

The Bulletin
Tilly Was a Lady—page 11
Wednesday, March 19, 1958
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered In Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
"I ordered a BIG one, wench not a middy!"


Bi A
SUCCESSFUL
WRITER!
If YOU have the urge to Write and a love
for expressing yourself in words, you can learn
to write Successful Short Stories, Articles,
Written Sketches, Badio Talks, Pars., Verse, etc.
“During the past six months my Acceptances
have-returned me over £200.”
“I am pleased to report further Successes since
Les. 10. This makes £53 in hand with more
to come.”
“I list hereunder my Acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.”
“My earnings from my Writing total almost
£70.”
“I very much enjoyed my Freelance Journalism
study and more than paid for the Course with
Articles accepted.”
“lturrng the Course I sold five Stories, which
more than paid for my fees/’
Stotts Correspondencetollege
100 Russ«*U St., Melbourne; 140 €astlereas:h
Nt., Sydney; 200 Adelaide St., Brisbane;
21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St.,
Perth.
——— CUT A\D MAIL THIS COTPOy -
To STOTT’S; Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
.AGE (S, 11.-653)
BOOKKUJiTKR. Box 2<m, 0.P.0., Sydney
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
HENRY HANDEL RICHARDSON
I have often thought that one of the
factors which may have hampered Aus-
tralian biographers in writing a worth-
while portrait of Henry Lawson, about
the lack of which Lyle Blair complained
in his foreword to the American selec-
tion of his prose and verse, is that
writers tend to think in terms of a
massive, full-scale biography, whereas,
in fact, Lawson’s life was so uneventful
and, in his later years, so distressing,
that a comparatively short book is all
that it requires. The writers who make
the best subjects for the biographer are
the giants like Dickens, Balzac or
Dostoievsky, who lived, loved, suffered
and wrote on the grand scale.
A case in point is Henry Handel
Richardson, who, if she wrote massively
enough, lived quietly; and Henry
Handel Richardson (Angus and
Robertson), edited by Edna Purdie and
Olga M. Roncoroni, written by
various hands and subtitled “Some
Personal Impressions,” tells us almost
everything we need to know about
her . . . except that we should have
to have more about her schooldays in
Melbourne and more about her father.
Nettie Palmer, in her own “Henry
Handel Richardson” (1950), has, in
fact, already written an admirably
compact biography and appreciation;
but it is as well to have such additional
details as the new book provides.
Thus from Matilda C. Washburn
Freund, who was H.H.R.’s friend and
fellow-student at Leipzig, there is her
passion for music; her eagerness and
half-masculine impatience of mind, so
urgent that she had to have a book to
read while her mother tried a new dress
on her; her formidable game of tennis,
“slashing and slamming at her
opponent with such deadly effect that
he or she was utterly discomfited”; the
youthful charm of moonlit nights when,
Henry Handel Richardson being
pushed along in a chair because she
couldn’t skate, they played on the
frozen river; and her quiet courtship
and marriage.
From Irene Stumpp, the “marvellous
cook” who was her housekeeper-
companion-secretary for many years,
there are some sparse but significant
details about her love for animals, her
awkwardness with strangers, her irrita-
tion with the game of badminton
because the shuttlecock would not fly
fast enough, her unwillingness to meet
admirers of her work, her determina-
tion not to disclose her sex and “the
series of interruptions which....
deprived us of several further books.”
From Walter Lindesay Neustatter,
her nephew, there are glimpses of her
kindness and sympathetic understand-
ing in his schoolboy embarrassments;
and also of the moods in which she
could be “very difficult to those she
lived with”—“At times she would goad
them on to a state of hysterical despera-
tion, and then calm them down with an
equal display of charm. She exercised
a curious fascination - particularly
over women —in this way.” Neustatter
provides one of the few moments of
humor in the book when he recalls
how one of her maids, when H.H.R.
called her a fool, haughtily replied,
“On the contrary, Mrs. Robertson, I
am not a fool —I read the ‘Times’.”
Arnold Gyde, a member of Heine-
mann’s publishing house, recalls how
it was Gerald Gould, critic on the
“Observer” and the “Daily News,” who
first set her on the high road to fame,
writing of “Ultima Thule” (after
Heinemann’s had turned it down and
her husband had it published at his
own expense), “The book is a master-
piece, worthy to rank with the greatest
and saddest masterpieces of our day.”
As a footnote, Gyde describes the
embarrassing occasion when he brought
Gould and H.H.R. together for lunch
and “Gould did not mention her work,
nor did she mention his reviews. My
great literary event was a fiasco.”
Edna Purdie mentions how pleased
the novelist was to be complimented
on having accurately described the song
of the blackbird in “The Way Home”
—the sort of detail a writer really likes
to be complimented on. She has a
little, though more is to come later
from Olga Roncoroni, on H.H.R.’s
stoicism during the war, when, near
Hastings and right in the track of
German bombers and doodle-bugs,
“She would not, she wrote more than
once, be compelled to move by Hitler.”
Eventually, so Olga Roncoroni tells us,
she did move a few miles away for a
week or two when daily and nightly
bombardments and alarms had stopped
her sleeping and working, but came
back to Hastings after the Germans
had dropped a batch of incendiaries
one night near her new establishment:
“If she was going to be killed, it might
as well happen at her home as any-
where else.”
Nettie Palmer contributes, two diary-
extracts from that lovely book “Four-
teen Years,” which for some unfathom-
able reason was published only in a
very limited edition by the Meaniin
Press in 1948: notes on the novelist’s
regular three hours of work each morn-
ing, her precautions against interrup-
tions and unwanted visitors, her
“tautness, like a coiled spring.” her
single-minded devotion to her art —
“Her impulse to create has all along
come from a passionate interest in
human relationships; perhaps a life-
long absorption in a few that
have touched her feeling and imagina-
tion.”
Morhard Bishop has a few personal
notes on her kindness to him as a young
writer and, chiefly, an appreciation of
her novels in which he compares “The
Fortunes of Richard Mahony” with
“Madame Bovary” and “Anna
Karenina” as “the complete and
('Continued on page 57)
LOVE AND MARRIAGE
Desire that all men have is all my love.
But the girl reads magazines with glossy
covers,
Denies the self-in-time that she might
have,
Declares that she needs love and never
lovers.
Habitual’s the thing I most despise.
But the girl talks home and marriage,
licensed lovers,
Denies the act, the play, the hope of prize,
Declares she needs what never love
discovers.
I should have known, those loving-days
ago,
The girl in her hid woman and not lover
For when we fell upon the floor to crow
She saw the carpet needed sweeping over
Though she said nothing then ; 1 had my
way.
But she it is who names the wedding-day.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.


I ■ i
:
4 *
H
mu m
m
mm lill
111
V"" <
••• •:• , ■ • •
mm
ill
■
m
■i.
There are few industries not served by DAVID BROWN products
BROWN
World’s largest Aero fall
Crushing Mill
From time to time the David Brown Group of Companies
carry out work for projects which rank as the biggest of
their kind. The most recent example was the produc-
tion, by the Jackson Division of David Brown Industries
Limited, England, of a cast steel spur gear 25 ft. 10 ins.
diameter and weighing nearly 25 tons. The purpose
of this giant is to drive the largest Aerofall Ball Mill yet made. The mill is being installed in
Southern Rhodesia, where it will be employed at the Sinoia copper mine in breaking copper ore.
When it comes to farm mechanisation, David Brown is in the forefront all of the time. One of the largest tractor
and implement manufacturers, David Brown, with its teams of skilled specialist engineers, has a notable record
of initiative and achievement that must be hard to match anywhere in the world. Power Lift—6-speed Gear Box—
2-speed P.T.O. and TCU (Traction Control Unit) are some of the many firsts which have kept David Brown out in
front. When it comes to modern farming the David Brown concept is as up-to-date as to-morrow’s dawn.
The range includes 18 wheeled and crawler models from 14 to 50 h.p., and over 60 matched implements. You
name the job—David Brown will do it.
DAVID
and the
MO/CON WORM REDUCERS
TURBINE GEAR UMTS
HELICAL SINGLE REDUCING OR INCREASING GEAR UNITS
HELICAL DOUBLE OR TRIFLE REDUCING GEAR UNITS
ROLLING MILL. MINE WINDING, TUBE MILL AND
HAULAGE GEAR DRIVES
lOOOMOTIVE. RAILCAR AND
TRAMCAR AXLE UNITS
MARINE DRIVES
SPIRAL BEVEL UNITS
AUTOMOBILE AND COMMERCIAL VEHICLE GEARBOXES
PATENTED WORM GEARS
GEARS OF ALL TYPES
ROLOID GEAR PUMPS
COVENTRY GEARED MOTORS
KEIGHLEY STOCK SPUR GEARS
PROFILE GROUND HOBS AND GEAR GENERATING CUTTERS
PATENTED FLOATING REAMERS
COVrNf^
. , ; ’■ .
TRACTOR rftYts4GN
WtLIHAM HIJupfeRJUUO
THE DAVID BROWN GROUP OF COMPANIES
HARR (SON. McG«ttGQ* '■* GUEST
LEIGH. LANCS
. : -
5 6 FIXTURES
6iAR TESTING EQUIPMENT
HYDRAX PRODUCTION GEAR HOBBING MACHINE
GEAR SHAVING MACHINES
RELIEVING LATHE
ALLOY AND CARBON STEEL CASTINGS
AIRCRAFT STEEL CASTINGS
AIRCRAFT QUALITY STEEL CASTINGS
PRECISION CASTINGS
TAURUS BRONZE CASTINGS
HEAVY DUTY GEARS
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL TRACTORS
' INDUSTRIAL AND MARINE ENGINES
FARMING IMPLEMENTS
ASTON MARTIN CARS
LAGONDA CARS
DB21.FP
imnnro
m
KHU(HUI<
tm
DAVID BROWN (A/ASIA) PTY. LIMITED
Cnr. Derby and Wet he rill Streets, Lidcombe, N.S.W.
Australian associate of the world-famous DAVID BROWN GROUP OF COMPANIES


The Bulletin
Wednesday, March 19,1958
Vol. 79—No. 4075
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE : 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westraha : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
PRESSURES ON THE NORTH
THE meeting of Seato in Manila has
had better publicity than usual, partly
because the Communists have been
concentrating more intensely on the
East and because many South-east
Asian countries are becoming nervous
about their future economic and
political fates.
Some are urging that the United
States should “get alongside India” in
the same way that Russia has got
alongside China; in other words, that it
should guide India from within
through aid and the provision of
propaganda - facilities. Recently the
United States has given India a sub-
stantial loan for exchange purposes,
and it is now ready, according to Mr.
Dulles, to pour money in large
quantities into the Seato organisation
both for defence and for economic
purposes, and for the training of skilled
workers.
The proceedings at the Seato con-
ference, however, show undercurrents
of dissent from the former policy, which
was to keep Britain out of the East
Asian area as far as possible, and there
has been a strong tendency towards
the global Western policy, which is
the only policy which can deal with
international Communism, a creed
which is global in both its aims and
its strategy, and the only one in which
action so far has been unified with
common purpose and common
discipline among its backers.
The Seato conference was preceded
by several events which have given
South-east Asia cause for fear. One
was the near-collapse of India’s
finances. Another was the disintegra-
tion of Indonesian unity, which cannot
be restored even by suppression of the
Sumatran and Celebes rebels.
Indonesia must for long remain a
banner waving wildly in the gales of
religious and political hates and full
of holes through which Communist
currents of thought and action freely
penetrate.
What the Communists are doing in
the midst of the noisy welter only the
Communists know.
Another event was the Conference
of the Economic Commission for Asia
and the Far East at Kuala Lumpur
opening on March 5, which gave
South-east Asian countries a chance to
see where they were heading.
The thesis prepared by a special
staff to form the basis of discussion
at this meeting showed that the share
of world exports of the non-industrial
countries of Asia —which category
excludes only Japan—has declined from
10.7 per cent, in 1950 to under 7 per
cent, last year. The aggregate trade-
deficit of these countries —including
Japan—has grown from £A335 million
in 1955 to £AB94 million last year.
The trend seems to be permanent
and continuing, since industrial
countries which used to import are
becoming self-supporting in many key
lines through their own production,
synthetic or otherwise. This is particu-
larly so in rubber and the container-
fabrics such as jute, which used to be
staple exports of particular countries.
The tendency has spread for other
reasons as far afield as Egypt, which
has found that Soviet Union markets,
satellite and otherwise, provide the
wrong kind of barter and too little of it.
Egypt therefore revalued its currency
to deflate its value externally by
virtually 23 per cent. —the exporter will
be allowed to sell hard currency to the
Bank of Egypt at a 30 per cent,
premium on the Egyptian pound, which
has been slightly over par with sterling.
At the Ecafe conference it was
pointed-out that though food-produc-
tion in these Eastern countries was
slowly rising, it was not keeping pace
with population-increase, which is in
the nature of “an explosion which
could have disastrous results.” It seems
to be a startling fact that by 1980 the
area covered by the operations of the
commission—which technically includes
China —will have a population as large
as that of the whole world today.
By the year 2000 China and India
alone will reach this figure. Yet neither
of these great countries, with all their
potential, much less some of the other
wilting tropical national entities, seems
to have the slightest chance of keeping
up with food-needs or even keeping at
the present ratio between needs and
supply. Even in Japan the situation
is no brighter.
For all the tremendous dynamism
of that country and its high standard of
inventive ability and technical genius
and industrialisation, it is haunted by
the problem of the trade-balance. By
developing to its highest potential
Japan must spend too much on foreign
materials, and if it buys too little
abroad its standards of living are
kept down and the result is either
“unemployment or underemployment.”
Actually, Japan was responsible last
year for half the external trade-deficit
of the Ecafe region.
All these countries, and particularly
the newer ones which have recently
gained their “freedom,” are suffering
from the loss of know-how and techni-
cal skill due to the retirement of
advanced European leadership. All
are faced with the need for domestic,
and particularly foreign, capital—the
latter very shy when in private hands —
for development. U.N. (which, as
usual, in practical matters seems to
mean U.S.) is doing a lot of surveying,
particularly in relation to Indo-China
and the Mekong River development-
scheme.
The facts are inclined to bring about
a closer adherence to Seato, seeing that
it seems to promise to become a suction-
channel for cash from the U.S.A. in a
large way and from other countries,
including Australia, in a smaller way.
For this country the problems
associated with East Asia are becoming
increasingly acute and call for more
practical long-term thinking about
what may happen as the outward
pressures of increasingly hungry popu-
lations make themselves felt against the
outer crust of this thinly populated
continent with its screening islands.
The inevitable corollary to overcrowd-
ing in Asia will be enforced emigration,
even from the countries racially averse
to movement out of immemorial
environments.
The emptier any area along the outer
fringes of Asia, the more it will be in
danger. The Commonwealth may live
to rue the day when it chose progress
via the luxury standard-of-living for
an artificially limited population.
Population and development, large-
scale farming and production of
materials for export at a cost-level
suitable to Asian markets, should be
an ideal to aim at. Regionally, also,
extension of this policy along with the
defence-policy of Australia to the
fringe of outlying islands round the
continent should be part of Australian
long-distance thinking.
It seems time that the Solomons and
Hebrides and perhaps Fiji were
embraced within the area of Australian
territory, as they were, indeed, in the
first days of Australian settlement.
Otherwise, when population-pressures
to the north dictate it, there may be
a new Indonesia in the strategic islands
which screen the eastern Australian
coast with all the dangers that such a
development would imply.
The matter should be taken up with
the British Government, which can do
little for the development of these
regions and can have little use for
them now, anyway.


"GLORY, GLORY, HALLELUJAH!"
[Tune: “John Brown’s Body”]


PLAIN ENGLISH
Parliamentary Paradox
If anything could advertise the imper-
fections of the Federal legislative system
it is the goings-on in Canberra oyer the
passage of the banking bills, which are
in line with public opinion and with the
mandate which the Government has
held for nearly a decade since the
crushing and sustained defeat of Laboi at
the polls on the bank issue in December,
1949.
Last year the bills were rejected in
the Senate only with the help of a Labor
Senator who was brought from his sick-
bed to the Chamber in order to cast
the deciding vote.
Labor, of course, professes scorn for
upper Houses. It is its basic theory
that decisions should be made by a lower
House as the people’s House, and that if
an upper House exists it should simply
be an instrument of registration. It does
its best when in power to assure that this
will be the case, whether it is dealing
with nominee or elective bodies. In
Canberra, thanks to the ingenuity of
Dr. Evatt, it bequeathed to the new
Administration a Senate so composed
that it would always leave the Govern-
ment with the narrowest of majorities
and with no margin to rely upon in case
of sickness. In other words, Dr. Evatt
and his friends, seeing defeat
approaching, built a device to obstruct
the Government and the will of the
people permanently, which they could
manipulate while in Opposition.
Why the Government has not corrected
this position is something of a mystery.
The Labor Senate bloc, of course, is
not its own master. Its members form
a minority in caucus, and even if every
Senator voted in caucus not to take
a certain course they would be bound to
vote as the majority—that is, the
members of caucus in the lower House —
decided. Otherwise they would run the
risk of being individually cast out of
the Labor party and their several seats.
A majority of Parliament —that is, a
majority consisting, of Government mem-
bers in the two .Houses —are in favor
of the banking bills. But what is sound
theory inside the caucus-room is the
reverse in the Legislature itself, even
though caucus policy is opposed to
public opinion and election-mandates,
and the legislative majority as a whole
is not.
The Government is hinting at an early
election if the bills are rejected, and
the Labor Opposition is doing its utmost
to give them the excuse (or at least
making a pretence of it), and in the
process threatening to blot-out Senator
Byrne and two of his colleagues who
dare to exercise their rights as citizens
and do their ordinary duty as Parlia-
mentarians by asking an opportunity to
debate and vote on bills some of which
they seem personally inclined to favor,
whatever the tyrannous orders of caucus.
Pakistan Celebrates
Celebrating its third year as a Republic
on Sunday, March 23, Pakistan is still to
be found as one of the more reliable
republican member-countries of the
Commonwealth. By comparison with
India, it has been strongly anti-
communist.
After independence was granted to the
Indian sub-continent in 1947, Pakistan
became a member of the Commonwealth
as a Dominion, which meant that, like
Australia, New Zealand, Canada and
South Africa, Pakistan acknowledged the
Queen as its sovereign, and a Governor-
General was appointed from the United
Kingdom.
Popular opinion in Pakistan was
against Dominion status, and in 1955, at
a Prime Ministers’ Conference in London,
a declaration was issued confirming the
continued membership of Pakistan in the
Commonwealth, but recognising the fact
that it had decided to become a Republic.
One of the early problems of the
Republic was to determine the nature of
elections. East Pakistan, where Hindus
predominated, favored joint electorate ;
West Pakistan, with few non-Muslims,
favored separate electorate. In April,
1957, a single electorate was established
throughout the community.
A continuing problem in Pakistan is
the Kashmir issue, which is an open sore
between Pakistan and India. The
expressed sympathy of most of the
English-speaking world, as well as the
Muslim world, on the Kashmir issue, has
been for Pakistan, but recently there has
been an outcry from Karachi claiming
British arms are being supplied to India,
and casting doubts on the continuing
U.S. support of Pakistan in its objective
of putting the future of Kashmir to a
plebiscite by its inhabitants.
It will be a great day to celebrate in
Pakistan and elsewhere when the
Kashmiris are enabled, through U.N. or
otherwise, to vote on the question of
which country they wish to ally with.
Seato-Baghdad-Nato
The most hopeful feature about Seato
is that it has now become a major
organisation and that it is in process of
bringing itself to the point of integration
with the rest of the world-defence
organisation.
The original conception of the major
partner in the body seemed to be that
it would be a prototype of the Organisa-
tion of American States, in which all the
21 States are joined on a “basis of
absolute equality,” whether Ecuador and
Haiti or the United States —but all seem
to be always of the “absolute” opinion
of Washington.
It was made quite clear at first that
Britain was a “colonial” power which was
not wanted. At the same time, it was
also soon clear that the U.S.A. was not
keen to be in the established Western
System of the Middle East because
Washington did not want to be com-
mitted in any way which would preclude
it from securing control of Western
policies in that region, when the time
came, without making a breach with the
British and French too obvious.
The Suez incident produced that
opportunity. Mr. Dulles assumed con-
trol of Western policies in the area and
then became ready to take a part of the
responsibility of the Baghdad Pact under
the new Eisenhower doctrine.
The Seato move is the natural sequ-
ence to the newer developments. Now
that Washington feels that it controls
the Asian policies of the Western world
it is prepared to make the defence
organisation—both civil and military-
global, as it should have been made
years ago.
In theory it is an excellent and vital
move, but it will be necessary for the
ingredient nations to be sure that the
global organisation, Seato-Baghdad-
Nato, is for the purpose of resisting the
onslaught of world-Communism, and
not as an instrument of the submerged
war which is in progress globally —as
shown by the disturbances which are its
manifestations —in the Middle East,
Indonesia and North Africa between the
United States and the Russian bloc for
the control of the world’s oil-supply.
This battle is being supplemented by
sideswipes from one or other of the com-
batants against their own allies. One of
these was the limit on import of Pacific
oil from Canada about which the
Canadian Government has recently
complained to the Americans.
A most vital need for the British Com-
monwealth is that it should develop its
own oil-supplies and see that no other
Powers secure a clutch on them, whether
they be in Canada or in Borneo.
The Kuriles
[From J. E. Webb]
From The Bulletin (12/3/’58):
The surrender of the Kurile Islands to
the U.S.S.R. was one of the maddest of
the many mad mistakes made by the
United States Government.
From Churchill’s History: —
In the most rigid secrecy Stalin informed
Roosevelt myself [at Yalta] of the
Soviet Government’s willingness to enter
the war against Japan two or three months
after Germany’s surrender. The conditions
....restoration of the Russian rights lost
in the year 1904, viz: recovery of southern
Sakhalin and the islands adjacent; inter-
nationalisation of Dairen, with safeguards
for the pre-eminent ' interests of the
U.S.S.R.; restoration of the lease of Port
Arthur as a Soviet naval base; joint
operation by a Soviet-Chinese [now Red
Chinese] company of the Chinese Eastern
railway and the South Manchurian rail-
way, providing an outlet to Dairen (the
pre-eminent interests of the U.S.S.R. to be
safeguarded); acquisition by the U.S.S.R.
of the Kurile Islands... .We all three
[Stalin, Churchill and Roosevelt] agreed
to see that the Soviet claims were fulfilled
without question following the defeat of
Japan.... I signed on behalf of the
British Government.
Inasmuch as Churchill was then in
robust health, while Roosevelt, as noted
in the History, looked “frail and ill” —
he died a couple of months later—
Churchill’s responsibility was greater
than the President’s.
Another extract from his History: —
In a private talk with Stalin, I asked


him about Russian wishes in the Far
East. He said that they wanted a naval
base, such as Port Arthur. I replied that
we would welcome the appearance of
Russian ships in the Pacific.
They are, of course, there now [“The
Soviet Union has the largest submarine
fleet in history”—Admiral Barbey, who
commanded U.S. Amphibious Forces in
the South-west Pacific] ; and some of
them are suspected of having nosed
about the Queensland and British
Columbia coasts.
Moomba Grows
So spectacular has been the success of
this year’s Moomba (“Let’s Get Together
and Have Fun”) carnival in Melbourne
that the protagonists already are discuss-
ing the possibility of making it into a
festival of world standing, or, indeed,
renown.
Not many short of 500,000 turned up
to see the Moomba parade on Labor
Day ; a wonderful display of 44 mostly
eye-opening floats, and, according to
police estimates, which are often near
the mark, this was more than were in the
streets for the arrival of the Queen and
Prince Philip.
Moomba’s originators are businessmen
who have banded together as the City
Development Association, other business-
men or businesses, and the City Council
and State Government, with some hearty
cheers from Sir Dallas Brooks’s
Government House.
The businessmen believe there are
economic advantages in bringing free-
spending tourists to the city and in dis-
pelling the inter-State belief (despite 6
p.m. closing) that Melbourne is not a
pleasant place to visit.
The time has been well chosen. March,
the early autumn, is usually bright, warm
and settled and includes the V.R.C.
Newmarket-Australian Cup and other
meetings, as well as the Henley carnival
on the Yarra. (It is also a between-
season period in which trade in some
industries would normally be slack, or
slacker than it would be without
Moomba.)
In the 10 days the citizens were
offered, in addition to the parade and the
racing’ at Flemington, a floral festival, an
historical exhibition, an arts-and-crafts
exhibition, the Australian Industries
Fair, varied athletic contests (chiefly of
minor sports that usually miss notice),
madrigals, open-air theatre, showboats
on the Yarra (with, inevitably, The
Moomba Queen), the annual big art show
in the Fitzroy Gardens, and the first
amphibious production in Australia of
“Hiawatha,” in the Olympic Pool by the
National Theatre, the Victorian
Symphony Orchestra and many others.
There is no doubt Moomba has
brought out a sense of fun and revelry,
all in quite good middle-class taste ; much
°f it is free, and gives some sections of
the community the chance to show all of
it what they can do ; and even the arts
are being edged, a little less timorously
each year, into the open.
To those who are not so old it is a
glowing reminder of the gay, well-to-do
and complacent Melbourne that seemed
to end with the depression.
Queensland Electoral
Reform
Although it has been in power for more
than seven months, the Nicklin Govern-
ment doesn’t appear to be in any hurry
to alter the electoral boundaries and
procedures which helped to keep it out
of office for nearly a quarter of a
century.
A combination of first-past-the-post
voting, long ago abandoned by every
other State and by the Federal authori-
ties, and a lopsided zoning system which,
before the split last year, ensured that
Labor would win 19 or 20 out of 23
seats in the northern and western zones,
had virtually given Labor a monopoly of
the Treasury benches, although Queens-
land consistently returned a majority of
Liberal and Country-party members to
both Houses in the Federal Parliament.
Last week Mr. Nicklin made a leisurely
move and announced that before the end
of the year he would introduce a bill to
allow the appointment of an Electoral
Commission to redistribute the electoral
boundaries for the 1960 election. Before
that happens the Country-Liberal Parlia-
mentary committee will discuss terms of
reference for the commission. Discus-
sions will include the number of
members ; whether or not to retain the
zoning system, and, if so, what quotas
should apply ; factors to be considered in
determining boundaries.
The question of whether preferential
voting should be restored and whether a
switch should be made from State to
Federal rolls will be gone into later.
First-past-the-post was reintroduced by
Labor at a time when the anti-Labor
parties were far less united than they are
now. It worked effectively for Labor
—though it forced the Opposition parties
into closer unity—until the expulsion of
ex-Premier Gair and the formation of
the Q.L.P. Then it was a big factor in
throwing Labor out of office.
It may be that the Nicklin Govern-
ment feels that with a more equitable
redistribution there will be no need to
scrap first-past-the-post. But to retain it
would be most unwise. It would look
like an attempt to take advantage of the
Labor split, and the temporary advantage
that might be gained would not be worth
sacrificing the chance to give the electors
a chance of a more equitable system. A
change to a joint Federal-State electoral
roll —as used in every other State —would
also do much to restore confidence in the
Queensland electoral system.
Defending Ourselves
[From R.R.D.]
The other afternoon I was talking to a
soldier down the Old Pioneers’ Track
which leads south from Moss Vale to
the Kangaroo River (N.S.W.).
My companion was a typical Digger,
and we stood in a steady downpour of
rain and over our ankles in mud. Fight-
ing weather, Tight enough. The mud
sent my thoughts back to New Guinea
and then to Flanders in an earlier war.
As I looked at this soldier’s face it
struck me that his forebear might well
have been one of the bowmen at Agin-
court. So King Harry’s words suddenly
seemed apposite:
Our gayness and our gilt are all besmirch’d
With rainy marching in the painful field;
There’s not a piece of feather in our host—
Good argument, I hope, we will not fly—
But, by the mass, our hearts are in the
trim.
How did that tag start? I couldn’t
remember until I came back and turned
up my Shakspeare. There it was: “We
are but warriors for the working-day.”
I thought how true that line was of the
First and Second A.1.F., and of the
glorious tradition that they had left from
Anzac onwards. And there lay the
difference; for the soldier to whom
I had talked was a private of the 2nd
Royal Australian Regiment, heir to this
tradition, but not, like myself, a “warrior
for the working-day.” He was a regular
soldier, a member of the Ist Infantry
Brigade Group, the Field Force.
Therefore there was something
remarkable about this occasion. For the
first time in history, an Australian regular
formation is training in our own country.
The newspapers have given some
publicity to this brigade, although it is to
be regretted that the main impact on the
general public has so far been negative.
It is always easy to decry any effort made
on defence, because this is an unpopular
item of expenditure and because the
armed forces, necessarily autocrats, run
against the grain of our national custom.
A vague grievance growing from
some unfortunate war-time experience
behind the line or from arrogant treat-
ment when a National Serviceman, is apt
to pour vitriol into the ink of the most
conscientious reporter. Political issues
also enter the lists.
Let us remember, however, that we
face a possible onslaught savager than
any we have yet imagined. No longer is
it a question of raising Imperial Forces
which will help the Mother Country.
Indeed, within the lifetime of many of us,
it may become a question of defending
our own vast homeland against the
advance of the Red Claw that menaces us.
The maintenance of 4000 regular
soldiers is not a large price to pay as
insurance against this risk. It would be
better if we had /o/Ty-thousand.
But my private of the 2nd Royal Aus-
tralian Regiment taught me more. His
bearing told me that he was a good
fighting-man, and I noted the way his
commanding-officer handled the battalion.
Knowing the jungle and having studied
the mobile warfare of Mao Tse-tung, I
am convinced that our own hard fists
can deal the right counter.
But there must be an arm behind the
fist to drive it into its mark. The citizens
of Australia are that arm.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
AT the funeral of a jarrah-jerker in
the sou’-west of W.A., the amateur
pall-bearers, on reaching the graveside,
put the casket down feet-west. The
parson politely asked them to reverse
the coffin. A stock-still silence ; then a
whispered “End-for-end him” explained
the rev.’s request.—“V.M.”
* * *
“Hamish”: I’d just finished a spell of
jury-service, in the course of which I was
“locked-up” for 11 days on the one case.
Mrs. H. was passing the Supreme Court,
and our small son, in the voice reserved
by little boys for such occasions,
announced, “Look, Mummy, that’s the
place where the Judge locked Daddy up!”
Heads turned to stare at my wife, who,
feeling as a real jailbird’s wife must,
could only give a sickly grin and move on.
+J*
“Bird”: Read of a plan to replace tea-
leaves with tea-crystals. To- make a cup
of tea one would put crystals in the cup
and pour boiling water over them. If this
plan crystallises, what will happen to all
the teapots? I suppose the more precious
ones will be reverently laid behind
glass, but the ordinary models will have
a variety of uses. Some will lie around
and collect stray objects in kitchens,
others will play their part in novelty
flower-arrangements and many will end
iheir days with a spout-sprouting
flourish of indoor plants.
♦♦♦ *t* *l*
“Bo”: Currency-revaluation can make
a whale of a difference to the impact of
a drama. In “Nana,” the French film-
version of the Zola novel, the theatre-
manager complains to a patron of both
the arts and Nana that his takings for
the night’s performance have seriously
declined —'“down one-thousand francs.”
That might have represented something
more than chicken-fodder when Zola
wrote the story last century. At present
rate of exchange, the 1000 “onks” is
worth Australian 21s. 6d.
*t* ❖ ♦♦♦
“North Esk”: The stencilled outline
of a wineglass on the side of a large case
being unloaded had me puzzled. “Oh,
that,” said a friend, “picture-language!
Means ‘This Side Up.’ Much simpler
than printing the words; even the
fellow that can’t read understands it! ”
A A A
V V V
“Tame”: Reported case of an
American who wrote a book about Aus-
tralia after four days in the country is no
record. In 1929 an American journalist
went ashore in Auckland around 4 p.ra.
After a hectic rush to the tourist-agencies
he caught a train for Wellington at 7.10
p.m. Travelling through the night, he
reached Wellington at 9 a.m. next morning
and by 2 p.m. was aboard a Sydney-
bound steamer. In due course he
produced a book about New Zealand.
*i* *> ❖
“Ardoyne”: As “P.T.” observes (B.
4/3/’5B), “king-size” is overworked, but
the advertising boys will soon think-up
something to surpass it: I’m surprised
that nobody yet is trying to sell me
“emperor-size” cigars or “president-size”
pills.
<s•
“Dorian”: When the rector announced
the first hymn and I started to play the
organ, I couldn’t understand why my feet
persisted in hitting two pedal-notes at
once. Glancing down, I found I’d for-
gotten to change my street-shoes for
organ-playing dancing-pumps. I waited
till the choir stood to sing an anthem,
then noiselessly crept, out to the vestry to
change my shoes. And the anthem they
were singing was “Steal Away!”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Victor”: I’ve been unable to identify
the person or persons responsible for
painting on my Ford Model-A the sign:
Exchange for Two Laying Fowls. I
suspect equally the window-artists at the
nearby butcher’s, fruiterer’s and grocer’s.
I find myself studying the weekend
specials displayed on the several windows,
seeking some clue from their calligraphy.
It’s getting me down.
❖ >+♦
f\UR grandson reported that a cat was
lying “dead drunk” on the adjoining
allotment. We found the fummy was
dead, all right; an empty beer-bottle
alongside the body gave color to the boy’s
report.—“Mullbong.”
“You MOVED!”
LOST MEMORY
The fact, the name, the event,
Each in his cosy home
Lies snug —a whistle, a snap of the
fingers,
And forth he will come
Tail-wagging, eager to serve me,
To meet my slightest need
He will hasten, hurry, bustle to greet me,
True friend indeed.
What’s this ? Where are you ? I want
you.
Dammit, man, can’t you hear me ?
A wary eye peeps from a secret doorway
Unwilling, I fear me,
To obey my summons, my order,
He slinks to the rear of his den ;
I will stalk, I will softly creep to his
capture,
Seize him, and then
Thrust him in prison, in irons,
Nail him for good,
No more skulking, no shirking, no hiding
In swamp or in wood;
But the hunting is hard, is long,
And when needed most
The slave may run free for ever and ever
Lost, lost, lost.
N.Z.
ARNOLD WALL.


CAN’T see why Liberace should pro-
nounce his name “Liberarchy.”
Haven’t heard the girls admiring his
farchy or that he plays the piano at a
very fast parchy or even whether his
trousers are held up by brarchies or if his
underpants are trimmed with larchy.
Don’t know if he plays cards well or
trumps his partner’s archy. Perhaps while
in Melbourne he may go out to Fleming-
ton to see the rarchies. And, despite his
little upset over “My Fair Lady,” 1 hope
he’ll have the grarchy to say he has
found Australia a nice plarchy. —
“Doric.”
♦J« tj*
“J.T.”: First thing 1 heard on waking
the other morning was the voice of the
man next door saying: “Don’t be so
ridiculous, son. It’s only my pockets
your mother goes through.”
❖
“Pender”: This yo-yo craze has cer-
tainly got a lot of kids on a string!
Techniques have changed, too, since we
youngsters of the early 1930’s manipu-
lated them: nowadays kids like to wiggle
a cane hoop around their body or ride a
bike at the same time.
* ♦>
“Maitri”: A Sunday newspaper reports
the recording for the first time of songs
and other music written and composed
by Henry VIII, as well as a song thought-
up by Anne Boleyn entitled appropriately,
“Death, Rock Me Asleep.” Though the
music may have just been recorded, it is
certainly not unknown to concertgoers:
I first heard Anne Boleyn’s song in
Sydney over 30 years ago. Two other
royal composers who couldn’t keep their
heads were Charles I and Marie
Antoinette. Both composed songs of
real beauty and merit; a few years ago
they could be bought at most good music-
shops.
<* ♦> <*
“Ceg”: Two Diggers, strolling round
London on leave during the First World
War, noticed a woman with smalt child in
a pusher making ineffectual attempts to
cross a very busy road. One of the
Diggers stepped off the footpath, held up
his hand in true police-fashion and
brought the stream of traffic to a stand-
still. His mate then picked up the woman,
tucked her under one arm and, taking a
firm grip of the pusher with infant,
ferried them across. Depositing the lady
on the opposite footpath, he was promptly
rewarded with a stinging step on the
face. He called to his mate to stop the
traffic again), put the operation into
reverse, and dumped woman, infant and
pusher back at their starting-point.
❖ ❖ *
“Sack”: A tram-stop means that no
matter how packed a tram is it will always
stop and, defying all theories of cubic
content, pick up another passenger.
Nothing is more exasperating than to
wait twenty minutes at a bus-stop and
have the vehicle shoot past because in the
conductor’s opinion it is full enough. But
it has a funny side—the inside, looking
out. Our bus sailed through a stop leav-
ing a bewildered damsel trying to play-
back the conductor’s shouted: “ 'Zntrther
SEjET d -"« 1 A . Pj“ arc ‘ b , eh L nd , h T
P. . ~ l! V 10 < ,lr . c e i
Behmd, Several non-stops later we
marooned a tough-looking young bloke
whose gestures indicated the extent of
. ls ? ra ' poster on the picture-theatre
“if. h S*f? UDd announced: • the
j r is
♦> * *j,
“Sunray” : After years of providing the
growing child with scientifically-planned
toys, the latest idea in kindergarten circles
is to provide children with “junk.” Tins,
cardboard, cotton - reels, typewriter-
spools, buttons, anything at all. And
the kids? They love it. A box and four
typewriter-spools, for wheels make a
wagon ; cotton-reels strung together make
a pull-along toy ; cardboard and paste
can produce almost anything. Reminds
me of my mother, sniffing about the
number of toys possessed by one of her
grand-children. “You kids,” she said,
“were happy enough with a few pebbles
or buttons in a cocoa-tin.”
<* <♦
“Cocuswood”: Talking of Melba’s
recording-records (B. 29/1/’5B), what
about the sheet-music sales of her prince
©f flautists, John Lemmone? The first
shipment of “Dainty Dance” to the U S.
was 50,000 copies, and the repeat nearly
as big. Their flute- and voice-recordings
of around 1910 have never been equalled,
but John said in 1923 that the matrices of
their Philadelphia recordings of 1910 had
“long since worn out.”
♦> ❖
“Narumee”: Our tour-bus arrived in
the historic town, and we all clambered
out, primed by the driver as to what to
notice—gardens, lookout-tower, museum,
art-gallery, monuments, conservatory,
etc. The well-dressed woman with note-
book and steely eye set off by herself,
and was stopped by the driver: “That’s
the wrong way for the Lookout, Lady.”
"I’m not interested in Lookouts,” she
told him. “I’m off to the butcher’s. I’ve
checked meat prices every stop we’ve
made ; believe me, my Butch back home’s
going to get a piece of my mind for the
way he sticks up the price of chops!”
“Maitri”: The old lady had joined a
sect which didn’t believe in taking life,
and in the train, after a long chase, she
isolated a flea which had been biting her.
Imprisoning it in a corner of her handker-
chief, she took it home and gave it
lodgings in the thick coat of her
Pomeranian.
* &
“Bo”: If at six a.m. the sound is heard
of hedge-shears being wielded or stubborn
clods being reduced by a mattock to a
fine tilth, there need but be one guess as
to the menage from which they issue.
No sooner is he home than he hops into
his old clobber* and digs* mows, clips,
plants or pulls-up till darkness beats him.
Then he repairs to his garage, where he
bashes, saws, paints, nails, screws, joins
and otherwise works off the rest of his


restless energy. The other day he sank
a four-inch-square hardwood post into
his front lawn, creosoted, and set deep in
concrete. To it he screwed a combined
house-number plate and scene-in-
silhouette made of black-painted wrought-
iron. The scene depicted a Mexican in
ten-gallon sombrero, leaning against a
palm-tree, his chin on his chest, snoozing!
* *
“XC”: When my cousin, a quiet and
competent driver with a twenty-years’
accident-free record, returned after half-
an-hour’s absence to her brand-new car
parked in the shopping area she found one
“Just as a matter of interest, I always make a note of the date in my diary.”
of the front mudguards well and truly
smashed in and there was no sign of the
culprit. As if this wasn’t enough, a boy
about six came over, surveyed the damage
critically, looked straight at her and hissed
with all the venom possible in such a
little mite: “Woman driver!”
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ **♦
“M’Lou”: The crowded plane on a
flight from Broken Hill to Adelaide
pitched badly in rough air-currents, and
soon most passengers reached for brown-
paper bags. A sozzled gent, from Broken
Hill studied those bags owlishly for
some minutes, then called to the air-
hostess for a pie. I m sorry, sir, said
she, “but we have no pies.” “No pies?”
He sounded peeved. “Then what are all
those other mugs eatin’?”
A A
“Ville”: Second religious convention
within a year has descended on our
town: men natty in full suits, despite
the heat, important brief-cases beneath
the arm ; women attractively attired in
the latest frills. Old Charlie mused over
his pot as a quartet of the do-gooders
headed past the corner-pub. “Follering
th’ footsteps of th’ Lord—shouldn’t have
no trouble overtakin’ ’em neither, not in
all them flash sedans!”
♦♦♦ *** ♦♦♦
“Bicky”: Getting in early! Advertise-
ment by Melbourne car-dealer: “When
the Time Comes, the Best Spaceships
Will Be at Bloggs’s Motors.”
•$»
“T.W.”: On her end-of-term English
paper our fourth-grader was asked to
make a list of ten proverbs. “I couldn’t
think of the last one, so 1 just switched
the first around a bit,” she informed us.
The first turned out to have been “I
growled because I had no shoes, until I
met a man who had no feet.” “How did
you manage to change that?” her mother
asked nervously. “‘I growled because
I had no new fur coat, until I met a
woman who had no old one.’ ” Her
report shows top marks for English and
conduct that leaves much to be desired.
* *
“Kenyas”: There are those who
reckon music-teachers should be regis-
tered. I had a new pupil from a country
district (she’d had no tuition before) who
came to Sydney for a weekly lesson. After
her third visit, I was horrified to hear that
she was passing-on, at a price, to a dozen
or so students in her home-town, what
she picked-up from me every week.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ***
“Spec.”: Cove next door, off work for
last three years on the invalid-pension,
State-aid and sundry handouts and now
capable of doing his job, finds this would
cost him £3 a week, difference between
the succor and his wage as unskilled
laborer. As pensions, etc., are neatly
cut-out by his hire-purchase repayments,
he is in the unusual position of being
unable to afford to go to work.
THE SECRET INGREDIENT
“No woman is ever able to impress another
woman unless she is able to wear her clothes
with an air of virtuosity.” —French couturier
Pierre Balmain.
You may make a big impression
On a man — that’s easy money !
Simply flaunting the possession
Of sable, mink or bunny,
A dream-gown, or sartorial mon-
strosity ;
But you’ll never “raise the ante"
With your own sex if it’s patent
You’re too much the dilettante.
You can even make it blatant,
But a “must” is, wear an air of
virtuosity !
It is really not your flgger
That eventually matters;
She who’s shaped like billiard-jigger
Might same stunning damsel shatter
When she’s dressed, because of subtle
sinuosity ;
If of deep humiliations
You’d escape from being the victim,
’Mong your sisters, concentration’s
Needed on this sageful dictum :
Wear your clobber with an air of
virtuosity !
Be like Kreisler with his fiddle !
Horowitz bashing his planner!
No pale rum-te-tum-te-tiddle —
Do it all in top-dog manner;
Bust all the strings, and scorn not full
pomposity !
To sartorial perfection
You can never be the claimant
( Though you own a rare collection
Of incomparable raiment)
If you lack that vital air of
virtuosity.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


TILLY WAS A LADY
By JOHN HETHERINGTON
IT was a rather shabby
chateau of grey weathered
stone, but it looked strong
enough to endure for ever.
It stood back from a by-road,
behind high walls, lonely and
austere amid Normandy's
farmlands. We thought it
would be a good place to eat
lunch on that sunny June day
of 1944, and we drove under
the massive archway into the
courtyard.
Ducks and ducklings glided
on the surface of a pond in a
corner of the courtyard, and a
rakish brown retriever-dog,
chained under a wagon, set up
a furious barking the moment
he sighted us. His voice echoed
back from the walls, but no-
body came out of the chateau
to see what was to do. A mile
away British tanks were skirm-
ishing toward the small town
of Tilly-sur-Seulles, which was
still held by the Germans. We
had been talking with the tank
men half-an-hour earlier, but
there was nothing here to
remind Alan Moorehead and
myself or our conducting-
officer, Philip Dunn, that the
invasion of Western Europe
was only a few weeks old, and
that we were in the Normandy
bridgehead.
We climbed out of the jeep
and stood looking at the
chateau. It had a forlorn air,
like any deserted house. Most
of the windows were broken,
and their slatted wooden
shutters swung open, blowing
in the wind.
We went up and hammered
at the great iron-bound door.
White roses and green fingers
of creeper, climbing over the
trellised porch above us, rustled
in the breeze, but there was
no other sound. The thudding
of our fists on the panels of the
door went thundering away
into the depths of the house,
then died, swallowed by the
silence within. We walked back
into the courtyard.
“There’s someone in that
doorway over there,” Moore-
head said. “Hey, you!”
We started toward a
shadowed doorway, one of a
series of doorways opening
from a row of low outhouses
built on to the main body of
the chateau. A man came out
of the doorway. He wore blue
jeans and wood-soled leather
clogs, and he held a threadbare
cloth cap in his workman’s
hands. His glance flitted un-
easily across our faces, and his
reddish moustache twitched
nervously as he bade us good-
day. He told us the chateau
people had fled with the begin-
ning of the air-bombardment
which had launched the in-
vasion, but that he had stayed
on as caretaker. No, he
regretted that he bad not a
bottle of wine to sell us.
“The cellar is locked,” he
explained, in his Normandy
patois. “The key is not here.”
This was doubtless untrue,
but we could not dispute it. And
we could not blame the peasant
for exercising native caution ;
be had probably learnt by
harsh experience that soldiers
of any nation are not to be
trusted in wine-cellars.
We went back to the jeep and
spread our rations on the
bonnet. Moorehead found a
kitchen-garden which had
obviously been little tended of
late, but it yielded onions and
two or three small starveling
lettuces, and we washed these
under a tap and added them
to our bully-beef and biscuits.
" Maurice , WILL you stop fooling with the celery ?”
All the time, as we ate, the
guns were thudding, reminding
us that the battle was still being
fought. Now and then the
sharp clatter of a machine-gun
would interject, like a terrier
trying to make his voice heard
above the baying of blood-
hounds. *
We finished eating, and were
about to climb into the jeep
and return to the battle when
a scuffling noise broke on the
quiet of the courtyard. The
sound came from a nearby
stable, and we swung round to
face it. From the half-open
doorway of the stable a pair
of lop-eared puppies rolled,
playfully savaging each other,
snarling, yapping, snapping,
oblivious that strangers were
watching them. Their white-
and-black markings were the
markings of fox-terriers, their
heads were the heads of
spaniels, but their ears were the
ears of dachshunds, which led
us to suspect they were the off-
spring of an irregular war-time
union between some panze>
grenadier’s pet and a French
canine collaborationist.
We closed in on the pups
and, suddenly scenting us, they
ended their friendly bout and
skeltered back into the stable.
We cornered them there,
crouching fearfully in the straw
under a loose-box, and Dunn
made an expert biological
examination of each in turn,
“We’ll take the bitch,” he
said. "I always prefer a bitch.
Bitches are more affectionate.”
“H’m,” said Moorehead. “Are
we going to have trouble with
her?’*
“Oh,” Dunn said, “not
much.” He had the dog-lover’s
philosophic capacity to accept
the facts of life.
And so, with the shivering
biteh tucked into the blouse of
Dunn’s battledress, we drove
out of the courtyard, one
member stronger than we haet
driven into it. The uneasy
peasant watched us go, peering
shyly from his doorway and
obviously relieved that we had
looted the chateau of nothing
more valuable than a nameless
bitch who, at best, was only
one more mouth for him to
feed.
We called her Tilly, surnamed
sur-Seulles, in token of the fact
that she was recruited into
Montgomery’s 2nd Army at the
moment that British tanks were
in the act of taking the town
of that name. I do not know if
she was ever conscious of the
significance of the name she
bore. I doubt it, but it doesn’t
matter anyway. If Tilly grieved
for the loss of her chateau
home and her brother’s com-
pany, she did not grieve for
long. Philip Dunn saw to that.
He had a way with dogs, and
Tilly was not proof against it.
She was never far from his side
by day, and at night she slept
snuggled into the small of his
back. It was Dunn who fed
her, and Dunn who, when the
exigencies of active service
permitted it, bathed her; he
would rather have gone hungry
and unbathed himself than
have failed to minister to Tilly’s
needs.
'T'ILLY was an animal who
took life as it came ; she
had an infinite capacity for
accepting things as they are,
and nothing ever really sur-
prised her. This calmness of
(Continued on page 32)


POLITICAL POINTS
The legality of key-money apparently
depends on whether* it’s the key of the
front- or the back-door.
• •
Cahill has written to Menzies asking
for an increased grant under the Com-
monwealth-States housing agreement,
and a further easing of credit for home-
building. The letter must be taken as
one of those documents composed purely
for the record. Menzies had already
indicated that the handout at the Loan
Council meeting last month was to be the
last before the end of the financial year.
• •
Opposition parties in the N. S. Wales
Parliament have come to a sensible agree-
ment over candidature for country seats
at the next State election. Neither party
will run a candidate for any seat held by
the other, and in Labor-held seats they
will clash in only three —Dubbo, Mudgee
and Young, where there will be full
exchange of preferences. Liverpool Plains,
the scene of a three-cornered contest last
election, has been conceded to the
Country party, and the C.P. has agreed
not to nominate a candidate for Wagga,
won from Labor by the Liberals at a by-
election last December.
In a statement signed by Liberal leader
Morton and Col. Bruxner, leader of the
Country party, the two parties agreed to
hold joint meetings to determine common
policy and tactics.
When election-time arrives Morton will
deliver the joint policy-speech covering
the main objectives of both parties;
Bruxner will then deliver the speech in
the country, elaborating on it in dealing
with rural matters. “On appropriate
occasions” the two leaders will share the
platform.
The agreement should end the bickering
and recriminations that have been going
on ever since the last election.
• •
Mr. Justice Sholl apologised to 28
jurors who were summoned but had
nothing to do because all the cases were
settled out of court or adjourned in the
Victorian Supreme Court. In one week
more than 1300 man-hours were lost in
one of four Supreme Court civil-jury
courts, and the judge pointed out that
this amounted to more than half the
time needed to build a house.
• •
As a result of recent rains all Sydney’s
reservoirs except the Nepean are over-
flowing and the Water Board says the
threat of a water-shortage, so imminent
at the beginning of January, has been
banished for a long time to come. By
the end of the year the wall of the
Warragamba Dam will be high enough to
hold as much water as the present
capacity of all the dams in the Sydney
water district.
• •
Fares., to and from work are not per-
missible deductions for income - tax
purposes, the High Court has ruled in
a 4-1 judgment, McTiernan, J., being the
dissenting voice. There was never much
chance of the court ruling otherwise. The
decision hinged on whether fares should
be regarded as an expense incurred in
earning taxable income or whether they
were merely personal expenses. The
majority verdict ruled they were p.e.,
saying that a taxpayer still has the, right
to choose where he will live and that his
daily journeys are rendered necessary
as much by his choice of a locality to live
in as by his choice of occupation.
The purposes of such journeys are
indeed as much to enable him to reside at
home as to attend his place of work or
business.
Very neat, but few people today have
an unrestricted choice of where to live.
Still, the court probably considers that a
transient phase and takes the long-term
view.
Next move in the argument will
probably be an appeal to the Treasurer.
• •
“Mugga Way”: Some Canberra
citizens are still asserting that until they
have proper representation they shouldn’t
be taxed. They are referring, not to their
voteless member in the Reps., but to
the continued absence of the Legislative
Council recommended some time ago by
a Senate committee. They were reminded
the other day that the converse of their
proposition also held good—that when
they were eventually represented in an
elected Council they would have to be
prepared to pay local taxes towards por-
tion of the cost at least of their local
services. The chairman of the Senate
committee, Senator McCallum, pointed
out that such matters as administration of
probate, adoption of children, apprentice-
ship, crime, education and the registra-
tion of dogs shouldn’t be the responsi-
bility of a national Government, even in
the National capital. Most Australians
will agree with him.
• •
“C.A.A.”: One Western District (Vic.)
boy was not among the lucky ones who
got their pet rabbits back alive (B.
6/3/’5B). Living too far from Melbourne
zoo to take his pet there he had destroyed
it before the reprieve was granted. So
he sent the skin through the post to
Bolte and is demanding compensation,
the rabbit having been acquired by
hard-earned saving.
The Bolte Government chose Ballarat
for its third country Cabinet-meeting—
Bendigo and Geelong had been honored
earlier. At the Ballarat School of Mines
Ministers came up against something
unexpected when they passed a black-
board on which was chalked “Vote
Labor.”
• •
N. S. Wales Housing Minister Landa
is still hankering after his artificial-
satellite town at Minto. He’s warning the
public not to buy any of the five-acre
blocks being offered for sale —they’ll
later be resumed for housing.
• •
“Stromlo”: In America, where there’s
a recession, and in Australia, where there
isn’t, there is a remarkable similarity in
the approach of the opposing political
parties. The U.S. Republican Administra-
tion is worrying that tax-reductions would
increase inflation, it is stimulating the
release of bank-credit, arranging for more
public works, and expressing the belief
that expansion of defence-spending will
pep-up the lagging economy. At the
same time the Democrats, with ex-Presi-
dent Harry Truman in the van, are pro-
claiming that unemployment is spreading
at an excessive rate and that disaster
stares the nation in the face. It is, of
course, a Congressional-election year,
just as in Australia it is a Federal-election
year.
There may be some cause for concern
in the U.S., in view of the large number
of men out of jobs and an economy
delicately balanced on enormous hire-
purchase and consumer-credit, but the
authorities there believe there will be an
upswing next month. In Australia there
can be little genuine alarm, even if some
necessary caution. Even Albert Monk,
now recanting a bit on his migration
declaration, doesn’t think unemployment
is serious here.
• •
Sydney’s National Art Gallery is to be
renamed the Art Gallery of New South
Wales. The bill giving effect to the
change brought mild protest from two
quarters —those who deplored the break
with tradition and those who thought the
new name too presumptuous and would
have preferred Sydney Art Gallery. The
second complaint has more strength than
the first —since Federation there has been
no justification for “National.” But
irrespective of its official designation,
most people will continue to think of it,
as in the past, as the Sydney Art Gallery.
• •
G.M.-H. have announced plans for an
£8,742,000 expansion programme
designed to increase the output of Holden
cars and utilities from 100,000 to 125,000
a year. Extensions to the assembly-
plant at Pagewood (N.S.W.) will absorb
£809,000; Fishermen’s Bend (Vic.),
£344,000; the rest will go towards
equipping a factory and office buildings
at Elizabeth (S.A.) to employ 1400 per-
sons and modernising the Woodville
(S.A.) plant. The increased production
seems to indicate an increase in the
export-market.


Legislation now before the Queensland
Parliament will restore local-option polls
for deciding whether or not new hotels
should be permitted in any locality. Areas
for local-option purposes may comprise
“an electoral district, any division of an
electoral district or any area determined
by the Governor-in-Council.” A minimum
of 10 per cent, of electors may seek a
poll, but if a proposal is defeated no
further action may be taken for five years.
Proclaimed tourist-areas will be excluded
from the polls.
• •
Opposition-leader Morton attacked the
Cahill Government last week because of
the paucity of its contribution to the
upkeep of roads. He said that last year
N. S. Wales Government road-authorities
spent £3 9s. Bd. per person. Figures for
other States were: Victoria, £4 Bs. 9d. ;
Westralia, £6 1 Is. 1 Id. ; South Australia,
£7 10s.; Queensland, £7 14s. Bd. ; Tas-
mania, £8 18s. 3d. The N. S. Wales
Government made no contribution to
road-funds from general revenue; the
whole lot came from motor-taxes. As a
result of this niggardly policy local
councils in N. S. Wales had to pay a
bigger percentage towards road-costs
than in any other State.
• •
Although there is nothing spectacular
in the improvement in the unemployment
figures for February, the important thing
is that there is an improvement, which
tends to take the sting out of Labor’s cry
that the economy is on the skids and that
nothing but a change of Government can
save the country from another depression.
Actual drop in the number of persons
receiving unemployment-pay was 2976,
bringing the total on relief to 26,879.
Registered applicants for work fell by
4736 to 70,029. At the same time the
number of job-vacancies registered with
the Commonwealth Employment Bureau
declined by 5177 to 20,924.
• •
Macmillan’s Conservative Government
lost another seat —the second in five
weeks when Labor won the Kelvingrove
(Glasgow) by-election. The Conservative
majority of 2888 at the general election
was converted into a Labor majority of
1360. Unpopularity of the Govern-
ment’s Rent Act is assumed to be the
chief reason for the swing ; as. in Roch-
dale (the other lost seat), Labor cam-
paigners went fiat-out to get at the electors
through their rent-books.
• •
Party strengths in the Commons now
stand: Conservatives, 334 ; Labor, 280 ;
Liberals, 5 ; Independents, 9. There are
two more by-elections pending.
• •
Reporting another unprofitable year in
the field of motor-vehicle third-party
insurance—a loss of £345,000, bringing
the accumulated deficit to £3,113,000
the general-manager of the N. S. Wales
Government Insurance Office says that
it is obvious that something must be done
to arrest this continuous drain on the
resources of his organisation. He suggests
that, rather than increase the premium-
charges from time to time, it would be
better to amend the Act to limit the
indemnity provided by a third-party
policy.
Another reform in this field would be
to change the system of determining
damages. The jury’s task could be
confined to deciding guilt; damages
could be fixed by the judge or a special
assessor.
• •
Treasurer Fadden last week introduced
the Government’s 14 banking bills —
rejected by the Senate last session—and
the debate was adjourned until yesterday.
Labor members hotly opposed the Gov-
ernment’s decision to put the bills
through in one package, claiming that
such important measures should be fully
debated. This was rank hypocrisy
considering (1) that the bills were fully
debated last year, (2) that Labor has
announced its intention of voting against
them no matter how much they are
debated, and (3) that Labor used its
Senate numbers to reject them last session
without debate.
Obviously the real test is the Senate,
and further debate in the Reps, would be
a mere waste of time. Senator Byrne
(Q.L.P.) has declared his intention of
voting for the bills on the first reading, so
that they will be open to full debate this
time. Both he and the two D.L.P.
Senators still intend to oppose them when
the final vote is taken.
Talk of a double-dissolution can be
dismissed. The Government has no
reason to seek one, as it would gain
more advantage from a half-Senate poll
along with the general election ; Labor is
not likely to want one—it would give
the D.L.P. a chance to pick up more
Labor seats.
• ■ •
It doesn’t do for a Labor man to
express an honest opinion if it happens
to differ from immediate policy of the
executive. With Labor M.P.s beating the
unemployment - drum Menzies quoted
Albert Monk, president of the A.C.T.U.,
as saying on TV that there was no serious
unemployment situation in Australia.
Ward interjected, ‘’What would he know
about it?” and subsequently in the
Senate, Queensland Senator Benn
weighed-in with “He was drunk.”
The “what-would-he-know-about-it?”
technique is thrown at anyone who quotes
unemployment statistics that don’t
support Labor’s panic - mongering.
Official figures are rejected in favor of
loose authorities such as “any worker
knows ’ or “any trade-union secretary
could tell you.” As to the charge of
drunkenness, it was surprising to hear it
come from Benn; it’s usually part of
Ward’s repartee.
• • ,
Unemployment-figures from the world
at large. Belgium (Feb.), 195,144 ; Britain
(Feb.), 424,000 ; Canada (Jan.), 520,000;
Denmark (Dec.), 113,046; W. Germany
(Jan.), 1,432,067 ; Italy (Feb.), 1,640,000 ;
Netherlands (Feb.), 125,000; Sweden
(Feb.), 56,000; U.S. (Feb.), 5,173,000.
Australia, on the worst interpretation,
doesn’t seem so badly off after all.
• •
Taxes, Federal and State, took an
average of £127 ss. 3d. from every person
in Australia last year. Income-tax
accounted for a little more than half this
amount, £65 Is. Id.; Customs and
excise, £3O; sales-tax, £l3 3s. 9d.;
payroll-tax, £5 2s. Id.; various motor-
taxes, £3 10s. Bd.; probate-duty,
£3 17s. lOd.
LEGAL OR COUNTERFEIT?


There's a
flight to suit YOU!
Whenever you travel, wherever you travel, there’s always a
TAA VISCOUNT flight to suit you. For your convenience,
TAA operates daily round-the-clock Viscount flights, between
all states. From as far north as Cairns, to Hobart in the south,
right across the nation to Perth in the west, you can fly TAA Viscount.
More people fly IMM the friendly way
Reservations: TAA Booking Offices in all States oi*Hmy authorised Travel Agent.
PERSONAL ITEMS
With the arrival of the new editor of
Sydney “Herald” there will be two
Anguses in the upper stratum —Angus
McLachlan and Angus Maude. But
there will still be only one Rupert.
• •
New president of the Victorian Navy
League, which fosters an interest in the
Navy and Merchant Navy, chiefly among
youngsters, and has the paternal approval
of the Navy Board, is Captain A. Norman
Boulton, principal nautical and ship
surveyor with the Shipping and Transport
Department in Melbourne. An Essex man
who came to Australia in 1926, and has
lived in Sydney and Perth, he commanded
the corvette Fremantle in War II and was
specially commended by the Navy Board
for salvage work on the steamer Marosa
near Wilson’s Promontory. He com-
manded several other ships during the
war and, before his current departmental
appointment, was director of navigation
and lighthouses in W.A.
• •
K. A. M. Grant took over as manager
of the Olympic Tyre and Rubber Com-
pany’s N. S. Wales branch at the
beginning of this month. Grant, who was
N.S.W. sales-manager before his new
appointment, is a councillor and Fellow
of the Australian Institute of Credit
Management, an associate of the Aus-
tralian Institute of Management, and is
well known in N.S.W. for his part in
the establishment of the Australian
Sporting Car Club, of which he was a
foundation committeeman and vice-
president.
• 9
Quite a considerable part of Henry
Wells Rowden’s life is spent in the air—
as might be expected of a man who runs
such a big show in each of three nations
as Felt and Textiles. He is the boss in
the expanding company’s businesses in
Australia, New Zealand and South
Africa. He has crossed the Tasman
something like 250 times and makes
frequent trips—he is on one now —across
the Indian Ocean to South Africa.
An international air-group recently
presented him with a gold plaque with
FELT AND TEXTILES
five stars, to mark his 500,000 miles of
flying in commercial aircraft; a star is
added to the plaque for those privileged
coves for each 100,000 miles of travel.
He is a New Zealander who has risen
as rapidly as the company since the war,
a keen golfer, and now is domiciled,
between flights, in Melbourne.
• •
George A. Lloyd is almost as well
known in the Australian world of motor-
cars as is Lord Nuffield, whose represen-
tative he has been for almost a lifetime.
Now he is retiring from the managing-
directorship of the British Motor Corpora-
tion (Aust.) on reaching 65. George,
when much younger, ran a motor-cycle
business at the back of the old Bulletin
office at 214 George Street, and the row
his testing of machines caused used to
drive James Edmond to fury. In his
relaxed moments these days George
Lloyd is to be seen riding a horse round
St. Ives, on Sydney’s northern side,
where for a long time he has been aware
of the pleasures of open spaces and rural
pursuits. He will continue on the board
of B.M.C. and will remain Lord Nuffield’s
personal representative in Australia.
• _ •
Just on every year since 1914, when
he joined the Country Roads Board,
Harold P. Wood has travelled over most
of Victoria’s roads, and in the years
since he has been highways engineer, he
has travelled the lot —some 500,000
miles of inspection. Most Victorian
roads now are very good, but Harold
Wood isn’t complacent; he, says he has
no idea how much better or worse they
are than those in the States with such
greater distances, there’s a lot to be done
with them yet, and all he can claim for
them is that they are passable. So with
a fellow so lacking in complacency as
that, Victorians have been more or
less assured of —er passable roads.
Harold Wood is an inveterate motorist
and keen angler, interests which have
fitted in very nicely with his travelling
job. He is going right on motoring and
angling.
• •
“C.S.”: Paul Jones, nearing 80, has
announced his retirement from politics
and withdrawal from selection by the
D.L.P. to recontest Doutta Galla
Province next June at the Victorian
Legislative Council elections.
Jones first got into Parliament when
Robert Cook, the sitting member, forgot
to nominate for the Indi seat in the
Reps., and at the next election, in 1929,
Jones defeated Cook. He lost the seat at
the landslide in 1931, but he got back
into Parliament, for Doutta Galla, then


Melbourne West, in 1938 as an A.L.P,
man, and held it ever since. He has
always been interested more in gold-
mining than politics. He was a brilliant
scholar, and he became an M.A. in
Melbourne, but then went mining. Later
he was a schoolteacher and he served in
the First War with the First Australian
Tunnelling Coy. Now he is a mere
capitalist, with mining interests.
Although he gave advancing years as
his chief reason for withdrawing, his
decision was probably influenced by the
fact that Melbourne West is rather more
A.L.P. than D.L.P., and lesser students
than M.A.s could Work out that the
chances of re-election were slight.
• •
Ralph ML Monk, vice-president in
charge of industrial and employee rela-
tions, Caterpillar Tractor Co., U.S.A., is
visiting the company’s subsidiary, Cater-
pillar of Australia Pty., Ltd.
• •
Official records show that Francis Joel
Horwood is a member of the Australian
Meat Board, but even some .of his
colleagues may be surprised to hear it, as
the big bloke here depicted by Prior is
never known by anything but “Bill.”
The board is the advisory body to the
Federal Government on meat-export
problems, and Horwood is one of the
three fat-lamb representatives, but lambs
are only one of the subjects on which his
advice should be worth having.
He could give a few hints on the tough
job of stripping mallet-bark, an occupa-
tion he learnt as a lad when his father
took up virgin land at Darkan in the
timber-country of Westralia’s sou’-west;
of wheat-farming—he was three years at
Cunderdin in the W.A. wheat-belt; of
commerce —a spell in Elder, Smiths’
stock-department and, later, with an
insurance company ; of 18-pounders—he
MEAT BOARD
was at Passchendaele and thereabouts
with 54 Battery, A.I.F. ; or Air Force
routine —in War II he commanded opera-
tional-base units at Darwin, Torres Straits,
Merauke and Exmouth Gulf. For a while
in 1940 he was a manpower-officer, and
AUSTRALIANS IN MENADO
[By Charles Meeking]
TJOMBING by planes from Djakarta of
" the radio-station at Menado, centre
of the literate and mostly Christian Mina-
hassa area of North Celebes, must distress
anyone who knows that beautiful and
fertile region. In particular, it may be
worrying Roy Shipley, former Australian
Army man, who describes himself as
“the only Australian in Celebes.” It
would be interesting to learn whether
Roy has yet succeeded in getting from
the Australian Embassy in Djakarta the
Australian flag he was seeking when I
first met him in 1954.
Roy, the red-bearded and cheerful
proprietor of a garage and bus-service in
Menado, called in to see me an hour after
1 arrived. Over some beer we exchanged
yarns.
After the war he had married the
daughter of the Chinese owner of several
coconut-plantations. She, he told me, had
succored several R.A.A.F. men during
the war when their aircraft had been
forced down on Lake Tanjarno, up on
the lovely plateau where Seventh Day
Adventist churches are much more
numerous than mosques, and had kept
them in hiding for months before the
Japs had discovered them and buried
them alive.
During the next few days I saw a good
deal of Roy. Then he told me with some
excitement that he wanted me to meet a
fellow-Australian. Out at Roy’s home
that night I met a towering blond giant
of a man in white shorts, long white
socks and shirt. He was Gunthar
Tokkus, the “fellow-Australian,” and
immensely proud of his Australian
nationality, gained after his migration
from some part of Scandinavia.
It turned out that he was the captain
of a Panamanian freighter I had seen
lying out in the roads, loading copra for
Sourabaya. He invited us to visit him
the next day, promising as a special treat,
a “really Australian meal” of steak and
eggs with chips.
The lunch down in the small saloon
was a great success. The “steak” was, I
think, a piece of fairly tough Indonesian
goat (the only meat in those parts), but
the chips and eggs were up to the Aus-
tralian standards that Gunthar had pains-
takingly imparted to the cook.
Roy and I exchange occasional letters,
but he probably didn’t see the cable-
message that appeared in the newspapers
about a year after our luncheon. It
announced tersely that the Nationalist
Chinese on Formosa had captured a ship
trying to run their blockade into Com-
munist China. Its captain was one
Gunthar Tokkus,
I wonder if they give him steak and
chips, with eggs, wherever he is today?
there’s a story involving a recruiting-train
and a manpower-stamp which says he
manpowered himself out of farming and
into the R.A.A.F.
Nowadays he puts-in his time in
between Meat Board meetings running
his 3000-acre property, Deepdale, five
miles out of Geraldton, where he breeds
sheep and cattle and grows wheat, barley
and oats. If Canberra decides to establish
a Crayfish Board, Horwood should be a
natural for appointment. He pioneered
the export of frozen crav-tails from
Geraldton to America and is still a
director of the Golden Gleam Fish Pro-
cessing Co., which he formed for the
purpose.
Last year the Geraldton catch of cray-
fish topped 1000 tons.
• •
Brighton (Melb.) councillors have been
too knowing to let Cedric Tuxen retire,
and have reappointed him at £2500 a
year, plus an additional £5OO a year
allowance, as engineer and building-
surveyor from his retirement date this
month, when he reaches 65. Municipally
he is one of the most knowledgeable
engineers in the nation. He was chairman
of the Institution of Engineers in 1937-38,
chairman of the original committee which
framed the uniform buildngs regulations,
and also has chaired surveyors’ boards.
He began as assistant-engineer, and has
been engineer for 32 years. Hanging on
to good officers is an old Brighton
custom ; the previous Town Clerk, J. H.
Taylor, retired at 72. He insisted.
• - •
“Kros”: Winner of 1958 Philips
Electrical Industries post - graduate
scholarship in Physics is 23-year-old
John Mainstone, son of the Rev. and
Mrs. S. A. Mainstone, of Norwood
(S.A.). An honors graduate in physics,
he will do research at Adelaide Uni-
versity into meteor-astronomy and the
upper atmosphere.
• •
Into the Silence:
In S.A., at 73, Dudley Charles Turner,
president since 1951 of the Royal Automobile
Association of S.A. Worked in an honorary
capacity with a string of organisations, repre-
senting Australian automobile concerns at
European’ conferences and holding various
positions with the local Liberal and Country
Party League.
In Sydney, at 70, Captain S. G. Hooper,
former Deputy-Director of Navigation in
Sydney. After he retired in 1953 he was
awarded the M.B.E. for his services to Aus-
tralian shipping.
In London, at 73, Sir Sydney White, grand
secretary of the United Grand Lodge of
England.
In Sydney, Ida Dawson, journalist and
Bulletin contributor for 60 years.
In New Zealand, at 76, Charles N. Taylor,
pioneer of oil-prospecting and drilling opera-
tions in New Zealand, also coalmining and
gold-dredging.
In London, at 96, Barrow Cadbury, oldest
member of the cocoa-and-chocolate family.
Chairman of Cadbury Bros. 1922-32, and
chairman of the British Cocoa and Chocolate
Co. 1918-32.
In Cheltenham, Vic., at 72, Dr, Andrew
Norman Dickson.


ABORIGINALITIES
THEY evidently give without counting
the cost around Tenterfield (N.S.W.).
Last year their ambulance staff con-
ducted a wool-drive to raise funds. When
show-time came, the ambulance entered
eight of the fleeces donated in appro-
priate sections, and won eight prizes,
including the Grand Championship.—•
“Miss M.”
» * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Can’t say whether
’roos like their grass-trees predigested
(B. 19/2/’5B), but if “Wommadoo” or his
mates ever get the chance to watch the
big jumpers in black boy country they
may see a big boomer reach up, grasp the
blackboy’s long spike with its forelegs,
bend it down and eat it like we’d eat
corn on the cob. Far as I know, the only
time they do this is when the spike is
young and green, just before it flowers.
* * * *
“Kelms”: Nothing peculiar about a
bushfire streaking through too quickly to
do more than scorch the solid timber (B.
19/2/’5B). Some Westralian trees and
shrubs seem to make provision for that,
in the form of a highly inflammable,
wispy covering that will carry a flame at
a terrific speed but doesn’t retain enough
heat or ember to keep the fire going.
I’ve seen a fire streak up a gumtree in
"I just thought-up an answer for that smart-alick remark you made
earlier in the evening !”
a split-second ; but if the day isn’t hot
enough to make the leaves combustible
the flame peters-out at the top of the
trunk. Same thing happens in the under-
growth—the dry grasses carry the fire too
fast for it to get a hold on the shrubs.
On a day when the fire-ha<zard is high it’s
a different proposition. Then everything
combusts. I’ve seen the leaves of a big
gum burst into flame while the fire was
still a couple of hundred yards away.
* * * *
“Bird”: We have lubritoriums, fruit-
ologists, paintologists, and now I see, in
an ad. for a large department-store, a
“toyteria.”
* * * *
“J.R.”: Making a boggy detour off the
Bruce Highway outside Mackay (Q.) after
22in. of rain had fallen in 48hrs., we
came upon a herd of cows which either
couldn't or wouldn’t get out of the mud.
Driver, in a swift decision, headed for
the smallest of them, a leggy calf, which
took off bawling for the scrub (followed
by its elders) after the roughest nose-wipe
since it left its mother’s knee. Two days
later, and the car gleaming again, the
marks of the nostrils were still smeared
in a straight line from front guard to
rear.
* * * *
“Spin”: The Kybra, one of W.A.’s
old coastal ships, has left the northern
run ; but the name shouldn’t be allowed
to pass. It’s a native word for “ship,”
but the word was coined within the last
few hundred years and shows how
resilient the native tongues were. It’s
formed of two words “ky” (“far away”)
and “bru” or “bra” (“I saw it”). A
translation might be, “I saw something
new and strange in the distance,” and
probably the first native who reported
the sighting of an old Dutch or Portu-
guese sailing-ship called this excitedly to
his disbelieving fellow-tribesmen. Pro-
bably the natives, who had a keen sense
of humor and dearly loved a joke, used
the term derisively _ until sailing-ships
became comparatively common around
the coast, when the word would auto-
matically become part of the language.
* * * *
“Bass”: A noise that maddened me
when I was camped in the jarrah country
(W.A.) resembled a male cicada advertis-
ing his views towards matrimony, but it
added a harsh, grating sound that
wouldn’t have disgraced a circular-saw
trying to bite through dry sheoak. It
started when I put my head to the pillow,
and I was on the point of shifting camp
when I traced it to a borer in one of the
saplings my bunk was made of. Since
then I’ve been prepared to bet that the
dalgite, a sort of bandicoot which inhabits
the drier parts of W.A., finds grubs by
hearing rather than by scent. He knows
just where to dig for tne grubs which live
in the roots of some acacias ; ’ and the
natives, who relish those same grubs, have
a healthy respect for the dalgite’s ability
to dig straight down to a grub through
9in. of earth. These grubs tunnel nearly
to the surface before pupating, and 1 think
the dalgite hears them biting their way out
of the roots.
• * * *
“Manamoi”: A truck loaded with
shearers en route to a new shed wound
along the bush track, mulga-branches
brushing either side. Well above eye-
level, the headlights showed tufts of wool
caught.on twigs, and the driver deduced,
correctly, that the last truck to pass that
way had been piled high with unbaied
sheepskins and dead wool. Presently,
beside him, old Joe stirred, exhaled a
lungful of alcohol fumes and opened his
eyes. Then he sat up with a jerk and gave
a wild yell. “Pull up! Turn round!”
“What the ?” inquired the driver.
Pointing a shaking finger at some tufts
on a branch about 6ft. above ground
level, Joe declared, “If y’ think I’m shear-
in’ wethers that flamin’ tall, y’ can think
again. Take me back to town.”
* * *
“Spin”: The silvereye of sou’-Westralia
{Zosterops australasice, or the “western”
silvereye) doesn’t extend beyond the limits
I mentioned (B. 15/1/’5B). The N.S.W.
bird “Baksac” knows (B. 26/2/’5B) is
either the grey-backed silvereye (Z.
halmaturina ) or, more probably, the grey-
breasted silvereye (Z. lateralis ). The three
species might be hard to distinguish in the
field, but there’s enough difference for
scientific identification. It’s the grey-
backed species that has become acclima-
tised in N.Z. Incidentally, I’d like to
know whether the two eastern-State


BOVS'
REFORMATORY
LADIES
DRESSING
SHEDS
IDEAL UPBRINGING FOR BUDDING AFTERNOON-PAPER EDITOR


species mingle, or stick strictly to their
own territories, as the two Westralian
species do. Cayley lists the grey-backed
species as extending from Tasmania to
N.S.W., while the grey-breasted inhabits
parts of Queensland, N.S.W. and Lord
Howe Island. I’d like to bet the two
species meet in N.S.W. without actually
overlapping.
* * * •
“Agricola”: The New Aussie had
never milked a cow before but wanted to
try, so I handed him a bucket and let
him have a go at Poppy, a benign, easy-
milking matron. A sudden crash and
bellow brought me running to the bail,
where Malik lay on his back on the wet
floor while the cow did her best to break-
up the shed. He had tried to milk the
cow from between the back legs, and
had tied a knot in her tail to keep the
“brush” out of his face!
* * * •
“Kesem”: The horseman has yet
another use for the old felt hat (B.
19/2/’5B). Before mounting a bad ’un
he’ll thrust it under the head-straps of the
bridle and thus cover the nearside eye of
his horse. Once aboard, he'll quickly
retrieve the “lid” and, with it, belt the
plunging and very narked moke.
* * * *
“Manamoi”: I said nothing about
“natural” diets (B. 26/2/’5B), ' and
“Gravelsnatcher’s” assertion that I
would use the term is a most improbable
supposition. Anyway, “G.” seems to
agree with my main points: that
kangaroos are herbivorous; that they,
and other marsupials, are believed to
have evolved from a common, non-
herbivorous ancestor ; that some smaller,
less-highly-evolved species still favor a
mixed diet (“G.” instanced the fat-tailed
dunnart, Sminthopsis, I the rat-kangaroos)
and that their ancestors’ feeding habits
probably account for divergement from
vegetarianism on the part of the
herbivores. I’ve seen it stated elsewhere
that ’roos and wallabies catch fish with
their forepaws, and would be most
interested to find a detailed eyewitness
account of the procedure. In particular,
I’d like to know which of the many
races of wallabies, or ’roos, possess this
skill, how they secure the fish after
scooping them up and, if they eat them
(this is implied but not stated), how they
set about doing so. Do they, like some
of their smaller relatives, neatly separate
flesh from skin and bones, or do they
eat scales, fins and all?
* * * *
“Rayme”: Young Arthur was talking
about buying a small mixed farm, and
someone told Uncle Bill. “What!”
exclaimed Unc. “Arthur on a farm?
Him! Why, he couldn’t even milk
arrowroot-biscuits! ”
* * * *
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: Some groups of
Kukukuku never previously visited were
encountered by a recent patrol led by
Patrol-Officer J. C. Baker and Dr. D. C.
Gajdusek, which was investigating the
incidence of the “kuru” disease. The
party had to show a great deal of for-
bearance, and the absence of any
“incidents” was a tribute to its capacity.
In two of the largest villages the Kuku-
kukus tried to push the patrol to its
limits by boisterous behavior, which
included attempts to pick Baker’s
pockets, and he had to be pretty abrupt
in checking them. Up to 100 men
visited camps, all carrying axes or bush-
knives, and every effort was made to
test the strength and weapons of the
Government party. It was insisted that
animals sold to the party for food should
be shot in front of the group, and after
one pig was shot a man dashed his bow
to the ground in violent anger, exclaim-
ing to the assembly, “I told you these
things were useless.” Another youth
was disappointed when he found, after
seeking a test, that a bullet passed right
through his wooden shield.
“ Slope — arms!"
Touching on the dura-
bility of Australian barb-wire, I question
“Sevenelms’s” claim (B. 5/ 3/ ’5B) that it
is unstrainable after 15 years. Provided
galvanised wire is used as tie-wire, it has
been my experience that the barbed
variety will last as long as plain wire in
any fence.
m * * v
“Kros”: Speaking of the Antarctic,
English medico L. D. A. Hussey, who is
president of the Antarctic C. b as well
as of the London Banjo Club, took along
a historic banjo when being interviewed
by the 8.8. C. The banjo had been on
longer trips than to a broadcast-studio —-
it had been with Dr. Hussey on a couple
of Sir Ernest Shackleton’s expeditions to
the Antarctic. In 1915 the expedition’s
ship Endurance was crushed in the ice,
but just before it sank Shackietcn
jumped back aboard. “We must save
Hussey’s banjo; it is vital mental-
medicine.” And so it proved, for it did a
good job cheering the explorers on an
enforced six months’ stay on the ice.
Autographed by Shackleton, it is still
in tune today.
* * * *
“Daika”: The school for native
captains of boats started by the co-
operative movement in Papua is an
excellent idea, provided they can instil
a sense of responsibility into the pupils.
Many a boat has been found to need new
planks because it had hit a reef, the
native skipper and crew not bothering to
report it. Lack of sense of responsibility
is the big trouble with Papuan-New
Guinea natives. That they can learn and
be efficient has been proven by the way
many of the co-ops are run, notwithstand-
ing the high embezzlement-rate —but a
lot of that is due to the family-ties in
Melanesian life.
CATTLE DOG
You’ve rendered your account, I’ll pay
the sum.
Well-bred you were, your pedigree
unstained
Although you played no pampered Show-
ring game —
With mark impressed by many a muster
run.
When tragic age reduced your vital edge
And chattering teeth along the riven grass
Kissed fatally, Time fingered all the cards
And drew the cancelling gun-shot from a
friend.
You knew the score and quietly death
invoked
Like handed gift denied a ring of curs:
Does lifelong trust condense to one brief
note,
Or final triumph mean a cowardice
spurned?
God grant I . die so well —tip such a
scale.
What’s in a name! Though Whisky you
were spelled
A spirit half so rare was never distilled.
N.S.W.
D. R. JACKSON.


“I still think We should've called her the Himalaya, Fred."
AWESTRALIAN wharfie is locally
known as “The Judge”—he is always
sitting on a case. —“Snip.”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Don’t know if a
sting from a catfish has ever driven a man
insane (B. 19/2/’5B), but I’ll take a shade
of odds “Fair Mac’s” mate, who copped
a ioitesque sting, wouldn’t have kept on
with the job if he’d trodden fair on the
spike of a W.A. cobbler, as the catfish
is known over here. I’ve helped to hold
down a bloke who took the full force of
that sting, and although he could grin
12 hours later, after medical attention,
he reckoned the wound was still throb-
bing. As for the ’ray, I’d say it could kill
a man easily. Ever seen that murderous
spike that could cut a man’s legs off or
bury itself six inches into his body—the
same spike that the natives used to gather
from the beaches and use to tip their
spears? At the same time the ’ray, or at
least some ’rays, have poison-glands from
which a stream of venom is injected into
the wound, and as a rule animals which
sting marine creatures use a particularly
lethal brand of poison, because so much
of it is lost in the water. That also applies
to the catfish, whose poisonous properties
gave rise to the belief that its flesh was
inedible. That’s wrong. Cobblers are
sold in thousands in Perth shops.
* * * •
“Miss M.”: I doubt if there’s a horse
in Australia today wearing an Army
brand on its hoof, but there were some
during World War 11. A unit, whose
humblest members had the picturesque
rank of “Roughrider,” broke-in and
trained riding- and pack-animals for use
in New Guinea, and at least one N.S.W.
camp had a Horse Transport unit. The
latter, whose reason for existence was
the saving of petrol, supplied the camp-
hospital with an ambulance —a covered
G.S. wagon, or, in civilian parlance, an
elongated wagonette. It must have been
a nightmare conveyance to the sick or
injured, but was popular with members
of the staff going on errands. The hospital
laundry was transported in a quaint little
two-wheeled pony-cart, with a deep well
between the wheels, and the garbage we
removed in a couple of gun-limbers
hitched together. When the grass got too
long around the girls’ huts, the boys
turned up with mowers, rakes and
wagons, and the camp took on the
pleasantly rural air of a hayfield. My
most vivid- memory of that camp is
of seeing a long string of pack-horses
silhouetted against the early-morning
sky, carrying loads of discarded palliasse-
straw to be burnt. Perhaps the horses
were really more picturesque than useful,
in a mechanised age ; but their super-
session by machines in actual fighting is
something no true horse-lover could
regret.
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: An impeccably packaged
product of Sydney manufacture consists
of chocolates in a dovetailed wooden
container having a lid impressed with a
picture of American redwoods, and in
fact for many years the box was made of
that timber, with the excusable dis-
crepancy that the picture showed Sequoia
gigantea and the wood was S. semper-
virens. Now, however, such a gift-box
from Sydney shows that, influenced by
Empire preference, the timber is western
red-cedar.
* * * *
“Retired Bagman”: These days
irrigated vegetable-crops for Darwin and
Rum Jungle are the main interest of the
few surviving farmers around Katherine
(N.T.), with pig-raising as a sideline. There
is considerable room for expansion with
these products, also for cropping to grain-
sorghum and fodder-grasses. Production-
Costs are high, with petrol over four-bob
a gallon and super, about £45 a ton.
Actually, Katherine is a Government
town with 90 per cent, of its residents
either on the taxpayers’ charge or living
on the money circulated by those who
are. The absence of the higher-paid civil
servants isn’t regretted by the not-quite-
so-high uppers who are in residence —and
few of the latter wish to leave even if a
shift means promotion. In a radius of
80 miles as much of the grazing-land is
held by resident as by absentee owners,
and it is only the recent high prices for
beef-cattle that have made it worth hold-
ing at all. Under natural conditions it is
about the poorest grazing-land in the
Territory. Still, Katherine, built on a
magnificent river, with railroad, the north-
south road running down its main street,
and the enormous Tindall airstrip only
a few miles out, has an assured future.
* * * *
TPQ a timberman it is interesting how
•*- generally consistent are leguminous
trees in growing dark and distinctive
wood. To this pod-bearing order belong
our darkest and most carvable black-
bean, blackwood (which in its “fiddle-
back” occurrence is the world’s showiest),
and its acacial cousins, gidgee, mulga,
ironwood, boree, yarran, brigalow and
myall—all outstandingly dark and heavy,
the first-named, at 831 b. per cubic-foot,
being Australia’s heavyweight champ.
In Malayan areas, Foxworthy, without
qualification, classes sena (or amboyna-
wood) as the top furniture-material.
J. C. Espinosa, of Philippine Timbers,
gives the accolade to ipil, from which are
made those many-lighted typhoon-proof
windows having pearlshell instead of
glass.
The noblest tree of the Malayan forest
is Kayu rajah, its wood dark red and
excellent for charcoal, the undersides of
its lofty limbs often hung with honey-
comb 100 ft. above ground. Fortuitously
or designedly, this tree is reputedly sacred
and it’s unlucky for an axeman to fell
one. The high-altitude collection of this
honey by night with damar torches is a
stingful and exciting occasion.
Lasrin, or East Indian walnut, func-
tions doubly as shelter for young tea-
plantations and the production of a
valuable cabinet-wood. It is, of course,
not a true walnut but, like every tree
here mentioned, a Leguminosa.
Padouk, well-known in world markets
as an export of the Andamans, is India’s
heaviest wood. Still in the same order,
we cross the Pacific to find Central
America’s logwood, of which thousands
of tons were shipped to Europe for its
dye-values. Further east are Brazil’s
jacarandas, star material for everything
from pianos to knife-handles.
To end (but not complete) this matter
on a high scholarly note, the Religious
Editor reminds me that King Solomon
enchanted his guest, the Queen of Sheba,
with a beautiful psaltery made of rare
almug-wood, which was hard, heavy and
dark-claret-colored and, of course, a true
Leguminosa.
SEVENELMS.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. I EWJS (Chairman! F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M DOUGLaSS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MAN lON, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in a/1 Country Centres
Business, Robbery.etc.
OVERDRAFT OR H.-P. FINANCE?
TN an N.S.W. country town
-*■ the other day five graziers
got together and decided to
shift their accounts from one
trading-bank to another. Their
grievance was that Bank No.
1 had declined to increase their
overdrafts in order to finance
the cost of new motor-vehicles
and the like, but had offered to
arrange hire-purchase finance
to cover their needs. Objecting
to the higher interest-cost
involved in hire-purchase, the
graziers went to Bank No. 2,
and found that their require-
ments could be financed on
overdraft, so after a private
discussion on the matter they
shifted to the more accommo-
dating bank.
The graziers were perfectly
within their rights. One is
entitled to “shop” where one
finds it most convenient and
economical to do so. But they
should not hold it against Bank
No. 1 for not being able to
look after them on 0.-d. Rather
should they feel fortunate that
Bank No. 2 was able to do so.
Banking has been a diffi-
cult and not-very-profitable
business for nearly the past
30 years. And ever since the
Curtin Government introduced
controls over banking during
the war under the Federal
defence-powers the discretion
of the banks in their activities
has been limited indeed.
Banks and H.-p.
Today, apart from life-
assurance offices and pastoral-
finance houses, there are two
principal types of lending
authorities—the banks and the
hire-purchase companies. The
hire-purchase concerns are not
restricted by banking legisla-
tion, and at the time of the fall
in wool-prices 2\ years ago,
with a severe deterioration in
in the trade-balance, the mod
Prime Minister Menzies could
get out of the h.-p. companies
was a “gentlemen's agreement”
to restrain their activities at a
time when lending through the
banking-system was severely
curtailed by law.
This gentlemen's agreement
did not stand up to the test of
business expediency, and today
the amount of money owing by
the public to hire-purchase
companies is in the vicinity of
£265 million, or about £27 10s.
a head for every man, woman
and child in Australia.
The huge inroads of hire-
purchase companies into the
borrowing-and-lending activi-
ties which were once the pre-
serve of the trading-banks is
seen when the total hire-pur-
chase debts are compared with
the total advances made by the
banks £265 million, com-
pared with £B7l million.
Though trading-bank advances
are still more than three times
the size of the h.-p. advances,
the proportion which this
consumer-credit bears to bank
advances is astonishing when
compared with the relative
position before the war.
In raising money to lend, the
banks are not permitted by law
to offer more than p.c. for
long-term fixed deposits. They
are not permitted to charge
more than 6 p.c. for advances,
and more usually only 5| p.c
By contrast, hire-purchase
concerns freely offer from 5-1
p.c. to 10 p.c. for money, and
lend it out at rates ranging
from an effective 10 p.c.-15
p.c. upwards.
By world standards Aus-
tralian hire-purchase interest-
rates are probably not
excessive. But they are clearly
much higher than bank-over-
draft rates. The fact that Aus-
tralian overdraft-rates are con-
siderably lower than those pre-
vailing in Britain at the present
time (where money costs around
8 p.c. on overdraft), or in South
Africa. Interest-rates in Canada
are comparable with Australia,
while in the United States
money is cheaper than in most
other countries, Australia in-
cluded.
Bank Profits
Because of the restriction of
their activities on the borrow-
ing and lending sides banks in
Australia have been making
lower profits than almost any
other kind of business. In
1957 the rate of profit to share-
holders’ funds employed was
5.6 p.c. On the other hand,
the earnings of “other finance”
companies, which would be
principally hire-purchase cos.,
was 10.4 p.c.
Today the £2O shares of the
“With you on our payroll , Wiggins , I always consider
that the unemployment statistics are understated by one."
Bank of N.S.W., which in this
century, anyway, has never
made a bonus-issue, stand at no
more than £37. That is equal to
375. for a 20s. share. By no
means .a great capital-incre-
ment after a period of 141 years
in business! It would be a very
poor pastoral property that
hadn’t increased tenfold in
value in that time. Over the last
decade dividends paid by the
'Wales have averaged 8.4 p.c.
Faced by the comparatively
uncontrolled activities of hire-
purchase companies, one by
one the trading-banks of Aus-
tralia have either formed new
terms-finance cos. in which they
have taken a share-interest
(usually 40 p.c.), or have
acquired a substantial
interest in existing h.-p. cos.
The last to move was the
Commercial Banking Co. of
Sydney, Ltd., the plans of
which were dealt with in last
week’s Bulletin.
In acquiring a share-interest
in these terms-finance concerns,
it is unlikely that the banks will
channel anything more than a
normal amount of credit
through them. Any ideas the
banks may have on lending to
these affiliated concerns is con-
ditioned by the general credit-
policy laid-down by the
central bank.
At the end of last year the
central bank held £350 million
of the trading-banks’ money in
special accounts (“f roz e n
funds”). This has since been
reduced by £l5 million, which
the banks between them will
be able to utilise in various
ways. In public discussion
emphasis has been laid on
housing as having No. 1
priority when this money is
being lent by the banks. In
whatever manner it is lent, it
is most unlikely that it will be
employed by the banks to
stimulate consumer - credit
through h.-p. concerns.
Funds from “Note”-issues
Hire-purchase concerns,
whether affiliated with trading-
banks or not, will still have to
draw most of their funds from
the investing public by offering
comparatively high interest on
unsecured notes and the like.
At their last balance-date the
three biggest hire-purchase
finance cos. in the Common-
wealth —all now affiliated with
trading-banks—were able to
show that two had no overdraft
at all, and the other had cut its
overdraft in two during the
year.
The country-town graziers
who took a dim view of being
asked to seek h.-p. finance for
their vehicle-purchases can
take it for granted that they


My Dad is smart...
I'll say he is! Soon after he opened an A.N.Z. Cheque
Account, he and Mum began something they call a Budget
the A.N.Z. man helped them get it going. It certainly
has made a difference there are no more arguments
about money.*
My Dad says that he banks with the A.N.Z. because he likes
their friendly service. Mum and I agree with him; we
both have A.N.Z. Savings Accounts at the same bank. Isn't
that a good idea?
* Our free booklet, "Bank Accounts for Everyoneis now
available at all A.N.Z. Bank branches. Please ask for a copy .
A*N*Z
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED Cheque Accounts
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED Savings Accounts
ANZ3S9. 18SB. R‘
were not being asked to do
so in order to assist the earn-
ings of any h.-p. concern
There is no lack of demand
for h.-p. finance borrowers
are not difficult to find. The
graziers simply came up against
the difficulty that is general
throughout the Commonwealth
of finding finance within
the banking-system to supply
the requirements of everyone.
This tightness of credit has
been deliberately aimed at by
the central bank in its freezing
£340 million of the trading-
banks’ funds. There are some
arguments for an easing of this
policy now —and some easing,
as mentioned, has occurred —
but there should be no slack-
ening of credit-restriction that
would simply start-off an infla-
tionary spiral again.
Australia has achieved
a stability of costs and prices
that would not have been
thought possible four years ago.
Any increase in the credit-
supply should be matched by
availability of manpower and
materials for the development
of industries that are worth-
while and helpful in the objec-
tive of increasing national pro-
ductivity and lowering costs of
production.
More Uncertainty
T TNCERTAINTY is the key
word in the Australian
economy, even though the
underlying note is still one of
expansion and unsatisfied
capital-goods demand.
After a temporary recovery,
wool has dropped again at
Australian auctions, and the
effect of earlier low prices for
exported produce is becoming
apparent in the overseas
balance-of-payments.
In the first half of 1957-58
the export position, in spite of
lower prices, was stronger in
total than in the correspond-
ing half of the previous year,
and imports were fairly well
controlled. But the strength of
our exports is now tending to
peter-out, and the next two
or three months may show a
trend sharply varying from
that which prevailed before
Christmas.
Unemployment, after reach-
ing a peak of 74,775 in January,
dropped to 70,029 at the end
of February, which is a hopeful
sign, even though the total is
higher than at the same time
twelve months ago. Unemploy-
ment in Australia is still not
high, and the country is
virtually in a state of full
employment, even if not over-
full employment.
It is doubtful if productivity
as a whole has really suffered
much by unemployment of
2 p.c. of the national work-
force. Productivity per head
(away from drought-affected
rural areas) has been moving
up a little over the past year,
and industry generally should
be in a more efficient state
than we have seen it since the
war. Actual production
statistics vary, but there appear
to be at least as many increases
as decreases in production-
indexes.
Costs have tended to
stabilise over the past year,
but there is pressure now for
increases in wage-rates by a
number of trade-unions. There
is no indication whatever that
the country can afford higher
wages as a general thing;
though our productivity may
have been improving, it has by
no means improved to the point
where our secondary industries
generally are competitive with
those overseas, or to where
we are able to create capital
from our own resources on the
scale at which we so urgently
need it.
In the face of this economic
uncertainty and imbalance,
Australian sharemarkets remain
remarkably strong. Good-
quality industrial equities are
priced, as a rule, at figures
which show a low immediate
yield, and there is a wide dis-
parity between the rates of
interest offered on fixed-interest
unsecured notes by sound
industrial enterprises (8 p.c.
recently) and the yields in the
sharemarket on first - class
industrial equities (from 3 p.c.
to 4 p.c.). The long-term bond-
rate is 5 p.c.
In the face of all the cir-
cumstances, one wonders how
long present overall share-
market strength can be main-
tained. A great deal of the
support for front - rank
industrials is coming from
fixed-trusts and institutional
investors, which can afford to
wait longer for their rewards
than can the average private
investor.
John Fairfax, Ltd.
AN increase to p.c. in the
interim dividend by John
Fairfax, Ltd. (Sydney), holding-
co. for Sydney “Herald,” “Sun-
Herald,” “Sun,” Woman’s Day”
and other publications, took the
sharemarket by surprise, and
had the effect of lifting the £1
ords. in the sharemarket from
265. 6d. to 28s. 9d. Previous
year’s interim was at the rate
of 34- p.c. and final 4 p.c.,
making p.c. for the year. For
the current term a distribution
of at least 9 p.c. is indicated.
The board says that, although
costs have risen, revenue
showed an improvement for the
half-year to December 31
compared with the correspond-
ing period of 1956-57, and “a
satisfactory increase in profit
has been achieved. Prospects
for the remainder of the year
are said to be good.
The combined newspaper-
assets of John Fairfax and Sons
Pty., Ltd., and Associated
Newspapers, Ltd., appear to be
shaking-down satisfactorily at
the new address in Broadway.


INVEST IN
1
FOR SECURITY
exceed
Assets
£5O
000
000
Assets
£5O
exceed
000
000
Assets
£5O
)00
exceed
000
000
£5O
Assets
exceed
000
00G
000
000
Assets
exceed
£5O
000
001
£5O
00
000
000
000
£5O
000
000
£5O
000
000
£5O
000
000
£5O
000
000
£5O
000
000
£5O
000
000
£5O
000
000
£5O
000
000
£5O
exceed
000
000
exceed
£5O
000
000
£5O
exceed
000
000
PER ANNUM
FOR 6 YEARS
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
Other terms are availble from 3 months to 20 years. See I.A.C.’s Prospectus
for full details.
Australia’s Leading Hire Purchase Organisation,
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
GUARANTEES YOU: Fixed quarterly income free of exchange.
Principal paid in full on maturity.
Principal paid in full before maturity in
certain circumstances (See Prospectus).
Copies of the Prospectus are available from Members of Stock Exchanges, the 703
Branches of the AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED and . ..
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Established 2 8 years)
SYDNEY
ADELAIDE
BRISBANE
HOBART
Underwriting Brokers :
bn Potter & Co.,
Melbourne, Canberra & Sydney.
Trustee for the Debenture Stockholders :
The Perpetual Executors & Trustees
Association of Australia Limited.
D 47
Consolidation now appears to
be paying-off.
Uninformative Reports
[From 1,. owenj
REPORTS lacking in im-
portant details, relevant
to the exploration for oil in
Australia and the adjacent
Territories, have often been the
subject of deserved criticism.
The current Australasian
Petroleum Co. report, dealing
with that company’s operations
in n.-w. Papua, however, can
hardly merit its description as
“perhaps the worst example of
unsympathetic reporting we
have had from a company for
some time” given to it by one
of Sydney’s evening newspapers.
A.P.C. reports, as that
paper correctly remarks, “have
never been noted for their
loquacity.” It should be
remembered, though, that the
annoyance caused by such con-
ciseness has often been
remedied by the very informa-
tive commentaries—particularly
in annual statements issued
from time to time by Oil Search,
Ltd.
With reference to the report
complained of, it is obvious
that there was little which
could be added. In none of
these wells, during the month
covered by the report, has
water, oil or gas been struck ;
in none has casing been run or
cemented ; and in none do any
formation-tests appear to have
been carried-out. There is thus
little to report, apart from the
bare figures of drilling-progress,
except a description of the
stratigraphic column penetrated.
A.P.C. has rarely included
stratigraphical or other geo-
logical information in its reports,
which, in my opinion, is a pity
and could do no harm that
I can visualise. It is, perhaps,
rather late in the day to hope
that this fault may be remedied
Public companies should be
expected always to provide their
shareholders with the maximum
information possible without
jeopardy to their own interests.
As far as oil-companies
accepting the Commonwealth
drilling subsidy, the term
“shareholder” includes every
Australian taxpayer.
No Such Rum!
'T'HE following note of purity
has been received from
Ernest J. Yarrow, Sydney sec-
retary of Fairymead Sugar Co.,
Ltd., which has its headquarters
at Bundaberg (Q.):
Various publications and
pamphlets from time to time
associate Fairymead people with
the manufacture of rum. This is
not the case, as their mill has
operated since 1882 to the present
without manufacturing rum. Nor
have they sold its output of
molasses for this purpose.
Somehow Bundaberg has been
spoken of as producing nothing
but rum. This surely is due to
ignorance of its main industries,
such as sugar, dairying, pineapples,
timber and, last but not least,
heavy machinery, etc.
To which The Bulletin
which has a very keen nose for
rum, and claims to be able to
tell C.S.R. rum from Bunda-
berg rum merely by sniffing it
—can only add that never in
a long analytical association
with Fairymead has it ever
detected the slightest evidence
of rum —not even a compli-
mentary bottle at Christmas-
time. Certainly in the “Wild
Cat’s” review of the 1956 Fairy-
mead accounts the expression
“after keeping mum” was used,
but it meant just what it said ;
the third word wasn’t a mis-
print of “rum.”


“Get him into the cave alive, darling—then We can use him for central-heating !"


SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Moomba Madness
Approaching the Comedy
Theatre, Melbourne, at the
height of the Moomba madness,
the present commentator was
arrested by a sound like roll-
ing but strangely rythmical
thunder. At one and the same
time it seemed to be expressing
pleasure, pain, pride, indigna-
tion, hope and dejection and
there was even a quality of
counterpoint about it.
Concluding that a Melbourne
audience seized with the
Moomba madness was giving
vent to its emotions in a proper
Moomba manner, he entered
the theatre with considerable
expectations. He found to his
amazement that the sound was
coming not from the audience
but from the Spanish dancers,
or, more properly, Spanish
actors, who were expressing
their feelings with their feet.
He was astounded by their
virtuosity in this direction,
which could only have been
developed by a centuries-old
tradition.
The dancers were stating
mainly amorous propositions
with their nether extremities
just as clearly as a poet can
with words. These dark, hand-
some, slim-hipped drawn-in
young men in black Eton-
jackets and tight black trousers,
their maestro Luisillo and the
beautiful dark girls with their
whirling skirts and their intense
concentration on the business
in hand had nothing in common
with the Russian ballet which,
by comparison, seems com-
pletely sexless.
There was a sharp differenti-
ation between the sexes and, at
the same time, there was an
intellectual quality about thei r
foot-stamping, their finger-
cracking, their guitar-playing
and their singing which
differentiated them from the
negro. There seemed to be
many influences in it. After all,
the Moors seized and settled
Spain in the eighth century and
stayed there til! the eleventh,
introducing art and science far
in advance of the rest of
Europe, so they must have had
a big .finger in the pie, along
with the Christian ethic.
Luisillo seemed to combine
all these influences in his slight
frame and he exhibited them
marvellously in “El Ciego,” the
story of the blind man who is
befriended by a woman who
gets him his sight back. With
his sight back he loses the peace
of isolation and gets mixed-up
with other women. In the end
he prays to God to give him
back his blindness. This was
“Something to go with a pie .”
the most extraordinary per-
formance of a whole evening
of extraordinary dances.
Proceeding thence to the
“Herald” Open-air Art Show in
the Fitzroy Gardens was like
shifting one’s gaze from a
Gothic building to an amateur-
built henhouse. The amount of
skill, artistic and technical,
displayed in the 1132 works in
oil, pastel, watercolor, ink,
wood and wire wouldn’t add up
to a minute of Luisillo's
dancing or a yard of stonework
on an old Melbourne building.
The impression given by the
vast exhibition of incompetence
and egregious ambition is that
the professional painters had
better pull their socks up.
The pictures, painted by the
amateurs, who picked up a
brush for the first time last
week, appear just as good or
as bad as those of the profes-
sionals, the only difference
being that the amateurs don’t
spoil such large areas of canvas.
However, if the “Herald”
exhibition is taken as a demon-
stration of the Moomba spirit
of getting together and having
fun, it has certainly succeeded
in its objective.
Another manifestation of
the Moomba spirit was the
building of walls, with bricks
from building - sites, across
suburban streets by returning
merrymakers. It was all in the
spirit of fun and did no more
harm than the “Herald” art
show except to the police
patrol-car which accidentally
found one.
Half -a - million funmakers
imbued with the Moomba
spirit turned up for the grand
procession, the stars of which
were the Moomba Queen, Miss
Norma Jones, and Billo, the
Moomba Bunyip. A perform-
ance of “The Mikado” at the
Fitzroy Gardens and of
“Hiawatha” at the Olympic
Pool added fuel to the Moomba
madness. At the latter
massed choirs did their best to
give variety to the level line of
Coleridge Taylor’s music, and
a horse, and a fleet of Indian
canoes complete with Indian
belles, helped to relieve the
rhythmic monotony of Long-
fellow’s verses. Skilful naviga-
tion only just saved Minne-
haha’s bier from capsizing and
Miss Alwyn Smith from the
watery grave designed for her
by the poet.
At time of writing Australian
authors were preparing to fan
the flames with the biggest
display of Australian literature
in Australian history.
“The Chalk Garden”
There is a type of modern
play which is not content with
having a symbolic title, but
must actualise the symbol
as well. In “The Glass
Menagerie,” for example,
Laura not only lives a “glass-
menagerie” existence, but
plays with her glass animals
at the same time.
This having one’s symbol
and eating it over three acts
often leads to exciting theatre,
but there is a danger that
human development may fail
to correspond with facets of
the central symbol. “The
Chalk Garden,” wherein noth-
ing may flourish because the
soil is chalk, is a fitting
symbol for a household where
a couple of elderly barren
minds are engaged with the
rearing of a young, difficult
girl. It is only when the talk
moves from the comfortable
vagueness of the central idea
to minute prescription that the
play weakens. After all,
what human action within the
household is quite comparable
to the effects of horse-urine
(diluted) as a tonic for the
garden?
For the most part, though,
Enid Bagnold has worded her
play w.tn skill and compas-
sion. Less elaboration of the
flowers that cannot be grown
in chalk would have improved
her nihilistic bouquet, and
for all its alleged aridity, its
verbiage is an over-lusty crop
which a vigorous pruning
would have transformed from
merely good theatre to superb.
Many who went to the
theatre didn’t see “The Chalk
Garden” clearly at all. Dame
Sybil Thorndike was running
her counter-attraction of a
Chelsea-flower-show calibre.
A few showy Thorndikiana, a
few weeds of flagrant scene-
stealing, but flowers a-plenty
of genuine acting art, and
none finer than the lovely
transition from tragedy to
comedy as her grandchild
leaves the “chalk-garden”
home—a Chaplin in reverse,
and quite as memorable.
Patricia Kennedy’s long
association with radio seems
to have invested her stage
work with two qualities—a
certain physical immobility
and a repeated vocal emphasis,
as though every second word
of her script had been under-
scored.
Gorden Chater’s butler
stole the show whenever


THE ROYAL EASTER
HOW
28th March—Bth April, 1958
Don’t miss the greatest spectacle of
the year. At the 1958 Royal Easter
Show you will see our finest
stock on parade, cattle judging,
wood chopping, primary and
secondary industry exhibits and a
feature-packed programme of
special ring events, including
trotting.
Come to the 1958 Royal Easter
Show at the Showground, Sydney.
10 DAYS—B NIGHTS
ft
“Ruddigore”
Obviously the ghosts of his
dead ancestors who stepped
out of their portrait-frames at
Sydney Royal on Friday night
to have it out with the latest
of the long line of bold bad
Murgatroyd baronets deemed
that the rightful heir to the
compulsory - crime - a - day
legacy was indeed a criminal
of miserable accomplishment.
And certainly comedian
Grahame Clifford did nothing
to dispel the notion ; a more
convincingly unconvincing
baddie it would be impossible
to imagine, his air of inept
infamy sorting well with his
modest muster of misdeeds:
the forging of his own cheque
and diddling the income-tax
people (“It’s expected of
you!”)
Gilbert’s delightful fun,
served by as sparkling and
lilting a score as Sullivan
minted, was given a produc-
tion of style and polished
assurance. The entire cast
entered into the spirit of it
with freshness and spon-
taneity ; the comedy never
slackened, and the singing all
round was good, some of it
very good—for instance, Eric
Thornton’s resonant, forth-
right and clear “When the
Night Wind Howls” ; the duet
between Richard Watson and
Jane Martin (“I Was a Very
Abandoned Person”); the
rollicking “I Shipped, D’ye
See,” by Terence O’Donoghue ;
and Jane Martin’s “Cheerily
Carols the Lark.”
The show was just about
stolen by Jane Martin with as
clever a Mad Margaret as this
commentator has seen ; in the
second act, when, as the
respectably dull wife of Sir
Despard, she is called upon
to bottle-up her outbursts of
emotion, her comedy was
excellently timed.
Roslyn Dunbar was sweet-
ness personified, both as to
manner and voice, as Rose
Maybud. Richard Watson
was a heavily wicked Sir
Despard until he achieved a
belated probity, and his
enunciation both in singing
and speaking was a delight.
Eric Thornton was a com-
manding Sir Rupert; tenor
Terence O’Donoghue was a
manly Richard Dauntless, and
his dancing of a hornpipe
would have satisfied any old
’baccy - chewing shellback.
Evelyn Gardiner was a Dame
Hannah of benignity and sang
“There Was a Little Flower”
with some spirit.
❖ ♦>
Musica Viva
The M.V. Society opened the
year's activities at Sydney Town
Hall with a concert contributed
to by 14 resident musicians
(many of them members of the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra)
in various combinations
of instruments. Four con-
temporary composers showed
up very badly against two reps,
of the classical period.
The flute (Colin Evans),
clarinet (Gabor Reeves) and
oboe (lan Wilson) joined in a
Terzetto by Boccherini a
graceful example of medolic
invention touched by a blithe
spirit; and a Divertimento by
Malcolm Arnold, which seemed
better fitted to serve as back-
ground-music for a space-
fiction film than for the refine-
ments of the chamber-music.
The general poverty of the
literature for chamber-music
involving only brasses was
pointed-up sharply by two
modern or, rather, modern-
istic works: John Addi-
son’s Divertimento scored
for two trumpets, French-
horn and trombone, in
which the brief fanfare which
opened it was the only segment
with much pretence to musi-
cianship, and a Sonatine for
the same combination with the
tuba added. In the latter
melody and harmony are at a
discount, and the composer’s
dependence on the spectacular
climax is more than obvious.
The playing by John Robertson
(Ist trumpet), John Wood (2nd
trumpet), Clarence Mellor
(French-horn), Ronald Smart
(trombone) and Cliff Goodchild
(tuba) was exceptionally good.
The Shostakovich String
Quartet No. 1 in C major was
a tedious piece, the scherzo
described euphemistically on
the programme-notes as “elfin-
like in a way reminiscent of
Mendelssohn, but with a slight
touch of the grotesque.” Gro-
tesquerie there is, but
certainly nothing even remotely
resembling the German’s
exquisite, fairy music. The
Quartet, however, served to
emphasise that, in Maurice
Stead, Musica Vica has a leader
and first fiddle of exceptional
gifts. He and his collaborators
—Ronald Cragg (2nd violin),
David Jackson (viola), and
Gregory Elmaloglou (’cello)
—wrought a texture of highly
attractive tone.
The best playing of the night
went into Beethoven’s big
Septet in E Flat Major, in which
clarinet, bassoon and French-
horn joined violin, viola, ’cello
and double-bass. Although the
product of Beethoven’s first
period, this is a thoroughly
mature work. Once again
Maurice Stead shone in string
tone; Clarence Mellor's
French-horn was at its mel-
lowest in the hunting-call scene ;
fiddle and clarinet alternated
in lyrical beauty in the first
andante, and the whole work
was rounded-off beautifully
with a presto of irresistible
gaiety.
*> ❖
“The Seven Year Itch”
There’s always a risk in play-
ing stage-versions of plays that
have first been seen in the form
of highly glossy films, so it was
a pleasant surprise to see
Brisbane Arts Theatre make a
success of George Axelrod’s
“The Seven Year Itch,” in spite
of opposition from Marilyn
Monroe.
Imaginative direction from
Jack Hollingworth and some
of the best lighting seen on the
Brisbane stage accounted for
the quite tricky technical diffi-
culties. The comedy rested on
two characters with occasional
relief from other people in
short daydream sequences.
Earle Cross was the youngish
New Yorker who finds
bachelor temptations creeping
back while his wife is on vaca-
tion. Cross coped with the
American accent well enough
and balanced very neatly on the
horns of his dilemma.
Rosalind Seagrave was the
girl upstairs who started all the
trouble. Her Cupid’s darts took
the form of flowerpots dropped
from her terrace on to his, the
principle being apparently
that you either get your man
or brain him in the attempt.
Miss Seagrave gave the impres*
sion of a very subtle and beauti-
fully groomed cat playing with
a mouse.
After this Mr. Axelrod need
Dame Sybil permitted it, but
there was a curious feeling
that the sum-total of so many
successful moments did not
make a successful character-
study.
VAL VALLIS.


OPES
oj Every Type
and Size
Famous for many
years as Queensland’s
premier manufacturers
of envelopes we pro-
duce the well known—
“JAXUL” PATENT
CLEAR - FACE, WIN-
DOW Envelopes in
sizes 5f ins. x ins.,
6| x 3f and 9 ins. x
4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED En-
velopes in all sizes,
No. 1 to No. 8.
Plain or Printed
COMMERCIAL En -
velopes in all standard
sizes and qualities,
plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application
M
lockson &
O’Sullivan pty.Lt*.
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers <6 Printers
304-:i08 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO ALLEN FREDERICK RITCHIE late
of Maroubra.—TAKE NOTICE that
JOAN RITCHIE has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4317 of 1957 on the ground
of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 15th day of May 1958 and obtain
a copv of the Petition without charge
from CHARLES GRIFFITHS, Solicitor,
107-109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New
South Wales.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO ALPHONSE GIROUD late of Bowral.
—TAKE NOTICE that MAY GIROUD
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1941
of 1956 on the ground of desertion for
three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 15th day of May
1958 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from CHARLES
GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 107-109 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, New South Wales. —-J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar. __
TsTthe SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO DONALD JAMES PEARMAN late of
Dee Whv West. —TAKE NOTICE that
HILDA MAVIS PEARMAN has filed
Petition for Divorce No. 168 of 1958 on
the grounds of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or
excuse. If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 20th day of May 1958
and obtain a copt of the Petition free of
charge from JOHN D. NORTON, Soli-
citor, 393 George Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HERBERT CHARLES MANSER late
of 2 Jersey Street Marrickville. —TAKE
NOTICE that DAPHNE GRACE
MANSER has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 434 of 1958 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court,
King Street Sydney by the 20th May
1958 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. HUNT &
HUNT, Solicitors, of 15 Bligh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN. Registrar.
only write a play about whaf
happened to the vacationing
wife. Then the picture of this
happy-go-lucky society would
be complete.
D. J. M.
Films
“The Bridge on the River
Kwai”
As fine a war-film as the
British have produced, this
one develops its message on
the futility of war slowly and
subtly, though none-the-less
effectively, to the final ironic
touch when the British colonel
who, fanatically determined to
keep intact the bridge the
prisoners have built, treason-
ably attempts to prevent his
fellow - countrymen com-
mandos from blowing it up,
and, falling over dead, crashes
on to the plunger which sets
off the charge.
Alec Guinness is superb as
Colonel Nicholson, especially
in the early sequences in
“ Now , you behave yourself up there , Jimmy. Don't do
anything you Wouldn't do at home.”
which the battle of wills is
worked-out between him and
the Camp Commandant,
Colonel Saito. Torture failing
to break his spirit when he
refuses to sanction his officers
being put to manual work, the*
colonel is finally allowed to
have his point, the Jap com-
mander knowing that without
the Britisher’s co-operation his
bridge won’t be built within
the specified time and he will
be personally disgraced. The
gradual assertion of authority
until Nicholson is more-or-
less running the camp as he
wants it, with the Jap almost
a supernumerary, is very skil-
fully depicted.
Director David Lean has
skilfully integrated the bridge-
building sequences with those
of the operations of the com-
mando-unit, under Jack
Hawkins, which sets out to
destroy the bridge.
Everything about the film
rings true, even the dementia
which grips the jingoistic
British colonel whose pride in*
the achievement of his troops
blinds him to the fact that he
is aiding the enemy. The
scenery is magnificent and the
suspense in the final stages
almost painfully intense.
William Holden contributes
a dash of . virility as an
American Navy man who, the
sole survivor' of an escape-
attempt from the camp, returns
with the commandos.
At Sydney Lyceum.
“La Strada”
An Italian film about a girl,
simple to the edge of idiocy,
who is taken as assistant by an
itinerant showman, a “strong-
man,” and raped, beaten and
generally mistreated by him and
yet follows him with the blind
devotion of an animal.
How so much sordidness
makes into such an exquisite
film is the secret of director
Frederick Fellini and his wife,
Giulietta Masina, who plays the
girl with breathtaking sensi-
tivity. Anthony Quinn and
Richard Basehart are also in it,
and both excellent.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sweet Smell of Success”
Calling all newspaper-
columnists !
Got a teenage sister? Do
you keep her in mink and other
luxury? Careful she doesn’t
fall for a geetar-player in a
night - club orchestra. That
could rile you so much you
might force one of your
hangers-on to “smear” the
young man with a defamatory
item in someone else’s column
so that your nose is clean. If
that’s not enough he might also
plant reefers in the young
feller’s pocket and tip off a
cop who’s also one of your
hirelings. And then the whole
thing might blow up in your
face, your kid sister will give
you the air and you’ll be left
brooding in myopic megalo-
mania.
So be warned, brothers,
about what this columnising can
lead to —that, at least, seems
to be the moral of “Sweet
Smell of Success” at Sydney
Mayfair. If you can’t give up
now, it’s probably got you by
the throat.
*X* *X*
“Until They Sail”
The tenuous boy-meets-girl
theme is blown -up into
poisoned-pup proportions in
this story about the impact of
U.S. Marines on the Dominion's
girls. It treats especially with
a family of four girls, the eldest
of whom (Joan Fontaine)
abandons her disapproval of
her sisters’ friendships with the
Yanks when she herself is due
for illegitimate motherhood. It
is all much ado about very little,
made tolerable only by a neat
performance by Jean Simmons.
At Sydney Liberty.


The WILD CAL
COLUMN
I.C.LA.N.Z., Ltd.
THE sharemarket’s interest in favored
front-rank equity scrip shows no
signs of weakening, despite the abnor-
mally low yields available from this class
of investment. Fully-paid £1 ords. in
I.CJ.A.N.Z., Ltd., changed hands at
58s. last week (compared with 465. 6d.
a year ago) to return a meagre £3 2s. Id.
p.c. fromua 9 p.c. distribution. The con-
tribs., at present paid to 13s. 4d., are
fetching around 485., a final call of 6s. Bd.
capital and Is. Bd. premium being due for
payment on the first of next month.
One of the largest industrial under-
takings in Australia, I.CJ.A.N.Z. has the
financial strength and earning-potential
needed to preserve the “leader” status
accorded to its £1 ords., enjoying as it
does a fat share of the Australian and
N.Z. trade in heavy chemicals and the
support of the almost world-wide 1.C.1.
organisation.
The post-war growth of secondary
industries has boosted demand for many
of the products handled by the
I.CJ.A.N.Z. group, while the development
of new products and new applications for
established lines has widened the selling-
field, group-turnover jumping from £16.2
million in 1949-50 to almost £3B million
during the year to September 30 last.
Formed as a subsidiary of Imperial
Chemical Industries, Ltd. (U.K.) in 1928,
the co. first approached the investing
public, with 1,000,000 £1 5 p.c. prefs.,
10 years later, but the ord. scrip was not
made available until 1950, when 1,006,505
ords. were offered at a premium of
2s. 6d.
Two subsequent issues, 35-for-100 at
a premium of 2s. 6d. in 1952 and two-
for-five at a ss. premium early last term,
have added £8,010,000 to issued capital
(now £18,010,000), another £6,000,000
being borrowed between 1950 and 1952
on 4 and 4| p.c. 15-20 year mortgage-
debentures. A comfortable margin has
been maintained between earnings and
dividends, the ord. div.-rate, raised from
7 p.c. to 8 p.c. in 1954, reaching the
present 9 p.c. level in 1955. Last term’s
earnings were sufficient to cover the pref.
div. and 9 p.c. on ord. capital, as it will
stand after payment of next month’s
final call, with £790,396 to spare.
The parent co., with its seven Aus-
tralian and four N.Z. subsidiaries,
markets a host of industrial and agricul-
tural chemicals as well as explosives,
alkalis, plastics, drugs, dyes, slide-
fasteners, paints, coated fabrics and
synthetic fibres, products turned-out at
factories in Victoria, N.S.W. and S.A.
accounting for approximately 75 p.c. of
total turnover.
There was a well-sustained demand for
most manufactured and imported lines
last term, although polyvinyl-chloride
(PVC) produced at the Botany (N.S.W.)
plant met with “severe competition” from
imported products. Competition was
keener in other fields, too, and adverse
weather affected sales of some agricul-
tural chemicals, group-turnover, up
£1,248,000 (or 3.4 p.c.) at £37,971,000,
advancing at a much slower rate than in
the previous term, when a 13.2 p.c.
increase was recorded. A record output
from the alkali-works at Osborne (S.A.),
a 100 p.c. increase in sales of polythene
and the best showing yet by the N.Z.
offshoot, all helped to strengthen turn-
over, the higher figure resulting “for the
most part” from a greater volume of
business.
However, costs and expenses appear to
have swallowed up all the additional
income, pre-tax earnings shrinking by
£24,429, to leave lower provisions for
taxation (down £195,185 at £1,785,550)
and depreciation (down £86,681 at
£1,571,425) mainly responsible for the
£206,803 improvement in net profit,
reckoned by the board at £2,371,296:
, —Dividends —\
Pref. Re-
Sept., Profit.* 5 p.c. , Ord. , serves.f
£ £ £ £ £
Reserve adjustments, £736,357 net 2,870,229
Added intangibles, £56,482 .. 2,813,747
’53..1,229,048 50,000 7 p.c. = 705,797 3,286,90 S
From deferred tax res., £46,500 4,077,525
Unexplained reduction, £51,000 net 3,282,998
’54. .1,722,777 50,000 8 p.c. = 924,750 4,031,025
From deferred tax res., £46,500 4,077,525
Less added intangibles, £189,899 3,849,010
Unexplained addition, £137,923 .. 3,986,933
’65. .2,128,003 50,000 9 p.e.-1,093,500 4,971,436
From deferred tax reserves, £43,500 5,014,936
Surplus, liquidation subsidiaries,
£14,896 5,029,832
Reduction intangibles, £5562 .. 5,035.394
Sinking-fund income, £4277 .. 5,039,671
Unexplained addition, £374,131 . . 5,413,802
’ajj. .2,164,493 50,000 9 p.c. =1,093,500 6,434,795
Share-premiums, £682,523 . . 7,117,318
From deferred tax-prov., £41,000 7,158,318
Sinking-fund income, £5073 ~ 7,163,391
Share-issue expenses w/offi, £7326 7,156,065
To prov. long-service leave, £38,000 7,118,065
Unexplained reduction, net, £50,004 7,068,061
Capita) profits, etc., £18,740 .. 7,086,801
Less increase intangibles, £25,586 7,061,215
’57..2,371,296 50,000 9 p.c. =1,166,400 8,216,111
outsider!' proportion, f Deducting
intangibles (now £1,011,655).
Steady at 9 p.c., the ord. div. was all but
covered twice by the earnings, which,
after setting aside £50,000 for pref. share-
holders, equalled 17.9 p.c. on average
ord. capital compared with 17.3, 17.1,
14.4 and 11.6 p.c. in the four years back
to 1953.
The new £2i-million polythene plant
(Botany, N.S.W.) went into production
last December, and work on extensions
designed to double its capacity (at a cost
of £1 million) has since been commenced.
Other major projects completed, or close
to completion, by the end of the term
included a £ 1-million office-block in
Sydney and a £ 1.75-million plant at
Clayton (Vic.) for the 70 p.c.-owned
subsidiary B.A.L.M. Paints Pty. Group-
earnings have yet to receive the full bene-
fit of these and other developments.
Although expenditure on fixed assets
has raised their net book-value from
£3.7 million to £19.7 million over the
last decade (capital-expenditure last term
running- out at approximately £6.3
million), further substantial sums are to
be spent on additions to the alkali-works,
modernisation of the Deer Park (Vic.)
acid-plant, the establishment of an
explosives factory at Bass Point (N.S.W.)
and extensions to the phthalic-anhydride
plant operated by Newcastle Chemical
Co. Pty. (owned equally with 8.H.P.).
Already a feature of Melbourne’s skyline,
the parent co.’s new 18-story head-office
is expected to be ready for occupation
next October.
The £2,730,092 of fresh share-capital
gathered in last term, along with retained
earnings and £682,523 of share-premiums,
helped to keep finances in good shape
over the year, and, despite the size of the
capital-outlay, the surplus of current
assets over current liabilities slipped by
only £54,138 to £12,075,241:
I.CJ.A.N.Z. axd Subsidiaries.
1955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital . . £1:1.150,000 £13,150,000 £15,880,092
Reserves ~. 5,963,067 7,420,864 9,227,766
Deßenturcs .. 6,000,000 6,000,000 6,000,000
Outside interests 954,234 1,333,754 1,406,977
Overdraft .. 679,672 2,963,620 2,014,108
Creditors, etc. 5,670,134 5,002.451 5,832,37*
Taxation, etc.* 3,927,239 3,975,722 4,174,920
Final div. . . 676,583 677,278 721,138
£37,020,929 £40,523,689 £45,257,368
Freeholds, plant,
etc. .. 13,567,600 14,996,229 19,731,572
Stocks.. .. 12,520,341 13,956,507 14,408,488
Debtors . . 6,404,290 7,915,821 7,688,214
Shares, etc. .. 855,934 956,001 1,028,574
Cash, bonds . . 2,681,133 ' 1,713,062 1,388,865
Intangibles .. 991,631 986,069 1,011,056
£37,020,929 £40,523,689 £45,257,368
* Includes prov. deferred repairs, contingencies, etc.
Calls on the contribs. in the current term
should bring in a total of £2,662,385
(£2,129,908 capital and £532,477
premiums), lifting the share-premium
reserve to £1,734,563 or a little over 10
p.c. of ord. capital.
At a time when Australian cos. are
being urged to allocate larger sums for
research, it is interesting to note that
“about 11 p.c.” of the I.CJ.A.N.Z. staff
are engaged on research and develop-
mental work, while the establishment of
research-stations and laboratories has
involved the co. in a capital-expenditure
of over £1 million within the last three
or four years.
Hicks Atkinson, Ltd.
npHE recent history of this retailing and
manufacturing group exemplifies the
real, if imponderable, value of vigorous
and farsighted business enterprise. Since
dynamic Kurt Geiger took the helm as
managing-director following the merger
in May, 1955, of Hicks and Geiger
Holdings, he has produced a doubling of
the efficiency of invested capital, despite
the stress and strain imposed by the
very thoroughgoing face-lift and expan-
sion which is currently transforming
Hicks into Melbourne’s most modernistic
retail-chain.
Certainly, investors who bought into
Hicks at par when the £1 shares appeared
on the market in 1948 have had no
cause to regret the merger. A trading
loss of £18,821 in the 1952 term tumbled
the scrip to a market “low” of 9s. 6d.;
but matters gradually improved when
Hicks began to spread its wings the
following year and the shares —all ords.
—have now recovered to 385., at which


price yield would be £6 11s. 7d. p.c. from
a continued p.c. dividend.
Meanwhile, shareholders have also
received the benefit of a one-for-five par
issue in October last; and last week the
board announced a note-issue, to provide
funds for Hicks’ pell-mell expansion.
The 7 p.c. convertible unsecured notes
of £1 each will be offered to shareholders
at par in the proportion of one note for
two shares held on March 21, and will
be convertible as to 10s. per £1 note into
two f.-p. ss. ordinary shares at par on
July 31, 1962; the remaining 10s. is
convertible similarly on July 31, 1964.
During their currency, the notes will
rank with the ords. in any new issues.
Underwriters are lan Potter and Co.
Taking the October issue into con-
sideration, net tangible assets total 265. sd.
for each £1 of equity-capital on con-
solidated book-values at July 31 last.
Healthy trading - gains have shown
that the directorate hasn’t overestimated
the co.’s potential. Net consolidated
turnover improved last year by £267,137
to £1,852,156, and group net profit by
£20,264 to £107,969, calculated after
adjusting for intangibles written-off,
£5777, depreciation and amortisation
allowance, £14,312 (up £2711) and a
co.-tax provision which at £49,633 (up
£1133) would be well below, normal at
current rates, but is no doubt adequate
if all background information were
available:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re-
July Loss. —Dividends——serves. Deficit.*
31, £ £ £ £
1952. . 18,821
Investments written down, £650 .. 8,047
Profit. Reserves.*
1953.. 22,888 5 p.c. = 12,300 f 10,588 2,541
Tax overprouided, £3457 .. .. 5,998
To staff fund, £3500 .. .. .. 2,498
To revaluation reserves, £76,165 .. 78,663
1954.. 28,824 8 p.c. = 19,680 9,144 87,807
Loss sale assets, £l6B .. .. .. 87,639
Diff. book and par values shares sub-
sid., £15,515 72,124
1955.. 27,573 9 p.c. = 38,722 60,975
Tax overprovided, £2130 .. .. 63,105
Loss sale assets, £562 . . . . 62,543
1956.. 87,705 p.c. = 62,883 24,822 87,365
Profit sale assets, £490 . . . . 87,855
Tax overprovided, £942 .. .. 88,797
Profit sale shares subsid., etc., £9263 98,060
To revaluation reserves, £86,873 .. 184,933
1957. .107,9691 121 p.c. = 69,725 38,244 223,177
* After deducting intangibles, £4282 at July 31,
1957. f £4526 ex tax-paid profits reserve.
1 Includes net profit of Forster Carpet Co. for 13
months to July 31, 1957.
Repeated for the second time in suc-
cession, the 12| p.c. dividend absorbed
£69,725, leaving £38,244 as undistributed
profits to stiffen reserves, another £86,873
being brought to light by a revaluation
of certain freeholds. A further addition
came from the sale of a small Degraves
Street shoe-retailing subsidiary, with an
excess over book-value of £9063.
(Since 1952, annual earning-rates on
average ordinary capital, calculated on
divs. paid, have increased spectacularly
—nil (1952), 9.3 p.c., 11.7 p.c., 6.4 p.c.
(the Geiger transaction took place in
May, 1955, but the new shares ranked
for the 6 p.c. final), 17.4 p.c. and 19.3
p.c. (1957).
As the oldest store in Melbourne,
Hicks Atkinson can trace its pedigree
back to 1848, when its progenitor was
first set-up as a drapery-and-general out-
fitting establishment. Until 1953, trading
was on a restricted basis, with the accent
on elegance and carpet-slippers. Then
1953 saw the beginning of a rejuvena-
tion, with branches being established in
the Melbourne banlieues, Bentleigh,
Balwyn and Prahran.
Next year, the old-established Launces-
ton (Tas.) retail and fashion business of
J. W. Pepper and Son was acquired,
modernised and restyled Hicks Atkinson
(Tasmania) Pty., consideration for the
deal being £55,500, satisfied in greater
part by the issue of 54,725 shares.
Acquired for £195,000, including
194,275 shares, Geiger Holdings, Ltd., a
wholly-owned subsidiary, itself operates
four offshoots, primarily manufacturers
or distributors of ladies’ shoes —K. O
Geiger Pty., Mascot Shoes Pty., Turner
Shoes Pty. and K. O. Turner Pty.
More recently, two newcomers have
linked-up with the organisation, Rain-
wear, Ltd., manufacturer of ladies’
apparel (in 1956), and Forster Carpet Co.
Pty. (last term), the deals requiring
further issues of 37,800 and 50,000 shares
respectively as part-payment.
The balance - sheet shows the co.’s
remarkable growth last term, and indi-
cates the reason for the coming note-
issue :
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
' 1955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £495,000 £532,800 £582,800
Reserves . . .. 85,284 97,424 227,459
Mortgage . . .. 225,000 221,000 242,950
Overdraft .. .. 5,499 16,231 197,824
Outstanding liability
on freeholds ~
Creditors . . . . 76,137 54,446 102,429
Staff funds .. 3,500 5,760 4,735
Tax .. .. 43,000 48,500 48,500
Final dividend .. 29,700 40,608 36,425
£963,120 £1,016,769 £1,941,997
Freeholds .. .. 374,628 402,060 1,128,033
Leaseholds . . 963 1,840 24,269
Fittings, vehicles. . 108,074 116,116 153,572
Plant . . . . 14,657 17,074 19,388
Stocks .. .. 349,098 367,975 502,149
Debtors .. .. 90,439 100,107 109,008
Cash .. .. 952 1,538 1,296
Intangibles .. 24,309 10,059 4,282
£963,120 £1,016,769 £1,941,997
Consolidated accounts at July 31 last
show a rise of £925,470 in total assets,
nearly doubling the previous year’s
figure. Most of the increase was in.
freeholds, which were up by £725,973
to £1,128,033, although current assets
were £143,075 higher. Additional
finance took the form mainly of a
further £181,835 overdraft and an out-
standing liability of £498,875 in connec-
tion with the purchase of freeholds.
Geiger’s sights are set high ; after miss-
ing-out in his bid for Georges, Ltd., in
1956, he last term snapped-up Danks’
six-story building in Bourke Street for
£300,000 and Aynsley Building in Little
Collins Street for £130,000, to be con-
nected underground with Hicks’ present
building in Collins Street. Also in
Bourke Street, the freehold of the
Saracen’s Head was acquired. By agree-
ment with Stanhill Holdings, a large
frontage of Scott’s Hotel in Collins Street
will be leased from next May, and
further out, in Toorak’s village, a garage
property was bought for £40,000, which
will ultimately be converted into a
modern department-store. These, along
with smaller acquisitions, are all receiv-
ing the benefit of the Geiger touch,
imaginative and Continental.
Moran and Cato, Ltd.
/CONTROLLING one of the largest
and most successful retail-grocery
chains in Australia, the long-established
Moran and Cato, Ltd., is in a better posi-
tion than many of its smaller colleagues
to meet the intense competition —often
in the form of price-cutting —now offered
by several of the large department-
stores and retail organisations.
Engaged in both the manufacture and
wholesale of grocery-lines, Moran and
Cato is chiefly concerned with the retail
trade, operating 190 grocery-stores in
Victoria, N.S.W., South Australia and
Tasmania. Many of these units (64, at
the end of 1957) are conducted on self-
service principles, and this method of
trading is being introduced in other stores
“as rapidly as possible.” (The co. doesn’t
trade in Queensland, where Woolworths
plans to increase its stake in the grocery
and allied fields by the purchase of B.C.C.
Holding Co., Ltd.)
The public first obtained a share-
interest in the co. 74 years after the
foundation of the business, when 223,600
10s. ords. were offered, at a 100 p.c.
premium, in 1950. The share-capital of
three associated cos. was acquired in the
same year by the issue of scrip to a face-
value of £463,000, the transaction leav-
ing the parent co. with a paid capital of
£1,000,000, all in f.-p. 10s. ords. A well-
covered 10 p.c. div. has been sent out in
each of the last seven years.
Competition kept margins slim last
term (to July 27, 1957), but the extension
of self-service trading to a further 31
stores contributed to a “substantial”
increase in turnover, and the drift in
earnings, evident over the four preceding
terms, was brought to a halt.
Net profit, £15,426 stronger at
£200,859, was calculated after providing
£134,990 (down £11,010) for taxation and
£57,631 (up £11,308) for depreciation:—-
July To lie- Re-
-31. Profit. , Dividends— N serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
Stock price adjustment provision,
£30.000 313,819
Profit sale fixed assets, £10,351 .. 324-,170
Tax underprovided, £229 .. .. 323,941
1952.. 231,590 10 p.c. = 100,000 131,596 455,537
Profit sale fixed assets, £11,570 . . 467,107
Tax underprovided, £3788 .. .. 463,319
1953.. 226,831 10 p.c. = 100,000 126,831 590,150
Profit sale fixed assets, £10,481 .. 600,631
1954.. 205,794 10 p.c. = 100,000 105,794 706,425
Profit sale fixed assets, £4282 .. 710,707
1955.. 204,342 10 p.c. =IOO,OOO 104,342 815,049
Profit sale assets, £20,588 .. . . 835,637
1956.. . 185,433 10 p.c. =IOO,OOO 85,433 921,070
Tax overprovided, £570 .. .. 921,640
Profit sale assets, £37,396 ~ . . 959,036
1957.. 200,859 10 p.c.=100,000 100,859 1,059,895
* Subject to intangibles, £76,669 at 27/7/’57.
The 10 p.c. div. absorbed only half of the
bigger profit, which represented a return
of 20.1 p.c. on share-capital, compared
with 18.5, 20.4, 20.5 and 22.6 p.c. in the
four years back to 1953. Capital-profits,
arising from the sale of fixed assets, have
totalled £57,984 over the last two years,
£37,396 coming from this source last
term.
Several unprofitable stores have been
closed since the end of the 1955 term,
but the co. has continued to establish new
branches in country and suburban centres,
and, with the modernisation of existing
premises helping to swell the total, the
book-value of freeholds (a mixture of
cost and valuation) has increased by


H \S \
RUPTURE
BI T HK
WEARS A
NBO-
RARRERB
No Pads —
No Springs
The NSO - BAB-
rere acts like
a hand when
placed flat upon
the orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, control
your hernia with comfort and
security. It cannot be displaced by
violent movement t and haa proved
completely luccesaful by all who
have tried it.
H'rt'fe today for Free Literature
fiarrere OlKtrihntlon Company
Dept. 3i, 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Invest in a well-established
Manufacturing Company
FERRIS INDUSTRIES
LIMITED
(Paid-up Capital £247,500)
MAIN TRADING SUBSIDIARY
FERRIS BROS. PTY. LTD.
will be pleased to accept
SHORT TERM DEPOSITS
7
2
per annum for Jkm YEARS
70/ 1
/O per annum for I YEAR
6% per annum for Q MONTHS
10'S
Interest Payable
l Yearly
Additional working capi-
tal is required to finance
the manufacture of New
Ferris Television and Car
Radio Receivers, Channel
Master Television Aerials
and component parts.
For further details and form of application phone,
write or send coupon.
To Secretary, Ferris Industries Ltd.,
752 Pittwater Road, Brookvale, N.S.W. XF0221.
Please send me details ol Short Term Deposits
NAME - - • -
ADDRESS ~ -
B 193
more than a third over the
last two terms. The installa-
tion of new equipment, includ-
ing refrigerator-units for the
storage of frozen food, has
also involved a substantial
capital-outlay, last term’s
expenditure on plant and fit-
tings exceeding £IBO,OOO.
The 10 p.c. div.-rate has left
a high proportion of the earn-
ings available for reinvestment
in the business, reserves
(subject to £76,669 of
intangibles) reaching the
£1,000,000 mark during the
year:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £1,000,000 £1,000,000
Reserves . . 921,070 1,059,895
Overdraft .. 138,065 228,405
Creditors, etc. ~ 352,483 499,372
Deposits .-. 23,3X1 63,989
Prov. long-service
leave .. 62,487 58,218
Tax provision . . 152,793 139,331
Dividend .. 100,000 100,000
£2,750,209 £3,149,210
Freeholds .. 834,115 1,063,257
Plant .. .. 237,374 363,363
Shares other cos. 678 678
Stocks . . . . 1,167,468 1,257,955
Debtors, etc. .. 380.366 331,000
Cash, bonds . . 53,539 56,288
Intangibles . . 76,669 76,669
£2,750,209 £3,149,210
To assist in financing the
capital - expenditure and a
£90,487 increase in stocks, the
co. went to the bank Tor an
additional £90,340, borrowed
a further £40,678 from
depositors and finished the
term owing creditors an extra
£146,889, working-capital slip-
ping by £216,306 to £555,928.
The cash-and-carry aspect of
self-service would probably
account for a large part of the
£49,366 reduction in book-
debts.
Seeing the possibility of
future gains, the sharemarket
prices the f.-p. 10s. stock-units
at 235. to return a modest
£4 6s. lid. p.c. from a 10 p.c.
distribution. Net tangible
asset backing at July 27 last
was 19s. lOd.
Wilcox Mofflin, Ltd.
variations in the
profits won by this 40-
year-old wool-, hide- and skin-
merchant can be expected as a
sequel to fluctuation in wool-
values, changes in trading tech-
niques, along with the develop-
ment of manufacturing and pro-
cessing interests, have given
earnings a degree of stability
unknown in the co.’s early and
less-fortunate years.
The biggest exporter of
sheepskins in Australia, Wilcox
Mofflin owns fellmongering
and wool-scouring plants in
N. S. Wales and Westralia and
a large tannery near Sydney.
Other divisions of the co. are
engaged in the cultivation and
disiribution of farm-produce
and seeds and the manufacture
of veterinary products, the prin-
cipal subsidiary, Govan In-
dustries Pty., turning-out agri-
cultural machinery and imple-
ments.
Paid capital, all in ords.,
reached its present total
(£550,000) in 1950, following a
one-for-three par issue. Steady
at 8 p.c. for the last five years,
the div.-rate has averaged 9.1
p.c. over the past decade.
Despite a disparity between
the local and export prices for
sheepskins and hides, export-
trade was “fully maintained”
during the greater part of the
year to June 30 last. Other
sections of the business also
showed satisfactory results,
both turnover and gross earn-
ings rising above the level
reached in the previous term.
However, after covering higher
operating - expenses (particu-
larly wages and land-tax) and a
larger provision for depreci-
ation (up £7822 at £50,294) net
profit dropped back by £4656
to £63,418:
To Re- Re-
Jne., Prft. f —Dividends--, serves, serves.
£ P-c. £ £ £
’5l. .71,091 10 = 55,000 16,091 219,149
■52..40,123 5 = 27,500 12,023 232,072
’53-59,255 2 = 44,000 15,255 247,327
’54..60,536 8 = 44,000 16,536 263,863
’55..64,315 8 = 44,000 20,315 284,178
’56..68,074 8 = 44,000 24,074 308,252
'57..63,418 8 = 44,000 19,418 327,670
Including the earnings of sub-
sidiary cos. only to the extent
of divs. received, the lower
profit equalled 11.5 p.c. on
share-capital as against 12.4,
11.7, 11 and 10.7 p.c. back to
1953.
Goods sold to overseas
buyers, running into “several
million pounds,” are regarded
as stock until shipped and paid-
for, against letters-of-credit, the
bank providing the funds
needed to finance this type of
transaction. As a result, stocks
and overdraft are, by far, the
largest items in the balance-
sheet, a £103,811 increase in the
stock-figure last term being
reflected by a similar
(£103,572) increase in the over-
draft :
1956. 1957.
Paid capital £550,000 £ 550,000
Reserves .. 308,252 327,670
Overdraft .. 1,008,478 1,112,050
Creditors, etc. .. 473,865 468,667
Suspense a/e . . 4,195 4,102
Final div. .. 22,000 22,000
£2,366,790 £2,474,489
Freehold, etc. . . 412,112 412,429
Plant .. .. 327,183 327,060
Shares subsidiary 12,976 18,699
Shares other cos. 19,749 19,749
Stock, etc. . . 1,280,445 1,384,256
Debtors .. .. 304,690 309,500
Cash .. .. 2,592 2,790
£2,366,790 £2,474,489
The replacement-cost of free-
holds, shown in the accounts at
a conservative £412,409, is
estimated at over £1,000,000,
the board regarding “these
assets as a basis.of finance for
long-term mortgages if, and
when, required.”
An additional £5723 was
invested in subsidiary cos.
during the year, most of this
amount going into scrip in the
partly-owned Govan Industries.
“Continually falling markets”
and unsettled trading conditions
overseas have taken a lot of the
profit out of operations in the


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO RONALD JOSEPH SHEPHERD
late of 16 George Street Woy Woy.—
TAKE NOTICE that MAVIS IRENE
SHEPHERD has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4318 of 1957 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse for three years and upwards and
is asking for the exercise of the Court’s
discretion under S. 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If you
wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry.
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 20th May 1958 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. HUNT & HUNT, of 15 Bligh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOD6HAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO INA HELEN MARGARET RE Y -
NOLDS late of 46 Power Street Isling-
ton.—TAKE NOTICE that THOMAS
MAURICE REYNOLDS has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 4002 of 1957 on the
ground of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse and
is asking that the Court exercise its dis-
cretion in his favor under Section 19
(2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1899 If you wish to defend you may
file an aj pea ranee in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 20th of May 1958 and obtain
a copv of the Petition without charge
from LESLIE RUNDLE, 66 King Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
current term, and bids for the
f.-p. ss. ords. had slipped to
4s. 6d. prior to the announce-
ment, last week, that the co.
would not pay an interim div.
Net tangible backing (book-
values) was 7s. lid. at June 30
last.
Consolidated Metal
Products, Ltd.
'T'RADING in a falling lead-
-*■ market during the second
half of the term, Consolidated
Metal Products, Ltd., ended the
year to June 30 last with net
earnings down by 23 p.c., higher
costs as well as declining lead-
prices cutting into profit-
margins.
Consolidated Metal, through
two of its seven wholly-owned
subsidiaries, is interested in the
reclamation, smelting and
refining of scrap-lead, the well-
integrated group utilising the
raw material thus produced in
the manufacture of lead-based
alloys, lead-oxide and com-
ponent parts (including battery-
plates) for use in the construc-
tion of storage-batteries. Fac-
tories in Sydney, Melbourne
and Brisbane supply Australian
and export-markets, the bulk
of the output being sold within
Australia.
The group’s connections with
the battery-trade date back to
1934, when Phoenix Chemical
Co. Pty. and Battery Equipment
Supply Co. Pty. set-up business
in Sydney as manufacturers of
lead-oxide and battery-plates
respectively. Manufacturing
activities later spread to Vic-
toria, involving the formation
of Lead Products Pfy. in 1947
and Lead Refineries Pty. in
1950, while the smelting- and
refining-business of C. J. and
W, F. Doring (Sydney) was
acquired in 1951.
Formed as a holding-co. for
the group, Consolidated Metal
had a paid capital of £350,000
(all in ords.) when its f.-p. 10s.
shares were first listed, in 1951,
par issues in 1955 (one-for-
seven) and 1957 (one-for-eight)
raising the total to £450,000 by
the end of last term.
The financial structure —and
the earning-power of share-
capital—have been strength-
ened by the board’s div.-policy,
which has left a high proportion
of the co.’s earnings available
for reinvestment in the business
and, although the div.-rate was
lifted from 8 p.c. to 12} p.c.
over the four years to 1956,
divs. have taken less than 50
p.c of net profit in all but two
of the co.’s seven years.
Turnover (undisclosed) in-
creased in both volume and
value last term, but higher
costs reduced earnings in the
first half of the year, while the
subsequent slump in lead
prices (particularly severe in the
last two months of the term)
affected stock-values and
trading results, net profit slip-
ping by £26,979 to £90,521 after
providing a much smaller sum
(£49,731, down £23,771) for
taxation, £25,860 (down £772)
for depreciation and allowing
for the “fall in the value of
trading-stocks”:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Re-
Jne. Profit. y Dividend x serves.*
30 £ £ £
Capital profit, £lO,OBO .. - 39,046
W/off intangibles, £21,409 16.057
’52.. 50,093 8 p.c. = 28,000 38,150
Share premiums res. subsid.
capitalised, £2250 .. 35,900
W/off intangibles, £12,731 23,169
’53.. 65,122 9 p.c. , = 31,500 56,791
Surplus sale shares, £15,612 72,403
From contingency pro-
vision, £2OOO .. .. 74,403
W/off intangibles, £37,250 37,153
’54..108,250 10 p.c.- 35,000 110,403
Profit sale shares, £397 . . 110,800
’55..117,438 11J p.c. = 40,938 187,300
Profit sale assets, £5063 . . 192,363
’56..117,500 121 p.c. = 50,000 259,863
Intangibles w/off, £69,291.. 190,572
Unexplained reduction, £322 190,250
Profit sale assets, £6OO . . 190,850
’57.. 90,521 121 p.c. = 50,521 230,850
* Subject to intangibles, written-off
30/6/’57.
The 12} p.c. div.-rate looks safe
enough, for, even at the lower
figure, net profit was still worth
a pleasing 22.4 p.c. on average
paid capital (against an average
of 30.9 p.c. in the three pre-
ceding terms), or 20 p.c. on
capital as it stood at the end
of the term.
Shareholders were asked to
put-up a further £50,000 last
May, and the receipt of this
money, late in the term, left
the co. in a strong liquid posi-
tion, outside liabilities, includ-
ing provision for final div.,
amounting to 7s. lOd. for each
£ of shareholders’ funds,
compared with 10s. 2d. at the
close of the preceding year:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1955. 1956. 1957.
£>£,£>
Paid capital.. 400,000 400,000 450,000
Reserves . . 187,300 259,863 230,850
Overdraft .. -- 7,668
Creditors . . 141,643 193,000 190.070
Tax provision 59,615 74,282 51,636
Final div. . . 23,438 25,000 25,521
811,996 959,813 948,077
Freehold . . 127,070 185,352 198,015
Plant, machinery,
etc. . . 114,455 124,849 131,172
Shares . . 62,264 60.659 65,853
Stock . . 252,140 410,255 232,470
Debtors, etc. 103,070 109,407 194,006
Cash . . . . 83,706 126,561
Intangibles .. 69,291 >69,291
811,996 959,813 945.077
Existing “capital resources”
are considered sufficient to
finance plans “for development
and improvements in buildings
and plant,” capital-expenditure
last term adding a net £18,986
to the book-value of fixed
assets. A fall in value, rather
than quantity, would appear
to be the main factor behind
the sharp £177,785 drop in the
cost-or-under figure shown
against stock.
The overall effects, in the
co., of the current level of
lead prices are regarded as
“favorable” by the board and
a greater volume of sales, at
reduced prices, combined with
newly-effected economies in
production, produced “very
satisfactory results” in the first
half of the current term, earn-
ings exceeding those won In
the corresponding period of
1956. A 6} p.c. interim div. is
payable next month.
Offering prospects of future
benefits beyond the immediate
return, the f.-p. 10s. ords. give
an effective yield of £6 16s. p.c.
from a 12} p.c. div., at 19s.
cum div. The net tangible cover
at June 30 last was 15s. 2d.
H. & S. Credits (N’castle)
''THE H. and S. people want
money in the form of
deposits “on call,” “short call,”
“term” and “compound term.”
The rates are appealing, up to
12 p.c. for three years. The
brochure submitted is attrac-
tively printed and includes a
paean of praise for the two
principals, Messrs. S. *Harp,
chairman of the board, and
B. Stuart, director and
company-secretary.
Reasonably comprehensive
details are set down regarding
the nature of the co.’s activities,
which include credit-merchan-
dising, cash loans, real-estate,
home - finance, discounting,
mortgage and investment
brokerage. The industrious
reader will also learn that H. &
S. Credits (Newcastle) has a
paid-up capital of “just on”
£lOO,OOO, and that the New-
castle property is “valued con-
servatively” in excess of
£50,000; that book-debts are
“in the vicinity” of £lOO,OOO ;
stock “in excess” of £50,000,
and shares in other cos. “in
excess” of £20,000.
In most other respects the
prospective investing public is
left guessing, no indication
being given of the backing for
the deposits or the interest-
cover.
Depositors will assess their
degree of security on the
assumption that the directorate
has set its interest-rates no
higher than it thinks necessary
to attract funds.
National Minerals Holdings
A/fARKETS for rutile and
zircon show no immediate
sign of stabilising, but the
directors of National Minerals
Holdings, Ltd., are of the
opinion that the “bottom level”
of prices has been reached.
An interim report from the
co. states that the output of
rutile and zircon in the current
term, expected to be only 6 p.c.
below that of last term, has all
been sold at profitable prices.
(National Minerals produced
approximately 7300 tons of
rutile and a similar quantity
of zircon during the year to
June 30, 1957, earning a net
profit of £183,714. Paid capital
is £152,384.)
Full production is being
maintained at the Newcastle
(N.S.W.) plant, but the smaller
unit operated at Wollongong
(N.S.W.) by the wholly-owned
subsidiary, Beach Mining (Aus-
tralia) Pty., will be closed-down
at the end of this month. The
Wollongong output was origin-
ally earmarked for the now
almost non-existent “spot”
market.
A 2s. (40 p.c.) interim div.
was paid on March 7 last.
Western Mining Corp.
A RESERVATION of
approximately 2000
square-miles in the West
Kimberley district of West Aus-
tralia has been obtained by
Western Mining Corporation,
Ltd.-
According to the board, the
area “covers an extensive
copper - mineralisation which
outcrops in various places
over a distance of about 30
miles.”
The showings are roughly
60 miles from Derby, to the
south of Collier Bay.


THE HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY
«... Right in the
Business Centre
You’ll find the utmost in comfort
and convenience at The Hotel
Metropole. Conveniently situated
right in the heart of Sydney’s “West
End,” the Hotel Metropole is handy
to transport, offices and Sydney’s
smartest shops and theatres. Enjoy
superb, relaxed comfort at the Hotel
Metropole on your next trip to
Sydney. Over 400 rooms, 85 with
private bathroom; luxurious ultra-
modern suites; friendly, efficient
room-service, day and night; superb
cellar and cuisine; magnificently
appointed dining room and six
banquet rooms —yes, the Hotel
Metropole is truly THE place to
stay in Sydney!
THE HOTEL METROPOLE
Australia’s Most
Friendly Hotel
B 0522. Box 1601, G.P.O.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Wellington, March 10
"VrEW ZEALAND S overseas
■ reserves recovered by £4.8
million to £47.1 million in the
month to February 26, but
were still far below the £84.7-
million level of a year before.
The following table shows the
.monthly movement of reserves
since February, 1957, with the
corresponding figure a year
earlier in each case:
£NZ million.
1957. Year earlier.
February .. 84.7 78.6
March .. .. 89.4 84.9
April .. .. 100.3 90.5
May .. .. 109.9 100.1
June .. .. 113.1 99.7
July .. .. 103.3 97.3
August .. .. 97.9 93.9
September .. 86.5 87.2
October .. 71.5 78.7
November .. 58.5 76.2
December .. 45.5 76.5
1958.
January .. 42.6 -77.3
February .. 47.1 84.7
It seems as if the situation
has been eased temporarily.
Continued recovery can be
expected over the next few
months. But the real test will
come after June, when the
seasonal decline in export-
receipts begins. It will obviously
be a long time before reserves
are restored to a safe level.
Many importing businesses
have been hard-hit by import-
control. Some may be forced
to close-down.
Wool at Lowest
Export-market trends offer
little encouragement. Wool
reached its lowest price for the
season at Timaru early in
March. The N.Z. Wool Com-
mission, which supports the
market as a bidder from time
to time, bought 960 bales, its
biggest purchase in one day for
many years. The wool will be
held for disposal under more
favorable conditions.
N.Z.’s request to the U.K.
Board of Trade for the appli-
cation of anti-dumping duties
on imports of butter from
Sweden, Finland and Eire is
being supported by British
farmers’ unions and miik-
marketing boards, which have
lodged a similar application.
Nevertheless, hopes that effec-
tive action will be taken are
not strongly held.
It was doubtful if N.Z.
could increase its export
markets in the U.K., even at
half the present costs of pro-
duction, said Mr. J. B. Prender-
gast, former senior trade-
commissioner for N.Z. in
London, on his return home.
The U.K. had a static popula-
tion and plenty of food, he
said. It was not prepared to
accept N.Z.’s exports without
subjecting them to a com-
petitive market.
Butter
Sales of N.Z. butter to
markets outside Britain were
halved during the 1956-57
season, falling from 23,475
tons to 11,906 tons, the N.Z.
Dairy Products Marketing
Commission reports. The good
dairying season experienced in
Europe seemed to be the main
reason for the decline. Major
customers such as Czecho-
slovakia, France, Finland, and
Switzerland, which between
them took 12,071 tons of N.Z.
butter in the 1955-56 season,
imported none last season.
The N.Z. meat- and wool-
farmer will have a gross income
this year at least one-fifth less
than last year, according to Mr.
J. E. Downes Roberts, a
member of the electoral com-
mittee of the Meat and Wool
Boards, who has just returned
from a visit to the U.K. on
meat-marketing business.
“As the British Government
is so reluctant to give the Com-
monwealth any protection in an
oversupplied market, it would
appear that N.Z. is getting no
benefit by giving the U.K. a
20 p.c. tariff preference,” said
Mr. Roberts. “My view is that
it would be advisable to stop
this 20 p.c. preference as soon
as the Government is able to
do so. To help develop other
markets outside Britain we will
have to be prepared to trade
with those countries who trade
with us.”
Trade with Australia
The proposal that N.Z.
should send a trade-mission to
Australia has been deferred for
six months because the com-
mittee set-up to examine the
proposal found “lack of spon-
taneous support from com-
mercial and manufacturing
interests.”
The committee consisted of
representatives of the Asso-
ciated Chambers of Commerce,
the Manufacturers’ Federation,
the Radiata- pine division of
the Sawmillers’ Federation, the
Wholesale Fish Merchants’
Association and Associated
Banks.
Announcing the decision, the
Minister of Industries and
Commerce, Mr. Flolloway, said
that the Government would
give every assistance, but it
must be remembered that it was
the manufacturing and com-
mercial community which must
provide the selling members of
any trade-mission. Without
properly trained salesmen who
appreciated their markets and
knew their products a mission
of the type originally con-
ceived could be a waste of time
and money.
This statement drew a reply
from the president of the Asso-
ciated Chambers of Commerce,
Mr. W. G. Helliker. “Exporters
are interested enough,” he said.
“But two things have happened.
First, the new Government
withdrew the undertakings of
the previous Government that
the mission would be accom-
panied by departmental staff,
and, secondly, the introduction
of import-licensing has changed
the picture. Manufacturers do
not know whether their
licences for raw materials will
enable them to supply the N.Z.
market, let alone the Australian
one.”
Manufacturers were fully
aware of the possibilities of
exploiting the Australian
market, but at present were
too concerned with domestic
affairs to spare the men to
form a trade-mission, said Mr.
A. .R. Dellow, secretary of the
Manufacturers’ Federation. In
the prevailing abnormal con-
ditions he thought the decision
to shelve the proposal was wise.
Tasman Pulp and Paper
The Tasman Pulp and Paper
Co., Ltd. reports a net loss of
£1,051,956 for the year to
October last. This is £700,000
less than the previous year’s
loss, and it is arrived at after
provision of £1,674,680 for
depreciation. Ac c u mulated
losses of Tasman and its sub-
sidiary, the Kaiangaroa Logging
Co., Ltd., now amount to
£3,582,193 and a total of
£4,028,547 has been provided
for depreciation.
The result is not disappoint-
ing to those aware of the diffi-
culties to be expected in estab-
lishing such a huge enterprise,
but it may help to make clear
to the unduly optimistic that
dividends are still a long way
off.
Tasman’s net operating profit
for the last year showed a
healthy increase from £369,176
to £1,259,446. Output, com-
pared with that for the previous
year, in parentheses, was:
Newsprint (long tons), 60,000
(39,000); woodpulp for sale
(long tons), 35,000 (22,000);
sawn timber (board-feet),
22,000,000 (10,500,000).
Most of the difficulties in the
company’s development period
have been or are being over-
come, the chairman, Sir James
Fletcher, says.
Demand for newsprint in
Australia and N.Z. remains
firm. Both immediate and
forward market-prospects are
good. The company during the
year appointed newsprint and
pulp sales-representatives in
Melbourne and Sydney, and
has recently established a sub-
sidiary company, Tasman Pulp
and Paper (Sales) Pty., Ltd., to
assist in the marketing of
Tasman products in Australia.
The importance of the
industry to the national
economy is shown by the fact
that the company’s earnings
from the manufacture of pulp,
paper and timber for the Aus-
tralian market already con-
stitute one-third of N.Z.’s total
income from exports to this
copntry.
Tasman has spent more than
£600,000 on investigating and
experimentally using geo-
thermal steam. The directors
are satisfied that it offers con-
siderable savings. They are
going to spend another £150,000
in extending its use for process-
purposes in the mill and are
considering the establishment
of a geothermal-steam power-
plant.


spirit was doubtless her birth-
right, as a bitch born in the
shadow of war, to whom the
rumble of tanks, the sound of
gunfire, and the sight of soldiers
killed in battle were normal
expressions of everyday life.
Her education in the ways of
human beings was certainly
wide. The night we adopted
her, Dunn and 1 took her with
us into the estaminet of the
Hotel Lion d’Or, in Bayeux,
which was always crammed
after dark with drinking, yarn-
ing, lounging soldiers, trying to
satisfy their nostalgia for an
English pub. It was on that
evening that the official pianist
of the local Resistance Move-
ment chanced to make his first
appearance at the Lion d’Or ;
at least, he claimed the title of
official pianist of La Resistance,
though it seemed open to doubt
that an underground fighting-
organisation, pledged to the
task of harassing the German
forces of occupation, would
have permitted itself the luxury
of an official pianist.
He was a large red-faced,
beak-nosed man, with an
Adam’s-apple which climbed
up and down his throat like an
animated golfball, at a speed
governed by the strength of
the emotional stress which
gripped him at any given time.
He was much addicted to cal-
vados, the fiery liqueur which
takes its name from the depart-
ment of Normandy in which
Bayeux lies, and the quantity
of calvados he was able to
swallow made strong drinkers
marvel. He came into the
estaminet that night flanked by
two comrades ; they were both,
silent men, but the official
pianist of La Resistance made
enough noise for all three. He
polished off a number of small
glasses of calvados at a great
rate, and rollicked about the
estaminet like a large and
clumsy buffalo, clapping
soldiers on the back, booming
out great patriotic shouts, and
roaring throaty imprecations
against the Germans.
After swallowing more cal-
vados he mounted a chair,
called for silence, then
demanded in a tremendous
voice that everyone present
should join in singing “God
Save the King” and the “Mar-
seillaise.” Nobody objecting, he
dismounted from the chair and
sat down at a venerable piano
in the corner. He gave the
keys four or five preliminary
thumps with his large sausage-
fingered hands. The piano,
which bore on the inside of the
lid an inscription in gold letters
Medaille Exposition 1555, and
looked as if it had been in
service at least since the medal
was awarded, reeled under the
blows. Then the pianist went
into serious action. His great
fingers crashed and thudded
through each anthem in turn,
missing a note here and there,
not infrequently striking one or
more wrong notes, but preserv-
ing a melodic balance of sorts
by adding a selection of im-
provised arpeggios which were
decorative, if superfluous.
He swelled the tumult by
himself bellowing each anthem
in a voice not sweet, but power-
ful. The assembled soldiery,
though not well pleased at this
interruption to the business of
drinking, humored the whim
of the pianist of- La Resistance :
they stood up at their marble-
topped table s, sheepishly
mumbling an approximation of
each anthem and comforting
themselves wih the thought that
this kind of thing happened
only once in a war, anyway.
Tilly climbed on a chair, the
better to observe what was
taking place, and contributed
a few enthusiastic yaps to the
somewhat ragged rendition of
the “Marseillaise.”
When the performance was
done the pianist slammed down
the lid over the keys of the
piano, climbed back on to his
chair and called for three cheers
for the Allies. We gave the
cheers in some embarrassment,
while Tilly blinked about her,
vaguely whining. Then we all
resumed our seats, supposing
we should be called upon for
no more exhibitions of loyal
fervor that evening. We were
wrong. The pianist fell upon
the calvados once more, and
went lurching about the
estaminet, back-slapping and
shouting, his Adam’s-apple
leaping in his throat as if it
would burst from the confining
flesh at any moment, his moist
eyes rolling in patriotic frenzy. '
Presently he made a rush at the
piano, flung back the lid and
once more beat out each of the
anthems in turn. We all stood,
joining in the singing. Some
sang softly, some loudly, but
the pianist of La Resistance
sang loudest of all. Above his
swelling neck, the eyes pro-
truded like bloodshot marbles
from his purple face.
“Yon mannie’ll burrst his
boiler, Ah’m thinkin’,”
mused a Scottish corporal
standing near me.
Tilly was the only member of
the company who appeared to
see nothing odd in these events,
She had curled up under Dunn’s
chair and fallen asleep ; her ears
did not even twitch in response
to the uproar.
The pianist closed the piano
and returned to his drinking,
but he was not yet spent. After
a lapse of only a few minutes,
he staggered, glass in hand,
toward a chair and climbed up
on it. He stood there, swaying,
neck distended, eyes protruding,
while he groped for words,
1 do not know what he planned
to say. Nobody will ever know
now, because the words did not
come. Not surprisingly,' con-
sidering the quantity of cal-
vados he had drunk, he missed
his footing on the chair, fell,
and struck his head on the edge
of a marble-topped table with
a fearful thwack. His two
silent comrades moved to his
aid. They did it with a smooth
simultaneity which suggested
they were well practised.
They levered him to his feet,
shook him a little, gave him
a few comradely slaps on the
purple cheeks. The eyes of the
pianist of La Resistance blinked
open, and he passed a hand
over his forehead. His two
silent comrades each took one
of his arms and led him from
the estaminet and out into the'
night. Tilly, who had wakened,
trotted after them to the door,
and sent them on their way
with a volley of sharp barks.
She then returned to her place
under Dunn’s chair, curled up,
and went to sleep again, as if
the downfall of a pianist of
La Resistance were the most
usual of life’s events,
TF this glimpse of the primrose
A path was a deceptively
pleasant introduction to her
embattled career, Tilly appeared
to take no harm from it. She
soon left us in np doubt that
she loved the smell and sound
of battle above all else. I
suspect hers was the courage of
ignorance, but she was never
better pleased with life than
when she could squat on her
bottom and watch a battery of
guns in action ; I always half-
expected her to trot up to the
officer commanding and proffer
her views on the finer points of
the artilleryman’s craft,
She even relished Army
rations. She ate with obvious
enjoyment such fare as bully-
beef, M. and V., broken
biscuits smeared with con-
densed milk, cheese, and those
mysterious delicacies found in
U.S. army ration-packs. Con-
siderations of private owner-
ship meant nothing to Tilly
when food was to be had. One
evening she gulped down a
British battalion-commander’s
portion of M. and V. while his
back was turned for a few
seconds, then crunched up half
his plastic plate before we
could drag her away,
] cannot pretend that Tilly
exerted much influence On the
course of the battles she
attended as an observer, but she
did achieve one high distinc-
tion ; she was the only dog to
welcome General Charles de
Gaulle on his return to French
soil. By merest chance Alan
Moorehead and I were on the
beach in the Bayeux sector
when De Gaulle, unheralded,
came ashore from a French
destroyer. It was a moment of
some historic significance: De
Gaulle was returning to his
native land for the first time
since he had left it after the
f a p c f France. The only
(Continued on page 56)


In the car with the big, better difference
M
.fi
FORD VS
CUSTOMUNE-
you can have these world-proven
advances in easier, smoother, safer driving. . •
DRIVE
Finest, most versatile automatic drive ever built !
In Customline, you can have fully automatic transmission so smooth and efficient
that the automatic change of gears is almost imperceptible. Fordomatic Drive,
in addition to automatic gears, incorporates a remarkable torque converter. And the
Ford O.H.V. V 8 engine, because of its more smoothly “flowing” power and big
reserves, teams up with automatic transmission more efficiently than can normal
engines. Whether in acceleration, cruise or climb, Fordomatic action is silken-smooth.
V
2
mm POWER BRAKES
—that need only one third of normal effort!
Just a touch on the pedal, and Customline’s
optional power brake equipment handles all
the effort for you. With up to one third of
the normal pressure on the pedal you
have an instant smooth braking control
which makes driving, in traffic or
highway, easier and more relaxing.
7
FORD ROWER STEERING
—bringing an entirely new ease of control!
Here’s power to do up to 75% of your parking
and assist you in all your driving. You can
actually turn the wheel with one finger when
the car is being parked ... and on the road,
shocks are absorbed before they reach the
steering wheel, yet you retain the “feel of
the wheel” in all driving conditions
csj
id
YOUR FORD DEALER INVITES YOU TO
TEST-BRiVE
CUSTOMLINE’S BIG, BETTER DIFFERENCE!
No other car gives you:
• Customline’s fashion-leading styling • Customline’s living room on wheels
• Customline’s “Lifeguard” steering wheel and door-locks • Customline’s
“performance-combination” of overhead valve V 8 engine, ball-joint
suspension and husky K-bar chassis.
SEE YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER!
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
FV4OO


A Born Teacher
By BRIAN JAMES
George was a bom
teacher. To see him at
work on a class was to
see a new light thrown
upon the oldest, the most
difficult, and, possibly, the
most satisfying of the arts —-
Pedagogy.
His wooing of this caprici-
ous mistress was at once enter-
taining, beautiful and almost
terrifying in that complete
absorption of heart and mind.
So, very naturally, he was
looked upon with suspicion by
the inspectors, and viewed
with horror by old Jallop, the
headmaster. It was just a
matter of George’s being too
big, too new, and too strange
for their appreciation.
George taught Maths. Not
much chance, you’d say, for
him there, to display himself
as the born teacher. Had it
been Geology or Needlework,
or even English—well, yes.
But Maths! No, there’s
something in that old piece of
humor, “You don’t have to be
mad to teach Maths, but it
helps.”
Not that George was mad ;
just difficult to understand —
so old Jallop saw to it that
George got all the worst
classes in the lower school . . .
George would be doing less
harm there than anywhere
else.
So George got all the duds,
those healthy animals who
normally viewed all subjects
as sheer waste of time:
English was hooey, French
was bull, Science was nuts,
History, Geography and
Business Principles (lumped
together for convenience) were
pure tripe. But for Maths,
even in juvenile language, the
term was one that never sees
print.
Everyone tried to dodge
these dud classes. Those
unfortunate enough to be
allotted to them complained
loudly and miserably. They
tried to egg-on the Federation
to put up a case for special
rates of pay for taking the
duds, somewhat’ as wharf-
laborers demand dirt-money
for unloading rotten potatoes.
But the Federation didn’t do
much about it, perhaps
due, deep down, to a
feeling that boys aren’t the
only duds.
But George liked the duds.
What is more, they liked him.
Only a born teacher could
find himself so happily situ-
ated. George brought a ray
of light and warmth into their
drab day. That was especially
so in the cast of IP. It was a
big school, and the classes
were alphabetically graded
according to intelligence. The
“I,” of course, denoted first-
years, and “P” the last and
the lowest of them. There was
nothing beyond “P.” There
couldn’t be.
George was 26, and big and
strong and healthy. A very
powerful man, really, with no
silly pride in his strength. He
had a face like those depicted
on the Cheeryble Brothers in
an old-time edition of Nicholas
Nickleby. Only George’s face
was a good deal more
animated.
“Here he comes!” IP said,
being guided by the timetable
and a heavy tramp along the
corridor. What was bedlam
before in IP became joyful,
healthy noise. Nothing offen-
sive about it at all, if you
could stand the din.
Old Jallop couldn’t. He
closed the office door and
window, and writhed on his
swivel-chair, and pitied him-
self greatly that he should ever
be saddled with classes like
IP and teachers like George.
Perfectly miserable he was, in
the contemplation of his
blood-pressure and his ulcers.
In the ordinary course of
events he was proud of both,
deeming them a credit to him-
self as a hardworking Head.
But George and IP put these
admirable disabilities beyond
the region of conceit and into
that of mortality and dissolu-
tion. Old Jallop didn’t want
to die yet.
ALL unconscious of the
shocking state he was
bringing old Jallop to, George
marched into IP and grinned
at it.
It was the interested grin of
a small boy watching a pit of
monkeys at the zoo. He
always affected surprise, too.
“Well, bless my heart, if it
isn’t IP!”
Then he held up a great
paw:
“Steady now, you tigers!
steady! Don’t forget there
are others besides ourselves in
this ramshackle structure. And
the flaming noise you’re mak-
ing’s enough to send the Old
Boy into fits. Wouldn’t like
that, would you?”
Of course IP would like it,
and George grinned more
broadly still.
“Well, now, it’s down to
work we go. That theorem I
told you to look up. Where’s
that Deegan?”
“Here, sir!”
A particularly cheerful
idiot stood up.
“Ah, there you are, Deegan!
Now, you go ahead and recite
the enunciation.”
Deegan gave a few stutters
and stammers and couldn’t.
“You’re a silly ass,
Deegan!” George pronounced
“ass” in the manner of certain
Englishmen, giving it a long,
drawn out “a,” and making
■the word rudely anatomical.
It always delighted IP to hear
one or other of its members
being called a silly ass.
“All right, Deegan, hopeless
as ever. You, Beetroot!”
Beetroot was a ruddy-faced
juvenile whose proper name
was Montgomery, though
you’d hardly suspect it. But
Beetroot didn’t know the
enunciation either. He
bogged down badly after
“When two triangles have two,
two, two . .
“Beetroot, you’re another
silly ass.” In like manner
Browner was a blinking idiot
and Hayes a pet moron. “Ah
well, you don’t know it, none
of you. Now, listen. Here it
is: ‘When two triangles have
two sides of the one equal to
two sides of the other, each
to each, and the angles
included by those sides equal,
then the triangles are con-
gruent.’ That’s it. What does
‘congruent’ mean, Fothergill?”
“Oh, sir, it just means, that,


that, they are . . . well, sir,
that they are . . .”
“Quite so, Fothergill; equal
in all respects. From the
Latin ‘congruere,’ which
means ‘to run together.’ Now,
let us on to the proof.”
TTE turned to the blackboard
and drew two triangles
that were selfconsciously try-
ing to look alike. “Now,
watch this very closely. In
these triangles AB is equal to
DE—you know, same length
and all that; and AC is equal
to DF. Got that? All right
then. And the angle BAC —
that’s this one, see —is equal to
angle EDF. Now, we’ve got to
prove the triangles congruent.
What do we do about it?’’
No one rightly knew.
“Quite simple, really. We
just superimpose DEF on
ABC to see if they fit. Exactly.
Now, watch very closely.
We’re going to lift DEF right
off the board and put it over
the top of ABC. Like this.”
He hitched back his sleeves
a little, rubbed his hands
together to free them of chalk-
dust, so as not to spoil DEF
with finger-marks. Then he
went through the show of
grasping DEF firmly yet
delicately and lifting it right
off the board. It was done
so realistically that when he
held up, for their view, the
imaginary triangle, it was
imaginary no longer. They
could see it.
“Now watch —take a good
gecko at this!”
With slow ease and precision
he bore the fragile triangle
across to ABC. “We put D
on top of A.” He did this
very exactly. “And we let
DE run along AB. Like this,
see.” He released his right
hand to give the two triangles
a pat, still holding them with
the left hand lest DEF might
slide off and drop to the floor.
“Now, because DE is equal to
AB, what happens, Deegan?”
“Yes, sir, they do.”
“Quite right, Deegan, they
do —that is, point E falls on
point B. Get it?”
And because Angle D
equalled Angle A, side DF
ran along side AC. Couldn’t
do anything else. And he
patted DF firmly into position
along AC. And, lo and
behold, point F fell exactly on
point C. Because there was
nowhere else for it to go.
Was there? The class heartily
agreed that that was so,
though there had been an
uneasy feeling that there
might be some hitch some-
where to prevent it. It was
quite a relief, then, to have F
safely fixed on C. Something
like the relief everyone felt
when the two ends of the
Harbor Bridge met exactly.
“So you see, IP, the sides
FE and CB coincide. Noth-
ing else for it, and they can’t
do anything else.”
He released his hands, gave
them another rub, beamed
triumphantly on the class and
announced, “Therefore the
triangles are congruent. Which
means that DEF fits ABC like
a glove. Q.E.D.”
Not only was there relief to
suspense (the blasted things
mightn’t have fitted after all)
but there was sheer admira-
tion of a most difficult con-
juring-trick superlatively well
done. The class spontaneously
cheered. George, as a good
showman, greatly appreciated
the cheer. He gave a modest
little bow.
Old Jallop down below in
his office gave a moan and a
shiver: “Oh dear, oh dear,
and the inspectors are coming
next week!”
T>ROBLEMS in Arithmetic
-*■ were best of all. Real
story-interest entered here at
its highest. A, B and C became
vastly entertaining personali-
ties, full of human virtues and
vices, of fits of generosity or
chronic low-cunning.
The three did a tremendous
deal of buying and selling
among themselves, and the
dirty tricks they played on each
other, in the fortuitous coinci-
dence of innocence and
chicanery, were most lamen-
table. A would sell B a house
at a profit of twenty per cent. ..
“Think of that, boys, twenty
per cent! Cruel, that sort of
thing. B, about to get married,
wants a house badly. Willing
to pay anything, and A takes
advantage of it. Not much of
a house either, wants painting
and all the guttering rotten and
leaking. Of course, A sells it
when it isn’t raining.
“Then B finds out that the
house is full of white-ants and
just about ready to sit down.
Doesn’t he go crook! What
he calls A I wouldn’t like to
repeat. A’s not there to hear
him —A’s busy selling another
house to another boob. So B
advertises the house nice
modern bungalow, all modern
cons, and that sort of thing.
And that’s where C comes in.
Poor old C —been living with
the wife’s people and he’s just
about desperate.
“B unloads the house, white-
ants and all, on C, and makes
a profit of twenty-five per cent.
C has had such a rough spin
all these years that he hasn’t
the heart left to say much
about the ramshackle shack
that B has unloaded on him.
Anyway, it’s better than living
with the wife’s people.
“But B, who is mighty
pleased about getting out of a
bad bargain, still has a grudge
against A, and still calls him
all those dreadful names. And
A, when he hears what C’s paid
for the house, gnashes his teeth
in rage that he hadn’t heard of
C a bit earlier. Funny business
isn’t it?
“Well, now, this is the point
—poor C paid three-thousand-
six-hundred for the jerry-built
dump—the thing would have
been worth about three-fifty
once, but you have to forget
that part of it. Three-thousand-
six-hundred ! A lot of money
that. And we have to find
out what A gave for the house
in the first place . .
There were all manner of
exciting things in this world of
Arithmetic. There were trains
that rushed towards each other,
and whoosh! passed each
other so fast you hadn’t a
dog’s chance of recognising
anyone in the other train. Or
one train caught up to the
other, and then you could
pick-out all the people quite
plainly . . . And then there
were clocks that went slow, and
clocks that went fast, and A
and B appeared in the guise
of sporting gents, and bet on
the time between seven and
eight the hands would come
together . . . There were rival
gangs digging trenches—and
how long did it take them and
Who finished first?
'THE inspectors came and
didn’t think much of
George. They said he was a
bad influence; boys would
never get on with a teacher
like George.
Old Jallop begged that they’d
take George away and “give
someone else a turn of him,”
but the inspectors reckoned
that other schools already had
more than their fair share of
ratbags. They didn’t quite put
it in those words, but that is
what they meant.
So George stayed on. And
no doubt he’d be there yet, if
he hadn’t . . .
For alas! he’s no longer
teaching. No, he’s not dead.
He’s simply not teaching any
more. Being a born teacher,
he decided he wasn’t suitable
material for the Department,
so he resigned.
But he’d stayed long enough
to outlast old Jallop. Yes, old
Jallop reached the age-limit and
had to retire. But he wasn’t
a born teacher, and so he
decided the Department
couldn’t function properly with-
out him. He was back, in
another school, the very next
day, as a retread.
As such, he had a hell of a
time of it. The boys didn’t
like him and ragged him un-
mercifully. The staff didn’t like
him either—certain members
of it had once been on his staff,
and hadn’t forgotten it. And
the Head viewed him as a
hopeless old misfit, and tried
hard to have him moved some-
where else.
Perhaps old Jallop wouldn’t
have put up with it if he hadn’t
wanted the money. He was
very fond of money. Also it
seemed to help his ulcers and
blood-pressure to function more
smoothly.
* As to George, he went in
for Medicine and had a sur-
prisingly brilliant career as a
student, which went to show
that the old saying wasn’t
always right—that a teacher
isn’t any good for anything
else if he stays teaching long
enough.
George became a most suc-
cessful medico. A little luck
and much merit made him
so. Everyone said he was a
born doctor; his bedside-
manner was wonderful. His
patients didn’t die, just couldn’t
bring themselves to it.
The terrible IP of the old
days had long since grown-up
and gone out into the wide
world. Most of them did well
too. Their refusal to be ruined
by education stood them in
good stead. Their vigor and
mental power were unimpaired.
Some of them inevitably came
to George as patients—Deegan,
for example.
Deegan was a builder, with
a capital-B. He was unaware
that his doctor was George
until a cheerful voice called
out, “Deegan, you are a silly
ass. . .” Then Deegan forgot
he was sick and failed to
remember it afterwards.
There was Beetroot, too, now
something big in the car-
racing game. He said “Holy
Moses! Well, I’ll be ”
when he saw it was George.
And George said, “Exactly!
And can you prove that the
square on the hypotenuse is
equal to the sum of the”
“I’m if I can,” said
Beetroot.
“Well, that’s all right. There’s
still hope for you.” He
thumped Beetroot here and
there. “Nothing wrong with
you, Beetroot.”
“But I thought I had . . .”
“Of course you did. You
were always a blasted humbug.”
Very unprofessional. Bora
doctors always are.
(<Continued on page 41)


India Reviews Its Five-year Plan
Planning for Prosperity
FIVE-YEAR Plans and reports on
Five-year Plans have been the chief
talking - points of the Soviet
economic system for something
like 30 years—so much so that any
country or organisation that adopts a
five-year plan of its own, instead of a
three-, seven- or ten-year plan, is
immediately assumed to be following the
Russian example.
There were, of course, five-year plans
before Moscow's, though never on so
huge a scale. Decennial periods,
customarily used for purposes of census,
would probably mean too long a wait
for planners who, unlike census-takers,
want to see results, not merely record
them. Half a decade, the lustrum of the
Roman censors, is a convenient com-
promise.
Whatever the model of India’s First
Five-year Plan may have been, the
inspiration behind the official review of it
—a 500-page book published by the
Government of India Press —is clear
from the first page. It is unmistakably
in direct line of descent from the literary
traditions of the British civil service.
Thus:
The First Five-year Plan had a twofold
objective. Firstly, it aimed at correcting
the disequilibrium in the economy caused
by the War and the partition of the
country. Secondly, it proposed to initiate
simultaneously a process of all-round
balanced development which would ensure
a rising national income and a steady
improvement in living-standards over a
period. While the investment-pattern
envisaged in the plan was worked-out with
due regard to the immediate objective and
the resources immediately in sight, the
approach to the problems of mobilisation
was formulated in the light of the long-
term objective.
But if the wordiness and circumlocu-
tion of the British civil service are in the
report, so is its avoidance of superlatives.
There are no extravagant claims; no
excited parading of achievements. Gains
are modestly reported; shortcomings
soberly recorded.
A Bad Start
TNDIA’S First Five-year Plan covered
1 the period 1950-51 to 1955-56. It
began under very unfavorable conditions.
There were acute shortages of food and
raw materials; industrial output was
below capacity ; the transport-system was
in bad shape, and a crop-failure in the
first year, necessitating the import of
4.7 million tons of foodstuffs, gave the
plan a bad start. Reviewed from the
expenditure angle the plan went slowly
for the first two or three years, with a
big stepping-up of outlay in the last two
years, in which 57 per cent, of the
expenditure for the whole plan was
incurred.
During the course of the plan national
income increased by 17.5 per cent. The
output of primary industry rose by 14.7
per cent.; of mining, manufactures and
small enterprises by 18.2 per cent.; com-
merce, transport and communications by
18.6 per cent., and other services and
activities by 23.7 per cent.
Undoubtedly the advance in large-scale
industries was more rapid than in perhaps
any quinquennium earlier, but their total
impact cannot but be small because of the
preponderance of agriculture in the com-
munity. While the rate of increase of
national income has on the whole been
satisfactory, it has not taken place at a
steady pace There was a large increase
in 1953-54 and 1954-55, as a result mainly
of the increase in agricultural output.
Most of the increase in national income
occurred in the first three years; the
improvement in the final year was
negligible. The review says that the per
capita incomes rose by 10.5 per cent, in
the period : per capita consumption by
no more than 8 per cent. “Considering
the large step-up in developmental out-
lays and in investment in the last two
years of the plan, it is likely that the
level of consumption since 1953-54 in
per capita terms has shown hardly any
rise.”
Frank Admissions
'T'HIS is honest reasoning without any
attempt to make the figures tell a
story that isn’t there. Equally frank is
the admission that the improvement in
farm-output was due more to two good
monsoon seasons than to the effectiveness
of the plan—which is a salutary reminder
to planners in Australia as well as in
India that the weather continues to
follow its independent course and shows
scant respect for even the best-intentioned
plans.
It is, of course, impossible to assess
results of the plan purely on statistics of
production at the beginning and end of
the period. As has been pointed out, in
the last two years of the plan when the
amount of expenditure was being
increased, improvement in output was
slowing-down. Much of the money has
been spent on developmental work which
will give no direct return for many years;
the return for some items of expenditure
—education, for example—can never be
measured ; it must be taken for granted
that higher standards of education assist
in raising the living-standards of the
community.
As such a high proportion of India’s
population is engaged in agriculture it
is natural that highest priority in the plan
was given to agricultural development.
There were programmes for increased
farm-production of all kinds; for
developing animal - husbandry; for
expanding dairying, forestry and fisheries;
for encouraging the development of co-
operatives. Irrigation projects designed
to double the area under irrigation within
15 years—lndia already has more land
under irrigation than any other country
—were put under way during the period,
and, in addition, a multitude of minor
irrigation-works, designed for quick
results, were completed, including more
than 180,000 wells. In a drive to increase
farm-production, the use of fertilisers has
been encouraged by subsidy ; encourage-
ment has been given to the production of
improved varieties of seeds for food-
crops ; there has been an expansion of
facilities for agricultural education and
agricultural research. All the food-crops
showed a distinct improvement in output
over the period, and the increased pro-
duction of cotton (37.5 per cent.) and
jute (28 per cent.) >Vas quite spectacular.
Coal, Steel and Textiles
ON the industrial front targets were
reached or passed in many sectors.
Coal-production rose from 32.3 million
tons in 1950 to 38.2 million tons in
1955. In the same period iron-ore out-
put increased from 2.9 million tons to
4.7 million tons, making possible a rise
in steel output of 30.5 per cent, and in
pigiron of 13.7 per cent. Cement-
production jumped by 70 per cent. In the
textile industry, production of yarn rose
from 1179 million lb. to 1633 million lb.
and of mill-cloth from 3718 million yds.
to 5102 million yds. Side-by-side with
mill development the plan also
encouraged village- and cottage-industry;
handloom-cloth output rose from 810
million yds. to 1449 million yds. and
improvements were also shown in other
village industries. ,
India has now embarked upon its
Second Five-year Plan. Replying last
week to charges that this programme was
overambitious, Prime Minister Nehru
told the Federation of India Chambers
of Commerce that this was not so. The
first plan had succeeded so far as its
targets were concerned, “but the targets
were really so low that they did not
catch up with the advancing tide of popu-
lation.” It was therefore essential to set
higher objectives for the second plan.
In the same speech he reminded his
audience that a country could not
advance solely on foreign aid and that in
the ultimate analysis what counted was
the “stature of the men and women of a
country, their capacity for hard work and
the psychology behind them.” He warned
that India must expect to continue to pass
through difficult times “till our own pro-
duction is enough to take care of the
foreign-exchange field as well as of the
'internal-resources field.”
That may be taken as the objective of
India’s Five-year Plans.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Sydney Racing
Sydney’s top gallopers
will be competing at Rosehill
on Saturday next, when the
Sydney Turf Club will hold
its autumn fixture. An interest-
ing competitor in the rich
Golden Slipper Stakes (£10,000)
will be Melbourne’s crack two-
year-old, Misting, who may find
Sydney’s Cerasus and Bold
Pilot two worthy opponents in
that sprint. Doncaster Handi-
cap and Sydney Cup candidates
will contest the Railway
Quality Handicap, seven
furlongs, and the £3300 Club
Cup, 1| miles, while the weight-
for-age Rawson Stakes, nine
furlongs, is expected to attract
a classy field. Entrants for
this interesting event include
Zariba, Grenoble, Tulloch,
Teranyan, Kingster, Baron
Boiss : er, Monte Carlo, and
Caranna. If Tulloch is a
runner he should make it tough
for opponents.
The Rawson Stakes at Rose-
hill, one of the highlights of
Sydney’s autumn round, is a
weight-for-age of long standing.
Winners of the race include
Redcraze, Bernborough, Beau
Vite, Lough Neagh, Peter Pan,
Rogilla, Nightmarch, Limerick,
and Valicare. Last year’s
winner, Redcraze, with A.
Ward up, started at 3-to-l on,
and covered the nine furlongs
in 1.50 3-10, a race- and course-
record. Ward also won this
event on Vagabond and on
Columnist. G. Moore, who
rides Tulloch, won the Rawson
on Tarien and on Forest Beau.
Fred Shean, who rides Cerasus
in the Golden Slipper Stakes,
won the Rawson in 1936 and
again in 1937 on Lough Neagh.
The Randwick Gymea
Handicap, as expected, was
won by Gold Stakes —his
fourth successive victory—but
the six furlongs didn’t suit
most of the Doncaster
candidates who chased him
home. Gold Stakes is no
miler and wasn’t entered for
the Doncaster; his best
distance is the six furlongs.
Minor placegetters Commedia
and Troy are weighted for the
mile. Troy carried 7.2, but
he advances to 7.9, which
doesn’t favor his prospects
compared with Commedia,
who drops from 8.1 to 7.13.
It was Commedia’s first run
since October, and his per-
formance was attractive.
Grenoble’s fifth in the
Randwick Gymea Handicap
after being one of the tail-
enders at the home-turn was
such a sound Doncaster
pointer that he retains his
“But how do you KNOW it isnt loaded ?”
position in the betting market.
He will have another outing
before the big race, probably
in the Warwick Farm Liver-
pool Handicap next Saturday
week. Grenoble carried 8.13
last Saturday and drops to 8.5
in the Randwick mile. The
distance will suit him better,
too. The same applies to
Slogan 11, who found the
Gymea Handicap too short,
with lib. more than his Don-
caster weight.
Slogan won the Doncaster
in 1956 with 7.8, and last year
with 7.12, and a lot of people
think he could do the hat-
trick. He seems to have been
leniently treated with Bst.
Slogan finished seventh to
Gold Stakes in the Gymea—
his first outing in about five
months. He seems certain to
be improved by the run and
another outing should top him
off for the mile.
A.J.C. committeeman Brian
Crowley owns a speedy colt in
Skyline, who had a runaway
victory in the Randwick
Juvenile Stakes. It was the
youngster’s first success and
the next seems close at hand.
He’d finished in minor places
at his three prior outings.
Skyline was bred by his owner,
and is a Star Kingdom (imp.)
colt from Flight’s Daughter,
who, as the name implies, is
a daughter of that grand mare
Flight, who also carried the
Skyline colors. Flight won 24
races and £30,627 in stakes.
She was top winning mare
until Evening Peal won the
Melbourne Cup in 1956 and
took her total to £30,694, or
£67 above Flight’s winnings.
Jack Green trains Skyline.
Two races later he won the
Gymea Handicap with Gold
Stakes.
Pushover, an aged staying
mare, beat at weight-for-age
over 2\ miles a jaded Sailor’s
Guide in the V.R.C. Carbine
Stakes by nine lengths. The
mare had previously shown
marked ability over long
distances, but Pushover hasn’t
come into Sydney Cup betting
following her success. Apart
from the fact that Sailor’s Guide
was a tired horse when she beat
him, aged horses don’t win
Sydney Cups. Gold Scheme,
who won four years ago,
was the only one in the past
80 years, and after that one has
to go back to 1877, when King-
fisher won the race.
New Zealander Marksman’s
display at Canterbury Park
less than a fortnight previ-
ously assured him of favoritism
for the Randwick Maiden
event, especially when the
mount was taken by G.
Moore. Most punters are
keen judges and when they
notice a promising run by a
beaten horse they are ready
for next appearance. Marks-
man’s at Canterbury was a
real pointer to his initial
success. At the suburban track
he was 14th at the half-mile
and not much closer near the
home-turn, but he finished
fourth to his stablemate Tory
Victory and in similar com-
pany. The three-year-old
gelding cost 1300gns. as a
yearling in New Zealand. He
is by Marco Polo II (imp.),
from Flying Vixen, by Fox-
bridge (imp.), from Flying
Juliet, by Romeo (imp.). He
seems a potential stayer,
maybe a Cup winner. His
half-brother, Fordham, was
well known on Melbourne
tracks a few seasons ago. He
won 10 races and £10,120 in
stakes.
Improving on two minor
placings, Space Girl won her
first race —Randwick Two-year-
old Stakes —in easy fashion
and quickly wiped-out her first
cost as a yearling, a modest
150gns. She already is a turf
bargain as first money was
£B2B. The filly could prove a
good advertisement for her
imported sire, Oleandrin, whose
progeny are this season racing
for the first time. Few have
been tried. Oleandrin was
successful in sprint company in
England. He is by Pink
Flower, from Marugain, by
Bosworth. Space Girl’s dam,
Sky, is by John Dory from
Cicely’s Pride (a half-sister to
Mestoravon, 1937 Sydney Cup
winner) by Orby’s Pride. Rand-
wick trainer Doug Lonsdale
has the filly in fine trim and
further success should soon
come her way. Space Girl is
raced by Mrs. J. Ferguson.
Altogether, the filly has won
£lOlB in prizemoney.
Melbourne Cup winner
Straight Draw returned to the
winning list in the A.J.C.
Cronulla Handicap, 1| mile
23yds., in brilliant fashion
and is now more popular for
the Sydney Cup. The race was
worth £s47 and the winner
doesn’t incur a Cup penalty.
Straight Draw carried 9.2 and


drops 31b. in the two-miler,
which is a consideration. No
doubt the stable will dodge a
penalty with Straight Draw.
For such a top handicapper he
seems well placed in the Sydney
Cup with 8.13.
From the stands it seemed
that runner-up Sailor Gay, who
was nicely weighted at 7.7, was
unlucky to have lost. Straight
Draw beat him by a nose! Had
Sailor Gay kept his head
straight instead of veering to
the near side on the winning-
line there would have been a
different result. Photographs of
the finish showed the incident.
Sailor Gay is also in the
Sydney Cup and with 31b. above
the limit could be an outside
show. He is a five-year-old by
Magic Bow (imp.) from Sail-
charm.
Coal, a useful welter-type
mare, returned to the winning
list in the A.J.C. Welter mile,
plus 23yds. Handicapped 41b.
above the limit, she was well
fancied by trainer A. F.
(“Nipper”) Berry, who has a
small team in work at Rose-
bery. The mare had galloped
well two days before her win
and her time was equally as
good as that made by the much-
better-performed Caranna. On
that Berry regarded Coal as
having a good show.
• • • •
Brisbane winners at Ascot
included Dasnique, a likely
visitor to Sydney for the
autumn meetings he is
engaged in the A.J.C. Doncaster
Handicap with 7.6, 61b. above
the limit. Dasnique is one of
Fred Best’s team. He has been
racing consistently, and won
the March Handicap, 1 mile 2\
furlongs, from Abasan and the
aged Port Arthur. Dasnique
carried 8.4, or 121 b. more than
his Doncaster impost, but he
remains a Doncaster outsider.
* * *
“Retired Bagman”: Not
having seen John Buchan race
I can’t argue too confidently
with P. O. MacCabe, except to
say that on the record-book
the moke was definitely inferior
to the original Buchan and
that horse's close relatives.
Buchan won two Eclipse
Stakes in England and ran
second in the Derby. His half-
brothers The Tamar and St.
Germans were also Derby
runners-up and So was his three-
quarter-brother in blood Craig
an Erain, who also won the
Eclipse Stakes, a race which
fell in time to Buchan’s full-
brother Saltash. If John Buchan
showed form in England any-
where near that standard I’ll
dig up his skeleton and eat it.
And if the Oakleigh Plate and
Villiers Stakes winner Wish
Wynne ever won a Doncaster
I’ll eat her remains as well.
Incidentally,- one of the best-
known namers of horses after
friends was King George V.
Friar Marcus, after Lord
Marcus Beresford, and Sir
Dighton, after one of his
household officers, are a couple
that come to mind. The last-
named also finished-up in Aus-
tralia. Back in the ’thirties 1
owned a son of his for ten
minutes —won him in a £2O
raffle and jumped him over the
store-counter to pay my bills.
“Meg”: In the early days
of racing in Queensland there
were set weights for all events.
Three-year-olds carried lOst.
71b., four-year-olds list, and
horses from five years up-
wards list. 71b. A proviso in
the rules stated emphatically
that dll dogs on the course were
to be destroyed. A ticket for
the grandstand cost ss. There
were 30 occupied seats on the
first day of the three-day meet-
ing at Eagle Farm in 1865.
* * #
—end Melbourne
Melbourne’s autumn racing
carnival was wound-up last
Saturday with the running of
the £5150 Alister Clark Stakes
at Moonee Valley. The six-to-
four-on chance Prince Darius
found Baron Boissier too good
on the day another upset
added to the many that have
been features of the carnival.
The hope was expressed here
last week that Prince Darius
wouldn’t suffer any after-
effects from the stomach-
trouble which caused his with-
drawal from the St. Leger.
Apparently he was still off-
color. Prince Darius ran well
in the Alister Clark, but not
within a stone of the form he
showed at his previous races in
Melbourne this autumn.
Melbourne’s top-flight
apprentice Geoff Lane rode a
perfect race on Baron Boissier.
On his day the winner is a
generous galloper as he
showed in the Hotham Handi-
cap last spring—and Lane made
use of his early pace to get a
break on the field, nursed him
in front, then, three from home,
sooled him further ahead to a
winning break. Prince Darius
led the chase along the Straight
after the leader but couldn’t
close the gap.
With Sailor’s Guide a tired
horse, Prince Delville hurt, and
Prince Darius suspect for fit
ness, Tulloch should have
things his own way during the
big racing in Sydney.
This page’s pre-race comment
on the Australian Cup said that
few good horses had won the
event. Certainly this year’s
winner has no claim to great-
ness. Dream Son, who raced
right away from one of the
weakest fields ever to contest
an important handicap, was,
prior to his win, a trial horse.
That Bundabah started favorite
in the Cup is fair evidence of
the strength of the field. Prior
to this visit to Melbourne,
Bundabah was eligible for
restricted events in Sydney.
Her Melbourne visit estab-
lished Gay Satin as the best
three-year-old filly racing in
Australia. In two starts, the
Elms Handicap and A. V.
Kewney Stakes, she proved
much too good for the Vic-
torian fillies, and for the
Adelaide star, Cherete. She is
owned by the Oakleigh Stud, in
N. S. Wales, but raced on lease
by Sydney bookmaker L. G.
Burke. On her Melbourne
form, she seems to have the
Randwick Adrian Knox Stakes
at her mercy.
This is a vintage year for
two-year-olds in Melbourne.
Misting stands out as the best
colt in Australia, Nilento is
not far behind him, and the
final day of the V.R.C. autumn
carnival showed that the
Empyrean colt, Planetoid, is a
top-class youngster. Planetoid
was lightly raced in the spring.
Twice he came up against Mist-
ing, and was well-beaten by
that colt. Produced in the
Hopeful Stakes at Flemington,
a maiden event at set weights,
he was never off the bit to
canter home in the smart time
of I.o|.
Master of the St. Albans
Stud, Geelong, H. G. Ray-
mond, derived a lot of satisfac-
tion from But Beautiful’s win
in the first Hollymount
Handicap a six-furlongs
event for two-year-old fillies
—at Moonee Valley. He went
to Adelaide to buy her dam,
the unraced Belle Etoile,
because he was attracted by
the mare’s blood-lines. Mated
with the imported Paramount,
Belle Etoile produced But
Beautiful, such an attractive
chestnut filly that Raymond
decided to race her himself.
It was a wise decision. In the
spring But Beautiful won the
Mimosa Stakes on Melbourne
Cup day and her comfortable
win in the Hollymount last
Saturday promises further
success. The dam, Belle Etoile,
is by Beau Cheval, from Titan
Star, by Enfield (imp.), from
Lady Meteor, by Great Star
(imp.). It is a family that,
includes V.R.C. Derby winner
Lucrative, Hotham Handicap
winner Balkan Prince, and
the useful stayer Sunish.
Second heat of the Holly-
mount went to Chic, who was
sent out a warm favorite
although she was racing first
up after a three-months - spell.
The filly led from end to end.
It is not surprising she has
speed to spare. She is by the
imported Jambo, who was
himself a smart sprinter in
England and the sire of that
flying machine, Love to All,
out of Sweet Dianne, by
Newtown Wonder.
Last Saturday’s meeting
was the first at Moonee
Valley for some weeks. The
club took advantage of the
break t<4 get work well under
way for the erection of a new
stand. Racegoers noted on
Saturday that the old wooden
stand had been torn down,
and that foundations had been
poured for the new building.
The concrete stand will be
a lot more spacious than the
old wooden affair, and should
complement the existing build-
ings to the stage that all
patrons will be able to see the
racing in comfort.
* ■* ■*
Trotting
In an exciting blanket-finish
South Australian pacer Free
Hall (25-to-l) outstayed
Sibelia (N.S.W., 3-to-l favorite)
and Victorian First Division
(10-to-l) to win the 1958
£lO,OOO Inter-Dominion Pacing
Championship at Wayville
(S.A.) on Saturday night. The
three horses flashed over the
line locked together and the
judge called for a photo The
verdict was a head between
Free Hall and Sibelia with a
nose to First Division. Cham-
pion N. S. Wales mare Sibelia
ran a grand race from the
12yds. mark and recorded the
fastest time of 2.9 7-JO.
The final of the £3OOO Sires’
Produce Stakes at Harold Park
on Saturday night was a
thriller. Heroic Action, at
66-to-l, won by a neck from
Smoko (9-to-l), with 6-to-4
favorite Dusty Miller a neck
away in third place—-Gorrelate
was a further neck away fourth.
Smoko and Heroic Action were
the leaders for the first two
laps, and at the bell were
challenged by Marinetto and


Crownrae. Dusty Miller put in
a claim in the straight.
In a desperate finish Heroic
Action was able to beat Smoko,
with Dusty Miller and Gorrelate
challenging strongly. Champion
New Zealander Tobacco Road
failed to get away at all and
took no part in the race.
Second favorite Illawarra Ayr
broke at the start and lost con-
siderable ground. He seemed to
be a good thing beaten, as he
caught the field in the second
lap and went on to be a close
sixth.
+ +
Assorted Sports
First day of the 1958 Aus-
tralian athletic champion-
ships in Brisbane:
The highlight was the clash
between Herb Elliott and Merv
Lincoln in the mile. Tipped to
be the “mile of the century,” it
was far from that. A slow race
(Elliott won in 4min. B.Bsec.), it
was a battle of tactics, with Elliott
the tactician. When he sprinted
over the last few hundred yards,
Lincoln couldn’t pace him.
Elliott thus proves that he is the
greater runner of the two. With
different tactics (running in front
all the way) he won their two
earlier clashes this year, both in
under 4min. He had also con-
vincingly beaten Lincoln for the
1957 Australian mile-title, at
Olympic Park, Melbourne, last
March, in 4.0.4, the fastest time
in which an Australian mile-title
has been run.
Hec Hogan, now 25, won his
seventh successive Australian
100yds. title in what might be his
last defence. Truly a remarkable
effort. His first win, in 1952, when
he beat reigning champion John
Treloar, was also in Brisbane. His
time this year was 9.65ec., ,2sec.
slower than his time last year and
.3sec. slower than his record time
(9.35ec.) set in Sydney in 1954. On
Saturday, too, promising Sydney
sprinter Jim McCann won an
invitation junior 100yds. in 9.55ec.,
faster than Hogan’s time.
McCann, who also won the Aus-
tralian broad-jump title on Satur-
day, could be Hogan’s successor
as Australia’s No. 1 sprinter.
One or two other events —Nicky
Birks, of S.A., won the javelin-
throw with a new Australian record
of 235 ft. to beat his own
record,' set in this year’s N.S.W.
championships; N.S.W.’s Peter
Hanlin won the shot-put—like
Hogan, for the seventh successive
time; Kevan Gosper, acclaimed
the “unluckiest loser” at the Mel-
bourne Olympics—he failed to
qualify for the final of the 400-
metres though his semi-final time
proved to be faster than the
winner’s time in the final —won the
440yds., as expected; and Dave
Power somewhat . unexpectedly
came in ahead of Alan Lawrence
in the six-miles.
* # *
“Sandgrove”: John R.
Reid, who will lead the
Enzedders on their fifth tour
of England this year, is un-
questionably the best all-
round cricketer N.Z. has pro-
duced. He has scored over
7000 runs and taken more than
200 wickets in first-class cricket,
quite apart from his Lancashire
League feats ; on top of which
he is a brilliant field, a com-
petent ’keeper (reserve ’keeper
with the 1949 side in England)
and a successful skipper. Born
in Auckland, married, the
powerfully-built Reid is all con-
centration and purpose on the
field and, like Miller and
Benaud, can change the course
of a match by his own efforts
with bat and ball. Rheumatic
trouble at 17 forced him out
of Rugby Union, at which he
showed high promise. He is 29
and an oil-company executive
at Oamaru.
Richie Benaud’s very success-
ful South African tour con-
cluded with his beating famous
old English spin-bowler S. F.
Barnes’s 1913-14 record of 104
wickets for a tour of South
Africa. Benaud took 106
wickets in all. This season’s
cricket in South Africa has
shown both Benaud and Alan
Davidson to be in the top
flight of all-rounders —as bats-
men, bowlers and fieldsmen.
“Atala”: In one of Adelaide’s
cricket semi - finals, Port
Adelaide v. West Torrens, it
was any man’s game on the
first day till two Magarey
Medallists, Lindsay Head and
Bob Hank, got together and
put on 104 in just over an hour
for West Torrens’ seventh
wicket; after which Port was
virtually out of the game. Head,
1955 Magarey winner, is a
State cricketer and footballer ;
Hank, now 34, who won the
Magarey in 1946 and 1947 and
is a former State football
captain, was, incidentally, West
Torrens’ “best - and - fairest”
footballer for the ninth time
last year
“A.U.A.”: Australian
cricket lost a potential wicket-
keeper through the death of
Brian Tennant Swift, 21-year-
old son of Sir Brian Swift, a
leading Adelaide gynaecologist.
The son was killed in a road-
accident in England early this
month. At Cambridge Uni-
versity he had won his cricket
Blue last year, and as a wicket-
keeper had taken 47 wickets —
more than any other university
’keeper since the war. While
at St. Peter’s College, Adelaide,
he created a ’keeping record for
the inter-collegiate matches
between that college and Prince
Alfred College by taking 12
wickets in the 1954 game.
“Maros”: Two unusual
examples of near hat-tricks —
In the Perth pennant-match on
Feb. 22 between Nedlands and
Subiaco, Nedlands fast-bowler
Oliver had taken two wickets
off successive balls, both out
the same way, caught behind
by ’keeper Illingworth, but
missed having to buy a round
for his team-mates when Illing-
worth dropped a snick straight
into his gloves off the next
ball. In the Melbourne
pennant-match which ended on
March 1 in an outright win for
Prahran over North Melbourne,
former Victorian Shield fast-
bowler John Power took 6-25
and 7-7 for Prahran, and in
those two excellent efforts took
two wickets with successive
balls four times, but on every
occasion failed to cap it.
“Middle ’n’ Leg” corrects a
bloomer:
“Mid-on” grassed a sitter when
he wrote that “the results of
women’s Tests and other important
games are never recorded in
Wisden.. ..” (B. 29/1/’5B).
Actually the performances of the
girls have often caught the attention
of that august almanack. For
instance, the 1952 edition gives a
lull coverage of the three Tests
played (at Scarborough, Worcester
and The Oval) between the English
and Australian women during the
summer of 1951, together with Test-
averages, a synopsis of other
games and a two-page review of the
tour by Nancy Joy.
Similar treatment is accorded the
tour by the New Zealand girls in
1954; which figures can be seen on
pp. 978-985 in the 1955 Wisden.
Jest-matches were played at Head-
mgley, Worcester and The Oval.
Of interest is the fact that a
certain, amount of “McGlewitis” or
“Baileyism,” whichever you will,
pervaded the atmosphere during the
latter portion of the Worcester Test.
In this period the Enzedderesses had
the choice of scoring 338 runs to
win, or playing for a draw. They
chose, or had thrust upon them, the
latter course. At all events they suc-
ceeded in playing-out time, thanks
to Joyce Clothier of Matamata, who
occupied the crease for 5| hours for
a match-saving 37 not-out. In the
course of this somnambulistic inn-
ings Mary Duggan (England’s
captain out here at present) sent
down 17 consecutive maidens at one
stage; she finished wth 1-26; off 34
overs! La Kiwis were 6-174 at the
bell.
On page 985 of the same Wisden
there is recorded the feat of Mrs.
Sheila Nefdt, who, while playing for
Western Province at Cape Town
(South Africa) on Feb. 1, 1954, did
the hat-trick in each Transvaal inn-
ings. A famous performance, surely,
for, as far as men’s first-class cricket
is concerned, it has been duplicated
by no more than five players; two
of whom, A. E. Trott and T. J.
Matthews, were Australians.
Yes, Wisden definitely gives
women’s cricket a fair go. An
article entitled “Worpen Look
Ahead” appears on page 889 in the
1957 edition, and, on page 954,
there is given the address of Miss
N. Rheinberg, the hon. sec. to the
Women’s Cricket Association
(England), this fact, incidentally,
being recorded on the same page as
the addresses of the secretaries to the
various and austere Boards of
Control.
“Atala”: Best bowling-
effort in Adelaide’s A-grade
cricket this season was 23-year-
old West Torrens fast-bowler
Ross McLennan’s 10-39 against
University on Feb. 8. The
previous-best was East Torrens
and former S.A. left-arm pace-
bowler Ken Horsnell’s 9-26
against Senior Colts on Aus-
tralia Day. McLennan and
team-mate Ray McCormick
tied, with 55 wickets each, as
the leading wicket-takers in
Adelaide’s A-grade last season.
In the last two Sheffield
Shield matches of 1957-58
Victoria defeated S.A. on the
first innings and W.A. out-
right. Even had it won both
games outright Victoria could
not have deprived N.S.W. of
the Shield. Victorian skipper
Loxton has been ultra-cauti-
ous and unenterprising all
through, and at least twice
refused to accept a challenge
and “make a game of it.”
Apropos, at least one Vic-
torian batsman, John Shaw,
staked a fair sort of claim this
season for a Test place, while
two left-hand batsmen,
Crompton and Huntington,
did really well on occasion.
* * *
“Keima”: Three 100-metre
swim world-records all stand at
61.5 sec.—the women’s free-
style, set by Dawn Fraser,
backstroke (John Monckton)
and butterfly (Japanese Takashi
Ishimoto). Wonder which one
would start favorite if it came
to a race between the three,
all swimming their own style?
* * *
If, as is expected, Australia
is allotted the 1959 Canada
Cup, it will be the biggest golf-
ing year in Australia’s history.
To bring golfers here from 32
countries will set the sponsors
back £70,000. However, this is
not particularly worrying
Ampol and General Dynamics,
an American firm, which will
jointly sponsor the Canada
Cup. This year’s cup will be
played in Mexico.
* * *
“Bicky”: Re that reference
to the Victorian Shield
cricketers who are also Aus-
tralian Rules footballers (B.
29/1/’58)," two top stars, one
in each sport, have played in
both. One is Laurie Nash,
South Melbourne football star
of pre-war days (considered by
some the greatest footballer
ever) who was fast-bowler for
Australia in two Tests. The
other is cricketer Keith
Miller, who played football for
St. Kilda in the V.F.L. just
after the war.


WHEN YOU VALUE
Old Photographs
why trust them to door to door
canvassers? Send them to a firm
of 20 years’ standing. We will
quote size, coloring, framing,
spotting, etc.
SEND YOUR PHOTOS TO US
PROGRESS PHOTOS,
Midway Arcade,
256 Collins St., Melbourne,
Victoria.
&
Al
mi
pj
p/p
l£
&
KSn
3^>
4 U.
_-j?
Cc:.rp^
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Copy of Our Sandhill Country,
by A. M. Duncan Kemp. —6684.
To buy Vol. 1 (No. 1 to No. 5)
of “Australian Wild Life,” pub-
lished by the Australian Wild Life
Preservation Society, 1934-39. —
6683.
To buy a set of labelled rock-
samples of the more common types
of rocks. —6685.
Aboriginal curios, boomerangs,
etc., for Cub pack.—66B6.
To buy copy of Thomas Hardy’s
poem The Dynasts. —6687.
Information Sought
What kind of winds are the
following: (1) bise, (2) harmattan,
(3) mistral and (4) simoom ?
(1) A keen, dry n. or n.-n.-e, wind
prevalent in Switzerland and
neighboring parts of France, Ger-
many and Italy. (2) A dry, parching
land-wind blowing during December,
January and February on the coast
of Upper Guinea in Africa; it
obscures the air with a red dust. (3)
A violent, cold n.-w. wind experi-
enced in the Mediterranean
provinces of France and neighboring
districts. (4) A hot, dry, sutfocating
sand-wind which sweeps across the
African and Asiatic deserts in spring
and summer.
* * * *
Information on artist Thomas
Bock ?
(From Percival Serle’s Dictionary
of Australian Biography.) Born at
Sutton Coldfield, EngiantJ, in 1790,
Bock was apprenticed to an engraver
at Birmingham, later practising in
London as an engraver and minia-
ture-painter. He travelled to
Hobart (Tasmania), about the year
1824, and was one of the exhibitors
at the first exhibition of pictures held
in Australia, in January, 1845, at
Hobart. He’s represented in the
Hobart Gallery, the Beattie collec-
tion at the Launceston Museum, and
at the Mitchell Library. He died
in Hobart in 1857.
* * * *
(1) Who was the Austrian Arch-
duke assassinated at the start of
World War I? (2) Why did his
assassination lead to war, and what
were the first steps towards war ?
(3) How did Great Britain become
involved? (4) When did Russia
come in, and when withdraw ? (5)
Was Russia an ally of Britain in
1914 ?
(1) Archduke Francis Ferdinand,
nephew of Francis Joseph, Emperor
of Austria. Born in 1863, be became
heir-apparent on the suicide of
Prince Rudolf (1889); in 1900 he
contracted a morganatic marriage,
his future children not having the
right of succession. On June 28,
1914, when on a State visit to
Sarajevo, capital of Bosnia, he, with
his wife, was shot dead by a
Bosnian student, Gavrilo Prinzip.
(2) The basic causes of World
War I cannot be given in a
half-dozen sentences. They are
bound up with Germany’s “game”
of Power-politics, spheres of influ-
ence of various countries, etc. The
murder of the Archduke, which
“triggered off” the war, was one
act in the plans of a revolutionary
movement among the southern Slavs
plotting to bring about one king-
dom of all the Serbs (Slavs)-y-some
of whom were incorporated in the
Austro - Hungarian Empire. The
Archduke, on the other hand,
wanted a “triple monarchy” embra-
cing Austrians, Hungarians and
Slavs.
Though the Government of Serbia
was proved to have had no com-
plicity with the Archduke’s murder,
Austria, with Germany’s backing,
presented an ultimatum to Serbia on
July 23, 1914. On the advice of
Russia, which had earlier informed
Vienna that unreasonable demands
ori Serbia could not leave her
(Russia) indifferent, Serbia, on the
25th, agreed to all but two of the
Austrian demands. Austria rejected
Serbia's reply, and on July 29, with
Russia mobilising near the Austrian
border, began the bombardment of
the Serbian capital, Belgrade.
(3) At the British Cabinet meeting
on Aug. 1, when war between Ger-
many and France seemed imminent, it
was decided to notify Germany that
Britain could not ignore any threat
to Belgium (whose neutrality both
countries had guaranteed in 1839).
Germany then asked Belgium to
allow passage through of its troops,
which Belgium rejected. On Mon-
day, Aug. 3, Germany declared war
on France, and on Aug. 4 invaded
Belgium. That evening Britain’s
ultimatum was presented to Ger-
many, with a time-limit which was
to expire at midnight. No formal
reply was given and at midnight on
Aug. 4 a state of war automatically
came into being between Britain
and Germany.
(4) Russia invaded the German
piovince of East Prussia in the first
week of August, 1914, and withdrew
fiom the war (after the Bolshevik
revolution) in December, 1917.
(5) Yes. Britain, France and
Russia were allied together in the
Triple Entente.
* * * •
(1) Who invented the hydroplane ?
(2) Was the invention ever improved
on ?
(1) It was invented by Glenn
Curtiss; it took the shape of an
aeroplane with a pontoon fitted to
the underportion, enabling it to
rest on water. (2) Yes. A develop-
ment of the hydroplane was the
C.M.B. (coastal jmotor-boat), which
did good work for the British Navy
during War I. The boats were cap-
able of 30 knots, were upwards of
40ft. in length and carried one
torpedo, which was discharged aft
and tail first. They were smooth-
water craft, able to travel a little
faster than German destroyers, and
were very effective in night-opera-
tions. Those attached to the Dover
Patrol laid mines off Zeebrugge.
* * * *
Some details of the Royal Innis-
killing Fusiliers ?
They were raised in 1690 from the
forces which defended Enniskillen
for William III; first and second
battalions respectively were the 27th
and 108th regiments of Foot. The
Fusiliers fought at the Boyne and
Siege of Limerick, in the 1715
Rebellion in Scotland and at
Culloden, 1746. After the Maida
campaign the Fusiliers went to the
Peninsula, then to Waterloo, taking
part in two South African
campaigns before going to India
for the Mutiny. During World War
T the regiment saw active service in
France, Flanders, Macedonia,
Gallipoli, Egypt and Palestine.
After the war it was reduced to one
battalion, linking with the Royal
Irish Fusiliers to form a single
corps.
* * * *
How does a diesel-engine work ?
In 1892 Dr. Rudolf Diesel, experi-
menting with the internal-combus-
tion engine, devised an engine able
to operate on heavy fuels such as
crude oils. In this (the diesel-engine)
the induction-stroke draws a charge
of air into the cylinder, as with
normal internal-combustion engines.
The cylinder-head, however, is so
designed that the following compres-
sion-stroke builds up a very high
pressure, between 500-6001 b. per
sq.in. This is accompanied by the
generation of great heat, more than
enough to ignite the charge of fuel
sprayed into the cylinder through a
jet by means: of a powerful fuel-
pump. Ignition takes place, with the
u.ual result of sudden expansion of
the burning mixture, forcing the
piston (the only movable part, of
the chamber containing the expand-
ing gases) downwards, in the power-
st'-oke. The exhaust-stroke follows.
As well as operating on crude
fuels, the diesel-engine uses a
simpler fuel-injection system than
the carburettor, and needs no
external means of ignition, such as
the electric spark generated by the
ignition-system in the normal engine.
Although generally made on the
.four-stroke principle, diesel-engines


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO JOHN JAMES WILLIS late of
Newcastle.—TAKE NOTICE that INA
lONA WILLIS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3914 of 1957 on the
grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse
and is asking for the exercise of the
Court’s discretion under S. 19 (2) (a)
of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899-1957
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 15th day of May 1958 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from CHARLES GRIFFITHS, Solicitor,
107-109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New
South Wales. —J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
HOLIDAY RESORTS
Torquay, Victoria,
Offers holiday bookings from
2nd February onwards.
g. r. McCartney,
Victorian Estate Agent,
Phone 366.
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
THIS
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
of high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
"National” Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plans,
Music, etc.
Built entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing. Agents—
S TONEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W. C. Penfold A Co. Pty. Ltd.
■ Norman Bros. Ptjr. Ltd.
. Vardon Price Ltd.
. Docket Book Co. (Ansi.)
Beetroot grinned. “Well,
I’ll be ——! I feel better
already.”
“In which case, get to blazes
out of this, I’m busy.”
A ND then it had to happen ;
one of those coincidences
that belong to real life and not
to pale fiction.
An urgent call from the local
High School. . . Yes, it was
for old Jallop. Suddenly col-
lapsed. Fit, or stroke, or some-
thing. Staff said he was a
gonner, and the Head found it
difficult to hide his satisfaction.
George gave old Jallop a
needle of something and told
the staff, “Not on your life,
he isn’t. Good for another
twenty years.”
The Head himself almost col-
lapsed.
Old Jallop sat up and wanted
to know where he was. Then
he saw George. He shivered
and moaned softly.
“You’re still on earth, old
man,” said George, “and likely
to be for a long time.” George
laughed. “You’re not there yet,
old man, but you soon will be
if you don’t give up teaching.”
“Give it up! ” croaked old
Jallop miserably. He collected
a lew more of his wits. “But
couldn’t you ... oh my, but
is it possible?”
The ambulance carted old
Jallop off to hospital.
“Will he, do you think, get
—I mean, what are the poor
old fellow’s chances?” asked
the Head anxiously.
“Oh, he'll be all right,” said
George in his reassuring tones.
“But not fit to teach any more.”
The Head forgot himself.
“He never was. But I am glad
it isn’t any more serious,” he
added.
George hurried off, a very
busy man. And the Head
voiced what was becoming a
general opinion:
“That man is a born doctor.”
are sometimes of the two-stroke
type. The latter is an internal-
combustion engine in which the
compression and explosion stages
are combined, occurring at every
alternate stroke; i.e., the engine
has a power-impulse at each revolu-
tion of the crankshaft, instead of
every other revolution, as in the
four-stroke engine.
Brief Answers
E.J.D.: Your question has been
referred to our coin s-expert;
information will be posted to
y0u....J.H.: (.1) These pension
matters are to a great extent at the
discretion of the Department of
Social Services. A man whose wife
had money would probably get a
pension, but it might be a reduced
one. (2) This man would probably
get the full pension, but in all
pensioners’ questions it’s best to
refer the full facts to the Department
of Social Services. (3) The use of
petrol and imported oil has an effect
on the economy of the country. In
the first place, it increases the price
ol many commodities; secondly, it
permits Governments to make a sub-
stantial revenue out of taxing it. It
affects adversely the country’s
balance-of-ti ade with other countries
and, in the case of war, the fact that
these fuels must be imported has an
immediate effect on the free move-
ment of the country’s commodities,
citizens and forces... .D.8.P.: It is
quite clear that you have not given
all the facts. Solicitors do not in
general refuse to do things without
good cause. Wills can fail for a
number of reasons, such as marriage
or insanity, and it is nAt possible
t n assist you until we know the
reason the solicitors give for their
action.... S.H.C.: Write Tyrrell's
Pty., Ltd., 202 George Street,
Sydney... .C.S.: Can’t help you
there. Suggest you write British
Medical Association, B.M.A.
House, 135-137 Macquarie Street,
Sydney... .X.X.: (1) “Summer of
the 17th Doll” was reviewed in
The Bulletin of January 18, 1956.
(2) Information is forthcoming,
and will be posted to y0u....
J.L.G.; (1) Write Japanese Con-
sulate-General, 66 Pitt ftreet,
Sydney. (2) None that we know
of. The four great ephemerides
(astronomical almanacs) in the
world are the “Nautical Almanac”
(Britain), the “American
Ephemeris,” the • “Connaissance des
Temps” (France) and the “Berliner
Jahrbuch”... .H.F.W.: Basically,
“Society” pars, are concerned with
the “passing parade,” and are just
about all-embracing in scope and
subject-matter; “Aboriginalities” in
the main have an outback flavor,
and deal with animals, country
people and rural happenings. Some
pars., of course, are of a borairline
nature, and could be fitted into
either section X.X.: (1) Stand-
ard length is 50-metres. (2) In the
1896 Olympic Games at Athens the
swimming events were held in the
bay; in 1900, in Paris, in the
Seine; at St. Louis, in 1904, they
were held over a 110yds. course in
still water in the open (races in the
1904 Games were not in metric
distances). In all Games since,
swimming-races have all been
Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.
Claims which state the
section in which paragraphs
appear and the date of
appearance will be paid more
promptly than those which
don’t.
held in standard pools over metric
distances.. . .8.D.G.: (1) See The
Torch, by M. H. Ellis. (Price 205.,
post 9d., available from Angus and
Robertson, 89 Castlereagn Street,
Sydney.) (2) It would be Sydney
Looks Back, by Isadore Brodsky.
(Price 425., post lid., also avail-
able from Angus and Robertson.)
... .J.R.McL.: See The Principles
of Successful Share Buying and
Investing, by Geoffrey C. Harrison,
B.Ec., published by “Rydge’s
Business Journal” and available
from Angus and Robertson. (Price
£4 45., post lid.) K. 8.: (1)
The lllawarra Shorthorn breed of
dairy-cattle was developed in the
lllawarra district (N.S.W.) in the
latter part of the last century. The
breed has been described as being
“principally English Durham Short-
horn with a dash of Ayrshire.”
The lllawarra Shorthorn has pro-
duced some exceptional milkers.
(2) The Sydney-Wollongong rail-
way-line was opened in several
stages. Sydney to Waterfall was
completed in March, 1886, and
Wollongong to Scarborough in June,
1887. Ibe intervening section
between Waterfall and Scarborough
was completed and the through-
line opened by October, 1888.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
N.N.: You’d better take “Man-
groves” to the nearest swamp
G.L.: Not our style; try a less
technical approach.... 8.V.: The
third of your 15 quatrains was an
elevation to mediocrity... .R.L.K.:
Those “swirling skirts” and “click-
ing castanets” are swirling and
clicking in the basket... .S.D.:
Fat man on a pogo-stick bounced
0ut....J.T.: It would do nicely
for a school paper... .W.McV.:
Thanks for sentiments, but verse
overwritten T.N.8.: A Christ-
mas-cake of metaphors A.P.:
Your strident shearer has been
locked in the office safe C.H.:
Well, it seems to stand and dream,
like an ibis... .L.S.: There’s some-
thing there E.G.: You need
more than mere facility with
w o r d 5... .K.R.: Sorry, not
imaginative enough K.E.:
Physical-culture crank now doing
his jerks in the post on the way
back 8.J.: “Up to Scratch”
wasn’t G.S.McA.: Won’t take
any odds about your getting a pay-
out from that bookie... .A.H.:
Imaginary conversation between
Sir Edmund Hillary and Dr.
Fuchs at the South Pole has a cer-
tain glacial charm, but that’s about
a 11.... L.S.: Prune vigorously and
reconstruct the ending, and it
might pass 0.M.: Union-
leader hunted off the premises....
J.C.: Come in, as a warning to all:
One case, a fussy housewife—she’s neat,
she’s clean, aloof.
But if her gas-stove blows sky-high her
exit’s through the roof.
. .. J.R.L.: “P enelop e” too
ambitious L.H.T.: Let’s see
something on a different theme —
rhat one’s been done pretty thor-
oughly over here S.G.: At least
your singing fish are original
J.O’L.: Tennyson, who said his
“s’s” hissed at him like snakes,
would hardly have approved of your
line “And soothe Seif and its seeth-
ing seas”... .H.B. (N.S.W.): Your
stony poems are very nice but not
with those strained' rhymes and in
that strange no-language mixing
Victorian poeticisms with the cliches
of the leader-writer. Use the
language of your natural, everyday
speech... .H.S.G.: We’ve met a lot
worse birds than “Kerrigan
Chook”... .Jim Clancy: Lie here:
THE ALSATIAN
As a pup he was given me,
By the boss on Turnback Station,
The biggest dog I ever seen,
He was a half-bred Alsatian.
And in yardin’ and in countin’ sheep.
He could do it to the letter,
Anyone who saw him work,
Said they never saw a better.
Every hundred sheep through the race,
This showed the dog had sense,
For he failed not once to scratch
His mark upon the fence.
One day the Alsatian jumped the fence,
He was in a playful mood,
Just after he had been fed,
And was not after food.
The pet sheep just looked at him,
There was murder in its eye,
It disliked that dog from the start,
I’ve often wondered why.
Well, the tragedy it happened then,
Before I could collect me wits,
That pet sheep attacked him,
And tore the Alsatian to bits.
Well, yer all can laugh and sneer,
But I had him since he was a pup,
He would not fight a sheep,
’Twas the way I brought him up.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
ECONOMIC PRESCRIPTION
YJRITISH press-comment on
the first report of the
Cohen Council:
London “Financial Times” ,
“Now that it has produced its
first report it is interesting to
recall why the Council on
Prices, Productivity and
Incomes was first set up. The
idea was that three eminent
and impartial men would be
able to exercise an influence
on wage-negotiations and
particularly on arbitration-
decisions by publishing from
time to time their considered
opinion on the state of the
economy. It was hoped that
people who had ceased to pay
much attention to warnings
from a political Chancellor of
the Exchequer would pay more
attention to the non-political
advice of such a body. As far
as the trade-unions were con-
cerned this never seemed to
be a hope of much substance,
but it seemed conceivable that
it would nevertheless influence
public opinion and through
public opinion the arbitrators.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph” :
“Whether the report will con-
tribute either to political or to
industrial peace is another
matter. It rejects any suggestion
that it is the unions which have
been wholly responsible for the
unexampled price-rise of the
past 10 years. The Government
does not escape criticism, either
in general or in detail. But the
burden of this criticism is not
that its policy has been wrong
—only that it was not adopted
soon enough. And it is noth-
ing to the weight of argument
marshalled against practically
every course of action suggested
by the Opposition in the past
few years. Subsidies, price-
controls, import-controls, build-
ing-licensing, dividend-limita-
tion all are rejected as a
means of bringing the present
inflation to an end. The idea
that a gentle rise in prices
should be not merely tolerated
but actively encouraged is
blown sky-high in a chapter
which should become a classic.”
The same : “On the crucial
issue of wages the committee
gives two pieces of advice. For
the immediate future, it says,
categorically, that an increase as
great as the rise of the cost-
of-living index over the past
year would not be justified. As
it is, wages have risen in the
past 12 months faster than
prices. In any case, it adds, all
those ‘who are called on to
take any part, by conciliation,
arbitration and the like, in
wage-negotiations’ should
always consider as an alter-
native to higher wages a policy
of lowering prices. The logic
London “Daily Mail”
THE LOCUST
of this is impeccable, fpr if
prices do not actually fall in
some industries, especially those
where productivity is rising
fastest, the prospect for stability
in prices as a whole is small
indeed. It is a suggestion,
nevertheless, which has revolu-
itionary implications.”
* * *
London “Daily Mail” : “The
committee are on safer ground
when they put in a good word
for the consumer. They say
that things like piece-rates and
bonuses which benefit employer
and employed ‘are not equally
well designed to pass on a
handsome share of those fruits
to the consumers.’
“How true! Millions of un-
organised people have stood
impotently by while the cash-
prizes of industry were being
handed-out, well knowing that
they would have to pay for
them in the form of dearer;
goods.
“This could not go on indefi-
nitely. If some wages are tied
to living-costs by a sliding-
scale, why should not every
form of income salaries,
pensions, interest, insurances—
be so treated?
“Why should some sections
always benefit from inflation
while others always suffer? The
committee say that under a
total sliding-scale system prices
would rapidly rise and the result
would be heavy unemployment
and distress.
“Their remedy, and the only
one, is to kill inflation. They
say the Bank-rate and credit-
squeeze measures of last
September should have been
introduced two years ago—
and they are right.”
* * *
London “Daily Herald"
C Labor ); “It [the report] does
one valuable thing. It blurts
out a truth which the Govern-
ment dare not proclaim. It
reveals the naked brutality of
the Tory policies. They can’t
work without unemployment.”
♦ * *
Oscar R. Hobson, in London
“News Chronicle": “When
Mr. Gaitskell says the report
is not a ‘scientific’ document
but a ‘political tract’ he is being
himself merely political.
“The report is as nearly
scientific and as little political
as any such document could
possibly be. It lives up to
the finest traditions of liberal
economic thinking.
“That thinking does not suit
everybody. But instead of
condemning the report as of no
authority, Mr. Gaitskell and
the Labor Party should surely
produce a reasoned and detailed
reply.
“In the course of that reply
they should make two vital
points clear. They should
demonstrate how, in the
absence of direction of labor,
inflation can be stopped with-
out permitting some increase in
unemployment.
“And they should state
clearly (which they have never
done) whether or to what
extent they believe that the
granting of the wage-demands
now pending is compatible with
the ending of inflation.”
* * *
London “Time and Tide” :
“The most urgent of all our
problems, the one which has
already done most harm and
which mawyet destroy us, is
inflation. 'Three distinguished
men were set to examine it
and to report their conclusions
without fear or favor direct to
the public. They did so, not
merely stating their conclu-
sions but explaining meticu-
lously how they arrived at
them. What was the. result?
Hardly a single public figure
who had not already accepted
similar conclusions was pre-
pared to admit even that they
were thoughtful and impartial.
“The Cohen Council has been
attacked on all grounds except
rational ones. The report, said
one trade-union leader, seems
to reflect the average age of
the men who composed it; as
though this were evidence that
it must be wrong. It would
be hard to find a more charac-
teristically modern argument.
“In fact, the Cohen Report
is a fine piece of non-political
reasoning, and there lies, the
root of the trouble. You
cannot have a rational discus-
sion without some common
ground, and too many people
in this country are no longer
trying to make the system work.
The doctrinaires simply refuse
to accept what does not fit
in with and promote their own
theories.
“ ‘Our objective,’ said the
Cohen Council, ‘should be to
stop inflation, not merely lo
moderate its course.’ But the
Left-wing economists are still
telling us that we can and
should live permanently with
a certain degree of inflation:
the injustices this would cause
apparently mean nothing to
them. It is impossible, says the
council, for a free and flexible


jFcviiJt in Ihc
Fuhirc
\
h
When we look around us at the youngsters
today the thoughts of most of us must be: What
a wonderful world they are stepping into: what
progress they will see in their time!
Yes, the world today is at the feet of Youth
—and particularly at the feet of Australian youth,
to whom marvellous opportunities must open with
the application of modern discoveries to this
country’s development.
Like all creation, it will take time to unfold,
but 1 believe that in the next ten years we will
see all around us here the marked signs of that
flowering.
For one thing—and this will add immeasurable
force to the impetus that methods of man’s recent
devising must bring—there will be an upsurge of
young and vigorous life in our population.
The statistical tables tell the story: For every
four young people now aged between fifteen and
nineteen years, we have five in the age-group
between ten and fourteen, and more than six in
the group up to ten years. More than a quarter
of the net gain in immigration since 1947 has been
in children under fifteen.
At the present rate of increase, the next ten
years should bring a rise of twenty-two-and-a-half
per cent, in the population; but in the same time,
the national work-force will have increased by no
less than thirty-eight per cent, and the number of
young people of marriageable age will have grown
to half as many again as they are today.
In other words, our young work-force is
increasing at almost double the rate of rise in
population.
This very fact will pose its incidental problems
—of education, the provision of schools, housing
and so on—but that is part of the test of our Faith
in Australia’s Future.
The liabilities we shoulder for raising and
training this newsprung life among us is as nothing
compared with the priceless human asset Australia
is acquiring.
economic system to work effi-
ciently without a perceptible,
though not catastrophic, margin
of unemployment. But how
many people really believe in
a free economic system? The
council hopes that ‘if any wage-
increases are granted in 1958
they will be substantially below
the average of the last few
years.’
“But that means somebody
will be left at the end of the
queue and no one is prepared
to put up with that. The
council indicates, what we all
know, that there is no logical
connection between wage-
restraint and dividend-limita-
tion. But it is not logic that
the politicians have to fear.
Mr. Ted Hill, for instance, the
leader of a great union, has
completely misunderstood the
council's comparison between
wage- and profit-rises.
“Perhaps the most useful of
all the Cohen Council’s recom-
mendations is that, where pro-
ductivity rises in one particular
industry, the benefit should be
passed on in lower prices rather
than higher wages. Only so
can inflation be checked and
the whole community benefit
The logic is unanswerable, but
what hope is there that it will
be accepted?
“Apart from the doctrinaires
and the professional mysta-
gogues, the facts about inflation
have been clear for a long
time. Those who keep trying to
confuse them bear a heavy
responsibility, but even so it
must be doubted whether many
people are sincerely puzzled-
puzzled, that is, about the
nature of inflation and the way
theoretically in which it could
be stopped. We are all puzzled
about how to stop it in prac-
tice.
“For, in practice, group after
group behaves as though noth-
ing had been said or written
about inflation at all. This
week the busmen presented
their case. It rested, they said,
on a mere attempt to restore
their position as it was in
1939. But this was deceptive.
They did not mean so much
that the purchasing - power of
their wages had gone down as
that certain other industrial
workers were now earning
relatively more.
“If that argument were to
be pressed throughout the
economic structure, if the
middle-classes were to demand
a restoration of their 1939 posi-
tion, if clergymen were to
compare their changed lot with
that of coalminers, the trade-
union movement would be the
first to cry out in indignation.
Where the additional revenue
was to come from worried the
busmen not at all. Envy is no
substitute for reason but it
provides a much stronger
motive power.
“Politically, universal
suffrage (‘For a republic,’ said
Jowett, ‘you must have repub -
licans’): economically, the un-
foreseen, unregulated effect of
inflation combined with penal
taxes: sociologically, the lack
of any common philosophy or
spiritual rudder: these three
things have put our society into
flux. And the third is the most
important, because on it
depends the result of the other
two. Democracies in the past
have generally had short lives
and bloody ends. If ours is
to be any exception, we must
urgently try to restore some
moral substratum to our
public affairs.”
U.K. Missile-bases
Few subjects have aroused
such varied and apparently in-
terminable argument as the
announcement of the Anglo-
American agreement on the
establishment in Britain of
bases for intermediate - range
missiles. Going over the subject
with its customary thorough-
ness, and answering particularly
those who would exclude
the missile from Britain
altogether, London “Econo-
mist” comments that “so long
as the West possesses these
bombs and the ability to get
at least some of them through
Russian defences, they are
bound to impose an element of
restraint on Soviet calcula-
tions” :
“If they were jettisoned, the
great inhibition would be
removed, and the overwhelm-
ing weight of Russian conven-
tional arms could be leaned
against western doors at any
time Mr. Khrushchev wished.
“The old argument still stays
valid: that it is better to run
a remote risk of nuclear war
—and it remains remote so
long as the terror in the
deterrent is plain to both sides
—than to face the consequences,
certainly unpleasant and pro-
bably bloody as well, of
stripping ourselves of our main
protection.
“But, if the West is to be
able to rely for the next few
years on its power of nuclear
retaliation, there are strong
reasons for believing that part
of this power will have to be
embodied in relatively short-
range missiles stationed in
Europe. The experts differ on
just how long a lead the
Russians enjoy in intercon-
tinental missiles. However, the


London “Daily Express”
TWO-WAY STRETCH
military planners can reason-
ably work on the more pessi-
mistic assumption, and this
suggests that in perhaps a year’s
time the Russians will be in
a position to launch a missile-
onslaught on the home-bases
of Strategic Air Command.
“Even this would not neces-
sarily be decisive, if the West
could be confident (and the
Russians afraid) that it could
still get enough planes off the
ground and through the
Russian defences with H-
bombs in their racks. But the
Russians have also been im-
proving their anti-aircraft
missiles. If these have really
been improved enough,
Strategic Air Command faces a
double threat which makes it
doubtful whether the deterrent
can any longer be safely en-
trusted to aeroplanes alone.
“In this situation,” the
“Economist” adds, “Britain’s
responsibility ought to be plain.
Whether or not the missile-
sites will enhance the beauties
of the English landscape, this
is the most sensible place for
them to be deployed. Placed
here, they do not involve any
addition to the list of nuclear-
armed powers, which it ought
to be the aim of Western
statesmen to keep as short as
possible. Putting them in
Britain does not do the political
harm that will be done if they
are put in Germany, as
General Norstad appeared to
suggest. Strategic missile-sites
in Germany would make a
major political problem more
difficult to solve, and would
obstruct any possible future
attempt to separate the forces
facing each other in central
Europe. Indeed, since they
help the West to wield an effec-
tive deterrent from bases out-
side the centre of Europe, they
may make it easier for the
soldiers to contemplate changes
there.
“Above all, the missile-sites
do not materially add to the
risks that the British accepted
10 years ago when they gave
a home to atomic-bomb bases.
Britain is already a principal
target of Russian bombs and
missiles, should the deterrent
fail to deter ; to the extent that
they make the deterrent more
effective, Mr. Sandys’s new
sites decrease the risk. One of
the oddities of the anti-missile
campaign is that some of its
supporters are people who did
not demur when the bomb was
carried by aircraft with men
in them; it is the automatic
vehicle that they cannot
stomach.
“Yet the strategists have to
bear two points in mind. One
is that these intermediate-range
missiles are principally a stop-
gap weapon until the Americans
can get the long-range Atlas and
its kin into operation. Once
they are in service on sites in
the United States, the need
to keep these junior missiles
close up against the front line
may well become much less
urgent. Meanwhile, we have
to make do with the best that
is available, and although the
Thor is slow to launch and its
sites are vulnerable to attack
it has the decisive advantage,
over manned aircraft, of still
being impervious to Russian
defences.
“The second point is that the
start of work on the sites
should be neither hastened nor
retarded by considerations of
politics or propaganda. The
only relevant factor is the need
to have the sites ready when
the missiles become available.
It may be suspected that the
Americans are anxious to get
work visibly and energetically
under way in order to revive
the flagging morale of their
own public. But the purpose
of the deterrent is to deter
the other side, not to give Dutch
courage to one’s own ; and it
would be folly to begin work
too soon if another brand of
missile, requiring a different
kind of site, might become
available afterwards.
“That condition aside, there
is no evident ground for suppos-
ing that the chances of success
of a summit-conference, if and
when one proves possible,
would be improved by holding
up the work on these bases, or
damaged by pressing on with it.
Mr. Gaitskell has urged the
Government to wait until after
a summit-conference. It is hard
to see why.
“There are two opposite
kinds of ‘missile madness.’
One is to scatter these weapons
and their sites broadcast, with-
out reference to military con-
siderations, simply in order to
create an illusion of power;
the other, equally dangerous, is
to flinch away from them and
thus forgo the necessary reality
of power. Both must be
avoided if the West’s security
is to be preserved.”
U.K. Investment in
Australia
Fairly enough, Uncle Sam’s
investment in Australia
receives a good deal of grateful
publicity, but in the process
John Bull’s contribution often
tends to be overlooked. In a
letter to “M anchester
Guardian,” Australian Brian
Harrison, now Conservative
M.P. for Maldon, points out
that J.B.’s post-war stake in
Australia is more than twice
that of Uncle Sam:
“There is need of British
capital in places like Australia.
Since the war more than £6OO
million has been invested m
Australia from outside sources.
The vast majority, nearly £4OO
million, has come from this
country [Britain]. More is
needed. Yet Britain has every
right to be proud of the con-
tribution she has made. Un-
fortunately, too few people
know about it.
“There are many people, both
here [in Britain] and in Aus-
tralia, who believe it has mostly
been American capital which
has financed Australia’s
fantastic post-war expansion.
While it is true that America
invested more than £l6O million
there between 1947 and 1956,
this is less than half the British
total.
“Nevertheless, hundreds of
British industrialists still need
to be made aware of the oppor-
tunities that , exist for develop-
ing new markets in places like
Victoria. Scores of British and
American firms are already
established in the industrial
belt around Melbourne, but
there is room for many more.
The market to be served is
not merely the constantly grow-
ing Australian population, but
the whole of South-east Asia.
Here there are millions of
people waiting and willing to
buy the goods the West can
supply.
“What needs to be made clear
to British manufacturers is that
both these markets can more
easily be served from factories
in Australia, rather than from
plants in Britain, 10,000 miles
away.”
"The Stink of
Defeat"?
New York “H era 1 d
Tribune” commentator Joseph
Alsop, who lately made local
headlines after his reference to
London as “a city that all but
stinks of defeat,” is by no
stretch of imagination an
Anglophobe and, read in its
entirety, his two-column com-
ment on London —and* Britain
was more temperately
critical than the single quote
from it might suggest.
After his reference to the
smell of defeat which
followed some most affection-
ate sentiment —Alsop went on
to comment:
“In the post-war years, I
have made at least one visit of
inquiry to London each year.
In all that period, whether
under Labor Governments or
Conservative Governments, the
essential London drama has
been the same. Ity has
been the drama of the British
people grimly struggling to
maintain Britain’s historic role
as one of the great world
Powers, after the fearful
human and material and
strategic losses of the Second
World War.
“It has been a pretty mov-
ing drama to watch, but now
it seems to be coming to an


end. There are just too many
signs of the disarray that
always, in every army, foretells
the acceptance of defeat.
“For example, the feature
of British political life that has
always most amazed me was
the fact that, at any given
moment, almost everyone
from the Prime Minister
downward, at every level and
in every sphere, somehow
struck the same note. It
might be a belligerent note or
a friendly note or any other
kind of note. But it was
always the same.
“It used to make me feel
like a geologist climbing about
over an enormous rock, tap-
ping with his hammer every-
where, and always getting
exactly the same ‘ping’ or
‘pong,’ wherever he tapped.
But all this is over now. The
most extraordinary and dis-
cordant variety of notes is
now to be heard, from the
different leaders of the two
major parties, from the civil
servants and the Ministers
they are charged with advising,
even among the higher per-
manent staffs of single
ministries.
“The cause of this wholly
novel discord of ideas and
attitudes is really simple
enough. Britain today is
squarely confronted with at
le£st half - a - dozen major
problems which Britain alone
does not have the means to
solve.”
Taking Mr. Alsop up on
these criticisms, London “Daily
Express” submits that “the
normal climate of British
public life is one of party-strife
and violent argument. It has
been so almost since 1066”:
“Mr. Alsop states fairly the
problems which Britain faces
—which she has been facing
ever since the war ended—the
narrow margin on which the
sterling area works, the reli-
ance on Middle East oil, the
acute awareness of the Soviet
threat in that part of the
world, and so on.
“This is ‘the tragedy’ that
Mr. Alsop found in London
—a nation breaking-down
under the weight of its
burdens. And he says that
America bears part of the
blame.
“There is no tragedy. And
there is no need for any
American to feel a guilt-com-
plex on Britain’s behalf.
“The United States is
entitled to take any policy
decision that conforms with
the needs of its people.
“And Britain has the right,
the duty, and certainly the
power to safeguard her own
interests. She can see the
difficulties. They have been
obvious for years. But
Britqjn has not been defeated
by them, and will not be.”
Answering some of Alsop’s
more specific points, London
“Economist” weighs-up his
version of Britain’s economic
problems:
‘‘Approximately 22 per cent,
of Britain’s lifeblood, the hard-
currency revenue of the sterl-
ing area, comes from two
highly unstable ex-colonial
countries, Ghana and Malaya.”
“In 1956, Ghana and
Malaya, together with all the
U.K. colonies, accounted for
less than 11 per cent, of the
hard - currency earnings
(including sales of newly
mined gold) of the sterling
Washington "Post"
“MAYBE WE SHOULD PROPOSE SHOOTING THIS
STUFF ACROSS IN ROCKETS.”
area. Britain itself earned
nearly 57 per cent., and the
rest of the Commonwealth 32
per cent. The hard currency
earned by Ghana and Malaya
is a valuable prop to the
sterling - area system, but
Britain itself had a payments-
deficit of no more than £23
million with the dollar-area on
current account in 1956.
“A single individual, the
Sheikh of Kuwait, contributes
very nearly 10 per cent, of the
new capital annually available
ifl the sterling area.”
“That part of the Sheikh of
Kuwait’s income that is
invested outside Kuwait now
amounts to roughly £35 to £4O
million a year. If this were
10 per cent, of the new capital
annually available in the
sterling area, then the total
figure would be only £350 Jo
£4OO million. Britain’s capital
investment in 1956 was itself
£3139 million gross and
£1487 million net; probably
at least half as much again
should be added for the rest
of the sterling area.
“The great bulk of this
capital was provided by sav-
ings generated within the
countries where it was
invested, supplemented by a
capital-flow from the United
States and the international
organisations. Kuwait’s invest-
ment is large only in relation
to the total funds generated
within the sterling area that
are not used in the countries
where they are generated. But
that sum is made up only of
Britain’s capital-exports and
of the funds provided by
Ghana, Malaya, Kuwait and
other members of the sterling
area that are still adding-to
and not drawing-down their
sterling balances. Kuwait’s
share of the total capital gener-
ated within the sterling area is
less than one per cent.
‘‘The loss of the Middle
Eastern oil-sources, which are
now in ever-greater danger,
will [v/c] add a cruel billion
dollars a year to the debit side
of Britain’s national balance-
sheet.”
“Anything like this figure
could be arrived at only by
assuming (a) that the entire
Middle East oil-sources are
lost, not only to Britain, but
also to the rest of the world,
and (b) that sufficient dollar
oil could be made available to
make good the loss of the
Middle East oilfields, which
is impossible. Mr. Alsop is
describing as a loss unique to
Britain a risk that concerns
the whole of the West —and
which could hardly occur in
circumstances other than
those leading to a third world
war.”
Various Voices
Secretary of State, Mr.
Dulles: “The threat from
international Communism is a
pretty formidable affair,
primarily because it represents
the fanatical belief of a group
of people who feel that they
have hold of something which
is going to enable them to
dominate the world. That
kind of challenge can only be
met successfully by a counter-
challenge of faith that is held
more intensely and is a
greater and truer faith. There
has got to be a dynamic
spirit.”
Sir Winston Churchill reports
progress on his illness: “The
invaders have been repelled
and mopping-up operations
have begun. I am confident of
victory.”
Lord Tweedsmuir: “We
Scots must get rid of the heresy
that Scotland is a sort of
Northern Switzerland where we
sit making souvenirs and tartan
kennel-coats.”
Fritz Berg (Chairman of the
Federation of German Indus-
tries): “Almost everything will
depend on whether the Western
nations can be made to realise
—to realise in time —that they
may have to forgo temporarily
a further increase in their
standards of living.”
Moscow “Pravda” —“As a
result of a reorganisation taking
place in the literary journals
and organisations of the
Chinese Writers’ Union, about
fifty per cent, of the members
will be released for work at the
grass-roots level. Many Chinese
writers have already declared
their intention of living and
working in factories on the
land.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Summit Talks
Opinions may vary as to the
means of achieving, or even of
the need for, “talks at the
summit,” but there should be
little doubt as to the cause or
source of the demand for such
talks. Even if actually stimu-
lated or prompted and
exploited by the Communist
bloc, the cause lies within us.
Although democracy thrives
on pressure from below, one
inherent weakness or abuse of
the system is the constant pres-
sure on its leaders to provide
panaceas for all evils and
demands for short cuts to world
peace or disarmament. The
counter to excessive emotional
or irrational pressure rests with
its leaders taking the people
into their confidence and telling
them some of the hard facts
of life in the manner of a
Churchill or a Roosevelt.
For example, a peace based
on fear of mutual destruction
is pure speculation, and is in
any case no peace, as there is
no peace of mind nor freedom
from fear. It is better to agree
to disagree than engage in
polemics. No agreement “at
the summit,” or at any level, is
worth the paper it is written
on unless there is mutual trust
or force to bind it. World-
disarmament is an idle pipe-
dream unless people and
nations trust each other, or
human nature changes over-
night. As to changing or
improving human nature or
behavior, the Christian religion
has no monopoly of ethics or
philosophy.—C. C. M. Usher,
R.N. (Ret.).
Who’d Be a Witness?
Being a witness in court is
a mug’s game. Called to give
evidence on a matter in which
the solicitor considered I had
special knowledge, I wasted
most of the morning waiting
in the court. When I eventually
reached the witness-box the
judge ruled that anything I
could say would be irrelevant
and I was permitted to return
to my interrupted affairs.
More recently I gave evidence
when a man was committed for
trial for breaking into my
office-premises. At the end of
these preliminary proceedings
I found myself bound in the
sum of £lOO to henceforth and
at all times hold myself in
readiness to appear at some
sitting of the Supreme Court
hereafter to be fixed ; to
appear when called upon and
give evidence. And unless I
hold myself at all times in
readiness to appear and then
appear from day to day
until the man is tried, and give
my evidence, the £lOO recog-
nisance will be levied on me.
As I naven’t been notified of
the court’s sitting, I’m still
“Care to join me in one for the road ?”
holding myself in readiness, and
hoping that I don't miss or
forget the notice or otherwise
have to stump up the hundred.
The whole business makes me
feel almost as if / were the
accused, not merely one of
several witnesses. Such expenses
as I can claim these were
apparently fixed in the horse -
and-buggy era will be poor
recompense for the incon-
venience and loss of time. —
Doynest (Vic.).
Curse the Press!
“Ayjayay” says (B. 19/2/’5B)
no one is compelled to buy a
paper or to advertise in one.
No one is compelled to buy
marihuana or cocaine, either,
but society frowns on the
peddling of these products and
tries to suppress it.
There may not be a great
distinction between the bloke
who imports dope and invites
teenagers to live on borrowed
energy, and the newspaperman
who deliberately aims sex-
provoking trash, masquerading
as news, at the same target and
for the same purpose to
promote a growing market and
a more clamant urge for his
product.
Australian dailies have a
general low standard—and they
cater for a 13-year-old public.
They admit this, and seek to
justify it on the basis that the
modern 13-year-old has a
pretty wide vocabulary and a
sound general knowledge. But
he also has a 13-year-old out-
look and knowledge of human
nature and 13-year-old urges
which society thinks should be
controlled, not fostered and
aggravated.
Those charged with the job
of combating juvenile delin-
quency will tell you their
efforts are nullified by the press-
publicity given to teenage
morons’ escapades. They’ve
told the newspapers that, too,
but the papers sense the appetite
they’ve fostered for highly-
spiced articles, and they sacri-
fice the nation’s youth on the
altar of increased circulation.
The dailies are prosperous
now and they’re bursting with
an inflated sense of their power.
They don’t always win—l can
think of several recent failures
in campaigns conducted in
extravagant language and
style—but they believe in their
power, and they squeal when
they’re slighted.
The Australian press hasn’t
many scruples. It can’t have,
under the lash of those twin
despots, advertising and circula-
tion ; but other bodies with
few scruples have been curbed,
and while no power in the land
could, or would want to,
restrain an honest publication,
a degenerate press could prove
to be a type of a different
fount.— Squinter (W.A.).
The Great Queensland
Race
There’s an interesting race
going on in Queensland. The
contestants are Townsville,
Ipswich, Rockhampton and
Toowoomba, and the prize is
the honor, dignity, prestige
and economic advantage of
being Queensland’s undis-
puted second city.
In all the other Australian
States there is no doubt—save
perhaps in^S.A. —as to which
town has this honored posi-
tion. But in Queensland it
has long been in doubt and
the leading position has
changed several times among
the four contestants. Twenty-
five years ago, Townsville
(32,000) had a comfortable
lead over Rockhampton
(30,000), while Toowoomba
(25,500) and Ipswich (26,000)
were several lengths behind.
As the years passed the
position changed, until today
Toowoomba (46,000) is a
length in front of the others —
Townsville and Rockhampton
neck-and-neck with 43,000
each, while Ipswich is pressing
hard at 41,000. It is difficult
to pick the future winner, as
all four are growing at much
the same speed. Toowoomba,
the favorite, is the capital of
the flourishing Darling Downs
country ; Ipswich is a pros-
perous coalmining and farm-
ing district which is close
enough to Brisbane to act as a
dormitory, satellite town;
Rockhampton is the natural
capital of the central-coastal
legion ; while Townsville is the
capital of the north. Both the
latter towns are outside the
gravitational influence of the
metropolis.
There are a few outsiders
such as Cairns (23,000), which
is overshadowed by Towns-
ville and the other coastal
towns similarly dominated by
Rockhampton, but the odds
are too long. But there is one
dark horse which bears care-
ful study—the booming South-
port - Surfers’ Paradise -
Coolangatta area, the so-
called Gold Coast. Apart


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept., "
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. .. .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to —
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
from the tourist-developments,
modern history has a habit of
moving to areas where the
workers like to live—witness
Florida and California in the
U.S.A.
Which runner to back?
Well, my money is on Towns-
ville, as it is going to be the
centre of a vast new empire
of mineral, agricultural and
industrial developments, but
I would have a little saving
bet on the South Coast region,
just to be cautious. —A.A.
(Yorkshire, England).
An M.P.’s Duties
Can’t agree with “S.J.” (B.
26/2/’5B) that an M.P.’s
interest in his constituents’
problems is mere “log-
rolling.”
After nine years as
secretary to a Federal M.P. 1
can tell him that probably a
politician’s most useful role is
to secure prompt depart-
mental decisions in matters
which have been dragging on
for months and even years.
In addition to his “advertised
appearances,” my M.P often
calls and introduces himself at
farms, shops and private
homes en route to social
functions and as a result
comes up with a surprising
bag of “problems,” in addi-
tion to those received daily by
mail. He may find a farmer’s
son battling for a rebate of
sales-tax on welding equip-
ment used to manufacture
agricultural implements in a
backyard workshop; a New
Australian railway - worker
whose application to have his
fiancee admitted to Australia
is at a standstill; or a small
manufacturer baffled by the
intricacies of registering a
trademark.
An M.P.’s initial interest in
a case ensures that every
aspect will be carefully con-
sidered and no snap decision
made ; the speed with which a
departmental decision is made
once an M.P. is on the trail
is simply astonishing. In one
case representations by the
constituent and his lawyer
over a period of 15 months
had failed to secure a taxation-
clearance for a deceased
estate, although the bene-
ficiaries were urgently in need
of funds. Intervention by his
M.P. cleared the pigeon-holes
in 10 days.
I can assure “S.J.” that my
M.P. at least has not been
guilty of using a rubber
stamp to request a Minister’s
reply. He always writes a
personal letter amplifying the
“I've got an itchy palm."
case and urging close
investigation. The only con-
vention used is “back-pedal-
ling” in cases without merit,
where the Minister is merely
asked for his comments. —
Carlyle (Vic.).
Steam Locos
Tell George Beesley (B.
26/2/’5B) that I’m less con-
cerned with championing the
steam-loco than I am with try-
ing to persuade people like
himself to take the more exag-
gerated claims of the diesel-
electric with a grain of salt,
so many of them being pure
ballyhoo.
Take the examples he quotes.
In N.S.W. diesels are running
three times the annual mileage
of steam-jobs, which is very
impressive if you don’t know
(1) that the comparison is
between brand-new £lOO,OOO
diesels carefully diagrammed to
cover the greatest possible
distance and an odd thousand
assorted coal-burners of various
types, sizes and ages, doing
ordinary run-of-mill work
where intensive usage is im-
possible, and (2) that if the
machine doing three times the
mileage costs three or more
times as much to buy, you’re
not gaining much.
Similarly with the Trans,
where diesel-traction, not a
considerable increase in traffic,
is stated to be giving a profit.
It would be most interesting
to see a breakdown of the
balance-sheet figures, but in any
case the comparison follows the
usual pattern, the new being
compared with the old —brand-
new equipment being compared
with a mass of decrepit junk.
As for Ebasco, I don’t blame
them so much as I do the
people who paid them £lOO,OOO
f ° r <, w'h re P° rt ' . Th ? f Sta , te
r° n n f f l bu
. , X unlimited coal, vast
hydro-electrical potential and
nuclear power just around the
corner. Obviously future rail-
way motive - power should
depend as far as possible on
electricity. rather than on the
cumbersome diesel with its
imported fuel. Yet instead of
getting advice from the French,
the Swiss, the Swedes, even the
Russians, we went to America,
of all countries the most back-
ward in railway electrification.
The ridiculous Hornsby-
Gosford extension is an almost
inevitable example of what that
means. Transporticus
(Singapore).
I share George Beesley’s
nostalgia on the departure of
steam from Australian railways
(B. 26/2/’5B), but I can’t pass
over his criticism of “Trans-
porticus” (B. 22/1/’5B).
As I read him, I don’t think
“Transporticus” set out to
prove that steam-haulage should
transcend diesel or electric. All
he was endeavoring to establish
—and he did—was that steam-
traction was capable of estab-
lishing “test-speeds” for the
demonstration of which no
other type of haulage was avail-
able.
Further, he pointed out —and
proved—that the condemnation
by Ebasco of 43-year-old steam-
locomotives used by the
N. S. Wales railways was not
justified. He showed that a
sweeping condemnation of
such locomotives had no
foundation in fact and used the
performance of the French
“steamers” to justify his point.
In that he is open to no
criticism whatsoever.
But it may well be that
Ebasco is.
The whole thing, according to
Mr. Beesley, is a matter of cost
of operation. Well, what is the
cost of operation? Surely Mr.
Beesley is aware that the now
heavily reduced price of coal is
causing the Victorian Railways
Commissioners to wonder
whether they were right in


electrifying the line from Mel-
bourne to Traralgon, some 120
miles from the metropolis.
Be that as it may.
Mr. Beesley has raised the
question of performance by
steam-locomotives. I agree with
the “Lady of the Lake” at 90
m.p.h.—with four cars. Has
he forgotten the L.N.E.R.
4-6-2 “Mallard” which, hauling
seven coaches weighing 240 tons
gross, achieved a speed of 126
m.p.h. on July 3, 1938? Steam-
hauled!
I am not in a position to dis-
pute the assertion that Mr.
Hanneberry, Commonwealth
Commissioner of Railways, says
that diesel-traction changed a
1951 deficit to a 1956-57 credit.
But I do know that in October,
1939, when I made the trip, his
train of similar weight to the
present one enabled a Mel-
bourne-to-Perth traveller to
complete his journey in two-
and-a-half days— which is pre-
cisely the same time as it is
today with diesel-haulage!
Then there is the question
of external diesel-oil supplies
against the locally available
fuel, but you could write a book
on that. —K. J. C. (Vic.).
Better Bread
At the annual binge in
Auckland of the N.Z. Federa-
tion of Master Bakers and
Pastrycooks the president
moaned that people were buy-
ing expensive packaged cereals
instead of bread ; he advocated
that American hard wheat
should be imported to permit
of better-grade flour being pro-
duced.
Before socialism that wheat
did come in and the bread was
good. The general complaint
is that bread now made goes
mouldy quickly. This is as
much due to the activities of
Government snoopers as to the
bakers who, not wishing to risk
a £5O fine for sbortweight
bread, don’t bake the loaves
properly.
Packaged imported crisp-
breads, made with rye-flour,
have a ready sale; under
socialism this is to be stopped.
Some of the Dutch immigrants
have built-up quite a business
by marketing fancy breads of
the Continental type.
The official reply to the
Master Bakers’ proposal is that
there will be no American
wheat; another 2s. a bushel of
subsidy is to be paid “to help
wheat-growers” and cut Aus-
tralian sales to N.Z. —T. W.
(N.Z.).
Redundant Coinage
In these inflationary days,
when the value of the pound
is almost halved, what earthly
use is the humble halfpenny?
The purchasing-power of this
coin is nil. In fact, one of the
few places where it is used is
the post-office for mail-
charges.
It is time that this useless
piece of coinage, which,
incidentally, is the bugbear of
bus- and tram-conductors and
paper-boys, was deleted from
the Australian monetary
system and relegated to anti-
quity along with the farthing.
—Bicky (Vic.).
Child-slavery
The latest fuss over so-called
“child-slavery” occurred when
milk-carters in some Sydney
suburbs were detected employ-
ing boys of 15 years on their
carts. The union forbade the
delivery of milk to a large
number of householders until
the practice ceased.
Some of us oldsters will recall
the outcry about “child-slavery”
on the North Coast of N.S.W.
more than half-a-century ago
when farmers were accused of
compelling their children of
tender years to milk umpteen
cows before walking umpteen
miles to school, and then milk-
ing the same number of cows
again in the evening before
having their supper, after which
they husked corn for a couple
of hours before going to bed.
I happened to be living on
the North Coast at the time and,
as a lad of 10 or 12, did my
share of teat-squeezing before
walking three miles to school. I
had to do the same again in
the afternoon ; and quite often
enjoyed the relaxation of husk-
ing corn at night while my
elders, including men and
women from the neighboring
farms, sang songs and told
stories of their early days. It
was a real punishment not to
be allowed to go to the bam
at night for at least a couple of
hours. We usually had supper
after the husking had finished
and then enjoyed at least eight
hours of sound sleep before
getting up to go through the
same routine again. “Child-
slavery,” they called it!
In my opinion it is better for
children to do physical work
in the open air, even at 12 years
of age, than to crowd into
picture-shows on Saturday
afternoons or at night, watching
films of doubtful moral value.
The working youngsters are
much better off, too, than those
who are allowed to run around
the streets and alleys at night
learning All too young some of
the Jess desirable “facts of
file.” Provided a boy is healthy
and well fed there is no reason
at all why he should not get up
at 4 a.m. and put in a few hours
on a milk-cart.
For one thing it will teach
him the habit of early rising
which few city youngsters know
anything about to-day. They
stay in bed till the last minute,
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 478
Across
I—Shares1 —Shares the alternative noise with the Ram. (10)
5 —A Spanish hero is sour. (4)
9 —German river letters for Emily, Emma, Emmanuel and
Empedocles. (3)
10 —Dance fan knocked Bella to the long hair on a lion’s
neck. (11)
13 — Of no effect to a doubled aboriginal weapon. (5-5)
14— Secret ruse for this employer. (4)
16 —Steak we minced in a Mel-
bourne suburb. (4, 3)
18 —Some Communist pastrycook ery
built up on- deeply sunken
columns. (6)
21 — 'What makes Ali run a conveni-
ence? (6)
22 — Edible vowels on furniture use-
ful for dining. (7)
24 —Ashes in such ill-managed runs.
(4)
26 —A 201 of the teeth happening
by chance. (10)
29 —“Locust” whitened tradesman.
(6, 5)
31 — Elk hiding in a major Nether-
lands river. (3)
32 — The thousand people or things
who are not us or you. (4)
33 — Roy Rene acted badly to an
“Infidel.” (10)
Down
1 — Flowering shrub is nothing to
the long-distance swimmer who
loved Hero. (8)
2 -One who reveals who can’t keep
a record. (9)
3 Zebras (with their initial tipped
on its side) sank disorderly
Americans. (10)
4 Crook one with book-end
illustrations. (3)
6 Cracks these blokes. (5)
7 Very dull and boring and dry
about the listener. (6)
8 — Corporation apex is rising
kitchenware. (3)
11 — Behold the horseshoe name for
a boy. (3)
12 — An oval-like figure otherwise
seen about impudence, (?)
15 —A musician strikes this ak'chohe
liquor put into a kitchen boiler.
(€-4)
17 —A junior boy-scout. (4, 3)
19— Rewrought metal debt fitted
with an embrasured parapet
arranged for tight. <9)
20 — Warmer for an Eskimo shuts up
the relations. (8)
23—Knock about the snack-bar. (6)
25—A doting mother turned in the
Order of the British Empire. (5)
27 — An upright and two sloping
lines thus defined the matter
you’re looking at right now. (3)
28 — 11-down deserts the first part of
29-across to cook an English
playwright. (3)
30—Has chopped timber. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 477


THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WAL.ES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 4387 (2 lines).
L. F. THORPE. MANAGER.
“you rude little boy—go and put your trousers on!"
snatch a hasty breakfast and
rush off to catch a train, tram
or bus to school. The average
father would be shocked at the
idea of his child walking even
a mile to school. Special trans-
port must be provided and it
must be cheap, too. It matters
not that the child might run
several miles a day during play
in the schoolgrpund. Let’s go
back to the days of so-called
child-slavery, because I believe
it will reawaken in all of us
a respect for the dignity and
value of hard work. Peter
Simple (N.S.W.).
The Official Mind
In the early days of flying-
training at Point Cook, a young
cadet crashed near Seymour,
60-odd miles from base, and
the local undertaker provided
a sheil to convey the remains
to the Melbourne morgue. The
bereaved parents desired burial
in Sydney, and the usual lead-
lined casket was provided. In
due course the two undertakers
rendered their accounts to the
Finance Officer, who had never
heard of two coffins for the one
occupant.
“Please explains” flew
around, and, when light
dawned, the Director of Equip-
ment was nonplussed on receipt
of a minute inquiring whether
the empty coffin lying at the
morgue could not be taken into
stock against a future emerg-
ency. He dropped the baby
into the lap of the medical
branch as the one most likely
to have any use for such an
The Bulletin, March 19, 1958
item. They replied that they
had neither room nor use for
the receptacle.
With due formalities the
Treasury bloke gave permission
for the public destruction of
the 30-bob’s-worth of deal, and
in the R.Af.A.F. Transport
Depot at Vic. Barracks repre-
sentatives of Treasury, Audit,
Equipment and Medical wit-
nessed the waste of a couple of
gallons of petrol to ensure
observation of Treasury regula-
tions. Out of deference to the
Diggers at Repat. across the
street, the bugler, surrepti-
tiously in attendance, cancelled
his engagement at the last
minute.— -Jan Celer (N.S.W.).
The French Revolution
Can’t agree with “Keima’s”
claim (B. 12/2/’5B) that “one
of the main causes of the
French Revolution was that the
peasants were bound to the soil
and heavily taxed.”
Serfdom only lingered in a
mild form in 18th-century
France, mainly in parts of
Lorraine, the Jura, and Bour-
bonnais. In most of the pro-
vinces it had died out before
the end of the Middle Ages. It
was already in decay before the
beginning of the “Hundred
Years’ War” between England
and France.
Describing the state of
France on the eve of that war,
Professor Perrot (in The
Hundred Years War ) pointed
out that in many areas feudal
tenures were being replaced by
long leases on a money basis.
From the 15th to the 18th
centuries the characteristic form
of peasant tenure in France was
what, in England, is called copy-
holding. The occupier had
hereditary tenure, subject to
certain fixed charges, not
necessarily monetary. These,
taken as a whole, were not
unduly burdensome the
monetary ones became less so
through the years, because of
inflation—but some were irri-
tating. They irked, particu-
larly in the 18th century, when
the peasants were gaining in
prosperity and independence.
In the course of the 18th
century many peasants bought
out the manorial charges on
their land and became free-
holders. Gaxotte states, in
The French Revolution, that in
1789 peasant proprietors owned
at least half of the soil of
France. In some cases, when
landlords sold their manorial
dues, they reserved the sporting
rights over the land. This was
a cause of bad blood between
the classes.
The incidence and character
of taxation differed in various
provinces. According to the
French historian Boulanger—
writing of the 17th-century
peasant, who was not so well off
as his 18th-century descendant
■—taxation was not relatively
higher than in 1920. As today,
the French peasant was a past-
master in the art of tax-evasion.
The French peasant gained
substantially in prosperity in
the 18th century. Of this there
is ample evidence, both in the
researches of modern historians,
and in contemporary diaries,
wills and inventories. The lesser
nobility declined in the period,
many becoming poverty-
stricken. The peasants tended
to despise them. Belloc, in his
Shorter History of England.
gives the average annual income
of a lord of one manor in
France and England, in the mid-
18th-century, as £2OO and £BOO
respectively.
It was not the peasantry and
workers who were responsible
for the Revolution, but the
bourgeoisie. This class,* far
from being depressed or ex-
ploited, was privileged. It
gained greatly in numbers,
wealth and importance in the
18th century. The official class
was largely recruited from it;
it dominated the professions
and produced most of the
country’s savants, writers and
artists. It was hostile to the
social privileges of the aristo-
cracy, and was attracted as
were many aristocrats by
egalitarian ideas advocated by
certain influential philosophers.
The noblesse de robe, the
highly-privileged legal class
between the territorial nobility
and the bourgeoisie, contributed
prominently to the Revolution.
Herbert Luthy says of it, in
The State of France: “It was
this group, together with a few
renegade owners of church-
offices, given away by the
State, which provided prac-
tically the whole of the political
personnel of the Revolution”
—which he dubs the “taking-
over of the State by the officials
of the State.”
The urban worker gained
nothing from the Revolution.
He lost his guilds and
the saints’-day holidays which
had assured him considerable
leisure, and he was forbidden,
by a law of 1794 (named Loi
Chapellier after its sponsor),
to enter into combinations to
raise wages.— Terry the Tory
(N.S.W.).


ROYAL JELLY
Direct from the bees. Fabulously
rich vitalising dietary supplement.
One month’s supply, in capsules,
£5/5/-, or mixed in © ounces Of
beney, £5. Technical data 2/0*
Free Leaflet.
R. A. PEACOCK.
Aplarht, 21 Carbine Street,
RERAN©. VICTORIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
SHEEP FERTILITY
AN article by Westralian con-
tributor “Bolivar” which
appeared on these pages some
time back—to be precise, on
August 7, 1957 under the
heading “Lambing Percentages”
touched off quite a discussion
on the subject of fertility in
Australian flocks and, particu-
larly, in fat-lamb-producing
flocks; some contributors
pointing out that conditions in
Australia were very different to
those in England, others stating
that other factors, such as
keeping lambs alive after they
were born, were more im
portant, and others again sup-
porting “Bolivar’s” main con-
tention. In view of all this, it is
interesting to note what visit-
ing livestock authority Dr. John
Hammond (who is in Aus-
tralia on a tour sponsored by
the Meat Board) had to say
to an audience of farmers and
graziers in Perth this month:
“Infertility in sheep is one
of the weakest points in fat-
lamb production in Australia,”
he said, and went on to say that
he considered increased fertility
Early weaning of
lambs is good
economic practice.
Experience has shown
that lambs weaned as
early as six weeks of
age compare favor-
ably in growth with
others mother-fed
even up to three and
four months old.
Pasture hay should
be put out to the
ewes and lambs just
prior to weaning to
enable the ewes to
train the lambs to
eat it. Another good'
economic practice is
to use Elastrator
Rubber Rings when
marking and tailing
the lambs. This will
reduce losses and
limit fly strike and
disease.
in breeding-ewes would be the
simplest and most effective
method of cutting costs in fat-
lamb production.
He pointed out that in
Britain a farmer couldn’t make
a profit out of fat-lamb pro-
duction unless he got a lambing
of 150 per cent, weaned, but
"Here’s the latest call from the Stock Exchange."
that in both Australia and New
Zealand percentages were much
lower.
One prize-winning flock in
England last year had a lamb-
ing-percentage of over 204 per
cent, lambs weaned.
“The cost of producing a
fat-lamb is the cost of keeping
the ewe for a year, less the
return from the wool, plus
about 16 weeks' feeding for
the lamb,” Hammond said.
“This means the major cost
is that of keeping the ewe. If
she has twins, the farmer gets
two lambs for little more than
the cost of one.
“So the higher the lambing-
percentage, the greater the
profit.”
Asked how flockowners
could increase fertility in their
breeding-ewes, Dr. Hammond
said that the improvements lay
basically in the hands of stud-
breeders.
Commercial flockowners
could achieve a certain amount
of improvement by selecting
and culling their breeding-ewes,
but this improvement could
more than be wiped-out if the
rams used had not been bred
for fertility.
As in milk-production, the
sire was the dominant factor,
and, after three generations,
provided more than 80 per
cent, of the genetic makeup of
the breeding-flock.
Dr. Hammond urged breeders
to breed for fertility in the
breeding-ewes. He said that
perhaps too little attention had
been paid to this point in breed-
ing-objectives.
“I don’t say that too much
emphasis has been placed on
other points like wool-produc-
tion and conformation,” he
said, “but perhaps too little
attention has been paid to
breeding for fertility.
“I realise that wool-produc-
tion is more important here
than at home, but I’m not so
sure you need such good shape
for fat-lamb mothers.
“We value fertility and milk-
production higher.
“If you saw some of our
ewes —I won’t say they’re like
goats —but they don’t have
good shape.
“But they rear good lambs.
The good meat-build comes
from the sire and the good
mothering.
“If your stud-breeders paid
more attention to fertility, there
would be more profit in the
fat-lamb industry,” he claimed.
Environment also had to be
considered in relation to
fertility, Dr. Hammond said.
He considered, for instance,
that many of the ewes he had
seen were too fat to be good
breeders.
“We wean at 10 weeks old,
and then put the ewe on to a
starvation diet to keep the fat
off her until about three weeks
before tupping,” he said.
“She is then on a rising plane
of nutrition, and sheds far more
eggs, which increase the chances
of twins and triplets.”
Dr. Hammond said that
hormone-treatment of breed-
ing-ewes to increase their
fertility was having a certain
amount of success. It was quite
definite that proper treatment
with pregnant-mare serum
could increase fertility, or help
breeding out of season to catch
early markets with lambs.
However, this was really a
secondary method. The basic
method of increasing fertility,
taking into account feeding
and environment, was in the
breeding.
A ewe that did not have high
inherited fertility could not
produce good # percentages
however well it was treated,
although even a fertile ewe
could not produce well under
poor conditions of feeding and
management.
Dr. Hammond also said that
livestock - owners in Britain
were making strong protests
against foot-and-mouth-disease
infection entering Britain in
shipments of beef from the
Argentine.
Some infection was brought
across the Channel from
Europe by migrating starlings,
but recent investigations
showed that about two-thirds of
the outbreaks in Britain had
their source in meat coming
from the Argentine.
Sc ; entists had now been able
to type different strains of the
virus and so determine their
origin.
The National Farmers' Union
and the Royal Agricultural
Society in Britain had pro-
tested to the Government a
short time ago, and sought an
embargo on Argentine beef,
pointing out the enormous
potential danger to the breeding
herds and flocks of Britain.
The infection was carried in
the bone-marrow, which some-
times found its way out to the


Farmers in all States are
planting
RUSSIAN COMFREY
Giant Symphytum Peregrinum
The 100-tons-an-acre perennial fodder
with a high food value and exclusive
medicinal properties for all livestock and
poultry (food and medicine for man
also !). Experience demonstrates a saving
of 2-2% cwt. food on each pig up to
six months. Low fibre content and the
highest protein of the world’s fodders
(protein higher than Soya bean has been
obtained in England). Can be mechani-
cally harvested. Has no disagreeable
features. Drought, frost or flood will
not kill it. Outlasts other fodders by
producing for more than 20 years with-
out deteriorating. Can be killed if de-
sired but does not get out of control.
No known insect pests. Rabbits will not
touch it. Propagation incredibly easy.
Large Root offsets 30/- dozen, £5/10/-
50, £lO per 100. Crown offsets
(quicker to start) £3 per dozen, £ll
for 50, £2O per 100. Post free. Air-
mail post 2/6 in each £1 extra. Larger
lots at greatly reduced prices. Whole-
sale rates for merchants.
Send stamped, addressed envelope for
booklet to the farm that discovered
comfrey’s amazing growth in Australia
by witnessed weighing tests in 1955.
The first to advertise Russian Comfrey,
the first to bring it to the attention of
Australian farmers. An interest is
taken in your growing problems by
W. F. SAVAGE,
Green Farm, Red Hill South,
VICTORIA.
paddocks in swill-feeding, to
begin outbreaks.
Super, on Top
“Overlap”: Commonsense
should rule in the current
argument about whether it is
wise to topdress the thinly
covered hilltops in mountainous
country. Opponents of this
practice, which has increased
greatly with aerial topdressing,
are worried that the pastures
will become dominant with
sub.-clover. This plant dies off
during the summer, and leaves
the land in danger of becoming
bare and open to erosion during
heavy autumn rains—a critical
time for water-erosion every-
where.
As sub.-clover eventually
gives the soil an improved
structure which resists washing
much better than natural soil,
and provides a roothold which
also stabilises the land, the
opponents of topdressing are
doubtless worried most about
the early years, before sub. has
had a chance to do this job.
The answer surely lies in
wise management. Anyone who
lets his stock eat the hilltops
bare of sub.-clover, or, indeed,
of natural grasses, is asking for
trouble; but it should be
possible to protect these
portions during the summer and
allow the sub. to provide a
soil-cover which is far better
than what Nature gave. After
all, sub.-clover is an autumn-
to-spring feed.
Wise conservation of fodder
on the flatter country would
allow the hilltops to be left
alone during summer, and still
topdressed in the autumn with-
out increasing the erosion
hazard.
It is a different matter on
sandhills. It has been estab-
lished that 1201 b. per acre of
1:1 super, and ammonia to the
acre with the crop will give
almost a 100 per cent, chance
of a heavy-enough crop-cover
to prevent wind-erosion.
This manure is being used by
an increasing number of
farmers in sandy country, and
there is little reason why it
should not become universal
where there is danger of wind-
erosion.
Noogoora-burr
“Myall”: Young plants of
the Noogoora-burr have caused
the death of many cattle and
pigs on the Darling Downs
(Q.) and in the Burnett Valley
during the past few weeks..
When rain fell after the
recent drought, seeds of the
weed germinated in thousands,
and animals “chasing the green
pick” devoured the young
plants greedily.
Seven to 10 days is suffi-
cient time for the seeds to
vegetate, and seedlings, when in
the two-leaf stage, are extremely
poisonous. As the plants grow
the toxic properties quickly
disappear, and when they have
reached the six-leaf stage they
are quite harmless.
The prickly casing contains
two seeds, which germinate at
different periods, so that, if one
should sprout and encounter
dry weather and perish, the
second will lie dormant in the
soil until conditions are
favorable for its growth.
Noogoora - burr poisoning
can’t be successfully treated, so
owners of stock should try to
keep their animals away from
localities where young plants
are likely to appear.
Artificial Breeding
“Nedrium” : Since September
last about 1100 head of
Atherton Tableland (N.Q.)
dairy-stock have been insemi-
nated in the State Department
of Agriculture and Stock’s new,
large-scale, artificial-breeding
scheme. For about a year
before, A.I. was practised on a
smaller scale —using selected
semen flown 1000 miles from
Rocklea, near Brisbane.
Last September three Jersey
bulls —Glenrandle Spotted Lad,
Gem Ideal Mystery and Key-
stone Page from noted
southern studs were railed north
to the Tableland’s A.I. labora-
tory on the Kairi regional
experiment - station. Three
Illawarra bulls were added
from Tableland studs. Thus
there was no longer need to
fly semen north, and an
enlarged breeding-scheme could
get under way.
Field-worker Roy Nieper,
who does the rounds of the
farms, is out six days a week.
He arranges second visits where
cows have not conceived within
a certain period.
Semen is collected three
days a week by the officer-in-
charge of the breeding-centre,
Gordon Lock.
It was on August 18 last that
the first calf bred by A.I. was
born on the Tablelands. There
were claims made that it was
the first A.I. birth in the
tropics. Gordon Taylor’s calf
from Tolga was a perfectly
normal heifer. Seven out of
the first 10 cows 'inseminated
late in 1956 were Taylor’s.
Analysis of the latest figures
shows, that results to date com-
pare very favorably with those
obtained in other countries.
Last season, using Rocklea
semen, the percentage of con-
ceptions was 52 to 56 per cent,
of first inseminations. This
season it is up to nearly 70
per cent. This is the same as
the U.S. figure, only the U.S.
has been experimenting for 10
years.
Roy Nieper believes that it is
not really artificial insemina-
tion ; it is, rather, artificial
transference.
At present only the Kairi-
Tolga and Upper Barron areas
of the Tableland are covered.
Millaa Millaa and Ravenshoe
dairymen are casting envious
eyes at the scheme. However,
the main bar to expansion is
the fact that there is only one
trained field-operator (Roy
Nieper), so Millaa Millaa and
Ravenshoe dairymen’s organisa-
tions are hoping to have some-
one in the areas trained in the
technique.
Cutting Stock-losses
“Agricola”: There used to
be an old saying that was
accepted philosophically by
most stockmen, “Stock-owneis
must be siock-losers.”
This was true at one stage of
the game, but it doesn’t always
apply now. Few stock-owners
stop to think of the strides that
have been made in veterinary
science over the last decade or
two. More important, the new
knowledge can be applied by
any intelligent stockman.
Take tick-fever. When this
hit Queensland in the latter part
of the last century, scientists
were flat out studying the life-
history of the tick. A cure was
more in the nature of a fluke
than an achievement. On one
northern station alone, the
cattle population fell from
33,500 to 7400 in a matter of
two years. Such a loss would
be inconceivable nowadays.
It wasn’t until the ’thirties
that Acaprin came on the
market and the stock-owner had
an almost sure cure in his hand,
provided he didn’t wait until
the animal was on its last legs.
Consider the saving over a year
if 3000 cattle were saved over
the whole State.
Then consider pleuro. It was
a major killer, and moving
stock through certain areas was
about as safe as flying to the
moon. Now, vaccination and
scientific control has made the
disease a second-rate menace.
One of the greatest achieve-
ments in recent years has been
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(6/3/’58)
Reasonably good rains are indicated on the coast of
Queensland during April, with heavy falls on the south coast.
These rains may be associated with cyclonic activity, but
the balance of the State will probably get only patchy rains.
The coastal areas of N.S.W. should receive heavy rain
in April; cyclonic disturbances and rough weather also
likely. Moderate, patchy rains probable in May, and there
may be general rains throughout the State during June.
With the exception of some moderate rain in portion
of the western division, rainfall will probably be poor in
Victoria during April, although good general rains should
commence in May.
Moderate rain is likely in the lower north of South
Australia during April, but the balance of the State may get
only poor rainfall, with good general rains commencing in
the agricultural areas during May.
Good general rains are indicated in a large part of W.A.
during April, although light rain only is expected on the
south coast. Heavy falls should occur in the east Gascoyne.
LENNOX WALKER.


the control of tuberculosis in
cattle. This was communicable
to human beings, but little
notice was taken of it because
very few cattle died from the
disease. The only time
dairymen found they had it in
their herds was when they sold
cattle to the butcher or
abattoirs. Then a post-mortem
inspection spotlighted the
trouble.
A simple and speedy, as well
as cheap, method of testing
cattle wholesale has virtually
wiped-out the disease in cattle,
and a corresponding decrease
in tuberculosis in pigs has also
been noticed. What has been
one of the most feared diseases
of the human race has been
brought under eontrol in
cattle. Few have realised the
extent of the victory—it has
been done so quietly.
In the sheep world, the use
of the latest drugs to control
worms has meant thousands in
the graziers’ pockets every year.
Another spectacular victory
has been won over the blowfly.
No fanfare of trumpets, but the
work of men like Dr. Moule
and others has made the game
safe and the chance of making
a profit greater.
Perhaps the most spectacular
of the discoveries of the last
decade or so have been the
hydrocarbons and D.D.T., used
to control external parasites
such as ticks, flies, lice and
other pests. No one coukl
compute with any accuracy the
saving in time, labor and
expense when you compare
D.D.T. with the old arsenic
dips that had to be used every
three weeks or oftener. The
modern preparations are not
only more lethal to external
parasites, but they are more
lasting in their killing-power.
It’s when you come to
diseases like pneumonia,
mastitis, strangles and suchlike
bacteria! infections that you
see what great strides have been
made by the veterinary pro-
fession. Take mastitis. It
was one of the worst diseases
the dairyman had to face up
to. There was hardly a herd
that did not have it in either
the acute or the chronic form,
and apart from such feeble
remedies as bathing the udder
or injecting powerful irritants
into the quarter, you might
as well have sat down by the
cow and drunk water.
Pounds and pounds were
wasted on vaccines that had
very little effect on the disease
and conferred little immunity
on cows that were free from
the infection. Now the farmer
has the choice of several anti-
biotics that can bring the
trouble under control quick
smart, provided he employs
recommended methods of
cleanliness. This has not only
saved the industry thousands of
pounds in milk, but has reduced
the eulling-rate in most herds
as half-a-dozen cows were
tossed out each year because
they had been ruined by
mastitis.
Whilst the farmer has been
offered modern drugs that have
enabled him to wipe out most
diseases when they come into
the herd, what is more im-
portant is the methods of
prevention that have been
drawn up for him. Realising
that prevention is better than
cure, the white-coated boys
have drawn up systems that
save the farmer pounds each
year. Take one simple one. The
system of drenching for the
control of internal parasites in
sheep. Strategic drenching has
enabled these parasites to be
controlled cheaply and effec-
tively, especially when com-
bined with rotational grazing
of the paddocks.
The programme of jetting
for fly-control is another such
system that has saved the sheep-
men untold labor and money.
One could go on indefinitely
quoting cases, but the most
important thing to bear in rnintd
is that these discoveries were
made by Australians in most
cases. Men like Legg, Moule,
Roberts, Murnane, Bull and
others who worked, in most
cases, with limited equipment
and finance. They have saved
the country millions, and their
wages have been but a small
fraction of this.
This is one reason why the
work of C.5.1.R.0. and the
State Departments of Agricul-
ture should never be neglected.
It’s nice to have satellites cost-
ing millions hurtling a Found the
sky, but it doesn’t get us very
far if the foundation of the
country’s prosperity is
neglected. Australia leads the
rest of the world in rural
research that really means
something to the man on the
land. The white-coated boys
who do the work should never
be cut short of vital equipment
to satisfy the ego of other
branches of scientific research.
Without a prosperous rural
economy, we perish.
Wheat Protein
“Sandy”: South Australia’s
policy of separating semi-hard
from soft wheats during the
last harvest has paid-off well.
The average protein-content of
samples from seven country
centres indicated that the State’s
semi-hard wheat would average
more than 12 per cent, protein
and soft varieties about 11 per
cent.
This shows buyers clearly
where they can get their best
flour for breadmaking, and
what is more suitable for
biscuits and other utility
purposes.
Although wheat-grading at
receiving-terminals still has its
problems, South Australia has
shown that it is at least prac-
ticable to separate the semi-
hard wheats from the soft
varieties.
Ambassadress
“Lester”: First girl to
represent Victorian Senior
Young Farmers in the Inter-
national Youth Exchange Plan
is 21-year-old Joan Corbett of
Berriwillock, who beat 11 boys
and three of her own sex who
faced the selection - panel
recently.
Daughter of a leading Malice
farmer, Joan could not be
faulted on questions which
probed her knowledge about
crops and flocks, as well as the
home. Last year, she defeated
boys as well as girls in a
Wimmera Council radio com-
petition on the need for higher
protein-wheats in her State.
Olympic
“O.”: Although the new
wheat - variety, Olympic,
released last season for
general sowing, gave some
good results in the lately
completed Wimmera (Vic.)
harvest, many farmers are
still critical of it. Even
under the past season’s dry
conditions, Olympic crops grew
three or four inches taller than
Pinnacle, a variety which, over
some years, has proved itself
admirably suited to the district.
At a District Council meeting
of the Mid-Wimmera Wheat
and Wool Growers’ Association
at Minyip (Vic.) recently,
several growers claimed that ill
a good season Olympic, like
the crops of the "bad old days,”
would run too much to straw.
Some, dissatisfied with
Olympic after two seasons’ trial,
were concerned because they
could not get certified seed of


to every property owner
its
ill?
; Hii
!i Hi r
m
i rip \
f 1 1 'f; Hi
m Hi
lit lU Sri
I i i
k I4U
m\ Hi
]n
UH
m u
lill U b ■ i
• pi P S
* h Pii R
iil- f
f.u
mil
/«// mi i aim
i> ’> ii h* hi HiljhUl
1 hi •••■liiim
tih
mum
Wimim
tin mi
‘hiiiih
it! Il ii
llitti
m !
Si iliiH
H* 1
bh i fill J*& b
CHI ML PLOUGH
Technical Bulletin No. 7
Chisel Ploughing.
Technical Bulletin No. 8
Pasture Improvement.
Technical Bulletin No. 10
Chisel Plough, Seed-Box
Combination.
These information bulletins explain in simple language the advantages of Chiseh Ploughing,
the various methods of sowing and fertilizing, and the cheapest, most efficient way to combine
these operations. They have been expressly prepared as a service to Australian pastoralists
by Howard Auto-Cultivators.
For free copies of these Technical Bulletins send coupon to your State distributor as listed
N.S.W. Britstand Distributors Ltd., 637 Gardeners, Rd., Mascot.
Q'LD. A.S.A. Farm Machinery Pty. Ltd., 74-76 Eagle St., Brisbane.
VIC. E. Hassett & Sons Pty. Ltd., 626 Bourke St., Melbourne.
W.A. Agricultural Parts Supply Co. Ltd., 234 Pier Street, Perth.
TAS. Max Geeves Pty. Ltd., 123 Murray Street, Hobart.
177 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
N.T. Nlghtcliffe Motors, Nightcliffe, Darwin.
N.Z. Dominion Motors Ltd., Courtenay Place, Wellington.
S.A. Power Equipment Ltd., 67 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
0«A«
OWARD
Ai/TomT/vAmsmim
WINDSOR ROAD, NORTHMEAD, N.S.W.
POST THIS COUPON TODAY
Pleas* send me Technical Bulletins Nos. 7, 8,
10, post free.
Name
Address
the variety they preferred—the
popular Pinnacle—as an alter-
native. The Victorian Depart-
ment of Agriculture, through
Long erenong Agricultural
College, lias been releasing only
four varieties for next sowing :
Olympic, Insignia, Insignia 49,
and Beacon.
The meeting’s unanimous
resolution requesting the depart-
ment to make Pinnacle again
available from Longerenong
brought from the senior agro-
nomist the prompt explana-
tion that since, as farmers had
undoubtedly noticed last field-
day, “strangers” had appeared
in the college Pinnacle crop,
that seed could not be certified
as pure in strain and quality.
In 12 months’ time, however,
certified Pinnacle seed would
again be available. Mean-
while, farmers wishing to sow.
Pinnacle this coming season
could surely get satisfactory
seed from the “hundreds of
thousands of bushels” of
Pinnacle produced this harvest
in the Wimmera.
As for Olympic, some 50
different strains of it were still
being tested for quality, so a
much better type might soon
emerge.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
The Moomba festivities have been a
huge success and the public turned out
in full force for the exciting and color-
ful procession of floats through the city.
Sailors from visiting U.S. warships
joined in the fun and also helped on the
stalls arranged by the Uncle Bob’s Clubs
on the banks of the Yarra.
There were some novel touches in
the staging of Coleridge Taylor’s
“Hiawatha.” Six stalwart braves dived
into the pool and did several laps in fine
style; when Minnehaha died her bier
was carried by canoe down the pool;
after the monks had arrived with their
message of Christianity for the Indians,
Hiawatha departed for the Islands of the
Blest, also by canoe. The high diving-
board was covered by scenery to repre-
sent a mountain, and Hiawatha appeared
to the waiting Indians before disappearing
into the flame which burned on top of
the mountain. At each of the three
performances 6000 people attended.
v v v
The engagement of Susan Dodds, only
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Dodds
of Toorak, to Jim, only son of Mr. and
Mrs. A. G. Perry, of Shepparton, was
celebrated with a family dinner-party.
The ring is an emerald surrounded by
diamonds. Sue is a member of the Wool
Ball committee.
☆ ☆ *
Mrs. Noel Dixon was responsible for
the original and attractive decorations at
the Palais, St. Kilda, where the Moomba
Ball attracted 600. Black and white,
with touches of pink, were the colors.
Proceeds from the ball will go to the
Royal Women’s Hospital Cancer
Equipment Fund. Sale of “lucky
envelopes” alone netted £6OO.
Ball-president Mrs. Leo Curtis, with
her husband (Cr. Curtis), received Sir
Dallas and Lady Brooks, the latter wear-
ing a pale-blue tulle gown the skirt of
which carried lace-motifs embroidered
with sequins and diamente ; Mrs. Curtis
chose a graceful gown of white chiffon.
In the official party were the Premier
and Mrs. Bolte, the Lord Mayor and
Lady Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs. F. W.
Thomas), Moomba celebrations-com-
mittee president Cr. W. Comeadow and
Mrs. Comeadow, Mrs. Harold Holt, Dr.
and Mrs. James Buchanan, and the
president of the Royal Women’s
Hospital (Miss K. A. Syme).
v $ &
As president of the Victorian Red
Cross, Lady Brooks attended the preview
of autumn hats at Menzies’ by Ronald
Bernaldo, in aid of the March Appeal
for that organisation. Wearing a fitted
suit of mist-blue silk and a small match-
ing toque, her Excellency was met by
Dame Mary Daly (chairman of the func-
tions-committee) and Mrs. Alan Spowers.
Ticket secretaries who worked hard to
make the function a success were Mrs.
T. G. Pizzey, Mrs. Norman Spry, Mrs.
Eric Cottrell and Mrs. J. Gorr. Among
those in the smart audience were Mrs.
Arthur Adams (accompanied by her
daughter Julianne and Adrienne
Williams), Lady Selleck and her daughter-
in-law Mrs. Bruce Selleck, Mrs. Stanley
Korman, Mrs. Lou Ellinson, Mrs. George
Laurens, Mrs. S. G. Aarons, Mrs. Erwin
Fauser and Mrs. Maurice Nathan.
☆ ☆ ☆
March 28 is the date chosen by the
Victoria League for the Jubilee dinner-
ball to be held in the Royale Ballroom.
The Governor and Lady Brooks will be
present. Ticket secretaries are Marion
McPherson (BM 1832), Pamela Middle-
ton (BY 3998), and Charmian Watt
(BY 1068). Mrs. Guy Bakewell is senior
vice-president and Mrs. Ronald Austin
and Mrs. Frank May vice-presidents.
Elizabeth, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Lindsay Mildred, has just been elected
president of the Wool Ball committee
which works for the Ramsay Mailer
Opportunity Youth Clubs. She is also
secretary of the club's public- and press-
relations officer, Mrs. M. A. Burke.
Elizabeth and her twin-sister Patricia
took out their B.A. degrees at the Uni-
versity last week. The Opportunity
Clubs’ White and Gold dinner-dance will
be held at Ciro’s on March 28.
A capacity audience attended the
Grosvenor Theatre for the preview of the
color-film of The Bolshoi Ballet, proceeds
from which were given to the Royal
Children’s Hospital. President of the
Hospital, Lady Murdoch, received the
official guests, among whom were the
Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Cr.
and Mrs. F. W. Thomas). Lady Murdoch
chose a graceful gown of grey-and-black
patterned chiffon, Mrs. Thomas a short
beige lace frock, the tiered skirt mounted
oh taffeta. In the audience were Lady
Gullett, Lady Steele, Mrs. Simon Fraser,
Mr. and Mrs. Alastair Mackinnon, Mrs.
Dorothy Gitsham (wearing a sack-dress
of sage-green velvet), Mrs. Bonnie Hill
and her daughter Gaye Grunden, the
Henry Dennetts, Mrs. Charles Davidson,
Marie Balfour, Sir Frank and Lady Tait
and Jennie and Eileen Brennan.
SYDNEY
A marriage of interest to the Mac-
gregor clan, and to the Butlers, is
reported by Beverly Longworth-Lee, the
Canadian-Australian writer who is sec-
retary of the Contemporary Recorded
Music Group, which is currently present-
ing Saturday-morning recitals in the
Great Restaurant at Jones’.
The wedding is that of Miss Lee’s
cousin, Miss Fanny Butler, with Gregor
Macgregor, son and heir of Sir Malcolm
Macgregor, the present Chief of the Clan.
Highlight of the reception was the toast
to the bride, proposed in a stirring speech
by the Home Secretary, Mr. R. A. Butler.
The wedding, which took place at Saffron
Waldon (Eng.), was designed in white and
gold, with the colors of the Macgregor
tartan as contrast. There were 10 brides-
maids, eight of them little girls who wore
frilled white dresses with gold head-
dresses and gold sashes. The other two
bridesmaids were in gold lame and the
two pages in tartan.
The bride wore white satin and with
it two heirlooms ; a diamond tiara which
belonged to the Butler family, and a
diamond-and-sapphire brooch from the
Macgregors.
As the bride and groom left the church
they made their way through a guard-of-
honor of Major Macgregor’s regiment as
the Clan pipers provided traditional
music. The 700 guests assembled in the
ballroom of Shortgrove for the recep-
tion, and as the young couple left for
their honeymoon four pipers preceded
them down the wide staircase playing the
traditional air, “The Young Macgregor.”
After the honeymoon Major and Mrs.
Macgregor will make their home in
Windsor, where Major Macgregor’s
regiment, The Scots Guards, is stationed.
☆ ☆ ☆
Conviviality and informality were the
twin notes struck at a delightful Sunday-
evening buffet-dinner and musicale given
at the Alexis, Kingsford, by the Aisling
Society (pronounced with a “sh” by all
true Hibernians, bedad!) in honor of St.
Patrick’s Day. The atmosphere was that
of a happy family-gathering rather than
one of members of a society, and it was
a natural corollary, with over 100 sons
and daughters of the Quid Sod present,


that effervescent laughter ran music of
the nostalgic kind a good race through-
out the night. The neatly-worded toast
of The Day We Celebrate, given by
Aisling president James A. Meagher, was
responded-to by Irish Charge d’Affaires
W- B. Butler.
A feature of the festivities was the
spontaneous chain-reaction set-off by
those who contributed so attractively to
the earlier musical programme arranged
by Isobei Bradley—mezzo-contralto Mary
Blake, Gilsullivan tenor Terence
O’Donoghue and soprano Jean London.
Astrid Frost sang and played on her
diminutive Irish harp ; Michael Sheahan
and others sang traditional songs, and
half-a-dozen others made their contri-
butions. Joan Callinan was an alert,
sympathetic accompanist.
The smoothness and success of the
function was a tribute to the energetic
secretary of the society, Mary Hegarty.
And, of course, over it all beamed the
benign and won’t-wear-off smile of the
Rev. Father N. McNally.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Firm is fortunate indeed to have
at its disposal in the current season of
Gilbert and Sullivan such talented young
people as Roslyn Dunbar and Jane
Martin. With “The Mikado,” 20-year-
old Roslyn made her debut to Sydney
audiences in the leading role, taking over
from Helen Roberts ; her Yum Yum was
the personification of mischievousness,
her light soprano most attractive. In the
current “Ruddigore” Jane was the hit of
the opening night. There was quite a
touch of Ophelia about her first
appearance, with her staring eyes and
“strange” expression ; then she whisked
the role into the realms of comedy by
wild leapings—a capital effect; hers is
a Mad Margaret which has obviously
been given solid preparation, but
which in performance certainly has no
smell-of-the-lamp atmosphere.
ks w
Some very rich and spectacular gar-
ments were shown by Beril Jents at her
Autumn and Winter Collection in her
salon during the week. She has
elaborated on the sack, giving a series of
diagonal tucks to decorate the front of
one, a lattice-hemline through which the
legs can be seen to another. The
pumpkin-skirt (which looks rather like
Cinderella’s pumpkin in process of turn-
ing into a coach) is very popular and is
adding variety to the waltz-length skirt.
A long-sleeved pullover in black with a
wide band of rich wool-embroidery
stretching from neckline to wrist on each
sleeve was a happy thought.
In the non-sack class were those
dresses with the multiple petticoats in
matching color. One very striking
ensemble featured a cream satin dress
embroidered with gold, puffed-out by
numerous gold petticoats and covered
with a golden coat.
V # #
It is interesting to see in the show-
rooms of the Rosenthale Chinaware
House, newly opened in Sydney, examples
of the dinner-sets made by this old
German firm for famous and rich people
throughout the world. For instance,
there is a plate, green-bordered and
heavily embossed with gold, which
shows the design of a dinner-set supplied
to an Eastern potentate —the cost of the
service being £110,000! It seems that
the Shah in question wanted a service
for 36 persons and a dinner-service in
the same pattern to be given as a present
to every guest.
Diana Stannard, daughter of Captain
R. B. Stannard, V.C., D.S.O., and Mrs.
Stannard, of Balmoral Heights, has
announced her engagement to Brian
Bruly, who came from the B.B.C. in
London a short time ago to join the
A.B.C. in Sydney. Diana started her
training as a nurse at the Great Ormond
Hospital in London and is now on the
staff of the Royal Alexandra Hospital
for Children. The wedding will take
place in June , Photo by Norton Trevaire.
How the fashions in fur change! The
display of exclusive garments shown by
Renee and Bruno Stern, of Melbourne,
last week included phantom-beaver, blue-
black seal, ocelot, Persian-lamb, broadtail
and Russian-lynx, as well as the Arctic-
fox, mink, sapphire (champagne, etc.),
sable and ermine. A feature is the
accurate dyeing of furs to match coats
and jackets, a gold Persian-lamb, for
instance, trimming a gold facecloth coat
in precisely the same color, a beige
Angora coat with a beige Arctic-fox.
Suede is used with good effect trimmed
with beaver or with Persian-lamb, and
the cut and styling of all coats is allied
closely to the season’s line, though we
have yet to see a sack made of sable!
* ☆ to
Lady Gowrie, who keeps in touch so
faithfully with her many friends in Aus-
tralia, sends word that she is at present
holidaying in Majorca, where the sunshine
reminds her of Australia. She sends
sympathy for those affected by the bush-
fires, with a wish that 1958 may bring
with it a more peaceful world.
☆ ☆ ☆
Social functions for the season are now;
setting firm dates. Today (Wednesday,
Mar. 19) at 2.45 p.m. the Women’s
Auxiliary of the Royal Empire Society
will hold the first At Home and Musical®
of the Year, when Mrs. R. G. Pollard,
wife of the G.O.C. Eastern Command,
will be guest-of-honor. Next to come up is
the Town and Country Ball at Prince’S
on April 1, in aid of the Smith Family*
Mrs. Clinton Ayers is president of this
committee. The Red Cross Ball, o£
which Mrs. Leonard Lloyd Lewis is presl*
dent, is set down for August 13, and the
committee hope to make it the glamor*
ball of the year. The Black and White
Ball, of which Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere is
president again, is to take place in the
October racing-carnival week.
CANBERRA
The forming of Group I of the
Penguin Club in Canberra got off to a
good start when 60 interested women,
attended an evening reception a$
University House. Federal president (and
co-founder) Mrs. M. Jean. Ellis came from
Sydney to talk about the club’s aims and
objects, which are to encourage the art
of public speaking among women and
to foster correct usage of the English
language. Formed in Sydney in 1937,
the club now has over 1000 branches
throughout Australia.
* ☆ ft
“Canberra Day” has entered the
calendar of anniversary celebrations, and
although not yet the excuse for a public
holiday, it has this year been marked in
a positive way for the first time. It
commemorates the naming of Canberra
by Lady Denman, wife of the then
Governor-General, on March 12, 1913.
To highlight the celebrations, a late-
afternoon reception was given by the
Minister for the Interior, Mr. Allen Fair-
hall. Floodlit banks of Australian wild-
flowers decorated the foyer of the Albert
Hall, where 600 guests were welcomed
by the Minister, assisted by the Interior
Department secretary, Mr. W. A.
McLaren, and Mrs. McLaren (she wore a
smart cocktail-hat in black-and-gold
braid with her black frock). Noted
among the guests were Mr. and Mrs.
John Howse ; Mr. and Mrs. Cyril Davies;
Mr. and Mrs. Sim Bennett; Mr. and Mrs.
Dennis Mason and Mr. D. O’Sullivan.
Two large paintings from the Parlia-
ment House gallery, depicting the site of
the Federal capital in 1912, formed part
of the decoration and added a historical
touch.


Missing Beneficiary
WOULD the wife of LEONARD
AUGUSTUS CLARKE, who died in New
Zealand on 23rd April, 1956, or any
person knowing her whereabouts, please
communicate with the DISTRICT
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Whangarei, New
Zealand.
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week.
persons who saw him land on
the beach were a lone British
officer, who had been sent from
Montgomery’s headquarters to
conduct the Fighting French
leader thither, Moorehead and
me —and, of course, Tilly, sur-
named sur-Seulles.
Le Grand Charles gloomily
shook hands with the British
officer, gloomily eyed Tilly,
Moorehead and me, then
gloomily went his way to
Bayeux. Moorehead and I
each wrote a story of De
Gaulle’s homecoming for our
newspapers, but we agreed that
British puritanism would dis-
qualify it from publication
under the only appropriate
headline: “Three Britons, One
French Bitch Greet De Gaulle.”
I am sorry to have to record
that Tilly was never able to
learn a proper reverence for
things sacred, as distinct from
things profane. Perhaps this
was not surprising in the atmo-
sphere of her time. She must
have inspected, on her travels
about N ormandy, more
churches wrecked by the
retreating Germans or pul-
verised by the bombardments
of the advancing Allies than
any bitch of doubtful parentage
could have stomached without
losing her sense of spiritual
values. There was such a
church in the little valley of
Beuville, a few miles from the
city of Caen. It was an old
church, and it had been heavily
scarred in the battle for the
village, but the summit of its
tower gave us a commanding
view of the field of battle out-
side Caen one sunny morning
early in July.
We climbed up into the tower
on insecure ladders, which
someone had put there as a
temporary substitute for the
shattered stone stairway. Tilly,
gripped under Philip Dunn’s
arm, ascended with us. British
batteries were thudding away
somewhere behind us, and ail
occasional German shell was
dropping on the outskirts of
Beuville. A blue haze, smoke
and dust intermingled, hung
over Caen, and over Lebisey
Wood and the village
of Lebisey, which lay
between us and Caen.
British and Canadian troops
were closing on the village and
the wood as we watched;
tanks were moving through
cornfields, and from the heart
of the wood a column of black
smoke rose, drifting and sway-
ing above the trees, like an
uneasy mark-of-interrogation.
We watched for a while, then
climbed down from the tower.
One of us tried the handle of
the great door leading into the
church. The handle turned,
and the door swung open. We
walked in and looked about us.
Most of the stained - glass
windows were smashed, and
the walls had been chipped by
bullets, but the church was less
heavily damaged than many
another I had seen in the
bridgehead. I was gaping about
me when I saw two brindle
rabbits and a black crouched
in the middle of the aisle. They
were sleek, fat creatures, and
evidently quite tame. They
sat, eyeing us timidly, but
making no move to run for
cover. There came a sudden
clicking of claws on the floor,
and a white-and-black rocket
flashed down the aisle. It was
Tilly, surnamed sur-Seulles.
The rabbits ran for their
lives, squeaking in terror, but
Tilly chased one of the brindles
into a corner. She bowled him
over, and in a trice had his
throat in her jaws. The rabbit’s
expectation of life seemed
short, but Dunn moved hardly
less fast than Tilly. He
sprinted down the aisle, vaulted
a pew, and grabbed Tilly by
the scruff of the neck. She clung
to the rabbit’s throat a moment
longer, and then, recognising
the authority of her master’s
hand, she opened her jaws and
released her victim. The squeal-
ing rabbit scuttled away to the
farthest corner and crouched
there, wide-eyed, palpitating,
but unhurt. Dunn strode to the
door with Tilly, thrust her out
of the church and firmly closed
the door.
I have always hoped that
Tilly, when she came at last to
whatever heaven may be
reserved for orphan mongrels,
was not called upon to answer
a charge of attempted murder
in the very shadow of the altar.
The city of Caen was stormed
a few days later. W T e found the
brigadier commanding the
infantry spearheads sitting that
morning in a roadside field out-
side the village of Lebisey, now
a deserted huddle of wrecked
houses, some with blackened
walls where fire had swept over
them. We asked him if we
might go forward into Caen
with his men. He gave us his
permission, telling us we must
walk.
It was about a mile to the
outskirts of Caen, and we set
off on foot along the road.
Tilly came with us. Tilly always
came. To Tilly, it was just
another day ; she did not know
what the cost of taking Caen
had been in lives, blood and
metal. If she thought about
higher things at all, it was
doubtless to hope there would
be a few morsels of food for
her, at the end of this dusty
trek. She trotted along on her
short legs, untroubled by the
explosion of an occasional shell
thrown over by a battery of
German 88’s, which had con-
tinued to hojld out on a ridge
commanding the roadway.
I envied Tilly her sang-froid.
The road ran through bare
fields ; it was not screened by
trees or bushes, and even the
ditches at each side were no
more than a few inches deep,
and, walking there under the
eyes of the German gunners,
I was acutely conscious of the
mortality of human flesh,
especially my own. Luckily,
the gunners were either short
of ammunition or weary of the
hopeless fight; their shelling
was so sporadic as to qualify
merely as token defiance.
We had walked about half-a-
mile when a Sherman tank
came rolling up the road
behind us. Tilly, an insatiable
busybody, was digging in the
ditch at the other side of the
road. I do not know what she
hoped to find there —possibly
a cache of food, buried by some
retreating German. She chose
the very moment when the tank
had all but overtaken us to end
her scratching and start back
to us.
Philip Dunn yelled “Tilly!
Tilly! Tilly!” but she paid no
heed; Tilly was always an un-
disciplined bitch. A track of
the Sherman struck her on the
head, and the tank went rolling
on. Tilly lay dead on the road-
\vay, a bitch of war who had
gone to war once too often.
We carried her body to the
ditch and scraped out a shallow
grave and buried her there,
without a stone to mark the
place. Then we walked on into
Caen, not saying much.
ANSER BARBARA
“O wild one, stay, O restless bird,
Ride no more on the wind away ;
Feathers folded and quiet feet,
O wild one, stay!”
“I am my flight, the wind my
breath,
All motion is my point of rest,
Trim not my wings to your
heart's beat,
Slay not your guest.”
“See, wild one, here is your
dwelling-place,
Enter, possess, this is your own :
My knife is sheathed, my sword
laid down
On the proud stone.”
“Lay not down your arms for
me:
/ am the strife in the cosmic
dust;
Keep bright your sword; for me
no knife
Shall gather rust.”
“And have my hands no power
to hold,
My heart no warmth for your
cold wing ?
No word to stay you from your
flight
Where the stars sing ?”
<
“Withdraw, O hands, and I will
come
And dwell in you, in all, in none ;
And shut my ears to the singing
stars
When desire is gone
“Where flight is gone, and the
wind is fled
Where silence falls from the lips
of God;
Beyond the worlds, where his
own foot
Has never trod.”
q.
DOROTHY AUCHTERLONIE.


rounded presentation of a soul,” with
the difference that Mahony’s soul was
much more complex than that of either
of the two unfortunate heroines.
Elsie Cole, who “used to like going
to tea next door,” gives a picture of
H.H.R. resting on her long settee by
the fire, “in her black satin working-
suit or pyjamas, with the long, close-
fitting sleeves and, it seemed to me, a
yard-long cigarette-holder between her
lips.”
And finally, in the longest and most
intimate of all the pen-pictures, Olga
Roncoroni tells the story of her friend-
ship with the novelist, from their first
meeting when Miss Roncoroni was a
pianist in a cinema at Lyme (afraid,
because of some curious inhibition, to
walk without one of her parents
“further than the second lamp-post
along the front”), to the heroic days of
the air-raids and the final illness and
death: how H.H.R. was particularly
fond of a cat named Panky; how, in
her suffragette days, she once put an
envelope full of ink into a letter-box
so that it would splash the other letters;
how she loved reading poetry aloud;
how she liked the cinema, cards,
detective-stories and, in conversation,
“a good story, even a somewhat bawdy
one, provided it was witty”; how her
house was considerably enlivened by a
poltergeist which threw the furniture
about and threaded wool around the
railings of the stairs; how H.H.R. had
to spend two days in bed recovering
from the strain of receiving the Aus-
tralian Literature Society’s gold medal
for 1929 at Australia House; and how,
after the last “virulent attack” of her
illness, all she said before lapsing into
unconsciousness was “Well, well!”
The book could have been better
organised to avoid the obituary tone
which pervades nearly all the contribu-
tions, but it would have been a pity
to have missed that last tremendous
comment on the indignity of human
frailties.
D. S.
James Tyrrell's Poet
Although it contains some lively
information on the founders of “The
Bulletin” as well as a wonderful photo-
graph of Archibald and Haynes lolling
at ease in the bosky herbage of
Darlinghurst jail, James R. Tyrrell’s
Postscript (Tyrrell’s Pty., Ltd., Sydney)
is essentially a monograph on the for-
gotten poet James Lionel Michael, the
friend and benefactor of Kendall.
Michael was a Sydney solicitor, the
author of two books of poems and a
third, unpublished collection, which
Kendall transcribed in his own hand-
writing and which Tyrrell, having
acquired the MSS. (“I regard this item
as one of the most important and
exciting ‘finds’ that I have made for
many a long year”), has printed in the
present volume. It was Joseph Sheridan
Moore, a Sydney man of letters whom
Kendall described as “emphatically a
mountebank of the first water,” who
introduced the young poet to Michael;
and, says Tyrrell,
Michael took Kendall into his
office, and when he left Sydney in
1861 to practise law at Grafton
(N.S.W.), Kendall went with him as
his clerk. Kendall spent two periods
with Michael at Grafton, where he
was enchanted with the beauty of
the Orara, the crystal stream that
enters the Clarence at Ramornie.
The solicitor was afterwards found
drowned in the Clarence, and
apparently it was .believed that he
committed suicide, although the
coroner returned an open verdict and
“Michael’s friends contended that his
death was due either to an accident or
as a result of foul play.” From the
report of the inquest which Tyrrell
prints as an appendix it appears that the
one vital question which would have
helped the coroner to make up his
mind was never asked: namely, was
the poet-solicitor in the habit of taking
a stroll along the river-bank at dusk?
In favor of the suicide-theory there
is evidence that he had been in
ill-health, was worried about money,
had left on his desk a poem saying that
he had no hope in life and “My Father,
I will go to thee,” and that he had
written a letter to be delivered to a
friend (“in case of accident”) about
the guardianship of his son. On the
other hand, according to his house-
keeper, he left his house cheerfully
smoking his pipe and wearing his
goloshes (an odd garment to be
drowned in); still smoking his pipe,
he said a normal good-evening
to a Grafton policeman he met
on his way to the river; and,
most importantly, his body was found
to have a severe injury to the right
eye—“ The frontal bone of the orbit
was broken in by the force of the
blow; the injuries were such as would
be more likely to be produced from
falling on something than from a
blow.” So, if it could have been estab-
lished that he customarily walked along
the river the likeliest explanation
would seem to be simply that the poor
fellow slipped on the bank, stunned
or dazed himself, and so into the water
and was drowned.
Kendall thought highly of his poetry,
writing the tribute:—
Go on-r-I shall follow:
’Tis well you should lead;
For. teacher, without you,
I shake like a reed.
Today it is Kendall who appears to
lead and Michael, at an appreciable
distance, to follow. Except in a brief
generalised reference to “broad Aus-
tralia’s virgin gold” and a couple of
abstract patriotic pieces he made no
attempt—as Kendall did —to come to
terms with his Australian environ-
ment; and while this might be under-
standable in the period, his verses on
love, wine and his personal problems
do not emerge with any particular
distinction from the fashion of the
times. Only in a couple of recollec-
tions of his childhood has he anything
fresh and solid to contribute:—
So turns my soul back from its
sterner troubles
To the silver river stealing through
the willows,
Where I sat in boyhood watching
waterbubbles
Dancing and breaking on its tiny
billows ;
To the grey old beeches in the
springtime budding,
And the long lush grasstufts on the
river’s border ;
To the starry marsh-flowers, white
and purple, studding
The long wild bank with beauty in
disorder.
But here, obviously, is quite charm-
ing writing; and it is not to be sup-
posed that such a talent manifested
itself only once in a lifetime. On the
contrary, if you don’t ask too much of
them, some of the light lyrics such as
“The Wine Leaps Up in Pearls of
Gold” are very pleasing; and some of
the rather sad personal poems, particu-
larly the longish “Introspection,” have
a moving sincerity and eloquence.
“Postscript” is, of course, a postscript
to James Tyrrell’s “Old Books, Old
Friends, Old Sydney,” and while it is
not intended to have either the richness
or the solidity of the earlier memoirs,
it is a pleasant and useful little book
for anyone interested in Australian
literary histoiy.
The Dumas Family
Undoubtedly the greatest of the
Three Musketeers (General Dumas;
Dumas the Father; Dumas the Son), by
Andre Maurois (Cape), was the central
figure, Alexandre Dumas the Father,
of whom Maurois says when he comes
to record his death:—
What a strange mixture of persons
and events: a Norman marquis, a
black slave, an hotel-keeper of the
Valois... .all these had combined to
give birth to the greatest story-
teller of all time and of all lands.
An English reader might well demur
at such absolute praise, and yet agree
that of all the world’s authors Dumas
throws most light on the dark Shak-
spearian problem, how a half-educated
boy can grow into a great writer with


history at his fingertips and an under-
standing of the full range of humanity
from peasant to king. If he lacked
Shakspeare’s profundity, he shared
Shakspeare’s generosity ; indeed, in dif-
ferent ways, generosity was the main
characteristic of grandfather, father and
son.
The General, Thomas-Alexandre,
had the generosity of a simple heart
and immense strength and courage. He
was a mulatto, son of the Marquis de
la Pailleterie, a plantation-owner of
San Domingo, and a black slave,
Cesette Dumas. Brought to Paris at
18, he enlisted in the Army, and,
impressing the soldiery with his ability
to thrust “four fingers into the barrels
of four muskets and then raise all four
weapons at the full extent of his arm,”
no less than by his fondness for read-
ing Caesar and Plutarch, he was rapidly
advanced to a colonelcy under the War
Ministry of the Revolution, became
one of Napoleon’s generals, doing
things like scaling a cliff and then
throwing his men over a wall at the top
of it which they could not climb, and
then, having lost his health after being
poisoned as a prisoner-of-war, was
abandoned by Napoleon and returned
to his wife, the innkeeper’s daughter, to
rot and to die.
His son, Alexandre Dumas, the
quadroon, was brought up in the
country, in poverty, taught by his
mother and sister to read and write,
running wild in the forest, enthusiastic
about dancing, fencing and shooting.
All he had to sell when he came to
Paris at nineteen or twenty was his
excellent handwriting, which got him a
job in the secretariat of the Duke of
Orleans and brought him under the
notice of the second-in-command of the
department, Lassagne, who supervised
his studies of ancient and modern
dramatists.
So, having dabbled in amateur
dramatics in his youth, and making
use of his gluttonous readings of
the histories and memoirs which now
lay so readily to his hand, he wrote in
two months his play “Henry III,” which
set him in the foremost ranks of the
Romanticist rebellion against the long
Classical tradition of France.
Over the years, his triumphs in the
theatre brought him plays by amateurs
which he was able to cobble into suc-
cessful theatre-productions; it was thus
that he met Auguste Maquet, the col-
laborator on whom he was to base the
success of his novels. He turned a play
by this history-lecturer into a success, '
and rewrote Maquet’s novel “Le
Chevalier d’Harmental,” for the “con-
tinued in our next” serialisation devised
in 1829 by a Dr. Veron.
Dumas had become, with his genius
for the suspense-ending of a serial-
instalment, no less than for a brilliant
curtain-line in a play, the most sough?-
after of Paris serial-writers:—
“A serial signed ‘Alexandre
Dumas’ is worth three francs a line,”
said Emile de Girardin (editor of
“La Presse”). “Signed ‘Dumas and
Maquet’ it is worth only three sous.”
So the collaboration continued, with
only the name of Dumas, into their
second novel “The Three Musketeers.”
Maurois goes into considerable detail to
assert the superiority of Dumas to any
of his collaborators and “the ease with
which he transformed into stories
bubbling with life any literary mon-
strosity which reached him in a half-
dead condition,” but the wonder is that
he has been able to pack so much of
Dumas the Father into merely part of
a 500-page book.
Parallel with the procession of mis-
tresses goes the procession of books.
“The Count of Monte Cristo” is fol-
lowed by the equally fabulous mansion
of Monte Cristo, which cost Dumas one
fortune to build and landscape, and
more than another to live in. Then
there is his financial ruin, his journey
to Russia, participation in Garibaldi’s
revolution in Italy; his emergence as
Director of Antiquities in Naples; and
his foundation of a paper in Naples
for which he wrote the equivalent of
fifteen or twenty volumes —political
articles, news-items, long historical
articles, serial-novels, proclamations,
plans for military campaigns; and
besides these a history of the Bourbons
of Naples in eleven volumes, a novel,
the “Memoirs of Garibaldi,” and a
paper on “The Origin of Brigandage.”
If the father’s generosity was of
words, women and work, the generosity
of Dumas the Son was a generosity of
expiation. Born soon after his father’s
coming to Paris, of a poor sempstress,
he had the woes of the illegitimate
child and the abandoned mother etched
upon his soul.
He grew up to share, as a young man,
both his father’s house and his father’s
profligacy (his father counted it a
virtue that at least he acknowledged
his children by various mistresses); but
the affair with the consumptive Marie
Duplessis, which gave him the play
and the novel “The Lady of the
Camellias,” set the life of the young
Dumas in a groove. He married the
widowed Princess Naryschkine, for
several years his mistress; and as she
grew into an acid wife, he devoted his
dramatic and literary life to the defence
of downtrodden women against heart-
less seducers, managing to prop-off the
horde of actresses and others who made
such strenuous efforts upon his own
virtue until, late in life, he fell to the
attack of an actor’s daughter, little
more than a child, whom he married
some years later on the death of his
wife. It made a curious ending to that
dynasty.
Maurois, as he says himself, had a
magnificent book thrown into his lap in
the endless action and scandal of this
triobiography. His contribution has
been a most successful labor of com-
pression and selection. Perhaps his
best selection is the story of the actor
Bocage, who had the curtain rung-
down on him before he could speak
one of the playwright’s most telling
curtain-lines: “She resisted me—and
so I killed her!”
Bocage stalked in dudgeon to his
dressing-room and stayed there,
although the audience clamored for
him to come back and say the line;
so after a while Marie Dorval, who
had been lying dead on the stage, rose
and advanced to the footlights:—
“Gentlemen,” she said, “I resisted
him —and so he killed me.”
Then, with a deep curtsy, she made
her exit “to an accompaniment of
thunderous applause.”
Minstrel of the Goldfields
Apart from the songs in it, the
advantage of Hugh Anderson’s Gold-
rush Songster (Rams Skull Press) is
that it tells us something about that
mysterious troubadour of the goldfields,
Charles Thatcher, about whom very
little has been published, though his
songs are in various anthologies and
some were taken and rubbed around in
the outback until they became a part
of Australian folklore. Thatcher was
in New Zealand as well as in Aus-
tralia and, from Bendigo to Tuapeka,
covered in song and acreage a pretty
wide area of the goldfields.
Who was he?
Tall and handsome, says Ander-
son; born in Bristol in 1831; played
the flute in theatre orchestras in
London; came out to Bendigo to make
his fortune on the goldfields in 1853
and, not striking it lucky, started to
sing about the fields in tents and
shanties and theatres; and there did
strike gold:—
Thatcher was as popular as ever
[reported a Bendigo theatre-critic]
and his clever, sarcastic songs gave
infinite amusement; his song of the
HAWK
Up the white road with a flight
Of small birds forever from his talons
He flows like time, falls like night.
They die; and yet his hunger lives,
Flies in his likeness through barren skies
While the earth beneath his drab banner,
gives
To him its secret, as a woman in desire
Yields her warm nesting to the cold fire.
n.z.
BARRY MITCALFE.


MIDDLE EAST JOURNEY
by Jehu Laffin
John Laffin’s Return to Glory, the story of his search for “where the war was"
awakened memories of the Kokoda Trail and the battlefields of New Guinea for
thousands of ex-servicemen. Recently he made a journey to the Middle East,
North Africa, Sicily and Saudi Arabia; this new book gives to-day’s picture of
these places and describes the trails left by the Australian troops.
18/6 (post 9d.)
A t all booksellers and . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereasrh Street, Sydney
THE ASTONISHED EARTH
Humphrey Kempe
A practical account of land reclamation by irrigation
along the Murray River.
ILLUSTRATED
At all booksellers - - - 30/-
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON ! : MELBOURNE ; : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
[Fire] Brigade, which he sung in the
uniform of the corps, was rapturously
received.... In fact, his stock of
originality, fun and humor appears
to be, like the wizard’s bottle, so
perfectly inexhaustible.
There were, it is true, occasional
lapses in the rapture. A Mr. Thomas
Pope Besnard had-at the minstrel with
a whip for insulting his daughter at the
breakfast-table, and Thatcher after-
wards retaliated by knocking him
down. Then he ran away with Madame
Vitelli, the widow of a Melbourne
singing-teacher, upon which the
Bendigo press commented with the
enviable freedom of the period: —
This modern Orpheus... .had
taken the precaution of being accom-
panied in his flight by a syren whose
society might console him in his
absence from Bendigo. Should he
ever return, we may look forward to
the production of an amusing
travestie, which will contain reminis-
cences of this, his anti-matrimonial
[.v/c] tour.
Undaunted, Thatcher did return
after six months; only to strike renewed
trouble over his song “The Anurous
Bank Manager,” which dealt with the
visits of one of the local bankers to
the wife of a well-known publican, and
to which, for reasons not difficult to
guess, Messrs. Heffeman of the Sham-
rock Inn and Costello of the Axedale
took some exception. Nevertheless, the
singer flourished. He is a delightful
fellow and it is a pity that Hugh
Anderson, who says he has written a
full-length biography which “has not
yet found a publisher,” couldn’t find
space to tell us a little more about him ;
in particular about his adventures in
New Zealand, where, judging by his
song about Major Croker, the
magistrate at Tuapeka, he may have
had as lively a time as in Australia: —
He pounced on poor grogsellers there,
Swooped on them like an eagle,
But one day they discovered his
Convictions were illegal.
Not being gazetted a J.P.,
Some lawyer showed this joker
That his convictions were all bosh,
What nuts for Major Croker.
Thatcher’s songs (of which Anderson
usefully gives the tunes) are, unfor-
tunately, doggerel. Had he only been
able to write a bit better, or even a
bit worse, he might have been the
balladist of the goldfields as Paterson
is of the stockmen, or at least have
had that naivety we value in an old
bush song. All his work, as Anderson
says, shows the marks of haste, a touch
of shoddiness which his lively
personality could easily carry off in
the theatre but which shows too clearly
in cold print.
It was, all the same, clever enough
doggerel, better than a lot in the music-
halls; and there is no doubt that, in
the absence of better balladry, of which
there is not very much, the goldfields
are Thatcher’s property. What some
discerning reviewer said of his
“Colonial Songster” in 1858 is still
valid; “In these humorous songs and
clever sketches a digger’s life, with
its peculiarities and vicissitudes, is
happily portrayed to persons at a
distance, and will be familiar to future
generations when the digger of the days
of rushes, eight-feet claims, and rich
piles got out in a few days, will be only
known by tradition.”
Reviewed Briefly
Experimental Sonnets: Merrill Moore
(Pegasus Press, Christchurch, New
Zealand). Dr. Moore, an American
poet who has had some connection
(war-time. academic?) with New
Zealand, writes a pleasant, conver-
sational kind of sonnet,
That lets old formulae and answers
t- c , ~ , ,
T . , , . ,
i “ 1S e . ls troubled land
pleased) about their irregularity. That
doesn t seem to matter so very much;
they are close enough to the essentials.
But it exaggerates their importance to
think of them as more than pleasant
bits of intelligent conversation . . .
mostly about evolution.
* * * *
Four Modern Verse Plays: This
recent Penguin gives extraordinary
value in including, in one volume, T. S.
Eliot’s “The Family Reunion,”
Christopher Fry’s “A Phoenix Too
Frequent,” Charles Williams’s “Thomas
Cranmer of Canterbury” and Donagh
McDonagh’s “Happy as Larry.”
“Thomas Cranmer” was written for the
Canterbury Festival the year following
“Murder in the Cathedral.” Its fine
nervous verse exhibits more “theatre”
than its more famous predecessor.
Cranmer emerges as a very lovable,
pitiable human being crushed by
spiritual conflicts and surging history
too much for his survival. “Happy as
Larry” is a gay, almost riotous comedy
which goes its happy way in jolly verse
owing its style and rhythm to the street-
ballads of Dublin.
* * * *
English Love Poems: John Betjeman
and Geoffrey Taylor (Faber). It looks
as though the editors are avoiding the
obvious; Browning, whose diagnoses
of love left the other poets of his
century miles behind, has only three
pieces, not anywhere near his best,
while Suckling, the brightest light-of-
love England ever had, is dismissed
with two. On the other hand, there are
curiosities, such as that William
Habington (1605-1654) thought of
“Chaste nunnery of her breasts” (tell
that to Marilyn and Jayne) at the same
time as Lovelace (1618-1658), and
made quite as good an epigram of it;
and among the modern poets it is to be
noticed how well William Empson’s
“Villanelle” stands up.


J
■
ERG TYPE 2 EPH 27 2-volt Home Lighting Battery. Suitable for 12-V,
24-V, 32-V, 56-V and 110-V installations. Capacity: 225 ampere hours.
THE NEW ERG
HOME LIGHTING BATTERY
The transparent polystyrene con-
tainer enables you to SEE how
much acid there is in the battery.
Inbuilt floating gravity
balls indicate state of
charge of cells.
Double insulation (including
glass wool) prevents shed-
ding, ensuring longer life.
GUARANTEED FOR 3 YEARS
ERG BATTERIES Pty. Ltd.
156 GOULBURN ST.. SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTED BY:
Erg Batteries Pty. Ltd. • - SYDNEY
Erg Batteries Pty. Ltd. - - BRISBANE
Keep Bros. & Wood Pty. Ltd. MELBOURNE
David L. Prescott - -
Erg Distributors - - -
J. R. Roe & Company -
ADELAIDE
LAUNCESTON
DARWIN
Waiter Sully & Co. Pty. Ltd. BROKEN HILL
