

The Bulletin
OUTLOOK FOR 1958
January 1, 1958
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
"Yes I'll be along to the Mew Year barbecue if I can get a sitter."


STORY WRITING ! !
MANY STOTT STUDENTS
PAY FOR THEIR COURSE
BEFORE COMPLETING IT.
It will pay YOU to study with STOTT’S.
Note these extracts from letters received:—-
“Since I started my Course, I have had SIX-
TEEN Stories and Articles accepted,, so you see
the Course lias more than PAID FOR ITSELF.”
“I have earned more money while taking the
Course than I paid In fees.”
“My earnings from my Writing total almost
£7O (Les. II).”
“Duiing the past six months my Acceptances
have returned me over £200.”
“I very much enjoyed my studies and more
than paid for the Course with Articles accented.”
STOTT’S CAN TRAIN YOU AT HOME.
Our Literary Prospectus is sent without
obligation to all interested in Writing.
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 St.,
Sjdney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli
nation, your Prospectus. and full particulars at
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S.B. 158)
A OK
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.F.0.,, Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you
text book, biography, history, etc. Mnaarate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
CONTINENTAL NOVELS
A Russian Novel
Vladimir Dudintsev’s Not By Bread
Alone (Hutchinson) is a novel about
drainpipes; and it says much for
Dudintsev’s powers as a novelist that,
even to a reader who has never thought
of being immersed in such a subject, it
remains as compelling as it is curious.
It is not a great novel. There are
oniy glimmerings of the massiveness of
Tolstoy, the grace of Turgenev, the
volcanic depths of Dostoievsky; but
there are at least these glimmerings. It
is an admirable minor novel in the
great Russian tradition; drawing
heavily and openly from its majestic
forebears, yet carrying their methods
into practically virgin territory—the
contemporary Soviet bureaucracy.
Politically, both in the Soviet and
abroad, the novel seems to have been
a sensation. Published in 1956 in three
consecutive issues of the Moscow
literary periodical “Novy Mir” and
subsequently printed in a single-volume
Soviet edition of 30.000 copies, it was
at first, say the publishers, everywhere
praised in Russia for its “truthful-
ness,” its “merciless realism.” then
gradually and increasingly condemned
for “trying to blacken and pull to
pieces all that the Soviet people has
created”; until eventually “Dudintsev,
together with a group of Moscow
writers, has been under great pressure
to make a public admission of his
mistakes.”
In a rather unfortunate epilogue in
which he writes of “the principles
marching to victory in my country”
and “the inevitable victory of the forces
of reason and justice”—it is this
military terminology which is so
regrettable—Dudintsev deplores the
political significance which has been
attributed to his novel.
Of course, in the present disturbed
state of the world, it is inevitable that
it should be read as an exposure. And
besides, it is a political novel. But one
must sympathise to this extent with
Dudintsev that (with reservations about
trips to Siberia, etc.) essentially it is not
more sensational than other sociological
novels that are written anywhere else
in the world—it is merely an attack
on the bureaucracy and, more
importantly, it is literature as well as
sociology. It is a political novel that
“works” because the men and women
in it are alive, their motives plausible,
their drama—when it is not lost in the
technology of drainpipes —told both
excitingly and movingly.
The central figure is Lopatkin, a
schoolteacher who invents a new
method of casting drainpipes by
machinery. The story is his struggle
to have the machine accepted, by the
Government against the vested interests
of the scientists and bureaucrats. The
very natural conclusion is that, after
the years of battle and poverty, after
he has had his machine stolen by the
rival engineers and has been sent to
prison in Siberia on a cooked-up
charge of disclosing official secrets,
Lopatkin in the end sees his invention
triumph—but the bureaucrats, merely
sacrificing one or two minor officials,
still stay firmly in their seats, or, at
the worst, are transferred to other jobs
and promoted.
Lopatkin, though well enough, is
more-or-less a stock character, the
long-suffering indomitable inventor,
and his love-affairs, though again well
enough, are not of much moment; but
in the figure of his most insidious
opponent, Drozdov, a petty careerist
who manages to be always on the side
of the big guns and wriggles out of
every disaster, Dudintsev has created
at least one memorable character.
There is something strangely moving
and desolate in the portrait of this dry,
mean little man who, never daring to
have a friend, sacrificing his associates
without mercy when it is expedient,
losing his wife in the end to Lopatkin,
spends his whole life chasing a career
he knows will never wholly satisfy him.
THE HEART OF THE MATTER
Plodding physicists agree
That matter equals energy;
Energy is sweet delight,
Says Blake, and puts the matter right.
Stars and singing birds rejoice
In their courses with one voice
And from the dreaming atom grows
The chain-reaction of the rose.
Matter would take fire without
The channelling restraints of Thought
That locks wild ardors up in stone
To lend its concepts flesh and bone.
Stars and singing birds rejoice
In their courses with one voice
And from the dangerous atom grows
The thorny passion of the rose.
A.C.T,
David Campbell.
Russian Exile
Edmund Wilson has said of Vladmir
Nabokov, the Russian - American
author of Pnin (Heinemann), that he
“turns out to be a master of English
prose the most extraordinary
phenomenon of the kind since
Conrad ... He is something like
Proust, something like Franz Kafka
and, probably, something like
Gogol . .
These are large words, and the only
thing to do with a small novel so
warmly recommended is to pnin at the
pninning and go right through. Pnin,
like Nabokov himself, is an exile from
the Soviet teaching at an American
university: he is bald, mild, vague,
above all, kindly.
First we meet him in a train, going
to deliver a lecture to the Cremona
Women’s Club; it is the wrong train.
Then he is at his own college. Waindell,
ringing up to rent a room from a Mrs.
Fire, who is really Mrs. Thayer, or,
rather. Mrs. Clements, and kindly
informing her. “I must warn: will have
all my teeth pulled out. It is a repul-
sive operation.”
Then there is a brief meeting with
his wife, whom he still profoundly
cherishes, though she has married two
or three other husbands since she left
him. Her teenage son, very culti-
vated. with advanced theories about
art, comes to stay with him and Pnin
has hastily to hide the football and
the boys’ book by Jack London which
he proposed to present to him. And
there is the*time when, driving to stay
with some other Russian exiles,, Pnin
gets lost in the woods; and the final,
touching scene when, just when he
thinks he is firmly established at the
university and is going to buy a house,
he is sacked—chiefly on the ground
that he really can speak and, read
French, and the university doesn’t want
anybody as expert as all that—and
wanders off proud and disconsolate into
the unknown.
(Continued on page 58)


ANTHONY HORDERNS,
BOX 2712, C.P.0., SYDNEY. B 0951.
Hew release! Pressure Pack
Fire Extinguisher 27'-
Just press the button for instant results
It costs so little to protect your home or your car from fire damage
when you keep a Pressure Pack fire extinguisher handy! A gentle
pressure on the button releases a fine extinguishing chemical . . .
stops fire before it gets a hold! Priced at only 27/- a can! WMI.
rv
/
t *
T"T
5. *
mxf
/
r,
~ i 5
IN THE CAMP IN THE HOME
IN THE CAR
c
&
f
:
1
1
m
m
%
m
WM2. Sana biscuit
forcer. 6 different pat-
terns. Priced at 48/3.
a
I
/
WM3. Aluminium sand-
wich' cutlers save time.
Priced at 2/- each.
WML Tapmaster gives
spray for rinsing dishes,
etc. Priced at 3/11.
m
m
apt
m
WMS. Rite Universal
open-all can opener.
Priced at 6/6 each.
*;
Loci,
s
on
WM6.
cutters.
shapes.
Plastic cookie
10 different
Priced at 9/11.
WM7. Plastic egg
boilers will prevent
eggs cracking. 4/6.
WMB. Plastic cake
cooler. 9 inches in
diameter. 2/11 each.
WM9. Preservit magic
anode. No more rusty
steel wool. At 4/6.
YVMIO. Mandy’s handy
oven cloth prevents
burnt hands. At 7/3.
m
WMll. Plastic cheese
dish and cover. Priced
at only 1/11 each.
Postage extra on these items. Kitchenware, Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Telephone 80951.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, January 1, 1958
Vol. 79—No. 4064
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G 8.0.), Wellington.
OUR COUNTRY
RARELY in recent times has a new
year opened with such political and
economic uncertainty, especially in
Australia. The wool market is down
and hesitant. Wheat exports are non-
existent this season. Metal prices have
fallen, and oil in commercial quantities
has still not been found. Drought has
disconcertingly reappeared after having
been regarded by some as extinct. The
so-called 40-hour week is steadily
becoming recognised as a 30-35-hour
week.
Yet the striking feature of this
suddenly unhappy situation is the
power of resistance to adverse condi-
tions which Australia has developed.
A glimpse backward for half-a-century
makes it clear that present conditions
applied to that time would have meant
national disaster.
It does no harm to look back on
the early 1900’s and to measure
progress. Then a drought no worse
than the present sent thousands of
farmers and graziers into bankruptcy.
There was no secondary-industry worth
the name to help withstand the impact
of short crops, low fleece-yields and
falling prices, but great industrial
mining ventures like, for example, Mt.
Morgan, which employed several
thousand men, were compelled to cut
their staffs in halves, to run at about a
third of normal and to depend very
often on a daily water-train carrying
fluid from a hundred miles or more
away.
Today the population of Sydney
almost universally hurls its Christmas
curses at the unfortunate Water and
Sewerage Board, which has been trying
desperately to keep up with the almost
daily expansion-needs of new suburbs
that are spreading over a rugged
countryside, about as difficult to sewer
as any in the world. Yet it needs to
be remembered that not much more
than a generation ago most Australians,
except within a very limited area of
three or four select cities, did not know
what a hose looked like. Brisbane, for
instance, had no suburban water-supply
or sewerage whatever till after World
War I.
Most of the rest of the country
included thousand-gallon tanks among
its normal household furniture. There
were still large towns in which the
suburban householder, in time of
drought and dry tanks, drew his
water from wells and cleared it with
ashes or alum.
There were still tens of thousands
of Australians who lived in galvanised-
iron shanties, bark shanties, kerosene-
tin huts in what were then pioneering
regions—but which now have refrigera-
tors, radio and electric-power —with-
out drawing a single sob of pity from
the daily press in the days when beer
was considered dear at a shilling the
three-quart billycan and the Hotel
Australia advertised in “The Bulletin”
that it provided the best all-inclusive
board on the continent at £3 10s. a
week.
Nobody in those days would have
attacked a water-board because it had
not completed a £34-million dam to
provide the greatest per-inhabitant
supply of water to a couple-of-million
denizens of a great wen: because £34
million was then an unimaginable sum
to spend on any single enterprise.
In fact, it represented about the
whole annual cost of Government from
revenue of all the States of the Com-
monwealth.
Now such outlay is taken in its
stride. Metropolitan public utilities
raise funds which are comparable with
those of State Governments a few years
back, and it is symptomatic of the
enlargement of view of Australians that
immense works of the stature of the
Snowy River Scheme and Warragamba
Dam, the . £lOO million which a single
company, 8.H.P., proposes to spend
on development of its enterprise in five
years, scarcely rate more than an
occasional unexcited article in the
press.
The progress in electrification and
irrigation and land-improvement every-
where is indeed almost unnoticed
against a background of world-startling
events reported in the press affecting
beautiful maidens in swim-suits (or less)
and jockeys of earth-shaking eminence.
Who among the moaning prophets
of gloom ever pauses in mid-career
to note that the capital invested in the
electrical-industry in Queensland —a
few years ago an utterly sub-standard
State industrially, and especially from
a power-production point of view—
has grown from £6 million to £lO3
million in 20 years, and that units of
electricity generated there have
increased (and comfort and ease of
life in general with their advance) by
over sixfold in that period?
Queensland has budgeted to spend
another £2OO million on electrical
expansion in the next decade —this
apparently apart from any individual
ventures like Weipa and Mt. Isa.
And in every State water-provision
(both by public authorities and by
individuals), fencing which has made
for economical use of feed, culti-
vated pastures, and the absence of the
rabbit are things which are enabling
us to cope with drought and water-
shortage in a manner which would have
been looked on as fantastic only a
generation ago.
All this is a remarkable index to
the resources of the economy—so long
as overseas markets support it.
Fifty years ago the worker with a
family on his hands and continually
threatened with unemployment was
one of the have-nots, and the agitator
found little difficulty in painting horror-
pictures of his lot. In the present day
of the “class-war” and the attenuated
40-hour week it can be said that the
industrial agitato? is probably the only
type of worker in the country who has
to sweat over the job of producing even
sufficient grievances to fill a battered
quart-pot.
In these days, when everybody from
the mother of a family to the children
can find well-paid employment, even
the Communist party has extreme diffi-
culty in not counting the blessings of
Australia as the country with the most
prosperous proletariat in the world,
drought or no drought.
The travail through which Comrades
Sharkey and Dixon of the Communist
party are going in their efforts to rouse
the pity of the world for the Australian
worker would wring a tear from the
most drought-stricken eye.
They have, indeed, had to resort to
such arguments as the following in
their “Communist Review”: —
It may be as well here to refute the
fatuous claims of the capitalist sociolo-
gists that the Australian working-class
are not propertyless because they own
houses, motor-cars, furniture, wireless
and TV-sets, washing-machines and so
on. We can overlook such facts a 5....
that such property is the result of extra
sale of labor-power (overtime, wives
and children working) with a conse-
quent increase of capitalist profit....
The workers are propertyless; they sell
their labor-power, and cannot live
unless they do.
Pity the poor Australian! In drought
or in plenty his economic condition is
miles ahead of that of the Russian, his
progress socially infinitely more rapid
than that of any country behind the
Iron Curtain, and his Commonwealth
is well up out of the ruck in the race of
new and younger nations of the new
world to great-Power status.
He has, in fact, the ball at his feet.
The rest is up to him.




PLAIN ENGLISH
Coming Nearer
The outstanding fact, to Australians, in
current international affairs is that the
centre of ferment has shifted closer to the
Commonwealth’s shores, and that 1958
will be an anxious year —our communi-
cations with Europe interfered with and
conflict within sight of us.
The Indonesian situation becomes
more and more confused. The confusion
seems to be part of deliberate policy
involving methods which are completely
at variance with the viewpoint that the
Government at Djakarta seeks to foster
in the rriinds of other people. It is a
Communist - type confusion —if not
generated by Communist effort at least
born of Communist example.
The technique is to do something and
then deny it; announce that something
has happened and then deny that it has ;
leave the outside world in a whirl of
uncertainty until interest becomes stale,
meanwhile, under cover of the dust-
cloud of delusion, carrying-out a fixed
policy which goes straight to a goal.
It is undoubted that the Communists
made the first seizures of Dutch proper-
ties or guided and directed those who
made them. The Government now denies
this. The Government, when the seizures
took place, denied, also, responsibility
for them. But it condoned them after-
wards, and seized the fruits of them.
Soekarno’s deposition was announced
in certain quarters, and things that were
done lent strong confirmatory color to
the story, which was then denied.
British buildings were seized last week
or notices posted on them to the effect
that they were taken under regulations
said to be promulgated. But in the face
of the physical fact, the Government
denies the seizures, and the British Gov-
ernment finds itself acting in a vacuum
when it moves to protest.
The Dutch are expelled—then some of
them appear not to have been expelled,
but actually constrained not to expel
themselves.
All that is certain about Indonesia is
that it is a ferment of rebellion, repres-
sion and hysteria, all tending towards the
goal of seizure of Dutch New Guinea or
to some move dragging it out of
Dutch hands.
Scarcely less chaotic than the situation
in Indonesia is that developing in Singa-
pore, where a City Council has been
inducted with a Melbourne University-
trained Chinese as mayor, backed by a
mob from the Communist front who
describe themselves as the People’s
Action Party.
His Worship, Comrade Ong, the new
mayor, seems to be a rather poor
advertisement for the kind of political
thinking produced at Melbourne Uni-
versity ; even a poorer one than the
Petrov commission, which uncovered a
remarkable coterie of graduates devoted
to admiration of the Soviet Union.
On the evidence of the first meeting
which he attended followed by a roaring
rabble of young Communists, it seems
that Singapore is well on the way to
being taken over municipally by the
Communist Chinese. All through South-
east Asia Communists are busy with their
plans for the extension of the Iron
Curtain southward towards this country.
Their emissaries are at work ceaselessly.
The latest on his way is the Czech
“Premier,” who has been invited by Mr.
Bandaranaike to visit Ceylon.
Confusion and Weakness
The full report of the debate in the
House of Commons on the Nato Agree-
ment shows it to have been a curious
performance in which Aneurin Bevan
played the unfamiliar role of champion
of British sovereignty.
His attack wa,s focused on a rather
weary speech by Selwyn Lloyd explaining
the results of the Nato Conference, and
the outcome may have given more satis-
faction in the Kremlin than was justified.
Mr. Bevan seemed so fierce that it
could have appeared that he was
frightened of nobody. He was certainly
not frightened of Selwyn Lloyd, whom he
dissected effectively but to the advantage
of the Russians, since he poured scorn
on the crucial fact brought out by Mr.
Lloyd that Russian policy and Russian
actions over the past generation are
deliberately expansionist in accordance
with Communist basic theory.
He and other Labor leaders make a
pretence of holding a starry-eyed faith in
the efficacy of negotiation with an open
and avowed enemy which has so far
shown the treachery of a hamadryad with
opponents too hot to handle physically,
and the brutal savagery of a leopard with
little victims like Hungary and the Baltic
countries within reach of its claws.
The essential factor in Mr. Bevan’s
speech, and one which might have won
him considerable ground save for the
obvious hypocrisy of his indignation in
the face of facts, was his insistence that
British sovereignty should not be deeded
to the Americans.
He said (1) that for U.S. aircraft to be
allowed to carry H-bombs over Britain
implied a state of mobilisation only one
step short of war ; (2) that while Labor
was willing to abrogate British sovereignty
for an overriding international purpose,
it was not prepared to do it merely to
add to the sovereign power of another
nation; (3) that if additional military
facilities were to be provided for a foreign
Power in the U.K., they must be under
the complete political control of the
British people through the Government.
And he was not prepared to allow Ameri-
can control or veto over the use of
missile-bases in Britain.
The effect of this heroic outburst, so
un-Bevanlike save in its political cun-
ning, was marred by the Prime Minister’s
assurance that there had been no special
alert to prompt the carrying of H-bombs
in the British area by U.S. aircraft, and
that all that had happened was that
occasionally, with a view to training and
the production of maximum efficiency,
these loaded aircraft had been flown out
to sea and then back to their bases.
Next, the Prime Minister made it clear
that the new agreement with the U.S.
about intermediate-range ballistic-missile
bases gave the British Government abso-
lute power to veto the use of the Weapons
from British soil.
Finally, he suavely answered a question
as to when U.S. bombers had first flown
with triggered nuclear bombs off British
soil by remarking that it was before 1951
—showing that the Attlee Government,
of which Mr. Bevan was a member, had
had no qualms about doing what Mr.
Bevan now condemned.
At the same time Macmillan expressed
the Government's readiness to hold any
discussions with Russia or anybody else
to secure world peace, but not to relax
security precautions.
The Government won a vote of con-
fidence with a majority of 38.
But with Mr. Bevan accepting
Bulganin’s say-so and lending him
authority in Westminster, and Dr. Evatt
following Molotov in Australia, plus the
wandering Mr. Gaitskell, Mr. Bevan’s
leader, lambasting British policy, trumpet-
ing his party’s reluctance to accept
Seato and the Baghdad Pact and .enunci-
ating what seemed to be a different policy
from Mr. Bevan’s at Karachi, it is no
wonder that the twilight world of the
Middle East and South-eastern Asia is
confused and is apt to feel that Russia is
the only great nation in the world with
fixed unity of purpose.
Wonderful Melbourne
Arthur O’Connor, a seasoned news-
paperman of the older school even when
he was appointed 27 years ago to repre-
sent the Australian National Travel
Association in the U.S., is currently
paying his first visit since then to his home
State, Victoria, and disabusing its
citizens of some misconceptions about
North America.
This is refreshing and necessary,
because of the obsequious attitude to the
United States of the Melbourne press,
radio and TV-stations, the starry-eyed
copywriters for the department-shops and
sundry businessmen who, not yet having
attempted to sell America anything com-
mercially, still cherish technicolor
illusions of it.
The cumulative impact of all these
influences might be expected to impel the
common Melburnian, condemned to
spend his dreary life outside “The States,”
to touch his forelock whenever the Presi-
dent’s name is mentioned; but, fortu-
nately, he doesn’t; and O’Connor’s forth-
right views will fortify the solid and
insular fellow in his attitude. They are
designed to keep him Australian.
O’Connor says he has never seen a
more beautiful city than Melbourne, with
its clean, straight streets and lovely
suburbs ; he likes the Yarra, which brings
big ships almost into the heart of the
city; he thinks the elaborate gridiron of
trains, trams and buses are wonderful,
and he says the food is quite equal to any
he ever has tasted.
On the other hand, many of those


magnificent American rivers are just dirt
and sand except when it rains and they
become raging torrents ; the New York
subway is a horror ; some cities have no
suburban trains or buses, and the street-
cars are slow and infrequent; if you
travel at less than 50 miles an hour on
the freeways you are liable to be prose-
cuted for holding-up traffic, and they are
already inadequate, anyway.
Arthur O’Connor admits he is
infuriated by the Australian inferiority-
complex, and proposes to do his bit
towards throttling it later in Sydney. His
is only one voice, albeit authoritative,
against the torrent of Americanism by
misguided Australians, and it should be
encouraged, since it is designed to restore
a sense of proportion and a faith in our-
selves which the better and more
perceptive Americans are astonished to
find we lack.
O’Connor is now committed to spend-
ing his life in the U.S. Since he retired
from A.N.T.A. he writes a newspaper
travel-column, lectures professionally
and, even more importantly, has
American grandchildren ; his daughter
was for many years Rome representative
for “Life” magazine, and a son is one of
Walt Disney’s lieutenants. Two other
children live in wonderful Melbourne.
University Expansion
In four States announcements have been
made which seems to be a direct outcome
of the Murray report on Australian uni-
versities. Adelaide University announced
that it was inviting applications for 23
appointments at new salary-scales —£1420
p.a. to £2050 p.a. for lectures and £2IOO
p.a. to £2500 p.a. for senior lecturers.
The University of Melbourne
advertised vacancies for 83 new staff-
members as part of what Vice-Chancellor
Sir George Paton describes as “an epoch-
making phase in the university’s develop-
ment.”
Queensland University announced the
establishment in 1958 of four new chairs
—in applied mathematics, biochemistry,
geography and pediatrics—at an estimated
cost of £70,000, the funds to come from
the special Federal, grant.
The N.S.W. development was an
announcement by Health Minister
Sheahan that the Government intended to
build a pre-clinical medical school at the
N.S.W. University of Technology, to be
opened by 1960.
Mr. Sheahan said that the Medical
School at Sydney University had been
the only medical school in the State for
75 years, and he quoted the report of the
Committee on Australian Universities as
saying that there was “every justification
for the establishment of a second medical
school” and that there was “much to be
said for placing this in the N.S.W. Uni-
versity of Technology.” A committee is
to be formed to advise on the carrying-
out of this plan.
There are two points the committee
might very well consider. One is the
position of the teaching-hospitals which,
as Sir Herbert Schlink has pointed out,
can’t provide enough beds to give the
present number of medical students
adequate training. The other is the very
high wastage-rate of medical students.
Dr. Neville Sutton, Dean of the
Faculty of Medicine at Queensland Uni-
versity, said last week that the failure-
rate among first-year students was up to
66 per cent, and in the second-year even
worse. He concluded that the reason was
that many of the students were not
interested and didn’t work.
Figures for Sydney University medical
school are no better; one authority
places the first-year failure-rate at 70 per
cent. It seems obvious that large numbers
of young people are being steered or
pushed into attempting a medical career
without having the slightest inclination or
aptitude for it. If the proposed new
medical school is not merely going to
perpetuate this state of affairs, the com-
mittee has a duty to explain how they
propose to avoid it.
Renshaw At It Again!
Another fine example of the N.S.W.
Government’s policy of removing the
word “local” from “local-government” is
to be seen in the decision of J. B.
Renshaw, the Minister for Local
Government, to merge the municipality of
Scone, a rich and old-established town
on the Hunter River, with the Upper
Hunter Shire.
Labor policy seems to be to reduce
local-government to an echo of the
Sydney Government, and to ready-up the
whole State for socialisation. Part of the
disturbance at Scone is due to a
determination to regiment the Hunter
district electricity-supply under a county-
council on the usual pleas that such a
move will cut costs, whereas the light of
experience shows that it increases the
burden on the general user.
Having obviously made up his mind
to the merger of the two councils, Mr.
Renshaw appointed the usual civil-service
commissioner to “inquire.”
The excuse given by the commissioner
for his ultimate finding was that, know-
ing that a large number of residents of
Scone were connected with the building
of the Glenbawn Dam, and that that
remarkable Methuselah of a project
would be completed next year, he decided
it “reasonable to assume” that the sudden
boost of population from about 2500 in
1950 to 3500 last year was directly due to
the activities of the Water and Sewerage
Commission—this though population had
been steadily rising for 20 years.
He deduced that “the impending
completion of the dam has involved a
movement of people away from Scone in
recent months.” Se he decided quickly
that the Scone municipality would be
unable in the future to command
resources sufficient to meet its responsi-
bilities, and gave scant consideration to a
suggestion of increased rating. The
decision was made in the face of the fact
that -the council is able to estimate for a
balanced budget for 1957-58.
The commissioner didn’t give much
weight to the factors that both councils
were implacably opposed to the amalga-
mation, that 86 per cent, of the voters at
a referendum in Scone showed them-
selves against it, and that only one
citizen appeared to give evidence at the
inquiry in favor of the change, though
40 turned-up to oppose it —only half got
the chance since, according to the “Scone
Advocate,” the commissioner “closed the
hearing half-way through the evidence.”
The finding seems to matter little in any
case. Mr. Renshaw had made his views
clear long before it was issued. And there
has been the experience of many other
forced amalgamations, not to mention
the curious county-council that has been
constructed round the Blayney abattoir
and forced on the unwilling citizens of
Orange and Bathurst.
• Moreover, he behaved with patronising
loftiness to a deputation which he told
that “the people in the country did not
always know what was best for them,”
and that in three years the Scone people
“would probably thank him.” They’re
not thanking him round Orange—or
Wagga.
"They make these mechanical toys so realistic these days!"


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
SYDNEY’S brand-new jackpot-tote
certainly looks like making the lucky
few a lot richer, but it’s bound to make
the optimistic many of us considerably
poorer. At quoted starting-prices, the
odds against the success of the first four
winners in the first jackpot tote-pool at
Randwick on December 21 were
18,000-1. A lone punter —a woman,
of course —picked the quartet and
won half of the pool of £10,439
for £2 in 55.-units speculated —odds
of 2109-1. Had she fluked the fifth (10-1)
winner, Meadow (as she admittedly did
Lady Bonton), she would have emptied
kitty, which, on her outlay, would have
represented odds of roughly 10,220-1. But,
again on quoted starting-prices, the real
odds against that particular quintet win-
ning were 180,000-1! In these figures lies
the reason why the average bookmaker
(and tote-manager) drives away in a
shining limousine while you and I, if we
live within four miles of the racecourse,
walk home. —“P.0.M.C.”
♦t*
“Alpal”: Just how much we are able to
cram into a given space of time I didn't
realise until it was forcibly brought home
to me by an article on the N.S.W. Public
Library in the “S. M. Herald” of
December 14, where it is brought to our
notice that:
The library, which is normally open 76
years a week, will suspend all its services
to the public during the stocking.
After that, I’m afraid I’d have to do a
bit of stocktaking myself, before I wake
up one morning and find I’ve been dead
fifty years, and the water-restrictions still
on!
❖ ♦> *
“Stives”: Would somebody please tell
the wine-firm that is so handsomely
decorating Sydney butcher-shops with the
notice “The perfect compliment to a
barbecue is burgundy” that I thoroughly
agree with them—but the word they want
is “complement.”
❖ ♦> ❖
“Doynest”: A few days before Christ-
mas I happened to be in a Melbourne
court when a man was remanded for trial
early in the New Year on three charges
of alleged breaking-and-entering. Asked
if he had anything to say, the accused
said: “Please, could I be sentenced im-
mediately on one of the charges?” His
obvious disappointment when the magis-
trate refused this request was explained
by a policeman friend: persons detained
in the remand-section at Pentridge Jail
get no tobacco-ration and do not partici-
pate in the Christmas privileges extended
to the more permanent guests.
❖ ❖ *
“Mac Hoots”: How touching is the
affection of the young for Santa! I
attended a school break-up party in a
park at St. Ives, N.S.W., and when Santa
came striding down the street and all the
children ran hell-for-leather to meet him
I was moved almost to tears. But when
the little brutes had each touched him for
a present and there were no more in the
sack there were only two children out of
the mob who, as he crept forlorn and
unnoticed out of the park again, thought
fit to go pelting after him. And I suppose
they were a couple who had missed-out
in the rush.
❖❖ ❖ .
“Maitri”: Inquired of a clergyman
what he thought of the new Christmas
stamp. I expected him to be pleased with
it because of the nightshirt-clad infant
Samuel apparently saying his prayers to
an improbable-looking star. The Rev.
sniffed. “When they tackle religious sub-
jects,” he said, “why can’t they get some
advice from those who know? Look at
the thing! It’s mauve! That’s the color
the Church reserves for mourning- and
fasting-seasons like Lent, and for
funerals.”
♦;< *>
“Wallboard”: Had occasion to chase-
up some public documents at the Public
Library and under the heading “N.S.W.
Parliament” came across the cross-
reference “See also Bribery and Cor-
ruption.”
*j
“Pip Tok”: Although our judges often
ask for explanations of well-known
colloquial phrases they can display un-
expected realism and human understand-
ing. During a Perth criminal-court trial,
on the hottest day of this summer’s heat-
wave, the Chief Justice told the 12
good men and true that they could take
off their coats. After the summing-up,
when the jurymen were retiring to con-
sider their verdict, he advised them to
take their coats with them. “You never
know who comes into these courts,” he
said.
“Say, let's cross the international date-line together, honey."
BY RETURN
"Australian film-units and studios are export-
ing television-films, which are being screened
in the United States, Britain, Western Germany,
Japan, Italy, Holland, etc.”
Such is our technical precision,
Such is Australian industry,
We’re making films for television
To be exported oversea.
Priorities would bear re-sorting:
Those who rule the atmosphere
Should send back half what they re
importing
Before they bore us with them here.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Arthur R.”: I’m sure W. M. Hughes
wasn’t as deaf as he would have liked
people to believe (B. 6/11/ ’57 and
11/12/’57). Instructed by my chief-of-
staff to accompany another reporter to
interview Billy on a proposed bounty on
sugar, I shouted the questions into his
hand-cupped ear, only to be met with a
shake of the head. “The silly old so-and-
so is so deaf he couldn’t hear a bomb-
explosion,” remarked my mate in his
natural voice. Billy grinned. “There
won’t be any sugar-bounty,” he said
sweetly, “and I’d have you know I’m not
a silly old so-and-so.”
“Ex-R.S.M.”: If Billy Hughes occa-
sionally heard things when he wasn’t
wearing his hearing-aid, it doesn’t mean
that his deafness was only a pose (B.
11/12/’57). Afflicted with the same
partial deafness, I know that all at once,
for no discoverable reason, you hear a
bird-song when your aid is switched-off,
or the blast of a car-horn sounds as loud
as it did when you were young. But sad
experience has taught you that it isn’t a
miraculous cure ; within half-a-minute or
so all sounds fade again to that back-
ground-murmur. But if one of those
intervals of good hearing happens to co-
incide with a remark which you weren’t
supposed to hear, then your family or
your associates say: “You can hear well
enough when you want to!”
“Y. Mee”: Am always wary of the
bloke wearing an ear-trumpet (B.
11/12/’57). Years ago the late Colonel
Springthorpe, a World War I Digger, was
psychiatric consultant at D.P. Clinic in
St. Kilda Road. Having concluded a
seance, the old boy, his hearing-aid laid
aside, was writing-up his notes, when up
piped the Digger: “Doc., lend me a
quid.” On went the writing ; and, after
a short pause, the nips went in again a
little more emphatically, but still without
success. A few moments’ reflection, then
Digger soliloquised, “You heard me, you
lousy old .” The dear old boy
barked back: “What’s that? What’s that?
Say that again and I won’t lend you a
quid.” A few minutes later, with a flag
in his vest-pocket, a contented Digger
poured his month’s supply of chloral
hydrate—or whatever brand of snake-
juice psychopaths bathe in—down the
gutter outside adjoining Vic. Barracks
and ambled off to commune with Chloe
at Y. and J.’s.
❖ ❖ ❖
“W.P.T.”: A lottery-agency in the
Corso, Manly (N.S.W.), has had a sign
out in front wishing people a Merry
Christmas in seven different languages.
< * * *
“Meg”: Sign outside the Kingaroy
(Q.) Hospital reads: “Entrance, One Way
Traffic.”
♦♦♦ ♦>
Lives of film-stars oft remind me
/ could try their pranks sublime,
But a policeman close behind me
Brings me back to earth in time!
N.Z. o. W. W.
“Jackpot totes aren't very adventurous. I want to take my
money off a MAN!”
“C.H.R.”: Among the relics I inherited
in the claims-section of an assurance com-
pany was a disputed transfer. The two
claimants were now deadly enemies. I
got them both in, and said, “This claim
has hung on six years. If you two'can’t
agree I’ll send it in next week as
Unclaimed Moneys. Now, do you want
the Government to have it?” It was over
£2OO. They agreed on half each, but the
enmity continued, though both parties,
one each sex, swore by me and at me.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Macquarie”: Sydney Council em-
ployees arrived in a truck, erected a long
extension-ladder, and proceeded to replace
the cords and pulleys on the flagpoles
at each end of the Cenotaph in Martin
Place. Being required to steady the
ladder against the whip of the slender
pole, the driver parked his truck out of
the way behind the Cenotaph. The job
done, the gear was loaded back on the
truck and the drivef headed for the next
job. At the intersection the traffic-cop
had something to say: What was the big
idea of parking in the middle of the road
and for all that time? The driver
explained. It was of little avail. The
Law was not in its most reasonable mood.
“For two pins,” declared its representa-
tive, “I’d have had you towed away.”
Pity the lack of two such homely objects
deprived poor mirthless Sydney of a real
belly-laugh—a council-owned, council-
driven truck being towed away by a
council-owned, council-driven tow-truck
would have been really worth seeing. ,
❖ *J* »J>
“Swanee”: There ought to be a law to
protect poor dumb animals against the
menace of the .Ice Age. Our dog Nipper
went with my daughter-in-law to secure
a block of ice for the old oak-chest in
which we chill our Christmas cheer. As
she put the coin in the slot of the
mechanical vendor Nipper jumped on the
delivery platform to have a sniff around.
The ice came down the shute, Boong!
and Nipper went up in the air like
Muttnik. His agonised yelp plainly pro-
tested against the awful avalanche. Will
the R.S.P.C.A. please note.
* *j« <j«
“Penulis”: It isn’t necessary, as
“Dolphin” did (B. 6/11/’57), to
go to . a Singapore honkytonk
to wonder at the cosmopolitan-
ism of Malaya—although the Happy
World is very much more than a honky-
tonk, or a Luna Park, My elder son
spent his first few years in the jungle of
Malaya, and although he is a young


Australian he learned to speak no English
at all. My wife and I spoke Malay in the
house most of the time, and he followed
suit except for a few extraordinarily foul
Chinese swear-words he picked up from
laborers on a nearby tinmine. He now
goes to school in Kuala Lumpur, where
he is taught English by a Belgian teacher
while he sits at the same table with a
Chinese, an Indian, and a young hopeful
from the Isle of Man. The taxi-driver
who takes him to school each morning is
a Banjarese and the gardener at the
" I suppose I SHOULD wish you a happy New Year.”
school, who hasn’t learned in 20 years, to
keep his sharp tools where the children
won’t get them, is a Ceylonese. The usual
traffic-policeman at the gates when the
hordes emerge from school is an
enormous, bearded Sikh, and the small
shop at the school is kept by a Gurkha
who has become a Moslem. Every one
of these persons is bilingual, speaking his
own language and either Malay or English
as well —sometimes both.
♦> ❖ *
“Emel”: “Nitor” (B. 11/12/’57) by no
means exhausts the possibilities of “get”
and “got.” Said an old friend, speaking
of her musical sons, “If they hear a new
piece they haven’t got, and like it, well
it gets gotl ”
* * *
“S.”: Seeing that a Sydney vet. has
charged me eight-guineas for treating a
cat for tickbite (sik-guineas injection, two-
guineas “hospitalisation”), what I want
to know is can cats join the Hospital
Fund?
* ❖ *
“8.A.K.”: Samuel Pepys’. “mayds”
may have made the mince-pies on
Christmas Eve (B. 18/12/’57), but I’ll
warrant that the mince itself was made
and bottled months before. Mince that
had not been so matured would merely
taste like a chaos of fruit and nuts and
could be compared with whisky laid
down in 1957. And I can’t share
“Sandra’s” confidence that the toolchest
would be an infallibly hubbyproof
hiding-place for the succulent fare. It
wouldn’t around our joint, anyway, for
if there is one thing I can bet my
Christmas socks on every year it is that
long before the Sallies have marched
back to lunch a queue of nephews and
nieces will be lined up with a single
request in a variety of forms: “Unc.,
could you fix this wheel/ doll’s arm /-
spring-gun /brake?” etc. No ; a really
safe hiding-place would be the deckchair
on which I always plan to spend a relaxed
morning.
❖ * *
“Bo” : “Satisfied” in daily-press report-
ing (B 25/12/’57) also has an odd ring
to it when someone is bowled over by a
truck and taken to hospital with a frac-
tured leg, severe lacerations to the face,
extensive bruises and shock, and the docs,
will disclose to the Fourth Estate that his
condition is “satisfactory.” To the
medical eye, perhaps ; but it is a word that
the patient would scarcely select.
* * *
“Bicky”: While Marble Bar (W.A.) is
recognised as Australia’s hottest place
because of its consistent high tempera-
tures, the highest recorded reading of 127
degrees was made at Cloncurry (Q.) some
years ago. The greatest roasting I’ve ever
taken was on a distant Christmas Day at
Waaia, near Nathalia (Vic.), when the
mercury reached 120 degrees—with dust-
storms and willy-willies thrown in for
good measure.
❖ »>
“Tasma Jiin.”: Launceston’s (Tas.) new
Mayoress struck a new note in starting
off her term-of-office. Instead of making
a speech when opening a function, Mrs.
McGowen sang several songs. She is well
known in Tasmanian musical circles.
“W.P.T.”: Shortie nighties advertised
Revealing-white, Tempting-pink, Desire-
blue and Devil-black show that color is
in the eye of the beholder.
*> ♦> ♦>
“Warick”: Have always been struck by
that soothing caption The Bulletin uses
to record the passing of a V.1.P.: “Into
the Silence.” In ancient days it used to
be “he slept with his fathers” or “gone
to his ancestors.” Grandmother referred
to such an occurrence as having
“expired.” “Gave up the ghost” gives
one the same impression. “Departed,”
“called up higher,” “passed away,”
“passed on,” “at rest,” “called it a day,”
“he's had it,” “had his chips,” “chucked it
in,” “thrown a seven,” “croaked,”
“thrown in his marble,” “turned up his
toes,” “feeding the daisies,” “finished up,”
“conked out,” “done it in,” “kicked the
bucket,” “passed in his cheque,” “gone
up in smoke,” “wearing his wooden suit”
—they all come to the same thing. So
here’s wishing you a happy New Year.
NO OVERLOADING
“Replying to suggestions that Sydney drinkers
would favor regulations similar to those intro-
duced in Tasmania and Queensland, which
provide that all beer-glasses must carry a
plimsoll-mark under which the froth cannot
extend, secretary R. Hadfield of the U.L.V.A.
in N.S.W. said his executive was satisfied with
the present type of glass.”
We have a fine artistic sense.
Us bungs; and plimsoll-lines for froth
Aesthetically must give offence
To beer-pump handlers all —my oath !
Mind you, it’s not that we’re agin
The soaker-up of foaming stingo ;
We love him, and —more so —his tin,
And like to help him fill his skin.
But Froth ! That’s sacred in OUR lingo !
Oh Froth (of which there’s never lack),
Your aura’s one that’s quite sublime!
Upon your tenuous, yielding back
Financial heights with ease we climb.
With strong emotion we would view
(And put in protests pretty strong)
Any attempt to fetter you.
Remember, there’s our slogan, too:
“The customer is always wrong!”
Some like to view a shapely dame,
A perfect sunset, sylvan glade;
The sight we licensees acclaim
Puts all the others in the shade :
A glass with beer which would appear-
From stunted growth to be afflicted ;
Atop this modicum of cheer
A mount of foam which keeps the beer
Crushed down and beautifully
constricted.
As barons of the nut-brown brew,
Serangs and safraps of the suds,
We’d like to make this clear to you:
If someone has to come some thuds
We make sure that it’s never us.
And when we bash each other’s lugs
And frothy subjects we discuss,
We fill our unmarked schooners — thus —-
And in a manner humorous
We drink a toast to all the mugs.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


TOJO
By W. HART-SMITH
THE difference is that Tojo has
become a member of human
society. As long as he abides by
its laws he is tolerated and safe.
By some he is loved.
Tojo is a galah. He walks like a little
old man in a pink waistcoat with his hands
clasped behind his back under his coat-
tails.
One of his wings has been clipped, not
very expertly. He looks a bit lopsided.
Because of this he gave up trying to fly
long ago. So he walks everywhere, or
climbs. If he is in a hurry he forgets
about his clipped wing and tries to take-
off, but he turns over in the air and falls
on his back.
Tojo definitely swears. Using English
words beginning with B, several of which
he says expertly, is not swearing. Real
bird-swearing is a reversion to bird-
language, a squawk followed by a chesty
muttering and chattering, more for his
own benefit than ours. He swears, he
talks to himself, when he walks, and he
does a lot of walking. He has friends
whom he visits. How he knows his own
tent from all the others is a mystery.
Tojo is the last tame galah in camp.
All the others have been given away or
lost, or set free.' He was taken from a
nest, still clothed in spiky pin-feathers, in
a tree in New South Wales and has since
travelled by truck and train right across
a continent to one of the thirstiest parts
of W.A.
As a fledgling he was unable to feed
himself. He said he was hungry by
opening his featherless, stumpy wings,
jerking his head up and down, and
squawking. His owner, filling his own
mouth with porridge, would hold the bird
tightly clasped in both hands and thrust
his beak inside his porridge-filled mouth.
Tojo after several convulsive thrusts with
his neck would emerge from the cave
with his chest bulging, a stupid look in
his eyes.
Gradually the pin-feather parcels came
unwrapped and he became an adult bird
with a thick warm undergarment of pink
wool, an overcoat of grey with dress tails,
and a pale sensitive crest on top of his
head, feathers with their own sensitive
nerves and muscles specially put there
to register all kinds of emotion. Sensa-
tion there is so exquisite that a few deep
scratches with a fingertip are one of the
joys of his being.
He roosts on a piece of rope stretched
between the tent-poles inside a tent shared
by his owner and three other men. Tojo
is supposed to remain all night over the
blankets and sleeping form of his master,
who slumbers nearest the entrance. But,
in the darkness,- because the rope sags
in the middle, he migrates sideways in
his sleep and finishes up somewhere in
the middle. There are angry words. “If
that shining bird shoots on my blankets
again I’ll wring his crimson neck!”
Tojo sleeps in. His head is usually still
hidden beneath a wing when, before the
sun is up, his owner stumbles out half-
dressed to answer roll-call at six. Tojo
takes his time getting dressed. His vest
and coat are stained with oil. He is far
from immaculate. One reason is that his
owner is a mechanic who takes tank
engines to bits and puts them together
again.
Our cookhouse is on the highest point
of ground in the whole camp area. It
looks like a Kaffir kraal. Huts and walls
are made of poles nailed together and
thatched roof and sides with dwarf she-
oak scrub. A palisade similarly con-
structed surrounds the place.
Tojo walks up hill to breakfast every
morning, going for a handout of un-
cooked porridge and anything else that
may be on the menu. He doesn’t like to
go when breakfast is on. Too many blind
boots about. Too much noise and
scramble. Best time is when the last man
has scraped his mess-tins into the slop-
bucket and left to go on parade.
"Could I change this present for something more in harmony
with my personality?”
Tojo is late this morning. Parade-
markers are out, and the men have fallen
in behind them in four long rows two
deep. The parade is a hazard of men
between Tojo’s sleeping-quarters and
breakfast.
Up one of the rows comes Tojo, walk-
ing as fast as the stony ground will
permit. He trips, falls on his chest and
swears. The feet of the men are shining
brown rocks, their legs are khaki
columns towering on either side of a
ceremonial-way, but he doesn’t appreci-
ate the honor. Parade is, a serious busi-
ness. Although the men are standing
at ease waiting for the call to attention
they keep their amusement and chuckles
suppressed. In most cases. There are a
few whispered words of encouragement.
“No talking on parade!” Discipline in
the unit is good. Parade is a serious
business.'“Blank the parade!” says Tojo.
“Why didn’t some mug wake me sooner ?”
At the end of the long lane between the
columns is open sky once more, and the
cookhouse only some twenty-yards away.
But between the rows of men and the holy
citadel on the skyline another man is
standing facing the troops, Tojo doesn’t
see him until he is two highly-polished
boot-toes a couple of inches from his
beak, topped by beautifully-creased
trousers, huge, neatly ironed pockets, a
row of polished buttons, some limpet-
shaped “pips,” a young, stern face with a
clipped patch of black scrub perched on
his upper lip. He carries a swishy little
cane.
Tojo stops at the toes of the shining
boots and, head tilted sideways, looks
up. The bit of scrub on the upper lip
trembles and twitches, but the eyes look
down for only a second. Every man on
parade has a tight feeling in his webbing,
a pain between his pouches. There will
be an eruption, an explosion, any
minute.
The explosion comes. It is a sharp,
crisp, loud, compelling “Com . . . pan
. . . eee ... Ah ... ten .. . SHUN! ! !”
And four-hundred pairs of heels come
together with a crash. Up in the'air goes
To jo, turns over twice, wings thrashing
wildly, and falls on his back in front of
the shining boots.
The nippy little cane is hurled to the
ground. The mouth that twitched and
twitched opens wide and lets out a bellow
of laughter that is drowned by the
glorious laughter of four-hundred sud-
denly undisciplined men. And Tojo,
swearing crazily, walks, runs and half
flaps towards the palisades on the skyline,
and breakfast.


POLITICAL POINTS
The Queen, in her Christmas broad-
cast, spoke of her people’s need for a
special kind of courage—“a kind which
makes us stand up for everything that
we know is right, everything that is true
and honest. We need the kind of courage
that can withstand the subtle corruption
of the cynics so that we can show the
world that we’re not afraid of the
future.”
What we want, in fact, is the kind
of courage and commonsense that
make democratic existence possible
in the face of all the distractions
that assail us from countries which are
not democracies and from the organised
minorities within our own democracy
that aim at its overthrowing. Collectively
we have never given our own democracy
a real chance to work, and we are
inclined to forget the lessons of the past
and to be mentally overwhelmed by the
portlents of the future. Sputniks,
H-bombs and all —“a man’s a man for
a’ that.” And the British people have
a wealth of wisdom in their traditions,
their literature and their sciences to help
them on occasions like the present.
• •
The outlook for 1958 is of the kind
that brings to mind one of Churchill’s
exhortations during the stickier days of
World War II —“Let us then to the
task.” Australia will have its tasks in
1958.
The Communist party’s official Pioneer
Bookshop in Sydney advertises its list of
“books for Christmas,” headed by a
dismal and expensive Soviet novel which
is followed by The Decameron of
Boccaccio —price 445. 6d. —and The
Works of Rabelais, also 445. 6d. It is to
be hoped that no propertyless Central
Committee "commissar investing his piti-
ful baubles in the lastnamed tome feels
embarrassed as in Chapter XVII of Book
2 he comes upon the words, “How "well
I have feathered my nest.”
• •
A delightful photograph has been
received in Australia of J. D. Kenny,
M.L.C., vice-chairman of the Aus-
tralian Council of Trade Unions, who at
one time said firmly and indignantly that
he would not go to Red China for any-
body. But he is pictured being welcomed
to Red China by Comrade Chu Hsueh
Fan, “vice-president of the All-China
Federation of Trade-unions.” Mr. Kenny
is shown bursting with joyous laughter
and carrying a huge bouquet, which seems
to consist —perhaps the shortcomings of
All-China photography are responsible—
of carrot-tops and chow-mein.
• •
Tommy White’s estate has been valued
at £45,247 gross, including £26,729
invested in shares in 42 Australian
companies. His home was the principal
item in his real property, which had a
total value of £5825. His estate is to be
divided into five equal parts among his
widow (Lady White, who was Alfred
Deakin's daughter) and his four daughters.
• •
Public- relations is wondrous these
days. Melbourne has endured the un-
pleasant smell of Footscray’s approaches
from old-established firms since nigh on
"I've wanted to punch his nose ever since he got into Parliament!"
Federation, but Standard - Vacuum
Refining Co., the comparative new-
comer to Altona with its £2O-million
refinery, is now beginning erection of a
new plant (converting hydrogen-sulphide
into elementary sulphur) to eliminate a
smell that hangs round local houses at
times and annoys housewives. It will
cost £500,000.
• •
Stanhill Holdings, Ltd., the American-
backed real-estate speculators, have
announced the building of a satellite-town
of 10,000 houses on Bulla Road, Tulla-
marine, five miles from Melbourne’s air-
port, Essendon, and 14 miles from the
G.P.O.
Stanhill recently bought more than
1300 acres for £132,000, and took an
option on another 1200 acres, all near
the new industrial development area to
be opened-up by Ford and Caterpillar.
After Stanhill made the purchase, it
was announced the area was in the green-
belt proclaimed under the Greater Mel-
bourne Plan. It will be interesting to
observe how long the belt remains green.
• •
A New Year resolution by the Menzies-
Fadden Government (this new year being
also election-year) should be to do more
in aiding the construction of new landing-
grounds in country districts. Among the
closer-in areas, Orange (N.S.W.) has no
landing-ground (John Howes might foster
that one), but farther out, in N.S.W. and
other States, there is a crying need for
new airfields. Possibly the past two
years would have been more opportune
than the present if financial aid is
necessary from the local inhabitants ; but
politically this would be an appropriate
year to get moving. And construction
of landing-grounds should not merely
follow the T.A.A. routes. Smaller air-
transport cos. have usually pioneered the
country districts.
For the current (1957-58) term the
Federal Government has budgeted for
an expenditure of £6 million on capital
works by the Department of Civil
Aviation. Of this, £l| million is capital
earmarked for Qantas and T.A.A., while
£1.6 million is for technical equipment
and £2.6 million is for “works, sites and
buildings.” Even if the whole of this last
amount was'for airfields it is not large.
• •
E. F. Chamberlain, W.A.’s pure-souled
bayard of the A.L.P., has asked the Com-
missioner for Unfair Trading in W.A.
to inquire into Western Australian News-
papers, Ltd., to see whether it isn’t a
monopoly making an unfair profit.
Maybe what is really needed is not
investigation, but a little competition.
Labor sentiment seems to prevail in W.A.,
so why not an A.L.P. daily serving the
Government’s supporters, with Dr. Evatt
or Dr. Burton as editor? The eastern
States A.L.P. branches would no doubt be
patriotic enough to sacrifice either of
those political expositors to the needs
of the West.


A New Year resolution by some Can-
berra Ministers might be to “Do It
Yourself” from go to whoa in a typical
problem of their departments. Nothing
like keeping your own hand in if you
want to be able to talk-back to your
civil service.
• •
Three weeks’ annual leave is on the
menu at Sydney Trades Hall. State
public servants already get three weeks’
leave, but private enterprise will be up
for £4 million a year if the extra week
is granted to employees in industry. Still,
what is £4 million out of someone else's
pocket if an election is looming and
Wagga lost?
• •
Canadian nuclear scientist Dr. Leon
Katz said in Sydney that it would be
foolish to underestimate or overestimate
Russian efforts in nuclear science, adding,
“The Russians are neither morons nor
supermen.” The situation appears to
have aspects similar to that when the
Japs first struck in the Pacific, and their
Zero fighters and jungle tactics for a
few months had the Allies, bluffed.
• •
From January 1 police will be per-
mitted to produce in court certificates of
doctors and analysts’ reports on alleged
drunken-drivers in Victoria. In the past
police attempting to get a tipsy driver
tested by a doctor have had a sticky'
job because the test meant the doctor
would be summoned to court and,
probably, cross-examined.
Victoria is holding to voluntary blood-
tests, despite official agitation to have
them made compulsory and assertions by
Dr. John Birrell, the State’s rather
enthusiastic police-surgeon, that half the
accidents are due to alcohol.
• •
Just before the outbreak of war in 1939
the Commonwealth and State public
debt totalled £1,215,299,000 (say, £1215
million). At June 30, 1957, it was £3992
million. The increase, on the figures, was
a little more than threefold. But in the
intervening 18 years the value of the
pound had dropped by more than two-
thirds, and nothing is more definite in
this somewhat indefinite economic world
than that the burden of the national
debt is now lighter, if anything, in terms
of real money-value than it was in 1939.
Thus not only has the borrowed cost
of the 1939-45 war been taken out of the
pocket of the bondholder, but the sums
borrowed for State public works and the
like have added no real burden to the
national Budget; inflation has relieved
Governments of the normal physical
weight of increased indebtedness. At
the same time it has robbed those who
lend money to Governments of an
equivalent amount. Yet borrowing has
been transacted at a lower rate of
interest!
In spite of the obvious but meretri-
cious attractions of inflation to public
borrowers, the Federal Government has
taken unpopular steps to check the
depreciation in the value of money, and
THE
NO-HQPERS
CLUB
INDONESIAN COMRADE (1949)
“Welcome to the club, old boy! Long time no see!”
as far as possible has been financing
capital-expenditure out of taxation. In
the circumstances the merit of tax-
finance (not to mention the necessity for
it) is unquestionable.
• •
When the Literary Censorship Board
has revised the Commonwealth list of
banned books the list will be made
public, as will later amendments to it.
There’s no date fixed for the completion
of the job, but Customs Minister Henty
says the board has made substantial
progress.
• •
Chief result of the reconsideration of
the N. S. Wales Assembly redistribution
proposals seems to have been the
strengthening of Labor’s chance of retain-
ing the North Sydney seat, won at the
last election by only 327 votes. The
original proposal would have tacked
portion of Neutral Bay on to North
Sydney; instead, the electorate will
receive a slice of Willoughby. Even so,
the seat will be far from safe for Labor.
On the whole redistribution Labor may
be one or two seats better off. Ashfield
and Croydon, two Liberal seats, have been
merged into one; the same treatment
has been dealt out to Paddington and
Waverley, both now held by Labor. In
the outer suburbs two new seats —
Cronulla and Merrylands—have been
created and on paper they look reasonably
safe for Labor.
But there is a definite limit to what
can be achieved by redrawing of
boundaries in N. S. Wales ; Labor has
already gained most of what there was to
be gained in previous redistributions.
The results of the Bulgarian elections,
held on December 22, don’t seem yet to
have come through, leaving bettors on the
results in the Australian Communist Party
on tenterhooks. The books are said to
favor a 99.937 vote in favor of Khrush-
chev’s policies. In 1953 the vote in favor
of the Government was announced at
99.8 per cent., the remainder of its
support perhaps being down with
influenza or debarred from reaching the
polls by snowstorms and stray bullets.
• •
The Queensland Public Service Com-
missioner’s Report shows that there are
now over 64,000 Crown employees of the
State, drawing-down salaries and wages
of £s9y million, which is £l6| million
more than in 1952-53. It costs as much to
pay the salaries of public-hospital
employees as was collected by the whole
Consolidated Revenue fund for all pur-
poses of government the year World War
I began. And total Queensland taxation
in 1919-20 would not have paid much
more than a third of the salaries of
teachers in Queensland State schools
today.
• •
Melbourne City Council’s electricity-
supply committee has recommended
putting all overhead power-lines under-
ground in order to improve the city’s
appearance. A weakness of the scheme
is that the council would then have no
excuse for chopping-down trees.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Sir Thomas Peel Dunhill, who was
created a Knight Grand Cross of the
Royal Victorian Order in 1949 for his
services to the Royal Family, died in
London on December 22. One of the
most brilliant graduates from Melbourne
University, he established himself as a
surgeon in London, was mentioned three
times in dispatches in War 1, and in War
II was consulting surgeon to the A.I.F.
He had been surgeon to King George V,
sergeant surgeon to George VI, and extra
surgeon to Queen Elizabeth. He was an
honorary at Bart’s. ( -
• •
South Australian Rhodes Scholar for
1958 is John Royle Casley-Smith, 22, a
medical student whose sports are Rugby,
rifle-shooting, tennis and sailing. In
recent years he has been on several
anthropological expeditions to North
Australia. The 1958 Rhodes Scholar
from Tasmania is 21-year-old Dennis
John Rose, a law student.
• •
Robert Mafeking Macfarlane (here-
with), senior Whip in the recent N.Z.
Opposition (now Government), is very
popular in Christchurch, where he is
warmly remembered for his work during
the depression in relieving social distress ;.
perhaps that is why he has had four
terms as Mayor of that city. He served
with the N.Z.E.jF. in War I, is secretary
of the Canterbury University College, the
Tramways Board, the Domain Board, the
MAYOR OF CHRISTCHURCH
Lyttelton Harbor Board, and is chair-
man of the Transport and Licensing
Authority. He became a C.M.G. in 1954.
• •
Wearing the episcopal apron has
become almost a habit in the family of
Melbourne’s new Anglican Archbishop,
the Most Rev. Frank Woods. His father
was Bishop, first* of Peterborough, later
of Winchester, and an uncle was Bishop
of Croydon. He himself comes to Aus-
tralia from Manchester, where he was
Suffragan Bishop of Middleton. A
Trinity College (Cambridge) man, he has
also been vice-principal of Wells Theo-
logical College. Two brothers are
clergymen in England. During War II
the new Archbishop put in six years as
an Army chaplain, was rescued from the
beach at Dunkirk, and saw later service
in the Middle East. His wife—an Oxford
graduate who did post-graduate work in
psychology—and two daughters will live
in Melbourne ; two sons are completing
their schooling in England.
• •
Among the more remarkable of quite
a number of rapid rises in aviation enter-
prises since the war is Lyndon
McKenzie’s. He was 42 when his appoint-
ment as commercial director (one of the
most senior in the service) of T.A.A. was
announced * last week. Lyn McKenzie
joined T.A.A. as a counter clerk in 1946
after five years in the R.A.A.F., chiefly
in" air-crew, but the last few months as
a p.-0.-w. in Java. He is a qualified
accountant, but took over a multiplicity
of jobs for the new enterprise in its early
years, principally in Melbourne and
Sydney ; he also put in a stint as Queens-
land manager.
• * ,
A. L. Tisdall, the new member of
Victoria’s Water Commission, responsible
for the State’s vast network of storages,
irrigation and domestic-supply channels,
has stepped up from chief irrigation
officer of the commission. A Master of
Agricultural Science, he is a former
C.5.1.R.0. officer and saw service with
the R.A.A.F. in War 11. He had been
C. 1.0. of the commission since 1951,
when he visited the U.S.A. to get the
latest on irrigation and drainage.
• •
“J.”: One of the most popular forms of
escapism is to imagine oneself doing
something else for a living—driving a
train, flying a plane, digging for gold,
captaining industry; when engaged in
these Mitty-like speculations, this writer
has often been attracted by the thought
of skippering a Manly ferry—sailing
serenely across Sydney Harbor, day after
day, in, of course, uniformly cloudless
weather. There is, it seems, rather more
to it than that, as Captain Dawn, boss of
the South Steyne, explained when he was
MANLY FERRIES
sketched for The Bulletin on his own
bridge. For one thing—because South
Steyne goes out to sea at weekends —all
hands must have had deep-sea experience ;
Dawn, who was born by the Parramatta
River in 1902, held a deep-sea ticket early
in his career; he’s been with Manly
ferries for 20 years.
• •
“Uramao”: New Director-General of
Agriculture in New Zealand, succeeding
E. J. Fawcett (retired after 35 years’
service), is R. B. Tennant, who has been
deputy D.-G. since April last. At time
of his appointment to the new job he was
on a trade delegation in the UK.
• •
Twenty - six - year - old James ' A.
Carpenter is the winner of an Australian
Services Canteens Trust Fund scholarship
for 1958. One of the most valuable
academic awards in Australia, it is made
annually to dependants of ex-servicemen,
and entitles the holder to three years’
study overseas on a yearly allowance of
£BOO. Carpenter graduated in Agricul-
tural Science from the Westralian Uni-
versity several years ago, took his M.Sc.
Agric., is now completing research-
work for his Ph.D., and will leave for
England next August to do post-graduate
research in the breeding of grasses at the
Grasslands Research Station, London.
His late father served with the R.A.A.F.
in War 11.
• •
“B.”: When two Australian sergeants
of the Royal Fusiliers charged a Red
Army blockhouse in the North Russian
forest near Emptsa in 1919 both received
military honors—and dum-dum bullets.
One, Sam Pearce, was killed outright;
the other, Charles Godfrey Hill, lost his
right leg in what proved to be a savage
and bloody little hand-to-hand battle
even to veterans of the Western Front.
Pearce was posthumously awarded the
V.C., Hill won the Order of St. George.
Hill, a Sydney accountant, collapsed and
died during the city’s recent heat-wave.


He abandoned a promising athletic
future at his school, Sydney Grammar
(he was a contemporary of “Slip” Carr),
when he left to enlist in the 55th Battalion,
A.I.F. Discharged from the A.I.F. in
London, he enlisted in the Russian Relief
Force. On his return to civilian life,
“Chiller” Hill became active on the
administrative side of sport, and at his
death was president of the R.S.L. Club,
Rose Bay, president of the Rose Bay
R.S.L. Rifle Club, a committeeman of the
Limbless Soldiers’ Association, and chair-
man of the A.I.F. Swimming Day Com-
mittee. His name was frequently among
the winners at the Limbless Soldiers’
Swimming Club.
• •
“C.R.”: Another page of Westralian
history has closed with the death in Perth
at 91 of Sir Ernest Lee Steere, member of
a pioneer Westralian family, and well
known for many years as a pastpralist,
businessman, philanthropist and racehorse
owner. Born at Beverley (W.A.) in 1866,
he rode with packhorse to the Murchison
in 1880, helped to open-up pastoral
country there, and bought his first station,
Belele, near Meekatharra, in 1888. With
his son, also Ernest, he developed stud
Merino properties in the Northampton
district. Apart from sheepbreeding, he
had long associations with some of Wes-
tralia’s major business concerns, and was
largely responsible for the establishment
of woollen mills at Albany and freezing-
works at Fremantle. He was a nephew of
Sir James Lee Steere, who was Speaker of
the Westralian Legislative Assembly from
1890 to 1903 ; his widow is a daughter of
the late C. Y. O’Conner, the engineer who
was responsible for the construction of
the Goldfields’ water-scheme and the
Fremantle harbor-works. Two of Sir
Ernest’s sons were killed in War 11.
One of his many benefactions was the
donation, in 1946, of a farming property
in the Mingenew district, to be sub-
divided for the settlement of ex-Service-
men. For many years president of the
W.A. Pastoralists’ Association and chair-
man of the W.A. Turf Club, he bred and
raced horses which won many classic
events in Westralia, as well as in the
eastern States. Perhaps the best known
of his horses were the two Caulfield Cup
winners—Eurythmic, in 1920, and Maple,
in 1928—and Second Wind, second to
Phar Lap in the 1930 Melbourne Cup.
• •
It’s a fine season in Melbourne for
dahlias, and that suits John Raymond
Wilson, who retired at Christmas, after
44 years with the Education Department,
to look after his dahlias and lesser blooms.
A string of Melbourne headmasters
retired this year, but Wilson was at least
among the more notable. In 1915, a
Bachelor of Arts who had hitherto looked
rather patronisingly on maths, he found
his students knew more about the sub-
ject than he did when he was sent as head-
master of Warrnambool Junior Technical
School. Considerably chastened, he
became a maths-student again to such
purpose that his first textbook was pub-
lished in 1930 and others have been
coming out ever since. His last head-
mastership spread over nine years at Box
Hill Tech.
Here is Dubois’s
interpretation of Dr.
Raoul Cardamatis,
who, The Bulletin’s
Sundry Showman re-
marked in print last
week (apropos
Cardamatis’s pro-
duction of “The
Lark” at the Inde-
pendent Theatre,
North Sydney)
“might be called the
old master of the
difficult.” Old? It’s
a bit difficult to
guess Dr. Carda-
matis’s age, so, re-
membering what one
had been taught—
“always check”
this interviewer
asked him. “Age?”
boomed the voice
of the telephone.
“Age”—one . began
to fear that the
question had
offended him; but
no; the minor ex-
plosion at the other
end of the line
seemed to signify
amusement “Age-
less”; and so he is.
He is also a rich
and dynamic per-
sonality, a man of
deep and broad cul-
ture, and he has
done a great deal for
the theatre in Aus-
tralia. Within the
last 25 years he has
produced 73 shows
in Sydney, in an
honorary capacity,
and most of them
have cost him money. He holds
strong views on the theatre, and expresses
them vividly. He does not believe in
“stars”; the star system, he says, was
fostered by Hollywood for commercial
reasons, and has been a “catastrophe for
the theatre.” He repeated the word —•
“catastrophe.”
He believes a producer should have a
good knowledge of history, and also of
geometry —“the mathematics of space.”
And he thinks the theatre should not
only entertain, but convey a message.
“Theatre,” he points out, derives from
“theos,” and the theatre is, or should be,
a temple. A physician by profession,
Greek-born, and educated in various
centres of learning in Europe, Dr.
Cardamatis leaves no doubt about his
special fondness for Australia.
• •
A practical farmer with much experi-
ence of farmers’ organisations, Kenneth
McDougall now represents Western Aus-
tralia on the Australian Wheat Board;
he succeeds the late George Simpson, who
had been W.A. growers’ representative
on the board since 1950. McDougall,
who came to Westralia from South Aus-
tralia in 1935, farms with his two brothers
at Tinkurrin. One of the four growers’
THEATRE
representatives on the State Wheat Board
for the past two years, and a delegate to
conferences of the Australian Wheat
Growers’ Federation for six years, he has
also been a senior vice-president of the
Farmers’ Union Wheat Section for seven
years, a member of the executive of the
Farmers’. Union for 11 years, and a
trustee of the Soil Fertility Research
Fund since it was formed three years ago.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 71, former Randwick trainer
Mick Poison. ' Among other champions, he
trained Winooka, winner of the 1933 A.J.C.
Doncaster with 9.13.
In Melbourne, R. A. Guyot, manager of
the Australian athletics team at the 1956
Olympic Games. He had been a prominent
member of the V.A.A.A. for more than 20
years.
In Adelaide, at 65, W. F. J. McCann, S.A.
Prices Commissioner for 15 years to 1954. In
World War I he won the D. 5.0., and M.C. and
bar. He was State R.S.L. president from 1925
to 1931; in 1935 he received 0.8. E. for out-
standing public service.
In Suya, at 66, L. A. Lawlor, one of Fiji’s
leading businessmen. He was born in Mel-
bourne, and had lived in Fiji since 1906.
At Witham (Essex), Dorothy Sayers, novelist,
playwright and writer of detective-stories. She
was the creator of the fictional detective Lord
Peter Wimsey.


ABORIGINALITIES
OPENING beer-bottles on their navels
is long out of date among Diggers.
The 2nd A.I.F. method was to blow the
tops off with Owen-gun fire. This was
good marksmanship-practice, and when
the Digger became adept he could then
singe his whiskers off by the same method
and so defy the chronic shortage of razor-
blades.—“P.C.M.”
* * * *
“Harry L.”: Went out to a station to
take delivery of a small mob of sheep,
and took Choom as horse-tailer. After
lunch on the first day out all the horses
were in sight of the camp, so I sent him
to bring them in. “Don’t drive them in
their hobbles,” I told him; “put the
hobbles on one leg.” And he did just
that. The old carthorse limped up to the
camp with eight pairs of hobbles on his
near-front leg!
"I think it's safe to come out now .”
“Kelms”: I’ve used every type of fire-
fighting equipment from boughs to
pumps and the latest foam-extinguishers,
and I’ve still to find anything better than
water or any implement handier, or more
economical of ammunition, than a knap-
sack-spray. A few men with knapsacks
will handle a quite big fire with very little
water, and knapsack-sprays are also
wonderful for burning firebreaks. True,
they won’t stop a big forest-fire, but, short
of a deluge, what will? And when it
comes to fighting a fire without water, in
any but completely stony country, I’ll take
a shovel. Sand or loose soil is next to
water for smothering a fire, and a well-
directed shovelful will put out several
feet of blaze in grass or scrub. You can
even direct sand at blazing posts or low
boughs, and three or four handy men
working as a team can move along a face
at almost walking-pace. Naturally there’s
a limit to the sort of fire you can handle
this way ; but wherever an attack with
a beater can be attempted you'll do twice
the job with a shovel.
* * * *
“Ybsul”: I believe that shaving makes
man’s life harsher than woman’s. Once
started, it’s a morning hazard that a
man’s stuck with for ever. So my current
lathering instrument seems worthy of
note. Bought the brush four years ago
in Madang for 3s. 6d. at a Chinese
store, and it’s made shaving almost a
pleasure. Its hairs are of silky-soft
coconut-fibre and in four years of
grubbing the beard it hasn’t lost a thread.
Anyone do any better?
* * * *
“Eldaob”:' Can anyone tell me if cats
will mate with possums? We are owned
by a cat with grey possum fur merging
into a black streak along the back, short
tapering front legs with longish toes, and
a decided taste for stale scones, dry bread
and cooked vegetables. His appearances
are almost entirely nocturnal, his walk
is the heavy flat-footed “thud-thud” of a
possum, and in moments of acute bliss
his purr reaches a shrill falsetto,
* # m
. “Nossie” (N.Z.): Caught the kiwi in
the open as it ran out under the smoke
from burning scrub, and I put it under a
15in.-by-12in. box on level ground. In
the morning the kiwi had gone. There was
one hole in the ground where its 6in. beak
had pierced at an angle towards the outer
air, beneath the edge of the box. The
beak was evidently used as a lever to tilt
the box to allow the slide-out of the long
neck and plump body, the box returning
to its original position. The kiwi lives
on worms and grubs; and the leverage
method may have been developed from
overturning fragments of rotten wood.
Or does he think things out?
* * * *
“Alma”: One bush-hat I know is an
unfailing guide to temper and events. Its
owner, a sheepman, usually has trotting
behind him a couple of dogs he is
breaking-in, and he has long had the
habit of pelting the lid at a recalcitrant
pooch. Thus, when out mustering, you
always know by the look of the lid
whether to canter up and exchange a
few jocular words or ride soberly out
on the other wing and wait till the
learner has redeemed himself a bit.
* * * *
“Spin”: An old-timer on the goldfields
once told me his idea of wiping-off Aus-
tralia's national debt —import a few
hundred-thousand kanakas, station them
with shovels along the south coast of
W.A., and set them working north to the
Eighty Mile Beach, turning the State
over to a depth of three or four feet. He
reckoned the gold they found would
show a handsome profit on the deal;
and on the amount of near-surface gold
turned-up in W.A. I felt inclined to agree
with him. That was 30 years ago. Now
the Kalgoorlie Municipal Council is
carrying out a sewerage scheme, and a
mobile ditch-digger is ripping out a big
trench at Lamington, one of the desert-
city’s suburbs. I’m wondering what that
old-timer would have given for a machine
like that.
♦ * * *
m
“Warick”: The six-months-old quarrel
had been patched-up, and as a peace-
offering, Mabel had invited Anne to
lunch. It wasn’t until Anne went for her
hat prior to leaving that she found the
cady overflowing with a litter of half-
hour-old kittens. The feud’s in full blast
again.
* * # *
“Ceg”: Whenever I see cars with
kewpie-dolls and miniature skeletons
dangling in the rear window I’m reminded
of the shire-councillor who, when I was
a kid, used to drive his gig around our
little Victorian township. On rainy days
it was his habit to suspend from the hood
his upper and lower sets of crockery (in
those days they were connected by
springs). In the interests of hygiene this
washing of his synthetic tats was quite
.a sacrifice, for while the rain lasted he
couldn’t pursue his favorite hobby—-
chewing tobacco!
* * * *
“Xavier”: As in the building-industry,
the oil-game is shot through with weird




trade-terms. Who would identify an oil-
tanker driver as a “gear-jammer” or
“junk-hustler,” a geologist as a “rock-
hound” or his assistant as “pebble-pup”?
An oilman who “goes down the creek with
the oil” gets the sack, but a “ball-hitter”
is the right man on the job. The oil-
engineer with a “cry-baby” or “mocking-
bird” doesn’t think of infants or wild-
life but of a squeak in his motor. And
the shout of “Fire in the hole!” is both
a warning that an explosive is being fired
in the bottom of a borehole and a tip
that the boss is on his rounds. Many
terms, such as “rig,” “crow’s nest,”
“masthead,” “mast,” “catwalks,” “reels,”
“hatches,” “log,” “lines” originated with
sailors, who were the first oil-drillers.
* * * *
“Dartagan”: Donald Dinnie (B.
27/11 / ’5.7) was certainly an imported
£3OOO ram ; but the owner was John
Davies, of Munduri, near Jamestown
(S.A.). Donald was his owner’s pride and
joy, and had a special brickwalled yard
near the homestead. Special visitors
would be shown the ram, and Davies
always went in to lead him round. As he
was climbing over the wall on one
occasion Donald charged. Davies
dropped back in and took the blow on
his buttocks. My Dad asked why and
was told, “If he had hit that wall he
would have broke his b —— neck.”
* * * *
“Dicky”: Concerning the naming of
rams (B. 27/11/’s7)> the happiest choice
I know was that of a Riverina stud for
one of its champions, Jason’s Quest,
said to have been named by one of the
jackeroos on the property.
* * * * _.
“Ceg”: If shearers are prodigal with
combs and cutters (B. 27 /11/ ’57) they
are on a par with dentists, or their
mechanics, who are similarly lavish in
their purchases of artificial teeth from
the importing houses. The head of one
such concern told me that his firm alone
imports enough tats to supply every man,
woman and child in Australia with a
complete upper and lower every year.
There are several firms engaged in the
trade, so what happens to all those teeth?
* * * *
“Flight”: Why is it that in the last
extremes of distress many animals and
birds go to a foreign element for the last-
ditch stand? Young ducks, some
wounded older ones, divers and some
other water-birds sneak out of the water
and hide in tracks of animals in the
mud on the banks. Young wood-ducks
are easily hunted from the water. They
take off across the flat on legs which move
so fast they are only a blur. A wounded
brolga, or a youngster which can’t use its
wings properly, will wade out in a water-
hole, turn and face its pursuer. Emus
in distress will seek safety in hip-deep
water. We all know kangaroos make a
final stand there, if there isn’t a big
rock or stump against which to back.
I’ve even known a pelican to waddle out
of the water with all its solemn
grotesqueness, half-spread its wings as
it stood on land, open and snap its beak
in a threatening manner and face its foe
under conditions which must surely have
been foreign.
* * * *
“Nimrod”: Tell “Dryblower” (B.
20/11 / ’57) that there were rabbits in the
goldfields of W.A. long before 1912.
The “Southern Cross Miner” for 16/3/’Ol
reported: “I notice that our Jack has
got the tail and back legs of the first
rabbit shot on the fields exhibited in his
window.” Seven months later the paper
told its readers that the warden had
shown it a litter of five well-developed
young rabbits which had been brought
into the ’Cross from Ghooli, eight miles
out. The news also provided material
for a half-column sub-leader. By 1912
the rabbit was well on its way towards the
extreme south-west of the State, where it
was welcomed as an addition to the diet.
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: The newly-appointed
Australian manager of the Borneo saw-
mill was irked by a four-bench mill
cutting only 10,000 super, a day, even if
it was mostly lin. boards. The crew
knew their job, he had a conscientious
Dutch foreman and the engine was a good
old 120-h.p. Davey-Paxman with the
condenser chopped off. Two substantial
return-flue boilers currently certificated
at 120 pressure should have been
adequate. It became increasingly evident
that the engine was just not delivering,
so he laid it down hard that any time
during working - hours the boiler-
pressure fell below 110 he would take it
as a personal insult. At this point the
Dutchman spoke-up. Said he, tense with
emotion: “Ten years have I had charge of
this sawmill, and well I know that on the
engine high-pressure cylinder is stamped
the permitted pressure of one hundred
and fifty pounds, and so the two boilers
must be restrained each to seventy-five
pounds or disaster can occur.”
“Bass”: Where did the bob-tailed
lizard get his name as a snake-killer? He
can’t hurry and he can’t move fast in any
way, and none of his champions has
been able to suggest how he’d get a
killing grip on one of the fastest-moving
creatures in the bush. He may enjoy a
certain immunity from snakebite, because
his scales might turn the fangs or dis-
perse the poison, but there’s no record
of a lizard actually killing a ln
fact, bob-tails have often been Knind
inside snakes.
* * * *
“Nimrod”: Springer had been com-
plaining about the big eagle that was tak-
ing his lambs in the back paddocks, so
the new tractor-driver, scenting a reward,
went after it. He spent about a quid on
ammo before he finally dropped it. As
he held out its seven-foot wing-span for
inspection the old bloke was really
pleased. “You know what?” he said.
“Next time I go into town I’ll take that
in for you. You’ll get five-bob from the
Road Board for^that!”
\ * * * *
“W.P.T.”: The most unusual site for
a bees’-nest I’ve seen was in an old tomb-
stone in Sydney’s Bunnerong cemetery.
And for years a swarm nested in Sir John
Robertson’s statue in the Sydney Botanic
Gardens, using the left ear as an entrance.
Other odd spots selected for sites have
been rabbit-burrows, an old buggy, and
in a rock-crack only a few feet above
high-water mark on a seaside cliff.
THE INCOMPLETE MIGRANT
(Lanes to a temporary Australian about to
return to his native shore.)
No, you would never make a good
Australian :
A swathe of ancient cities and old school
ties
Has insulated you from the primitive
power of the sun.
Your eyes are blind from the glare
Though in the harsh light perceiving, with
surprise,
These odd Australian girls
With their wild bright manes and long
legs like horses,
Brown skins and mocking eyes.
Yet some day in December, in another
country,
When the snow is falling, you will see in
memory
The hills of sunburnt grass,
The wind in the gums, the hard blue of
the sky,
And grasshoppers moving in a pale brown
mass,
And the feeling of space that shrinks the
human ego
{Even yours !) and swamps ideas as they
emerge . . .
You will remember then
How so much you had meant to say
remained unspoken,
Because time was short, and the land-
scape was too large.
S.A.
NANCY CATO.


TTOW can any newcomer be expected
to puzzle out such ripe Aus-
tralianisms as “The cow of a horse turned
dog on me”? —“M’Lou.”
* * * •
“Gravelsnatcher”: Clearing, particu-
larly around swamps, has driven the red-
eared fi retail from where it was ooce
plentiful in W.A., and now you’d
search hard to find it even along
some of the south-west rivers,
where there are still long stretches
of near-virgin country. But it still exists
in parts-of the big reserve set aside for
drainage for the Mundaring Reservoir,
where shooting is prohibited and the
prohibition is enforced at least to an
extent that discourages the type of hunter
that blazes away at anything that moves.
The firetail’s natural habitat is along
watercourses, and there are plenty of
these in the hills around Mundaring ; but
this is one of our most secretive birds. It
sticks close to the ground, getting a fair
part of its food from the seeds that fall
from the low shrubs, and, unlike other
finches, it doesn’t congregate in flocks.
* * * *
“Banana”: I, too, remember that gin
who had been blinded by finger-cherry
(B. 27 /11 / ’57) ; the same tribe also cared
tenderly for another stricken member —a
rickety, deformed youth, whose body
always gave one the impression of being
about to fall apart, and in motion was
apt to take a sudden list in any direction,
in a most alarming manner. The victim’s
uncle told me he had been crushed by a
big python.
* * * *
“Maitri”: “Isn’t it a wonderful imita-
tion? You’d swear he was alive!”
gushed the young thing on our railway-
station as we gazed at a kookaburra
perched at the edge of a bird-bath on the
other side of the line. “But surely it’s a
real one?” I said. She laughed. “That’s
what everybody thinks. As a matter of
fact, it's only a lifelike model.” Just then
Jacko emitted an eldritch chuckle and,
spreading his wings, soared off to a
distant eucalyptus.
* * * *
GYPSUM
T AKE MACDONNELL is a salt lake
six miles inland from the Great Aus-
tralian Bight. Some 4000 years ago a
subterranean upheaval raised a portion
of its bed. Since then an average of seven
inches of rain each year has washed all
the salt back into the sea, leaving an
extensive deposit of the purest gypsum.
Australian Gypsum, Ltd., holds nine-
tenths of the leases to the 34-square-mile,
17ft.-deep seam. Colonial Sugar Refining
Co., their principal rival in the Australian
plaster and wallboard industry, holds the
other one-tenth.
Gypsum, which is calcium-sulphate
and water, on being dried and crushed
becomes plaster-of-Paris.
A big transport handicap is that the
perpetual swell from the gale-lashed
Southern Ocean makes berthage for
shipping hazardous. Many years ago a
jetty was built at Port le Hunte, a par-
tially sheltered inlet off the Bight, where
ships could load between storms.
Camels were used to cart the gypsum
across the six miles of sand dunes from
Lake Macdonnell.
Calms were unpredictable ; camels
only slightly less so: the jetty was often
“You all for the rail-gauge standardisation job ?”
damaged by storms. Better shipping
facilities were available 50 miles east-
wards, at Thevenard, and in 1924 the
Waratah Gypsum Company established a
plaster-mill there. They spent half-a-
million pounds on an elaborate aerial
ropeway between Lake Macdonnell and
the railhead at Kowulka, five miles inland.
It could handle sufficient gypsum in one
day to keep the mill-going for a week.
For six days a week half-a-million
pounds worth of machinery was idle !
Coal for fuel had to be hauled 1300 miles
from Newcastle.
Until then Australia’s plaster need?
had been obtained from the Peninsula
Plaster Company’s mill at Stenhouse Bay,
at the tip of Yorke Peninsula and 40
miles from Adelaide by sea ; and from the
Victor Plaster Company’s gypsum
deposits at Marion Bay, next to Sten-
house Bay. Marion Bay is shallow and
unsuitable for shipping ; Stenhouse Bay
has a deepwater jetty which is often un-
usable through being exposed to the pre-
vailing south-west swell.
The Waratah Company, handicapped
by its uneconomic aerial ropeway, was
soon in difficulties when building activi-
ties and the demand for plaster were cur-
tailed by the depression. Peninsula Plaster
needed new gypsum deposits ; and Victor
Plaster needed a deep-water shipping
terminal. The three companies pooled
their resources to become Australian
Gypsum Products, Ltd. They closed the
Thevenard and Stenhouse Bay mills, in-
stalled a bulk-loading plant capable of
loading a 3000-ton ship in 24 hours to
overcome the disadvantage of the exposed
Stenhouse Bay berth, and sent enough
gypsum to Adelaide, Melbourne and
Sydney to enable the mills there to satisfy
Australia’s and New Zealand’s depression-
depleted plaster demands.
When the demand increased another
mill was opened at Auckland in 1935, and
was also supplied with gypsum from
Stenhouse Bay. Further expansion wm
necessary to meet the post-war building
boom, and the mill at Thevenard was
reopened. The diesel plant from the
abandoned aerial ropeway was adapted
as a power plant, while locally available
wood superseded coal as a fuel for the
drying-kettles.
South Australian Railways, with an
order to haul 900 tons a week to Theven-
ard, p. u t a spur into the gypsum deposits,
Three men, a bulldozer and a truck load
weekly 900 tons, 300 tons of which keeps
the mill going, while the other 600 is
stockpiled for shipment to Auckland,
Gypsum readily compacts into an
excellent surface for heavy traffic, and the
bulldozer can make its own ramp as it
pushes loose gypsum into 20ft.-high heaps,
20,000 tons to a heap. The truck carts it
to the rail loading-ramp,
~. ° , .
f ■ F i fte f'“ to + twenty thousand tons are
stockp, ed at Thevenard where there is
no bulk-loading plant Every six weeks
? r so a f ° r Auckland loads by grabs
from rail-trucks. Between times other
ships take the mill’s plaster output to
Brisbane and southern New Zealand,
where there are no plaster-mills,
Occasionally a 5000-ton gypsum shipment
goes to the Philippine Islands,
n , , . . ~ f ,
Bu plaster imported from Germany
can still be marketed in New Zealand at
, , h Australian
?
P ro uc '
LOOKOUT.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
THE OUTLOOK FOR 1958
WHAT are the prospects for
1958?
Actually, prospects vary
from industry to industry.
But the chief overall factors are
that, compared with the past
year, export prices are generally
lower, import prices are
generally higher, and Australian
production costs are also a
little higher.
In addition, the land indus-
tries are finding production
more difficult as well as more
costly because of drought in
some parts. In N.S.W- drought
has made the production of
wheat almost impossible this
season, and imports of wheat,
instead of exports, are neces-
sary.
Whilst drought does not yet
affect the output of metals (it
could, through hydro-power, if
it spread far enough), prices for
metals are down overseas, and
it seems that as the months go
by there will be an accumula-
tion of adverse factors show-
ing-up in our export figures.
.So far (to November, anyway)
export values have held up very
well, at £391 million being £l2
million greater than in the
preceding year; but this was
largely the result of bigger ship-
ments of wool. Imports (£333
million for the period) were up
£26 million, and the favorable
commodity-balance of trade
was down £13.7 million at
£57.7 million.
A Pinch to Come
Clearly the impact of lower
prices on our economy has not
yet been severe in terms of
overseas trade. But it seems
unlikely that the increased
volume of exports that so far
has done much to maintain this
state of overseas trading
strength will continue through-
out the year.
Our chief exports are
normally wool, wheat and other
grains, meats, metals and dairy
products, in that order. Whilst
the export "of iron and steel
has started to become quite an
important part in the Australian
overseas trading position, it is
difficult to see anything but a
weakening of the export posi-
tion as we go further into
1957-58 and the mid-term fall-
ing prices begin to compare
unfavorably with the buoyant
prices of the second half of
1956-57.
Wool Prices
Wool has just lately shown
a turn for the better at Aus-
tralian auctions. This is
fortunate, but its strength and
influence have yet to be
determined.
Suez was a stimulating factor
in overseas prices this time last
year. No such stimulus has
appeared so far this term;
“ME skip, Mrs. Maloney, and leave behind
all me beautiful luggage ?”
rather has there been a reac-
tion. Wool, because of its con-
tinued strong domestic demand,
will probably fare better in
the world’s markets than some
other fibres and commodities,
but this season to date 12| p.c.
more wool has been sold at an
average price 7.7 p.c. lower.
There is probably now less of
this season’s wool to be sold
than there was this time last
year, and in 1956-57 the best
prices were realised in the
second half of the year.
The favorable balance of
trade for the first five months of
this term, compared with the
preceding term, should not be
taken as a guide to the overall
outlook for 1957-58. The real
test has yet to come.
Our export income governs
our ability to import essentials
and luxuries, and at the same
time it has an obvious bearing
on the rural incomes.
buying - power is a powerful
factor throughout most of our
secondary industries, more
especially as regards mechanical
implements, tractors and a
variety of steel products.
Export income, internally,
supplements income from
domestic sales, although in the
case of wool and most metals
the export surplus is larger than
internal consumption.
The trend of rural production
and rural prices, internal and
overseas, has a distinct influence
on credit policy within the
Commonwealth and therefore
upon the spending-power avail-
able to the whole community.
Credit Policy
During the past 12 months
the Treasury and the central
bank have curtailed credit in
order to check inflation at a
time when rising post-Suez
wool prices and a. favorable
trade-balance would normally
have made the credit position
much easier. One result of this
was that in November the
special accounts of the trading-
banks “frozen” with the central
bank stood at £340 million,
compared with £258 million in
October, 1956. During the same
period trading-bank advances
to industry and the public fell
from £BBB million to £B7l
million.
The benefit of such a policy
should now become evident if
the shrinkage in rural incomes
and the slide in the favorable
balance-of-trade continues.
Australia has not cashed-in
on its prosperity of the past
year largely because of a
cautious national credit policy.
Should unemployed manpower
and resources become available,
it will be sound business to
make credit easier—to release
some of that “frozen” money—
in order to keep our resources
fully employed, but without
further inflation in the level of
costs.
Costs and Credit
That part of the programme
is most essential —if we are to
have a squeeze in the national
economy, it is far better that
costs of production should
come down rather than go up.
Some fall in the internal level
of costs, passing into internal
and export prices, would tend
to stimulate efficient produc-
tion and put our industries on
a sounder, more competitive
basis.
It is unlikely, even if low
export prices continue, that
there will be a great amount of
unemployed manpower avail-
able for national works. The
distribution of incomes in Aus-
tralia seems likely to remain
on a scale where emphasis on
consumption goods will remain
high ; but if there should be a
buttoning -up of spending
through lack of confidence in
the national economics, and a
consequent increase in savings,
then a policy of expanded
public works, with an eye
always on their reproductive
valu, will be in order.
But again emphasis must be
on efficient and low-cost carry-
ing-out of works programmes.
It is indicative of managerial
bankruptcy at the highest level
when “work” is given simply
in order to put someone on a
payroll.
The Sharemarket
The sharemarket at the
present time is hardly a true
reflector of economic condi-
tions. Record prices are being
paid for several top-line stocks,
but this is by no means an
indication of the market
generally. It is rather because
of doubts about many of the
second- and third-line issues


wMm
Wi
When you travel
Some people like to holiday in the busy,
popular resorts; others like the far-off places.
Whichever you prefer, and whether you travel
on business or pleasure, you can save yourself
a good deal of worry by carrying Bank of
New South Wales travellers’ cheques.
These are readily cashed wherever you go
and, by saving you the risk of carrying large
sums of money, they add just that much
extra freedom to your travelling.
Enquire about these, and other special
travel facilities, at any branch.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Travellers’ Cheques
Issued by the Bank of New South Wales
(Incorporated in New South Wales with limited liability)
A5750C
that so much is being paid for
front-rankers.
It is a supply-and-demand
situation that has been created
in the sharemarket itself, and
the low yields being accepted
from the favored few are not
indicative Of any great im-
provement in the yield position
being expected in the foresee-
able future.
Institutional buying —by
fixed-trusts, staff - provident
funds, life-assurance offices,
etc. —takes a much longer-term
view than that usually agree-
able to the private investor, and
institutions are gene ra 11 y
restricted by their charter as to
the type of shares they may
buy ; hence the tendency for a
comparatively few stocks to
be crowded into a corner like
selected sheep, with a conse-
quent likelihood of the yield
available from them being
almost suffocated.
In summary, the outlook for
1958 is that conditions are
likely to get tougher before they
get better. We haven’t seen
the worst effect of lower prices
yet, and the drought in eastern
Australia will have far-reach-
ing influences. But while
economic conditions are likely
to remain disconcerting, there
are “shock-absorber” remedies
available to the Federal
Treasury and banking
authorities that should be put
into operation if conditions get
really difficult.
The toughest problems to
contend with will be those out-
side our own control —namely,
world prices and seasonal con-
ditions.
B.H.P. Rights
FOR one day before the
Christmas break B.H.P.
rights were traded. In Mel-
bourne they sold at 20s. 9d.; in
Sydney they were quoted at
205.-215., with the old shares
at 415.-425.
These quotes are rather lower
than the 465. 6d. cwm-rights
price of the previous day, but
appeared to be tentative.
The opening sales in the New
Year should be a.more reliable
guide to what happens over the
long stretch to February 24,
when applications close.
The market generally in early
1958, however, promises to be
hesitant and wary.
THE AUSTRALIAN
ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF COLLEGE
TN his London Airmail this
•*- week (page 31), Herbert
Holman comments on the
shortage of good managers in
Britain, and discusses the find-
ings of the Acton Society Trust
in its “Managers for To-
morrow.”
Australia, too, is now deeply
concerned with the supply of
good managers for industry.
The Australian Administra-
tive Staff College was estab-
lished in 1955, on the recom-
mendation of a committee
set up by the Rotary
Club of Sydney. Its objects are
to provide a course of studies in
the principles and techniques of
organisation and administra-
tion, and to conduct a school
for research into the best
methods of administration.
The establishment of the
college has given practical
recognition in Australia to a
need which has previously been
recognised overseas. Institu-
tions with similar aims are
already making an important
contribution to efficiency in
commerce, industry and
government in the United
Kingdom, U.S.A., and certain
European countries.
Financed by Business
The college is being financed
entirely by contributions from
a growing group of the leading
Australian business institutions.
It has been registered in the
Australian Capital Territory as
a non-profit company, limited
by guarantee, and it has no
political or social affiliations.
The Commonwealth Treasurer
lias agreed that donations to the
college are allowable deduc-
tions for the purpose of
income-tax. The governing
body of the college is a
council whose members repre-
sent many phases of Australian
private and public enterprise.
Mr. Essington Lewis, C.H., is
chairman of the college
council.
In 1956 Professor Sir
Douglas Copland accepted an
invitation from the council to
become principal of the college.
Early in 1957 the college
council acquired the property
previously known as Moondah,
the home of the Grice family,
and more recently as the Hotel
Manyung. It will form a
permanent and spacious home
for the growing work of the
college.
The first session of the
college was held at Manyung
from September 6 to November
28 1957.
Purpose
Sir Hector Hetherington, one
.... r , r ,
Of the founders of the
Administrative Staff College at
Henley-on-Thames, said in an
article in “The * Times” in
November, 1945: —
Every enterprise calls for the
capacity to hold in mind a total and
perhaps distinct situation, to plan
Sh Bm ?he nec a e n ssary rm mar£s To
assemble in the right relation and at
the right time the diverse managerial
snd human resources, to take con-
sistent decisions on points of detail
and, indispensably, to see that
junior executives in the several
e h °L to do the sa T;
In these things there are an order
and a technique which are not
simply gifts of nature. Training
helps.
The purpose of the Aus-
tralian college is to bring
together executives of proved
administrative capacity, to give
them the opportunity of
examining different administra-
tive practices, and to prepare


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Virectors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY , Chairman ; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White ; A. G. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. P. BURDON, Manager.
'Phone: BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
them for higher responsibilities
in the future. The course will
emphasise the vital part played
by the administrator in all fields
cf enterprise 1 — public and
private—and will concentrate
attention on methods by which
productivity can be increased.
Those who undertake the
course will not only, have the
opportunity of , studying and
discussing the principles and
practice of administration in
company with others of
different professional and voca-
tional backgrounds ; . more
important, they will be
encouraged to examine the
significance of their own work
in relation to the national
economy and its development.
Thus the long-term benefits of
the course will be greater
administrative efficiency in the
individual enterprise, and
higher productivity at the
national level.
Methods of Study
The college is fully residen-
tial, and the course extends
over a period of twelve weeks.
The members of a course are
divided into four syndicates or
groups, each of about 10
persons, with a member of the
directing staff in charge of each
syndicate. The syndicates them-
selves are so arranged that their
members represent a balanced
cross-section of the major fields
of administration in industry
and government. Thus the
syndicate becomes an intimate
group, so selected that its
members derive the maximum
benefit from an exchange of
experience and ideas.
As much responsibility as
possible is thrown on individual
members. Syndicates under-
take a series of assignments and
case-studies, and the office of
chairman and secretary of a
syndicate will be taken by
members in turn. The chair-
man, with the guidance of the
members of the directing-staff
in charge of his syndicate, will
be obliged to prepare a plan
for carrying-out a project by a
given date. He will be forced to
draw upon the resources of his
syndicate-members whose con-
tributions, based on experience
in varying fields, will enable the
syndicate to overcome its
problems and pave the way for
a written report ort particular
aspects studied. The chairman
is expected to present the report
and defend the views of his
syndicate before a meeting of
the whole college.
Work done in the syndicates
will be supplemented by field
visits, and by lectures and
seminars conducted in part by
the principal and staff and in
part by visiting specialists. The
visitors will be leaders in public
and private enterprise who
will deal with the problems of
administration encountered in
their own specialised fields.
The Course of Studies
Underlying the planning and
preparation of the course of
studies was the belief that
leaders in both business and
public bodies have common
problems of policy and
administration, and that if they
are to promote the interest of
the nation they must learn to
understand and respect each
other. The long-term objec-
tive of the course is to give
them a fresh awareness of the
significance of their work, not
merely as members of a single
organisation but also as mem-
bers of a whole community,
and to prepare them for higher
responsibilities
The main divisions of the
course of studies are:
I. Introduction to Administra-
tion.
11. Internal Organisation.
(i a ) Accounting and financial con-
trol.
( b ) Personnel management.
(c) Subdivisions of the organisa-
tion.
(d) Delegation, control and
accountability.
(e) Sources of current informa-
tion.
(J) Organisation for production—
* (1) Workshop management.
* (2) Research and develop-
ment.
* (3) Office service.
* (4) Management accounting.
* (5) The personnel depart-
ment.
111. External Relations.
(a) Commercial relations —
* (1) Consumers and customers.
* (2) Purchasing.
* (3) Sources of finance.
(4) Trade associations.
( b > Industrial relations.
(c) Public relations.
id) Relations with Federal and
State Governments.
(e) Relations with local
authorities.
(/) The State and the entrepreneur.
IV. Establishment, Growth and
Adaptation to Change.
(a) Scale of operations and size.
( b ) Economic change.
(c) Technological change.
id) Maintaining vitality.
V. The Administrator.
[* Members having similar skills and
vocational interests will be grouped
together in special syndicates to con-
sider a selection of these subjects.
Each member will attend one only
of such syndicates.]
In addition to the five main
parts of the course, the college
provides for the study of the
biographies of some of the
people who have achieved
distinction in different fields of
administration or public life.
Library
A library of books and
periodicals is being built up,
and members of each course
will be encouraged to make full
use of it. In addition to works
on management, administration
and immediately related sub-
jects, the library will contain a
substantial proportion of books
dealing with subjects of a less
technical nature: economics,
history, philosophy, political
science, and the like.
Research and Case Studies
One of the functions of the
college is to provide facilities
lor research in administration.
The college hopes shortly to be
in a position to provide
research facilities for workers
of appropriate standing, whose
studies can be assisted by the
information and contacts avail-
able at the college.
It is also the intention that,
from the outset, members of
the directing staff should be
given the facilities to compile
a series of case-studies of
administration in Australia, and
to engage in other research
projects. Their work in the
college will give them favorable
opportunities to do this, and the
case-studies they prepare will
be invaluable for use in the
course of studies.
Admission and Fees
All candidates for admission
must be nominated by their
department, local-government
body, trade-union, firm or com-
pany, to who§e service they will
be expected to return after
completion of the course.
Candidates should be persons
of considerable executive
experience who have
demonstrated their adminis-
trative capacity and are
regarded as capable of assum-
ing higher executive responsi-
bility as their training and
experience develop and oppor-
tunity offers.
Those admitted to a course
will be obliged to give up their
normal duties completely for a
period of three months. It is
therefore most desirable that
selections for each course
should be made as far in
advance as possible. Ultimately
it is intended that the member-
ship of a session will be
settled six months or more
before the course is due to
commence.
Candidates will normally be
interviewed before selection. In
the case of a candidate from
outside Victoria the interview
may be arranged with one or
more college representatives
near the candidate’s home.
The fee for the course is
£5OO payable in advance by the
nominator. This covers full
board and lodging, the cost of
the necessary equipment, and
all other expenses directly
associated with the course. The
college council reserves the
right to vary the fee should
circumstances make this
necessary.
Residential Arrangements
The college is on the east
coast of Port Phillip Bay,
about 30 miles from Mel-
bourne. There is comfortable
accommodation for all mem-
bers of the course, and suitable
facilities are available for
private study, syndicate discus-
sions, plenary sessions and
recreation. The grounds are
laid out in gardens, and there
are tennis-courts and a private
swimming - beach. Honorary
membership of nearby golf and
bowling clubs may be
arranged.
Linoleum Holdings
TXEALINGS in Linoleum
Holdings, Ltd., at 255.
before Christmas were at the
lowest level for many months.
Yet the output of floor-cover-
ings continues at a high level.
The shares carry whatever
dividend will be payable in
March —last term it was 1\
p.c. (Is. 6d. a share). The
operating co., Michael Nairn
(Australia), has a big potential.
According to Staniforth
Ricketson, of J. B. Were and
Son (the Melbourne stockbrok-
mg house), and one of the
nation’s best - informed
financiers, the ill-wind in
Indonesia will blow capital
from the area, and from Hong
Kong and Malaya, possibly to
Australia.




SUNDRY
SHOSWS
Stage and Music
Pantos
There’s no shortage of
children’s fare for the holidays
in Sydney: “The Willow
Pattern Plate” (Phillip-street
Theatre), “The Little Round
House” (Independent), “Goody
Two Shoes” (Tivoli), “Mother
Goose” (Palladium), and “Cin-
derella” (Elizabethan).
The Bulletin has no hesita-
tion in recommending all of
them, although it only sur-
vived two (“Goody Two Shoes”
and “Cindeiella”).before being
completely overwhelmed by
17,000,000 children, 2\ tons of
assorted sweets, 1000 gallons
of soft-drink and 3| tons of
ice-cream.
Even through this haze of
juvenile festivity some things
still made an impact. Babs
McKinnon’s legs, for instance.
There should be more of ’em
pardon, more like them.
How on earth is one supposed
to keep one’s mind on magic
shoes, the horrible Yellow
Dwarf, and Joe Lawman’s
Vastly comical Dame when
Miss McKinnon, as Principal
Boy, flashes a pair of pins so
shapely that it seemed incred-
ible that the Yellow Dwarf did
not give up his scallywagging
immediately and take to leg-
watching, which, after all, is
every bit as interesting as bird-
watching and generally much
more rewarding.
In fact, one thought that the
Dwarf’s mind would have been
taken completely off the job
of kidnapping Goody when
Miss Babs came on with a
sword and a silver shirt which
reached no further down than
it sportingly should, but he
persevered • with admirable
tenacity. Even when Babs re-
appeared disguised as a Girl
Guide .or Brownie or some-
thing similar, but proving very
definitely that G.G.s and
Brownies have legs above the
knees and even further, the
villainous Dwarf provedlkhe
was less than human by taking
no notice of ’em.
On second thoughts, perhaps
the legs were his undoing;
wnen the two of them crossed
swords in a shower of sparks,
Miss Babs may have deflected
his attention by feinting with an
irresistible ankle, so that he
turned momentarily from his
purpose and was immediately
skewered.
Lacking the tenacity of the
Yellow Dwarf, one was not
altogether capable of keep-
ing one’s mind on the rest of
the proceedings while Miss
Babs was around, but it was
impossible not to note that
Bobby Limb and Dawn Lake
made a little classic of the piece
about the hole in the bucket,
that the Dalrays’ breathtaking
athletics held the kids of ail
ages breathless, and that some-
body unseen made an enchant-
ing spectacle with dancing
fountains of water and colored
lights.
And thence to the Eliza-
bethan’s “Cinderella,” which, if
somewhat lacking in comical
zip, at least tries to make up
for it im leisurely and graceful
costuming and production, so
that Janice and Joy and Kay
and Marcia, who escorted The
Bulletin from show to show,
shrieked with mirth at the Tiv.
but sat in spellbound silence at
the Elizabethan.
And why not? If Dame Reg
Quartly, Buttons A 1 Thomas
and Ugly Sisters Olive Walter
and David Burney haven’t
much to make merry on, Rose-
mary Marriott, as Prince
Charming, also has a trim set
of pins, and Wendy Blacklock,
as Cinderella, looks as though
a pumpkin would turn into a
golden coach for her at any old
time. This little bit of
enchanting hocus-pocus is
quite beautifully done, inci-
dentally, and, as spectacle, is 1;
only surpassed by a remarkable'
display of dancing by members
of the Rudas Juvenile Dancers.
“The Multi-Colored
Umbrella”
with diamonds. The tragic thing
is that this produces exactly the
opposite result to what he is
wanting. The more he pays
tribute to her beauty the more
she despises him for it. He is
killing the thing he loves, to
use Oscar Wilde’s phrase. She
seems to prefer his big brother
who treats her in a much more
primitive fashion. When the
infatuated husband catches
them at it he also momentarily
becomes primitive and attacks
his brother with the traditional
Australian weapon. He breaks
a beer-bottle in half and is
about to use it to some purpose
when his brother falls back-
wards off the roof-patio of
their father’s house in Bondi.
Having had her womanhood
awakened by this demonstra-
tion, the wife runs off into
the shrubbery with her matri-
monial partner and the opus
closes.
If this is rather a rough
description, well, Miss Vernon’s
is rather a rough play. It lacks
the intellectual polish of a
T. S. Eliot, a Tennessee
Williams or an Arthur Miller.
But do they say in their Oxford
accents anything more signi-
ficant than Miss Vernon’s
bookies do in their racecourse
.parlance? They all think in
terms of their own conventions,
but emotionally the bookies are,
if anything, much nearer the
knuckle. So who is the most
real ?
“It is unpleasant to study
ourselves in the pure light of
our own motives... .we tend to
keep an umbrella between us
and the light....lt is neither
black nor white, but multi-
colored with the complication
of our loves, hates and desires,”
says one of Miss Vernon’s
characters. If this was the
“The Umbrella” is a remark-
able play on more grounds
than one. It is remarkable that
it was written by an Australian
and that it has been put on
exhibition in the Australian
commercial theatre. That it was
written by an Australian
author is remarkable because
Australians are a religious
people and their national
religion is the horse, and Miss
Barbara Vernon treats the
horse and its human appur-
tenances in a very irreverential,
if not blasphemous, fashion.
Nat Gould wrote plays about
the Australian racehorse and
Bland Holt put them on, but
their hqrses were always noble
animals and their various
hangers-on were either godlike
creatures or villains of the
deepest dye. In short, there
was nothing real about them
except contraptions like revolv-
ing racetracks on which the
leading horse sometimes fell
but continued to win the Cup
while lying on its back.
Miss Vernon’s play is made
of sterner stuff. Her hero is
a young bookmaker who has
married above his station and
who burgles his father’s bag
in order to load his lovely wife


Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO GEORGE WARD late of Tarro near
Maitland in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that DOREEN
PEARL WARD has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3722 of 1957 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Sydney by the
Twenty-eighth day of February One
thousand nine hundred and fifty-eight
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. BARKELL &
PEACOCK, Solicitors, 11c Castlereagh
Street, Sydeny, as town agents for
MESSRS. T. A. HILL & SON, Solicitors,
416 High Street, Maitland, Solicitors
for the Petitioner. —J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE 'SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO EILEEN JUNE SMITH late of
Kurri Kurri.—TAKE NOTICE that
JOSEPH ROBERT SMITH has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3629 of 1957
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for Three (3) years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 28th day of February
1958 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from LAURENCE &
LAURENCE, Solicitors, 44-46 Martin
Place, Sydney, City Agents for HENRY
T. SKILTON & SKILTON, Solicitors for
the Petitioner, 444 High Street, Mait-
land.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Fuituro
The year we have just lived will surely go
down as one of the most revealing in human
history: a marker year for the turn to a still
newer age.
It was the year in which mechanical satellites
were sent out to circle the Earth; when the first
tests of the survival of creature life in outer space
were made; when men spoke —and not now in fable
—of trajecting rockets to the moon; when means
of controlling the atoms of hydrogen were opening
the prospect of water’s use as a source of future
power, and scientists were beginning to find the
closer secrets of the sun.
It is in the nature of Man to be sceptical af
first of the daring innovations of his time_ Towards
the end of the 18th century, those who ventured up
in balloons of heated air were thought to be flying
in the face of the Divine. But today we know that
they were movers in the brave circle that has
brought us an airways system which is the good
and useful servant of mankind.
The flight of progress will go on. Things that
now seem almost awesome in their newness will
become commonplace—and will be directed, we
may trust, to the best and wisest ends. Under
Providence the years from now will be productive
of more in human welfare than anything that was
known in the past.
But they will bring their demands. In Australia,
for instance, we dare not rest on the pleasant
thought that the year just past was generally a good
one, in which the economy held sound.
By paradox, the wider Man reaches in his
discoveries the more he cancels distance and brings
the areas of Earth closer together. And the world
will judge our effort as holders of a continent not
by any leisurely pace we may choose to make for
ourselves but by the standards of dhese swift and
soaring times.
NEW YEAR’S DAY, 1958
////asf^f s
Sydney Tiv.
The second edition of
“Rhythm Express” has the
same star as the first edition —
British singer Shirley Bassey —
to round-off the doings with
her virile and effective brand
of torch-singing, to which she
brings a personality second-to-
none in the business, and a
relaxed poise remarkable for a
girl of 20. Over a string of
songs she demonstrated her
ability to squeeze the maxi-
mum emotion out of each.
For the rest, Terpsichore
dominates the show, mostly in
the person of Margo, “the
Z Bomb”—and certainly there
is something highly explosive
about the dancing of this lithe,
sinuous and fierily voluptuous
little Puerto Rican.
The wild, barbaric dances in
which she specialises leave the
imagination without any work
at all to do, and the tenuous
fripperies she inhabits would
make a Bondi beach-inspector
totter towards the nearest
restorative. Her stuff makes
the most ardent rock-’n’-roll
routines look like 18th-century
minuets.
The Spanish team of
Christine and Mill continue
their variations on the Iberian
dance-theme, with the latter’s
nimble tapping a feature; and
Lili Berde gives the “Mari-
huana” dance - number in
Jake’s joint another thorough
work-out. Dorothy Neal again
splashes paint to clever effect
over the torso of her muscular
partner Paul Newton; dex-
terous juggling is once more
made to look dead easy by
Jimmy Jeff as he balances with
one foot on a swaying wire ;
the Dalrays heave each other
about comically and with neat
timing; and the Three Winds
use a mouth-organ and a
couple of its weird relations
to fair effect.
Snappy comedy is supplied
by Archie Robbins, a glib-
tongued American raconteur
with an easy, matey manner,
and by Buster Fiddes, who
reaps a good crop of laughs
with his deadpan stuff even
when his mass of hair isn’t
looking as if it had just tangled
with a typhoon.
++«• *X+
“The Confidential Clerk”
One would be inclined to
describe this T. S. Eliot play,
served-up by Sydney’s Attic
Theatre two floors above the
Phillip-street Theatre, as a
masterpiece of overstatement:
Mr. Eliot cleverly spinning out
to three acts what could be
said in one. In a nutshell, the
theme is a search for voca-
tion : to act upon, not smother,
one’s capabilities.
Colby Simpkins is a budding
organist, illegitimate son to
financier Sir Claude Mul-
hammer. Sir Claude appoints
Colby as his confidential clerk
in place of old Eggerson,
smoothly played by Roger
Cox. At the outset, one would
remark that Colby, alias
Robert McPhee, looked more
like a car-salesman than an
organist, appearing as he did
in a faultless drape-shape plus
suede-shoes.
Colby (or maybe his general
air of affluence) catches the
eye of Lucasta Angel, an
intelligent, flighty .young lady,
who tells him she’s one of Sir
Claude’s pre-marital offspring.
Colby is stunned—Lucasta is
technically his sister —but she
misinterprets his reaction as
shock at her confession and
flies off the handle. Then
snooty Lady Elizabeth Mul-
hammer, played with sparkling
breathlessness by lima Suther-
land, probes Colby’s back-
ground, hits upon a familiar
iname—Mrs. Guzzard —and
idea she was trying to develop
in her play she hasn’t done
such a bad job. Robert Earle,
Marjorie Archibald, Jeffrey
Hodgson, Pamela Greenall,
Peter Aanensen and Brenda de
Lacy express it well Peter
Aanensen, as big brother,
superbly.


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
T)t RECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS, G. GORDON RUSSELL, A. MURRAY JONES,
HUGH DIXSON.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
Love Your Enemies
It'll Drive 'em Crazy
There are ways to discombo-
bulate enemies which are
valuable to learn because
little enemies can grow into
monsters!
In the January Reader’s
Digest, J. P. McEvoy cites
business enemies and spite-
fence builders gives some
unusual methods for turning
them into friends.
You’ll enjoy reading Reader’s
Digest with its wealth of
entertaining and informative
articles, including How the
Doctor Tests Your Heart, While
Others Sleep the Story of the
U.S. Strategic Air Command,
Inside Moscow. Here is the
best from the world’s leading
magazines and books, con-
densed to save your time. On
sale at all newsstands and
booksellers today. Only 2/-.
decides he’s her illegitimate
child.
It’s all pretty complicated,
but eventually everyone finds
whose father or son he is or
belongs to, and Colby does
what he should have done in
the beginning: gives up a busi-
ness-career to play the organ
in a local church. That, in
view of the stipend, would put
paid to drape-suite and suede-
shoes.
John Bluthal’s production is
very good indeed; Frederick
Powell exudes business acumen
and marital frustration as Sir
Claude Mulhammer, and Alan
Tobin is brashly yellow-waist-
coated as Barnabas Kaghan,
Lucasta’s fiance. Lucasta her-
self' is nicely portrayed by
Judyth Barron, and Tessa
Hughes is adequate as Mrs.
Guzzard, the woman who
hands around parentages like
silver - wrapped chocolates.
Robert McPhee’s Colby, as
already noted, seems a trifle
too man-of-the-worldish.
One mustn’t forget the inter-
mittent cross-section of drums
and pianos from “Cross
Section” two floors down.
Curiously, the faint tinklings
and thumpings that trickled
into the garage-sized Attic
Theatre made fairly good back-
ground music.
A. W.
❖ *>
Carols
Sydney University’s Great
Hall was packed for a recital of
Christmas carols by a choir of
undergraduates. The sopranos
entered through the back door-
way singing “A Babe Is Born” ;
simultaneously a batch of
black-robed tenors and basses
emerged from a side-door half-
way down the hall lustily
chanting their respective tenor
and bass parts, to converge on
the sopranos as a tributary
meets its parent river. How
on earth they managed it
without any accompaniment
whatsoever is beyond conjec-
ture ; one suspected some hasty
work with a tuning-fork before-
hand.
And really it was good to
hear such an expert choir,
cajoled and hastened along by
conductor Fritz Rice, % render
(unaccompanied) those carols
one has known from choirboy
days and a few unfamiliar
ones as well. Interspersed
with the carols were hymns
which the audience stood and
sang, John Gordon providing
the organ-accompaniment.
Inevitably, there were one
or two weak points. In the
popular hymn “God rest you
merry, gentlemen,” surely, con-
sidering its boisterous holly-
and-tinsel flavor, the pace was
too slow? And in the “Carol
of Beauty,” which, quite sin-
cerely, is a beauty, Mr. Rice’s
beat seemed a little too
mathematical, so that this most
attractive carol tended to
degenerate into a quasi-jogtrot.
But, to atone, “Lullay My
Liking” flowed with a silver
smoothness, and two carols by
John Gordon, “The Stork” and
“Cradle Song,” had a lilting
simplicity about them. Then,
too, there was Praetorius’s
divine carol “Es ist ein Ros’
entsprungen,” with the lovely
spots where the altos overlap
the trebles —a temporary and
timid assertion of superiority.
One has always been
intrigued by “The Holly and
the Ivy”: music conjuring
brittle pine-trees, tinselled
presents and glass decorations.
The refrain seems to condense
this spirit admirably into four
lines:
The rising of the sun
And the running of the deer,
The playing of the merry organ
Sweet singing in the choir.
Such a refrain, like fireworks
on Guy Fawkes’s night, is age-
less.
A. W.
Artbursts
Adelaide Show
The enterprising directors of
John Martin’s Gallery in
Adelaide took a chance with
their Christmas show and it
paid-off handsomely. Some
time ago they sent off about
100 small freshly - primed
boards to artists all over the
country, and then waited to see
what would turn up. By thus
prodding the traditional
laziness of artists, they scored
a return of over 50 per cent,
and the gaiety and spontaneity
which so often illuminate a
small picture sparkle around
the whole of this show.
Clifton Pugh’s baleful
apostle-birds and bewildered
young magpies inhabit a dry
bush landscape that crackles
with life. Jacqueline Hick
poises her surf fishermen
against a restless sea, while
George Lawrence and Lloyd
Rees float their yachts in
harbors of light. William
Frater has two fine landscapes
of rolling pinks and reds, while
Robert Campbell demonstrates
that in Rome and Aldinga the
light can attack with equal
sharpness.
The most deeply felt and
satisfying pictures in the
gallery are the “Mother and
Child” and “Nuns Walking by
a River,” by Adelaide artist
Margarita Stipnieks. Their
success comes not only from
the richness of their blue but
from their quality of tender-
ness, something all too infre-
quently allowed to emerge in
modern painting.
GEOFFREY DUTTON.
Films
“Don’t Go Near the Water”
Here is an exuberant high-
speed comedy with a steady
supply of hilarious situations ;
its satire includes pokes at
pomposity in high places;
there’s a highly skilled cast to
do full justice to the witty
script.
A U.S. Navy public-relations
team on a Pacific island in war-
time, anxious to beat the rival
Army and Marine boys to the
big headlines back home, make
the exciting discovery that there
is in the service a rating rejoic-
ing in the name of Farragut
Jones names obviously
derived from those of two
immortals of the U.S. Navy.
They immediately start a bally-
hoo campaign with their hero
scheduled to make a nation-
wide tour back home as the
living symbol of self-sacrificing
voluntary enlistment. Then
Farragut casts-up from the
vasty deep and turns out to be
a slow-witted, huge, much-
tattooed gob with a passion for
uncontrollable swearing and
neat whisky.
The desperate efforts against
time to whip this unpromising
material into shape are inter-
spersed with some comic
romancing, and the best bit of
pure slapstick seen in years
when a group of p.-r.-o.s,
caught in a do-it-yourself burst
of enthusiasm, try to build their
own mess-hut. Between the
lot, the comedy-pot is kept
bubbling merrily till the final
fade-out.
Fred Clark is excellent as the
pompous chief p.-r.-o. who
keeps his team feeding him with
ideas which he shamelessly
adopts as his own. Glenn Ford,
as the offsider who plays upon
the trump’s colossal vanity with
practised ease, sets many a
good comedy-move going, and
Mike Shaugnessy is the hard-
swearing mariner.
At Sydney St. James.
❖ ❖ ❖
“True As a Turtle”
Slow and uninventive, this
British comedy is all about the
trials and tribulations of a
yachting-party which sets out
cn a cross-Channel trip. Script-
writer and director have clung
grimly to those comedy-situa-
tions which have been hallowed
by 50 years’ or more service
with the comic papers. The
yacht runs on a sandbank; the
pump breaks down; the
bumbling skipper takes a
tumble overboard and has to be
rescued by his rival; the craft
gets lost in a fog; and that
good old standby, the kid with
German - measles, forces the
honeymoon couple on board to
take to separate bunks, etc.
John Gregson, as the
frustrated honeymooner, and
Cecil Parker, as the yacht’s
owner-skipper, put in a lot of
hard work to keep the opus
from foundering, but it is heavy
going.
At Sydney Embassy.


The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd.
nnHE full significance of the sudden
demise of the Melbourne “Argus”
and the purchase of the ord. capital in
Argus and Australasian, Ltd., by Herald
and Weekly Times, Ltd., can hardly be
translated into balance-sheet figures.
While scarcely a threat to H. and
W.T.’s newspaper “empire,” the London-
controlled Argus and Australasian, Ltd.,
did provide a potential challenge to the
“Herald’s” position as Melbourne’s sole
evening newspaper. By virtue of the
premium attaching to its scrip in. the
sharemarket, H. and W.T. was able to
acquire the, modern and expensive
“Argus” presses —well-suited for the pro-
duction of a competing evening-paper—
and at the same time show a handsome
book-profit on the transaction. An imme-
diate and tangible benefit was a 20 p.c.
increase in the circulation of the “Sun-
News-Pictorial.”
Supported by net tangible assets
estimated to be worth more than £1
million, the ord. capital in Argus and
Australasian cost H. and W.T. 350,000 £1
ords., the scrip, which has a market-value
of about £1.6 million, carrying restricted
voting-rights (two votes for each five
shares).
The interests of the Melbourne-based
H. and W.T. extend far beyond Victoria.
Australia’s largest publishing-house, the
co. is a principal shareholder in Aus-
tralian Newsprint Mills, Ltd. (Tasmania),
Queensland Press, Ltd. (which has a
monopoly of Brisbane dailies), and
Adelaide Newspapers, Ltd. (publisher of
the Adelaide “Advertiser”). Victorian
interests include the Herald Gravure
printery, two radio-stations (subsidiary
and associated cos. control stations in
other States), and an 85 p.c. shareholding
in Herald-Sun TV Pty., which operates
one of Melbourne’s three TV-stations.
The parent co. now produces “Austra-
lasian Post” and “Your Home” in addi-
tion to “Weekly Times,” “Sporting
Globe,” “Home Beautiful,” “Listener-in-
TV,” “Aircraft” and the two dailies.
Last term, both “Herald” and “Sun”
carried more display-advertising than
ever before, but there was a very slight
contraction in the “Herald” circulation.
During the year (to September 30 last)
the parent’s trading- and investment-
income rose by £1,217,036 to £12,590,605,
43.1 p.c. of this record total going to pay
for newsprint and printing-paper gener-
ally, compared with 40.9 p.c. (of a
smaller figure) in the previous term.
The Argus and Australasian, Ltd., in-
curred a loss of £259,815 in the year to
June 30, 1957, and the introduction of
that co.’s accumulated losses into the
accounts, rather than the higher newsprint
and labor costs, would appear to have
been mainly responsible for the sharp
drop in the provision for tax (down
£254,691 at £488,500) and a £32,570 slip
in group earnings:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
f Dividends
z Pref.—- —,, Re-
Sept., Profit. 64 p.c. 6 p.c. ( —Ordinary serves.*
£ £ £ p.c. £ £
Tax overprovided, £7854 .. .. 1,471,750
Share premiums, £499,129 .. .. 1,970,879
Added reserves, £53,974 .. .. 2,024,853
Less added intangibles, £566,453 . . 1,458,400
1954. .504,710 8125 16,500 20 =321,333 1,617,152
Tax overprovided, £1375 .. .. 1,618,527
Share premiums, £B7l .. . . 1,619,398
Add reduction intangibles, £338,750.. 1,958,148
To plant replacement res., £225,000 . . 2,183,148
1955. .620,108 8125 16,500 20 =407,471 2,371,160
Adjustment minority interest, £21,436 2,392,596
Tax overprovided, £4909 .. ..2,397,505
Sale of shares to Queensland Press,
Ltd., profit £139,619 .. .. 2,537,124
-Establishment exp., TV co., £38,807 2,498,317
Increase in intangibles, £267,091 .. 2,231,226
To plant-replacement res.,. £252,500 2,483,726
1956. 8125 16,500 20 =417,234 2,675,328
Tax overprovided, £6233 .. ..2,681,561
Unexplained additions (net), £151,269 2,832,830
Surplus, Argus net tangibles over par
value of scrip issued as considera-
tion, £945,329 3,778,159
Reduction intangibles, £481,043 . . 4,259,202
To plant-replacement reserve, £225,000 4,484,202
1957. 8125 16,500 20 =465,385 4,595,083
* After deducting intangibles, £302,558 at
September 30, 1957.
Before arriving at the £600,891 profit
claimed by the board, £390,611 (down
£22,071) was provided for depreciation
and £225,000 (down £27,000) tucked-
away to cover the increased cost of plant-
replacement. Pref. divs. called for £24,625,
the balance of the earnings equalling 25.8
p.c. on average ord. capital, as against
29.1, 29.2 and 28,9 p.c. in the three years
back to 1954.
The ord. div.-rate was unchanged at
20 p.c., lifting the average rate over the
past 10 years to 16.7 p.c. Last issue to
shareholders was in 1954, when 2,000,000
ss. ords. were offered (one-for-three) at
a premium of 10s., paid capital reaching
£2,836,241 on completion of the “Argus”
deal. If no further capital is issued in the
current term, £511,873, or £89,018 less
than last term’s showing, will be
required to maintain ord. and pref. div.-
rates.
At the beginning of the term H. and
W.T. held 56 p.c.' of the share-capital in
Queensland Press, the subsequent reduc-
tion of the holding to 37.3 p.c. (the public
holds 33.4 p.c. and a private co., C.W.L.
Pty., 29.3 p.c.) and purchase of the Argus
and Australasian capital accounting for
the major balance-sheet movements:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1955. 1956. 1957.
Pref. .. £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Ord. . . 2,086,029 2,086.241 2,436,241
Reserves .. 2,623,863 2,981,429 4,222,641
Plant replace-
ment .. 225,000 477,500 675,000
Outside interests 765,926 1,410,775 412,138
Notes, mortgage 1,460,625 1,460,625 1,350,000
Overdraft - . . 395,501 181,516 766,482
Creditors, etc. 2,468,700 2,543,062 1,958,838
Inter-co. balances 185,871
Final div. .. 290,450 290,478 350,897
£10,716,094 £11,831,626 £12,758,108
Freehold property,
etc 1,733,894 2,164,386 1,749,204
Plant, etc. .. 2,426,589 2,628,426 2,818,647
Shares, etc. .. 860,395 832,170 1,764,763
Stock . . . . 2.834,856 3,132,346 3,425,331
Debtors .. 2,273,560 2,283,402 2,690,660
Cash, etc. .. 109,097 7,295 6,945
Intangibles .. 477,708 783,601 302,558
£10,716,094 £11,831,626 £12,758,108
Orders have been placed for additional
printing-presses, and delivery of the first
two units is expected early this year.
Realisation of some of the “Argus” assets
should strengthen the liquid position
(although attempts to sell the main free-
hold have, as yet, been unsuccessful) and
the comfortable financial structure is un-
likely to be affected by the “staggering”’
cost of new plant.
The f.-p. ss. ords. have a net tangible
backing of 13s. 6d. (including plant-
replacement reserve) and at 245. lid.
would return £4 Os. 3d. p.c. from a 20
p.c. div.
Matthews, Thompson and Co., Ltd.
r F'HE 37-year-old Matthews, Thompson
A and Co., Ltd., ha& made steady
progress over the last three terms, thanks
-largely to the successful expansion of its
chain of self-service grocery-stores, a
record turnover in the year to June 30
last contributing to a, pleasing 16.3 p.c.
lift in net profit. Nevertheless, earnings,
as a percentage of paid capital, are no
more than moderate.
Originally a manufacturer and whole-
saler of grocery lines, Matthews, Thomp-
son acquired an interest in a string of
retail grocery-stores . in 1943, and
between 1950 and 1952 bought the issued
capitals of three large retail grocers—
Carlisles Pty., S. R. Buttle Pty. and
United Groceries, Ltd. (with its sub-
sidiary Goodlands Pty.), which between
them controlled over 270 stores. Over
the same period the co. also acquired a
number of country general-stores as well
as Crawford and Co. (Australasia) Pty.
(wine and spirit merchants), Savoy Nutri-
foods Pty. (manufacturers of macaroni,
spaghetti, etc.) and several smaller
organisations.
The group now consists of the parent
(a holding co.) and 36 subsidiaries, the
majority of which are interested in the
manufacture, distribution or retailing of
grocery and allied lines. The manu-
facturing offshoots have a small export-
market, but most of the co.’s business
is found in its home State, New South
Wales.
A two-for-five bonus-issue was made
in 1951, a three-for-five par-issue follow-
ing in the same year. Subsequent issues
of scrip in connection with the absorp-
tion of other cos. have raised paid capital
to £1,372,343. There are 10,000 £1 10
p.c. participating prefs. and 100,000 £1
5 p.c. prefs.
Earnings failed to keep pace with the
rapid growth of share-capital, and the
ord. div.-rate dropped from 12| p.c. to
8| p.c. in 1953 and, following the dis-
covery of irregularities in the accounts
of a subsidiary, to 4 1/6 p.c. in 1954.
Since then two distributions of 8| p.c.
have been made, and with the outlook
for shareholders somewhat brighter last
term, a 9 1/6 p.c. div. was declared.
A new factory was opened in Sydney
for Savoy Nutrifoods last year, but, in
general, the emphasis was on the con-
tinued development of the retail side of
the business, particularly the larger self-
service units. Turnover, approximately
£12,250,000 in 1956, approached the


£ 13,000,000-mark, and, although earnings
of the wholesale and country retail cos.
were below expectations, group profit
advanced by £22,833 to £162,954 after
providing £89,908 (down £11,536) for
taxation at current rates and £68,544 (up
£9983) for depreciation:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Dividends N To Re- Re-
June, Profit. —,, Ord. serves, serves.*
lSjp.c. sp.c. 13ip.e.
££££ £ - £
Assets revalued, £140,964 .. .. 340,137
Share premiums, £122,192 .. .. 462,329
Reserves capitalised, £201,530 .. 260,799
Capital profit, £32,756 .. .. 293,555
Share-issue expenses, £3750 . . .. 289,805
1951.. 726 2666 3333 97,674 35,053 324,858
12i p.c. 12Jp.c.
Net addition reserves, £BOI2 .. .. 332,870
1952.. 2499 5000 127,747 16,030 348,900
8J p.c. p.c.
Net addition reserves, £102,081 .. 450,981
1953.. 701 1667 -5000 103,561 452,508'
10 p.c. 4 1/6 p.c.
Net reduction reserves, £88,501 .. 364,007
1954.. 79,776 2000 5000 52,181 20,595 384,602
8-i p.c.
Addition reserves, £1331 .. .. 385.933
1955.. 125.311 2000 5000 104,361 13,950 399,883
Addition reserves, £1519 . . . . 401,402
1956.. 121 2000 5000 104,362 28,759 430,161
Profit sale assets, £11,837 .. .. 441,998
Addition reserves, £47 .. .. .. 442,045
9 1/6 p.c.
1957.. 162.954 2000 5000 114,798 41,156 483,201
* Subject to intangibles, £256,810 at 30/6/’57.
Best yet recorded, the profit covered
the pref. divs. and 12.3 p.c. on ord.
capital, compared with 10.6, 9.4, 5.8 and
8.3 p.c. in the four years back to 1953.
An additional £11,837 came from the
profitable sale of surplus real-estate.
The net addition to fixed assets, shown
at valuation, or cost, less depreciation,
was £117,156:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1955. 1956. 1957.
Pref £120,000 £120,000 £120,000
Ord 1,252,343 1,252,343 1,252,343
Reserves .. .. 399,883 430.161 483,201
Outside interests. . 150,000 150,000 200,000
Mortgages .. 228,509 426,704 412.555
Overdraft .... 725,284 796,793 910,448
Creditors, etc, .. 961,524 943,470 914,771
Final divs.'' 66,117 .66,117 66,117
£3,903,720 £4,185,588 £4,359,435
Freeholds .. 870,335 1,027,396 1,084,767
Leasehold .. .. 54,739 87,634 99,382-
Plant .. .. 618,602 695,115 743,152
Investments .. 4,166 1.772 1,635
Stock .. .. 1,530,635 1,511,158 1,563,946
Debtors .. .. 506,998 568,617 579,724
Cash, bonds .. 34,990 29,320 30,010
Intangibles .. 283,255 264,576 256,810
£3,903,720 £4,185,588 £4,359.435
The issue to the A.M.P. Society of
50,000 £1 7 p.c. prefs. in a subsidiary
increased the interest of outside share-
holders to £200,000 and, with an extra
£117,978 owing to the bank, there was
only 14s. lOd. in shareholders’ funds for
every £ of outside or minority share-
holders’ money at the end of the term.
None too plentiful, working-capital fell
by £20,362 to £282,353.
Sales for the first five months of the
current term are said to be “well in
excess” of those in the corresponding
period last year, and, although manu-
facturing-capacity may not be fully
utilised, maintenance of the improved
earnihg-rate is anticipated by the board.
Net tangible cover for the f.-p. ss.
ords. at June 30 last was ss. lid., the
scrip at ss. sd. returning £8 9s. 2d. p.c.
from a continued 9 1/6 p.c. div. or
£9 4s. 7d. p.c. from a 10 p.c. distribution.
The prefs. are rarely traded, the £20,000
of first prefs. sharing with the ords. in any
surplus after repayment of capital.
Rothmans of Pall Mall (Aust.), Ltd.
TN less than two years Rothmans has
-*■ captured for itself a sizeable slice of
what the co. describes .as the “quality-
price” trade in cigarettes, and can now
claim to be one of the two major
cigarette-producers in the country.
The cost of this achievement has been
considerable, and by June 30 last accumu-
lated losses, regarded as establishment
costs, totalled £418,582, another £43,302
going direct to the balance-sheet as
intangibles.
Spearhead of the co.’s successful attack
on the market has been a vigorous adver-
tising-campaign ; and turnover benefited
from the interest aroused in filter-tipped
cigarettes by the lung-cancer scare.
Sponsored by Rothmans, Ltd., of Lon-
don, the Australian co. was formed in
April, 1955, commencing production
later in that year at a modem plant in
the Sydney suburb of Granville.
The English co. took-up 250,000 £1
ords. for cash and received another
125,000 deferred £1 ords. in exchange
for the Australian rights to market
several well-known brands of cigarette.
A further 375,000 ords. were offered to
the public at par.
Working on the assumption that “no
cigarette-manufacturer will survive in
any market without sales in big volume,”
thp board, right from the start, preferred
to chase sales rather than earn limited
profits from a modest turnover.
As a result of this policy, and the good
reception given the co.’s products, pro-
duction has lagged behind demand, and
“abnormal costs” were incurred last term
in attempts to boost output. The loss
for the year, after providing £46,762 (up
£34,407) for depreciation, was £222,362,
£26,142 more than in the preceding
term:
To Re-
June, Loss. Dividend , sgryes. Deficit.*
£ p.c. £ £ £
Goodwill, etc., £125,616 .. .. 125.616
Preliminary expenses, etc., £43,301.. 168,917
1956 .. 196,220 365,137
.1957 .. 222,362 587,499
* Includes intangibles.
Sales have been stepped-up to a rate
currently in excess of £12,000,000 a year,
and a profit of £37,832 is claimed for the
four months to October last, with the
board confidently anticipating future
earnings of £20,000 a month (before tax).
The co. has leaned heavily on its
•English sponsor for finance, and last term
increased its indebtedness in that direc-
tion by £515,734, at the same time adding
£532,187 to the amount owing to sundry
creditors:
Paid capital— ' 1956. 1957.
Old. .. £625,000 £625,000
Deferred .. .. .. 125,000 125,000
Due to associated cos. ~ 73,513 589,247
Overdraft .. .. .. 398,804 389,613
'Creditors, etc. ~ .. .. 05,818 628,005
£1,318,135 £2,356,805
Freeholds 2 197,279 253,148
Plant 270,655 504,488
Investments .. .. .. 2 329
Stock 394,448 722,454
Book-debts 72,921 282,087
Cash .. .643 656
Prepayments and deferred
expenditure . . .. 17,050 6,203
Intangibles .. .. .. 365,137 587,500
£1,318,135 £2,356,865
The directors “intend to review the finan-
cial structure of the c 0.,” the assurance
that “Australian shareholders will have
the opportunity to retain their 50 p.c.
interest” indicating that the capitalisation
of part of the overseas debt and a cash-
issue to shareholders are contemplated
when the div.-paying stage is reached.
Having collared somewhere around
15 p.c. of the market, the co.’s r task is now
to hold (and if possible improve) its
position in the face of intense competition
from its main rival, the big and powerful
British Tobacco Co. (Aust.), Ltd., which
sells roughly three-quarters of the
cigarettes made in Australia. Its chances
of doing this seem reasonably good.
The deferred shares rank after the ords.
for return of capital, the articles providing
that the deferment period shall expire
after taxed profits have equalled or
exceeded 10 p.c. of paid capital for a
period of three years.
At the end of last term the f.-p. £1
ords. had a net tangible backing of a little
over 9s. 2d., the sharemarket pricing the
scrip at par as against 17s. 3d. a year ago.
William Crosby (Holdings), Ltd.
A RECORD profit is disclosed in the
latest accounts from William Crosby
(Holdings), Ltd., a higher return from
both trading and investments lifting net
earnings by over 29 p.c.
Founded in Hobart over 100 years ago,
the shipping-and-agency business con-
trolled by the co. was later extended to
cover a number of manufacturing and
merchandising interests.
Registered in Victoria in 1954,
William Crosby (Holdings) exchanged
370,000 £1 ords. for the £lOO,OOO paid
capital of William Crosby and Co. Pty.,
and shortly afterwards offered a further
130,000 £1 ords. to the public at par. A
one-for-five par issue late in 1955 brought
in £112,000, paid capital reaching its
present total (£756,000) with the issue of
84,000 ords. as consideration for assets
in Tasmania and West Australia. The
div.-rate has been steady at 8| p.c. since
formation.
Although the co. now has a wide
range of interests (throughout Australia),
many of its activities stem from the early
association *with shipping. Three of its
eight subsidiaries are shipping-, insurance-
or Customs-agents and another a
stevedoring contractor, while the parent’s
substantial investment-portfolio includes
scrip in stevedoring, salvage and ship-
repairing cos. Subsidiaries are afso
engaged in the merchandising of building-
materials, the export of fruit, chrome-
plating, engineering and the production
of concrete building-materials and blue-
prints, etc.
All the subsidiaries operated profitably
last term (to June 30), and, although
difficult trading conditions in Westralia
and Tasmania reduced earnings won in
those States, higher returns from the
Victorian and N.S.W. offshoots left the
consolidated (pre-tax) trading profit
£ll,OOl stronger at £89,302. Income
from divs., rent, etc., jumped by over
46 p.c. (£7283) to £22,830 to give a


mm
*
mmm
m
How
about my
ASSiAtZANCtJ
Remind Dad about a Child's
Advancement Policy. A small premium will look after
my education or launch me on a career.
"The Metropolitan" has a number of suitable policies.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD. <■«• >■ »
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY. BW806I
group net profit of £74,518
(up £16,966):
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Re-
June, Profit. f —Dividends— > serves.*
1954. . 59,730 f .8* p.c. = 33,542 7,885
Less prelitn. exp., £5967.. 1,918
Tax overprovided, £737 .. 2,655
Pre-acquisition profits,
£591% 8,567
Reduction intangibles, £3255 11,822
1955. . 62,442 8* p.c. = 46,667 27,597
Tax overprovided, £2405 .. 30,002
Share-premiums, £BOOO . . 38,002
Added intangibles, £11,971.. 26,031
Share-issue exp., £l5ll .. 24,520
1956.. 57.552 8J p.c. = 51,500 30,572
Share-premiums, £583 .. 31,155
Tax underprovided, £1132.. 30,023
Less adjustment minority
interest, £385 .. .. 29,638
Add reduction intangibles,
£246 29.884
1957.. 74,518 8* p.c. = 56,333 48,069
* After deducting intangibles. f Five
months only for parent co.
Reckoned providing an
extra £l3lB for taxation
(£37,614) and £19,573 (up
£6358) for depreciation, the
profit represented a return of
9.9 p.c. on share-capital (9.1
p.c. in 1956 and 11.6 p.c. in
1955) and 9.1 p.c. on average
shareholders’ funds.
Scrip to a face-value of
£BO,OOO, issued in the 1956
term, will participate in divs.
for the first time in the current
year, so that an additional
£6667 (£63,000 altogether) will
be needed to cover an 8! p.c.
div. (Last term was the first
time that earnings have
exceeded £63,000.)
Commenting on the balance-
sheet at the annual meeting, the
chairman pointed out that
changes in trading methods
were largely responsible for
the fluctuations in current
assets and current liabilities
(particularly the increases in
stock, creditors and overdraft).
These changes “have since
been automatically adjusted,”
the £54,547 drop in working-
capital (£150,797) being of a
temporary nature:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1956. £1957.
Paid capital .. £756,000 £756.000
Reserves .. 51,679 68,930
Minority interest 6,725 8.254
Mortgage . . 139,500 138,500
Notes and deposits 84,383 48,000
Overdraft . . 97,651 144,367
Creditors .. 139.857 194,559
Tax-provision .. 43,122 37.621
Final div. .. 51,500 56,333
£1,370,417 £1,452,564
Freeholds ! . 515,532 535,297
Plant, etc. . . 132,846 140,248
Shares other cos. 155,258 161,011
Stock . . . . 303,825 394,045
Debtors .. 233,145 192,488
Cash, bonds, etc. 8,704 8.614
Intangibles . . 21,107 20,861
£1,370,417 £1,452,564
Unsecured 7 p.c. notes, totalling
£84,383, issued in the preced-
ing term as part-consideration
for the share - capital of
Frank Hammond Pty. (Tas-
manian cartage-contractor and
Customs - agent), were re-
deemed during the year,
although not due for repay-
ment for some years, the co.
at the same time accepting
£48,000 on long-term deposit.
There is still little in the way
of tangible reserves, and this
fact, coupled with the moderate
earning-rate, makes chances of
a bigger div. in the next year
or two rather slim.
Consolidated accounts at
June 30, 1957, gave the f.-p.
£1 ords. a net tangible backing
of 21s. 2d., the scrip at 20s. sd.
returning £8 3s. 3d. from an
8! p.c. div.
East African Coffee Planta-
tions, Ltd.
TffIGH world prices of coffee
in recent years have given
rise to much consumer-criticism,
but, taken over a period,
plantation - development has
shown investors a modest over-
all return considering the risks
associated with tropical agri-
culture.
Typical of the industry is
East African Coffee Planta-
tions, which was promoted in
Victoria in 1928 with an issued
capital of £150,000 in £1 ords.
to purchase and develop coffee
and tea estates in the upland
Nandi and Kiambu districts of
Kenya. In all, 8500 acres were
acquired, partly freehold and
partly on a 99-year lease.
Before the trees had become
revenue-producing, the world
coffee-market collapsed, and the
the co. found itself desperately
short of working-capital and
saddled with liabilities. In
1933, 10s. a share was jettisoned,
and shareholders injected
£15,000 pref.-capital into the
business to protect their invest-
ment.
The post-war years brought
a marked -rmprovement. By
1949, liabilities of £23,850,
deferred since the depression,
and ten years’ arrears of pref.-
dividends had been wiped off
the slate, while'the long drought
for equity-shareholders was
broken by a 7 p.d. distribution.
Devaluation of sterling in
September, 1949, brought
much-needed relief to sterling-
area planters. Prices doubled
overnight and profits began to
soar. Since then, the market
for African coffee has settled
down, but remains firm, despite
Brazil’s devaluation in 1955.
Brazil, with two-thirds of the
world crop, dominates market-
ing, but does not compete
directly with the higher-grade
East African product.
An eight-years prosperity-
cycle has enabled the original
stake to be restored by a one-
for-one bonus-issue in 1950,
and shareholders received
further handouts of gift-scrip
in Dec., 1954 (two-for-one), and
Dec., 1956 (one-for-two), all
financed from asset-revalu-
ations. Meanwhile, preference
scrip was converted to ordinary
stock (Dec., 1950). Equity-
capital now stands at £BlO,OOO,
supported by a reserve-backing
of £252,208.
All amounts shown are in
Australian currency:
1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £540,000 £BlO,OOO
Reserves . . . . 237,169 252,208
Staff fund .. 3,805
Creditors ... .. 15,153 11,764
Tax provision .. 56,730 44,989
Dividends.. 87,750 87,750
£936,802 £1,206,711
Freeholds, lease-
holds. buildings 554,173 825,493
Plant, livestock, etc. 48,025 58,587
Plantation develop-
ment .. .. 174,077 202,642
Stock . . . . 11,859 18,036
Debtors .. .. 27,905 15,943
Shares . . . . 3,993 3,117
Cash, bonds, etc... 116,770 86,698
£936,802 £1,206,711
Independent revaluations
account for most of the post-
war increase in the book-value
of fixed assets, now £1,086,722,
but over £200,000 has been out-
laid on equipment, quarters and
the tea developmental pro-
gramme, including a te.a-pro-
cessing plant. Depreciation is
a minor quantity.
Net earnings from trading at
£102,913 were £8953 higher
after providing for Kenya
Colony taxation (unstated) and
depreciation, £5450. Lower
coffee deliveries were com-
pensated by the removal in
June, 1956, of the 124 p.c.
export-tax, a special levy to
help combat the Mau Mau
emergency. In the two years
of its existence, the tax had
reduced net earnings by
£46,660:
Re-
May, Profit, / Dividends serves.
31. £ £ £
Loss sale investments, £1520 193,369
1952.. 97,070 32* p.c. =58,500 191,849
Loss sale investments, £4256 187,593
Unexp. reduction, £32 .. 187,561
1958.. 66,288 27* p.c. =49,500 204,349
Loss sale investments, £1231 203,118
LTnexp. reduction, £l4B .. 202,970
1954.. 37* p.c. =67,500 201,040
Assets revalued, £360,000 .. 561,040
Revaluation reserves capital-
ised, £360.000 .. .. 201,040
Unexp. reduction, £136 .. 200,904
1955.. 254 16*' p.c. =87,750 234,408
Loss sale investments, £3179 231,229
1956.. 16* p.c. =87,750 237,169
Assets revalued, £270,000.. 507,169
Revaluation reserves capital-
ised, £270,000 .. .. 237,169
* Written-off investments, £124 237,045
1957.. 102.913 10 4/5p.e.=87,750 252,208
During the term, coffee prices
eased slightly at the Nairobi
auctions, but about £5OO a ton
was received on the average
from a slightly lower crop of
348| tons. Prices paid by the
Coffee Marketing Board ranged
from £590 a ton for the highest


CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
t Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
grades to £152 a ton for glean-
ings.
Tea prices continued very
firm after reaching a peak
during the Suez crisis, and
4s. 6d. a lb. was averaged from
the 103,2181 b. of black-tea
processed in the co.’s own plant.
In all, 543,6101 b. of green leaf
was produced, of which
85,1581 b. was sold for outside
processing.
The current term opened
favorably. Forward coffee sales
eased at first, then firmed, prices
in June averaging £519 a ton.
Cultivated acreage is being
slowly expanded, and this
year’s crop is estimated at 380
tons, despite hailstorm damage
and the inroads of the fungus
coffee-berry disease.
The co.’s immediate future in
Kenya seems well - assured,
although the “white highlands”
question remains the source of
much discontent. European
settlement is firmly established
in the colony, whose limited
economy is largely tied to
coffee, easily the chief export.
Firmly priced at 15s. 3d.,
E.A.C.’s 10s. stock-units would
return a yield of 7.2 p.c. from
the latest div.-rate, now 10.8 p.c.
Net tangible assets backing is
13s. Id. for each 10s. stock-
unit.
Oil Drilling and Exploration
A STEADY flow of contract-
work for West Australian
Petroleum Pty. (Wapet) last
term gave Oil Drilling and
Exploration, Ltd., a chance to
recover some of the ground
lost in the 1956 term, the co.
and its three subsidiaries
turning-in a net profit of
£26,526 after providing £75,461
(down £11,166) for deprecia-
tion. Contract-drilling was
also carried out for Associated
Freney Oil Fields, N.L., and
South Pacific Pty.
The O.D.E. group of com-
panies ran up a loss of £55,815
in the year to June 30, 1956.
Sale of the Brewster N 55
rig to Timor' Oil, Ltd'., for
£126,000 (£76,000 in cash and
£50,000 in Timor Oil scrip)
released part of the capital
tied-up in costly drilling-
equipment, but as most of the
work done for Wapet involved
the supply of labor only, the
full employment of the three
remaining O.D.E. rigs was —
and still is, apparently —some-
thing of a problem.
In the current term the co.
has sold 80,000 of the 200,000
ss. shares originally held in
Timor Oil “in order to recoup
in cash the balance of the
purchase-price of the drilling-
rig.” As contracts at present
available do not warrant
replacement of the plant sold,
the board proposes- to return
3d. per f.-p-. ss. share, reducing
paid capital by £63 ; 613 to
£1,271,726.
Formed as a drilling- and
prospecting-contractor in 1954,
O.D.E. holds interests (rang-
ing from 20 p.c. to 36 p.c.) in
oil-prospecting permits cover-
ing areas in the Maryborough,
Ipswich, Mackay and Brisbane
districts of Queensland. How-
ever, as the co.’s resources are
inadequate to finance a large
outlay on exploration, its
immediate f objective is the
consolidation of its position in
the oil-drilling field.
At June 30 last, current
assets (£396,285, including
£114,099 in stores) exceeded
liabilities by £305,248, with
investments, mainly Timor Oil
scrip (at par), figuring at
£50,087. The cost-ZesA-deprecia-
tion value of fixed assets was
£546,502, another £316,302
being represented by interests
in concessions. Intangibles
added-up to £59,129, against
reserves of £7360.
Current drilling - contracts
(with Wapet and Timor Oil)
are on a labor-only basis, but
inquiries received suggest, to
the board, that “further con-
tracts may be available to the
co. in the near future.” The
Federal Government’s deci-
sion to grant financial assist-
ance to oil-prospectors may
help to increase demand for
the co.’s services.
Court approval of the
capital-reduction may riot be
obtained for several months,
owing to the lengthy legal
vacation, the sharemarket
meanwhile pricing the f.-p. ss.
units at 2s. 2d.
Eldorado Tennant Creek
■pURTHER examination of a
new orebody locked by
Northern Territory goldminer
Eldorado Tennant Creek, Ltd.,
has brightened-up the co.’s
prospects. Shareholders at last
month’s annual meeting were
told that “what amounts to a
new mine” might emerge from
a continuation of the orebody.
It is estimated that at least
17,000 tons of ore, averaging
not less than lOdwt. a ton, has
actually been blocked-out. By
blending the new ore with the
150,000 tons of available lower-
grade ore, the co. expects to
handle—on a profitable basis
—approximately 600 tons of
ore a week “for some years.”
Eldorado issued 668,000 2s.
shares at par last October (two-
for-three), increasing paid capi-
tal to £159,818. The new funds
were needed to strengthen
finances, somewhat depleted by-
operating-losses, and to cover
the cost of development-work
and new plant. The last div.,
9d. a share, was paid in June,
1956.
The 2s. shares currently fetch
around 2s. sd.
Tableland Tin Dredging
YX/ORKING for part of last
” term (to June 30) through
an area “of low value and
extreme hardness,” Tableland
Tin suffered a net loss of
£29,006. Two stoppages, for
modifications and repairs to the
dredge, halted dredging opera-
tions for a total of 20 days.
Both ord. and pref. divs. were
passed, ord.-shareholders miss-
ing-out for the fifth time in
seven years. (Ord. divs. of 8
p.c. and 13 p.c. were sent out in
1955 and 1956 respectively.)
Dredging at Smith’s Creek,
Mt. Garnet (Q.), the co.
handled 2,973,830 cubic yards
(down 241,404 c.y.) last term
lor a recovery of 544 tons
(down 244 tons) tin concen-
trates assaying 69.83 p.c. (down
1.1 p.c.) metallic tin:
1956. 1957.
Hours worked .. 7,082 7,118
Cub. yds. treated.. 3,215,284 2,973,830
Area dredged
(acres) .. 62.614 42.267
Ore recovered
(tons) .. .. 788 544
Av. assay (p.c.) . . 70.93 69.83
Ore-yield cub. yd.
(oz.) '.. '.. 8.78 6.56
Costs cub. yd.
(pence) . . . . 22.153 26.764
Working costs per yard were
4.611 pence higher at 26.764
pence, but a saving in power
costs is expected in the current
term as a result of the switch
from co.-g enerated to
Electricity Board power.
The price of metallic tin
slipped from £982 a ton to £953
a ton over the year, and, with
the lower throughput, total
income fell by £141,581 to
£331,961:
Jne., Income. Exes. Profit. Divs.*
£££ „ £
W/oft dredge a/c, £20,000. .
’s4t. 263,871 181,665 82,206 25,600
W/off dredge a/c, £30,000. . 8 p.c.
’55..388,703 314,233 74,470 35,200
W/off dredge a/c. £50,000.. 13 p.c.
’56.. 473,552 340,042 133,510 57,200
Royalties overprovided, £6384
Loss.
’57.. 331,971 360,977 29,006
* Rate shown is for ords., but amount
also includes divs. paid on 8 p.c. cum.
participating prefs. and deferreds.
t Eight months.
The £29,006 loss was calculated
after providing £2875 for
depreciation and £15,900 for
the next replacement of the
bucket-band.
The lower income forced the
co. to “seek the forbearance
of its bankers and guarantors”
in relation to repayments of a
State-guaranteed loan, and
deferments were obtained. At
balance-date current assets,
excluding a £44,000 pref.-share
reserve fund, totalled £84,652,
and liabilities £204,454. The
£lBO,OOO loan account, the
major liability, is repayable in
half-yearly instalments over the
next three years.
Some years ago the available
yardage at Smith’s Creek was
estimated to be enough to keep
the dredge in operation until
1964-65.
The co.’s financial position
has improved “considerably”
in the current term, 321 tons of
tin oxide being produced up to
November 19, 1957, compared
with 134 tons in a similar
period of the preceding, year.
Tin prices, however, have
shown no tendency to rise from
their present low level.
The £326,000 paid capital is
in 240,000 £1 f.-p. ords., 120,000
Is. deferred ords. and 80,000 £1
8 p.c. participating pfefs.
Buyers are currently offering
19s. for the ords. (against
sellers’ 225. 6d.), the prefs.
bringing around 255.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
incorporated in buy land
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
LERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
“The shortage [of good
managers] is both more notice-
able and more noticed than in
the past. But all too often it is
noticed too late —when a man
needs replacing quickly and no
one good enough gan be
found.”
This problem is most serious
for the large industrial com-
panies according to a . booklet,
“Managers for Tomorrow,”
prepared by the Acton Society
Trust, which conducted a
sample survey of 51 of the 65
privately-owned companies in
Britain with a payroll of
10,000 or more.
That recruitment is inten-
sively competitive is all too
clear by the pages of advertise-
tnents in the better papers.
(One company recently spent
£5OOO on advertising for quali-
fied engineers, receiving 977
replies and interviewing 96 ;
but only 20 were suitable,
though more were needed.)
Some companies have talent-
scouts who tour the universities,
interviewing third-year under-
graduates. More and more are
cultivating sixth-form leavers
at the grammar-schools. Some
employers prefer these boys to
graduates, considering them
“less conceited, more adaptable
and more willing to learn.”
What qualities are needed?
Mentioned are “ability plus
intellectual resilience, tough-
ness, determination, decisive yet
inquiring minds, moral
courage,” and in general
demand “acceptability to
colleagues and ability to give
and take advice gracefully.”
These two qualities, the
booklet remarks, are “very
different from those that dis-
tinguished the pioneers of these
enterprises, and they reflect
both the difference in function
between founding a company
and administering it when it
has become large, and the
difference in industrial climate
between the nineteenth-century
and today. Even so, there is
a danger today of wanting
managers to conform too much
to the group.” In plainer
language, too many yes-men?
Strangely, little mention is
made of leadership or
man - management, but the
researchers took a carefully-
chosen sample of 411 employees
up to the level of foremen.
Most were “very interested” in
promotion, but in principle
rather than in practice (because
of higher security and the
shrinkage of wage-differentials
supervisory jobs have become
less attractive). Workers on
the whole preferred the quiet
person who knew his job to
the would-be manager, articu-
late and self - confident*
qualities they tended to regard
as “cheek” —and suspected the
public-schoolboy, not recognis-
ing his reputed capacity for
leadership.
At present rather more than
half of all managers (average
age 46) are self-made, coming
from humble homes and lack-
ing secondary education. But
the pattern is changing. The
trend is toward the better-
educated, and the chances of
“getting on” will depend
increasingly upon the first
20-25 years of a man’s
life. An interesting fact is that,
in the top jobs, qualified
accountants and secretaries are
in the majority over engineers
and other professional men.
The booklet includes a com-
parative survey of similar
concerns in the U.S.A. and
affirms that several American
observers consider that British
companies are probably not
behind their American counter-
parts.
The main distinction seems
to be that “m anagement
science” has become something
of a fad in the U.S.A., which
is not as far ahead as its
literature suggests, while
British directors are “more
cautious and less formal” in
approach. ♦
But the American companies
are better experienced in staff-
relations, notably between an
officer and his subordinates,
and take great trouble in
ensuring that subordinates
know where they stand, thus
avoiding much of the frustra-
tion endemic in British
organisations.
Haymarket Success
Robert Bolt, a 33-year-old
West Country schoolmaster, is
fortunate in springing to
success with a new play at
London’s premier theatre. He
deserves his success, for
“Flowering Cherry” is a much
better play than some of its
predecessors. Many of these
were synthetic affairs, lacking
real substance, which served
merely as vehicles for our lead-
ing actors to show their paces.
“Flowering Cherry” has two
splendid virtues: it is based on
life (which it reflects purpose-
fully), and it is a thoroughly
workmanlike job. The theme is
the degradation of Jim Cherry,
an insurance-salesman of farm-
ing stock, and an utter failure.
We see Cherry going down-
hill with grim certainty, gather-
ing momentum all the while.
Sacked from his job, he tells
his wife that he’s resigned ; he
agrees to apologise to his boss
and pretends to be re-engaged,
ostensibly keeping business
hours, but in fact killing time
shiftlessly with bar-lounging
and self-pity. A confirmed
self-deceiver, he lives in
fantasies, with the ultimate
ideal of a fruit-orchard in
Somerset. And, to prove that
he is really a strong man, from
time to time he bends a poker
by hands alone.
At a frightful meal with his
family and a young guest, he
crowns a heady orgy of boast-
fulness by reciting “Henry V,”
until his wife, screaming-
distraught, rushes outside
beyond self-control: —a very
strong “curtain,” too.
Thenceforward degradation
is complete. He tipples gin,
steals from his wife’s purse
and lets suspicion fall on his
son. His wife, wishing above
all else to believe in him, pro-
vides the opportunity for him
to have his orchard. He then
funks the issue. The lifetime
ambition was but a rationalisa-
tion of his ineptitude, an
illusion which, like Hjalmar
Ekdal, he did not want to be
shattered. The play then
marches to a tragic, if heavily
melodramatic, conclusion, with
surging background music and
a transformation scene (Somer-
set apple-blossom).
One witness at least would
have preferred a curb on the
histrionics. The play, an
emotional one, is grossly over-
written, while the production
is feverishly overintensified,
according to current fashion.
This is a qualification rather
than a criticism. The play can
stand this treatment, and is, in
fact, quite originalthere is no
obvious derivation from Ibsen
or from that other tragic sales-
man, Willie Loman. The first
of the two acts is the better.
Here the story is built-up
impressionistically. In the
second act the mechanics of
the stolen poynd-notes take up
too much time; we might,
too, have been spared the gin-
bottle, the last tumbling
descent on the Road to Ruin.
Cherry is insufferable, win-
ning sympathy only as a
“case.” But his downfall sub-
tends a real and poignant
tragedy in its repercussion on
his wife. Isobel Cherry is
affectionate, trusting, emotional,
hopeful, easily upset by
domestic conflict, unambitious
except for contentment and
passionately yearning for atten-
tion, security and love. Here,
on the stage, is eternal woman.
Where most of the great
dramatists have failed Mr.
Bolt triumphantly succeeds.
Isobel transcends.
Ralph Richardson’s Jim is
in keeping with the production.
He is bluff, accented and
emphatic, making no attempt at
factual characterisation, but
keeping to the broad lines ; he
is effectively and poignantly
seedy and always magnificent,
even when shameless. Isobel
is so much a Celia Johnson
part that it might have been
written for her. But this is not
to belittle a performance of
high distinction and supremacy,
not only for wifeliness but also
for breaking restraint, quiver-
ing hope and, not least,
amazing technical finesse.
An effective counter-theme
is the conflict between parents
and youth, most truly
portrayed in contemporary
idiom.


Building a War
Service Home
By OLIVER FILTER
JOHN STEPHEN S’S
account, in The Bulletin,
of his disastrous experience
in building a house through
War Service Homes Division
(Melbourne) made very sad
reading indeed. It also
frightened the wits out of me.
At the time that I read it we
were in the early stages of
building a place through War
Service (Sydney), and the
thought of Mr. Stephens’s
experience also befalling me
kept me nights.
Fortunately, we’ve had quite
the opposite experience—noth-
ing but efficient co-operation
from War Service and a com-
paratively smooth run all the
W'ay considering that ours was
a wild proposition from the
start.
There are three main people
concerned in building a house
(the owner doesn’t matter) and
I suppose there’s an element of
luck in picking them. They are
architect, builder, and who-
ever’s willing to lend you the
dough. Since all names men-
tioned hereafter are fair
dmkum, and good on ’em, the
trio in our case were Ronald
Bates, Brennan Brothers and
War Service Homes, plus the
bank (National) and my wife,
who saves money faster than I
can spend it, which is saying
pl en ty_
w ' . . , , ~ ,
We started under the usual
disadvantages of never having
built a house before and not
having enough dough to build
one anyway. These were minor
ones however The major
h rdle was our building-site, a
ovely hunk of land which leaps
“" d . tum . b ' es m , a cascad t e o£
locks and trees to a waterfront
» ,cltso£
Sydney Harbor. It even
includes a gully, a creek and
’ _
The Bulletin, January \, 1958
waterfall. The only trouble was
that you couldn’t get near it
except by falling, jumping or
scrambling your way down the
30ft. cliff which runs right
across the top of it.
People who stood at the'top
of the cliff, or who climbed
down and panted out again,
admitted that it was-a nice bit
of land and a wonderful view,
but that anyone who wanted to
live there was plain bats.
We were bats.
To prove it, we humped
enough materials over the cliff
and down the gully to build a
cabin by the creek. That much
achieved—in rather longer than
it takes to tell—-we began to
think about building a house.
We arranged for a builder to
inspect the site. He stood at the
top of the cliff and looked
down.
“You’re bats,” he said, not
unkindly.
We tried another builder,
who was slightly more co-
operative. He said he’d build
lor us on the site we wanted,
but that it would cost a cold
thousand quid extra just to get
the materials in. He was bats
to think we might have had
that sort of money.
We had much the same
experience with a couple of
“lending authorities” they
both looked over the cliff and
said, in effect, “no security in
that.”
Then someone recommended
War Service Homes. We
weren’t very hopeful. ’We’d
heard that the queue was so
long that Boer War veterans
were still waiting to get to the
head of it. We’d also heard
that War Service was even
more expert than the Army in
the art of mucking about.
Dabsters at it. in fact.
Nothing of the kind.
There was no waiting at the
counter and, to the bloke
behind it, I said the obvious t
“1 want to build a house.”
“This is where you start,” /he
said, pushing the inevitable
foEms at me.
“There are some problems.”
“Worry when you get to
them. Fill those in now.”
We did. “What happens
now?”
“If you’re eligible for a loan,
we’ll inspect your property.
You’ll hear from us in due
course.”
Pleasant, but not very
encouraging. We went home
to the gully and wondered how
many months, or years, it
would be. It was less than a
month, I reckon, before a
pleasant cove ambled down
through the trees and said
“War Service.” Then, after a
look around, “A good place to
live.”
“You don’t think we’re
bats?”
“Would be if you left this,”
he said.
A cup of tea. “Got any
family?” he asked.
“One.”
“Should have half-a-dozen
kids in a place like this,” he
said.
“House first.” Firmly.
“Don’t waste time,” he said.
“The house’ll be ready.”
We didn’t trust his know-
ledge of building times or
obstetrics, but at least he was
enthusiastic.
LESS than a fortnight later
we had a letter from War
Service telling us we had
“accelerated priority” and to
make up our minds whether we
wanted a War Service plan and
their supervision, or whether we
wanted our own design. We
had a plan of our own and
asked them if they’d supervise
the building of it. We were
told—and I gathered it was
important—that it is better to
have your own architect if you
are not building to a W.S,
plan.
Architect? We didn’t know
any and more-or-less picked
one out of a hat Ronald
Bates. Telephone, appointment,
and next day we’re sitting in his
studio or office—or both.
Architects are like lawyers—
you should tell ’em the worst.
We went through the
preliminaries, told him we had
a War Service loan coming up,
and less dough of our own than
a bus-conductor makes in tips
after midnight.
He inspected the site next
day, selected the best possie
and asked me if I had any ideas
about getting materials in. I
told him, with a casual confid-
ence that 1 didn’t feel, that I’d
thought of rustling up a few
blokes and lugging everything,
including a nine-gallon, over
the cliff by hand.
“Why not a flying-fox?” he
suggested.
“Who?”
“A flying-fox. If you pegged
a cable into the top of the
cliff and down and over this
tree you should be able to run
everything down on it.”
“What size cable?”
“Depends on the load. Say
four-hundred pounds.” He
squinted towards the cliff, then
at the tree, and then murmured
some mysterious mathematical
incantations to himself. Then:
“A one-and-a-half-inch wire
icpe should do the job.”
“That’s as thick as my
wrist! ”
He explained that ropes are
measured by circumference,
not diameter, and that a lfin.
lope would be about as thick
as my finger.
There were a few more
points to be discussed before
he departed to prepare plans.
I looked at my finger and
thought of 4001 b. . . . two big
men . . . four bags of cement.
1 went to sleep that night
imagining baths, stoves, etc.,
crashing down into the gully.
Morning, and I said to my wife,
“This Batesy seems a nice
bloke, but I’m going to find out
a bit more about flying-foxes.”
There was, I’d heard, a
Government department which
knew all about such things. I
lang the Government exchange
and asked for the flying-fox
department.
A man’s voice: “Hullo?”
“Could you give me some


information about flying-
loxes?” I asked him.
“They’re bats,” he said.
I neafly said, “And bats to
you, sport,” but remained
discreetly silent until I
discovered I was speaking to
the Department of Agriculture.
Eventually I found my way to
the Department of Scaffolding
and Lifts and struck up with a
particularly helpful cove—a big
bloke with a jaw like a shovel
and hands like spanners.
“I want to put up a flying-
fox,” I told him, with details.
“We call ’em standing lines,”
he said. “They’re quite simple.
You multiply the span in feet
by the load in pounds and
divide by four times the sag
and add two-and-a-half times
ihe weight of the cable.”
I thought that George
Wallace at the Tiv. could have
brought the house down with a
line like that. Then the bloke
took pity on me, made a rough
sketch and some rapid
calculations.
“You’ll need a one-and-a-
half-inch wire rope for your
job,” he said.
Batesy, you little beaut!
Followed the buying of
wire rope, blocks and other
gear ; the boring and blasting
of rock and cementing-in of
steel pegs ; trial and error and
trial again. It seemed that I’d
hardly had time to spit before
a letter arrived from War
Service asking, in effect, where
in hell were the plans and
specifications and tenders and
all that sort of thing. This from
a department allegedly slow off
the mark.
Rush to Bates for plans and
specs., rush to local council for
approval, rush to Water Board
for ditto. Bates meanwhile
calling for tenders, and then
builders arriving to inspect site.
One of them just stood at the
cliff-top and said something
that sounded suspiciously like
“Bats” before he departed with-
out inspecting the site. Another
looked long at the flying-fox
and at me. “The contract is for
you to get the materials in?” he
asked.
“That’s right,” I said with as
much confidence as I could
raise.
“And it’s a War Service
job?”
“Yes.”
“They’d do better to back
horses,” he said.
I didn’t quite know what he
meant, but I felt depressed.
About six builders, however,
did go down and inspect the
site and, soon afterwards, their
tenders began to come in. The
highest scared hell out of us,
and the lowest looked like
impractical optimisjn. The
architect suggested the most
reasonable one and we sent it,
along with plans, specs., etc., to
War Service. Then back to the
flying-fox. There was still
plenty to do when, with almost
devastating promptness, War
Service wrote saying the plans
were passed, the dough was
ready, and that we could start
immediately.
(These were by no means the
only contacts with War Service
—there were letters and visits
over routine and 'incidental
matters, and in every case we
found them efficient and help-
ful. At no stage were we ever
kept waiting ; more often than
not they were waiting on us. In
dealing with War Service the
important thing would seem to
be to do what you’re asked, and
exactly that. They’ve got their
routine—they’ve got to have it
—and, as in the Army, if you
try to buck the system you’re
only asking for trouble.)
The tender we’d accepted
came from Brennan Brothers —
Kevin, brisk and businesslike ;
The Outlook
Bernie, big, cheerful, hustling.
Kevin had come down to
inspect before tendering and I
remembered being rather
cheered by the way he’d taken
in the cliff and the flying-fox
as though they were nothing
unusual whatever.
I passed on the War Service’s
go-ahead to the Brennans and
they said they’d whiz in a load
of timber and give me a few
days to get it down the hill. I
came home a few nights later
and stood like a hypnotised
chook surveying what looked
like enough timber for six
houses. Most of it was eight-
by-two hardwood in 30ft.
lengths. I went down to the
cabin and told my wife: “It’s
hopeless; I’ll never get it
down.”
“It’ll look better in the morn-
ing,” she said.
I went up the hill about
9 a.m. Someone had been in
with the sparrows and left
another load, as big as, if not
bigger than, the first.
The suspicion that there
might be yet another truckload
lurking in the bush startled me
into action.
A word about the flying-fox.
I’d set up a hardwood post on
the top of the cliff and stayed
it back to two steel bars driven
three feet into the rock. From
the post the cable swooped like
a silver thread on a one-in-nine
grade for about 300 ft. before
disappearing into the trees
below. At the lower end it
passed over a fork in a large
angophora and thence to a
stump which, in turn, was
stayed back to a couple more
bars driven into the rock.
A pulley, or block, with a
heavy hook on it, ran on the
cable. It was controlled by
about 400 ft. of rope which,
passed around the post a couple
of times, enabled me to check
the speed of the loads going
down.
The stack of timber was
about 30ft. from the top of
the flying-fox. I dragged the
first length of hardwood under
the cable, slung two ropes
around it and hoisted it up to
the main block by means of a
light block-and-tackle appro-
priately called a “handy billy,”
Then I pulled on a pair of
leather gloves and released the
check rope.
The load whirred down the
cable above the trees, the birds
rose from the branches in noisy
protest and the check rope ran
through my fingers and hissed
around the hardwood post.
Suddenly I smelt fire and saw
smoke rising. I thought the
rope was burning, but there
wasn’t much I could do until
the load reached the bottom.
Then I discovered that the rope
was unmarked, but around the
hardwood post there was a
deep charred weal. It was a
timely warning of what a
running rope can do, and I
never forgot it.
1 went down the gully,
unloaded the first sling, then
climbed out again to pull back
the check rope and block for
the next load. I repeated the
performance from dawn to
dusk for five days, and at the
end of it the building-site
looked like a timberyard. I had
just enough steam left to ring
the builder and tell him it was
all down.
THEY arrived —six of them
—a couple of days later.
For some reason I still retained
the traditional idea of builders
as rather stolid characters who
phlegmatically saw, chisel and
hammer their way through a
job. I was much out-of-date.
This team arrived with an
armory of power tools, and the
gully resounded to the whine
(Continued on page 56)


The Man on
the Handkerchief
By A. B. SHERLOCK
(4)
JMeeting world lightweight
champion Jack McAuliffe in New
York, Griffo by all accounts (in-
cluding, subsequently, McAuliffe’s)
won easily on points, but the
decision went against him, the one
single decision that always re-
mained a sore point with him.]
THE newspapers ran head-
lines —Hail Griffo, Light
and Featherweight
Champion of the
.World!
His notoriety flared. He was
a novelty in a game populated
with hard, efficient fighters, all
of them dangerous, %nd a few
highly skilled. He stood up
nonchalantly against these ring
panthers and made them
blunder about like dromedaries.
Sometimes he pasted them
earnestly, but in general his
attitude was one of amusement,
mixed with mockery.
He found himself the talk of
the town and in strong demand
at the sporting clubs. For a
while he had ap enthusiastic
Latin following, which fell
away when it was discovered
that the name “Griffo” was
Italian in appearance only.
He reverted to limited bouts
of four, six and eight rounds,
but he fought frequently. He
battled it out in no-decision
or draw contests with the best
little men the States could pro-
duce Kentucky Rosebud,
Walter Campbell, Solly Smith,
Johnny van Heest, Kid
Lavigne and Johnny Griffin.
The Kentucky Rosebud
(Walter Edgerton) was the great
rival of George Dixon. In his
contest with Griffo he found it
impossible to get the range of
Griffo’s bobbing head. His
principal second tackled him
about it.
“What’s wrong with you,
Walter? Can’t you time that
zigzag of his?”
“Ah’m trying, boss —Ah’m
trying,” Rosebud panted.. “But
ever’ time Ah punch on the zig,
his head’s on the zag! ”
Griffin, who frequently laid
claim to the championship, had
the misfortune" to be seconded
by Torpedo Billy Murphy.
Between Griffo and Murphy
there was the fine mateship of
the shark and the swordfish.
Half of the venom of Griffo’s
punching was meant for
Murphy. Seasoning the damage
was a verbal cross-fire directed
at the Torpedo.
“Wish you was in ’ere,
Murphy!” (Painful demonstra-
tion). “ ’Ere’s ’ow I’d fix yer! ”
(Complication of punches).
“ ’Ow would yer fancy this?”
(Assorted violence).
Griffo would sheepdog his
prey into the corner where
Murphy was stuttering with
rage, and shoot home insults at
point-blank range, all the while
raking Griffin with a choice
rigmarole of hooks and swings.
This went on for eight rounds.
At the close, Johnny Griffin had
a distinctly downtrodden
appearance, whereas nothing
was amiss with Griffo beyond
a slight hoarseness.
ME had hopelessly outclassed
all the master-minds in the
lighter divisions, but he still
had not met the official feather-
weight champion, George
Dixon.
Taking a line from Griffo’s
moral conquest of McAuliffe,
a Dixon-Griffo match would
not only attract a healthy
house, but would also provide
fireworks not easily forgotten.
Amid general jubilation, they
were matched to meet over 20
rounds at the Casino, Boston,
on June 29, 1894.
Dixon came from Halifax,
Nova Scotia. Almost a year
older than Griffo, he was half
an inch shorter in height. He
figures in the records as a
colored fighter, but experts on
his pedigree rate him as a
quadroon. When he met Griffo,
he had eight years of ring
experience behind him, and
was to go op for another
twelve. Of his extraordinary
ability as a ringman there has
never been any question. It
has been the sober conclusion
of several elders of the tribe
that there have been many
great fighters, but Dixon was
the greatest of them all. His
spirit was indomitable, he was
strong alike in attack and
defence, and under the hottest
fire he remembered where he
was and what he had to do.
Boxing in those far-off days
was not crowded into a corner
by rival amusements, and the
show bloomed without benefit
of press-agents. The paying
customers, telling one another
that the fight would be a
cloudburst, packed the Casino
to the doors. They were not
disappointed.
It was a novelty for Griffo,
weighing 9st. 61b., to meet a
lighter man: Dixon came in at
Bst. 121 b. But the extra pound-
age did not count; it was excess
tissue, and Griffo would have
been improved had he trained
it off. Johnny Eckhardt was
referee.
Griffo was unawed by
Dixon’s reputation, and paid it
small respect. He came out full
of scorn and disdain, rocking
his head out of the way of
Dixon’s sharpshooting, and
leering cockily. He ran into a
sharp reminder that Little
Chocolate was cool and crafty;
the champion switched his
attack to the ribs, and landed
one right that made the Aus-
tralian’s mouth open. Griffo
at once threw his leering tactics
overboard and gave strict
attention to the job.
The pace warmed up ; the
punches were like meteor-
showers. It became clear that
Griffo’s elsewhereness was a
sore puzzle for Dixon. He had
a way of evaporating just when
he was most wanted. Dixon’s
old reliable hot-shots were run-
ning off the rails repeatedly—
and even when they landed,
Griffo rode most of the ginger
out of them.
In the fifth round Dixon
finally got Home with a wicked
punch to the mouth. Griffo
reacted like a battery-jolted
racehorse ; his gloves doubled
their speed, and Dixon found
himself in the thick of a most
uncomfortable bombardment.
He was sagging when the round
ended, and his legs, taking him
to his chair, looked slightly
rubbery.
He pulled round in the
interval and fought back
ferociously. The rounds
unrolled—retreat and rally,
attack and counter - attack.
There were surges of native
fury, stretches of professional
patience.
When. they landed, Dixon’s
punches had more force than
Griffo’s, but his percentage of
clean contacts was low. He
experimented with everything
from finesse to full-blooded
slogging. Griffo was untroubled


by finesse —he seemed to sense
a feint before it started —but
slogging was not in his copy-
book, and he answered it with
evasion.
The most severe wallop in
Griffo’s equipment was a long
left hook. This punch, when he
put his shoulder behind it, was
a beauty. It came off perfectly
in the twelfth round, shaking
Dixon up noticeably. Dixon
crouched, and retaliated with a
body attack. He seemed to
prefer the body as a target;
he found the head much too
mobile.
It was easier to land on
Griffo’s body, but even that
was not easy. Griffo side-
stepped effectively, or he would
sway out of reach and still be
in a position to counter-punch.
He had Peter Jackson’s knack
of twisting at the waist and
letting a punch skid instead of
landing solidly. Nevertheless,
, the skin around his ribs showed
a rosy erythema from Dixon’s
industrious attention.
It was a savage encounter, a
blaze of action right up to the
referee’s decision —a draw.
Popular comment rejected the
verdict. A lot of people could
not understand how the Aus-
tralian could win mojst, of the
rounds and yet do no better
than equalise the score. 1 hey
knew nothing of the boxing
politics behind the decision.
THE proportion of Griffo's
drawn engagements in
American rings was striking. So
striking, in fact, that critics
have hinted at organised skull-
duggery on the part of the
referees. The author of In the
Days of ,the Giants, for
example, speaks warmly on the
subject:
With sickening consistency, the
verdict would be a draw, and there
is the best of evidence that on
many occasions it was a decision
grossly unjust to Griffo.
Praise he got in plenty, from
some of the best judges of boxing
that the world has seen, and his
opponents and supporters alike
marvelled at his skill. But referees
either could not or would not
realise his true worth, and were
obviously animated by a bulldog
determination never to give a
decision in his favor unless he
knocked his opponent so far out
of the ring that he would not get
back until the morning after.
Take a glance at the list of
Griffo’s drawn battles in America
and w'onder, as I have wondered,
that such sheer unfairness ever got
past the thousands of good sports
that followed the game in America.
Well spoken ; but it has since
been discovered that Dixon’s
manager, Tom O’Rourke, took
no risks in each of Griffo’s
three meetings with Little
Chocolate. His arrangements
were that, if both men were on
their feet at the end, the
decision would automatically
be a draw.
This form of insurance was
not unknown in the trade, but
usually it went with short-
distance bouts. There was no
particular discrimination
against Griffo ; the records of
American practitioners of the
time are also studded with
draws.
What made the ratio higher
m Griffo’s case was that his
contests normally went the full
distance, and his opponent was
usually alive at the end.
The American correspondent
of London “Mirror of Life” in
November, 1897, made Griffo
say: “All I want is a draw, and
if I can get this I am willing to
let any man have a shade the
best of it. People say that I
can’t hit any more ; I can hit as
hard as I ever could,.but if I was
to knock my man out, I’d soon
be out of jobs. I couldn’t get
no one to box me then, and I
can’t afford to be idle.”
Although the reporter
obviously failed to realise that
Griffo was trying to be funny,
Griffo’s philosophy about draws
rings true. And it is significant
that he left on record no com-
plaint about drawn contests,
even when he was certain that
he had won at least eighty
points out of every hundred.
On the other hand, he was still
grumbling about the
McAuliffe defeat several years
after the event.
He didn’t question the Dixon
decisions, but he always main-
tained, frequently at the top of
his voice, that he could whip
Little Chocolate any time he
found convenient.
This was probably true
enough. Griffo, at any rate,
was always ready to share the
secret with Dixon himself when
they met socially. In spite of
their public rivalry, he regarded
Dixon as a pal, and one after-
noon in New York borrowed a
fistful of dollars from the easy-
going George.
That evening, a long chain of
drinks later, he sighted Dixon —
or possibly two Dixons —in a
saloon. Tailing on to the party,
he swung the talk around to his
own dazzling abilities.
The company was all smiles
and passive comment. Griffo
flogged on with his bombast,
and its tepid reception got
under his skin. He dragged
the remnants of Dixon’s loan
out of his pocket and slapped it
in a tousled heap on the
counter. He would bet the lot,
he shouted, that he could knock
Dixon out, right there on the
spot, that very minute.
All very well, but Dixon was
still clear-headed. He grinned
and waved the proposal away.
He might be a fighter, he con-
fessed, but a tradesman didn’t
carry his tools all the time.
And, anyhow, bar-room brawls
weren’t in the union rules ; that
sort of thing was for drunks
and amateurs. Griffo was still
bouncing and threatening when
the bar-tender called a police-
man and had him bundled into
the street.
Dixon’s eyes were standing
out. “Whew, that Griffo!
What a nerve, wanting to
fight me —with mah own
money! ”
THE pair had put on such a
show at Boston that the
echoes built into an increasing
clamor for an encore. The
iivals came together again on
GRIFFO
January 19, 1895, at Coney
Island, the stage of Griffo’s
match with McAuliffe. The
contest created an immense stir,
and was presented with all the
trimmings of a great historical
occasion.
The distance this time was
25 rounds, and Griffo was
talked into observing some
semblance of training. He was
delivered into the hands of
Mick Dunn, the Australian
middleweight. Dunn worked
hard and sent his smaller com-
patriot into the ring in good
rough condition. The rogue
still carried an excess malt-and-
bops poundage, and this
blurred the fine edge of his
speed. But he had been spar-
ring with regular partners,
mstead of depending on police-
men and bar-room casuals, and
his timing had a new sparkle.
Dixon, who was trained to
the minute, was eager to start.
As soon as the gong went he
raced in and began hurling
punches in dozens. He was
obviously confident that he
could make the pace too head-
long for Griffo, and for the
first round or two the speed of
his attack was almost more
than eyesight could follow.
Except Griffo’s eyesight. For,
whatever Griffo was outside the
ring, once he stood up inside
the ropes, he was as relaxed as
if in a warm bath. He was com-
pletely at ease —the mechanism
inside him started its familiar
tick-tick. Standing up with
gloves on his hands and a grin
on his face, he felt that he was
where he belonged—and this
time he was fitter than usual.
In those first few rounds at
Coney Island he blocked and
ducked like a master of leger-
demain. The precision of his
methods brought appreciative
roars; nothing so neat and
nimble had ever been seen in
an American ring.
Dixon was storming in
behind a screen of slashing
punches; Griffo mostly
inhabited the middle of the
ring, pivoting to face his
attacker, spearing him with
piston-rod lefts, and blanketing
the swarm of hooks and swings.
In the fourth round he took
the initiative, and Dixon’s left
eye was puffed and sagging. At
the end of the fifth, Griffo for
once mistimed one of Dixon’s
hooks, which banged on his
ear and made him stumble.
He boxed craftily for the
next few rounds, conserving his
strength for the long stretch
of fighting still to be covered.
Constantly he fascinated the
crowd by his hey-presto
methods in tight corners. He
would look to be hopelessly
trapped and then, in a swirl of
movement, would escape to
mid-ring, nobody knew how.
The twelfth round found both
men fighting venomously.
Griffo was showing conspicu-
ous dash at this stage and kept
up a constant fire. He made it
look easy to duck Dixon’s
savage left-hooks, and in the
same movement he slammed
his own right to the ribs.
Dixon’s famous coolness
failed him ; the by-passing of
his best punches made the
stylish boxer revert to the
primitive. He began swinging
like a drunk throwing a bottle.
To one of Griffo’s eerie eye-
sight, dodging these sweeps was
rather easier than stepping out
of the way of a bogged bullock-
team. Diton took a hold of
himself.
The spectators, carried off
their feet, were roaring in
happy excitement. From the
fifteenth round onward, Griffo
nosed ahead. Dixon’s face was
swollen, and his eyes looked as
if another punch or two would
(Continued on page 39)


Beginnings and Ending
"POLITICALLY the year 1957 may be
said to have begun and ended on a
by-election.
Strictly speaking, the Wentworth poll
to fill the vacancy left by the appointment
of Sir Eric Harrison as High Commis-
sioner in London was held in December,
1956, but as Parliament was then in recess
the return of the writ was not announced
by the Speaker until the new session
opened on March 19, when Leslie Bury
took his seat in the House.
Bury’s nomination for the blue-ribbon
Liberal seat had caused a lot of heart-
burning in Wentworth, and, in addition to
the Labor candidate, three Independent
Liberals and an independent Independent
opposed him. In the final count Bury
won by a mere 1100 votes in a poll of
35,000. Some critics interpreted this as
a censure of the Government’s economic
policy* which came under fire during the
campaign, but it is more likely that the
main ingredient was local resentment
against the intrusion of an outsider into
a safe electorate.
Bury’s contribution to debate,
especially on economic and financial
affairs, has been very useful, and he is
not likely to have to face such formidable
opposition when general-election time
comes round.
Wagga
If the Wentworth by-election which
opened the political year advertised dis-
sensions in the Liberal camp, the Wagga
poll which closed it displayed, the Labor
faction-fight in full technicolor. As a
result the unfortunate nephew of the late
N.S.W. Minister for Agriculture, Eddie
Graham, who had been induced to carry
the A.L.P. banner, had the ignominious
experience of seeing his uncle’s majority
of 3000 turned into a Labor deficit of
2800.
In between the two by-elections the
Labor party’s family squabble was never
far away from scratching-point. In New
South Wales the astute Mr. Cahill
managed to hold together his motley band
of Evattites, anti-Evattites and in-
betweeners with a foot in each camp, their
chief bond being the knowledge that, like
the British Government of nineteenth-
century legend, if they didn’t hang to-
gether they’d hang separately.
The situation brought some curious
reversals of policy during the year, with
Cabinet having its mind changed for it
by caucus on one or two occasions. The
Evatt group tightened its grip on the
State executive but, despite the urgings
of a few headhunters, did not feel that
the time had come to push Cahill off the
tightrope.
But although Cahill was successful in
evading the executioners his Queensland
colleague Vince Gair wasn’t so fortunate.
The Queensland Central Executive of the
party, dominated by Bukowski and
Schmella and closely allied with Federal
president Chamberlain, decided that the
time had come to purge the party of
Right-wing elements.
Gair Gone
The surface-issue was the refusal of the
Gair Government to implement immedi-
ately the Q.C.E.’s policy on annual-leave
—Gair had agreed to Jhis in principle, but
claimed that fixing the date for its intro-
duction was an executive act which
Cabinet alone should decide. The timing
of the Q.C.E.’s ultimatum to Gair was
influenced by the knowledge that his
Government’s popularity was at a very
low ebb, due to the combined effect of
the findings of the royal commission on
the Lands Department and of its
Universities Bill and, above all, its Oil
Bill. None of these things redounded to
Gair’s credit, but the real reason behind
his fall went much further back. He was
marked for the axe from the day in 1955
when he voted against the Evatt Left-
wing faction at the Hobart conference.
When the Q.C.E. expelled Gair, all but
one of his Ministers decided to stand by
him, and when he put his fate to the
test in caucus the party split right down
the middle. In the election which
followed the rival Labor factions slang-
whanged each other in the fiercest Donny-
brook for many a long year, with the
result that, aided by the first-past-the-
post system brought back by Labor in
the days when it was united, a non-Labor
Government was returned to office for the
first time in a quarter of a century.
A sardonic feature of the campaign
was the eagerness of the Evatt faction to
avoid the embarrassing assistance of
their Federal leader, especially after he
had referred to Gair and Co. as “clerical
Fascists.” He visited Brisbane, but the
organisers saw to it that his field of
operations was limited.
A sequel to the Queensland debacle
was an attack on Dr. Evatt by two
Federal Labor men who had long since
come to the conclusion that he was too
big a load for the party to carry. Cyril
Chambers, M.H.R. for Adelaide and a
former Army Minister of the Chifley
Government, complained that everywhere
he went he heard people say that Labor
would never win an election while Evatt
remained leader. He made it clear that he
agreed with this opinion.
I am not challenging Dr. Evatt personally
for leadership of the party. My challenge
is directed at the harm Dr. Evatt continues
to do in fomenting discord wherever he
goes.
One-time Minister for the Interior H. V.
Johnson went further. In his view,
Dr. Evatt not only lacks principle, he
lacks an understanding of principle... .The
result has been that today in Canberra
men who have been loyal friends many
years look on each other with suspicion....
Too many are afraid to get out of line for
fear of victimisation Dr. Evatt has split
the party -right across the Commonwealth
... .Today we find the lack of humanity we
fought against in the early days is associated
with the leadership of the Labor party.
. During the weeks that followed there was
much whispering and muttering inside the
Federal Labor party. Others who felt
much as Chambers and Johnson did, but
realised that the leader had the numbers,
tried to persuade the rebels not to bring
up the matter in caucus.
Chambers Expelled
To his credit, Chambers stuck to his
guns and moved a motion of no-
confidence in Dr. Evatt’s leadership.
There was no seconder. Johnson sat
silent, and so did the Right-wing N.S.W,
members, fearful of their fate in the pre-
selection ballots yet to come. In the
sequel Chambers was expelled from the
A.L.P. Johnson was not expelled, but
was denied endorsement for the Kal-
goorlie seat.
When Federal Parliament went into
recess early in December it had handled
119 bills during the session—three more
would have made a nice even tally of one
bill for each member of the Reps. Most
of the bills were passed, but the Joske
Divorce Bill and the Evidence Bill were
held-over till the next session, and the
14 banking bills were blocked by the
Senate’s failure-to-pass.
This action was the outcome of a close-
the-ranks-boys move among the warring
Opposition Senators, a course which
might have led the unwary or uninformed'
to imagine that the faction-fight was
nearing its end, especially as under the
joint influence of the Christmas spirit and
the unaccustomed thrill of defeating, or
at least balking, a Government bill
Senators McKenna (A.L.P.), Cole
(D.L.P.) and Byrne (Q.L.P.) said kind
things about each other on the last day
of the session.
Other evidence showed that the peace
was merely a brief truce; Even while the
Senators were exchanging felicitations,
Evatt and anti-Evatt factions were fighting
a life-and-death struggle in the N.S.W.
preselection ballots, with some sitting
members in both Houses facing political
extinction.
At the same time A.L.P. and D.L.P.
candidates were going it hammer-and-
tongs in Wagga, with Dr. Evatt’s brother
Clive running the campaign of three free-
lance Laborites against both.
All three Labor groups came out of
Wagga sadder than they went in. The
A.L.P. took a proper drubbing and lost
the seat. The D L.P. scored about 26
per cent, of the Labor vote, which, on
indications elsewhere in Australia, was
what it was entitled to expect, but was
far less than it was hoping for.
Wagga, in dashing Labor hopes, raised
those of the Liberals, who had been
having their own troubles in the N.S.W.
Parliament, both with their Country-
party colleagues and rivals and with dissi-
dent members in their own party-room.
The optimism engendered in Wagga will
also spill over into the Federal field, with
an election due before the end of 1958.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Horses
Before the running of the
AJ.C. Summer Cup at Rand-
wick on Boxing Day—won
easily by Half Hennesy (backed
from 12’s to B’s) from Lord
Terrance and Gallant Lee
hundreds gathered round the
Paddock mounting - enclosure
voicing emphatic comments on
the unusual gait of hot-favorite
Caranna when walking round
before J. Thompson mounted.
Many backers of the 5-to-4 top-
weight—he had 9.6 to carry in
a soaring temperature —
shouted at the stewards to take
the favorite from the race.
Stipe Jack Gaxieu asked W. J.
McFadden, the club’s vet., to
look closely at Caranna, and
the upshot was an all-clear
decision after an examination
and some brief pacework. In
the race Caranna ran as the
demonstrators reckoned he
would, finishing nearer last than
first.
Leading Sydney trainer T. J.
Smith started two horses in the
£2OOO Villiers Stakes —first leg
of the A.J.C.’s summer double
at Randwick —and, as often
happens on such occasions, the
lesser-fancied of the pair won
the money. Top Ruler (20 to
1), who carries the Tulloch
colors and was well ridden by
A. Ward, defeated another
“roughie,” Theodric (25 to 1),
with Ma Reine, backed from
10’s to 7’s, a close third. Top
Ruler had shown best form in
Welter company, and G.
Moore, No. 1 stable jockey for
the Smith-trained horses, pre-
ferred the better-fancied runner
The Blue Hawk (third favorite),
who, however, at no stage of
the race looked like sharing in
the stakemoney.
Duty, winner of the Maiden
Handicap on Villiers day, is a
four - year - old gelding by
Felcrag (imp.) from White Lily
by Winooka from Spear Lily
by Spearhead (imp.). Spear
Lily was a sister to Yarramba,
wanner of the Moonee Valley
and the WiHiamstown Cups and
iunner-up to Peter Pan in the
1932 Melbourne Cup. Duty
hadn’t done much in previous
race-starts, but had lately been
running fast times on the
track, so he could go on to
better wins.
Nearly half the entrants for
Tattersall’s Club’s £2050 Cup
(li mile), to be run at
Randwick today (Wednesday),
were handicapped on the limit,
but the winner is expected to
come from horses nearer the
top of the weights. Twelve
months ago Empire Link (9 to
2) struck top form and won
this race in fine style from
Prince Delville and Baystone.
He carried 9st. and ran the 12
furldngs in 2.31 j. Two years
ago Blazeaway, who now blows
a lot when galloping at Rose-
“This time try and get them on the PEG, dear.”
bery and may have the job
ahead to win another good
race, won the Cup carrying
7.3. Fastest time for the Cup,
2.30, stands to the credit of
Dewar (1942). He finished in
front of Grand Fils and Buz-
along; two years later Grand
Fils won the Cup.
Rosebery trainer Gordon
Brown is hopeful that three-
year-old Turkestan will prove a
stayer in the autumn. The colt
won three races at two years,
and this season in six Sydney
starts has won one event —a
fairly good one, the 10-furlongs
Rosehill Cup—and has filled
minor places in four others, so
he’s been a little unlucky. In
the Cup he beat Straight Draw
and Caranna. Prior to that he
had been placed in both the
Rose h i 11 and Canterbury
Guineas. He looks well after
his spell at Riverstone.
• • • •
Both races in the Standish-
Bagot Handicaps double at
Remington date back to 1884.
The six-furlongs Standish was
named after Captain F. C.
Standish, third chairman of the
V.R.C., and the Bagot (nowa-
days a 13-furlongs event) after
R. C. Bagot, first V.R.C.
secretary.
• • • •
Mares hold the time-record
for each event*. In 1933 that
good mare Waltzing Lily
skipped over the Standish six-
furlongs in I.loy. In 1950
Heather Rose ran the Bagot
distance in 2.44|.
The luck of racing: Oak-
leigh motor-car dealer Doug
Wheelhouse has raced horses
for 20 years, but prior to this
season had never owned a
horse good enough to win in
the city. Now he owns Sand-
hurst, perhaps the best colt to
race during the recent spring
carnival in Melbourne, and he
also has the promising filly
Belle Vixen. By Sweet William
out of Racefox, Belle Vixen
notched her first win at the
last Moonee Valley meeting
against moderate opposition,
but won well enough to suggest
success in better company.
Wheelhouse has double reason
to be pleased with the suc-
cesses of Sandhurst and
Belle Vixen —he bred both
youngsters.
At the Sydney Easter sales
last year A. R. Creswick bid
3300gns. for a Newtown
Wonder - Maderson filly,
second-highest price ever paid
in Australia for a yearling
filly. And he was lucky to get
a run out of the youngster.
Named Valencia, she badly
gashed a foreleg tendon soon
after being broken-in. Under
Fred Hoysted’s care she
recovered, made her racing
debut at Moonee Valley on
December 21, and won so
impressively that she’s likely to
justify the high price paid for
her. In fact, Hoysted, not
given to false hopes, expects
her to develop into a champion.
• • • • •
Flying Adelaide filly Cherete,
injured in her only race of the
Melbourne spring carnival,
came back to racing with a
record-breaking win in the
recent Benson Quality Stakes at
Cheltenham (S.A.). Already
holding the Caulfield record
for five furlongs, she set new
figures for South Australia in
winning the Benson in 58.2. In
13 starts, Cherete has won 10
races and been in three minor
placings.
Victorian racing is fortunate
to have a friend in Premier
H. E. Bolte, whose interest
extends to owning horses. At
the Moonee Valley meeting on
December 21 he was repre-
sented by the moderate stayer
Locharn and the two-year-old
filly Meadow Bird. A recent
country winner, Meadow Bird
ran a promising second to
Valencia. She has all the
speed usual with the Meadow
Mist breed, and should soon
give the Premier a city win.
• • • •
Arthur (“Scobie”) Breasley
has found the urge to ride again
in his own State too strong to
resist. He will be in action at
Flemington today (New Year’s
Day), and has a wonderful
chance to score on the Hoysted-
trained colt Master Rane, who,
a winner at his last three starts,
looks an outstanding bet in
the set-weight Stradbroke
Stakes. It would be fitting if
Breasley rode the Stradbroke
winner. His last ride before
he left for England was on the
1950 Stradbroke winner King
Richard.
• • • •
New sires to be represented
at this month’s N.Z. annual
yearling-sales include Avocat
General, by Court Martial
from Cinnamon by Obliterate,


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The "Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO.^LTD.
(England)
N-B.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne
OPES
oj Every Type
and Size
Famous for many
years as Queensland's
premier manufacturers
of envelopes we pro-
duce the well known—•
“JAXUL” PATENT
CLEAR - FACE WIN-
DOW Envelopes in
sizes 5f ins. x 3| ins.,
6f x 3f and 9 ins. x
4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED En-
velopes in all sizes,
No. 1 to No. 8.
Plain or Printed
COMMERCIAL En -
velopes in all standard
sizes and qualities,
plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application
lockson &
O’Sullivan ptym
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers <& Printera
304-806 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
and Castle Donnington by
Nearco from Creel by Coup de
Lyon. Avocat General won
three races at up to 10 furlongs,
is related to Beau Pere, and
is the only son of Court
Martial (noted English sire) at
the stud in the Dominion.
Castle Donnington won half-a-
dozen races, also at up to 10
furlongs.
Monte Carlo’s dam, Bob-
along, is the New Zealand
Thoroughbred Breeders’
Association’s choice as the
brood mare of the year.
Located at Ken Austin’s Ingle-
wood stud, Kaiapoi, she is by
Lord Bobs (imp.) from Raphis
by Night Raid (imp.). Her dam
was a sister to Phar Lap. All
Bobalong’s progeny have won
races.
W. R. Buckley, of Douglas
Park stud, Oakey (Q.),
announces the purchase in
England of the well-bred
English horse Court Com-
mand, through the Australian
Estates Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
Court Command (full brother
to Supreme Court, winner of
£37,000 in stakes, and a
successful young sire) is
described by a leading English
bloodstock authority as a nice-
quality colt, nicely topped and
with the best of-limbs. He is
a magnificent chestnut, stand-
ing over 16 hands. In the Free
Handicap for 1956 Court Com-
mand was weighted at 8.11.
He is by Precipitation from
Forecourt, a winner and dam of
winners, among them Supreme
Court (£36,949, including the
King George VI and Queen
Elizabeth Festival of Britain
Stakes in record time). Fore-
court is from the Dastur mare
Overture, dam of eight winners
of over £23,000 in stakes,
including Sea Symphony
(Irish 1000 Guineas), The
Cobbler (National Breeders’
Produce Stakes and Challenge
Stakes, Newmarket, etc.), and
Before the Mast .(Champagne
Stakes). Court Command won
the King Edward VII Stakes
(1| mile) at Ascot (carrying
8.6 and ridden by Lester
Piggott). He then won the
Oxfordshire Stakes at New-
bury (1 mile 5 furlongs), carry-
ing 9.5 (again ridden by Lester
Piggott). Court Command was
trained by Noel Murless,
trainer to the Queen.
“Bicky”: Harry Toomer,
who died recently from
injuries received in a race-fall
at Kyneton (Vic.), was good
both in flat-races and over
obstacles. He won the V.R.C.
Grand National Hurdle o.n By
The Way in 1952 ; the Great
Eastern Steeplechase, at Onka-
paringa, Oakbank (S.A.), on
The Drum; and the Grand
Annual Steeplechase at the
tricky Warrnambool (Vic.)
course on Lowther. Among his
flat-racing successes he won a
weight - for - age event at
Flemington a few years back
on the imported horse Great
Western, and his .long list
included many country Cup-
winners, including 1957
Bendigo and Ballarat Cups on
Baroda Beam.
Good winner Master Rane,
a Sans Tache colt, in common
with the winners of most Vic-
torian two-year-old events this
season, is locally bred. Victoria
has a particularly good crop of
youngsters this year.
“Bicky”: An innovation in
jumping races has been pro-
vided by the Mornington (Vic.)
Racing Club with its steeple-
chase course of about two
miles which is shaped like
a figure-eight. First race over
this novel and tricky course, in
which five of the original nine
starters came to grief, was won
by Red Ochre, owned by “Air-
ways King” Reg Ansett, who
helped in planning the new
track.
• • • •
“L. 8.5.”: A very promising
New Zealand filly is called
Love and Kisses ...
“What do you like?” she
asks. It is her first race-meet-
ing. Finishing-school broke-up
last week. She knows that is
the right question to ask.
“Love and Kisses,” he says,
glancing quickly at her. He’s
good-looking. Their eyes meet.
She blushes. “I —didn’t . . .
I mean . . . Do you fancy any-
thing?”
“Love and Kisses will do
me,” he persists. “Don’t like
anything else —wouldn’t go past
it.”
“I thought . . . Oh, Mother,
that looks like Rosemary over
there in blue! I really must say
hullo to her. Excuse me.”
“P.0.M.C.”: A better record
than the five successes for the
same saddle-cloth (No. 1) on
the same afternoon (30/11/’57)
stands at Warwick Farm.
Around 1928, No. 4 won the
first six races and was beaten
a head in the last. In this race
the horse carrying No. 4 had
poor form but was backed-in
from forlorn odds by the public
simply on the strength of the
number’s extraordinary run.
+ +*
Other Fields
In the two Sheffield Shield
games which ended just before
Christmas, N.S.W. inflicted on
S.A. its second successive out-
right defeat. N.S.W.’s innings
win came in under three days.
S.A.’s first outright loss (by
nine wickets) was at the bat-
and-ball of W.A.
In the other game, in Perth,
Queensland had a narrow,
interesting five-run first-innings
win (396 runs to 391). Queens-
land had also won the first
game this year between the two
States, in Brisbane; a bigger
win that time—outright, by
eight wickets.
• • • •
In S.A.’s first innings against
N.S.W., spin-bowler Bruce
Dooland, when on 1, appeared
to be caught at second-slip by
Saunders after edging O'Regan.
There was a confident appeal,
but the umpire, in doubt, con-
sulted square-leg before making
his decision, which was “Out! ”
However, Saunders, sportingly
if somewhat belatedly, then
indicated it wasn’t a catch.
Dooland stayed, and went on
to 17, when he was bowled by
O’Neill and there was no
doubt about it that time.
• • • •
Besides Australia v. South
Africa, a Test-series between
Pakistan and West Indies (the
home team) is about to be
played, with the first Test
beginning at Barbados on
January 17. Pakistan captain
is A. H. Kardar, who has
skippered his country’s team
since its entry into Test-cricket,
with vice-captain Fazal' Mah-
mood. Fazal, it will be recalled,
was the Pakistan fast-medium
bowler mainly responsible for
the drubbing inflicted on lan
Johnson’s Australian team in
the Test of October, 1956. Aus-
tralia was dismissed for 80
(Fazal 6-34) and 187 (Fazal
7-80), with Pakistan (199 and
1-69) winning by nine wickets,
“Atala”: Sir Donald Brad-
man’s 18-year-old son John the


bung them up completely.
Griffo’s bombardment was
relentless, but Dixon was
unshaken, and in flashes fought
back hard, awaiting his chance.
This came in the twentieth
round, when Griffo faded
under the stress of his own
attack. He began to flounder,
and the clockwork of his
defence ran down.
Dixon saw the green-light,
and cut loose with a full
offensive. At last he had the
satisfaction of being able to pin
several heavy smashes on the
slippery devil.
As a rule Griffo was no
man’s punching-bag. “If anyone
hit him,” said Wilson Mizner,
a noted wisecracker in
pugilistic circles, “it was sheer
coincidence.”
All the same, with his
massive head and neck, he
could take a beating as well as
any “iron man” in the profes-
sion. He did so now. Dixon
was hammering at him with
expert ferocity, but he kept his
feet and seemed in no danger
of going down. And midway
through the twenty-first round
it was Dixon’s turn to weaken ;
he had run out of gas himself
Griffo was by this time a
shade livelier, and throughout
the next three rounds he kept
Dixon dancing on the end of
his straight left.
Dixon’s features were now
mostly a ruin, and he wore a
remarkable lump over one
eyebrow. But he gathered his
desperation for a last-round
assault. He chased Griffo
around the ring as if he
believed he could bring him
down in the last minute.
Griffo was tired, but still cap-
able of keeping out of trouble.
He grinned more widely at
Dixon as the final round ticked
away, head - moving the
champion’s gloves and swaying
out of reach as smoothly as he
had done from the start.
The referee, Tim Hurst, lifted
the arms of both contestants;
Griffo had fought another draw.
Ted Alexander, who had
travelled to New York to
witness the struggle, packed his
comment into four words:
“Griffo won every round.”
{To be continued next week)
other day made an excellent
111 for St. Peter’s College in
an intercollegiate match against
Prince Alfred College. He also
took 2-48 and 4-28. Not the
first time young Bradman has
made the sporting headlines.
Among other things, last May
he set a new intercollegiate
record for 120yds. hurdles and
(on the same day) won the
100yds. and 220yds. and the
220yds. hurdles. Personally, I
think it would be good to see
him, when he leaves school,
concentrating in the sporting
field on trying to follow in his
dad's cricketing footsteps.
* * *
“0..W.W.”: A remarkable
effort was put up by a former
steeplechase-jockey, 53-year-
old A. E. Lord, in a
marathon handicap foot-race
held near Palmerston North
(N.Z.) recently. Lord won the
race in 3hrs. 12min. By far
the oldest runner in the field,
in 1936 he had won a marathon
a quarter-mile shorter, in a
minute faster time, 3hrs. llmin.
In this recent run of his Lord
must have overcome the
hurdles and obstacles of his
added years with the same
judgment he had on horse-
back.
The Czech runner Stanislav
Jungwirth disappointed in his
recent tour in Melbourne and
Sydney; but; he was handi-
capped to some extent by ’flu
soon after his arrival. His only
success was in Sydney on Sun-
day (Dec. 15), when he won a
mile-race in very slow time. Vic-
torian Merv Lincoln twice
defeated him, in a 1500-metre
race at a twilight meet and in
a mile-race on Saturday Dec.
21 ; and in other races he
finished behind promising
runners such as Victorian John
Murray and Queenslander Tony
Blue. Lincoln is running well
(he also won the mile-race on
Dec. 7 in the N.S.W.-v.-Victoria
athletic meeting), and Jung-
wirth’s trainer, Dr. Fiser, has
tipped Lincoln to set a new
world mile-record shortly.
Jungwirth’s visit was not the
success, financially or in
winning races, that the visit of
Hungarians Iharos, Tabori and
Roszavolgyi was in Dec., 1955.
* * *
“Keima”: On December 19
Brisbane stadium, after 47
years of existence, presented its
last fight. It’s to be demolished,
and a new stadium erected on
the spot. The last fight was
between Australian bantam-
weight champion Dick White
and flyweight title-holder
Warner Batchelor (who, inci-
dentally, at present sports a
luxuriant red beard). In what
was the third fight between
the pair, White won a 12-
rounds points-decision. Earlier
in the year White had stopped
Batchelor in seven rounds, and
on November 29 they fought
a draw, with Batchelor unlucky
not to get a t.k.0.; the fight
being stopped by the police in
the fourth round when White
was definitely having the worse
of it.
* * *
“Cinquanteneuvieme”: Some
top-line Aussie Rules ‘players
in Victoria have in recent years
been getting very lucrative
coaching jobs in the country.
Those going to the mulga for
next season include Bill
Stephen, captain - coach of
Fitzroy (V.F.L.), for the last
three years an outstanding
back-pocket player, who has
clinched on North Eastern
District Yarrawonga’s offer of
£6O a week for six months each
year for three years as playing
coach, with a rent-free house
and assistance to start a busi-
ness ; Frank Johnson, captain-
coach of Port Melbourne
(V.F.A.), runners-up this year,
who has accepted £45 a week
for three years and a job as
captain - coach of South
Warrnambool; and Peter
Pianto, of Geelong, the
League’s outstanding rover of
recent years, who, on £4O a
week, a house and a business to
walk into selling sporting-
goods in Colac, will coach a
near-by team.
“Sandgrove”: The A.N.F.C.’s
recent decision to send Bruce
Andrew to N.Z., U.S.A.,
Ceylori, Pakistan, etc., recalls
the years before World War I
when N.Z. Australian Rules
teams crossed the Tasman to
compete in the carnivals. The
code had a footing in Auck-
land, Wellington, Thames and
several other places. Small
grounds, player-shortage, the
advent of Rugby League and
administrative troubles killed it
in N.Z. Revival efforts have
all since failed. Exhibition-
games have attracted favorable
comment and won a good
press, but the two wealthy
Rugby codes and Soccer are
firmly entrenched. Suitable
grounds in N.Z. would be one
major difficulty—Rugby and
Soccer oblongs fit twice into
spacious playing-areas like
Carlton and Geelong.
* * *
“J.D.A.”: Talking about the
Wallabies, I have often seen it
stated that the late Prime
Minister Ben Chifley just
missed selection with Dr.
Morans 1908 Rugby Union
Wallabies and would have been
in the side had only one more
player been taken. This is not
true. When those Wallabies
reached Naples Cecil Murnin
was so ill that he was sent back
to Sydney. I fancy few of the
tourists thought to see him
alive again. Then, in the first
match Peter Burge broke a
leg, and in the second game
C. A. (“Boxer”) Russell
(recently deceased) tackled an
opponent so solidly that the
Englishman broke the lines-
man’s leg. The linesman
happened to be Queenslander
Flanagan, who finished-up in
the hospital - bed next to
big Peter. Was Chif. sent
as a replacement? Definitely
not. A, B. (“Son”) Burge
was picked to replace
brother Peter, and Ken Gavin,
of Orange (N.S.W.), went across
as replacement for Flanagan,
Both “Son” Burge and Gavin
played grandly in what was for
them a rather short tour.
Finally Cec Murnin, despite
the predictions of most, was at
the wharf when the Wallabies
arrived home.
*
“Lyle”: American football is
not, as yet, played in Australia
—but Ireland’s national foot-
ball, the Gaelic code, is. It is
strongest in Melbourne, where
there is a 14-team competition.
In 1957’s annual contest
between Victoria and N.S.W.
at the Irish sports-festival at
Erskineville Oval (Sydney),
N.S.W. surprised by beating
Victoria by 7 points to 2. In
the Gaelic brand of football
the number of players is the
same as in Rugby Union (15).
A Soccer ball is used, and the
rules are a mixture of Soccer
and Australian Rules. Scoring
is on the lines of Australian
Rules, with its goals and
behinds. Thus, in the game
mentioned, N.S.W. scored 1.4
V), Victoria 0.2 (2).
* * *
“Kune”: Robertson-Burra-
wang (N.S.W.) Rugby Leaguers
might well claim the code's
record for a team’s casualties
i* l one season—that is, players
hurt to the extent of being
“out” for the rest of the
season. Playing reserve-grade
i n last winter’s provincial
competition, the team had 13
Payers badly hurt. Injuries,
collected in 13 competition
matches, added up to two
broken legs, two broken wrists,
two broken ankles, one broken
rib, three dislocated shoulders,
one broken cartilage, one knee
injury and one chest injury. Yet
the team ran into runner-up
place in the comp, and finished
with a scoring tally of 210
points to 98 against it.


THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A. FISHER, B A.. B Sc.,
II !*admaster
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Wanted to buy volumes 1,3, 4,
5, of Buchanan’s History of Scot-
land, or complete set (published
1856), also old History of Ireland. —:
6648.
To buy copy of Farm Accounts,
published by The Bulletin in 1930,
—6649.
To buy W. A. Brodribb’s
Recollections of an Australian
Squatter, or Leaves from my
Journal since 1835 (Sydney, 1883);
Broken Hill Pty. Co. — 50 Years of
industry and Enterprise, 1885-1935;
W. E. Bromilow’s Twenty Years
among the Primitive Papuans (Lon-
don, 1929) and Vocabulary of
English Words, with Equivalents in
Douguan (British New Guinea ),
Fijian and Samoan (1904); Flora of
South Eastern Polynesia, by B. H.
Brown; and Gordon Brown's My
Descent from Soapbox to Senate
(Brisbane, 1953). —6650.
Information Sought
(1) Who' was Australia’s first V.C.-
winner in World War 11 ? (2) How
many War II V.C -winners still sur-
vive, and what action won each his
award ?
(1) Cpl. J. H. Edmondson, who
was awarded the V.C. posthumously
for “outstanding resolution, leader-
ship and conspicuous bravery” in an
action under heavy fire at Tobruk
(April 13-14, 1941). (2) Nine. They
are (ranks given as at time of
winning award): Wing-Commander
Hughie Edwards, Australia’s most-
decorated War II airman, Australia’s
second War II V.C., who won his
award for leadership in the R.A.F.’s
first daylight-raid on the German
naval base of Bremen on July 4,
1941; Roden Cutler, lately Aus-
tralian Minister to Egypt, who, as
a lieutenant in 2/sth Field Regiment,
won the V.C. for exceptional
courage in driving back the French
at Merdjayoun (Syria) in 1941 ; Pte.
James Gordon (2/31st Battalion),
who charged from the front a
French machinegun-post near
Djezzine (Syria) in 1941, and killed
its four gunners with the bayonet;
Lt.-Col. C. G. W. Anderson, now
Country-party member for Hume
in the Federal Parliament, who won
the V.C. while commanding 2/19th
Battalion in Malaya—surrounded
and vastly outnumbered by the
Japanese, the remnants of his
battalion, under Anderson's “brave
leadership and determined and out-
standing courage,” did immense
damage to the enemy; Pte. Richard
Kelliher (2/25th Battalion), who
won his V.C. at Nadzab (New
Guinea) in 1943 when, on his own,
he ran through heavy machinegun-
fire to silence a post; Pte. Ted
Kenna (2/4th Battalion), who, at
Wewak on May 5, 1945, in full
view of the enemy and completely
exposed, engaged a troublesome
bunker —the citation says he strode
into fire so accurate that “bullets
passed between his arms and his
body”; Cpl. Reg Rattey, of the
2/25th Battalion, who singlehanded,
with a Bren attacked three machine-
gun-bunkers on Bougainville on
Mar. 22, 1945; Pte. Frank Partridge
(Bth Battalion), who won his V.C.
in an attack on a Japanese outpost
on Bougainville on July 24, 1945;
and Pte. Tom Starcevich (“Starcey
of the 43rd”), who in Nov., 1945,
at Beaufort, North Borneo, captured
two Japanese machinegun-posts by
walking straight up to them in day-
light through intense fire.
* * * *
Brief outline of the way The
Bulletin has influenced the
development of Australian literature
and helped Australian writers ?
The Bulletin has from its begin-
nings- played an important part in
the fostering of Australian literary
talent; A. G. Stephens once said,
“Past all errors and inadequacies,
The Bulletin’s service as a mouth-
piece and market-place of Australian
poetry and prose must in perpetuity
be remembered.” The following
facts, which but touch on the
subject, are taken in the main from
W. E. Fitz Henry’s introduction to
Mackaness and Stone’s The Books
of “The Bulletin” 1880-1952 (1955).
in less than 10 years from its found-
ing, the literary centre of Australia
had shifted from the Yorick Club,
Melbourne, to The Bulletin office.
In the paper’s first years Australian
literature, which had already had
moments of glory, was at a low
ebb; and The Bulletin’s first verse
and short stories were not
particularly good. Then, in 1886,
Banjo Paterson broke into the paper
with “The Bush Fire”; Henry
I,awson followed in 1887 with “A
Song of the Republic,” and in the
same year appeared the 22-year-old
Edward Dyson, with his well-known
story “A Profitable Pub,” later
renamed “A Golden Shanty.” Victor
Daley, “who was to prove one of
[the paper’s] best assets for 22
years.” was writing stories as early
as 1883. Then through the years
came such writers as Roderic
Quinn, Randolph Bedford, E. J.
Brady, Will Ogilvie, J. H. M.
Abbott, Will Lawson, C. J. Dennis,
Chris Brennan, Hugh McCrae,
“Steele Rudd,” “Price Warung,”
W. T. Goodge, Albert Dorrington,
Joseph Furphy, down to present-
day writers such as Douglas Stewart,
Kylie Tennant, E. O. Schlunke,
Cecil Mann, John Fountain, Judith
Wright, Rosemary Dobson, David
Campbell, R. S. Porteous (“Stand-
by”), Peter Bladen, Hal Porter,
M. H. Ellis, Randolph Stow, and
niany others. In past years The
Bulletin published many books
which are Australian classics. To
name but a couple, A Golden
Slumty (1890), Australian stories and
sketches in prose and verse by many
Buleetin writers, Fair Girls and
Gray Horses, by Will Ogilvie (1898),
On Our Selection (1899) and Our
New Selection (1903), by “Steele
Rudd,” and Such Is Life, by Tom
Collins (1903). In the 1930’s The
Bulletin published Kylie Tennant’s
Ttburon and was interested in the
Endeavour Press, which also
published many famous Australian
works.
Brief Answers
D.L.: President Carlos
Camillo Armas of Guatemala was
shot dead on July 26 this year by
one of his guards, a Communist.
President Armas led an invasion
from Honduras in June, 1954, which
overthrew the Left-wing Government
of President Arbenz Guzman, now
in exile in Uruguay... .P.: Accord-
ing to figures considered accurate by
the International Wool Secretariat,
Iron Curtain countries now possess
125-million sheep... .R. 8.: There
are two effective methods to control
the mound- or meat-ant (Irido-
myrmex detectus), as listed' by the
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture’s
Chief Entomologist—Firstly, fumiga-
tion of mounds with carbon-
bisulphide. This is a colorless
liquid which quickly evaporates l , and
a few fluid-ounces are poured down
each of the holes on the mound.
The mound should then be quickly
covered with either a tarpaulin or a
few shovelfuls of moist earth, with
the idea of confining the toxic
fumes underground. Within 24
hours the ants should all be dead.
Care should be taken, as the gas is
highly inflammable. No naked lights
should be burning whilst the fumiga-
t:on is carried out. The second
method is treatment with insecticide.
Emulsions of either 0.5 per cent.
Dieldrin or 2 per cent. Chlordane
are very effective and long-lasting.
A thorough drenching of the mound
and a spraying of the surrounding
area within a radius of 20ft. from
the mound should, after a period,
eliminate the ants... .J.N.A.: (1)
Our coins expert advises that, as all
your florins are still in circulation
and legal tender, they are worth
only face-value. (2) F.D. stands
for Fidei defensor, defender of the
Faith. (3) Your two five-franc
pieces would each be worth about
7s. to a collector. (4) and (5) The
Mint authorities at Melbourne
would be able to give full informa-
tion S.J.O’N.: Write Probate
Office, N.S.W. Supreme Court, King
Street, Sydney H.K.: (1) On the
facts given you would not be liable
foi the labor, nor for any of the
materials you did not order. (2)
Tgs, the cake-tins can be fixed. Rub
tbem with steel-wool until their
9 Ti g’ n _ a l shine is restored, then rinse
in Bot water and dry well.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
J.H.E.F.: You’d do that Tobruk
story far better in prose J.W.:
Thin verse studded with nice solid
place-names... .M.C.: But have you
any right to speak for the moon?
. ...M.N.: Write about washing-
day, or cats, or the neighbors—any-
thing except so large a subject as
“Philosophy of Peace”....
A.L.McL.: That’s a very Nordic
noise... .C.C.: Featherweights....
D.E.R.: Your old bush home is
casual and tumbledown but we’ve
seen far worse.. . .K.L.W.: G r av’s
“Elegy” only slightly modernised.
. ...j.F.H.: my /uiai ior
your inspection.” Send us your
7,000,0015 t... .8.M.: Convict-roads
are a well-worn theme though you
do bring a touch of freshness to
it... .E.E.G.: We’ll have a bit of
THE WRECKER WRECKED
With the help of a mate
lie divorced a good wife
To marry a ‘“pirate”
Who cut short his life.
The second he married
She loved him not
But the brilliance it carried
And for what he had got.
When the depression it hit him
And his money did fail
With an ardor she bit him
And he landed in jail.
. ...J.S.: That string of rhymes to
“Araluen” is unbelievably awful.
... .1.C.8.: Fair for your age. Read
all the modern Australian poetry
you can.... W.J.L.: We rather liked
the line “Wecanteredonthrough-
theburntoutgrasstheasheswerea n kle-
deep out don't you tnmk you should
space it?....M.E.: “Home is such
a cosy word, made up of letters
four.” Oh, cripes!.... R.A.H.:
“Morning Tea” faithful but wishy-
washy H.J.S.: : Your 1000-line
ballad about the buckjumper was
last seen bolting up George Street
in the direction of the G.P.O
2nd Instalment of
Stockmen All
By W.F.H.
[The big muster is 0n...1n
swimming with beantiful young
lubras.. .Fight between teamster
and cook. . .Mysterious armed men
...Ferocious wild boar, ete
Young, white station bands Jackie
and Jimmy learn station life with
black boys Emu, Possum, Stock-
whip and Bootlace.]
AFTER many hours of solid toil
some of the men started to
come back into the sunlight and
there was a surprise for them
cows, with Calves, half grown bulls,
and many mature stock which had


ARTS
Circular Charts for all type*
of Recording Instrument*
♦or any class of Machinery
or Equipment
METER CHARTS a Specialty
ACCURACY GUARANTEES)
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
Missing Friend
FRANCIS JOHN LEGO, late of Capelia,
Queensland, Australia. Has an interest
in a South African estate and should
write to DONALD MURRAY & COM-
PANY, P.O. Box 281, Bloemfontein,
South Africa, giving his postal address.
Urgent.
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £81,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. F.gerton,
Manager for Australia.
dodged brandings were there in
dozens and going for their lives
trying to reach another belt of
scrub about a mile away those men
who were already in the open were
going at full gallop trying to head
the leaders into open country whips
flayed the flanks of the frothing
cattle and tried to
fight it out with Man and dog and
in the distance Possum saw a mob
of horses entering a dense scrub
belt ahead of him and he recognised
them as brumby. The job of yard-
ing the scrubbers was terrific and
tragic as both cows and calves had
to be flogged before submitting to
being driven to the yards to undergo
the usual earmarking branding and
emasculating to make figures for
absentee owners perhaps in England.
No pikers were seen but Emu and
Possum had their shoot, kangaroo,
emu, and eagles, being the bag the
kanga skin for tanning to be used
lor whips the emu provided a fine
rifle oil the rolls of fat inside the
bird placed on a piece of bark in
the sun and let drip into a cup,
bottle, etc. Jackie made the boys
gather the empty rifle shells clean
and oil the rifles which they did with
willing hearts as blacks were for-
bidden the use of rifles etc. but they
could shoot. Mr. Bell the Jackeroo
in charge got to work and amid the
primitave savagery of red hot iron
and knife the day was to be
remembered by the bellowing of
cattle and calves. After that haul
it was decided to await a full moon
and take some quiet cattle near the
edge of the scrub and await results
luckily the wind was blowing from
the scrub belt and everybody was
hoping it would be the same later
on. When arriving at the homestead
Mr. Lean told them he had orders
to dognet the new sheep run and in
a few days teamsters were there
loaded with wire and netting for
the new project. At given points
surveyors pegs could be found and
from them the station hands started
the line of fence cutting some very
straight box saplings the first one
was centered at the peg and when
three pegs looked like one the
fence went ahead and it was tough
work scrub everywhere and if a
post was needed where a tree was in
line it was chopped fence high and
regardless of girth as the long augers
could go through them. After many
days of hacking their way through
scrub and chopping posts both
round and split according to the
timber easily found nearby they were
relieved by fencing contractors who
were to keep dingoes from Aloomba
sheep which needed the nine foot
six netting fence in an area the
home of dingoes. The moonlight
night came and much had been done
the blackboys had built platforms
in the upper branches of large trees
which gave a clear view of the scrub
edge. About midnight many
scrubbers came and mixed with the
grazing cattle and all hands were
alert to the possibility of seeing a
Piker bull emerge. The moonlight
made everything appear as if it was
twilight and to help the stockmen
the station cattle were edging away
from the scrub towards the open
country. When the scrubbers had
ceased to come into the open the
stockmen closed in along the line
of scrub and drove the stores and
frightened scrubbers towards the
stockyard and as before young bulls
lowered their heads and tried to
lash into the scrub and as the
flogging and bellowing went on a
huge bull emerged from the scrub
head down and charging anywhere
and as he became visible rifles spat
their slugs into his body and the
piker pitched forward to kick his
death throes in the dust surrounding
him and inside the scrub a cow
bellowed alike someone calling a
mate, as the stockmen nursed the
mixed mob towards the huge stock-
yard to lock them up for the night.
Arriving home early in, the morning
the boys unsaddled and pouring a
bucket of water over the horses
backs and giving them to the black
boys turned in to have two hours
sleep before that days work began.
Having an easy day checking the
number of horses in a spelling
paddock each count finding the
number twenty five short so they
rode to a deep creek had a swim
and lunch with a snore off under
a shady Wilga tree until three in the
afternoon when they returned to the
station and reported the loss of the
horses to the overseer who said, did
you ride all over the paddock”?
Yes, and we observed a panel of
fence which been opened up!
Possum then said, “me abserbum
yarraman tracks through fence.”
Then Mr. Lean told them a muster
bad shown two hundred head of fat
bullocks missing and tomorrow they
were to muster the big paddock on
a far part of the huge run with a
creek running through it. That night
the boys played euchre with the
black boy and were robbed of five
dozen matches the black boys being
Worlds champions at reneaging and
bad cunning play. As they tried
to sleep the Cook kept playing the
Swanee River bn his loud Concertina
and a chorus of some 20 odd budd-
ing Caruso’s in their only way of
giving vent to their pent up feelings
in a land of scrub and open spaces.
Next days muster proved the muster
short and Bootlace, had observed the
boundry fence to the deserted
station had been tampered with and
a few panels had been knocked
down so Mr. Lean told Jackie and
his gang to load packhorses with
axes, shovels, crowbars and a few
coils of wire with tucker for a few
days and repair the job next day.
After the usual night of lessons and
singing the boys ran in the horses
and selected four used to packs then
the fun began as each horse was
harnessed with his pack they reared
up, bucked, and snorted as if it was
some strange happening but when
firmly handled they soon fell into
line and ambled on with the saddle
horses and as they passed the rail
Mr. Lean said, “I have put men
making those wings and stockyard
and when you have finished that job
you can have some fun exploring the
cattle hideout.” Both boys grinned
and rode on to catch up with the
blackboys ahead. When they arrived
at the creek Jackie selected a camp-
ing spot and before long were
repairing the fence luckily the boys
had taken two 44 rifles from the
store and the blackboys started
quarreling as to who would have the
rifles Stockwhip, and Bootlace say-
ing, “it is about time we had our
turn with the rifles” and to pacify
the boys he got four sticks two
long and two short, having quick
eyes the Emu and Possum had the
rifles while the other two sulked.
About midday everything was quiet
the fencers trying to laze the hot sun
under Wilga trees Suddenly! the
two armed boys grasped their rifles
and listened as a small herd of
horses came into view led by a small
brown entire, Emu fired and the
horse fell in a heap the startled mob
heading for dense scrub at the
gallop and in a few moments a
startled mob of large red kangaroo
headed for the fencers both boys
firing and bringing down a fine
kanga. By this time Stockwhip, and
bootlace were furious, “tose blurry
blackboy avin all ter blurry fun
you givem Stockwhip plurry rifle
Jackie”!? to even things the rifles
changed hands Possum and Emu
skinning their shoot to be tanned
for Cirsingles girths, reins, and stock-
whips. The boys belted into the
fencing and Jimmie sent Possum to
the Camp to catch some fish in the
creek Stockwhip taking a rifle to
shoot some ducks if the 44 bullet left
any duck to eat. At sunset the boys
arrived at camp to find large cod
and shrimps for each man the fish
being cooked blackfella fashion in
the coals with a mud, or clay cover-
ing and when cooked the skin came
off and the inside came out in a
solid lump having fish grease from
mouth to ears the boys had a swim
in the oreek and as Jackie came up
from a dive he was face to face with
a lovely young lubra and as he was
getting over the shock he saw others
swimming among them and after
asking Emu, “who were they” he
said, “tey cum alonga camp around
ter bend you likeum lubra tey very
good lookum lubra you watchem out
Jackie!” After swimming among
them and gazing at Jimmie and his
pal the girls swam away and
dissapeared around the bend Jackie,
and Jimmie still wondering, as they
dressed. That evening they sat by
the fire talked and watched the
inquisitive silver grey Possum sizing
them up as they scampered around
being wise, the boys covered all food
and prepared themselves for a night
of torment and they had it! One
cheeky fellow was close to Possums
face and his long face feelers touch-
ing Possums, face awoke him with a
start and as he opened his eyes he
saw two armed men intently gazing
at the sleepers in the camp. By the
time he had realised the situation
they had gone and to make sure he
arose and examined the spot where
he had seen them, indications
showed they had muffled their horses
hooves with kangaroo hide to leave
no tracks and make no noise. When
morning came he spoke to Stock-
whip and the Others who together
examined the ground where the two
men had watched the camp then they
decided to tell Jackie and his mate
v,ho decided to go to the station and
tell Mr. Lean who told Mr. Hughes
the manager who in turn called for
a blackboy to take a letter to a
distant station who were served by
Cobb and Co.
That following day the brumby
hunt was on and amid yells and
cracking of whips the frightened
cattle and horses were yarded Gosh!
what a collection 27 horses many
piker cows and bulls and also
kanga, and scrub wallaby. One big
bull had seven distinct 44 bullets in
bis tough neck hide and his mate
none a clean skin and when the
wild cattle were killed and skinned
the carcass poisoned to catch a few
dingoes, crows and eagles powerful
birds who could carry off a young
calf. The Brumby were of interest
nobody knew their origin the black-
boys saying, tem blumby bin ere
before white man all same liker
bulls and cow dey afore Capum
Cook. The white men trying to tie
them up with the then modern horse
but somehow they were different
lousy rat tails and scrawny necks
with nuggety bodies bigger than
ponies and smaller than their horses
and to Mr. Leans shame those wild
horses were also destroyed to leave
a few here and Jhere where scrub-
land prevailed. They reached the
homestead in time to hear the dinner
bell ring for hungry souls to come
and sample the crook scran placed
before them on a night when the
heat was terific stew, damper, some
boiled rice, brown sugar, cockies
joy, or molasses the food for iron
men or, men of iron. Much talk-
ing went on and in a flash two men
were bashing each other around the
hut a real ding dong mill and when
they were seperated the Cook and a
teamster decided to fight it out with
an old pair of boxing gloves. The
teamster leaning forward landed a
powerful left into Cooks tucker box
and the brawl .jvas over. That even-
ing a station hand reported the only
bore drain on the property was
stuffed with blow away grass and
the yabbies small inland lobster had
bored holes and let the water go to
waste denying the dry paddocks any
water. The next morning Jackie and
his mates armed with pitchforks and
shovels rode that drain for miles and
w'hat fun they had inticing the
yabbies out with a piece of putrid
meat tied to a short stick and cook-
ing them in a half kero tin and a
day to remember. The next day the
gang were sent to a lignum swamp
to fix a fence across a billabong
which emptied into this swamp and
when dry allowed stock to wander.
Big posts were sank five feet into
the bank and rails swing between
the overflow flood waters lifting the
logs and sometimes letting carcass of
stock and timber pass through.
As Jackie, and Possum were
carrying a heavy post a large tusker
boar charged them Jackie tried to
shin up a large tree but Possum
being recourseful swing his axe
across the chopping boars loins and
made a mess of the lump of
indignant pork.
(To be continued next week)


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1R 72.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Provincial Country Towns.
F. S. WATSON, Manager.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
NATO
T3RITISH press-comment on
** the Nato “heads-of-Govern-
ment” meeting at Paris:
London “Daily Telegraph’’:
“Nato, after all, is primarily a
military alliance, brought into
being 10 years ago by a nakedly
military threat. The threat
then came from the Soviet
Union’s superiority in conven-
tional forces. Now it comes
from her superiority in thermo-
nuclear weapons. The Soviet
Union presents many other
threats, political, economic,
technological and ideological.
“But Nato, precisely because
it is primarily a military
alliance, cannot hope to meet
them, except by doing properly
and impressively what it was
designed to do: namely, main-
tain the free world in a posture
of confident defensive strength.
“What is needed, therefore, is
not some new declaration of
the rights of man or new
slogans about peace and free-
dom, which its composition
and purpose make it unsuited
to supply; nor some new
political or economic associa-
tion which it has no effective
mandate to produce.
“What is needed first and
foremost is a new military
structure which will restore to
the West, and particularly to
the United States, an adequate
overall strength. Only if this
is done first will it be possible
to meet the other threats which
have grown exactly in propor-
tion to the decline of the free
world’s military strength.”
The same : “The Paris meet-
ing will accomplish much if
it can firmly re-establish unity
of aim and purpose. Here is
another cloud which may prove
less threatening than it looks.
But it should also strive for
unity of method. Service com-
manders, as well as Govern-
ments, are still widely divided
on strategy, and we should not
have to wait until the military
meeting next March for some
general agreement. As Mr.
Sandys [Defence Minister]
told the House of Commons,
London “News-Chronicle”
“FOR PETE’S SAKE QUIT FOOLIN’, HONEY ! —I SWEAR I AIN’T CARRYING NO
H-BOMB"
in trying to estimate the various
potential threats and dangers
one has to be something of a
crystal-gazer. But if gazing
goes on too long, the crystal
becomes more, not less,
cloudy.”
* * „ *
London “Spectator” : “There
should be no doubt about the
seriousness of the present situa-
tion. Whatever Mr. Dulles may
say, Nato’s unity will not be
rekindled by blasts of hot air
from Washington. The French
economic crisis and the war in
Algeria have pretty well
destroyed France’s effectiveness
as a member of the alliance.
Merely to ask for greater
efforts in the military sphere
or to appeal for the placing of
Nato interests above those of
individual nations would be
to meet a non possumus from
most of Western Europe. Only
some, positive political pro-
posals can hold the alliance
together or, for that matter,
achieve the purposes for which
it was formed, and vague talk
about ‘more consultation’ or
‘links’ with the Baghdad pact
or Seato is no substitute.
“Apart from the German
problem, such proposals
might take the form of closer
political association within
Nato or else of a renewed drive
towards Western European
union. The advantage of the
second course would be that it
would not merely be directed
towards combating the Soviet
Union. Inevitably Nato policy
means American policy with
modifications brought about
by the influence of America’s
allies. A more specifically
European concept of the future
of Western Europe would have
far more appeal as a political
aim as well as alarming the
Russians less.”
* * *
“Yorkshire Post”: “There are
[in Nato] political troubles and
there are military troubles. A
virus of disunity has been at
work in recent months, so that
nations which ought at this
moment to be more firmly and
securely united than ever
before appear to be squabbling
and snarling at each other like
a rabble of unkempt urchins
in a school playground.
“France is at loggerheads
with Britain and America over
arms deliveries to Tunisia.
Greece, Turkey and Britain
are locked in a disagreeable
and futile dispute over Cyprus.
Now Holland—and who in this
can blame the Dutch in the
slightest?—is caught up in the
swirl of strong emotions over
the injustice and ruthless,
greedy cruelty of the wrongs
done to her subjects and her
nationals in Indonesia,
“Militarily the pattern is no
more hopeful. There are vague
plans for the integration of
various components of the
defence forces of a number of
sovereign nations. The Dutch
and the Belgians, urged to bring
their air-forces under a single
command, retort, ‘Well, what
about the British, the French,
or the Americans for that
matter?’ The same suggestion,
made to the Danes and the
Norwegians about their navies,
gets the same logically impec-
cable but dusty answer.
“The Germans grumble and
wriggle about paying their
share of the upkeep of Nato
forces on their soil ; but they
are themselves conspicuously
laggard in making their proper
contribution, whether in man-
power or equipment, to the
common cause.
“Is it, some are tempted to
ask, a common cause any
longer? Here perhaps is the
basis of the infection. Western


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
A “must” for all
housewives —if you want
to keep them up to the
mark —are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, gar-
dening and “help”
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:— •
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—*
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
failure to outpace, or even to
keep up with, the Russians in
the development of the latest,
largest, nastiest instruments of
war; Western reliance on a
system of defence in depth
which has suddenly and
dramatically been revealed as
outmoded; the pitiful yet
bleakly characteristic fiasco of
the American rocket that
burned itself out on the launch-
ing-site—-all these are contribu-
tory factors.”
The same: “The Nato crisis
is a manifestation of the all-
pervasive crisis of the West. It
is a crisis of confidence —an
ebbing-away of faith in them-
selves and their purpose and
their destiny which affects, in
some degree, almost everyone
involved. Air-Marshals, four-
star Generals, urbane diplo-
mats loaded with stars and
crosses, and persuasive poli-
ticians are most Of them, for
all their fine lines of talk,
afflicted by it.
“This is not a new nor an
entirely disastrous experience
in human history. It was well-
nigh universal at the end of
the third and the beginning of
the fourth centuries of our era:
it was repeated in a new form
in the seventeenth. It is a stern
challenge to strong and reso-
lute souls —men of such a
calibre as Nato now needs.
For Nato’s crisis is not merely
political or military: it is a
moral crisis.”
* * *
London “Financial Times”:
“To rebuild trust is one of the
highest aims and most difficult
acts of statesmanship. Nato is
not bankrupt of trust, but the
funds have been drawn down
too heavily. The need now is
that as many countries as
possible should abandon their
own cherished errors. In finan-
cial terms this means that the
Nato Powers should revise their
desire to minimise their own
commitments at any cost. Inter-
dependence is not merely a
long word for getting the other
man to pay. The international
situation is not one in which
it is right to gamble too heavily
on low defence.
“The spirit Nato needs is
one of relatively selfless co-
operation ; the alternative is to
slide back altogether into the
petty national selfishness which
in the end would bring the
'alliance down.”
* * *
London “Time and Tide”:
“No one with any sense sup-
poses that the summit meeting
of Nato is necessary to reassess
the military strategy of the
West in the light of the
Russian sputniks and of the
Russian intercontinental missile
whose existence the sputniks
prove more convincingly than
verbal claims.
“These striking advances in
Soviet technique have small
military importance at present.
Both the Russians and the
Western Powers possess
virtually equivalent means of
creating widespread destruc-
tion within a few minutes of a
decision to do so. The fact
that the Russians have longer-
range missiles is outweighed by
the more numerous and widely
scattered air-bases of the West,
which, in spite of Mr. Khrush-
chev’s boasts, could not con-
ceivably be all put out of action
at once. As General Norstad
said: ‘There has been no
change in the military balance.
In addition to rockets and
missiles, we have a fine family
of manned aircraft with
hundreds of bases around the
world from which the enemy
can be reached.’
“In truth, the alliance is in
a bad way, and all its members,
with the possible exception of
Canada, have contributed in
one way or another to Nato’s
enfeeblement. We are now far
from 1949, when the Western
nations made their great
decision to start from scratch
and build a force capable of
resisting Russian aggression.
Nato has indeed grown in
military force, but lost in
internal cohesion. In talking
of Nato’s enfeeblement, we do
not mean the problems' and dis-
putes which have recently
arisen about interdependence,
over the location of guided-
missile sites or over an alleged
attempt at Anglo-American
domination of Nato. These are
serious enough, but they are
perfectly solvable. Far more
serious are the cankers at the
root of the alliance, the two
most important being that of
Cyprus and that of the rela-
tions between the United States
and her two principal partners,
Britain and France.
“The purpose of Nato has,
from the beginning, been a
simple one —that of containing
Soviet Communist aggression
in Europe and the Middle East.
This purpose does not imply
complete unity of policy on all
matters between members of
Nato ; but it does imply a unity
of policy in strategic areas, and
it is the absence of this unity
which is the main cause of
Nato’s ineffectiveness. Western
disunity is the main reason
why, in the Middle East, the
Western Alliance has totally
failed to contain active Com-
munist influence and only just
failed to discourage military
aggression.
“It was in large part due to
American pressure and to
American policy in Cairo that
Britain evacuated the Suez


Canal without terms which
bound Egypt to the West.
When, in 1955, Britain and
France sought means to
counter Colonel Nasser’s
seizure of the Suez Canal
Company, it was American
diplomacy which very largely
negatived any positive result.
And later, when Britain and
France embarked, on the Suez
campaign which with an ounce
more iron determination would
have succeeded and would have
rallied the support of the
nations of Europe and of the
vast majority of the British
people, it was very largely the
American Government which
caused the campaign to fail.
“And then again the
responsibility, direct and
indirect, of the United States
for France’s difficulties in
North Africa, is very great,
beginning as it does with
President Roosevelt’s ill-timed
promises to Arab nationalism
in 1944. Of course, nobody
supposes that Britain and the
United States should have
endorsed all French policies in
North Africa since the war —
indeed these have been so
inconsistent that it would have
been impossible to do so. But
if the United States had shown
a greater solidarity with France
there would, undoubtedly, have
been closer consultation, and
perhaps some of the errors of
French policy—such as the
lunatic act of exiling the present
King of Morocco in 1953 —
might have been avoided.
“If Nato is to continue to
function usefully the Paris
meeting must mark the
beginning of a global alliance.”
H-bombs Over Europe
Comment on the news that
U.S. planes are flying over
Europe laden with H-bombs
was not so entirely hysterical
as some cabled excerpts
suggested. The following
editorial com men t, from
London “Daily Telegraph,” is
a fair sample of more respon-
sible British opinion:
“The alternative would be
far more disturbing. As is now
all too well known, the Soviet
Union has been making
immense progress in its
capacity to launch inter-
continental ballistic missiles.
This means that we are moving
into a period when the Russians
wiil be able to launch crippling
rocket attacks on Nato bases
throughout the Western world.
It is not theoretically impos-
sible, therefore, that in one
immense Pearl Harbor surprise
attack all the West’s ground
air-bases might receive simul-
taneous knock-out blows. But
they could not blow up the
air and anything in the air
would survive.
“Socialist concern, therefore,
is not only misplaced ; it also
shows an ignorance of the basic
fact of contemporary deter-
rence. The Socialists are cast-
ing doubts about the one sure
way in which the deterrent
policy, which the Labor
Government started and the
Labor party has since often
endorsed, can actually be made
to work. Nor is there any
danger of one of these H-bomb-
carrying aircraft crashing on
these islands [British] and
inadvertently exploding its
deadly weapon.
“Next comes the question of
‘consultation’ before these air-
craft are ordered to retaliate.
An Anglo-American agreement
exists under which the
Americans have undertaken
not to use their aircraft in this
country without the British
Government’s accord. But in
the event of a Russian nuclear
attack on us or any other Nato
London “Daily Mail”
WHAT! NO TIP?
ally the Americans must clearly
take this accord for granted.
The time factor just does not
allow consultations, except of
the most cursory and urgent
kind.
“Arguments about who
should consult whom are not
only academic, but also
dangerous. If America’s allies
were to insist that they should
be consulted and their agree-
ment sought before use of the
American retaliatory weapon,
it would only be a matter of
time before the United States
claimed the same right if they
were not directly attacked. So
far, the Americans have
renounced this luxury for
themselves.
“Nor should we forget, as an
illustration of the United
States willingness to allow us
to commit her, that when the
Russians, at the time of Suez,
threatened to direct missiles at
Britain and Cyprus, the United
States made it quite clear that
such an act would lead to
American nuclear retaliation.”
"Goofnik,"
"Oops-nik," etc.
U.S., British and French
comment on Uncle Sam’s
satellite troubles.
“Yorkshire Post”: “While
the Americans were thinking
ruefully that it might be another
month before they could make
a fresh attempt to send up their
satellite (the Vanguard rocket
carrying the first having
exploded on its launching
stand), he [Khrushchev] was
commenting patronisingly on
their efforts. He was sure the
United States sputnik would be
launched ‘sooner or later’; the
Russians, he said, had been
waiting for it.
“And not content with
remarks in this vein which
must make the Americans even
more determined to get their
sputnik out into space as
quickly as possible —he
suggested they had behaved in
an ungentlemanly manner by
not returning the carrier-rocket
of the Soviet Sputnik I to its
rightful owners after it had
landed in the United States.
‘We relied on their decency,’
he is reported to have said, ‘but
they did not live up to it.’
“The American State Depart-
ment has said that it has no
idea where the rocket might
be ; and it would be pardon-
able to doubt whether Mr.
Khrushchev himself is very
sure about it. To accuse the
Americans of concealing it —
with the implication they are
so backward in these things
that they will want to study the
Soviet design—could be a neat
way of avoiding a confession
of Russian ignorance.
“But Mr. Khrushchev has the
advantage where sputniks are
concerned. The Soviet sputniks
were not merely the first, they
were launched without advance
publicity. How many times
might a Soviet launching rocket
have exploded without anyone
being allowed to tell the tale?
We do not know, but the
Russians are no more than
human, and it is quite likely
that they fumbled sometimes.
“Mr. Khrushchev is entitled
to give the greatest publicity to
Soviet achievements, but in
implying that the Americans
are not merely incompetent
(which they are far from being)
but unscrupulous he is surely
overreaching himself.”
* * *
New York “Herald Tribune”:
“In Paris the French, referring
to the 6in. sphere as a grape-
fruit ( pamplemousse ), began
offering chagrined Americans
grapefruit - juice instead of
aperitifs.
“Well, it was funny enough
when delay was the only joke.
But when Latenik blew up in
the face of its makers, the
American people scarcely knew
whether to cry or to laugh—cry
at what was an intolerable
national humiliation, or laugh
at its inherent absurdity. By
mid-afternoon the irrepressible
American character had
asserted itself on the laughing
side. New names were being
offered on all sides: ‘When-nik,’
‘lf - nik,’ ‘Oops - nik,’ and,
perhaps the aptest one of all,
simply ‘Goofnik.’
“But the laughter was bitter
and the humiliation remained.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GREGORY REX O’BRIEN.—
TAKE NOTICE that JOAN MARGARET
O’BRIEN has filed a Petition for
Divorce in Suit No. 3070 of 1957 on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 24th February 1958 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from J. C. RICKARD,
SYMONDS & CO., Solicitors, of 67
Castlereagh Street, S y d n e y.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
( Incorporated in the British Colony of Bono Kong.}
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £19,800,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 813 ! (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
The surprise was not so much
at the failure, for the men in
charge of the Vanguard project
had warned that on this first
test of a complete Vanguard
missile a thousand things could
go wrong., The anger was that
officials, knowing the chances
of a misfire (the Soviets are
known to have had a dozen
or more in testing their own
satellite vehicles), nevertheless
allowed this first test to be held
publicly, as if in a goldfish-
bowl, and with boastful prior
announcements of what the
satellite would do when it got
aloft.
“The American mood after
the failure of Goofnik was that
the people in Washington
should damn’ well keep quiet
until they have a grapefruit, or
at least something, orbiting
around up there, and until
they do, just shut up.”
* * *
' Paris ( Leftist ) “Liberation':
“The circus atmosphere which
surrounded the try-outs of
‘Pamplemousse’ had some-
thing in it which is flabbergast-
ing. All the usual American
publicity set-up was mobilised:
admirals, generals, politicians
multiplied bragging and
ridiculous declarations. After
such a show, one can easily
measure the disappointment of
the American people and the
bitterness of the scientists—the
great scientists who were
forced to work in this circus
atmosphere.”
* * *
“Paris-Journal": “People will
no doubt have a lot of fun over
the somewhat burlesque mis-
adventures of ‘Pamplemousse.’
People will be in the wrong,
however, if they fail to see
what is appealing and even
reassuring for the world in the
American frankness. More-
over, the race for space devices
has just started. No one has
yet said the last word.”
* * m
London “Economist": “There
is a suspicion that at' the last
moment the Administration
pressed the scientists to try
to get their satellite into orbit
before they were ready, for the
sake of providing a psycho-
logical answer, even if only
a faint one, to the Russian
sputnik. Certainly the Adminis-
tration belatedly recognised
that the Vanguard had military
importance as a propaganda
weapon in the cold war, even
if it was not usable in a hot
one.
“In these circumstances the
spokesmen of the Department
of Defence who were handing
out press-releases and answer-
ing questions with such un-
usual freedom might at least
have emphasised, as the respon-
sible scientists were doing, that
the projected experiment was
liable to flop, that it was only
a preliminary to the launch-
ing of a full-scale satellite,
which is not due until March,
New York "Herald Tribune“
HARD TO HOLD
and that its failure would not
mean that America’s military
missiles were also inefficient.
“The department was
certainly to blame for making
the disaster worse than it need
have been, but its very magni-
tude served to explode any
remnant of complacency which
had remained after the sput-
nik.”
* * *
London “Time and Tide” :
“Vice-President Nixon did a
public service to the world as
well as to his own nation by
calling on the Americans to
get off their Wailing Wall. The
American rocket .was a failure,
but, as Nixon bluntly asserted,
it was not the first failure nor
will it be the last. What truly
alarmed all well-wishers of the
United States and the Atlantic
Alliance was not the discon-
certing but minor setback of
the fiasco at Cocoa Beach,
but the reaction of the
American public.
“It must be said that
Americans have long nourished
a totally inflated notion of their
own technical superiority over
the rest of the world. It was
time that this balloon of self-
sufficiency was pricked, but it
is most unfortunate that it
should be pricked by a Russian
sputnik. The mercurial
American people have
apparently gone from the
heights of self-confidence to
something like the depths of
self-reproach and anxiety.
“The Defence Department
were not to blame for the
advance publicity which back-
fired as badly as the rocket.
They were by no means sure of
the success of their highly
experimental project and did
all they could to keep the
experiment in fitting obscurity.
It was sharp-nosed journalists
who informed the world what
was going to happen before it
did .not happen ; it is they who
should bear the blame for the
world-wide advertisement of a
not very important reverse.
“American disappointment
and anger would have been
much less damaging to the
cause of the free world if the
failure of the rocket had not
coincided’with such unfortunate
neatness with the third failure
of the President’s health. How-
ever unreasonable it may be,
Americans cannot fail to link
one failure with the other. It
was extremely injudicious of
Mr. Sherman Adams to say
that the impact of the Presi-
dent’s personality is as powerful
as ever it was. It raises the
question that is being asked
with increasing disquiet in
America and in friendly
countries abroad. Was the
President’s impact, even in the
best of health, ever sufficient
for the dire responsibilities of
his office?
“So far as he has any
responsibility for the Cocoa
Beach affair, it is the respon-
sibility of a man who has
steadily refused to make
decisive and authoritative
decisions and has left it to
warring departments to fight
out crucial issues among them-
selves. President Roosevelt did-,
exactly the same, but at least
he gave the impression of being
master of events even when he
did not understand them.
“Cocoa Beach has two
lessons for Americans. One ts
that they cannot afford to do
without the brains and know-
ledge of their allies, the other
is that they can afford to do
without the faltering though
well-meaning control of Presi-
dent Eisenhower. Can they
afford to continue with that
faltering control? That is a
question that is not most wisely
answered in an atmosphere
which combines petulance and
panic.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
“Time Payment”
Much can be added to
“Waddlin’ Willie’s” comment
on time - payment (B.
20/11/’57).
Seeing an advertisement for
a stove of which the ordinary
selling-price for cash or
monthly account is £139 15s.
at no deposit and 245. weekly,
I asked from the firm the
number of weeks necessary—
usually conveniently con-
cealed. I found that it would
be 156 weeks at 245. a week,
or a total of £lB7 45., an
amount of £47 ss. over the
£139 155., or over 33| per cent.
Then there was the motor-
mower which is sold retail at
£39 19s. 6d. It was advertised
at no deposit and 6s. a week.
I found that 177 payments of
6s. a week were necessary.
These would total £53 25., an
increase of £l3 2s. 6d. on the
ordinary price, equivalent to
33j per cent., which is a good
moneylending business to be
in.
The firms today which are
selling on no deposit are really
moneylenders; they want
people to buy lines on which
they will be able to levy
interest.
To protect buyers, who often
have no idea what they are
being let in for—and also to
protect the legitimate merchant
—the Government should pass
the following legislation:
Merchants selling on no
deposit and charging high
interest-rates must, on price-
tickets, in catalogues, and in
their advertisements, state the
number of weeks the instal-
ments would have to apply,
and then set out the total
amount of what could be
termed the “ultimate” price.—
Ash (Q.).
Local Government
“Y. Mee” (B. 11/12/’57)
asserts that I am right off the
beam if I think that local
authority in N. S. Wales is
“limited in powers and answer-
able for its actions to rate-
payers.”
My remarks (B. 13/11/’57)
referred solely to a suggestion
for a Greater Melbourne
Council; I made no mention
whatever of local-government
in N. S. Wales, with which —
fortunately, it seems —I have
no personal acquaintance.
In Victoria, the powers of
municipal councils are very
definitely limited by the Local
Government Act. In matters
relating to building, for
example, a home-owner can
appeal against a council’s
decision to the State Building
Regulations Committee a
body on which architects,
builders and other organisa-
tions have nominees.
This committee, incidentally,
was responsible for home-
owners being granted the right
to build car-ports ; its recom-
mendation to the State Govern-
ment was adopted in the face
of strong and long-standing
opposition by municipal
authorities. It also squashed
council proposals for collecting
fees on all TV aerials.
As to levying increased rates,
some Victorian councils tried
this recently and evoked storms
of protest from ratepayers. In
some instances they were com-
pelled to back down on their
demands.
Local-government in Vic-
toria is not perfect by any
means ; but by and large our
municipal councils do a pretty
good job. The real threat to
the rights of property -
owners lies not in the demo-
cratically elected local
authorities, but in such
autocratic bodies as the Hous-
ing Commission, which appears
to be a law unto itself, confis-
cates property as if title-deeds
were worthless scraps of paper,
and shabbily recompenses
owners for their loss. An all-
powerful Greater Melbourne
Council would be tempted to
act with similar disregard for
ratepayers, and that’s why it is
not favored by Victorians
generally.
If local - government in
N.S.W. is as dirty as “Y. Mee”
suggests, it is time that he and
other dissatisfied citizens in that
State did something about it. —
Wusslean (Vic.).
Income-tax
As part of a “new deal” for
Australian universities, the
Federal Government has stated
that the salaries of professors,
will rise by £5OO a year, of
which the Commonwealth will
find £125. That sort of
“generosity” fools nobody.
The proposed salary-rise
would put all professors into
a tax - bracket in which,
unless they could claim big
deductions, they would have to
pay about £213 more in
“Now, you haven't any children, have you?”
income-tax. Thus the Federal
Government gets back its £125,
plus another £88!
Heaven knows what
anomalies like these eventually
cost the country. They have
been little short of a calamity
in Britain, where many people
have simply declined to earn
more on the ground that it
would only go in taxes. —
Ex-R.S.M. (S.A.).
Pyramids, etc.
Fred Aarons does an injustice
to Pharaoh Khufu (Cheops) in
claiming that his Pyramid-
building was dictated purely by
desire for glorification of the
Royal house, and that the work
was done by cruelly exploited
forced labor (B. 11/12/’57).
Leading Egyptologists have
stressed that the Pyramid-
building was the work of free
laborers, done when flooding
of the Nile made work on the
land impossible. The peasantry,
unable to maintain extensive
reserves of food, would other-
wise have been on short
commons for a time. Work on
the Pyramids kept them fed,
and, in many cases, housed as
well. Pyramid-building was, in
effect, a public work that used
labor which would otherwise
have been idle and poverty-
stricken.
In the long history of Ancient
Egypt there was naturally con-
siderable variation in social
conditions, but during the best
eras, such as that of Cheops and
later of the great kings of the
Xllth Dynasty, the masses were
not oppressed serfs. Workers
did not hesitate to strike when
dissatisfied—a sure sign of spirit
and of reasonable benevolence
on the part of the Government.
The authority of the Pharaohs
rested primarily on popular
acquaintances. There was no
police-force and the Army was
only of moderate size and was
kept mainly on the frontiers.
Theoretically, the Pharaohs
owned the land, but in practice
individual rights and private
property were recognised. As
Margaret Alice Murray points
out in her admirable short study
of Ancient Egypt, The Splendor
That Was Egypt: —
Even the poorest of the poor
could approach the God and make
known his complaints. It was
possible for individuals of all classes
, to attain an ordinary degree of com-
fort and prosperity, and live average
happy lives.
On the other hand, the Pto-
lemaic regime, which controlled
Egypt from the conquest by
Alexander the Great to the
occupation of the country by
Rome, presents a close analogy
w'ith modern Soviet Russia.
This regime, founded by


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/-
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £B/18/6 Foreign .... £B/6/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
Ptolemy, one of Alexander's
generals, was Socialist in
character. There was lavish
patronage of science, art and
letters, but albat the expense of
the well-being of the great
mass of the people. Indeed the
main beneficiaries of the regime
were Greeks —the same race as
the dynasty and ruling class.
Margaret Murray paints a
depressing picture of the
regime. Outside the glittering
faqade of Alexandria the
country was bled white.
The peasantry were bound to
the soil and heavily taxed.
Their crops were not their own,
but the Government’s. A horde
of officials supervised every
agricultural operation.. There
was also strict State control of
all forms of trade. Certain
branches were State
monopolies:
All private industries were heavily
taxed. Raw materials had to be
bought from the State. The State
was also a trader, and by its agents
tree trading was finally crushed.
Centralisation and exploitation were
the principles on which the
Ptolemies acted.
Thus wealth came into the
hands of the few and enabled
them to build the great temples
which excited the wonder of
visitors, and made Alexandria
the marvel of the East. But
the country was rapidly relaps-
ing into barbarism when it fell
to Rome. Farinmail
(N.S.W.).
Night Work
Occupational hazards attend
most jobs in one form or
another, yet the lot of the shift-
worker, in particular the night-
shift-worker, seems to merit
special examination.
The working time-span of
many shift-workers goes
beyond midnight, thereby
running counter to the natural
law which decrees that man
is healthier and more efficient
when working in daylight and
sleeping by night. This is no
idle theory. For youth, per-
haps, adverse results are not
apparent, but the middle-aged
are clearly- burdened by a loss
of normal social intercourse,
frequent periods of indifferent
health and, often enough, the
inability to get adequate rest
and recreation.
What difficulties night-work
imposes on such people as
policemen, radio-announcers,
tram-drivers, railway employees
or prison officials, I do not
know. However, personal
experience of morning-news-
paper work revealed a common
pattern of rather lonely wives,
children who were almost
“strangers” to their fathers and
too many journalistic fathers
frequenting the pub in search
of companionship and some-
thing else not so easily defined.
A canvass among some news-
papermen in Melbourne shows
that several left the game
chiefly because of the night-
work involved. It may be
significant, also, that the
divorce-rate among journalists
is fairly high, occupationally
speaking, as is drinking. Both
may be linked with the work-
ing hour^s.
One unsatisfactory aspect of
morning-newspaper work is the
unimaginative allocation of
assignments. A five-nights-a-
week man may have that shift
for years without any appreci-
able break ; d Sunday worker
toils week after week on the
. Sabbath regardless of his own
or family’s weekend plans.
Little is done on a long-range
basis to cater reasonably for
personal needs.
Night-work does not involve
a great number in the com-
munity, yet such workers are
essential to the economy. Those
competent to examine the ques-
tion scientifically would do a
considerable service by record-
ing and publishing their find-
ings.—Xavier (Vic.).
Coldstream Guards
“Sousa” is wrong in saying
(B. 20/11/’57) that the oldest
of the seven regiments of the
Household Brigade is the
Grenadier Guards. The Cold-
stream Guards have that dis-
tinction. They were formed in
1650 by Cromwell, who gave
the command to Monk. When
Charles II was restored to the
throne he found himself com-
pelled to agree to the abandon-
ment of all the Army, except
a household brigade of 5000
men sanctioned by Parliament.
Monk’s Coldstream Guards
were retained and the first
regiment of Guards was
formed. Monk became the
Duke of Albemarle. The Cold-
stream Guards’ existence was
practically unbroken by the
ceremony of laying down its
arms on Tower Hill and taking
them up again.
“Sousa” may have been mis-
led by the fact that the Cold-
stream Guards have not
seniority of position; this is
because the regiment was
originally formed to fight
against the Crown, not for it.
The oldest regiment in the
British Army, by the way; is
the Royal • Scots, formed as
such in 1633. A battalion of
the Royal Scots (the Royal
Regiment) served in Korea in
the last stoush as a unit of the
British Commonwealth
Division. If I recall correctly,


there was a bit of bother over
tactical numbers allocated. At
the start, one other battalion
in the brigade which included
the Royal Scots had been
allocated a lower number (Tac.).
The latter was quickly righted,
however. — Entali (Q).
“The Moon-Crashers”
Norman Lindsay could have
been more restrained in “The
Moon-Crashers” (B. 23 /10/’57).
“Admitted that mentalities
which resort to the mechanical
logic of figures are devoid of
any logical faculty.” Who
admits that? Norman Lindsay?
“The loons who evolved that
absurd time - factor” (4000-
million years for the age of
the earth) probably have
logical brains every bit as good
as his. Maybe man as a
whole “cannot face the terror
of timelessness,” but those
scientists who puzzle over the
origin and age of the earth have
no such fear of eternity. They
regard it as a scientific problem
to be solved, just as Norman
Lindsay must have set himself
to solve artistic problems.
Also, to geologists, physicists
and mathematicians, 4000-
million years is anything but a
ridiculous figure and very far
removed indeed from eternity,
with which N.L. thinks it
should be equated. The only
way to dispense with “their
ridiculous sums” is to dispense
with scientists. (Considering the
prevalent feeling of insecurity
because of the terribly destruc-
tive power of today’s weapons,
many would think that a good
thing. They would be reluctant,
though, to part with the many
comforts scientists have also
discovered and invented.)
To anyone who has a sound
scientific training, N.L.’s un-
restrained language is far from
logic.—M. T. Pezet (Fiji).
Curing Bodgieism
There is a pathetic belief
that providing amenities, youth-
centres and what-have-you
will divert the anti-social
activities of our bodgies and
widgies and at least sub-
stantially decrease the incidence
of juvenile delinquency.
It will not work. The
youngsters who are training for
a skilled trade or profession
(the ones most worthy of
recreational aids) will be too
busy with their classes or
studying, a few potential
bodgies may be diverted, but
the real nuisances will give the
centres a miss.
The boys’ clubs of 50 years
ago did not stop larrikinism,
or even decrease it. The
Y.M.C.A., the church clubs of
later years, and the Boy Scouts
(the best of all youth-move-
ments) have not prevented
bodgieism or increasing
juvenile crime. A new lot of
centres, even if staffed by
trained leaders (if they can
be got), will do no better.
Youth-centres of any kind
need organisation, organisation
presupposes discipline, and
discipline is the one thing
bodgies and potential bodgies
just will not accept. As they
see it, they finished with disci-
pline at school or get more
than they want at work; their
free time is their own to do
with as they please.
Another point is that bodgie-
types are just that largely
because they were not much
good at games or lessons when
at school. With the onset of
adolescence they feel the need
to display themselves. Lacking
skill at games and any taste for
learning or cultural interests,
they fall back on street-corner
rowdyism, vandalism, motor-
driving and weird dancing, and
often graduate to assault or
theft just to show off.
The orderly activities of a
youth-centre are not for these.
They will not attend, or if
they do it will only be to
muck-up. An indication of the
difficulty of holding even
average decent lads in a good
recreational organisation is
seen in the small proportion of
Boy Scouts who stay on to
become Rovers. A crew of
about 15 was the total for my
one-time district of five troops
of about 100 scouts.
Our youth is already over-
catered for in the matter of
diversions. Never before have
they been so well provided
with everything they need —-
except discipline. Living-
standards are higher, spending-
money more plentiful, more
diversions are available, magis-
trates and judges are more
lenient. Police, prelates and
parents are all more capable
and understanding. Nothing
is lacking but discipline, and
that, apparently, is the one
thing that will not be given
them.
Explain the reason with the
lads and lasses! First catch
them and get them to listen,
then watch them make the’r
own arrangements. Unfor-
tunately, organisation requires
discipline, and discipline must
be backed up by punishment,
as there is always an outlaw,
a nark or a try-on expert who
will have to be punished.
Since we do not believe in
discipline, our youth is being
brought up on a “self-deter-
mination-for-youth” basis. All
right, then, but we will have
to put up with our bodgies and
delinquents. The cure for
delinquency (whether rowdy-
ism, vandalism or real crime)
is punishment till it hurts. —
Ex-Scouter (Q.).
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 467
Across
I—The1 —The fattest fruit may be spoilt by it. (8)
s—The identical Diana is sighted during Saturday in
France. (6)
10— French and German articles passed a promontory
characteristic of the sly. (15)
11 — They’re close to the century when one is a minor to North
characters born between mid-March and mid-April. (13)
12— Yours Truly is first about wrath. (3)
13 — Shylock was always ready to take
this American city of Chaldea.
Why? (5)
14 — Censor a malicious gossip against
love. (4)
15 — The talk of the over-voluble sack
is back. (3)
18—Queer spirit. (3)
20 —Faculty which ruins the star. (4)
22—Way to address a lady cuckoo
before morning. (5)
26 — Influential Moslem theme of
three notes in music. (3)
27 — Tickles and glances may be
dangerous, with such a gamp
paddock. (8, 5)
28— Imposer suggests this grievance
of a single girl who has been
sadly imposed upon. (6, 2,7)
29 — Hurried outhouse where the
American prosecutor is
accommodated. (6)
30— It’s green (anagram). (8)
Down
1 — Fruitmaker of crooning noises
is still sounding. (8)
2 Fairy to vomit after dinner? (6)
3 The old man rips the old man
and the old woman. (7)
4 They go out after venison rolls.
(8)
6 Land conjunctions with an
honored artist. (7)
7 Lift the little electric light girl
on a rocky mountain. (8)
8— Don’t be half-hearted in asking
sits, for instance. (6)
9 You have dinner in a stopping
place on the Venice-Vienna line.
(5)
16— Drinking resort to pronounce
a benediction without a jag. (8)
17 —Partly closed boy with a dandy
printer’s measure. (4-4)
19 —Characteristic of the ungenerous
mess in which a girl finds herself.
(8)
21 —Electra manufactures this by-
product of the sugar industry. (7)
23 — The sound of a successful service
solvent used in making chloro-
form. * (7)
24 — Checked mongrel might be
expected to sleep in it. (6)
25 — The impolite may use it to
advance the Spanish gesture of
politeness. (5)
26 — Give some “wrinkles” to Davies
in secret. (6)
Solution to Crossword No. 466


PETE’S BANK
Short Story by GEORGE MESZAROS
Ujl’S as safe as a bank-
-1 account. If I need some
JL money I just go and get
it. No trouble at all!”
That was the most he would
say, Peter (I think I’d better not
tell you his real name), no
matter how many times we
questioned him, how we
insisted. We were determined
to find out how he did it but
none of us succeeded in clear-
ing up the, mystery. Peter
remained silent. Sometimes he
added:
“You’d like to find out,
wouldn’t you?”
Would we? It was our
greatest worry how to make a
little money. And it seemed
to be the last thing our friend,
Peter was ever worried about.
He was a funny little chap,
about sft. tall. Almost every-
body called him Shorty. They
didn't like him very much,
some wouldn’t even talk to
him. He was always neatly
dressed, he had never been
seen without his portfolio,
always had enough money and
cigarettes on him, and conse-
quently he was always cheer-
ful All these and the surround-
ing air of mystery had been
most annoying to all of us.
How Peter managed to defy the
hardship of those days of exile
puzzled us very much.
For us refugees from Central
Europe those after-the-war
times were hard in Paris.
Work and consequently money
was very scarce. It was an
offence to take a job without a
carte de travail, and to get one
amounted to a major achieve-
ment through the friendly but
sinister channels of French
bureaucracy. And even with
the precious document in hand
it was almost impossible to find
decent work.
Some managed to get employ-
ment as servants or kitchen-
hands, others had dubious
associations with elderly
countesses. Very few had
succeeded in starting any busi-
ness, covering up with a French
gerant who also pocketed
nearly all of the meagre profits.
But for most of us it was only
occasional work, and regular
visits to the 1.R.0. and other
aid societies.
We never knew how we were
going to pay last week’s hotel-
bills. And to have enough
money for a loaf of bread and
a packet of cigarettes was
always strangely relaxing. To
have something to go with the
bread was luxury. But our
friend Peter was apparently
exempt from all these miseries,
which, I think, explains why he
became so unpopular.
I rather liked him, myself.
It was only occasionally that he
got on my nerves. I got used
“It’s all right, mate, the hotel management only charges
y' for any WILFUL damage .”
to him and we were often to-
gether. Then the prospect of
an early emigration popped up
suddenly, and with it the hope
of ending the struggle for
existence. I forgot all about
Peter’s bank. The excitement
of those weeks, the prepara-
tions, didn’t leave time for
much else. Not that I didn’t see
Peter ; on the contrary, we were
to leave France together.
"IvrOT long before our
scheduled departure we
were both in the 1.R.0. build-
ing. It was one of those end-
less interviews or medical
inspections we were queued-up
for when Peter abruptly
changed the subject of our
discussion.
“Tonight will be the last time
I’ll go out for money. I have
enough saved up for the
remaining few days. If you
want to come with me it’s all
right. I’ll show you how simple
it is. Safe as a bank.”
He said all this very casually
and at once my old feeling of
puzzlement returned.
“No kidding,” he said, “and
it will be only to you I will
show it. Besides, since it will
be my last transaction, I’m not
worried about competition any
more.”
“O.K. then,” I said ; “where
and when do we meet?”
“Make it haJf-past-ten in
front of the Casino theatre.”
“Very well, I’ll be there,” I
promised, and I was —early.
The crowd, usually heavy on
the Champs Elysees before the
last show, had become thinner,
and the ten-o’clock session had
started.
I was still looking at the dis-
play of pictures when at half-
past-ten Peter appeared, port-
folio in hand.
“Hello, George!”
“Hello, Peter!”
“This ought to be a good
one.” He pointed at the film-
advertisement. “I haven’t seen
it yet, have you?”
He should have known better
than that. To go to the pictures
in those days was more than a
luxury, it was . . . well, only
Peter could afford it. •
“But I don’t know how . . .”
I protested. “I mean, unless
you invite me . . . besides, it’s
already started; nearly inter-
val”—
“Who wants to see the news-
reel and those silly cartoons?”
He cut me short. “The main
picture hasn’t started yet. And
we don’t need tickets anyway.
Just leave it to me. Let’s go!”
“0.K.,” I said and we headed
for the entrance. He knows
one of the usherettes, I thought;
he has all sorts of girl-friends.
“Not that way, you mUg!”
He grabbed my arm. “You’ll
never get in that way. Follow
me!”
A FEW people came out, then
more. It was interval-
time. Some were coming out
for a smoke ; others for good.
We went a few yards up the
Champs Elysees, then turned
into a side-street. At the side-
exit of the cinema Peter pushed
his way in, dragging me behind
him. He was murmuring some-
thing about having forgotten
our hats and went ahead down
the dim corridor without hesita-
tion. We turned into the men’s
room, and when we emerged
inside the theatre darkness was
descending on us.
I noticed that Peter dropped
a coin, rather loudly, into the
attendant’s plate in the men’s
room. I felt convinced that he
did that for a good reason.
Alibi perhaps? Anyway,
everything went smoothly, but
it was very exciting, for me at
least. We sat down on two
nearby stalls. Nobody bothered
about us and we watched the
picture.
When it was over and we
were carried out through the
front of the theatre with the
crowd I realised that I had
nearly forgotten about Peter's
bank. It must be still to come,
I said to myself, for Peter has
done nothing yet about making
money.
“Say, Pete,” I said, “that was
all very nice and cheap, but
what would you have done if
they had become suspicious and
asked for tickets?”
“No trouble at all!” he said,
and took two tickets out of his
pocket. “Come on, come on,
we haven’t much time! ”
He completely ignored my
(Continued on page 57)


Ors
MOOf
100 % Australian-
made from Aus-
tralian Material
LYSAGHTS
ESTABLISHED 1884
WIRE NETTING • FENCING WIRE • BARBED WIRE
WIRE NAILS
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Oar MARKER
in every Roll of Netting
m
i
: v ;
■
ZINC OXIDE
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
LYSAGHT BROS. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road,
Tive Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
AGRICULTURAL POLICIES
A RECENT Melbourne
University Press publica-
tion, D. B. Wiffiams’s Economic
and Technical Problems of
Australia’s Rural Industries, is
not everybody’s cup of tea:
but for those who like to
consider carefully - balanced
It is claimed that the
new cobalt pellet will
give immunity from
phalaris staggers to
sheep grazing in the
very productive
phalaris - dominant
pastures. Here is a
development which,
like the Elastrator
Rubber Ring, should
remove anxiety from
the grazier’s mind.
By using the rubber
ring for marking and
tailing lambs instead
of the knife, graziers
are finding an effec-
tive method to reduce
losses and minimise
shock and set-back
and susceptibility to
disease.
arguments, carefully docu-
mented, on a variety of sub-
jects in which everyone on the
land is interested, to a greater
or less degree—price and
marketing policies; taxation ;
capital and credit; land-
resources and land-use ; land-
settlement schemes ; mechanisa-
tion ; pest-control; pasture-
improvement ; scientific and
advisory services—the book
can be heartily recommended.
In 1955 Dr. Williams was
asked by the International
Conference of Agricultural
Economists at Helsinki to pre-
pare a review of Australian
agricultural production and
price policies. The present
book grew from that review.
Compromise, in Dr.
Williams’s opinion, is one of
the major characteristics of
Australia’s rural policy:
‘‘There are many conflicting
and alternative policy - goals,
and many conflicting and
alternative measures to imple-
ment these goals. Our rural
policy is now ja somewhat
heterogeneous collection of
seemingly unrelated measures
taken at different times. They
represent an inch gained here, a
battle lost there, and a whole
host of compromise solutions
which were accepted as the
only practicable outcome at the
time when the particular
decision was taken. Thus it
may well be that from time
to time one of the several
alternative policy-goals reigned
supreme—if only for a moment
—and left its mark permanently
on the programme adopted to
implement it.
“For example, the desire for
stability in prices received by
farmers from year to year has
found expression in the stabi-
lisation schemes which are so
important in Australian agricul-
ture ; the desire to increase
efficiency is expressed in the
increasing participation by
Governments in extension-
services to farmers, and also
in the provisions of the taxa-
tion law; the goal of greater
equality in incomes between
different producers is imple-
mented by the progressive rates
of income tax and by the
averaging provisions of the
taxation law which, in broad
terms, apply only to producers
with income below £4OOO per
annum ; other important policy-
goals have been the desire for
decentralisation (to which
much lip-service has been paid)
and, perhaps most important of
all, the desire to achieve
economic growth measured in
the main by an increase in
population.
“The hallmarks of compro-
mise referred to above reflect
the confusion of recent policy
in regard to agriculture.
Clearly, many of the measures
are designed to achieve objec-
tives, and are not objectives
themselves. For example, the
emphasis on rural develop-
ment, which emerged in 1952,
was not specifically designed to
increase the welfare of primary-
producers, or even the efficiency
of resource-use in rural dis-
tricts, which are the two major
components of rural policy
recognised by Schultz. Instead,
there have been much less
specific policy-goals for the
rural industry, because the
main concern has been with
the balance of payments. This
submergence of rural policies
in general economic policy has
been the second major charac-
teristic of Australian agricul-
tural policy.”
In a closely reasoned book
of this kind it is very difficult
to quote, but, with that quali-
fication kept in mind, the above
does give some indication of
the author’s thought and
purpose; what may, perhaps,
be loosely termed the logic of
the book. It is here, in this
reviewer’s opinion, that
Economic and Technical
Problems of Australia’s Rural
Industries differs strikingly
from a majority of other
publications dealing in general
terms with agriculture in Aus-
tralia. Most of these are
admirable as reference-books
or as condensations of a mass
of specialised knowledge, but
have little value as contribu-
tions to constructive thought
on national issues.
Dr. Williams’s book has,
however, a secondary or
perhaps a primary—value as a
reference-book. Chapters are
studded with tables and
statistical information which,
one imagines, could be useful
to a number of people in a
variety of cases. A proper
assessment of this material
would seem to require a
specialised knowledge on the
part of the reviewer, and for
this reason —and also because it
would be impossible to do this
aspect of the book justice in a
limited space this reviewer
proposes to leave it severely
alone ; but the reader with a
special interest in some of the


Largest Australian Coy
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
subjects covered might bear it
in mind.
. The reference to Schultz,
incidentally, in the earlier
quotation, is picked-up in a
footnote:
T. W. Schultz, Production and
Welfare of Agriculture (The
Macmillan Company, New York,
1950 —chapter 3).
Adequate, and with a nice
economy of words.
Giving due weight to the
problems of agriculture in Aus-
tralia some due to our
climate dnd geography, others
arising from policy-making —
Williams is soberly optimistic
about the future ; many of the
more recent, developments in
agricultural science and agri-
cultural engineering are, he
thinks, peculiarly adapted to
exploitation in this country.
But . . . “The recital of
achievements should not lessen
our resolve to tackle outstand-
ing problems. Australia's
industrial expansion could well
be channelled to provide more
direct support for our rural
industries. Shortages of some
types of wire and steel fence-
posts still persist. Plants pro-
ducing steel fence - posts
were working at full capacity in
1956 (four times the 1949-50
level), but production is
insufficient [at time of writing]
to meet demand. Plans for
expansion of local production
have recently been announced.
Similarly, attention needs to be
paid to the improvement of
transport services in rural
industries.
“Within the rural industries
themselves, the major weak-
nesses are in the rural credit
facilities, and especially short-
term and intermediate-term
credit for farm-development;
also in land-settlement, which
is not yet rapid enough to
ensure that land available for
more intensive use will be used
to its full economic potential;
and in the extension and
advisory services, which have
only recently had access to the
financial resources and to
economic and sociological
research-data which are
necessary if they are to play
their part in conveying to
farmers new opportunities for
improved techniques and better
rural living. Above all, the
inflationary pressures generated
by economic events, especially
import-control and the sus-
tained level of Government
spending, need to be kept under
constant review to ensure that
the cost-burden can be borne
by the rural industries.”
Elsewhere, Williams remarks
that there is “a dearth of
information relating to the
capital structure of Australian
rural industries.” But, of
course, there are reliable
sources of information on
credit and income.
Upwards of three-quarters of
approaches made to banks for
loans, Williams says, may be
assumed to be requests for
“Tell y' wot— I’m lost!”
finance to buy more land,
rather than to finance
improvements: —
In the sheep-industry, inland
pastoral zone, debts in 1952-53
averaged less than 10 per cent, of
total capital investment, and 62 of
144 properties surveyed had no debts
ai all as measured by the fact that
they paid no interest on borrowed
capital. In the dairy industry, about
one-third of the farms in the butter-
a,- r d„c , n , a a J a, h had v „o d«b, v a,
££3 C
farm or 14 per cent, of the security
value of. land and improvements.
On many of these debt-free farms
n P em rt e U xist eS pr ° f,table invest '
Williams sums un the
Williams sums-up the
position by saying that primary
nrndiirers have been “unable or
producers nave neen unaote ui
unwilling (or both) to secure
more loans for the operations
of their farms.” He mentions
the increasing trend of hire-
purchase agreements in agri-
culture, particularly in
machinery, and quotes from the
Report of the Rural Recon-
struction Commission (1945):
The resources which the banks
command and the wide represent-
tion they enjoy through their
branches enable them to serve a
great variety of needs m the sphere
of rural credit both for production
and marketing. In this report, how-
ever, the commission is mainly con-
cerned with the extent to which they
do not provide adequately for the
reeds qf agriculture. In this regard
the commission is of the opinion
that the trading-banks do not give
sufficient consideration to — (a) pro-
jects which are in the development
stage ; ( b ) farmers with small capital
resources; (c) the tenant-farmer and
the share-farmer. In making this
comment the commission realises
that the banks are business concerns
with obligations to depositors and
share-holders and accordingly are
entitled to b'e operated within such
limits as they themselves consider
prudent.
The subject of rural credit
could, perhaps, have been gone
into a little more fully, with
particular attention to recent
developments both within the
private banks (particularly in
the finance-company field) and
tn the Commonwealth Bank.
Bu * what is there is provocative
of thought, and this is true, too,
of the rest of the book.
I fArmann
LCma-TOrming
u u
-ion of sol, «o Tid Jhe
Or control of surface-water.
When rainfall is heavy it pro-
vides the 6C lay of the land*'
to permit natural drainage;
gentle grades are established
safeguard aeainst erosion
t 0 , S T; egUa against erosion,
and the g rades are smooth, so
t ; s not tranned in
tda , water s A not trapped in
fallow pockets to leach fer-
from the sod or drown '
out cro P s - .
When rainfall is low, on the
other hand, land-forming is a
factor in improving watet-
storage in the sou.
There is nothing particularly
technical about the process It
is ]USt what has happened in
the laying-out of any property
used f or flood-irrigation.
The significance of recent
trends j n the United States,
~, , , ’
however, IS that land-forming
methods, long familiar in
flood-irrigation areas, are
u pinp used f or t K e control of
Del ? 8 UseC \ ror me control or
water under spray-irrigation
and natural rainfall. Even on
l and where drainage is not a
w thp nrinoinle is annlied
problem, the principle IS applied
with the idea of improving
efficiency in mechanised
operations.
The Main Problem
Uneven and poorly drained
soil lowers farm-production.
The causes of this are both
natural and man-made.
Erosion—normal or accele-
rated —is the main natural
factor in the irregular shaping
of land-surface. Meandering
streams and watercourses force
us to have paddocks of irregu-
lar shape.
Tillage practices cause shift-
ing, of topsoil and often leave
ridges and dead furrows which
impede drainage ; while drain-
age-ditches themselves,, if care-
lessly sited or constructed, often
impede movement of surface-
water in their vicinity, or alien-
ate considerable areas of good
land.
Irregular watercourses, un-
even surface, and badly sited
drains result in paddocks which
are small, irregular and hard
to work. The resulting short
or point rows cost the farmer
money in extra fuel, turning
and cultivation time. Particu-
larly in row-cropping, runs of
less than 30ft. or 40ft. are con-
sidered to cost more than they
will produce.
High spots prevent success-
ful irrigation, or dry-out
quickly. Low spots suffer
waterlogging and salting, and
hardpan readily forms under
them. Not only can crop and
pa’sture-plants be drowned-out,
but also beneficial soil-bacteria
suffer. Tractors bog in the
wet spots ; there are delays and
sometimes sections are missed
in working.
Advantages
Land-forming eliminates the
low and high spots, permitting
better germination, which is
even over the whole crop.
Growth is also even, while


closer inter-row cultivation, ‘
where applicable, is possible on
smooth ground.
The tilth of the soil itself is
improved, since better texture
is possible when the moisture
status is even over the whole
area during ploughing and
cultivation. Erosion damage is
avoided.
Larger hitches of implements
can be used, and cultivation is
more straightforward.
The results are greater mech-
anical efficiency and more
even crops.
In irrigation-farming, as
mentioned earlier, land-forming
is already a normal practice —
at any rate, where flood-irriga-
tion is used. But spray-appli-
cation is also made more
efficient when paddocks are
squared and low and high spots
removed, while the equipment
is easier to locate and move in
regular paddocks.
Methods
These are familiar to irriga-
tionists.
Basically, land - forming
involves smoothing of the land-
surface and relocating of fence-
lines, roads, drains and water-
ways to form regular paddocks
of even grade.
Land-forming is essentially
an earth-moving project. The
amount of soil which can be
moved is limited by the depth
of topsoil, and in many Aus-
tralian farming areas this
severely restricts the extent to
which such a job can be done.
In America, in some deep delta
soils, many feet of earth are
often moved in forming areas
of highly productive land. Here
the limit would more generally
be a few inches.
Once the land has been sur-
veyed and the amounts of cut
and fill determined, the earth-
work can begin. In the U.S.A.
contractors often use heavy
equipment for the job.
The first phase involves mov-
ing large amounts of soil over
short distances —filling gullies
and deep holes, levelling-off
hillocks and ridges—and for
this work a crawler tractor-
bulldozer combination is ideal,
so long as the earth is not to
be moved more than, say, 250 ft.
to 300 ft.
Phase two of the work
involves earth that must be
hauled for longer distances and
in big jobs a crawler-tractor -
f ou r - wheeled-carrying-scraper
combination has been found
most efficient, due to its com-
bination of power for loading
and speed for hauling.
In very big jobs, where the
soil has to be moved 1000 ft. to
1500 ft., large rubber - tyred
tractor - scraper units - are
employed.
On some land-forming jobs
a motor road-grader can be
used, but such a machine can
only smooth out slight irregu-
larities and cannot be used to
grade the final surface. A
motor - grader is normally
operated only by the larger con-
tractors to form drainage-
ditches, terraces and waterways.
The third phase of land-
forming, after the major earth-
work has brought the land
approximately to grade,
involves the use of a land-
leveller or v land-plane (often
referred to as a land-grader in
this country). The machines
used are generally large ones,
with a wheel-base of up to
100 ft. Those which are 50ft. to
60ft. long are generally pre-
ferred.
Such units can do a job of
precision smoothing to as low
as |in. tolerance, and generally
make three passes over a
paddock (the second at 90
degrees, the third at 45 degrees
to the first). Required grades
must be obtained —in most
cases within 0.1 ft., if the graded
slope is 0.2 per cent.
Most land requires the use of
the leveller every two or three
years.
The final phase of land-form-
ing is generally done with deep-
tillage agricultural tools. Sub-
soilers or chisels are used to
relieve the soil - compaction
caused by the earthmoving
equipment, and to break any
existing hardpan.
As to power requirements,
a large tractor does the work
faster, while a small tractor
requires a low initial invest-
ment. However, in the U.S.A.,
a medium - sized track - type
tractor of about 75-drawbar
horsepower is generally favored
for use by farm-power con-
tractors.
Such a tractor is capable of
high production, is relatively
easily transported from job to
job, and requires a rather low
initial investment considering
the fact that it can supply the
power for the entire land-form-
ing and farming operation.
Quantities
Experience indicates that
an average of 300' to 400 cubic
yards of earth must be handled
for each acre being formed.
Five inches of cut on only one
half acre of land being formed
is approximately 350 cubic
yards.
From 50 per cent, to 75 per
cent, of the estimated 350 cubic
yards will usually be moved
less than 300 ft. (normally bull-
dozer work). A 75-drawbar-
horsepower crawler - tractor -
bulldozer, under average condi-
tions, could be expected to
finish one acre of ’dozing in
2.5 to 3 tractor-hours.
The remaining cut (25 per
cent, to 50 per cent., or 350
cubic yards) will have to be
moved 300 ft. to 1300 ft. and a
similar tractor with scraper
might average one acre every
1.5 to 2 hours of working-time.
After the earth is in place,
two to four passes must be
made with a land-leveller, and
the same medium-sized tractor
with a 60ft.-plane (12ft.-bowl)
requires approximately 0.8
tractor-hours per acre for this
work.
Relief of compaction by deep
tillage can be expected to be
completed at the rate of one
acre every 0.8 hour.
Thus the total time required
for all operations to form one
acre with medium-sized earth-
moving equipment might be
from 5.5 to 6.5 total tractor-
hours. Multiply this by your
local contractor’s ruling rates to
get an idea of the cost per acre.
To this could be added the cost
of the survey.
Return on the Investment
Experience has shown that
most farming jobs in the
U.S.A. have paid for themselves
within three years. About half
have paid for themselves in one
year.
Here is a sample which has
been quoted to justify this state-
ment :
Eight acres of a 40-acre
paddock were subject to yearly
wash-out unless left in grass.
The remaining 32 acres pro-
duced 70 bushels of maize per
acre, marketed at $1.25 per
bushel.
Thus, on the 8 acres, the
farmer in one year suffered a
loss of $700.
Land-forming costs in the
area concerned were about
$50 per acre, or $2000 for the
40-acre paddock.
The $700 yearly boost in
income paid the forming-costs
within three crop-years, with-
out taking into. account
increased yield over the whole
paddock as a result of
improved general drainage,
easier working, and so on.
Land-forming is a way of
putting all of a farm to work.
Under flood-irrigation it is
essential, and where spray-irri-
gation is practised, or in high-
rainfall areas where returns are
good, it might well be a worth-
while means of lifting produc-
tion to achieve the full potential
of the farm.
J. E. Slee.
Pasture Myth
“Dreeite”: It is high time
the “rank pasture during
the summer is a good thing”
myth was hit on the head once
and for, all. As well as being
a bad fire-hazard, tall dry grass
is often a sign of mismanage-
ment.
More and more it is becom-
ing apparent that fodder-
conservation is not only a
means of preserving food for
stock but also a good way of
managing pastures —provided,
of course, that equivalent
amounts of phosphates, potash
and other plant-foods which
are taken off in the harvested
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(19/12/’57)
In Queensland reasonably good rains, although mainly
below normal, are indicated on the coast, central highlands,
Darling Downs and Maranoa during January, but rainfall
likely to be poor in the west and far south-west. Heavy
rains likely on the Peninsula and part of the north coast.
Moderate rain, mainly below normal, should occur on
the N.S.W. coast and tablelands during January; rainfall
poor in the rest of the State. Conditions may be dry in the
Riverina and western areas during the first five months, hut
with good general rains in June.
Probably poor rainfall in a large part of Victoria
during the first four months, although moderate rain, below
normal, is indicated in the central division, Gippsland and
west-coast areas during January.
Poor rainfall probable in most of South Australia in
January, though light, average rains are likely in the central
districts.
In Western Australia rain is likely in the West
Kimherleys during January, with good rains in the north-
west, Gascoyne and the coastal areas of the south-west,
though the south-east coast may have only poor rainfall.
LENNOX WALKER.


Buii a YillflCr
Quality
STORM LANTERN
and get value for
money! Gives 12 hours
brilliant light on only l|
pints of kerosene. Abso-
lutely wind and weather-
proof. A Reflector is
available as an extra if
required.
And 100% British Made too!
300 Candlepower
Model X 246
S(itfie diUetenw!
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores throughout Australia,
la ease of difficulty write for name of your nearest Stockist to
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVES
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 Mount Alexander Road, Essendon, Victoria.
pasture are returned to the
soil.
Sheep which eat rank dry
pasture, and nothing else, may
be full, but they are not fed.
In fact, they are often so
undernourished that they fall
easy prey to internal parasites
unless they are dosed regularly
with phenothiazine and /or
bluestone-nicotine-sulphate.
Supplements such as grain,
or high-quality lucerne, or
pasture-hay, do a much better
job than the medicine could
be expected to do by itself.
Athel Trees
“Leafy”: A tree from the,
scorching deserts of North
Africa is providing a dense
shade on the frosty treeless
plains of Queensland’s Darling
Downs. It is the athel-tree ;
its leaves are relished by cattle
and sheep, and analyses of the
green leaves have given a pro-
tein-content of 14 per cent, and
up to 50 per cent, carbo-
hydrates.
Sir Essington Lewis brought
the first cuttings of the athel-
tree to Australia in 1934, plant-
ing them in the streets of
Whyalla (S.A.).
The athel-tree grows very
rapidly. On the Darling Downs
a growth of 27ft. with a girth
of Ift. is common within the
short period of four years.
Once the trees are established,
they can stand the greatest
changes of climate, as proved
by the fact that they grow
equally well in the tropical
Northern Territory as in the
frosty south. But until they
have become established they
need protection against frost.
The trees are grown from
cuttings, planted on the spot.
Transplanting is not necessary,
but the trees will take as much
cultivation as they can get. The
cuttings should be Bin. to lOin.
long, and planted about 6in. in
the ground. Cuttings are the
only way these trees can be
grown; oddly, the seeds of the
Australian athel are always
infertile.
Royal Jelly
“Geep”: There’s every
chance that royal-jelly will fall
into disrepute just like some
modern plastics have. Too
much is often claimed for
tvhat are, no doubt, valuable
products in their right fields.
As “B-herd” pointed out in
these pages a few months back
(B. 25/9/’57), those whose live-
lihood depends on raising bees
seem to be treating the bally-
hoo with admirable restraint.
But recently quite a publicity
campaign has been whipped up,
and the stuff is being marketed
under fancy names.
Generally accepted as the
secretion of a pair of pharyn-
geal glands located in the head
of working-bees, royal-jelly or
bee-milk is strictly rationed
feed to the common larvae but
is fed unstintingly to larvae
destined to become queens.
It is a milk-white jelly, with
a taste likened to “a kind of
seasoned ragout, a little
sugared, mixed with something
hot and acid.” Its detailed com-
position is not accurately
known, owing in part to its
instability and difficulties of
sampling and analysis. Like
other foods, it is known to con-
tain protein, fat, carbohydrate
and mineral constituents, but
the exact nature of these is not
fully understood.
As a source of vitamins, it is
rich in members of the B-
group. It contains little or no
vitamin A, C, D, E or K. Even
as a source of vitamin-B it is an
extremely expensive one: you
could do as well, and much
more cheaply, with tomatoes,
yeast, mushrooms or liver.
Those who recommend royal-
jelly for rejuvenation and an
increased life-span apparently
base their claim on the colossal
egg-production of the queen-
bee, together with the queen’s
longer life-expectancy com-
pared with that of workers.
It is unfortunate for this hypo-
thesis that so many research-
workers have failed to find any
significant amounts of the
fertility-vitamin, E, in the royal
tucker.
An exhaustive review of the
scientific literature available
on the subject reveals very little
basis for the extravagant claims
made for the therapeutic value
of this substance. It is signifi-
cant that the medical literature
is silent on the subject of its
beneficial use in human therapy.
Only a limited number of
experiments have been carried
out on animals to study the
effect of dosages of royal-jelly,
and results have often been
contradictory. Experimental
rats have acquired hyper-
trophied adrenals and atro-
phied thymus: the suggestion
is that the material can be
biologically active. Reports of
gonadtrophin and oestrogen
activity show that, at our
present state of knowledge,
royal-jelly cannot even be
considered an entirely innocu-
ous material.
Claims by cosmetic firms
which market royal - jelly
creams said to beautify and
counteract the effects of ageing
reflect the opinions of their
sponsors, not experimental
facts.
It is not impossible that the
jelly may yet prove the source
of some valuable substance,
maybe an enzyme, maybe a
rare amino-acid, perhaps a
vitamin, but for my money it
stays out of the family
medicine-chest, and off the
menu, until a good deal more
investigation has been done.
For Gardeners
“H.P.”: Under drought
conditions water poured on
compacted earth is soon lost
through rapid evaporation.
The remedy, of course, is a
good mulch, but this isn’t
always available in the usual
form for city-dwellers. Animal-
manure costs about a shilling a
shovelful, and cannot always be
had in quantity, anyway. I
suggest using waste-paper (old
newspapers and the like) for
the preparation of a protective
covering.
My method is to soak the
paper in water overnight, and
then reduce it to a pulp by
stirring and pounding with a
long stick until it has the con-
sistency of thick porridge;
this may take up to half-an-
hour. The mess can then be
ladled out -with a small sauce-
pan and spread over the
loosened surface of the soil.
I suggest that it be spread in
a ring around larger plants,
say, 6in. from the centre, and
between the rows of plants such
as beans. M—as at present, in
Sydney, for home-gardeners—
the use of hoses is not per-
mitted, water can be poured
into the exposed centre of the
ring from a can with a spout
without even saturating the
mulch, thus saving water and
time.
A petrol-tin or garbage-can
makes a good container, the
handle of a rake is about the
right size for a stirring-rod.
The mulch stays put and does
not blow away. The color is
dark at first, because of the
ink, but soon bleaches near-
white and so reflects the heat.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
A Merrie New Year to everyone. That
Is, merrie in the Old English sense, not
only happy and jolly, but high-hearted,
courageous, adventurous, glad to be alive.
May 1958 bring with it peace among
nations and joy in all the bounties that
the living world may afford.
* ☆ ☆
The year 1957 was both marvellous
and sobering, especially to the older
generation, who have never felt so out-
moded. The youngsters take wonders
such as sputniks in their stride (“Grannie,
you’ll just have to get used to the idea of
living on Mars”). Perhaps the year’s
most significant remark was that of the
little boy who said, “I’m sick of TV. I
Wish they’d invent something new.”
☆ ☆ ☆
The popular attitude towards educa-
tion seems to have changed since
sputnik. No longer do people say rather
proudly, “I’m absolutely no good at
maths. None of my family are.” Instead,
we hear: “Hasn’t he any aptitude for
science at all?” (anxiously), or, “She’s
been mooning all day over that book of
verse when she ought to be doing her
physics.”
Well, we will have our flocks of
scientists, no doubt, and they will make
marvels for the world. But where will
the poets be to tell of these wonders?
Will the future bring anyone to match
the words of Keats, who long ago
expressed the amazement which we felt
in ’57?:
Then felt I like some watcher of the skies
When a new planet swims into his ken.
Or like stout Cortez when, with eagle eyes,
He stared at the Pacific, and his men
Looked at each other with a wild surmise
Silent, upon a peak in Darien.
☆ ☆ hr
To Sydney 1957 brought changes.
Handsome new buildings—all glass
windows to let in the light and venetian-
blinds to keep it out —sprang up to
decorate the city. Fruit-barrows were
banished from the most congested streets,
but trucks showing hard-to-calculate
bargains (one-and-a-quarter pounds of
peas for 2s. Id., for instance) have
developed a technique of pulling-up at a
kerb, selling rapidly to the bemused
populace and making off before the
policeman can get them. This adds some
adventure to the streets, certainly, but
there is no going back with the
“bargains.”
The buses started running in Pitt
Street, all numbered and impersonal—
hone of the red crosses, green squares,
white with touches of blue, etc., that gave
the trams some sort of individuality.
Whether the buses are a success or not is
hard to te N- Certainly, you can always get
a toehold on the old toast-rack type of
tram, and it always stops, whereas the
bus, once loaded, flits past regardless. But
surely we are not such old fogies that we
have come to look with favor on the
toast-rack tram!
Janet Britton, who enters her fourth
year in Engineering at Sydney University
in March, is not only the one woman
student doing this course at present but
the only woman ever to have done it.
This makes her a pioneer; but being of
the young generation she doesn’t
emphasise that fact. Educated at the
Methodist Ladies’ College (Burwood), she
excelled in mathematics, physics and
chemistry, and so naturally took the
course that most interested her. During
the past six months she has been doing
practical work with a firm in
which her papa, Mr. Sandy Britton,
is a partner. Her mother is a
graduate in arts, but her sister Alison has
taken up veterinary science, so it seems
that the modem trend in education finds
this family well-adjusted. Photo by
Norton Trevaire.
Efforts early in the year to give some
significance to Australia Day by having
a ceremony at the Town Hall were a
failure. It was made clear that Australians
would rather express their Australianism
on Saturday mornings by cleaning the
car, going to the beach, washing their
hair, taking a dancing-lesson, doing the
shopping and similar activities than by
listening to speeches.
The Waratah Festival later in the year,
however, was a success. Hyde Park had
mannequin - parades, merry - go - rounds,
bands and concerts, while the procession
was most spectacular. The Meals-on-
Wheels service was launched, and every
section of the community came in to
help with this work for older people.
The Opera House at Benelong Point
became more than a possibility, and the
£lOO,OOO lotteries were started to finance
it. But the city itself somehow did not
seem to grow more handsome in 1957.
There are too many really shabby build-
ings about. The tenanted houses are
suffering from the Landlord and Tenant
Act and look even grimmer when their
neighbors occasionally sparkle forth in
yellow paint and glass louvres.
v j?
Television made tremendous strides
during the year. From being apathetic,
the public gradually grew enthusiastic,
decided that it was not so important,
after all, to have a washing-machine, but
that TV was a necessity. So, little forests
of masts are appearing on roofs every-
where, and the family circle has never
been so united since World War I.
Another new phenomenon of 1957 was
the drive-in theatre. These captured the
public imagination very quickly. How
securely they have held it is open to
conjecture, but the fact that some quite
good films are being shown at the drive-
ins now seems to indicate that something
more than novelty has become necessary.
In the theatres during the year Sydney
saw some fine shows, the one most
memorable to this Letter being “The
Diary of Anne Frank” at the Royal.
Ballerina Margot Fonteyn caused a
flutter in the city when she arrived, and
when she moved from function to
function she seemed to be escorted by a
shimmering mass of teenage admirers,
all with pony-tails, flat shoes and clear,
sparkling eyes.
For fashion we had parades by Irish
Sybil Connolly, and we saw Christian
Dior’s last showing. We wore lilac after
many years, sou’-wester hats, pointed
shoes, seamless stockings, baby-doll
pyjamas, matador-pants and some
attempts at “the sack.” Make-up among
the most fashion-conscious was pale-pink
on pale-brown. The hair-do ranged from
the Italian-boy to the cottage-loaf, with
the pony-tail most prevalent. Baubles,
bangles and beads ran away with a great
deal of money, and at several stores
whole counters were dedicated to the
selling of pearls which ranged in price
from 3s. lid. to £22.
☆ ☆ ☆
Though the appeal for the Chair of
Australian Literature, launched with the
idea of raising £BO,OOO, was closed at the
end of the year with £20,000 in hand, the
cause of Australian literature was
advanced, There was the impetus given
by the London success of “Summer of
the Seventeenth Doll”; “The Shifting
Heart” was applauded, and “The Multi-
Colored Umbrella” was also enjoyed.
Everywhere Australian authors and com-
posers are taking heart, and perhaps it
is not too much to expect that we may
be able to see in 1958 a merrie age of
literature in Australia.


MELBOURNE
The Premier selected a sepia reproduc-
tion of stately Queen’s Hall, Parliament
House, as his Christmas-card ; the Town
Hall, illuminated for the Olympic Games,
was the theme of the card from the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs.
F. W. Thomas); that of Transport
Minister Sir Arthur Warner and Lady
Warner had a frontispiece bearing a
picture of a buxom maid carrying in a
huge plum-pudding, from which pro-
truded banners bearing such legends as
“Uniform Gauge,” “Blue Train,”
“Uniform Taxation,” etc.; Lady Disney’s
card pictured a ballerina from “Swan
Lake”; Swiss Consul M. Paul Emile
Cattin and his wife, chose a card with a
plain Geneva cross on the front; the
Garnet Carrolls and Mrs. Dorothy
Gitsham had the same idea (replicas of the
entrance to their homes) ; Mr. and Mrs.
W. K. Burnside had Christmas-lilies and
candles decorating their card ; and Mr.
and Mrs. John Inkster’s opened to show
on a blue background two tiny angels
holding candles.
* * *
A large illuminated Christmas-tree and
a spraying fountain comprised the decora-
tive motif for the party given by the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs.
F. W. Thomas) in the Lower Town Hall.
City Councillors and their families present
included Cr. and Mrs. Douglas Cox ; Cr.
R. Solly and Mrs. Solly and their daugh-
ters Eileen and Noelle; Cr. and Mrs.
Bernard Evans, their daughter and son-
in-law (Mr. and Mrs. Louis Sallmann)
and their younger daughter Margot
(pretty as a picture in a pale-lilac cotton
frock sashed with deeper-mauve satin);
Cr. and Mrs. Fred Hardy and their
daughter Sue (the latter wearing a green
embroidered sheath-frock highlighted
with floating panels); Cr. Leo Curtis
and his daughter Ann (who chose a short,
full frock of pale-pink spotted organza).
Virginia Finlay wore a gown of white
tulle which had a pale-pink satin gold-
sequinned bodice.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Davis Cup had a place of honor
at the reception given by the Lord Mayor
and Lady Mayoress for the members of
the challenge-round teams. A charm-
ing natural linen suit, the jacket featuring
the new loose lines, and a small natural
straw pull-on hat banded in cinnamon
were chosen by Mrs. Thomas. On the
dais with the host and hostess were the
president of the L.T.A.A. (Mr. Donald
Ferguson) and Mrs. Ferguson, the presi-
dent of the L.T.A.V. (Mr. R. N.
Vroland) and Mrs. Vroland, and the non-
playing captains of the Australian and
American teams. Guests included Mr.
and Mrs. Hugh Syme, Mr. and Mrs.
Norman Strange, Railways Commis-
sioner E. Brownbill and his wife, Mr. and
Mrs. J. X. O’Driscoll, Mr. and Mrs. John
Galbally, Cr. and Mrs. Bernard Evans,
Mrs. Peter Swanell, Commander and
Mrs. F. Green, Mrs. George Elliott, Mrs.
Lionel Newton, Mr. and Mrs. Curteis
Crawford, Mr. and Mrs. Guy Pleasance
and their daughter Sue.
Mrs. Allan Walters, wife of Air-Vice-
Marshal Walters, is a welcome addition
to the local scene —her husband has trans-
ferred from Sydney, where he had been
commanding-officer of the R.A.A.F.
Home Command; he comes to another
high Service post in this city. Mrs.
Walters, known for her charm as a
hostess and her flair for smart dressing, is
busy decorating their new Croydon home.
Cast of “The Multi-Colored Umbrella”
and members of the Little Theatre Guild
and the Little Theatre Players Club
were among guests at the Christmas-party
given by Irene Mitchell, Brett Randall
and Peter Randall in the foyer of the
Little Theatre, South Yarra. Holly-
wreaths on the door, miniature trees, and
a huge bowl of red and white gladioli
with gold leaves added gay touches.
Among those who joined in the fun were
Mrs. W. B. Hearne, Mrs. Rupert Downes,
Mr. and Mrs. A. T. Smithers, Mr. and
Mrs. Garnet Carroll, Mrs. Fairfax (her
son is manager of the Little Theatre),
Marjorie Archibald, Pamela Greenall,
Brenda de Lacey, Peggy Marks and
Pauline Oulton. Hostess Irene Mitchell
was attractive in a grey organza frock
tucked from neck to hem, and a rose-
trimmed grey miniature-mushroom hat.
☆ ☆ *
About 500 attended the Christmas-
party given by the R.A.A.F. officers of
headquarters mess in their St. Kilda Road
establishment. In the foyer was a large
illuminated tree, colorful mixed flowers
were massed in every reception-room,
and fairylights were hung in the garden
and in the marquee on the lawn. Guests
received by retiring mess-president Group-
Capt. Kingwell and Mrs. Kingwell in-
cluded Air-Vice-Marshal F. Scherger and
Mrs. Scherger ; Air-Vice-Marshal A. L.
Waiters, Mrs. Walters (whose black faille
cocktail-frock featured a fishtail drape
at the back of the skirt) and their
daughter Mrs. Carl Helden (over from
Sydney to spend Christmas with her
parents); Rear-Admiral R. S. Wellby
(R.N.) and Mrs. Wellby; Group-Capt.
P. R. Beare (R.A.F.) and Mrs. Beare;
Air-Vice-Marshal and Mrs. H. Acton
(the latter's attractive black platter-hat
finished with white guipure-lace through
which was threaded red velvet ribbon);
and Air-Vice-Marshal and Mrs. Erie
Hewitt (very happy about the engagement
of their youngest daughter Gillian to
Edwin Bruce).
☆ ☆ ☆
Every guest at the delightfully informal
party given on Christmas Eve by Mr. and
Mrs. A. T. Smithers in their Caulfield
home received a small gift from the
Christmas-tree. Among the guests were
Miss Gertrude Johnson (of National
Theatre fame), Mr. and Mrs. L. J.
Dooling, artist Allan Bernaldo and his
vivacious wife, Mr. and Mrs. John
Casson (off shortly to Sydney’s '-Palm
Beach for a holiday), Mr. and Mrs. K.
Nesbitt, and Geoffrey Smith.
* ☆ ft
Valmai Shirley, only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Charles Howard, of Heathmont,
and Flight-Lieut. Keith George Avery,
R.A.A.F., were quietly married at the
Toorak Presbyterian Church, the principal
R.A.A.F. chaplain, Air-Commodore R.
C. Russell, officiating. Reception was
held at the home of the bride’s parents.
The bridegroom is the son of Mrs. Ethel
Setchell, of Lauriston (N.S.W.), and of
the late Mr. Patrick Avery.
CANBERRA
Gay parasols and colorful straw hats
among the spectators lent a bright note to
the tennis at Canberra’s Manuka Oval,
where the Governor-General and Lady
Slim were guests of the A.C.T. Lawn
Tennis Association. Frank Sedgman,
Ken Rosewali, Lew Hoad and Pancho
Segura starred in an afternoon’s brilliant
tennis.
The vice-regal party, which included
the Governor of W.A., Sir Charles
Gairdner, and Lady Gairdner, and Prime
Minister Menzies, was welcomed and
later had afternoon - tea with the
president, Mr. T. C. Boag, and Mrs. Boag.
Lady Slim, who wore a cool frock in
pink-and-white patterned linen and white
straw hat, was accompanied by Miss H.
Montagu-Douglas-Scott. Others in the
party were Mrs. P. Foott, of Sydney ;
Mr. and Mrs. W. Walker (Sydney); vice-
president Mr. W. Quealy with his wife ;
and Mr. and Mrs. T. H. Betts.
Among the many members of the diplo-
matic corps watching the play were the
High Commissioner for South Africa and
Mrs. A. M. Hamilton; the Canadian
High Commissioner, Mr. T. W. L.
Mac Dermo t; the Brazilian Minister with
his wife and family ; and the Minister
for Sweden, Mr. C. Bergenstrahle.


and growl of electric saws and
drills. Everything they did
fascinated me, of course, but
nothing more than the simple
operation of driving-in nails.
What a statement of skill and
confidence there is in those few
swift and certain blows! Or,
say, in Bernie Brennan hanging
upside-down from the rafters
like a two-toed sloth and driv-
ing 4in. nails up into hardwood
from any and every necessary
angle.
The frame of a house goes up
with remarkable suddenness.
One day there’s a heap of
timber on the ground, then a
couple of days cutting and
fitting and then, whacko, she’s
up. This naturally gives the
impression that you'll be in
within a week or two, but the
real time-consuming work is all
ahead.
The flying-fox, of course,
was a steady job. Weather-
boards, ceilings, linings, asbes-
tos-cement roofing-sheets (boy,
are they heavy!), sand, cement,
blue-metal, flooring—load by
load they all went down the
hill until I felt I knew better
than any prospective house-
owner just how much stuff
goes into a house. In fact, I
began to wonder how they
could build for the price. I
managed everything on my own
until I came to the big sheets
of plate-glass, which couldn’t
be dragged to the cable and
which were too awkward and
heavy for one man to lift.
A cobber—Mac, ex-Navy—
came over to help. He ran a
professional eye over the
flying-fox, pronounced it good
and said he was going down
on it.
I told him no one had ever
gone down on it, and that it
wasn’t built for human cargo,
anyway.
“Bilge!” he said.
He stretched out on the plat-
form I’d made to carry the
glass, I hoisted it clear of the
ground and let him go at a
fair bat. He flew down over
the treetops roaring like a
triumphant banshee so that
some birds left the gully never,
I am sure, to return. We had
no trouble with the glass.
There were other interesting
loads. I’ll never forget the
expressions on the two big
delivery blokes from Nock and
Kirby’s who arrived with the
stove at the cliff top —in the
middle of the bush it seemed
to them —and asked “Where’s
the house?”
“Down there,” I said, point-
ing ’way down there..
One said, “Crikey,” and the
other said something stronger,
apparently believing for the
moment that they were
expected to carry the stove all
the way down. If anything,
they were even more concerned
when we hoisted the stove up to
the flying-fox. They watched
with soft unprintable amaze-
ment as the glossy white stove,
seemingly hanging by a thread,
took off into space and, swing-
ing from side to side, sailed
down over the trees and
eventually disappeared beneath
them.
The house was progressing
steadily. Most of the team
Rope-burns in hardwood
moved out, leaving Terry Flew,
the joiner, and Greg, the
apprentice, to do all the
cupboard work.
The ways to a woman’s
heart are many, but kitchen
cupboards aren’t a bad
approach by any means. Terry
was an artist and a perfec-
tionist, and to my wife, who
looked in every evening after
he had gone, he could do noth-
ing wrong. In fact, whenever
small arguments arose over
some point about the house I
only had to say, truthfully or
otherwise, “Well, Terry thinks
it should be this way.” I’m
afraid I used his name often,
and it never failed.
As the kitchen took shape,
not only visitors but other
tradesmen stopped to admire
Terry’s work. All except Chris
O’Shea, the plumber, a soft-
spoken craftsman and also a
perfectionist. He moved in
while Terry was still in the
kitchen. It generally went
something like this:
Terry, speaking to himself in
the kitchen: “So you build a
house. You do your best to
make something of it. You put
your heart and soul in it. Then
what happens? The ruddy
plumber comes in and hacks
pieces off it and bores holes all
over the place. I dunno, I
dunno. It’s just not worth it.”
Chris, in the bathroom,
softly, casually, just loud
enough to be heard in the
kitchen: “It’s my misfortune, I
s’pose. No matter how hard I
try to miss this bloke Flew, I
always seem to find him on the
jobs I take. Honestly, I
wouldn’t have come near this
place if I’d known he was here.”
Or, later:
Chris: “Terry, did you see
a piece of six-by-one Oregon
leaning on the veranda?”
Terry: “About four feet
long?”
Chris: “Yes, that’s it.”
Terry: “It wasn’t six-by-one;
it was six-by-one-and-a-half.
You plumbers never know the
size of timber.”
Chris: “All right, all right.
But where is it?”
Terry: “You really want it?”
Chris: “Of course, I do —
I’ve listed all my materials and
costing on it.”
Terry, gleefully: “Then
you’ll have to list ’em again.
I cut it up and used it in the
bathroom wall.”
Incidentally, this noting and
calculating on odd pieces of
timber seems to be a common,
practice. Bernie Brennan was a
dabster at it. His pockets some-
times bulged and the back of
his utility often seemed littered
with small bits of Oregon
covered with so many notes and
figures that you might have
thought he was having a crack
at Einstein’s theory. I treated
with absolute respect any
scraps .of timber with the
slightest pencil-mark on them ;
they could have been the
dimensions of the wardrobes,
the size of the bathroom mirror,
or a reminder to bring in some
more cement.
Actually, Chris and Terry
worked in perfect harmony,
and, between them, made a
beautiful job of the bathroom
and kitchen. Watching them,
it struck me that one charac-
teristic of good craftsmen is
gentleness. They worked
swiftly and surely all the time,
but I never saw them force or
rush a job. Always gentle.
WHILE all this was going
on, War Service dropped
in for regular inspections, and
always the inspector remarked
that I was lucky with my
builders. This feeling seemed
mutual. Kevin Brennan
told me on one occasion he
.would as soon build for War
Service as anyone—easy to
deal with, efficient, and quick
in their payments, was the tenor
of his comment.
We had our troubles, of
course. At first we were rather
flattered by the number of
strangers who showed up on
weekends structurally and
architecturally, the place wasn’t
a bad example of what could
be done with a small house.
Gradually, however, the visitors
increased until one Sunday the
bush was like Martin Place. I
was working at one side of the
house and heard noises inside ;
thinking it was my wife, I went
in to speak to her. There were
three complete strangers pulling
parts out of the washing-
machine to see how it worked.
“Just looking round,” they
announced cheerfully.
In the end I put up the
inevitable “Keep Out” sign.
Builders have somewhat
similar troubles, and I soon
learned why the Brennans,
essentially good-natured and
genial characters who give a lot
of time to Apex, could suddenly
blanch at the mention of
children. Hacking out lead
dampcourses, pushing over
“green” brick walls, cutting-off
electric-wires close to the walls,
tossing down timber which has
been laboriously taken up to


roof height—these are only a
few of the weekend pranks by
which youngsters drive the iron
into builders’ souls.
Suddenly the house was ready
for painting, and to anyone
else similarly situated I recom-
mend handing yourself over to
the experts. It’s quite an
experience. Alan and Heather,
friends and experts, worked out
the color-scheme for us. It goes
something like this: You take
perfectly recognisable colors,
such as Dawn Blush and Twi-
light Blue, and mix them to
produce an indefinable shade
like Alligator’s Armpit. You
do this wall by wall, ceiling by
ceiling, room by room, and
finish up with a foolscap chart
the size of a young novel and
with all the colors of a surrealist
palette on it. You try to
visualise it, to comprehend the
whole picture, and you have
nightmares and nervous break-
downs.
Then the painter arrives,
looks casually and confidently
at the chart, and says, “She'll
be jake.”
And, when it’s finished, it’s
more than jake. It’s plain
bloody lovely, and you lift your
lid to the experts and wonder
how in hell they worked it all
out.
. And that’s about it. She s
3 ust about finished and we 11 be
in next week. The builders have
done topnotch work and Bates s
plan, good as it looked on
paper, has come to life in a
we could never have
imagined,
To revert to the begin-
ning again, the purpose of
this record is not to discount
anything that John Stephens
said about builders, architects,
and War Service ; it’s only to
show that there’s another side
to it; that you can be lucky,
In our case our building propo-
sition was knocked back by
builders and lending authorities
before War Service and the
Brennans took it on and did a
cracking good job on it—at
least we think so.
Did I say lucky? Shades of
Erin, I’ve just realised some-
thing. Brennans the builders,
Terry Flew the joiner, Chris
O'Shea the plumber, Paul
Cusack the electrician, Jack
Flannery the painter, Des
Flannery the bricklayer. The
drainer’s name was Clem Hill,
but I’ll give him the benefit of
the doubt,
As I said, good on ’em. Long
may they build, join, plumb,
wire, paint, drain and lay
bricks. And likewise to
architect and War Service,
Me? The only thing I haven’t
mortgaged * are the buttons on
my old pyjamas, and that’s only
because they came off in the
wash long ago. But, bless you,
we’d do it all again at the drop
of a hat.
confusion and I had to hurry to
keep up with him.
“How did you get those
tickets?” I persisted.
“Oh, the tickets? Just picked
them up on the floor as we went
in. When that couple dropped
them —didn’t you notice it?
I always do that. To make
sure. Nobody ever asked me
for tickets, though.”
We turned down the same
side-street from which we had
entered the theatre. The lights
in the street were dim, very
much in contrast to the brilli-
ance of the Champs Elysees.
Much of the crowd was coming
our way, probably to get to
their cars ; parking was very
difficult on the main boulevards,
especially for late - comers.
Engines were started, headlights
were switched on and more and
more cars left the kerbside to
join the traffic.
WE crossed the street. I
noticed a well-dressed
man having trouble with the
motor of his convertible. He
grew noticeably more and more
anxious while the engine
remained dead to his repeated
attempts to start it.
Peter slowed down to a stroll.
“I can see,” he told me in a
low voice, “the man’s reason
for getting nervous. Just look
at the dame inside. He’s losing
time. And face! ”
“Oh, I see.”
“Wait here.”
He left me and stepped up to
the man just as he was about
to lift the bonnet.
“May I help you, sir?” He
was already opening-up the
engine. The distressed motorist
seemed only too pleased to have
an obvious expert on the job.
And then Peter was explain-
ing how lucky the driver was to
have a mechanic passing by.
Just going home from work.
The gentleman agreed, and
obeyed without question when
Peter ordered him back into
the driver’s seat. Peter then
unpacked some tools from his
portfolio, fumbled under the
bonnet, produced a torch,
switched it on ; then told the
man to try the motor.
Nothing happened. Peter
leaned back into the engine and
fumbled some more ; then told
the man to try again.
Promptly, the motor started
purring. The man emerged
from the car with a big grin on
his face.
“Merci beaucoup, monsieur.
Je suis tres oblige. Merci bien,
monsieur!”
Peter closed the bonnet.
“Nothing at all!” he said, and
asked for a rag. He cleaned
his tools and hands with it, and
packed them'back into the port-
folio.
The man produced a note-
case. Peter waved it away. But
finally he allowed himself
to be convinced that a couple of
thousand-franc notes would be
the least he should accept.
And then the grateful driver
drove away.
PETER rejoined me.
“Well? Wasn’t it simple?”
he asked me. “Five minutes—
two thousand francs. And safe
as a bank!”
I had to admit it.
“But you must be very lucky,
Pete, to happen to be right there
when such a thing comes up,”
I said. “I can’t see how this
could be as sure as you said it
was. There’s too much left to
chance. Why, you mightn’t
find another bird like that one
for months”
“Nothing’s left to chance, old
boy!” Peter interrupted. “I
took out the rotor from the dis-
tributor myself, as soon as they
had gone into the pictures!”
MT. GLORIOUS
Because that day was all the blossoming birds
clouds and a breathless eagle high as wind,
and we seemed to build a gleaming music
where our fingers were entwined,
and all the lucid valley kneeled its praise
below us, on Mt. Glorious,
because we picnicked there in the young season
when the pulse of love was effortless—
we thought that we had then discovered all
the areas and dynasties of love:
denying that the eagle’s glide might fail
and falter, that the rapid birds might ever grieve.
Queensland.
Thomas W. Shapcott.
DRINKING SCOTCH
Having in mind the room and sitting round
A small fire, although it’s April still,
One could have bet all Melbourne to a pound
That this old topic would recur. For look:
Safely esconced upon the plaster wall
With a smile that might disarm the blackest crook
Is Rabbie, in a dark and faithful print.
Out of the massive, brassy frame he stares;
Pale cheeks and mouth, and eyes with just a glint
Of maybe tears surmount the high white shirt
The loved and over-quoted bard wears.
And on their shelves the musty books assert
The names of Scott, Maclaren, Burns again
And of the work that my grandfather wrote
On Scotland for Australians. Heavy rain
Drumming upon the windows and the roof
Cannot quite drown the reminiscent note
That stirs my blood, although, in strict reproof,
Reason will ask what it all means to me,
A stranger to that whisky-clouded land:
This is the heart’s erratic truancy.
Victoria.
Chris Wallace-Crabbe.


It is an inconsequential sort of novel,
hard to describe; at once comic and
pathetic; diverting as a satire on
American universities (particularly the
scene where the professors all get their
“grants” to roam all over the world
on impossible “projects”); full of loose
ends; full of reminiscences of life in
pre - revolutionary Russia, which,
however tempting to the author and
appropriate to Pnin, interrupt the flow
of the narrative; completely rounded
in its portrait of Pnin from his lapses
with the language and his hopelessness
in practical affairs to his Pickwickian
kindliness and his innate dignity; in
total effect charming ... a picture of
the infinite resignation of the refugee.
It may be something like Proust,
something like Kafka and, far more
probably, something like Gogol; but,
except that Nabokov is a foreigner who
has learnt to write in English, it is not
in the least like Conrad. More than
anything else with a restricted
academic setting, but with much the
same humor and humanity —it reminds
this reviewer of “The Good Soldier
Schweik.”
A German "Clochemerle"
The grim author of “All Quiet on
the Western Front” has relaxed in his
new novel, The Black Obelisk
(Hutchinson), to write a German
“Clochemerle.” But Remarque’s
“Clochemerle” is still a grim business;
his narrator is a salesman and manager
in a small tombstone-business during
the German economic collapse after
World War I.
The head of the business is his
former sergeant. Together they have
bought up a huge stock of meal-tickets
at the town’s best pub; and with these
they force the proprietor to serve them
meals worth many thousands of marks
more than the value of the tickets.
Tombstones begin around 45.000
marks each and end at around three
billion; and there are pathetic scenes
in which the poor balance their savings
against leaving their dead unmarked;
but the humor is maintained by the
vicissitudes of the most costly and
important of them, the black obelisk,
which finally goes to decorate the grave
of a dead prostitute, her madame being
the only one in the town who could
afford it when the currency was
stabilised.
The sordor of the book is lightened
by the fine counterpoint of its
characters and action: the slaughter-
man’s wife, for instance, who cavorts
naked at her window and sleeps with
the narrator’s boss, is balanced by the
matter-of-fact and rather charming
acrobat-girl who ditches the narrator
for the innkeeper; the bootmaker-
barman’s woman who performs obscene
tricks to win bets for her man is
balanced by a beautiful schizophrenic
girl in the town asylum with whom
the narrator has a fantastic moonlit
love-affair, and who, when she is cured,
does not even recognise him. The
poets’ club, the night-club, the army-
rally, the brothel, are all brought into
action, and the rise of Hitlerism, from
which Remarque himself fled into
Switzerland, is forecast in street-affrays
with louts hunting like wolves.
The narrator takes leave of the town
to become a Berlin journalist, and he
does not see it again until it has been
blown-up in World War II: his last
few words have a sardonic symbolism;
The only buildings that have
remained completely undamaged are
the insane asylum and the lying-in
hospital. They were immediately
filled to capacity again and are still
full. Indeed, they even had to be
substantially enlarged.
A SNAIL
A snail is simply a flowing
forth and a going
forth. A snail’s shell
is a sort of
cornucopia that poureth forth
snail and into which a snail
withdraweth when dawn
taps with throstle beak the dome t/i
night.
A snail’s eye
like a telescoping
muzzle from a slithering
tank peereth forth and poketh.
A snail is ingenious,
it manufactureth
its own lubrication. It dribbleth
slime and dribbleth
silvery tracks among my lettuces.
And should a snail
come by chance upon another
snail, then one simply dribbleth
dribble unto the other and changeth
to either this sex or that sex
for the other
whichever is most convenient.
N.Z.
W. Hart-Smith.
Heinrich Boll
In The Unguarded House, by
Heinrich 801 l (Arco), translated by
Mervyn Savill, a story of two young
German boys left fatherless by the war,
the method of introspection is used
with great brilliance.
A whole household is vividly
conjured up for the reader in the open-
ing chapter as the eleven-year-old
Martin lies between sleeping and
waking, his thoughts roving from his
father, a young smiling man in a photo-
graph, to his mother, taking small sips
of wine as she reads in bed. flying in
with visitors in the middle of the night,
and over the whole of his environment
and acquaintance. His bewilderment
is implied in the images he calls up,
but at the same time a rich gallery
of characters and scenes takes shape.
The form of the book is fugue-like,
four different voices each taking up
the theme in their turn, yet there is
nothing vague about the picture that is
drawn of post-war life in a German
town, mainly because of the precision
of detail that is so subtly introduced
and the deep sympathy for all humanity
which the author so obviously feels.
Italian Secrets
The unpretentious brilliance of The
Secret, by Alba de Cespedes (Harvill),
takes the reader by surprise. It begins
when the heroine, an ordinary Italian
wife of an ordinary Italian office-
worker, buys, on impulse, an exercise-
book and begins to keep a diary.
Her son and daughter are almost
ready to be launched upon the world.
She finds herself chronicling the interest
her sixteen-year-old daughter is taking
in a smart lawyer; gradually it becomes
suspicion. Then the daughter goes to
work at the lawyer’s office, and finally
she discovers that the lawyer is already
married. Meanwhile her son’s quiet
affair with a tall, thin blonde develops
to the point where they have to get
married, and the diary forces her to
record how she took it out of the girl
and found herself growing into a
mother-in-law.
Her husband has been doing better
at the office, but at night he listens to
Wagner on the gramophone and loses
himself in dreams . . . She herself works
in an office, and. going in one Saturday
afternoon when the office should be
deserted, is surprised by her boss.
Their visits to the office after-hours
increase—this part is very delicately
handled—and the book concludes with
her decision to burn the evil diary and
go off with the boss.
The book is worth while for pre-
cisely its presentation of today’s world,
of people who are neither enviably rich
nor pitiably poor; neither supremely
good nor completely evil. For most
who read it it will convey, at some
point, the consolation of not being the
only ones.
Colette Again
Any new translation of a Colette
novel is an Event, and at least in the
opening section her Mitsou (Seeker
and Warburg), translated by Raymond
Postgate, will fulfil anticipations.
Though the book as a whole is a
novel, or novelette, this first section,


about a third of the book, is written in
dialogue-form, like a play; which is
highly appropriate because not only is
the story set backstage in a music-hall,
with the heroine the star of the revue,
but also the whole action is in the style
of the best French (or English, for that
matter) light comedy: with Bit-of-
Fluff’s two soldier-lovers hidden in
Mitsou’s wardrobe and Mitsou’s big-
businessman lover coming in and find-
ing them, and Mitsou, of course, falling
in love with one of the soldiers and
borrowing him from Fluff; and so
on . . .
Thereafter, as she did in “Ripening
Seed,” Colette remembers that she is
the Great Novelist, the expert in the
nuances of love, the tender patron of
young lovers; and in a series of
improbable letters she proceeds to
analyse the relations between Mitsou
and the Blue Lieutenant and to
describe, rather more clinically than
amusingly, the disasters of their first
night of love.
All this is disappointing. The
characters, instead of becoming more
and more alive, dwindle into A and B,
the almost mathematical protagonists
in a problem of love; the story, though
still perhaps frank enough to startle
readers unacquainted with the facts of
life, loses the sparkle of comedy.
But the opening is so brilliant that
it almost atones for the rest of it. The
dialogue is about as witty and daring
as it can possibly be, and, if the
heroine is nobody in particular, Bit-
of-Fluff with her incessant activity and
her wholehearted enthusiasm for
soldiers is as delightful a character as
Colette has ever created.
Three More from France
The Matador: Henry de Monther-
lant (Elek), translated by Peter Wiles.
Henry de Montherlant started writing
this book when he was fifteen years of
age. He regards his young hero with
a delighted, though semi-satiric,
fascination, and even breaks into the
narrative from time to time to exclaim
at the picture he is drawing. His own
passion for bullfighting, his admira-
tion of the Spanish scene, are apparent,
and his descriptions of both are vital
and impressive. But his sweet-and-
sour style, its almost scientific
astringency mixed with a bland strain
of sensuality, is thoroughly French.
“The Matador” will delight the
aficionado of the bullfight, but those
who love it not may grow weary of
the detail.
All in a Night: Jean Cayrol (Faber),
translated by Gerard Hopkins. There
is an interest in the oddity of form
with which this book claps a lifetime
into one night’s musings and wander-
ings. A young man, returning to visit
his father, loses his way in a bleak
and ruined countryside and with every
step of his nightmare journey his mind
shoots backward and forward in
time, revealing the compulsions and
influences that have dominated his life.
He meets strange and eerie people,
who combine the commonplace with
the fantastic so persistently that the
w hole story has the quality of a dream.
Clever as it is, the young man’s story
is unappealing, and the narrative, which
jumps from first- to third-person and
from place to place, proves rather
punishing on the reader.
Amorous Ghost: Pierre Bessand-
Massenet (Elek), translated by Hugh
Shelley. The idea that the past survives
in us and around us is by no means
new to literature, but this story
of an amorous nymph from the
eighteenth century who haunts a
young Parisian of the nuclear age
contributes something by its light-
heartedness and humor. The young
man, “Editor-in-Chief of a trans-
cendental literary review devoted to'
the Art Forms of Tomorrow” (so far
unpublished), is amusingly drawn, but
the author is so anxious to remain airy
and casual that he neglects to bring
the story to any satisfactory climax.
However, he says that he has been
advised to try to write legibly and cut
out the adjectives, and in this he has
certainly succeeded.
BY THE ROAD
Through chequered farming country
And hills that stand too high
The road goes slowly westward
Under an autumn sky.
The midday sun is yellow,
As yellow as the leaves
That lie along the road; the river
Pauses, meanders, weaves.
Maternal hills and valleys,
Dead pubs, the whine of bees:
Leisurely April country
Among its English trees.
A black car from the west
Stopped near the river to find
A waiting tourer which had left
The eastward miles behind.
Miles from the giant city
And the oppressive town,
The cars were still there standing
When the sun went down.
Autumn records that afternoon
Beneath each following sky
Though any photograph could show
That the lovers have passed by.
Victoria.
Chris Wallace-Crabbe.
Novels in Brief
Down in the City: Elizabeth
Harrower (Cassell). An intense feeling
for the city of Sydney animates this
first novel by a young Australian
writer, so much so in fact that plot
and character become vague and
sketchy by contrast. The story centres
round Esther Prescott, who, well-bred,
serene, unawakened, is dreaming her
life away in a beautiful stone house at
Rose Bay when she is swept up by an
earthy racketeer, married and estab-
lished in a new type of life at King’s
Cross. There is good material here for
a drama involving the clash of tempera-
ment and environment, but unfortu-
nately Esther seems to dream her life
away just as successfully in King’s
Cross as she did in Rose Bay. When
eventually she is brought to realise the
brutalities of existence, instead of the
shattering tragedy that could have
developed, the story ends with the
damp squib of her acceptance. It is
disappointing, but there is enough of
perception and understanding In the
book to make one look, forward to
future work by its author.
* * * *
Tendency to Corrupt: R. E. Barker
(Cassell). How easy it is to get your
book censored and the nasty effect it
can have upon your affairs are pains-
takingly displayed in this story, as well
as the anomalies of the law governing
obscene libel and the general need for
reform. Though written in a good
cause, the story, it must be admitted,
has a strong tendency to grow dull.
* * * *
Mrs. O’: Claude (Faber). When a
Frenchwoman consults a school atlas
to choose a spot where she can set
out on an exhilarating new adventure,
and when she lights on Cork, Eire,
and decides to buy a pub there, it
seems likely that there is fun to be
had. But “Claude” is rather too tied
up with her own feelings and ideas
really to report the Irish truly, and her
gallery of characters, comic, poignant,
charming, tragic as they purport to be,
are misty and vague.
* * * sfc
The World of Suzie Wong: Richard
Mason (Collins). Whether little Suzie
Wong and her girl-friends who pro-
vided entertainment for sailors on the
Hong Kong waterfront would in
reality be quite so wise and kind as
Richard Mason makes them and
whether Suzie’s own wit, gentleness
and charm would long survive the life
she led could be debated, but it is
certain that this story of the intense
life of their milieu is very well told,
and that the characters in it have
warmth, humor and vitality.


The last eight miles
¥2
-"- -
C=
ssg
:
i
ss
M
4sm
54*4!
0
V
X«S
Viim.'i
landed the entire rig in five weeks . .
No. 8 of a series—The story of BP A USTRALIA LIMITED
You’ve brought up a complete oil drilling outfit capable
of boring a hole two miles deep. You've got earth-
moving equipment, too, and sufficientsupplies to* start
drilling. You’ve shipped all this gear half-way round
«the world to the west coast of Papua. You've hauled it
82 miles up to the navigable limits of the Aworra River.
Between you and your remote drilling site at Komewu
sprawl eight miles of primitive, trackless swamp and
jungle where the rainfall is 350 inches a year. To cut a
road into the site would take months and cost a fortune.
What do you do about it?
The answer, as proved by The British Petroleum Company
Limited and their Australian and American oil search
associates in Papua, is the helirig.
A helirig is an oil rig so designed and constructed that
it can be broken down into portable pieces, slung below
a helicopter, flown to within inches of the drilling site
and reassembled ready for business.
Two big S5B Sikorsky helicopters successfully carried out
Papua’s first helirig operation at Komewu last year.
Scurrying back and forth over the swamps and the
jungle and making non-stop, hovering lifts and drops,
the SsBs landed the entire rig in five weeks less than
half the time it would have taken to pioneer a muddy,
tortuous road the last eight miles into Komewu.
A far cry, this, from the oil search methods at the turn
of the century when William Knox D'Arcy risked the
fortune he had won from Queensland's Mount Morgan
to sponsor the discovery of vast oil resources in the
Middle East.
Thanks to D’Arcy, though, who did not live to see
helicopters fly, it can truly be said that . . .
m
*»?-•
m
1
-
BP
began here!
BP AUSTRALIA LIMITED
formerly THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD
tic 593
