

Now Available in a
6-VOLT SIZE!
CENTURY’S
PROVEN HOMELIGHTING
BATTERY.
II ■
Here s a battery that brings a new conception in Homelighting
convenience.
ITS CENTURY S 613 CPG a 6-volt battery with
transparent polystyrene container, glass insulation, and inbuilt
gravity ball hydrometer IN EACH 2-VOLT CELL.
613 CPG also contains SILVIUM, the magical LONG-
LIFE additive exclusive to CENTURY.
Years of practical experience all over Australia h
PROVED the superiority of this type of battery t
all others.
Century Homelighting batteries are supplied in WET e
FULLY CHARGED condition. Long experience 1 s
shown that this is necessary to ensure the highest state
efficiency.
HEwl
&& ~..*4,*,s&>& &&&%.z&mszm&mz
Manufactured by CENTURY STORAGE BATTERY CO.,
LTD., Alexandria, N.S.W.
DISTRIBUTED BY:
Bradley Bros. Ltd., Grimly Ltd., Motor
Traders Pty. Ltd., Sydney; Industrial
Sales and Service Ply. Ltd., Lidcombe; Century Storage Battery Co.
Pty. Ltd., North Melbourne; Century Batteries (S.A.) Ltd., Adelaide;
P. H. Phillips Battery Supplies Ptv., Brisbane; Rural Services Pty. Ltd.,
Woolloongabba, Brisbane; Plant and Plant (Machinery) Pty. Ltd.,
ioowoomba; Samuel Alien & Sons Ltd., Townsville; Wvper Bros.
Limited, Bundaberg; Advanx Tyre and Motor Service, Cairns; Lawrence
Motor Company, Rockhampton; Corser & Co. Pty. Ltd., Maryborough;
Gympie Machinery & Electrical Coy., Gympie; ~ Jas. Crokev & Sons,
Mackay ; Attwood Motors Pty. Ltd., Perth; C. C- Boag Batteries, Hobart
and Launceston; Allen Bros. (Darwin) Pty. Ltd., Darwin; Watson,
Steele & Ganley Ltd., Auckland, N.Z.
B^*l'
®a*o. mmm
' !?
«:■ Wi
iliiiJi
Centurv’s 613 rT>r> «-.-r,*r IT
Note inbuilt gravity bull hydrometer in aii thr'-e
2-volfc cells these show the butte:;.** state of
or vge clearly visible at all rimes. A babcry of
the same dimensions is also available a.* a 4-vcU
unit.
GBsmtom
3 years
AT LEFT:—A complete 36-volt set of 613 CPG
Home Lighting batteries. Available also for 32-
volt, 50-volt and 110-volt installations. PRICE
OF complete; 32-VOLT set comprising
FOUR 6-VOLT UNITS
AND TWO 4-VOLT UNITS
AT CAPITAL CITIES IS
ONLY
£49/13/8
Send the coupon below today to CENTURY
STORAGE BATTERY CO., LTD., Birmingham
St., Alexandria, N.S.W.
Please send me full details of the Century 6 1 3 CPG
Home Lighting Battery.
NAME
\
ADDRESS
The Bulletin
"Weird Alofo” Author Writes—p°9e 32
Wednesday, September 17, 1958
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered In Anstralla for transmission by post as a newspaper.


WRITE FOR
PROFIT!
If YOU have the «w to write, yon ran
learn to write Successful Stories, Articles,
Written Sketches, Radio Talks, Purs, t erse,
etc. There is a large, and constant demand
for well-written work.
STOTT’S Training will provide you with the
assistance and knowledge of liighly-quulitied and
experienced Instructors.
Mrs. J. Pennu gained £7O for Short Stories
sold while still engaged on her Course.
Mrs. L King was paid £2l for her sth' story.
Whot these students have clone, YOU can
do. If you would tike information about
our Courses in Story Writing, Freelance
Journalism, etc., post the Coupon today.
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereaßh St.,
Sydney.; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St-, Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
—— CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON -
To STOTT’S: Please Hend me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars uf
your Literary Courses.
MY JNAME
ADDRESS
AGE (S.B. 1858)
BOOK.HUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney-
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find It for you— Action,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful
BOOKS BOUGHT
Wo visit you in the City and Suburbs
Immediate Cash Payment
Valuations made for Probate
BW 7874
(After Hours AX 1131)
BERKELOUW
114 Kins Street, (Between Pitt and
Castlereagrh Streets), Sydney.
The Red Page
JACK LINDSAY
The most sympathetic moment in
Jack Lindsay’s autobiography Life
Rarely Tells (Bodley Head) occurs
right at the end when he is describing
a row he got into at Brisbane Uni-
versity:—•
Then came the episode of the uni-
versity magazine, now edited by
P.R.S. I contributed an essay attack-
ing academics as eunuchs of mechan-
ism, plus several poems. One of the
poems, derived from an etching by
Norman, was excoriated as obscene ;
and the issue became a scandal. Mrs.
P. in patiently hurt tones asked me
why I delivered such a blighting
attack on academics when I had so
many good friends on the staff, from
whom I certainly learned a lot? I
tried to explain that I had no
ingratitude to such persons. I had
been attacking—what? I had known
it clearly, enough as I wrote; but
before her intelligent, helpful face I
lost all the clues. I began trying to
explain what Blake meant by Spectre
and Abstraction, and felt myself as
abstract as Urizen himself.
There is a good deal of spectre and
abstraction in the autobiography, and
it is a relief to find that Jack Lindsay
himself has sometimes wondered what
it was all about. Time after time he
seems to be most passionately attack-
ing something, or praising something,
or proving something; but the question
is—what? He is intoxicated with ideas,
with images, above all with words; and
when, for instance, he has been very
companionably gathering sandworms
and shooting flying-foxes on Bribie
Island, out from Brisbane, he cannot
resist breaking out into rhapsodies (in
rhymed prose!) which mean almost
nothing at all:
I created out of song and a statue
of sand an island-nymph, Bribia, who
hid from me among the battered
bushes, but left her footprints on a
track between two rocks. I found
two blue stones that were her eyes, a
slit shell draped with delicate weed
for her maidenhood, slivers of red
coral for her breasts. I embedded
these in a statue of sand which the
wind had gnawed. I found a bottle
without a message in it and sent it
again adrift with a few words
addressed to Apollo, telling him that
I was learning Greek from a master
round as a hairy gooseberry and red
as the inside of a Moreton Bay
fig. I lay in the rough windy boughs
of ti-trees and the disk of a crystal
world spun under me. O Bribia
come forth in archaic nakedness,
with two plaits of golden hair, and
take my respectful hand, you
nereid born from a rib of the old
Giant Sand. Balanced upon the
spinning wind, come lively forth,
one leg from the south, one leg from
the north. Come with a flash of
foam, bright as milk, "and make my
hand your home. Come with a
billow-leap and ride upon my sleep,
sunburnt goddess.
The less rhapsodical moments are
much to be preferred; and in these the
reader may learn a few solid facts
about the author, and a few more about
his father, Norman Lindsay. Because
Norman Lindsay and his first wife were
separated and afterwards divorced,
Jack saw little of his father in his boy-
hood, and some of his anecdotes seem
apocryphal; but one at least is superbly
characteristic: “His economic sense is
embalmed in the family tale that after
his ‘Bulletin’ debut he was informed by
the bank that he was overdrawn, and
answered in bewilderment that he still
had some cheques in the cheque-book”;
and there seems, too, something charac-
teristic of both father and son in their
first meeting after the long separation:
Norman, as an essential preliminary
to the meeting, sending him some of
his etchings, “Thus Spake Zarathustra”
and the proofs of “Creative Effort,”
and Jack very doubtful about the meet-
ing because he couldn’t (at that stage)
accept the doctrines of “Creative
Effort”:—
So, still uncertain on what terms
I was going to meet Norman, I
awaited him in the hotel on the
slope up from George Street near
the Quay Suddenly a slight,
eager man, tipping everyone half-
crowns, rushed into the waiting-room
and grasped my hand. I was speech-
less with confused emotions, but he
talked enough for half-a-dozen,
though I hardly marked what he said.
With his large head on a long cran-
ing neck, his mobile lips and expres-
sively modelled face, he suggested a
Renaissance sculpture of Julius
Caesar. We drove up to Springwood
in the mountains by car; and now
at last I could hear and speak. By
the time we reached his house a few
miles out from the township I was
charmed. When I went to bed that
night on the broad veranda I was a
sworn disciple.
Along with these anecdotes and a
surprising story of Gruner arriving
at Springwood after “painting in the
wilds, stripped naked for days on end,
tanned almost black,” Jack Lindsay
gives, between fireworks, a picture of
his boyhood in Brisbane; his first love-
affairs; his life at the university, where
he took first-class honors in Latin and
Greek; his adventures in philosophy, in
which he had somehow to reconcile
the “conflicting universes” of Keats,
Shelley, Blake, Plato, Dostoevsky,
Beethoven, Nietzsche, Norman Lindsay
and (later) Freud and Karl Marx; and
of his early excursions to Sydney. The
stories of the foundation of “Vision”
and the Fanfrolico Press and his subse-
quent career as a novelist in England
are reserved for a projected second
volume. He does, however, give some
mention of “Vision,” with an effective
justification of the magazine as an
attempt to bring European culture to a
country still in the bush-ballad period.
From New Guinea
Despite the gorgeous dust-jacket and
the curious photographs, some of them
in color, the wild drums of New Guinea
beat surprisingly softly in Softly, Wild
Drums, by Beth Dean and Victor
Carell (Ure Smith Pty., Ltd.), and this
is not so much because, as the authors
say, New Guinea is gradually becoming
civilised but because they never seem
(i Continued on page 58)


4 4
KEY
.. No. 2
: :
•y:
m
Hi a
.
■
m
> '
' “■
yyyyy'yy ; yy ;
: ;■
m
Wmm v • WH
< ■ ••:•
..: r
pgjww'-j
‘ 5
7 „ gp* i - m
£«Ss«&f<i: :>" Axx*: <r> >‘^-jfiSSt'rF
-y:
•' :'• - '•-y.iv'
iHiiii
Conventional Staff Superannuation Plans may not always be adequate
in the case of “Key Men”J.
W-hat is really needed is heavy emphasis on protection against death,
combined with modified retirement benefits.
A.M.P. “Key Man” plans are tailored to meet the needs of the
individual and his company.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: 87, PITT STREET, SYDNEY
GENERAL MANAGER: M. C. BUTTFIELD
Every A.M.P. member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by funds exceeding £375,000,000 which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.
ZII7C


The Bulletin
Wednesday, Sept. 17, 1958
Vol. 79—No. 4101
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Ad^m9
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, 'Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
Mew Zealand: Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington. ,
WHITE AUSTRALIA
T/lEWING the fecent racial ferment
* in the- United States and South
Africa, England and Fiji, it is difficult
to understand the defeatism about the
White Australia policy which affects
some Australians in public life.
The theory that it will be impossible
to keep out Asians because we have a
relatively empty, country is based on
ignorance and on the application to
this country of principles different from
those applied to the other 79 members
of the United Nations.
At the heart of the foundation on
which the United Nations is built is the
acceptance of the principle that every
nation, no matter how small, shall have
the right to order its own affairs and
control its own populations, so long as
it does not oppress them and so long
as it does not interfere with the affairs
of somebody else in a violent manner.
The idea that white races should
not intrude into African or Asian‘Coun-
tries, .without the consent of Africans
and Asians is put-forward
and why it is held that Australia should
not have the same feelings about
intrusion it is difficult to see.
So far. nobody appears to have put
the idea forward save softshell Aus-
tralians. And if emptiness is justifica-
tion. India, despite its huge popula-
tion, has spaces almost as vacant as
some of those in Australia, the bulk of
the Indians clustering along the river-
systems. But nobody suggests that the
emptiness should be a temptation to
non-Indians any more than the large
areas of Burma and Persia, Siberia and
Asia generally, where a man is scarcely
seen in a day’s march.
Anybody who suggested that the
Arabs or the Russians should admit to
their countries everyone who cared to
migrate thither would find himself in
strife.
Yet there are Australians who profess
to believe that Australia is part of
South-east Asia and must open its doors
to South-east Asians, generally or on
a quota basis, or incur their enmity,
even though this country is as far from
the Asian mainland almost as Istanbul-
is frpm London or Europe from the
’nearest - point of inhabited North
America.
No good has ever come of the influx
of colored groups into white countries.
The Americans have suffered from the
presence of 1 the negro, both in the
deterioration of living-conditions in
some States and of the race through
a natural instability brought about by
the mingling of incompatible bloods.
The influx of detached Puerto
Ricans into New York has brought a
wave of gang-warfare largely based on
race-antagonism.
South Africa has had trouble both
with the Indian problem and with the
half-caste question, issues which keep
rebellion, in the Union very near the
surface and provide the foreign Com-
munist agitator with his most fruitful
stamping-ground.
Fiji's Indian problem is its main one,
and now England has to face the racial
question in all its sordid ugliness, even
though it has only a couple of "hundred-
thousand West Indians in its cities
among a total population around
50 million. . ,
It is unfortunate that when colored
peoples emigrate to a white country
they are usually the underprivileged of
their race, or. at any rate, a section
which, in white environment, drifts
into slums and comes into contact with
the worst local elements.
The result is not pretty. Whatever the
view of civilised people should be to
race, there is no doubt that an under-
lying' friction. usually provoked
in the end on economic grounds,
appears to exist between black and
white and Asian and white. Moreover,
it is not merely one-sided, and both
sides shun admixtures of blood because
of the instinctive knowledge that most
mixed races are weak and unstable.
Australia has just as much right as
any other country to determine what
its racial composition should be and
how dense it should be. It has just as
much right to the protection of the
United Nations in a migration policy
as the Arabian countries, or Russia,
or Turkey, if they wish to be racially
exclusive. The Russians have no more
right to tell us what we should do in
admitting population than we would
have in dictating to them about the
same matters.
Immigration restriction, as Sir Henry
Parkes put it, centres round “a policy
of the first magnitude to cement society
together by the same principles of faith
and jurisprudence, the same influence
' of language and religion and the same
national habits of life,” and the basis
of exclusion is not one of difference in
standard but of difference of types so
marked as to make assimilation difficult
and to create within the body of the
nation racial caves thinking differently,
living differently and with different
aspirations and ideals.
Sir Henry Parkes, indeed, was no
race-hater, and even imported Eurasian
compositors from Asia. But he was
quite firm about the advantages of a
nation racially unified and of equality
of right between nations, and settled
the Ghinese question by offering the
Chinese Government of his day to allow
entry and freedom of movement to
Chinese if the Chinese would agree to
allow equal freedom to Australians in
China.
In the post-war years, under pressure
of war conditions and softshell propa-
gandists, immigration restrictions have
been considerably relaxed. Chinese
traders in Australia, for example, are
allowed, within limits, to bring in
employees, who must, however, quit
the country if they leave the employer
who brought them in. Wives and
children of those who come in in this
manner are allowed temporary resi-
dence.
This probably does not matter very
much, but the disturbing factor seems
to be that a large section of propa-
gandists. mostly with unfriendly intent
and to serve the purposes of Com-
munism. have been working with more
than limited success to invest the words
“White Australia” with a sinister and
shameful meaning and with implica-
tions insulting to other peoples.
Why any man should not be proud
of his race, especially a race with the
record of services to civilisation and
progress owned by the British, it would
be difficult to explain. And why it is
colonialism for the people of British
race to uphold their own policy on
population, and rational and sound for
other countries to demand the right to
live in Australia, only an interested
propagandist could profess to fathom.
“White Australia” is a slogan of
which no Australian should be ashamed
and at which no other national should
take offence. It is not meant to put
a brand ofHnferiority on anybody, but
merely covers, pithily, a policy aiming
to prevent the inflammatory hates and
dangerous political and economic situa-
tions all too obvious in every country
in which there are blocs of population
working economically in rivalry and
racially incompatible and unable to
merge into each other.
Asiatic countries themselves have
these problems. More than half of
India’s troubles have'come from the
fadt that its races cannot, and will not,
blend, resulting in constant conflict and
violence. The same applies to a lesser
extent and in a different way with
Ceylon and Malaya with their Tamils,
and Ceylon and Java with their
burghers and other European-native
blends.


"HEY! WHO'S BASHING WHO?"


PLAIN ENGLISH
The U.S.A. and China
On the eve of the annual meeting of the
United Nations Assembly, President
Eisenhower, who favored appeasement of
Nasser two years ago, now says that
there is “not going to be any appease-
ment” in relation to Formosa and its
defences. He has made this clear in a
speech and reiterated it in a letter to
Khrushchev, who accused the Americans
of trying to be “the gendarmes of the
East,” and who added that any attack on
the Chinese mainland would be regarded
as an attack on Russia.
It seems a pity he did not take this
decision earlier, because if he had done
so over Suez and Indo-China the world
would be a safer place. But apparently
Eisenhower has needed the experience of
Lebanon, where U.S. troops are still in
some force, and Jordan, in which there
are still British units, to convince him
and his advisers that thwarting of the
Kremlin need not lead to world war.
If Khrushchev had been believed a
few weeks ago the whole world would
have blown-up if U.S. and British forces
Were not at once moved out of Lebanon
and Jordan, but all that happened when
the Arabs learnt that the Western Powers
meant business was that they promised
to be good and behave among them-
selves and not assassinate" anybody.
Meritorious as is the new attitude of
Washington, it is to be wished that the
occasion were one which had greater
sympathy from the world at large. It
is true as the President says that any
further appeasement in the Pacific would
“make it more likely that we fight a
major war.” And it is fully in accord with
the principles of the United Nations
Charter and the. West that every great
nation should “stand ready to defend 1 the
principles that armed force shall not be
used for aggressive purposes.”
But when this principle is put into
practice it should be on uncontestable
ground that there is an aggressive pur-
pose in the attack which is being stopped.
The British Government agrees with
the U.S. that the dispute about Quemoy,
Matsu and Formosa should not be settled
by force. But it also has been made clear
that at this stage the U.K. does not
necessarily go further, and that it does
not hold that it has any obligation to
take, military action for the defence of
Quemoy, Matsu or Formosa.
There is little likelihood, on the events
of the past few days, that the Chinese are
engaged in anything more than a politi-
cal manoeuvre. If they had wanted
Quemoy and Matsu they could have taken
them, lying as they are in the mouth
of Chinese ports, isolated by long
stretches of sea frpm main Formosan
bases, while the Chinese have their bases
on organised railway-systems within
gunshot of the islands.
They have been content to keep on
pouring shots into them and holding-off
the American supply-organisations—in
other words, their action has been techni-
cally defensive against a force arrayed af
their front-door, and they have been
careful on this occasion to go no further
for the moment.
Since the bombardment began
curiously close to the opening of the
U.N. Assembly, it looks very much like
another ruse to penetrate U.N., and they
certainly have got some way with the
matter, since President Eisenhower has
been lured into saying that if the Warsaw
discussions, of which the initiative came
from Peking, should fail—as China will
undoubtedly see that they do —“there is
still hope that the United Nations could
exert a peaceful influence on the situa-
tion.”
Since at the present time the U.N. does
not recognise the Peking rulers except as
a nest of bandits and outlaws usurping a
de facto. Government, it is difficult to see
how U.N. could enter into the matter
without recognising Red China as a
nation ; or that the Chinese would enter
into discussions on any other basis. The
American agreement to enter into negotia-
tions through its Ambassador at Warsaw
seems to have brought the matter a step
nearer to some sort of recognition of
Peking by Washington.
Where the manoeuvres go from there it
remains to be seen. But at the point at
which the U.N. recognises Peking as an
entity with which it can hold discussions
the situation will become complicated,
since it will introduce the issue of the
status of Chiang Kai-shek’s “nation.”
That is ’what Peking aims at, and it will
be very awkward for him —and for
Washington, especially—seeing that the
United Kingdom already recognises the
Communist Chinese regime diplomati-
cally, while sitting side-by-side with
Chiang's men in U.N.
Chasing the Wedding-day
Vote V
Among the assorted dishes of election-
bait Labor is cooking-up for November
22, it seems that marriage-loans are to
be high up on the menu. The party is
reported to be jubilant over the possi-
bilities of this scheme as a vote-winner.
“Vote-catcher” is a more accurate
description, and no matter what plausible
arguments Hayleu and others may trot-
out to justify its introduction, there is
no need to look any further for the
reason for its inclusion in the menu.
In Hitler’s Germany and other coun-
tries which tried or advocated marriage-
loans the avowed purpose was to
encourage early marriage and to increase
the birthrate ; when Hitler came to power'
in 1933 the German birthrate Was down
to 14.7 per thousand. The argument
can scarcely be Used here. Over the past
19 years the birthrate has averaged
23.04, which compares favorably with
most Western countries and shows no
sign of declining. The marriage-rate for
the same period was 8.80 —again higher
than most Western countries.
There seems little likelihood that
marriage-loans would have any effect on
either the marriage-rate or the birth-
rate. They would certainly ease the
economic burden of the newlyweds a
little, but that is no excuse for slugging
the general taxpayer for the benefit of a
favored section. It is argued that because
of economic conditions the young people
of today find it difficult to get enough
money together to start a home. This is
nothing new ; it has always been difficult.
Is it harder today than it used to be?
Statistics don’t suggest that it is. In 1956
the-average age of brides was 25.42 and
of bridegrooms 28.68. Twenty years ago
the corresponding figures were 25.92 and
29.52; 30 years ago, 25.17 and 28.68.
Difficult or not, young couples are
obviously not marrying later than their
parents did.
As to economic capacity, no age-
group has benefited more than the under-
twenties from the general increase in
wages since the war. Moreover, at no
time in our history have such a high
proportion of girls and young women
been earning their own living. Certainly
there has never been a time when this
section of the population had so much
money to spend ; a glance at the trend
of retail-trade advertising will bear this
out.
The plain truth is that the marriage-
loan scheme is being advanced at a time
when there is a weaker case for it than
at any time since the Labor party came
into existence. This switch of interest
from the welfare of “poor old pen-
sioners” to that of “poor young marrieds”
is a blatant recognition of the fact that
. young marrieds have a much longer
voting-life than old pensioners.
The Colombo Plan
A brochure published in Colombo
places the total aid given to South-east
Asia under the Colombo Plan between
1951 and 1957 at £A1550 million, of
which the British Commonwealth has
found about £250 million and the United
States over £1330 million. Australia’s
share was a modest £22-million-odd,
compared with four times the amount
from Canada and five times from the
United Kingdom.
There is no survey of the results in
the brochure, but they are patent every-
where. During the plan's tenure Indo-
China has been gradually going-under to
the Communists, and only one Or two
sturdy figures seem to prevent collapse of
Western influence entirely in the area.
Burma is asking help from the Soviet
Union. India is taking everything the
West can give, but has been found
firmly opposed to British Commonwealth
interests whenever there has been con-
flict, and helpful to the Soviet Union
whenever its actions, as in Hungary, have
been open to condemnation. During
the term of the pact one Indian State has
gone Communist.
Ceylon, the home-base of the plan,
has repaid everything done for it by
turning Left at a sharp angle, ousting
the West from its defence bases in the
island (which are among the world’s
most vital ones in view of the fact that
Colombo by sea is about equidistant
from everywhere that matters), thus


endangering the security of British Com-
monwealth trade-lines. Whenever, as in
the Suez affair, or recent Middle Eastern
affair, there has been conflict between
Moscow and Western policy, Ceylon has
leant over towards the Kremlin a little
more heavily than India.
Indonesia has paid by demanding
Western New Guinea and by treating
residents of countries which are subsidis-
ing the plan as if they were dirt.
Any of the taxpayers who subscribe
to\eep the plan going are liable to be
held-up with bayonets or tommy-guns,
searched and subjected to surveillance
or indignities if they visit Djakarta or
any other Indonesian city.
Indonesian students, like all other
Colombo Plan students, are, of course,
treated on an entirely different plane when
they travel to universities in the British
Commonwealth or the United States.
Some scholastic institutions in Australia
have professors and lecturers, who, like
many newspaper-writers, seem bent
actually on proving to the visitors that
our payments to aid their countries here
are the emanations of a bad conscience
and that it is our self-imposed task to
prove to them that they are at least our
equals and that the White Australia
policy is looked on by decent Austra-
lians as a sort of brand of shame.
There are countries like Pakistan and
Malaya which have shown gratitude for
the attempts which are being made - to
help them with money and goods and
facilities. But, generally speaking, what-
ever Colombo Plan outlay - has bought
it has not won goodwill with most of
the beneficiaries or a firm line-up with
the countries who make the handouts.
Growing-pains
[From “C.S.”]
Although it was really stale news,
having been announced late last year,
the meeting of the Victorian Cabinet in
Morwell needed some attention-getting
announcement to show ctizens that the
Government really got around, and the
ambitious plans for the development of
the Electricity Commission over the next
decade were given a second airing.
This time it was announced the com-
mission would spend £3OO million by 1968
to meet the State’s increasing demands
for power and fuel and to connect
about 340,000 more electricity-consumers;
about £BO million would be spent
extending distribution supply-lines and
improving and enlarging existing supply-
facilities ; £SO million would be spent on
main transmission-lines, terminal stations,
switching-stations and sub-stations ; new
capital-works in the Latrobe Valley
would require £l5O million ; and sundry
other millions also were needed.
Late last year the announcement pre-
dicted the expenditure of £3OO million in
nine years by the doubling of the power-
station output, more than doubling
brown-coal production, trebling, briquette
output and completely electrifying the
State.
Investors'haven’t supported the S.E.C.
loans fully, and their subscriptions have
left a large gap between what the com-
mission wanted to spend and what Can-
berra (by way of loan funds) and the
public (by way of loan-subscriptions) was
willing to provide.
The result, of course, has been that
the commission has taken a leaf from
Canberra’s gilt-edged book and, with the
approval of the State Cabinet, begun to
raise, in effect, loan funds from revenue.
As the Canberra funds also are being
provided from Federal revenue, the Vic-
torian consumer and taxpayer is being
shocked at several points.
Continued assurances that Victoria is
developing faster than any other State
grow less palatable as the immediate cost
increases, especially when coupled with
increasing transport charges which must
lead to some further inflation, and already
some citizens are wondering whether
it may not be wiser to return i to
an extent to the system of charging
the cost of capital works over a period,
and certainly part of them to the genera-
tions which will benefit from them.
Giuseppe Tropeano
[From “Collins Street”]
Giuseppe Tropeano, the 21-year-old
Italian who had been seized by the
Migration Department for deportation
to Italy because he defended on one
occasion his small brother and on another
his elderly father and came under the
Act’s deportation section, was released
suddenly from Pentridge Jail in Mel-
bourne.
The release was ordered under a face-
saving announcement that he had been
set free to assist his solicitor to prepare
new information for the Minister which
will be examined “most carefully”; it is
unlikely any more will be heard of
Tropeano.
One of the most disquieting featur'es
of the case was the allegation secretly
made to the department, allegedly by
security police, that Tropeano was a
member of the Mafia, the Black Hand
gang. Is there really a place in this
country for action in noa-milit'ary
matters on secret allegations?
The High Court
Even with six State Bars to draw on it
is not easy to keep such a court as the
High Court of Australia functioning
satisfactorily, especially when high
politics and “State rights” are usually
considered by Governments in making
appointments.
The High Court is, in a very impor-
tant sense, a popular court, since its
interpretations take account of the
natural evolution of public opinion and
thought, whether all the justices admit
it or not, and the changing circumstances
of life at large.
To make a successful High Court
judge ingredients are needed other than
those which make good specialist
Supreme Court judges. The candidate
should —and sometimes is—much more
than a lawyer. He now has to be basically
a Constitutionalist and a scholar. He
should have breadth of vision and an
international outlook, and use courage
beyond that of normal men, applying
tests to the matter before him that often
are scarcely applicable anywhere else
in the world, save perhaps in the United
States, which provided at least the germ
of the prototype of the court, though
the courses of evolution in Washington
and in the Australian capital cities have
run divergent ways.
The rewards of a seat on the High
Court Bench lie rather in the work than
in the financial recompense, which is
low beside that of a good, sound Bar
practice. Appointment involves a task
that calls for incessant travel, the closest
attention to detail, a power of exposition
for use in contact with the rest of the
select band of learned brothers, not to
mention an almost inhuman detachment
from the ordinary enjoyments and
■friendly contacts with the world.
The latest additions to the Bench are
excellent appointments. Both of the new
justices, D. I. Menzies, Q.C., and Victor
Windeyer, Q.C., are outstanding men of
their legal age. The Government may
have had some misgivings about choosing
a distant relative of the Prime Minister,
50 years of age, but the fact, that there
has been not even a murmur from the
Opposition Benches leaves no doubt but
that hp was acceptable on all political
sides.
His academic career was brilliant, he
was secretary to the Defence Committee
and Chiefs of Staff during the whole of
the wap with Japan, is a vice-president
of the Medico-Legal Society, and in
private life has made a hobby of Toe H,
of which he has been a Victorian
honorary area-commissioner.
W. J. V. Windeyer inherits an Aus-
tralian legal-family tradition which
reaches down through the Bench and
Bar for 130 years. His great-great-
grandfather was one of the earliest of
Australian stipendiary magistrates, and
the first mayor of Sydney.
The new judge is a scholarly legal
historian who might have been Professor
of Law in Sydney University if he had
not been in Tobruk at the wrong time.
He commanded the 20th Brigade in the
Huon Peninsula campaign (and read
Macaulay on the way across the Gulf the
night before the event). He finished his
military career as a Major-General com-
manding 2nd Division, C.M.F. He has
been Deputy-Chancellor of Sydney Uni-
versity. He has-had directorial experience
in commerce. In the law he had been
among the highest flight of talent in High
Court advocacy (though with perhaps the
most modest plumage of them all). The
one event of his career which brought him
legal notoriety was his most impartial
conduct in assisting the Petrov Commis-
sioners, which might have been taken as
a model by members of the Bar employed
in such a situation.
Both the appointees should enhance
the status of the High Court.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
In the school holidays I invited
a friend and her small daughter
—visiting Sydney from Malaya—to go
with me and my youngest daughter to the
zoo. My friend began the day by com-
menting on the splendid changes and
improvements Sir Edward Hallstrom had
effected at Taronga Park, and finished
the day wondering whether Sir Edward’s
philanthropy couldn’t extend to organis-
ing special children's days at the zoo,
when children could be supervised by
vountarily - working, impartial and
pblite adults, instead of pushing, boorish
parents: “Get in there, Bill, in front of
that little kid. Go on ; you’re taller
than he is.” “Don’t you go standing
aside for anyone, Miss ; I've paid for
you” “Don’t toss your apples any old
where ; aim to hit, and see if you can
make him roar.” These injunctions I
heard the older generation giving their
offspring before the various cages and
pits. My friend's little girl, completely
inexperienced in the art of pushing-and-
shoving, filially withdrew from the mass
struggling for an elephant-ride. As she
did so, she politely offered her ticket to
the child in front of her. Before it could
be received or rejected, a wiry, mop-
headed mother came hurtling over:
“Don’t go trying to bribe my kid to
hold a place for you, girlie. She’s got
herself to look after, and that’s what
she’s going to do.” Urged and inspired
by their elders and betters, that was
what most of the children did. And
so, when our two got home: “How
did you enjoy the zoo, dear?” “I think
I’d, like it very much —if I could go again
some time when there are only the
animals there.”—“Pat.”
+*♦
“Wusslean”: In the inner Melbourne
suburb of Burnley (Vic.), where a picture-
theatre was sold the other week and will
be used as an auction-room, there is one
street with 27 houses—and 27 television-
sets.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Zake”: Probably nothing exempli-
fied the insouciance, the daring and dash
of cricket's “Governor-General,” the late
Charlie Macartney, successor to Trumper
and forerunner of Bradman as premier
exponent of the flashing blade and the
nimble hoof, more than the remark he
made during the match against Notts in
1921 when he made 345 —a record for
an Australian in England which still
stands. After the lunch-break, specu-
latively holding the bat he had been
belting the bowling with, he slung it into
a corner 'of the dressing-room and
said to another member of the team:
“Hand us a heavy one —l want to have
a go at the bowling!”
❖ ❖
“Mac Hoots”: I do not feel-that con-
ditions for the Concord West (N.S.W.)
municipal art-competition, which admits
paintings on all “except nude
figure-studies,” have been expressed quite
accurately. The rule, as stated, would
obviously ban all paintings of animals,
which are invariably in the nude ; and
on the other hand —surely a most unde-
sirable spectacle in Concord West —it
would admit a painting of a nude human
figure, provided it had its hat on..
♦l* * *
“Canopus”: In a flat where I help
feed the fleas there is a sort of com-
munity-hall leading do several bathrooms.
The landlady tackled Bill from Boggabn,
saying that a lass had objected to him
.coming from the bathroom with a towel
around him. Bill was shocked. “What
sort of joint is this?” he asked. “A
nudist club?”
* * *
‘‘Doric”: My photographer-friend was
luckier than “Migls” (B. 3/9/’5B). She
arrived back from a trip to Lord Howe
Island, with some very fine pictures of
seabirds —so good that I asked for a
loan of the negatives. The printery
attendant, to whom good photographs
must be commonplace, remarked, “Who-
ever took these knew something about
the game.” I passed the compliment on
to the photographer and she said, “Why,
I’ve never taken photos before. I
borrowed the-camera for the trip, then
just closed rny eyes and clicked!”
“He always Was a bad loser”
THE COWBOYS’ LAMENT
“George Williams, Texan roughrider, lost
every -event in Queensland rodeos because he
had to use an Australian saddle. He said
American horses bucked more than Australian
horses because they were corn-fed.”
“Oh, give me my stockwhip and saddle !”
The cowboy from Texas complained.
“The saddles you lent me in. Queensland
Weren’t properly broken and trained.
“They told me in Texas that Queensland
Was the best place to find a safe seat,
But in Queensland they’ve not been so
certain
Since the old Labor riders was beat.
“Yet suppose I had ridden in Sydney,
I’d still have been down on my luck ;
They’ve got a roughrider called Cahill
Who stays on by passing the buck.
“For the horses they ride in Australia
Aren’t corn-fed like those in the
States—
They are? Weil, it don't make them
vicious ;
They think of their riders as mates.
“So give me my stockwhip and saddle ;
It's ’way back to Texas Tin goin’,
Where the horses are reared-up to throw
you,
And the saddles to see you’re not
thrown !”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


Here in The Bulletin office I
was moaning to Miss McDermott
(everyone moans to Miss McDermott)
about coming in without my glasses.
“Wait,” she said; “I’ll get you
Charlie’s glasses. Phil had them last
—Phil, where’s Charlie’s glasses?” Mr.
Dorter pulled out a drawer at the back
of his desk and searched perfunctorily,
“lim Blair didn’t have any ; I gave them
to him,” he said. “Mr. Blair,” Miss
McDermott called down The Bulletin
corridors, “have you got Charlie’s
glasses? Ron wants them.” “Charlie’s
glasses?” I said, trying on a second pair
Mr. Aria had thrust upon me. “Charlie
Shaw’s glasses,” Miss McDermott said.
“Everyone uses them when they’ve for-
gotten their glasses.” Mr. Blair came out
of his office: “ ‘Bo’ Keough got them
from me. Bo!” he shouted. “Have you
got Charlie’s glasses?” “These aren’t
bad,” I said, using Mr. Aria’s glasses
on the files. “Wait, I’ll get Charlie’s
glasses,” said Miss McDermott, moving
off down the 100yds. stretch to Mr.
Keough’s office. And indeed, when she
came back with the thin, horn-rimmed
glasses with one earpiece missing, they
were (no offence meant) slightly better
than Mr. Aria’s. “Charlie’s glasses—
we ought to write a par. about them,” I
said. This struck all of us as a most
valuable observation: so now I write
this par. about Charlie’s glasses with the
aid of the glasses of the late author
cf Heaven Knows, Mr. Allison. —
“R.McC.”
4*4 4*4
“Bicky”: Apropos “Witness for the
Prosecution,” “Pat” (B. 27/8/’5B),
Agatha Christie has another play, “The
Mousetrap,” running in London which,
first produced in 1952, has passed the
record of Oscar Asche’s 1916 musical
extravaganza “Chu Chin Chow,” of 2238
performances.
4*4
“O’ Johnno”: During a Supreme Court
case in Hobart a witness was asked
if he would swear that there was
an iron railing round Constitution Dock.
“No,” said the man in the box, “I
couldn’t swear definitely. But I’d like
to say 1 sat on it a few days ago.”
4*4 4*4
“Eureka”: A woman who knew that
I was a keen amateur photographer woke
me up at 2 a.m. displaying a pair of
beautiful black eyes. She wanted a
photograph of the damage to produce in
court when she sued a man for assault.
When I refused to take the photo she
threatened me with a black eye. Nor
did she go to court, but to church, and
within the week, to marry the chap who
gave her the pair of black eyes.
♦♦♦
“Wallboard”: Some advertising-men I
know could make a living selling dog-
biscuits at One Tree Hill—but could the
chap who wrote the copy for an adver-
tisement I have just read for “Up-to-
date furniture at up-to-date prices”?
“Roga”: The appeal of the Nationat
Trust of Australia for information for its
register of pioneers will probably cause
much delving in our public libraries,
for kept there are the passenger-lists of
the migrant ships of last century. The
information given on these lists is brief
but to the point; port and date of
departure, port and date of arrival, age
and occupation of passenger, as well as
“May I introduce myself, sir—Fothergill's the
name, and I'm delighted to meet you.”
religion and previous address, and finally
whether he or she could read and write.
Only if they’re not there will it be time
to study the transport-lists.
♦> ♦> ❖
“N.A.8.”: Savings-banks aren’t back-
ward in marking the arrival of the stork.
One issues money-boxes to mothers in
maternity hospitals, and another opens
an account, with a Is. credit, in the
name of the new one born every minute.
Babies’ births give rise to many shifts.
A young fellow called on me in the
country with a letter-of-introduction
from a mutual friend. It was his first
assignment for a life-assurance society,
and he sought advice. I told him:
“Keep in touch with the courthouse
people; parents must register births
within 60 days, and that might give you
a lead.” But that was an old one to
him. “Ah,” he said, “we watch the
clothes-lines ; it’s quicker.”
♦J* *£♦
“Sack”: Before the play starts at
Sydney’s Royal a screen is lowered and
advertising - slides shown. When the
balloon is about to go up, the screen does
the same. Then —■
“Bomp!” The top edge
of the screen fouls some-
thing high up on the arch
over the stage. The
screen is lowered four or
five feet, then brought up
again quickly. “Bomp!”
A chuckle runs around
the theatre. Down comes
the screen again.
“Bomp!” Rippling
laughter. “Bomp!”
again. Roars. Generally
on the fifth or sixth
attempt victory is
achieved, and rewarded
with enthusiastic acclaim.
The top-edge of the
screen shows the wear
and tear of constant
repetition, an indication
that the little comedy is
not merely confined to
the times 1 have pat-
ronised the show. Prob-
ably the management is
adhering to the old
adage: “Get ’em laugh-
ing at the rise of the
curtain and you’ve got
’em with you for the rest
of the show.”
+♦♦ * *
“P.0.M.C.”: A friend
who has made a big
success of backyard
manufacturing for more
than 20 years told me
that one of his early
lines, a motor-car polish,
had cost him a lot of
money (before he with-
drew it) because he had
marketed the stuff as
“Shino” instead of
“Shinex.” Why? Off-
hand, I suppose I could
list some 30-odd fully-established com-
modities, from “Bex” to "Wetex,” with
trade-names ending in “ex.” Rechristened
without the magic totem, would these
sell as well? I would once have argued
that a soap by any name would smell
as sweet to me. Yet, glancing around
the room where I write, I see a cake of
soap, a toothbrush, a telephone-index
and a colored indelible-pencil, all of
which I have bought within a week, and
all with trade-names ending in “ex.”
❖ ♦> *i*
“Piketrailer” (Cyprus): When a
posting-order to Bahrein, in the Persian
Gulf, came out of the blue a couple of
weeks ago I brushed-up my Arab
studies. Among my reading-matter was
the memoirs of former British


Ambassador Sir George Rendle, The
Sword and the Olive, from which I got
the impression that life was pretty tough
for a boundary-rider in the Persian Gulf.
Endless discussions had been taking
place between the British, the Saudis and
the numerous emirs and sheikhs to
define proper international boundaries in
the chartless sand-and-rock wastes of
S.-e. and N.-e. Arabia. One of the
Persian Gulf sheikhs inquired where we
considered his territory ended. The
acting political resident in the Gulf wrote
him a letter: “The southern boundary
of Your Highness’s dominions is marked
by a blue line.” In the best traditions of
official correspondence, the marked map
was not enclosed —for months after-
wards parties of the sheikh’s henchmen
roamed about on their camels looking
wearily but doggedly for a blue line on
the sands of the desert.
❖ ❖ *t*
“G.B.'T The “infighting” and “board-
ing” going on among Icelandic gunboats,
British frigates and trawlers off Iceland
carry one’s mind back to Evans of the
Broke, the last to give the famous naval
order in action, “Stand by to repel
boarders,” on a British warship, when,
in 1918, his destroyer H.M.S. Broke
engaged with a flotilla of German
“Demonstrator in Elementary Physics, my foot — I've been
OUT with that tick!"
destroyers in the English Channel. It
was unique in 20th-century naval history ;
but the happenings off Iceland may
possibly see it repeated.
A
“Cowyard Kate”: Gala trip to the
Big Smoke ; decided to do something
different; so went to a Chinese cafe.
Didn’t know what to order for our first
Chinese meal, so sat at a table next a
Chinese family. They, in very good
English, ordered corned-beef, cabbage,
carrots and mashed potatoes.
“Tom”: Woolworth’s at Burwood
(Sydney) opened a new self-service food
department; its manager is Mr. Greedy.
A quiz for those responsible for
*** Sydney TV-programmes: Who told
Liberace he could sing? Do male
announcers have naturally curly hair or
are perms responsible for those ringlets?
Why does Alfred Hitchcock think he is
a comedian? What has happened to our
favorite girl-announcer, Barbara Potter?
How did an advertisement for Philips
get rung in to the national station?
Why do we have so many murder and
crime stories? Who told Liberace he
could dance? —“Doric.”
“Dorian”: Never a Saturday afternoon
like this one: the sky a miracle of blue,
nothing to worry about except Claude,
the fast-bowler ; any minute one could
expect the click of bat and a vigorous
run to the boundary. There at mid-on
I stood . . . George, one of the two
church-choir tenors (the only tenor
representative on Sunday morning),
approached: “Hey, you know the anthem
for tomorrow morning?” “Yes,” I said.
(Did they?) “Well, I can’t get those top
notes.” He paused to see the effect. It
was purely internal. “Well, George,” I
said dubiously, “I could transpose it
down a tone-and-a-half, which would
make your highest note E Flat.” That
seemed to please him ; he said he thought
he could manage that. Next morning
I got to the church two hours before the
service; 35 minutes later the whole
anthem was transposed. Five minutes
before deadline I received word that
George had an attack of laryngitis ; so
I had an attack of the blues and the
morning-service was anthemless,
*
“Apemantus”: Relat : ons between Aus-
tralia and the U.S. necessarily get curt
mention in Thomas A. Bailey’s highly-
compressed Diplomatic History of the
American People. Covering contacts
from the 16-ship goodwill fleet visit in
1908 to the 1951 ANZUS Pact, only one
Australian is named—but characteristi-
cally. Of the United Nations Conference
on International Relations, 1945 (the
“San Francisco Conference”), Bailey
says:—
The most continuously obstructive
element in the conference consisted of the
small Powers, ably led by Herbert V. Evatt
of Australia... .But the press, seeking sen-
sational copy, overplayed Soviet obstruc-
tion while underplaying that of the small
Powers.
*> ❖ ❖
“Mugga Way”: Are our traffic cops
a little behind the times? In West
Germany, on the Frankfurt-Mannheim
autobahn, there are 18 police-traps, and
on each of six stretches there are posts
connected by radio-telephone. Cars
exceeding the speed-limit of 60 m.p.h.
are photographed for 'evidence in case
of prosecution. Soon they are to mount
cameras on police vehicies. No doubt
British police would consider it didn't
give their quarry a sporting chance.
THE CHIEF INGREDIENT
“The exact degree of hauteur, of icy dignity
and serene imperturbability, is required of the
model who aspires to the top salons of London
and Paris.” —Woman s paper.
You must always try to seem
Coolly proud and quite supreme;
To assiduously cultivate a tendency
To be gazing down your nose,
Which is very right for those
Who’d project an unmistakable
transcendency.
Stare at others as if they
Were of some inferior clay;
If you can’t — well, the conclusion’s
inescapable
That, although your chassis’s got
The statistics to the dot,
You’ll be deemed as fundamentally
undrapeable.
In the haute couture it’s just-
Ly regarded as a “must”
To look supercilious, even during
fitting-on;
It’s the shot to show disdain,
Even wear an air of pain.
As if an upturned tack you’d just been
sitting on.
It’s distinctly not the thing
For any model to bring
A look of Tm-so-glad into the
business —
That's by far a greater crime
Than to not appear on time,
Or sport a perm. that's of a patent
“tizzincss.”
You must learn to swish a skirt
As if someone else it HURT,
Provocatively insolent, imperious ,
To he friendly, gay and warm
Is regarded as H bad form'';
Please use a face that's cold and set
and serious.
Whilst a flair for wearing dress
May assist you to impress ,
It’s useless if you're lacking the facility
To be conscious of your sneer ,
And, above all, to revere
That feeling of complete contentpti-
bility !
N.S.W,
S.W.K.


Tt’s a racket! First the male
fashion-arbiters frowned on our
watch-and-chain as too ostentatious, so
we parked them in the davenport and
bought a wristwatch. So with less excuse
for waistcoats the tailors stopped making
them, like extra pants, free, and next
we had to buy a com plies red piece of
grummagefn to fence our necktie off
the consomme. Now we are to be vested
in buff, claret or pearl-grey—to heck
with ’em! Spouse is rebuttoning
Grandpa’s corduroy waistcoat; it has
generous eaves on all pockets to stop
hailstones or other extraneous matter
falling therein ; it has a lavish flannel
extension to comfort the lumbar regions;
my watch will tick happily in the
chamois-lined near-side pocket, and my
pipe will be snug on the off-side. —•
“Quarter Cut.”
*t* *x*
“P.0.M.C.”: I question “D.A.’s”
average of three-in-14 women wearing
hats in Sydney streets or suburban trains
(B. 3/9/’sB)—three-in-50 would be nearer
the mark. And paying-off TV wouldn’t
be the cause; hatlessness has been a
fashion with Sydney women for about
10 years. “D.A.” hits the spot with his
alternate cause: showing-off their perms.
Hair-cutting and -styling for the fair
sex is so lovely and expensive that it’s
either hats or hair-do, though there
might be a market for a transparent hat
which would exhibit the wearer’s taste
while it did not hide her hairdresser’s art.
❖ ❖ *
“Terzi Tuoni”: Discussing the pros
and cons of birth-control, in the Sydney
“Herald,” he came up with the phrase
“purely a modern conception,” which,
if such disputes could be settled by
phraseology, might almost reconcile the
opposing parties.
♦:* ♦♦♦ ,j»
“Cygnet”: A quartet of Hobart meat-
men visiting Adelaide for a conference
entered a hotel bar and were straightaway
asked by the barman: “Four butchers?”
“Right!” answered one of the four. “But
how the heck did you know our trade?”
In South Australia, of course, “butchers”
are medium beers.
♦l* ♦> ♦>
“Alma”: She was explaining the use
of genders to the French class, and had
remarked that trees were nearly always
masculine gender, when Hopeful, with
furrowed brow, shambled to her feet to
ask, “What about sheoaks?”
❖ ❖ *i*
“Club Five”: Those railway mystery-
hikes of 20 years ago are still on. The
much-lauded Sydney-Melbourne trip has
no ■ timetable that can be bought or
copied; information is limited to the
starting- and probable finishing-time.
Garbled and semi-intelligible information
is given over the public-address system,
and is even worse than the oft-repeated
recorded statement that the railway is
the safe way. The trains carry mystery
window-seats that remain vacant while
the corridor is jammed. A booking-
clerk informed me that a window-seat
could be secured by interviewing the
train-attendant, yet regulations sa_y “Ino
tijps.” .Qo one slage of the journey only
one clothes-hook was provided for two
passengers, and my new hat and top-coat,
were hung on the floor.
“If you wont Wear anything but chinchilla you'll have to Wait for the spring."
Dicky : The Italians have a few im-
ported words in common usage, as well
as the French (B. 20/8/’5B). One cal-
culated to cause general confusion
appears on menus as “ la zuppa inglese”;
literally translated, it means “English
soup,” but materially translated it be-
comes wine-trifle.
* * *
“IX7 iil j” tt *i• 0 ,
Wallboard : Headline in Sydney
SfTf ,'h Gi " H S I, SiX M ?,r
Bankrupt Father. Hardly a record. My
five-year-old daughter hasn’t got me to
the Bankruptcy Court yet, but on present
indications she’ll succeed well before her
next birthday.
* * A
* * v
“Sanasi”: I always thought that those
two fatuous expressions (used a lot in
S.A.) “Go on!” and “Get away!” to
express wonderment were typically A us-
tralian, but in a 110-per-cent. English
crossword 1 found the clue “You don’t
say. (2, 2). The answer is—“Go on.”
Further to Australianisms, does anybody
know who Gundy was and what is the
story? A common saying when I was
a boy was “Its no good to Gundy” to
express distaste. And what does a Crow-
eater mean when he says—as I hear it —
“Nixcommarouse”?
*»♦ »j*
“Stromlo; 5 ; When a distinguished Aus-
Traliah scientist discovered some new and
magnificent aboriginal rock-carvings he
gave some stimulus to the passion for
“looking into things.” This is a current
craze in British universities. Research-
subjects chosen for coming expeditions
by the exploring societies of Oxford and
Cambridge include the structure of
glaciers in West Greenland, a study of
peasant culture in the Pyrenees, under-
ground exploration in northern Norway
tracing Crusader-castles in the Cilician
region of Turkey, and a study of the
commercial exploitation of the eider-
duck in Iceland. Can’t we have a studv
T. y
of WooJoomooToof
* >;♦
Glen Park”: Colonel Ethridge, in his
book All Over The World, devotes
several pages to the Australian aborigines,
stating that it is supposed that they came
originally from India when that country
was connected to Australia by water.
* * *
“Sister Ellell ’: The very elegant motor
for which my brother-in-law paid almost
3000-kervid is a masterpiece of restrained
design, especially in this age of tail-fins
the size of a whale’s and rear lights the
replica of cone-radiators—but neverthe-
less it is referred to by my schoolboy
nephews as “Dad’s heap! ”


POLITICAL POINTS
For the benefit of indignant New
Zealanders who thought otherwise, there
is absolutely no connection between the
offshore-islands dispute and Bill Went-
worth’s suggestion that N.Z. should join
the Australian Commonwealth.
• •
Alfred Ernest Shepherd, who collapsed
and died as he was about to address
the audience at the opening of a new
youth centre at West Footscray (Mel-
bourne), had been Leader of the Opposi-
tion in the Victorian Parliament since
the death of John Cain in August last
year. He entered Parliament in 1945
as M.L.A. for Footscray, was Minister
for Education in the last Cain Govern-
ment and Deputy-leader of the Opposi-
tion 1955-57. As leader of the A.L.P.
in the past 12 months he had earned the
respect of his opponents. He was 57.
• •
Sydney “Herald” seems to think the
police are towing the line.
• •
In a TV-interview Eddie Ward said:
“Labor could win the next elections.”
“Could,” it will be noted, not “would.”
In promising nationalisations right and
left he observed that this was “the
secret of full employment.” For the
bureaucrats?
• •
When the Mitchell Region boundaries
inquiry opened in Bathurst last week
Isaacs, Q.C., counsel for the Canobolas
Shire Defence Organisation, applied for
an adjournment, arguing that such
inquiries should be heard by a tribunal
set-up constitutionally by Parliament
and answerable to Parliament and not to
the Minister. Local Government
Minister Renshaw, he said, seemed to
have a fetish for amalgamating shires
and municipalities and for eliminating
shires. He felt that even if the commis-
sioner (H. W. Dane, of the Local
Government Department) reported
against the proposal to absorb Canobolas
Shire into the Orange municipality, the
matter would not be allowed to rest
there. There were ways and means by
which the brainchild of the Minister
could be given effect to.
Counsel for the Shires Association and
the shires affected supported Isaacs’s
application; Orange and Bathurst muni-
cipalities opposed it. Commissioner
Dane ruled that the inquiry should con-
tinue.
The remainder of the week was taken
up with the presentation of the Orange
Municipality’s case (fcf
and cross-examination of witnesses. On
Monday the commissioner visited
Orange and Canobolas shire to inspect
the areas involved.
• e
Nyngan is 386 miles north-west of
Sydney. When it suffered a blackout on
Friday evening locals thought officials
were wise-cracking when they said the
breakdown was caused by a dredge
fouling a power-line over Parramatta
OLD MAN OF THE (CHINA) SEA.
River. But it was right enough. This,
apparently, is one of the advantages of
having an interconnected system.
• •
Last month Ben Doig, Liberal M.L.A.
for Burwood in the N. S. Wales
Assembly, asked the Minister for Justice
to consider marking the papers of John
Charles Smith, now serving a life-sentence
for rape and murder, “Never to be
released.” He said that in view of Smith’s
past record, the trial judge’s remarks and
the fact that he would still be under
50 when his sentence expired, positive
action should be taken so that he would
have no chance of repeating his offence.
On Thursday Minister for Justice
Downing announced that he had endorsed
Smith’s pagers along those lines, also
asking any liiiuFe Jor Justice not
to reconsider the case without reftfflHS
it to full Cabinet.
• . •
Playford is satisfied at last over the
Snowy Mountains argument. He told
his Parliament last week that he had
now received from the Prime Minister a
copy of the new River Murray Agree-
ment and that it ensured South Australia
“adequate Murray waters for all time.”
• •
W. A. Chaffey, Country-party mem-
ber for Tamworth, proposed in the
N.S.W. Assembly that the N.S.W. Public
Accounts Committee should be given
powers similar to those of Professor
Bland's Federal committee; also that
it be asked to find out the reason foi
the delay in presenting to Parliament
the N.S.W. Auditor-General’s annual
report. He pointed out that the Com-
monwealth A.-G.’s report had been
tabled on August 19, but the State
watchdog would not be heard from until
about September 30 ; he urged the im-
portance of having the report available
to members before the Budget
debate. Motion defeated.
• m
“Ex-ACT”: The all-party
statute-law revision-commit-
tee of the Victorian Parlia-
ment, under the chairmanship
of Jim Manson, has just
completed a weighty task.
When the final report was
tabled in the Legislative
Assembly two Parliamentary
attendants staggered to the
table carrying armsful of the
Acts concerned. It is ex-
pected that the consolidated
legislation will fill eight
volumes —and it is hoped
that, in fulfilment of the
committee’s recommendation,
the former Parliamentary
draftsman, R. C. Normand,
will be called to the Bar of
the House to be thanked
publicly for his work.
Government building no longer com-
prises the major portion of new construc-
tion in Canberra according to Minister
for the Interior Allen Fairhall. The
Minister said that in the last financial
year £370,000 had been spent on Govern-
ment offices in the A.C.T., but private
offices to the tune of £454,000 had been
begun. In the same period work had
begun on industrial buildings worth
£250,000, on private housing worth
£1.7 million and on private schools valued
at £236,000.


This is “Made in Australia Week” in
Victoria and much more imaginatively
based than usual; edging-in against the
manufacturers are a Victorian Artists
Society show, an all-Australian cast in
the Elizabethan Theatre Trust opera
season, a show of self-portraits by Aus-
tralian artists, at the Gallery, and a dis-
play of aboriginal craftwork at the
National Museum.
• •
Adelaide and Brisbane are each to have
two commercial TV-stations, P.M.G.
Davidson told Parliament last week;
each will also have a national station.
The Broadcasting Control Board, which
investigated the applications for com-
mercial licences in the two capitals, recom-
mended only one station in each city,
mainly on the grounds that for either
of them to support two stations “a great
deal of the capital would have to be
obtained from existing TV-interests and
newspaper companies.”
In announcing the Government’s
decision the P.M.G. said he had asked
the board to make recommendations as
to which applicants should receive the
licences.
Three applications were received in
Brisbane and three in Adelaide. All had
some links with newspapers, and in each
case two were allied to existing stations
in Melbourne and Sydney.
• •
Forestry officials have warned that the
high cost of production of timbers from
native forests may mean that Australia
will have to import two-thirds of its
timber needs within 20 years. This is
bad enough for builders —and what are
the political parties going to do for
platforms?
• •
The Song of the Skirt! About 40
per cent, of all women’s clothing made
in Melbourne is put together in back-
yards or backrooms, by “manufacturers”
who work their staff up to 16 hours a
day and pay them £6 or £7 a week —
according to Douglas Cox, chairman of
the National Garment Manufacturers
Association. He says the result is that
unionist machinists and finishers in the
industry have declined from 93,000 to
71,000 in three years although the popu-
lation has risen by 400,000, and sales
to match
Victorian clothing-unions sadly con-
cur with Cox, who is a leading Flinders-
lane manufacturer. They say fines of
£3, when a case is detected, won’t stop
sweating.
• •
Walter Nash, Labor Prime Minister of
New Zealand, is advocating that Formosa
should become completely independent
and neutralised under United Nations
guarantee. This would be a happy solu-
tion if practicable, but is it practicable?
In the Security Council if Nationalist
China didn’t veto it, Russia would. And
if the proposal obtained the necessary
majority in the U.N. General Assembly
how would U.N. get Chiang Kai-shek
to accept it, and what would be the
attitude of Communist China towards a
demilitarised Formosa?
• •
Judge Mulvany, chairman of the Vic-
torian Police Classification Board, has
handed-out an extra £BB,OOO a year to
Victorian policemen, from £l5 a year
for third-year constables up to £2OO a
year to inspecting superintendents. There
are only a few of these top brass, and
their salary is £2700. It takes an honest
cop a long time to get rich.
• •
Desperate efforts by the A.L.P. to get
the D.L.P. preferences are doomed to
dismal failure. There are signs of rever-
sion to the discredited belief that Menzies
is the bete noir of many who would
otherwise support the Government, and
hence a suggestion of assurance for the
voters that a vote for the A.L.P. “is not
necessarily a vote for Dr. Evatt, but a
vote against Mr. Menzies.” Such tactics
would most certainly rebound against the
“Doc.” and his followers.
• •
“Mugga Way”: There is a popular
belief in Federal Parliament House that
Les Haylen is a major contributor to
Jack Lang’s “Century.” In a recent issue
Haylen was praised for “courage” in
referring to the presence in the Gallery
of visiting Jap politicians and for quip-
ping that they might be a crew to sail
H.M.A.S. Sydney back to Japan. Haylen,
famous as a hand-kisser of the. Emperor,
showed poor taste in his remarks, but it
is hard to see where the “courage”
came in.
• a
The Iceland fishing dispute isn’t just a
case of a small country attempting to
maintain its rights against a bigger one.
The question of seaward boundaries is an
international one and concerns many
other countries besides Iceland and
Britain. Australia is vitally concerned,
and at a conference on international law
a few months ago our representatives
opposed the 12-mile limit claimed by Ice-
land and some other nations. Indonesia,
for example, is also claiming a 12-mile
limit ; acceptance would mean that
virtually all the waters of the Indonesian
Archipelago, which have been inter-
national seaways for centuries, would
become closed territorial waters. These
things can't be decided unilaterally;
international agreement is the only way.
• •
Some attention is being paid to Aus-
tralia’s North-west. The Federal grant
of £2,500,000 for development of the
area will be spent on building a jetty
at Wyndham and providing port facilities
at Derby. Well, that’s a start.
• •
With 84 British exhibitors, the U.K.
has the biggest show —37,000 square-feet
of floor-space —at the Nuclear Power
Conference in Geneva. There are models
of nuclear power-stations, gas-cooled,
graphite-moderated reactors, boiling-
water reactors, and pressurised reactors.
.Various exhibits demonstrate design and
development in nuclear ship-propulsion.
There’s a heavy-water production-plant,
models of electron linear-accelerators, and
a variety of medical-aids ranging from
blood-cell counters to surgical needles
containing radiation-counters.
Just before the conference opened it
was announced that a contract had been
signed for the building by a British firm
of a Calder Hall type nuclear power-
station at Latina, on the Pontine Marshes,
40 miles south of Rome. The station
will have a capacity of 200,000 kilowatts
and will supply enough heat and light
for a town of 100,000 people.
A day later it was announced that an
Anglo-American group had got the
contract to build a nuclear power-plant
at Santa Lucia, near Havana, Cuba. This
will be a small plant of 22,000 kilowatts,
but the design will provide for future
expansion.
e •
Billy Sheahan, N. S. Wales Health
Minister —sometime Attorney-General,
sometime Minister for Transport, some-
time Minister for Lands —seems to be
guided in his rules for debate by the
advice offered by one Irishman to another
who arrived rather late at the scene of
an all-in fight and asked which side he
was on: “Don’t worry about that. If ye
see a head, hit it.”
In the police debate he lashed-out in
all directions, finishing-up by reminding
every person in N. S. Wales who has ever
been adjudged “not guilty” that the court
had not declared him innocent. On
Thursday he lashed-out again on the
subject of the new medical school, saying
that Opposition and press criticism was
inspired by "malice and ignorance.”
• •
Hitch-Hikers Anonymous, the Prahran
A.L.P. association formed to nark the
Bolte Cabinet because of the rise in fares,
has prepared stickers for motorists willing
to give lifts. Drivers are advised on the
stickers that it is an offence to solicit
fares, but gifts for charities may be
accepted.
• •
“S.”: After all his efforts, or because
of them, Leonard Warner, the get-
together and party-giver candidate in the
Melbourne City Council elections, polled
poorly, with a little more than a quarter
of the tally scored by sitting councillor
Tony Luxton. The council is pretty
much as it was, with 22 non-Laborites,
eight A.L.P. and three (down two) D.L.P.
It takes much persuasion to get city rate-
payers to throw out a councillor ; the
A.L.P. narrowly won the only seat in
which it clashed with the D.L.P.; the
margin was 195 votes.


PERSONAL ITEM
Back from the Chief of the Imperial
General Staff’s Conference and exercise
at Camberley, Surrey (Eng.), Lieut.-
General A. R. Garrett, Chief of the
General Staff, landed in Sydney after
his return journey via Canada and the
United States. He was very impressed
by American defence development. “It
must be seen to be believed,” he said.
• •
Canegrower, grazier, president of the
Australian Sugar Producers’ Association
CANE
and chairman of the Isis Central Sugar
Mill Co., William Alfred Brand is also
M.H.R. for Wide Bay (Q.), but says
he’s giving Parliament away at the next
Federal election. Canberra will miss him,
as a sugar-expert, and as a member
popular on both sides of the House.
Born at Childers (Q.) in 1888, Brand
(picture here) started to run his own
canefarm at the age of 20 and became
president of the Isis District Cane
Growers’ Association three years later.
Fie became president of the A.S.P.A. in
1943 and has remained so since. He
also grazes cattle at Miriamvale, north
of Childers.
Entering the Queensland Parliament in
1920, he was M.L.A. for 30 years (six of
them as deputy-leader of the Opposi-
tion). He won the Wide Bay Federal
electorate in 1954, beating F. M. Forde.
• •
Director of Westralia’s anti-T.B. cam-
paign since 1950, 47-year-old Dr. Alan
King was appointed resident M.O. of
Royal Perth Hospital in 1935. After
graduating at Melbourne University and
hospital-walking, he served some time
with the Flying Doctor Service. In War
II a captain in the 2/7th Field Ambu-
lance, A.1.F., he was captured on Crete,
and did good work among p.-0.-w. in
Germany.
• •
September 15-21 is Air Force Com-
memoration Week, synchronising with
England's Battle of Britain Week. This
year’s official guest-of-honor is Air-Chief-
Marshal Sir Basil Embry, G.C.8., K.8.E.,
D.S.O. (and three bars), D.F.C., A.F.C.,
holder of five foreign decorations and
of the Freedom of the City of London.
A legendary figure with the R.A.F. during
War 11, Sir Basil Embry retired in 1955
as Commander-in-Chief, Allied Air
Forces, Central Europe, and came to live
at Ardua, Boyup Brook (W.A.).
• •
Passing through Sydney on the way
to Hong Kong and Japan, Keith Blair
called in and gave The Bulletin crew
their first view of “Sevenelms” —named
his property at Lilydale (Vic.) after seven
elm-trees that stand on the hill, and
adopted the leafy handle as one of his
pen-names. Until seven years ago he’d
spent all his life with timber. Starting
in Victoria, his native State (he got
mountain-ash there ; reckons it's the best
of all hardwoods), he took time off to
go to England in War I in the Flying
Corps. In Borneo and the Philippines
he was interested in cedar, then went to
Canada and the U.S. after the big stuff.
Since he left the timber-game he’s started
a small Hereford stud. Built like a tree
himself, he’s got a strong sap of humor
and a whole leafage of interesting stories
of places and people—and timber.
• ®
“P.A.L.”: Dr. W. B. Sutch, one of
New Zealand’s colorful figures, has been
appointed secretary of the Department
of Industries and Commerce. He left
for the British Commonwealth trade
conference in Montreal a few hours after
his appointment—but that’s nothing new
for him: he’s been representing N.Z. at
overseas conferences since 1937.
Economist, author, lecturer and art-critic,
he first rocketed to general public notice
in 1933, when with Dr. R. M. Campbell
and Prof. Belshaw he figured in the
Coates “economic brains trust.”
• •
On the way to a holiday on Lord
Howe Island, J. H. Waxman, of Mel-
bourne, passed through Sydney. An
Ansett-A.N.A. captain, he was with the
R.A.A.F. in England during the war and
won the D.F.C. piloting bombers. His
present job includes giving flying-
instruction to new pilots ; he says the
rising generation’s airmanship looks
promising.
A highly-mobile executive whose
standard practice is to grab a toothbrush,
a pair of pyjamas and an air-ticket and
take-off for Venezuela or Siam or Japan,
Harry Goldberg directs the publicity for
Stanley Warner Cinerama, Inc. He
touched-down in Sydney, and in a
180-w.p.m. talk to the press-boys drew
a series of vivid word-pictures about the
wonders of Cinerama, a revolutionary
film-technique which gets away to a
gala-start tonight (September 17) at
Sydney’s Plaza Theatre. An old
Philadelphian pressman, he was once, in
a staff emergency, sent to review an opera.
Not knowing an aria from an overture,
he pumped fellow-critics about it during
the intervals, then churned-out his 400
words as to the manner born. One of
nature’s hustlers, he exudes geniality and
vitality in about equal quantities.
• •
At the southern end of George Street,
Sydney, Mick Smith’s sports-store is the
Mecca of many shooters. There’s an
armory when you go in at the door, with
marksmen to serve you, and a museum
of every type of firearm upstairs. Fish-
ing-tackle, too (sold by fishermen).
M. J. Smith (pictured), who owns the
store, was an international trap-shooter
from 1954-56 and a representative in the
N.S.W. team at the Olympic trials 1955-
56. His trap-shooting record is 250
clay-birds straight. He’s to be met at
all the local shooting-grounds, especially
at the Royal Aero Club, Bankstown.
Originally a hairdresser, he took to
selling fishing-tackle as a sideline: then
one day 11 years ago someone asked if
he stocked cartridges. This decided him
to start keeping them, and he went on
CARTRIDGES
to firearms. Took up trap-shooting seven
years ago to test his wares.
An interesting fact —the modern style
of shotgun with superimposed barrels
isn’t a new invention. The first model


was made for Napoleon Bonaparte.
Prices of guns are interesting, too. Smith
says you’ll get a Browning 12-gauge from
£l2O up to £525, but if you want a
Purdey you'll have to lay-out £lOOO.
9 9
“A.U.A.”: In Adelaide past and
present departmental heads assembled to
farewell Inspector A. P. H. Oke. Sir
William Dunk, chairman of the Com-
monwealth Public Service Board, praised
the service given by Oke over 50 years,
the last 12 as S.A. Public Service
Inspector.
o •
George Hyam, who has passed on in
Melbourne, was one of Victoria’s best-
known horticulturists. He broadcast
regularly for 15 years over the A.BiC.,
was a supervisor for 14 years with the
Department of Agriculture, as well as
associate-editor of “Your Garden” and
past-president of the Field Naturalists’
Club, the Horticultural Society and the
Anthropological Society.
• •
William J. Vines, managing-director of
Lewis Berger, one of the biggest paint
firms in the world, is in Australia looking
over the company’s plant and has been
meeting old cobbers at the Royal Mel-
bourne Golf and Athenaeum clubs. A
Terang (Vic.) boy who won a scholar-
ship to Haileybury College and many
accountancy honors, he started with Aus-
tralian Estates in 1931, but was soon
attracted to the growing paint industry.
In War II he was with the 2/23rd
Battalion, 9th Div. (twice mentioned in
dispatches). In 1950 he joined the local
Berger Co. as managing-director, and
in 1955 took a seat on the London board
and accepted the post of m.-d. almost
immediately. He was then 39, but the
English, unlike Australians, don’t think
that young for the boss of a big show.
• 9
“N.A.8.”: The annual dinner of the
Fort Street (Sydney) Old Boys’ Union
always attracts leaders in many walks of
life. This year’s guest-of-honor was Sir
Percy Spender, former Australian
Ambassador to Washington and now a
Justice of the International Court, and
Sir Garfield Barwick, M.H.R., proposed
his health. The oldest Fortian present
was J. A. Klein, former Director of
Education in Westralia. He taught at the
school in 1896 and gave Sir Douglas
Mawson, of the Antarctic, his first lesson
in geology.
• •
With the passing of Griffin Cant
Money, at 94, Westralia’s South-west has
lost one of its best-known and richest
personalities. Lawyer, politician and
farmer, he amassed a small fortune from
Bunbury real-estate and nearby farming
properties. Back in 1914 he inaugurated
the South-west Conference (a non-
political body to push the claims of the
South-west) and it has met annually ever
since. His son, Jack Money, is a well-
known farmer-grazier and owner of Cup
winners.
South Australian weather-man John
Hogan is nicknamed “Doc” to distinguish
him from his namesake and friend
John Hogan (they’re not related), who
was weather-man in Sydney and now has
gone to Melbourne.
“Doc” Hogan was bom at Boulder
(W.A.) in 1912 and graduated B.Sc. at
Perth University. He joined the
Meteorological Department in 1937 and
spent three years in New Guinea,
setting-up a weather-reporting station
there. In the war he was with the
R.A.A.F. He moved to Adelaide five
years ago and made himself popular with
farmers because of the longer weather-
CLIMATES
forecasts he produced. Australian Rules
football, cricket and tennis used to be his
relaxation ; now he golfs.
• •
Currently on a breathless tour, Sir
Cuthbert Ackroyd may today be either
in Melbourne, Hobart or Sydney—or, for
that matter, Hong Kong or Halifax. A
former Lord Mayor of London and
British national chairman of the Victoria
League, he aims to promote British
Commonwealth personal friendships ; he
wants young Australians and others
travelling in Britain to persuade the right
Britons to migrate to British Common-
wealth countries.
He’s a cricket enthusiast, and two of
the great moments of his life were play-
ing against W. G. Grace and at Lord’s.
He has a remarkable number of cricket
anecdotes and in Melbourne was looking
for Premier Bolte to tell him about a
cricket hit of 30 miles that Bolte’s Skipton
could never beat; the British Skipton
ball lodged in a railway-truck and got
carried to Halifax.
During World War I Sir Cuthbert was
accidentally buried, and ever since has
been slightly deaf. Just before he left
England, where he is a magistrate, the
clerk of the court advised a witness:
“Speak-up or he won’t hear you. This
Beak’s a bit deaf.” “Maybe,” said Sir
Cuthbert loudly, “but the Beak heard
that all right.”
© •
“R.R.D.”: With the cod war round
Iceland stealing the headlines from the
cold war it’s been something to the good
that the British Ambassador in Reykjavik
is Andrew Gilchrist. He’s about the most
imperturbable man you’d meet in a day’s
march. Short, stout, bearded and quick
on the uptake, Gilchrist has inherited the
sang-froid of diplomats of the old school.
Musical, and a writer of classic minutes,
he differs from the contemporary Foreign
Office type ; such breezy commonsense
might make you think him an Edwardian
cruiser-captain. He grew the beard which
is his badge while a p.-0.-w. of the Japs
in War 11, and his sense of humor also
owes much to that captivity.
• •
N. S. Pixley, of Brisbane, dropped-in
at The Bulletin office while passing
through Sydney on his way to the meet-
ing of the Federal Chamber of Com-
merce in Canberra. He served for 33
years in the Royal Australian Naval-
Reserve, and, in War 11, became its first
brass-hat, so it’s not surprising that he’s
president of the Queensland branch of
the Navy League. Hon. Consul for the
Netherlands in Queensland, he is also a
vice-president of the Queensland
Historical Society, past-president of the
Brisbane Chamber of Commerce and of
the Queensland Lawn Tennis Association.
• •
Into the Silence:
At Bunbury (W.A.), at 70, Waiter Guppy,
secretary of Bunbury Waterside Workers’ Union
lor a record 37 years, and one of the most
popular figures all-round on the Westralian
waterfront.
At Burnie (Tas.), at 72, Donald Pedro
Lucadou-Wells, itinerant dentist who travelled
with his caravan-surgery over many parts of
the Speck for upwards of 40 years. His six
brothers were also dentists.
In Sydney, H. V. Archinal, diocesan-secretary
of the Sydney Diocese. He had been associated
with the Sydney Diocesan Registry for nearly
45 years, and was a lay-secretary of the Synod.
In Sydney, at 57, John Harper, veteran radio-
announcer. His 29 years’ service on Station
2KY is claimed as an Australian record.
In Christchurch (N.Z.), at 83, Dr. Albert
John Orchard, who had been in practice there
for 60 years. Born at Elmora (Vic.), he arrived
in N.Z. in 1886, was educated in Christchurch,
then at Edinburgh. A major in the Kaiser’s
war, he helped to found the Returned Services
Association and took an active part in it.
In Sydney, Mrs. Julia Fitzpatrick, widow of
Stephen Fitzpatrick (whose soil-tests and experi-
ments in the early 1900’s proved that wheat
would grow in the North-west where once
only prickly-pear rampaged). She herself
organised homecraft, needlework and music
days to abate the loneliness of early selectors’
wives, and is remembered with gratitude by
people all over the Commonwealth.


ABORIGINALITIES
T iving in retirement in Perth is the Rev.
E. M. Collick, now over 80, and
known for most of his life as “the black-
fellow’s friend.” He was a young priest in
Coolgardie’s heyday, gave a helping hand
to everybody, black and white, and later
moved on to Kalgoorlie, where his annual
“blackfellows’ feasts” were a feature of
the town over 40 years ago. On the
feast-day aborigines came from hundreds
of miles around. As many as possible
were persuaded to have a bath as a pre-
liminary to dressing in donated clothes
(gay calico dresses for the gins). After
the feast (for which the whites were
waiters) there was a sports-meeting in
which bucks threw boomerangs and
spears. Then the nomads went bush
again, with expressions of “Good fellow
Mr. Collick!” They left their calico
dresses, etc., on the branches of trees on
the outskirts of the town as they went
walkabout. —“White Gum.”
* * * *
“D.8.H.”: On his first day on the
Gulf Country cattle-station Blue, who
came from Victoria’s Western District,
was told by the boss: “Get around the
boundary of the bullock-paddock, then
work in and see if you can locate half-a-
dozen killers we turned in there last night.
They’re pretty wild. Stay with ’em till
they settle down, and be sure you keep
’em off the fence. I’ll send a man to
relieve you at lunch-time.” Lunch-time
brought no relief. At three-o’clock Blue
rode in. “Forgot all about you!” said
the boss. “But you should have stayed
there. Get a bit of packing into you
while I go an’ make certain they’re all
right.” “They’ll be jake,” said Blue.
They were, too —lying on their sides, with
their legs tied with fencing-wire.
* * * <1
“Bilwon”: At Longreach (Q.) a
thirsty rider rode his horse into the bar
“No, you can't come in for tea tonight —We have visitors."
and called for a drink. Result: a fine
for “disorderly conduct.” The West must
be getting soft. It wasn’t so long ago
that a stockman would ride his horse
around the bar of an outback pub crack-
ing the tops off bottles with his whip.
The drinkers would usually pay for the
damage, reckoning it was worth it to see
such a fine display of whipmanship.
* * * *
“Ardoyne”: Latest complaint about
atom-bomb tests comes from pigeon-
racing enthusiasts, who claim that radio-
active fallout is affecting the birds’
homing devices. In two recent races
Adelaide clubs lost 2500 pigeons ; Mount
Gambier Club lost nearly all pigeons
in another race, and earlier this year
only three birds returned from a com-
paratively short race of 80 miles to Mil-
dura. Latest losses reported from the
Horsham Homing Club were heavy:
only two out of 34 birds came home,
though half of them. had covered the
same course previously. Looks as if
the boffins will have another problem
on their hands.
* * * *
“0.D.8.”: Tom’s farm was over two
miles from Sleepy’s across the valley, so
he was surprised when Sleepy asked
when he expected to finish his new
sheepyards. “How the devil did you
know I was buildin’ new yards?” asked
Tom. “Bought a telescope,” said Sleepy.
“Now I know whether you’re workin’
or not!” Tom looked across towards
the run-down farm Sleepy was trying to
keep out of the agents’ hands. “Anyway,”
he said quietly, “I can easy see whether
you’re workin’ on not —without a tele-
scope.”
v * * »
“Arthur R.”: Bush-cats have never
become a pest in Australia because,
having to battle for survival with other
bush creatures, and consequently being
often on short rations, their urge to breed
is severely restricted, in complete variance
with the well-fed domesticated kind.
* * * *
“Miss M.”: As our arms are not long
enough to enable us to read the maps
in school atlases we make much use of
the road-maps freely presented by the
Shell Touring Service. The Adelaide-
Darwin one is a special favorite, with
its thickly-sprinkled symbols indicating
wireless-transceivers; little aeroplanes
showing the Connellan Airways Network
(now, there's a service for you!); careful
indication of food-supplies and,
especially, water (“Bore-water in nearly
all cases”); and warnings about the
SUBDIVISION
Captain Ranfurle's daughter
Rode in the cockade morning,
Left the hat-brimmed homestead's
Outrider pines, dark-scorning
The gold-coined oak-tree pasture.
The exiled cypress mourning,
The willowing creek's green rain —?
Stared at the bronzewing treetops
Deep in the long jade gully,
Flicked a crop at the mountains,
The mare's mahogany shoulder,
Shrugged—“lt was father's folly
To choose this stifling valley,
But l will not remain . . .”
Five-acre farmlets hived then
On Captain Ranfurle’s pastures,
Whip-roads thonged the gully,
The wooden bridge rang hollow
Over the willowing creek.
Smoke, love's blue snakes dancing
Rose in the patterned valley,
Orchards whirled white maypoles
To the pines outriding still
Miss Ranfurle’s greenslopes hill.
Blue glass and ochre brick now
Ride Captain Ranfurle’s pastures,
Factory high as a fortress,
Wide as an English castle.
On Miss Ranfurle’s estates.
The thin blue snakes wind-coiling
Are pythons now, unrolling
From the furnace at her gates —
And through the lost maypole orchards,
The dark untidy gully
The combs of paling fences
Hold back the earth’s wild hair,
And a hundred mutinous daughters
Drive in the cockade morning,
Mock the cambric gardens
And the close suburban stare,
A hundred daughters scorning
Shrug—“l am stifled here . . .’’
VICTORIA.
JESSICA ALDRIDGE.


m£, But Apr£R. IHAT CftowPtP
Train- R.IP6 f-RPM THC CiTy • F££i. I AuMOSf
KNOW you. "
Si
KNOW m Y
AFftR all that / th/nk you
± SHQU up 6£ MAP£ r<?
MARRy.
ME/' J


probable state of some roads (“Must be
considered Hazardous” and many
“Definitely Dangerous”). One note
appears twice: “Shooting of horses,
camels, donkeys, cattle, sheep and goats
strictly prohibited”—an interesting com-
ment on “Irish’s” statement (B. 13/8/’5B)
that he shot a sheep now and again
when they wanted meat. In parts whefe
tourists were unknown, runs unfenced
and poddy-dodging (within limits) a
recognised practice, few owners be-
grudged the occasional traveller a bit of
fresh meat; but with the vast increase
in traffic through the Centre it is easy
to imagine how abuse of the custom has
led to its prohibition.
* * * *
“Mac’s”: The trio had been sitting on
the railway-platform seat for some time.
The stately woman sat between father
and son ; she was disgusted , with the
service. Father was smoking too many
cigarettes and Junior was much too fid-
gety. The express
screeched to a stop ; a
man uncoupled the
engine ; the driver spun
the gear-wheel, opened
the regulator, and away
went the engine. “Dad,
what’s that wheel for?”
asked Junior. Dad
started-off comparing
gears in motor-cars and
the similar effect in
steam-engines. “Don’t
be ridiculous,” chirps
Mum. “It’s the steering-
wheel. How do you
think they go around
corners?”
* * *
“Manamoi”: An in-
vention which should
delight lovers of mechani-
cal toys is the Maukin,
a combination scarecrow
and scare-gun designed
by an English farmer. A
sort of cut-out profile of
a man with a gun, it
swings in the wind like
a weathercock, produc-
ing periodical bangs and
puffs of smoke from the
barrel. It is said to be
100 per cent, effective
against wood-pigeons
and 95 per cent, against
shrewder rooks and jack-
daws. Being painted luminous scarlet it
should also put to flight any neighbors
homing after a heavy night. In Australia
—well, it might keep the rosellas out of
orchard and the sulphur-crests out of
the corn ; but. I’ll back Kelly, be he
raven or crow, to perch on its head after
the first day or so.
* * * •
“J.J.A.”: Owner of the first TV-set in
town remarked that TV has ruined him
for wood this winter: “They burn wood
by the ton while they’re looking at the
TV —takes a barrowload a night, and
they won’t ever want to go out now.”
“VTow I’ve seen everything! Young
learner-shearer with long bodgie
haircut wearing a woman’s hair-net to
keep the wool out of his eyes as he goes
up the long-blow!—“Weakstaple.”
ifi £ % sjc
“Gerard”: If, as “Sevenelms” claims
(B. 6/8/’5B), no timber is efficiently
seasoned in the log,* what about teak?
One of man’s most valued woods, it
is seasoned always not only in the log,
but as a ringbarked standing tree, and
thence becomes one of the few timbers
in the world suitable for ship-rails, deck-
ings and companion-ways. In those
situations, even unpainted, it doesn’t
split or shake, exposed as it is to ice,
snow, saltwater and tropical sun.
* * " * *
“Yanco”: The attractiveness or other-
wise of our country towns and townships
makes a comment on the inhabitants. A
“Then I realised I'd given him powdered-mamba
instead of bat-spit—and Was my face red!”
favored few (like Renmark and others
in S.A., including Nurioopta) are financed
by community hotels, and Hopetoun, in
Victoria’s Mallee, will soon join this list.
But people in other places, too, have been
organising creditable faceliftings, notably
at Wedderburn (Vic.), once a gold-boom
centre, where the people have bulldozed
and made attractive parks and playing-
areas. Another example of self-help is
Yarrawonga (Vic.), on the Murray, where
profits from the Globe Theatre have
raised £34,000, which Government grants
have boosted to £60,000. This money has
been used to build a baby-health centre
and improve other amenities, such as the
beautiful Lake Mulwala—a play-centre
favored by national wateCski champions.
The most humble township can boast at
least a hall or an oval, so it wouldn't take
much in the way of organisation to start
making “the best little town in Australia.”
* * *
“H.V.P.”: On the opening day of our
town’s annual Ppny Club Camp a five-
year-old jogged in astride a rough old
moke. Asked by one of the instructors
if she could ride, she replied: “I learnt
coming in from home.” Twenty miles
away’'as the crow flies 1 She was soon
one of the eager band of aspirants who
learn the hard way with the hope" ever
before them of one day being amongst
the riders at Sydney’s Royal Show.
Before the meeting ended someone asked,
the tiny lass how she was getting on.
She answered: “Good-oh! I can trot
and canter now, but what the hell do
they mean by this hacking?"
* * * *
“Sunray":' To get to the beach she
had to cross a lagoon, usually not very
deep, so she rolled up her slacks and
followed the others. Near the far side
she strayed a few inches from the path
and found herself up to her waist in
water. The beach was deserted, the wet
slacks very uncomfortable ; she removed
them and hung them on a tree to dry,
meantime wearing the dog’s towel. All
went welt till two men were noticed
coming down the track. There was a
yell, the lass' sprinted towards, her dry-
ing pants, the dog thought it was a game
and grabbed the towel and made off with
it. The lass flopped on the sand and
proceeded to dig herself in ; by the time
the men (friends of hers) arrived she
was covered with sand and blushes.
“Mossie”: Henare was up before the
Beak for beating his wife. Indignantly
he claimed he was justified in doing it
“because she was too clean!” He’d used
the buckle-end of his belt, as he con-
sidered it more humane than the pakeha
method of fists. Logic and ethics un-
availing,' he had to prise himself apart
from a tenner.
TREE-CREEPER CAUGHT IN A
ROOM
The child it was that found him out,
A baby creeper locked to glass,
That gave alarm With “father” shout,
Advanced by finger to the place.
Broad father’s hand, umbrella-ribs,
Hemmed the flutter, brought it close,
And showed it to the baby’s crib,
To mother’s heart and tender face,
And took it out beneath the sun
Where struggle, beak-pinch, sharp ensued,
And held the bird till fight was done;
We wanted kindness clearly viewed.
The steadied bird was then set free — •
Sprang with a tweet, with a flit,
And did a cake-walk up a tree;
He was light and made for it.
VIC.
NOEL MACAINSH.


A three-year-old goat in the Water-
ford (Q.) district has had quads —
brothers Bucko and Buckeroo and sisters
Wattle and Willow. Latest reports stress
that the old man is bearing-up under
the strain, but that he feels a bit of a goat
when chiacked about it by flie other'
stinkers and that s no kid! Meg.
* * * *
“Macquarie”: For centuries the build-
ing-trade has recognised seasoned cedar
as the ideal timber for spirit-levels and
plumb-rules, since it won’t crack, warp
“ Don't let him bluff you, Phil—the bigger they are the harder they fall.”
or twist with weather changes. There-
fore I pounced on a piece of cedar when
demolishing a building 113 years old.
I made it up into a level and set the
bubble-tubes. Came rainy weather, and,
although the timber did not get a drop
of rain on it, the bubbles were no longer
true. I took them out and reset them.
Three months later they went haywire
again. In less than a year 1 have had
to adjust the bubbles four times. Appa-
rently, despite its 113 years of seasoning,
that cedar is still affected by the weather,
although the eye can’t detect the slightest
twist or warp. Another level made
from cedar out of the same building has
upheld the cedar tradition to the very
limit: its bubbles could win an argument
with a theodolite.
* * % m
“Baksac”: Though buildings surviving
from the early days seem poor enough
in other respects, there are such touches
as the parapets of the poorest decorated
with ornamental plastering that must
have been costly even in those days of
cheap labor. One terrace in Newtown
(Sydney) has a sculptured eagle adorning
each end of the parapet—works of art
that probably cost more than the whole
wage-roll for a fortnight. Then there is
the o jd quarry on the west side of
Sydney’s historic Observatory Hill. A
sheer rock-face from 30ft. to 50ft. high
was j e ft a f{ er the last building-stone had
been cut away. Came that touch again.
Hundreds of spikes were set into the
stone from top to bottom ; a job that
must have taken months with the manual
tools in use then. The spikes are still
there. Their purpose? To hold the
strands of fencing-wire which supported
creepers hiding the bare rock.
* * * *
“Two Jays”: For some weeks now five
magpies have been playing it several
times a day. One sits in a bluegum
(he could be the ref.) and one on top
of a pine (this tree, curiously, is always
the second from the end of the group).
The other three then “dive-bomb” him
several times. Then one of the three
changes places with the “target,” and so
the game goes on. There are always
five magpies, and the rules never seem
to alter. The stronger the wind the
more enthusiastic they are. It’s the
closest thing I’ve seen in the avian
world to a human sports-contest, com-
plete with rules.
* * * *
“Narumee”: When the bottom fell out
of their cage during their daily airing
on the boom of the ketch the hen budgie,
with typical feminine presence of mind,
alighted on the dinghy-painter, used it
as a bird-walk to the deck and resumed
her sun-b.xth there. Cockie, however,
winged it for land and freedom, hitting
the drink before he'd managed 100yds.;
as there was a flat calm, his wing-bashing
kept him afloat until a dinghy-borne
rescuer arrived. Their owner reckons
they’re the only pair of budgies eligible
for membership of the Caterpillar Club.
* * * *
ABOUT BOWS AND ARROWS
■Cor the past 12 years I have been
putting wood to the most severe test
that can be imposed on timber —the
making of archery-gear.
Australian weather enables archery
clubs to shoot on an average of 40
weekends in the year. This means that
the wood in a bow is flexed to within
an inch or two of fracturing-point about
6000 times a year, and it isn’t unusual
for a bow to be in use for 10 years.
So severe are the demands made on
the wood in a bow that only six timbers
in the world can stand up to it. One of
them is the brigalow spearwood of
N.S.W. and Queensland; another, the
ghittoe of the Queensland rain-forests,
but only one ghittoe-tree in a thousand
has the necessary whalebone-like grain.
The world’s other bow-woods are yew
grown m mountain regions, the mock-
orange of the. U.S., the degame of Cuba,
and the tropical black-palm.
For arrows —-which bend when a bow-
string is loosed, and which must spring
straight again without vibrating in order
to be steady in flight—only a few of
the world’s conifers provide suitable
timber.
The wood for both bows and arrows
must be selected with great care, by
examining one standing tree after
another. Cutting must be done in cool,
damp weather to avoid cracking through
a too-rapid drying-out. As soon as the
tree is felled, the logs are split into
billets, and these are stood on end in
a cellar for two years. The bows are
then roughed-out and arrow-shafts
shaped to near size, after which they go
back to the cellar for another year.
Kiln-seasoning is definitely out. One
maker of sporting-goods, anxious to get
back to production after the war, listened
to the experts and had his bow-wood
seasoned in a kiln. A few thousand
bows were made from it, but they had
no life and soon took a permanent bend
—an expensive lesson.
The only craftsman who has to be
more exacting than the bowyer is the
violin-maker. His timber has to be
seasoned in a cellar for seven years.
Mention kiln-seasoning to any musical-
instrument maker, and watch out for
yourself.,
Artificial seasoning in a kiln is all
right for flooring-boards, case-shooks,
roof-timbers, etc., but those who have to
get the most out of wood still have to
do the same as the makers of wines,
whisky and brandy—hand it over to old
Father Time for at least three years, in
a cool, dry place.
BERT THE CARPENTER.


ALASTAIR W. MACDONALD
(MEMBER OF THE SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE )
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER,
117 Pitt Street, Sydney
Telephone BL 1504-5
Business, Robbery, Etc.
TV IN BRISBANE AND ADELAIDE
"Cederal Cabinet has decided
to grant licences for two
commercial TV-stations in
both Brisbane and Adelaide,
in addition to the national
stations that will operate in
each of those capitals.
Queensland and South Aus-
tralia will thus start-off with
the same number (three each)
of TV-transmitters as more-
populous N.S.W. and Victoria.
The Federal Government
has rejected the recommenda-
tions of the Broadcasting Con-
trol Board that each city should
have only one commercial TV-
station.
The 8.C.8. took the view
that preference should be
given to companies substantially
owned locally, not controlled
by TV groups from other
States, and that no network-
agreements should be entered
into with commercial TV-
stations in other States.
One station in each city
could be genuinely financed by
local interests, as the success
of the station would be assured
But with two licences in each
city a great deal of capital
would have, to come from exist-
ing TV 7 interests and news-
paper cos.
With two commercial
stations in comparatively small
capital-cities it would seem
likely that establishment on an
economic basis will take longer
than in Sydney and Melbourne.
Advertising revenue will be
smaller, while costs will remain
comparatively high.
The Broadcasting Control
Board came to the “irresistible
conclusion” that if a licence
were granted to any of the
companies applying for com-
mercial TV licences, “one or
other of the existing licensees
in Sydney or Melbourne-
would, in practice, be in a posi-
tion to exercise control of the
station.” Newspapers were
already interested in TV in
Sydney and Melbourne, and
were now seeking to spread to
Brisbane or Adelaide.
“The issue is whether this
expansion of the interests of
groups already powerful in the
field of mass communications
is to be accepted, or whether,
iiuthe public interest, the local
ownership of stations and the
independence of licensees is
the objective to be achieved.”
Overruled
With the overruling of the
recommendations of the Broad-
casting Control Board, it seems
that granting of the licences
“Call yourself a daughter of mine , you coward! Get
in there and fight!”
will be made to two out of
the three following appli-
cants in Brisbane:
Queensland Television, Ltd.,
in which (on a two-licence basis)
Amalgamated Television Services
Pty., Ltd., of Sydney (Sydney
“Herald” and A.W.A., etc.),
General Television Corporation
Pty., Ltd., of Melbourne, and
Truth and Sportsman, Ltd., would
be substantially interested;
Brisbane TV, Ltd., in which the
principal shareholders would be
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
Telegraph Newspaper Co., Ltd., and
Associated Newspapers, Ltd., of
London;
Consolidated Television
Queensland, Ltd., in which Con-
solidated Press Holdings, Ltd.
(Sydney), already interested in Tele-
vision Corporation, Ltd., Sydney,
would initially be the sole share-
holder.
In Adelaide, t<y two out of
these three:
Southern Television Corpora-
tion, Ltd., in which News, Ltd.,
would be the principal shareholder;
Television Broadcasters, Ltd.,
in which the principal shareholder
would be Advertiser Newspapers,
Ltd.;
Consolidated Television South
Australia, Ltd., in which initially
the principal shareholder would be
Consolidated Press Holdings, Ltd.,
of Sydney.
Newspaper Interests
The report said the Herald
and Weekly Times, Ltd.
(Melbourne), owned 85 p.c. of
the shares in Herald-Sun TV
Pty., Ltd., which holds the
licence for HSV Melbourne.
The Herald and Weekly
Times also holds 37.3 p.c. of
the shares in Queensland Press,
Ltd., which through its sub-
sidiaries in Brisbane, Queens-
land Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
and Telegraph Newspaper Co.,
Ltd., proposes to subscribe
28.2 p.c. capital in Brisbane
TV, Ltd., one of the applicants
for a commercial licence in
Brisbane.
The Herald and Weekly
Times also owns 37.7 p.c. of
the shares in Advertiser News-
papers, Ltd., Adelaide, which
proposes to subscribe not less
than 40 p.c. of the capital in
Television Broadcasters, Ltd.,
Adelaide, an applicant for a
commercial licence in Adelaide.
As has been demonstrated
in Sydney, where TV Corpora-
tion is listed on ’Change, public
investors in TV need to be
patient about returns, and
where there is competition from
another commercial station the
business is essentially one for
a company with strong finan-
cial resources. Newcomers, of
course, will have the experience
of the others to guide them,
and will be able to share pro-
gramme-costs where they tie-in
with stations in other cities;
but, as already mentioned, in
the smaller cities there will be
a' smaller audience and a cor-
responding lower revenue
potential, which is based
entirely on advertising, as with
commercial radio.
x -v- " ’
Masonite’s Plant Troubles
TJlant troubles are rarely
A unknown to any type of
manufacturing company, and
with a complete new plant
’‘playing - up” the effect
can be disconcerting both
technically and financially.
The new Eildon (Vic.) plant of
Masonite Holdings* Ltd., is a
big baby indeed, and its teeth-
ing-troubles have upset the
order of things in the Masonite
household quite a bit.
Plant problems have been
affecting production plans at
Eildon for the best part of a
year. Unexpected difficulties
arose soon after getting into
commercial production, so the-
co. had to get back onto trial-
runs again. Coupled with the
previous stretch of trial-runs,
there has been a costly drain
on the revenue being derived
from the main (and highly
efficient) Raymond Terrace
(N.S.W.) plant, and profits have
naturally been affected.
After depreciation (£159,121,
up £23,132) and taxation
(£49,393, down £183,207), and
making no provision for
replacement of depreciating


Cape York
"From
QUEENSLAND
\
* \
★★ to
NEW SOUTH WALES
victorm"
or
//
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson. C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Norman J. Carson,
C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton; F. S. Vine, C.M.G.
General Manager: John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and Riverina:
. S. L. G. MacDonald, Alhury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman):
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, 1C.8.E. (Vice-Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.; Bertram
J. F. Wright, M.8.E.; R. A. Irish; Duncan N. Mathieson.
Manager: A. B. Tilemann. Assistant Manager: A. G. W.
Dent. Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird. District Repre-
sentative for Newcastle: H B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Chairman);
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon;
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Charleville.
UT23a
assets (£50,000 last year), con-
solidated net profit for the year
to June 30 fell £72,467 to
£167,644.
Apparently the board has
decided to make a clean sweep
of losses on initial production
and has carried nothing to
establishment account. This is
sound finance that will pay-off
in the long-run.
To conserve finances during
this temporarily difficult period
no final div. is being paid, the
interim ofis p.c. for the year
having called for £109,373.
Production from the Eildon
plant is now of high quality, but
not at present in economic
volume. A considerable num-
ber of further adjustments are
considered to be necessary
before full and economic pro-
duction will be established.
Until the Eildon plant is
operating on a profitable basis
the board believes that finances
should be conserved.
There is a wide market for
Masonite products, and the
management, which has
achieved remarkable results for
shareholders in the past, can
be counted upon to turn
current difficulties into success
in due course.
At the first shock of the div.-
omission Masonite 10s. shares
slumped from 20s. 6d. to
15s. overnight, recovering later
to 17s. 6d. Upon'resumption
of a 10 p.c. distribution the
yield would be a shade under
7 p.c. Prospects of such a
yield within a reasonable time
look promising.
Meantime the stock will be
off the buying-list of major
unit-trust because of the div.
omission (as provided by the
trust's regulations). Private
investors will therefore have
more opportunity of buying
the shares.
Banks and Unit Trusts
The English, Scottish and
" L Australian Bank, through
a wholly-owned subsidiary, has
taken a 40 p.c. share-interest in
Federal Trusts, Ltd. The bank’s
branches throughout Australia
will act as agents for the
company.
Other shareholders in the
company are Walter P. Ham
and Co., sharebrokers, of Mel-
bourne, and Ralph W. King
and Yuill, sharebrokers, of
Sydney.
Orders for share-purchases
will be spread amongst
members of the Associated
Stock , Exchanges, and no
broker will receive more than
20 p.c. of the co.’s business.
Investment in the current
trust-fund can be made immedi-
ately through the bank’s Vic-
torian and inter-State capital-
city branches, and plans are
in hand to extend the facility
to all branches of the bank in.
Australia.
H. G. Ensten, g.-m. of the
E., S. and A., says that the
tie-up would enable the bank
to provide an additional service
to customers and the investing
public generally, and would
facilitate investment in unit-
trusts, which had a
popular medium both over-
seas and in Australia, where
they seemed assured of further
growth.
The unit-trust movement is
building-up in Australia follow-
ing the swift growth of the
business of Australian Fixed
Trusts Pty., Ltd., the major
operator in Australia.
A short time ago the Bank
of N.S.W. announced that it
was going into the unit-trust
business ; and this was followed
by an association between the
A.N.Z. Bank and Universal
Flexible Investments (N.S.W.)
Pty., Ltd.
Overseas the unit-trust and
investment-pool idea has had a
much wider appeal than has
so far been the case in Aus-
tralia. There appears to be
an opportunity for expansion
in the unit-trust field here, but
a shortage of industrial equity-
shares looks like hindering any
quick further development
along the lines already familiar.
More fixed-interest securities
will need to be acquired if yields
to unit-holders are to remain
attractive. Popular industrial
shares are being bought on
’Change to show a very low
yield, and it becomes increas-
ingly difficult. to buy any
quantity of good-class shares
without putting prices up to
unattractive levels.
Bearing Service (Holdings)
TJearing Service (Holdings),
** Ltd., will pay a dividend
at the unchanged rate of 15
p.c. in respect to the year ended
June 30, 1958. The dividend
will absorb £172,436 of the con-
solidated net profit of £430,622.
Preliminary figures from all
subsidiary companies, which
are subject to completion of
audit, show the following
results:
Year ended Previous
30/6/’5B. year.
Consolidated net
profit before
taxation, of
the co. and all
subsidiaries .. £687,622 £728,729
Deduct: taxation 257,000 272,300
Consolidated net
profit after tax £430,622 £456,429
Bearing Service (Holdings),
Ltd., was earlier in 1958
appointed sole distributor in
Australia and N.Z. for Aus-
tralian Timken Pty., Ltd., a
wholly-owned subsidiary of the
Timken Roller Bearing Co., of
Canton, Ohio, U.S.A.; the
largest tapered-bearing jnanu-
facturer in the world. The
Australian factory, at Ballarat
(Vic.), is now in production.
The new agreement with
Bearing Service (Holdings)
operates in Victoria from
December 1, 1958, and in all
other States it started on
March 1, 1958.
On the same dates the Bear-
ing” Service group, which has
subsidiaries in every State,
ceases to act as distributors for
bearings made in England by
British Timken, Ltd., which


S3SoiSS?»«* v -
-41A
ore ye.ye j&
£$W
*W*X
sh,
mm
\
:
m
" *i*i rn’i-fryfe
' 1 ’
wj
.
5
fSSfsSfi
e
%
fc
:
I
:■••••:
m;
SfSJ
**!%&
ICO% SCOTCH WHISKIES, DISTILLED & BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
Arthur Bell & Sons Ltd., Distillers, Perth, Scotland. Est. 1825
DAVIS, ROTHWELL & CO.
(Incorporating Heacllam, Hewson & Co.)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
(Members of the Sydney Slock Exchange.)
117 Pitt Street, Sydney-. 110 JLords Place, Orange.
BE 1855 (3 lines) Orange 4051
Telegraphic and Cable Address, ‘'RETEP,’’ Sydney.
has .formed its own Australian
subsidiary co. to act as dis-
tributors of the British Timken
products and F.B.C. ball and
parallel-roller bearings.
Until the Ballarat factory is
able to produce a full range
of tapered bearings, the Bearing
Service group will draw its
supplies from the seven Timken
plants in the U.S.A. or from
the Canadian plant. ' x
Up till this year all Bearing
Service supplies have been
imported. In addition to the
British Timken and Fischer
JF.B.C.) bearings, it has.been
distributing Hoffman bearings,
as well as supplies from other
manufacturers in the U.K.,
U.S.A. and Switzerland.
Davis Gelatine
A ggregate net profit of
Davis Gelatine Consoli-
dated, Ltd., and its subsidiaries
for the year ended June 30,
1958, was £243,635 (last year
£257,337), after providing
£117,990 (last year £78,610) for
depreciation and £141,297 (last
year £174,583) for taxation.
A final dividend of 5 p.c.
will be paid, which, with the
interim of 3 p.c. paid on
March 27, 1958, will make a
total distribution of 8 p.c. for
the year.
Hodgson’s Holdings, Ltd.
"Oodgson’s Holdings, Ltd.,
running a department-
store at Summer Hill (Sydney
suburb) has shown increased
profits for the past year. A
comparison with the previous
term is as follows:
1957. 1958.
Consolidated net
profit .. .. 24,593 31,301
Amounts charged
before arriving
at net profit:—
Taxation .. .. 16,960 14,008
Depreciation .. 767 736
Directors’ fees 1,125 787
Profit to capital 15.5 p.c. 19.5 p.c.
A final div. of 5 p.c. on the
ord. stock (making 10 p.c. for
the year same as last year)
has been recommended.
Sales expanded by 19.2 p.c.
over the previous year. Gross
profit was more than sufficient
to absorb uncontrollable rises
in working-expenses and the
costs of obtaining new business.
Trade-debtors are almost
entirely for time-payment and
hire-purchase customers.
Of the co.’s sales, 85 p.c. are
made on credit, with repayment
by instalments. This business
is gathered throughout the
metropolitan area and in near
country districts.
Unearned income, represent-
ing the proportion of interest-
receivable charges which is
applicable to the subsequent
trading period, equals 5.4 p.c.
of debtors. The nature of the
business is such that the average
term of repayment by instal-
ment-customers is short. As
a consequence, the ratio of un-
earned income to debtors is
relatively small.
All Set for Melbourne Show
‘“Entries for the Royal Mel-
bourne Show, 1958, reveal
that Victorians assured this year
of a truly national Show.” This
is the Show-eve summing-upLof
the secretary of the R.A.S.V.,
H. T. C. Woodfull. “Every
section of agriculture,” he said,
“is not only adequately covered
in the total of the entries but
splendidly represented, and
from my own personal obser-
vations of a wide area of " the
State I am satisfied most of the
stock will be at the top of
condition.”
- The Victorian fleece com-
petition has this year attracted
the largest number of new ex-
hibitors ever. Every State of the
Commonwealth is represented,
and New Zealand offers no
fewer than five individual com-
petitors. The long, dry Aus-
tralian season did not result in
anything but an.excellent entry,
and in spite of a fall in wool
prices more woolgrowers than
ever are interested in the fleece
competition and using it as the
yardstick for breeding-methods.
On the Monday immediately-
following the Show the exhibit
of fleeces will be restaged in
the banking-chamber of the
0.8. A. in Collins Street,
Melbourne (the bank spon-
sors the competition). A
week later it will move on to
the Royal Melbourne Tech-
nical College in its entirety, and
will remain there until the eve
of the 1959 Show.
The shearing stage in the
Centenary Hall has been re-
organised for TV purposes, and
top shearers will compete for
the Victorian championship
before the biggest audience they
have known.
An innovation this year is a
Fleece Weight Judging Com-
petition, also in the Centenary
Hall, an audience-participation
contest allowing woolgrowers,
on a post-entry basis, to test
their skill in estimating the
clean-fleece weight of sheep.
This year the entry in the
sheep section is the highest yet,
with 131 exhibitors (as against
108 in 1957) entering 1178
sheep. The entry would have
been higher had a restriction
to one entry in each ewe class
not been imposed. Poll
Dorsets, a breed never before
shown at Melbourne Royal,
provide strong entries.
Dorset Horns number 290
animals. Border Leicesters 200,
Southdoxvns 146, Cheviots 144,
Ryelands 117, Romney Marsh
104. Lowest offerings are Lin-
colns seven and Hampshire
Downs three.
The saddle-horse classes are
more popular than ever,
demonstrating the influence of
the pony-clubs and riding-
schools ; entries are 1828, as
against 1711 in 1957 and 1469
in 1956. Pony entries are 256
(245 in 1957 and 201 in 1956).
High entries in the horse
sections (4810 entries in all)
are not paralleled in the dogs,
though these are high and
include four new classes —
Weimar aners (gun-dogs),
Bassett Hounds, Shi Tzus and
miniature Pinschers.
Honey entries suggest quality
rather than quantity.
The entry of pigs has
declined from 590 to 541, but
interest is added by the new
class for the Landrace, a long,
lean baconer new to Australia,
of which four of the eight Aus-
tralian breeders are in Victoria.
All Landrace pigs shown are
progeny of imported sows.
In beef-cattle, Aberdeen
Angus entries show a spectacu-
lar increase—226. as against
179 in 1957, and the record of
199 in the year before, but the
Herefords are high with 104,
as against last year's Bf>, and
the record 98 of 1956. The
trend to lean beef and “what
Mum wants" will be illustrated
and will doubtless influence the
judging.


QUEENSLAND! KtuminiUM!
0*
1
INVEST IN
QUEENSLAND
Bauxite at Weipa and uranium at Mary Kathleen
foreshadow a new era of economic good fortune for
Australia. There can be no doubt that enterprises
such as these will become a new and vital source of
wealth and strength to the nation. But, looming large
in the future promised by these undertakings is the
ever-growing need for electric power expansion. Decide
now to share in this urgent task invest all you can
in the State Electricity Loan!
THE STATE
COM MISSION
OF QUEENSLAND
||gMa
GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED
fJ/7/6% is Australia’s highest Government-guaranteed interest
rate.
Short, medium or long term —5, 10 or 20 years.
Interest paid half-yearly FREE OF EXCHANGE.
You may deposit Io°/o balance in 3 equal instalments by
31/12158.
Securities will be listed on the Stock Exchange and are
negotiable.
APPLY NOW THROUGH
The Commonwealth
Trading Bank
Australia and New
Zealand Bank Ltd.
New South
Bank of
Wales
The Commercial Banking
Co. of Sydney Ltd.
Any Stockbroker, or direct to the State Electricity Com-
mission of Queensland, 447 Gregory Terrace, Brisbane.
Underwritten by
Charles A. Ord & Minnett


SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Royal Ballet
It is rather surprising that
Sydney, an allegedly ballet-
conscious city which has occa-
sionally gone into mild hysteria
over lesser ballet companies,
should not be more excited
over the Royal Ballet currently
at Sydney Empire. The general
standard of the company is
easily the best since the Monte
Carlo and de Basil’s Ballet
Russe were here, and, indeed,
one would be tempted to make
comparisons if time had not
dimmed and possibly en-
hanced —the memories of those
two companies.
Ballet, of course, is primarily
a matter of dancing. “Art,”
“vigor,” “poetry,” “imagina-
tion,” or what-you-will come
afterwards and cannot replace
the basic requirement of pre-
cise and exquisite pose and
movement, or conceal the lack
of it. They are something
added to the swat and sweat
of dancing; something that
emerges or develops and makes
a good dancer into a great
one ; or a good performance
into something better. That,
for example, was where the
last major visiting company,
the New York City Ballet,
wavered ; it lacked, on a
general standard, that first and
final precision of dancing, and
none of its exciting vigor could
conceal or make up for the
lack.
One has watched Boro-
vansky pursue this standard
over the years and seen him
achieve it in some uncommonly
brilliant flashes and with some
uncommonly brilliant dancers.
That his standards have varied
has been no fault of his ; they
have been governed by the
amount of talent available. In
his best moments he showed
how faultless ballet should be,
and one wondered if, to
achieve it, he even added a
few beatings to the endless
training, discipline, enthusiasm
and cajolery he must have
employed.
Possibly they even hold a
stick over this present com-
pany ; possibly it’s all done
with kindness. At any rate, the
overall impression it gives is of
discipline, training and talent
combined to produce dancing
as close to perfect as one might
wish for.
A second impression is the
consistency of the standard.
Rowena Jackson deservedly has
top billing. Her “Swan Lake”
on the opening night suggested
that what she lacked in the soft
fluidity of Margot Fonteyn
she more than made up for
with a hard brilliance that
“His first time playing Shakspeare and he WOULD
get a tick!”
suited Odile better than Odette ;
then, on the second programme,
she danced “Les Sylphides” so
softly and exquisitely that one
decided then and there she
could dance anything.
But if “Swan Lake” was all
Miss Jackson’s —with Philip
Chatfield supporting her very
gracefully—the second pro-
gramme brought forward
dancer after dancer to show
that the quality of the company
is as consistent as it is good.
“Veneziana” began as a gay
and colorful romp—possibly a
little over-posed in places —and
then Johaar Mosaval, as Pun-
chinello ; Margaret Lee, as La
Favorita ; Donald Britton and
Michael Boulton, as Harle-
quins ; and Audrey Farriss and
Noreen Sopwith, as Colum-
bines —all these elevated the
ballet to something much more
interesting by the sheer quality
of their dancing.
In satisfying contrast, “Vene-
ziana” was followed by the
dark intensity of “Blood
Wedding.” Based on Lorca’s
“The Fatal Wedding,” and with
music, choreography and story
admirably matched, it con-
cerns a bride and her lover who
run off on the wedding-night
and are pursued by a naturally
indignant bridegroom. Anne
Heaton and Donald Britton
gave some magnificent dancing
and a tremendous amount of
passion to the leading roles,
and they were closely followed
by Donald Mac Leary, as
The Moon, Elaine Thomas,
her feet stabbing like delicate
little knives, as Death, and
Michael Boulton, as the venge-
ful bridegroom.
The second programme—an
admirably balanced one
wound-up with “Pineapple
Poll,” in which JohaaF Mosaval,
as Jasper the Pot Boy, and
Donald Britton, as Captain
Belaye, again distinguished
themselves, and in which
Patricia Cox, as Poll, was intro-
duced as a brilliant little dancer
and very lively actress.
❖ ❖ ❖
Brisbane Youth Concert
Picking the music for youth
concerts must cause headaches,
because the audiences are big,
enthusiastic, and with endless
musical appetites. There is so
much music to choose from,
and so much for argumenta-
tive youth to discuss and
dispute that it is hardly surpris-
ing that orchestras find these
audiences the most stimulating
to play to.
Rudolf Pekarek has been
building his programmes with
a sound classical basis, topped-
off with modern works that are
often, a startling success —or at
least send his hearers home
feeling prickly enough to argue
about the quality of the music
afterwards. Without this
element of controversy, music,
like the other arts, goes stale
and is played to empty halls.
A Haydn symphony, the
“Military,” began the latest
youth programme by the
Queensland Orchestra, and,
save for some imprecise and
unmilitary trumpeting at one
point, its clear and shapely
tunefulness made an instant
impression on the young
audience.
Daniel Barenboim’s reputa-
tion having spread, a large
number of people came to
watch rather than to hear him
play the Grieg Piano Concerto.
His playing had its gymnastic
appeal, but it was also highly
musical, even if his vigor some-
times made him take the bit
into his mouth and rear away
from the orchestra.
The moderns were repre-
sented by Malcolm Arnold,
Aaron Copland and Jacques
Ibert. Arnold’s wild and bag-
pipe-flavored “Tam O'Shanter”
Overture was a fair match for
Burns’s famous poem, and the
orchestra played it with as
much devotion as if they had
been wearing kilts.
Then Copland’s “Billy the
Kid,” nostalgic ballet music
written in Paris. To a genera-
tion nurtured on western films,
the wistful cowboy flavor of
the music had no trouble in
making its impact, even if it
was occasionally disjointed
without the stage action to
explain the meaning of some
of its more obscure grumblings
and mutterings. Jacques Ibert’s
“Divertissement” was of
slighter musical value, showing
how a clever orchestrator can
be entertaining for 10 minutes,
even if he has very little to
say.
D. J. M-
♦♦♦ +>
“Murder Story”
Except for the painful irony
of its last act, Ludovic Ken-
nedy's misleadingly titled play
(Independent Theatre, North
Sydney) has little of the impact
and urgency one expects of a
dramatic protest against capital
punishment. It makes, rather,
a plain and upright appeal to
commonsense and common
sentiment; but within these
limits the author pulls out
every emotional and rational
stop he can reach.
The hero is a pathetically
passive and childish youth, the
victim of well-intentioned


HE HAS A
RUPTURE
A
. . . BUT HK
WEARS A
NEO-
-ISARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
l’he xbo - BAH-
rkrb acts like
a hand when
nlaced flat upon
the orifice. You will at once, without
efiort and in all movements, control
your hernia with comfort and
security. It cannot be displaced by
violent movement and has proved
completely successful by all who
have tried it.
Write today for Free Literature
Burrere Distribution Company
Dept. 3v, 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Now even faster handling of bulk grain!
mm
OUTPUT
CLEANING
HOLE AND
COVER
DRIVING
PULLEY
INPUT
■ ft
LYSAGHT
Grain Augers
A completely new type now available to fill
and empty Lysaght silos. Features Include:
• Unique centre-drive unit (patent pending
No. 22636/S6) as shown in insert below.
• Improved capacity.
• All working parts com-
pletely encased.
• Adjustable chute
tube.
HOW TO SELECT A VERTICAL AUGER TO FIT
A LYSAGHT SILO—CENTRE FILLING ONLY
SiLO
ERECTED
SILO CAPACITY IN BUSHELS
1,000 2,000 2,000 3,000 3,500 4,500 8,500
(squat)
Without Earth Ring Vl6lO V 2012 V 2412 V 2412 V 2814 V 3214 V 3614
With Earth Ring . V 2012 V 2012 V 2814 V 2814 V 2814 V 3214 V4OlB
SILO AND EARTH RING PRICES
(F.O.R. NEWCASTLE)
Nom. Cap. /
Bushels
1,000 ..
2,000 (Tall)
2,000 (Squat)
3,000 ..
3.500 ..
4.500 ..
8.500 ..
.ct. Cap.
Bush. Silo
1,280 £l3B
2,100 £2ll
2,410 £2ll
3,380 £275
3,780 £298
4,850 £453
9,250 £719
Steel
Earth Ring
£l6 15 0
£25 5 0
£33 10 0
£33 10 0
£33 10 0
£4l 5 0
£5l 10 0
Write for further information to:
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD. in all Capital Cities or
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED, NEWCASTLE WORKS
A39AYC
parental softness and neglect,
plus bad company. He did
not kill the London policeman ;
he was an unwilling but stupid
accessory. His busman father
has heart-trouble ; his mother
is nice ; his sister is pregnant.
In prison, helped by compas-
sionate warders and an under-
standing chaplain, he finds
himself ; and, just as the causes
of his wrongdoing have been
removed and he is ready for
a new life, the law hangs him
by the neck. What good has
been done? None. A sense-
less law has taken its course
without anyone—not even the
murdered policeman’s widow
•—wanting it to.
Obviously the play is not
against all capital punishment.
It makes no claims for the real
Teddy-boy killer. It pleads a
special case. It is a good, clean-
fighting Little Englander of a
play, and that is how producers
Noelann Gandon and Hugh
Stevenson set it up: straight-
forward, no frills.
The actors, though, seemed
a little overawed by the serious-
ness of it all, and at times
played as if they were con-
scious of being not so much
real characters as contributors
to a statement.
Dennis Carroll drew a bold
but uneven picture of the hero-
victim, lacking nothing in sin-
cerity but much in subtlety.
Though very effective on the
role’s violent side, he merely
underlined its other aspects;
so that in the end, when he
changed too suddenly into a
cheerful, healthy lad and faded
out for the execution, leaving
his parents and the chaplain to
moralise, we no longer quite
believed in him.
Brian Barrie, as the chaplain,
and Edward Hepple, as the
fatherly warder, gave the play
its strongest claim on the
audience’s heart and head.
Quietly certain of theii effects,
both gave a clear impression
of ordinary compassion
struggling against pointless
cruelty,
Frederic Abbott, as the
“detached”, warder overcome
by an irresistible sympathy
with the condemned boy, rein-
forced this impression, but
slipped at times into over-
emphasis, as if he could not
entirely feel the role. Gwen
Sevan and Ronald Dunkerley
were always warmly credible
as the bewildered parents.
J. A.
♦♦♦ *** ♦♦♦
“Ghosts”
Ibsen’s loathing of false and
duty-bound marriages of social
pretensions and useless sacri-
fice to useless ideals was effec-
tively argued by the Tin Alley
Players at Melbourne Union
Theatre in their production of
“Ghosts.”
Written in 1881, the play
follows “A Doll’s House,” and
both present the awful tragedy
of the evasive family worship-
ping vague notions of correct
behavior and striving at all
costs to conceal what they
commonly believe to be their
sins in the hope that their lives
will trek out, comfortable,
respectable, happy. They turn
blind eyes and shut flimsy lids
on a boiling cauldron which,
as Ibsen shows, can only result
in an appalling explosion.
Sometimes this final explosion
channels itself into a new view-
point, to enlightenment, as in
the case of Nora in “A Doll’s
House.” In “Ghosts” Mrs.
Alving, always on the brink of
emancipation, eventually sees
her position with alarming
clarity.
She has always felt that
there was something amiss with
their marriage. Her husband,
bored with marital felicity,
lapses into the arms of house-
maids and of liquor. One of
these indulgences results in a
child, later employed in the
Alving household as a maid.
Horrified and injured by her
husband’s infidelity, Mrs.
Alving flees to her old love,
Pastor Manders. An up-
righteously moralising gent, he
points her back to the path
of wifely duty and reminds her
of the paramount importance
of respectability. Mrs. Alving’s
guilt is grounded in her belief
that this was what she should
have been doing and thinking
from the outset. Thus, in
Ibsen’s terms, they live a false
life.
All her married life Mrs.
Alving has evasively worked
to conceal from society and
from her son Oswald, whom
she sends to Paris, the degrad-
ing failings of her husband.
She has never faced them.
When Oswald, now a young
man, returns home he is close
lo death, the sins of the father
having been visited on the son
in the worst form of the Bibli-
ca! injunction. In a last crav-
■ . f f ~ , •
ing tor pleasure he follows his
father's pattern and falls in
love with the housemaid who,
unknown to him, is his half-
sister. The mother, in a com-
passionate rush of pity, intel-
lectually overcomes her back-
ground, her education and the
world’s opinion and condones
the relationship. But she also
reveals the girl’s real position,
and, not content to spend the
rest of her youth ministering
to an invalid, the poor girl
runs off to Paris,
Michael Fitzgerald turned
in a moving performance as
Oswald. He conveyed the
temperamental nuances of the
d ? omed .£> un 8 ™ n y ’
gS ™ h ' as , , Mrs ' A ‘™ g ’
?? d ? OUg ' aS Ca ' dar ' as Past ° r
Maadere, brought t 0 their ™ les
maturity and conviction,
d •. curio .islv missed lines
• cu^°“ sly , misse( J lin^*
“ av . Cald . er . s P™ductton
and setting had been well and
lmaglnat,vel J' thought out
‘ ‘
* ♦♦♦
“The Gentle People”
In the 1930's the bankruptcy
of the secular humanists on
the subject of human evil
became apparent when they


THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England )
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOCTH WAXES OFFICE:
19 BRIDCE STREET. SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 4387 (2 lines).
L. E. THORPE. MANAGER.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO GERTRAUD FRIEDA REICIIEN-
BERGER late of Lot 2 Alexander Street
Smithfield.—TAKE NOTICE that FRANZ
REICIIENBERGER has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 473 of 1958 on the
ground of vour adultery with HAROLD
SCHUMANN If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
the 12th November 1958 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from H. G. LEVI & CO.. Solicitors, of
148 Phillip Street, Sydney.—J.
DOL T GHAN, Registrar.
■ NOTICE OF CITATION
TO LESLIE RUSSELL late of Carlton
Melbourne. —TAKE NOTICE that
WILLIAM SANDERSON has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 740 of 1957
from BESSIE SANDERSON on the
grounds of her adultery with you If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by the 31st October 1958
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. HICKSON,
LAKEMAN & HOLCOMBE, Solicitors. 10
Cast! ere agh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — lx Divorce.
TO GORDON WILLIAM CLARK late of
Darwin Northern Territory.—TAKE
NOTICE that RUTH ADA CLARK has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3051
of 1958 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards and is asking for the exer-
cise of the Court’s discretion under Sl9
(2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1899 (as amended) If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
Mint Building Macquarie Street Sydney
by the 26th November 1958 and obtain
a copv of the Petition without charge
from 'MESSRS. ROBERTSON PARK-
HILL ROFE & MOFFITT, Solicitors,
79-81 Pitt Street, Sydne y. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Missing Friend
ESTATE OF CAROLINE SIDDINS
DECEASED
FUGETT or MILLER, William, a son of
WILLIAM FRANCIS FUGETT and
CAROLINE FUGETT, nee HOLMES.
IVould anyone knowing his whereabouts,
death, or issue, please contact the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Svdney, re Estate
of CAROLINE SIDDINS.
tried to find reasons for oppos-
ing Fascism. So in the 1950’s
it is not surprising that a play
on human evil from that period
should seem thin and super-
ficial.
Canberra Repertory worked
hard on the material provided
in Irwin Shaw’s “The Gentle
People.” The producer, James
Leigh, created the atmosphere,
and rnoSt of the actors tried to
make the branches grow olit of
the stony rubbish. Harold
Goff looked seedy, squalid,
even satanic, but failed to
shock or horrify because Irwin
Shaw, at crucial moments in
the play, asks him to act like
a villain in the comic-strips.
Also, by the end of the first
act one has lost interest in this
evil one, because by then it is
clear that, whatever villainy he
commits, neither the intention
nor the ibid will illuminate the
human situation for the audi-
ence.
Tom Lowe and Paul Krieg
had the difficult task of creat-
ing the 1 ttle men who are
tom between submission and
resistance to evils, and
managed to create individuals
rather than types. Dot Camp-
bell really was a recognisable
human being a woman
punishing her husband for her
own failures. But, all in all,
the trouble with the play
is that it started with an idea,
rather than flesh-and-blood
human beings.
M.C.
Artbursts
Sydney Art
Sydney art for the week
consists of an exceptionally
attractive show of watercolors
by Enid Cambridge at the
Macquarie Galleries, “Mostra
Minima” at the Bissietta and
“Young Painters” at Terry
Clune’s.
“Mostra Minima” means
small paintings, and these are
mostly down to a minimum
without the extra concentration
that distinguishes the best small
works. Joe Rose, a little un-
certainly, has something un-
usual to say about flame-trees
and Tamarama Beach ; K. C.
Stlrton, with a weird arrange-
ment of birds in “Dream of
St. Francis,” is walking in the
steps of James Gleeson; but,
though there are other pieces
of minor merit, the show is
dominated by quite a remark-
able sandstone mask by Anton
Murre, bought by Prof. Bissi-
etta himself out of the last exhi-
bition. It has a Polynesian look
about it, and if you dug it up
OQ y Say* Easter Island, you
would certainly takS it hmilSr
The Young Painters are all
derivative, and it is hard to find
the touch of technical finesse
or original observation that
marks the new man coming
up ; but within those limits it
is a pleasant and reasonably
capable little show, with credi-
table works by Shay Docking,
John Montefiore, Ross Morrow
(the portrait, not the stripes),
Colleen Murray, Alice
Rochester and Frances Smith.
Ken Stirton surrealises again
with an ambitious and not-
ineffective “Blast of War’s
Great Organ.”
Enid Cambridge’s exhibition
is decidedly the show of the
week, and it has been selling
pretty well ; though the day
this commentator saw it there
were one or two more that
ought to go. Oddly enough,
Enid Cambridge seems to have
undergone much the same sort
of development—into a lighter,
warmer mood—as had Lloyd
Rees in his recent show at the
same address. She has always
had a capable formula, of
sombre colors and heavy
rhythms ; but it is pleasing to
see an escape from formula,
especially so successful a
departure as she has here in the
drawing “Biandford,” the
decorative “Overgrown
Garden” and the glowing land-
scape of “Canoblas.”
<£♦ ♦*+
Melbourne Shows
John Perceval’s angels,
showing at the Museum of
Modern Art in Melbourne, are
babies, and babies aren’t always
angelic. Mr. Perceval uses the
potter’s craft to model his
infants in various positions
and moods, including impish
angels, cross-eyed angels, an
angel with sparkling red
tummy and angels delinquent
and ingratiating. In most of
them the mood is very deftly
caught and simply rendered,
and a head called “The Bless-
ing” is comically tender. All
are colored with shining glazes
and not always successfully—
they look as if they had fallen
into pots of paint.
M. T. Woollaston, also show-
ing at the Museum of Modern
Art in Melbourne, was born
in the SfortK Island of New.
Zealand and is recognised in
the Shaky Isles as one of the
leading painters of his genera-
tion. He is in Australia under
one of the two annual fellow-
ships granted by the Federa-
tion of N.Z. Art Societies. His
landscapes of the coastal hills
and the lower alps and the
damp atmosphere of his island
might be described as good
starts —a few brush-strokes
deftly laid-down and selected
as a foundation, they are some-
thing that could be developed.
His portraits are even slighter.
Films
“The Yofing Lions”
Director Edward Dymtryk
has put Irwin Shaw’s big novel
on to the screen with remark-
able fidelity and, in three hours’
running-time, has managed to
point-up all its essentials and
drop in a fair measure of its
details.
It is a difficult novel to film
because of its episodic quality
and three character-stories in
widely flung locales, but the
director switches from story to
story, and scene to scene —say,
from Berlin, to an American
barracks, to London —without
loss of purpose or clarity. And,
finally, he takes the main
threads of the story and weaves
them into a denouement of
admirable filmcraft.
In the last five minutes, how-
ever, adherence to the send-
’em-home-happy dictum re-
quires that Ackermann should
return unscathed to his waiting
wife, and the film thereby
misses the irony Shaw wrote
into his final pages.
The director has drawn some
notable portraits from his
actors. Marlon Brando ha 9
never done anything better
than his Diestl, with his change
in character subtly limned.
Montgomery Clift makes
Ackermann a likeable charac-
ter, with his halting, awkward
speech and his roused spirit
overcoming his physical weak-
nesses. Dean Martin, essaying
his first straight role, does well
as the cynical playboy-
producer Michael. Hope Lange
is warm and sympathetic as
Ackermann’s wife, and Bar-
bara Rush is a coolly serene
Margaret.
At Sydney Regent.
❖ *** ❖
‘‘Bonjour Tristesse”
Shallow and long-winded,
this film, based on the Fran-
foise Sagan novel, deals with
{he Synthetic passions of a
feather-brained teenager and
the irresponsibilities of her
father, who installs in his
Riviera villa a mistress scarcely
older than his daughter. The
situations are artificial and the
dialogue wooden, and David
Niven and Deborah Kerr drift
through their roles as if they
couldn’t care less.
At Sydney State.


The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Broken Hill Proprietary
With an increase of 10 p.c. last year,
the B.H.P. group is now turning-
out ingot-steel at a rate in excess of
three-million tons a year. A million tons
yearly has been added to output over
the past four years, and extensions of
associated activity have taken place
in the same time. In 1939 output of
steel was a million tons. Including the
output of Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd.,
about 60 p.c. of the steel is produced at
Port Kembla (N.S.W.), which has become
the centre of many important subsidiary
activities, including the manufacture of
tinplate.
Last term production (the first
recorded) of tinplate totalled 39,482 tons.
Output now is approaching the installed
capacity of the hot-dipped plant—7o,ooo
tons a year. Average Australian usage
is 133,000 tons of tinplate a year, and
it is intended to supply all of this from
Port Kembla as soon as possible.
Tinplate is only the latest addition to
a long list of products based on the
development of the original Newcastle
steelworks. With its chief subsidiary,
Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd., B.H.P.
mines iron-ore at Iron Knob, near
Whyalla (S.A.), and at Cockatoo Island
in Yampi Sound (W.A.). Pig-iron is
produced at Newcastle, Port Kembla and
Whyalla ; it has collieries on both the
northern and southern coalfields of
N .S.W., near to its steelworks ; steel
and steel products in a wide variety are
turned-out at Newcastle and Port
Kembla ; it has its own shipping-line to
transport iron-ore, coal and limestone ;
and a rolling-mill began operations at
Kwinana (W.A.) in October, 1956. There
are also shipbuilding-yards at Whyalla,
which remain busy.
Subsidiaries and associated cos. process
steel in various parts of Australia, and
are of great assistance in stabilising
earning-power.
A. I. and S. opened a new continuous
wide hot-strip mill in 1955 ; it produces
the basic strip for the manufacture of
galvanised-iron, car-panels, refrigerators,
washing-machines, a variety of building-
materials and many other items.
Associated cos. produce wire, wire-
ropes, wire-netting, galvanised-iron, steel
pipes, nails, special steels and alloys, stain-
less-steel, hand-tools, tungsten-carbide-
lipped tools, steel fence-posts, cement,
oil-drums and hot-water systems, road-
making materials and zinc-oxide.
In July, 1957, B.H.P. acquired the hold-
ings of outside shareholders in Lysaght
Bros, and Co. Pty., Ltd. (Sydney), and the
Australian Wire Rope Works Pty., Ltd.
(Newcastle). A new subsidiary, Aus-
tralian Wire Industries Pty., Ltd., will
consolidate these wire and wire-netting
interests with two other wholly-owned
subsidiaries—Rylands Bros. (Aust.), Ltd.
(Newcastle), and Bullivants Australian
Co. Pty., Ltd. (distributors of wire-ropes
in Sydney).
Though export sales of steel, which
were abnormally high during the iast
financial year, have since fallen away
(except to N.Z.), the demand for steel
and steel products within Australia has
not been appreciably affected so far by
changing overseas economic conditions.
“Facilities added in recent years are now
playing their part in production,” the
directors say, “and those now being
installed will further increase our pro-
ductive capacity . . . The demand for
steel is increasing with the further
development of manufacturing industry,
and this, combined with the growth of
population, will require additional sup-
plies.”
Basic production by the two steel-
making divisions last year was as fol-
lows: —
Steel Blooming
Coke, Pig-iron, Ingots, Mill,
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
8.11. P. .. 7,045,214 1.030,358 1.662,914 1,093.995
A. & S 1.048,909 1,237,062 1,302.574 1,410,599
Total, 1958 2,094,123 2,267,410 2,965.488 2,504,594
Total, 105 7 2,01 am)
Expansion of production showed-up in
almost every subsequent processing of
the basic iron and steel, with the possible
exception of some fencing-materials.
High levels of production, and export
sales at prices above those obtained in
Australia, have enabled the group to
absorb increased costs, which are now
running at the rate of £4} miliion more
a year since domestic selling-prices were
last raised in 1956.
Last term the growth (£8.2 million)
in working-profit and sundries (£37.6
million) compared with a lift of £7.2
million in the preceding year, and £7.6
million in 1955-56:
Consolidated Figures.
(Covering both group and outside interests.)
Gross earnings— 1956. 1957. 1958.
£ £ £
Working profit... 21,486,751 28,524,196 36,286,760
Divs., etc. . . 786,738 917,762 1,308,699
Total . . 22,273,489 29,441,563 37,595,459
Depreciation . . 6,719,343 7,864,513 10,125,015
Provision plant re-
placement .. 2,995,000 4,145,000 6,120.000
Taxation .. 5,603,634 9,598,569 11,496,966
Other exes. .. 475,958 566,776 780,636
Total exes. .. 15,793,935 22,174,858 28,522.617
Net profit . . 6,479,554 7,267,010 9,072,842
Profit sale assets. . 49,452 11U,255 226,377
One of the outstanding features of
B. financial policy during its present
programme of massive outlay on new
plant has been to allow liberal deprecia-
tion and make large provisions for the
high cost of plant-replacement. Deprecia-
tion last year was £lO.l million (up £2.3
million) and plant provision £6.1 million
(up £2 million). Though taxation at
official levels bears a 3 : 5 ratio to net
profit, B.H.P. set aside £11.5 miliion for
taxation (up £1.9 million) and showed
net profit at £9.1 million (up £l.B million)
—a tax-profit ratio of roughly 5.7 to 4.5.
According to these necessarily arbitrary
figures, the net earning-rate on share-
holders’ funds was 11.1 p.c. (against 10
p.c.), and on share-capital 19.2 p.c.
(against 20.5 p.c.). During the year
£8,059,920 of share-premiums was trans-
ferred to capital, and the dividend rate
was afterwards reduced from 10 p.c.
to 8| p.c. This has had the effect of
making new cash-issues of ord. shares
cheaper to service.
In 1951, 6,458,175 ords. were offered
to shareholders at a 10s. premium; in
1954, 4,993,815 at a 10s. premium; in
1957, 5,992,578 shares at par and a bonus-
issue (capitalisation of premiums) of
8,027,039 f.-p. £1 shares ; in 1958, an
additional 8,846,847 ords. at par for cash
and 251,727 shares to acquire the outside
interests in Lysaght Bros, and Australian
Wire Ropes. This made issued capital
£53,081,080 in £1 shares last balance-day,
when 10s. was still to come in on the
last issue to shareholders.
No further issue of shares is considered
likely until 1959 at earliest. This is
indicated also by the comparatively
liquid state of finances at May 31 last
and the knowledge that 10s. a share on
the new issue was due on Sept. 29:
CONSOLIDATED FIGURES.
Shareholders’ Finds and Liabilities.'
1956. 1957. 1958.
£ £ £
Paid capital . . 28,337,586 35,955,467 48.773,100
General reserve.. 16,416.873 20.880,791 25,485,838
Share - premiums 7,240,209 8,052,920 •
Alining plant and
development .. 2,600,000 1,700,000 1,450,000
Excess par-value
over cost of inter-
co. holdings .. 2,078,636 2,784,814 2,984,847
P. & 1. balance 1,010,852 1,552,365 2,949,023
Outside holdings
in subsids. .. 2,593,064 2,740,691 2,434,172
Shareholders’
funds . . 60,277,280 73,667,048 84,076,980
Provision plant-
replacement .. 4,085,000 5,830,000 14,950,000
Overdrafts .. 2,743,776
Mortgages .. 6,102,822 6.502.822 12,235,260
Trade creditors. . 5,812,057 6,972,523 7,741,234
Sundry creditors,
accruals and tax
provision .. 23,314,706 30,778,867 35,962,332
Inter-co. suspense 2,293,121 5,472,694 1,055,448
105,225,702 132,223,954 156,021,254
ASSETS.
Fieeliolds, lease-
holds . . . . 1,019,139 1,920,910 2,591,727
Machinery,., plant 64,967,267 81,052,526 93,139,274
Shares other cos. 1,938,023 6,382.456 3,116,123
Stocks .. .. 24.775,399 29,583,358 33,652,807
Debtors .. 8,031,893 9,043,138 8,765.130
Govt, bonds .. 3,897,041 1.685.315 12,118,670
Cash .. ..
105,228,762 132,223,954 156,021,254
Outlay on freeholds, leaseholds, plant
and machinery last term was £22.9
million, compared with £24.2 million in
the preceding year. Deducting deprecia-
tion, the net growth was £12.7 million.
Capital-outlay at last year’s rate is
expected to go on for several years, and
will be financed from share-capital, bor-
rowing, ploughed - back profits and
various provisions. Last term mortgage-
loans were increased from £6.5 million to
£12.2 million, and this year the figure
is expected to be raised to £2O million.
Under a proposed agreement with the
S.A. Government the co. aims to spend
£3O million on a steelworks at Whyalla
by 1970.
Coinciding with the £68.6 million spent
on fixed assets over the past three years,
capital-issues brought in £22 million and
share-premiums £1.6 million, or together
about a third of the capital-outlay. The


remainder of the finance required for a
total balance-sheet expansion of £69.5
million since 1955 came from deprecia-
tion and plant-replacement provisions,
substantial ploughed-back profits, £5.7
million from fixed borrowings, an
increase of about £2 million in trade
creditors, and a lift of £16.4 million in
the item “sundry creditors and accrued
charges, including provision for income-
tax, etc., £35,962,332.” This is equal to
more than all the provisions for taxa-
tion during the past five years.
There has been a steadying in the
momentum of expansion in the huge
B.H.P. undertaking, with, for the present,
a tendency for the rate of capital-outlay
to level-off. Prospects of increased divi-
dends to shareholders will depend a good
deal upon when there is to be some relief
in the rate of profit-retention for expan-
sion purposes, and upon how soon (and
how remuneratively) previous expansion
pays-off. The chairman has pointed out
that, “generally, a considerable time
must elapse between the planning and
the commissioning of new facilities.”
In the B.H.P. group there are 54,054
shareholders ; in B.H.P. alone 50,652.
This spread of investment interest is
an excellent thing; but shareholders
(they have never had anything
luscious out of the steelworks)
shouldn’t expect too much too soon.
Particularly should speculation based on
prospective “ market - increment ”be
avoided. As it is, in paying 48s. for the
fully-paid shares, the immediate return
on an 8j p.c. div. basis is only £3 9s.
per cent.
A. G. Webster & Woolgrowers, Ltd.
Woolbroking is only one facet of this
many-sided Tasmanian business,
which takes in, besides, livestock, pro-
duce, property and machinery-dealing
and which also functions as a shipping
and airline agency.
Nevertheless, wool is an overriding
consideration, and the firm’s ability to
maintain a serene exterior against last
season’s disappointing background speaks
for itself. The far-less-promising current
term will be a rigorous testing-time, but
the Hobart and Launceston series come
late in the year and there is some hope
of a moderate revival before then, as
the current U.S. and world economic
spasm slowly eases.
In the pre-war decade earnings and
dividends tended toward patchiness, but,
under the war-time wool-acquisition
scheme, the co.'s profit-barometer began
a rise which accelerated after the return
to free-trading.
Until June, 1950, paid capital stood
at the original £90,000 issued when, in
1910, A. G. Webster and Son, established
1831, made its public float under the
same style, and included £20,000 of 1\
p.c. cumulative prefs. Swift changes that
month followed a write-up of freeholds.
The holders of the then 20s. ords.
received 105,000 shares as a three-for-
two bonus and at the same time an
injection of fresh capital was obtained
by the public issue of £BO,OOO of 5 p.c.
“B” prefs. Ordinary shares were then
converted to ss. units, and a further
300,000 ss. ords. issued at par, one-for-
one, to the original pref. and ord. share-
holders.
Properties were again revalued in the
1954-55 term, by £130,000, and the fol-
lowing year £125,000 of the tax-free
reserve thus created was allotted to
equity shareholders as a one-for-two
bonus. In September, 1955, the “B”
pref. dividend-rate was lifted to 6 p.c.
and the “A” prefs. converted to the
same scale upon the issue of one bonus
6 p.c. cum. pref. for every four “A”
prefs. then held. Both classes afterwards
ranked equally.
Early in 1956-57, A. G. Webster, Ltd.,
amalgamated with the Tasmanian Wool-
growers’ Agency Co., Ltd., its very
prosperous north-area counterpart, which
had an all-ord. paid capital of £92,000.
As consideration, Woolgrowers’ share-
holders received one 6 p.c. 20s. pref. and
seven ords. in Webster’s for each 40s. of
scrip held.
Averaging-out over the past three years
at 26.4 p.c., and deviating by less than
2 p.c. either way, earning-rates on the
average ord. capital of this obese, yet
vigorous, Tassie outfit apparently give a
somewhat delustred picture of the true
earning-power. In the past the board has
been in the habit of tucking away titbits
of profit into inner reserves and these
materialise from time to time in the
profit-table:
, Dividends N
5&7J p.c. 16§ p.c. To Re- Re-
June Profit. Pref. Old. serves. serves.*
30, £ £ £ £ £
Goodwill written-off, £17,703 .. 240,434
1951.. 91,998 5,500 41,667 44,831 222,731
1952.. 88,454 5,500 41,667 41,287 264,019
From inner reserves, £39.070 . . 303,089
1953.. 91,373 5,500 41,667 44,206 347,295
1954.. 97,092 5,500 41,667 49,925 397,220
From inner reserves, £48,618 .. 445,838
Assets revalued, £130,000 .. .. 575,838
1955. .100,215 5,500 41,667 53,048 628,885
Tax overprovided, £5296 .. .. 634,181
Revaluation res. capitalised, £130,000 504,181
6 p.c. 15 p.c.
1956. 6,300 56,250 38,090 542,273
Unexplained additions following
amalgamation, £154,244 .. .. 696,517
1957. .130,623 10,440 65,641 54,542 751,059
1958. .131,806 11,820 65,325 51,661 802.720
* After deducting intangibles, written-off in 1951.
Representing an unchanged 1.3 p.c. on
a slightly higher turnover of £9,850,274,
the term's £131,806 record net earnings
(up £1183) were struck after allowing a
commensurate taxation provision of
£67,900 —last year’s was £89,000 —and
£19,450 for depreciation on plant (not
previously disclosed). Dividend for the
ordinaries was an unchanged and very
easily covered 15 p.c.
Flere are comparative figures for sales,
net profit as a percentage of turnover,
and taxation provisions since 1953:
Tax
Sales. Profit to Sales. Prov.
1953 .. £4,637,446 1.6 p.c. £77,000
1954 .. 5,025.171 1.4 „ 54,000
1955 .. 5,336,170 1.8 „ 70,000
1956 . . 5,282,060 1.8 „ 68,000
1957 .. 9,833,773 1.3 ~ 59.000
1908 . . 9,850,274 1.3 ~ 07,900
During the year total assets increased
by £784,455. On the liabilities side, the
main sources of new funds were the new
item, £400,000 of loan-stock, and a
£369,262 increase in bank-borrowings.
The 7 p.c. registered unsecured stock
was issued early in the current calendar-
year for the purpose of financing a new
building programme at Launceston and
on the n.-w. coast and for reinforcing
the working-capital of a business which
is obviously growing by leaps and
bounds. Of the £400,000, £150,000
matures in February, 1951, £150,000 and
£IOO,OOO two and four years later
respectively: —•
Paid capital—■ 1956. 1957. 1958.
Pref £105,000 £197,000 £197,000
Old. ... .. 375.000 455,500 455,500
Reserves .. ~ 542,273 751,059 802,720
Mortgages ..
Loan Stock ..
Overdraft.. .. 390,621 504,437 873,699
Creditors .. .. 385,435 784,815 704,051
Staff fund .. 153,313 179,205 224,701
Final div. .. 34,400 43,868 43,868
£1,986,042 £2,973,384 £3,757,039
Freeholds .. .. 414,245 657,065 706,520
Plant .. .. 80,603 123.085 154,168
Stock .. .. 515,712 655,118 841,003
Lebtors .. .. 897,545 1,434,294 1,938,303
Shares, bonds .. 77,937 103,822 117,045
£1,986,042 £2,973,384 £3,757,039
Fattened by a healthy £51,661 withheld
from the year’s distributables, reserves
and undistributed profits now total
£802,720, giving prefs. each a net
tangible assets backing of £7 7s. Bd.,
while the ord.-cover is 13s. 9d.
Book-debts went up by £504,000 to an
all-time high of £1,938,303, and provision
for bad-debts is more than adequate,
reports the board, whose avowed policy
it is to confine advances to clients to
the short term.
Included in sundry creditors is an
undisclosed tax-provision and also sundry
deposits (including property-sale deposits)
to a total of £132,531 (up £31,071).
Pastoral equities are at present- being
weighed very carefully by the share-
market. It would, however, take more
than one or two seasonal steadiers to
upset Websters’ aplomb, and the growth
prospects of the ss. ords. aren’t played-
out yet. ‘ Yield is £5 15s. 4d. p.c. from
a current market-price of 13s. (Sydney
’Change).
Frederic Ash, Ltd.
A fter a check to sales in 1956-57—the
result of slackness in home-building
activity that was apparently not offset
by increased commercial building in New-
castle —Frederic Ash in its past term
reported expansion in turnover again.
A 103-year-old supplier of builders’ and
plumbers’ requirements, hardware, etc.,
Frederic Ash, Ltd., has its headquarters
in Newcastle and branches in Lismore
(opened 1910), Cessnock (1924), Wollon-
gong (1928) and Leichhardt (plateglass,
shopfronts, etc., only).
The co. over the years has profited
from the general expansion in both the
Newcastle and Kembla steelworks areas
and from the prosperity of the northern
rural centres where its branches are. It
has, too, a “substantial interest”
(acquired 1933) in R. S. Exton and Co
Pty., Ltd., of Brisbane and Toowoomba.
The co. is also interested in Harlequin
Products Co. Pty., Ltd. (disinfectants,
polishes, liquid soaps, etc.).
Another interest, Vencore Veneers
Pty., Ltd., apparently has not been as
successful recently as the rest of the
business and its investments.
Over the past two years no pro-
vision has been made in the accounts


Telegraphic & Cable Address
PATRICK &
“Rosdale” Sydney.
COMPANY
R. H. ALLEN M. R. L. DOWLING
I*. R. LEVY . A. P. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
16 O’Connell St., Sydney. Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. 8L5911. Tel. B 5900.'
Your SAVINGS can
earn EXTRA MONEY
for any period from
6 months to 5 years
At interest rates up to
Y
Interest paid
every 3 months
6 months 5%
9 months 55%
1 year 6%
2 years 6\°/o
3 years 7%
4 years 7\°/o
in this new
o
o
FOR
YEARS
£600,000 Registered First Mortgage
DEBENTURE ISSUE
DIRECT
CASH ORDERS
LIMITED
18 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. BW 1633, 8W6428
APPLICATIONS: Prospectus containing full details
and application forms is available from:—
• THE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES (any branch In
N.S.W.)
• Any member of a recognised STOCK EXCHANGE
• DIRECT CASH ORDERS LIMITED *
TRUSTEE FOR DEBENTURE STOCK HOLDERS:—
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited).
UNDERWRITING BROKERS Ralph W. King &
Yuill, Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
DIRECTORS:
F. E. JONES
W. J. Farram
J. W. Douglass
MAiL THIS COUPON to Direct Cash Orders Ltd.
18 Martin Place. Sydney. Please send me your prospectus.
NAME
ADDRESS
10364 a
for “a loss incurred by the
subsidiary company.” Shares
in the subsidiary appear at
£48,250, and advances at
£39,235 (up £17,821 last
term). In previoius years the
offshoot had made undisclosed
profits, which were ploughed-
back each year. In the 1956-
57 term the parent itself
“became associated in the
establishment of a veneer-
peeling plant, to ensure regu-
lar supplies to the subsidiary
company.” In the present
accounts advances to an asso-
ciated company appear at
£17,883 (down £5680).
Frederic Ash, Ltd., does not
separate its investment income
from its own trading profit,
and its p.-and-l. figures have
always been difficult of
analysis. Last term, after
allowing £6404 (up £2356)
for depreciation and £49,400
(down £10,000) for taxation,
net profit was shown £7194
higher at £79,613:
Re-
June, Profit. , Dividends N serves.
£ £ £
1951. .67,946 15 p.c. = 34,500 145,989
Net additions, £5471 .. 151,460
1952.. 192 12f p.c. = 33,750 185,902
Back taxes, £l5B .. .. 185,744
1953.. 157 121 p.c. = 33,750]
Prov. long-service leave, !- 214,036
£Blls J
Back taxes, £930 . . . . 213,106
1954.. 017 15 p.c. = 40,500 ]
Prov. long-service leave, !- 250,623
£9OOO J
1955 111,804 171 p.c. = 47,250 315,177
Tax overprovided, £12.648 327,825
1956. .89,062 15 p.c. = 40,500 376,387
1957.. 72,419 15 ~ ~40,500 408,306
1958.. 79.613 15 p.c. = 40,500 447,419
The result was a juicy 29.5
p.c. on capital, compared with
26.8, 33, 41.4 and 32.2 p.c.
back to 1954. As usual, no
trouble was experienced in
handing shareholders the 15
p.c. that has been maintained
now for the past five years
(plus a 2i p.c. bonus in the
co.’s centenary year) and
almost as much was handed-
out as was carried to reserves.
Since conversion to public
status seven-and-a-half years
ago just on 255. a share has
been added to reserves, while
shareholders have been
handed 225. 6d. a share in
dividends. At present reserves
are equal to 335. a share,
making total net tangibles, on
book-values, 535. for each £ 1
share.
Book-values appear to be
particularly conservative, on
the whole:—■
19f>7. 1958.
Paid capital .. £270,000 £270,000
Reserves .. 408,306 447,419
Overdraft.. 157,458 139,625
Creditors, etc. 161,217 166,586
Final dividend .. 27,000 27,000
£1,023,981 £1,050,630
Freeholds.. ] ~r
Plant .. f 191 >'75 190,012
Shares subsidiaries 48,250 48,250
Shares other cos. 73,691 73,691
Stock . . .. 382.048 398,328
Debtors . . . . 278,988 277,191
Due by associates 44,877 57.118
Cash . . .. 4,352 6,040
£1,023,981 £1,050,630
Fixed assets, a mixture of
freeholds and plant since the
1955 balance-day, include four
freeholds in Newcastle and
premises of all the main
branches, with a spare free-
hold here and there. There
appears to be undisclosed
strength in this item. Stocks
at £398,328 showed an up-
ward movement of only
£16,280 last term, and were
listed at lower of cost or
market-value. Trade debtors
recorded little change. The
outside debt is kept well under
control, and has shown very
little variation over the last
three balancing - periods.
Liquidity is good.
The hardware trade has
been more difficult lately, and
some in the business have
suffered reverses. This led to
the lowest price (445.) for
several years being paid for
Frederic Ash shares during
the past few months. Follow-
ing publication of the accounts
there has been a recovery to
475., cum 2s. in dividend. At
that figure, allowing for the
dividend, the yield is a satis-
factory 6k p.c. on a 15 p.c.
div. basis.
Adelaide Chemical & Fer-
tiliser Co., Ltd.
of the most fundamental
and widely-based on the
Australian manufacturing
scene, the chemical-fertiliser
industry as such has an under-
standable popularity with the
investing public. Much of it is,
however, subsidiary to larger
and more widespread interests,
notably B.Ff.P. and E.Z.
The two paramount soil-
additives produced locally
are superphosphate and
ammonium-sulphate. In ton-
nage-demand, superphosphate
predominates, keeping busy 20


G. H. PARTRIDGE & CO.
1,. D. PARTRIDGE, A. G. HANSON
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
113 Pitt Street, Sydney Telephone: BL 5031-2
A. W. HARVEY, LOWE & CO.
STEPHEN LOWE & GII.EES T. KRYGER
Stock & Sharebrokers
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
5 Elizabeth St., Sydney. Teleg. Address
BW 2451 UNITY
manufactories in all States,
main producers being Victoria,
South and Western Australia.
The base material is natural
phosphate rock, imported from
the three islands, Nauru, Ocean,
Christmas, where it is mined by
the British Phosphate Commis
sioners.
In South Australia, the three
producers . of superphosphate
are Adelaide Chemical and
Fertilizer Co., Ltd., Port
Adelaide (paid capital
£550,000); Cresco Fertilizers,
Ltd., Port Lincoln, Wallaroo,
Birkenhead (£733,165); and
Wallaroo-Mount Lyell Ferti-
lisers, Ltd., Wallaroo and
Birkenhead (£336,900).
A steeply rising demand for
the necessary reagent, sulphuric
acid, has focused attention on
the extraction of sulphur from
native sulphide-ores such as
pyrites, since elemental sulphur
has to be imported mainly from
the U.S., with a consequent
drain of dollar resources.
In a drive to make the State
self-supporting in its sulphuric-
acid requirements, the three
producers joined forces in 1951.
Firstly, a joint subsidiary,
Nairne Pyrites, Ltd., was
formed in association with
B.H.P. to mine the pyrite
deposit at Nairne. Paid capital
was £200,000, each co. sub-
scribing a quarter-share.
Later, the fertiliser trio pro-
moted a second float, Sulphuric
Acid, Ltd., Birkenhead, to
roast the Nairne output, each
affiliate subscribing an equal
£lOO,OOO. The £2:?-million semi-
automatic acid-plant has an
annual capacity of 100,000 tons
of acid, and will, when fully
operating, require 70,000 tons
of concentrates annually. Pro-
duction of pyrite concentrate at
Nairne commenced early in
1955.
Both projects were financed
by massive loans provided by
both State and Commonwealth.
Further assistance is given
through the Sulphuric Acid
Bounty Act, 1954-57, under
which there is provision for
payment of a bounty on sul-
phuric acid produced in Aus-
tralia from indigenous pyrites
and lead-sinter gas during the
five years from July 1, 1954.
The rate of bounty is £2 per
ton when the landed cost of
imported brimstone is £2O 10s.
a ton and rises and falls by
Is. 9d. for each ss. by which
the landed cost is above or
below that figure. The Tariff
Board is considering extension
of the bounty.
Although neither subsidiary
is yet operating at peak
capacity, Adelaide Chemical is
drawing its major requirements
of acid from these sources,
which have to date been unable
to pay any dividends to the
promoters.
Fertiliser sales tend to be
sensitive to seasonal conditions,
which weren’t the best over the
term. Profit for the year, how-
ever, showed only a small
decline, due to increased sales
of base acids and other
chemicals. Earnings slipped
£6870 to a net £109,571, after
setting aside £79,150 (down
£850) for taxation.
Total depreciation charged
against earnings isn’t disclosed,
but since fixed assets were
revalued in 1953 the provision
has been made on the basis of
the higher plant values. Rates
applicable to this industry have
lately been increased by 50 p.c.,
but the board is still providing
for depreciation at a level in
excess of the “normal” figure
allowable as a deduction for
taxation purposes. Wear, tear,
and corrosion is a heavy
charge.
In the table below, the excess
and the appropriations credited
to plant-replacement reserve
last term are treated as
profit:
( Dividends N
4j p.c. Re-
Jne., Profit. Pref. < Ord.—serves.
£ £ £ £
•51.. 47,673 7125 124= 27,963 225,487
Tax underprovided, £8173. . 217,314
Profit sale assets. £15,440 232,754
’52.. 43,997 7125 124= 27,963 241,663
Assets revalued, £202.158.. 443,821
Share premiums, £25.000 . . 468,821
Reserves capitalised, £74,596 394,225
’53.. 64,567 7125 124= 33,685 417,982
Share premiums, £25.000.. 442,982
’54-127,435 7125 124= 48,750 514,542
Tax underprovided, £7335.. 507,207
’55-112,772 7125 124= 50,000 562,851
’56-122,222 7125 124= 50,000 627,953
Assets revalued, £277,725 .. 905,673
’57-116,441 7125 124= 50.000 964,994
'5B-109,571 7125 124=50,000 1,017,440
Once again distribution was at
the 12| p.c. rate which has
ruled since 1951, and the com-
bined pref. and ord. divs.
absorbed little more than half
the visible profit.
At the annual meeting to be
held today (Sept. 17), share-
holders will be asked to ratify
the capitalisation of £50,000 of
the share-premium reserve
(£150,150), and £150,000 of the
assets - revaluation reserve
(£541,189) in the form of a
one-for-two bonus issue to
ordinary shareholders, and at
the same time to authorise the
issue at par of 200,000 shares
(one-for-three post bonus).
As a special resolution,
leave will be sought to lift the
div.-rate on the existing 4} p.c.
cum. prefs. to a more equitable
6 p.c. Paid capital will then
stand at £950,000, including
800,000 20s. ords. and 150,000
prefs.
The board cautions that
there is unlikely to be any
immediate increase in the effec-
tive rate of ordinary dividend,
which, it is anticipated, will be
reduced to 8j p.c.
• There have been three share-
issues over the past decade.
The prefs. were issued in 1948,
and in 1953, a bonus issue of
74,596 ordS. was followed by
a cash placement with the
public of 100,000 ords. at a
premium of 10s. each.
The balance-sheet highlights
a steady progress:
Paid capital— 1957. 1958.
Pref £150,000 £150,000
Old 400,000 400,000
Reserves .. 964,994 1,017.440
Creditors .. 99,520 132,915
Tax provision .. 81,530 84,384
Final divs. .. 33,562 33,562
£1,729,606 £1,818.301
Freeholds .. 412,478 375,810
Plant .. .. 556,250 547,303
Shares .. .. 150,005 150,005
Stock .. .. 283,672 372,365
Debtors . . .. 147,969 162,794
Cash, bonds 179,232 210,024
£1,729,606 £1,818,301
At recent sales on Adelaide
’Change, the 20s. ord. scrip was
bringing 625. 6d., cum div.,
cum rights. The effective cost
to the buyer who takes up his
full entitlement is therefore
355., ex-rights, and on an 8|
p.c. scale his yield will be
£4 15s. 2d. p.c. p.a., with
reasonably good prospects of
income-improvement. On the
basis of the higher capital, net
tangibles, after deducting the
prefs., will be 40s. sd. a share.
Hotel Metropole, Ltd.
r T' I HE disquieting fall in wool
prices will not be purely
unilateral in its effects, but
that traditional haven of the
sheepman who comes periodi-
cally to the big smoke, Sydney’s
popular and convenient
400-bedroomed Hotel Metro-
pole, is well provided with the
wherewithal to tide it over
a possible counter-current in
earnings.
No doubt influenced by the
fall in farm-commodity prices
and the general drought, last!
year’s rate of occupancy
dropped, but apparently a
re-outfitting in favor of the
higher standard (and higher-
tariffed) proportion of guest-
space helped to offset the
decline.
During the year the interior
of the Phillip-street section of
the building was renovated
throughout, and the number of
bedrooms -with- bathrooms
doubled to 84.
To these alterations was due
the £62,553 increase in the total
shown against fixed assets in
the balance-sheet, and also the
fall of £59,217 in cash, or near-
cash, holdings:
1937. 1938.
Paid capital .. £302,412 £302,412
Reserves . . 146,066 156,190
Renewals reserve 15.000 15,000
Creditors . . 34,920 32,690
Tax provision . . 32,278 29,536
Final div. .. 22,681 22,681
£353,357 £558,509
Fixed assets .. 331,335 393,888
Stock . . . . 8,790 8,313
Debtors .. 10,769 13.,062
Government securi-
ties, cash . . 202,463 143,246
£553,357 £558,509
Profit for the year was steady
at £45,775, after providing
something for depreciation and
£29,000 (down £2750) for taxa-
tion, and represented a return
on share-capital of 15.1 p.c., as
compared with 15.1, 14.2, 15.8
and 12.1 p.c. back to 1954:
Net Re-
June, Profit. f —Dividends—serves.*
£ £ £
From deferred repairs reserve,
£4OOO 108,445
1950.. 31.633 124 p.c. = 31,501 108,577
1951.. 124 ~ „ 31.501 112.789
Tax underprovided, £3OOO. . 109,789
1952.. 26.843 10 p.c. = 25,201 111,431
1953.. 114 „ ~ 28,891 114.959
Revaluation assets, £53.888 168,847
Res. capitalised, £50,402.. 118.445
From tax reserve, £9878.. 128,323
1954.. 114 p.c. = 32,761 132,258
To renewals reserve, £5OOO 127,258
1955.. 779 124 p.c. = 37,802 137,235
Long-service prov., £4500.. 132,735
1956.. 120 124 p.c. = 37,801 138.054
1957.. 813 124 „ „ 37,801 146,066
From tax reserve, £2150 .. 148,216’
1958-45,775 124 p.c. = 37,801 156,190
* Excludes renewals reserve, £15,000,
30/6/’57.
Share-issues have been in-
frequent, the £50,402 tax-free
bonus handed out in 1954 on a
one-for-five basis being the first
for 20 years.
The sharemarket is content
with a yield of £5 19s. from the
scrip’s current selling-price of
425. Visible net tangible assets
of 30s. 4d. cover each 20s.
share, but despite a £53,888
revaluation in 1953, Metro-
pole’s freehold certainly
wouldn’t be overvalued in the
books.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ADRIAN ROYCE YOUNG formerly
of 2 Amaroo Avenue Strathfield in the
State of New South Wales Shop Assist-
ant—TAKE NOTICE that JOAN MARY
YOUNG has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2592 of 1958 on the ground of your
desertion for three years and upwards.
If you wish to defend you may enier an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Old Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by the 19th
November 1958 and obtain a copy of
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
COLREAVY, O’LEARY & McGINTY,
Solicitors, 26 Bridge Street, Sydnev, city
agents for W. H. LUCHETTI, Soficitor,
137 Pacific Highway, North Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1818
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS'.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. 0. S. PETTERSEN, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Wellington, September 8.
HThe howl of dismay with
A which the dairyfarmers
greeted the Government’s
original guaranteed-price pro-
posals for the current season
has had its effect.
The Government will now
provide enough finance to
enable a price to be fixed
equivalent to 32d. a pound for
butterfat for butter and 3d.
more for butterfat for cheese.
The new price will represent
at 10j per cent, reduction on
that for last season, which
was calculated to give farmers
36.25 d. a pound for butterfat
for butter and 3d. more for
butterfat for cheese.
The price is considerably
better than the Government's
opening offer this year, which
was equivalent to 30d. a pound
for butterfat for butter, or,
alternatively, 32d. a pound for
the first 10,000 pounds, and
market-realisations thereafter.
According to industry
spokesmen, the new price is at
least 16 p.c. below production-
costs. It will cut the farmer's
gross income by 1H p.c. and his
net income by 39 p.c.
Generous Treatment
Leaders of the industry
directly concerned in the nego-
tiations with the Government
have indicated that a sub-
stantial measure of agreement
was reached. Some others,
however, have shown a
tendency to be critical.
They should think again. The
industry has been treated
generously.
It is true that its present
plight has been caused largely
by the dumping of dairy-
produce on the U.K. market
by other suppliers, but the fact
remains that the industry
would have been in a much
happ : er position today if it
had husbanded its reserves in
the past as it should have done.
It has no cause now to look
the gift-horse in the mouth.
Of course, some industry
spokesmen say it isn’t a gift-
horse. They emphasise that all
the dairyfarmers are getting
is a loan.
That is strictly true. But they
have already had about £8
million, and taxpayers would
like to know how much more
they will be getting, where
the money will come from, what
rate of interest it will carry
and how' and when repayment
will be made.
The amount required for the
current season is likely to be
considerably more than the £5
million provided for by taxa-
tion in the recent Budget. Pre-
sumably the extra money will
come from Reserve Bank
credit. In that case everyone
will bear part of the cost in the
form of inflation. Nothing has
yet been said officially about
the rate of payment or about
arrangements for repayment.
Some such arrangements
should be made, otherwise
N.Z. will leave itself open to
the very charges of dumping
which it has levelled against
some of its competitors.
The new guaranteed price is
away ahead of prices now
being realised on the London
market. London prices are
£235 a ton for butter and £lB5
a ton for cheese. But, to cover
the guaranteed prices, butter
would need to bring £316 a
ton, cheese £l9l a ton.
On the basis of current prices
the dairyfarmers are going into
the red to the extent of £Bl for
every ton of butter sold and
£6 for every ton of cheese sold.
Of course, it is hoped and
expected that prices will im-
prove as a result of British anti-
dumping measures. But
whether they will improve suffi-
ciently to cover the guaranteed
price, let alone accumulate
funds for repayment of
borrowed money, is, to say
the least, doubtful. On the
face of it, the risk is not one
which would be accepted with
equanimity by a prudent lender
in normal business.
F. P. Walsh’s Opinion
The president of the Federa-
tion of Labor, Mr. F. P. Walsh,
who is himself a dairyfarmer,
has been strongly critical of
the agreement.
“The new price is following
the old pattern of maintaining
a high payout on borrowed
money with no prospect of
repayment in the foreseeable
future,” he said. “The dairy
industry is no longer borrow-
ing in anticipation of future
income. It is like a man in the
hands of the moneylenders
who keeps borrowing des-
perately before he ends-up in
bankruptcy Eventually it
must accept market-realisations
as the only basis on which to
assess incomes, but by then will
be unable to pay its debts. The
taxpayer will need to foot the
bill.”
•.. and A. Linton’s
There is, of course, another
side to the story. It was put
by the chairman of the N.Z.
Dairy Board, Mr. A. Linton.
“Had the dairyfarmer’s
price been cut-down to the
artificially low level ruling in
London as a result of dumping
there would have been wide-
spread unemployment in rural
areas and country towns,” he
said. “There were many
farmers who would have pre-
ferred to take realisations only,
so that the full impact of un-
employment would be suffered
by the country. They con-
sidered that this would have
been the best and quickest way
to get costs down in N.Z. If
it had happened the taxpayer
might not have been standing
behind a loan to the dairy
industry, but he would have
been paying taxation on a much
greater scale to meet un-
employment-benefits.”
The essential point that
emerges from all the argument
is that the current season’s
guarantee must not be regarded
as any sort of promise for the
future, but merely as a
temporary support to give the
dairy industry and the
country as a whole—a breath-
ing-space to face-up to the
hard fact that in the end N.Z.
cannot consume more than the
equivalent of what it pro-
duces.
In recent years N.Z. has
been seeking avidly for an all-
embracing security. It should
be plain by now that it has
been going the wrong way
about it. Security cannot be
obtained by any ingenious way
of dividing up the national
income, but only by increasing
that income.
Midland Bank Loan
N.Z. has concluded arrange-
ments to borrow up to £lO
million by way of overdraft
from the Midland Bank,
London. The loan will be for
two years, to be drawn upon
as needed to meet balance-of-
payments requirements over the
next few months. Interest will
be 1 per cent, more than the
Bank-rate (now 4{ p.c.) fixed
from time to time by the Bank
of England.
Because of seasonal factors
in the production of N.Z.’s
main exports, overseas funds
normally build-up in the first
half of the year and decline in
the second. The overdraft
arrangement will make if
possible to draw on the credit
when funds are down and to
repay temporarily when they
rise.
Arrangements have also
been almost completed for a
loan “in the dollar area” at
3y p.c. for four years. The
Minister of Finance, Mr. Nord-
meyer, told the House this
\vhen a bill authorising the
Reserve Bank to pledge its
gold and other assets was before
it. It is understood that the
amount of the loan will also
be about £lO million.
Mr. Nordmeyer said it was
imperative that N.Z. borrow
overseas on an extensive scale
this year, but he did not want
it thought that this was a
permanent feature of Govern-
ment policy. There would, in-
escapably, be some borrowing
next year, but, unless there was
a bad deterioration, it would
be on a much lesser scale than
this year. He hoped that in-
creasing prices would enable
the country to repay its short-
term loans without reborrow-
ing, and that the only
permanent debt would be
from long-term loans.
Gamlen Chemicals
Mr. Harry Gamlen, chair-
man of the board of directors
of the Gamlen Chemical
Company, an American
organisation with representa-
tion in 44 countries and fac-
tories in many of them, has
been in N.Z. negotiating the
establishment of another link
in the Gamlen manufacturing
chain. The company makes
chemicals and solvents for
cleaning and maintenance of
equipment in industry and
transport.


Uncle Fred's Christmas
By JOHN O'G RADY
("Nino Culotto")
It was on again when they came back to the pub after tea, and Uncle Fred was
inclined to think the beer cure was no good.
Uncle Fred was a
character. They reckoned
he was two days older
than the old gumtree in
the bottom paddock, and no-
body knew how old that was.
He was as lean as a whip-
handle, and twice as springy.
If he had any affection left
in the work-pump he called his
“ticker,” he gave it all to his
horses. Certainly not to his
two sons, although they had
plenty for him. They worked
as hard as his horses, but he’d
been heard to say: “Any one
of me nags is worth both of
’em.”
He was the only one in the
district with horses. Everyone
else had cars and trucks. When-
ever he came into town, which
was once a month, he rode in a
sulky behind Old Maggie, a
bay mare supposed to be nearly
as old as he was. She was fat
and patient, and named after
his dead wife.
He always left the boys
behind on these trips. “Town’s
no place fer young ’uns.” The
“young ’uns” were 6ft.
bachelors in their thirties. We
used to see them occasionally,
at the Hospital Ball and at the
saleyaras, and when they
brought the wheat in. Uncle
Fred was always with them, and
hustled them home early. He’d
allow them one beer each at the
pub, and have one himself.
They were good-looking
blokes, and all the girls were
after them, partly because they
were good-looking, and partly
because Uncle Fred couldn’t
live for ever and his farm was
a good one. It was noticed
on his monthly visits to the
bank that the manager always
came out of his office to shake
hands and talk to him. No-
body ever saw Uncle Fred
going in to see the manager.
'"There's always somebody in
a town who thinks the
worst of people, and we had a
few like that. They used to
say the boys were only hanging
around waiting for the old
bloke to die, so they could get


his farm and his bank-balance.
But if you asked them why
they put-up with him, they’d
look surprised. “Who else is
there to look after him?” they’d
say.
If you asked Uncle Fred why
he kept them on the farm, he’d
look surprised. “What else c’n
a man do?” he’d say. “Poor
little blighters’ve got no
mother.”
There never was any argu-
ment when he said: “Time ter
be gettin’ along.” They’d just
grin at anybody who happened
to be around, say “So long,”
and climb into the sulky with
him.
Being big. blokes, they used
to sit one on each side of the
old man for balance. Old
Maggie would grunt and slowly
get up to her top speed
of six miles an houf, and we’d
watch their backs until they
disappeared over the railway,
behind the pepper-trees. They'd
never look back.
One time they persuaded
Uncle Fred to buy a utility-
truck. We never did find out
what arguments they used, but
he walked into the agent’s one
Saturday morning and bought
one.
“Just wrote out a cheque
for the full amount,” the agent
said, “as though it was only
thirty-bob.”
He sent the boys home with
Old Maggie, who wasn’t so
old then, and he had two more
beers to celebrate. We never
did find out where he learned
to drive, either, but the sergeant
thought he was good enough
for a licence.
Driving himself home, he
went smack into a tree. He
didn’t get hurt, but the ute did.
Uncle Fred left it there, and
walked home.
The next Saturday he told
the agent to go and collect it.
“Fix ’er up an’ sell ’er,” he said.
“Reckon I’ll lose a few quid on
’er, but yer gotta pay fer yer
experience.” f
“You won’t lose,” the
agent said. “The insurance'll
pay for the repairs. She'll be
as good as new.”
“Sell ’er,” Uncle Fred said.
“Should’ve known better.
Thing's no bloody good. Go
ter sleep an’ she climbs a tree.
Never ’ad that ’appen with Old
Maggie. Go ter sleep an’ she
takes yer home. Them thing’s
got no brains at all.”
The agent couldn’t persuade
him to Change his mind, and
the boys had to go back to
riding in the sulky with him.
If they were disappointed they
never showed it.
Christmas Eve Uncle Fred
“UNCLE FRED’S CHRISTMAS” is the first story by
John O Grady (“Nino Culotta”) since “They’re a
Weird Mob,” published at the end of last year, became
Australia’s most successful and most talked-of novel
of recent times. “The Bulletin” was first to challenge
the Italian authorship of this novel, but evidently Mr.
O’Grady bears no ill-will on that count; and it is
interesting to see that in exile in Samoa his thoughts go
from the city lights of “A Weird Mob” back into a
country township he knows quite as well as he knows
Sydney.
used to give them a cigar each
and allow them to have three
drinks. Old Maggie got a glass
of beer then, too, mixed with
water in the pub bucket.
They’d come to town before
lunch and eat steak and eggs
at the Greek’s. Then they’d
spend the afternoon looking at
the window-displays in the
stores and the newsagent’s,
before having their three drinks
and jogging home about sun-
down in a cloud of cigar-smoke.
Until last Christmas.
T AST Christmas Eve there was
• a big crowd in town, what
with all these New Australians
and the rain that started early in
the morning so no one could
do any work on the farms.
Uncle Fred reckoned it
reminded him of the time he
was down in Sydney.
Being such a little bloke, he
was having trouble getting
along, until one of the boys
started walking in front to clear
a track, with the other one
coming close behind the old
man to stop the mob from
squeezing in on him too soon.
They steered him to the store
where they used to buy the
cigars, and got him up to the
counter. Then they backed-
off into the crowd and ducked
out.
Uncle Fred spent a couple of
hours looking for them, getting
shirtier all the time, and using
his bony elbows on the New
Australians. But they were all
happy, and none of them
objected. He stuck his head
into the pub a couple of times,
but none of us told him we’d
seen them heading up towards
the hospital, although we were
all talking about it.
They showed-up eventually,
and everybody made room for
them in their usual corner, and
they bought themselves a
couple of beers. This had never
happened before, and we
asked them where they'd
got the money, but they
wouldn’t say. So we left them
alone, but we kept watching the
door, waiting for the fireworks
to start when Uncle Fred
turned-up.
In the meantime they were
whispering to the barmaid, and
she was having a bit of a giggle,
but we couldn’t hear what it
was all about. She spotted the
old man first, and whizzed their
glasses away, so by the time he
got to them they were standing
there innocently as though
they’d been waiting for hours.
“Where yer been, Pep? We
been lookin’ everywhere for
yer.”
“An' I been lookin’ every-
where fer you. What happened
to yer?”
“Nothin’ happened to us.
We were lookin’ at some rifles,
an’ when we turned around yer
were gone. Did yer get the
cigars?”
“Yeah, I got ’em.” He
handed them out, and they
said : “Thanks, Pop.”
“Three beers,” Uncle Fred
said to the barmaid. “Quick as
yer can. We gotta be gettin’
along.”
“Yeah,” they said. “Ut’s
gettin’ late. Yer better give Old
Maggie hers first, Pop. She
takes longer ter drink ut than
we do.”
“Give us Old Maggie’s
first,” Uncle Fred said.
The barmaid pulled a beer
and put it in the bucket and
passed it over the bar to him,
and he went out the back way.
We knew he’d fill it with water
from the tap out in the yard,
and pat Old Maggie’s nose and
taik to her for a minute until
she started nuzzling the bucket.
Then we found out what all
the whispering was about.
VV?hen Uncle Fred came back
and picked up his glass and
said, “Merry Christmas,” he
didn't know it was half-full of
gin. There wasn’t an eye in
the bar that wasn't watching
him as he took his first swig.
Except his two sons. They
o Continued on page 56)


The Horse-laugh
By VIN CLAYTON
Insistent pounding on the
weatherboard wall dragged
consciousness back from
the deep of heavy sleep:
“Bert. Are you right, Bert?
It’s six-o’clock.”
“Righto, Dad.”
Mumbling drowsily, Bert
forced himself to sit up. It
was fatal to dally, even for a
minute, and the Boss went
crook if he had to come all the
way down from the bakehouse
for a second reveille.
Six-o’clock —just four hours
since the first batch came out
and he had stumbled sleepily
from the bakehouse. Steady
drumming of rain on the iron
roof registered an awakening
perception as Bert reached for
trousers and boots. A nice
day to go out on an open cart!
The tin dish was easily filled
by reaching from the door to
the downpipe from the spout-
ing ; but the cold sluice, though
refreshing, stirred up resent-
ment, and he went across to
the stable in a sulk. The black
whinnied a welcome, and in
his abstraction Bert almost
forgot to give the chestnut a
wide berth. But he remembered
in time as the ears went back.
As the headrope was untied
the black made for a succulent
cabbage-leaf which had been
just out of reach, but Bert gave
a surly pull:
“Come on, Mick. Get over
there.”
Mick loved cabbage, and
essayed another nuzzling lunge
at the leaf ; but a sharp jerk
brought reluctant obedience.
Experience had taught the
futility of resisting humans.
They held the whip-hand,
literally.
Fingers were already numb-
ing with cold, and water ran
down inside Bert’s sleeves each
time he raised his arms; so
when the hames-strap refused
to go into its tight catch Ire
left it loose in exasperation.
TJert drove round to the
bakehouse, where he
backed the cart in for loading,
then threw a bag over Mick
and went in for breakfast. His
mother’s sympathetic duckings,
coupled with hot tea, porridge
and steak, restored some of his
normal cheeriness by the time
the cart was loaded.
“Eighty large, Bert,” said his
father ; then added, casually,
“There’s a few stale. You can
work them off at the butter-
factory.”
“Cripes, Dad, you’re hard,”
Bert grumbled. “The cockies
go dead maggoty out there.
They reckon they’re entitled to
fresh, only getting it twice a
week.”
“But it is fresh—first batch,
Bert.” And the baker chuckled
at the old trade joke.
“Tell ’em it’s first batch,” he
repeated as he turned into the
bakehouse, still grinning.
“It’s alf right for him,” Bert
grumbled to himself as he
'drove away. “I’d like to see
him explaining it to old
Hallamay.”
■piVE miles out of the town
horse and man had settled
down to sullen head-down
endurance of the stinging wind
and rain. Despite all precau-
tions, water worked inside his
oilskin collar and crawled in
irritating trickles down back
and chest.
“What a life,” Bert reflected.
“A man was mad to follow the
old man’s trade. Half the time
in a stuffy bakehouse, then
plodding around the bush in
all weathers.”
Pulling-up in answer to a
hail, he had to turn round, back
to the weather, before the
owner of the voice could be
distinguished.
It was black-bearded John
Dyer in shirt and dungarees,
apparently oblivious to condi-
tions.
“Good-day, Bert,” he said
genially. “Did you hear what
Smith’s bullocks brought in the
sale?”
“No. I dunno, Mr. Dyer.”
The sullen indifference of
Bert, who was usually a
copious, reliable reference on
local prices, stock-movements
and gossip, caused Dyer to look
up sharply.
“Oh, well —give us a large,
Bert.” He produced a folded
sugar-bag magically from some-
where.
Bert climbed back on the
cart and tipped a pint or so
of water from the seat.
Dyer stood watching him
and, as Bert picked-up the
slippery reins, called out:
“You don’t want to let a drop
of rain bother you, Bert. It’s
probably doing someone a bit
of good.”
Bert ignored • him, and
hunched head-down to the
weather again. Ten miles out
the Long Bridge was under
water and snags were piling-
up against fhe rail. Bert wanted
to hurry through the rushing
water, but Mick had been
caught with loose planks before,
and not even a cut with the
whip could alter the delibera-
tion with which lie picked his
steps. Bert regretted that hasty
whip-lash, for the glossy black
and he were good mates ; but
man’s animals and wives have
ever borne the punishments for
circumstances.
There were few people at the
butter-factory, and Bert filled
the available bags hastily. But
fate was against him in the
shape of old Hallamay, who
arrived in time to inspect the
loaf in his bag. The discussion
was acrimonious in the extreme
and concluded with a fresh
loaf being handed over for the
now rain-sodden “first batch,”
which Hallamay had been
The Hollidays
By Middy
“We are now about to cross the Blacksoil Plains. Now, if any of you Would care to stretch your legs—
this could be your last opportunity."


1
ON YOUR CHOICE OF
BY THE FINEST, FASTEST AIRLINERS
around the world
••• <
m
is*
■
Sc
a
Ul
nt
H I
Wherever your destination, fly by
BOAC . . . the airline whose con-
venient, comprehensive route network
covers the globe ! BOAC offers you
the finest value in air travel the whole
wide world over— to 51 countries on
all 6 continents.
On all these world-wide routes, BOAC
takes great pride in its reputation for
passenger service. You fly by the
ALL OVER THE WORLD
finest, fastest airliners in service to-day
. . . enjoy that particular blend of com-
fort, good food and personal attention
which makes experienced air travellers
unhesitatingly choose BOAC. Ask now
for full details of BOAC’s world-wide
routes and de-Luxe, First Class, Tourist
and Economy Class services !
Remember, it costs no more to fly by
BOAC.
TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU
Information and bookings from all leading Travel Agents,
Qantas Empire Ainvays Limited (BOAC General Agents for Australia ).
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL, S.A.A. AND C.A.A.
A97/AU
waving about as punctuation to
his remarks.
“Pity some other baker
wouldn't come out this way,”
he ended. “It’d bring you
blokes to your senses.”
“Don't worry,” said Bert
bitterly. “Nobody else’d be
mad enough to take this round.
We only do it for charity.”
round the hill the rain
had stopped, but the wind
seemed keener, as Sid Parron
hailed him at the turn-off:
“ 'Day, Bert. Cow of a day.
The creek bridge is down, but
Toil can get around the top
paddock. I’m goin’ up to a
fencing job at Coyle's.”
“Thanks, Sid. Hooray.”
At Parron’s, morning-tea and
blazing fire were waiting. These,
with the attentions of Annie
Parron, shy in manner but bold
of eye, restored his confidence,
and he decided to pick a track
through the paddocks to
Adams’s, whom he had been
prepared to abandon, bread-
less, in his previous mood.
Mick was found gazing over
the kitchen-garden fence at a
patch of cabbages.
“Ha. Wouldn’t you like to
get amongst those beauties?”
hailed Bert jocularly. But
Mick was not fortified with
morning-tea and rolled a
reproachful eye as he reluc-
tantly moved away.
The Parrons’ directions were
easy to follow, but hadn’t in-
cluded a warning about a patch
of flood-water covering 10
acres or so at the bottom end
of Adams’s place. Judging by
the fences, Bert concluded, he
could get through without water
entering the cart, and drove
Mick boldly to it.
Halfway across, with the
water just up to the bottom of
the cart, Mick stopped.
“Come on, there! Get-up,
Mick,” said Bert impatiently.
Mick twitched his ears.
“I’ll make you move,”
growled Bert, not liking the
helpless feeling perched up
over that waste of muddy
water ; and he gave the horse
a sharp cut with his whip.
“Well have it your own
Way. I’ve warned you,” said
Mick in horse-language with
his ears ; then took two paces
forward and stopped again.
Those two paces released the
loose hames-strap; up went
the shafts; and Bert did an
ungraceful one - and -a - half
backwards.
Mick looked round at the
spluttering, dripping figure of
the man who had deprived him
of that luscious cabbage-leaf,
and raising his head gave a
long, loud, raucous neigh.


A Government with a Delicate Skin
Pins, Needles and Smears
IN the controversy raised by Mrs.
Melville’s charges against the N.S.W.
police-force no feature has been
more disturbing than the violent and
intemperate reaction of Premier Cahill
and his colleagues.
It is natural that Ministers should feel
a loyalty towards the officers of their
departments, just as they are entitled to
expect loyalty from them. But a Minis-
ter’s first duty is not to his department
and its personnel, but to the public whose
interests he and they are supposed to
serve.
The reactions of Cahill and Co., how-
ever, do not give the impression of being
inspired merely by loyalty to their staff.
There is little of righteous indignation in
their response ; it is more of a reflex
action, akin to the yelp a man might give
when someone unexpectedly sticks a pin
in the seat of his pants.
Being a lady 'of mature years and
experience, Mrs. Melville is unlikely to
go round sticking pins into Ministerial
seats just for the fun of seeing them
jump. She is a lifelong member of the
Labor party, and in her speech in the
Legislative Council she made it clear that
she was not attacking the Government or
the Commissioner of Police, but merely
a few members of the police-force who,
she felt, were ruining its good name.
A full inquiry, she maintained, would
restore confidence in the police as a body.
This didn’t prevent the Ministers from
jumping. They jumped so spontaneously
and so desperately that one could be
pardoned for suspecting that Mrs. M.
used, not a pin but an outsize darning-
needle.
Reflex Action
HTHE truth is that this Ministerial habit
■*- of jumping has become almost a
reflex action. It isn’t a new phenomenon ;
it has been in evidence for years.
It seems to be compounded of
three main ingredients. First and
foremost is the conviction that no Cahill
Minister (or any of his subordinates)
can possibly be wrong. Secondly, there’s
the tradition that even if he is wrong he
mustn't admit it. Thirdly, there mustn’t
be any outside investigation lest, despite
the Minister’s knowledge of his own
infallibility, an unsympathetic commis-
sioner may somehow decide he was
wrong.
In this frame of mind the Government
refuses to regard any criticism at all as
well founded or deserving of investiga-
tion. Under the Cahill Administration
a department can do no wrong, and it
is little short of a criminal offence to
suggest otherwise. If the Opposition
criticises an action or reports a com-
plaint it is trying to score politically or
is acting as a stooge for Big Business or
the press.
If the press raises embarrassing ques-
tions it is either trying to smear the
Government or raking-up sensational
stories in order to increase circulation.
Unfortunately the Sydney daily press
does little to disprove this charge
plenty to give color to it. are
fed with so much sensatfon that they
find it hard to a genuine case
when they jcad it. Moreover, on a
couple gf Occasions when an inquiry has
been granted after press campaigns, the
papers seem to have been sold a pup.
To suggest that that may well be the
reason the Government departed from
its usual practice and granted inquiries
would, of course, be rather smeary. The
smear charge is the Labor politician’s
favorite defence.
Gagging the Press
/"'ahill even used it in the first instance
in the Doyle-Arthur case. His pre-
decessor used it consistently, and in the
most extravagant terms. He even made
it an excuse for blatantly gagging
political comment in the press for three
days before an election. That gag, while
illustrating N.S.W. Labor’s sensitiveness
to criticism and its tendency to make
every pinprick a dagger-thrust, was
merely a foretaste of Cahill’s Press Gag
Act, which earned his Government
notoriety throughout the English-speak-
ing world.
Officially styled the Sydney City
Council (Disclosure of Allegations) Act,
this monument to the touch-us-not
philosophy of the Cahill Government was
fragrant with the aroma of stale-fruit
barrows and declared that any editor
who published charges against the Sydney
City Council was liable to be served
with a Supreme Court order requiring
him to name his informant or incur
heavy penalties. It was retrospective and,
as every paper in Sydney had already
published enough charges to fill several
volumes of political memoirs, it would
have been more properly named the
Suppression of Allegations Act.
Its plain purpose was to suppress
criticism of the Labor-controlled Sydney
City Council until the elections were over.
The press had been demanding a royal
commission, but Cahill and Co. stead-
fastly refused this, although their own
party executive had spoken of guarding
against corruption on the council and
of “putting a cleaner” through it. The
Labor party preferred to use its own
brand of cleaner, at the same time pro-
testing that none was needed and that
anyone who hinted otherwise was
deliberately smearing public-spirited men.
This same touchiness over criticism and
the assumption that a Labor Government
can’t make a mistake, even by deputy,
permeates all Cahill Government think-
ing. It can be noted in the controversy
over the site and form of a second medi-
cal school. For reasons of its own the
Government wants to establish this at
the N.S.W. University of Technology.
To support Its case it grasps a passing
reference in the Murray Report and
"fises it as a definite recommendation to
reinforce the finding of its own hand-
picked committee. Yet the opinions of
the medical profession, which should
have been the first to be consulted in
the matter, are dismissed offhandedly as
though of no value or significance. And,
after all, what knowledge of the subject
could the B.M.A. have that could pos-
sibly compete with the combined wisdom
of Ministers who have been in office
for 17 years without admitting a single
mistake?
Local-government
Another field in which the Cahill
Government is never wrong is local-
government. In the matter of amalgama-
tion of shires and municipalities it has
been proved right time and time again.
Shire-councillors and others claiming
local knowledge have often disputed
proposals approved by the Minister and
his departmental officers, but always
when the matter has been referred to an
impartial commissioner the Minister’s
plan has been declared the right and
proper one. The fact that the impartial
commissioner is invariably an officer of
the department in no way affects his
impartiality. The Minister says so, and
to suggest otherwise would be very
smearish.
Occasionally, of course, the Minister’s
hands are tied—as in the case of the two
Canterbury aldermen who are insisting
on retaining their seats on the council
although they have been convicted of
accepting bribes. The Minister says he
cannot remove them from the council,
because there is no provision in the Local
Government Act for so doing.
This is very embarrassing for the
Minister. No doubt if he had foreseen
such a situation he would have had the
Act amended to provide for it, just as
his predecessor amended it in order to
smooth the way for amalgamations.
But how could he have foreseen it?
After all, he only had Leichhardt, Banks-
town and the Sydney City Council as
precedents, and one can’t rush into these
things. The Minister’s punctiliousness
in observing the provisions of the Act
(as he reads it) is illustrated by the fact
that the Mitchell Region inquiry is at
present being conducted under the
familiar system of a single departmental
commissioner when, by amending the
Act, Mr. Renshaw could have applied
his own suggestion of a three-man com-
mission.
Possibly he avoided this because he
felt the Opposition, which supports the
Shires’ Association plan for a four-man
commission with a District Court judge
as chairman, might take the opportunity
of smearing the Government.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Sydney Form
In winning his first race of
the season (Tulloch wasn’t there
to be in his way) Prince Darius
brought stake-winnings to close
on £25,000. He had little to
beat in Saturday’s Chelmsford
Stakes at Randwick, and was
ridden by Tulloch’s usual pilot,
G. Moore, but some lucky
punters secured evens about
him. He has now had 28
starts for nine wins, 11
seconds and five thirds, and
other riders who have won on
him have been R. Selkrig, W.
Cook, A. Ward, R. Williams
and A. Mulley.
Though burdened with 9.5
in the Three-and-four-year-
old Handicap at Randwick,
Caesar raced smartly over the
final stages, impressively draw-
ing attention to his prospects
in the spring handicaps. A
member of the big T. J. Smith
team, he has 7.13 in the Epsom.
It was Caesar’s first win since
last February—in fact, he had
been last at his previous outing.
Other Randwick winners to
improve sharply on their prior
start included On Line, Huntly,
Amanullah and Dantesque.
Amanullah beat a number of
Epsom candidates in the Tram-
way Handicap, which is often
taken as an Epsom pointer.
He carried 7.12, and has lib.
less in the Randwick mile.
• • • •
New Zealand-bred Comte
De Paris was an outsider for
his good second to Caesar, but
on his display he won’t be at
long odds next time out in a
similar type of race. The colt,
trained by New Zealander
H. N. Wiggins for Mrs. I.
Richter, is by Gold Nib (imp.)
from Sunny’s Last by Orelio
from Sunny Song by Hunting
Song (imp.). Sunny’s Last is a
half-sister to Duvach, the dam
of Melbourne Cup winner
Hiraji. Comte De Paris is
also closely related to Sydney
Cup winner Gold Scheme. In
New Zealand Comte De Paris
won in two-year-old company
at Ellerslie last December,
coming from the rear of the
field.
• • • •
Flash Gem, winner of the
Spring Handicap at Randwick,
was well placed at the weights
with 7.12, or 121 b. above the
limit. A few months ago he
won the Wagga Cup over the
same distance (If mile) with
9.3, and in several prior wins
had carried more than Bst.
Flash Gem is not engaged in
the Metropolitan, but he beat
a number of horses weighted
for that event, and is himself
engaged in next Saturday’s
Newcastle Cup, an event which
his trainer, Jack Green, has
already won twice.
One of the best things
beaten at Randwick was
Yendor in the High weight
Handicap. Slowly away, he
was one of the last two of 18
starters as the field rounded the
home-turn. He then put in a
powerful finish wide out, and
just failed to beat Huntly, who
was well ahead of him about
a furlong-and-a-half from the
winning-line. Huntly improved
sharply on his prior run, when
13th of 17 starters in Kahiba’s
Warwick Farm Welter, at no
stage being dangerous. How-
ever, he had galloped well on
the track, and, though he had
started at 33 to 1 at the Farm,
he was equal second-favorite
with Yendor at Randwick.
The favorite, Forest Stream,
lost his winning chance in a
barrier mix-up. He was no
further back than Yendor on
the home-turn, but was in
further trouble in the final
furlong.
• • • •
On Line, winner of the
Randwick Novice (If mile), is
on the limit (7st.) in the
Metropolitan ; he had 8.5 on
Saturday. Bred to stay the
Metrop. distance (13 furlongs),
he’s a five-year-old gelding by
Chateau Roussel (imp.) from
an imported mare, Straight
Putt, by Straight Deal from
Joyce W by Fairway. Joyce
W won races in England at up
to If mile, including the York-
shire Oaks.
• • • •
Trained by T. J. Smith and
winner of the Warwick Farm
midweek Penshurst Handicap
for three-year-olds, Eastern
Song is bred to stay and is
related to several top gallopers
of earlier years that had ability
over long distances. The list
includes Spiral (N.Z. St. Leger),
Royal Radiant (Williamstown
Cup, If mile, and the V.R.C.
Handicap, If mile), and Carey
(third in the Melbourne Cup to
Russia). Eastern Song is by
Marco Polo II (imp.) from
Sona by Ringmaster (imp).
Marco Polo won at two miles
in England.
Both divisions of the War-
wick Farm Panania Stakes were
won by progeny of the
American sire Flying Missel,
whose best to date is Man of
Iron. Spear, winner of the first
Panania, is from Ajixa, a
winner of the A.J.C. Gimcrack
Stakes; Mighty Missel, easy
winner of the second division,
is from Lady Pirouette, who
won a Champagne Stakes.
Eudare, winner of half-a-
dozen races, showed stamina in
two of his successes last
autumn. Both were mile
events at Randwick, one on
a firm track, the other in heavy
going. After those two wins
Eudare was put away, and at
his third outing after a spell he
spreadeagled the field in the
Warwick Farm midweek
Welter Mile. Some weeks ago
the stable let the public know
it was concentrating on the
Melbourne Cup. The company
he beat at the Farm was only
moderate, but he gave
opponents a long start, was
last for home, and covered
more ground than any other
runner. He has 7.7 in the Mel-
bourne Cup, 7.5 in the Caul-
field Cup, and 7.7 in the
Metrop.
• • • •
Entries for next Saturday’s
Rosehill Guineas (£2205; If
mile) include top-class last-
start Melbourne winner Sir
Blink and Espalier from Bris-
bane. Espalier ran a good race
at Randwick on Saturday when
fifth to Caesar.
• • • ,#
Sir Blink is moving along
well at Randwick, and his party
believe he will be hard to beat
in both the Guineas and the
A.J.C. Derby. He has an
excellent winning-record, his
latest win being in the Heather-
lie Handicap (If mile) against
all ages at Caulfield last Satur-
day week.
• • • •
Bought at the New Zea-
land yearling-sales in January,
1957, for 475gn5., Sir Blink
was bred by I. R. Cole, of
Urenui, and is by Blue Coral
(imp.) from Inky by'Sir Beau II
from Haughty by Inflation.
He is closely related to Rising
Fast, and other stayers in his
CHARLIE MACARTNEY taking the field against
North of England at Edghaston, Birmingham, in June,
1926, with Warren Bardsley on his left and Jack
Gregory closest of the others.


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week.
bloodlines include Balloch-
myle, Beaupartir, Lambourn
(Wellington Cup, 2 miles), and
Saul (Australian Cup). Inky
won six races at up to 11
furlongs. Silver Phantom
(A.J.C. Epsom) also figures in
Sir Blink’s pedigree. His sire,
Blue Coral (by Blue Peter),
won races at up to two miles
in England. Randwick trainer
Dick Roden gave 2300gns. for
Sir Blink’s half-brother at the
New Zealand sales last January.
Sydney’s main hopes in the
Guineas should be Prince
Kerdieil, Bold Pilot, Valerius,
and Eastern Song.
* * *
At Flemington
Racing at Flemington last
Saturday gave some valuable
pointers to the big spring
events, but it might pay to
remember that the going was
very heavy.
Lord Gavin went out
favorite in the 10-furlongs
w.-f.-a. Craiglee Stakes, mainly
because he was the only proved
w.-f.-a. performer in the field
of seven ; but he had shown
before that he is hopeless on
a heavy track, and he ran a
distant fifth. On the other
hand, the winner, White Hills,
improves a stone in heavy con-
ditions.
Now that he has won at
w.f.a. with 9.4, White Hills
appears attractively weighted
for the Cups. He has 7.6 at
Caulfield, 7.7 in the Melbourne
Cup. A factor that might
count against him in such races
as the Cups is that he is field-
shy, and won’t do his best if
he’s buffeted. The small field
in the Craiglee suited him
perfectly.
Last summer Master Rane
had a winning sequence of six
races straight. Despite that
record, and the fact that his
two starts since a long spell
had been promising runs in
open company, the Sans Tache
colt started at the outside odds
of 20 to 1 in the 10-furlongs
Burleigh Handicap at Fleming-
ton ; racegoers shied away
from the handsome chestnut
because of his weight, 9.7, and
his outside barrier position.
It will be a long time before
Master Rane again starts at
such odds in three-year-old
company. The colt went to the
front at the half-mile and
defied all attempts by his
lighter-weighted rivals to run
him down. He has been
scratched from the A.J.C.
Derby, but his programme is
aimed at the Victorian classic.
Fred Hoysted, for all his suc-
cess, has never prepared a
Derby winner. He has his
chance with. Master Rane.
Twelve months ago track-
watchers at Caulfield noted
down the name Render, when
that gelding won a race-
conditions trial in the fastest
time in the series of trials run
that day. They had to wait a
long time to cash-in on their
special knowledge. Trainer
Ken Hilton decided the gelding
needed time to develop, and it
was not until the First Exford
Handicap down the straight
six at Flemington last Saturday
that Render had his first start.
He rewarded Hilton for his
patience by bolting in by three
lengths from his stablemate,
the /'well-performed Sumner.
Render and Sumner are two
more of the many successful
youngsters bought by owner
W. R. Kemball in New
Zealand. The winner is by
Count Rendered, Sumner by
Summertime. Progeny of both
sires have done remarkably
well in Melbourne.
There is no doubt that the
six-year-old Remarc mare,
Dawdie, from Westralia, is a
good-class stayer, and trainer
Abe Jordan has come across
with her to try to win the Caul-
field Cup for Perth owner J. G.
Money. Dawdie showed that
she wilf easily get the ni'le-
and-a-half of the Cup with a
brilliant finish to win the
second heat of the 10-furlongs
Kingsford Highweight. Under
the highweight conditions she
carried 9.3. She has 8.2 in the
Caulfield. Dawdie has a great
record in her home State. She
won the Oaks and St. Leger,
and set a State record for a
mile-and-a-half when she won
the Easter Cup this year in
2.30 j. Former Melbourne
jockey C. McLauchlan, long
resident in the West, rode the
mare on Saturday, and told
pressmen that she was quite
up to Cup class. He may be
rfght.
• • • •
This time last year many
racegoers were seeing Top
Fred as a likely Caulfield Cup
winner, but the event subse-
quently proved that he can’t
get a distance. The Frederick
John gelding, however, cer-
tainly is a good sprinter. He
won down the straight six at
Flemington again last Satur-
day, in the Northcote Handi-
cap. He has been a great
money-spinner for the Smerdon
family at Ballarat—trained by
Arthur Smerdon for owner H.
Smerdon. They will not repeat
last year’s mistake of trying
to make Top Fred run a dist-
ance. If he trains on, his
carnival objective will be the
mile Cantala Stakes on Derby
Day.
For the new crop of Mel-
bourne-trained youngsters, the
first two-year-old trials under
simulated racing conditions
were held at Caulfield last
week. It is not always the
winners of these events in
which there is no penalty for
restraining a horse which
create the best impression.
Most watchers noted as an
early winner the Hoysted-
trained Worthing, an Empy-
rean-Tres Chic black colt.
Worthing was hard-held to run
second in his heat. The 4500
gns. Star Kingdom Canvas
Back colt (a full brother to
Kingster), trained by Peter
Muschialli, created a lot of
interest; he, too, ran second in
his heat. Fastest time in the 12
events was set by Sir Lorrient,
who ran the four furlongs in
49.3-10. He is by Sir Edward
from Lorrient.
* * *
Trots
As Delm, driven by Alf
Phillis at Harold Park last
Friday night, was passing the
winning-post with a lap to go
he staggered and fell, pinning
Phillis, who had catapulted
from the gig. Delm then rolled
off Phillis, and horse and driver
lay unconscious side by side.
Suffering severe concussion,
Phillis was hurried to hospi-
tal, but at time of writing was
reported to be doing well.
The first and last finished
first and second in the Trotters
Handicap. Kyogle Wirra, the
only horse on scratch, won by
25 lengths from Excellenza,
with Condor (48yds.) a close
third. Excellenza started from
the hard mark of 120yds. be-
hind, but was helped by most
of the other trotters breaking
at some part of the race.
Atomic Silver, who had had
sterling wins at Parkes and
Peak Hill recently, started a
hot favorite at 7 to 4 on in
the Second Qualifying Stakes.
Racing to the lead in the last
lap after lying third at the
“bell,” he went on to win com-
fortably by five lengths.
Bondi John landed the
Harold Park Handicap by
three-quarters of a length from
Fire Chief, who finished very
fast after being pocketed in
the final lap. Champion mare
Sibelia, having her first run
at headquarters this season,
started from the difficult mark
of 60yds. behind. At the rear
of the field until the last lap,
she was there pulled to the
outside and with an amazing
burst finished a close fourth.
Private dockers are reported
to have timed Sibelia to have
run the final half-mile in 1
min. 1 sec.! Bondi John needs
one more win to bring him
down to the 2.14 class and
thereby eligible for next
month’s £SOOO Spring Cup.
* * *
Cricket's "Governor-
General"
C. G. Macartney (passed on
in Sydney at 72) was one of
the greatest batsmen Australia
has produced—to be ranked
with such as Bradman,
Trumper and Ponsford. In
fact, some of his admirers claimed
he was “better than Trumper” —
though the “Governor-General”
himself would never have that.
Possibly Macartney’s most famous
innings was his 151 in the third
Test at Leeds in 4926, when, after
Bardsley had gone od Tate’s first
ball and he himself had been
dropped in slips off Tate’s fifth
ball, he hit a sparkling century
beiore lunch. Another brilliant
knock was his 345 against Notts., in
1921, still the highest score by an
Australian in England.
He was, too, a good left-arm
spin-bowler, particularly in his
younger days, and in the Leeds
Test of 1909 took 7-58 and 4-27.
Modest, the complete gentleman,
he lived for many years in a house
at Chatswood fSydney) named The
Wicket. As a measure of his
quality as a cricketer, one can’t go
past Sir Donald’s words, that
Macartney was his boyhood hero.
* * *
Russell Mockridge, killed in
an accident in Melbourne at
the start of the Gippsland Tour
on Saturday, had dominated
Australian road and track cycling
since turning professional. At the
1952 Olympic Games "Mocka” won
two gold-medals, for the 1000-metres
time-trial and, with Lionel Cox,
for the 2000-metres tandem. In
1956 he set a race-record fastest


start the dauriaht!
ill
m
■m
1F&
EHOE r
1 s cls^a
time for the famous Warrnambool-
Melbourne race, and in 1957 again
set fastest time. He won the Tour
of Tasmania last year, and was
second this year (a week or so ago).
He won the Australian professional
road-cycling title for the past three
years—a record no other rider has
achieved.
* * *
“Very!”: Ashley Cooper’s
winning of the U.S. singles
tennis-title gives him. three of
the major singles-titles this year
—Wimbledon, the Australian
and the American. He missed
the “grand slam” (i.e., plus the
French title) when he went
down to Ayala in a semi-final
after winning the first two
sets, Ayala in turn being
beaten in the final by Merv
Rose. In 1956 Hoad also won
three of the four, but was
beaten by Rosewall in the U.S.
final. Only man to win the
four titles in the one year was
American Donald Budge, in
1938.
* * *
Collingwood and North met
three times this year. North
won the first game by three
points 9.8-7.17 or, rather,
Collingwood lost it, for at the
end, with the 'wind behind,
’Wood was doing everything
but kick goals. Second time, in
the last home-and-home game,
North won again, well and
truly this time: 14.17-12.16.
On Saturday, in the V.F.L. pre-
liminary-final, North, with a
stronger goal-to-goal line, a
more stabilised team and play-
ing. after a week’s rest, was
tipped to win again ; but this
time it was ’Wood’s day all
through, 14.12-10.16. Only in
the last quarter did North get
a bit of a spurt on, after ’Wood
had a 39-point lead at three-
quarter-time. All ’Wood’s posi-
tional changes paid-off. Best
Magpies were Gabelich, Serong,
Sullivan, Reeves and new
youthful centreman Henderson.
A crowd of 77,656 watched.
Melbourne and Collingwood,
which in recent years also
played-off in 1955 and 1956,
do so again this Saturday.
“Rossby”: Fitzroy has
certainly had some'’close games
this year (B. 3/9/’SB), but it
also won and lost a few matches
by wide margins. There was
the 120-point win over North
in the first round, 57- and 64-
point wins over Richmond, 56-
point defeat of Footscray, 48-
point win over Collingwood
and 41-point defeat of Mel-
bourne. Two resounding de-
feats were a 51-point loss to
Essendon, and ’Scray’s un-
expected 90-point victory. On
the whole, Fitzroy, under new
coach Len Smith’s expert
tuition, did .very well in 1958.
“Solomon”: Lowest team on
the Westralian League-football
ladder, Claremont is proud of
its thirds team, which, at time
of writing, is on top and is
crammed with potential cham-
pions. Next year and the one
after are the years Claremont
is now interested in—it reckons
a League premiership is there
for the taking. Still, othet clubs
may have other ideas. One of
the young stars is big goalsneak
Wayne Harvey, with bags of
11 goals, 9,8, 6, 5 (most of
these goals kicked without a
behind) and 9.1. Then there
“If’s a bay .”
is big . ruckman John Deth-
ridge palming brilliantly to a
clever trio of and a
strong ruck-rover. John is
good enough now for League,
but his parents asked that he
be kept in junior football for
another yedr.
* # *
In- Sydney Rugby Union’s
second semi-final Manly
defeated Gordon 11-6, after
leading 5-0 at half-time and
going to 11-0. Gordon actually
scored two tries to Manly’s
one, but both were scored after
Manly’s five-eighth Diett had
been injured and become a
“passenger.” This Saturday
Gordon confronts St. George,
winner to play-off with Manly
....In N.Z. the touring
Wallabies were defeated 12-6
by Manawatu last Wednesday
and, on Saturday, had an excit-
ing 14-all draw with Waikato.
* * *
Sydney Rugby League’s 1958
premiership was won for the
third successive year by St.
George, which on Saturday,
before a record club-game
crowd of 63,282, defeated West
20-9 —four tries to one. It
was a great game, fast and
exciting. St. George thus
reversed West’s surprise 34-10
win in the second semi-final.
St. George appeared in the
grand-final in all three grades,
but won only .the firsts. Before
St. George’s run, South Sydney
had won the previous three
premierships (’53, ’54 and ’55).
“Selja”: In B. 27/8/’5B I
wrote of St. George (Sydney)
Rugby League forward Harry
Bath setting a new club points-
scoring record. With his fourth
goal against Balmain in the
final, Bath reached 104' goals
for the season, to pass the
previous best- for a Sydney
season, Tom Kirk’s 103 goals
kicked for Newtown in 1943.
Bath’s four goals in Saturday’s
grand-final took his tally to
108, and his total points on to
225, which just beat the previ-
ous post-war best of 223 points,
by Ron Rowles, of Manly, in
1954. The all-time Sydney
points-scoring record is the one
and only Dave Brown’s 244
points for East ia J 935. Bath,
incidentally, has played four
years in Sydney League-foot-
ball (1946 and 1947 with Bal-
main, and the last two years
with St. George) and has been
in the winning premiership
team every time.
* * *
“Mugga Way”: A 15-year-
old German, Lutz Springer,
. from Westphalia, has flown to
the U.S. for a fortnight to
represent the Federal Republic
in the Soap Box (Billycart)
World Championship at Akron,
Ohio. He is the only European
contestant. Why didn’t Aus-
tralia have an entry in this
classic?
* * *
“Ailsey”: ’ Basketball is
played in Australia more by
women than men,- but the men
are taking it up. Lithgow
(N.S.W-.) males are keen.
There is a huge Civic Ballroom
in Lithgow with a fast floor,
and teams train there twice a
week. They struck such form
in June that a Lithgow team
won the N.S.W. championship
title in Sydney. Most of the
basketballers are Rugby
League footballers, who find
that the American, game keeps
them in good condition during
the summer.
* * *
Last week’s boxing: At
Melbourne Stadium on Friday
night South African welter
Johnny Van Rensburg out-
pointed the game Australian
lightweight champion Max
Carlos,’ in what Van Rensburg
described as “one of his
toughest fights.” On Monday
night, at Sydney Stadium,
American negro welterweight
A 1 Williams easily outpointed
promising Billy Stanley in a
return fight—on August 11
Stanley had won a disputed
points decision over Williams.
At , Birmingham (Eng.), West
Indian Yolande Pompey k.o.’d
in the second round British
light-heavy champion Ran-
dolph Turpin. It was not the
same Turpin who in London
on July 10, 1951, had taken
the world’s .middleweight title
off Sugar Ray Robinson —
Robinson, of course, won it
back again within a few
months.


PAINT BARGAINS
3 Gallon Drums at 59/6 per
Drum. Olive Green Gloss Paint
(Lead & Oil Base). Manufac-
tured by 1.C.1. of England.
F.O.R. MELBOURNE
SEGALS,
48 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
FRIENDSHIP OR
MATRIMONY?
We have the right partner for you.
Hundreds lonely people to choose from,
everywhere, all ages, nationalities, occu-
pations, seeking Romance. Write for
FREE information brochure No. Y 45.
State age, .Sex, address, etc. We reply
in plain scaled envelope. Confidential,
no. obligation.
MILTON’S, Box 2871, G.r.0., Sydney.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy The Turn of the Tide,
by Bryant; Morshead’s Africart
Trilogy; The Great Australian
Loneliness, by E. .Hill; and Rolf
Boldrewood’s Robbery Under Arms.
—6745.
Information Sought
(1) Recipe for a home-brewed
cold-water beer ? (2) Where could
I find out about buying an Irish
water-spaniel ?
(1) Cold-water beers belpng to
the ginger-beer type; boiling brings
out the flavor of the ingredients.
The following is a simple and satis-
factory recipe. Assemble sqts. water
and 6oz. dried hops; boil together
gently for 3hrs., strain, and add
sqts. water and 4oz. bruised whole-
ginger. Boil a little longer, strain,
add 41b. sugar, and when milk-
warm add lpt. yeast. Leave it to
ferment; in two days or so it should
be ready for bottling.
(2) Canine Corporation of Aus-
tralia, Rawson Chambers, Rawson
Place, Sydney; Crufts Australasia,
580 Bourke Street, Sydney; Puppy
Palace, 6a Burwood Road, Bur-
wood, N.S.W. Before buying, find
out how the quarantine-regulations
stand in respect to imported animals.
Arrange for vet. inspection.
• * * *
How is casein manufactured ?
Skim-milk is heated continuously,
by hot-water pipes, to 110°F.
Hydrochloric acid is diluted with
four parts of water and pumped
at the required rate, determined
periodically by titration, into a
small stoneware cylinder containing
baffles and serving as a mixer.
Here it meets the thin stream of
warm milk, mixes with it instantly
and precipitates the casein curd.
Then it flows through a stoneware
baffle-box to the drainiftg-conveyer,
which is an inclined trough carry-
ing a steel-ribbon type screw-
flight. The whey gravitates towards
the discharge, while the curd is
moved upwards by the rotating*
screw and is finally ejected to the
curd-breaker at the top encj of the
conveyer. In the curd-breaker the
curd is further broken-down and
pushed through a perforated plate
into the washing-conveyer, where it
is separated from ash and free-
acidity by counter-current washing.
The washed curd is passed into a
continuous two-roll power-press,
after which it is dried.
* * * •
Approximate speeds of- bee,
pigeon, hawk and swift ? Any
information on speeds of birds
and fish ?
A bee can travel at 3.7 metres
per second, unladen; 2.5 metres per
second laden with pollen. Pigeons
can do 80 m.p.h., hawks (falcons)
100 m.p.h. and swifts 75 m.p.h.
Where it has been possible to clock
the birds over substantial distances
the actual speed has been found
to be less than half these extreme
estimates.
Rate at which a bird travels
depends on many factors —wind-
currents, whether it’s cruising in
search of food, migrating or being
chased by an enemy. Pigeons may
maintain a speed of 80 m.p.h. for
many miles, but over long distances
average only 60; during short bursts
they might even hit a speed of
100 m.p.h. Swifts may be swifter
than pigeons over long distances,
“ Batten-down the hatches !”
whilst falcons can accelerate to
about 115 m.p.h. when chasing
other birds.
No estimates have been made
as to the speed of fishes, but it’s
doubtful if even- the fastest fish can
exceed 50 m.p.h. for the equivalent
in knots). *
*** * '
Rules for conducting' a debate?
Opened by the first affirmative
speaker, followed by the first nega-
tive speaker, and so on until six
speakers have finished their con-
structive speeches. These are fol-
lowed by six speeches intended to
destroy the arguments presented by
opponents in their constructive
speeches. Occasionally the last
speaker for each side is allowed
extra time to sum-up his case.
The order of speakers in the second
round (rebuttal) is reversed, the
negative team speaking first. The
captain may change the order of
speakers in rebuttal if the chairman
is informed.
• * * *
Details of the cobalt-bullet treat-
ment for cobalt-deficient sheep ?
The C.5.1.R.0. cobalt-bullets are
widely used to correct cobalt-
deficiency in sheep and to provide
protection against phalaris staggers.
These bullets lodge in the paunch
of the sheep and provide enough'
cobalt to meet the animal’s require-
ments. Research by the C.5.1.R.0.
has shown that cobalt-bullets given
to young lambs can become ineffec-
tive, owing to the build-up of a
surface-coating of calcium-phos-
phate. This coating is rare in adult
sheep, occurring more commonly in
young lambs.
Cobalt-bullets in lambs about
four weeks old may become coated
in three or four weeks, and this
coating may form on an appreciable
proportion of bullets given to lambs
even three or four months old. So
the treatment given to suckling-
lambs, either to offset cobalt-
deficiency or to protect them against
phalaris staggers, can only be relied
on for a few weeks. The alterna-
tive is to provide cobalt supplements
by weekly drenching throughout
the potentially toxic period. As the
risk and incidence of phalaris
staggers varies amongst properties,
each owner must decide the method
of usfe on his particular property.
In many cases it would be unwise
to rely on cobalt-bullets for
protection.
Dosing of very young lambs with
cobalt-bullets can, in untrained
hands, endanger the life of the
animal through possible mechanical
damage to the pharynx. Bullets can
be given safely by experienced
operators to lambs four weeks old;
but under practical conditions, when
the age of the individuals in a flock
is not known, it may be preferable
not to dose lambs until the average
age is eight weeks. Any further
points may be obtained from field-
extension officers of State Depart-
ments of Agriculture.
* * * *
What is the value of the 'mulga-
tree ? Where is it found ?
It occurs in the scrubs of western
N.S.W. and south-west Queensland,
extending through the interior of
S.A. -to W.A. In Central and far-
inland Australia it grows on the
sandhills, sandy plains and stony
hills. The leaves are used for fodder
during drought, and have been
known to keep cattle and sheep
alive for three years during which
no rain had fallen. The tree is
now' rare in some districts 'where
it. was once plentiful, chiefly because
of severe lopping and damage by
stock. It is illegal to cut-down a
imilga-tree; even dead wood on the
ground must not be removed.
How to tell if a shotgun is in
good condition ?
Assemble completely; grasp butt
in left hand, pistol-grip in right,
and shake from side to side. This
will reveal any looseness in joint.
Remove fore-end and repeat. If
no shake or looseness is felt, joint
is probably in good order. Examine
semicircular cut in lump for signs
of hammer-marks or thin shim of
tin or other packing. The stock
should be looked-over for signs of
splits and cracks.
If gun is hammerless, press a
penny firmly against each firing-pin
hole in turn and snap locks; marks
on coin will indicate depth and
strength of firing-pin blow. Examine
the interior of barrel for pitting
and dents. The latter may be
detected visibly as shadows, or felt
with fingers on /exterior of barrels.
Remove barrels from stock and sus-
pend by a loop of thin string about
the front-sight. Tap breech-end of
barrels y and lump with handle of a
table-knife; if barrels ring with
a clear metallic note the lump and
ribs should be right.
Brief Answers -
J.L.T.: Life-span of a panther is
about 21 years K.F.: “Elhicals”
or "ethical proprietaries” are trade-
terms applied to drugs and medi-
cinal preparations made or packed
in factories' and not compounded
by retail chemists, and intended to
be on doctors’ prescrip-
tions. They ate not advertised
directly to the public or sold over
the counter. Sales are promoted by
speciality salesmen, known as
detailers, who call on doctors and
press the uses and advantages of
their products. Another sales-
method is direct mail-advertising to


Public Notice
IN THE LOCAL COURT HELD AT
PERTH
Plaint No. 4548/1958
BETWEEN APO LL Y CONSTANCE
JOSLTN of 10 Curedale Street Beacons-
field Plaintiff and CHARLES lAN
BAKER of 19 Florence Street Cotte'sloe
Defendant.
TO the Defendant CHARLES lAN
BAKER—T A K E X OTICE that a
summons has been issued against you
by the ahovenamed Plaintiff for a
total amount of three hundred and
thirty-eight pounds and ten pence
(£338 Os. lOd.) and ten. pounds four
shillings and eight pence ( £lO 4s. Sd.)
costs and you are hereby notified that
unless within thirty days after the pub-
lication of this Notice you give notice
to the Clerk of the Local Court at Perth
that you intend to defend this action the
Plaintiff may proceed and Judgment may
be. given against you in vour absence.—
KOXT WALLACE & GUNNING. Soli-
citors, of 62 St. Ceorge’s Terrace,
Perth. /
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —lx Divorce.
TO MAP'RICE LEOXEL BERTRAND
late of 67 Rickard Road Narrabeen
North.—TAKE NOTICE that ELEANOR
IUTH BERTRAND has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3218 of 1958 on the
grounds of desertion- without just icause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Mint Building Macquarie Street Sydney
by 20th November 1958 and obtain a
copy v o£ the Petition without charge
from HUNT & HUNT, Solicitors, of 15
Bligh Street, Sydney. —. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME . (
ADDRESS ...
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s/6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A, . Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; £ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to The Bulletin" or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
doctors and advertisements in pro-
fessional journals... .J.B.: Tyrrell's
Pty., Ltd., can le.t you have a copy
for 21s F.C.: The phrase “the
last' man and the last shilling” was
used in a speech by the then P.M.,
Andrew Fisher, in the 'early years
of World War I. Jock Garden's
reply was, “I d o n’t know
who'll pay the last shilling, but
I'll be the last man!”... .H.H.M.:
.James Tyson died intestate; his
estate, which realised about
£2,500,000, Was distributed between
a sister and numerous nieces and
nephews A.H.: The total infor-
mal votes cast at the 1955 elections
for the House of Representatives
were 130,365. The total votes cast
were 4,540,751, and the total
electors enrolled 5,195,100. Infor-
mal votes cast in Queensland num-
bered 13,719... .L.L.: At the time
of Federation there was universal
manhood suffrage, and S.A. and
W.A. had given the franchise to
women. When the Commonwealth
was established, women were
enfranchised under the Constitution.
. ...R.B.H.: (1) Unable to trace
his exact words, but his known
picluresqueness of phrase would
suggest '“sideboards:” (2). W'rite
Tyrrell’s Pty., Ltd., 202 George
Street, Sydney.... P.C.: Bromi-
drosis is an affection of the sweat-
glands in which the sweat has an
offensive odor. The condition is
due to the presence in the glands
of contaminating germs. The feet
should be kept well powdered, the
powder being dusted liberally into
the socks and renewed when neces-
. sary. A suitable powder is plain
talc to which salicylic-acid (2 p.c.)
is added. X-rays are sometimes
recommended, but should not be
employed... .M.K.: “Kooriekirra,”
~ meaning- “foot of the rainbow;” is
the nearest abo. word... .N.J.:
Mould may be prevented by
weatherproofing tank.... D.C.:
E. H. Hargraves was born at
Gosport (England) and Peter Lalor
~at Tinakill fl reland). Neither was
ever a Convict... . B.S.B.: Coin is
“I protest, sir! This is a flagrant violation of the United
Nations Charter of Human Rights! "
worth no more than face-value....
H.T.: Operation would be impos-
sible without specialised equipment.
... .B.S N.: Use in the same way
as whitewash, adding a handful of
salt to each bucketful... .J.T.: (1)
The rule says: “All players have the
right to shuffle, dealer having right
to shuffle last.” (2) Yes; all royal-
ties are paid for... .K.N.Knight
George Fairbairn died in October,
1943... .M.C.: Possession of the
deeds would not secure the title for
you. Consult a solicitor.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
A ante and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntary y
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
V. 8.: “Was that a plump elf'?
Yes... .R.E.E.: They might be
called random nlusings... .D.G.:
“Rambling” is far away. ...D.G.
(W.A.): Quite good; without the
extra thrust that gets them into
print... .W.C.C.; Those themes
have all been done so often
J.N.J.; More of an idea than a
poem... .G.H.J.: All poems on the
vanished aborigines are the same
poem, and all —except 'perhaps* the
final masterpiece have been
written... .L.M.H.: A variatioiy on
the theme, with some good lines;
but' the total effect academic
J.L.P.: Your stalwart covering
letter is really better than the poem.
E.N.: One, line, then: “To
smoke or not to smoke, that is
the question”,.. .R.K.M.: Not a
bob.. _.D.I.F;: x “Poets” expelled
firmly from the premises... .A.S.:
Glad you’ve solved the “Marie
Celeste” mystery.... MacA.B.:
Never begin a poem with “Have
you ever.” Have you ever known
.a reputable poet who did?....
F.H.F.: “I know 1 will be ignored,
like everywhere I put in my appear-
ance, but I couldn’t help sending
in this smail poem.and drawing of
myself, done by myself, walking
along the- side of the canal,” We
can’t print the drawing—which is
not too bad —but, just to show you
weren’t ignored, here’s a bit of the
poem:
How nice it is on these frequent sunny
days
(That is aside from the rush, smells
and industrial haste)
To take a walk and pause underneath a
friendly tree
And while doing such, survey the scene,
so tranquilly
To linger—and to listen to the skylarks
singing in the sky,
How pleasant to the ear, but often lost
to the eye,
And watch the ducks and waterhens
swimming in the marsh
Separated from scenes often smoky and
so harsh
And as I surveyed (through binoculars)
this pastoral scene....
....N.R.: The last stanza spoils
it G.J.G.: Come in;—
Trains that go bv in the night
Are a pest.
They disturb
My rest.
. ...Marella; B'ut we criticised you
so nicely, so mildly, so favorably.
J.T.: Better keep on reading.
. ... .J.A.: “Spring” sprang....
D.H.: A good fox with a rather
scraggy brush What
did we say about “Have you ever”?
Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.
Claims which state the
section in which paragraphs
appear and the date of
appearance will he paid more
promptly than those which
don’t.
.... H.M.: Three basic faults:
poor plot, loose construction, weary-
ing length... .N.C.: There were
moments.... 8.5.:. Your boxer’s
“barrage of powerful left-hooks”
lacked decisive aim... .K.G.:
Needs a few guy-ropes to hold it
together. .. .M.M.: “The waves are
waved and curled unfurled the sails
are sailing swiftly.” “Failing
swiftly,” perhaps? ... .G.E.: Come
again, roughly 1000 words shorter.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
EAST-WEST TRADE
Tt was natural enough that
•*- British press-comment on
the relaxing of trade-restrictions
with Communist countries
should be slightly more opti-
mistic than that of U.S. papers
—with a rather less-oirgent
need for trade than John Bull,
Uncle Sam has at least given
the appearance of going along
rather reluctantly in the many
discussions and arguments,
which preceded the decision.
One British view (“Man-
chester Guardian”) comments
that “it is excellent news that
the Western Powers have been
able to agree on a really sub-
stantial relaxation of the con-
trols on exports to the Soviet
bloc” :
“This is a very satisfactory
outcome for the British Gov-
ernment, which has been
pressing for some time for the
embargo list to be confined to
goods which are still of
genuine strategic significance.
The existing controls have been
in force, with only minor
alterations, since 1954, and
scientific and industrial ad-
vances in Russia have since
made some of these restrictions
farcical. Nothing has been
gained militarily, and the Com-
munist countries have been
able to pretend that all the real
obstacles to trade were those
erected by the West. In fact,
it is doubtful if the embargo
has curtailed trade to any con-
siderable extent.
“Obviously the Russians
would have been pleased to buy
some of the military and scien-
tific equipment denied them,
but otherwise there is little evi-
dence that genuine trade has
been frustrated by the controls.
“This is not to say that
efforts to expand sales to
Russia are not worth while. An
increase in the flow of East-
West trade would be a real
economic advantage to most
European countries. Those
businessmen who have been
saying that they could sell
much more to the Communist
countries if they were not
hampered by the embargo will
now have the opportunity to
show what they can do, and
everyone should wish them
well. But it will be best not
to raise our expectations too
high.”
On the same subject, though
without seeing anything “excel-
lent” in the news, “New York
Times” adds that “while the
degree of this embargo’s effec-
tiveness is open to debate, there
can be no doubt that the basic
situation in the Communist
nations has changed during
these past years”:
“The expansion of Com-
munist industrial strength has
been substantial, and Com-
munist technological capabili-
ties have sharply increased. It
certainly makes sense for the
free world to try to avoid need-
lessly contributing to Soviet
military strength, but the em-
bargo’s possibilities for doing
this are obviously different to-
day from what they were, say,
five years ago.
“Furthermore, Communist
propaganda has argued for
years as though it were the
embargo that prevented a rich
and flourishing trade between
Communist and non-Com-
munist nations, despite the fact
that there have always been
many important non-strategic
goods available for such trade.
“What this latest change
certainly means is that this
Soviet propaganda line will be
weakened. Most Western ob-
servers have always believed
that it was the Communists’
inability to pay for sharply
increased Western sales to them
that has kept East-West trade
low. "Premier Khrushchev’s
recent request for long-term
American credits strengthened
that belief. Now that the list
of goods the Soviet Union can
buy has been widened, it will
be interesting to see how much
London “Daily Mail”
THE NOT-SO-DARING YOUNG MAN ON THE FLYING
TRAPEZE.
reality, if any, there has been
to this past propaganda.”
In another 'summing-up of
the possible outcome of the
relaxations, London “Financial
Times” says “that there will
be some increases as far as the
U.K. is concerned seems evi-
dent” :
“Copper is now released
from quantitative control, and
in recent years Russia has
always wanted more than she
was allowed to have. U.K.
exports of copper-wire and
alloys in 1957 —at £12.9
million —amounted to a third
of total exports.
“The freeing of some scien-
tific instruments spectro-
graphs, electron microscopes
and diffraction equipment—is
also likely to attract Russia.
Despite its own advances in
technology and electronics,
and 'the supplies which the
Soviet Union gets from Eastern
Germany, the chance to buy
this sort of equipment will
probably be taken-up by Russia
—if only in marginal quantities
—so as to study Western tech-
niques. Again, the freeing of
petrochemical equipment from
the embargo-list may well
appeal to the planners of the
present drive to boost Russia’s
chemical and plastics industry.
“Other changes—-if recognis-
ing realities—can hardly do
much to improve the flow of
trade. ,
“It is necessary to keep a
sense of proportion about the
prospects for increasing trade
between the U.K. and the
Soviet bloc. The total volume
of U.K. direct exports to the
Soviet Union in 1957 came to
£37 million —little more than
1 per cent, of all exports.
Taking into account exports to
the rest of the bloc, the amount
rises to over 2 per cent. Any in-
crease as a result of the pre-
sent lifting of embargoes is
likely to be a slow and gradual
business^
“This is not to underesti-
mate the importance of any
ipcrease, particularly with the
European satellites. It is always
advantageous to increase per-
sonal contacts, and in the
satellites w? have an oppor-
tunity of playing the Russians
at their own game of trade for
political purposes ; of showing
the satellites that trade and
contact with the West can be
as mutually advantageous, if
not more so, than trade and
contact within the bloc.
“Nonetheless, there are other
considerations which should
be taken into account. While
under normal conditions the
Russians are excellent trading


partners, the treatment handed-
out to two Israeli oil-companies
in a recent legal dispute in
Moscow, among other recent
events, should serve as a lasting
warning to companies plating
undue reliance on trade with
the bloc.”
Maikara
London “Daily Express”
comment on the first reports
of the new Australian weapon :
“Australia produces a new
guided-missile. For a country
with a population of nine-
million it is an outstanding
achievement of technical skill
and enterprise.
“How does Britain show her
pride? By silence. In White-
hall the War Office refuses to
talk. The Ministry of Supply
says the weapon is a top secret.
“Who, then, rpveais the full
story of the Malkara rocket?
Why, the American Embassy
in London!”
The Nautiflus Voyage
British and American press-
comment on the voyage under
the North Pole by the U.S.
atomic submarine Nautilus:
New York “Herald Tribune”
editorial comment: “The total
voyage of the Nautilus was
about 8000 miles, of which
perhaps 97 per cent, was
traversed under water. The
crew had the fantastic experi-
ence of viewing the ice above
them through television, as
they made the 96-hour journey
from Point Barrow, Alaska, to
the open Atlantic between
Greenland and Spitzbergen —
2114 miles of ice!”
* * $
David Laurence in N.Y.
“Herald Tribune”: “The
admiral [Rear-Admiral Hyman
G. Rukover, “father of the
atomic submarine”] pointed
out that the United States has
a total of 22 nuclear-powered
submarines that either have
been built or have been author-
ised and that the last three
authorised by Congress will
carry Polaris-type 1500-mile
missiles. This is a non-air-
breathing rocket which has not
yet been fully developed. But
the Regulus-type rocket —
which is air-breathing and can
be fired from submarines sur-
facing at night—the admiral
said, ‘are operational right
now.’
“Thus sea-power—long the
bulwark of our offence and
defence —joins air-power in the
development of strategic con-
cepts which, while designed'
primarily for use in war, can
really serve to maintain world
peace. For the history of inter-
national behavior has shown
that, where one major Power
or alliance of Powers has a
military advantage, it can use
its potential to secure respect
for its words of diplomacy
and thereby preserve peace.”
* * *
London “Financial Times”:
“The Nautilus has demon-
strated two points of vital mili-
tary importance. First, it can
travel for more than two years
without the need for refuelling.
The vessel was „in fact com-
missioned in September, 1954,
and was not refuelled until last
year after it had travelled some
60,000 miles. Second, the
Nautilus has shown that with-
out question atomic-powered
submarines can travel distances
of at least up to 2000 miles
under water. While it is true
that another U.S. atomic-
powered submarine —the Sea-
wolf —has already, crossed the
Atlantic without surfacing, the
journey underneath the Pole
demonstrates this facility with-
out any possible questiqn.”
** K '
“Manchester G u a r d i a n”:
“Airfields (though not aircraft
actually in the air), rocket-
bases, and other land instal-
lations are all vulnerable to a
sudden mass assault, and a
deterrent which depends on
them may become ineffective.
But submarines especially
nuclear submarines which can
remain submerged for weeks —
will le safe until radar can
scan beneath the seas as
exactly as it does above. What
is more, the Nautilus is appar-
ently equipped with torpedoes
adapted to blow a hole in the
ice a mile or two ahead of it.
From the hole nuclear missiles
can be launched, and the sub-
marine can \ disappear again
under the ice within minutes.”
* * *
London “News Chronicle”:
“Neither the Thor rockets nor
the land sites being prepared
for them in Britain can be
ready for some months. There
is, therefore, still time for
second thoughts made urgently
necessary by the achievements
of the Nautilus. Nuclear-
armed submarines operating as
mobile deterrents in the
Arctic, carrying a smaller
weapon, but at shorter range,
will make land sites senseless.
The advantages of submarine
deterrents roaming the distant
seabed, difficult to detect and
Faith in the
Future
One of the facts the world has to face on
atomic energy is that it is going to be with us now
until the end of time, and that, properly used and
understood, it will be of tremendous benefit to
Man’s existence.
It was with pleasure, then, that I recently
took the opportunity of seeing how Britain’s
admirable performance in the development of
nuclear energy is being brought home in education
to the British people.
The opportunity came when my good friend.
Sir William Black, helped me with introductions to
officials of the U.K. Atomic Energy Authority,
whose job it is to explain Britain’s nuclear
programme to the world.
In the Authority’s modern administrative
headquarters at Charles II Street, London, I saw
how public interest in these developments is being
met by the supply of information in its many forms.
One of the difficulties in winning public
appreciation of a new science, especially where it
deals with anything so enormous as atomic power,
is that its .technicalities are above the head of
the layman.
And yet—as I was to find—eighty per cent,
of the operations in aft atomic plant are conven-
tional; only twenty per cent, are new, as regards
the intense generation of heat for industrial power.
What does this mean? That the making of
atomic energy, for all.the staggering possibilities
it holds in the provision of power, is only an
extension of the lines of human achievement.
Electricity, at first, presented its mystery—and
its fear —in the capture of a might that had hitherto
been wielded in a streak of lightning. But
electricity today is known for what it is—a
wonderful blessing to humanity.
So with atomic energy.
Few of us may understand technically the
behaviour of a neutron. But all of us can trustingly
accept, and welcome, the knowledge that a great
new source of power is being brilliantly brought
to the service of mankind.
H. Hasturgs Peering


GUARD
CcL&il/
CIS .
PROTECTA [/<
Suitable for every type of business It records
all Sales. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing in appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
distributing Agents—
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE «
PERTH »
W, C. Penfold A Co. Pty. Ltd.
• Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd*
• Vardan Price Ltd.
• Docket Book Co. (AuaL)
far from populated areas, are
painfully obvious.”
♦ * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“Whatever the airmpn may say,
no sailor will doubt that the
feat of the Nautilus is the
American answer to the Soviet
sputnik. Not only in technical
achievement and in promise of
development are the two com-
parable ; as an act of daring
courage and personal achieve-
ment the feat of the submarine
crew is the greater. To spend
four days or more under the
ice, in uncharted water, pre-
sumably without radar bearings
and steering by dead reckon-
ing, must have been at
moments an ordeal close to
those suffered by the early
explorers.
“In strategic terms the
voyage of the Nautilus brings
home to Governments and
peoples what only a small
circle of people have yet fully
realised: that the nuclear-
powered submarine with
nuclear guided-missiles could
in time transform the defence
policy of the West.”
* * *
London “Daily Mail”: “The
Nautilus puts America one-up
on Russia. But for how long?
The Russians will get a
Nautilus, too, and then the
northern flank of North
America will also be vulnerable.
Here is shown the futility of the
London "Daily Express”
“NYE, WOULDN’T IT BE SIMPLER IF WE PURGED OURSELVES FROM THE ' SOCIALIST ’ PARTY, AND JOINED
THE TORIES?”
nuclear arms-race. How much
better it would be if the nations
would concentrate on the
peaceful potentialities of their
scientific successes. .
“Think of the tremendous
fillip to commerce that could,
and we hope will, result from
this tremendous adventure of
the American submarine men.
Not only will distances be
shortened, but ice-bound ports
will no longer be unusable.
That in itself should remove
one cause of struggle among
the peoples, and the increasing
traffic of men and goods should
remove others.”
U.S. and Red China
New York “Herald Tribune”
comment on another matter in
whieffi- Uncle Sam has not
agreed with the West —recog-
nition of Red China :
“Why should this nation
[the U.S.], founded in freedom,
accept the notion that- the
brutal tyranny of Communism
is ‘here to stay’ in mainland
China?
“That very logical question
lies at the heart of the forceful
and eloquent memorandum to
American Embassies which the
State Department has issued
on its China policy.
“ ‘lt is not,’ as the memoran-
dum states, ‘an inflexible
policy that cannot be altered
to meet changed conditions.
If the situation in the Far East
were so to change in its basic
elements as to call for a radi-
cally different evaluation of the
threat Chinese Communist
policies pose to the United
States and free-world security
interests, the United States
would of course readjust its
present policies.’
“But nothing in the past
actions of Communist China
indicates that it will abandon
its expansionist policies. As for
regarding tyranny as being
here to stay, the memorandum
adds:
“‘Dictatorships often create
an illusion of permanence
from the very fact that they
suppress and still all opposi-
tion, and that of the Chinese
Communists is no exception to
this rule. The United States
holds the view that Com-
munism’s rule in China is not
permanent and that it one day
will pass. By withholding
diplomatic recognition from
Peking it seeks to hasten that
passing.’
“Recent fugitives from Red
China,” the “Herald Tribune”
notes, “bring word that there
is great starvation and dis-
content among the peasants,
hitherto the chief support of'
the Communist regime.
Students and intellectuals, once
the bright hopefuls of a ‘new
era,’ have been sadly dis-
illusioned by the brutal repres-
sion which set-in after Mao
Tse-tung’s brief period of
relaxation (‘let a thousand
flowers bloom’). Celtainly
there are many ferments in
Red China which may yet
overthrow the tyranny, now as
repressive as Stalinism ever
was in its bloodiest heyday.”
In a British comment
touching on the other half of .
America’s Far East policy—
support for Chiang Kai-shek —
London “Economist” notes that
“the Nationalist regime in
Formosa today is a fact just
as much as the Communist
regime on the mainland is a
fact, for all that it is the smaller
and that it suffers in some
Western eyes from the defect
of being friendly to the West”:
“The American determina-
tion to defend Formosa is also
a fixed factor in world affairs,
at least for the duration of the
Eisenhower Administration.
A f . . . . T
After recent experience in Iraq
and elsewhere, however, it may
well be asked whether the
Nationalist Government in
Formosa itself has any real
stability or whether it may one
day be overthrown by an anti-
Western army coup. *
“It would be rash to assert
that such a thing is impossible,
but the signs are that the appeal
of pan-Arabism,- which makes
Arabs outside Egypt look to
Nasser as their national cham-
pion, has no parallel in any
appeal that Peking can make
to the people of Formosa or to
the troops of the Nationalist
Army.
“The Communist regime in
China, since it abandoned its
earlier gradualism in economic
policy and went in for the
general expropriation of the
bourgeoisie and collectivisation
of agriculture, has no longer
been able to commend itself on
the broad front which it
exploited so successfully in the
days of the civil war ; the land-
reform carried out in Formosa
in 1951-53 has reduced, if not
eliminated, the agrarian dis-
content which was formerly so
disastrous for the Kuomintang ;
and a steady stream of refugees
from the mainland informs the
people of Formosa that they
have higher standards of living,
and more freedom, than their
compatriots under Communist
rule.
“The economy of the island
is indeed in a flourishing condi-
tion with the stimulus of
American aid. Politically, the
old evils of ‘warlordism’ have
disappeared; the current
Administration of Formosa is
centralised and efficient. Chiang
Kai-shek is still as President at
the head of the Government,
but Chen Cheng, who became
Prime Minister in succession to
Mr. O. K. Yui, is a considerable
personality who could probably
take over without difficulty if
Chiang were to die or retire.
Ten years younger than Chiang
and a former governor of
Hupeh, he can claim much of
the credit for the regeneration


Compounded from an old Formula, STRATTONS RHEUMATIC
and ARTHRITIS POWDER contains no harmful drugs, will not affect
the heart and has successfully overcome the most difficult and
obstinate cases when all other treatments have failed. Persons in all
walks of life have found freedom from suffering, and hundreds of
grateful letters from satisfied users have been received by our
Consultant whose Treatment Advice is made available to you
FREE OF CHARGE as part of our Personalised Service which has
revolutionised the treatment of all types of Rheumatism and Arthritis
throughout the Commonwealth.
Four Weeks Treatment complete with Advice and Instructions and a
SPECIAL CONCESSION VOUCHER if your complaint needs further
treatment . . . costs only £1 POST FREE. *
STRATTONS RHEUMATIC POWDER Ltd.
■ 9 Barrack St., Perth, W.A. -
of the Nationalists as a political
force since their exile.
“The situation that now
exists in the Far East is un-
palatable to British public
opinion, since British official
policy has been committed for
the last nine years to the de
jure recognition of the Peking
regime as the Government of
China, and both the Conserva-
tive and Labor parties have
been in favor of a policy of
conciliating it and trying if
possible to loosen its ties with
the Soviet Union. American
and British policies are as far
apart as ever on this important
issue, and just for that reason
it would not be surprising if
the Communist Powers were to
concentrate in the near future
on the questions of Formosa
and China’s seat in the United
Nations in the hope of opening
a rift in the alliance of the
Western democracies.
“There is a need for thorough
consultation on Chinese affairs
between the British and
American Governments, in
spite of their present preoccu-
pation with the Middle East;
even if they cannot evolve a
common policy, they should
at least be able to avoid the
disarray that the sudden onset
of unforeseen events might
bring.”
Freedom of Space
With sputniks, etc., hurtling
through the heavens, the ques-
tion of air sovereignty is likely
to be a subject for lively legal
argument for some time to
come. Reviewing some of the
events and agreements on “air-
space” in pre-sputnik days,
Ronald Boyle recalls in “York-
shire Post” that “as early as
1919 several of the major
Powers meeting in Paris
acknowledged that each nation
could claim sovereignty for the
skies above its lands”:
“The United States did not
enter into that agreement, but
adopted a similar principle in
its Air Commerce Act, 1926.
The Russians incorporated it
in the Soviet Air Code of 1922.
The view was reiterated at the
1944 Chicago Convention,
though again Russia was not
a contracting party.
“The intention of these
various agreements was plain
enough— to prevent trespassing
by any potential enemy’s air-
craft. It was most unfortunate
that for this purpose the word
‘airspace’ should be coined,
for no official attempt was ever
made to define it.
“It has been generally pre-
— N.Y. “Herald Tribune”
HE DIDN’T STAY VERY LONG.
sumed that it should mean to
a height capable of supporting
an aircraft. A decade ago this
would have been measured in
thousands of feet. Today we
have the Comet cruising at
eight miles, the Canberra at
10 miles and the X-15 research
aircraft which is intended to
reach up to 100 miles.
“It could even be argued
that once we get a man-carry-
ing rocket that, too, can be
classified as an aircraft. It
may not be ‘supported’ by the
air or atmosphere, but, getting
down to fundamentals, how
many have been since the
demise of the airship?
“While ‘airspace’ has no
official ceiling, boundaries have
been defined from time to
time. The Russians refer to it
as ‘a column of air’ which pre-
supposes a strictly vertical
frontier. The West interprets
it as lines from the centre of
the earth continued past the
land boundaries giving air-
space the ‘shape’ of a slice of
cake. Under this latter varia-
tion on a cosmic theme,
Britain could presumably claim
a vast area of space, but this
is an outmoded way of
thinking.
“Mr. Diefenbaker, Prime
Minister of Canada, had the
right idea when he suggested
that airspace should be defined
as a height of 300 miles and
beyond that point there should
be freedom of the high space-
W'ays. Alter the figure of 300
miles if you like, but the prin-
ciple should be accepted.”
Hungarian Refugees
London “Time and Tide”
comment on the plight of 23,000
Hungarian refugees as yet un-
settled :
“Hungarian refugees these
days seem to be newsworthy
only when they come into
conflict with the law. We are
reminded of their existence only
by the occasional news para-
graph about a stowaway or a
social misfit who happened to
have left Hungary at the time
of the massacre. The Swiss
Government, however, seems
to have more conscience about
that tragic episode of con-
temporary history. In reject-
ing the Hungarian protest over
the incident when two young
Hungarian refugees entered the
Legation in Berne and opened
fire at Hungarian officials, the
Swiss Note reminded not only
Hungary but the whole world
that ‘the responsibility for the
incident . . . was to be found
in the place where tragic evenis
had compelled tens of
thousands of men to abandon
their fatherland and find
asylum abroad.’
“One of the reasons why our
memories have been so short is
no doubt the official verdict of
the United Nations Commis-
sioner for Refugee Problems,
Dr. Auguste Lindt, who
announced earlier this year
that ‘the Hungarian refugee
problem is now reduced to
manageable proportions.’ Un-
fortunately ‘manageable pro-
portions’ in this case include the
continued existence in refugee
camps in Austria and Yugo-
slavia of 23,000 unwanted
Hungarians who fled from their
country in those tragic days of
1956.
“This figure may not sound
high in view of the fact that
a total of 199,000 fled from
Hungary, but the resettlement
of about 150,000 should not
cause us any smugness. If we
are tempted to feel satisfied
with our conduct we should
think for a moment of the
106,000 other political refugees
from Eastern Europe who are
still rotting in various parts of
Western Europe. They remain
unwanted—39,ooo of them are
still in Displaced Persons’
camps. And then there are the
thousands of Chinese refugees
who fled from Communism.
We, the free world, are doing
precious little for them.”
Admiral Brown (the Sixth
Fleet's Commander): “The one
thing I don’t fear is a ballistic
missile. You can destroy a
city with an intercontinental
rocket, but you can’t destroy a
fleet. Unless our ships were
caught in port and the enemy
sent a rocket to each one of
those ports the fleet would
survive the initial onslaught of
missiles.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The National Trust
The annual meeting of the
National Trust of Australia
(N.S.W.) rounded-off a very
encouraging year.
Highlights were the State
Cabinet’s approval of a pro-
posed National Trust Enact-
ment, and transfer (also by
Act of Parliament) to the Trust
of the Tenterfield School of
Arts, venue of Sir Henry
Parkes’s famous Federation
speech on October 24, 1889,
together with £4548, proceeds
of a memorial appeal, for the
building’s maintenance.
Also important was the
Commonwealth Government’s
gesture making donations tax-
deductible and bequeathed
property exempt from Federal
estate-duty.
Membership during the year
went well past 1000, with an
increase of 175.
This active recognition by
both Federal and State Govern-
ments, coupled with steadily
mounting public support, has
immensely strengthened the
Trust’s status as a national
movement. The coming year,
perhaps, will see it nationally
established in the full sense of
the term. That is, affiliated on
a Federal basis with similar
bodies in other States (Vic-
toria and S.A., so far).
Towards this end, a con-
ference of representatives of the
three Trusts was held during
the year in Melbourne —another
good reason for calling 1957-
58 a big year. — Frank: Snow
(N.S.W.).
Barnes Wallis
As I heard the tale of Barnes
Wallis and the Eton boys, men-
tioned by “Old Opencut” (B.
20/8/’5B), it went something
like this:
In an address to one of the
higher forms at Eton, Barnes
Wallis (designer of the Vickers
Wellington bomber, the “dam-
buster” bomb, the “earth-
quake” bomb, and a recent
supersonic fighter which is
reported to have interested the
U.S.A.) said that a manned
bomber could always turn
faster and therefore escape
from any rocket - powered
guided-missile.
The Eton youths contested
this statement, naturally—
youths of that age always know
everything and tend to con-
sider tomorrow’s guided-
missile far more the thing than
the bomber and fighter of
yesterday or today.
Barnes Wallis, a Doctor of
Science and no stranger to
aeronautic problems, then went
home, perhaps in a slight huff,
and proceeded to make his
position impregnable with a
thoroughgoing mathematical
treatise on the subject which,
when last heard of, was
apparently cau s i n g some
“I'd like an AUSTRALIAN bath.”
second-thoughts in the missile-
happy realm of Mr Duncan
Sandys and others.
Otherwise, I agree with
everything “Old Opencut” says
—but 1 must point out that
it was Barnes Wallis, not the
Eton boys, who held the anti-
missile view. Their opposition
was apparently the catalyst that
made Dr. Wallis produce his
paper on the subject.—
R. V. R. (Q.).
Church Music
I’ll have to define “senti-
mental Victorian rubbish” in
order to answer “Another
Organist” (B. 3/9/’5B).
First, I was thinking specifi-
cally in Anglo - Victorian
terms ; that rules-out Mendels-
sohn —who, incidentally, had
nothing to do with the propa-
gation of dubious music
around this period. He was
too much of a musician to
allow environment or senti-
ment detrimentally to color his
output. Reference by “Another
Organist” to this composer’s
“O, for the Wings of a Dove”
is interesting ; a couple of Sun-
days back I used it for the basis
of a 10-minute improvisation
before morning service.
Take Stainer (1840-1901): at
his best, in his three church-
service settings, fluent and mas-
terly. But his popular “Cruci-
fixion,” unfortunately within
the range of most local choirs,
is quite another kettle of
crochets. With the exception
of “Processional to Calvary,”
that superb chorus where the
organ marches beneath the
singers, “Crucifixion” is a
dated essay of semitonal senti-
mentality. Or Caleb Simper,
composer of oodles of “Prize
Tunes,” whatever that may
have meant: his wheezy oh-so-
obvious anthems and carols are
still in at least partial demand.
And Maunder, too, is suspect;
it’s time “Olivet to Calvary”
was pensioned-off.
Agreed that Eric Thiman
writes fine, modern work ; so
do a score of others. Vaughan
Williams, who passed on
recently, gave English church-
music a shot in the arm. So
did Holst. Today there’s a
growing school of church-
composers among them,
Darke, Kenneth Long, Prit-
chard, Percy C. Buck, Henry
G. Ley—producing clear and
distinctive work. In much of
their music there is an un-
expressed acknowledgment of
Elizabethan and pre-Reforma-
tion Lutheran sources of
inspiration.
But, as I hinted earlier,
environment and social condi-
tions undoubtedly affected the
quality of Victorian church-
music. It was an age of rigid
conventions and a certain
amount of straitlacedness:
probably the average church-
goer, in his stiff collar and
black coat, looked for some-
thing rather sentimental
secretly to uplift him. Which
need was certainly met by the
composers of the period!
Organist (N.S.W.).
Road Transports
Ain’t it a the way trans-
ports thunder through towns
and villages? Staying at a
pub on the Hume Highway
(N.S.W.), 1 found it impossible
to sleep, because of the shatter-
ing roar of these monsters.
Surely it would be possible
to enforce a stoppage of them
between J 1 p.m. and 6 a.m., or
to slow them down after cer-
tain hours by compelling them
to travel over detours instead
of the main road.— Dear Bill
(A.C.T.).
Blitter Subsidy
Don’t lei's fool each other
with this butter - subsidy
(“Murray Swagman,” B.
20/8/’5B). Except for a few
districts in the eastern States,
most farmers combine dairying
with other agricultural pur-
suits. Ask any bank-manager
which is the best risk and he
will plump for the dairyman
every time —“Every time they
pull old Strawberry’s teat it’s
worth a bob or so. You can
plant a thousand acres of wheat
and get nothing if the season
turns dog.”
Then why doesn’t everyone
just milk cows? Most could,
but the majority prefer to use
the milk- or cream-can for an
assured cheque and farm
crops or grow fat-lambs to
make-up the annual return.
The reason they do this is that
it fits in with their line of
Jiving and they are not tied to
the cowyard all day. That’s
the fact that most so-called
Government experts overlook.
Milking cows, even with the
most up-to-date machinery and
buildings, is a monotonous
seven-day-a-week job. If one
takes the weekend off, someone
else has to do twice as much
that day. This has been proved
by the result of butter-price
rises. When the price was
stepped-up in 1951 all the


NO SINGLE RUM CAN MATCH IT!
RED JACK RUM
o
BED JAG*
RUM
BLENDED FROM QUEENSLAND’S
CHOICEST 7-YEAR-OLD
POT-STILL RUMS, NO "SINGLE”
RUM CAN MATCH IT
Specially blended by
John Dewar & Sons Ltd., Sydney and
Harbottle Brown & Co. Pty. Ltd., Sydney
DW37
J
♦
economists clapped, for the
result could be nothing less
than a record number of cows
milked. So they thought!
What actually happened was
that fewer cows were milked be-
cause the increased price kept
the dairy cheque up with less
effort. In some districts the
number of cows milked de-
creased 25 per cent., and the
increase in wheat, grains of the
small type, fat-lambs and beef-
cattle was proportional. When
asked why they milked fewer
cows the general answer was,
“It gets us away from the
cowyard.”
The general clamor for
increased subsidies is an astute
move. It means the dairy-
cheque is kept at its present
level if prices are falling, with-
out the need to milk more
cows ; if prices remain stable
an increase in subsidy means
the same return for less time
spent in the yard. In other
words, they can milk less cows
for the same result. This
inclination to get out of the
cowyard is a real one —it gets
mighty monotonous in the yard
52 weeks a year, morning and
evening in all sorts of weather.
The weakness of a subsidy is
that it encourages the no-hoper
as compared with the efficient
dairyman. Most full - time
dairyfarmers will admit the
present subsidy is sufficient,
because they have their herds
and farm geared to maximum
efficiency, which buffers market-
fluctuations to a certain extent.
But the no-hoper—and dairy-
ing has its share of them—is
running on a thin line all the
time, and a small decrease in
price is enough to send him
toppling.
The main reason why there
are so many no-hopers in the
game is that many are trying to
farm on land not suited for
dairying. I’ve seen chaps try-
ing to dairy on country that
wouldn’t feed a bandicoot, and
no amount of fertiliser and
good management would help
them, because the cost would
be enormous. The only way
these chaps can survive is a
decent injection of subsidy.
But, with world markets as
they are, how long can we
carry on like this? If the
industry is to become efficient,
mustn’t we use suitable land
for the job?
It’s something like setting-up
a sugar - refinery at Alice
Springs. You could build one
there, but how long before you
went broke, unless you were
subsidised? The same applies
to the chap who tries to dairy
on country that just isn’t suit-
able for the job.— Cocky (Q.).
Farm-subsidies, particularly
for dairying, are the bugbear
of the nation. Generally
foisted upon the country by
strong minority groups, they
are not needed by the really
efficient farmer. Good season
or bad season, high prices or
low prices, he will survive. In
good times he will make big
profits ; in bad times he will
still scrape through.
I’m not talking about the
wealthy city man who takes-up
farming as a hobby. I refer to
the true farmer who, through
his ability, and skill, combines
his resources for maximum
returns. To such a farmer a
subsidy is a welcome but
unneeded extra profit.
Only the farmer who uses
one or more of his resources
inefficiently—whose cows are
underproductive, or produc-
tive at too high an expense for
feed or labor, or who tries to
carry more head than his land
warrants —only he requires a
subsidy to cover his own
inadequacies. Here I mean
farmers already established.
Younger farmers, with
plenty of ability but lack of
capital, should be encouraged
—but not by way of produc-
tion-subsidy. What they want
is a loan, either free of interest
or at a nominal rate only, to
help get them into full produc-
tion. Once they get there they
will take care of themselves.
This would be cheaper for the
Government and for the con-
sumer, would create a better
productive economy and
would make for farming inde-
pendence.
With production - subsidies
we have the unusual spectacle
of extra payments being
demanded for inefficiency. —
Of the Earth (N.S.W.).
It's easy for a non-farmer to
say that the increased price of
land cancels out the benefit of
a subsidy. Rot! The subsidy
is not to give the farmer a
better income but to give the
non-farmer his butter below the
price of production.
As for the price of land,
farmers must have land to live,
and, regardless ©f the price,
they must buy it or inherit it—
the latter happens to more non-
farmers than otherwise. If
farmers only farmed for money
they would sell their farms
and live on the the interest of
their capital. Why they don’t
is a mystery known only to
farmers.
Land prices have been
forced up by severe competi-
tion for land between farmers
and speculators. There is a
remarkable number of business-
men who buy land and sink
thousands of pounds of capital
into it. If the farm is run at
a profit, so much the better—in
any case, it relieves them of
a lot of income-tax and
increases their social prestige.
Land frequently changes hands
at double its value, and only
too often valuable farming
properties go to an amateur
businessman who can outbuy
any but long- and well-
established farmers.
Younger men, raised on the
land—farmers to their finger-
tips, but without the financial
resources of their competitors
—must borrow very heavily to
buy land at inflated values.
Worse, it is almost impossible


to borrow money from banks
to buy land. There are more
lucrative investments nowa-
days.
“Murray Swagman” is wide
of the mark in his criticism.
Even his knowledge of cows
and dairying is questionable.
A cow that only gives 2501 b.
of butterfat a year is useless.
A dairy-cow on good dairying
country should give twice that,
while one-cow-to-the-acre land
should be turned over to sheep.
—J. J. A. (Vic.).
Meat-eaters
According to R. E. G.
Cunningham’s estimate (B.
6/8/’5B) there are 50-million
meat-eaters in Near Eastern
countries with a buying-
capacity equal to that of the
average Australian.
Some of the 50-million are
Mohammedans of Egypt,
Arabia, Iraq, Persia, India,
Indonesia and Pakistan and
Malaya, who eat both beef and
mutton, not to mention goats
and, in some areas, camels.
They insist on slaughter by
people of their own faith, who,
Mr. Cunningham points out,
would be required in small
numbers. Hindus of India do
not eat beef in any shape or
form, but a proportion of them
other than non-meat-eaters eat
mutton, provided it isn’t
slaughtered by Mohammedans.
For the rest, there are numbers
of Burmans, Malays and Indo-
nesians with no particular
scruples about meat.
No doubt Australia could
supply a lot of meat to Eastern
countries, but it is necessary to
consider some very big
obstacles, such as ships to carry
the frozen meat, means of
reception at ports-of-entry as
well as rail transportation over
very long distances in refriger-
ated rolling-stock, and retail-
butchers able and willing to
install refrigerated storage. All
these have to be provided from
scratch and, on the other side,
they would have to be in
being before even trial ship-
ments were made. They do
not exist at present. Suppos-
ing ways and means of plac-
ing our frozen meats ready for
customers to buy them are
provided, there still remain the
most difficult obstacles of all
—education of the consumer
to use imported meats and the
overcoming of religious
scruples and customs that exist
among meat-eaters of the prin-
cipal religions. The danger of
propaganda against imported
meats by the vested interests
of existing traders cannot be
overlooked.
My own belief is that the
scheme could be operated only
by foreign firms with their own
establishments in Australia to
take over livestock and handle
it in their own way. — G. D. B.
(N.S.W.),
Migration
“F.A.” is right; emigration
cannot solve Asia’s population
problems (B. 6/8/’5B). He
may also be right when he says
that Asians would not migrate
on a large scale, anyway ; but
he is wrong if he thinks that,
given an open door, enough of
them to give us a headache
would not come to Australia.
Why the Japanese did not
settle more freely in Brazil I
don’t know, but Japanese
migration to California,
hastened the tightening-up of
American immigration restric-
tions early in the century.
Indians are numerous enough
in Fiji and South Africa to
have disturbed local politics
and economy, and Chinese
were entering Australia as fast
as they could raise passage-
money until our White Aus-
tralia laws stopped them.
Chinese migrate almost as
freely as the English ; they are
all over the world. Singapore
and Malaya are full of them.
Almost any Chinese or
Indian two-acre crofter would
swap his hope of Heaven for
the freehold of five acres of
Queensland bananas or toma-
toes, or a Darling Downs
wheatfarm ; and an Indian
whose purchase of Australian
land was financed by a com-
patriot moneylender would be
an “Asian with capital to
invest”—a point which “Jas.
Macansh” (also B. 6/8 / ’5B)
seems to have overlooked.
It is easy to imagine Bris-
bane’s “Salad Bowl,” for
instance, becoming an “insu-
lated colony” of Indian
peasants, in thrall to absentee
mortgagees, hoarding silver in
jamtins, completely at cross-
purposes with the rest of us,
and with no desire to be any
other way.
“White Australia” is our
problem, and too knotty to be
solved by “tourists” or univer-
sity students—though the dis-
cussions they provoke will
help.— Carl Helmar (Q.).
“Jas. Macansh’s” suggestion
(B. 6/8/'5B) that certain
types of highly educated Asians
could be admitted to Aus-
tralia without imperilling the
White Australia policy, and
with advantage to this country,
is apparently possible without
any modification of the law as
it stands.
One of the leading legal
figures on the Government side
in the Federal House, P. E.
Joske, was reported as saying
in Parliament:
“Australia was now admit-
ting far more Asiatics than
would be admitted by a small
quota for which some
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 504
Across
I—One1 —One way to make a yacht-girl pop with regard to letter-
press. (13)
7 —The most fitting examination for the editor of “The
Children’s Encyclopaedia.” (7)
9 —Time during which wine not available. (4, 3)
11 — Turin eggs are scrambled with significant movements. (9)
12 — An order in the honors list, and a direction in the
fat. (5)
13 — Foregoing is heartened by the
first person in ancient Rome. (3)
14 — Bewitch a corresponding kiss of
the male kind. (3)
15 — Non - scoring woman - cricketer
ought not to be proud of this
valiant fellow. (4)
19 — Where to swim back a feature
of the tramway at Queen's
Square. (4)
20— Lip a vital feature of this Ameri-
can jail half of a nightingale’s
phrase. (3)
21 — Aunt Sally is bashful. (3)
25 — Flies one out of music with a
finish. (5)
26 — Step on some luggage lift’s
alternative. (9)
27 — Bluish Indian antelope sounds
like an American bloke who gets
a duck. (7)
28 — Get up an illustration of a semi-
circle leg. (5)
29 — Grandmother surprised this Com-
munist part of England’s York-
shire outlaw from Sherwood.
(3, 6,4)
Down
1 and 2—Well - mannered convicts
give satisfaction; there’s a hint
that bars cannot hold them much
longer. (4, 9,6)
3 Trees produced by horse-
stoppers. (8)
4 Composer urger who works with-
out pay. (8)
5 Is the alternative unable to be
a church choir-leader, Eddie? (6)
6 Prepared for shaving a device for
turning crimson. (8)
B—Understand a little branch. (4)
10 —A Fort Gallantchap advertise-
ment ordered when 1 and 2 down
is heard? (3, 3,3, 4)
16 — Unruly curl as on a foreign
representative's relative. (8)
17 — Wistit ring horseshoe —is it
doubled-up? (,8)
18 — Cleaner Menzies with much
attractive grace of manner. (8)'
22 — Pulverised mother threw off —
crazy about her in another
case. (6)
23 — Mineral talk translated from the
German. (4)
24 — Exhaustingly windy talk with a
member of a ledge rock, (6)
Solution to Crossword No. 503


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
XtiVtN
Sb^'
Oil Aid <r:
NVAmnsP
* NOSM3VC
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Tele grains and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
‘enthusiasts’ were crying out.
Australia was now prepared to
receive Asiatics who wished to
study here, to carry on busi-
ness, or to travel, and, in
certain circumstances, was
prepared to naturalise them.”
—Kanimbla (N.S.W.).
Rural Art fmbwT
Judging by the wide pub-
licity they get, art-competitions
run by country councils are
becoming one of the big events
of the year. The stimulus to
the overall cultural side of
rural life goes without saying.
These competitions are the
accepted media for unearthing
hidden talent, and it’s surpris-
ing how many country-folk,
following a natural urge and
often with little or no tuition,
spend most of their leisure on
painting or sketching. Locally-
run competitions, setting local
standards, offer these people an
opportunity of discovering,
either as competitors or
viewers, how their own efforts
compare with such standards.
Country districts could do
with more than just civic-
sponsored art - competitions,
and it’s a wonder the need isn’t
exploited by one or another
of the many public organisa-
tions with their roots in
country life. The Country
Women’s Association, for
instance, is ideally organised to
manage a full-scale art-com-
petition in every State, each
starting, say, on a provincial
scale—after the style of those
efficiently-run C.W.A. annual
cake-making contests.
Considering that the greater
proportion of artists and art-
lovers living in the country are
women, the C.W.A. couldn’t
go wrong in that sphere, and
every penny put into the idea
would be amply repaid in
terms of prestige and publicity.
Capital-city and some of the
more important provincial
agricultural societies, too,
might well consider the pos-
sible drawcard-value of art-
competitions on agri c u 1-
tural themes. — Frank. Snow
(N.S.W.).
Modern Retailing
The half-pound of soda-
biscuits, hygienically wrapped
in cellophane, which used to
cost me Is. 3d., now comes in
a more ornate overcoat at an
extra cost of 4d.
A popular brand of ice-
cream is now packed in a
plastic container instead of the
useful hygienic cardboard. It
costs another trey.
Manufacturers of the
cheaper and much-advertised
varieties of toilet-soaps are
vying with each other in pre-
senting their wares in gaudy,
tinselled wrappings—but at
ever-increasing cost to the
buyers.
In hardware, a small - bolt
with screws, which used to sell
at Is. 6d., is now daintily
wrapped in cellophane. It
pushes the customer back an
extra zack.
The sky’s the limit with
chocolates —the highly decor-
ated box costs almost as much
25 ths gontents.
We’re whales for p'anrah-
ment.—J. S. (N.S.W.).
Automation
“P.0.M.C.” (B. 20/8/’5B)
shows an uncommon faith in
technology with his idea that
a train-driver’s general vision
is an unnecessary supplement to
“driving on the signals.”
The inherent dangers of
transport make it an undesir-
able field for wholesale auto-
mation. Engineers could auto-
mate railway working and
dispense with drivers, but
“P.0.M.C.” suggests that we
already have it with his picture
of a “driver-automaton” who
does no more in the safety-
line than pick red from green
—the light signals are auto-
matic ; add a “robot-driver”
and that equals automation.
It’s true that railways bring-
up their drivers on the philo-
sophy of infallible signals, so
that an adverse signal will
never be disregarded. The
trouble is, the philosophy is
double-edged. If a “red” is
never wrong, neither is a
“green,” and a driver is legally
entitled to charge through a
favorable signal at maximum
speed. Inconsistently, he is
expected to use his general
vision to confirm it as best he
can.
Engineers always try to
design “fail-safe” systems, and
that certainly goes for railway
signalling a failed signal
should display “red” or noth-
ing. The semaphore signals,
too, are designed “fail-safe” —
the semaphore-arm is “gravity-
loaded” to make it fall to the
“red” position if the mechani-
cal linkage should fail.
For «!i fhat, an uncondi-
tional guarantee that signals
cannot “fail - dangerous”
belongs to a better world than
this. The red lights on the rear
of trains are a tacit admission
of that, as is the regulation
which requires the guard to
walk back and place detonators
when a train stalls on the road.
It’s still a good idea to have
a driver up-front. As “Old
Opencut” (B. 20/8/’5B)
phrased it, “We just can’t build
ersatz brains.” Acolyte
(N.S.W.).
Russell Oakes
Russell Oakes, author of
“Enduring as the Camphor
Tree” (B. 3/ 9 / ’5B), has been
dead some years. When first
I knew him as a young man —
we both contributed prolifically
“Aussie” and “Smith’s
Weekly”— he professed no
ambitions as a playwright and
was then toying with the novel-
form.
Around 1931 I wrote a
scenario for Cinesound which
I had discussed with Russell,
and which the then managing-
director told me he liked, but
—there’s always the “but” —
after some six anxious months
returned the script to me with
a letter of regret. Perhaps
Russell reckoned that if I
could write a scenario capable
Of awakening even slight
interest on a virtually
existent market he could write
a play capable of reaching the
boards. Actually, I believe
“Enduring as the Camphor
Tree” has been produced twice.
Russell Oakes wrote trades-
man-like short-stories —he is
represented in a collection of
Australian stories published by
the Oxford Press and edited, I
think, by Walter Murdoch.
Also, he was in an early edition
or two of Coast to Coast.
Incidentally, I agree with
H. A. Lindsay that there are
several essentially Australian
plays available for staging and
just as worthy of professional
performance as “The Doll.” —
P O. MAcCABE (N.S.W.).


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
PROGRESS IN WOOL-POOLING
By D. M. BROWN
the past two seasons the
amount of wool sold in New
South Wales under established
wool-pool brands has increased
considerably. There are several
reasons: the more mixed nature
and dwindling size of individual
wool-clips throughout the
State ; the recent entry into
wool-preparation by some of
the woolselling brokers; and,
the biggest contributory factor,
a trend towards complete
preparation of wool-clips in the
selling-centres.
Central woolclassing—first-
instance classing of wool-clips
in conjunction with wool-pools
near the selling-centres—allows
the classer scope from the start.
The main lines of wool in the
clip—the big lots sold under
the owner’s brand can be
truer to type, with no risk of
a “tail” in the classing, and
anything lighter by weight than
a five-bale big lot goes straight
into its right type in the wool-
pool, without further worry or
If sheep develop a
light brown or
coppery coloured skin
it could be a symptom
of copper poisoning
or heliotrope poison-
ing. Sheep so affected
should be immedi-
ately moved to an-
other paddock. To
avoid causing danger-
ous wounds which
could be infected by
disease germs graziers
should use Elastrator
Rubber Rings when
marking and tailing
lambs.
cost. During the past season
many clips were centrally
classed under this system for an
average classing-charge as low
as 2.80 d. a lb.
Higher woolclassing rates,
shed-labor costs, the need for
“ That's the part that bothers me —is it just an ordinary
flood or is it part of the Snowy River Scheme P”
woolselling-brokers to order
reclassing if a clip is not up
to standard, and the fact that
star lots are frequently
blended, all add to the initial
classing-cost. So clip-prepara-
tion through central classing
must result in lower classing-
costs than when clips are
prepared in the shed with
natural reservations as to even-
ness of flocks and growing-
conditions, and size of clip.
Individual pool-lines from a
clip classed centrally can be
as heavy as 9441 b. (minimum
bale-weight is 2021 b., including
tare). This is not sufficient to
press into five bales and make
a big lot for sale under the
owner’s brand, so it goes into
the pool. In the shearing-shed
it takes a lot of persuasion to
convince most growers not to
bulk such an amount with one
of the main lines. Total wool
pooled—say, from a 40-bale
clip—might be a third, and even
as high as two-thirds, of the
clip.
It is also difficult to convince
growers not to bulk the
large types suited to pooling
with the main lines. With
falling wool-prices, however,
the financial risks of bad or
ineffective woolclassing have
nearly doubled. Taking Jimac
wool-pool prices as the guide,
the difference in price for
average-quality Merino fleece
and the broken from this fleece
was 15 per cent, in April, 1957,
and 26 per cent, at the close
of the season this year. For
comeback wool the difference
jumped from 10 per cent, to 25
per cent, over the same period,
and for crossbred wools from
13 per cent, to 18 per cent.
It is accepted that mixed
lines sell near the value of the
lower line, not at an average
of the values for each type in
the line. The harder the market
the greater the woolbuyer’s
inclination to depreciate his
overall valuation, because his
mill must re-sort unwanted
types and re-sell them.
On current trends, larger
growers with evenly-grown
clips can consider the eco-
nomics of forwarding better
wools for pooling—soolb. to
6001 b. of a straight type —rather
than allowing such wools to
depreciate the value of main
lines, or appear on the market
as star lots, or be blended.
Nitrogenous
Fertilisers
“B ill j i m”: Nitrogenous
fertilisers give better yields to
pome and stone-fruit trees if
used between September and
December.
Sub - clover cover - crops
make nitrogen available to
trees during the later winter
months and help to supply this
early demand for the fertiliser.
Under irrigation, it’s an advan-
tage to split the nitrogen
dressings. The spring dressing
is the most important; about
two-thirds of the annual appli-
cation should be used then.
The rest can be very useful for
most varieties if applied early
in December.
For late varieties, such
as cling-peaches, it’s better
to split the fertiliser into three
dressings, giving half in early
spring, a quarter in early
December and a quarter about
six weeks before harvest.
Dehorning
“Agricola”: Dehorning is a
simple matter for the dairy-
farmer, who can dehorn calves
when they are a few days old,
but it’s a different story on
cattle-stations, where the
mickies are not mustered until
a month or so old.
The caustic-stick is the
cheapest way to dehorn calves,
and can be used on calves up
to two weeks old. The best
age to do them is one week.
Clip the hair from round the
horn-button, hold the stick of
caustic potash in a rag to stop
it burning the fingers, and
gently rub the horn-bud with
the stick until the top layer of
skin is removed, starting from
the middle and working out
to the edge of the bud. It takes
only a few seconds to do each
horn-bud, and the growth of
the calf isn’t stunted ; also, the
method is practically painless.
Don't use the caustic stick in
wet weather unless the calves
are tethered in out of the rain
(the caustic can be washed off
the bud and scald the face).
Caustic-sticks can be bought
from any chemist at only a
few pence each. They should
be kept in an airtight bottle;
they dissolve on contact with
the air.
Many farmers prefer caustic-
paste, which also gives good
results. Clip the hair round the
horn-button and swab the
surface of the button with
metho to shift the natural grease
from the skin, then smear the
caustic-paste over the horn.
An old toothbrush is ideal for
the job. Don’t pile the paste on
too thickly, and be sure none
reaches the skin on the side of
the face.
At three weeks a calf is past
the caustic-stick stage. With
calves up to a year old the cup
dehorner is as good as any.
Tie the calf in a race or bail,
and if the hair round the horn
is long, clip it short before
fitting the dehorner over the
horn. Make sure about fin.
of skin is removed with the
horn, or an unsightly stub of
horn may grow again. In the
fly-season, apply a smear of any
good fly-repellent.
Dehorning adult cattle is not


m
a 8 4: '< t >
IS
VfHvs
H
~
4
wt* .
SSI'S
f: ■
DRIVE HOLDEN
... the sales Seeder ... the value leader
CHECK HOW MUCH MORE YOU GET FOR YOUR MONEY !
Look at the new Holden and you see the
extra value that it offers you in smartness.
Sit in Holden and you can tell how much
extra room it gives you for your money.
But there’s only one sure way to know the
full score on Holden value and that's to
drive Holden yourself.
Come in now. Get proof that Holden
offers you more of everything you want in
a family car.
More for your money in driving
pleasure. Holden gives you all the
smoothness and power of a six cylinder
engine at lowest cost. And recent improve-
ments have made the Holden engine run
more sweetly than ever.
More for your money in comfort.
Holden is the lowest priced six passenger
car you can buy and there’s a huge amount
of space for luggage.
Better overall economy. Holden saves
you money with thrifty petrol consumption,
dependable performance and high resale
value. Low cost parts are available
everywhere. T 237
Holden is the one car
designed and proved for Australia
On a 2000 acre site at Lang Lang,
Victoria, GMH has built the first
automobile proving ground in Aus-
tralia. Here, Holden is proved under
all the varied road conditions to be
found in Australia ... on steep hills,
on unmade roads, on hairpin bends,
on loose shifting gravel, and on a
rough track circuit. And the tests
go on six days a week, 24 hours a day.
Through the Proving Ground GMH
have ensured that Holden is the
finest value for you.
HOLDEN
AUSTRALIA’S OWN CAR Prices from £9lO plus tax.
AUSTRALIA’S OWN STATION SEDAN Prices from £995 plus tax
REGD.
GMAC Hire Purchase Available . “Air Chief ' is the GMH car radio .
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN'S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia.
a pleasant job. With milkers it
knocks the milk-cheque about
for a few days, and beef-cattle
take it hard, too. Still, it can
be done successfully with a
minimum of pain if you choose
the right time. The middle of
summer, when stock are
knocked with heat or when
flies are bad, is not the time
to cut off the horns. Choose a
cool day—easier on the cattle
and the man working the
dehorner.
The best instrument to use is
the guillotine-dehorncr ; expen-
sive, but it can be hired or
shared among several stockmen.
Make sure the animal is
properly restrained. If it can
move the head about, you may
injure it, or it you. If many
cattie are likely to be dehorned,
a small dehorning crush will
pay for itself many times over.
As with the dehorning-cup
for calves, make sure a
circle of skin comes away
with the horn. Don’t be in a
hurry to do the job. Fit the
blades carefully over the horn
and far enough down to get
this circle of skin. When they’re
in position, press the handles'"
quickly together. The horn
will come away clean, and
there’ll be the minimum of
pain.
In big-horned cattle there
may be a fair amount of bleed-
ing. A favorite method of
stopping this is to sprinkle the
bleeding surface with boracic
or powdered alum or a mixture
of both, kept in a clean tin
with a sprinkler-top. If the
bleeding continues after an
hour, an artery is causing the
trouble. Tie the animal’s head
up short and grab the bleeding
artery with a pair of clean
forceps or pliers. Slip a loop
of clean string over the pliers
and down on the stump of the
artery, and pull tight.
Many have been turned away
from dehorning bv the mess
they see adult cattle in when
the horns have been taken off,
especially in hot weather or
when flies are bad. This is
simply overcome by using the
caustic method on dairyfarms,
or the cup dehorner on beef-
calves. On cattle-stations, the
horns on the calves can be
removed when they are inocu*
lated for blackleg or brought
in for branding. There is no
need to let them go until fully
grown.
Comeback Lambs
“Pat O'Day”: In the Gun-
dagai (N.S.W.) district sheep-
oreeders specialise in a very
desirable type of lamb. The
progeny of Corriedale-Merino
joining, it is ideal for this
country, with an elevation of
780-900 ft., an average rainfall
of approximately 26in., and
plenty of natural clover.
At Tumblong, about 10
miles south of Gundagai, the
original Bangus station con-
sisted of approximately 20,000
acres of ideal woolgrowing
land, with hill-country and
undulating lands merging on to
the Murrumbidgee flats. It was
cut-up into several valuable
areas of from 1700 to 2000
acres over 40 years ago, and
at present it has been sub-
divided for soldier-settlement
The station was renowned for
its Corriedale sheep, and the
high quality of its wool was
well known at Sydney auctions,
Medium-fine Merinos are
also bred at Tumblong, and
where practicable a good line
of Corriedale “breeders” are
run with them. Merino rams
are used with both Merino-ewe
fiocks and with the Corriedale-
ewe portion by one Tumblong
grazier. Comeback lambs,
which are a feature of the
Merino-Corriedale joining, are
producing excellent wool. Also,
these lambs, when matured and
reaching hogget stage, are a
paying proposition for the
farmer of medium means,
Take, for example, a line of
comeback lambs just being
shorn on a property in this
neighborhood. These one-year-
olds are in good store-condi-
tion despite the recent drought.


BALD PATCHES
Hair grown secret formula
Sacred Eastern Oils. Rarely
fails. Treats Alopecia. Leading
broadcaster’s hair grown after
years of Baldness. Effective
treatment for dandruff (Basic
cause of nearly all hair sick-
ness). and stops falling bail'.
My herbal treatment restores
grey hair to original colour.
Not a dye— Dot iniurions, not
obvious Names given of lead-
ing citizens (with their per-
mission) who gratefully testify
My treatment used in privacy
of your home.
For free advice write—
MRS. A. EASTON,
Box 5204, G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE
and are welt wooled from the
head to “tip of their toes.”
Some fleeces from them weigh
as much as 61b., varying to
41’s. There are 14 bales of
wool in the “comeback clip”
—approximately 600 lambs —
and bale-weights are all about
the 300ib. mark
Comeback lambs look
attractive for sale about two
months off-shears. When the
warmer weather comes the
wethers will be sold and the
ewes will be joined at 17 months
to strong-wool Merino rams.
Medium-wool Merino rams
will be again used for the
older Corriedale ewes.
Weaning
“Snobby”: When weaning
(early or late) lambs, calves or
foals remember it’s the greatest
shock to date in the lives of
the youngsters. They haven’t
yet had to think for themselves
—having hitherto had their
mothers to lead them.
Therefore it’s advisable to
make things as simple as
possible for the babies —water
where they’d expect to find it ;
well-worn paths in the paddock
to direct their young footsteps ;
and other such things that will
immediately spring to the mind
of a stockmaster.
Cross-weaning, now out of
date, had much to commend it
with sheep—put the lambs from
paddock A with the ewes in
paddock B and reverse with
the B lambs. Each lot, though
weaned from their own
mothers, still had the guidance
of ewes.
One of the main things, with
sheep, particularly in the
larger and drier areas of inland
parts, is the state of the feed.
Never mind the calendar; if
there’s an unseasonal fall of
rain, enough to promote a
shoot of grass, wean on that,
even if it’s a couple of weeks
or so earlier than the pro-
gramme. The little fellows get
a green shoot for their tender
little teeth and can go straight
ahead from where they
knocked-off with their mothers.
Finally, the natural weaning-
date about equals the period of
gestation. The mother should
dry-off her milk-flow about a
month short of that time. That
is the natural law, and it isn’t
a bad rule to observe such
regulations.
Care of Batteries
“Dune”: Probably the most
abused piece of equipment on
the modern farm is the tractor-
battery, or for that matter the
truck-battery, especially where
these implements are handled
by more than one hand.
It’s usually left to the other
chap to service both battery
and tyres. The tyres simply
have to be attended to, but the
battery usually only gets a
“top-up” every Pancake-day,
and gets cleaned on the top and
around the terminals only when
the corrosion is so thick that
it proclaims its presence.
Replacement of maltreated
batteries is an expensive
pastime these days, so they
deserve proper care. A swab-
over with a rag rinsed-out in
hot water will claan off the
corrosion, and a fresh coating
of vaseline over the terminal-
points also helps. A tractor
which works and stands out in
the summer sun wants a little
distilled water once a week and
a rinse-down once an month.
Leaf-miner Grub
“Myall”: The leaf-miner
grub (Gnorimoschema opercu-
lella), which is troubling
tobacco - farmers round
Mareeba (N.Q.), is the larva
of the potato-tuber moth (it
also damages beans and
tomatoes). The grubs attack
young plants in the seed-beds
and in the field ; they tunnel
extensively in the leaves, eating-
out the central tissue and leav-
ing only the thin upper and
lower surfaces intact. Many
seedlings die from this pest.
Its control is difficult because
it feeds internally, protected
from such poison-sprays as
arsenate of lead. D.D.T.
(applied either as a spray at the
strength of 0.1 per cent, or as
2 per cent, dust) seems the best
means of destroying leaf-
miners. It’s compatible with
copper fungicides, so one spray-
ing can control both fungus
and grub. Where infestation is
severe, spray the plants when
10 days old, and repeat every
10 days. Otherwise try to
regulate spraying to ensure
an application just before
planting-out, with another
spraying 10 days later, and
then two further sprayings at
intervals of three weeks should
control the pest.
All tobacco-plants should be
pulled out and burnt as soon as
the crop is harvested, and
weeds like black-berried night-
shade, curved thorn-apple and
Indian gooseberry-plant (host-
plants for the leaf-miner during
the period between successive
crops) should be destroyed.
"Scours in Calves"
“Acres”: Scouring of calves
is caused by either bacteria or
parasites, or by faulty diet.
Speed in diagnosing the trouble
is essential.
Bacterial infection usually
occurs in the younger animals,
and is marked by a definite
rise in temperature, which is
absent in scours caused by diet-
upsets or parasites.
It should not be difficult to
decide between scouring caused
by incorrect feeding (usually
overfeeding) and the scouring
caused by stomach-worms
picked-up from older'stock.
Here’s the answer: cleanli-
ness at all times ; sulpha-drugs,
such as sulphamizathine, for
bacterial scours ; a very definite
drench-programme for para-
sites ; and a well-planned diet
with good-quality hay and a
rotation of pastures. These will
give a good start to the future
cows of the herd, and this
will be reflected in production.
Swedes on Irrigation
“B'g Billy”: Swedes are
valuable where there is irriga-
tion and on small properties
where high production per acre
is important.
In conjunction.with hay and
autumn-saved pasture they
provide the basis 'for sub-
stantial increases in carrying-
capacity.
The soil should be prepared
now for sowing in October,
either by drilling in 7in. rows
on the flat with the grain-drill
or sowing on 28in. ridges with
the lurnip-ridger. In the first
instance use lOoz. to 12oz. of
seed ; in the second, soz. to
7oz.
Heavy rates of fertiliser are
needed for Swedes grown under
irrigation ; they are responsive
to super. For row-crops, use
3cwt. an acre of equal parts
super, and lime, and for the
ridged sowing 2cwt. an acre
with the seed and 2cwt. below
the seed.
Irrigation depends OI J
method of sowing contours Oi
land and what labor ana
equipment are available, kin
a ridged paddock furrow-
irrigation is best. Use of
land-leveller during seedbe
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(4/9/’58)
Light to moderate patchy rains, generally below normal,
are indicated in Queensland during October, and rainfall
may also be poor in November, apart from moderate rains
in the south. General rains are to be expected in December,
with the likelihood of flooding in the southern half of the
State.
The N.S.W. coast and tablelands, the South-west Slopes
and part of the central-west area may receive moderate
rain in October, although the balance of the State may have
only light rain. Rainfall may also be patchy in November,
with good general rains in the whole of the State during
December.
In Victoria light to moderate patchy rains are indi-
cated in the Maliee district and northern division during
October, although good rains may be received in the
southern half of the State, with the likelihood of some flood-
ing in the southern rivers. Similar rains are likely in
November, with good general rains in December.
Good rains should be experienced in the agricultural
areas of South Australia during October, varying from light
to moderate in the Murray Valley and poor in the upper-
north and interior. November is likely to be a dry month,
with good general rains in December.
Apart from moderate rain on the south-west central
coast, there will probably be only light patchy rains in
Western Australia during October, and rainfall may be
poor in November. Good rains are indicated in the Kim-
berleys and part of the south-west during December.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY
.... Right in the
Business Centre
You'll find the utmost in comfort
and convenience at The Hotel
Metropole. Conveniently situated
right in the heart of Sydney’s “West
End,” the Hotel Metropole is handy
to transport, offices and Sydney’s
smartest shops and theatres. Enjoy
superb, relaxed comfort at the Hotel
Metropole on your next trip to
Sydney. Over 400 rooms, 85 with
private bathroom; luxurious ultra-
modern suites; friendly, efficient
room-service, day and night; superb
cellar and cuisine; magnificently
appointed dining room and six
banquet rooms —yes, the Hotel
Metropole is truly THE place to
stay in Sydney!
THE HOTEL METROPOLE
Australia’s Most
Friendly Hotel
B 0522. Box 1601, G.P.O.
preparations helps to smooth-
out minor hollows and im-
proves the water-coverage.
All stock winter well on
swedes, but sheep need sound
teeth to eat them, so on farms
where the flock consists mostly
of older sheep, it’s best to feed
other turnips instead.
Drought-feeding
“North”: At the Burdekin
Drought-feeding Unit, Glen-
field (N.S.W.), experiments by
the C.5.1.R.0. and the N.S.VV.
Department of Agriculture now-
show that the policy of “little
and often” for hand-feeding
during long dry spells is wrong.
Feeding weekly or bi-weekly
is more economical than daily
feeding, except for ewes near
lambing-time. When animals
are fed daily the stronger ones
eat more than their share, at
the expense of shy feeders,
which may starve to death.
Deaths were shown to be less
frequent when sheep were given
a week's ration at a time than
when they received the same
amount divided into seven daily
feeds, and Merino sheep can
evidently survive on a lower
ration than was previously
thought possible. The weight
of adult Merinos can decline up
to 40 per cent., yet the sheep
will recover when plenty of
food is available.
The following recom-
mendations for drought-feed-
ing were made by the
C.5.1.R.0.:
Low-quality roughage serves
as a useful and inexpensive
maintenance-ration when sup-
plemented with a small quantity
of protein concentrate.
All-grain rations are satis-
factory when supplemented
with l to If per cent, of finely-
ground limestone.
Lambs, and rams
may need vitamin-A supple-
ments if no green-feed has been
consumed for some months.
Machinery Costs
“Agricola”: The heavy
depreciation on most farm-
machinery is worrying farm-
economists who are trying to
reduce costs of production.
Normal wear-and-tear depreci-
ation is inevitable, but depreci-
ation that is often most worry-
ln§ can be avoided with a little
care.
. It’s surprising that, after pay-
mg man-sized cheques for his
machinery, the average farmer
leaves it out in the weather
(a weekend cruise through any
farming district will show how
hue this comment is).
Machinery-sheds may cost
money, but they are worth their
weight in gold. By cutting un-
necessary depreciation they
repay themselves many times
over.
Sheds need not be elaborate
—just large enough to keep
all machinery under cover, with
a pair of swing-doors wide
enough to allow all machines
to pass through without damag-
ing either machine or shed.
In their endeavor to cut costs,
many farmers are setting aside
some time each month for the
overhaul and cleaning of their
machines. This is time well
spent. It need not take long
either, once the programme is
under way ; half a day every
now and then is enough.
Once ploughing or harvesting
is over, a tractor overhaul is
worth while. Start with an oil-
change, clean the plugs and
change the water in the
radiator. It pays, too, to
wash-down the tractor just like
your car. This stops earth
from rusting the metal where it
cakes on and sets hard. Acid
soiis in particular will rust metal
if they are in contact for long.
All machinery should be
greased if it is to be laid-up.
A few pumps with the grease-
gun will clean dust out of. the
grease-nipples, put a film of
clean grease between the metal
surfaces, and stop rust from
forming. Tyres should be
pumped-up to prevent cracking
on the sides of the walls. It’s
a good idea to disconnect the
tractor-battery. Shorts can
cause fires and tractors are
costly items.
If a machinery-shed is used
as a fuel-storehouse the fuel
should be stored at one end,
away front the machinery.
Should fire break out, it will be
easier to control with a few
buckets of sand and a hand
fi re-extinguisher. F i re-extin-
guishers cost money, but are
cheaper than a tractor or
header.
Cu 11 iva t i n g-implements
should be hosed to remove all
caked dirt; then greased, and
the disks or tines rubbed-ov'er
with a greasy rag. Besides pre-
venting rust, this makes traction
easier when they are used again.
Smooth surfaces rip into the
ground easier than rough and
rusted tines or disks.
Seed-drills, headers, com-
bines or fertiliser-spreaders
should be cleaned to stop any
dirt or fertiliser caking on the
metal. Rust on some of the
moving parts of these imple-
ments can cause costly delays
when the machines are next
used. Besides, these implements
are among the most costly
on the farm, so care here
means money saved.
Some of the heaviest depreci-
ation occurs with saws,
mowers and suchlike. The sap
from a lush crop of lucerne
will quickly pit and rust the
blades of a mower. Leave the
sap of a green gum-log on a
circular-saw and you invite
trouble and cost. All these parts
should be cleaned, and then
smeared with a fine coat of
grease. Next time they are
used they’ll be shiny and free
from rust.
Most years farmers buy new
rubber cushions for their
tractor-seats. Rubber seats will
last much longer if properly
cared for. After use, shake out
the dust which builds-up and
wears away the smooth rubber
surface. After they have been
cleaned, wrap them in clean
paper and store them away
from the light. When un-
wrapped, they will be as good
as new.
Most of these jobs take only
a few minutes each, and they
don’t all come along at .the
one time. But those few
minutes' spent each month are
one Way of cutting costs that,
threaten to cripple many farm-
ing enterprises.
Sheepdogs in Brisbane
“B-herd”: There’s a man
just off-centre of the floodlit
ring, but 200,000 eyes for the
most part ignore him ; they’re
fixed instead on a black-and-
white dog, a long-haired kelpie-
cross, motionless there in the
great green saucer.
Under the stands a white gate
opens, four Border-cross sheep
are driven out to the centre,
and in a second there’s the cast
complete—man, dog and sheep.
Way back, muted, a spruiker
bangs the boxing-drum and
croaks a challenge; but here
100,000 people are poised,
silent, watching those specks in
the loneliness.
The sheep knot, their heads
up; they’ve never seen a
stranger muster. They do not
see the crouched kelpie, but
stare at the man, who’s moving
now towards a little white gate
in the distance. They mistrust
everything; they stamp as the
man passes. He opens the
distant gate and stands to one
side.
How many of the spectators
saw the sign or heard the
whistle of command?
A flash of movement; the
sheep whirl, see the dog, and
go for anywhere. How can a
man and a dog communicate so
completely? A Wave of the
man’s hand, a flutter of a
wrist, a swift rush of air
through the teeth. The dog
heard it like this:
“Get on the wheel of those
four mutts, Maggie, wheel ’em
in away from that mob o’
people, fetch ’em quietly now
to this gate, steady now, at a
walk . .. . Look out! Watch
that brute! Bring ’em through.
No, not you! Now wait. Right,
now take them over to that
ramp over there and hold ’em
till I get there . . .”
And so on. Dog-shorthand.
Crouched, one eye on the sheep,
the other on the man, that little
pearler never muffed a semi-
colon. A joy to watch ; a privi-
lege to know that for a second
one’s mind had touched the
frail loop of thought, so near
tangible, between the man and
that little pearler of a black-
and-white dog.
, “Gooya”: A long-woolled
sheepskin, applied- where
warmth is needed for a sick
animal, makes a good
“poultice.”


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
Though daffodils, blooming in August,
herald the spring in Sydney, it is not
until the azaleas burst into blossom in
the Botanic Gardens and the wistaria at
Vaucluse starts its short and beautiful
flowering that we Sydneysiders really
believe that spring is here. The weather
confirms that belief just at the moment,
and, despite such gloomy topics as the
new virus (formerly the common cold),
the police, the decline of the film industry
and the blackout (reminding us of those
dreadful post-war years), one cannot help
getting some touch of that old spring
feeling and taking a serious interest in
the new swim-suit showings.
☆ ☆ ☆
Of course, the opening of the Royal
Ballet season was the social event of
the week. There was an atmosphere of
intense excitement at the Empire Theatre
on Thursday night, and all the balleto-
manes of, Sydney seemed to be there.
Among those who wore full-length
evening-dresses were Lady Tait; the
Premier’s wife, Mrs. J. J. Cahill, and
daughter Margaret, whose beautiful
white-satin gown was embroidered with
rosebuds ; and Dame Ninette de Valois,
whose blue organza dress was appliqued
with white lace, and who made a charm-
ing and impressively confident curtain-
speech. There was a goodly sprinkling
of young girls in the audience (always a
particularly nice feature of ballet first-
nights), among them Helen-Ruth Service
and Diane Davidson, with their mothers,
Mrs. Don Service and Mrs. H. Selby
Davidson.
☆ ☆ *
“Mostra /Minima” is the latest new
name for a Sydney Art Show. It means
an exhibition of small paintings, and
such a Mostra was opened at the
Bissietta Gallery during the week by Mrs.
Zeev Dover, wife of the Consul for
Israel. Mrs. Dover, who looked very
smart in black with red shoes and hand-
bag arid whose red “headache band”
showed attractively through her black
fringe, is herself a painter, and has one
work, “Sunset, Alice Springs,” on show,
but not for sale, as she wishes to take
back all her paintings of Australia to
Israel when her husband’s term of office
is over. Mrs. Noel Vincent was one of
the viewers at this Mostra, and it was
interesting to note that she is not at all
anxious to take wing again, at least not
for the moment. “I have seen more
sunshine during the past two weeks in
Australia than I saw in three months' in
Europe,” she commented.
Lf V V
Sir Cuthbert Ackroyd, who is chair-
man of the Central Council of the Vic-
toria League, told some amusing stories
at the reception given in his honor by
the Lord Mayor (Aid. H. F. Jensen) and
the Lady Mayoress. Sir Cuthbert, a
former Lord Mayor of London, said he
had never fully realised the importance
of that position till he heard a choir-boy
singing:
All things bright and beautiful, *
All creatures great and small,
All things wise and wonderful,
The Lord Mayor made them all.
Lillian Coughlan is at present appear-
ing in the Independent’s exciting produc-
tion “Murder Story,” by Ludovic
Kennedy. This absorbing English play,
dealing with capital punishment, caused
a sensation when it was first presented in
London. Lillian Coughlan is the wife
of Robert McDarra, recently elected
president of the workshop-committee of
the Independent Theatre. In the play
she taker the part of Daisy Tanner.
Photo by Montgomery Dunne.
Lady Woodward presided at the lun-
cheon which the Victoria League gave
in honor of Sir Cuthbert Ackroyd the
following day at David Jones’ Restaurant.
Lady Woodward is president of the
league in N.S.W. ; the chairman of the
league, Mrs. H. B. Farncomb, introduced
Sir Cuthbert, who brought messages from
Princess Alice, Duchess of Athlone, and
to the Young Contingent from Princess
Margaret. He said that membership
of the league had increased from 14,000
in 1947 to 35,000 today, and added that
as more and more members of the
British Commonwealth became independ-
ent the work of the Victoria League must
quicken. Mrs. Bertram Wright proposed
a vote of thanks to Sir Cuthbert for his
entertaining and stimulating address.
a a ☆
Robert Helpmann was the speaker at
the September Literary Luncheon in aid
of the Society for Crippled Children held
during the week, and although he said
he had a horror of speaking, his lively
anecdotes, dramatised with consummate
art, were most delightful to listen to.
Speaking of the dedicated attitude of
English audiences towards ballet, for
instance, he spoke of an American who
visited London at the time of the “buzz-
bombs.” During a performance of
“Swan Lake” the visitor heard the
approaching buzz of the bomb, then the
silence which was the sign to take cover,
then a tremendous explosion as the doors
of the theatre shattered, the building
rocked and the windows blew out. “This
is it!” he cried—and the woman sitting
beside him said, “ Shush!” Mr. Help-
mann was welcomed by Mr. Roger
Fitzhardinge and Mrs. John Barriskill.
The president of the committee, Mrs.
Dundas Allans proposed the vote of
thanks.
* ☆ ☆
One of the pleasant functions of the
week was the Sunday luncheon given by
Air-Vice-Marshal C. D. Candy and Mrs.
Candy at Briar Cliff, Lapstone, in honor
of Sir Basil Embry and Lady Embry, who
spent the weekend at this R.A.A.F. head-
quarters. Lady Embry said at this lun-
cheon that,their property, 200 miles south
of they have had for nearly
two years —is called Ardua, and added
that it was very appropriate, not only
because it commemorates the Air Force
motto, “Per ardua ad astra” -(“through
hardship to the stars”), but also because
it really was hard work.
Among the guests who strolled on
the terrace revelling in the fine, clear,
sunny mountain air were Chief Justice
Sir Kenneth Street, Major-General I. N.
Dougherty and Mrs. Dougherty, Mr. and
Mrs. L. McFadyen, Mayor of Penrith
Aid. Spies and Mrs. Spies, and Mayor
of the Blue Mountains Aid. Murphy and
Mrs. Murphy.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Russian-born ’cellist Edmund
Kurtz was entertained at a cocktail-party
by members of the Sydney Symphony
Orchestral Committee early in the week,
and was welcomed by Sir John Tivey
and Mrs. A. "H. Chartres. Mr. Kurtz
lives in England in a centuries-old
cottage in a part of Sussex where street-
lighting is still forbidden and the in-
habitants have to at night with a
torch. His Australian wife, formerly
Barbara - Bellair, of Riddell’s Creek
(Vic.), will join him next month in Aus-
tralia. They have two sons, Antony
(18), who is a student at Cambridge, and
16-. year-old John, who is at Harrow.
☆ * *
The first major function of Air Force
Week was the Air Force Association
Ball at the Trocadero on Friday night,
when 20 debs, were presented to the
Governor, Sir Eric Woodward, and Lady
Woodward. The debs, were all daughters
of ex-Air Force members of the associa-
tion, and they were escorted by Sydney
University Squadron cadet-officers. The


guests were received by Group-Captain
and Mrs. J. L. Waddy, and Mr. and Mrs.
R. M. Levenger. Included among the
guests were Air-Chief-Marshal Sir Basil
Embry and Lady Embry (Sir Basil is the
guest-of-honor during Air Force Week),
the Rev. E. A. Pitt and Mrs. Pitt, Air-
Vice-Marshal and T r rs. C: D. Candy,
Air-Commodore and Mrs. G. W. Pearce.
MELBOURNE.
Five-hundred guests were invited to the
University to inspect the handsome new
buildings which were the result of the
University Centenary Appeal. The
Governor and Lady Brooks were wel-
6omed by the Chancellor, Mr. Justice
Dean, and Mrs. Dean, and the acting
Vice-Chancellor, Professor Sir Arthur
Amies, and Lady Amies.
His Excellency wore academic robes —
a black gown trimmed with gold and
scarlet, and a scarlet-lined bonnet; Lady
Brooks wore a sapphire-blue tweed suit
with a collar of matching blue fox, and
a tiny hat in the same shade. A small
leaf-hat in moss-green topped the black
suit worn by Mrs. Dean ; Lady Amies
chose a deep-blue wool suit and match-
ing hat trimmed with white.
Among the guests was a former
Chancellor, Sir John Latham ; Lady
Grimwade, whose special interest was the
Russell Grimwade School of Bio-
chemistry ; Lady Clunies-Ross, Lady
Lowe, Sir John Jungwirth, Professor and
Mrs. Boyce Gibson, Sir Peter Mac-
Callum and Mrs. R. Featherstone.
■Cz ☆ *
i The premiere of the Elizabethan
Trust’s production of “Lohengrin” at
Her Majesty’s was quite a glamorous
occasion, the frocking the best seen for
some time. Victorian chairman of the
Elizabethan Theatre Trust Mr. Aubrey
Gibson was accompanied by his wife,
whose heavy cream dace frock was worn
under a rose-pink satin theatre-coat. A
full-length rose-pink satin gown, draped
into a slight train, was worn by singer
Glenda Raymond. Gertrude Johnson
wore grey satins, Mrs. A. T. Smithers a
formal gown of aqua-blue delustered
satin. Mrs. Dorothy Gitsham’s frock of
black Italian silk-straw had pink roses
caught in front under a pleated swathed
drape, which finished in a large bow.
Mrs. Keith Hattam’s French gown of
white tulle sparkled with diamentes.
With Dr. and Mrs. Ray Shatin were Thai
Consul Mr. H. I. Fader and Mrs. Fader,
she wearing a white Arctic-fox stole with
her dress of gold satin brocade.
v xy v-
University Arts-graduate Alison May
Morton Lemmon and Commerce-
graduate Alan William Jarman were
married at Wesley. College Chapel, she
the daughter of Dr. and Mrs. W. Morton
Lemmon, of North Balwyn, and he the
only son of Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Jarman,
of Pascoe Vale. The bride chose a gown
of magnolia delustred satin, the skirt
featuring a bell-front and peacock-hem.
Her veil was caught with a small pearl
coronet, and she carried a casual
cluster of cream magnolias. The bride-
groom’s sister, Mrs. W. A. Dott, and
Beryl Challenger attended -the bride.
They both wore short frocks of oyster-
tinted taffeta with modified peacock-
line ; their tiny hats were of the same
material encrusted with mother-of-pearl
beads ; their accessories were rose-pink,
and they carried posies of mixed flowers.
Reception was at Ciro's.
Melbourne has given a big welcome-
home to soprano Sylvia Fisher, who is
singing the roles of Ellen Orford in
“Peter Grimes" and Leonora in “Fidelio"
with the Elizabethan Opera Company.
Sylvia left nursing-training to become a
pupil of Adolf Spivakovsky at the Melba
Conservatorium; when she went over-
seas she quickly established herself as
one of the finest singers at Covent
Garden. Her London home is named
Bologna-in-Bayswater, the first part in
honor of the native city of her husband,
Signor Gardini.
The realisation that Christmas is not
so far ahead as you may think came
with the announcement of plans for the
Christmas Fair organised by the English
Speaking Union. To raise funds for their
stall the Younger Members Group held
a dance at the Toorak home of Mr. and
Mrs. N. C. Kitson, whose daughter
Diana is a member. Group-president
John Koschade and hon. secretary Jean
Cameron received the 70 guests, who
danced on the patio! Among them were
Diana Kitson (wearing a blue silk frock
scattered with red and white 'rosebuds),
Jean Cameron (her white cottons printed
in a Parisian-cafe design), Margaret,
Daley (in green crystal-faille skirt and
black angora sweater), Pamela Middleton
(dark blue satin), Mrs. William Banks
(light-blue velvet), twin sisters Judith and
Elizabeth John, Helen Davey, Rion
Jennings, Christine Duckett, Tony
Carpenter, Ron Thompson, John Ryan
and Gordon McFadden.
Shopping - excursions, and finalising
plans for her wedding, have kept Janet
Fairley in town for some weeks. Janet,
daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Ronald Fairley,
of Corowa (N.S.W.), will marry Maurice
Mead at St. Andrew’s Church, Corowa,
on September 27. She has been staying
with her fiance’s parents, Mr. and Mrs.
Bruce Mead, of Glen Waverley. On her
wedding-day she will be attended by Mrs.
Bill Cameron, her sisters Mary and Ann,
and Susan Mead. Jon Low will be best
man. Parties, have been given for the
prospective bride and ’groom by Mrs.
Bill Cameron, Mrs. Low and Mrs. John
Teague.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Little Theatre was packed for the
first night of Jean Anouilh’s “Dinner
With the Family.” Mr. and Mrs. John
Casson and their son Anthony were there
to see daughter Laura Jane Casson appear
in the role of the young girl Isobelle. A
large party included Mr. and Mrs. Earl
Daum (she wearing a short mink coat
over a black frock), Mr. and Mrs. Eric
Lampe and Professor and Mrs. Maurice
Belz. Mr. and Mrs. Massey Burnside
were accompanied by Mrs. Rupert
Downes and her daughter, Mrs. Jim
Camphell (they never miss a first night at
the. Little). Mr. W. H. McKechnie,
actress June Ciyne, Mr. and Mrs. John
Heath, Mrs. Len Voss Smith and her
daughter Julia, Mr. and Mrs. George
Fairfax, Dorothy Graham, and Mrs.
Jean Davies were others at the opening.
☆ it *
A happy dance at the L.T.A.A. club-
rooms at Kooyong celebrated the 21st
birthday of Peter, only son of Mr. and
Mrs. John Chaldjian, of Toorak. Tall
silver candelabra with pink candles were
set oh the supper-tables, the ballroom was
gay with festoons of pink and white
balloons, and tall bowls of spring flowers
in varying hues were also used for decora-
tions. In receiving fhe guests with her
husband Mrs. Chaldjian wore a cafe-au-
lait Chantilly-lace full-skirted gown
which carried a sash of coffee-toned satin
knotted at the side to fall in long ends
to the hem of the skirt. Peter’s grand-
mother, Mrs. E. O. Stewart, Mr. and
Mrs. R. V. Vroland, Mr. and Mrs. John
Shaw, Mr. and Mrs. Colin Russell and
Mr. and Mrs. Carlos Gordon were among
the guests.
Young friends of the guest-of-honor
included Ann Curtis, whose smart short
frock ■ of black taffeta featured a large
bustle-bow; Gillian Syme, whose pale-
pink lace frock was trimmed with narrow
black-velvet ribbon; Lois Coles, her
choice peacock-green faille ; Judy Evans,
who teamed a strawberry-pink velvet
skirt and a gold-embroidered black
sweater; Virginia Finlay, in scarlet
Chantilly-lace frock which had a slightly
ballooned skirt; Diana Gillespie, whose
gown of white taffeta was patterned in
pink roses; Taffy Watson, her frock of
lolly-pink pleated-organza; Jill Taylor,
whose pastel-pink faille frock had a skirt-
drape and bow of deeper-pink taffeta ;
and Kenlyn Judd, who wore white satin
brocades.


should have been on the stage.
They just said, “Merry Christ-
mas, Pop,” and drank as though
the roof wasn’t going to fall in
any minute.
And as a matter of fact it
didn’t. Uncle Fred just said
“Damn’ good beer, that. Better
than last time.” \
He emptied the glass and
said, “Come on. We can’t
stand here all day. Get the
next one inter yer.”
One of the boys said he’d
seen a couple of New Austra-
lians hanging around the pub
yard, and he hoped .Old
Maggie was all right. That
was enough to start Uncle Fred
worrying, so he put his money
on the bar and went out to
have a look.
And his second beer was
half-gin, too. The third one
got laced when he was looking
for a bit of grit in his other
son’s eye.
“Don't know what ye’d do
without me,” he said. “Get
yerselves lost. Get grit in yer
eyes. Must’ve been only a bit
o’ dust. There’s nothin’ there
now.”
He was wrong. There was
the beginning of a worried
look. And when he’d had the
third drink, and said, “Come
on —time ter be gettin’ along,”
the worried look was there for
everybody to see. We weren’t
worried, but we were certainly
surprised. He wished us
“Merry Christmas” as though
he’d only drunk straight beer,
and they didn’t look very
happy as they followed him
out.
We were all laughing about
it, and wondering what they
were up to, when they came
back again, looking pleased.
“What room is ut?” they
asked the barmaid.
“Number seven,” she said.
“How far’d yer get?”
“Onlyi ter the railway-line,”
they said. “Good stuff that.”
Some of us went out to have
a look, and saw them carrying
him up the back-stairs. He
was snoring as they carried
him. Then they came down
and got into the sulky and
drove off to the produce-store,
and came # back with half-a-
bag of chaff. They unyoked
Old Maggie, and put her in
one of the garages with the
chaff to keep her happy.
Then they came back into
the bar. They reckoned they’d
have another couple of beers
before they went. We asked
them where they were going,
but they wouldn’t tell us. They
said to the barmaid, “Give us
a ring if he wakes-up,” and
they went out the front way.
The barmaid told us they
were going to the nurses’ party
up at the hospital. That gave
us something to talk about
until closing-time.
doesn’t mean
much in our pub. They
shut the front-doors, but don’t
bother about the back one, and
there’s always a bit of a mob
in the back-parlor until pretty
late, especially on Christmas
Eve.
So there were plenty of us
to spot Uncle • Fred when he
came staggering down swear-
ing to himself; and the bar-
maid rang the hospital.
By the time the boys came
tearing in, he had Old Maggie
back in the shafts. He wanted
to know who put him in the pub
room, and they said he’d
fainted on the way home, and
they’d brought him back and
got the doctor to him. They
said the doctor told them it was
nothing serious, but if he still
felt when he came
around, the' best thing would
be to give him a couple of
beers and take him home.
They said the doctor reckoned
he’d have headache and a
dry mouth, and beer was the
best cure.
We could hardly keep from
laughing at their innocent faces
when they were telling him
these lies, but he swallowed the
story, and gave them a few bob
to get him the beer.
This time they only got as
far as the post-office. So Old
Maggie was unyoked again,
and Uncle Fred put back in
room seven, and the boys went
back to the party. They
reckoned he ought to keep for
the rest of the night.
Room seven has a single-bed
and a double-bed in it, and
when they came back from
the party they both piled into
the double-bed and went to
sleep.
When they woke-up the old
man was gone. So they came
tearing down the back-stairs
just in time to . see him getting
into the sulky.
“Hey,” they said. “What’s
the big idea? We been lookin’
after yer while yer were crook,
an’ now yer goin’ home with-
out us.”
“Not goin’ home,” Uncle
Fred said. “Goin* up ter see
the quack.”
“Yer can’t see him now.
Ut’s Christmas Day. He’ll be
in church.”
“That’s right. Seein’ as
we’re in town, why don’t we
all go ter church? An’ see
him later.”
“I’m too crook ter go ter
church,” Uncle Fred said.
“The quack said if yer crook
we gotta give yer beer.”
“Yer done that, an’ I’m still
crook.”
“Maybe we didn’t give yer
enough beer.”
Uncle Fred thought about
this. He thought maybe they
were right.
“Stay there,” they said.
“We’ll fix ut.”
They fixed it with four
schooners, half - gin. They
didn’t even get out of the pub
yard. They unyoked Old
Maggie again, put Uncle Fred
to bed again, and went to
church with two of the nurses.
They they went swimming
with the two nurses down at
the weir. Uncle Fred was still
out to it when they got back
late in the afternoon, so they
went to tea at the hospital.
Tt was on again when they
A came back to the pub after
tea, and Uncle Fred was
inclined to think the beer cure
was no good.
But they talked him into it,
and he was flat on his back
before he even got the harness
on Old Maggie. She was very
fed-up with the whole business.
You could see it in her eye.
She’d never been yoked-up so
many times and gone nowhere
ip her whole life before.
By this time the whole town
knew what was going on, and
we all reckoned they were
being a bit hard on Uncle Fred.
He hadn’t had anything to eat
since lunch - time the day
before.
So we told them, and it wor-
ried them a bit, but they said
they couldn’t do anything
about it while he was un-
conscious. They said they’d
feed him as soon as he woke-
up.
And they went off again. A
couple; of us followed them,
and saw them pick-up the two
nurses and go walking up
along the river-bank.
So we kept an eye on Uncle
Fred, but he didn’t wake-up.
He didn’t wake-up until Box-
ing Day. And when he did,
the boys were asleep after their
late night, and it was too early
for any of us to spot him
yoking-up Old Maggie again
and heading for home. The
first one to spot him was the
gatekeeper at the railway-
crossing, and he rang the pub,
after shutting the gates against
him first.
So the boys dressed in a
hurry, and tore along to the
railway-crossing, and tried to
persuade him that he needed
more beer.
But he wouldn’t be in it.
He said the quack was mad,
and that the best cure for his
trouble was To go home and
have a good feed of steak-and-
eggs and a good sleep.
They couldn’t talk him out
of it, so they had to climb into
the sulky with him. The gate-
keeper says that when they got
in, they iit-up their cigars, and
drove off in a cloud of smdke,
without looking back.
There’s real trouble out at
Uncle Fred’s place now,
though. The boys want to
marry the two nurses from the
hospital, and Old Alec, who’s
got the next farm, says you can
hear him roaring even against
the wind.


CORNERED
KOALAS
By JACK LUSBY
What’s going to happen to the
koalas surviving on Sydney’s
Pittwater peninsula? Not only
surviving but thriving in a last-
ditch stand against the axe and bull-
dozer. _ '
Their habitat is an area of about 10
square-miles, much of it virgin bush.
It holds every variety of gum the little
bloke likes to feed on. But his trees
are as vulnerable as the rest. Even his
favorite grey-gum is falling before the
onslaught of the patio and the sun-
deck.
From Newport to Palm Beach and
from the sea-beaches across to quiet Pitt-
water the tubby acrobats are seen so
often that all kinder folk here have put
them on the same footing as vagrant
puppies. They are equally blase in the
presence of. children. And they cope
with four-legged inquisitors—very few
succumb to dogs or cats. Certainly no
adults. The very great strength-in his
limbs and claws has contributed to the
koala’s survival in this settled area.
Cornered, he can be as savage a surgeon
as the kangaroo.
Anyone hereabouts with a grey-gum
growing in his backyard is pretty sure
to have regular visits from these beasties:
their beat seems as regular as a George
Street cop’s. And said resident is equally
sure to hear their elephantine snorting
and banshee-wailing at night.
A koala’s ordinary conversational
cough is a most astonishing sound.
You’d expect it came, at the very least,
from a rhino, in torment or a mating
hippopotamus. Visitors hearing it close-
up for the first time, particularly if
taking a nocturpal short-cut through the
local bush, are''prone to shed their skins.
Have often watched an old fellow in
our own grey-gum giving vent to his
feelings. High out on a spindly fork
in the late afternoon he wakes, yawns,
stretches and scratches himself. Turns
his head to all points of the compass
sniffing the breeze, letting it ruffle his ears.
Climbs out to an even more fragile fork,
settles his broad rump comfortably in
in, and retains a casual grip with one
hand. With the other pulls down the
nearest bunch of young leaves and takes
a tentative mouthful. A sort of hair-of-
the-dog. Then a few deep breaths and
back goes his head, nose pointing sky-
wards ; open comes the big mouth, and
he’s off —putting all he's got into the
most unspellable noise this scribe has
encountered.'
/"\N tours of arboreal inspection koalas
spend a good deal of time on the
ground and cover some formidable dis-
tances. They amble along casually
enough, and when making use of streets
and roadways for easy walking, keep to
one side, untroubled by ordinary traffic.
When really startled they adopt a canter-
ing gait that would be worth a few grand
to Disney.
Saw Mum Koala surrounded by young
riding-school pupils on ponies. Touchy
because of Junior clinging jockey-fashion
to her back, she headed for the rough.
The low strand of a wire-fence unhorsed
Junior, and about 30ft. beyond the fence
Mum realised what had happened. In
a scatter of twigs and dust she executed
a slapstick turnabout and galloped back
to the fence. Junior regained his perch,
and Mum again headed for treedom.
A mericans, always suckers for an
oddity, have had the little chaps
described to them as alone being well
worth a visit down under. They’re
expected to join a sort of koala cult.-
And in truth the sight of a real live
koala leaves many callers from the U.S.
speechless. No mean feat. So the follow-
ing conversation, conducted in accents
strongly trans-Pacific, enlivened my bus-
ride to the city one morning. The bus
was passing a Newport park, I was on
the top deck, and the voices came from
behind me:
“Hi, Mom! Mom! Lookit down
there runnin’ along! What is it, Mom?”
“Where, Honey?”
“Down there —quick, Mom!”
“Why, it’s only a bear, Honey.”
TX/'ell, only a bear or not, he’s faced
with tragedy. He’s isolated on the
tip of a peninsula with his food-supply
in jeopardy ; pressed by suburbia south
of him, and cut off by water on the other
three sides. He can’t swim out of it.
He’s got nowhere to go. A little Dunkirk
with no rescue.
The koala’s only hope of escaping
extinction in this redoubt is some dis-
crimination on our part in tree-cutting.
Some instruction to home-builders in
tree-recognition and koala habits. Vary-
ing of individual house-design where
necessary to allow koala trees to stand.
And making parts of the area real
sanctuaries. A faded notice nailed to a
tree doesn’t make a sanctuary —the
felled trees nearby laugh it out of court.
Nothing impossible or even difficult is
called for. What about it?
HOW. TO COOK RICE
T learnt the hard way, when rice was
our only food, just how it should be
cooked. Ask any one-time p.-0.-w. what
he thought of badly-cooked rice and what
it could do to empty bellies after a hard
day’s work. »
I was made foreman ( hancho) of a
working-party of 80-odd p.-0.-w., and
had to cook the gang’s midday meal of
rice on the job. Luck came my way
when a friendly Jap hancho showed me
how his compatriots cook their staple
diet.
A coke brazier glowing dully, with the
boiler sitting nicely over it (not on it),
eight parts of water to five of rice (well
washed, of course), and cold water with
the rice. Then engage yourself in other
activities for just 35 minutes; back then
promptly, and with a long wooden paddle
dig a hole down the centre to the bottom
and watch the last few millimetres of
moisture evaporate into steam. Then
off with the boiler before any burning
odors arise.
Turn the rice out on to a suitable
wooden tray and fluff it up with paddle,
bat or spoon. Not another complication,
frill or fiddle-de-dee. Dispense into indi-
vidual rice-bowls and watch the troops
eat it. Every grain separate from its
neighbors, and delicious.
One reservation, though: if the rice
is “milling” rice—a hard grain—use more
water.
NORQUE.


to have had any clear idea what their
book was to be about. 7
The traveller who goes for a short
visit to a new country just to look
about him, with no particular purpose,
has not much chance of seeing any-
thing that other travellers haven’t
already described. These authors need
not have had that disadvantage. They
went to New' Guinea to make a film,
and that is what their book should
have been about: how do you make a
film in New Guinea?
The making of any film is an uproari-
ous comedy; and judging by the few
tantalising glimpses they give of their
film-making, such as the time the “wild”
boar refused to charge them and they
had to massage its legs, Beth-Dean and
Victor Carell had no lack of lively
material. But they give only the briefest
glimpses of the film; they don’t even
say what it was all about.
So, with some slight emphasis on
their other special interests of dancing,
music and folklore, they give essen-
tially a tourist’s picture of New Guinea:
familiar in the main, but enlivened by
the photographs and by bits of exotic
information: the words pf a native
“calypso” song; a native walking by
with a torch of fireflies; the flute-music
where the male flute “marries” the
female flute; the tribe that, rather like
the Chinese classical opera, has only
one tune for all its songs; the charming
“kanana” dance of courtship where you
sit down and roll your foreheads
together; a pleasant evening when they
entertained the natives by singing them
folksongs from all over the world . . .
light, scattered stuff, but pleasant
enough.
Stanley of Africa
Henry Morton Stanley, born 1841,
to Miss Elizabeth Parry, of Denbigh,
Northern Wales, was baptised John
Rowlands, and hurried into a work-
house at four, his mother finding him
inconvenient—thus promisingly begins
The Man who Presumed, by the
American author Byron Farwell (Long-
mans).
At 15 he kicked a brutal workhouse
usher in the face and escaped, to be
Strained through the reluctant hands of
relatives to a job in a Liverpool haber-
dashery, and then in a butchery, whence
he shipped on a windjammer as cabin-
boy; deserted in New Orleans; was
befriended by a businessman called
Stanley, and, since this was the first
kindness he had known, took his bene-
factor’s name.
The benefactor having gone on'a
journey and lost him, the newly named
Stanley took other jobs, and then
enlisted to fight for the South in the
American Civil War until he was cap-
tured after, the bloody battle of
Shiloh, released, having agreed to fight
for the Yankees, came down with
dysentery, was discharged, went home
to his mother’s pub in Wales, was told
by his mother to get out, served in
sailing-ships, was wrecked, joined the
United States Navy, deserted, explored
the Platte River in a flat-bottomed boat,
went on an exploring trip of the Orient,
was imprisoned and beaten in Turkey
and, returning to America, became
special correspondent for the Missouri
“Democrat.” Aged 26.
Having reported the Hancock expe-
dition against the Indians, he put to
James Gordon Bennett, publisher of the
New York “Herald,” the proposition
that he should represent the “Herald”
with the British expeditionary force
against Abyssinia; was first with the
news of the fall of Magdala; then
Bennett sent him to Crete, where he
almost got married. He reported for
his paper all over the Mediterranean,
covered a rebellion in Spain and
carved his name on a wall in
Persepolis . . .
In 1869 Bennett, jnr., called him to
Paris, told him he thought Livingstone
was not dead as reported, and told
him to find Livingstone, drawing £lOOO
at a time until he succeeded. Far-
well’s account of Stanley’s arrival in
Zanzibar and details of his organisa-
tion of the-expedition show Stanley’s
thoroughness, as the account of the
famous expedition itself demonstrates
his courage and resourcefulness: the
reader is immediately aware of a man
who, like Ulysses, “was never at a
loss”; indeed, his worst problem was
what to say to Livingstone when he
found him.
The reasons for this have been care-
fully planted in the foregoing narra-
tive: during the Abyssinian expedition
Stanley had been high-hatted by British
officers he had presumed to address
without an introduction; after a rail-
way journey in Egypt he heard through
thin hotel walls the comments upon’
him of two young Englishmen he had
ventured to instruct upon the passing
countryside:—
“Had I been a leper or a pariah,
I could not have been more foully
and slanderously abused”.... Stanley
had committed one of the cardinal
sins of the educated man by display-
ing his knowledge too ostentatiously.
And so, when he met Livingstone
at Ujiji:—
I would have run to him, only I
was a coward in the presence of such
a mob—would have embraced him,
only, he being an Englishman, I did
not know how he would receive me ;
so I did what moral cowardice and
pride suggested was the best
thing—walked deliberately to him,
took off my hat and said:
“Dr. Livingstone, I presume?”
“Yes,” said he, with a kind smile,
lifting his cap slightly . . .
And so Stanley fades out of that
unwritten history which is the property
of the nursery, the vaudeville-stage, the
comic reference —the history of legend,
the longest-lived and widest-known
part of the human story.
Yet Stanley’s finest achievements
came after this. Having been feted
and disbelieved in London, and having
incurred, because of his popularity, the
hatred of Bennett, jnr., who had begun
and financed his expedition, and having
been admired for his coolness as a
correspondent in the Ashanti campaign
by none less than Sir Garnet Wolseley,
he managed to unite the London
“Telegraph” and New York “Herald”
to finance an expedition that would
settle Livingstone’s contention that the
Lualaba River ran into the Nile.
No boys’ book of adventure could
match the incident and excitement of
this expedition, which began in Zanzi-
bar and ended, not in Egypt, since the
northern-running Lualaba wound west-
ward into the Congo, but on the west
coast of Africa, so that the expedition
took Stanley right across equatorial
Africa. On his way he circumnavi-
NESTING TIME
Oh never in this hard world was such an
absurd
Charming utterly disarming little bird,
The mossy green, the sunlit honey eater
That darts from scribbly-gum to banksia-
tree
And lights upon the head of my small
daughtery
It must decide, for men and birds alike,
As pick-pick-pick it goes with its sharp
beak,
If so much trust is possible in Nature;
And back it darts- to that safe banksia-
tree,
Then swoops on my own head, the brave
wild creature.
It thinks it must'have -hair to line its nest
And hair will have, and it will chance
the rest ;
And up and down my neck and then my
daughter’s
Those prickly black feet run, that tugging
beak, -
And loud like wind it whirrs its green
wing-feathers.
Then take your choice from me or those
fair tresses
You darting bird too shy for our caresses ;
There’s just this gap in Nature and in man
Where birds can perch on heads and pull
out hair
And if you want to chance it, well you
can.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


A HANDFUL of PENNIES
by HAL PORTER
Against a background of the post-defeat chaos of an Oriental country conquered by
Western forces, represented here by Australians, this novel records with devastating
frankness and in a most original style the impact of the two races upon each other.
17/6 (post 7d.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
gated Lake Victoria Nyanza and Lake
Tanganyika, fighting battles on land
and on water; and then most of the
way down the Congo, fighting some-
thing like a battle a day with head-
hunters as each village turned-out its
canoes to trap them with shouts of
“Meat! Meat!” as they passed. They
fought 32 battles in their passage down
the Congo:—
Few professional soldiers have
fought as many battles in a life-
time as had Stanley and his Zanzi-
bar during these past four months.-
Also: —
Of the 359 people who left Baga-
moyo with Stanley three years before,
only 82 returned to Zanzibar with
him. Added to those who came back
were six children born on the expe-
dition Of the 36 women who
started out on the expedition only
twelve returned 173 people,
including 59 of Tippu-Tib’s [the
Arab slave-trader whose help Stanley
had sought] people, had died on the
march. Of' these, 58 were killed in
battles with the natives, 45 were
felled by smallpox, nine starved to
death and 14 were drowned. Ulcers,
typhoid fever, overdoses of opium,
crocodiles and other causes
accounted for the rest.
Stanley, who in the river-battles faced
spears and poison-arrows standing
motionless in the prow of his canoe,
because of the moral effect of this
upon the enemy, was never wounded.
Back in Europe, he managed to
interest King Leopold of the Belgians
in developing the Congo, and returned
to supervise the construction of the
roads that would by-pass the falls and
cataracts around which he had carried
his boat and canoes, and down which
he had lost his best men; and after
five years, wrecked with fever and the
cares of management, and having built
a line of garrisoned stations 1400 miles
up the Congo, with roads and a small
stretch of railroad, and having launched
two steamers on the upper Congo and
three on the lower, he turned over his
responsibilities to Lieut.-Colonel de
Winton and went back to Europe.
Yet even this was not the end of his
adventures; and, perhaps, for struggle
and endurance the greatest of them was
his expedition to rescue Emin Pasha
from Equatoria, where he was menaced,
after the fall of Khartoum, by the
followers of the Mahdi. This time
Stanley crossed Africa in the opposite
direction, from the Congo down to
Zanzibar, and the story of his party’s
sufferings in the Great Forest, 75 per
ttmt. of those who started dying on
the three-year expedition, is among the
World’s finest stories of courage and
accomplishment.
On his return, at the age of 48, he
married (in Westminster Abbey) a
society woman, a “lady artist,” Dorothy
Tennant, and then became a member
of Parliament; travelled and lectured,
“disease-ridden and fever-wasted,” and
died, aged 63, in a London hospital bed,
of pleurisy.
His present biographer may seem,
since most of the adventures can have
only one source (the books of Stanley
himself), to have had an easy job; but
the bibliography he prints is most
formidable. It looks like one of those
cases of hero-worship: Byron Farwell,
says the cover, is an archaeologist, a
veteran of World War II and the
Korean war and Manager of Com-
munity Relations for the Chrysler
Corporation of America.
Reviewed Briefly
Food for Better Performance: R. C.
Hutchinson (Melbourne University
Press). A useful and readable little
book showing the way to eat sensibly
and scientifically. Dr. Hutchinson says:
“Breakfast is the most important meal
of the day and should never be
omitted.” He favors a light lunch and
also approves of “rest-pauses” for
morning- and afternoon-tea: noble
sentiments on which one would say
more, only it is time for afternoon-tea.
* =!} * *
Australian Nature Tales: Leslie Rees
(John Sands Pty., Ltd.). A reprint in
one compact volume of three animal-
stories for children which have proved
very popular in their earlier large illus-
trated editions—“ Shy the Platypus,”
“Aroora the Red Kangaroo” and
“Sarli the Turtle.”
* * * *
The White Roof of Australia: Bill
Beatty (Cassell). Illustrated with
photographs supplied by the N. S. Wales
and Victorian Tourist Bureaus and the
Department of Information, this is
essentially a pictorial guide to the Aus-
tralian ski-grounds which would be of
more interest to overseas readers than
to skiers already familiar with the
areas. It describes the principal ski-
grounds in N. S. Wales, Victoria and
Tasmania and gives a little of their
history and natural-history in oddments
about the Chinese carriers who were
known as “the camels of Kiandra”; the
story of Strzelecki, who burdened the
Australian map with the name of
Kosciusko; the songless cicada and the
grasshopper that changes color; the
Snowy River scheme, etc.
* * * *
Stars of the Southern Heavens: James
Nangle (Angus and Robertson). A
revised and enlarged reprint of the
guide for the amateur astronomer in
Australia first published in 1929. The
revision has been done by Harley
Wood, N. S. Wales Government
Astronomer, and there is an additional
chapter on radio-astronomy by F. J.
Kerr, of the C.5.1.R.0.
*. * * *
A Glimpse of Australia: Frank H.
Johnston (F. H. Johnston Publishing
Co., Sydney). A book of photographs
(many in color) with brief accompany-
ing letterpress, designed chiefly to send
abroad: with everything from Canberra
to koalas. In a list at the back of the
book the picture-captions are trans-
lated into German, Italian and Dutch.
GHOST-CRABS
Ghost-crabs, their fleetness, have made me
Desperate to delineate the norm
Of the effacing creatures. I must
Describe nothing less ephemeral than
dust;
And you who read, must barely hope
to see
A creature, an image, but a mere scrabble
of form.
It is on these sticks of letters, like the legs
Of ghost-crabs scurrying across a page
—Rustling vellum sounds, on a dry
beach —
That your eyes must follow and teach
Themselves the trick of seeing the cage
Of limbs, the bedouin band which drags
Behind horses of sand the eyes on a pole :
The only evident sign betraying a soul.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.


Sewage
Waste Water
Treatment
I
By Americas Leading Designers and Manufacturers
Walker Process Equipment Inc.
Wholly Manufactured in Australia
4r
-V .
i c ■ vSKSft
::rW&r.
m
4
This compact Activated Sludge Package Plant is designed for a population of 10,000 people,
Complete Plants are available for populations of 50 and upwards.
The available range includes:-
CLARIFIERS
FLOCCULATORS
SLUDGE HEATERS
AIR LIFT PtJMPS
ROTARY DISTRIBUTORS
DIFFUSED AIR EQUIPMENT
GRIT HANDLING EQUIPMENT
SELF CLEANING BAR SCREENS
ORE CLASSIFIERS
OIL SEPARATION
OIL EMULSION BREAKERS
OIL COOLANT RECLAMATION
PAPER STOCK SAVE-ALLS
PLATING WASTE TREATMENT
CARBON DIOXIDE PRODUCTION
INDUSTRIAL WASTE THICKENERS
For full details of Walker Process Equipment to suit your own application, write to us today
acivaj
Wa
m
m
0
Manufactured under License by
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY QUEENSLAND, AUSTRALIA
