

The Bulletin
Christmas Holiday Reading
Wednesday, December 24, 1958
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Iteiiisteie<l in Australia foi' transmission by post as a newspaper.
"The compliments of the season, Mrs. Rooney!”


BOOKS BOUGHT
We visit yon in the City and Suburbs
Immediate Cash Payment
Valuations made for Prohate
BW 7874
(After Hours JY 1131)
BERKELOUW
111 King Street, (Between Pitt and
Cawtlereagli Streets), Sydney.
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, 0.P.0., Sydney-
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you —ncciou,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderace
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
SILVER ANKLETS
If anything is rare in Australian
writing it is the clash of silver anklets.
They are worn neither in the outback
nor in Woollomooloo. In fact, about
the only Australian writing where any-
thing like them occurs is Eve Langley's
“The Pea Pickers,” because she wrote
about Italians and Afghan hawkers,
and had that exotic kind of mind, and
some of the short-stories which Mena
Kashmiri Abdullah has written in
collaboration with Ray Mathew.
But silver anklets or their equivalent
are all the way through Span, edited by
Lionel Wigmore for the Canberra
Fellowship of Writers and published by
Cheshire; and if the book can hardly
be said to be all-Australian, being an
anthology of contemporary Asian and
Australian short-stories and verse, with
the anklets (except in Mena Abdul-
lah’s story) sounding from across the
seas in India, Burma, Pakistan,
Malaya and all around there, at least
its publication is an Australian ven-
ture, and Australian readers may hear
a new note in it . . . and a note that,
clear and fresh and sparkling, is singu-
larly attractive.
The story of “The Silver Anklets,”
which first provoked these thoughts, is
first in the book, and is written by
N. J. Dalai, of India, who, as the useful
biographical notes at the end tell us,
was born at Panchgani in 1920 and is
a housewife with three young children.
She reads, cooks, plays chess and writes
short-stories.
It is a simple enough story, and,
were it not for its exotic setting, would
be extremely familiar in its broad out-
line to Western readers. It is the
erring young wife, the Don Juan, the
deceived husband, and the lover’s dash
to escape when the husband comes
home too early from the market. But,
then, it has this exotic quality: —
“Be quiet,” he said furiously to
his mother. “I have bought the
anklets for my wife, and she shall
keep them.” He bent down on
his hands and knees and with his
own hands slipped the anklets over
the small feet. They were a bit
loose, but they looked enchanting,
and the bells tinkled with each
movement. With eyes still demurely
cast down, Bhima shot a triumphant
look at her mother-in-law.
And it has, too, irrespective of the
exotic anklets, though inextricably
entwined with them, a fierce little
moment of hatred and drama, which is
all its own. Bhima has given the
anklets to her lover when he is escap-
ing from her husband, so that he can
pretend he is merely a thief; and he
gives them to his new girlfriend, whom
Bhima, now neglected, sees at the
market-place while her husband is
buying her cheap glass anklets to
replace the silver ones: and what with
losing both her lover and her anklets,
she has a very nasty moment —“She
moved away, dragging Madhu with
her, his hands full of the trashy glass
ornaments. Behind them she could hear
the echoes of laughter, following them
all the way down the road.”
Another of the book’s exotic
moments comes in S. Rajaratnam’s
story “The Tiger,” from Singapore.
The young wife is about to have a
baby, and the tigress is about to have
cubs; and, meeting in the long grass,
they seem almost to recognise, after
the first moment of terror, their mutual
femininity. It is the tiger’s yellow eyes,
not so much fierce as “sullen and fre-
quently bored,” that are memorable
in this story.
Perhaps the most bizarre passage
of all, the richest piece of exotic color,
is in Manas Canyong’s “Shoot to Kill”
from Thailand, where the convicts at
some mysterious camp in the jungle
vary their diet of rice with white
peacocks and other unheard-of deli-
cacies:—
Some had for roasting birds called
gawas or white peacocks, trapped
at the top of one of the high hills.
They used red chillies as baits. The
white peacocks, with their tails
spread out, would strut gaily up to
the chillies and then get trapped.
Sometimes they caught wild frogs as
big as new-born babies . . .
They also ate, incidentally, monkey-
curry.
But “Shoot to Kill,” like “The Silver
Anklets,” and even more so, is not
merely an attractive piece of exotic
color; it is also a very good story. It
is about a convict who falls in love
with a Chinese girl whom, in this
strangely care-free prison, he is able
to meet at her cottage in the village,
and who is also loved by one of the
guards. When, having fought with the
guard, the convict has to take to the
jungle, the narrator, who sympathises
with him in his pretty love-affair, has
orders to hunt him down and shoot
him. It is a wild, remote, bizarre sort
of story; and it is also human and
humane.
And that, beyond the exotic flavor,
is really the principal attraction —
and merit—of these stories. They are
simple, human and, very often,
humorous.
“His Spouse,” by “Zawgyi,” of
Burma, is the comedy of a lazy hus-
band who thought he would become
a monk, until his wife made him
jealous by threatening to go oft' with
another man. “Of Cocks and Kings,”
by Alejandro R. Roces, of the Philip-
pines, is a comedy about cock-fighting
and an inveterate gambler. “The
Postmaster,” by Eknath Easwaran,
another Indian story, is a lightly
amusing, inconclusive little sketch of
the village postmaster who was terri-
fied of a telegram. Mochtar Lubis’s
“The Lotteries of Haji Zakaria,” from
Indonesia, is the comi-tragedy of a
rich man who hoarded-up his lottery-
tickets and eventually, when his busi-
ness failed, died of grief when some-
one pointed out to him how much
money he had wasted on them.
“Defeat,” by Mumtaz Shireen, of
Pakistan, is the pathos of a staunch
man defeated by old age. “The Man
with the Evil Eye,” by “Tambimuttu,”
of Ceylon, is a story of villagers
driving-out a decent farmer suspected
of having the “evil eye.”
Vietnam’s only contribution, a fairy-
tale by Pham Duy Khiem, though
charming enough in its own way, steps
aside from simple humanity; and one
or two imitations of Western detective-
stories and the like would have been
better omitted; but “Big Dog Tsou,”
by “Han Suyin,” from Malaya, comes
right back to earth with a most interest-
ing story, not very well worked out, of
the common people of that country
caught “between two terrors” —the
“People Inside” (i.e., the Communist
terrorists) and the police.
The book, then (with the verse,
except for Nick Joaquin’s delightful
“Verde Yo te Quiero Verde” from the
Philippines, not coming over so well),
has this threefold appeal: the exotic
touch of the silver anklets; the infor-
mation about the different countries;
and the simple and pleasing humanity
of the stories. It is all quite different
from the sort of writing on Asia we
have had from European writers such
as Conrad, Maugham or Kipling, who,
if they didn’t confine themselves to
reporting on the behavior of Euro-
peans, of necessity observed the native
inhabitants at a distance, from the
outside. Here, mostly as intellectuals
looking back at their villages with
affectionate amusement, and possibly
with some desire to enlighten the
simple peasantry, these people are


c/reamre
We have a few
LIMITED
EDITION
COPIES
Signed and Numbered
Beautifully illustrated
with, ten plates in full
colour by
Australian Arlist,
William Bustard
Bound in Fine
Leather and Titled
in Gold
at
£5/5/-
each, post free
0
DE-LUXE
EDITION
Bound Full Cloth
at
£2/2/-
each, post free
As a “Gift” to Son,
Grandson or Nephew
a life-lasting
memento
From all Prominent
Booksellers or Direct
from
JACKSON &
O’SULLIVAN
Ply. Ltd.
304 QUEEN STREET
BRISBANE : 2 2461
observing themselves. And they do if
very well.
No doubt the book has all sorts of
political implications, and it might
even be a literary portent, paving the
way for an increased interest in Aus-
tralia in Asian writing. Either way,
since it is free from propaganda and
the writing is excellent, it can do
nothing but good. It is a large book,
with more than 80 writers from Asia
and Australia represented; and, except
for the black half-title page, has been
very attractively produced.
Wild, Wet New Zealand
Edited by his daughter, Mildred
Mueller, Gerhard Mueller’s “Letters
from the West Coast, 1865-6,” pub-
lished under the title of My Dear
Bannie (Pegasus Press) make an excep-
tionally charming addition to the many
excellent pioneering documents which
have been unearthed in recent years to
enrich New Zealand writing.
Mueller was a Dane who emigrated
to America, then to Sydney, Melbourne
and the goldfields around Ballarat, then
to the South Island of New Zealand,
where he became District Surveyor in
the wild, wet and woolly district of
South Westland.
His particular job in Westland was
to survey the native reserves—a task
which was obviously necessary when, as
he says, he arrived only just in time to
stop the town of Okarito being put in
the wrong place: on a reserve from
which it would have had to be shifted—
and what he did, chiefly, was to ride or
walk the bush, getting wet-through:—
Ist November it rained steadily all
day, and towards evening a thunder-
storm came on. I never witnessed
its equal before, especially towards
12 o’clock at night—the lightning
and thunder was terrific. There was
one continuation of lightning, so
strong and glaring that I had to keep
my eyes shut, and the peals of
thunder right above and around us,
and their echo in the mountains and
river gorges, was magnificent. The
FJver rose to a great height and we
were well nigh swept away.
He saw a good deal of the Maoris,
finding them “kind-hearted but dirty”
—a somewhat surprising charge which
perhaps is to be largely explained by
his objection to their anointing them-
selves, both men and women, with
“salad oil.” He also found them
addicted to drink, though not the chief
with whom he had most to do: “Kerei,
I may remark here, never takes drink,
with the exception of Port Wine, and
of this he never drinks more than a
glass a day—he is a real nice fellow,
and quite a pattern of a Mauri.”
Mueller lived for weeks on mussels
and fern-roots. He saw men drowned in
the flooded rivers or, when they were
attempting to cross, marooned at mid-
night on islands in the middle. He was
much bitten by mosquitoes and occas-
ionally, when trees fell on his tent,
assaulted by the forest itself. He saw
the hardships of the gold-seekers who
flocked into the district, and he shared
the general alarm at the Sullivan-Bur-
gess gang, who, on one occasion which
he records, murdered a Mr: Rochfort
by mistake—they thought this unfor-
tunate surveyor was a gold-buyer, and,
having discovered their mistake,
thought it prudent to murder him any-
how.
But sometimes, amidst all these dis-
comforts, the sun shone even in West-
land. He ate pigeons as well as mussels.
He fed a captive kiwi on raw potatoes
and bread soaked in water, keeping it
for a scientific friend. He thoroughly
enjoyed paddling down the rivers in a
canoe, shooting ducks while he made
his surveys—“lndeed the survey I was
making can hardly be called ‘work
done,’ for the day’s work consisted of
three-quarters pleasure and quarter
work” —and, if this alone is nqt enough
to make his book pleasant reading, there
is, running all the way through these
capably-edited letters, the story of his
love for Bannie, his wife, from whom
he was perforce separated while he
secured his job and built a home for
her. He longed for her so much that
when eventually she sent him her photo-
graph he pored over it with a micro-
scope.
EATING FISH
They meet, they congregate, but they fish
and eat
Alone, the cormorants. I don’t know but
that we
Disturb each other, eating at table. By
the sea,
I have noticed on a picnic how the feet,
After the hands are full, turn away from
the spread.
Like a dog with a bone, each footstep
deploys.
It is probable that a person enjoys
Eating alone, best; but we meet to
be fed.
We are not cormorants, and our table
Is not as wide as the sea, not as sparsely
spread.
Often / wonder that, if, instead
Of feeding at table, we gourmands were
able
To fly hence, and swallow a fish, alone —
Would we have so much pains with each
bone?
Q.
JOHN BLIGHT.
Seymour, Vic.
New Crossing Place, by H. G.
Martindale (Cheshire), is a sound if not
exciting local-history of Seymour,
Victoria. The “new crossing-place”
was the spot on the Goulburn River
where they started a punt in 1839 for
travellers from Melbourne to Sydney.
There the town of Seymour grew on
both sides of the crossing.
On the west bank the Seymour Hotel
was much more grand than the Robert
Burns Hotel on the east bank; but,
then, the Robert Burns was rebuilt
into the Royal George. A Government
punt competed with the private punt,
and in 1853 the Seymour Hotel stood
alon9 on the west bank, patronised by
only the crossers on the private punt,
while the town expanded on the east
bank, and under pressure of floods its
centre moved, over the century, from
Emily Street to Station Street.
The great stations that surrounded
Seymour in the early days suffered the
vicissitudes of all big properties under
Victorian law —free selection, and all
that. Tallarook gave its name to the
o Continued on page 59)


The Bulletin
Wednesday, Dec. 24, 1958
Vol. 79—No. 4115
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man _
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney;
Box 2521; 'Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
NEW Zealand: Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
CHRISTMAS IN MOSCOW
V/'ERY few people know anything
about St. Nicholas (Santa Claus),
except that he is impersonated every
year by department-stores employing
an old gentleman done-up in a red
and imitation whiskers. Few
know that he is a patron -saint of
Russia. Some who do associate him
with the Workers’ Only Fatherland
might be inclined to suggest that,
though he was the patron saint, he has
been out of a job there for some years.
During the recent elections in
Berlin, to return 135 members of the
City Parliament, no less than 95 per
cent, of the couple of millions of voters
in West Berlin showed their feelings
about the treatment they had received
by their Western conquerors by asking
them to refrain from leaving them at
the mercy of Santa’s modern succes-
sors in the Kremlin.
The vote was so overwhelming that
not even a Kremlin commissar could
have had the slightest doubt as to what
the West Berliners wanted for a
Christmas-present—to be left with the
West, so far as the city was concerned,
with free elections on the fusion or
otherwise of all Germany. But this
was dismissed by the Kremlin as
“pure demagogy,” which is different,
apparently, from “democracy” so
much vaunted by “Pravda” and
“Izvestia” and Mr. Sharkey in Sydney
in that it is carried on with votes instead
of tommy-guns and lies.
The outlook of Moscow on the
Berlin question was that it was pre-
pared to “co-operate with the Western
Powers,” the word “co-operate”
implying absolute submission to the
Russian will. The alternative was
set-out thus: —
If the Governments of the United
States, Britain and France do not wish
to co-operate with the U.S.S.R. in solving
this problem, nothing remains for the
Soviet Government but to relieve itself
of the functions connected with main-
taining the occupation regime in Berlin,
and to conclude a corresponding agree-
ment with the Government of East
Germany.
This seems perfectly simple in
Moscow, but in the Western world
it has a somewhat original ring.
When four large enterprises make
specific written agreements involving
vast assets and human rights the
guarantee of the agreement is the
standing and reputation of each of
them. It is a mutual understanding
both in law and fact that there shall
be no change in the personnel of the
parties to the arrangement without the
agreement of all of them.
The vote in Berlin, seeing that it
was cast by about two-thirds of the
inhabitants and that the rest were pre-
vented from voting by being jailed
behind the Iron Curtain, was certainly
as conclusive an expression of a desire
by the adults among two-million
people as could have been imagined.
Those who favored the Russian
viewpoint amounted to only 1.9 per
cent, of the total vote. This makes no
difference, and the East German repre-
sentative of the Russian Santa Claus
says that it is merely evidence of
duplicity. Whether the two-million
want it or not, they are to be
swallowed as Christmas turkeys into
the hungry maw of the Soviet bloc.
TJE says, moreover, that anybody
who dares to interfere with this
steal of people who are so unwilling
will be guilty of aggression. He has
joined with Poland and the servile
Gomulka, whose bark is that of a
chained terrier and who hates the
German regimes as a terrier hates cats,
in saying that any attempt to prevent
the pact agreement regarding Berlin
being broken and West Berlin being
raped will be met with the “full force
of the reprisal of the Powers of the
Warsaw Pact.”
This does not mean that East Ger-
many will take reprisals or that Poland
will take reprisals. The heads of those
shadowy regimes are trembling serfs
like the miserable Kadar of Hungary.
The Western Allies have been for-
bidden by the helot remnant, ruled by
old Comintern survivors, which calls
itself “East Germany,” to stay in
Berlin, or to help the West Berliners
to decide their own fate and elect
whether they will join with Commun-
ism or join with the West.
They have been warned that if they
attempt to resist they—the United
States, the United Kingdom, France
and Germany, between them with
more than 300,000,000 people, includ-
ing the Commonwealth nations over-
seas and their companion-nations in
the West —will incur the wrath of
Comrade Grotewohl and be heaved
out, if necessary with atomic weapons.
East Germany and Poland together
couldn’t heave anything out of any-
where. So all this means is that East
Germany is the miserable agent of
Moscow and its Red Army, Air Force
and Navy, which is either using this
crisis to cover-up some other move
elsewhere or is really determined on
world war at a juncture when the
seasons favor the Russians, who are
used to intense cold and are against
the Western nations, which are not.
It is very difficult to believe that
Moscow would want war, especially
over such an issue as Berlin, in which
its moral position is a little better than
that of a burglar who earns his living
by violence and bloodshed.
AT the same time the situation, from
which a spark could easily set fire
to world peace, may not be a matter of
choice. There is no doubt but that
the Kremlin is having a bad time at the
hands of its own people, especially in
the Ukraine. Riots, criticism and
demonstrations have been reported
from many quarters, and the dis-
appearance of Serov, the Security
Chief, and others illustrates their
failure to produce calm.
When dictators find themselves in
trouble at home they are apt to turn
abroad for solutions. A thousand
times in history evil men facing a
desperation of growing discontent have
saved themselves by raising the cry.
“To the ramparts.” An appeal to
fend-off the aggressor from without
has ended many an incipient revolt.
The Berlin case may be one in point.
Again it may provide a geographical,
strategical point of advantage from
which to start a war. Whatever the
truth, it doesn’t reflect much credit
either on the morals or the civilised
thought of Moscow, which are about on
the same level as those of the Cannibal
Islands before Thakambau.
TT is a situation in which the Western
Allies cannot give way either as
a matter of good faith in relationships
with West Germany or as a matter of
security, since to surrender would be to
surrender an immensely valuable
springboard for further advance. If
Germany east of the Elbe goes behind
the Iron Curtain it might not be long
before Khrushchev received an urgent
call to defend the French State against
its Government, the need being certi-
fied to on oath or something by a sub-
ject of Mr. Eddie Ward’s old-time
admiration. Comrade Thorez, the head
of the French Communist party.
As Santa Claus, the Kremlin is
hardly an entity for children to play
with. The world will have to watch the
Russians through the winter with more
solicitude and precaution for them-
selves than admiration of Moscow’s
good deeds.


"EENY, MEENY, MINEY..."


PLAIN ENGLISH
Banking Bills Again
With a freak majority assured in the
Senate of the new Parliament, which is
to meet in February, Mr. Menzies has
lost no time in preparing to bring-down
the banking bills which were defeated
so arbitrarily with the help of some
interesting Labor invalids during the last
Parliament.
It will be almost a session’s work to
debate the four major and 10 minor
consequential bills which cover the whole
scheme—if Labor is willing and able to
fight them to the death.
The measures should be debated, but
on an expert plane, for they will lay a
permanent and complicated foundation
for the banking system which it will be
hard to alter in future, especially if the
changes in the Constitution proposed by
the special committee which sat last year
tend to widen the financial power of the
Commonwealth while safeguarding
against nationalisation.
Some small alterations have been
made in the bills presented previously,
though their exact nature is not yet
clear. Inevitably they will be modifica-
tions to meet the objections of the
trading-banks to certain advantages still
enjoyed by the Commonwealth Trading
Bank under last year’s measures.
Under the legislation the Common-
wealth Bank will function as a central
bank, and a separate corporation, with
an integral and independent staff and
board of directors, will administer the
trading-bank and savings-bank and the
Development Bank of Australia.
It will need more than mere definitive
separation to make this division of power
effective, unless the limitations of the
reserve bank’s authority over private-
bank policy are very clearly and cate-
gorically stated.
The private trading-banks have been
by no means satisfied with the safe-
guards in the old bills, even though the
special-accounts system is to be replaced
with a method of statutory reserve-
deposits similar to that in use in coun-
tries in which reserve-banking functions.
The powers of the reserve bank to
demand at short notice deposits held by
private banks will be amended to a more
specific formula requiring longer notice
to be given.
This is a great advantage over the
existing system, which arms the Com-
monwealth Bank with power to cripple
the rivals of the Commonwealth Trading
Bank through crushing and sudden de-
mands on which there is no real brake.
It is essential that Parliament should
satisfy itself that there are no loopholes
for the evasion of responsibility on either
side, and particularly that the private
banks are fully safeguarded against
differentiation in trading advantages be-
tween themselves and the Common-
wealth Trading Bank and its associated
institutions, in accordance with the
expressed intention of the Government.
Sydney's New Architecture
Within the next three years in ~the
half -a - square - mile bounded by Cir-
cular Quay on the north and King Street
on the south, and between Macquarie
Street, Castlereagh Street and Bligh
Street, east and west no fewer than eight
or nine new office-buildings are contem-
plated in addition to those already built
recently. All will rise to the permitted
height, which in the case of the largest
of them will be 375 ft.
On the higher ground between Bent
Street and Hunter Street the new Com-
monwealth Buildings (to house 10,000
office-workers) are to rise to about 120 ft.
higher than the beautiful Qantas Build-
ing which they will face. Another mon-
ster will adorn the new circus south of
Qantas. Further along, the Common-
wealth Bank is to erect a skyscraper
running all the way along the face of
Martin Place from Phillip Street to
Macquarie Street. And there are at least
two new blocks in contemplation on the
same side of Phillip Street, outside the
new courts building, which is to face
a widened King Street and run all the
way from Macquarie Street to Phillip
Street, engulfing most of the old Denman
Chambers in its depth.
The site of the present ancient Supreme
Court, the kernel of which is the Green-
way building with its cupola and cir-
cular staircase —the only one remaining
of three or four of Greenway master-
pieces of the kind- —is to be cleared for
extra park and traffic accommodation.
It is to be hoped that the court build-
ing which the State Government is
already completing behind the old con-
vict barracks in Queen’s Square—one of
the architectural treasures of the Com-
monwealth and the first building of
beauty and merit erected on the mainland
—is not intended to set the standard for
the new court building which is to house
the High Court and Supreme Court.
The virtual rebuilding of the
whole financial central mile of the
city which is now going on would
not have been allowed to proceed in
any other civilised city of Sydney’s size
without examination by a commission,
the preparation of a concerted plan and
public discussion, perhaps even a world-
wide competition for plans and designs.
Nothing of that sort is being done in
Sydney. At least the reconstruction of
Queen’s Square centre, the pivot of the
park area with its ancient and historic
buildings, should be the subject of proper
inquiry. A committee headed by a
judge, with proper historical and archi-
tectural advisers, should be asked to hear
evidence and advise on its shape and on
the design of the court buildings and
the preservation or otherwise of the
ancient and historic groups of buildings
in the Square and in Macquarie Street.
With somebody like Mr. Justice Sir
Victor Windeyer, knowledgeable both
about legal requirements and about the
history and associations of Sydney, it
should be possible to produce a plan
worthy of the Commonwealth, of a great
city and of the dignity of the superior
courts and their surroundings.
The present don’t-care attitude of the
authorities is in strong contrast to the
hysteria which characterised their
activities for the building of an opera-
house.
Preventive Medicine
Thirteen Melbourne doctors, all ex-
perienced and of high repute, have come-
up with some suggestions for reforms
for curbing road-accidents, chiefly in
dealing with the drinking driver* and
they have not been lucky in the response
from any quarter.
The proposals are sweeping, or at
least too drastic, as may have been ex-
pected from experts insufficiently aware
of public opinion, and have been based
on regulations introduced by the New
York State legislators five years ago.
The B.M.A. entered the road-law pic-
ture when its council asked the Govern-
ment to consider “preventive medicine”
for road-accidents, and the Government
replied, asking, in effect, what medicine
would be ordered.
About the same time, the “British
Medical Journal” (England) published
the results of a very interesting survey
in which three groups of bus-drivers’
reactions were studied after the first
group had had lunch and no alcohol, the
second, lunch and two ounces of whisky,
and the third, lunch and six ounces of
whisky. None of the first group
attempted to take his bus through a too-
narrow opening ; and more of the two-
ounce drivers than the third group did
so, but the general driving of the six-
ounce drivers was worse.
The doctors recommended driving-
licences should be contingent on an appli-
cant’s consent to allow alcohol tests or
other approved tests at any time ; drivers
with a blood alcohol-content of 0.1 per
cent., which is equal (reputedly) to seven
glasses of beer or seven ounces of whisky,
to be deemed guilty of an offence, and
refusal to undergo tests automatically
cancelled the licence for a statutory
period.
They also sought stiffer medical tests
for private motorists and medical
examinations for all commercial drivers,
septuagenarians and over, applicants for
restoration of licences, and accident-
prone drivers; the encouragement of
safety-belts and their adoption in time
as standard equipment, as well as shock-
absorbing steering-wheels, padded dash-
boards with recessed knobs, safe door-
locks, strengthened seat-tracks and -locks;
and leg-bars and crash-helmets for
motor-cyclists.
The cold reception to the earnest
report by the B.M.A. committee included
the complaint by the. press that the wide
powers which would be conferred cn
the police would be an encroachment
on civil liberty, which is obviously true ;
and there 1 is already so much encroach-
ment on civil liberty, particularly in the
police-courts, either by sections of the
Police Offences’ Act or by the practices
of magistrates, any further inroad should
be resisted.
Ministerial reaction was that the


B.M.A. was seeking, in some sections
of the report, to have secondary punish-
ments inflicted on drivers. All the cir-
cumstances are taken into account in
courts in fining or jailing drivers on
conviction, including previous offences.
An accident-prone driver’s licence is
suspended not merely for the period
appropriate to his latest offence but also
with reference to his previous road-
history.
The seven 7oz. glasses of beer which
might have a disastrous effect on visitors
to Victoria from States with lesser beers
is considerably less than the 10 7oz.
glasses which Dr. J. H. Birrell, the police-
surgeon, recently recommended as over
the limit; the Gallup poll also recently
tested public opinion and found 10 7oz.
beers the popular conception of the limit.
The doctors have, however, come-up
with a transparently sincere and
thorough job and a report laced with
research and impressive figures; the
publicity of the gravity with which they
regard the inadequate discipline on the
roads is worth while.
As they point out, the commonest
cause of death in Australia for people
under 40 years is in a road-accident;
and it may be some of their reforms
eventually will be adopted. They might
have been accepted a little earlier if the
authorities and the public had not been
stirred into startled alarm and beguiled
by the exercise of a more adroit bedside
manner.
Departmental Contempt
of Court?
Governments and their transport-
authorities have an imperative and diffi-
cult task in coping with the rising toll
of road-accidents, and their problem is
not made any easier by the ever-increasing
number of vehicles on the roads. This,
however, does not justify their departing
from the usual processes of the law when
dealing with traffic-offenders For that
reason the new penalties announced by
the N.S.W. Commissioner for Motor
Transport, W. A. Walsh, arouse the
strongest condemnation.
Under the new rules any motorist
receiving two convictions for breaches of
driving-regulations within any two-year
period will be liable to have his licence
suspended. On the face of it this may
not sound very drastic, but on depart-
mental authority breaches which may
render a motorist liable to this penalty
include:
Failure to obey a traffic-light, “halt,”
“stop” or “slow” sign.
Failure to give way to pedestrians at a
pedestrian crossing.
Exceeding the speed-limit.
Crossing the centre-line on a grade or at
a curve.
Negligent driving.
Not giving proper hand-signgls.
Other breaches which could lead to
hazardous situations on the road.
Explaining the application of the new
regulations, Mr. Walsh says that after
a first conviction a motorist will receive
a warning. If he is convicted again within
two years he will be asked to show cause
why his licence should not be suspended.
The rule is retrospective in that motorists
who have already had convictions will
be “asked to show cause” if they get
another conviction within two years.
The commissioner says suspension will
not be automatic; he will take the
motorist’s reply into account. But “my
decision will rest on the circumstances
arising from his general record.”
No doubt the commissioner intends
to be fair and judicial. But in every
case he will be dealing with a man who
has already been tried by a court and
inflicted with the penalty prescribed by
law. Mr. Walsh’s verdict, where it goes
against the motorist, will be an addi-
tional penalty for an offence for which
he has already faced trial. Every such
suspension will have been made after a
magistrate, who has the power to recom-
mend suspension and who has heard all
the evidence, has decided that the offence
did not merit that penalty. The fact,
pointed out by Mr. Walsh, that a motorist
will have the right to appeal to the courts
against his suspension by the commis-
sioner mitigates the wrongness of the new
rule, but it doesn’t make it right.
Indonesian Alignment
The moves by the United States and the
United Kingdom to help stabilise the
Indonesian position have been proceed-
ing very quietly, but with urgency.
There seemed a few months ago to
be a strong risk that the mushroom
republic would collapse, a heap of ruins,
into the hands of the Communists. This
danger is far from over even now, but
the trend is away from the Iron Curtain
for the moment, though Soekarno is a
not very reliable anchor for any system
or allegiance.
One moment he is threatening the
Dutch, the next avowing that he will
never use arms to achieve his objectives
in West New Guinea. One moment he
Start Reading
"TIME MEANS TUCKER"—
page 19.
is declaring his love and affection for
the United States and the West, and the
next he is in Moscow giving the clenched-
fist salute, or back home in Djakarta or
Bandoeng ringed by tommy-guns and
reorganising his Cabinet with as much
Communist ingredient as the Army
leaders will allow him to infuse into it.
At the moment, his face is towards the
West. His Government is accepting aid
from the United States, having a little
while ago accepted it (or at least the
promises of it) from the Kremlin.
Where, early in the year, his linkages
and sources of armament were behind
the Curtain, now they are with the
United Kingdom and continental Wes-
tern Europe. His purchases are hardly
more than enough to enable him to keep
his own rebellious outposts in check.
In buying arms, ships and aircraft
from the United Kingdom, Indonesia is,
of course, as Mr. Casey has remarked,
engaged in an ordinary commercial trans-
action. If the Western nations had not
agreed to supply, somebody else would.
As it is, the advantage is gained of having
the Indonesian force dependent on
British and Americans for tooling-up for
expansion and repair. Any switch to the
Reds would call for a good deal of scrap-
ping of materiel.
The Indonesian Government, more-
over, has given the assurance that it will
not use force against the Dutch in West
New Guinea, which is something to the
good, especially when it is given by an
Administration which has just protested
against the presence of Russia at the
Cairo Afro-Asian Conference
Now that there is evidence that Indo-
nesia’s Government is learning the facts
of life everything should be done to
cultivate friendship and trade. But it is
up to Indonesia to establish bona fdes.
It has, on the whole, had a very good
run from the West.
Stanhill Marches On
One of the most piquant situations in
Victorian municipal annals has been
reached at Heidelberg, the outer Mel-
bourne suburb, where the local council
has retreated with remarkable rapidity
from the determined advances of Stanley
Korman, the speculator, and his rich
dollar associates into the reputedly
reserved green-belt area of Banyule.
Despite the protests of all hands with
no axes to grind, and abetted by a
vacillating attitude by the State Govern-
ment, the Korman interests actually made
their landing in Banyule, chiefly with the
aid of the local council and talk about
what the Korman interests would do for
the district.
It is now disclosed that the council last
week gave way further to the Korman
high-pressure by narrow majorities.
The admittedly generous financial
arrangements announced at the time of
the green-belt grab, to sweeten the pill,
have now been modified to a remarkable
degree.
Stanhill will lend the council the
money, interest-free, for 25 years to make
the electricity connection costing about
£50,000, and not provide it free; the
council will pay half, not none, of the
cost of access-roads to the estate ; the
council will pay for all work already
done by council employees on houses and
roads, other than supervisory work on
roads. ,
Moreover, the company will pay £2OOO
towards the cost of a baby-health centre
and nothing towards the cost of a site
for a school and health-centre, and eight
to 10 acres for sporting-areas will be
provided by the company, not the 38
acres agreed to originally.
Can’t someone in Parliament, or the
Local Government Department, take it
up from here?


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
nPHE white residents of the Deep
South (U.S.A.) sho’ do take their
color-problem cautiously. The “Saturday
Evening Post” gave Althea Gibson, the
negro champion, a good write-up and
featured a picture of her dancing with
Lew Hoad. A Noo Orleans reader
strongly objected, saying that the paper
should be a little more considerate of the
feelings of their white Southern readers:
“I think it’s a disgrace to publish a pic-
ture of this Althea Gibson dancing with
Lew Hoad, who looks like a white
man . . .” —“Sanasi.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Keyovadee”: Count'ry-town fancy-
dress ball, and two of the lads were
Marilyn Monroes. Frequent trips to the
whisky-bottle at the back of the hall
dulled the perceptions of one, and seeing
what he thought to be his vis-a-vis in the
middle of the dance-hall floor he loudly
queried: “Mine’s oranges. What’s
yours?” and proceeded to find out.
Big trouble then: “Yours” belonged to
a third Monroe, and they were not
oranges!
“H.C.L.”: A puzzled man at the
Federal elections had thumbtacked the
hovy-to-vote card on the wall of the
voters’ cubicle in the outback town,
inscribed thus: “Eeny, meeny mynie,
mo. B me, Dad, I don’t know!”
♦2» «£♦
“Terry”: As Christmas approaches
there is an increase in the number of
elderly derelicts who collapse in the
street and are brought into hospital. One
such, who was so filthy he had to be
sprayed with insecticide on admittance,
was found to be clutching a small bag
of revealing evidence —a clean change and
toilet-requisites. The sister on duty
ignored them.
* ❖ ♦>
“Harry the Horse”: It's not only sheep
that are shorn: every time I fork-out
4s. 6d. for having my sparse hairs
clipped, I feel that I’ve been well and
truly fleeced. And there’s the rub. The
price for shearing is £7 12s. 6d. a hundred,
which is approximately Is. 6d. a head.
Why should I be mulct three times that
amount? Certainly the sheep isn’t
treated to a shot of bay rum but
neither am I. “A little something for
the hair?” comes the query, and what
do we get? Just a splash of cold water.
Certainly that is preferable to a touch
of the tar-brush; and I usually get
some racing information thrown-in —but
for Is. 6d. I’d be happy enough to lose
on my own racing divinations,
♦++
“Mugga Way”: Glad to learn that
that W.A. institution, Captain Jimmy
Woods, is still going strong (B. 3/12/ ’5B).
Veteran air-traveller. R. G. Menzies has
probably forgotten most of his journeys,
but I bet he still remembers his first
flight with Jimmy, in 1944. A sedate
crowd of local Liberals had chartered
Jimmy and his plane for a flight from
Kalgoorlie to Busselton, via the unused
airstrip at Meckering, and we took-off
with a load of that day’s “Miner” con-
taining a page report of Ming’s meeting
of the previous night (I’d sat up till
3 a.m. typing it, a little wan after a
flight from Melbourne). Jimmy’s idea of
delivering the papers to Coolgardie and
some other towns was to flip over on
his port wing and allow the bundle at
the open doorway to fall cut. He was
annoyed if the papers missed the corner
of the footpath by more than a yard.
All this was exhilarating enough, but
the real thrill came when he sighted a
flock of emus in the outer wheatbelt,
and devoted several minutes to chasing
“Excuse me, dear, I just Want to remind you that our last bus
leaves at midnight."
MAYOR OR LESS
“Mayors of Sydney municipalities have no
intention of imitating Dr, R. B. Lynch, new
Mayor of Glen Innes, who presides at council
meetings in shorts and shirt.”
How vainly mayors attract our gaze,
Repulsing those whom they amaze ;
The overlords of streets and drains
Are masked by robes and ringed by
chains
From such as want a road repaired,
A plan o.k'd, or grievance aired,
When they in shorts and shirts could be
Much easier for all to see.
Glen Innes shows, in Mayor Lynch,
Those who take ells when given an inch
The way in which our times progress
Towards a bikini’d mayoress,
In council, park, or freehold lot
A perambulant beauty-spot,
Annihilating rates unpaid
As a quick draw for the hick trade.
For her the council engineer
Will fill the water-mains with beer ;
On all instrumentalities
The council seal will be a kiss,
And everywhere the people move
The streets and roads will lead to love —•
But don’t expect her until when
Aldermen are younger men.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM LE MARVELL.


the birds around the paddock. Menzies
had long since foregone his customary
snooze in flight, but he made a slightly
grumpy remark when asked to comment
on Jimmy’s superb flying.
❖ ❖ ❖ i
“Wusslean”: The pre-Christmas busi-
ness parties have their perils. After a
convivial hour or so with kindred spirits
in our trade, I walked down Melbourne’s
Collins Street and stopped at a kiosk ;
the attendant grinned broadly and
remarked: “Good afternoon, Mr. Wuss-
lean ; how are things with Blanks these
days?” As I had never told him my
name, let alone that of my firm, I was
puzzled ; then he pointed to the card-
board disk proclaiming my name and.
occupational details on my coat-lapel.
Still, Christmas is a time for tolerance
and understanding; no one has reported
me to Blanks yet.
♦♦♦
“Terry”: “Look, I got ninety-four for
this one,” he sais, pointing to the section
of English classed as Comprehension on
his first school-report. “I don’t know
what it is, but I must be pretty good at it.”
<♦ ♦;«
“Ailsey”: Newcastle (N.S.W.) garbage-
depot was rung-up by a wrung-out
woman whose gold chain, given her as
a Christmas present, had been wrapped
in cotton-wool and put into an empty
tin, the tin dropped into an empty biscuit-
box, and the biscuit-box dumped in the
garbage-tin. The hide-and-seek didn’t
disturb the garbo-men ; they turned over
a mountain of refuse, rummaged among it
and found the biscuit-box on the bottom.
♦♦♦ tjt
“Poppa”: There is something of all
Our Fair Ladies in the story I heard of
one who bought her husband out of her
unequal pay a complete recording of you-
know-what for Christmas, broke it over
his head —and got him another one.
❖ ♦> *>
“Wallboard”: Mrs. Wallboard read
“Eureka’s” comments about how few
hotels have Australian names (B.
3/12/’5B) and said: “What about that
one you got to at Waitara —the Blue
Gum? That’s Australian enough, and
what’s more it’s appropriate to the saps
who spend their time in pubs.”
♦!*
“Kate”: I hadn’t realised just how
commonplace my Christmas gifts had
been until I began leafing through several
American magazines that sell at 35c.
each. The following are just a few of
the more unusual gifts, ones I’d never
heard of before: —
A calendar-and-bank combination that forces
one to save 100 dollars a year—2s cents a
day have to be paid in or the calendar won’t
change the date; a Drawkcab Llaw Kcolc,
electric, which, although it is guaranteed to tell
the right time accurately, tells it the wrong
way because the time is in reverse, the hands
turn backwards, and the numbers read back-
wards. Then there are Christmas-cards 6ft. high
“It's a rattling good yam! I wonder how it finished?”
and 3ft. wide for covering one’s front-door,
silk-screened on poster-material with pine-
scented inks and your family name lettered on
the bottom, free. Towels with a woven border,
“Stolen From Alcatraz,” and suchlike on them;
novelty throw-pillows stamped “Crying Pillow,”
“I-GO-4-U,” “I Hate Homework” (spelled
backwards), etc.; 14-carat gold sewing-needles
and needle-threaders; a Scratching Post for
Kitty treated with catnip to attract cats and
allow the animal when indoors to flex its
claws without damage to the furniture and
drapes. For your dog there is a canvas sling-
bed built on a wi ought-iron frame to enable
your pet to rest in peace indoors.
♦♦♦ A
V V V
“Nunk”: A few days before Saturday’s
opening of Sydney Council’s swimming-
pool and skating-rink in Alfred Park, up
near Central station, I got off a tram to
have a look. The workmen reminded
me of the gardeners in Alice in Wonder-
land —it wouldn’t have surprised me to
see Mayor Jensen striding among them
shouting “Off with his head . . .!” The
pool, quite flat when full, must hold
many thousand gals—a welcome sight for
the boys, and much more edifying than
the scenes in Alfred Park we used to
peer at at crib-time when I was a slave
on the night-shift of a Chalmers Street
box-factory.
♦♦♦ .<£♦
/Vfter the ordeal of the recent
Brisbane Test, I sought relaxation
at our oval on Saturday afternoon. Runs
came steadily, wickets fell, and for good
measure one had the company of Emile
Mercier's fictional characters—queer old
gentlemen with grotesquely rolled
umbrellas, stout men, thin men, and men
whose other interest than cricket was
obviously beer, discoursing volubly on
the giants of the past. Bosanquet, the
original googly bowler, whom they called
“Bose-and-ket” and had seen in 1905 —
or was it 1908?—Ernie Jones, Tibby
Cotter, Larwood and Trueman . . . Jones,
it was alleged, was a thrower ; Cotter
was given more credit for accurate fast
bowling; while Larwood, despite the


smear of Bodyline, was considered to be
peer of them all. There was one who
took no part in these discussions, or any
apparent interest in what was happening
on the field. His hobby appeared to be
crabs, and from a large leather bag he
produced a succession of them for
immediate consumption. His cracking of
their shells and extracting the meat by
suction had to be heard to be believed.
How good it is to realise that in spite
of what England and Australia are
trying to do to the greatest of games
many ordinary young men still regard
cricket as a pastime, and we of-the older
generation, with memories of Grace,
Hobbs, Trumper and Bradman, can
enjoy it in a simple environment as a
spectacle, not to mention such side-shows
as crab-eaters and critics. —“T.S.H.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“A.R.C.”: The headquarters of the
Pentecostal Church in Melbourne is a
cinema converted to the use of the
church ; the frontage of the building
retains several shops at each side of the
main entrance. During a visit of Oral
Roberts (the faith-healer who urged
listeners to put their hands on the radio
while he prayed) one of the shops was
tenanted by a business which advertised
in large gold letters across the window:
“Invisible Mending Here.”
♦> *t* +!♦
“Justin Thyme”: Rummaging among
old papers I came across a little 100-year-
old shorthand magazine dated December,
1858, entitled “the Excelsior Phono-
graphic Ever - Circulating Magazine,
Sydney, conducted by John Lusby”—he
was grandfather of Bulletin writer
Jack Lusby. It is a really remarkable
piece of work, a 12-page handwritten
shorthand issue. The editor —at that time
with Henry Parkes on “The Empire”
newspaper—was the first in Australia to
pass Isaac Pitman’s examination in
phonography. Forming a class which
met in the old School of Arts building
in Pitt Street, John Lusby gathered
around him a group of students for
whom “The Excelsior” was first pub-
lished in June, 1858. Today its copper-
plate shorthand is as clear and unfaded
as when it was written. Such articles as
“Menia for Sakson Wordz” (mania for
Saxon words); “Stim Navigecon”
(Steam Navigation); and “Therti yers
ago” (Thirty years ago) remind us that
phonography was a live subject long
before Shaw’s “Pygmalion.”
*l* ❖ ♦>
“P.0.M.C.”: Equal pay for women
.. .! A bevy of typists in our office were
playing cards during the lunch-break.
Presently a disagreement in the best
women’s - club tradition arose. Deeply
immersed in a tome on political history
and a swivel-back chair, I was shrilly
appealed to. “Mr. Mac.,” one literally
screamed at me, “doesn’t four-of-a-
straight beat a busted flush?”
❖ ❖ ❖
“VVu Foo”: Sydney trucks labelled
“Dairy Farmers’ Milk” surprise those
visitors from outside our greatest metro-
polis who still seem to prefer the old-
fashioned variety from cows.
* »> »>
“Corio”: It isn't often that two radio
quiz-programmes disagree on answers to
the same question, but A.B.C. and 8.8. C.
sessions did, on the origin of the term
“to sack.” The A.B.C. quoted Sidney
Baker's story of the European king who,
confronted with two noble aspirants for
his daughter’s hand, ordained that the one
who put the other inside a sack got the
princess. The 8.8. C. rather thought it
stemmed from putting belongings into a
sack when a man was dismissed from his
employment.
“Pieter Nuyts”: Not all the Itie equip-
ment we struck in the Western Desert was
in the “tin-can” class (B. 3/12/’5B).
Their compasses and binoculars were in
a class of their own, and I recall one of
their mines that gave our ginger-beers
(I was one of them) more than a touch
of them and some mighty anxious
moments. It was shaped like a thermos-
flask and was dropped from aircraft, a
cap unwinding on the way down and
allowing the final bump to set the trigger-
mechanism. After that the slightest
touch, or even the vibrations of a couple
of men walking within a couple of yards,
detonated it; and it carried a heavy
punch. Only way I ever saw them
handled successfully was by a character
with a long rope or twine with a stick on
the end of it. He placed the stick a
respectful distance from the bomb,
walked around it to the other side, again
at a distance, then pulled the stick over
the mine, keeping low. A few didn’t go
up, at that; a few samples were dis-
mantled for study. Their workmanship
was beautiful, and helped to establish in
my mind a respect for Itie equipment.
“Y’ know, Pop, if you care to turn
an honest penny or two, Foe got a
publisher for that old diary of
yours.”
IN PRAISE OF PRAISE
“The man who has a subtle mind will direct
his flattery of a woman to her intellectual
qualities.”— Woman’s magazine.
It’s possible that Adam, when
For special favor he was bidding,
Conceived the notion, there and then,
That Eve would fall for lots of kidding.
The doghouse he’d escape from by
Praising extravagantly her eye,
Her lips, her hair; and with a sigh
Of joy this flattery she would swallow.
A challenge thus with skill he met,
And turned aside the fume and fret.
In doing so he firmly set
A pattern for mankind to follow.
From that dim past right up till now,
With dividends Man’s been rewarded
When admiration of a brow,
A dimpled chin, has been accorded.
But homage paid to golden tress;
Her unexampled sense of dress;
Her facial exquisiteness ;
The flawlessness of her complexion —
Can these be superseded by
Praises which seek to glorify
(Though constituting quite a lie!)
Her intellectual perfection?
There may be dames who'd fall straight-
way
For one who subtly seeks to flatter
The sharpness of their reasoning, say,
The quality of their grey-matter.
It's possible that such a bod
Could notch some wins, however odd.
But, still and all, I’d slam my wad
Upon the lover who isn’t sparing
In praise of figure that could vie
With Venus’s. Who’d certify
Her loveliness. Praise to the sky
The ravishing little hat she’s wearing.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


/Christmas brings duties to the
conscientious uncle, and I found
myself doing a Christmas-display crawl
around the Sydney shops in tow of a
young niece. She explained her require-
ments and expectations to three different
red-robed gents as we went from store
to store. In the fourth emporium the
benign old gent beamed at the angelic-
looking child and put the stock ques-
tion : “And what do you want me to
bring you, girlie?” The angel glared:
“Not much use telling you,’'’ she
snapped in tones that her mother just
wouldn't have believed ; “I’ve told you
three times and you still don’t know.” —
“Swelpme.”
❖ ♦> ❖
“Bicky”: West Australian pace-bowler
Harry Gorringe may never put fear into
the hearts of opposing cricketers as did
Miller and Lindwall, but he has one
claim to immortality; his name is the
only word that I have ever found to
rhyme with “orange,” though as rhymes
go, it’s a bit of a googly.
* ❖
“Y. 8.”: No; ending a sentence with
“but” (B. 3/12/’5B) isn’t a newie. Early
in World War 1, in an Asian port, 1
“It Was a matter of economy —he couldn't run to both."
was aboard a ship which was to re-
patriate seamen to Australia. They re-
fused makeshift accommodation in the
’tween-decks. When told they could
either travel that way or not at all they
gave in; one, with injured pride, ex-
claimed : “I’ve been accused of saying
this was good enough ; I didn’t, but.”
I can still see the astonished look on an
English officer’s face. Ten years ago in
our Sydney suburb the “but” ending was
very common—a boy was telling about
his girl-friend taking him to meet her
parents: “I’m getting on all right with
her mother —l’m not doing too good with
the old man, but.” I thought the habit
had since died out, but lately a boy
whose chin barely cleared the counter
was buying cigarettes. “Don’t tell me
you smoke,” I said. He replied: “These
are for Mum I don’t smoke.” Then,
as he went out, he added: “I used to
when I was little, but.”
❖ ♦> *X*
'“Niappe”: Drawing the line costs
money. Before the price-rise now pend-
ing, a 21b. loaf of bread without a
dividing-line cost Is. 6d. in Victoria. The
same weight loaf with a dividing-line cost
Is. 7d.; it was then two quarter-loaves at
94d. each!
v
“Kelms”: Old-timers who can recall
when it was the recognised thing for
sons, often towards the end of their ’teens,
to pass over their pay-envelopes and
accept a few - bob pocket-money will
smile—approvingly, 1 hope—at a Perth
magistrate’s decision. A 17-year-old
youth was up on a charge of loitering,
and a probation - officer said the lad’s
parents took his pay and allowed him
five-bob a week. The Beak came down
on that with both feet —said it was
ridiculous —and sentenced the youth to
pay a reasonable board, to be determined
by the probation-officer, and keep the
rest to give himself a chance to manage
his own affairs. He was also placed on
probation until he turns 18, apparently
to give him the benefit of a guiding hand
and fatherly advice while he becomes
used to his new affluence.
... .*. »
‘ * *
. “ A -M ”: R M ; G- camp of six linesmen
m north-east Victoria sports five cars —
*e odd-man-out being the boss.
♦ . «
“Mugga Way”: Reports from Britain
say that clocking-in by employees is being
abolished, because punching a card or
signing a book doesn't mean that work
begins at once. With employees person-
ally responsible for starting work on
time, the punctuality-records are im-
proving.
A A A
V V V
“Forenoon”: Science - exam, question
“In which system is the planet Jupiter?”
brought three keen answers: the Solo
system, the Nervous System and the
Feudal System.
* * ❖
“Dear Bill”: We do things all our
own way in Canberra, and although I
don’t know of a house with a \ number
(B. 3/12/’5B), I knew of a house with
three numbers. It had a large frontage
and was on a corner, so a number was
placed on either end of the front and
one on the side round the corner. That
equalised it democratically. No. 6 was
placed on our house, which was the
first in the street, so I asked the official,
“Why?” “Well, some time the street may
be lengthened and the house round the
corner put in your street.” It didn’t seem
sense to me, as that house was on a main
road and would then be numbered 4,
apparently in case of further road-growth.
As I looked doubtful he continued, “You
see, the house round the corner opposite
may also be in your street, so the first
house on that side is numbered 3.” He
had no answer when I pointed out that
the number given to it was 9 ; and he
has probably returned for elucidation in
the matter to the Bachelor of Economics
who is in charge of the plans for number-
ing Canberra houses. I am expecting
at any lime now to see a notice in our
paper of a lecture before one of our
many intellectual societies on the “Mathe-
matics of House-numbering.”


POLITICAL POINTS
N.S.W. Police Commissioner Delaney
claimed that last year his C. 1.8. cleared-
up 82 per cent, of all serious crimes in
N.S.W. Shown this report, Queensland
Police Commissioner Bischof said that
no police-force in the world could record
truthfully an 82 per cent, clear-up of
crime. Does this constitute grounds for
Delaney “going” Bischof under Cahill’s
new Defamation Act? If so, will he be
able to have Bischof extradited from
Queensland? Or will he have to dare him
to “come across the border and say
that”? Or —will he have to go to Bris-
bane and sue under the Queensland Act,
on which the N.S.W. Act is said to be
based?
• •
Annie VIII, born March 13, 1941,
producer to date of 205,0001 b. of milk,
has been named in the Netherlands as
the Cow of the Year. Nominations for
the Australian Cow of the Year will be
received at The Bulletin office up to
noon on December 31. No details of
milk-output are required and the only
restriction is that the winning cow must
be of the two-legged variety.
• •
The new Federal Cabinet held its first
meeting last Wednesday, and afterwards
the Prime Minister announced that the
banking bills rejected by the Senate in
the old Parliament would be re-
introduced soon after Parliament meets
in February. The banking legislation
comprises four major bills and 10 minor
bills, and the main purposes are (1) to
separate the central bank from the
trading, savings, mortgage and industrial-
finance institutions and to establish it as
the Reserve Bank of Australia ; (2) to
set - up a Commonwealth Banking Cor-
poration, with a new board and a separate
staff, to administer the Commonwealth
Trading Bank and the savings bank and
the Development Bank; (3) to replace the
special-accounts system with a system of
statutory reserve-deposits.
The decision to go right ahead with
the banking legislation springs from the
Government’s unexpected present of a
31-29 majority in the “rump” Senate.
Earlier it had been taken for granted that
the bills would have to wait till the new
Senate met after July 1.
• •
The Christmas break-up party of the
Queensland executive of the A.L.P.
seems to have been a break-up in more
ways than one. A sequel was a special
meeting of the Q.C.E. on Thursday at
which the president, J. J. Bukowski, was
suspended from office. Bukowski is State
secretary of the A.W.U., and neither he
nor any' of the other seven A.W.U. dele-
gates attended the meeting, wh’ich passed
the expulsion motion by 49 votes to one.
Bukowski said later of the Christmas
shivoo:
It was just a beer-party. There’s nothing
in the rules and Constitution or under
British justice that allows a private argu-
ment to become a political issue.
• •
As anticipated, Senator Sandford
(A.L.P.) won the sixth Victorian Senate
seat, giving the Government and Labor
three senators each, all of them members
of the previous Parliament. Sandford’s
margin was perilously narrow. The
quota necessary for election was 185,442,
and when only one candidate (Commu-
nist R: Gibson) remained to be eliminated
Sandford (178,745) was only a whisker
in front of D.L.P. candidate J. Little
(178,679). Gibson’s preferences brought
the totals to 186,722 and 184,155. As
the A.L.P. team had first position on the
ballot-paper Senator Sandford should be
duly grateful to the down-the-card voters
for their unwitting support.
o •
Bishop Omari, of Central Tanganyika,
is seeking the admission of East African
students to Australian universities. There
seems no reason why the Colombo Plan
provisions for studentships shouldn't be
extended to include Africans.
• •
Eddie Ward isn't withdrawing his criti-
cism of the way the A.L.P. election-
campaign was conducted. He's repeating
it. He told a Christmas party of the
Miscellaneous Workers’ Union that the
party would examine the mistakes of the
campaign “in the proper place’’ and
would then decide future policy. He left
no doubt as to his own opinion of what
that policy should be:
1 think the evils ot capitalism must be
supplanted by a system of Socialism. The
public must control monopolies. Labor
must not be afraid to put this view to
the Australian people.
Ward seems to. see eye-to-eye with
Federal president Chamberlain on the
necessity of proclaiming Labor as a
Socialist party.
• •
Canadian Prime Minister Didfenbaker
made some good points on immigration
policies at his press-conference in Can-
berra. Canada had drawn her 17-y-million
people from all nations, he said, and they
had been able to achieve unity and
tolerance.
He was himself an example of the
success of the assimilation of Europeans ;
he was the first Canadian Prime Minister
to be of other than completely British
or French descent. His .own party in
the Canadian Parliament included repre-
sentatives of 13 races, and one of his first
duties after his election had been to
appoint a Red Indian representative to
the Senate.
“Why can’t I eat my cake and have IT, too?”


Professor Lovell, of Jodrell Bank
radio-telescope fame, thinks that within
a few years astronomers may be able
to agree on how the universe began. That
is, of course, provided in the meantime
they are able to agree not to end it.
• •
When the Melbourne shipping-reporters
boarded the Tri-Ellis, for which an Aus-
tralian crew including the secretary of
the Victorian branch of the Seamen’s
Union had been flown to Glasgow at a
cost of £26,000, they were able to find
everyone except the union official, who
had worked, it is claimed, as an ordinary
deckhand on the voyage. But the Bird
had flown.
• •
Newcastle branch of the A.L.P. is to
urge the N.S.W. executive to seek an
amendment of the Liquor Act to abolish
the 6.30-7.30 p.m. tea-break in trading
hours. Reason: to provide employment
for hotel-employees who have lost their
jobs recently. If the provision of employ-
ment is to be the determinant of liquor-
trading hours why not keep the pubs
open all night?
A •
Fourteen years ago a young Dutch
migrant, Caas Tesselaar, and his wife
took-up 30 acres of land near Monbulk
(Vic.), imported bulbs from Holland and
started a tulip-farm. Later they assisted
other Dutchmen to acquire land nearby,
with the result that there are now eight
flourishing tulip - farms in the district,
constituting a colorful patch of Holland
30 miles from Melbourne.
• •
Informal votes at the Senate election
topped the half-million, which is a con-
demnation of our educational system, or
our electoral system, or both. Informals
outnumbered the Communist vote, the
D.L.P. vote and all the Independents.
This disgraceful record has brought from
retiring Chief Electoral Officer L. Ains-
worth a suggestion for breaking the total
down somewhat. He advocates that in-
stead of insisting on “a number in every
square” it should be necessary only to
vote for the number of candidates
corresponding to the number of vacancies.
Thus, at the recent election, voters in
N.S.W. and Victoria would have had to
place a number in only six squares ; in
the other States, five.
• •
Wheat production for the current har-
vest should be between 200-million and
215-million bushels, according to official
estimates of the Bureau of Agricultural
Economics. This is about double last
year’s harvest, which in almost every
State was cut to the stalk by drought.
N. S. Wales farmers will reap about 67-
million bushels ; last year they managed
only 11 - million, and the Ma State had
to import wheat. The State’s Railway
Department will be glad of the improved
harvest. Last year’s poor crop hit it
badly.
“A pity! Defamatory !
“P.0.M.C.”: If Eddie Ward success-
fully challenges Evatt for leadership what
a turn-up it would be for the Govern-
ment! For years the Doc. has been its
best asset, but what gilt-edged security
of office the Libs, will have if Eddie’s bid
comes off!
• •
Indian economist Dr. S. Chandra-
sekhar, of Madras University, didn’t take
home from China the rosy picture some
Australian Labor politicians brought back
.from their visit to Mao’s domain. On
his arrival in Hong Kong he described
the commune system as a new form of
colonialism and said he had not seen
one happy face in any of the communes
he visited during his six week’s stay:
The dreadful grimness of the people’s
expressions showed the signs of poverty
and unseen burdens which they could not
bear. China is like a big zoo. You have
three meals a day and you work tremen-
dously hard. But you have no freedom.
“Zoo” hardly seems the right analogy
to choose. Apart from the elephant, the
denizens of a zoo don’t have to work.
• •
“Terry the Tory”: If, as C. L.
Sulzberger states (B. 3 /12 / ’5B), the
Americans have an inherent mistrust of
military politicians, they haven’t shown
it in connection with their highest
political office. Of the 32 U.S. Presidents
roughly one-third have held high military
rank. Ten have been generals—George
Washington, Andrew Jackson, William
Henry Harrison, Zachary Taylor, Frank-
lin Pierce, Ulysses S. Grant, J. A. Gar-
field, Chester Arthur, Benjamin Harrison
and Dwight Eisenhower. Only one
general has been Prime Minister of
Britain —the Duke of Wellington.
After running five years, the petrol-tax
formula expires on June 30, and Herbert
Hyland, leader of the Country party in
Victoria, has asked Premier Bolte to
convene a gathering of all interested
Victorian parties to elect a deputation to
seek Commonwealth support for a new
formula giving Victoria a better deal.
He reckons the other States have ganged-
up against Victoria in fixing previous
formulas.
Things being as they are between the
two leaders, Bolte suggests icily that any
proposals in writing will be considered.
He couldn’t, he says, possibly do any
worse than the Governments in which
Hyland was a leading light.
• •
The wool industry seems to be waking-
up to the fact that positive measures
will serve it best in meeting competition
from synthetics; merely proclaiming
that wool is better than man-made fibres
is not enough. In kt least one State the
butter-men have come to the same con-
clusion in regard to their war with
margarine. Queensland Butter Board has
started a campaign to attract “impulse”
buyers. Departing from the traditional
style of packaging butter, it is trying-out
bright, colored wrappers designed to
attract the eye of the casual shopper. It
may be a fact that you shouldn’t judge
a sausage by its skin, but modern adver-
tising is built largely on the assumption
that most people do.
• ' •
Guinea gets a full seat on U.N.0.,
not a half-seat (B. 10 /12/’5B). At the
Security Council meeting which approved
Guinea as the 82nd member, the voting
was 10 in favor : none against. France
abstained from voting.


Personal
ITEMS
Promoted Chief Inspector of the
Westralian C. 1.8., 54-year-old John Ivor
Johnston is one of the third generation
of a family of policemen. His grand-
father was a sergeant of police in Vic-
toria in the days of Ned Kelly. His
father was formerly Chief Inspector in
Westralia. The new Chief Inspector
worked for five years on sheep-stations
near Broome before joining the Westra-
lian force in 1924.
• •
Claimed to be the oldest competing
rifleman in the British Commonwealth,
Dugald Leitch was born in Scotland in
July, 1868, came to Australia at the age
of five and has been handling a rifle
since 1899. He served with the Austra-
lian forces in the Boer War and was a
sniper with the old 11th Battalion in
War I, losing a leg at Pozieres. At a
recent Rifle Union shoot at Bunbury
(W.A.), he scored eight bulls straight at
700yds., then finished, to his disgust,
with a maggie and an inner.
• •
Sir William Slim makes an official visit
to New Zealand early in January —Sir
Dallas Brooks, Governor of Victoria,
will act as G.-G.
• •
Succeeding Captain O. H. Beecher,
R.A.N. (B. 3/12/’5B) in command of
H.M.A.S. Melbourne, Captain T. K.
Morrison comes from doing a course
at the Imperial Defence College in
London. Before going there, he was
Australian Naval Attache in Washington.
Captain Morrison won the 0.8. E. in the
Somaliland operations early in War II
and later added a D.S.C. for his work
at Lingayen and Leyte.
• •
After a look-round at British Petro-
leum, Ltd.’s, shows in other parts of the
world, John Thorne Martin is settling-in
as Victorian manager of BP Australia.
A South Australian who captained his
State’s side in lacrosse, he was with the
9th Division in the Middle East. Trans-
ferring to the 6th Div. on return to Aus-
tralia, he was posted to Darwin in charge
of 2nd Echelon, and later became officer-
in-charge of enlistments for the occupa-
tion forces in Japan.
Most of his post-war term with BP has
been as manager in Westralia. He was
there from 1951 to 1958, during which
time the biggest refinery in Australia was
opened at Kwinana (1955)
• •
“Duke” Tritton, of “Time Means
Tucker,” dropped-in to 252 George
Street to explain that the hordes of
children he seemed to be shooing out
of the room when The Bulletin first
rang him up weren’t his own —just three
of his grandsons. But his prowess re-
mains pretty clearly demonstrated in
these figures: 10 children, - 30 grand-
children, 18 great-grandchildren and “two
more on the way.”
• •
“S.W.”: When the present writer
barges through the door of the
managerial sanctum in search of fer-
mented and spirituous, which are part
PUBLICITY MAN
of the hospitality dispensed on opening-
nights at the Firm's Sydney shows, he
usually comes face-to-chest with a burly
figure, one large hand outstretched.
He steps back a pace, eyes cast upwards
at 45 deg., the better to get a gink at
his genial greeter, who, of course, will
be Peter Morrison, J.C.W.’s publicity-
manager, limned here by Dubois.
Kicking-off as a med. student, Peter
quickly realised that the pen, and not
the scalpel, was his true instrument, and
soon articles and short - stories were
streaming off. Two-and-a-half years with
the A.I.F. interrupted the flow; then
he was editor of the “Broadcasting, TV
and Film Monthly” and managing-editor
of “Film Weekly” before landing his
present billet two years ago. Executive
duties, however, haven’t given journalism
the k.o. -there are still programme-notes
and the Firm’s racy news-bulletiqs.
• •
“Wilkie”: Westralian first-grade
University cricket-team will bet on the
accuracy of their scorebook —it's kept by
Dr. Hans Briner, lecturer in Maths, at
the Uni. Born in Hanover, Dr. Briner
studied in Breslau, Darmstadt and
Munich, coming to W.A. 21 years ago.
He was interested in tennis, soccer and
hockey in Germany, but knew nothing
of cricket and has not played it here.
He loves his busman’s holiday on a
Saturday afternoon, but recently had to
burn the midnight oil to get there —he
had 1500 Leaving maths.-papers on his
plate.
• •
R. Clammer, retiring as Superintendent
of Police at Rabaul, has a long record
of service with the Territory police. He
was in both wars and won both D.C.M.
and M.M., to which he recently added
the Queen's Police Medal. In War II
he raised and trained units of the Papuan
Infantry for service against the Japs.
• •
Born in Sydney and joining the Navy
at the age of 16 on the outbreak of
War 11, George Osgood went to sea in
H.M.A.S. Perth in 1940. He was in
action first in the Mediterranean, round
Greece and Crete, where the Perth was
damaged by the Luftwaffe. Back to Aus-
tralia for three-months’ refit, the Perth
was ordered to Java. In her next action,
after H.M.S. Exeter and two Dutch
cruisers had been sunk alongside her,
the Perth, in company with the U.S.S.
Houston, unable to fight any longer after
dispersed action, made for the Sunda
Strait, but both ships were sunk there.
Osgood was one of the survivors
picked-up by the Japanese. After nine
months as a p.-0.-w. in Java, he was
taken across to Changi and then sent for
over two years to the Burma-Siam rail-
way. His father, who was in the A.1.C.,
was also taken prisoner, and died as a
p.-0.-w. in Borneo. After the war
Osgood stayed in the Navy till 1949,
then came back to Sydney, and now,
having passed his exams., is well on the
way up the accountancy-ladder.
• •
A newcomer to the Senate next year
will be 40-year-old George Branson, a
farmer from Babakin (W.A.) who was
an “also-ran” three years ago. In World
War. II he went to Singapore with the
2/4th Machine Gun Battalion, and was
a p.-0.-w. in Thailand and on the Burma
railway. Since the war he’s been active
in R.S.L. affairs and in the W.A. Farmers’
Union.
• •
Retiring after 47 years in the Victorian
Lands Department, A. W. Mcllroy has
put forward a plan to relieve the State
of the burden of keeping-down vermin
and weeds on Crown lands —a job that
he himself has been superintending. He
suggests leasing the areas on renewable
25-year-terms at low rentals. His depart-
ment successor will be R. Tully, present
chief-inspector.
• •
“Uramao”: By qualifications of resi-
dence and regard, Rear-Admiral George
J. Dufek, who has commanded the
American Antarctic operations for the
past five years, has almost become a


New Zealander. He has taken a full part
in official and social life round Christ-
church, flown many of the bigwigs down
as guests to the polar regions, and sent
his family to schools in Maoriland while
he’s been away bossing the show in the
Antarctic. He retires from the' U.S.
Navy next September, and says he has a
feeling that he will come back to N.Z.
His successor, Rear-Admiral David
Merrill Tyree, was a classmate of his at
Annapolis naval-academy.
• •
Rev. E. K. Leslie, appointed Bishop
of Bathurst, is an old-boy of Trinity
Grammar School (Melbourne), and pro-
vides the second link between his school
and the N.S.W. city. Trinity’s first head,
George Merrick Long (father of Gavin
Long, editor of Australia’s official history
of War II), also became Bishop of
Bathurst. Leslie was ordained in 1934
and after several years in the N.T.
became a chaplain to the second A.I.F.
In recent years he has been chaplain to
the Timbertop branch of the Geelong
Church of England Grammar School.
• •
John Whyte Peden, who follows R. A.
Irish as president of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants in Australia, came
here from Scotland 50 years ago and
completed his education at Brisbane
Grammar. He’s a Scot-slightly-removed
in another sense: his parents would have
been in Scotland in time, but the barque
taking them there (his father was skipper)
was disabled in the South Atlantic, and
the expected event happened in Rio de
Janeiro instead. J.W. has now been in
practice as a chartered accountant for
30 years, with 20 years of that time the
accountants’ State registrar in Queens-
land. He’s been a member of the Local
Government Auditors Board for 15
years is a past-district-governor of
Rotary, and on the sporting side was a
foundation-president of Brisbane Junior
Football Association and is a past-
president of the Queensland Soccer
Association.
CHARTERED ACCOUNTANT
“C.R.”: Attending the South
African War Memorial service in Perth,
Lieut.-Colonel F. A. Hadley was the
only veteran present who had served
during last century he enlisted in
England in the Imperial Yeomanry in
November, 1899. When he came to Perth
and set up in practice in 1912 as a
surgeon he observed the surgeons’ con-
vention, then not quite understood in
Westralia, of prefixing his name on his
brass plate with “Mr.” instead of “Dr.”
During War I he commanded Fremantle
Base Hospital.
• •
Professor of Jurisprudence at Mel-
bourne University, D. P. Derham, is off
to India to help straighten-out problems
of inter-State trade similar to those
which have kept lawyers arguing over
our Section 92. He will be joined by
Constitutional-law experts from England,
America and New Zealand in tackling
the Indian questions.
• •
Once a year Frederick William Henry
Deacon, of Sydney, calls in at The
Bulletin to renew an old friendship.
A Queenslander, he was born under the
gumtrees, as he told the Queen Mother
during her visit, and in his younger days
he surveyed all over Queensland from
Burnett (where he was bom) to the Gulf
of Carpentaria. Coming to N.S.W., he
worked in Warringah shire, helping to
open-up the Black Swamp and make
the deviation on the Barrenjoey Road.
Deacon can show his pedigree in
Burke’s Landed Gentry of Ireland,
tracing his descent back to Robert
Deacon, a pikeman in the army of
William of Orange and cadet of a
Gloucestershire family, who settled in
1690 near Loughgall in County Armagh.
This district breeds fighting-men—Field-
Marshal Templer hails from there as
well—and Deacon has kept on that tradi-
tion in what he’s done.
• •
A. J. C. Hall and J. C. Hayes, scientists
of the defence - standards laboratories,
have won awards in the Waverley Gold
Medal Essay—the second time officers
from the C.5.1.R.0. have been successful
in these world competitions. The Hall-
Haves paper was on the subject of form-
ing permanent, metallic scales or graticu-
lation in glass for use in optical instru-
ments.
• •
New chief - inspector of secondary
schools in Victoria, James W. Mills has
had 44 years in the State’s Education
Department. Formerly a teacher at Mel-
bourne High School, he graduated to
inspector of secondary schools in 1944,
and has studied secondary education in
the U.K.
• •
In August, 1915, Richard Rodney
Gibbs, seconded from the A.I.F. in
Egypt to join the 2nd Battalion, South
Wales Borderers, as a first reinforcement,
arrived' in their trenches near Gully
Ravine, Gallipoli. It was dark when he
reported himself to his new company-
commander, an officer with the most
polished manners, a pronounced stutter
and a complete disregard for danger.
The new arrival was greeted: “How
d’you d-do, G-Gibbs? I’m just.g-goin’
out to h-have a 1-look at the wire.
GULLY RAVINE
T-takin’ C-Corporal Williams with m-me.
Would you c-care to j-join us?” So out
into No Man’s Land!
Christened the “Bloody Colonial” by
his adopted regiment, Gibbs (pictured
here) became bombing-officer and was
twice wounded. After one action at
Cape Helles, he says, of the eight sur-
viving officers of this battalion, four
were Australians. He came home in
1919, managed for the Bank of New
South Wales in Kalgoorlie, Bendigo,
Berkeley Square (London) and Geelong,
and these days has a property at Barwon
Heads (Vic.).
• •
Into the Silence:
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 67, Thomas Bendle
Cavaghan, sec.-treas. of Ford Co. (N.Z.). A
native of Carlisle, he joined the Ford Co. in
Canada in 1920, moved to Australia in 1924
to become general accountant of the co. and
crossed the Tasman in 1935 to help organise
the co. in N.Z. He was a director till a
couple of years ago.
At 74, Thomas Edward Sweet, managing-
director and founder of Harbour Newspapers
and publisher of one of the largest groups
of trade journals in Australia. Formerly
Sydney correspondent of Melbourne “Age,” and
a fine descriptive writer.
In Edinburgh, at 82, Captain Henry Peel
Ritchie, first British naval officer to win the
Victoria Cross in the 1914-18 war. He won
it as a commander in operations at Dar-es-
Salaam (East Africa) in 1915.
In Perth, at 80, Walter Maxwell Nairn,
Liberal M.H.R. for Perth from 1929 to 1943.
Born in Victoria, he worked as a journalist
before being admitted to the Westralian Bar in
1909. He won the Perth seat from E. A. Mann
(afterwards known to A.B.C. listeners at “The
Watchman”) and was Speaker from 1940 until
defeated in the 1943 elections.


ABORIGINALITIES
Y'ame as a bit of a shock to hear, at
our Rotary Club weekly-dinner, the
guest-speaker, a young man who had
been a member of a party which took
a consignment of Corriedale sheep to
Israel, say that in agricultural methods
Israel was ahead of Australia. He said
the sheep were imported to boost meat-
production rather than wool, though the
Australians had taken along shearing-
gear to teach the locals. He staggered
his listeners by disclosing that 100 tons
of lucerne to the acre had been cut in a
year, and this was conserved in above-
ground ensilage-silos. There were no
fences around the holdings, but sheep
were guarded by shepherds from
marauders. And no wonder! Value of
each sheep was £lBO, rated more valu-
able than cattle. —“T.S.M.”
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: That Eastern tractor the
water - buffalo is always haloed by a
squadron of midges in clockwise flight.
When he hears the noon signal he
smartly unharnesses by kneeling, bend-
ing head flat to the ground, and insinuat-
ing one horn-tip behind the yoke and
wriggling it free over the other horn
and down his face. He then relaxes into
his midday wallow, and his animated
halo stacks itself 6in. above his only
unsubmerged trace the barely-surfaced
nostrils —to await his hour-later re-
emergence. I am unaware what his
midges do after dark, but it would be
of interest to know if our N.T. buff, has
this insect-escort, and whether, conso-
nant with the antipodean outgurgling of
bath-water, it reverses to an anti-clock-
wise movement.
* * * *
“Mary C.”: Cables told us that at a
banquet in England to celebrate the
fourth centenary of the succession of
Queen Elizabeth I, Royal swans were
served, permission having been obtained
from the Lord Chamberlain. Years ago
on the Burdekin (N.Q.) the local sergeant
of police was farewelled at the pub.
Jugged-hare, wild-duck and turkey were
on the menu, the guest-of-honor being
unaware that the “jugged-hare” he had
enjoyed was actually black swan. Like
their Royal counterparts, they also were
protected birds.
* * * *
“R.F.D.S.”: A famous Henry Lawson
story brought right up to date. The wife
of a British migrant employed at an
outstation 14 miles from the homestead
interrupted a school-of-the-air broadcast
with an urgent appeal to the Port Augusta
(S.A.) control-station of the Royal Flying
Doctor Service. She was on her own
with four small children (three of whom
were taking lessons from the school),
and asked that her husband, who was
working at the homestead, which is 140
miles from Port Augusta, be contacted
and sent home immediately—there was
a large brown snake beneath the bath.
The control-station phoned the home-
stead through Woomera. Intruder duly
dispatched.
❖ ❖ ❖ *
'T'he blackboy ( Xanthorrhcea ) is
regarded as one of our slowest-
growing plants, and, although its rate of
growth varies in different localities, you
can take it that a specimen 10ft. high
will be well over 1000 years old. So the
rate at which it produces its flowering
ZOO MEDITATION
On the whole I prefer the monkeys.
At least they are not patiently humbled.
For how can I love the patient plod of
the elephant
With this bundle of brats lolloping on
her back?
How can I drink the river-lapse of the
tiger's stalking
Bottled up in two-lengths-and-a-turn-and-
hungrily-over-again?
As for the hippopotamus
He simply stands and stinks.
No doubt he does much the same
On the vast savannahs of Africa,
But there he is not fenced about with
fas tid io us n ostrils.
But, behold the larrikin monkey
Who smites his captor with impudent
parody.
He strips the decent trousering from our
greed
With twenty fingers clutching at nuts.
He scratches with open vulgarity,
And even while we pride ourselves on the
superior hygiene of homo sapiens,
A vague emphatic itch
Demands furtive massage.
Then he leaves this mere mocking at
manners
To probe at the spirit's concealments.
Across the forest of his cage, suddenly
he flings
Upward cascades, hosannas of somersault.
Soaring in ecstasies suave as the swallow’s.
Then he sinks again relaxed with even
breath,
And the malice of an eye makes pro-
nouncement :
“Oh, my merely two-handed brother of
the cadet branch,
Have l touched the flinching-point of
your secret?
You too are visited
By the thirst of flying
Which you must slake as best you may
With the desperate foot on the accelerator,
With wistful legends of angelic destiny.
But there are no wings stored up for you
in Heaven.
You have-left them behind in the forest
With the twisting tail and the feet that
curl.
I inherit by primogeniture.”
Come, ,my son doomed to manhood,
Let us depart with dignity
And soothe the lacerated ego
With lemonade.
VIC.
ARTHUR PHILLIPS.




spike indicates the tremendous urge
which stirs in plants when the cells which
determine the flowering cycle take-over.
Whereas the trunk advances at the rate
of an eighth of an inch a year, the spike
races 6ft. or more in a couple of months.
As it reaches the limit of its growth, over-
night a line of white flowers appears along
its entire length, down the sunny side,
and within a week the spike is a mass of
bloom. A fair-sized spike would carry
thousands of flowers, which produce a
nectar that attracts a wide variety of
insects (including imported bees) for
something like a fortnight; then the
flowers are dead, the seeds are forming
and the spike is drying. And
Xanthorrhcea is relaxing into its slow,
steady, primitive rate of growth, building
up the strength to embark on another
flowering spree when its mysterious
inherent forces say the time is ripe.—
“Spin.”
* * * •
“Jeyles": The kookaburra with exclu-
sive prospecting-rights to our front lawn
was doing all right in the pouring rain,
but in making a short 45-deg. flight to
his roof - spouting lookout he failed by
“What did they lock YOU up for ?”
a good 4in. to accomplish the elevation,
and only got his beak where his landing-
gear should have been. He air-tumbled
3ft. and flew home in low dudgeon. Old
Brushback had just omitted to allow for
being loaded over Plimsoll, with wet
feathers to boot.
* # * *
“Manamoi”: “D.W.’s” solicitor
wouldn’t have raised a smile in the
U.S.A., where young horses of both sexes
are called colts. Thus, when Thorne
Smith stated in The Passionate Witch
that the old mare, Rummy, had been
a colt in the first Mrs. Wooly's time,
he didn’t mean that she had since changed
her sex, however much, after being be-
witched, she had changed her nature.
’yHHAT mechanism sends whole bat-
talions of cicadas, wherever they
be, into united chorus on the tick of
9.15, 12.15 and 7.15, each session lasting
a quarter of an hour, and not one laggard
either at “Go” or “Whoa”? —“Halque.”
* * *
“Manamoi”: Among this spring’s crop
of stories about nesting plovers, my
favorite came from Glen Innes (N.S.W.),
where two pairs nested on the airfield.
One nest, near the apron where loading
takes place, got the full blast of the slip-
stream as aircraft revved-up and began
to taxi. The other was so close to a
runway that an aircraft ran over and
smashed one of the eggs. But it takes
more than that to bluff spurwings, their
defence, as usual, taking the form of
noisy attacks on the intruding aircraft.
Soon the nests were discovered, each was
ringed with a white-painted tyre, and
pilots carefully avoided both areas till
the young left home.
m * *
“Kerba”: In a dressing - room at
Sydney’s Jubilee Oval the caretaker
showed me a rough oval 12in. by Bin.
that had been pushed up fully 3in. Tn
the hole grew two mushrooms. The dis-
placed piece weighed 101 b., and a test
with pick and 141 b. hammer proved that
the slab of asphalt could have withstood
a pressure of more than 1001 b. per sq.-ft.
Mushrooms have long been credited with
such lifting feats, but, although seeing
is believing, it is impossible for anything
so soft to lift a substance so hard. There
can be only one explanation: the fungus
can generate some form of expanding
gas.
* * *
“Miss M.”: The 70-odd honeyeaters
mentioned by “Cisticola” (B. 15/10/’5B)
include three wattle-birds (Antochaera ) —
the “little” and “red” species described
by “Gravelsnatcher” (B. 12/11 /’5B), and
the yellow wattle-bird (Antochcera para-
doxa) of Tasmania. Before the red and
yellow kinds were protected many were
slaughtered, as the flesh of both is good
eating. For this reason the red wattle-
bird is sometimes called a muttonbird —■
not to be confused with the famous
muttonbirds of Bass Strait, which are
shearwaters.
* * * *
“H.C.8.”: Here in the ivory tower to
which “Sevenelms” banished me (B.
3/12/’5B) I yearn for the gift of but half
his egotism. He dismisses airily the
accumulated know-how of Sydney Tech-
nical Colleges’ 70 years of study on the
subject, assisted by the Division of Forest
Products of C.5.1.R.0. experiments on
.timber-seasoning. I would point to the
instances of uncollapsed timber —and
beautiful examples of it —extant all over
the world—timber seasoned centuries ago
without benefit of kiln-drying. As to his
claim that all eucalyptus timber
“collapses” if air-dried, has anybody ever
heard of bridge-timbers being kiln-dried?
Or seen them distorted with “collapse”?
And there is only one fitting punishment
for the perpetrator of the libel that cells
of Australian hardwoods are weakened
by air-drying—a couple of hours’ work
on a bone-dry ironbark-log with a Kelly.
* * * •
“Margaret”: “Hey’s” casting of
diamonds before jewies (B. 10/12/ ’58)
was before my time, but I know of
another diamond-ring missing, believed
swallowed, in the Longreach (Q.) district.
During the big drought in the late
’twenties the missus was helping the boss
handfeed sheep. At each watering-place
he’d pour the fodder into the feed-troughs
and she’d stir it around with her gloved
hands, then take off and shake the gloves.
Hours later she missed both her
engagement-ring and wedding-ring and,
despite backtracking and searching,
couldn't find them. Replacements were
bought; months passed; then a
jackeroo, cleaning one of the feed-
troughs, scraped out a lump which had
become damp and caked, crumbled it in
his hand, and there was the wedding-
ring! This of course led to exhaustive
searching for the engagement-ring, but
it was never found, and the conclusion
was that a sheep must have swallowed
it. The sheep would be dead long since,
and most of the former uses of sheep-gut
have been taken over by synthetics—still,
if anyone should find a diamond in his
sausage . . .
* * * *
Tt may be that a few lines of type slipped
out of place, but, having regard for
the enterprise of Australia's little budgeri-
gar, I’m willing to accept at its face-value
this enlightening fragment from a Vic-
torian country paper:
Good entries have been received for the
show to be conducted in the town hall
tomorrow by the Budgerigar Society. The
clash has been eagerly awaited and should
•provide entertaining cricket . . .
Soon, no doubt, we shall be hearing of
budgies, stationed on the Hill at Sydney
Cricket Ground, raising their voices in the
time-honored cry, “Git a bag!”—“Siosal.”


Time Means Tucker
By H. P. (“DUKE”) TRITTON
Illustrations chiefly from contemporary issues of The Bulletin.
Both of them 19-year-olds, the writer and his mate Dutchy have set out from
Sydney on a breezily adventurous wander about the N.S.W. outback, learning
to become shearers, doing fencing contracts and having a go at gold-digging,
singing and taking the hat round in the towns, boxing in show booths, meeting
picturesque characters, and generally getting to know the bush and bush folk,
and taking life as they find it. They have gone by boat to Newcastle, headed
west from there, jumped the rattler to Narrabri, and, characteristically, have done
their share with other volunteer firefighters in saving that town from being burnt
down. After such jobs as helping to class 30,000 sheep ready for shearing and load-
ing and cutting firewood for the old river-boats, they have had a look at the Light-
ning Ridge opal-field, and have arrived at Brewarrina in time for the 1905 Show.
(
Brewarrina was decked-
out for the Annual Show,
which was starting the
next Friday. The Show
was on Friday and Monday,
with races on the Saturday.
We reckoned we would pick up
a few quid, as there was a
good crowd in town.
We went to the Barwon
Hotel, and Dutchy leaned
casually against a post under
a light and started off with
“Mother Machree.” A crowd
soon gathered round him, but
he took no notice, and went
as if he was singing for his own
pleasure.
When the song ended and the
applause broke out, he looked
surprised, and moved to go.
This brought a chorus of
“Come on, lad, give us some
more! ” Then a woman’s voice
chimed in: “Why, he’s only a
boy, the poor little fellow!”
(She didn’t know Dutchy.) He
sang “Annie Laurie” and, as he
finished, I was going through
with the hat. I sang a parody
on “Two Little Girls in Blue,”
and got a good hand, but
Dutchy was the one they
wanted. He sang Irish, Scotch
and Christy Minstrel ballads,
with me giving an. occasional
song, for two hours. And the
crowd still wanted more. I
kept-up the good work of
collecting, and when we finally
got away I had over £2, which
was a lot of money in those
days, when the rate for most
bush work was £1 a week.
Dutchy Bishop was the best
straight singer I have ever
heard. His voice was high
and clear, and he sang with no
effort. He could bring tears
into the eyes of tough-looking
men, and women cried as a
matter of course. He knew
how to hold an audience.
■Criday was a nice day. We
A were on the ground early,
renewing acquaintances from
Gunnedah. Charlie Prince
was one of the first we met.
He was no longer interested in
boxing, but had a buckjump-
show. He took me round to
George Ruenalf, and intro-
duced me as a chap who would
put on a good show with the
gloves.
George Ruenalf was a Maori
who had recently been narrowly
beaten, on points, for the Aus-
tralian heavyweight champion-
ship by Peter Felix. He was
pleased with Prince's recom-
mendation, and said I could
spar with him when he opened-
up after lunch.
Wandering around the
show, one of the local squatters
asked if we would come to the
ball that night and put over
a few songs, for which he
would pay £l. This suited us
nicely. Dutchy could have had
two spars in the tent, but he
turned them down, as sing-
ing was much easier. Also he
preferred to watch me take a
hiding than get one himself.
During the conversation
with the squatter, Mr. Hall,
whose property adjoined
Charlton, we had mentioned
that we were going to Charlton
for the shearing. He intro-
duced us to the manager, Mr.
Lacky Syrma, an Australian-
born Syrian. As the shearing
did not start for a month, he
said we could fill in time
driving poison-carts. We
accepted the offer, though it
was only £1 a week and tucker,
We then had a look round
the Show. There was plenty to
interest us. Madam Cora, the
fortune-teller, had a line of
people waiting to have a peep
into the future. She was a
massive woman of 16st. Her
husband was a little pudgy
man, who was also her
spruiker. He had a quaint
falsetto voice, and his only line
was “Consult Madame Corwah
for your futuah.” It must have
been effective, for she was
doing a great trade.
Nearby was Paddy Piggot,
one of the famous spruikers of
the time. His bull voice was
raised to advertise a giant:
“A terrible big man. A giant!”
Peanut Percy MacDonald
had a stall with salted-peanuts
and a confection called “Zee-
nuts.” He was doing plenty of
business, helped along by his
smart patter.
The Wheel of Fortune was
relieving the citizens of their
cash in the nicest possible
manner.
At the race-game The Bolter
always won when Esmeralda,
the favorite, was well backed.
But none seemed to worry. It
was the Show, and the people
were enjoying themselves.
.Narda, the Snake Girl, had
20 sleepy-looking reptiles,
which she handled with an air
of boredom. The women and
children of the town were
thrilled with her display, but
the bush kids, to whom snakes
were an everyday occurrence,
were not greatly impressed.
“Professor” Morrison was
selling a pinkish concoction, at
ss. per Boz. bottle, and being
rushed by his clients. (Years
afterward I met him in Syd-
ney. He had a successful busi-
ness in one of the suburbs,
but said he could make mora
money following the shows. He
gave me the recipe for “Prof.
(Continued on page 44)


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. URQUHART, M. D. PASSMORE, K. W. A. BRIDGES
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
25 O’CONNELL STREET
SYDNEY
Telephone
BW 8171 (3-lines)
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECELEX,” Sydney
J. T. HARRY & DIXON
(Eric E. Dixon, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
1 13 Pitt St.,
Sydney
Telephone: BL 1987
Tel. Add.: “Harry Stock Exchange,” Sydney
Business, Robbery, Etc.
VICTOR ELECTRIC PLASTER MILLS
products represent a
key industry in Australia
that has had comparatively
little Stock Exchange attention
until the past 18 months, and
more particularly since presen-
tation of the last accounts of
the three holding-cos. in Aus-
tralian Gypsum Products Pty.,
Ltd.
Operations of the A.G.P.
group have seen much more of
the light of day over the past
two years, following the
capitalisation of £375,000 of
reserves among the three
holding-cos. out of a revalu-
ation of assests to the extent
of £446,628. (Capital of
A.G.P. rose from £1,000,000
to £1,375,000 in this operation.)
Following that capitalisation
Victor Electric Plaster Mills,
Ltd., came out of its incor-
porated privacy and placed
enough shares with the public
to qualify for listing on Mel-
bourne ’Change. Peninsula
Plaster, Ltd., in the same city,
did the same thing at the same
time.
The position now is that the
capital of Australian Gypsum
Products Pty. is held two-
fifths (£550,000 in £1 ords.) by
Victor Electric Plaster, two-
fifths (£550,000) by Australian
Gypsum, Ltd., and one fifth
(£275,000) by Peninsula Plaster,
Ltd.
The paid capitals of the three
holding - cos. are, respec-
tively, £525,000, £525,000
and £262,500 (aggregating
£1,312,500, or £62,500 less than'
that of A.G.P.). Everything is
so orderly on the capital side
that the holder of 100 shares in
any of the three public cos.
has an equal equity in the
operating co., and to all
intents and purposes a £1 share
in each should have the same
market-value.
Results aired by the
operating co. for the second
year sustain the hopes aroused
in shareholders after the first
year’s accounts; earning-
muscle and financial liquidity
are still well in evidence.
Though turnover is not dis-
closed, it was again a record,
and the co. is not complaining
about conditions in the build-
ing trade, on which its future
so much depends.
Group trading-profit was
•shown £129,611 higher at
£806,796 ; income from invest-
ments was up £6863 at £38,242 ;
and after setting aside £150,917
(up £26,658) for depreciation,
an unchanged £6lOO directors’
fees, and £300,338 (up £57,096)
for taxation,, net group
profit was £52,720 higher at
£387,683:
Australian Gypsum Products Pty.,
Ltd., and Subsidiaries.
Re-
Jne.,Profit. —Dividend—serves.
££ * £
Profit sale fixed assets,
£4685 1,144,867
’57..334,963 8.9 p.e. =117.250 1,362,580
Profit sale fixed assets,
£17,219 .... . . 1,379,799.
Shares w/down, £44,550 .. 1,335,249
Tax overprovided, £18,633 1,353,882
’58..387,683 10 p.c. =137,500 1,604,065
Of the net-profit total, the co.
treats £lOO,OOO as “provision
for increased cost of plant-
replacement” (£75,000 last
year); but it may be fairly
accounted as profit on the
external evidence available. If
the taxation provision is a
true guide, the group has pro-
vided for a tax-liability on a
tax-paid profit of £500,000
(against £405,0G0 in the pre-
ceding year). These “worked-
back” figures are equal to 38
p.c. (1957-58) and 30.8 p.c.
(1956-57) on the total capitals
of the three holding-cos., while
the profits shown in the fore-
going table are equal to 29.5
p.c. and 25.5 p.c. respectively.
Whichever way you look at
it, the 10 p.c. divs. paid by the
public cos. were easily covered
indeed, and the relationship
of profits to dividends is one
to arouse anticipations for the
future.
For the present, the group
is going through a period of
expansion that is absorbing
ploughed-back profit. Last
term all the shares in Murray
Valley Plaster Pty. and Murray
Valley Gypsum Pty. were
acquired, and the excess cost
over their par-value (£44,550)
was written-off.
☆ ☆ ☆
Subsidiaries and Operations. —
The principal subsidiaries of
A.G.P. are Australian Plaster Indus-
tries Pty., Waratah Gypsum Pty.,
Insulwool Products Pty., Beljco Pty.,
and Australian Plaster Co. Pty.
The group mines gypsum (which
is used for the making of plaster-
ot-Paris, as an ingredient in Port-
land cement, and as a soil-improver)
at Kowulka and Stenhouse Bay
(S.A.), Ivanhoe (N.S.W.), Mildura
(Vic.) and in the Victorian Mallee.
It has plaster-mills at Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Thevenard (S.A.),
Mildura (Vic.) and Auckland (N.Z.),
and these produce fibrous-plaster
sheeting, plaster-board, hard wall-
plasters (under the Victor and
Waratah trade-names), and dental
and surgical plasters.
Perlite is mined at Nerang (Q.)
and processed in Sydney; it is used
for fireproofing and lightweight
insulation of modern buildings, and
the expanded ore is used as an
aggregate with plaster or cement.
Insulwool is an insulation for
homes and commercial buildings, as
well as for appliances requiring
temperature-control; it is also used
as an acoustic. A wide range of
other acoustic products is turned
out, including the plaster Perfotile,
and the group’s own contracting
organisation will undertake acoustic
installations. School chalks are
also produced under the name of
Bellco, and others by arrangement
with Reeves, of London. The group
makes Burgess micro-switches to
provide automatic control of many
operations.
☆☆ . ☆
Record tonnages of gypsum
were mined last year, sales of
plaster, plasterboard and
acoustical products increased,
and though Insulwool Products
Pty. met with more difficult
trading conditions, its profits
were “satisfactory.”
Further gypsum deposits
have been secured, and reserves
of gypsum are now regarded as
being adequate for the whole
group. While building-
construction remains at high
level, the board confidently
expects expansion of the group
to continue. Its chief competi-
tor is the C.S.R.
A new freehold for a plaster-
mill has been bought at Port
Melbourne, and extensions are
being made to the Sydney and
Adelaide mills. Extensions to
other factories are going on.
It is anticipated that capital-
outlay will be “financed from
cash resources available to
the company” so that neither
shares (for cash) nor notes are
likely to be offered within the
foreseeable future.
Acquisitions of the Mel-
bourne freehold and the
Mildura assets are partly
responsible for the increase in
fixed assets last term:
Australian Gypsum Products Pty.,''
Ltd., and Subsidiaries.
1957. 1958.
Paid capital .. £1,375,000 £1,375,000
Reserves .. 1,362,580 1,604,005
Bank overdraft.. 249,878
Creditors and tax
provision . . 625,332 687,486
Deposits .. 68,750 68,750
£3,431,602 £3,985,179
Freeholds, lease-
holds, plant .. 1,547,161 2,230,941
Shares associated
-cos. .. .. 74,382 83,114
Stocks .. .. 580,066 641,591
Debtors . . . . 551,673 684,305
Cash, investments,
etc 678,380 345,228
£3,431,602 £3,985,179
The growth in “freehold and
leasehold land and buildings”
was £606,211 (to £1,667,000);
“machinery, plant and equip-
ment (at cost)” rose £200,423
to £1,675,579. Accumulated
depreciation (£1,111,638) is
deducted from the total of
both these items, and shown
net in one figure (£2,230,941).
Quite apart from provision
for plant-replacement, treated
as true reserves in these tables
and calculations, depreciation
does not appear to have been
underestimated.
Capital-outlay during the
year has involved some call on
liquid resources and created a
bank-overdraft of £249,878, but
reserved profit and other
retentions have made the
financial going comparatively
easy. Stocks and debtors show
increases consistent with the
year’s increased turnover.
When current earnings of the
business are relieved of the
current capital outgoings (with
the reasonable possibility of
increased capacity and effi-
ciency being reflected in
greater profits), a higher pro-
portion of earnings could be
distributed to the public-
company shareholders if trade
is maintained. And it may
be noted that the total of un-
distributed earnings over the
past two years has been almost
equal to the amount distributed
in bonus shares just over a year
ago.
On conservative balance-
sheet figures the backing for
Victor Electric Plaster £1 shares
is 475. The market (which
has taken a smart up-
ward move recently) currently
prices these shares at 465. for
a yield of £4 7s. per cent. For
those who are prepared to
wait two or three years for


A
lltt
D
■w
«*r '-Vi< ~o
%:;,
J
Let A.N.Z. BANK make all your
travel arrangements
Th eir travel experts will be happy to attend to sea and air bookings,
accommodation, assist you with tax arrangements, passport and visas
—in short, every detail of your trip. Travel abroad with the knowledge
that everything is handled reliably through A.N.Z. BANK.
Money for Travel
Whenever you travel, carry A.N.Z. Bank Travellers' Cheques. Readily
encashable, they are the safe, convenient way of carrying money.
Travellers' Credits, which enable you to draw money at A.N.Z. Bank
branches and agents throughout the world, are also available, if desired.
A.N.Z. Bank Travel Service is available through every branch of
AN’Z
TO
ANZ536.2458R
. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
something better they still have
attractions.
H.-p, and Life-assurance
r T~'HE fire-and-accident in-
. surance subsidiaries of
both Australian Guarantee
Corporation, Ltd., and Custom
Credit Corporation, Ltd.,
recently made moves to enter
the life-assurance field.
Transport and General In-
surance Co., Ltd., A.G.C.’s sub-
sidiary, has registered a sub-
subsidiary to transact “all
classes of life-assurance busi-
ness.” The life-company is
called Transport and General
Life Assurance Co., Ltd. (An
abbreviation of this title could
be confusing, with the Temper-
ance and General already well
established in the field.)
National and General In-
surance Co., Ltd., a wholly-
owned subsidiary of Custom
Credit formed in 1954, itself
aims to spread ultimately into
“all forms of life, endowment
and probate assurance.”
These developments are
typical of the present trend
towards diversification of
activities of financial institu-
tions—the life-offices starting
to transact fire and accident
business and establishing
trustee and “nominee” com-
panies, the banks tying-up
with h.-p. concerns and fixed
trusts, and the Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance link with
Alliance Acceptance Corp.
In the life-assurance field
itself, several British offices are
already writing business in
Australia, and many more are
surveying the landscape.
A further development has
been takeover offers made by
an Australian fire-insurance
office and another bidder for
one of the younger Australian
life-offices.
The true potential of many
of these developments has yet
to be assessed. In earlier days
establishing a new life-office
was a very long and tender
process, and of the swarm of
flotations of the early 1920’s in
Australia only one or two have
been really successful.
But under the wing of estab-
lished h.-p. organisations (with
those h.-p. concerns in turn
associated with big trading-
banks) the story may be
different, especially if a limited
range of policies is written.
The success of the old-
established Legal and General,
of the U.K., in its first few
years of life underwriting in
Australia has attracted the
interest of many newcomers.
In life-assurance* more
clearly than in any other type
of enterprise, it is results —
as they show up in surpluses
and bonus-rates —that count.
Bonuses depend (all premiums
being equal, that is) on the suc-
cessful selection of favorable
life-risks, on the economy with
which policies are sold and
the life-office conducted in
general, and on the net rate
of interest earned on the
investment of the life-assurance
funds.
Linoleum Holdings
■poß several years it has been
obvious that Michael
Nairn and Co. (Aust.) Pty.,
Ltd., has been undercapitalised,
which had the effect of cur-
tailing dividends to its own
shareholders (principally
Michael Nairn and Co. in
Scotland, and Linoleum Hold-
ings, Ltd., and Meggitt, Ltd.,
in Australia) and the retention
of the greater part of each
year's earnings in the business
to finance expansion.
Though earnings of the
operating co. have fluctuated
considerably, until import-
restrictions were relaxed two
or three years ago it appeared
to be privately revealing profits
averaging about 34 p.c. on its
capital after making unspeci-
fied tax provisions. More
recently. the rate of disclosed
earning seems to have been
around 16 p.c.-17 p.c. on capi-
tal. But the dividend has been
kept at 8 p.c. for the poorer
years, 10 p.c. for the better
ones. And, even allowing for
expenditure in the term to Sep-
tember 30, 1957, fixed assets


BANKING SERVICES
are many and varied
EXPERIENCED COUNSEL
The Bank’s 123 years’ experience
and its wide knowledge of com-
mercial and industrial activities is
freely available to customers who
seek it.
-JSS',
Wh
INTEREST-BEARING
DEPOSITS
Interest-bearing deposits with this
Bank provide a safe and flexible
means of investment.
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK
FACILITIES
An ever-increasing number of cus-
tomers use the C.B.C. Savings
Bank to make money grow. Open
an account to-day.
TRADE INFORMATION
The C.B.C. welcomes enquiries
regarding market locations and
trade introductions. It provides
a comprehensive service for
all classes of foreign banking
business.
The
Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. Savings Bank Limited
(DEPOSITS GUARANTEED BY THE PARENT COMPANY)
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROBERT FISHER late of 28
Bourke Street Wollongong.—T ARE
NOTICE that GLORIA FISHER has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4236 of
1958 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by the third day of
March 1959 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from JOHN D.
KENNEDY AND SONS, Solicitors, of
Manilla Street, Manilla, or their Sydney
Agents, NORMAN C. OAKES & SAGAR,
1-7 Bent Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
figure at only £441,401, against
stocks £1,212,127 and debtors
£565,881.
At that date Michael Naim
(Aust.) had a paid capital of
£500,000, reserves of £769,921,
and owed the bank and sundry
creditors £980,301.
The co. is now making an
issue of 250,000 £1 ords. at par,
ratio one for two, to those on
the register at March 31, 1959.
Linoleum Holdings has a
parcel of 106,666 shares in
Nairn’s, the same size as its
own paid capital, and it is
probable that it will make a
similar issue in a similar ratio
to its own shareholders.
Shares in Linoleum Hold-
ings, Ltd., have a considerable
growth potential. Whether the
introduction of a quarter-of-a-
million of new capital will
result in a liberalising of the
Nairn div.-rate remains to be
seen.
In view of the potential
behind them, Lino. ords. at
275. (the last sale) were a cheap
buy. At that figure they
returned 5.5 p.c. on a 7y p.c.
div. basis, and had a net tan-
gible backing in conservative
Nairn values equal to 495. 7d.
for each Lino. £1 share.
Kaufana Again
[From F. Owen]
When the Kaufana well was
spudded-in on 12/12/’57
by the Papuan Apinaipi
Petroleum Co., Ltd., it was
said that the bore was intended
to probe the gas horizon
which had been encountered in
in the nearby well on the Oroi
fold. This well was abandoned,
late in 1949 at 5516 ft., in
steeply-dipping strata.
At the time it was sug-
gested that conditions within
the Kaufana structure —whose
long axis runs parallel to that
of Oroi —might lead to the
striking of oil below the gas.
I never subscribed to any
of this thinking as I believed
—partly on regional grounds—
that the Oroi district offered
practically no hope of com-
mercial results, and I held that
opinion long before Austra-
lasian Petroleum had drilled
there.
It should be remembered
that a Shell subsidiary had sunk
a bore, 10 years previously, at
Rorona (some 25 miles s.e.
from Oroi) to a depth of
1222 ft., also without result.
Prior to 1949, Australasian
Petroleum carried out a
detailed survey of the Oroi
district, including the Kaufana
structure, but, evidently, it
did not consider Kaufana /
worth testing after the failure
at Oroi. It is difficult, therefore,
for me to imagine grounds
which justified the choice of the
Kaufana location.
At the time of spudding-in,
the bore was described as a
test well. Had it been intended
as a stratigraphic well, it
would have been very un-
likely to produce any worth-
while information not already
available from the Australasian
Petroleum work.
Its description as a “strati-
graphic'’ well was not made
public until the bore was
abandoned at 3380 ft., early in
1958. The announcement that
the work had been granted,
posthumously, a Common-
wealth subsidy, was not made
until February,. 1958.
A former chairman and
managing-director of Papi-
naipi, Rupert Richardson, has
recently described the Kaufana
location as “at or very close
to the least likely place to find
petroleum.” For once I am
in agreement with him.


“But she must have SOME goddam talent! She's been married to six motion-picture executives !”


SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
MUSIC OF 1958
Grand Opera
Home-produced opera got a
real shot irt the arm with the
production by the Elizabethan
Trust company—all principals
except one were Australians—
of two important works.
“Fidelio,” Beethoven's sole
excursion into the operatic
field, proved to be a winner,
although it is not in the
popular repertoires. Of great
vitality, orchestrally magnifi-
cent, and certainly not justify-
ing the charge sometimes
levelled at the composer that
he wrote indifferently for the
human voice, it benefited from
strikingly original settings and
production by Stefan Haag.
Benjamin Britten's contro-
versial contemporary opera,
“Peter Grimes,” a “first” on
the professional stage here,
was also a success, due in large
measure to its dramatic
strength and the ingenious
orchestral score, and much less
to the music allotted the voices.
Robin Lovejoy’s imaginative
production and scenery in this,
and his sparkling version of
Rossini’s “Barber,” bracketed
him with Haag as the best
artistic producers of opera
Australia has had in many
years. “Lohengrin” and
“Carmen” completed the
quintet of operas, all of them
presented with symphony
orchestras in the pit. A notable
season, pointing the way to
more ambitious projects under
the Trust’s policy.
Sylvia Fisher, Ronald Dowd,
Raymond Nilsson—all big
names in Covent Garden-
returned to notch triumphs,
along with first-rate local
singers such as Glenda Ray-
mond, Alan Light, Robert
Simmons, Neil Easton, Donald
Smith, Neil Warren Smith (a
bass of splendid promise), Joy
Mammen, Rosalind Keene and
Madge Stephens. Karl Rankl,
the imported conductor,
proved a good investment.
Gilsullivan
One of the youngest com-
panies ever gathered together
by the Firm gave a very bright
account of the chief operas in
the Gilsullivan repertoire, and
an airing of “Ruddigore”
which showed the mistake of
dropping it from earlier seasons
and proved if proof were
needed—that it is as good, in
both music and libretto, as
anything the pair wrote, and
better than most. The romantic
leads—Roslyn Dunbar, Jane
Martin, Terence O’Donohoe
and Eric Thornton —all with
tip-top voices and personalities,
could be looked at as well as
listened to with pleasure.
Grahame Clifford’s operatic
baritone backed-up his facile
comedy-work, and the same
can be said for all-rounder
Richard Watson. Evelyn
Gardiner, in the “battleaxe”
roles, sang just about as well as
ever.
Recitalists
Instrumentalists dominated
the field in this year’s line-up
of celebrities. David Oistrakh,
Soviet Russia’s chief fiddler,
drew magic sounds from his
Strad. and probably the biggest
box-office takings ever, with
nary a vacant seat. Yet only a
hair’s-breadth divides his art
from that of such other front-
rank bow-wielders as Menuhin,
Stern, Heifetz and Elman,, none
of whom were accorded such
adulation here.
The 15-year-old Israeli pro-
digy of the keyboard, Daniel
Barenboim, came, was seen,
and conquered with astonishing
technical and interpretative
mastery. In one memorable
programme he reeled off four
of Beethoven’s greatest sonatas
with the aplomb of a veteran
and the musical insight of a
born genius.
Another visiting pianist was
Eugene Istomin, the 32-year-
old American, who shared
with Barenboim a complete
absence of mannerisms and a
strong liking for the classical
repertoire. Also a fine pianist
was Moscow-born Eugene
Malinin, who evinced a favor
for the delicate traceries of
Chopin—which he played most
poetically—but also showed
that he could handle the
brilliant showiness of Liszt
with equal authority.
The Polish-born violinist
Ida Haendel impressed with
her concerto work early in
the season under Bernard
Heinze. The N.S.W. pianist
Gordon Watson was a virile
performer with orchestras in
well-wrought concertos by
Beethoven and Liszt.
Two singers made their
second tour of Australia for
the A.B.C. The stately Greek
beauty Elena Nikolaidi, ap-
proaching the peak of her art,
raised her rich contralto in
songs and arias strung over
three centuries and from many
lands. William Warfield, the
great American negro baritone
and a highly intellectual singer,
gave programmes which, in the
main, were heavy but worth
while. He invariably wound-
up with a group of spirituals
to send his audience home
delighted, repeatedly demon-
strating that he has no peer
in songs of pure devotion.
Rumanian Petre Munteanu
carried the banner of the tenor
voice. Of lyric quality, he kept
strictly within the limited gamut
of his volume to give artistic
interpretations of Wolf and
Schubert lieder and to range
mostly over early Italian songs
and the lighter arias of Italian
opera.
Orchestral Music
Rafael Kubelik, the Czech
conductor, made his third tour
of the Commonwealth. Show-
ing no whit less of the mercurial
vigor that marked his initial
appearance on the podium
here, he minted listenable music
with a fascinating mixture of
forthrightness and subtlety.
At least two first-perform-
ances of contemporary works
were given an airing the
First Symphony, by Polish
Joseph Tal, and the Suite from
“Lulu,” by Alban
neither would be missed.
Sir Bernard Heinze con-
ducted a comprehensive Con-
certo Festival in Sydney, and
it says much for the stoicism
and dedication of orchestra and
soloists that even a sweltering
February could neither dim
their ardor nor lower the high
standard of their work.
Chamber Music
Under the aegis of Musica
Viva, the Alma Trio (Maurice
Wilk, violin; Gabor Rejto,
’cello; and Adolph Bailer,
piano) combined beautiful tone-
balance, integration and love of
their art in their intimate
music-making. Another M.V.
offering was the Amadeus
String Quartet, their concerts
bringing the best audiences that
this purest form of ensemble-
playing has yet commanded.
The vigorous Musica Viva
Society, pursuing its encourage-
ment of local combinations,
brought together the Sydney
Sinfonietta, comprising five
wind-players from the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra, in some
first-rate music-making.
“Rocking the Town”
The main performer in this
current bill at Sydney Tiv. who
really rocks the theatre, if not
the town, is pianist Winifred
Atwell, whose vigorous and
infectious style threatened to
dislodge the cherubs from the
Tiv.’s ceiling and sent the audi-
ence home feeling that, if it
bad missed a bit in the early


part of the bill, it had got more
than its money’s worth from
Miss Atwell.
The show is a little thin in
the comedy department, More-
carnbe and Wise making too
much of too little, although
Ross and Howitt, miming to
recorded voices and music,
have their moments. The most
engaging humorist was juggler
Gaston Palmer, whose busy,
disarming patter* is as enter-
taining as his juggling—his
programmed, title, “Rhem-
brandt of Dexterity” seems an
unusual bit of juggling, too.
Apart from Miss Atwell, the
two most arresting acts on the
bill are provided by The Two
Earls, smooth and polished
acrobats, and the trio Sylver-
kings, the two lasses of the act
contorting and twisting them-
selves in sinuous “temple
dancing” that would turn a
python green with envy—or
whatever shade they turn when
in that sjate of mind.
❖ »> ❖
The Remarkable Sabrina
Everybody knows of that
indomitable woman Marjorie
Lawrence, who, at the height
of her career, was struck down
by poliomyelitis and triumphed
over a complaint which would
leave most people prostrate to
the end of their days, rising to
even greater heights in her pro-
fession. We used to see her in
Melbourne being wheeled onto
the stage of the Town Hall by
her doctor-husband, who had
devoted his life to her service,
or, if you like, to the service
of the Muse of music. She even
staged a comeback in opera,
singing and acting the role of
Isolde from a sofa. She must
have been an inspiration to
the hordes of young potential
prirna donnas who listened to
her singing.
The remarkable Sabrina, at'
present drawing the crowds to
Melbourne Tiv. in Bourke
Street, belongs to the same
category as Miss Lawrence.
She, too, was smitten with the
same complaint as Miss
Lawrence. She, too, triumphed
over a disability which would
defeat most sufferers.
Artistically, Sabrina isn’t
quite in the same exalted class
as Marjorie Lawrence she
can’t dance and she can’t sing
—but she understands the art
of innuendo. When, for
instance, she sings of the
allure of the flesh and the
beauty of the human body she
doesn’t produce acute embar-
rassment as do Syd and Max
Harrison, two comicalities in
evidence on the same pro-
gramme.
Two Plays
Chekhov’s “The Proposal”
and “The Women of Troy,” by
Euripides, presented by the
Auburn (Sydney) Evening
College Drama Group both
had their points, allowing for
limitations in cast and setting.
In “The Proposal” the young
man who comes for the hand
of the old landowner’s daughter
should be farcically serious,
and here Keith Loughland
scored, although he cast a
slight shadow over his potential
“Bread, Water, bread Water...."
with a certain mincing naivete.
As the girl’s father, Alan
Marsden had the right idea,
concentrating on stomach-
thrusting assertion and all the
rest of it. As the daughter, Jan
Seagrott was satisfactory,
except for an over-strident bout
of sobbing.
Two things emerged from
“The Women of Troy”: it’s
a play best done by more
polished rhetoricians, and the
translation (Phillip Vellacott)
is ponderously poetical.
Still, Ruth MacDonald’s
portrait of Hecabe, widow of
the dead King of Troy, was
pleasing in its general impact,
as was Patricia McEnerny’s
Cassandra. Menelaus, the
Greek general (John Tooth)
contrasted oddly with the
valiantly wooden Greek
soldiers, and of the women
themselves only Sue Campbell
managed to project insur-
mountable sorrow.
A. W.
*
Royal Concert Trust Fund
Prize
The Australian Musical
Association in London is hold-
ing its annual competition for
the Royal Concert Trust Fund
Prize for 1959. The competi-
tion for a prize of £lOO sterling
is open to performers in any
category vocalists, pianists
and orchestral instrumentalists
—of Australian nationality and
to British-born residents who
have lived in Australia for not
less than five years. Entries
close February 12, 1959.
A further prize of £lOO
sterling will be awarded to the
winner of the composers’ com-
petition for a chamber work
for two, three or four
instruments. Scores must be
submitted under a nom-de-
plume. Entries close April 2,
1959.
Age limits are: vocalists, not
more than 32 ; instrumentalists,
not more than 28 ; and com-
posers, not more than 35, by
December 31, 1958.
Details and entry-forms are
obtainable from Miss Strella
Wilson, Australia House,
London.
<* ❖ ❖
G.M.-H. Theatre Awards
Young Sydney actor. Peter
Kenna has won the 1958 Aus-
tralian play competiton con-
ducted by the Australian
Elizabethan Theatre Trust in
association with General
Motors-Holden’s, Limited. His
play, “The Slaughter of St.
Teresa’s Day” was chosen from
202 entries and wins £3OO plus
a bronze trophy designed by
Lyndon Dad s w e 11. The
“G.-M.H. Theatre Award”
competitions will be conducted
annually by the Australian
Elizabethan Theatre Trust to
encourage Australians to
engage in the different forms
of theatrical writing, including
opera, operetta, musicals and
ballet.
Second prize of £5O goes to
Jon Holliday, of Sydney, for
“Anchor Nuggett,” and the
third prize of £5O is shared by
Barry Pree, of North Adelaide,
for “A Fox in the Night,” and
David N. Ireland, of Thorn-
leigh (N.S.W.), for “Heirs of
the Dead Heart.”
Kenna’s winning play will be
presented by the Australian
Elizabethan Theatre Trust
during 1959, and may also be
broadcast.
Adjudicators for the 1958
competition were Kyl i e
Tennant and Mr. Hugh Hunt.
They also commended 12 other
entries written by Kevin Mc-
Namara, Creswick Jenkinson,
Robin Saxon Corfield, Marien
Dreyer, Alex Symons, George
Landen Dann, H. M. Willis,
Ray Mathew, Chris Gardner,
John Naish, Eunice Hanger
and John Vincent Warner.
Artbursts
Victorian Artists
Nature has a look-in in the
Greek landscapes of Sava
Canakis showing at the Vic-
torian Artists’ Society in Mel-
bourne. Although not pro-
found, his watercolor glimpses
are at least good souvenirs of
the sacred places immortalised
by Homer, Euripides and
Sophocles, the very names of
which can thrill us. The Pelo-
ponnese, the Temple of Jupiter,
Sounion, “Athens, View from
my Window,” are nicely
painted.
In Peter W. Clarke’s abstrac-
tions, watercolors and relief
sculptures Nature doesn’t get
a iook-in. Mr. Clarke has
found a use for the humble
tap-washer. He gums these on
amorphous patches of color
and gives the result titles like
“Potential Forces,” “Song of
the Sun Bird Rising,” “Rebirth
of the Sun,” etc.
Sometimes he varies these
pleasantries by drawing geo-
metrical figures on top of land-
scapes. No doubt the washers
symbolise something for the
artist, but they could hardly be
called art.
Films
“In Love and War”
Three love-stories are
synchromeshed in this Pacific
War film, the male principals
being U.S. Marines one
sergeant and two rankers, all
friends. Whilst the characters
are developed with no great


T.&G. Mutual Life
Society
Great Progress
ASSURANCES IN FORCE EXCEED £413.000.000.
At the 82nd Annual Meeting held on Wednesday, 17th December, at the
Society’s Head Office, the Chairman, Mr. H. G. Brain, said:—
“I have pleasure in reporting
once again that the Society has
made substantial progress in its
service to policyholders and the
public in Australia and New
Zealand.
During the year Sir Douglas
Menzies, K.8.E., resigned from the
Board on his appointment to the
Bench of the High Court. We
shall miss his keen perception and
his friendly guidance in our
deliberations. Mr. A. R. Beggs,
C.8.E., whose high standing and
breadth of experience will be of
material help to the Board, was
appointed to fill the vacancy.
It is with very deep regret that
I record the death of Mr. F. H.
Hammond, the Society’s Manager
for Victoria, and Mr. E. F.
Hamley, who, at the time of his
retirement four years ago was the
Society’s Secretary and Investment
Manager. Both rendered devoted
and loyal service to the Society.
New
Business
The New Business completed in
the Life Departments, 93,836
policies assuring £58,561,071, was
a record for the Society and
exceeded last year’s total by over
£7,300.000. This demonstrates
again the public recognition of the
unexcelled service rendered by the
Society in the field of Superannua-
tion, Group and individual assur-
ance. In the Accident Department
15,384 policies were issued and
Accident Benefits totalling over 80
million pounds were added to
32,423 life policies. The whole
of the New Business was derived
from Australia and New Zealand.
Staff
Superannuation
Staff Superannuation and Group
Assurance business was again a
record, due to the splendid service
rendered by trained personnel and
to the very attractive schemes
made available by the Society. The
establishment and management of
these schemes is of such vital
concern to beneficiaries that it is
impossible to lay too much
emphasis on the need for com-
petent and continuous service.
Provision for dependants and for
retirement ' must be adequately
secured if they are to be of real
value. Temporary economic condi-
tions may make some arrangements
appear to have advantages over a
life assurance scheme but perman-
ent security and peace of mind for
employees and professional men
demand the long-term advantages
offered by a progressive Life Assur-
ance Society.
Investment of
Funds
The stability and security of the
assets from which benefits under
policies will be paid are demon-
strated by the range of invest-
ments comprising the Funds,
amounting to 131 million pounds
in the Life Departments, and
£425,000 in the Accident Depart-
ment. Investment of these Funds
is kept under continuous review
in the interests of the policy-
holders and the national welfare.
Although unable to satisfy all who
sought to borrow, we ' have paid
particular attention to the needs
of policyholders seeking home
finance, and to support for
Governments, Local Authorities,
commerce and industry. There has
been a further increase of 4/lld.
per cent, in the rate of interest
earned on the mean Assurance
Funds.
Income
Income from all sources in-
creased by £1,673,156 to
£23.581,477. Payments to policy-
holders and beneficiaries of
£8.274,2GG brings the total during
the last ten years to more than
£03,800,000. We have intensified
our close scrutiny of operating
expenses, and I am pleased to re-
port that our efforts have been
rewarded by further reductions in
the ratio of total expenses to total
income in all Departments. I
expect to see further improvements
during the current year.
Premium income in the Accident
Department rose from £554.187 to
£596,353. In association with Life
Assurance business, an attractive
range of Personal Accident and
Sickness benefits is enabling your
Society to secure the financial
future of an ever-growing number
of people.
The Actuary’s
Report
The Statements of Revenue and
of Assets and Liabilities, together
with the Actuary’s Report, help
to .demonstrate the unique nature
of Life Assurance business. We
are concerned not only with the
static position of tlie Society as
at 30th September last but also
with the dynamic future. The
Actuary takes into account future
payments and receipts in respect
of policy contracts. The technical
stocktaking of present and future,
known as the valuation, shows a
record amount of £3,506,877
available for distribution among
the holders of participating
policies. The Actuary’s recom-
mendations provide for increases
in bonuses in both Ordinary and
Industrial Departments.
Additional
Services
During the year further steps
extending the Society's service
were taken by the formation of
two wholly-owned subsidiary com-
panies, T. & G. Fire and General
Insurance Company Limited and
T. & G. Nominees Proprietary
Limited. Although the Fire and
General Company is not yet
ready to accept business, good pro-
gress is being made with the
necessary organisation. Long term
benefits to the Society’s policy-
holders wil certainly accrue from
the Companies.
Progress
Under Mutual
System
The Society has made outstand-
ing progress during the past ten
years. New Business figures were
very satisfactory: Income in-
creased from £10,700,000 to
£23.580.000: the Assets increased
from £61,700.000 to over 134
million pounds, and Assurances in
Force increased from 179 million
to 413 million pounds. I am con-
fident that even greater progress
will be made in the future. Your
Society is making an increasingly
important contribution to the
stability and economic welfare of
Australia and New Zealand. This
is largely due to the calibre of
the men and women of our staff.
They have a wide range of skills
and aptitudes, competent to keep
the Society in the forefront of Life
and Personal Accident Assurance
On behalf of the Board I thank all
members of the Staff and wish
them further success in the current
year.”
Retiring Directors, Messrs. J. R.
Burt. 11. D. Stewart and A. R.
Beggs, C.8.E., and retiring
Auditors, Messrs. J. M. F. Relph
and W. M. Scott, were re-elected.
depth, the problems that con-
cern them all are human
enough and are treated with
understanding and sympathy,
Jeffrey Hunter is the tough pro-
fessional marine non.-com.
with a fierce pride in his outfit
and contempt for those less
contemptuous than he is of
grenade and bullet ; Hope
Lange is the gentle girl he
bustles into marriage with
martial snappiness to give a
name to their imminent baby.
Robert Wagner is a carefree,
rather loutish private glad to
get into the Army to side-step
a feud with his even more
loutish stepfather. Bradford
Dillman is the scion of a
wealthy family determined to
buck the old man’s pleadings
for him to stay home, and
to find out for himself if the
pacifist tendencies he once
espoused were justified ; Dana
Wynter is the neurotic whisky-
swilling girl-friend he finally
dumps in favor of a Eurasian
beauty who can match his own
intellectual capacity.
The acting all round is on a
high level, and the battle-
scenes —shored-up with a deal
of assistance from the docu-
mentary library are vividly
realistic.
At Sydney Regent.
“Ride a Crooked Trail”
Audie Murphy, one of the
U.S.’s most decorated heroes
of World War 11, is far too
frank-faced and boyish-look-
ing to make any impact as the
rough-tough outlaw who, in
this Western, comes to a town
in the guise of a marshal
killed while hunting him, and,
accepted at his face-value, sees
the error of his ways and turns
dog on the fellow-outlaw who
expects help from him as
arranged in knocking-off the
bank.
The doings don’t generate
much excitement, and the
hero's romantic episodes with
Gia Scala are about as heady
as lolly-water.
At Sydney Lyceum.
♦♦♦
“Tarzan’s Fight for Life”
The chief wonders in this,
the latest of the seemingly end-
less series about the jungle-
taming he-man, are (1) how
the fake-men managed to make
mobile the rubber anaconda
which presents the most
dreaded challenge to the inde-
structible Tarzan’s well-being;
and (2), how Gordon Scott and
Eva Brent could possibly be
so dumb in the acting line.
M.-G.-M. Theatres.


Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771—8 W 8088
Telegraphic an<l Cable address: “Brownhills.”
Telephone: BW 1165 (3 lines).
A. H. BROWNHILL & CO.
(A. H. Brownhill, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
27 O’Connell Street - -- -- -- -- - Sydney
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
F. J. Walker, Ltd.
Tn one of the most difficult trading
•*- periods for many years, the F. J.
Walker group has again produced satis-
fying results for its shareholders.
Drought, and the slump in wool prices
(accentuated since the close of accounts),
both affected operations, and the chair-
man’s statement that “only the closest
attention to costs and production tech-
niques has enabled the company to trade
so successfully, and our long - range
policy of improved methods and better
equipment is beginning to justify the
capital-expenditure to which I have re-
ferred in previous annual reports”, may
be accepted without reserve. Credit,
too, would appear to be due to
the co.’s astute trading policy in a
period of falling prices. Turnover (mostly
on the Australian market) for the year
was £1,302,000 lower at £7,636,000 ; the
major reason for this was “our conserva-
tive reduction in the volume of our wool
trading, following the disastrous fall in
the market.”
Apart from the parent co., the sub-
sidiary members of the group are:
Australian Chilling and Freezing Co.,
Ltd.; Australian Natural Gut Manufactur-
ing Co. Pty.; Australian Wool and
Produce Co. Pty.; Commercial Freezing
Co. Pty.; Hunter River Meat Packing Co.
Pty.; Metropolitan Meat Co. Pty.;
Oldham Bros. Pty; R. N. McGavin and
Son Pty.; Sydney Meat Preserving Co.;
Walker Trading Co. Pty.; Waterside Cold
Stores Pty.
The nature of the activities of each
company in the group is not given in
the annual report, and there appear to
have been some changes since they were
described in the memorandum of place-
ment of shares at the conversion in 1951 ;
but, overall, livestock is slaughtered at
the Auburn and Aberdeen (N.S.W.) meat-
works for local and export markets,
country chilling-works are operated, and
the well-integrated organisation turns-out,
among other things, smallgoods and
casings, and conducts a number of re-
tail shops and provides freezing and
cold-storage facilities. All subsidiaries
contributed to last year’s profit. Fire
damage to the Waterside Cold Stores
in March, 1956, has been completely
restored and a record number of packages
has been handled.
The group’s sales of prepackaged meat
are increasing, and this form of selling
is expected to go on expanding. Out-
lets have been established in chain-stores,
among other retailers. Most of the
group’s meat is sold in N.S.W.
Under influence of conditions before-
mentioned, trading profit of the group,
alter allowing £55,314 for depreciation
(up £4035), was down £39,545 at
£379,864. But taxation. provision was
£52,458 lower at £llB,BOO (due partly to
overprovision in 1957 and increased
allowances for depreciation and long-
service leave in the past year); and the
net profit, after deducting the £423 in-
terest of minority shareholders, was
£12,793 higher at £260,641:
F. J. Walker/ Ltd., and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividend. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1954. . 321,464 15 p.c.= 165,000 156,464 789,616
Goodwill written-off, £2953 .. .. 786,663
Unexplained addition, £1560 .. 788,223
1955.. 275,906 15 p.c. = 165,000 110,906 899,129
Profit sale freehold, £100,484 .. .. 999,613
Revaluation fixed assets, £294,346 . . 1,293,959
Unexplained "addition, £2427 .. .. 1,296,386
Intangibles written-off. £155,798 . . 1,140,588
' 1956.. 238,548 15 p.c. = 166,200 72,348 1,212,936
Reserves capitalised, £332.400 . , 880,536
Goodwill vyritten-off, £9592 .. .. 870,944
Unexplained reduction, £1631 .. 869,313
1957.. 247,848 124p.c.- 180,050 67,798 937,111
Unexplained addition, £1779 .. 938,890
1958.. 260,641 12ip.e.= 180,050 80,591 1,019,481
* Subject to intangibles, written-off 30/6/’56.
This net result was equal to 18.1 p.c.
on average capital, compared with 17.2
p.c. in the preceding year. The 12 j p.c.
dividend was comfortably covered, and
£80,591 was carried to reserves, which
at £1,019,481 are equal to 7s. 2d. per
10s. stock-unit.
Balance-sheet figures show that a
strong liquid position has been main-
tained notwithstanding expenditure of
£113,557 “in.further improving buildings
or plant-technique during the year.” The
result of this expenditure, says chairman
D. G. Molesworth, should be clearly
shown in the accounts of the ensuing
year:—
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE-SHEET.
1956. 1957. 1958.
Paid capital . . £1.1(18,000 £1.440.400 £1,440,400
Reserves .. .. 1,212,936 937,111 1,019,481
Outside interest.. 6,987 6,916 7,042
Creditors . . . . ' 229,653 220,221 224,079
Long-service prov. 33,212 47,457 40,923
Tax provision .. 166,816 172,627 130,636
Final div. . . 96,950 90.025 90,025
£2,854,554 £2,914,757 £2,952,586
Freehold and lease-
holds .. .. 1,118,146 1,135,923 1,156,608
Plant, machinery,
etc. . . . . 540,914 559,889 609,075
Stock .. .. 291,983 312,507 301,161
Debtors . . ~ 365,754 498,328 330,429
Cash and invest-
ments ... 537,757 408,110 555.313
£2,854,554 £2,914,757 £2,952,586
Because of depreciation provision, the
net increase in the book-value of fixed
assets was kept down to £69,871.
Stocks, debtors and the outside debt
continue to retain a compact rela-
tionship to the large turnover. Stocks
were reduced £11,346 last term; debtors
by £167,899, chiefly because of the
receipt of insurance claims, and are now
around normal proportions. Trade
creditors and the like show little move-
ment at £224,079, and all liabilities,
including taxation and the final div.,
were more than covered by cash and
investments totalling £555,313 (up
£147,203). To a company which, among
other activities, trades in wool, the value
of such liquidity is obvious.
The sharemarket appreciates the com-
parative stability of the earnings of the
Walker group even in times of diffi-
culty in the market for primary products,
as well as the consolidation of the
financial position and the improvement
of production techniques, and accepts a
present 5.2 p.c. yield in buying the 10s.
stock-units at 245. The backing per
stock - unit is visibly 17s. 2d. in net
tangibles.
Bank of Adelaide
CJCrip in Australian trading-banks is
a far less rewarding investment than
might be imagined from the criticism
directed at publicly-owned banks by
certain political parties, and the now-
assured passage of the Federal Govern-
ment’s banking-bills (amended or other-
wise) is unlikely to alter this situation.
In the case of the Bank of Adelaide,
the smallest of the major trading-banks,
the div.-rate has averaged a modest
7.28 p.c. over the past 20 years, while
shareholders have been invited to put-up
fresh capital on only one occasion
during that period (in 1954), and then at
a 374 p.c. premium.
The Adelaide does the bulk of its
business in South Australia, where it
has strong rural ties, but branches in
all mainland capitals and London are
included in the bank’s string of approxi-
mately 170 branches and agencies.
With the extent of its lending activities
subject, largely, to the direction of the
central bank, the Adelaide, in common
with other banks, has sought investment
opportunities in finance-houses outside
the banking-system and a 40 p.c. share-
interest in Finance Corp. of Australia,
Ltd. (which has paid a steady 10 p.c. for
the last three years), is included in the
balance-sheet under “other assets.” Late
last term the bank added its name to
the impressive list of shareholders in
Development Finance Corp., Ltd., and
made arrangements to act as agent for
Australian Fixed Trusts, itself a member
of the D.F.C. group.
To lessen the financial strains arising
from last year’s drop in farm-earnings
and export-income, the central bank has
released £75 million from the trading-
bank's special accounts since February
of this year, the Adelaide’s share, up
to September 30 last, amounting to


G. H. PARTRIDGE & CO.
t. !>• PARTRIDGE, A. G. HANSON
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
113 Pilt Street, Sydney Telephone: BL 5031-3
£3,000,000, or £lOO,OOO less than the
sum siphoned-off in the 1957 term.
As intended, this release countered a
£1,370,819 contraction in deposits and,
with a £980,264 reduction in liquids,
enabled the bank to stretch advances by
£2,496,082:
1956. 1957. 1953.
Paid capital .. £1,750,000 £1,750.000 £1,750.000
Reserves . . 1,867,245 1,904,943 1.941,749
Deposits, etc.. . 34,479.941 37,806,430 30,435,611
Notes . . . . 6,489 6,489 6,489
Due other banks 1,064,357 928.015 1,164,342
Final div. .. 87.500 87,500 87,500
£39,255,532 £42,483,377 £41,385,691
Liquid assets.. 15.262,698 17,336,257 16,355,993
Special account 5,368,000 8,468,000 5,468,000
Advances .. 17,212.537 15,014,435 17.510,517
Premises .. 939,394 1,161,967 1,287,139
Other assets .. . 472,903 502,718 764.042
£39,255,532 £42,483,377 £41,385,691
The changed economic conditions led
to some adjustments in the liquidity and
advance-deposit ratios, but, as always,
the bank continued to operate within
rather conservative limits. At September
30, advances equalled 48 p.c. of deposits,
compared with 39.7 p.c. a year earlier,
while, at the same date, there was
Bs. lHd. in liquids (9s. 2d. in 1957) for
every £ of liabilities to the public and
another 3s. (4s. 6d.) in special account.
The lift in advances made no im-
pression on earnings, although the
interest-rate on special accounts was
iaised from \ p.c. to i p.c. and the
decline in liquids confined to bills
receivable and remittances in transit, the
board blaming higher operating expenses
for the slightly weaker showing:
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
From contingency reserve, £250,000 1,783,306
1955.. 219,044 10 p.c. =175,000 44,044 1,827,350
1956.. 214,895 10 ~ ~175,000 39,895 1,867,245
1957.. 212,698 10 ~ ~175,000 37,698 1,904,943
1958.. 211,806 10 „ ~175,000 36,806 1,941,749
The rise in expenses is behind recent
suggestions that bank - charges bearing
some relationship to the varying number
of transactions in individual current
accounts are likely to be introduced some
time next year. Alterations to trading-
hours are also probable in South Aus-
tralia, where recent amendments to State
legislation permit banks to remain closed
on Saturday morning.
Down £892 at £211,806, after provid’
itfig for taxation and “all foreseeable
contingencies,” net earnings equalled a
moderate 5.7 p.c. on average share-
holders' funds, or 12.1 p.c. on the
£1,750,000 paid-capital, compared with
an average of 11.7 p.c. in the five pre-
ceding years. Reintroduced in 1954. after
a lapse of 15 years, the 10 p.c. div.-rate
called for all but £36,806 of the published
profit.
The continued slump in wool prices
and the growing balance - of - payments
deficit indicate that, for the next few
months at least, central-bank policy will
probably favor a gradual increase in
advances and thus give the Adelaide a
chance to halt the slight drift in earnings
evident for the past three years.
Enjoying a visible net asset backing of
425. 2d., the f.-p. £1 ords. would return
£4 16s. sd. p.c. from a 10 p.c. distribu-
tion at last week’s price of 41s. 6d.
Whale Industries, Ltd.
Tn the seven years since its formation,
Whale Industries, Ltd., has paid-out
ss. 6d. in divs. on each of its 2,140,000
ss. ords. and built-up a net tangible
backing for the scrip of a fraction over
Bs. 2d. For the past four years the
div.-rate has been steady at 20 p.c., with
the earning-rate on share-capital averag-
ing 29.4 p.c.
On this record, one might expect the
shares to return less than £8 Is. Id. p.c.,
the yield from a 20 p.c. div. at last week’s
price of 12s. sd. The main drawbacks
are, of course, the instability of world
markets for whale-oil (which showed-up
in the co.’s first annual accounts, and
to a lesser extent, in the 20 p.c. drop in
pre-tax earnings last term), and the
limited opportunity for expansion, with
whale-catches restricted by a quota
system. The more cautious of investors
might also feel inclined to make some
allowance for the £106,250 yet to be
repaid by the beach-mining associate.
Whale Industries, fleet of three whale-
catchers is based on the Tangalooma
station, Moreton Island (Q.), where the
co. extracts the whale-oil from the catch
and converts the carcasses into whale-
meal, dried solubles (fertiliser), etc.
In spite of fierce weather conditions
during the opening weeks of the season,
last term’s unchanged quota of 600
whales was taken in 65 days, only three
days more than it took to do the same
job in the 1957 term. Taken in excellent
condition, the catch yielded record quan-
tities of both oil and whale-meal, but a
drop of around 15 p.c. in oil-prices, a
weaker local market for whale-meal and
“disproportionately high” shipping-
freights spoilt the picture, pre-tax earn-
ings (excluding provision for mainten-
ance in 1956-57) falling by £58,751 to
£230,364.
In the following table recent provi-
sions for deferred maintenance have been
regarded as a charge against earnings and,
on this basis, net profit for the year to
September 30 last rose by £3249 to
£150,364, and represented a return of 28.1
p.c. on share-capital:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
Oct. Profit. r Dividends serves, serves.*
31, £ £ £ £
1954 . . 152.8Q5 14 p.e. = 74,900 77,905 90,896
1955 ..188,434 20 „ ~107,000 81,434 172,330
Sept.,
1956 t. .143,266 20 „ ~107,000 36,266 208,596
1957 ..147,115 20 „ ~107,000 40,115 248,711
From prov. for deferred maintenance,
£50,000 298,711
1958 ..150.304 20 p.c. =107,000 43,364 342,075
* After deducting intangibles, £31,500 at 30/9/’5B.
f 11 months only.
Until last term the co. had, for some
years, been providing annually for
deferred-maintenance costs and, at the
same time, charging all maintenance
costs against current earnings. Acknow-
ledging this fact, the board, last term,
transferred to general reserve the £50,000
standing against provision for deferred
maintenance, etc., and omitted the usual
yearly provision. If the previous year’s
£25,000 provision is regarded in this light,
net earnings last term fell by £21,751, the
“rounded-off” tax-provisions (£117,000 in
1957 and £BO,OOO last year) suggesting
that the drop in taxable profit was well
over £90,000.
An accurate comparison of trading
results for the two years is, in
any case, difficult, as a book - loss on
the sale of a chaser and the cost of
bringing a larger replacement vessel from
Norway (amounts unstated in both cases)
were charged against earnings in 1957.
Owned jointly by Whale Industries and
the old-established beach-miner, Z.R.
Holdings, Ltd., the beach-mining off-
shoot, Tangalooma Minerals Pty., is
reported to have earned a net profit of
approximately £41,000 between forma-
tion, in June, ’56, and March 31 last,
after charging depreciation and writing-
off establishment expenses. The repay-
ment of large advances from the parent
cos. was begun last term, the indebted-
ness to Whale Industries being reduced
by £39,500 (to £106,250). Further repay-
ments are expected in the current year.
In view of the collapse of the rutile
market, mining-operations have now been
suspended and deliveries are being made
from stocks on hand.
The lower prices obtained for oil and
meal appear to have been largely
responsible for a £76,095 contraction in
book-debts last term, but at balance-date
the overall financial position was par-
ticularly comfortable, even allowing for
the seasonal nature of operations:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1956. 1957. 1958.
Paid capital .. £535,000 £535,000 £535,000
Reserves .. 240,096 280,211 373,575
Provision for de-
ferred mainten-
ance, etc. .. 25,000 50,000
Creditors .. 12.442 29,615 11,463
Tax provision .. 129,979 151,791 165.089
Dividends .. 107,000 107,000 107,000
£1,049,517 £1,153,617 £1,192,127
Plant, buildings,
ships, etc. . . 474,004 424,227 359,331
Shares, advances.
etc., subsidiary 8,500 146,750 122,250
Stock .. .. 22.068 198,923 200,436
Debtors .. .. 304,601 235,390 159,295
Cash .. .. 148,244 116,827 313,315
Intangibles .. 31,500 31,500 31,500
£1,049,517 £1,153,017 £1,192,127
At the end of the year shareholders
could see almost 3s. Byd. for each ss. share
in the surplus of current assets over
liabilities, 3s. 4d. in well written - down
fixed assets, and Is. 2d. in shares,
advances, etc.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE —MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. O. S. PETTERSEN, Manager.
Brandies in nil States Agencies in all Country Centres
A
i
Every professional
man owes it to him-
self and his family to
enquire about “Table
32.”
INCOME
PROTECTION
for
Professional
Men
PERSONAL
ACCIDENT
AND SICKNESS
INSURANCE
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD. (Inc. in Qld., 1895)
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS. SYDNEY
Ford Sherington Holdings
'T'his little-known stock looks
a healthy long-term pro-
position. Unfortunately for the
impatient, a death-adder seems
to have taken up residence in
the company till, for in spite
of a satisfactory disclosed earn-
ing rate and a much more
satisfactory indicated rate, an
unrelenting 10 p.c. dividend has
been the portion of ordinary
shareholders since 1950, when
133,328 ss. ords. were issued
to the public at 50 p.c.
premium. And there have been
no capital-issues since this long-
esitablished company donned
public garb. Furthermore, the
board hints strongly that
there’ll be nothing doing for
the near future, at least.
Here’s what Ford Shering-
ton has claimed as earnings over
the eight years:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
/— —Dividends ~ Re-
Jne., Profit. Pref. / Ord. serves.*
8 p.c.
£ £ £ £
Tax overprovided, £1146 .. 124,739
Prelim, exp. w/off, £985 .. 123,754
*51..32,886 3644 10p.e.=10,000 142,996
’5’2..20,842 3644 10 „ „ 10,000 150,194
Exchange premium, £491 .. 150,685
Tax overprovided, £B2 .. 150,767
’53..27,512 3644 10p.c.r=10,000 164,635
Exchange premium, £491 . . 165,126
Tax overprovided, £26 . . 165,152
’54..32,031 3644 10p.c.=10,000 183,539
Exchange premium, £613 . . 184,152
Tax overprovided, £l2B .. 184,280
’55..32,948 3644 10p.c.=10,000 203,584
Profit sale bonds, £79 .. 203,663
Exchange premium, £1962.. 205,625
’56..24,796 3644 10p.c.=10,000 216,777
Exchange premiums, £613.. 217,390
Tax overprovided, £5OOO . . 222,390
’57..24,490 3644 10p.c.=10,000 233,236
Exchange premiums, £1962 235,198
Revaluation assets, £104,420 339,618
’58..24,895 3644 10p.c.=10,000 350,868
* Subject to intangibles, £75,000 at
30/6/’5B, and including £15,000 plant
replacement provision.
The year’s consolidated net
trading profit of £24,895, as
claimed, remained after pro-
viding £23,150-for taxation, or
£3061 less than in 1956-57,
and for depreciation, £5583
(£3907).
As usual, no adjustment was
made in the balance-sheet
for the premium on exchange
between Australia and South
Africa, whose pound is at
parity with sterling. From
the size of the exchange-
premium on div. received,
shown in the above table,
£1962, which rightly could be
added to profit, it appears
that dividends received from
the South African subsidiary
alone would total nearly
£lO,OOO for the year.
TTiere is one factory in South
Africa, at Port Elizabeth, and
sales-agencies at other big
centres in the Union. Factories
and sales-offices in all Com-
monwealth State capitals
except Hobart are the main
source of revenue.
If the size of the tax-pro-
vision is any indication, Ford
Sherington’s true earning-rate
would approach 35 p.c on
ordinary capital, of which
there is £lOO,OOO in ss. shares,
supplemented by £45,550 in 8
p.c. cumulative preference
shares of 20s. each.
As an investment medium,
Ford Sherington is compara-
tively unknown, all the more
so because its scrip pays only
random visits to the Sydney
’Change. Its products are,
however, well known indeed —
travel - goods carrying the
Fordite and Regal label, and
including that old schooldays
friend, the Globite school-case.
Although decentralisation of
manufacture at first glance
appears extreme for such a
modestly capitalised organisa-
tion, transport is a major diffi-
culty where bulky goods of
this nature are concerned.
Two movements only of any
consequence are highlighted in
the 1958 balance-sheet; an
addition of £126,020 to the
book-value of freeholds, which
•had its part contra in £104,420-
added to reserves from a
revaluation of assets by' that
amount:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1956. 1957. 1958.
£ £ £
Pref. . . 45,550 45,550 45,550
Ord. .. 100.000 100,000 100,000
Reserves . . 216,776 223,235 335,868
Prov. for plant
replacement 10,000 15,000
Mortgage . . 15,967 15,979 . 14,602
Creditors .. 47.876 46,352 47,096
Tax provision 32,740 29,553 27,851
Final divs. .. 6,822 6,822 6,822
465,731 477,491 592,789
Land build-
ings .. 129,516 154,614 280,634
Plant, etc. . . 37,323 40,533 38,004
Stock .. 110,167 110,984 82,034
Debtors ... 44,672 34,274 38,356
Cash, bonds. . 69,053 62.086 78,761
Intangibles .. 75,000 75,000 75,000
465,731 477,491 592,789
The effect of this was to boost
the net tangible asset backing
of each ss. of share-capital to
18s. 10d., compared with
12s. sd. last year, if provision
for plant-replacement is in-
cluded. This cover is based
on book-values (less goodwill
on consolidation, £75,000),
which were still very conserva-
tive at June 30, the revaluation
notwithstanding.
“There is no intention to
issue bonus-shares,” states
chairman Raymont Moore.
The properties revalued are
those in Melbourne and Syd-
ney.
The ord. scrip last changed
hands at 9s. yielding what looks
to be an assured 5.5 p.c. p.a.,
with prospects and remarkably
interesting backing. The
prefs. are traded rarely.
Kelly and Lewis, Ltd.
'T'he directors’ report dated
November 18, 1957, had
this to say:
At the present time practically
all the manufacturing companies
have adequate work on hand, and
the orders taken recently by the
company show a heartening return
of demand which was so lacking
in the previous financial year.
The balancing-off of the
books of Kelly and Lewis and
its subsidiaries for the 1958
year brought to light a net
trading loss of £57,362 for the
term, after deduction of a
normal £42,237 for depreci-
ation and making no provision
for taxation in the consolidated
accounts, which indicated that
the travail was universal
throughout the group. This loss
was the third in succession and
nearly double that of the pre-
ceding term.
On this was superimposed
the effects of the recommenda-
tions of a firm of consultant
accountants, whereby plant
was written-down by £92,040,
stocks by £61,121, and £8470
was written-off as bad debts.
In what was virtually another
write-down, “plant and equip-
ment which was revalued in
1950, and was being amortised
against the revaluation reserve
over a period of 20 years, has
been entirely amortised this
year by writing-off £62,333
against the revaluation reserve.”
These, plus other charges
and credits shown below,
transformed reserves of
£265,629 into a net deficit of
£43,577:
Kelly and Lewis and Subsidiaries.
/ Dividends Re-
Jne., Profit. Prefs. Ords. Amt. serves.
£/ p q pc £ £/
’54..106,573 8& 5 10 59,580 332,770
To staff fund, £5OOO .. 327,770
Less res. adjustments, £8156 319,614
Share premiums, £lO.OOO .. 329,614
’55..117,643 8& 6 124 80,436 366,821
To staff fund, £5OOO .. 361,821
Plus res. adjustments, £1209 363,030
Reserve capitalised, £11,500 351,530
Chairman’s retiring allow-
ance, £6OOO .. .. 345,530
Loss.
’56.. 2,144 3*& 5 33,725 309,661
Profit sale assets, £B9O .. 310,551
Tax underprovided, £2Ol . . 310,350
To prov. long-service leave,
£16,000 294,350
Less res. adjustments, £4189 290,211
’57.. 24,582 265,629
Profit sale assets, £5227 270,856
Tax underprovided, £669 .. 270,187
To prov. long-service leave,
£24,686 245,501
Plant written-down, £92,040 153,461
Stock written-down, £61,121 92,340
Bad debts w/off, £8470 .. 83,870
Consultants’ fees, £8625 .. 75,245
Revaluation reserves written-
back, £62,333 .. .. 12,912
Net. addition contingency re-
serve, £873 . . . . 13,785
Deficit.
’58.. 57,362 43,577
*,Six months only.
And here is the consolidated
balance-sheet. The £126,716
fall in book-debts seems to


AN Z BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
A-N-Z
* -*■ *
COMBINED STATEMENT OF
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES AS AT
30th SEPTEMBER, 1958
(Excluding Inter-Bank Balances]
(Expressed in Australian Currency)
ASSETS £A
Cash in Hand and Balances with Bankers 43,007,069
Cheques of other Banks 6,162,819
Money at call „ ... ... 4,078,750
Treasury Bills 14,046,313
Special Account with Commonwealth
Bank of Australia 36,683,000
Investments 70,126,338
Bills Receivable and Remittances in
Transit 7 h, I 80,955
Loans and Advances to Customers and
other Accounts 196,366,122
Liabilities of Customers for Acceptances
and other Engagements 33,867,851
Bank Premises 9,345,954
Total £A484,865,171
LIABILITIES £A
Paid-up Capital of Australia and New
Zealand Bank Limited 12,801,000
Reserve Fund and Profit and Loss
Account Balance 10,859,447
Current, Deposit and other Accounts .. 427,336,873
Acceptances and other Engagements for
Customers .. .. .. 33,867,851
Total £A484,865,171
GENERAL MANAGER'S OFFICE FOR AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND, FIJI, PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA:
394-396 Collins Street, Melbourne
PRINCIPAL OFFICE IN NEW ZEALAND: 196 Featherston
Street, Wellington.
HEAD OFFICE: 71 Cornhill, London, E.C.3
Hugh D. T. Williamson, General Manager
bear out the chairman’s latest
and less encouraging observa-
tion that the problem of
operating economically “is a
difficult and complex task and
it must be appreciated that
some time will elapse before
showing results”:
CoNSOI, I UATEI) BA I.A XC E-SI I EET.
Paid capital— 1957. 1958.
Pref. .. .. £210,000 £210,000
Old 548,500 548,500
Reserves . . 265,629
Mortgage, etc.* 170.057 234,649
Overdrafts .. 260.477 184,142
Creditors . . 192,928 112,049
Prov. 1.-s. leave 16,000 30,000
Tax provision . . 811
£1,664,402 £1,319,340
Freeholds .. 323,604 320,951
Plant . . .. 535,709 350,863
Investments .. 3,000 3,000
Stocks, etc. .. 486,064 411,700
Debtors.. ~ 310.785 184,069
Cash, etc. .. 5.240 5,150
Deficit . . ~ 43,577
£1.664,402 £1.319,340
* Includes special deferrid account with
E., S. and A., £73,249 at 30/0/’5B.
The blow is softened somewhat
by a qualifying but none-too-
reassuring rider to the effect
that “at the present time the
volume of orders in hand
stands at a very high level,” and
that the business has worked-up
an increased Commonwealth
and world-wide representation,
whatever that means.
Kelly and Lewis is a
Melbourne - based manufac-
turer of pumping machinery
and other farming equipment,
and has over a half-century of
experience behind it. It acts
also as agent for certain well-
known overseas suppliers in
this particular field. It has a
special interest in the state of
the squattocracy’s Sank-state-
ment, and no further comment
is needed here on the present
aspect of that.
There have been whispers of
takeover bids, unpublicised, but
in the absence of something
really concrete, the 14s. a!
present offered by investors is
a speculative price. Net
tangible cover for each 20s.
of the £548,000 of ords. is
18s. lOd. The £210,000 of
6 p.c. prefs. aren’t at the
moment conspicuous on
’Change, possibly because
they’re waiting for £31,500 of
arrears owing them.
Hill 50 Gold Mine, N.L.
steady decline in ore-
grades and the intrpduc-
tion of fresh capital has rubbed
a lot of the glitter from Hill
50 scrip over the last couple of
years, but, even allowing for
the sharp fall in earnings last
term, the efficiently-worked
mine at Mt. Magnet (W.A.)
still manages to give-off a
pleasantly auriferous glow.
Despite the effects of an
expected drop in values, divi-
dends of Is. 4d, were paid out
of last year’s profit on each of
the 9,000,000 Is. stock-units,
leaving close to 4fd. a unit to
finance the necessary outlay on
plant and development. Bonus-
shares paid to 3d. were handed-
out in August, 1956 (two-for-
one), and subsequently paid-
up in cash, to take paid capital
to £450,000.
An extra 5463 short-tons of
ore (129,618 tons) was put
through the mill last term for
80,28 loz. fine gold (down
69230 z.), representing an
average yield of 12.39dwt. gold
per short-ton. Average mill-
head grades of 14.5dwt. and
15dwt. were reported in the
1957 and 1956 terms respect-
ively. Still lower values are
indicated at depth, and current
production-plans envisage a
mill-feed, taken partly from
stocks of broken ore, of
approximately lOdwt. gold,
with a higher throughput keep-
ing gold production at around
last term’s figure. A mill-head
grade of 12dwt. per ton “may
have been possible,” but this
term it would have involved a
“high degree" of selective
mining, which would depart
from good mining practice.
A higher throughput has
already brought some reduc-
tions in costs in the current
year, and if the grade of mill-
feed can be maintained at
lOdwt. the co. should have little
difficulty in holding the div. at
Is. 4d. a share.
Mining-receipts, excluding
£1507 (down £651) from
premium-gold sales, fell by
£108,184 to £1,254,972 last
term, treatment-costs rising by
Is. 6d., and development-
expenditure by 4s. per ton of
ore treated. Total operating
costs increased by a net ss. 2d.
to 665. 6d. per ton of ore
treated. As a result of the
heavier outlay on development,
stocks of broken ore were built-
up to around 170,000 tons,
providing a convenient “buffer”
between ore-breaking and ore-
treatment operations.
Net profit, £166,217 thinner
at £756,327, was calculated
after covering an additional
£24,903 (£82,476) of under-
ground-development costs and
allowing £48,816 (up £9432)
for depreciation:
Year
to Treated, Gold, Profit. Div.*
June, Tons. Pine Oz. £ £
(237.5%)
1954.. 92,245 56,763 607,399 356,250
(500%)
1955.. 111.544 78,582 881,778 750,000
(550%)
1956.. 118.622 83,295 903,436 825,000
„ (225%t)
1957.. 155 87,204 922,544 1,125.000
(166%)
1958.. 618 80,281 756,327 750,000
* Actual payment during year.
f On capital at end of term.
Development of the 1304 ft.
level was completed during the
term, and, at July 8 last, ore-
reserves (the overestimation of
which caused something of a
flurry last year) were estimated
at 852,000 short-tons, going
lO.ldwt. gold. About six years'
work for the mill at the present
rate of throughput, this is
94,000 tons higher than the
corrected figure at the end of
the previous term, but, as the
average grade at that time was
given as 12dwt., the gold-
content of reserves has actually
fallen.
Stores accounted for £113,393
of the £370,063 in - current
assets at June 30 last, cash,
bonds, debenture-stock, etc.,
making up most of the balance.
Current liabilities^were shown
at £36,680, mine property
(leasehold) and development at
£230,337 and fixed assets at
£338,070.
At last week's price of
9s. 3d., the current rate of
dividend would return the
buyers’ capital, tax-free, in
approximately seven years.


London airmail
From Herbert Holman
'T'he post-war financial revolu-
tion, with its pronounced
levelling-up of the incomes of
the masses, was quickly recog-
nised by retail traders, who
dressed their shop-windows and
changed their business methods
to attract the new type of
customer. Their former “good
customers,” moneyed people or
the well-paid middle-classes,
were no longer sufficient in
number to keep them in busi-
ness. So the cash transaction
gave place to hire-purchase,
and the artisan’s wife, entering
into successive agreements for
the latest in furniture and
gadgets, replaced the lady
from the Grange. (Recent
statistics prove, for example,
that the middle-class accounts
for less than one-fifth of
the sales of kitchen furniture,
washing-machines and the like.)
If most people want to spend,
then surely there are many who
want to invest? The City,
though preoccupied with this
possibility, has not shown the
adaptability of the salesmen.
It has done little or nothing
to attract this great, if diver-
sified, source of wealth.
Stockbrokers, understand-
ably, don’t encourage small
dealings because they are un-
remunerative and costly to the
purchaser. Although the unit-
trusts have been active and
progressive, notice of their
innovations and new issues has
not reached a wide public for
the very simple reason that
their advertising must of neces-
sity be selective; moreover,
only one of the dozen or so
trusts employs salesmen.
Big Guns
This quiet pattern has
changed. Just as, a few months
ago, the joint-stock banks took
substantial, if indirect, interest
in hire-purchase finance, so the
merchant-bankers are now
concerning themselves with
unit-trusts.
The firm of Philip Hill, Hig-
ginson and Co., Ltd., made a
sensational entry into this
field by launching the British
Shareholders Trust. Ottering
five-million units at 10s., they
received upwards of eight-
million applications in less than
a week. The venture is an
interesting one not only because
of its expertise but also because
of its long-term potential.
Briefly, the trust is open-end
and flexible. The managers
recite a list of blue-chips in
Which they propose to invest,
but have power, which they
will undoubtedly exercise,
initially to buy British Govern-
ment securities. An investment-
council of four will advise the
managers. The dealing prices
will include a 2 per cent,
initial charge for management
expenses and If per cent, for
commission (from which, in-
cidentally, the trust will benefit
on direct applications). Every
half-year the managers will
deduct f per cent, of the value
of the investments. The antici-
pated yield at the first distribu-
tion is 4f per cent, gross.
Two aspects are notable.
“At that price it's a give-away — it's only done six miles."
First, the advertising was on a
nation-wide scale, even to
whole pages in the popular
dailies. Second, the managers
have made arrangements with
United Dominions Trust for
units to be bought by instal-
ments at effective rates of
interest ranging from 9 per
cent, over one year to 18 per
cent, over two years. Invest-
ment by hire-purchase!
This seemingly crazy innova-
tion has been much criticised.
In reply, one' of the managers
has made the points that
“whereas hire-purchase of
goods is a stimulant to spend-
ing, the purchase of shares in
this way is a stimulant to saving
and investment,” and that, as
with motor-cars and TV-sets,
human nature is such that many
people would never enjoy their
possessions if they had to wait
until they had saved enough to
pay for them.
It is fair to say that the
number of units acquired by
hire-purchase is expected to be
small (8 per cent, or less), but
this aspect evidences the
imagination behind the project.
And since the high expense-
ratio will gainsay profit in the
early years it is reasonable to
assume that these bankers are
looking far ahead.
A further development on a
smaller scale is the Crosby
Unit Trust, which has been
sponsored by the Merchant
bankers Robert Fleming and
Co., Ltd. This is directed at a
more selective public and
promises a commencing gross
yield of 4 per cent. The
emphasis is on growth stocks,
and nearly a quarter of the
portfolio is in North American
common stocks.
The pioneer of unit-trusts in
Great Britain, Municipal and
General Securities, have
announced, though most dis-
creetly, a “working arrange-
ment” with Robert Benson,
Lonsdale and Co., Ltd. Exactly
what this means is not known,
but it suggests a further block-
issue at a suitable time.
Bar-crossed Lovers
“Hot Summer Night” (New
Theatre) is a play about the
color-bar. Its central issue
is that inevitable poser : “How
would you like your daughter
to marry a black man?” But
the question is not a hypo-
thetical one to “Jacko” Palmer,
an area official blindly devoted
to trade-union principles, and
to Nell, his wife. Their only
child, Kathie, goes swimming
with a Jamaican immigrant
whom she has taught at even-
ing classes and takes the
initiative in quickening a love
that is spontaneous, mutual,
innocent and beautiful.
To complicate the issue,
Jacko has just given his official
backing to the promotion, on
grounds of merit, of a Jamaican
in a nearby factory. It must
go through, he emphasises, as
a matter of principle, for there
is no color-bar in onion
membership. But this prob-
lem is on his own doorstep,
and Nell, after crumbling
from the shock, becomes
hysterical, abusive and out of
control —so demented, in fact,
that Kathie has to go back on
her decision about leaving
home. The outcome is left
unresolved, but a symbolic
curtain-line hints at a victory
for prejudice.
This is a remarkable play
by an author, Ted Willis, who
shows not only a mastery of
stagecraft but a deep and
objective understanding of life
as experienced by human-
beings. The skill with which,
in a few seconds, he promotes
the casual friendship into de-
clared betrothal is consum-
mate ; so, too, is the way the
gamut of emotion and conflict
and past history is woven into
a continuous action. As with
most “well-made” plays, the
dramaturgy may be a little
too facile, but it is grand
“theatre” and amazingly close
to life. The lovers, for
example, are so radiant with
purity of character as to be
slightly unreal, but they are
dramatically apt, and the
author very shrewdly switches
the essential conflict from
their Romeo-and-Juliet rela-
tionship to the post-marriage
social problem with its white
—and black—prejudices.
He disturbs the balance of
the play with a husband-and-
wife showdown over the hus-
band’s neglect of her for his
trade-union (and for his not
inconsiderable ego), but the
working - class background
rings true —a rare event for
the London stage and equalled
only by “The Summer of the
Seventeenth Doll.” Peter
Cotes’s production and
Hutchinson Scott's setting are
appropriately realistic. The
acting is virile and sensitive,
the men being more readily
identifiable with Wapping and
trade - unionism than the
women. Especially noteworthy
is John Slater’s blusteringly
pompous and self-opinionative
Jacko.


Burns-Johnson Jubilee
Since a few afternoons
back they now have an
engraved tablet fixed on
the right-hand wall about
halfway down the main
entrance-hall at the old Rush-
cutter Bay address in honor of
the Burns-Johnson jubilee,
which falls on Friday this week,
Boxing Day.
Australians all round aren't
Characteristic attitudes.
world-beaters in the com-
memorating line, in any field:
maybe they’re too interested in
today and tomorrow —which
could have its points, too.
Anyway, this plaque idea for
the Big Fight had to be
thought-up elsewhere —by
John Lardner, of the U.S.A.
(Ring Lardner’s son), with a
visiting American there the
other day to hand it over in
the second-shortest speech on
record (Jimmy Carruthers, who
did the unveiling, won the
Brevity Stakes by four words).
But—here, let the plaque speak
for itself:
In an outdoor ring: on this site,
on 2(ith December, 1008, Sydney
made sporting: history and gave
the world a new heavyweight
champion when Jack Johnson
knocked out Tommy Burns in the
fourteenth round of their match
for the title. Keferee, Hugh D.
Mclntosh. The International
magazine, Newsweek, in co-opera-
tion with Stadiums Ltd., presents
this commemorative tablet to
honour, in the jubilee year of the
contest, a famous champion, a
game loser and a great boxing
community. Unveiled by Jimmy
Carruthers, 11th December, 1958, at
this date, Australia’s only world
champion.
HThe unveiling by Jimmy duly
A happened in the afternoon
of the date specified, before
a large and representative
assemblage, consisting mainly
of ghosts. Somewhere about
a dozen liveghosts (or persons)
were also present.
It was mighty hot there in
that low-ceilinged hall leading
down to the ringside and the
ring, and there were a lot of
flashes of light and a smell as
of singeing or brimstone, but
perhaps that was only the press
photographers, and not the
ghosts. Still, one of the leading
.ghosts in the assemblage,
Tahmmy himself, did live on
to become a preacher in his
native Canada, so maybe the
pervading sulphurous whiffs,
scented with sal volatile and
embrocation, were as much
flash-backs as flash-bulbs.
Of the dozen or so Sub-
stantial present, one had
actually interviewed Tahmmy
and Jack when they came here,
and there was another who
had actually reported the fight
itself. They both must have
been very young and perhaps
innocent at the time.
The one who interviewed
Tahmmy and Jack gave the
present writer an account of
another interview, hitherto un-
published, between Jack and
the Mclntosh the incom-
parable Hugh D., most spec-
tacular of all entrepreneurs in
the boxing or afiy other line
in these parts, who had been
to great trouble and worry and
expense to bring the pair of
them together here, and now
wanted no last-minute non-
sense or . misbehavior from
either of them, and especially
from Jack.
So Hugh D. faced Jack
across a table and proceeded to
lay down the law. Johnson, he
said (or words to this effect),
until the fight you’ll do so
Johnson stood like a tower.
and so, and you won’t do such
and such. You’ll do this, and
you won’t do that . ... Thump-
ing the table. Shaking a
stubby finger at the shaved
black head . . . The huge black
hands getting a grip on the
table-edge ... A terrific ear-
bash . . . Johnson apparently
deeply impressed.
Hugh D. perorated with a
heavy thump.
“Mistah Mclntosh,” said
Jack, earnestly, “can I say
somethin’?”
“You can say what you like,
it’ll make no difference.
You’ll do as I say!”
“Yaas, Mistah Mclntosh . . .
Mistah Mclntosh, can X ask
you a question?”
“You can ask as many
questions as you like . . . it’ll
make no difference.
You’ll do . . . Well, what is it?”
“Mistah . . . Mclntosh . .
Jack leaning solemnly over the
table. “Mistah .. . Mclntosh
. . . can I . . . fight you . . s
instead ... of Tahmmy?”
A/Taybe one of the less-
insubstantial ghosts
present at the Stadium cere-
mony the other day had also
been present at that little inter-
view, and had had his judg-
ment shaped by Johnson’s
cool confidence to win the
vast fortune of two-quid which
he collected on the fight.
One of the Insubstantial
present —one who used to write
in these pages under the nom
de guerre of “0.K.,” and who
is now an authentic ghost —
told me that he won ten-bob
on the fight, acting on a more
direct sort of tip.
“One of the rubbers at the
Turkish-bath,” said “0.K.” (or
the ghost of “0.K.”), elbow-
ing me and showing me the
pictures reproduced on these
pages; “one of the rubbers
told me about the physical
points of the two men, both
of whom had been through his
hands on the marble slab.
‘lf it’s a square fight,
Johnson will knock out the
white man,’ said the
rubber. ‘That’s our idea,
and we ought to be better
judges than most people.’ ”
The ghost of “0.K.” (he
was a forerunner of my-
self in these Bulletin
pages) then went on to tell
me something else, which
you don’t notice much in
the records or in the
general popular idea of the
two men engaged, and
which may account to some
extent for what went on in
the ring while they were
fighting.
It could be that one of the
pair was black, and that this
has rather colored the legends
. . . anyway, the accepted idea
is that Johnson despicably and
coarsely taunted lilywhite
Burns in as nasty an exhibition
of unsportsmanship as ever
disgraced the Noble Art.
Well (the ghost of “0.K.”
admitted), the taunting was
true enough. “But,” he added,
“I refer you to what I had to
say about the same Mr. Burns
in our Bulletin four months
before the fight—the issue of
tenth of September: ‘lf he
were the Real Thing in daunt-
less pugs he wouldn’t work the
points against his opponents
which only his “star” position
“I thought Tahnuny was an
infighter !”
allows him to work. A bit of
a “bounder” is Burns without
a doubt. He’ll shrink a lot
when he meets his Waterloo,
will T. Burns, Esq., of the
arm-band and the suitcase.’ ”
"MD, that contemporary
account of things —and
of Tahmmy in particular —
certainly doesn’t figure very
prominently in the records.
It had a certain measure of
confirmation, down there at
this unveiling ceremony, in a
conversation with the thor-
oughly Substantial ghost (or
scribe) who had actually
reported the fight at the time,
though he didn’t look or seem
all that old, talking to him.
He said that they jibed at
each other, only you had to
be very close to hear Burns,
whereas plenty could hear
Johnson. And what Burns
kept on gritting out of the
corner of his mouth was,
“You’re black, and you’ve got
a yellow streak . . . I’ll find
your yellow streak,” and
sundry other variations on that
gentlemanly theme.
/''Vur Substantial ghost friend
(we missed his name,
unfortunately) here sighted,


and stepped across to, and
shook hands with another of
the dozen or so Substantial
ones present —a definitely live
Substantial, this one, whose
face was instantly familiar,
though hitherto never seen at
such close range.
“Hullo, Bill,” our friend
greeted him ; “how are you?”
“And how are you your-
self?” said “Bill.” “This" —the
plaque— “was a fine idea . .
You reported the Fight, didn't
you? . . .”
“Yes, Bill ... I was just
saying”
“Well,” said “Bill,” “I can
tell you the worst description
of it the worst account
of a fight ever written. It
was”
“Bill” went on to say where
the report appeared and named
its author (we refrain from
repeating the name and paper
out of respect for the new
N.S.W. Defamation Act,
though he’s dead and a ghost
long since, and the paper like-
wise). It was further stated
that the writer of “the worst
account of a fight ever written”
was a friend of Tahmmy’s, and
in fact, had a large diamond-
ring which Tahmmy gave him.
Be all that as it may, we
subsequently looked-up “the
worst account,” etc., at the
Public Library, and true
enough, as “Bill” had further
stated, it declared that the
police should never have
stopped the fight, and that, if
they hadn’t, Burns would have
beaten Johnson! Ah, well . . .
“Greater love hath no man
than this,” etc. . . .
TDut it’s time now for the un-
veiling, which, as already
stated, is expeditiously done—
Thorleif S. Johnsen, on behalf
of “Newsweek,” “handing
over” the memorial tablet, and
Jimmy Carruthers tugging the
colored tassel.
Then Thorleif and Jimmy
and “Bill” (otherwise former
Governor-General Sir William
McKell, looking in fine fettle)
are bulldozed into a group,
with Stadium manager Harry
Miller and one or two others
of the Substantials; and the
flash-bulbs flash . . .
A fterwards, as well as “the
worst account,” etc., we
looked-up an account of the
fight which no sort of “Bill”
whatever would be likely to
rate as anything but one of
the very best.
It appeared in these Bulle-
tin pages in the next issue
after the fight. It was a great
occasion—in the widespread
interest it aroused throughout
the country, probably the
greatest in the history of the
Ring in Australia, if not of
all sport here —-and The
Bulletin man did it justice.
The plaque they now have
down there in the entrance-
hall hangs on the wall be-
tween two large photos of
that extraordinary morning of
Boxing Day, 1908. The photo
Burns makes a game rally.
on the left is of the pair of
them in the ring ; Burns, on
the attack, back-on, in his
customary crouch; Johnson,
towering, wary, hands remark-
ably low—a good deal lower,
in fact, than in the drawing
of the pair done by Norman
Lindsay at the time.
The photo on the right is
of some of the crowd, male,
outside beforehand. There is
one notable difference be-
tween them and any compar-
able crowd that could be got
together today. In panamas,
boaters and hard-hitters, the
whole of the crowd on that
morning in 1908 are hatted.
In the dozen or so down there
the other day for the unveiling
His spar-like left.
there were only two or three
with hats, and those two or
three were such old-timers
that Gabriel himself might
have taken them for ghosts.
There was a small point of
difference, too, between the
inscription on that photo and
The Bulletin man's account.
The Bulletin said that
20,000 saw the fight ; the
photo goes 6000 better —either
entrepreneur’s licence, or The
Bulletin man guessing a bit
short.
nPHEY started to let them in
at 7 a.m., and from all
parts men kept pouring in till
the vast roofless arena was
packed. “Looking round from
the ringside over the waves of
faces that weltered away to
the iron walls of the enclo-
sure, the writer suddenly
realised what an awful lot of
meat it takes to make up
20,000 people.”
Johnson was the first to
appear and climb into the ring.
“There was a faint cheer, and
the colored giant bowed again
and again. He didn’t get
much homage, but made a lot
of what he did get.”
“Then,” wrote The Bulle-
tin scribe, “Burns appeared,
and was nearly blown out of
the Stadium by the crash of
applause that thundered from
20,000 throats, for by this
time there was not a vacant
seat in the great enclosure.”
This did not perturb John-
son. “Expectorating with
unerring accuracy between the
heads of one of his seconds
and a pressman on to a vacant
space about the size of a
handkerchief, he leaned over
the ropes and inquired of a
menial had he got ‘that bet
on.’ The varlet had, and
Johnson seemed relieved.”
T ooking then across the ring
noticed that
Burns, who “was giving him
the chance of his life and over
two stone in weight,” was
wearing elastic bands on his
elbows. Jack objected: Mc-
Intosh inspected them.
“They’re all right,” said
Hugh D.
“Aall right,” said Johnson,
“Elf sit here till he takes ’em
off. They must be there to do
him some good, and if he
don’t take ’em off there'll be
no fight.”
Hoots for Johnson from
the mob when this was passed
on to them, and advice to
Tahmmy not to give way to
the “black cow.”
Eventually, after varied
remonstrance had failed to
impress Johnson, Burns ended
what could have been a nasty
business by stripping off the
thin elastic bands and throw-
ing them away. Vociferous
plaudits for Burns; but you
wouldn’t have to be much of
a fighting man to know that
Johnson had as good as won
a round before the fight
started.
A nd when now they did get
going after Hugh D.
had dragged their hands to-
gether and posed them for a
picture Johnson very
promptly did win a round, the
opening one, and pretty con-
vincingly, too.
Johnson, as they came to-
gether, fairly towered over
Burns, who “looked like a
mere boy in his teens beside
him.”
An impression lingers of
another pair, a white pair,
many years later, who could
be thought comparable
bulky, crouching Ambrose
Palmer and that unforgettably
superb bronze pillar of man-
hood Young Stribling. But
this later scrap, if equally one-
sided (the Stribling’s way),
Thought it was
a knock - out.
was a gentlemanly affair,
polite to the point of nice-
ness. You couldn't say that
about the Burns - Johnson
affair.
No. “As Johnson went in
he smiled and paused. ‘Aal
right, Tahmmy!’ he laughed,
shooting out his spar-like left
for Burns’s ribs. Quick as
lightning Burns’s right fell on
his biceps and took the weight
out of the blow, while his left
landed in the black man’s
bingey. As he swung round
to draw out they clinched,
broke loose, and, like a flash,
Johnson, with a tremendous
right upward swing, caught
Burns fair under the chin,
lifted him off his feet and
sent him to the floor in a
sitting posture.”
A nd that, said The Bulletin
onlooker, was the really
decisive blow of the fight, for,
“although Burns was not
knocked out, he was obviously
o Continued on page 39)


Mirbani
By
MENA ABDULLAH
and RAY MATHEW
When I was six we had
a picnic.
Often we had pic-
nics tea from a
billy, chupatties from the
house, games and laughing on
the banks of the Gwydir—but
1 remember this one picnic be-
cause it was mine, not mother’s
or father’s or uncle’s or
brother’s or sister’s, but mine
for my birthday. 1 remember
it also because of two presents
that were wonderful then, and
because the memory of one oj£
them is wonderful even now.
There were birthday-things
to play with, especially for me,
and birthday-things to eat.
But toys and food, these were
real things to share and not
the two things that were some-
how mine.
It had been a dry time.
Father and Uncle Seyed had
fed the sheep by hand and
carted water to the house, be-
fore the picnic. Now father
took me to walk with him by
the river while the others pre-
pared the birthday lunch. They
all had jobs—Uncle Seyed, and
Lai to help him, gathered wood
to boil the billy ; Ama our
mother, and Rashida to help
her, set out the meal. I had
no job. It was my birthday.
Father took my hand and we
walked by the river.
I showed him all the things
I knew, the secret things I
never told Rashida who was
older than I was and told me
1 was little the gum-tree
where the wild bees made
brown honey, the way you
touched a trigger-plant and
made it jump. And father
showed me things I should
have seen but, somehow, never
had —the way the river was
deep holes held together by
shallow water, the way to stand
still like a tree and see the fish
move across the shallows.
We looked over to the hills
where the river was born and
suddenly father laughed, his
teeth shining through his
beard.
“I will give you a present,”
he said. “Not like Ama’s
present, but still a present. You
see that cloud, the heavy one
that’s crawling over the hill.
It will bring you rain for your
birthday.”
I knew that rain was wonder-
ful, but I was greedy and
wanted the other things.
“What’s Ama’s present?”
“Ama’s present is not now,
not for now.”
T>ut later when we all sat
eating, when Uncle Seyed
was in the middle of food and
a long story about the old
days and the old ways and the
birthdays in the Punjab, Ama
said —crossly for her, “Old
days, old ways!”
Uncle Seyed stopped talking,
even stopped eating for a
moment. Then he went on,
chewing thoughtfully, and
looking sideways at Ama and
wondering what was wrong.
“Nimmi,” said Ama to me,
“there is another present for
you. Your grandmother is
coming —my mother. All the
way from India, a long way.”
“She is a Brahmin,” said
Uncle Seyed. Then he bit at
his chupatty like a fierce Mos-
lem, as though he could eat all
the Hindus in one bite.
“I was a Brahmin,” said
Ama.
“They don’t eat meat,” said
little Lai. “I don’t want a
grandmother.”
“She’s my grandmother,” T
said. “Mine for my birthday.”
“How will she find us?”
asked Rashida. “How will she
know us when she sees us?”
“She is coming on a ship,”
said father.
“I want to go on a ship,” I
said. “For my next birthday.”
“Greed!” said father. “This
birthday here and the next one
wanted.”
“Is India over the hills?”
Lai pointed to them.
“Yes,” said Ama, “a long
way and across the water. Old
days, and oLd ways. What will
my mother think of us?”
“We can show her your
garden,” I said. “And the
jasmin and the tamarisk will
make her think that it’s India.”
“It is not India,” said father.
“And it is not the Punjab,”
said Uncle Seyed.
“It is just us,” said Ama.
“Grandmother will like us.”
Lai sounded confident, but he
ran to Ama and flung his arms


around her. “Won’t she?” he
said. “Won’t she?”
“Yes, yes,” said Ama. “But
now we must go home. Lai
must be home and warm be-
fore the rain comes.”
We hurried to pack every- .
thing into the wagon, every-
one hurried. Lai had only to
be tired and we were
frightened. He was the only
boy we had. The other one
had died before he could see,
and now we were frightened
because Lai was also a boy
and was sickly and was some-
times pale. On the way home
Rashida and I took turns at
nursing the baby, but Ama held
Lai all the way home because
he was shivering.
That night it rained. The
rain fell on the roof with
great noise that frightened me,
and I woke Rashida. She.
laughed at me and then talked
until the rain was falling soft
and always like a quali song
and we fell asleep again.
In the morning Ama told
us that Lai was sick, that he
had to stay in bed, that if we
talked to him we must be quiet,
that we were not to make him
quick and impatient. But we
could not have- done that.
Even when we made jokes for
him he hardly smiled. When
I brought Sulieman the rooster
in to see him he only stretched
his hand out to him ; so slowly
and so tired, as if the bird
was a long way away. He
didn’t even try to pull its tail,
and Rashida and I knew that
he was sick, and though we
smiled we were frightened. In
a few days he was more sick
than we could remember.
The doctor came from town,
in his car, and Rashida and
I waved to him because we
knew him. When he was going
he drove us to the gate with
him so that we could open it
and swing on it, and when he
had gone through we could
wave to him again.
• “You must be very kind to
Lai,” he said, “and quiet. It
is not a cold. It is not his
asthma. It is not anything I
know yet. We have to wait
and see. This is your secret,
you two. You must not tell
the others that we don’t know.
We will wait and see and be
kind to him, and when we
know what is wrong with him
we will make him well.”
Grandmother came—she also
in a car. If Lai had been well
he would have said that was
wrong, she should have come
in a ship. But not even grand-
mother could bring a ship
along a road.
She came in the night when
we were sleeping, and in the
morning, when we knew that
she had come, we were afraid,
Rashida and I, and felt very
small. Ama had told us things
about her that had made her
seem very clever and certain,
very grown-up. Ama, as she
told us, seemed a little bit
frightened and not at all
grown-up and sure the way
we had always thought of her;
Ama seemed like us.
“What will she think of us?”
she said. “What will she think
of me?”
She told us how grand-
mother was Hindu and not
Moslem, had never known
Allah ; how she was Brahmin
and her family was Brahmin
and did not eat the food we
ate, did not talk to the people
we talked to. She told us how
strong grandmother was, so
strong and sure that she had
not done what her parents said
was right but had left them and
had married a bad Brahmin
who talked to everyone and
did work that he should not
have done ; so clever that after
she was married she had gone
to school and had learnt
English and Hindi and Tamil
and other languages and she
could read them now, even the
most ancient Hindu writings.
She had had a newspaper of
her own and had been in
prison. She had worked hard,
and now that she was old her
children did the work that she
had done. They taught, and
wrote, and made speeches.
They worked for the Govern-
ment and were very clever and
very good. All of them were
clever, all except Ama, our
mother.
Ama was not clever. She
had listened while the others
lead. She was the eldest and
she minded the young ones.
She was shy and she would
not go out, not even to school.
Grandmother told her she was
a child, the eldest and a child ;
a girl who would never be a
woman. Sometimes Ama used
to cry and want to be like the
others in her family.
One day grandfather brought
a Moslem to the house. He
spoke no Hindi. The talk was
in English, which Ama knew,
and she listened to him. He
talked of his farm in New
England, in Australia. He
told how the paddocks were
big as villages and the hills
were not high enough for snow.
He described strange animals
and he helped his funny Eng-
lish with his hands. He showed
how kangaroos moved, and
possums. He tried to sing like
a strange bird, a blackbird,
which he said was “best than
flutes in India.” He said there
were birds that laughed, and
he smiled with white teeth at
Ama’s listening.
Often he came when there
was no one in the house to
listen, only Ama. Grandfather
and grandmother were busy.
The children were busy. There
were things to be done. But
always Ama was there to listen,
and one day, when he said
that it was the last time he
would come, he asked Ama
to marry him.
“Oh, how grandmother
shouted!” said Ama. “How
she cried out! She said he was
a Moslem and black. He could
not read or write. He had left
his country and run away. He
had done nothing for his
people and everything for him-
self. He wanted to take me
where there was no one to be
friends. I would be lonely.
Oh, how she argued! Then,
I became a Moslem.”
This was terrible. Even
grandfather, who was a bad
Brahmin, was upset. “The
Gods will punish,” he said.
“The Gods will punish.”
And they did, as they always
do.
Grandmother wrote to Ama
and told her grandfather
was dead. Ama’s baby, her
first-born, her boy, opened his
eyes to die- and the farm and
the hills and the birds and
the animals were all strange
and not hers. And she was as
lonely as if the whole world
was not hers.
“Once,” she told us, “your
father brought me a rabbit to
cook and then went out to
work on the farm. And I sat
there alone, near the window
with all the strange world
watching me. I cried and cried
and plucked the rabbit, every
bit of fur. I had never seen
a rabbit before.
“And then you came,
Rashida. And then you,
Nimmi. And then Lai, our
boy. And then lamila, the
baby. I have been very happy,
but mother grandmother
this has been a lonely time for
her. She has made her house
like a hospital, full of people
but not one of her own. Her
children are all of them away,
working, being clever and good
and not with her. And what
will she think of me? She will
think I am nothing, eh?” Ama
laughed then as though she
were joking, but she was not.
“I don’t want to see any old
grandmother,” I told Rashida.
But in the kitchen, in the
morning, when we knew that
she had come, we called out
and questioned and wanted to
see her.
Uncle Seyed laughed at us.
“You will not be so happy
when we sit down to dinner
with her. There will be no
meat in the house.”
“But we have meat every
day! ”
“It would not be polite,”
said Uncle Seyed, shocked at
our manners. “Your grand-
mother is a wretch of a
Brahmin. It would not be right
to have meat in the house.
“What else is there to eat?”
“Dal,” said Uncle Seyed.
We thought about dal, curry
made from peas and lentils,
and we looked miserable
enough to please even Uncle
Seyed.
He smiled at us. “I am
lucky,” he said. “I can cook
for myself down in my own
house, but your poor father . . .
your poor father! I suppose
I could give you some meat
if you were good.”
“I don’t mind eating dal,”
said Rashida. She was always
telling lies and trying to be
grown-up.
“I hate dal,” I said. “And
so does Rashida.”
When Ama came into the
kitchen she made us all go
away.
“You must be quiet,” she
said. “Grandmother has come
a long way. She is tired.”
In the garden, Rashida and
I talked about her and won-
dered if she was very old.
“She is over sixty,” said
Rashida. “She is terribly,
terribly old,”
We thought about terribly
old people for a little while,
but, by the time Ama called
us to the house, we had for-
gotten about the old people
of the world and were playing
and fighting the way that we
always did.
We ran to the house and
then, shy, we followed Ama
inside. Suddenly, from sur-
prise or from shyness, we stood
still and heard a voice saying
in Hindi, Ama’s language, “My
granddaughters. My Austra-
lian granddaughters.”
Tt was not only the voice that
was beautiful. The gold
threads of her sari glittered in
the sunlight that shone through
the window, and her face was
not old the way we meant old.
although her hair was grey at
the sides —like white wings. On
her forehead was the round
blue mark of the Brahmins,
and her eyes, big and kind and
dark like Ama’s, looked at us.
She was very small. Her
{Continued on page 43)


Should They Be Abolished?
THOSE UPPER HOUSES
Victorian Premier Bolte has been
having trouble w'ith his Legisla-
tive Council, so much so that he
has been threatening to do some-
thing about it. Threats to do something
about the Upper House are more-or-less
normal routine for Premiers whose
. cherished bills have been rejected by
that Chamber, though if any State has
taught its Premiers to be philosophical
about this sort of treatment it should be
Victoria ; it is more than 40 years since
a Victorian Government has had a
majority in both Houses —many of them
haven’t even had a majority in either
House.
Bolte’s threat was a sequel to the defeat
in the Legislative Council of two im-
portant bills—the Hire-purchase Bill and
the Bread Industry Bill—to reject which
the Country party joined forces with the
Labor party. His proposal, about which
he seems already to be having second
thoughts, is that the Council should be
forced to face a dissolution if it rejects
a bill the Government considers vital.
Upper Houses are constantly under
lire from critics. Some of these think
the bicameral system outmoded and the
Upper House a relic of the past; others
have nothing against the system in prin-
ciple, but find its current working frus-
trating some project dear to their hearts.
House of Privilege and House of
Obstruction are two names that have
often been tacked-on the Legislative
Councils in the Australian States. Old
John Verran, a one-time Labor Premier
of South Australia, once described the
denizens of Adelaide’s august Upper
House as “a bunch of perambulating
corpses.” He didn’t give a name to the
Chamber they occupied, but presumably
he thought of it as a morgue or a
cemetery.
That was back in the days when the
franchise for the Upper House was very
much restricted and the Labor party was
nailing abolition of Upper Houses very
firmly into its platform. In most States
the Upper House franchise has been
greatly extended—in Victoria adult
suffrage has been adopted—but abolition
of the Senate and Legislative Councils
is still a plank of the Labor-party plat-
form. Only Queensland has put it into
practice, though Jack Lang did make
two determined attempts to get rid of
the N.S.W. Legislative Council, then a
nominated Chamber.
When Lang Wasn’t Right
Tn Lang’s first attempt he tried Trojan
Horse tactics, but some of the shock-
troops he put inside the horse refused
to come out fighting and the effort was
wasted. Lang and Labor went into
Opposition shortly afterwards, and the
Bavin Government amended the Consti-
tution to make a referendum a pre-
lequisite of any change in the Council.
When Lang came back to office in
1930 he again tried to abolish the Coun-
cil. He got his bill through both Houses
and, ignoring the necessity for a referen-
dum, sought the Royal assent to the bill.
A group of M.L.C.s got an injunction
preventing this, and the matter went to
the courts. Then followed the strange
spectacle of a Labor Government which
claimed to have a mandate from the
people refusing to submit • its proposal
to the people, preferring instead to appeal
to the High Court and the Privy Council
after it had lost the action in the N.S.W.
Equity Court. Both courts rejected its
appeal.
In 1932 the N.S.W. Legislative Council
was reconstituted by the Stevens Govern-
ment on a basis approved by referen-
dum. It is no longer a nominated body,
but is elected by the N.S.W. Parliament,
members of both Houses voting as a
single electoral body at simultaneous
meetings. The change was resisted by
the Labor party, which reiterated its
intention to work for abolition of the
Council. Any work which it has done
towards this end has been singularly
unfruitful, although it has now been in
office for 17 years and has had a
majority in both Houses for more than
half that period. Two half-hearted
attempts were made before it gained
control of the Council; none since.
Instead, it has introduced thinly-disguised
payment of M.L.C.s, in the form of
an expense-allowance of £5OO a year.
At the A.L.P. conference last June the
Cahill Government was instructed to
carry out the party’s platform and abolish
the Council. Cahill was absent in
America, but Deputy-Premier Heffron
gave a kind of a sort of an assurance
that a referendum to achieve this would
be arranged. No action has followed his
assurance, and there is now no time for
any before the general election early
next year. Nor is it likely that the N.S.W.
executive of the A.L.P. is worrying much
about the matter. With the D.L.P. in
the field for the State election and the
possibility of a Labor defeat looming
up, the existence of a Labor majority in
the despised Upper House becomes a very
much valued factor.
Almost Universal
Although Upper Houses in general
are seldom the dignified places of
review Constitutional text-books would
like them to be, the bicameral system is
still almost universal in lands which have
adopted the British form of Parliamen-
tary government. The United States
Senate has very considerable powers, and
47 of the 48 American States use the
two-chamber system in their legislature
—presumably Alaska will follow the
same pattern. The new Commonwealth
countries have also adopted it, and among
the old ones only Queensland and New
Zealand have dispensed with their Upper
House.
In every Australian State and in the
Federal Parliament Governments of
various political colors have from time
to time had the experience of having
their legislation blocked by a hostile
Upper House. To expect this never to
happen is to ask for an Upper House
that will always be an echo of the Lower
House, and that, in essence, is the same
as asking for its -abolition. The Senate
Select Committee of Double-dissolution
Deadlocks agreed that the necessity for
a Second Chamber “reviewing or sus-
pending measures that the Lower House
has rushed through in an hour of fervor
or passion” was the verdict of history
throughout the world.
Right Principles
'T'he validity of this verdict is depen-
dent on the Upper House itself not
showing “fervor or -passion,” and the
debates in the Victorian Legislative
Council on Bolte’s two bills didn’t pass
this test. Sir Henry Manning, who re-
tired from the N.S.W. Legislative Council
six months ago, quoted last April a
memorial sent to the Secretary of State
for the Dominions in 1928 setting out the
attitude of the Legislative Council on
bills submitted to it:
If bills sent to the Council by the Legis-
lative Assembly, or initiated in the Council
by the Government of the day, have
received the approval of the people, the
Council has acted on the principle that it
should pass the bills. If bills have not
received the approval of the people, the
Council has acted on the principle that it
is both its right and its duty to exercise its
own judgment and, if necessary, to refuse
to pass the bills until they have received
the approval of the people.
Opposition parties in the Victorian Legis-
lative Council certainly didn’t act on
these principles. The Bread Industry
Bill was specifically mentioned in Bolte’s
policy-speech earlier in the year, and in
the course of his election-campaign the
Premier also rejected the proposal of a
ceiung-rate for h.-p. interest, which the
Country-party-Labor combination in the
Council ultimately tried to w'rite into his
Hire-purchase Bill. By giving Bolte’s
Government an increased majority the
people approved his policy, but the
Council ignored their verdict.
At the same time Bolte’s proposal to
provide for a dissolution of the Council
every time it defeats a bill the Govern-
ment deems vital is not the answer to
the problem. If he does that he might
just as well abolish the Council altogether.
It is probable that the new Federal
Parliament will give some attention to
the matter of Senate reform. If so, the
time might be opportune for Victoria,
and other States, to get down to the task
of deciding exactly what role Upper
Houses are to play in the modern legis-
lative structure and what is the best
way to ensure that they can play it
properly.


start the dau right?
ms,
OUO' 110
fh
6MOE«
1 S CB6Mj
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Melbourne Racing
Main talking-point in Mel-
bourne racing circles in recent
weeks has been the royal com-
mission on off-course betting.
Witnesses have come from as
far as New Zealand and
Western Australia to tell the
commissioner how the two
contrary forms of legalised off-
course betting—tote against
licensed bookmakers—operate.
Victorian parties with an in-
terest in future betting-plans
have employed skilled counsel
to put their case.
It is not politic to suggest
what the outcome of the pro-
tracted inquiry will be, but it
is to be hoped that, in con-
sidering the commission’s re-
commendations, the Victorian
Government will pay as much
attention to the good of racing
as to the possible scope for
additional revenue from off-
course betting.
This year—l9sB—was not
really a memorable one in rac-
ing. It was regrettable that
Tulloch was unable to give the
needed touch of color to the
spring carnivals, and sadder
still that there is doubt of his
ever racing again.
Horses like Tulloch are as
rare in racing as Bradmans in
cricket or Lindrums in bil-
liards, and there are many to
claim that the New Zealand-
bred colt was the greatest
thoroughbred the Australian
Turf has known, Phar Lap in-
cluded. Sailor’s Guide’s win
at Laurel was a great advertise-
ment for Australian racing, but
the general reaction was:
“What would Tulloch have
done to them!”
Perhaps the honors of the
year’s racing go to Sir Blink.
That good little colt took the
unusual double, Caulfield Cup
and V.R.C. Derby, but it must
be admitted that the opposi-
tion was not really strong.
Sir Blink’s Caulfield Cup
win, following Tulloch’s suc-
cess in the same race last year,
exploded the notion that the
big V.A.T.C. race is a hard
° ne for three-year-olds. It
looks a safe bet that next
spring a record number of
colts will tackle the Caulfield
Cup.
• • • •
Twenty years ago book-
makers in Melbourne began to
issue charts on the New Year’s
Day double, the Standish and
Bagot Handicaps, soon after
the spring carnival was over.
These days the two races
excite no more interest than
any ordinary handicap. The
“If anyone tries to come near the champion they're to be
halted and challenged .”
remedy lies with the V.R.C.
Prizemoney for the two races
£1250 for the Standish,
and £2OOO for the Bagot —
just is not good enough to in-
terest the owners of good
horses, particularly from inter-
state. The holiday season
should always be a good period
for racing-clubs, and in Sydney
and Adelaide the summer pro-
grammes are attractive. The
Port Adelaide Cup, for ex-
ample, carries £5280 in
prizemoney.
• • • •
There were plenty of signs
in Melbourne during 1958 that
administrators of Melbourne
racing hold no fears for the
future of the sport. Both at
Moonee Valley and Fleming-
ton handsome new stands were
completed. The Valley stand
is particularly notable for its
comfort and for features new
to Australian racing.
• • • •
The Valley club’s foresight
in building into the stand
reserved boxes has been a
wonderful success. For each
meeting the boxes, which can
take parties varying from two
to seven, have been booked-out.
The club plans to extend this
excellent form of accommo-
dation.
Caulfield, too, is planning
vigorously, and has acquired
additional ground behind the
course for building-extensions.
Out at Springvale work is well
in hand on the M.R.C.’s new
course, and the club hopes to
race on its own territory in
1960.
Also, administration of rac-
ing has been helped by the
completion of the new racing-
centre in St. Kilda Road,
where all clubs now house
their business operations.
* *• *
Sydney Horses
Second leg of the A.J.C.’s
summer meeting, the Summer
Cup (H mile) will be run on
Friday, Boxing Day. It’s
worth £2600, including a
£lOO trophy. Pipe On
in 1954 ran the 12 furlongs in
2.29—pretty smart time for
a midsummer contest. Bay-
stone, recent Melbourne Cup
winner, won the Summer Cup
two years ago, ridden by
A. Mulley.
Bronze Mac, Compass,
Turkestan and Marksman
should be the pick of this year's
Summer Cup entrants.
Maurice McCarten, now, of
course, a . leading Sydney
trainer, won the Summer Cup
on Vitality (8.6) 1927 and on
Vertigern (8.7) in 1931. Stan
Davidson, who has had success
as a trainer at Newcastle, won
the Cup on Donald (8.4) in
1928 ; and Darby Munro won
it on Pretzel (8.12) in 1932.
Darby has won many races as
a trainer ; he has a smart team
in work at Rand wick. Ted
Bartle, a regular race-patron
these days—he didn’t bother
to take-up training—found the
Summer Cup a real meal-
ticket. Ted today tips the
beam at about 10|st., and it’s
hard to visualise him riding the
1920 winner, Braille, at 7.5, or
the 1921 winner, King of the
Forest, at 7.7. His other
Summer Cup winners were:
Dalston (7.10) in 1930 ; Young
Crusader (8.2) in 1937, and
Malagigi (8.4) in 1940.
Romani has proved one of
the best two-year-olds of the
Sydney season. He had been
successful four times .on end
when he landed Newcastle
J.C.’s Northern Stakes. The
colt is by Damtar (Fr.) from
Dictate by Talking and is a
member of Jack Daniel’s Rose-
hill team.
• * • •
George Moore had an easy
win in Tattersall’s Carrington
Stakes last year; his mount,
New Spec, at 9 to 4 on, wasn’t


Divorce Notices
IX THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO CLIVE JAMES DAVIS late of
Wollongong.—TAKE NOTICE that
DOROTHY JOAN DAVIS has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 3472 of 1958 on
the grounds of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Macquarie
Street, Sydney by the 25th day of Feb-
ruary 1959, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from CHARLES
GRIFFITHS Solicitor, 107-109, Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO MALCOLM GEORGE WOODS, late
of Dunolly.—TAKE NOTICE that
CLARICE JEAN WOODS has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3475 of 1958 on
the grounds of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or ex-
cuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Macquarie
Street Sydney by the 25th day of Feb-
ruary 1959 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from CHARLES
GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 107-109 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
- SOUTH WALES.—In Divorce.
TO TIIERESE BULL formerly of Peter-
sham, Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
ALFRED SYDNEY BULL has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3618 of 1958
on .the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause
or excuse If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by 2oth of February 1959 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from W. D. SCHRADER &
DUDLEY, 113 Pitt Street, Sydney, New
South Wales.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
extended in clocking 1.12|.
Fastest time for the race, 1 .9{,
made by Maniana in 1956,
equalled the Randwick record.
The Carrington Stakes, worth
£l5OO, was first run about 82
years ago. A top performance
in it was that by Greenline in
1931, when he won with 10.5.
Far too many horses are
carrying overweight in races,
mainly because there are few
jockeys, other than apprentices,
able to ride anywhere near the
limit, particularly in events for
the better - class gallopers.
There has been persistent
criticism of this aspect of
racing, but not much has been
done to remedy the trouble.
However, it has been noticed
at recent fixtures that handi-
cappers are doing a little about
minimum weights. Raising of
the limit even a few pounds
above 7st. will assist jockeys to
secure more mounts. Also,
good performers should not be
penalised at the expense of
the “roughies.”
• • • •
Monte Carlo will shortly go
to America, and will be pre-
pared there by J. Bowes, who
won the International Stakes
with Sailor’s Guide. First
intentions are to start Monte
Carlo in May at Pimlico, in
the £(A)11,160 Dixie Handi-
cap, run over nine furlongs.
That should suit him nicely.
• • • *
A number of Australian
owners and trainers have made
arrangements to attend the
33rd New . Zealand yearling-
sales next month. With 437
lots to be offered, the catalogue
is larger than for several
seasons. Sixty-seven sires are
represented, including a number
with their first crops.
* . * *
More than 1300 horses have
been entered for the four
Randwick meetings over the
Christmas and New Year
period —a mighty lot of horse-
flesh. Leading Sydney clubs
are adopting a policy of cater-
ing for quantity instead of
quality, which is not in the
best interests of racing. If
continued, it won’t help
attendances, particularly at
Randwick, where patrons
expect to see the better-class
gallopers in action. Provincial
clubs, especially Kembla
Grange and Hawkesbury, are
getting plenty of support from
owners and trainers of horses
with modest form, and those
meetings should be made the
stepping-stone to competition
in better class in the metro-
politan area.
* * *
“P.0.M.C.”: Our Pentzia,
15-lengths leader at one stage
in the Melbourne Cup, estab-
lished a betting-record for
Australia, going out at the
official starting-price of 1000 to
1. This quote would have been
real had the horse run into a
place —an unwritten betting-
law provides for no limit on
starting-prices in the Mel-
bourne Cup.
* * *
“P. O. M. C.” : Tommy
Smith’s four winners on suc-
cessive Saturdays (Nov. 22 and
Nov. 29) gave that trainer yet
another record —best previous
effort on Sydney metropolitan
tracks, as far as I know, was
Bill Booth’s three winners at
Rosehill and Randwick on
successive Saturdays in 1922.
Jack Toohey “rode the pro-
gramme” at Rosehill and
missed by one (beaten a head
in the last by Jimmy Munro)
the following week at Rand-
wick. Contrariwise, Smith
took scarcely a trick during
the recent Randwick, Caulfield
and Flemington carnivals.
* * *
“Fontaine”: Sailor’s Guide's
win in the International Stakes
at Laurel, Maryland, and the
offer of film-star George Brent
to race Sir Blink, But Beauti-
ful, Master Rane and Paratone
on lease in America are
reminders that over the years
there has been a noteworthy
migration across the Pacific of
top-ranking Australian horses,
most of which went on to win
big American races or to
influence bloodstock there.
At the turn of the century
two famous Australian
stallions, Darebin and Sir
Modred, proved to be notable
sires in the U.S.A. After
World War II there was a
marked revival of U.S. racing,
particularly in California,
where the sport had been
banned for a number of years.
Several Californian owners
looked to Australia for
thoroughbreds, and the first of
our horses to go was Beau
Pere, who became another stud
success.
Then came Shannon, pro-
bably the best horse of his
age in the U.S.A. in 1948-49.
He, too, was successful at stud,
as were “the mighty” Bern-
borough and Ajax. Royal Gem,
another Australian, sired Dark
Star, winner of the Kentucky
Derby in 1953. And, of course,
there was Phar Lap.
Australian horses have also
been prominent in English
racing. Merman —considered in
Australia to be only an average
horse—was sold to the famous
Lily Langtry (“The Jersey
Lily”) and won for her the
Ascot Gold Cup, the Good-
wood Cup and the Cesarewitch
Stakes. O t h e r Australian
horses who won big races in
England were The Grafter (a
Melbourne Cup winner), New-
haven and Australian Star.
Mons Meg, a local filly, won
the Ascot Gold Vase.
* * #
Other Sports
“C.R.H.”: Attention Trevor
Bailey, Jim Burke, Ken Mac-
kay and others —here are
some batting efforts to make
you hang your heads. Trumper
and Duff twice in one season
scored over 200 runs between
4.15 p.m. and 6 p.m. Trumper
once scored 335 in three hours
in a first-grade match (when
“sixers,” of which he hit a
few, were only worth five) and
in another game made 50 in
6min. by hitting seven of the
first 10 balls out of the ground
and sending two more to the
boundary. Common feats of
50 years ago were the scoring
of 400 runs in grade-matches
in an afternoon, with an occa-
sional 500 runs in the four
hours for good measure. The
only feats comparable today
are to be seen in junior com-
petition games on Saturday
afternoons —games which are
a joy to behold. Though, for
that matter, there are stone-
wallers playing in the
“juniors,” too.
“Justin Thyme”: After
regularly switching - off the
radio as the broadcast of the
recent cricket Test in Brisbane
became too boring, my
thoughts went back some 70-
odd years to when I watched
my first Test from a tree. On
Sydney’s Moore Park, near
where the Sportsground now
is, there was a small group of
thickly foliaged trees —elms, I
think —which afforded a vant-
age-point for dozens of lads
short of the modest sixpence
then needed for admission. It
was from that leafy nest that
I saw such famous cricketers
as Turner, Ferris, Blackham,
W. G. Grace and the Read
brothers, Walter and Maurice,
There wasn’t a Bailey-type in
the whole 22 playing—all of
them batted, bowled and
fielded flat-out. Were there
any such trees overlooking to-
day’s Gabba ground I’d be
inclined towards chopping
them down to spare any pos-
sible sufferers.
“A.J.T.”: English batsman
T. S. Worthington the only
man to be dismissed off the
first ball of an England-
Australia Test (B. 12/11 /’58)?
In the third Test at Leeds in
1926, Warren Bardsley was
caught at slip by Sutcliffe off
Tate’s first delivery—the first
ball of the match. That was
the time Charlie Macartney,
dropped in slips by English
captain Carr off the fifth ball
of the same over before he had
scored, went on to make his
historic century before lunch.
“Veryl”: Freddie Brown
(B. 10/12 / ’5B) holds one
record which will take a lot
of beating—length of time
between cricketing tours. He
came to Australia with Jar-
dine’s 1932-33 team, and his
second trip was 18 years later
(1950-51). To my knowledge
no other cricketer from any
country has had such an inter-
val between successive tours
“Keima”: I like the story,
told of Brown in the third
1950-51 Test in Sydney, when,
with Bailey and Wright in-
jured while batting and unable
to bowl, three men only—
Bedser, Warr and Brown him-
self (then 40) —had to bowl
all one Australian innings.
Towards the end of a day’s
leather-hunting the ball was
hit past Bedser, who by then,
not unnaturally, could hardly
raise a gallop. “Get a move
on, Alec,” shouted Brown;


dazed—so dazed that he lost
his ring-craft, his hitting-
power, and his speed. Spring-
ing up, he went for Johnson
like a tiger. But it was blind,
dazed fury, which Johnson
met with straight lefts and
right crosses till Burns at last
succeeded in clinching. Then
Johnson .uppercut him again
and again.”
The fight, indeed, was
already decided, and Burns
probably- knew it. But the
plaque on the wall down there
is perfectly right—he was
game, was Tahmmy . . .
Overhead a grey, cloud-
covered sky. The crowd—
Burns’s way almost to a man
suddenly subdued and
silent. Round after deadly
round. “The only bright fea-
ture of the display was the
heroism with which Burns
took his smashing, and gamely
came again and again. His
face was in a very bad way.
His mouth was bleeding, his
cheek beginning to swell, and
his eyes were growing puffy.
He seemed to realise his
inability to make an impres-
sion on Johnson, who occa-
sionally stood quite still, with
his hands down, talking and
jeering at him, while Burns
skirled round looking for an
opening that never came. The
black man stood like a tower
and let Burns do the fighting.”
Again one thinks of Young
Stribling and Ambrose —in
memory impression it was so
exactly like that ; save that
both of them stayed good-
humored, and it was nice box-
ing that wouldn’t have done
much damage to a butterfly,
and any smile on the face of
either of them was at his own
expense, or at the sheer
absurdity of it all.
No, with emphasis ; nothing
at all gentle or polite about
Burns-Johnson. The fight
went to the 14th round, but it
was as early as the fifth that
The Bulletin man noted:
“Then commenced a most
beastly exhibition of rubbing
it into a man who was fight-
ing a game battle, but was
altogether overmatched. The
colored mass was quite un-
ruffled, and determined to im-
press the fact on this crowd of
white trash whose champion
he was beating. Looking down
at a photographer who was
snapping between the rope, he
remarked as he went by: ‘Did
you get that? Anyhow, I’ll
give you a good picture’; and
with that he suddenly sprang
in on Burns, smote him in the
stomach with his left, smashed
him on the jaw with the right
and hurled him against the
ropes.”
A nd thus it went on . . . the
most extraordinary thing
about it now being that it did
go on, into the 14th, in which,
after a knock-down, Johnson —
scrupulous regarding the box-
ing-rules throughout retired
to his corner. He thought it
was a knock-out. The count
went to “eight," when Burns
scrambled up and staggered
towards Johnson: “Johnson
bounded from his corner like
a panther. ‘Finish him, Jack,’
yelled his second as Johnson
swept down like a cyclone on
the staggering, almost helpless
man, and with a left smash
on his forehead knocked him
against the ropes. He was just
swinging his right for that
battered, swollen cheek again,
when the Superintendent of
Police soared up the ropes and
waved his crop aloft. ‘Stop.
Johnson!’ bellowed the Mc-
Intosh in a voice fit to wake
the dead, and Johnson’s arm
swung back as the attendants
swarmed into the ring. Johnson
hurried to the centre, and Mc-
Intosh, pointing to him, roared,
‘1 declare Johnson winner on
points.’ ”
Well, there, that's about it.
The last bit —the “points” win
—rather contradicts that com-
memorative tablet they now
have down there, though these
days—in Australian usage, at
least —it would be neither a
points win nor a k. 0., but rather
a t.k.o.
/"\N the way back after the
ghostly little ceremony on
the afternoon of December 11,
coming down Hunter Street the
newsboys were bawling,
“Result of the big fight!” . . .
“Big fight result!” And no-
body seemed to be rushing
them to read about phe-
nomenal old cullud friend
Archie Moore’s latest world-
championship win.
Ah well, good old O
tempora ! O mores !
“this is a ruddy Test-match.”
A few minutes later the ball
was hit strongly near Brown,
who swooped on it and zipped
it back to the ’keeper.
“K.R.”: Have read of an
N.S.W. cricketer in the 1920’s
who, selected in place of a
regular player unavailable, hit-
up a double-century but was
nonetheless dropped for the
following game on the other
player’s return. As a result he
is said to have given cricket
away altogether. I have never
been able to find just who
this was, but think it was
either one of two medicoes,
Bogle or Rock, both of whom
in brief Shield careers made a
double-century (Rock’s Shield
average in five completed
innings is 112). I recalled this
after seeing that Shield-record
332 for the sixth wicket by
N.S.W.’s two young batsmen
Thomas (189) and Marks (180
not-out) against S.A. recently.
The fate of the double-
century maker did not befall
either Thomas or Marks, both
of whom were retained in the
very strong N.S.W. team to
play Victoria—a team which,
as selected, had no room for
such fine batsmen as Carroll
and Booth.
• • • •
Marks, incidentally un-
doubtedly one of Australia’s
most promising young batsmen
—made the highest score in
post-war years for a batsman
in his first Shield game.
“Maros”; A Westralian
farmer, Rex Growden, made
a sensational debut into
Perth’s pennant-cricket the
other day, with Nedlands third-
grade side, when he took 6-3,
including the hat-trick. What
makes it worth noting is Grow-
den’s age on this entry to a
higher grade of cricket—49.
“Regel”: When Roy Kilner
toured Australia with Gilligan’s
team in 1924 I sat near a
barracker on the Melbourne
ground. Fed-up with Victoria’s
slow scoring, he called out to
Kilner near the fence, “If
they give you a bowl and you
get that stonewaller out I’ll give
you a quid.” Gilligan heard,
Kilner got a bowl, and out the
batsman went. The barracker
paid-up cheerfully. By a great
coincidence I met the same
chap again when the present
English team was in Mel-
bourne, and (by another
coincidence, perhaps) there
was some more slow scoring
when Victoria batted. But the
barracker’s financial affairs had
altered. “Got any money for
an English bowler?” I asked
him, in recalling the Kilner
incident. “Ah, if they can’t get
the ball through the field
let them score slowly. I’ve got
no money to spare these days.”
• • • •
“Sam”: An impressive
runner at the 1958 N.S.W.
Combined High Schools carni-
val, at the S.C.G., was 16-year-
old Murwillumbah High School
boy Hugh Small. The only
competitor from the school
at the meeting, he won the
100yds. senior in lOsec., and
the 220yds. in 22.35ec. George
Soper, secretary of the N.S.W.
Amateur Athletic Association,
afterwards described him as
“championship material,” and
is going to see if Small can be
encouraged and developed. He
doesn’t get many opportunities
for training where he lives.
Incidentally, he belies his sur-
name, being tall and long-
legged.
* * #
Three recent world-title
defences, two successful, one
not: In his seventh successful
defence of the light-heavy title,
which he won on points from
Joey Maxim in 1952, old-
stager Archie Moore, after
being down three times (once
for nine) in the first round,
k.o.’d in the 11th round British
Empire champion Yvon
Durelle, of Canada, who at
29 is still young enough to be
Archie’s son. The dethroned
champ, was welterweight Virgil
Akins, who won the title, then
vacant, after k.0.-ing Vince
Martinez in June this year—
new champion is 24-year-old
Californian Don Jordan, who
beat Akins on points over 15
rounds. Also successfully
defending for the seventh time,
world flyweight champion
Pascual Perez, of Argentina,
who outpointed Filipino
Domrny Ursua.
* * *
“Zorok”: One of the changes
decided on by the International
Amateur Boxing Association
at its recent meeting is that the
bell is not to be sounded if the
ref. is in the process of bending
over and counting-out a pros-
trate form. So no longer can a
boxer (amateur variety, any-
way) be “saved by the bell” —
and a handy cliche may be lost
to the language.
* * s<
At Sydney on Monday,
Dec. 15, 22-year-old ''North
Coast (N.S.W.) aboriginal
Johnny Jarrett (Bst. 61b.) won
the Australian bantamweight
title by defeating Queenslander
Dick White (also 8.6) on a
t.k.o. in the 10th round. White,
who took the title off Kevin
James in Brisbane last year,
wasn’t in the hunt against
Jarrett.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SOVIET SEVEN-YEAR PLAN
/commenting on the Soviet’s
new Seven-Year Plan,
“Manchester Guardian” notes
that Russian Premier Khrush-
chev “makes promises of two
kinds”:
“The first is almost millenial.
By 1970 at the latest, he says,
the Soviet Union will have
attained ‘the highest living-
standards in the world.’ It will
have outstripped the United
States, both absolutely and per
head of population, in the pro-
duction of ‘material values’
and since this is, in Communist
eyes, ‘the decisive sphere of
human activity,’ the result will
prove to all the world the
‘absolute superiority' of the
Soviet over the capitalist
system. More theoretically, and
in curiously labored wording,
Mr. Khrushchev holds out the
prospect that in 15 years Russia
will pass into the blessed state
called Communism, under
which all material needs will
be met.”
Assessing the possibilities of
the promises, “New York
Times” comments editorially
that, “given the totalitarian
nature of the Soviet economy,
it is not surprising that past
post-war plans for heavy
industrial development have
had comparatively good
records.
“In early 1946, for example,
Stalin predicted that by about
1960 or 1965 the Soviet Union
would be producing annually
60-million metric tons of
steel, 50-million metric tons of
pig-iron, 500-million metric
tons of coal and 60-million
metric tons of oil. The petro-
leum target has already been
exceeded ; the figure for coal
will be reached approximately
this year ; and the target for
steel seems realisable by 1960.
Only pig-iron output is rela-
tively laggard. Against this
must be set the fact that the
sixth Five-Year Plan, covering
1956-60, had to be abandoned
last year, in part because its
performance was well behind
schedule.
“A far less impressive record
appears if we turn to items that
enter the standard of living,
such as consumer goods and
food. The Soviet people can
hardly have forgotten that the
grandiose promises made by
Malenkov and Mikoyan in
1953 of a sharply higher
standard of living to be
achieved in two or three years
never came even near to being
realised. As long ago as 1952
Soviet planners announced a
grain-harvest target for 1955 of
around 180-million tons, but
that goal—which was restated
for 1960 in the sixth Five-Year
Plan has not been reached
even in the extraordinarily
good harvests of 1956 and of
this year.”
On the other hand, notes
New York “Herald Tribune ’
in an editorial comment on a
report on Russia by Philip
Reed, chairman of the General
—London "News Chronicle”
"WELL, ULBRICHT, SHE’D ONLY BE NICE UNITED IF
WE HAD THE OTHER HALF.”
Electric Co., “the Soviet form
of State capitalism (which
isn’t Socialism at all) has some
great inherent strengths in its
skilful use of tried and true
capitalist methods —big bonuses
for outstanding production,
managerial incentives, plough-
ing-back of profits for new
expansion.
“The greatest single flaw in
its otherwise efficient produc-
tion system is, Reed believes,
the concentration of all plan-
ning into one single, massive
bureaucracy.
“Our [America’s] greatest
single advantage in this
sharpening production - race,
and one which he [Reed]
believes will prove decisive, is
the fact that we have thousands
of competing private enterprises
which are constantly beating
their brains and prodding their
laboratories for new, creative
ideas which will increase their
sales, their competitive position
and hence the further growth
and expansion of the economy.”
Foreign Aid
/Commenting on the commit-
tee appointed by Presi-
dent Eisenhower to “scrutinise”
the U.S. foreign-aid pro-
gramme, with particular refer-
ence to the “relative emphasis
between military and economic
aid,” “New ’York Times”
points out that “the commit-
tee’s deliberations will have to
take account of the changed
shape of the problems before
us” :
“Eight years ago, at the
height of the Korean war, there
was reason for fearing Com-
munist military attack as the
chief menace and therefore
reason for believing that mili-
tary assistance was primary.
Today, while the menace of
military attack cannot be
excluded, it is clear that the
focus of concern has shifted to
the economic field. In par-
ticular, it has shifted to con-
cern over the political gains
which the Communist nations
may make from their pro-
gramme of economic aid to
underdeveloped countries and
also the propaganda gains they
seek to obtain from the rapid
industrial development of the
Soviet Union.
“That development, of
course, is held out as the
magic technique whose emula-
tion in, say, Indonesia or India
would, the Communists claim,
enable those countries to move
forward rapidly toward meet-
ing the needs of their peoples.
“There is a rising current of
opinion in this country [the
U.S.] that believes the way to
meet the altered Communist
challenge is to put far greater
emphasis upon economic aid
for underdeveloped countries.
That greater emphasis, it is
held, must be reflected in a
national willingness to devote
substantially more financial
resources to this task and to
assure that the actual job of
helping these countries is done
more skilfully and more effec-
tively than has been true to
date.
“If the committee comes to
some such conclusion as this,
then it will also be its task
to explain to the Congress and
to our people that penny-
pinching ‘economy’ in this area
could be disastrous indeed. In
J;his period when the Soviet
Union has emerged as a finan-
cier of Argentine oil-develop-
ments and of the building of
the Aswan Dam our thinking
and our policy require sub-
stantial readjustment from old
attitudes born under different
conditions.”
On the same subject, London
“Financial Times” adds that
“Arab or Asian visitors to
Russia, who are impressed by
the speed of the industrial
revolution which the U.S.S.R.
has accomplished in one
generation, are not interested
in comparing Moscow and
New York shop-windows”:
“Rightly or wrongly, they
come home determined to
achieve a comparable advance
in their own countries. The
U.K. with its Commonwealth
responsibilities, and the U.S.
with its economic resources,
clearly share the main part of
the responsibility for helping
the poorer countries to develop
their economies without adopt-
ing Communist methods and
instructors.
“But it would be asking for
disillusionment to expect poli-
tical friendship in return for
financial assistance alone. The
provision of help can in fact
even increase the unpopularity
of those who provide it, as the
Americans have already found
to their disappointment. But
this is not a reason for giving
up and returning to a more
purely military approach to the
cold war. If the under-
developed countries find that
economic progress is com-
patible with a system of gov-


Between
Ourselves
&
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week.
ernment less totalitarian than
that of Russia or China, this
itself will be a sufficient reward
for the West, in addition to
the satisfaction of seeing
poverty and disease relieved.”
Cyprus
Cupporting the U.K.'s present
stand in Cyprus, “New
York Times” writer Hanson W.
Baldwin notes that many
Americans who have been
critical of the British position
might find the tactics used
against the British in Cyprus
being turned against America
in some future time:
“Surrender to terrorism
could mean the slow erosion
of the power of the West
around the globe. Moreover,
it implies a shocking moral
indifference to tactics that
cannot be justified by any ends.
“The British have shown
remarkable restraint in Cyprus,
and, after an initial political
intransigence, they, now
appear to be doing their best
to find an answer to the
Cyprus problem. But they
have been aroused quite
rightly—by recent murders.
“Public opinion in this [U.S.]
and other free countries could
sound the death-knell of terror-
ism if it condemned it in un-
qualified terms. Two ends
could thus be served: a better
climate would be created for
a Cyprus settlement, and the
West would serve notice that
it did not intend to allow its
global positions to be under-
mined by the threat of terror.”
Palestine Refugees
York Times” editorial
comment on the plight
of 900,000 Arab refugees now
existing in the Gaza Strip, in
Jordan, and in smaller numbers
in Lebanon and in Syria:
“The subject comes up every
year when the director of the
U.N. Relief and Works Agency
for Palestine Refugees reports
and asks for the money he
needs. This year the request
is for about $36 million, which
comes to less than 10 cents
a day for each refugee, count-
ing the costs of food, of some
health care and of a limited
amount of education. Of this
amount the United States pays
70 per cent., Britain about 20
per cent., Russia nothing what-
ever.
“Israel has offered to take
back an unstated number of
refugees who have relatives
|n that country and to pay
immediate compensation to
—Vienna “Die Presse”
DANCING TO KHRUSHCHEV’S DRUMS.
those who do not go back. It
is clear that relatively few can
go back. There may be, in
time, new opportunities for
refugees in Iraq, in Syria, in
water developments in Sinai
and in the Jordan Valley, but
that time is far off.
The immediate thing to do at
the U.N. Assembly is to get
pledges giving director Carver
the 10 cents a day his helpless
wards require. For this pur-
pose the Secretary-General
must be authorised to use his
influence and persuasiveness.
“This country [the U.S.]
ought again to take the lead.
And we must plan for a final
solution that will preserve the
integrity of Israel, promote
peace in the Middle East and
bring out of their long wander-
ing in the wilderness the
900,000 innocent victims of a
quarrel that ought to be ended
for ever.”
Atlas
■pRiTiSH and U.S. press-
comment on the success-
ful 6325-mile firing—from
Florida to the waters around
the Ascension Islands—of
America’s intercontinental bal-
listic missile, Atlas:
“Manchester Guard i a n”:
“The Americans have fired an
Atlas missile over its full
range of 6325 miles: the Rus-
sians, it is reported, have begun
flying the prototype of a
bomber driven by nuclear
power. Neither represents a
weapon ready for immediate
use, since both the missile and
the bomber can be only at the
development stage. But if the
reports are to be believed—
they come from the United
States, one being official and
the other unofficial—each de-
velopment is likely to result in
a usable weapon fairly soon.
“The missile will be one
that can reach targets any-
where in Russia from bases
dispersed deep in the North
American Continent, and it is
said to travel the equivalent of
1000 land-miles in about five
minutes. The bomber may
be one that can stay in the
air for days on end (just as a
nuclear submarine can stay
submerged for long periods,
that can fly at very great alti-
tudes, and that can be kept in
the air ready to strike towards
its target when ordered.
“Thus each of these
weapons has its military advan-
tages: each adds to the politi-
cal deterrent by making more
certain the destruction of the
other side if war is started:
but each adds to the appalling
problems of maintaining mili-
tary and political control over
the men who have charge of
the weapons themselves.”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scot sm a n”:
“The claim that there are ‘no
fundamental question-marks
left in the Atlas programme’
sounds even more encouraging
to Western strategy. It should
mean that all major problems
have been solved—including
the problem of re-entry. To
make a rocket fly 6000 miles
would be unprofitable if the
H-bomb warhead were de-
stroyed by heat as it re-entered
the earth’s atmosphere. Have
the Americans, in fact, solved
the re-entry problem? They
overcame it earlier this year
for weapons of intermediate
(1500-mile) range. The 6000-
mile flights of Thor-Able
rockets in July were obviously
to test nose-cones for the
1.C.8.M.”
* * *
New York “Herald Tri-
bune': “Atlas is by no means
the last word in American
missile development. Titan
and Minuteman are being
readied for their places in the
1.C.8.M. arsenal—the former
greater in range and size than
Atlas ; the latter more versatile
and easier to launch, with its
solid fuel. But these are re-
finements ; the main point is
that Soviet diplomacy and
strategy, to the extent that it
has been based on the argu-
ment that the United States
did not possess a workable
1.C.8.M., will have to be
adjusted to the new state of
things.”
* * *
London “Economist”:
“When this greatest of deter-
rent weapons goes into service,
the political as well as the
strafegic equation will be
altered. Since last year, when
Russia announced that it had
tested an intercontinental
rocket, the world’s eyes have
been focused on an evident
disequilibrium: the fact that
the new Soviet weapons could
deliver hydrogen-bombs onto
American soil without inviting
direct retaliation by the same
means. The United States has
thus become temporarily more
dependent on those of its
friends and allies from whose
territory intermediate - range
bombers or missiles, like the
Thors recently installed in
Britain, could reach Russia.
True, the Americans have con-
tinued to express confidence in


the deterrent effectiveness of
their intercontinental - range
bombers ; but at the same time
they have pressed on with their
missile-programme —and the
result is, at last, Atlas.
“America’s relations • with
its European allies, with
Japan, and with countries like
Morocco, Libya and Saudi
Arabia, will all be affected if
it soon possesses rockets that
can hit Russia from launching-
pads in the United States, and
nuclear - powered submarines
that can stay underwater in
sea areas from which their
nuclear missiles can reach the
Soviet heartland. Although
dispersal and ability to resist
local attacks will both remain
important parts of the deter-
rent equation, there seems
bound to be a relative fall in
the value of bases such as
Okinawa, Dhahran, Torrejon,
and East Anglia.
“In some areas, local fric-
tion over American bases may
decline spectacularly par-
ticularly if the United States,
aware of its strengthened bar-
gaining position, boldly inti-
mates that continued sniping
will lead it to pull out, and
thereby stimulates the smaller
nation concerned to think fast
about the moral support and
material benefits it has been
deriving from having the bases
on its soil. One may even
envisage, in due time, a Wes-
tern readiness to let a general
disarmament agreement in-
clude liquidation of overseas
bases —a concession which
would then deprive Russia of
one of the main blocks it now
uses to resist any such general
agreement.”
"Flags of
Convenience"
CJhips flying “flags of con-
venience” —i.e., registered in
Panama, Liberia or Honduras
to escape the increasing burden
of taxation —have long been a
headache for the traditional
maritime countries, so it was
not surprising that British
press-comment was mildly
approving when the Interna-
tional Transport Workers’
Federation staged a boycott of
them.
“Manchester Guardian,”
while noting that “trade-union
action is not a substitute for
Government” —“it will not for
instance, make the British
Government modify the taxa-
tion that makes tax-free flags
attractive nor persuade the
United States Government (to
say nothing of the American
maritime unions) to relax the
demands which make American
shipowners turn to other flags”
—commented that “the mari-
time sin of sailing under false
colors has passed into the
language as an epitome of
deceit, but the seas today are
full of ships whose flags are not
those of their owners' country”:
“What was once re-
garded as an interna-
tional crime is acquiesced in,
if not connived at, by many
Governments. It has been left
to a trade-union group to
attempt concerted action
against shipowners who dodge
the taxes and other irksome
obligations of their own
countries by registering their
ships under the flags of
Panama, Liberia, Honduras, or
any other nation which will
— N.Y. “Herald. Tribune"
END OF THE CHAPTER.
accept them on what they
regard as favorable terms.
“The crews on many of
these ships earn high wages
and enjoy excellent working-
conditions ; but the unions
detest them because, they say,
the men who sail in them are
outside the protection of
national agreements and have
none of the social security that
seamen under their ships’
national flags can rely upon.
“The most that the unions
can hope for [from their
boycott] is greater readiness by
individual shipowners to sign
agreements, and more contribu-
tions from the shipowners to
the ‘welfare-fund’ from which
they make payments to seamen
who are not entitled to some
nation’s unemployment pay,
sickness benefit, and the like.
The boycott can do little to
sweep ‘flags of convenience’
from the seas, and nothing to
resolve the real problems that
have brought them into being.”
The union boycott was only
partially successful “a pur-
poseful gesture rather than a
serious strike,” London “Finan-
cial Times” called it, the same
paper adding that “this is
indeed a dispute in which one
cannot feel wholehearted sym-
pathy with either side. The
international labor boycott is
a dangerous and, in principle,
undesirable practice; on the
other hand, these shipowners
have deliberately put them-
selves outside national loyalties
and cannot claim their pro-
tection. They cannot ask for
the benefit of responsibilities
they do not accept, or of taxes
they do not pay.”
On similar lines, Edinburgh
“Scotsman” found it ironical
that, “by their action the
unions indirectly benefit ship-
owners of the traditional mari-
time nations, to whose trade
the flag -of - convenience
operators present a grave and
growing threat”:
“Satisfaction among owners
who have long since toed the
union line may be mixed with
anxiety at the strength of the
weapon the unions are forging
all round the world. The rights
and wrongs of the case could
be argued endlessly. The boy-
cott was occasioned less by bad
conditions than by a failure to
give long-term guarantees. Even
if the ‘pirate’ owners do spend
more money on their crews
they will continue to escape
heavy taxation, thus enjoying
a competitive advantage.
“The loophole may be
narrowed, but not closed until
Governments agree to discipline
their nationals in this matter.”
Various Voices
Vice-President Nixon : “The
American Government and
people want peace. We wel-
come the opportunity to
discuss and settle any
differences we have with other
nations at the conference table.
But we believe that we in the
free world could render no
greater disservice to the cause
of peace than to fail to stand
firm against the use of aggres-
sive force as a means of
settling differences between
nations.”
Sir Anthony Eden : “Drift
is the demon of democracy.
Democracies should rather con-
sider, in any step they take in
world affairs, whether what
they do will serve only to
relax tension for a while, or
whether it is in the true interest
of lasting peace. That is the
difference between appeasement
and peace.”
Prime Minister Macmillan:
“History does not stand still.
Nations grow-up. And it is
we ourselves [Great Britain]
who have of our own volition
been the artificers of the transi-
tion from Empire to Common-
wealth. There is today only
one colonialist and imperialist
Power in the perjurative sense
of these terms and that is
Soviet Russia. Here is the
vital conflict of our time. Two
utterly opposed conceptions
are fighting for the souls of
men —the Communist view of
the individual as merely a pawn
and a slave under the dictator-
ship of a minority, and our
belief in a free society based
on respect for human per-
sonality. There is a military
threat from Communism, and
a Government’s first duty is
to provide security against it,
but this is only one aspect of
the problem and perhaps in the
long run not the decisive one.”


FaiiJi ill lAc
Fultlf*C
Christmas takes on a new significance to the
Christian who has visited Bethlehem. The story of
the Nativity then assumes another dimension;
comes out from the imagined setting. an(J
lives and moves.
It was my good fortune to visit Bethlehem
this year.
This city of David, to which Joseph and
Mary had gone to be enrolled according to
Ccesar’s decree, stands on a height above a valley
that is laced with vines and olive groves.
On the lower landscape is a cathedral in the
shape of a five-pointed star, marking the field
where the shepherds were watching their flocks
on the first Christmas night.
Bethlehem, in exterior, is golden in the
sunlight; like so many other towns in the
Holy Land.
Central in its cluster of buildings is the Church
of the Nativity; a pile of antiquity built by the
Crusaders upon the remains of a Byzantine
structure, which in turn had been raised upon the
site of earliest Christian shrines.
Inside the Church, the Altar is approached
through a double row of imposing red columns;
forty in all.
The cave where Christ was born is under the
Altar. It is reached by a flight of steps down from
either side. The actual site of the Nativity is
indicated on the floor of the grotto by a marble
slab encasing a silver-starred aperture into which
the devout, kneeling, may put their hand.
In another chapel a few paces away is the
Manger on which the Christ Child was laid.
Something is added to a Christian’s life by
standing in these hallowed places. It had often
been my wish to bring Bethlehem into my visual
experience. Now I had seen and sensed it in reality.
And when the bells of Bethlehem ring out
their message of goodwill in broadcast to the world
this year, hearing them, I shall have the enduring
memory of that visit to accompany the wish I
now extend to you:
A good, a joyful, and a blessed Christmas!
long, gold ear-rings and her
heavy bangles looked like
chains, even though they were
pretty. She was calling our
names: “Rashida. Nimmi.”
1 dropped my eyes and saw
how small her feet were in
their gold-cord sandals. I
turned and hid my face in
Ama’s dress, but she pulled
me round to face her mother.
“This is your nani, your grand-
mother,” she said. “Be
friends.”
“I have brought thee
presents,” said the stranger in
her sweet Hindi.
“Presents?” said Rashida.
“I will give them to thee.”
She opened a box that was
on the table. It was full of
parcels. There was one that
had to be taken in to the bed-
room to Lai, a sulwa and a
jacket of white silk, a hat with
gold thread on it and slippers
that turned up at the toes.
There was a parcel for the
baby—tiny gold bangles, and
gold ear-rings for when she
was big. There was a parcel
for Rashida and me, “the im-
patient ones,” as grandmother
laughed and called us —
bangles and ear-rings, and
silver ankle-chains with tiny
bells to ring wherever you
walked. We put them on and
made Ama laugh at the way
we ran and skipped and
jumped, to make music.
But the present that was for
Ama made her cry. It was a
pair of long, gold ear-rings,
and the part that hung was a
lotus flower of little rubies and
pearls.
Ama held them in her hand.
“They are Kashmir,” she said.
“They are home, and the
flowers at home.”
We danced then to cheer her,
and our feet made silvery
sounds as the sun jangled on
our chains. We all laughed
and smiled.
Then we showed nani, our
grandmother, everything ; the
Indian garden, the gumtrees
and the kurrajongs, Yasmin
the goat and Shah Jehan the
peacock. We explained the
hills, their names and how
there were only five of them,
and all the work on the farm.
We pointed to magpies and
kookaburras. And, in the days
after, we followed her like
shadows, like slaves; talking
in Hindi and calling each other
“thou” and trying to speak
beautifully, like her. Even
when she sat quietly by Lai’s
bed, whispering him stories
that, we thought were stories
for babies, we stayed close to
her and listened.
Because we loved her. And
we loved her food, too. The
dal she cooked was wonderful
—full of spices and strange
tastes. She made other curries,
from eggs and from all sorts
of vegetables that we had never
thought were vegetables at all.
We tried to learn how to make
them, too.
Sometimes, though, after sit-
ting politely through our
Brahmin dinners, father would
go from the house and visit
Uncle Seyed, who was eating
meat like a virtuous Moslem.
The day we visited Uncle
Seyed’s house he was not at
home; and before we took
grandmother in to see the fur-
niture he had made Rashida
run ahead and hide his meat-
safe in the woodshed. If
grandmother had known she
would most probably have
laughed—unless she was as
polite as we were being.
T al became very ill. Uncle
Seyed rode into town to
bring the doctor, and grand-
mother, no longer playing
tired, gracious and kind, be-
came the hospital - lady ;
bathing Lai’s head, darkening
his room and telling all of us
what we must do —even Ama
and father and Uncle Seyed.
It was she who ordered Uncle
to ride for the doctor.
When the doctor came he
said it was meningitis, and the
long, strange word made Ama
afraid. But grandmother
simply asked him what was to
be done, and she wrote down
all that he said.
Lai lay on the bed and did
not know us, not one of us.
Sometimes he called out the
names of his birds and his
voice sounded like Lai. But
sometimes there was no sound
except his breathing, thick and
whispering; not like Lai at
all.
Every day grandmother sat
by his bed and every day the
doctor came from town.
Whenever Ama was free of
the kitchen and the baby she
sat with grandmother, the two
of them watching the boy.
One morning when grand-
mother sat in the garden, very
tired and quiet, with her eyes
shut, I ran up to her, to talk.
I was lonely. Rashida had no
time for me ; she was being
gfown-up and helping ; help-
ing in the kitchen, helping
with the baby, so that Ama
could be with Lai. So I called
grandmother “nani” and
started to chatter.
She opened her eyes and
(Continued on page 58)


Morrison’s Wonder Water,”
which was made-up of
Epsom-salts, cochineal and
sugar. He reckoned people
must have had a lot of faith,
or there may have been some
curative properties in the
“Wonder Water,” for on
returning to some towns after
an absence of years many
of his old customers would
take a dozen bottles, to be
assured of a supply pending his
next return.)
Another chap had perform-
ing fleas. I was not interested
in these, having had a lot of
experience with them in swag-
men’s huts.
Ashton and St. Leon had the
circus. It was a very good
show, and had a good
menagerie. Among the
acrobats, who were first-
class, was Maggie Ashton,
who has been in America with
her family troupe for many
years. She would then have
been about 15 years old.
"O uenalf put on his first show
that afternoon. There were
a couple of scraps ; the first,
between two showmen ; the
second, a grudge - match
between a pair of local lads.
This was a wild and woolly
brawl with no punches barred.
The boys put everything they
had into it, and when, at the
end of four rounds, George
declared a draw, everyone was
happy. The two somewhat
battered boys left the tent with
arms around each other’s
shoulders.
Then George made a
speech, explaining that the bout
between he and I was not to be
fought. A demonstration of
the finer points of the “noble
art of self-defence” would be
held instead. We boxed three
rounds, and he could have
knocked me cold any time he
liked, but he was careful not
to show me up, and made it
appear that I knew as much
of the game as he did. We
got a great ovation, and George
promised to put on another
exhibition later.
Mrs. Ruenalf put on a turn
at the punching-ball ; this alone
was worth the price of admis-
sion. A young aboriginal beat
time on a drum, while she did
things to the ball that had the
crowd amazed. For five
minutes she kept the ball
moving with her fists, head and
shoulders. I have seen many of
the champion ball-punchers,
but none could have given
Mrs. Ruenalf any start.
I had another spar with
George, two hours later, and
it went over well again.
Then to the ball. This was
to have been a posh affair, but
when we arrived it seemed that
everyone was there —squatters,
boundary-riders, showmen and
their womenfolk were'mingling
freely. Dutchy and myself were
probably the only swagmen
present, but as we were dressed
neatly we could have passed
for squatters’ sons. We sang
between each dance, and
Dutchy never missed a dance.
He was an excellent dancer, and
as he knew all the latest steps
he was very popular. The
sergeant of police tried to stop
the dance at midnight, but no
one took any notice of him,
and it went on till daylight.
The Show went on till noon
Saturday, then adjourned for
the races, which seemed to me
to be a bit on the Rafferty-
rules side. But I heard no
complaints.
We went to the boxing-tent
again, and George and I put
on our usual show. Dutchy
and the aboriginal who played
the drums for Mrs. Ruenalf
clowned their way through
three rounds and got a good
shower of coins.
Qunday was quiet through the
day, but we did all right
that night around the churches.
In the main street we had just
started when we had a bit of
opposition from Charlie
Keenan, a Negro singer from
America, who had been follow-
ing the shows for some years,
busking. He had a very good
voice and accompanied himself
on a portable organ. He had
been in town since Friday, but
had been on the booze all that
time. Being Sunday, he had
sobered-up a bit, but was still
shaky.
Dutchy was singing “Mother
Machree” when Keenan set
up his organ and started sing-
ing “Swanee River.” It was
a deliberate attempt to break-
up our crowd, but the police-
man ordered him to move on
or be arrested. He was lucky,
as some of the chaps were sug-
gesting that he be thrown in
the Barwon. Dutchy sang the
song at the request of the
policeman. (But he didn’t put
anything in the hat when I took
it around.)
Keenan had an enormous
mouth, and he could pull his
bottom lip down, tuck it under
his chin, and sing with his
huge teeth and gums showing.
I thought it revolting, but a lot
of people were fascinated.
Monday the Show went on
as if time didn’t count. Every
tent and booth still had their
crowds, who seemed bent on
spending their money. We
each had two spars. Dutchy,
who was really a good boxer,
clowned through both, keep-
ing the audience roaring with
laughter, and getting a good
shower ea'ch time. I had one
spar with George, in which we
went a bit harder, but I came
through without damage. The
last bout was with a local lad
who fancied himself as a
fighter, but as he had been
training on beer he folded up
after a few punches.
GEORGE RUENALF
(Photo, taken shortly after he
had fought Felix.)
George Ruenalf had an
idea of turning his show into a
combined boxing and vaude-
ville outfit, and he wanted us
to join-up with him. We were
too set on shearing, so had
to turn it down.
About 2 p.m. the rot set
in. Horses were being
harnessed, mothers Were gather-
ing their children, tents were
coming down and Brewarrina
Show was over. Buggies
sulkies, springcarts, saddle-
horses and bicycles were
moving off in all directions.
Some had 100 miles to go
before reaching home. One
family husband wife and
three children were riding
three horses and leading a
packhorse to Mulga Warrina,
50 miles up the Bogan. A
girl (seven) and a boy (four)
double-banked one horse,
while the mother and father
carried the 12-months-old baby
in turns. No wonder Henry
Lawson spoke harshly to Texas
Jack, when he came to Aus-
tralia to teach the natives to
ride. They intended to camp
at Gongolgon that night, and
expected to be home at noon
the next day. As I watched
them going out across the plain,
the packhorse jogging along
behind, I thought again of the
pioneers. Dutchy was think-
ing the same. He summed it up
in a few words: “Their blood’s
worth bottling.”
/Charlton was a big station.
Thirty-eight miles frontage
to the Bogan River and running
back for 16 miles. We were
taken out to the camp in a
buckboard, drawn by two half-
broken horses, and we didn't
enjoy the trip.
As a buckboard today Would
be a museum-piece, a descrip-
tion will not be.out of place.
Four-wheeled, no springs and
flat-bottomed, it was the handy
vehicle of the station for the
carrying jobs which the jeep
does now.
Naturally, it was very
rough. After nearly 20 miles
in the buckboard we had col-
lected a few bruises, and were
aching all over. We were very
pleased to reach the camp.
A Frenchman, Hector La
Traille, a colonial-experienced
man, was in charge. Not a bad
chap, though sometimes he
would be a little pompous.
Two others were jackeroos.
One was very friendly, and
would come to our tent and
listen to our tales of the track
for hours. Only two months
out from England, he was very
keen to learn, all he could
about the bush, and said that
the best teachers would be
the men who did the actual
work.
The other jackeroo was very
arrogant, and expected the men
to call him Mr. Armitage. He
picked on Dutchy, the second
day on the job, and demanded
that he be treated with greater
respect. When Dutchy laughed
at him, Armitage tried to
enforce his demands. He was
unlucky ; though he was 3st.
heavier, Dutchy, not knowing
anything about the “Old
School” traditions, dropped
him in less than a minute.
The cook was a Chinese,
Ah Luey. He had a garden at
Gongolgon, on the Bogan, and
was married to an aboriginal
woman, and had six children.
The family worked the
garden, while he went
cooking round the stations.
Born in Australia, he always
spoke of himself as a white
man. He had been fairly well
educated, and loved a political
argument. He was a good
cook, and looked after us well.
His wife came to the camp with
a sulky-load of vegetables once
a week. We had to pay for
these, as they were not included
in the station rations.
The other men were from
various country towns and
were all good types ; friendly,


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
7be Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
PI ease find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington. N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin** or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
and easy to get on with at all
times.
'T'he poison-carts were the
■*- first serious attempt to
control the rabbit-invasion in
N.S.W. The rabbits were
coming from the west and north
in millions, and any method of
hand-control was futile on
stations as big as Charlton or
any of the huge western hold-
ings. So the poison-cart was
invented.
The first was the Pearson,
named after the inventor, a
grazier in the Brewarrina
district. Then Fortescue and
Co., of Arncliffe, Sydney, built
another, which was a big im-
provement on the Pearson. This
was the type we were driving.
Built after the style of a
village cart, without springs, a
single-tine plough, a five-gallon
drum with a screw inside which
forced the poison mixture
through a small hole, and a
knife, controlled by a cam, to
regulate the size of the bait.
The plough was raised or
lowered by a lever, which also
threw the machine out of gear.
The baits fell into a funnel
behind the plough, and into the
furrow, about 2in. deep. The
poison was pollard and phos-
phorus.
We drove in formation,
about 30yds. apart, while La
Traille rode behind, going from
cart to cart seeing that the
baits were falling evenly
spaced. Occasionally the
funnels would choke if the
pollard had been mixed toe
wet ; all carts would halt till it
was rectified. Fifteen miles
would empty the drums, and,
with eight carts, that meant a
long trail of poison.
But all this made little im-
pression on the hordes of
rabbits. After a paddock had
been poisoned they would be
scarce for a week or two, then
would appear again as thick as
before. It was impossible to
get any idea of the num'bers
killed, for, with phosphorus, so
many died in the burrows.
One thing the poison-cart’
has been blamed for is up-
setting the balance of Nature
in regard to the insect-pests,
mainly grasshoppers. 1 am
inclined to favor this point
of view. There would be
hundreds of insect-eating birds,
ibis and magpies mostly, lying
dead on the trails a few days
after the carts had been
through. Poisoning in all
forms reduced the birds to
such an extent that ground-
nesters, especially the ibis,
have never recovered. Probably
they might have done so had
not the foxes and cats been
brought into the war against
the bunny. And from personal
observation I know that foxes
and cats prefer birds every time
to rabbits.
At the time I was there over
200 cats were released on
Charlton station. The station-
owners of the district were
scouring the towns for cats of
all descriptions. Some
hundreds were brought from
Sydney. And the squatters
sat back, expecting to see the
bunny wiped out at*no cost to
themselves. But, like many a
well-laid plan, this one was
a failure. When back on
Charlton for a few weeks, in
1912 there were more rabbits
than ever. And wherever cats
had taken possession of a
burrow, feathers were more
plentiful than fur ; and the
foxes preferred lamb to rabbit
TJrrs were another method of
control, and accounted for
a lot of rabbits. Holes 6ft.
square and 6ft. deep were dug
at intervals along the netting
fences, boarded over, with
narrow trapdoors set in, and
netting wings run off them
for 20yds each end.
The trouble with the pits was
keeping them in working order.
As the bunnies were falling in
day and night, and piling up,
the lower ones smothered, till
the pit was a mass
of putrid bodies. So the
job of emptying these is
easy to imagine. It was hard,
even in those times, to get
men to take on such a job.
Some of the stations had
hundreds of miles of netting
fences, and the pits were
usually spaced about 200yds.
apart.
As well as stinking rabbits
there were other unpleasant
things to be contended with.
In the summer snakes and
goannas were often found in
the pits, and to slide down a
hole and find a bad-tempered
snake, eager for a fight, is an
experience not easily forgotten.
Goannas were never very
friendly, either, after being shut-
up for a few days. But these
were only to be worried about
in the warm weather. Cats
were always on the job, and
were always treated with
respect. When a pit was nearly
full, any rabbits still alive
would huddle as far back as
possible while the lid was
being lifted, but cats would
dash for freedom the moment
they saw daylight. And they
always took the shortest route,
which was usually over the
man lifting the lid.
One was bad enough, but
sometimes there would be
several in the rush, and half-
a-dozen clawing, spitting, snarl-
ing cats climbing over your
face is not really pleasant.
At last the great day, the roll-
call for shearing at
Charlton, arrived. 1 was a
bit nervous when I went into
the office to sign-up. Mr.
Lacky Syrma, who had been
very friendly since I had met
him in Brewarrina, shook
hands and wished me plenty
of big tallies. I told him I
had never shorn before. He
laughed and said, “Never mind,
I’ll tell Mr. Macdonald, the
boss of the board, to keep an
eye on you. I think you will
do all right, but don't try to
ring your first shed.”
There was still a lot of
bitterness between the owners
and shearers over the strike of
1902. Neither side would give
more than they were com-
pelled to give under the
Shearers’ Agreement. For
many years shearers and shed-
hands had been looked on as
necessary evils, to be used
when needed and cast aside
for the next 12 months.
Accommodation was rotten, to
say the least. Huts were built
of bark or slabs, with leaking
roofs, no windows, earth
floors, bunks in three tiers and
bare boards to sleep on. The
sheds were in the same condi-
tion. Floors were on ground-
level, and shorn sheep had to
be pushed out into the count-
ing pens. The A.W.U. agree-
ment specified a lot of im-
provements, but in 1905 few of
the stations had done much
about it.
Charlton was one of the
few. A new shed and living-
quarters had been built only a
few months previously, and
the old shearers were lost in
admiration as they strolled
through, praising the new
engine, handling the new
machines (Wolseleys), praising
the layout of the pens, and
talking wisely of the overhead-
gear, friction-wheels, etc.
None of them worried about
the fact that the sheep would
be the same wrinkly, burry,
tough - woolled, kicking
animals they had been shear-
ing for years.
The huts came in for a lot of
praise, though the bunks were
still the same bare boards.
Plenty of grass and coolibah-
leaves would make them a bit
softer. The mess-hut and the
galley were highly commended.
So Charlton’s new shed and
all the buildings were passed


as a fit and proper place for
the shearers to work and live in.
When the roll-call ended, the
representative for the
Australian Workers’ Union was
elected. Jim Vance, one of
the fastest and best shearers
I have known, was elected
without opposition.
Then the cook was put in.
(Cooks are never elected, but
always “put in.”) We had six
to choose from, and Sid Bennet,
one of the best-known cooks
in the West, was put in. Having
over 100 men to cook for, he
selected two offsiders, some-
times called “slushies,” and
started his duties immediately.
The rep.’s next job was to
call for a show of tickets
(union). Any without an
A.W.U. ticket had to promise
to join at the end of the
week. Shed-hands were to
do the same. None grumbled
about this, as it had been made
known that no non-unionist
would be allowed to start.
Then pens were drawn for.
Two shearers to each pen, and
the two who shared a pen
were known as “pen-mates.”
Names were placed in a hat
and two slips were drawn each
time. These two shared a pen
till the cut-out. My name
came out with Bill Starr, who
came second to the rep., who
rung the shed. Bill was a good
bloke, and showed me how to
hold the sheep and many other
tricks of the trade. There is
always some rivalry, friendly
or otherwise, among pen-mates,
but mine gave me all the help
he could.
Shearing started at 2 p.m.,
and there was a race to
shear the first sheep in the new
shed. The rep. won it, and I
came a good last.
On the advice of the boss of
the board, I spent most of the
afternoon watching and
“barrowing” ; that is, finishing-
off. Bill would shear to the
whipping side, then pass the
sheep to me, and, as it was
straight going, seven or eight
blows would complete the job.
This got me used to the feel
of the job, and I was able to
shear with confidence the next
morning. I was soon holding
my own with the other learners,
of whom there were five.
The boss of the board
advised me to go slowly and
conceritrate on clean shearing
till I became proficient, and
then gradually speed-up. He
said: “Clean shearing is more
important than fast, rough
shearing, and if you get a
reputation as a ‘tomahawk’ you
will find it hard to get sheds.
Watch Vance or Starr and try
to copy their style, but don’t
try to shear as fast as they do
for a lon£ time.”
I didn’t try to beat Vance
or Starr, as Jim’s tally was
274, Bill’s 263, and mine 49.
(“Tomahawks” were shearers
whose sheep looked as though
they had been shorn, or hacked,
with that implement.)
The penner-up was an im-
portant man in a shed. He
was responsible for keeping
the pens full. The last sheep
in the pen had to be caught
before the pen could be
refilled, so the penner-up had
to be lively when several pens
became empty at the one time.
Shearers always caught the
easiest sheep first, so the last
one to be shorn was the
roughest, known as the
“cobbler.” Where this name
started would be hard to find,
but it derives from “The last,
what the cobbler killed his wife
with.”
Pickers-up took the fleece as
it fell on the board, and spread
it skin-side-up on the wool-
tables. The wool-rollers, two
at each table, would strip 3in.
of skirting round it, roll the
fleece and throw it in a bin,
where the classer would
examine it, and place it in a
bin according to its class. The
skirting went on another table,
where the piece-pickers sorted
it into three grades: clean,
stained and burry.
The pressers were kept busy.
They worked on a contract
system, at so much per bale,
and the rules of the shed did
not apply to them in regard to
hours. It was not unusual to
see them working long after the
shearers had finished for the
day.
Ti>fANY of the old blade-
shearers were having their
first shot at the machines, and
finding it tough. Their chief
trouble was getting the knack
of holding the sheep in the
correct position, which is
different from that of the
blades. Also, some found it
hard to refrain from opening
and closing their hands, which
generally meant the machine
would finish-up jumping .
around the board, resulting in
a broken comb and a lot of
bad language.
The different positions also
found the weak spots in their
backs. Many shearers had bad
backs, and most of them
blamed shearing wet sheep for
this. It was mostly the first
shed of the season when it
caught up with them. The first
week at Charlton it was not
unusual to see half-a-dozen
men making their way to the
huts on hands and knees. No
one offered assistance, as it
seemed a point of honor to
reach their bunks under their
own steam. Every man would
be at his pen when the whistle
blew next morning.
The old shearers were always
sure of a good audience when
they were in the mood for a
yarn. I heard for the first time
of Jacky Howe, Chinee
Sullivan, Joe Davis and many
other big-guns of the blades.
Stories of the strikes, which
flared-up at intervals for 20
years; the strikers’ camps of
• Menindie, Louth, Dunlop and
Walgett; the burning of the
river-boats with their loads of
strike-breakers ; and the clashes
between strikers and the
police. The men of those
days were tough, fortunately
for us, otherwise we would still
be living in a state of semi-
slavery.
Till well into the ’nineties the
squatter had the privilege of
raddling any sheep not shorn
to his satisfaction, and the
shearer would not be paid for
it. He need not give any
explanation of why he con-
sidered the sheep not properly
shorn, and the laws of the day
would uphold his action.
Steve Field, who had been
shearing for 30 years, and
had been in every strike, told
of cases that he could vouch
for of men who had shorn
2000 sheep, and nearly half of
them had been raddled. He
admitted that few squatters
would go to such extremes, but
all had that power if they
cared to use it.
HThe men at Charlton were,
on the whole, a decent lot,
with no quarrels of any note.
There was a pub at Tarcoon,
a few miles across the Bogan,
and a few of the men would go
to it at the weekend, returning
on Monday morning, sick,
sore, sorry, and swearing
“Never again!” But they were
at Tarcoon the next Saturday.
I was surprised at the
number of illiterate men among
the shearers. On the first
Sunday I was writing home
when a man older than my
father came up with a great
air of secrecy, and asked would
1 write a letter to his “old
woman.” I agreed, got ready,
and said, “Now, what do you
want to tell her?” He replied,
“Oh, you know, just write her
a nice letter.” This made me
scratch my head. I couldn’t
think what a man would like
to write to his wife, who would
probably be 60 years of age.
However, I wrote as I would
to my mother, pausing only to
ask for names and anything of
note he would like to include.
There were six children, and
I gave each one a separate
mention. His only other
remarks concerned his shear-
ing-tallies and the weather.
When I read it back to him, he
nodded and said, “That’s a real
nice letter. The old woman will
like it.”
I wrote three more letters,
one dictated, the others left
to me to write as 1 thought
best. Dutchy was aiso in great
demand as a scribe, and wrote
six. When the replies came,
we had to read them, and then
write the answers. We didn’t
mind doing this, and we were
always rewarded with plenty
of thanks.
TTo the best of my belief, it
was at Charlton that
“Hughie,” as the chief deity in
the job of controlling the
weather, came into being.
As the shed-hands were paid
wet or dry they always looked
hopefully at any clouds that
came into the sky. Laying
in bunks, playing cards or
reading and getting paid for
it was much better than
handling burry wool.
We had been shearing about
three weeks, and had fine
weather all the time. The
rousies were longing for a
break. Then the weather
changed, and a light shower
fell, and the clouds promised
more. Ten points must be
registered before a vote on
whether the sheep are too wet
to shear can be taken. Only
five points were in the first
shower, but during the 10-
o’clock smoke-oh another
shower started-up, and the
pattering on the roof was music
(<Continued on page 55)


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Competing for Capital
A spirit of lively competition
between the States may be
stimulating for trade and may
eventually put us in a better
position to meet international
competition ; but just now it’s
causing a lot of bad feeling,
not only between the States
but also between old and new
industries within the States.
The carbon-black factory to
be established in Victoria was
a bad case of misapplied com-
petition. Westralia didn’t have
Buckley’s chance of getting the
factory, but by making almost
ridiculous offers it put the
company in a better bargain-
ing position. That’s probably
happening in any number of
cases and could be avoided by
the States consulting in a
spirit of genuine co-operation.
Australia is one of the areas
where investment is most likely
to show good returns, and
given normal inducements
capital will flow here. We
shouldn’t have to beg for it.
Another aspect is revealed
by the disclosure that an over-
seas firm plans to erect a light-
engineering plant near Fre-
mantle. Good news, of course
—any State would welcome a
new factory like that —but pro-
prietors of established indus-
tries, who paid their way from
scratch, are asking was it
really necessary to give the
new investors the land, plus a
big percentage of their estab-
lishment expenses, plus other
inducements which add up to
quite a sizeable gift from the
taxpayers.
What it amounts to is that
overseas investors have only
to let it be known that they’re
considering moving into Aus-
tralia, and they can sit back
and take their pick of what’s
offering, while the States raise
their bids at every move. In
W.A., at least, the Government
has stated its willingness to
resume land from owners who
don’t want to part with it—
certainly not at the Govern-
ment’s price—and give it to
foreigners with plenty of
money.
We want all the fa’ctories
and all the capital we can get,
but investors are sensible,
hard-headed men. They'll
invest where they can see pros-
pects of long-range profits, and
immediate inducements need
only be reasonable. Mean-
while the Governments could
give more consideration to
helping industries which have
battled their way up from
nothing, and in many cases are
still battling.— Spin (W.A.).
Japanese Toys
So there is to be an inquiry
into the importation of Japa-
nese toys because Australian
manufacturers are not finding
their Christmas sales as high
“Been abroad ?”
as they hoped and there is
unemployment in the industry!
In general, Australians have
an extraordinary attitude to
the question of Japanese im-
ports. It is implied that it is
something of a concession for
the Japanese to be allowed to
sell in the Australian market ;
the fact that the Japanese can
supply us with goods we want
at a price considerably lower
than the same type of goods
made locally is generally
ignored. The value to the Aus-
tralian people of the savings
thus made would surely, in the
long run, offset any temporary
dislocations of industry and
employment.
The ideal situation in inter-
national trade, of course, is
that each country exports those
goods in which it has the
greatest comparative advan-
tage. Today trade agreements,
quotas and tariffs almost com-
pletely conceal any tendencies
towards this, and Australian
economic production is so
diverse that a cry goes up if
any industry strikes competi-
tion. It is not a healthy sign
when industry requires much
protection tariffs to protect
infant industries, yes, but it
appears that some Australian
industries will always be in-
fants. —G. R. (Tas.).
Political Disunity
Two things stand out very
clearly after the sweeping
Liberal-Country-party victory
at the recent Federal elections.
The first is the almost complete
disappearance of the Labor
party as we have known it in
the past. The second is the
lack of any organised Opposi-
tion facing the Treasury
benches.
A noted authority on the
science of Government who
wrote, “The strength of Her
Majesty's Government may be
gauged by the strength of Her
Majesty’s Opposition,” hit the
nail squarely on the head. A
strong Opposition keeps the
elected party on its toes. It
stimulates keen debate, which
acts as a brake to reckless or
lazy government. A strong
Opposition speaks forcefully
and effectively for the minority
who may be a minority by
only a handful of votes. A
weak, divided Opposition
encourages weak, complacent
government because there is
no real threat to the party at
an election.
The present Federal Govern-
ment has carried out its
duties admirably. It has
steered the country through
the threat of inflation when
high rural prices, particularly
for wool, encouraged reckless
spending. But the longer it
remains in office without any
real Opposition, the more com-
placent it could become. This
could be dangerous when con-
ditions at home and abroad
are changing so rapidly. A
general fall in rural prices;
a scramble for limited
markets; competition from
the cheap-labor countries ; The
spread of Communism all
these call for stern measures
by a Government really on its
toes.
The Labor party has no
future as it now stands. The
Q.L.P.-D.L.P. will never win
an election nor prove anything
more than a nuisance. The
A.L.P., torn between Right
and Left, will always be the
“taii-on-the-dog” party.
If it ever hopes to reform
and become an effective poli-
cal force the A.L.P. must
realise that the average worker
who supports Labor wants a
fair spin for himself and the
man who pays him. They
must also realise that the
average Australian detests
Communism. That has been
amply proved by the way the
Commos poll at the elections.
The A.L.P. must also realise
that the average Australian
detests the way Commo coun-
tries are played-up to the detri-
ment of Australia.
Most of the original aims of
the Labor movement are now
outdated. What is needed is


a united party, without Com-
munist hangers-on and with a
policy suited to the age in
which we live. When it shapes
its form to these requirements,
it will once again be a power-
ful Opposition —it will also
take some stopping at an elec-
tion. — Windy (Q.).
Divided We Fall
I haven’t any particular
brief for Roman Catholic
interests, but there can be few
elements so exasperating in
the present-day political scene
as the suicidal insistence, by
each of the various factions
opposed to Communism, that
it must be defeated only by
their own and individual way.
No other will do —in fact, they
would sooner support the
enemy than let the rival
method succeed.
I can see nothing in the way
Catholics propose to fight
Communism of which any
other opponents of it need be
ashamed.
In “The Observe r”
(29/11 /’5B) we have “Mugga”
lashing out at the Catholics
because he feels they want to
“dictate who shall govern the
country.” For Pete’s sake, they
are surely no orphans even if
they did, but I don’t see it
that way. Their aim as stated
is to stop the Communists from
“Were playing motorist and pedestrian.”
governing. In other words,
anyone else is welcome, which
is not quite the same thing.
As these are entirely my
own sentiments, I support
them heartily. I am not a
member of any political party
and have in my time voted
Labor, Lib. and C.P. —in other
words, mainly according to
the man.
But I am unquenchably
opposed to what is known as
Russian Communism, by
which the arbitrary rule of a
privileged bureaucratic class,
backed by a political police-
force in no way connected
with the administration of
justice, could be enforced on
my perfectly satisfactory way
of life, wherein I have spent
40-odd years learning the rules
and can apply them to my
benefit without hurting anyone
else.
And, looking about me, I
can find a big majority who
must, in ordinary common-
sense, agree with this view.—
R.H.G. (W.A.).
Railway Deficit
The N.S.W. Government
professes to be greatly con-
cerned over the mounting
losses On its transport services,
but maintains a tongue-in-the-
cheek attitude towards the
financial position of the rail-
ways, which admitted a deficit
of more than £8 million for
the last financial year. At first
thought this is a disastrous
position, but in fairness to the
railways it should be explained
that the interest-bill for the
same period was nearly £ll
million, and that a consider-
able portion of this was paid
on money lent to the State by
a Federal Government which
did not itself borrow the
money but raised it by taxa-
tion.
It is surely a crazy financial
arrangement when this is
allowed to go on happening
year after year ; and my point
is that if the States had any
fighting spirit they would com-
bine to upset it.
A number of Common-
wealth instrumentalities, such
as the post-office and the
A.8.C., are financed to the
tune of many millions each
year out of revenue on which
they are not required to pay
any interest at all. The post-
office gets more than £3O
million a year and not only
pays no interest on it but is
not liable for any repayments
either. Even then it has had
to increase its charges sub-
stantially in recent years to
avoid a substantial deficit ; I
shudder to think what those
same charges would be if in-
terest had to be paid on the
capital invested, as in the rail-
ways.
All the N.S.W. Government
does in an attempt to improve
the financial position of its
railways is to impose harsh and
restrictive taxation on its com-
petitors, the road - transport
system. Clearly there is a limit
to this, and that limit now
seems to have been reached.
What astonishes me is that
the Premier of South Australia,
hard-headed Sir Thomas Play-
ford, whose transport services
are also “in the red,” does not
lead the States in a full-
blooded fight against the
Federal system of financing
State enterprises. I have little
sympathy with the States as a
whole in their efforts to main-
tain their sovereign rights ;
but while we have States they
should be treated fairly, and
that is not happening at the
present time. — Peter Simple
(N.S.W.).
New Rich—Why Not?
1 weary of the pseudo-
intellectuals poking fun at the
self-made man and his posses-
sions. If a man, through sheer
hard work, makes his money
honestly and spends it wisely,
why should it be a matter of
derision if he buys a large
home and furnishes it accord-
ingly? Why can’t he have
a swimming-pool, a couple of
streamlined cars, and send his
children to expensive schools?
Must he apologise to all and
sundry if he and his wife have
a trip abroad and she returns
with a mink and a few fashion-
able clothes from Paris or else-
where?
People returning from a
hotel at some holiday-resort
have a habit of sneering about
the place being overrun by
nouveau riche. Well, why not?
Riches start somewhere, and
better right now than never. —
Fradelle (Vic.).
William Knox D’Arcy
“Piketrailer” (B. 19/11/’5B)
is somewhat off centre in citing
William Knox D’Arcy as an
Australian financier who
pioneered Middle East oil.
D'Arcy certainly did blaze
the oil-trail in Persia, but he
was English, not Australian.
With his solicitor father he
came here in 1866 and settled
at Rockhampton. For £5OO he
became a partner in the Mount
Morgan Gold Mining Co.,
struck it rich, and by 1889,
when he returned to his native
Devonshire, had a personal
income of not less than
£175,000 annually.
D’Arcy invested his Aus-
tralian-made fortune in a
Persian oil-search, struck oil
in 1908, and the syndicate of
which he was a member sub-
sequently became the company
that set the industry on its
feet in the Middle East. His
name is perpetuated by the
D’Arcy Exploration Co. and
the Llandarcy refinery in Eng-
land.
Australians, notably Fred-
erick Morgan and Thomas
Hall, were associated with him
at Mt. Morgan, but D’Arcy
became the dominant figure.—
Xavier (Vic.).
Munich
“Suburbia” is right in his
defence of what Chamber-
lain achieved at Munich (B.
15/10/’5B). The wonder is that
notable people should go on
repeating a catchcry without
verifying the truth.
Those who would like a
simple outline could well read
Wing - Commander Paul
Richey’s Fighter Pilot, an
account of the air warfare in
England and France from
September, 1939, to June, 1940.
At the time of Munich, Richey
states, “the ‘ British fighter
squadrons were equipped with
ten-year-old Hawker Fury bi-
planes with two slow-firing
machine-guns and a top
speed of 220 m.p.h.”
“Fortunately for us, and for
England and the world, Mr.
Chamberlain had managed to
stave-off the war for a year.
That vital year gave the R.A.F.
time to complete the re-equip-
ment of the regular fighter
squadrons with modern Hurri-
cane and Spitfire fighters, which


“We cant close the damn thing!”
had eight rapid-firing machine-
guns and a top speed of 350
m.p.h. or so.”
Reading the story of the
Battle of France in the air,
and, later, of the Battle of
Britain, one is forced to the
conclusion that success was
greatly assisted by the “delay-
ing action fought by Chamber-
lain” at Munich in October,
1938.
Richey goes on to state, “in
1938, an old-fashioned and
totally unprepared R.A.F.
suddenly had to face the pro-
spect of going to war with the
world’s biggest, strongest and
most modern air force.”
Later their squadron and
others were given a lecture on
the German Air Force: “and
when he gave us details of the
number and equipment of the
German bomber- and fighter-
squadrons we were staggered.”
Further on he states, “but
it rubbed in what a narrow
escape England had had at the
time of Munich in 1938.”
Little more need be said,
but it is worth noting that
Neville Chamberlain must have
blown some powerful kidstake
into Hitler’s ear to cause him
to- postpone the war until Eng-
land was better prepared. In
fact, it might be a good idea
to find out the tactics that were
used, because we may need
them again should we be hard
pressed.— Fiddles (W.A.).
Smoking and Cancer
In 1951, 81,788 persons died
in Australia, nearly 11,000 of
them from cancer. Of the
latter, 982 died from cancer of
the respiratory system. The
Commonwealth Year Book for
1954 (the nearest to hand),
from which the figures were
taken, does not state how many
of the 982 deaths were caused
or accelerated by smoking, but
no doubt the figures for 1954
and succeeding years are avail-
able, even to people like “Well-
cured” (B. 19/11 / ’5B) who
possibly don’t understand the
significance of cold figures.
There is as yet no evidence
that the normal human life-
span has increased during the
last 10,000 years. The effect of
modern hygiene, the increased
productivity of the earth, and
the wide and rapid distribution
of medicines, food and services,
has merely been to ensure that
more people come nearer to
living-out the normal span. It
follows that the proportion of
old people in the world is
increasing, and of the 11,000
deaths noted above, four out of
five occurred at the age of 55
or over.
Further, if one-by-one we
begin to eliminate certain
causes of death, such as cholera,
smallpox, malaria, etc., surely
it is evident that the number of
deaths from the remaining
unconquered diseases must
rise?
Here, then,-are the two main
reasons for the increasing rate
of death from cancer. At the
same time it is reasonable to
assume that the deathrate for
any particular form of cancer
(referring to the seat of the
disease) would also rise.
In not one of the many press-
items on the subject of lung-
cancer have 1 yet seen any
figures, let alone a statistical
analysis, stating the known
deathrate from cancer brought
about by smoking. I’m begin-
ning to doubt that I shall.
That lung-cancer can be
either caused or aggravated by
smoking now seems to be con-
firmed beyond doubt, even
allowing for the exaggerations,
contradictions and publicity-
hunting of part of the medical
profession, but to what extent
smoking causes it, what are
the necessary attendant condi-
tions, why most lungs are
resistent, what in the cigarette
is the harmful agent, and other
interesting things we don’t
know.
As a probable annual rate
in this country of less than one
death in 10,000 caused by
smoking is not very common,
and in a world that within a
mere two generations’ time is
going to contain 5000-million
people (many of them no
doubt dazed by nicotine), I can
recommend to “Well-cured”
many alternative pursuits to
crusading against death by
cigarette.— Millicent (Vic.).
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 518
Across-
I—Allotment1 —Allotment employs flowers. (7)
4 —Drums to empty and circle manuscript cat nominatively
and possessively. (7)
7 —Sequel to car-smash equipment for frying a German
river with a bell’s sound. (5-7)
9 —Wicked in one Ecuador city mentioned by us. (10)
10—Bone state basis for Pelion? (4)
12—45 in. (3)
13 —Sports need an ex-P.M.’s sharpen-
ing device. (5, 5)
17 — Cabin’s Greek coin circles
manuscript. (10)
18 — Seek to remove the mustiness
from melody. (3)
19 — Mashed peas in section of the
cathedral. (4)
21 —Mouthless as some love-apple
pronoun. (10)
23—Century feature of the English
Chiltern, a home-wrecker in
2000. (7, 5)
25 — Chapel effort by an Oriental
detective. (7)
26 Teeters spot cutters. (7)
Down
1— Asymmetrical prune was parti-
san. (8)
2 Weight’s crook —it’s the finish of
an illness. (11)
3 Tiny in the small street suit they
love. (11)
4 A baby drink. (3)
5 A naughty, mischievous girl
shows 1000 in the cube-root
thereof. (4)
6 -5-down sounds just like these
luxuries she might conspire to
acquire. (5)
B—A8 —A tea rule is broken, but decor-
ated by degrees. (8)
11 —Crustaceans need a salad item
with a pea container in South
Australia. (11)
14 — Short sojourns in ports of call
imitate any corker bowling. (4-5)
15 — Trade union looks over these
Italians. (7)
16 — They pulverise torchbearers on
the council. (8)
20 —Tell tales about a beauty fruit. (5)
22—Bet this an alternative to a
bridge kick. (4)
24—Coppers? Yes, Doris; there’s
time. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 517.


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
DEVELOP NEW SOUTH WALES?
[By D. C. TILGHMAN]
The Sydney press has been
giving some prominence to
the opportunities open to land-
seekers in Western Australia.
It would appear that quite
a number of N. S. Wales
farmers are either going over
there, or considering going, the
major attraction being the
cheap land. In my own area
a young farmer sold-out last
week and is off to the Busselton
district. An excellent type of
dairyfarmer, he is taking with
him a wife, three young
children and substantial
capital.
I agree that land in N. S.
Wales is too dear, so far as
the safe-farming districts are
concerned, and too much
capital is tied up in it. But
why not do something with
the millions of acres along the
Barwon and Darling? I know
from personal experience that
if water is put on that country
it will grow anything save
purely tropical products. At
present thousands of millions
A fire break should be
made by burning
rather than by plough-
ing because burning
produces a clean strip
free from vegetation.
The danger area
should be sprayed with
a Aveed-killer whilst
the surrounding
growth is still green.
This would enable the
sprayed strip being
burned off with safety
after drying out. For
safety reasons, too,
lambs should be
marked and tailed by
Elastrator Rubber
Rings. The action of
the rings in produc-
ing atrophy does not
induce wounds which
can permit the entry
of disease germs in the
blood stream.
of gallons are simply running
to waste.
Only very limited irrigation
is permitted, because, in a
bad drought, what water there
is in the Darling might be
needed for stock or the towns.
But when the old river comes
down in flood, as it does
periodically, it is a second
Mississippi, up to 70 miles
wide. What is urgently needed
is a dam on the lines of the
Hume (or perhaps a couple of
them) on the headwaters up in
the high-rainfall country.
With adequate water for
irrigation, both Bourke and
Brewarrina could become
second Milduras (probably
bigger, for both have a greater
potential) and moribund towns
like Louth, Tilpa, Wilcannia,
Pooncarie and Menindie could
be flourishing settlements. At
present the best of that country
sells at £3 10s. per acre, most
of it for less than £2, and a lot
of it for £1 and under. Ade-
quately watered, there is almost
no limit to its value.
According to the C.5.1.R.0.
and the N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture, some of the best
tobacco grown in Australia is
produced at North Bourke, on
land which, before it was used
for tobacco, was worth round
£1 per acre. Citrus - fruits
and grapes grow to perfection
on the red sandy loams along
the Barwon-Darling. Today,
save for the tobacco-farms at
North Bourke and three citrus-
orchards, that country is in
the same state as was the
Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area
before the advent of water.
The rainfall is erratic.- At
Bourke it might be 36in. or it
might be less than 10. I was
town- or shire-clerk there for
four years, and know how
variable is the fall. I know,
too, that Bourke is the largest
wool-shipping centre in Aus-
tralia, but I also know that
many of the wool-men are not
too happy about present or
future prospects, and would
welcome the advent of large-
scale irrigation and the result-
ing prospect of fat-lamb pro-
duction. To realise the differ-
ence water has made one has
only to driye along the Murray,
first on the Victorian side with
its irrigation-farms from
Yarrawonga to Mildura pro-
ducing fat-lambs, butter and
fruits, and then return along
the N. S. Wales side, where,
except at odd spots, there is
no irrigation. On one side a
succession of thriving towns ;
on the other a few decayed
villages.
N. S. Wales and Victoria
went in behind the Snowy
River scheme ; there is nothing
save lack of vision to stop
N. S. Wales and Queensland
from damming the Macintyre
and Severn and doing exactly
the same for the northern part
of this State and the west as
far down as Wilcannia, as
well as a substantial portion of
southern Queensland. Right
along the Barwon and Darling
the land is almost all Crown
leasehold, so that there would
be no heavy resumption-costs.
I read recently in the press
that Cahill and co. propose to
resume 29,661 acres of land in
various parts of the State for
£341,812, to be made into 24
farms for woolgrowing and
sheep-breeding. The average
cost of such farms works out
at £14,242 each. This prime
cost, plus necessary improve-
ments, surveys, administration,
etc., will bring the total of each
farm to well over £20,000, a
terrific load with which to
saddle any young man starting
out on his own.
Have the leaders of the
Liberal and Country parties
sufficient vision to announce as
part of their policy for the
coming election that they will
cease these extravagant resump-
tions, and develop the States
own heritage? If they do, they
are going to receive a powerful
lot of support, and not only
just along the Barwon and
Darling, for the whole economy
of the State would benefit.
Bulking Apples
“Windy”: Orchardists hope
that bulk-handling apples will
cut costs for them as it has
with sugar and wheat. It will
mean the end of the familiar
bushel export-case, but no one
will mourn the passing of that,
so long as there are greater
profits and increased sales.
The present method of pick-
ing the fruit will not change
much. The pickers will still
pick into bags around their
waists. When these are filled
the fruit will be tipped into the
bin on wheels which follows
the pickers up and down the
lines of trees. There are several
ways of getting fruit out of
these travelling bins, the easiest
possibly being a trapdoor
which will allow the fruit to
be spilled direct on to the
grading-belt in the shed.
Bulk-handling will not cut
out grading. Once the fruit is
graded it will be packed into
25-bushel jumble-packs. The
ideal pack has not yet been
produced, but cardboard
cartons with steel frames seem
to hold out promise. With these
reinforced packs, bruising is
practically eliminated.
From experiments already
carried out, it appears that
bulk-handling may reduce


High-Grade
Riding Boots
For over 50 years, Byrne Bros, have
been Australia's leading shoe makers.
Quality, styling and true craftsmanship
will be found in every pair of Riding
Boots, whether they be a stock size or
tailored to your individual requirements.
Riding Boots, tailored from high-quality
imported German Calf and English Silk
Elas dc £l2/12/-
Tadored to measure .... £l4/14/-
YRNE BROS.,
Shoemakers for 50 years
15 WILMOT STREET, SYDNEY
{Opposite the Trocadero )
handling by anything up to
60 per cent. A saving
of 60 per cent, man-hours in
handling is enough to commend
the method to any orchardist:
Add to this a reduction as
great as 50 per cent, in bruis-
ing, and the cost of cases and
repacking when fruit is
graded, and it’s easy to see why
bulk-handling is more than an
experimental dream. It holds
the greatest cost - cutting
potential that applemen have
seen for a long ‘time.
"No Substitute for
Wool"
•
“Observer”: Back from four
months abroad, J. N. Bridg-
land, chairman of Bridgland
Brown Pty., Ltd., is convinced
that wool’s future is still very
much assured, despite setbacks
from synthetic fibres.
Other findings : The sheep is
still the most economic means
of producing any fibre, but
woolgrowing-costs must be
reduced, and smaller properties
are bound to find the going
harder in this respect.
“The greatest confidence I
saw in wool was in England,
where everyone is on wool’s
side, wants wool and sells
wool,” he says. “Shop-
assistants there are fully
informed on the value of
woollen goods.”
He thinks one of the causes
for temporary lack of demand
for many commodities, includ-
ing wool, is the trend towards
hire-purchase buying. He
believes we will see an increased
demand for wool and clothing
generally when the initial
impact of h.-p. recedes. But
whether the majority of people
have bought TV and other
goods (in preference to cloth-
ing) on a six-month basis or
over four years is a little harder
to fathom.
Sugarcane Harvesting
“North”: The Americans
have announced production of
a new cane-harvester, which is
an improvement on the one
used in - the demonstrations
mentioned in B. 15/10/’5B.
Weighing little more than half
the other, it is hydraulically
controlled, self-propelled, and
can be operated by one man.
It is estimated to cut about 12
acres a day.
Meanwhile, two top execu-
tives of a Westralian firm which
makes farm-machinery have
been touring sugar-centres
between Mackay and Mossman
(N.Q.) to gain first-hand in-
formation of conditions under
which mechanical harvesters
would have to operate, so as
to be able to design one.
In October an Australian
company demonstrated another
machine to over 1000 cane-
farmers in the Ingham (N.Q.)
district, claiming it to be the
only one in the world which
combines cutting, topping and
loading into one continuous
sequence, and that it will halve
grower’s costs for those opera-
tions. The trial was success-
ful ; the harvester cut cane
both upright and lodged
(beaten to the ground) and
dealt satisfactorily with cane
growing on ridges.
This harvester is self-pro-
pelled ; it can be side-mounted
on a tractor, but detached in
a few minutes if the machine is
wanted for other work. It
tops the cane with a rotating
knife, adjustable between
4ft. and 10ft. It cuts
at ground-level by means of
a toothed rotary-disk. The
cane is tipped forward, so that
the butts are fed into a
chopping-cylinder, which cuts
them into pieces Ift. long and
then delivers them into a
transport-bin. The bin, which
holds about 3 tons, is mounted
on a tramway-truck, and
carried behind the harvester on
a trailer.
For cutting cane on a ridge
there is a floating shoe which
runs on each side of the row,
to prevent cane escaping under
the side-walls ofjhe harvester.
This allows the height of the
base-cutter to be adjusted to
the height of the ridge.
The machine eliminates all
foreign matter, such as dirt,
rocks, dust, sticks, etc., leaving
only a minimum of leaf and
tops. This is an advantage over
the present method of hand-
cutting and grab-piler loading.
The company expects to have
the harvester on the market in
about 15 months’ time, costing
between £3OOO and £4OOO,
which is almost half that of
the American machine demon-
strated earlier. The C.S.R. co.
intends to place a machine of
this type in the Macnade and
Victoria Mill areas during
1959, so that a full test of the
invention can be made.
Blight
“Agricola”: Blight isn’t a
spectacular disease. It doesn’t
kill stock overnight like black-
leg, for example. Therefore
many farmers are inclined to
take it lightly. But it is giving
cattlemen quite a lot to worry
about this summer.
Dry, dusty conditions, with
plenty of flies, are ideal for
the spread of this disease. A
serious outbreak can cause
man-sized losses in the crearn-
and-milk cheque, and beef is
lost as cattle wander about
half-blind and in acute pain,
sometimes colliding with fences
and falling into gullies.
Blight is mainly spread by
flies. If flies are prevalent they
set-up an irritation in the eye
of a healthy beast, and the
inflamed tissue becomes an
ideal medium for the infection
borne by the flies from a
“carrier” there are always
some in any herd.
Every stockowner knows the
signs of blight: first, watering
of the eye, then sensitivity to
light. The eye becomes swollen
and red, and if the trouble is
neglected an abscess will form
on the highest point of the
eyeball and cause partial, if
not complete, loss of sight.
Prevention is difficult in beef-
cattle. The main effort must
be to keep down flies. In ticky
country the use of the modern
tickicides generally gives a
certain amount of control. In
fact, many beef-raisers claim
that since D.D.T. and other
preparations came on the
market, blight is not nearly as
serious as it used to be.
Dairyfarmers have a better
chance of keeping down flies.
In ticky country modern dips
and sprays have the same effect
as they have in the beef-raising
districts. In tick-free areas, use
of D.D.T. or a similar prepara-
tion every week or so will do
the trick. A spray along loins
or neck with a hand-atomiser
can be given when the cow is
in the bails, after the machines
have been taken off.
Fly-baits, such as diazonin,
spread about the yard or at
the end of the shed-drain will
prevent flies breeding, while
concrete holding-yards at the
bails will prevent dust.
Treatment is simple, but
must be applied early—once the
abscess forms on the eye it’s
too late to do anything very
effective. Remember that the
eye is a sensitive organ, even
if it does belong to a cow or


bullock. Therefore, prepara-
tions like kerosene, powdered
alum, boracic and other home-
cures are “out.”
The most effective remedy is
an antibiotic, such as penicillin
or streptomycin, which dairy-
farmers generally keep handy
for outbreaks of mastitis. As
soon as the first signs of
trouble appear, squeeze a little
of the antibiotic into the lower
eyelid. The animal will close
the eye over the ointment, and
the heat of the eye will melt
the antibiotic and smear it over
the whole of the eyeball. One
or two applications are all that
are necessary.
The disease can spread to
humans, and is a very painful
one. So wash your hands well
after treating a beast. It only
takes a few seconds, but may
save a long spell in hospital.
Four Excellent Peas
“Myall”: All closely related,
cow-peas, Poona-peas, Reeve’s-
peas and Christaudo-peas, are
excellent for green-feed, graz-
ing and green-manure, while
the pods and seeds are edible
and make good substitutes for
green-string and Lima beans.
All need the same cultivation,
although the rate of sowing
varies.
Prepare the land as for maize
or sorghum, then sow the seeds
either broadcast or in drills. If
fertiliser is needed use a mixture
such as 4-12-4 at the rate of
lewt. to 2cwt. per acre.
For grazing or green-feed,
sow at the rate of 101 b. to 151 b.
per acre in drills 3ft. apart, with
12in. between seeds; cover to
a depth of 2in.
That spacing allows scari-
fying of the young crop to
loosen the ground. The plants
soon spread and cover the sur-
face, smothering most weeds.
Turn stock into the crop just
before it flowers, but don’t
allow them to eat the plants
right down and injure the
crown. Two cuttings of green-
feed may be had, if the same
precaution is taken. The peas
make excellent hay; cut the
crop when the pods are fully
formed, but still green and
succulent. (Yields of 24 tons
of hay per acre are quite
common.) They also make
good ensilage.
For green-manure if sowing
in drills use about 151 b. per
acre, and if broadcasting, 1
bushel. The vines should be
ploughed-in when they come
into flower; if growth is
heavy, use a roller to flatten
the plants. It has been esti-
mated that 1511 b. of nitrogen
per acre is put into the soil
from a crop of peas yielding
94 tons per acre.
Peas and either Japanese-
millet or white-panicum sown
together have proved a good
grazing-ration for sheep and
cattle on the Darling Downs.
About 51b. per acre of each
seed is mixed, and sown
through the combine in the
usual way. After feeding-off,
the paddock may be closed, the
seed harvested when ripe, and
separated by careful grading.
When the crop is sown for
seed the drills should be 3ft.
apart and the seeds spaced 12in.
apart in the drills, using 101 b.
to 151 b. to the acre. When the
pods are ripe they may be
taken off with an ordinary
wheat-header.
Whatever purpose the peas,
are used for, the crop will
enrich the land ; even if only
the roots are left in the soil
valuable humus and nitrogen
will be added to it.
Winning Fleece
“Delaine”: This year’s
heaviest and most valuable
fleece at Horsham (Vic.) Legacy
Club’s annual show was
entered by Mrs. R. K. Mc-
Lennan, who breeds Merinos
at Charam. Fourteen months’
growth of wool, it weighed
3841 b., and even at this
season’s prices was worth
£8 11s. 84d.
Just to keep things in the
family, her son was a prize-
winner in the strong-wool
section.
Citrus Bugs
“North”: Three insects
which damage citrus-trees and
their fruit are the bronze
orange-bug, the larger-horned
citrus-bug and the green
vegetable-bug.
By sucking sap from them
the bronze orange-bug (Rhce-
cocoris sulciventris ) causes
twigs to wilt and die and
flowers and fruit to fall. Heavy
infestation may mean that an
orchard ceases to be a paying
proposition for two or three
years, or even longer.
The adult bug is about lin.
long, oval in shape and dark-
bronze in color. Eggs are laid
during the summer and hatch in
eight or nine days. The young
bugs spend the winter on the
leaves of their host, and with
warmer weather begin to feed
voraciously on the young
shoots. They reach full size in
November, though this species
produces only one generation
each year. When disturbed, the
insect ejects a fluid that can
hurt the eyes.
The larger-horned citrus-
bug ( Biprorulus hibax ) belongs
to the same family as the
bronze orange-bug. It is green
in color, about jin. long and
elongated oval in shape, and
may be distinguished by two
spikes or horns on the front of
its body. The bugs spend the
winter in the adult-stage,
clustered in leafy trees. Eggi
laying begins when warmer
weather comes, and four
generations are produced each
year. The bug feeds on growing
fruit, piercing the rind and
sucking the juices.
The green vegetable-bug
(Nczara viridula) attacks a
number of vegetables besides
citrus. It is green in color,
about fin. long and shaped
like the bronze orange-bug. It
sucks the juice from fruit at
all stages of growth.
All three pests can be con-
trolled by spraying with
D.D.T. at a strength of 0.2
per cent. The best months to
do this are September to
November.
Johnson-gross
“Fencer”: Johnson - grass
(Sorghum halepense ) has
never been called “Arabian
millet-grass” (B. 22/10/’5B),
but 50 years ago it was
erroneously known as “ever-
green millet.” A true sorghum,
native of Turkey and countries
bordering on the Eastern
Mediterranean, it received its
common name from Wm.
Johnson, who introduced it into
the United States.
The plant known as the
“grand millet of Arabia” is
Sorghum vulgare, and is largely
grown in the U.S., both for
greenfeed and grain. Called
doura, dhoura and various
other names, it is similar to the
sweet-sorghums grown in Aus-
tralia.
Johnson-grass is always good
fodder, whether grazed, cut and
fed green or made into hay.
Its great drawback is a per-
nicious habit of spreading by
means of underground
rhizomes, which makes it a pest
in cultivated land. Should
patches of the grass appear,
spray them with sodium-
chlorate at the rate of lib. to a
gallon of water, or T.C.A. at
141 b. to 2 gallons, plus a wetting
agent. Subsequent light spray-
ings may be needed to prevent
regrowth, but on no account try
to plough the grass out, because
the fleshy underground roots
will then be cut into pieces and
spread over a larger area than
before. Any portion of the
rhizomes will produce a new
plant.
In Queensland the sale of
Johnson-grass seed is pro-
hibited, and any seed that con-
tains a trace of the pest is
seized by the Agricultural
Department. However, for
graziers in the interior, where
there is little chance of the
grass spreading and becoming a
pest, it’s a valuable standby
during dry spells ; it will grow
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(11/12/’58)
In Queensland, the Peninsula and the north-west and
south-west areas should receive heavy rains in January, with
likelihood of flooding in the south-western rivers. Reason-
ably good rains may occur on the south-coast area and
Darling Downs, but patchy elsewhere. Heavy rains and wide-
spread flooding are likely in February and March.
Rainfall in.N.S.W. may be patchy during January, vary-
ing from light to moderate, although the coast and tablelands
and the n.-w. slopes and plains areas may receive moderate
to good rains. Good general rains are likely in February.
Good rains are indicated in the southern half of Vic-
toria during January, with flooding in the rivers in the
southern half of the State. Light to moderate patchy rains
are indicated in the Mallee and northern divisions. Heavy
general rains may be expected in February.
Moderate rains are indicated in the agricultural areas of
South Australia during January, although rainfall may be
poor elsewhere. Moderate to heavy rains are likely in the
agricultural areas and n.-w. interior during February,
although light elsewhere. Seasonal rains should begin in the
agricultural areas during May.
In Western Australia the Kimberleys may receive light
to moderate rains during January, although rainfall may be
poor elsewhere. Rainfall is likely to be poor in much of the
State during February, apart from reasonably good rains
in the North Kimberleys.
LENNOX WALKER.


on poor land, and once estab-
lished will stand adverse
weather-conditions.
As “Wilco” says, there’s a
danger of prussic-acid poison-
ing when feeding the plant, but
this occurs with all the sor-
ghums to some degree. The
remedy is to allow the crop to
come into head before feeding,
as at that stage it is quite safe.
Never turn cattle into the field
when they are hungry; and
don’t leave them there long
"until they become used to it.
Lucerne on the S.-w.
Slopes
“Pat O’Day”: In the form
of increased carrying-capacity
and lowered costs of produc-
tion of wool and meat, we of
the slopes and plains districts
and western-division area of
N.S.W. have been getting good
dividends from pasture-
improvement.
Lucerne does best on the
south-west slopes and in the
Riverina when sown without
a cover-crop of wheat or oats.
The owner of a practically
managed sheep - and - cattle
property near Gundagai sug-
gests sowing 81b. of lucerne
to the acre. The method he
adopts is to sow .across the
paddock, then down its length
in criss-cross fashion, never too
wide apart but conforming to
the breadth of the lucerne-
sowing machine pulled behind
a tractor.
Among the hills around
Tumblong, 10 miles from
Gundagai, there-are expanses
of flat paddock and also wide
strips of valley. Water is
found here at 12ft. down —
which is ideal for lucerne in
every respect. One grazier
whose property consists mainly
of hill-country is growing
lucerne on every bit of level
land and has even fenced-oft
the long, narrow valleys and
made them into new lucerne-
paddocks, too. If the good
season continues he hopes to
run as many as seven sheep an
acre on these lucerne-flats
without irrigation a phe-
nomenal number, but not be-
yond reason in the circum-
stances.
Superphosphate applied each
year at the rate of lcwt. an
acre in the autumn or early
winter will increase the
carrying-capacity of land in
these districts by 100 to 150
per cent., even where the
annual rainfall is as low as
18in., and will improve the
quality of the feed accord-
ingly.
The south-west slopes, with
average rainfall of 26in., have
everything in their favor as
regards climate. In these parts
of the State lucerne is one of
the best pasture-plants to sow.
Paddocks may be heavily
stocked in the spring, and up
to two sheep an acre have been
carried in “lucerne country”
even in a lean winter. The
stands should be renovated and
topdressed with lcwt. of
super, or fertiliser either every
year or every second year in
late July or August.
Some farmers in the
Riverina and on the south-
west slopes find it worth
“Go on! Hop it!”
while, when their farms are
about to be turned over to
grazing, to put old wheat-
paddocks under lucerne.
Wimmera rye-grass and lucerne
are sown with the last crop of
wheat to be grown ; the land is
then turned over to grazing
for five or six years.
Better results may be
obtained in other areas by sow-
ing lucerne and other grasses
(including Wimmera-rye) on
fallowed land without wheat.
In a dry season wheat robs the
grass and lucerne of moisture,
and the result is spindly
plants, many of which do not
survive the hot summer
weather. The mixture generally
used is lib. of Wimmera-rye
and 21b. of lucerne. The country
is sweetened by cultivation.
This method is much better
than allowing the old culti-
vation simply to revert to
barley-grass, herbage and
weeds.
On the slopes and eastern
Riverina, too, many areas of
ploughable spear-grass coun-
try are being converted into
valuable grazing - paddocks,
free of “seedy” grasses, by
cultivation and planting of
lucerne in the deeper soils.
Lucerne grown on average
wheat-country which is reason-
ably deep has proved beyond
doubt . that it is one of the
hardiest and best pasture-
plants for comparatively dry
localities, as well as for cold
ones like the slopes. In dry
periods, when the natural pas-
tures have been practically
useless, large areas of lucerne
on typical wheat-country have
carried up to two sheep to the
acre.
Urea as Fertiliser
and Spray
“Billjim”: Discussing the
use of urea for orchards in
Victoria, research-officer Paul
Baxter says that it has ad-
vantages as a soil-dressing,
being highly concentrated and
soluble, with only one-third
the acidity of an equivalent
amount of sulphate-of-
ammonia, yet not easily
leached from the soil.
As a spray for apple-trees,
he says, its nitrogen is ab-
sorbed by the leaves and may
increase their chlorophyll-
content, where trees are previ-
ously deficient in nitrogen.
Such sprays should contain
51b. to 71b. of urea to lOOgal.
of water, with a wetting-agent
added.
Leaf-sprays are good for
supplementing soil - dressings,
particularly when spring rains
leach out nitrogen fertilisers or
dry conditions hamper the
tree’s proper uptake.
Baxter stresses the fact that,
for citrus, care must be taken
to use, as a leaf-spray, only
those brands of urea guaran-
teed to contain no more than
0.4 per cent, biuret, and, for
soil-applications, not more
than 0.8 per cent.
In the U.S.A. and England
leaf-sprays have greatly boosted
fruit-set and yield, and are
comparable for efficacy to
soil-dressings of nitrogen ferti-
lisers. Three sprays are
normally used overseas, one
before flowering and the others
after petal-fall. These can
conveniently be mixed with
routine pest-control sprays, as
urea is compatible with all
common spray-materials.
Tests made on similar lines
in Victoria during the last four
years have had variable
results, but have been encour-
aging enough to arouse the
interest of many fruitgrowers.
Litchi-nut
“Gidyea”: A native of
China and the East Indies, the
litchi-tree does well in northern
N.S.W. and southern Queens-
land. It grows as high as 20ft.,
and is highly ornamental, need-
ing little pruning beyond
that necessary to keep a clean
stem for a few feet from the
ground, and a well-balanced
head.
A rich, deep loam suits it
best. Trees should be planted
20ft. apart each way. Seedling
plants start bearing when
about eight years old, but air-
layered trees will produce fruit
in three years.
The fruit consists of a thin,
brittle shell in diameter,
covered with wartlike pro-
tuberances, and turning red
when ripe. Inside this shell is
one shiny, bro w n seed
surrounding a jelly-like pulp,
which, when fresh, is white and
almost transparent and has a
delicious flavor. After the
fruit has been gathered some
time, the pulp shrivels and
turns brown, but retains its
flavor.
The fruit is a great favorite
with the Chinese, and until
War II large quantities of
dried litchis used to be
imported into Australia for the
Oriental population.


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Copy of Ghosts at Willington,
author unknown. —6775.
Fifteen copies of the* Cathedral
Psalter, any condition. —6776.
Information Sought
How many times did Fred Henne-
berry and Ron Richards fight ?
Ten in all. On Jan. 16, 1933, in
Sydney, they drew over 12 rounds;
Mar. 20, 1933, Sydney, Richards
won on foul in 13th round; June 5,
1933, Sydney, Henneberry k.o.’d
Richards in 10th round; May 26,
1934, Brisbane, Henneberry won in
15 rounds; Aug. 25, 1934, Brisbane,
Richards won on foul in fourth
round; Nov. 10, 1934, Brisbane,
Henneberry in 15 rounds; Dec. 21,
1936, Sydney, Richards k.o.’d
Henneberry in 10th round; Feb. 26,
1940, Sydney, Richards won on
foul in 11th round; Dec. 16, 1940,
Sydney, Richards won on foul in
12th round; Nov. 27, 1941 (Henne-
berry’s last fight), Sydney, Richards-
won on foul in 13th round.
* * * *
Why are operas performed in
Australia not sung in English ?
The stock excuses for non-
translation are (1) that the Italian
language is more suited for singing
than is English, (2) that the Italian
singers usually imported for such
occasions can do themselves better
justice in their own tongue than
an alien one, and (3) that such
translations as are available are
very poor. This refers to German
and French operas as well as
Italian. When German operas are
performed by Germans, it is
explained (the other excuses being
unavailable) that it would be sacri-
lege to sing them in any other
tongue.
* * * *
What is the story of the “Die-
hards” in English politics towards
the end of 1918 ?
The nickname became current
when Lloyd George’s Coalition
Government began to show signs
of internal dissension. Many Con-
servatives wished to return to the
original party system. The pro-
posal to set-up an Irish Free State
with a Parliament in Dublin revived
many old controversies, and the
extreme section among the Con-
servatives became more urgent in
its demands for separation. At first
the leaders in this movement were
few in number and small in
influence, and they were called Die-
hards almost in derision. But
gradually their influence increased
until at an important party meeting
they found themselves to be in a
majority of nearly three to one.
The Coalition Government ceased
to exist, and Lloyd George was
succeeded in the Premiership by
Bonar Law.
* * * *
How to treat muscle cramps con-
tracted while swimming ?
These usually affect the muscles
in the back of the upper leg, the
calf of the lower leg and the foot.
If the cramp is in the calf of the
leg, seize the cramped muscle with
thumbs and fingers of both hands.
Squeeze the muscle with both hands
as though trying to force the thumb
and finger of one hand through to
meet those of the other. This
generally relieves the cramp at once,
and it rarely returns. For toe
cramp, apply pressure on the nerve
which lies in the arch of the foot
on the inside edge about .a third
of the way from heel to toe. Find
this spot so that if you ever need
to do so you can locate it quickly.
Press the place with your thumbs,
sliding them towards the great toe.
In any case of cramp, get ashore
as quickly as possible; proceed
with massage if the pain continues.
• * m *
(1) What color tie should the best
man at a wedding wear with a
dinner-suit ? (2) Duties of the best
man ?
(1) A dress-suit with a white tie
should be worn. (2) The best man
should be a bachelor, although a
married man may act in this
capacity. He should either accom-
pany the bridegroom to the church
or meet him there. He should
stand at the right hand of the bride-
groom during the ceremony, a little
to the rear, and render him such
“A little of the top and sides, but lay of the beard!"
services as taking his hat and hand-
ing it back at the end of the service.
If is usual for him to sign the
legister, and he should pay all fees
to the officiating minister, the
organist and the verger on behalf
of the bridegroom, either before or
after the ceremony. He should con-
duct the chief bridesmaid, on his
left arm, to the vestry after the
service, and be present at tl\e door
of the church, together with the
chief bridesmaid, to see the bride
and bridegroom away.
* * * *
A few details abc/ut Richard
Goldsbrough, founder of Golds-
brough and Co. ?
Richard Goldsbrough was born
at Shipley (Yorkshire) in 1821, and
was apprenticed to a wool-stapling
firm in Bradford. He started on a
small scale as a wool-merchant in
1842, became interested in Australia
as a wool-producing country and in
1847 migrated to Adelaide and then
to Melbourne, starting business at
the latter place in 1848. The
remarkable wool-clips of 1850 and
1851 enabled him to improve his
position in spite of excitement
engendered by the gold discoveries,
hnd in 1853 he established a stock-
and-station business with Row and
Kirk as partners. He bought
stations in the Riverina, but
deciding after four years to confine
himself to woolbroking, he steadily
developed that business until, in
1881, by amalgamation with another
firm, he was able to found the
house of R. Goldsbrough and Co.
wdth a capital of £3m. He died
on April 8, 1886; after his death
Goldsbrough and Co. absorbed the
well-known firm of Mort and Co.
and eventually became, as Golds-
brough, Mort and Co., Ltd., one of
the greatest wool businesses in the
world.
Brief Answers
D.M.O. (Bris.): No clue to
such a society in Sydney and
N.S.W. The subject is a very simple
one, and is adequately explained in
most handbooks on gardening.
Talk to friends or neighbors who
are known to be good gardeners.
F.B.K.: (1) You surely mean
Australian Fixed Trusts Pty., Ltd.,
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney. (2)
Write Genealogical Society, Lanark
House, Phillip Street, Sydney....
D. 1.5.: There are no formalities
connected with such a business.
Get in touch with the Chief Secre-
tary’s Department, Brisbane, for
information on the sale of goods
under a registered name, and say
whether you intend to work as a
travelling business such as that
carried-on by hawkers, who are
controlled by law, or whether you
wish to work from your own
address. Your chief obstacle is in
the importing of goods from
America or any other country, for
which you will require import-
licences and dollar- or non-sterling
exchange. Restrictions are severe
on these items. Unable to advise
on the financial aspects of your
proposition: up to you to attract
business by advertising or circular-
ising, and by offering something
wanted by the public. Remember
that competition from the large
chain-stores and established city
businesses is very keenly directed to
country customers, who are well-
catered for these days... .“Pal” :
(1) As a general rule dairy-cattle
have what are termed “sheety”
hides —thin, lacking in density and
light of weight. In the case of
dairy-bulls the hide tends to be
uneven in thickness. Hides from
beef-cattle, particularly the Here-
ford, are much preferred. (2) Horse-
hides make good leather, since
they’re of fine texture: the best
razor-strops are made from horse-
hide. All hides are sold on a
weight basis... .A.M.McC.: Not
quite clear what you’re after.
Would you clarify your request?
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
8.N.: Climax overstated
K.M.F.: Your chief fault is the
handling of dialogue. Each charac-
ter must be a separate identity
S.D.: Matter-of-fact metre...
V.L.: Well, it must be admitted
that Christmas mails are heavy, but
that’s hardly an excuse for “The
Postman’s Lot Is Not a Happy
One” C.J.: Faint murmurings
of Kendall G.L.L.: Hastily
arranged and half-baked, like a
fruit-cake taken out of the oven
an hour too early... .F.C.: Your
golfer not up to scratch... .J.W.:
No room for parodies of that type.
T.M.: You speak for
thousands:—
As one who gets about a bit to races and
to trots
I sometimes stay at country pubs, some
good, some not so hot
But there’s a most obnoxious fault in
nearly every one
Which really makes me go to town when
grizzling’s to be done
I refer to that infuriating bedroom lousy
light
Stuck up on the ceiling there as high
as any kite
When you want to read the paper after
settling down to rest
You can’t decipher words although
you’re eyesight’s of the best
And when at last you feel like sleep
and here’s my favorite snitch
Y'ou have to clamber out of bed to find
the blasted switch . . .
. ...G.J.F.: The vital portion of
“Sputniks”:
They checked off thirty-thousand parts
from one enormous list,
They pressed a button straight away,
and so the monster hissed,
And soared away towards the moon at
awful speed—and missed.


to the rousies. Then Dutchy's
high, clear voice came on:
Send her down a little bit harder,
dear old Hughie, do,
Send her down a little bit harder,
and we’ll love you.
Send her down for a week or two,
all the rousies will stick like glue.
Just a little harder, dear old
Hughie, do.
The tune was from the
chorus of a London music-hall
song which had been very
popular in Sydney a year
before, “Swing me just a little
bit higher, Obadiah, do.” When
Dutchy finished, the rousies
applauded vigorously, and the
shearers cursed him cheerfully.
Then there was a discussion on
“Hughie.” None of the
shearers had heard of him
before, so maybe Dutchy
started something.
That night the rain came
down in earnest, and it soon
became obvious there would
be no more shearing for at least
a week. Many of the men wel-
comed the chance of a spell,
and went off to Brewarrina,
Tarcoon and Gongolgon. The
rest of us played cards, yarned
and slept till we were bored
stiff.
Then Dutchy suggested that
I try to build a song round
“Hughie.” Having secret ambi-
tions of becoming a second
Henry Lawson, I started-off
with confidence (and I had
plenty when I was 19). I’ve
often wondered if any writer
had as many offsiders as I
did when writing “Hughie.'’
There were over 50 men still in
the hut, and I think half of
them had one or more lines
he thought would be just the
thing.
Unfortunately most of the
suggestions were of the lurid
variety. I was determined to
keep it clean, so was forced
to reject them, often against a
lot of opposition. I finally
wrote four verses, which, with
Dutchy’s chorus, became very
popular round the western
sheds, where it was known as
the “Rouseabout’s Prayer.” 1
often thought of “sending it
to The Bully,” but never got
round to it.
'T'he last sheep to be shorn
were the rams and lambs.
To the joy of most of us the
rams were blade-shorn. Great,
hulking brutes they were,
wrinkled like concertinas and
twice as heavy as the Merinos.
Six of the blade-men tackled
them, and they were paid on
the average of what they had
earned on the ordinary sheep
per day. They had to shear
carefully to avoid cutting them.
The rams were bad-tempered
and struggled and kicked all
the time. I was pleased to miss
them ; but Steve Fields knew
how to deal with a cranky ram.
He never smoked, but was a
constant tobacco-chewer. When
a ram played-up he would
prise open its jaws and squirt
a gob Of tobacco-juice into its
mouth. Whether it acted like
morphia, or the ram just liked
it, I wouldn’t know, but it was
effective. The ram was
always quietened, and made no
further protest.
Steve Fields’s reminiscences
would have been worth a lot to
any historian. He had a great
memory, and was much above
the average in education and
intelligence. He mentioned that
he had been born in England,
and spoke of fox-hunting as
though he knew quite a lot
about it. We reckoned he must
be a remittance-man, of
whom there were many at that
time in the west. He was
certainly a gentleman, and I
don’t mean the top-hatted
variety?
The last sheep was shorn,
the bell rang, the whistle
blew and Charlton was cut-out.
Inside an hour the shed was
deserted, and men on horses,
in sulkies, on bicycles and on
foot were making for homes,
their next shed or the nearest
pub.
Dutchy and I were making
for Calga, 200 miles east of
Charlton. Gongolgon that
night, and Yarraman (or, as it
was always spoken of, “Dick-
son’s on the Mara”) the next
night. Here we got two lots of
bad news. First was that
Hector La Traille, the boss of
the poison camp, had been
thrown from his horse and
killed. It was a shock, for we
had both got on well with him
and liked him.
We had little time for regrets,
however, for the next news
directly concerned us. There
had been heavy rain from
Dubbo to Nyngan, and the
Bogan, Duck, Mara, Mac-
quarie and Marthaguy were in
flood. As the Bogan and Duck
rivers were behind us, we had
no option but to go forward.
A friendly boundary-rider said
we had a chance of getting
through if we travelled fast.
Also he advised us to follow
a wire-netting fence, which
would cut some miles olf the
journey. So we crossed the
Mara, found the fence, and
followed it. When*we tired,
we camped and boiled the billy.
The sky was clear, with the
stars blazing, and we went to
sleep half-convinced that the
men at Yarraman had been
pulling our legs.
Just at daylight I felt myself
getting wet, and sat up. The
next minute I was dragging
Dutchy to his feet. There was
water all around us, and it
flowed gently, with an occa-
sional gurgle as it found the
cracks in the ground.
{To be continued next week )
THE HOLLIDAYS
"We see the Taj Mahal he says, So what?’ We see the Tower of Pisa—he says , ‘So what?’ We see
the Sistine Chapel—he says, So what?’ ... and now the Colosseum ..."


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
It was a week of Christmas parties,
the first being the Royal Commonwealth
Society’s celebrations held in their rooms,
bright with flags, balloons, tinsel and
chatter, and oblivious to the darkening
and rainy Bligh Street outside. The
society’s two flags (the Union Jack and
the Australian flag) were unfurled from
flagpoles on the upstairs balcony, over-
hanging the entrance. This historic build-
ing seems reluctant to push into line with
the newer buildings which cannot afford
to waste an inch, and stands back a
little from the street and, sadly it seems,
now faces a car-parking allotment in
place of the old Union Club, which was
demolished this year.
There was a large gathering on the
first-floor, and, the whole of the building
being open for members and their guests,
a changing overflow circulated from floor
to floor, meeting and greeting one
another.
Noted in the crush: Lady Rosenthal,
wearing a hat on which the color of gold
gleamed and twinkled and, with her,
Mrs. Alex Morgan in a midnight-shade,
with white ; Miss Daphne Chun, charm-
ing with flowers in her hair, and Mrs.
Garnet Halloran, in a toque of pink
blossoms. Miss Denison-Miller wore
rose-patterned silk with a black, winged
hat; and black with pearls was the
choice of Miss Margaret Massy-Westropp
and Mrs. R. W. Gloster, who, with her
husband and General and Mrs. G. P.
Meredith, were seated by the open
balcony-door in the cool, damp air.
☆ ☆ ☆
Native Christmas-bells decorated the
bar in the dress-circle foyer of the
Tivoli Theatre for the party given by
the Tiv. circuit to greet Miss Winifred
Atwell, here again for another Sydney
season. The richness of Miss Atwell’s
sophisticated white gown, on which a
gilt pattern danced, could have been
inspired by the sparkle of the white-and-
gold Christmas-beetles now appearing
in numbers in Sydney’s treed suburbs.
Mrs. D. N. Martin, wearing a small
white hat with a white-and-Wedgwood
dress, stood at the top of the foyer steps
and was the centre of a changing circle of
friends. Some of the lasses from the Tiv.
ballet moved among the guests, and their
report is that Miss Atwell is one of the
most sympathetic (and least temperamen-
tal) of the “big names” —interested in
everyone and everything, back-stage and
on-stage.
& ☆ ☆
The French flowers on Mrs. Bruce
Macfarlan’s hat moved gaily among the
guests as she greeted them at a Christmas
party arranged by her husband, the presi-
dent, on behalf of the Musica Viva
Society at King’s Cross. Dr. Miroslav
Zitko, of Prague, representing the Czech
Philharmonic Orchestra, was guest-of-
honor. Musica Viva has a Sydney mem-
bership of 1053, and it is the ambition
of the members’-committee president,
Mrs. Hope Gibson (who arranges home-
recitals of chamber-music), to have 2000
members.
☆ ☆ ☆
The ceremonial Red Cross V.A.D.
Annual Church Parade is the Sunday
before Christmas at the Garrison Church,
via the famous, or infamous, cut-throat
alley of colonial days, Argyle Cut.
Before that is their annual Christmas-
dinner ritual, “the Ceremony of the
Lighting of the Candles.” Last Tuesday,
in the darkened drill hall at Victoria
Barracks, little flames flickered into life
until columns of candles burned steadily
along the exact centres of the long tables
placed end -to - end to accommodate
Sydney's 350 Voluntary Aids.
Miss Margaret Gray, here pictured,
is commandant of the Turramurra
Detachment, which provided the hall’s
red, white and blue floral decorations.
This patriotic color-combination also
represented the color of the uniform
(blue hydrangeas) and the Red Cross
(Christmas - bush and gardenias) the
society’s emblem is, of course, the flag
of Switzerland, home of its founder, with
colors reversed.
Eager young V.A.s and smiling, older
members, some with badges for years of
war-service, shared the cameraderie of
those who do hospital work (often
menial) without any reward except that
of “doing the job.” The Queen’s brooch
is earned by 12 years’ service, with a
bar for each additional five years. Noted
were Senior Section Leader Miss P.
Tawyer (brooch and bar) and V.A.s Miss
E. Watson (brooch and two bars) and
Mrs. I. Hare, Mrs. E. Williams and Miss
G. Cotty (all with brooch and bar).
The week came to a rather memorable
close with the party held by The Aisling
Society of Sydney at the Irish National
Association Cultural Centre —the party
was set for 5.30 to 8.30 p.m., but soon
showed signs of going on long into the
night. The toast was “Ireland at home
and abroad,” and there was an Irish harp
plus Irish singing, including “A Hundred
Thousand Welcomes” and “God Save
Ireland Sang the Heroes” —and, of course,
fish and fowl and beer and whisky
galore, plus all the trimmings, including
marzipanned fruit-cake in generous slabs,
with champagne. Anyone from Ireland
(or of Irish descent) who hasn’t joined
the society is missing out. In fact, since
Irish generosity is no furphy, a very little
drop of Irish blood might be sufficient
qualification.
The Irish Association has its own build-
ing (faced with large green tiles), and on
the ground-floor groups of children
danced a three-hand Irish reel to “The
Fairy Reel” on the fiddle —pupils of Miss
Helen Conway, 1957 winner of N.S.W.
Irish dancing. Upstairs in the Ulster
Room, Miss Mary M. Hegarty, blue roses
on her dress and silvery-grey ones on
her hat, received the guests ; her sham-
rock-brooch, a present from Dublin, is
of Connemara marble set in marcasite.
The gladioli presented by Miss Hegarty
to the president’s wife, Mrs. James A.
Meagher, were the same color as this
marble, which is a beautiful veined-
yellow.
The president and Mrs. Meagher came
from 3O years ago —he once
belonged to the Abbey Theatre group.
The Rev. Father N. McNally, whose
speaking voice is music, announced the
programme, which was interspersed with
conversation periods. “Dark Rosaleen”
—a pseudonym for Ireland itself —sung
by Miss. Mary Blake (Mrs. S. Lanigan-
O’Keefe) was something to remember;
and hauntingly beautiful was the un-
accompanied singing of Miss Margaret
Wortley (Mrs. Noel Nickson), who
trained in Dublin.
Noted among the guests were partners-
in-law Miss Veronica and Mr. Vincent
Pike, brother and sister solicitors. Miss
Pike wore turquoise-blue and south-of-
France “bubble” lustre-glass. Mrs. G. J.
O’Sullivan was in Kelly-green; Miss
Margaret Ryan wore a rose-patterned
dress and a tiny hat of pale satin heavily
encrusted with gold ; Mrs. L. R. Ward
also wore a rose-pattern. The president
and Mr. Denis Kevans, Mr. W. Baggott
and many others saw to it that no one
was omitted, even for a moment, from
full enjoyment of the party and the
warmth of The Aisling Society.
CANBERRA
When writers meet, conversation is
stimulating, especially when the meeting
is to celebrate publication of a book
as fascinating as Span, an anthology of
Australian and Asian short-stories and
verse. The drawing-room of University
House was the setting for a late-afternoon


party given by the Canberra Fellowship
of Australian Writers for the occasion.
More than 80 writers from 12 countries
have helped to make Span (reviewed in
this week’s “Red Page”), a book of
unusual interest. They include Ceylon’s
Prime Minister, S. W. Bandaranaike,
who contributes a short thriller ; authors
from Burma, India, Indonesia, Thailand
and Vietnam also take their place in
the book. Among Australian writers are
Dame Mary Gilmore, Alan Marshall,
Judith Wright and Roland Robinson.
Tom Inglis Moore, whose poem “Align
Your Act” is in the book, was among
the guests at the party, also Professor
Manning Clark, just back from a
Fellowship-sponsored trip to Russia, with
some interesting things to say about
Russian writing ; Mrs. L. Rees, a mem-
ber of the Fellowship board ; and Miss
Patricia Croft, who prepared biographical
notes on the contributors.
Span was published by Cheshire for
the Canberra Fellowship, and, judging
by the number of copies editor Lionel
Wigmore autographed at the party, many
will find their way into Christmas parcels.
MELBOURNE
The postman’s shrill whistle at the
gate ; the hurly - burly of good - natured
crowds in the shops ; the gaily-decorated
streets and trees ; youthful voices heard
in the old but ever-lovely carols ; the
excitement of children waiting for their
gifts ; the Cribs in the churches in which
lies the Christ Child, the Mother bending
over her Son, with St. Joseph standing
by on guard—this is Christmas. A truly
blessed day, and from this Letter go
wishes to all for a happy, peaceful
Christmas and that the New Year will
bring joy and prosperity.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Christmas-party given for 350
guests by the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs. F. W. Thomas)
in the banqueting hall of the Town Hall
gained in glamor from the presence of
Sabrina, Bunty Turner (“My Fair Lady”),
Rowena Jackson, Philip Chatfield and
other members of the Royal Ballet com-
pany. As usual the decorations were
superb. There was a gaily - lighted
Christmas-tree and Santa Claus with a
sackful of presents ; balloons and star-
clusters hung from the ceiling ; and one
end of the hall was a fern-gully and
tinkling waterfall, with banks of deep-
pink hydrangeas arranged at each side.
Mrs. Thomas wore a slim black frock
of shimmering faille with the square
neckline edged with a band of scalloping.
The Premier was with Mrs. Bolte, she
wearing a frock of palest-pink guipure-
lace trimmed with chiffon in a deep
rose-pink.
Among the guests were Margot Evans,
whose bell-skirted frock was of blue and
silver lame ; Sue Hardy, wearing a baby-
doll frock of white chiffon; Marion
Gengoult Smith, in turquoise - blue
chiffons; Virginia Finlay, wearing a
princess-line frock of black-and-white
floral silk; Virginia Campbell, her
frock of candy-pink-and-white patterned-
organza ; Cr. and Mrs. Douglas Cox,
Cr. Oliver J. Nilsen ; Mr. and Mrs. John
Inkster, Mr. and Mrs. Vic. Nilsen, Mr.
and Mrs. W. K. Burnside, Cr. and Mrs.
Leo Curtis and their daughter Ann, and
Cr. and Mrs. W. J. Kilpatrick and their
daughter Roslyn, her pretty frock being
of white shirred chiffon with pink roses
scattered over the skirt.
Noel, only daughter of Mrs. Charles
F. Davidson, of Toorak, and the late
Mr. Davidson, will be married at St.
John’s Church, Toorak, on January 28
to Alan Murray, youngest son of Mrs.
Alan Calvert, of Kornong, Nerr in Nerrin,
and the late Mr. Calvert. An ex-pupil of
St. Catherine’s, Noel began law-studies
at the University two years ago after
returning from a trip overseas with her
mother and brother. These she will now
abandon, and after the marriage she and
her husband will live on the land. Alan
was educated at Geelong Grammar.
Noel’s bridesmaids will be Sandra
McDonald, Debra Tapp, Anne Mackin-
non and Alan’s niece, Sue Calvert. John
Warlow photo.
Garlands of colorful fairylights in the
garden were festive notes at the
Christmas cocktail-party held at the
R.A.A.F. headquarters officers’ mess in
St. Kilda Road. An attractive Christmas-
tree was set in the foyer of the mess,
and in the reception-rooms were bowls
of scarlet and pink gladioli, Christmas-
lilies and yellow lilies. The 300 guests
were welcomed by the president of the
mess-committee, Group-Captain A. D. J.
Garrisson, and Mrs. Garrisson. The
latter’s sapphire-blue silk frock, cut on
Empire-lines and featuring a sheath-skirt,
was worn with a small white hat. Air-
Vice-Marshal A. L. Walters was accom-
panied by Mrs. Walters, who was smart
in a black faille coat-frock, which had
a bouffant skirt, and which was worn
with a small hat trimmed with white
ostrich-feathers. Lady Wells, who was
with Sy" Henry, wore over a cream satin
frock spotted in black, a black faille
coat.
Other guests were Air-Vice-Marshal
H. G. Acton and Mrs. Acton (her choice
a frock of pervenche-blue faille); Lieut.-
General A. R. Garrett and his wife (she
in azure-blue velvet); Sir Richard and
Lady Williams (her frock of black
chiffon featured a draped skirt); Air-
Marshal Sir George Jones and Lady
Jones ; Air-Vice-Marshal E. Hewitt and
Mrs. Hewitt; Air-Vice-Marshal and
Mrs. I. McLachlan ; Sir William and
Lady Bridgeford (she wearing a smart
frock of beech-brown wool with a
picture-hat in matching tones of tulle and
velvet); Squadron-Leader Robert Morne-
ment and his fiancee, Kath McCormack;
Mr. and Mrs. Bert Chadwick ; the
Secretary for Air, Mr. A. B. McFarlane,
and Mrs. McFarlane ; and Mrs. H. A. H.
Pickering.
☆ ☆ ☆
Robert Helpmann received a great
ovation at the conclusion of the ballet
“The Rake’s Progress,’’ in which he
danced the starring role ; and Anya
Linden and David Blair took many
curtain-calls after they had danced the
pas de deux from “Don Quixote.” In
the large first-night audience were Sir
Frank and Lady Tait, who were accom-
panied by their daughters Anne and Sally,
and Bunty Turner, whose off-shoulder
frock was of mint-green taffeta. Inci-
dentally, Mrs. Dorothy Gitsham is
making a collection of frocks for Bunty
—who will star in “My Fair Lady” and
who will wear them to many functions.
Mrs. Geoffrey Tolson wore deep-sea-
blue laces, Mrs. Hudson Ralph a pale-
blue lace with a bouffant organdie skirt,
and Mrs. F. H. Wright a bright rose-
pink taffeta theatre-coat over a black
frock. Mrs. John Pacini had her school-
girl daughter Merrin with her. With Mrs.
Dermot Connelly was her daughter Sue.
Another family-party comprised Mr. and
Mrs. Charles Lane and their daughters
Penny and Prue.
☆ ☆ ☆
About 70 members of the R.A.A.F.
Women’s Association met at the Austra-
lian-American Centre at an afternoon-tea
party to bid au revoir to Lady Scherger,
their Federal patroness. Lady Scherger,
who has been very active in the work
of the association since its inauguration,
will leave next month for Canberra with
her husband, Air-Marshal Sir Frederick
Scherger, Chief of Air Staff. Decora-
tions included a silver candelabra hold-
ing red candles, and a snow-scene. Mrs.
E. C. Wackett, Federal president, pre-
sented Lady Scherger with a sheath of
flowers containing Christmas decorations
and a driftwood centrepiece which was
made by one of the members. The guest-
of-honor was welcomed by Lady
Williams, Mrs. A. L. Walters and Mrs.
H. G. Acton (all vice-presidents) and Mrs.
R. D. Austin, acting hon. secretary.
Among the 70 members present were
branch members from Laverton, Point
Cook and Williamstown.


looked at me. She leant against
the wall and looked at me.
She seemed suddenly very old,
very tired.
“Punjabi voices,” she said.
“Punjabi faces. There is
nothing of my people in my
children here.”
I wanted to be a Punjabi
like my father —I always had
—but I wanted to please grand-
mother, and 1 would have liked
to be like her and like Ama,
too. Suddenly I had a thought.
“Mirbani,” I said.
Mirbani is a Hindi word.
There is no word in Punjabi
like it and there is none in
English unless it is grace, the
state of grace, or graciousness.
It is a word that means all
those things, and something
more.
“What, child? What?”
“That is you, nani,” I said.
“Mirbani.”
Grandmother began to
laugh. “I was wrong,” she i
said. “There is the soul of the
Brahmin in thee. Thou
knowest how to flatter and to
please. Thou knowest the
words that should be true.”.
Che held me to her and
talked to me, or to her-
self, or to God.
“My daughter threw away
the Hindu in her, but she has
paid for that. Her first-born,
her son of sons, is dead. But
this one, little Lai, must live.
There has to be an end to
punishment. Even God can-
not be always cruel. This one
has to live.”
Then, for the first time, I
really knew how very sick Lai
was. Later that day, I knew it
again. The doctor had gone.
Father and Uncle Seyed were
talking on the veranda.
“The doctor is a good man,”
I heard father say, “kind. But
he says tomorrow we will
know. Lai must be better in
the morning, or Lai will die.”
“He is a good man,” said
Uncle Seyed, “but he is only
a man. Lai will get well. Allah
is kind. Remember. Remem-
ber that first year, the black
year, the drought and the sheep
dying —we prayed to Him
then, and he helped us. And
when first I came to this
country, and knew no one,
how I prayed that I might find
my friend and how my path
led, somehow, here! We must
pray now. You must have
faith.”
“The first son died,” said
father. “I cannot hope, I dare
not hope I cannot pray, I
cannot be weak. I have to be
strong, to bear this one’s
going.”
“I will pray,” said Uncle
Seyed. “I will pray all night.”
I 1 was like father. I could
not pray either. Is it true, I
thought. Could Lai die? Allah
is good. Uncle Seyed is
always saying that Allah is
good. But Allah belongs to
the Punjab. He is a long way
from home and me and Lai.
I went into Ama’s garden,
her Indian world, and I looked
out through the squares in the
lattice at paddock and sky, at
the five hills that were our hills.
Ama gave them to each of us
“ W hat IS he? A bus-driver?”
when we were born. As soon
as she was well she carried
each new one, each Australian,
out through the garden with
its Indian jasmin and Kashmiri
roses and Himalayan violets
and out through the lattice-
gate where all the Australian
world was watching. She held
each of us up so that we
would see the hills and she told
them, and all the Gods that
were, that we had come.
“This is Nimmi,” she had
said when she held me.
“Nimmi whom the Gods must
love.”
“O love him! Love Lai!”
I cried out, whimpered and
prayed. “He’s little and gets
frightened. He thinks Kash-
mir is over the hills and ships
sail on the land. He doesn’t
know anything. Love him and
keep him safe. Keep him with
us, so I can teach him things.”
"Out that night, late, late,
JLf when morning should have
come, another came. Like a
snake, like a cobra, silent and
not to be seen, it came inside
our house; passed Uncle
Seyed with his prayer-mat, his
Koran and his strange droning
song, passed the room where
I was sleeping, passed
Rashida, passed the baby and
the cradle that father had
made, passed father and Ama
and their worried sleep . . .
It did not wake them. It was
not for them or for me or for
the others that it had come.
It was for Lai.
It went into his room, but
there was a woman there, her
eyes lidded, but her mind and
all of her waiting, as the
stranger knew. She was the
old enemy. She was the watch-
ing one. It was she who had
hated him in his rages of
famine and cholera, who had
fought to bar his way. And
even now, silent as he was,
and still as death, she knew
that he was there.
She flung aside the wet cloth
she had used to cool Lai’s
forehead. She stood up to him,
small, her sari glittering, and
suddenly she fell down by the
bed, as though the stranger
had beaten her. But she fell
only to kneel, and her hands
held Lai as though she would
not let him go.
“Rahm! Rahm! ” she
prayed. “Save this Thy reed
that is shaken by the wind.
Save this Thy son. Let him
not yet enter the house of clay
55
Outside, Uncle Seyed called
on Allah; the All-merciful, the
Compassionate . . .
Then—as grandmother, nani,
Mirbani explained it—the God
of the Brahmins looked on her
frailty and faith and the God
of the Moslems looked on his
stubborn praying son and the
two of them together, two
Gods in one, drove out the
stranger, out from the house,
the garden, the paddocks, over
the hills, and beyond our
world.
Uncle Seyed explained it
differently. “I told you,” he
said. “Didn't I tell you that
Allah would make him well
again?”
The doctor smiled, and it
seemed then that the whole
world smiled ; that spring was
really spring. Every day Lai
grew more like Lai, and life
in the house became what it
had always been. Father and
Uncle Seyed went working in
the paddocks. Ama fussed
over the house, and Grand-
mother Mirbani was a guest
again and not a nurse. She
sat with us, Rashida and me,
and talked of the old days,
the old ways. Wonderful
stories she told us, and Lai,
now he was allowed to walk,
followed her like a shadow —-
“Like my son,” she laughed.
Then the car came to take
her from us, to take her the
long way. We cried of course,
and she talked and talked to
stop us ; said she would send
us presents, messages in her
letters to Ama ; that she would
come back some day and we
would all laugh because we
had cried. But when she lifted
Lai up in her arms, her eyes
were tearful and she whispered
in Hindi: “Alas, I will never
see thee again.”
She put him down quickly
and smiled at us.
T Tncle Seyed spoke. He spoke
in Hindi, a language he
disapproved of; it was the
greatest compliment he could
pay. “I thank thee,” he said,
“For the life of the little one
who is like my own, for thy
nursing, for . . . thy prayers.”
“Yes,” he said bravely. “For
thy prayers. I know that it
was thou who turned death
from him and I will thank thee
with ail my life. I will pray
Allah that He watch over thee
and bless thy days.”
“What words,” said Mirbani.
“What words! Thou art my
children’s friend, thou art my
son. There can be no talk of
thanks. But I do thank thee—
for thy prayers.”
“I will still eat meat though! ”
said Uncle Seyed.
Mirbani laughed. We all
laughed; longer than we
needed. It was to a sound like
laughter that Mirbani drove
away.


SHARK ATTACK
by V. M. Coppleson
This book by the well-known surgeon is the first ever published on shark
attacks. It is an excellent combination of the history of sharks and
absorbing stories of the experiences of fishermen, swimmers, surfers, skin-
divers and shipwreck survivors. Illustrated with many striking photographs.
32/6 (post 9d.)
Available from all booksellers and . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
All the Rivers Run
by NANCY CATO
Australian poet, Nancy Cato, has written a delightful
first novel set in Australia. It is like a water-colour.
18/9
LONDON
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
: MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
first railway-stop before Seymour, and
after passing through a bewildering
complexity of owners has settled down
under none less than Essington Lewis.
Avenel, which gives its name to the
railway-station after Seymour, was first
named by Henry Kent Hughes in 1838,
after his former property in England.
Seymour was to have taken-over the
name of the old crossing - place,
Mitchellstown; but Surveyor-General
Mitchell himself insisted on naming it
after the son of the 11th Duke of
Somerset.
All its events kaleidoscoped into a
single past, Seymour looks a pleasant,
sleepy little river town: traffic backing-
up for miles while the puntmen talked,
a four-horse-power (literally) mill
working only part of the year; a little
racecourse; Morison the smith, who
once used part of an old gun-barrel to
shoe a horse; the head of Morgan, the
bushranger, passing through in a box
under guard; the “lunatic van” kept
busy by old hatters and alcoholics on
the runs, such as the Wild Man of
Tallarook,
sporting long hair as well as the
normal long whiskers of the period.
He was eventually taken into custody,
as it was found he was using his
mountain solitude for the purpose of
producing home-made whisky.
Until 1914 Seymour avoided most
kinds of excitement; gold escorts went
through, but little gold was found in
the shire; Ned Kelly’s father had a
farm on Avenel, in the shire, but moved
on to Ned Kelly country to the north-
east, and Seymour was merely the place
from which the cannon sent from Mel-
bourne to settle the Glenrowan affair
was sent back as no longer required.
The town’s worst controversy, early
in this century, was between the new-
towners and old-towners, as in the
battle in which the Station Street (new-
town) traders wanted the post-office
transferred:—
The agitation was sufficient to
bring Mauger, the P.M.G. of the
Commonwealth itself, to look into
the problem in 1907. He was driven
around the town in a horse-drawn
conveyance on a tour of inspection,
accompanied by a posse of interested
etizens, who kept up a running fire
of argument all the way. On return
to Station Street a map was produced
and the rival parties stood around
the table, in the words of a con-
temporary scribe, “slangwanging
one another.” While a dozen or
more engaged in excited argument,
Postmaster-General Mauger stood on
one side, his face wearing a resigned
expression. Train-time was drawing
near, so the earnest debaters accom-
panied the Minister back to the
station still airing their various
opinions, and Mauger awaited the
train on the platform, surrounded by
heated controversy, which only
ceased when he got into the train.
But after 1914 Seymour, which from
early in the century had been popular
with the Army as a ground for
manoeuvres, achieved national import-
ance as a training-ground. In 1920
it was made “the chief military concen-
tration area in Victoria.” In World
War II Old Seymour Camp and new
Puckapunyal Camp saw tens of thous-
ands of servicemen passing through,
and Americans, also, were camped in
the district. Now Puckapunyal, an
Army township of 450 homes, is an
expanded school for national-service
training, and is used by the armored
school and Armored Corps, while Old
Seymour has the School of Tactics and
Administration, and the School of
Infantry. Nor have the large-scale arts
of peace been ignored: Ansett interests
have a knitwear factory there, and
another making upholstery moquettes.
The book is well illustrated with
plates of old photographs, but nothing
to show what Seymour looks like today,
with its “eleven garages and eight cafes
with their neon signs” on the Hume
Highway. The appendix has a biblio-
graphy, a few caustic corrections of
Frank Clune’s “The Kelly Hunters”;
vital statistics (the 1954 population was
11,596); a note on other Seymours in
Connecticut, Indiana, Texas and Wis-
consin, U.S., in South Africa and on
the west coast of Tasmania; a list of
Seymour businesses (it has five pubs,
three dry-cleaners, four electrical-goods
shops; nine grocers, two tailors, two
jewellers, one wine-saloon, one fish-
monger, two cycle-stores, etc., etc.); and
there is an index.
Queensland Anthology
A new writers’ group in Brisbane,
the Writers’ Guild of Queensland, is
calling for short-stories by Queensland
writers for an anthology it intends to
publish next year for the State’s cen-
tenary. Among writers who have
already contributed are Judith Wright,
R. S. Porteous, Clive Morton and E. A.
Gollschewsky. Verse and one-act plays
will also be published. MSS should
be addressed to R. Theodore, 53
Ellerslie Crescent, Taringa, Brisbane.
Arthur Mailey’s 10 for 66 and All
That (Phoenix Sports Books), with a
foreword by R. G. Menzies, is breezy
and light, with a certain amount of
cryptic comment on the game in
general. The title derives from Mailey’s
bowling-figures against Gloucestershire
in 1921, one of his vctims, clean-bowled
for 1, being the 18-year-old Wally
Hammond. The book, with Mailey’s
own illustrations, discusses a wide range
of cricketing subjects. One thing
intrigues—when a bowler gets such a
pasting as to finish as Mailey did, with
4-362 (when Victoria made a world-
record 1107 against N.S.W. in 1926-27),
why should he twice give himself even
worse figures, and make it 4-364?


An unsurpassed investment
guide and reference-
%e
99
f
M
Published by
21-
per sing/e
copy
A review of :
ECONOMIC, MARKET
and
FINANCIAL CONDITIONS,
COMPANY ACCOUNTS
and
OIL AND MINING ACTIVITIES
22/6
a year,
post free
The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” gives the most complete and comprehensive
analysis of company accounts, in addition to its mining comments and
economic forecasts. ' . ; *
It is thoroughly indexed on a continuous basis, and the pages are stitched
together for permanent reference.
Facilities are available for binding each twelve issues on an annual basis.
Subscribe now for the complete 1959 series by sending 22/6 to
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly/'
BOX 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
