

CENTURY I
THE FIELD
WITH A BATTERY THAT S
YEARS AHEAD
Century engineers, working closely with the greatest
hattery laboratories in U.S.A., bring you this marvel-
lous new homelighling Battery.
NEW IN EVERY DETAIL—WITH NEW TECHNIQUES
—NEW ’ CONSTRUCTION METHODS—NEW SUPER
PERFORMANCE.
LOOK AT THESE DYNAMIC FEATURES. NO OTHER DATTERY HAS THEM:
■ SILVIUM—the scientific additive
vhich KEEPS PLATES ACTIVE
WITH MAXIMUM EFFICIENCY;
PREVENTS GRID CORROSION.
ONLY CENTURY HOMELIGHT-
/NG BATTERIES CONTAIN
SILVIUM.
B TRANSPARENT POLYSTYRENE
CONTAINER . . . you can see
the acid level at a glance.
■ INBUILT GRAVITY BALL INDICA-
TORS . . . show state of chaiga
AT ALL TIMES. No more messy
hydrometer.
■ GLASS INSULATION —gives sus-
tained power during the BAT-
TERY'S ENTIRE LIFE.
BACKED BY A BULLET-PROOF
THREE YEARS' GUARANTEE
. "
i
m
SI
ill
These three gravity ball
indicators white, red
and. green—are clearly
visible through the trans-
parent polystyrene con-
tainer. Their floating
position shows instantly
the Battery s state of
charge.
GUARANTEED
THREE YEARS
FOLLOW THE LEAD OF THOUSANDS OF SATISFIED GRAZIERS
AND STATION OWNERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
DEMAND THE BEST . . . BUY THE BEST ... BUY CENTURY!
SILVIUM Batteries are also available for all cars, trucks, tractors, etc.
AVAILABLE FROM CENTURY BATTERY DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
The Bulletin
’THE OUTLAWS” -p°s« 32
Wednesday, January 8, 1958
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered' in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


BOOKHUNTER, Bo* 2071, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
"ROBBERY UNDER ARMS"
When the Rank Organisation decided
to film Robbery Under Arms students
of Australian literature hoped that this
movie would not only do justice to the
Boldrewood classic but would also
show that there was good literature in
Australia. When special premieres were
arranged at Bourke and Port Augusta
it seemed that a significant event in
the history of Australian letters was
about to take place. Unfortunately, the
movie was a fiasco.
Many critics already have pointed
out the weaknesses of the film.
The fact that the producers were not
true to the novel, that the acting was
often clumsy, and that the “panning”
technique of the photographers made
even the Flinders Ranges tedious to
behold, are some of the things to be
mentioned. But the main criticism must
be that the book was handled by people
who were incapable of treating the
subject-matter sympathetically.
In the January 25, 1902, issue of
“The Bulletin” an editorial makes a
distinction between the Australian and
the foreigner. The article states that:
The Australian is the man who
centres his ideals in Australia, and
consciously devotes his life to making
this country prosper.... .The
foreigner is the man who, be he of
British blood or not, works for an
end outside Australia ; and struggles
to keep this country in vassalage.
“Robbery Under Arms” was written
by an Australian, even though he was
bom in England. As part of Boldre-
wood’s adopted Australian spirit and
character, he felt an instinctive dislike
for the authority of the Queen’s
troopers, although he definitely believed
in the necessity for justice being
served. Furthermore, he held that one
man could accept another on equal
terms if both had worked together
honestly. This was in spite of what
either’s past life might have been. For
example, the author reflects the Aus-
tralian attitude towards “mateship”
when he shows how fellow-diggers on
the Turon goldfields, having discovered
that the Marstons are bushrangers, still
help them to escape from the police.
Finally, Boldrewood portrays Starlight
and his gang as romantic figures. The
Marstons and their leader fulfil the
popular conception of bushrangers as
good men who were driven outside the
law by a natural course of events.
In contrast, the film was produced by
foreigners. The Rank Organisation,
like many English observers and critics
in the past, had a preconceived notion
of what Australia was like. This led
them to portray Australians as com-
pletely subservient to the Queen’s
representatives. For example, Jim
Marston is rescued from a lynch-mob
by Sergeant Goring’s daring the crowd
to defile the uniform of the Queen. It
is inconceivable that the people of these
former penal colonies would react as
instantaneously to this plea, like a
bunch of sheep answering the summons
of a shepherd, unless the actors were
portraying law-abiding Englishmen
and not less legally-mindful Aus-
tralians. Finally, our bushranger
heroes, for whom we are supposed to
have sympathy, think nothing of
murdering innumerable members of the
Police Corps. This bloodthirsty
behavior seems strange, both in terms
of their scrupulous avoidance of cold-
blooded murder in the novel and in
terms of the first instance in the movie,
when a trooper is seriously wounded
and Starlight makes an effort to get
him to a doctor.
“Robbery Under Arms” was man-
handled by the Rank Organisation,
which obviously knew very little about
the traditions in which the book was
written. In fact, the organisation
seemed to know very little about Aus-
tralia in general. Perhaps they felt
that Australian scenery, Australian
actors and an Australian title were
enough. But Australian advisers were
needed behind the cameras, too. Then,
perhaps, we might have seen a bit of
Australiana, and not a bit of what
Englishmen think Australiana should
be.
M. D. Schmaler, T. F. Simms,
Fid bright students studying Australian
literature.
ALIVE IN THE WORLD
Perhaps we are not meant for peace.
Young Sappho found her age gone
wrong,
Plotted in exile from the hurt
Defeating world that made her song.
Perhaps in that was her release:
World written down and turned to
song;
Catching in exile her delight
In life, and death, in right, and wrong.
Perhaps in exile is the cease
Of exile and the fact of wrong;
Facing despair and avid sight
Sees all the world has need of song.
Perhaps her singing is the Greece
We dream of, for without her song—
As true as breathing, cheap as dirt—
Reality is always wrong.
N.S.W.
Ray Mathew.
Slapstick Heroics
Recollections of a Rogue (Museum
Press) is the “autobiography” of one
Samuel Chamberlain, who served
through the Mexican War of 1844 as
a private in the American Army. After
reading one chapter of Sam’s exuber-
ant presentation of himself as the hero
of popular fiction, you may place any
query you like under the label of
“Recollections” bestowed on him by
the editors of his work. He confesses
that the reading of Scott’s novels
“opened up a new and glorious world
before him,” and that he longed to
emulate their heroes.
On the first page he sets about
achieving that aspiration at the age of
sixteen by knocking out the professor
who taught boxing at the local
gymnasium. On the second page he
knocks out a rough who insults him in
the street; a performance recorded
rather in the style of Pierce Egan’s
“Tom and Jerry” than the stately prose
of Scott, as a sample attests: “1 landed
a stinger on his ‘potato trap’ with my
left ‘duke,’ drawing the ‘claret’ and
sending him to the grass.” This exploit
is performed under the admiring eyes
of two lovely young ladies, thereby
setting the pattern for all such future
heroic actions, which are invariably
awarded an audience of lovely and
adoring femininity.
On the third page he has a whole
church-full of them, for on the organist
reproving one of them for whispering,
which caused her to burst into tears,
Sam “turned on the inhuman author of
her woe” and with one blow laid him
prostrate, on which, “though I fought
like the Black Knight” (in “Ivanhoe”),
he was ejected from the church by the
united efforts of all males in the
congregation.
On the fifth page he leaves home
for ever on a stage-coach, in which he
seats himself beside a lovely heiress,
who falls for him with such passion
that at the first stage of the journey
they “consummate marriage in the eyes
of God.” Rejecting the lady’s offer of
her hand and fortune for a life of
adventure, in the space of half-a-dozen
pages he knocks-out the local champion
of the county with the usual single
blow, rescues the inmates of a young
ladies’ seminary from a fire which he
puts out single-handed, takes a job on
a farm owned by a scoundrel uncle,
beats-up a scoundrel cousin for insult-
ing him, is about to be slain with an
axe by the scoundrel uncle when a
scream from the young ladies of the
seminary warns him in time to snatch
the axe and fell the uncle with it. The
young ladies, apparently, have come
down from the seminary to witness
this deed of derring-do.
Departing thence, he rescues the
lovely young wife of an old husband
(<Continued on page 58)


mm
HARDWORKING
STURDY
f
i
■
-
■
PICK-UP : All-steel pick-up body
mounted on International AS-110,
15 cwt. Available in 115 and 127
in. wheelbase.
SERVICEMEN !
SIGNWRITERS I
SURVEYORS !
ELECTRICIANS I PLUMBERS I
ENGINEERS ! PAINTERS !
BUILDERS ! PLASTERERS l
THESE LIGHTWEIGHT
INTERNATIONAL
TRUCKS ARE BUILT
FOR TRADESMEN
WHO DEMAND
DEPENDABLE
CARRYING CAPACITY.
TRAY-BODY s Solid tray-bodie9 are
available to fit all the lightweight
International chassis.
Whether the trucking job calls for a pick-up, utility, panel van or tray-body, tradesmen who expect
top performance from their transport vehicles will find a truck in the International lightweight
range ideal.
With any body type, International lightweights have the ability to work on and on in real trucking
conditions free of the fractures and failures common in vehicles basically designed as motor cars.
Their powerful Australian Black Diamond truck engines, “all-truck” suspension and springs have
been proved on “Trial by Torture”—lnternational Harvester’s engineering and testing programme.
These sturdy, hardworking Australian-manufactured International trucks are designed to suit
your exact needs.
Why not ask your I.H. Dealer or nearest International Harvester Office about them ? Call today—
for the facts that promise you more dependable —more profitable—transport operation.
FMT-772/36
ALL-TRUCK BUILT TO SAVE YOU THE BIG MONEY!
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
*1 MMM
M


The Bulletin
Wednesday, January 8, 1958
Vol. 79—No. 4065
The National Australian Newspaper
‘"Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; 'Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
Inew Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
COMMUNISTS IN CAIRO
THE Afro-Asian Conference which
has been in session at Cairo under an
Egyptian chairman provides an excel-
lent epitome of the results of Washing-
ton’s policy in international affairs.
The Americans, of course, were not
represented, since they have now been
brigaded with the “imperialists.” But
the movement which has divided East
from West began with the beguilement
of President Roosevelt by the Leftist
mesmerists who had paramount
influence over him, and later, for a
while, over President Truman, though
the latter, a toughish realist, left office
fairly well rid of the Communist spell.
It is amazing to look back and see
how much American policy was under
the influence of the Kremlin at the end
of World War 11, with Washington’s
thinking being done for it by such men
as Alger Hiss and a band of starry-eyed
“fellow-travellers.” The policy of this
band was largely guided by a private
inferiority-complex in the presence of
the British, who had taken the brunt
of the strain of the war. Afterwards
the latter were stripped by a cold war
in which everybody who had benefited
by their early resistance to Hitler
rushed to abuse them as “imperialists”
and “gunboat diplomats” and to
relieve them of their bases and markets
—and those closely allied to them in
commerce also—in the sanctimonious
name of anti-colonialism.
The present situation may be said
to have begun when Russia and the
United States firmly combined, with
the aid of people like Aneurin Bevan
and Sir Stafford Cripps in the United
Kingdom and Dr. Evatt in Australia,
to “free” India—at the cost of its
division and of what in any other
country would have been accounted a
wholesale pogrom; to wrest control of
the oilfields of the Middle East out of
British hands; and to make what the
naive Americans accepted as a partner-
ship between the Russians and
Americans to run the North Pacific
and Eastern Asia. The Russians
decided that this arrangement should
be considered merely as a step to the
Communist capture first of China,
which was achieved with arms stolen
from the Allied pool in Manchuria,
and then of South-east Asia, including
the British territories, and Indonesia.
Indonesia, of course, was wrested
from the Dutch by Japanese collabora-
tors headed by Soekamo and backed
both by the Americans and by Lord
Louis Mountbatten. Both refused to
listen to the theory that the take-over
had been largely organised behind the
scenes by purposeful Communists
supporting Soekarno with an eye to
the future and making their plans at
the headquarters of the Australian
Communist party.
The trouble in the Middle East
began when the United States and
Russia in 1948 jointly and in full
accord induced Mr. Ernest Bevin, the
British Foreign Secretary, by pressure,
to hand back the Palestine mandate
and accept the U.S.-Russian plan to
separate the Jews and the Arabs by
creation of the new State of Israel and
give the Jews (who formed less fhan a
third of the population of Palestine)
over 60 per cent, of the area, including
the richer littoral.
This division was made in a manner
which —as the Russians plainly saw—
would produce inevitably a horrible
crack in the precariously balanced
political structure of the Arab king-
doms, with a critical explosive tamped
into it.
Subsequently policies were based on
the need to make concessions again
and again to the Moslem countries, to
bolster-up the feeble economies and
wraithlike, or banditlike, Governments
of “slave countries” which were not
homogeneous and whose inhabitants
were unfit to govern themselves.
The group of “representatives” which
met last week in Cairo are the heirs of
the policies and hates of the Bandoeng
Conference. The Afro-Asian group was
bom in Bandoeng, in fact, behind the
barbed-wire and guns which make it
possible for the fathers of the merdeka
to continue to exist in Indonesia today
as then, even if they can’t govern the
group of islands which are no more a
nation than a clothesline of diverse
birds. Few of those represented in
Cairo were democratic, none of them
has a Government in accord with the
Atlantic Charter, none has aihbitions
in accord with those of the United
Nations, of which most of them are
purposeful and avaricious members.
They would not exist as a group in
these days if there were not a guiding
hand and organising centre, which is
not, as Washington would have
prophesied a decade ago if such a
group had then been envisioned, in the
United Nations h.q. but in the
U.S.S.R., which now calls the tune.
Mr. Dulles only sits on the sidelines
in the area of the Baghdad Pact, which
he essays to run without being of it,
the members (according to the
American Associated Press corres-
pondents who supply Australia with
news) being “Pakistan, Turkey, Irak,
Britain and Iran”—this apparently is
the order of importance of nations in
which some American and Australian
editors like to encourage readers to
think of the nations involved in the
Middle East.
The Afro-Asian “solidarity” con-
ference was directly bom of the plan-
ning of a preparatory committee which
met in Cairo on October 21. Its
members were the Soviet Union, China,
Egypt and Syria.
Subjects on the agenda included
questions affecting the grievances and
policies of the small Arab States on
which the Communists are most anxious
to get their claws, and resolutions to
induce the 39 nation-members to adopt
as Asian policy the Russian programme
for “banning nuclear tests” and
generally to “answer imperialist plots
against certain Asian and African
States.”
Invitations were issued by a Com-
munist-fronted organising body called
the Asian Solidarity Committee and
to peoples (not Governments, unless the
Governments could be depended on to
back Moscow plans). Ghana, Uganda,
Morocco, Nigeria, Somaliland and
Cyprus were asked to send delegates on
this basis.
The London “Times” diplomatic
correspondent, usually the most
cautious of men in sticking labels on
peoples and movements, some time
ago described the conference as “pretty
clearly a Communist masquerade in
the borrowed colors of Bandoeng”—
in other words, it is a coming-together
of the delegates of the local solidarity-
committees which are offshoots of the
Asian Solidarity Committee, on
Egyptian soil with an Egyptian chair-
man, to further the plans of Moscow
for global conquest. The objectives
are so plain that Kenya and Tanganyika
delegates were refused passports by
local authorities on the ground that
the conference was a Communist
“plapt.”
Russia was large as life at the
conference, at which no country
unfriendly to Moscow was admitted,
and which Pakistan, Jordan, Saudi
Arabia, Turkey, the Philippines, South
Vietnam and South Korea boycotted.
The conference is another illustra-
tion of how far the policies of the West
have failed through American align-
ment with Russian objectives after the
war, and also of the failures caused by
the white countries of the British Com-
monwealth not sticking together on
foreign policy.


“We’ll have to find somewhere else to meet in future, dear; this place is becoming far too public.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Labor and Indonesia
One of the most likely bets of the first
weeks of 1958 is that the Communists
will take over Indonesia as soon as they
feel that the time is right; moreover, that
they will take it over with the help of
Soekarno, one of the most untrustworthy
dictators who ever betrayed his friends.
It is fashionable to forget the circum-
stances of his entry into power. But a
recourse to the Australian monitor-service
of the Japanese radio in Djakarta during
the occupation, when Australians were
under torture and suffering constant
starvation in prison camps, might be
healthy.
Mr. Calwell, who is so eager to ban the
Japanese from decent society for ever
for their treatment of Australian p.-0.-w.,
ran the monitor service in his Department
of Information, and its issues of
Japanese transmissions show beyond doubt
that the Javanese “freedom movement” of
1944-45 was organised by the Japanese
to defeat Allied invasion ; that Soekarno
and Hatta were not collaborators but
Japanese tools.
The Communists in Australia adopted
the movement after the Japanese defeat
and even infiltrated the Seventh Division
with their agents, who, when the
Australians landed at Pontianak, began
the distribution of Communist literature
prepared in Australia urging rebellion
against the Dutch, who were then our
comrades in arms.
The repeated cry of Labor, in and out
of office, ever since has been that the
Communists have had nothing to do with
the Indonesian “freedom movement.”
Yet the evidence that they were at the
bottom of the whole business after
Soekarno lost his Japanese support is
clear as daylight.
The Dutch published evidence of what
was happening in Australia, though it was
scarcely needed in the face of the support
given the rebels by the Australian Com-
munist Party and its associated unions,
run by men like Thornton and Healy, on
the Labor Prime Minister’s trade-union
advisory committee, which seemed, from
1941 onwards, to dictate Australian
foreign policy with the help of Dr. Evatt.
During the period immediately after
the crushing of Japan, when Indonesia
was still under military occupation, Aus-
tralians on duty giving succor to p.-0.-w.
and refugees were murdered by the rebels,
and innocent civilians were massacred by
Communist-incited mobs.
In Australia the Dutch were boycotted
on the wharves, jeered at, their ships even
stoned, and the only action Dr. Evatt’s
Government took was to make an on-
slaught on the Netherlands Minister, who
was moved to a protest by the Govern-
ment's waiving of all law and decency so
that Healy and Thornton and their allies
might have their way. Mr. Eric (later
Sir Eric) Harrison said in the Budget
debate of 1946-47 in November, 1946:
Wliat has the Government clone to secure
that our former valuable trade connections
with the Netherlands Fast Indies shall be
preserved, let alone extended? Honorable
members will remember how the [Chifley]
Government grave in 'to the waterside-
workers when they 1 refused to load Dutch
ships. They will recall how trade orders
worth £8,000,000 or more were cancelled by
the Netherlands Government because the
groods could not be supplied by Australia.
They will recall, too, that the trade was
diverted to the United States of America.
And, strangrely enough, the very men
whom the militant waterside-workers
supported finally found their way back
from Australia to Java and serviced the
ships which operated between Java and
America carrying the cargoes w T hieh
should have been shipped from Australia.
The Yalta honeymoon was still on,
and Russia and U.S. were joint organisers
of anti-colonialism.
In 1946 Dr. Evatt, having told T. W.
White, M.P., that he would have the
matter open for discussion in his state-
ment on foreign affairs, failed to say a
single word about the matter. Mr.
White summarised the position:
He [Dr. Evatt] has been asked about the
matter since his return from abroad, and
lie has evaded a reply. Yet it is of primary
importance. Good Australian lives have
been lost in Java —the lives of officers who
went there to carry out a mission of
peace; to ensure the rounding-up of the
Japanese and a smooth transition from
war to peace. Food-ships containing
medical suplies for women and children,
who had been in internment-camps for
years, were held up fpr more than a year.
To our eternal disgrace, it was necessary
for a few individuals to secretly provide
enough firewood and coal to allow the
Dutch ships to leave Australian waters.
He continued:- —
Recently we had the spectacle of the
[ship] Tasman, named after the great
Dutch navigator who was the first person
to touch Australian shores, being refused
the services of a tug and having to make
its own way to its berth and to be un-
loaded and loaded by Dutch children....
The Minister has abdicated in favor of a
handful of lawbreakers who dominate 22
powerful unions in N. S. Wales and call
the tune to which this spineless Govern-
ment dances.
As Mr. Menzies said at the time also,
Dr. Evatt and his Government for the
whole of 12 months while the Indonesian
rebellion was maturing after the war was
“publicly defeated by a few Communists
on the waterfront —publicly defeated and
publicly humiliated.”
The Chifley Government’s heirs in the
Federal Opposition are obviously still
Communist captives. Almost every word
Dr. Evatt says—or telegraphs—plays into
the hands of the Communists, who are
organising for their chance in Indonesia.
Willingly or not, they are contributing
substantially by their attitude to the
establishment of the Iron Curtain along
the very frontier of the Australian
northern coast.
Catch-as-catch-can
The report of the Local Government
Department of N.S.W. for the year ended
June 30, 1956 —issued, of course, to the
public 18 months later towards the end of
1957 —paints a quaint picture of how
municipalities are run in the Mother State
and of how much or how little discipline
is imposed to compel these often ragged
and irresponsible little assemblies to
comply with the law and the ordinary
principles of finance and good govern-
ment.
It is prescribed under the Act that
councils shall submit a statement of
accounts to the department each year by
April 1. A highly appropriate date, it
would seem.
The report reveals that the highest
percentage of such statutory reports sub-
mitted by the due date in any one year
since 1951 was 11.3 in 1953, and that
whereas in 1939 all of 28.8 per cent,
succeeded in living up to their obliga-
tions, the percentage in 1956 was only
5.1 per cent., “the lowest on record.”
Even on June 1, two months later,
only 31.3 per cent, of all the accounts
had been received, and the department
was “most disappointed” at the “further
deterioration of the position during the
year,” which “indicated a lack of
appreciation of the need for efficient and
prompt rendering of accounts.”
Of 332 sets of accounts ultimately
submitted, 11 were returned for revision.
Councils were not so careless in respect
of annual estimates, which are supposed
to be sent to the Minister within 14 days
after adoption ; but many councils had
to be reminded of their obligations.
It was noted that while there was “an
improvement in the form of the annual
estimates submitted,” there were “still
many instances in which the estimates
were prepared on a receipts-and-
payments basis instead of on an income-
and-expenditure basis.”
One wonders what would happen to a
board of directors and management
which dealt with its estimates in that
fashion, and what its auditors and share-
holders would have to say to it.
Nearly half the councils were remiss
about quarterly financial statements, but
it bucked Mr. Renshaw’s minions up no
end that those which did try to obey the
law “made what might be regarded as a
reasonable attempt to comply with
statutory requirements.”
However, “as in previous years, many
councils failed to prepare statements in
respect of trading special and local
accounts,” and in “numerous instances
the statements submitted gave no indica-
tion as to the probable position at the
end of the financial year, notwithstanding
the fact that there had been substantial
departures from the original estimates.”
Three important councils were wiped-
out temporarily—Leichhardt, Bankstown
and Shoalhaven —and the municipalities
placed under administrators.
The department remarks naively that
there were 21 councils’ offices which had
“not been inspected for 20 years or
more,” and it noted that “weaknesses in
the control of stores and materials were
again evident.”
The councils are big business. Apart
from their own heavy rate-collections they
receive Government financial assistance
of about £10,000,000 from various depart-
ments. They raise big loans with
delightful abandon via the Loan Council.
Their employees receive high salaries —
higher in many cases than commensurate
salaries in private business.
But financial administration seems to
be catch-as-catch-can with a good pro-
portion of them and real insistence by


the Minister on efficient administration
and compliance with law nil.
"Bring Out a Briton"
The attacks by L. A. Clapperton,
president of the British-Australian
Association, on the Commonwealth
immigration policy as applied to Britons
need consideration.
He has more than once challenged the
Department of Immigration to prove its
claim that Britons represent 47 p.c. of
migrants since the war. He says
that this figure includes large numbers
of people from British colonies who are
not British in race, such as Maltese and
Cypriots, and returning Britons
resident in Australia who have been
abroad.
He declares that the true figure for
British migration is about 7 p.c. of the
whole, and that the immigration
authorities favor southern Europeans,
despite the fact that Britain from its
population-increase of 200,000 a year
could supply all our needs.
Facts and figures certainly lend some
color to his claims. The number of
colonies of southern Europeans who are
to be found grouped together in various
Sydney suburbs perhaps tend to make
the accretions of these people seem larger
than they may be, but the truth is that
they are becoming more obvious and
are not being assimilated.
It would be easy to think of reasons
why bureaucrats eager to show big
migration-figures would tend to prefer
these people, a good many of whom are
sub-standard in education and habits by
Australian experience.
They are, in the first place, easy to
get, because they need no persuasion to
leave the poverty and sometimes oppres-
sion of their own countries ; indeed, are
willing to pay away all their savings to
the immigration-agents who roam Europe
offering to take them overseas.
Arrived in Australia, they take what is
offered to them, with the result that heavy
work in the Transport Department of
N.S.W., such as removing tram-rails, or in
the Snowy River, is often almost wholly
manned by newly-arrived foreigners
where they are available, with a few
standover Australians restraining them
from working too hard.
As Tor accommodation, they will
accept what they are offered.
Some of them turn out to be splendid
citizens who set an example to Aus-
tralians in industry and conduct, but all
too many become strolling hobos or
criminals, and some of the worst
tragedies of the past few years have been
attributable to them.
It may be true that British migrants
are rather a nuisance to immigration
officials. They require a higher standard
of living from the outset. They naturally
do not like being herded and pushed
around in migrant hostels and told where
to work and how. They do not like
coming to Australia without knowing
who is going to employ them or where
they are going to stay. And they
particularly do not like the realities they
encounter after the rosy pictures painted
to them by Australia House and its
whooping minions. Many of them are
allergic to Australian loaf imposed by
Communist unions.
The right class of British migrant is
worth taking a bit of trouble to get and
keep. But getting him appears to be
beyond the power or organisation of the
Immigration Department, which seems
to go for the easy marks and trust to
propaganda to cover up its failures.
The whole matter needs special atten-
tion. Community settlement—the, bring-
ing-out of specialised British industries
or groups fully tooled-up and manned —
seems to offer scope for consideration.
Farming communities like the German
groups who came out during the first
century of free settlement also are worth
thinking about.
Not Enough Uniforms
Victorians were so appalled by the toll
of the road in the first few days of the
holidays that they were shocked into saner
behavior, according to police experts.
Sputniks and
Air Power —page 36
Yet only the slaughter on the roads
achieved this result.
Before the holiday season the press,
radio, T.V, National Safety Council and
Royal Automobile Club had co-operated
admirably, and with the Police Depart-
ment, in educational warnings ; and
police-commissioner Porter, in addition
to marshalling all his normal traffic staffs,
had announced that he was sending out
competent policemen in cars with no
official insignia on their exterior and with
concealed loudspeakers to tick-off minor
offenders.
All this preparation and sincere effort
was unavailing, and the predominant
opinion of Victorian motorists that the
only effective means of ensuring safe
driving is the sight of uniformed police-
men must now be accepted.
All the uniformed men who could
be worked under the present internal
organisation of the police force were
employed, and obviously were not
enough. There is no doubt of commis-
sioner Porter’s awareness of the dangers
of the roads, or of his vigor in tackling
them, but some reorganisation of the
force is clearly needed to deal with the
worst problem facing his department.
It is questionable whether the efforts
of some of Russell Street’s “squads” are
worth the use of manpower when it is so
urgently needed to help cope with the
road emergency. Is the licensing squad,
which seldom comes up with anything
more than technical charges against
hotelkeepers (such as having a door
locked or unlocked, or having a lodger’s
name signed in pencil and not in ink)
being used to the best advantage of
citizens?
Is the Vice Squad, with its men and
cars, achieving anything worth-while in
trapping street prostitutes who pay their
fines and immediately return —fortu-
nately, according to some authorities —to
their old beats, and in laying elaborate
plans to raid brothels which the police
not infrequently admit are clean and
quiet?
There can be no doubt that the Gaming
Squad would be better employed in
uniforms on bicycles watching traffic,
and largely visible at least at peak-traffic
times than in carrying on its routine
operations against the s.-p. merchants or,
as was recently revealed, sending a young
man to Castlemaine to pose as somebody
else in the hope of catching an alleged
starting-price man.
An enormous amount of police time
also is lost in hauling-off to watchhouses
drunken or semi-drunken men instead of
putting them in taxis and sending them
home, the price of the fare providing a
fine. Englishmen in the Australian forces
are derisive about the large number of
unnecessary arrests, and the consequent
loss of time in court appearances, in
Australia.
Some watch on these human frailties
is necessary, of course, but Mr. Porter
must plan more boldly to achieve the
result he so sincerely desires.
The Bureaucracy
[From Canberra]
The amazing growth of bureaucracy in
Australia came to light when Prime
Minister Menzies admitted there were
now 274 boards and committees function-
ing in the Federal sphere.
Apart altogether from the 22 Com-
monwealth Government departments and
the boards and commissions which
operate under the aegis of the various
States!
Of the total number of boards and
committees, 109 have been established
by the Government, 86 under Parlia-
mentary authority, 54 under the Terri-
tories ordinances, six under the powers
of the Administrator of Papua and New
Guinea, and 12 under the Australian
Capital Territory regulations.
It took the P.M. 21 pages of foolscap
to name the boards and briefly describe
their functions.
There are all sorts of boards and com-
missions. They range from the Public
Service Board, which gets pride of place
at the top of the list, through the His-
toric Memorials Committee, the Taxation
Relief Board, the. Apple and Pear
Board, the Stores and Tenders Board,
the Flax Production Commission, the
Egg Board to the Literature Censorship
Board and the Film Censorship Board.
What Menzies did not say was whether
the Government hears very often the
results of their activities. Certainly it is
a long time since many of those
appointed by the Parliament have hinted
as to what they have been doing.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
T ENJOY reading country news-
A papers. ,The emasculated journalism
of the metropolitan press has no place ;
one reads of “the assembled guests” doing
“justice to the sumptuous repast which
was spread before them.” One paper
quotes in great detail the list of cases
at the ambulance-centre during the week,
and I was intrigued to see that a little girl
had received treatment for a lacerated
wound to the nose, the result of a blow
from a cow-bell. It has that lavender-and-
old-lace tone, as of being run-over by a
buggy.—“ Hamish.”
»> +*♦
“D.J.G.”: Where but dog-worshipping
England would you be able to buy a
special Christmas stocking for man’s best
friend? At a famous London store this
Christmas they were offering one for
ss. 6d.: contents —dog-sweets, a ball,
dog-food, dog-biscuits and an edible
biscuit-“bone.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pelga”: Dorothy Sayers wouldn’t
have been surprised at the fantasies pub-
lished about her since her death. Her
essay “How Free Is the Press?” describes
her own experiences of misrepresentation
under the seven headings of False
Emphasis, Garbling, Inaccuracy, Reversal
of Fact, Random Invention, Miracle-
mongering and Flat Suppression !
Authors of such essays, especially if they
are good enough to be set for Leaving
Certificate examinations, know exactly
what to expect in the obituary-columns.
«J 4 {4
“Ellsbells”: Reporting proceedings of
courts of petty sessions for a Melbourne
daily has taught me two standards of in-
toxication. Almost without fail police-
witnesses will say “accused had been
drinking but was not drunk” if a mis-
demeanor might tend to be partly put
down to strong drink. On the other hand,
a driver of a motor-vehicle involved in an
accident who gives any indication of
having imbibed at all is usually “intoxi-
cated and incapable of driving a vehicle.”
+J+ ♦£♦
“Cobbler”: You’d hardly think
motorists would need shock-resistant
soles, but that’s what they get in their
new English motoring-shoes in car-colors,
and with special heels to prevent the suede
rubbing. You'd think, if the British
tanners really wanted a hard-wearing
novelty, they’d pass-up tanning haddock-
skins (their latest lurk) and give the pedes-
trian public tanned motorist-hide to walk
on!
❖ ❖ ❖
“C.A.A.”: Discussing with a Tas-
manian friend the proposed Bass Strait
ferry-service I suggested that the Speck’s
importance warranted a bridge, if that
were an engineering possibility. “What,”
he exploded, “and let the mob in?”
❖ *> »>
“Handout”: When British television
was 21 on November 2, 1957, twenty
million of Britain’s 37,800,000 adult
population had television-receivers in their
homes. It’s a terrible thing to say about
adult population—or maybe 8.8. C.
television is different from Australian TV.
“Then I finally persuaded my husband to buy me this new spring hat."
THE UNSUSPECTED ENEMY
“A man suffered a deep puncture-wound in
the neck when he was struck by a steel spike
of a beach-umbrella blown over by the wind
at Austinmer Beach (N.5.W.).”
A sullen, fierce resistance
Underlies our Age ;
The motors grind their pistons
And boil themselves with rage;
The valves of the broadcasters
Are almost screaming while
Their suave and cruel masters
Twist them to a smile.
And take the beach-umbrella
That’s just got out of hand
And stabbed a harmless fella
Sitting on the sand —
What hates must Brolly sup with ?
What poisons fill his cup ?
What has he to put up with
When he has been put up ?
Poor striped and broiling Brolly;
There’s no respite for him !
He’s left there, melancholy,
While others go to swim;
His outstretched members yawning,
He’s not allowed collapse ;
He sticks around, an awning
For shady girls and chaps.
Then —something snaps inside him
And breaks the moral check ;
The winds of passion ride him —
He spikes you in the neck !
This lesson should prepare us all
For danger more acute —
Rebellion of the Parasol,
The Tent and Parachute.
I see the Brollies on the move
In awesome awning ranks,
The Parachutes afloat above,
The Tents below, like tanks;
The war will soon be over,
There’ll be nothing you can do —
How can you run for cover
When cover runs at you ?
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


THERE’S an old familiar ring about
the English “palace revolution”
and the report that Windsor Castle
is being cleared of its accumulated junk.
Listen to Edward Legge, a 1912 bio-
grapher of Edward VII:
Immediately after his accession the King
laid his reforming hand upon Windsor. He
found that an army of parasites had been
for many years living upon kind-hearted
Queen Victoria.
These apparently were ousted in the
clean-up of things the new monarch did
not like, and the biographer triumphantly
trumpets in true Edwardian style:
As Hercules cleansed the Augean stables,
so King Edward purified Windsor Castle,
and made it a place of sweet savor.
Tingle Tangle.
❖ ❖ *J*
“Tiki”: Now that summer is here
again let’s hope someone begins cam-
paigning for “Sensible Summer Dress
Reform” again*; it worked well in a stock-
broking-firm in Columbia, South Caro-
lina (U.S.A.), which, during a spell of hot
weather, authorised its clerks to wear
shorts at work. Within a day there was
a marked increase in business —the clerks
Were mostly attractive young women.
* ❖ ❖
“Tom Trout”: They really go in for
family sympathy in Italy. The boy
brought into my ward for a tonsillectomy
came in surrounded by parents, brothers,
sisters and assorted cousins. When the
rest had to leave, Mamma stayed on, and
stayed put until Pappa relieved her, and
after him big sister took over until lights
out. Nor did the staff raise any objections
when Mamma started the next day’s shift
in the bedside chair at 7 a.m. After all,
the patient was only nineteen years old!
❖ ❖
“Kenyas”: A woman member of a
church which is dead against gambling
in any shape or form doesn’t mind a bit
of a flutter herself. At a service a few
Sundays ago there was a special collection,
so she dived into her bag and put in the
plate what she thought was a- pound-
note. Only when the plate had drifted
down the other end of the pew did she
make the shocking discovery that, instead
of the quid, she’d parted with a lottery-
ticket she’d bought the day before.
She couldn’t muster the courage to claim
the ticket. After the lottery was drawn,
she learned it would have been worth £3O
to her.
♦J* ❖
“Wusslean”: A Victorian who had
several convictions was reported to
have been serving on a jury. Until the
system was changed, the lists were drawn-
up by police making a house-to-house
canvass. Shortly after my house was built
a constable, finding no one at Lome, asked
a neighbor: “What does the chap next-
door do?” On being informed, in-
correctly, that I worked for a public
utility, he said: “That rules him out;
thanks for the information ; it saves me
a trip back!” How many others have
been similarly denied the privilege of
serving on a jury?
“Pip Tok”: Thd three young officers
in. mufti and their _ girl-friends, who
turned out a guard at a regimental depot
in the U.K., are likely to get more than a
“Please explain” from the C.O. I well
remember the sequel to an unauthorised
“Guard Turn Out” in the old days in
Sydney, when the R.A.A. used to furnish
a guard at Government House. It was
an officers’ guard, and the sentry on
No. 1 Post, by the gates leading
“We Want to change it for one that doesn't show ads."
into Government House grounds, Avas not
particularly bright* It had been impressed
upon him that he must turn out the
guard for Grand Rounds, expected at
about 10.30 p.m. Precisely at 10.15 there
came the stentorian roar, “Guard, turn
out!” The guard fell in, in the moon-
light, but there was no sign of Grand
Rounds. In reply to the angry query of
the officer of the guard, the sentry said,
“It’s all right, sir. I was just practising.”
What the colonel said at orderly-room
next morning was “Four extra guards.”
*•> »>
“North Esk”: After being in use for 50
years the coat-of-arms of Launceston
(Tas.) has been registered by the London
College of Arms, and the “letters patent,”
hand-painted and hand-lettered on
vellum, carrjing the seal of the Garter
King of Arms and that of the Clarenceux
King of Arms, have been received, to be
mounted in a dustproof case in the
council-chambers.
<s* ♦!«
“Piketrailer” (London): H - bombs,
sputniks and intercontinental ballistic-
missiles may all overshadow military
thinking, but the current problem here in
U.K. is the proposed amalgamation under
the Army cuts of the Highland Light
Infantry and the Royal Scots Fusiliers.
This forced marriage of a Highland and
a Lowland regiment was finally thrashed
out by both regiments, and their big
decision was to retain the kilt, worn by
the H.L.1., in their dress. However, the
Army Council said no, the new regiment
was going to form part of the Lowland
Brigade and must wear trews. The
colonels of each regiment, both retired
major-generals, remained adamant, and
the War Minister has taken the almost-
unprecedented step of calling on them to
resign. But the fires of battle still burn
brightly north of the Border. The H.L.I.
come from Glasgow, with an Old Com-
rades Association of 100,000. And, what-
ever those C.M.F. blokes may think, the
kilt is a great recruit-winner.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ <s*
“Zorok”: “Only a Miracle Can Save
U. 5.,” said a daily-paper heading on a
news-page on Friday, Dec. 27. At first
glance I thought the article was going to
deal with weighty matters of Western
security, Russian technical lead, etc. But
it was merely recording Australia’s 2-0
lead after the opening singles of the
Davis Cup.
♦;* ♦> ♦>
“Buster”: That’s O.K. for “Tackline
S.” (B. 25/12/ ’57) to talk about his mate
who got an acknowledgment of his bad-
debt in writing for twice the money
owed. I did that and promptly received
a cheque for the double amount. Then
I had to race round and do some fast
talking about “mistakes will happen.”
»!• *
“Bo”: Of the untoward events that
happened this Yule tide in our neck o’ the
woods, I record the most poignant. Mrs.
Youngbride resolved to make for Him an
old-fashioned duff such as his mother
used to make —one boiled in a pudding-
cloth. ' She followed the instructions
faithfully, even to allowing the sod room
to inflate; but, doing it without help,


she lacked the strength to tie the tapes.
When she hoisted it out a goodly pro-
portion of the water was incorporated in
the duff. But modern scientific engineer-
ing was immediately at her hand and aid.
Retying it, she dropped it into the empty
washing-machine, set it to spin-dry, and
snapped it on. I’d like to report that the
operation was a success ; but by the look
on his Nibs’s dial as he scraped the bits
out of the holes in the bowl, a job that
took him about half-an-hour, the use of
the hose being verboten, it wasn’t.
“C.A.A.”: On my weekly excursion
into the hills I noticed the sign “Straw-
berries for sale” prominently displayed at
the road’s edge fronting a farm-house.
Returning the same way I saw the sign
had been discreetly covered with hessian.
These vendors were not only observing
the law about no night-sales; they
wanted no night-customers, either,
♦> * * v
“Eureka”: Men are indeed strange
drinkers: If four men go into a cafe for
tea or coffee, one pays for the four or
each pays for his own, but if the same
men go into a bar each must shout for
the others, so that each has four drinks.
“Kenyas”: Bradfield Park (Sydney)
hut-exteriors are being dolled-up with
many-hued paints in the hope, maybe,
that the migrant families there will have
their minds taken off such grim details as
communal bathrooms and toilets.
tj» ♦Jt
“Dicky”: I should like Bill Howard to
meet a cobber of mine, who swears that
after an evening in Paris he was able to
circumnavigate the Arc de Triomphe
riding a girl’s bicycle with a 501 b.
rucksack on his back and two bottles of
wine slung across the handle-bars.
What’s more, he reckons that after the
effort both he and the bottles of plonk
were still full.
*
“Sevenelms”: “Sandra” (B. 18/12/’57)
with her English mince-pie-addict husband
can take some comfort from the fact that
she has not, as Elizabeth Pepys'had, to
compose her pies of larks’ tongues in the
conventional shape of the Nativity Crib.
Our round, Christmas weet-vcsmct pies
have been in use only a couple of cen-
turies. “Sandra” also, I trust, does not
have to comfort a husband who returns
from church wounded in the hand by a
hussy-wielded bodkin.
A A A
V V V
“Kerba”: Our street has taken a stern
view of its policeman-resident. His
neighbor took it first—a rather prominent
blue-serged one pointing skywards while
its owner’s for’ard end was lost amongst
the roots of some dahlias. Her mystifica-
tion subsided with the lynx-eyed percep-
tion of a cunningly-camouflaged hose
snaking to his “knuckled-down” hand.
The yodelling “00-oo” with which
females attract one another’s attention
brought in the far-side neighbor—and
caused the Law cautiously to raise a
round, red face. Immediately it was
dropped, and a stream of weeds began to
fly out from beyond the blue horizon.
A pitiable subterfuge. The ogre no longer
existed. It’s to be hoped the Water Board
inspector never comes down our street
now; he’d take a stern view, too—a
streetful of ’em.,
*z* >;•
“P.0.M.C.”: Having watched many
of the ingenious toys of today, such as
that remote-controlled battery-operated
robot (B. 18 /12 / ’57), in action, I’m con-
vinced that the average small boy would
be incapable of playing with some of them
if the average father didn’t have the in-
extinguishable desire and capacity for
first finding out how they worked.
❖ ❖ *
“Brick E.”: That “steel-nerved rigger”
who got down from the heights at knock-
off time by dropping from
one girder to another a
floor below (B. 27/11/’57)
would have promptly lost
his ticket if an inspector of
the Department of Labor
and Industry had seen the
exhibition. Riggers and
scaffolders are obliged by
law to pass an examination
and take out a licence before
carrying out such work.
And three highly-commend-
able axioms are stressed
during the instruction
course, (a) A rigger is not,
these days, expected to be
able to “climb like a
monkey.” ( b ) When work-
ing aloft a rigger should
remember the old seaman’s
maxim: “One hand for the
master, one hand for your-
self.” (c) “Don’t ‘walk
Blond in’ on even compara-
tively wide girders. Remem-
ber, if you must play, play
safe.” In other, good
Aussie, words, “Don’t
be flash.” For that was pre-
cisely what that steel-nerved
rigger was doing. Take away his awed
and admiring audience and he would no
doubt be as cautious and sensible as his
more intelligent mates.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Zorok”: A 99-year-old Queenslander,
passing through Sydney by plane just
before Christmas, gave as his reason for
a long life: “Never do anything to
excess.” No doubt having three wives
doesn’t count unless you have them all
at the same time.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“J.T.”: Cashing two Bulletin postal-
notes and thinking whether I ought to
start a new Suez Canal or buy an aero-
plane, I was arrested* in my dreams by
the postmaster asking me to wait a little.
He then produced a long list of stolen
postal-notes from Victoria and proceeded
to check the numbers of mine. He
appeared to me to take such a long time
that I now fully understand the old
Bulletin line: “Thank Heaven, that’s
paid!”
“THE FOOD OF LOVE”
“A French psychiatrist says that the heart
has nothing at ail to do with the emotion of
love; the motivating glands probably lie some-
where in the region of the stomach.”
It’s sad to think that, for so long,
Bards and song-writers have been wrong.
It’s really stupid
To entertain the likelihood
That any cardiac organ could
Be rocked by Cupid.
That lover of his love bereft
May suffer from a heart that’s cleft
Not even a dumb hick
Would credit. So it’s feasible
Love-glands that cause both bliss and hell
Lie in the stomach.
They can’t be resident in the brain,
Else how’d there ever be a swain
For Joan or Phyllis ?
And were they lodged in lights or gall,
Disturbances emotional
Could possibly kill us!
When next you fall in love, heed well
The flutterings that you cannot quell;
Not pulmonary
Will they be in their origin —
You’ll find that they'll be centred in
Your little Mary !
Instead of hearts, you must believe,
Lovers wear stomachs on their sleeve
As the new fashion ;
Yet that can’t look too hot, I’m sure,
As symbol of devotion pure,
Of burning passion.
Well, if you get in fume and fret,
Your bingy rumbling and. upset,
Here is the question :
Just how do you resolve the doubt
Whether it’s love, or just a bout
Of indigestion ?
n.s.w.
S. W. K.


Old Bore’s Almanack for 1958
Jan. : After much publicised prepara-
tion, an artificial satellite launched from
Spokane (Wa.) will succeed in rising to
a height of 17ft. After drinking 23
double-header vodkas at a party in
Moscow held to celebrate the 50th anni-
versary of the invention by a Russian
scientist of the juke-box, Nikita
Khrushchev will tell the British
Ambassador he proposes personally to
sponsor a scheme to send all sons of
Politburo members to Eton to become
gentlemen. A spokesman for the Sydney
Water Board will reveal that the board’s
plans are well advanced to ensure an
adequate supply of water against the
expected time when Sydney has a popu-
lation of one-and-a-half million. A
Hollywood screen-star will remarry for
the third time her second husband’s
father. Someone will succeed in finding
out what all the Indonesian politicians
are doctors of.
Feb. : A letter from Dr. Evatt to
Molotov will be returned, the envelope
re-stuck after having been steamed
open, and carrying the inscription:
“Addressee’s present whereabouts
unknown.” After drinking 26 Scotch-
vodka crosses at a diplomatic party
given by the British Ambassador,
Khrushchev, in a speech of thanks to
his host, will boast that at a lift of his
finger Soviet nuclear-rockets could turn
England into a gigantic crematorium. A
man named John Bull will be fined for
underpaying his employees and working
them a 54-hour week in his backyard
factory, and it will be disclosed that
before changing it by deed-poll his real
name was Ignace Przsplyxnski. An all-
American baseball-team will include
Guiseppe Spaghettiero, Manny Mancie-
wicz, Micky Bludwurst, Erf Snorkel-
patz, Juan Martinez and Hank Bitza. The
day after the Sydney Water Board adopts
the slogan “Waste Not, Want Not” and
invites the board’s users to follow it
meticulously, a burst water-main will run
in an outer suburb for 19 hours before
being fixed.
Mar.: The Vice-President of a Com-
munist satellite State, who had recently
been a critic of Soviet foreign policy,
will fall on his head from a sixth-story
window; after his State funeral
“Izvestia,” in a leading article, will
deplore the “untimely death of this stout
champion of the Socialist life,” and will
announce that its cause undoubtedly
flowed from his lifelong eccentric habit
of leaning backwards out his window to
read the daily paper. Chou En-lai will
announce that the birds’-nest soup,
pigtail-plaiting and kite-flying industries
will shortly - be collectivised. The
organiser of an N.S.W. Left-wing union
will be appointed to the newly-formed
Nutmeg Board at £4OOO a year, and Mr.
Cahill, replying to criticism of the
appointment, will state that he had got
the job “only because of his specialised
knowledge.” The Council of Churches
will protest to the N.S.W. Premier on
the holding of the Easter Show on Good
Friday, and Mr. Cahill will promise the
delegation to give it “his most earnest
consideration.”
Apl. : Attendance figures for the Royal
Show on Good Friday will set new
records. A battery of 30 TV-cameras
will record the launching of an American
artificial satellite which will succeed in
rising to a height of 33ft.; the President’s
press-secretary will describe .it as “a
definite improvement on the previous
attempt.” A 76-year-old American
playboy-millionaire will marry a 17-year-
old blonde strip-tease artist, who will tell
the press that she had been “swept off
her feet in a whirlwind courtship.”
Simultaneous issues of “Crowd” and
“Weekend” will contain only 88 per
cent, of sex-matter and -photos, and there
will be major shake-ups in the editorial
staffs of both magazines.
May: Moscow Radio will disclose
that Khrushchev now wears contrasting
waistcoats with his sac-suits, and this
will be interpreted by a famous expert
on Russian affairs as a hopeful sign of
a rapprochement between East and West.
A delegation of Australian militant-
union leaders will visit Red China at the
invitation of Mao Tse-tung to study the
working of collectivist birds’-nest farms ;
a spokesman for the delegation, defend-
ing the tour on their return, will claim
that “the educational value of the trip
more than compensated for the few paltry
thousands it cost unionists.” An Aus-
tralian TV-programme will star succes-
sively Tom Mix, little Shirley Temple,
Dorothy Gish and Bobby Breen. The
“S. M. Herald” will praise Mr. Menzies.
A Brisbane centenarian will ascribe his
remarkable health to the fact that he has
three o.p. rums a day and has been a
constant pipe-smoker for 82 years. The
Customs Department will ban When
We Were Very Young.
June: A Melbourne centenarian will
tell a reporter that his longevity is due
to his lifelong abstinence from alcohol
and tobacco. The wife of a man from
Jacksonville (Fla.) will get a divorce on
the grounds of incompatibility of
temperament, after giving evidence that
her husband had the annoying habit of
sucking his teeth while viewing TV. The
pop-tune “Muh Honey Sure Can Swing
Her Hips,” based on a section of
Beethoven’s “Missa Solemnis,” will head
the hit-parade for the sixth time, and
disk-sales will gross eight-million dollars.
A man who expresses the opinion that
politicians more than deserve the
inadequate pension they get will be taken
to the Reception House for observation.
Fashion-designer Pierre Balmain will
cause a sensation with his new “spinnaker-
top” dress, which gives the wearer the
appearance of being blown along: a
cross-section of women interviewed in
Australia will be unanimously of the
opinion that Australian women would
never wear such a monstrosity.
July: At Canterbury a disappointed
punter will shake his fist and yell “Rub
the cows out!” when the heavily-backed,
unplaced, short-odds favorite returns to
scale; all the Sunday papers will give
scare-headlines to this “ugly incident.”
The N.S.W. Nutmeg Board will spend
£16,000 on a machine to extract juice
from nutmegs. The greatest television and
radio hook-up in American history will
be organised to record the launching of a
U.S. artificial satellite, which will rise to a
height of 71ft. before plunging into a
field. At a Kremlin reception, Khrush-
chev, after downing his 27th vodka, will
crack a joke with the French
Ambassador ; this will be interpreted by a
famous expert on Russian affairs as a
definite sign of an approaching thaw in
the Cold War. An Australian TV-pro-
gramme will feature, all in the one night,
films starring little Mickey Rooney, the
rising young star Marlene Dietrich, Mary
Pickford (“The World’s Sweetheart”)
and Rudolph Valentino.
Aug. : In a fiery speech to Young Com-
munist officials at Nijni-Novgonxl
Khrushchev will threaten France with
total destruction if it makes available on
its metropolitan territory launching-sites
for the rockets of the “warmongering
plutocrats of Wall Street.” A Melbourne
football referee, deciding to increase his
life-assurance, will be told that, as a bad
risk, his policy will have to be “loaded.”
The N.S.W. Nutmeg Board will launch a
£lO,OOO publicity campaign to popularise
the use of nutmeg-flavored lipstick and
face-powders. His film-studio will be
granted as injunction to prevent Elvis
Presley from taking singing-lessons, on
the ground that any improvement in his
voice would threaten his popularity with
teenage audiences. The Kremlin will
order a 10-year Pact of Friendship to be
signed between Albania and Bulgaria;
immediately following the signing the
frontier guards of both the satellities will
be trebled.
Sept.: On a State visit to Yugoslavia,
B. and K. will be lavishly entertained
by President Tito ; greatly strengthened
secret-police will organise the spontaneous
cheering of the Russian leaders by
crowds in gaily-bedecked Belgrade; at a
State dinner reciprocal speeches in praise
of each other will be made by Tito and
Khrushchev, and in a joint statement the
two leaders will declare that the undying
friendship between their peoples and
Governments stems from their common
(Continued on page 57)


POLITICAL POINTS
New Zealand, following the election
of the Nash Labor Government, is going
straightaway into import-licensing again,
apparently regarding exchange-allocation
and other financial measures as being
ineffective. Walter Nash has rightly
rejected currency-devaluation as the
answer to the problem at this stage,
though there is something to be said for
the freeing of a nation’s currency, over
a period, so long as all parties within
the country are aware of what is implied
—which is mainly greater productive
effort if purchasing-power is to be
maintained.
But not many responsible financiers and
economists who had dealings with Nash
during his term as Finance Minister in
previous Labor Governments in N.Z.
have any great faith in his approach to
economic matters. It is probably still
much the same as his electioneering
approach, about which Enzedders who
voted for him are already having second
thoughts, especially on the score of tax
promises.
There is no disputing the fact that N.Z.,
like Australia, is facing a tougher year in
overseas trading through the fall in world
prices. Nash says that overseas reserves
have fallen from £B3 million (N.Z.
currency) to £45 million between October
and December last year. Some observers
say that Labor’s- return to office in itself
had the effect of causing an acceleration in
the outflow of funds, and that part of
the drop is seasonal, anyway.
Australia will suffer a reduction in its
overseas reserves this year as a result
of lower export prices, even though there
was a favorable trade-balance of £57.7
million during the five months to
November 30. In the next seven months
exports are likely to tail-off both in
quantity and value, and a close hold will
no doubt be kept on imports. It is
greatly to be hoped that import-controls
during 1958 will be more intelligently
and expeditiously administered than they
were in 1957.
• • •
New Zealand has a vulnerable economy
in times of depression in prices for land
products. It has not the industrial
resources sufficient to create a fair
balance between the urban and rural
economies, and is more dependent on
prices for butter, cheese, meat and wool
than Australia is. But for the past 15
years it has done well. Before that,
according to Lefoe, of the Reserve Bank,
only the war saved N.Z. from
bankruptcy.
• •
According to the Victorian Chamber of
Manufactures (urging the Federal
Government to improve its publicity
abroad) “Australia is still better known
for its cricketers and tennis-players than
anything else.”' More than for Beer and
Bets, or The Wharfies’ Strike?
• •
In this year of more difficult overseas
trading it would be an advantage if the
Federal Government announced details
of its withholding tax as soon as
possible. The general idea is that a flat
percentage be charged overseas investors
on dividends derived from Australia in
"But it’ll only be during the Water-restrictions , dear .”
place of the present graduated scale. The
withholding system of tax is employed
by the Governments of Canada, U.S.A.,
and South Africa, and is favored by
Governments and investors alike. Any-
thing which investors favor is likely to
attract capital to Australia. Any
system adopted by Australia will not
operate before July 1 next, but details
announced now might attract investment
immediately.
• •
You seldom know who’s who in
politics. The best-known lobbyist in the
Victorian Parliament’s* history was Tom
Walsh, who died suddenly on December
28 when visiting friends. He frequently
represented the Wren interests, and he
had been so long sitting in the chief lobby
that his Irish brogue was possibly the
best-known voice in it. He was called
the 66th Member.
After the Labor split he appeared to be
more a supporter of, and more influential
with, the Barry Labor group than the
A.L.P., although he was, by the nature of
his job, never unfriendly with any party.
All Parliamentarians and officials are
now chuckling over Old Tom’s final
coup: last year he joined the Melbourne
branch of the Liberal party.
• •
Apparently some of those Army-
disposal stores are still selling Army dis-
posals. During 1957-58 revenue by the
Defence Development is put at £3.4
million. It is mainly comprised of “dis-
posals of surplus defence equipment,
rents, etc.”
• •
Encouraged by some outspoken com-
ments from leading scientists, the Pro-
fessional Officers’ Association lodged a
claim for increased salaries for scientists
employed by the Commonwealth with the
Public Service Arbitrator in Melbourne
seeking a minimum increase of £6OO. The
log asks for salaries of £l6OO to £2500.
Generally, Commonwealth salaries for
scientists set the national pattern for
analysts, chemists, research-officers,
physicists, biochemists, geophysicists,
geologists and meteorologists.
• •
Early-morning travellers to work have
had a tough time under the new N.S.W.
railways’ suburban time-table. The usual
4.40 a.m. train from Blacktown has been
reduced to four carriages. All change at
Granville and join the train from Liver-
pool, which is also only four cars, and
already full of passengers. The crowd
changing at Granville have no hope of a
seat, and very little of getting standing-
room. Recently, owing to one of the
usual breakdowns (at Clyde, this time)
some passengers had to hire a taxi to
Lidcombe to get on their way to the city.
This is a case where cutting the trains in
halves in the name of economy seems to
begin far too early in the day.


With their habit of doing everything to
advertise a dictator whom they profess
to regard as their country’s bitterest foe
and a menace to freedom and civilisa-
tion, the United States press has elected
Khrushchev the “man of -the year.”
Man? Isn’t there a more apt word to
describe the savager of Hungary, the
inciter of war and assassination and
discord, the threat of whose evil intent
is felt in every cranny of the civilised
world and whose bouts of intoxication
are a weekly feature of the news?
“Drunkard of the year” might be more
accurate —in terms of vodka, blood and
Violence.
• •
The veteran Professor F. A. Bland,
M.P. for Warringah and chairman of
the Parliamentary Public Accounts Com-
mittee, has been appointed a C.M.G. as
a reward for his services. He deserves
a V.C. for the manner in which he has
shaped up to the public service. But at
75 he is still young enough to have a
chance of winning it.
• •
Malta’s mercurial Premier Mr. Don
Mintoff threatens to secede unless Britain
finds work for the 7000 dockyard
employees who are being put off because
of the reduction of the British capital
Navy. Mintoff doesn’t say who wll
find work for the dock-workers if Malta
breaks away and there is no dockyard.
• •
Cahill’s agents report triumphantly
that “State-lottery revenue for 1957 was
a record”—£l3,4o4,Bo6. There were 350
lotteries drawn —nearly one a day,
including Sundays. Now racing jackpots
have come into fashion with the blessing
of an Administration whose morals with
regard to gambling are about the lowest
in modern history. In these fresh novelties
the odds are stacked against the modest
bettor —the best chance goes to the big-
time gambler with a bookie’s knowledge
of the odds. Which is no doubt how the
Cahills would have it, judging by some
of their associations.
• •
Mr. Arthur Browning, “leviathan”
Sydney fielder, whose heroic joustings in
the ring can always rate more space by an
adoring daily press than the exploits of
any V.C.-winner, refutes utterly the too-
general impression that the poor bookie
has a rind tougher than leather. The
true sensitiveness of Arthur’s soul was
revealed on Saturday at Canterbury races,
after he had collected £8275 from the
jackpot-tote, making his total winnings
from three jackpots £16,238. It appears"
that he was “hurt” by criticisms of his
two previous wins, made on the alleged
grounds that they were at the expense of
the five-bob punter ; so Arthur announced
that he would bet on jackpots no more ;
moreover, he “wasn’t interested in the
money,” but had invested purely to give
the scheme a lift along. No doubt the
selfless Arthur will give his winnings to
some appropriate charity.
From Dixon Street: — ~
Those who looked on Alan Manning, N.S.W.
president and Federal vice-president of the
Democratic Labor Party, as a starry-eyed idealist
are justified by his statements on retirement
from the State presidency. Most of his
colleagues, led by the astute J. T. Kane, are
not Labor men any more than Dr. Evatt —
they are merely careerists of another color.
Other resignations disclose the weird make-up
of the D.L.P. — one retiring Labor man is
KV-S at^r?he%„ B e U
about sectarianism and Kane and the die-
hard Right-wing Grouper element, which
Manning says "destroyed the unity of the
A.L.P. Hitherto the inference was that it
had been destroyed by the Communist infiltra-
tion. But Labor is such a mixed bag of cat-
fights, careerism, Communism and catastrophe
L h bit e mTxed Manning Can,t bC blamed f ° r getUnS
• •
„ „ . , ~
The latest from Egypt is that {vide
“N. Y. Times”) Nasser, who was opposed
to imperialist bases in Egypt, has granted
Russia a base from which to direct and
finance anti-Western movements and
rebellions particularly in Afr ca On
the day the N Y Times pnnt«l this
,t was announced that Marshal Rokos-
sovsky, who has been posing as a Pote
for years, had been brought to Moscow
from the Trans-Caucasian command to
become °X' y us^ fX Westm pis!
U.b.b.R. As usual tne p s
has obligingly adopted Moscow s under-
ground interpretation: “that the transfer
is a sign that Russia now wishes to appear
conciliatory in the Middle East.” The
news from Cairo doesn’t suggest it.
• •
The latest “democracy” among the
dozens in U.N. which are supposedly
, • ,« .
concerned in the fight for freedom and
the abolition of poverty IS Venezuela, the
garish Oil Republic which owns the
««* luxury and
the most squalid poverty and despotism
in the world this side of the Dominican
Republic. As in most of these republics
. ... ~ tt jo* *
whose votes go with the United States in
U.N., the Government stays in power by
force—until the military forces revolt,
as the y did in Caracas the other day.
But this revolt failed because the Army,
apparently, was not joining a show started
b tbe Air p orce
• •
Rea ,. estate a ts in s d haven’t
f > buyers to offer V.G.
P fo * s 0 office-blocks. Rent-
, makes a remunerat ive return
sible in the case of pre . war build .
P and landlord with more than one
can’t pass on the new State land-
P P with Sydney soon , 0
be su PP lied Wl,h offl“-buildings,
ren t-control of city premises can be
reDea led?


PERSONAL ITEMS
New Year Knights:
K.C.M.G.:
Lieut.-General Eric Winslow Woodward,
Governor of N.S.W. since July 31, 1957, former
G.O.C. Eastern Command. Born at Hay
(N.S.W.) in 1899, he went to Duntroon after
leaving Toowoomba Grammar School (Q.), and
from 1925 to 1927 was on loan to the R.A.A.F.
and qualified as a pilot. He completed the Staff
College course at Camberley the year before War
II broke out, and served in the first desert
campaign, in Greece, Syria, and at El Alamein
—successively D.A.Q.M.G., Sixth Division,
A.Q.M.G., Ist Corps, G. 5.0.1, H.Q., A.I.F.
(M.E.), Australian Liaison Officer, G.H.Q.,
M.E.F., and A.A. and Q.M.G., Ninth Division.
He then went to the Northern Territory; Force
as 8.G.5., was D.S.D. L.H.Q., D.A. and
Q.M.G. Morotai Force, and came back to
hold a couple of top administrative appoint-
ments before going to England to attend an
Imperial Defence College course, and, a year
later, to become the Australian Army repre-
sentative in the U.K. D.A.G., A.H.Q., in 1949,
D.C.G.S., A.H.Q:, in 1951, C.B.E. in 1952 (his
D. 5.0., of course, was much earlier), he took-
over Eastern Command in 1953.
Alan James Mansfield, Chief Justice of
Queensland. Born at Indooroopilly (Q.) in
1902, educated at C.E.G.S., Sydney, and Sydney
University. He was a member of the board
of inquiry into Japanese War Crimes, Australian,
representative on the U.N. War Crimes Com-
mission, and later became Chief Australian
Prosecutor on the International • Military
Tribunal Tor the Far East.
K.8.E.:
Major-General George Frederick Wootten,
chairman of the Repatriation Commission. Born
in Sydney in 1893, educated at Duntroon, he was
adjutant of the Ist Bn., on Third and Fifth
Division staffs, and G.S.O. 11, British Armies in
France, in War I. Five times “mentioned” in
that war, he graduated from Camberley in 1920,
commanded a Light Horse regiment (Riverina
Horse) just before War 11, was C.O. of the
2/2nd Bn., Second A.1.F., then commanded
18th Infafltiy Brigade, later the Ninth Division.
C. 1945, C.8.E., 1943, D.S.O. and Bar, E.D.,
D. (U.S.A.). A solicitor of the Supreme
Court of N.S.W., he was appointed chairman
of the Repatriation Commission in 1945.
Roslyn Foster Bowie Philp, Senior Puisne
Judge of the Supreme Court of Queensland.
Born in Sydney in 1895, educated at Brisbane
Grammar, he served with the 12th F.A.8.,
A.1.F., from 1916 to 1918 and was called to the
Bar in 1923.
Stanley Charles Burbury, Chief Justice of
Tasmania. Born in Perth in 1909, educated at
The Hutchins School, Hobart, and at the Uni-
versity of Tasmania, he was Tasmanian Solicitor-
General before he became Chief Justice. Past-
president of Hobart Repertory Theatre Society,
Hobart Film Society, Tasmanian Artists Trust
Fund, former vice-president Hobart Orchestral
Society.
Kt.:
Dr. Herbert Ronald Robinson Grieve.
Educated at Sydney Grammar, graduated from
Sydney University in 1920. Honorary
secretary of the N.S.W. branch of the B.M.A.
from 1948 until 1956, he was a member of the
Legislative Council from 1932 to 1933, and
has been president of the Medical Benefits Fund
of Australia since its inception in 1946.
Major-General Walter Joseph Cawthorn, Aus-
tralian High Commissioner to Pakistan since
1954. Educated at Melbourne High, he served
with the First A.1.F., joined the Indian Army
in 1918, was General Staff (Intell.), War Office,
London, at the outbreak of War 11, and was
head of Inter-Service Intelligence Staff in the
Middle East early in the war. From\ there he
went to India, and his last job in Australia was
as Director of the Joint Intelligence Bureau,
1952-54.
Francis William Rolland, Moderator-General
of the Presbyterian Church of Australia. A
chaplain in France in War I, he was principal
of Geelong College from 1920 to Chair-
man of the Australian Headmasters’ Conference
from 1936 to 1939, and Moderator of the
Presbyterian Church, in Victoria 1937-1938.
Dr. Ralph Wishaw, vice-president of the Royal
Australian College of Surgeons, and honorary
senior physician and senior cardiologist at the
Royal Hobart Hospital.
John Francis Williams, managing-director of
the Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd., Melbourne.
Born at Grafton (N.S.W.), he had his early
journalistic training on The Bulletin’s “Wild
Cat” pages, left to join “Melbourne Punch” in
the early ’twenties, and edited the “Barrier
Miner” at Broken Hill from 1933 to 1936.
From 1937 to 1946 he ran the Brisbane “Courier-
Mail” (then, in part, a Murdoch family-
property), and since the death of his predecessor-
in-office he has added the “Courier-Mail” and
the Brisbane “Telegraph” to the “Herald”
empire, bought the assets of the “Argus” at
their written-down value, and pioneered TV in
Melbourne.
William George Dismore Upjohn, the,
distinguished Melbourne surgeon. Honorary
Surgeon to Inpatients and Clinical Lecturer in
Surgery at the Royal Melbourne Hospital since
1927, he is also an honorary at Melbourne
Royal Children’s Hospital, chairman of the
Consultative Council on Poliomyelitis, chairman
of the Advisory Council of the Hospitals and
Charities Commission. He served in both world
wars. y/
Archibald Richard Park, Lord Mayor of
Hobart. Born at Wallsend (N.S.W.) in 1888, he
was M.H.A. for Franklin (Tas.) from 1949 to
1955, resigned to accept position on the Metro-
politan Transport Trust. President for 20 years
of the Tasmanian Road Transport Association,
past Master Warden of the Marine Board,
State president of Ex-Naval Men’s Association.
• •
“Corio”: J. R. Phillips, who received
his Ph.D. at Melbourne University the
other week, will go to the University of
Western Australia early in the year as
senior lecturer in Mechanical Engineer-
ing. Educated at Geelong High and
Geelong College, he has been engaged for
four years in research-work which
examiners considered was a completely
original theory on the construction of
ploughs and similar earth-moving imple-
ments, leading to an anticipated reduction
in the associated traction. He gained his
doctorate for a thesis on the trailing disk-
plough.
• •
Alec Chisholm: When Sir Thomas
Dunhill died in London recently, at the
age of 81, he was acclaimed for the
surgical skill that caused him to become
a Royal surgeon, and also for his special
work in regard to the thyroid. But,
regrettably, the obituary-producers over-
looked one of his interests that he would
probably have wished them to emphasise.
From his boyhood days on the Murray
near Kerang (Vic.), and afterwards in
Melbourne, Thomas Dunhill had a
marked fondness for the birds of Aus-
tralia, and he extended that affection to
birds elsewhere. I recall that in 1938,
when I chanced to have given an
illustrated chat on Australian wild-life to
a gathering of birdmen in London, Dun-
hill came around chuckling.
“I was much engaged by your films and
slides,” he said, “but even more interested
in the faces of the audience. When these
Englishmen were looking at the motion-
pictures of the lyrebird and bowerbirds
they seemed to be finding difficulty in
believing the evidence of their eyes. It
was all very entertaining.”
Later, I went to Dunhill’s rooms in
Harley Street and there he and a couple
of other specialists put on a show of their
own films, all in color. Starting off with
work among flowers in English gardens,
these surgeon-naturalists had gone to
Finland, and there (although none of
them was precisely young), they had
waded waist-deep in. swamps and
achieved brilliant pictures of waterbirds.
I cherish recollections of that show. It
was a revealing indication of what busy
men could do with an engaging hobby —
and it all stemmed, I gathered, from Tom
Dunhill’s youthful impressions in the
valley of the Murray River.
• •
The recent move-on among top-ranking
police-officers in Westralia has put back
into uniform, with a chief inspector’s
stars, 58-year-old H. R. Pilmer, who has
been head of the C. 1.8. for over four
years. He joined the force in 1923, after
his return from active service with the
51st Battalion A.1.F., and trod the usual
run of country beats before transfer to
Perth. Sleuthing experience has included
three murder investigations, . one by a
native at Moonlight Valley in the Kim-
berleys, one at Kalgoorlie in 1938, and
the third in a military camp at Dandari-
gan. Much of his best work has been
done as detective-sergeant in charge
of Gold Stealing Detection. In
his earlier years he was keenly interested
in flying, and qualified for a civil pilot’s
licence in 1937.
• •
“D.E.”: There was no busier or better-
liked specialist in Macquarie Street,
Sydney, than Dr. Wilfred Evans ; and his
sudden death saddened the Christmas
period for a multitude of patients. They
admired him for his fine qualities of man-
hood as well as his eminent professional
skill. He talked of himself so rarely, and
never for print, that few of them knew
that he was a Gallipoli veteran who
returned with the Military Cross —and with
the conviction that if the evacuation had
been delayed a week or two longer many
of the survivors would not have returned
at all. Two sons will carry on an
honored name ; the elder is a doctor
already, the younger is well on the
way to becoming one.
• •
Arthur McAlister Moir, a compara-
tively new man in Labor politics, has
taken over the portfolio of Mines, in
succession to L. F. Kelly, who succeeds
Westralia’s new Agent-General, E. K.
Hoar, as Minister for Lands and Agricul-
ture. Moir entered the Assembly as
M.L.A. for Boulder in September, 1951,
and took his first upward step, to
Chairman of Committees, in August,
1956.


What Richard St. Barbe Baker (here-
with) doesn’t know about trees seems
hardly worth bothering about, but in at
The Bulletin the other day, in a half-
hour snared between a trip to Canberra
and departure for New Zealand (he was in
Australia, altogether, _ only a matter of
days), the man who started the far-flung
society, “Men of the Trees,” said “We
have hardly touched the fringe of things
in our knowledge of trees.”
In Canberra he noticed English oaks thriv-
ing in our comparatively hot, dry climate. He
considers it dangerous to regard bushfires as
inevitable in Australia. Asked what could be
done about them, he said that some years back
he had suggested that belts of trees faniy
resistant to lire, such as poplars, should be
planted in stiategic fines in iorests both here
and in New Zealand; this had been done, to
some extent, in New Zealand. Even with intro-
duced trees, here, we didn’t mix them enough —•
monoculture was bad, as had been
shown in Austrian pine-forests.
Regarding the influence of trees on
climate, he gave some striking
figures of the amount of water a
big tree could pump into the
atmosphere—some 100 gallons a
day.
Not all authorities, one gathers,
agree with all Baker’s theories.
Pressed, he admits that some of
these—the formation of micro-
climates, for instance —are not
capable of proof at present. But he
says that some accepted scientific
theories are likewise vulnerable: a
bad habit of scientists is to give
a complex process a technical label
and think they have explained it.
Enjoying a talk with him, it is
remarkably hard to disagree with
Richard St. Barbe Baker
about anything. Urbane, silver-
haired, superbly English in
the grand manner, yet with an un-
English absence of self-conscious-
ness ; eloquent, witty and
disconcertingly sincere. Flashing in
conversation from Cambridge
(where he topped the forestry
course) to King Edward’s Horse
(many old comrades in Australia
and N.Z.); a talk with Franklin D.
Roosevelt which influenced U.S.
forestry policy; being near-enough
to broke in New York, where he
wrote his first book; the “black
magic” of nuclear warfare;
cremation —“the wretched people at
Golders Green have to wash their
curtains three times a week” —
then to Russian afforestation
schemes, his Sahara expedition a
few years ago, and the giant tree-
planting programme that derives
from it, and on to Kenya, .where,
as a colonial forester, he began his
life’s work. Rather like interview-
ing quicksilver—each question
provoked an anecdote, and each
anecdote was interesting—but
leaving behind a solid total impression. His
general thesis is that Western, industrialised
Man is rapidly destroying his habitat; and
that it’s later than we think.
• •
M. F. Dixon: Australian anthropolo-
gist Dr. W E. H. (Bill) Stanner, who
made newspaper headlines recently
because of his decision to spend six
months in a lonely cave in the Northern
Territory, is a man of parts. I first met
Stanner just before War 11, when he came
to the A.B.C. with an introduction from
a mutual university friend who thought
he might be able to give some interesting
news-commentaries. Before turning to
the study of anthropology Stanner had
tried his hand at journalism, with only
moderate success; but after a few
months’ experience as news-commentator
(he was one of the' best in my early
war-time panel) he was engaged by Sir
Keith Murdoch as one of a team of
three journalists to run the Department
of Information’s short-wave news-service
from Sydney. W. Macmahon Ball, who
was Murdoch’s right-hand man at the
time, had charge of the short-wave news-
department ; and he in turn asked me to
keep a watchful eye on the Sydney team,
which, in addition to Stanner, comprised
Ken McGill, formerly editor of the
“Newcastle Morning Herald” and a tip-
top journalist, and Rohan Rivett, son of
Sir David Rivett, and now editor-in-chief
of the “Daily News,” Adelaide.
The team worked in the A.B.C. news-
department in Market Street, Sydney.
In addition to preparing the short-wave
bulletins, they read them, and made an
TREES
.. , . . ~, A
excellent job Or it, too. Stanner was parti-
cularly good at the microphone, and
whenever an A. B.C. news-reader was late
. . , ~ , . . , ~ ..
in turning-up, he would take the bulletin
and read it. Later Stanner joined Frank
Forde ' s P era ??. al . Canberra, when
Forde " as Minister for the Army, and
prepared many of his Cabinet submis-
sions. Then the university called again ,
and after several years’ research overseas,
Stanner returned to join the staff of the
National Univ »*sity at Canberra. Last
September he discovered a cache of
aboriginal weapons and implements in a
prehistoric aboriginal dwelling 200. miles
south-west of Darwin, and now, with
two or three native guides as companions,
and a six-months’ supply of tinned-food,
he is spending a lonely existence in a
cave studying his find.
T. A. Miles: As noted in an “Into the
Silence” par. (B. l/l/’5B), W. F. J.
McCann, D. 5.0., M.C., achieved distinc-
tion in civilian life, but a good many of
us will remember him as one of the
old A.l.F.’s finest fighting soldiers.
I first saw Bill McCann when he
staggered out of the front-line at Pozieres
with a severe head-wound. Arthur Black-
burn took-over from him and won the
V.C.; McCann got the 10th Bn.’s first
M.C. He was the best “front-line” com-
pany-commander I have ever seen.
Wounded several times, he always came
back for more.
He landed at Gallipoli on April 25,
1915, with the original 10th Bn. as a
sergeant, and kept boxing-on until he
went home on 1914 leave, just before the
armistice, with the rank of Lieut.-
Colonel. But I think Bill was happiest—
because of the closer contact with the
boys in that position—as a company-com-
mander. The old 10th Bn. produced
some grand soldiers, but none better
than McCann.
• •
“Naturalist”: Latest recipient of the
Royal Geographical Society’s highest
honor in Queensland, the Thompson
Foundation Memorial Medal, is John
Orrell, secretary of the North Queensland
Naturalists’ Club. Member in 1942,
F. in 1949, F.R.G.S. (Lond.) in
1951, and Life Fellow of the Queens-
land branch in 1954, John pleads guilty to
having done everything from.mining at
Mount Isa to growing pineapples at
Cairns, with a little writing for The
Bulletin and geographical research on
the side. Saw service with the C.M.F,
(stalf-sgt.); Army Amenities (captain);
and the U.S.M.M. (engineer warrant-
officer), going with the ammunition-boats
to Calcutta, and then travelled
with troopships from Murmansk
to Nagoya and from New York to
Marseilles and Le Havre. An easygoing
chap with an inquiring mind, he has made
a special study of the life of the explorer
Kennedy—research which has gained him
the coveted “Thompson.” At present
engaged with a regional board survey-
party on the Atherton Tableland, he
spends weekends with his wife and two
children on a four-acre farm at Smith-
field, 10 miles from Cairns.
• •
Into the Silence:
At Rochester (Vic.), at 70, Major-General
George James Rankin, Country-party M.H.R.
for Bendigo (1937-49) and Senator (1950-56).
He joined the Australian Light Horse in 1909,
and by 1918 rose to command of the 4th
Australian Light Horse. In War II he was
G. Second Cavalry Division. From 1951
to 1953 he was chairman of committees in the
Senate.
In Sydney, Mrs. H. W. K. Mowll, wife of
the Primate of Australia. An Englishwoman,
she married Dr. Mowll in China while both
were doing missionary work. She organised
welfare-work for Servicemen in World War 11,
and was a leader in many charitable activities.
In Brisbane, at 80, T. Flood Plunkett, Country-
party member for Albert (1929-50) and for
Darlington (1950-57) in the Queensland House.
He held several high posts on boards and
committees concerned with dairy production.


ABORIGINALITIES
T HAD thought that the last word on
crossing cats with possums (B.
1/1 / ’5B) had been said in a yarn that
y/as going the rounds of the N.T. a year or
two back. I’ll cut it short:
A Melbourne woman anthropologist
who had spent some time in Arnhemland
stopped-in for a spell at one of the Terri-
tory’s larger cattle-stations. The boys
were a little shy of the “lady perfessor”
for a start, but she really knew her job,
and in the fortnight she stayed there the
exchange of questions and information
was quite interesting. Then Old Joe
from the pump at The 30-mile made one
of his rare appearances for rations. He
also had a problem for the “perfessor”:
“ ’Scuse me, ma’am, but out on my
pump there I’ve got a cat and a possum
A LAWSON LINK
THERE was broken by the recent death,
at Petersham, Sydney, of George
William O’Brien one of the few remain-
ing personal links with Henry Lawson
and his Eurunderee.
George O’Brien, Anzac and sergeant of
World War I, was 63, and was bom in
the old Lawson home at Eurunderee. The
O’Brien family occupied that home —
built by old Peter—far longer than the
Lawsons did: from 1882 to 1915, when
Harry O’Brien died. Lawson stayed with
the O’Briens on his infrequent visits to
Eurunderee; but of course that home,
on the site of which stands the Lawson
Memorial, was the very centre of the
Lawson country, and the focal point of
his literary beginnings—e.g., to mention
a few of Lawson’s earlier works, “Golden
Gully,” “His Father’s Mate,” “An Old
Mate of Your Father’s,” “Bill the Ven-
triloquial Rooster,” and, later, “Mount
Buckaroo,” “The Last Shaft,” etc.
Of Lawson’s visits there are only two
of which I have any positive knowledge
—that of 1891, after the collapse of the
Brisbane “Boomerang,” and the one in
1914. There may have been earlier visits,
and certainly there were some between.
During one of these Lawson and John
O’B. (the famous “Curly Jack”) put down
a shaft in the shallower sinking of
Sapling Gully, and got a few penny-
weights of gold. This apparently was
Lawson’s one and only experience of
digging. Curly Jack wanted to convert
the gold into cash —and spend this on
tobacco and lollies at Jimmy MacDonald’s
store (and shanty), but Lawson said, “No,
we’re both staying with your father, and
we’ll put the gold with his.” The correct-
ness of this attitude did not greatly appeal
to Jack. “After that,” he used to say,
“I didn’t think so highly of Lawson.”
It must have been after one of these
between-visits that Lawson wrote that
delightful piece of disillusionment “The
Little World Left Behind.” The O’Brien
boys always declared that the O’Dunn in
this sketch was their father: “The
O’Dunn was still fighting for the grand
object of his life —which was not to be
onneighborly. ‘I don’t want to be on-
neighborly,’ he said, ‘but I’ll be aven wid
some of them yet.’ ” —just as the bitter
feud between the Dunderblitzens and
the Blitzendunders (“it started three
generations ago, over a stray bull”) was
certainly the ill-feeling between certain
members of the Roth and Muller
families.
In the 1891 visit Lawson spent an
evening with my father (who had been
his teacher at the “Old Bark School”).
That must have been very few
weeks before Father’s death in
November. Father, I believe, was
very pleased with the visit and mighty
"So I never take you out, eh !”
proud, too, of the glowing tribute that
Lawson had paid him in “Eurunderee”-
first published in the “Boomerang,” in
August, 1891.
The 1914 visit was arranged, and paid
for, by young Harry O’Brien (“Soldier”).
It was a most successful occasion. So
many of Lawson’s “own people” were
still living; there were still round about
some of “the old mates of your father’s,”
and the “old German farms” on Eurun-
deree Creek were still occupied by the
original families. Later in that year
(1914) Lawson was at Eurunderee with
T. D. Mutch. I don’t know much about
that visit.
The Lawson home and selection were
sold early in the century —1903, I think.
Shortly before this Louisa had come to
Mudgee, greatly excited —so the story
ran—by news of a gold-discovery on
her property. There wasn’t much gold.
Certainly George O’Brien (“Uncle
George”) had found a promising leader
and had got a little gold, but the leader
pinched-out, and the “big reef” is still
waiting for someone to uncover it.
Harry Macks and Harry Cox bought
the selection between them. Both are long
since gone, and the property has changed
hands a number of times since.
In 1922, soon after Lawson’s death,
W. M. Hughes was in Mudgee ; he was
Prime Minister then, and some approach,
it seems, was made to him to interest him
in the Federal Government’s purchase and
preservation of the Lawson home. W.M.
was mildly interested, but went cold
when Harry Macks (rather excitedly)
named a thumping figure as the price of
the home. At least, that’s how the story
ran. Anyway, it was a long time before
the site of the home was bought, and
by then Peter’s house had sat down.
I was back at Eurunderee a few years
ago. A place of mournful interest now.
The “little world” was not merely “left
behind” —it had practically vanished. Of
all the many names to be found in
the Admission Register (so thoughtfully
placed by T. D. Mutch, when Minister,
in the Mitchell Library) only three seemed
to remain—Roth, Bones, Muller. There
may have been others, but I didn’t hear of
them. Certainly there were no O’Briens.
With George William’s death the very
name has vanished entirely.
J.L.T.




I’ve been trying to cross for a year or
two now. But I ain’t had no luck so
far. D’you know what I should do?”
The “perfessor” smiled. “I’m afraid
that's impossible,” she said. “A cat is a
carnivorous animal and a possum is a
marsupial. You can’t possibly cross a
carnivore with a marsupial.”
“Did you say that there possum’s a
marsoople, ma’am?”
“That’s right.”
Old Joe pulled his moustache thought-
fully. “Well that might be your opinion,
ma’am. But personally I don't think it
matters a damn how soople that possum
is if that cat could only catch ’im.”
O. F.
* * * *
“Rory”: The pepper-tree in the town’s -
main street, which has given shade to
horses and idlers over the years and which
has been the subject of nostalgic spasms
by generations of bush-bards, is going
into disfavor. Exudations from it eat
through the duco of cars parked beneath
“You're out-of-step !”
it: also, its roots travel unbelievable dis-
tances, breaking up concrete-paths and
house-foundations; the sticky berries
lodge in gutterings, spoil painted surfaces
and ruin the washing on the line on a
windy day.
• * * *
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: While looking at the
agricultural potential of the Middle and
Lower Sepik, which hold about 50 villages
with a total population of about 14,000, a
patrol has also looked into the sort of
scran favored there. Sago comprised
nearly half the diet, supplemented by
yams, sweet-potatoes, coconuts, bananas,
taro, beans, tomato, cabbage, pumpkin
and some green bush-plants. Protein
comes from pork, fish, poultry, turtle,
crocodile-meat, wildfowl, game and
insects. It seems a great deal better than a
good many Asians manage to get.
* * * *
“Batlet”: In N.Q., where flying-foxes
travelling in aerial streams might take
an hour or more to pass a given spot,
oranges used not to be included in their
diet. Wild figs, Burdekin-plums, other
native fruits were on their menu, while
of cultivated fruit they favored ripe
bananas and mangoes on the turn.
Pawpaws, too ; but they had a sense of
decency with these —they would leave
the skin hanging on the tree while the
inside was raked out as neatly as one
might clean out an egg. Then, in 1936,
they suddenly developed a taste for
oranges. It wasn’t a local whim, either —
at the same time they started hoeing into
oranges practically all over the State,
treating the juicy fruit exactly as they
did pawpaws: leaving the bare shell
hanging.
* * * «
“Warick”: If “Rory” (B. 18/12/'57)
gets a hive of bees he won't have any
kindly feelings for the praying-mantis. I
watched one of those devout insects:
there was one snatch, and one grab, and
the prayer’s jaws just gorged the bee to
extinction; after which the satisfied
mantis returned to its attitude of piety—
and thanksgiving.
* * * *
“Gravefsnatcher”: A night-bird that
stays immobile even under the threat of
attack isn’t stupefied by daylight—it’s
obeying an instinct which has saved and
served its species for hundreds of thou-
sands of years. Day-birds, which are on
the alert during all the time their enemies
can see them, can sleep at night sheltered
against the trunk of a tree and be reason-
ably safe. A sleeping night-bird replaces
the cover of darkness with the cloak of
camouflage, knows it’s effective 90 per
cent, of the time, and trusts it completely.
The bloke who spots a frogmouth may
think the system has broken down, but
he doesn’t know about the dozens he’s
walked past, and almost any bush-walker
must have almost trodden on a bird —say,
a spotted-nightjar or a curlew —without
seeing it, simply because the bird trusted
its camouflage. I’ve only once seen a
nesting curlew, and then I nearly stepped
on it as it squatted on the ground with
its neck stretched straight out like a
stick ; and it’s on record that a curlew has
permitted itself to be picked up and has
remained stiff and motionless in its
captor’s hands. But it was far from
stupefied. It was merely betting on a
camouflage that isn’t far short of perfect.
* * * *
“Baksac”: The black swan, exclusively
Australian, our first avian native seen in
Europe, and one of the most handsome
and harmless of all our birds, is to be
declared a noxious creature —if a certain
faction has its way. The bird’s crime:
it maybe eats some water-grasses and
vegetation which fish also eat, thereby
allegedly causing a limitation of river-
fishermen’s sport! Gun-sportsmen —if
the move succeeds in getting the black
swan removed from the protected list-
should have a good case to get sheep
“declared,” as they could cause a shortage
of gun-fodder by eating the rabbits out.
OFF-SHEARS
Horizons bridge to rusty, dusty morning;
The shorn sheep still, a pastoral frieze ;
But hurry is in the holding-paddock,
hurry,
And the crows take a tally in the trees.
A spate of salmon, a flow of thought.
This motionless four thousand held
By our wills, five dogs and a cranky gate.
(Steer my sheep wide, drover,
Wide of nesting plover.)
Now polarised ’twixt home and here
Each lifted head is telling
That home is east of south,
That certain there,
A curlew or a plover’s cry is “Water !”
Where sweet-sour taste of saltbush tangs
the air.
(Walk my sheep well, drover,
Into noontide cover.)
Now hurry swallows thirst, now crippled
lambs
Jump from the tinker into the stream of
life
That the old drover sees is running true,
Though the young dog has the weaners
fairly boxed,
Though the old ewes have the new boy
spent and foxed,
Feeding sidelong as he nags them like a
shrew.
(Hold for toilers, drover,
Till they drift through bluebush cover.)
Downwind a lone, blind wether cannot
wait,
Hanging on the water,
To join remembered cries and live again
As the earth spins to night under running
feet.
Young wife, get up and comb your hair,
The sheep are home and droving’s over.
(Count my sheep, good Drover,
Till the dream of life be over.)
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


WE have three magpies—not tame, but
just regular visitors. Star turn is for
No. 1 to hang by his beak from a leaf
of a small wattle-tree, feet down, wings
folded, like a gallows-bird. No. 2 then
swings from No. l’s tail, combined
weight usually pulling the leaf adrift.
No. 3, standing by on the ground like a
good rover, joins the scrum for the leaf-
trophy. Tiring of this, a couple shape-up
beak to beak, chattering for seconds
before one of them suddenly ducks under
his mate’s guard, grabs his leg, spills and
scrags the opposition. Only one of them
uses this leg attack, but the others never
seem to wake up to his strategy.—“Geep.”
¥ V * *
“Myall”: A new flourmill being
erected at Dalby, on the Darling Downs
(Q.), at a cost of £lOO,OOO, will be the
first “flat” mill to be built in Australia.
Reason for ' it is that the continual
movement of the heavy black soil causes
buildings of two or more stories to crack ;
so the new mill will be of one floor
only. The pneumatic handling of grain
eliminates the elevator - and - gravity
method used in conventional mills. The
mill will be in two sections, each turning
out flour at the rate of a couple of tons
an hour. Later the mill will supply
stock-foods, a big boon to the far west.
* * » *
“Mackville”: Looking over the piggery
I was mystified by the set-up. A sort of
lane ran past half-a-dozen sties, each sty
containing nothing but a food-trough.
The only entrance seemed to be through
a gap between two palings. The owner
explained with all an inventor’s pride:
“The gap in each sty gets bigger as you
go down the lane. I fill all the troughs
.and let the pigs into the lane. They all
rush to the first sty, but only the smallest
can get in ; so the rest charge on to the
next, and so on. The result is that they
automatically grade ’emselves out, and
continue to grade themselves as they grow
bigger. And I know that they’re all
getting their fair whack without the
big-’uns gobbling all the little-’uns’
share.”
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: Birds can live through
a very cold night because they fluff-out
their feathers, thus making the down a
more efficient insulator ; but there is a
limit to what they can withstand. I recall
an early spring in S.A. when a sudden
change brought icy rain with a southerly.
Sunrise next morning showed a light fall
of snow on the summits of the highest
hills. Soon the sky was clear, the air
calm and the direct sunshine hot, but
there was a strange chill in the shade —
a great mass of polar air from the Ant-
arctic was now stationary. That night
came a record frost which did immense
damage in the Murray irrigation-settle-
ments. Driving to Adelaide early next
morning I saw galahs, parrots and miners
under the higher mallees, frozen as hard
as lumps of road-metal. The only time I
ever saw a heavier bird-mortality was
on the morning after that day of terrible
“I Wouldn't do much more to it."
memory, Black Friday, January 13, 1939.
From around one stock-trough I collected
over 80 dead parrots, killed by the
opposite extreme —a shade-temperature
of 118 deg., and a northerly gale blowing
straight out of Tophet.
* * * *
“Bo”: “H.C.B.’s” mate, whose
Christmas-bush was choked to death by
the iron-filings he had been misguidedly
advised to dig around its roots, can get
better results in a much easier way in his
next attempt to cultivate Ceratopetalum
gummiferum. It is the iron content in
the soil which gives to the blooms the
rich red color so desired. Powdered iron-
sulphate is the most assimilable form, and
this should be scattered around the roots
and dug in (a handful is enough each
year) in September. Failure to keep
plenty of water up to the bush in
October and November may result in the
bloom falling.
* * *
“Postie”: Watched two Italians in con-
versation and observed the action of their
hands, arms and shoulders. Words fairly
exploded from one of them. Every
phrase and often words were accentuated
by the open palm patting the bar or
closed fist thumping it. Index-finger held
up and then brought down in a
sweeping motion; both hands held
out, palms facing upwards and shoulders
shrugged, accompanied by a shaking of
the head. Index-finger tapped on friend’s
arm, fist closed and bunlped slowly on
own chest; left hand open and laid over
heart with right hand moving in small
circles. Then there was a combina-
tion of these movements in quick
succession: fist thumped on the
bar, on the chest and then a sweep-
ing motion of the right hand in a gesture
of dismissal. As my mate said, if you cut
these fellows’ hands off they’d suffocate.
* * * *
“Eureka”: “Met some lousy graziers
in me day,” said Monaro Mick, “but the
champeen was the bloke out Yass way
who went round robbin’ the birds of the
wool they’d helped ’emselves to f’r linin’
their nests.”
* * * *
“Kelms”: A pair of scarlet robins
having built their nest —or, at least, she
did, because he was too busy whistling—
they are now wearing themselves to a
frazzle feeding a young bronze cuckoo
which already is bigger than the two of
them put together. They’ll feed it, or
die trying, because Nature, which
equipped them with outsize hearts, left
them short in intelligence. I can see only
one explanation. Nature, which doesn’t
give a hoot for the individual, may be
trying to introduce a little savvy into the
species by weeding-out those that are
silly enough to be imposed on.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
CAUTIOUSLY SELECTIVE
A YEAR ago The Bulletin
forecast a “vigorously
selective” beginning to share-
market operations in 1957.
That forecast was amply borne
out by events. As the year
advanced selection of top
stocks became marked, and
they were supported with vigor
—in some cases with almost
unaccountable vigor.
In spite of two severe shak-
ings in the market in the final
quarter of the year, 1957 ended
with buoyant prices for front-
liners, and 1958 has opened
in the same mood.
Support for second-liners is
much more varied, and is,
indeed, the truer pointer to
economic conditions. It is the
uncertainty surrounding indus-
tries which are not monopolies
or near-monopolies which has
diverted support in such
volume to front-rank stocks.
That, plus the almost routine
support of staff - provident
funds, fixed-trusts, insurance
and assurance companies, etc.,
has been the reason why the
principal investment equities
have become also the chief
speculative counters in the
industrial section.
The present year has begun,
speaking in terms of the
economy generally, in uncer-
tain conditions. Throughout
the world trade is more com-
petitive, and nearly all Aus-
tralian exports have suffered
a fall in prices. Our export
position threatens to be worse
in the present (closing) half
of the current financial year.
(The last half has been no
guide to the true position of
overseas trade.) In New
Zealand the situation is such
that the quota system of
import-control is being reintro-
duced by the new Labor
Government.
Within Australia there is a
big backlog of capital works
needing to be carried out, and
this will remain a steadying
influence in the demand sector
of the economy. But the
shrinkage in opr export receipts
will make capital and material
resources more difficult to
obtain, and whilst some
central-bank and other reserves
have been built-up out of the
comparative prosperity of the
past year, release of these
reserves in the form of bank-
credit would take place in a
cautious manner, having regard
to inflationary conditions that
are still with us.
Restriction of imports
through falling overseas
revenue and funds will have
inflationary possibilities within
the Commonwealth, while at
the same time making Aus-
tralian markets more secure
for some of our own manufac-
turers. It would appear that
extreme competition from
Japanese and other overseas
competitors need hardly be
feared by efficient Australian
industries in view of the possi-
bility of further general restric-
tion of imports if trade con-
tinues along the lines already
apparent.
“And furthermore , Evans , see that you live up to those
New Year resolutions I made for you."
With capital in short supply,
and the probability of the
supply getting even shorter,
there seems to be no sound
reason for expecting money to
get cheaper if supply-and-
demand factors in the money
market are allowed to prevail.
There may be variations in the
demand for different types of
security, with, say, some swing
from equities to fixed-interest
stocks, but the overall picture
is one of scarcer money in this
new year.
For the sharemarket it looks
like being a spotty new year.
Away from the top-line stocks
(some of which, too, are due
for a fall under normal market
conditions), buyers will most
likely be cautiously selective,
in the knowledge that
industries represented by the
second-line stocks are usually
competitive within Australia,
and that competition among
Australian manufacturers and
traders is more likely to show
itself in the results of second-
line stocks than in front-liners.
But the business which
demonstrates itself to be mak-
ing good under prevailing
conditions, regardless of com-
petition or economic quietness,
is still bound to catch the eye
of the investor with a taste
for a “good thing.” The share-
market in Australia still has a
strong following, even though
the record in the mining sec-
tion has been disastrous to the
uninitiated speculator over the
past four years.
John Fairfax, Ltd.
TRACED with increasing news-
A print prices, higher ship-
ping charges and ever-
increasing wages and salaries,
the Fairfax organisation last
term decided to meet the posi-
tion by a lift of a penny in
the price of its daily papers
(to 5d.) and to raise its advertis-
ing rates. Thus, while some of
the publications showed a
decline in circulation, and
nearly all in volume of adver-
tising, the higher charges, with
the aid of an integration of
activities of the subsidiaries at
Broadway, had the effect of
more than correcting the drift,
and producing an increased rate
of profit for the year.
Allowing £230,687 for depre-
ciation and £300,896 for taxa-
tion, consolidated net profit,
after provision of £103,580 for
dividends payable to outside
pref.-shareholders of Asso-
ciated Newspapers, Ltd., was
£524,873 (13.1 p.c. on capital),
compared with £265,590 in the
preceding year, when only nine
months’ figures for Associated
Newspapers were included.
The dividend to ord.-share-
holders in John Fairfax, Ltd.,
was raised to p.c., against
a rate of 6+ p.c. in the preceding
period.
John Fairfax, Ltd., controls
John Fairfax and Sons, Ltd.,
and the ord. capital of Asso-
ciated Newspapers, Lt d.
Through one or other of these
subsidiaries it owns 35 p.c. of
the shares in prosperous Aus-
tralian Newsprint Mills, Ltd.,
51 p.c. of the shares in not-yet-
so - prosperous Amalgamated
Television Services Pty., Ltd.,
and 14 p.c. of Broadcasting
Station 2GB Pty., Ltd.
Publications are the “Sydney
Morning Herald” (daily), “The
Sun” (afternoon daily), “The
Sun-Herald” (Sunday), “The
Australian Financial Review”
(weekly), “Woman’s Day,”
(weekly), “Pix” (weekly),
“People” (fortnightly) “Radio,
Television and Hobbies”
(monthly). And, since the close
of accounts, there has been the
addition of “Crowd,” a weekly
competitor to Consolidated’s
“Weekend.”
“Sales of all publications
have been fairly well main-
tained,” reported chairman
Warwick Fairfax in the annual
report. Some publications
recorded a drop in circulation,
but the fall was not substantial.
Two minor publications were
suspended, and during the
term “Woman’s Day” was
bought and amalgamated with
“Woman,” which had been
showing disappointing results.
All publications in existence
at the end of the year were
operating profitably except
“Woman’s Day,” which is in
direct competition with Frank
Packer’s very successful
“Women’s Weekly.” “A con-
siderable sum has been spent
in developing the enlarged
amalgamated ‘Woman’s Day,’ ”
the Fairfax board reports, “and
these efforts are continuing.”
Both “Woman’s Day” and its
competitor are sold for nine-
pence, whereas the rise in price
of daily papers suggests that
a shilling would not be over-
doing it. But the rival organisa-
tions appear to have locked
horns in a life-and-death
struggle on the woman’s-paper
issue.
The flotation of John Fair-
fax, Ltd., as a public co. m
April, 1956, followed shortly-
after the transfer of produc-
tion of both the “Herald” and
“The Sun” to Broadway. The
old “Herald” city building was
sold for £1,500,000 and “The
Sun” building for £1,100,000


Cap # r«
Queensland
★
\
N£W SOUTH WALES
rA\/
VICTORIA
*
"From
Cape York
to
Portland"-
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate : E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Norman J. Carson,
C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton. General Manager:
John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams. Resident Officer
for Northern Victoria and the Kiverina: S. L. G. MacDonald,
Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman) •
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman)’
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.; Bertram
J. F. Wright, M.8.E.; R. A. Irish; Duncan N. Mathieson.
Manager: A. B. Tilemann. Assistant Manager: A. G. w".
Dent. Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird. District Repre-
sentative for Newcastle: H B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Chairman);
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon;
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba,
Cliarleville.
Rockhampton and
UT23
The new building at Broadway
was financed by the A.M.P.
Society to the extent of
£2,500,000 and a rental is
payable to the A.M.P. Any
additional capital cost is to be
met by the Fairfax group. At
June 30 last, the equity of the
group in freehold properties
(including Rosebery) was valued
at £1,679,180, compared with
£1,224,649 a year earlier. Only
minor items then remained to
be completed at Broadway.
Plant and machinery rose a
net £79,145 to £2,843,349
during the term. One of the
co.’s problems is to keep all
this plant, and the permanent
staff which goes with it, fully
occupied. This applies particu-
larly to the rotogravure section.
Paid capital of the holding
co. is £4 million, all in £1
ords. There is £225,377 of
reserves, and £1,506,282 of out-
side interests. Goodwill on
consolidation amounts to
£1,511,775. Apart from the
freeholds and plant previously
mentioned there were stocks,
£2,719,533; debtors, £2,320,120;
cash, £47,363 ; advances to
employees, £27,159.
Investments at £1,170,822
rose £366,698 during the year
mainly because of the comple-
tion of calls on shares in Amal-
gamated Television Services
Pty. and the taking-up of a
further 340,000 shares in that
co. which at balance-date weie
paid-up to 12s. a share. The
shareholding in Radio 2UE was
disposed of during the year at
a capital profit.
The outside debt includes
£1,500,000 of 6 p.c. debentures,
£600,000 of p.c. debentures,
£211,311 of other secured and
partly secured debts, overdraft
of £2,280,876, sundry creditors
of £1,528,244, provision for
tax of £307,211, and final div.
£160,000.
The financial position of the
John Fairfax group is one in
which liabilities, secured and
unsecured, are high in relation
to shareholders’ tangible funds
as disclosed in the consolidated
balance-sheet. And that not-
withstanding the fact that the
group is living, under its
arrangement with the A.M.P.,
in partly rented premises. But,
deducting long-term liabilities,
current liabilities are more than
covered by current assets.
“The Sydney Morning
Herald” occupies a strong
position in the State because
of its classified advertising,
its more regular record of
events (including s.-p. informa-
tion) than its contemporaries
and its comprehensive cover
(though in recent years some
of its comprehensive character
has been sacrificed to meet the
demand of the reader who asks
for headlines instead of
factual details). But it and
“The Sun,” as well as the other
publications, face eternal com-
petition, and of recent years
this has developed into a clash
of personalities not always
based on economic common-
sense.
For that reason, and because
of the ever-increasing problems
of newspaper - production
throughout the world, the next
few years at Broadway seem
likely to be of consolidation
rather than generosity in
dividend-distribution.
The £1 ord. shares at 245. 3d.
yield 6.3 p.c. on a p.c. div,
basis.
Bradford Cotton Notes
AN issue of £1 million in
registered unsecured notes
by Bradford Cotton Mills,
Ltd., should be attractive to
those investors who seek a
comparatively high yield from
a fixed-interest security.
The rate offered is 8 p.c.,
and the notes are redeemable
at par in 1966, or at £lO2 per
£lOO note, at the co.’s option,
in 1964, or at £lOl in 1965.
The security for the notes is
to be seen in this comparison
ol the balance-sheet figures of
the Bradford group over the
past two years:
Parent and Wholly-owxed
Subsidiaries.
1956. 1957.
Paid Capital.. £3,045,431 £3,061,961
Reserves . . 2,154,181 2,182,131
Depreciation
reserve .. 2,281,178 2,532,527
Mortgage loan 1,050,000 1,025,000
Overdraft . . 1,157,814 1,176,697
Creditors .. 1,079,966 1,478,31 S
Staff fund . . 35,127 90,670*
Tax reserve.. 381,072 384,785 f
Final div. . . 185,830 187,399
£11,370,599 £12,119,488
Freeholds ... 1,837,971 1,846,686
Leaseholds . . 135,793 141,561
Investments.. 490,758 453,258
Plant .. 5,194,908 5,356,903
Stock • .. 2,361,677 2,816,185
Debtors . . 1,346,629 1,502,032
Intangibles . . 2,863 2,863
£11,370,599 £12,119,488
* Long-service provision ( £44,000) in-
cluded 1957. f Includes unspecified
contingencies.
Whilst the noteholders rank
after secured creditors for
return of their money, there is
visibly over £5 million of
shareholders’ funds to add to
their backing, and every
evidence that book-values are
conservative.
Last term, after providing
for depreciation and taxation,
net earnings of Bradford and
its subsidiaries were £488,245.
Interest on the notes will
call for £BO,OOO, and there will
be taxation advantages to the
company.
Of the note-issue half will
be available for subscription by
ordinary and preference share-
l 1 1 e X
A ~] le rs Bradford Cotton
JViiils. J. B. Were and Son have
underwritten the issue.
Oil Retrospect for 1957
[From l. Owen]
pXPLORATION for oil on
the Australian mainland
* nd . ln ' be J isl “ ds
dUrmB 1957 mUSt , be descr ', bed
as even more disappointing
than the results of the 1956
operations.
Wapet, drilling in Western


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established, 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman! F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman'-.
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M DOUGLuSS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Brandies in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
Australia, has curtailed its
programme rather drastically,
but most companies would
have ceased work.
Its first failure of the year
was Dirk Hartog No. 17 b,
which was spudded-in on
February 18, after the loss of
17a borehole. After reaching
4998 ft. on May 11, it was
plugged back to be used as a
pastoral water-well. Slight
“i told you not to open the porthole , madam!"
fluorescence was noted between
2687 ft. and 2701 ft., and between
3290 ft. and 3295 ft., but tests
revealed nothing of commercial
value.
That the Birdrong sandstone
(struck around 2180 ft.) gave
no oil or gas is not surprising
in view of past experience. It
seems a pity, however, to have
abandoned the hole without
probing the deeper strata, even
if that meant bringing in a
more powerful rig than the one
used.
Had the time and money
spent in sinking sixteen shallow
boreholes with the object of
defining—in my opinion, quite
unnecessarily a post-Creta-
ceous structural “high,” which
probably has little significance
at depth, been used for a
deeper well the tale might have
been a very different one.
The next rebuff was Rough
Range No. 10 well, located only
750 ft. north-east of the
“discovery” well, No. 1. This
bore gave only showings of
oil at the Birdrong sandstone
horizon (3654ft.-3664ft.), which
was encountered at an un-
expectedly great depth. A
drill-stem test recovered only
some salt-water holding about
2 per cent, of oil.
Still further north-east, the
Yanrey bore —which appears to
have been chosen on geo-
physical anomalies resulting
from a buried topographical
“high,” but taken to mark a
stratigraphical “high”—encoun-
tered metamorphic basement
rock at 1395 ft.
The next well to be drilled
near Exmouth Gulf was Lear-
month No. 1, located 15
miles almost due north of
Rough Range No. 1. In some
particulars this site conforms
to suggestions so often made
in these pages ; it is away from
any surface anticlinal axis, and
there is a little (far too little)
westing from Rough Range 1.
The meagre information
released with reference to the
drilling-results indicates that
the Birdrong sandstone is cut
out in this borehole, thus adding
to the evidence published in
pre-Wapet reports on outcrop
studies and water-wells, that
this bed was deposited on a
sculptured landscape in the
Exmouth Gulf area. Here
again it is possible that a pre-
Cretaceous topographical high
has been misinterpreted as
structural. Learmonth No. 1
well reached 6155 ft. at the end
of the year, after having
recorded insignificant shows of
gas between 4885 ft. and 4985 ft.
and between 6140 ft. and 6144 ft.
In the Samphire Marsh
area, preparations are being
made to sink a deep well with
a National 100 rig. It is hoped,
on this location, to pierce
potentially oil-bearing forma-
tions not reached by Grant
Range No. 1 well (12,915 ft.)
nor Fraser River No. 1 well
(10,144 ft.) in this region.
Apart from Wape t ’ s
courageous endeavors, little
work of importance in the
discovery of indigenous
petroleum on the mainland has
been undertaken.
• In the Kimberleys of W.A.,
another company was drilling
at Sisters’ Plateau at the start
of 1957. “Live” oil was
reported at 8896 ft. in this bore,
but the hole was abandoned at
9825 ft. early in June.
In S.A., an organisation has
encountered shows of oil, near
the Cambrian unconformity,
in several shallow wells near
Wilkatana, but there has been
no indication of anything
approaching commercial pro-
duction. The same group is
now preparing to test fringe-
structures of the Great Artesian
Basin near the S.A.-Queensland
border.
In Victoria, all attempts to
strike worth-while oil down to
the base of the Jurassic have
been fruitless, and the major
operators stopped all work
early in December.
In N.S.W., Dural No. 1 well
continued sporadic drilling,
but the hole was abandoned,
without attaining any significant
result, in mid-August at 5203 ft.
in strata of an undisclosed
nature. Dural No. 2 well was
spudded-in, a mile to the west,
in September ; it had reached
2740 ft. at the end of the year.
Shallow structural bores are
stated to have defined an anti-
clinal structure at Morrisset.
At Camden and Douglas Park,
gas has been struck at shallow
depths ; this, however, was to
be anticipated, as coal-measures
underlie the bore-sites.
Structural boring has been
carried out, also, in southern
Queensland. In central Queens-
land, a well on the Arcadia
structure, described as “No. 7,”
was spudded-in during May and
reported slight shows of gas
between 2919 ft. and 2951 ft.
and was abandoned at 3280 ft.
in July. In the Carpentaria
district of North Queensland,
Wyaaba No. 1 well was stopped
at 2822 ft. after striking base-
ment at 2758 ft. wit hout
encountering any oil or gas.
In Papua, following the
piercing of a high-pressure gas-
zone in 1956 in Kuru No. 1
well, Kuru No. 2 was deepened
from 4564 ft. to 7305 ft., at which
depth its abandonment was
considered advisable owing to
continuous cavings. Kuru No.
3 has been sited a little over
half-a-mile from Kuru wells
Nos. 1 and 2. This location is
considered a worth-while risk.
Drilling operations at Bari-
kewa have continued through-
out the year. The laiest
reported depth is 8025 ft.
The Puri well, located 34
miles east of Kuru, was
spudded-in on October 29.
Latest reported depth is 1595 ft.
It is of interest to note that the
Puri, Kuru and Barikewa wells
are all on a line running
approximately east-west.
Komewu No. 1 well, near the
Aworra River, was spudded-in
on April 10 and abandoned at
6393 ft. in October. It entered
basement rocks at 6135 ft. but
struck no oil or gas. Komewu
2 was spudded-in on November
30. The latest reported depth
is 1800 ft.
The • southernmost loca-
tion, Morehead No. 1, was
abandoned, after the loss of
drilling-tools, at 8087 ft. in
January. Seismic evidence
indicated that it was closely
approaching basement
In Portuguese Timor, Aliam-
bata No. 1 well was spudded-
in on October 12. It is located
in a seepage area. Apart from
some showings of oil above
390 ft., the well has been dry
and has even lost circulation.
Latest reported depth is 2728 ft.
in limestone.
Wheat-production
The N.Z. Council of the
Federation of Bakers and
Pastrycooks wants the
Government to subsidise the
production of wheat. It con-
siders that N.Z. has for too
many years been dependent on
other countries for its wheat.
It points out that little more
than two-million bushels of
wheat are being produced in
N.Z. out of a total demand of
13-million bushels a year.




Missing Friend
TO JESSIE GADT) (nee, JESSIE MOR-
IIISON) formerly of Williamstown in
the State of Victoria but now of parti
unknown. —-TAKE NOTICE that your
husband MAURICE GADD has com-
menced divorce proceedings against you
on the ground of desertion during three
years and upwards Unless you enter an
appearance in the Office of the Prothono-
tary of the Supreme Court at Mel-
bourne on or before the 15th day of
February 1958 and an answer in the
said office on or before the 21st
day of February 1958 the suit may pro-
ceed in your absence.—FOWf.Eß &
HICK, 31 Queen Street, Melbourne,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO HENRY GLADSTONE KING late of
Wollongong.—TAKE NOTICE that
IRENE MAY KING has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1261 of 1955 on the
grounds of d n sertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 10th day of March 1958 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. MADDOCKS COHEN &
MAGUIRE, Solicitors, 38 Martin Place,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
‘The Shifting Heart"
Making its second stand at
Sydney Elizabethan on New
Year’s Night, Richard Beynon's
“The Shifting Heart” has been
vastly improved, in the opinion
of most next-day critics, and
to the present reviewer, seeing
it for the first time, it seemed
a very good little play indeed.
To the playgoer dubious of
the play-with-a-message, this
play about young Gino, who
is refused admittance to a slum
dance-hall on Christmas Eve
because he is a Dago, comes
home for a knife to
enforco his entry-ticket, and
is kicked to death, so
that his married sister is in
two minds about bringing
another little Australian-Italian
into the world on Christmas
morning, still offers from
beginning to end the. most
poetic Australian backyard
you could imagine outside
Sali Herman.
As the curtain rises on act
after act, one discovers new
beauties in it; the trellis beyond
the ragged fence shading the
next-door veranda, the V-points
to the panels of the door of the
outside w.c. of the neighbors
on the other side, the exquisite
propriety of the silhouetted
chimney-pots and telephone-
pole against the one small bit
of skyline, the bed on the
back - veranda, the back-
veianda itself, with its tin roof
and bent guttering, and, most
poetic of all, reviving God-
knows-what memories of one’s
grandfather’s place at Balmain,
the quiet, mysterious path down
the side betw-een the two
cottages which everyone uses
instead of the front door, which
duly ushers in the dying Gino,
the inquiring plainclothes
policeman, and the anguished
brother-in-law. . .
Such a set gives the actors
something to live up to ; Ne w a
Carr-Glyn’s good-neighbor, if
a little hearty, is Well in keeping,
and Keith Jarvis as her little
husband’on his annual drunk
throwing himself fiercely at so
saturnine a Tybalt as Frank
Waters is not merely comic but
convincing ; though about the
finest pieces of writing, acting
and production in the play are
in the scenes between Waters
as the junk-collector brother-in-
law and Gordon Glenwright as
the policeman ; their dawning
respect for each other, and their
Australian inability to show it
except in words that in an
English play would start an
all-in yike, have surely never
been so well done. And beau-
tiful, beautiful Dinah Shearing,
who, as the Italo-Australian girl
who is going to have a baby,
would be at home in any back-
yard anywhere, gives so
restrained a performance that
her raging and clawing at
veranda-posts that closes the
second act and almost snaps-off
the play seems' even more
natural while even more shock-
ing—the way she walked, etc.,
one’s wife said thoughtfully,
were very convincing evidence
of her condition.
Which leaves Poppa and
Momma and Gino Bianchi
quite foreign to the setting—
and of course that is what the
play is about: Beynon an
excellent gay, faunlike and
intense young Italian; Tom
Farley charming as the aimless
old man and magnificent when
he comes in to announce
without words his son's death,
while it was almost impossible
to believe that Momma was
Lyndall Barbour.
The play’s difficulty, not to
say weakness, is to go on after
the tremendous second act, and
Beynon doesn’t lessen his
hazards by turning his com-
plete third act into an effort
to make Frank Waters cry—
it is as if you tried to get
Tybalt to kiss Mercutio . . .
never mind ; the play has much
more in it than its more obvious
message, and even there, it may
sound for a lot of people the
horn that made Baudelaire
think o£ “sailors forgotten on
an island, of captives, of the
vanquished . . . and many
others also.”
*\+ ♦♦♦
Music of 1957
During 1957 the A.8.C.,
heading the entrepreneur busi-
ness in Australia, celebrated the
25th anniversary of its forma-
tion and the 21st anniversary
of its orchestral subscription-
concerts and celebrity concerts.
It marked the occasion with a
line-up of artists that included
some front-rank virtuosi.
There was Claudio Arrau,
the Chilean pianist, revisiting
after a 10-year absence, and
generally restricting his pro-
grammes to the great classical
works. Julius Katchen, the 30-
year-old American also making
his second tour, was another
who made music of the 18th
and 19th centuries the chief
concern of his technical
brilliance and mature inter-
pretative sense.
Italian Carlo Bussotti, asso-
ciate to violinist Ruggiero Ricci,
made orchestral appearances
and proved to be a competent
Mozart-concerto man.
Two returned Australian
pianists were also engaged by
the A.B.C. Leonard Hunger-
ford, after 12 years abroad,
impressed with his all-round
playing over a wide repertoire,
but Valda Aveling didn’t show
to the best advantage in her
playing of the Khachaturian
Concerto.
Ricci, the young Italian-
American violinist, showed
facile command of a tone com-
parable with that of Heifetz,
Stern or Menuhin ; and
Ricardo Odnoposoff, making
his second A.B.C. tour, gave his
Strad. and his Guadignini some
good work-outs.
Recital-singers included Joan
Hammond, with one richly
lyrical concert ; American
soprano Leontyne Price, who
showed her versatility over a
wide range of classical and
contemporary song, including
groups of spirituals; English
tenor Richard Lewis, who
mixed some worth - while
material with some second-rate
English art-songs ; and Welsh
baritone Thomas L. Thomas,
an interpreter par excellence of
rare and beautiful Welsh folk-
songs.
Nicolai Malko continued to
pilot the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra through works old
and new, and kept his
phenomenal memory exercised
by going through at least 20
major works without looking
at a note.
Guest-conductors included
the Spaniard Enrique Jorda, un-
spectacular but sound ; and
Efrem Kurtz (last here 28 years
ago with Pavlova), a musician
of sensitiveness and penetration.
The Musica Viva Society con-
tinued to present the best over-
seas chamber-music ensembles.
It imported for Commonwealth-
wide tours the French Parrenin
and the Czech Smetana
Quartets, and notably artistic
were the concerts they gave.
A French brother-and-sister
team, Guy and Monique Fallot,
wrought music of charming
intimacy.
Musica Viva also encouraged
local ensembles. The recitals
given by violinist Brenton
Langbein and pianist Maureen
Jones were clear evidence that
they have moved into world-
class since their European
tour; the Sydney Sinfonietta,
an ensemble of strings and
wind, also showed promising
results.
Entrepreneurs David N.
Martin and R. J. Kerridge
brought out the Sicilian
operatic tenor Luigi Infantino,
who again demonstrated that
he can use his robust voice only
over the most limited repertoire.
He didn’t attempt to sing any-
thing outside a few of the more
hackneyed and spectacular
excerpts from Italian opera,
and a handful of Neapolitan
folk-songs.
The Elizabethan Theatre
Trust went off the deep end
of the operatic pool with a
Mozart season which was a
success from every angle. It
followed with a five-opera
season, with an all-Australian
cast, including Joan Hammond,
Elsie Morrison and Ronald
Dowd, all fresh from successes
at Sadler’s Wells and Covent
Garden. The three “populars”
were well enough done, but
they proved not so popular as
the greatest and heaviest of all
Verdi’s operas, “Otello,” and
the sparkling folk-opera of
Bohemia, Smetana’s “The
Bartered Bride.” The trust hit
the jackpot twice in the year.
The trust also produced
John Gay’s “The Beggar’s


HUE HAS A
RUPTURE
m
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The nbo - BAH-
rehe acts like
a hand when
placed flat upon
the orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, control
your hernia with comfort and
security. It cannot be displaced by
violent movement and has proved
completely successful by all who
have tried it.
Write today for Free Literature
Barrere Distribution Company
Dept. 3d, 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
By Appointment
yto H. M. King
Jf rederih IX
By Appointment
to the late
King Georo® vl
By Appointment
to H. M. King
Gus'jv Vi Adolf
By Appointment
to H. M. the ,
Oueen ol thW
Netherlands
Cherry
Heering
Jlnce 1818 Denmark*
!'■: l'i.inuuuua
|«o>»
rz'
CHERRY
riniiM b cok*!!2
N
an
liqueur delight.
for your after
dinner enjoyment
(jMf *
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—SWIFT & MOORE PTY. LTD.
Opera,” but this was a flop, as
was Sydney University Pro
Musica Opera Group’s produc-
tion of Britten’s “Rape of
Lucrece.” On the other hand,
Nicolai’s “Merry Wives of
Windsor,” though not of the
stature of Verdi’s “Falstaff,”
which uses the same set of
situations, was, in the Sydney
Con. Opera School’s produc-
tion, quite acceptable. It has
delightful melodies, and the
performance was notable for a
finely-sung Falstaff by Hugh
Godfrey.
The National Youth
Orchestra, under conductor
Gorden Day, continued its
steady improvement in per-
formances of not-too-compli-
cated works.
In light entertainment the
concert-public was well served
by two A.B.C. importations:
mouth-organist Larry Adler
and balladist Wiiliam Clauson.
Artbursts
A. E. Smith, A.R.A.1.A.,
who is showing oils and water-
colors at the Lower Kozminsky
Gallery, Melbourne, is an
architect who directs his eyes
to considerable effect on
Nature, which is universally
regarded as the great exemplar.
In his seascapes around Port
Phillip and the Victorian coast-
line, and in his bush landscapes,
he shows a sensitiveness which
must stand him in good stead in
designing a house or factory—
an eye which can appreciate the
delicacy of the contrasts in
“Ricketts Point” and “Dro-
mana” could hardly be satis-
fied with the coarseness of tex-
ture of some suburban brick
boxes.
♦♦♦ ❖
“Crai s e r” * Apropos
“M.G.S.’s” remarks about John
Brack’s show of nudes at the
Australian Galleries, Colling-
wood, two Collingwood cops
did drop in at the exhibition on
the day after it was opened.
They looked at the two-dimen-
sional drawings, looked at one
another, scratched their heads
and drifted out, no doubt to put
in a report to the Commissioner
of Morals. Possibly they had
expected to find Mr. Brack
ooing a pictorial striptease act.
Nothing more was heard about
it.
Films
“The Brave One”
Here is a delightful film about
a small Mexican peasant boy
who rescues a newly born bull-
calf and rears it. Developing
into a magnificent fighting bull,
the animal seems destined for
certain death in the bull-ring,
and the boy’s determined efforts
to save it from that fate,
including the seeking of
Presidential intervention, make
up the bulk of the story.
The climax, in which the bull
proves to be almost unkillable
in the ring and is reprieved by
popular demand of the huge
concourse, is as exciting as any-
thing in the blood-and-sand
genre yet filmed ; the work of
cameraman Jack Cardiff is of
the highest order ; and director
Irving Rapper, with nicely
judged sentiment, presents a
warm-hearted study of a boy
and keeps the story moving at
an agreeable pace.
Michael Ray gives a remark-
ably sensitive performance as
the youngster.
At Sydney Esquire.
*t* i+
“April Love”
Pat Boone, whose appearance
and baritone are above-average,
and Shirley Jones, whose light
soprano is as fetching as her
face, have the romantic leads
of this likeable film set in the
blue-grass country of Kentucky.
A young fellow who gets
into a spot of trouble with the
police over joyriding in
stolen cars is sent on probation
to work on his uncle’s farm.
Uncle has gone sour on life
because of a lost son, but the
young chap comes good and,
under his uncle’s tuition,
develops into a first-class trots-
driver.
The story isn’t startlingly
original, but it is played with
some freshness, and the sing-
ing has style. Arthur O’Connell
makes a good character-study
of Uncle, and the racing
sequences are good enough to
get you moving towards the
edge of youf*seat.
At Sydney Regent.
* * ❖
“Westward Ho the
Wagons”
In this frontier-film Walt
Disney had the foresight to put
a young medico at the head of
a pioneer party blazing a trail
across the mouiitains to Oregon.
Thus, when the Sioux nation of
Indians turns nasty and, after
a running fight, the survivors
of the pioneers don’t seem to
have a bolter’s chance, the doc.
is right on hand to save the
life of the badly-injured son
of the top feather-fancier.
It all adds up to lively
adventure stuff, and Fess
Parker, as the bulletproof hero,
at least looks the part. He is
aided and abetted by likely-
looking hombres of tough
muscle and luxurious whisker.
At Sydney Plaza.
A. .A. JL
V V V
“Up in the World”
Britain’s pint-sized comedian
Norman Wisdom turns on a
good run of slapstick in this
farce about a window-cleaner
employed at the mansion of a
dowager whose precious and
spoiled young son is the object
of a gang of kidnappers.
Wisdom works hard on a cheer-
ful grin, and he can sing a
good song ; his best moments in
this opus are when he wrecks
a magician’s performance in a
night-club, and when, mis-
taken for a big-time crook
during a brief spell in jail,
lords it over his fawning
fellow-prisoners.
At Sydney Victory.
*X* ♦♦♦ *>
“Kiss Them for Me”
As well as Jayne Mansfield,
this film has the additional
burden of a basic plot which
requires three Navy pilot-
heroes on war-time leave to
take part in a publicity-stunt
in which they have to act at
parties with incredible boorish-
ness. Generally the comedy
is poor and the script rarely
rises above mediocre. As the
head of the trio of flyers, Cary
Grant, whose talent for comedy
is considerable, has to struggle
hard for the grins.
Jayne Mansfield is once again
the Brainless Blonde and plays
monotonously on her two main
histrionic talents squealing
and waggling her considerable
stern.
At Sydney Mayfair.


Missing Friend
FRANCIS JOHN LEGG, late of Capelta,
Queensland, Australia. Has an interest-
in a South African estate and shouid
write to DONALD MURRAY & COM-
PANY, P.O. Box 281, Bloemfontein,
South Africa, giving his postal address.
Urgent.
A MANGLED “MESSIAH”
By ADRIAN WINTLE
ABOUT the end of this year
city-dwellers around Aus-
tralia will once again listen to
mangled versions of Handel's
“Messiah”: —unless in the mean-
time other conductors take the
examjple of one of their tribe
in Brisbane.
Going back to the beginning,
an American musical encyclo-
pedia says “Messiah” is
an oratorio by George Frederick
Handel, begun August 22, 1741, and
finished the following September 14,
23 days in all. It was first sung as a
benefit in the Music Hall in Fish-
amble Street, Dublin, Ireland, April
13, 1742. Its first performance in
England was at Covent Garden,
London, March 23, 1743.
The choir Handel used for
his annual “Messiah” at the
Foundling Hospital, London —
the size of which can be
regarded as normal for one of
his performances comprised
18 voices: 6 boy-sopranos, 4
altos, 4 tenors and 4 basses,
plus an orchestra of 33.
Percy Scholes, in the
Oxford Companion to Music,
points the difference between
German and Handelian oratorio
(G.F.H. not, of course, being
regarded as a German com-
poser). Whereas, Scholes says,
various German works of the
preceding and contemporary
period, such as the Resurrection
Oratorio and Passions of
Schutz and the Bach Passion
music, are devotional works,
Handel’s oratorios are no!
primarily devotional, but either
dramatic or epic. They were
written mainly as stopgaps to
fill up profitably the Wednes-
days and Fridays in Lent," at
which period theatrical per-
formances were forbidden by
law.
Dr. R. Dalley-Scarlett, in his
excellent booklet on “Messiah,”
reminds us that in Handel's day
his “oratorios” were known as
“entertainments,” and that
Handel tried by every means in
his power to make them so.
“Entertainment,” as applied to
“Messiah,” seems to be incon-
gruous these days ; two hundred
years of maltreatment has
changed, perhaps permanently,
the character of this great work
of art.
To my mind, it's largely the
injection of religious feeling,
genuine or otherwise, that has,
over the years, converted
“Messiah” to a drawn-out,
plodding piece of Baroque
music. Strange that Handel is
almost universally regarded as
a church-musician! He is
nothing of the sort;. alongside
Bach or Purcell his church-
writing is minute.
Dr. Dalley-Scarlett sets out
the differences in present-day
performances of 18th-century
instrumental and choral music.
Instrumental music, he main-
tains, invariably has a good run
in accordance with a correct
tradition. It is elegant and
graceful, light and lilting, the
metrical accents are not
hammered, and, he says, the
slow movements, while slow by
contrast, are not so much so as
to deprive them of a rhythmic
urge, or to make them dull. Yet
choral music of the same period
invariably is flat and dull —
speeds are dragged, thus making
it necessary, in the case of
“Messiah,” to delete certain
choruses in order to finish in
reasonable time.
Dr. Dalley-Scarlett thinks
that Handel was in the habit of
giving performances of an
overall length of about three
hours, and objected to any-
thing longer. In these three-
hour performances there were
two intervals of roughly 15
minutes each, during each of
which Handel would play an
organ concerto. But today,
\yith only one interval,
“Messiah” takes 2f to three
hours, and it’s never performed
in full. Certain choruses,
because of their assumed diffi-
culty or because the conductor
is afraid the audience won’t
like them, are omitted. Such
• liberties the “cutting” of
choruses and the generally slow
speeds adopted—aren’t by any
means recent phenomena.
George Bernard Shaw, writing
in the London “Star” of
January 3, 1889, about a per-
formance of “Messiah,” said: —
The “cuts” were many and
audacious... .the choruses retained
tor the occasion were sung in the old
prosaic jog-trot... .the truth is that
Mr. Barnby has done with those
thousand choristers everything that
a conductor can do—except kindle
their imagination. That exception
places “Messiah” beyond their
reach....
Another very potent factor
contributing to the bad inter-
pretation of “Messiah” is the
sundry arrangements of the
score. Between 1788 and 1790
Mozart, at the request of his
patron, Baron Von Swieten,
got stuck into the oratorio,
altering those movements which
he considered Handel to have
written poorly. Mozart’s most
interesting act, though, was to
write some additional orchestral
parts for the passages in the
accompaniment which Handel
had given solely to the organ.
No doubt, as Dr. Dalley-
Scarlett states, this was quite
proper—but today those extra
parts, at best a temporary
alternative, are used in addition
to the organ, and in the Pastoral
Symphony, for which Handel
expressly wanted pianissimo
strings only, Mozart added
what Dr. Dalley-Scarlett rightly
terms “a dreadful agglomera-
tion of oboes and horns.” Not
to mention, either, Mozart’s
thickening of the slow section
of the Overture with bass wind-
instruments.
And yet there were optimists,
such as William H. Husk,
writing in Grove’s Dictionary
of Music and Musicians (1894):
In 1789 Mozart composed his
additional accompaniments to it
(“Messiah”), so admirably executed
as to have received almost universal
acceptance and to be regarded as
nearly an integral part of the
composition.
Then there was the Prout
edition ; Prout himself writing,
in the preface, that, “While
■ Handel’s text has been scrupu-
lously respected, no attempt has
been made to preserve his
orchestral coloring.” This was
a case of muddled thinking.
One can only assume that Prout
thought, in view of the over-
all lightness of orchestration in
“Messiah,” that Handel so
scored the work because he
didn’t know his orchestra. But,
17 years before writing
“Messiah,” Handel had written,
in “Julius Qesar,” for four
horns obbligati and two
orchestras. And in “Saul”
Handel used the 18th-century
equivalent of a full symphony
orchestra, including three trom-
bones.
The fact is, as Dr. Dalley-
Scarlett is careful to emphasise,
Handel knew his orchestra as
well as the next man ; if he
orchestrated “Messiah” lightly
it was because he wanted it
that way. Today Handel’s
original schemes are perverted
right and left; the bigger the
orchestra and choir the better.
It’s largely forgotten that
Handel was (musically) an
Italian by training, and, as
R. R. Terry once said, “he has
all the Italian grace and
elegance of style which will not
stand rough handling.”
I happened to go to a couple
of Sydney performances of
“Messiah” this season. The
first, done with a huge choir
and poorly - integrated
orchestra, was as near to the
composer’s intentions as the
North Pole is to the South.
The other, performed by a
large but mobile choir with
orchestra and a prominent
conductor at the helm, was
refreshing—the score used was
Dr. Arnold’s, tantamount to
saying Handel’s own. Every-
where there was grace and
lightness, with no dragging of
tempi. It was a “Messiah”
Handel himself could have
listened to.
Next day a Sydney daily
reported the event as an
“experiment,” going on to say
that the work “seemed to step
out of frills and furbelows in
unblurred and beautiful out-
line.” An experiment!
It ought to be possible to
restudy the work completely
and institute annual perform-
ances conforming to Handel's
original score.
To those who think the job
impossible, Dr. Dalley-Scarlett,
quoted throughout this article,
has instituted in Brisbane an
annual performance of
“Messiah” complete, in
Handel’s style, and with
Handel’s timing. His choir
numbers 70—more, perhaps,
than need be, but, as Dr.
Dalley-Scarlett remarks, “it
might be forgiven with
choristers who know enough
to refrain from shouting their
heads off, and allow the music
to sing itself.” His group,
the Brisbane Handel Society,
intends to develop the demand
for Handel’s “Messiah” rather
than A’s or B’s or C’s, until
no conductor will dare to revert
to what he terms “the old bad
lumbering traction-engine type
of performance.”


The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Felt and Textiles of Australia, Ltd.
LATEST outcome of the sprawling
Feltex empire’s financial reshuffle,
which since 1954 has resulted in the
merging in the parent of more than 50
wholly-owned subsidiaries, is the take-
over as a subsidiary of the large South
African affiliate following an increase in
the parent’s holding to 2,004,352 5s. ords.,
or 50.1 p.c. of issued ordinary capital.
On a comparative basis, this offshoot,
whose chief manufactures are floor-felts,
carpets and footwear, is at present' the
group’s best performer, turning in a
record £461,731 consolidated net profit for
the year ended June 30 last —a return of
31 p.c. on ordinary capital. However,
minority interests, which include a
£450.000 6 p.c. preference shareholding,
claimed £267,402, leaving only £194,329
to be added to group earnings.
Respective contributions of the three
national sub-groups are set out in the
table below, overseas figures being con-
verted to local currency at the standard
25 p.c. premium. Included in the Aus-
tralian consolidated profit is a final tax-
paid dividend of £43,507 from Felt and
Textiles of South Africa, Ltd., in respect
to the financial year ended June 30,
1956: —
South New
Australia. Africa. Zealand. Total.
Trading profit 752,885 651,670 256,740 1,661,295
Less tax . . 269,700 189,939 131,250 590,889
Net profit. . . 483,185 461,731 125,490 1,070,406
Less minority
shareholders’
proportion 37,037 267,402 78,051 382,490
Group net
profit . . 446,148 194,329 47,439 687,916
Australasian group-members encountered
quieter trading conditions, but F. & T.
(N.Z.), in which the parent has a 53 p.c.
equity-holding, managed to maintain the
previous year’s 15 p.c. earning-rate on
ord. capital. The leaner year experienced
by headquarters is attributable to the
tightening of credit; while sales of floor-
coverings, particularly floor-felts and
underfelts, and automotive upholstery,
were adversely affected by the decline in
homebuilding and car - registrations
respectively.
Best Australian results were achieved
by the wool division, which handles the
decarbonising and scouring of greasy
wool, and the production of wool-tops
and noils. Nearly 45 million lb. of greasy
wool was treated during the term, 17 p.c.
of all wool processed in Australia. This
represented an increase of 22 p.c. over
1956 and 57 p.c. over 1955.
Plastics, footwear and sundry felts
gained some ground, but returns from the
textile and clothing units remain
disproportionate to the funds invested in
this side of the business. With a view
to streamlining output, research into
textile-designing and -styling is being
carried out with overseas technical
assistance.
In all, group-sales increased by
£3,646,874 to £35,729,042, and group net
profit showed-up 20 p.c. higher at
£687,916, after providing £549,982 for
depreciation, £590,889 for taxation, and
deducting minority shareholders’ propor-
tion of profits, £382,490.
But the incorporation of the South
African consolidated figures in the
accounts renders nugatory any direct
comparison with preyious years.
Earning-rates of ordinary capital and
shareholders’ funds would be 16.4 p.c.
and 6.2 p.c. respectively on the enlarged
profit:
r Dividends ,
Pref. Re-
June, Profit.* 6& 4 p.c. f Ordinary fjerves.t
£ £ £> £*
1953. .506,054 64,800 8 p.c. = 303,965 3,638,471
From contingencies, £44,261 .. .. 3,682,732
Tax underprovisiOn, £23,629 . . . . 3,659,103
Added capital reserves, £176,773 .. 3,835,876
Added general reserves, £14,036 . . 3,849,912
Unexplained additions, £21,617 . . 3,871,529
Net addition intangibles, £6027 ..3,865,502
1954. .702,694 64,800 10 p.c. = 379,956 4,123,440
Tax overprovided, £7471 .. .. 4,130,911
Less capital reserves, £81,323 .. 4,099,588
Less revenue reserves, £416 . . . . 4,099,172
Net addition intangibles, £11,653.. 4,087,519
1955. .617,532 64,800 10 p.c. = 379,956 4,260,295
Tax ovevprovided, £9541 . . . . 4,269,836
Added capital reserves, £7946 .. 4,277,782
Adj. liq. subsidiary, £5746 .. 4,272,036
Net addition intangibles, £6825 . . 4,265,211
Add sinking-fund income, £7996 .. 4,273,207
1956. .574,546 64,800 10 p.c. = 379,956 4,402,997
Less long-serv ice prov., £lOO,OOO. . 4,802,997
Tax overprovision. £24,484 .. .. 4,327,481
Pre-acquisition profits £403,616 .. 4,731,097
Profit sale fixed assets, £31,666 . . 4,762,763
Net revaluation fixed assets £1,030,416 5,793,179
Written-off plant, £463,782 .. .. 5,329,397
Net addition intangibles, £14,891 .. 5,314,506
1957. .687,916 64,800 10 p.c. = 879,956 5,557,666
* After deducting outside shareholders’ interests.
t After deducting goodwill, etc., £192,415 at
30/6/’67.
Unchanged at 10 p.c., the ord. dividend
absorbed £379,956. Reserve funds bene-
fited by an ex-profits increment of
£243,160, making net additions for the
year £1,154,669. Obsolescent plant to the
value of £463,782 was weeded-out, and
freeholds were written-up by £1,030,416.
A rather arbitrary £lOO,OOO was set aside
for accrued long-service liability.
For reasons indicated above, the
reconstituted balance-sheet shows some
marked changes, outside interests rising
by £1,955,502:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £5,299,565 £5,299.565 £5,299,565
Reserves .. 4,438,775 4,580,521 5,750,081
Outside interestst 1,840,964 1,414,915 3,370,417
Debentures .. 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Mortgages . . 2,561,913 2,579,634 2,531,688
Overdraft .. 2,255,201 3,012,367 2,868,939
Sundry creditors,
etc 1,369,772 1,724,650 2,382,850
Long-service pro-
vision .. . - 100,000
Tax provision. . 405,564 498,958 683,794
Final divs. . . 221,178 221,178 221,178
Suspense a/c ... 24,526 919
£18,892,932 £20,856,314 £24,209,481
Freeholds .. 3,900,393 4,030,023 6,098,738
Plant . . .. 8,475,784 8,785,668 3,848,988
Shares .. 446,377 633,840 132,997
Stock .. .. 7,303,377 7,767,978 8,828,424
Debtors, etc. .. 3,360,661 3,710,166 4,827,421
Cash .. .. 2,064 2,297 2,576
Sinking fund in-
vestment .. 220,822 248,818 277,872
Suspense a/c.. 4,969
Intangibles .. 178,480 177,524 192,415
£18,892,932 £20,356,314 £24,209,431
f Share capital and reserves.
Stocks, the co.’s tenderest spot under
present conditions, are up £1,060,446,
but the inventories of the Australian and
N.Z. companies actually decreased by
£372,508. Most of the raw and processed
wool stocks are currently held against
firm orders.
As a result of the recent overhaul, Felt
and Textiles general structure has been
greatly simplified. All the former wholly-
owned subsidiaries have now been
reformed into seven operating divisions,
directly supervised by the parent, which
also controls five subsidiaries.
In addition, Preston Wools (Aust.) Pty.
is controlled through the British Aus-
tralian Carpet Mfg. Co.
A former associate, Robert Young
Pty., was acquired last term as an Aus-
tralian wholesale outlet for F. & T.’s
floorcoverings, the parent holding a two-
thirds interest while the remaining third
is held by the B.A. Carpet subsidiary.
Storey, Davies and Co. was formed to
handle the printing of plastic film and is
operated jointly with Storey Bros, of
England, Feltex owning 60 p.c. of the
shares. Chattanooga Tufted Carpets
(Aust.) Pty., operated equally with
Bradford Cotton Mills, opened officially
during the year. It is reported to
be making reasonable progress in a
difficult market.
Uncertainties as to the immediate
future, especially in connection with wool
prices and the lapanese treaty, have kept
Feltex scrip at a sober level. Well
covered with net assets backing of 495.
3d., the 20s. ords. would return a yield of
£8 os. Od. p.c. from last week’s top bid
of 255.
Buckingham’s, Ltd.
TT'EEPING a balance between its city
and suburban retailing interests,
Buckingham’s, Ltd., followed the purchase
of The Hub, Ltd., last August with an
announcement that plans were being
prepared for a new department-store in
the Sydney suburb of West Ryde, not
far from Sydney’s first planned regional
shopping-centre.
Outdoor- or van-selling was also
stepped-up last year, and further addi-
tions to the recently enlarged fleet of
panel-vans are contemplated.
A large freehold in Oxford Street,
Sydney, is the biggest unit in the Bucking-
ham’s chain, the acquisition of The Hub,
now known as Ashleys’-Hub, giving the
co. its fourth outlet in the city of Sydney.
In addition; the group operates eight
stores in the surrounding suburbs, one in
Brisbane, one at Surfers’ Paradise (Q.)
and five in N.S.W. provincial centres and
tourist-resorts. [Newcastle, Wollongong
(2), Katoomba and Blackheath]. With the
development of the organisation, three
separate trading-names have been
adopted—Buckingham’s, Ashleys’ and
Curzons —a fourth group (Mitchell’s)
taking the parent’s name last term.
Buckingham’s, Ltd., was formed in
1920 to take over a retail drapery and
cash-order business established in 1878.
Although the co. still finances a large
volume of credit sales, the original cash-
order section was passed over to a group
of employees soon after incorporation and


has since operated successfully as Aus-
tralian Cash Order Co., Ltd.
The steady expansion of the last 10
years, during which the number of
stores trading has jumped from nine to
19, has called for substantial amounts of
fresh capital, and since 1947 the total
on the share-register has risen from
£300,000 to £950,230. The last two issues
to ord. shareholders, one-for-four in
1950 and two-for-seven in 1951, carried
premiums of 50 p.c. and 40 p.c. respec-
tively. The Colonial Mutual Life holds
the £118,750 of 5 p.c. pref. capital, f.-p.
ss. ords. making up the balance of the
issued capital.
In 1955 the co. raised £351,000 on 6|
p.c. notes, convertible at the noteholders’
option, into ords. at par in 1960. The
options are negotiable.
At £4,928,090, turnover for the year
to July 31 last was £36,539 below the
record figure achieved in the preceding
term, cash-order business, unrelated to
the group’s retail sales, amounting to a
further £996,178 (not disclosed in the
1956 term). State land-tax, introduced
during the year, made off with £21,500,
but a tighter grip was kept on expenses ;
and, after providing £70,426 for taxation
(the parent put away £70,740 in the
previous term) and £42,702 (up £8139)
for depreciation, net profit was £13,635
higher at £112,002: — »
Parent and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. f- Ord. —,, serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
5 p.e.
Special provision for collections,
£IOBO 411,039
Share premiums, £30,754 .. .. 441,843
1952.. 41,507 5938 5 p.c.= 34,162 1,407 443,250
Special provision for collections,
£5773 449,023
Share-premiums, £1266 .. .. 450.289
1953.. 80,125 5938 8
Special provision for collections,
£24,503 492,820
Share-premiums, £l2B .. .. .. 492,948
1954.. 5938 10 p.c.= 70,200 39,156 532,104
Assets revalued, £200,000 .. .. 732,104
Special provision for collections,
£7539 . 739 643
1955.. 5938 12£p.c.= '87,75(j ‘ 58,71.3 798^356
Pre-acquisition reserves, £10,969 .. 809,325
Net increase provision for collec-
tions, £10,707 820,032
1956.. 98,349 5938 lljp.c.= 78,975 13,436 833,468
Net increase provision for collections,
£14,170 847,638
1957.. 5938 10 p.c.= 70,200 35,804 883,502
* Subject to intangibles, £83,829 at 31/7/’57.
The ord. div.-rate, cut from 12y p.c. to
lli p.c. in 1956, dropped to 10 p.c. last
term, to give an average rate over the last
10 years of 9.6 p.c. The pref. div. took
£5938 of the profit, the balance repre-
senting 15.1 p.c. on ord. capital, as
against 13.1, 20.8, 15.6 and 10.5 p.c. in the
four years back to 1953.
The £207,168 share-capital of The
Hub cost Buckingham’s approximately
£129,480 in scrip (at par) and £7750 in
cash, basis of the deal being the exchange
of 2i ss. shares and 9d. in cash for each
£1 ord. in The Hub. A 10 p.c. div. on
the scrip issued as consideration would
require a little under £13,000, or almost
£6500 more than The Hub’s net profit
last term (to February, ’57), but much less
than the average profit (£23,913) for the
five preceding terms.
Alterations to the Bankstown (Sydney)
store were completed last term, a property
occupied by the Newcastle branch pur-
chased, and the fleet of outdoor-selling
vans increased. Total capital outlay was
£96,870, depreciation leaving the net
addition to fixed assets at £54,168:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1955. 1956. 1957.
Pref. .. £118,750 £118,750 £118,750
Ord. .. .. 702,000 702,000 702,000
Reserves .. .. 798.356 833,468 883,502
Mortgages.. .. 154,200 212,200 242,100
Notes .. . . 351,000 351,000
Creditors, tax pro-
vision .. .. 857,677 1,113,461 1,270.523
Staff fund .. 24,969 21,146 22,821
Final divs. .. 55,619. 38,069 38,069
£2.711,571 £3,390,094 £3,628,765
Land, buildings .. 716,272 802,716 851,845
Fixtures, fittings. . 377,251 513,553 518,592
Shares .. .. 1,584 1,934 1,934
Stock .. .. 641,457 841,001 789,553
~ Debtors .. .. 958,749 1,134,386 1,370,007
Cash . . .. 9,328 11,294 13,005
Intangibles .. 6,930 85,210 83,829
£2.711,571 £3,390,094 £3,628,765
The proportion of credit sales continued
to increase over the year, book-debts, the
largest item in the balance-sheet, rising by
£235,621 to £1,370,007. The chairman
reports that “the trend is definitely
towards smaller weekly payments over
longer periods,” adding that “more and
more money” will be needed to finance
this type of business. (The Hub’s reluc-
tance to compete with deferred-payment
schemes was probably one of the main
factors behind its poor showing last term.)
Turnover in the first quarter of the
current term exceeded that of the corres-
ponding period in 1956, but competition
remains keen, and trading conditions are
unlikely to become any easier over the
balahce of the financial year. At the
same time the 10 p.c. div.-rate seems
safe enough, and the group is well placed
to benefit from any expansion of
suburban trading.
The f.-p. ss. ords. last sold at 6s. 3d. to
return 8 p.c. from a 10 p.c. div., the
options fetching around 9d. Net tangible
cover for the ords. (July 31, ’57) was
10s. Bd.
F. J. Walker, Ltd.
YXfHILE the earnings of F. J. Walker,
* * Ltd., have fluctuated with changes
in seasonal and trading conditions,
shareholders who bought the 10s. stock-
units for 13s. lOd. in 1951, when a public
placement of scrip was made, have had
little cause for complaint. Initially 9 p.c.,
the div.-rate was raised to 10 p.c. in
1952, 12£ p.c. in 1953 and 15 p.c. in
1954, a three-for-10 bonus-issue in Octo-
ber, 1956, making last term’s p.c.
distribution worth p.c. on pre-bonus
capital.
The co. was formed in 1920 to take
over a meat-exporting business established
10 years earlier and now heads a group
of 11 subsidiaries which, like the parent
co., are connected with the wholesale,
retail and export meat trade.
Livestock is slaughtered at the Auburn
and Aberdeen (N.S.W.) meatworks for
local and export markets, skins tanned
by a fellmongering and woolscouring
subsidiary at Botany (Sydney), and rabbit-
chilling works operated at eight country
centres. Transacting the bulk of its
business in N.S.W., the well-integrated
organisation also turns out smallgoods,
casings, tinned-meat and butter, conducts
a number of retail butcheries and provides
freezing and cold-storage facilities.
The parent began its career as a public
co. (1951) with a paid capital of
£1,000,000, the total rising to £1,108,000
following the exchange of scrip for assets
(including those of Oldham Bros., Ltd.,
and R. N. McGovern and Son, both in the
Newcastle district) and to the present
figure, £1,440,400, after last term’s bonus-
issue.
Adding emphasis to the chairman’s
somewhat pessimistic remark that “in
seasonal businesses, trading conditions are
never easy,” last term commenced during
the wettest season for 50 years and ended
(June 30 last) after six months of
extremely dry weather.
The number of sheep and lambs
slaughtered annually in Australia has
declined by almost 3,000,000 over the
past two years, as a result of the tendency
to raise sheep for wool rather than meat,
leading to an increase in the local con-
sumption of beef. Although wool-prices
strengthened last term, helping the fell-
mongering side of the business, the dry
conditions prevailing over the second
half of the period brought a general
increase in the quantity of livestock sent
to the markets.
Demand for Australian beef on the
oversupplied U.K. market showed little
sign of improvement, but the group is not
a large-scale exporter, and, with all off-
shoots trading profitably, it was able to
lift turnover by 5 p.c. to £8,938,000, the
highest figure recorded since the parent
became a public co. The bigger sales
helped to halt the drift in earnings,
evident in the two preceding terms, the
board writing net profit £9300 stronger at
£247,848, after providing £171,258 (up
£6485) for taxation and £51,279 (up
£3709) for depreciation:
F. J. Walker, Ltd., and Subsidiaries.
To He- Re-
June, Profit. Dividend. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1951.. 169,402 9 p.e. = 90,000 79,402 303,898
1952.. 184,997 10 „ „ 100,000 84,997" 388,895
Written off intangibles, etc., £6049 . . 382,846
1953.. 317,740 121p.c.= 125,000 192,740 575,586
Tax overprovided, £74,076 .. .. 649,662
Pre-acquisition profits, written-off, etc.,
£16,510 633,152
1954.. 321,464 15 p.c.= 165,000 156,464 789,616
Goodwill written-off, £2953 .. .. 786,663
Unexplained addition, £1560 .. 788,223
1955.. 275,906 15 p.c. = 165,000 110,906 899,129
Profit sale freehold, £100,484 .. .. 999,613
Revaluation fixed assets, £294,346 .. 1,293,969
Unexplained addition, £2427 .. .. 1,296,386
Intangibles written-off, £155,798 . . 1,140,588
1956.. 238,548 15 p.c. = 166,200 72,348 1,212,936
Reserves capitalised, £332,400 . . 880,536
Goodwill written-off, £9592 . . . . 870,944
Unexplained reduction, £1631 .. 869,313
* Subject! to intangibles, written-off 30/6/’56.
The actual result was, in fact, better than
that shown above, the provision for tax,
calculated on pre-Budget rates, exceeding
a revised estimate by approximately
£IO,OOO. Allowing for this adjustment,
the earnings equalled 17.8 p.c. of the
bonus-enlarged capital, compared with
21.5, 25.1 and 29.2 p.c. in the three years
back to 1954. On average shareholders’
funds, the return was 10.4 p.c.
A high rate of stock-turn can be
expected from this type of business, but
the group appears to be particularly
successful in keeping stock, book-debts
and creditors down to a minimum, part
of the £132,574 increase in book-debts
last term relating to insurance-claims in


A.C.A.
policies
are good
policies
for...
LIFE,
FIRE, ACCIDENT
& GENERAL
INSURANCES
get yours to-day!
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
; (Incorporated in New South Wales)
HEAD OFFICE:
VICTORIA:
QUEENSLAND:
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
WEST AUSTRALIA:
A.C.A. Building, 66 King St., Sydney. 8X2165.
D. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen St., Melbourne. MU 5706.
C. A. Adams, State Manager.
A.C.A. Building, 270-272 Queen St., Brisbane. B 8529.
J. S. Grace, A.A.1.1., State Manager.
12 King William St., Adelaide. LA 1043.
P. J. Ryan, A.A.1.1., State Manager.
Warwick House, 63 St. George's Terrace, Perth. BA 6815.
D. S. O'Donoghue, State Manager.
connection with a fire which
occurred in the preceding
year: —
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £1,108,000 £1,440,400
Reserves. ’ .. 1,212,936 937,111
Outside interest 6,987 6,916
Creditors .. 229,653 220,221
Long-service prov. 33,212 47,457
Tax provision .. 166,816 172,627
Final div. .. 96,950 90,025
£2,854,554 £2,914,757
Freehold and lease-
holds .. .. 1,118,146 1,135,923
Plant, machinery,
etc. .. .. 540,914 559,889
Stock .. . . 291,983 312,507
Debtors .. 365,754 498,328
Cash and invest-
ments .. 537,757 408,110
£2,854,554 £2,914,757
Reserves have more than
trebled over the last six years
—thanks to the board’s policy
of keeping the div. well within
earnings—and at June 30 last
each 10s. share was supported
by visible net tangible assets
of 16s. 6d.
A growing population should
ensure the continuance of a
strong demand for meat and
by-products within Australia,
and long-term prospects seem
promising, but the uncertain
state of the wool-market and
the effects of drought are likely
to add to trading difficulties in
the current term.
At 225. the 10s. ords. would
return £5 4s. 6d. p.c. from a
12} p.c. div.
National Radiators, Ltd.
T AST term was a less-
-* -y prosperous one for many
members of the Australian
automotive industry, but,
despite the slip in motor-
vehicle production and sales,
National Radiators, Ltd., was
able to step-up production to
a record level. Although the
value of the co.’s output
dropped by approximately 9
p.c., a little more profit was
squeezed out of each £ of
turnover to lift net earnings by
almost 5 p.c.
The largest manufacturer of
motor-vehicle radiator-cores in
the Southern Hemisphere,
National Radiators has
expanded swiftly and profit-
ably over the past decade, and
in common with many cos. in
the automotive industry, its
progress has been linked with
contracts for the supply of
parts used as initial equipment
on Holden vehicles. Included
among other well-known makes
of cars and trucks to incorpor-
ate Natra radiators as initial
equipment are Chrysler, Vaux-
hall, Peugeot, Hillman, Morris
Minor, Standard 10, Land-
Rover and International.
In addition to radiators and
similar equipment for the
transference of heat, the co.
also turns-out Aerosol valves
(used in dispensing various
products from small disposable
pressure containers), and, in
conjunction with Cromwell
Paper Co. of U.S.A., produces
Ferropak, a corrosion-inhibit-
ing packing-paper.
Factories in New Zealand
and West Australia were added
to the co.’s manufacturing
strength last term (other plants
are in Sydney and Melbourne),
118,676 ss. ords. being
exchanged for the share-capital
of Motor Radiators, Ltd.
(Wellington and Auckland,
N.Z.) and 52,730 ords. for the
capital of A. F. Hoare and Sons
(National) Pty. of Perth.
Since conversion to a public
co. in 1948, National Radiators
has added £341,669 to its paid
capital, a one-for-four bonus-
issue in June, 1956, account-
ing for £56,066 of this total,
Over the same period ord. divs.
have averaged a shade under
14 p.c. Last term’s issue of
scrip to shareholders in Motor
Radiators and A. F. Hoare and
Sons raised ord. capital to
£323,181, the £50,000 pref.
capital carrying a fixed 5 p.c.
Difficulties in the motor-
trade upset production-
schedules in the first half of
last term, but the position
improved later in the year, and,
with the aid of an “appreciable
increase” in the (still relatively
small) volume of exports, pro-
duction was stabilised at a level
higher than that of the preced-
ing term.
Lower copper prices and


subsequent reductions ‘ in sell-
ing-prices contributed to a
£114,528 drop in turnover
(£1,249,745), but the lower
material costs also helped to
lift profit-margins, net earnings
for the term (to June 30) repre-
senting 5.8 p.c. of turnover
against 5.1 p.c. in 1955,-56:
Parent and Subsidiary.
r Dividends, —Re-
Jne. Profit. Pref. Old. — N serves.
30, £ £ p.c. £ £
Profit sale assets, £342 . . 66,895
Share-premiums, £40,00.0 .. 106,895
’52..53,520 2500 13.33 = 27,901 130,014
Profit sale assets, £l9 . . 130,033
’53..52,778 2500 13.33 = 29,902 150,409
Profit sale assets, £356 . . 150,765
’54..60,997 2500 18.33 = 41,115 168,147
Tax overprovided, £1652 .. 169,799
Profit sale assets, £213 . . 170,012
’55..66,131 2500 13.33 = 29,902 203,741
Revaluat’n freeholds, £23,197 226,938
Reserves capitalised, £56,066 170,872
Profit sale fixed-assets, etc.,
£lOl4 171,886
’56..68,365 2500 13.33 = 34,574 203,177
Tax uuderprovided, £46 .. 203,131
Profit, sale assets, £203 .. 203,334
’57..71,749 2500 13.33 = 40,949 231,634
Up £3384, the £71,749 profit was
claimed after providing an
ample £59,500 (up £16,500) for
taxation and £25,869 (down
£2149) for depreciation. There
was no difficulty in maintaining
the 13| p.c. ord. div.-rate on
the larger capital, earnings
covering the pref. div. and 22.5
p.c. on average ord. capital,
compared with 23.4, 28.4 and
26.8 p.c. in the three preceding
years.
Stocks (down £68,520)
dropped in both quantity and
value, and although book-debts
rose by 60 p.c. (or £53,259), the
overdraft (down £107,364) was
practically eliminated, leaving
working - capital £58,068
stronger at £314,308:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1956. 1957.
Prof. .. ... £50,000 £50.000
Ord 280,329 323,181
Reserves ... .. 203,177 231,634
Overdraft .. .. 110,429 3,065
Creditors .. .. 59,143 58,098
Staff fund .. ".. 7,114 14.038
Tax provision ..- 43,000 69,841
Final div. .. .. 24,611 28,182
£777,803 £778,039
Freeholds, leaseholds
and plant .. 273,266 285,757
Stocks .. .. 411,538 343,018
Debtors .. .. 88,487 141,746
Shares .. .. 4,000 4,310
Cash, etc. .. .. 512 3,208
£777,803 £778,039
New equipment was installed at
the Sydney plant last term to
enable production of tubular-
type radiators, the outlay
involved, coupled with the
absorption of the Westralian
and N.Z. cos., sending up the
book-value of fixed assets by
£41,301, before depreciation
reduced the net gain to £12,491.
Part of the freehold property
was revalued in 1956.
The number of new motor-
vehicles assembled in New
Zealand is steadily increasing
and the board plans to widen
the scope of the N.Z. business,
commencing with production
of tubular-core radiators in
Wellington, early this year.
Encouraging pointers to pros-
pects in the current term are
the improvement, over recent
months, in new-car registra-
tions and the higher output of
Holden vehicles (now coming
off the line at a rate in excess of
100,000 units per year).
Consolidated accounts at
June 30, 1957, gave the f.-p. ss.
c,rds. a net tangible backing of
Bs. 7d., the scrip yielding
£5 os. Bd. p.c. from a 13| p.c.
div. at 13s. 3d.
Mt. Isa Mines, Ltd.
EXPLORATION and de-
velopment-work carried out
by Mt. Isa Mines, Ltd., during
the year to June 30 last
resulted in an expected, but
nevertheless spectacular, jump
in ore-reserves.
Estimated reserves of silver-
lead-zinc ore rose by 6,500,000
tons and copper ore by
5,000,000 tons:
f — Assay —>
Ag., Pb., Zn. ( Cu.
Lead-zinc — Tons. Oz. p.c. p.c. p.c.
Carbonates 600,000 1.1 5.9 -
Sulphides 20,100,000 5.8 7.9 6.0
Total ..20,700,000 5.8 7.9 6.0
Copper —-
Sulphides 12,200,000 3.7
Oxides .. 600,000 5.3
Total ..12,800,000 3.7
Of the lead ore, 17,012,000 tons
was classed as “prospective,”
6,710,000 tons of the copper
ore being described in the
same fashion. Large tonnages
below the present cut-off grade
were proved, but expanded
production is expected to
reduce operating - costs and
make the handling of such ore
a profitable proposition.
Forging ahead with its big
(£2O-million) expansion pro-
gramme, the co. plans to lift
ore-production to 6000 tons a
day by April of this year, with
13,000 tons a day as the next
target-figure. A £3.5-million
copper-refinery now under
construction for the co. near
Townsville (Q.) is expected to
be in operation by June, 1959.
The sag in base-metal prices
has reduced the funds available
for financing this programme,
and the board plans to raise
£1.5 million by the private
issue of debentures and to
obtain short-term advances
against stocks in hand and in
transit, etc., which were valued
at over £6.5 million (cost) on
June 30 last. In addition the
Bank of N.S.W. Savings Bank
is to take over the financing
of co-operative building-
societies operating at Mt. Isa.
To conserve funds, 6d. of
last term’s unchanged Is. 3d.
div. (25 p.c.) was paid in scrip,
one ss. share being issued for
each 10 shares held. This move
saved the co. £575,731 in cash,
but increased paid capital by
the same amount, future divs.
being spread over £6,333,043
of share-capital.
Located in n.-w. Queensland,
roughly 1000 air-miles from
Brisbane and Adelaide, the
Mt. Isa mine has been yielding
silver-lead-zinc for over 25
years. Rich copper deposits,
discovered at depth, were first
worked during the 1939-45
war. A modern copper-smelter
was erected in 1952, and the
co. now produces over half the
copper won in Australia and
approximately a fifth of the
lead.
Last term an extra 14,727
tons-of lead ore and 7610 tons
of copper ore went to the mill
to give a total throughput of
1,404,813 tons (up 22,337
tons):
Ore Milled.
Lead, Copper, Total}
Tons. Tons. Tons.
19.53 ... 641,520 206,380 847,905
19.54 .. 645,083 565,897 1,210,980
1955 ... 670,514 573,678 1,244,192
1956 .. 656,738 725.738 1,382,476
1957 671,46-5 738,348 1,404,813
In all cases assay-values were
higher (silver 6.90 z., lead 8.4
p.c., zinc 6.2 p.c. and copper
4.5 p.c.), and there was an
all - round improvement in
metal production:
Lead Blister
Jne. Silver, Bullion, Zinc, Copper,
30, Oz. Tons. Tons. Tons.
’54..2,872,493 35,725 20,512 19,869
’55. .3,370,920 39,730 18,701 21,585
’56..3,289,645 36,54.5 15,648 24.40 S
’575.3.887,851 45,190 18,386 28,875
Another 4536 tons of lead-
copper dross, containing
243,9190 z. silver and 2882 tons
lead, was also produced.
Mine-revenue has yet to feel
the full impact of the fall in
metal prices, last term’s mine-
income, after deducting trans-
port, refinery and realisation
costs, dropping by £97,211 to
£17,199,619. Higher mining,
milling and smelting charges
left the mine-surplus £263,385
lower at £6,728,736.
Taking advantage of the de-
preciation concessions allowed
to mining cos., the board
follows the practice of appro-
priating portion of the earnings
as a provision for capital-
expenditure. Last term, how-
ever, in view of the longer life
indicated for the mine and the
magnitude of the capital-
outlay, the published accounts
were adjusted to show certain
expenditure on major capital
items “incurred in past years”
as an addition to fixed assets.
This was accompanied by an
appropriate increase in the
accumulated provision for
depreciation.
As taxation will increase
with the future tapering-off of
capital - expenditure a tax -
equalisation reserve was
created, a £1,100,000 charge
to this account being respon-
sible for a large part of the
£1,161,108 drop in the net
profit claimed by the parent
co. (No consolidated p. and 1.
account is published):
Parent Only.
Net
Jne., Profit.* , —Dividends— N Reserves.
£ p.e. £ £
’53..1,668,663 15= 863,597 5,105,000
’54.-2,096.274 20 = 1,151,462 6,049,812
’55..3,307,250 25 = 1,439,328 7,917,734
Tax-refund, £312,618 . . 8,230,352
’56..4,301,931 25 = 1,439,328 11,092,955
Development and mine ex-
penditure capitalised,
£2,877,527 .. .. 13,970,482
Less increase in deprecia-
tion prov., £921,318.. 13,049,164
Net addition to tax-equali-
sation reserve, £890,467 13,939,631
’57..3,140,823 25 = 1.439,328 t 15,641,126
* After deducting debenture interest and
allowing depreciation,
t £575,731 paid in scrip.
The £3,140,823 profit repre-
sented 49.5 p.c. on the present
share-capital, or 66.9 p.c. if the
provision for tax-equalisation
is included with earnings, but
the need for funds to finance
development plans makes any
early lift in the 25 p.c. div.-
rate unlikely.
Large loans and advances,
etc., from subsidiary cos.
(including the old parent co.,
Mining Trust, Ltd.,' which
operates the Britannia lead-
refinery near London) figure
in the parent’s accounts, the
consolidated balance - sheet
giving a clearer picture of the
group's financial strength:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1956. 1957.
Paid capital. . . £5,757,312 £5,757,312
Reserves . . 13,155,434 18,431,983
Outside interests 104,590 109,941
Debentures . . 8,-582 7,956
Overdraft . . 330,761 1,828,988
Creditors, etc. 1,463,208 1,422,937
Tax provision 1,153,417 962,917
Final div. .. 849,678 867,493
£22,822,982 £29,389,527
Mine, plant,
etc. ' .. 9,720,702 16.488,403
Investments .. 246,496 111,198
Stores .. 3,573,920 4,258,427
Stocks .. 6,860.682 6,662,970
Debtors .. 1,340,865 1,319,540
Cash, bonds.. 1,080,367 548,989
£22,822,982 £29,389,527
Although substantial amounts
of outside money will be
needed in the current term, it
is hoped that higher produc-
tion will, to some extent, offset
the effect on revenue of low
metal prices. Last term the
bank provided most of the extra
funds required, the overdraft
leaping from £330,761 to
£1,828,988. The adjustments
referred to earlier were respon-
sible for part of the large
additions to fixed assets and
reserves.
Counting on future benefits,
the market prices the ss. units
at 28s. 6d., buyers at this price
receiving a return of £4 7s. 9d.
p.c. from a 25 p.c. div.


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
CONSIDERING the
uncertain economic out-
look, the firmness maintained
by the New Zealand share-
market up to the close of the
year’s business was remarkable.
Statements by the Prime
Minister, Mr. Nash, on the
country’s finances and on the
Government’s policy (especially
import policy) may provide
sobering food for thought over
the 'holidays, and it wouldn’t be
surprising if there were some
downward revision of share-
values early in 1958.
During 1957 share prices
climbed steadily till mid-July,
remained on a plateau till mid-
August, fell slowly till mid-
November, and then levelled-
off.
On the average, share prices
at the end of the year were
about 3.7 per cent below their
August peak, but were still
about 8.3 per cent, above where
they stood at the end of 1956.
. The steady rise during the
first seven months of the year
was attributable mainly to a
big volume of funds from
export receipts flowing to an
investment market restricted by
capital-issues control. The sub-
sequent decline was caused by
seasonal falling-off of export
income and the development of
a more cautious market senti-
ment as evidence of stress in
the world’s financial centres
accumulated and commodity
prices turned sharply down-
ward.
The market-leaders, which
in July and August were priced
to give very low returns, were,
of course, the most vulnerable
and suffered most in the re
adjustment. y
The following table shows
prices and yields for some of
the leaders at the end of July
and the end of December:
f July— ~ r~ December— —
Price.' Yield, p.c. Price, Yield, p.c,
£ s. d. £ «. d. £ s. d. £ s. d.
Dominion Brewery .... ..5 5 0 118 1 415 0 2 2 1
New Zealand Breweries ..2 11 6 3 6 0 2 8 6 3 10 1
New Zealand Insurance.. ..496 2 15 0 43 9 2 19 10
South Britislj Insurance ~4 17 9 20 11 493 2 10 3
Company results received
during the first five months of
the year showed profits which
were for the most part falling
as a result of the initial impact
of the credit-squeeze. From
then on balance-sheets revealed
predominantly rising profits. In
many cases, however, the rise
represented recovery from a
fall the previous year, rather
than a continued upward trend.
It was a good year for
dividends. More than twice as
many companies were able to
increase their ordinary
dividend-rate as found it
necessary to reduce it.
For the full calendar-year
results from 185 N.Z. com-
panies whose shares are
officially listed by the Stock
Exchange were:
Profits: Up 144, down 71.
Dividends: Up 44, down 19, steady 122.
Gilt - edged investments
showed a weakening trend,
particularly over the second
half of the year. This reflected
to some extent the continued
world-wide rise of interest-
rates, which culminated in
the lifting of the British bank-
rate to the highest level since
the early 1920’5. Another con-
tributory factor was the general
tendency for investors to
change from fixed-interest
securities to equities to gain
protection from inflation.
Average final maturity-yields
on Government stock at the
end of 1957 and at the end of
1956 are shown in the follow-
ing table:
Dec., 1956. Dec., 1957.
Years to Yield, p.c. Yield, p.c.
P.un. £ s. d. £ s. d.
1 to 5 . . .. 4 13 10 4 19 2
5 to 10 .... 416 8 5 0 2
Over 10 .. 4 15. 8 4 19 11
In the final week of the year
15 different issues of Govern-
ment stock were yielding 5 per
cent, or more. The 3| per cent.
1962 issue was selling at
£94 12s. 6d. to return £5 Is. Bd.
per cent.
It seems unlikely that yields
will go much higher. Already
there have been signs of a
better inquiry for local-body
debentures. The new Govern-
ment’s announced intention of
gradually bringing interest-rates
down should tend to restore
firmness to the gilt-edged
market in 1958.
Exchange Deficit
N.Z.’s overseas exchange
transaction for the 12 months
ended November resulted in a
deficit of £2O million (N.Z.
currency) compared with a
surplus of £4.6 million for the
previous 12 months.
The main reason for the
decline was an increase of 11
per cent, in import payments,
only partly offset by a 2.1 per
cent, increase in export income.
Total receipts rose by £B.l
million to £328.5 million. The
greater part of this was from
export receipts, which increased
by £6 million. Not all com-
modities contributed to the
“As soon as you fix an airstrip , up here'll be like
Pitt Street , Sydney."
rise, however. Butter and
cheese receipts, for instance,
were £15.2 million down, due
solely to lower prices. Wool
receipts rose by 14 per cent, to
£llO million. A 14.6 per cent,
increase in receipts from other
exports was contributed to by
milk by-products, pulp» and
paper, wood products and
scrap metal.
Receipts other than for
exports rose by £2.1 million to
£42.2 million. A lower capital
inflow was more than offset by
greater receipts on current
account for “invisible” items.
Capital receipts were £12.9
million (£6.5 million private
and £6.4 million Government)
against £15.9 million (£6.5
million private and £9.4 million
Government) in the previous
12 months.
Total payments for the year
rose by £32.9 million to £348.6
million. All items were greater,
but the most significant factor
was an 11 per cent, increase in
private imports to £288.7
million. Private import-pay-
ments averaged £21.6 million
a month, against £19.4 million
a month in the previous com-
parable period.
For the month of November
a deficit of £13.1 million was
recorded, compared with
deficits of £15.2 million in
October and £7.2 million in
November, 1956. Export
receipts were £17.7 million,
against £19.4 million in Novem-
ber, 1956, and private imports
were £24.8 million against
£21.4 million.
Net overseas assets are con-
tinuing to fall. By December
11 they were down to £51.5
million, compared with £74.9
million a year before. Annual
returns show that the lowest
level is usually reached at the
end of December or the
beginning of January.
Waterside Wages
Unfavorable economic
prospects are the main reason
given by the Waterfront Indus-
trial Tribunal for refusing an
application by N.Z. watersiders
for an increase from ss. 3d. to
6s. in hourly basic pay.
“For some years,” says the
tribunal, “the country has been
prosperous and its prospects
have been good. These were
among the factors which moved
this tribunal to grant increases
in the basic rate in 1952 and
1955. Today, however, the
economic future is by no means
so bright, and a period of some
difficulty seems to lie ahead.
In these circumstances we feel
that anything that would
materially increase shipping
costs is contrary to the public
interest.”


THE OUTLAWS
By
MENA ABDULLAH
and
RAY MATHEW
THE stories that Ama our
mother told us were
gentle and strange;
stories of the time when
magic people walked through
Hindustan, and everything
they touched was right and
good.
Father’s stories were true
and real ; how he had moved
through Australia as a hawker
and how at night he turned
from the southern stars to
pray towards Mecca, how he
was a boy in the Punjab and
how he had found Uncle
Seyed . . .
Uncle Seyed! His stories
were different not quite
always gentle, not always real
—but somehow, sometimes,
we believed them an 4
remembered them as we
remembered nothing else.
Perhaps it was because he told
us so few ; he was shy with us.
Perhaps it was because his
stories were for grown-ups;
he was the one who made
Father laugh. But his story of
the outlaws was a story only
for me, and I remember it.
The day I heard it was
a day like any day. That’s how
it started.
It was a hot day, it was
summer ; it was the farm, there
were jobs to be done. Father
was in the paddock with the
sheep. My sister Rashida and I
were helping Ama in the
kitchen. The smell of spice was
everywhere; Ama was making
curry.
She was roasting the seeds
of cummin, coriander, black
pepper. She was softening
them for the grinding, when
they could be blended with
clove, cardiman, chilli, cinna-
mon and mace.
Rashida was cutting mangoes
and _ lemons into quarters,
ready to be turned into
chutney.
I was too young to be allowed
a knife and I sat at the table by
her and stalked the chillis, so
that they could be salted and
set in trays on the roof, to dry
in the sun.
The sun was everywhere in
the kitchen, in Rashida’s sing-
ing and in the rows of new-
washed bottles that were wait-
ing foe Ama’s curry-powder.
They sparkled so that I
watched them and suddenly,
when the sun moved, they
dazzled me so that I put my
hand to my eyes.
My eyes began to stab me,
and I cried out with pain.
“What is it? What is it,
Nimmi?” Ama dropped her
pan of seeds and ran to hold
me while I cried. Rashida
laughed.
“Stupid! ” she said. “She had
chilli on her hand and she
rubbed it in her eyes. She’s too
young to be in the kitchen.”
She went on cutting mangoes
and looking grown-up. Ama
frowned at her, told me not to
cry and got the earthen jug of
water to bathe my eyes.
The water was cool and heal-
ing. The pain grew less, but I
leant hard against Ama and
whimpered ; it was not often I
was given so much attention.
Rashida looked envious.
AMA washed my hands.
“Rashida and I will finish
this,” she said. “You go into
the garden. Play with Lai and
Baby.”
Rashida chopped away and
smiled at me as though she
were grown-up. Not happily I
went into the garden.
Lai was there, putting stones
around a flower-bed. “Always
making yourself dirty!” 1 said
to him.
The baby was in her pram,
under the jasmine vine. She
was kicking her naked feet and
laughing. I waggled a finger at
her. She caught it and put it
in her mouth, but
I pulled it away
sternly.
“You’re too
young,” I said.
“You’re too
young and
stupid to know
about chilli. You
are lucky, Jamila, that I
washed it off.”
I looked at my finger.
“You’ve got a tooth,” I said.
“You’ve got a tooth!” I opened
her mouth. There were two —
two white bumps. .
“Lai!” I shouted. “Jamila
has a tooth! Two teeth!
Come and see.”
Lai came running with his
spade and his dirty hands. He
grasped the side of the pram
and pulled himself up on to his
toes so that he could see.
“Show me,” he said.
I opened her mouth.
“Oh, the clever baby,” said
Lai. “The clever baby.”
I laughed and ran towards
the kitchen. Rashida was
washing her hands at the tank.
“Jamila has teeth. Come and
see.”
I ran back to the pram and
Rashida followed me. Even
she ran.
I pulled open the baby’s
mouth to show her, but this
time Baby objected ; it was no
longer a game. She screamed.
“Oh hush, hush,” 1 said to
her. “Don’t let Ama hear.
Ama will hate us if you cry.”
Rashida rocked the pram the
way that Ama did. “Little
dove,” she pleaded, just like
Ama. “Little rose-petal, hush.”
But the little rose - petal
screwed up its face and
screamed more fiercely than
before.
“What wrong?” said a voice.
“What wrong?”
TT was Uncle Seyed come
into the garden.
“She cries,” said Rashida.
“All the time, she cries.” She
rocked the pram so frantically
that Uncle Seyed laughed. He
took charge then, the way he
always did when he thought we
were funny.
“Not the way,” he said.
“That’s not the way. I show
you.” He rocked the pram
gently, very gently, and leant
over the baby. She looked up
at him, and stopped for a
breath. He grabbed her then
and lifted her from the pram,
held her up so quickly and so
high that she laughed. Then he
carried her round the garden
rocking her, playing with her,
lifting her to see - things
and singing all the time
the way that he and Father
sang—not the gentle or the gay
songs of Ama and Rashida but
the quali- songs of the Punjab,
the high-pitched wailing that
the baby loved.
She even stopped laughing.
She gazed at him with awe. He
put her back in the pram.
“She likes singing,” he said.
“That the way.”
“/ don’t like quail,” I said.
“It sounds like dingoes.”
“Why you no speak
English?” said Uncle Seyed.
He always spoke English to us,
his sort of English. “Your
father speak Punjabi all time
and he speak not English. You
speak English all time and you
speak good English, like me.”
I looked at him and tried
not to laugh. The trying must
have made me look sad
because when Rashida went
(Continued on page 56)


news
A.M.P.
for private company directors
r
l
A
m
■
IS
wmmmm
mmmm
■m
mmm
A new plan for key men has recently beep,
introduced by the A.M.P. Society*?
This plan has remarkable advantages in helping
you to solve your INCOME TAX and DEATH DUTY
problems.
Contact your A.M.P*,, Representative, or 6
telephone call to the nearest A.M.P. office will
bring you full information,
RING^
Sydney—B 0530 Melbourne —MBI7BT
Brisbane —FA 1981 Adelaide—LA 2372
Perth—BA 2001 Hobart—B 7621
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE; 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY • GENERAL MANAGER:" M. C. BUTTFIELD


The Han on
the Handkerchief
By A. B. SHERLOCK
(5)
[Brought up as a pnshite in The
Rocks, Sydney, and eventually
persuaded by promoter Ted Alex-
ander into going; to America, Griffo,
though doing his “training’-' in
the saloons, more than held his
own with the world topnotchers
in, or near, the lightweight
division.]
February, 1895, was a
peaceful month for Griffo,
but in March—sustained,
Alexander says, by plenty
of beer—he fought seven times.
Some of these contests were
only three days apart.
He began by defeating Horace
Leeds, a crack lightweight, at
Coney Island. Four days later
he fought a draw with Jimmy
Dime at Boston. Boston’s
illustrious son, John L. Sulli-
van, one of Griffo’s bar-room
cronies, was at the ringside.
The graceless urchin in the
ring chattered off-handedly to
Sullivan all the time, and as an
incidental pushed Dime about
like a bag of cabbages.
He bobbed up next in
Philadelphia, where he tussled
with welterweights Bull
McCarthy, Jack Hanley and
Jerome Quigley, in no-decision
bouts. Returning to New York,
he won in six rounds from Joe
Harman and Eddie Curry.
In the next two months he
disposed of George Reynolds
at Albany and Charlie Barnett
at New York in six-round
affairs. He loafed through the
summer, and then casually
drifted into another
match —Kid Lavigne, over 20
rounds.
Lavigne was recognised in
America, after McAuliffe
retired, as the world’s light-
weight champion, and he con-
solidated the claim later on by
knocking the daylights out of
the British champion, Dick
Burge. The Saginaw Kid was
one of the most determined
fighters on record.
The match was to be at Bay-
onne, New Jersey, but arrange-
ments, as at Roby previously,
were wrecked by the
authorities. Three weeks later,
on October 12, the men were
finally permitted to shape-up at
the Empire Club of Maspeth,
Long Island.
Griffo stripped in fattish con-
dition which the experts
deplored, but he startled them
by putting up an amazing
exhibition. The entire- 20
rounds was a cataract of torren-
tial action.
“Griffo,” says one eye-
witness, “outfought and out-
pointed the Kid, and did not
have a mark on him. The Kid’s
mouth was cut and his eye
closed.”
In most quarters the decision,
a draw, was found reasonable
enough. In Alexander’s
opinion, this contest was
Griffo’s greatest performance,
considering that eight weeks
later Lavigne went on to beat
the fabulous “Giant Killer,”
Joe Walcott.
The welterweight Walcott
was a notorious toppler of
ring Goliaths, amongst them
the heavyweight Joe Choynski.
In the early part of 1901
Choynski went down to Gal-
veston, Texas, and in three
rounds knocked-out a promis-
ing darkie named Jack Johnson.
From this set of results
emerges the haywire conclusion
that Griffo was capable of
flattening the future heavy-
weight champion of the world.
Thus does Sport bamboozle
Mathematics.
THE year 1895 continued to
be Griffo’s most active
year. He was 24 years old,
and at the summit of his
powers. A fortnight after the
furious affair with Lavigne, he
appeared before the Man-
hattan Athletic Club, New
York, in a third struggle with
Dixon. Griffo’s condition,
despite all the fighting he had
packed into the year, was
nothing to admire, but perhaps
it didn’t matter, because the
bout was limited to 10 rounds.
There were no secrets now
between the two oddly-gifted
rivals; in fact, they were
almost reaching the point
where they combined like
dancing-partners. Dixon put
on his usual snappy and stylish
performance, but he stopped
short of desperate measures
designed to bring Griffo down
in a heap on the floor. JJe had
statistics to prove that trying
to knock Griffo out was simply
pouring good energy down the
drain. The decision, of course,
was a draw.
In November Griffo fought
two quick no-decision battles at
Philadelphia, against Jack
Randall and Jack Hanley, and
six days later, on November 18,
came up against the dashing
Joe Gans.
There was a galaxy of Negro
lightweights in the ’nineties,
but Gans, “The Old Master,”
is remembered as the most
glittering performer of them all.
He was three years younger
than Griffo, and taller by 2-j
inches. He had the habit of
reasoning things out, and he
took his trade seriously. He
was always reaching out after
improvement, perhaps even
perfection. To assimilate the
know-how of a new feint or
side-step he would squander
weeks at practice. His sparring-
partners, instead of facing a
session of brisk bash-and-
walfop, often found themselves
called on to deliver identical
punches in a sort of production-
line. Thus they pumped out
strings of straight-lefts, while
Joe experimented with clever
and painful counters.
These dancing-class rehear-
sals in the gymnasium, boring
to onlookers, paid-heavy divi-
dends: Gans built himself into
one of the most formidable
fighting-machines ever let loose
in the ring. At this time he had
not yet rocketed into the world’s
lightweight championship. He
was on his way up, with 21
recorded fights, which did not
include a defeat.
He met Griffo at Baltimore,
his home town, under the
auspices of the Eureka Club,
and general opinion before the
match was that Griffo would
win easily. It proved to be
merely another draw.
It was not the sort of affair
which is commemorated for
years afterwards. Gans showed
little enterprise, while Griffo
loafed through the rounds with-
out disclosing any yearning to
exterminate Joe. There were
stray eruptions of rapid-fire
sparring, and some passages of
staccato brilliance, but by and
large the spectacle fell flat. At
the end of ten indifferent
rounds, there was not much
applause ; in fact, Griffo heard
grumbles of dissatisfaction.
This brought him to the ropes
for one of his orations. He
could have done better, he
declared in his hoarse voice,
but Gans’s manager had wanted
the affair to run the full ten
rounds. Nothing would give
him more pleasure, he added,
than to fight Gans to a “finish”
(i.e.i 45 rounds) there and then.
“This didn't make the spec-
tators any happier,” one press-
man reported.
and Gans were not
to meet again for practi-
cally two years. In those two
years Griffo was to live
through a series of ups and
downs. Principally downs.
He returned to New York,
where he had already estab-
lished himself as one of the
city’s chief bugbears. Out of
the ring, he had nothing to do
but indulge in his own peculiar
brand of drinking and monkey-
business, and for these pastimes
he had limitless leisure.
O. Henry, who had a mental
album of New York’s crazy
types, could not miss a specimen
like Griffo. Conceivably the
author of “Hygeia at the
Solito” remembered Griffo in
his snapshot of a sawn-off
pugilist:
Bright brad.v of eye, bony of cheek
and Jaw, scarred and toughened,
broken and re-knit, indestructible,
grisly, gladiatorial as a hornet.
Gladiatorial or not, Griffo
was certainly a hornet. A few
days after his return he ambled
into Martin Dowling’s Gotham
saloon, drunk and truculent,
hiding some object in his
pocket. He addressed-the bar-
tender : “Say, 1 think I’ll blow
your head off!” There was a
mild panic. When arrested, he
was found to have no weapon,
and the charge was “disorderly
conduct.”
Rough-cut tomfoolery of this


kind had an irresistible appeal
for Griffo. His ravenous ego-
demanded stage-centre. “Look
at me!” was his only attitude,
and if his overtures were
snubbed, he would open
with promiscuous insult and
abuse. This always commanded
a lot of attention, some of it
hostile.
A few days later he was
found at the corner of 7th
Avenue and 29th Street swear-
ing and orating at the passers-
by. He was told to move on by
a policeman called Enright—
possibly Richard Enright, sub-
sequently Commissioner of
Police. Griffo stood his ground.
“Teddy Roosevelt couldn't
make me. Are you a bigger
man than Teddy?”
Theodore Roosevelt, who
five years later was President,
was at the time occupying
himself by being Governor of
New York.
“I don’t say I am,” Enright
answered. “But I can still take
you along.” And although
Griffo shaped up tipsily he was
taken along. Shamefaced the
next morning, he explained,
“Dat old booze knocks me
quicker than any fighter could.”
Somebody paid the three-
dollar fine for him.
HE name of Teddy Roose-
W velt had always come easily
to the public tongue; even
before the Rough Riders and
the charge up San Juan Hill he
was a figure of repute with the
man in the street. Apart from
this, Griffo probably had
personal reasons for remember-
ing him.
Some time earlier Griffo had
been engaged to show his paces
before an extremely select New
York gymnastic club —not an
athletic club of the common
ei dollar-a-head sort, but the
gilt-edged and exclusive kind.
Members not only owned
dinner-suits, but wore them to
important club fixtures.
Griffo was to box four
rounds with a welterweight
amateur ; the proceedings were
to be active, but dignified.
On , the day a whisper
reached the committee that
Griffo, instead of saving his
energies for the occasion, was
making merry in the nearest
saloon. After a quick inspec-
tion his sponsors were in a
quandary. It would hardly do,
they felt, to present this toss-
pot as their leading attraction.
On the other hand, if they
called everything off and with-
held Griffo’s fee he was likely
, to show up and make things
uncomfortable all round.
At this stage one of the
committee came up with a
Napoleonic stratagem. Why
not, he suggested, make Griffo
so drunk that he would forget
everything about the night’s
arrangements? It seemed an
easy way out; two notorious
tipplers were rounded up,
supplied with finance, and
instructed to drink Griffo into
the ground. The party got
under way uproariously, and
the club’s reputation seemed
secure.
But a few hours later the
officials wefe once more in a
panic. Word came that an
eminent politician named
Johnston would be in attend-
ance, bringing with him none
other than Teddy Roosevelt —
both drawn by the reputation
of “Young Griffo.”
It looked as if “Young
Griffo” would have to be
found.
Hustling from saloon to
saloon in a cab, the officials
felt they were on a hot scent
when they found one of the
party dead to the world at a
table stacked with empty
glasses. Griffo and the other
had moved on.
They were finally discovered
in the thickest part of a crowd
down a side-street. They were
running a foot-race for a
hundred dollars. The distance
was short, but neither had
completed the course ; the taller
man kept falling dpwn, and
when that happened Griffo
insisted every time on returning
to scratch for a fresh start.
The cab’s arrival interrupted
what might have been the tenth
start. This interference with
clean sport and fair play upset
Griffo. He made a speech. But
he was finally persuaded into
the cab, where he fell asleep.
He awoke in the humid climate'
of a Turkish-bath, where relays
of muscular attendants were
slapping, scrubbing and
swabbing him. He was shaved,
and his hair was trimmed.
Griffo was used to these
ministrations and made no
protest. The fact was he
rather liked being the core of a
knot of anxiety ; it tickled his
sense of importance. While
everybody fussed about he
relaxed in boozy bonhomie like
a wayward princeling.
They got him to the ringside
FOLEY v. BURKE
Griffo (as described in an earlier instalment) was in his
Sydney days one of the several topliners who were star
attractions at Larry Foley’s “Iron Pot” gym. Foley
came out of retirement to meet Jack Burke, “the Irish
Lad,” in the encounter depicted above by Phil May.
Afterwards Larry went back to his pub and his gym.,
THE BULLEITN. commenting: “Ten years ago Foley
would have knocked Burke out in a couple of rounds,”
slightly dizzy and over-talka-
tive ; when somebody men-
tioned the name of Teddy
Roosevelt he stiffened to
attention. He stopped chatter-
ing and boasting, asked where
Roosevelt was sitting, and,
getting into the ring, put on a
professional and almost fault-
less display.
The chief committeeman was
stifnned. He groped for words.
“That man,” he said after
deep reflection, “could ride a
camel through hell blind-
folded.”
MOW Griffo at this stage,
and throughout the later
part of his career, was able to
loaf and dissipate and yet stand
up against the hardest fighters
of the time is not fully
explained by his fortunate
physique and built-in tough-
ness. The secret was that a lot
of his days were spent in the
austere quarantine of prison.
“He utilises the Raymond
Street jail as a hotel,” one
writer discovered. “He will
come out of it in a few weeks
in far better condition than
when he entered it —and will be
in hard luck if -he hasn’t a
match made for him when he
emerges.”
If some of his acquaintances
wished he would make greater
use of these health-resorts, it
was not always his welfare that
they had in mind. Locked up,
he was no fretting captive ; he
found ways of passing the
time. When a visitor came to
his cell, he would sooner or
later draw attention to a fly
crawling on the wall or hum-
ming overhead.
“Bet you a dollar I catch that
fly.”
The same terrible instinct
which stood behind him in the
ring told him in advance what a
fly would do. His range-finder
eyes balanced its speed and
direction, his hand flicked
through the air; when he
unfolded his fingers, the fly
would blunder out unharmed.
Griffo’s other hand would be
extended for the dollar. Oh
days when visitors were plenti-
ful he was the best-paid toiler
on the premises.
He was very fond of padding
about on uncovered and horny
feet, to the distress of shoe-
softened brothers who winced
at his indifference to rough
pavements. Once in Milwaukee
he was before the court on a
drunkenness charge. The
evidence recited that he was
barefooted at the time. This
Griffo sharply disputed.
“I wasn’t barefooted,” he
(Continued on page 39)


Sputniks and Western Security
By "ADASTRA"
WHEN the Russians fired a satellite
into outer space a few months ago,
and followed it with yet another weighing
more and with animal-life aboard, some
remarkably accurate —and inaccurate —
deductions were made among nations of
the West. Because the Russians were
first into space, it was said, they must
have an intercontinental ballistic-missile
in operational use as weir as a good range
of other guided weapons. Clearly, the
prophets maintained, the West had been
overtaken in the race for armament
superiority—the sputnik feat was ample
evidence.
Furthermore, it was being argued,
Western strategic air-power, which has
been the shield behind which we have
lived almost normal lives for the past 10
years, was out-of-date and the sooner we
concentrated less effort on what we
imagined were modern military aircraft,
and more on “missilry,” the sooner would
we restore the right balance between
Soviet military power and that of our
allies. How much of this is true and how
much of it due to bad nerves in an acute
\var of nerves?
In a trouble-free world, the Russian
achievement would have been hailed as
a milestone along the path of mankind
in his struggle to conquer the elements
and space. But among freedom-loving
nations of the West, the Russian feat was
recognised for what it is—a challenge to
the security upon which our freedom and
our way of life is based.
If the Russian success had done no
more than compel free nations to doubt
the efficacy of their military security it
would have been bad enough. Worse
than that is happening, though—the
dismal prophets say the Russians are
taking the lead in the last arms-race the
world will know. From here it is but a
short step to the final doubt —why con-
tinue to spend large sums on the mainten-
ance of conventional arms, particularly
air-forces?
Our most tragic folly would be to be
ensnared in the Soviet trap of being led to
doubt the value of the military forces we
have —particularly strategic air-forces.
This is what the Russians have been trying
to persuade us to do for the past 10 years,
for their actions rather than their words
show that they fear the policy of
“deterrence” and strategic air-power more
than anything.
The Meaning of Sputniks
What are the threats implied in the
success of the Russian earth-satellite
experiments? Firstly, we have to accept
that the Russians have moved swiftly
and unerringly in the last four years.
Although the United States gained four
years’ start with their firing of an A-bomb,
they fired their H-bomb in the same year
as the Russians, and now have been
beaten, temporarily anyway, in the race
into space. In brief, the sputniks mean
this:
(1) The Western world is given warning:
Russian technological development in the
last few years must have been immense.
(2) The success of the eajth-satellite
experiment has had a profound psycho-
logical effect on the world outside the Iron
Curtain. Already the Russians are taking
good care to see this message is brought
home fully to “waverers” among the
Western alliance. What they are saying, in
effect, is what Communism has done for us,
it can do for you, too. What has Capitalism
to offer to equal it?
(3) The sputnik feat lends strength to
the Russian claim to have fired inter-
continental ballistic-missiles into Siberia last
August at a range of 5000 miles.
(4) It is quite possible to mount cameras
in an earth-satellite and photograph any
point on earth at about eighty-minute
intervals. „ Therefore, secret areas cannot
remain secret for much longer.
Air-power Is the Target
If the Russian claim to have an inter-
continental ballistic-missile is true, why is
Western strategic air-power the target of
consistent Russian diplomacy? Why, if
they have these guided-weapons of all
sorts, do they take every opportunity to
try to force the West to stop the con-
struction and use of long-range bomber-
bases around the world?
Similarly, if Russian development is so
far ahead of our Allies, and they do have
weapons of this type in use as they claim,
why are they themselves concentrating
much of their aircraft-capacity on the
production of long-range bombers similar
to those of Strategic Air Command?
Only a few weeks ago in Moscow,
Mr. Khrushchev said when interviewing
newspaper-correspondents “You can
burn all your bombers now.”
Despite Russian claims to have the
most modem weapons actually in use,
they show the greatest anxiety that the
West should abandon the policy of
“instant and massive retaliation,” and
with it the force of strategic air-power
which gives the policy any reality. Yet
they continue to build the very weapon
which they maintain is outmoded.
Could it be that the Russians, with
good reason, still fear the strategic air-
weapon? Because they know that in a
war of this type there can be no victor,
only two vanquished? After all, there is
no defence from the bomber, and there
never has been. The Russians know they
cannot defend themselves from strategic
air-power. When President Eisenhower
was informed of Khrushchev’s remarks
about burning bombers, he said
“Khrushchev takes this line to cover-up
his fear that the United States can hit all
Russian targets from global bases.”
The Policy of Deterrence
It was Marshal Foch who said once,
“Change is in the nature of all things.”
This is true of air-power as it is of any-
thing else. Sometimes change is for good
—and at other times for worse —but it is
a never-ending process. From the fabric-
covered, rickety aircraft of World War I
the weapon of strategic air-power has
emerged. Combined wtih the nuclear
threat, it represents the Great Deterrent,
the threat of total and widespread devas-
tation to any Power such as Russia, with
the self-confessed objective of world-
domination. Strategic air-power poses
this threat today, it has done so for 10
. years, and will continue to do so for a
good while yet. It is the bulwark —and
the only bulwark—of Western civilisation.
It would be a tragedy to delude our-
selves, or even allow our allies to delude
themselves, that because of sweeping
Russian claims of intercontinental mis-
siles, and because of their satellite suc-
cesses, then it follows that our air-power
must be out-of-date and therefore in need
of less money, effort and, above all, good-
will to sustain its strength than before.
Our Immediate Task
In the dangerous years ahead we must
maintain and nurture our only strength.
The Russians fear it. No one must doubt
that the new weapons will come along,
and when they do, there must be a gradual
transition-period from the manned to
the unmanned —it will be no overnight
transformation.
Meanwhile, there is no justification
for any weakening in our faith in
strategic air-power. Despite the attrac-
tive promise of “defence on the cheap,”
only the threat of massive and instant
retaliation has kept the peace, and can
keep the peace in the immediate future
—uneasy as that peace may be.
But it can only do so if the aerial
striking-force, which gives that policy
teeth, is kept as an efficient, effective and.
ready force. Each year the cost of main-
taining this force must increase, but so
do the consequences of failure. Any
weakening in our effort to maintain the .
deterrent force may invite disaster.
The Pattern of New Western Arms
Although the U.S.A. was outdistanced
in the race to launch an earth-satellite, is
this in itself an event of such gloom and
despondency as we are told? The pro-
gramme of development in the U.S.A. is
far from lacking in promise.
If massive retaliation against the
Russians became necessary, it is an un-
disputed fact that losses of our bombers
would be high. But some would always
get through—there is no such defence as
“annihilation defence” against them. A
guided bomb which the U.S. is now test-
ing will ensure that a much higher pro-
portion reach their targets than before.
It is released up to 100 miles from a
target, and in recent tests the U.S.A.F.
scored four direct-hits in four tests.
An air-to-air weapon has been
developed which is fired from a fighter
against an attacking bomber and has been
(Continued on page 55)


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Jackpot Try-out
Whether the jackpot betting-
scheme is good for racing, or is
likely to have the reverse effect,
can hardly be judged on results
to date. This fantastic wager-
ing plan brought some
thousands of newcomers to
Canterbury Park last Saturday,
helping to swell attendance to
31,000, which is close to the
track’s record. It naturally
v/as a bigger crowd than had
been the order at recent
fixtures, but more than 21,000
went to the trots the same
night, and the later-than-usual
finish at Canterbury didn’t
give trotting fans much of a
break between the meetings.
However, as most punters won
at both fixtures, it made quite
a pleasant day, apart from the
bracing weather.
As confidently anticipated—
Canterbury often supplies
short-priced winners—the jack-
pot went off, 84 units at ss.
being each worth £968 6s. 9d.
One backer who has been rock-
ing the jackpot pool again
sLared in the rake-off, this time
to the extent of £B7l5 —nine
units. It cost him about £3OOO
or so, but he is a figures expert
and a well-known judge of
form. He is reputed to have
won about £17,000 in three
pools since first Jackpot day,
December 21.
From the gross pool of about
£93,160, a net £81,341 was
available for distribution, so,
in addition to the lucky
winners, the Sydney Turf Club,
the Government and the tote
company all found the jackpot
a money-spinner.
Recent racing at Randwick
and Canterbury points the way
tc interesting early-autumn
clashes in big sprints between
New Spec, Dubbo and Gold
Stakes. The last-named came
to light with a dashing win
at Canterbury.' He ran the
six furlongs in close to record
time, and was being eased up
at the finish. It was his first
outing for more than six
months, but he made opponents
appear a batch of second-
raters. It’s expected that this
brilliant sprinter, who has been
lightly raced but has won at
his last three starts, will be
taken to Melbourne for the
Oakleigh Plate and the New-
market, and he may also be a
runner in the Lightning Stakes
(February 8), though the Light-
ning opposition might be a bit
vvarm for him, especially as it is
tun at weight for age over five
furlongs.
Levardo’s easy win in the
main distance-event at Canter-
bury followed his last in the
Villiers, which had followed his
win in the International Stakes
at Canterbury. The fact is that
Levardo is something of a
Canterbury specialist, and, any-
way, not many would pick him
as an ideal Randwick horse. It
was his sixth win for trainer
"Perhaps- YOU can get it away from him, doctor."
Herb McNamara, four of them
at Canterbury.
New Cask, winner of the
opening event at Canterbury,
is owned in the Newcastle
district, but is trained at
Randwick by Ted Halcroft. A
daughter of Newtown Wonder
(imp.) and Val Cask, she was
bred by her owner, T. K.
Fines. Her dam is by Valiant
Chief from Decanter by Talk-
ing from Glass Bowl by Air
Balloon (imp.). Odds-on In
Love, who finished • second,
also filled minor places at his
only two prior starts, being at
short odds each time.
Now that he has won a
Graduation Stakes with 9st. the
consistent Merger will have to
compete in open company ; his
Canterbury win was his fourth
in a row, all in restricted
company. Merger is a five-
year-old gelding by Nebris
(imp.) from Mary Magnus.
He’s bred to stay.
Consistent country winner
Jenny’s Star ran away from
speedster (and favorite) Ardent
Gene (not noted for stamina)
in the Third Ashbury Stakes
at Canterbury. The three-year-
old filly by High Caste from
Acceleration has now won
eight races from 14 starts, so
she has well repaid the 210gns.
she cost as a yearling at the
1956 Rand wick auction.
Trained by Grenfell mentor
M. W. Makin, she will win
better races before the season
is over.
Randwick trainer E. D.
Lawson showed judgment in
giving the Blue Meadow mount
in the Second Ashbury to his
apprentice, R. Greenwood. The
youngster rode a perfect race
to win by a long head from
Matonga, ridden by G. Moore.
The 71b. allowance made the
difference between winning and
losing.
Tattersall's Club (Sydney)
was far from happy when only
seven horses competed for its
Carrington Stakes (first day)
and only three lined-up for the
Cup on the second day. Both
legs of the doubles went to
odds-on favorites, New Spec in
the sprint, Monte Carlo in
the Cup. Neither winner was
extended, New Spec comfort-
ably downing Royal Kingdom
and Heavenly Star, and Monte
Carlo easily beating Field Chief
and Half Hennesy.
Most of the best performers
are now back from a spell and
about to begin an autumn
preparation on the Sydney
tracks. The list includes
Tulloch, Prince Delville, King-
ster, Todman and Teranyan.
The last-named never looked
bigger or better ; now a five-
year-old, he should do well in
races up to one mile or so.
Stayers have to be good to
win handicap events over a
two-mile journey leading all the
way, as Auckland Cup favorite
Red Eagle did in that £11,500
event, run on New Year’s Day.
Red Eagle won, pulling up, by
six lengths, with second-
favorite Passive next and True
Brudge third (a further three
lengths away). The winner
carried 8.4 and equalled the
race record, 3.19|, which is
only a fraction outside Aus-
tralia’s best. He is a four-year-
old gelding by Revelation (imp.)
from Lady Cometary by Day
Comet (imp.).
* * *
In Melbourne
Many of those at Fleming-
ton on New Year’s Day must
have been attracted by the
chance of seeing “Scobic”
Breasley in- action again ; the
attendance tvas the biggest at a
New Year’s Day fixture for 10
years. Breasley did his part —
he rode two winners and a
second from four mounts.
It was interesting to see the
change in Breasley’s riding
style. He has deserted the
typical Australian crouch for
the more upright seat common
to English jockeys; and he
now uses the whip with more
flourish. The changes have not
affected his ability. Both his
wins were scored in tight
finishes, where his skill and
vigor were the deciding factors.
Nonetheless, the Australian
style is more attractive to
watch.
Breasley’s first mount was a
winner—Master Rane in the
Stradbroke Stakes ;*lhe fourth
successive win for the Sans
Tache (imp.) colt. No better-
looking youngster has raced in
Melbourne this season. He is
a strong, handsome chestnut
who thrives on work to such
an extent that trainer Fred
Hoysted intends to keep him
in light work until his prepara-
tion is smartened up for the
Sires’ Produce Stakes on
March I. Gippsland farmers
A. W. Giles and R. L. Brown
race Master Rane —bred by
Giles from his mare, Lerane.
Master Rane has now won
£3350 from seven starts.
Smart three-year-old Sports
Quiz had a runaway win in
the Standish Handicap and


became the first colt to win
the race since Chatsbury in
1940. In fact, only eight three-
year-olds have won the race
since it was first run in 1884.
Williamson, who rode the
winner, had previously won the
Standish on Ungar (1950) and
Gay Saint (1952). Sports Quiz
has been up since the early
spring and his remarkably con-
sistent form is a tribute to
trainer D. M. Bradfield, who
intends to set him for ‘ the
Oakleigh Plate and the New-
market. Back in 1902, Brad-
field’s father, Richard, won the
Standish with The Victory,
who went on to win the Mel-
bourne Cup in the same year.
Rockman brothers Phil and
Norman (Melbourne depart-
ment-store owners), who have
had a lot of success in the past
year or so with Mac’s Amber,
Sir William and Contra, now
own one of the smartest fillies
in Melbourne—the two-year-
old All Cherry. At Caulfield,
on Boxing Day, All Cherry was
most impressive in winning a
fillies event, and even more
so at Moonee Valley last
Saturday, when she gave weight
and an effortless beating to a
a field of colts and fillies. She
is out of Mercy by the English
horse, Bob Cherry.
Following her win in a two-
year-old event last June it was
suggested here that Demi-
monde might be one to watch
during the spring carnival.
However, the daughter of
Hellespont is little more than
pony-size, and trainer “Bon”
Hoysted elected to dodge the
carnival and give the filly time
to mature. She reappeared at
Moonee Valley last Saturday
and scored a most impressive
first-up win. She is sure to
win better races. Owned by
Sir Rupert Clarke, Demimonde
is by Hellespont out of Cos-
mopolitan by Le Grand Due
from Miss England (a half-
sister to Heroic) by Sea Prince.
• • • •
A remarkable feature of
racing at Moonee Valley last
Saturday was that the Hoysted
family trained five of the eight
winners on the programme.
Veteran Fred prepared one
winner, his son Bon scored a
double, and his nephews,
Murray, from Geelong, and
Hal, from Wangaratta, both
brought a winner to the city.
• • « •
In any company Bill
Williamson is an outstanding
rider. These days, when Mel-
bourne racing is experiencing
the most serious dearth of
senior jockeys in its history,
he’s having a royal time. Last
Saturday he rode a treble at
Moonee Valley, and he has
now ridden 13 winners at the
last five metropolitan meetings.
* * *
The Trots
Fettle (from 12yds. behind)
scored his seventh consecutive
win at Harold Park on Satur-
day night, in the first qualify-
ing division of the Summer
Handicap. Starting at 5 to 2
on, the six-year-old champion
recorded the smart time of
3.37|sec.~for the 13i furlongs,
beating Powerful Lady’s race
record of 3.3B|sec. held
since November, 1954. Fettle,
who held off a strong challenge
from Tense Ayr, covered the
last mile in 2min. 4sec. Then,
in the second qualifying divi-
sion, Malniri (from 24yds.
behind) recorded the smarter
time of 3min. 35sec.
The three Carnival Handicap
heats were respectively won by
Kildare’s Star (7 to 2), in
3min. 47sec.; Diabolo Don
(favorite at 2 to 1 on) in
3min. 44fsec.; and Brusque
(favorite at 5 to 2 on) in
3min. 44fsec.; While smart
beginner Match Point led all
the way for a convincing win
in the Harold Park Flying
Mile.
• • • •
The crowd of 21,045 (3000-
odd above previous meetings)
augurs well for the success of
the Summer Carnival, which
will continue on Friday,
January 10, when further heats
of the Summer and Carnival
Handicaps will be run, with
the finals and the £6OOO Harold
Park Cup on the 17th.
f +
Davis Cup
At Kooyong, straight after
Christmas, Australia retained the
Davis Cup for the second successive
year—therefore its third successive
win. Ever since (through the agency
of Sedgman, McGregor and
Bromwich) it got back the Cup in
1950, Australia has won the Cup
every year except 1954. It’s won
eight times in all, the first being in
1939. With N.Z. then included,
Australasia had six wins between
1907 and 1919, the first three being
in succession.
After the first two singles, even
though each went to five sets, it
looked as if Australia was headed
for a hat-trick of 5-0 challenge-
round wins. After the doubles it was
3-0 (and victory) to Australia; but
the Americans fought back to take
the second two singles. With the
two countries in reverse position, it
was the 1954 result over again; that
year Seixas and Trabert won the
opening singles (over. Rosewall and
Hoad respectively) and, paired, won
the doubles; but Rosewall then
defeated Trabert and Hartwig, in
place of an injured Hoad, beat
Seixas, to reduce it to the same
margin of victory.
Except for Seixas, the three others
in the singles were all playing in their.
first challenge-round. Yet the
greatest strain must have been on
the American, Mac Kay, who came
to Australia not expecting to play
in the challenge-round and without
any important title-win behind him,
as both Anderson and Cooper had.
But Mac Kay did well enough to
prove that he’ll be a force in the
future. The two Australians both
played very good tennis, and should
continue to represent Australia. As
for Seixas, playing what will prob-
ably be his last challenge-round
(though he’s said that before) —
grand fighter and sportsman as he is,
he went out on a fairly high note,
saving four match-points against
Anderson, and going on to win.
The last time the opening two
singles in a Davis Cup challenge-
round both went to five sets was in
1913, when Parke (British Isles) beat
the lately deceased “California
Comet,” M. E. McLoughlin, 8-10,
7- 6-4, 1-6, 7-5, and Williams
(U.S.A.) beat Dixon (British Isles),
8- 3-6, 6-2, 1-6, 7-5. (U.S.A. won
in 1913, 3-2; all games that year
went to five sets except McLoughlin’s
straight-sets win over Dixon on the
last day.) In 1957 it was the first
time ever in a challenge-round that
all four singles went to five sets
each; and the 13-11 in the last set
of Seixas v. Anderson was a record
length for a challenge-round fifth
set.
The doubles, won by Rose and
Anderson in straight sets 6-4, 6-4,
8-6, was a triumph for Rose.
The set-up in the doubles, though
not exactly parallel, was reminiscent
of the 1953 doubles, when a scratch
pair, Hoad and Hartwig, were
thrown in against Seixas and
Trabert, and were whipped in
straight sets, 6-2, 6-4, 6-4. In this
case the American pair, Seixas and
Mac Kay, though they had played
once or twice before, were virtually
a scratch pair, and had had no
tournament-play together as had
Rose and Anderson. Still, the Aus-
tialian pair that Friday would have
toppled any available American
combination.
* * *
Cricket
The first Test at Johannesburg
between Australia and South
Africa ended in a draw. It was an
even game, and could have gone
cither way had there been another
day to play. South Africa, 9-470 and
201; Australia, 368 and 3-162.
Some good first-Test batting-
efforts McGlew (108) and
Goddard (90), with .176 for
South Africa’s first-wicket; Waite’s
U 5 and 59; Endean's 50 and 77;
and McLean’s bright first-innings
50. For Australia, Benaud’s 122,
McDonald 75 and Simpson 60, in
the first innings; and Mackay’s
defensive 65 not-out in the second
innings.
This was Benaud’s ’ second Test-
century. His first, one run less (121)
and one of the fastest Test-centuries
on record, was in the fifth Test
against West Indies at Kingston
(Jamaica) in June, 1955, in a score
oi 8-758. A famous Benaud near-
century (97) was in the second
innings of the second Test against
England at Lord’s in June, 1956, one
of the most important factors in
Australia’s lone Test-win in that
series.
Bowling-honors went to speed—
Peter Heine’s 6-58 in Australia’s
first innings; Davidson’s 6-34 in
South Africa’s second innings, and
Meckiff’s 5-125 and 3-52.
When Australia was 4-62 in its
first-innings collapse, three of those
four Heine victims were snapped-
UP by ’keeper Waite. Similarly, in
an even quicker collapse (4-19) in
South Africa’s second-innings,
Davidson’s first three wickets were
ail caught behind by Grout. The
Queensland ’keeper, who may not
have been picked had Harvey been
til to play—his batting gave him pre-
ference over Jarman —went on to
take six catches, a record for a
’keeper in one Test-innings.
In the second Test, at Cape
Town, another draw seemed
inevitable after Australia's long,
slow first innings; but Australia’s
bowlers and fieldsmen thought
differently, -and that first innings
was to prove 3& solid basis for
victory. Australia 1449) defeated
South Africa (209 and 99) by ah
innings and 141 runs, with about
a day and a half to spare.
Like McGlew and Goddard in
the first Test, r Burke and McDonald
put on nearly 200 for the first-
wicket (190). Burke made his
highest Test-score (189) and
McDonald was out for an unlucky
99; Mackay third-top-scored with
a snail-paced 63.
South Africa’s second innings
resembled its two second-innings
efforts in the first two Tests against
England last season, when it
collapsed each time for a mere 72.
Opening-batsman and very useful
cricketer Trevor Goddard (56 not-
out in the 99) joins the distinguished
few (among whom are Hutton,
Abel and Woodfull) who have
..batted unconquered through a com-
plete Test-innings. Incidentally,
Australia’s Arthur Morris, in his
206 out 0f371 in the fourth 1950-51
Test against England, could well
have put his name among these
elect had lie not unselfishly thrown
away his wicket going for the runs
with only Iverson left with him.
For just about the whole of the
two innings Australia's attack was
without pace-bowler Meckiff —
despite which, however, the bowlers
mostly had the edge on the bats-
men. Those two other very useful
cricketers Benaud and Davidson
each did a grand job with the ball,
and left-arm bowler Kline couldn’t
have finished-off the second
innings (and the Test as a whole)
more suitably than he did, with a
hat-trick.
Among the recent batch of
Sheffield Shield games N.S.W., on
its tour, won outright twice (against
S A. and Victoria) and was beaten
or the first innings by W.A.;
Queensland, also on tour, was
defeated outright by Victoria, had
two first-innings wins (over W.A.
and S.A.) and wa§. beaten on the
first innings by N.S.W. At the
start of its eastern tour S.A., which
against Queensland had at last
got among the runs, was beaten
by Victoria on the first innings. On
the whole it’s a fairly even, and
certainly unpredictable, season.
With the bat generally dominating
the ball, two batsmen have stood
out. One is N.S.W.'s dashing
Norm O'Neill, who in recent knocks
made 114 against S.A., 175 against
Victoria and two good scores (74
and 49) against Queensland. He’s
also taken a few wickets. O’Neill,
perhaps, could have been picked
for South Africa; on the other
band, another season at home may
well benefit him more at the
present stage of his cricketing. He
seems destined for higher honors.
The other outstanding batsman — 1
despite the unusual ignominy for
a batsman of two ‘‘pairs of specs”
iti the one season—is Queensland
cpener Ray Reynolds, who has
thrice topped 150 this season. He’s


jraith in ihc
Another year comes in on the channels of
Time; another season in which to take estimate
of ourselves, and to set our sights to those higher
levels which the recent past has made for all who
would progress in this world.
It is commonplace, perhaps, to say that
Australia is on the verge of dramatic development.
But it is true, and is worth the restatement now.
We can sense it in all that is around us. It
springs from more than normal hope; it is linked
with what is being brought to every race on Earth
by human achievement —with, for ourselves, this
distinction; here, on the fringe of a continent, we
are nine-and-three-quarter million people to whom
has been given a peerless opportunity, not merely
to inherit a nation but to build one.
How soon we honour that opportunity—and
time is a factor in all existence —depends on each
of us, without exception.
I know the Australian character. We are
what we are, and I would be first to proclaim that
the breed is good. But I think it is time to admit
among ourselves that whatever prosperity lies ahead
will only be won by accelerated, efficient and
therefore cheaper production.
The future of this country rests in its farms
and stock runs; in its factories and industries of
many kinds. Accept that unselfishly and as a
national fact, and we are well on towards the
realisation of our common hopes. Reject it, either
wilfully or through carelessness and neglect, and
the way along the years may be slow and laboured.
One thing is certain: This new year is
brighter and richer in promise , than any we have
lived before; but it brings also a call to a fresh
dedication by each one of us to the cause of
prospering Australia by all the effort that lies in
our personal power.
// Xfee'ltiy -
explained. “I just had no boots
on.”
“Is there any difference?” the
judge rapped out.
“Sure.” GrifFo put on his
celebrated leer. “You go bare-
footed, you don’t own no shoes,
you’re a blackfellow. But you
got no boots on, it means you
got boots, only—you kind of
left them off.”
Fined five dollars.
THE suspicion was expressed
that, when news was scarce,
it was easy for the playful press
to revive some drunken antic
and father it on GrifFo.
On March 12, 1896, for
instance, he was written-up in
a razor party with two
Negroes ; his face was slashed
and he had been badly
roughed-up. What made this
remarkable was the coincidence
that another news - starved
journal chose the same date to
feature him in a sidewalk
drama with a 2001 b. bruiser.
It has also been mentioned
in a penetrating whisper that
some of the charges against
GrifFo were trumped-up so as
to keep him in debt to his
bondsmen. It is more than
likely. Certainly his managers
were fond of haying him locked
up for some vague
misdemeanor, so as to keep him
chaste for an impending fight.
He would be bailed out for the
occasion, and the charge would
fade from notice.
The protective devices which
his managers employed against
GrifFo were as wily as GrifFo
was himself. He had a long
assortment of managers. They
never found him difficult on
the division of the spoil;
GrifFo would accept a cluster
of greenbacks without counting
them.
The hard part of the job was
organising GrifFo to earn the
spoil. He had not a glimmer
of responsibility. Getting him
up to scratch was a nerve-
wrecking assignment. The
names of new managers kept
bobbing up in the press, and
disappearing without explana-
tion. It seems likely that some
of them perished from sheer
frustration.
The story goes that one of
his managers was on the point
of walking out on him when
an Englishman named Salmon
offered to take over the con-
tract for fifty dollars. Feeling
a trifle guilty, the retiring
manager freely admitted
Griffo’s astounding skill. “But,”
he added, “he’s got one fault,
a hell of a big fault —he can’t
keep from sousing, he’s a
terrific soak, and that’s going
tc be your big headache.”
“I’ll get that stitched up,”
Salmon said confidently.
A couple of months later the
two met again. The former
manager wanted to know
whether Salmon was keeping
GrifFo off the booze.
“Yes —got that stitched up all
right,” Salmon said. “Every
time he breaks out, I have him
arrested.”
“Fair enough,” said the ex-
manager. “But while he’s
locked up, he ain’t earning.”
“H’m —I know,” Salmon
admitted thoughtfully. “That’s
something I’ve still got to stitch
up.”
(To be continued next week)
the only double-century maker so
lar this season (203 not-out v. S.A.).
All the State skippers have done
well. Victorian captain Loxton has
made two separate centuries, and
played other good hands; N.S.W.’s
Carroll made 111 and 98 against
Queensland, while in the same
match (and appropriately on the
S.C.G.) Lindwall, who bowled very
well all through, passed Ernie
Jones's old record of 209 as the
greatest number of Shield wickets
taken by a fast-bowler; and
Meuleman, of W.A., is one of the
most consistent of Shield batsmen.
S.A. captain Hole, before the
accident which has put him out of
cricket for this season at least, had
made a neat 123 in the first innings
against Victoria; in which game
new S.A. leader Colin Pinch, also
formerly of N.S.W., made a
century (102 each time) in both
innings.
* * *
At Cardiff Arms Park, on a
heavy ground, a Welsh XV
described by local com-
mentators before the game as
“not one of our great teams”
downed the touring Wallabies
9-3, after trailing 3-0 at half-
time. It was an even game.
Both sides scored one try only,
but Australia’s Lenehan failed
badly with the boot.
* * *
The 1957 Sydney-Hobart
yacht-race saw two yachts,
Kurrewa IV and the 1956
winner, Solo, each slice several
hours off the race-record, set
in 1951 by Margaret Rintoul.
Kurrewa IV crossed the line
first for the sixth time in seven
starts. The 38ft. cutter Anitra,
which had come second on
handicap time in 1956, won
the 1957 race on handicap.


GUARD
%
Kiiv Os
PROTECTA
$VntL-$iH Rtgl.
Suitable for every type of business it records
all Sales, Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing In appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing A get
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
Vf. C. Penfold & Co. Pty. Ltd.
• Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
« Vardon Price Ltd.
• Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Wanted to buy, records of Clem
Rogers; also a secondhand
gramophone in good order. —6651.
Name of author of poem called
(I think) “Woman”? First and last
lines:
I am the Spring that makes the blood
Burn red in veins of Sons of Earth.
I am the Thrall of Fate and bear
The burden of the weary world.
—6652.
Does Anybody Know?
Who invented the tin-opener, and
when?
Information Sought
What is the method used in draw
ing the prizewinning numbers in the
N.S.W. State Lottery ?
The following information is sup-
plied by C. T. Tallentire, Director
ol the N.S.W. State Lotteries
Department: In each lottery con-
ducted by the N.S.W. Government
100,000 tickets are sold, and these
tickets are numbered from one to
100,000 inclusive. The lottery-
barrel contains that number of
ballot-balls (or wooden marbles).
These, too, are numbered from one
to 100,000 inclusive. The law
provides that ballot-balls be
extracted from the barrel by
mechanical means and delivered
directly by those means to a repre-
sentative of the N.S.W. Auditor-
General. The major prize-winning
marbles are so extracted by a
member of the public; they are (hen
released into a ladle held by the
director; and, from this ladle, the
marbles are taken by a representative
of the Auditor-General. The
number on each of the major prize-
winning marbles is shown by the
latter, firstly to the director and
then to the member of the public
who it from the barrel, and
then it is announced. When all
major prizewinning ballot-balls in
a particular lottery (five in a ss. 6d.
lottery, eight in a 10s. lottery, five
in a £1 lottery and three in a £5
or Opera House Lottery) have been
oealt with in this way two repre-
sentatives of the Auditor-General
immediately check the numbers on
these marbles against the official
lecord which is compiled as numbers
are announced. Ballot-balls are
then retained in the custody 'of the
Auditor - General’s representative
until the ballot and the final check
of the record of numbers of all the
prizewinning ballot-balls has been
made.
• * * *
Brief particulars of North Queens-
land pioneer John Moffat ?
According to Vol. 3 of the History
of Queensland (1923), available at
the Mitchell Library, from which
the following facts are taken, John
Moffat was “able and honorable, of
indomitable will, keen initiative and
untiring energy, who ranked during
his active career as one of the most
prominent and universally esteemed
of the men who furthered the settle-
ment of the Far North.” Born in
“Come to bed, dear. Surely you've said all the things you
said you should've said at the meeting .”
Newmilns (Ayrshire, Scotland) in
1841, and educated in Glasgow, he
came to Australia in 1860, for
health reasons. Associated at first
with Sir Robert Philp, he went into
business in Brisbane, then moved to
Stanthorpe, where, among other
things, he interested himself in tin-
mining. In the 'eighties he moved
north, and bought a half-share in the
Great Northern freehold tinmine,
Herberton (discovered 1880). The
mine prospered, as did the Irvine-
bank tinmine, in which he also
became interested. For many years
identified with the progress of the
town of Irvinebank, he spent large
sums on developmental works,
including a huge dam. He devised
several machines used in mining;
also the Moffat-Virtue shearing-
machine (he helped to finance the
Moffat-Virtue company in its
beginnings). He refused several
times to be nominated for Parlia-
ment. In 1889 he married a daughter
of Charles Linedale, of Tenterfield
(N.S.W.), a pioneer of New
England. John Moffat lived in
livinebank, where his memory is
still revered, till 1912, when he
moved to-Sydney. He died in 1918
while back in Queensland on a
business trip.
* * * *
What was “Watkins’ last expedi-
tion,” which I’ve seen somewhere
as the title of a book ?
Henry George (“Gino”) Watkins
(1907-32) was interested in natural
science, and was an expert alpinist.
When only 21 he was chosen to
organise an expedition to Spits-
bergen, and shortly afterwards he
explored and surveyed the interior
of Labrador. His work there was
so successful that it led to forma-
tion of the British Arctic Air Route
Expedition of 1930-31, under
Watkins’s command. Watkins next
planned a journey across the
Antarctic, but had to give up for lack
of funds, and returned instead to
Greenland in July, 1932, with three
companions, Chapman, Riley and
Rymill (an Australian), all of whom
had been with him in 1930-31. The
1932-33 expedition, based at Lake
Fjord, on the east coast of Green-
land, was sponsored, in the main, by
Pan-American Airways for meteoro-
logical work and the investigation of
flying conditions. On Aug. 20,
1932, Watkins was lost at sea while
hunting seals in a kayak; his body
was never recovered. Rymill, the
chief surveyor, then took over
leadership. Watkins’ Last Expedi-
tion, by F. Spencer Chapman (1934),
the naturalist in the party, tells the
story of this 1932-33 expedition,
though of necessity not telling much
of Watkins himself. All the pro-
jected survey and meteorological
work was done, except for an
exploratory journey across Green-
land that was to have been carried
out by Watkins. The party left on
its return to England in September,
1933.
Brief Answers
R.E.: The book is Jurgen Spanuth’s
Atlantis, the Mystery Unravelled,
published in 1956. It can be con-
sulted at Sydney Public Library
A.S.F.: As far as is known, Sir
Ernest Oppeinhoimer, the South
Alrican diamond-magnate who died
on Nov. 25 last, and U.S. physicist
J. Robert Oppenheimer are not
related at a11....D.C.: The fan-
belt must be tight enough to
prevent slip, but sufficiently flexible
for the centre of the belt to be
moved about an inch each way. To
make an adjustment on your English
car, slacken the three bolts and
raise or lower the dynamo until the
desired tension of the belt is
obtained, then securely lock the
dynamo in position again... .Fred:
(1) Jack Crawford is the only player
to have won the Australian singles
tennis-title three years running
(1931-32-J3). Crawford also won
the title in 1935. J. O. Anderson
won twice running (1924-25), as well
as having won in 1922, and Frank
Sedgman, the only other player to
have two successive wins, won in
1949 and 1950. (2) Bromwich and
Quist won the Australian doubles-
title eight times running (1938 to
1950 inclusive; there was no com-
petition 1941-45). In 1936 and 1937
Quist also won the doubles-title with
Don Turnbull... .W.S.: See The
Colditz Story, by P. R. Reid (1952),
which has been described as one
of the epic escape-stories of World
War II R.D.: The last people
hanged in Victoria were a woman,
Jean Lee (29), and two men,
Norman Andrew (38) and Robert
David Clayton (32), on Feb. 19,
1951. They had been found
guilty of the murder of a 73-year-
old s.p.-bookmaker, William George
Kent, in very brutal circumstances.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
blame and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
R.8.C.: But perhaps the clove in
rum-and-cloves is, in its way, an
additive... .F.E.: Verse rather
wordy and flat; the thought
excellent. .. .T.B.S. (U.S.): A long
way to send that Whiskered pun
about the m0a.... A.Z.W.: Can’t
refuse your tribute to “The
Esplanade, Cairns”:
Never unchanging, moody or bright,
A clear scene,, a drab day
The Esplanade ever attracts the eye
Of tourist and native. ,
... .R.K.H. (Scotland): Not for
us.. . .M.S.: One line of “Rubaiyat
of the Russian Moon”—“The man-
made missile flies, and having
flit”... .P.T.: “Heat Wave” just flat
description... .G.J O.: If it's a
camel there’s no need to call it an
“alien monster rude” —not that it
isn’t alien, monstrous, and rude.
....G.M.W.: Baffling....F.W.:
No, but what a beautiful address
you have. . . .W.R.A.: It has the
merit of being (probably) the only
poem ever written in praise of
Cobram, Victoria... .M.D.: Now
that you're there, tell us what it
really is like... .F.E.W.: A very
siout effort for the Jubilee....
R. 8.: You’re a bit late with the
sputnik dog... .E.M.G.: Well, it’s
pithy:
Whenever I look at the Sunrise
At the dawn of a lovely day,
And gaze at the bloom of the flowers,
Their beauty all ablaze,
The joy of the color around me,
Of which there is no dearth,
I wonder at the madness, born in Men,
Who wish to destroy this Earth.
When I look at a glorious Sunset,
At the close of another day,
Then at the velvet sky at night.
With its thousands of magic lights,
I hear the call of the night Birds,
The noise of the Cricket, too,
1 think of the madness, born in men,
And I wonder again, Anew.
....R.M.: One too flat (except at
the end) and the other not smooth
enough... .N.R.P.: Advise you
to talk to the next typist you
admire... .N.J.W.: Bushfire poem


WHEN YOU VALUE
Old Photographs
why trust them to door to door
canvassers? Send them to a firm
of 20 years’ standing. We will
quote size, coloring, framing,
spotting, etc.
SEND YOUR PHOTOS TO US
PROGRESS PHOTOS,
Midway Arcade,
256 Collins St., Melbourne,
Victoria.
too harrowing. . . .W.M.C.: You’d
better eat your “Ode to an Oyster.”
N.S.: The verse has too many
cliches; all the same, it’s pretty.
R.P.: Two useful lines, then,
out of several thousands on the
bushfires:
The acme of perfection let us strive to
attain
So our beautiful bushlands may from
Are be free.
=... A.C.: Fair enough for your age
but you'd better try a children’s
paper or the A.B.C. children’s-hour.
3id Instalment of
Stockmen All
By W.F.H.
[Further excitement with in-
dignant wild pork... Duel with
cattle duffers.. .Surprising sequels
to swimming with beautiful young
lubras.]
THE old tusker had a lovely pair
of ivory tusks curving twice
with a wide sweep and turning
towards the brain, after, cutting the
tusks Emu said, “me keepum tusks
makim necklace for lubra” work
went on until sundown then the
boy saw a sow with a litter of
porkers and as the blackboys closed
in on her with sharp axes ready
ior any move which came in a
flash the sow charged Bootlace who
jumped high over her back and
Emu, with a quick swing of his axe
chopped her snout off and Possum,
broke her spine with his swinging
axe and then the dogs were allowed
to close in and pin down the porkers
who squealed like hell attracting
another big boar who had a chance
01 catching Jimmie, as he charged
Bootlace dived for his leg a rear
one nearest to him and turned him
ever to be chopped by sharp axes
being long snouted and lean the pigs
were, useless in their wild state so
the carcass were poisoned to catch
anything game enough to eat them.
The slips were a diffirent proposi-
tion they could be fattened up to
make pork, bacon, and ham a
precious commodity in those out-
back places. When the young pigs
were brought home there was a form
of excitement prevailing some of
the Jackeroo’s were going pig stick-
ing so the boys were told to keep
their eyes peeled for some Lapunyah
saplings suitable for lances many
were found and in no time shear
blades were riveted to the lances and
the sport of pig sticking was ready
to begin. The young pigs were a
problem so the question was asked
why dont we have some milking
heifers in here to get some milk?
And why dont we grow some
vegatables! Gosh, this is a rummy
place. Milking cows were brought
in and the boys built bails and made
calf pens using a long rope they
lassoed the horns of the cows and
pulled them to the bails and when
the head was in place closed the bail
on their neck and then leg roped
them the cows playing merry hell
until they became used to men then
you could milk them in the yard.
Vegatables were next and in a few
months a fair show was on hand
especially pumpkins and water-
melons nobody seemed to have time
to attend to watering and cultivation
so it was let to slide. In the mean-
time two white men and a blackboy
turned up and asked for work fenc-
ing or stockyard building the next
day they were taken to the camp on
the creek where the boys had swam.
with the young Lubra’s. All the
blackboys seemed to know the
stranger but, “mum was the word”
and if asked who was he, they would
say, “Oh! he one of our tribe he
went alonga Roma many years ago
me not know whatem do maybe
Cook.”
Life went on, and a few weeks
later the boys were riding fence
along the abandoned station when
they were attracted by the plaintive
bleating of some thirsty sheep inside
the old station, hollow flanked and
very thin told the tale of lost sheep
in a dry stretch so the boys caught
tnem and carried the poor animals
to the creek in their station and
after giving them a drink rode to
the fencers camp and told them of
l he happenings. Tom Shaw the
eldest asked many questions and
when the boys arrived home Mr.
Lean told them half of his sheep
had been lifted and examining the
earmarks and raddle on the sheep bit
his lip and said, Um, I thought so,
thanks for catching these sheep you
have done a good job.” That even-
ing the two fencers arrived and after
a few minutes talk with the overseer
they were taken inside and after
two hours they hastily rode away
and in no time one returned to tell
Mr. Lean his blackboy had been
beaten up and was in a bad way Mr.
Lean took him inside and before
long Wombat was on his way with a
letter to a station thirty miles away
the fencer taking Emu, and Stock-
whip and two 44 rifles with him.
Nothing was heard for two days
then Emu, was brought to the station
with his arm in a sling, then things
began to move a buckboard arriving
with four police one being a
tracker. Asking for saddle horses
they were taken to the fencers
camp and next day Stockwhip
arrived in charge of many bullocks,
then it leaked out, that the
abandoned cattle run was used by
duffers to hide stock stolen from
adjoining properties. And when
hard pressed they became windy and
bolted with the police always on
their tracks until they dissapeared
never to be seen again. When
tracking them to their hideout
Possum was fired upon and hit, the
fencers having a long range duel
with the four duffers who were
never caught, or known.
When the stolen stock were
recognised and placed with their
respective owners things carried on
in the usual routine manner many
old blackboys were given the job
of stripping bark for new sheds and
the way they did it was an eye
opener, the bark being stripped when
the sap was up the old boys pulling
a big sheet would let the bark to the
ground the bark side down and
underneath that strip a fire had been
burning providing warm ashes, and
earth which had a decided pull
towards the earth, and after placing
heavy timber on the bark it was left
to stretch and dry in a straight sheet
to be used on roofs of sheds
absolutely rainproof and nearly
everlasting.
One day when riding stock the
boys came across four old black-
fellow who in their youth had been
stockmen and tiring of it went bush,
and lived as their forebears did with
spear, boomerang and nulla nulla
coming across them Emu halted the
party and said, you watchem black-
fella kill tern top not pidgins as the
pidgeons arose in a huge flock
boomerangs were sent in all direc-
tions and no matter which way the
birds swooped a booma came through
them killing many and when close
the throwing sticks were thrown
among them adding more birds to
their bag. When they had collected
the birds old Billy McAllister the
hard case bummed some baccy from
Emu, and a fine old yabber yabber
ensued talking in the native dialect
they often looked at Jackie, and
nodded as if he was the centre of
attraction being six feet tall and
fourteen stone in weight with a fine
profile and features called fair to
middling made him stand out from
Jimmie who was five feet ten high
about 12 stone in weight with full
round face a sort of dull face with
a quick brain inside his big head a
staunch pal to Jackie and a man to
rely upon. When the happy party
had broken up and the old men were
on their way, Jimmie asked Emu
what they had yabbercd about,
looking very hard at Jackie he then
spoke in the Willuna dialect to the
other boys and after a consultation
Emu, said, “he talkum esbout
Waterlily his young lubra the one
in swimmin alonga Jackie, She in
bad way sayem she is Jackies gin
and soon cum alonga Jackie, and
te ole man no wantem arf caste
alonga Camp” Jackie and his mate
looked at the other and silence
teigned supreme, later Bootlace said,
“blackfellow knowum law, white
man no takem alonga gin but many
gin havem kid to Jackeroo, drover,
station bloke, tribe no likeum but
close eye many arf carste alonga
creeks. For your sake an all our
sakes you keepum away from young
gin you live on station an are easy
for young blackfella to kill if
jealous of young gin.”
Looking hard at Jackie, he said,
I doa» mean you will be killed but
many funny things have happened in
tis bush, you know we all like you
boys so us be freins.” Dismissing
the subject the boys rode around the
fences visited two big Billabongs
and then rode to a deep. creek to
have lunch and snore off an hour or
two under a shady gum tree. Jackie,
kept awake and when in a half
dozing state he looked towards a
scrub patch and saw two young gins
looking at him one he recognised as
the one he had seen When swimming
and becoming aware of Jackies
scrutiny she silently dissapeared but
Possum, had seen them, and jump-
ing up, he followed them to wander
around in Circles as the gins had
him fooled by wearing Emu feathers
on their feet which left no trace
of their presence.
When among the boys he told
them of his chase and bad luck, as
he was about to lecture them on
tribal laws, white mans, and the
danger to white boys if found mix-
ing with full blood gins. Poor kids,
little did they know what was in
store for the blacks along the station
creeks and in time very little fuss
was made regarding black and
white. The day for the pig hunt
came around and when the boys
viewed the Pukka Wallahs on fine
horses with lances in position they
looked like a section of the NSW
lancers doing practice. To complete
the job all available black boys were
mounted and used as beaters to drive
the pigs from cover and what a day
it was, riders missing the pigs and
horses throwing them among the
pigs who becoming so startled broke
all records to reach the dense Lig-
num scrub and then bail up and
defy all hands to shift them and
to save face the hunters had to go
in on foot and when charged by an
infuriated boar, or sow they had to
break evens to shin up a tree and
then watch the blackboys having
all the fun sticking the pigs with the
lances the brave Pukka Wallahs had
spent many hours making. The
home coming was alike a detach-
ment of the Bengal Lancers after a
successful foray against an enemy
each Lance had a pigs head to show
all hands how to do a job of pig
sticking. The woolshed huts and
etc were now Completed and the
old Cattle station was about to enter
into a new phrase of life all of the
cieek women and girls were sent
for and the overseer had some fleeces
on hand to show them the way to
pick up, throw on the table, and
roll for this job they were to be
fed given baccy, and gaudy dresses
to wear on the shearing board. Lik-
ing a change and some excitement
the young gins hopped into the job
with gusto and by the time of shear-
ing they knew all the iopes, and
answers and when the big shearers
came they were happy. Being made
a fuss of was to their delight and
when the shearers and shed hands
bought them dresses and trinkets
many were ready for seduction the
start of breaking the tribal custom
of all time. The young bloods were
furious and the tribe tried to call
them back to the Gunyah’s on the
creeks but the gins were workum for
boss and that ended all argument.
And to make things worse many
hawkers had false bottoms in their
waggons and in these places was the
square bottle trade gin not bad stuff
but hell for the blacks and loose
legged young gins who went the
whole hog and had “blurry time of
life” of course many young black-
boys, and gins left the shearers etc
alone but those who went the whole
hog made a sorry sight and when
the shearers had gone they paid
attention to the men working on the
station and that resulted in jealousy
and rows which ended, when Mr.
Lean ordered all females to keep
to their camps on the creeks some
miles away but they were allowed
to work at lamb marking on the far
fetched run many miles from the
homestead it used to be funny
watching the abo’s cooking the tails
of lambs etc and devouring them
before you many faces lit up with
smirks as you watched them roast
the dilicies over fires nearby and eat
them from the end of a wire skewer
until their stomachs distended and
some fell out to lay down and snore
off. Among the young gins was the
girl who he had met before and
Jackie, was very sedate and before
long his side play and banter kept
the young gin at bay and before
an hour was over he had named her
Black Eyed Susan and her sister
Laughing Water and after much
laughter and slingjng off they were
nicknamed Soosam, an Waters. All
the time Jackie, and Jimmie were
working at the rail the two young
gins worked hard to keep the lambs
on the rail and as the day wore
on Jackie, was Susan this, and Susan
that, much to the delight of the
sisters who had that age old look
in the eyes so common to mankind
of All Colours throughout eternity.
When knockoff time was near Susan
turned her body sideways so Jackie
could see her in her glory, a splendid
woman shaped to perfection with
one half of her moleskin shorts miss-
ing showing one half of her perfect
rump in the nude being native she
could not care less especially when
close to her hearts desire a white
man named Jackie Miller who was
trying to do the right thing under
trying circumstances.
{To be continued next week )


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
ATOMIC POWER
I>RESENT indications are that
John Bull is still holding the
lead in the development of
atomic power for industry, the
latest pointer being the con-
tract to build a large atomic
reactor in Italy.
The U.K., comments London
“Daily Telegraph,” has
“grounds for self-congratula-
tion in thus taking the lead in
an export field already hotly
competitive and certain to
become more so.
“The contract has been won
against American rivals—and
won on merit, since the
Italians would have had no
difficulty in finding the neces-
sary dollars had they preferred
the American product. Already
Italy is projecting two more
plants, and other Continental
countries will follow suit, so
that a profitable field is open-
ing in which we are now given
the first chance to establish our
prestige.
“Even more important, how-
ever, is the international co-
operation which Such contracts
must bring with them. This
is indispensable from the start,
because the British suppliers
of plant will work closely with
the Italian constructors of the
site. But from it will spring
a real nuclear entente in which
knowledge will be pooled and
research shared. This contract
with Italy could be the pattern
for others, linking the free
world with a network of
agreements firmer than the
shifting sands of politics.”
Japan has also been fiddling
with the buying of an atomic
station for the last year-and-a-
half, and, notes London
“Economist,” * “The team of
Japanese atomic experts due to
visit this country [the U.K.] is
the first to come with definite
authority to discuss the pur-
chase of a full-sized nuclear
power-station”:
“For the past 18 months, ever
since the Japanese took a deci-
sion in principle to buy a
power-station from Britain,
they have been exploring the
ground in this country and the
United States until manufac-
turers on both sides of the
Atlantic despaired of doing
business with them. Political
differences at home, fear of
earthquakes and misgivings
about the terms on which fuel is
to be supplied and treated have
all contributed to the delay.
Although the Japanese still
plan to buy a complementary
reactor from the United States,
they have made no move yet to
send a similar purchasing mis-
sion there.
“The well-publicised diffi-
culties of the United States
atomic - power programme,
which has fallen well behind
schedule and wildly exceeded
original cost-estimates, may
have tipped more than one
possible atomic customer off
the fence. One of the big
German public utilities has
recently cancelled a contract
for a small 15,000 kw. nuclear
power - station designed in
America but to be supplied
partly from this country,
because of difficulties over the
development of the fuel-system.
“This experience must have
had a distinctly chastening
effect, and the German com-
pany is now about to invite
British design-groups to bid for
a full-sized nuclear power-
station on Calder Hall lines.”
Meanwhile, commenting on
Britain’s most important recent
nuclear achievement, London
“News Chronicle” describes as
“too silly to be true” America’s
London “Time and Tide”
NORTHERLY GALE APPROACHING
“refusal to allow Britain to
announce her latest discovery
in nuclear research the
creation of an artificial ‘sun.’ ”
“Britain has had several
years’ start on America and
Russia in taming the Fl-bomb
for peaceful uses, and is now
ready to announce to the world
the terrific potentialities of this
unique discovery. It is greater
news than the launching of the
sputniks, and ought to be
shouted from the house-tops.
But under a tripartite agree-
ment, signed by Britain,
America' and Canada, a top-
secret announcement like this
one can be released only with
full approval of the three
signatories—and America is
withholding her consent.
“No satisfactory reasons have
been stated. Rightly or
wrongly, the man-in-the-street
is left to assume that America
is merely playing for time. But
this is not the way partnerships
should work, and, as Russia has
shown, atomic achievements
can be brilliant national
propaganda.”
Tito
Yugoslavia’s failure to add
its name to those of the
other 12 Communist - ruled
countries signing the joint-
policy statement in Moscow has
been variously interpreted, one
of the more common explana-
tions being that such a signing
might affect the considerable
economic aid which Yugo-
slavia receives from the U.S.
“New York Times,” however,
rules out that theory on two
grounds: Yugoslavia did sign
the manifesto endorsing Soviet,
foreign policy, although know-
ing that such an action would
win no favor in America ; and,
second, Poland signed the 12-
nation statement although it is
receiving U.S. aid and asking
for more.
A more probable reason for
Poland signing the joint-policy
statement, “N. Y. Times”
suggests, lies in the statement’s
repetition of the “two-camps
theory” which sees “the world
rent by a struggle to the death
between the Socialist camp and
the capitalist camp, with the
former headed by the Soviet
Union and the latter by the
United States.”
Tito, the “N. Y. Times” adds,
has learnt a lot in the nine
years since he was expelled
from the Cominform, “and the
essence of what he has learnt
may be summed-up in two
propositions”:
“First, the world is a much


Now!
what you've always wanted
a
\
N
\
m
'm
m
y.\
! " a**
« rid' C*K *M Itl
\M
> -#.
il:.
fjf*
114
v v ' r?zs}
...
jnofi ui
Pure Wool
slacks
That gives you everything you
want when you buy new slacks
a truly permanent crease,
plus all the advantages of
pure wool cloth . . . which is
harder wearing, smarter look-
ing, and wrinkle resistant.
Do what you like to those
creases, they never come out,
never need even the touch of
an iron. They’re guaranteed \
Your slacks are now per-
manently smart. Even if they
are soaked in a shower of rain,
when they dry out, your per-
manent crease will still be
there.
Sfc&minci
De Luxe Trousers
Look for the “PERMA-CREASE” tag.
You’ll find it on all Stamina pure wool
“PERMA-CREASE” De Luxe Slaeks. It’s
your guarantee that the knife-edged smart-
ness of your new Stamina sports trousers
is permanent.
The Makers of Stamina Clothes
are using
the Si-ro-set process
to C.S.I.R.O’s. requirements
mm
with PERMA-CREASE
more complicated place than
Moscow’s ‘two-camps’ theory
makes it out to be. Second,
there has been and can be such
a thing as Soviet imperialism,
and every subordination of a
Communist-ruled State to
Soviet leadership aids that
imperialism.
“Tito and his colleagues
know from their personal ex-
perience that the ‘devil’ theory
of American motivation so
popular in Moscow is simply
false. We [the U.S.] have given
Yugoslavia hundreds of millions
of dollars" worth of -aid with-
out attempting to change its
form of government or demand-
ing that its policy be brought
into line with ours.
“Tito and his colleagues
know that so far as forms of
social, political and economic
organisation are concerned
there are great differences
among the Western nations, and
that it is simply faulty reason-
ing to suppose that, say, the
United States, Britain, Sweden
and Spain may all be lumped
under one simple ideological
label.
“Tito is aware, too, of how
much has been done in
countries such as the United
States and Great Britain to
raise standards of health and
living and to make political
democracy a real thing rather
than the fiction Khrushchev
thinks it is.
“This and his own bitter
experiences while Stalin lived
have made Tito a more realistic
policy-maker than is the
Khrushchev we see today, a
man intoxicated by his rocket
power and blinded by his
obsolete ideological precon-
ceptions. Against this back-
ground we need not be sur-
prised that Tito and Khrush-
chev have fallen out again.”
Indonesia
London “Financial Times”
editorial estimate of Indo-
nesia’s prospects:
“The immediate origin of
the intensified anti-Dutch
agitation was the unsuccessful
attempt on November 30 io
assassinate the President, but
its ro.ots go back to the long-
standing weakness of Dr.
Soekarno’s administration,
which has for years been unable
to exert authority in its own
territory.
“Nationalist agitation has
always been one of the stock
weapons in the hands of a
petty aspirant dictator, and
this lies behind the campaign
for West New Guinea and the


anti-Dutch measures. But
President Soekarno may over-
reach himself and become the
prisoner of the Communist
forces that he has done so
much to encourage. It is
already apparent that the loss
of the Dutch trading connection
will inflict severe economic loss
on the Indonesians themselves.
The economy was on the verge
of breakdown before the recent
trouble. A run on the banks
has now started and there is a
'possibility of a collapse of the
currency.
“The danger that Indonesia
may go the way of Syria is thus
a real one. Apart from lis
polit i c a' 1 importance, the
country is responsible for
nearly 40 per cent, of the out-
put of rubber in the non-
Communist world and nearly
one-fifth of tin-production.
“It does, however, seem that
the outlying islands, which are
responsible for most of the
London “Daily Mirror"
IS IT WELL WITH THE CHILD?
“Two-thirds of the world’s children suffer the effects of malnutrition, disease and ignorance” —
Vicky’s comment on the eleventh anniversary of the U.N. Children’s Fund, "which depends entirely
on voluntary contributions from Governments and private sources.”
rubber - and tin - production,
would go their own way if
the Government in Java drifted
towards Communism. A large
part of Sumatra, Celebes and
the islands of Eastern Indo-
nesia are already under the
control of military governors,
who do not take orders from
President Soekarno.
“These governors have in
many cases behaved in a more
responsible manner towards
Dutch commercial interests
than the legally constituted
authorities. Up to now there
have been no hostilities between
the rival authorities, and
abortive conferences between
them have been held from time
to time. But the outlying
islands are strongholds of the
moderate parties and might
well sever all connections with
Java if there were any move
towards Communism there.”
Germany's Defence
Two views on Germany’s
contribution towards the sup-
port of the British Army on
the Rhine:
London “ News Chronicle” :
“For eight years the Federal
German Republic has been
getting high praise for its
economic recovery. Much of
this is deserved, but it is a pain-
ful fact that the Bonn Govern-
ment has never yet paid its due
to the common Nato effort.
The overstrained British and
French economies have borne
a heavy burden, whereas the
Germans have failed to meet
their commitments and have
enjoyed the protection of
Allied troops at a cut rate.
“It is impossible to justify
this. The German economy is
booming, the mark is a hard
currency. The burden of
defence-costs to Dr. Adenauer’s
administration is slight, since
the troops that were long ago
promised have never been
raised.
“The Germans now claim
that they will incur heavy
defence expenditure, but they
admit that they will not have
their long-promised 12 divisions
in the field before 1961. There
is no reason why they should be
subsidised at the British tax-
payers’ expense.
“The British Government
with the French and the
Americans, who are also press-
ing their claim, should-certainly
take the firmest line with Bonn.
Nothing is more likely to
wreck Nato than the suspicion
that some of its members enjoy
its benefits without subscribing
their dues.”
London “ Daily Express”:
“The Rhine Army costs us
[Britain] £165 million a year.
These forces would cost £95
million if they were at home,
but it takes £7O million more
to keep them in Germany.
“That is what the Germans
owe us every year, but do we
demand it? No. All we ask
is £5O million—but do we get
even that? Again the answer
is: No —unless we are very
lucky.
“In 1956 Schaeffer, the then
Finance Minister, suddenly
refused to pay any more. If
he did, he said, it would mean
‘financial catastrophe’ for
Germany.
“Catastrophe! At that time
her wealth was pouring in while
ours [Britain’s] was pouring
out, and her gold reserves were
second only to the American.
“In the end she paid a beg-
garly £34 million. That took
four months to extract and it
was like getting blood out of a
stone.
“This year the Germans have
agreed to pay the £5O million,
but they want to cease all
future payments from next
March. We rejoice that our
Government are now putting
pressure on by threatening to
withdraw more troops if they
do not pay up.”
Franco
Nominating General Franco’s
remarks on the Russian sput-
nik as “the oddest reaction,”
Edinburgh “Scotsman” quotes
the Spanish dictator as saying
“That couldn’t have happened
in the old Russia. Great works
require for their success
political unity and discipline.”
These remarks, together with
Franco’s advice to America
that it should learn the obvious
lesson, the “Scotsman” adds to
“the signs that Spain’s attitude
to Russia has been changing
for some time —recently it has
seemed to point to nothing less
than a decision to call off the
cold war”:
“Spain has had indirect rela-
tions for trade and other pur-
poses with Russian and Eastern
Europe for some time now.
Until Morocco started making
demands for her enclaves in
North Africa, Franco was also
a strong supporter of Arab
nationalism against the
‘colonialist’ Powers and assidu-
ously curried favor with Arab
opinion.
“Franco, with the exception
of the Premier of England’s
oldest ally [Portugal], is the
oldest surviving dictator. Re-
cently dictators have been
going down like ninepins in
South and Central America, but
Franco and Salazar, who came
to power the year before
Hitler, are still there. Spain
and Portugal were the only two
countries which officially


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week.
HILARIOUS—IF SOMEONE ELSE WEREN’T LAUGHING LOUDER
mourned the news of Hitler’s
death.
“Now Portugal is a member
of Nato and Spain has a long-
term agreement with America
under which she receives
economic and military aid in
return for allowing the estab-
lishment of large military bases
on her territory.
“But Spain shows signs of
disintegrating from within.
The regime itself is divided.
The Army, the Church, the
Royalists and the Falange are
plainly disunited. The Falange
and a section of the Church
now espouse the cause of the
workers and the poor. There is
a growing liberal underground
which has its links with the
regime. A students’ demon-
stration of sympathy with
Hungary in Barcelona turned
into a demonstration against
Franco. The succession is un-
certain in spite of the paper
plans for a continuation of the
regime under a monarchy.”
Mobilising Scientists
Querying the “process
of selection and explana-
tion” by which “American
scientists get their ideas taken
up and developed by non-
scientific politicians and
officials,” London “Daily Tele-
graph” suggests a return to the
British and U.S. war-time
system for “sorting out the
rubbish and taking action on
the rest”:
“There was, in brief, a
mobilisation of ideas and it
would not be surprising if the
lack of such mobilisation is one
of the chief reasons why the
Americans have fallen behind
the Russ i a ns in certain
branches of defence science.
“That this covers a great
deal more than rockets and
warheads and the policing of
space was almost sensationally
shown by the evidence of Dr.
Teller. Control of the weather,
exploitation of the riches of
the sea, development of new
foodstuffs are all likely objects
of Soviet research.
“If war with weapons has
become suicidal, how strong
must be the pressure on power-
loving men in Moscow to use
their immense technological
resources in more sensational
ways that will impress minds
and masses, not only in the
West but in Asia.
“To think of science in this
way, to regard its ideas as
harnessed to some cqld-war
machine, is most disagreeable
to most Americans and British
workers in these fields. But
some harnessing of some work
there must be.”
"The Politics of Envy"
Although writing particu-
larly of the U.K. scene,
Charles Curran, in London
“Spectator,” makes some
thoughtful points which would
apply in any country where
the political division is between
capital and labor.
Discussing what he calls “the
politics of envy,” he notes “a
submerged magnetic mass that
makes all the political com-
passes go wrong”—a human
factor too often ignored by
economists and political con-
troversialists.
“The fact is,” he writes,
“mass opinion in this country
[the U.K.] has undergone a
profound change that has
taken it outside the area of
economic arguments. The
industrial worker has amended
the social contract. He now
insists, consciously and uncon-
sciously, that his own scale of
values must be accepted by
the entire community. He
believes that it is basically
unjust to impose restraints on
one group unless at the same
time parallel restraints are
imposed on other groups as
well.
“This is a matter not at all of
statistics, but of feelings so
deep that they form a settled
conviction. To tell him, for
instance, that dividends are a
drop in the ocean of purchas-
ing-power by contrast with
wages may be true ; but in face
of this conviction it is irrele-
vant, a mere beating of the con-
troversial air. Even though the
control of dividends, capital-
gains, expense-accounts and
other forms of minority ex-
penditure would make no
difference at all, in real terms,
to inflation, he feels that they
should be controlled all the
same. He wants fiscal human
sacrifices to be performed
before his eyes in the name
not of economics but of Fair
Shares.”
This change, Curran con-
tinues, took place between
1940 and 1950 when “the
worker’s scale of values was,
in effect, nationalised”:
“It was lifted from its class
context and imposed on the
whole community. The com-
petitive struggle was suspended
and replaced by a co-operative
ethic ; goods and services were
allocated on the basis of pre-
sumed need, without much
reference to purchasing-power ;
there was a rough equality
about distribution, which was
regulated so that nobody was
seen to get much more than
anybody else ; rents were con-
trolled, food-prices were sub-
sidised, the national tempo was
adjusted so that the slowest
could keep up ; and differential
ability was at a discount, since
advantages were conferred
collectively from above, not
achieved by personal effort.”
This set-up —“non-competi-
tive, uniform, broadly egali-
tarian, where nobody got more
than others through the
accident of superior talent or
energy” was “profoundly
satisfying to a large section of
the British people,” and the
memories and effects of it “have
permeated throughout our
[Britain’s] politics, our in-
dustrial relations, our social
attitudes”:
“They are seen both in the
inflation controversy and far
beyond it. They are revealed,
for example, in hostility to the
eleven - plus examination
which selects children on the
basis of differential ability and
which is, therefore, repugnant
to the ethics of a non-competi-
tive society ; in the ease with
which working-class opinion
can be roused against any
differentiated group, from West
Indian bus-drivers to Hungarian
miners, or against any indi-
vidual deviant from the co-
operative norm, such as the
man who is boycotted, fined or
victimised because he works
too hard; in attacks on in-
dustrial profits or any other
form of differential advantage
—which is regarded as a social
wrong irrespective of the
rewards.
“Even though the rewards
are, in real terms, so small that
they would amount to noth-
ing if redistributed, the fact that
they exist at all is condemned
as an injustice. Xenophobia,
hatred of differentiation,
insistence that ability, energy,
any form of personal endow-
ment or effort shall not be
permitted to prevail—they are
all symptoms of the mass
attitude. They all exemplify the
politics of envy.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Free Postage
“E.P.M.” (B. 6/11/’57) wants
a free mail-service. I wish he
had my letter-box to clear.
This was last week’s mail:
The Bulletin, a “National
Geographic,” two bills, one
private letter, two books of
lottery-tickets, three begging
letters (two from organisations
1 deem unworthy) and 27 items
of propaganda or advertise-
ment. The latter varied in size
from 12in.-by-9in. down to 3in.-
by-9in. and all cost fourpence
or more each to post. I am not
at all a prominent citizen. Just
think what our letter-boxes
would be like if business-people
didn’t have to pay postage on
their advertising!
I asked my postie what he
thought of it all. He glanced
at the seven useless communica-
tions he was handing me and
said, “A man would never even
get started.” Too right! The
present proportions of five
wanted or necessary mail items
to 32 nuisance items would
shoot up to anywhere you like,
one to 50, or higher.
No, “E.P.M.” There are
already too many buckshee
services in this country. Free
postage would make little
difference to private corres-
pondence (the most important
kind) and would make a
nuisance of business mail. I
want to see advertising curbed.
It is already out of hand in
respect of both material and
mass. As for the mailing-list
(advertising), it has become a
menace. —T. K. 11l (Q.).
Wasting Water
Much of the blame for the
water-restrictions now afflicting
Sydney can certainly be sheeted
home to the city’s No-Water
Board and to the N.S.W. Labor
Government for, in particular,
its failure to complete the
Warragamba Dam (B.
25/12/’57).
But that’s not the whole
story. In the normal run of
things, when there’s no
particular drought in the land,
far too much water is just
wilfully wasted. I’ve seen chaps
standing at the sink blithely
soaping their hands while, with
the tap left full on, gallons of
water rush away down the
drain. What happens in one
city building is probably
repeated in scores of others.
Then again there’s many a
washerless tap among the city’s
bubblers, and in some cases
I’ve seen water running over
and away for several days on
end before the tap is fixed.
All this wasted water could
come in very handy in times
of drought.
I think it would prove well
worth while making the wanton
or negligent waste of water,
by individuals or by corpora-
tions, a punishable offence. —
Severas (N.S.W.).
“Eat More Eggs”
Since the export-market for
eggs slumped early in 1957, the
Victorian egg business has been
running around in circles like
a decapitated chicken and
has got precisely nowhere.
For years the Victorian Egg
Board persisted with attempts
to develop an economically
“They certainly seem a Weird people. Wonder what
language they speak ?”
impracticable market for its
products in the United King-
dom. Not only rising costs of
production doomed its efforts ;
Great Britain has spent millions
of pounds in subsidies the
figure was expected to reach
£35 million in 1957 alone—
to encourage home-production
of eggs, and is now practically
self-sufficient in that respect.
The Victorian Egg Board
blandly ignored the situation.
Its annual report for 1955-56
declared roundly that “all the
evidence indicates the wisdom
of spending money [i.e., the Vic-
torian egg-buyers’ money] to
encourage English housewives
to use Australian eggs,” and
scoffed at suggestions that
surplus eggs, instead of being
exported at a loss, should be
sold locally at reduced prices
or stored to meet winter
shortages.
Victorian poultryfarmers, at
a meeting in Melbourne on
December 18, 1957, proposed
some bright ideas for putting
the staggering industry on its
feet again. One was to stop the
wicked inter-State traffic in
eggs by asking the trade-union
movement to ban inter-State
eggs in open defiance,
apparently, of Section 92 of the
Commonwealth Constitution.
A second proposal, curiously
inconsistent with the first, was
to ask the Federal Government
to underwrite export-losses by
State egg-marketing boards, the
argument being that the
Government is already subsidis-
ing other primary industries.
A third idea which, like the
second, was carried unani-
mously by the meeting, was to
request the Federal Govern-
ment to make available
£500,000 annually for an “eat-
more-eggs” campaign.
It is true that the Common-
wealth assists some other
primary industries. But it is
asking too much, even of a
Government which is notori-
ously lavish with the taxpayers’
money, to expect it to shoulder
the liabilities incurred by an
industry which has operated, in
recent years, with a complete
disregard for economics and
precious little notion of con-
ducting its affairs.— Wusslean
(Vic.).
Quotations
The practice of using quota-
tions from the works of the
masters seems to be another
tradition we have left behind.
It used to be normal for any
prose with a pretence to good
writing to be liberally larded
with recognisable extracts from
better-known works, put in the
better to make a point, or to
lighten or enlighten a dull
argument and hold the reader’s
interest while delivering a
lesson to him. Leaders in news-
papers were famous for it—
it was as rare a few years ago
to find a leading article with-
out a quotation as it is now
to find one with.
I don’t know why this should
be so. Bad writers could easily
destroy a passage of prose by
an objectionable display of
erudition, but at its best the
practice could add immensely
to the pleasure of reading.
There were two techniques
employed. The first, a direct
method, was the more familiar.
This consisted of taking a
passage from another work,
and rising it frankly
as a quotation in
inverted commas.
The second method
was the one used with
such telling effect by
Tom Collins in Such
Is Life. It is a much
more difficult tech-
nique to use success-
fully and, badly used,
is much worse read-
ing than the other.
The writer requires
to have absorbed his
model completely so
that its beats and
rhythms have become
part of his thought-
processes, and its
words have become
the formulas for his
thoughts.
It is impossible to
read a book like
Such Is Life without
noticing at once the overtones
imparted to it by the author’s
familiarity with the Bible, and
without feeling its enhanced
appeal. These overtones are
contributed variously by the
use of words culled from the
original work but now used
as the writer’s own, by the use
of new words arranged in a
rhythm - form recognisably
inherited from the older work,
or by simple misquotation—
often doubly effective for its
iconoclasm designed simul-
taneously to connote the


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
original and to say something
new.
There is more to be gained
by this method than mere
.happy expression. If the model
used is well known to the
reader, and has distinct refer-
ences for him, his reading is
concurrently on two planes,
and a second layer of meaning
is developed without the use of
the most tiresome of all literary
devices, the allegory.
I suppose that if the practice
had had any real part to play,
or was of any utility, it would
have survived, but I regret its
passing. Perhaps it is another
of the many graces pushed
aside by the pressure of 20th-
century life. K. L. Wells
(Malaya).
Criticism of the Young
I agree with “MacD.” (B.
25/12/’57) that the older
generation has no just cause to
constantly criticise the younger,
but it certainly does have
logical cause.
By the dispraise (or disci-
pline) of youth by age alone
does the civilisation of the
human race proceed slowly to
its ultimate. Even in the animal
world, without the constant
reproof of the young by the
old, the various species would
expedite their own extinction.
In short, correction is the
cardinal rule of life.
Youth resents the disappro-
bation of its elders because it is
instinctive to be wrong rather
than right. Such resentment,
however, is superficial and
always subsides into acceptance
when censure is reasonably fair.
Also, the generation-by-genera-
tion reprehension of youth
naturally becomes wearisome
for no other reason than that
it’s so damned necessary.—
P. O. M. C. (N.S.W.).
Those Delinquents
Some time ago Mr. Justice
Curlewis blamed newspapers
and periodicals generally for
ffe increase in juvenile delin-
quency (crime, really), and he
did not mean imported printed
matter only. He also refuted
the newspapers’ standard excuse
“we must give the public what
they want” by stating that there
was a marked tendency to teach
the public what to want.
All of which is all too true.
Victoria’s Police Commissioner,
cited by “D.J.G.” (B. 4/12/’57),
apparently has much the same
idea, but few are prepared to
buck the newspapers by
criticising them directly.
Actually newspapers (including
“I always strive for a realistic approach .”
popular weeklies and most
monthlies) are more responsible
for the setting-up and mainten-
ance of moral standards than
any other agency.
Parents, teachers and
ministers, despite many
handicaps, get our youngsters
off to a good moral start. The
deterioration sets in when they
go to work. They feel grown up,
have more money to spend, and
more leisure but less super-
vision, except perhaps on the
job, which is not concerned
greatly with moral issues.
David Barry, Brisbane
journalist, has quoted a bodgie
type as saying, that he went
wrong only after going to work,
where his mates soon taught
him, by example if not by
advice, how to “knock-off” use-
ful articles. At this stage, too,
a youngster tends to discuss
more with his mates questions
of life, love and loot.
But the newspaper remains
the chief agent of deterioration
of juvenile morale and morals
- the newspaper, with its
masses of exciting, glamorous,
sexy and crime-advertising
news, illustrations and
advertisements. Its worst
service is the continuous
undermining of parental
authority with advice and
criticism of parents and sloppy
excusing and defence of
juvenile misdeeds. I know this
last is done with good intent
(and to make “interesting
reading”), but it undermines
the morale of the parent and
boosts the youngster’s
determination to question, if
not deny, parental authority.
In this day of organised,
highly specialised publicity and
advertisement the newspaper
really runs the country and is
responsible for the morale and
t morals of its people. Sure, the
people are responsible in that
they could mould newspaper
policy to their will, but that is
no more likely than that the
newspapers will censor them-
selves. — Ex-Scouter (Q.).
South African Railways
If those South African rail-
waymen hadn’t been so tactful
(B. 18/12/’57), they might have
pointed out that the reason for
their system being so much
better than the Victorian is
that South Africans insist on
having it that way and provide
the conditions necessary for
successful commercial opera-
tion. Victorians don't.
It’s no particular credit to
the S’African administration
that it is allowed virtual
control over all internal trans-
port—rail, road, air and the
ports and harbors. It’s no
credit to them that the booming
national economy has pro-
duced a rise of 27-million tons
of freight (almost equal to the
entire Australian railing) over
the past 10 years, to give a
grand total of 75-million tons
annually, four times as much
as N. S. Wales.
" It wasn’t the railway which
provided the enormous sum of
£5OO million for betterment
over the same period, although
one must give the administra-
tion credit for the way in which
the money has been spent —on
straightening of curves, easing
of grades, strengthening of
track generally, doubling where
needed, extending the already
extensive electrification and
providing bigger and more
powerful locomotives.
Recent developments in Aus-
tralia make the current
S’African order-list of more
than passing interest. It in-
cludes 349 electric coaches and
trailers, 234 electric locos, 60
huge coal-burners and 45
diesel-electrics for use in the
waterless south-west. It
doesn’t appear to be what
Ebasco would have recom-
mended, but I can’t see the
S’Africans paying much
attention to them.
Finally, is that £5-million
transport-loss in Victoria
really a railway loss? I seem
to remember about the time
the Section 92 business was
going through that all railway
heads warned their respective
Governments that if it did
they could no longer accept
responsibility for their, fixed
charges. If such was the case,
unless we can get a bit of
S’African method applied
locally, waxing indignant about
railway losses is merely flogging
a dead horse. — Transporticus
(Singapore).
“Democracy”
The emphatic manner in
which such generally broad-
minded figures as Lachlan
Macquarie and W. C. Went-
worth denounced democracy
(B. 25/12/’57) is not surprising
—for our great-grandfathers
“democracy” had a verv
different meaning from what
it has today.
Democracy is now generally
regarded as a Constitutional
system of government, with
the Lower House —if the
Parliament be two-Chambered
—elected by universal suffrage.
Its meaning, both to supporters


and opponents, was very
different in the early 19th
century. Then it meant belief
in the doctrine of the
“general will.” This doctrine,
which had been developed by
Rousseau and several other
18th-century Continental
political theorists, presupposed
a common outlook on the part
of citizens of a genuine demo-
cracy. Any class or sectional
loyalties, or even political
parties, by dividing the citizens,
prevented the “general will”
from functioning properly, and
should be suppressed.
Adherents of this creed
favored a single-House Parlia-
ment that made unanimous
decisions and had no organised
parties. Thus Horne Tooke,
leader of the English Jacobins,
standing trial for sedition in
1794, defined his aims as “a
regime with annual Parliaments,
based on universal suffrage,
with the exclusion of parties,
and voting unanimously.”
Most Britons had the sense
to see that such a regime could
not function unless embodied
in a ruthless dictatorship like
that of the Jacobins in France,
Indeed, “general-will” demo-
cracy has always proved in-
compatible with political
liberty.
Naturally, therefore, Britons
of sensible outlook and genuine
love of liberty felt intense
hostility to the advocates of
such a system. They were not
alone. So closely was this
particular political attitude
associated with the word
“democracy” that several of the
“founding fathers” of the
U.S.A., including George
Washington, Alexander
Hamilton, John Marshall and
Gouverneur Morris, emphasised
that they were republicans, not
democrats. In the English-
speaking world it was mainly
radicals whose political ideas
were derived from Continental
revolutionary sources who
called themselves democrats in
the first half of the 19th
century.
The popular British political
theory in the early 19th century
was that of the balance of
interests. It was held that the
best form of government, the
only one that provided a sure
guarantee of liberty to the
individual, was one combining
monarchy, aristocracy and
democracy. Most Britons
believed their Constitution
fulfilled this requirement
admirably. When, in the mid-
19th-century, responsible
government was granted to
several British colonies, this
belief was still strong enough
to influence the framing of the
new Constitutions. Different
conditions rendered an heredi-
tary Upper House, like the
House of Lords, unsuitable, but
the framers sought to counter-
balance a democratically elected
lower Chamber with an upper
one composed of nominees for
life, or elected on a property
franchise. —Terry the Tory,
(N.S.W.).
Australia and the U.S.
.“H.A.F.” (B. 23/10/’57)»
should consider the significance
of the statement made by the
First National City Bank letter,
which I quoted—that $l7OO was
necessary “to provide the mini-
mum requirements for a retired
couple.” He would then have
a fair idea of the purchasing-
value of the $BO he accepts as
the average U.S. wage.
A man with three dependants
on $BO takes home $73.25 a
week or $3809 a year. “H.A.F.”
would surely not say that four
active young people on a little
more than twice what two old
people require for “minimum
iequirements” live in any sort
of paradise. And surely he
would not claim that they were
as well off as one with £4O
a week in Australia.
He might also think over the
statement made by Governor
Harriman of New York,
referring to the eight-million
families —one in every five —
who live on incomes of $2OOO
or less, that “minimum health
and decent living-standards
cannot be maintained on that.”
This does not seem to make
$3809 a wonderful wage.
“H.A.F.” may have noticed
a statement made recently by
Mr. Gunn, an Australian
accountant who has just
leturned from three months in
the U.S., that the dollar has a
purchasing-value of about ss.
On the facts as I can see them
the value is not quite so high,
and probably only a little over
4s. —L. W. Ferres (Vic.).
Industrial Unions and' Labor
Alterations in the method of
control of the A.C.T.U. have
received wide publicity, and it is
now generally accepted that the
Communists, if not already in
control, are in a position to
assume control whenever they
think it advisable. What is not
so generally known or
publicised is the way in which
control of the Australian Labor
Party has in recent years passed
into the hands of the industrial
unions, with the same danger
of the Communists taking
charge when they think it is
safe to do so.
The A.C.T.U. has a
legitimate function to perform
in looking after the interests of
industrial unionists, and if the
unionists themselves want
Communists to run their
business it seems to be
largely their own affair. They
also have the various Govern-
ments, employers’ organisations
and industrial courts to contend
with before they can get very
far, but if the A.L.P. should be
returned to power in the Com-
monwealth then the industrial
unions will be the Government
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 468
Across
I—The1 —The last word in praying against one neckwear life’s
comforts and pleasures. (9)
6 —The Persian apple to inform against a beauty. (5)
9 —Carbohydrate resin fossilised an institution for unjust
extortion. (4-7)
10 — Pronoun. (3)
11— Blubber is expected of such pre-radio announcers. (6)
12 — A parent of a kitten what is very, very small? (4)
16 — Encore a profit! (5)
17— Horse rugs the capital of the
French ring in tins. (10)
21 — Novel. (3)
22 — Whatever make one try harder to
be in the money with Burl. (10)
23 A fully dressed sovereign may be
under it—yet it’s certainly under
a sovereign. (5)
25 —Therefore the Queen is to depart.
(4)
27 —Cooper’s Creek don’t allow a
dove call! (6)
29 —Recede. (3)
31 — Oil river due to change one of
Paris’s main thoroughfares.
(3, 2,6)
32 The affirmative of an animal test
to decide the mineral content of
ore. (5)
33 — Head flank could become semi-
Godiva-ish. (4-5)
Down
1 — Successful service of the famous
Jolson region in Europe. (6)
2 Test a toxin I name incorrectly.
01)
3 Redden in an automobile with a
girl. (11)
4 The morning’s self-introduced
mosque officer. (4)
5 Wrecked boats clog a little black-
fellow in the street. (5)
6 —Hit up a good golf score. (3)
7 Tree has changed. (3)
8— Fish for the woman’s jewellery.
(8)
13 — Pole and I gossip with Idriess
when chewing, the gossip being
malicious. (11)
14— Super-criminal to get the hang of
shepherding equipment. (6, 5)
15 —Spelter. (4)
18— Spot where a bishop rules? (3)
19 — Possesses snow by arrangement.
(4)
20 — Public hearings are not a suitable
place for a roll of film before it’s
exposed a disorderly American.
(2, 6)
24 —Duplicated .business like the piper.
(6)
26—The old-fashioned leaves —almost
enough for a poet. (5)
28 —Villainous hill skin dropped.
(4)
30 — Rising under a conveyance. (3)
31 — This makes Lindwall beam. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 467


OPES
of Every Type
and Size
Famous for many
years as Queensland’s
premier manufacturers
of envelopes we pro-
duce the well known—
“JAXUL” PATENT
CLEAR - FACE WIN-
DOW Envelopes in
sizes 5f ins. x 3J ins.,
6£ x 3f and 9 ins. x
4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED En-
velopes in aIP sizes,
No. 1 to No. 8.
Plain or Printed
COMMERCIAL En -
velopes in all standard
sizes and qualities,
plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application
Jackson &
O’Sullivan pt y .ud.
Envelop* Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers <6 Printers
304-310$ QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
and the consequences to Aus-
tralia could be disastrous.
At each triennial conference
of the A.L.P. for many years
past the unions have strength-
ened their position until now
their hold is unassailable. The
emphasis all the time has been
on control within the party, and
the rules have been consistently
altered with that
end in view. While
these alterations
have been going
through, the legis-
lative side has
been largely
ignored, so much
so that the average
elector must
wonder what is
behind the drive for control of
the party.
In the constitution of the
Queensland branch of the
A.L.P., as amended in 1956 and
operative from June 1, 1957, the
following “plank” appears:
The prickly-pear evil to be taken
in hand by the Government, and
a scheme operated as early as
possible to arrest the spread of the
pest.
In March, 1925, the Queens-
land Government (Labor)
introduced the cactoblastis
insect to combat prickly-pear.
By March, 1926, the insects
were being distributed in mass,
and the work was continued
by the non-Labor Government
from 1929 to 1932. By the
time Labor was returned again
in 1932 the eradication of
prickly-pear in Queensland was
practically complete, but the
“plank” regarding the prickly-
pear evil still remains in the
piatform of the party, where it
has been for well over 30 years.
There have been no
omissions or oversights of that
nature as far as the control of
the A.L.P. by the industrial
unions is concerned. The
A.C.T.U. is quite open about
its method of control; by con-
trast the A.L.P. appears to
work behind a cloak of secrecy,
but if Labor aspires to govern
again, even in the remote
future, surely the electors are
entitled to know something
of the inner workings of the
party.
It seems to be impossible to
get Labor leaders to talk on
the subject. In the heat of an
election-campaign other issues
will overshadow this question,
so now seems to be the time
for electors not tied to any of
the major political parties to
Qo a little probing, in the hope
that the political wing of Labor
may regain some control within
the party. The alternative
appears to be one - party
Government any party
“The food is excellent but lacks variety .”
opposed to Labor. —W. M.
(Q-). /'
Naturalisation
Naturalisation of non-British
migrants in Australia should
be ultimate, proof that the
foreign-born has accepted this
country as a permanent home
together with the privileges and
responsibilities that go with
the contract.
When one looks at the
migration picture the position
does not work out quite that
concisely. According to the
Statistical Bulletin of the
Department of Immigration
(July, 1957) 361,982 non-British
migrants entered Australia be-
tween October, 1945, and
January, 1953, of which only
91,994 became naturalised. A
fair inference is that a greater
proportion should by now
have taken the final step in
their new citizenship.
One reason why they have
not, it has been suggested, lies
in Section 21 of the Common-
wealth Nationality and Citizen-
ship Act of 1948-55. This
section provides for with-
drawal of citizenship from
naturalised Australians as a
penalty for certain actions.
The penalty may be incurred,
inter alia, for disloyalty or
disaffection towards the
Crown ; unlawfully trading or
associating with the enemy
in war - time; acquiring
naturalisation by means of
fraud or false representation ;
not being of good character at
the date of naturalisation.
Such provisions, in them-
selves seemingly reasonable,
are hard to reconcile with full
citizenship and all the term
implies. Certainly the native-
born risks the law’s vengeance
for any of these offences, but
he does not become “Stateless”
as might the naturalised Aus-
tralian, and without the pro-
tection of a country the State-
less one could find it extremely
difficult to rehabilitate himself.
At least the legislation as it
stands does not give absolute
equality to the non-British
migrant, but the law expects
from him a standard of
behavior equal to that of native
Australians. A liberalisation
of the Act could be a signifi-
cant step in fostering national
unity, and it might then
not be unreasonable to make
naturalisation compulsory for
migrants who at present do
not, for one reason or another,
take out their papers.
Legal provisions apart, how-
ever, the migrant question
remains an essentially human
one. A recent survey among
non-British migrants, headed by
Mr. Justice Dovey, found no
excessive crime generally. It
did hint that New Australians
were more likely to be bad
citizens when they were lonely,
had insufficient chances for
marriage and found Australian
conditions very different from
those prevailing in their home-
lands.
Which might fairly point to
the conclusion that migrants
need greater equality, sympathy
and practical help in return for
the very highest standards of
citizenship. — Xavier (Vic.).
Tyson
“8.A.K.” has his men mixed
in his efforts to depict Tyson as
a slave-driver (B. 30/10/ ’57).
Tyson would have as much
chance of disguising himself as
Billy Hughes. That tale about
disguises to catch cooks and
storekeepers has been attributed
to nearly all economy cranks
in Queensland’s pastoral
history.
The grindstone-turning, gate-
swinging episode is usually
given to Baldy Davies, a station-
owner in N.S.W. who boasted
he never refused a swagman a
job.
About Lethbridge and the
grapes, which “8.A.K.” tries
to base on a Kidman yarn. The
gentleman who told me that,
and who was there at the time,
said it took place in the early
’eighties—before I was born,
and probably before “8.A.K.”
burst upon a startled world.
At that time no one took any
notice of what Sidney Kidman
said or did.
I never said Tyson wasn’t
careful. He was. He could
be considered mean. But he
wasn’t ’ the snooping slave-
driver some say he was.
One thing “B.A.K.’*'omitted
was that when Tyson was
chided with the fact that his
heirs would play ducks and
drakes with his money he
replied: “If they have as much
pleasure spending it as I
did in getting it, then that
money won’t be wasted.”
—Ringer (Q.).


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
TO FATTEN A FIELD
A NY ONE who is interested
in agricultural theory —and
it is worth mentioning in pass-
ing that, in the long run, there
can be no sound practice with-
out theory —sooner or later
comes up against the fertiliser
versus organic-farming con-
troversy which has been roll-
ing and reverberating around
the Western world for a couple
of decades. Indeed, as Donald
P. Hopkins points out in the
new and substantially revised
edition of his Chemicals,
Humus and the Soil (Faber),
by way of quotation from
“Punch,” 1840, the argument
has been going on rather
longer:
I remember the time when the stable
would yield
Whatsoever was need to fatten a
field;
Eut chemistry now into tillage we
lugs,
And we drenches the earth with a
parcel of drugs;
Makes each fallow
Physic swallow—
All we poisons, I hope, is the slugs.
Lor’, when I was a youngster, who
thought, to be sure,
Tests have been made
to decide the advan-
tages of light surface
insecticide spraying to
protect sheep from
fly-strike, as against
normal jetting.
Results showed that
spraying used two to
four times as much
insecticide to obtain
results equal to jet-
ting. However, spray-
ing is a much quicker
job. So far as lambs
are concerned, excel-
lent protection against
fly-strike is provided
when Elastrator Rub-
ber Rings are used
for marking add
tailing.
Of guano, or gypsum, to use for
manure?
Of acids and salts from the blue-
bottle shops—
Where we soon shall be going for
tincture and drops,
Draughts and potions,
Washes, lotions,
Pills and powders to doctor the
crops.
Well, there, to myself I says often,
says I,
Things will come round again, I’ve
no doubt, by and by
And your wiseacres find, after all’s
said and done,
That the old plan of farming, my
bucks, is the one;
Drop reliance
On their science,
Only finishing where they begun.
But there is a considerable
difference between this type of
practical-farmer scepticism and
the later criticism of chemical
fertilisers by people like Sir
Albert Howard and Lady Eve
Balfour. As Hopkins remarks,
in the 1840’s only a small pro-
portion of the criticism levelled
at the new methods of farming
was likely to have been anti-
chemical for specific reasons or
principles. Chemistry, thanks
to men like Sir Humphry Davy,
was a remarkably popular
subject, not without social
glamor:
“Quite a number of farmers,
particularly the more influential
type, had been fertiliser-minded
before Liebig supplied the
theoretical key for fertiliser
effectiveness. There are many
records in the 1780-1840 period
of somewhat crude farm-
trials in which a diversity of
substances were tried as
fertilisers. A 426-paged book,
On Fertilisers, by Cuthbert
William Johnson, barrister-at-
law, was published in 1839 by
Ridgway, Piccadilly, London.
Much of the text was com-
posed of Johnson’s articles and
essays previously published in
agricultural -magazines, so the
date of the book is a somewhat
belated indication of the date
of its text and ideas. Those
who imagine there was hardly
any interest or trade in
fertilisers before Liebig and
Lawes should certainly read
Johnson. The desire to experi-
ment was certainly not lacking,
and every thoughtful farmer
seems to have been urgently
aware of the need for crop-
feeding materials in addition
to farmyard manures. When
Lawes started to make super-
phosphate he must have had
a ready-made market quite
large enough to absorb all his
production.”
The anti-fertiliser argument,
Hopkins says, seems to have
two threads in its
“The older one is the instinctive
belief that animal manures are
‘natural’ and must therefore be
‘right’; the newer thread is the
similar instinctive belief that
chemicals are harsh, caustic,
acid or toxic substances that
cannot be safe to apply to our
soils.” The modern anti-
fertiliser argument, in Hop-
kins’s opinion, is a tight twist
of both threads, but the latter
“Well, I bought the Watering-can during the restrictions,
and I feel 1 ought to use it.”
is a new ingredient: “For the
past 20 years, a comprehensive
anti-fertiliser thesis has been
actively and skilfully presented,
often with all the vigor and
passion of a crusade against
cruelty or slavery.”
Hopkins maintains that' the
anti-fertiliser school has
assumed that the orthodox view
“is an equivocal statement that
chemicals can wholly replace
natural manures. Most of their
guns are aimed at that target,
which certainly enables them
to give a dazzling display of
good marksmanship; so that
many people have been readily
persuaded that the gunnery has
been highly accurate with a
notable collection of direct
hits. But what matters is not
the destruction meted out to
some imaginary target, but the
damage done to the real target,
And the real belief is the
orthodox belief that fertility
will be maintained, and plant-
growth adequate for our needs,
if fertilisers and manures are
used as complementary addi-
tions to the soil; or if fertilisers
are used in conjunction with
other suitable means of fertiliser
maintenance. The anti-
fertiliser school rarely fires its
guns at this target.”
A good point. Of late years,
particularly, the larger manu-
facturers of fertilisers have been
at pains to point out that their
products are not magical, and
to stress the value of humus in
the soil.
But it is worth mentioning
that what is self-evident to the
scientist is not necessarily
obvious to the layman; that
most farmers are laymen ; and
that the human belief in a
panacea dies hard. The organic-
farming school, whatever the
exaggerations of some of their
spokesmen, by emphasising the
value of humus, of earthworms,
and of the beneficial micro-
organisms of the soil, have
probably done a great deal of
good.
Hopkins, of course, is not
writing specifically for Aus-
tralian readers, but the dangers
of excessive or unskilled use
of chemical fertilisers are, one
imagines, rather larger here
th an i n England, where the
balance between conservatism,
on the one hand, and new
techniques, on the other, has
been more evenly weighed,
Australian farming, in the past,
has very often been exploitive
farming, with grave damage to
soil. Even now, it would
probably be a very good thing
if more Australians knew rather
more about the arguments of
the organic-farming school,
whatever the probable
exaggeration of some of them-
That stated—and the quality
cation is necessary, because this
reviewer is in no position to


Best
Mineral
Supplement
V
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
I
ftM-
t*'
l«0
*«*«•
elO'l*
»o»*
a-**
I*-'**
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
*sy. TRLCALCIC PHOSRHAI*
Any particulars gladly supplied —
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: C P.O. Box 35*1,
SYDNEY # C.P.O. Box 4058, MELBOURNE •
C.P.O. Box 712 F, ADELAIDE # G.P.O. Box 758 K,
BRISBANE • Box H. 588, C.P.0., PERTH
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
say where the ultimate truth
resides —it must be admitted
that some of the anti-fertiliser
spokesmen have been, as
Hopkins implies, passionate
and crusading in the presenta-
tion of their case. Hopkins
takes particular arguments and
carefully attacks them. He
quotes from Howard's An Agri-
cultural Testament : —
The slow poisoning of the life of
the soil by artificial manures is one
ot the greatest calamities which has
befallen agriculture and mankind.
The responsibility for this disaster
must be shared equally by the
disciples of Liebig and by the
economic system under which we
are living. The experiments of the
Broadchalk field showed that
increased crops could be obtained
by the skilful use of chemicals.
Industry at once manufactured
these manures and organised their
sale ...
Mother Earth has recorded her
disapproval by the steady growth
of disease in crops, animals, and
mankind. The spraying machine
was called in to protect the plant;
vaccines and serum the animal; in
the last resort the afflicted livestock
are slaughtered and burnt. This
policy is failing before our eyes. The
population, fed on improperly grown
food, has to be bolstered up by an
expensive system of patent-
medicines, panel doctors, dispen-
saries, hospitals, and convalescent
homes. A C 3 population is being
created.
From Lady Eve Balfour's
The Living Soil : —
It must be remembered that the
inorganic enthusiasts tend to over-
look in their claims that the
application of inorganic chemicals
to a field-crop does not so much
test the effect of chemical nutrients
as such, as of chemicals plus
humus. That is why the humus
enthusiasts demand long-term tests.
Their view is that it is the presence
of humus which softens the effects
of inorganic chemicals, and that it
is only when the humus content of
the soil becomes seriously lowered
that the harmful effect of inorganics
becomes fully apparent, although
feeding-value is affected long before
this stage is reached.
From F. C. King’s Garden-
ing with Compost : —
The full value of any crop can
only be secured from healthy,
fertile soil, which must be treated
as a living medium and not, as is
too often the case, as a dead mass
which can best be induced to pro-
duce a crop by repeated doses of
highly concentrated so-called plant-
foods or artificial fertilisers, which
not only rob the soil of its true
fertility, but leave a legacy of pests
and diseases as a measure of their
efficiency.
And John Drummond’s more
moderate statement, in Charter
for the Soil : —-
I think that our plan for the
future must break the insidious grip
of the advocates of artificials in the
taw state. Although I would not go
so far as to say that I have any
tangible proof that they are wrong,
I would say that if we have to use
artificials to produce increase of
field, it is because we have not
utilised natural resources to work
teally hard for us, because perhaps
have not tried hard .enough to
understand their power and
importance.
Hopkins examines these
arguments in minute detail,
going back, in one instance, as
far as Darwin’s work with
earthworms:
“The scientific estimation of
the earthworm's contribution
[the earthworm bulks largely
in the anti-fertiliser argument]
begins largely with Charles
Darwin. Over a number" of
years he observed worms’
habits and the many kinds of
soil-changes they brought
about, and in 1881 he published
a monograph, The Formation
of Vegetable Mould Through
the Action of Worms with
Observations on Their Habits .
“This exhaustive study was
no ordinary record of a
naturalist’s investigation, other-
wise there might be more
excuse for the scanty attention
paid to it by contemporary and
later science. Darwin was not
content to present a ‘purist’
view of the worm —he went
much beyond this and stressed
the important consequences of
worms’ habits to the soil. But
what should have been a classic
in scientific literature caused
practically no stir at all.
“In 1945, however, and in
no small measure due to the
activity of the humus school,
this book was republished under
the neater title, Darwin on
Humus and the Earthworm
(Faber), with a preface by Sir
Albert Howard. Not un-
naturally Sir Albert tied up
Darwin’s neglected points with
the humus-school thesis. But
before we inquire into this
enrolment of Darwin as a
member of the humus school —
or should it be as a dis-
tinguished past-president?—it
is best to see what Darwin said
himself.”
Darwin proved that worms
eat raw and half-decayed
organic matter and also pass
through their bodies con-
siderable quantities of earth. In
this process they produce a
rich vegetable-mould, or well-
humified soil, and this
is constantly being added to
the upper surfaces of soils. And
his figures have been confirmed
by recent research. But,
Hopkins says, does the earth-
worm really create nutrient? :
“All that happens, surely, is
that the worm consumes and
digests organic matter and thus
converts its nutrient into
different and perhaps more con-
centrated organic forms.”
There is useful and upward
movement; but not, Hopkins
suggests, such a tremendously
important one as has been
claimed.
He alleges Howard made use
of a rather unfair argument,
which has been widely repeated,
to support his view that
artificial, fertilisers drive away
earthworms. Howard gave
examples where applications of
sulphate-of-ammonia had done
this; but, Hopkins remarks,
it is well known that sulphate-
of-ammonia has this effect —
greenkeepg's make use of the
knowledge to keep greens
free of worm-moulds —and it
is likewise well known that
liming counterbalances the
acidity which is the cause. To
argue from this that the general
use of fertilisers inhibits earth-
worm activity is unjustified.
In similar deadly fashion,
Hopkins deals with the general
argument that an industrialised
country could dispense with the
use of artificial fertilisers by
analysing the NKP —nitrogen,
phosphorus and potassium—
requirements of crops and stock
in the U.K., and the amount
available if every scrap of
farmyard - manure in the
country were utilised.
True, individual farmers and
gardeners, by using consider-
able quantities of farmyard-
manure, get all the chemicals
their plants need. But what they
are doing, in effect, is con-
centrating the fertility of many
fields in one. Which, of course
although Hopkins doesn’t
make the point—is no bad thing
to do, from an individual view-
point, if costs warrant it.
In an interesting section on
potato-blight Hopkins shows
that the disease which wiped
out whole communities and, in
England, brought about the
repeal of the Corn Laws came
at a time when chemical
fertilisers were used only
experimentally. And similarly
with other diseases in the “good
old days” of farmyard manure:
“It was not only potato-blight
that made the eighteemforties
hungry. The vines of Southern
Europe were attacked by
mildew between 1848 and 1851
that caused panic among the
growers. The English hop-
gardens suffered severer mildew
invasion than had ever been
known.” In each case the
remedy was found in chemistry.
But, as the author says, “It is
difficult for a member of one
school of thought to summarise
fairly the views of a much
opposed school.” The chapters
on the nitrogen spiral and
humus are excellent, and
Hopkins could hardly be
accused of underestimating the
importance of either factor in
soil-fertility. But the chapters
on fertilisers are even better,
and are particularly valuable
as references —although, by and
large, he tries to make the
reader understand the under-
lying principles of fertiliser-
use rather than give rule-
of-thumb information: “The
main theme of the book is to
explain why rather than how.”
The author is also concerned
to make the book intelligible
to laymen—he quotes Hippo-
crates, “If you miss being
understood by laymen you miss
reality.”
It is, in its way, a very valu-
able book, and a thought-
provoking one. The author has
tried to be fair, but one is left


DINGO
DESTRUCTION
No. 14 “ONEIDA”
JUMP TRAP
71in.
Jaws
QHUO4
211 b.
Outstanding efficiency as Dingo
catcher, well established in sheep
lands of Queensland for over forty
years.
Further particulars from
R. J. MURPHY
Box 555, G.P.0., Townsville, Q.
Sole agent for Australia.
with the impression that rather
more could yet be said for the
modern humus school. There
are, for instance, reports of
lowered fertility of cattle in
New Zealand on improved-
pasture, reports of U.S. Army
tests of the physique of
recruits from different areas
which seem to indicate, at least,
that the organic-farming people
have rather more ammunition
than has been expended so far.
True, it could possibly be
argued that where evidence of a
low standard of animal and
human health has been found
to be associated with the use
of artificial fertilisers, or a
neglect of humus and healthy
soil-biology, the fault lies with
a misuse of fertilisers, not in
fertilisers themselves. But the
whole question seems to await
further research. In the
meantime, Hopkins’s book is a
distinguished contribution to
the subject, and a very readable
one.
J. F.
"Bushfires"
“A.J.A.”: I would like to
support as strongly as possible
C. A. Hungerford’s remarks on
bushfires (B. 18/12/’57). Asa
lad I lived in an outer suburb
of Brisbane where the gum-
forest was all around the rather
scattered rows of houses. Fires
used to run through nearly
every summer, but rarely killed
any trees, and never seriously
threatened any of the houses.
An analogy may be drawn
with soil-conservation. The best
soil-conservation requires more
than engineering knowledge;
similarly, bushfire - mitigation
requires more than a knowledge
of how to fight a fire. It is quite
obvious to plant-scientists, from
the way native trees and shrubs
are adapted to them, that
fires must have been regularly
occurring in Australia for
thousands, maybe millions,
of years. Just as thoughtless
interference with the natural
equilibrium can lead to soil-
erosion, so supposed bushfire-
control measures which ignore
this equilibrium may easily do
more harm than good.
Since the problems are essen-
tially similar, consideration
might well be given to letting
the soil-conservation authorities
have a say in this aspect of
bushfire-mitigation.
Old Faces
“Coonooner”: A feature of
the list of finalists in this
season’s Victorian Mallee
wheat-crop championship is
that at least half of them—
F. J. Hofmaier and Sons, of
Rosebery; J. M. Cooper and
Sons, of Nullawil; A. E.
Barbary, of Woomelang, and
Richard Shipp and Son, of
Ranjie—are always well up
among the prizewinners.
These men may be on
favored country, but,it is more
likely that their farming skill
keeps them ahead when the
judge runs his rule over their
crops.
The fact that these leaders
can grow good crops year in
and year out, during wet
seasons and near-droughts,
should inspire other farmers
to study and practise the
methods which bring success.
After all, the highlighting of
successful farming is one of
the most valuable aspects of
crop •
Other pleasing characteristics
of this season’s Mallee com-
petitions are that two of the
eight were sponsored by
Senior Young Farmers’ Clubs
(Woomelang and Berriwillock),
and the fact that, while Insignia
is still tops, the newer Sherpa
and Olympic varieties are
beginning to make their mark.
Haymaking
“Joe”: A survey made by
Melbourne University’s School
of Agriculture indicates that
haymaking isn’t nearly so
efficient an operation as most
of us have been led to believe.
The survey extended over
two seasons, and it was found
that, on average, a quarter of
the available working-time was
lost through mechanical delays.
The seriousness of this work-
ing inefficiency during the hay-
harvest is shown by the fact
that about a million tons of
hay are harvested each year in
Victoria alone. Yet that is
only a fraction of the hay that
could be saved. Even in the
better farming districts of the
State it is estimated that 70
per cent, of the spring growth
of pasture is wasted.
Most haymaking is done
with a combination of mower,
side-delivery rake and pick-up
baler. Summing-up the results
of tests with these, the report
states: “The survey showed
that the mower and pick-up
baler suffered serious losses of
time in the field, partly
through management and
partly through mechanical
breakdown and demands for
mechanical attention. In a
busy farm-process these losses
represent corresponding losses
of production and opportunity
to deal with the crop at the
right time.”
The survey was held in three
areas of Victoria —northern
and Wimmera, Western Dis-
trict, and Gippsland —which
were selected as typical of the
early, middle and late hay-
seasons.
In the hands of typical
operators, there were many
causes of trouble. In the case
of baling - machines, for
instance, delays were caused
by such things as shear-pin
failure, blockages, knotter-
trouble, and the need for
maintenance in the field. This
need for maintenance was
responsible for 36 per cent, of
the total time lost through,
mechanical causes.
Commenting on the loss of
one-quarter of available time
through mechanical delays, the
report says: “This differs
notably from the advertised
claims of smooth, trouble-free
running of the machines.”
There was an average of
three to four stoppages an hour
of baling-machines due to
mechanical troubles, and these
averaged five minutes each.
Stoppages in the field caused
by the weather were described
as “negligible.”
The average working-day for
hay-baling was found to be
seven hours, of which six
hours was spent in the field.
Of these, 1.4 hour was lost
by non-mechanical delays,
including the weather, time
lost in shifting from one site
to another, halts due to wait-
ing for other machines, meal-
times and voluntary delays
such as talks to neighbors.
This left a net working day
of 4.6 hours, and it was from
this short day that the breaks
due to mechanical stoppages
had to be deducted. The result
was-that time spent in actual
baling was on the average only
hours a day.
There was no significant
difference in the time lost by
big or small machines, or by
the makes of baler most
prominently represented in the
sample of 58 different units.
There was also no difference
in the average performance of
twine- and wire-balers, and the
percentage of lost time was
practically the same for owner-
operators, contractors and
group-owned machines.
The output of balers of
different nominal capacity
proved to be “remarkably
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(26/12/’57)
Rainfall will probably be patchy in Queensland during
January. Reasonably good rains, although below average,
are indicated on the coast, central highlands, Darling Downs
and Maranoa, heavy falls are likely on the Peninsula, but
rainfall will probably be poor in the west and far south-west.
Moderate rains, below average, are indicated for the
coast and tablelands of N.S.W. during January, with poor
rainfall in the balance of the State. It is unlikely that there
will be good general rains in N.S.W. until June.
In Victoria, moderate rains below average are likely
on the west coast and in the central division and Gippsland
during January ; poor elsewhere, with general rains com-
mencing in May.
Apart from light to moderate, average rains in the
central districts, January will probably be a month 'of poor
rainfall in South Australia, with no rains of any consequence
until May.
There should be heavy rain in the West Kimberleys,
with good rain in the East Kimberleys, north-west, Gascoyne
and coastal areas of south-west W.A. in January; in the
south-east and north-east of the State light rain only is
indicated.
LENNOX WALKER.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
"The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2/18/3 Foreign .... £3/«/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
alike,” and were on the
average, for the larger sizes
especially, a long way below
declared nominal capacities.
Studies of the operation of
mowers showed that here also
about two hours a day were
lost in stoppages not due to
any fault in the mower, but
often attributable to farm-
management.
The time lost due to the
mower averaged nearly \\
hour a day—27 per cent, of
net potential work-time. Of
this, 25 minutes was lost in
routine maintenance, while
other causes included block-
ages, breakages and adjust-
ments.
“In the average field work-
ing day of seven hours,” the
report states, “mowing occu-
pied only about 3| hours, i.e.,
53 per cent., an eloquent com-
ment on how mower-capacity
may be whittled away by lost
time.”
The survey reaches the con-
clusion that there is a need
for engineering research into
the mechanics of haymaking.
These include problems of
design as well as methods of
controlling operation of the
machines to obtain more
efficient output of good-quality
hay.
Commenting on the survey,
the Secretary of the Agricul-
tural Equipment Committee,
Mr. J. A. Roberts, said the
report showed the need for
more research, particularly on
hay-balers and mowers. It
also revealed the need for an
intensive educational pro-
gramme to help farmers make
the best use of the machines
they had.
New Storage Method
“J.”: Granny Smith apples
held in a cool-storage for eight
months topped the Brisbane
market recently. A new
storage-method had extended
their life in store by at least two
months.
The fruit brought from 52s.
to 56s. a case. Although it had
been picked last April, the fruit
came out of store with a freshly
picked appearance and flavor.
Dr. S. A. Trout, Director of
Horticulture, Queensland
Department of Agriculture and
Stock, said this semi-com-
mercial trial is the first large-
scale test of the new method in
Queensland.
The new storage - method
involves holding the apples in
gas-tight cool-rooms at 34deg.
F. The oxygen content of the
The Bulletin, January 8, 1958
atmosphere surrounding the
fruit is reduced to five per cent.,
compared with the 21 per cent,
present in normal air.
This treatment not only
extends the life of apples in
store, but enables them to be
kept longer after they have
been removed. Apples stored
for six months in the ordinary
way often break-down within
a week of removal from the
cool-room. Apples stored the
new way will last about twice
as long out of store.
Vets
“Country Vet.”: The dictum
by “Cocky” (B. 25/12/’57) that
country vets, are more likely
to survive now than at any
other time must depend for its
truth on where the vet. is.
Speaking as the only quali-
fied veterinarian doing whole-
time private practice in rural
Tasmania, I would testify that
the chance of survival in sole
dependence on such practice
here today is less than it ever
was.
In all Tasmanian history, no
country veterinarian depending
on farm practice has ever lived
much better than a pauper,
and the fact that none but
myself is even trying today
should be answer enough for
“Cocky.” There is nothing to
be earned by immunising calves
with strain 19 because the law
for nearly all the State is test-
and-slaughter, and nothing by
t.b.-testing because the very
small amount required is done
by the V.O.s of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture.
Nor can the rural vet. in
Tasmania look hopefully to
any monopoly of so-called
miracle drugs, because in this
easygoing State an increasing
number of ingenious laymen
are finding a way around that
obstacle. Also, the high cost
of such drugs in adequate
dosage for large animals, plus
the cost of travelling and fee,
add up to more than the
average farmer wants to pay.
A surprisingly large propor-
tion of Tasmanian farmers
prefer to take a chance on
natural recovery to the certainty
of a fairly heavy bill whether
the animal lives or dies.
As compared with the
medical man, the rural vet.
cannot win, because to serve
the farmers promptly and
properly he cannot afford the
time, single-handed, to run an
urban small-animal clinic —the
economic equivalent of the
doctor’s surgery — without
which the rural leech could not
or would not practise.
Then there is the cost of
travelling, too lightly con-
sidered by other contributors
to this discussion. Few, if any,
doctors in Tasmania charge
less than 2s. 6d. a mile for
country visits, but the country
vet. who charges as much as
Is. 6d. a mile would find his
calls to distant farms fall to
vanishing-point. This is my
experience: so why, then, do
I carry on, and how do I
survive?
Because, thanks to the
providence of forebears who
were not country vets., I can
afford it, and because, after 50
years of veterinary science,
nothing else interests me
enough to save me from bore-
dom. My fairly busy practice •
pays for my car, some reading-
matter and my wine-bill, and
saves me money by keeping me
out of mischief. And I like it.
Clean Seed
“Wichita”: The recent
Nebraska (U.S.A.) finding,
from an examination of 1000
seed-drill boxes, that uncerti-
fied wheat-seed contained 125
weed-seeds to the bushel, com-
pared with only two per bushel
of certified seed, should warn
Australian farmers to make
sure that their cereal plantings
are not a common way of
spreading weeds.
The moral is to keep seed-
areas perfectly clean and to
take special precautions—e.g.,
cleaning machinery, and
specially screening seed, if
necessary—to make sure that
weeds are not sown with
wheat.
Failure to do this not only
helps weeds to spread, but
also reduces much of the good
resulting from such scientific
discoveries as selective weedi-
cides, which can never be
expected to do the whole job
by themselves.
A start can be made by get-
ting clean seed from a reputable
source, such as a research-
station or agricultural college,
and keeping it pure for as long
as possible.
All-grain for Poultry
“Billjim”: S.A. poultry-
farmers have achieved some
spectacular savings in produc-
tion-costs by using an all-grain
ration for fowls.
By this method, feed-costs
had been reduced by the
equivalent of l|d. per dozen
eggs, in addition to consider-
able savings in labor-costs.
High labor-costs and the
shortage of bran and pollard
had prompted the switch-over
to the all-grain dry-mash. The
method would probably be
even more profitable during the
winter, when high-energy grain-
feeds keep feed consumption to
a minimum.
The grains used included
crushed wheat, barley and oats,
plus meatmeal, linseed-meal,
vitamin - powder, salt,
manganese-sulphate and green-
feed or lucerne-meal.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
Members of both the Australian and
American Davis Cup teams, and many
inter-State visitors, were among guests at
an at-home given at Government House.
With the Governor indisposed and un-
able to receive the guests, Lady Brooks
deputised for him, wearing an attractive
white silk frock pin-spotted in black.
The Prime Minister was present with
Dame Pattie, who chose a black-and-
white flower-printed organza frock and
a tiny black curvette. With Lieut.-
Governor Sir Edmund Herring and Lady
Herring were their daughter Margaret
and Tasmanian visitor Helen Downie.
With the Premier was Mrs. Bolte, whose
frock of white organza was scattered with
tiny black daisies.
The Lady Mayoress, Mrs. F. W.
Thomas, wore a slim, graceful black
frock highlighted with a large white lace
collar and matching cuffs. With U.S.
Ambassador William Sebalcf (who had
come from Canberra for the tennis) were
U.S. Consul-General Graham Hall and
Mrs. Hall. Others noted were Donald
Ferguson (president of the L.T.A.A.) and
Mrs. Ferguson ; L.T.A.V. president R. N.
Vroland and Mrs. Vroland; N.S.W.
L.T.A. president Alex Colvin, Mr. and
Mrs. Ken Rosewall, Mr. and Mrs. Mai
Anderson, Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Patter-
son, Mr. and Mrs. John P. Young, Dr.
and Mrs. J. R. Darling, and Mr. and
Mrs. Norman Strange.
ft * *
St. John’s Church, Toorak, was the
setting for the marriage of Joan Beatrice
Taafe with Sydney barrister lan Fitzhard-
ing Sheppard. Joan, who is the daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. H. J. Taafe, of Toorak,
chose a full-length Empire-line gown of
white French paper-taffeta, with the skirt
extending into a bouffant train; the
bodice was of Brussels-lace. Her bouquet
was of tuberoses and gardenias. Matron-
of-honor Mrs. Fred Hill wore a full-
length dress of white organza, with a green
sash as contrast. The bridegroom, son
of Mr. and Mrs. Wilfred Sheppard, of
Denistone (N.S.W.), had W. L. Anderson,
of Cheltenham (N.S.W.), as best man.
At the reception, which was held at the
Kingston Heath Golf Club, the bride’s
mother, receiving the guests, wore a
sheath-gown of steel-blue silk-shantung.
Mrs. Sheppard chose a grey lace frock
mounted on taffeta.
☆ ☆ ☆
To give the casts of “The Pyjama
Game,” “Salad Days” and “The Multi-
Colored Umbrella” an opportunity of
seeing the revue “Little By Little,” the
directors of the Little Theatre organised
a special Sunday-night performance.
The theatre was packed, and the pro-
fessionals thoroughly enjoyed the fare
provided by these talented amateurs. In
the audience were Mr. and Mrs. Garnet
Carroll and their nephew Freddy Gibson,
Mr. and Mrs. Terry Vaughan, Barbara
Newman (who will be seen in “Damn
Yankees”), Mrs. Juddie James, Mrs. Rosa
Ribush, Mrs. Helen Strachan (with her
son Jim and Frank Meek), Fred Parslowe
(he will appear in the Union Repertory’s
next show), Mr. and Mrs. Roy Dixon,
and Charles Dearden.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mr. and Mrs. Angus Jones flew to the
U.S. by way of Singapore, where they
visited their son and his wife, who live
there. In the States they will visit their
daughter and son-in-law, Mr. and Mrs.
Edward Barham, who live in Stanford,
Connecticut. Mr. and Mrs. Jones were
looking forward to seeing their latest
grandchild, a baby girl—the Barhams also
have two boys.
Titian-haired, 23-year-old Barbara New-
man has come from the U.S. to play the
role of Lola the Vamp in the Firm's pro-
duction of the American musical-comedy
“Damn Yankeeswhich will have its
premiere at Her Majesty’s on February 1.
Barbara has a sparkling personality and
an impish sense of humor. The role of
Lola requires her to be dancer, actress
and singer, and she describes her qualifi-
cations in that order of precedence.
Off in the Monterey for Honolulu,
Mrs. Norman Lynch, of Toorak, and her
sister-in-law, Mrs. Edward Philp. They
will stay at the Hotel Moana and will be
away for a month. While Mrs. Lynch
is away daughter Leveda will have a
seaside holiday with her father.
☆ ☆ ☆
Some racing-fashions noted at Moonee
Valley: Mrs. Norman Robinson’s navy
jacket-suit worn with a small white
ruffled-straw hat; Mrs. A. J. Moir’s
teaming of a jade-green silk frock
patterned in white with a sideways-draped
white straw beret; Diana Laurens’s frock
and jacket of navy-spotted white silk and
white hat wreathed with flowers; her
mother’s attractive silk frock of water-
melon-pink patterned in grey, and a large
white straw hat which had an upturned
brim; Mrs. Allan Walters’s frock and
jacket of white silk et«hed in a brown
pattern, with toque of palest-pink silk
roses; Mrs. Roy McGowan’s navy
jacket-suit and small white beret; and
Mrs. James Bowen Pain’s white frock
pin-spotted in black, worn with a large
Leghorn-straw hat.
☆ ☆ ☆
One of the most enjoyable end-of-the-
year parties was that given by the younger
members of the English Speaking Union
in the Toorak Road clubrooms. Presi-
dent of the younger members John Ely
received the guests, assisted by Mr. and
Mrs. W. Banks, Rion Jennings and Jean
Cameron. Among the guests were
Patricia Heath and fiance Graham Law,
Mr. and Mrs. David Warford Mein,
Betty Nutting and attractive twin sisters
Verna and Margot Richman.
SYDNEY
The year came in with a fine shower
of rain which began just at midnight,
and, although most thought it good after
the drought, it did rather dampen the
gaiety of the occasion. At Palm Beach
the traditional parties were held, but here,
as at other beach-resorts, the “inside”
parties just lacked the atmosphere of
the open-air affairs.
At Manly it was reported that the
attendance was disappointing, only 80,000
instead of the expected 150,000. Still,
80,000 is quite a few people, and in the
Corso, where bands playing military and
Scottish music and jazz catered for every
taste, there scarcely seemed room for
another toehold. Fireworks went up
over South Steyne and made things
brighter. It had to be remembered that
if it had not been for the rain there
would not have been any fireworks;
but, then, if it had not been for the rain
it would not have needed fireworks to
make things brighter.
☆ ☆ ☆
Foremost among the N.S.W. women
affected by the New Year Honors is, of
course, Lady Woodward, wife of the
Governor, Sir Eric Woodward. Lady
Woodward, who will be official hostess to !
the Queen Mother during her visit to
Sydney in February, has already shown
herself a person of charm and distinction
in the performance of public duties.
When her husband was G.O.C. Eastern
Command she was president of the
Eastern Command Women’s Auxiliary
and was actively interested in Red Cross.
Her daughter Judith, who is a librarian at
the Mitchell Library, recently announced
her engagement, and son Edward, a


proved accurate at seven-and-a-half miles
range. A ground-to-air weapon tested
under operational conditions was launched
within two minutes of an “alert” being
sounded and not only found but also
destroyed a target drone aircraft 100
miles from the weapon-base over the
Atlantic.
Other missiles have been flown accu-
rately to their targets over ranges of 2000
and 3000 miles. With the warning of
Russian development provided gratui-
tously by the sputniks, these missiles are
likely to make even more rapid progress.
All these developments have been pub-
lished in the U.S. press, and it can be
safely assumed that projects of a more
promising nature are taking form surely
and effectively. There is promise of
world security in these things, and it is
only a matter of time before they are
finally proved and reach the armories of
the Western democracies.
Although time could work against us,
the only really fatal step we might take
at this stage is to convince ourselves that
“off with the old and on with the new” —
before we have the new —is sensible
reasoning.
Our worst enemy is complacency, and
its bedmate, indifference. We must be
alert and move surely, for the very devil
is at our heels. The Russians have shown,
and still show, that they fear our air-
power. Behind the stout shield of
Western strategic air-power, free nations
of the West may safely enjoy their demo-
cratic ways of life for some time yet —
the next lap of the arms-race has not yet
been run, let alone lost. But to reduce,
even unintentionally, the power of the
democratic air-weapon is to court disaster.
For the time being the main things we
have to fear are fear itself —and in-
difference. Mostly indifference.
barrister of Melbourne, has been spend-
ing the New Year with his parents at
Government House. With him are his
wife and three daughters: Meredyth,
Penelope and Kathleen.
☆ ☆ ☆
Everyone who has the pleasure of
knowing her was delighted to see the
name of Mrs. Lucy Cassidy in the New
Year Honors list. She received an
M.B.E. for her public services. Closely
associated with many of Australia’s best-
known poets and writers, Mrs. Cassidy
has made a collection of famous auto-
graphs, and her albums, which she
intends to leave to the Mitchell Library,
form a little record of their own of the
literary and political scene of the early
days of Federation.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Henrietta Greville, at 97, has a
record of 60 years of fighting for the
rights of all those she considered were not
getting a fair deal; and her M.B.E.
in the Honors List comes in recognition
of a lifetime of vigor, devotion and
energy. The mother of seven (of whom
three are living), she has 18 great-grand-
children in various parts of Australia. She
lives with her son and daughter-in-law,
Mr. and Mrs. R. H. Greville, of Bondi,
and is still actively interested in politics
and philosophy.
☆ ☆
Lady Grieve, whose husband received
a K.B. for his services to medicine, is
English but has lived in Australia since
1935. A double-certificated nurse, she
served in the Australian Army Nursing
Service during the war and was for 12
months working in a military hospital
in New Guinea. Her husband, Sir
Ronald Grieve, is president of the
Medical Benefits Fund and a past-presi-
dent of the N.S.W. branch of the B.M.A.
v v v
Another family-party with something
to celebrate at the New Year were the
C. R. McKerihans, whose daughters Del
and Mrs. Bewick Hack congratulated
their banker-father on receiving the
C.B.E. Included in the party were Mrs.
Hack’s four young daughters.
# # V
The immediate events promised by
1958 are the visits of English Prime
Minister Mr. Harold Macmillan and his
wife, Lady Dorothy Macmillan, at the
end of this month ; then the visit of the
Queen Mother in February. Pleased as
one is to look forward to these visits,
one cannot help wishing that some other
time of the year would have been chosen.
The February weather is quite the worst
that Sydney, at least, has to offer, though
we did manage to produce a perfect day
when Queen Elizabeth II arrived here.
* ☆ <r
It is said that a double effort is being
put into the conclusion of the first stretch
of the overhead roadway from the Harbor
Bridge to Macquarie Street, in the hope
that it will be opened by the Queen
Mother. This roadway will make a great
difference to the appearance of Sydney,
and will mean that people travelling
from the eastern suburbs to the north
side will not have to go through the city
at all. The first stretch goes overhead
from the bridge, then swings up beside
Macquarie Street, emerging near the
Conservatorium.
Roslyn Maitland, who is the eldest
daughter of Dr. and Mrs. D. G. Maitland,
of Macquarie Street, recently became
engaged to Lieutenant Barry Willcox, who
is now stationed in W.A. Roslyn,
with her parents and sisters, is holidaying
at their Palm Beach home. Photo by
Norton Trevaire.
Inventions to look forward to (or
beware of) in 1958 include the Selavox, a
sub-miniature gramophone with a record
about 3in. in diameter which would fit
into a box 6in. by 4in. This enables
packets of flour, soap, etc., to speak for
themselves. When picked up they start
praising themselves and save the customer
the trouble of reading the label. This
should have some valuable household
uses. From a biscuit-jar, for instance,
a voice booming “Put that down at
once! ” would deter a marauding
youngster. In a cigarette-tin a reminder
that “Each cigarette is costing you two-
pence” might save waste; and a sofa
that whispered “Have you mowed the
lawn today?” might prevent many an
afternoon nap.
☆ ☆ ☆
Also from the U.S. comes news of a
process whereby the color of one’s hair
can be applied and removed as quickly
as lipstick. This is a useful invention.
Should one’s escort remark on the beauty
of a redhead at a dance, all one has to
do is to retire for a moment and come
back titian. Confusing for the escort,
of course, but only what he would
deserve.
Another invention, from England this
time, enables TV-viewers to express dis-
approval of a show by pressing a button.
A needle on a dial at the TV-station then
moves and (says the report) “the cast
and producer of a programme then know
viewers are not happy with the show.”
This seems very cowardly, for all those
who want to boo at a live performance
and are afraid to do so will no doubt take
it out on TV. What it would do to the
morale of the producer and cast is past
imagining.
* * V
Suggested resolution for hostesses at
cocktail-parties during 1958: provide
more chairs. Standing-up for more than
two hours at the end of the day’s work
is quite an ordeal, and the need for doing
so is getting cocktail-parties a bad name.
Of course, there are always the people
who stand up, no matter what the cost,
like the woman who, when requested to
sit down at a recent party, replied: “Oh,
no, my dear. One must never sit down
at a cocktail-party. It betrays one’s age!”


back to the kitchen he said to
me, “You get hat and ask Ama
can you come with me. I going
to fix fence near Outlaw’s Cave.
Not hard job. We can talk.
We can talk English.”
“Me!” said Lai. “Can I
come, too?”
Uncle Seyed looked at little
Lai. “We ask Ama,” he said.
Ama put my hat on for me
and shook her head to Uncle
Seyed when he pointed to Lai.
“Lai - baba,” said Uncle
Seyed. “Your father is in
paddock. I must mend fence.
What man stay to look after
Ama, Rashida, the baby?” -
“I am afraid,” said Ama,
“when there is no man here.”
Lai looked at her and her
downcast head. He looked at
Uncle. “I must stay,” he said.
“Men must look after the
women.”
So Uncle Seyed and I went
“Can you keep my daughter in the manner to which she’s been accustomed ?”
alone to the Outlaw’s Cave,
and the story that day was
given to me.
went on Saladin, the
blue horse that only
Uncle Seyed could ride. But
he was quiet with both of us on
him, and he galloped beauti-
fully while Uncle Seyed sang.
The cave was on the
boundary-fence and when we
got there Uncle Seyed tethered
Saladin in the shade of a big
gumtree. He patted him and
talked to him gently for a long
time.
“You don’t speak to him in
English,” I said, but I said it so
softly that neither Uncle Seyed
nor Saladin heard.
I walked over to the cave.
It was big; Uncle Seyed
could have stood up inside. It
was long, too ; Saladin could
have sheltered in it from the
rain and have not been seen
from outside. I walked round
it and felt the walls until I was
bored. I went out into the light
again and watched Uncle
Seyed working on the fence,
fixing the wires.
“Uncle Seyed,” I said. “Why
is it called the Outlaw’s Cave?”
Uncle Seyed hammered at a
post. “In old days an outlaw
live here,” he said. “A bush-
ranger.”
“Bushranger?”
“We say dacoit. In Aus-
tralia say bushranger.”
“What was his name?”
“Thunderbolt,” said Uncle
Seyed. “His name Thunder-
bolt.”
I had heard that name, and
I repeated it excitedly.
“Real name Ward,” said
Uncle Seyed. “He steal horses
—good horses. But not good
like Saladin. He hide here and
policeman not catch him. My
word, he hard man to catch! ”
“But they caught him?”
“They kill him,” said Uncle
Seyed. “They shoot him in
water. He have no chance.
Grave in Uralla. I show you
one day.”
I gaped at the cave. “But he
was a bad man,” I said.
“People here like him ; sorry
he killed. I sorry. He like
horses.-”
I stared at him. Uncle Seyed
was devout and embarrassingly
honest. “But he was a thief,”
I said.
Uncle Seyed stopped bang-
ing the post. “Are thieves that
are thieves,” he said. “Are
thieves that are men. Some
men steal and die but they not
crawl street with begging-
bowl. Better to steal and die.”
“A man ... a man can be a
thief,” he said. Without
noticing, he had begun to
speak in Punjabi. “A man can
steal and still have honor. He
can be a great dacoit, great.
Like Malik Khan.”
“Who was Malik Khan?” I
said very softly, in Punjabi,
and I sat down near him
because I knew that a story was
coming.
Uncle Seyed did not even
look at me. He fixed his eyes
on the hills and stared as
though he saw other hills and
not the ones that he knew and
all of us knew every day of our
lives. He looked at the hills
and told me, for my own, the
story of Malik Khan.
T WAS not born in your
father’s village, I came there
in my twelfth year. I came
there from Peshawar where I
was born. I lived in Peshawar
until I was twelve, older than
Rashida.
At that time in Peshawar
there were soldiers everywhere,
the frontier was alive with kill-
ing; it was the place where
Malik Khan lived. He was the
eagle that struck from the
mountains. He was the wolf
that no one could trap. He
was the great dacoit.
There was money to be had
for him —from the British,
from the rich Indians. There
was money to be had for those
who could catch him, kill him,
bring him back. But no one
asked for that money, for no
one who knew him would
betray him. Who would betray
an eagle?
I was small and often I
thought of him. I would sit in
the doorway with the Mullah,
my Koran-teacher, and not
listen. The Mullah was an old
man with grey hair, very wise
and strangely brave ; Muslims
saluted when he passed them
• —even the British respected him
—but a small boy thinking of
a fierce man like an eagle used
to sit by him and let him talk
and not listen. I used to watch
the people in the street and
wonder if some of them—the
tall fair-skinned ones, the
Pathans —were not men from
Malik Khan’s camp. If one of
them might not have been
Malik Khan himself.
I watched them come in to
pray, watched them pick
flowers in the garden, watched
them put the flowers in their
hair. Flowers are precious to
Pathans. There are no flowers
in the hills that they call home
there are no flowers where a
Malik Khan must hide.
I was watching the flower-
pickers and wondering, when,
suddenly, the Mullah said
something that I heard.
“My teacher,” I said to him.
“My teacher, how can you ?
How can you go to Malik
Khan? Even the soldiers can-
not find him out, and they have
guns and they look every day.
How can you?”
The Mullah smiled. He
disapproved of the British
soldiers ; they threw their
bottles into the holy garden.
“Soldiers!” he said. “Guns!
Talk, but no manners. Powef,
but no sense. They do not
know our people. I know our
people. I know them a little.”
I stared at him and thought
about it: that much was true.
He had observed two Pathans
that he had marked for Malik
Khan’s and, on the day that he
was ready, he followed them.
In his teacher’s robes, in the
green turban that showed he
had been to Mecca, he followed
them. He knew they would
hesitate to shoot at such a man.
He followed them out of
Peshawar, along the dusty road


ideology. The U.K. Govern-
ment will announce briefly that
it successfully launched an
earth-satellite three weeks pre-
viously from a secret base in
the Outer Hebrides and that
it is now regularly broadcasting
the “Goon Show” on behalf of
the 8.8. C. The disk-jockey on
a commercial radio-station will
develop revolving eyes. On the
strength of his increased staff
(from 115 to 228) the salary of
the chairman of the Nutmeg
Board will be increased to
£4750 p.a.
Oct. : In a speech to Parlia-
ment, Marshal Tito will declare
that Yugoslavia is capable of
pursuing independently its own
foreign policy without the
unwanted help of a couple of
vodka-swilling apes who would,
if they could, put Yugoslavs in
chains. At the Randwick
Spring meeting the most
popular fashion will be the
“spinnaker-top” dress ; a strong
wind on Ladies’ Day will cause
many wearers to be blown
against the Paddock fences. A
party of 100 will spend a
bitterly cold night searching
the Blue Mountains for a lost
hiker; when he is eventually
found recovering from a
bender in a Katoomba pub he
will confine his remarks to a
querulous: “I dunno what the
hell all the fuss was about!”
'A Saturday-m ati n e e pro-
gramme in a Melbourne
suburban cinema will com-
prise “The Case of the
Screaming Corpse” and
“Frankenstein Meets the
Zombies.” The N.S.W. Nut-
meg Board will accept a tender
of £5OO for the sale of its
£16,000 juice - extracting
machine.
Nov.: Interviewed after
having finished 36 holes of golf,
a man who had been released
from an N.S.W. jail after having
served only a fortnight of a
life-sentence for murder on the
ground of his “grave state of
health” will tell a reporter:
“And I’m still pretty crook,
see! ” In presenting a shield to
a winning infantry unit, which
averaged 17.4 sec. for 100yds.
with full packs up and carrying
rifles, President Nasser will
boast that in any future clash
of arms the Israelis will never
succeed in taking Egyptians
prisoners. A new French
Premier will hold office for 3
hours 44 minutes, beating the
previous record for brevity by
18 seconds. The Chief of Staff
of the Indonesian Army will
find out what “deployment”
means in military strategy.
Jayne Mansfield will take out
an insurance policy for four-
million dollars against the
shrinking of her talent below
its normal 42 inches.
Dec. : The design of the
f959-model of a popular make
of car will be the same as the
1958 model except for a slight
change in the grille and pro-
vision of a spittoon for the rear
seats; the price will be
increased by £55. Khrushchev
will appear at a Kremlin party
wearing a tie without any red
in it, and a famous expert on
Soviet affairs will interpret this
as a certain pointer to the eas-
ing of East-West relations. The
chairman of the N.S.W. Nut-
meg Board, in announcing a
loss of £38,000 on the first six
months of the board’s trading,
will blame the adverse result on
the unaccountable failure of
Australian women to respond
to the nutmeg-flavored lipsticks
and face-powders. A postman
will throw his bag into a
stormwater-drain after deliver-
ing 873 Christmas-cards to the
one suburban address.
BO.
until they came to the Khyber
Road where —suddenly, in a
lonely pass the Pathans
wheeled their horses and waited
for him.
“I have no money,” he told
them. “You cannot rob me.
I have no gun ; I cannot shoot
you. I am a Mullah who has
been to Mecca and who wishes
to speak with your chief.”
They pretended not to under-
stand, asking him what chief,
swore they were travellers and
not thieves, told him to go
quickly on his way because the
hills were dangerous.
The Mullah listened to all
that they said, but as every
sentence finished he asked for
Malik Khan, and when all the
sentences were finished and the
men had turned their horses to
leave him he demanded from
them in a loud clear voice,
nanawatai, melmastia, bad-
ragga.
HTHE Pathans stopped and
looked at him dismayed.
Those words —sanctuary, hos-
pitality, safe-conduct —are part
of the law of the Pathans. A
man who breaks them, a man
who refuses them, is no Pathan
and all his people are
dishonored.
Dismayed, they looked at
him ; saw his horse ready to
follow them, his helplessness if
they attacked him, his humble
white robes and his proud green
turban. They cursed him as
they granted what he had asked.
ITrey bound his eyes and took
him blindly to the outlaw’s
hideout. When they undid the
cloth the Mullah’s open eyes
saw Malik Khan himself.
“Malik Khan,” said the
Mullah. “Malik Khan, my son.
I taught you the Koran. I knew
you as a boy. Your teacher
asks, commands, that you
become the man that boy
should be and never a dacoit.”
The outlaw smiled. “My
father,” he said, “it is not
possible.”
“You loot. You steal. You
are hunted like a wolf. Like a
wolf you will be caught. The
soldiers must find you. One
day the guns must speak. You
know that you must die.”
Malik Khan stared at him.
“It is true,” he said. “It is true,
my father, but come with me.
Father, come with me.”
He took the Mullah to a high
rock from which they could
see the road that wound from
the valley to the frontier.
“There,” he said. “There on
that road, day after day, come
caravans of wealth—wealth
that can be taken in a single
raid. Silk from Bokhara, gold
from Peshawar, food.”
He turned the Mullah’s head
gently to gaze up at the hills,
the tribal land of the Pathans.
“There,” he said. “There!”
The Mullah looked up and
saw the hills steep and barren,
rock and dust, thorn and scrub;
the hills that grew into the
mountains between the Khyber
and Afghanistan ; the hills so
bare that they held no water.
“A hole in the ground to
catch some water,” said Malik
Khan. “A cave in the rock to
be a house. It is necessary to
steal. It is necessary to kill. It
is necessary to be hunted like
a wolf. If the children hunger,
are we to let them starve?”
“It is not right,” said the
Mullah. “It is not good.”
He turned to speak to the
others. They were Muslims,
devout and yet dacoit. They
would go to jail rather than
swear false oaths, but they
would kill if they had to kill to
eat.
He spoke to them of the
Koran and of Allah’s blessing
of life, but there was nothing
he could say to them and he felt
very old and foolish.
“There is nothing I can say
to you, my sons.”
Malik Khan held him by the
shoulders.
'“Father,” he said, “be con-
tent. This is the life we were
born into. This is the life we
were given. Go to your home
in Peshawar, and be content.”
AT night the Mullah left.
His eyes were unbound
and Malik Khan himself came
to be his guide. They moved
between the rocks towards the
place where the Mullah’s horse
had been hidden, and the
Mullah’s robes glowed white in
the moon’s light.
A guard on the hillside, one
of Malik’s men, raised his gun
to fire at the white-robed
stranger.
Too late Malik saw the
gleam of the barrel. Too late
he called. But he flung himself
in front of the Mullah and the
bullet went into him.
“Nanawatai, melm as t ia,
badragga,” said Malik Khan
before he died.
The Mullah and the weeping
guard took the body back to its
family and its people. For
three days the Mullah stayed
with them, helping, comforting,
and then he came back to the
town where I was, a small boy
who did not listen, and he told
us all that the great dacoit was
dead.
The great merchants threw
food to the people, so that even
the poor would rejoice, and the
soldiers drank beer and sang.
And some of them threw their
bottles into the masjid garden
where the Mullah sat grieving
as though he had lost a son.
And I grieved, too, as though
I had lost something great. And
the next year I came to your
father’s village and found you
all.
UNCLE Seyed looked at me
suddenly and smiled. “I
found you, eh?” he said in
English.
I nodded but said nothing. I
was trying hard to remember
the two stories, Thunderbolt
and Malik Khan ; to lock them
safe in my head for afterwards,
the two outlaws who touched
my life.
When he rode home the smell
of curry found us and Uncle
Seyed laughed again,
“We live and we eat,” he said
in Punjabi. “It is good to
live in Australia.”
“We live and we eat,” I said
to him in English.
“Is good?” said Uncle Seyed,
remembering. “Is good,” said
Uncle Seyed in his sort of
English, “to speak English like
me?”


from a bolting horse, galloping after
her and lifting her from the saddle just
as the horse plunges into a swollen
river. After an idyllic love-affair with
the lady he is chased out of the county
by the husband with an armed force
of assassins, having, for the moment,
mislaid his indomitable single punch.
On that he joins up as a volunteer in
the American Army, and there I leave
him to any reader who has a taste for
heroic adventures on every page,
recounted in a style which is a hodge-
podge of every cliche common to the
romantic; fiction of the time. I pause
only to note, in glancing through the
work, that Sam has exchanged his
punch of the prize-fighter for the sabre
of the soldier, and is fighting duels
right and left before an adoring
audience of beautiful Mexican
wenches . . .
This product of popular fiction is
illustrated by the author with paintings
reproduced in color, which exude the
complacence of the amateur painter
assured that he is creating master-
pieces. The editor of the book likens
these works, with approval, to those of
the best approved “masters” of
modernist art. This, in my opinion, is
to underrate what innocent merits they
may possess. Crude as they are in
conception and draughtsmanship, some
of them are pleasing in color, and there
is a heady gusto about them which
excels anything produced by the
formless, meaningless, dismal and
abortive abstractions of modernist
studio buffoonery.
Norman Lindsay.
Coaching Prints
It is always a pleasure to see any-
thing done perfectly; and The Regency
Road (Faber), edited by N. C. Selway,
is so near perfection in its field that
only the habitual caution of the
reviewer insists on the qualification. In
the style of an art-book, it consists of
66 plates in color of the coaching-
prints of James Pollard.
It is attractive at first glance—the
dust-cover with one of Pollard’s prints
showing a four - in - hand most
decorously gliding through a flood
amidst classic landscape.
There follows James Laver’s
impeccable introduction on “The
Great Age of Coaching,” discussing
British roads from Roman times to
Chaucer’s, on to the days when Queen
Elizabeth rode pillion across her
realm, sleeping in every bedroom, and
so to the Regency when the aristo-
crats drove coaches for fun and when
the coaching-industry was of such
proportions that the inns were like
small towns, with accommodation for
400 horses.
We learn what a “turnpike” was —
a road-block actually adorned with
pikes—and, more importantly, we learn
an approach to the artistic quality of
Pollard’s aquatints, which, rather like
the drawings of Gill and Skinner
Prout in Australia, seem too practical
really to be art, yet remain singularly
artistic: Laver compares them to the
wood-engravings of Hiroshige.
Next there is N. C. Selway’s account
of Pollard’s life; falling short of perfec-
tion here because little is known of the
artist; but at least, the writer having
tracked-down Pollard’s descendants,
adding something to our knowledge.
He was the son of Robert Pollard, also
an engraver and print-publisher; and
his favorite diversion, when not doing
aquatints of coaches, was angling in
the Lea.
Then, after a useful note on the
technique of aquatinting, there are the
plates themselves: sedate and primly
charming on the whole, curious when
they illustrate such incidents as the
attack on a coach-horse outside the
Pheasant Inn at Winterslow by a
lioness escaped from a circus, lovely in
some of the snow-scenes, and in a few
landscapes rising to a dramatic quality
reminiscent of the watercolors of
Cotman. Each plate has an explana-
tory footnote: describing the adventure
of the lioness, for example, or
mentioning that the Saracen’s Head is
the very inn which Dickens used as
the departure-point for Dotheboys
Hall in “Nicholas Nickleby,” or relat-
ing how the inn of The Swan with Two
Necks got its name . . . from the two
nicks with which the Vintners
Company marked the bills of swans on
the upper Thames. At the height of
the coaching-days, says one footnote,
there were as many as 150,000 horses
engaged in the traffic, with 30,000 men
to attend them.
And finally, if not firstly, there is
the format of the book as a whole,
bound in grey cloth with the title on
the spine in red and gold; snow-white
paper of good quality; the reproduc-
tions on art - paper; everything
harmonious, everything in quiet good
taste. The English price is four-
guineas.
Assorted Penguins
The Penguin people are nothing if
not eclectic. The ephemeral, the plain
rubbishy, the fashionable and the
immortal, in any given bunch of their
publications, lie cheek-by-jowl with
one another. A recent flock includes
the usual quota of mystery-stories,
scholarly productions like The Pattern
of English (in which G. H. Vallins
traces the development of the English
prose sentence from the time of King
Alfred to the modern usage); The
History of the British Navy, by
Michael Lewis; Andre Gide’s If It Die
(the story of his childhood and
adolescence and a sort of source-book
for his “Strait Is the Gate,” one of
the profoundest books ever written);
and The Song of Roland.
Nobody knows who wrote “The Song
of Roland.” There is a tantalising
clue in the very last line of the poem
—“Here ends the geste Turoldus
recited”—but this does not necessarily
mean that Turoldus was the author:
as was the custom of the day, he may
have been the troubadour-reciter, the
chief publisher of the Middle Ages.
Whoever the author was, however, he
was a poet who, like Homer, knew
and felt the epic quality of the age he
lived in and was not in the least
concerned with fact.
The fact that historically his hero
was a person who, as far as is known,
did nothing of importance, that the
battle of Roncesvalles, in which the
knights of Christendom bashed the
knights of Islam, never happened, does
not invalidate the truth of the poem.
The great poet is like the great painter.
He glorifies his subject. In his old
age Rembrandt with his wonderful skill
glorified his son, his mistress and his
own face. The academic painters of
the time were painting more important
subjects like kings, crucifixions and
Madonnas, but. lacking Rembrandt’s
skill, they made them as common-
place as themselves and they are now
forgotten.
The actual incident on which the
author of the “Chanson Roland” based
his epic was sufficiently squalid.
Charlemagne set out to loot Spain and
was besieging Saragossa when he heard
that certain tribes were looting his own
dominions, so he hurried home, and
on the way his wretched rearguard
was ambushed, not by pagan Moors
but by Basques, and massacred to the
last man. There isn’t any evidence
that Roland, Count of Mans, was even
present at the shambles. He was
probably on his manorial estate
squeezing a bit more out of his
peasants.
It was not until 200 years later that
this insignificant skirmish was given
shape in the brain of its unknown
author and became the “Chanson
Roland.” There must have been
dozens of other versions extant—the
Basques would have had one, the
Spaniards another, the Moors another,
the French another, just as the generals
of the late Great War, German,
English, Russian, American and
Italian, have different versions of this
or that campaign or battle.
In the “Song” Charlemagne becomes
a bearded giant thirty-feet tall and 200
years old mounted on an enormous
charger and splendidly accoutred; and
his knights, while not built on quite
such generous lines, are worthy symbols


ECONOMIC AND TECHNICAL PROBLEMS
OF AUSTRALIA'S RURAL INDUSTRIES
By D. a WILLIAMS
A comprehensive survey, prepared for the International Conference of Agricultural
Economists, of agricultural production and price policies, including marketing,
taxation, settlement schemes;, mechanisation, pest control, pasture improvement and
advisory services. The author stresses the fundamental significance of the fact that
many of the more recent scientific and technical discoveries are particularly suitable
for adaptation under Australian conditions. 27/6 (post 7dt.)
Available from recognised booksellers and from
MELBOURNE UNIVERSITY PRESS,
Carlton, N. 3; and 369 Lonsdale Street, C.l, Victoria.
An exciting novel of motor racing
THE GREEN HELMET
Jon Cleary
The brilliant Australian author of The Climate of Courage has turned to
the world of speed, thrills and excitement in this, his latest book. He writes
superbly of fear and danger, of the clash and conflict of character as well
as the clash of metal.
Ready
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
At all
Booksellers
THE FORTUNE HUNTERS
by Frank Clune
“Australia’s Wild West is not as wild as it used to be, but there’s still plenty of adventure
for fortune-hunting in the Never-Never Land,” says Frank Clune, introducing his latest
book. His quest for an atomic fortune took him on a trip of 3,000 miles through the outback
of Australia —through Broken Hill, Alice Springs, Rum Jungle, Darwin and Arnhem Land.
In vivid Clune style he describes his wanderings and the characters he met along the track.
Illustrated. 25/- (post 9d.)
Available from all booksellers and . . ,
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
for the giant war being waged between
the Cross and Crescent. To make
matters all square the paynim knights
are equally well treated, and although
they are the evil spawn of the devil
Mahound they are at heart as noble
and chivalrous in fight as the
Christians. The slaughter is always
on a grand scale and is entirely
individual. The poor damn’ infantry
never get a mention.
There is a fighting bishop with a
sense of humor who symbolises the
Church Militant and who kills with a
good conscience because he is fighting
for God’s kingdom on earth; and there
is a pagan queen who does the right
thing by renouncing Islam and espous-
ing a Christian husband—this is the
only reference the “Song” makes to
women. Romantic sex had no interest
for the author. Roland loves fighting
for its own sake and would probably
have agreed with Napoleon’s dictum
that women are the recreation of the
warrior but the death of the ordinary
man.
Dorothy Sayers’s translation in
rough, rushing verse in which rhyme
is accidental makes the “Song” as living
a story as the “Odyssey” of Homer.
By way of twentieth-century con-
trast, there is Franz Kafka’s The
Castle, Kafka is completely absorbed
in the internal struggle between his
own soul and the invisible powers of
authority, and in this struggle there
are no mighty knights in armor or
titanic battles but only a succession
of commonplace incidents and every-
day events piled one on top of another
to similarly symbolic heights.
Edmund Blunden
Though everyone, as is inevitable in
a selection, will miss some old favorites
(where is the one about the “correla-
tion” of birds and wintry sunset?), it is
good to see a generous display of old
and new work in Edmund Blunden’s
Poems of Many Years (Collins).
Included in Richard Church’s “Eight
for Immortality,” praised by even the
younger generation of critics, he is one
of the few “Georgians” generally
admitted to have survived his period,
assured of a place beside Clare and
Crabbe in the long English tradition.
The difference between Blunden and
most of the other Georgians—the
reason why he has outlasted them—is
simply one of intensity. The country-
side which they saw as a pleasant place
for the weekend, he saw and felt as
the naked force of the earth:—
You see me here,
And you huddle past and shiver;
One glance, you disappear,
Leaving me, a dull brown thicket,
beside a grey-gorged river.
I beg no grace of yours;
You have seen me, I go with you,
in or out of doors;
My thin blood will not wash out,
My purple brambles will mantle you
about,
My thorny claspings pierce
Into your verse.
With his famous poems of the First
World War, with poems from Japan,
poems on English writers, poems of
personalities, poems of philosophy and
reflection, his output is varied. With
so many lovely evocations of earth and
water and sun fight (but where is that
most glittering piece of water in “The
Watcher”?) it is a most pleasant book
to wander through. But it is always
in the roughness, the harshness, the
dark and tempestuous force of Nature
that he finds his most memorable
images; and, re-reading “Festubert:
the Old German Line,” one can hardly
doubt that it was the war which
sharpened and deepened his percep-
tion beyond that of his contemporaries.
He came to the English countryside
after the fields of Flanders: —
Sparse mists of moonlight hurt our
eyes
With gouged and scourged uncer-
tainties
Of soul and soil in agonies . . „
Still zipped across the gouts of lead
Or cracked like wbipcracks over-
head ;
The grey rags fluttered on the dead.
He is essentially a Nature-poet—and
why not?: the whole universe is Nature
—but a Nature-poet of rare force:
meticulous and thoroughly authentic in
his observation, full of charm and
humor in his lighter moments, solid as
a piece of his own earth through the
changes of fashion.
The 1956 Grace Leven prize for
poetry (£5O) has been awarded to
James McAuley for “A Vision of
Ceremony.”


You are paying millions of pounds a year for
Australia’s thousands of miles of crumbling, out-
moded roads and congested city streets.
Whether you’re a car owner or not somewhere
along the line you are paying for Australia’s pot-
holes and other road deficiencies. When a truck
carrying a load of produce from farm to market is
damaged by a pot-hole, you pay for it. You pay
again when traffic congestion and other hazards
cause transport delays. The increased costs for
needlessly wasted fuel, greater maintenance and
depreciation costs and higher insurance premiums
are eventually passed on to you,
It is estimated that the cost of freight is 6/- in
every pound you spend on consumer goods. Experts
agree that this is twice as high as it should be and
the main reason is bad roads. Don’t you agree then
that it is time we did something about our bad roads?
Australia has the engineers, the manpower, the
ingenuity and all the means to build good roads.
Now we need a blueprint for further action.
An Australian National Roads Authority, a single
body backed by the necessary powers and funds,
could be the first step in bringing our roads into
line with today’s . . . and tomorrow’s requirements.
Such an Authority could co-ordinate the plans of
existing State and shire road-making bodies, who
are doing their best under great difficulties to keep
our roads open, so that our road construction pro-
gramme keeps pace with other phases of national
development. Good roads don’t cost they pay !
CATERPILLAR*
When you think
of better roads
think of the
big yellow machines
that help build them.
Kll7
CATERPILLAR AND CAT ARC
REGISTERED TRADE MARKS OP
CATERPILLAR TRACTOR CO.. O.S.A
fO*
0A° S
a &***
tte*
x ... •■■■■'
'pi
CATERPILLAR Of 1 AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.) MELBOURNE) VICTORIA.
