

The Bulletin
Is there a Wool Cartel ?—page 36
Wednesday , October 8 , 1958
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission hjr post as a newspaper.
"O.K., if they won't buy our coconuts, we won't buy their cars."


BOOKS BOUGHT
We visit you in the City and Suburbs
Immediate Cash Payment
Valuations made for Probate
BW 7874
(After Hours -IY 1131)
BERKELOUW
114 King Street, (Between Pitt and
Castlereagh Streets), Sydney.
iiOOKHUNTIiB, Box 2671, 0.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you— fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
lee only if successful.
Special Interest to Writers
101 PLOTS USED AND ABUSED
by JAMES N. YOUNG,
20 years Fiction Editor of Collier s.
Here's 101 different short story plots each
outlined in less than 200 words—a “must’' for
anv short story writer who hopes to sell oa
the 1,000 dollar market in America.
This unique book (hard cover, dust jacket)
now available for the first time in limited
quantity at 19/6 per copy post free. Also
send for your 1958-59 edition of Australian
Writers’ Marketing Guide at 12/C per copy,
post free.
Return Mail Service
ARAWA DISTRIBUTING CO.,
Dept. 81, Box 5151, G.P.0., Sydney.
The Red Page
THE OPAL TOOTH
It is a wonderful and fearful thought
that, after all our own writers have dis-
covered the outback and eaten it bare
as if a flock of grasshoppers or goats
had passed over it, a million New
Australians are going to find it and,
very likely, write a million more books
about it.
Yet it remains true that any place,
even Sydney, even Coober Pedy, still
has a worth-while book in it for the
writer who, instead of just gulping the
usual tourist information, stays there
long enough to observe intimately;
and that is just what M. D. Berrington
has done in Stones of Fire (Robertson
and Mullens): she stayed many long,
hot months in Coober Pedy.
An immigrant from England, Miss
Berrington had hardly set foot in Aus-
tralia before she was whizzing or lurch-
ing to the waybacks in the ’Ghan; and
if we have heard that one before it
must be admitted that there is a certain
unexpected charm in her account of
the terrors of the journey through the
night:—
The train started again and the
shearers were busy settling in at
their end of the carriage. One of
them spoke, and the others glanced
with low laughs in my direction.
Apprehension gripped me, but I
remained motionless, watching. *
The one who had spoken crept
stealthily towards me. Petrified with
fright, I shut my eyes and clenched
my teeth —frozen, in more senses
than one. And then ... a delicious
warmth stole over me. Gently he
laid one of his blankets across my
legs. It was my first example of
bush kindness.
But this, pleasing though it is, is
Miss Berrington speaking merely as an
immigrant; and the real point of interest
in her book is that, at least by the time
she has finished it, she is a thoroughly
experienced bush man, an opal-gouger
of Coober Pedy and Andamooka who
has slept out under the stars or in a
brush-hut of her own building, cooked
brandy-snaps in a camp-oven, tamed a
wild dog, dug shafts and fired dyna-
mite charges with her own hands
and, quite often enough to fill the reader
with envy and admiration, found very
nice parcels of opal:—
Pulling myself together, I care-
fully, but as quickly as possible,
cut out the overlying ground. When
this was done, before me lay as neat
a little pocket of opal as could be
found. The size of a large dinner-
plate, the pieces composing it fitted
together as perfectly as the A.P.M.’s
dance-floor. One piece was missing
—the piece that had fallen out and
was now safely in my possession.
This was the easiest money I ever
earned. All I had to do was pick
up the pieces and drop them in my
opal-bag. I knew more about the
quality of opal now and could see
that this parcel was of very much
higher quality than the previous
one The week-end brought Roger
[her brother] and more opal. His
were beautiful fiery stones. And the
depth of his shaft? Eighteen inches!
He gave me a piece to keep, and
later I cut it myself and had it set
in a ring.
One of the miners, the ingenious Mr.
Westway, went a good deal further than
Miss Berrington when he wanted a
souvenir of the fields, and made himself
an opal tooth —a whole set of them
would really be something to see, and
even a solitary molar must have been
a rare and radiant spectacle, and a nice
epitome of the romance that underlies
this wild and laborious trade:—
We were in the middle of an early
breakfast when Mr. Westway came
along. At one time he had been on
Coober Pedy, where his ingenuity
was a byword. He could do any-
thing—l was going to say—with an
engine, until, crowding in on me
came the memory of the car he cut
in half and lengthened because he
needed more room ; the opal-slicing
machine he made ; the caravan he
built. He could play practically any
instrument, and, on one occasion,
having broken a tooth from his den-
tures, he made a perfect replacement
out of a piece of toothbrush-handle.
This gave him an idea. Next time
I saw him I received a flashing smile
—the flash being red and green in
color. It came from a detachable
opal tooth he had now made for
the edification of his friends.
It was at Andamooka, the new field
350 miles from Coober Pedy, that Miss
Berrington saw the opal tooth; and
pioneering here —she and her brother
were among the first arrivals —she saw
many other exotic objects: “opal
butterflies,” which are real butterflies
or moths with wings as radiant as the
opal; hailstones as big as pingpong-
balls which battered her brush-shelter
and were followed by rains which filled
the desert with frogs and lilies and
spinach; and, perhaps the most remark-
able of all, an old boot which, with a
memorable stench, was being baked in
a camp-oven as a cure for “rope” in
the bread ... an altogether mysterious,
but apparently effective, remedy.
Wherever she goes, Coober Pedy, the
Five Mile, Andamooka, Miss Berring-
ton has similar curiosities to report —
most notably the hatter who used to
play poker with his dog and only
raised his voice when the dog played
a wrong card —and altogether, with her
alert eye, her enthusiasm, her courage,
and her willingness to stay long enough
in these outlandish places to write like
a native inhabitant, not a tourist —she
has written a very good book.
SONG FOR A BIRTHDAY
Suddenly on the border you
Falter, poised between
Two kingdoms: the one you leave
Tiny, miraculous, green,
While yellowing savannahs spread
Over the trackless miles ahead.
Suddenly above you now
Clouds unveil the sun ;
Rocks and trees burst into song;
Dry-bed rivers run;
The frontier guards who man the gate
Drink, your health and celebrate.
Suddenly all childhood things
Hold their song, are still —
Rabbits, pebbles, hoops and kings;
Now across the hill
A changeling makes her way, to move
Upon the giant plains of love.
vic.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE.
More Paperbacks
Almost every week, it seems, there
is a new English paperback library, and
every week the paperback becomes
more respectable. Faber, the latest in
the field, has lifted it to so high a
plane in the “Faber Paper-covered
Editions” series that it can hardly go
(Continued on page 58)


7%e PtytobM ffiwe IN THE LORRY FIELD
MORE OPERATORS SELECT INTERNATIONAL
TRUCKS EACH YEAR!”
<3*3
'W
/
X
QUO
I put my foot on the bumper bar and gave my
friend the facts . . . “THE FIGURES PROVE”,
I told him, “there have been more International
Trucks sold to the lorry market in the last three
years than any other make and each year a
greater percentage of lorry operators choose
International.” I offered a cigarette and went
right on
“The official registration figures show that in
1955, 23.2% of all lorries sold in Australia were
International Trucks. In 1956, this increased to
23.9%, and last year sales rocketed up to 26.9%
of the total market a far greater proportion
than any competitor.
“This overwhelming preference for International
Trucks is easy to understand when you look at
some of the features. Their new Tilt-Valve
Australian Black Diamond Engines have got all
the usable horsepower you would want. Their
all-truck-built construction means they last
longer on even the toughest jobs. Comfo-vision
cabs guarantee maximum comfort, visibility and
convenience. They’ve got the biggest range of
models, too.
“I bought International”, I concluded, “after I
studied those figures. But don’t you take my word
for it call at your nearest International
Harvester Office or I.H. Dealer. They have the
truck-performance facts in which you’ll really
be interested. They are truck specialists!”
INTERNATIONAL
TRUCKS
FMT-794/36
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, October 8, 1958
Vol 79—No. 4104
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adama
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252]; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace.
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
THIRTEENTH BIRTHDAY
'T'HE happy band of propagandists
■*- who batten on the United Nations
organisation are enjoying a riotous
time preparing for the 13th birthday
of their benefactor, which falls on
October 24.
If all the pamphlets which are being
distributed at the expense of the 81
member-nations were dropped on all
the aggressors of the earth those pests
would disappear from sight for ever
under mountains of expensive paper
and printing.
The main conclusion to be drawn
from a perusal of typical samples of
this literature is that the U.N. lives in a
dream-world of its own, detached from
realities and bemused with words. Its
view of itself and its performances
smack of Micawber. It utters its ukase,
and its amen is always: “Thank
Heaven that’s accomplished,” even
though nothing is produced save new
dissension, new displays of guile and
new violence, both physical and against
the moral law of nations.
The very nature of its versions of
history are apt to produce conflict, for
the U.N. secretariat seems more eager
to claim credit for every cease-fire than
to explain why every action of U.N.
seems to lead to fresh aggressions and
fresh international confusions.
The present picture of peace as
secured and policed by the U.N. is
inspiring to nobody save perhaps those
who are living on its bounty, and the
small army who are able to indulge
annually in luxurious foreign travel to
attend its multitude of conferences and
to man its multitude of busybodyings.
In the world today there is one main
cleavage between nations, based on
the ideal of conquest of the earth by
international Communism in a,world-
wide revolution achieved by subversion
and war. The U.N., by providing a
platform on which the subverters and
revolutionists may address the world
and apply rules to veto international
proceedings, has helped rather than
hindered this revolution.
In its birthday publicity U.N.O.
claims credit for specific positive
actions by which it has achieved great
deeds of negotiation and conciliation.
The first was “the conflict in the former
mandated territory of Palestine”; but
it modestly fails to say that the tangible
result of its negotiation in that matter
was the creation of a running sore in
the Middle East which generated
Nasser’s Arab League and still presents
problems that seem insoluble.
It claims credit for its part in
“Indonesia’s struggle for independ-
ence,” failing to say that 12 years after
the event Indonesia is riot independent
of the economy of others, that it is not
even a united whole, but a mass of
conflict, civil war, intrigue and oppres-
sion carried-on against the background
of a wilting economy, and of Com-
munist infiltration and territorial ambi-
tion which are far more a danger to the
welfare of the Indonesian peoples and
to the peace of the world than was the
mild colonial rule of the Netherlands.
It vaunts its part in dealing with
the “aggression in Korea,” apparently
oblivious of the fact that the division
of Korea had been made within its*
ambit and that when aggression
flared-up there it was only tackled
seriously because the conflict was one
between the United States and the
Communist bloc for control of the
approaches to Japan.
Its pride at the “unhesitating”
manner in which it dealt with what it
calls “the 1956 .attack against Egypt”
scarcely seems justified in the light of
subsequent events. Its intervention, or
rather its token intervention as an agent
for the United States and Russia, has
resulted in the ousting of the only
forces which, through experienced
diplomacy, had kept or could keep the
peace in those areas, and their replace-
ment by a mass of intriguing
medievalists led by Nasser and used by
Moscow as the servants of Communist
ambition.
The plotting of Nasser in Jordan,
in Syria, in Lebanon, in Libya, in
Algeria and in other African countries
has been the main disturbing element in
turning the countries round the Medi-
terranean into a battleground in which
there is daily bloodshed and in which
the only people who are not standing
to arms, or under threat of somebody
else who is armed and looking ( for
fight, are the polyglot members of the
U.N. armies, which are not intended
to fight.
Every settlement in the Middle East
brings fresh aggressions and fresh con-
frontations of each other by increas-
ingly powerful forces of Americans and
Russians and their allies.
The culmination of U.N. operations
in the region seems to be the election of
Dr. Malik, Foreign Minister of
Lebanon, as its President for 1958-59.
The little country which he represents
has a population smaller than that of
Sydney. It is a seething mass of con-
fused and conflicting nationalities,
unable to keep the peace within its
own borders. Its emissary, now elected
to the U.N. chair, is a member of the
Greek Orthodox Church, United States
educated (with a doctor’s degree from
Harvard) and very much under the
suspicion of being an instrument of
Mr. Dulles.
He has the violent opposition of a
large section of his Moslem compatriots
and of an even larger number of
Nasser’s infiltrates; his election was
celebrated in his capital by “jubilant
small-arms” fire from one local faction
engaged in fighting another faction.
The new president’s position is
unstable, and that of U.N. might be a
little ludicrous if he were ousted by
rivals from his position of Lebanese
delegate, as he probably would have
been already if it were not for the
presence of American Marines in
Beirut.
The prestige which the presidency'
of U.N. carries and the eagerness with
which the delegates of the greater and
more stable nations rush the oppor-
tunity to lead its World Assembly can
"be judged by the fact that Dr. Malik's
only rival for the presidency, one having
the support of the Communist bloc and
Nasser’s Arab Federation and its jackal
supporters, was Mohammed Ahmed
Mahgoub. Sudanese Minister for
Foreign Affairs, who was defeated by
45 votes to 31.
Less than a fortnight later it has
transpired that his main supporters in
Moscow and Cairo were engaged,
while seeking his election, in an inten-
sive infiltration plot to capture the
Sudan, to give themselves full control of
the Nile and one of them a breeding-
ground for Communism in the heart
of Africa.
The new chairman of the First
Political and Security Committee of
U.N. comes from El Salvador, a
country of 8000 square-miles, with an
undernourished population, largely
barefooted, with a birthrate of 48.8
per 1000 and an infantile deathrate of
84.5 per 1000. The “Special Political
Committee” is chaired by a democrat
from Rumania.
In spite of all its advertising, U.N.
does not inspire much confidence, and
it has undoubtedly done all too much
during its 13 years of existence to open
channels for Communist infiltration in
the Western world, to forward the
influence of two great contending
Power blocs and to provide shields for
Asian dictatorships with ambitions
territorial and otherwise.


"Let's have a little game. A thousand quid to see her go."


PLAIN ENGLISH
Amending the Constitution
There is nothing very unexpected about
the report of the Ail-party Committee
on the Federal Constitution, but the scope
of the report suggests that there has been
a lot of barter and manoeuvre with the
elections in view.
It was easy for Labor members to
agree to the need for concession to
Federal Parliament of wider powers to
deal with hire-purchase, mortgage-
interest, capital issues and borrowing,
industrial conditions, nuclear energy,
transport, scientific research, broadcast-
ing and matters affecting trade between
the States, because those are all matters
in which they are vitally interested.
Labor policy is all for centralisation.
Equally, Labor would have had no diffi-
culty in agreeing to the reform of the
powers of the Commonwealth in the
creation of new States, because it could
be assumed that in conjunction with
powers of creation it would have the
right to determine what the nature of
the States should be.
One important recommendation is the
one which will enable the creation of
new States without the consent of State
Parliaments. The reservation of power
to the States at present seems to remove
the division of existing States from the
realm of practical politics.
Immediately important are the pro-
posals for the reform of the Constitution
of the Parliamentary Houses. It is recom-
mended that the existing two-to-one ratio
of Reps, to Senators should be jettisoned
and that Parliament should be given new r
powers to determine the number of
Senators, subject to the provisos that the
six original States should each have equal
representation and that no original State
should have less than six or more than
10 Senators.
The committee recommended fixing
the strength of electorates at 80,000
average, which is round about the present
figure, leading to an increase of 28 mem-
bers in the House of Representatives by
about 1968, when the population is
expected to reach 12 million. It is
proposed that dates of election of the
two Houses should synchronise; that
disputed measures should be presented
without existing formalities to joint
sittings of the two Houses.
Another recommendation is that
Section 128 of the Constitution be
amended so as to provide that in future
a majority of all Commonwealth voters
and a majority in only at least half the
States shall be sufficient to pass a
referendum.
The weaknesses and ambiguities of the
report are made manifest by the minority
reports of Senator Wright, of Tasmania,
and Mr. Downer, Minister for Immigra-
tion. The former declares that it would
be better to abolish the Senate than to
have it continue to exist as an echo of
the House of Representatives—as it
would undoubtedly be under the pro-
posed set-up. There is merit in his
proposal that the Upper House should
be turned into a proper House of Review
by the removal of Ministers from it and
its reconstitution free of the influence
of executive direction from the Cabinet.
And there is reason in Mr. Downer’s
strong leaning towards going the whole
hog to prevent industrial strife without
the hampering processes of conciliation
and arbitration,
Contrast in Publicity
•
Two .booklets published recently deal
with subjects of major importance to
Australians. One, published at The
Hague, is on the subject of Netherlands
New Guinea ; the other, from Canberra,
deals with aboriginal welfare in the
Northern Territory.
The Australian booklet is presumably
meant for distribution overseas, although
the subject is of sufficient, interest and
importance to warrant many Australians
knowing more about it. The illustra-
tions, many of them old, and mostly
either obviously posed or drably dull —
some both —lack any apparent effort to
present the dramatic story that needs
telling of endeavors to handle the
problems of a picturesque and primi-
tive race, in varied natural settings,
coming into closer and difficult contact
with white civilisation. The letterpress
is stilted, a typical example being:
“Their adaptation to our concepts of
housing is a slow process during which
many of them have to be persuaded not
to use their dwellings for firewood or
otherwise damage or befoul them.” The
booklet, more than half of which deals
with Government and mission settle-
ments, no doubt has some value as a
work of reference, but it must fail com-
pletely as the propaganda piece it was
presumably intended to be.
The Dutch booklet is also topical
propaganda, and as such, both its illustra-
tions and its letterpress indicate what
can be done in small compass. It is a
skilful job, and impressive in itself, apart
from any view's which may be held on
the political problem of West New
Guinea. Its writing is crisper. An
example: “Much building activity was
begun. As a result, Hollandia, Mano-
kwari and Biak now look like shining
new cities with residential quarters and
office-buildings offering a substantial
improvement over the facilities of a few
years ago.” As contrasts in the art of
persuasion, the tw'o booklets should be
studied. Departmental Australia still has
much to learn.
©fF-the-turf Bets
Victorian Cabinet has been fortunate
to persuade Mr. Justice Martin, who
retired from the Supreme Court Bench
in February last year, to head the Royal
Commission on Off-the-course Betting.
Sittings will begin almost at once.
The Government regards the inquiry
as highly important from a social and
racing-administration viewpoint as well
as its owm, and it was reported to have
been in considerable difficulty in finding
a commissioner of the required tonnage.
The almost traditional practice of
appointing a judge from the Supreme
Court as a royal commissioner is now
frowned on, as Chief Justice Herring
is believed to be strongly opposed to
Supreme Court justices sitting on con-
troversial issues which may have political
elements. Moreover, the absence of
one judge adds to the labors of the
Supreme Court Bench and delays
its work. A bill to increase the number
of Supreme and County Courts judges is
now before Parliament.
Justice Martin, who was appointed to
the Bench when young Bob Menzies was
Victorian Attorney-General, will be asked
to report on the social evils of off-the-
course betting ; its financial extent, and
the likely revenue for the Government
if it legislates for off-the-course betting.
A Watchdog Barks Twice
Dodging from hollow log to hollow log,
the Cahill Government found itself at bay
over the N. S. Wales Auditor-General’s
report, which came out last week and
contained further items to add to the roll
of accusations against the Government’s
administration.
One was the overdraft of the Metro-
politan Cement Company, which
increased from £4,081,179 to £4,243,080
in the year and which had been the sub-
ject of a barrage of criticism ever since
the curious birth of the company some
years ago.
The A.-G.’s curreht criticism _ could
scarcely have been more devastating ; it
seemed to- show that the company’s state-
ment of profits was delusive, its assets
overstated and its accumulated losses
understated.
He placed its total wastage of capital
to December 31, 1957, at £1,750,000, and
he unearthed a general situation which led
him to feel that the company might need
new capital. He added:
Underlying the whole position is the
fear that the (Rural) Bank by reason of
its existing large commitments may persist
in its course of adventurous lending to
the company. Whatever the future results
of trading may prove to be, on the history
of the loan and the continued ditemma of
the company, the outlook of the bank
to its own security and prospects, as
expressed in its reports and statements over
the past year by the Board of Commis-
sioners, can only be described as unreasoned
and unrealistic.
The history of the Rural Bank's trans-
actions with the Co-operative Dairy
Association of N.S.W., Ltd., is also
remarkable. Its advances to this concern
total £976,314 —to a company which has
raised only £lB,lBl as share-subscriptions
by way of risk-capital and which at Sep-
tember 30, 1957, had accumulated losses
of £297,575. ~ The losses have been
financed by extensions to the associa-
tion’s overdraft, and the Auditor-General
is “given to understand that the posi-
tion of the association is now desperate
and that a very large loss is to be expected
in the event of liquidation... .by far the
greater part (of which) will fall upon
the bank.”
On the same day that this news broke


Mr. Cahill had to meet charges based
on the Auditor-General’s statement that
it appeared that Housing Minister
Landa had intervened to override the
decision of the chairman of the commis-
sion in the matter of payments to a
contractor who was in the hands of a
receiver and that he had taken this action
after representations had been made to
the commission by a timber company
which was a client of Mr. Landa’s legal
firm. The Auditor-General reported:
Summarised, a consideration of fact and
inference points to incompatibility in the
Minister’s official and professional relation-
ship to this case. The Minister would, L
submit, need weighty reason to justify his
action in interposing in the affairs of the
Receivership and for withholding progress
sums due and rightly payable to the
contractor company.
Under pressure from the Opposition,
the Premier announced that at his own
request the Minister had been relieved of
his portfolio and that Mr. Justice Herron
had been appointed to conduct a royal
commission into the charges. This deci-
sion raised two points of puzzlement.
First, why did Cahill have to wait for
Opposition prodding when Cabinet had
known the facts for some time. Second,
how did he square-up the appointment
of a royal commission with his recent
attitude (in connection with police
charges) that royal commissions never
settle anything?
As to the cement company’s overdraft,
Mr. Cahill says an independent account-
ant has been appointed by the company,
with the concurrence of the bank, “to
investigate the company’s position and
trading prospects.” The situation seems
to call less for an accountant than for
a diviner. His job would be to find the
magic talisman that enables Metropolitan
Cement and the Co-operative Dairy
Association to loosen their bankers’
purse-strings when much sounder con-
cerns are being asked to reduce their
overdrafts.
Hire-purchase in Victoria
Designed to protect the unwary citizen
against snide operators on the fringe of
the h.-p. business, and from his own
acquisitiveness when articles are clearly
beyond his means, the bill read in the
Victorian Assembly by Attorney-General
Rylah is an admirable effort to cope with
the hire-purchase problem.
For more than a year the Bolte Cabinet
refused to consider legislating on this
subject because h.-p. had proved such a
stimulus to business and was almost the
only means by which costly goods could
be acquired by persons with small in-
comes. But the business grew so rapidly,
and with it the number of doubtful prac-
titioners, that Cabinet was forced to act.
The bill does not attempt to regulate
interest-rates ; Rylah says these are the
lowest in the world, and, in any case,
will be kept in check by competition
within the industry. It makes mandatory
a minimum deposit of 10 per cent, of
the cash value, all details of-the transac-
tion, including the gross purchase-price,
must be shown in writing, and in the
event of repossession, only the actual
loss incurred by the h.-p. company may
be recovered.
Buyers are also given the option under
the bill of choosing their own insurance-
companies, and in advertising, the deposit
must be clearly shown, or the percentage
of the cash-price. Dealers will be per-
mitted only one-tenth commission of the
total terms charges made by the hire-
purchase company, and a buyer desiring
to pay-off the balance may do so and
must receive a fair rebate.
In. his second-reading speech Rylah
sounded-off against the fringe operators,
promising them swift prosecution and
heavy penalties for breaches of the law,
but he paid a tribute to the hire-purchase
business generally “because of its con-
tinuing excellent service.”
Investigations by departmental officers
have indicated that complaints of wide-
spread malpractice have been greatly
exaggerated (sometimes for political
reasons): but some publicised stories of
financial tragedy for unfortunate families
through misguided h.-p. dealings have
been touchingly real, and the decision
to make fair-dealing the law, rather than
the rule, is wholly commendable.
Indemnity-payments
The Senate Select Committee which
investigated “ship indemnity payments”
has come to the conclusion, inescapable
on the evidence, that the maritime unions
involved were guilty of extortion, con-
spiracy and intimidation. In its report the
committee suggested that counsel examine
this evidence with a view to legal pro-
ceedings under State or Federal law and
that if it was found that the present law
did not apply, the Statutes should be
amended to prohibit the use of union-
pressure to exact payments from the
owners of ships sold abroad in Australian
waters.
The committee found that the unions
connected with the Maritime Transport
Council had received £47,275 between
August, 1955, and August, 1957, in these
blackmailing exactions, the Seamen’s
Union receiving over £36,000, the
Stewards’ Union £4494, the Cooks’ Union
just on £4OOO, the Radio Employees
£1846 and the Shipwrights £497.
These payments —“destructive to union
integrity... .acts of a highly improper
character”—were extorted, it declared,
“by—in some cases —boycott and express
threats and in other cases implied threats
to and intimidation of the purchasers to
hold-up the ships unless payments were
made”:
The taking of an indemnity is a corrupt
practice and the giving of the payment is
likewise most improper.
And the whole proceedings con-
travened Section 30K of the Crimes Act
which provided a year’s jail-sentence for
using intimidation to obstruct or hinder
the transport of g00d5....0r to prevent
any person working on the transport of
these goods.
The committee remarked that the law
was in a shocking state if the union
entrusted with the control and direction
of a crew lawfully could demand
indemnity-payments, especially in respect
of unsafe ships.
The inquiry revealed that the so-called
Maritime Transport Council, which had
been the negotiating body for the unions,
was a mere ghost committee with no
constitution or rules, no office-bearers
save a token secretary, that it kept no
records, was not registered under the
Conciliation and Arbitration Act, kept
no account - books moneys received
being mostly disbursed without receipts
being given—and had no responsibility
to the A.C.T.U., whose ban on indemnity-
payments had not been even considered
by the council a year after it was
imposed.
It would be interesting to hear Dr.
Evatt and some of his followers on the
proceedings of the unions involved —
unions which are associated with the
A.L.P. and with the provision of its
election funds.
So far, however, they seem to have
greeted the report with complete silence.
Any Defence
[From “Stromlo”J
To the lay observer the apathy about
civil defence stems from a fairly general
belief that the weapons of attack have
so outstripped the modes of military and
civil protection that it is a waste of time
and energy worrying.
If these surmises are right (the defence
people do not accept them, at least
publicly), then we might as well concen-
trate on the best ways of retaliating
against anyone who hits us —if we are
capable of hitting back after suffering
the initial blows. It appears, again to
the lay observer, that if we are to be
attacked it will be either with the “con-
ventional weapons' 5 (a not-wholly com-
forting phrase used to describe the mutual
terror which may prevent the use of the
ultimate weapons of hydrogen-bombs),
or by a mixture of ballistic missiles
coming from thousands of miles away
and nuclear bombs launched from sub-
marines lying far out in the Pacific or
Indian Oceans. First Lord of the
Admiralty Lord Selkirk suggested
during his brief visit here that a com-
bination of fast craft, planes and heli-
copters might be effective against an
enemy’s submarines, but, if so, the Navy
must have a lot more equipment and
devices than it has revealed.
If we are really wide open to an attack,
surprise or otherwise, we are not alone.
The Kremlin and Washington, for
example, are both aware that each can
now be blasted off the earth with little
or no chance of diverting or destroying
all the attacking weapons en route. The
question now appears to be whether Aus-
tralia should embark on the costly task
of civil defence against the “conven-
tional” stuff, or concentrate on
assembling, within the limits of our
resources, an attacking force powerful
enough to give pause to any potential
enemy. Surely this is the problem in
essence. If it is, then the Government
can surely acknowledge it, and discuss
publicly the problems involved.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
Was telling my music - appreciation
class the story of Richard
Wagner and his music-dramas and
rounded - off the lesson by playing a
recording of the Bridal Chorus from
“Lohengrin,” after explaining that this
was a piece usually played when the
bride promenades up the church-aisle on
the great day. Unanimous decision of
class when the record was finished:
“Long aisle, sir.” —“Maitri.”
♦Jt >l*
“Inmate”: In reply to “Maitri’’ (B.
24/9/’58): Our school has not “given up
hope,” but our Principal considered
“Ladies' College” outmoded. The reason
for the institution-like sign “School for
Girls” is that the more obvious one,
M.G.S. (Methodist Girls’ School), looks
too much like “MUGS.”
* ❖ *
“Kate”: “Yes,” agreed the salesman
who’d been trying to tempt me into
buying, at a ridiculous price, a pair of
evening-sandals that consisted of nothing
but heels and a strap, “you’re right;
the less there is there, the more you pay
for. Not like the good old days when
you got your money’s worth with
button-up boots!” I’d take him to be in
his late twenties: for his tribute to my
memory—no sale!
❖ *X*
“T.G.M.”: Years ago when N.S.W.
Premier J. J. Cahill, who was
Minister for Works and Local Govern-
ment, was deputed to represent the then
Premier at a performance of the Kirsova
Ballet, he was entrusted with a sheaf
of flowers to present to Helene Kirsova
at the conclusion of the performance.
When Joe got up to make his way
to the stage, .the orchestra took it as
the cue for the National Anthem. So
Joe had to proceed like any other
admirer, round to the stage-door and
hand the flowers over there!
*x+ <+
“Sparks”: Four-line news-item on
page-three of a Brisbane daily:
Hollywood, Thurs. (A.A.P.): Actor
Keenan Wynn's wife threatened to leave
him last night, but changed her mind.
Even in Sydney there are newspapers
“Any names I may mention while anaesthetised are fictitious and bear no
relation to any living person .”
that might have overlooked the signi-
ficance of a bit of news like that.
“Yakipan”: Although Melbourne has
switched over to one-class travel on
suburban lines, the Ist- and 2nd-class
coaches are still being used. Apparently
the distinguishing numerals will soon be
painted out, but it will be some while
before the interiors are identical. Many
previous buyers of lst-class tickets have
been forced out of their old lst-class
coaches into 2nd-class coaches, while
former 2nd-class travellers now swarm
into the better lst-class coaches. The
ejected cast on the usurpers the sort of
look the French aristocrats, from their
tumbrils, must have given the Paris mob,
while the old 2nd-classers relax on the
softer seats with a defiant, though
slightly guilty, air. All fares were in-
creased, but the 2nd-class were really
slugged, so perhaps they shouldn’t be
blamed for making a beeline for what
was previously forbidden territory.
<£♦
“Swelpme”: The late Charlie Macart-
ney could turn a joke as neatly as he
could a fast ball. In the days when one
of the most outstanding personalities in
Hollywood was Charlie Macarthy, a
ventriloquist’s doll, and Edgar Bergen,
his creator, the stooge for his barbed
wisecracks, a confused sports-writer
wrote of the cricketer as “Charlie
Macarthy,” Another scribe promptly
showed the article to Macartney with the
facetious: “Is Charlie Macarthy any
relation of yours, Charlie?” Macartney
grinned. “No relation,” he said ; “in fact,
we’ve only got one thing in common —
neither of us can stand Edgar Bergen.”
“Ardoyne”: Ardoyne junior, who
fancies himself as a debater, visited our
State Parliament with a party from his
school to pick up some of the finer
points of public speaking. A few days
later he took part in a school debate,
and'came home downcast. “Lowest I’ve
ever scored,” he admitted ruefully ; “the
adjudicator said I was too abusive and
personal, apd that that sort of thing’s
only tolerated in Parliamentary debates.”
<£♦
“Doynest”: Stereophonic sound, it’s
wonderful: Soon, we’re assured, it may
be possible for radio-listeners to hear
“authentic recordings of an electric-chair
actually electrocuting its occupant, two
rattlesnakes rattling, or even an elephant
sneezing.” Let's hope the occupant of
the electric-chair is the cove making the
record ; that would make it just perfect.
HANGING GARDENS
“Sydney City Council will erect hanging
gardens in Hyde Park similar to those in the
Tivoli Gardens, Copenhagen.”
Of course it's well within their powers,
But sad it is to see
A Labor Council hanging flowers!
Where can their Platform be?
Must Sydney be so recedent,
A Capital of punishment?
Roses have thorns, and use them, too;
And flowery ether smothers
At many maidens’ rendezvous
The wisdom of their mothers ;
Well, flowers and girls may hang
their heads —
How foolish, though, to hang their
beds !
No ! Hanging gardens won’t remove
The evils indicated;
For being accessories to love
They should be segregated
And taught a trade in hothouse
walls
Like making wreaths for funerals!
N.S.W.
S WILLIAM.


Husband, who had left the car
standing on the street all night,
found next morning that the petrol-cap
had been wrenched off and a tankful of
petrol stolen ; Sonny Jim, sitting down
for breakfast, asked for 3s. to replace
a school locker-key stolen from him the
day before; Little Miss had to have
her hand dressed and bathed —someone
had deliberately pushed her off the
monkey-bars; and while we were all
trying to sharpen our teeth on the tough
piece of breakfast steak, I was letting off
steam about the butcher who’d sold it
to me and tried to short-change me into
the bargain. We’d practically agreed
that the world was full of sharks and
robbers, until we opened the morning
paper and saw a notice about the strip
at Ayr aerodrome, posted in all Queens-
land airports: “Ayr. Plover nesting in
grass five yards from end of run-up area
on north-east, south-west runway. Please
avoid.” There’s hope for mankind!
“Lovers’ Lane.”
♦jf ♦♦♦
“0.W.W.”: The surge of espresso-
coffee bars in Wellington (N.Z.), where
about 25 have opened in about 12
months, has spread to two city-hotel
lounges. Espresso-coffee with rum or
liqueurs costs 2s. 6d. to 4s. 6d. a small
cup!
♦2*
“Jaybee”: A Melbourne newsreel
theatrette, anxious to boost the box-office
attraction of an imported film showing
the fight against cancer, including the
screening of an operation, has employed
a man to parade outside in white
operating-cap and -gown, with rubber
gloves and stethoscope. Lunch-time
crowds may be excused for thinking this
realism was being taken too far when
they saw the “surgeon” chatting
enthusiastically to a chap garbed in a
blood-smeared white coat. Closer inspec-
tion showed that the additional prop, was
an assistant from the adjacent butcher’s
shop, no doubt discussing operations.
♦jt *j*
“Van”: New and enthusiastic, she
was taking a First-year poetry class.
Forty young Australians listened with
flattering attention as she recited Pater-
son’s “Man from Snowy River”; Harri-
son and Clancy and the other riders
chased the wild bush-horses to try to
recapture the colt from old Regret; the
tension increased as the horses made for
the safety of the hills; the riders
reached the summit of the mountain to
see the mob racing down the terrible
descent! In contemplation of the scene,
she paused for dramatic effect: “Even
Clancy took a pill !”
*2* ♦♦♦
There’s current news and advertisements
And racing form and tips,
A crossword puzzle and pin-up girls
And lots of comic-strips;
There’s women’s pages, astrology
And readers’ views and quips —
But what I like best in a newspaper
Is tasty fish and chips.
vie. Bicky.
“Sevenelms” (Yokohama): We were
grateful for the steaming hand-towels
that finalised a Japanese meal, because
our inability to de-tail the shrimps in
the “Tempura” with chopsticks had in-
volved some messy handwork. Later we
were to see a more tender utilisation of
these comforting cotton squares at a
Japanese cabaret, where each tired
businessman at his table-for-two had
presented to him his dance-hostess. As
she seated herself in agreeable proximity
a waiter arrived with hot towel, which
she spread with both hands and wiped
t.-b.-m.’s face from brow to chin with
charming solicitude. He responded with
"Bye-bye, boy! Thanks for having us. Been a crackin' parly."
“Alligator” (thank you), and she riposted
with “Dontouchmymoustache” (You’re
welcome, sir), and there they were, all
friendly. We tired Aussies decided
it was a bonzer way to break the ice,
and a much smoother gambit than “Have
you read any good books lately?”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Glen Park”: Golflands, one of
Adelaide’s newer suburbs, sprang-up so
quickly that roads were unable to keep
pace. This caused difficulty for the
mailmen, so residents selected a central
spot and erected their letter-boxes —103
of them—on what is now locally known
as “Mailbox Alley.”
♦♦♦ <♦ »j<-
“Kenyas”: Instructions on the bottle
of dope I got from the chemist: “One
tablet to be taken thrice daily.” Waste
not, want not.
❖ ❖ *
“Judee”: Amateur historians at New-
castle (N.S.W.) are sharply divided on
how Adamstown, one of the city’s
suburbs, got its name. Some say it came
from one of the district’s earliest settlers,
but now Miss V. J. Adams, of Toronto,
has dug up “Names of Railway Stations,”
published in the Journal of the Royal
Australian Historical Society, Vol. 3:
“Adamstown: In 1879 the town was
surveyed by a man named P. F. Adams,
after whom the town was named.” The
Surveyor-General of N.S.W. from 1868
to 1887 was Philip Francis Adams. A
son, H. W. Adams, died at Toronto this
September.
❖ ♦>
“Cynic”: While on the subject of
modern retailing, let’s add some more
of the things that make most people
mad: three-quarter-filled tubes of tooth-
paste that have to be rolled an inch or
more before they work ; underwear that
is marked O.S. and fits S.S.W. daughter
after one wash; kiddies’ socks that
shrink at the sight of water and shoes
that need repairs after a few wears;
the packets of food that are ounces
short; the skimpiness in everything. All
the cellophane glitter and glamor won’t
cover poor quality. Our age of wonders
may be a great age, but it is also a
short-age.
❖ *x* *x*
“Croid”: They were discussing their
boy-friends in the bus. “And you remem-
ber Bill and the arty way he used to
dress?” said one. “Well, now he’s grown
a beard —he looks such a sissy! ”
❖ ❖
“Bo”: A summer-lover all my life, I
would now be bidding a none-too-fond
farewell to the nippy morn and the biting
westerly were it not for the thought that
with the lengthening days will come
voices over the ether mouthing the same
old boring cliches, for Test-cricket is
on the way. Not that I don’t care for
the game; like as not I’ll be out at
the S.C.G. But I shall also be plagued
over the radio: “That one was gently
tapped back to the bowler”; “Here he
comes in with that leisurely action of
his”; “That one was sneaked past point.”
Every single will, I know in advance,
be a “cheeky” one; and “stolen,” of
course. Fieldsmen will never so far


forget themselves as to run —they will
“streak around the boundary.” That
some veteran analyst-commentator,
during a between-digs post-mortem, will
find a striking parallel between a glance
to fine-leg and one that occurred at Trent
Bridge in 1921 is as certain as that the
wicket at some stage will be described
as a “shirt-front” one. There will be
some humor . . . and there might cast-up
on our shores Neville Cardus or one
of his imitators to draw a parallel be-
tween a late-cut by Norm O’Neill and
a sunset seen in late autumn off the coast
of Madagascar. Whatever the weather
at the time of the Tests, the viewers and
listeners will be on a sticky wicket!
❖ ❖ ❖
“Effembi”: Reading the several para-
graphs about amateur photographers
brought to mind Jack Cato’s auto-
biography, I Can Take It. His father
being headed for, I think, the Antarctic,
Jack fitted him out with a camera
and film, and gave him hasty and brief
instructions on how to operate it. On
returning from his trip Mr. Cato proudly
presented his son with the exposed film,
which, upon being developed, proved to
be 15 spools of excellent exposures of —
his third waistcoat-button!
“Bert the Carpenter”: I’ve solved the
problem of repairing spike-heels (B.
24/9/’5B). First, I remove the leather
tip ; then, with the aid of a hypodermic
syringe made to administer penicillin, I
force into the crack a small quantity
of a waterproof plastic-resin glue. The
heel then has a strip of rubber, cut from
an old car inner-tube, bound around it,
to hold the crack together. The shoe is
placed on a rubber bag containing water
at 150 deg. F., and left till the resin sets.
Then a leather tip is fastened on with
fine brads, tapped into holes drilled
through the leather and into the wood of
the spike-heel with a needle-fine twist-
drill a saving of quids for my daughters ;
“There's the house—transparent plastic throughout."
but that doesn’t stop me wishing I had
in my workshop for about two minutes
the fool who started the fashion.
* ♦+♦
„ _ , ,
Pat : On one of our suburb s steepest
inclines the back-door of a laboring lorry
jerked open and some dozens of pies
went scattering over the road. The lorry
didn’t stop, but several cars did, and
three women scrambled for the loot
“Come on,” I heard one young thing
in tennis-attire urge her friend, seated
passively in the car ; “Don't you want
a free meal?” “I loathe pies,” was the
answer. “So do I,” agreed the first cheer-
fully, “but these will save me cooking
dinner for the rest of the family.”
A A
“Ophir”: That par. about “Charlie’s
glasses” (B. 17/9/’5B) reminds me of a
shop in Blackall (C.Q.) back in ’94. My
father wore glasses ; I wondered if any
in a tray on the counter would suit him.
There were dozens of them, all steel-
framed, nothing ornate. A buyer tested
his eyes by trying on various pairs until
he got those which suited best. They
were tested exhaustively: small print,
large writing, close-up under the eye-
brows and perched on the tip of the
nose. The buyer handed over Is. 6d. and
the deal was complete. Adjoining that
tray of spectacles there was a self-
measurement device for testing eyes ; it
could be hired for a nominal fee and
taken home, a poor sample of an old-
time stereoscope: you held a handle and
slid the view-finder back and forth until
you saw best. Then you took the read-
ing on a graduated scale and you knew
exactly what you wanted —or the dealer
did when you sent him the diagnosis. I
didn’t need specs, in those days, but I
do know quite a few satisfied customers
used to swear by those old steel-frame
jobs.
❖ ❖
“Doynest”: The claim by a typewriter
company that its stock machines stood-
up to “three years’ pounding, non-stop,
day and night, by robot typists” leaves
me unimpressed. What we want in our
office is a typewriter that will still do
a perfect job in spite of infrequent oiling,
continual clogging with fragments of
paper and eraser, pins, staples and other
oddments, exasperated thumpings, inex-
pert prying into its innards with bobby-
pins, and occasional falls while being
shifted from one table to another. In
short, a machine that is proof against
the very worst that a mere frail female
can inflict upon it in a seven-hour work-
ing day.
A GREAT OPPORTUNITY
“When space-travel is perfected man could
become a pioneer-crusader, bringing his civilisa-
tion to inhabitants of far-distant planets.”
The lowly Venusians,
All full of confusions,
Who haven’t our civilisation,
Must welcome a landing
By Earthmen, whose standing
Could rouse only keen admiration.
We’d bring ’em the pleasures
Of such priceless treasures
As juke-boxes, gang-wars, strip-teases.
Hit-running, turf-swabbing,
The fine arts of robbing,
And a beautiful crop of diseases.
The Jupiter-dwellers,
The Martian fellers,
Would really, it’s certain, be tickled
To learn just how thrilling
Is nuclear-killing;
How best to get properly pickled,
To become quite neurotic
From traffic chaotic;
Take tablets for “tranquillisation
Be taught the refinements
Of party-alignments;
The joys to be had from taxation.
In that outer-region
The ways would be legion
To bring light where now there is
darkness:
Soap-operas; maybe
Pop-tunes about “baby”;
And fillums of horror and starkness.
But, best, we could show them
The right way (we owe them
This much, for we’ve expertly striven
To bring to fruition
A work that’s our mission)
To mess-up the globe we’ve been given !
N.s.w.
S.W.K.


"1157H0 would have guessed the successors
** of those old-time actors, who
used to gather socially between shows
in the green room made available by
Williamson’s, would become real-estate
tycoons? Melbourne’s 50-year-old
Green Room Club has sold its 66-year-
old building at 178 Collins Street for
£130,000. The very well-managed club
will remain for a few years at least as a
tenant, and there should be no difficulty
for the new owners in collecting the rent.
—“D.”
“Rassendyll”: Perhaps the unfor-
tunates who use cataclysm (B. 24/9/’5B)
when no water is involved really mean
cataclasm, a violent break, a disruption
(from the Greek, klasma). Shambles
means, ultimately, no more than a stool
or a bench and has no connection with
the shedding of blood. I am prepared
to agree that endorsement meant
originally to write on the back ( dorsum )
of a document—but surely it does so no
longer. I can (often do) endorse a
person’s remarks ; often without even a
glance at his back. Such insistence on
the literal meaning of a word borrowed
from another language is the merest
pedantry. Surely nobody nowadays
insists that journals must appear only at
intervals of one day, or that a journey-
man must be employed at a daily wage?
May I suggest that “Sanasi” read the
article “didacticism” in A Dictionary of
Modern English Usage, by the late and
great H. W. Fowler?
❖ * *
“Bad Penny”: May I apply for elec-
tion to that Club of Those About Whom
There Has Been Mark Twainian Exag-
geration (B. 24/9/’58)? In a steeplechase
my horse put me down and I got kicked
and broke the base of my skull. Woke-
up six days later in hospital, to be told
that the regimental band had been prac-
tising the Dead March for my funeral,
and found that the mess-sergeant had
paid all my local debts and so added a
bit of mess-bill to a steep civilian
hospital-bill. Second time, in Italy I got
in the way of an 88mm. solid-shot. A
"Carm on! Carm on! Snap out of it, Copper !”
sergeant, more lightly wounded, who
came back with me in the ambulance
from the R.A.P., shook me significantly
by the hand as we parted: “Good-bye,
sir; I may not be seeing you again.”
I found that my kit had been auctioned
for regimental funds, and bang went my
sword-stick and a lovely silver bugle-
horn badge I’d just had made in Cairo.
My cousin (now dead), in the Fusiliers
on our right flank, came over to view
the spot where I was supposed to have
been killed and buried!
<s♦ ❖ *•>
“Imperial 55”: It’s the unexpectedness
of the human animal that makes life so
rewarding. He was walking down the
street like an advertisement for a first-
class tailor, faultlessly clothed, homburg
hat, and that confident swagger which
betokens success. I was wondering
whether he was a captain of industry,
heir to an old family fortune, or just
someone who liked
to dress well and
gladden the eyes of
his fellow-men, when
he took out a paper-
bag, selected a nut,
tossed it high into
the air, opened his
mouth and caught
the nut as it came
down. Faultless, like
the rest of him! And
he did it again, and
again. He could have
been pardoned for
throwing one into
my open mouth as
I stood and watched
him, but his manners
were perfect, and he
walked on without
comment.
“William Harleon”: In ’47 I had a
contract to pull down several of the Air
Force buildings on the Liberator station
Corunna, near Marble Bar (W.A.).
One °f the buildings had' been the
officers , mess Above , he slide to the
bar was an oil-painting of some ants
. f , A ~, ,
looking particularly busy Asc oil below
bore the stat,on „ motto Taurus
Excreta. Fathei Biyan, then mown
throughout the North as The Flying
Parson, ’ had been padre to the Air Force
during the war ; he happened to land
on the strip while I was there, and I
asked him the meaning of the painting
and the scroll. He told me the picture
was there to remind pilots not to talk
or brag on their return from missions,
Should one of them begin to do so, the
forefingers of his listeners would be
waggled above their heads, like the
antennas of ants; whereby hangs this
tale:
It appears that a Digger short of cash
approached a Yank for a pound. He
praised the Yanks excessively. The Yank
listened for a while, then interrupted,
saying: “Digger, in mah country there are
prairies ; and on these prairies there were
millions and millions of bison—guess you d
call t h em bahfaloe. And on these prairies
there were all kinds of ants — big fellers,
little fellers, and brown and black. Waal,
there were a , ot of thcse little black ants
pushing a round black thing up a little
hill; but every time they got it near th’
tahp, there was a big black ant who’d wave
his antennte, and they’d let th’ round thing
roll back. Then they’d try again — same
thing: the big feller’d wave his antennae
and ltd roll back. A little brown ant stood
watching this for a lahng time. He went
to one of the little black fellers: “Why
f y«m always stop pushing when th’ big
feller up there waves his antennae? What
does j t mean?” The Yank stood musing.
At last the Digger asked : “Well, what did
* mean? ” “Digger, when that big black
ant waved his anten nae like this”—the Yank
waggled his fingers above his head — “it
meant: starp rolling that bull . . . Here’s
youl pahnd ' Diggcr ”


POLITICAL POINTS
Reversing his story of a week or so
ago, Cahill told the Six-hour Day com-
mittee that he would bring in equal-pay
and extended leave “before the end of
the year.” In the next breath he told
them that Labor would win the Federal
election. His audience cheered both
remarks —and went home wondering what
to believe.
• •
Russia has resumed nuclear-weapon
tests, six months after their “suspension.”
The announcement of “suspension” last
March was well timed. Russia had just
finished a series of tests and knew quite
well that Britain and America had a new
series planned and were not likely to
take up Moscow’s offer until these were
completed. Now that the.two countries
are ready to talk turkey Khrushchev will
probably explain piously that he set the
good example, but since the Western
Powers were not willing to follow it he
has been forced to resume his tests.
The six months’ gap between his last
series and this one is no more than
Britain and America have sometimes had
between theirs without making propa-
ganda capital out of it. Mr. K.’s scien-
tists have been occupied in evaluating the
results of his last tests ; in reality they
have lost no time at all through the
so-called suspension.
* ©
After R. C. Wheeler, Liberal M.H.R.
for Mitchell, had raised the question in
Canberra, G. Cox, Liberal M.L.A. for
Vaucluse, asked Premier Cahill whether
it was correct that Government premises
in Sussex Street, Sydney, with a V.-G.
value of £40,000 and an annual rental
value of £2OOO were leased to the Com-
munist-controlled W.W.F. at £1 a year.
Cahill said the lease had been first granted
by the Holman Government in 1916 and
had been renewed at 10-yearly intervals
since 1927. The condition had been that
the premises were to be used as a reading-
room, but when the lease came up for
renewal last year it was apparent that the
building was being used partly for office
and caretaker space. A charge of £2 10s.
a week was now being made for this
space ; the rate of £1 a year still applied
to the recreational part of the building.
Cahill made much of the fact that the
Government which renewed the lease in
1937 “was not a Labor Government.”
There is a vast difference between being
kind to the W.W.F. in 1937 when the
country was still emerging from the
depression and giving them a virtually
rent-free depot for the dissemination of
Communist propaganda in 1958.
The union the Holman and Stevens
Governments assisted had no property
worth speaking of. Today’s Red W.W.F.
owns a valuable office-building in Phillip
Street, appropriately named Unity Flouse.
• •
Tenants of Unity House don’t get their
space on the £2 lOs.-a-week on the 3000-
sq.-ft. basis. Some of them have
told the press that they are subject to all
the abuses which are supposedly
anathema to both Communists and
A.L.P. One is alleged to have said that
he paid £l5OO key-money (“premium”)
for his 800 sq.-ft., plus £64 10s. a month.
• 9
Ward asked the P.M.G. for details of
M.P.s who had appeared on TV. David-
son supplied a list. Evatt topped it with
eight appearances extending over 3 hours
"Anything good in the papers today, Joe?"
35 minutes. Menzies was runner-up with
seven appearances, 2 hours 36 minutes.
Eddie’s own time on TV has been very
short, but his party wishes it had been,
shorter.
• •
Red China has announced a week’s
suspension of the bombardment of
Quemoy “for humanitarian reasons” to
enable supplies to be taken to the island.
The logic of this is hard to follow. A
large proportion of the shells fired in the
last month have had the express purpose
of preventing supplies from reaching
Quemoy.
A couple of days before the announce-
ment a Chinese newspaper in Singapore
forecast its terms fairly accurately and
said the move was motivated by Com-
munist concern at the success of the U.S.
Sidewinder missiles fired from Nationalist
planes. Peking has also asked for direct
talks with Formosa with a view to
settling the offshore-islands dispute. This
was also forecast.
• •
In the June quarter 19,384 houses and
flats were completed, compared with
17,627 in the March quarter. This
brought the figure for the financial year
1957-58 to 74,585 —an improvement of
9 per cent, on the previous year. New
houses begun in the June quarter totalled
19,493, the highest June figure for several
years.
• «
From Canberra:
Members from both sides of Parliament have
misgivings at the apparent indifferent attitude
of party leaders towards those retiring from
public life because of ill-health.
In pre-election platitudes last week, neither
the Prime Minister, the Leader of the
Opposition, nor the Acting-Leader of the
Country party (Mr. Davidson) made any men-
tion of those members who are not contesting
the elections. Those concerned are not non-
entities, either; they include Sir Arthur Fadden
and other senior members.
The silence of the three Leaders is taken
by a lot of members to mean they don’t give
a tinker’s cuss about their departing colleagues.
Menzies paid a handsome tribute to Sir
Arthur Fadden at a private party of Govern-
ment members some weeks ago, but has since
made no public mention of the Treasurer’s
retirement.
Others who are not seeking re-election because
of ill-health include Brand (C.P., Q.), Watkins
and James (Labor, N.S.W.), Holt (Labor, Vic.),
Bruce (Lab., Q.) and three Labor Senators —•
Critchley (Vic.), Fraser (Vic.) and Harris
(W.A.).
The Minister for Defence, Sir Philip Mcßride,
is not seeking re-election for personal reasons,
while others are not standing again because
they didn’t gain preselection—in other words,
they weren’t asked. These include Senator
Grant (Lab., N.S.W.), Senator Ryan (Lab.,
S.A.) and Messrs. Morgan (N.S.W.) and
Chambers (S.A.), both Labor men. Vic John-
son (Labor, W.A.) announced his intention to
stand down many months ago; he wasn’t
expected to gain preselection anyway.
Of the 10 members not recontesting the elec-
tion only three were on hand to see the end
on Thursday morning—Watkins, Brand and
Mcßride.


In an end-of-term and pre-election
pep-talk Menzies warned Federal Libs,
against becoming complacent and regard-
ing the election as already won. He
said the Government had “one continu-
ous disadvantage”—it had been in office
nine years and hadMvon four consecutive
elections. The public might feel it was
time to “give someone else a go.”
Menzies said his Government’s policy
was not going to be changed because
of any sudden pressure in the next month
or. two. Labor had thought-up a new
bill of goods for each of four elections,
but had so far been saved from having
to perform any of its promises. It was
obviously going to make further promises
involving possibly £lOO-200 million, but
the Government did not intend to com-
pete with it in promises. It would
continue with its programme as outlined
in the Budget; the state of the economy
automatically made election - bribes
irresponsible.
Menzies told Ministers and members
not to relax; “all must get out and
fight.”
• •
Gerald Patterson, former JDavis Cup
player and now boss of A. G. Spaldings,
is the latest Australian to come back
from America with a big dollar-catch.
Empire Trust Co., of New York, a 250-
million-dollar concern which he has
represented in Australia for some years,
will very shortly launch a £2-million
subsidiary for investment and .develop-
ment in mineral resources, with a possi-
bility of a spot of oil-prospecting, too.
9 •
Dr. Dickson, medical secretary of the
Victorian 8.M.A., has been telling local
Liberals that £6-million-a-year isn’t a
big enough contribution from Canberra
to health-insurance. Half of it goes in
paying g.-p.’s bills, and the other half
doesn’t go all the way in paying for all
the other services, including anaesthesia,
pathology, radiology and the rest. The
trouble about medicine is that there are
never enough doctors, and never enough
money to pay ’em.
• •
Evatt’s urgency motion on U.S. lead
and zinc restrictions, which was in-
tended to rattle the Government in the
final week of the Parliament, turned out
to be a very damp squib. At times it
was hard to make out whether the main
concern of the Doc. and his cohorts was
for the plight of the mining industry or
for trade with Red China.
Truth was that the Opposition eagerly
seized what looked like a good stick to
beat the Government with, but when
they got down to cases they found it
wasn’t so good after all. The pretence
of believing that Trade Minister McEwen
had been caught napping by the restric-
tions was easily disposed of, and Opposi-
tion speakers then had to fall back on
advocating a search for new markets —
and they could think of only one —China.
It was rather incongruous, as the P.M.
remarked, that the A.L.P., which a few
months ago violently opposed the trade-
treaty with Japan, should now berate
the Government for not seeking trade
with China.
No doubt lead and zinc will be flung
around the hustings during the next six
weeks, but no Government member is
likely to be bruised much.
• ®
Under a decision adopted by the
Anglican Synod, vicars in the Melbourne
diocese will get an additional £250 a
year, bringing their stipends to £lOOO.
They have also the use of vicarages,
travelling and other allowances and the
fees incidental to their offices, but it
hardly brings them up to professional
salaries ; and, with inflation, it can be
said that “They earneth the wages
(Haggai 1:6) to put into a bag with
holes.”
• •
The Sydney daily press every now and
then runs a gibe against Pat Morton —as
it did earlier against Murray Robson and
Vernon Treatt —because he doesn’t
measure-up to their conception of a great
fighting leader for the N. S. Wales Libs.
How can he? The press denounces a
“shocking scandal” with news-stories,
editorials and letters from mothers-of-
-10 ; then sends a reporter round to the
Opposition-leader to ask, “Do you, too,
denounce this shocking scandal?” If he
doesn’t he’s labelled weak and cold-
footed. If he does the paper prints
“Scandal Shocking Says Morton,” thereby
giving Government members the chance
of calling him a stooge for the press.
In the eyes of the makers of press-
policy in Sydney a great fighting Liberal
leader is a Charlie McCarthy who can
be relied on to shout “Down with
tyranny,” “Go to the country,” or
“Appoint a royal commission” every time
Granny “Herald” or Step-sister “Sun”
mumbles a mouthful of marbles.
• •
In the course of the lead-zinc debate
the Doc. advocated diplomatic recogni-
tion of Communist China. With Red
guns pumping shells into Quemoy and
Matsu it would have been hard to pick a
less auspicious moment for such action,
but that didn’t seem to worry the one-
time president of U.N.O.
e •
Bolte, the only Premier to oppose the
issue of special bonds for the small
investor because they may interfere
with savings-bank deposits and semi-
Government raisings, explains that his
objection is to their being continuous ;
he does not object to them at loan-
campaign times.
His threat to introduce special State
loans for small investors if Victorian
semi-Government raisings are much
affected could boomerang, if carried out.
The major part of the States’ loan-funds
are derived from Federal raisings, and
if Victoria raises its own there will, no
doubt, be correspondingly less from
Canberra.
The new small loans may encourage
a new type of investor, and, if the field
Is left to Canberra, they may be the
means of making more finance available
for all.
• •
Bland’s Parliamentary Public Accounts
Committee still isn’t satisfied with the
way the Department of the Interior is
controlling the use of Commonwealth
cars. Its report for the last financial
year says the department has shown a
lack of initiative and a reluctance to
correct the position after criticism by
the committee and the Auditor-General.
The department apparently takes the
view that its responsibility ceases when
it supplies a car and receives an
authorisation. The committee considers
that it should also satisfy itself that the
transport is being used economically.
Cabinet apparently thinks so, too. It
cut the vote for “transport for other
departments” this year from £lOO,OOO to
£82,900 and decided that in future indi-
vidual departments will be charged for
the cost of the transport they use.
• •
“Doynest”: Like Canberra, Shepparton
(Vic.) boasts an Olympic swimming-pool
(B. 24/9/’5B) —but Australian taxpayers
didn’t have to find £200,000 for it.
Voluntary workers operated concrete-
mixers to build it; others carted 2500
tons of sand from the Broken River, 13
miles away, to make a beach 440 ft. long
and 30ft. wide along the lake-front, where
the swimming-pool replaces what
was once a swamp. Shepparton depends
on the public spirit of its citizens, not
upon public hand-outs, for its civic
progress.
• o
Dennis Hotels Pty., Ltd., a Melbourne
food-and-drink company which under-
takes large-scale catering, has challenged
the Victorian Government’s right to
charge licence-fees. (Last year these
reached £3 million, of which more than
£2.5 million went into consolidated
revenue.) The company claims the im-
position of licence-fees contravenes
Section 90 of the Constitution, which gives
the Commonwealth the sole right to
collect excise. The case will be one in
which all Australian publicans and
caterers will be interested. And all State
Treasurers.
• •
Dr. Evatt will open Labor’s campaign
in Sydney Town Hall on Wednesday,
October 15, and will speak at Cessnock
in his new Hunter electorate the follow-
ing day. Thence to Brisbane, Hobart,
Melbourne, Perth, Sydney and Adelaide
in that order. The Adelaide meeting
is timed for October 28, so Evatt will
have spoken in every Australian capital
(Sydney twice) before Menzies delivers
his policy speech in Melbourne on
October 29. The Doc. is staking his
hopes on a long, gruelling campaign,
working (he hopes) to a triumphant
crescendo. Menzies apparently prefers it
to be short and sweet.


PERSONAL ITEM
First to be held in Australia, meetings
of senior service psychologists of the
British Commonwealth started in Mel-
bourne on September 29 and end on
October 9, with Colonel E. F. Campbell,
Army Director of Psychology, leading
the Australian delegation. W. A. S.
Butement, Chief Scientist of the Depart-
ment of Supply, gave the opening
address.
• •
Planning to leave Sydney on October
10 for a visit to Westralia, where he was
born 51 years ago, Hal Missingham,
Director of the National Art Gallery of
N.S.W., was apprenticed at 14 as a
process-engraver and studied drawing at
Perth under J. W. R. Linton.
At 19, when his apprenticeship was
finished, he worked his passage to Europe
as hospital-steward to a lunatic seaman
being repatriated to England (fair enough
as a pipe-opener for any youngster).
Study followed, first at Julian’s Academy
in Paris and then at the London County
Council Central School of Arts and
Crafts (later he won a scholarship and
became an assistant-instructor there),
varied by a trip to Canada and a return-
voyage to London as deckhand in a
North Atlantic cattle-boat. These are the
ingredients of a wide education which
has made Missingham (sketched here by
a friend of long standing) an authority
ART
not only on art but on life. That’s wit-
nessed by the list of his writings and
achievements and by the British, French
and Italian decorations he’s been
awarded.
“Joanne”: Newcastle (N.S.W.) seems
to have some claim to a record for
veteran fire-brigade volunteers. F.
Worland, captain of Stockton Fire
Brigade, has 53 years’ service as a volun-
teer, and G. Anderson, captain of New
Lambton, equals this. The other night
Fred Smith, captain of Lambton brigade
(50 years’ service), was honored with a
presentation. Records show other fire-
men in the district with half-a-century
of service—W. G. Gordon and A. Owen
(Tighes Hili), R. Cairns (Hamilton) and
W. Murray (Stockton).
• •
Appointed chairman of the trustees of
Westralia’s Wheat Pool, W. J. Russell
succeeds Sir John Smith Teasdale (B.
27/8/’5B). Serving with the 10th Light
Horse, Russell was wounded on Gallipoli;
after the war he became a successful
businessman in Perth, with wheatfarming
interests at Kulin. In 1932 he was
elected to the Growers’ Council of the
Wheat Pool and later became a trustee
and deputy-chairman. First general-
treasurer of the Farmers’ Union, past-
president of the Royal Agricultural
Society of Westralia (still a councillor)
and a member of the central advisory
committee of the C.5.1.R.0., he’s at
present interested in developing a large
property at Esperance.
• •»
“5 G.R.”: Australia's oldest V.C.s
known to be still alive are Jim Rogers,
of Melbourne, and Guy Wylly, who
lives at Camberley, Surrey (Eng.). Rogers
is 83 and Wylly, Tasmanian-born, is 78.
Both won the V.C. in South Africa.
• *
Retired from the position of Common-
wealth Pearling Officer-in-charge, E. de B.
Norman graduated from the best of
universities for that job—one of his
father’s luggers operating in the West.
He’s had a lifetime in pearling or in
helping pearling, particularly through and
since World War 11. As Commonwealth
pearling-officer since 1947 he's travelled
thousands of miles to advise on methods,
equipment and suchlike at points as
widely separated as Onslow, Broome,
Darwin, Cairns and Thursday Island.
Just about everybody who has pearled
round those spots knows Ted Norman.
New Commonwealth pearling-officer
is Captain Fred Wells, until recently
harbormaster at Darwin.
• •
Resigning the chairmanship of the
Westralian Turf Club, which he’s held
since 1948, Sir Langlois Lefroy will,
among other activities, continue his Red
Cross chairmanship. A rangy six-footer
who couldn’t be anything but a horse-
man, he belongs to an old Westralian
pastoralist family, and is a former presi-
dent of the W.A. Pastoralists’ Associa-
tion. He was a captain with the Royal
Engineers, 8.E.F., in the Kaiser’s War.
Pictured here, Tom Johnston, of
Launceston (Tas.), has ample interests to
keep him busy apart from his insurance
and stockbroking. Specially keen on all
things agricultural, he’s president of the
National Agricultural and Pastoral
Society of Tasmania (which is holding
STOCKBROKING
its 83 rd Launceston Show this year),
and is vice-president of the Tasmanian
Show Council. Also company director,
chairman of the Launceston Stock
Exchange, life-member and committee-
man of the Tasmanian Turf Club, and
office-bearer in more than a dozen other
concerns.
• •
In the list of nine leading Australian
agricultural scientists elected to Fellow-
ships of the Australian Institute of
Agricultural Science is the name of A. F.
Bell, former Under-Secretary to the
Department of Stock and Agriculture in
Queensland ; he, however, passed on a
few months ago. The others are: Dr.
A. R. Callaghan, Director of Agricul-
ture in S.A.; Dr. A. E. Cornish, chief
of the mathematical-statistics division of
the C.5.1.R.0.; J. G. Crawford, secretary
of the Department of Trade ; Dr. J. G.
Davies, associate-chief of the division of
plant-industry, C.5.1.R.0.; Professor
J. A. Prescott, former director of the
Waite Institute ; Sir lan Clunies Ross,
chairman of the C.5.1.R.0.; Professor
E. J. Underwood, Professor of Agricul-
ture at the Westralian University ; and
Sir Samuel Wadham, formerly Professor
of Agriculture at Melbourne University.
• •
Back from a four-months tour of
Europe, which included the International
Cancer Congress in London, Westralian
University’s first Professor of Pathology,
Rolf Eduard ten Seldam, considers that
the new linear accelerator to be installed
at the W.A. University will do much to
help cancer-research. He commends, too,
the value to be got from investigation
into cancer among primitive peoples like
our own aborigines and the natives of
New Guinea. Professor ten Seldam has
had much experience of comparative


research among people living in primitive
conditions. Since graduating from the
Leyden Medical School in 1932 he has
been a pathologist in Dutch hospitals,
an officer of the Royal Netherlands East
Indies Army Reserve, and director of
the N.E.I. Cancer Institute at Bandoeng,
Indonesia. Interned by the Japanese, he
was mentioned in dispatches for his work
in p.-0.-w. camps in Java and Sumatra.
From 1947 to 1952 he was director of
pathology of the Roman Catholic hospi-
tals in Eindhoven, Holland, then he was
reader and later senior lecturer in
pathology at Sydney University and an
executive officer of the research-
committee of the N.S.W. Cancer Council.
In 1955 he became hon. sec. of the
pathology section of the N.S.W. branch
oi the 8.M.A., taking-up his Westralian
appointment in 1956.
• •
“Cambrian” on a great geologist:
During his life of nearly 83 years Walter
George Woolnough deservedly gained high
academic honors (starting, in 1904, with the
first doctorate of science awarded by Sydney
University); but the title he cherished most
was that of field-geologist. Mostly he worked
on foot, humping his bluey about Australia,
with side-trips to New Guinea and Fiji. His
teacher —and probably the biggest influence on
his life—was Edgeworth David, and the friend-
ship and respect of these two great men were
mutual.
Although, like all dedicated geologists, Wool-
nough verified details on the ground, he was
the first to introduce to Australia the value of
aerial reconnaissance and was always ready to
adopt any means whereby time spent on geolo-
gical surveys could be shortened. He had
been correctly described as having possessed
“a wide and deep knowledge of Australian
field-geology, second to that of no living
person.”
Dr. Woolnough’s retirement from the post
of geological adviser to the Commonwealth in
1941 is a striking illustration of the folly of
removing a public servant from office on the
sole grounds of statutory age. Here was a
scientist with an outstanding academic back-
ground, an unsurpassed field-knowledge of
Australia and the adjacent territories and a first-
hand knowledge of oilfields overseas. Physically,
he was in far better condition than many of
his colleagues junior to him in age and experi-
ence. Yet, as he himself put it without bitter-
ness: “Geology deserted me at the statutory age
of sixty-five.”
After his retirement he travelled round mili-
tary camps, at his own expense, teaching
servicemen how, when lost, to fix their position
astronomically with simple and easily-
constructed instruments. In this he was
probably the means of saving many lives.
• 0
Frank Yeates, who now takes over
the presidency of the Perth Chamber of
Commerce, is already a vice-president
of the Royal Automobile Club, a trustee
of the Perth Art Gallery and Museum,
member of the Boy Scouts’ Association
State Executive, member of the Univer-
sity Women’s College Council, and a
past-president of Perth Rotary. His aim
in the new job is to expand the export
of Australian products and raw materials.
0 0
Younger—and even middle-aged—
Melbourne executives chorused “Hear,
hear!” when Heaton Clark gave up the
chairmanship of Rocla Pipes, Ltd., re-
cently “because boards should not be
dominated by fellows in their seventies.”
He’s still a little short of 70 himself.
One of the best known of Victorian
engineers, for many years with the
Metropolitan Gas Co. and afterwards
the Gas and Fuel Corporation, he began
Rocla, with a partner, in 1920, sub-
scribing the first few hundred pounds.
He now plans for himself a pleasant life
of retirement, trout-fishing and gardening.
• •
Now on his way, via London, to a
concert-tour of Europe, during which he
will be guest-conductor of orchestras in
Moscow, Prague, Zagreb, Budapest and
Bucharest, Sir Bernard Heinzs (sketched
herewith) won’t have to depend on arm-
waving or pidgin to make himself under-
stood during rehearsals —he speaks Ger-
man and French, either of which is a
secondary language in Eastern Europe.
Heinze is no stranger to those parts
—he was conducting up and down
Europe in his late twenties, after having
passed through the R.C.M. and the
expert hands of Vincent D’lndy in Paris
and Willy Hess in Berlin. Back in Mel-
bourne he joined the staff of the Uni-
versity Conservatorium, of which he was
Ormond Professor till his appointment
last year as director of the Sydney Con.
Born at Shepparton (Vic.), Heinze was
fiddling in the Lyric Orchestra at
Ballarat as a 10-year-old ; at 15 he was
with the Quinlan Opera Co., and after
that he had five years’ service as an
officer with the Royal Artillery in War
I before founding the Melbourne String
Quartet, which he led for mapy years.
MUSIC
In 1924 he started the Children’s Con-
certs, which grew into the present A.B.C.
Youth Concerts.
Popular with both orchestras and
public, Sir Bernard has an easy geniality
and approachableness off the podium,
and on it a vital energy. And, though
he’s personally modest about it, the im-
pact he’s been making on Australia’s
musical development for these past 35
years is out on its own.
Here on a Unesco lecture-tour, Paul
Rotha, maker, historian, lecturer and
writer in the film-game. Since 1928,
when as art-director with a British studio
he criticised set-designs (and was fired
for it), he has been making fine films, his
work on documentaries especially note-
worthy. London-born, son of a doctor,
he’s author of the standard reference-
work on the history of the cinema. His
was the first documentary to be shown
on TV, 22 years ago, and he’s won
enough awards and medals as producer,
director, script-writer, etc., to weigh
down a camel.
• o
“Uramao”: The Lambeth Conference
drew to England the whole of N.Z.’s
hierarchy, and also another Enzedder,
Phillip Carrington, Archbishop of
Quebec, brother of Professor Charles
Carrington, and son of the late Dean
Carrington, of Christchurch (N.Z.).
Archbishop and Professor (he is at the
Royal Institute of International Affairs)
met at a hotel near Lambeth Palace;
during this reunion a glass of beer was
upset over the Archbishop’s episcopal
apron, and the two distinguished
Enzedders paraded up and down the
street swinging the episcopal apron to
dry it out before the Archbish. returned
to the august company.
• - •
Into the Silence:
In Brisbane, at 86, George Thomas Bennett,
for 50 years a real-estate agent; head of the
firm of G. T. Bennett and Co., churchman,
sportsman, and head of a distinguished family.
In Perth, at 88, Thomas O. Bryant, Congrega-
tional minister, who was born in Victoria and
moved West in 1920. In Westralia he served
his Church at Subiaco, Claremont, Armadale
and Belmont—at Belmont he held services in
an Army tent while raising funds for a
permanent building.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 85, E. R. J. Vance,
well known early in the century in music,
cricket and insurance. Born in Auckland, he
became secretary of the Wellington Operatic
Society in the days of Marie Ney (then Marie
Fix), V. (now Sir Vincent) Meredith, Tony
Wood, Helen Gardner, Bathie Stewart, Isabel
Wilford (Sir Tom’s daughter) and others.
In Surrey (Eng.), Dr. Marie Stopes, birth-
control campaigner and author of many books
on this and allied subjects.
In Brisbane, at 91, Montague Bloom, veteran
entertainer, whose concert-parties gave 3000 per-
formances in 30 years at institutions such as
the General Hospital, Mental Hospital and
Brisbane Jail. During War I he organised
Diggers’ concerts. “Monty” (he described him-
self as “a bit of a comic”) took his first
concert-party to the former aged people’s settle-
ment at Dunwich in 1888.
At Forster (N.S.W.), at 65, Alf (“Wakka”)
Walker, in his time one of the best Australian
Rugby Union half-backs.
In Sydney, at 48, after being involved in a
race-smash at Menangle, Arch Egan, well-
known trotting-driver.
In Sydney, at 93, Arthur Bayldoh, poet, story-
writer and critic. Born at Leeds (Eng.), he had
a varied and adventurous life —in turn lighter-
owner, tea-merchant, traveller, lecturer, private
sec., fancy backstroke swimmer, canvasser and
ad.-writer. His most notable publications were
Apollo in Australia and Bush Verses.
At Hobart, Miss Rymer J. Maxwell, last
member of an old family of 15. Born at
Battery Point, Hobart Town, she was a one-
time tennis-champion.
At Beverley (W.A.), at 88, Fred Rogers, oldest
district J.P. and first in the district to own a
motor-car. An expert bushman, he guided
many leading Westralians on hunting-trips,
among them two Governors, Sir Francis
Newdegate and Sir James Mitchell.


ABORIGINALITIES
WHENCE CAME OUR BUFFALOES?
By “THE RUMINANT”
npoDAY it seems to be accepted that the
Northern Territory buffaloes are the
descendants of buffs, brought by Asiatics
in the 1880’s, but there was current in
the Territory 40 years ago another, and
much more likely, explanation of their
presence.
According to this account (which varies
a little in detail), when Sir George
Bremer held his little fort at Port
Essingtcn a contract to supply buffaloes
for meat for his Redcoats was let to
some Javanese-Dutch interests, and a dis-
pute arose over payments at a time
when a number of Dutch sailing-ships
had arrived loaded with buffaloes.
Failing to reach any agreement, the
skippers of the ships anchored close in,
and at low tide turned the whole ship-
ment overboard to swim ashore. The
number of vessels said to have been
involved varies from three to seven.
Mention of this account was made
either in the old “Lone Hand” or in
the “Abo.” columns of The Bulletin
about 50 years back.
The generally accepted account —
which has the buffaloes as descendants
of strayed draught animals—creates more
mystery than it solves. The Asiatics
(mainly Chinese), apart from those at
the small pearling-station at Palmerston
(now Darwin), did not arrive in the
Territory until the eighties Miller Bros.
brought most, if not all, of them to the
Territory as laborers on the Darwin to
Pme Creek railway. The building of
this line commenced aftei tne discovery
of the Telegraph Lead at Pine Creek
in the late seventies. A small goldfield
had pieviously been worked on the
Blackmore River, near Tumbling Wateis;
but the boom in Territory mining, and
a l Ven i the r As ‘ atlcs ’ and with
them the buffaloes (in this account), can
be definitely placed as beginning after
the find at Pine Creek in, I believe, 1878.
Mining and population extended north-
ward to about Rum Jungle, and east and
westward of the present railway-line to
a distance of about 40 miles,
The buffaloes, then, would have started
to spread from places in that area. It
is incredible that the few strays—and
they would be few that would survive
the attacks of dingoes and abos.—could
have increased to herds of tens of
thousands in the space of 20 to 30 years,
The buffalo reared in captivity is an
extremely docile and slothful beast, and,
as such, nearly all of the few that did
stray would be easy victims of the abos.’
shovel-blade spears, and any calves pro-
duced would be even easier victims of
the wily dingo—as shrewd a hunter as
the abo.
Yet according to this account they had
survived and multiplied to the extent that
by the beginning, or at least the very
early years, of this century a number of
shooters were making good money out
of hides! I recall reading a novel by
A. B. (“Banjo”) Paterson around 1910-12
that was based on the doings and mis-
doings of a party of buffalo-shooters
(the title was An Outback Marriage).
So shooting buffaloes as a business must
have been well established by that time,
As a matter of fact> there were a
number of men engaged in buffalo-
shooting at, or very shortly after, the
beginning of this century. Paddy Cahill
W as established at Oenpelli, nearly 200
miles north-easterly from the supposed
starting-place. Joe Cooper was on, I
th i n k, C oburg Peninsula at the time,
Others were shooting in and around the
country bordering on the mining-fields,
and in this situati on, why the buffalo
s d north . east and east and nofc
n P orth _ west and west to anything like a
sjmilar extept> is as great { m * tery as
his presence in the country at all.
For 50 years and more great herds
have roamed the country between the
Adelaide River and the South and East
Alligators—in fact, far east and south-
east of the latter. Yet they are, and
always have been, very scarce west of
the railway-line.
Fairly reliable reports say that there
is now a considerable herd in the country
from Ambrowarra Gorge south to the
Levin Springs area, but this is no more
than 30 to 50 miles west of Pine Creek
This in itself indicates that the buffalo
is only now beginning to spread - west-
ward in considerable numbers.
A couple of years back the writer saw
a herd of about 40 between the Darwin
and Blackmore Rivers, and at odd times
saw wallows and other signs of the buff,
in the. West Arm Cox Peninsula and
Bynoe Harbor country, but through all
that country the buff, is very scarce even
today, though by no means as scarce
as he was 40 years ago. Prospecting
through that part in 1920 I saw no signs
of the buffalo, and both Jack Mitchel-
more (then ’gator-shooting in that part)
and Harry Edwards (at that time work-
ing the Lucy tin-mine) told me that there
were only odd ones anywhere near there.
These odd ones would be old bulls
driven out of herds by the younger ones.
These old solitaries wander many miles
from the country inhabited by the herds
they led when younger, and those in
the area could quite easily have travelled
from the country east of Adelaide River.
All the country westward, and includ-
ing Cox Peninsula right through to the
West Kimberleys, is very similar, and
just as suitable to the buff, as that
traversed going north, east and south-
east. The natural barriers are no greater
—the Daly and Victoria are both ford-
able in a number of places. The Daly
is quite close to the parts the buff, is
supposed to have spread from ; yet they
are not numerous between the railway-
line and that river, and much less so
west of it as far as the Victoria. Also,
the Ord is little farther from their sup-
posed starting-places than Oenpelli, but
the buff, is extremely rare in that
country, if he is there at all.
Travelling at the same rate westward
as they have done in the opposite direc-
tion they should long since have reached
at least the Fitzroy River (West Kim-
berley) country, as old solitary bulls have
been frequently seen between the eastern
border of the Territory and the Cloncurry-
Burketown road near the Gulf. This
indicates that there are sizeable herds
very close to the Queensland border, if
not actually in Queensland, so the buff,
has spread eastward some 600 to 800
miles, or three to four times as far as
he has gone in the opposite direction.
His failure to penetrate towards the
Centre to a like extent is due to the




change in the country that begins to
show just southward of Warlock Ponds.
From about there southward the open
plain-lands of the Barkly Tablelands
come in ; waterholes are scarce, and
those that do exist are not of the type
the buff, favors. The country is dry,
and the buff, is essentially a wet-country
beast. But even in this ■ borderline
country the buff, is at least as numerous
as he is in the much more congenial
country towards the west, and seems to
some extent to have adapted himself to
.the strange conditions.
Here is another mystery: Why has he
so adjusted himself to the unfavorable
conditions rather than change the direc-
tion of his travels into more suitable
country? If we suppose that his starting-
point was the pearling-station at
Palmerston, it certainty gives him 20 to
30 more years to build-up the numbers,
and he would be more likely to stray
from such a place, as the pearling-crews
would be less careful of him than the
Chinese gardeners on the mining-fields.
“He'll be o.k. while We have a drink.”
But in this case it is even more strange
that he did not spread at least as far to
the west as he did to the east. In fact,
spreading from this part the main herds
should be centred in the Finnis River,
Cox Peninsula and Daly River areas —
just where he is, and always has been,
least numerous!
If, on the other hand, we take Port
Essington as his starting-point, and the
time of his arrival as in the 1830’s, he
has had 120 to 130 years in which
to build-up the tens of thousands that,
in spite of over 50 years of almost con-
tinuous shooting, exist today.
Further: three, five or seven shiploads
would provide 100 to 200 times the
nucleus that can be allowed in the
escaped-draught-animal story. Again,
arriving as a very considerable herd the
buffs, would be much less open to attacks
by either dingo or the abo. Both would
find it much more difficult to separate
a kill from a herd than to pick-off an
already isolated beast, young or old.
Accepting this story, the mystery of
the curious way in which the buff, spread
is explained. Travelling south-east and
east his progress would be subject only
to his own inclinations, and he would
be starting much nearer the Gulf
country of Queensland, while in his
migration south-west he would just come
up against the meat-hungry miners and
prospectors, who would at least slow-
down his progress in that direction. Later
the shooters operating from eastward of
the railway would tend to drive him
back north-east and south-east, and
would most certainly bar his progress
west.
There were considerable townships at
Pine Creek and similar places by the
late 'eighties, and the demand for any
kind of fresh meat would make a
buffalo’s chance of passing westward very
slim indeed. And buffaloes coming
towards the settled areas after being out
of contact with man for half-a-century
would almost certainly tend to turn back
to the east of their own accord.
All things considered, the story that
puts Port Essington as the buffs./ landing-
place is much more likely to be correct
than any other, while shiploads, as
against odd strays, is at least a reason-
able explanation of the great numbers
that now exist.
With the price of hides at next-to-
nothing today very little shooting is
being done, and according to Jim Lynch,
now shooting in the South Alligator
country, the practice for some years has
been to shoot only grown bulls, which
accounts for the great increase in
numbers over recent years.
“Orang Puteh”: They breed ’em
tough in Tassie. In the potato-country
around Devonport, on the north-west
coast, I watched two sisters at work.
One, aged 90, was digging in the garden,
barefoot. Her sprightly elder, aged 92,
was using a cross-cut on some wood.
* * * *
“Nor-west”: Sixty years ago Aberdeen
fish-canners, interested in reports of the
abundance of fish- along Westralia’s
northerly coasts, sent out an expert. His
report was unfavorable: plenty of suit-
able fish, large and small, but too much
calcium in solution in the coastal waters
—which meant that fish-bones would
be too hard for successful canning. The
conditions of soft, crumbly bones and
firm flesh are found in the salmon of
our southern coasts, now successfully
canned. Calcium is lime, the foundation
of bone-structure, and how full those
nor’-Westralian waters are of lime may
be seen from the oysters gathered
Shark Bay northward. These are the
real rock-oysters, weighing up to half-a-
pound each, most of it solid crystal-
limestone. This is not the once well-
known Shark Bay pearl-oyster, but the
edible oyster, quite twice as large,, and
equally as well flavored as the famed
Sydney rock-oyster.
m * * *
“Paik” (New Guinea): Regarding
“Justin Thyme’s” lament on the elasticity
of the term “near” (B. 20/8/’5B), the
expressions used in pidgin describing
distance are “Close to too much,” “Close
to liklik (little),” “Close to,” and so on
through “Longway liklik” to “Longway
more yet.” On one trip my carriers
assured me our destination was “Close
to too much”—and we spent two full
days getting there! And the converse
has happened, too, though much less
frequently. This vagueness in pidgin
when measuring time, distance and quan-
tity can be very misleading, but to the
native mind, of course, precise definition
is seldom necessary.
* * * *
“Sebak”: In view of the limited
varieties of timber suitable for bow-
making, and the exacting seasoning
required (B. 17/9/’5B), is it really essen-
tial to use wood for the job? Spring-
steel can be made to do what could
never be expected from timber —or isn’t
it considered cricket to thus modernise
an ancient weapon? Cricket or not, I
fancy a glowing testimonial could be
procured from at least one unexpected
source. Alfred A. Vogel, Swedish
naturalist and author of Papuans and
Pygmies, took with him some bows made
of Swedish steel when he accepted the
invitation to join the Halstrom expedi-
tion in search of the legendary white
bird-of-paradise. The bird wasn’t found,
but the bows were eagerly accepted by
the pygmies in whose territory the search
had been conducted. And I’d say the
little blokes would be pretty fair judges
of a bow.


T anky, the town drunk, was nearly
driving Bung crazy, till, inspiration
coming, he scribbled a note, put it in an
envelope and told Lanky to take it to the
bottom hotel and deliver it only to the
manager. Lanky couldn’t get out of the
door fast enough. The note read: “We’ve
raffled this galah and you’ve won him.” —
“0.D.8.”
* * * *
“G’roper”: For years the W.A.
Forestry Department was perturbed over
the ravages made by the black cockatoo ;
flocks of them would practically strip
pine-plantations of near-ripe cones,
wanted for seed. The birds, after tearing
off a cone, would take a few nibbles,
drop it, and go on to the next, until the
ground would be strewn with partly-
destroyed cones. Recent experiments,
however, have put the supposed depreda-
tions in a new light. Salvaged seeds,
tested, have been found to retain a
fertility—engendered, apparently, by their
being partly buried in pine-needles —on
a par with seeds from cones ripened on
the tree. So Cocky is not only per-
mitted to carry on his ravages undis-
turbed, but even encouraged. He saves
forestry-men the arduous job of cone-
gathering from tall ladders. He has, in
fact, become a voluntary unpaid worker
for the State.
4= 4= * *
“Margaret Lorraine”: “L.E.W.’s”
statement (B. 3/9/’5B) that all tortoise-
shell cats are female reminds me of two
dear old ladies telling me about their
dozen cats: “There’s Goldie, she’s
tortoiseshell, and Fluffie, she’s half-
Persian ..” Appalled by the thought
of 12 females, I asked, “But aren't you
driven mad by visiting tom-cats?” “Oh,
not since we’ve had Tibbie. She chases
them all away.” Further tales of
unfeminine behavior had me marvelling,
till my puzzled expression drew the
explanation: “They’re all de-sexed males,
but we always call them she.” After that
I wasn’t surprised to hear about “Sally,
the dog next-door. He’s just had pups,”
and still wish I’d been able to introduce
a bull into the conversation. Would
they, I wonder, have called “her” a
gentleman cow?
* * * *
“Burra Mallim”: It would be regarded
as nautical sacrilege to put paint on such
teak fittings as ships’-rails (B. 17/9/’5B).
In most ships the brightwork is the mate’s
pride, and is painstakingly sand-and-
canvassed, sandpapered, treated with raw
linseed-oil, sometimes mixed with a little
red-lead to give a blood-colored tint,
then coated with marine copal-varnish
of a temperature and viscosity to give a
high gloss. In passenger-ships, particu- .
larly those in tropical trades, the teak
fittings are burnished regularly with sand
and canvas until they literally sparkle.
For tiddly jobs Ningpo varnish is used
to give a glasslike finish, but has to be
applied to the prepared surfaces on a
dull, cloudy day and never in direct
sunlight, and is best done by Chinese.
Deck-planking used to be holystoned to
a gleaming whiteness, but mechanical
scrubbers using prepared cleansers have
supplanted the “prayer books”; in cargo-
ships on dirty trades, where wooden
decks don’t get the required care, they
are given the Scandinavian treatment of
Stockholm tar and raw linseed-oil —an
excellent timber-preservative. But paint-
ing teak, shades of the old Cape
Horners!
* * * *
“Pat N.”: Until she disappeared a few
weeks ago a cat at Rockingham (W.A.)
Golf Club had fair claim to the
title of Australia’s only four-legged
feline golf-enthusiast. When a new club-
house was opened last February and field-
mice invaded it, a two-month-old tabby
kitten was put on the job. When she
“This fellow's the most shocking speller .”
ran out of mice Myrtle decided on golf
as an alternative pastime. Graduating
from the ninth green, where she com-
menced by pouncing on balls as they
landed, she reached the stage of doing
one or more complete rounds every day,
irrespective of weather, and gradually
complied faithfully with golf-etiquette.
She would sit quietly behind players
while they made their shots until they
reached the approach-stage at the 18th
hole, where she would run on ahead
and squat behind the pin. Only on a
few occasions did Myrtle attempt to
touch the ball, though in the champion-
ship qualifying-round she did pat into
the cup one that was passing the hole.
Fortunately the player wasn't in the race,
otherwise there might have been an
appeal to St. Andrews.
* * * *
“Kesem”: Touching on the noted
Windeyer legal family, it was a Windeyer
who in 1847 was the first to cross by
wheeled vehicle the Great Dividing Range
in s.-w. Queensland where it separates
the Dawson from the Condamine river-
systems. Tom Archer, returning from
his exploring trip to the Fitzroy Downs,
came upon the enterprising young man
at the farthest point west to which any-
one had ventured with stock. Archer
and co. followed his wheel-tracks back
to the Condamine country. That
Windeyer met a tragic end. On old
Juandah station, while answering a call
to protect property from the savage
Dawson blacks, he shot himself in the
thigh mounting his horse. He lingered
for nearly a year with inexpert attention
—there were no doctors in those parts.
Windeyer Plain keeps his memory green.
* * * *
“Zake”: The echidna has justifiably
earned the reputation of being an even
better underground engineer Ilian leading
political exponents of the art; all the
same, I’d risk a wad on the yabbie as
against the spiny bloke. When heavy
winter rains flood to the grass-roots Yab
pitches camp in his attic and sometimes
invites the attention of the ever-hungry
blue-crane. As the warmer days come
and the water recedes, and in drought-
time keeps, on receding, the creek-bank
puncturer will follow it down. He’s been
known to go down 30ft. in midsummer.
I* * * ♦
“Traveller”: few miles from
Townsville (Q.), is the junction of the
line running down to Swifts’ Alligator
Creek meatworks. The works were
formerly owned by the North Queensland
Meat Export Co., usually shortened to
NQME. After Swifts became the
operators the works were connected to
the main line by rail, and it was neces-
sary to have a name for the siding. And
so, by simply cutting out the tail of the
Q and using the letters of the original
company, the.name of Nome was born.


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. URQUHART, M. D. PASSMORE, K. W. A. BRIDGES
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
25 O’COXNKLI STREET
SYDNEY
Telephone
BAY 8171 (.3 lines)
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECELEX." Sydney
Business, Robbery, Etc.
THE CEMENT INDUSTRY
'T'he usual uninformative
accounts of Kandos
Cement, Ltd., and Australian
Cement, Ltd., came to hand
recently and show profits
minutely higher than in the
previous year, and equal to
about 11 p.c. on capital. Divi-
dends to the shareholding
public in each case have been
maintained at 10 p.c.
But both Kandos and Aus-
tralian Cement are holding-cos.
which do not reveal the figures
of their jointly (and equally)
owned operating co., Australian
Portland Cement Pty., so that
their published figures are no
real indication as to how their
manufacturing activities are
faring financially.
Southern Portland Cement,
Ltd., in which Howard Smith
is a large shareholder, has
shown increased profits for the
year to April 30 last and has
raised its dividend from 9 p.c.
to 10 p.c.
Adelaide Cement has shown
increased profits, as have most
companies in the business.
The cement industry in Aus-
tralia, with the exception of one
or two post-war flotations
(Metropolitan Cement in
N.S.W. being the particularly
awful exception), has been
doing well, and appears likely
to go on doing well with the
growth in population and the
need for capital-works of
various kinds in most parts of
the Commonwealth.
Commenting on the cement
industry, the Department of
Trade, in a survey, says that,
since 1889, when two
plants were established
in Australia (one in Vic-
toria and the other in N.S.W.),
the Portland-cement industry
in this country has undergone
considerable development. It
is now at a stage where it can
supply more than Australia’s
current needs, although there
is still a shortage in Victoria
which is met by imports from
other States.
However, with Australia con-
tinuine to expand commerce
ally and industrially as well as
in the house-building field,
much of this excess capacity
which now exists should be
utilised fairly soon.
The present situation is
reminiscent of pre-war days,
when, for over 20 years, pro-
ductive capacity in Australia
exceeded requirements. In the
rapidly expanding economy
following the end of World
War 11, local industry could
not meet demand, and fairly
heavy imports became neces-
sary. The heaviest import years
were between 1949 and 1955,
but by 1956-57 imports had
fallen to 10,000 tons. Exports
in that year totalled 11,000 tons.
Fourteen Producers
Fourteen plants produce
Portland cement in Australia,
and all but two are Australian-
owned. The plants are:
NEW SOUTH WALES
Australian Portland Cement Pty.,
Ltd., Kandos.
Commonwealth Portland Cement
Co., Ltd., Portland.
Southern Portland Cement Co.,
Ltd., Berrima.
Standard Portland Cement Co.,
Ltd., Charbon.
Metropolitan Portland Cement,
Ltd., Maldon.
VICTORIA
Australian Portland Cement Pty.,
Ltd., Geelong.
Gippsland Cement and Lime Co.
Pty., Ltd., Traralgon.
QUEENSLAND
Queensland Cement and Lime Co.,
Ltd., Darra.
North Australian Cement, Ltd.,
Stuart.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA '
Adelaide Cement Co., Ltd.,
Birkenhead.
South Australian Portland Cement
Co., Ltd., Angaston.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Swan Portland Cement Co., Ltd.,
Rivervale.
Cockburn Cement Pty., Ltd.,
Cockburn.
TASMANIA
Goliath Portland Cement Co.,
Ltd., Railton.
Of these 14 plants, 11 use
rotary kilns and the “wet”
process, while two (Kandos and
Standard) use the “dry” process
in rotary kilns. Gippsland
Cement and Lime Co. Pty. Ltd.,
uses a “vertical” or “shaft” kiln.
In the manufacture of 100
tons of cement by the “wet”
process, approximate quantities
of raw materials used are:
limestone, 125 tons; clay, 25
tons ; gypsum, four tons ; coal,
30 tons; and water, 20,000
gallons. Less water and coal
are required in the “dry”
process. In addition to these
materials, ironstone is used to
make “low-heat” cement, which
sets with the evolution of much
less heat than normal and is
used particularly in dam-
construction.
Post-war growth of the
industry has been substantial.
During the period from 1950-51
to 1956-57, employment rose
from 2300 to about 4000, while
investment on additions and
replacement recorded by the
Commonwealth Statistician
amounted to more than £l2
million,
Production
Output of cement in Aus-
tralia, the survey shows, is
approaching three times its
1938-39 level:
Australian Production
(’OOO tons)
1938-39 868
1945-46 .... .. 723
1950- 1,235
1951- .. .. .. 1.237
1952- .. 1,439
1953- .. 1,700
1954- .. 1,920
1955- .. .. 2,035
1956- 2,236
1957- .. .. .. 2,320
Source: Commonwealth Statistician.
.Since 1938-39 Australia’s per
capita use of cement has risen
from 0.127 tons to 0.234 tons a
year.
Australia’s cement - produc-
tion per capita compares
favorably with that of more
highly - developed countries,
figures for 1955-56 (the latest
international statistics available)
being:
Country Production Tons
(’OOO metric (metric)
tons) Per
capita
Australia .. 2,068 .219
U.K 12,945 .253
Canada .. 4,386 .275
U.S.A. .. 51,654 .307
West Germany 19,940 .394
(A metric ton is 22051 b.)
In States other than Western
Australia the industry is work-
ing at near present capacity.
Increased production expected
from plant at present being
installed or due to come into
operation shortly should take
care of increases in demand in
the near future.
Demand
Australian demand has in-
creased over the past six
months and is at a higher level
than for the corresponding part
of last year. However, the
picture differs from State to
State.
In Queensland and South
Australia orders are coming to
hand satisfactorily and sales are
brisk. N.S.W. demand has been
at a level higher than in the
same period of last year, but
producers who have recently
installed additional capacity
had anticipated a greater in-
crease and express some dis-
appointment.
Drought, then delays in con-
struction-works caused by rain,
are among the factors which
the producers in N.S.W. con-
sider to have prevented a
higher level of sales. Pro-
ducers expect orders at a higher
level in coming months.
Victoria’s demand being still
in excess of its production,
cement is coming in front
Tasmania, S.A. and N.S.W.,
but suppliers in N.S.W.
report that the amount cross-
ing the border has decreased.
Imports from other States
can be expected to de-
crease further as new plant
comes into operation in Vic-
toria towards the end of the
year.
The situation in W.A., where
a decline in demand became
evident a year ago, has not
altered, and at present there
are no signs of an improvement
in the position.
Costs and Prices
Costs and prices have been
generally steady during 1958,
with small decreases in costs
occurring in one or two
companies.
Producers in N.S.W. who use
road-transport face additional
costs under the provisions of
the new legislation imposing
charges on all commercial
vehicles. In W.A. new pro-
visions for long-service leave
to employees will add to costs.
Employment in the industry
has remained steady over the
past year. Labour is generally
in good supply. In relation to
its output, however, this is a
“capital-intensive” rather than
a “labor-intensive” industry.
Expansion has been proceed-
ing or is planned in all States
except W.A. The industry is
one where such expansion
involves heavy capital-expendi-
ture. Over the past six
months several development-
programmes have been com-
pleted. As a result, some
300,000 tons a year has been
added to the capacity of the
industry. Other projects are
nearing finality, and the new
plant will be operating by the


■■:?
ns <c
Af,
Will
“die” with you?
What assurance have you that the business you have
built throughout a lifetime will continue to function
without dislocation and to the advantage of your
beneficiaries after your death?
Your appointment of Union Trustee as Executor,
Trustee, Manager or Attorney would ensure sound
administration of your affairs —impartially and
permanently—at moderate cost —and safeguard the
future of your Estate.
Write or ’phone for an appointment to discuss our
service, and obtain a copy of the explanatory
booklet, “Important Facts Concerning Wills,
Executors, Trustees.”
THE
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Norman J. Carson,
C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton, F. S. Vine. C.M.G.
General .Manager: .John Larritt. Manager; C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and Riverina:
S. L. G. MacDonald. Altmry.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Eearmonth.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G.. M.L.C. (Chairman) ;
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman);
The lion. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.;
Bertram J. F. Wright, M.8.E.; It. A. Irish; Duncan N.
Mathieson. Manager: A. B. Tilemann. Assistant Manager:
A. G. W. Dent. Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
District Representative for Newcastle: H. B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: ,T. W. Fletcher. 0.8. E. (Chairman);
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon;
IV. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
CJiarleviUe.
UT25a
end of 1958. Total capacity will
then have risen to 2,950,000
tons a year. Further plans are
in hand for completion in 1960.
Queensland Cement and Lime
Co. will spend £1 million to
increase its capacity from
300,000 tons a year to 500,000
tons a year by that date.
The cement industry is basic
to Australia’s development and
its level of activity is dependent
on the rate of construction of
houses, commercial and factory
buildings and major develop-
mental works.
N.S.W. producers are con-
tinuing at a high level of out-
put and view the future con-
fidently.
In S.A., where additional
plant is being installed, demand
for cement for use in large
projects recently announced
will go close to absorbing local
production within the next
three years.
It appears that the increase in
Victorian demand for cement is
tapering-off, and in any case
increased capacity due to come
into operation should cause
imports from other States to
decrease. Production in W.A.
is regulated to keep pace with
local demand.
In view of Australia's con-
tinuing high rate of develop-
ment, the long-term outlook for
the cement industry appears
bright, the department’s survey
concludes.
Deficit Finance
Tlf ailing from Sydney,
** particularly, about the
Federal Budget, which has
brought a vote of censure from
the Labor side of the Senate,
appears to take the view that
not enough deficit-finance is
being employed to give industry
the pepping-up some of its
spokesmen seem to be demand-
ing.
The Federal Government has
budgeted for a cash deficit
of £llO million this year,
though its revenue position is
one of a surplus of £24 million,
apart from the fact that £l2B
million of its Budget expendi-
ture is capital-outlay charged
to revenue.
Its cash deficit of £llO
million is attributed to probable
med to repay £35 million of
Government loans in excess of
the sinking-fund proceeds avail-
able and £7B million of defence
expenditure charged to Trea-
sury-bills—the whole less £3
million of credits in trust funds.
The debiting of defence
expenditure to the Loan Fund
has been purely arbitrary, and
it would probably be truer
accounting to have charged the
defence appropriation to
revenue, and an additional £7B
million of State public works
to Treasury-bills.
In any case, by using £llO
million of Treasury-bill finance,
the Government will really
increase its overdraft with the
central bank to that extent.
That is about what it amounts
to. Just how much new credit
is created, or will be created,
is hard to tell, depending partly
on central-bank policy. The
inflationary aspect of deficit-
finance rests primarily in its
maintenance of Government
spending without correspond-
ing taxation. But the Federal
Government has a long record
of Budget surpluses and
works paid for out of revenue
as a kind of credit reserve.
Much of this reserve has been
spent, but it has left no debt
behind, and while it does not
exactly parallel the special
accounts of the trading-banks
lodged with the central bank,
there is, in effect, a resemblance.
The Federal Government and
the Loan Council this year
propose to pay-out not only the
£llO million cash-deficiency,
but also pay-out cash for
redemptions of £45 million
from the national debt-sinking
fund. On the other hand,
not only will £lO2 million
of State public works be paid
for out of revenue (described
as “special loan,” but appro-
priated from consolidated
revenue); £l2B million of
Federal public works will be
charged directly and unequi-
vocally to revenue.
Most of the complaint from
the Budget critics has been to
the effect that the credit-expan-
sion that will arise from the
discounting of Treasury-bills
with the central bank (thereby
increasing the Commonwealth’s
overdraft to that extent and
adding to the liquidity of the
trading-banks through the
Government cheques drawn on
the central bank adding to the
deposits of the trading-banks)
will not be enough to offset the
shrinkage in our income from
exports this season.
It is unlikely that any credit-
expansion, at the Budget source,
other than a bigger deficit to
finance accompanied by lower
taxation,.would be particularly
stimulating to industry, how-
ever much it might stimulate
inflation. Cuts in payroll-tax
financed for the time being
through Treasury-bill opera-
tions could conceivably be of
fairly wide assistance, as could
some cuts in sales-tax ; but the
help would come from the tax-
cuts rather than from the
financial method employed to
make them ; and the method
could be highly inflationary.
Certainly it would appear to
be better to restrain Govern-
ment spending (except for
obviously reproductive and
necessary public works) than
to go on increasing Govern-
ment overdrafts ; better to let
private enterprise have the
overdraft, through the banking-
system in the ordinary way,
where private enterprise feels
that it can make productive and
profitable use of the money,
Private enterprise has already
had the help of releases of
special accounts in the central
bank during the present
calendar-year. It may be that
more of these funds will be
released when conditions seem


DAVIS, ROTHWELL & CO.
(Incorporating Headlam, Hewson & Co.)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange .)
117 rUt Street, Sydney.
BL 1855 (3 lines)
110 Lords Place, Orange.
Orange 4054
Telegraphic and Cable Address, “KETKP/’ Sydney.
J. T. HARRY & DIXON
(Eric E. Dixon, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
113 Pitt St.,
Sydney
Telephone: BL 1987
Tel. Add.: “Harry Stock Exchange,’’ Sydney
to require their release.
Although bank-advances have
now reached an all-time record
level, special accounts lodged
by the trading-banks with the
central bank are still of the
order of £265 million, com-
pared with their peak of £340
million in February this year.
The fundamental problem of
the Australian economy is not
merely one of an inadequate
money-supply. It goes far
beyond that—to not enough
production to meet consumer-
demand and the cost of social
services, not enough saving,
not enough profit, not enough
capital-creation.
Through greater productivity
we can reduce costs and expand
trade, internally and externally.
Reductions in taxation would
tend to reduce costs ; but the
way to reduce taxes is not by
increasing Budget deficits but
by reducing Budget expendi-
ture.
With a stronger economy,
achieved through greater pro-
ductivity and lower production
costs, we could dispense with
much of the civil-service top-
hamper now employed solely
for the purpose of enforcing
controls and restrictions
brought about by shortages.
Disemployed civil servants
could be put into productive
industry easily enough in a
lower-cost economy.
Deficit-finance is a last resort
during a- period of financial
recession. It has its legitimate
uses. Certainly unemployment
should not be allowed to reach
the snowballing stage before
remedies are applied to stop
the employment rot. But
remedies include many things
besides the mere turning-on of
central-bank credit. There
needs to be industrial planning,
in co-operation with Federal
and State bodies, aiming in the
end at more efficient and lower-
cost output, of goods really
required at home and abroad ;
and at the economic construc-
tion of public works.
It is far better that any addi-
tional credit created or released
in an emergency should go
directly through the banking-
system to those sections of
private enterprise that can pro-
duce efficiently and competi-
tively. Government “relief-
work” tends to become “relief”
rather than “work” for any
practical purpose.
The Medical Benefits Fund
Touring 1957-58 an addi-
tional 300,000 persons
became eligible for medical
benefits as members of the
Medical Benefits Fund of Aus-
tralia, Ltd. An entirely mutual
and non-profit organisation, the
fund now claims a membership
in excess of 2,500,000, of
which 650,000 Queensland and
Tasmanian members participate
in the hospital-benefits section.
Common wealth-wide recipro-
city agreements enable members
to preserve their rights in the
event of transfer to another
State.
In addition to handling Com-
monwealth claims (£3,015,981),
the Medical Benefits Fund paid
£4,900,086 in claims last
year from contributions
of £5,827,750. Administrative
costs (£745,628) were kept down
to a very satisfactory 12.6 p.c.
of income, £130,000 of the
£249,488 surplus going to the
claims reserve, which, at
£2,325,000, now represents
14s. Bd. per person covered.
Accumulated funds at June 30
last amounted to £2,467,245.
Facilities for the immediate
payment,' in cash, of small
claims —a most attractive fea-
ture of the fund’s services—
were extended during the year,
and a third of all claims
received were settled in this
manner.
Since the fund’s inception
members and their dependants,
by virtue of their membership,
have received £25,600,000
towards the cost of medical and
hospital expenses.
The medical-benefits section
of the National Health scheme
has now been in operation for
five years and, according to
M.B.F. president, Sir Ronald
Grieve, “the fact that 70 p.c.
of the insurable population
have voluntarily entered the
scheme is the most significant
proof of its basic soundness.”
Ampol Exploration Report
[From L. Owen I
TThe chairman of Ampol
Exploration, Ltd., in his
annual review for the year
ended June 30, 1958, stated that
the Wapet programme for
1959 had not been fully deter-
mined, but that geophysical
work would continue, mean-
while, on a number of promis-
ing structures. He pointed out
that the year had been one of
concentration on new areas, in
an attempt to solve the riddle
of Rough Range oil, and he
stressed the fact that the
Suspension of operations in the
Exmouth Gulf district, at the
beginning of February, 1958,
did not involve the abandon-
ment of the area, which was
still being studied and re-
appraised.
For the time being, however,
it wa§ considered better to con-
centrate activities in new areas
(which included a number of
promising structures) where
there were prospects of being
able to place more reliance on
the results of geophysical work.
Ampol Exploration’s one-
fifth share of Wapet expendi-
ture was £273,964, compared
with £404,682 in 1956-57.
About 24 times as much was
spent on geophysical and geo-
logical work as on drilling;
the amount expended on geo-
logical work alone was not
specified, but it can be
assumed from past balance-
sheets that it is only a fraction
of the geophysical expenditure.
The chairman regarded the
results from Meda No. 1 well
“with a feeling of some hope
that these may lead to more
important conclusions in this
and other wells to be drilled.”
That, of course, we all fervently
trust to be true, but the sugges-
tion that the Canning-Fitzroy
operations may solve the riddle
of Rough Range oil is hard to
accept.
A discovery of flow-oil
within the Palasozoic strata of
these basins would be extremely
welcome from every point of
view and would increase the
prospects of success in beds of
equivalent age throughout
Western Australia. But the
Carnarvon Basin is separated—
and has been separated, as far
as is known, since early-
Pakeozoic times at least —from
the wells currently drilling, by
the Nullagine Platform and the
Pilbara Block. It must be con-
sidered, therefore, as a distinct
geological province.
The work accomplished in
the north-eastern parts of W.A.
has resulted, doubtless, in the
collection and collation of a
great deal of information with
reference to the shock-wave
characteristics of lower-Meso-
zoic and of Palaeozoic strata.
Whether the data so obtained
is applicable to beds of equi-
valent age in the Carnarvon
Basin remains to be seen.


Australian Paper
Manufacturers Limited
(Incorporated in New South Wales)
HEAD OFFICE: Aikman Street, South Melbourne, Victoria.
Mills at Melbourne, Broadford, Fairfield and Maryvale, Victoria;
Botany, N.S.W.; Petrie, Queensland; and Bayswater, W.A.
Sales Offices in all State Capitals
HIGHLIGHTS FROM THE 1958 ANNUAL REPORT
(For the 12 months ended 30th June, 1958)
Production
Sales
Selling Prices . . . .
Tariffs
Profit
Dividend
Note Issue
Development
and Research . . .
Forests
Most machines operated 168 hours a week.
Output of papers and boards 248,164 tons,
woodpulp 89,636 tons. (Last year papers and
boards 234,220 tons, woodpulp 87,898 tons.)
Sales at 250,557 tons highest yet achieved.
Increase in volume of 11% over last year’s
tonnage of 225,869 tons.
Selling prices unchanged for all major grades
despite increases in costs.
Rates of tariff duties maintained on main
lines and increased on toilet tissues.
Net Profit of £2,108,489, equal to 9.4% on
stockholders’ funds. (Last year £1,858,959
and 8.6%.)
Final dividend on ordinary stock of 5%
making 8% for the year.
To holders of ordinary stock and employees
of £1,400,000 of 7 per centum unsecured
notes of £1 each to be converted to 1,400,000
ordinary stock units of £1 each in 1961.
Petrie Mill inaugurated by Prime Minister
and producing well. Pulp mill site purchased
in New South Wales. New £5 million paper
machine ordered for Botany Mill. Maryvale
No. 1 machine extensions and modernization
of other machines planned. Joint enterprise
under way with Cellulose Australia Limited
in manufacture of woodpulp and tissue
papers in South Australia for which new
pulping process developed.
322,392 tons of eucalypt and pine pulpwood
produced. Use of sawmill waste developed.
Pine and eucalypt planting continued.


picture taking
• • •
and enjoy fun over again!
with KODAK'S famous
BROWNIE FLASH IS CAMERA
m
O
CAMB
Everybody can use this famous camera!
Just aim and press the button; it even
takes close-ups at 5 ft. By attaching a
Brownie Flasholder, fascinating flash pic-
tures can be taken, too! Camera £3.3.9.
Flasholder £1.7.6 (bulbs, batteries extra).
They’re made by
so you know they’re good
KODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD,
Branches in ail States
KODAK DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Royal Jelly
DIRECT FROM THE BEES
30 Capsules 50 m.gr.m. £5 5 0
30 Capsules 30 m.gr.m. £3 15 0
race Cream .. £1 17 C
Post Free. Free Leaflet.
REX PEACOCK
Ap’arist,
BOX 1818, KERAXG, VIC.
:
N.Z. INQUIRIES WELCOMEI
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Artbursts
Sydney Art
What with Arthur Boyd’s
crows, corpses, devils, dead-
beats, aborigines, angels and
brides flying through the air
and eating each other at David
Jones’ and a small group of the
advance-guard celebrating the
Waratah Festival in the head-
office of the Commonwealth
Bank, Sydney art for the week
is violent, cannibalistic, slap-
dash, right up to the minute and
even half-an-hour past it.
It is at least very much alive,
but generally too shallow ; and
if it is fair to take any one
painting as significant, it might
be taken as prodigiously signi-
ficant that at the Common-
wealth Bank they have hung
half a Heysen: an unfinished
oil, that is ; merely the first lay-
in for a big landscape he never
finished, with the grain of the
canvas showing everywhere
through the thin paint, and the
sky just bare canvas.
This would be hung to prove
that Heysen, when he didn’t
finish a painting, was
“modern” ; and, moreover, in
the soft, dead colors of the first
lay-in and the breadth and mass
of his arrangement, attractive.
And so he is. The theory itself
is attractive, and there is some-
thing in it: too much finish,
especially inefficient finish, is a
mistake.
But if half a painting is a
painting, half a bicycle is a
bicycle: there must be some-
thing wrong with the theory
somewhere. And so there is.
It would be fantastic to com-
pare this bare ghost of a paint-
ing with the magnificent Heysen
oils that are in the Adelaide
Gallery ; and anyhow Heysen's
best work was in his water-
colors, with their combination
of vitality and superb tech-
nical finish that places them in
an entirely different category
of art from most of the huge,
slathery oils that are the fashion
at the moment.
The most interesting painting
at the Bank, apart from the
Heysen and from Dobell's
“Scotty Allan” (which is prac-
tically an Old Master by now)
is the red Drysdale painting ot
an aboriginal; a sample of the
later work he has been show-
ing in London. This, too, may
be half a painting. Certainly it
has not the solidity of Drys-
dale at his best. But in its
own right, as a sketchy, fiery,
symbolical treatment of the
aboriginal emerging from or
fading into the dreamtime, it
is a most striking and effective
piece of work.
As for Arthur Boyd’s
tremendous bogies, which are
guaranteed to frighten the life
out of at least any intending
bride, of course they are half-
paintings. If, with his great
energy and vivid imagination,
Boyd were painting them small
and fine, they could be master-
pieces ; as they are, slathered
coarsely over six square-feet of
board or masonite or some-
thing, macabre and comic, a
pastiche of primitive style, they
are the equivalent in art of the
sophisticated ballad in litera-
ture. And as ballads they are
well enough ; but maybe it is
about time Arthur Boyd showed
us what he can do in the
sennet.
Stage and Music
The Editor
The Bulletin
Dear Sir,
I beg to submit my resigna-
tion as your theatre-critic for
the following reasons :
Early last week I went to
see Miss Rowena Jackson
dance in “Coppelia” and must
report that her dancing was at
once charming and brilliant.
I will have more to say about
her a little later. The follow-
ing evening I travelled to the
Independent Theatre at North
Sydney to take-in Mr. Alden’s
“Titus Andronicus” and my
wife upped and fainted when
Aaron chopped-off Titus's
hand.
When she had recovered she
told me that, when it came to
chopped-off hands, she didn't
mind Douglas Stewart’s refer-
ence to a “snowdrop” among
the rocks in his “Glencoe”
ballads, but that Titus’s hand,
bouncing around on the stage
“like a red and white crab,” was
too much for her. This, mind
you, from a woman who has
been able to look upon me with-
out flinching for more than 20
years. Fearing how she might
react to the sight of Tamora
dining on a pastie made of
her sons Demetrius and Chiron
I took her home for the rest
of the evening.
The following day I arranged
to visit “Titus” again. First,
in the afternoon, I headed
with pleasurable anticipation to
meet Dame Ninette de Valois
in, according to my invitation,
the first-floor lounge of the
Australia. This first-floor
lounge, Sir, appears to be about
17 acres in area and accom-
modates, I should say, several
thousand people, and it seemed
inconceivable that they could
all be there to meet Dame
Ninette, however illustrious she
may be as a dancer and choreo-
grapher and as director of the
Royal Ballet.
Still, with professional perse-
verance, I moved through the
crowd looking for familiar
faces until it seemed I was in
danger of being picked-up by
one of the many popsies drink-
ing there, or in even graver
danger of being picked-up for
trying to pick them up. Where-
upon, I inspected several other
lounges and finally asked at the
office for Dame Ninette’s party
Apart from telling me that
Dame Ninette’s suite was on the
fourth-floor and that she
wasn’t there anyway, the office
was unable to assist me, so
I wandered out into Castlereagh
Street not knowing whether to
be appalled at my own inepti-
tude, or worried that Dame
Ninette had been spirited away
by one of the many forms of
magic which crop-up so fre-
quently in the ballets under
her direction.
And so, Sir, over to North
Sydney and “Titus” again—and
to find no reason for changing
the opinion that Mr. Alden has
done an admirable job with it.
Mr. Alden's great strength as
a Shakspearian is that he
doesn’t muck about with his
author. That, of course, is such
a virtue in any producer that
you might think that all pro-
ducers would develop it, but
I assure you that producers
of Shakspeare in particular have
more ideas about his plays than
poor old Bill had himself. Not
so Mr. Alden. By and large,
he gives you what is there, good,


NEW ISSUE
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LTD.
Australia’s Leading Hire Purchase Organisation, announces a new issue of
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
7% p.a. . . 6 yrs.
6i% p.a. . . 4 yrs.
5i% p.a. . . 2 yrs.
Si% p.a.
5% p.a. ... I yr.
4i% p.a. 0.9 mths.
4% p.a. • • 6 mtfiis.
• • 3 mths.
I.A.C. guarantees fixed quarterly income, free of exchange. For full details, see Prospectus.
These are facts that the wise investor should know.
PAID UP CAPITAL
£ 10,000,000
ASSETS EXCEED
£55,000,000
A copy of the Prospectus has been
lodged with the Registrar General
in all Capital Cities and Canberra.
Our Auditors, Hessrs. L. B. Wallace & Son,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.) wish to state
that as at 31st July, I9SB, the amount of issued
Debenture Stock was £23,346,090 secured by a
first floating charge over the tangible assets
of the Company which amounted to
Your copy of the Prospectus is available from Members of Stock Exchanges, 703
Branches of A.N.Z. Bank Limited or I.A.C. Branches.
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
(Established 28 years)
MELBOURNE • SYDNEY • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH e HOCART • CANBERRA
• NEWCASTLE • GEELONG • WOLLONGONG • BUNBURY
Underwriting Brokers:
lan Potter & Co.,
Melbourne, Canberra & Sydney.
Trustee for the Debenture Stockholders!
The Perpetual Executors & Trustees Association
of Australia Limited.
D9a
plain and straight, so that you
feel that Bill, Mr. Alden and
yourself understand each other
perfectly. And that is a very
commendable thing in these
days when so many producers
do so many things to try to
convince you that Shakspeare
isn’t anything like the man you
read him to be.
My next call was on the
Philip-street Theatre, where
Lyle O’Hara, Jill Perryman,
Alton Harvey,. John Bluthal
and Ronald Frazer are flat out
to convince the audience that
they, the cast, and the audi-
ence are all bats. I have
always found it difficult to
summarise these Phillip Street
shows because, saying all there
is to be said about their sub-
ject-matter, and saying it with
delightful wit and polish, they
leave nothing to be said. (You
will by this stage, Sir, have
realised that my nerve is
cracking.)
Anyway, the audience was
still howling with laughter
when I slunk, slightly shaken,
from Phillip Street and consoled
myself that only the Royal
Ballet remained in the week’s
work. Well, Sir, I saw “Cop-
pelia” again, this time with
Svetlana Beriosova, and you
might think that such beauty
and such exquisite dancing
would soothe the most troubled
breast. .My difficulty, however,
is this:
Some time ago I saw Dame
Margot Fonteyn dance the
second act of “Swan Lake” and
I reported that she was in-
comparable. Then I saw Miss
Rowena Jackson dance, with
Bryan Ashbridge, the “Don
Quixote” pas cle deux and
decided that nothing could
approach her. Then, when this
Royal Ballet company opened
in Sydney, Miss-Jackson danced
a full-length “Swan Lake,”
which I considered was quite
the last word ; then Miss
Beriosova danced the same
ballet and T felt compelled to
comment that she was beyond
reproach. Then Miss Jackson
danced in “Coppelia” in a way
which I felt couldn’t be beaten,
and finally Miss Beriosova did
the same a few nights later.
All I can say. then, is that
Dame Margot Fonteyn is in-
comparably better than Miss
Jackson and Miss Beriosova ;
that Miss Jackson is incom-
parably better than Dame
Margot and Miss Beriosova;
and that Miss Beriosova is in-
comparably better than Dame
Margot and Miss Jackson.
And that, Sir, coupled with
my experiences at “Titus,” the
puzzling mystery of the where-
abouts of Dame Ninette, and
the assertion from Phillip Street
that I am bats, makes me feel
that I have indeed reached that
stage and should resign forth-
with.
Your Theatre Critic.
Films
Sydney Film Festival
The chief attraction of this
festival, held last weekend at
the University, was the world
premiere of “Dust in the Sun,"
a Rafferty-Robinson effort
based on Jon Cleary’s novel,
Justin Bayard. A pity, because
it mus t have been the worst
film shown. Over a convincing
Territory background is pasted
a cheap, improbable story about
the “tensions” on a luxurious
cattle-station where a wounded
policeman (Ken Wayne) and


GENERAL MOTORS
Acceptance Corporation, Australia
{lncorporated in U.S.AI. 'Limited Liability)
REGISTERED UNSECURED NOTES
PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST UNCONDITIONALLY GUARANTEED BY
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION, NEIE YORK
PER ANNUM
2 YEARS
i%
PER ANNUM
I YEAR
4 3 A% per annum
4!4% per annum
3 3 A% per annum
3 ] A% per annum
270 to 360 days
180 to 269 days
90 to 179 days
30 to 89 days
Subject to a minimum of £5OO, investments may be in multiples of £lOO and you may
nominate the exact day on which you want your Notes to mature and your money repaid.
We report that, in our opinion, as at December 31, 1957
Total paid up capital and earned surplus of General Motors Acceptance Corporation,
Australia was 2,564,011 dollars and total tangible assets were 38,241,317 dollars.
Furthermore, in our opinion, as at December 31, 1957 total Notes, Loans and
Debentures payable by General Motors Acceptance Corporation, New York
amounted to 3,739,369,086 dollars. Its other liabilities amounted to 384,673,533
dollars, and its total tangible assets were 4,397,874,582 dollars.
Melbourne, August 19, 1958.
Signed Haskins & Sells, Auditors .
HOW TO APPLY
For your copy of the Prospectus and Application Form contact:
MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGES,
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION, AUSTRALIA
W2Ol
his aboriginal prisoner (Robert
Tudawali) take refuge from a
murderous tribe. It is crudely
acted and edited, lapsing at
times mto the absurd cliches
of a second-rate western —de-
fects which were made more
noticeable by the presence on
the same programme of “The
Forerunner,” John Heyer’s
clear and sensitive documentary
about the Snowy River scheme.
The film one most looked
forward to was Rene Clair's
“Porte des Lilas.” And here
was the great director imitating
himself when young. It was
pure ’thirties Clair: the old
mixture of realism, humor and
sentimental poetry, used this
time to show that a man might
find himself in the most un-
likely situations. In a bleak,
crumbling “gate” suburb of
Paris, a middle-aged loafer
(Pierre Brasseur) is forced by
circumstances into shielding a
gangster on the run and finds
in himself unsuspected reserves
of ingenuity, courage and
loyalty; and, ironically, the
object of his awakened
humanity is, after all, worthless
and has to be destroyed. It is
a moving film, its improba-
bilities cancelled by a faithful
realism with details, a stuff-of-
life untidiness and a delicate
visual humor. And it has one
piece of unforgettable vintage
Clair: where the bar-owner
reads from a newspaper the
story of the gangster’s exploits
while, through the window, the
street urchins act it out in play,
The Japanese feature, “The
Precipice,” was another to hope
on. Something like “Rasho-
mon” perhaps? No indeed.
Another of those pictorially
magnificent pieces seemingly
made for export to the West,
every frame finely designed and
colored, but slow-moving and
dramatically diffuse. This time
the setting is modern. Two
young men are climbing a
mountain. One falls and is
killed. Did he suicide, or did
the unbreakable nylon rope
break? Interested parties—his
family, the married woman who
had rejected his love, the
makers of nylon rope—try to
conceal or reveal the truth. A
strong point forms, only to be
blurred by the other young
man’s infatuation with the
married woman ; his friend’s
sister’s love for him ; and his
fatal obsession about the
mountain.
“The Cranes are Flying” is
further evidence that the
Russians have broken out of
the clamps of “Socialist
Realism.” It is a strange, im-
pressive mixture of freshness
and melodrama, contrivance
and experiment. Two young
lovers are separated by war.
He is sent to the front; she
loses her family in an air-raid
and goes to live with his. She
betrays him by lovelessly
marrying his cousin, repents
and pines for his return. But he
has been killed, and she is
left to live only for the child
she has rescued. At times the
film slips into Hollywood
attitudes, but is always saved
by its spontaneity and boldness.
(The festival had not finished
at time of writing.)
J. A.


Safeguard your Estate
0
Incorporated in Victoria in 1871
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
TR57.34
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
by appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd. Executor of
your Will.
Advantages: Security . . . Continuity . . . Expert Management . . .
Impartiality ... Accessibility ... Secrecy ... Continuous Audit.. . Moderate
Charges . . . Fidelity to Trust.
Write or call for free booklet setting out the following —
★ Advantages of appointing the Company as your Executor either alone off
jointly with some trusted relative or friend.
★ Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
★ Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £972,812.
A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.©., D. 5.0., M.C., V.D. (Chairman); W. Sydney Jones;
J. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R. Syme; R. H. Norman, D. 5.0., M.C., Y.D.; W. E. M.
Campbell; T. L. Webb.
David Wilson M.A., LL.B., <?.C. (Chairman); J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8.,
K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Heffer; W. Sydney Jones; Alan G. Potter.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Paper Manufacturers, Ltd.
The dominant figure in the Australian
paper and board industry, A.P.M.
has lifted its output by about 50 p.c. over
the last four years and, with most of its
17 papei-machines working around the
clock the big co. continued to chalk-up
new production records last term.
Completion of the new Petrie (Q.)
mill last year gave A.P.M. its seventh
mill (Western Paper Mills Pty. [Perth]
was acquired in the 1957 term), but the
co.’s expansion plans are by no means
at an end. Current projects include
installation of a £5-million kraft-paper
machine at the Botany (N.S.W.) mill,
major extensions to another kraft-
machine, at Maryvale (Vic.), and, in
association with Cellulose Australia, Ltd.,
the establishment of a £2-million mill
for the manufacture of wood-pulp and
tissue-paper from South Australian soft-
woods. Looking still further ahead, the
co. has purchased a pulp-mill site near
Coff’s Harbor, in northern N.S.W. and
is at present investigating the pulp-
potential of forests in the Huon Valley of
southern Tasmania.
Portion of the co.’s pulpwood require-
ments come from the wholly-owned
A.P.M. Forests Pty., while another off-
shoot, Maddingley Brown Coal Pty.,
supplies coal to the three mills in and
around Melbourne as well as to outside
customers. The youngest member of the
group, A.P.M. Fibercraft Pty., was formed
recently to handle the Australian and
N.Z. rights to a new moulding-technique.
This co. will produce components,
moulded from wood-pulp, for use in
motor-vehicles, TV-receivers, radios, etc.
Apart from a sudden and temporary
setback in the 1953 term, earnings have
responded to the growing capital-outlay
of the post-war years, import-restrictions
and a degree of tariff-protection assisting
the co. to increase an already sizeable
share of the expanding local-market.
A.P.M. came into being in 1926 as
an operating-co. for Australasian Paper
and Pulp (established in 1897) and
Cumberland Board Mills, the parent cos.
amalgamating in 1948 and going into
voluntary liquidation in 1954, when mem-
bers exchanged their holdings for scrip
irt A.P.M. Shareholders have put-up a
large part of the funds sunk into the
business over the last decade, and paid
capital, £3,200,000 in 1948, now stands
at £17,000,000, including £3,500,000 in
6 p.c. cumulative prefs. The most recent
invitation to shareholders was in
February of this year, 1,400,000 £1
7 p.c. notes being offered in the ratio
of one note for every 10 ords. held. The
notes are convertible into ords. at par,
in 1961.
After raising the div.-rate from 7 p.c.
to p.c. in 1952, Australasian Paper
and Pulp could only manage a 4 p.c.
distribution in 1953, the rate rising to
6y p.c. in 1954 (when A.P.M. assumed
direct responsibility), p.c. in 1955 and
to the current 8 p.c. level in 1957.
Up 11 p.c. (24,688 tons) by volume,
sales of paper and board topped the
250,000-ton mark last term (to June 30)
and were a shade ahead of production,
the output of paper and board climbing
by 13,944 tons to 248,164 tons. Com-
pletion of the new kraft-machine at
Botany, expected in 1961, will lift the
co.’s total productive capacity to approxi-
mately 300,000 tons a year:
, Production Sales.
Wood Paper and Paper and
Year to Pulp, Boards, Boards,
June 30, Tons. Tons. Tons.
1954 .. 61,609 166,276 168.976
1955 .. .. 73,245 196,008 188,358
1956 .. .. 76,900 206,557 210,771
1957 .. .. 87,898 234,220 225,869
1958 .. .'. 89,636 248,164 250,557
Despite some increases in manufacturing-
costs the selling-price of all major lines
remained steady, price-increases made
towards the end of the previous term
combining with the higher turnover to
lift net-sales value by £2,436,860 to
£27,381,821.
Applications for further tariff-
protection, made in 1956, were rejected
by the Tariff Board, except in the case,
of toilet-tissues. The board, which had
criticised some aspects of the co.’s
operations in a 1953 report, commented
favorably on an improvement in the co.’s
operating efficiency.
Last term’s pre-tax earnings advanced
by £243,846 to £3,605,380, net earnings,
after excluding the proportion due to
outside shareholders increasing by
£256,924 to £2,125,658. The higher
profit was written after providing
£1,479,722 (down £13,078) for taxation
and £2,300,051 (up £279,885) for deprecia-
tion, but, as in previous years, the tax-
provision was calculated after drawing
on a provision for deferred-tax (raised
during the years when special allowances
were made for initial depreciation), a net
£98,704 being transferred from this
account:
Parent Only.
t Dividends
Net Prefs. Ord. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. 6.5 p.c. serves. serves.
1954. .1,476,708 190%]2 893,363 393,033 3,086,360
Unexplained reduction, £6BOO .. 3,079,560
7.5 p.c.
1955. .1,690,089 210,000 1,010,611 469,478 3,549,038
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Added on consolidation, £58,444 .. 3,602,482
Tax overprovided, £21,111 .. .. 3,623,593
From contingency reserve, £5780 ..3,617,813
7.5 p.c.
1956.. 1.726.524 210,000 1,010,611 505,913 4,123,726
Share premiums, £lBB9 .. .. 4,125,615
From contingency reserve, £6120 .. 4,119,495
8 p.c.
1957. .1,868,734 210,000 1,080,000 578,734 4,698,229
Tax overprovided, £98,587 . . .. 4,796,816
From contingency reserve, £5731 . . 4,791,085
1958.. 2.126.658 210,000 1,080,000 835,658 5,626,743
Unchanged at 8 p.c. the ord. div. was
covered with £835,658 to spare, earnings,
after meeting the pref. commitment,
equalling 14.3 p.c. on ord. capital com-
pared with 12.3 p.c. in 1957 and 11.2 p.c.
in 1956.
The provision for depreciation, etc.,
exceeded expenditure on fixed assets
(shown at cost, less depreciation) by
£140,478 and, with the help of the
£700,000 of note-money collected during
the term, and a £201,305 reduction in


Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdale” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
R. H. ALLEN
P. R. LiEVY
M. R. L. DOWLING
A. P. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911.
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
G. H. PARTRIDGE & CO.
li. D. PARTRIDGE, A. G. HANSON
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
113 Pitt Street, Sydney Telephone: BL 5031-2
stocks, the co. was able to cut current
liabilities by £1,506,014 and increase
working capital by £1,655,405 to
£4,344,949. Final payment on the 7 p.c.
notes, due this month, will bring in
another £700,000 and, allowing for
retained earnings, finances are in good
shape to cope with the capital-demands
of the next year or so. Reserves, at
£5,626,743, include £1,916,820 of share-
premiums : —■
Consolidated Balance-sheet,
Paid capital— 1956. 1957. 1958.
Pref. .. £3,500,000 £3.500,000 £3,500,000
Ord. .. 13,474,812 13,500,000 13,500,000
Reserves .. 4,123,726 4,698,229 5,626,743
Minority interest 25,187 26,397 28,814
Debentures .. 3,250,000 '3.250,000 3,250,000
Mortgages ~ 615,002 653,162 621,462
Notes .. •• -- 700,000
Deposits ... 82,574 750,634 308,546
Overdrafts .. 2,144.047 1,702,604 809,027
Creditors .. 1,391,379 1.325,332 1,351,740
Tax reserve .. 2,259,071 2,307,527 2,012,066
Staff funds .. 497,323 598,685 710,289
Final divs. .. 711,367 780,000 780,000
£32,074,488 £33,092,570 £33,198,687
Fixed assets .. 22,977,061 23,321,718 23,181,240
Stock .. .. 4,428,184 5,118,953 4,917,648
Book debts .. 4,646,743 4,629,399 5,022,297
Bonds, etc. .. 22,500 22,500 17,500
Shares other cos. 60,002
£32,074,488 £33,092,570 £33,198,687
Originally estimated at £1,500,000, the
capital-cost of the joint South Aus-
tralian project is now expected to be in
the vicinity of £2,000,000, of which
£1,200,000 will come from share-capital
subscribed, in equal parts, by A.P.M.
and Cellulose Australia. The jointly
owned co., Apcel, Ltd., will not now
seek advances from the S.A. Government
(a major shareholder in Cellulose Aus-
tralia), which earlier had agreed to pro-
vide a loan of up to £500,000.
Tariff-protection and import-restrictions
continue to shield A.P.M. from the effects
of weakness in world paper-markets, and
with the Petrie mill in full operation and
a steadily increasing demand for many
of the lines turned-out by the co., the
immediate outlook is encouraging.
“Satisfactory” trading-results are reported
in the first quarter of the current year.
At 295. 4d. the f.-p. £1 ords. would
return £5 9s. Id. p.c. from an 8 p.c.
distribution, the convertible notes, paid
to 10s„ selling at 17s. 3d. Allowing for
the final 10s. due on the notes this month,
the effective interest-yield up to conver-
sion would be £5 2s. 9d. Net tangible
asset backing for ords. at June 30 (con-
solidated accounts) was 28s. 4d.
Hilton Hosiery, Ltd.
HThe financial year 1957-58 was one of
-*• considerable uncertainty for the
knitting industry in general, and for
manufacturers of women’s hosiery in
particular. The present-day trend to a
more casual mode of dress has apparently
given a sharp knock to f.-f. hosiery, but
demand continues to wax strong for the
newer fine-gauge circular type, produc-
tion of which increased by 50 p.c. over
the year to about a fifth of the total
Australian output.
An outlay of something like £200,000
over the past four years on the necessary
imported plant has left Hilton well set-up
to cater for the current feminine pre-
dilection for seamless hose, and an un-
swerving allegiance to the quality market,
together with a steady diversification
into allied fields, brought the group
unscathed through a year of heightened
competition and price-cutting, especially
among non-branded lines.
Nevertheless, the record profit seems
to have been achieved by the grace of
the 6d. reduction in company-tax and
payroll economies, rather than expan-
sion of turnover, which was, however,
only slightly below the 1956-57 peak of
£3,263,540. Wages and salaries paid for
the term totted-up to £969,012, com-
pared with £1,145,257 for the previous
year.
Provisions for depreciation, steady at
£160,117 (£161,022 in 1957), and taxation,
down by £27,101 to £155,535, left the
consolidated net profit £10,821 higher at
£270,087, a figure which could well
represent an intermediate peak, against
the background of current overall trends
in the industry. On the other hand,
the 20 p.c. dividend looks to be cosily
covered, representing as it does only 43
p.c. of the profit available for the
ordinaries, £264,087, which, in turn,
represented an earning-rate on ord.
capital of 46.6 p.c., compared with the
49.1 p.c., 61.0 p.c., 56.2 p.c., 53.9 p.c.,
44.6 p.c. shown for the five years from
1953 onward. Added to reserves was
a whacking £128,205, to ring up a total
of £1,174,169 after deducting goodwill:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends To Re- Re-
Jtine Profit. Pref. Ord. serves. serves, t
30, £ £ £ £ £
5-6 p.e. 20 p.c.
1955 .. 250,575 5500* 87,286 157,789 756,837
To staff fund, £15,000 .. .. 741,837
Decreased difference between par value
and cost of shares in subsids., £23,867 717,970
6 p.c. 20 p.c.
1956 . . 251,108 6000 90,958 154,150 872,120
To staff fund, £7500 .. .. 864,620
Increased difference between par value'
and cost of shares in subsids., £53,590 918,210
6 p.c. 20 p.c.
1957 . . 259,266 6000 113,382 139,884 1,058,094
Loss saie fixed assets, £15,000 1,043,094
To staff fund, £7500 .. .. 1,035.594
1958 .. 270,087 6000 113,382 150,705 1,186,299
* Pref. div. rate increased from 5 p.c. to 6 p.e.
Sept., 1955. f Subject to intangibles, £12,130 at
June 30, 1958.
Public interest in Hilton’s career dates
from 1947, the ancestral proprietary
being founded a decade or so earlier.
War-time and post-war shortages pro-
vided a welcome greenhouse atmosphere
for many budding Australian secondary
industries, and go-ahead Hilton was one
which seized time by the forelock.
Despite import-licensing difficulties, sales
have been jumped-up nearly seven times
in the past 10 years.
At the outset production of women’s
hosiery engaged the whole of Hilton’s
capacity, but in 1948 there was a
branching-out into women’s and chil-
dren’s socks, and this division has grown
to be the largest sock-producing
unit in the country. Later was added
a yam plant which made the group
independent of outside sources for the
treatment of its raw materials, and in
the past two years the lingerie market
has been attacked on a moderate scale.
All three of these allied interests are
making good headway in a competitive
market.
Overall finances of the group, which
has six factories centred on Melbourne,
are impressive in their soundness;
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Capital— 1956. 1957. 1958.
Pref £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord 464,408 566,907 566,907
Reserves .. .. 872,120 1,058,094 1,186,299
Outside interests.. 42,237 25.875 25,875
Overdraft.. .. 383,582 322,126 448,208
Creditors .. .. 121.390 158,243 137,395
Staff fund* .. 72,500 90,500 102,803
Tax provision .. 235,179 183,684 168.737
Final divs .. 49,440 59,691 59,691
£2,340,856 £2,565,120 £2,795,915
Freeholds and lease-
holds .. .. 566,374 650.933 591,550
Plant, etc. 715.218 706,859 751,488
Stocks .. .. 566,564 835,851 956,622
Debtors .. .. 471,700 349,347 484,125
Investments .. 10,000 10,000
Goodwill .. .. 11.000 12,130 12,130
£2,340,856 £2,565,120 £2,795,915
* Includes long-service provision.
For the year ended June 30, the most
noticeable item in the balance-sheet is
stocks, up £120,771 to the relatively
large figure of £956,622, but well-
discounted by a provision of £BO,OOO
for a possible reduction in replacement
values. Caution on the part of retailers
today is throwing the onus of inventory-
holding back on to manufacturers, and,
despite the rapidity of reserve-building,
the bank was called-on to stake Hilton
for a further £126,082. Book-debts
remain strong at £484,125 (up £134,778),
well above the average for the past
four years ; however, collections could
possibly be tardier at the present time.
Net tangibles work out at 15s. sd. for
each f.-p. ss. ord.
Since Hilton appeared on the public
lists, equity shareholders have collected
two handy-sized bonus issues, 33-for-100
in 1950 and two-for-three in 1952. With
its obvious possibilities, Hilton is a
popular stock, buyers on Melbourne
’Change last week offering 18s. 6d. for
the scrip for an immediate yield of £5 4s.
Id. p.c. from a 20 p.c. dividend-rate.
Rocla Pipes, Ltd.
Royalties and licence-fees from over-
seas concerns using Rocla processes,
along with the completion of a £450,000
contract in New Zealand, helped to
boost the earnings of Rocla Pipes, Ltd.,
last term and, overflowing with
prosperity, the co. added a 10 p.c. “over-
seas bonus” to the basic 15 p.c. div.,
one-half of this pleasant windfall going


ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. MX 2208.
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
ALSTKALIAN AGEISTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
policies
are good
LIFE,
FIRE, ACCIDENT
& GENERAL
INSURANCES
get yours to-day
THE
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Incorporated in New South Wales)
HEAD OFFICE:
VICTORIA:
QUEENSLAND:
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
WEST AUSTRALIA:
A.C.A. Building, 66 King St., Sydney. 8X2165.
D. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen St., Melbourne. MU 5706.
C. A. Adams, State Manager.
A.C.A. Building, 270-272 Queen St., Brisbane. B 8527,
J, S. Grace, A.A.1.1., State Manager.
12 King William St., Adelaide. LA 1043.
P. J. Ryan, A.A.1.1., State Manager.
Warwick House, 63 St. George's Terrace, Perth. 8A6815*
0. S. O'Donoghue, State Manager.
out as gift-scrip on a one-for-20
basis.
The extension of Rocla’s
overseas associations has been
a relatively recent development
and promises to provide a handy
contribution to earnings, even
if future returns fall short of
the “very substantial benefits”
received from overseas activi-
ties last term. Manufacturers
in six European countries,
U.S.A., Canada, Rhodesia,
Pakistan and India, hold agree-
ments covering the use of one
or more of the production-
techniques or items of equip-
ment developed by Rocla,
while the 50 p.c.-owned Rocla
Pipes (Africa) Pty. operates two
plants in South Africa and
owns a part-interest in a third.
The Australian market is
supplied from the main plant
at Springvale (Vic.), where
much of the specialised equip-
ment used by the co. is also
turned - out, and from 13
manufacturing-centres scattered
throughout the eastern States
and South Australia.
Primarily a manufacturer of
reinforced and pre-stressed
concrete-pipes, Rocla also pro-
duces numerous other concrete
products as well as chemical
compounds for the treatment
(hardening, waterproofing,
etc.) of concrete.
The varied and still-increas-
ing applications of pre-stressed
concrete, coupled with the
needs of an expanding popula-
tion, have created over the last
decade a strong demand for
concrete products, with the
result that Rocla’s output has
increased almost fivefold (in
volume) since 1948, while net
earnings have risen from
£12,000 to almost £172,000
over the same period.
Retained earnings have
played a big part in financing
the outlay necessary for pro-
gress on this scale, but in the
past eight years shareholders
have been given three oppor-
tunities, through par-issues, of
increasing their stake in the
business, the success of the co.
being evidenced by; bonus-issues
in 1955 (one-for-six), 1957 (one-
for-10) and the recent one-for-
-20 handout. The div.-rate was
lifted from 10 p.c. to 12j p.c.
in 1952 and to 15 p.c. in the
following year. Including scrip
issued in the current term, the
all-ord. capital now totals
£571,004.
Output (up 27 p.c.) and sales
reached new peaks over the
year to June 30 last, improved
productivity per man-hour and
the higher turnover enabling
increased costs to be absorbed
without any significant effect on
earnings. Net profit . from
trading, reckoned after setting
aside £134,000 for taxation (up
£31,000) and a generous £60,000
(up £5000) for depreciation,
leapt from £124,125 to £171,780,
but the overall picture was even
better, the sale of patents,
fixed assets, etc., bringing in a
further £35,166. With a £7OOO
overprovision for tax and
£I9BO of premiums on scrip
in connection with a property
deal, a net £34,578 was added
to reserves, despite the £76,471
of bonus-scrip issued or
provided-for during the year:—
Re-
June Profit. r Dividend > serves.
30, £ £ £_
Share premiums, £873 .. 70,563
Profit sale patents, £26,685 97,248
’53.. 85,119 15 p.c. = 42,904 139.463
Assets revalued, £97,658 . . 279,767
Reserve capitaiised, £53,984 225.783
’55.. 87,864 15 p.c. = 47,797 265,850
Proceeds sale patents,
£16,808 282,658
Share premiums, £10.849.. 293,507
Intangibles w/off, £5000.. 288,507
Profit sale assets, £136 .. 288,643
’56..100,209 15 p.c. = 57,834 331,018
’57..124.125 15 „ „ 61,826 393,317
Res. capitalised, £49,280.. 344,037
Tax overprovided, £7000.. 351,037
Share-premiums, £I9BO .. 353,017
Profit sale patents, fixed
assets, £35,166 .. .. 388,183
Provision, bonus (scrip)-div.,
£27,191 427,895
’58..171.780 20 p.c. = 104,877 427,895
On share-capital, as it now
stands, earnings represented a


mm
:i; ; :
!*. • '
&
-
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
Telegraphic and Cable address: “Brownhills.”
Telephone: BW 1465 (3 lines).
A. H. BROWNHILL & CO.
(A. H. Brownhill, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
27 O’Connell Street Sydney
return of 30 p.c., compared
with an average of 27.1 p.c. on
the smaller capital employed
in the four preceding years, so
there was no strain involved in
adding the 5 p.c. (cash) bonus
to the 15 p.c. div.-rate.
Expenditure on plant and
freeholds (the latter were
revalued in 1955) added-up to
approximately £96,000, most of
which went into plant, but the
outsize provision for depreci-
ation and undistributed profits
easily.covered this outlay, and
the co. was able to lop £75,226
off the overdraft, carry an
extra £54,425 of book-debts and
invest a further £31,412 in
Rocla Pipes (Africa) without
disturbing, unduly, the com-
fortable financial structure: —•
1957. 1958.
Paid capital .. £492,013 £542,313
Reserves .. 393,317 427,895
Overdraft .. 113,815 38,611
Deposits .. 30,085 38,589
Creditors, etc.., 254,938 258,735
Tax provision .. 103,285 134.440
Final div. .. 32,909 95,168
£1,420,362 £1,535,751
Land, buildings. . 192,273 189,849
Plant, etc. . . 269,931 308,353.
Shares Rocla Africa 48,186 79,598
Stocks, etc. . . 453,986* 467,419
Debtors, etc. .. 412,994 472,448
Cash, etc. .. 42,992 18,084
£1,420,362 £1,535,751
*Less advance on contract.
The sizeable (£427,895) wad of
reserves accounts, in part, for
the high earning-rate on share-
capital, the f.-p. £1 ords., in-
cluding scrip issued since
balance-date, enjoying a net
tangible asset backing of 355.
While the local demand for
Rocla’s principal products is
governed, largely, by the
amount of finance available to
Government and semi-Govern-
ment authorities, extensions to
water-, sew'erage- and drainage-
systems have tended to lag
behind the growth of the fast-
spreading capital cities, and,
with further substantial in-
creases in population forecast,
a high level of expenditure on
this type of work seems likely
to continue for some time.
Nevertheless, retiring-chairman
and co-founder H. E. Clark has
reminded shareholders that the
co. “cannot expect year after
year to establish new records,”
and overseas earnings in the
current-term may well drop,
below the abnormally high
figures reached last year.
Buyers are currently offering
61s. for the scrip, cx-div. and
ex-bonus, but at the end of last
week sellers were holding-out
for 665. At the mid-price of
635. 6d. the yield on a 15 p.c.
div. basis would be 4.7 p.c.
Evans, Deakin & Co., Ltd.
C'etting the implications of
“difficult and highly com-
petitive trading conditions”
against the attractions of a
particularly well-covered 20
p.c. div. and a mighty pile of
reserves, buyers of the f.-p. £1
ords. in Evans, Deakin and
Co., Ltd., have dropped their
bids over the last couple of
months from 88s. 6d. cum div.
(2s. 6d.) to an px-div. 81s.
At the low'er price the scrip
would return £4 18s. 9d. p.c.
from a 20 p.c. distribution,
capitalisation of the market-
premium giving an earnings-
yield, on the basis of last term’s
showing, of around 11.1 p.c.
A well-padded Queenslander,
Evans, Deakin and Co. controls
a 47-year-old shipbuilding- and
engineering -business with ship-
yard, heavy- and light-engineer-
ing plants and a structural-steel
works centred around Brisbane.
In the 1957 term the co. pur-
chased a foundry, slipway and
general-engineering works at
Tow'nsville, where a branch
handling the co.'s agencies for
engineering equipment has
been established for many
years. A 25 p.c. interest is held
in the Queensland offshoot
of Commonwealth Engineering
Co., Ltd., manufacturer of
railway r.olling-stock, etc.
Until last term brought a
general slackening in demand,
the co. had experienced little
difficulty in post-war years in
maintaining an amply-filled
order-book, the steady expan-
sion of the undertaking being
financed mainly by retained
earnings. The reinvestment of
a large proportion of the profits
has greatly enhanced the earn-
ing power of the relatively
small share-capital and, with
975. lid. in reserves for every
£ of ord. and employee-capital
and an average earning-rate
over the past five years of over
51 p.c., after allowing for pref.
divs., the sharemarket is more
concerned with the timing than
with the possibility of a bonus-
issue. In this regard, the
admitted need for shipbuilding-
orders and a drop in engineer-
ing inquiries should be taken
into account. Bonus-scrip was
last handed-out in 1953 (one-
for-three), the issue coming less
than three years after a one-
for-one gift, in December, 1950.
Of the £359,935 paid capital,
£40,000 is in prefs. partici-
pating up to 10 p.c., £60,000 in
5-6 p.c. prefs. and £259,935 in
ord. and employee-shares.
Shipbuilding activities “con-
tinued steadily” last term (to
June 30), but a weaker and
strongly competitive market
appears to have affected other
sections of the business, bring-
ing about a small decrease in
turnover (unstated) and a
decline in profit-margins. A
higher return from investments
(up £10,990 at £38,410) partly
offset the £18,219 decline in net
profit from trading (£97,667)
to leave total net earnings, as
claimed by the board, £7229
lighter at £136,077. Provision
for depreciation was virtually
unchanged at £54,896. Judging
by the £139,000 (down £24,500)
provision for taxation and the
addition of an unexplained
£30,337 to reserves (£346,934
has been added in this fashion
in the last five terms), the Tax
Commissioner’s estimate of
net profit, after tax, would
probably be somewhere around
£95,000 higher than the
board’s:
f Dividends ■, Re-
Jne., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
Unexp. additions, £36.893. . 455,803
’53.. 97,254 10 &5 15 =40,950 512,107
Unexp. additions, £61,161... 573,268
’54..115,473 10 & 5 15 =44,200 644.541
Unexp. additions, £85,702. . 730,243
’55..138,374 10 & 6 817,677
Unexp. additions, £70,037 .. 887,714
’56..148,171 10 & 6 174=52,540 983,345
Unexp. additions, £99,697. . 1,083,042
’57..143,306 10 & 6 20 =60,280 1,166,068
Unexp. additions, £30,337. . 1.196.405
’58..136,077 10 & 6 20 =60,280 1,272,202
* .Excludes depreciation reserve, now
£245,906.
Introduced in the preceding
term, after two years at \l\
p.c. and four years at 15 p.c.,
the 20 p.c. div.-rate called for
only 41 p.c. of the earnings
available to ord. and employee-
shareholders.
The co.’s financial strength
and impressive reserves are
features of the balance-
sheet :
Paid capital— 1957. 1958.
Pref. .. £lOO,OOO £lOO.OOO
Ord. .. 254,545 259,935
Reserves •• 1,166,068 1,272,202
Depreciation res. 223,663 245,906
Creditors, etc.*’.. 578,915 626,322
Final divs. .. 33,925 33,925
£2,357,116 £2,538,290
Land, buildings,
plant .. .. 801,750 83:).183
Shares •• •• 97,024 99,794
Stocks .. .. 835,623 839.398
Debtors . . .. 416,396 422,399
Cash, bonds, etc. 206,323 341,516
£2,357,116 £2.538,290
* Includes tax provision, etc.
The less-favorable trading
conditions referred to by the
directors had, if anything, a
negative, rather than positive,
effect on the balance-sheet
accounts —unless the £135,193
jump in cash, bonds, etc., is
regarded as a sign of excessive
liquidity. The £626,322 (up
£47,407) against creditors
includes a collection of pro-
visions, advances, etc., lumped
together with creditors in the
accounts.
Another “difficult” year
seems to be indicated by the
reduced level of engineering
orders, while effects of slack-
ness in the shipbuilding-
industry could show-up in next
term’s figures if recently sub-
mitted tenders for the construc-
tion of new vessels are unsuc-
cessful. At the same time, it
would take a substantial and
sustained drop in earnings to
dull the potentialities of the
scrip.


Now even faster handling of hulk grain I
MM
H
OUTPUT
CLEANING
HOLE AND
COVER
DRIVING
PULLEY
INPUT
HGW TO SELECT A VERTICAL AUGER TO FIT
A LYSAGHT SILO—CENTRE FILLING ONLY
SILO CAPACITY IN BUSHELS
SILO
T'i>Trr-T'i?r» 1.000 2.000 2.000 3,000 3.500 4.500 8,500
ual ILU (squat)
Without Earth Ring Vl6lO V 2012 V 2412 V 2412 V2BT4 V 3214 V 3614
With Earth Ring .. V 2012 V 2012 V 2814 V 2814 V 2814 V 3214 V4OlB
LYSAGHT
Grain Augers
A completely new type now available to fill
and empty Lysaght silos. Features includat
• Unique centre-drive unit (patent pending
No. 22636/S6) as shown in insert below.
• Improved capacity.
• All working parts com •
pletely encased.
• Adiustable chut •
tube.
AUGER PRICES
(F.O.R. NEWCASTLE)
Vl6lO £l4B
V 2012 £154
V 2412 £l6O
V 2814. £167
V 3214 £175
V 3614 £179
Y4OlB £lB9
SILO AND EARTH RING PRICES
(F.O.R. NEWCASTLE)
Nom. Cap. Act. Cap. Steel
Bushels Bush. Silo Earth Ring
1,000 .. 1,280 £l3B £l6 15 0
2,000 (Tall) 2,100 £2ll £25 5 0
2,000 (Squat) 2,410 £2ll £33 10 0
3,000 .. 3,380 £275 £33 10 0
3.500 .. 3,780 £298 £33 10 0
4.500 .. 4,850 £453 £4l 5 0
8.500 .. 9,250 £719 £5l 10 0
Write for further information to:
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD. in all Capital Cities or
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED. NEWCASTLE WORKS
A39AYC
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
HThe Conservatives are quietly
massing their resources in
preparation for the general
election. Mr. Macmillan’s tour
of the Midlands may be
followed by others in similar
heavily-populated areas. The
method is one that fits his
character and suits his per-
sonality. Neither tub-thump-
ing nor ostensibly spreading
propaganda, he aims to move
unobtrusively among all sorts
of people rather in the manner
of a general during the early
stages of a military operation.
Another pointer is the publi-
cation of Onward in Freedom
to coincide with the beginning
of a campaign described, a little
grandiloquently, as Roll-call
for Victory. The chief object is
to win new members and, more
important still, more party-
workers and canvassers. This
pamphlet is a clever job and has
obviously been carefully
thought out. The cover is glossy
and challenging (Victory-V and
lion-rampant on a blue back-
ground), while the type is
expensive-looking and the
letterpress easy to read. Since
readability is not usually a
characteristic of political tracts,
the Central Office have scored
a triumph here, as they also
have in compressing their
message into a mere 26 pages
of double-spacing.
The pamphlet hints at the
pattern of legislation during the
next session of Parliament.
This promises to be Onward to
Popularity by way, as it were,
of more freedom for the
individual. There will be more
help for the small farmer,
easier facilities for house-
purchase and the buying of
shares, and a Pensions bill
which will counter the Labor-
party's grandiose plan by a
more practicable alternative.
Also promised is “pioneer
work in mental-health and
penal-reform” and measures
for slum-clearance, but the
pamphlet avoids mentioning
controversial and politically
dangerous issues such as the
Wolfenden Report.
Present indications suggest
that the Government will not
go to the country before May
and that its strategy is based
on two factors, one material
and the other psychological:
substantial tax - concessions
following the nation’s economic
recovery, and the popularity of
the Prime Minister as “the
right man at the right time.”
Important, too, and a move
in the cause of freedom, is the
Government’s intention to
abolish those emergency
powers and regulations which
are still hanging over from
Socialist government.
Too Blue?
Though the Conservatives
are, at present, more comfort-
ably placed than the Socialists
(whose self-revelation and
embarrassed lack of direction
are so manifest as to be an
electoral asset to their
opponents) the party-leaders
are not without their worries.
Onward in Freedom recites, as
part of the Conservative faith:
“We are a national movement,
by composition and by convic-
tion. We represent British
thought and endeavor in every
walk of life, in every social
grouping, and in every age-
range, young and old.”
No sooner had these epic
home-thoughts been voiced
than “The Times,” in a feature
on Conservative trade-unionists,
pointed out that it is im-
possible for a humble man,
however able and well-fitted, to
get himself adopted for a “safe”
seat. The lowlier folk, who
speak for the workers and are
feted at conferences and gladly
accepted in constituencies where
a Labor victory is a foregone
conclusion, simply haven't a
chance of getting into Parlia-
ment. The reason? Because of
the snobbishness of local
organisations. Here the Central
Office has no power: it can
veto a candidate known to be
unsatisfactory, but it can’t
sponsor one.
This short-sighted, parochial
attitude is as much due to
lionising as to snobbishness, but
it is a matter of real concern
to the party-leaders and
organisers—as it must be to the
present occupant of 10 Down-
ing Street.
Auntie Beatrice
So keen was the anticipation
and so heavy were the advance
bookings that the Broadway
success, “Auntie Marne,” was
expected to be a second “My
Fair Lady.” It is not, although
houses are full and the Adelphi
theatre rings with laughter.
The function of the lighter
stage is not to serve the arts
but to entertain and, by so
doing, to spin large sums of
money for promoters, creators
and executants. Sometimes art
contributes to performance and
sometimes not. Art pervades
“My Fair Lady” in such quality
that any theatregoer, whatever
his intellect or degree of
sophistication, feels happier and
richer for the experience. There
is art in Julie Andrews's every
inflexion; in Stanley Hollo-
way’s robust vulgarity ; in Rex
Harrison’s sustaining a long
role that one minute is acting
and the next extravaganza ; in
the music, which, by the
brilliant orchestration of com-
monplace tunes, wittily and
dramatically enhances the plot;
and, above all, in the painstak-
ing and meticulously “right”
production.
This cannot truly be said of
“Auntie Mame” (although, in
fairness, there is no music to
help it along). The production
muddles through, artlessly
though not always ineffectually,
to a happy conclusion. There
are moments of delightful in-
consequence, of broad comedy
and of genuine pathos, but they
are not related. Most of the
acting is as embarrassingly
uneven and unsure as the
American accents of the Eng-
lish cast. The successive black-
outs, each with its own pay-
off trick, are tiresome, as are
the gags, sedulously tied-up
in little parcels,
What, then, makes the even-
ing? Largely Beatrice Lillie,
who, by a coincidence, is “a bit
of a whack,” an unaccountable
eccentric, just as Auntie Mame
is. Supported by Florence
Desmond, as a dizzy off-Broad-
way leading-lady, Miss Lillie
goes her own way—very much
herself—a characteristic and
busy Bea.


Grey Gelding
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
The new green utility-
truck drew level with
the man on die bay
horse leading the grey
one, and stopped.
The horseman whistled the
blue cattle-dog away from the
little mob of vealers and
turned a lean, grinning face
towards the dark woman
sitting beside the fair man.
“Hullo, Missus,” Harry
Purdy said, leaning down from
his saddle: “Goin’ to do a
bit of shopping?” His yellow
eyes flickered from Ann
Lewis’s face to her husband’s,
ahead to the vealers, back to
Ann. “Been taking them
steady,” he said. “I’ll give
them a drink at the lagoon
before I put them in the yards.”
“I can’t afford to go shop-
ping,” Ann said gaily. “At
least, not for anything I’d want
to buy.”
Ted Lewis looked at her
sharply. It was unlike Ann,
who had always said, fiercely:
“Never cry poor!” And here
she was crying poor to, of all
people, Harry Purdy . . .
Harry’s gaze 'wandered to
the vealers, bunched in some
shade beside the road.
“Pity prices are so lousy,”
he said. “A year ago you’d
have got some nice spending-
silver out of that lot, Missus.”
“But then we weren’t here
last year,” Ann said thought-
fully. “How’s the little mare
going?”
She didn’t glance at the grey
gelding, the cause of the quarrel
that had smouldered for weeks,
flaring into a ridiculous and
passionate climax last night.
“Right as rain, Missus,”
Harry said heartily. “She
needs a bit of work, that’s all.”
“I’ll have to exercise her,”
Ann said. The bay mare was
her personal hack, a gift from
her father. Still she didn’t look
at the gelding.
Harry hooked one narrow
leg over the knee-pad of the
saddle, stared at the vealers:
“Yair. Pity prices are down.”
He squinted down: “See y’ at
the sale, Ted?”
“Yes,” Ted said shortly, and
accelerated. Why shouldn’t
Harry see him at the sale?
TTis ute kicked red dust into
the wondering white faces
of the Hereford vealers.
Ted said quietly: “We’l!
have to let Harry go soon,
you know.”
“I suppose so.” She sighed.
“A pity—he could have taught
you a lot. He’s the best stock-
man between the two rivers,
Dad always says.”
Big Jim Murdoch said a
great many things, Ted thought
grimly, according to the
expediency of the moment.
Whether Harry was or was
not a superlative stockman,
they couldn’t afford his wages
much longer - the bank-
manager had made that pain-
fully clear. But, anyway, there
was no doubt in the world thaf
Harry was a conscientious
gossip. So what had got into
Ann to drop that remark about
shopping?
“When will you be finished
the fencing?” she asked
suddenly.
He kept his eyes on the
road: “Oh, a couple of weeks.
Say three.”
“Well, Harry can finish-up
then.”
Depending on what Dean
had to say today, he thought.
The place really needed two
men full-time, himself and
another, but . . . The fencing
was another problem. He
hadn’t been able to afford to
have the job done by a con-
tractor, and had tackled it
himself, and had been finding
it heavy going ; that and the
clearing . . .
He parked outside Ham-
mond’s store, and went in to
the hardware department while
Ann picked-up some groceries.
He packed their purchases in
the back and asked her if she
wanted him to drive her to her
mother’s.
She said, “Yes.”
Outside the big brick house
Jim Murdoch had built in the
town’s best residential street
when Ann was a baby, she
said: “Are you coming in?”
He hesitated, but she said
with a smile and a sudden,
swooping gesture that always
disarmed him—a sweep of the
hand, as though she were about
to strike, ending in a kind of
gentle pat —“Come on, do.
Mother would like to see you.”
After all, he had no quarrel
with Mrs. Murdoch. He
followed her slowly into the
house.
JpOR that matter, there was no
open quarrel between him
and Big Jim, although he
would just as soon not have
met him this morning ; had, in
fact, half-expected that Ann’s
father would be down-town.
But when Mrs. Murdoch pro-
duced morning-tea Big Jim
emerged from his lair, and
smilingly announced his inten-
tion of having a cup of tea
before he went out.
A tall, heavy man of about
50, with dramatically white
hair and a strong, handsome,
dark face, dressed in a light-
weight suit, white shirt and a
bright bow-tie, he immediately
took the centre of the stager,
as was his due, but was less
offensively patronising than
usual. He addressed most of his
remarks to Ann, who answered
coolly.
Finally the great man put
down his cup, looked at his
watch and stood up.
“Must go down town,” he
rumbled. “I’ve got a lot to do.”
Ted thought he should say
something: “Selling today?”
“Yes. The boys are bringing
in some fats.” He looked
grave. “Feed won’t last, you
know. If I don’t get what I
want today I’ll truck them. Did
you bring any in?”
Ted nodded: “A few
vealers.”
Big Jim nodded: “Wise, very
wise—get rid of anything you
can.” His dark eyes sparkled.
“That all you’re selling?”
“Yes.” Ted could see what
was coming, but deliberately
misunderstood. “I haven’t got
many cattle, you know.”
But Big Jim was determined
to be roguish: “I thought you
might have been selling some
—er —horseflesh.”
Ann made a small, impatient
sound.
Ted gave what he hoped was
a sporting grin: “The grey
gelding—yes ; Harry’s bring-
ing him in, too. A few horses
are being offered today.”
Big Jim wagged his white
head and grinned: “Very
naughty of Jum, very naughty
indeed. He’s a wild boy, just
like I was when I was his age ;
isn’t that so, mother? Up to
all sorts of devilment.”
“It was mean of Jum,” Mrs.
Murdoch said placidly. “Ted
doesn’t know anything about
horses.”
Big Jim roared with mirth:
“A chip off the old block,” he
said. “That’s how I made my
money, young fellow —dealing.


And in horse-dealing anyone is
fair game.”
“Not to mention grandfather
leaving you thirty-thousand
acres,” Ann said, “and a few
useful pounds to deal with.”
“That’s enough from you,
young lady,” her father shouted
boisterously. Any mention of
his wealth pleased him. “Any-
way,” he said, beaming, “I
made it grow.”
He looked Ted up and down
with a magnetic dark eye that
said plainly: here’s a young
fellow that will never make
anything grow. Still, he's
married to my daughter, we'll
have to try and make some-
thing out of him . . .
By leasing me land for about
twice what it’s worth, Ted
thought bitterly, then telling
everyone in the district what
he was doing to help that poor
milksop of a son-in-law of
his . . .
No doubt at all, Ted thought,
it had been his own fault. He
had been too long away, should
have checked bn current land-
values. But it had never
occurred to him that Ann’s
father would try to cheat him.
In the beginning, probably,
Big Jim had had no such idea,
was merely interested in
settling Ann near the family ;
then, finding he had a mug to
deal with, the old dealer’s
instincts had come to the sur-
face. He probably consoled
-himself with the thought that
Ann wouldn’t want for any-
thing, he would see to that, if
anything went wrong . . .
Ann’s voice cut across his
thoughts, quietly venomous:
“It was a dirty, mean, des-
picable thing for Jum to do,
and you know it, Dad.”
Big Jim gave her a
startled glance that showed he
knew she meant it, but he
decided to laugh it off: “Ho,
ho, you can’t always have
young Ted here tied to your
apron-strings, Ann. He’s in a
tough country now, and don’t
let him forget it. Young Jum’s
just high-spirited, like I was
at his age, eh, mother? I was
just such another as Jum, and
can’t deny it. Not a horse in
the district I couldn't ride, not
a man I couldn’t beat . . .”
You big bag of wind, Ted
thought wearily. Aloud he
said:
“I seem to have heard of
one.”
“Eh? What’s that?”
Big Jim glowered. An
interruption from his daughter
he could take, but a connec-
tion by marriage didn’t warrant
the privileges of the blood, the
dark eyes warned.
“Behind the blacksmith’s-
shop when you were both
twenty,” Ted said calmly. “It's
quite a yarn among the old-
timers. The man who beat you
was Martin Lewis.”
“Martin Lewis?”
The dark eyes looked at Ted
curiously ; it’s so long ago, Ted
thought, that he’s forgotten
that I’m Martin Lewis’s son.
But Big Jim hadn’t for-
gotten ; or, if he had, he
remembered now: “How long
is it since your father left here,
Ted? Twenty years?”
“Something like that,” Ted
Said.
“So they still talk about that
fight, eh?” Big Jim chuckled.
“And doubtless still argue
about who won. He was a
bonny fighter, your father,
Ted.”
He looked at Ted keenly,
swung around to his daughter.
“Isn’t it about time you two
had some children?”
“Dad! ” Ann’s voice was
bored. “Never mind your
horse-breeding theories.”
But Big Jim was examining
Ted intently: “I’ve seen it
happen plenty of times,” he
muttered. “Skip a generation.”
In a minute he’ll start
examining my teeth, Ted
thought wearily. He helped
himself to another cup of tea.
“Well, you’re not half the
man your father was,” Big
J i m pronounced finally.
“You’re as tall, but he was a
lot broader.” A new thought
struck him. “Didn’t I hear of
you doing some sort of
amateur boxing—at college or
somewhere?”
Ted nodded: “That was a
long time ago.”
“Yes, I suppose so. Not
quite the same thing as mixing
it on the grass with bare
knuckles, eh?” He chuckled.
“All the same, Ted, I wouldn't
advise you to try to take the
price of that horse Jum sold
you out of his hide. No, I
certainly wouldn’t advise that.”
Ted shrugged: “Oh, he’s
welcome to the fifty-quid.”
“For a horse that’s worth all
of five,” Ann said.
“If that,” her father said
delightedly.
Fifty-pounds, Ted thought.
If fifty-pounds could get me
out of trouble . . . But, of
course, it couldn’t . . .
“Well,” Big Jim said, “I
must go.” He glanced at Ted,
smiled. “Yes, I’m afraid Jum
would break you in two, young
fellow, for all your boxing
tricks.”
“Boxing tricks?” Ted said.
“Oh, I see what you mean. As
I said, it was a long time ago.”
He smiled suddenly, the rather
gaunt, sunburnt face lighting
up. “You can tell Jum not to
worry.”
“He won’t worry,” Big Jim
said explosively, and walked
out.
Ted glanced at his watch:
“I’d better go, too, 1 suppose,”
he said. “I’ll meet you —
where?”
. “Here,” Ann said.
“Come to tea,” Mrs. Mur-
doch said hospitably.
“Thanks,” Ted said. “Fve
got a bit to do after the sale,
though, so I’ll make it later.
All right with you, Ann?”
She nodded, and walked with
him to the door.
“Ted —you mustn’t take too
much notice of Dad.”
“I don’t.”
“He likes to act the hearty
Corinthian, you know.”
“Probably.”
She looked at her feet:
“And don’t take too much
notice of me, either. This busi-
ness with the horse. It was
just that I hated to see you
look a fool.”
“I know.”
What sort of a fool would
she think him if she knew what
he had agreed to pay for the
lease? He had never told her
the amount, and she had never
asked. In her family the women
weren’t encouraged to be
curious about money matters.
It was always there ; Big Jim
provided. And then she had
married him, and they had
lived on his salary, not very
stylishly, but quite happily, till
Big Jim had appeared on the
scene oozing geniality and
booming tales of big money,
land, leases, wool-cheques . . .
He had been tempted, he had to
admit that. She hadn’t tried
to force him in any way, said
it was his decision to make,
that she was quite content to
stay where they were, if that
was what he wanted . . .
She looked at him earnestly,
and for a moment it was like
it had been, back in a world
where he was Ted Lewis, not
Big Jim’s daughter’s husband:
“You won’t get into any
trouble today, will you?”
“Trouble?” he was puzzled.
“What sort of trouble?”
“I mean . . . fights or any-
thing?”
“Fights?” He was amused.
“I’m not a fighting man.”
“I see,” she said quietly.
Oeveral men were waiting in
the barber’s-shop, so he
had sat down to wait, reading
a magazine.
Presently he heard a familiar
voice saying: “Bloody fool
bought this horse with every-
thing wrong with it from
strangles to . . .” looked up
and met Harry Purdy’s startled
yellow eye. Nodded, and went
back to his reading. When his
turn came Purdy had gone.
“Haircut,” Ted said briefly,
and sat back and closed his
eyes. He felt tired —the row
last night with Ann. Then,
when it was over, Ann had put
her dark head on the pillow
and slept like a child, leaving
his mind racing ... He had
prowled around the house
until almost daylight, chain-
smoking . . .
He realised the barber was
asking him something:
“What’s that?”
“I said have you seen Jum
Murdoch in town today?”
“No.”
The barber snipped nerv-
ously: “Just wondered, that’s
all. Fellow in here was saying
there’s some trouble between
you two.”
“No trouble,” Ted said
shortly.
“Something about a
horse . . .”
Ted jerked his head around
and stared at the barber, and
the scissors stopped snipping.
(Continued on page 56)
SAMMY’S HILL
Wombat, wallaby, snake and
Sammy
Move in mist if they move still ,
Slide like broken stone and
vanish
Down the far side of Sammy’s
Hill.
Down they go in tussock and
grass
With not one tree to break
their fall;
When Sammy went, whoever
he was,
With axe and fire he took them
all.
I went out where Corriedales
forage
High in the mist on Sammy's
• Hill
And all I found of that old
forest
Was rock and lichen lingering
still,
And fierce and small and
orange-spotted,
Crouching where Sam had
stalked in vain,
One orchid like a tiny leopard
That pounced upon a drop of
rain.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
73 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
McCrae versus The Rest
Momentous Mayhem
in Maryborough
By RAY DAVIE
The Victorian town of
Maryborough could
have gone down in
history as the site of a
gory fracas worse than the
rumpus at Eureka Stockade.
The time was June, 1855.
Maryborough then was an all-
mixed-up collection of calico
and canvas tents, profitable
holes in the ground, rough
shanties, dust plus flies in
summer, and freezing cold and
rain in winter.
There were Germans,
Italians, Irishmen, Scotchmen,
Englishmen, Americans and
plenty of other races all living
whisker to whisker.
Maryborough, in fact, was a
typical goldfield of the ’fifties,
where you could get rich, go
broke, starve, or succumb to
grievous sickness —all with the
greatest ease.
Most big troubles start in a
small way. The ingredients may
be there, but they don't flare-
up until some small spark
ignites them. In this case the
spark was a man named John
McCrae, described as an Irish-
Canadian. He arrived at Mary-
borough to find that there were
plenty of gold-claims on the
field, but none for the asking.
Those who had possession
showed no desire to move.
As McCrae tramped through
*** the slush and mud of that
cold June he felt irritation boil-
ing inside him like some
poisonous ferment. This was
the land where riches waited
to be picked-up by Tom, Dick
and Harry! It didn’t look much
like it.
Then he made a discovery
which irritated him still more.
Some of the diggers were
squatting on claims they made
no pretence of working.
One crowd of men, said to
be Irishmen from Tipperary,
had four such inactive claims ;
but so far no one had seen fit
to contest these Tipperary men.
They were not the type to take
interference kindly.
John McCrae, however, was
not the kind of man to be put
upon. He’d come for gold, and
he wasn’t going to be deprived
of his chances. So he walked
on to one of the four claims
and told all who cared to listen
that he was staying there.
TTrouble boiled-up right away.
The Tipperary men told
McCrae to get off the claim
and stay off. He refused.
Someone or other —presum-
ably with some authority
ordered the men from Tip-
perary to leave the Mary-
borough goldfield. T hey
refused. Most emphatically.
John McCrae went to the
goldfield’s authorities, and was
told to go ahead and work his
claim.
Easy to give such a decision
. ... but to carry it out!
McCrae tramped back to the
claim he had “jumped” and
swung pick ipto soil. Immedi-
ately a vociferous mob of Tip-
perary men hurled down upon
him, armed with clubs and pick-
handles and rocklike fists.
John McCrae took a quick
look, and fled. He was a fair,
runner, and he pounded across
the slippery soil, falling, stag-
gering up, falling—always a
little ahead of his pursuers. But
his dash couldn’t last.
He came to bay near a gum-
tree, with shaking fingers drew
a revolver from his belt, and
fired. The bullet wounded a
man named Robinson.
While scarlet oozed from the
“Never mind the other fellow's symptoms, poor chap.
Let's hear about yours."
wound (which turned-out to be
slight) John McCrae had other
things to worry about. Work-
calloused and violent hands
seized him and conducted him
without ceremony to the tree.
There was a limb reason-
ably close to the ground, and
John McCrae watched with a
cold feeling round his heart as
a stout rope was thrown
towards this branch. At the
third throw the rope was over
the. limb and the end of it in
a burly man’s big paws. At
the other end a noose was
quickly formed . . .
But the drama was inter-
rupted before the climax. A
body of miners broke-in on the
party, rescued John McCrae,
and took him off to the police-
camp, where he was arrested on
a charge of wounding
Robinson.
Co the matter rested for the
moment. But more trouble
brewed-up during the dark
hours.
Men all over the Mary-
borough diggings talked long
and seriously at their campfires.
Next day no fewer than 3000
diggers gathered and avowed
their intention of showing the
Tipperary men some summary
law-and-order.
They made a formidable-
looking force ; many of them
had firearms. Others brandished
shovels, picks, threats.
I Forthwith they marched to
the claim which had started
the dispute, arrested the men
who were alleged to have
attacked McCrae, and hustled
them off to the police-camp.
There they presented their
prisoners and demanded that
McCrae be released.
Several witnesses were pro-
duced who swore that Mc-
Crae had fired at Robinson in
self-defence. The authorities
looked at the formidable body
of men, and hastily agreed to
release McCrae on bail. Cheers
soared from the mob, whica
began to trickle off towards that
part of the field known as Alma,
where most of the trouble had
taken place.
Then and there the whole
thing might have ended, but


QBa
helps the
Mcan-on-The-Land
safe
lISS 853 : -
%
/
€
\
<•♦' ',> ■*-..«i
This Bank’s knowledge of the problems of
the Man-on-the-Land enables it to help in a
practical way.
Xi
The Bank’s services and
friendly advice are available
to customers who seek
them.
As the Bank has a Savings
Bank subsidiary, the one
office provides all the bank-
ing facilities required by the
whole family.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
INCORPORATED IN NEW SOOTH WALES
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
(DEPOSITS GUARANTEED BY THE PARENT COMPANY]
INCORPORATED IN NEW SOOTH WALES
for the fact that feelings were
still running high against the
rumbunctious men from Tip-
perary. Their fellow-irishmen
were particularly wroth ; they
felt that the good name of
Ireland had been smirched.
The rumors that blew-up
didn’t help matters in the least.
It was said that the “Tips” were
massing for a murderous attack
. . . that they had actually
exchanged blows with other
forces.
was some truth in the
rumors. The Tipperary
men had built-up their forces
by fresh arrivals from other
fields.
Then one or two little
incidents helped to lift
emotions to sparking-point.
The “Tips,” for example,
chased a luckless man, who
took refuge in a store con-
ducted by a Mr. Penkethy.
The men from Tipperary
boiled into the store and
demanded the man. But Pen-
kethy was no meek biscuit-
vendor. He pulled himself up
straight and told the intruders
that the man would be staying
in his store until the mob
dispersed. Sulphurous words
and brimstone looks didn't
make him alter his decision,
and the “Tips” withdrew,
announcing that they would
shoot anybody who tried to
enter it. It is not recorded
whether anyone tried to run
their gauntlet.
By this time men all through
the sprawling goldfield were
walking like cats in glue and
wondering when the opposing
force would pop round the
nearest gumtree and blaze
away.
I
r T~'HE “Allies,” as they called
themselves —that is, all
those who were opposed to the
“Tips”—began to drill military-
fashion. Two-thousand of them
were at manoeuvres when a
valiant “Tip” tried to bail them
up. For his trouble he collected
two bullets —arm and thigh.
This incident should have
set-off a neat little civil war,
but for some reason the tinder
failed to catch.
The authorities spent a lot
of their nervous energy in
worrying ; lights burned late in
the police-camp. Away in
Melbourne both police and
soldiers were warned to be
ready for departure to Mary-
borough at short notice. Police-
reinforcements had already
been sent from nearby towns.
The miners by this time had
welded themselves into an
organisation called the Mutual
Protection Society (presumably
the men from Tipperary didn’t
have a chance of gaining
membership). This society
received the approval of both
the Commissioner in charge of
the field and the Chief Com-
missioner in Melbourne, though
with the proviso that this
approval would continue only
if matters were legally con-
ducted.
The hours and the days
swung past, and the men of
the M.P.S. marched in the chill
winds back and forth, back and
forth. And still the enemy
didn’t come.
nPHERE are no clear reports as
to what the men from
Tipperary did at this time. For
all we know they might have
got quietly about their gold-
digging business. But Rumor
was busy. One report was that
500 “Tips” had assembled,
were well armed, and looked
like making an attack at any
moment. The opposing forces
put so much credence in this
furphy that they stood to arms
through two Arctic-cold nights.
That experience made them
a little less enthusiastic. Tension
dispersed. Diggers delved for
gold without the fear that they
would soon be fighting for their
lives.
But the affair wasn't entirely
finished. John McCrae was
brought to trial on the charge
of wounding Robinson. No
one came forward to give
evidence against him. Then 15
men from Tipperary were haled
into the dock to face trial on
a charge of assaulting McCrae.
No witnesses for the prosecu-
tion came forward.
Peace reigned in Mary-
borough.


A Reserve Price Needed to Combat the Wool Cartel
WOOL-FUTURES
By P. R. ROGERS
From his criticism of an earlier article
of mine it would appear that, like
many other people in the industry,
Mr. Weatherly, chairman of the
Australian Woolgrowers’ Council, does
not have a complete understanding of
how the wool-futures market operates to
the great detriment of Australian wool-
growers. It does so because the inter-
national cartel uses futures-markets for
a purpose for which they were never
intended. The practice is for the cartel
to sell, after every Australian auction-
series, wool-futures below spot auction-
prices, thus destroying confidence in
current auction-prices and forcing rates
lower than is justified, and then cabling
lower limits to their buyers. Under Mr.
Weatherly’s “free-auction system with no
reserve-price” (B. 6/8/’5B) Australian
growers have to accept these prices.
Evidence of this can easily be obtained
by writing to the Wool Bureau for the
prices at each series of auctions between
August, 1957, and June, 1958, and the
futures-prices a few days later; it will
be found that in each case the futures
were considerably lower than spot
auction-prices.
How It Works
Woolgrowers would be better off if
there were no futures-markets, but
those in Antwerp and Roubaix have been
operating since 1888 ; the one in New
York was opened in 1931 and the one
in London in April, 1953. There is also
a greasy-wool futures-market in New
York which began in 1941 and which
plays an important part in the hedging
of the American domestic-clip by the
merchants who buy it. These markets
are legal, each contract on the London
market being guaranteed by the London
Produce Clearing House, a very large
organisation with tremendous financial
assets. The London futures-market is
now the largest of its kind, and consider-
able use is made of it, legitimately, by
Bradford interests. These “futures” are
good commercial contracts, valid and
enforceable in all States of the Common-
wealth. All this should be widely known,
yet 1 have asked over a hundred wool-
growers, some of them in a big way,
if they are aware how the wool-futures
markets operate in London, New York,
Antwerp and Roubaix. In every instance
the answer has been “No.” Most have
admitted they have “never heard of
’em.”
More than half the Australian clip is
sold by “forward selling,” not through
the “free auction-market with no reserve-
price” favored by Mr. Weatherly and by
Minister for Primary Industry McMahon,
who said recently, “A floor-price schemfe
for wool would not be beneficial because
it would give the manufacturers of syn-
thetics an enormous advantage by letting
them know in advance what the price
of wool would be.” My troubles about
letting them know! That doesn’t matter
two hoots so long as the reserve-price
carries a fair margin of profit instead
of,.as today, being below cost of produc-
tion as established by the Bureau of
Agricultural Economics.
“Futures” as Insurance
A/Tr. Weatherly discounts Clive Hall’s
remarks on the use of futures-
markets as a woolgrower’s means of
insurance. He apparently misses the
point that a grower adopting this prac-
tice would (and could) only do so when
prices were high. Futures-markets are
not delivery-markets. Less than two per
cent, of contracts traded-in are actually
delivered. The futures-market deals in
promises; a seller sells a promise to
deliver 50001 b. weight of Merino-tops at
a fixed price in a given month. A buyer
buys a promise to take delivery of 50001 b.
weight of Merino-tops at a fixed price
in a given month. When a woolgrower
sells a contract of 50001 b. he sells a
promise to deliver ; to obviate delivery
he ultimately buys a contract or promise
to take delivery in the same month.
Although the price may be different, one
promise cancels out the other, the differ-
ence in price being his profit or loss on
the deal.
The unit of contract on the futures-
market is 50001 b. weight of 64’s B-Tops,
and it has been established that it is
basically the price of Merino wool clean
on the floor in Australia that governs
the price of futures. This unit of con-
tract represents approximately 40 bales
of a grower's greasy clip ; he sells as
many units as will cover his estimated
clip.
If a woolgrower had considered in
August, 1957, when sales opened at an
average price of £lOO a bale, that this
was a pretty good price and he wished
to make sure that he would get that
price when his wool was sold in, say,
March-April, 1958, he could have made
certain of getting it by selling “futures”
forward in August for delivery March-
April, 1958, at the equivalent of £lOO a
baie. Then, when his wool was sold
in March-April at £6O a bale (free-
auction system with no reserve-price), he
could have cabled London and bought
back his futures-contracts at approxi-
mately £6O a bale, giving him a profit
of £4O a bale on the futures, .plus the
£6O a bale he received at free-auction,
making his desired price of £lOO a bale.
There is no point in comparing the
wool industry with dairying, poultry-
farming or wheatgrowing. Wool is under-
produced. The main argument used by
studmasters who want the embargo on
the export of Merino-rams lifted is that
this could help the world to produce more
and better wool. With this I entirely
agree. The percentages of textiles used
to clothe the world’s population are
approximately: cotton, 70 p.c.; wool,
12 p.c.; rayon, 14 p.c.; all other syn-
thetics, 4 p.c. Until the synthetics people
produce something better than wool there
will be more than sufficient demand to
take care of the 12 p.c. of wool —if
properly advertised at reasonable prices.
I agree with Mr. Weatherly that wool
is not receiving enough support from the
woollen industry in Australia. Plenty
of women prefer wool to the newer
synthetics, but at the present price of
manufactured woollens, wool is a luxury
and they can’t afford to buy it. When
wool went up to about £lBO a bale
seven or eight years ago manufacturers
raised their prices to the sky. They
haven’t brought ’em down much since,
although wool is now only about one-
third of the price.
Why Prices Fell
Tn my opinion the recession in America
and competition from synthetics:
account for, at the outside, only £5O
million of the drop in wool-prices since
August, 1957 ; the other £lOO million
has been due solely to the “bear” opera-
tions of the cartel. The cartel was too
shrewd to operate prior to March, 1951,
because the market had not had free
access to wool for many years and it
knew the demand would be tremendous.
The high prices received in 1951-52 were
the worst thing that ever happened to
wool. Most of the money went in taxa-
tion, and synthetics were given a great
boost. But when the cartel started again
it reduced the price by one-half.
If Mr. Weatherly and Mr. McMahon
believe that no wool-cartel operates, they
should ask themselves who has been
selling wool-futures so consistently after
each auction-series in the past year, and
then cabling lower limits to their buyers,
with the result that prices have declined
from £lOO to £6O a bale.
I have no doubt that both Mr.
Weatherly and Mr. McMahon sincerely
believe that the free-auction system with
no reserve-price is the best way to sell
our wool. I hate Government control
as much as Mr. Weatherly does, but I
would rather have the necessary mini-
mum amount of control to establish a
reserve-price plan and so defeat the
operations of the cartel and ensure the
grower a reasonable profit on production
than have prices stay for ever below cost
of production. Australia’s whole
economy depends largely on something
being done to prevent the cartel from
operating indefinitely.


start the dau riqht!
*
ill
'M
Of
cHO6«
*V
vine
a6^
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND ITS
RED MILL RUM.
A.J.C, Racing
Maybe the happiest man on
Randwick’s opening day of the
spring carnival was A.J.C. com-
mitteeman Brian Crowley. He
owns and bred Skyline, run-
away winner of the £lO,OOO
Derby (net £7710) in race-
record time, 2.28 f. Skyline is
by Star Kingdom (imp.) from
Flight’s Daughter.
Skyline defeated the Mel-
bourne colt (and short-priced
favorite) Sir Blink, with Prince
Kerdieil (suffering from an
abscess in the mouth) third.
The well-fanced Bold Pilot was
a distant sixth. Evidently Bold
Pilot can’t stay, though the
T. J. Smith stable trained the
gelding specially for the classic.
Skyline now goes to Mel-
bourne for the Victoria Derby.
■There was talk after the Rand-
wick classic that Sir Blink
might turn the tables on the
Sydney colt in the V.R.C. blue
•riband, but on his Randwick
display Skyline seems bound to
again make it difficult for his
pursuers at Flemington.
Sir Blink has 7.5 in the Mel-
bourne Cup, in which Skyline
has automatically advanced
from 7.4 to 7.6 (weight for
age) following his A.J.C. Derby
victory.
Chief Gaekwar hadn’t the
bolter’s chance of securing
other than third-money (£200)
in the Colin Stephen Stakes.
As a five-year-old he carried
9.5 under the w.-f.-a. condi-
tions, while Prince Darius, the
winner, had 9st. and Caranna
(second) had 9.6. Chief Gaek-
war would receive about 2st.
from those horses under handi-
cap conditions, yet many super-
optimists nibbled at the 100
to 1 offered against the out-
sider. They should have spent
the afternoon at the movies or
the sailing-races. The books
for some time quoted both
Prince Darius and Caranna at
10 to 9 on.
Front Cover (comparative
outsider) beat favorite Fine
And Dandy in the Breeders’
Plate, with Travel Boy third—
winner and runner-up both
trained at Randwick by Harry
Plant. Fine And Dandy, how-
ever, looked a good thing
beaten. He ran wide in the
straight. Front Cover is by
Bold Buccaneer (imp.) from
Gaby Deslys by Agincourt
(imp.) from Helensbrook by
Limond (imp.), and cost
1700gns. as a yearling at the
Randwick sales last
One of his best-known rela-
tives, Gold Rod, won many
races both in handicaps and
at w.f.a., his wins including
an Epsom and a Doncaster.
Chipperfield figures in the
first-acceptance list for the Mel-
bourne Cup (November 4) on
6.13, and on latest form —three
successive wins in restricted
“ Tut-tut , Worthington. That's the elephant-gun!”
events —the three-year-old colt
might improve sufficiently to
be a Cup chance. His best
performance so far was to win
Saturday’s Trial Stakes (10
furlongs), beating a smart field
in fair time. Anyway, owner
R. A. C. Willis and trainer
Fred Allsop were so impressed
by the colt’s performance that
he’s been sent to Melbourne,
where he's expected to be in
the line-up for the rich Caul-
field Guineas next Saturday.
He’s one of Sydney’s most
improved gallopers, and, as he
has a staying background, he
could have Cup prospects with
such a light weight. Chipper-
field is by Tembu (imp.) from
Bethaven (imp.) from Mazarin
from Sorceress by Colombo,
and at 300gns. as a yearling has
proved a bargain buy.
• • « •
When weights appeared for
the A.J.C. Epsom Handicap
and the two Cups one horse
considered by connections and
others to have the worst of
the deal was Turkestan. His
form had been poor for some
months, though in the spring
of last year he had won the
Rosehill Cup and had run
prominently in other import-
ant events. The A.J.C. handi-
capper gave him Bst. in the
Epsom, and his Caulfield and
Melbourne Cup weight was
8.6. That seemed out of pro-
portion considering his form,
and he was taken from both
Melbourne events ; he remains
in the Moonee Valley Cup, but
he may not be a runner. This
season, after weights came out
for the big races, Turkestan
won over 10 furlongs at Rand-
wick on August 4, then was
twice beaten at Rosehill.
Trainer Gordon Brown
decided to give the four-year-
old a let-up for about a month,
then prepare him for spring
racing, with the happy result
that on Saturday he won the
Epsom, worth £4377, and was
backed on the course from
33 to 1 to 15’s. Thus, as so
often happens, the handicapper
was vindicated. Brown gives
his horses a searching prepara-
tion for big races and knows
what’s required: he won the
1955 Doncaster with Fire Dust
and two Metropolitans with
Murray Stream (1945 and
1947). Turkestan beat Huntly
and Caesar in the Epsom.
Yeman’s easy Rosehill win
on September 20 from Monte
Carlo and Eudare pointed to
the plodding New Zealander
being a real show in the A.J.C.
Squatters’ Handicap. As it
turned out, in a field of five
he finished a remote third, 14
lengths behind Forest Stream,
who staged a quick form-
reversal. Forest Stream had
failed when favorite at each of
his two prior outings, at Rose-
hill and Randwick, following
a surprise win at Warwick
Farm late in August. He was
the outsider in the field of five
for Saturday’s race, but the
finish might have been closer
had the riders of Lord
Cortauld, Dare Say and Yemari
not allowed the pacemaker,
Sication (second), and Forest
Stream to get a big break in
the middle stages of the 10
furlongs. The crowd didn’t
like it at all.
• • * •>
The long-established £3OOO
Craven Plate will be the star
attraction at Randwick today
(Wednesday). Great names in
its list of winners include Phar
Lap, Gloaming, Wolaroi,
Greenstead, Beauford, Wind-
bag, Limerick, Amounis, Chat-
ham, Peter Pan, Flight, High
Caste and, more recently,
Prince Cortauld and Hydrogen.
Some of these champions won
the Craven three times, among
them Phar Lap, who in 1931
ran the 10 furlongs in the then
fast time of 2.2}.
Randwick trainer Reg Cook
won a double with Golden
Orb and My Peter at the
Canterbury midweek fixture.
Reg’s brother Bill rode My
Peter and was given a Mel-
bourne Cup reception—it was
his first winner after the best
part of a year from the saddle
following an accident in which
he broke a leg. Reg owns both
winners in partnership with
G. H. Elliott. Golden Orb is
by Wellmead (imp.) from Pro-
found by Valiant Chief and is
a half-brother to Diamond
Vista, also trained by Cook.
Though Aggressive had done
all prior racing in New Zealand,
hadn’t sported silk for several
months, and wasn’t selected by
any newspaper to win the Third
Maiden at the midweek Canter-
bury meeting he was an even-
money favorite when the
betting opened. Now raced by


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
{lncorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £81,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia: F. H. Egerton,
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Manager for Auitralia.
Missing Friends
SKINNER, Arthur and Margaret—son
and daughter of JAMES SKINNER, late
of Auburn, Shopkeeper.—WlLL they or
any person knowing their whereabouts
please contact the undersigned re
estate late HENRY SKINNER otherwise
inheritance may lapse ? —STEPHEN
JAQUES & STEPHEN, Solicitors, 40
Miller Street, North Sydney.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN FRANCIS CLARK late of
26 College Street Sydney in the State
of New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE
that EDNA JEAN CLARK has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3437 of 1958
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 12th of December 1958
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MICHELL GEE
WILSON & CLAPIN, Solicitors, of 92
Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO IVAN PAVLIUK late of 5 Applebee
Street St. Peters.—TAKE NOTICE that
OLGA PAVLIUK has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3449 of 1958 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
and is asking the exercise of the Court’s
discretion in her favour under S. 19 (2)
(a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1899 If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 13th November 1958 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. L. B. FEENEY
& CO., Solicitors, of 16 Barrack Street.
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Sir Sydney and Lady Snow and
trained at Randwick by Frank
Dalton, Aggressive won bril-
liantly. He’s a three-year-old
by Faux Tirage (imp.) from
First Round by Nightly.
* *
Caulfield Coming Up
The racing spotlight switches
next Saturday to Caulfield,
where the V.A.T.C. will stage
the first day’s programme of
its three-day Cup carnival.
During the meeting the club
will distribute close to £50,000
stakemoney.
Feature races on Saturday
will be the Caulfield Guineas
(5000 gns.), the £3OOO mile
Toorak Handicap, and the
mile-and-a-half Herbert Power
Handicap (£2000).
The mile of the Caulfield
Guineas is invariably run at
a sizzling pace, and the record-
book shows that the winner
usually develops into . a
champion. In recent years, the
roll of winners includes Ajax,
High Caste, Lawrence, Royal
Gem and Attley (who fought-
out a memorable dead-heat),
Hydrogen and Caranna, and,
of course, last year the great
Tulloch. Fillies find the
Guineas a hard race to win—
Midilli in 1920 was the last
to score. That emphasises the
task Wiggle faces to win next
Saturday, but nevertheless the
speedy Rego filly is here
fancied to prove the exception
to the rule.
• • • •
For the Guineas: Wiggle, 1 ;
Skyline, 2 ; Niello, 3.
The South Australian stayer
Auteuil, brought to Melbourne
for the Cups, went out favorite
in the 13-furlongs Stand
Handicap at Flemington on
Saturday, but finished well
down the running. Most of
the field were Cup aspirants,
but only optimistic owners
would give any of them a real
chance in the Cups. The four-
year-old MacArthur gelding
Mac won by any number of
lengths—and he was beaten in
a country handicap a few days
before. If only because he
gets into the race with the
featherweight of 6.12, Mac has
earned a run in the Caulfield
Cup.
The field in the Turnbull
Stakes (a £2OOO w.-f.-a. race
over a mile-and-a-half) was
only a handicap bunch —a
fair class of handicappers, but
still a long way short of w.-f.-a.
class. So it was no surprise
to see Pandie Sun win. Now
a six-year-old entire, the son
of Valognes has been a good
money-spinner on each of his
trips to Melbourne from South
Australia. In 1956 he won the
Moonee Valley Cup, figured in
the famous Hotham Handicap
triple dead-heat, and won the
Olympic Year Cup. Last
season he won the Herbert
Power Handicap and was
placed in the Melbourne Cup.
He beat that good mare Push-
over effortlessly in the Turn-
bull Stakes, and must be
reckoned a fair chance in the
Cups again this season.
Westralian mare Dawdie did
not run up to her previous
good form, and South Aus-
tralian Newstone ran a dismal
last.
• • • •
Dusty Light, winner of the
first heat of the 10-furlongs
October Handicap for three-
year-olds, is a black colt by
Lighthouse 11, sire of Sailor’s
Guide. He shares this attri-
bute with the champion—he
does his best under all condi-
tions. After he scored a first-
up sprint win in August this
page suggested that it would
be surprising if Dusty Light
did not go on to score in
better company and over mole
ground. His connections were
so delighted with his success
in the October Handicap that
they have determined to give
the colt a run in the Victoria
Derby. “Sailor,” of course,
won the 1955 Derby. Dusty
Light, who has won three
times and been placed twice
from his last five runs, may
find the Derby a bit classy for
him—but he will run an honest
race,
• • • •
Portent for Wiggle’s success
later in the day was Snow-
flower’s win in the Mari-
byrnong Trial Stakes for fillies,
first two-year-old event of the
season in Melbourne. Snow-
flower is by Rego, sire of
Wiggle, from Snow Queen, and
was bred by Rego’s owner, C.
Powell, at the Brooklyn Stud,
Aberdeen (N.S.W.).
• • •
Bookmakers and punters
alike were convinced that the
second heat of the Mari-
byrnong Trial for colts and
geldings would prove little
more than an exercise-gallop
for Sir Lorrient, outstanding
colt in the two-year-old trials.
However, Sir Lorrient came up
against a particularly good
youngster who had not been
produced in the trials, and
finished a distant second to
Sartorial Splendour. The win-
ner is likely to be the best
colt in Victoria, at least during
the early spring racing. He
is a Newtown Wonder-Fashion
youngster, trained at Fleming-
ton by Pat Burke, brother of
Phil, who prepared Snow-
flower, winner of the fillies’
section.
Oddest feature of Wiggle’s
six-lengths win in the mile
Edward Manifold Stakes was
that bookmakers gave odds
against the brilliant Rego filly.
Had the event been a handi-
cap, Wiggle would have con-
ceded at least a stone to her
nearest rival. At level weights,
her success looked a foregone
conclusion, especially as Vic-
toria’s best filly, But Beautiful,
was not fit to run. Victorian
jockey Teddy Preston had one
of the easiest rides in his long
career on Wiggle; the filly
jumped out in front at barrier-
rise, and Preston’s only respon-
sibility was to hold her back
within sighting distance of the
rest of the field in the run
along the straight.
“P.0.M.C.”: Bill Williamson’s
plea to the Rosehill stewards that
he thought he was doing the right
thing by an owner or trainer to
force his way through a field, pro-
vided “I don’t take the place-money
away from a horse,” was novel if
unwise. However, the fact that
crack Sydney jockeys have as often
run into trouble in Melbourne as
have Melbourne hoops in Sydney
suggests the cause may lie in the
opposite direction of running races.
Riders from Brisbane (right-
handed) rarely run into harm on-
Sydney tracks (or vice versa), while
Adelaide and Melbourne (left-
handed) hoops as seldom strike
bother when riding in each other’s
domains. But the records for 50
years are full of examples of jockeys
making punishable mistakes when
riding in the direction opposite to
that to which they were trained.
* * *
Some features of the spring
issue of “Thoroughbreds” (top-
notch horse-value for five-bob):
Cover-picture, Grey Ghost (“the
type of horse likely to do well up
to middle distances”); records,
breeding and photos of Sailor’s
Guide, Tulloch, Straight Draw,
Timor, Man of Iron, and Wiggle;
editors John Schofield and Lyell
Pratt respectively on “Studs in
Western N.S.W.” and “Carbine and
Trenton Compared”; “Cardigan”
on Melbourne Cup chances; “The
Baron” on jumping horses; C. L.
Stopford on S.A. racing; Jack
Greathead on racing in Queensland;
“Artilleryman” on Westralian top-
liners ; a guide to yearling values;
and a look, also, at racing and
breeding abroad.
Another rattling good package of
horse-lore, No. 9 of the Blood-
horse Breeders’ Association’s
“Statistical Abstract,” which rather
abstract title covers the customary
most expert listing of sires and dams
and their winners of last season —•
indispensable to everyone with a
close interest in racing or breeding.
Address, 20 Martin Place, Sydney;
secretary, A. W. Dexter.
* * *
Trots
Victorian owner H. E.
Taylor asked stewards at
Harold Park on Friday night
to swab Bendigold after the
running of the Second Quali-
fying Stakes. Winner of 11
out of 16 races in Victoria,


BALD PATCHES
Hair grown secret formula
Sacred Eastern Oils. Barely
falls. Treats Alopecia. Leading
broadcaster’s hair grown after
years of Baldness. Effective
treatment for dandruff (Basic
cause of nearly all hair sick-
ness), and stops falling hair.
My herbal treatment restores
grey hair to original colour.
Not a dye—not Injurious, not
obvious. Names given of lead-
ing citizens (with their per-
mission) who gratefully testify.
My treatment used in privacy
of your home.
For free advice write—
MRS: A. EASTON,
Box 5204, G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE
THE HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY
H
11
5... Right in the
Business Centre
You’ll find the utmost in comfort
and convenience at The Hotel
Metropole. Conveniently situated
right in the heart of Sydney’s “West
End,” the Hotel Metropole is handy
to transport, offices and Sydney’s
smartest shops and theatres. Enjoy
superb, relaxed comfort at the Hotel
Metropole on your next trip to
Sydney. Over 400 rooms, 85. with
private bathroom; luxurious ultra-
modern suites; friendly, efficient
room-service, day and night; superb
cellar and cuisine; magnificently
appointed dining room and six
banquet rooms —yes, the Hotel
Metropole is truly THE place to
stay in Sydney!
THE HOTEL METROPOLE
Australia’s Most
Friendly Hotel
B 0522. Box 1601, G.P.O.
Bendigold started favorite at
5 to 4. Breaking after about
six furlongs, he was roundly
hooted when he failed to get
going properly again and
finished a distant last. G. L.
Brown, driver of Wynnefield
Squire, got a severe reprimand
for allowing that horse to shift
ground too quickly, causing
Bendigold to be checked. A
stewards’ inquiry into the run-
ning of Bendigold was
adjourned to a later date.
• • • •
Stewards suspended driver
N. Darling for a month after
an inquiry into interference in
the Three - year - old Stakes.
They found that he had
allowed second - favorite
Bourndawin to shift ground
too quickly. The race was won
by Finucane, Victorian stable-
mate of Bendigold. He won
comfortably by three lengths
from Westgate and Todman.
Stewards also suspended W.
Picken for a month for caus-
ing interference to favorite
Blue Goose in the Rozelle
Handicap, won by 'Night
Reveller from Flingo and
Quamby Grande. As well,
they fined driver L. Blackwell
£lO after an inquiry into inter-
ference in the Glebe Handi-
cap, won by Real Value, who
came home strongly under the
whip to beat Silver Return by
a neck, with Dingle Bay a
half-head away third.
Melbourne pacer First Divi-
sion qualified for the £5OOO
Spring Cup (run at Harold
Park on October 25) by win-
ning the Harold Park Handi-
cap. Racing to the lead early,
he went on to an impressive
win from the scratch-mark.
Champion mare Sibelia, the
only one backed with any con-
fidence to beat First Division,
started from 48yds. behind
and did very well to finish a
close sixth.
Other Sports
This is the time all over Aus-
tralia for schoolboy athletic
sports-days, and the boys every-
where have been showing
they’re well up to their dads’
standard, if not better than it.
In Sydney on Saturday two
big schools-meetings were held.
Among a lot of good efforts, the
100yds. was won in 9.Bsec. at
each—by Don Bursill, of Scots,
at the All Schools carnival; by
Michael Cleary, of Waverley
Christian Brothers, at the Asso-
ciated Schools championships.
Each also won his respective
220yds. event.
* * *
Herb EHiott, after five weeks
or more thinking about it, has
turned down the fabulous offer
made to him to turn pro-
fessional. It was a lot of
money ; but Elliott has prob-
ably done the right thing, by
himself as w'ell as by Austra-
lian athletics, by staying an
amateur. He should have a
big athletic future yet ahead
of him.
* « *
This year’s U.S. Davis Cup
team includes only one member
of last year’s lot, Barry Mac-
Kay, who beat Cooper in five
sets in the last challenge-round
singles last year. Senior mem-
ber of the side is Ham Richard-
son. The others are teenagers
Chris Crawford, who beat
Cooper recently in the Pacific
South-west titles, and Earl
Bucholz, and Peruvian Alex
Olmedo, who might well rank
in time with those other fine
South Americans Segura and
Ayala.
For the first year since The
Americans have been coming
here after Sedgman, McGregor
and Bromwich had won back
the Cup in 1950, the American
team will be without grand
sportsman, determined oppo-
nent and 1953 Wimbledon
winner Vic Seixas. Great
player as he was, Seixas was
in only one winning Cup team
(1954). Not one of the Ameri-
cans —not even Richardson —
has won a major singles-title,
and on paper Australia should
easily hold the Cup—though
sporting events don’t neces-
sarily work-out in practice as
they do in theory.
* * *
Two Soccer finals: At Bull!
last Wednesday night Balgownie
retained the Association’s Syd-
ney Cup when it beat Joe
Marston’s Leichhardt 4-0. Ati
Wallsend on Sunday Cessnock
won the State premiership when
it gave Leichhardt another
drubbing, 4-2.
Williamstown won the 1958
V.F.A. premiership when it
comfortably defeated last
year’s premiers, Moorabbin,
13.18-8.16, at St. Kilda.
Moorabbin had beaten
Williamstown 13.13-8.21 in the
second semi-final. A replay of
the grand-final had been neces-
sary, the first “grand” finishing
in an exciting 6.15-7,9 draw.
It’s ’Town’s sixth premiership
since 1945, including three in a
row (1954-55-56).
* * *
Port Adelaide full-forward
Rex Johns missed 10 games
this season, but still headed the
S.A.N.F.L. goalkicking - list.
Two months after having had
a cartilage removed from his
left knee,- Johns returned to
League-football on Aug. 23 to
kick 11 goals against Sturt. In
the grand-final he kicked four
goals, to make his tally 55;
Wright, of West, who kicked
three in the grand-final, finished
second with 52.
• • • •
“Atala”: Towards the end
of last season Johns was hurt,
and his replacement, Neil
Hawke, kicked a post-war
record 15 goals against .South,
and followed it with 9.4 against
Norwood, in which game Johns,
fit again, failed at centre-half-
forward. Johns was then made
19th-man, but in the last minor-
round game was brought on at
threequarter-time after Hawke
had been badly beaten. Johns
has been an automatic choice
since* Incidentally, Hawke later
went to Perth'and has been
playing well this season at
centre-half-forward for East
Perth. His success there enabled
Ted Kilmurray to be made a
ruck-rover, and had a lot to
do with Kilmurray’s improved
play and subsequent winning
of the 1958 Sandover Medal.
• • • «
“Wilkie”: After scraping into
the Westralian League-foot-
ball final-four by beating
Subiaco in the last qualifying
round, Perth upset the experts
by beating West Perth in the
first semi-final. Twelve of the
14 “big names” interviewed by
a large daily tipped West to
win. West’s ruck was expected
to prove too powerful for
Perth. However, Perth’s ruck
—led by deceptively casual-
looking Reg (“Sleepy”) Zeuner,
who was best man on the
ground—carried the day.
* * *
“Spoke”: One of Australia’s
best road- and track-cyclists,
Hec Sutherland, will return to
his favorite sport this summer
after “wintering” as a foot-
baller with Hastings in the
Mornington Peninsula League.
Sutherland won the 1954 “Sun”
tour of Victoria and, as one of
the limit men, has always been
well up with -the leaders in
most road and track classics of
recent years.
* * *
Last week’s stoush: In Syd-
ney American middleweight A 1
Williams, with a weight advan-
tage, battered former Australian
welter champion Harry Grogan
to a seventh-round t.k.o. defeat;
Grogan, who’s been out of the
ring for some time, was game
but outclassed. In Melbourne,
in a willing 12-rounder, South
African welter Johnny Van
Rensburg very easily outpointed
Italian champion Bruno
Visintin, who in 1956, on an
earlier visit to Australia, had
beaten George Barnes on
points. In London, Empire
heavyweight champion Brian
London defeated Willie Pas-
trano, of the U.S.A., the world’s
third-ranking heavyweight, the
ref. stopping the fight in the
fifth Pastrano and his
manager disagreeing heartily
with his decision.


ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
ft
Offices:
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.S. CHINA POLICY
TVritish press-comment on
" Uncle Sam’s stand over the
“offshore islands” is, to say the
least, highly conflicting. In
fact, as the following sampling
indicates, editorial opinion is
as “hopelessly divided” as,
suggests London “Time and
Tide,” is the Western Alliance,
“both on principles and tactics”
in the Far East:
Edinburgh “Scotsman” :
“Peace now appears to .depend
on Chinese realism and modera-
tion in practice. They will not
reduce their claims nor abandon
their right to use what force
they please in their own terri-
tory, or their rejection of
any U.S. claim to have a say
in China. But they may, to
avoid a war in which they
would be the immediate
sufferers, stop the bombardment
of Quemoy. In that event, the
occasion should be taken for
a complete revision of U.S.
policy in the area. To achieve
that, strong pressure from
allies as well as from U.S.
opinion will be needed.”
* * *
London “Observer”: “It is
widely believed that the United
A FINNISH COMMENT—FROM HELSINKI “SANOMAT.”
States is in fact ready to tell
General Chiang Kai-shek to
withdraw from the islands—
not at once but over a period
—in return for a promise by
the Chinese Communists that
they will not use force against
Formosa and the Pescadores.
“But is this a fair
offer? If the Chinese Com-
munists are to promise that
they will not use force against
Formosa, then the United
vStates must make it clear that
the Chinese Nationalists have
no right to use force against
the mainland. They can do
this only by withdrawing their
present recognition of General
Chiang Kai-shek’s regime as
the legal Government of China.
This would not mean surrender-
ing Formosa to the Com-
munists. (The right solution
for Formosa is to place it under
the United Nations for a
number of years, until the
people can decide for them-
selves.) But it would be proof
• the only convincing proof
—that the United States would
never support General Chiang
Kai-shek in an attack on
China.”
« • • •
The same: “At present the
United States position is
wholly illogical. They de-
nounce as aggression any
attempts by the Chinese Com-
munists to occupy territory
which even the British Govern-
ment has admitted to belong to
China, yet they are bound to
consider an attack by General
Chiang Kai-shek on the main-
land as the legitimate act of a
lawful Government against
rebels. They urge the virtues of
negotiation, while refusing to
recognise the Peking Govern-
ment. They praise the United
Nations, while doing their
utmost to keep China out of it.
Such perversity is unworthy of
a great nation.”
* * *
London “Economist”: “While
there is plenty of argument [in
the U.S.] about the offshore
islands, there is very little about
the need to protect Formosa
itself. Only Mr. Walter Lipp-
mann, brooding on his solitary
peak of logic, declares roundly
that it is nonsense to believe
that General Chiang Kai-shek
is the real Government of
China, and says that the
‘entangling alliance’ with him is
endangering the United States.
Mr. Dean Acheson, the Demo-
cratic ex-Secretary of State,
claims that as late as 1950 the
Defence Department ruled that
Formosa was expendable. In
fact, what the department said
was that, with the forces then
available to the United States,
Formosa came hopelessly low
on the list of priorities. Now
that Communist China’s mili-
tary strength has grown so
hugely, few Americans find
themselves able to challenge the
concept that it must be con-
tained by a chain of islaiyd
bases, including Formosa, in
the western Pacific. Those who
are appalled by the dilemma
into which the Nationalists
have led them over Quemoy
are thus in the awkward posi-
tion of wanting General Chiang
Kai-shek’s island without
General Chiang Kai-shek's
policy.”
• • • •
The same: “The real core
of complaint against the China
policy of the United States is
that it is contradictory. It is
entirely reasonable for Presi-
dent Eisenhower to say to the
Chinese Communists now that,
if they try to take Quemoy by
storm, they will be resisted;
but that, if they will really look
again for a solution by nego-
tiation, the Americans will sit
down with them again. This is
surely the policy that America’s
allies should support whole-
heartedly by every diplo-
matic means; and quite
certainly this is not the
moment for Britain to dis-
sociate itself publicly from its
indispensable American ally.
Both sides must be willing and
able to negotiate. Whether the
Communists are now ready
to do so has to be. seen. But
the difficulty of the Americans
in negotiating is that, while they
can quite properly ask the
Chinese to renounce the use of
force to obtain their territorial
objectives, they can do so fairly
only if they are themselves will-
ing to renounce the use of
force to obtain the territorial
objective of General Chiang
Kai-shek which is no less
than the reconquest of China,
with Formosa and the offshore
islands as springboards. The
crippling contradiction in
American policy is this com-
mitment to General Chiang
Kai-shek, not only in Formosa
but in China as well.
“For the Americans it is a
very real, indeed a cruel,
dilemma. And for their allies,
if they are honest, the dilemma
is no less. Quite certainly it is
not a dilemma that can be
simply and pharisaically
resolved by disowning the
Americans. Britain can never
contract out of the alliance;
we cannot really say, anywhere
in the world, that we have no
commitment to the United
States.
“Britain cannot wash its
hands. It is the more important
to make the British voice heard
—but in the right places and in
the right way. The first and
most obvious thing to do —
and the Leader of the Opposi-
tion might help in this —is to
tell the Government of China
that, if it does go to war over


First mortgage debenture stock
SHORT TERM
0
0
PER ANNUM
12 months 5%
9 ... ■ 4|%
6 .. . 4%
3• • •
LONG TERM
n.
PER ANNUM
S-IO years 7%
4 .. . 6|%
3 . • > 6%
2 , 5|%
GENERAL CREDITS LIMITED offers first mortgage
debenture stock on long or short term basis. Cumulative
stock carrying 6i% compounded on yearly rests with
currencies of 5 to 15 years.
Interest is paid quarterly free
of exchange.
Investors wishing to withdraw
earlier than the specified
term may do so in accordance
with the conditions described
in the prospectus.
PROSPECTUS:
Bankers are the Commercial
Bank of Australia Limited, from
whom the prospectus is avail-
able and from Members of the
Stock Exchange and Company
Offices at Corner Pitt & Goulburn
Streets, Sydney. Phone: MA 8276.
BROKERS: J. B. WERE & SON
This is not a prospectus and does not constitute
an invitation to subscribe
10372/N.
Quemoy, it will in fact have
no atom of support or sym-
pathy here [from Britain]. The
second is to express no less
straightly to the Americans
our [Britain’s] hope and belief
that neither they nor their
Nationalist satellites will make
war, or, if fighting is forced
upon them, that they will on no
account extend it. The third
and most constructive contri-
bution is to do all we can to
help in breaking the diplomatic
deadlock. Here, again, we
must address ourselves to the
Government of China as well
as to the Government of the
United States. No beginning
can be made unless both the
mainland and the offshore
Chinese will sheathe the sword.
“If both conquest and recon-
quest could be forsworn, there
is at least the possibility, with
the aid perhaps and under the
auspices of the United Nations,
of a real truce,: with the off-
shore islands de-fused and
linked again with the main-
land ; with Formosa frozen
locally for a future settlement
according to the wishes of its
people ; with a halt called, at
nearly the twelfth hour, to
warmongering ; and so with the
possible conditions at last for a
general recognition of the fact,
and the world status, of the
Government of China. Perhaps
the chances of such a truce are
not great. It calls for un-
common restraint from the
Communist Chinese (though
patience has always been a
Chinese virtue). It calls for
harsh decisions by the
Americans and bitter (though
inevitable) disappointment for
their Nationalist allies. It in-
volves considerable risks. But
at least it offers great practical
advantages to both sides in the
parleys; and to the world it
could offer the chance of peace
instead of war.
“For Britain it adds-up to a
programme of ‘All Aid Short
of War,’ instead of mere
curmudgeonliness, to the United
States. The slogan is, of course,
an American coinage from the
first phase of the last world
war ; and it is given an urgency
for us now by the fact that,
if outright war does come in
the Far East, we can no more
stand aloof from our American
friends than they could then
when the chips were down.”
* * 9
London “Sunday Times”:
“In the circumstances as they
existed, President Eisenhower
could have taken no other line
than he did about the defence
of Matsu and Quemoy. To
argue that the Nationalists had
been strategically rash to
commit so much of their forces
to these risky outposts, or the
United States Government
politically imprudent not to
relinquish interest in them when
things were quiet, is beside the
point now. The fact is that
three weeks ago Communist
China deliberately launched a
great artillery attack on the off-
shore islands accompanied by
fiery threats, after three years
of harmless quiescence ; thus
confronting the United States,
as allies of the Formosa regime,
with the choice between retreat-
ing in the face of force and
menaces, and standing fast at
the risk of a wider war.
“No one who recalls the
repeated lesson of history that
the appetite for military success
and territorial gain ‘grows by
what it feeds on’ will doubt
that Mr. Eisenhower was right
to stand fast. For the risk of
wider war would not have been
avoided by retreat, but only
postponed to reappear hideously
enlarged when Peking, flushed
with this success, attempted the
next coup. That the Chinese
Communists wanted a war with
the United States at this time,
even a local one, is most un-
likely, despite their disregard
for huge human casualties. That
they intended this to become
a world war which might
destroy mankind is , inconceiv ■
able. Mr. Khrushchev’s threats,
we may deduce, were designed
not to commit the U.S.S.R. to
world war, but to oblige the
United States to retreat for
fear of it.”
* * *
London “Doily Telegraph’’:
“Those who still picture the
American Government as hell-
bent on war, or wilfully insen-
sitive ' to the anxieties of its
allies, should read the speech
to the United Nations by Mr.
Dulles. He illuminated the true
quality of American aims, not
only in this one particular
trouble-spot but in the world
at large. ‘We can scarcely
accept the view,’ the Secretary
of State warned, ‘that nations
are entitled to seize territory
by force just because it is near
at hand.’ This shrewd thrust
should strike home not only in
Peking but in Moscow and
Cairo, too. It is as relevant to
Hungary, Jordan or the Sudan
as the off-shore islands.
“But the United States was
not presented to the inter-
national forum as concerned
only with guarding the world
against aggression. Mr. Dulles
reminded his audience that his
country had submitted many
and various plans for harness-
ing its wealth to the advantage
of mankind. Cold-war ten-
sions, artificially created and
maintained by Soviet and
Chinese expansionism, remain-
ed the principal obstacle to
speedy progress. The United
States stood ready, he went on,
to co-operate in the control of
outer space and the suspension
of tests, and in other more far-
reaching measures of disarma-
ment. Likewise, it was prepared
to see the vaunted principle
of self-determination put into
practice in Germany and
Eastern Europe. This last point
was well-aimed at the neutralist
bloc in Asia and Africa, who
cry so loudly for the freedom
of their own peoples, while
scarcely lifting a voice, let


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
/jm'Z
JACKSON 4
,O'SUI.UTVAN
o. PrYt.TD •
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
T YPOGR APHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPER'S, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
alone a finger, for their Euro-
pean brothers still under an
alien yoke.”
* * *
London “Time and Tide”:
“The newspapers, on the whole,
continue to blame Quemoy and
Matsu for their provocative
behavior in being shelled and
the Americans for helping to
feed the garrison. Elsewhere
these, same newspapers brought
horrifying reports that the iron
screws of Communist China are
being turned still tighter,
forcing individuals into the
mould, breaking-up family
loyalties, transforming the
whole community into a vast
army of disciplined -workers
which could very easily become
an army of disciplined and
dreadfully expendable soldiers.
“Some commentators have
said that Britain must not
annoy the Chinese for fear of
losing Hong Kong: others have
said that Britain must one day
hand over Hong Kong rather
than annoy the Chinese. There
is much pressure for increased
trade with China: there is no
appreciation of the fact that
America’s foreign policy still
has, perhaps naively, a moral-
istic basis. Least creditable of
all is the widely advanced
argument that because
America failed to help Britain
at the time of Suez, Britain
should now refuse to support
America in her own equivalent
crisis. The sum effect is of the
Western Alliance hopelessly
divided both on principles and
tactics, while the Communist
—London “Daily Mail”
ILLINGWORTH’S COMMENT ON THE U.K. GOVERN-
MENTS DECISION NOT TO HOLD AN EARLY ELECTION.
bloc has shown once more that
it knows exactly where it means
to go and how it means to get
there.” -
The same: “The human
probability is that the Chinese
are seeking to gain ground,
both political and physical,
without fighting: and the West
must try to hold ground
without fighting. This is neces-
sarily a nervous business. The
assault on our nerves must not
blind us, should indeed remind
us, of the blunt fact that the
Chinese Communists are our
enemies; that they have
actually fought against us in
Korea, Indo-China and Malaya
and have limitless ambitions
throughout South-east Asia.
Indeed, their political ambitions
are not even confined to Asia.
“Compared with the soli-
darity of the Communist bloc,
the Western Alliance seems a
very shaky apparatus indeed.
This is by no means wholly to
the West’s discredit, for it is
a weakness of freedom, and
flexibility sometimes has ad-
vantages denied to formal
rigidity: but it is dangerous.
If we have learned nothing
else in the 20th century,
we should have re-learned the
ancient lesson: how easy it
is for totalitarian States to
divide and rule —and how vul-
nerable democracies are to this
type of aggression.”
U.S. Auto Industry
The condition of the
American motor industry is
said to affect more-or-less
directly one out of every six
businesses in the U.S. and,
comments “New York Times,”
it is one of those key industries
“whose activities are so per-
vasive that their ability to pull
themselves out of the ditch can
frequently represent the
difference between a speedy
general recovery and a halt-
ing, stumbling recovery stretch-
ed out over several additional
months.”
Looking at the industry in
that light, the same paper adds
that “automobile sales at the
present time, according to a
current study by the National
Industrial Conference Board,
are running at a seasonably
adjusted annual rate of 4.6-
million, the lowest level touched
since 1952. Sales for 1957 were
not far under 6-million and
1955 boasts the all-time peak
of 7.2-million.
“The conference-board study
rejects the frequently heard
view that the 1958 slump in
sales represented, in the main,
customer dissatisfaction with
current car-styles. If that were
the case, it points out, the
decline should have been fairly
even throughout the country.
Actually the decline is closely
correlated, geographically, it
finds, with the state of un-
employment.
“While style may not be at
the root of the automobile
industry’s troubles, the board
concedes that it may have
played some part. For the
first time the small car is an
important factor in the market.
Closely identified with the
change of style-preference, no
doubt, is the fact that foreign-
car sales in U.S., which
accounted for only one-half of
1 per cent, of all registrations
in 1954, reached 7 per cent,
this year.”
France and Germany
Drawing attention to a “very
profound international altera-
tion which has gone almost
unnoticed” Franco-German
co-operation New York
“Herald Tribune” comments
that “a reconciliation between
nations that fought one another
in 1870, in 1914 and 1939 (to
go no farther back into the
troubled history of Europe)
was indeed an essential of
creating a new Europe after
the great holocaust that ended
in 1945”:
“Apart from ending a
source of friction that had
handicapped the creative
powers of the peoples of
Europe over generations, it was
necessary if Western Europe,
free Europe, was to make head-
way against the sullen tide of
Soviet aggression.
“With the goodwill and
earnest efforts of statesmen on
both sides of the Rhine —Dr.
Adenauer prominent among
the Germans; Jean Monnet,
Robert Schuman, Rene Pleven
among the French great


strides were made toward co-
operation. The Saar agreement,
iron and steel community, Nato
and the Common Market have
brought the two nations into
fruitful partnership. And now
General de Gaulle, whose voice
was often raised to preserve
French interests from being
too hastily or too completely
merged with those of its allies,
has reaffirmed the joint role
of the two countries in Euro-
pean and world affairs.”
To which “New York Times’’
adds: “Premier de Gaulle
appears to have dispelled the
fear that the new France he
seeks to create will be less eager
-London "daily Mirror"
“YOU’VE NEVER HAD IT SO GOOD...SO GOOD ... SO GOOD..."
(Vicky, on the news that Prime Minister Macmillan’s voice has been put on 50,000 records
for distribution at 2d. each.)
for European unification. He
.has urged France to ‘play a
part in the forefront of Euro-
pean reorganisation’ ever since
the last war ; and though he
would have preferred political
unification', first between a
stronger France and a rather
different Germany, he now
accepts the functional approach
to unification manifested in the
European Economic and
Atomic Communities to which
France is treaty-bound.
“In fact, though long an
exponent of absolute French
sovereignty. Premier de Gaulle
appears to be turning into a
federalist on a world scale. He
proposes a federal structure for
the French Union. He has
joined Chancellor Adenauer in
calling for ‘organised’ co-
operation among as many Euro-
pean States as possible, includ-
ing East European States now
under Soviet domination.
“Finally, in a message to the
World Parliament Association
meeting in Paris he has urged
all nations to unite under a
world Government within the
United Nations ‘or perish.’
The details and practical appli-
cation of these ideas must still
be spelled out, but Gaullist
France is obviously going to be
a loyal partner of the Western
world.”
The Comet 4
“Yorkshire Post” comment
on the flight by the Comet 4
from Hong Kong to Britain
(7925 miles) in 18 hours and
22 minutes —the aircraft left
Hong Kong at 7 a.m. local time
and landed at Hatfield, near
London, at 5.37 p.m. British
time:
“This record flight is a
triumph for all those concerned
with the design and manufac-
ture of the Comet 4. The air-
liner will come into regular
passenger-service later this year
on the Atlantic run, when it
will be in direct competition
with the American jet-airliner,
the Boeing 707. In fact, there
is at present a race between
Britain and the United States
to get the first jet-airliner into
service. When the two types
of jet are in regular service the
competition will become fierce.
The Boeing 707 has twice the
passenger - capacity of the
Comet 4: on an economy-class
flight it can carry 165 passen-
gers, whereas the Comet 4 will
carry 81. It is also slightly
faster.
“8.0.A.C. have ordered 19
Comet 4s to be used initially on
the Atlantic route. While they
are being used in competition
with the American airliners the
corporation must ensure that
the Comets attract sufficient
passenger-traffic to make them
economically worth while, and
this it can do by making the
Comet 4 the most comfortable
airliner on the route.
“But the real value of the
Comet 4 could well be on
Commonweath routes. 8.0.A.C.
have ordered 15 Boeing 7075,
and when these are delivered in
1960 the Comets will be taken
off the Atlantic routes and
transferred to Commonwealth
routes. It is on these routes
that the Comets will be able to
prove for the first time just
how economical they are ; for
it would be uneconomical to
use big jet-airliners on routes
where there are fewer passen-
gers to carry. The size of the
Comet 4is exactly right; and
because of its great speed it
will meet with very little com-
petition.”
Wool Prices
“Yorkshire Post” tearing a
strip off “a speaker in the Aus-
tralian House of Representa-
tives who alleged that wool-
prices are falling because buyers
are banding together to force
them down”:
“The fallacious impression
that world wool-prices can be
varied by the whim of buyers,
and that the latter can push the
market up or down at will is
an outmoded conception, but
it is still all too prevalent among
certain Australian politicians.
Criticisms of this kind are
frequently heard when the
market falls, and just as quickly
withdrawn when it rises.
“In fact, the buyer is no more
to be blamed for the one than
thanked for the other. Woo!,
as an article of almost
universal use, is sold in
an open market which is
traditionally responsive to
economic and commercial
influences the world over.
Buyers are merely reflecting
those trends, but cannot in
themselves influence them
The real reason why wooi-
prices have fallen in recent
months is not that buyers wish
to see lower prices but that the
world is using about 18 per
cent, less wool than at this time
a year ago, and that a con-
sequently reduced demand for
the commodity in the open
market has exercised its
inevitable effect on price.
“In six of the largest wool-
textile manufacturing countries
of the world, aggregate con-
sumption of wool fell from
897-million lb. (clean) in the
first half of last year to 786-
million lb. in the second six
months, a decline of 12+ per
cent. In the first six months of
this year it fell a further 5
per cent., to 747-million lb. If
there is any encouragement in
these figures, it lies in a slow-
ing-down of the rate of decline,
and it may be that the near
future will see a welcome turn
in the tide.
/‘Meanwhile, for Australian
politicians or anyone else to
rail at wool-importers and
allege doubtful commercial
practices with the supposed
object of unduly depressing the
price-level is to ignore in-
escapable economic facts which
are as commercially disturb-
ing to users as to producers of
wool, and are causing losses
here [Britain] as well as in
pastoral countries. Such views
are not to be found among
responsible leaders of the Aus-
tralian wool-industry.”
Censorship
From London “Time and
Tide”:
“British Customs officials
recently impounded a highly
respectable book. ‘I don't know
what sort of mind these
Yahoos have,’ said the indig-
nant author, ‘but I hope they
enjoyed the book. It is about
soil-erosion.’
“Alas, poor Customs officials.
But there is some excuse for
them. The book was called
Rape Round Our Coasts.”


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
The weather was ideal for the garden-
party given for 1500 guests by Archbishop
and Mrs. Woods at Bishopscourt, where
lush lawns, age-old gumtrees and trails
of early wistaria against the magnificent
old bluestone house made a delightful
setting. Guests included Parliamentary
and civic representatives, heads of the
services, clergy of the diocese and mem-
bers of synod and their wives. Mrs.
Woods chose a slim-skirted frock and
jacket of fine black w'ool and a small cap
of white faille leaves. Mrs. J. D. McKie
(who with Bishop McKie assisted in
receiving the guests) wore a watermelon-
pink wool coat, a floral silk frock and a
wide-brimmed white felt hat banded in
gold.
Mrs. Henry Bolte, who accompanied
the Premier, topped her navy jacket-suit
with a cap of white lily-of-the-valley.
Chief Justice Sir Edmund Herring, who
is also chancellor of the diocese, was
present with Lady Herring. Sir Charles
Lowe and Lady Lowe were there, and
among those seen chatting on the lawn
were Vice-Admiral Sir Roy Dowling and
Lady Dowling; the G.O.C. Southern
Command, Lieut.-General H. G. Edgar,
and Mrs. Edgar ; the Lord Mayor, Cr.
F. W. Thomas; Town Clerk F. H. Rogan
and Mrs. Rogan ; Mrs. Guy Bakewell,
her sister Mrs. Grant Pringle and her
niece Denise Pringle; Archbishop and
Mrs. J. J. Booth ; Mrs. W. K. Burnside ;
Dr. and Mrs. E. Cunningham Dax ; Sir
Clifden and Lady Eager ; Lady Currie ;
Mrs. Russell Clarke ; Lady Bruche ; Lady
White ; and Miss Ella Payne.
☆ ☆
France has sent her loveliest and most
tempting wares for display at the French
Fair, which was officially opened by
Labor Minister Harold Holt in the
Exhibition Building. There are classic
examples of Lalique and Baccarat crystal
exhibited .by Pierre Fornari ; superb
materials and laces ; and the perfumes
of Carven, Dior, Balmain, Lelong, Lan-
come and Schiaparelli are there in
wonderful array. For the gourmet (but
only to be looked at) there are cheeses,
snails and frogs’-legs, champagnes,
liqueurs and vintage-wines.
Visitors may even stroll in such famous
thoroughfares as the Boulevard Mont-
martre, the Rue Royale, Place de la Con-
corde, the Avenue de I’Opera, Rue de
Rivoli, Rue de la Paix and the Chapips-
Elysees. The French Fair altogether is
a delight to the eye, every article is
beautifully packed and displayed.
V V V
The French Ambassador, M. Renaud
Sivan and Madame Sivan, who came
from Canberra for the official opening
of the French Fair, were at Her Majesty’s
Theatre for the premiere of “Carmen.”
With her short black floral frock Madame
Sivan wore a mulberry-toned velvet coat.
They were in a party with M. Jean
Riviere and Mrs. Sydney Baillieu Myer,
whose host. and hostess were French
Chamber of Commerce President F. E.
Lampe and Mrs. Lampe. Also in the
audience were Sir Frank and Lady Tait,
Mr. and Mrs. Massey Burnside, Mr. and
Mrs. A. T. Smithers, Mrs. Rupert Downes
and her daughter Mrs. James Campbell,
Dr. and Mrs. R. Shatin, Mrs. Ronald
Marriott with her schoolboy son,
Stephen, and nephew, Michael Wright.
Talented actress Joan Thomas will have
the part of Pam in "Free As Air,” which
will have its Australian premiere at the
Princess Theatre next Saturday (October
11). This musical is by Julian Slade and
Dorothy Reynolds, who wrote “Salad
Days” Joan’s considerable experience on
the Australian stage includes seasons with
the Italian Opera and Gilbert and Sulli-
van companies, and on the Tivoli. A
contralto-championship winner at a City
of Sydney Eisteddfod, Joan now sings
mezzo-soprano.
Spring flowers decorated the sitting-
room of the Lady Mayoress, Mrs. F. W.
Thomas, at the Town Hall when she
gave an afternoon party for wives of
recently elected city councillors. The
hostess wore a long-sleeved black French-
wool frock and a small cap of white
organdie petals. The five new councillors’
wives introduced at the party were Mrs.
L. L. Smith, Mrs. W. J. Kilpatrick, Mrs.
P. Armstrong, Mrs. I. B. Rohrt and Mrs.
R. Talbot. Others at the party included
Mrs. F. H. Rogan (wife of the Town
Clerk), Mrs .Maurice Nathan, Mrs.
Bernard Evans, Mrs. Howard Norman,
Mrs. Douglas Cox, Mrs. Leo Curtis,
Mrs. Tony Luxton and Mrs. lan
Beaurepaire.
☆ ☆ ☆
No. 9 Darling Street, South Yarra,
beautifully decorated, was the setting for
the dinner-dance given by the Medical
Wives’ Auxiliary of Prince Henry’s Hos-
pital. Auxiliary president Mrs. Douglas
Donald, whose frock of hibiscus-pink
French-lace had the high Empire-
waistline outlined with a matching satin
sash and finished with a cluster of pink
roses, received the guests. She was
assisted by Mrs. Geoffrey Newman
Morris, who chose a frock of black faille.
Mrs. Jim Peters, secretary of the
auxiliary, wore a pale-gold taffeta frock
and a bouffant coat of olive-green taffeta.
Guests-of-honor were Mr. and Mrs.
W. K. Burnside (he is hon. treasurer of
the hospital). Mrs. Burnside (who is
chairman of the central council of
auxiliaries) wore a formal gown of white
satin printed in a brilliant flower-pattern.
Mrs. Emmet Spring was attractive in a
short black-lace frock studded with rhine-
stones. Mrs. Tom Crankshaw’s grey
faille frock had a balloon-skirt, which
was also a feature of Mrs. Alex Alder’s
peacock-green satins. Mrs. R. Worcester
wore a pink sheath-frock of faille printed
in a deeper-pink flower. Mrs. Robert
Kerr chose deep-midnight-blue satin.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Lily Ryan, who died in Melbourne
last week, was a Queenslander working
for Queensland who became one of Mel-
bourne’s best-known residents. She was
the widow of T. J. Ryan, Queensland
Premier from 1915 to 1919, and for 24
years—the last nine as Queensland Gov-
ernment representative—she was_ associ-
ated with the Queensland Tourist Bureau,
putting the Queensland warmth very
alluringly on the Melbourne map in
winters, long before the days of Surfers’
Paradise.
Mrs. Ryan went everywhere and knew
everyone in Melbourne ; she was a worker
for shows helping the assimilation of
New Australians, St. Vincent’s Hospital
(where she died) and the Red Cross, in
which she represented Queensland on the
Australian Council.
# J? #
The Royale Ballroom, setting for the
Bohemian Ball arranged by the Robin
Hood Committee to assist the Helping
Hand Association for Mentally Retarded
Children, was transformed to represent
a French fishing-village. A painted copy
of a French seascape formed the back-
drop ; fishing-nets were strung between
the pillars, with colored lights, painted
bottles and fish cut-outs caught in the
nets ; a boat and oars were “beached”
at one end of the ballroom ; and the
official tables were enclosed with ships’
rails, rope and ramps. During the
evening Fred Asmussen presented a
cheque for Mrs. Alston for £lOO from the
Myer Emporium, the proceeds of a
window-dressing competition held during
Millinery Week.


Six-hundred attended the ball. Mrs.
James Alston, president of the com-
mittee, with Joan Sutherland Smith, Mrs.
Graeme Laws and Ann Swallow, received
the official guests. They included Director
of Mental Hygiene Dr. Eric Cunningham
Dax and Mrs. Dax ; Mr. and Mrs. L. J.
Dooling; and Mrs. F. D. Brockhoff.
The president of the Helping Hand
Association, Mr. Frank Byrne, and Mrs.
Byrne brought a large party. Guests of
U.S. Consul William Bushwaller and Mrs.
Bushwaller included Lady Myer, Mr.
A 1 Long (he is the representative of
Pan-American Airways), Dr. and Mrs.
W. Braun, and Canadian Trade-Secretary
Stewart Hay and Mrs. Hay. Mrs.
Alston presented prizes to the winners
of the committee’s recent art-exhibition,
Mrs. Maurine Grose, of Ballarat, and
Mr. Laurence Hope. Their paintings,
and also those of 10 other competitors
which were highly commended, were
hung in the foyer.
SYDNEY
There are flowers everywhere in Sydney
this week, some in honor of the Waratah
Festival, some for the spring meeting at
Randwick and some just because it is
spring.
The flowers in the flower-beds and
flowers on the hats bloomed in color and
profusion at the opening day at Rand-
wick. The prettiest of the hats sported
pink roses, but those that received the
most attention were like outsize wigs
made of ruffled organdie and in pepper-
mint-candy colors.
As for the fashion-silhouette, there
were examples of the chemise (and a few
sacks), the trapeze, the lantern-skirt and,
notably, the Empire-line with its pretty
high waistline. The hardiest wore the
shoe with the pencil-heel and the pointed
toe, but, as they are seldom really com-
fortable, this represented a great sacrifice
to that cruel goddess, Fashion. Though
there were several fitted outfits to be
seen, it is clear that the soft, casual line
is now well established.
☆ ☆
The demonstration by the crowd after
the Squatters’ Handicap (an absurd race,
in which the two outsiders shot out in
front and left the three favored horses
plugging away in a separate race eight
lengths behind) made one realise that it
is generally only at the races that one
hears a spontaneous and heart-felt expres-
sion of emotion by Australians. Italians
will boo a wrong note from a prima
donna ; the French will hiss at a poor
play ; but Australians are very kind in
the concert-hall and will applaud the
poorest performer. Yet when a horse
and jockey let them down a mighty,
uninhibited “Boo!” sweeps over the
crowd.
V V #
The masses of azaleas and orchids
decorating the Commonwealth Bank were
noted with pleasure by the guests at the
afternoon-party given by Dr. H. C.
Coombs for the opening of the Waratah
Spring Festival Art Exhibition. Lady
Carrington, just back from a three-
months’ holiday in England, opened the
exhibition. She told an amusing story
about two inquiries made at Australia
House in London. One was, “Are there
any white people in Kalgoorlie?” and
the other, “What is the standard of the
ballet company' in Kalgoorlie?” Met at
this party Dr. and Mrs. Bateman, with
Mrs. Bateman’s sister, Mrs. Bing Moly-
neux, who has come up from Melbourne
for the christening of the new little son
of Peter and Nonna Willis. Also heard
from Mrs. Joyce Snelling that her new
grandson, the son of Mr. and Mrs. Kensit
Kelly, is to be called Edwin (Ned for
short, of course).
This is Jill Perryman, one of the two
girls in the Phillip Street Theatre’s new
reveue, “Bats.” Jill shows herself as a first-
class comedienne in this show, whether
she is being “a wow of a Frau” or a
bejewelled siren of Bondi Beach. In the
glamorous parts she is also a hit,
especially when she sings (wearing
stunning pink tights ) “The World is My
Ashtray ” (“and you might be my next
cigarette”). Jill was recently seen in the
leading role in “Can-Can,” and she cer-
tainly seems to be in the running for “the
girl most likely to succeed.” By the way,
she is the sister of Diana Perryman, who
is appearing in the Independent Theatre's
production of “Titus Andronicus.”
The Waratah Festival is now well on
its way. The first event was a parade
through King’s Cross featuring motor-
cars veteran, vintage and keen,
modern types. Hyde Park is bedecked
with flags and “hanging-gardens,” and
is to be the scene of much folk-dancing,
Scottish - dancing, band - playing and
merrymaking generally. The “Waratah
Princess” is to be chosen from the girls
eating their lunch in the park, and one
of her qualifications must be that her
foot must fit into a jewelled Cinderella-
shoe which has been specially made for
the occasion.
* * *
One of the most delightful duties of
the week was to take two girls (aged
eight and ten) to see the Royal Ballet’s
performance of “Coppelia” at the Empire
Theatre. There were a good number of
girls in the audience, some as a school-
group with their teachers, others with
aunts and grandmothers (doing their
auntly and grandmotherly duty). To
judge by the mighty tintinnabulation of
girlish voices during the intervals and
the hushed silence during the perfor-
mance, one would conclude that this
gay, pretty, story-book ballet was really
perfect for a youthful audience.
It was interesting to see that this
presentation of “Coppelia” is not dressed
in the usual pastel tones, white dresses
and pale-blue sashes, etc., but in warm,
dashing, lively colors, which give an
effect of great gaiety. The dancing was
vigorously applauded by the audience,
many of whom are probably themselves
learning dancing of one sort or another.
But perhaps the dancers made it all look
too effortless, for the eight-year-old
whispered, after seeing the ballerina per-
form an arabesque: “That’s not really
hard to do, you know. It just needs a
little practice.”
* * *
Someone said the other day that the
“Swan Lake” music will probably be
heading the hit-parades soon. It seems
to be everywhere. The Royal Ballet per-
formed it, all four acts, and having seen
Rowena Jackson one went back to see
Svetlana Beriosova. TV had it as theme-
music for “Girl of the Limberlost,” and
the Phillip Street Theatre has a com-
pletely batty interpretation of it.
☆ ☆ ☆
“Many housewives suffer from
arthritis,” said Miss Bloore at the Red
Cross Divisional Council meeting last
week, “but with a little help and a
properly designed kitchen' they can func-
tion very well, and so lose that sense
of dependence which is so soul-destroy-
ing.” She was discussing the Exhibition
of Aids for the Disabled which is to be
held in Anthony Hordern’s Art Gallery
from November 10 to 15 inclusive. At
this exhibition there will be shown the
equipment of a whole house to help the
disabled. In the kitchen there will be
a stove set at a level which can be safely
attended to from a wheelchair, a sink
with a space beneath into which a wheel-
chair can be pushed, a traymobile
scientifically designed to wheel the dishes
to the dining-room, and so on. The
whole emphasis on care for the disabled
at present is to help them to help them-
selves, and to make it possible for them
to be busy and independent.
9- # #
The 1958 Australasian Ballroom
Championships, to take place at the
Trocadero on Wednesday, October 15,
are creating great interest. Representa-
tives from every State will compete in
both the professional and the amateur
groups. There is to be modern, old-time,
Latin-American, formation and profes-
sional exhibition dancing. Chief interest
is in the amateur modern-dancing title,
with eight selected champion couples,
representing all States and New Zealand.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Offence Unknown
Having parked my car in
the same position as I had left
it on many previous occa-
sions without objection being
raised, I was surprised to find
a tiny sticker attached to the
window. It read: “City of
Melbourne: Parking Infringe-
ment Reported,” followed by
the date, the car’s registration-
number, and the serial-number
of the sticker. There was noth-
ing else —not even the report-
ing officer’s signature or
initials.
An alleged offender against
parking-regulations —or any
other legal prohibitions, for
that matter —is entitled to be
told precisely what constitutes
his offence, and it would have
been simple for the officer to
endorse the notification with
a brief statement. In due
course, I suppose, I shall learn
how I have offended. But that
may not be for weeks, perhaps
months, considering the volume
of work confronting the
council’s parking-inspectors. In
the meantime I may continue
to offend through sheer ignor-
ance and earn further penalties.
Another aspect is that of
rebuttal of parking-infringe-
ment charges. Inspection of
the site where I parked left me
quite in the dark. I may have
been too far from the kerb,
too close to an intersection, or
too close to a fire-plug. On
the other hand, my alleged
offence may have been some-
thing entirely different.
It may, of course, be City
Council policy to keep trans-
gressors in the dark as long
as possible, so that they may
continue in their transgressions
and thereby swell the coffers
of the council. It may also be
policy to keep an alleged
offender in ignorance until it
is too late for him, by checking
on his position and taking
measurements, to obtain evi-
dence proving that he was
within the law.
But all round it’s a pretty
poor show when a motorist
can’t learn from a glance at
his notice just why, at some un-
specified future time, he is going
to be called upon to pay for
his negligence or mistakes. —
Doynest (Vic.).
Mr. Pringle Sends His Love
It is always a little distasteful
to discover a streak of bad
manners in an otherwise like-
able person. That was my
first reaction to reading the
various reviews of Mr. J. M. D.
Pringle’s newly published book,
Australian Accent.
Assuming the daily reviewers
have been fair—even those from
newspapers outside the “Syd-
ney Morning Herald” team —
one is left with the impression
that Pringle came, took what
he could get and left van-
quished, returning to Britain
“Mother Warned me against you bodgies .”
to nurse a grudge and achieve
revenge through his publisher.
It isn’t so much what he
says about Australians
although these brief journalistic
forays followed by a volume of
generalisations are each year
becoming more obnoxious—
but the fact that Pringle was
quite a sociable bloke when he
W'as here and himself partook
of and enjoyed the booze and
bar conversation that he now
holds up as evidence of Anti-
podean boorishness.
My brief relationship with
him was the result of an inter-
change of fiery letters. We were
obviously at cross-purposes, and
as a result of a phone-call we
met at my club and had a most
enjoyable hour or so of con-
versation and beer.
Having settled the matter in
question, our talk veered to
literature.
Pringle being a “Manchester
Guardian” man before his
spell with London “Times,” I
was intrigued to learn that he
had not read C. E. Montague’s
Fiery Particles. I passed the
volume on to him, and it was
subsequently returned, a fact
that impressed me most deeply
when compared with my experi-
ence of lending books to some
local colleagues of the pen.
Apart from a further inter-
change of a letter or two, that
was the extent of my relation-
ship with Mr. Pringle, but I
formed the opinion then, con-
firmed in conversation with
rank-and-file friends on the
“Herald” staff, that he was
a good mixer and a man who
could not quite understand
some of the petty jealousies and
restrictions that occur in every-
day life on a Sydney daily. I
thought him a donnish type, but
never so donnish as his book
makes him appear to be.
He is entitled to his own
opinion of Australian women,
though we seem to get along
with them well enough. It
wasn’t very nice of him to make
it public, however, when so
many wives of his Australian
acquaintances made him wel-
come in their homes. It was
natural that he should find
us different from Londoners or
Oxford graduates, or even staff
men on the “Manchester
Guardian.” But there was no
need to write a book about it.
Many Australians visiting or
working in Britain are taken
aback at aspects of the local
character met with from time
to time—the lack of initiative,
innate conservatism, worship
of fetishes. And there are less
attractive aspects, such as race-
riots, publicly flaunted homo-
sexuality, business hypocrisy.
But the Australian —and Mr.
Pringle says he is not tolerant—-
does not hold these things to
be indicative of British life,
and certainly does not accept
British hospitality and; once
away from the place, write
scathing paragraphs designed to
hurt the people with whom he
has fraternised over a period of
years.
To get back to Pringle’s book,
many of his statements of
evidence are not only incorrect
but journalistically unforgive-
able. He says that those of us
with money buy “enormous”
American cars. An overwhelm-
ing majority of Australians, and
that includes the average
grazier whom Mr. Pringle
designates an “aristocrat,” buy
either British or Australian
motor-vehicles. A check on
statistics should have shown
this, even if his own observa-
tions did not do so.
He accuses us of showy
houses, but this, coming from
a visitor from a country where
the servant system is still in
sway, must get the horse-laugh
in a country where servants are
practically unknown.
Sydney’s women may or
may not walk badly, as Mr.
Pringle states, but they seem
to suit us, and many a Sydney
lass has won the heart of a
compatriot of Mr. Pringle. It
wasn’t a very gallant statement.
Maybe to a European such
as Mr. Pringle our girls do
“often seem shameless in their
pursuit of young men.” As an
Australian, and not a European,
I couldn’t say, but I do think
we are fortunate in not having
here the organised commercial
prostitution common to
London and other European
capitals.
Not very many of us will
quarrel with Mr. Pringle’s
opinion of our nouveau riche,


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF -NEW
SOUTH WALES— Ik Divorce.
TO RONALD BULLARD late of Baulk-
ham Hills.—TAKE NOTICE that ADELA
JOAN BULLARD has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3462 of 1958 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Registry Mint
Building -Macquarie Street Sydney by
the 12th day of December 1958 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from E. G. SAYEGH, Solicitor,
133 Pitt Street, Sydney—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
but are they so different from
the Yorkshire millionaires and
successful dealers-cwm-spivs of
Britain’s war-time and post-war
boom?
Possibly, it’s rather silly to
take Mr. Pringle so seriously,
but it becomes a little tiresome
to have so many English
literary exquisites vi.sit our
shores and go home to give
vent to their feelings of horror
at our beer-swilling, betting,
roughness and general earthy
approach to life.
There are well-read people
in Sydney, and there are people
who don’t read at all. The
same applies to London. There
are aspects of our so-called
society that stink, but the same
goes for London society, which,
being older, should know better.
But there is one thing about
Australians. We don’t seem to
visit another bloke’s home and
then retire to our fastness and
tear our late host to pieces m
words.— -Dick Turpin (N.S.W.).
Rain-making
1 agree with “Splodger’s”
facts (B. 10/9/ ’5B), but not
with the inferences he draws
from them. All our soils, not
only those of the inland,
become lifeless after an abnor-
mally wet season, and are in
great heart after a drought, but
that is only a partial recom-
pense for the loss and damage
caused by drought. In more
favored areas, such as the
Darling Downs, the lice and
worms that appear in the
outback after a very wet season
are everyday problems, but still
the Downs is miles ahead of
the Warrego in terms of pro-
duction per acre.
Every improvement brings
its problems; the old-time
nomad, tending his flocks and
herds as they wandered, did
not have to worry about
worms, milk-fever, soil-erosion
or declining fertility. All
these, and many other troubles,
have been caused directly by
improvements in our breeding
of stock and crops, our
machinery or our methods of
land-use, but the balance is
on the credit side. In turn,
these problems are mastered,
and the solution creates fresh
problems, but a net gain in
productivity.
In any case, “S.” need not
worry about any spectacular
increase in rainfall as a result
of C.5.1.R.0. experiments.
Rain can only be made when
suitable clouds are available,
and that is not often. A figure
of 25 per cent, has been men-
tioned as a possible improve-
ment. This could turn a bad
season into a fair one and a
fair one into a good one. Jt
could cut direct drought-losses
by from 50 to 80 per cent.
If, to get the full advantage,
we must alter our husbandry
methods or introduce new
pasture species, we will find out
how to do that, too. — Mao-
noon (Q.).
Communism in China
I’d like to add one thought
to the general discussion on
China the possibility of a
collapse of Communism
because of the pressure at which
it is being forced along. This
possibility is felt to be a real
one by Chinese friends of mine
here in Malaya and in Hong
Kong, and was recognised by
others who bloomed amongst
the recent hundred flowers, but
who have now withered. These
“Mind the step!”
people, conscious of the long
history of China, are not think-
ing of a few years ahead, but
of 50 or 100 years off. China
is used to the long view, and
has seen many ideas come and
pass.
At times of intense national
stress, as in war, a great leader
can whip-up enormous enthu-
siasm and tune public emotions
to such a pitch that great deeds
are the order of the day. There
is no need to look beyond
Churchill and war-time Britain
to see this. Nor is war neces-
sary—when a nation is aged
and jaded, and when the exist-
ing leadership is decadent or
effete, a man with an idea may
command reverence and sacri-
fice in his support. So did Mao
replace the corrupt and failing
Kuomintang regime in China.
There was intense and spon-
taneous acceptance of the
change, and while the intensity
may remain, the spontaneity
seems now very much a forced
growth. Like all Communist
regimes, the Chinese People’s
Government finds it necessary
to deaden public thinking with
collections of slogans and
catch-cries everything must,
for example, be “Red and
expert” and the classics are
being rewritten to bring them
into line. The Chinese press
daily reports in banner head-
lines the most recent progress
in “the big leap forward,”
frequently in some quite
nebulous concept such as
“Socialist reconstruction” or
“Socialist awareness.”
Mass - campaigns are
launched with unfailing regu-
larity—elimination of termites
in Canton and the four enemies
in Peking (rats, sparrows, flies
and mosquitoes) have all had
their turn lately. Birth-control,
once a “means of killing off the
Chinese people without shed-
ding blood,” is now the party-
line, exhorted and commanded
in posters and pamphlets
throughout the nation as
essential for the welfare of the
State.
Every day brings news from
the New China News Agency
of some such advance as
“30,000 Tientsin industrialists
and businessmen pledge to
surrender- their hearts,” or
“10,000 Shanghai democrats
parade carrying a giant heart
of red cloth and heart-
surrendering pledges.”
The pace is tremendous and
unrelenting, but it is doubtful
if emotionalism of this type
can produce lasting fervor. The
recent “posting” of about a
million young party-cadres
from the cities to work in the
fields, ostensibly welcomed by
its victims, probably gave them
a rather nasty jolt. There are
signs that the Communist
society has engendered in many
young Chinese a cynicism
similar to that found in youth
in other Communist countries.
The point of this is that
while fanaticism is a vital and
powerful force,, it is not a
lasting one, and when it is
not true fanaticism, but arti-
ficially stimulated, there is every
likelihood of cracks develop-
ing. The hierarchy of the
Chinese Communist Party may
be expected to guide any cracks
into desired channels, but the
possibility of losing control is
there. Many people think that
a new set of war-lords is ready
to succeed the present regime
in traditional Chinese fashion,
and should this happen there
will be much less need for the
West to concern itself with the
relative strengths of the East
Wind and the West Wind. —
K. L. W. (Malaya).
Torrens Tide
“N.A.8.” should have
looked a little further before
writing that the 100th anni-
versary of the Torrens Land
Act “slipped past with scarcely
a mention” (B. 13/8/’5B).
South Australia celebrated the
occasion by affixing a com-
memorative plaque to the
Lands Title Office in a cere-
mony performed by the
Lieutenant-Governor in the
presence of a large crowd. The
State Government also staged
a dinner attended by represen-
tative citizens of S.A., other
States and even the Philippines.
Nor can “N.A.8.” claim


Torrens to be “the originator
of the title.” Actually the
system of registration of titles
and its suggested application
to S.A. goes back to 1836,
when James Hurtle Fisher, first
Resident Commissioner in
S.A., issued a booklet in which
he outlined a system of regis-
tration similar in essentials to
that subsequently adopted.
Fisher went further and pre-
pared an Act to give legisla-
tive effect to his proposals, but
these met with official opposi-
tion, and 20 years were to
elapse before the State secured
its lands-titles legislation.
The change certainly “has
immeasurably aided lawyers”
in that it has made their work
easier, but the sustained objec-
tion to the legislation by the
legal profession when it was
introduced in S.A. led the
Government to provide for
transfers to be effected by land-
agents, thus depriving lawyers
of a valuable monopoly.—•
Collector (S.A.).
Butter Subsidy
“Wu Foo” (20/8/’5B) is
much too limited in his views
about supply and demand when
discussing our butter-price. In
the overall economic policy of
Australia, the law r of supply
and demand went out long ago
when the protectionist policy
for Australian secondary
Industries came in with its
tariff walls.
Surely “Wu Foo” should
know that, if secondary in-
dustries in Australia had to
compete unaided by tariffs
against overseas manufacturers,
the costs of dairyfarmers would
be very much lower, and their
products could be sold to better
advantage on export markets.
Apart from competition
within each particular industry,
Australia’s secondary industries
operate on a basis of Australian
costs; otherwise they cannot
survive and at the same time
maintain Australian standards
for those employed in them.
And it was because of increased
costs of production that butter-
price was raised by 2d. per lb.
Nor can “Wu Foo” expect
workers to have it both ways.
If they reduce living-costs by
replacing butter on their tables
with margarine, then inevitably
wages which are now based on
butter must be reduced in keep-
ing with the lower prices for
margarine.—R. H. Francis,
General Secretary, Queensland
Dairyman’s State Council.
“J.J.A.” questions my know-
ledge of dairying. Well, I
learned to milk 50 years ago
and passed my examination as
a milk-tester 35 years ago, and
could tell him quite a lot con-
cerning production - figures
from my experience in nine
different butter-factories in
Victoria and N.S.W.
His statement that a cow
should give 5001 b. butterfat
is ridiculous. The annual
report of a herd-testing associ-
ation in one of the best dairy-
ing districts of Victoria shows
that, of 43 dairy-herds, the
highest averaged 4711 b. butter-
fat, and only five averaged
over 3501 b. Of 2439 cows, only
27 produced 5001 b. The average
carrying-capacity in that district
is 60-80 cows to 100 acres. In
rare cases the best land goes
up to 110-115 per cent.
I don’t know what “J.J.A.”
means by “one-cow-to-the-acre
land should be turned over to
the sheep.” I know that 2501 b.
butterfat per acre is very high,
and a rise of £l2O per acre in
the price of that land means
that the whole profit of the
subsidy of 50s. per cwt. of
commercial butter goes to the
vendor of the land and not to
the purchaser now milking on
it.
“JJ. A.’s” statement that “land-
prices have been forced up by
severe competition for land”
proves my contention that
farmers compete for land at
exorbitant prices and then ask
for Government subsidy to pay
that price. Why the subsidy on
butter and not one for the
poultry-farmer or market-
gardener? Apparently because
the cow-cockies are a noisy
pressure-group with political
influence. — Murray Swagman
(S.A.).
Playford’s Problems
South Australian Premier
Sir Thomas Playford is in a
spot of bother—several spots
in fact. It would appear that
while he has been busy seeking
overseas industrialists as pay-
ing guests his domestic house-
keepers have been neglecting
their responsibilities.
His Auditor - General has
tabled his annual report in
Parliament and is not pleased
with much of the Govern-
ment’s activities. He is par-
ticularly concerned about Sir
Tom’s own pet hobby, the
elaborate Queen Elizabeth
Hospital at Woodville.
Estimated to cost £2\ million,
the project was built on a
fixed fee for the contractors,
with the Government supply-
ing all materials. The expendi-
ture is now close to £5 million,
and in regard to one section
now in operation, the A.-G.
says “the full cost is not ascer-
tainable from the departmental
records.” This is a big bill for
a 372-bed general hospital and
a 114-bed maternity wing.
The maternity section has
been open for 18 months.
It took 3.2 staff and £B2 per
week to care for each patient
—£63 for actual patient-main-
tenance and £l9 interest-
charges on “as much of the
cost as can be determined.”
Public-hospital costs in S.A.
have risen by 53 per cent, in
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 507
Across
I—Arouse the disorderly tribes in it. (6)
4 —Bite of the kangaroo on a perch. (8)
9 —How many birthdays the orchestra has had to
enswathe? (7)
10 —Disreputable she-cop who built a pyramid? (6)
12 —Stones love shown by colleagues. (5)
14—Rue the first, rue the second —rue the answer if you
like; your way is cleared with it. (4, 5)
16 —Couple in tow. (3)
17— China dropped in for a world-
esteemed Chinese refreshment. (3)
18 — Movement of the republican
larking near the Jewish
quarter. (9)
19 — Damaged divan grew in many a
house commanding a panorama
opinion worth 1000 bucks. (9)
20 — Penniless gesture of assent. (3)
21 — Where is the position of an
upright and two sloping lines —
you couldn’t see this, but for
this. (3)
22 Crooks of cowcatchers. (9)
23 — Mistakenly grips the starting-
price set-up—so shoot! (5)
25—Limb held with our chain-mail or
such-like. (6)
27 —The post-office’s abnormal gait
river in Africa —but I’m daddy at
heart. (7)
29 — Quietening direction to take a
case. (8)
30— Freshly stains a rare thing in
international affairs now. (6)
Down
1 — The saints are to receive curtseys
a little better off. (3, 2,3, 4)
2 Anne's upset by a purge. (5)
3 Girl like Beethoven’s 7th
Symphony. (3)
5 It is nothing to a Roman
Catholic whale. (3)
6 She and he carelessly have a
corresponding afterthought on
Henry’s knots. (11)
7 Yours Truly is to project Edward
set firmly in the ground. (9)
8 — Resembling gasolene, the favorite
is to stagger Eisenhower. (6-4)
11—Decoys seat the swine with the
nose broken. (5-7)
13 —Prominent double affliction aris-
ing from rich living. (8,3)
15 —Hails worry curiously in the
manner of a shaft from a
bow. (10)
17 —March feed could be bevelled. (9)
24 —Bounder takes my capacious
synonym. (5)
26 —One turn of a motor starting like
a cleric. (3)
28 —Gippslander’s address suggests
their is nothing in me. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 506


ON YOUR CHOICE OF
1000 ROUTES
BY THE FINEST, FASTEST AIRLINERS
around the world
Mmm
: -V:.--
m
A
m
■
m
ALL OVER THE WORLD
SOM
TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU
Wherever your destination, fly by
BOAC . . . the airline whose con-
venient, comprehensive route network
covers the globe ! BOAC offers you
the finest value in air travel the whole
wide world over — to 51 countries on
all 6 continents.
On all these world-wide routes, BOAC
takes great pride in its reputation for
passenger service. You fly by the
finest, fastest airliners in service to-day
. . . enjoy that particular blend of com-
fort, good food and personal attention
which makes experienced air travellers
unhesitatingly choose BOAC. Ask now
for full details of BOAC’s world - wide
routes and de-Luxe, First Class, Tourist
and Economy Class services !
Remember, it costs no more to fly by
BOAC.
Information and bookings from all leading Travel Agents,
Qantas Empire Airways Limited (BOAC General Agents for Australia).
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL, S.A.A. AND C.A.A.
A97/AU
the past four years, though
the daily bed-demand remained
static over this period.
Suburban community-hospitals
of up to 60-bed capacity have
satisfactorily catered for the
additional needs of a growing
population.
Most of Sir Tom’s other
departments are well in the
red. Railways, up £785,000,
had a deficit of £4f million. In
municipal transport the 10-
year conversion programme of
trams to buses is in its seventh
year. The Government has
paid £7y million in that period
and now finds over £3 million
is regarded as “lost” and is
to be written-off. Adelaide
commuters dislike the buses —
the roads can’t stand them at
all—and the loss of patronage
has accelerated to a disturbing
degree.
The Premier is now on the
mat on the oil-refinery busi-
ness. In persuading an oil-
company to build a plant at
Hallet’s Cove he introduced,
among other promises, a
preference-clause for the com-
pany’s products. The ancillary
demands will cost several mil-
lions, and in addition he pro-
poses to give all the State’s
fuel- and oil-orders, amount-
ing to 25 per cent, of the total
demand, to the company—all
other things being equal.
This has raised a howl from
the other big suppliers. They
say that when the refinery is in
operation they’ll buy their fuel-
oil and petrol from it in any
case. They consider it grossly
unfair for the company to get
it both ways—as producer and
retailer.
The Premier is not talking—
he never does on contentious
matters relating to his own
Administration. He used to
exasperate his supporters by
always making the Prices Com-
missioner announce price-rises
while he reserved the right
personally to announce price-
decreases.
Though his majority in the
House is slender, he is unlikely
to suffer any political reper-
cussions next March. He has
achieved much, is still popular
with the Liberal League and, of
course, is regarded by the
A.L.P. as the best Labor
Premier the State has ever had.
Nevertheless, his closest
friends are advising that he
curtail his globe-trotting and
industrial window-dressing for
a time, consolidate his gains
and have a good look at the
State outside the 25-mile radius
from his city, office. — Old
Opencut (S.A.).


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
SHEEP AT MELBOURNE ROYAL
By “DIDGEROO”
At Melbourne Royal Show
a record number of 1178
sheep, entered by 131 ex-
hibitors, displayed quality and
evenness. Most were in good
condition and were well pre-
sented, with “tails” notably
absent, except perhaps among
the large fields of Southdown
rams and Dorset Horn ewes.
Poll Dorsets, appearing for
the first time at a Melbourne
Royal, were represented by 36
entries from 16 breeders a
most impressive start that
brought them a lot of attention.
Most popular breeds were
the Dorset Horn, 254 entries
(229 last year); Border
Leicester, 198 (149); South-
down, 133 (145); Cheviot, 132
(130); Ryeland, 118 (160) and
Romney Marsh, 104 (50).
Melbourne lived up to its
reputation as the meeting-place
of inter-State champions ; con-
sequently competition was keen,
so prizeworthy sheep often
finished well down the line.
It was recently an-
nounced that new
markets for Australian
lamb and mutton will
be sough t overseas
particularly in
Eastern countries,
Greece, T urkey and
North America. A
greater demand for
Australian lamb and
mutton must create a
greater need to avoid
unnecessary loss of
lambs. One important
way to do this is to
mark and tail them
the bloodless Elastra-
tor w'ay.
Special features included:
0 The number of champions
from two-tooth classes.
0 The notable improvement in
the length of Southdowns
and the covering of Rye-
lands.
0 The comparatively few
champions that had had a
string of big successes.
0 The fact that two of the
best-known exhibitors in
their breeds—John Mc-
Intosh and Son Pty., Ltd.,
of \Merringum (Ryeland),
and W. J. Dawkins New-
bold, Ltd., of Gawler River,
S.A. (Dorset Horn)—each
scored championships
among the Poll Dorsets asi
well as being well to the
front in their other contests.
0 The remarkable improve-
ment in the champion
Border Leicester ewe ex-
hibited by G. R. Hall and
Son, of Niemur Bridge
(N.S.W.), which jumped
from sixth in its class last
year to win this year’s
rosette with a lamb at foot.
Awards
Dorset Horns led the parade
with an entry worthy of the
breed’s position in fat-lamb
producing. Rams were particu-
larly good, especially with
to the low-slung type,
and breadth of head and
muzzle, as well as in the loin.
After keen contest, a ram
paraded by A. Taylor, of Cudal
(N.S.W.), won the champion-
ship. This sire was particu-
larly nice in the head, and had
good length in keeping with its
low-set body. Conformation
and style forced K. G. Luke’s
(Romsey) shorn two-tooth into
the reserve position, although
N. G. Stewart, of Tatura, who
adjudicated, found it hard to
choose between it and another
shorn entry by W. J. Dawkins
Newbold, Ltd. W. S. Martin
and Sons, of Sandy Creek;
(S.A.), and W. and E. Roberts
Thompson, of Wynyard (Tas.),
were also x’Cell in the picture.
Ewes were not so impressive,
although some of the young-
sters showed well.
An entry by C. M. Hart
and Co., of Two Wells (S.A.),
took the championship from
K. G. Luke. The winner
showed nice fleshing and
balance, and paraded well.
Other breeders winning blue
ribbons included H. C. Yates
and Son, of Yerong Creek
(N.S.W.); A. G. and W. I. Hall,
of Romsey; K. Hawkins, of
Finley (N.S.W.); and G. B.
.Vanston, of Inglewood.
Wilson Beer and Sons, of
Nanneella, who did well at the
Sheepbreeders’ Show, did not
bring any Dorset Horns to the
Royal, but scored well with
Border Leicesters.
With the exception of one or
two Wimmera sheep that were
at a disadvantage because of
the very dry autumn, Border
Leicesters were not far from
the best they’ve ever been,
according to veteran breeders
E. Hayes (rams) and Geo.
Starritt (ewes), who made the
awards. Both the champion
ram, exhibited by Wilson Beer
and Sons, and reserve-cham-
pion, entered by G. F. E.
Hosking and Sons, of Kerang,
were in the aged class. The
former had both an excellent
carcass and an outstanding
fleece. G. R. Hall and Son
won the ewe championship,
with an entry which showed
good length and width and a
fleece of nice wool. Wilson
Beer and Sons won the group-
prize ; Errol Hewitt, from
Warracknabeal, won several
first-prizes ; Fred Hewitt, also
from Warracknabeal, made a
good showing; and C. J.
Cabbie, a novice from Tocum-
wal (N.S.W.), I. S. Weaver and
Sons, of Boort, and Mrs. M.
Jeffrey, of Ventnor, all did
well.
English Leicester champion-
ships were shared by three
competitors: lan Morrish, of
Kingston, the exhibitor of the
champion ram; Williamson
Brothers, of Carisbrook, who
won the ewe championship and
ram reserve-championship ; and
V. Smart, of Bordertown
(S.A.), who took the ewe
reserve - championship. The
outstanding young champion
ram beat an imported sire from
New Zealand. Both came from
the ly-to-2|-years class. The
two-tooth ewes, from which the
champion was drawn, were
probably the strongest class of
the breed.
Cheviots did just as well as
they’ve been doing the last
three or four years. The
22 exhibitors included several
Tasmanians. Quality was high,
but there was a variation in size
and type.
Choice of the champion ram
was perhaps surprising. From
the same stud as an older entry
which had many supporters,
this youngster was a bit on the
small side, but stylish and in
good condition. Its nice fleece
showed signs of a Gippsland
preparation. Show sheep from
this Spion Kop Stud (owned by
A. G. Saunders, at Kilmore
East) are trained to lead by
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(25/9/-58)
Rainfall is likely to be patchy, varying from light to
moderate, in southern Queensland during October. Apart
from moderate rain in the south-coast area during
November, good general rains are unlikely in the whole of
the State until December; and these rains will probably be
heaviest in southern Queensland.
In N.S.W. moderate rain may occur on parts of the
central and south coastal areas, and tablelands, south-west
slopes and central-west areas during October, but poor
elsewhere. Light to moderate rain, mainly below normal,
is likely in November, with good general rains in the whole
State during December. The coast and tablelands may
expect moderate rains in January, with general rains during
February.
In Victoria, the central and western divisions, Gipps-
land and the north-east may expect good rains in October,
although the Mallee and northern division may have only
light to moderate patchy rains. Similar rainfall is likely
during November, with general rains in December.
Good rains may be received in the agricultural areas
of South Australia during October, although the Murray
Valley will probably have only light to moderate patchy
rains, with poor rainfall in the upper-north and interior.
Rainfall may be poor in November, with general rains during
December.
Rainfall is likely to be poor in Western Australia
during October, apart from moderate rain on the coast
between Perth and Albany. Moderate rain is indicated in
the North Kimberleys during November, with good rains in
the Kimberleys, south-east and part of the south-west agri-
cultural areas during December.
LENNOX WALKER.


m
m
The Conway Stewart
29/6
No
15
at
35/
No
12
k
at
60/
No
76
at
OL Pen ivi til til
Vila rue ((ous
14 carat Kjol
Every Conway Stewart Pen is
fitted with a genuine
14 carat gold nib.
Every Conway Stewart Pen is
fully guaranteed.
Every Conway Stewart Pen is
excellent value.
Ask your Retailer
he knows.
The No. 85L
42 7 6
CONWAY STEWART & CO. LTD,, LONDON
being tethered to a wheel
mounted horizontally on an
axle. The reserve-championship
was won by Ivan C. Heazle-
wood, of Whitemore (Tas.).
Another Tasmanian, E. W.
Cresswell, of Oaks, entered the
stylish ewe champion, which
scored in an evenly contested
final from R. and K. Metherall's
(Toradin) entry. Bowkett
Brothers, of Romsey, won the
ram pen-class, and A. and W.
McCormack, of Traralgon
South, and John Lyne, Pow-
ranna (Tas.), also won classes.
Fleeces, carriage, fleshing and
heads all impressed Bob Alston,
of St. Germains, who judged
the Ryelands. He thought it
was the best exhibit of the
breed to appear in a Melbourne
Royal show-ring. The under-
l}-year ram which won the
championship for John Mc-
Intosh and Son Pty., Ltd.,
scored over Lilford’s (Merri-
gum) entry because of a better
fleece and outstanding head.
Mclntosh took both the main
ewe awards. The champion was
finer in the head and closer to
the ground than the reserve-
champion of the same age,
which was drawn from the pen-
class. Mrs. lan Blyth (of Rose-
bud), Judith Mayes (of Morn-
ington), Keith Drummond (of
Talgarno) and A. G. Watson
(of Kyabram) all won good
prizes.
Improved quality, especially
in length of carcass, made up
for slightly lower numbers
among the Southdowns and
impressed C. A. Denhert, of
Ballan, and R. L. Brunskill, of
Wagga (N.S.W.), who judged
the rams and ewes respectively.
Leading exhibitor was Jim Mc-
Intosh, of Nar Nar Goon,
whose stud won all major
awards except the male reserve-
championship, which went to
L. A. Hinton and Son, of Vite
Vite. The ewe champion
repeated last year’s win, and
the reserve-champion was
champion at the Sheepbreeders’
Show, both with lambs at foot.
The former held its position by
a slight advantage in length,
although both displayed excel-
lent fleshing and fleece charac-
teristics.
P. J. Webb, of Culcairn
(N.S.W.), won- all Shropshire
championship prizes against
keen and persistent competition
from E. W. Ham and Son, of
Goorambat, who have kept the
breed before the public for
several years. Both lots were
in excellent condition and had
been well prepared, said A. A.
Hill, of Mt. Gambier (S.A.),
who judged the class.
Suffolks, too, provided excel-
lent competition and some of
the best quality for years, with
welcome signs that legginess is
beginning to give way to lower-
set bodies. Both champions
were exhibited by Allen Day
and Sons, of Alma (S.A.), and
both reserve-champions by
Stanley Porter, of Orford.
Richard Shipp, of Kerang, and
N. A. Johnson, of Deniliquin
(N.S.W.), collected several
smaller prizes.
H. . A. Lindsay-Field, of
Healesville, exhibited a small
but interesting group of Hamp-
shire Down sheep, and J. J.
Christie, of Byaduk, again
showed Lincolns without
opposition. Most of his prize-
winners were aged sheep, but
the promising young ewe came
from the under-H-year pen-
class.
The Romney Marsh class
showed more evenness than it
had several years ago. Both
carcasses and coverings were as
good as have been seen from
this breed in Melbourne.
Championships were well dis-
tributed between Ivor Manton,
of Monegeeta (ram), Ron
Forsyth, of Moorabool (ewe),
and Howard Yelland and Co.,
of Newlyn (reserve ram and
ewe). Manton's stud con-
tinued its successes in ram-
sections by exhibiting a sire
with a good broad head and
good fleece ; it scored narrowly
from the Yelland entry. The
champion ewe also scored in
conformation, carcass and
fleece, but Yelland and Co.’s
reserve-champion pressed it
hard. W. S. Townsend, of
Burnie (Tas.), did well, and
L. T. Ross Anderson, of
Flinders Island, scored a win.
Jack Christie, of Mt. Eliza, had
good exhibits in several classes.
Poll Dorsets attracted a lot
of interest. There was variety
in type, covering and size, but
the breed showed special
promise and performance for
its comparative youth. The
champion ram was paraded by
H. L. Burrowes, of Geelong,
and probably has won more
prizes than any other of its
breed. W. J. Dawkins New-
bold, Ltd., entered the reserve-
champion ram and a specially
attractive champion ewe whose
length was a feature. Reserve-
champion female came from
John Mclntosh and Son Pty.,
Ltd.’s, stud. Rex Wilson, of
Howlong (N.S.W.), a pioneer
of the breed, was well up in
the placings. Most successful
of the other exhibitors were
J. S. Oxley (of Strangways),
F. R. Cooke (of Benalla) and
A. R. Russell (of Donald).
Although numbers were
lower and inter-State competi-
tion absent from the Corrie-
dales, quality was good and
competition keen. The chain-
pion ram was a massive animal
exhibited by A. E. and N. D.
Mclntosh, of Ellam, which had
just won the reserve-champion-
ship in Adelaide. B. P. Lavery
and Son’s (Melton South)
champion ewe won the Corrie-
dale fleece-championships in the
Melbourne 1956 Olympic
Show and in 1957 at Brisbane.
The ram was champion at
Shepparton this year. Both
reserve-championships were
won by J. T. Hamblin, of
Toolleen, who is a very promis-
ing exhibitor. Although they
did not win a championship,
R. H. R. Baker and Son, of
Baringhup, pushed the Wood
Park team to within one point
in the Guthrie Perpetual Cup
for the best aggregate.
Fleeces
With record entries from all
States and New Zealand, Mel-
bourne Royal Show fleece-
contests are probably the
keenest in the Commonwealth.
Champion fleece of the show
was a superfine entry by Stone-
leigh Estate, of Beaufort, which
scored 914- points out of 100,
losing only one point for
density and for weight. It
gained the maximum for true-
ness for type, length, soundness,
handle, color, character, even-
ness and yield,
Most successful exhibitor was
L . H Francis, o£ Linton. W. C.
Greaves and his son exhibited
the crossbred winning entry
(w c G is a councillor of the
. . . . . J . A ,
Royal Agricultural Society and
as been a supporter of fleece-
contests for many years). The
successful entry contained a
Predominance of Border
Leicester blood.
Most outstanding feature was
the three Polwarth fleeces from
one sheep exhibited by Noel
Dennis, of Warncoort. Each
won a prize, and judges were
amazed at the way in which the
older fleeces had held their
condition and color during
storage.
W- Leonard and Sons, of
Goondivvindi (Q.), won the


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
strong Merino class, and C. P.
Wohlers, of Sea Lake, was the
Young Farmer champion.
New Fbotrot
Treatment
“Jaygee”: With some foot-
rot treatments the paring-
av/ay of the hoof to expose
the rot without regard to bleed-
ing is part of the operation.
In fact, bleeding is considered
a good thing.
R. Keddich and J. Kennedy,
of Hayfield (Vic.), sponsors of
a new preparation known as
Stop-Rot, lay stress on not
causing the hoof to bleed by
cutting too deeply when
paring ; simply trim to expose
the rotten tissue. Stop-Rot
may then be applied as a paste,
and the sheep left on the board
until it has dried on the hoof.
Keddich and Kennedy claim
that Stop-Rot separates the
rotten tissue from the sound
and so destroys the footrot
germ. Also, that clean sheep
treated with Stop-Rot at inter-
vals of six months will remain
uncontaminated with the
disease, even though in contact
with infected sheep.
Eighteen months ago badly-
infected sheep in the Western
District were tested, and the
results have been astonishing.
The formula of the prepara-
tion was brought to Australia
from India, where it was used
successfully to cure thrush in
horses.
Preventing Bloat
“W.C.Q.”: Bloat in cattle
is brought-on by overeating or
by eating legumes too quickly.
If the cows are put on grass
for a while before being put
on the richer feed, or are fed
“An this end's the honey mo on-suite!"
some silage, hay or grain, they
won’t bolt the greenstuff down
on an empty stomach.
Wet feed is especially bad,
because the cows swallow it
without much saliva, so there’s
no deterrent to the gas which
always forms during digestion.
Normally a cow belches this
out, but a load of food in the
belly can prevent its escape. If
on top of a bellyful of food
the cow has a good drink of
water the result will be bad
bloating. The cow should have
water before her feed, not
immediately after.
Don’t let her go down if bloat
starts. One good way of
getting her to belch the gas is
a bit in the mouth ; another is
to slip a rubber hose, well
greased, down her throat into
the stomach (though this some-
times may get blocked with
food and not let out the gas).
If it works, an antiferment
drench can be poured down the
pipe to prevent the trouble re-
developing, but lift her fore-
part to relieve heart- and lung-
strain before giving the medi-
cine.
Another way to prevent fresh
gassing-up is to keep the
affected side wet by spraying
frequently with a cold-water
hose. (Fun for the kids.)
The trocar and cannula must
only be used as a last resort.
Insert the instrument at the top
of the bloat and let it remain
until the big lump of food has
been digested and normal
exhalation of gas is under way.
Campaspe Project
The Eppalock Advancement
League considers K. G.
Schoeffel’s article (B. 20/8 / ’5B)
inaccurate and possibly mis-
leading. Evidence from officers
of the Victorian State Rivers
and Water Supply Commission
has shown that the average
flows of the Campaspe River
are ample for the construction
of a large dam at Eppalock to
serve an extensive and very
fertile district from Goornong
to Rochester.
It was encouraging to learn
that the Ross brothers, of Mia
Mia, near Heathcote, are try-
ing to control erosion by
means of the Keyline and
Pittman techniques ; but they
are not the first in the field.
The Kemp brothers, at Heath-
cote, have for many years led
the attack on erosion in this
area, and achieved noteworthy
success with contour-furrowing
and pasture-improvement. It
is a pity that, despite the urg-
ings of the Soil Conservation
Board, other farmers have
been so unwilling to follow
their lead.
Pittman - Keyline pasture-
improvements in this low 20in.-
rainfall area will have a
negligible effect on the flow of
the Campaspe River. Th©
catchment-area of the Cam-
paspe above Eppalock com-!
prises 710 square-miles, and
the qyerage rainfall is 27in.,
rising to 40in.
The largest size proposed
for the Eppalock Dam is
325,000 acre-feet. (This would
make the dam the largest Vic-
torian country storage outside
the Eildon and Murray River
systems.) Even with a dam of
this capacity only 68 per cent.;
of the average flow of the
Campaspe would be stored;
the remaining 32 per cent,
would run over the spillway.
In 1948 the Parliamentary
Public Works Committee, of
which Premier H. E. Bolte was
a member, recommended a
200,000 - acre - feet dam at
Eppalock, which would con-
serve only 54 per cent, of the
river-flow.
It can therefore be seen that
erosion-control near Heathcote
in the lowest-rainfall portion
of the Campaspe catchment
offers no threat to the filling


MIS
Circular Charts for all types
of Recording Instruments
♦or any class of Machinery
or Equipment
METER CHARTS a Specialty
accuracy GUARANTEED
*\am& O’SULLI V/VN % l u
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week.
of the proposed Eppalock
Dam.
Edmund J. Kennedy.
Secretary, the Eppalock
Advancement League.
Horse Lore
“R.R.D.”: Potties Horse
Dictionary 6th Edition, com-
piled by Blue Cross Veterinary
Products (Hicks Smith and
Sons), is intended for the use
of stock-owners and breeders
living in remote districts where
veterinary aid is not available.
It gives the essentials of
animal-management in health
and sickness, is well indexed
and well illustrated.
In place of the diagrams
showing the life-cycles of the
bot-fly and different types of
worms, more practical illus-
trations might be the cross-
section of the hoof in dia-
grammatic form and an exten-
sion of the present good one
on types of shoes (it doesn’t
go far enough, in my opinion).
After all, it’s lameness which
causes most everyday trouble
in horses, and over 50 per cent,
of lameness is due to some
condition of the hoof and can
be cured by farriery.
A handy book, of a size to
slip into the pocket, this dic-
tionary should be welcomed
by all who have to deal with
horses.
Mechanical Steer
“Cowman”: British scientists
have created a mechanical steer,
says London “Reynolds News,”
quoting the scientists’ opinion
that their steer is more efficient
than Nature’s version.
It’s operating at Rothamsted
Experimental Station, Hert-
fordshire, under the supervision
of biochemistry - department
head N. W. Pirie, and may
point the way Jo better food
for millions of Asians.
The idea is to produce the
proteins humans need for a
healthy diet direct from grass,
leaves and other greenstuffs.
The newspaper- says:
“Human beings are unable to
digest grass. That is why it is
fed to animals, who convert it
into highly concentrated protein
in the form of steaks, chops,
eggs, etc.
“But we get out of animals
only a tenth or twentieth of the
food they eat. The Rothamsted
‘steer’ extracts five times more
protein from plants than we get
from animals. It smashes up
the greenstuffs to produce a
juice which, on heating, turns
solid.”
Calf-rearing
“Acres”: The recent price-
reduction in butterfat makes
the cost of herd-replacements
more important than ever.
The farmer who rears his
own calves gains replacements
at the lowest cost, with the
added advantage that he knows
their history.
Apart from selecting calves
from the top producers of the
herd, there are these things to
watch if you want success in
calf-rearing: Rear the healthiest
animal possible; reduce the
amount of milk required (and
thereby the cost); make the
fullest possible use of pasture,
and minimise the labor
required.
Research in New Zealand
and Australia has proved that
it is better to leave a calf with
its mother for the first 48
hours to ensure that it gets the
colostrum. Then starve the
calf completely for the next
24 hours, so that it will learn
to drink quickly from the
bucket. Whole milk should
then be fed at the rate of 7 to
8 pints a day until the calf
is weaned at approximately
eight-weeks. Weaning on size
rather than age is good prac-
tice ; a Jersey calf with a chest
girth of 33in. to 34in. may
safely be weaned.
If milk-substitutes are used
in rearing calves, feed enough
substitute to equal the food-
value of whole milk. A little
over 141 b. of buttermilk-
powder is equal in food-value
to lgal. of 4.5 per cent, whole
milk.
The need for leafy, good-
quality pasture is important,
and from the age of two weeks
calves should be rotationally
grazed. If they are grazed on
the milking-pastures, graze
them ahead of the herd, not
after it.
Cheese Packaging
“Agricola”: The Queensland
Cheese Marketing Board
estimates that Australians are
eating over 141 b. more cheese
each year. They give much of
the credit to the new packaging.
Before plastic packs came
into favor, cheese was dis-
pensed in 51b. or 101 b. blocks,
or even 401 b. flats. The cheese
was dressed with a-cheesecloth
bandage which did little to
enhance its appearance, especi-
ally after it had travelled a
few hundred miles to the out-
back store.
Storekeepers found it diffi-
cult to handle. No matter how
carefully they cut the cheese
it would always crumble,
especially if matured (and that
was the kind that sold best).
Unless the knife was razor-
sharp the bandage would fur
when cut, so the result was a
ragged lump of cheese.
The plastic pack has changed
this. The packs are transparent,
so the buyer can see what he is
getting; they're printed in
attractive colors that lend them-
selves to color-advertising;
and they can be used for any
size of cheese, from 4-lb. wedges
to large 51b. slabs.
The cheese is packed in these
containers the day after manu-
facture ; it need not be
bandaged, because the plastic
bag is airtight, so there is no
mould-formation or rind. The
whole wedge can be eaten.
With the overseas market for
cheese as dicky as it is for
other dairy-products, this idea
is boosting local sales, and
so proving a blessing to the
industry. Small factories can
mature cheese and dispense it
as attractively as the largest and
most up-to-date food-establish-
ment. The packs carry well,
store in a minimum space and
can be kept in the shop fridge
without going as hard as a
brick.
Last year we ate an average
of 6.331 b. of cheese per head
of population—an increase in
total consumption from 21,646
tons to 27,575 tons. Most of
this increase went to the local
trade which commands the
highest return to the dairyman
—important in view of present
overseas markets.
Another Big Chip
“Scamperdale”: In “Stan’s”
article (B. 24/9/'5B) shouldn’t
it read that the shearer gets a
fraction of a penny over
Is. 6d. per head? —[Yes].
Air Transportation
“Van”: Aerial topdressing
is becoming popular in all types
of country, not just the hilly
parts (B. 27/8/’5B). Farmers
realise that bulk-handling saves
money, and a plane is the only
means available to them for
bulk-handling super. A loading-
tractor dumps the super., a
half-ton at a time, into the
plane, which is ready to take-
off 10 seconds after landing
(quick work).
In our district, which is quite
flat, forward crops are sprayed
from the air to control skeleton-
weed. Imagine trying to spray
such crops with the normal
boom-spray! It would do
more harm than good.
Besides its use for top-
dressing and spraying, the plane
has proved invaluable for
dropping rabbit-baits, destroy-
ing grasshoppers, and ferrying
fencing-materials and supplies
to men working in moun-
tainous country.
Farm Hints
“Gunner”: In farming,
yellow is a greater danger-
symbol than red. Yellowish
skin, kidneys and eyes suggest
that sheep are affected with
toxsemic jaundice, commonly
known as “yellows.” Yellowish
fruit-trees show lack of nitrogen
or zinc in the soil. Yellowish
cereals also need nitrogen,
especially in light sandy areas.
Waterlogging is another thing
this color shows. Some fungi
turn the leaves yellow; and
when yellow turns to bright
brown, rust has generally
spoiled the crop.
“Woomera”: One advantage
of the atom-age is that quite
small doses of radiation will
sterilise insect-eggs on grain,
giving control without any
change in the grain. Tests so
far show no harm to nutritive
value or wholesomeness.
“Sari”: Rape is handy for
feeding stock, but mix it with
lucerne, chaffed grass or such
when giving it to poultry. The
hens will eat any amount of
it, but it will turn the yolks
brown if no other greenfeed
is given. The giant Kangaroo
is a higher yielder than the
Dwarf Essex.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF MEW
SOUTH WALES*— In Divorce.
TO ALLEN REUBEN MATTHEWS late
of 220 Old Canterbury Road Summer
HiII.—TAKE NOTICE that EVELYN
JANE MATTHEWS has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2865 of 1958 on the
grounds of habitual drunkenness and
failure to support for three years
and upwards and desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause
or excuse If you wish to defend you
may enter and appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 12th December 1958 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from A. J. P. HALL & HALL,
Solicitors, 90 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGIIAN, Registrar.
Missing Friend
LIONEL AITKEN, formerly of Tatter-
sails Hotel, Hay, New South Wales. —
Anyone knowing his present where-
abouts please communicate with K. G.
CRANAGE, Barrister and Solicitor, 273 a,
Glenferrie Road, Malvern, Victoria.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Want*
To buy The Rommel Papers,
edited by B. H. Liddell Hart, pub-
lished by Collins. —6750.
Copy of History of the Presby-
terian Church in N.S.W. (two vols.),
published around 1908. —6749.
To buy the International
Correspondence School’s Technical
Course Series (a number of volumes),
—6751.
Information Sought
Names of the scientific staff of
Scott’s 1910 Antarctic Expedition'!
Edward Adrian Wilson, 8.A.,
M.B. (Cantab.), chief of the scienti-
fic staff, geologist ; George C.
Simpson, D.Sc., meteorologist; T.
Griffith Taylor, 8.A., B.Sc., 8.E.,
geologist ; Edward W. Nelson,
biologist ; Frank Debenham, 8.A.,
B.Sc., geologist ; Charles S. Wright,
8.A., physicist; Raymond E.
Priestley, geologist ; Herbert G.
Pouting, F.R.G.S., camera artist;
Cecil H. Meares, in charge of
dogs ; Bernard C. Day, motor-
engineer ; Apsley Cherry-Garrard,
8.A., assistant - geologist; and
Tryggve Gran, sub-lieutenant Nor-
wegian N.R., 8.A., ski-expert.
* * * *
What is the difference, in music,
between harmony and counter-
point'!
Harmony is the study of chords,
their construction, interrelation
and logical progression. C. H.
Kitson’s definition of harmony is
“the scientific combination of two
or more different sounds.” Almost
all music can be reduced to a
chordal, or harmonic, basis —even
polyphonic compositions. In har-
mony the progression from one
chord as a unit to another is deter-
mined by certain relationships exist-
ing between the harmonies them-
selves and determined by the
presence of a key-system (i.e., higher
or lower keys, either major or
minor).
Counterpoint is the science and
art of combining two or more
melodies simultaneously. There
are two branches: “free” counter-
point and “strict” counterpoint ;
the latter is more usually taught.
This is a style of part-writing that is
the direct descendant of the pre-
harmonic or early polyphonic
schools of composition that reached
their height before the i7th cen-
tury. There are stacks of rules
and restrictions, all of which are
regarded as necessary discipline for
every would-be composer.
The difference between the two is
as follows: harmony, being the
study of chords, is therefore a
vertical science; counterpoint, in
examining flowing lines of melody,
creates a horizontal impression.
The two overlap, since any given
three chords, placed one after the
other, will produce both harmony
and counterpoint—harmony in the
chordal structure, counterpoint in
the successive progression of
individual parts.
* * * *
(1) Did Max Schmeling ever knock
down Joe Louis ? (2) Did Jack
Johnson ever fight Sam Langford!
(1) Yes, twice —in the first of
their two fights (1936). In the
fourth round Schmeling knocked
down Louis (first time Louis had
ever been knocked to the canvas),
and k.o.’d him in the 12th. This
was before Louis became world
champion. (Louis, of course, got
his revenge in their return fight in
1938.) (2) Yes, once, in 1906, when
Johnson won .on points, though
Langford was twice down for
counts of nine. Johnson refused to
fight him again, though Langford
tried hard to get him to stake his
title. It is recorded that Langford
once chanced on Johnson in a
Boston tavern, and challenged him
to fight there and then; but the
champion declined, walking out —
a tactical victory, at any rate, for
the “Boston Tar-baby.”
* * * *
(1) Did Vic Trumper open for
Australia in Tests, or in what posi-
tion did he bat ? (2) If an opener,
who was his partner ?
(1) In his first Test-series, in
England in 1899, he batted at either
fourth- or fifth-wicket down, and
in the last Test of the series at
first-wicket down. For the follow-
ing five series against England he
opened the innings, until, after a
“pair” in the fourth 1907-08 Test in
Meibom ne, he was dropped down
the list in the fifth Test, and there-
after, until his last series, the
1911-12 in Australia, he usually
batted around the middle of the
side. (2) His most famous partner
was Reg Duff, who made a century
in his first Test (1901-02) and
another one in his last (1905). A.
'G. Moyes, in his Australian Bats-
men, says that Trumper and Duff
“formed an opening pair which for
sheer brilliance has never been
excelled in Australian cricket
history.” Others who opened with
Trumper included Sid Gregory,
Darling, M. A. Noble and Macart-
ney.
* * » *
How far can a pump raise water
in a straight vertical lift ?
There are two main kinds of
pumps for lifting water —suction-
head and pressure-lift. Suction-
head : theoretically a pump can
raise cold water 27ft. by suction at
sea-level. In practice the normal lift
is 15ft.-20ft., with a general operat-
ing maximum of about 25ft. This
lift is reduced by about' Ift. for
every 1000 ft. of altitude above sea-
level. The suction-head also is
reduced as the water gets warmer.
With water at 160 deg. F. it is
practically impossible to raise it by
suction. Pressure-head: No prac-
tical limit to the height water can
be forced upwards by a pump ;
depends on the design and the
power applied.
* * * *
Any information on getting the
wool off sheep by treating them
with a chemical ? '
In 1956 Mr. B. O. Ellesley, Bel-
more, Yalarbon, Queensland,- and
Mr. Hall, a chemist, experimented
with the shearing of sheep by chemi-
cal treatment. The experiment
consisted of applying ab'out 20oz.
of the fluid, the nature of which
was not disclosed, from a bottle
along the back of each sheep from
head to tail in a strip 3in. wide.
A few hours later the sheep showed
symptoms of a fairly severe re-
action; in some cases lanoline was
applied to alleviate the severe burn-
ing of the skin.
Within 24 hours, in some cases,
the wool could be pulled away
easily from all parts of the body
and variations in this effect were
attributed to inconsistency in the
amounts of the mixture used. In
practice no attempt is made to
remove the fleece until about three
weeks later, by which time new
wool has grown beneath the
“break,” affording a protection for
the sheep. Ellesley stated that wool
does not fall off in the paddock, but
the whole fleece can be removed
by gently pulling it away. The
experimental sheep were mustered
and examined; in some cases the
fleece could be removed as a whole,
although in no case did wool come
away easily from the head, neck,
belly and legs. In other cases the
wool had “tightened-up again,” and
in some sheep the skin showed
effects of severe burning with no
sign of new wool-growth. Results,
generally speaking, were not satis-
factory. The Queensland Depart-
ment of Agriculture should be able
to supply further details.
* * * *
Brief history of the College of the
Sorbonne!
Founded in 1252 by Robert de
Sorbon, chaplain to Louis IX,-with
the consent of that monarch. The
college was devoted entirely to
theology, and was regulated by the
strictest discipline. None could
enter it until he had already grad-
uated Bachelor of Arts, and the
management of the college was in
the hands of a body of 36 students,
the Socii. The course of study,
including frequent disputations,
was most thorough, and the Sor-
bonne rapidly rose to the highest
position among the theological
schools of Europe. Such was its
reputation that difficult cases were
actually sent from Rome for its
decision.
The Sorbonne welcomed the
introduction of printing, but with
the decay of the scholastic
philosophy its fame also died away.
It clung to the old ideas till the
Revolution, when its property was
all confiscated. On the reorganisa-
tion of the University of Paris in
1808 the Sorbonne became tire seat
of the three faculties of literature,
science and theology. In 1823 the
university library was moved to the
Sorbonne; in 1868 the Ecole des
Hautes Etudes and in 1897 the
Ecole des Chartes were established
there. Reconstruction of the
buildings was completed in 1889.
* * * *
Brief biography of Thomas
Heney ?
Born in Sydney on November 5,
1862, he was educated at Cooma;
joined the staff of the “Sydney
Morning Herald” as an assistant-
reader in 1878, and became a
reporter on the “Daily Telegraph”
six years later. He was editor of
the “Wilcannia Times” in 1886,
returning to Sydney to work on the
“Echo” till it ceased publication
in 1893. He then rejoined the
“Herald” as a reviewer and writer
of occasional leaders, was appointed
associate-editor in 1899 and editor
in 1903.
He held this position up to 1918,
and was subsequently editor of the
Brisbane “Telegraph” (1920-23) and
“Daily Telegraph” (1923-25). Heney
published two volumes of poetry:
Fortunate Days (1886) and In
Middle Harbour (1890). Two
novels by him were also published:
The Girl at Birred’s (1896) and A
Station Courtship (1899). He died
at Springwood (Blue Mountains,
N.S.W.) on August 19, 1928.
* * * if
Details of the 1917 N.S.W. rail-
strike ?
It began as a protest by the
Amalgamated Society of Engineers
against the introduction of a card-


m
r\-& as*
One thought that must be related to Australia’s
developmental hopes is that banking, as we have
known it over the years, is undergoing some
active changes.
Since I have been in Britain, one of the large
conservative banks entered the hire-purchase field,
and also offered its clients personal loans without
security. It was‘followed quickly by other banks.
This has had considerable notice in Australia
because of its implications in our own system of
banking and hire-purchase.
Another British trend, which has had less
prominence in Australia, is that some of the
insurance companies are stepping into areas of
business which had been accepted as the province
of the banks.
An interesting circumstance in this is that
banking and insurance—two of the largest
concentrations of capital in a country—have a
common basis in the “spread” of their transactions.
This applies both to the source—in deposits or
premiums, as the case may be—and to the use to
which they put their available funds.
And this last point, touching investment, bears
importantly on what is happening today in the
world of finance.
The trend among controllers of funds abroad
is to spread their investment as widely as possible.
It can be described geometrically as aiming to have
a structure more in the form of an equilateral
triangle than one with tall sides and a narrow base.
A clear development —and this is very evident
in the United States —is that investment tends
to become more international. For instance,
manufacturers whose product has a world
reputation are putting their stock on to the market
in various countries to attract foreign support to
their programmes.
A lot of this type of business is going on among
big investing groups now. It can be expected to
work down to the small investor.
Altogether, there, is a marked change in the
paths that money in the world is taking.
And I mention it here because I believe we owe
it to ourselves to be well-informed of these trends,
and to see how the changing pattern of finance
can best be applied in expansion of the
Australian economy.
// //(is7u*f s
system into the Randwick tramway
workshops. This was interpreted
by the union as a system of “speed-
up,” to which unions had been
traditionally opposed. The strike
- spread rapidly to other transport-
workers, to miners, and to various
other branches of industry when
men refused to handle “black”
goods. In all, 79 disputes through-
out the Commonwealth were
directly traceable to the original
dispute, with at least 95,000 workers
involved. During 1917 a total of
4,599,658 working-days were lost.
After five weeks of deadlock,
during which large numbers of
non-unionists had been employed
by the N.S.W. Government, the
Union Defence Committee accepted
a basis of settlement decided on
at a conference between the Indus-
trial Commissioner and represen-
tatives of the Union Defence Com-
mittee. The basis was a trial-
period fob the “card-system,” to
be followed by a Royal Commission
on its operation. In the re-employ-
ment of railway-workers priority
was to be given to those employed
at the start of the strike.
The strike officially ended on
September 19, just short of eight
weeks from its beginning.
Brief Answers
R.H.C.: That’s right. Com-
post is a valuable source of organic
matter. Best made from lawn-
clippings, vegetable - tops, leaf-
moulds, weeds before they seed and
crop-residues free from disease.
Coarse, woody stalks of plants
should not be used. The material
should be chopped-up and placed,
on a heap or in a pit, in layers
several inches deep and kept moist-
ened with water. The compost
should be turned once a month....
K.R.: The world air-speed record
is now claimed for U.S. Captain
Walter Irwin, who flew at 1404.19
m.p.h. in a Lockheed FIO4A Star-
fighter jet on May 16 this year
over a measured course above
Edwards Air Force Base, California.
The previous record was set by
Major Adrian Drew in a U.S. Air
Force Voodoo on Dec. 12, 1957,
when he averaged 1207.6 m.p.h. in
two flights over a measured course
—also above Edwards base. Pre-
vious record to that (1132 m.p.h.)
was set by England’s Peter Twiss
in a Fairey Delta on March 10,
1956, over Chichester (Sussex)....
C.D.McD.: Dalapon is available
from suppliers of herbicides.
Armitrol is not yet available
locally, but will probably be
retailed by Agricultural Services
Pty., Ltd., in the near future
8.N.: Organic-manures are used
mainly for vegetable-crops, on com-
mercial market-gardens and on
home gardens. Farmyard-manure
and compost are added to improve
the texture and increase the water-
holding capacity of the soils; this
is very important in many city
gardens, where the soil is otherwise
quite poor VJ.: “Speech-
rhythm” is a particular form of
psalm-chanting used in the Anglican
Church. The argument is that
chant is a modification of Gregorian
plainsong, in which time-values are
regarded as secondary to the smooth
progress of the words; hence,
chant should be treated similarly—
as musical prose rather than
prosaic, stumbling recitation....
W.J.S.: There were two nuggets—
Welcome and Welcome Stranger.
Both were found in Victoria. Wel-
come, discovered at Bakery Hill,
Ballarat, in 1858, weighed 22170 z.;
Welcome Stranger was found at
Moliagul, Dunolly, in 1869; weight,
25200 z H.McO.: Impossible to
trace E.L.R.: Prepare a mixture
of shredded paraffin-wax and com-
mon crushed resin in equal quan-
tities. Liquefy in a vessel standing
in water over a closed 'fire—it’s
highly inflammable. Steep the
wooden tapers in this while warm.
Dye can be added in the form of
house-painters’ dry colors. Smoki-
ness may be increased by a higher
proportion of resin... .G.R.H.:
The bowl was used by barbers when
they were allowed to. practise blood-
letting and tooth-extraction, and
was a sign of their trade. Impos-
sible to obtain any information on
the value of the bowl, but it’s
probable there are still many in
existence. Only way to test its
value is to advertise it for sale, or
send it to auction in the city
R.S.: Suggest you contact any of
the large wholesale drug-houses in
Sydney, such as D.H.A., 122 Terry
Street, Rozelle, or the Wholesale
Drug Company, 17 Parker Street,
Haymarket W.H.: Blackboy
(Xanthorrhcea preisii ) in W.A. is
something like the grass-tree found
on the N.S.W. coast. It yields a
copious dark or yellow resinous
gum which has sometimes had a
commercial value. It is very slow-
growing.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluniar. y
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered )or publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
D.P.: Strong feeling tamely
expressed C.N.: We’ll let this
much of “The Struggling Writer”
struggle in:
For a writers life is hard and lands him
in all types of strife
The critics are cruel and in his back
they often stick a knife
But still he writes on, and on until his
nerves get rife
Struggling for recognition that is the
way of a writers life.
. ...M.F.: “My eyes first louvred
the vacuum to fragrance.” The
poems look as if they ought to be
simple and you’re deliberately mak-
ing them complicated to be up-to-
date... .K.F.S.: That's a fiery
little particle P.A.W.: As long
as they’re all in fun....R.D.: 1 t's
a fair description of Saturday night
in a snack-bar J.H.V. (S.A.):
“You could ramble on for ever” —
and you just about did....
M.McD.: Your solution to the Irish
question is not very clear....
S.A.C.: Sing-song. You shouldn’t
have started with “Have you
ever”... .G.C.: Just for the wait-
ress we’ll suffer this much of “The
City”:
Within the inn of chromed veneer
Fly-stained coffee-menus leer.
A waitress weary at this hour
Her jaws gyrating like a cow
Asks, “Wot’ll y’ ’ave?” through
chewing gum.
. ...L.L.: Don’t write on large,
generalised subjects such as “Road
Toll.” Describe something you've
seen... .L.M.: “The Pensioner” is (
the usual sort of poem, but that’s'
certainly an unusual covering letter
which says: “eyes hok brown tan
bag crocheting supper-cloth 1 tow'el
small new small light lawn coat
with short sleeves pearl earrings.”


“Get on with the job,” Ted
growled.
The barber finished in
silence.
The interview with Dean, the
bank-manager, was very quiet,
very definite. There could be
no extension of his overdraft,
which must, in fact, be reduced
substantially, and soon.
As he was going Dean
looked at him curiously:
“What’s this I hear about
young Jum Murdoch selling
you a crook horse?”
“He did,” Ted said mildly.
Dean lit a cigarette, offered
the packet to Ted.
“No thanks.”
Dean inhaled: “Wild young
beggar,” he said. “I’ve known
him for years. His father—
your father-in-law banks
here. Very solid. Perhaps if
he would guarantee you . . .?”
“No,” Ted said.
Dean raised his eyebrows:
“You know best, of course,”
he said drily. “However.” He
stood up. “Don't go making
any more deals like that one,”
he advised genially. “A horse,
of course, is neither here nor
there, but tales like that get
around —it reflects oh your
judgment.”
Ted nodded curtly. “I’ll bear
it in mind.”
In the Royal he saw Big
Jim’s white head high in the
middle of a group and walked
down the far end of the bar.
He ordered a middy.
Terry slid the glass over the
counter, dabbed with a cloth.
“Your father-in-law’s in fine
voice,” he remarked.
“He likes talking.”
“I’ll say! He’s reliving some
battle of his youth ; bloke with
the same name as you—Martin
Lewis. Any relation?”
Ted ignored the question:
“Who’s winning?”
Terry cocked his ear, and
Big Jim’s voice boomed above
the confused noises of the bar.
“I think hello! Here’s
trouble! ”
Two of the younger Mur-
doch boys, Kevin and Joe, had
just come in.
“Why trouble?” Ted asked.
“They’re barred from here
. . . fighting,” Terry said, and
vaulted over the counter. In
a moment he was facing the
two tall, dark youngsters, arms
wide.
Ted strolled over.
They were 18 and 16, but
both well over 6ft. They
stared down at the stocky bar-
man indignantly.
“But we’ve just come in with
the cattle we’re bloody
thirsty,” Kevin said loudly.
They looked it.
“We just want a word with
the old man,” Joe said, more
loudly. Their father ignored
them.
“You’re barred, and that’s
that,” Terry said firmly.
The two handsome, dusty
faces scowled at him, but
seemed undecided.
“Aw, come on,” Kevin said.
“Plenty of other pubs in
town.”
Then his eye met Ted’s.
Kevin sneered: “Hullo, big
shot. Any big deals lately?”
Joe chimed in: “Jum’s look-
ing for you. Got a horse he
wants to sell you.”
“Run along, little boys,” Ted
said, and walked back to the
bar.
TTai.f-an-hour later Tom
Cliff, the baker, told him
that Joe and Kevin were drink-
ing at the Star, arguing as to
who would have the honor of
fighting him.
“They’re only kids,” Ted
said.
“Pretty husky kids,” Tom
said. “I’d watch out for them
if I were you.”
“Don’t worry about old Ted,
here,” a voice behind him said.
“He can take care of himself,
can’t you, Ted?”
Ted turned around to meet
the candid blue eyes and
flushed face of Bill Marks. Bill
had had a few to drink.
“You don’t say,” Tom Cliff
said politely.
“My very wqrd,” Bill said
aggressively. “Ted and I went
to school together, didn’t we,
Ted? And we learned how
to use our hands, too. Don’t
"Go for your lives—here come the Vice Squad!”
you worry about anyone pick-
ing on Ted.”
“I’m not worrying,” Tom
felt obliged to point out.
“Champion boxer of the
school, that’s all he was,” Bill
went on. “Weren’t you,
Ted?”
Ted said nothing. The type
of boxing he had done
wouldn’t, he felt, be a great
deal of use against Jum Mur-
doch . . . and caught him-
self. Here I am drifting into
thinking I’m under some sort
of obligation to fight Jum
Murdoch. He looked at Bill
coldly. He remembered Bill
as a particularly bloody-
minded small boy at 'school
when he had been a big boy
and had gone in for boxing
and other strenuous pastimes.
Because they had both come
from the same town he had
kept a casual eye on Bill, and
they had struck-up a friendship
in later years. But Bill’s
enthusiasm for fighting could
get his friends into trouble.
Bill was talking earnestly to
Tom, who was nodding his
head and saying “Go on,” at
intervals. “And that goes for
any of the Murdochs,” Bill
concluded fiercely.
“For Jum Murdoch, too?”
someone asked.
“Yes,” Bill said, thrusting out
his jaw. “For Jum Murdoch,
too.”
“What’s all this about?” Ted
wanted to know.
Several voices assured him
Bill had just challenged Jum
Murdoch on his .behalf.
Ted said that he had no
intention of challenging Jum
Murdoch. There was a disap-
pointed silence.
“Well, you’re not frightened
of Jum Murdoch, are you?”
Bill demanded, a plea in his
eye.
Net, Ted said slowly, he
wasn’t frightened of Jum Mur-
doch. He hoped it was true.
And why should he be
frightened, he asked himself,
walking down the street. , He
wasn’t an adolescent, to be
talked into a fight. He was, he
hoped, civilised. All the same,
he thought wryly, the
psychology of the town had a
cumulative effect. He saw Jum
Murdoch walking up the street
on the other side of the road
flanked by his two tall, young
brothers, taller and broader
than either. There was no
doubt he was a spectacular
young giant.
He watched the swaggering
trio, and found himself won-
dering how he would go in a


fight with Jum. A match with
gloves, and rounds, and he
might have had a chance,
once: now he didn’t like to
think about it. In any case, his
style , had never been the kind
to stop a powerful man like
Jum Murdoch in a brawl ; he
had been a boxer, and he had
only had one hand in attack.
He had never knocked a man
out in his life. A quick left
hand—but even that, now,
would be gone, slowed by age
and by heavy manual work . . .
/”\ne of the tall boys—Kevin
or Joe —saw him, pointed
him out excitedly to Jum. Then
all . three stared blackly and
truculently across the road.
Finally Jum shrugged, and all
three walked into the bar of
the Star.
Ted had lunch in the dining-
room at the Royal. Harrison,
a greying, gentlemanly grazier,
sat at the table with him.
Harrison asked him if he was
going to the sale, and when he
said “Yes” looked at him
queerly and asked if there was
any special reason.
Ted said “No,” there was no
reserve on the few vealers he
had in, they had to be sold.
Still, he had always gone . . .
His voice trailed away.
“I’d keep away if I were
you,” Harrison said crisply. “I
heard some talk in the bar.
Those Murdoch boys are out
for trouble. I’d keep well clear
of them if I were you.”
“Thanks for the warning,”
Ted said, folding up his nap-
kin. He glanced around.
Several people at neighboring
tables had stopped talking.
There was the usual dust and
smell of cattle, and the
auctioneer’s chant, which sud-
denly died away as Ted walked
down the lane between the high
wooden stalls. Cattle bawled
in the background,, but all
human sound stopped.
Jum Murdoch detached him-
self from the group of
loungers, walked forward, grin-
ning, hitching up his jodhpurs.
“You looking for me?” he
asked.
For some reason Ted hadn’t
expected that: “No,” he said.
Jum Murdoch towered over
him, and Ted felt how futile
it would be to try to smash
down that dark, smiling bulk
with what had once been a fair
left hand for an amateur.
Jum Murdoch didn’t say
anything, just stood there, dark,
handsome and immense, smil-
ing. Then Ted remembered
that he wanted to look at the
vealers, and he turned away.
A woman laughed.
Ted had gone five paces
when he heard it, and he swung
around.
He caught a glimpse of the
fair, silly face of the woman
who had laughed, sitting on
top of the fence behind Jum.
He didn’t know her, and he
didn't want to know her. He
walked back to Jum and saw
astonishment waking on the
big, dark, handsome face.
“You’ve been looking for
this,” Ted said coolly, and hit
him hard between the eyes,
side-stepped and hit him again,
and again. It was going to be
all right, he told himself exult-
antly, the old left was working
like magic, smooth as silk —
smooth enough, anyway, to hit
this big yokel any time he
wanted to . . .
Jum swung wildly, and it
wasn’t hard to dodge his blows.
Ted’s left kept shooting out,
shooting, and Jum’s shining
face was showing red patches.
I’ll jab him silly, Ted thought,
and then one of Jum’s swings
caught him and he went over.
He was shaken when he got
up, less confident about the
left. Jum, when he got used to
the annoyance, gave up all
attempt to guard his face, wait-
ing grimly. And each 'time
the ponderous fist caught him
Ted went down.
The left jabs were less fluent
now, and Ted’s arm felt dread-
fully heavy. Both men were
winded, breathing in panting
gasps, but Jum hurt Ted when
he hit him, and Ted’s straight
lefts had ceased to worry Jum.
There was a roaring in Ted's
ears, and he didn’t feel the next
punch that knocked him over.
He got up slowly, trying to
remember something, some-
thing nagging at the back of
his brain . . . Then the glint
of Jum’s dark eyes, the big
fist swung back, the big, bronze
jaw; and Jum, absurdly, flat
on his back, someone shouting
for water, yelling, and a numb-
ness of his right hand.
He had used his right, after
all, and hadn’t remembered it.
The first man he had ever
knocked out, and with the right
hand. Maybe because it wasn’t
deliberate—what was it his
boxing-instructor had said? —
he tried too hard.
• Anyway, he. had used it.
There was Jum, unconscious.
to prove it. And Bill banging
him triumphantly on the back,
shouting, “What did I say?”
Big Jim bustling forward,
self-important but shaken—to
hell with Big Jim, and his
contract, too . . . He’d beat it
somehow . . .
He waited until Jum was on
his feet again, and someone
insisted they shake hands, and
-he did so, not greatly caring.
He had the beginnings of a
terrible headache, his nose and
mouth were bleeding, and he
felt very tired. But there was
something else. He walked
stiffly over to the auctioneer
and told him.
“What’s that?” The
auctioneer leant forward.
“Grey gelding . . Ted
mumbled. “Withdraw from
sale . .
“Oh, 0.k.” The auctioneer
made a note, shouted some-
thing to a .youth with a long
stick. “That'll be right, Mr.
Lewis,” the auctioneer assured.
Ted. “We'll send it back with
Harry Purdy.”
“Good,” said Ted, and
hobbled away.
“T’m keeping the grey geld-
A ing,” he told Ann, driving
home.
She looked at his battered
face curiously: “Why? As a
souvenir of victory?”
“No.” His blue eyes held
the road. “No —not that. You
see, I like it. It mightn’t be
much of a stock-horse, but it’s
a nice, friendly sort of a
horse.”
“I see,” she said.
And she did see.
The Hollidays
By Middy
" Watch that stone...keep clear of nettles...look out for snakes...be careful going past that hole ...
not so fast...a little to the left..."


higher: the series includes T. S. Eliot’s
Collected Poems (1909-1935), also The
Cocktail Party, and Auden’s The
Ascent of F 6.
For a little lighter refreshment there
are such novels as William Golding’s
Lord of the Flies; and as a faint
reminder of the days when the English
paperback —the French has always
been respectable —was essentially lurid
and sensational there is Best SF, which
is science-fiction stories edited by
Edmund Crispin.
One item in this series has a couple
of points of some special interest to
Australia. This is Verse and Worse, a
“private collection” by Arnold Silcock.
It is an anthology of oddments of
humorous verse, sometimes consciously
funny, sometimes unconsciously; some-
times well known, sometimes rare.
Perhaps one couplet will provide an
indication of its general quality; jin
anonymous contribution from the 17th
century: —
That which doth make this life
delightful prove
Is a genteel sufficiency—and love!
Or you could take another anonymous
effort, entitled “Higher Education”:—
As I was laying on the green
A little book it chanced I seen.
Carlyle’s “Essay on Burns” was the
edition —
1 left it laying in the same position.
Approaching the Australian items,
one might note that Silcock prints a
much-bowdlerised version of “The
Bleed’n’ Sparrer” which, if we can lay
no claim to its authorship, one has at
least heard recited with considerable
gusto in this country; but the specific
points to be npted are that some
extracts from C. J. Dennis’s “The Senti-
mental Bloke” are included; and that
there is a poem called “The Bloody
Orkneys” which appears to be a pirated
version of the celebrated “Ode to
Darwin”—unless it was the unknown
Australian author who did the pirating.
Silcock comments on his Dennis
extracts: “C. J. Dennis has written a
delightful dictionary of the slang used
in his poems, but Sydney [Melbourne,
please!] is so close to Seven Dials —
(well! in dialect, anyway)—that few
definitions are really essential.” The
Orkney piece is attributed, without
comment, to one Captain Hamish Blair:
one can only say that almost identically
the same poem, with Darwin instead of
Orkney, was published in “The
Bulletin” on August 13, 1941.
As about 20 of our warriors then
in the field claimed simultaneously to
have written it, “The Bulletin” never
really knew who was responsible; but
its resemblance to Goodge’s sunburnt
stockman and Dennis’s “Australaise,”
as well as our general proprietory
interest in the great adjective, make an
Australian origin seem probable.
A Good innings Ends
In End of an Innings (Oldbourne)
Denis Compton tells of his cricketing
career frankly and with humor, and
the book is not overloaded with figures.
Compton confesses to being unortho-
dox in his batting. He escaped the
coaching which concentrates on form
at the expense of natural gifts.
He the usual candid appraisals
of leading figures in the game, and his
versions of incidents about which there
has been whispering and muttering.
Bradman comes prominently into the
story. He has Compton’s unstinted
admiration as the batsman of all time;
and he ranks him as the most efficient
captain and the most astute tactician on
the field, not excepting leaders under
whom he himself has played.
Dealing with controversial incidents,
there was that first Test in Brisbane
when Hammond led the English side.
English players, fielding near, were
certain that Ikin had caught Bradman
in the slips. So was Compton, though
“fielding at long-leg”—hardly in a
position to judge. It is history that
Bradman stood his ground and on
appeal was given not-out.
Compton implies that Bradman
should have left immediately for the
pavilion. He appears to have had a
different idea when in the fourth Test
at Leeds in 1953 he stayed put himself
in similar circumstances.
Like many English commentators,
Denis Compton emphasises what is
called Australian dourness and will to
win, suggesting that English players
have quite a light-hearted approach to
the game. This is nonsense: they are
as keen to win (and properly so) as
Australians, and, if anything, are more
dour, particularly in danger of defeat.
Witness Compton’s defensive stand in
Adelaide with Godfrey Evans, when
the ’keeper stayed for 90 minutes with-
out making a run.
But there is no doubt that Compton
dislikes stuffy, purely defensive cricket.
He is outspoken in condemnation of
the Hutton-Bailey tactics in that Leeds
Test when Bailey bowled outside the
leg stump, making it almost impossible
to score off him, and taking his time
between deliveries. England just saved
the game; but “it wasn’t cricket,”
Compton says.
His picture of Hutton as player and
leader differs materially from the
popular conception of an unemotional
fighting Yorkshireman. In Compton’s
view he lacked decision at crucial
moments and showed strain under the
responsibility of leadership. It is sur-
prising to learn that Hutton had an
attack of nerves * before the third Test
in Melbourne; said he was unwell and
vacillated about playing until the last
moment.
All cricketers have their bad seasons.
Unhappily for Compton, his worst came
in the 1950-51 Tests in Australia.
Batting well against the States, his best
in the Tests was one bare double-figure
innings. And there was that cut eye
suffered in Melbourne; his arriving in
Sydney with it the day after the rest
of the team. Resenting the prominence
given to this mishap by the newspapers,
Compton criticises unjustly the Aus-
tralian press generally. It will be
recalled that Sydney newspaper cricket-
writers were remarkably cordial to
Brown’s side and severely critical of our
own players.
Compton touches only briefly on his
football, and does not mention that his
early prowess in Soccer led to the only
instance in Test-cricket when a bats-
man could be said to have been booted
out. It was in the match against India
at the Oval. Marchant, India’s cap-
tain, started for a short run and was
sent back. Compton, fielding near on
the off, ran in, and realising that if he
picked up the ball Marchant would get
home, booted the ball to hit the stumps
a split second before the Indian captain
grounded his bat.
His book as a whole is more enter-
taining than most books about cricket,
and there are good illustrations.
Geoff Burgoyne.
Cardus Bats On
For the second edition of his “Ten
Composers,” which has run through
four impressions since 1945, Neville
Cardus has added a chapter on
Bruckner, besides enlarging the essays
on Strauss, Delius, Debussy and
Mahler; and so, combining his lifelong
critical duality, he is able to call this
new edition A Composers Eleven (Cape).
Bruckner, it seems, was not tfie sort
to knock-up a century before lunch; he
was “an adagio man; his quick move-
ments tend to suggest a congenital slow-
ness of gait, physical and mental,
temporarily speeded-up.” Franck was
a bit of an exhibitionist, but Bruckner
was a natural; Franck “strikes an atti-
tude, ready for portrayal in stained
glass”; “Bruckner does not seek God;
he has found him....”
One turns the pages and becomes lost
in Cardus on Debussy’s “Pelleas and
Melisande”; how, in spite of what other
commentatbrs say about Debussy not
being a programme-composer, he is,
in the accompaniment to his opera, one
of the greatest musical illustrators who
ever went in to bat, as, for instance,
when Melisande’s hair falls down and
“all the violins fall down with it in
golden tresses of tone.”
It is'then that the remembered voice
recreates itself, as it used to come over
the air in Australia on Sunday nights,
and one looks up at the radio, surprised


You will enjoy. ...
THE DARLING BUDS OF MAY by H. E. Bates
This chronicle of life with the Larkin family, with their passion for eating, drinking,
dodging taxes, making love and drawing up their own peculiar and uninhibited moral code
is a gay, exuberant tale. A sure cure for depression. 15/6d., postage Bd.
A MOMENT OF WARMTH by F. Irby Cwalleney
A fine story, full of the colour, the passion and the violence of the American Deep South.
Set in Arkansas, this book gives a topical and interesting insight into the life and feeling
of the personnel of a large plantation. 22/Gd., postage lOd.
FLOWERS FOR MRS. HARRIS by Paul Callico
Mrs. Harris was a London charlady and her dearest dream was to own a Dior gown.
How she reaches Paris and realises her ambition is a story full of enchantment, humour
and pathos. Undoubtedly, one of Gallico’s best. 9/6d., postage Bd.
A SUMMER PLACE by Sloan IVilson
A beautiful portrayal of the delights and fears of young love in a world of golden sand
and summer seas—and the wreckage that can follow in the storms of winter. By the
author of The Man in the Grey Flannel Suit. 21/-, postage 1/-
For all your requirements—ißooks, Magazine Subscriptions, Long
Play Gramophone Records—Call, Write or Ring:—
GRAHAME BOOK COMPANY PTY., LTD.,
39-49 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY - - BW 2261
A Great Name in Books
that it is not going to now play the
record.
With this, if not quite in the same
breath, one might mention the paper-
back Fontana Guide to Orchestral
Music, by Frank Howes (Collins); a
more general effort to interest the
average listener in the technique of the
orchestra by the music-critic of the
London “Times.” It has chapters on
the instruments; on the evolution of
the orchestra; on tone —one way of pro-
ducing sound is “creating an electro-
magnetic disturbance”; on symphonic
form, the symphony, concertos, dance-
music and conducting. It goes a good
deal further into technique than most
such guides for untaught musicians.
School Stories
The Harrap Book of Modem Short
Stories, edited by J. G. Bullocke, Pro-
fessor of History at the Royal Naval
College, Greenwich, and Don Edwards,
of the English Department at Sydney
Technical College, is aimed at schools.
Its main general interest is that it prints,
with stories by Maugham, Hemingway,
Dylan Thomas, etc., stories by Aus-
tralians: David Campbell (“Tumult in
the Clouds”), Vance Palmer (“Travel-
ling”), R. S. Porteous (“Quite a Blow”),
Brian James (“The Pise House”); and
one New Zealander, Gloria Rawlinson
(“Gugga”).
From David Campbell’s almost
surrealist picture of airmen forced
down on a placid Pacific Eden in the
middle of a war, which begins the book,
to Brian James’s grim story of the
son who built his own house on his
mother’s property, whereupon she
charged him rent, which ends the book,
the stories have what Professor Bullocke
calls in his introduction “incident and
plenty of it,” and this should commend
it to studious schoolboys, who, accord-
ing to reliable report, prefer “Bulletin”
seamen like Porteous and J. E. Mac-
donnell to Conrad. Whether they will
see Professor Bullocke’s exquisite point,
in printing Dylan Thomas’s story of
his old Grandpa to show how Thomas
failed “to fuse character, incident and
description into an indissoluble whole”
as Chekhqv did in “The School-
mistress,” is another matter —still, the
idea of such a fusion is a good standard
to put into their heads.
Besides the names and titles men-
tioned, one can recommend to connois-
seurs of the short-story “The Ruum,”
an encounter with a science-fiction
monster by Arthur Porges, and an
exquisite bit of Lancashire farce, “The
Pedigree Pup,” by T. Thompson; how
Sam Ingham and his wife were foolish
enough to buy a pup which had eaten
its pedigree.
Reviewed Briefly
My Mother Was Hanged: E. S.
Willards (Heinemann). An 18-year-old
boy discovers that his mother had been
hanged for murder and he becomes
obsessed with the idea of justifying her.
Through 200 pages of introspection he
seeks-out records., interviews witnesses,
inveighs against society and, as he does
so, his mind and personality gradually
deteriorate. Written with skill, the story
has some interest as a psychological
study, but it lacks breadth and is too
skimped in background and characters
to be of value as a novel.
* * * *
Sigrid and the Sergeant: Robert
Buckner (Heinemann). A lively, robust
farce about American G.l.s with the
Army of Occupation in Germany.
Destined to be made into a fast-moving
film-comedy before long, it is full of
action and derives most of its humor
from using pompous military jargon
and devices to describe the battle of the
sexes. Thoroughly good broad fun
with never a serious thought in it.
By Special Request: Antonia Ridge
(Faber). A series of short sketches
told mildly and prettily about life in
France and Holland. The subject-
matter is rather threadbare and the
humor misty, but the author is certain
that she has understanding and charm.
Some may agree with her, but this
reviewer likes something more pungent,
* * * *
n
c T**® Boors Are Closing: Gyorgy
Sebestyen (lan Novak Sydney) A
novel consisting mainly of dialogue
Hungarian uprising as a back-
ground - Reading it is like looking at
a series of photographs with irrelevant,
or half-relevant, captions. The word-
photos of the fighting and its results
are excellent, but too scattered to give
a clear picture of the events. The
“captions” are earnest conversations
about the character and fate of
Hungary, freedom, man’s fate, and so
on—most of them youthfully tedious,
some of them almost meaningless to
the outsider. The hero is a young
intellectual who has been tossed out of
his university by a Party informer.


■
■N,
IN THE ANTARCTIC,
OH THE HACi TRACK,
IN TODAY'S TRAFFIC ...
\
\
m
SI
/1 ' i
high’efficiency engines
demand the high-performance
lubrication provided by
ENERGOL
MOTOR OILS
Recommended by Rolls-Royce
Arrange for
ENERGOL
LUBRICATION
SERVICE
where you
see these
pumps
SUPER
STANDARD
BP AUSTRALIA LIMITED, formerly The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd
