

The Bulletin
OiUprospecting in 1958
Wednesday, January 22, 1958
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by ppst as a newspaper.
"Of course Jack will wait for you . It's the parson I'm worried about."


HOOK HUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0.,, Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find It for you—Action,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderace
tee only if successful.
The Red Page
MODERNISED HISTORY
The fourteen-volume New Cam-
bridge Modem History (Cambridge
University Press), which has been in
preparation for some years, has been
anxiously awaited by historians, though
not with a consuming enthusiasm.
Planned by a formerly Regius Pro-
fessor of Modern History, Sir George
Clark, with an advisory committee
including three others, it was intended
to cover the period from the discovery
of America to the end of the Second
World War, with a companion volume
of references and an atlas.
It was designed to be written chapter
by chapter by separate experts under
the supervision of overall editors. This
did not seem to augur very well for
the ultimate production, since it
suggested that the continuity might
be broken through differences in style
in the writing and editorial regimen-
tation of the viewpoint in each of the
separate volumes —a common fault in
histories of the type.
Actually the method in the two first
volumes has been a success, a fact
which is due more than usual to
organisation and editing, because in
this work success seems to depend on
the selectiveness of those charged with
laying down the framework, dividing
it among the builders and providing
the subsequent co-ordination of the
parts. Its aim is stated to be not to
provide “a stepping-stone to a definitive
history” or an “abstract or a scale-
reduction of all our knowledge” but to
produce “a coherent body of judgments
true to facts.”
The format is modest, the type large
and easy to read, the indexes econo-
mical in bulk but adequate. Generally
the make-up is convenient for the
student and compact for libraiy storage
and the whole ensemble attractive and
modem.
The two volumes now issued are
Vol. I, which is devoted to The
Renaissance, 1493-1520, and Vol. VII,
The Old Regime, 1713-1763. These,
when read consecutively, produce an
intriguing contrast, which in itself
points the enormous change which
came over the world in a mere two
hundred years after the invention of
printing and the opening-up of the
Americas.
The first describes the birth of
civilised modem culture in Western
Europe; the second, while basically it
describes the consolidation of the
effects of the new thought and broader
dissemination of education in the West,
introduces the new element of global
policy and the awakening of civilisa-
tion both in the new transatlantic
world and in the dormant east of
Europe which had been in a state of
hibernation, so to speak, until Peter
the Great gave it a rousing smack on
its ursine rump, with results not yet
fully determined.
There is a marked difference both
in method and matter between the
original “Cambridge Modem History”
and the “New Cambridge Modern
History.” The earlier series had a
somewhat arid, often dogmatic air
about some of its writings, due no doubt
to the theory of Lord Acton that history
should be written stripped bare of
the personal bias and sympathies of
the writer —but often, incidentally, not
of his own opinions. This tended at
times to give the product the flavor of
the canning-factory and to divest it of
its natural human qualities. Further-
more, in the original issue there was
much that needed revision, and in the
volumes dealing with the newer over-
seas countries, such as Australia, there
was a very insular disregard for fact
on occasion which has proved most
embarrassing to some Australian
writers who have too easily relied on
its versions and opinions—Dr. Evatt is
a case in point.
The new series, while aiming to be
objective, reverses the prejudices of
the Actonian period, and returns to
a technique sedately reminiscent of
Froude and Macaulay, who were not
afraid to see either scene or event
through their own eyes and dress their
writing with something of their own
pleasure or other emotions arising
from what they saw. Also, the new
history is written on the modem
premise that it should be much more
than a mere record of politics and war
and economic change, and a sincere and
successful effort is made to cover the
whole range of human progress, social,
cultural and economic, in an orderly
and integrated picture, which is
presented with a commendable absence
of non-essentials, taking first principles
first.
Thus in the first volume a short but
adequate introduction by Professor
Denys Hay, Professor of Medieval
History at Edinburgh University,
summarises the main features of the
Renaissance and is followed by an
absorbing chapter on the geography
and economy of Western Europe on
the eve of the discovery of America
and the penetration of the great trading
nations to the Indian seas by Professor
H. C. Darby, Professor of Geography
in the University of London.
It makes it much easier to--see the
period in its perspective and to feel
the surge of the times if one knows
how small were the cities of the time,
how lonely and bleak its forests, how
limited the scale and scope of individual
human lives.
The “New History,” in fact, begins
by providing reasonably adequate fixed
points from which to measure the extent
of the tremendous surges of thought
and action which have moulded the
modern world in a mere 400 years out
of conditions which had been almost
static at best, and in many parts and
features sometimes regressive during
the previous 1500 years over the greater
part of the European continent.
The volume which deals with the
Old Regime covers the halfway-house
period of modernisation, the period of
the vanguard leadership when elegance
and aristocracy walked hand in hand
in the cultured West, but at the same
time when the parvenu rulers of what
might be called in American times the
“Middle West” of Tartar or Tartarised
civilisation were beginning to suffer
from ingrowing aspirations to culture
and modernity.
This part of the historic picture has
peculiar charms, not the least of which
are displayed in the uncouth setting
of an awakening Russia, scarcely
different in spirit from the Russia of
today, with all its regimentation,
cruelty, unceasing struggles between
commissars and intellectual snobbery
combined with the crudities of a back-
block village, but at the same time with
intense cultural ambition. Save for the
booksellers, the couturiers and the
dealers in objets d’art in Paris and
London, who did a roaring trade with
the newly rising nobility of St. Peters-
burg, the West took little stock of a
Russia of which the population was
only 14,000.000, or less than that of
modern Canada—and more than 90
per cent, peasant at that. But it was the
soil in which was being sown at the
beginning of the eighteenth century
slowly-germinating seeds of revolu-
tionary change as vast and as original
as any that arose after the storming
of the Bastille or the fortuitous arrival
of Comrade Lenin from Switzerland in
1917.
The influences at work struck so
deeply that in order, presumably, to
redeem the Russian from hirsute
barbarism there was even a tax on
beards, though no evidence of a
premium or allowable income-tax
deduction to encourage the use of
soap. The current thought was so
modern in some respects that reading
about it would be likely to give the
modern Muscovite a bout of homesick-
ness if he were in exile.
Then, as now, we learn, “the
evidence most highly valued” in the
Moscow courts was “a confession by
the accused,” which therefore was
often obtained by methods even more
ingenious than, those of Comrade
Khrushchev.
Then the Russian nobility consisted
entirely of conscripted commissars.
(<Continued on page 58)


ANTHONY
A
Orthopaedically cor-
rect Lightweight
steel shanks give
steady support for
young feet.
Oi
3&.
£
Rubber soles that
won’t wear out.
The’re welded to
the uppers . . . can
take the roughest
wear and. tear.
"c )
-All!
r '// • ! \'V
frno-
i... V
Fractional fittings
for boys and girls.
m
§§§g
• m
m-
I
mm
&
1
a
Soles guaranteed not to come off!
Torflex Shoes by Clarks fr. 50 A
Will be outgrown before they're outworn
It’s the back-to-school season again, but you have no
worries about your children’s footwear . . . A.H’s have
Clarks Torflex shoes, with solid rubber soles that never
need repairing. To order, send tracing of your child’s feet.
A. “Runabout” for boys and
girls, black, brown. 5O/-.
B. “Scholar” for girls. Black,
brown. Sizes 2 to 5| at 59/6.
C. “Prep” for boys. Black only.
Sizes from 2 to s|-. Priced 62/6.
Telephone 80951 or mail your order to Box 2712 G.P.O. Sydney. Please add postage.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, January 22, 1958
Vol. 79—No. 4067
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adam*
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opposite
G 8.0.), Wellington.
COMMONWEALTH UNITY
THE visit of Mr. Harold Macmillan to
Australia about two months before the
presentation of the British Budget
will open a new phase of Common-
wealth relations.
Mr. Macmillan left London with a
Cabinet crisis on his hands. Mr.
Thomeycroft, Chancellor of the
Exchequer —the most important mem-
ber of the Cabinet, in English eyes, next
to the P.M. —had resigned, and with
him went two Treasury Ministers. But
flying out of England with his wife,
after having replaced the seceders, on
January 7, he will be back in time to
arrange his plans for the Budget
session at the end of March. In the
meantime he will have travelled 30,000
miles by air, looked in on India,
Pakistan, Australia, New Zealand and
Ceylon, having spent 38 days away
from home, including four spent in
air-travel, a fortnight in Australia,
eight days in New Zealand, four days
in India and Pakistan and two days
each in Singapore and Ceylon. In
Australia he will have travelled north
to see something of the sugar-industry
and south to see Tasmania.
He will be the first British Prime
Minister to visit this country during
a term of office. His visit is the
culmination of a number of visits for
consultations by Dominion and Com-
monwealth Relations Ministers.
The world is changing very fast
indeed. One of the marked changes
is the resurgence of Western Germany,
which industrially is already the
world’s third-most-powerful nation;
and militarily it could be if it were not
prepared to let the U.S.A. and Britain,
its conquerors, do the defending for
the present while it swipes their com-
merce and shipping trade and applies
all its vigor to economic growth.
Another is the realisation by France
and other countries that the West can
only survive through acting in concert,
leading to modifications of the Briand,
and later Churchill, conceptions of a
United States of Europe which is mani-
festing itself in the creation of blocs
for trade and Customs purposes—the
European Coal and Steel Community,
Euratom and the Commission of the
European Economic Community
(common market).
This organisation, not yet fully
perfected, but in process of being
knocked into shape by the Foreign
Ministers of France, West Germany,
Italy, Belgium, the Netherlands and
Luxembourg, is more than a series of
treaty organisations. It bids fair to be
the embryo —for the present —of a
Federation of States much on the lines
of the Commonwealth of Australia,
though with the delegation of powers
in a much narrower field.
It will have its own Parliamentary
assembly, its own bank and economic
commission, and even its own court,
and, in effect, a Cabinet consisting of
the presidents of the various bodies
constructed with as nice a respect for
State rights as ever has been shown
in Canberra.
The president of the Economic
Commission will be the West German
Secretary for Foreign Affairs; the
atomic authority will be headed by
the chairman of the French National
Railways; the bank will be headed by
an Italian; the Coal and Steel Com-
munity by a Belgian trade-union
leader; the Court by a Netherlander.
However closely the U.K. may try
to identify itself with moves of this
sort and to co-operate, the U.K. can
never be one with the Continent because
it is already involved in a far more
wide-flung Commonwealth which in
only some respects is similar in its
arrangements to the European
continental communities.
The establishment of ties between
the European countries must have an
effect on British markets in time and
must develop the pressures of compe-
tition.
When West Germany has completely
steadied itself on its economic feet it
will no longer wish to rely on the
United States and Britain, which it
has been content to see pay for its
defence, and history may, in a very
few years, see the emergence of a
fourth military bloc aiming at being
self-reliant, a bloc which Russia will
do its utmost to prevent from becoming
effective. The heart of basic genius still
resides in Europe.
All these moves and the United
States attitude on the world oil question
and on international politics, of which
Mr. Dulles obviously considers himself
the rightful dictator, tend to isolate the
English-speaking British Common-
wealth countries and force on them
the need for closer relationships in
the production and usage of raw
materials, in markets and defence.
Of the four great units of the
Commonwealth deriving from Europe,
and in the main from Great Britain,
three are still gravely underpopulated
in relation to their resources—
Australia, Canada and New Zealand,
which between them hold only about
three-fifths the population of England
and Wales, though their areas total
over 6,000,000 square miles, against
the 50,000 square miles of the U.K.
south of the Scottish border.
There are, then, the equivalent of
two countries the size of the U.S.A.
within the Commonwealth predomi-
nantly British in race and thought,
method of government, and moral and
religious principles, waiting for develop-
ment and population.
Already, through lack of effort in
co-ordination within the Common-
wealth, there has been an invasion on
a large scale in Canada and, on a grow-
ing scale, in Australia, of polyglot popu-
lation which does not assimilate easily,
but which breeds at a rate beyond that
of the British races and whose influence
is already changing cultural values and
lending a Continental flavor to Aus-
tralian ways of life in particular.
If the great white Dominions are
to preserve their homogeny there must
be a more organised British system for
the exchange of populations. And if
their resources are to be developed in
tune with the growth of populations
there must be closer economic ties than
those which are merely arranged under
treaty on a most-favored-nation and
preferential-treaty arrangements.
Some plan such as the European Bloc
plans, with a common set of organising
and co-ordinating bodies as depart-
ments and a kind of Cabinet on the
European Economic Community lines,
is now possible by reason of the
facilities of swift travel which are being
demonstrated so thoroughly by Mr.
Macmillan’s five weeks of journeying.
It would be feasible for such a body
to meet regularly and often. And it
would be salutary if it were created—
perhaps with the Prime Ministers and
other suitable members—to work out
a basic plan for the placement of
populations where they are strategically
and industrially needed and for orderly
use of the immense latent power
inherent in the undeveloped continents
which at present are so great a tempta-
tion to crowded Asiatic nations and
the Communist world.
The British Commonwealth countries
have everything to make them the
greatest influences in the world, in the
realms of thought and development and
orderly international living, except
one: unity of policy and the machinery
to act regularly in concert. At present
they are a ragged battalion in which
everyone has a different plan.


STRANGELY SIMILAR HOARDS
“Say, Mac, the stuff stashed away in here must be getting on to be worth as much as all the gold buried
in Fort Knox, Kentucky.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Living Costs Steady
Little excitement was aroused by tbe
Commonwealth Statistician’s cost-of-
living figures released on Friday. These
showed that the steadying tendency
shown in the figures for the three previous
quarters is still in evidence —a fact which
should be cheering news to the Federal
Government and no less so to the N.S.W.
Government, which, due to the shilling-
a-week drop in the State basic-wage, will
find itself about £300,000 better off for
the year.
The C-series index, which until 1953
determined variations in the Federal
basic-wage but is now in that respect an
indicator only, showed the equivalent of
a Is. fall in the wage for Sydney and
Melbourne; 2s. for Adelaide; 4s. for
Perth. The Brisbane figure was up 35..
and the Hobart rate was unchanged.
Only in Sydney has the C-series index
any direct application, the Cahill Gov-
ernment having (in 1955) retreated from
its earlier stand that quarterly adjust-
ments were a menace and restored them
for State awards and for all Government
employees. In Brisbane and Perth the
State Industrial Court decides whether
and to what extent the rise or fall in
the index-number should be applied to
the State wage. In the other three States
quarterly adjustments are not made.
Over the whole of 1957 the change in
the price-level on the basis of the C-series
index was equivalent in terms of the
basic-wage to a drop of Is. in Sydney,
3s. in Adelaide and Hobart, 4s. in Mel-
bourne ; and a rise of 2s. in Perth and 3s.
in Brisbane. This is a greater degree of
stability than has been experienced for
many years. It is a state of affairs which
all parties professed to be aiming at in
1952-53, when big quarterly variations
were causing concern. The A.C.T.U.
seems to have forgotten those days, and
is still seeking “restoration of quarterly
adjustments” while at the same time
expressing doubts as to the accuracy of
•the index whenever it records a fall.
Moving to Crisis
The Indonesian situation appears to be
moving to a crisis, due to the so-called
Government’s concern with “territorial
waters” as much as with West New
Guinea.
Soekarno and his Foreign Minister are
abroad trying to gather support, which
they seem to be gaining in curious places
—Egypt, Yugoslavia, Syria. Nasser
apparently has promised them help and
maybe a main underground channel
through which Russia, now seemingly his
temporary overlord and mentor, pipes aid
to Djakarta.
While Djakarta’s wandering boys make
their presence known in various parts of
the more disrupted regions along the
twilight borders of the Iron Curtain, the
schisms and difficulties of their homeland
are daily more apparent.
Djakarta is becoming accustomed to
the appearance of military forces, with
tanks and with aircraft overhead, which
make raids in suburbs or hold manoeuvres
which isolate the capital and appear to
have no described objective. The general
guess is that the military who form the
crust at least of the Government is en-
gaged on the nerve-racking job of prevent-
ing the volcano of Communism beneath
the surface from breaking through. Last
week’s “manoeuvres” seemed of a type
which might be expected in the case of
an outbreak of war.
The local schisms become more
apparent. The rebel region of the Celebes
is now something of an outlaw country
on its own. Most of Sumatra is in the
same position.
The outside world’s interest at present
is focused on Soekarno’s peremptory
announcement of December 14 that his
Government had decided to extend Indo-
nesian waters to 12 miles outside straight
baselines connecting the outermost
island-points of Indonesian territory.
Every trading-nation, including the
United Kingdom, Australia and the
United States, has warned Soekarno of
the possible results of this gross invasion
of the freedom of the seas, which appears
to be designed not so much to deal with
the Dutch shipping as to prevent the
barter-trading inside the rice-hungry
Indonesian islands of the rebel areas.
In effect, the Indonesians have taken to
piracy, and in view of the importance of
the trade-routes through the Indonesian
region it is to be wondered how long the
greater Powers will put up with the
arrogant illegalities of the Djakarta
Government.
Health Ministers Confer
State Health Ministers took their regular
summer holiday in Melbourne this year.
Last year they met in Hobart, and next
year they will confer in Brisbane.
Accompanied by their wives and senior
State health officials, they converged on
Melbourne last week. They managed to
sandwich in a two-day conference (it
really lasted only a day-and-a-half)
between luncheons, a civic reception, a
Government House reception and trips
around the countryside.
Conferences (at the taxpayers’ expense)
of this kind are quite the thing these days.
The Housing Ministers have a get-
together every now and again. So do
Transport Ministers. Not to be left out
of the party, the Education Ministers
plan 1 a convention in Melbourne in
March.
By a happy coincidence, Melbourne’s
bright Moomba festival will also be held
in March. Moomba, of course, is an
aboriginal word meaning “let’s get
together and have fun.”
The Health Ministers, during the few
hurried hours spent at the conference-
table, did make some important deci-
sions. They decided to seek a new deal
in rehabilitation of the mentally ill.
Victoria’s Health Minister Cameron,
conference chairman, explained that
senior mental-health officers in each State
would be appointed to investigate the
rehabilitation question.
This would include the establishment
of closed workshops, to take patients past
the occupational-therapy stage, and to
stimulate their absorption into industry.
The conference decided to ask the
Commonwealth to consider making avail-
able supplies of Salk-vaccine to doctors
in private practice to take the burden of
immunising adults away from the State
Governments. The Commonwealth will
also be asked for more funds for
teaching-hospitals.
Cameron said that teaching-hospitals
—Victoria had 10—wanted more money
to provide urgently needed facilities for
doctor-training. The States also want
the Commonwealth hospital-bed allow-
ance of Bs. increased.
A notable absentee from the confer-
ence was another Cameron Dr.
Cameron, the Federal Health Minister.
Officially the reason he could not come
was “pressure of work.” But a more
likely reason was the possible embarrass-
ment of having to deal, on the spot, with
so many requests for more Common-
wealth financial aid.
Defence Shortages
Some plain-speaking about Australia’s
share in the defence of South-east Asia
has come from British officers in Singa-
pore and has some realism behind it.
The situation seems to be little different
from that before the war. Then the
Labor party succeeded, in the main, in
calling the tune. There could be no
compulsory service outside the limits of
the continent —E. J. Ward and his
followers, in particular, even objected to
sending-away the Second A.I.F. on the
ground that it might be used as part of
the machinery of a plot to attack Russia.
The theory of these people then, as
now, was that Australia should only be
defended on its own soil, amid a welter
of burning towns and abandoned bush.
The outlook, under a different brand
of Government, has shown some move
towards realism since. We have at least
had some air units and a battalion in
Malaya. And our share was well done
in Korea, despite the strident protests
of Dr. Evatt and his friends. Our Air
Force in Malaya will be built up.
Senior British officers, it now appears
from press cables from Singapore, are
levelling the old accusations. Sydney
“Herald” reports that the gist of their
theme is that because of this country’s
size and strategic proximity the Com-
monwealth should be willing to maintain
one full brigade in the area, whereas
“with .much fuss and argument she has
contributed only one battalion.” One
spokesman said:
The trouble with Australians is that they
resent military direction from Britain, yet
decline to fill the gap for themselves in
virtually what is their own backyard.
Establishment of either British or Aus-
tralian forces in Malaya and Singapore,


or even North Borneo, on a long-term
basis is less practical politics than of
yore, though it is difficult to see why, if
the Americans have bases in the
Philippines, as in Britain, a British-
Australian base should not also be
established there.
So far as Australia is concerned, how-
ever, the situation is that with nearly
10,000,000 people it cannot even raise an
internal brigade-group for itself with
reasonable certainty, much less provide a
spare one to send abroad.
Major-General Kendall, the retiring
Commonwealth Director - General of
Recruiting, said a few days ago that the
Services had recruited about a third of
the 15,000 men and women it had been
estimated would be needed during 1957-58
to replace normal wastage. He said the
Army, Navy and Air Force were equally
affected, and there were acute bottle-
necks in skilled tradesmen who are vital
to the efficiency of the Services.
The big unions, of course, do all they
possibly can to interfere with the develop-
ment of Australian defence. The Com-
munist section are quite happy to leave it
to Khrushchev.
However, it is good news to hear from
Major-General Kendall that if we can
still do with our drop-in-the-bucket
defence at existing level in 1965, increase
of population may enable us to catch-up
to the present level required.
Clash
[From Westminster]
The precipitate resignation of the three
Treasury Ministers has weakened the
U.K. Government’s prestige, debilitated its
performance, and (immediately, at any
rate) enhanced the prospect of a Socialist
victory at the next general election.
It is not merely that Mr. Peter Thorney-
croft has the sympathy of the majority
of responsible observers. Much more
than that. He has their approval and
their backing. The point of disagree-
ment —a comparatively small matter of
£SO million above last year’s Estimates —
is neither here nor there. The real issue,
in simple terms, is this: Is the nation’s
economic policy to be firm, resolute and
uncompromising, or is it to be softened,
however lightly, by political exigencies
and fears? In other words, does the
Government really mean business in
fighting to save the pound and to arrest
inflation?
The pattern of recent years is all too
familiar. Policies have been formulated
and remedies have been promised. But,
with pathetic regularity, the spirit has
proved to be weak.
The new Chancellor of the Exchequer,
Mr. Heathcoat Amory, is a man-of-
business as well as a latecomer to politics
with a short but immensely successful
record. But both he and the Prime
Minister are at a disadvantage because
they have, as it were, to start all over
again.
Thorneycroft’s presence will also be
sadly missed in connection with the
MIKE TODD (AND JULES VERNE) LEFT STANDING!
tricky negotiations over Britain’s inclusion
in the European Free Trade Area —a
creative labor to which, as architect and
protagonist, he devoted much painstaking
energy when at the Board of Trade.
Chicken Hash
How does a “chicken” cross the road?
He doesn’t if Melbourne bodgies have
their way.
Hoodlums in high-powered “hot-rods”
have been terrorising other motorists in
and around Melbourne with the deadly
game of “chicken.”
The Royal Automobile Club of
Victoria is so concerned at this “sport,”
which originated in America, that it has
urged that convicted “chicken”-players
be banned from the roads for life.
R.A.C.V. president C. E. Clements
says that any driver who deliberately
endangers others is a potential killer who
should be denied the use of the roads. “I
feel that in the interests of the com-
munity these ‘chicken’-players should be
sent to jail and their licences cancelled
indefinitely,” he said.
From the pulpit of the Collins Street
Independent Church the Rev. Lyall
Dixon said: “The chicken game is
irresponsible, stupid and suicidal because
innocent people are often involved as
victims. The quicker it is stamped-out
the better.”
And how do courts react to all this?
Much too leniently, as recent cases show.
One young alleged “chicken”-player
drove at 50 m.p.h. along a busy Carlton
street, blocked an intersection, forced
two cars to swerve violently, chased
another car and forced it into the gutter,
then dashed off at high speed.
Penalty: £2O fine, licence suspended
for three months.
A second youth drove at from 45 to
50 miles an hour along a major road
at Moorabbin (an outer Melbourne
suburb), swinging to the wrong side as
cars approached and forcing three of
them off the road. Penalty: £3O fine
and licence cancelled indefinitely.
Meanwhile, thousands of motorists
each week are signing “drive-safely”
pledges, which the R.A.C.V. organised in
an effort to reduce the road-toll. This
move followed the deaths of 28 people
on Victorian highways in the Christmas-
New Year holiday period—the highest
on record.
The State Government is investigating
the need for a 24-hour traffic court, which
Police Commissioner Porter wants to deal
with motorists on drunken-driving
charges. The authorities all seem to agree
that the combination of alcohol and
speed is the cause of most road deaths.
Apparently Porter feels police would
get more convictions if alleged offenders
were taken straight from accidents to a
court so the magistrate could see their
condition for himself.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
TTE usually spent the ten-minute tea-
breaks studying chess-books, and was
deeply engrossed in a book by Heiden-
feld entitled Busts! which debunks some
generally-accepted chess theories, when
a bright girl noticed the title and voiced
surprise that he of all people should
read about such things. He patiently
explained that the book “tells you
how to improve your chess.” Bright
girl indignantly retorted: “My chest
doesn't need any improving” ; but me-
thinks the lady did protest too much.
—“XC.”
♦> *J»
“0.W.W.”: After leading a busy life
for many years a prim-and-proper rela-
tive of mine has found time for reading
and joined a library. The frankness of
modern novels gives her a lot of shocks.
The next person to borrow a book she
has read also gets a shock. Soon as she
comes to a purple patch she gums and
presses the page firmly on to its opposite-
number.
»x«
“Harbel”: So that’s the explanation, is
it —deaf people can often hear soft sounds
when they can’t hear loud (B. 25/12/’57)?
I once worked, and camped, with the
crankiest and deafest man I ever made
the mistake of trying to please. One wild
night a flap-rope worked loose and
flogged madly against the water-bucket.
It woke me and worried me till I got up
and tied the rope. Old Narky didn’t hear
it. Neither did he hear the alarm when
the mess-hut caught fire and everybody
else turned-out to form a bucket-chain.
Came the night when four of us returned
from a bit of fishing in the creek. The
others took off their shoes to avoid
disturbing their tentmates. I caused great
amusement by following suit. Two
seconds after I’d padded into the tent
a raucous snarl came from Narky’s bunk:,
“Walk soft, can’t y’! ”
“W.P.T.”: Roaming through a tiny
country cemetery at Rouse Hill between
Sydney and Windsor (N.S.W), I came
upon the well-kept grave of Henry
Fletcher, writer of The Way backs in
Town and at Home, Dads Way back, etc.
Born in London 100 years ago, Fletcher
arrived here in 1872 and died here in
1932. We remember Steele Rudd and
his outback characters, but the man who
gave us the Way backs seems to be
forgotten.
$
“Miss M.”: When an embarrassed
dinner-guest upset the shallow, three-
legged silver cream-jug, her host was con-
soling. “Don’t worry, it’s always falling
over, top-heavy little brute of a thing.
Some fool gave it to us for a wedding
present.” “Yes,” said the rueful guest, “I
was the fool.” “I know,” said the host
quickly; “I only said it to see if you’d
remember.”
»J+
“D. 8.”: The skipper of our ship was a
keen fisherman, and a line always trailed
over the stern. To the excitement
of all on board, he caught a
tuna weighing about 1801 b. Next
day, at six bells, there was more
excitement, as he rang “Stop” on the tele-
graph. The engines were stopped and the
line was drawn in, with everyone betting
on what the catch might be. The faces
of the crew dropped when they saw the
catch, for they knew that the Old Man
would be in a foul mood for days. Some
humorist had put the skeleton of the fish
caught the previous day back on the line.
♦!+
“Lorna Doone”: At the height of the
summer sales, with the thermometer over
the century, the most patient lift-girl in
our emporium called “All floors —going
UP.” At least three women said to her,
“Are you going up?” “Yes, madam,”
she replied, “going up ; all floors to the
sixth, then express to sputnik!”
£* *j
“W.P.T.”: Returning to Katoomba
from a trip by tourist-coach from
Orange, the driver took us up
on top of Mount Panorama, Bathurst,
driving through rows of campers’ tents.
Many were undressing inside the tents,
casting interesting silhouettes on the
walls. One lad who had been dozing sat
up suddenly when he saw the shadow-
show : “Look, Dad —television! ”
“I've put in three sixpences and haven't got a block of chocolate yet!”
FALLING UP, NOT DOWN
[A Drinking-song]
“A new international race between British,
Russian and American scientists may yield a
substance that falls upwards.”
Oh, buy yourself a foaming cup
Of beer both old and brown,
And drink a toast to falling up
Instead of falling down.
. The state of world-security
So ominous has grown
We must relieve its gravity
By falling up, not down.
The cost-of-living figures show
How high our money’s flown,
But we can catch inflation now
By falling up, not down.
And many notabilities
Well-known in Sydney Town,
Their only hope of Paradise
Is falling up, not down.
So buy another cup of foam,
Of beer both old and brown ;
Our only chance of getting home
Is falling up, not down.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


OVER the years I became used to
parrying facetious variations on “A
descendant of Daniel, J presume” when-
ever my name was noted, but these days,
where the tribe of Boone is concerned,
the backwoodsman is a backnumber.
Last week I ordered some goods from a
salesgirl and was told brightly, “I won’t
forget your name — I’ll just think of Pat! ”
To my shame and her horror I had to
ask “Who is Pat?” Who is Pat? Good-
ness, don’t you - listen to hit-parades,
either? —“No-e.”
❖
“Scutum”: Was leaning over the back
fence yarning with the mate while the old
truck’s innards were getting a good
going-over. On the subject of the car-
burettor, was abruptly interrupted by the
kids: “If it’s from a truck, why isn’t it
called a truckburettor?”
+*♦
“Bicky”: There are cry-rooms for
infants in most picture-theatres these
days, and now parishioners with young
children who attend Holy Spirit Roman
Catholic Church in East Thornbury
(Vic.) are provided with a similar service.
♦> ♦♦♦
“Sandra”: Dear' “8.A.K.,” I must
thank you for your hint (B. 1/1 / ’5B) about
the mince-pies, for my aim is to make
some really horrible mincies so that my
family will decide to cross them off the
Christmas menu. Next year I shall make
my mince four days before Christmas,
and buy the paste at the little shop around
the comer. Maybe that will do the trick.
If it does I will send you a piece of my
delectable Christmas-cake care of this
paper. In return for your hint may 1
point out that putting the pies together
takes much longer than making the
mince. Try making six-dozen sometime
when you have the house to yourself.
❖
“Sevenelms”: Wool-experts wet-
blanketed the plan of a Primary Pro-
ducers’ Union, N.S.W. branch, to send six
Australian women to show women in
China our purl-and-plain techniques so
that the daughters of Han might help to
keep us on the sheep’s back. Stich a
delegation might be received more rap-
turously in Moscow, particularly if they
crammed their reticules with spare-parts.
During the Melbourne Olympics, Nina
may have yearned for hats —bless her
little feminine heart —but she and her
sister-amazons spent their allowances on
steel knitting-needles numbers 12 and 13
with which they planned to produce socks
to replace the inelegant Alberts chafing
their Ivans and Vladimirs.
♦J*
“Uramao”: The licensing-issue evokes
little enthusiasm nowadays in Oamaru,
the largest No-licence town in N.Z. and
the only one in the South Island, but the
Pros and the Antis each had their
triumphs during the last general election.
It was first announced that restoration of
pubs had been carried ; there was mount-
ing in hot haste and the clattering cars
“ Don't dawdle along — We'll NEVER get home!”
and the main street recalled the jubila-
tion on Armistice-night. Both pubs on
the border of the No-licence area were
besieged by cars seeking the wherewithal-
to celebrate victory, but when the pure
dawn shone on the white stone city after
a night of purple and red it was announced
that the returning-officer had made an
error and that Restoration had been lost
by some 130 votes.
♦> ❖
“Alma”: A water-main broke in a
Sydney suburban street and within a
matter of moments a bloke had arrived
in his car and was industriously at work
with sponge and chamois.
*l* ♦>
“Dolphin”: Enjoyed the short story
“Pete’s Bank” (B. l/l/’5B) and was
pldhsed to note the Naussie author’s com-
mand of English. One sentence about
Paris I thought especially interesting:
“We never knew how we were going to
pay last week’s hotel-bill.” Fortunately,
the author will never face such a problem
in this country, ’cause our hotels
wouldn’t let such a problem arise; only
where he’ll get next week’s.
♦l*
“Myall”: Mary Kathleen (N.Q.), the
new uranium township, has one of the
most remarkable churches in the State.
Early in November the site on the hill
facing the town square was bare, but
the Bishop promised his church-folk that
the building would be ready for worship
by Christmas. Townsfolk of every de-
nomination rallied with cash and labor
and had the £4500 church completed,
ready for dedication, by the appointed
time. The Church of St. Augustine of
England is Mary Kathleen’s first church ;
the walls are almost entirely of glass
louvres to combat the heat, and it con-
tains a small flat for the visiting Bush
Brother. Anglicans, Roman Catholics,
Presbyterians and Methodists all contri-
buted to the building-fund, and heads of
those churches attended the opening
ceremony.
<s*
“XC”: As to the N.S.W. Public
Library (B. l/l/’5B) being “open 76 years
a week,” the “Canberra Times” of
January 2 carries the following breath-
taking offer:-
MOTORISTS! We can fit in a few panel
beating or duco spraying jobs before
Christmas if you hurry....
That’s real service for you. But perhaps
I’m imagining things and the plain,
modest ad. is referring to Christmas, 1958.
& ♦> *
“Croid”: “Dead men tell no tales” has
no meaning in television-programmes.
Nightly we have stories unfolded by
Leslie Howard, Warner Baxter and other
one-time film-stars who died many years
ago.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Piketrailer” (London): My company
was under command of the Parachute
Brigade during the cordon and search of
Lapithos, a town on the north coast of
Cyprus with a flourishing home-industry
of making and heaving water-pipe bombs.
At dusk all Greek Cypriot males who
had been through the screening teams
were released from their detention on the
baking football-field at the Gymnasium
and came trudging slowly up the narrow,
cobbled streets. As one weary and


unshaven column moved past my h.q.,
where the petrol-cookers roared under-
neath the all-in stew, I blinked a little at
the garb of one gnarled brown oldster
whose stiff, heavy peasant boots clumped
awkwardly on the stony track. I dived
into the throng and stared hard at his
coat. It was an old A.I.F. tunic, with the
familiar buttons proclaiming their map of
Aussie. Then I remembered that at
least 7 Aust. Div. Cav. was moved to
Cyprus in mid-1941 during the dark days
of the Greece-Crete era. Or am I wrong?
“Anne”: The church paper, reporting
habits of Americans: “Very few ministers
wear clerical clothes on Sundays, and
almost none on week-days.”
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Pip Tok”: Long before “clot” and
“drongo,” the vegetable kingdom sup-
plied “pumpkin-head,” “Carroty” and
“Carrots,” and “cauliflower-ear.” And
now an English lawsuit has provided a
new one: a woman who suffered from a
carelessly applied battery while under-
going beauty-treatment asked the court
for damages because, she alleged, the
treatment had given her a “potato-ear.”
♦>
“Retired Bagman”: “Warick” (B.
1/1 / ’5B) missed “took the count,” “broke
his hobbles,” “walked off camp.” Then
there was the sardonic bloke sorting his
gear before the Alamein show who won-
dered whether it was worth while putting
in a clean shirt. I’ve been told of some
old-time journal which ran its “Births,
Marriages and Deaths” notices under the
general caption “Hatched, Matched and
Dispatched.”
♦♦♦
“Curie”: In an American magazine-
story the father was desperate for money,
for a new car, a new fridge and improve-
ments to the sun-porch. Likewise, the
films. Scene: an American city. Time:;
Christmas during the depression. Father
was pacing the streets out of work,
sneaking a look at the newspaper when
the newsagent wasn’t looking. Next
scene: dejected parents sitting by small,
meagrely-decorated Christmas-tree. All
they had for the children was a 3ft.-
high doll for the girl and a new bicycle
for the boy.
♦> ♦>
“F. 8.”: ,£ Wusslean” (B. 25/12/ ’57)
translates Mardi Gras as Shrove Tuesday,
the day before Ash Wednesday, yet
“Wusslean” has one in December. Of
course the popular translation is just
Mardi Gras “beano,” but is he not
something like the bloke who calls
another “an uncouth cow”?
“W.M.”: The Comrnonwealth Bank
goes one better in its advertising than
the manufacturers of a toilet-soap which
enjoys the confidence of nine out of 10
Hollywood stars: an ad. broadcast over
a Sydney station declared that “more
than one out every two people have a
Commonwealth Savings Bank account.”
Evidently the .8 of the 3.8 persons per
household so beloved of statisticians.
*j<
“Van”: A young teacher in a
boarding-school for girls was supervising
a study-period in a class of 12-year-olds;
it was near exam.-time. A pretty little
thing rose to ask a question in her culti-
vated English tones. Teacher smiled en-
couragingly upon her as she hesitated.
“Miss Blank,” she said, “in the exams, if
you give us a question on Louis Hope
shall we just say Louis Hope improved
the sugar-industry in Queensland or must
we write the whole bloody lot?”
“Like a story and pictures of the Abominable Snowman?"
“El Arem”: I called to invite Joe to
the comer for a quick one. “Wait a bit
till I get me beer-money,” he said. “If I
leave it around what the missus doesn’t
take for bread or milk the kids pinch for
lollies and ice-cream. But I’m the only
mug likely to look in here,” he explained
as he dived into the bootbox and extracted
a crisp, green note from among the rags
and tins of polish.
* ❖ *>
“Pip Tok”: Lenders who have trouble
collecting repayments of unsecured
person-to-person loans might envy the
luck of a Perth friend who had endorsed
a cheque for £2, which he had to make
good when it bounced. The drawer, a
city salesman, evaded my friend for a
few days, but, cornered in a suburban pub
and confronted with the stumer cheque,
kindly offered to settle by drawing another
cheque. “Oh, don’t go to that bother,”
said my friend. “As it happens, I have
a monthly account with your firm. Meet
me here tomorrow with two quid, but
if I miss you it won’t matter. I’ll just
pay your firm’s bill for this month with
your cheque.” The meeting took place
as suggested.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Pelga”: Indian papers carry many
advertisements for cure-alls just as com-
prehensive as that described by “Penulis”
(B. 4/12/’57). But, after all, medicines
are expected to cure a disease or two, so
why cavil at a few extra? More enterpris-
ing, I think, are the ads for shampoos
and brilliantines. These don’t prosaically
confine themselves to promising scalp-
benefits, but also claim the power to
banish headaches and improve the eye-
sight.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Jib”: My father was waiting for me
at the bus-stop when he saw a man at
the bubbler taking mouthfuls of water
and spitting into a basin. Dad asked the
man if he intended to water his garden,
but he shook his head and went on with
his task. About five minutes later he
stopped and carried the basin along the
road t® a battered old truck, where he
proceeded to fill the radiator.
♦J, <s4
“Doric”: Having observed the gar-
goyles on Old World cathedrals, I look
in vain for them on Sydney’s buildings—
we have cupids and cornucopias, god-
desses and politicians, but nary a nice,
ugly gargoyle. It couldn’t be for want of
models to copy from.
<s* *
“Miss M.”: One of our aldermen, an
official guest at a school break-up, noted
restrained restiveness. Scraps of conver-
sation overheard enlightened him; the
kids had been invited to other junketings
elsewhere. His reflections on the crowded
social calendar of the modern youngster
were interrupted by his daughter’s
piercing treble: “If Daddy doesn’t make
a speech, we should get away on time.”
Daddy knows his place. They did.


TMTOST car-drivers have driven off with
the handbrakes still engaged, but I
very much doubt whether anyone else but
Jane has carefully released them every
time they came to a gate, got out, opened
the gate, applied brakes, driven through,
released brakes, shut the gate, reapplied
them and driven off for 16 miles with
repetitions of this routine at each of the
six gates on the way. She says she still
doesn’t know when the handbrake is off
or on—what her husband said when she
arrived home has confused her com-
pletely.—“ Roger Mike.”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Dicky”: As well as showing such
sympathy to the sick (B. 8/1 / ’5B), Italians
go in for mourning in a big way, the
women wearing black, and the men wear-
ing black arm-bands, for even the most
distant of connections, so that, particu-
larly in the south, a large portion of the
population seems to be in perpetual
mourning. Remarked to a southerner
that his people seemed to be always having
deaths in the family, causing him to shrug
nonchalantly, careless of his own black-
“On the beach I like it real loud."
band for some vague cousin, and remark,
“People are always dying.”
“Croid”: Those responsible for the
naming of our beauty-spots showed little
originality; there are two Bridal Veil
Falls on the Blue Mountains, one at
Leura and another at Blackheath ; there
are Weeping Rocks at Wentworth Falls
and Leura ; a Sublime Point at Leura
and another at Bulli Pass; Echo Point
(which, incidentally, has no echo) at
Katoomba and one at Bundanoon ; Three
Sisters at Katoomba and a’similar trio
at Kanangra Walls. The Grand Canyon
at Blackheath must evoke titters from
visiting Americans when they compare
it with their own mile-deep chasm of the
same name.
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Tom”: Scottish strong-man Donald
Dinnie would have appeared ordinary
beside Angus Macagskill, whom the
journalist John Harries McCulloch met
in Cape Breton in the 1920’5.
McCulloch states in his autobiography,
North Range, that Angus was 7ft. 9in.
tall, and could lift over his head an
anchor that weighed 21001 b. He lived in
the Bras d’Or Lake district of Cape
Breton Island (Nova Scotia), in a
community mainly descended from 18th-
century Jacobite exiles; a number of
them exceeded 6|ft. in height.
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦>
“Bird”: Talking of car color-schemes,
there are some beauts, in our town. A
very popular color is a pinkish fawn
which looks like raw meat. This is usually
combined with two shades of green,
though one vulgar little taxi has a band
of red. There is a grey utility patched in
tangerine, and a Volkswagen in pink and
grey, for all the world like a galah. If
cars are following the current fashion for
Victoriana —and Ronald Searle’s cartoons
of American cars with their long curly
fins make it appear so —we may soon see
them supplied with antimacassars.
❖ ❖
“Choices”: I don’t know what
“Penulis” is up to in Kuala Lumpur (B.
1/1/’5B) if he thinks the average cosmo-
politan Malayan is merely bilingual. It
is a rare Chinese who doesn’t know at
least three dialects, and an odd Indian
who is not acquainted with three Indian
languages. In addition everyone speaks
Pasar Melayu (colloquial Malay) and all
white-collar workers know English, too.
My filing-clerk from India, and Soo Ee,
my Chinese stenographer, between them
knew eight languages. It often happens
that two Chinese citizens will have to
converse in Malay, or a Bengali sell
insurance to a Tamil in English’, simply
because they have no common tongue
outside the two linguae francce of the
country.
❖ ❖ ❖
TT was one of those wedding-receptions
where grog had provided the
eloquence. The best man told everybody
how well he knew the bride: “Jean and I
went to school together; we’ve played
together, lived together ” The bride-
groom praised his mother-in-law, who
had “brought this lovely girl into the
world twenty years ago and has been
doing the same ever since!” —“Tabba.”
HORROR-SCOPE
“Beware of what you say today; and,
remember, those born under Taurus are always
inclined to talk not always discreetly or in
moderation.” —Astrological column.
We're often too inclined, l grant,
To paw the floor, to roar and rant
After some chappie
Has left us limp and woebegone
At cocktail-party, drooling on
And on, word-happy.
The tripe he peddles- we dissect.
To find it simply does reflect
With accuracy an intellect
Distinctly scrappy.
And so, perforce, we slate the cow
With vigor, yet,
Let’s not forget
For certain things we must allow.
At night, to your convenient ear
Your voice-starved missus will adhere
Too long, too closely,
Bashing that organ, while you try
To shut the sounds out, as a sigh
You heave, morosely.
She’ll yap of Mrs. Upstreet’s brat,
The goings-on in Nexdoors’ flat;
Uncle Fred’s boils/and Daphne’s hat —
All most verbosely.
Yet is it, after all, her fault
That she can’t find .
It in her mind
Just when to call the welcome halt ?
She (and of course the cocktail-clot)
Are victims of a deep-laid plot
To rile and bore us;
And they’re but two who gab and gas;
The rest have grown into—alas !
A mighty chorus.
In fact, it seems there’s quite a case
To claim that half the human race
Must, as their Zqdiac-sign, embrace
The one named Taurus
(The Bull—and in astrology,
I will affirm
No other term
Could be more apt — don’t you agree ?)
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


POLTICAL POINTS
It was too much to expect that Moscow
would let Mt. Everest have the monopoly
of Abominable Snowmen. A Russian
expedition in Central Asia claims to have
seen several of ’em in the Omsk region.
One that was investigated closely “did
not wear any clothes and was covered
with reddish-grey fur.” Couldn’t have
been Molotov —no moustache.
• •
Both the A.W.U. and the W.W.F. are.
staunch advocates of a nationalised
shipping - service. Yet because of a
squabble between the two unions a vessel
belonging to the Australian National Line
was held up in Brisbane for a fortnight at
a cost of over £7OOO.
• •
Defending counsel in a Melbourne
dangerous-driving case said his client
never touched drink as a rule but that on
the night in question he had been “plied
copiously” with it. Police evidence said
the bloke had had 50 beers. There must
have been some pretty good pliers on
the job.
• •
Although Sydney has at last decided
to conform with the rest of the world
and to change its trams for buses, not
so Melbourne! The Victorian capital
clings to its street-railways. And just to
prove that the Melbourne tram is here to
stay, the Tramways Board is now spend-
ing a fortune by setting all tramlines in
concrete.
In 1955, when more enlightened City
Fathers overseas were tearing up tram-
tracks and putting on buses, Melbourne
scrapped the buses in Bourke Street and
put down a new tramline that cost
£1,750,000. The effect was-to reduce
the width of this busy city street by a
third. Traffic has been chaotic ever
since.
• •
Unemployment figures in the United
States are reported at 3,374,000, the
highest for seven years. A month ago
the McGraw-Hill service foretold that
the figure would rise to 3.6 million during
this half-year, declining in the second
half to 3.4 million. This, commented
the service, is still classified by labor-
analysts as full-employment.
• •
Nominatiohs as Liberal candidate for
the Parramatta by-election will close on
February 3. It isn’t clear yet whether
Labor will run a candidate. Provided the
D.L.P. keeps out of the field it may
prefer to give the Libs, a walkover at
the by-election and save its campaign-
funds for the general election at the end
of the year.
• •
As part of a plan to “take the Gov-
ernment to the people” the Queensland
Cabinet will hold a meeting at Too-
woomba on February 4 ; later in the year
there’ll be a meeting in North Queens-
land, either at Townsville or Cairns.
• •
Adelaide industrialist S. Barton Pope,
just back from America, thinks the
sputniks and the failure of some American
missiles may have been a blessing in dis-
guise to the U.S. Government, because
they have put the American public in a
mood to retain high taxes to assist
scientific research. He says he believes
that U.S. rocket failures have been
deliberately publicised to arouse this
feeling.
• •
Australia’s trade surplus for the six
months to December 31 was £65.9 million
compared with £95.9 million for
the corresponding period of the
previous year. Lower wool-prices
were the chief factor in the
decline. Export earnings were £95 million
in October, dropping to £B3 million
in November and £70.5 million in Decem-
ber. Imports also declined from the
October peak of £72 million to £65 million
in November and £62 million in Decem-
ber. Under the influence of drought con-
ditions a further fall in imports may be
expected in the current quarter.
• •
There’s been much talk lately about
the inappropriateness, of many references
to “the free world.” Prize for the most
unlikely use of the term goes to the
bloke who transcribed a cable last week
and had Khrushchev saying that Russia
and its allies had greater strength than
“the free world.”
• •
Tenders will be called soon for work
on some sections of the new standard-
gauge railway from Melbourne to
Albury. More than 200 men are now
doing preparatory- and survey-work for
the new project, which is expected to cost
£lO million, with the Commonwealth
paying £7 million and New South Wales
and Victoria £l| million each.
The two State Governments estimate
a saving of almost £2 million a year
when trains start running direct between
Sydney and Melbourne. They expect the
service to attract millions of pounds’
worth of new business at the expense of
the road-hauliers.
• •
The Newcastle (on Tyne, not Hunter)
corporation just before Christmas offered
the public £5 million of six per cent, stock,
-1973-76. A rush of applications for £l4O-
million-worth followed. Only a few days
before there were £675-million-worth of
applications for £4l-million-worth of six
per cent, convertible debenture-stock
offered by British Petroleum. As Mr.
E. F. Hill, one of the leading exponents of
Communist theory in Australia, said in
the “main report” to the Communist
Party Central Committee: “Capitalism
is in a state of thoroughgoing collapse.”
• •
Australian court decisions are now
ipclyded in law-school studies in Britain
and America. This was disclosed recently
by Sholl, J., of the Victorian Supreme
Court. He said it proved the high repu-
tation Australian courts had won over-
seas.
Judge Sholl had just returned from
eight months’ judicial leave, which he
spent visiting 12 countries. He found
that Australian court procedure was well
up to date, but juries for civil cases had
practically disappeared in England. They
did not appear to be missed.
• •
During December about 10,000 Dutch
subjects left Indonesia, and according to
a Dutch Government statement another
9000 are expected to leave this month.
By the end of January it is anticipated
40 per cent, of Dutch nationals who were
in Indonesia at the beginning of
December will have left the country.
• •
“G. Elburg”: Debate on the banking
bills recalled King O’Malley’s first
appearance in the political life of
Australia.
“The King” was elected to me Legislative
Assembly of South Australia as member for
Encounter Bay. Women had just gained the
vote and it was said that O’Malley kissed every
baby in the district. An exaggeration, of course;
several mothers refused to rouse their infants
from sleep to be tickled by the O’Malley
whiskers.
Anyway, O’Malley was elected by a substantial
majority. He was a decided novelty in South
Australia’s legislature, and we young
Adelaideans would toss to decide whether we
would go to Tommy Hudson’s Bijou (later the
Tivoli) or to Parliament House to hear the
member for Encounter Bay in full cry. How-
ever, there was something more than his
deliberate buffoonery in O’Malley. He found
that female assistants in the big stores had to
stand all day, wjiether serving customers or not.
His eloquent appeal that chairs be provided
behind the counters was supported by a majority
of the House.
Although he was a non-smoking teetotaller
“The King” was popular in the smoking-room
of the Assembly, where he would entertain and
astound fellow-members with rip-roaring
anecdotes of his experiences in Canada and the
United States. And he would tell stories against
himself.
He visited Western Australia; I think to help
Labor in a general election. Speaking to a big
goldfields audience one night he sought to
emphasise the straits to which men on the
goldfields were put to earn a crust. He told
how he had met a man kncPwn to him as being
well-off in an eastern State. “What, ladies and
gentlemen, did I find this unfortunate man
reduced to to get a meagre living?” Lowering his
voice dramatically, he answered his question.
“He was fly-blowing !” His audience, to whom
dry-blowing was a well-known phase of the
industry, howled with laughter.
The Sofith Australian Parliament declined as
a place of popular entertainment when King
O’Malley transferred to the Federal sphere.


Prime Minister Macmillan
touched-down at Richmond
R.A.A.F. station (N.S.W.) for
an hour on Monday, then
resumed his flight to New
Zealand. His official visit to
Australia begins next week.
• •
Rumors about the taming of
the H-bomb and its harnessing
for peaceful purposes are to- be
clarified on Saturday when
simultaneous statements will
be made in Britain and
America. Announcing this,
the U.K. Atomic Energy
Authority said that since 1956
there had been complete
exchange of information in
that field between the two
countries. This collaboration
“naturally included consulta-
tion on the timing of any
announcement of results obtained.” There
seems to be no doubt that Thonemann
and Fisher have done a certain amount
of H-bomb taming. The statements
should tell just how much —also how
much more remains to be done before
the brute is broken-in to harness.
• •
The Loan Council meeting fixed for
February 13 is a one-day-only job.
Queensland Treasurer Hiley is suggesting
another meeting to discuss drought-
finance problems.
If any real differences of opinion
existed between the leaders of the third
and fourth parties to trek to the South
Pole they were no doubt ironed-out at the
meeting of Fucffs and Hillary at the
bottom of the world. It is unfortunate
that what had been intended as a private
message from the New Zealander to the
Englishman should have been given wide
publicity so as to become magnified into
a competition in judgment between the
two men.
• •
J. D. Kenny, assistant secretary of the
N. S. Wales Labor Council, commenting
on the ls.-a-week drop in the N. S. Wales
basic wage:
Current price-levels of commodities in
the C-series index led workers to believe
that the quarterly figure would disclose an
increase of at least ss.
What workers were led to believe that?
And on what statistics did they base their
calculations?
• •
On the slender evidence of a cabled
report that the U.K.’s P.M., Macmillan,
had met Indonesian President Soekarno in
New Delhi, Packer Junior wrote a column
in the Sydney “Daily Telegraph” headed
“Has U.K. Sold Out Australia?” in
which he said that “many Australian
officials, consider it a piece of impertinence
for Mr. Macmillan to have discussed West
New Guinea in the absence of Australian
representatives.” It would be interesting
to know which Australian officials gave
GROUND-TO-AIR MISSILES NEEDED!
[Twenty-two C.M.F. members went into camp at Mt. Royal, near Singleton (N.S.W.),
at the weekend to attempt to cope with the mosquito problem. Singleton is on the
Hunter River, which breeds the notorious “Hexham Greys.”]
Master Packer that exclusive story; no
other Australian paper published it.
While in New Delhi Macmillan and
Soekarno were fellow-guests at dinner.
Soekarno would not have been Soekarno
if he hadn’t used the occasion to attempt
to draw Macmillan on the West New
Guinea question. He tried twice, once
during dinner and again afterwards. The
sum total of his success was a polite
brush-off. Macmillan reported the in-
cident to Canberra the same day.
• •
There are seven candidates for the
Warren by-election for the W.A.
Assembly, to be held next Saturday. The
A.L.P., Liberal and Country League,
Country party and the D.L.P. are each
putting up a candidate, and there’ll also
be an Independent Liberal and two Inde-
pendents. The vacancy was caused by
the resignation of E. K. Hoar, who held
the seat for Labor (unopposed) from
1948 until his appointment last month
as Agent-General in London. The tally
could be close when prefs. are distributed.
Although Labor has not been opposed in
recent elections, it is recognised that the
retiring member’s personal following was
a big factor in this.
• •
Unemployment figures for the month
of December were the highest since 1954.
At December 31 there were 26,005
persons in receipt of unemployment
benefits, an increase of 6223 for the
month. At the same date the number
registered for employment at the Com-
monwealth Employment Service was
58,853, an increase of 7226. Although
these figures reflect a somewhat greater
decline that can be explained by seasonal
slackness, they are nothing on which to
base panic demands for drastic changes
of policy. For proper perspective they
should be contrasted with the figures for
the United States on the opposite page.
• •
There has been a considerable change
in the plans for the standard-gauge line
between Albury and Melbourne. Instead
of converting one of the sft. 3in. tracks
between Broadmeadows and Mangalore
to 4ft. gauge a separate line will be
built, running parallel to the old tracks
most of the way. From Mangalore to
Wodonga a new 4ft. B|in. line will be
built alongside the present single sft. 3in.
line. It has also been found that there is
no room to build a third' track alongside
the existing line from Broadmeadows to
Spencer Street, so the new line will make
a detour through Albion, Sunshine and
Footscray. There’ll be a new passenger-
terminal at Spencer Street, and a goods-
terminal at Dynon.


There's a TAA
flight to suit YOU!
Whenever you travel, wherever you travel, there’s always a
TAA VISCOUNT flight to suit you. For your convenience,
TAA operates daily jround-the-clock Viscount flights, between
all states. From as far north as Cairns, to Hobart in the south,
right across the nation to Perth in the west, you can fly TAA Viscount.
More people fly TAA the friendly way
Reservations: TAA Booking Offices in all States or an/ authorised Travel Agent.
NPVSIt
PERSONAL ITEMS
Lloyd Berrell, who died at sea while on
the way to London, was among the best
of Sydney’s actors. His most notable
recent performances were Roo in “The
Doll” ; and Claudius in “Hamlet,” and
Tunbelly in “The Relapse” during the
Paul Rogers season at the Elizabethan.
One remembers him for rather more than
that, however —for intelligent and highly
entertaining performances going back
for quite a. while, including his role in
“Anna Christie,” and his bibulous uncle
in “The Happy Time,” to name a couple.
Only 31 when he died —although the
force and maturity of his acting over the
last several years would have suggested
that he was older —he was much in
demand for radio work and played in
several films.
• • -<
W. L. Moss has been appointed chair-
man of the State Savings Bank of
Victoria. Moss succeeds Albert Ek
Hocking, who retired because he believes
the post should rotate among the com-
missioners. Moss was deputy-chairman
to Hocking. He is a former chief-presi-
dent of the Victorian Country Party, and
is president of the Numurkah shire. His
new ]ob carries an allowance of £BOO a
year.
• •
“Bicky”: With the passing of James
Squair Forman, at 85, in Melbourne
recently, we lost one of the world’s lead-
ing calligraphists—a rare craft in this age
of ballpoint scrawl. Forman, whose
penmanship will be perpetuated by the
17,000 names he inscribed in the Book of
Remembrance at the Melbourne Shrine,
wrote illuminated addresses for members
of the Royal family, Sir Winston
Churchill and other famous people.
Calligraphy was his hobby.
• •
John William Evans, Director of Aus-
tralia’s oldest and largest natural-history
museum the Australian Museum,
William and College Streets, Sydney
is an entomologist who has held a
number of big’ jobs in his field, but none
of them has given him the satisfaction
he gets from his present one. An
Englishman, born m India m 1906 and
educated at Wellington College and Carm
bridge (Jesus College), Dr. Evans was
with C.S.I.R. from 1926 to 1934, was
chief biologist for the Tasmanian Depart-
ment of Agriculture from 1934 to, 1943,
J. W. EVANS
senior entomologist at the Common-
wealth Institute of Entomology, London,
from 1943 to 1948, and from then until
his appointment here in 1954 was in
charge of the scientific branch of the
British Ministry of Aericulture and
Fisheries. But a good deal of his pro-
fessional life had been concerned with
insects as pests, whereas his interest is
more in what makes them tick —the
research side of the Australian Museum
is an important one, in all departments.
Another reason, he says, is that he had
always wanted to live in Sydney.
• •
David Rowbotham: So the
immemorial typewriter upstairs at Old
Dene, Becksley, Sussex, has stopped
thumping. I find myself almost thinking
that Philip Lindsay will have taken it into
the silence with him ; for he had a rough
personal affection for the old machine,
which he maltreated vigorously. When
I knew him in 1950-51 he was writing
with it at the rate of two books a year —
typical of the output (backed by careful
research and liveliness of mind) with
which he, -an Australian, so successfully
challenged the best English popular
historical novelists on their own pitch.
Phil typed heavily with one solid fore-
finger, driving each word resoundingly
home while he smoked fulminously, a
great grubby own-rolled cigarette, obese
as a cigar, clutched in
his left hand. Phil and
his wife, Isobel, gave
me food and refuge at
Old Dene —a Tudor
cottage with a remark-
ably romantic-contra-
b a n d appearance —-
when my spirits and
funds in England were
at their lowest. Phil re-
vived me with barrel-
cider, regaled me with
stories, heaping wood
on the roaring fire in
the room with the case-
ment windows, the
long line of Walter
Scotts (he admired
Scott most argumentatively), the ribald
pirates of Norman Lindsay on the wall,
and the huge red-haired hound, Ned
Kelly, asleep near his slippered feet.
. “Strewth!” he said when I told him I
had come to England to write —it was a
oerfect prediction, of conclusion, for I


wrote nothing there. And he slapped his
knee in sheer delight at my use
(occasioned by the cider) of the emotive
Australian word “shickered” ; his demon-
strative appreciation of things Australian
was part of his nostalgia. He wanted to
return here, but somehow his wish never
managed to father the deed. He spoke
of such old friends as Kenneth Slessor
and Robert D. Fitz Gerald, and with a
keen knowledge of the work of younger
Australian writers, with which he was
kept “in touch” per correspondence with
Norman and by Australian literary
visitors to London who popped down to
Sussex to see him. Callers in recent
years included Rosemary Dobson, Guy
Howarth and Douglas Stewart.
I have not yet met anyone acquainted
with Old Dene and the personality it so
aptly housed who could not expound on
the forthright hospitality and charm of
both. The only time I ever saw Phil’s
rugged bonhomie dissolve was when he
mentioned taxation. Hadn’t the business
of living been taxing enough? But —as
the title of his autobiography, I’d Live the
Same Life Over, suggests —he would not
have wished it altered, except for the
removal of the Chancellor of the
Exchequer.
• •
Francis Taylor Luscombe (herewith),
manager of the Bank of New South
Wales’ Brisbane office, is a descendant
(on his mother’s side) of Commissary-
General William Broughton, who came
out with the First Fleet, was Acting
Governor-General of Tasmania for a
time, and later had two grants of land
—Lachlan Vale and Macquarie Vale —-
around Appin (N.S.W.). Frank Lus-
combe joined the old City Bank of Sydney
at Coff’s Harbor (N.S.W.) in 1912, enlisted
in the A.I.F. in 1915, served with the 2nd
Bn. and Ist Machine Gun Company, and
was commissioned and transferred to the
21st Coy. after the Battle of the Somme.
He returned to Australia in 1919, a few
years later was manager at Delungra,
then at Dunedoo, where he stayed on as
F. T. LUSCOMBE
2 i/c when the A.B.C. was amalgamated
with the Wales. Accountant at Coona-
barabran, manager at Warren, he came
to Sydney relieving at the central in-
spector’s office in 1937, and the next year
went to Western Australia, where he was
manager at Bruce Rock and Kalgoorlie
and assistant-manager at Perth. He was
relieving-manager at Perth on four
occasions—once for 12 months —reliev-
ing-manager Melbourne, relieving sub-
manager Sydney, relieving-manager King
and George Streets, Sydney, in charge of
Brisbane audit, relieving Central Inspec-
tor’s Office, Sydney, relieving-manager
Adelaide, and relieving Western Inspec-
tor’s Office, Sydney, between 1942 and
1949, when he became manager at the
King and George Streets branch, Sydney ;
he was relieving-supervisor, Tasmania,
the same year. He became manager of
the Brisbane office in 1954. A paragraph
in The Bulletin of June 18, 1952, con-
cerns another member of the family who
served his country well—his son, Captain
Brian Luscombe, killed in Korea when his
Auster spotting-aircraft was riddled by
enemy ground-fire and crashed into the
side of a cliff above the Imjin River.
• •
H. H. Hibbert has retired after 50
years with Birt and Company, 20 as a
director. G. P. Johnson takes his pi,ace
on the board.
• •
Pat Lawlor: Of the 61 honors allocated
to New Zealand in the New Year’s List
three were knighthoods. Sir Kenneth
Gresson’s title came on the eve of his
appointment as president of the N.Z.
Court of Appeal. He is 66, and fought
in War I. Sir William Hale (74) has been
a stalwart in the dairy industry for many
years. Sir Ernest Marsden (68), pioneer
worker in atomic physics, was born in
England, came to New Zealand, and since
1914 has played his part in education in
the Dominion. He is a veteran of both
World Wars. The C.M.G. went to Dr.
D. D. McKenzie, the noted brain-
surgeon. There were three C.B.E.s —one
to the veteran Labor journalist, Hon.
J. T. Paul, and the others to J. P. D.
Johnsen, Comptroller of Customs
(1954-57), and E. D. Wilkinson,
prominent local-body man. 0.8.E.s and
minor orders were spread with deserving-
cum-political discrimination among mili-
tary, seafaring and public-minded citizens
to the number of 56. There were no
complaints.
• •
Hal Hovendene, sketched at The
Bulletin the other day, has recently
completed 50 years’ service with Mac-
dougalls Pty., Ltd., Sydney, the typewriter
people. He started there on the tradi-
tional five-bob a week, and for some years
now has been a director, specialising in
the sales-development of office-machines.
He is active in all sorts of good causes,
particularly Legacy, and was one of the
original supporters of the Nuclear
Research Foundation. In War I he served
at Anzac, was later commissioned from
the ranks in France, and was Intelligence
Officer with the 4th Battalion at the
H. HOVENDENE
finish. After the Armistice he was given
an interesting job rehabilitating Belgian
areas, and spent sotne time in Germany
in connection with this work. In the
Hitler war he was appointed Overseas
Commissioner for the A.C.F. and served
in an honorary capacity in the Middle
East, Ceylon, Italy and other overseas
areas. He has lectured and contributed
a good deal to press and radio on subjects
in which he takes a special interest, and
was recently honored by the Queen for
“Outstanding service to ex-Service
personnel.”
• •
Into the Silence:
At sea off Western Australia, Trevor
McDonald Hawker, pastoralist, of Mt. Rupert
(W.A.). Served as a pilot in the Royal
Flying Corps in War I.
In Sydney, at 70, Dr. Allan Seymour Walker,
medical editor of the Australian Official War
History of World War 11. Between .1952 and
1957 he published Clinical Problems of War,
Middle East and Far East, and The Island
Campaigns, and had almost completed a fourth
volume. He served in War 11, and was twice
mentioned in dispatches.
In Adelaide, at 72, Horace Collins, a well-
known S.A. pastoralist. He was much sought
after as a Merino judge at country shows.
In Perth (W.A.), A. E. (Bert) Officer, Old
Digger, sportsman, and Deputy Director Com-
monwealth Investigation Service, Perth. A
colleague referred to Bert as a man who fought
and worked hard in the interests of his country.
In Sydney, at 67, Frank Goldberg, founder
of the Goldberg Advertising Agency. Founded
in Wellington (N.Z.) in 1912, today it is one
of the largest advertising-agencies in the
Commonwealth.
In Adelaide, at 80, Robert Crompton, one
of S.A/s leading breeders of Jersey cattle,
which he regularly exhibited at leading shows.
Life-member of the Royal Agricultural and
Horticultural Society, and former secretary
of the Ornithological Society of S.A.
In Sydney, Commander Edward J. Owen,
R.N.R., notable Welsh scholar. A former
president of Cymdeithas Gymreig (the Welsh
Society of Sydney) and senior vice-president of
the Celtic Society, he was also a life-member
and trustee of the North Sydney sub-branch
of the R.S.S.A.I.L.A.
In Sydney, at 92, Samuel G*eorge Fitz-
Simons, late of the Customs Department. Born-
in Northern Ireland, he had lived in Sydney
for 70 years.


ABORIGINALITIES
MY host says to his wife: “On your way
to get the mail, will you put the
cattle into the lucerne paddock?”
“All right, we’ll take the truck,”
answers Beth. “They ignore the car.”
I don’t doubt my friend’s ability to
muster 70 Herefords off 1000 hilly acres
in a motor-vehicle, but am curious as
to method.
The truck, to which four-year-old Dick
presently leads me, had been a tourer of
high quality around 1930. Now it has a
table-tray where the back seat was, no
hood, and a swarm of knobs on the dash-
board which Beth manipulates with the
authority of an organist.
“Spark,” I decipher, peering at the
nearest knob.
“It’s really the choke,” says she, deli-
cately adjusting one marked “C” —the
throttle, it turns out.
The engine has a distinctive sound
which, I am soon to learn, even cattle
recognise, but it starts and runs willingly
enough.
We bump along the track into the
cattle-paddock. Dick, standing perilously
upright on the seat, scans the country-
side and reports, “Cows down the gully,
Mum.”
Beth declutches, revs the engine noisily,
blows the horn and shouts, “Cow! Cow!
Cow! ”
Dick says, “All right, they’ve heard.”
We drive the length of the paddock,
tooting and calling the while. White faces
appear, hurrying towards us from every
point of the compass.
Beth says, “I’ll open the gate, it takes
knowing.”
I believe her. It’s a fearsome double-
contraption of wire and rabbit-netting.
She has just begun unhooking the netting
when the first cows arrive, to begin
milling round her and bellowing in her
ear. I can see their intent towards her is
not hostile, but they horn each other
savagely—and suppose that one breathing
down her neck should be suddenly
pushed from behind!
Reinforcements arrive and hide her
completely. Just as the suspense becomes
unbearable, her head appears. She is now
wrestling with the lever that holds the
gate proper. Dick hops off the truck,
picks up a large stick and strides into the
red-and-white whirlpool, laying about him
and shrilling abuse. Soon he can be
seen adding his small weight to his
mother’s. All at once the pair jump
clear as the released lever flies up. The
gate collapses, and they leap to drag it
aside as the bovine torrent crashes through
the gateway.
When the last beast is belly-deep in
lucerne, I venture down to help in the
back-breaking task of closing the gate.
“Men,” explains Beth dispassionately,
going through her starting-routine with
the organ-stops, “think a wire-gate’s no
good if a woman can close it. When it
gets as loose as that, they tighten it up.”
She seems unscathed. I remember,
with something like relief, her dread of
spiders.
Margaret Lorraine.
* * *
“Sebak”: No doubt that apiarist who
came “veiled, gloved and armed with a
~ skep” to take a swarm of bees (B.
11/12/’57) was doing it the right way,
but in my youth, when almost everyone
added any stray swarm to his couple of
hives, things weren’t done so scientifically.
If our neighbors knew what a “skep” was
they never told me, so I still don’t know.
They did teach me, though, that the
correct thing to do on seeing or hearing a
swarm on the wing was to grab a kero.-
tin and bash it with a stick until the
swarm settled. The theory was that the
noise prevented the queen from hearing
the buzzings of her followers, so she sat
down to listen. - Correct or coincidental,
the Swarm did generally suspend itself
from some nearby branch, whereupon
the swarm-taker got a butterbox,
sprinkled the inside with bay-rum (if
available), and, holding the box under
the swarm, snipped-off the branch. A
crude and unscientific method compared
to that apiarist’s gentle tapping of the
branch. It did, however, have one slight
advantage—the bees finished up in the
box, not on the apiarist.
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: With due respect to
Oliver Filter (B. l/l/’5B) hemp, coir-
manila or cotton rope is classified by
circumference, but wire-rope, whether
holding up the Golden Gate bridge (14in.)
or winching in the karris at Kendinup
(l|in.) is called by its diameter. That
prima donna of the woods, the spar-tree
climber, depends on a waist-rope of
manila (circ.) which embodies a core of
3/16 in. wire rope (dia.).
* * * *
“Warick”: The little outback church
was filled for the confirmation-service,
but the organ refused duty. Inspection
revealed a dead rabbit underneath the
foot-pedal.
* * * »
“Manamoi”: Airline-pilots are often
envied by people in more humdrum
occupations, but they themselves find
flying the same aircraft over the same
route at the same time, height and speed,
flight after flight, monotonous in the
extreme. At least, so said my informant,
a pilot who’d thrown-up his glamorous
job for more adventurous flying with an
aerial-agriculture firm. It’s to be hoped
The Bulletin, January 22, 1958




“What’s the quarrel about , boys?"
he never startled his passengers as he did
our usually phlegmatic neighbor, Jim,
whose crop of linseed he was dusting.
Jim had agreed to act as marker during
the operation. As he took up his first
position, the company’s representative
advised, “When he’s well started on his
run, move on to your next mark. You
don’t want to stay there till he flies over
you.” “That’s all right.” said Jim, “I’ll
squat down.” So he did —for the first
two runs. For the third, he squatted
against a fence-post, and heard, even
above the roar of the engine, the top wire
twang above his head as the Beaver’s
wheels brushed it. Thereafter he took the
rep.’s advice.
* * * *
“Stanus”: In sleeper-cutters’ camps in
the Pilliga scrub (N.S.W.), when living
conditions were rugged there, a boiled-
duff for Sunday dinner was a “must.”
If liberally laced with fruit it was a
boiled-duff proper ; but if the fruit was
omitted the mixture of flour, suet, sugar
and treacle, boiled in a cloth, was
reduced in status to a “sawduster.”
* * * *
“Ophir”: It has been claimed in these
pages that pythons aren’t able to disgorge,
but I’ve seen several instances —the most
outstanding at the old weaner-yards on
Moona Creek (W.Q.). A python had a
buck rabbit down to the hips. The snake
was wheezing horribly, its eyes dull, the
, scales on the back of its neck spread wide,
the skin underneath taut and glossy, and
it was pushing its upper and lower jaws
forward alternately to get a grip and
heave in ; it was also shoving with a coil
at the end of his tail. Then one of the
stockmen prodded it with the handle of
his whip—and Joe shot that rabbit out
instantly, swung its head to face the man
who’d prodded it, and with its lower jaw
flapping like a hingeless door, slid away
in a hurry, a couple of whip-cracks along
its back speeding its departure. Bunny
was beyond recovery.
* * * *
“Miss M.”: As some people collect
stamps, so a member of our family
collects a certain type of ambiguous
saying. Common examples are: “I got
bit with a spider,” “kicked with a horse,”
“hit with a bike,” “I’ll take an egg to my
tea.” A farmer’s wife whose husband
had disposed of his piggery contributed,
“My hubby’s gone out of pigs,” and a
bush neighbor the gem of the collection:
“Can I get a bit o’ meat orf y’? Mine’s
gone bad on me.”
* * * *
“Dolphin”: Leeton, in the Riverina, is
ideally located for picking up inter-State
radio-programmes. At the cannery one
morning a bloke raced in, astounded to
find that he was late for work. “But I
left home as usual when the seven-o’clock
pips sounded,” he said in bewilderment.
He had inadvertently tuned-in to a South
Australian station, 30 minutes behind
N. S. Wales.
* * * *
“H.C.8.”: No tradition dies so hard
in rural districts as the objection to
buying drinking-water. In the old days—
and, of course, remote places in present
times —a dry tank was, and is, very little
short of tragedy ; but in these days of
motorised transport and closer-settle-
ment an empty tank is not the end of
everything. Let the tank get low, how-
ever, and a morguelike gloom descends
over the household ; twice-daily rapping
of rungs takes place ; recriminations and
denials are flung back and forth savagely ;
and the restriction grows ever tighter,
as though the house were a raft in an
uncharted ocean. Meanwhile the carrier
offering to overflow the tank with good
water for a fiver can bet he won’t get any
business until the second-last rung sounds
hollow. Queer that we can be so
niggardly over buying a thousand gallons
of water that will last for months, yet
never grudge the same amount spent on
a few gallons of juice for the car. Now,
if petrol dropped as the gentle rain from
heaven, and water was sold in bowsers ...
* * * *
“Q. Ree”: Young Fijian girls,
decorated with crepe-paper streamers
and flowers, go from house to house at
New Year singing and dancing. They all
used to call on us, but rarely do now.
I wondered at our unpopularity, as I had
always been generous with them and our
children loved it. Then we woke up.
We have a dog that makes a lot of
noise, and most Fijians are terrified of
them.
* * * *
“N.1.G.”: As the semi-social monthly
meetings of the local Rabbit Board
seemed unable to talk bunny out of his
established love of large families, a body
of ratepayers expressed their criticism in
straight statements, by letter. The sub-
sequent meeting to consider the board’s
reply brought forth pungent comment on
the statement that “the ratepayers did not
co-operate.” But Martin’s succinct remark
(between adjustments of the fag on his
lower lip) climaxed the discussion:
“ ’Course I co-operate. The board does
nothin’, ’n’ I do nothin’. We both do
nothin’. Ain't that co-operation?”
RELATIVITY
The amoeba eats
without stomach or mouth
it can change its shape
from round to flat
it multiplies
by splitting in half —
isn’t it clever to do that!
The embryo bean
butts up through the soil
dicotyledons
like a helmet
crammed over its ears
to protect itself —
isn’t it clever to do that!
The spider spins
several sizes of thread
from one machine;
this web I’m looking at
is made of half-a-dozen
different kinds of yarn—
isn’t it clever to do that l
The hedgehog curls
into a ball
nose between paws
dogs can’t pat
or tear to pieces
just lies doggo—
isn’t it clever to do that f
Man makes all kinds
of things of wood
stone and metal
in ten minutes flat
can whiz from here
to there and back —
isn’t he clever to do that!
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.


MY neighbor, Pedder, has hit on a
novel scheme to shoo-off curra-
wongs and other predatory birds from
his garden-orchard.
He cut out scores of pieces of tin in
the shapes of cats, Siamese, Manx, Alsa-
tian, Persian, Angora, Pekinese and cross-
breds —coated them with luminous paint,
and suspended them from tree to tree and
up and down the branches. The slightest
breeze sets the demons dancing like
Presley fans: and, brother, believe me,
as soon as I recover, I’m enrolling with
AA.
Returning home from choir-practice
about piccaninny dawn the other night
I took a short-cut through his broken
fence and got tangled up in the bevy of
animated cats breathing luminosity ; and
now Pedder suspects I’m either a sneak-
thief or a deviationist from our mutual
branch of Rechabites —or both.
Y. Mee.
• «• * *
“Bellfield”: Amongst the group of
magpies feeding across the fallowing crop-
paddock was what seemed like a white
one. First to see me approaching, it gave
the alarm and took-off. But no magpie
ever screeched like that one. I watched
where the small colony- alighted and
stalked close enough to check. The bird
was a Major Mitchell parrot (“wee-
juggler” to most people); residents told
me it had been living and feeding with
the maggies for months. Never having
seen wee-jugglers around the Gerringong
(N.S.W.) district before, I assume the bird
escaped from captivity, found congenial
company, and decided to be one of the
mob.
* * s *
“Pip”: With rabbit-carcasses, clothed,
bringing 2s. 6d. a head, all the kids in our
district have spent weekends and holidays
trapping. A van does the rounds twice a
week picking-up, and although bunnies
are scarce the young fry haven’t gone
short of pocket-money. Young Bill had
three hooked to a twig of a low tree on
the side of the main road waiting for the
van. Old Bill noticed a car pull up at
the tree. Three men got out and
delightedly reached for the underground
mutton. Old Bill let out a roar and
charged down to the road. They were
New Australians, and they excitedly
argued in broken English that, as the
rabbits were on a public road, they were
public property. Despite Old Bill’s pro-
tests, into the boot went the rabbits. It
was then that he picked up a big stick and
prepared to defend the kid’s pocket-money
to the death. The rabbits were returned
to the tree, and the car drove off, its
occupants yelling abuse until out of
hearing. What are they promised before
they come here —Sunday-dinners growing
on trees?
* * * *
“C.B.”: Mr. Cocky was putting on a
turn because his monthly cream-cheque
hadn’t shown-up in the mail. Inefficiency
m the post-office, that’s what it was. No
consideration for the poor struggling
dairyfarmer (his new £2OOO Customline
was parked outside). The postmaster-
cwm-storekeeper patiently heard him out
and said: “I can understand your con-
cern, Mr. Cocky—l suppose you’re
anxious to pay me something off your
long-overdue account.” The cow-fancier
turned a bright purple, stared for a
moment, then exploded: “What the hell’s
wrong with you—frightened you won’t
get paid?” and stamped out. Another
bad customer lost.
* * $ *
“Tabba”: In Queensland bees
frequently nest between the outer wall and
lining of houses. With corrugated-iron
walls they gain entry up through the
flutings; with weatherboard they can
pass through the gaps where the planks
overlap.
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: Not only in using a squar-
ing-axe is the Chinese woodworker’s
method completely contrary to ours.
Chinese cabinetmakers I used to watch
in my youth pushed a saw, teeth pointing
away from the body, and pulled a plane
towards them. Their benches sloped
floorwards at a fairly steep angle, and
when planing Ah Chee placed the timber
on .the bench, straddled it, and slid down
backwards, dragging the plane with him.
How he succeeded in getting the wood so
smooth was a mystery ; an even greater
one was how he succeeded in getting the
splinters out of the less-visible portions
of his anatomy-—his seat being always
on the portion of timber not yet planed!
A SMALL thermal spring near Mata-
ranka station homestead (N.T.) was
known to Army Sisters who visited it
during World War II as “Lady Gilruth’s
Pool.” The “Lady” part drew mild pro-
tests from local residents, for the former
Administrator’s wife was just plain
“Mrs.” ; but the Sisters stuck to their
error on grounds of euphony. The station
was the scene, in 1912, of Dr. Gilruth’s
unsuccessful attempt to establish a first-
class Merino stud.
The actual source is in a reputedly
bottomless pool, some 25ft. across, sur-
rounded by big trees. Far down in the
warm, clear water the spring can be seen
welling .up, with a movement as of pale-
blue flames. The stream formed by the
overflow broadens and deepens, a few
yards from its beginning, into a water-
hole large enough to permit soaking, if
not swimming, and this was a popular
picnic-spot for the nursing fraternity.
The clean freshness of the spring-fed
stream contrasted pleasantly with the
opaque filth of nearby holes in the
Roper, which smelt unmistakably of
crocodiles. On a still evening, the distant
notes of “Retreat,” most nostalgic of
bugle-calls, mingled pleasantly with the
peaceful, age-old bush sounds. Little
wallabies would feed around in dozens
within a few yards of picnickers and
their campfire, till their sudden departure,
with a wild thudding of feet, heralded the
arrival of an even more fearless dingo.
The war seemed far away and very
futile.
The area has now been developed as
a popular tourist-resort. Its old friends
hope that improvement on Nature has
been kept to a minimum.
Miss M.
“And th ’ same to you — pinhead /”


Business, Robbery, Etc.
A Mixed Economic Bag
VX/ITH the first month of 1958
nearly over, economic
developments continue to open-
up as a mixed bag.
The most stable element in
Australia has been the support
given to industrial shares and
retail stocks, sometimes at odds
with general economic condi-
tions. But while unemployment
is somewhat higher than it was
a year ago, Australia can still
be said to be in a state of full
employment for most practical
purposes.
There are, however, weaken-
ing spots in the economy not
evident in prices for shares
known as “market-leaders.” To
get a clue as to real economic
conditions, the whole share-list
has to be studied. Such a study
will show that the economic
picture is by no means uniform
in tone or texture.
For the half - year to
December 31, the Australian
favorable balance of trade was
down £3O million at £66 million.
It is likely that the position will
get progressively worse in the
second half of 1957-58 because
of the fall in most export
prices.
The wool-cheque for the first
half of the 1957-58 selling-
season was 3.7 p.c. lower (from
8.8 p.c. more wool sold) than
in the same half of the previous
season. A total of 2,208,145
bales (up 177,687 bales) was
disposed of for £lB5 million
(down £7 million). Average
value of greasy wool .was
lower at 68.3 d. a pound.
Prices for metals and most
export commodities are down.
In New Zealand the picture
is continuing to be painted
darkly by the new Government,
which finds it convenient to
blame all the present troubles,
arising from the fall in wool
and dairy-produce prices, on to
its predecessor. In order to
strengthen its overseas funds it
has borrowed £5 million (N.Z.
currency) in London.
In the United States the
Budget provides for an increase
in spending of $3400 million
in a 1958 revenue-expendi-
ture of $72,400 million. There
are to be no reductions in taxa-
tion. Much of the increased
spending will be in respect of
missile-development and con-
struction, and may not flow as
readily into secondary
economic channels as if it were
being spent, say, in the building
trade. And it may not be a
“bull” point in the metal
markets or other normal
commodity-indexes. In 1953
missiles took only two cents
out of every dollar of major
defence spending. In 1958 the
proportion will rise to 24 cents.
The U.S.A. still has an
employment problem, and
Canada has more unemploy-
ment than at any time since
1951. In the United States last
week the Federal Reserve Bank
"Hm-m-m —just as I thought — paste-jewelery !"
cut the stockmarket margin
requirement from 70 p.c. to 50
p.c., thus encouraging credit-
dealing in stocks on Wail
Street. It has been interpreted
as an attempt to stimulate
business as well as to arrest the
decline in share-prices.
Britain is still pondering the
matter of the resignation of the
Chancellor of the Exchequer
and his two Treasury
colleagues so soon after the
raising of the bank-rate to 7
p.c.
Altogether, 1958 has opened
hesitatingly, and the picture will
call for careful watching as it
unfolds further.
Cox Bros, and Gussies
[From Melbourne]
TSAAC WOLFSON, chairman
of Great Universal Stores,
Ltd. (“Gussies”), London, has
left Australia without reaching
agreement on the proposed
financial partnership with Cox
Brothers (Aust.), Ltd.
Wolfson came to Australia
recently for direct talks with
Sir Frank Richardson, Cox
Bros.’ chairman. There had
been previous negotiations
dating back to May, 1956.
Richardson, who rose from
office-boy to chief of his com-
pany, has been much in the
news in the past three years.
This short, silver - haired,
cigar - smoking Melbourne
retailer has figured in a number
of spectacular department-
store takeovers, including
Snows (Sydney) and Foy and
Gibson (Melbourne).
He got fighting-mad when
the Waltons-Sears group tried
to follow-up his own successes
by making a strong bid to take
over Cox Bros. The Waltons-
Sears bid was defeated, but up-
to-date shareholders in Cox
Bros, have been the losers as a
result.
Now Richardson is prepared
to talk business with Gussies,
but on a partnership and not
a takeover basis. He does not
want Cox Bros, to lose its
Australian identity.
In a joint statement with
Wolfson he said that, because
of the magnitude of the trans-
action, both companies needed
time for further consideration.
Wolfson wanted to consult his
own London board, and to
watch developments in Aus-
tralia over the next few months.
Basis of the discussion was
that Gussies would take an
equal financial partnership with
Cox Bros, in Cox Bros.’ Aus-
tralian retail-chain.
The joint statement said that
talks between the two men
would continue. Wolfson had
invited Richardson to visit
London later this year to
examine the ramifications of
Great Universal Stores and to
meet the London board.
Wolfson said that retailing in
Australia was ahead of Britain,
and could hold its own with
America. The volume of
business and the merchandising
ability of Australian stores had
impressed him. Their sales
figures exceeded those of some
of Britain’s greatest stores.
He saw danger in the over*
liberal retail credit of some
Australian stores.
Wolfson said he was “pro-
foundly impressed” at the size
and efficiency of the Cox Bros.’
group, which he considered to
have immense scope for future
development.
Richardson was able to fore-
cast an early return to the div.-
list by Cox Bros., which cut
its ord. rate from 10 p.c. to
1\ p.c. in 1956, and missed-
out in 1957.
Victorian State Bank
'T'HE State Savings Bank of
A Victoria wants full trading-
bank powers. The bank
believes this is the only way it
can compete with private trad-
ing-banks, which now offer
savings-bank facilities.
Like the Commonwealth
Savings Bank, the State Sav-
ings Bank was hit in the pocket
when the private savings-banks
started. The State Savings
Bank, which controls £3OO
million, has been on its toes
ever since. It has introduced
such gimmicks as paying light
and gas accounts for depositors
(with depositors’ money, of
course).
The Bolte Government has
helped the bank to streamline
its services, and only recently
Parliament approved the
establishment of cheque-
accounts.
But whether the Government
will go all the way and give
the bank full trading-bank
rights remains to be seen.
Premier Bolte is silent on the
question.
Canned Beer
r T'UE sudden appearance of
canned beer on the Vic-
torian market has set a problem
for the lawyers—-can licensed-
grocers sell it?
While Carlton and United
Breweries, Ltd., is spending a
small fortune in full-page
advertisements, grocers are
giving their cash to learned
counsel.
The Licensing Act, not
geared to his modern age (who
would ever have thought of
putting beer in cans?), says that
a licensed grocer may sell any
liquor in bottles between 9 a.m.
and 6 p.m. The State Govern-
ment may have to step in and


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
e arly Subscription .. 22/6
Fuitii In the
Future
k
As history proves, the world has ever been
confronted with problems, challenges, doubts.
Their nature and intensity may have varied, but
they have always been there.
Today is no exception. We live in a turbulent
age, because life itself is change, and change
engenders its own commotions. But I see nothing
in the world of our time that need cause us to
falter for an instant in Faith and Courage.
As Australians, we have to be alert to events
in the world at large; but we should never let
them turn us from the task of developing this
country as speedily and efficiently as we can. That
is the duty to which Providence has assigned us;
that is the obligation we must fulfil.
Many great achievements have been lost to
humanity not because men lacked the talents, but
because they had not the wisdom or the will to
use them. Their talents went down with them;
they lived and died in a twilight that was neither
success nor failure, but something in between.
Australia cannot afford to live in that twilight.
Believing in the spiritual destiny of the human race,
we cannot be content with merely “coasting along”
in this country, expecting its natural gifts to sustain
us, and saying: “This is ours to sit back and enjoy.”
The standards of the world are being raised
so rapidly, and so much remains to be done in
taking Australia on to a rich maturity, that only
an inspired effort will satisfy now for the fulfilment
of our task.
• It calls for more than the application of skills
and knowledge; it means that we have to put a
new value on ourselves, on our responsibilities, and
on that Belief which can best be described as a
spiritual investment in ourselves.
But Faith alone will not suffice. It must be
backed by honest work; and for that, like Faith,
there is no substitute.
7
amend the Act to overcome this
technicality.
Meanwhile, those who like
their beer in cans (a can holds
two glasses and costs 25.) can
get satisfaction at the “local.”
Carpet Manufacturers, Ltd.
Although it has been
passing through a period
of restricted manufacturing
and sales activity there has
been price-cutting by overseas
carpet-manufacturers in spite of
import-restrictions, and the
slackness in homebuilding has
affected the overall demand for
carpets —Carpet Manufacturers,
Ltd., has its eyes glued
on what it believes to be the
ultimate future of the carpet
industry in Australia, and is
going ahead in establishing
overseas connections which
should help greatly in the pro-
duction and financial aspects of
the enterprise.
In 1954 a link was established
with Bigelow-Sanford Carpet
Co., Inc., U.S.A. ; a battery of
broad looms and small looms
for making conventional
carpets was acquired, and the
U.S. company accepted as pay-
ment the issue of £1 shares at
a 15s. premium over a period.
So far 47,803 shares have been
issued in part - payment,
dollar advances cover some
other U.S. acquisitions, and
further shares have still to be
issued. A wholly-owned sub-
sidiary, Loktuft Carpet Co.,
Ltd., is undertaking the manu-
facture of tufted carpets with
the assistance of the Bigelow-
Sanford concern.
Now an agreement has been
entered into with John Crossley-
Carpet Trades (Holdings), Ltd.,
of Halifax, England, and James
Templeton and Co., Ltd., of
Glasgow, and their joint-
nominee company, Templecross
Holdings, Ltd., of Halifax, for
the provision of £350,000 of
finance in the form of un-
secured notes carrying 3| p.c.
Of this sum, £150,000 will be
provided immediately follow-
ing approval of Carpet Manu-
facturers’ shareholders,
£lOO,OOO on Jan. 1, 1959, and
£lOO,OOO on Jan. 1, 1960.
The U.K. cos. will convert
the notes into 350,000 £1 stock-
units at par in Carpet Manu-
facturers in July, 1960.
The noteholders will be
entitled to elect one-third of
the directors of the co. in the
meantime.
The board of Carpet Manu-
facturers has spoken of the
link-up “with this most power-
ful English and Scottish group
of carpet-manufacturers” as
giving not only financial assist-
ance, but valuable management
co-operation, and help on tech-
nical matters and staff require-
ments.
“This new arrangement,” the
board says, “together with the
present connection with Bige-
low-Sanford, places your com-
pany in a most unique position
in carpet-manufacturing.”
The additional finance that
is forthcoming will be used for
the completion of the Loktuft
tufted-carpet section, and will
provide working-capital for that
division and the extra output
that will come from the
additional conventional looms
installed and about to be
installed.
Both the U.K. companies
with which Carpet Manufac-
turers is now joining forces have
tufted-carpet interests as well
as controlling a large part of
the conventional carpet trade in
the United Kingdom. Both are
big enterprises with strong
finances. They have probably
been influenced in joining with
the Australian co. by reason of
the import - restrictions on
carpets coming into the
Commonwealth, which is the
largest overseas market for
U.K. carpets.
In making these latest
arrangements Carpet Manu-
facturers is doing something
like the old Linoleum Manufac-
turing Co. did in inducing
Michael Nairn and Co., of
Kirkaldy, Scotland, to join
forces in manufacturing lino, in
Australia. (Tresco G. Rowe is
on the board of Linoleum Hold-
ings, Ltd., and is chairman and
managing-director of Carpet
Manufacturers.) But whilst
Michael Nairn’s now dominate
the Australian lino, company
(with a four-fifths sharehold-
ing), Australian shareholders
will still retain the largest say
in Carpet Manufacturers under
the proposed arrangements.
Carpet Manufacturers, Ltd.,
made a profit of £31,585 from
trading last year, but no div.
was paid (after an average of
9.2 p.c. in the preceding
decade). Paid capital at June
30 last was £625,173, all in
ords. The Australian share-
market has been inclined to
take the view that it will be
some time before recent
developments are translated
into dividends to shareholders,
and last quote for the £1 ord.
stock was 17s.


EXPORT INSURANCE
'T'HOSE Australian exporters
who are having trouble at
present in collecting money
from firms in Indonesia to
whom they have sold goods
will be interested in the under-
writing activities of the Export
Payments Insurance Corpora-*
tion (EPIC), a Commonwealth
Government institution formed
recently.
(It is now too late, of course,
to obtain E.P.I.C. cover in
respect of Indonesia. But there
are other countries and other
traders.)
The Export Payments
Insurance Corporation was
established by a Federal Act of
Parliament in 1956 for the
purpose of encouraging trade
with overseas countries by pro-
tecting exporters against the
risks of loss arising from non-
pavment of their overseas
accounts.
In today’s conditions of inter-
national trade, freedom from
the threat of exchange-restric-
tions and import-controls is the
exception rather than the rule.
The risks exporters must take
in order to remain competitive
in world markets are increasing.
Many of these risks, as well as
the commercial risks of insol-
vency and protracted default
by their buyers, can now be
insured with E.P.I.C.
Liabilities of the corporation
are guaranteed by the Com-
monwealth Government.
Facilities of E.P.I.C. are
available to all persons carry-
ing on business in Australia.
The main risks of loss against
which the corporation insures
are:
(a) The insolvency of the buyer;
(b) Protracted default on the part
of the buyer— i.e., the buyer’s failure
to pay the exporter within twelve
months after due date for goods
accepted by him ;
(c) Blockage of funds, or
exchange-transfer difficulties or
delays which prevent the Australian
exporter from receiving payments
due to him;
(d) The imposition of overseas
Government regulations (including
the cancellation of valid import-
licences), which, in circumstances
outside the control of the exporter
and the buyer, prevent the import
of the goods into the buyer’s
country.
(e) War between the buyer’s
country and Australia;
(f) War or revolution m the
buyer’s country; and
(g) Generally, any other cause not
being within the control of the
exporter or of the buyer which arises
IT o m events occurring outside
Australia.
Cover against trade disputes
is not included, nor will
E.P.I.C. act as arbitrator about
the quality of goods delivered.
The exporter is required to
exercise normal business pru-
dence and to retain an interest
in his transactions. For this
reason, the extent of the cover
is limited to a maximum of
85 per cent, of the amount of
any loss.
Types of Policy
(1) The comprehensive
guarantee: The standard form
of cover is provided by the
Comprehensive Guarantee
(Shipments) applicable to all
consumer-goods and general
commodities sold on short
credit terms, extending
normally from cash against
documents up to a maximum of
180 days according to the usual
terms of the particular trade.
Guarantees covering this
type of business are normally
issued to cover an exporter’s
total export business or the
whole of his trade with an
agreed group of markets for a
period of twelve months, but
will generally exclude business
transacted under irrevocable
letters-of-credit.
Supplementary forms of
cover are available as exten-
sions to the Comprehensive
Guarantee to meet the needs of
special methods of business.
For example, where the goods
are shipped on consignment for
sale from stocks held abroad,
the guarantee can be extended
to include cover not only on
the sales made from those
stocks but also on the goods
themselves whilst they are held
in stock, against the risks of
war and confiscation, etc.
(2) Capital-goods guarantees:
These are issued on an
individual basis to co’ier specific
contracts for the sale of capital-
equipment such as heavy
machinery, locomotives, rolling-
stock, agricultural machinery,
etc., where the manufacturing
period is long, or the goods are
highly specialised and /or credit-
terms ranging over a number
of months or years are required.
Such contracts are frequently
made with overseas Govern-
ment buyers, and a special
guarantee has been designed to
cover these transactions. This
guarantee includes cover
against the risk of the failure or
refusal of the buyer to comply
with the terms of the contract,
provided that this is not due to
any breach of contract or
warranty on the part of the
supplier.
Where capital-goods are con-
cerned, the exporter is
advised to approach the
corporation as soon as possible
after negotiations start with
the buyer and before a con-
tract is concluded. He can then
conduct his negotiations with
the help of the knowledge of
the terms on which he can
obtain insurance.
(3) “Services” guarantees:
Guarantees are also available
in connection with the non-
payment of earnings under
agreements for the provision of
services overseas. Under these
facilities, which are generally
similar to those applying to the
sale o f goods, various
“invisible” exports such as the
provision of technical services,
constructional works, consul-
tants’ fees and royalty payments
may be covered.
The Scheme at Work
If an exporter is interested in
obtaining export - payments
insurance he will need, as in all
insurance, to complete a pro-
posal. In this he is asked to
show the details of his export
experience in the preceding
year, his bad-debt experience,
and his estimate of the business
he expects to do in the next
twelve months. The corpora-
tion then sends the exporter a
letter of quotation setting-out
the terms and conditions—
including rates of premium—
under which it is prepared to
insure the business.
There is no obligation on the
part of the exporter to accept
this offer, but in this way he
can obtain details of the
premium-rates, etc., applicable
to his business. If he wishes to
avail himself of the insurance
he pays a deposit premium
which is carried forward if the
guarantee is renewed or
returned, or adjusted if it is
allowed to expire.
The method of paying
premiums on export sales is a
simple one. Before the tenth
of each month the exporter
submits a declaration of export
sales made during the previous
month in total according to
country of import. He calcu-
lates the premium at the
rates set out in the schedule to
the guarantee and sends in pay-
ment with the declaration.
Payment of Claims
Losses are ascertained in
accordance with the conditions
set out in the guarantee, and
payments are normally made
on the following basis:
Insolvency: Immediately
after the insolvency occurs.
Failure of the buyer to pay:
12 months after the due date of
payment for goods delivered to
and accepted by the buyer.
Exchange-transfer difficulties:
Six months after the due date
of payment of the de&t, or four
months after payment by the
buyer in local currency.
All other risks: Six months
after the occurrence of the
event which causes the loss.
Discretionary Credit-limit
The corp. usually establishes
a discretionary credit-limit in
each guarantee up to which ths
exporter can extend credit to
any buyer in any country
covered by the guarantee with-
out reference to E.P.1.C.,
provided that he has had
favorable experience with the
account over the past two
years, or can justify the amount
by up-to-date credit informa-
tion.
In the event the exporter
receives or expects to receive
an order which is greater than
this amount, then he applies to
the corporation for approval
of the account for this amount.
Once this approval is given it
will normally continue to apply
automatically, on a revolving
basis, to all future transactions
with the buyer concerned.
The corporation maintains its
own files on foreign buyers so
that it is in position to assist the
exporter in credit management.
It may have information on file
which would indicate an
account should be treated with
caution or that a credit limit
should be agreed to only in a
modified form. The corpora-
tion also receives information
from time to time on particular
buyers indicating a deteriora-
tion in their circumstances, and
all policyholders interested in
the account are notified
accordingly.
Aid in Financing
The corporation does not
itself provide finance for the
exporter, but the possession of
an E.P.I.C. guarantee should
help him to arrange finance—
though it cannot ensure that
finance will be forthcoming—
because, in addition to being
evidence of prudent trading, the
collateral value of his overseas
accounts is enhanced.
Provision can be made for
any policyholder to transfer his
rights under the guarantee to
his bank, and the corp. will
agree to pay directly to any
bank in Australia the proceeds
of claims payable under the
guarantee, either for the policy
as a whole, for a particular
market or for individual trans-
actions.
Export-payments insurance,
by reducing the amount at
risk to the exporter, also allows
more business to be taken
against existing capital with-
out overtrading.


“It's all right , Mum —Were only playing satellites!"


SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“Giselle” and “Graduation
Ball M
When Pavlova rehearsed
“Giselle” in America, says
Algeranoff, her glazed eyes, in
the scene where the peasant-
girl goes mad on discovering
that her lover the Count is
affianced to a princess, fright-
ened even the cast on stage
and such was her preoccupation
with the role that she almost
strangled one of the girls look-
ing on. It was evidently a per-
formance based on pathological
research, or maybe she only
had genius.
Elaine Fifield’s Giselle at the
Sydney Empire , was quite
different; a pathetic Giselle,
and it must have taken some
doing, since she had been danc-
ing with an injured foot, and it
must be pretty difficult to look
pathetic with an injured foot;
one would feel more like taking
a leaf out of Pavlova’s book
and strangling someone.
Anyway, this gave 16-year-
old Jessica Folkerts her chance
in the second act; she was
exquisite, a tall, long-necked
branch with twittering little
feet, in the allegro passages,
but hesitant and indecisive,
maybe nervous, in the slow
movements. The dancer of the
evening was Kenneth Melville
as the Count, always graceful,
always assured ; Ron Paul as
the villainous Hilarion took
his terrible knocking-about at
the hands of the Count and the
Wilis so forcefully that you
felt really sorry for him ; and
Mary Gelder made a beautiful
and disdainful Queen of the
Wilis.
The ballet danced well, but
altogether fell short of majesty.
Perhaps this was because of
the music of this oldest of
ballets: your companion says,
“Who wrote the music?” You
say “Adam.” She says, “Yes,
but seriously . . .” Inevitably,
you take that beautiful grave-
yard scene in the woods, with
its cross and wreaths of flowers,
and the lovely dancers perform-
ing in it in yards of white voile,
and you imagine how
Tschaikowsky would have
written it.
Ron Paul, as the head-
mistress of the girls’ school,
came into his own as a comic
dancer in “Graduation Ball,”
Lichine’s fantasia on Strauss’s
music, admirably aided by
John Auld, as the General in
command of the boys’
academy. In fact, the whole
cast seemed to come really alive
in the humor of this piece,
tust boys and girls together;
Kiril Vassilkovsky’s Drummer
solo stood out in the divertisse-
ment, but the general effect was
"No, it's NOT a big TV-set !”
epitomised in the last little
scene, where the cadet stolen
back after the ball for a further
talk with one of the girls is
discovered and kicked out by
the headmistress —grace, gaiety
and farce, timed and mimed to
perfection.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Sleep of Prisoners”
Although done before, this
play by Christopher Fry comes
as an oddity to Melbourne
audiences following their
recent submersion under the
down-to-earth American, Aus-
tralian and English dramatic
efforts.
No doubt Mr. Fry saw some
glaring evils in society and used
his play to throw a revealing
light upon them. At any rate,
throughout “Sleep of
Prisoners,” and its Union
Theatre production by Wal
Cherry, we feel we are in the
presence of some message
without quite knowing what it
is. We wait patiently to the
end (where incidentally the
curtain doesn’t come down) and
are in much the same state of
mind as we were when we
started.
During the in-between, how-
ever, oblique and unintelligible
as much of it seems, Fry shows
that he can use words magnifi-
cently, almost in the great tradi-
tion. It is his wonderful
language, a poet’s language,
that brings distinction to the
play. While not as realistic as
Messrs. Miller, Williams and
co., Fry indicates character just
as sharply.
He attempts to explore the
unconscious minds of four
soldier-prisoners who are asleep
in their converted-church jail.
Perhaps his main aim is to
throw light on why men wage
war, not only in the military
sense, but in the unseen war-
fare in the individual—his war
against himself, against society
and his deep-grounded con-
ceptions of what is good and
what is bad.
There are four characters
and four types. Edward
Webster plays the physical and
assertive—the “Son of Cain,” as
Fry calls him ; Hugh McDer-
mott, the peaceful, spiritual and
poetic—he represents a Christ-
like attitude to war but, like
Christ, is persecuted ; twice in
their unconscious world of
dreams two of the other
prisoners murder him.
Tony Brown plays the
sergeant in command, techni-
cally, of his men, but in his
dream he is revealed as incap-
able of giving real leadership—
“unequipped to save,” says
Fry. The other character,
played by Wyn Roberts, is the
typical, hearty, cockney-type
who finds war as something
inevitable which must be put up
with and goes with the tide ;
he has his philosophic moments
when he shows himself to have
a more realistic grasp of the
world than his fellow-prisoners.
Perhaps the clearest point
Fry makes is that in varying
degrees we are prisoners to our-
selves. We have both the
power to manacle ourselves
with ball-and-chain, or to
discover the key which can
release us. But, as Fry sug-
gests, there are so many things
that stand in the way of ever
finding that key that, like his
prisoners, we are doomed to
solitary self-confinement gazing
at the world through the bars of
our irrational associations.
Wal Cherry’s production
showed imagination ; the light-
ing, the atmospheric sets and
the restless attitudes of his
actors helped to build up quite
remarkable tension, without
which the play might become
notably dull. All characters
were handled with restraint and
sympathy by the Union players.
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Bunyip and the
Satellite”
The standard of Melbourne’s
entertainment, which generally
suffers a total eclipse at the
Yuletide season, was
unexpectedly raised to
distinguished heights by
Geoffrey Underhill’s and Peter
O’Shaughnessy’s bush musical
in two acts, “The Bunyip and
the Satellite,” at the National
Theatre.
In its own juvenile field “The
Bunyip” stands to all others of
its genus as “The Doll” does to
the bulk of Australian drama.
It is well formed, well and
sometimes wittily written, and
the unpretentious story of the
lonely bunyip who only wanted
a friend to love him ; Sam, the
misanthropic hatter, who
understands the language of the
birds and animals, and that
hereditary enemy of the bush,
the fire - demon, whose
machinations are defeated by
a straying small boy, captured
the attention of the children
assembled from start to finsh.
The feral characters, who
included a melancholy goanna,
a wombat, a kangaroo, and an
ambitious brolga, stirred the
imaginations of the kids, and


Have you got
&**-
r
BELtS
*OC\ SCOTCH
•tITIUID ANN *M,"°
•IN ICOTIANO yr,
D ISTILLERS*»SCOT l 2
KSTAILffMtO
*** COMTINTt - I *»** T
good taste?
We mean ‘good taste’ in the
strict sense. When you
drink whisky, do you taste
it critically? It’s always
agreeable to be offered
Scotch Whisky. But it’s
memorable to be offered
Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky
It brings to mind the burb-
ling of Scottish burns, and
the ripple of ripe barley
fields. If you can sense the
subtle artistry of Bell’s Old
Scotch Whisky—truly you
are a connoisseur.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND
BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
BELL’S
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
Arthur Bell & Sons Ltd., DUtillert,
Perth, Scotland. Eetablished 1826.
“Failure of the electronic fuel-ignition sytem is merely a
challenge to our ingenuity, Professor. Have you a match ?”
there was sufficient humanity in
the character of Sam, the
Hatter, to give Peter
O’Shaughnessy the opportunity
for ,an effective bit of acting,
while Barry Humphries elicited
much sympathy for the
unhappy Bunyip.
Ruth Bergner, who, as the
Fire-spirit, pinches a spark
from the Hatter’s fire and starts
to set the bush ablaze, gave a
vivid exposition of the fire-
dance. The music by Val
Fawcett was very pleasant.
Altogether a show that merits
repetition.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“A Hatful of Rain”
For sheer banality it would
be difficult to equal “A Hatful
of Rain,” which was given its
Australian premiere by the
Union Repertory Company at
the Union Theatre, University
of Melbourne. There is a
certain brutal directness about
it that makes you know with-
out feeling, but, given author
Michael Gazzo’s facility with
words, an intelligent policeman
could give as living a descrip-
tion of similar cases which pass
in their thousands through the
world’s courts daily.
Johnny Pope is an ex-G.I.
who has compensated for his
lack as a human being by taking
to drugs and has got into the
grip of a dope-king who with-
holds the dope until his victim
coughs up a debt of $BOO. Mrs.
Pope, who is about to have a
baby, believes from her hus-
band’s nightly excursions into
the outside world that he is
having a grand time with a
mistress, and she runs to
screaming jealousy and self-
pity.
Johnny’s younger brother
thinks that what she lacks is
the love of a strong man and
proceeds to supply the defici-
ency. Their father complicates
the situation further —he wants
$BOO to build himself a house
and things they are hiding
the raoney from him. When
Mrs. Pope learns that her rival
in her husband’s interest is not
a beautiful young lady but a
tube of white powder she loses
all interest in him and calls
up the police and asks them
to remove him to an institu-
tion.
This is realism with a ven-
geance. Allan Hopgood was
passionately realistic as the
younger brother, Hugh Mc-
Dermott pulled no punches
as the drug-addict, Patricia
Conolly was a monument
of self - pity as his per-
plexed wife, and Wyn Roberts
supplied unwitting comedy as
the father. Aptly enough, Kay
Eklund played the dope-king as
a projection of the addict’s un-
conscious rather than a recog-
nisable human being.
ngt
“Blackbeard the Pirate”
This original pantomime,
written and produced by Frank
Allden, and put on by the
Imperial Playhouse at Mosman
Town Hall, has all the freshness
and exuberance one would
expect from a writer in a young
country —after all, we are only
just turned 180. We are still at
the age, however, when we
“pick everything up,” and most
of the traditional pantomime
angles are included and many
of the tricks. The “down-went-
the-ship!” trick with the lop-
sided bench is particularly well
done, by the way.
Betty Parsons is excellent as
Jack Seaweed, the Principal
Boy. She has vitality, looks,-a
fine voice and a good
pair of pins. Robert Hatherley
is a Dame bubbling with effort-
less fun, and the strong band of
principals is supported by a
well-trained and spirited ballet.
The show is perhaps a little too
long—a gallop is exhilarating
but one can only keep it up for
a certain time.
Films
“Magic Fire”
Potted Wagner—but, after
all, Canadian salmon tastes as
good potted as it does fresh and
William Dieterle has done his
potting extraordinarily well. He
seems to have selected all the
significant events in the life of
the composer his marriage
with Mina, his various infatua-
tions, notably Cosima, Liszt’s
daughter, his excursion into
revolution, the financial com-
plications which landed him in
jail, his princely stay with
young King Ludwig, who was
given the choice between
Wagner and abdication, and
that hallowed hour in Venice,
as Nietzsche called it, when he
died.
Running through all these
emotional complications is his
obsession with music, and
Dieterle gives swift brilliant
illustrations of how everything
good or bad that happened to
him found expression in his
music. All his operas are there
in fragments and the film is
shot in the glorious architecture
of Middle Europe.
Alan Radel turns in an admir-
able performance. He feels
the part as well as looks it. The
commonplaceness of Mina is


well brought out by Yvonne de
Carlo.
❖ ♦♦♦ - ♦>
Films of 1957
Possibly the most notable
feature about last year’s films
was the number of powerful,
realistic dramas. Outstanding
among them, and easily the
best-acted, was “Twelve Angry
Men,” in which Henry Fonda
gave a quite memorable per-
formance as a juryman who,
doubting the guilt of a youth
on trial for murder, gradually
breaks down hatreds and pre-
judices in the jury-room and
brings a calm, analytical mind
to the problem.*An admirable
study in varying characters.
Other films of comparable
force were “A Man Is Ten Feet
Tall,” with the negro actor
Sidney Poitier; “Garment
Jungle,” an exposure of cloth-
ing-trade gangsterism in New
York, with Lee Cobb adding
to his reputa t i o n ; and
“Slaughter on 10th Avenue,”
with Richard Egan. “The Great
Man” was also good: a sharp
study in posthumous disillusion-
ment about a well-loved public
figure.
A clever set of character-
cameos emerged from “A
Bachelor Party,” in which a
celebration staged by four men
of a city office for a fellow-
employee who is about to
marry ends in a vastly different
way from its beginning.
The business-world yielded
other good films. “Patterns,”
with Ed. Begley and Van
Heflin, and “The Power and the
Prize,” with Robert Taylor,
Burl Ives and Sir Cedric Hard-
wicke, were solid dramas with
top-executive intrigue and
jealousy the twin themes.
Polished comedies with offices
as the settings included “Desk
Set,” with Spencer Tracy and
Katharine Hepburn in top
form, “Designing Woman,” and
“The Feminine Touch.”
In marathon style were
Tolstoy’s “War and Peace,” a
reasonably good screen-ver-
sion, and Mike Todd’s “Around
the World in 80 Days,” con-
taining magnificent spectacle
and sly digs at Hollywood
fatuity. “Giant,” the late
James Dean’s last film, was
also an endurance affair.
Books and plays were given
a thorough doing-over in
celluloid. There were Shaw’s
“Saint Joan,” notable for fine
performances by many dis-
tinguished English actors ; “The
Barretts of Wimpole Street,”
with Jennifer Jones in a
sensitive portrayal of Eliza-
beth ; “Heaven Knows,* Mr.
Allison,” the novel by the late
Charles Shaw of The Bulletin;
“Anastasia,” with Yul Brynner,
Helen Hayes a»d Ingrid Berg-
mann doing good work ; “Lust
for Life,” the story of the
painter Van Gogh ; and “Reach
for the Sky,” with Kenneth
More as Douglas Bader.
There were also “Moby
Dick,” Herman Melville’s story
about a man’s insanely vengeful
pursuit of a whale; D’Arcy
Niland’s “The Shiralee,”
with Peter Finch, who also
starred in “Battle of the River
Plate” and “Robbery Under
Arms,” the best outdoor Aus-
tralian film to date.
“Tea and Sympathy” was
excellently done, with Deborah
Kerr as the sympathetic
schoolie’s wife; “Teahouse of
the August Moon” and “Don’t
Go Near the Water” were
American Service comedies at
their sparkling best; and “This
Could Be the Night” was
another snappy U.S. comedy.
“Oklahoma” romped home
an easy winner among the
musicals, with the witty “Les
Girls” and “Silk Stockings” the
only others in the field.
Alec Waugh’s “Island in the
Sun” and Tennessee Williams’s
“Baby Doll” gave distorted
passions a run for their money ;
“An Affair to Remember” is
still on its long Sydney run,
with Cary Grant and Deborah
Kerr as a popular romantic
team.
The best of the thrillers were
“Julie,” with Doris Day ; and
“Beyond a Reasonable Doubt,”
with Dana Andrews and
Sydney Blackmer. The only
Western worth looking at was
“Friendly Persuasion” (with
Gary Cooper), which went not
too deeply into the problems of
a Quaker community in the
American Civil War.
The best of the foreign films
were “Light Across the Street,”
“The Fiends” (in the Grand
Guignol manner), and “The
Heroes Are Tired” —all French.
“The Baker of Valorgue,” with
the French comedian Fernan-
del, was also acceptable.
Walt Disney continued his
excellent nature-study series
with “The African Lion.” There
were three first-class under-
water films, all from France:
“Under the Caribbean,” “The
Lost Continent,” and “The
Silent World.”
Notable horror-films included
“Lovin’ You,” with Elvis
Presley.
The Three - grand Man
By Adrian Wintle
T ESLIE SAGE is a musician
—as distinct from mere
“pianist-organist”—who lives at
Seaforth (just above Sydney’s
seaside Manly) with his parents,
a brother, and three grand-
pianos.
In one room stands the
almost - brand - new Bechstein,
which is seldom played ; in the
other room, by the window,
the big Steinway, which we
students used. Opposite, there
is the double-keyboard Bech-
stein-Moor.
I recall saying, “But why
three pianos, Mr. Sage?”
He scratched his head
thoughtfully. “Well, some
people collect stamps, some
books. With me, it’s pianos.”
I liked the Steinway, a big,
broad-toned instrument, fitted
with an organ pedal-keyboard,
which, I was told, utilised the
piano’s bass strings. (I never
heard it working—Sage said
the electric motor kicked-up
quite a racket.) And the piano-
seat! Actually, it was an
organ-stool, about 4ft. long,
solid as reinforced-concrete.
Then there was the two-key-
board Bechstein-Moor. The top
keyboard sounded an octave
higher than the lower one, and
by sticking one’s foot on a
pedal both keyboards were
“coupled”; i.e., you got the
organlike effect of unison and
octave playable from the one
keyboard. There was a draw-
back': with the keyboards
coupled, the action (contact
between keys and strings)
became almost twice as heavy.
It seemed to me one needed
prizefighter-fingers to play it.
I always liked to watch Sage
tackle Bach organ-works on the
Bechstein-Moor, reading three
clefs simultaneously, his long
supple' fingers darting dexter-
ously from one keyboard to the
other. He excels in decisive
forthright playing.
He would sit down at one of
his three grands and improvise
a four-voice fugue on an
original subject—a feat which
amazed me. Once I asked him
how he managed it. “Oh,
various themes suggest them-
selves . .
Later, when I’d absorbed
sufficient technique, he intro-
duced me to a difficult but satis-
fying musical game. I’d sit at
the Steinway, he at the Bech-
stein-Moor. He would play a
four-bar phrase—improvised,
of course —and stop, where-
upon I’d dash-off four bars,
release the keys, and he’d take
over. Often these “conversa-
tions” jwent 10 or 15 minutes.
All one needed was imagina-
tion and fingers.
Generally there were five or
six of us at his classes in
musical theory. We’d squat
around the floor with manu-
script - books and pencils,
puzzling over resolutions of
dominant sevenths.
A good theory-teacher, he
seldom seemed to notice the
passage of time “Good
heavens! What’s that you
say—ten to twelve? Quick,
I’ll give you another figured-
bass . . .”
Besides teaching piano and
theory he has several singing-
students. He also at one time
conducted the N.S.W. Police
Choir.
As an organist he takes some
beating, particularly in the
realm of improvisation. His
method is to build an ornate
framework around a relatively
simple subject, gradually
increasing tone as the piece
progresses, until there is-almost
a constellation of sound. He is
a marvellous pedaller ; when he
hits top-speed his feet are a blur
of rapid movement.
One Christmas I sat on the
Town Hall organ-stool and
“turned pages” for him during
a performance of Handel's
“Messiah.”
It’s quite an experience. One
threads up among the white-
frocked choir in the organ-
gallery to the console, there to
arrange the score on the music-
desk and wait.
Presently there’s a hush, a
couple of hesitant handclaps,
and the entire gallery rises as
the conductor and organist are
applauded onstage. The
organist briskly vaults up the
stairs the console-railing,
bows a couple of times, swings
his legs over the organ-stool,
draws some stops, glances in
the overhead mirror to see if
the conductor’s ready, and it’s
on. You’ve got to follow that
score crotchet by crotchet, and
turn the page at the last
possible instant.
Most organists are content to
work from one score. Mr. Sage
complicated things by playing
from three separate editions.
Leslie Sage is easily the most
versatile musician with whom I
have studied. But I should like
to put it on record that, if I
ever progress to playing
“Messiah” in the Town Hall,
one score will be quite
sufficient.


The Man on the Land
needs the assurance of an Executor and Trustee who will conserve
his Estate for those whom, under h!s Will, he desires to benefit
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY has for over sixty-five
years successfully managed country estates. The Company’*
extensive organisation and wide experience ensures that the
interests of its clients will receive every safeguard and attention,
b
&
Ensure for your
Estate the benefit of
this experience and
obtain for your
beneficiaries the pro-
tection of capital
and assets exceeding
11,000,000.
Writ • hr € If— •Kphnatory kooklU,
BOARD OF DIRECTORS*
G. B. Kater {Chairman).
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
{Vice-Chairman).
/. R. Faviell. F. B. Fleming. C. H. Locke,
Lieut.-General Sir John Northcoit,
K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., C.B.
Manager: F. R. Garland.
Assistant Manager: M. A. Foulcher ;
Secretary : P. H. Andrews.
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
fMI O'Connell SI., Sydney
Associate Company*
Permanent Trustee Co. (Canberra) Ltd,
PT.IISW.IS
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Bank of New South Wales
QUIETLY, almost diffidently, the
tradition-steeped ’Wales last July
formalised a relationship of 30 years’
standing by taking up a 40 p.c. interest
in that leading hire-purchase financier,
Australian Guarantee Corporation.
Previous similar moves by five other
trading-banks took the edge off this
departure from customary banking
practice and probably hastened the
inevitable.
The trading-banks’ explanation for the
trend towards integration is that the hire-
purchase houses have gradually usurped
many functions of the deposit-banking
system, soliciting and lending funds on
terms disadvantageous to the banks,
which, constitutionally restricted in their
interest-rates and lending patterns, have
been more and more confined to the
comparatively unremunerative field of
short-term lending; that counter-infla-
tionary measures have been largely
nullified ; and that borrowers have been
overtaxed by a roundabout and costly
financial structure, while both borrower
and depositor have been deprived of
the banks’ experience in evaluating trade-
risks.
From the standpoint of investors, the
deal is extremely favorable to the bank.
Consideration for the 2,490,000 20s.
ordinary stock-units, each carrying a
12s. 6d. premium, took the form of a
reduction in the corporation’s overdraft
and limits ; and so, given an unchanged
15 p.c. dividend from the A.G.C., instead
of overdraft rates on the £4 million
involved, the bank will collect annually
a tax-free £373,500 dividend.
At present the ’Wales is uniquely
positioned in having both a hire-purchase
tie-up and a wholly-owned savings-bank
subsidiary. Support for the savings-bank,
established early in 1956, has been
especially gratifying, deposits reaching
£72 million and accounts numbering
368,000 at last balance-date.
Savings-bank operations are limited by
the terms of the bank’s licence, which
requires a minimum of 70 p.c. of deposits
to be invested in Government or semi-
Government securities, or deposited with
the central bank. Nevertheless, opera-
tions for the year resulted in a net profit
of £131,567, a return of 13.1 p.c. on
share-capital.
This more than offset the decline in
earnings in the trading section, where
net profit fell by £Bl,OOO to £1,699,000.
Consolidated net profit, after unstated
allowances had been made for tax and
other provisions, was £1,830,000, a gain
of £13,000 on the previous year:
Net To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. f Dividends— N serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1950.. 847,790 8 p.C."= 702,400 145,390 6,791,663
1951.. 954,006 8 „ „ 702,400 251,606 7,043,269
1952.. 997,769 8 „ „ 702,400-295,369 7.338,638
1953.1,117,835 „ „ 746,300 371,535 7,710,173
Share premiums reserve, £1,646,250 9,356,423
From inner reserves, £1,000,000 .. 10,356,423
1954.1,491,417 9 p.c. = 1,078,600 412,817 10,769,240
1955.1,693,895 9 „ ~1,185,300 508,595 11,277,835
Consolidated Figures.
Share-premiums, £1,097,500 .. 12,375,335
1956.1,817,168 9 p.c. = 1,375,387 441,781 12,817,116
1967.1,830,240 9 „ „ 1,580,400 249,840 13,066,956
The unchaiiged 9 p.c. div.-rate on the
now fully-paid issued capital absorbed
£1,580,400, £205,013 more than the
previous year. Earning-rate on average
capital was p.c., compared with 11.8,
12.8, 12.4, 12.7, 11.3 and 18.8 p.c. back to
1951.
A continuing high-level income from
Australian exports, together with
stringent Federal import-licensing and
credit-control, resulted in a favorable
balance-of-payments swing last term,
overseas reserves being run up by £212
million to £567 million. The bank’s
accounts mirror this policy, deposits
increasing by more than £4O million,
while advances fell by over £6 million.
Bills receivable and remittances in transit
were higher, by £l4 million, reflecting the
extra finance provided for wool exports:
Trading Bank Only.
1955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital £13,170,000 £17,560,000 £17,660,000
Reserves .. 11,277,835 12,779,981 12,898,254
Notes .. 80,917 80,917 80,892
Deposits, etc. 456,879,061 444,424,498 484,946,211
Final div. .. 296,325 395,100 395,100
£481,704,138 £475,240,496 £515,880,457
Liquids . . 126,909,604 134,705,912 154,461,148
Special a/cs.* 72,206,977 72,318,717 93,601,633
Advances .. 273,918,153 257,903,713 251,666,621
Premises ~ 7,000,000 9,000,000 10,500,000
Other assets 1,669,404 1,312,154 5,651,055
£481,704,138 £475,240,496 £516,880,457
* Statutory deposits with central banks, Australia
and New Zealand.
A further call of £22 million into the
special account with the Commonwealth
Bank brought total statutory deposits,
Australia and N.Z., to £94 million, equal
to 19.4 p.c. of depositors’ funds. To
soften the loss of earnings entailed by
this transfer—the special deposits carry
a trifling interest-yield—Treasury-bill
holdings were reduced by £l2 million in
favor of Government securities.
Reacting to a tighter credit policy, the
ratio of liquid assets (excluding special
accounts) to deposits was lifted over the
year from 30.3 p.c, to 31.8 p.c., while the
advances-deposits ratio dropped back
from 58 p.c. to 52 p.c. Money frozen in
the special accounts represented 3s. 3d.
for each £1 of depositors’ money.
The ’Wales continues to press on open-
ing new branches, additions during the
term numbering 57. By September 30
there were 1031 branches, of which 134
were in N.Z. and 22 overseas. Latest
innovation of the bank is a “personalised”
cheque service for its Sydney and Mel-
bourne clients, claimed to be the first of
its kind in Australia.
In the current term the central bank’s
request to the trading-banks to favor
capital investment comes at a time when
the Australian balance-of-payments,
although still favorable, is increasing at
a much slower rate, while N.Z. is
struggling to stabilise its trade deficit.
With near-drought conditions at home
and sagging commodity prices abroad,
deposits may fall, and unless the Com-
monwealth Bank releases a good slice of
the special accounts, the trading-banks’


ability to implement the revised policy
will depend on their sacrificing a measure
of their present liquid holdings. But the
’Wales declared in its annual report that
“no marked extension of credit-facilities
is expected.”
Priced at £34 10s. a year ago, the £2O
shares are currently bringing £36, with
a yield of £5 p.c. from the unchanged
9 p.c. dividend. Each share is backed by
visible net tangible assets of £34 12s.
A. E. Goodwin, Ltd.
BRANCHING-OUT into the manu-
facture of diesel-electric locomotives
only a couple of years ago, A. E. Good-
win has quickly obtained for itself a fair
share of the market for this type of
equipment, and at the end of 1957 held
orders for 55 locomotives, valued at
about £6 million. Production of locos,
is to be stepped-up to a rate of one a
week early this year.
Striking trouble soon after reconversion
to a public co. in 1946, partly as a result
of over-rapid expansion, A. E. Goodwin
has made considerable progress over the
last seven or eight years. Noting a strong
demand for several of the co.’s many
manufactured products, the sharemarket,
which treated the scrip cautiously for a
time, now prices the f.-p. £1 ords. at
275. 9d. to return £7 4s. 2d. p.c. from a
10 p.c. distribution. Consolidated
accounts at June 30 last showed a net
tangible backing for the scrip of 295. 2d.
• Carrying on an engineering business
established in 1926, the co. turns out an
extensive range of products, including
coal-preparation equipment (washers,
crushers, dryers, etc.), road-making
machinery, gasholders, floating-roof and
other types of bulk-storage tanks, cranes,
chemical-processing plant, steel ships and
barges and powerhouse equipment as well
as locos, and railway rolling-stock. A
sheet-metal division produces domestic
heaters, freezer-units, ■ hot-water services,
etc.
An exchange of scrip completed last
term gave the co. control of the Sydney-
based engineer and steel-founder, Had-
fields Steel Works, Ltd.
Goodwin’s main engineering-works are
on a 10-acre leasehold at St. Marys
(about 30 miles from Sydney) and the
co. is currently developing a freehold site
in the Sydney suburb of Auburn, where
production commenced last term. A
small shipyard and machine-shop is
located at Pt. Kembla.
The last issue to shareholders was in
1955, when 301,950 £1 ords. were offered
at par, on a one-for-two basis. The issue
of scrip in connection with the Hadffelds
transaction took paid capital to
£1,208,034, of which £50,000 is in 5 p.c. ,
prefs. . .
To provide the working capital needed
to carry out contracts in hand, the co.,
last November, borrowed £600,000 on
1\ p.c. notes maturing in 1965. Each
£lOO of notes gives the holder the option
to take-up 25 ords. at par in 1962 or to
participate in any cash- or bonus-issue
made before that date. The options are
transferable.
The first consolidated accounts pub-
lished by the co. cover the year ended
June 30, 1957, during which subsidiary
earnings and sales of locos., floating-roof
and other types of tankage, coal-prepara-
tion plant and (unexpectedly) road-graders
all contributed to a big lift in net profit.
The parent’s earnings rose by £31,896 to
£150,644, the group as a whole turning-in
a net profit of £166,233 after providing
£99,300 for taxation and £49,759 for
depreciation:
, Dividends >, To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. , Ord. \ serves, serves.t
' 5 p.c.
£> £/ pc» £ £ £
Intangibles written-off, £17,153 .. 49,234
Unexplained addition, £17,145 .. 66,379
1951.. 69,977 11,250* 8 = 10,980 47.747 114,126
1952.. 88,591 2,500 8 = 37,332 48,759 162,885
1953.. 95,277 2,500 8 = 45,018 47,759 210,644
1954.. 2,500 10= 56,272 51,996 262,640
1955.. 064 2,500 10= 56,272 85,292 347,932
1956.. 118.748 2,500 10 = 76,855 39,393 387,325
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Excess, pre-acquisition profits and par
value of shares in subsids. over
cost, £125,291 512,616
1957.. 233 2,500 10=116,085 47,648 560,204
* Includes 3£ years’ pref. div. arrears to 30/6/’5O.
f Subject to intangibles, £29,851, brought in
30/6/’56.
The ord. div.-rate was steady at 10 p.c.,
earnings covering the pref. div. and 14.1
p.c. on ord. capital, as against 15.1, 25.1,
19.2 and 16.5 p.c. back to 1953.
Owing to the nature of several of the
contracts held by the co., large amounts
of money are tied-up in stock for con-
siderable periods, making the task of
financing an expanding turnover more
difficult. To counter this problem,
alleviated, somewhat, by the recent note-
issue, the parent co. leant heavily on the
bank last term, most of the big increase
in stocks shown in the consolidated
balance-sheet relating to the parent's
activities:
t Parent Only—— %
Paid capital— 1955. 1956. 1957.
Pref £50,000 £50,000 £50,000
Ord. .. . .. 601,100 946,371 1,158,034
Reserves .. .. 347,932 387,325 560,264
Overdraft, etc. .. 368,488 275,718 1,019,620
Creditors, etc. . . 249,082 397,095 579,165
Tax provision .. 132,713 150,726 96,188
Final divs. ... 29.386 45,991 59,368
£1,778,701 £2,253,226 £3,522,639
Freeholds .. .. 59,590 229,140 369,535
Leaseholds .. 25,322 25,177 15,993
Plant, etc. .. 295,965 328,652 633,851
Shares .. .. 75,594
Stock .. .. 874,861 904,067 1,743,193
Debtors .. '.. ‘495,815 658,964 728,595
Cash, etc 27,148 1,781 1,621
Intangibles .. . 29,851 29,851
£1,778,701 £2,253,226 £3,522,639
Inclusion of the subsidiary co.’s assets,
rather than expenditure on the Auburn
project, was the main factor behind the
much higher figures shown against free-
holds and plant.
Revaluation of certain premises, carried
out in the current term, resulted in a
surplus of £183,934 being credited to the
revaluation reserve. (This adjustment was
made in the accounts prior to the note-
issue.)
The board expects that the record
volume of orders in hand at the end of
the term will enable the co. “to sustain
production for some time.”
Petroleum & Chemical Corp. ( Aust.)
TjOPES that Petroleum and Chemical
Corporation (Australia), Ltd., would
earn reasonable profits from the supply
of oil-gas to Australian Gas Light Co. —
enabling the development of new
products and wider markets —appear to
have been frustrated by the application
of a price-fixing formula under which
the price received for oil-gas is below the
figure sought by the P.A.C.C.A.L. board.
Over two-thirds of the co.’s income last
term came from the sale of gas to A.G.L.
Caught with most of its eggs in one
basket, P.A.C.C.A.L., under an
“interim arrangement,” is currently
receiving enough for its gas “to enable
the co. to carry on,” but a greater
diversification of products (and, possibly,
of customers, too) would appear
essential if shareholders are to see a
return from their investment. . Plans for
bringing about this diversification are
being considered by the co.
Floated late in 1953, P.A.C.C.A.L.
issued 1,300,000 £1 ords. at par, of which
200,000 were taken up by Bitumen and
Oil Refineries (Australia), Ltd., and
300,000 reserved for shareholders in
that co. With another £25,000 in
promoter’s shares and £3600 from the
original subscribers, the co. got under
way with an issued capital of £1,328,600.
In addition, arrangements were made for
a £500,000 debenture-loan from the city
Mutual Life Assurance Society.
Modifications and additions to plant,
with increases in the price of steel, etc.,
pushed plant-costs above prospectus
estimates, and, to cover the increased
capital-outlay, shareholders were offered
664,300 ords. (one-for-two), at a 25 pc.
premium, in August, 1955.
Located at Silverwater (Sydney), the
high-temperature cracking-plant (first
of its kind in Australia) went into com-
mercial production in January, 1956.
Almost immediately defects in the plant
became apparent, and further modifica-
tions to the original design were
necessary.
Apart from oil-gas, P.A.C.C.A.L.
produces light oil, containing benzene,
toluene and xylene, and petroleum-tars,
some of which contain appreciable
quantities of resin. At present, Bitumen
and Oil Refineries takes most of the oil
output. Further treatrhent of these
products could enhance their value con-
siderably, but this may also involve
expenditure in excess of available
liquid resources. The co. is not
yet engaged in petrochemical pro-
duction on the scale and scope common
in Canada and the U.S.A.
Although finances are
tight, only a relatively small proportion
of share-capital has been lost, and at
June 30 last there was almost 19s. in net
tangible assets for every £ of paid capital.
However, the co.’s main asset, its plant,
is of a highly specialised nature:
1955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £1,328,450 £1,826,206 £1,992,825
Reserves .. .. 166,075 166,075
Debenture .. 420,000 500,000 500,000
Overdraft .. 246,591 209,629 66,040
Creditors, etc. .. 75,534 398,384 285,270
£2,070,575 £3,100,294 £3,010,210
Fixed assets .. 1,915,540 2,540,904 2,504,179
Investments . . 1,002 1,002 1,002
Stocks, stores .. 9,978 184,165 119,179
Book-debts, etc. .. 2,938 94,918 119,525
Cash .. 70 70 45
Intangibles .. 141,047 279,235 266,280
£3,100,294 £3,010,210
Current liabilities were reduced by
£256,703 last term, but at balance-date
exceeded current assets by £112,561.


Every professional
man owes it to him-
self and his family to
enquire about “Table
INCOME
PROTECTION
for
Professional
Men
PERSONAL
ACCIDENT
AND SICKNESS
INSURANCE
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD. (Inc. in Qld., 1895)
HUNTER AND BUGH STREETS, SYDNEY
Stocks and stores accounted for
approximately half of the total
given for current assets.
With most of its technical
problems out of the way, the
co. was able to step-up produc-
tion over the last financial year,
and, for the first time, showed
a small surplus. After .provid-
ing £120,000 (up £60,000) for
the gross profit
was £61,380 (against a £41,651
deficit in the preceding term),
administrative expenses and a
£33,419 interest-bill leaving net
profit at £12,955, or 0.6 p.c. of
paid capital:
Jne. Loss. /--Dividends—>, Deficit.*
30, £ p.c. £ £
Prelim, exp., etc., £83,326.. 83.326
‘64.. 15,870 99,196
Share-issue exp., £12,500.. 111,696
*55..29,351 141,047
(Share-issue exp., etc.,.
£17,437 .. .. 158,484
120,751 279,235
Share-premiums, £166,075 113,160
Profit.
‘57.. 12,955 100,205
•Including intangibles, £266,280 at
June 30, ’57.
The net loss on six months of
commercial production in the
1956 term was £75,137, charges
to the establishment account
being included with, losses in
the above table.
The immediate outlook is far
from promising, but, failing a
more favorable agreement with
A.G.L., the successful develop-
ment and marketing of new
products could put the co. on
a more profitable basis in a
comparatively short time.
The f.-p. £1 ords. last sold at
16s.
Lennons Hotel, Ltd.
A LTHOUGH partially
occupied last May, the big
new wing now added to
Lennons Hotel, Brisbane,
wasn’t completed until early in
the current term, and thus
made little contribution to the
earnings of Lennons Hotel,
Ltd., over the year to June 30,
1957.
Completion of • the wing,
which increases the capacity of
the hotel by approximately 70
p.c., marks the end of an
expansion programme under-
taken by the co. not long after
it acquired Lennons Hotel from
the City Mutual Life in 1947.
As well as additions to the
Brisbane property, the largest
hotel in Australia, this
‘programme included substan-
tial investments in three
associated cos. Lennons
Broadbeach Hotel, Ltd.,
Lennons Kirra Hotel, Ltd., and
Lennons Toowoomba Hotel,
Ltd.—formed to erect and
operate two hotels on Queens-
land’s South (“Gold”) Coast
and one at Toowoomba (Q.).
Jhe Broadbeach and Kirra
hotels were opened at the end
of 1956, the Toowoomba hotel
relying on bar-trade only for
the seven months to last April,
when the hotel-building was
completed.
None of these associated cos.
managed to show a profit in the
initial trading period.
[Lennons Hotel now holds
approximately 50 p.c. of the share-
capital in the Broadbeach and Too-
woomba cos. and has the right to
appoint three of the five directors
of. Lennons Kirra Hotel, Ltd.]
Additions to'the original free-
hold (rebuilt in 1941) and erec-
tion of the new wing, together
with investments in, and
advances to, the associated cos.
called for a substantial outlay
by Lennons Hotel, Ltd., and in
1955 the co. doubled its ord.
capital by a one-for-one par
issue. This was followed by a
£300,000 mortgage-loan from
the City Mutual Life and, last
June, by the issue of 500,000 £1
7 p.c. notes, of which half will
be convertible into ords. in
1962.
With £125 still to come from
the final call on the 1955 issue,
the co. ended last term with a
paid capital of £619,875, of
which £150,000 carries a fixed
7 p.c. (increased from 5 p.c. in
the 1956 term).
At June 30 last the heavy
capital-expenditure of the two
preceding years had yet to pro-
duce anything worth while in
the way of revenue ; and after
jumping from £42,905 in 1952
to £80,963 in 1955, net earnings
have remained comparatively
steady. Claimed after provid-
ing an unchanged £52,500 for
taxation and £BOl4 (down £172)
for depreciation, last term’s net
profit edged forward by £455
to £82,070:
1— —Dividends ■, Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1952.. 905 5 10 31,000 62,946
1953.. 5 10 31,000 72,312
1954-60,639 6 121 36,875 96,076
Assets revalued, £235,000... 331,076
1955.. 5 J 5 42,750 369,289
Share-isue expenses, £9035.. 360,254
1956.-81,615 7 15 5'3,094 388,775
Note-issue expenses, £1350.. 387,425
To prov. long-service leave,
£2600 384,825
1957.. 070 7 15 65,829 401,066
* After deducting intangibles, now
£10,486.
Lifting the average rate for the
last 10 years to. 11.3 p.c., the
ord. div. was again calculated
on a 15 p.c. basis, earnings
covering the pref. div. and 19.4
p.c. on average ord. capital,
compared with 25, 30.8, 22.6
and 13.9 p.c. in the four years
back to 1953. Maintenance of
the pref. and ord. div.-rate in
the current term would require
£Bl,OOO, or £lO7O less than last
term’s showing.
Interest (totalling £6849)
charged on moneys used during
the year on construction of the
new wing was not debited
against income but was added
to the book-value of freeholds.
The final call on the contribs.
brought in £172,676, and with
the aid of the bank (the note-
issue was made at the end of
the term) and an £83,313 reduc-
tion in cash-holdings, a net
£359,989 was put into fixed
assets, £162,047 advanced to
associated cos. and £115,727
paid on scrip held in those
cos.:
Paid capital— 1956. 1957.
Preference £150,000 £150,000
Ordinary .. 297,199 469,875
Reserves .. 397,910 411,551
Mortgage .. 300,000 300,000
Notes .. .. 284,400
Overdraft .. 86,048
Creditors . . 40,719 46,620
Prov. long-service 2,600
Tax provision . . 58,906 57,398
Final divs. .. 30,708 39,159
£1,275,442 £1,847,651
Freehold, etc. .. 733,612 1,051,747
Plant, etc. . . 111,141 152,995
Shares associated
cos 101,250 216,977
Stock .. .. 15,805 27,659
Advances Subsids. 204,000 366,047
Debtors .. 15,685 .20,240
Cash and bonds 84,813 1,500
Goodwill .. 9,136 10,486
£1,275,442 £1,847,651
These movements tended to
deplete working-capital and
liquids, but repayment of all
advances was expected to be
complete by last December,
while, at balance-date, there
was still £215,600 to come from
the note-issue.
A “substantial increase” in
net earnings over the first
quarter of the current term
reflected the higher earning-
potential of the enlarged hotel,
.and, “given something approxi-
mate to last year’s trading
conditions,” the board expects
to repeat the 15 p.c. distribu-
tion. The Broadbeach and
Kirra cos. also operated pro-
fitably over the same period,
and, although the Toowoomba
co. appears to have been less
successful, “satisfactory” results
are forecast for the second half
of the term.
At 365. Lennons’ f.-p. £1
ords. would return £8 6s. Bd.
from a 15 p.c. div., the con-
vertible notes fetching around
235. The ords. had a net
tangible asset cover of 375. Id.
at June 30 last.
Aberfoyle Tin, N.L.
"pOLLOWING the expiry of a
contract with the U.K.
Government, wolfram concen-
trates produced last term by
Aberfoyle Tin, N.L., were sold
by public tender at an average
'figure well below the contract-
price received in the first half
of the preceding term. The
resulting drop in revenue,
coupled with a smaller produc-
tion of lower-grade ore, more
than offset a fall in operating-
costs and a small increase in
the average price obtained for
tin concentrates, net profit
shrinking by 40 p.c.
Down slightly (1827 tons)
over the year, ore reserves at
June 30 last were calculated at
283,417 tons, including 254,711
tons of proved ore, sufficient
for four years’ production ■ at
the present rate of throughput.
Estimated grades are not
indicated, but values have


HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NBO - BAR-
HERB acta like
a hand when
placed flat upon
the orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, control
your hernia with comfort and
security. It cannot be displaced by
violent movement and has proved
completely successful by all who
have tried it.
Write today for Free Literature
Karrere Distribution Company
Dept. 3e, 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Legal Notice
GEORGE WARD late of Lilyvale,
Greater Wollongong, New South Wales,
Electrical Engineer, deceased, intestate,
died on the 16th May, 1952 ; it has been
stated that he was the son of
FREDERICK JOHN WARD and
SOPHIA JANE WARD (bom HUTCH-
INSON)—PURSUANT to a decretal
order of the Supreme Court of New
South Wales in its Equitable Jurisdic-
tion dated the 16th December, 1955,
and made in suit No. 1194 of 1955,
intituled “In the matter of the Estate of
GEORGE WARD late of Lilyvale,
Greater Wollongong, in the State of
New South Wales, Electrical Engineer,
Intestate, deceased; BETWEEN THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE Plaintiff, AND
ROYAL ARTHUR WARD, Defendant,”
whereby the following inquiry was
directed, namely: who were the persons
entitled, according to the Statutes for
the distribution of Intestates’ Estates,
to the estate of the said George Ward,
deceased, living at his death and
whether any of them are since dead,
and, if so, who are their respective
legal personal representatives; NOTICE
IS HEREBY GIVEN that all persons
claiming to be entitled under the said
inquiry are to send by post pre-paid to
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE, O’Connell
Street, Sydney, N.S.W., so as to reach
him on or before the 18th April, 1958,
their full Christian and surnames,
addresses and descriptions, and full par-
ticulars of their claims, or in default
thereof they will be excluded from ths
benefit of the said decretal order, unless
the Court or a Judge or the Master in
Equity otherwise orders. Claimants
are to attend personally or by solicitor
before the Master in Equity at the
Supreme Court, Elizabeth Street, Syd-
ney, on Monday, the 19th May, 1958,
at 11 o’clock a.m., being the time
appointed for adjudicating upon the
claims, and must then be prepared to
prove their claims by proper legal
evidence. A claimant not residing in
New South Wales must send with the
particulars of his claim the name and
address of a person in New South Wales
to whom notice to the claimant can be
sent. Claimants are advised to send
their particulars of claim by two mails,
at an interval of three or four days-
Dated the 17th December, 1957. —E. »•
DUNHILL & BARKER, Solicitors for
the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 97 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
declined over recent years as
the workings get further away
from the centre of the ore-
bodies.
Mining tin and wolfram
(tungsten) ore on Ben Lomond,
the highest mountain in Tas-
mania, Aberfoyle Tin has sent
out over £2.5 million in divs.
since formation, in 1926. The
co. was reconstructed in 1931
and issued capital, £62,500 in
250,000 Is. participating prefs.
and 1,000,000 Is. ords., has
remained unaltered since that
year. The scrip was split into
Is. units in 1951.
Earnings reached a peak of
£537,621 in 1952, but have
declined in subsequent years
with the steep fall in tin prices
and, more recently, the lower
price received for wolfram.
Last term the co. put 59,452
tons (down 4000 tons) of ore
through the mill for 905.97
tons (down 94.49 tons) of con-
centrates and 3161 tons (up 2466
tons) of sulphide residues:
f June 30
1 1956. 1957.
Ore milled, tons .. 63,452 59,452
Concentrates —
Tin, tons .. 633.21 581.10
Wolfram, tons .. 236.15 294.65
Flue-dust, tons .. 121.10 30.22
Sulphides, tons .. 694.04 3160.88
Proceeds*, £ .. 827,854 630.867
Net profit, £ .. 266,920 159,229
Divs., p.c. .. 400 200
~ amount, £ .. 250,000 125,000
* Sales, plus concentrates on hand,
at estimated realisation value.
Ne’t revenue from sales fell by
£309,342 to £561,537. Tin-
concentrates fetched an average
of £914 per ton of metal,
against £893 a ton in the 1956
term, wolfram concentrates
being sold at prices ranging
between £1542 and £7Ol per
ton of metal. Compared with
the preceding term, proceeds
from wolfram production were
down by £177,433. The sale of
sulphide residues—which con-
tain, among other things, a
quantity of copper —realised
£24,615.
Although total costs (includ-
ing taxation) per ton milled
were the lowest for seven years,
at £8 os. 6d. a ton (down 17s. sd.
a ton), the surplus from the
working-account was £189,876
smaller at £242,013, net earn-
ings, after providing £52,259
for taxation (down £65,446),
falling by £107,691 to £159,229,
or 2s. 7d. a share. Dividends
were halved at 2s. a share,
taking £125,000, of which
£46,875 was exempt from tax.
The co. has not indicated
how it intends to finance the
recent purchase of the Atlas
Corp.’s controlling interest in
N.A.U.C., except to state that
no share-issue is contemplated.
Costing in the vicinity’ of
£200,000, the N.A.U.C. scrip
will give the co. control over
assets (mainly liquid) valued
at approximately £400,000, but
no announcement has yet been
made on the manner in which
these funds will be employed.
The board’s decision in this
matter could have considerable
bearing on the co.'s future
prospects as a tin-producer.
Aberfoyle is also interested in
the Westralian ilmenite-
producer, Western Titanium,
N.L., and at June 30 last held
scrip with a par value of
£142,000, increasing its invest-
ment over the year by £92,000.
At the same date current
liabilities exceeded current
assets (£163,998), mainly stocks,
by £2708. By the end of the
term holdings of cash (£20,383)
and bonds, etc. (£35,000), had
been replaced by an overdraft
of £58,429.
Spot tin prices on the London
Metal Exchange are only a
shade above the level at which
the International Tin Council
must buy in for its buffer-stock,
and chances of an early im-
provement seem small. How-
ever,, Australian consumption,
already in excess of local pro-
duction, is expected to increase,
the opening of B.H.P.’s tinplate
mill stimulating local demand.
In the 24 weeks to December
24 last, 33,409 tons of ore were
treated for 471.1 tons of con-
centrates, including 310.5 tons
of tin concentrates.
Listed on the Melbourne
’Change, both prefs. and ords.
sold recently at around 65.,
returning at that price 33.3 p.c.
from a 200 p.c. div.
Timor Oil, Ltd.
■pIRST accounts from Timor
Oil, Ltd., disclose that at
June 30 last (before drilling
commenced) £259,895 of the
co.’s £1,000,000 paid capital
had gone into prospecting-
rights, etc. (£142,877), forma-
tion and share-issue expenses
(£68,904), prospecting, etc.
(£35,640), and administrative
expenses (£12,474 net).
Current assets, mainly cash
or deposits, added-up to
£613,874, and fixed assets to
£152,761 at the end of the'term,
and there was £26,530 owing
to creditors. The prospectus
estimate of initial working-
capital was £536,700.
Registered late in 1956,
Timor Oil offered 2,573,000 ss.
ords. to the public in March
of the following year, reserving
another 1,220,000 shares for
applications from Oil
Drilling and Exploration, Ltd.,
Commonwealth Mining Invest-
ments (Australia), Ltd., and
shareholders in Commonwealth
Mining Investments. A sub-
sidiary co., registered in
Portugal, holds an exclusive oil-
prospecting concession cover-
ing the greater part of Portu-
guese Timor.
The co. commenced drilling
at Aliambata, on the south
coast of Portuguese Timor, last
October, the (Aliambata) No.
1 test-well reaching 3833 ft.
early this month.
Speculative bids for Timor’s
ss. ords. reached ridiculous
levels a few months back, but
the scramble for the scrip was
cpmparatively short-lived, sales
being made last week at 4s. 5d.,
compared with a peak of
15s. 4|d. last August.
New England" Antimony
ENGLAND Anti-
mony, N.L., has arranged
to export its production of con-
centrates over the next three
months “at a tariff approxi-
mately equal to that recently
obtained locally.” Concentrates
are normally treated by a local
concern which has advised the
co. that it is unable to make
further purchases “for the time
being.”
The mine, near Guyra
(N.S.W.), reopened on January
6 and an adequate water-supply
—one of the main problems
last year —is now available.
Investors’ Guide
r T''HE erratic and seemingly
illogical behavior of the
sharemarket from time to
time can usually be traced to
a disregard, or even an
ignorance, of the basic rules
which should be applied by the
investor in determining his
attitude to a particular stock.
Combining these rules, or
principles, with a comprehen-
sive description of the
mechanics of investing and
some sound advice on the
analyses of financial statements
and prospectuses, G. E. Harri-
son has produced in The
Principles of Successful Share
Buying and Investing (Rydge’s)
a handy textbook for all who.
as the author puts it, “are not
convinced that their savings
are invested to the best
advantages.”
-To cater for the novice
investor Mr. Harrison has
included a number of chapters
which the experienced operator
will lightly skip, only to be
brought back to earth with the
curt reminder that “the
majority of share-traders are
generally wrong,” and that the
“rpost optimistic [of traders,
or speculators] is almost
invariably wrong.”
The individual investor must
ultimately decide for himself
the particular balance between
yield and security most suited
to his needs —and tempera-
ment. The Principles of Suc-
cessful Share Buying and
Investing could help him to
make that decision a sound
one, encouraging, as it does, a
more critical examination of
the information published by
public companies and a healthy
scepticism of extravagant Claims
unsupported by relevant facts.
Mr. Harrison is the editor of
publications for the Sydney
Stock Exchange.


London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
IpO the regular playgoer, the
L London theatre appears to
e exceptionally virile and
ealthy by comparison with its
esultory state a year ago.
erhaps we are at a turning-
oint, at the beginning of a new
nd vigorous era for the
rama: an exciting thought but
y no means an extravagant
ne.
The year 1957 saw some
isastrous flops, of which the
eaviest were American
importations. “Fanny” lost
40,000 at Drury Lane,
Damn Yankees” £23,000
t the Coliseum, and Tennessee
Villiams’s “Camino Real” over
: 10,000; other five-figure
nusicals to lose were “Oh, My
>apa!” and “Zuleika” ; and
established dramatists whose
>lays failed included Priestley,
Douglas Home, Anouilh and
Agatha Christie.
rhe TV Influence
Two points emerge from
hese facts, depressing as they
nay be to the businessmen
vhose job is to make money out
af popular entertainment. One
that has taken along time to
drive home is simply that the
public no longer rushes to buy
tickets for a show just because
it was a success on Broadway
(“My Fair Lady” is a distin-
guished exception, and, besides,
its origin, setting and principals
are English). The other point
is at once more subtle and more
complex: the effect of the
present-day counter-attractions,
IV especially, is to favor
shows with those indefinable
attributes, character and
personality. Why, for example,
should “The Mousetrap” run
for five years, while other
thrillers, some by the same
authoress, peter-out?
The remaining four long-
runners all had modest origins.
“The Boy Friend” began as an
extended joke at the late-night
Players Theatre ; “Salad Days”
was a home-produced Christ-
mas frolic at the Bristol Old
Vic; “Dry Rot” an unexcep-
tional farce; and “Sailor,
Beware!” was transferred as it
stood from repertory at Worth-
ing. Of these five shows one
only, the farce, had a leading
actor well known to the public.
Similarly, “At the Drop of a
Hat” evolved out of that social
occasion so dear to artistic
folk, the party. An accom-
plished young pianist, Donald
Swann, and a former actor,
now unfortunately a paraplegic,
Michael Flanders, given to
performing their own esoteric
but witty compositions, were
induced to make a night of it
at a suburban theatre. This
led to a transfer to the West
End, packed houses and fame.
An engaging charm pervades
their entertainment, their
characters blend well and
Flanders’ new-found power to
act, and act superbly, though
confined to a wheel-chair, is
most compelling.
It is less easy to account for
the success of “Share My
Lettuce,” an undergraduate
revue, originally from Cam-
bridge, in which the humor is
off-beat, the comedian is out-
of-key and the numbers
deliberately pointless. But there
is something, again unaccount-
able and indefinable, which
tickles and satisfies the longer-
haired audience, especially the
youth.
Highlights of 1957
Thus seems to be the general
trend of theatregoing. What
of the drama? Here there are
positive signs of resurgence
and of the emergence of an
indigenous theatre.
Play competitions are not
new, nor are they necessarily
fruitful. But the “Observer”
had nearly 2000 entries, pro-
ducing everything that the
distinguished panel of judges
sought—“new authors, new
idioms, new subjects, new
approaches” —and of the ?5
finalists (four of them Aus-
tralians) only three bore names
that were known to that
journal’s dramatic critic. The
difference is that, thanks to the
English Stage Society’s Sunday-
night rehearsed play-readings,
some of these plays have
already been heard.
This society, still growing in
influence, brought John
Osborne forward and, helped
considerably by Laurence
Olivier, provided the dramatic
sensation of the year with “The
Entertainer.” Olivier’s por-
trayal, complete with twirling
cane and weary song-and-dance
routines, of the pitiable never-
was, Archie Rice, is as un-
forgettable as it is bitterly
satirical.
In some respects “The
Summer of the Seventeenth
Doll” was a complementary
play because of the theme —
failing power and changing
values —and the tense, astrin-
gent mood. Both these plays
have left their mark upon pro-
ducers by their gusto and by
their reliance on forthright
dramatic methods. The differ-
ence between the two is that,
broadly, Osborne’s is the better
dialogue but Lawler gets the
closer to life ; the Rice family
are greasepaint-deep, but the
cane-cutters and their lay-off
associates are real people.
Once again Shakspeare has
been well-served. The Strat-
lard-on-Avon Company filled
le Stoll Theatre (now being
emolished) for several weeks
/ith “Titus Andronicus.”
'eter Brook’s production
leverly contrived to turn'this
hocker into a tragedy, even
o the toning-down of Olivier’s
Titus. The same producer now
tas a beautifully-spoken “The
Tempest,” with John Gielgud
is Prospero, at Drury Lane,
ehabilitated for a short while
o its former status as the home
)f English drama.
The Old Vic, now nearly
hrough the First Folio, have
lad an excellent season, in high
’ettle from the beginning. A
arge sum is being spent on
backstage extensions which will
permit of a larger repertory
at present, not more than three
productions can be accom-
modated at the same time). The
Christmas show, “A Mid-
summer Night’s Dream,” is
ambitiously spectacular and
will run for six weeks.
\
Late Starters
To fill the gap left by the
withdrawal of “The Doll,” the
Oxford Playhouse produc-
tion of “Dinner with the
Family” has been transferred
to the New Theatre. This is a
recent translation of Anouilh’s
20-year-old “Le Rendezvous de
Senlis.”
The magical first act leaves
you murmuring with delight
and impatient for the bell.
“Watch me,” the author seems
to say, like a master conjuror
who knows his tricks are good,
“and prepare to be amazed. I
will take stock characters, of
whom you tired long ago, dress
them up, spin- them round and
—hey presto!—they’ll have you
on a piece of string.” They do
—the slightly dotty seigneuse,
the man - about - town, the
doddering old waiter, and the
out-of-work actor, all pride and
poverty, with his female
counterpart, tongue-in-cheek
and hard-boiled.
Georges, the man, a
profligate lover, peoples the
seigneuse’s large house for just
one night, solely to impress
a young country girl whom he
seeks to conquer; the remainder
he has hired, one to be the old
family retainer and the other
two to be his “father” and
“mother.” The following
scene, in its violent and un-
savory contrast, is a disappoint-
ment, probably because the
acting of goodish Little
Theatre standard—falls just
short of the required panache.
But there is one delicious
surprise and an adequate, if
conventional, last act with a
happy ending. John Justin’s
Georges is presentable and
heart-fluttering but under-
played. The supporting parts
are juicy enough, and Jill
Bennett, though hardly of the
soil, makes a fragrant and
poetic jeune fille.
Another family affair is Benn
W. Levy’s witty improvisation
of the ninth labor of Hercules
(or, as he prefers,- Heracles)
“The Rape of the Belt” (Picca-
dilly Theatre). His wife, Con-
stance Cummings, is an Antiope
of pedestal beauty and tran-
quil intelligence. John Clements
a giant, booming, yet (at
times) diffident Heracles —also
produces. Mrs. Clements (Kay
Hammond) has a beautifully-
tailored part as Hippolyte,
which she discharges with
chuckling comedy and joyous
relish..
The affair is a post-prandial
leg-pull, very U and rather
Shavian. Don’t you believe
what they say about Amazons,
the right breast and all that.
They're as gentle and feminine
as the ladies. If
they’ve never lost a battle it’s
because they’ve never fought
one. And the men in their lives,
necessary for perpetuation, are
kept in a perfectly hygienic
stud-farm.
Zeus (Nicholas Hannen) and
Fera (Veronica Turleigh),
elevated as marble busts, act
as joint chorus, very much to
the point with barbed cross-
talk which, for all its revelation
of mortal foibles, is closely
related to mythological legend.
Richard Attenborough’s
Theseus is, in build and in
character (aristocratically dim-
witted), an effective zany to
Heracles, who, it turns out,,
isn’t such a fool as he first
seems to be. The fun is largely
vocal, the action being too
slight for dramatic sufficiency.
This results in periods of flat-
ness, and, finally, the author
has to give in to farce, which,
one feels, he has been sedu-
lously trying to avoid.
“The Tunnel of Love” (Her
Majesty’s Theatre) is an
American comedy unbelievably
preposterous in concept but
makes out to be fairly inoffen-
sive and quite amusing.


The Man on
the Handkerchief
By A. B. SHERLOCK
(7)
[Though still capable of putting
up great fights against the world’s
best in America, Griffo is now
slipping, his “saloon” training
getting the better of him. Chicago
has finally had enough of him and
he has gone to San Francisco.J
IN San Francisco the Occi-
dental Club arranged a
meeting with the con-
venient Kid Lavigne.
Chicago was, after all,
notorious for unfounded
rumors, and it was only three
months since Griffo had fought
a 15-round draw with Gans, the
best lightweight in the country.
Californians were willing
enough to come and watch the
miracle-man in action.
He left his miracles on the
train and got down to the mun-
dane business of drinking his
head off. The colorful pros-
pects of ’Frisco began to come
back brightly through the
bottom of his beer-glass. Un-
reasonably, the Occidental Club
was urging him into training-
quarters at Sausalito, across the
Bay, practically on arrival. He
demurred at the unnecessary
haste, but he was staged from
saloon to saloon, each a step
nearer the big side-wheeler
ferry. On the waterfront, with
its swarming bar-rooms, he c»on-
sumed enough parting drinks to
convince him that there was no
reason why a free citizen
should go to Sausalito at all.
The matchmaker for the
Occidental Club, Young
Mitchell, had been the
most middleweight on the
Pacific Coast. He was a
resolute man in a crisis. He
collared the outlaw, and had
him bottled up for the night
in the Harbor police-station.
Bailed out the next morning,
Griffo was tractable enough,
and resigned himself to
Sausalito and a dry programme
of road-work, ball-punching
and other Tiresome exertions.
When the time came to take
him over to ’Frisco to be
photographed, he came under
escort. One of his guards,
“Big Jack” Miles, was always
referred to in Griffo’s hearing
as “the sheriff”; he had a no-
nonsense exterior and an
imposing silver badge. He
scowled at the boxer as if
defying him to detour even
one step from the chalk-line.
Griffo’s seemly bearing, while
the “sheriff” was around, would
have made his Eastern cronies
believe in fairies.
W. W. Naughton talked with
him, and told his readers that
in conversation Griffo could
be “both pert and pithy.”
As a rule, Griffo used a sort
of coarse and ragamuffin
repartee, but sometimes he
made a point with scalding
native wit. As, for instance, his-
brawl with a towering Boston
tough in a saloon.
Griffo slugged the heavy-
weight severely, but the
monster closed with him and
brought him to the floor.
Rolling over and over through
sawdust and spittoons, they
finally shot down a stone ramp
into the cellar, still welded
together. At the foot of the
slope they smashed into a rank
of barrels.
Happening to arrive under-
most, the big fellow lay like a
stunned mastodon. One of his
jackals peered down, and set
up an accusing howl.
“Whatya done to ’im, ya
little stiff? Is ’e ’urt?”
Griffo got up groggily.
“Blimey, why wouldn’t ’e
be?” he barked. “ ’Arf the
time, I was rollin’ on ’im!”
When Naughton came to
print what Griffo had told him,
he did not find it necessary to
render it into vaudeville
Cockney.
“Can I tell the public that
you’ll whip Lavigne?”
“That would read kinder
funny if I didn’t happen to
lick him, wouldn’t it?” Griffo
said. “Tell you what you can
say, though—he can’t lick me,
not in a thousand years. If I
don’t get the best of him, he
won’t get the best of me, that’s
a sure pot.”
“How about your condi-
tion?”
‘Well, now, there’s a whole
lot of people fooling them-
selves over me. I’m not the
hopeless case they make me
out to be. I don’t drink as
much as they say I do, and
I’ve still to meet the man who
can get the best of me in the
ring. I’ll surprise some of them
when I meet Mister Lavigne.”
There was a smattering of
truth in this; his condition,
anyhow, was miles better than
it had been in Chicago. But it
was the firm hand of Young
Mitchell that had put the plug
in.
All wasted, as things turned
out; what happened was an
echo of Roby, where an earlier
meeting of the pair had been
vetoed by the authorities. Once
more Griffo was keyed up to
meet Lavigne, and once more
the match was vetoed. The San
Francisco supervisors "suddenly
halted the flow of boxing
permits, and Lavigne returned
to the East.
AT this moment an anony-
mous “patron of pugilism”
from New York had an inspira-
tion: “Now that they have
Young Griffo at San Fran-
cisco and so near home, sport-
ing men are agreed that it
would be a good thing to ship
him to Australia by the next
steamship.”
In Philadelphia there was no
beating about the bush:
“Young Griffo has decided to
go back to Australia. This
is a most pleasant item of
news We are grateful to
Australia for sending us such
a marvel of a boxer, but we
shall be more thankful if he
goes back to the land of his
birth.”
In San Francisco, Griffo was
stranded and without employ-
ment. A scratch affair with
Frank McConnell, six inches
taller and 121 b. to 151 b. heavier,
was arranged to take place at
VallejQ, where the Mare Island
Navy Yard was situated.
On January 11, 1898, a
special steamer ferried the
fighters and some 200 sports to
Vallejo. As it chanced, the
good citizens of Vallejo were
still smarting from an irrita-
ting boxing frame-up which had
been foisted upon them, and
they showed their enthusiasm
for Griffo’s fight by staying
away in large numbers. When
McConnell saw the empty
house, he refused to go on.
A 12st. substitute, Billy
Lewis, was unearthed. Griffo,
who would tackle anything on
two legs, hammered the big
fellow at will. Lewis’s con-
ception of the rules was
peculiarly his own. Tom
Sharkey, as referee, was called
on to do some strenuous
haulage; Lewis wanted to
wrestle Griffo to the floor and
kneel on him. Griffo took the
decision, and on the returning
steamer, we are told, regaled
the excursionists with coster-
monger songs and regaled him-
self with anything interesting
poured out at the bar.
The Olympic Club obtained
a licence for a meeting between
Griffo and McConnell; they
boxed 15 rounds on February
3, 1898. Griffo wore an air of
boredom and did not exert
himself beyond ducking and
blocking. Naughton reported
that his “dash and devilry” had
deserted him. The decision,
Naughton decided, was given
to McConnell for consistent
trying, whereas “it would puzzle
anyone to know what Griffo
was doing.”
When he had tossed off
several drinks after the show,
the once-peerless featherweight
began throwing out hints that
there was more in his insipid
display than met the eye. A
few more drinks, and he was
confiding that he had been paid
to “hold back.”
This fooled nobody. As to
payment, he had no way of
knowing that his manager
Halloran (or Holland) was on
an east-bound train with the
takings in his pocket. A day
or two later Griffo was arrested
for vagrancy.
He seemed to be unaware of
it himself, but a form of dry-
rot was decaying his pride and
skill. He was almost a horrible
warning, a woodcut from the
pages of a temperance tract.
That year, 1898, saw him fall
apart personally and pugilisti-
cally. He was now 27.


Cocker Tweedie, a Sharp
gloveman from The Rocks
—known, in fact, as Griffo
the Second returned to
Sydney with a depressing
account. Griffo, he said, had
gone off terribly, lost all
punching-power and could do
little more than parry. They
had a seven-round trial out-
side San Francisco “for fun.’*
Tweedie made it no secret that
he had more than held his own,
and that there was a great
falling-away in Griffo. Un-
charitably he added that Griffo
was nothing more than a
“perambulating beer-barrel.”
At times it was lucky for Griffo
that he could not read.
A Newcastle man happened
to run across Griffo at
the Thalia saloon in ’Frisco
and, in a letter home, made it
clear that the champion was not
what he used to be. “He is a
sorry wreck —out at the elbows,
broken boots, unshaven, one
ear bunged up, a black eye,
drunk, and suffering frorp some
throat affection. He is an awful
picture to look at. I mentioned
several of his Sydney acquain-
tances, but he did not seem
to remember one of them. The
waiter said that Griffo had been
in the same state for two
months.”
THE ’Frisco sporting clubs
were not fastidious, but
they shied away from advertis-
ing this unsavory derelict as a
house-filler. In search of funds,
he turned to smaller towns.
He signed up to meet one
Parker at Sacramento towards
the end of April, 1898. The
distance was 20 rounds, in view
of which he straightened him-
self up and went in for exer-
cises.
Appendicitis took Parker out
of the picture, and while the
promoters hunted up a stand-
in, Griffo consoled himself
according to his habits. The
substitute was announced as
“Bull” McCarthy, the Phila-
delphia welterweight, and, ill-
prepared though Griffo was,
the contest was all in his favor
from the beginning. McCarthy
came up for the 20th round,
but in another few seconds
was knocked out. He was taken
to hospital, where he collapsed
and died.
Griffo and the promoters
were held in Sacramento jail
to await trial. Then a rumor
took shape that the victim was
not the genuine “Bull,” but an
unknown named Joseph
Devitt. No fraud, no decep-
tion, claimed the promoters;
the advertisements clearly said
“Young” Bull McCarthy.
Griffo, who had twice met the
real McCarthy at Philadelphia,
Rad either forgotten Him, or
else— which was more likely
*~he had not bothered to find
Out who his opponent was.
Griffo remained in jail for
more than a month. It was not
until June 4 that he was released
on an order from Judge Hart,
whose ruling was that the
death was. entirely due to
accident in a friendly contest,
and that he was satisfied no
jury would convict.
GRIFFO
In condition, in his prime, he
weighed 8st. 9lb., but he was
then master of all the light-
weights.
Freedom was refreshing, but
Griffo tasted little enough of
it. Almost at sight on his
return to ’Frisco he was
awarded 30 days for vagrancy.
The civic authorities were
bent on making the city a haven
of unrest for him. They locked
him up regularly. After a day
or two of freedom he was
always found in a state which
demanded another dose of the
ordinance.
It began to look as if he
would never break loose from
the cycle. Writing in August
of that year George Dawson
quoted Griff o’s current
vagrancy term at six months,
undoubtedly a record for the
course.
“I am kind of sorry for
Griffo,” he wrote, “but I guess
he has only himself to blame.”
Another optimist was sorry
for him too, and had him
released on the strict under-
standing that he would go into
training-camp immediately, and
stay there. A match and a
purse were on offer; Griffo
had his feet on a ladder again,
but he kicked it aside.
He didn’t want training—he
only wanted a talkative and
cosy befuddlement, the friendly
fog which was never further
away than the saloon on the
next corner. No sooner was
he released than he ducked his
Samaritan and got back to the
hot and rebellious stuff the
vintners sell. He was re-
arrested.
This time the ultimatum was
blunt —he could either
leave town or be
locked up for longer
than he would find
sociable. He chose to
leave town.
Naughton’s version
was that “some of those who
wished to be rid of him
put up a small purse for
travelling - expenses.” What-
ever the motive, he was sub-
sidised to clear out and
remove himself as far from
’Frisco as the money would
take him. Probably the first
thing that occurred to him was
to make Chicago his appointed
refuge. He had so many pitfalls
there that nobody in his right
senses would have steered him
in that direction.
But Chicago it was, and most
likely the Californians took it
stoically when, after a few days,
the telegraph-wires reported
that Griffo was in jail.
WHAT happened could
have been predicted
without much insight. Arriving
in Chicago he renewed his head-
long battle with John Barley-
corn. John’s punches wore him
down in the end. On the night
of September 27, 1898, the fire-
water took charge and he ran
amuck.
The start of it, accounts at
the time relate, was a saloon
brawl when some woman
mutinied against buying Griffo
any more drink. He declared
war on everybody in sight.
After an indiscriminate hurly-
burly with the crowd in the
saloon, he charged down State
Street swinging and lunging at
passers-by, and leaving several
angry citizens sprawling in his
wake.
This sort of thing was no
novelty to Chicago police. A
squad chased him into Congress
Street and finally cornered him
in Hubbard Court, where, with
the horse-drawn wagon clatter-
ing in attendance, they closed
in for the kill.
Griffo, according to eye-
witnesses, resisted with the
inspiration of madness, ducking
and side-moving the whizzing
clubs of the police, and at
intervals retaliating with lively
jolts.
He was in time borne down
by sheer numbers and pitch-
forked into the wagon, in the
process parting with large areas
of clothing.
One look at him, and th»
officials laced him in a strait-
jacket for the night. The
sentence was 53 days, a
By October 10 he had cooled
off enough to recognise that
the whole world was not against
him. A plea in the right quarter
brought him up before Judge
Martin and, promising to leave
Chicago within *24 hours, he
Was set free. It is not on record
that he did leave town; but,
if he did not, he at least side-
stepped public scandal for the
rest of the year.
But the next year, 1899, saw
him sucked into the whirlpool.
January had hardly got under
way when he was arrested
after another saloon rumpus.
He had lost his way in a boozy
labyrinth. As if mortally afraid
of sobering-up, he remained
saloon-bound. His body was
used to punishment; it was
his mind which showed signs
of cracking-up.
On the evening of March
17 police-officer James Tuohey
was called to a downtown
saloon, where he found the
wreck of a great fighting-
machine clambering over the
tops of chairs, sparring with
imaginary opponents, and
screeching like a cockatoo. He
took him to Harrison Street
police-station, where Griffo
battered the iron grille with his
skull, and mashed his knuckles
against the cell walls.
In the morning he was
removed to the detention
hospital. Here he continued to
fight spectral lightweights and
yell insanely. Occasionally he
would bellow out the names
of racehorses, urging them
on, and then growl wolfishly as
he ripped up strips of paper
representing pool-tickets.
After five days a court of
inquiry was held on the ques-
tion of committing him to an
asylum. The Chicago “Daily
News’’ of March 23, 1899,
opened its report with a fine
old-fashioned resonance:
Gross in bulk and leering: in
expression, a dark beard niantlingr
the haggard faee that once glowed
with the clear flush of his superb
animality, the man who has never
met an equal in the boxing: game
was dragged into the Insane Court
at the detention hospital today,
given a brief but most convincing
bearing, and consigned to the
wards and bars.
Griffo wore broken-down
(i Continued on page 39)


THE SEEING EYE
Short Story by PAL CLEARY
‘‘"l-’VE been watching you,”
I the girl said. “You
JL haven’t danced once all
night.”
The soldier cracked his
knuckles and said nothing.
“What do you think we came
all the way out from Sydney
for, to be stood up? Your
lieutenant told us you blokes
were crazy to dance.”
The soldier said, “That stand-
over merchant’s got no right
to speak for us.”
The girl’s voice was husky.
She said, “This is my first time
here. What was it before it
was a hospital—a grazier’s
home?”
“A school. A school for
snotty little rich girls.”
“I’ve never seen such a
place.”
The soldier said, “Neither
have I.”
The girl hesitated. “I didn’t
mean to have it come out that
way.”
The soldier said, “Strike a
light, I got to live with it, don't
I?”
He was afraid now that the
girl would go away. The band
had begun to play “I Came
Here to Talk for Joe,” and
soon another soldier, one of
the sighted ones, might come
up and ask her to dance.
He said, “The C.O. says we’ve
got to get used to words like
.‘blind’ and ‘see.’ He says
we’ve got to act like every-
thing was still O.K. After all,
he says, -we’re only one in a
thousand. We have to keep in
step with the rest of you.”
He had begun to talk about
himself merely to hold the girl
beside him, but, as it always
did, his bitterness flooded over
into what he said.
“He has great ideas, the.
C.O. does. It was him and the
lieutenant who cooked up
these dances. They’re supposed
to give us confidence, like not
using a cane, like learning to
type and run machines and
feed a bunch of lousy chickens.
It’s to make everything seem
dandy.”
The girl said softly, “Dance
with me?”
The soldier shook his head.
“Dance with me. Please!”
“I won’t.” But his anger
was checked by her voice,
husky and pleading, and by his
fear that she would go away.
“I can’t,” he said. “I don’t
know how.”
“You do. I’m sure you do.”
“I haven’t danced since last
year, since we went overseas.”
“I knew you could!”
“I’d go bumping you into
people. You’d get knocked
down.”
“I’ll take a chance.” The
girl’s voice sounded close to
him. She said, “You won’t be
cross with me if I lead a little,
will you? Then nothing will
go wrong. Then we’ll have
fun.”
The band was playing “Long
Ago and Ear Away.” The
soldier said sharply, “Fun?”
but he held out his hands
toward her voice. When he felt
her right hand take his left
hand, he placed his other hand
in the hollow of her back. He
said, “You’re smaller than I
thought.”
“I am?”
“Blast y'r contemporary stuff! I'm sticking to dinkum Australian sculpture ."
She sounded pleased, and he
said, “You feel like a kid.”
“Hey, I’m not as young as
all that.”
“I bet you’re pretty.”
She said, “Maybe we better
try dancing. Everybody else
is.”
He took his hand from her
back and ran it slowly over
her face. “You feel pretty,”
he said. “You’ve got a high
forehead and a little nose.
What color eyes?”
“Brown. But you mustn’t go
thinking I’m pretty.”
“I will. I can tell. And I
like your mouth and chin.” He
held up his index-finger. “Did
I get lipstick on it?”
The girl laughed and said,
“It’s called Enchantment. I’ll
wipe it off with my handker-
chief.”
“Don’t.” He touched his
finger to his lips. “It tastes
good.” The girl tugged at his
left hand, preparing to dance,
but the soldier, said, “I bet
you’re the prettiest girl in the
room. I stake my life on it.”
“Please,” she said. “Please,
let’s dance.”
C|HE led him slowly toward
v the middle of the room.
The band was playing a waltz.
The floor felt smooth and
reassuring under his feet. Now
and then he stumbled and said,
“I told you what'd happen,
didn’t I?” but she always said,
“Quiet, dill! It’s fun.”
After two or three dances,
when he had gauged the size
of the floor, he began to listen
to the scattered conversations
around him, to the sound of
other soldiers and girls dancing,
without being afraid that they
would rUn him down. The other
girls’ voices seemed loud and
harsh compared to his girl’s
voice. They talked too much
about themselves and about the
war, calling out to one another
and giggling at the soldiers’
comments. One girl kept
repeating, “Stop it. Stop it.
Oh, I’ll die if I don’t stop
laughing.” But his girl hardly
spoke. Lowering his cheek to
hers, he said, “You smell good.”
She said, “It’s called Apple
Blossom.”
“Don’t give me the name of
things. I mean you smell good.”
She touched his cheek with
her fingers and said, “You’re
sweet.”
He said, “Thanks for making
me dance.”
“I was afraid to ask you for
a long time. I stood right
beside you, but I didn’t dare say
anything.”
“I could feel you there,” he
said. “I thought maybe you


<4
■|" 1 .
11X
111
111
15
ft
J.
Sz',-
rs.
m
X
SSM
P
X • v
Nothing could
he finer •. •
Take a length of the finest,
pure wool cloth you can find
in Australia.
Look for a tailor
whose fingers have all the magic
of an old-time craftsman.
Bring them together,
and what’s the result ?
Stamina De Luxe Sla'cks.
Fine Slacks, these
Australia’s best.
85883
CLOTHCS
TB.ll*
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
figured I was some sort of a
freak.”
“I didn’t!”
“I’m just telling you. That’s
why I was sore at first. I don’t
like people coming out here to
the hospital, not even enter-
tainers or Red Cross people. I
don’t like anybody being sorry
for me. I like to be left alone.”
As he spoke the words the
soldier knew that they were
untrue, or partly true, and he
was afraid that the girl would
believe them. She didn’t
answer, and he went on
hurriedly, “Only not you. I’m
glad you came out here. I don’t
want you to leave me alone.”
She squeezed his hand.
“You’re funny.”
“Am I?”
“I mean, you’re all mixed-
up.”
He couldn’t help his self-
pity. “Maybe that’s what
stopping bullets does.”
“We better not talk about
that,” the girl said.
“I don’t mind.”
“I think I’d mind.”
The music had ended, and
they were dancing to the
sound of their voices. The
soldier said, “The lieutenant
told us there’d be refreshments
on a table to the left of the
front door. Between the door
and the windows.” He tried to
keep his voice steady. “Twelve
paces,” he said. “I counted
it off before the dance. Would
you like some fancy hospital
refreshments?”
The girl said, “That would
be nice.”
She continued to hold his
hand, guiding him and pretend-
ing not to guide him across the
floor. The voices of the other
girls and soldiers grew shrill
as they approached the table.
The girl said, “You wait
here while I get something for
us.”
“It’ll only be soft drinks and
biscuits,” the soldier said. “It’s
always soft drink and biscuits.”
He imitated the singsong
voice of a child reciting in
school.
“I’ve been taught how to fill
my cup already. It’s simple.
I can tell by the temperature
of the soft-drink inside the
cup how close to the top I’m
getting.”
“Please don’t talk like that.
I’ll be back in a second.”
Ever since he had become
blind, time had passed for him
with painful slowness. Now, to
keep from growing impatient,
he counted the seconds —“a
one and a two and a three”—
between the sound of her
heels clicking away into the
{Continued on page 57)


Who Owns the Eastern Seas?
LAST week the Australian Ambassador
in Djakarta handed to the Indonesian
Foreign Minister this country’s refusal to
recognise Indonesia’s claim, made a
month ago, to a 12-mile belt of territorial
waters around the 3000 islands of the
Indonesian archipelago. The Note said
that this claim would involve sovereignty
over a vast expanse of high seas, includ-
ing the Java Sea, and of the air-space
above it. This would not be in accord-
ance with international law. Similar pro-
tests against the Indonesian declaration
have been made by Britain, France,
Holland, Japan and the United States.
International law on seaward boun-
daries is largely a matter of custom and
agreement, augmented here and there by
treaties and, in the last half-century, by
decisions of the International Court.
At the height of their maritime power
Spain and Portugal claimed most of the
world’s oceans as their exclusive
preserves. Spain asserted sovereignty
over the Pacific and Portugal over the
Indian Ocean. The South Atlantic they
divided between them, Spain claiming
the western portion, Portugal the eastern.
These claims were impossible to sustain
under challenge from the rising Naval
power of England, France and Holland,
and gradually the doctrine of the freedom
of the seas came into general acceptance.
Cannon-shot Doctrine
It has long been accepted that coun-
tries have sovereign rights over the belt
of sea adjacent to their shores, but there
is no universal rule as to the width of
these “territorial waters.”
Shortly after the emergence of the
United States as an independent nation
an agreement between Britain and
America adopted a three-mile limit for
coastal waters along their respective
territories in North America. This
appears to have been based on the
extreme cannon-range of the period, and
to have been an acceptance of the cannon-
shot doctrine advanced by a Dutch jurist
a century earlier —that dominion over
the sea ended at the furthest point that
could be defended by shore-based force
of arms. But although cannon-range
may have been the origin of the three-
mile limit, there has been no attempt to
extend the limit with increases in range.
The three-mile limit is still accepted by
Britain and America and by the majority
of nations, both for the protection of
shore-fisheries and for the preservation of
neutrality rights. There are notable
exceptions. The Scandinavian countries
maintain thaat the configuration of their
coasts demands a four-mile belt; Turkey
and Uruguay claim five miles; France,
Spain and Portugal six.
None of these distances has any relation
to the range of modern guns. Nor has the
200-mile limit claimed by Chile and
some other South American countries.
The cannon-shot measure for territorial
waters has obviously been abandoned
long ago. If it had not been, the I.C.R.M.
would make nonsense of it by stretching
the territorial waters of all countries right
across the oceans.
The three-mile limit is now merely a
convenient rule which satisfies the needs
of the majority of nations for most pur-
poses and which may be modified in par-
ticular cases or for particular purposes
provided the change doesn’t run counter t 5
established rights. Modifications include
variations in the baseline to cover bays
and inlets; also offshore islands.
Agreements and Conventions
In 1882 Britain, France, Germany,
Holland,. Belgium and Denmark signed
the North Sea Fisheries Convention
accepting a three-mile limit “measured
from low-water mark and from a straight
line drawn from headland to headland at
points where they are 10 miles across.”
A similar ruling was given by the Per-
manent Court at The Hague in 1910 in
arbitrating on the North Atlantic Fisheries
dispute between Britain and the United
States. The rule then laid down was:
In the case of bays the three miles are to
be measured from a straight line drawn
across the body of water at the place where
it ceases to have the configuration and
characteristics of a bay. At all other places
the three miles are to be measured following
the sinuosities of the coast.
More recently still (in December, 1951)
the International Court of Justice
decided, in the Anglo-Norwegian Fisheries
Dispute, that the method employed by
Norway in delimiting its territorial waters
was “not contrary to international law.”
This method consisted of drawing a
baseline connecting 47 extreme points on
the coast —regarding coast as meaning
not merely the mainland shore, but also
the string of offshore islands that fringe
the' Norwegian littoral.
It is important to note that this judg-
ment dealt with a specific dispute, that the
court stressed the unique character of the
Norwegian coast —“the mainland does not
constitute, as it does in practically all
other countries, a clear dividing-line be-
tween land and sea”—and recognised
that the system, although not stated by
decree until 1935, had a traditional basis.
Its value as a precedent to be followed
by other countries is therefore limited.
In 1956 the International Law Com-
mission which for six years had been
studying the possibilities of codifying the
law of territorial seas and high seas sub-
mitted to the United Nations a most
exhaustive report on existing laws and
usages and recommended an international
conference to attempt to draw up an
acceptable set of rules. It admitted the
difficulty of getting uniformity in regard to
the width of territorial seas, noted that
many States had fixed a width greater
than three miles and that many more did
not accept such a breadth, but the only
definite opinion it expressed was that
international law did not permit of an
extension beyond 12 miles. The whole
question, it considered, was one for an
international conference. A conference
to discuss some of tbtese problems is to
be held in Geneva next month.
Continental Shelf
Claims to control over the “continental
shelf” are a new concept which is quite
distinct from the doctrine of territorial
waters. The continental shelf may be
described as the submerged portion of a
continent extending from low-water mark
out to the 100-fathom line. Its width
varies considerably. Off Sydney it is
quite narrow, but the continental shelf to
the north of Australia is very extensive.
In 1945 a proclamation by President
Truman claimed that the natural
resources of the continental shelf
contiguous to the United States would be
regarded as under the jurisdiction and
control of the United States. The chief
purpose of this was to secure offshore
oil-drilling rights. Other countries
followed the American example. Aus-
tralia’s claim to the pearling-rights of the
North Australian continental shelf are
disputed by Japan, and will ultimately
come before the International Court.
Continental-shelf claims apply solely to
the sea-bottom of the area and the subsoil
beneath it. They do not constitute a claim
to ownership of the waters above the shelf.
The Indonesian Claim
If Indonesia is basing its new claim
on the 1956 report it has a very weak
case. To say that international law does
not sanction an extension beyond 12
miles is not to say that it does sanc-
tion in every case an extension up to 12
miles, especially a unilateral extension.
Indeed, the commission specifically
recommended that the fixing of the width
should be the task of an international
conference.
The official view of the United States
expressed quite recently (and before the
Indonesian claim was advanced) is that
there is no legal basis for claims to a
greater breadth of territorial waters than
three miles ; that international law does
not require nations to recognise a breadth
of territorial waters beyond that distance,
and that three miles is the proposal most
consistent with the principle of the
freedom of the seas and has the greatest
sanction in history and practice. The
British view is similar.
The Indonesian Government has
announced that it will justify its claims
at the Geneva conference next month. It
will have a difficult task to make out a
case for changing the rule of law accepted
in the Eastern seas for two or three
hundred years, and for claiming
sovereignty over waters that have been
international seaways ever since
merchantmen first came to the area.
Indonesian leaders are constantly
asserting that they lay claim to no terri-
tory that was not previously part of the
Dutch East Indies. The 12-mile limit is
something the Dutch never claimed.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Horses
Holiday weekend fixtures
in Australian capital cities on
Saturday and Monday next will
pep-up racing, though in most
instances top-class horses will
not be seen in action. The
A.J.C.’s £2OOO Challenge Stakes,
six furlongs, and the £2500
Anniversary Handicap, , H
mile, will be the Randwick
highlights, but stayers in the
latter will not be strong, either
in numbers or proved ability.
The field for the Challenge will
be much more interesting with
several smart sprinters in the
line-up. This race is expected
to give a line to Melbourne
prospects next month at Caul-
field and at the V.R.C. autumn
fixture, which opens on
March 1.
SELECTIONS
Challenge Stakes: NEW
SPEC, 1 ; DUBBO, 2 ; CON-
CERT STAR, 3.
Anniversary Handicap:
QUEENSBERRY, 1 ; CAM-
BRIDGE, 2; HALF HEN-
NESY, 3.
As Queensberry was last into
the straight in the final event at
Randwick, the Henry Lawson
Handicap, and got up in time
to win it in good style (though
the time was moderate), he
appeals as the likely winner of
the A.J.C. Anniversary Handi-
cap, to be run on Monday next.
Queensberry carried 7.8 and
was capably handled by the
stable-jockey, S. Cassidy. He
drops 31b. in the longer race
(14r mile) and his pull in the
weights should help to bring
victory.
• • • •
In view of her two quick
wins at Randwick following a
spell of about four months,
Concert Star has emerged as a
threat to New Spec, Dubbo,
and other smart sprinters
engaged in the A. J .C.
Challenge Stakes at Randwick
on Saturday. New Spec has
to concede her 131 b. and Dubbo
41b. Maybe New Spec will be
capable of doing so —he’s a
class sprinter, fit as hands can
make him, and is racing at best
form. Concert Star had an
effortless win in the A.J.C.
Banjo Paterson Handicap, run
in moderate time, but she had
nothing to extend her and the
track was slightly damp follow-
ing light rain and some water-
ing. All times were moderate
during the afternoon. Concert
Star is a top filly with a fine
record, including four wins at
her first four starts in Sydney
and Melbourne. She drops
from 8.2 in last Saturday’s
sprint to 7.13 in the Challenge,
and if she comes through well in
that race she may be taken to
Melbourne for the autumn
round of fixtures.
When Game Archer entered
the Randwick yearling sale-ring
in April, 1956, top bid was
425gns. and he was passed in.
A Canterbury run earlier in the
“Tell your readers I walked slap-bang into a door
on me way outa the ring."
month pointed to the now three-
year-old gelding having excel-
lent prospects in the A.J.C.
Maiden Handicap for that age-
group, and he lived up to
expectations. The gelding has
a solid background, and could
go on to better things. He is
by Stockade (imp.) from Mid-
wise by Midstream (imp.). Mid-
wise won several races at
Randwick, and her brother,
Talisman, won the 1955 Sydney
Cup. Game Archer’s rider, G.
Moore, was cheered for his
win; later in the afternoon,
when he was beaten into second
place on favorites Keep Alert
and Nearco Lad, he wasn’t so
popular.
• ♦ •’ •
Compass, a three - year - old
bred at Kia-Ora, Scone, im-
proved on prior performances
to win Canterbury Park First
Maiden Handicap in race-
record time. The colt is by
Channel Swell (imp.) from Mid-
suma by Midstream (imp.)
from Tsuma by Spearhead
(imp.), and is a half-brother to
two winners, Old Sailor and
Midwood. A better-known
relative, Advocate, was a top
winner. Compass cost 375gns.
a$ a yearling.
• • • •
Owner-breeder W. H. Duffy
appears to have a smart two-
year-old in Prince Kerdieil,
winner at each of his two
starts to date, at Hawkesbury
and Canterbury Park. In his
latest success, the Canterbury
Two-Year-Old Handicap, the
High Caste colt beat a weak
field, but he could repeat the
performance in better class.
Rosebery trainer Bob Stuart
has the colt in fine order.
Prince Kerdieil is from Lady
Kerdieil (bred in 1947) and by
Midson from Princess Lee by
Caledon (imp.) or Legionnaire
(imp.) from Freda Webber by
Air Balloon (imp.). The Duffy
colors were also carried with
success a few seasons ago by
Johnny Zero.
• • • •
Bill Cook, out of action with
a broken leg, holds a fine record
in the A.J.C. Challenge Stakes
with five winning rides. Of
other present-day jockeys, A.
Ward also has done well with
four successes. Cook won on
Gay Vista, Gay Monarch,
Felbeam, Yaralla, and Caesar;
Ward on Apple Bay, Tarien,
and San Domenico (2). Last
January My ' Kingdom, the
favorite, ridden by N. Sellwood,
covered the six furlongs of the
Challenge Stakes in 1.9-9/10,
which is the race-record. Sell-
wood also won the Anniver-
sary Handicap last season on
Empire Link, whose 2.29-9/10
was the fastest since the race
was first programmed. Next
Monday’s contest isn’t likely to
include a runner of Empire
Link’s class; he carried 9.6.
The previous year Prince Del-
ville scored with 8.12. Few
top-class stayers have won the
Anniversary in recent years.
Backers are hoping for another
winning favorite in the
Challenge on Saturday next, as
the elect won the race in the
previous three years My
Kingdom, Apple Bay, and Gay
k Vista.
• • • •
Acting on behalf of an Aus-
tralian owner, possibly a well-
known Sydney man, bloodstock
agent M. Grogan bought
the Faux Tir a g e (imp.)-
Golden Chime colt at
the New Zealand yearling-sales
for 4000gns., top price for the
first day. The colt’s dam,
Golden Chime, is by Golden
Souvenir from Kathbella by
Beau Pere (imp.). Kathbella
won 10 races and has thrown
five winners of more than
£20,000. The high-priced colt
is a second foal and a brother
to Altana, a winner on Mel-
bourne tracks. Grey Theo (11
wins, including the Frank
Underwood Cup at Canterbury)
also figures in the pedigree.
• • • •
Straight Draw, winner of the
last Melbourne Cup, was bought
at the New Zealand yearling-
sales for 2000gns! He was bred
by Mrs. Alister Williams, of Te
Parae Stud, Masterton, and
entered the sale-ring about five
minutes before the colt by
Sabaean (imp.) from Wardress,
which realised 500gns. and is
now racing as Yeman. Like
Straight Draw, a proved stayer,
Yeman was a bargain. His
latest win was in the £lO,OOO
Wellington Cup, and two years
ago he won the Auckland Cup.
Yeman covered the two miles
of the Wellington Cup in 3.19,
a New Zealand record, and half
a second faster than Australia’s
best, made in the 1950 Mel-
bourne Cup by Comic Court
and later equalled in the same
race by Evening Peal. Wardress
won 12 races in New Zealand,
including the Canterbury Cup,
1£ mile.
Wiggle has had two race out-
ings for one win, the A.J.C.
Two-year-old Stakes, worth
£7BB. She cost 360gns. as a
yearling at the Randwick auc-
tion last Easter. Wiggle looked
particularly fit, a tribute to her
Canterbury trainer, R. Shirt-
liff. Keen observers of the filly


ENTERTAIN IN STYLE
AT THE HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY
® 6 Magnificent Banquet
Rooms
® Superb Service
® Excellent Catering
Ihe friendly helpful advice of The
Hotel Metropole’s experienced staff
will make your party .planning a
distinct pleasure. You’ll find just
the atmosphere you want in one of
The Hotel Metropole’s 6 superb
banquet rooms including... .The
Elizabeth Ro o m... .Princess
Philip Windsor and York. All
have been newly decorated in strik-
ing modern colours and tastefully
furnished! Yes, the Hotel
Metropole is fast becoming the
smartest and most fashionable
Hotel in Sydney! Cocktail party,
coming-of-age party, wedding recep-
tion or business function —the
comfortable, relaxed atmosphere, the
superb catering and service and
magnificent setting make your party
an occasion to remember at the
Hotel Metropole.
THE HOTEL METROPOLE
Australia’s Largest and
Most Friendly Hotel
B 0522. Box 1601, G.P.O.
as she walked round the mount-
ing enclosure helped to reduce
the odds quoted against her.
Wiggle is by Rego (imp.), from
Sweet Nymph, by Beau Port,
from Miss Eagleton, by Veil-
mond. Arboreal, a winner of
the Queensland Cup, figures in
her pedigree. Progeny of Rego
are in their first racing year,
and they give excellent promise.
Rego won races in England to
one mile and is by Nasrullah,
from Missy Suntan, by Tai
Yang, so Rego is bred on
impressive lines.
It is unusual for a horse to
run up a sequence of five
straight wins in the metro-
politan area, but, that is now
the record of Master Rane
following his success in the six-
furlong Niddrie Handicap at
Moonee Valley last Saturday.
Against the weakest field he
has yet encountered, Master
Rane had no more than an
exercise-gallop. As mentioned
here before, the Sans Tache
(imp.) colt is a particularly
strong horse, and despite his
busy campaign, looks fitter
than ever. His stake winnings
are now £4050.
The six-year-old Masthead
horse, Matrice, has been retired.
He will go to the stud next
September. One of the best
sprinters ever to race in Aus-
tralia, Matrice won £27,215, a
figure bettered by only four
Australian sprinters. A beauti-
fully-made horse, Matrice
should be a successful sire.
In contrast to his armchair
ride on Master Rane, Bill
Williamson had to draw on his
experience to land Posh a
winner of the first Caldermeade
Handicap—a five-furlong event
for two-year-old fillies. Posh,
who had not raced since
November 5, showed her usual
speed to lead from barrier-
rise, but over the last half-
furlong she wanted to give up.
Williamson held her together
and saved a final kick to hold
off the fast-finishing Silver
Night. From five starts, Posh
has won three times, and been
second twice. She will be all
the better for Saturday’s run.
The late Les Aldridge bred
Posh, who is by Empyrean
(imp.) out of Victory Belle, at
the Kismet Park Stud. Moonee
Valley committeeman H. W.
Parbury bought the filly, which
he now races in partnership
with his wife.
• • • •
After a run of minor plac-
ings, the Newtown Wonder
filly, Manzana, broke through
for a win in the second Calder-
meade Handicap. Young
apprentice R. Mallyon, whose
riding was praised here last
week, was seen to great
advantage on the winner. In
a tight finish, he got his mount
home against senior riders Bill
Williamson and Frank Treen.
Manzana is raced by V.R.C.
committeeman W. J. T. Clarke,
who gave llOOgns. for the filly
at the Sydney yearling-sales.
As a yearling, the five-year-old
Delville Wood horse Ashwood
cost his owners, Mr. and Mrs.
P. Voet, 4000gns. On Sydney
tracks he proved disappointing,
and was brought to Melbourne
with a hurdling career planned.
However, his recent flat form
has been so good those plans
will probably be scrapped. In
the Magdala Welter at the
Valley he scored a convincing
win from Droll Prince —and on
his last couple of runs Droll
Prince is a pretty fair measur-
ing-stick. Ashwood may never
justify the high price paid for
him, but on Saturday’s run he
will win a better race than a
welter. His win completed
a treble for trainer Fred
Hoysted and jockey Bill
Williamson.
• • • •
High Gun completed a train-
ing double for “Bon” Hoysted
when he finished brilliantly to
win the s|-furlongs Argyle
Handicap—last race on the
Valley programme. The win
was unexpected; High Gun
had not raced since November,
1956. It was the second time
in a couple of. weeks that
Hoysted had produced a horse
ready to win after a long spell.
He did the same with Demi-
monde at the previous Valley
meeting. High Gun was a
brilliant two-year-old, and it
looks as if he will win more
races for his owner, Sir Rupert
Clarke.-
An interesting runner in the
Argyle was Golden Doubles. A
weight-for-age performer jat his
best, Golden Doubles broke a
sesamoid last autumn. Not
many horses come back to
racing after such an accident,
but Golden Doubles’ excellent
fourth in the Argyle indicates
he has fully recovered.
“Bon” Hoysted has charge of
a promising jumper in Carbon
Report, who is undefeated in
three starts over the sticks. The
type of hurdler about at this
time of the year is not of much
account, but Carbon Report
has the essentials of a good
hurdler—stamina, and the will
to fight on under pressure. He
jumped raggedly in the Tweed-
side Hurdle at the Valley but
fought on for a narrow win. If
his jumping improves he will
defeat better fields than he
has met so far.
At Moonee Valley a couple
of weeks ago four members of
the Hoysted family prepared
five of the eight winners. Extra-
ordinarily enough, the Hoysteds
again won five races at the same
track last Saturday. This time
Fred won a treble and son
“Bon” a double. Bill William-
son rode the three winners for
Fred Hoysted, and took his
season’s total to 32.
A winner at the Warrnam-
bool (Vic.) two-day summer-
meeting was Final Lap. By
Lucky Bag from Bobalong,
Final Lap is a full sister to
Monte Carlo. Although a five-
year-old, the mare was put to
racing only this season. From
four starts she has notched
three wins and a second. With-
out reaching the top-class of
her brother, she is proving a
good buy at the 600gns. S. F.
Millear paid for her in New
Zealand in 1954.
Although Victorian racing
lacks the lure of a jackpot
tote, the attendance at all
metropolitan tracks in that
State is showing an unexpected
upward trend. The 41,000 who
saw the racing at Flemington
on New Year’s Day was the
biggest crowd at that fixture for
a decade, and the 30,000 at the
last Caulfield meeting was the
best “gate” the V.A.T.C. has
had in January since 1945.
Trotting at the Showgrounds is
also regaining popularity.
A sale-ring bargain may have
been missed when the roan-
coated filly Turkish Model,
winner of a Three-year-old
Maiden at Wyong, was paraded
as a yearling at Randwick in the
autumn of 1956. The highest
bid then was 160gns. The filly,
now being raced by Rosebery
trainer Gordon Stewart, belongs
to the same family as Blue
Ensign and Blue Flag, two
smart ( Randwick winners. She
is by Turkaris (imp.) from
Grey Day by Roxburgh, and
traces back to True Blue.
+ +-
Sporting Dragnet
The printer having, so to
speak, declared closed last
week’s Sporting Notions page
before his two excellent knocks
against N.S.W., Gavin Stevens
was perforce omitted from the
list of South Australian bats-
men who have made two
centuries in the one match.
Apropos, by virtue of a sport-
ing closure by N.S.W. skipper
Sid Carroll and some bright
batting by, in -the main, Carroll
and Saunders, for N.S.W., and
Stevens and Harris, for S.A.,
the last day’s play in that match
was one of the brightest on the
S.C.G. for years.
* * *
More world swimming-
records :
Several more world-records were
set by Australian swimmers in the
last week. The first, on Tuesday
Jan. 14, at North Sydney Olympic
pool, was Brian Wilkinson’s 63.8 sec.
in a heat of the N.S.W. 110yds.
butterfly (which title he later won).
On the following night John
Konrads, in winning the N.S.W.
440yds. freestyle title in 4min.
25.95ec., broke Murray Rose’s
world-times (by I.2sec. and l.lsec.)'
for 440yds. and 400-metres. Rose
set his records at the 1957 N.S.W.
championships (January last year).
The same night, in winning the
N.S.W. 220yds. backstroke title in
2min. 18.8 sec., John Monckton set
new times for the 220yds. and 200-
metres backstroke. The previous
world 200 - metres backstroke
(2.18.3) was set by Gilbert


jfcy Appointment
' to H. M. King
' Jrrederik IK
By Appointment
to the tale
fUnpgeorqeA
By Appointment
to H. M. King
Gustav Vt Adolf
By
to H. M. th* -
Oue«n of torn
N*therl»ndfi
SWfc-St’iSS-*
IjjiMf.fW cu»
iijJ&tS—sg^'S3»j
CHERRY
;> ' itr
Lfrnt r in iii c
Cherry
Heering
cm ISIS D««mortt
/ liqueur delight
for your offer
dinner enjoymenf
Our.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—SWIFT & MOORE PTY. LTD,
garments, without coat or vest,
chewed gum incessantly, and
looked to weigh more than
12st.
Seating himself near the
judge, he talked in a remote
voice, hardly audible sft. away,
so that it was a minute or two
before his hearers realised that
he was rehearsing one of his
trials for vagrancy in San
Francisco. He doubled the parts
played by himself and the
judge, and reeled off the pro-
ceedings as steadily as if read-
ing from a newspaper.
After this effort of memory
he sat silent. The medical
testimony was to the effect that
he was crippled with alcohol,
and was a case for proper
treatment in an asylum. The
word “asylum" brought Griffo's
head up with a jerk.
“Ain’t this the land of the
free?” he demanded. “I
always heard it was. No man
can’t be free in no asylum, and
I ain’t insane!”
But he did not resist when
led away.
(To be continued next week)
Bozon, ot France, in 1953. Surpris-
ingly, Monckton and Queensland's
David Theile, who in the past few
year have between them set world-
jig ures for nearly every other back-
stroke distance, don’t seem to have
bothered about the 200-metre and
220yds. figures.
On the last night of the N.S.W.
championships, last Saturday, John
Konrads brought his tally of world-
records at the championships to
six by setting new times for the
200-metres and 220yds. freestyle.
(The previous Saturday night the
remarkable Konrads had broken the
880yds. and 800-metres records.)
He won the 220yds. in 2min. 4.Bsec.,
with Gary Chapman second in 2.5.2,
also inside the old time of 2.5.8, set
by Chapman and Jon Henricks at
the Australian titles on Feb. 18,
1956. In that 1956 swim Chapman .
and the then “reigning” world free-
style-sprinter, Henricks, both swam
the distance in the same time, but
Chapman was awarded the race by a
touch.
* * *
Varying fortunes of cricket!
Around December, 1955, two
at least of today’s Sheffield
Shield stars were copping brick-
bats, not bouquets, from critics
or selectors, or both. Norm
O’Neill, described by many to-
day as Australia’s most
“dynamic” cricketer (inciden-
tally, he made 201 not-out in
a grade-match on Saturday),
was being well and truly brick-
batted after an unsuccessful
southern tour —his selection for
the tour was “a mistake,” as
he'd got a duck against S.A.
and fielded very badly. He’d
“done nothing to justify a
further trial,” and the selectors
rightly dropped him. S.A.
opening-batsman Stevens, who’s
making runs galore at the
moment, was, like O’Neill, in
the doldrums in December, ’55
—against N.S.W. in Adelaide
he was missed twice before he
scored in the first innings and
at 1 in his second innings,
despite which let-offs he only
made 5 and 3! His name also
disappeared for a while from
his Shield team’s batting-list.
O’Neill now seems certain to be
playing for S.A. in the next
Shield season.
* * *
Rugby Union international:
At Lansdowne Road, Dublin,
Ii eland won its first international
event over a touring Dominion
Rugby Union team by just getting
there against the Wallabies, 9-6. The
Wallabies were without Lenehan and
Miller, out through injuries, who
may have made a difference to the
result. Australia scored first, lOmin.
after the start, with a try by winger
Phelps after a long run; but Ireland
had equalled with a penalty before
half-time. Halfway through the second
half, five-eighth Summons scored
after a brilliant solo effort. Ireland
caught up lOmin. from the end with
a try near the posts, unconverted,
after the Irish forwards had charged
down an attempted relieving
kick from behind the goal-line. A
draw seemed certain. Australia had
possession and were attacking, but,
after an intercept, Irish skipper Noel
Henderson galloped 50yds. to score
almost on the bell. Ireland five-
eighth Kyle, in his 44th Test,
equalled the world-record for Test-
appearances. (The Wallabies were
also beaten, 9-3, in their inter-
national against Wales.)
* * *
“Tom”: It was recently
announced that Fiji has been,
invited to send a cricket-team
to tour England next year. The
request was made that 75 p.c. of
the players have “bushy hair
and play in bare feet and native
skirts.” That's a romantic
fiction—nowadays there ain’t
no Fijians with long, bushy
hair playing who could possibly
get into a touring side. The
Fijian Cricket Association
intends to pick the best possible
team —and if the Fijian
cricketers are anywhere near
as good as the Fijian Rugby
Unionists who have visited Aus-
tralia in recent years, it will be
a good one.
“Atala”: When Colin Mc-
Donald was dismissed for 99
in the second Test against South
Africa, he was the seventh
Australian batsman to be dis-
missed for that score in a Test.
The others are, in order, Clem
Hill (v. England in Melbourne
in 1902), Macartney (v. Eng-
land at Lord’s in 1912),
Chipperfield (v. England at
Nottingham in 1934—thus just
missing out on a century in his
first Test-match), Brown (v.
India in Sydney, 1947-48),
Miller (v. England in Adelaide,
1950-51) and Morris (v. South
Africa in Melbourne, 1952-53).
Brown and Morris were both
run-out.
“Vic”: S*am Loxton, *M.P.,
Victorian skipper, came to light
with some worth-while batting
and bowling in the holiday
Shield games in Melbourne.
Which prompted an “outer”
comment, not, perhaps, alto-
gether justified—“ Sam is doing
more on the cricket-field than
he is as a member of Parlia-
ment.”
“Kabara”: Sam Loxton has
been doing very well in Shield-
cricket, even though on
pennant-cricket performances
early in the season he did not
earn his selection. Loxton, of
course, is well into the
“veteran” stage hence,
jovially, Sir Donald Bradman,
in a recent letter to him, as
reprinted in a Melbourne
daily: “I hear that your form
with both bat and ball is quite
remarkable for a man of your
age.” Still, Sir Donald was still
making plenty of runs in
Tests and elsewhere when he
was Loxton’s age, and more.
• • • «
“Veryl”: On the second day
of the Australians’ match
against Transvaal at Johannes-
burg recently, Transvaal skipper
Waite appealed for a stoppage
of play—it wasn’t, he claimed,
an appeal against the light but
against the wet conditions. It
recalled the 1935-36 Test at
Johannesburg when, in the
worst of light, Stan McCabe,
who finished with 189 not-out,
was hammering the South
African bowlers—and S’African
skipper Wade successfully
appealed against the light!
That is the only case I know
of in a first-class match where
the skipper of the fielding side
appealed against the light,
....
Sopth Australian batsman
Lindsay Head had, up to the
game against N.S.W., hit at
least one six in each of his five
Shield games—an unusual feat.
He’s also rung the pickets a few
times in most of his knocks,
Head is an enterprising bats-
man—should be more of ’em.
South Australia is at the bottom
of the Shield table, but on the
whole its batsmen have played
brighter cricket than have those
of ojher States.


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy Metallurgy of Gold, by
T. K. R05e.—6655.
To buy The Pea Pickers, by Eve
Langley.—66s6.
To buy Australian Nursery
Rhymes (published 1918). —6657.
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning of the aboriginal word
Bidgemia?
Information Sought
(1) What were some of English
bowler Alec Bedser’s best bowling-
figures, in Tests? (2) Total wickets
taken by Bedser in Tests? (3) Was
the last Test in which he played the
Test in Brisbane in 1954-55 ?
(1) His greatest Test performance
was undoubtedly his 7-55 and 7-44
in the first 1953 Test v. Australia at
Nottingham. In the second 1953
lest he took 5-105 and 3-77, in the
third Test 5-115 and 2-14, in the
fourth Test 6-95 (and 1-65); and in
that series took in all 39 wickets, a
record (till broken by Laker with
46 wickets in 1956) for an Australia-
England series. In 1950-51 in Aus-
tralia he had several good efforts —
4- and 3-9 in the first Test, 4-37
and 2-43 in the second, 5-46 and
5- in the fifth. In his very first
Test, against India at Lord’s in
1946, he took 7-49 and 4-96, and
followed it by 11 wickets in the
second Test. Against South Africa
m 1951 he took 6-37 in the second
innings of the first Test, and took
12-112 in the third Test. (2) Bedser
piayed in all in 51 Tests, taking 236
wickets at an average of 24.89 each.
(3) No, he played in one more Test
—the third Test against South Africa
in Manchester in 1955, taking 2-92
and 2-61.
Brief Answers
K.R.: Sales-tax was imposed in
Australia for the first time in
August, 1930 J.J.8.: The per-
centage in the case in point would
be 9|... .A.T.C.: The poems are
included in Rudyard Kipling’s Verse,
1885-1932 (inclusive edition). The
words of Kipling’s poem “If ”
have been posted to you A.L.:
According to figures recently
released, .there are 88,563 TV-
hcences in Victoria and 72,809 in
N.S.W J.E.8.: Very sorry, but
unable to help you. This is not a
matrimonial - agency... .F.8.M.:
Write Lennox Walker, Crohamhurst
Observatory, Crohamhurst (Queens-
land). .. .R. 8.: Doubt whether you
would be able to get a copy of the
book. It was withdrawn from sale
almost immediately after publica-
tion... .D.W.H.: H. A. Bowden,
general-manager of J. C. Williamson
Theatres, Ltd., states that his firm’s
records do not disclose that any
Australian author has ever had two
of his plays running in an Australian
city at the one time.... H.C.: (1)
The best available technical advice
should be secured before any money
is put into a mining venture. Full
knowledge of locality, transport-
facilities, water-supply, etc., would
be necessary before any useful
advice could be given. (2) Write
Queensland Mines Department,
Treasury Buildings, Brisbane... .S.S.:
(1) John L. Sullivan was heavy-
weight champion of the world from
Feb. 7, 1882, when he knocked out
Paddy Ryan in nine rounds at
Mississippi City, to Sept. 7, 1892,
when at New Orleans James J.
Corbett knocked him out with a
left to the jaw lmin. 20sec. after the
start of round 21. (2) He died on
Feb. 2, 1918, aged 59. (3) See
John L. Sullivan, by Nat Fleischer
(1951).... V.N.S.: You will not be
sent to jail over a hire-purchase
matter... .W.E.: (1) The council is
not bound by law to uphold B. (2)
If it has any powers at all they
would be discretionary. (3) The
facts you give have considerable
bearing on the case. This sbrt of
thing requires a good deal of local
knowledge and you would be well
advised to place the matter in the
hands of your solicitor....
A. 8.: (1) You are not compelled to
keep copies of your income-tax
returns at all if you don’t want to.
It is advisable to keep them, but the
length of time they should be kept
depends on the size of your income
and the complication of the sources
of it. For people of moderate
income whose returns are simple
and honestly made, two or three
years should he enough. For
cheque-butts and receipts six years
is safe, but again it depends on the
sort of thing that has to be paid
for. For people in a simple mode
of life two or three years would
be enough. (2) Calculation of a
lair rent under the Landlord and
Tenant Act is a complicated business
and is best done by an experienced
person of the type now known as
fair-rent advocates. A Fair Rents
Board will consider the increased
value and the increases in the
amounts you have to pay G.N.:
He’s a full-blood aborigine
W.F.S.: Surveyors are able to find
the correct boundaries of land by
reference to other points in the
neighborhood rather than by refer-
ence to the fences already there. If
a fence is encroaching on your
property you may have it removed.
. ...M.0.: Your 1852 stamp
franked “Liverpool—New S. Wales”
has a catalogue-value of 155., but its
actual value would depend on con-
dition, etc. Consult a stamp-dealer.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contribution j voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
J.H.: Why rhyme “marital” with
“partial”? ... .B.B.: Gray elegied
before y0u.... J.W.: Stumbles along
like a runaway dustbin N.N.G.:
You’re not the first to observe
“night’s Stygian inkiness laced with
silver slivers of moonlight”... .F.H.:
Hardly worthy of comment
G.N.T.: “I thought I’d try you with
a poem.” Quite frankly, you did.
S.V.S.: There’s a point or two
somewhere in that confused tangle.
B.R.: Take sick stockmen else-
where. .. .T.M.R.: “Lo! Morn hath
dappled the soft hilltops with gold.”
Hath it? A.1.W.: Seventeen
pages on your new job! K.R.:
Make stories shorter, and don’t
fake backgrounds L.8.N.: It’s
a cheery little poem, but “talk”
rhymed with “fork” will never do.
....F.G.F.: Erie Stanley Gardner
vyas miles and murders before you.
F.J.: Characters need more
careful definition; avoid sub-
merging them with descriptive
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.]
passages H.H.: Your “Lament”
was lamentable J.K.: Mot bad;
come again... .L.J.: You turn a trip
t > Manly into a funeral-procession.
W.B.: No space for space-men.
... .F,L.: Unconvincing... .E. 8.:
Must you “cast awe-stricken eyes”
at the “teeming populace”?....
sth Instalment of
Stockmen All
By W.F.H.
[Big Bill fights the thief Davis
.. .Davis puts in the boot.. .So does
Bill.]
FLIES, sand flies, and mosquito
were bad around the line of fence
and every word spoken was followed
by a smack as one or two of the
pests landed on someones face etc.
After much talk and flirtation with
a young gin Bill mentioned a
robbery at his camp someone had
stolen his food and an Elgin silver
Hunter watch one he kept in reserve
going to the station for more rations
he mentioned the robbery to the
station storekeeper who looking
around cautiously said, “I have seen
that big half caste Jim Davis with
a silver watch, be careful of him
Bill, he is a bad un and can fight
like a trooper.” Straight away Bill
went looking for Davis and found
him helping the cook, feeling sure
of himself Bill said Davis I am
told you have a silver watch do you
want to sell, it?” Davis with a
grin produced Bills watch and after
examining it put it in his pocket.”
Davis, looking at Bill said, how
much you give me for watch eh! ”
this, said Bill as he landed a solid
punch on Davis jaw and another
one in his stomach, Davis took the
punches and followed with a battery
of hard punches on Bills jaw and
down he went to feel Davis put the
•boot in and attempt to kill him.
The Cook then grabbed a
chopper and threatened to chop
Davis down if he did not cease kick-
ing Bill, by that time many men
were around and Davis was ordered
to leave the station and never return
spitting in Bills face he reluctantly
moved off shouting, I am glad to
leave you lousy lot of cows with
the knowledge that I can beat the
lot of you with that Bill again went
for him and this time it was savage
punch for punch blood everywhere
and in the middle of a solid rally
Davis broke and ran away and when
clear of Bill put his fingers to his
nose and yelled, “I will get even
with you if it takes me a
lifetime” and away vanished Davis
the thief who robbed Bills camp
without knowing whose it was.
Bill kept chatting and when about
to go he said, “I will bring my
Concertina along and we can have
a musicale.” “When will you be
coming Bill.” Oh, in a few days
time I am about two miles away
near the blackfellow soak where
the grass is long and sweet 1 find
many kanga there in fact I have a
hundred quids worth of skins
around camp already and looking
ai Emu, he said, “how about you
getting a buckboard and helping me
get them to Cunnamulla you could
have a wonderful time in town
buying things and looking at the
trains puffing along, think it over
Emu, I will wait a few days before
moving off.” Picking up his 32
winchester Bill said, goodbye pals
1 will be around soon you are fine
company for any lonely man, and
looking at Bootlace, he asked, how
is my gin and family tell her I am
now oft the grog and she can come
along any time she likes, Bill will
welcome her tell her I am very
lonely, and my dogs miss her so.
Auer he had gone the b’iackboys
talked of the fight and they grew
apprehensive of some impending
danger to Bill at that lonely soak
but as Possum said, Bill is good
bushman and tracker he can look
after himself we need not fear for
him as he could shoot the eye from
needle.
Work went on and the fence was
showing shape despite the dense
scrub Gilgai h.oles and no room to
move one would chop posts another
put up and others bore posts while
gins i an me wire il was a go as you
can style and progress was remark-
able one day some bushmen arrived
at the station looking for work and
Jackie his mates were released to
carry on at stock work on the two
stations cattle, and sheep shearing
was coming along and much muster-
ing had to be done. When muster-
ing one paddock Jackie found 46
ewes killed by dingoes and Mr. Lean
raised the price of dingoes to £5 a
head Which made it £6 with one
pound from the Pastures Protection
Board so Dingo Bill and others were
in clover where dogs were many
and had traps, poison and Rifles
t.) contend with and also platforms
in trees adjoining tanks or, known
as dams on the property. A shooter
would be high up among the
branches of a tree lying on a plat-
form built for the purpose of shoot-
ing dogs Cattle, or Brumby on a
fine moonlight night a male dog
would appear silently sniffing the
air for signs of danger and when
satisfied he would whimper and
mum and her pups would appear
and crawl down to drink the water
in the deep dam then the shooter
would open fire and on many an
occasion got the lot about £5 for a
few hours work.
When all paddocks were mustered
drafted and a total kept of how
many ewes, lambs, whethers, and
rams were ready for shearing. Dur-
ing the time this work went on
the shearers began to muster at the
Woolshed and a fine crowd they
were some being atheletes running
wrestling, and boxing one chap from
Sydney baing near championship
form and hearing Jackie was good
with the gloves he challenged him to
fight for a £lO stake or more if he
wanted it. Jackie, accepted the
challenge, and Jimmie, the boys
helped him to get in shape for the
match which came off midway
through the shed Jackie, belting him
the challenger Toby Ryan to the
boards. Dingo Bill had sold his
skins and for company hung around
the shed perming up the sheep Mr.
Lean being sympathetic gave him the
job, and Bill was happy the job
enabling him to gamble and fleece
the shearers who unsuspecting
played with this lucky rouseabout
who always seemed to win and try
as they did nobody detected any
flaw in his games of Poker Hazards,
with dice or two up no doubt he was
a skilled crook and how his money
grew many saying Bill had hundreds


2 sects
®»S//
y-.
2«/c*i
y
insect aerosol...
\AkAjt I j A/ /
MM, tMI/ i
i
Si
%
\
m
¥
s* c :
\H
SAM.tOX.CM4
Ju
St
PtQ
S&
th
b Utt
Oft
kills
them
instantly
Complies with
World Health Organisation
REQUIREMENTS
Economical, self-contained spray.
A little ‘GAMMEXANE’
sprays a whole room.
Marketed by
mm
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUST. & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
in money and cheques. Work, even-
ing pastimes, and much in general
went on until one day Bill ran foul
of Tom Hennessey the big gun
shearer and then fireworks were on
lilll was hustling the sheep up the
race with rattles and being very
timid or stubborn they were slow
in reaching the race behind the pens
and some were empty including the
gun shearers pen and he opened
the back gate of his pen and
grabbed a sneep when Bill swearing
like a trooper was doing. his best
to encourage the reluctant sheep to
go into the shed and being over-
heated and cranky Bill looked up
and saw Hennessy grab a sheep and
make the others turn back towards
him which made him see red and
turning to the shed he hopped over
the sheep backs until he was near
Hennessy and saying, “Hey! you
mug cant you wait until your pen
is filled.” Hennessy, had just
finished his sheep and came through
the back gate of his pen to take
another sheep when Bill shoved
him back and started to fill his pen,
Hennessy glowed at him and slowly
said you will keep wait
until tonight and I will give you what
you are looking for” Bill silently
gazed at the big chap and said,
“you need not wait big boy we can
settle all disputes here if you feel
inclined.”
Hennessy knew he had a
chance of being sacked if caught
fighting so he ignored Bills challenge
and the incident was closed for the
time. That night when tea was
over Hennessy came to Bill who was
playing poker and finding him seated
told him to come outside and have
it out. Bill arose and saying to the
players i will be back in a few
seconds went outside where a crowd
were already assembled awaiting the
outcome of the fight. Stepping for-
ward Bill feinted with his left and
passed a heavy right to Hennessys
jaw and he went down to remain
there and Bill, looking at him went
inside to rob his pals at cards. And
ir. the shadows outside lurked
Davis who would fiave loved to play
cards and perhaps rook the shearers
as Bill did but he managed to enter
the rousies hut unnoticed and play
cards eat his fill of good food and
job the huts of any article he could
lay hands on..
One rouseabout having his razor
stolen blamed Stockwhip for theiv-
ing it and after a wordy argument
Stockwhip told the rousie to go to
hell! me be no tief what you bin
talkin erbout me honest man you
ask Jackie, so Jackie was found
and he vouched for his four boys
who were accepted as beyond sus-
picion but just the same a lot of
theiving went on and the men were
hostile. Having seen Davis around
Emu kept a close watch on his
movements and seeing him come
from the mens huts or sleeping
quarters he challenged Davis who
instantly punched Emu, and fled
instantly Jackies, four boys were
after Davis and catching him they
belted him until he was near dead.
When recovered he waited until
nightfall and finding an old square
gin bottle he smashed it and finding
Emu, asleep jabbed the jagged ends
into his face and when the turmoil
was at its peak slipped Emu feather
moccasins on his feet and hastily
sped to his bower bird nest at an old
soak many miles away. Poor Emu
his face was in pieces and Jackie
tenderly placed the pieces together
and using one of his white silk
shirts bandaged his favourite black-
boys face while the others tried to
locate Davis who had dissapeared
to hide forever as blackboys never
forget an injustice.
The boys searched all Camps on
the deep creeks and visited all soaks
on the station but missed the one
Davis was living at and when thor-
oughly tired gave it away and tried
to help Emu. To Jackies credit he
did a fine job with Emu’s face and
when healed a few scars remained.
Bill and Hennessy had another row
Bill saying the shearer was slow and
he would bet him a tenner he could
shear a sheep cleaner and faster than
Hennessy could the money was
covered and Bill took the pen
nearest to the gun shearer and after
a tense scene Bill won on all points
the shearers gazing open mouthed
at a rouseabout beating their ringer.
On that exhibition Bill was offered
a stand on the board but declined
saying, “I gave it away because I
was getting too big and the work
played up with me if I slave at
shearing I drink myself stupid so
why do it for booze when I can
earn enough with my rifle shooting
Dingoes and Kanga.
The shearing had finished and all
hands were on the move Station men
back at Cattle work and Bill in his
camp playing his accordeon and
singing in a loud baritone voice
which echoed throughout the bush-
land he was having a spell from
everything the shearers had provided
him with enough cash to live forever
as he lived so one day he strolled
rifle in hand to shoot a plain turkey
and as he emerged from scrub to
open country his dogs stood still and
looked ahead he also looked and
saw Davis and in the distance his
wife running from Davis sizing
things up he shouted to Davis to
come to him but Davis looking
at him started to run away, and Bill
fired a shot at Davis who promptly
stopped and awaited the arrival of
his enemy. When close to Davis Bill
said, Hello! Davis, I suppose you
feel inclined to continue our fight
of a few Months ago and placing
his rifle on the ground he told his
dogs to watch it, and straight away
he shaped up to Davis, who swing-
:ng into position and a savage fight
was on this time Davis was down
and Bills boot was staving his ribs
in and after a torrid time Bill left
Davis to the mercy of the crows or
his own devices it was cruel but
what could you expect Bill had
expierenced a kicking from Davis,
and Emu had his face ripped to
pieces by this black fiend and in the
law of the bush things were even,
(To be concluded next week)


UNCABLED
ADDITIONs
AMERICA AND EUROPE
A RGUMENTS over the
setting-up of U.S. missile-
bases in Britain are likely to
go on for a long time, but in
the meantime it is interesting
to consider the opposing points
of view.
Missile Bases
“Manchester Guardian,” in
a thoughtful summing-up of
the case against them, points
out that “The four bases on the
East Coast —or however many
it turns out to be —will be
placed in fixed sites. Their
locations will be well known.
That is unavoidable because of
the disturbance their construc-
tion will cause, and because
they will be easily detected by
air photography.
“They will take three or four
years to build (and if anyone
says otherwise let him think of
how long it has taken to fail
to build most of the South Uist
rocket-range). By then the
Russian armed forces will be
well equipped with medium-
and long-range missiles of their
own, probably in large
numbers.
“Since the initiative in any
offensive action is bound to lie
.with them they will be able to
destroy instantly any known
base in Britain. They would
have difficulty in doing so only
if there were so many bases,
not only in Britain and the
United States but also at
numerous other points of the
compass, that they could not
deal with them simultaneously.
Of that there is no early
prospect.
“The missile-stations in Eng-
land and Scotland will be
openly vulnerable. What good,
then, will they do? They will
add less to the deterrent than
obsolescent bombers, which at
least can achieve some im-
munity from surprise destruc-
tion by staying in the air.”
As against the “Manchester
Guardian” view there are
papers like London “Daily
Express” which say flatly that
any opposition to the bases is
“dangerous folly”:
“If America and Russia are
involved in war Britain is
certain to be in it also. In
such a war the power to hit
back would be vital. It would
be all-important.
“Were Britain to deny her-
self the means to retaliate she
would be virtually defenceless.
The Americans have the means
to retaliate: intermediate-
range ballistic missiles and
round-the-clock H-b o m b
patrols.
“Realism and self-interest
demand that Britain accept
—and accept gladly—these
American weapons.”
Mutual Dependence
In another thoughtful
editorial comment, London
“Daily Telegraph” points out
that “there is a point which
should attract more attention
than it has.
“It is that the Allied rocket
in the new bases that are to be
set up will be kept separate
KAPUTNIK NUMBER TWO
London “Daily Express”
from the American warhead.
If we [the “D.T.”] understand
the position correctly, no
nuclear warhead can be fitted
to the Allied missile, without
the ally’s consent; and the
trigger that fires it has to be
pressed not by one finger but
by two —one American and
one Allied. This is interdepen-
dence in a new sense. It is
tantamount to making the
use of missiles designed as the
American first line of defence
subject to an ally’s veto. The
pledge in the Nato Treaty that
we in Europe will help protect
the United States and Canada
is honored for the first time —
on terms.
“This new dependence of our
[Britain’s] chief ally on us will
not begin for a year or more.
Even then it may last only the
few years that it taJkes to pro-
vide the Americans with their
own long-range missiles. But
that period could be immensely
fruitful for the Atlantic com-
munity. Never before has the
American public even had to
consider the thought that their
security might be dependent on
our politics. Never before
have the complex political im-
plications of these new weapons
appeared so revolutionary.
“Strange that men as far
apart as Lord Hinchingbrooke
and Mr. Bevan, each with a
fine nose for British depen-
dence, should not have grasped
this sudden spurt in American
dependence on Britain.”
London “Economist” con-
siders that “there are fewer
objections to placing the
launching-sites here [in Britain]
than in any European
country”:
“Here, on the periphery of
Europe, they will interfere less
with the success of any possible
future negotiations than any-
where else. Even if (as now
seems unlikely) the sun shines
brightly on the hopes of dis-
engagement and, without
danger to the security of
Western Europe, the troops can
be pulled back from their
forward positions, Britain is
likely to be the last country
affected. Nor do they add a
new element of (in Mr. Bul-
ganin’s phrase) ‘magnetism’ to
nuclear attack; for Britain
already houses atom-bombers,
and in accepting missile sites as
well it is, in effect, only repeat-
ing what it said in 1948: that
it is willing to run the risk of
Russian counter-attack in order
to make sure that the Western
deterrent is workable.”
European Missiles
Another point which seems
to be passed over rather lightly
by those who argue that the
U.S. bases would attract enemy
attention is that several Euro-
pean countries are well on with
their own missile programmes.
The scientific correspondent of
London “Financial Times”
points out, for example, that
Britain, West Germany, France
and Italy are producing or
developing over a dozen missiles
having comparable perform-
ance to U.S. missiles. More-
over, the “Financial Times”
writer adds, these missiles could
be in production (and in some
cases are in production already)
by at the latest 1959.
The European missiles in pro-
duction or development are:
Anti - tank U.K.: two,
visually guided and self-
homing ; France: three (Sfec-
mas 5200, Sfecmas 5210 and
Entac).
Ground-to-ground U.K.:
two, including one IRBM and
one ICBM ; France: two (Sfec-
mas 4200 and SS10) ; Italy and
West Germany: one under
development.
Ground -to - air U.K.:
Ferranti - Bristol Blood-
hound and English-Electric
Thunderbird ; France: Parca
SE4IOO and 5E4300.
Air-to-air —U.K.: De Havil-
land Firestreak, Fairey Fire-
flash, Vickers Red Dean;
France: Matra Rosi and Sfec-
mas 5103.
Ship-to-air U.K.: Arm-
strong-Whitworth—G.E.C. Sea-
slug ; France: two under
development.
U.S. View
American comment on Euro-
pean antagonism to U.S.
missile-bases is summed-up by
New York “Herald Tribune”
in its assessment of “a funda-
mental change taking place in


GIVES
MORE MILES
Doubles road grip!
VJ
K
/va/7%&0 oo7S/oe/ 3-TeowM/oe/
Custom Super/cushion
The most modern tyre you can buy
OUTSIDE: The amazing Twin-Tread pattern with 8,640 gripping
edges, gives mighty traction, increases braking effectiveness,
offers outstanding resistance to side-slip and spin and is
quieter running.
INSIDE: Miracle 3-T cord, exclusive to Goodyear tyres. In-
creases bruise resistance, creates a cooler-running tyre, beats
"tyre-growth" and allows more retreads.
MORE MILES: Road-hugging tread reduces road abrasion to e
minimum. The thousands of traction slits moulded into the
Twin-Tread pattern dissipate heat, increasing tread mileage.
Miracle "cold-rubber", toughest tread compound ever, also
contributes to extra mileage.
SMOOTHER RIDE: There's never been a tyre to settle to the
road so flexibly ... to give such smooth cushioning.
SLEEK STYLING: From tread to bead the emphasis is on grace-
ful styling to match the free-flowing lines of today's fine care.
Bring
your car up-to-date
by
Custom Super/dushion
good/vear
PI26P


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
the relations of America and
the rest of the free world”:
“The change,which Europeans
understand but Americans
do not yet fully realise, grows
out of the fact that the Soviet
lead in intercontinental ballistic-
missiles places all of America,
and its great cities, in the very
front line of attack in any
nuclear war. By the same
token, Europe, which formerly
was the most exposed salient in
the event of war, and which
could be expected to feel its
first and most terrible brunt,
has now become a rear-line
area in a strategical sense—
although in some of its political
thinking it still is a front line.
In other words, the former
situation has now been totally
reversed. Because the ICBM
can overleap whole continents,
America is now in the front
line and Europe is now in the
rear line.
“Only when this is fully
understood can one understand
the new kind of isolationism
which Norway and Denmark
produced at the Nato con-
ference (in their reluctance to
become missile - bases) and
which is now emerging in the
House of Commons in Britain.
“The spokesman for this new
and different kind of isola-
tionism is Aneurin Bevan, of
the British Labor Party.
Bevan’s Influence
“It is easy enough to dismiss
Bevan as a misguided pacifist,
or a deluded idealist who is
playing Khrushchev’s game
without realising it. The
important thing to bear in mind
is that Gallup Polls in Britain
indicate that Bevan has more
public support for his position
than does the Government in
backing American policy.
“Bevan is placing great
stress on the apparent surrender
of British sovereignty in the
fact that United States planes
loaded with H-bombs are on
24-hour patrol over England,
but Macmillan does not control
them. A Gallup Poll —which
may not be very significant—
New York “Herald Tribune"
PROMENADE
did show that 49 per cent, of
the British people oppose these
H-bomb patrols, while only 36
per cent, favor them. A bigger
majority are opposed to making
Britain a rocket-base.
‘'‘The Europeans are very
old hands at questions which
have to do with the funda-
mental realities of power. They
are very well aware that not
until we [the U.S.] have per-
fected our own missiles and
regained arms supremacy will
we be able to negotiate from
strength. Until that happens,
they are not eager to make
deals on intermediate rockets
which are not even ready.
“What these realities argue
for America is that we must
make all of our programmes
far more bold and imaginative,
not only in the means of war-
fare but particularly in the area
of economic warfare and tech-
nological assistance to the have-
not nations. This is the area
in which Khrushchev has
openly challenged us, and there
is no reason to think that he
does not mean what he says.”
G.B.S. and A.B.C.
Doubts about that section
of George Bernard Shaw’s will
which set aside a certain sum
to be spent on a new 40-letter
alphabet having been resolved
to the extent that £B3OO has
been allocated for that purpose,
“Manchester Guardian” does
not altogether agree with the
Public Trustee that the sum
is sufficient to carry out Shaw’s
wishes:
“Certainly it will be enough
for the second and more
eccentric trust, providing for
the translation of ‘Androcles
and the Lion’ into the pro-
posed new alphabet (which has
still to be devised) and its
publication.
“But the first trust was wider
in scope ; it was directed to
research into the question
what time and money might be
saved by the adoption of the
revised alphabet in place of
the current one. This is far
from being a nonsensical idea.
Even if the inquiry did not
establish that the particular kind
of alphabet envisaged by Shaw
would be more economical, it
might still throw valuable light
on shortcomings in and possible
improvements to the present
alphabet, and so lead to worth-
while changes.
“But the sort of research
needed to get significant results
in a field like this would
probably cost a good deal, and
it seems doubtful whether there
will be enough to give it a fair
chance after Androcles has had
his share. In seizing the shadow
of Shaw’s idea, we may be
losing something of substance.”
U.S. and U.K.
Economies
Whatever effect President
Eisenhower’s Budget may have
on the U.S. economy, the end
of 1957 saw rather gloomy
prognostications about Uncle
Sam’s financial health and the
overseas repercussions of any
setback.
Noting that the U.S. pro-
duction - index had dropped
eight points from its peak of
December, 1956, and that U.S.
steel output was down to 70
per cent, of capacity, Edin-
burgh ‘‘Scotsman” comments,
however, that “there can and
will be no repetition of the
1929 debacle when the Govern-
ment in Washington can [now]
make cuts in interest-rates and
in taxes, when it can inflate
credit by running a Budget
deficit, when it can spend larger
and larger sums on defence and
foreign aid, and even in the
last resort raise the dollar-price
for gold and vastly broaden
the credit-basis of the gold-
reserves in Fort Knox.
“While, therefore, the U.S.
recession may be worse before
it is better we can rely upon the
necessary corrective measures
being taken even if they are
slower to take effect than the
authorities would wish.
“The question which arises
in the interim is whether the
United Kingdom and the
Continent need follow any U.S.
recession to the depths. Must
we, in other words, always take
our lead from Wall Street?
Certainly we must acknowledge
that the United States as major
consumer of the world’s raw
materials has the biggest say
in the demand for them and
therefore in their price. The
United States, too, has taken
the lead as the world’s banker,
a position held for so long by
this country [Britain].
“Not until January, 1959,
are the first liberalisation
moves due in connection with
the establishment of the Euro-
pean Common Market, but on
New Year’s Day the treaty
came into force, bringing into
being a European entity
which could provide a powerful


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY. *
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ~
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... <B/13/0 Foreign .... £3/6/-
Please add exchange to. country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.t Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
London “New Statesman”
CALLING FORTH MIRACLES?
counter to any deflationary
forces from across the Atlantic.
“Meanwhile, other means of
combating a U.S. recession
should be examined. The
United Kingdom has in recent
years, as becomes the position
of sterling as the basis of half
the world’s trade, given a
powerful lead in forming world
monetary policy.
“Our own [Britain’s] domes-
tic problems and our internal
inflationary pressure demand at
the moment stringent control
of credit and a seven-per-cent,
bank-rate which must result in
a reduction in capital expendi-
ture and ultimately in the
demand for consumer goods
which is still so much in
evidence, to judge by the
record £2llB - million note -
circulation. Is this the time to
consider a revision of a home
policy which may only aggra-
vate deflationary pressure from
the United States?”
London “Daily Telegraph,”
also commenting on the same
subject, adds that it is com-
forting that the pessimists
expect no more than a “reces-
sion” in the U.S., a conclusion
supported by America’s rising
population, increased expendi-
ture on roads and schools,
built-in stabilisers of price-
supports, and social benefits.
As far as Britain is con-
cerned, the “D.T.” notes, there
is the possibility of even more
consolation than that:
“So far, the decline in busi-
ness activity in America has
not harmed our [Britain’s]
exports: they have continued
to rise. There is even some
evidence that the British car is
no longer being bought merely
as a second car but on its own
merits for cheapness and per-
formance. A slight recession
might even increase sales.”
After Suez
Commenting on Nasser’s
tardiness in visiting Port
Said during the first anniver-
sary of the Suez affair, London
“Daily Telegraph” suggests
that “the plainest reason is
that ‘victory’ looked too much
like defeat to Egyptians who
experienced it at close
quarters”:
“It is safer to celebrate the
Anglo-French withdrawal from
Port Said a year afterwards, for
the overwhelming event at the
time was the Egyptian with-
drawal from Sinai.
“It may well be that
memories of these events are
softening, but the consequences
of saving Nasser and his
ambition are still with us. The
most fanatical of Arab nation-
alists cannot regard him as an
architect either of victory or
of unity. In Egypt his personal
position is not unchallenged.
Another plot against his regime
is less significant than the need
he feels to bolster his popularity
by belatedly announcing it —
and ascribing it to ‘imperialism/
His hand-picked Parliament is
showing, signs of developing a
will of its own. Abroad, his
pan-Arab imperialism has failed
to swallow Jordan and recoils
in meaningless resolutions
about unity with Syria.
“That Nasser still harbors
the design of uniting the
Moslem world under Egyptian
hegemony demonstrated by
the continued shipment of
arms to the Algerian insurgents.
But the sinister ‘unity’ now most
obviously developing is Egypt’s
increasing dependence on
Soviet Russia.”
On the current Egyptian-
Israel situation, “New York
Times” adds that “the United
Nations Emergency Force is in
Egypt by Nasser’s consent, to
prevent trouble along a line
the Egyptians were unable to
hold during the fighting of
late October and early
November, 1956. President
Nasser accepts this situation,
as well he might.
“But though the Egyptian
Government will put up with
U.N. aid to the extent that this
suits its purposes it is not back-
ing down from the positions it
vainly tried to uphold by armed
force a year ago. Defeated in
the field, it clings to its
rhetorical victory.
“The U.N. Secretary-General,
Mr. Hammarskjold, will there-
fore be told that the Nasser
regime will not concede the
right of the Israelis to have
access to their own port of
Elath at the head of the Aqaba
Gulf, nor will any ship flying
the Israeli flag be permitted to
pass through the Suez Canal
until there has been a final
settlement of the whole
Palestine issue.
“This final settlement, as it is
contemplated in Cairo, seems
still to call for the return of
900,000 Arab refugees to
Israel —even though perhaps
one-third of them never saw
Israel. It probably calls also
for the retirement of Israel to
her 1947 frontiers. It comes
near meaning the abolition of
the State of Israel altogether.
These are the demands which a
beaten Government may be
about to place before the chief
executive of the international
agency which saved that
Government from utter ruin.”
Lester Pearson (former
Canadian Secretary of State for
External Affairs): “Today less
than ever can we defend our-
selves by force, for there is
no effective defence against
the all-destroying effect of
nuclear missile weapons.
Indeed, their very power has
made their use intolerable, even
unthinkable, because of the
annihilating retaliation in kind
that such use would invoke.
So peace remains, balanced
uneasily on terror. It is folly
to do nothing, to sit back and
answer missile with missile,
insult with insult, ban with
ban. At the moment, however,
I am conscious of the unhappy
fact that people are more apt
to be united for war than for
peace, in fear rather than in
hope.”


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week.
THIS
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
of high-priced imported
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
machines a» only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
"National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans,
Music, etc.
Built entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
distributing. 4finis' —
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W. C. Penfold A Co. Pty. Ltd.
I Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
t . Vardon Price Ltd.
«. Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Culture—or Cancer?
For the past couple of years
the main Sydney dailies have
been alternately coaxing and
scolding Premier Cahill to build
an opera-house in Sydney. The
State could well afford it, they
said, and if the Government
gave a lead, the people would
support it —we simply must
have culture, and an opera-
house was the best means of
providing it.
The Cahill Government
decided to back the venture
with a donation of £lOO,OOO,
and the papers opened their
columns to record the sub-
scriptions which would flow in.
Disappointed at the public
response, the papers agreed
with Premier Cahill that we
must get the money somehow,
and gave their benevolent
support to a monster Govern-
ment-run lottery with a first-
prize of £lOO,OOO. In spite of
the opera-house, the lottery
looks like being a success, and
“S. M. Herald” now feels free
to scold the Government for
having failed to find the money
tor other schemes it has backed
in recent yfiars.
About mid-December last
the “Herald” had a sub-leader
on the failure of the N.S.W.
Government to establish the
cancer clinic which it promised
two world-famous radiologists
it would back to the tune of
£700,000. That was three years
ago. The two experts returned
to Sydney recently to see how
far the promise had been ful-
filled and, in the words of
“5.M.H.,” they “found not even
the foundation of the central
institute.” The whole project
has “virtually foundered in the
administrative inertia of the
State Cancer Council and in the
chronic financial embarrass-
ment of the State Government.”
What a pity the newspapers
“From this line-up you will identify the one who stole your plastic sailing-boat."
which have been backing the
opera-house didn’t remember
the cancer clinic as an under-
taking the Government had
promised to establish, and
insist that an appeal should be
made to the public for money
to do it. Two of the big teach-
ing hospitals in Sydney have
now undertaken to instal their
own cobalt-beam units for the
treatment of cancer, obviously
because they despaired of the
Government ever doing any-
thing to carry out the larger
scheme. Although money for
these units has been coming in
slowly, Premier Cahill hasn’t
offered to come to their aid
with a monster lottery.
There must be many people,
even in the Government’s own
lanks, who are dismayed by
this lack of realism. Premier
Cahill has lost his sense of pro-
portion and, if his Government
is so embarrassed that it can’t
keep its promise to establish a
cancer clinic, it should in no
circumstances attempt to build
an opera-house.— M. F. Dixon
(N.S.W.).
_ ”
Cooktown
I haven’t much sympathy for
those Sydney gardeners who
have to resort to watering-cans
and all sorts of subterfuges to
water their gardens (B.
11/12/’57).
In Cooktown (Q.) those of us
who are able to have any
garden at ail are obliged to
use watering-cans all year
round, simply because we have
no council-supplied water laid-
on. The only advantage in this
is that we have no council-
imposed water - restrictions
either, but when our rain-water
tanks and wells run dry, we
have to pay £1 for 500 gals. of
water carted from the council
wells.
For as long as the oldest
resident can remember there
have been plans afoot to give
Cooktown a water-supply, but
the Cook Shire Council, like
so many others, always seems to
be unfinancial. Water is not the
only thing lacking in Cook-
town, but a garden is a
necessity, because on only one
day each week are we sure
of obtaining fresh vegetables
—when the launch arrives
from Cairns,
We hear so often from all
parts of Australia that, “If we
are to defend Australia we must
develop 'and populate the
North. Well, there is still no
R.A.A.F. or Army unit further
north than Townsville, and
when it looked as if an all-
weather road from Cairns to
Cooktown might be built at
long last, the new State Govern-
ment turned thumbs-down on
the project, because of “lack
of funds,”
That is probably true, but the
Commonwealth Government
was also approached and,
as far as I know, has given
either no answer or else an
unfavorable one. This, despite
the fact that such a road would
open up thousands of acres of


r ich farm- and timber-country.
In fact, it was stated by one
authority that the timber
cleared while building the road
would go a long way towards
paying for its cost. The pro-
posed road would also increase
the flow of tourist traffic to
Cooktown, and perhaps provide
us with cheaper transport in
overland passenger- and freight-
services.
It would also encourage
farmers to settle in the district.
The prohibitive cost of trans-
porting produce to distant
markets frightens them away
now. The road could be
extended later to Coen, Iron
Range and Weipa, all more
isolated than Cooktown.
At present, we battle with
high costs, lack of basic com-
modities and ordinary facilities,
and high fares on plane or
launch,' which are our only
means of transport. We live,
as one southern visitor recently
told me, under antiquated, if
not primitive, conditions. But
we very rarely complain about
having to do so, because we
are always hoping that, some
day, a mif3culously enlightened
Government will develop the
Peninsula to its full poten-
tialities. . '
So far, all our hopes have
died in infancy. That is why
the sad plight of Sydney
gardeners leaves us cold.—
Roni (Q.).
Railways
I’ve just read a technical
article which rather tickled my
fancy. It concerned the French
railways and dealt with one
of their spreading electrified
areas where they propose to run
up to a maximum of 100
m.p.h. in regular service.
They needed to find out how
the current-collecting gear of
their locos would perform at
that speed, but they had to do
the trials without current being
on the line. So they whistled
up a few of their local steam-
locos and used them with the
eiectric-loco. in front and a
couple of coaches behind the
steamer to steady it and help
in braking.
The section over which the
iun could be made was quite
short, so it was a case of push
up to the speed as fast as they
could, hold it there as long as
possible, and then reduce at
a reasonable rate before
reaching the end. The trials
were many and successful and,
of the batch of engines
involved, there does not appear
to havs been any casualties.
The point of the story?
Those coal-burners were 43
years old, the same age as the
average for N.S.W. which so
shocked the Ebasco people.—
Transporticus (Singapore).
Steele Rudd
Where did “Fairf” get that
stuff about Steele Rudd and
“yachting pars.” (B. 27/11/ ’57)?
Rudd was a rowing-man, not a
yachtsman, and according to
his own account, his pseudonym
was certainly not shortened
by a sub-editor but by himself.
The rowing notes in the
“Brisbane Chronicle” were
signed “Steele Rudd” because
he did not want his mates to
know the identity of the wise-
cracking critic who was also
a crew member. He was read-
ing Steele’s essays at the time
—hence “Steele.”
“Then the word ‘rudder’
occurred to me.... so I got
Steele Rudder. After looking
closely at the combination I
thought something about it
didn’t impress. So I scored out
the last syllable... .it looked
smart. And, when for the first
time I saw it in print, over
my rowing notes, ‘On The
Rivqf,’Tt looked and sounded
smarter.”
Rudd’s fugitive pieces in
Brisbane papers were rarely
paid for —probably his first
cheque came from Archibald in
1894 —so “Fairf’s” references
to penny-ha’penny-a-line stuff
is puzzling.— Elbow (Vic.).
W. M. Hughes
“Mark Heim” (B. 20/11/’57)
can restore the late W. M.
Hughes to his esteem. The
Glasshouse Mountains can be
seen from outside Tewantin
(Q.) on a clear day, though not
with dust and bushfires.
The spot from which I have
seen them is by the uphill rear
corner of a caravan-park where
the Quarry Road leaves the
Tewantin-Noosa Road about
four miles from Tewantin.
The ranges among which
“Mark Heim’s” home-town of
Nambour nestles are some
miles inland and do not block
the view at all. We see the
mountains faint and far away
across miles of open coastal
“Wallum” country. Many
local people have not seen them
nor even know they can be
seen. I had been living here
twenty years before I did,
possibly because the area, now
“desirable allotments,” was for
many years the local sanitary-
dump.
“Mark Heim” has assumed
that, because the Glasshouse
Mountains were not visible
from Nambour, which is so
much nearer, farther places
could not see them. Which,
of course, can be disproved by
using the eyes on the spot.—
Jade (Q.).
Water and Market-gardens
When I hear market-
gardeners complaining that
water-restrictions are ruining
their businesses, I recall those
old Chinese growers who sank
wells, and, with a bucket and
windlass, brought the water to
the surface. They watered
their vegetables from two big
watering-cans carried by means
of a bamboo-pole across the
shoulders. It was hard work
and they worked long hours,
but they did all right.
It is remarkable that
more present - day market-
gardeners don’t tap the water
that lies right under their
gardens in so many instances.
It would cost money, of course,
but, after all, a regular water-
supply is just as important as
fertiliser. — Eureka (N.S.W.).
Scientists
Scientists only appear to be
scarce in Australia, because
they are dispersed throughout
the community under all sorts
of deceptive titles, dazzling us
with science at each turn of our
everyday life.
Take gambling. There are
scientists who invent and im-
prove machines to ensure a fair
go for all in distribution of
dividends, photo-finishes and
the roll of the marbles, but they
are small-fry compared with
the master-minds who plan
bigger and better lures to
attract business, using the
science of deception to conceal
from patrons the fact that
repeated investments will ulti-
mately leave them without the
price of a ticket —unless their
bank is given a regular trans-
fusion from the gas-money,
pay-envelope or some other
reliable source.
Nothing could be more
scientific than the planning of
our taxation structure. Experts
design loads to be carried by
various sections with due
regard to unfavorable reactions
or strain beyond the elastic
limit. Loads are applied so that
failure of any section will not
affect the strength of the
structure as a whole. This in
turn calls for the employment
of experts by taxpayers to
ensure that loads are deflected
to the greatest possible extent
It is in political science,
"I hate this south-bound route during the migratory season !”


however, that we really excel.
This field includes a host of
organisers, secretaries and pub-
licity men, as well as politicians
themselves, all preparing data
for a gullible public. Just as
scientists have worked on
orthodox lines to split the atom,
these experts are concerned
with the problem of fooling all
the people all the time. They
are close to success.
The foregoing examples
could be multiplied many times,
and it is, certain that if all our
scientific brains had been con-
centrated on nuclear research,
sputnik would have been on
the end of a long queue. No
one, however, would wish our
scientists back to a life of
poverty just to achieve this
nebulous honor. —No Oscar
(N.S.W.).
Australia and the U.S.
L. W- Ferres (B. 8/l/’5B) is
hard to convince. In his first
letter he claimed that a man
with a wife and three children
on £l4 a week is as well off (or
as badly off) as a similar man
with $7O a week in the U.S.A.
It is simply not so. On
£l4 a week an Australian
man can keep a wife and
three children provided his
family lives very lean and he
owns his own house or pays
pre-war rent. The man in the
U.S.A. would still be able to
have a new car for half his
salary.
I have several friends and
relatives in the U.S.A. and
every one of them is young,
married, has children, and
owns a lot more than I ever
shall and works for wages just
aS I do. Their wives either
stay at home, or, if they go to
work, do so to buy something
they fancy. They can live this
way because they are paid
enough to feed themselves, to
run their car, to have their
children, and to become
prosperous. If that is not
Paradise, Mr. Ferres is hard to
please.
The one family in every five
that lives on incomes of $2OOO
or less must live in rural areas.
No doubt the Mexicans in
Texas and the Negroes in
Alabama do not do so well, but
the people I am talking about
live in the towns in a factory
civilisation. Agriculture gives
prosperity to a few and
misery to many, but the more
factories there are, the richer
everyone should get, provided
we are guided wisely.
For Australians to live as
well as Americans, our coal-
miners should produce 32-
million tons of coal a year and
we should have sufficient steel
plant to absorb this production
and produce about 7-million
tons of steel. In addition, our
electricity production should be
trebled. This will never happen
unless atomic power is used,
because Australia simply does
not possess the water resources
to generate electricity as
cheaply as in the United States,
where it is so cheap to the
consumer that it is included in
the rent.
There are many things to
criticise in America, but it is
difficult to avoid writing a
hymn of praise when on the
subject of the American
standard of living.—H. A. F.
(N.S.W.).
Australian Music
Three years ago I took some
songs I’d arranged to a firm of
publishers. The songs were
simple but serious, and I had
few hopes that they would be
considered. But they were
accepted and, eventually,
published—though not before
I was told that the firm was
bringing them out, not because
they were likely to sell, but
because they ought to see
the light of day.
The sequel was unexpected
and interesting. The songs sold
very well indeed, were set as
test-pieces for the foremost
Australian eisteddfods, the firm
got its money back over and
over again, and even I made a
bit out of them.
I’ve been luckier than most.
The average Australian would
be amazed to know how much
good-quality music put together
by his fellow-countrymen goes
begging from publisher to
publisher. Last week I attended
a recital of unpublished songj
by an almost unknown Sydney
composer. They, were brimful
of original melody ; the accom-
paniments were masterpieces o{
musical composition; their
over-all effect was charming—
yet they’d been turned down
by practically every music-
publisher in the country.
These songs had beep
damned at birth. They weren’t
popular numbers; they were
good ; they were wholesome. If
an Australian composer wants
to see his works on the music-
shop counters, let him make
sure they are mushy and corny
and, above all, cheap. Only
the meretricious is in the run-
ning. Music has to sell.
Occasionally a publisher,
reconciling himself to a loss,
will risk a small work, while
some unpublished pieces may
achieve a public performance.
The majority of compositions,
however excellent, go
unpublished and unperformed.
In some cases a few valiant
souls get together and pay for
a piece to be put on the market.
In Melbourne, for instance,
a small band of public-spirited
women have formed themselves
into a music-publishing com-
mittee and bring out, from time
to time, a major Australian
work of merit. The difficulties
they encounter and overcome
are tremendous, but the results
are highly satisfactory. Lately
I had the pleasure of examining
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 470
Across
I—Postpone1—Postpone a date set out from the shore, and turn up with
some swell to spoil another’s concentration. (3, 3)
4—Asian city is too small for a Jack and a Harry. (8)
10 — They rule them with irons. (9)
11 — Confess! (3, 2)
12 — Grief’s a terror, (anagram) (13)
14 —A pretentious nobody who swings the cat fish? (14)
18 — Bound to crash an autumn’s
third in Yorkshire. (6, 3,1, 4)
24—Orchestra with measles —but a
case for Holmes rather than
Watson. (3, 8,4)
27 — Sir Edmund, poet and critic, is
to leave a compass point. (5)
28 — Fanciful embellishments in writ-
ing a mongrel 51 snooker sticks.
(9)
30— This makes an old Italian tune
cars the wrong way. (8)
31— Pal’s disorderly mother is among
the things taken from a blood
donor. (6)
Down
1— Non-prose essay on a poet. (6)
2 To dry out the ruler of a State
consisting of a few cities. (7)
3 Enemy. (3)
5 A sea-girt land what runs down
the middle of the church? (5)
6 Pennies given to an Italian on a
Port Phillip beach resort. (7)
7 Male officer of low degree to
work where layers may be shut
up. (3-4)
8— They sleep about difficult
problems. (8)
9 Lies from the son of Nagge,
according to St. Luke. (4)
13 —Dandy opposite to piano com-
position? (3)
15 — German XI is not without spirit.
(3)
16 — Polite mode of address for a
man. (3) .
17— Ward in favor of the Maori
horse? (8)
19 — Who does not appear in the birth-
day suit cupboard for dishes,
etc. (7)
20— are offensive with these
kiddies. (7)
21 — Any unimportant belief or
practice intemperately urged. (3)
22 — Measures confederacies. (7)
23 — Where you could find many a
Russian poetry essay. (6)
25 Businesses associated with a
beverage. (5)
26 — Anouilh likened Joan of Arc to
this bit of fun. (4)
29 —This makes one pair of book-
ends crook. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 469


WHEN YOU VALUE
Old Photographs
why trust them to door to door
canvassers? Send them to a firm
of 20 years’ standing. We will
quote size, coloring, framing,
spotting, etc.
SEND your photos to us
PROGRESS PHOTOS,
Midway Arcade,
256 Collins St., Melbourne,
- Victoria.
OPES
of Every Type
and Size
Famous for many
years as Queensland's
premier manufacturers
of envelopes we pro-
duce the well known—
“JAXUL” PATENT
CLEAR - FACE WIN-
DOW Envelopes in
sizes 5f ins. x ins.,
6§ x 3f and 9 ins. x
4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED En-
velopes in all sizes,
No. 1 to No. 8.
Plain or Printed
COMMERCIAL En-
velopes in all standard
sizes and qualities,
plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application *
Jackson &
O’Sullivan ptym
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers <6 Printers
304-2100 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
one of their productions (a
by Victorian composer
Margaret Sutherland), and I’ve
never seen a clearer score.
Commendable as the work
of the Melbourne committee
undoubtedly is, it’s but a drop
in the ocean. Hundreds of good
Australian compositions are
likely to remain in manuscript,
unheard by our own folk and
undreamed of by those in
Europe and America who,
already inte nested in our litera-
ture and aft, haven’t even
begun to realise that we have
also a fair bunch of creative
musicians.
If an Australian writer puts
together a decent book he has
a fair chance of seeing it in
print —while he’s writing it the
Commonwealth Literary Fund
may even help to keep him
alive. Not so with the com-
poser. One can name hundreds
ol Australian books to every
one musical composition. Our
executant musicians are famed
throughout the world, but,
apart from “Corroboree,” the
operas of Arthur Benjamin
and one or two other works,
how many of our musical
creations are known abroad?
Nearly £lBO,OOO has been
raised for the Sydney Opera
House. Imagine what could
be done for Australian com-
positions if but a half that sum
could be devoted to their
publication. In the long run
it would pay better dividends
and put us on the musical map
in a way that the opera-house
never can. — Maitri (N.S.W.).
Universities
That article on Australian
universities (B. 4 /12 / ’57)
seemed to rejoice in the fact
that so many great men become
so without the aid of a uni-
versity education. But what of
all the others? What of
Woodrow Wilson or Roosevelt,
or even Dr. Evatt and Mr.
Menzies? What of all those
writers who, even if some did
not actually get their degrees,
Were still able to undergo the
intellectual broadening of the
mind which comes from uni-
versity education? Men like
Tennyson and Wordsworth,
C. Day Lewis and Shelley
spring immediately to the mind.
It is an interesting question to
ask how successful Shaks-
peare would have been without
the path-breaking of the
University Wits and of Chris-
topher Marlowe, M.A.?
The Bulletin article says
“Thraw it back , Donal—it dinna ’ look fit tae eat."
that Australian “universities
have made a very poor showing
in literature and the arts
compared with the cleanskins
of the substratum who are
regarded as uneducated because
unhooded and ungowned.” In
the past, when universities were
not a force in Australian society
and when it was the outback
that seemed the dominant
factor, then admittedly such
“uneducated” writers were the
main force in our literature.
Once urban life asserted
itself, however, so did the
influence of the universities, so
that people like J. Le Gay
Brereton, a university lecturer
and professor, were dominant
in the literary scene. This
applies as much today as 20
years ago. Australian verse in
general has come to depend
on a new generation of uni-
versity-nurtured poets. A. D.
Hope as well as James McAuley
exemplify this; even as does
Judith Wright, who spent a
period of her life at Sydney
University, and who was
referred to in a recent “Times
Literary Supplement” as one
“who has explored this experi-
ence [of being a woman] more
deeply than any previous poet
in English literature.”
That is no small praise,. and
seems to vindicate the claims of
the university-bred poets, as
does this quotation from the
same article:
To the charge that they [i.e., Hope,
McAuley, Wright, Stewart] have
nothing to say about the specific
experience of being Australian, they
would reply that they at least have
something to say.... about the
specific experience of being a man.
Surely such a poetry is as
good as that which is
“nationally known or immortal
in Australian literary annals.”
—J. C. M. (N.S.W.).
“The Man from Snowy
River”
I wouldn’t agree with the
suggestion (B. 27 /11 / ’57) that
the late Lachlan Cochran may
have been the source of
“Banjo’s”,, inspiration for “The
Man from Snowy River.”
Many years ago, I knew both
Lachlan and his brother Neil.
They lived on their father’s
cattle station in the wild
Yasuck Mountains, a long way
from the Snowy River. Fine
horsemen both, but to my
knowledge they were not
known to Paterson. I have,
however, a very good idea of
whom Paterson had in mind
when he wrote “The Man from
Snowy River.”
On Tubbut, a cattle-station
fronting the Snowy River, lived
a hard-riding “stripling,” a
George James Paterson John-
son—“ Joker,” for short. A
finer horseman could hardly be
found. There seemed to be
some connection by marriage
between the family and that of
“A. 8.,” hence the inclusion of
“Paterson” in “Joker’s” name.
Moreover, “Joker’s” father
was an “old man with hair as
white as snow,” himself a
noted rider, and I can well
imagine his order, “Boys, go at
them from the jump.”
Running brumbies on the
mountainside, I have ridden
with or behind the “strip-
ling,” and can vouch for his
reckless riding. For my money,
he was “The Man from Snowy
River.”—M. M. W. (N.S.W.).


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
MODERN DAIRYING
AS a number of contributors
have pointed out on these
pages, dairying is now, or could
be, a pretty streamlined busi-
ness. Milk-machines, milk-
recording, raised-floors, and
other aids to knowledge,
comfort and overall efficiency
have greatly changed the life
and outlook of the farmer who
has taken advantage of them.
But it cannot be said that the
average Australian dairy-
farmer has applied the know-
ledge available to the, extent
that he could —even in a
closely-settled district like the
County of Cumberland it is
possible to see many farms
where, apart from the intro-
duction of machine-milking
and electricity and heavy—and
often wasteful —supplementary-
feeding, little has changed since
a generation or so ago.
On the other hand, there are
farmers whose general level of
management is very high, and
the interest shown in lectures
given by Professor Boutflour,
the English dairying authority,
when he was out here a couple
Experiments have
shown that later
mating gives out*
standing increases in
lambing and wool
returns. South Aus-
tralian graziers who
mated crossbred ewes
to lamb after mid-
June recorded lamb-
ing more than ISO
per cent. To gain
fullest advantage of
these increases lambs
should not be sub-
jected to the dangers
resulting from the
use of the knife
when being marked
and tailed. Elastrator
Rubber Rings should
be used.
of years ago, indicated that the
numbers of those who were
curious about new techniques
—even though they might not
be always willing to - adopt
them —was greater than one
might think.
A book by another English
authority, R. Kenney, Principal
of the Dorset Farm Institute, is
interesting because it gives a
good general picture of dairy-
ing in the United Kingdom
(together with detailed informa-
tion, some of which is applic-
able lo Australian conditions,
some not), because it is as up-
to-date as anything in that
line one is likely to come across
in the next six months, and
because of the balanced picture
it gives. The title is Dairy
Husbandry, the publishers
Thomas Nelson and Sons.
Something of Kenney’s
approach and temper of mind
can be judged from the follow-
ing, on feeding:
“Management for milk-pro-
duction has, quite rightly,
received considerable attention
in recent years. In the past too
much emphasis was paid to
breeding; today there is a
school of thought which almost
ignores ‘breeding’ and gives
‘management’ full credit for
any success achieved. Sound
breeding and good management
go hand in hand in order to
achieve the best results.
“Many of the feeding-
standards laid down for dairy-
cows are based on research
carried out several years ago,
and although these standards
work reasonably well in
practice, it is foolish to follow
them rigidly, as some people
tend to do.
“Authorities vary widely in
their views on the feeding of
milking - stock, and both
students and even -practising
farmers must sometimes feel
very confused. They may hear
or read one week that system
A is the best method, and the
following week that system B
(which is entirely different) is
equally good. It is both un-
wise and dangerous to state
dogmatically that any parti-
cular system is the only satis-
factory one, for, apart from
identical twins, no two cows
are exactly the same in their
feeding habits ; circumstances
affecting the whole question of
feeding can also vary from
farm to farm.
“Some general rules can be
given, but every farmer should
work out for himself a system
of feeding which by trial and
error gives him the best returns.
This system may vary a great
deal between small and large
farms, and also on the ability
of the farm to grow high yields
of crops, including the most
important crop of all —grass.
Fluctuations in the cost of feed-
ing - stuffs may also mean
readjustments in the system.
“Any sound feeding-pro-
gramme for a herd must be
"Put him down—youll spoil him!"
based on a system of milk-
recording, for, unless the
farmer knows the yield of each
cow, feeding can only be hap-
hazard. There will always be a
tendency to overfeed rather
than underfeed if a stockman is
given an entirely free hand;
besides being wasteful, over-
feeding may depress yield.
Rationing, therefore, is one of
the first essentials for economic
milk-production.
“The best method of feeding
concentrates is to issue supplies
weekly. The daily ration for
each cow should be either
written down on a sheet, or
chalked-up on a board so that
the stockman can see the figure
at a glance. As with the feed-
ing of young stock, however,
a good stockman should never
be tied down to exact amounts.
Cows are individuals, and some
will respond to generous feed-
ing, whilst others can do just
as well on less food. A good
stockman, and the farmer, too,
studies the individual habits of
his cows. Thus one cow will
require 161 b. of concentrates to
produce four gallons of milk,
another will produce and main,
tain this level on only
By giving one cow more con-
centrates the value of the
increased yield will be greater
than the cost of the extra food;
with another cow higher feed
is a waste, of money.”
This reader liked the manner
in which Kenney sets out the
advantages and disadvantages
of various methods. For
instance, in the chapter on
housing—for climatic reasons,
obviously of more importance
in the U.K. than here —he has
summarised the advantages
and disadvantages of cow-
sheds, yard and parlor, and
movable bail in two columns,
under those headings.
When Professor Boutflour
was out here we heard a good
deal about “steaming - up”
heifers by feeding them con-
centrates before calving —the
practice has since been adopted
by some leading breeders—
and also about pre-milking.
Kenney recommends steaming-
up (one of the many tables
gives useful information on
amounts, time, and so on) as
“essential for the best results
in terms of milk”:
Experiments have shown that the
cost of any concentrates fed during
the steaming-up period is afflPh
repaid by the extra milk produced
in the subsequent lactation. TM
higher the potential yield of tW
cow, the greater the need for stea®"
ing-up to achieve this potential.
Trying to improve yield after calvin*
by extra concentrate-feeding is Q ulie
uneconomic.
But, it appears, there art
dangers in pre-milking:
Investigations at the
Institute for Research in Dairy l ” B


DINGO
DESTRUCTION
No. 14 “ONEIDA"
JUMP TRAP
7Sm.
QHUOj
jaws
m
2ilb.
Outstanding efficiency as Dingo
catcher, well established in sheep
lands of Queensland for over forty
years.
Further particulars from
R. J. MURPHY
Box 555, G.P.0., Townsville, Q.
Sole agent for Australia.
have given a much better picture
0 f the nature and function of the
antibodies in colostrum. It is now
known that they are present in the
non-fatty fraction, and are particu-
larly associated with the fraction
called the immune lacto-globulins.
pre-milking can have a harmful
effect on the future well-being of
calves, as the udder secretion after
calving may have lost its colostrum
characteristics.
One must always be aware
of differences, of course—for
instance, over half the dairy-
herds in England number 15
cows or less ; again, dairying
is the most important single
branch of British agriculture,
whereas here it is a very minor
one ; and, for climatic reasons,
grass must be a more important
factor here than in England.
But in an excellent chapter
on the background of dairying
in Great Britain, one can
detect certain parallels — in
public taste, growth of popula-
tion, marketing organisations
and technical services—which
suggest that dairying in Aus-
tralia will incline progressively
to the English and New
Zealand patterns.
J. F.
Giant Sensitive-plant
“Nedrium”: Common sensi-
tive-plant (Mimosa pudica ) is
pest enough in North Queens-
land, but its big brother, giant
sensitive-plant (Mimosa invisa),
is approaching the status of
sugarcane pest No. 1.
First officially recorded in
Australia 14 years ago (but
probably established here years
before that), the giant weed is
now well entrenched in the rich
cane-lands around Innisfail,
and is also known in the
Mackay and Ingham cane-
districts. Climbing and crawl-
ing up to 40ft. or more it
chokes, overgrows and
smothers cane-crops at any
stage of growth.
In the early stages it can be
spotted easily. Little brother
has four leaflets at the end of
leaf-stalks. Big brother can
have up tS 10 leaflets, in pairs,
spaced along the leaf-stalk.
Control isn’t easy—it’s like
getting at gorse on steep hill-
sides. Aerial spraying has been
tried, but without much
success. Hormone-spray 2-4D
is recommended, but continued
checks are necessary, particu-
larly in the wet season, so that
new clumps can be tackled
before they become so vast that
normal spray-equipment is use-
less.
Both earthmoving equipment
a nd imported centro-pasture
seed have been blamed for the
spread of the pest. Sand- and
gravel-beds in Innisfail are
reported to be infested with
seed which is moved about on
gravel - trucks. Centro - seed
from Malaya and Indonesia is
believed to be contaminated in
many cases.
Commonwealth and State
action has been taken against
the importation of contami-
nated seed, but the damage has
already been done. One of the
latest outbreaks, on two
properties running zebu-cross
cattle near Ingham, has been
traced to recent sowings of
centro.
One great trouble is that seeds
from the weed may remain
dormant for years and then
suddenly sprout in a wet season.
The one Cairns-district out-
break, near Thomatis Creek, is
being watched with this in
mind, although all surface
manifestations have been
destroyed.
Control of giant sensitive-
plant has been rather a com-
plicated affair in the past, with
shire-councils, cane-pest boards,
the Lands Department and
Bureau of Sugar Experiment
stations all concerned in some
way or other. However, a
Lands inspector (C. Mac-
Donald) has just been
appointed to co-ordinate the
attack in the Innisfail area. The
weed has been proclaimed a
cane-pest to allow cane-pest
and disease-boards to spend
funds on eradication-work.
Giant sensitive-plant is also a
pest of pasture-lands, but its
major threat is undoubtedly to
the cane industry. Tropical
Agriculture Director David
Atherton said three years ago
that it was “The worst thing
to hit the country since lantana
and prickly-pear were brought
out.” He added, however, that
it was not a serious menace' to
a competent farmer who
watched his own lands.
Councillor Drew, of the
Johnstone Shire, has said that
most infestations are on one-
man cane-farms where growers
cannot find money for weedi-
cides.
A native of Mexico and
Brazil, the weed thrives in hot,
moist climates. It feels quite at
home in Innisfail’s 140 in.
annual rainfall.
Many State Parliamentary
debates have been devoted to
it. Mourilyan’s Peter Byrne,
M.L.A., has pointed out how
cane-cutters refused to work
fields heavily infested with it.
Mulgrave’s Bob Watson, him-
self a canegrower, has
remarked: “It makes one cry to
see beautiful flats covered by
giant sensitive-plant.”
There is no doubt that the
North is now fully awake to
the menace, but the question is
being asked: “Is it too late?”
New Cattle
“Joe”: A report from the
U.K. quotes Lloyd Jasper,
president of the Canadian
Federation of Agriculture and
breeder of pedigree cattle, on
the merits of a new strain of
cattle being raised at Whit-
burgh Farm Home, Pathead,
Midlothian. The animal is a
cross between the Highland
Angus and Shorthorn:
“It is a fine beast with a
small head (you can’t eat the
head), no dangling brisket
(people never buy that) and a
hefty wide spread of rump
with very little fat (very good
for beefsteaks). If and when
the animal comes up in sales
I’m certain that Canadian
farmers will be ready buyers.
I’d like a few myself.”
"Yets."
“J.A.C.”: I was amused to
read “W.J.P.’s” and “Cocky’s”
replies to “Alma” on prospects
for vets., and note that “W.J.P.”
was careful not to state in
actual figures what he con-
siders are the “attractive
salaries” offered to assistants.
I would say that £lOOO to £l5OO
a year was the range —an ample
reward for a little extra home-
work and a few nights a week
at college, but laughable for a
graduate of a five-year, full-
time, university course.
I am a country vet., prac-
tising in Victoria. Compared
with an unskilled laborer I am
indeed comfortable, but com-
pared with a medico or a
dentist—whose length of train-
ing is comparable with mine—-
I am poor.
“Cocky” suggests that a
vet.’s family can be partly
nourished by surplus produce,
kindly donated by farmers. He
would be surprised at the diffi-
culties I have in collecting the
fees my clients owe me, let
alone any charitable extras.
Most large-animal practi-
tioners, and nearly all those
able to afford assistants, are
subsidised in some way by their
local butter - factories. The
form this takes is significant—
usually, collection of fees and
subsidisation of mileage
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(9/1/'58)
_____
The Peninsula, north coast, and Gulf country of Queens-
land should get heavy rains during February, but only light
to moderate, patchy rains are indicated for the balance of
the State. Heavy rain should continue on the north coast
and Peninsula during March, with the likelihood of flooding.
Rainfall will probably be poor over most of N.S.W.
during February, apart from some moderate, patchy rains on
the coast * Moderate rain is indicated in March on the coast,
northern and central tablelands, and in part of the central
| i
west; poor elsewhere.
Apart from moderate rain in part of the western
division, and light-to-moderate, patchy rain in the central
division, most of Victoria is likely to receive only poor
rainfall during February. These conditions will probably
continue through March and April, with general rain in May.
Probably mainly dry conditions in South Australia
during February and March. Moderate rain is indicated in
the lower north during April.
Poor rainfall only is indicated over most of Western
Australia during February, apart from moderate rains in
the North Kimberleys. Heavy rains should fall in the West
Kimberleys, De Grey, Fortescue and West Gascoyne areas
during March, with good rains on the south-west coast.
LENNOX WALKER.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE —ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1818.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman) F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. 'N. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
charges. Without this assistance
I don’t know how some vets,
could remain in practice ; how
long the butter-factories will
continue with this help is un-
certain.
Youngsters who aspire to-be
vets., and who look at what
appears to be a shortage of the
same, should realise that the
shortage could very well be
the result of the poor incomes
earned by vets, in the past,
They will find that although the
great majority of animal-owners
are animal-lovers who enthuse
"Bees!"
about the great value, monetary
or otherwise, of their animals,
the thought of paying in hard
cash for professional veterinary
services outrages them. They
don’t know or care how the
vet.’s family lives ; but they
are amazed at the rapacity of
one who demands money to
cure “the kid’s dog,” or to
calve “the best little milker in
the herd.”
Salaried vets, are not in a
much better position. Those
with superior scientific training
are paid fairly well, but finan-
dally and socially vets, will
always be second to the lay
staff which directs their pro-
fessional services.
A medico, in the second year
after graduation, would not be
surprised to get £2OOO a year,
plus a free house or board and
other amenities, but most vets,
never attain this level of
remuneration during the whole
of their professional lives.
I know there are some
affluent vets., but these are
exceptions, as are the medicos
and politicians who are not
comparatively rich men. A vet.
who has a good bedside
manner, and doesn’t mind wait-
ing for success, will make more
money than the other kind, but
he will still be handicapped by
the fact that, in our economy
and culture, his particular skill
in healing animals has little
monetary value,
....
“Alma”: All right, all you
champions of vets., but if you
haven’t already wrapped your
lunch with them, - or set your
rabbit-traps with them, go
back and read both my article
(B. 16/11/’57) and the one that
touched it off (B. 18/9/’57).
What I was trying to impress
was the absurdity of com-
parison between vets, in the
more closely populate.d
countries, and here. While
you’re at it, work out, as a
further matter of interest, on
an equal monetary basis, the
cost of an average dairy-cow
in, say,. Denmark, and at, for
instance, Lism o r e. The
difference underlines the point
I have been trying to make.
Russian-comfrey
“Van”: Growing Russian-
comfrey is quite a business. In
the middle of a dry time, lured
by advertisements in the press,
I decided to invest in 50 pieces
and provide tons of greenfeed
for the pigs and poultry.
I haven’t had an easy day
since. I dug an irrigation-trench,
planted the comfrey-cuttings
at 4ft. centres along it, and
waited to see the magic results.
Very little happened; a few
tentative shoots appeared and
just held their own against the
westerly blasts.
After some weeks 24 shoots
were battling above ground,
and at that stage work had
virtually stopped on the farm.
I developed a “comfrey-gazing”
habit which consisted of care-
fully walking along the line of
comfrey, searching for signs of
new leaves. A shoot from an
until-then dormant plant was
always hailed with great rejoic-
ing. About that time pumpkin-
beetles attacked in full force
and the leaves disappeared over-
night. A folodol-spray killed
the beetles, and the search was
on once more.
I couldn’t resist digging up
the pieces that hadn’t come up.
They were still alive, but
apparently had been planted too
deep. They trailed little white
shoots and you could see where
the%hoot had tried to reach the
sunlight. I planted them closer
to the surface. Then came a
welcome shower of rain, and
comfrey sprang from every-
where. In no time 46 pieces
were growing vigorously. I
snipped off the biggest leaves
with a razor-blade to force the
roots down quickly.
Today the 46 plants are
doing well. I still treat the four
blank spaces with respect and
gaze hopefully at them each
day. And now, after all my
efforts, I learn that the Depart-
ment of Agriculture is advising
farmers not to grow comfrey
until some means of eradica-
ting it is found. But after the
trouble I’ve had establishing the
comfrey, I would need to be
outlawed by the State before
I would try to destroy it.
Pine Fence-posts
“Billjim”: N.Z. experience
has shown that durable fence-
posts can be obtained from
radiata pine at a cost of 4s.
each.
Pine treated with preservative
lasts up to 25 years. Fifteen-
year-old trees are recom-
mended. After cutting, the
trees should be left uncovered
for two or three months, and
then stacked under shelter.
Weigh selected posts periodi-
cally ; when the weight is
stable for about six weeks, the
posts are ready for dipping.
Dip favored is creosote. This
job is facilitated by tying 60 or
70 of the posts together and
lowering them into a large vat
by using a tractor-hoist.
Best time for dipping is
March or April, when the rate
of absorption of the creosote
is at its optimum. Forty-eight
hours’ dipping is adequate. If
the ends of the posts are
trimmed on the slant they will
shed the weather when in the
fenceline.
Pre-natal Hormones
“F.”: Hormones have been
well in the agricultural picture
for some time —now, a report
from England says, they are
giving them to in-pig sows.
The idea behind the series
of experiments, going on at
Nottingham University School
of Agriculture, is that since
the vigor of piglets seems to
depend on size (runts don’t
do well), hormones, by stimu-
lating foetal growth, might
produce heavier, more
vigorous piglets.
Mortality in piglets, every-
where, is fairly high. Their
mothers lie on them and crush
them in the first days of life-
Unless fed artificially and


ROYAL JELLY
Direct from the bees. Fabulously
rich vitalising dietary supplement.
One month’s supply, in capsules,
£5/5/-, or mixed in 6 ounces or
honey, £5. Technical data 2/8*
Free Leaflet.
R. A. PEACOCK
Apiarist, 21 Carbine Street,
KERANG. VICTORIA.
m
m
m®
o
s
mm
An exciting range
.f SIX
attractive colours
for Bathroom and Kitchen Walls
Gay, colourful Wunderlich "Duradec" is
made in six modern decorative colours—
Pink, Grey, Green, Buff, Blue and Black—
flecked with white. "Duradec" is wash-
able, scrubbable, economical and easy to
fix available in waste-saving sheets,
6' x 3', 6' x 4', T x 3' and 7' x 4'.
Free: Write to Wunderlich Limited, Dept.
"D," Box 474, G.P.0., Sydney, for coloured
folder and sample.
62DDI
Decorated Wall Sheets
of Asbestos-Cement
Readily available from local distributors
given injections of glucose,
they die if deprived of their
mother’s milk, and that milk
isn’t altogether satisfactory.
Except in a small litter, or in
the case of an exceptional
sow, the milk doesn’t provide
enough energy to maintain
initial growth-rate, let alone
improve it, so some form of
supplementary - feeding is
necessary. And sow’s milk is
also deficient in iron-content,
which can’t be boosted by
giving more iron to the sow.
So, taken all round, anything
that might give piglets a
better start in life is of more
than ordinary interest.
At present the research at
Nottingham is following three
lines: to discover the best way
of administering hexoestrol,
and in what doses ; to see what
effect administering hormones
has on a gilt’s breeding-
capacity ; and to study the
effect of doses of hormone on
the growth of the foetus.
Sheep-dusting
Precautions
“Big Billy”: Most farmers
only use a sheep-duster a few
times a year. On these
occasions it’s as well to keep in
mind a few basic precautions.
Arrange the machine so that
the operator can stand upwind
from the race; wear a light
nose - and - mouth mask if
exposure to dust is unavoid-
able ; if possible, wear overalls
which can be washed ; wash
hands thoroughly after each
group is treated ; wash com-
pletely (including the hair if no
hat is worn) bn each working-
day or part thereof, at the
end of operations; wash
hands carefully before meals
and before smoking, and don’t
smoke while on the job.
If the work is to be done
indoors, extra care will be
necessary: the paramount rule
is to avoid the dust if
possible ; otherwise, remove all
traces of it as soon as this can
be done.
Contractors, exposed to dust
over longer periods, need to
take even greater precautions.
These include wearing full-
length overalls and headgear,
goggles as well as a face-mask',
daily washing of overalls, and
special care in daily bathing or
showering.
In some ways, dusting is less
risky than dipping: there is
less likelihood of splashing,
and, in addition, the concentra-
tion of toxic insecticides is much
lower in the dusts than in the
mixing-powders.
Winter Greens
“C.A.A.”: Now is the time
to prepare for those winter
greens which help to fill a gap
in the year’s vegetable supply.
Heavier soils are best,
because they retain moisture
well and are likely to be rich
in plant-foods. However, light
soils are good for early crops.
Rotation is important, especi-
ally where members of the
cabbage-family are grown, and
heavy dressings of organic
manure are desirable on all
soils.
Except where the soil is very
rich, this should be supple-
mented with a fertiliser at 2oz.
to soz. a square-yard. Addi-
tional side-dressings of sul-
phate-of-ammonia are also
advisable.
Annual dressings of lime at
2oz. to 4oz. a square-yard
should be made on most soils,
with more necessary in high-
rainfall districts.
Avoid the rotation of
cabbage or cauliflower with
potatoes, because of the possi-
bility of club-root and scab
developing. This is particularly
necessary as liming inhibits the
development of club-root but
favors the development of
scab.
Feeding Sheep
“Sundowner”: With so
much grain being fed to sheep
in the drier areas it is timely
to point out that if the animals
are fed for any length of time
on cereal, hay or grain rations
they should have fine crushed-
limestone added. For every
1001 b. of feed add 11b. to 21b. of
limestone, either mixed with
the grain as a powder, or fed as
a lick. A cheap lick can be
made up of a 50-50 mixture of
finely crushed limestone and
coarse salt.
Summer Fodders
“Alice”: Like everything
else, summer fodders such as
rape and kale must be
managed well to be of most use.
For instance, until the leaves of
rape have a purplish tinge the
plants will not fatten stock so
well, and the risk of scalding
is greater.
Experts advise grazing rape
in breaks which will last
the flock for about a week.
Sheep should be moved in time
to give the plants a good chance
of recovering for the next
grazing. Contrary to practice in
some districts, run-offs are not
recommended. It is better to
provide high-quality hay to
balance the rape.
Being relatively unpalatable,
kale should be grazed only
lightly before the sheep are
moved. Under this manage-
ment the crop gives a lot of
valuable feed.
Autumn Clip
“Strath”: Advocates of
autumn shearing point out the
advantages of having ewes
fleece-free at lambing—giving
the lamb better access to the
udder, and forcing ewes to take
shelter with their lambs, instead
of standing in the open during
a storm.
To these sound reasons P. E.
Geytenbeek, officer-in-charge of
Kybybolite (S.A.) Research
Centre, adds others, applying
particularly to older sheep. He
gives examples of work at
Straun, where aged April-
shorn ewes had a 114 per cent,
lambing during an extremely
wet winter. Under the same
conditions, full - mouthed
wethers cut more than 171 b. of
wool a head. Geytenbeek
doubts whether many of these
sheep would have survived the
inclement weather if they had
been carrying eight to 12
months’ wool.
It is claimed, too, that
autumn shearing causes less
spread of footrot than when the
flock has to be mustered for
shearing in the spring, and that
it doesn’t interfere with
seasonal work such as topping
pastures and conserving fodder.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
To welcome Britain’s Prime Minister,
the Rt. Hon. Harold Macmillan, and
Lady Dorothy Macmillan, the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs.
F. W. Thomas) have sent out invitations
to a reception at the Town Hall to be
held on the evening of Thursday,
February 6.
ft ft ☆
To obviate sartorial embarrass-
ment at the State Government’s recep-
tion to her Majesty, the Queen Mother,
to be held at the Exhibition Building on
February 27, those invited have the option
of wearing evening-, dinner- or day-dress.
ft ft ft
Dr. T. E. Lowe and his sister, Mrs.
John Wark, gave an afternoon-tea party
at the English-Speaking Union’s club-
rooms in South Yarra to celebrate the
golden-wedding of their parents, Sir
Charles and Lady Lowe. Also assisting
to receive the guests were Mrs. Lowe
and Dr. Wark, Jenny, Susan and Helen
Wark and Peter Lowe. The theme for
the decoration was cream and gold. On
the tables were gold calla-lilies and tree-
lily-of-the-valley tied with cream satin
bows; cream and gold gladioli added
their beauty to the charming picture.
Among the 60 guests were Sir John
Latham, Sir Owen and Lady Dixon, Sir
Harry and Lady Winneke, Judge and
Mrs. Norris, Mr. Justice and Mrs.
Hudson, Judge and Mrs. Read, Sir
Samuel and Lady Wadham, Mrs. R. W.
Chambers and Mrs. O. Addison.
ft ft ft
Beginning this year, General Motors-
Holden will sponsor an annual com-
petition for a full-length play, open to
Australians resident either here or over-
seas, with a first-prize of £3OO, plus a
bronze trophy. The prize-winning play
will be produced by the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust, and, if suitable for radio-
adaptation, will also be presented in the
G.M.-H. Hour. There will also be two
second-prizes of £5O each. Entries will
close on October 15. In announcing this,
the Trust’s executive-director, Mr. Hugh
Hunt, said that an independent board
of judges would be appointed to select
the winning play.
☆ ft ft
The lovely Toorak home of Mr. and
Mrs. George Laurens was the setting for
the dance which celebrated the coming-of-
age of Pamela Matenson, only daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. I. H. Matenson. A
number of guests were friends of Pam’s
schooldays, which were spent at Tintern.
Other guests were Pam’s fellow-nurses
from the Alfred Hospital (she goes on
to the Queen Victoria Hospital for mid-
wifery-training).
The guest-of-honor was attractive in a
ballerina frock of midnight-blue satin,
which had a skirt featuring groups of
quilting. Among the guests were Jeanette
Powell and Raoul Fawke (who will be
married at St. Andrew's, Brighton, on
April 5); Patricia Boal—she will marry
Lieut. Michael Currie on April 10 ; Elva
Smith, whose white embroidered-organza
frock had a high Empire-waist outlined
with a deep-mauve taffeta sash ; Gwen
Goodman, whose choice was a gold-
striped red organza frock ; Dinah Craw,
in a frock of white polished-cotton,
patterned in cyclamen-toned flowers;
Margaret Calder, who wore black
Chantilly-lace mounted on gold taffeta ;
and Elizabeth Smail, the skirt of whose
turquoise-blue nylon frock had an apron-
front ruffled in the same material.
Mrs. George Laurens, wife of a well-
known businessman, is one of this city’s
leading hostesses, and her lovely Toorak
home is often the setting for functions
organised to raise funds for charities, the
most recent being a card-afternoon in aid
of the White Ensign Club (which cares
for men of the R.A.N.). Mr. and Mrs.
Laurens have three children: Diana, who
is doing Law at the University; Fay, in
matriculation year at St. Catherine s; and
Peter, who is at Melbourne Grammar.
With the temperatures in the nineties,
women at the Moonee Valley races settled
for light cotton, linen and silk frocks,
many of which were in pastels softly pat-
terned in a floral design with coin-spotted
whites or bold stripes also popular. Lun-
cheon in the coolness of the committee-
wives’ room was most pleasant; three
smartly dressed women there were Mrs.
W. S. Cox (wife of the M.V.R.C. secre-
tary), Mrs. Frank Watts and Mrs.
Clarence White (wife of the U.S. Naval
Attache).
Noted among the racegoers: Mrs. E.
K. Smart, whose brown cotton frock was
coin-spotted in white ; Mrs. John Newton,
wearing a white silk frock patterned in
tiny violets and a draped powder-blue
chiffon hat; Mrs. V. M. Walsh (of
Wangaratta) in beige lace frock, matching
jacket and a wide-brimmed hat of beige
tulle ; Mrs. F. Scherger, who chose an
all-white ensemble with a dash of red
showing at the pocket in the skirt; Mrs.
G. L. Farnfield, whose navy frock and
jacket were patterned in a white star
design ; Carmen Clarke (Dunkeld), wear-
ing navy coin-spotted in white; Judy
Ogden in sapphire-blue silks coin-spotted
in white ; and Mrs. Les Sangster, whose
chiffon frock was patterned in a rose-
design in soft-cyclamen tonings.
CANBERRA
Last week the capital was host-city to
women graduates from all States for the
15th biennial conference of the Australian
Federation of University Women. The
130 delegates had a stimulating five days
of meetings, discussions and social
functions.
Lady Slim attended the first evening
session when federation president Dr.
Lorna Lloyd-Green, of Melbourne, gave
an address on “The Changing Social
Patterns and the Role of University
Women in Australia and Asia”—the
theme of the conference. Also at this
meeting was the conference guest-of-
honor Dr. Janet Robb, an American, who
represented the International Federation
of University Women.
Lady Slim entertained delegates to an
afternoon - reception at Government
House. Her Excellency and Dame Pattie
Menzies received guests introduced by
conference hostess Dr. L. Lloyd-Green.
Visitors admired the bowls of Peace
roses decorating the reception-room and
enjoyed the view from the terrace where
guests mingled during the afternoon.
Visiting State-presidents included Dr. N.
F. Millis, Victoria ; Mrs. P. N. Warren,
N.S.W.; Mrs. C. G. Riley, W.A.; Mrs.
J. Reynolds, Tasmania ; Mrs. J. F. Keays,
Queensland; Mrs. A. R. Smith, S.A.;
and Canberra president, Mrs. R. N.
Wardle. Also noted: Mrs. A. E.
Mackenzie of Melbourne; Miss Jean
Randell of W.A. ; and Mrs. W. A. Towns-
ley of Tasmania ; together with Canberra
guests Lady Brown, Lady Melville and
Mrs. C. A. Inman. Later in the day the
final dinner was held at Canberra Univer-
sity College, when guest-speaker was Dr.
Janet Robb, consultant to the United
Nations Social and Economic Council,
who spoke to graduates on her work.
The delegates were also entertained at
the National University by Sir Leslie and
Lady Melville, and at Mount Stromlo
Observatory by Professor and Mrs.
Bartok J. Bok.
ft * *
A reception at Government House will
be given by the Governor-General and


Lady Slim to entertain the 250 delegates
in Canberra this week for the ninth annual
Citizenship Convention which was offici-
ally opened at the Albert Hall by the
Prime Minister (Mr. Menzies).
SYDNEY
The summer season has Sydney in
thrall at the moment. Only the really
energetic have got solidly down to work
on the year’s tasks, and the activity round
town is very mild. There are summer
schools at the University, and of the
drama course’ the highlight was the
talk by Dame Sybil Thorndike, who
admitted that she was fascinated by the
advertisements on TV (“They are like a
drug”). Lunch-hour concerts in the parks
liven-up the city and give it an air (in
two senses). A Dr. Scharffenberg, after
surveying Australian drinking-habits, has
made the suggestion that “pineapple-
gardens” should be established instead
of beer-gardens. Some people would
prefer “as well as,” but the idea is
excellent.
v v v
Balletgoers had the unique opportunity
of seeing a prima-ballerina, Elaine
Fifield, dance the first act of “Giselle”
on Saturday night at the Empire*Theatre,
and a brilliant youngster, Jessica Folkerts,
dance the second act. Opinions were
divided on whether this was lucky or
unlucky (for the audience; it was
certainly unlucky for Miss Fifield, who
injured her foot in the first act).
Personally, this Letter would have liked
to see Elaine Fifield, who is the essence
of poetic, ethereal grace, in that very
romantic second act, but it was certainly
interesting to see the 16-year-old dancer
whom Mr. Borovansky has promoted to
the status of ballerina. Jessica Folkerts
was born in Munich and joined the
Borovansky Company at the beginning
of 1957. Despite her youth, she has had
many years of intensive study and experi-
ence with the Bavarian State Opera
House Ballet, and her performance as
Giselle was delightful.
* * *
The portrait of Princess Margaret by
Pietro Annigoni was one of the talking
topics of the week. Mostly the reaction
to it was “Where is our gay little piquant
princess?” It is reported that Princess
Margaret herself is delighted with the
portrait, which seems possible. People
who are small, lively and roguish often
want to be tall, mysterious and cynical.
The London critics’ comments were
amusing to read —so contradictory.
Osbert Lancaster said, “By painting her
three-quarter length... .Annigoni has
started on the wrong foot.” This would
be possible, of course, if the artist were
painting the princess upside-down.
☆ ☆ ☆
With the summer holidays running out,
boredom hovers over many youngsters at
this time of the year, so a fresh story-
book is often a good tonic. This is
apropos of Joan Phipson’s latest book,
It Happened One Summer, which one
can highly recommend for girls of the
nine-to-11 age-group. It is beautifully pro-
duced by Angus and Robertson, with plen-
tiful illustrations by Margaret Horder,
and tells of a little English girl’s summer
on an Australian sheep-station, how she
is given a pony and learns to ride, con-
cluding with her adventure with a bush-
fire. The happiness of an Australian bush
Christmas is particularly well described,
though Santa Claus plays no part in it.
Diana Sinclair, daughter of the late
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Sinclair, of Moon-
gulla, Collarenebri, recently announced
her engagement to Michael Bray, son of
Mr. and Mrs. Keith Bray, of Vaucluse.
Diana is wearing a beautiful diamond-
and-sapphire ring, and is making arrange-
ments for an Easter wedding. Photo by
Norton Trevaire.
It was well worth while hieing-over to
Mosman to see the pantomime “Black-
beard the Pirate,” which is the work of
local talent. Frank Allden wrote it in those
amusing pantomime-couplets and gave
it a slightly Australian flavor —though
not overmuch, as he still has the Dame
and the Principal Boy, the parrot that
must not be stolen and the lollies thrown
into the audience. (Not “Uh-lolly” as the
Dame promised, but showers of them.)
First-class performances are put in by
Robert Hatherley (Dame Seaweed),
Betty Parsons (Jack Seaweed), Betty
Cheal (she would go well as “dear little
Buttercup”), Keith Goddard (Captain
Blackboard), Edwin Pfeiffer (Governor
Cove), Barbara Robinson and Kay Howe
(his daughters). Jack London sang “The
Good Ship Yaka, Haka, Doolah” with
great villainous verve, and Terry O’Keefe
contributed a clever dance, “Rock
Around the Cookhouse.” With all the
polished performances, however, there
was nothing to excel in popularity the
babes’ ballet led by little Angela
Michaelis.
A newly published Australian book
with a rather different slant from the
usual is Coorabeen, by M. A. O’Hanlon
(Pellegrini). Set first in the southern
pastoral districts of Australia, it extols
the beauties and joys of country life, then
contrasts its wide, open freedom with the
restrictions and trials of the religious
life which the heroine chooses in pre-
ference to the secular life of love and
marriage. There is a mystery running
through the story, though it needs to be
more skilfully interwoven. Thoroughly
Catholic in its outlook, Coorabeen is
most successful when it tells of life in
the convent with its innocent gaiety, its
sacrifices and its deep spirituality.
☆ ☆ ☆
Knowing the Russian motto of “Any-
thing you can do I can do better,” it was
not surprising to read in the news that
a Russian professor had not only seen
an Abominable Snowman at close
quarters, but claimed to have observed
two Snowmen on different occasions for
several minutes. This ties-in with the
news, of course, that the Soviet leaders
are increasingly worried about the
amount of vodka, rum, etc., that the
Russians are imbibing.
☆ ☆ ☆
Dame Sybil Thorndike and Sir Lewis
Casson are to be guests-of-honor at a
luncheon at the Trocadero on February
7, the proceeds of which will go to the
Save the Children Fund. This fund is
the only voluntary organisation which
works amongst children throughout the
world ; it includes some aboriginal chil-
dren in Australia. It depends solely on
the support of people who are concerned
about the plight of children —all children
—everywhere. Tickets for this luncheon
are 12s. 6d. each and may be obtained
from Mrs. M. J. Hobbs (JJ 4651) or Mrs.
J. C. Mackay (XL 2495).
V V V
Fascinating comment on his “Flower
Lady” hairstyle by French stylist
Guillaume. The hair itself is spot-
lighted in color, to give it a luminous
glow, and of it Guillaume says: “The
Flower Lady is gay because she is
eternally young, she is vital because her
personality is enhanced, she is aglow
because her hair is alight.” This seems
a considerable advance on the old days
when we merely had our hair singed.
V v
The joke “Can you play the violin?”
—“I don’t know, I’ve never tried! ” doesn’t
apply to Ida Haendel, the Polish-born
violinist who Will fly to Australia next
month for an A.B.C. tour, because that is
the way Ida Haendel did start to play.
When she was three-and-a-half she heard
her mother singing and, because she had
watched her elder sister practising the
violin, she said “I can play that tune
you’re singing,” and without further ado
took up the violin and played it. Miss
Haendel (her name is pronounced Eeda
Hendel) is looking forward to seeing Aus-
tralia. “I love heat,” she says, “and I
am a keen sightseer. Perhaps I will bring
back a kangaroo as a souvenir.”


Hopes of Petroleum in 1958
By L. OWEN
•EXPLORATORY and drill-
ing programmes proposed
in the search for oil during 1958
have been published by the two
major groups, operating on the
Australian mainland and in
Papua respectively, as well as
by some of the minor organisa-
tions. In general, the forecasts
made by the more responsible
companies are modestly hope-
lul, but some of the minor con-
cerns —with little more than
unreasoned optimism to offer
their shareholders suggest
that a profitable year lies ahead,
in spite of their unbroken past
record of failures.
Exmouth Gulf
The current programme
includes “the thorough evalua-
tion of the Rough Range-Cape
Range area... .This will, of
course, be considerably
influenced by Learmonth No. 1
well.” In view of that obvious
fact, it is regrettable that the
adoption of slim-hole drilling
(which has not resulted in the
anticipated reduction in opera-
tional costs in this well) has
precluded the cutting and
recovery of sizeable cores from
which so much information
could be garnered.
The backroom boys (I use
Wapet’s own description)
will therefore be hard put to it
to produce workable inter-
pretations from the Learmonth
data, particularly as their
deliberations are being carried
out in Perth’s Adelaide Terrace
instead of in the field, where
the validity of the new evalua-
tions could be checked by the
characteristics of the micro-
and macro-structure observable
at outcrop.
It seems obvious, moreover,
that the local geophysical
“high” at Learmonth No. 1 site
—which, I assume, was a major
factor in the choice of the
location —was the reflection of
fossil topography rather than
of deep structure, just as
happened at Cape Range and at
Yanrey.
At Cape Range, it may be
recalled, some 400 rock-bits
were worn out, mainly in drill-
ing the lower part of the deep
test to the record depth of
15,170 ft. I draw attention to
this fact as the combination
of buried topographic “highs”
with thick columns of strata
showing remarkably constant
lithology and extreme hardness
has, I suggest, a very con-
siderable significance in the
elucidation of the Exmouth
Gulf structure.
The latest reported depth of
Learmonth No. 1 well is 6805 ft.
in grey limestone and siltstone
It should be approaching the
limit of the T 32 rig, even with
the most advanced slim-hole
technique. I trust that a failure
to strike oil in this well will not
mean the abandonment of
petroleum exploration within
the Carnarvon Basin. In my
opinion, drilling on Learmonth
No. 1 location cannot produce
conclusive results.
On Dirk Hartog Island,
which is included in the
Carnarvon Basin structure, the
pre-Cretaceous beds remain
virtually untested, and any
investigation of Barrow Island
—another intriguing locality —
appears to have been stopped.
The 1958 programme starts
with three of the big geological
hurdles surmounted in the
Carnarvon Basin: it is now
recognised that the Birdrong
sandstone can act as an oil-
reservoir only where an
exceptional combination of
geological factors occurs ; it is
now realised that “fossil”
(buried) topographic “highs”
often produce geophysical
anomalies which are easily
misinterpreted as structural
“highs” ; and it is now obvious
that structures at depth are
often not reflected in the
surface post-Cretaceous struc-
tures. It is to be hoped that full
advantage will be taken of
these facts and that this most
promising area will remain a
major plank in the search for
oil in Australia.
The Kimberleys
The Kimberley area first
attracted attention as a
potential oil-bearing region
immediately after the end of
World War I, and it was the
scene of drilling activities long
before the Carnarvon Basin.
The area has now returned to
favor, although several wells —■
two of them exceeding 10,000 ft.
in depth—have proved com-
mercially barren.
The reason for the return to
favor is that the Devonian
limestone underlying the area is
thought to have potentialities as
a reservoir-bed —or even as a
source-bed—for oil. It was not
reached in Grant Range Np. 1
W'ell (12,915 ft.) nor in Fraser
River No. 1 well (10,144 ft.), but
it was pierced at Roebuck Bay
(near Broome), in August,
1956, at an undisclosed depth
above 4000 ft. and at Dampier
Downs, in December, 1956, at
a depth, also undisclosed,
above 3000 ft. No oil was
reported in either of these wells.
In the Sisters’ Plateau bore, a
small quantity of what was
described as “live” oil was
reported at 8896 ft., but tests
failed to reveal anything of
value and the well was
abandoned in June, 1957.
It is considered, however, by
the company now operating in
the Kimberleys, that the oil
prospects of “a large area both
north and south of the Fitzroy
‘deeps' are very attractive,”
although it is admitted that
“surface indications of struc-
ture are poor, and the seismo-
graph will primarily have to be
used to locate drilling
prospects.”
In my opinion, any undue
optimism should be tempered
by the fact that outcrop
evidence of oil in the Devonian
is absent throughout the
region and that the results
from wells which have pene-
trated this system are
disappointing.
That opinion, however, does
not mean that a thorough test
of the fringes of the structure
described as the “Fitzroy Deep”
is not justified. All who have
the wellbeing of the Common-
wealth at heart will join in the
hope that success rewards the
hard work involved and that
the Samphire Marsh well,
shortly to be drilled, will strike
oil in worth-while quantities.
South Australia
The series of small shows of
obviously migrated petroleum,
struck in a number of shallow
wells in the Wilkatana area,
does not appear to offer any
promise of commercial reward.
Further north, the Cordillo
Downs structure has been
stated to have “striking
similarities” to the Sahara
region where oil has been pro-
duced. This opinion must be
weighed against the failure to
find worth-while oil in struc-
tures, similarly located, on
another fringe of the Great
Artesian Basin in central
Queensland. In both cases,
nearby artesian water-bores
have produced small quantities
of oil.
Victoria
Results to date offer little
prospect that commercial oil
will be struck in the land areas
under test. The location tech-
nique employed would appear
to be quite unsuited to the local
conditions.
New South Wales
As a large part of the State is
underlain by coal-measures, it
is inevitable that pockets of gas,
derived from these measures,
will be struck in many of the
bores. So far, however, wells
have given only non-persistent
small flows of gas of high
calorific value, or sporadic
measurable flows of a gas
possessing a calorific value not
high enough for profitable use.
Even under the most favorable
conditions (e.g., Balmain
Colliery), a regular flow in
sufficient quantities to cover
production costs could not be
maintained.
Except for a few isolated
areas, the prospects of striking
liquid petroleum are negligible.
Queensland
There is nothing to indicate
that the methods of oilwell
location in current use in this
State will produce worth-while
results.
Northern Territory
Results, so far, have been
disappointing, but insufficient
data are available to allow of
a definite valuation of oil pros-
pects. On published evidence,
geological conditions do not
appear to differ from those of
the neighboring States.
Papua
It is unfortunate that the
striking of a large reservoir of
high-pressure “wet” gas, in
Kuru No. 1 well in 1956, has
not been followed up by
further discoveries. This lack
of success can be attributed,


babble of voices and the sound
of their return. “One-hundred-
and-fifty-four seconds,” he
told her, feeling their fingers
join as she offered him a paper
cup.
“Was one of those sighted
sad sacks trying to wolf you?”
“Don’t be silly.”
“We call them our seeing-
eye dogs. They have to lead
us around the place for a
couple of weeks till we get used
to it. I don’t want one of them
fooling with my girl.”
The girl said, “Nobody’s
wolfing your girl. Nobody
tried.”
“Don’t give me that,” the
soldier said. “The prettiest girl
in the place! ” When she didn’t
answer, he said, “Come on out
and I’ll show you the rest of
it. I heard somebody say
there’s a moon.”
“Yes,” she said ; “we saw it
when we were coming out on
the bus.”
nrHEY walked slowly toward
the door. The soldier
dreaded the raised threshold
and the flight of narrow con-
crete steps beyond it. He had
fallen halfway down the steps
on the day of his arrival at the
hospital and it had taken until
tonight for him to find courage
enough to go down them un-
assisted.
To keep the girl from
noticing his fear of the steps,
he said, “Did you all come
out on the same bus?”
“Yes. We work in the same
building.”
The threshold was passed.
They were nearly halfway down
the steps.
“What did you talk about
coming out?” he asked.
“Nothing much.”
“About how it would feel to
dance with a bloke who was
blind?”
“Of course not.”
They had reached the bottom
step.
“You must have.”
“We didn’t!”
For the first time the soldier
laughed. “We’re practically
fighting, aren’t we? It’s like
we’ve been married for years.”
The girl said, “I ought to
say you started it. Then you’d
say, no, I started it. Then
we’d be ready to throw things.”
“You know what?” the
soldier said. “I feel good.
Right now, right this moment,
I feel good.”
The girl pressed his hand.
“So do I.”
“Is there still a moon?”
“Yes. Over there.” She
added quickly, “Toward the
hill, I mean.”
“What kind of a moon is
it?”
“It’s past full, but it’s big
and bright.”
“Does it light up the valley?”
“There’s a mist in the valley.
The moon lights up the mist
and makes it look like a lake.”
The soldier nodded. “There’s
a mist down there every morn-
ing. One of the sighted blokes
was saying it was on account
of the river. It’s a pretty big
river, isn’t it?”
“I suppose so. It looks big
to me.”
“Well, how wide is it?”
The girl said, “I never know
how big anything is in feet or
inches.”
The soldier said, “When you
come out to the dance next
week, you better be able to tell
me just how big that river is. I
want to know all about it,
where it starts and what towns
it flows through, and where it
ends. The lot.” Then he said,
“You are coming out to the
dance next week, aren’t you?”
“I hadn’t thought about it.”
“You’ve got to come.”
“You might not want me to
come by next week,” the girl
said.
They had reached the end of
the gravel path. Now they
turned and began to retrace
their steps. The air felt cold on
their faces. The soldier said,
“Don’t talk silly. Of course I
want you to come.”
The girl said, “But you don’t
know what I’m like, what I’m
really like. During the week
you’ll be talking with the other
soldiers, with the sighted ones,
and maybe you’ll change your
mind. Maybe you’ll want to
try dancing with somebody
else.”
Her voice sounded faint and
unsure, as if it were she who
was afraid, not he.
The soldier said, “Listen,
you’re the first girl I could talk
to since I been in this place.”
The words were almost too
simple for him to say, but he
had to say them. “You’re good
for me, damn it. I want you
to be here as much as you can.
I’ll tell the C.O. to make you
come.”
From the number of paces
they had walked, the soldier
guessed that they were nearly
back to the flight of steps
before the girl spoke.
“All right, then. You won’t
need to bother the C. 0.”
“Promise?”
“Cross my heart.”
She took his hand and set it
against her dress, tracing, with
one finger, a cross on the ridge
of his knuckles. “You see?”
“Yes,” the soldier said. “I
see.”
They walked toward the
door. The long flight of
concrete steps, the soldier
thought, then the raised
threshold and the level floor.
It would not be easy, but he
would show her the way.
largely, to difficult drilling con-
ditions. The formation in which
the gas is contained has been
proved to persist, as a
permeable stratum, over a
large area. The Sireru
test - well, located eight
miles to the north of Kuru,
contained water in the
formation correlated with the
Kuru gas horizon.
It is evident that the opera-
ting group believe the oil pros-
pects of the Kuru region to be
good. Puri No. 1 well is
currently drilling about 34 miles
east of Kuru and Barikewa
No. 1 about 40 miles west of
Kuru. Latest reported depths
are 2210 ft. and 8025 ft. respec-
tively.
Moderate to substantial flows
of gas have been reported in
the Barikewa well, but, as no
details as to the composition
have been published, an
estimate of their significance is
not possible.
Komewu No. 2, located some
60 miles west, and slightly
south, of Barikewa and two
miles from Komewu No. 1 site,
was spudded-in on November
30. Latest reported depth is
5590 ff. Very shortly, also, Kuru
No. 3 well should be drilling at
a location slightly more than
half-a-mile distant from Nos.
1 and 2 sites. All these wells
are located on a series of
related structures, indicating
that the operating company
thinks highly enough of the
area to confine its activities to
a narrow strip running almost
east-west.
At the other end of Papua,
some 180 miles south-east of
Kuru, another company is drill-
ing at Kaufana. Near by, at
Oroi, a test-well was drilled
some years ago by the group
now boring at Kuru, but it
struck only gas and was
abandoned after reaching base-
ment rocks. The reasons for
locating a test-well at Kaufana
are thus obscure, and prospects
cannot be described as inviting.
Latest reported depth at
Kaufana is 3380 ft.
Portuguese Timor
Aliambata No. 1 well,
currently drilling, is located
within an oil-seepage area,
almost on the south - east
coast of Portuguese Timor,
where previous non-
commercial drilling has been
done. As is so often the
case in wells sunk near surface
cil-seeps, the upper part of the
Well—in this instance, above
390 ft.—produced some oil, but
Porous and permeable beds —
at Aliambata, limestone—
merely absorbed the drilling-
fluid. Latest reported depth of
Aliambata 1 is 3833 ft.
General
Drilling operations in Aus-
tralia to date have produced no
commercial oil. This must be
ascribed to the use of
“classical” methods of oilwell-
location—which consist of
siting boreholes near the apices
of quaquaversal structures, of
which anticlines and domes are
typical examples.
Owing to the unique
geological conditions (including
geological history) encountered
on the Australian mainland,
these classical methods are
unsuitable, although they have
enjoyed a great measure of
success on “normal” fields, such
as are found in U.S.A.
As all the oil produced in
Australia, so far, has properties
indicating long-distance migra-
tion, the tracing of the direc-
tion of such migration is of
primary importance, and this
necessitates the use of a special
technique including chemical
analyses of samples of oil,
brine and, sometimes, strata.
Unfortunately, few geologists
have been trained in this tech-
nique, but, had it been adopted
in the past, it is probable that
the age-old riddle of Roma oil
would have been solved. In
the Carnarvon Basin, in South
Australia and in Victoria, the
employment of the technique
would, at least, provide invalu-
able information and would
avoid a great deal of abortive
drilling.
In Timor, many samples of
migrated oil have been collected
from several localities for
years past. Some analyses have
been published unfortunately
in a form quite unsuited for
tracing the direction of migra-
tion —and it is obvious than
any information obtainable
from such analyses was not
taken into account when
locating Aliambata 1.


regimented throughout their lives, com-
pelled to go to school till fifteen, then
to leave, then to start at the lowest
rung of the civil-service ladder and
work up through fourteen grades to
the equivalent of a bulletproof car
and dacha in the birch-forest; or start
as privates in the Army, which in a
short time became a centre of culture,
whose cadets translated Corneille and
Racine and founded the theatre and
the academic press. They seem to have
been less under the vigilance of the
Government than the national academy
of science, from which —familiar touch
—“in 1745 two German professors were
dismissed for asserting the Scandinavian
origin of the Varangians.”
It is in relating the stirrings of
Eastern Europe to the modern world
—without any obviously deliberate
effort to do so beyond the setting-down
of the facts —that these volumes are
peculiarly useful to the modern student
and their issue timely at a moment
when the systems and ways of life of
the world seem to be in process of
being melted-down by the fires for
which the first fuel was gathered two
centuries or more ago. Those times by
Victorian and post-Victorian British
students were mostly remembered,
perhaps, for the passage of the Bill of
Rights, which was somehow apt to
appear as the largest historical hill in
the border - country of the early
eighteenth" century with a clear road
leading from it through Blenheim to
the war of Jenkins’s Ear eventually to
imperial glory,.
The “New Cambridge Modern
History” differs from the older, versions
in that it achieves a global perspective
in which all the pieces of the historical
landscape fall into their proper places
and the heredity of modem change
becomes more easily perceptible.
It has one feature, however, which
might have been found unforgivable
by historians of the grim and disciplined
earlier producers of university mass-
histories: it is eminently readable by
the lay-reader who is not a serious
historian.
M. H. Ellis.
New Guinea Stories
The advantage of all “frontier”
stories such as those of Olaf Ruhen in
Land of Dahori (Macdonald) is they
take us out of the cities or off the
farm, and out of the niggling little
niceties of analysis in which literature
so often loses itself, into wild country
where wild things—and large, things,
adventurous things—happen.
The disadvantage is that they all,
essentially, tend to be the same story:
the witch-doctor kicks up, a tribe rises
in rebellion, a ritual murder is com-
mitted and the steadfast administrator,
or A.D.0., goes out to catch the
monkey.
In this collection of New Guinea
stories, some of which were first
printed in “The Bulletin” and others in
America, Ruhen certainly takes full
advantage of his advantages. He
evokes the wild country most convinc-
ingly and attractively and the tales are
full of curious and vigorous action:
the bizarre tragedy of “The Woman of
Labu,” who had her best friend roasted
because she thought she was a ghost;
the A.D.O. tempting the hostile tribes-
men in “The Sword of Laughter” to
come and trade and be civilised; the
execution of the native ambassadors in
“The Guardians of Mobali,” who are
found sitting beside the track near the
outlaw village, very comfortable,
except that they have lost their heads;
the comedy of the native who had the
young man fined for committing
adultery with his wife, then thoughtfully
paid the fine himself; the cargo-cult
story; the double twist in “Sergeant
Pangae, Detective,” where the natives
are being robbed not only by a tribes-
man masquerading as a spirit but also
by a white administrator; the slaying
of the erring Mrs. Wynfield with
imaginary poisoned arrows; the death
of Sommers by witchcraft or something
more probable but not less sinister
when he pursued the missionary’s wife
in “The Dark of the Moon.”
Ruhen has, of course, the additional
advantage that New Guinea stories
are always of topical as well as tropical
interest in Australia, and particularly
so at the moment; and he takes full
advantage of this advantage too by
organising his stories to make a com-
prehensive cover of New Guinea life
from mythological to modern times
and by introducing each section with
sociological and historical essays.
This is, to some extent, making a
disadvantage of an advantage, for the
sociological essays, though extremely
interesting in themselves—he has the
most lucid account of the mysterious
cargo-cult this reviewer has read—tend
at least momentarily to destroy the
validity of his'fiction. The “illusion
of reality” disappears. When you have
just read a fascinating realistic account
of the cargo-cult, a story on the same
subject, immediately following it,
seems “made-up” and unreal; at least
for a few pages until once again you
learn to accept fiction as reality.
But in the total effect of the book,
though the essays remain a mistake in
tactics, it is possible that the dis-
advantage becomes an advantage
again: it is, when all is said, more
New Guinea information; thoughtful,
vigorous and, like the stories, full of
tropical color.
Having coped so well with his
advantages, Ruhen does not so success-
fully cope with his disadvantage: the
essential sameness of the frontier
story.
There is a way of escaping, or at
least varying and enlivening the same-
ness: by intense or amusing charac-
terisation. It is not a question, in the
best frontier writing, merely of how
troublesome the natives can be but of
how their troublesomeness affects so
subtle and complex a character as
Almayer; or, on a lower scale, how
amusing may be the reactions of
Sanders, “Bones,” and the inimitable
Bosambo. You do not read “The Ebb
Tide” merely for the lure of romantic
islands and violent action but for the
exquisite subtlety and penetration of
Stevenson’s portraits. A vulgar white
woman in Somerset Maugham’s
Malaya would be deeper, quieter, more
balanced, more sympathetically under-
stood (before being dissected) than the
shrill virago in Ruhen’s “Brown
Jonathan.” A missionary, to be finally
acceptable, needs to be viewed through
the detached, sympathetic and
humorous eyes of Trollope.
Ruhen’s portraits of whites in New
Guinea need more thought. They are
firm enough up to a point, but they
are outline-drawings. But where he
does bring a deeper understanding to
his portraiture—more sympathy, more
humor, more vitality—is in his pictures
of the natives, like “The Woman
Molak,” who wouldn’t'wear the finery
which Fiddle Winter brought her back
from Sydney, or Parimu gravely trying
to protect Mrs. Wynfield from her
folly, or the efficient Corporal Nundi
who similarly protects his impetuous
officer, or the old scoundrel who comes
in at the end of the cargo-cult story.
These are not full-length studies—
which would be exceedingly difficult
to write—but they fill the jungles and
the mountains, the colonial history and
the adventures with many deft touches
of life.
Reviewed Briefly
The Saturday Book, Number 17
(Hutchinson). This nostalgic neo-
Victorian, velvet-beribboned box of
literary chocolates maintains its annual
tradition of lush printing and produc-
tion. The main essay this year, on
Dutch flower-painters, is mainly
remarkable for its lush color-plates;
there is also an illustrated lecture on
modern flower-arrangement; and side-
by-side considerations of the ruins of
Persepolis and of English castles.
Another sly juxtaposition is of modern
“abstract nude” photographs with
hilariously-funny “Pin-ups of tf> e
’Nineties.” There are photographic
series on hats through the ages and on
history as it is painted on old English
plates and pottery; there are essays on
true-life giants, dolls’ houses, a dandy
of the ’seventies, “Burnaby of the


The amazing true story of the “little war” in the Arctic
SLEDGE PATROL
David Howarth
This is the true story of one of the weirdest battlefields in World War 11. It
tells of seven men who in the spring of 1943 carried on a fight against German
landing parties for 400 miles up and down the coast of N.E. Greenland —a
beautiful and lonely country where Nature is the only true enemy.
Ready
Now
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
At all
Booksellers
BOOKS OF VERSE JUST PUBLISHED
THE SHIELD OF PLACE
by Mary Finnin —lyric poems and ballads. 16/- (post 7d.).
BAYONET AND GRASS
by T. Inglis Moore —poems contrasting the destruction of war and the enduring life
and purpose expressed in the earth and in man’s spirit. 17/6 (post 7d.).
THE DANCING BOUGH
by Nancy Cato—poems of the landscape and of the spirit. 16/- (post 5d.).
Available from all booksellers and . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
BITE ON THE BULLET or
UNDER THE SPREADING ATROPHY
by S. J. Perelman
author of CRAZY LIKE A FOX and other hilarities.
At all booksellers 20/-
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON s : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
ACT OAE
is the first book of verse by a young West Australian poet whose work
is well known in these pages as also in many other Australian, English
and American journals and magazines. Already hailed as a successful
novelist (The Bystander has recently been broadcast as a serial) this
volume will consolidate his position as one of the most interesting,
talented and potentially great writers Australia has given the world. We-
are proud to publish this book and to be associated with the name of
Randolph Stow
Price 15/6
MACDONALD
Available at All Booksellers
Agents in Australia: Ponsford, Newman & Benson.
Blues”; and there is an excellent essay
illustrated with plain and colored plates
on the work of the Manchester painter
l S. Lowry, of whom one has never
heard, and who really seems to be
saying something.
* * * «
High Arctic: Mike Banks (Dent). An
account of the British North Greenland
expedition of 1952-54 by the leader of
one of the snow-tractor teams that
travelled 800 miles across the ice. Also
a description of the crash of an R.A.F.
Hastings aircraft on the ice-cap and
the subsequent rescue of the crew by
Americans flying from Thule. Green-
land, it must be said, does not appear
to have a very warm climate.
* * * *
English and Scottish Ballads: Robert
Graves (Heinemann). Anybody
familiar with Quiller-Couch’s “Oxford
Book of Ballads” will hardly be satis-
fied with a much smaller selection
which excludes, amongst a hundred
others, the superb “Edward, Edward.”
However, the little book (of forty
ballads) includes many old favorites,
such as “Lord Randal” (here entitled
“Lord Rendal”), “Sir Patrick Spens,”
“The Wife of Usher’s Well,” etc., and
the book is also worth having for
Graves’s admirable introduction discus-
sing the witch-cult or Old Religion
which casts its shadow or its light into
so many of the ballads, and for some
out-of-the-way things such as “Loving
Mad Tom” and —when the ballad
had declined into the broadsheet—
“Wednesbury Cocking”:—
For they are so savage by nature,
And guilty of deeds the most
shocking;
lack Baker he whacked his own
father,
And thus ended Wednesbury
Cocking.
• * * ■
False Witness: Michael Underwood
(Hammond). The fiance of the boss’s
daughter is robbed of the firm’s payroll,
and then charged with faking the
theft. And then another girl is
®urdered. It’s all rather unusual,
including unusually flat.
* * * *
Suddenly a Widow: George Harmon
C°xe (Hammond). A rich invalid is
found dead by his young wife. He has
} e ft a letter saying how suspicious he
®as been of her and the handsome
doctor. She bums it. The doc,
No. 1 suspect when it is seen
‘hat the invalid has been poisoned,
although suspicion lights mainly upon
"* r - George Harmon Coxe in the matter
t the anaesthetising of the reader.


ONE
grease.. in place of many
..forall industrial lubrication needs!
I
*r
r;
a
>$S5
. :
i
i
y
n
a
a
Aj
■■
: is-
" 1 9
i I $2l
x*S
*
- . a
Isi. <* A <;, .'. ..>*
; :.;
m ■
■ •. •
: - ■
:■ '
*’■ - t , * *VN '
1 J
gfte
■ as
• ' :>:
«
m
HS
NSMIiI
9 8 I
BE..*
1
W' fe,
CS
Itx
-
One grease for everything from
electric motors to locomotives! One
grease that withstands astonishing
extremes of temperature, load, speed and
moisture without loss of efficiency; a
multi-purpose grease that eliminates the
need for a wide range of lubricants in
industry and mobile equipment.
oW« { ' : :? 2
mm
crviiMfikni
«»EASf
sf
0 Complete protection
resists heat, cold, water,
rust and corrosion.
0 Prevents misapplication
ot lubricants.
0 Pumps freely even at low
temperatures.
O Stays in bearings longer,
0 Simplifies maintenance
and store-keeping.
MULTI-
PURPOSE
Coloured RED for positive identification
