

The Bulletin
1958 Melbourne Show Preview
Wednesday, September 10,1958
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered In Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
"Yes, sir, it's seldom you see them so far out in the Bight."


1- J
BOOKS BOUGHT
We visit you in the City and Suburbs
Immediate Cash Payment
Valuations made for Probate
BW 7874
(After Hours JY 1131)
BERKELOUW
Ilf King Street, (Between P>tt and
Castlereag'h Streets), Sydney.
BOOH.HUNTER. Box 2671, 0.P.0.. Sydney
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find It for you—ttetiou,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
THE AUSTRALIAN ACCENT
What with an Oxford anthology of
Australian poetry, a Penguin anthology
ditto, the N.S.W. Education Depart-
ment’s apparent intention to teach Aus-
tralian children to speak more-or-less
as they have always spoken and would
speak anyhow out of school even if
untaught, my thoughts lately have
been given considerably to language,
speech, accent, poetic utterance and so
forth. I seem to have arrived at some-
thing, but whether it is fact, question
or arrant nonsense I am not sure.
It is that in listening to the speech
of most people I meet I can detect a
very definite Australian accent, and
not only an accent but a cadence; but
in reading Australian writing, whether
in prose or poetry, and whether it is
spelt properly or peppered with “wots”
and “orfs” and other abominations. I
am almost never conscious of altering
ray silent pronunciation to fit in with,
or to follow along with, the text.
Now, in the work of many poets and
novelists from, say, Wales or Ireland,
and even more so from America, this
is not so. Or not for me. It is not that
I find myself reading with an Irish
brogue or an American accent, but,
rather, that the pace of my attention
and comprehension is altered. If I do
more consciously try to analyse this,
either silently or by reading aloud, the
rhythm of the matter compels me to
fit in, if not with the accent, at least
very firmly with the cadence of the
writer concerned.
In an effort to carry this a little
further I have been rereading David
Campbell’s Speak with the Sun along
with Poems, by an American writer,
Thomas Hornsby Ferril, because to
some extent they are comparable in
subject-matter, and because “Harry
Pearce,” from Campbell’s book, is one
of the few poems I know that does make
itself heard with our accent. A personal
friend of Robert Frost’s, Ferril is a
Denver man whose work is admired
by Carl Sandburg. He is as much a
regional poet of Colorado as Campbell
is of the Monaro, but any attempt to
compare these two men on technical
grounds would be fairly flimsy, Ferril
at his best and most characteristic being
as expansive and informal as Campbell
is lyrical and concise.
The fault may be in me, but with
the exception of “Harry Pearce” I can-
not find another poem in Campbell’s
book, even ones which use a slangy or
idiomatic dialogue, which does have
this quality. Almost any of the others
could be read aloud either in clipped
or drawling voices, and many of them
would sound well if read by an English-
man.
Ferril is so much a poet of place
that it is difficult to find a reasonably
short, characteristic piece to quote that
does not include local reference or
place-names, and I want to select
something to demonstrate what I am
saying without the purely fortuitous
assistance of exotic nouns. Perhaps
“Mountains Themselves” would do: —
Mountains themselves are plausible.
You can look
At the ranges one behind the other
folding
Into alien blueness with apparent
meaning ;
But you’ll find you need a bird or
something that
An old man said when you start to
finish a mountain.
None of this, of course, is any criti-
cism of the poems as poetry or to say
that, because I think Ferril has
achieved this particular quality, I pre-
fer his poems to Campbell's.. I am
only questioning whether Ferril, in
common with most American poets, at
least from Whitman on, does not
possess an attribute which would be
of great advantage in our own litera-
ture. But whether this is the result of
art or of accident of inflection I do not
know. The whole question applies
equally in my opinion to fictional
prose. And, as I said earlier, it is not
only an American phenomenon.
Nancy Keesing.
Talking to Fish
The sea around us seems to contain
just about as many soear-fishermen,
skin-divers, underwater-photographers
and bathysphere-explorers (all of
whom write books) as it does fish, but
it continues to be full of surprises; and
perhaps the most remarkable scene in
Hans Hass’s We Come From the Sea
(Jarrolds) is his picture of himself
sitting for hours underwater in a cave
off the Barrier Reef, meditating on
the theory of evolution, which he does,
apparently without drawing breath, for
four pages.
There would be an even greater
surprise iii his attempts to talk to fish
—not necessarily about the theory of
evolution—had he succeeded; but, with-
out abandoning his beliefs, he doesn’t
seem to have had much luck with this.
Dr. Hass believes that fish “see” or
“talk” by means of vibrations. They
waggle their fins, and that means,
depending on the kind of waggle, that
they are amorous and would like a
wife, or that they are perishing and are
ready to be eaten, or that, receiving the
returning echoes more-or-less as bats
do, they are getting a radar-picture of
their surroundings.
The idea was to spear a fish and
then hold it on the spear while it
waggled, to see if the sharks would get
the right message and come and try
to eat it. But mostly when Dr. Hass
tried this experiment there were no
fish to be speared, or the weather got
too rough, or the sharks did come in
such numbers and with such rapidity
that nothing was very clear except that
they would like to eat the experimenter.
However, it seems a good idea.
As some compensation Dr. Hass did
hear, for the first time in history he
believes, the underwater bellow of a
sperm-whale, which sounds like “the
creaking of a huge barn-door turning
on rusty hinges.” It can make this
noise with its mouth either shut or
open, and Dr. Hass thinks it is the
means by which schools of whales keep
in touch.
There seem to be, as Dr. Hass
specifically points out, useful possi-
bilities for safeguarding the Australian
beaches in his theory of talking to
sharks. It is probably not much use,
he says, merely shouting underwater at
our sharks, a device which in other
places scares them away, because the
creatures off Bondi and Coogee would
be accustomed to the uproar of the
crowds; but if you could lure them to
you in shoals by broadcasting a record-
ing of the appropriate waggle, obvi-
ously “it would be very much easier
to catch them with nets or hooks or
by means of newly devised electrical
apparatus.”
Dr. Hass has, in fact, quite a bit to
say about Australia. He flew in here
from America and, landing at Mascot,
seems to have been a little piqued to
discover that all the press-publicity
was going to “a young lady bowing
right right and left. She was the Aus-
tralian Queen of Beauty just back from
the United States.” However, the
reporters soon discovered that Dr. Hass
was an expert on sharks, so that was
all right.
He went up to Cairns; saw the town
celebrating Christmas with great hearti-
ness; was invited to eat “pantaloon
(Continued on page 58)


7%e PZfu/b&i ffiove IN THE LORRY. FIELD
MORE OPERATORS SELECT INTERNATIONAL
TRUCKS EACH YEAR!”
■
J
<1
I put my foot on the bumper bar and gave my
friend the facts . . . “THE FIGURES PROVE”,
I told him, “there have been more International
Trucks sold to the lorry market in the last three
years than any other make and each year a
greater percentage of lorry operators choose
International.” I offered a cigarette and went
right on
“The official registration figures show that in
1955, 23.2% of all lorries sold in Australia were
International Trucks. In 1956, this increased to
23.9%, and last year sales rocketed up to 26.9%
of the total market a far greater proportion
than any competitor.
“This' overwhelming preference for International
Trucks is easy to understand when you look at
some of the features. Their new Tilt-Valve
Australian Black Diamond Engines have got all
the usable horsepower you would want. Their
all-truck-built construction means they' last
longer on even the toughest jobs. Comfo-vision
cabs guarantee maximum comfort, visibility and
convenience. They’ve got the biggest range of
models, too.
“I bought International”,. I concluded, “after I
studied those figures. But don’t you take my word
for it call at your nearest International
Harvester Office or I.H. Dealer. They have the
truck-performance facts in which you’ll really
be interested. They are truck specialists!”
INTERNATIONAL
TRUCKS
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
FMT-794/36


The Bulletin
Wednesday, Sept. 10, 1958
Vol. 79—No. 4100
The National Australian Newspap-er
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
Mew Zealand: Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
THE FATE OF FORMOSA
npHE knottiest problem which the
. West has to face is that of
Formosa and the so-called Chinese
National Government, now under fire
in more senses than one. It is always
in imminent danger of attack and con-
quest from the mainland and always
an incentive to the Asian Communists
to take some action which might plunge
the whole world into war.
Formosa island masks the three main
ports and railway-towns of Foochow,
Amoy and Swatow. It holds nearly
nine-million people, mostly of Chinese
derivation, but detached in language,
habits and thought and conditioned by
50 years of Japanese occupation and
development before 1945, when it was
returned to China after the war.
The Japanese gave it intensive
railway-communication with a line
running right round the island, throw-
ing-off numerous branches, relatively
modern cities and an outlook indus-
trially showing considerable variation
from the Chinese pattern established
under the war-lords.
Intrinsically, Formosa is of little
importance in the Chinese scene save
as a haven for the Chinese Nationalist
Government, which, recognised as one
of the five most powerful sections of
the United Nations structure, is every-
thing that could be conceived as in
conflict with the ideals of U.N. and
the principles of its charter.
As a “nation” its Government con-
sists entirely of an Army. Leading
elements of Chiang Kai-shek’s Govern-
ment have in the past been closely
associated with Communism, some
trained in Moscow, so that its existence
is not based on firm principle in
adhering to the West rather than to
the Communist bloc. It represents one
of the smallest and most helpless of
the sections of U.N., yet it is recognised
as a great Power, with the right of
military command in U.N., one month
in five in alternation with the U.S., U.K.,
France and Russia. It has, moreover,
the power of veto which belongs only
to the five great Powers and the right
to a permanent seat on the Security
Council.
Not only is the island of Formosa
itself held by the protection of the
Seventh Fleet of the United States
Navy as part of the anti-Communist
defence of Japan and the Far Eastern
Seas and Pacific Ocean, but the refugee
army of Chiang Kai-shek actually holds
islands within easy gunshot, or even
rifle-shot, of the Chinese coast. The
islands of Quemoy, off Amoy, and
Matsu, off Foochow, have been under
heavy fire for days.
It seems the height of absurdity that
the United States should make a casus
belli with Red China of these islands.
Every ship that comes in and out of
Amoy must run the gauntlet of attack
from Quemoy, which has no relation
whatever to the defence of the For-
mosan garrison or of the Pacific Ocean.
It is unthinkable that there should
be any implication of importance to the
world at large connected with its
defence, and the very best move regard-
ing it for world security would be with-
drawal, 'though under the U.N.-
recognised pretension that the existing
Chinese Government in Peking is a
rebel Administration which must pre-
sently be ousted by force of his
Armies, and that he himself heads the
legal Government of China, Chiang
Kai-shek would never concede this.
pORMOSA, under the existing regime,
obviously can have no permanency,
even by grace of American finance and
armament and partial U.N. backing.
The Formosan situation is one in which
military and political expediency on
the U.S. side are at odds with other
realities of the position. The Formosan
set-up is principally a creature of the
cold-war and what it is feared may
follow the cold-war. The island of
Formosa has military and political
value in the hands of the West, but
the “offshore islands” hardly come into
the same calculation. And even the
asset-value of Formosa has to be
weighed against the liability it imposes.
It seems time that facts were faced
in U.N. in particular about the Chinese
sititation. Whatever else the Mao
Government may be, it is a prickly fact.
Whatever effect the repudiation of the
fantasy that Chiang Kai-shek and Army
are one of the great Powers entitled to
priority in the Assembly and major
committees of U.N. might have, the
present set-up is based on a contradic-
tion of the whole theory on which the
U.N. Charter is constructed.
The time is ripe for revision of the
whole U.N. theory of great-Power
status. Presently other Powers will
begin to assert their rights, and the
equities which dictated the exclusion
of West Germany and Japan from
great-Power status and privileges are
rapidly disappearing and the time
coming when they will claim equality
among equals.
"Face"
[By “R.R.D.”]
XTOWHERE has “prestige” a greater
1 value than in the United States,
source of origin of the words “phony”
and “ballyhoo.” But the U.S. stopped
the British and French effort at Suez,
which almost certainly would have set-
back the Communists for many years;
and the Americans hatched the Eisen-
hower doctrine instead and so let the
Western pillar of Asian stability fall.
Now they appear to be playing v/ith
fire along the China coast. To admit
that, beguiled by Madame- Chiang, they
have possibly been backing the wrong
horse would be more than American
prestige could bear. All the same, there
can be little doubt that they risk doing
so. What hope has elderly Marshal
Chiang Kai-shek of leading his ageing
forces (which can count on no reserves
until the rising generation reaches
fighting-age) back into China?
Why, then, hang on to, these offshore
islands as a springboard for a dive
which may never be made? The
answer to those three questions is
“Face.”
Formosa is a different kettle of fish.
Chiang holds this island by right of
possession and with American backing.
To take Formosa would be a formid-
able operation for Mao’s forces, who
would first have to establish themselves
in the Pescadores, which lie between
Formosa and the Chinese mainland. To
lose Formosa would be a severe blow
to the anti-Communist bloc. Here, in a
defensible fortress, Chiang and his
American advisers are perfectly able
to make a stand, and could, if attacked,
dispose of large numbers of the enemy.
This might eventually go some way
towards one ultimate objective—to
change the enemy’s mind.
But, over the offshore islands, Mao
can be the only winner. Already he is
using his threat to them as a means of
asserting his right to a recognised voice
in the council of the world—after all,
he is ruler of one-quarter of the world’s
population. If he wanted to take the
islands he could do so, at a certain cost
—much less than the cost of taking
Formosa. -
So often have we surrendered some-
thing vital to Communism that one
hesitates to advocate giving one more
inch. Yet, with a force put into an
untenable position, what can a wise
commander do but fight his way out of
it as best he can and v/ith the greatest
possible damage to the enemy? He
should also remember the vital
principle of war and reinforce success
but never failure.


TYPHOON.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Cahill and the Police
The week’s developments in the debates
on charges against the N.S.W. police
are valuable as illustrating the depths to
to which Labor politics have fallen.
Admitting that the press treatment of
the accusations made by Mrs. Melville,
M.L.C., and others has been sensational,
there is nevertheless no ground for say-
ing that they are not serious charges
and that they do not affect the reputa-
tion of both the Ministers responsible
for justice in New South Wales and of
the police and magistracy.
Case after case has been cited by the
accusers with names and dates and
specific statements which can be, and
need to be, investigated. But everybody
concerned seems ready to avoid indepen-
dent inquiry. Mrs. Melville herself was 1
specific in three particular cases. In
respect of the death of a man following
mortal injuries received in some unex-
plained manner in a cell she used the
word “murder.” She mentioned a second
case in which a man died in Manly after
he had been in custody. ,
In relation to her own son she declared
that he had been threatened by a police-
man who tried to “get him on an
s.p.-betting charge,” and remarked to
him: “You will keep.” She said that
16 months afterwards he was- arrested
on a charge of drunken driving by the
same policeman, that a Government
doctor swore that he was not drunk,
leaving no charge to be answered, that
the policeman involved during the pro-
ceedings had broken her son’s nose in
three places and ground his fingernail.
Also, that he put his victim in such a
state that his relatives thought he was
going to die. She added:
It matters not whether my son was
drunk or not. No policeman has any right
to bash any man. The policeman bashed
my son and left him for dead. This police-
man is still in the force. This is a specific
charge. Any man who has bashed another
man and been proved guilty in court
should be dismissed from the force.
These are not wild charges made by
some criminal. They are made by one
of the best-known women members of
the Labor party in N.S.W., who was
selected by the Labor Government to
become the first woman member on the
Legislative Council. The Government
has hitherto apparently had perfect trust
in her, and, indeed, has been so proud
of her that it had her portrait in oils
hung in the vestibule of the Legislative
Council.
The replies of Mr. Cahill, Mr.
Downing and Mr. Maloney to the shock-
ing charges are not likely to increase
confidence in any one of them. From
the heat which they have shown one
might infer that they consider it far
more iniquitous to ask for an inquiry
into charges against the police than it
is for a policeman to indulge in violence
or corruption. No honest policeman
would support their view.
The attitude of both Mr. Cahill and
Mr. Downing was, in the face of charge
after charge about particular cases, that
there • was no case for the police to
answer and that persons who felt them-
selves aggrieved by a wrongful convic-
tion had only to appeal to the Sessions
Court and justice would be served. Mr.
Cahill, pessimistically, in effect, says that
it isn’t any use appointing a royal com-
mission because royal commissions have
so far not come to anything during his
sorry reign.
Perhaps the most illuminating fact
about the contemporary nature of the
party which has recently readmitted Mr.
Joe Arthur-xto membership is that Mrs.
Melville, a lifelong and staunch sup-
porter of Labor, does not even dare to
support her own demand for an inquiry
by voting' it; for if she did she would
be expelled from the party, denied
further association with lifelong political
friends, treated far worse, it would seem,
than any policeman who batters drunks
and regarded by Mr. Cahill and his
fellow-leaders as far lower than any
policeman, who exacts tribute from
motor-repair shops.
It all speaks volumes both for the
standards of the Government—if such
they can be called —and for the rotten
condition of the careerists who have
usurped the name of Labor.
Mr. Cahill continues to support the
principle of citizens being arrested by
policemen, prosecuted by police-sergeants
and tried before police-magistrates (now
called stipendiary magistrates). It is an
utterly wrong principle, resulting all too
often in a premium being placed on the
policeman’s evidence even where he is
proved to have been lying in some parts
of it.
It seems, too, that policemen are unduly
rewarded for getting convictions, fairly
or unfairly, rather than in maintaining
law and order by less officious methods.
A correspondent of the “Sydney
Morning Herald” put the position fairly.
He wrote that “there was a time when
the mere suggestion, let alone clear
evidence, that ordinary decent citizens had
been cruelly treated, browbeaten, intimi-
dated or abused by the police would
have set the Labor party aflame and
brought instant action from its leaders.”
Now the leadership ‘ seems to, he
thought, “have forgotten the prin-
ciples of freedom and justice and the
sanctity of individual rights from which
the party once drew its inspiration and
its strength.”
It is almost unthinkable that the
electors will return such a party to power
again or even elect any of its leaders.
And this applies as much to the Federal
leadership as that of the State of N.S.W.
Labor is not made-up of separate
Federal and State entities, and the men
whom a member of the Labor party
declares to have been maltreated are
citizens of the Commonwealth as well
as the State and entitled to be defended
by their Federal representatives in matters
of liberty and justice, if the State Govern-
ment will not protect them.
Out Again^—ln Again
The N.S.W. State Executive of the
A.L.P. last week solemnly issued
sentence of expulsion from the party
against two members and declared a third
one to be “an illegal member.”
The three persons had stood on unity-
tickets with the Communists at the
Waterside Workers’ Federation elections
in July, but their associations somehow
escaped the notice of the A.L.P. until
they were forced upon it by public out-
cry and the sudden realisation that unity-
tickets would be an issue at the Federal
elections.
The two purged members were N.
Isaksen and E. Ross, the former a
Moscow delegate, who, although he
denied being a Communist, was compli-
mented by a large body of Communists
calling a stop-work meeting and then
organising a “rowdy mob-demonstration
within and without the court-room” at
the Petrov Commission to protest against
his being called as a witness.
Mr. Ross has been so well known, and
his activities have had so much bias
towards the Left, that he should have
little difficulty in finding a political home
now that he has been sent into the
wilderness. The activities of both the
martyrs have been notorious for years,
yet the A.L.P. has only just now found
out about it.
The case of Mr. Young, president of
the Sydney Branch of the W.W.F.,
presents more mysterious features. He
has professed to be a member of the
A.L.P. t The executive apparently
believed him to be a member of the
A.L.P. Fte. has been held-up by the
union-leadership as -evidence that it is
not a Communist-led union, having a~
true-blue Labor 'man at its head.
On investigation by the A.L.P. execu-
tive it turns out that Mr. Young is not
a member of the A.L.P., though he was
at one time. It seems that he has been
expelled once already for Communist
associations, but last year the State Labor
Conference in June readmitted him on
his giving an undertaking to comply with
the decisions of the Federal Labor Con-
ference on- unity-tickets. Then the
Oatley Branch of the party admitted
him without getting an undertaking
from him, so that when he stood on the
unity-ticket but as an A.L.P. candidate
at the W.W.F. election everybody was
"WEIRD MOB" AUTHOR
First short-story by John O’Grady
(“Nino Culotta”) since he wrote
“They’re a Weird Mob’’ will be pub-
lished in next weed’s Bulletin. It is
called “Uncle Fred’s Christmasand
although it would have made a first-
class story for the Christmas issue, it
was considered that Bulletin readers
would prefer to have their Christmas
Culotta early.


deceived, because he was really still
expelled!
There is a ghostlike quality about these
expulsions that is not unfamiliar to those
who follow the history of Labor in
N.S.W. They partake of the same flavor
as that of the occasional expulsions' of
Jock Garden and a thousand more who
have been solemnly wiped-out for Com-
munisf associations and reappeared in
short order on the party-lists none the
worse for the experience.
Cahill's Angry Old Men
When it comes to getting irate, incensed
or enraged, the only thing Britain’s
Angry Young Men ha've on Cahill’s
Angry Old Men is their youth. Most of
Britain’s A.Y.M. can be classified as have-
nots, but that excuse can’t be advanced
for Cahill’s Cabineteers, whom 17 years
of office and power have imbued with
such a distorted faith in the Divine
Right of Labor Ministers that the
slightest criticism sets them lashing-out
with their tongues against anyone and
anything within barking-distance.
The charges made against some mem-
bers of the police-force by Mrs. Gertrude
Melville, M.L.C., were not the sort of
thing to please those responsible for the
good name and good conduct of the
force. The proper reaction of the Minis-
ters should have been to have the charges
investigated thoroughly—and indepen-
dently, not by the police themselves.
An investigation would have had one
of two results. It would either have found
the charges unsubstantiated or it would
have found that some of them were
sound. In the first case the reputation
of the police would have been vindi-
cated ; in the second the public’s faith
in the force as a whole would have been
strengthened by the Government’s willing-
ness to take action against men who were
unworthy to be in it.
The Government’s chosen course has
been to regard all the charges as politi-
cally inspired and to attack the Opposi-
tion and the press for having taken-up
Mrs. Melville’s demand for an inde-
pendent inquiry. Mrs. Melville is a
responsible member of the Legislative
Council. Does the Government consider
the Opposition should have disregarded
her charges? Or that newspapers should
have ignored them, or reported them
without comment?
The whole attitude of the Ministers
who have spoken—The Premier, Minister
for Justice Downing, Health Minister
Sheahan and Minister for Labor and
Industry Maloney—has been that the
charges are unfounded and vindictive ;
that as far as possible they have already
been investigated by the police and found
to be groundless. They have made it
plain that they are more concerned with
the effects an inquiry might have on their
electoral chances than on clearing the
reputation of the police.
There are grounds for believing that
some of the ammunition fired by Mrs.
Melville may have come from the anti-
Cahill faction in the A.L.P., but this does
not alter the fact that the charges and
allegations accumulated are too numerous
to be ignored merely because Angry Old
Men have become Frightened Old Men,
Giuseppe Tropeano
[From “Collins Street”]
Whatever may be the eventual outcome
of the Giuseppe Tropeano case in Mel-
bourne, the high-handed procedure of
the Immigration Department in dealing
with the 21-year-old Italian has incensed
Victorians, particularly those who have
been uneasily awaje in recent years of
the hair-raising growth of bureaucracy
numerically and its statelier-than-thou
attitudes.
No more melodramatic way of separat-
ing Tropeano from his parents and nine
brothers and sisters could have been
devised, except perhaps by Elia Kazan or
Alfred Hitchcock.
Officials went to his parents’ house on
the night of August 28, and, with plain-
clothes police, handcuffed him to an inter-
preter, told him he was to be deported
on September 1 and took him to Pent-
ridge Jail. The arrest was Under Cover
of Darkness; and it occurred seven
months after his alleged offence.
Tropeano was charged twice in Mel-
bourne. In the “first case, in 1955, when
he was 18, he defended his small brother
who had been attacked by 11 large Aus-
tralian youths. The informant policeman,
who formally laid the charge, gave
evidence for him, and the case was dis-
missed by a magistrate. A jury would
have dismissed the case if he; had defended
his brother from the louts with a cutlass.
In the case this year Tropeano went
to the assistance of his father, who had
had a dispute with an Australian about a
bag of beans and was getting a hiding ;
the other fellow had agreed it was natural
for the son to come to the aid of the
father, and although Tropeano was fined
£25 by the court on two charges of
assault arising from the incident —there
are hundreds Of similar cases in’ Mel-
bourne every year—the local police and
representative local citizens view Tropeano
pretty favorably.
The conviction in the cases brought
Tropeano within the scope of the depart-
mental power of deporting a migrant
guilty of a criminal punishable
by imprisonment for a year or longer ;
but, since he was not even sent to jail for
a day, the power seems to have been
stretched almost to its utmost. The
courts, which hear all the facts, are
fallible enough, but incomparably
superior to departments in assessing guilt
and its deserts.
The allegation by the Minister for
Immigration that there is a “suspicion”
that Tropeano is a member of the Mafia
secret society, although he has no “posi-
tive proof,” is outrageously unjust. The
allegation should be made only if the
Minister did have positive proof. Any
Italian could be smeared in this way.
The allegation is as un-British as are
statements in Australian courts by a
policeman any policeman that an
accused person is a “reputed thief.”
Hearsay is being increasingly accepted by
the courts.
The official explanation that the delay
in making the deportation effective was
due to the necessity to consider all the
facts in the case and find a berth in an
Italian ship is most unconvincing, and it
is quite probable there are undisclosed
facts in this case which would have been
made public if they had suited the depart-
ment.
Justice does not appear to have been
done.
—
Co-op. Flats
Some of the most pleasing thoroughfares
in Australia —expansive, grassed, tree-
lined or all three —exist ‘in Melbourne's
unfashionable inner northern suburbs,
and <l. felicitous, if belated, project to
replace the rows of generally dreary old
cottages which line a block in North
Melbourne has now been agreed to by
the Government, the Housing Commis-
sion and Victorian master-builders, the
trio hammering in harmony for once.
North Melbourne, which is adminis-
tered municipally by the City Council
and therefore is lined with splendid roads
and well-tended nature-strips in contrast
with comparable inner Labor-ridden
suburbs, already has some modern Com-
mission housing, but most of it is slummy
and contains a large Italian population
who have improved many of the old,
old houses but in others have dolled* them
up with stunning paint that is in key
with the Mediterranean scene but out of
character in North Melbourne.
In a block bounded by Abbotsford,
O’Shannassy, Curzon and Arden streets,
the Housing Commission has bought
somewhat less than three acres of small
houses for £BO,OOO and has begun clear-
ing the area of the old buildings and
accommodating the tenants. Tenders will
be called for the land, with the condition
that the flats are built, and a new build-
ing outfit, formed by the master-builders,
is expected to begin building immediately
100 flats.
The flats will sell around £4OOO on
deposits of £IOOO upwards, and the State
Government’s contribution will be legisla-
tion permitting the buyers to acquire them
on co-operative building - society or
housing-trust terms which at present do
not apply to own-your-own flats.
" The fact that co-operative terms have
not been available in the past for own-
your-own flats may be one of the reasons
the Government and Government utilities
are faced with the burdens of extending
Services to small houses in suburbs
stretching farther and farther away from
the city, since most buyers’ finances are
limited, their desires are to get away from
sub-standard housihg, and they cannot
afford prices in the favored suburbs.
The move may stem to some degree the
unending scramble for funds of the Gov-
ernment utilities to extend their services
to new suburbs —expensive undertakings
indeed, for which the whole metropolitan
area must pay.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
'T'hf. migrant wife found it difficult
to understand our ways ... “I
am lying in my bed resting in the
morning, the front-door is open, and the
doctor rushes in with his bag. He pulls
down the blankets, listens to my chest,
and puts the thermometer in my mouth.
I cannot speak. He rushes out. Why
does he do this? I am not sick ; it is
my next-door neighbor.”—“W.G.L.”
❖ *> ❖
“Alfred Armour”: Yike! It’s a bike!
Seen in Macquarie Street last week with
five front lights, five cat’s-eye rear-
reflectors, three rear-vision mirrors.
Front-wheel generator and dry-cell
batteries under seat —no overt evidence
of a jigger, thank goodness. Horned,
mud-flapped and chromed in the sporty
tradition ; of course an aerial, too. Why
does the modern push so much garbage
uphill?
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Forms”: With arms bared for the bite
of the needle, grim tax-officers tensely
queued for an anti-influenza injection.
The stenographer, rolling down the sleeve
of her blouse after her shot-in-the-arm,
came out and was transfixed by a male
voice: “Just like old times, seeing you
•get dressed.” Like bird-dogs quivering
on point, the officers at their desks
demonstrated their devotion to duty by
inspecting the tax-form coming under
notice; then, just like nornial people,
the taxers relaxed in laughter.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Q. Ree”: Unlike Australians, who
generally regard more than two children
as more than they can afford, Indians
regard children, especially sons, as an
investment, both in. working-capacity and
income-tax deductions. They have such
large families that here in Fiji one can
claim tax-deductions for only five
children, i
❖ ❖ <+
“Bicky”: Melbourne TV cut even a
drive-in down to four cars at one session.
One of the city’s largest dance-halls has
fallen away to thred eVenings a week.
Some picture-shows are featuring foreign
films only, the idea being to capture the
patronage of New Australians, who, no
doubt, would rather see first-class new
films from Europe than the Westerns and
revivals on TV.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Ceg”: The Occidental, at the corner
of Collins and Exhibition Streets, Mel-
bourne, named the Duke of York when
it was built 100 years ago, then the
United Services Club, and, when Miss
McCrae moved across from the Oriental,
rechristened the Occidental, is to be
replaced by (among other things) a
savings-bank. Melbourne’s pubs are fast
becoming fewer at about the same rate
as its banks are increasing. Soon the
alternative to a friendly drink will be
opening a savings-bank account with a
bob. The shouter will hand a new pass-
book to his mate, who, when returning
the compliment, will pass the books back
to the teller with the request that each
be credited with another shilling. There
are sufficient savings-banks now for a
bank-crawl where drinkers and drink
will be indistinguishably Scotch.
“Flo. N.”: Dimmest of a bunch of
trainees, Pansy passed the “final.” Senior
Med. lecturer, who never shares an
opinion, was cock-a-whoop. “Told you
that girl had something,” he chortled to
Sister Tutor ; “the only one to tackle
that actinomycosis question, and she got
top marks for it.” Toots, a doubting
Thomas, tackled Pansy: “Did you
read-up actinomycosis, nurse?” “Lumpy-
jaw’s the name,” Pansy corrected.
“Nursed lots o’ cows with it.” Though-
she didn’t specify, we guess the four-
legged kind. Pansy’s from the cowiest
part of the Cow Coast.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Maitri”: On the crowded North
Shore train leaving Wynyard (Sydney)
in the late Saturday afternoon, two
seats facing each other (with accommo-
dation for six) were occupied by a drunk.
But when standees tried to push in, the
drunk stopped them and pointed to five
prawns he’d placed in the five vacant
places. An indignant passenger was on
the point of sweeping the prawns aside
when the drunk, diving into his pocket,
triumphantly produced half-a-dozen
railway-tickets; one for himself and one
for each of the prawns.
“ When's interval, d ’ you know, dear?”
TO ONE’S COY WIFE
“Commonwealth Statistician, Mr. Carver, says
there were fewer divorces last year than in
any year since 1944. The most vulnerable age-
group was between 30 and 34.”
Dearest, the figures for divorce
Are following a downward course.
And we have long-since passed, my love,
The vulnerable age-group of
Thirty until thirty-four
By . . . Let's not argue on that score-f-
Such dalliance might -seeni no crime
Had we but world enough, and time ;
But, passing on Time’s winged cart,
Opportunities depart
And shrink our hopes to less and less
Under the Law of Averages;
And yonder all before us lie
Deserts of conjugality ....
The grave's a fine and private place,
But none, I think, clo there embrace;
From there, no husband can abscond
With .a depraved, rumbustious blonde,
Or wife run off with some nice lad
Or man she really should have had . . .
So let us hasten, little wife.
While Carver’s arithmetic knife
Can cut our bit of marriage-rope
Before it severs us from hope!
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM THE MARVELL.


“Farinmail”: One Australian film of
the 1920’s not mentioned by Les Blake
(B. 13/8/’5B) was “The Digger Earl,” the
adventures, after demobilisation, of the
Earl and a comrade of the Ist A.1.F.,
a rough-diamond Australian, played, I
think, by Arthur Tauchert. One scene
was vividly imprinted on my mind ; the
Australian and his sweetheart boating by
moonlight: “I could float like this tor
ever,” sighed the lass. “Not at two-bob
an hour,” answered her escort.
* *• ♦>
“Piketrailer”: Belatedly from darkest
Cyprus may I commend “R.R.D.’s” pen-
picture (B. 21/5/’5B) of France before
de Gaulle, especially his appreciation of
the steadfastness of the Army in Indo-
China? In June, 1953, 1 was in Indo-
China for a three weeks’ attachment to
the French Army. This coincided with
the Queen’s Coronation —of which two
impressive colored films were showing
to packed houses in Saigon—and France
undergoing one of its periods without
a Government. French officers shrugged
with proper Gallic cynicism and tried to
laugh it off: “It’s all the same to us
whether we have a Government or not. ’
In bamboo-hutted messes in Cochin-
China and Beau Geste stone forts in
Tonkin, the toast was to “Elizabeth.”
But behind it all was an obvious yearn-
ing for a similarly dedicated leader for
France. Like tne long nose of a certain
English adversary of the French, de
Gaulle’s proboscis may be worth several
divisions —and not only on the military
front.
♦Jf +*♦
“Durian”: The league of feather-
brained females and preoccupied pro-
fessors view with a certain cynicism the
enterprise of the backroom boys who
equip modern automobiles with air-
conditioning, automatic gears and electric
window-winders but fail to effect a simple
mechanical co-ordination that could pre-
clude the clutch being engaged while the
hand-brake is still on.
“Ceg”: In a letter just received, a
friend remarks that he feels perfectly at
home roaming round Europe, as the place
is positively “full of New Australians.”
I thought that was good, and was in-
terested in another of his observations,
to the effect that Australia had done a
very good job on inflation. A comparison
of prices here with those asked in Britain,
U.S.A., and many parts of the Continent,
showed that, although we might have
plenty to moan about, things could be
very much worse.
* ►I«
“Miss Mee”: Rummaging the old oak
chest, came across a programme of “The
Beggar’s Opera,” at Sydney Palace,
August, 1923, with Jack Cannot
in the lead. The ads. that revived
memories: Gilbey’s Dry Gin, P.
Dawson’s Whisky (the boys used
to make rude jokes of these herbs
in combination), Stewart Dawson’s
diamonds, Lever Bros. “Indasia” face-
powder. Ah, that face-powder—it
revolutionised the beauty-aids of my
generation. Ground-rice powder went
out of favor with us lasses of Brown’s
Creek when “Indasia” with its choice of
three exciting, glamorous shades—pink,
cream and natural---came out west in the
Syrian hawker’s pack. Dad went to his
“ Darling , I can't go to Mrs. Diprotodori s barbecue! I haven't
a thing to wear."
rest firmly convinced that only brazen
hussies used powder and rouge.
♦> * .»♦
“C.A.A.”: In the Mallee town of
Hopetoun a 300-year-old law has been
invoked to stop work on the Sabbath on
the Community Hotel—Victoria’s first.
A deputation of townsfolk caused the
council to seek advice from the Muni-
cipal Association. Now the contractor,
an Adelaide man, who was anxious to
speed-up the job, wonders if he'll be
home by Christmas, after all.
❖ ❖
“E”: “Well, I was only trying to,
help you make money without you having
to work for it,” was her way of explain-
ing away the three new frocks she’d
bought that day: a Melbourne frock-
shop was giving away a Tattersall’s ticket
with each frock purchased.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Emjai”: Sixty-odd years ago one of
the highlights for us country kids upon
our rare trips to Melbourne was a visit
to the waxworks in Bourke Street. Of
a later visit to the waxworks, about 47
years ago, I remember not the horrors,
but the Cornish Pixie, a live exhibit.
Billed as from a remote Central American
tribe and cast ashore from a wreck off
the coast of Penzance, this pink-and-
white complexioned little man was garbed
in morning-suit, black boots and bell-
topper, and strolled amongst the patrons
bowing and shaking hands, always in
the grasp of the showman. The S.P.C.A.
prosecuted, and proved that he was a
monkey, shaved and enamelled. Another
Bourke Street show which brought
prosecution a little later was Danny the
Dancing Duck. Danny danced all right:
his platform was a hot plate.
❖ ❖ ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: A small point, perhaps,
but I notice, from a photograph in my
Sunday-morning journal, that Paris is
courteous even to the inscriptions on its
street receptacles. In Sydney, for
example, we have the curt command:
“Be Tidy” or “Keep Your City Clean.”
In Paris it’s “Papiers S.V.P.”
♦♦♦
“Bo”: One of Hollywood’s most
cherished traditions, and one which no
director would dare jettison, is that
whenever the hero happens to be a
married man (and aren’t all married men
heroes?) and his wife coyly informs him
that she has just been to the doctor and
he has confirmed that she will become
a mother, that he should reel back with
the shock and turn several shades whiter,
his immediate reaction on recovering
being to set the little woman, despite
all her reassurances that she is feeling
quite all right, on a couch, rush and get
her a glass of water, and insist that she


sit down and rest. Perhaps it is that
American husbands, being traditionally
uxorious, do act like that. Most Aus-
tralian husbands, who look upon wife-
coddling as a major crime against their
masculinity, can be expected, when in-
formed by their spouses that another one
is on the way, to express their intense
paternal emotion with a drawled: “Well,
whadda you know!” or simply “Struth!”
or “Not again!” before resuming the
study of next Saturday’s form or Li’l
Abner. I knew one casual cove whose
laconic response to me tidings was:
Yair. Who s bin telling you?
“Fasdean”: The train seemed packed,
so I spoke to the porter and hopefully
“Wanna join me school ?”
waggled a tip. His junior caught-on:
“Sure to be seats in that teacher-bloke’s
carriage.” There were, and I knew why
before the train hit Parramatta. Other
workers seem happy to leave their jobs
in offices and shops ; only teachers ear-
bash their victims. It might ease peak-
hour overorowding if McCusker planted
a few teachers on the trains.
❖ ❖ *>
“8.M.”: Elyne Mitchell’s appreciation
of Ethel Anderson (B. 27/8/’5B) re-
minded me that Ethel Anderson con-
fessed to owing much in her formative
years to her teacher, Edith Badham, first
principal of Sydney Church of England
Grammar School for Girls. Ethel
Anderson was marked for distinction as
a schoolgirl by Miss Badham and in
due course became one of the many
distinguished Australian women—among
them Olive Kelso —of whom Miss
Badham was justly proud. A great
classical scholar, like her father, Professor
Badham, Miss Badham frequently selected
appropriate classical names for her
favorite pupils. “I never liked mine,’*
Ethel Anderson, with whom I corre-
sponded when gathering material about
her renowned teacher, wrote to me. It
was Placidia.
*** *** ***
“Dune”: No, “Myall” (B. 27/8/’5B),
j t W asn’t loud clothes which caused the
noises, it was loud voices; and they
provoked that “Quiet Please” notice in
the North Queensland hotel. wSeveral
years ago I was staying in a hotel in N.Q.,
and each night a fresh bus-load of
tourists arrived. As they had to leave
again first thing in the morning, the
only time the women had to press skirts
and slacks was the evening of arrival.
There was only the one iron in the
ironing-room, the veranda outside my
bedroom window; and as there was
such a lot of talkover of the doings of
the day and that divine bus-captain, my
dear, and such a queue waiting to use
the iron, you can imagine the noise.
In self-defence I painted that sign and
hung it over the power-point, and
evidently it is still there, doing its job,
I hope, for the benefit of the occupants
of Room 11.
»
❖ ♦> ♦>
“Dorian”: Having been torn from
slumber at an unearthly hour by a loud
“crash!” and having found the culprits
to be a couple of books and a wooden
book-end, I lay awake with the following
situation swirling through my sleep-
fogged brain: Gore Vidal’s Messiah
to Evelyn Waugh’s The Loved One:
“Let’s wake him up.” Waugh: “Leave
him alone; you know his temper.”
Vidal: “You’re scared. You’re scared
he’ll toss you out.” Waugh (testily);
“Just because I happen to be one of a
family of Waughs in the bookcase.
You’re the only Vidal; as such I
suppose you consider yourself unique.
After all, you are a Yank.” Vidal: “I
don’t dig your nasty British sentiment.
Anyway, I say we roll on to the floor.
What about it, Book-end?” Book-end
(yawning): “O.K. by me. Could do with
a spot of exercise.” Waugh: “Well, old
chap, if you really mean it. Heave-ho.”
* * *
“O’ Johnno”: Tasmanian R.A.C. is
getting stuck into stickers, humorous
stickers, on the rear windows of cars ;
they fear the consequences of kids urging
drivers to “step on it and let's see what’s
on the sticker ahead!”
♦♦♦
“Sunray”: Well, it was a cold morning,
even for late August in Sydney, but the
gentleman trapped in the pedestrian-
refuge, with traffic streaming both sides
of him, still collected a lot of stares:
oblivious to everything except his sluggish
circulation, he was busy running on the
spot.
TOP-PRICE TALK
“With administrative costs at U.N. still
rapidiy rising, it is estimated that each word
in General Assembly debate now costs Is. 6d.”
Bright gems that are found
In the deep underground
All owe their high price to their rarity ;
But this can’t apply
To the words they let fly
At U.N. No — there’s no similarity!
Whether delegate be
A he or a she,
Addressed as “M'sieur’ or “Effendi,”
They all open their gap
And consistently yap,
All seized with a furore loquendi.
That’d not be so bad
If all their words had
Worked out at, say, tuppence a million
(Near their true worth, I’d say)
With a rate-drop when they
Had jacked wordage up to the billion.
Every word that they sling,
Though, costs us eighteen “wing”;
And you bet they’ll keep it a mystery
As to why all this tripe
Which they spout, and we wipe,
Makes the costliest magging in history.
Though the Big Talking Shop
Is a horrible flop
As a show when it’s on television ;
And they never can bind
Themselves into one mind
When they’re trying to make a decision ;
It’s distinguished by this:
Whether delegates hiss,
Shout out in their rage, or just mutter,
Heave bouquet or brick —
It costs one-and-a-kick
For every word that they utter!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


INDUSTRY AND THE RAILWAYS No. 8
ft
s
j| -t The production of this Revers-
al 4 ing Mill used in the cold
|| i. reduction of steel sheet at
Lysaght's C.R.M. Works, Port
Kembla is rated at over 80,000
|ll tons per annum.
m
QQ.
8
*»
jL T\
A W
J||| /
P'
*
a 1
v *
i-I'SS
V 1
>: l ' . s ''•}
I
From giant mills the clangorous voice of steel rises to resound,
in full-throated echo, throughout all Industry.
Lysaght Works Pty. Ltd. with its record output of steel sheet from
huge plants at Newcastle and Port Kembla make major contribution
to the chorus of Industry the chorus of steel.
In factories, workshops, shipbuilding yards, a continuous flow of
Lysaght's steel sheet is transformed by the skill of Australian work-
manship— into a wide range of essential products.
The story of steel—from raw materials to finished product—is one
of transport on a grand scale a story in which the New South Wales
Government Railways plays a dominant part.
For twenty-four hours in every day, the metallic clatter of the goods trains
echoes, like a giant metronome, throughout all Industry; it measures, with
rhythmic purpose, the vibrant upbeats of Commerce.
The steel tracks of the Railways are the broad highways down which
the wealth of this State flows unceasingly to shipping port and factory
—a constant reminder of how the prosperity and progress of the entire
State is inexorably linked with the New South Wales Government
Railways.
OF*
<6
5V
7T,
<0
<<;
;v
WUTft
iA
J2J
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT


POLITICAL POINTS
Making overtures to A.L.P. members
of the Queensland Assembly to heal the
breach in the party, former Lands Minis-
ter Foley (Q.L.P.) said that unless some-
thing was done Labor would never get
back to power because the Government
parties intended “to sew things up—in
other words, to gerrymander the elec-
torates by way of redistribution.”
It would be a terrible thing if the
Nicklin Government conspired to upset
the fair and equitable Queensland elec-
toral system, perfected by Labor, and
which, before the big split, gave Labor
10 out of 13 seats in the northern zone
and 9 out of 10 in the western zone.
• •
In the Budget debate Haworth, Liberal
M.H.R. for Isaacs (Vic.), made a plea
for a greater Federal interest in roads.
Pointing out that a new Commonwealth
Roads Act would come into force next
year, he said he hoped that it would
delegate specific powers to the States and
the Commonwealth. He advocated a
special roads conference of the Prime
Minister and the six Premiers to see if
some agreement could be reached ; his
own suggestion was that Canberra should
assume responsibility for arterial roads.
He felt that if this were done the Inter-
national Bank might consider a loan for
road-works, “whereas it would be
reluctant to discuss a national project
with six State Premiers.”
Presumably Haworth’s idea is that the
States should cede to the Commonwealth
some of their power over roads, in the
hope that it will be able to find the money
they can’t. It’s worth thinking over.
• •
Billy Sheahan’s astounding statement
in the N. S. Wales Parliament that a
verdict of not guilty did not mean a
verdict of innocence has been rightly
challenged by former Opposition-leader
Vernon Treatt, who says that it reveals
a “frightening attitude” and is apparently
the opinion of the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment.
Sheahan, Downing and Cahill have, in
respect of Mrs. Melville’s charges against
the police, asked for “specific cases.” Is
Sheahan prepared to name, outside the
House, one specific case, say, within the
past three years, where a man has been
found not guilty but is in Sheahan’s
opinion not innocent?
• «
The late Prime Minister of South
Africa, J. G. Strijdom, has been suc-
ceeded by Dr. Hendrick Verwoerd, former
Minister of Native Affairs. Verwoerd is
the man who framed the Nationalist
party’s policy of “apartheid”—which aims
at the ultimate segregation of whites and
coloreds into separate areas.
At the leadership-poll Verwoerd scored
80 votes, against 52 cast for Dr. Donges,
Minister for the Interior, and 41 for
Minister for Justice Swart. On the second
count the new P.M. beat Donges by 98
to 75.
In his first broadcast as Prime Minister
Verwoerd left no doubt as to his policy
on the Commonwealth link. He said
he would devote all his energies to the
establishment of a republic that would be
lasting. He claimed that this was the only
way to bring about complete unity
between the English - speaking and
Afrikaans-speaking sections of the white
population.
In the Union Parliament the Nationalist
party has an overall majority of 43 in
a House of 163 ; it also has a majority
in thiee of the four provincial legisla-
tures, Natal being the exception.
• •
When discussing unemployment Labor
M.P.s seem to have a strange facility for
pulling figures out of the air. Senator
Hendrickson told the Senate
recently that in 1944, “after
four years of war, the un-
employed in Australia still
numbered 400,000.” His
statement was meant to
demonstrate the evil effects
of anti-Labor Governments
in the 19305. If his figures
had been correct they would
have been a sorry indict-
ment of the war-time Labor
Government’s incapacity to
maintain full employment
even with three-quarters of
a million men in the services
and war - time factories
working to capacity.
The figures were, pf
course, absurd. Hendrick-
son claimed he was quoting
the Commonwealth Statis-
tician, but the Common-
wealth Year Book gives no
such figures. It comments
that by July, 1941, unem-
ployment was down to
about four per cent., and
that by June, 1943, “under
conditions of intensive
mobilisation of manpower
for war purposes, involun-
tary unemployment was
practically nil.” In 1944
the number of unemployed
recorded by the trade-
unions was 8073. It is
recognised that this figure
isn’t the actual total out of
work, but it is sufficiently
accurate to give the lie to Senator
Hendrickson’s imaginative tale.
Interjecting while Hendrickson was
speaking, Senator O’Byrne said that
“most of those who went to make-up
the first division of the Second A.I.F.
were unemployed ; the first job they ever
had was when they joined the forces.”
This implication that the Sixth Division
was an army of the jobless has often
been made by Labor members, but no
proof has ever been offered. That it
reflects alike on the motives of the men
who joined-up and on the loyalty of those
who were in jobs when war broke-out
doesn’t seem to occur to those who
utter it.
The charge is meant as a reflection on
the first Menzies Government’s handling
of unemployment, but it cannot be denied
that it implies (1) that men in jobs
weren’t willing to enlist, and (2) that
the Sixth Division could not have been
filled without a pool of unemployed.
Does the Labor party really believe this?
• •
“Ex-ACT”: Met my local member the
other day, and was rather flattered at his
affability until I remembered an election
in the offing. It was O. Henry who said
that autumn was the time when women
without fur-coats grew kind to their
husbands. What connection has that
with my local member? Why, none, of
course.
11 I'm stopping here , Ivan, till We can drop
into the free World."


“It’s high time he bought a second Cadillac !”
Federal Labor, according to Canberra
reports, intends to go to the polls with
a positive policy. Positively the Doc.’s
last flutter!
• •
Fadden’s choice of metaphor when
defending uniform-taxation at a dinner
tendered him by Sydney accountants
wasn’t a very apt one. He said, “I can-
not see anything replacing uniform-
taxation —you can’t put the feathers back
on a plucked fowl.” It’s the taxpayer
who is really plucked, and his condition
is much the same no matter what system
he’s taxed under.
It was another Arthur who first
brought plucked poultry into Federal
oratory. The bird whose feathers
Calwell boasted Labor would pull out
beyond hope of replacement was the
private banking system.
• •
The British Trade Union Congress,
with sound commonsense, overwhelm-
ingly rejected a proposal that Britain
should stop making nuclear weapons
and ban their use from British bases.
Alfred Roberts, chairman of the con-
gress’s international committee, said this
would be equivalent to telling Britain’s
American allies to get out; it would
also mean relying exclusively on the
generosity of Russia not to attack. In
view of the experience of the past few
years, he said, this was asking for
annihilation.
• •
Canadian Prime Minister Diefenbaker
is to pay a short visit to Australia in
December.
• •
Bob Askin, deputy-leader of the
N.S.W. Libs., has challenged Cahill to
prove his opposition to unity-tickets by
refusing to march with Communists in
the Labor Day procession next month.
Joe’s answer will doubtless be the stock
one that Healy, Wright knd the rest
aren’t there as Communists, but as trade-
unionists. That’s probably the Reds’
story too, but the truth is that no matter
where a Communist goes he goes as a
Communist. Being a Comrade isn’t a
part-time job.
• •
Obedient alike to the instructions of
the A.L.P. conference and the urgings
of his election-conscious borderliners,
Cahill is bringing in his bill for three-
weeks’ annual leave for all employees
under State awards. Like his equal-pay
indulgence, this is properly a matter for
the N.S.W. Industrial Court, but the
N.S.W. Labor Government has con-
sistently flouted that institution’s
authority when it has seen the chance of
gaining political popularity by doing so.
Although Cahill thinks nothing of inter-
vening in matters which are within the
jurisdiction of the State Industrial Court,
he is correctness itself where another
Government institution —the Rural Bank
—is concerned.
• •
Bolte easily survived the Labor no-
confidence vote in the Victorian
assembly: 42 to 17. The motion sought
to censure the Government for raising
gas, power, rail and tram fares ; if the
motion had censured the Government for
its underhand manner of raising them
it might have had more support. The
Country party voted solidly for Bolte ;
according to the leader, Sir Herbert
Hyland, charges haven’t gone up enough
—in Melbourne.
• •
Unpopular fare-rises in Victoria have
been leavened with some reforms: work-
men’s concession-tickets have been
abolished because artisans now earn as
much as white-collar workers; the
loaded charges on the “better-class” lines
have been lifted and some relief has
been given to the —er —pioneers in the
muddy, outlying suburbs. Transport
Minister Warner described these charges
as historical anachronisms ; the railways
will miss the historical unearned
increment.
• •
“C.S.”: The world’s against Victorian
liquor-licensees. They’ve been complain-
ing that they can barely make ends meet
and now they find a majority of all
parties in Spring Street against their
proposal to change trading-hours from
9 a.m.-6 p.m. to 10 a.m.-7 p.m. Even
those who supported 10 p.m. closing in
the referendum are against this proposal.
Licensees might do better if they asked
for another referendum on the adoption
of English trading-hours. English pubs
are open until 11 p.m. (10 p.m. in some
districts) on week-nights and 10 p.m.
on Sundays, but close from 3 p.m. until
5.30 p.m., by which time workers have
gone home to tea. Drinks after meals
are less potent.
• •
The D.L.P. intends to pursue the Doc.
into his new electorate. Senator Cole
will hold two meetings in Hunter towards
the end of October.
• •
Since June, 1949, the Prime Minister
said last week, overseas private invest-
ment in Australia has amounted to an
estimated £7OO million. Of this total
about £3OO million has been invested
in the past three years. Menzies said
that with the money had come the techni-
cal knowledge and business skill of some
of the major concerns of Britain, America
and Europe.
• •
“Mugga Way”: Will either of the
policy-speeches offer some real solution
on the administrative side of defence
problems? Will they, for example, assess
the comparative importance of the
various departments and services and
offer some kind of revision which will
obviate the appointment of a separate
Minister for each of the services? Will
they propose the kind of set-up which
will enable a fully co-ordinated and
effective look at Australia’s strategic
problems, and a properly-weighed
attempt to grapple with them inside the
limits both of our own resources and
of what we could expect in the way of
help from our friends in the event of
trouble?


PERSONAL ITEMS
Appointed a judge of the High Court,
W. J. V. Windeyer, of Sydney, succeeds
Sir Dudley Williams. Distinguished also
as scholar and soldier, Windeyer, J., is
the fifth generation of his family to be
connected with law. The first “Personal
Item” ever published in The Bulletin
concerned the Mr. Justice Windeyer of
that time.
• a
Captain of the Orsova and Commodore
of the Orient Line fleet, Commodore
S. S. Burnnand is to retire on December
31. He joined the Pacific Steam Naviga-
tion Co. as a cadet in 1913, served in
War I with the 10th Cruiser Squadron,
and joined the Orient Line in 1926.
Burnnand was awarded the 0.8. E. for
his gallantry when the Orcades was
torpedoed and sank off Cape Town in
•1942, and again distinguished himself
when in command of the Sameveron
in the Atlantic in 1944.
• •
When he received the insignia of the
C.B.E. at a Buckingham Palace investi-
ture, Bernard Flewell-Smith added it to
the M.M. he won in World War I. Born
at Lowood (Q.), he was a pineapple-
farmer at Bracken Ridge, near Sandgate
(Q.), until he joined the staff of the Com-
mittee of Direction of Fruit Marketing
(he’s been general-manager since 1935).
A director of the Australian Producers’
AGRICULTURE
Wholesale Co-operative Federation and
a member of the Australian Canned
Fruits Board, he received his C.B.E. for
outstanding service to the fruit-and-
vegetable industry of Queensland.
Appointed patron of the Water
Research Foundation, Field-Marshal Sir
William Slim will find a further outlet
for his keen interest in the development
of Australia. J. G. Beale, M.L.A., is
chairman of the Foundation.
• •
Returning to Melbourne a few weeks
ago from a year’s guest-lectureship in
the U.S., Dr. Ezra Wyeth now has to
repack his bags—he’s been appointed
senior lecturer in education and
psychology at San Fernando Valley State
College, California. Hailing from Bris-
bane, where he was lecturer at the
Teachers’ College 1939-49 (interrupted by
two years’ study at the University of
California to gain his doctorate), Dr.
Wyeth has been senior lecturer at Mel-
bourne University since 1949, but he
can’t keep away from world-travel —three
months at Colombo under the Colombo
Plan and last year back at the University
of California and Portland State College.
As chairman of the Victorian Council
for Promotion of Cultural Standards, he
has forecast the disappearance of the
worst comic - magazines with the
appearance of good-standard westerns
on TV.
• •
Originator of the Luxaflex £5OO novel-
prize (mentioned on the “Red Page”),
W. R. Hill is co-manager and marketing-
director of Hunter Douglas Australia
Pty., Ltd. Born at Fulton, in Kentucky,
he .first came here in War II with the 32nd
U.S. Infantry Division. He fought along-
side Australians in New Guinea and,
invalided from there, met and married
a Melbourne lass. Somewhere along the
line he gained the conviction that Aus-
tralian literary talent needed encourage-
ment. Now it’s up to the novelists.
• •
Senior prefect of “Shore” (Sydney) in
1937, B. H. Travers, 0.8. E., M.A.,
B.Litt. (Oxon), has been appointed head-
master at his old school, succeeding L. C.
Robson on January 1. Leaving Sydney
University for war-service in the Middle
East and New Guinea, Travers returned
to take his Arts degree when the war
ended. A Rhodes Scholarship then took
him to Oxford, after which he joined
the staff of Wellington College, Berkshire
(Eng.), and later of Cranbrook School,
Sydney. He is at present headmaster of
Launceston (Tas.) Church Grammar
School.
His record on the sporting side is as
impressive as his scholarships and war-
fare —cricket and football blues at both
Sydney University and Oxford, half-
blue for athletics; captained Oxford’s
Rugby team and played several times for
England. Still keeps-up a Digger in-
terest, at present commanding the
Launceston Regiment, C.M.F.
In “Nude With Violin” the 12-year-
old boy explains an outburst of temper
by calling his father a bastard, and the
graceless valet-parent (Robert Helpmann)
puts an arm round his shoulders saying:
“It’s the only thing we have in common!”
—a blase technique which Helpmann
BALLET
employs just as serenely when being inter-
viewed. Even so, though talking
quietly, he makes his points sound force-
ful enough —a fluent talker, expert on
the worth of this and that in the theatre,
spiced with wit.
A South Australian, educated at
Adelaide’s King Alfred’s College, Help-
mann has been dancing in top-class
ballet for 25 years—through the five
classics as well as most of the moderns,
and for several he’s done the choreo-
graphy too. He has now switched his
main effort to acting, with Shakspeare
among his notable successes. It was, in
fact, while playing in “Hamlet” at the
Old Vic that he got the idea for the
ballet which begins at the point where
Hamlet dies: he will dance the name-part
in its forthcoming production at Sydney
Empire, after he has finished the current
run of Noel Coward’s comedy at the
Royal.
Helpmann’s remarkable versatility in
theatre includes also producing of both
ballets and plays (the “Nude” is under
his direction). Films in which he has
appeared include “One of Our Aircraft
is Missing,” . “Caravan,” “Henry V,”
“Tales of Hoffmann,” and “Red Shoes”
(for which he arranged the choregraphy).
• •
Pat Lawlor: When I made my first
trip to Sydney in the old Manuka in
1914 I shared a cabin with a brainy-
looking man named Robert J. Dickie.
Much of his time on the voyage was
spent playing with pennies in a little
machine he had brought with him. It
was a stamp-vending machine he had
invented and was then in use in N.Z.
and destined to find favor in many


countries throughout the world. Between
them, he and J. H. Brown greatly im-
proved the machine over the years. The
energetic Bob Dickie lately passed on in
Auckland, at 82. He joined the Post
and Telegraph Department in 1891 and
retired in 1931.
• •
Now in Australia after crossing Africa
by boat and the Indian Ocean by Qantas
Constellation, Gale Yeomans was one
of a team of eight men and one woman
whose journey was sanctioned by the
International Geophysical Year. This
first coast-to-coast water-crossing of
Africa was a 3000-mile trip, made in
three 15ft. fibre-glass boats powered by
outboard-motors. With such company
as hippopotami, crocodiles, swarms of
bees, tropical insects and snakes, the
travellers moved along nine rivers and
proved that there is a satisfactory water-
way across Africa which could shorten
road-routes by two-thirds. They also
claim to have traced the origin of native
currencies.
• •
Eugene Malinin, the 28-year-old
Moscow-born pianist now making a
concert-tour of Australia, began his
career, like most other leading virtuosi,
a few years after he left the cradle. At
an age when most other kids are pulling
toys to pieces he was accompanying his
opera-singer mother in Mozart and
Schubert songs—in public. At the ripe
age of five he was admitted to Moscow’s
Central Musical School; later, at the
State Conservatoire, the celebrated Pro-
fessor Neuhouse put on the final polish
(he’d already won international contests
at Budapest and Warsaw). In the last
few years Malinin has established his
reputation as one of Europe’s foremost
players of Chopin.
• •
‘Shibli Bagarag”: Almost every week-
day for the past 60 years two Canterbury
(N,Z.) farmers, Happy and Ernie Haw-
kins (identical twins), have cycled nine
miles to their pet pub at
Papanui for a beer or
two. -Recently the order
varied. They had free
beer and handshakes
from 10 a.m. till closing-
time and returned home
not by bicycle but in a
taxi. It was their 80th
birthday. There was an
interruption to their
regular marathon during
World War I, when they
were known as the hand-
somest twins in the
N.Z.E.F. On leaving the
Army they swore never to
shave again. That they
Were true to their pledge
was obvious from the
birthday - photo, which
shows bountiful beards
bathed in beads bubbling
from the base of the
brimming bumpers of
brown benison borne by
a beneficent barman.
Harry Lambert Wheeler, native of
Muswellbrook (N.S.W.) and a senior
member of one of the largest N.S.W.
legal firms outside Sydney, belongs to
a long-lived Australian military family.
His grandfather, son of a Waterloo
casualty, came to Sydney with the 48th
Foot (Northamptonshire) in 1817, went
on to India for service in several cam-
paigns, and returned to settle here in
1851. H. L. himself had a commission
in the 34th Battalion, A.1.F., in World
War I, was twice mentioned in dispatches,
and was severely wounded at Villers Bret.
Back in Australia, he commanded the
2nd Battalion, C.M.F. (1922-26), and held
a command in L.O.C. in World War 11.
Mayor of Newcastle in 1929, when
the new City Hall and Civic Theatre
were opened, Wheeler (who’s pictured
below) has been president and patron
of a host of Newcastle bodies public—
returned-soldier, social, charitable and
sporting. The honor of which he is
proudest was his election to a life-
membership by the Newcastle R.S.L. on
his birthday in July. In recent years he
has become more and more associated
with big business in Newcastle and
Sydney, was a driving-force in the
creation of the newly organised Brambles
Industries in conjunction with American
interests, and is its chairman. He is chair-
man, alternating with a U.S. representa-
tive, of the associated company Brecketts,
Ltd. He is also chairman of Interstate
Steamships and of Maitland Main Col-
liery. He takes a keen interest in sport,
including golf and cricket, and is a life-
member of Newcastle Rugby Football
COMMERCE
League, and latterly has turned to the
Turf and become part-owner of two
promising gallopers that have been doing
well on Sydney courses —Nearest and the
filly Helene.
• ©
Youngest son of Sir Henry Parkes
(who was born in 1812) and another
member of the old 34th Battalion, able
to remember F. G. Galleghan (B.
30/4/’5B) as a sergeant, Cobden Parkes
has retired as N.S.W. Government
Architect. He held that post from 1935,
but started architecture as a cadet back
in 1909. One of his first jobs was design-
ing the new abattoirs ; he remembers
when sheep and cattle were driveu
through the streets of Sydney across to
Glebe Island.
Parkes was on Gallipoli with the Ist
Battalion ; commissioned there, he went
off the list when a Turkish grenade took
three fingers off his right hand. He came
back to take command of recruits, but
persuaded the doctors to pass him fit
for fighting again in time to join the 34th
in France, when H. L. Wheeler was 2/i.c.
• •
Retiring after 51 years in the Westra-
lian Public Service, Under-Treasurer
H. W. Byfield started as a 14-year-old
messenger-boy in the Kalgoorlie Water
Supply, went to night-school and quali-
fied as an accountant, then in 1924
became clerk-in-charge of the Public
Works Department’s internal audits. He
went to the Treasury as chief assessor
in 1927, and became Under-Treasurer
four years ago. Other jobs he’s held
have been commissioner of the Rural
and Industries Bank and of the Fre-
mantle Harbor Trust, and he had a big
say in the management of the W.A. Meat
Export Works, which the Westralian
Government acquired in 1942. His ser-
vice covered the decline of the gold
industry and the rise of Westralian agri-
culture and beginning of industrial
expansion.
© •
Into the Silence: —•
In Sydney, at 86, Sir Henry Barraclough,
former dean of the Faculty of Engineering at
Sydney University.
In Adelaide, at 75, W. H. Jeanes, secretary
of the Australian Board of Cricket Control
from 1926 to 1954 and of the S.A. Cricket
Association from 1926 to 1955. He managed
the 1938 Australian team in England.
In Mareeba (Q.), at 64, Andrew Couper,
VK4BW, formerly XQM, pioneer radio-ham.
He was experimenting with sparks and coherers
before World War 1, in which he served and
was wounded.
In Nicosia, Cyprus, at 35, Assistant-Superin-
tendent D. J. M. Thompson, of the Cyprus
Police Force. A native of Auckland (N.Z.),
Thompson was killed by a Greek-Cypriot
terrorist when on duty.
In Melbourne, at 45, Paul Henry Randell,
leading consultant-engineer in textiles.
In Adelaide, at 66, Leslie James McMullin,
former president of the S.A. Trades and Labor
Council.
In Buenos Aires, Lady Beecham, wife of
conductor Sir Thomas Beecham. Under her
maiden name, Betty Humby, she was well
known as a concert pianist.
In Brisbane, at 67. orthopaedic surgeon Dr.
Harold Crawford, 0.8. E. One of Queensland’s
best-known doctors, he was decorated by the
Queen for his services to medicine and
Dhilanthropy.


SIR DUDLEY AND THE DUCKBILL
By ALEC CHISHOLM
HPhe passing of former N.S.W. Governor
Sir Dudley de Chair (in England at
94) reminds me of a curious platypus
episode at Government House, Sydney,
during Sir Dudley’s residence there.
At the time an astute Englishman,
Lord Burnham, visiting Sydney as leader
of a newspaper delegation, allowed it
to be known that he yearned to see a
living example of Australia’s duckbilled
oddity ; and so, after some hesitation,
I sent a telegram on the point to Harry
Burrell, the Platypus Man, who chanced
to be working then on the Namoi River.
A couple of days later a hefty and
healthy duckbill came to hand and was
taken to Government House. There, in
the presence of Lady de Chair and two
or three of the
English visitors, plus
the then-youthful
Somerset de Chair
(who rushed in while
resolutely gripping
refractory pants),
the animal was
placed in water in
Lord Burnham’s
bathroom.
Because that room
was small, and be-
cause it served a
dual purpose, there
was little space avail-
able as more and
more of the visitors
came pressing in,
and eventually, while
facing a barrage of
questions on matters
platypusian, I was
pushed so far back
that 1 found myself
sitting, together with
Lady Violet Astor,
on the lid of a cer-
tain contraption at
the end of the apart-
ment.
Obviously, you
never know what
odd situation may
develop when you
exhibit a platypus in
a small bathroom!
The display ended, I was about to take
the animal away (with the intention of
releasing it in a stream near Sydney)
when Lady de Chair got the idea that
the Governor ought to see the quaint
creature. Sir Dudley was out of town
but would be back next morning. Could
not the platypus be left in the fishpond
overnight?
“He would disorganise all your fish,”
I protested.
“I don’t care if he does,” the lady
declared.
Also, that sturdy and resolute woman
overcame another of my objections—to
the effect that a platypus must have scope
for rest from swimming—by going to
the Government House woodpile and
dragging a log from there to the pond,
One of the Englishmen went further:
he seized a small cane-chair from a lawn,
heaved it into the water, and shouted,
“I move that the platypus take the chair! ”
Accordingly, the furry ex-resident of
the Namoi River was left to spend a night
among the vice-regal goldfish.
How long he tolerated that company
will never be known, but the fact is that
when the pond was inspected next morn-
ing the goldfish had the scene entirely to
themselves. Even when all the water
was drained away, as it was on the order
of Lady de Chair (now somewhat agi-
tated), neither a living nor a dead platypus
could be found.
That development was very puzzling.
If the duckbill had escaped without aid,
how had he contrived to clamber up a
vertical wall from water almost a foot
below the rim? And, for another prob-
lem, what had become of him?
An answer to the second of these
questions came several days later, when
a beachcomber at Rushcutter Bay was
astonished by seeing a fantastic “fish”
crawling ashore. Gingerly scooping it
up, he put it in a box and made for the
Zoo, where the “fish” was identified as
a platypus, and where (inevitably) it very
soon died.
Quite a deal of lamentation super-
vened. Government House, in fact, went
into a sort of private mourning over the
event.
Personally, while regretting the out-
come of the adventure (and regretting,
too, that the amiable Sir Dudley had
failed to make the acquaintance of the
platypus), I was moved mainly by a
feeling of wonder at the animal’s remark-
able performance—at his climbing up the
steep wall of the fishpond, at his travelling
overland several hundred yards to the
Harbor, and at his living in or near salt-
water for at least four days.
The episode generally, it may be added,
was still fresh in the mind of Lady de
Chair when, a year or two later, we
members of the N.S.W. Institute of
Journalists entertained her and Sir
Dudley on the eve of their departure
from Australia. Indeed, her recollec-
tions of the platypus at Government
House enabled her to begin her speech
with a sly statement that rather rocked
the audience.
“Ladies and gentlemen,” she said
blandly, “I think perhaps I should tell
you that I first met your president in
a bathroom!”
As remarked earlier, the displaying of
a platypus is apt, in certain circumstances,
to promote complications!
* * * *
Patsy, a sheep-dog at Mount Moriac
(Vic.), got so used to a couple of
new-born lambs (two of triplets) sharing
with her own pups the available milk-
supply that when her own offspring were
sold* she commandeered other stray
lambs and put ’em on the strength for
rations. Her present flock numbers
eight, a bit of a strain on the maternal
bowser! —“Two Jays.”
« f f f
“Meg”: Australia’s oddest epitaph is
probably on a tombstone at Sandy Bay
Cemetery, Tasmania. Looked at from
directly in front it appears to be an
irreverent comment. The carver, appa-
rently an amateur stonemason, was
unskilled in his letter-spacing, with the
result that the final “e” in his message
on the headstone, “Lord, She Was Thine,”
had to be put around the corner on
the edge.
* * * *
“Manamoi”: Neither applied psy-
chology nor mechanical ingenuity
has so far enabled man to overcome
the reluctance of sheep to enter a dip.
Some sheep are easier to handle than


“Looks like he's going for the cannon."


others, but, by and large, you won’t get
the same sheep through the same dip
more than once or twice without trouble.
This applies equally to plunge-dips, with
their infinite variety of entrances, and
to sprays, showers and submersible cages.
Many a sweating, cursing man has taken
time off from heaving his sheep in, indi-
vidually and by brute force, to. design
some truly sheep-proof contrivance that
would do credit to Heath Robinson but
never defeats the jumbucks for long. For
many years the pet dream-solution was a
iace with a conveyer-belt floor—till a
sufficiently wealthy grazier built one. It
worked like a charm the first year and
Reasonably well the second ; but by the
third year the sheep had learned to run
backward faster than the belt could be
run forward.
* * * *
“Ceg”: At the close of a sweltering
day he decided on a dip at his hobo
camp, which was in the grounds of an
outback school. Peeling off, he climbed
“Excuse me, sir.”
on to the roof of a shed which stood
alongside the tank, and jumped in. He
emerged, giving expression to the choicest
range of swearwords this side of the
black stump, in 10 seconds flat after
he had submerged in water hot enough
to have given a cray the correct
rubescence. It took a week in the local
hospital to get his rind back into work-
ing order.
“Myall”: Travellers who pull-up at the
little pub at Coen, a hamlet on Cape
York Peninsula (N.Q.), are introduced to
Oigle, who, although only, 12 weeks old,
has his daily pint of beer, which he
drinks straight from the bottle. Oigle
also relishes boiled-lollies, cake and pea-
nuts, and he’s not above scoffing a bar
of soap for dessert. A piglet, his other
joys include a romp with the canine
larrikins of the township, and in his spare
time, which is considerable, he is fond
of a snooze pn the veranda chair. But
his great and abiding love is for beer, and
he is fortunate that he has it laid-on, his
boss being the pub-keeper. .
* *
“G.G.2”: Do cattle see spooks?
When l work ed on Warenda (W.Q.),
which had an area of about 5000 square-
mileSj carrying up to 30,000 cattle, the
run a tailing-yard at Pollygammon
Bore, on flat country about half-a-mile
from the borehead. Mature animals
weren’t affected, but there was never a
mob D f two-year-old steers put in there
in the evening that Would still be there
next morning. There’d be a job to repair
flattened fence-panels on one side, and
a day to muster the youngsters, whose
nerves had apparently broken from seeing
some bovine hobgoblins. There was
never anything material to cause the mad
urge to break out.
* * * *
“Ringerette”: Sleeping on our veranda,
we were disturbed by succulent munch-
ings and slurpings not far away. We
guessed the muncher to be a kangaroo
having a go at a bone, and although
the inky night made it impossible to see
our visitor my husband decided to give
him a fright. Stealthily he edged towards
a shotgun, loaded it, and pussyfooted
towards the end of the veranda. As the
roar of gunfire set the nearby ranges
ringing our cat leapt frenziedly from its
sleeping-place and headed for Tennants
Creek and points west. Our laughter
at this gradually died away, leaving only
one sound to assail our astonished ears
—the sound of the ’roo still happily
munching. Now, are kangaroos stone-
deaf, or do they simply delight in living
dangerously?
• ' * »■ *
“Cheyne”: Literally and figuratively
an end-of-the-line town, Esperance
(W-A.) has been attracting the attention
of Yank investors who are interested in
the rich farming-land in a good-rainfall
area. One seegar-chewing dollar-fancier,
pressed to stay just another day in order
to see a special farming-demonstration,
protested: “I couldn’t parsibly spend
another night there,” indicating the
locals’ favorite pub. “There’s naw central
heating.”
.* * * *
“D.A.A.”: Sign on the battered gate of
an old weatherbeaten homestead on a
lonely earth-road west of Stanthorpe
(Q.):-
Travelling salesmen are not welcome as
they waste my valuable time.
* * * *
“Sackfair”: Is it really so remarkable
that a life-raft was able to ride out a
100-knot typhoon which caused a sub-
marine resting 200 ft. below the surface
to roll 10 degrees (B. 30/7/’58)? Not
only would combers run under an in-
flated raft but its smallness would be
an asset, as Thor Heyerdahl and his
companions on the Kon-Tiki balsa raft
found —had theirs been a few feet longer
a following wave could have crashed
into the stern before the previous one
had swept free of the bow. This
“spanning the trough” principle is con-
sidered of vital importance by small-
craft seamen. They knew that, although
a small craft can sometimes weather a
mighty sea capable of wrecking a much
larger vessel, a lesser swell that wouldn’t
seriously menace the bigger ship could
sink the small one.
* * * *
“Fasdean”: Back. of Coonamble
(N.S.W.) can usually be seen mobs of
hen emus feeding, and even flirting with
unattached young males, all day long
during the hatching-season, while the old
man sticks like glue to the nest (if the
depression in which the big green eggs
are laid merits the name). The hens don’t
seem to care two hoots about the eggs,
or whether the old man ever has a bite ;
but the minute the stripey chicks are on
the leg, they go all maternal once more.
* * * '•
“Tostig”: Cats gone bush (in this part
of Victoria, the Otways, at least) suffer
extensively from Panleucopania or feline
enteritis ; and it is probably this that
keeps them from attaining pest-propor-
tions like rabbits and foxes (B. 20/ 8/ ’5B),
When the disease breaks out in plague
proportions, as it does every two or three
years, the mortality-rate is as high as
70/80 per cent. For domestic cats there
is always the vet. and his Chloromycetin ;
their wild sisters mostly succumb to the
pneumonia which follows the enteritis.


The Quetta Memorial Anglican
Cathedral at Thursday Island has
as an altar-piece an unusual painting
presented a few years ago by a focal
artist. The central figure is a robed
Christ with arms outstretched ; a kneel-
ing native figure is at one side, with a
pearling-lugger on the other, the back-
ground representing the waters and
islands of Torres Strait. Recently, on
Aboriginal Sunday, the foundation-stone
of the new Roman Catholic War
Memorial Cathedral at Darwin was laid,
and it, too, will have a painting which
breaks away from convention. Executed
by European artist Karel Kupka, it shows
the Holy Child in typical native fashion
on the shoulder of Mary, with one leg
around her neck and a hand resting on
her head. Worked into the background
“But, on the other hand , she makes a very substantial bumper-bar .”
are symbolic drawings of native subjects.
The picture is entitled “Our Lady of the
Aborigines,” and both figures are repre-
sented with aboriginal features. The old
church, by the way, was riddled with
shrapnel and machine-gun bullets from
strafing Zeros during the Jap. air-raids
in ’42 and ’43, and had all its windows
destroyed by bomb-blast; but a statue
beside the altar, although pierced from
front to back, remained unshattered. —
.“Erubian.”
“Myall”: When Brisbane City Council
decided to remove the birds and animals
from the Botanical Gardens a male emu
had been sitting on a clutch of eggs for
14 days. Two of them were given to
Ron Hoppe, who put them in an electric
fry-pan, setting the temperature at 103
deg. After 44 days the little emu in one
of the eggs commenced to chip his way
out; it took him 24 hours to break
through the thick shell, and it was a
further seven hours before he was free
and able to take his first walk. He has
been named Small Fry.
“Kinta”: At lamblng-time a Crookwell
(N.S.W.) grazier reverts to the old method
of the shepherd’s crook for catching his
ewes. Beautifully carved, it was sent to
him from Scotland and has proved so
successful that employees on the property
have made replicas.
* * * *
“Cynic”: A variation of “Bungaroo’s”
explanation of the derivation of the Vic-
torian township of Cape Clear (B.
20/8/’5B) is that it stemmed from a sign-
post marked “Kape Clear” erected in
the worst bog on the track used by the
bullock-wagons. However, Irish settlers
were certainly among the earliest at Cape
Clear, and it is possible one of them
fondly remembered Cape Clear in the
Quid Sod. Incidentally, the nearby town-
ship of Rokewood Junction is also
strangely named, as Rokewood is nearly
seven miles away—a long way for any
junction.
* * * *
“Bass”: Having secured the Empire
Games for 1962 —at an unestimated cost
—Perth has again been in the throes of
the battle for the Olympic-pool in King’s
Park, but with the acrimony which
marked the dispute last year replaced
by assorted flippancies. One sugges-
tion I like is that the park be split in
two, the “Three Peas” (as the park-pool
protagonists have been dubbed) to
develop their half as they like —complete
with pool, the biggest hotel in the
Southern Hemisphere to accommodate the
Games visitors, a brewery to slake their
thirsts, and a universal cathedral in which
the varied sects could invoke their deities
before each event; while the naturalists
and those who profess to see beauty in
native Australian bushland could make
what they would of their section. The
suggestion obviously wasn’t meant to be
taken seriously, but it has possibilities.
F’rinstance, the city could be divided in
two —and. those who want the Games
could pay for them.
ANLARY
No maps are needed, when I move in
darkness
Through the gentle valley of my journey
home
Where, still unchanged, my childhood
secrets \
Move like foxes, furred in fable,
From daytime hiding to the night’s release.
The country calls softly, curlew and
plover
Across the silent creekbed dry with
summer
To the spring'welling in the one deep pool .
By the bent bridge l cross, a crane
Lifts in a slow flap to the full moon
That burns up like a grassfire on the bare,
flat hills.
The avenue before me ambles to the
house
Clasped like a stone in a farmer’s fist
By pepper-tree and pine, pitted, both
Wood and stone
In the twist of wind and the washing of
age.
More than memories move in this house,
For in me like nerves, from nursery to
deathbed
Are its rooms, and running like veins
Are the curves of its corridors conducting
my blood.
Love, leave-taking, losses and hatreds
Are its population always, so if no person
were there
Yet in the deep distance, the darkness of
trees,
Secretly a light would be struck for my
return.
Nature alone is noble, and here I may
know her,
Expect no other enemy at end of day
But frost forming or floods waiting
Black in cloudbursts from the barren west.
All unaltered, the ordinary things
l will find where I left them even though
forgotten :
Summer or winter, thistles clicking in the
paddocks
Or water tapping on tin from the drying
gutters,
Sounds unloosening the strangling world.
Drawn on the moon-face, down the dry
river bed,
A rock is regained, sheer with sheoak,
Choice of my childhood, a cliff-high open
chimney
To which I heaved huge boulders
And sent them bouncing, in great bites
of grass
To toss down trees and topple to rest in
the river.
A sentinel of secrets, stationed on rock,
l challenged the foxes to bark at my feet.
Simpler than striving is the stress of love ;
Locked in its pools, the river halts,
Waiting for winter to unwind its length.
But l am committed to motion, and
memories deeper
Than the cold centre of the seasonless
spring.
S.A.
GEOFFREY DUTTON.


ALASTAIR W. MACDONALD
(MEMBER OF THE SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER,
117 Pitt Street, Sydney Telephone BL 1504-5
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Export Prices and Shares
’WfEAK wool prices at the
opening of the new
season’s sales have not yet
affected the buoyancy of the
Australian sharemarkets. In
some ways Australian share
prices - seem to have become
remote from the economic
realities of the present. This
is partly because of the Aus-
tralian habit of having a specu-
lative binge every so often,
but partly also the result of
investment anomalies in the
whole Australian scene, many
of the anomalies resulting from
taxation policy with regard to
company earnings and com-
pany dividends.
These tax-anomalies, among
other things, encourage the
issue of fixed-interest securities
rather than ordinary shares, and
promote the purchase of shares
by institutions rather than by
individuals.
An investment-yield of 3y
p.c. from a front-line ord. share
may have no appeal to an
individual who has to pay tax
on it, but an investment
corporation receiving the div.
tax-free would find it a better
proposition.
Though B.H.P. shares have
receded from their high-water
mark of 50s. (and rightly so,
from the point-of-view of
immediate income prospects),
among second-line stocks an
atmosphere of expectancy has
been built-up by the good
results of many companies
which have reported on their
1957-58 operations so far.
Not all have had a successful
year, but a number have pro-
duced pleasant surprises.
Diligent investigation of
good second-liners seems to
offer the most- immediately
profitable field for the private
investor, but he needs to have
time available for the initial
investigation and for subse-
quent watching of his invest-
ments. Particularly should he
note whether they are likely to
be affected directly by the
recession in prices for rural
products.
Indirectly, too, there will be
adverse effects from the fall in
export prices and the shrink-
age in export markets. In many
cases these will be only
marginal effects, the Australian
economy being much better
balanced than at any previous
time. If import-restrictions
should be increased it may
mean, of course, a stimulus for
some of our manufacturers.
But the overall effect will be
patchier results.
Even B.H.P. has noted the
effect of decreased orders from
“Spare a moment?”
overseas for its steel, as well as
some falling-off in demand
from the rural industries. These
reverses will not be permanent,
but it is still true that we cannot
insulate ourselves entirely from
the effects of rises and falls in
overseas markets. This applies
to investments as it does to
trade.
B.H.P. Capital Plans
ATo further issue of new
share-capital will be made
by B.H.P. this year; but the
matter will be given considera-
tion in 1959. At the annual
meeting chairman C. York
Syme indicated that interest-
bearing finance, which came
into prominence during the
1957-58 term, would be availed
of further during 1958-59.
“Capital-expenditure by the co.
and its subsidiaries continues at a
high rate, and in 1957-58 amounted
to £23 million,” Mr. Syme said. “It
is anticipated that capital-expendi-
ture at the current rate will be
needed for some years.
“At present our consolidated
accounts show that secured long-
term borrowings amount to £l2
million, and during the next 12
months it is anticipated that this
figure will be increased to about
£2O million....
“As your directors now see the
position, a new share-issue will not
be called for in the near future,
but the matter is likely to require
consideration during 1959.
' “Australia has made great pro-
gress since World War 11, despite
the effects of inflation. I am con-
fident that this progress will con-
tinue. The demand for steel is
increasing with the further develop-
ment of manufacturing industry,
and this, combined with the growth
of population, will require addi-
tional supplies.
“The size of the iron-and-steel
industry and the ramifications of its
processes are such that generally
a considerable time must necessarily
elapse between the planning and the
commissioning of new facilities.
Although it is true that the iron-
and-steel industry is peculiarly sus-
ceptible to sudden fluctuations, so
far as possible these fluctuations
should not be allowed to interfere
with plans for long-term growth
“Adverse conditions abroad have
had their effects Qn Australia, but
so far as the iron-and-steel industry
is concerned their impact has up
to the present not been severe.
“The most serious effect has been
the fall in our export-steel business
with countries other than New
Zealand Australia was again a
net exporter of steel during the year
under review. On the home market
the demand for most of our
products remains steady.
“There has been a gradual
increase in the rate of output of hot-
dipped tinplate at our Pott Kemfrla
flat-products division since produc-
tion commenced in July, 1957.
Installed capacity of the hot-dipped
plant is 70,000 tons a year, and
during the last few months produc-
tion has approximated this annual
rate. Average Australian usage of
tinplate during the past four years
has been 133,000 tons. The part
our-product is now playing is best
evidenced by the sharp decline in
tinplate imports. As soon as we
can do so, it is our intention to
extend tinning capacity at Port
Kembla by installing a continuous
electrolytic plant and thus provide
capacity for Australia’s total require-
ments of tinplate
“Subject to a satisfactory agree-
ment and its ratiiication by the
S.A. Parliament, your directors
consider' we are now able to take
steps for the establishment of a
steelworks at Whyalla. Under the
proposed agreement we are under-
taking to spend £3O million on this
project by 1970. Plans for this
development are now being worked-
out, and these will be influenced
very materially by future market
considerations and likely technical
developments in our industry.”
Although the rate of capital-
expenditure had seemed to
stabilise last term, and the
ftronger liquidity of the
B.H.P. group had been visible
in the accounts presented some
weeks ago, it was not until
just before the annual meeting
that the sharemarket sensed
that the usual near-Christmas
share-issue would not be made
this year.
Inflated Public Service
Whilst the Federal Govern-
ment, in its 1958-59
Budget, by its overall financial
arrangements, purports to set
its face against monetary
inflation, it does not appear to
be so concerned about inflation
in the numbers of its civil
servants.
While these swarm most
noticeably in Canberra, they
are, in fact, scattered over all
parts of the Commonwealth ;
those in Canberra represent
only a small fraction of the
total Federal payroll.
A Federal civil service is
necessary ; and it is bound to
be a considerable body. But it
needs to be watched with an
eagle eye against inflation of
its numbers. It is fundamentally
prone to inflation, and it is


let*
<•••
.w
VJV '*®
O
Let A.N.Z. BANK make al£ your
travel arrangements
Their travel experts will be happy to attend to sea and air bookings,
accommodation, assist you with tax arrangements, passport and visas
in short, every detail of your trip. Travel abroad with the knowledge
that everything is handled reliably through A.N.Z. BANK.
Money for Travel
Whenever you travel, abroad, interstate or on a country trip, carry
A.N.Z. BANK Travellers’ Cheques. Readily encashable, they are the
safest, most convenient way of carrying money. In the event of loss,
the amount is promptly refunded in full by the Bank.
A.N.Z. Travel Service is available through every
Branch of
A-NZ
i_* » *_]
W
NX BANK
j
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
ANZ497.2458
very close to those who control
the public purse. In fact, it
tends to control Ministers,
rather than the other way
round.
With so much of the national
income now passing through
the hands of the Treasury in
Canberra and through the con-
trol of the Commonwealth
Bank in Sydney the current
move by employer organisa-
tions in private industry to
initiate action to limit the size
of the public service is
thoroughly justified.
Governments and civil ser-
vants, almost without qualifi-
cation, create nothing in the
way of goods, even though
some of their “business under-
takings” may render a variety
of services. In a country which
is backward in its rate of pro-
duction of goods it is as plain
as a pikestaff that we can ill
afford an overdose of public
servants.
Perpetual Archibald
Tn his bequests, as in the
A major part he played as
co-founder of The Bulletin,
the name of J. F. Archibald
crops-up almost weekly in Aus-
tralian affairs.
The Archibald Prize for
portrait-painting hats made
many headlines, especially since
William Dobell won the award
with his painting of Joshua
Smith. The Australian Journa-
lists’ Association in Sydney has
Archibald to thank for the
establishment of a flourishing
fund for helping ill and out-
of-work journalists. And then,
of course, Sydney has the
Archibald Fountain —probably
the most graceful and interest-
ing memorial in N.S.W.
During, a week in which a
Sydney Fountains Committee
has been formed with the
approval of Lord Mayor Jen-
sen —donors have already pro-
mised to finance fountains in
Macquarie Place and at the
intersection of Hunter Street
and Elizabeth Street—the
Perpetual Trustee Co., Ltd., has
issued its annual report with
the cover-design a painting of
the Archibald Fountain, and
with a description of the foun-
tain and its history running
through the inside pages.
The Perpetual, as trustee for
the estate of J. F. Archibald,
was the agency through which
the fountain was erected to
carry-out his wish to have
erected “some beautiful bronze
symbolic open-air memorial
commemorative of Australia
and France having fought side-
by-side for the liberties of the
world—l9l4-18.”
The fountain, the work of
French sculptor Francis Sicard,
was unveiled in Hyde Park on
March 14, 1932, and in the
26 years that have since elapsed
the memorial has become
almost a§ much a t of
Sydne a j the Harbor Brjd _
1 Whkh “ PrC-
ceded b y flve da y s '
carrying-out the wishes of
T. F. Archibald in the form
of the Archibald Fountain the
Perpetual Trustee Co. did
a praiseworthy job, of which
the company’s attractive and
informative annual report for
1957-58 is a well-justified
reminder.
1 \
Shareholders’ Guide
Tn 84 pages R. Keith Yorston,
•*- in his Australian Share-
holders’ Guide , endeavors, in
brief chapters and simple
language, to acquaint the un-
sophisticated investor with the
essential background to Stock
Exchange investment.
He assumes that the prospec-
tive investor may not even
know a stockbroker, or even
be acquainted with the nature
of companies, balance-
sheets or profit - and - loss
accounts, and leads him
through the field of investment
from the purchase of shares up
to the point of calculating the
value of rights to new issues
and the fundamentals of
balance-sheet interpretation and
analysis.
The Australian Shareholders'
Guide is essentially a clear and
straightforward explanation of
the main features of Stock
Exchange investment, and most


m
m
Z)Le Pen wi th tlu
arveilouS
!4 carat L/o
Every Conway Stewart Pen is
fitted with a genuine
14 carat gold nib.
Every Conway Stewart Pen is
fully guaranteed.
Every Conway Stewart Pen is
excellent value.
Ask your Retailer
he knows.
The No. 85L
42 x 6
he Conway Stewart
No. 15 at 29/6
No. 12 at 35/-
No. 76 at 60/-
CONWAY STEWART & CO. LTD. LONDON
newcomers to the Stock Ex-
change will find its brevity a
virtue. It is also valuable read-
ing to any investor who wants
to brush-up on the broad prin-
ciples of company finance and
control at a couple of readings.
The rights and responsibilities
of shareholders are emphasised
throughout the book.
“The present is an age of
a M°r n
currently With speculation pro-
ceeds investment—the means
by which men and women
endeavor to set, aside capital
with the object of securing an
income....
“It is a recognised pro-
cedure that before purchasing
a house or land-property it is
necessary to obtain a solicitor’s
opinion in order to ascertain
whether the ‘title’ is in order ;
but few investors in company
shares take any steps at all to
see if their ‘title’ will be all
right. ‘Look before you leap’
is a motto particularly applic-
able to intending shareholders;
it is necessary to read and
understand the rules and regu-
lations applying first to corn-
panies in general, and then
more particularly to the* com-
pany in which it is intended to
invest, before actually invest-
ing.”
The-Australian Shareholders'
Guide is published by the Law
Book Company at 18s.
.
Oi. Hun, Five Years Old
September 5, 1953, West
Australian Petroleum Pty.,
Ltd., in the presence of a
Bulletin representative and
other pressmen, “spudded-in”
the now-famous Rough Range
\ at Exmouth Gulf
(W.A.) and started the most
extensive and expensive oil-
exploration m the history of
* “ e Australian continent,
Wapet (in which Ampol Ex-
ploration has a 20 p.c. interest)
last week reviewed its five
years’ operations,
Since 1953 56 wells have
been drilled and two' are now
drilling, and thousands of
square-miles have been covered
by oil-exploration survey-crews
by foot, vehicles, boats and
aircraft:
They have ranged from the
South-west to the sand-dunes
of the Canning Desert.
Cost to date of this huge
operation has risen to
£14,500,000.
Such feats as the landing of
4000 tons of drilling-equip-
ment on the beach at Exmouth
Gulf; the construction of a
£45,000 road up rugged Cape
Range; the drilling of Cape
Range No. 2 well to 15,169 ft. —
deepest ever drilled in the
Southern Hemisphere and
other similar achievements have
aroused the imagination of
Western Australians.
Geologists have probed
the Canning Desert to
the Stansmore Ranges as well
as Dirk Hartog Island and
Barrow Island, off the coast.
More than 200,000 ft. of hole
have been drilled ; more than
8000 miles of access-roads have
been bulldozed in isolated
areas ; more than 40,000 tons
of equipment have been moved
north ; more than 32,000 cases
of geophex explosives costing
£280,000 have been used by
seismograph-crews in their
sufvey work.
Wapet has undertaken exten-
sive and intensive geological
field-work; engaged in struc-
ture-drilling for sub-surface
information ; employed the air-
borne magnetometer, the
gravity-meter, the seismograph,
and has carried-out deep
exploratory drilling.
Before Wapet began opera-
tions in W.A. the basic field-
work at Exmouth Gulf was
carried-out by the Common-
wealth Bureau of Mineral
Resources. Wapet began its
field-work in 1952, when a
seismograph contractor took
the field at Exmouth Gulf.
This work led to the location
of the Rough Range No. 1
well, which discovered Aus-
tralia’s first flow of oil at
3605 ft. in December, 1953.
Despite all the efforts of the
co., which threw in its best
technical resources and drilled
numerous holes in the area, no
further oil was discovered.
Wapet was forced to the con-
clusion, after nearly four years
of major effort, and an expen-
diture of nearly £6,000,000, that
the oil it had discovered in
Rough Range No. 1 well came
from a very small accumula-
tion, insufficient for commer-
cial production.
But Exmouth Gulf was not
the only area of interest; and
while wells were going down
at Exmouth geologists were
ranging from Cape Leeuwin in
the south to Christmas Creek
in the north.
They were joined by gravity-
meter crews and flying-
magnetometer specialists, who
covered the 282,000 square-
miles of sedimentary areas in
W.A.
The seismologists, -whose,,
survey task is to carty-out
detailed work in promising
areas, were then brought back
into the picture and they began
the search for new drilling-
locations.
Heavy drilling-rigs moved
by sea and land to these loca-
tions, and the task of probing
the earth for geological
information and the elusive
oil began all over again.
Grant Range, Fraser River,
Samphire Marsh, Giralia and
Yanrey became the focus of
attention.
it has been a long, costly
and often frustrating job for
the oil-explorers. Dry hole
after dry hole has plagued
them.
Major scene of oil-explora-
tion now is in the Kimberleys.
Seismic crews have been hard
at it for several years, foilow-
ing-up leads established by the
gravity-meter and magnet-
ometer crews. And close
behind them are the drillers.
Currently Wapet is drilling
at Meda, 40 miles east of
Derby, and at Goldwyer, about
40 miles e.-s.-e. of Broome.
Meda well has given the oil-
men their first indication of
the possible presence of oil in
the Kimberleys. Recently there
have been minor showings of
oil and gas in this well, but
on test these were not of com-
mercial significance.
This concentration in the
Kimberleys does not mean that
the exploration men have lost
interest in other areas of
Western Australia.
So far the oilmen have not
achieved their find oil
in Western Australia in com-
mercial quantities. But from
the work of the last five years
they have gained possession of
a great amount of geological
and geophysical information
which Wapet hopes may hold
the key to ultimate success.
Whatever happens, the State
has benefited considerably
from the work carried-out.
And with the experience of the
last five years behind it Wapet
continues to press-on vigor-
ously with its oil-search, a
search which has from the start
been a project of national
importance.




PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY UNITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
PAINT BARGAINS
3 Gallon Drums at 59/6 per
Drum. Olive Green Gloss Paint
(Lead & Oil Base). Manufac-
tured by 1.C.1. of England.
F.O.R. MELBOURNE
SEGALS,
48 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“Curly on The Rack”
About half-way through Ru
Pullan’s “Curly on The Rack,”
at Sydney’s Elizabethan, one
fell to wondering whether to
stay or do a Benchley, and
then, deciding that the author
had, if a little untidily, at least
set his characters and situations
to generate a mild suspense,
remained to see what happened
to everyone.
At this stage, to put it rather
more briefly than does Mr.
Pullan, Max and Harry (Grant
Taylor and Max Osbiston) are
living in Rabaul with their
sister (Coralie Neville) and
making a very good thing out
of salvaging war-time equip-
ment ; Max is tough, domin-
eering and the physical leader ;
Harry is quieter, more human
and more intelligent; there is,
at this stage, an unexplained
undercurrent of tension
between them. Curly (Ken
“Howya doing , Elvis?
Wayne), a cocky little brag-
gart, works for them as a
truck-driver waiting his oppor-
tunity to recover from a near-
by island (The Rack) £lO,OOO
he planted there during the
Japanese invasion. Sco b i e
(Stewart Ginn), who lost both
legs during the war, arrives
from down south to claim his
half of the money, since he
helped Curly to plant it. Smith
(John Gray), a pleasant, philo-
sophical drunk, floats around
on the sidelines.
Thereafter, however, the
dramatic cliches and tortuous
contrivings that go with resolv-
ing the situations are rather less
than bearable, and the scene
wherein Scobie recovers his
manhood and Max reveals his
yellow streak must be one of
the most preposterous bits of
hoo-ha served to an audience
for many a day.
Gray and Owen Weingott (in
brief appearances as a ship’s
captain) emerge the least
scathed from the dramatic
calamities around them.
* * *
Rafael Kubelik
Czech conductor Rafael
Kubelik, returning for another
tour for the A.8.C., showed
at his first appearance with the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra
that his mercurial temperament
and enormous vitality are still
with him; likewise his ability
to ride the orchestral whirl-
wind with seeming insouciance,
as he did in Berlioz s “Carnaval
Romain” Overture.
Ravel s Tomb of Couperin,”
which followed, was a neat
essay in Gallic subtleties, its
delicacies enhanced by some
magical oboe-playing from lan
Wilson.
The first half was rounded-
off with a performance of
Dvorak’s “Symphonic Studies,”
which are more cosmic in their
sweep than most of the
Bohemian’s works.
The big work was Beet-
hoven’s Symphony No. 7, and
the reading gave plenty of point
to Wagner’s description of it as
the “apotheosis of the Dance.”
In fact, Kubelik gave its
naturally strong rhythmic fea-
tures such an exultant touch
that one had to discipline the
feet.
*s■ &
“The House by the Lake”
Sydney Genesians’ current
offering, this tidy little thriller,
tidily produced by Evelyn
Wood against Lenore O’Brien's
effectively dark-toned setting, is
about a psychiatrist who has
been struck-off the medical
register because of the financial
defalcations of his step-brother,
and who, with his sister’s co-
operation, plans to murder the
cause of his deregistration.
It is a neatly written piece,
with suspense stretching tautly
between the hitches and in-
terruptions before the murder
and the inevitable flaws that
appear afterwards. James
Scullin quite skilfully suggests
the corrosive bitterness in the
mind of the doctor without
playing the part for too much
sympathy ; Kathleen Gaffney
makes a very moving figure of
the utterly dependent wife
caught up in ideas and events
beyond her ken; and Tessa
Hughes effectively registers the
strength and fears of the sister.
They are well supported by
John Graham, Kathleen Scott,
Barbara Melody and Ray
Irons; John Shaw, as the
detective, needs a much more
persuasive authority—the only
time the production hiccoughed
was when the wife agreed to
help him trap her husband. Mr.
Shaw’s unsympathetic playing
of that scene made it seem
quite incredible.


WHY GAMBLE?
with your romance by “Hit or Miss”
method, while we have your ideal part-
ner waiting for you. Hundreds lonely
people of opposite sex to choose from.
Everywhere, all ages, nationalities, occu-
pations, seeking Romance. Write TO-
DAY for FREE brochure No. Xl5. State
your age, sex, address, etc. We reply
in plain sealed envolope. Confidential.
No obligation.
MILTON’S, Box 2871, G.P.0., Sydney.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Jackson &
O'SUUiVAJV
X pram P
& nwiS? g
TfIAOET***»M*RK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
"Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Eugene Malinin
Almost unheralded, 28-year-
old Russian pianist Eugene
Malinin flashed through
Sydney rather like another
sputnik, but his all-too-brief
season was sufficient to show
a fantastic technique geared to
an intellect of a high order in
a Chopin and Liszt programme.
He gave one of the finest
performances of Chopin’s C
Minor Etude, Op. 25 No. 12
ever heard here. The delight
and despair of all pianists, the
opening and closing sections
of this study are probably the
severest test of octave-playing
at maximum speed. Far more
important than his accuracy—
his hands .were a blur over the
notes —was that he was able
to make it also a beautifully
shaped example of first-rate
objective music.
There were also the great
F Sharp Polonaise, its drama
stamped-out with tremendous
sonority from the left hand ;
two delicate and beautiful
Nocturnes —the D Flat, Op. 27
No. 2, and the E Major, Op.
62 No. 2 ; and the second of
the four Scherzi, in B Flat
Minor, given a reading of rare
dynamic range, with full
emphasis on the staccato
chords which form the hard
core of it.
The Liszt was the B Minor
Sonata, the Hungarian’s biggest
work for the instrument.
Malinin gave it the works in
the grand manner, leaving a
shower of flaming notes and
shattered decibels in his path.
❖ ♦> *Z*
Musica Viva
After considering the Musica
Viva concert with Barenboim
and Amadio in Sydney Town
Hall, one of the most enjoy-
able chamber-music concerts
of one’s life, it was with a
twinge of conscience one read
the opinion of a seldom-heard
and most respected colleague
next morning that the A.B.C.
string-team hadn’t spoken-up
for themselves.
Well, maybe Ernest Llewellyn
and Robert Pikler didn’t
exactly bring the violin and
viola to the fore in the Mozart
K. 478 Piano Quartet; but
one put it down to a desire
not to be outdone by young
Daniel Barenboim’s beautiful
blending pianism, a model for
solo-pianists taking part in the
doings of small groups.
Nor, in the Beethoven Flute-
trio Suite in D, Op. 25, where
the clarity of the young, pure
writing is emphasised by the
simple juxtaposition of violin
and viola, did one feel any
lack of balance; Neville
Amadio toots a beaut flute (as
none less than Sir Thomas
Beecham remarked), and the
virtuosity of his runs of
popping notes against string
pizzicati in the extraordinary
minuet of this suite should be
seen to be believed, but the
real quality of his performance
might be best judged by the
blending softness and precision
of his incidental and accom-
panying notes.
Back with Barenboim in the
Brahms Piano Quartet in C
Minor, Op. 60, the group
achieved what to them would
no doubt seem an inestimable
miracle —for the first time one
really liked Brahms. Here
Barenboim’s chameleon style
surged and flowed with
warmth and power ; and here,
too, the inscrutable Lois
Simpson, who had been doing
“plonk-plonk” all the evening,
launched into one of those rich
and mellow ’cello solos, intro-
ducing the andante, and set
fire to Llewellyn’s violin, so
that their duet melted even
the heart of the “Herald’s”
world-ranging Dr. Forstus, a
fact which one noted with
relief the following morning:
at least one had been right in
thinking well of that.
♦♦♦ +Z+
“Not in the Book”
An eminently respectable
civil servant is threatened with
blackmail by a bogus South
American police inspector
when, conveniently, he is also
asked by a young writer to
read the story of a perfect
murder he has written. He
reads it with unusual interest
and waits for the arrival of the
blackmailer, who, discovering
he is in process of being
poisoned, becomes so indignant
that he has an apoplectic fit
and falls dead. For the rest
of the evening the civil servant
is fully occupied in trying to
convince the police that he
didn’t do what he planned to
do because the blackmailer
obligingly did it for him.
Edwin Styles employs his
well-known suavity, grace,
charm and emotional under-
statement in the main role, and
is ably aided and abetted by
Miss Sophie Stewart.
At Melbourne Comedy.
“Rock ’n Reel”
This “intimate revue,”
authored by Peter O’Shaugh-
nessy and Barry Humphries and
put on by Melbourne Little
Theatre, caused much laughter
and side-splitting as the skilled
cast went about defining
suburbia a la Moonee Ponds.
In parts this was done magni-
ficently, not by the usual exag-
geration or by straightout
caricature, but by copying and
selecting from actualities. The
lectures and reminiscences of
Mrs. Everage, a unique but
probable creature, and of the
man who could have been
married to her, were funniest
when they were truest —when
the words and mannerisms had
been chosen from real life with
merciless and mirror-like
accuracy.
The revue’s more conven-
tional lampooning and stock
humor, as displayed in “I’m
a Flaming Beaut in a Bathing
Suit,” and “Adult Education,”
merited few laughs and, follow-
ing immediately after wonder-
fully funny sketches, fell
dangerously flat. Both could
be scrapped.
Exaggeration and pointed
satire entered into “For New
Australians,” a cruelly hilarious
review of the well-known
A.B.C. session. Perhaps that
august body might gracefully
accept the inference and
profit by it. Humphries and
O’Shaughnessy throw mud at
sundry aspects of suburbia in a
manner which is alarmingly
funny in “Erasing a Husband”
and “Migrant Hostess.” It was
probably Humphries who put
together and pulled to bits
“Prospects for Melbourne’s
Opera House” and “Wild Life
in Suburbia.” To both he
brought a remarkable acting
talent.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Let’s Get Married”
In his latest musicomedy,
put on by Sydney’s north-side
St. Augustine Players, John
Sullivan shows that his sense
of theatre has sharpened, his
lyrics have acquired a better
note of comedy, and his
dialogue is more natural. His
comedy-situations still need
more pep, but he retains the
ability to come up with a
quiverful of pleasing melodies
—the theme-piece, “Let’s Get
Married,” could stand com-
parisbn with many a Cole
Porter song.
Breaking away from his
earlier English-setting tradi-
tional, Sullivan has set the
light-hearted doings in a
Sydney suburban coffee-lounge,
with a jet-airliner pilot as the
hero, and with the plot revolv-
ing around the shop-pro-
prietor’s adamantine opposi-
tion to his daughter's romance
with the pilot.
Betty Cheal, as a cook with
a passion for uninhibited
frankness, ran away with the
show. Nola Gwyer sang the
heroine in a soprano of limited
range but pleasant timbre;
Russell Lyons’s good light
tenor and manly air suited the
hero; Theo Flateau etched-in
a neat piece of comedy ; and
Audrey Mills and John
Rodgers filled auxiliary roles
capably.
Sullivan, as well as supplying
book, lyric, music and sets, took
the role of the stubborn parent.
Mrs. M. E. Cameron directed
the musical side expertly from
the piano—no mean feat in a
musicomedy.
Artbursts
Adelaide Exhibition
Two lively young painters,
Brian Dunlop, from Sydney,
and David Dridan, of Adelaide.


Nothing can equal
A Government - Guaranteed
investment for
Complete Security!
GOVERNMENT - GUARANTEED
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
5V«% LOAN
For
5, 10 or 20 YEARS
Principal and interest are guaranteed by the
New South Wales Government, and secured
on the Bo a r d's income, estimated a t
£13,900,000 for 1958/9. Assets exceed
£135,060,000. An Authorised Trustee
Investment.
Holders in Loan No. 43 maturing 15th October, 1958, are
invited to convert to this Loan. Those who convert gain
continuity of interest payments and earn a higher rate from
15th October, 1958.
Cash and Conversion applications may be lodged with any
office of the Commonwealth Trading Bank, Australia and
New Zealand Bank Limited, Bank of New South Wales, The
Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited; Members
of Stock Exchanges, or the Sydney Water Board.
SYDNEY WATER BOARD LOAN
Closes Next Saturday
Underwritten by
Ernest L. Davis & C'o., Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
J. H. Clack & Co., Members of The Newcastle Stock Exchange.
MW87.58
have combined in a spirited
show at the S.A. Society of
Arts. If one steps gingerly
through the various influences,
there is a genuine personality to
be found in each of these
artists.
Dunlop can express
character with warm feeling,
rather a rare gift nowadays, and
his drawings show that this is
not dependent on color. It is
a pity that the ambitious
gouache of a bull attacking
horses has not achieved unity,
the bull and the horses remain-
ing separate, but his “Girl with
a Dove,” “Blind Family,” and
“Man Sleeping” show what he
can do with muted color and
the human figure.
Dridan has a greater range,
and more intellectual bite. He
is at his best when conveying
the immediate sensuous impact
of a city at night, the shapes
of rock, a landscape, or ripe
pomegranates, while at the
same time giving them, by
design, a sharp content of
meaning.
G.D.
❖ ❖ ❖
Art Competitions
Sydney Journalists’ Club has
entered the art-competition
field for its 1958 award and
offers one prize of £2OO and
four prizes of £5O for drawings,
prints, drawings intended for
newspaper publication, and
color-illustrations intended for
magazine publication. Closing
date is November 30, 1958 ;
details available from The Arts
Committee, Journalists’ Club,
36 Chalmers St., Sydney.
The 12th Albury competition
closes on September 26. It
offers a variety of prizes,
chiefly £lOO for an oil and £35
for a watercolor. Details from
Mrs. Helen Jones, Central
Chambers, Kiewa St., Albury.
The 1958 Mosman Prize (80
guineas for an oil, 40 for a
watercolor, 25 for a drawing)
closed on September 8, and the
exhibition will be held from
September 15 to September 27.
Entries for the Concord West
(N.S.W.) Municipal Award
close on September 15. Prizes
are 70 guineas for an oil, 40
guineas for a watercolor ; pic-
tures in both sections “may be
on any subject except [ahem]
nude figure studies.” Details
from S. K. Money, secretary,
Concord West Parents’ and
Citizens’ Association, 42 Moala
St., Concord West.
Closing date of the next
Blake Prize will be February
25, 1959. Prizes are £250, and
a special award of 50 guineas
known as the Darcy Morris
Memorial Prize for “the best
religious painting for a scrip-
tural subject.” Details from the
secretary, Box 4484, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
Films
“The First Texan”
There is better characterisa-
tion than in most frontier pieces
in this Paramount film. Stick-
ing fairly close to history, it
depicts the events leading to
the freeing of Texas from the
Mexican yoke by General Sam
Houston who lured the
Mexican commander to a
crushing defeat in a battle of
the American’s choosing,
following the Alamo disaster
in which Davy Crockett and
others of Houston’s staff
perished.
The film is dominated by Joel
McCrea, as Houston —strong,
calm, patient, and keeping his
fiery followers in check until
the enemy is trapped. Good
performances also come from
Jeff Morrow, as a Texan who
itches for a fight and is im-
patient of restraint, and from
David Silva, as the pompous,
cocky Mexican general who
foolishly holds his enemy in
contempt. James Griffiths
makes a brief appearance as
the sinewy, tight-lipped scout
Crockett; and Felicia Farr, as
the girl from San Antonio,
decorates the film charmingly.
At Sydney Plaza.
❖ ❖ ❖
“All Mine to Give”
Set in Wisconsin a century
ago, this film, based on a real-
life story, tells of a young
immigrant Scot and his wife
who arrive only to find that
the pioneer uncle who was to
have taken them under his
wing had died in the fire that
destroyed his log-hut. Aided
by kindly neighbors, they get
on their feet, but the father dies
of diptheria and the mother
soon after of typhoid ; the 12-
vear-old who then heads the
family farms-out his brothers
and sisters to various neighbors
on his own shrewd selection,
and at his dying mother’s
request.
The film’s main qualities are
the compassion that informs it,
the naturalness of the children
and the domestic scenes, and
the thoughtful performances of
Cameron Mitchell and Glynis
Johns, as the devoted couple.
The eldest boy is played by
Rex Thompson with a remark-
able grasp of the role’s
demands.
At Sydney Mayfair.


That
Perplexing Problem!
Incorporated in Vittorio in 187*
TR54.34
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
—how will my Estate he administered?
By appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd. Executor of
your Will, you obtain the benefit of an impartial Executor with over
three-quarters of a century’s specialised experience in the Administration
of Estates, and the assurance that the interests of your legatees will be
safeguarded until the Trusts are completed.
No individual Executor can offer such permanence, security or experience.
Write or call for free booklet setting out the following —
★ Advantages of appointing the Company either alone or jointly with
some trusted relative or friend.
★ Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
★ Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £972,472.
A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.G., D. 5.0., M.C., V.D. (Chairman); W. Sydney Jones;
J. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R. Syme; R. H. Norman, D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.; W. E. M.
Campbell; T. L. Webb.
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., <?.C. (Chairman); J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8.,
K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Heffer; W. Sydney Jones: Alan G. Potter.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
General Credits, Ltd.
TTere, at least, is one h.-p. financier
which cannot claim to be approach-
ing the money-market merely for the
purpose of refunding maturing fixed-
interest issues. A scintillating but far
from mushroom growth, General Credits
was formed in 1953 under the Victorian
Companies Act as a wholly-owned sub-
sidiary of the Automobile Fire and
General Insurance Company of Australia,
Ltd., and, with headquarters in Mel-
bourne, operates branches in Sydney,
Brisbane and Perth.
The finance-starved sector of the
community soon forced the co. to
approach its better-heeled complement
with share- and debenture-issues. In
February, 1955, 2,000,000 shares of ss.
each were placed at par on the open
market and were swiftly snapped-up,
giving the new public concern a paid-up
capital of £BOO,OOO. At the end of the
second year of operations, to April 30,
1955, outstandings under h.-p. contracts
totalled £1,933,911, approximately half of
which was financed out of deposit-
moneys.
In September of the same year an
approach was made to the public with
£750,000 of first-mortgage debenture-
stock, the co. reserving the right to
accept oversubscriptions to £500,000, and
the signal success of this issue brought
outstandings to £3,702,227 by the end of
the 1956 term.
All told, to April 30, 1958, there were
five similar issues of stock, all outstand-
ingly successful. The sixth, and latest,
issue is for £500,000 of stock at par, in
£lOO units. The short-term paper, call-
able to fixed-period, carries interest-rates
ranging from 3| p.c. p.a. for three
months to 5 p.c. p.a. for twelve ; for the
long term, rates are from p.c. p.a. for
two years to 7 p.c. p.a. for five to 10
years. There is also cumulative stock
with a currency of five to 15 years, carry-
ing an interest-rate of p.c. p.a. Ignor-
ing oversubscriptions, the stock is covered
twice-over by net tangibles, and the
interest-charges nearly three-times-over
by the current earning-rate. Under-
writers are J. E. Were and Son.
In August, 1956, General Credits joined
hands with the Commercial Bank of
Australia, Ltd., which undertook to sub-
scribe for 3,142,000 ordinary ss. shares,
at par. A one-for-five par issue to ord.-
shareholders accompanied this transac-
tion, which, of course, gave the co.’s
credit-rating with the investing public a
tremendous fillip, with the consequent
advantage of cheaper loan-money.
Thus, General Credits has strong ties
with both banking and insurance, the
C.B.A. claiming a 45 p.c. and the A.F.G.
a 20 p.c. direct share-interest, and is
solidly entrenched in the financing of
new and “as-new” autos, and general
household equipment. It also provides
a useful service, in financing industrial
equipment for primary and secondary
industry. The larger proportion of con-
tracts are written in Victoria and the
Riverina. There are, however, outlets
throughout the length and breadth of
the Commonwealth, provided by the
C.8.A., which, with its 400 branches,
offers its affiliate valuable facilities for
all facets of its business.
Of the seven private trading-banks, six
have now made deals similar to that of
the C.8.A., and the E., S. and A. has
formed its own financier-offshoot; and
this broadening-out has given rise to the
suspicion that the banks’ nefarious motive
is to lend depositors’ money out at lucra-
tive h.-p. terms rather than at stifling
overdraft rates, limited by law to a
maximum of 6 p.c.
Nothing has been further from the truth.
The stranglehold which the central bank
has kept on credit through the special
accounts has, overall, forced the banks
to reduce the overdrafts of their financier-
customers, and by far the greater part
of h.-p. funds handled have been
channelled direct from the investment
market, at rates of up to 10 p.c., or even
more, for “fringe” operators.
A phenomenal accretion of new busi-
ness to General Credits has tended to
bring about a too-wide divergence
between shareholders’ interest and
debenture-money, but a one-for-two par
issue last term helped to restore the
balance. Paid capital now stands at
£2,618,250 and the ratio of liabilities to
shareholders’ funds at 4.3 : 1:
1956. 1957. 1958.
Paid capital .. £BOO,OOO £1,352,750 £2,618,250
Reserves .. 43,798 66,761 362,082
Debentures and
deposits .. 2,169,400 4,283,415 9,755,992
Creditors, etc. .. 131,265 189,267 468,707
Unearned income 503,031 784,961 1,826,051
Tax provision .. 70,395 87,640 395,611
Final div. .. 40,000 67,638 87,275
£3,757,889 £6,832,432 £15,513,968
Freeholds .. 40,559
Office equipment 17,441 40,570 65,252
H.-p. contracts . . 3,702,227 6,385,621 14,907,716
Advances to branch
managers .. 10,796 15,137
Prepayments .. 17,026 9,733
Cash, deposits .. 38,221 377,519 475,571
£3,757,889 £0,832,432 £15,513,968
H.-p. debtors soared by £Bi million to
£14,907,716, and, in consequence, on the
liabilities side, unearned income was
lifted by £1,041,090, to keep the propor-
tion between these two items around
12 p.c.
Despite the higher average capital
employed, the visible earning-rate was
28.4 p.c. and compares more than favor-
ably with the 12.1 p.c. claimed in 1957,
and the 13.1 p.c. and 23.6 p.c. back to
1955:
To Re- Re-
April, Profit. t Dividend serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Flotation expenses, £22,593..) -.one,
1955.. 61,131 10 p.c.= 25,833 1 ° 18,961
Tax overprovided, £26 .. .. .. 18,987
1956. .104,811 10 p.c. = 80,000 24,811 43,798
Share-issue expenses written-off, £879 42,919
1957.. 10 p.c. =112,244 23,842 66,761
Share-issue expenses w/off, £853 . . 65,908
1958.. 460.905 10 p.c. =164,731 296,174 362,082
Higher by £324,819, the net profit was
struck after charging gross profit,
£1,646,860 (£674,132 in 1957), with
operating expenses, £876,135 (£437,581),


depreciation and amortisation £21,806
(£3502) and a tax-provision for the year
ended April 30 at £307,970 (£98,615), the
last two items appearing to have been
calculated on a rather conservative basis.
Included in operating charges waS
£52,0 i 0 of debenture-issue expenses
written-off, and, in view of the nature
of the business, this item seems a justi-
fiable charge against annual profits,
although strictly it should be spread over
the relevant period.
The unsettling effect of mooted restric-
tive legislation on the h.-p. equity market
hasn’t overly affected G.C.’s popularity
with investors, who currently offer 10s.
for the f.-p. ords. for a yield of £5 p.c.
from a 10 p.c. div. At this early stage
of the co.’s career, the shares are under-
pinned by a bare ss. Bd. of net tangibles.
Minster, Ltd.
When a company as industrially
ingenious and financially success-
ful as Minster, Ltd., is uncommuni-
cative in its annual report and at
its general meeting there is a tendency
for a “grapevine” of information to be
established ; and last word to come
along the vine was that a third unit of
the carpet-making (and money-making)
plant was being installed for the purpose
of turning-out the co.’s Westminster
rubber-backed carpet and that it will be
in operation before, the end of 1958.
The latest tight-lipped report and
affluent accounts say nothing specific
in support of this gossip, but the
financial figures show that there
has been further outlay on plant
and buildings —before allowing for
depreciation the increase in combined
fixed assets was £212,714, with a net
increase of £147,379. There was also
a loss of £19,150 on “sale or demolition
of fixed assets” (indicating changes in the
manufacturing set-up) and a profit of
£7603 on “sale of fixed assets and in-
vestments.” The investments sold were
150,000 ss. shares in Davies Coop, a
relic of a previous transaction in fixed
assets of Sydney Cotton Mills.
Minster’s consolidated balance-sheet
figures reveal a growth in assets support-
ing not only reports of factory-expansion,
but also a spread in trade-debtors that
indicates at least a sustained demand for
the factory’s products:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1956. 3 957. 1955.
Paid capital .. £616,684‘£1,079,196 £1,079,196
Reserves . . .. 538,137 177,152 355,924
Overdraft .. .. 12,275 99,474
Creditors .. .. 85,511 85,690 95,190
Staff fund.. .. 20.000 36,000 40,000
Tax provision . . 140,483 183,072 216,005
Final div 40,251 80,940 80.940
£1,465,341 £1,735,524 £1,867,255
Freeholds .. .. 398,400 445,967 557,853
Plant, etc 499,483 563,668 599,101
Shares public co. 75.000
Stocks . . . . 375,816 473,618 293,538
Debtors . . .. 177,550 172,271 234,591
Cash, etc... .. 181,619
Intangibles .. 14,026 5,000 493
£1,405,341 £1,735,524 £1,807,255
Debtors (£234,591) are up £62,320;
stocks (£293.538) are down £lBO,OBO.
Both movements are healthy. Sales of
the Davies Coop shares and undistributed
profits over . and above capital-outlay.
plus realisations of stocks, have been
principal contributors to a cash balance
of £181,619 (a new item) and the wiping-
out of last year’s £99,474 overdraft.
Ordinary trade-creditors rose only by
£9500 to £95,190. Principal liability is
provision for income-tax (£216,005).
The co.’s chief subsidiary, Westminster
Carpets Pty., makes rubber-bonded
carpet that has a haircord appearance
(particularly suited for the motor-trade
but also in wide demand as a less-
expensive type of floor-covering) at its
factory (the closest thing to automa-
tion yet seen in the carpet industry)
on an ample freehold at Dandenong,
near Melbourne., Westminster Carpets
Pty. was one of the industrial pioneers
of Dandenong soon, after the end of
World War 11. This subsidiary is now
the largest maker of pile-carpet in Aus-
tralia. Another offshoot, Whitehead
Chemical Co., makes the rubber-
dispersion required; then there are
Rayon (A/sia) Processing Co. (flock
and flock-coated paper and fabrics)
Linatex (Aust.) Pty. (corrosion- and
abrasion-resistant rubber products), and
Sydney Cotton Mills, Ltd., the assets of
which have been largely disposed of.
Following previous duplication of
plant out of undistributed earnings there
was a three-for-four bonus-issue in
1956, financed from asset-revaluation.
But it was not until the past term that
the duplicated plant was able to exhibit
its paces ; earnings of parent and sub-
sidiaries are shown in this comparative
table:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June Profit. Dividend. serves, serves, f
30. £ £ £ £
Profit sale assets, £4BB .. .. 69,482
1953 .. 132,919 8$ p.c.=81,583* 51,336 120,818
Preliminary expenses written - off,
£1796 .. 119,022
To stock reserve, £7784 .. .. 111,238
Added intangibles, £10,739 .. .. 100,499
1954 .. 161,888 15 p.c.=79,922 71,966 172,465
Loss sale assets, £4559 .. .. 167,906
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 157,906
Unexplained reduction, £292 .. 157,614
1955 . . 189,044 15 p.e.=80,344 108,700 266,314
Revaluation subsid’y assets, £181,844.. 448,158
Profit sale fixed assets, £3OO .. 448,458
Tax underprovided, £707 ~ .. 447,715
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 437,751
1956 .. 192,541 15 p.c.=92,155* 100,386 538,137
Net profit sale fixed assets, £33,521.. 571,658
Three-for-four bonus-issue, £462,512.. 109,146
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 99,146
Written-off intangibles, £9025 .. 90,121
1957 .. 260,134 15 p.c-161,880 98,254 188,375
Net loss sale fixed assets, £11,547 .. 176.828
To staff fund, £23,785.. .. ~ 153,043
Written-off intangibles, £5OOO .. 148,043
1958 . . 369,761 15 p.c.=161,880 207,881 355,924
* Includes dividend paid to former shareholders of
subsidiaries.
f Subject to intangibles, £493, 30/6/’5B.
Profit from trading and investment
income rose by £170,702 (to £650,141);
after setting aside £65,335 (up £20,294)
for depreciation, directors’ fees of
£7350, and an adjusted £207,695 (up
£51,078) for taxation, net profit was
£109,627 higher at £369,761.
On a capital that has remained un-
changed at £1,079,196 since the last
bonus-issue in 1956 (in all there has
been £712,512 of bonus-scrip issued),
the latest earnings represented 34.4
p.c., compared with 24.2 p.c. in the
preceding year. For the fifth succes-
sive term a 15 p.c. div. was paid,
and an amount equal to 16 p.c. on capital
remained for reserve-additions after
transfers to staff-funds and other adjust-
ments.
In the absence of information in the
directors’ report, it can be assumed
from movements in the accounts that
there was no problem last year in dis-
posing of all production ; and it does
appear that more Westminster carpet will
be produced in the near future. If
demand and profitability are sustained,
and the management is prepared to rest
for the time being on production-capacity
as established during the current term,
there appear to be reasonable hopes of
higher distributions to shareholders even
from a level of profit such as last year's.
So far the co. has experienced no
problem in importing the goat-hair
which forms the basis of its carpet, and
if the wool-market is any guide it should
be cheaper to buy now than it was a
year ago. All carpet-wools, incidentally,
are imported into Australia, and Aus-
tralians buy more carpet and soft floor-
coverings per head than any other people
in the world.
All that can be said definitely on the
marketing side is that up to date the
co. has had no difficulty in selling every-
thing it has produced.
The sharemarket has recently taken
the price of 10s. f.-p. Minster shares
from this year’s “lowest” of 235. 3d. to
31s. 3d., ex div. At the latest quote
the yield is 4.8 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div.
basis, or 6.4 p.c. should it lift to 20 p.c.
when capital-expenditure is completed.
The investor who put £IOO cash at
par into the original £250,000-capital
proprietary co. and who has retained his
bonus-shares would today have 700
shares of 10s. each in the piesent co. at
a cost of £IOO. On the market now they
are worth £IOBS.
Meggitt, Ltd.
Once again Meggitt’s visible profit was
down on the previous year’s, but
this time the slip was negligible. This
result, points-out chairman V. G. Watson,
must be regarded as satisfactory in view
of the drought-reduced linseed harvest
available for crushing in the 1957-58
term.
The 125,000 acres sown to the flax-
plant, predominantly in Queensland,
yielded only 9000 tons, less than half
of the schedule under normal seasonal
conditions, and the shortfall had to be
made good with increased bulk-importa-
tions of oil from India:
This was in the face of a continued
strong demand for linseed-cake, a high-
protein stock-food prized in the grazing,
dairying and poultry industries.
The drying-oils, linseed and its com-
petitor, safflower, have been up against
increasing penetration by synthetic resins
in the surface-coating industries, and
while linseed-oil continues to dominate
this market, its relative share has tended
to decline in latter years. Gallonage of
oil sold was down slightly last year, and
Meggitt’s pre-war problem, the disposal
of oil as a by-product of stock-food pro-
cessing, may be looming up again.
Linseed-oil is, of course, also the basis
of linoleum-manufacturing, and in this


A WIDE RANGE
OF LIFE ASSURANCE
8c PERSONAL ACCIDENT
8c SICKNESS POLICIES
to meet the needs of all sections
of Australia’s expanding population
AUSTRALIAN
= METROPOLITAN LIFE =
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Inc. in Qld., 1895)
. HUNTER & BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS: E. W. Robinson, Esq.
(Chairman), Col. R. S. Goward, C.8.E.,
P. H. Phillips, Esq., T. Keith Smith, Esq.,
C. W. Rothe, Esq., S. J. Gandon, Esq.
Gen. Manager: W. J. Cooksey, B.Sc., F.F.A.
First mortgage debenture stock
SHORT TERM
O
O
PER ANNUM
12 months 5%
9 . . . 4*%
6 . . . 4%
3 . . . 3i%
LONG TERM
7i
PER ANNUM
5-10 years 7%
4 . . . b\%
3 • • . 6%
2 . . . 5*%
GENERAL CREDITS LIMITED offers first mortgage
debenture stock on long or short term basis. Cumulative
stock carrying compounded on yearly rests with
currencies of 5 to 15 years.
Interesl is paid quarterly free
of exchange.
Investors wishing to withdraw
earlier than the specified
term may do so in accordance
with the conditions described
in the prospectus.
PROSPECTUS,
Bankers are the Commercial
Bank of Australia Limited, from
whom the prospectus is avail-
able and from Members of the
Stock Exchange and Company
Offices at Corner Pitt & Goulburn
Streets, Sydney. Phone: MA 8276.
UNDERWRITERS: J. B. WERE & SON
Thi* is not a prospectus and does not constitute
an invitation to subscribe
10372/N.
connection the No. 1 customer
is the local offshoot of Michael
Nairn, the big Scottish manu-
facturer.
Meggitt’s accounts are more
than a little austere:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capita]— 1957. 1958.
Pref .. .. £40,000 £40,000
Ord 369,182 369,182
Reserves .. 518,566 532,456
Depreciation res. 441,867 487,129
Sundry creditors* 1,040,592 759,902
Staff fund .. 39,000 39,000
Final divs. .. 29,688 29,688
£2,478,895 £2,257,857
Land, buildings 327,282 338,960
Plant .. .. 523,384 582,076
Shares .. .. 43,244 43,244
Stocks .. .. 819,007 793,670
Debtors .. 469,551 279,272
Cash, bonds, etc. 296,427 220,135
£2,478,895 £2,257,357
* Includes unspecified provisions.
One gathers, however, that the
omnibus item on the liabilities
side labelled “sundry creditors
and provisions” (which also
includes tax provisions) fell
during the year by £280,690 to
£759,902, in part reflecting
lower commitments for the
Australian linseed harvest and
the discharge, during the year,
of the first-mortgage loan of
£82,500 from the vendors of
the new Melbourne property.
In the previous term, the
figure of £469,551 shown for
sundry debtors included the
sum of £145,000 owing to the
co. through the linseed-
growing ledger. The current
£271,089, however, represents
normal trade-debts.
The increase in fixed assets is
mainly attributable to the fur-
ther expenditure incurred in
completing the establishment
of the new Melbourne mill.
Besides the modern mill opened
last October at West Foot-
scray, Melbourne, there was
also an expansion in South
Australia, where the processing
of a wide range of stock-foods
was begun by the Adelaide
branch.
Claimed for the year was a
net profit of £73,267 (£75,077
in 1957), after something was
provided for tax. The depre-
ciation charge made-off with
£45,754 (£52,814). A current
visible earning-rate on ord.
capital of 18.8 p.c. is above-
average for the past five
years:
f Dividends •,
Pref. Re-
May,Profit. lOp.c. , Ords. —serves.*
* §L £ £
’52..51,939 4000 10 = 36,918 33,946
'53..53,933 4000 10 = 36,918 46,961
’64..62,485 4000 12}= 46,148 59,298
To staff fund, £IO,OOO .. 49,298
From inner res., £115,748.. 165,040
’65..71,464 4000 15 = 55,378 177,182
From inner res., £150,000.. 327,132
’56..85,111 4000 15 = 55.377 352,866
From inner res., £160,000. . 502,566
’67..75,077 4000 15 ■= 66,377 518,566
’68..73,267 4000 16 = 65,377 632,456
* After deducting goodwill ( £116,748),
which was written out of the accounts
in 1955.
Also hidden away somewhere
was a capital-profit from the
sale during the term of land
at Brooklyn, near Melbourne,
at an “enhanced value”; and
since the end of the year the
old mill property at South
Kensington has been disposed
of at a “satisfactory price.”
The inner-reserve surprise-
packets which appeared in the
foregoing table in the three
preceding terms show that
balance-sheet and p.-and-l.
items may be regarded as con-
servatively stated.
Backed each by 495. of
visible net tangibles, the f.-p.
20s. ords. yield £5 7s. 2d. from
current selling price of 565.
The first and second 20s. 10
p.c. cumulative prefs. (£20,000
of each) are rare visitors to the
’Change.
Amalgamated Holdings
Tnvestors who were pre-
viously shareholders in
West’s, Spencer’s Pictures,
Amalgamated Pictures and
Greater J. D. Williams are
now owners of scrip, in lieu of


The SAFI ten-per-cent
Ca/titpaMl:
PRODUCTIONS LIMITED
£lOO,OOO
0
CASH DEPOSITS
INVEST IN ONE OF AUSTRALIA'S MOST
RAPIDLY EXPANDING INDUSTRIES
Deposits, on the attractive terms listed below, are
invited to meet the expansion demands of Carapark
Productions Ltd.—the manufacturing and distributing
Company of the profitable Carapark Group. Deposits
rank ahead of shareholders’ capital for repayment. Full
particulars from your Broker, from any Branch of the
National Bank of Australasia in N.S.W. and Q’land —
or send coupon below.
1 YEAR
6% po-
-5 YEARS
0 p.a.
UNDERWRITING BROKERS:
CORRBE & CO.
(Members of the Brisbane
Stock Exchange)
127 Eagle Street, Brisbane
Branch Offices: Townsville,
Surfers Paradise
CERTIFICATE OF ASSET BACKING
We hereby certify that the tan-
gible asset backing is £lB5 for
each £lOO of liabilities, including
Cash Deposits. In each of the
last 3 years, profits before tax
would cover interest payments
on Cash Deposits over 3 times.
Henson, Gates & Co.,
Public Accountants.
BANKERS TO THE COMPANY: THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
CARAPARK PRODUCTIONS LTD.
is one of the CARAPARK GROUP
To: Carapark Productions Ltd.,
681 Parramatta Rd., Leichhardt, N.S.W. Ph. LM7317.
Please send me full particulars of your 10% Cash Deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
CD-B.
G. H. PARTRIDGE & CO.
li. D. PARTKIDOE, A. G. HANSON
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
113 Pitt Street, Sydney Telephone: BL. 5031-2
their former holdings, in a new
listed co., Amalgamated Hold-
ings, Ltd., which was formed
during the first half of 1958
to amalgamate their interests in
a common holding-co., the
main assets of which are shares
in the Greater Union Theatres
group.
The position is now that
Amalgamated Holdings, Ltd.
owns half the ord. shares in
Greater Union Theatres, Ltd.,
the other half being owned by
the Rank Group in England.
Amalgamated owns all the
half-million of 5 p.c. pref.
capital in Greater Union. A
half-and-half arrangement also
exists between Rank and
Amalgamated in the ownership
of the shares in British Empire
Films, Ltd., Rank Film Dis-
tributors of Australia Pty.,
National Theatre Supply Co.
and Sixteen Millimetre Aus-
tralia Pty.
Greater Union owns all the
ords. in Union Theatres Invest-
ments, Ltd., Cinesound Pro-
ductions and Automatic Film
Laboratories Pty.
The Greater Union group,
and its chief competitor, the
Hoyt’s group, are now resisting
the full onslaught of TV com-
petition in Sydney and Mel-
bourne. Suburban theatres
have been hit hardest. Most
feature-films are now in color,
and there has been the develop-
ment of the wider screen and
improved sound-reproduction,
all so far denied to TV. In the
case of Greater Union, too, it
has made some financial pro-
vision against TV contin-
gencies; at December 31 last
this reserve totalled £650,000.
The drive-in also aims at
countering TV competition.
The first drive-in theatres in
N.S.W. began screening to-
wards the end of 1956, and
G.U.T. has an interest in some
of these—the Skyline drive-ins
at Bass Hill, Caringbah,
Dundas, French’s Forest and
North Ryde (N.S.W.), all in
conjunction with Consolidated
Drive-in Theatres Corp. Pty.
Interests are also held in Sky-
line drive-ins at Lambton and
Wollongong (N.S.W.). The co.
has other interests in drive-ins
in Victoria, Queensland (addi-
tional ones at Toowoomba and
Townsville opened last term),
W.A. and S.A. (a new one at
Woodville North), as well as
the A.C.T.
All these interests are in
addition to G.U.T.’s major
interests —a chain of about 30
leading picture-theatres in every
capital-city of the Common-
wealth, as well as about 100
suburban theatres. In all,
G.U.T., either directly or by
way of association, is interested
in over 150 theatres, including
the State theatres in Sydney,
Melbourne and Adelaide.
For the term to December
31, 1957, Greater Union, after
noting the TV impact already
mentioned, reported that sub-
sidiary merchandising and
trading activities were mostly
satisfactory, and diversification
was proceeding to protect the
turnover of these subsidiary
interests.
After setting aside £lOO,OOO
for television contingencies
(down £100,000), net profit was
£228,620 (against £225,061 the
previous year). Out of this,
£25,000 was paid as a 5 p.c.
dividend to Amalgamated
Holdings, Ltd., on the half-
million pref. shares, and
£80,500 (up £18,000) on the
210,000 ords. held by Amal-
gamated. The Rank group
received a similar £80,500 on
its 210,000 Greater Union ords.
The increased distribution
took £186,000, and left £42,620
for reserves.
The operating expenses of the
holding co. are small, and on
the increased distribution it was
able to add a \\ p.c. bonus to
the promised 81- p.c., making
10 p.c. for the year and call-
ing for £112,194 when all con-
versions are complete. Total
income of Amalgamated from
all sources was £l-21,922.
The Greater Union group
has a paid capital of £920,000
in 420,000 £1 ords. and 500,000
£1 5 p.c. cum. prefs. It has
capital reserves of £548,768,
general reserves of £222,110,
and p.-and-l. balance of
£1,100,001. There is also the
£650,000 provision for TV con-
tingencies. Outside interests in
subsidiaries are £558,407, and
there is £564,957 of intangibles.
Freeholds, mostly in at pre-
war cost, include the State
theatres, and figure at
£4,141,682; fixed assets total
£5,695,660, against which there
is a depreciation reserve of
£1,589,384. There is obviously
inner strength in these fixed
assets.
Apart from its holdings in
G.U.T. and the subsidiary cos.
already mentioned, Amal-
gamated Holdings has £62,941
in other investments and
£143,675 in debtors and cash.
It has reserves of £153,164 and
liabilities of £67,346.
Upon full conversion, its
paid capital will be £1,121,942.
Net tangible book-value of
Amalgamated’s holding in
G.U.T. is £862,960 for the ords.
and £500,000 (par) for the
prefs. (That is apart from any
share in the provision for TV
contingencies.) In general
terms, and acknowledging
hidden strength in fixed assets,
on an asset basis the ss. stock-
units in Amalgamated Holdings
seem to have ample backing.
Earning-power will largely
depend on how the industry
can cope with TV, especially
when it moves to other States.
But in city or in suburbs
picture-show freeholds should
show a good margin over
book-values in the event of
any property sales. The position
with basic values of drive-ins
may be different.
Amalgamated scrip is now
actively traded. At 4s. Id. for
the ss. units the yield is 12 p.c.
so long as the 10 p.c. div.
continues.


36in.
T
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
( Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
EMPEROR GOLD MINING CO.. LTD.,
VATUKOULA, FIJI.
Require the following technical staff for its gold production
plant:
MILL SUPERINTENDENT:
Age 35 to 55 Years
With experience in treatment of refractory sulphide ores of gold,
preferably of sulpho-tellurides.
Mill treating around 200,000 tons per annum by precyanidation
followed by gassing, flotation and roasting of concentrates in
Edwards roasters.
Large-scale capital expenditure scheduled.
House available married man at low rental. Primary school
on field.
Annual holiday and bonus holiday on completion three-year term.
For full details and salary apply:
COOK, TOMLINS & MIRAMS,
360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
ASSISTANT MILL SUPERINTENDENT:
Age 25 to 35 Years
For mill treating around 200,000 tons per year of refractory
sulpho-telluride gold ore.
Minimum five years’ plant supervisory experience required,
preferably with similar ores.
Large-scale capital expenditure scheduled.
House available married man at low rental. Primary school
on field.
Annual holiday and bonus holiday on completion three-year term.
For full details and salary apply:
COOK, TOMLINS & MIRAMS,
360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
/Cricket has had an unhappy
season.
Exceptionally bad weather
has severely hit the counties’
finances (Yorkshire, to add to
other troubles, has been
robbed of a full month’s play
by rain.) The visitors, un-
fortunately, are below their
expected best, with the result
that the Tests have attracted
only moderate interest. And the
background to the game has
never, since the bodyline con-
troversy of 1933, been more
fractious, backbiting and un-
sportsmanlike.
None of this querulous
behavior has percolated
through to the field of play.
Cricketers, however they may
have comported themselves in
dressing-rooms or in their too-
facile penmanship, have played
the game, with never so much
as a hint of pettiness or prima-
donna-like huffs.
It is unfortunate that a few
of the stars have proved unable
to uphold their standards of
good sportsmanship off the
field, for the publicity accorded
their misdeeds has disillu-
sioned a cricketing public
which, anyhow, is dwindling
year by year. But it would, all
the same, be blind to ignore the
stresses and strains of this
personality-conscious age which
appears to have an insatiable
demand for informed tittle-
tattle. With big money dangled
before them, cricketers are as
human and as venial as other
people; they are, too, very
easily beguiled by their business
agents, men with an acute
financial sense and not over-
fussy about good form.
Alas! Poor Johnny
Now that it’s all over and
everybody’s the poorer for it,
any comments on the Wardle
affair must be in the nature of
an inquest.
Here was a man who was
better-loved as a character
than as a performer, fine
bowler though he is: a slogger
who could electrify an innings
at its desultory tail; a light-
hearted clown who could en-
liven a dull patch by his antics
in the field ; a clown, too, who,
as in the West Indies, could
turn a nasty situation by his
presence of mind ; above all,
an asset to any side.
Up to the point where he was
declared to be “good enough
for England but not good
enough for Yorkshire,” Wardle
had the sympathy of all
cricket-lovers. But his vindic-
tive criticisms, in the columns
of a high-paying daily paper,
of his captain, club and col-
leagues was a self-exposure
which caused him to drop in an
instant from a popular figure
to a fallen idol. The fellow of
infinite jest was, it emerged,
temperamental, outspoken and
given to bad language ; and he
had already shown a wavering
devotion to his profession by
a “no-maybe-yes” dither over
his acceptance of the M.C.C.'s
invitation to tour Australia.
The damage is done, he's
taken his punishment man-
fully, and he’s very contrite.
There was no alternative before
the 22 members of the M.C.C.
committee but to make an
example of him, but they can
only have reached their
decision with uneasiness. Quite
irreplaceable, Johnny is also
still a likeable chap, normally
staunch and more reliable than
the “hearty” type ; he is, too,
quite manageable by a captain
whose cricketing authority he
respects.
Longhaired Capers
What Bloomsbury was to
the ’twenties, Sloane Square is
to the ’fifties, but to a much
lesser degree. The new
Bohemianism seems diffident
and self-conscious. Who, for
example, were the three
grotesquely-clad and bewhis-
kered young men sitting for-
lornly on the steps outside the
Royal Court Theatre, and what
did they represent? Little
more, probably, than tentative
exhibitionism.
Yet this theatre and the pub
next-door have, thanks to the
coming of the English Stage
Company, taken on a character
that contrasts sharply with the
high-priced emporium across
the elegant square. All is very
seemly, though (the one
blemish was an outbreak of fist-
fighting over the merits, and
the alleged blasphemy, of a
Sunday-night play) ; the pub is
spacious and orderly and quite
unlike the old Fitzroy Tavern,
with its smoky congestion and
awash - with - beer cosmopoli-
tanism.
The current attraction is
lonesco, whose double bill,
“The Chairs” and “The
Lesson,” is again being revived.
Houses are full and, though
amused, a trifle puzzled. Un-
like Samuel Beckett, with
whom he is often compared,
Eugene lonesco is not obtuse,
Not a bit. His writing is all
clarity and his effects, largely
borrowed from the music-hall,
unequivocal. Whereas many
sought, often in vain, for the
hidden meanings of “Waiting
for Godot,” these two plays
are easy to follow. The puzzle
is to find their intellectual sig-
nificance.
“The Chairs” is worth seeing,
It has poignancy, form,
character and calls for virtu-
osity in acting and production,
As the two nonagenarians who
entertain imaginary guests in an
old chateau, George Devine
and Joan Plowright are ripely
comic and moving, the one a
lovable “never-was” and the
other his high-spirited but ever-
comforting partner. This crisp
acting, the bringing-on of the
chairs and the bustle of the
mounting tempo make’ a
delicious theatrical joke, and
the final coup, brought off
entirely by lighting, is quite
unexpected,
Something, though, -has gone
awry in “The Lesson.” If
there are subtleties here they
have been lost either in cross-
ing the Channel or in produc-
tion. What might be intended
as its Chekhov au Grand
Guignol is merely fatuous
shaggy-doggery. Joan Plow-
right, this time younger by
some 75 years, underacts and
seems less sure of her tech-
nique, while Edgar Wreford
plays the homicidal professor
like a character-actor from
weekly rep., with all the old
tricks, including pince-nez.
Some deep joke was
obviously intended in this play,
but what it is can only be left
to research.


Enter Possums
Furry Family Affairs
By B. A. KER
IT had been snared when
raiding a kitchen at an
institution where I was
doing some building-
repairs. The snare had
tightened behind the forelegs
and the possum wasn’t dead,
but it would have been if I
hadn’t talked the cook into
putting down his waddy.
Finally he agreed to a reprieve
provided I took the culprit
to
I didn’t. But I did take it
away—home.
A month or so after it had
been released in the big,
disused aviary my wife reported
that the possum was sick ; it
had been huddled in a corner
on the ground all day. Investi-
gating, I got the interesting
impression that the mouth of
the pouch was slightly open.
Next day, apparently recovered
from its sickness, the possum
returned to its open-topped
sleeping-box in the spreading
branch.
One night a little later the
wife greeted me in great
excitement. The possum did
have a baby—she’d seen the
tiniest little claw on the lip
of the pouch.
Some weeks after that the
dog frightened the possum
while she was feeding on the
ground. With the “raspberry ’-
like snort that possums emit
when startled, she sprang for
the branch. The action dis-
lodged from the pouch an
object like an ugly little hairless
rat; it appeared to be blind,
and was attached by the mouth
to an appendage. For two or
three seconds it dangled ; then,
with a series of spasmodic
kicks, it struggled back inside
the pouch.
There were occasional tanta-
lising glimpses of a small body
within the pouch, but it wasn't
until the first day of spring that
the joey cautiously emerged.
And what a transformation!
The hairless rat had become the
prettiest little creature imagin-
able: a fluffy, soft-eyed midget
with incredibly large ears
which, combined with the
quaint little face, immediately
named him —Bambi.
Never was there a more
devoted mother. Coiled
around him in the sleeping-box.
her body carefully placed so
that it was at all times between
the baby and any potential
danger, she washed him as a cat
washes her kittens, played with
him, her soft paws dabbing and
patting, or lay with her fore-
legs cuddling him.
But at any quick movement
from outside the cage, a sudden
noise, he was gone. A pause,
then if there were no more
alarms, a shy little head would
emerge out of the pouch, while
the mother stood suspicious,
ready to fight or jump aloft
to the highest rafter. It was
an enchanting stage.
Even more fascinating was
the pick-a-back phase. I know
of no sight more entrancing
than a joey possum clinging lo
its mother's back and peeping
shyly over her shoulder —unless,
maybe, it’s a joey koala and
mother.
A fright, however, would
still send Bambi diving into
his mother’s pouch, although
the feat seemed an utter im-
possibility when he had grown
to at least half-maturity.
• The pair slept snuggled
together in the box, the
mother’s forearm around her
offspring’s shoulders.
And then the incredible
happened. In one night
the doting mother changed into
a savage, sadistic beast intent
on just one thing: to bite, and
claw and strive to kill her own
baby!
Ruthlessly she stalked him
around the large aviary,
stalked him from box to bough,
wire-netting to roof, stalked
him until his cringing form was
within range ; then, snorting
and hissing, she sprang.
No doubt it was Nature’s
way of preventing inbreeding ;
in the bush the young male
would have been driven far
away, and the danger of
mating with his mother elimi-
nated. But in a cage . . .
The scratches on the little
fellow’s face and his screams
were more than I could stand.
I took the mother for a car-
ride and released her among
tall timber —well away from
kitchens and storerooms.
Bambi recovered from his
ordeal and appeared to be
living happily in his aviary, but
at odd times my conscience
worried me. After all, possums
were creatures of the wild ; they
weren’t meant to be imprisoned
in a cage.
Then one Saturday night I
returned home to find the
aviary door open and the
possum gone. In the morning
neighbors told of two boys
scaling the fence. Somebody
told the wife she had seen a
bushy-tailed animal run up the
box-tree opposite during the
night. She had thought it
looked a strange cat.
The possum was not to be
seen in the tree. On some
whim I left the aviary door
open that night. Next morning
Bambi was back in his box. I
bought a padlock.
Tlambi was 14 years of age
when a neighbor happened
to mention that a relative was
trying to find a good home for
a doe possum.
The possum, it appeared, was
something of a mystery. She
had just come from nowhere
into a closely-settled inner
suburb of Sydney and
developed the habit of coming
to windows at night for
proffered titbits. Where she
slept during the day nobody
knew. Furthermore, she had
a baby on her back.
But trouble had come. An
irate neighbor was a very keen
rose-grower, and possums love
rose-petals .. .
It was arranged that I should
give the mother possum a good
home, and save her life. The
others were going to keep the
joey as a pet.
In due course she arrived —•
in a box tied to the back of a
car. But complications had
crept in: the donor had been
doubtful as to the stage of the
joey’s weaning, so, in the cir-
cumstances, did I mind.... ?
A nephew got us over this
one by taking both the mother
and the baby till the little one
was weaned. A month later
he returned the mother. The
baby was self-sufficient in a
wired-off compartment of his
huge budgerigar aviary.
T>ambi’s coloring was the
light-grey with fawn belly
of the normal silver-grey
possum. The ex-mother was
darker than any other possum
1 have seen.
I pushed her into the cage
and closed the door. Bambi
lifted his head, peering blindly
in the still-bright evening sun-
light.
Warily she moved around
the cage. She cautiously began
to climb up the branch.
Bambi’s pink nose began to
twitch. He sat up in the box.
She approached closer. With a
swift movement Bambi reared
up on his haunches, sparring-up
menacingly, mouth open. Her
head appeared over the side of
the box. Instantly Bambi gave
way to panic. He threw himself
at the wire madly, this side,
then that, snorting, leaping to
cling to the underside of a
rafter, hurling himself down
to h's sleeping-box again—
anything to get away from
the terrifying unknown that
had come into his world.
For about an hour the panic
continued, then Bambi began
to show signs of calming ; the
tenseness left him ; his nose
twitched, sniffing the air ; but
now there seemed to be more
curiosity than terror in the
action. Slowly, very cautiously,
he crept towards the intruder,
ready to leap back . . .
She, all caution, was now
standing stiff-legged in his box.
He approached, sniffing.
Suddenly she cuffed out with
her right paw. It wasn’t a
savage gesture. Rather, it said:
“Sir!” Bambi pulled his head
back quickly, but he aid not
leap away.
For minutes both stood
staring, then cautiously Bambi
approached again. But now
he was emitting a sound that
he had never made before in
the whole 14 years of his life.
It was nothing like the snort
of fear nor the familiar utter-
ance similar to that of the
“scissors-grinder” (fan-tailed
flycatcher). It seemed to be
made with the teeth, a con-
stantly-repeated clicking. Click
a thumbnail with a fingernail
and you have the sound
exactly.
Inch by inch he approached.
Suddenly a claw-tipped fore-
arm struck. He leapt back to
a safe distance, paused for
(<Continued on page 55)


0
,1
QAre you one of those people who put things clown —your
glasses . . . your keys . . . pen . . . ’plane tickets . . .
screwdriver — and five minutes later can’t, for the life of
you, find the confounded things?
QDo you find that, in general, you have a pretty good
memory for faces, but “you’re hanged if you can
remember people’s names”?
QDo you sometimes get tripped up on figures?—27o3? Or
was it 2073? 7302, perhaps? Could it be 3027? What, for
I’ete’s sake, WAS it ?
Q Something that you read in a newspaper, a magazine, report, a letter,
a book, that you particularly WANT to remember! Does such stuff
come freely flooding back to mind when you want it, or do you -some-
times find yourself floundering for the details.
Q ho you sometimes have to rack your brain to recall the bright idea
“ which had come to you during a meal, in bed, pottering in the garden,
or some such inconvenient time? How many of these brilliant ideas
have been “killed at birth’’ because you just couldn't recall them later?
QDo you have “to go all the way back again” to get t£e things which
you “forgot”?
QDo you spend wearisome hours learning such thiugs as ritual, definitions,
material for speeches, and such, “off by heart”?
Q If you are studying for exams., do you have to read subject-matter
“ over and over and over again to “make it stick” ?
OF COURSE YOU CAN
REMEMBER!
If your answer is “yes” to most of the above questions it certainly
does not—repeat, does NOT—necessarily mean that you have a poor or
unreliable memory. Far, far from it! It is far move likely to be merely
an indication that you just do not know HOW to remember the things
that you want to remember.
Do yon not agree that you will get infinitely MORE out of
say, an engine, if you thoroughly understand just exactly how
it works—and how to USE it —properly!
Exactly the same with your memory! OF COURSE you can remember
people’s names! OF COURSE you can remember appointments . . . figures
. . . where you leave things . . . your studies . . . what you want to
remember of what you see and hear and read and think about. In short—
anything at all that you want to remember!
It's just a matter of knowing—HOW!
The well-respected “TRENT” course will show you HOW! Of course
you can enjoy the privileges, the joys, the benefits of a really first class
memory ! And so, too, can the members of your family.
FREE BOOKLETS!
“To Tell You About ‘TRENT’!” . . . and . . . “Are You Studying For
Exams.?” are two separate lfi-page booklets which should be in the
possession of all serious-minded persons. Upon receiving the coupon
below, duly completed, we will gladly send these two booklets to you—
FREE OF CHARGE!
ma
MR. W. LANGFORD-PENNY
ALL MEMBERS
OF YOUR
FAMILY BENEFIT!
The course successfully tested by the
N.S.W. Police Dept., “TRENT” is a
COMPLETE course of HOME in-
struction. Written and presented
by Sydney psychologist Mr. W.
Langford-Penny, the “TRENT”
course—“YOUß MEMORY! HOW IT
WORKS! HOW TO USE IT!”—con-
sists of seven booklets of simple
instruction. The exciting results
that are achieved WITHIN AN
HOUR of starting the course gets
the whole family enthusiastic, and anxious
to learn more. The teachings of the course
are so simple that, with parental guidance,
even the young members of your family
can gain immediate and lasting benefit. AH
parents, worthy of the name, want their
children to do well at school. “TRENT”
richly deserves a place in the home of all
serious-minded people.
P>eing a COMPLETE course of instruction
“TRENT” deals, not only with showing the
student how to approach exams with confidence
—but is also designed to benefit all those
serious-minded persons who realise just what
an important part memory is playing in their
every -day liyes.
"TRENT" will show you
HOW to remember
To mention just a few of the sections in the
course, “TRENT” will show you how to
remember such things as:
. . . people’s names and faces . . . addresses . . .
appointments . . . figures, prices, measure-
ments, phone numbers—you are guaranteed
absolute accuracy with figures of ANY hind
. . , conversations . . . interviews . . . what
you see and hear and are told about . . .
important items of news . . . facts and details
. . . important tilings which you read . .
YOUR STUDIES . . . statistical references . . .
correct spelling . . . where you put tilings . . .
lodge ritual . . . ideas and thoughts that come
to your mind at all hinds of inconvenient
times . , . formulae and equations . . . blue-
prints,. diagrams, plans, etc. . . . music . . .
foreign languages . . . lists of things in correct
order , . . important points from lectures, tc.vt-
hooks and trade journals . . . ANYTHING
AT ALL that you particularly want to re-
member.
If you are jeriously interested in learning
further details, the coupon below is for your
convenience. Literature comes to you in a
plain, sealed envelope . . . your inquiry is
treated as confidential . . . places you under
no obligation whatsoever. Do, please, be so
kind as to PRINT your name and FULL
ADDRESS—CLEARLY! (Write briefly, if you
prefer not to cut your copy of “The Bulletin.”)
To save time, please mail your inquiry to us
care of our G.P.O. Box number (Box 4578,
C.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W.).
“TRENT”
MIND and MEMORY
DEVELOPMENT PTY. LTD.
214 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Next Lyceum Theatre), and 61 Market
St., SYDNEY (Opposite Wool worths).
Phones: MA 5686, BM 6392, JB 4857.
Written
Guarantee
with >,
every ,
Course.
The Secretary,
“TRENT” MIN'D AND MEMORY DEYEEOPMENT TTY. LTD.,
Box 4578, G.P.0.,. SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.
I am genuinely interested in your course of instruction and would
like to receive, without obligation, full details.
MR., MRS., MISS, DR., REV!
ADDRESS
Bin. 10H8


WALKING HOME
By JACK LUSBY
We’ve all walked home,
some lime or other.
For exercise or
through necessity. No
bus, no tram, no taxi and/or
no cash.
I remember, back in the
depresh.-years, tossing my last
zack in the air, heads it’s a
meat-pie and walk home to
Coogee, tails it’s ride home in
luxury in a tram. Hungry.
Yes, hungry. We’ve all done
that.
Now we’ll abandon fact foi
fiction. You can’t debunk
fiction. And this is a short-
story. Not a documentary.
You also can’t better Cecil
Mann’s phrase, “The lazy
crash of the surf!” This tale is
about the lazy crash of a serf.
Me.
1942. Bob and I were coming
home after a Western Desert
do in a brace of Kittyhawks.
We weren’t jinking about and
looking about. We felt too
damn’ tired. We were flying
straight for home.
Home was Marble Arch, 300
miles north-east of our
shadows on the sand, and 250
miles west of Benghazi, about
halfway along that dip in the
coast-line of North Africa.
Bob’s prop was fanning my
starboard wing-tip—he was hot
on formation. We were
coming home low and straight
at 2000 ft.
Coming home! Did that feel
good! Six of us had run into
18. There’s Bob and me
coming home. Just luck! Ray
and Mick and Bill and Jackie
were better pilots, I think, but
Bob and I were coming home.
And feeling over-confident.
Pride before the fall.
I was idly watching the sand-
ridges heaving under our keels
when there came a loud,
expensive clatter. Two prop.-
blades stuck still in front of
me like buffalo-horns.
I called Bob on the V.H.F.
“Look, no noise!”
“Me, too,” he said.
We jerked our heads round
and saw the two Messerschmitts
going ‘up like sandy-colored
raindrops in reverse.
When the Kitties stopped
bouncing on the Sahara sand
we very quickly spread our
overalls beside them to look like
men and galloped 400yds. away
in case the sandy-colored rain-
drops came back.
They didn’t. They were
satisfied.
“Well,” said Bob, “I’ve
walked home from racecourses.
Got your water-bottle virgo
intaoto ? Let’s start! Eiwah!”
T ater that day El Senussi
met us. We remembered
from our learning-Latin school-
days that El Senussi were a
mob that Caesar couldn’t beat.
Tall Arabs with scarves around
their heads to keep the
khamsin s fine dust out of
mouths and nostrils. Proud and
arrogant men of the desert.
We showed them our goolie-
chits: “This man is a British
officer. You will be paid well
for helping him:” Written in
Arabic.
In English it said: “Don’t
look at their women. Expect
only two meals a day. Moya
means water. Mungaria means
food. To survive walking home
in the desert, take it easy. Good
luck.”
On the third day Achmet el
Senussi said: “With you I can
go no further. East of here it’s
Bedouin country. And some
Bedouins are in the pay of El
Germani. May Allah protect
you.”
Bob scratched a chit:
“Achmet el Senussi has helped
us for three days”; and signed
it.
As good as a cheque on the
Bank of England.
Achmet knew where to take
the chit —to a British officer at
a certain sheik’s tomb. Officer
posing as an Arab. His job was
to cash these chits. There were
Germans doing the same thing.
A toss-up.
Our toss on this, the third
day, decided that we avoid
Arabs. By day we lay still in
the scant shade of camel-thorn
and by night walked by the
stars. The friendly stars.
A war-correspondent wrote
a book called Only the Stars
are Neutral. Dead wrong. The
stars are cobbers.
the fifth day we came on
the remains of an Italian
outpost. A bomb had hit it
dead-centre. What interested
us most, at first, was an Alfa-
Romeo car on its back. Right-
side-up and repaired, it meant
transport.
We tried but lacked the
energy. We were running out
of energy. Walking empty-
bellied on sand uses it up quick.
There was also a busted
piano, its entrails hanging out
like the Itie stiffs lying about.
Bob said, “Look! Two strings
left! Bottom-C and bottom-
G! ” He passed the time pluck-
ing sad music from the piano.
Later in this fifth day Bob,
an inveterate forager, went
foraging in the scattered
wreckage. I lay in the scant
shade of the Alfa-Romeo.
“Hey, look here!” he sang
out. “Tomato-juice!”
About two-dozen cans un-
busted. I got a bayonet off a
defunct conscripto and began
perforating cans, and we drank
about a gallon of vitamin-B (or
whatever it is in tomato-juice).
It was close-up sundown. We
lay down and relaxed, waiting
for the tomato-juice to work
and give us the energy to roll
the Alfa-Romeo right-side-up.
At dusk we had a crack at
it, but still lacked the strength.
On the morning of the sixth
day we were feeling a bit better.
Bob went foraging again and
struck oil.
“You wouldn’t believe it,”
he said. “Cognac!”
There were 11 unbroken
bottles half-covered with sand.
\\7e split the first bottle and
’ ’ were feeling almost
courageous. Then we heard
the German corning down.
He’d sighted us, and fell
out of the sky like a wedge-tail
eagle.
Messerschmitt.
“Under the car!” I said.
“Pig's bottom,” Bob said.
“Stand up and let him see our
flying-togs!”
“You’ve got great faith in the
Luftwaffe,” I said as we stood
to attention.
The Jerry came at us at an
altitude of 10ft., doing about
350. Thumb on gun-button,
I suppose.
The desert war was a clean
war. As he passed us he waved
a glove. Meant “Have some-
one pick you up.”
Then he went straight up
where he’d come from. A gent.
Noon the seventh day we
saw the scout-car coming. We
were almost, but not quite, out
of tomato-juice.
He pulled up beside us and
said, “Hullo, chaps—Aussie?”


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
several seconds, then stealthily
approached again.
The slow advances and rapid
retreatings were still going on
when darkness hid them.
r T"HE morning saw Bambi
asleep in a corner of the
aviary. He had never slepTon
the ground before. In his box,
a round ball of soft fur, bliss-
fully slept the usurper.
Strange sounds now came
from the aviary at night:
frequent clickings and sudden
high-pitched squeals. A moon-
light night revealed the pattern:
timidly-cheeky approaches by
Bambi; swift, sharp-clawed
and vocal rebuffs from his
reluctant bride.
This continued for 17 nights.
On the 18th —well, in the morn-
ing there were two round balls
of fur side-by-side in the sleep-
ing box.
Just three weeks the honey-
moon lasted; then the real
rumpus started. In the previous
skirmishes the lady could have
been called “cranky” ; now she
was positively savage. Bambi
was viciously evicted; the
corner on the damp ground
became his sleeping-quarters
again.
Hope, however, apparently
springs eternal in even the
marsupial breast: Bambi still
tried wooing, clicking sounds,
but they were quickly changed
to screams and snorts as he
leapt madly from bough to
wire, wire to rafter, to escape
from the squealing, scratching,
biting fury of his mate. The
sounds of strife could be heard
a hundred yards away, and at
all hours of the night.
It did seem, however, that a
state of passive hostility might
at length be reached. Bambi
still clicked—but only in a
vocal sense.
September 15, just three
months and one week from
the nuptial night, the bride
began to lick at her pouch
(incidentally, the pouch-opening
runs up and down, not cross-
wise as is generally thought).
She seemed rather mopey.
At dusk Bambi approached.
No blotto husband ever got
such a reception from a she-
wowser. It was fiendish.
A judicial separation was
necessary in the name of
mercy. I offered the mother
to the young fellow who had
taken the joey. He wasn’t
interested—not a bit. The joey
had found a hole in its com-
partment, got in with the
budgerigars, and had not only
killed six of them but had
eaten all but the wings of four.
A possum leaving bananas
and oranges to eat meat! It
was about as feasible as saying
a sheep would kill and eat
rabbits. And yet I was shown
definite proof.
I built another aviary and
segregated Bambi from his
turbulent spouse.
Towards the end of Septem-
ber the joey could be seen in
the pouch. Bambi had become
a father at the age of 14 years.
Toey came out of the pouch
J a fortnight later. The
delightful picture of cute baby
and doting mother was re-
enacted exactly as it had been
with Bambi, 14 years before.
But another 14-year-old
memory kept bobbing up dis-
quieteningly.
The baby grew steadily ; a
pretty little creature, light in
color like its father. At six
months old it was almost
fully-grown. And still the pair
slept and ate side by side in
perfect harmony.
Enlightenment came to me:
Obviously a mother possum
only turned on her baby when
it was a male. It seemed the
logical explanation. Then, one
night early in May, terrified
screams from the possums’ cage
awoke me. She was at it again.
Strangely, the mother
allowed her daughter to sleep
in the wide sleeping-box,
though at the farthest end, but
the moment dusk came she
began her night of systematic
cruelty.
I delayed action in the hope
that the mating-urge would
pass and harmony reign again ;
but it was wishful-thinking.
The screams of the pursued and
the thumpings as the snorting,
savage mother leapt to the
attack resounded night after
night.
What remedy? Release the
mother in the bush? No ; she
had no fear of man ; the first
youth with a pea-rifle would
kill her —or, worse still, some
wretch of. humanity would
catch and use her to train a
greyhound on . . ,
T was preparing to build yet
another aviary when a Boy
Scout came around on a “Bob-
a-job” mission. He asked me
wistfully would I sell him a
possum—he had 3s. Bd. saved-
up. I offered to give him the
mother. He looked longingly
at the baby. I wanted to keep
the baby and tame her; but
when kids look like that . . .
And now they live in their
separate domiciles: the eternal
female who just couldn’t gel
on with anyone, including her
own daughter; and the male
who lived in happy celibacy
for 14 years, then eagerly threw
it all away for three weeks of
domestic bliss followed by
months of particular hell.
Perhaps there’s a moral in it.
I make no comment. My wife
may read this.
“Yes —care for a tomato-
juice and a cognac?”
“Thanks. You seem to have
set yourselves up in a degree
of luxury here.”
“Any more luxurious,” said
Bob, “we couldn’t stand it.”
“Cliche,” said the visitor,
downing his cognac.
“Care for a lift?” he said.
“Who are you?” 1 said.
“Matter of interest.”
“Long-range Desert Group.”
In cars with machine-guns
they hunted Jerries similarly
accoutred.
In aircraft parked round
Jerry ’dromes they planted
delayed-action bombs at night.
They picked up walking-
homers. Long-range Desert
Group.
“In case I get knocked and
one of you has to drive, let's
stare for a moment at the
map,” he said.
TIE produced his silk escape-
map and spread it on the
sand.
“We’re about 200 miles
south-west of Marble Arch
and 400 from Benghazi. There
are Italians and there are Ger-
mans ; 40-mile gap between
•’em. We go through the gap
tonight when the dark hides
our dust. O.K?”
“O.K„ Have another
cognac?”
“Of course. One for the
road.”
“How did you know we
were here?”
“Message from a Flun.”
“Messerschmitt from Burat
el Sun?” said Bob.
“Yes.”
“Good crowd there.”
“Yes. Not bad.”
“When you’re through get-
ting sentimental about the
enemy,” I said, “can we get
started for home?”
“Of course, old boy. Chuck
the rest of the cognac aboard
and we’re off.”
' Four a.m. the eighth morning
we passed between the Ities
and the Germans and at sun-
rise hit the Tripoli Road near
El Agheila. Took the road west
to Marble Arch.
Where the sand was hard
our chauffeur drove at 100
kilos p.h. Bob hung on -to the
machine-gun. I’ve forgotten
what kept me aboard. Now
and then the car shifted on the
sand as the wind got under
her. We felt we were being
driven by a madman. I think
our feelings were reasonably
accurate.
At Marble Arch the car
turned left off the road and
drove a couple of hundred
yards along the mine-free tape
to the squadron mess-tent. The
Boss was sitting in there in a
stick-and-canvas chair.
“Where have you truants
been?” he said.
“Dorothy Dorothy Dean,”
sang Bob. “Up in a flying-
machine.”
“Can we bring our driver in
for a drink?” says me.
“Yes, if he’s thirsty.”
The driver came in. The
Boss studied him for a moment,
then leapt to his feet.
“Not Brigadier Simpson-
Srnith?”
“That’s the name.”
First time we’d been given a
lift by a D. 5.0., M-C. and
Bar.
These days I can’t afford to
buy cognac—but occasionally
I drink tomato-juice with
reverence.


Costs ore the Stumbling-block
Chemicals From Coal
The idea of producing all manner
of substances from coal is one
that has long appealed to men
of science and men of imagina-
tion, though in more recent years the
scientists have cooled-off towards the
proposition and most of the advocacy
has come from laymen. Two years ago,
however, three scientists of the School
of Chemical Engineering at the N.S.W.
University of Technology Associate
Professor R. Klar, Dr. R. H. Buchanan
and Dr. G. H. Roper —issued what they
called a Pre-project Report on “Coal as
a raw material in the Australian chemi-
cal industry.” This- report raised hopes
in many quarters that a market might
be found lor a greatly increased coal-
output ; also that a big saving might
be effected in unnecessary imports of
petroleum-products and chemicals.
The report claimed that a chemical
industry based on coal would reduce
imports by considerably more than £5O
million. It further envisaged an increase
in exports and said that
in addition, the large-scale output of fer-
tilisers, plastics, synthetic textiles, rubber
and other chemicals would improve the
standard of living, partially relieve the coal-
mining difficulties caused by overproduc-
tion and high tiansport costs and lessen the
dependence of our secondary industries on
overseas supplies of basic and inter-
mediate chemicals.
This was a rather attractive picture, and
it brought a glow to the hearts of many
non-scientific friends of the coal industry
who had for years been urging, with an
enthusiasm based more on faith than on
knowledge, that the salvation of the coal-
fields Jay in the establishment of a
chemicals-from-coal industry.
Grandfather’s Pipe-dreams
Only a few months before the issue
of the report the Miners’ Federa-
tion president, W. Parkinson, had asked
Canberra for a tax on refined oil, the
proceeds to be set aside “for the develop-
ment of chemical plants for the extrac-
tion of by-products from coal.” This
brought from Professor Hunter, of the
Department of Chemical Engineering at
the Sydney University, the comment that
“the pipe-dream of our grandfathers that
an important industry could be developed
from the extraction of chemicals from
coal disappeared with the hansom-cab
and gas-lighting”:
Coal chemicals, apart from acetylene
made from carbide, are. effectively, chemicals
made from coal-tar. In actual fact, very
few chemicals in modern use are obtained
exclusively from coal-tar. The majority of
chemicals in wide use today can be prepared
from either coal-tar or petroleum, and in
a highly competitive market petroleum as
a source-material for this purpose has
enormous advantages.
It appears from the professor’s state-
ment that Parkinson was asking for the
more economic source of certain chemi-
cals to be taxed in order to encourage
the production of the same chemicals
from a less economic source. This is
the essence of the whole problem of
extracting chemicals from coal. It was
long ago demonstrated that hundreds, if
not thousands, of substances could be
derived from coal. What the chemicals-
from-coal advocates have to prove, if
they wish to get anywhere, is that these
substances can be derived from coal
more cheaply than, or at least as cheaply
as, from any other source. Specifically,
since oil-refining is now an established
Australian industry, they must show
that coal can provide the chemicals more
cheaply than petroleum.
Investigation
With this in mind the Joint Coal
Board set-up a committee to investi-
gate the suggestions made in the Pre-
project Report. It included representa-
tives of the Coal Board, the N.S.W.
Government, the collieries, the C.5.1.R.0.
and the chemical-engineering depart-
ments of Sydney University and the
N.S.W. University of Technology. The
committee has been functioning for 18
months, and its approach to the problem
is that so long as no oil is found in
Australia this country must “think con-
tinuously in terms of oil and chemicals
from coal. This thinking must be backed
by a well-planned programme of research
and development designed to carry out
work here on a gradually increasing scale
and to keep in close touch with develop-
ments elsewhere.”
Splitting its task in two, the com-
mittee formed two working-groups, one
•of which was instructed to investigate
the practicability of burning char under
boilers —char being the carbon remain-
ing after the coal-tar and some of the
volatiles have been drawn-off ; the other
to study “The economic value of low-
temperature tar as compared with
petroleum-crudes.”
Last month the committee’s report,
embodying the findings of the two
working-groups, was published. The
report of the char group can scarcely
be described as wildly enthusiastic. True,
it says that “it can be stated with reason-
able certainty that boilers having a
capacity within the range of 100,0001 b.
to 2-million lb. of steam per hour can
be designed to bum low-temperature
char produced from selected N.S.W.
bituminous coals.” But it goes on to
warn that, as a power-station must be
assured of a continuous supply of fuel,
“it would appear that a boiler designed
to use coal, char and gas would be
necessary.” This could increase the cost
of a boiler by 20-25 per cent. Moreover,
the information available on the quality
and characteristics of char from N.S.W.
coals is insufficient; more factual data
would be required “before boiler-design
could be contemplated or accurate cost-
estimates prepared.”
Coal-tar as Fuel
As to crude low-temperature tar for
fuel-oil, the second working-group
found that no extensive market for it
existed in Australia; the only outlet
seemed to be as open-hearth furnace-fuel.
Investigations showed that the B.H.P,
used about 90,000 tons of fuel-oil a year
in open-hearth furnaces and that there
might be advantages in replacing this
with coal-tar —the co. was favorable to
the idea. It seemed to the group that
large-scale utilisation of coal-tar as a
chemical raw material was “many years
in the future” and would require much
research and pilot-plant development-
work. They were more optimistic about
the feasibility of using the tar as a feed-
stock for production of motor-spirit,
diesel-oil and kerosene.
The group’s conclusion was that it was
worth-while undertaking a more accurate
cost-study of a low-temperature fluidised
carbonisation-process integrated with a
coal- and char-burning power-station.
Discussing the possibility of combining
the design and erection of a carbonisation
plant with one of the projected new
power-stations in N.S.W., the commit-
tee said that the Vale’s Point station on
Lake Macquarie was scheduled for com-
pletion too soon for this to be considered,
but that it might be possible, if economic
investigations justified it, to incorporate
such a plant with a station to be com-
pleted in about 1965.
The committee did not recommend
any expenditure on local pilot-plants,
but thought quicker and cheaper results
could be obtained by sending small
parcels of coal for treatment at existing
pilot plants in America —the U.S. Bureau
of Mines having agreed to co-operate to
this end.
In issuing the committee’s report the
Federal Minister for National Develop-
ment, Senator Spooner, and the N.S.W.
Minister for Mines, Mr. J. B. Simpson,
said that the report made it clear that
there is at present no process by which
the scheme discussed in the Pre-project
Report could be immediately installed
as an economic proposition in N.S.W.;
there is no foundation for extravagant
claims for a large-scale industry involving
many millions of pounds.
The Ministers are prepared to have
inquiries made abroad by the chief
engineer of the Coal Board and the chief
engineer of the N.S.W. Electricity Com-
mission. Further tests will be considered
in the light of these inquiries. Any gains
to the coal-industry will have to be
long-term gains; there is no prospect
of any short-term benefits. All of which
brings us back to the starting-point—
when it comes to producing chemicals
anything coal can do petroleum can do
cheaper, and the coalmen still have the
task of reversing this precept.


BUD PATCHES
Hair grown' secret formula
Sacred Eastern Oils. Rarely
falls. Treats Alopecia. Leading
broadcaster’s hair grown after
years of Baldness. Effective
treatment for dandruff (Basic
cause of nearly all hair sick-
ness). and stops falling hair.
My herbal treatment restores
grey hair to original colour.
Not a dye—not Injurious, not
obvious Names given of lead-
ing citizens (with their per-
mission) who gratefully testify.
My treatment used in privacy
of your home.
For free advice write—
MRS. A. EASTON,
Box 5204, G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
First of the Guineas
Regarded mostly as a suc-
cessful sprinter before his im-
pressive win last Saturday in
the Canterbury Guineas (9
furlongs 47yds.), Prince Ker-
dieil might well stay the rnile-
and-a-half journey and make
it tough for opponents in the
A.J.C. Derby. Sydney’s three-
year-olds seem a moderate
bunch, and unless Melbourne
comes to light with a challenger
or two of strong staying
ability the classic could go to
a galloper with no form of
particular note. If Prince
Kerdieil comes successfully
through his Rosehill Guineas
test he’ll be Derby favorite.
On breeding, anyway, there
seems nothing to stop Prince
Kerdieil winning the blue
riband. His sire, High Caste,
chased Reading home in both
Derbys in 1939, and also in
the V.R.C. St. Leger, and High
Caste won the mile-and-three-
quarters King’s Plate, and in
three successive years (1939-40-
41) the V.R.C.’s C. B. Fisher
Plate (ly mile). High Caste had
35 race wins. Lady Kerdieil,
dam of the Guineas winner,
is by Midson from Princess
Lee by Caledon (imp.) or
Legionaire (imp.) from Freda
Webber by Air Balloon. Last-
named was a top stayer in
England, winning to 2\ miles.
He sired Balloon King, winner
of the 1930 Victoria Derby.
Prince Kerdieil —who, by
the way, had as a two-year-old
beaten older horses in Welter
company at Canterbury—was
capably handled in his Guineas
win by veteran jockey C. Kelly,
who’s riding in grand form.
Kelly carried out trainer Bob
Stuart’s instructions to hold
the colt back for a final burst
in the straight, which tactics
owner W. H. Duffy also
favored. The stable threw-in
for a tidy win, the colt having
shown the right race-form in
addition to a near-record track
gallop (six furlongs in 1.15 on
the centre of the Rosebery
course proper) four days before
the race.
• • • •
Few outside the Pat Murray
Randwick stable gave New
Farm much chance in the
Second Ashbury Stakes at
Canterbury, but a lead was
given when the three-year-old
gelding’s price tumbled from
twelves to second-favoritism at
5 to 1. It was a first-up run
for New Farm, but he landed
the money in good style. He
was a brilliant two-year-old,
and won a race at Randwick
by half-a-dozen lengths. On
Saturday he easily defeated the
“ Yes — he's killed three jockeys.”
favorite, Winchester. Later in
the day Murray won the Third
Ashbury with Jester (both
winners ridden by Camer).
Jester has now won at three
of his last four starts.
Some punters win money un-
expectedly. For example,
trainer Fred Hood fancied
Lecture, 40-to-l shot for the
event New Farm w’on. Fred and
friends backed the filly both
straight-out and each way on
the tote. Lecture was never
a hope, and finished in the
ruck. However, she was
bracketed with 50-to-l Bilfred
on the tote* and that gelding,
with George Mulley in the
saddle, finished third, and the
bracket paid 6 to 1 place-
tote. The Lecture punters
hadn’t heard of Bilfred until he
bobbed-up for them, nor had
anybody else —Bilfred having
previously started only once, to
run unplaced in Maiden class
at Wagga. That was in
December last, in weak com-
pany. Bilfred’s now a six-year-
old, and still a maiden.
• •. • •
Had Coal secured a clear run
in the straight her backers for
the Canterbury Park Handicap
would have collected —she was
probably the best of good things
beaten at the meeting. How-
ever, the winner, Tranquilette,
has been successful at three of
her last four starts, and must
now enter seriously into calcu-
lations for the Metropolitan, in
which she has a handy weight,
7.9. On Saturday she carried
Bst., her handicap reduced to
that by a 51b. allowance for
apprentice A. Bawden. She has
won at a mile-and-a-half. The
Metrop. (run at Randwick
on October 6) is at 13 furlongs,
and Tranquilette should cer-
tainly not be troubled by the
extra furlong.
Coal also figures in the
weights for the Metropolitan,
her 7.1 only lib. above the
minimum. She has won at 10|
furlongs. On the dam’s side
she’s related to Amounis (Caul-
field Cup) and Piastre (Mel-
bourne Cup), so she should stay
the Metrop. course.
; • *<] • •
Making his reappearance
after a spell of four months
from racing, sprinter Cornelius
showed plenty of dash in the
Canterbury Flying, and maybe
it won’t be long before he adds
to his winning tally. He was
a smart two-year-old winner
in good company.
* * *
Sydney racing returns to
Randwick next Saturday, when
Tattersall’s Club will hold its
£2OOO Chelmsford Stakes meet-
ing. Other races on the pro-
gramme expected to throw
some light on the Epsom and
Metropolitan include the
£l5OO Tramway Handicap, the
£l5OO Spring Handicap and
the £lOOO Welter Mile.
The 16 entrants for the
Chelmsford included the best
horses in training, but as some
of the three-year-olds raced
at Canterbury last Saturday
the field will be smaller than
usual. Tulloch seemed to be
right back to his best last
week, following his slight set-
back, and a clash between him,
Wiggle and Prince Darius
would attract a great crowd to
Randwick.
• • • - •
One thing that makes the
Chelmsford specially attractive
is that, unlike many w.-f.-a.
races, it is always run with
the pace clapped on from the
start. It has been a fast con-
test over the years, and in it
two seasons ago Advocate made
the Australian-record time of
1.49| for the nine furlongs,
defeating Caranna and Somer-
set Fair. Last year Prince
Darius ran 1.49 J-, and other
fast times have been Prince
Cortauld’s 1.49 f and Delta’s
1.49 J-. Delta (1952) was the
first winner of the Chelmsford
to break 1.50, but back in
1924 Heroic (8.2) ran 1.50|
when he defeated Gloaming
(9.8) and Wallace Mortlake.
Most of the Epsom candi-
dates will appear at Tatter-
sail’s spring race-fixture, with
the main ones, as usual, in the
Tramway Handicap. Last year
this race was won by Landy,
and he started at 5 to 2 in the
Epsom, but third was the best
he could manage. Indeed,
though the Tramway is always
regarded as a guide, the only
winners of both it and the
Epsom since 1939 have been
High Law (1952), De la Salle
(1948) and Shannon (1945).
• * • •
When studmaster at Sled-
mere, Scone (N.S.W.), M. V.
Point secured a number of well-
bred English mares for his
stud. There was a further


start the day right!
»>
i^ v
*.v»**?
SH
CB6M”
mm
Circular Chari* for all tyP*>
of Recording ln»lrument>
for iriy cUtt of Machinery
or Equipment
MITER CHARTS a Sprcfa'if
ACCURACY GUARANTEED
j4dMero*suuivAN%t«
QUEEN STREET, BRISOAMF
addition to the w'inners they
have produced when Royal
Bloom scored at the Canter-
bury Park midweek fixture.
Owmed and trained in New-
castle (he is one of Frank
Grisdale’s team). Royal Bloom
won impressively, as he w»as
hampered when starting his
final dash. He defeated the
favorite, Judicare, and Radius
(another Newcastle gelding,
trained by Ray Cashman).
Royal Bloom is bv Royal Em-
pire (imp.) from Dark Bloom
(imp.).
* * *
Good Victorians
Racing at Caulfield last
Saturday showed that Victoria
this season has at least one
genuine w.-f.-a. star, and per-
haps the best crop of fillies
and three-vear-old colts and
geldings for many years.
Quite the best of many top-
class runs on the day was
Lord’s win in the Memsie
Stakes. Prior to the Memsie
nobody doubted that Lord was
an exceptional sprinter; the
doubt remained whether he
could get better than seven
furlongs. The w.-f.-a. Memsie
was a nine-furlongs affair, and
Geoff Lane on Lord made sure
it would be a true middle-
distance test by riding his
mount at a fast pace from
barrier-rise. The four-year-old
Targui gelding was always
travelling comfortably at or
near the lead, and in the run
home finished better than any-
thing else to win easing-up by
24 lengths. The time. 1.51 f,
was good on the well-grassed
track. Course record is 1.49 J.
The Memsie was Lord's
ninth win from 19 starts ; his
stake-earnings are £9825. For
owner W. R. Kemball the
Memsie has been a successful
race. He won it with Ellerslie
in 1951, and with Coppice in
1954 and 1955.
♦ • * *
Two other performances in
the Memsie are worth remem-
bering. The camera split
Young Idealist and Lord Gavin
in the minor placings, and
trainer Jack Godby considered
Young Idealist’s run good
enough to warrant a start in
the Epsom. Lord Gavin will
certainly improve it was
obvious he was carrying too
much condition. Winner of
the Moonee Valley Cup last
spring and the mile w.-f.-a.
Lloyd Stakes in the autumn,
he's a first-class galloper, and
trainer “Bon” Hoysted has high
hopes of winning this year's
Caulfield Cup with him.
There's no doubt now that
Sir Blink will go to Sydney
for the A.J.C. Derby. In the
open - company Heatherlie
Handicap at Caulfield the Blue
Coral colt showed that he has
regained his autumn form when
he overcame a bad barrier
position and ill-luck in run-
ning to snatch a photo, win
from a good-class field. Sir
Blink’s programme takes in
the Rosehill Guineas next
Saturday week. The colt is
inclined to drop out of his
races until the last couple of
furlongs; however, he’s very
good, and it w'ould not sur-
prise Melbourne people if he
made the Guineas a winning
stepping-stone to the Derby.
Chief Wongo was not
advanced enough for the
Heatherlie, but he’s one to
watch in handicap events from
now on. Summalu ran right
up to his good form at the
Valley the previous week. He
was unlucky to strike Sir Blink
on the day the' colt hit top
form, and it was only by an
inch or two that he went under.
If he makes the trip Summalu
will have a real chance in next
month’s Metropolitan.
In 12 starts the Empyrean
colt Planetoid has never run
out of a place : and he proved
just how’ good a sprinter he is
in the open-company six-
furlongs Whittier Handicap at
Caulfield. The race marked
the reappearance of the bril-
liant grey youngster Misting.
In their two-year-old year
Misting was too speedy for
Planetoid, but on Saturday he
could not break away from the
Empyrean colt, and at the
finish weakened into third
place. Undoubtedly the run
will improve Misting, and
general opinion after the race
was that he will again have
the measure of Planetoid in
such races as the mile Caul-
field Guineas. That judgment
may prove right, but Planetoid
is a better colt now than ever
he was, and it will take a top-
class performance to beat him
in any three-year-old race up
to a mile.
Good as Wiggle is, if she
comes to Melbourne for the
classic events for fillies she
will find one of the local
youngsters extremely hard to
beat. That filly is But Beauti-
ful, who won the first heat of
the Glen Eira Handicap at the
Heath last Saturday with ridi-
culous ease. Full merit of But
Beautiful’s three-lengths win
can be appreciated when it is
remembered that she carried
9.7 and was racing first-up
from a five-months’ spell. She
has now raced eight times, for
four wins and four second-
placings. Her owner, V.R.C.
committeeman H. G. Ray-
mond, thinks so highly of But
Beautiful that he has ideas of
starting the filly in the Caul-
field Cup, in which she has
only 7.0. By the good English
sprinter Paramount, she in-
herits staying blood from her
dam, Beau Etoile, who was by
Beau Cheval, a son of Beau
Pere.
* * *
Trots
A freak accident put 7-to-4
favorite Lancedale out of the
race in the First Qualifying
Stakes at Harold Park last
Friday night, driver F. W.
Matthews being thrown out of
the gig in a bit of a mix-up
with Wise Leader, 50yds. from
the start —both horses were
galloping at the time. At the
start Ray’s Wonder had locked
wheels with Wonder Scott,
losing considerable ground,
but, hard driven in the final
lap, looked a certain winner
two furlongs from home,
where he then closely trailed
Pronto Globe. A ding-dong
race up the straight left the
rest of the field far back, with
Ray’s Wonder half-a-head to
the good. It was eight lengths
back to third horse Wonder
Scott.
In the Rose Bay Handicap
Midnight Miss (favorite at 5
to 2, after being sensationally
backed from 14 to 1) lost all
chance when she was involved
in a scrimmage causing her to
drop back from a handy third
to near the rear of the field.
Driver Caffyn pulled her out
in the last lap, and she came
home very determinedly to
finish third, three lengths
behind Flingo, who failed by
a long neck to catch Shy
Sheila. Stewards later fined
Laurie Moulds, driver of
Flingo, £lO for having caused
the interference by crossing the
field too quickly.
• • • •
Consistent pacer Maestro's
Melody (driver F. Shinn) made
himself eligible for the open
fast-class handicaps when he
easily won the Flarold Park
Handicap from Bondi John
and New Memory. Starting a
hot favorite at 7 to 4 on,
Maestro’s Melody was slow to
begin and settled down on the
rails, fifth. Nearing the bell
he moved up to second and
ran clean away in the final lap
for a comfortable win.
* * *
Canada Cup
“Frangeo” tees-up for a bit
of golfing history:
The Canada Cup, to be played
for in Mexico in November and
set down for Australia next year,
is fast becoming the Davis Cup of
golf. Teams tconsisting of two
men) from all over the world now
play-off each year for the Cup; 32
nations are to compete for this
year’s trophy.
The Canada Cup was thought-up
in 1953 by the late John J. Hopkins,
president of the U.S. firm of
General Dynamics Corp., which
invented the atom-powered sub-
marine Nautilus.
Australian teams have so far
fared well, and in 1954, in Canada,
the Cup was won by Peter Thomson
and K.el Nagle.
Thomson has represented Aus-
tralia every year, being partnered
by Nagle (twice —1954-55), Ossie
Pickworth (1953), Norman Von
Nida (1956) and Bruce Crampton
(1957). This year Frank Phillips
will be Thomson’s partner.
The first two Cup contests were
held in Canada (1953-54), Washing-
ton (U.S.A.) had the honor in 1955,
Wentworth (England) staged the ’56
tourney, and last year the event
was held in Tokyo.
In 1953 Argentina won; in 1954,
as staled, Australia topped the list;
in 1955 U.S.A., represented by Ed
Furgol and E. Harbert, took it out;
in 1956 U.S.A. won again—this time
it was Ben Hogan and Sam Snead;
and in 1957 the Japanese Torakichi
Nakamura and Koichi Ono gave
cause for some home-town cele-
brations. The two Japs amazed
their rivals with dazzling golf.
* * *
The 1958 Australian pro-
fessional golf-championship,
played at Kooyonga (S.A.), was
won by Kel Nagle, of N.S.W.,
who downed Eric Cremin
(N.S.W.), six up with five to


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO MRS. JESSIE BIRD.—TAKE
notice that cecil claude bird
has filed a Petition for Divorce -No.
2113 of 1958 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you desire to de-
fend you may enter-an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
the 17th day of November 1958 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
'"flee from MESSRS. WHITFIELD
DAVLS & CO., Solicitors, of LOS John
i-treet Singleton or from their town
agents, MESSRS. GOULD & SHAW. Soli-
Sydn t ' y - J
BY APPOINTMENT
TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS,
JOHN WALKER ft SONS LTD.
BORN 1820 —STILL GOING STRONG
JOHNNIE
WALKER
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
-
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
i
JW.190.12
play. Nagle also won the
title in 1949 and 1955. In the
semi-finals Nagle disposed of
South African Harold Henning,
while Cremin beat the other
Springbok, Gary Player. The
Australian amateur foursomes
title went to N.S.W-, Harry
Berwick and Peter Langham
tossing Jones and Digney
(W.A.) and Hattersley and Pix
(N.S.W.), who tied for second.
* * *
Two Tests in N.Z.—At
Christchurch in the second
Rugby Union Test, Australia
surprised N.Z. 6-3, after lead-
ing 3-0 at half-time; both
teams scored a try, with full-
back Curley’s penalty-goal
making the difference. Curley
was the best back on the field,
winger Morton’s try was a gem,
and Australia’s front-row trio
stood-out among the forwards.
N.Z. had given Australia a
Rugby lesson in the first Test,
25-3 At Blenheim, in the
third and final hockey Test,
Australia defeated N.Z. 3-2.
The first Test was a nil- all
draw, while N.Z. won the
second Test by Australia’s
winning third-Test margin, 3-2.
* * *
In the first semi-final of
Sydney’s Rugby Union, St.
George put East out, 8-3. Only
one try was scored in the game,
by St. George winger Weir,
who made a determined run
after a blind-side move by half-
back Sadler a few minutes
from the end. When St.
George had beaten East 3-0 a
few weeks back Weir had then
also been the only trygetter,
with a long run for the line
after an intercept just before
the bell. Both these games
were close and tight, with the
two packs dominating play.
This Saturday it’s Manly and
Gordon.
* * *
In Sydney’s Rugby League
final, before a crowd of 39,132,
St. George narrowly defeated
Balmain 26-21, after leading
18-4 shortly after the interval.
Balmain fought back well, and,
with Barnes helping with six
goals in all, got within cooee ;
but the Saints, slightly the
better team and deserving their
win, held on to the lead. The
Tigers were far from disgraced.
It’s now St. George and West
in the “grand.”
* * *
The Bracken-Sands fight
wasn’t the only bit of stoush
in Melbourne at the weekend
—there was quite a variety of
left hooks and right crosses
thrown, both on and off the
field, at the M.C.G. on Satur-
day afternoon. Ostensibly Mel-
bourne and Collingwood were
playing football in the second
V.F.L. semi-final, and at times
in between the brawls and the
attacks on umpire Nash, most
unenvied man among the
77,000-odd at the ground
(attacks which were, by
courtesy of the police, verbal
only)— at times there was some
really good football, mainly
by Melbourne, which had five
straight goals on the board
before ’Wood even started.
Collingwood supporters have
for a w r hile been gnashing their
teeth over Nash, but on Satur-
day even Melbourne coach
Norm Smith flew at him over
something ; yet anyone at all
two-eyed must agree he did
as good a job as could be done.
Result of the football, Mel-
bourne Won 11.12-4.9, so
Collingwood must needs now
shape-up (not necessarily
literally) to North, winner to
play-off with Melbourne.
* * *
“Selja”: Sydney’s Australian
Rules premiership was won by
East for the sixth successive
year. It turned the tables on
West in the grand-final, 15.11-
8.11 —West had defeated East
three times through the season.
East thus equals the record of
Newtown, which won from
1945 to 1950 inclusive.
Winner of S.A.’s Magarey
Medal for 1958 was 22-year-
old West Torrens centreman
Lindsay Head, who had won
it in 1955. Runner-up to him
in both years has been Sturt
centreman John Halbert.
Former Davis Cup star Ken
McGregor came third —and he
missed a few games through
injury. Like “Mick” Aylett,
who won the Tassie Medal at
this year’s centenary carnival,
Head is also a Sheffield Shield
cricketer.
“Symonym”: Neil Roberts,
winner of the Brownlow Medal
(B. 3/9/’5B), is a 25-year-old
physical-culture demonstrator.
A week before, Roberts had
won the “Sporting Globe’
trophy, and football-writers, a
tough bunch, reached deep
down and came up with “mag-
nificent,” “unflinching,” “spec-
tacular” and even “graceful”
to praise his form for the
season. Roberts, who was in
this year’s carnival side, said
that running instead of swim-
ming during the summer had
hardened his muscles and
improved his football.
• • • •
“Bicky”: Only three V.F.L,
clubs have not won a premier-
ship—Hawthorn, North and
St. Kilda. The Saints, however,
have now produced three
Brownlow Medallists. Haw-
thorn and North are the only
two clubs that have so - far
missed-out on this coveted
award. '
* * *
“Regel”: Cricketer Roger
Hartigan’s death (B. 20/8/’5B)
recalls a then well-known tele-
gram. Chosen to play in the
1907-08 Test in Adelaide, and
knowing that he was wanted
in Brisbane for an important
wool auction, he wired his
employer for instructions. He
received a reply: “Stay as long
as you’re making runs.” When
he got out, at 116, after that
record 243 partnership with
Clem Hill, he returned to
Brisbane. Meanwhile his em-
ployer was showered with con-
gratulations, but he knew noth •
ing of the telegram until he
read abput it. *A friend had
sent it in his name.
* * *
At Melbourne Stadium last
Friday night, former Austra-
lian lightweight champion
George Bracken k.o.’d south-
paw Russell Sands in the
seventh round. It was one of
the. best fights seen at Mel-
bourne Stadium for a long
time. Up to the k.o. the two
had won three rounds each,
with Bracken just in front on
points. Bracken won the light-
weight title in December, 1956,
and lost it on July 4 this year
on a points decision to Max
Carlos, who is to fight welter-
weight Johnny Van Rensburg
in Melbourne this Friday.
Carlos and Sands fought a
terrific draw in a 12-round non-
title bout in Melbourne last
month.


QUEENSLAND
INSURANCE
Co. Ltd.
K
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE &
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies
throughout the World.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LESLIE JAMES WELLS late of
Eulo Street Cowra.—TAKE NOTICE
that JULIA MARY WELLS has Med a
Petition for Divorce No. 4461 of 1956
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in. the Divorce
Registry Supreme Couft Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by the 7th
November 1958 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
FRANCIS J. KEANE, Solicitor, of 12
Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO ALBERT GEORGE HARDING late
of South Grafton.—TAKE NOTICE that
NORMA CONSTANCE HARDING has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2818
of 1958 on the grounds of desertion for
three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney, by
the 17th day of November 1958 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from CHARLES GRIFFITHS,
Solicitor, 107-109 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney, New South Wales. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO MARY JOSEPHINE HOWARD late
of Abermain—TAKE NOTICE that
JAMES HENRY HOIVARD has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2476 of 1958
on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by the ■ 17th
day of November 1958 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from CHARLES GRIFFITHS, Solicitor,
107-109 Elizabeth Street. Sydney, New
South Wales.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
The Bulletin, September 10, 1958
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Copy of Frank Cridland’s
Sutherland (pub. Angus and Robert-
son). —6744.
To buy the following songs:
“Miss Hooligan's Christmas Cake”
and “Kosciusko.” —6743.
Does Anybody Know?
A writer in The Bulletin of
March 6, 1913, said of an old
couple that they remembered a great
deal of Old Sydney, and added:
“They remember ‘the bells on
Campbell's Wharf,’ and how long
they lay there —and why.” Can
anyone explain the reference to the
bells?
Information Sought
How did the opal town of
Lightning Ridge get its name ?
According to photographer-
author Frank Hurley, in an article
in “Walkabout” (May, 1940), a
succession of temperatures over the
century—common in that area of
north - west N.S.W. “generally
excites the heavens to spontaneous
combustion, and they explode with
vicious ferocity, stabbing the earth
with lightning shafts • as though
earth and sky would fuse together.
These ‘dry’ thunderstorms are not
infrequent around the Ridge, and
in bygone days such a display made
a barbecue of a mob of overland-
ing cattle, and the district received
its Christening.”
* * * *
What was Sir Thomas Playford’s
‘worry over Murray River water in
relation to the Snowy scheme?
The Snowy Mountains agreement
provides for a minimum quota of
water from the Murray and its
tributaries to benefit South Aus-
tralia; and “the flow of the Murray
at Albury” is to be shared equally
by Victoria and N.S.W., “subject to
any quantity agreed to be sent
down the river for riparian use
and for supply to South Australia.”'
On September 18 last year an agree-
ment was signed by the Prime
Minister and the Premiers of N.S.W.
and Victoria (the S.A. Government
was not invited to attend) on the
operation of the Snowy Mountains
scheme and on the distribution of
the power and water. The S.A.
Premier wants to ensure that his
State continues to get its share of
Murray water.
• * * *
How and when was Sydney
University founded?
Sydney University, the first in
Australasia, grew out of the Sydney
College. In 1849 the proprietors
petitioned the N.S.W. Legislative
Council to convert the college into
a university. In 1850 an Act pro-
vided for the appointment of a
“ Don't be too long with the lunch, dear, I'm hungry”
Senate of 16 Fellows and a grant
of £5OOO annually. Chairs in
classics, mathematics, chemistry and
experimental physics were founded
in 1851, and the University was
inaugurated in 1852. In 1855 a
block of 141| acres at Grose Hill
was dedicated for educational pur-
poses and provision made for four
colleges. St. Paul’s (C. of Ei.) was
founded in 1854, St. John’s (R.C.)
in 1857, St. Andrew’s (Presbyterian)
1867, Wesley (Methodist) 1910 ? and
the Women’s College (non-sectarian)
in 1894. The Teachers’ Training
College was opened in 1920.
* * * *
Some information on myxo-
matosis ? When was it introduced
to Australia, and how effective is it
today?
The standard virulent strain of
myxoma virus was first isolated
in Brazil, in 1911, and maintained
there until 1924, when it passed
to the Rockefeller Institute, New
York. From there it was taken
to England in 1934 and on to
Australia in 1936. Initial trials
were not promising, and it wasn’t
until 1950 that the first successful
release was made in Australia.
Death - rate among infected
animals during its initial spread
through the Australian rabbit-popu-
lation exceeded 99 per cent. The
virus then lost some of its “effective-
ness and by 1952 the mortality-rate
had dropped to about 90 per cent.
In 1951 the Australian National
University undertook a laboratory
study of the virus to obtain an
accurate estimate of the relative
virulence of the many strains of
virus involved. Professor F. J.
Fenner, Professor of Microbiology
at the University, developed a
method requiring only five labora-
tory rabbits for each test. Instead
of measuring the death-rate for leach
strain of virus, he simply measured
the average time that the test-
rabbits survived after inoculation
with the particular strain.
Average survival-time of rabbits
housed under standard laboratory
conditions and inoculated with the
virulent strain was 1D.9 days, and
all the animals died. An attenuated
strain recovered at Lake Urana in
southern N. S. Wales (strain
KM 13) had a mortality-rate of 90
per cent., and infected rabbits sur-
vived for an average of 25 days.
The great majority of strains
recovered in the field in Australia
between 1951 and 1956 resembled
this KM 13 strain.
Professor Fenner believes that
neither the original virulent strain
nor very attenuated strains are best
adapted to survive and spread
under Australian conditions. He
thinks that a strain of intermediate
virulence producing a moderately
protracted period of illness is likely
to prove most effective, having
regard to both capacity to spread
and killing-power. Such strains,
typified by strain KMI3, now pro-
duce a case-mortality rate of about
90 per cent, under field-conditions,
and result in an average survival-
time of about 25 days.
There is now evidence that suc-
cessive generations of rabbits
breeding from populations repeat-
edly reduced by myxomatosis have
become progressively more resistant
to the disease. This is due largely
to the dominance of slightly attenu-
ated strains such as KM 13. Many
more rabbits survive to breed after
infection with these strains.
Authorities agree that the one
sure way of slowing-down the
evolution of myxomatosis-resistant
rabbits is to destroy by conventional
methods as many as possible of
the rabbits that survive epidemics
of the disease.
* -* * *
Is it customary (o give a party
for a relative going abroad ? Do
guests bring presents?
It’s a pleasant and friendly thing
to do, but presents are incorrect —
most people going on a journey
want to store or pack their goods,
so that gifts are often cumbersome
and an embarrassment. Small per-
sonal gifts for travelling may be
given Individually, but not at the
party. The occasion ma_y be con-
cluded at a prearranged time, or by
a simple speech of bon voyage by
the host or hostess at supper.
Guest or guests reply briefly, and
“Auld Lang Syne” sung by the
assembled company is the usual
conclusion.


Divorce Notices
IK THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO JAMES HURLEY late of 332 Aber-
crombie Street Redfern. —TAKE NOTICE
that your wife MARGARET ELLIOTT
HURLEY has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. -3511 of 1957 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards and is
asking for the exercise of the Court’s
discretion under Section 19 (2) (a) of
the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by the 3rd November 1958
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. H. M.
SYMONDS & BRITTEN, Solicitors, 78
Macquarie Street, Parramatta. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN FRANCIS LUNN late of
Hotel Morrison, Stanley.jitreet, South
Brisbane, Queensland. —TAKE NOTICE
that CARLINE JOYCE LUNN has filed
a Petition No. 1130 of 1958 for Divorce
from you on the grounds of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
Tears and upwards and is asking for the
exercise of the Court’s discretion under
Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial
Causes Act, 1899 If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
12tli November 1958 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
S. J. BULL SON & SCHMIDT, Soli-
citors, 34 Martin Place, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
c ,
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LEONARD PEROIVAL RILEY late
care of Post Office, The Valley (Bris-
bane) Queensland.—TAKE NOTICE that
SHIRLEY LORETTE RILEY has filed
a Petition for Divorce Nd*. 957 of 1958
under Part 11 1a of the (Federal) Matri-
monial Causes Act 1945-1055 on the
grounds ©t desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
applying the law of New- South Wales
If you wish to defend you may ‘liter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by the 19th day of
November 1958 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. SMITHEKS, WARREN &
L\ONS, Solicitors, of 169 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
JkuiJi in ihe
>
Australia’s name is in the forefront today in the
world of sport.
It was very evident in Britain. My visit there
coincided with the Empire Games at Cardiff, where
the performance of our team was magnificent in
many fields.
This came soon after other Australians in
Britain had taken championship honours in golf
and tennis.
The wonder expressed on every side was that
a country of fewer than ten million people could
produce so many fine athletes.
It was a compliment which any Australian
would be bound to accept with feelings of patriotic
pride. But it seems to me that more is reflected
in this than the ability to win trophies and establish
new records.
Our sporting representatives are figures of
Australians as a people. They are living proof of
our capacity to win in the larger field of nation-
provided we give to our country the
determined effort the athlete gives to his training.
How does the champion at sport come up to
a peak of performance? Only by living to a rule
that demands exertion and sacrifice. There is no
escaping it, if strength and fitness are to be kept
to a pitch of top efficiency.
So the service I see our athletes rendering to
Australia is not so much in bringing home cups
and medals, but in demonstrating the quality 'of
the reserve we have, in body and spirit, among
the young people on whom this country will be
relying in the years ahead.
Let us by all means rejoice in the successes our
sporting champions have brought to us. But let us
also aim to show the. world that we can match in
all departments of our Australian effort the
surpassing standards they have set.
It is given to few to wear a national sporting
blazer, But ift the swift race of modern life, each
one of us has a place in the Australian team —and
in the future, as in the past, the reward will be to
the strong.
Brief Answers
A.W.A.: (I) It could be described
as such. (2) Depends on the reader.
(3) No apologies necessary. The
style is brilliantly, if verbosely,
satisfying D.F.: (1) Double-
spacing is best, with a 2in. margin
on the left-hand side. Standard
quarto-size paper is satisfactory.
(2) Suggest you send it to. a
women’s magazine interested in
serials. Enclose stamped, addressed
envelope.. . .U.C.M.: Impossible to
say exactly how much it’s worth.
Tne librarian at the Conservatorium
of Music, Macquarie Street, Sydney,
may be able to Jielp... .R.W.: (1)
No need to seek the publishers’
approval; simply acknowledge the
sources from which you draw your
material. (2) Same thing applies.
U.C.-M.: Write Tyrrell’s Pty.,
Ltd., 202 George Street, Sydney.
P.T.: It would appear not;
best to see your solicitor... .5.8.:
(1) The moral question involved is
one of services rendered. A free
gift, unrelated to services or their
cash equivalent, and not in
exchange for assets, tangible or
intangible, would be hard to
justify. (2) Impossible to say;
everything depends on circumstances
surrounding each particular case.
N.T.: Eugene Sandow died in
1925 F.P.: lcwt. white-lead in
oil, 4gats. raw linseed-oil and 2pts.
terebene driers mixed thoroughly
together should prove right for the
job... .8.C.C.: The first painter to
be represented in the Victorian
National Gallery was Louis Buvelot.
His “Winter Morning” was hung
in 1869... .W.T.: Yes; you may
change your name by deed-poll and
register it.... J.M.: Unable to trace
those quotations... .“Mick”: An
“established church” may indicate
the national religion. In early
Australia the Church of England
was presumed to be established,
but Governor. Bourke’s Church Act,
1836, put all religious bodies on an
equal footing.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and-address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
G.D.: Good for your age, but
too young for us. You can only
keep writing—and reading
R.A.M.: The difficulty when you’re
juggling with words like that is to
get depth and memorable form.
But it’s bright juggling
G.M.H.: Why did you drop all
Stories, feature articles and
▼erse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.
Claims which state the
section in which paragraphs
appear and the date of
appearance will he paid more
promptly than those which
don’t.
those “g’s”? .For hurley?....
P.M.: Pleasant but slight....
J.P.S.: Better take Charlie to a vet.
A.L.S.: Your language is
agonisingly archaic J.M.: Jingle
on Melbourne Cup might interest a
horse... .D.G.K.: Thought and
diction should both be more pithy.
N.D.: It flows too idly on,
but at least you’re the first to
observe that a black swan is like
a pot-h00k... .C.G.: This will be
about enough:—
I took a job from a cockie one time
To plough up a few paddocks of ground,
All a man had to do was sit on the
Bomb
And keep steering her round and round.
F.D.F.: But the “orange
iridescent butter - ball” doesn’t
“clamber goldehly above the hori-
zon.” In the first place, it merely
rises A.P.: The paper-clip came
in handy H.D.: Your attempt
at off-rhyming laudable, but it’s
still a little forced... .8.L.: A
promising start, but development
patchy P.C.: “Lovelorn Celia”
is resting in the arms of the
basket... .F.J.: What happens to
Andy? He disappears on page
5 K.S.: Incredible! A.T.:
“Two Cautionary Tales About
Women” left on the Religious
Editor’s desk.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THREAD THROUGH THE MAZE
T ondon “Time and Tide”
comment on “the utmost
importance” of ordinary people
not becoming confused and
feeling incapable of forming
any valid judgment on inter-
national affairs:
“The real division of
opinion lies between those who
see each new crisis, each new
heightening of tension, as a
tragic accident imperilling
peace and those who regard
periods of relative tranquillity
as fortunate breathing-spaces in
a war which has been going
on for at least 13 years and is
likely to continue indefinitely ;
in short, between those who
do not believe the Com-
munists’ own statements of
intention and those who do.
“Now. if you believe that
the world is at war, that there
is an implacable enemy always
probing at the free world's
perimeter, then your approach
to international problems, your
scale of priorities, must be on
a war footing, too. This is a
hard doctrine, and people in
the easygoing comfort-loving
democracies try endlessly to
avoid it: unfortunately our
enemies can accept it only
too easily. Indeed, it supplies
both their motive power and
the cement which holds them
together. .
“Seen in this light a number
of problems become much
simpler. Whatever is strategi-
cally or politically advantageous
to our enemies—whether the
recognition of Communist
China or the opening-up of
Africa to a hostile thrust from
the north must be opposed,
even at considerable cost.
Defence, the integrity of its
boundaries and the preservation
of its institutions, is still the
first, and some would almost
say the only, legitimate political
object of every human society.
“From this it follows, for
reasons both strategic and
moral, that one should defend
one's allies and oppose, if one
cannot detach,, the allies of
one's enemies. What are the
chances of detaching Colonel
Nasser from Moscow 7 or Iraq
from Colonel Nasser?
“There is a related but more
fundamental principle. If the
Western Alliance, the ‘free
world’ as it likes to call itself,
stands for anything, it stands
for those values of historic
Christendom w'hich derive from
Athens and Rome and
Jerusalem ; it stands for those
humane and liberal ideas
which half-a-century ago
seemed to be spreading every-
where under Western tutelage
but are now being wiped out
like white marks from a black-
board. If those values and
ideas are to be defended still,
it cannot be by surrendering
power to the forces of
barbarism, by making deals
with men w'ho regard theft and
VICKY, IN LONDON “NEW STATESMAN ”
murder and promise-breaking
as proper political moves.
“No good ever came of such
compromises. The history of
the world has seen many
attempts to pay Dancgelt to the
barbarian. Has it seen a single
one which saved those who
paid?
“In Baghdad, in Nicosia, in
Algeria, the ' men who
believe in throat-cutting are at
work. Is it really the humane
and liberal thing to make peace
with them? In Moscow, in
Peking, in Cairo, the avowed
enemies of Christendom hold
undisputed sway. Is, it really
prudent to trust them? When
Mr. Khrushchev expresses his
intention of burying the capi-
falists, when Colonel Nasser
expresses his intention of build-
ing an empire from the Atlas
to the Caucasus, is it really
wise to disbelieve them? May
we not be overreaching our-
selves when w'e yield them point
after point on the curiously
subtle theory that they do not
know what is to their own
strategic advantage?
“At the time of Suez many
of the old liberal inter-
nationalists, such as Gilbert
Murray and Sir Norman
Angell, supported the Anglo-
French action. They did this
for a reason which is apparently
too simple for the modern
liberals to understand: they
saw that encouraging militant
nationalism is not the road
to internationalism.
“The world is fast falling
away from those liberal ideals
which once seemed so nearly
within our grasp. We can no
longer believe that all our
problems are really ‘misunder-
standings’ capable of being
cleared up by a little friendly
talk at the conference-table,
Some of our problems are the
result of genuine irreconcilable
clashes of interest, some are
deliberately created by evil men
and evil ideas. We may evade
them for a little while, but
sooner or later we must face
them or go down into the dark-
ness of fallen civilisations.
“Here at this fundamental
level there is no great diffi-
culty. When all the sophistical
and semantic arguments are
done, we do in fact know what
the Western world stands for
and what our enemies stand
for, and we can recognise our
enemies. The man-in-the-street
can recognise them. If we
hold fast to this thread we may
run into great danger, but we
shall not lose the way.”
Radiation Hazards
Three views on the report
by the United Nations scientific
committee on radiation:
London “Daily Telegraph” :
“Roughly speaking, the
number of nuclear explosions
since the war has been 190.
Proportionately the share in
these by the countries con-
cerned has been seven tests by
the United States to each
three by Russia and each one
by Britain. Each country has
made these tests (which may
not, incidentally, have con-
tributed in the same proportion
to the amount of ‘fall-out’)
because the responsible Govern-
ments have believed that the
risks to their security of not
making them would have been
greater than the risk to the
health of the world incurred
by making them. Always they
have claimed that the second
risk was small. Always, at any
rate in America and in this
country [Britain], this assump-
tion has been challenged,
Apart from its intrinsic interest
to everyone, this gives especial
importance to the report of the
U.N. scientific committee on
the effects of atomic radiation,
“The best ascertainable facts
about the situation as it is now
are these. Radiation occurring


NO SINGLE RUM CAN MATCH IT!
RED JACK RUM
O
BED JACK
RUM
£
BLENDED FROM QUEENSLAND’S
CHOICEST 7-YEAR-OLD
POT-STILL RUMS, NO "SINGLE”
RUM CAN MATCH IT.
Specially blended by
John Dewar & Sons Ltd., Sydney and
Harbottle Brown & Co. Pty. Ltd., Sydney
f
DWB7
naturally, either in the form of
cosmic rays from outer space,
or in materials on the earth
itself, subjects everyone in the
world to a dose during 30 years
of three units on the average.
But the variation of this natural
radiation is so large that the
highest doses to which people
are subjected and have
always been subjected—simply
because of where they live,
may be 10 times as much as
the smallest natural dose. Com-
pared with this, people in
countries in which methods of
examination and cure by radi-
ation are widespread, may
receive doses, again over the
course of 30 years, of between
one-half and five units. Suppos-
ing weapon-tests were to stop at
the end of this year, the
average dose received from fall-
out will be 0.01 of a unit: even
in the most affected area the
maximum would be 0.02.
“From the point of view of
the world as a whole the
increase in radiation as the
result of weapon-tests so far
is thus almost negligible. What
worries people is the possible
effect in the future both of
these tests and. of any further
ones. Here we move away
from the best ascertainable facts
to the best possible estimates.
One of the diseases sometimes
caused by radiation, and at
present incurable, is leukemia.
The authors of the report
estimate that in a world popula-
tion of 3000-million, roughly
150,000 cases a year occur
naturally. Of these, 15,000
would be due to natural radi-
ation. If tests are stopped this
year they think the maximum
increase due to the tests would
be between 400 and 2000 cases
for a limited number of years.
If the tests were to go on more
or less indefinitely, the
number due to the tests might
rise to between 5000 and 60,000
a year.
“The other source of anxiety
is the effect of radiation
received by parents today on
their children and on their
children’s children’s children.
At present, including the
result of natural radiation,
about 4 per cent, of live-
o°rn infants suffer, or will
suffer, from detectable
genetic defects. In a population
of 5000-million the authors of
the report translate this to
tnean between 700,000 and
three-million children a year.
Supposing that tests stop this
year, they think that a total of
between 2500 and 100,000
children, spread over an un-
known number of generations,
Would be added to this number
m future. At the other
end of the scale, if the tests
go on indefinitely, the increased
number of these children might
be between 500 and 40,000 a
year.
“These figures, vague though
they are, serve to put the risk
in proportion. At the best, it
exists. At the worst, it might
be considerable. The appeal,
several times repeated in the
report, that tests should be
stopped as soon as possible
is amply justified. This is,
indeed, what everyone wants;
the whole difficulty is to
determine what is ‘possible’ in
its widest strategic and political
senses. But the vagueness of the
figures is itself significant. The
fact is that very little indeed is
known about radiation. What
is known is largely the result of
the study of concentrated doses
lasting for a short period. What
is in question is the effect of
small doses over a long period.
is n °t even known whether
the effect of such doses is
cumulative. The research to
be done is immense, and we
must be glad Soviet scientists
are working with ours.”
* * *
“tf ew York Times” : “No
doubt the report will be seized
upon by the Soviets to give new
impetus to .their drive to disarm
the. West by stopping all tests
and banning all nuclear
weapons without, and certainly
prior to, inspection and control,
B ut the hazards of testine must
be weighed against the hazards
of no t testing, which could
deprive the West of its most
effective weapons and deterrent
to war
“The West has made
numerous oronosals for
controlled d"
armament which would elimi-
nate both testi and nuclear
“ «”»«* Co,to
™
hower’s initiative a scientific
... , ,
committee is even now complet-
af a "
inspection system that might
pemut halting the tests without
t°° great a risk of cheating,
And the Presldent ‘ s ur S' n «
an °* he . r to i,lld >'
“ eth ° ds o£ preven,m S surpnse
‘ b ™ *0 Western efforts have
beei ? , va,n thu ?. far ’, because ° f
Sov,et opposlt,on 1° any dis-
a™a”en pro ? reSS ' r" 1 , .
Kh , rushc hev in particular
”°‘ ™ les ° ut
lv \ lnspectlo . n of Soviet
terntor y as espionage’ but
also threatens to ‘destroy’
United States “ d ? r / ta ‘ b n '
As long as thls threat exists - the
West must keep its powder dry '
and that includes its nuclear
arms.”
L on d o n “Economist ”.
“Bomb-tests have a charac-
teristic that sets them apart
from other sources of radiation,
their release of strontium 90.
This element has a chemical
affinity to calcium that causes
it to be absorbed into bones,
especially those of growing
children. And here the [U.N.]
committee stubbed its toe on a
delicate political issue. The
Western child is partially pro-
tected from this strontium by
the cow, which grazes on
calcium-rich pasture and has no
physical need of the biologi-
cally inferior strontium. The
cow discards much of the
strontium 90 she eats, stores
a high proportion of the v
balance in her own bones, and
passes on a relatively small
quantity to the child who
drinks her milk.
“But the Eastern Child, living
on calcium-poor soil and draw-
ing most of its calcium from
crops like rice, will get a much
bigger dose of strontium, partly
because the plant will use
strontium to make-up for the
soil’s calcium deficiency, and
partly because the plant cannot
filter off the strontium as the
cow does.
“So, while the West’s im-
mediate concern must be to
curb the medical use of X-rays
and to improve the technique
of using them, in Eastern
countries, where these medical
techniques are scarcely used,
the bomb remains a bogy to life
and to the health of future
generations.
■ “This is the main burden of
the report. No one knows
whether radiation, particularly
radiation from strontium 90,
will actually have any physical
or genetic ill-effects in the
quantities in which it is likely
to arise. Gloomily the com-
mittee surmises that any effects
will be extraordinarily difficult
to measure, and that the only
hope of accurate assessment lies
in research into the funda-
mental issue of what radiation
does to the cell of the human
body. In the meantime it is
only sensible to regard radi-
ation in any quantity as a
menace, and any increase as un-
desirable. But to say that the
report provides hard factual
evidence . for the immediate
cessation of nuclear tests is to
read more into its extremely
tentative suggestions than the
authors can have meant.”
Communist Papers
Decline
Most British weeklies have
suffered a steady decline in
circulation over the last few.
years, while the “posh Sundays”


have considerably improved
their positions (London “Ob-
server” has jumped from
300,000 to 638,000 since 1945,
and London-“ Sunday Times”
from 460,000 to 795,000 over
the same period), but the most
notable falling-off has been
among the Communist-party
periodicals aimed at British
workers.
Looking over this field, a
London “Financial Times”
writer considers that “the ‘New
Builders’ Leader,! an un-
official bi-monthly publication
for building-workers, is per-
haps typical of the trend”:
“Before the war it had
regular printings of 15,000 and
more. By mid-1956, printing
was down to 6500, and copies
were distributed by 225 agents.
Seven months ago only 3000
were printed, and the agents
had, in the secretary’s own
words, ‘frittered away.’
“Only 10 people attended its
annual conference last Decem-
ber, and the next issue in
April this year confessed
bluntly: ‘We were unable to
come out with our January and
February number’ and indi-
cated that another issue would
be financially impossible. Yet
this is at a time when there is
some redundancy and condi-
tions normally conducive to
agitation from the extreme
Left prevail.
“Most of the other industrial
periodicals catering for a
whole trade are in a similar
decline. The ‘Power Worker’
out of existence in 1955
and its last editor admits that
there is no demand for its re-
appearance at the moment.
“The ‘Metal Worker,’ the
organ of the Engineering and
Allied Trades Shop Stewards’
National Council—an unofficial
Left-wing organisation which
Mr. Jack Tanner, a former
Amalgamated Engineer-
ing Union and T.U.C. presi-
dent, has described as ‘an alien
body grafted on to the British
trade-union movement’ still
appears. But the fact that for
the last two years the same
man has combined the jobs of
editor and secretary of the
council probably indicates that
the ‘Metal Worker’s’ finances
are not as good as they were.
“Similar difficulties are
apparent with the ‘Country
Standard’ (for v agricultural
workers), the ‘Wool Worker’
(for the textile trade) and ‘Fleet
News’ (for London busmen).
The first two of these are
monthly, the last irregular.
“ ‘Port Workers’ News,’
which is distributed among the
dockers, first appeared during
the 1947 strike, as a monthly.
IF THE DESERT IS TO BLOSSOM...
Since then it has appeared
irregularly at times when
strikes were maturing or in
progress. Now it is faced by
a rival —‘Call Stand,’ which is
produced by the London dock
militants who left the Com-
munist party after the Hun-
garian rising.
“An exception to the general
trend has been the other
journal which regularly
presents Communist views to
members of the Transport and
General Workers’ Union—
‘Platform,’ a monthly for
London busmen. ‘Platform’
claims, probably correctly, that
it increased its circulation
during the bus-strike.
“The lesson seems plain, that
these periodicals do fairly well
when there is discontent which
they can support, but that in
normal times it is difficult to
convince workers that they are
engaged in a perpetual class
war with the Government and
employers. This trend was
apparent before Hungary, but
has been accentuated since.”
Hemingway and
Miller
With the reversal by the U.S.
Court of Appeals of the second
conviction against playwright
Arthur Miller for contempt
of Congress the first con-
viction was almost imme-
diately reversed last year—
there ends, “Manchester
Guardian” notes, “a. ritual
which marred recent American
history”:
“Mr. Miller was cited for
contempt because he would
not tell a Congressional com-
mittee the names of acquaint-
ances who had been Com-
munists. He readily admitted
his own association with the
Communists. The point of Mr.
Miller’s resistance has not
always been properly under-
stood.
“Some pepple have assumed
that the act of informing on
one’s past associates before a
Congressional committee must
always be wicked. Yet the
Congressional investigation is
a well-established means of
carrying on the Government of
the United States: without the
threat of contempt proceedings
it could hardly compel, say,
trade-unionists dr business-
men to disclose corrupt prac-
tices, and that means disclosing
the names of vthose who have
engaged in such practices.
“The Court of Appeals, far
from saying that no one must
be made to inform on anyone
else, has acquitted Mr. Miller
on a technicality.
“The real objection to the
kind of proceedings that were
taken against Mr. Miller was
twofold. First, people were
required to inform on other
people not because of what
they had done but because of
what they had been. This was
where McCarthyism, from
start to finish, flouted the prin-
ciples of Western justice.
“Second, people were
required to inform not as a
means of uncovering a possible
danger to the community but
as a means to their own ritual
penance and purification. Con-
gressional committees already
knew the names which they
set out to extract from a fresh
witness; as in the days of the
Inquisition, what was wanted
was an ‘act of faith.’
“The entertainment business
was peculiarly vulnerable to
this sort of pressure, and many
people went through the
informer’s ritual for the sake
of their jobs. All the more
credit to Mr. Miller for doing
the right and, as it turns out,
the victorious, thing.’’
Meanwhile another Ameri-
can author is being somewhat
haunted by earlier associations,
Ernest Hemingway having said
he was prepared to sue
“Esquire” magazine if it re-
printed, in an anthology, some
of his Spanish Civil War
stories.
These-—“first-class stories,”
London “News Chronicle”
calls them—were written when
the author was a correspondent
with the Republican forces,
and he claims now that republi-
cation of them at this time in
America would cause him
“great injury and irreparable
damage.”
“At the height of McCarthy-
ism,” the “News Chronicle”
comments, “there would have
been no surprise at any author
taking fright: that a man of
Hemingway’s stature and forth-
rightness should still be con-
vinced that he cannot afford
to have fiction friendly to
Russia appear under his name
throws a sorry light on Ameri-
can opinion.
“These stories were planned
to reappear in an anthology of
literature. If Americans or
Others laugh at the way that
Moscow directs its authors and
dramatists, they should first
make sure that ideology does
not bear down on writers
nearer home.
“Once every Russian, even
in fiction, has to be a villain,
it means that a sense of balance
as well as of humor has been
lost.”


in insurance
NOW SERVES AUSTRALASIA
m
as
a 5
3
1 . 1 J
*-SJr !
i
HI
In 1792—around the time of the signing of
the Declaration of Independence—was formed
in Philadelphia (then the capital of the infant
United States) the organisation that today
serves Australia well. It is called the Insurance
Company of North America.
For the past 166 years the now mighty I.N.A.
has brought security through insurance to the
peoples of North America. It now proudly
brings to this country the experience of those
166 years.
Sincere in its beliefs that democracy will
thrive on democratic business operation,
I.N.A. personalises its service to its customers.
I.N.A. policy is prompt claims settlement . . .
and there is an evef-present readiness to
interpret insurance contracts in a spirit of
compromise and reasonableness.
With resources exceeding 867 million dollars,
the protective insurance interests of I.N.A.
range from the largest possible contracts down
to luggage protection while you travel.
I.N.A. offers insurance cover for General
Household policies (home and contents, and
personal effects), Small Business policies (fire
with consequential loss of profits, public risk,
burglary, plate glass, personal accident and
sickness), Marine policies (intrastate, inter-
state and international), Tourist Travel and
luggage protection.
It may well be in your own interest to see how I.N.A. can serve you.
INSURANCE COMPANY OF NORTH AMERICA
Incorporated in U.S.A. .with limited Liability.
82 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W. BW 4077.
AND AT BRISBANE, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, AUCKLAND, N.Z.


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week.
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets Exceed £81,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with tho
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Olympic Funds
I have been at all the
Olympic Games since 1928 and
have had considerable
experience in raising funds for
teams (B. 27/8/’5B). What has
always amazed me in Australia
is the fact that not one official
does anything about fund-
raising until the last six to eight
weeks before the Australian
team is to go overseas. Then,
of course, comes the hue-and-
cry, and the appeals to the
public and the Governments
in all States for money, money,
money. And if it doesn’t come
in such quantities that the four-
to-one ratio for travelling
officials can be maintained,
there is abuse and more
shrieks. Further, always in the
last few weeks the individual
athletes are required to go hat
in hand and collect part of
their own expenses. I have
never heard of this being
necessary in any other country.
In Australia we should be
doing something right now. We
know that we must have a
strong team at Squaw Valley
for the Winter Games and an
even stronger team in Rome
for the Summer Games in 1960.
Who’ll do the organising?
Well, that’s a matter for the
Australian Olympic Federation,
but I know that it can only
be done under professional
promotership —fund-raising is
nowadays a profession that is
even used by the various
churches.
While still in Los Angeles in
1932 with the German team,
we officials had reasons to
believe that the 1936 Games
would go to Berlin. On the
way back that eminent sports-
organiser Dr. Karl Ritter von
“I’d say that you were suffering from a chronic
fear-complex .”
Halt (still president of the
German Olympic Federation)
propounded the idea of adding
a small surcharge of (then) one
penny to all the sports-tickets
being sold for any type of
sports performance in the
whole of Germany —amateur or
professional.
Back in Germany, the whole
council of the Olympic Federa-
tion agreed unanimously and
asked the Government to print
token-tickets to go with every
other entrance-ticket sold —this
was necessary to account for
the intake of moneys. The
Government then, in 1933, pro-
vided through the official
Government printers all these
little penny token-tickets, and
we in the various sports organ-
isations had to dish them out
to our intra-State groups in
every town, village and hamlet.
Not one spectator kicked-up
any fuss about that little sur-
charge. All in all, by the time
the final accounting was done
at the close of this fund-raising
scheme in May, 1936, the
German Olympic Fund had
swelled by £5 million. From
this we were able to provide
money for special pre-Olympic
training-camps where top
athletes were given four- to six-
weeks’ special training. These
camps were established for
every sports group that was
represented at the 1936 Olympic
Games.
A similar scheme could be
organised in Australia, and the
Federal Government should
much prefer to print the tokens
than to be badgered for funds
at the last moment. —Eluxor
(N.S.W.).
Good' Seasons and Bad
I reckon the strength of our
interior country lies in the fact
that man in his wisdom, or lack
of it, can’t control the weather
(B. 20/8/’5B). I don’t know
how many millions of years our
pastoral country has taken to
attain its present sweetness and
value with the hit-and-miss
methods of weather ordained
by Nature. Droughts have
their sweetening effects; dry
times fallow the ground ; pests
and diseases are kept in some
order or restraint by that dry
air and arid soil.
If any wise fool starts to
water prolifically he is going to
upset all those millions of
years and what they have pro-
duced. He will introduce
diseases. In my opinion there
is no pastoral area of Queens-
land which can have two
seasons in succession, each on
or above average rainfall, with-
out losing some of its qualities.
There were good seasons after
1926 and 1912, and in both
cases, in the Richmond and the
Barcaldine districts respectively,
sheep had their choice of two
deaths—they could starve in
grass which was unfit to eat
and with no kick in it; or they
could be cremated in the grass
which carried no sustenance.
At present, after a succession
of good years, worms and other
parasites are causing trouble
with sheep in parts of the Min.
areas. They were never know'n
before. Lice have taken their
toll. They were never known
before the run of above-average
seasons. — Splodger (Q.).
Eye Diseases
May I have a shot at
“Optometrist” (B. 27/8/’58)?
I live in N.S.W. between a
country town and a village. In
the town and village respec-
tively, two jewellers and a
chemist write M. 1.0. after their
names. Does this mean that
they have taken the five-year
course “Optometrist” men-
tions? If they have not, then
“O.” appears to be evading the
point at issue, and his statement
is inadequate and misleading.—
D. Ex. F. (N.S.W.).
Wine
A well-known English mail-
order house lately sent me a
copy of their 1958 Christmas
catalogue. In the wine section
the only Australian wine
advertised is “Australian Rich
Ruby,” which is stated to be


V
ma
9 99
if
m
with Kodak’s easy-to-use
E
FLASH ii CAMERA
Mum, , anc ! -^ un ' or can enjoy the fun of picture making with
Kodaks Brownie Flash II Camera. For regular snapshots outdoors or
for flash pictures indoors or at night (with Brownie Flasholder attached)
V°“ incidents 'n sparkling snapshots. CAMERA
fco/ 0/7, PLASnOLDcR fc 1/7/6.
HERE’S EVERYTHING YOU NEED . . . IN KODAK’S
JUBILEE BROWNIE FLASH J]_ CAMERA OUTFIT
All you need to enjoy the fascinating hobby of
flash photography is contained in this compact
hobby outfit Camera, Flasholder, flashbulbs,
batteries, film, instructions. See it at your Kodak
-Dealer. Price £5/10/-.
w
I
m
m
m
LOAD YOUR CAMERA WITH
KM.929
u
Branches ii
KODAK (AUSTRALASIA) PTY., LTD.,
All States KODAK DEALERS EVERYWHERE
“a specially blended Empire
wine recommended for its full,
fruity flavor.” The label on the
bottle pictured shows only
‘‘Australian Ruby Wine.”
With all the fine Australian
wines available couldn’t the
wine industry and our trade-
commissioners do better than
that? It’s pointless to blame
the overseas market for
about Australian
products—when we ourselves
are at fault.
People overseas are not
mind-readers. If we want them
to know about the goods we
have for sale we’ll have to tell
them. No one else can do it. —•
Romast (Vic.).
Interest-rates
An important factor affect-
ing the lending-capacity of
banks is the decline in their
deposits, both fixed and free,
in relation to increase in over-
drafts. -Largely, this money is
being invested in finance com-
panies at rates up to 10 per
cent. Previously a considerable
percentage of these funds was
left with banks in the form of
fixed deposits or current
accounts, or placed in various
trustee securities.
The movement is not a good
one from the point of view of
the banks’ ability to lend,
which affects industry generally.
Controls are irksome, but the
limitation of interest-rates paid
to the public is necessary in
the interests of national pro-
gress. This would have the
effect of reducing funds held by
finance companies and decreas-
ing the r turnover and profits.
People would again turn to
banks with some of their
surplus money which would
enable them to advance to
selected customers with pro-
positions in harmony with the
national progress. —C.B. M.
(N.S.W.).
Coaching and Education
“Anti-Cram” (B. 20/8/’5B)
concedes that coaching can
be “desirable and even neces-
sary,” but questions whether
“big-business coaching” is “in
the interests of true educa-
tion.” His arguments, how-
ever, are applicable to any kind
of coaching.
“Big-business coaching” in
N. S. Wales has made its
appearance only in the past 10
years. It arose to satisfy a
real need —to supplement the
instruction, not the education,
given in the schools. Although
the standard of the external
Intermediate and Leaving Cer-
flflcate examinations has re-
mained fairly constant, the
standards generally in our
schools have fallen over the
past 20 years, particularly
during the past 10 years. The
main casualties have been in
the basic skills —spelling and
arithmetic in the primary
schools, and these weaknesses
handicap the typical secondary
pupil.
Why have these standards
slipped? There are several
reasons: teachers no longer
have the levers they once had
to ensure a sound grounding
in the skills ; they no longer
have the incentive ; the rise of
theories opposed to “drill” and
repetition, which is still the
“mother of studies”; and large,
unwieldy classes.
Hard cash is certainly being
paid to coaches, but, then, hard
cash is also being paid by the
same parents, through taxation,
to maintain the public schools,
I don’t know what their quali-
fications are. One I know was
a university student who was
quite capable of doing what he
was claiming to do—instruct-
ing in Intermediate maths and
physics.
As regards their pupils, I
know of only one. He com-
pleted fourth-year at school
and then enrolled at a coaching-
college for a few months, with
the result that he was able to
matriculate at the February


examination and go on to the
university, thus saving himself
the 12 months he might have
spent in fifth-year.
“Anti-Cram” can't be serious
when he suggests that teachers
in our State schools would not
engage in such activities. Many
of them do part-time coaching
and teach outside of school-
hours with, I believe, the con-
sent of the Public Service
Board, provided they disclose
their earnings from this source.
I remember one teacher saying
humorously that the time would
come when a teacher’s main
income would be from coach-
ing, since he could make more
that way than from full-time
teaching.
Teachers don’t admit that
9 a.m. to 3.30 p.m. is long
enough for a good day’s work.
Many have part-time jobs and
“sidelines,” mainly of the per-
mitted kind, which enable them
to bring their incomes into
parity with those of the better-
pa i d professions. Others
manage to attend the university
as evening students or to do
external courses.
Our educational system is
“being eaten into by borers,”
but the borers are certain
20th-century notions of educa-
tion, and the large classes.
The coach offers his services
to provide what is wanting, and,
to judge from the phenomenal
growth of coaching, meets with
some success. The solution to
the problem, of course, is to
remedy what is lacking in our
education system, not to attack
the coach or the college. lam
aware, of course, that the prin-
cipals of these colleges, like the
publishers of some books on
modern education theory, are
making considerable fortunes.
—Procro (N.S.W.).
“Anti-Cram” might be even
more concerned if he knew that
most of the "“fully qualified
teachers” in coaching-colleges
are university undergraduates
in second and third-year Arts
or Science. These students
generally haven’t much idea of
teaching-methods, and often
only a limited knowledge of
their subject. For this the
coaching-college receives up to
30s. an hour, of which the uni-
versity student gets 15s.
Many of the undergraduates
have the knowledge and ability
to instruct schoolchildren, and
many others haven’t. Passing
an exam, doesn’t qualify a
scholar to instruct for that
exam., and the university work
is generally quite different from
the school curriculum. Under-
grads trained in complex
algebra and calculus find it
hard to revert to simpler work,
and when they don’t concord
with the master worse confu-
sion arises.
Some parents regard coach-
ing-colleges as a guarantee that
their hopefuls will pass the
exams. Certainly high-school
classes are overcrowded and
some teachers are indifferent,
but no child should ever have
trouble with the Intermediate.
The Leaving is becoming
harder, but it still doesn't
justify the extravagance of a
coaching - college. Intelligent
use of text-books and com-
mentaries can make-up most of
the defects of an overcrowded
education system. If students
are worried about the Leaving
they should get old Leaving-
papers and trial-papers and
work them through.— Jay Deb
(N.S.W.).
Dutch New Guinea
Surely the constant assertion
that Dutch New Guinea is
crucial to the defence of Aus-
tralia is an obsolete notion.
These are days of inter-
continental missiles, and of
nuclear-powered submarines
capable of launching nuclear-
headed rockets against land-
targets from hundreds of miles
out in the ocean. In these cir-
cumstances New Guinea is
surely no “shield” whatever.
In any event, would these
amateur strategists please
explain whether an enemy
entrenched in Timor and the
Celebes would be any less
dangerous to Australia than if
he were in western New
Guinea? — Charles Meeking
(N.S.W.).
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 503
Across
I—They know a wheel toothed like the odorless one. (11)
7—A long-term sleeper offers a comment on those who
sleep forever. (3)
9—Nigh ruins (anagram). (9)
10 — Wrong way for the brief to lie about stringy material. (5)
11 — Shattered boss displays emotion. (4)
12 — Temporarily discontinues a Swedish farew'ell to ash-
containers. (8)
14 Grey oi heavy lair beside the meadow. (6)
15 — Ribbon for Albert of Autumn. (6)
19 — Spots coppers by skating
areas. (6)
20— N.S.W. town urges you not to
go in near the start of an inn-
ings. (6)
23 Having to be in steamer or plane
production. (8)
24- —Alternative to Jolson of the
mouth. (4)
26 — A light sporting encounter. (5)
27 Limit Constantine’s convey-
ance. (9)
28 — Can dough brass (3)
29 They put down a “nightcap” on
exponents of the iron. (11)
Down
1— Don’s crime is kept secret —went
red, nevertheless. (9)
2 This makes an Italian patriot
fish over one nickname for
Brynner. (9)
3 A sot thoroughly confused by
fermenting hops. (4)
4 The outcome of confinements in
which Dr. Lichen is present. (8)
5 Black’s goners are among it. (6)
6 Tell a confederate without stand-
ing on ceremony. (10)
7 Picture-puzzle about a chara-
banc. (5)
8— Literature from Epsom. (5)
13 —Not a dirty footballer —but they
are unpleasant after-effects. (10)
16 — Non-capital type put the luggage
down, (5, 4)
17 — Divers sustained by these 51
cats. (9)
18 — Humorist who has gone after a
driver in the Wild West? (8)
21 — Possibly the main event in a
country race-meeting a sign of
indigestion. (6)
22 — Timed to rise and resign. (5)
23 — Cloth chair is intended to be. (5)
25 —It isn’t contradicted many a
disease ends in it. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 502


Royal Jelly
DIRECT FROM THE BEES
30 Capsules 50 m.g.m. £5 5 0
30 Capsules 30 m.g.m. £3 15 0
Face Cream .. £ll7 C
Post Free. Free Leaflet.
REX PEACOCK
Apiarist,
BOX 181 KEBANC, VIC.
N.Z. INQUIRIES WELCOME
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Cows end Places Where They're Milked
By W. G. WHITTLESTONE
Tl7e have, in earlier articles,
* * given quite a lot of thought
to the cow herself and the
nature of the mechanism which
makes it possible to get milk
out of her. It is time to think
about the cowshed and how to
behave in it at milking-time.
The cowshed is very im-
portant to the farmer because
it is there that he reaps his
harvest of milk twice a day.
It should be clean and comfort-
able to work in. If the farmc
is unhappy in his shed, then
the cows will be unhappy, too
—a state of affairs which is
not good for the farmer’s milk-
cheque. But the shed is even
more important to the cow.
It is about the only place where
she meets her milkers. She
associates the shed with the
way she is treated there. She
may look forward to being
bailed-up, or she may think of
it as the last place on earth.
To make things more com-
plicated there are several kinds
of cowsheds, and cows react
Sea-snails by the
million are ravaging
some pastures in Vic-
toria. They have
been carried in sand,
on fence posts and
barbed wire removed
from the sea-front.
Here is still another —
if unusual risk
which the grazier has
to face. Fortunately,
the risks of set-back,
shock and loss, which
may follow the mark-
ing and tailing of
lambs with a knife,
have been consider-
ably minimised by the
introduction on the
market of Elastrator
Rubber Rings.
to them differently. Before we
discuss some of the problems
I would like to tell of an
observation made by my friend
Dr. Harry Scott, of the Uni-
versity of Auckland, New Zea-
land.
Dr. Scott was making a pre-
liminary study of the relation-
“Gef a Wriggle on , you two , or there'll be only room for
the rabbit population
ship between the cow’s tempera-
ment and her milk-production.
The placid and the excitable
cows were sorted out in two
groups of herds; one a high-
producing group and the other
below average. The cpws’
temperaments were graded
according to certain types of
behavior at milking-time, and
the most excitable and the
most placid cows, regardless
of any other properties, were
separated and their production-
records studied.
It was found that the placid
cows were definitely better pro-
ducers in the high-producing
herds than the excitable ones,
with the exception of one herd.
When the figures for this herd
came to hand Dr. Scott was
quite disturbed because they
upset the general picture.
Then we found that the
farmer concerned had a type of
shed we call “herringbone” in
New Zealand. In it the cows
stand in groups side-by-side.
They come into and leave the
shed in groups and are never
separated from their fellows.
Why should this system of
milking make conditions better
for the excitable cows? It
looked from the figures as if
the reason for the placid cows
doing no better than the ex-
citable ones was simply that
the latter were producing better
in this herd than they would
in an ordinary set-up.
Dr. Scott thinks the reason
is that the cow is a sociable
animal and hates to be by
herself. When she is separated
from the others she is nervous
—as they say in the textbooks,
she is in a state of stress. This
is most interesting. The modern
cowshed often uses milking-
systems in which the cows are
handled individually. This
could mean that some cows
will not be able to put up as
good a performance as they
would in a more suitable kind
of milking-system.
In general there are three
main ways of organising milk-
ing which are in widespread
use today. The commonest is
the walk-through milking-bail,
in which the cows stand parallel
to one another and more-or-
less paired-up.
They are brought into the
shed individually and stand in
the bail at the same level as
the milker. The milking-
machine may have one set of
teat - cups for each cow
(“doubled-up” is the popular
term for this system), or there
will be one set of cups to two
cows. When there is one set to
two cows it is hard to organise
the milking.
We know that a cow must
not be stimulated to produce
let-down hormone until just
before she is to be milked.
Unless the milker can judge
just when one cow is going to
stop milking he will find it hard
to know when to start stimulat-
ing the next one to be milked.
It is much easier to have a set.
of cups for each cow. Then
each animal is brought in,
washed and stimulated and the
cups put straight on.
Another system, which came
from America, has a set of pens
so placed that the cows stand
head-to-tail, each in her own
compartment. The floor of the
pens is about 3ft. above the
floor the milker walks on. This
does away with stooping—an
understandable objective in a
country which consumes so
much fatty food. This is an
expensive way to milk, but it
is hygienic and requires less
energy than the ordinary shed.
Perhaps the neatest system
is one which can be claimed as
Australia’s own. It first
appeared, as far as I know, in
1916 in Australia and was
taken up with great enthusiasm
in New Zealand a few years
ago. In it the cows stand on
platforms about 3ft. above the
milker’s floor. They are angle-
parked and there are two
platforms. This results in a
herringbone pattern from
which the shed gets its popular
name. The cows come in in
batches of six to ten and are
handled always in groups. In
this sense the system is
different from the others, and
there is good reason to think
that it is psychologically sound.
There are a few rules about
behavior which apply to all
kinds of sheds. Remember
when you are in a cowshed you
are with an animal that loves
a peaceful life and is suspicious
of sudden movements or noises.
Further, cows can be trained to
accept all sorts of routines, so
make a point of training them


to a convenient system and
keep to it.
Regularity is very important.
I know a farmer who was a bit
deaf and who had a cowyard
with a step in it. One day when
running out into the yard he
fell over the step. After this he
trained his cows to come in
when called. When I first met
him he was sitting in his shed
on a stool shouting for the next
cow, who was slowly finding
her way from the back of the
herd. He apparently thought
his herd was deaf, too ; how-
ever, the cows had become used
to this strange procedure.
When 1 asked him about the
reasons for training his cows
this way he gave a picturesque
description of his accident, and
ended by saying that he
couldn’t see “why the b
hell I should go out into the
yard for the b s ; they can
come in themselves or they
won’t b well get milked.”
It isn’t necessary to train a
herd to this extent, but it does
show what can be done. As a
matter of fact, too much train-
ing is unwise. Many farmers
have a system in which each
cow goes to her own bail. This
is not a good idea, because if
anything should happen which
upsets the routine the cows will
be upset. When they learn to
accept any bail it is much easier
to keep everyone happy.
The milking - machine is
important. It must be com-
fortable. A wild Irish farmer
friend once bought a new
machine which had been set
by the mechanic at a high
vacuum. The farmer objected,
but was told to mind his busi-
ness—the expert knew best. I
asked him how he was getting
on a few days after he had
started with the new machine,
and with his usual exaggeration
he told me how the machine
was so hard on the cows “the
b teats were coming out of
the releaser!”
Actually, the machine was
hurting the cows and his milk-
yield had fallen. This sort of
thing is very bad indeed. There
are some milking - machines
which should not be used even
on buffaloes —and they are the
toughest milkers I know. The
action of the machine should
be as gentle as possible ; it
should be regular, and it must
get the milk away quickly. A
good cow can give half-a-gallon
of milk a minute on the
average, and the machine must
be able to handle it.
I was in a pair of contrasting
sheds recently. In one the cows
were restless ; their eyes were
popping and they didn’t chew
the cud. They had to be
pushed Into the bails and
obviously took a dim view of
the whole business.
Many of them had ex-
pressed themselves quite
definitely—a cow’s thoughts can
often be judged by the activity
of her bowels. In the other
case the yard was quite clean,
and although I was a complete
stranger to the cows I was able
to mix with them and pet them.
I was even permitted to lean
against a cow while examining
part of the milking-machine.
The shed was well run, and
all of the cows were contentedly
chewing the cud. Their sense
of security in the yard and
shed was such that even the
presence of strangers had no
effect on them.
The first element in cowman-
ship is to create a sense of
security ; the cows must learn
the shed-routine, and nothing
should ever happen which will
upset them or make them
anxious. A good cowman, like
a good hostess, must create an
atmosphere in which the guests
are relaxed and feel at home.
Spring Fertilisers
“Billjim”: Consistent use of
fertilisers is producing regular
increased yields of apples and
other fruit in the south,
particularly in the hills districts
of Victoria.
In the non-irrigated areas
41b. to 81b. per tree of 1:1:1
mixture of super., ammonia and
potash is best. Peaches in
irrigated districts need another
application in December or
January, while citrus requires
scwt. to 7cwt. per acre of
sulphate of ammonia.
There’s a useful substitute for
sulphate of ammonia in urea,
blood-and-bone or poultry-
manure. For 51b. of sulphate,
you can substitute 21b. of urea,
151 b. of blood-and-bone or
501 b. of poultry-droppings.
Deciduous Trees
“Big Billy”: A little practice
is all that’s needed for budding
and grafting deciduous fruit-
trees, as long as you’ve got a
sharp, thin-bladed knife and
the stocks are in good condi-
tion (they are right for budding
when the bark lifts easily and
cleanly, exposing a moist,
smooth surface). Standing
stocks are best grafted in the
spring; bench-grafting of
roots is a winter job.
November or December are
the best months for summer
budding. Lise the current
season’s laterals for budwood,
which must be hardened and
past the sappy-growth stage.
Late January to March are
the best months for autumn
budding. The bud remains
dormant in the stock until late
winter or early spring, when
the stock is cut back to force
it into growth.
In spring operations, now
immediately in prospect, cut the
budwood while it is dormant
and then store it upright and
partly buried in moist soil in
a shady place.
Plastic makes the best tie and
gives a clean union to stock and
scion. Raffia ties, if used, must
be waxed to exclude air. When
union has taken place cut the
ties away.
Anomalous Crop
“Coota”: Tobacco is grow-
ing well in Victoria on a diet
which all good cereals would
rightly shun.
In the first place the “weed”
cannot stand nitrogen in the
soil ; secondly, some of the
best crops are being grown on
paddocks which have been
cropped consistently for many
years. Occasional floods, like
the recent one in Victoria’s
Owens and Buffalo River
valleys, “improve” tobacco-
soils by spreading gravel over
paddocks which are in danger
of becoming too fertile.
Cereals and tobacco have
similar appetites for super-
phosphate and a need for
continuous growth, but other-
wise the two crops are about
as different as could be.
For Papal Farm
“R.R.D.”: When Pope Pius
Xll and Dr. Bonomelli,
manager of the Papal farm near
Rome, became concerned over
the shortage of beef-cattle in
Italy and Southern Europe,
they asked advice from Mon-
signor Ligutti, executive
director of the National
Catholic Rural Life Con-
ference of America.
Monsignor Ligutti urged
them to start a herd of the best
type of beef-cattle and recom-
mended Aberdeen - Angus,
which he hoped to obtain
through the generosity of U.S.
breeders.
Accordingly they plan to
stock the Papal farm with at
least 14 registered Aberdeen;
Angus heifers and one bull.
As the herd increases, bulls
and heifers will be given to
poor farmers who have proved
themselves worthy and to
charitable institutions which
operate farms.
Long-range plan is to
increase the supply of quality
beef, and so raise the living-
standard of Southern European
farmers.
Rice Fluke
“Wonga”: Believing that his
rice-crop was not stooling well
enough, a New South Wales
farmer drained all the water
from the paddock and grazed
the plants with sheep in the
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(27/8/’58)
Queensland’s south coast, Darling Downs, Central High-
lands and Maranoa districts may receive moderate rains in
September, but the rest of the State is likely to have only
poor rainfall. Light to moderate patchy rains may occur in
October and November, with good general rains in December.
A large part of N.S.W. can expect moderate to good
rains during September, with best falls on the South Coast,
Southern Tablelands, and South-west Slopes (flooding is
likely on the South-west slopes). Rainfall may be light on
the North Coast and in the north-west and far-west areas,
and patchy in October and November, with general rains
in December.
Victoria is likely to have good rains in September, but
with the likelihood of flooding in the southern rivers. Rain-
*fall may be patchy and from light to moderate in the
northern areas during October and November, although good
rain can be expected to continue in the southern half of the
State for the balance of the year.
The agricultural areas of South Australia can expect
good rains during September and October, though rain
may be light to moderate in the Murray Valley and poor in
the upper-north and interior.
The south-west agricultural areas and eastern goldfields
area of W.A. may receive good rains in September, but else-
where poor. The best falls are likely on the central and
south coast.
LENNOX WALKER.


Mightier Than Ever !
1958 Royal Melbourne Show
September 18-27
Nine Days Eight Nights
Grand Parade of Victorian Agriculture.
Unrivalled Exhibition of Livestock of all Classes:
New Breeds Exhibited.
•
Dairying Industry Display.
The complete story of milk from cow to consumer illustrated by
£50,000 worth of Dairying Machinery working continuously. Life-
sized model cows milked by machine in modern cowshed —Bulk
Transport Brine Cooling Pasteurising bottling and capping.
Grand Scone Bake.
•
Australian and Victorian Shearing Championships.
Victorian Fleeces on Display.
•
Outstanding Spectacle for the Horse Lover.
Novel Equestrian Events: Olympic Jumping. Garryowen and other
Equestrienne Trophies: Junior Classes.
•
Spectacular Wood Chops:
£1,584 prize money to be won.
Tree-felling Championship on Peopled Day.
•
Trotting on graded track topped with white shell.
Polocrosse.
Continuous Ring Events-—Grand Parades Daily.
Unrivalled Family Entertainment.
Ample Modern Catering.
Family tickets at 10/- permit two adults and up to
four children to enter the Grounds.
Special Trams and. Trains.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
tree. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; £ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to "The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
same way that a wheatgrower
would eat-off rank growth.
To everyone’s amazement,
the crop stooled well after this
treatment and went on to give
a record yield of 67 bags to the
acre. All the same, other rice-
growers would do well to stick
to orthodox methods.
Blood Will Tell
“M.”: That article on the
English Leicester (B. 20/8/’5B)
is important because it re-
states the three original strains
and the sequence of crossing
which gave Canterbury (N.Z.)
frozen lamb its unchallenged
pre-eminence in the last 60
years.
Because of climatic, soil and
topographical conditions,
Canterbury will probably
always produce the best lamb
and mutton strains in N.Z.,
but it is problematical whether
the present general run of
•Canterbury lamb is of the same
uniform, consistent high
quality and conformation as
that of the past.
One of the chief reasons for
this may be the subdivision of
the big old back-country
stations where they bred the
English Leicester-Merino half-
breds, with the Lincoln as an
alternative. These sheep ran
on high hillock country under
warm summers without
extremes of heat, and though
the rainfall is relatively low
(21-23 in.) there is ample water
in the fast-running hill-streams.
The man producing lamb on
the lower downs and plains
would get his halfbreds at the
ewe-sales and use a Southdown
or a Shropshire ram. The latter
was a particularly good getter,
producing a perfect carcass,
though the lambs had to be
taken on about the day they
were ready, as they would not
hold their peak once they
reached killing-maturity.
By the time of World War I
production was well specialised,
and they really went after
quality. The outbreak of war
changed things. Under fixed
prices, which came into effect
with the inception of Govern-
ment bulk-buying, lamb-
quality, which invariably meant
a small carcass, became
secondary. What was wanted
was weight, and so that was
bred for.
After the war the Corriedale
was starting to come in onto
the older subdivided runs, with
consequent heavy culling of
ewes. A lot of newer men
taking-up land would use these,
crossing with whatever was
handy—Border Leicesters, even
Romneys.
The sight of this stuff on the
hooks would sadden the old
freezing-works hands when
they remembered the straight,
uniform lines of top quality
they shipped in the past.
It is heartening to learn that
here, in what must be quite a
different environment, the
proved combination of these
three well-fixed breeds, each
with its particular charac-
teristics, still runs true to type
in the end-product.
Greenstuff for Poultry
“C.A.A.”: Overseas research
shows that the feeding of green-
stuff can often cut poultry
costs, but lays emphasis on
grazing as opposed to hand-
feeding.
It was found that for birds
with access to open grazing the
intake of mash and grain was
reduced by up to 10 per cent,
without affecting growth,
health, age of maturity, or egg-
production ; important in view
of recent rises in feed-prices.
But, of course, it’s a matter of
whether a greenfeed-cultivation
programme will fit into the
farm routine and labor posi-
tion, and whether suitable land
is available with an adequate
water-supply.
Further economies could be
made by reducing the amount
of protein and by omitting
vitamin-supplements in the
ration, though sources of
calcium and salt must be sup-
plied. Young herbage was
found to yield more protein
than older herbage.
Under southern conditions
an acre of irrigated pasture will
provide enough greenfeed for
1600 birds from August to
March, but from April to
August the deficiency must be
made up from oats grown for
the purpose. If the greenstuff
is fed to the birds, the best
cutting-time is at short intervals
in the young, leafy stage, well
before flowering.
Irrigated rye-grass, white-
clover pasture and oats are
the best sources of greenfeed,
but lucerne is good, too.
Perennial Prairie
“Myall”: New Zealand
perennial prairie - grass
C Bromus catharticus), often
called Priebe prairie-grass
after the man who introduced
it to Queensland’s Darling
Downs, has proved itself an
excellent pasture-grass when
sown on sandy loams and self-
mulching clay loam of good


TIE WIRE-NETTING
GERRARD
AUTOMATIC
RING FASTENER
GUN - - - 60/- each
GALVANISED FASTENERS
----- 11/- per 1 OOOf
A
THIS EASY WAY-
(2S yds. per minute)
Ring Fasteners are sold
in packets of 1000
As fast as you can squeeze Its
gasy-working handles, this self-
feeding gun effortlessly clamps the
!14 Gauge cement-adhered staples into sturdy in. rings, which are automati-
cally fed into the jaws. There is no wastage —the job is quick, neat and strong*
Available from ALL WOOL HOUSES and
GENERAL STORES
Manufactured by Gerrard Engineering Pty. Ltd., 18 Ireland Si,, W.
fertility. It grows well on the
heavy black-soil, but there
loses its permanence and
becomes of annual duration.
In either case it produces
a heavy crop of succulent
herbage, very palatable, and
with high milk-producing
qualities. Prairie is considered
oni of the best winter grasses,
and is at its top when most
others are almost dormant.
It’s usually sown in a mix-
ture: prairie, 41b.; green-
panic, 31b.; lucerne, lib.;
barrel-medic, lib. —a total of
91b. to the acre. This is mixed
with 61b. fine sawdust and
sown through the grain-box in
7in. drills at a depth of from
12in. to 18in.
Another excellent mixture
is: prairie, 41b.; Rhodes, 31b. ;
lucerne, 21b. ; phasey-bean,
Tib. —a total of 9|lb. per acre,
at a depth of 12in.
When sown alone prairie is
easily pulled out by animals,
but it makes good hay and
silage, and is often sown (at
201 b. per acre) for these pur-
poses. Given the usual winter
rains, prairie grows very
rapidly, and three or four
cuttings may be made in a
season. Under very favorable
conditions it will grow as
high as Bft., but averages 2ft.
to 3ft.
Fruit-fly
“Myall”: To combat fruit-
fly the C.5.1.R.0. has intro-
duced a species of wasp from
Hawaii, bred in a special wasp-
hatchery at the Sydney
laboratory. It is hoped that,
when released in sufficient
numbers, they will attack the
fly in the larva stage by laying
eggs in the fruit-fly maggot, on
which the embryo wasps feed.
As another step, the Queens-
land Department of Agriculture
has an entomologist in the
United States studying the
fruit-fly problem there.
Meantime, fruitgrowers are
battling to keep the pest in
check with sprays, lures and
poison-baits, which should be
applied regularly eveiy six days
to be of much use and renewed
immediately after any fall of
rain.
Spraying with 0.2 per cent.
D.D.T. spray has been found
effective in many districts ; in
other areas lures and baits are
preferred. An excellent lure,
made by mixing 1 teaspoonfui
of cloudy ammonia and 2 level
teaspoonfuls of pollard with 1
pint of tank-water, has shown
considerable success. Wide-
mouthed bottles, each with 6
fluid-ounces of the mixture in
it, are suspended by tie-wire in
the shaded portions of the trees.
Up to six such traps may be set
in each tree, and should be
emptied, washed and refilled
every six days.
An easily prepared but very
efficient bait is made as
follows: mix together 1 fluid-
ounce nicotine-sulphate, 21b.
sugar and 4gal. water and use
as a stock ; immediately before
using add 2 fluid-ounces of 20
per cent. D.D.T. emulsion and
stir thoroughly. Splash on the
shaded portions of the trees
with a brush, flicking it to pro-
duce small beads of the mixture
five or six days from the time
the fruit is a little more than
half-grown until the whole crop
is harvested.
One most important factor in
fruit-fly control is to destroy all
waste and infested fruit, so
that the larva of the fly cannot
develop.
Selective Herbicides
“B.B.”: With the newer selec-
tive herbicides it’s important to
apply just the right amount of
spray per acre, particularly
where they are used for pre-
emergence weed-control. In
killing weeds in peas, lucerne
anjd clovers the selective effect
depends almost as much on the
correct quantity as on the
particular herbicide.
To be certain of applying
the correct amount to each
paddock the total volume of
the spray must be known ; it’s
best discovered by a test-run
over a measured distance. To
check the variation of output
between different-size nozzles,
place a series of vessels under
each nozzle with the machine
stationary or hold a graduated
measure under each nozzle for
a specific time. If any nozzle’s
output is greater or less than
the rated output by more than
10 per cent, this nozzle should
be replaced.
Paspalum
Scrobiculatum
“North”: Scrobic - grass
(Paspalum scrobiculatum) has
proved itself outstanding in
Queensland’s Lockyer Valley
and on the Darling Downs.
A native of India, it is admir-
ably suited for reasonably
fertile loams and sandy loams
in tropical and sub-tropical
districts, where the annual
rainfall is between 30 and 80
inches.
Climates and soil-conditions
that will grow P. dilatation will
be found suitable for this grass,
which is a perennial, very
palatable, and of high carrying
capacity under good rainfall
conditions. During trials at
the Queensland Agricultural
College at Lawes (S.Q.) it
carried 18j sheep per acre for
125 days during the summer
months, when there was an
abundant rainfall.
Seed is sown during spring
and summer, as soon as frost-
danger is past. Sow at the rate
of 31b. or 41b. per acre, at a
depth of lin. to in drills
4ft. apart. As the plant is a
heavy seeder, a thick sward is
soon established if the paddock
is shut-off, and the seed
allowed to drop. The field
should be well cultivated and
all weeds destroyed.
Lucerne is an excellent
legume for sowing with P.
scrobiculatum in a permanent
pasture —at the rate of lib.
per acre mixed with the grass.
As both are moisture-lovers,
heavy stands of nutritive
fodder with a high carrying
capacity are produced.
Severe frosts will “burn”
the grass, but it will still be
palatable and all classes of
animals will readily eat it. It
quickly “comes” again with
the spring rains, and is soon
ready for stocking.


ABOVE ALL
Don't miss the Fabulous
FRENCH FAIR
MELBOURNE
if Fashion Parades —
Glamour parades of dresses from Paris and Australian creations
in wonderful French fabrics —shown twice daily.
if A Gay Paris Cafe —
Lunch, dinner or light refreshments in a cafe with all the
atmosphere and excitement of the boulevards of Paris.
if Cooking Demonstrations —
Learn the secrets that have made French cooking the delight
of the civilised world.
★ 7974-7978 War Museum—
Poignant memories of comradeship-in-arms brought back by a
display of First World War battle souvenirs. Shown for
the first time outside the Australian War Memorial, Canberra.
it Free Film Shows
Magnificent Murals
A Glittering Show Window of the Best of Paris
EVERY DAY’S A HOLIDAY—A GALA NIGHT
For the Whole Family
at the Fabulous
FRENCH FAIR
EXHIBITION BUILDINGS. MELBOURNE,
September 29—October 11. 1958 11 a .m 10 p.m. daily
Melbourne Show, 1958
This Show-year is Vic-
toria’s 110 th —but it is
not the 110th Show, for
there were interrup-
tions: for one thing, those of
war years.
It was in 1848 that the Port
Phillip farmers staged their
first ploughing-matches at the
La Rose farm at “The Moonee
Ponds.” There were some
associated agricultural compe-
titions on that occasion, but
the plough has always remained
the symbol of the agricultural
society which grew from the
farmers’ group, and “Speed the
Plough” was adopted as its
motto when it was given the
Royal approbation in 1890.
(The phraseology of the motto,
with sundry literary twists
through the centuries, goes
back to • the days of Chaucer
and the Paston Letters.)
It was only natural that the
R.A.S.V. should be the medium
through which Victoria became
a member (this, year) of The
world ploughing-organisation.
The society, through its Young
Farmers’ movement, sponsored
the National Ploughing Asso-
ciation of- Victoria and its
membership of the world
movement. In the revived
ploughing-matches in 1958
Victoria won the national title
from N.S.W., and its represen-
tative, Bill Fraser, will contest
the world (“The Golden
Plough”) event at Dusseldorf,
West Germany, next month.
The plough will take an
even more’ elevated place at
the Melbourne Royal. On the
afternoon of the first Sunday
of the Show, September 21,
the ancient ceremony of
blessing seed, soil and plough
will be conducted by the Vic-
torian Committee of the World
Council of Churches on the
arena at the Showground in
Epsom Road, Ascot Vale.
Anglican Archbishop Woods,
of Melbourne, as Principal,
will be supported by massed
choirs and bands and with the
uncommon addition of a verse-
speaking girls’ choir to read
the scripture lesson.
This is an entirely new de-
parture for the Show, and one
which is welcomed by the
churches at a Jime when the
world accent on materialism
is deplored on the one hand
and, on the other, the heavens
are being scanned for any trend
towards a recognition of
spiritual values.
☆. ☆ ☆
"Protection of Show patrons
from financial exploitation
and hazards to health has been
a keenly sought-after objective
in recent years. Prices of
souvenirs, sweets, snacks and
meals were kept under scrutiny
last year to considerable effect,
and vendors of sample-bags
have been encouraged, by pre-
cept and example, as well as
pre-Show inspections and com-
parisons with xetail over-the-
counter prices, “to put value
back in the bag.”
The effect last year was
startling. The Coles Stores
sample-bag, which was the
example to set the standard,
proved so popular that bargain-
counter scrums and skirmishes
occurred around the Coles
stand, and police regulated
queues; the Hall of Com-
merce had to be closed
temporarily while stands sold-
out complete stocks not only
of these but of all other sample-
bags.
Perhaps with the idea of
ploughing-back their profits
(or part of them), Coles have
erected a new brick building
complete with tea-house. There
is also the new Ford stand.
There are rumors of other


MODERN MEDICAL PREPARATIONS
83»
m:
m
.
MAN’S DANGER GLAND
New therapy for enlarged prostate,
bladder weakness, especially frequency
at night. Is often the earliest symptom
and if untreated the condition pro-
gresses and results in complete
stoppage. PPH Therapy (capsules and
suppositories) relieves enlargement, and
distressing urinary frequency. Price
30/- per box.
S.L.F. THERAPY:
Relief to
women in
middle age suffering from nervous
disorders, hot and cold seusatious
(HOT PLUSHES), dizzy spells, and is
also effective in alleviating personal
disturbances. Price 30/- per box of
capsules.
T.L.F. THERAPY:
MEN! Regain your feeling of well being.
This modern preparation is a boon to men
over 40 who feel they are prematurely old. Gives Pew lease of life a'nd
renews mental and_ physical powers. Price 30/- per box of capsules.
NOCTEPAX:
This preparation produces relief in bladder weak-
ness, including urinary frequency in elderly patients
and bed-wetting (ENURESIS) in children. Owing 1 to new discoveries
In this field we can now treat this complaint with success. Trice
per box of capsules, 20/-.
RHEUMAGON:
This product is based on a new conception of
the causation of rheumatism and arthritis. An
effective substitute for cortisone compound E- or ACTII. ’ A”s'pecific
for fibrositis and rheumatoid arthritis. Price per box of capsules, 30/-.
BIO-VITAMIN:
J-hese capsules contain wonderfully rich Royal
•Telly and incorporate the adult daily need of
eight essential vitamins. The perfect body builder and restorative,
tan be taken by sickly children, nursing mothers and convalescents
from debilitating diseases. Price per box of capsules, 20/-.
MKDICAT, BOOKLETS of 60 pages on Man’s Danger Gland and
Bladder Weakness posted in plain cover. Price 5/-.
All lines Post Free. Advice on complaints free .
MEDICAL RESEARCH CLINICS,
7 Collins St., Melb., Vic. MX 3700. Wept. A. Prompt attention Mail Orders
exhibitors challenging the
Coles supremacy in the sample-
bag arena!
* ☆ i fir
TThe days of Dad and Dave
in a mood of expansive
opulence buying the adjacent
Flemington Racecourse or sub-
scribing to some such worthy
cause as the Cons and Deps
sustentation-fund belong to the
philanthropic Ned Kelly era.
In 1958 the R.A.S. not only
pays from its own funds for a
substantial force of Victorian
police but has in its own staff
a nucleus of experienced and
crowd-wise men and women
with a nose for a hustler and
a short way with spivs. It
takes the reasonable view that
charity, if it begins at home,
doesn’t necessarily stay there
at Show-lime, but restricts
charity-collections to one de-
serving cause. Last year it was
the Royal Children’s Hospital;
this year-it is the St. Vincent’s
Hospital of the Sisters of
Charity. All other charities,
however worthy, are out.
☆ ☆ ☆
Royal is a show
which the press (inter-
state, sometimes international,
as well as local) likes to attend.
A feature instituted by E. A.
(“Ted”) Doyle, of the 1956
Olympic Games publicity fame
and now chairman of the
Council’s Public Relations
Committee, is the daily press-
conference, at which judges
give their reasons, state their
deductions and comments and
generally sound-off for the
benefit of commentators. New
and roomier conference-
quarters have been provided
this year, in the council stand,
adjacent to the press-room and
press-gallery and furnished with
every modern convenience, in-
cludin soda Xed Doyle,
former “Argus” and “Austra-
lasian *. editorj will
again come
down from his Emerald eyrie
to preside and prescribe,
Olympic standards have
affected the Melbourne Royal
- n m ore ways than one. The
journalist’s pre-Show tour
j s an adaptation. from
b e Commonwealth-wide
WO oI-tour for the world press,
j n wb j cb Les Batten and
g ob McMurchie played
organising roles The Council
of Churches gave its blessing
to tbe Olympic Games at a
great combined service in
Como park lQ the
01ympiad . andj as mentioned,
( bere j s to be a serv ice at Ascot
Va]e tbis
oiympic-style jumping and
Olympic standards will mark
the equestrian events, and the
most distinguished of the over-
seas judges, Lieut.-Colonel
F. W. C. Weldon, was the
leader of the British team in
the equestrian section of the
Olympic Games at Stockholm
in 1956.
* * *
A colorful Australian mem-
her of the judging panel is
Graham Head, who will judge
most of the dog entries, and
who only a few weeks ago
returned from a world Tour
with his wife, also a judge.
Head drove his own Volks-
wagen through Africa, Europe
and North America, shot
rhinoceroses, lions and other
big game (on color cinema-
film) and judged one dog-show
after another. -
* * a
VJhow-week is beginning to
, , , . ~ ,
climb back to its old place
in urban and suburban hospi-
lahty. Top of the Show-week
programme are the parties
lhe P reS ; dent f^ u MrS -
Mitchell at the Council Cham-
bers, which they propose to
increase in number this year,
taking time out from prepara-
November
wedding of their only daughter,
Sue, for the occasion.
One or two old-school organ-
isations, particularly those
whose membership includes
sons and daughters of the land,
are returning to Show-week
dates for dinners and dances,
Invergowrie plans its “Show
Time” dinner-dance for Sep-
tember 20 and has borrowed
from the Royal the materials
for its dance-room decor and
band regalia. The new Man-
hatten, the old council lunch-
room, which caterer Dennis
has modernised into a cabaret
of colorful carpets and plush
appointments, will be _ the
setting for more than the
customary quota social and
business—of the herd- and ■
cattle-club sessions which
usually scatter themselves over
all the eligible hotels and halls
from Essendon to the Paris end
of Collins Street. Many inter-
State visitors will be among
guests at these functions,
particularly those of the
Federal Councils of breed-
societies,
☆☆ " ☆
A mong the Show features
„ havc t 0 be a , cl „ uall i'
attended to be appreciated are
dairying Xplay, the
dens £ O / k ’ of the
f ts of the Department of
Agriculture and he - unique
aquarium of exotic Australian
sea . b f e among them the sea-
horses which Jast year made
history by giving birth to young
while on exhibi tion.
The'aquarium promises to
be come one of the star attrac-
tions of the Show.
One of the regular cracks
about the Melbourne Royal is
that it is always a “record
Show” for something. This
year, at any rate, it won t be
a record for the total
number of entries, the main
reason being that some of the
classes have been dropped and
others regrouped, while the
accommodation problem has
meant a reduction in the
number of animals presented,
Homecrafts have attracted
2573 entries, but the number
has not been substantially
augmented by the, new classes
added, including those for New
Australians only in cooking
and weaving, and others
adapted from American
models, which have not yet
attracted a wide Australian
interest.
The R.A.S.—Shell Survey
ICrom Yan Yean to Yarra-
wonga, Myrtleford back
to Moama, it was “water, water
everywhere” for the Show-eve
press-radio survey of Vic-
torian agriculture which the
R.A.S. conducted and Shell
sponsored at the end of August;
but if the immediate outlook
was showery the long view was
decidedly one of optimism. The
rains came at the right time —to
ensure first-class stock and pro-
duce for the Show in spite of
the dry that the wet succeeded.
Writers and cameramen from
the Melbourne dailies, country
and primary-producing press,
Commonwealth News and In-
formation Bureau, national and
womens’ magazines, mikemen
from the country networks, big
State-wide stations and Owen
Davies from the A.B.C. Rural
Hour were in, along with the
Wool Bureau’s Bob Mc-
Murchie and Agriculture
Department’s Colin Webb. A
surprise co-optee was B. B.
Baldridge, a public-relations
man from U.S.A., who, inci-
dentally, shot documentaries of
the floods and Dookie Agri-
cultural College as well as some
Show stuff for TV.
The camera-men shot Short-
horns and Red Polls, Arabs and
Shetlands, Miss Whittlesea
Show, Miss Yarrawonga Show,
Miss Echuca Show ; sheepdog-
trials, woodchops, a shearing-
shed in full blast, Clydesdale
teams and tractors ; Ruther-
glen Research Station ; citrus at
Perricoota ;.N.S.W. Cheviots at
Spion Kop, Upper Plenty
(Vic.); the Carnation Milk
factory at Merrigum, Wan-
garatta; bees making honey
and royal jelly from Patterson s
Curse, grey-box and clover;
cheese and butter at Kyabram ;
the piggery and thoroughbreds
(and Windbag’s grave) at
Northwood Park, Seymour;
tobacco-growing at Myrtle ford
in the shadow of ME Buffalo}
The Bulletin, September 10, 1958


Wherever large Government and Private projects
are in progress the name of Humes Limited is
almost certain to be seen.
Humes Limited, pioneers in pipe making, now
serve Australia, New Zealand, Malaya, Singapore
and Fiji through seventy conveniently located
factories.
Humes Limited supply steel and concrete pipes,
steel building components, pre-stressed concrete
components and a range of-concrete and steel
products to serve their varied markets.
HUMES LIMITED
Head Office:
HUME HOUSE,
185 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE
HIM
■2784
Trowelling a large diameter concrete pipe daring the Humes
centrifugal pipe making process.
i ,
See the Humes Limited Stand at the
1958 ROYAL MELBOURNE SHOW
Stand 122, Smith Street - - September 18th to September 27th
winemaking at Sutherland
Smith’s All Saints, Wahgun-
yah ; John Bott’s famous Aber-
deen Angus Stud at Naranghi,
Yarrawonga; Wilson G. J.
Beer’s Red Polls, Border
Leicesters and Dorset Horns at
Naneella South ; Wilfred A.
Cox’s modern herringbone
dairy, milking 70 cows in 30
minutes in the rich Kyabram
irrigation-area ; and, finally, the
Royal Show teams of Poll
Herefords and pigs at Dookie
College.
One of the educational de-
vices of (he Show, that of
demonstrating beef-production
from the herd to the home,
was given a trial run during the
tour, by John Bott, an R.A.S.
vice-president and an enthusiast
for the carcass competition and
the raising of beef-cattle to a
higher pitch of excellence in
Australia. At Yarrawonga,
with the aid of a local butcher,
he chalked-out one of his
Aberdeen Angus steers in prime
cuts and current market prices.
This touched the purses and
moved the pens (and in some
cases the hearts) especially of
the budget-conscious women
journalists.
The demonstration will be
repeated at the Show.
Welcome Rain
''The secretary of the Royal
A Agricultural Society
(H. T. C. Woodfull), who led
the party, said on his return that
in spite of the floods the rain
was worth millions of pounds to
the State, and that the standard
of Show-entries would be up
to the best levels of the Mel-
bourne Royal Show.
The tour began with a visit
to the famous Fenwick stud-
farm at Yan Yean owned by
the noted Arab and Shetland
breeder Mrs. A. D. Maclean.
The Fenwick stud, the
biggest in Australia, is run
entirely by women, and some
of the finest stock is raised
there.
From Milk to Tobacco
TOecause of the present slump
in the dairy-industry many
former dairyfarmers in the
Myrtleford area are turning'
their land over to the more
profitable industry of tobacco-
growing.
Beef-cattle
T\/hile many farmers in
” Victoria are concerned in
turning grass into milk and
honey, graziers in the drier
areas along the Murray are
raising prize beef-cattle for the
show-ring and meal-tables both
here and overseas.
The show-place of the tour
was Perricoota Estate, Moama,
N.S.W., owned by R. J. Watson,
This estate of 10,000 acres
is a self-contained township
with its own school, stores and
other essential services,
Besides raising a Beef Short-
horn stud of some 400 head,
the estate carries about 10,000
sheep and a stud-flock of 250
Dorset Horns.


W omen's Letters
MELBOURNE
Mrs. Vi Greenhalf, liaison-officer
between the Royal Children’s Hospital
and the Appeals Committee, organised
the dinner-dance at Troika, Hampton,
for which the proprietor, Jordan Bakiloff,
not only loanecLhis premises but donated
the delectable dinner and gave the con-
tents of the Wishing Well to the Hospital;
the orchestra also gave their services free.
Mrs. Greenhalf received the guests
wearing a gown of mistr-blue guipure-
lace. Among the guests were Mr. and
Mrs. Keith Black (her short frock of
black velvet); Mr. and Mrs. Jim Loft-
house (her choice a sheath-frock of
moss-green - Oriental-silk patterned in a
tiny multicolored flower-design); Diana
Coutts (wearing a white chiffon frock
with the off-shoulder bodice outlined in
black sequins); Margaret Matheson (her
velvet frock powder blue); Pamela
Robinson (who chose i strapless white
taffeta); Grace Beckett (whose sack-frock
was of deep-royal-blue satin); and Mrs.
Harris Lea (her laces in pastel-pink).
# ?r,
Entries are being invited from artists
for the third annual art-competition to
be held by the Robin Hood Committee,
which works for the Helping Hand
Association for Mentally Retarded
Children. There is a prize of £5O for
the best oil-painting and £5O for the best
watercolor or gouache-painting. The
best 100 entries will be exhibited in the
Banking Chamber of the Commonwealth
Trading Bank in Collins Street from
September 19 to October 4, between
10 a.m. and 3 p.m., when works will
be on sale. The opening (by invitation
only) will be performed by National
Gallery director Eric Westbrook.
Another annual function staged by
the Robin Hood Committee is the
Bohemian Ball. This will be held at the
Royale Ballroom on October 3. Instead
of the traditional Montmartre theme in
the decor, a French fishing-village will
be the background for dancers in their
gay costumes. Tickets, 375. 6d. each,
may be obtained from Joan Sutherland
Smith (8L6305), Mrs. Graeme Law
(8J495G), Maria Manning (WA4782), and
Ann Swallow (BM1030).
V- V V
A number of French gowns, brought
here specially for the French Fair, will
be shown at the Metro Theatre, Bourke
Street, at the gala premiere of the film
“Gigi” on September 24. French fabrics
will also be on display, and a Gigi gown,
as worn by Leslie Caron in the film and
made by Hartnell, will be worn by
French mannequin .Marie Lise. Sir
Albert Coates is chairman of the
organising-committee, and Mrs. John
Dynon is hon. secretary. This function
is sponsored by .the Australian-Asian
Association, and the proceeds from the
gala premiere wiil.be given to Inter-
national House. Official guests will
include Lady Brooks and the Lord Mayor
and Lady Mayoress; Tickets are three-
guineas, two-guineas, one-guinea and 10s.,
and may be obtained from Mrs. H. I.
Fader (LB 3303) and Mrs. N. R. White
(WA4883).
English actress Laura James, who made
her debut at the Little Theatre in the
current attraction, “Dinner With the
Family,” has had a varied theatrical
career. A graduate of R.A.D.A., she was
assistant stage-manager for the Bognor
Regis Repertory and toured Ireland with
a Shakspearian company. Since coming
to Australia last year she has appeared
in television-plays for ABV2. Her
hobbies are painting and writing. Photo
by John Vickers (London).
Sir Cuthbert Ackroyd, who is chair-
man of the Victoria League Central
Council in London, and here to attend
a league conference in Adelaide, was
guest-of-honor at a luncheon given at
Ciro’s by the league. In the official
party were Sir Edmund and Lady
Herring (she is depptv-president of the
league),, the Minister for Agriculture, Mr.
Chandler (who represented the Premier),
and the Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress
(Cr. and Mrs. F. W. Thomas). Guests
were received by senior vice-president
Mrs. Guy Bakewell, Mrs. Robert
Hamilton and Mrs. Frank May. They
included the chief of the U.K. Liaison
Staff (Rear-Admiral R. S. Wellby) and
Mrs. Wellby (her attractive citron-yellow
miniature boater trimmed with wattle-
sprigs), Mr. and Mrs. Maurice Sloman,
Mr. and Mrs. F. Hobill Cole, Mr. and
Mrs. E. B. Coles and Mr. and Mrs. L. J.
Dooling.
Janet Cooper, who is one of the most
esteemed and experienced general prac-
titioners of medicine in Melbourne, and
who was the only woman councillor in
South Melbourne, now has become the
first woman mayor of the municipality
in 103 years. It is an important
mayoralty ; South Melbourne was once
just another inner industrial-suburb, but
prosperous businesses, edging in from
the city, have lifted its status. Dr. Cooper
has been practising in one of the wards,
in Albert Park, for more tfyan 30 years, but
pvery spare moment has gone either to
assisting in homes for the aged, or
nurturing babies, or helping health,
maternal or benevolent associations.
She is also president of the Business and
Professional Women’s Club.
CANBERRA
Only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. R. L.
Hawke, AldytH Margaret, was married
at a full-choral ceremony at St. Paul’s
Church, Manuka. The bride’s gown, in
silver brocade and delustred satin, was cut
on simple lines with back fullness falling
into a short train ; a tiara of iridescent
leaves held her fingertip tulle veil, and
her bouquet was of white hyacinths. Mrs.
A. Hewett, bride’s cousin, attended
her as matron-of-honor, and Joan Harvey
was bridesmaid. They wore full-length
frocks in white satin finished with sashes
of moss-green taffeta and matching head-
bands. Adding a touch of spring, their
bouquets were of daffodils and boronia.
The bridegroom, James, youngest son of
Mrs. C. Hutchins, of England, and the
late Mr. Hutchins, had Michael Dennis
as best man and Ken Tratt as groomsman.
After the ceremony Mr. and Mrs.
Hawke, assisted by Mr. and Mrs. A.
Wright, received 90 guests in the candle-
lit reception-rooms of Lawley House,
which was decorated with spring flowers
by Mrs. J. Carrodus. Mrs. Hawke chose
a full-length frock in mulberry taffeta.
During the champagne-reception Mrs.
Albert Arlen sang one of her husband’s
compositions. Guests included Mr. and
Mrs. G. G. Sutcliffe ; Mr. and Mrs. E. K.
Geach; Mr. and Mrs. G. Self; Mr. and
Mrs. A. Rutter and Miss Eve Hearne.
☆ ☆ ☆
Australian and Japanese flags decorated
the reception-room of the Hotel Can-
berra when the Japanese Ambassador,
Mr. T. Suzuki, gave a noon reception
for nine Japanese Parliamentarians during
their two-day visit here.
Two members of the delegation, Mr.
S. Horie and Mr. M. Nomizo, assisted
the Ambassador to receive the guests.
Conversation at the party was animated,
even though each guest-of-honor spoke
through an interpreter. The three-way
conversations were interesting and cer-
tainly added to the friendly atmosphere.
Japanese hors d’oeuvres served included
“Sushi,” a savory of spiced rice set in
brown seaweed and topped with sprigs of
red-pepper to resemble miniature flower-
pots ; another Japanese delicacy was
matchsticks of red-salmon and dried
squid, looking rather like colored pencils
-—but much nicer to chew!


SYDNEY
Theatre-event of the week was the
opening at the Elizabethan of the new
Australian play “Curly on The Rack,” by
Ru Pullan. A midweek first-night is
seldom as well-dressed as those on
Saturday or Friday, and those who wore
evening-dress on this occasion were in
the minority. The author’s wife, Mrs.
Ru Pullan, wore a floral dress and a
grey-squirrel fur. Daughter Pamela’s
dress was white satin sprinkled - with a
flower-pattern and topped with a white
fur stole.
☆ ☆ ☆
A wedding of the week was that of
Anne McCauley, elder daughter of Air-
Marshal Sir John McCauley and Lady
McCauley, to Leslie Alderson Smith, only
son of the late Mr. Leslie Alderson Smith,
of North Sydney, and Mrs. Alderson
Smith, of -Washington (D.C.). The
wedding was celebrated at St. Canice’s
Church, Elizabeth Bay, and the bride
wore a dress of hyacinth-blue wool,
flecked with brown tonings, and a small
brown velvet hat.
* * *
September is the month when the
grounds of Admiralty House, Sydney,
are at their best. So it is good news to
learn that Field-Marshal Sir William
Slim, has again granted the St. John
Ambulance Brigade permission to hold a
garden-fete there next Saturday, Septem-
ber 13.
☆ ☆ *
The Stage and Society Club’s new
premises in Forbes Street was christened
by a successful “opening-party” on
Friday, when Sir John Northcott
addressed the 500 guests, and Dame
Ninette de Valois was a guest-of-honor.
This very active club, founded only a
couple of years ago, first had its being
in Pitt Street. Then, being forced to
move, it was housed at the Edgeclilf
home of Mrs. C. T. Lorenz, who was
one of the directors to find and buy the
present premises, which have been re-
decorated by enthusiastic members of the
club.
Mrs. Edna Roper, who was recently
elected to the Legislative Council, is the
second woman to have this honor. A part
from her activities in the political field,
Mrs. Roper is associated with the Ladies’
Committee of the Sydney Opera House
Fund Appeal, and has interests in litera-
ture and the arts generally . Photo by
Norton Trev aire.
The annual Indian Bazaar in the pic-
turesque grounds of Riverview College,
in support of the Australian Jesuits’ Mis-
sions in India, will be held again next
Saturday afternoon (September 13).
Sydney’s biggest, the bazaar raised
£BOOO last year.
# jji
One of the brightest ideas of the week'
was the formation of a committee to
raise funds for the building of fountains
in the city. Everyone loves fountains,
but there is really only one in Sydney,
the Archibald Memorial, which was
given to the city by J. F. Archibald,
co-founder of The Bulletin. Private
donors will probably make similar pre-
sentations —already two have been pro-
mised. If the idea catches-on Sydney
will be transformed. Even now one is
beginning to see the city in a new light,
noting down one spot after another as
“an excellent site for a fountain.”
The fountain idea came from Sydney
artist Cedric Flower, whose name was
in the news for another reason this week,
for his wife Pat has just had her thriller
Wax Flowers for Gloria published by
Ure Smith. Mrs. Flower is already en-
gaged on writing her second “whodunit,”
which will also have'flowers in some form
featured in the title, a twist which she
will probably continue in all her mystery-
stories.
☆ ☆ ☆
Some lucky young Sydneysiders are
learning, geography the easy way during
the Oriental cruise of Orsova, which sets-
out this week for Rabual, Yokohama,
Kobe, the Inland Sea of Japan, Hong
Kong and Manila. Young people among
the 1300 passengers include 17-year-old
twins Anne and Susan Hartigan, of
Mosman. and 16-year-old Barbara Belyea;
of Gordon, who are travelling with their
parents. Dr. and Mrs. R. F. Dilger, of
South Coogee, have their sons Ronald
(10) and Warwick (7) with them, and
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Hordern, of Kirri-
billi, are accompanied by their eight-
year-old Christine.
The Hollidays
By Middy
“ Darling , he's playing our song!"


pudding”; swam perilously off a pier
with a hammerhead shark; explored
underwater the outer wall of the
'Barrier Reef; and, in his most spectacu-
lar stunt, inserted an artificial leg from
a haberdashery-shop “dummy” into
the mouth of a giant clam to see if it
would grip it. It did. He had to tow
the clam ashpre. still gripping the leg,
to release it.
But it would be misleading to con-
fine a review merely to Dr. Hass’s Aus-
tralian adventures. He has been all
over the world to get the material for
this delightful and fascinating book:
riding a 25ft. whale-shark in the Red
Sea and observing the habits of pilot-
fish (which do not, he says, guide the
shark to its food, but are a kind of
living toothbrush, allowed to shelter
under the shark on condition they eat
the parasites in its mouth); shouting
at sharks off Canton Island; filming
the hunting of the sperm-whale; hob-
nobbing with the lizards on the Gala-
pagos; dreaming of treasure on Cocos
Island.
A story this reviewer particularly
liked is that of the gropers and other
fish in the Caribbean which tried to
eat their own reflections in the mirrors
which Dr. Hass was using to direct the
light for his They
thought their feeding-territories were
being invaded by strangers. One big
groper broke one of the mirrors;, and
when, two days later, Dr. Hass went
down to the depths again, the fish were
all still busily fighting themselves in
the fragments.
"The Catcher"
Though it was first published in
1951, J. D. Salinger’s The Catcher in
the Rye attracted little attention until
1956, when the Customs Department
banned it in Australia.
This caused it to gain a little ground
when the ban was lifted in the general
clear-up of censorship in October
last year, but it wasn’t until July, when
Penguin Books put their seal on it, that
it began to come into its own. It was
then that an article by London critic
Kenneth Allsop revealed that “The
Catcher” has become the centre of a
cult among the high-school and uni-
versity youth of America and England,
some of whom seem to have identified
themselves with its hero to an extent
usually reserved for Deans and
Brandos.
This last is a predicament “The
Catcher” will no doubt outlive, but it
is very understandable. “The Catcher”
is in the class of such books as “The
Great Gatsby” and Isherwood’s Berlin
stories: a minor masterpiece that says
much more than its author seems to
have intended; it is suffused with a
special atmosphere and feeling to which
many different kinds of people, but
especially the young, respond deeply
and personally.
Baldly described, its plot does not
sound very attractive. Holden Caul-
field, aged sixteen, runs away from
high-school just before being expelled,
and spends a few aimless days in New
York because he wants to be alone for
a while before facing-up to his parents
again (this is his third expulsion). Most
of the book is a record of what he sees
and thinks as he drifts Ground the
streets, parks and bars, striking-up
conversations with strangers and visit-
ing friends. He doesn’t know what’s
going to become of him, and, though
he hates worrying his parents, he
doesn’t much care. He has no religion,
no ideals, no aims: only a sort of
personal moral code based on loyalty
to anyone who has been disinterestedly
good to him, a fiercely protective love
of all that is weak and helpless, and
an intense dislike of anything that
strikes him as “phoney.”
“Phoney” is a key word in the book,
and Holden applies it to almost every-
thing he thinks society expects him to
do. This has led some critics —over-
anxious, perhaps, to knock fashionable
books—into dismissing “The Catcher”
as just another sordid, mixed-up-kid,
rebel-without-a-cause novel and its
hero as just another delinquent. But
Holden Caulfield is no worse a delin-
quent than Huckleberry Finn, and his
anarchism is of much the same kind:
a healthy protest against sham, made
in the name of fiecency and integrity;
not a menacing howl in the name of
sheer frustrated egotism. The chief
difference between the two heroes is
one of place and time: Huck could get
away from what he hated and live as he
liked on the river; for the city-bound
Holden there is no escape.
Moreover, “The Catcher” is primarily
a comedy. Holden’s story is full of
unforced humor and a deep apprecia-
tion of the life he can feel under the
social straitjacket. Its protest and
pathos are never emphasised, and it
isn’t until the last chapter that the
underlying tragedy is revealed: that
the hero has been writing his story in a
mental home as part of special treat-
ment. This is not just a wow ending:
the reader has been well prepared for
it. Long before the. end you suspect
that no “normal” boy would behave
quite like Holden. His swift changes
of mood, his deep exhilaration and
awareness mixed with depression and
desperation are familiar symptoms.
This is a source of “The Catcher’s”
irony, and is an essential part of its
structure, enabling Salinger to reveal
so much about -his hero in a short,
unbroken period without forcing an
artificial shape on to the book.
Finally, anyone interested in the
difficult art of writing in dialect will
find “The Catcher” a remarkable per-
formance. Using a very small vocabu-
lary, Salinger handles complex situa-
tions and feelings without once, as far
as I could see, stepping outside the
narrator’s character, and only occa-
sionally slips into tedious repetition.
John Abemethy.
Maoris and Fairies
On the face of it just a dutiful mono-
graph on the history of Marlborough
(at the top of the South Island of New
Zealand) in Maori times, attractively
produced, but hardly to be expected to
be of more than local interest, W. J.
Elvy’s Kei Puta te Wairau (Whitcombe
and Tombs) turns out to be a delight-
ful little banquet of eels, swans, ghosts,
fairies and cannibals.
The fairies are. of course, the white-
skinned, red-haired patu-paiarehe of all
the Maori legends, who, according to
the Kon-Tiki theory, came originally
from Peru; and if Elvy doesn’t add
much to what is generally known of
their skill in playing the flute and
stealing Maori women, at least he con-
tributes to a solution of one problem
which has always puzzled this reviewer:
how did they come to get into New
Zealand folklore at all when, as we
were always told, the Maoris on their
first arrival found the country popu-
lated only by the darker-skinned
Moriori, a branch of their own brown
Polynesian race? They could have
been imported merely as myths; but
the Maori legends all localise them very
firmly in New Zealand.
Elvy has enough (necessarily vague)
evidence in the genealogies and tribal
histories he has picked up from old
Marlborough Maoris to suggest that
the fairies may have made their own
separate migration, long before the
Maoris. In fact he is also inclined to
believe that there was also a migration,
of giants (“Myth or not, many skeletons
of abnormal size have been uncovered
in the sand-dune burials in the district”)
and even, too, of a tribe of “dog-faced
ogres” —though these, he suggests, were
seals.
The fairies provide him, too, with
one' of the best of his ghost-stories:
that, camped in the bush one night, he
heard their voices in the mist . . . How-
ever, taking most of his ghosts, even
the phantom Spanish ship, with a grain
of salt, he adds that these fairy-voices
may, perhaps, have come tame
kaka or tui that had escaped from its
Maori owner.
With these doubtful, if stimulating,
matters, goes a good deal of more prac-
tical information: the teeming bird-life
of pre-European Marlborough, when


We Are Pleased to Announce
Extension of Our
RECORDED MUSIC SECTION
As a further service to our clients, our music section has been enlarged
and is now under the direction of Mr. Arnold E. Miller, late of Palings
of Newcastle. A well-equipped listening booth has been installed, and
in addition to our outstanding range of sheet music and books on all
things musical, we can now offer you a wide range of the finest
long-playing records from the catalogues of the world’s best recording
companies.
We invite you to visit our shop and consult Mr. Miller regarding the
enlargement or starting of a record collection. Our mail order service
is designed to meet the particular needs of country and out-of-town
customers, and a monthly bulletin of records of note will keep you
informed of new releases. Should you wish to receive this bulletin,
please complete the coupon at the foot of this advertisement and
forward it to us.
We commend our new department to you and look forward to being
of service to you.
For all your requirements — books, magazine subscrip-
tions, long-playing gramophone records - consult : —
GRAHAMS BOOK COMPANY PTY., LTD.,
39-49 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY - - BW 2261
TO—GRAHAME BOOK COMPANY PTY. LTD.,
39-49 Martin Place, Sydney.
Please send me your Monthly Bulletin of record releases.
NAME
ADDRESS
Signed
the moa, the extinct eagle, the extinct
goose and the flightless swan as well
as more conventional creatures frolicked
around the fiords; the canals, still in
existence, which the old Maoris dug to
trap the young ducks before they could
fly; the way the Maoris killed eels so
that they would not be bruised for
storage —they sprinkled sand on them;
and, particularly, many notes on the
raids, battles and escapes of Te Rau-
paraha when, driven out of his tribal
haunts at Kawhia but armed with the
deadly musket, he laid waste the
country all the way down the west
coast and across Cook Strait to Marl-
borough, killing, enslaving or eating all
who came in his way.
£500 Novel Prize
Hunter Douglas Australia Pty., Ltd.,
are offering a prize of £5OO for the best
novel suitable for radio-dramatisation.
The competition is open to all writers
normally living in Australia; preference
will be given to Australian themes; and
the main qualities looked for will be
“strength of construction, characterisa-
tion and sustained dramatic interest.”
The firm is sponsoring a “Luxafiex
Book of the Month” programme on
the Macquarie Network, and the
winning entry will be broadcast in
August, 1959. Help will also be given
to publish the winning novel in book
form and as a newspaper serial.
The judges will be Beatrice Davis,
Douglas Stewart and lan Mackay,
production manager of Macquarie.
Entry forms are available from
Macquarie stations throughout Aus-
tralia. Closing date, May 31, 1959.
Reviewed Briefly
They Fought Alone: Maurice Buck-
master (Odhams). This is the stoiy
of the British agents who served in
occupied France during World War II;
Colonel Buckmaster was in charge of
them, as head of Special Operations
Executive. His book is an invaluable
piece of history; amusing and inform-
ally written.
* * * *
Widows Can Be Dangerous: Norman
Leslie (Barker). The private-eye meets
a beautiful and dangerous woman in an
out-of-the-way London pub, and over
drinks she tells him about a millionaire
who has had three Impressionist pic-
tures replaced by fakes. She mentions
the name of an artist who had been
employed by the millionaire. The artist
is out; the private-eye pays a visit to
the beautiful and dangerous woman,
and she is in; dead; murdered—she is
the wife of a curious professor. And so
on. But the private-eye’s narrative
style is worse than one’s little child’s
imitation of Elvis; the “she crossed her
legs, letting the wrap look after itself”
touch sours one as much as he said the
girl did him.
» *• * *
Bid the Soldiers Shoot: John Lod-
wick (Heinemann). A hearty, off-the-
cuff account of the author’s war-time
experiences: with the Foreign Legion
in the fall of France, captured, but
escaped to England; parachuted back
into France as a saboteur, captured
again, but escaped again; finally bagged
in Crete and shifted from prison to
prison-camp in Greece and Serbia; and
liberated at last by a Chetnik massacre
of his captors. Most of it is about war-
prisons and the characters met therein,
some of whom have such colorful back-
grounds that you wonder whether the
author believes everything people tell
him. Still, he makes good copy out of
it, and only occasionally spoils it by
muscle-flexing and chest-beating. The
best parts are those about Greece and
Yugoslavia, perhaps because their
ground is comparatively untrampled by
war-writers.
* * * *
Tale of a Whistling Shrimp: Vladi-
mir B. Grinioff (Hutchinson). The best
part is the title. “We will abandon
Communism when the shrimp learns to
whistle,” said Khrushchev in 1955. So
the author created what the blurb calls
a comic satire to show that Russia has
long ago done just that. But, perhaps
because Grinioff is an American
Russian and not a part of the society
he criticises, it is a shrimp of a satire
and its whistle is far from gay. The
daughter of a provincial bank-official
is accused of holding anti-Party
opinions, and the banker’s efforts to
clear her and save himself from ruin
take him through a series of bureau-
cratic hoops revealing that Russians
are quite cynical about Party ideals
and still practise bribery, nepotism and
class-snobbery on the grand scale. A
good basic idea, but the author fails
to make much out of it.


4- *
■
' j-
mJ
ERG TYPE 2 EPH 27 2-volt Home Lighting Battery. Suitable for 12-J£,
24-V, 32-V, 56-V and 110-V installations. Capacity : 225 ampere hours.
THE NEW ERG
HOME LIGHTING BATTERY
The transparent polystyrene con-
tainer enables you to SEE how
much acid there is in the battery.
Inbuilt floating gravity
balls indicate state of
charge of cells.
Double insulation (including
glass wool) prevents shed-
ding, ensuring longer life.
GUARANTEED FOR 3 YEARS
ERG BATTERIES Pty. Ltd.
156 GOULBURN ST.. SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTED BY:
Erg Batteries Pty. Ltd. - - SYDNEY
Erg Batteries Pty. Ltd. - - BRISBANE
Keep Bros. & Wood Pty. Ltd. MELBOURNE
David L. Prescott - • • - ADELAIDE
Erg Distributors - - • • - LAUNCESTON
J. R. Roe & Company - • - DARWIN
Walter Sully & Co. Pty. Ltd. BROKEN HILL
