

We're above the crowd when it comes to our annual
Giraffic July Trade-In Hill
Phone 80951 now for
an expert valuation
Article
for article
it could be fail deposit
Now you can afford to buy that
gleaming new gas stove or that
popular Victa la winnower . . .
IF you come to A.H’s first. Why?
Because we’ve gone all out to
enable you to scoop up value for
all your family, in every depart-
ment (except electrical & wear-
ing apparel) under our roof. So
be wise, do all your Trade-in
shopping at Anthony Horderns’,
\
mm
// ,fS
m
j
m
1
♦ v
t
tms
k f l
\ :
Vi
■
.“■S'k
1
NCJ
Almost
anything can
he traded-in
Anything from boxing gloves
to a mincing machine and
logic tells us the more we can
allow you to save, the bigger
the business for us. We’ve
167 expert valuators to help
you ... so come in now, you’ll
see that something “old” can
go a long way towards the
new at Anthony Horderns’.
The Bulletin
Drennan— a
Wednesday, July 16, 19S8
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered In Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


STORY
WRITING PAYS
If You Know How To
Write Successfully.
Editors can not obtain sufficient acceptable
MSS. This Student’s acceptances more than
pay for his Course:
"Remittances are coming in frequently:
lam more than paying for the Course.”
Successful STOTT-Trained writers con-
tribute regularly to the press. It will pay
YOU to study with STOTT’S.
Wherever you live, STOTT’S can train
you in your own home. Send the Coupon
—without cost or obligation of any kind
—for STOTT’S Free Literary Prospectus.
m
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereajrb St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Qrenfeli
St.. Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
——— CUT AND MAIL THIS'COUPON
To STOTT'S: Please send me, without any obli
gutiun. yuui Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE (K.R.I tf,fc\
BOOKHimTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service lor readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
JAMES JOYCE'S BROTHER
The surprising thing about Stanislaus
Joyce’s My Brother’s Keeper (Faber) is
that it is not a book about James
Joyce, though Stanislaus obviously
meant to write one, but a book about
Stanislaus himself; and it is no mean
achievement, even if he didn’t alto-
gether intend it, to have made himself
much more interesting, in his own
pages, than his world-famous brother.
Quite a lot about James Joyce does,
of course, emerge from it: notes as to
who was who in the novels, poems and
short-stories, which will be of interest
to anyone trying to unravel their com-
plexities; notes on the origin of the
novelist’s plots, theories and ideas
which very often, so Stanislaus says,
came from Stanislaus’s diary and con-
versation, even to an experiment in
dream-language.
There are personal notes on James’s
brilliance at school and in amateur
theatricals, his frequenting of bawdy-
houses in Dublin, his collapses into
heavy drinking from which Stanislaus
frequently tried to rescue him; his
curious tastes in literature, wherein (in
his youth) he could not read Scott and
Dickens and valued Ibsen above Shak-
speare. There are accounts of his con-
tacts with celebrities—the uproarious
Gogarty, the generous William Archer,
who read his early plays, the “useless”
George Moore and the ever-helpful,
wonderfully considerate W. B. Yeats,
who, in Stanislaus’s clear-sighted, bitter
cynicism, possibly saw in the young
writer a “useful recruit” for his Irish
literary renaissance.
Stanislaus’s attitude to his brother
seems to have been a most complex
mixture of deep and genuine affection,
bitter jealousy and the puritanical dis-
gust, even hatred, he felt for everyone
who enjoyed drink and sex. It is typi-
cal of him that he tells, more-or-less
frankly out of jealousy, or at least in
defence of his own intellectual stand-
ing, a story of seeing some paintings of
the nude in a Dublin art-shop and
remarking that “all those briskets”
reminded him of “a butcher’s shop”;
and the next day James Joyce stole the
remark and repeated it as his own . . .
Stanislaus never once reflects that it
was, in any case, an extremely pro-
vincial remark to make and one that
he might well have been content to let
his brother appropriate.
It is typical, too, that in his early
chapters describing James Joyce’s
brilliance in the home and at school
he says he reminded him, above all
characters in literature, of Steerforth
in “David Copperfield”: Steerforth was
not wholly amiable.
How much of his criticism of his
brother, “fierce, scornful, rude and
cruel,” should we attribute to genuine
concern, how much to jealousy and
puritanism? When, after repeatedly
urging James Joyce to abandon “Finne-
gans Wake” and to write something of
more value, he eventually refused even
to accept a copy of the published book
from his brother, how much of his
criticism was benevolent, how much
was misunderstanding and, once again,
how much was puritanism and envy?
It is a pretty complex question; the
more so because “Finnegans Wake” is
an exceedingly complex book.
Two things are certain: that Stani-
slaus did, at any rate in their early
years, have the greatest affection and
admiration for his brother; and that
in the end he was so well aware of the
equivocal nature of their relationship
that discussing (before he died in 1955)
the title of “My Brother’s Keeper” he
used to explain, “smiling wryly,” says
Richard Ellman in his introduction,
“You know . . . Cain.”
So, even in his pictures of his famous
brother, we are obliged at all times
to consider the curious, savage,
kindly, sad, deeply moving character of
Stanislaus himself. He emerges, chiefly,
as a man capable of profound and
lasting hatred: for the Catholic Church,
for sex and drunkenness, for Lady
Gregory, for Gogarty, for almost every-
thing in that “hateful country” (so he
described it) of Ireland; hatred perhaps
for his brother; and hatred most cer-
tainly and most bitterly of all for his
father. Constantly one is reminded of
that poem by Yeats in which in two
lines he summed-up the problems of his
distressful country; “Out of Ireland
have we come”:—
Great hatred, little room
Maimed us from the start.
But always, it is necessary to add,
the hatred was balanced by some
opposing love: hatred for the church
by love of intellectual freedom; hatred
of the literary and bohemian circles by
love of his brother; hatred of his
brother by that same love; and hatred
of his father by love of his mother.
Stanislaus is by no means a hateful
character; he is well-meaning, witty
in his wry way, disturbing.
Here again, in the violent attack on
the father as in the milder criticism of
his brother, Stanislaus leaves the reader
puzzled to determine how much was
justifiable indignation, how much was
puritanic and sexually muddled rancor.
On the one hand it is most certainly
true, as he continually emphasises, that
drunkenness is only funny when it is
in somebody else’s family; and a father
who in his milder moments merely
repeated over and over again, “Are
you going to win?” while a small boy
was trying to do his homework and
who, night after night in his fiercer or
more melancholy cups, would grind his
teeth and mutter, “Better finish it
now,” might well provoke a justifiable
hatred. On the other hand, James
Joyce, who made much literary use of
him (as he did of Stanislaus), always
got along well with his parent; and, if
he did drink a fair bit and failed to
provide decently for his family, the
father really seems to have been a jolly
old boy, no worse in the last analysis
(unless we accept two of Stanislaus’s
most terrible stories) than the amiable
Mr. Micawber —with whom indeed,
though not with amiable intent, Stani-
slaus once compares him.
As to one of Stanislaus’s most bitter
attacks on him, that he cared nothing
when a younger child died, there is
simply no evidence at all: how was the
small boy to know what his father was
thinking?
The other terrible scene is the death-
bed of the mother, when the father
came in drunk one night, Stanislaus
says, after some weeks of trying to
keep sober, and suddenly burst out
with: — /•
“I’m finished. I can’t do any more.
If you can’t get well, die. Die and
be damned to you!”
Whereupon Stanislaus shouted, “You
swine,” and dashed at him, and the
dying mother half-rose from her bed
to check him, and generally there was
hell to pay . . . appalling.
But it could, all the same, which
(<Continued on page 58)


WONDER
CREASE
The Most Versatile
Lubricating Grease
Ever Developed
Ampol Multi-purpose Grease, containing “Lithium,” is so
versatile you use it on every grease point ... on every
piece of equipment. Tough and tenacious, it resists heat,
cold, water, rust and corrosion; stays in bearings longer,
giving maximum protection to valuable equipment. From
this moment on . . . get the multiple benefits of the new
red wonder grease —Ampol Multi-purpose.
8
Farm Machinery
Complete protection for
shearing machinery, pumps,
windmills and other station-
ary equipment.
Cars, Trucks, Tractors
All chassis points, springs,
shackles, water-pumps, uni-
versal joints, wheel bearings.
Farm
Harvesters, combines,
disc ploughs all
mobile equipment,
including all points
on wheel and
crawler tractors.
Longer-lasting Protection
Ampol Multi-purpose Grease lubricates
under all operating conditions likely to be
met on your property . . . high and low
temperatures ... high and low speed
bearings . . . wet or dry. Thus it can be
used with complete confidence on any
equipment requiring a grease lubricant.
fTTmOTI
rrT^vjrTTm
Wonder Grease


The BULLETIN
Wednesday, July 16,1958
Vol. 79—No. 4092
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; 'Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
A delaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
THE "UNITED FRONT"
TrHE strange thing about the charges
A being made that there was a unity-
ticket for Communists and A.L.P. men
in the ballot for officers of the Com-
munist-run Waterside Workers’ Federa-
tion is the spreading nature of them.
Three or four weeks ago they were
made in Melbourne, names being given,
much to the indignation of the A.L.P.,
which, on reading them, however, be-
came somewhat like Governor Bligh
when he was charged with using bad
language to the officers of H.M.S.
Warrior: “I was so confused and angry
that I could not find speech to reply
and therefore was found guilty.”
Then, after accusations in Brisbane,
the Queensland central executive of
the Labor party announced that
A.L.P. members would face expulsion
if they knowingly permitted their names
to be used on a Communist ticket.
In Sydney after the election Mr.
O’Toole, State secretary of the Feder-
ated Clerks’ Union, said he had sent
to the State Executive of the A.L.P.
a copy of the how-to-vote ticket in the
Waterside Workers’ Federation which
linked the names of A.L.P. members
with those of Communists. But Mr.
Colbourne, State secretary of the
A.L.P., gave a more-or-less solemn
assurance that no charges arising from
the W.W.F. election had been lodged at
the party headquarters. He said that
if any members of the A.L.P. had run
on unity-tickets with members of the
Communist party in the W.W.F. ballot
and they were charged in accordance
with A.L.P. rules the matter would be
thoroughly investigated, and if the
charges were proved, like those in
Queensland, “the penalty would be
expulsion.” At that stage half the
lamp-posts in Sussex Street, Sydney,
carried a how-to-vote card printed by
the Communist-party printery, on
which names of A.L.P. and Com-
munist candidates appeared.
The elections proceeded according
to the normal Kremlin “United Front”
technique, with the Communists win-
ning the key posts hands-down and the
A.L.P. men humbly taking the crumbs.
And the farce of the A.L.P. attitude
is shown by the Hursey case, in which
two decent workers have been victim-
ised and treated as pariahs—far worse
than if they had been convicted of
pillaging and violence, as numerous
instances show —because they will not
pay a levy into the A.L.P. funds en-
forced with brutality by the Communist
leadership.
If it is a crime for any individual
member of the A.L.P. to accept an
alliance with Communist candidates
and let his name appear on the same
ticket with them, what are the A.L.P.
Executive and the A.C.TTJ. guilty of
when they collaborate with the Com-
munists in the brutal and illegal collec-
tion of a levy from members of the
union irrespective of whether they are
Labor or Communist? Or isn’t that
collaboration?
And in any case, what can be the
harm from the A.L.P. point of view
in its members collaborating with the
Communists to secure, inter alia, the
return of Mr. Jim Healy, whom a
Ministry in which their present Federal
leader. Dr. Evatt, was Attorney-
General. appointed (knowing that Healy
was a member of the Communist-party
central committee) a member of
the Stevedoring Commission when
they first constituted it, thus placing
him on the Australian Government
payroll? This, of course, was apart
from the fact that he had been a mem-
ber of the Prime Minister’s Trade-union
Advisory Panel along with that gay
character Mr. Ernie Thornton, who
by flying to Peking escaped question-
ing about the wholesale forgery of
ballot-papers in the Federated Iron-
workers’ elections.
Furthermore, if the A.L.P. is look-
ing for collaborators, why doesn’t it
start at the top? Their Federal leader
and the Communist counsel and Vic-
torian Communist-party secretary Mr.
E. F. Hill worked together before
the Petrov Commission. They sat to-
gether. and the evidence of the fact
that they were working as a team was
available to everybody in court over
several days. Dr. Evatt certainly col-
laborated in the fantastic accusa-
tions of forgery and impropriety and
in the outlook that the only guilty men
concerned in the affair were the Petrovs,
the Prime Minister, the judges of the
royal commission and the witnesses
against the Communists. And then,
of . course, he had correspondence with
Comrade Molotov.
But did the A.L.P. resent his atti-
tude? A few individuals did, both in
caucus and out, but he had the firm
support of the A.L.P. executives in all
his proceedings. Those Federal mem-
bers who protested against his associa-
tions were either forced to climb-down,
like the gallant Mr. Cyril Chambers,
or lost their endorsements, like Mr.
Daley, who for once did not “dilly-
dally.”
; Any member of the party who raised
his voice against the extraordinary pro-
ceedings which followed the issue of
the commission’s report was made to
taste the fruit of martyrdom.
The W.W.F. elections have run true
to the normal axiom of union elections.
When the court-control of ballots—
credit for introducing which the A.L.P.
disputes with the Menzies Govern-
ment —is imposed, then tlfe Communists
are beaten hands-down; but when there
is no court-control and the Com-
munists happen to be in the saddle in
the union the Communists win easily.
The A.L.P. must claim the W.W.F.
to be a Labor-party union, for if it
were rated a Communist union surely
the A.L.P. would not accept a levy
from it for its funds, the Communist
party having been publicly denounced
as traitorous and even treasonable. So
why does not the ballot return Labor
men at the head of all the branches
and sweep the Communists out of
office?
If it is the objective to win all the
offices for Labor in this great union,
why don’t the A.C.T.U. and the A.L.P.
heads put forth a joint effort to that
end?
Seeing that a court-controlled ballot
usually means the ousting of the Com-
munists, why did not the A.L.P. sup-
porters, who say their union is definitely
Labor-political and the members there-
fore due to subsidise the A.L.P. funds
by dint of the vote of an overwhelming
majority, as has been alleged in de-
fence of the attitude on the Hurseys,
apply for a court-controlled ballot?
Finally, how does it come about
that the members of the union who
gave, it is said, an overwhelming
majority in favor of the idea that every
member of it should be compelled to
contribute to the A.L.P. funds, return
the Communist general-secretary, a
Moscow delegate, a member of the
Communist polit-bureau and central
committee, by a four-to-one majority
as seems to have been the case? The
position is only logical if it is premised
that there is a close relationship be-
tween the A.L.P. and the Communists,
who treat Dr. Evatt with as much
reverence as their own leaders.
It is, of course, no excuse for the
A.L.P. heads to say that they cannot
officially take cognisance of all these
matters because charges are not laid.
The way lies open for the officers of
the organisation to investigate the facts
and lay charges themselves. But they
would sooner run to Peking in their
bare feet than do that, if their normal
attitude is any criterion.


"THE SACK" LOOK!


PLAIN ENGLISH
Good Faith and Murder
The reports of further executions in
Hungary, including the brutal one of
an unfortunate woman, a fellow-
Communist of the bloodstained rulers
who was caught because she trusted in
the good faith of the Russian colonialists
who rule her country, sent a fresh wave
of horror through the world.
The men who, in surveying the Aus-
tralian scene, are shocked at the very
idea of the death-penalty for the most
brutal murderer, strongly support in their
official journals the kind of political
murder that has been going on in Hun-
gary and compare it favorably with the
executions of terrorists by the British
in Kenya and in Cyprus. If the two
were comparable, two wrongs would not
make a right ; but there is no comparison.
In Kenya and Cyprus the culprits were
given open trials according to the British
law. They were tried in the presence of
the press, with counsel defending them.
They had the right to give evidence and
produce evidence before judgment was
announced.
In all cases they had the right of
appeal even to the Privy Council, and
sometimes that appeal has been success-
ful. Their cases have been considered
by the Home Secretary. It has been open
for their supporters or those who think
an injustice done to them to have their
cases debated in Parliament, argued in
their favor in the world’s press.
Then their executions have taken place
in the open, and their deaths duly
announced.
The Hungarian victims were political
prisoners. Some were the heads of a de
facto Government: certainly a revolution-
ary Government, but one inducted by the
will of an indignant people applied by
force. Their Government would have
remained a de facto Government if a
foreign army, acting on the request of
a Hungarian minority, had not rolled
over the country and flattened the
majority, crushing them into submission
or flight.
The victims were on the soil of a
foreign Embassy. They were induced
to leave it with a promise from the
Russians and the Hungarian Govern-
ment that they would have safe con-
duct. That undertaking was flagrantly
broken. They were immured in dark-
nes, being left to rot in jail for a year.
If they were tried, we have only the
word of their murderers for it. Certainly,
if they were, they were not tried with
any of the safeguards which surround
the trials of the Kenya and Cyprus
terrorists—no publicity, no press present,
no appeals to the Privy Council ; just
an announcement out of the blue that
they were dead.
They could not have called witnesses
for the defence, for in the Communist
creed any such witness would himself
have been an enemy of the State due
for extirpation. Anybody who argued
their cause in press or Parliament would
have credit for suicidal tendencies.
The incident shows two things which
are worth notice in all their nakedness.
One is the value of Soviet Union Govern-
ment’s new undertakings and therefore
of any agreements likely to be come to
at “summit conferences.” The other is
what the Australian Communist party
really stands for, seeing that it supports
the Soviet line on the suppression of
Hungarian freedom and the murder of
Nagy and his followers.
Mo Quotas, Please!
The White Australia policy has been
assailed from several quarters in the past
couple of weeks. Melbourne University
students organised a protest-campaign;
an Australian clergyman in Singapore
condemned the policy; so did another
one in Sydney ; letters-to-the-editor took-
up the matter in various newspapers ; the
Australian Gallup poll reported that the
proportion of the population opposing
a quota for Asian migrants had dropped
from 61 per cent, to 45 per cent, in the
last four years.
Common to most of these critics is a
desire for more friendly relations
between Australia and the countries of
Asia—whicn is good —and a belief that
a quota-system would help to achieve
that object—which is very poor reason-
ing.
Assuming ‘ that people from Asian
countr.es are affronted oy our exclusive
immigration policy—though many of
them have exclusion policies of their own
—Why should they feet less affronted if
we agree to admit 50 of their nationals
each year? (This is the figure suggested
in the Gallup-poll questionnaire.) In a
way, the quota is more objectionable
than straightout exclusion, since its advo-
cates nearly always assume that there
will be a careful screening before those
to be admitted are chosen. If the White
Australia policy is interpreted as an
assumption of superiority on our part,
what will be thought of a system which
demands the right to handpick would-be
migrants from India, Burma, Japan and
other Asian countries to decide which
50 from each are worthy to become
Australians? What is to be the criterion
of fitness? Health? Education?
Religion? Culture?
Immigration Minister Downer, speak-
ing at the Millions Club in Sydney last
week, strongly . criticised the quota-
advocates. He pointed-out that such a
system would do nothing to ease
population-pressure in Asia and would
raise serious and delicate problems.
What, he asked, would be the quota?
Would there be the same number for
large Asian countries as for small ones?
Would Communist China be given a
quota? Would Japan? “Yet logically,
if we admit the principle of a quota, it
would occasion marked offence to dis-
criminate against 600-million Chinese
and 100-million Japanese. After all, it is
this very discrimination that is disturb-
ing the critics of our present policy. And
a limited discrimination ought to be
just as objectionable to these critics as
a general discrimination.”
It is not likely that many Australian
critics of the present policy want to see
unlimited immigration from Asia, but
if the exclusion policy is wrong, then
nothing short of that is right. To
institute a quota-system would be to
admit an error without really doing any-
thing to correct it. And there is no
authority for saying that the desire to
keep Australia white is an error. On
the contrary, evidence of racial clashes
in other countries, and not only between
white and colored people, gives strong
support for believing it to be right.
A Limit on H. p.
Substantial sections of Liberal opinion
are inclined favorably towards the aims
of the bill to limit hire-purchase rates
and to regulate hire-purchase advertising,
of which the A.L.P. Leader in the Vic-
torian Legislative Council has given
notice.
Although Premier Bolte has stead-
fastly refused to touch h.-p. because it
is now an integral part of the economic
structure, some of his supporters believe
it should be regulated not merely because
of the abuses of some backyard financiers
but also because they fear it is getting
out of hand (whether it is or isn't any-
where near the comparative proportion
with the U.S.) and also because overmuch
of the public's funds is being absorbed
in financing the companies and the
consumers.
John Galbally, who has a large prac-
tice in petty sessions as w r ell as the higher
courts and can therefore quote pretty
well at first-hand a string of cases of
usury, has put forward a sober enough
bill.
It provides a ceiling-rate for interest-
charges, a plain statement in advertising
of the cash-price and -the total amount
W'ith interest, an equity in the goods for
the buyer, and some breathing-space
against repossession, and the right to
pay-off during the currency of the
contract.
Galbally's previous attempts to interest
the Victorian Parliament in regulating
h.-p. have not been successful, probably
because the public, w'hich pays the
interest rates and generally shows little
concern about them, despite all Labor’s
efforts during the recent elections, has
been apathetic ; but there has been a
hardening of Liberal opinion, nonetheless,
that it should be put on a fair footing.
Meat Talks Break Down
[From Canberra]
Although they knew that,in London the
negotiators for new minimum prices under
the 15-year meat-agreement between Aus-
tralia and the U.K. were meeting diffi-
culties, Federal Ministers were not alto-
gether prepared for the sudden break-
down of the talks.
The seriousness of the situation is seen
in the decision of the Government to
recall the Australian delegation for


further on-the-spot briefings before dis-
cussions resume in London in August.
If, as it has been suggested, the talks
collapsed because Britain has refused to
pay the minimum prices Australia is ask-
ing, Cabinet could have an emergency on
its hands just before the elections.
The London discussions, which began
on June 16 and ended so abruptly last
week, were to determine the minimum
prices under the agreement for beef and
veal for the three-year period beginning
on October I, 1961, and for mutton and
lamb for the three years beginning
October 1 this year.
In addition, the negotiators were try-
ing to set the Australian beef-export free
quota for 1958-59, which represents the
maximum quantities of beef and veal that
may be exported to countries other than
the U.K. and the colonies.
Primary Industry Minister William Mc-
Mahon will see the delegation immedi-
ately on its return, and further top-level
conferences will be held with the Aus-
tralian Meat Board.
The outcome of these discussions will
go to Cabinet, bef.ore the delegates return
to London. Meantime the board is look-
ing into the possibility of selling more
meat in the U.S.
The Government is faced with the posi-
tion of the meat-industry already com-
plaining about some aspects of export
practices and with the desire to ensure
that exports of Australian primary
produce are not hit in the same manner
as New Zealand produce was earlier in
the year.
Proposals to increase freights on meat
between Australia and Britain and
Europe could also have a serious affect
on the meat-export trade, with conse-
quent lower net returns to producers.
Bloodbath in Cyprus
Events of the past week in Cyprus
illustrate the dilemma in which the
United Kingdom Government finds it-
self, and puts a little more blood on the
hands of those who triggered-off the war
and murder which have made history in
the island in the past three years.
The ambitions of the Greek politicians,
aided and abetted conspiratorially by
heads of the Greek Church like Makarios,
have been responsible for the present
situation—and there is the usual back-
ground of do-gooder American and no-
good Russian propagandists.
The British have had to fight not only
insurgents but their own busybodies who
would always sooner listen to foreign,
and particularly Russian and American,
propaganda than their own. Also, they
have had to keep in check the racial feel-
ing on the island, the motto there being
with the Greeks: “If the Turks are for
it I’m agin it” —and vice versa with the
Turks.
The insurgents having failed to secure
their ends by terrorism, which seems to
have been encouraged and approved by
busybodying politicians and churchmen
who have lent countenance to their view-
point and leadership, have ' now des-
cended to the worst and most barbaric
device they have at their disposal, the
fanning of racial hatreds. There is no
doubt that for the past month or so
Eoka has been working to produce civil
war, confident that the Greeks in the
majority can throw the Turks into sub-
mission or into the sea. Neither Greek
nor Turkish Constitutional leaders desire
this—they recoil from it as much as the
best of them have recoiled from the cold-
blooded murder with weapons from the
Makarios arsenal.
The rebel leader, Grivas, however,
during the week issued an oily com-
munique from his hide-out in which he
announces that if the British with their
30,000 men will not protect the Greeks
from the Turkish minority he is going to
do it.
For the British to abandon Cyprus
would certainly mean civil war and per-
haps occupation by Turkey, which .his-
torically has at least as much claim to
Cyprus as Greece, and geographically
much more.
It also might mean any kind of general
conflagration. Certainly something far
worse for the Cypriots than a British
occupation which lifted them up by the
bootstraps from a precarious barbarian-
ism of poverty into prosperity and
security by Levant standards.
If the British had not been in occupa-
tion round 1923 the Greeks undoubtedly
would have met the same fate as the
Anatolian Greeks during the Turkish war.
Gratitude, however, does not seem to be
a major Greek-Cypriot quality.
This Freedom!
The Federal Government’s decision to
introduce legislation to ban compulsory
political levies by either employers’ or
employees’ organisations will be a justi-
fiable move towards scotching the totali-
tarian tendencies of the new “united
front” of Labor and Communism which
has become so arrogant in its demands to
be allowed run the country as a one-
party State in the past few months.
There is no answer to the logic of the
Government’s stand. Nobody has been
so insistent as the A.L.P. and its leaders
that this must be a nation in which the
“Four Freedoms” are deeded to the
people by legislation. Yet nobody has
ever been so impudently determined to
scotch the freedom of anyone who does
not conform to the expressed opinion of
dragooned or pliant “toiling masses” than
the professed lovers of democratic freedom.
Mr. F. H. Campbell, president of the
A.L.P., says that the bill will be “an
ineffectual attempt to deprive the Labor
party of its traditional financial support
from the unions.” Yet if alf the A.L.P.
union-levies are given, as they should be
given, gladly, no legislation of this sort
can affect the issue. The money will
still come in.
Unionists will still be able to contri-
bute in levies as much and as often as
they like. But if they don’t like, they
will be at liberty to act according to
their consciences, and outside a Com-
munist country it is unbelievable that any
responsible political leadership should
think otherwise, much less believe, as
Labor from its head down apparently
does, that it is equitable that ruin should
be the punishment for non-compliance.
It is only to be hoped that when the
bill is brought-down it will not be a
milk-and-water production, and that the
penalties for denying a man the right to
live because he refuses to become a
political slave of the A.L.P. or anyone
else will be salutary enough to deter both
the union and the individual leaders
responsible. Permanent deregistration on
the ground that it is not a genuine union
would not be too much for a body which
act as the W.W.F. acts towards its
members.
Queensland Homebuilding
It looks as if Queensland will shortly
be in for a surge of homebuilding, now
that its Government, per T. A. Hiley,
Treasurer and Minister for Housing, has
come up with a guarantee to be put into
operation through the Co-operative Ter-
minating Building Society Movement.
The movement, working under Govern-
ment guarantee, has for almost 20 years
been a feature of homebuilding activities
in N.S.W. and Victoria. Over £l2O
million has been lent in N.S.W.; the
Victorian figure is in excess of £SO
million. Queensland’s Labor Govern-
ment had long resisted supplying the
necessary guarantee.
Already a number of societies have
been formed throughout Queensland, and
the Commonwealth Savings Bank of Aus-
tralia has advanced £400,000 to societies
in Brisbane, Maryborough, Townsville,
Rockhampton and Toowoomba. It is
anticipated that the other savings-banks
and insurance-cos., as in Victoria and
N.S.W., will subscribe liberal finance to
the scheme.
Radiation Dangers
JFrom Canberra]
Under the chairmanship of Professor
Sir Macfarlane Burnett, 0.M., the
National Radiation Advisory Com-
mittee has felt obliged to advise the
strict tightening-up of health laws
throughout the Commonwealth.
The most dramatic of the committee’s
recommendations is that in future all
types of leukaemia should be declared
notifiable diseases.
After the most careful examination of
the problem lasting over more than 12
months the committee feels that:—
Action similar to that taken by certain
States in using the Model Act and Regula-
tions prepared by the National Health and
Medical Research Council to bring many
of the sources of ionizing radiation under
legislative control should be taken by the
other States as soon as possible.
Radiation-doses to the individual and to
the population as a whole arising from the
medical use of X-rays for diagnostic
purposes should be reduced without delay
by administrative and technical action.
The strongest consideration should be
given to the licensing of X-ray equipment
to be used by medical practitioners for
diagnostic purposes.
The recommendations affect all
Governments and will be the first matter
for discussion at the next meeting of
Federal and State Health Ministers.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS”
TOCSIN
“A survey by Mrs. Marilyn Stacey and Mr.
S. M. Barker for the N.S.W. Council of Social
Service recommends a committee to encourage
employment of physically handicapped people.”
There’s nothing quite so much enjoyed,
Except if you’re afraid of Freud,
Than bed, when you are feeling crook,
With an inedifying book:
O Physically Handicapped,
Beware before they have you trapped!
Of course, there’s some whose lives are
starker —
Mrs. Stacey, Mr. Barker
And the Social Service Council
May aid those the quacks pronounce ill
Permanently, not resigned
To sitting still while maimed and blind.
Beware, ' though, lest the movement
spread
To the influenzal bed —
The boss arriving full of smiles:
“Try sorting-out these ancient files” —
KnoMdng, of course, how irked you’d
be
With , ten days’ inactivity.
Or say a foundry crane should crack
And break your arms and legs and back
And then some clever-dicks propose
Polishing castings with your nose . . . ?
It’s time we formed a League of Lurk
To save the casual-sick from work!
N.S.W. S WILLIAM.
*:* »j» *j* '
Tn a bus: “ Those people have been
a long time trying to sell their
house.” “Yes, and it’s a beautiful
property. But I heard that the new road
will go through the two front rooms, and
1 suppose that would make a difference.”
—“W.M.”
•£• •!*
“Spur W.”: The dangers of political
life: headline from our northern N.S.W.
paper advises: “Senator’s Seat in Melting
Pot.”
■*j* ♦♦♦ *
“Alfred Armour”: Courtesy-
campaign: The platform attendant at
Sydney Central was courteously direct-
ing passengers to the first- and second-
class seats: ' “First-class to the left!
Second-class to the right!” A young
thing high-heeled her way down the plat-
form with baby in arms, and, hastening
to her side in the regulation chivalrous
manner, the attendant asked: “First or
second?” “Oh!” said the girl, her face
as red as a Sinatra jumper. “Oh, dear,
it—it’s not mine.”
❖ ❖ •
“Bagot”: For purposes of office-
presentations a Perth warehouse avoids
time-wasting contribution-canvassing by
making deductions of sixpence from
each weekly pay-envelope—a profitable
scheme for the lass who weds after a brief
stay, but a dead loss for the bloke who
retires after many years of service.
* ■<£♦ *
“Cayenne”: Adelaide “Advertiser” ran
an ad. addressed to “girls from 16-88
years” for the position of “Junior
Typist-clerk.” Is it eternal youth for
S.A. typists, or just a case of prolonged
inefficiency?
❖ ❖ *;♦
“Ardoyne”: As from the end of May,
electrical retailers in Melbourne agreed
to cease advertising TV-sets for “no
deposit,” but emphasis seems to have
“Extraordinary thing — these
blighters Walk upside-down !”
“Extraordinary thing - these
blighters walk upside-down !”
merely switched from that to other
inducements, Trade-ins now range from
“generous” to “mammoth,” some dealers
offering to take your old furniture, electri-
cal appliances, disused household equip-
ment —anything, in fact, except your
mother-in-law.
. * ♦> •£♦
“Kanimbla”: A Sydney w'estern-
suburbs paper records the impressions
of two girls returned from a world
working-tour. In the U.S. many young
married women they met were in their
teens. They disapproved—it prevented
girls from seeing something of the world
when young, as they and many other
Australian girls were doing.
♦>
“Bird”: I read of a show of refrigera-
tors painted by some of France’s lead-
ing artists for £12,000 each. As giver
of the show, Jean Cocteau said, “Paint-
ing on refrigerators is a victory over the
negative style of emptiness.” But our
fridge would have to go empty inside to
pay for an exterior like that.
S* ❖ **
“Bicky”: “If I don’t chop down on
my deductions,” he said, “they’ll be
refunding me more money than I paid-
out in taxes.”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Doric”: How most of us would like
to be in the position of the Englishman
who, not liking the way he was treated
in his golf club, bought it and now
makes his own rules! I would start
on my bank and sack the manager who
refused me an overdraft. I would soon
acquire a number of country hotels—
there would be the one where I was
refused dinner at 6.35 p.m., the many
whose booking-clerks uttered a surly
“We’re full up,” when I asked for accom-
modation, and the numbers who had no
porter to carry my luggage. Then I
w'ould go for the theatres, particularly
those that gave me seats in the back
row at the side, behind a post —when
I later found the place half-empty. Sorry
I couldn’t buy post-offices—l’d love to
have the opportunity to dismiss those
attendants at the counter who have never
heard of “Service with a Smile.”


TAKE APE
WKH CONFIDENCE
HPhe dictum that the lord of creation
is tougher than the daughters of
Eve has been whittled away. Nearly
every doctor will attest that the so-called
softer sex can stand up to continued pain
with greater fortitude than a man.
Women can, because of an additional
layer of subcutaneous blubber, endure
cold, and especially cold water, far better
than men. Women are gradually closing
the time-gaps in sports in which both
sexes can participate; and some whip-
cord Amazon may yet break the tape
over the 100yds. in 9.25ec., or some
muscle-bound Russian weightlifter’s
heart be broken on seeing a cruciform
lift of 6001b.' or so being elevated over
a blonde perm. Anyway, the department-
stores also believe that man is now
a mere object of pity and contempt:
just take a gink at the window-dummies.
You’ll note the pansy,, man, looking
sheepish in sleeved' woollen singlet and
ankle-length woollen underpants; in
juxtaposition you'll see the tougher Eve,
tenuously draped in the lightest spring
creation, serenely ignoring the 4,5-deg.
temperature. —“Bo.”
❖❖ - ❖
“R.”: If Australian -Rules football is
such a gentlemanly game compared with
rip-tearing, tackling Rugby, why does
my Queensland daily, when listing the
results of Melbourne football, always
refer to Footscray as “Footscrap”?
❖ »> *l*
“Two Jays”: It might have made a
good joke for a Bulletin artist, but I
didn’t think it could really happen—yet
there they were, two vans outside the
Commission house ; one to take away the
repossessed furniture, the other to install
the television-antennae on the roof.
“Crick”: Melbourne City Council is
blitzing the purveyors of saveloys,
sausages and pies ; an official description
of a snag: “Sausage-meat enclosed in a
casing containing 75 per cent, meat, of
which not more than a third is fat.” This
means 50 per cent, meat, 25 per cent. Tat
and 25 per cent, unknown. They weren't
called “mystery-bags” for nothing.
❖' ❖ ❖
“Cut-and-Thrust”: Re new rates of
-pay, a suspected bachelor is circulating
an amendment-to the drill-book:
Frc/m July, ’5B, married men will draw pay
as follows: '
Married men will report to the paying-
officer with Bags, Kit Universal (when worn-
out through heavy use this item will be replaced
by Buckets, 13in.). Married members will be
paid in multiples of 10-notes (there being no
provision for married men to draw less
than £10).
At the beginning of the count the paying-
ofhcer will stand the paying-staff at ease.
When the count is completed he will give the
command: "Attention —Fill!" The married
man will then take one pace forward, at the
same time bringing the mouth of the bag/
bucket in line with the lop of the table,
holding it firmly with the left hand, while at
the same time extending the right hand in a
sweeping motion. The order, “Scoop,” will
then be given. The married man will then
begin filling the bag/bucket, assisted by the
paying-clerk, who will push the pile of money
from the rear.’ This order will usually have
to be repeated. When transfer of last married
man’s money to the bag/bucket is complete,
the paying-officer will give the command,
“Forward, peasants!’’ whereupon two
members of the single men’s duty-
platoon will double forward and assist the
married men with their pay. In the event
of a married man drawing full pay. the Bn.
orderly-officer will be informed, so that he
may order the duty-vehicle to stand by.
❖ ❖
“Dicky”: The Queen (or anyone
else) going to the Scilly Isles for
a holiday (B. 25/6/’5B) would, I’m
sure, be met with a courtesy not
often found elsewhere. There, a few years
ago, we sought permission from a flower-
farmer to roll out our sleeping-bags
under a hedge, and when we refused the
invitation from the whole family to stay
with them they said that, anyhow;
they’d leave the back door always open,
just, in case we wanted to come in. We
accepted their offer of at least giving us
breakfast, but they emphatically refused
payment. Wishing to catch a bus, we
asked a cheerful, bearded character what
time it left, and discovered that it had
already gone. “But,” said The pleasant
stranger, through his ginger beard, “my
bicycle is just up the road in the vicarage
garden, and if you really wanted to catch
him one of you could ride and dink the
other on the handlebars.” We noticed
that if a person didn’t nod and say good-
day he was a visitor to the Scillys.
v
“Bicky”: Clifton Hill (Vic.) residents
near the intersection of Queen’s Parade,
Gold Street and Michael Street are well
catered for with tonics, for on three of
the corners there are chemist-shops,
whilst on the fourth is a pub.
* *z*
Chas. C. Deland: “Eejaypee,” “Sump”
and “Lorna Doone” are in some measure
correct. The cars they mention were
assembled from overseas parts. Engines
made by Continental of U.S.A. were put
into even the Glasgow tractor, of which
only one came to Australia. The Chic
was assembled in Adelaide from the
Meadows engine, Wrigley axles, Rubery
Owen frames, etc., with Adelaide body-
work. About the same time a Sydney
doctor developed a sports type with ply-
wood body which eliminated the frame,


the present common practice. The Weege
(correct spelling Wege), with the “beauti-
ful streamlined polished - aluminium
body” was powered by a three-cylinder
engine two-stroke, built to the inventor’s
design by G.D.S. at Altrincham, Eng-
land, as were the body, radiator and
windscreen. These were put into an
M.A.B. chassis bought in France, as the
English manufacturers would not supply
without engine. The engine wore out this
chassis in over 100,000 miles in England,
Scotland and Australia. The first demon-
strated was built in Adelaide foundries
and workshops and mounted in White
Steam chassis dismantled and taken to
England for test and redesign. The three-
cylinder car-engine is being given to the
Sydney University of Technology with
jts history, etc., by such authorities as
Dr. Ricardo, Professor A. M. Low and
J. Hammersley-Heenan, of Heenan and
Froude, Ltd. A system of hydraulic
transmission direct from engine flywheel-
pump to each or any of the wheel-hubs
through flexible tubing was tested success-
fully ; it eliminated gear-box, differential
and all transmission to stub-axles.
❖ ♦♦♦
“Sevenelms”: Not all the peepers are
Toms (B. 18/6/’5B), as the Golden
Chance cabaret at Las Vegas (U.S.A.)
demonstrates to the embarrassment of
Peeping Thomasinas. Just inside the
powder-room door is an Apollo Bel-
vedere with an intriguingly hinged fig-
leaf, on research into which a siren
screams ; and a blushing victim regains
the dance-floor to the accompaniment
of a roll of orchestral drums and the
plaudits of the initiated.
♦j •&
“Glen Park”: In warm sunshine Prime
Minister Menzies. opened the Eyre
Peninsula Old Folks’ Home at Pt.
Lincoln, climax of four years of hard
work by Eyre Peninsula residents. Sub-
sidies were granted by both Federal and
State Governments, the builder was a
local man, and the majority of sub-
contracts were let locally. The home,
overlooking Boston Harbor and the town,
has accommodation for 19 elderly folk
and a staff of five ; the Bush Church Aid
Society is staffing it.
<s• *3*
“Fontaine”: A woman on a crowded
St. Kilda tram left her seat, went to
the door, and bought a newspaper from
a boy at the tram-stop. When she
returned her place was occupied by a
man who refused to budge. Oh for the
spacious days when G. K. Chesterton
was able to walk into his office and report
virtuously that he’d just given up his seat
on the bus to three women!
♦♦♦ ♦>
“J.S.”: My regular weekly Dublin
letter arrived a day late bearing two
endorsements, one reading “Duty Free
Customs,” the other “Plant Division,
Quarantine, Canberra,” but with no sign
of examination of contents. Now, what
made the authorities suspect that the
enclosed ticket in- the Irish Sweepstake
on the Grand .National was contra-
band, and Why no visible mark of the
envelope having been opened? Good
work, Customs!
“Liewah”: Queue at the trunk-line
phone-booths of the post-office, and inti-
mate details of a phone conversation
floating from the interior of a box . . .
“Nothing very private about it, is there?”
commented a woman. “That’s why they’re
called public phones, dear,’* explained her
lord.
“Narumee”: Blurb for serial in
woman’s magazine: “Something in her
blood came leaping upstream like
salmon.” No fury like a woman
spawned?
“I'll cut Daddy's old suit down for
you, Egbert."
KICKS AND SIDE-KICKS
“Petitioner said her husband had a -vicious
temper, and whenever his team lost a football-
match he would come home drunk and kick
her.” —Court report.
The punter who has backed a moke
Because he's tempted by the price,
Might with his anger well-nigh choke
At hearing it was “on the ice.”
But by the time he’s hoofed his way
From course to home at close of day.
His betting-tickets torn-up, this is
The usual drill: although he'd like
To start a good domestic yike,
He’s too damn tired to belt his missus!
A golfer might have struck a “patch’’
And lost six balls, or missed a nine-
inch putt to lose a vital match —
He’d take a view quite saturnine
About all this. But would he speed
Off to his roof-tree and proceed,
While yet with black rage he was danc-
ing,
To take it out upon his strife
With upswung club? Not on your life!
Damage to IT he’d not be chancing!
But this bloke, who put heart and soul
Into his game, each waking thought
Concerned with tries and shots at goal —
When match was lost, then, over-
wrought
He’d rush off from the stricken field,
And on his ball-and-chain he’d wield
His studded boots . . .All, well! The
fact is
(Let’s see it from his point of view,
As all broad-minded men must do)
He felt he needed kicking-practice!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


INDUSTRY AND THE RAILWAYS No. 4
X
1
m
w
&
IS
1
x
'. >
r- v§- / Tc\
C
s
„,%, i y > ~
<* v;
S(
OFZ
SJP
%
<%•
4-
q:
Uj
Q
CO
Co
<<v
'mX
J3J
Huge tonnages of fruit and vegetables received in any one week at
the Sydney Markets-—amongst the five largest in the world would
have sustained Napoleon's Grand Army for five months those of
Hannibal and Marlborough for a year and a half.
Through 2,500 retail merchants, the Members of the N.S.W. Chamber
of Fruit and Vegetable Industries, market and distribute 85% of the
fruit and vegetable produce of this State meeting the continuous
demand of 3? million urban and rural consumers.
For over a century the New South Wales Government Railways has
played a vital part in the movement of the agricultural wealth of this
State to the terminal markets.
For twenty-four hours in every day, the Railways are freighting meat,
flour, buffer, sugar, cheese, milk, fruit and vegetables the very essentials
by which we live .
In playing such a dominant role in the collection and distribution of
the wealth of this State, the New South Wales Government Railways
is serving many industries helping, to a better standard of living,
people living within reach of its mighty network.
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT


POLITICAL POINTS
Saturday’s by-election for __ the S.A.
Assembly seat of Mt. Gambier, held till
his death last month by Independent John
Fletcher, gave S.A. Labor its second by-
election win in 12 months. Scores:
Ralston (A.L.P.), 3336; Cocks (L.C.L.),
2343 ; Barry (Ind.), 1885. It is,not likely
that Barry’s preferences will disturb
Jtalston’s lead.
After the general election in March,
1956, the position of parties was: L.C.L.,
21 ; A.L.P., 15; Ind., 3. The Wallaroo
by-election reduced the L.C.L. total to 20
and brought Labor’s numbers to 16 —
now increased to 17. A win for the
L.C.L. on Saturday would have given
Playford’s party an overall majority
excluding the Speaker. As it is, Uncle
Tom will still have to depend on the
goodwill of Independents.
• •
Humpty Doo, the Northern Territory
rice-project, is to get an injection of a
million dollars, according to L. J. Hooker,
just back from America. The dollars
are to come from a Los Angeles engineer-
ing concern which has already put half-
a-million dollars into the rice-bowl.
• •
Sir Herbert Hyland has further
damaged the Country party, which he
leads in Victoria, by describing Premier
Bolte as a mongrel and Minister for
Lands Turnbull as a rat in the opening
hours of the new sittings of Parliament;
and Bolte has added to his stature by the
gentlemanly manner in which he asked
for a withdrawal while appreciating that
Hyland was under a strain and offering
to apologise if it could be shown he had
misquoted Hyland during the election
campaign.
The most charitable explanation of>
Hyland’s outburst is that he was in-
deed very sick during the campaign—
he entered hospital for a week, but had
to remain seven weeks —and he had to
read and hear impotently the fighting
campaign the Liberal Premier conducted.
Some Vic. Country-party members
are sympathetically inclined to the L.C.P.,
and there is more than a possibility one
or two could be driven to crossing the
floor to the Liberals. Only one recruit
is needed in the Legislative'Council to
give Bolte an absolute majority in both
Houses.
• •
N. S. Wales Conservation Minister
Wetherell has said he will resist any
attempts by caucus to reverse Cabinet’s
decision to end the Snowy Mountains
-grazing-leases. Seiffert, M.L.A. for
Monaro, prime mover of the present
attempt to upset the ban, took a batch
of Labor members for a tour of the area
and is counting on their support for his
move and for his contention that grazing
is not a serious factor in causing erosion.
Wetherell, however, is supported t>y de-
partmental opinion and by the inde-
pendent authority of C.5.1.R.0. scientists.
The graziers who have been using the
Snowy leases are losing a valuable privi-
lege and are naturally not very happy at
the prospect, but the case for the ban
seems very strong.
• •
Speaking at the opening of an elec-
tronic data-processing machine in the
M.L.C. building, North Sydney, Harold
Holt said that electronic computers might
serve to keep the growth of the Com-
monwealth Public Service within reason.
Possibly he’s right, but if the electronic
brains follow the example of all other
Government instrumentalities and be-
come self-reproducing we’ll be worse off
than ever. The ultimate nightmare for
the taxpayer would be to have one of
the things as chairman of the Public
Service Board.
• •
“C.S.”: Two Pentridge warders, who
had allowed two nurses to have a look
round the jail one night, including a peep
into the condemned cell, were sacked
by the Victorian Public Service Board.
One had 13 years’ service and the other
two, and it was not suggested at the
inquiry there had been any impropriety,
but “Truth” had headlined it —“Nurses
Smuggled Into Jail!” —and Pentridge has
had a bad press recently because of
unnecessary secrecy about trivialities.
“We were the bunnies,” said one of
the sacked men, complaining that
unauthorised stickybeaks were continually
in the jail at weekends. They lost their
jobs and their superannuation, heavy
penalties indeed. Serious trafficking is
rife at Pentridge—O’Meally got a gun—
but the Public Service Board apparently
thought this was the cardinal crime. The
villains had flouted the -Public Service
Act!
• •
[From Canberral
For the first time since TV was introduced
in Australia late in 1956, viewers have the
doubtful pleasure of looking forward to. the
large-scale employment of the medium at the
forthcoming general elections. Leaders of the
main political parties' have already made their
television debuts and a host of lesser lights are
beginning to preen themselves for the cameras.
The Australian Broadcasting Control Board
will doubtless have a say in the allocation of
overall time, but as a general principle all
stations —both national and commercial —will
have to offer equal time for the major parties.
This procedure is already followed in broad-
casting and the policy speeches broadcast from
election meetings usually hold interest; opinion
is widely divided whether other propaganda
draws large listening audiences.
Commercial stations will find it novel to tele-
cast scenes from big rallies along the lines
envisaged by the national stations, but after
that the political parties will have to find the
money for TV as they do for broadcasting
time.
The rallies with their crowd-scenes and plat-
forms of impressive-looking people shouldn’t
be hard to take, but how will viewers react
to individuals hammering-out propaganda in
short snappy messages?
Menzies admits that political parties have a
lot to learn about TV. He wonders whether
people would sit for an hour watching him
deliver a policy-speech in the same manner
as they apparently sit through an hour-long
broadcast-speech.
“Maybe we can make a bit of soup out of this, Bob!”


Will the Federal election-date depend
on whether Cahill pulls an early N. S.
Wales poll put of his pocket when he
gets back from America? There’s a
hint that he will try for an early State
election, to capitalise on anything he may
have to report from the American capi-
talists and to stop the D.L.P. from butting
in, as that splinter-group is reserving its
major ammo, for Evatt and Co.
• •
There was an echo of beer-famine days
in the Federal Bankruptcy Court in
Sydney last week when a man told the
court he had carried-on business for
years as an unlicensed liquor-seller. In
the early postwar years, operating in a
lane near his home and working on a
basis of about 100 per cent, gross profit,
he had made a lot of money. Ten-o’clock
closing had cut down his business, he
said, and an income-tax assessment and
fines had forced him to go bankrupt.
Assets, £67 Bs.; liabilities (to the Deputy
Commissioner of Taxation), £2570 15s.
Asked his occupation, he said he had
described himself to the Taxation Depart-
ment as a social organiser—it sounded
better than sly-grogger.
• •
An increase in exports of Australian
coal may result from the visit next month
of Japanese steel-men in search of coking
coal. In 1957 coal-exports to Japan
totalled 451,000 tons and for the half-
year ended June 30, 1958, the figure was
209,000 tons. t
• •
When Brisbane “Courier-Mail” ran an
article praising S.A. Premier Playford
for giving his State cheap electricity by
developing Leigh Creek coal W. C.
Coutts, Labor M.H.R. for Griffith, wrote
in to say that the reason Playford had
been able to do this was because the
Commonwealth Government had built,
at the Australian taxpayers’ expense, “a
modern standard-gauge railway 157 miles
in length from Port Augusta to Leigh
Creek and that instead of charging the
economic freight-rate of 345. 6d. a ton,
as a result of Sir Thomas PI ay ford’s
approach to the Commonwealth Govern-
ment this has been reduced to 11s. 6d.
per ton —an uneconomic rate.” He
added that if Queensland electricity-users
were given similar Commonwealth assist-
ance S. A. “would not continue to belt
the socks off Queensland in industrial
expansion.”
Coutts seemed to have something there,
but Federal Treasurer Fadden leaped into
the argument to point out that the freight
agreement had been made by the Curtin
Labor Government in 1943, the actual
Minister responsible being Senator Col-
lings, a Queenslander; also that the
agreement to standardise the railway to
Leigh Creek was signed by the Chifley
Labor Government in 1949. Finally,
that the Codings freight-rate was 6s. 6d.
a ton, in perpetuity, whereas the Menzies-
Fadden Government had negotiated a
rise to 11s. 6d. a ton, to be revised
periodically ip accordance with costs.
Coutts’s argument is still valid, as be-
tween States. But any political gain he
sought from it has been turned to loss.
'y% - v : ..
o •
N. S. Wales Labor Council is to ask
the Cahill Government to appoint addi-
tional workers’-compensation judges in
order to speed-up the hearing of cases —
it is claimed that there is a delay of 18
months to two years, due to the shortage
of judges. So far, so good, but the
council is also making another request —
it wants the Government to consult it
on whom to appoint. This piece of
audacity was proposed by Communist I.
Young, of the W.W.F. If it is accepted,
the next demand will probably be the
appointment of judges by the Labor
Council.
• •
R. J. M. (John) Newton, the Q.C. who
has been selected as Liberal candidate
for the North Sydney seat in the N. S.
Wales Assembly at present held by Labor
M.L.A. Ray Maher, has held almost
every office in local branches of the
Liberal party. In World War II he served
with H.Q. 11th Brigade in New. Guinea,
taking time off in 1944 to stand (un-
successfully) for Drummoyne. When he
described North Sydney as “a sewer,”
The Bulletin felt it rather a strange
comment from a man who aspired to
represent the district in Parliament. How-
ever, Newton went on to say that North
Sydney was a sewer through which trans-
port passed to and from other suburbs,
but which derived no benefit from the
new traffic-plans. He feels that transport
is still North Sydney’s No. 1 problem.
9 t
“Collins Street”: Apropos Tom
Maltby’s disputed victory in Geelong (B.
9/7/’5B) on the grounds that book-
matches allegedly were given away by
him or on his behalf to electors: You
can give to your heart’s content before
an election without alarming the Court
of Disputed Returns. It was Sir Thomas
himself who told me how he had for a
year during the severest part of the de-
pression always seen that a hard-up con-
stituent had a weekend joint. On elec-
tion-day he found the fellow handing-out
how-to-vote cards for his opponent, and
when he protested his opponent’s hireling
said, “Well, you didn’t offer me a job
today.” It is that sort of thing that ex-
plains the disillusioned eyes of honorable
members.
• •
Very few Spaniards have been included
among the several-hundred-thousand New
Australians who have entered this
country since the end of the war, but a
batch of 159, mostly Basques, will shortly
arrive in Queensland to work in the cane-
fields.
• •
One aspect of American trade-unionism
which could welUbe followed by Aus-
tralian unions is the wide and close in-
terest shown in international affairs. The
editorial by George Meany in the June
issue of the “American Federationist” is
on the 83rd Soviet veto in 'U.N.—the
veto of the U.S. plan for an inspection
zone in the critical Arctic regions. Meany
says this has exposed, more clearly and
fully than an exchange of diplomatic
letters, the fraudulent nature and the real
aims of the high-powered “peace offen-
sive” waged by the Kremlin, especially
in the last two years. Australian unions,
especially those still backing the Doc.
and his policy, should take notice.
,• ' •
Tasmanians have often complained
bitterly that they are “left off the map”
of Australia. They’ve had no reason to
growl in recent months.
• •
“Ex-ACT”: Cabinet has put aside,
during Budget discussions, the first major
recommendations of the National Capital
Development Commission, including the
commission’s comments on Sir William
Holford’s report. It is believed that the
commission has not yet completed its
investigations into the practicability of
the “lakes scheme,” but that it is opposed
to the Hoi ford idea of a Royal Pavilion
on Capital Hill.
• •
Preliminary forecast of wool-clip for
1958-59 issued by the National Council
of Woolselling Brokers is 4,240,500 bales,
with a total weight of 1428-million * lb.
This is 42-million lb. below 1957-58
figures.
• •
Reporting to the Economic and Social
Council in Geneva, the leader of the U.S.
delegation said there was strong reason
to believe that the decline in the U.S.
economy had been checked and would
soon be followed by a recovery. Indus-
trial production had turned upward in
the past two months and employment had
increased by 1,200,000.
Britain, too, had reported an improve-
ment in the employment picture—in the
five weeks to June 16 the unemployment
total dropped by 18,000. This is the first
decline in unemployment for nearly 12
months.
• •
“Becks”: Brisbane City Council is in
hot water with Queensland Chamber of
Manufactures because it is having its
“Centenary Book” printed in Sydney.
This recalls notices which were displayed
in the windows of Adelaide suburban
shops during the 1930 depression. Neatly
printed, they read: “If I don’t shop in
this suburb and you don’t shop in this
suburb and nobody shops in this suburb,
what will happen to the shopkeepers in
this suburb?” On one notice someone
had pencilled “The same as has happened
to the printer in this suburb.” It was only
after reading this addendum that 1 noticed
that the appeal carried, in tiny letters,
the imprint of a Sydney printery.


PERSONAL ITEMS
All levels of life-assurance men have
been queueing in Brisbane, Sydney, Can-
berra and Melbourne to hear Dr. Solo-
mon Stephen Huebner (called Heebner),
but few outside the insurance world have
heard much about him, because every-
body thought everybody else would
inform the dailies of this distinguished
American’s arrival.
Graduating in economics at the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania in 1904, he had
the brainwave that life-assurance was so
important that it needed an exclusive
faculty; so next year he began the
Faculty of Insurance at the University,
and in 49 years turned-out 75,000
graduates. Becoming a Doctor of
Philosophy in 1905 and a Doctor of
Science in 1931, he is also a Master of
Laws and now President Emeritus of
the American College of Life Under-
writers and dean of insurance-education.
The Australian lectures were arranged
by the Life Offices’ Association for Aus-
tralasia. Dr. Huebner has just left for
New Zealand, and before he came here
had lectured in Japan and the Philip-
pines. At 76 he is a shining example of
a life-assurance man who practises what
he preaches.
• •
Winners of the 1957 Sir John Sulman
medal and diploma for architecture,
D. J. W. Allen and R. C. Jack, both of
Sydney and in their early thirties, first
met 11 years ago at Sydney Tech., where
they graduated (Jack won the college
bronze medal' and the Byera Hadley
travelling-scholarship and went overseas
to look at architectural design in England
and on the Continent).
Teaming-up three years ago, they won
the award, given annually by the N.S.W.
Chapter of the R.A.1.A., for Jack’s home
in Wahroonga—built on a plot of land
which, with a creek running diagonally
across it, looked most unpromising. The
house spans the creek, and they have
devised a small waterfall outside the front
door.
On the day the award was announced
both were a bit harassed by TV and
pressmen. To get away from it, Jack
strolled round to 252 George Street and
spent some time admiring the solid Vic-
torian architecture of. The Bulletin
building—the opposite of their ultra-
modern design in oiled-timber and glass.
• •
This year’s award of the Ramsay
Memorial Fellowship goes to Gerald S.
Laurence, a young Westralian scientist
at Leeds University (Eng.). A Master of
Science (graduating with first-class honors
in chemistry in 1954), he received a
research-grant in chemistry from Leeds
in 1955. Specialising in radio-chemistry,
he is researching pn the effects of
neutron-radiation on chemical substances.
Since F. J. (Jim) Buckley became mine
host ,at the Newcastle Hotel, in Sydney’s
George Street North, artists mingle there
with stockbrokers, bankers and shipping-
men —the walls of the bars are an art-
gallery! Buckley (portrait herewith) has
been a long time in the hotel trade (he
was for 17 years house-manager at
Aaron’s), and he holds strong views on
the publican’s place in the community—-
MINE HOST
hence he aims to give the public the ser-
vice it needs, which itself is a bit out of
the ordinary in Sydney.
At the Newcastle’s annual art-exhibi-
tions all paintings offered, by triers as
-well as by professionals, are given a place,
without benefit of selection-commitee.
Last year, out of 80 pictures exhibited,
42 were sold. And now, this week, Jim
Buckley is starting another experiment.
From the thousands of books he has
collected, he is forming a library on all
subjects imaginable. He’s making no
charge for this, and, what’s more, he's
confident that he will get all his own
books back, and possibly end-up with
more of them than he started with!
• •
“Uramao”: Joining the 8.8. C. over-
seas service 16 years ago, Tahu Hole
was appointed to the job of news-editor
in 1948; he now steps into the post of
director of administration. Before link-
ing-up with broadcasting, he had wide
journalistic experience in his native New
Zealand and in Australia.
’ • •
Oldest living “old boy” of Hale
(Westralia’s first secondary school, which
has just celebrated its centenary), 97-year-
old George Rose, of Bunbury (W.A.),
was a boarder at the school in 1877
(though William Brown, son of Arch-
deacon Brown, a friend of the founder,
Bishop Hale, was at the school from 1870
to 1874, and can, therefore, claim a
longer association). Rose, who retains a
full topdressing of grey hair and wears
a neatly-trimmed silver' beard, was a great
hiker and swimmer in his young days.
He remembers fishing for gilgies in what
is now the site of Perth’s Central Rail-
way Station. ~
• •
“M.T.P.” runs an eye over some
eminent Fijians:
Aseri Kori Manulevu, born in 1919 a prema-
ture baby weighing a couple of pounds, is now
6ft. 6in. and weighs 19st. After graduation
he worked at various medical stations till
War 11, when he was seconded to the New
Hebrides and attached to the Americans. Back
in Fiji in 1947, he worked at the Wainibukasi
Hospital, then was sent to Vatukoula, where
more Fijians live than anywhere outside Suva,
and where he has been since, except for a
special study he did in 1955 of industrial health
at the Sydney School of Tropical Medicine.
Now studying with the University of New
Zealand for his B.A.
Member of the Legislative Council, Ratu
Kamisese Kapaiwai Tuimacilai Mara, M.A.
(Oxon), gathered the basis of his education
at Levuka Public School, with a subsequent
. course in medicine in New Zealand and study
of Constitutional history in England. Well
over 6ft., he was a briliant cricketer and
Rugger player and won his Oxford blue in the
high-jump. Is also a keen golfer.
Also of the Legislative Council. Ratu Etuarte
Tugi Tuivanuavou Cakobau, 0.8. E., M.C., is
a grandson of Ratu Cakobau, who ceded Fiji
to Britain in 1874. Queen Victoria School,
Nasinu, and Wanganui Technical College
(N.Z.) are among his education addresses. He
won his M.C. in the Solomon Islands fighting
in War 11, and commanded the Fiji First
Battalion in Malaya. He went to England
first in 1937 representing the Fiji Military
Forces' at the Coronation of King George VI,
and again with the Fiji Victory Contingent for
the Victory Parade in 1946. Now Deputy
Secretary for Fijian Affairs, he’s another in
the over-6ft. division, and was, too, a brilliant
cricketer and Rugby player.
• •
Giving away science for music, Donald
Thornton, of Perth, leaves for England
next month to work for a Bachelor of
Music degree. He’s a B.Sc. of the
Westralian University, with honors in
chemistry, but his success as a winner in
the A.B.C. vocal and concerto competi-
tions has lured him from the laboratory.
• •
How the Australian Flying Doctor ser-
vice works has become a 8.8. C. feature,
presented in the form of cases based pn
fact. The part of the Flying Doctor is
played by James McKechnie; that of his
pilot by Australian actor Bill Kerr, who
had already carved a place for himself
in Britain.
• •
1
In a note to The Bulletin, touching
especially on J. F. Archibald and the car-
toonists of his time, Sir Henry Manning
says that he himself, without knowing
the fine points, thought that the greatest
of them was either Hop or Phil May:
“But Archie told me the greatest of all
was Norman Lindsay.” Further: “In
1936 in London I had struck-up an
acquaintance with Stafford Cripps in a
length} Privy Council case. One day he


produced to me a torn-out page of The
Bulletin, by Norman Lindsay, showing
Menzies and me dealing with Section 92
of the Constitution. It was entitled ‘This
Freedom!’, and must have been done be-
fore May, 1936. Cripps then expressed
wonder that Australia seemed to have'
excelled in cartoonists. He included
Low, who was then operating with much
success in London. He thought the ex-
planation of their success was that in
their small community they had con-
stant contact with the most prominent
public figures, whereby they became
familiar with their most prominent
characteristics.”
o 0
“Uramao”: Mrs. J. B. Mackay (Ruth
Gilbert), of Wellington (N.Z.), judge of
the Jessie Mackay memorial prize for
1957, awarded it to Auckland poet Allen
Curnow for his Poems for 1949-57.
Awarded annually through the P.E.N.
Club and N.Z. Literary Fund, it is N.Z.’s
major poetry-prize. The judge com-
mended the “strong sense of form, com-
mand of the just image and sure tech-
nique.”
0 0
A schoolteacher earlier in his career,
Jack Charles Adam Pizzey is well
equipped to handle the portfolio of
Minister for Education in the Queensland
Government. He started as a student-
teacher at Bundaberg South State School
at the age of 15, and ended his teaching
career as district organiser of the Board
of Adult Education, resigning in 1949 to
take over as manager of the Canegrowers’
J.C.A. PIZZEY
Co-operative at Childers and secretary of
the Isis District Canegrowers’ Executive
and of the Isis District Pest Board.
Elected State member for Isis in 1950,
he became deputy-leader of the Country
party and Minister for Education in
August, 1957.
Two distinguished Australian naval
men have achieved distinction outside
their own spheres. Rear-Admiral H. B.
Farncomb, who retired in 1951 after 38
years’ service which culminated in his
commanding 'the Australian Fleet, has
been admitted to the Bar in Sydney, realis-
ing an ambition which he fostered during
his active-service. Surgeon-Rear-Admiral
Lionel Lockwood, Director-General of
Naval Medical Services, has been made
a Fellow of the Royal Australasian Col-
lege of Physicians. The Fellowship was
conferred for Lockwood’s services to
medicine. Several of his brothers have
been prominent in journalism. One,
Douglas, represents a Melbourne daily in
Darwin and is about to publish a book
of. his Territory experiences ; another runs
a tri-weekly newspaper at Natimuk, in the
Wimmera district of the Cabbage State.
0 0
“Maitri” farewells a former head-
master :
Phillip Ridgeway Le Couteur, for many years
headmaster or Newington College, Sydney, was
born at Kyneion (Vic.) and first studied phar-
macy and medicine, but later turned to the
classics, gaining his M.A. with first-class honors
at Melbourne University, where he was Hastie
Scholar ip Mental and Moral Philosophy.
He at Queen’s College, Mel-
bourne, for two yeais, and was a tripie-
blue in cricket, footballV and tennis, gajned
the Victorian Rhodes Scholarship in 1908, and
went to Oxford, where he achieved a further
M.A. with honoiable mention in Litterce
Humaniores and psychology, and also ‘ won
the John Locke Scholarship and was a cricket-
blue. Then on to Bonn University tin six
weeks he taught himself enough German to
follow the lectures), where he studied psychology
for two years. Always a fine sportsman, in
1910 Le Couteur played cricket for Oxford v.
Cambridge and represented Gentlemen against
Players. In another sort of accomplishment, he
represented Oxford in chamber-music contests.
He returned to Australia as first independent
lecturer in Mental and Moral Philosophy at
the University of Western Australia, and (as
noted in B. 9/7/’5B) subsequently held import-
ant headmasterships. In his time as head of
Newington (Sydney) the impressive Wyvern
House (one of Australia’s most successful
preparatory schools) was the result of his
vision, and so was the remarkable increase in
scholars—numbers had practically doubled
themselves by the time of his retirement. There,
too (apart from achievements Newington
remembers in scholarship and sport), Le
Couteur (himself a fine musician), with his
wife (daughter of a former master of Queen’s
College, she was a talented violinist, pianist
and organist), founded the Newington College
Choir, the Chapel Choir and the Wallace Webbr
Eisteddfod —three institutions which have
grown, into Newington traditions.
0 0
“Advocate”: Re the late Professor
Gordon Childe, whose The Prehistory of
European Society was reviewed in B.
21/5/’5B. Geoffrey Bibby paid him a high
tribute in Testimony of the - Spade.
Of his excavations in the Orkneys Bibby
wrote: “If any man in our time can be
'Said to have inherited the mantle of
Worsaae and Montelius that man is Pro-
fessor Gordon Childe, of London Uni-
versity, thoroughly at home in all Scandi-
navian and Slavonic languages and con-
versing freely with excavators - and
researchers from Sweden to Hungary.”
Son of the Rev. Stephen H. Childe, of St.
Thomas’, North Sydney, Professor
Childe was educated at Shore and was
Craven Scholar, Oxford.
JOHN CHAMPION, back in his
home town, Adelaide, as S.A.
manager of B.P. of Australia, Ltd.
Did a great deal, while in charge of
the Westralian office, towards getting
Kwinana selected as the site for his
company’s £40-million refinery.
“Warihi”: The death of Admiral Robert
Ghormley, U.S. Navy, recalls this taci-
turn officer coming to command in N.Z.
in the early days of War 11. His head-
quarters (and living-quarters) at first were
on one of the floating repair-and-supply
ships 'of the U.S.N. If the Japs had made
a raid on Auckland that ship would have
had difficulty in losing the wharf, for
she was moored by a series of welded
“fasteners,” apparently to stop any hooli-
gans letting her loose. Eventually the
Vice-Admiral, as he was then, took up
position in a spacious new block of
offices (just finished for the N.Z. Govern-
ment) in Auckland’s Shortland Street.
0 0
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 63, Frank Burge, Rugby
League star who played in nine Tests against
England. During the 1920-21 Kangaroos’ tour
of England he scored 33 tries, a record for
an Australian forward.
At Junee (N.S.W.), at 88, T. J. A. Fitz-
patrick, M.L.A. for Murrumbidgee, 1894-1904.
Only surviving member of the original Sydney
University Club, he had been a Director of
Amalgamated Textiles, and was a Bulletin
contributor.
At Geeveston (Tas.), at 90. W. A. Bennett,
pioneer orchardist and in his younger days
a noted footballer.
In Adelaide, at 79, Sir James Wallace
Sandford, member of the Commonwealth
Grants 1933-3 6; 18 years a South
Australian Legislative Councillor, and 23 years
Consul for Sweden. Head of the Adelaide
family company of Sandford and Co., Ltd.,
he had been a director of other companies
and had been president of many organisations.
At Christchurch (N.Z.), Mother Mary
Domitille (M. M. Hickey), closely associated
in literature with the late Professor Hight.
The first woman to be awarded a doctorate
of literature by the University of N.Z., she
was-an authority on education.


ABORIGINALITIES
ONE FOR APPER
By OLIVER FILTER
Apper was senior mechanic on a
Raaf radar-station way up in
the nor’-west during the war, and
an extremely good one. But his
technical brilliance was only one aspect
of Apper. He had a restless curiosity
about everything, from the habits of ants
to the ways of the stars.
Because he talked or read late, or be-
cause he was often called out during the
night, he was no early riser. He would
come out of his tent, splash his face with
cold water, run his fingers through his
hair and trudge through the heavy sand
to the wire-and-spinifex mess in the hope
that there might be a cup, or even half-
a-cup, of warm, or even half-warm tea
left in the urn. There generally was,
and he would sit alone in the mess,
sipping the tea and looking as though
he were reflecting on yesterday or specu-
lating on today. Possibly, of Course, he'
was simply waking-up.
Apper’s next regular morning call was
to the three-holer which was hygienically
situated about 300yds. across the spini-
fex from camp. Apper would call first
at his tent for a book—generally a
"Who's in charge here ?”
weighty tome on radio or higher mathe*
matics—and set off on his trek. We used
to bet on whether he would get there
without interruption. He rarely did.
Generally, within 100yds. or so, he would
bend over to inspect the ground, and
then, head down and bottom up, move
slowly off at a tangent through the spini-
fex, rather like a lazily browsing
kangaroo.
Ants, of course. They fascinated him.
Their industry, their strength, their appa-
rent foreknowledge of weather-condi-
tions, and, particularly, their means of
communication—Apper’s theory was that
they transmitted to each other with their
antennae on some ultra-ultra-high fre-
quency and, although he never conclu-
sively proved his theory, he certainly
made it sound plausible enough.
Of all the things that interested Apper,
it was such oddities of wild-life that took
up most of his attention. Anything that
crept or crawled or walked or flew would
catch his eye and his thoughts. The
lizards which basked on rocks too hot
to touch ... You couldn’t hit them
with a thrown stick or stone, because they
would see it coming and flash away so
fast at the last moment that you didn’t
see them move. Yet the diving eagle-
hawks could catch them.
That was “one for Apper.”
Co was the way in which the same eagle-
hawks floated around just in front
of the black smoke and dull red flames
of the spin if ex fires, waiting to drop on
the snakes and lizards and insect-life
which rustled' through the spinifex ahead
of the flames.
There was the time we shot a wild-
turkey to supplement our Christmas
menu of bully-beef and s M.-and-V.
When we gutted it there was a ball of
tennis-ball proportions in its crop and
consisting entirely of centipedes. That,
too, as someone said spontaneously at
the time, was one for Apper.
All such things. The death-adder you
found asleep in your clothes-box; the
centipedes which swarmed into the tents
after rain in such profusion that, after
the panics of the first few weeks, you
hardly bothered about them; the bandy-
bandy which slid quietly into the tent
one night when you were cleaning a Bren
and curled up beside you and went to
sleep; the way scorpions hared across
the tent-floor, nippers and tail held high
so that they looked like little golden
galleons racing before the wind.
One for Apper in every case.
HPhere was the time Siddy Lines and I
went out to the Coongan Gorge in
the hope of bagging a few wild-ducks,
also to supplement the Christmas menu.
We slogged along through the coarse,
heavy sand, the heat clanging down
from the sheer ironstone walls on either
side. The river broke through the sand
and flowed shallowly over it in places,
and here and there were quiet, tree-
shaded lagoons.
We had, of all things, a couple of
Tommy-guns. About halfway through
the gorge we came to a lagoon which
was almost black with ducks and shags.
It wasn't cricket, of course, but within
40yds. we stopped, set the, Tommy-guns
on full auto., and in less than two seconds
poured 36 rounds of .45 slugs into the
middle of the ducks.
There was a slather of foam and a
flurry of wings—and, when the echoes
had faded down the gorge, not a duck
in sight! Incredibly, we hadn’t hit one.
Then, as the last ripples died away and
we marvelled at our miss, an old-man
goanna poked his head up from the
middle of the pool and, turning slowly
round like a periscope, carefully surveyed
the lagoon and its banks. He must have
been lying on the bank when we fired,
and had taken to the bottom of the
lagoon as the safest place in a hurricane.
At any rate, satisfied it over, he
swam ashore and trundled away into the
shadow of the trees.
That was certainly one for Apper.
i haven’t seen him since the war, but
many a time over the years since then
I’ve murmured, “One for Apper.”
In George Street, Sydney, for instance.
A while ago, on almost any morning
before 7 a.m„ when the caretakers are
sunning themselves on the kerb or polish-
ing brass nameplates, you could see an
elderly woman feeding bijead-scraps and
greens to the horses in milk- and ice-
carts. There was a milk-cart with one
horse just outside Wynvard Station, and
about 200yds. down the street on the
opposite side an ice-cart with two horses.
The woman with tlje bread and greens
would come out of Wynyard and feed
the horse there first. The other two
down the street would spot her imme-
diately, and you should have seen them
perform—stamping the bitumen in tem-
per, tossing their heads and muttering to
each other that the greedy brute up the
- street would eat the lot if the old duck
let him. The moment she moved down
the street, however, they settled down,
and, as she fed them, it was nothing but




“Thank you, Ma’am,” and “ Very kind
of you, Ma’am.”
One for Apper, by all means.
Or the holiday-resort at the little place
called Currawong across Pittwater
from Palm Beach. It’s a green and
pleasant place with a clean sandy beach,
and there must have been a farm there
once —at least there is reasonable evidence
of it in the old bush-timber-and-iron
sheds and the few rusting tools and
implements lying around in the grass.
The other evidence is a horse and a sheep.
The neddy js glossy and fat from
ample pastures; the sheep is also well
fed, although its eyes are watery and its
bleat like a faint, rasping foghorn. They
graze together, these two old-timers, and
sometimes when they stray a little apart
and a dog comes barking the sheep
hurries back to the horse, which moves
protectively in front of it and sends the
pooch about its business.
I don’t know whether, in their odd
kinship of loneliness, the two of them
can talk to each other, or whether they
simply cling together for the last familiar
contact with other days. Maybe the sheep
thinks it’s a horse, and the horse thinks
it’s a sheep.
It’s one for Apper, anyway.
He’d have been interested, too, when,
digging in the garden, I threw a
lighted cigarette-butt on the ground and
it landed near a bulljoe-ant. Game as
Ned Kelly, Bulljoe charged and bit the
burning end of it. It hurt. He sprang
back a couple of inches, got his breath
and tackled it again. Same result —a
quick bite and retreat. He made a third
sally, and, I think, would have gone on
fighting the red-hot butt if I hadn’t
stamped on it and gently brushed him
away to look for some less painful way
to Valhalla.
Or, again, when one of the kooka-
burras was bathing in a pool at the back
of our place and, hearing the noise, one
of the cats went over to investigate. The
cat, all black silk and rippling muscle,
crept up on one side of a heap of stones
beside the pool and reached the top just
as Jack, his bath finished, decided to
land on the same place.
They met face to face and were equally
amazed. Jack took-off before the cat
had recovered its composure, but, water-
logged, couldn’t gain much altitude, so
that he, must have felt the fummy’s hot
breath ruffling his tail-feathers. He did
about 50ft. with the cat close below and,
with a last desperate effort, heaved him-
self to a low bough on a gum-sapling.
The instant he landed, he whipped around
and, from a safe height, looked the cat
in the eye and abused it vociferously and
at length until the fummy turned away,
preferring to pretend that it couldn’t
understand such filthy language.
The same fummy, by the way, belted
into the house the other day, circled twice
around another cat which was asleep 4>n
a chair, and then skidded outside again.
Not a word was exchanged, but the sleep-
ing cat jumped off the chair and padded
quickly outside. I followed, and found
them both on the side path sitting motion-
less and staring at a whopping frilled-
lizard. Suddenly the lizard bolted, with
both cats after it. Then it stopped and
spun round to face them, and they nearly
turned themselves inside-out putting on
their brakes.
They gave the game away in the end,
but I’d like Apper’s theory on how one
cat told the other about it.
As I said, all sorts of things . . . The
three young squid, almost trans-
parent, which waltz in perfect harmony
in the shallows where I fish; the bulldog
at Neutral Bay which likes an apple every
night before retiring; the goat at Sea-
forth which prefers oysters and tobacco
to the best lucerne-chaff; the mob of
ducks in the same vicinity which, at
tucker-time, walk solemnly over to their
feed-tin and bang it with their beaks
until their mistress can’t stand the racket
any longer and brings them their evening
meal; the cat which wades into a creek
up to its armpits and catches yabbies at
night; and another cat, a handsome
tortoiseshell, which, on the infrequent
and irregular occasions that my wife goes
to Sydney’s Mayfair Theatre, always con-
trives to find her in the dark, curls up
on her lap and goes to sleep for the dura-
tion of the show.
And there’s the pair of leatherheads
that nest in the apple-gum outside our
window and play-out the same little
drama every year. When their fledg-
lings are hatched, the kookaburras and
butcher-birds wait and watch with
horrible, patient appetite, what time one
leatherhead guards the nest and the other
goes abroad for food or, like a gallant
little Spitfire, circles, dives and attacks
the stolid kookaburras, even to the extent
of tweaking feathers from those larrikins
of the bush.
Sometimes the leatherheads lose and
the kookaburras gulp down the offspring
after pulverising them on a branch; more
often the game little blokes hold the fort
and see their young safely airborne . . «
Another couple of birds raise their
families not far from me. Tawny
frogmouths, they average two youngsters
a year, and as soon as they are old
enough to leave the nest you will, if
you keep your eyes peeled, see the whole
family perched on a dead log or in a
smother of appropriately colored
brambles. As soon as they are aware of
your coming, the four of them freeze,
eyes closed and beaks turned skyward,
so that they are almost indistinguishable
from bark or dead wood.
When I get fairly close to them I stand
motionless and wait. Soon the strain
becomes too much for the two youngsters
and they turn their indignant owl-like
stare on me. Without moving, either
Mum or Dad murmurs a reprimand—it
sounds like “Tuk!”—and the two
youngsters immediately freeze again in
best frogmouth fashion.
I still wait, and curiosity wins again:
the youngsters unfreeze and turn their
big brown eyes on me. “Tuk!” murmur
their parents, and once more the
young-’uns freeze. The game can go on
for as long as you like to stand there,
Mum and Dad never moving, and the
youngsters, like embryo ballet-dancers,
holding and breaking their pose every
couple of minutes.
Certainly one for Apper.
And yet another ... I was crossing
one of those little parks which lie be-
tween the three streets which take the
traffic to and from the city-approach to
the Sydney Harbor Bridge. There was
a dog there, a respectably collared subur-
ban pooch obviously lost in a large and
terrifying city. He stood near the foot-
path, raising one leg and then the other
and looking anxiously along the street,
as though expecting someone, or wonder-
ing which way to go.
I patted him, but he made no response
whatever; his body was tense and
trembling with ners'ousness. Then, from
the other side of the park, appeared two
utterly tough and disreputable city tykes.
They were unmistakably hardened city
types, and they were unmistakably out
for a bit of sport in the crisp morning
air. You could almost recognise grins
of anticipation on their faces as they
approached, stiff-legged and hackles up.
Tough boys, these; used to street-corners
and back-alleys.
What followed was very human and,


maybe, very Australian. There was a
little wary circling and sniffing before
the two city tykes sensed the lost one’s
fear and bewilderment. Then, 1 imagine,
they said something like, “What’s the
matter, sport?” and, he having told them,
added, “She’ll be right, mate. Just stick
with us.”
Their obvious problem was to cross
the road through the streaming city-
bound traffic and reach the comparative
quietness beside and under the bridge.
And the strange dog, of course, was
terrified of the rushing, roaring traffic.
They waited for a momentary break
in the flow of cars, then one of the city
tykes—-you could almost hear him say,
“Watch me, sport!”—darted and twisted
across the road, narrowly escaping from
the ducoed monsters that bore down on
him. He reached the other side and
waited on the kerb, looking across at
the other two.
These two —the stranger and the other
city dog—waited for fully a minute
watching the traffic. Then, 1 think, the
city bloke said, “C’mon, mate; quick!”
and escorted the other dog in a swift
twisting course through the cars.
On the other side the three of them
frisked and sniffed their way down beside
the bridge and out of sight, bent on
delights that humans never know.
One for Apper? Definitely !
• * * *
Tt was in the throes of a dead nor’-west
monsoonal calm. Several hundred yards
abeam we could see what appeared to be
thousands, of gleaming trevally rising and
falling in swift parabolas. We altered
course to investigate. As we approached
we saw that the glaSs-smooth water of that
reach of Torres Straits was of a definitely
pinkish tinge. As we reached the patch,
which seemed about a mile square in area,
we saw the prey on which the trevally were
reaping high harvest. The waters were
teeming with tiny pink crabs, soft-shelled
and about the size of a florin. In some
years in the Straits I never saw a similar
phenomenon, nor came across any
old Straits hand who claimed to have
done so. I mention in passing that ours
was a dry ship, as we had a missionary
lady aboard —“Argan.”
* * * *
“Maitri”: Just a few feet from the
house of a chap who lives at Palm Beach,
near Sydney, flourish some magnificent
gums inhabited by a number of koalas.
A month or so back, one of the bears
developed a distressing cough and barked
so continuously that the household got
precious little sleep. First the chap tried
to persuade a vet. to catch and treat
the bear, but he wasn't having any ;
then he rang the Zoo, and next day an
attendant arrived, scaled the tree, caught
the sick bear and carried it off. A
fortnight later he was back again with
the animal, which, when released, made
its way up the tree. The poor little beggar
had had pneumonia, and the Zoo people
had cured it and brought it back to its
native haunts.
* * * *
“Nettle”: Husband and I were idly
discussing swaggies. “What’s a swaggie,
Mum?” asked our daughter. Startled by
such ignorance of something that was an
everyday part of my childhood, it took
some time for us to realise that our
children had never seen one on our
southern Victorian roads.
* * * *
“Tabba”: The New Australian cane-
cutter was telling me about his squabbles
with his wfife. “But I make her keep
quiet,” he said. “1 hit her.” “But,
Giorgio,” I reproached him, “you
wouldn’t hit a woman?” “Too right I
hit da woman. ’ “I don’t know how you’ve
got the nerve.” “Got da nerve all right.
Me one time amateur boxer ; not scared
of da woman.”
*.* * •
“Swelpme”: A fox-whistle is a pretty
efficient decoy in the lips of an expert,
but Eve seen full-grown foxes lured to
their doom with a piece of black cloth,
a white handkerchief and a really
talented piece of bird-mimicry. The
mimic, a youngster of 69, took-up his
position behind a bush, methodically
placed his rifle at hand, and tied the
two pieces of material to the end of a
short stick. He then whistled a magpie’s
throat-call several times before abruptly
changing it to the harsh squawk a maggie
emits when in trouble. At the same
time he thrust the end of the stick out
to the fringe of the bush and jerked
it up and down with a short, tumbling
motion. “From a distance it looks like
a maggie caught in a rabbit-trap,” the old
chap explained. At least two bushytails
fell for that bit of crude subterfuge.
MIRAGE
Where the phantom water lies,
Coolibahs in summer skies
Twice reflected dance and lift;
Wavering, the sandhills shift
Strangely on the mobile plain,
Rippling swiftly back again.
Over them Quixote rides
Pegasus with sweeping strides —-
Stockmen riding home in air
Tilt at windmills never there.
n.s.w. Anne Bell.
* * • *
As against the English barmaid who hit
the headlines by hatching-out a chick
from a hen’s egg she carried wrapped in
cottonwool against her bosom for 21 days,
1 offer the case of that fine old gentle-
man Walter Goodfellow, who with
Shaw-Mayer used to come to us in
Dutch New Guinea every few years bird-
collecting for the London Zoo. When he
came upon a nice warm clutch of large
green eggs of the cassowary, he called
for extra blankets and, snuggled-up in
bed and fed by his native servants,
stayed put for four days until the chicks
emerged. He hatched two out, and, more-
over, got them back to London. —
“Sanasi.”
* * * *
“Wommadoo”: Old Judd leaned
against a wall near the street-corner,
squinting long-sightedly at a newspaper
held at full arms’-length. ‘‘Any news
in the paper, Judd?” asked a crony.
“Don’t know,” said the old hand thought-
fully ; “me arms ain't long enough.”
• * * v
“Justin Thyme”: Must have been
before “Hazel’s” time (B. 18/6/*5B), but
Queenslander Essex Evans somewhere in
the ’nineties wrote of a Chinee cook who
“had one redeeming virtue and its name
w'as rabbit-pie.” But when, with the
advent of some v.i.p.s, he was asked by
the station-missus to put his masterpiece
on the menu, he could only say, “Last-a
week-a plenty puppy, this-a week ail
puppy done.” And the late Harry
Horne’s shearer complains, “Strike me
blue, there’s a piece of curried snake-
skin floating in my rabbit-stew.” Any-
how, give me the rabbit-pie before the
outback-pub maid’s offer of “Goat or
galah—and the goat’s that old stinkin’
billy that died last week.” I remember
sampling a dish known as “star-gazer,”
a deseeded pumpkin stuffed with possum,
the deceased animal’s tail pointing
heavenward from the hole made in scoop-
ing out the seed. So it’s “Hazel,”
not to ask awkward questions about a
cook’s efforts.


Business,Rollery. ETC.
THE NEW SHAPE OF THINGS
/''Vver the past year world
trade has received the most
severe setback it has experi-
enced since before World War
II began.
The effect is likely to be more
pronounced than in 1951-52,
particularly in countries like
Australia, New Zealand and
South Africa, which still depend
very largely upon primary pro-
duction.
Though the 1951-52 setback
was played-up irresponsibly
by political parties and the
press in Australia, it was by no
means as definite in shape or
proportion as the present
economic situation.
The Korean war came along
just in time, anyway, to renew
inflation and replace the 1951-
52 recession problem by a.
different type of problem.
On the present occasion
costs are very much higher in
Australia, than they were in
1951-52. And the price of wool
is now considerably lower.
That may be taken as a
general pointer in this country
to the position so far as most
land-production and minerals
are concerned.
The easy money of the past
15 or 20 years has given way
to highly competitive trading.
But it is obvious that if
competition is increasing in the
world’s markets and among
Australian producers, so must
production and productivity be
increasing.
The problem for Australia is
to see that its. productivity
should keep pace with the rest
of the world, especially those
countries with whom it trades.
When the 1951-52 recession
came there were still shortages
and bottlenecks in Australian
industry. Today bottlenecks
are uncommon. There is no
scarcity of coal, electric power,
steel, copper or chemicals.
One of the few physical
problems of our economy is
that of transport. It is still,
overall, very inefficient, and
threatens to become worse.
But, in short, the position
in Australia today is that
financially conditions are the
most difficult they have been
for the past 15 years; tech-
nically (or physically) condi-
tions have never been better.
In other words, it should be
now far easier to produce our
goods for sale (seasons, in the
case of land industries, per-
mitting), but our problem will
be in finding a market for them
at a competitive price.
And price undoubtedly con-
tinues to be a major snag in the
Australian economy. Goods
involving a high degree of
“You might say that all We do in this department is keep
an electronic computer out of a job.”
manufacture are dearer in Aus-
tralia than in other countries
because their production in-
volves too many man-hours in
too short a working-week.
Highly industrialised
countries, or countries in
which a lower standard of
employee-conditions prevails,
can beat our rate of man-hour
output in most secondary in-
dustries.
One of the exceptions, among
secondary industries, is the
production of ingot-steel. The
B.H.P. group still turns it out
as cheaply as any other steel-
maker in the world.
Among our land industries,
no country can produce wool
as efficiently as Australia can.
Wheat, too, is produced very
economically in Australia, and
we could probably meet mosf
countries in the open market
on a basis of cost of produc-
tion.
But subsidised dumping of
wheat is being carried out by
several countries, and if Aus-
tralia had possessed a normal
export surplus this year it
would have had difficulty in
disposing of it in the normal
way. As it is, it has to have a
guaranteed price.
Overseas trading is always
difficult in times of keen inter-
national competition. One
country cannot make the rules
by which international trade
shall be carried out, and when
the dumping of surplus pro-
duction starts, as has been
happening with butter, it may
have disastrous effects on the
economy of some other country
which does not subsidise the
below-cost export of its pro-
ducts.
Internally, Australia has a
rapidly increasing population
and a buoyant demand for most
of its production. But more
emphasis will have to be put on
selling now that manufacturing
productivity is reaching new
high levels. Prices will become
a critical factor, too. And it
is quite possible that the nature
of demand will change as new
products are developed and
tested. There is nothing like
keener competition to force
manufacturers into taking new
ideas off the drawing-board and
putting them into the factory.
Surpluses and Savings
C|ince 1950-51, the year pre-
ceding the Federal Govern-
ment’s credit-restriction policy
aimed at controlling post-war
inflation and excessive imports,
Budget surpluses and works
paid for out of revenue have
been as follows:
Capital
Outlay
Budget . From
Surplus Revenue
(£mil.) (£mil.)
1950- .. 7.0 ? 1.8
1951- .. .. 98.5 110.6
1952- .. .. 13.4 103.6
1953- .. .. 56.3 94.1
1954- .. .. 70.1 95.7
1955- .. .. 61.6 101.9
1956- .. .. 1(1.6 107.8
1957- .. .. 119.3 122.4
537.8 767.9
* Budget estimate.
Taking the 1957-58 Budget
estimates at their face-value, it
will be seen that over the past
eight years the Federal Govern-
ment has had Budget surpluses
totalling £537.8 million, and
has paid for its own public
works, including the Snowy
Mountains Scheme, to die
extent of £757.9 million out of
revenue.
Altogether, Budget surpluses
and works paid for out of
revenue total £1305.7 million
since 1950-51.
Recently Budget surpluses
have been used to help pay
for State public works. Some
of the surpluses have gone to
reserve, including the National
Debt Sinking Fund.
In any case, during the eight-
year period over £l3OO million
has been drawn-in in taxation
in excess of normal revenue-
expenditure, and it has been
either held in reserve or used
to meet outlay that is normally
financed out of borrowed
money.
By now a good deal of the
works paid for out of revenue
should be coming to the point
where they will be reproductive.
The Wheat Guarantee
Subject to ratification by
Federal and State Govern-
ments and by wheatgrowers
themselves (some of whom are
already asking for another 6d.
a bushel), the Commonwealth
will guarantee 14s. 6d. a bushel
for export wheat up to 100-
million bushels out of the
1958- crop, as well as a home-
consumption price of 14s. Bd.
The main provisions of the
agreement, which will be for
five years, are the same as those
for the preceding five-year
agreement.
The present home-consump-
tion price is 14s. 4d. a bushel,
including a 2d. loading to meet
freight on wheat shipped to
Tasmania, but in N.S.W. an
additionaf 2s. a bushel has been
charged to defray the cost of


THE “WILD CAT’*
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
jis
i
fl
IN,
5
Will
Your Business
“die” with you?
What assurance have you that the business you have
built throughout a lifetime will continue to function
without dislocation and to the advantage of your
beneficiaries after your death?
Your appointment of Union Trustee as Executor,
Trustee, Manager or Attorney would ensure sound
administration of your affairs—impartially and
permanently—at moderate cost —and safeguard the
future of your Estate.
Write or ’phone for an appointment to discuss our
service, and obtain a copy of the explanatory
booklet, “Important Facts Concerning Wills,
Executors, Trustees.”
THi
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITEC
{incorporated la Victoria) IrliblUkcd XB&S
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Norman J. Carson,
C.M.G ; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton. General Manager:
John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams, Resident Officer
tor Northern Victoria ami Riverina: S. L. G. MacDonald,
Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P.. Learmonth.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G.. M.L.C. (Chairman) J
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddeli. K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.;
Bertram J. E. Wright, M.8.E.; R. A. Irish; Duncan N.
Mathieson. Manager: A. B. Tilemann. Assistant Manager:
A. G. W. Dent. Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
District Representative for Newcastle: H. B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Chairman))
Bvrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon)
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Job St.
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley.
And at XownsviUe, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
CbarlevLUe.
TJT2S
bringing wheat in from other
States because of the 1957-58
harvest failure.
Wheat grown in N.S.W.
should thus be Is. Sd. a bushel
cheaper when the new season's
wheat starts to come in about
October this year.
Elder’s New Building
T)rime minister menzies
opened Elder House, the
fine new 11-story Sydney head-
quarters of Elder, Smith and
Co., Ltd., on Friday. The new
building will give a welcome
addition to office-space in busy
and graceful O'Connell Street.
Elder House is the first of three
new buildings in O’Connell
Street to be completed.
Treasury-bill Finance
Come Treasury-bill finance
may be introduced to help
repay that part of the £350-
million of Commonwealth-
loan maturities which is not
converted into new securities
during the current financial
year, the National Bank of
Australasia says in its monthly
summary. A major share of
the war-loans involved is be-
lieved to be held by small
investors, and redemptions are
expected to be high.
In present slacker economic
conditions, the National Bank
believes that some increase in
Treasury-bill finance would be
justified, and that “material
tax-concessions” in the Budget
on August 5 “would give the
private sector of the economy
just the stimulus it needs at
present and w'ould keep a brake
on Government expenditure.”
It also speaks of a “double-
pronged boost” arising from
redemptions through Treasury-
bill issues and from tax-con-
cessions, with little risk of
running into inflationary con-
ditions as a result.
SMALL MINES AND CANBERRA
(From J. and W. REDDIE, Shrimp Battery, N.Q.)
TiyrANY measures, such as
IVI “T ax Freedom for New
Mines” (B. 29/9/’56), have
been advocated to stimulate
Australian mining. From our
experiences here in north
Queensland, much improve-
ment would be effected if even
existing provisions in the Taxa-
tion Acts were clearly framed
to accord with expressed inten-
tions, or, if already so ex-
pressed, interpreted in that
spirit and with some realisation
of mining conditions and
problems.
Sales-tax —on a utility—was
ventilated (B. 6/11 /’57), and an
explanation from the commis-
sioner reads that “the transport
of men, equipment or supplies
for mining” is not regarded as
meeting the term “for use in
the mining industry in carrying-
out mining operations,” but
that “cartage of ore is accepted
as treatment of ore for the pur-
pose of the item.”
Hair-splitting? The Metal-
lifer-mining Award, N. of 22
S. (Q.) requires the provision
of such a vehicle, and
apparently the department has
not caught-up yet with the
interpretation given “mine
development” in the High
Court judgment in the Mt. Isa
Mines, Ltd., appeal.
Mining Primary Production?
Judging by our tax-assess-
ments, mining is not “primary
production,” so the 20 p.c.
depreciation-allowance does not
apply, nor does the five-years’
averaging of income as is done
with farmers, graziers, etc.
Incidentally, averaging of
income which does not take
into account any losses in the
period appears queer. '
Sec. 23A of the Act provides
n 20 p.c. reduction in tax due
on the production of certain
metals and their ores. This
applies irrespective of the use
to which the profits are put,
whether for a trip, motor-car,
etc.
Later, to encourage the
return of such profits—often
rare into mining and its
expansion, Sec. 123 was intro-
duced and provided that, from
the assessable income of a year,
an amount could be appro-
priated for the purchase of
plant, developmental work, etc ,
in the following year, such
amount to be free of tax in the
year appropriated but to count
as income in the succeeding
year.
Our registered tax-agents in
the 1949-50 return deducted
20 p.c. of the profit and then
appropriated £2500 under Sec.
123. The department allowed
the appropriation, but applied it
first and then Sec. 23A, thus
increasing the taxable income
by £5OO. Our tax-agents did not
dispute the ruling, and the
assessments were paid. Last
year another firm of leading
tax-agents in Townsville
declared that Sec. 23A applied
first. Who know's what Parlia-
ment really intended?
For many tax-years prior to
June 30, 1949, our total partner-
ship working-profit without
any allowance for the two
partners’ work averaged less
per annum than the increases
considered necessary to


This Investment
Offers
Complete Security
GOVERNMENT - GUARANTEED
SYDNEY
- -
&•{ \ :
r > i, ■
WATER BOARD
5Vk% LOAN
CURRENCY:
5, 10 or 20 YEARS
Principal and Interest are Guaranteed by the
N.S.W. Government. The Loan is also a
Charge on the Board's Income of £13,900,000.
Assets Exceed £130,000,000. An Authorised
Trustee Investment.
Apply at any office of the Commonwealth Trading Bank.
Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited, Bank of New
South Wales, The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
Limited; through members of Stock Exchanges; or the
Sydney Water Board.
SYDNEY WATER BOARD
LOAN
Underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
MW.73.5h
members of Parliaments and the
higher-ranking officers of the
public services; and, thougli
we may have become experts
in budgeting, we got by with-
out any sense of hardship—
taking it as part of the game.
Being some 700 miles north
of the “Brisbane Line,” maybe
our views were conditioned by
the war years, when others were
doing and risking a lot more
for a lot less under worse
conditions. Later, of course,
we read Behind Bamboo,
While Time Passes, “Sandakan
March” (B. 8/1/’47), etc., and
received “The Call to the
Nation” and “Task for a
Nation.”
Those increases appear rather
a pity.
To get some idea of taxation,
a copy of Income Tax for
Fanners and Graziers was pro-
cured, and we noted the
Treasurer’s foreword: “....
the producer by increased
production not only improving
his own immediate interests,
but improving the economic
stability of our great heritage,
Australia.”
Motives Like Scrub Cattle
VVhacko! But motives are
like scrub cattle when it comes
to mustering, drafting and
branding. Maybe we rather
like mining, and the rest should
follow, provided we muster the
energy.
With the temperature around
100 degrees in the shade, we
found climbing the Sardine
Hill had much the same effect
as rolling-down the lower
portion in our ute. It is, at
times, even too hot for writing ;
but writing, however, reduces
the internal temperature.
Further, we read the depart-
ment “calls the attention of a
taxpayer to an error against
himself and advises him of
any provisions overlooked.”
Certainly the “experienced
assessor” of the. department
whom w'e interviewed in
Townsville seemed of that ilk,
but the department itself —well,
it seems a matter of luck in
assessors.
Misreading a note in our
1951-52 return and ignoring
our 1952-53 return then in its
hands several months, the
department cut our 1951-52
appropriation from £5OOO under
Sec. 123 to £l6OO, even though
the £5OOO was shown as income
in the 1952-53 return, and
thus showed a loss of £2468 for
the latter year. Some budget-
ing!
Our mining expenditure for
that year totalled £3761 without
any allowance for our own
work, and we were negotiating
the purchase of an air-
compressor. As we are credited
officially with the discovery ol :
the presence of stannite
(copper-tin sulphide) in the
Sardine ores and the locating
of an important new orebody
there, our own work, on
present-day standards, could
have used-up the appropriation
before it got into action in the
mine.
Taxation Hampers Mining
In the five-year period July 1,
1949 to June 30, 1954, our
mining expenditure °— agaip
without any allowance for our
own work totalled over
£14,000, yet the department :s
questioning two appropriations
totalling only £5250. In the
period in question—up to June
30, 1953 our mining
was of developmental nature,
fortunately for us in very rich
ore at a time of high metal
prices, though tin-metal did
drop suddenly in April, 1953,
to £685 sterling per ton, as
against £9OO sterling and over.
In the period, attention was
given to other shoots of ore,
prospecting, as well as changing
from hand-drilling to jack-
hammers and from charcoal-gas
engines to diesel. Even though
smoke billowing from a
charcoal-pit away to a good
start has some attraction,
charcoal-burning isn’t much of
a game, especially in summer.
It is difficult to believe our
experiences are normal, yet
we have heard of similar
instances of taxation troubles
hampering those interested in
mining. As far* back as B.
20/10/’4B, one northern
mining-party advised the
warden at Herberton (N.Q.)
that “they were unable to
produce further [that year]
owing to the crippling effects of
taxation.”
We have rather much leeway
to' make up, and, anyway,
Father Time is in alliance with
the Taxation Department.
However, we are one up on
Jeremiah, as we can still gel a
chuckle (of a sort) out of the
idea that we are, in a smail
way, shall we say “privileged”
to help to keep intact the seats
of the trousers of members of
Parliament (B. 5/9/’56),
maintain “The Sky the Limit”
paradise, help build the
£2,500,000 Taxation Office in
Brisbane, as well as send
14 double-decker buses to
Indonesia (to have their plaques
removed) and tractors to India
to lie unused in the fields,
according to Mr. E. J. Gaven,
M.L.A. (QX
Yes, we are fortunate in
more ways than one!


Christopher “Brennan
By A. R. CHISHOLM
I first saw Brennan in 1908, when
I was an undergraduate. in Sydney.
But I did not suspect then that he
was to be one of my greatest mile-
stones; and 1 made his acquaintance only
late in 1914, after returning from my first
visit to Europe
That may seem-strange> seeing that he
had lectured to us in 1909 and 1910. But
members of staff were considered to be
inaccessible in my time at the University.
Moreover—and this may seem stranger
still —the work that Brennan did with us
in class, consisting of translation from
such dreary writers as Boileau, did not
in any way lead me to suppose that I was
listening to a man of genius.
In fact, I put him down as one more
rather indifferent lecturer, uninterested
and therefore uninteresting. His German
lectures were no doubt much better ; but
at that time I knew no German. I had
heard, it is true; that he was a poet. But
so too was his friend J. Le Gay Brereton,
the University Librarian [subsequently
Professor of English]; and Brereton’s
verse left me cold. Therefore, with the
summary ruthlessness of youth, I con-
cluded that Brenpan was just another
scholar writing verse, and dismissed him,
though his voice and appearance fasci-
nated me.
r T' HERE is a further peculiarity about this
portrait. I have written so much on
Brennan that at first there appeared to be
little left for me to say about him. For
that reason I am here setting but to show
how he gradually grew on me, and then
bewitched me; how the image that I
retain of him was little by little ; <
what the man looked like in the flesh ;
and how something behind the flesh shone
forth with a light steadily increasing in
intensity, until at last it became an aura.
An aura, but certainly not a halo ; nor
was its brilliance always exhilarating, in
the true Latin sense of the word. For
there was, behind Brennan’s joviality,
from Professor A. R. Chisholm’s book.
“Men Were My Milestones,” to be
published next month by the Melbourne
University Press.
which was almost boisterous at times, and
behind his loquacity, a sadness that
showed through only now and again, but
was always there. It was not like the
skeleton at an Egyptian banquet, which
was deliberately displayed. It lurked
darkly the corners of that yast mind,
and became visible only when I came to
know it was there and looked for it as a
man looks for the symptoms of a lesion in
Christopher Brennan in his younger days—a Lambert drawing on view earlier
this year at Tyrrell's Bookshop, Sydney.
his system once he knows that the shadow
is upon him. .
And yet that comparison is misleading.
There is a variety of sadness that is not a
disease. It is, in fact, the most vital and
productive element'in some men’s make-
up. Psychologists have no doubt proved
to their own satisfaction that poets like
Baudelaire and Verlaine had a complex,
and that if this had been treated in time
they could have become quite normal
creatures. But if such were the case,
Heaven forbid that they should be cured!
Such men may have suffered atrociously
from what was gnawing at them ; but the
world is the richer for it—or at any rate
that part of the world that cares for
beauty and knows that there is such a
thing as the nostalgia of genius. Is it a
demon? A god rather ; an Everlasting
Yea that only seems to be an Everlasting
Nay. But its aspirations lead away from
the banalities of life and from material
success, and are therefore deemed to be
morbid, or foolish, or perverse, if not
positively wicked and reprehensible. That
is why, I dare say, some people shudder
at the very title of Baudelaire’s poetic
works, Les Fleurs du Mai. They forget
that flowers, gleaming sweetly in the light,
‘grow on plants whose roots are in sub-
terranean darkness.
Youth is summary and ruthless in its
judgments; and, apart from the
impressiveness of his profile and the
strange resonances in his voice, one of
the first things I noticed about Brennan
was that his nails were closely bitten —
a detail that repelled me, but which was
forgotten when at last I began to see into
his mind. ~ .
Late in 1914 1 was asked to correct half
of the French Intermediate papers—the
Intermediate had by that time taken the
place of the old Junior Public, and was
held towards the end of the year.
1 took my papers away with me to the
Illawarra district; and therb I received
a telegram from Brennan, who was my
co-examiner: “Heaven’s sake take half
my papers and save remnants of my
reason.” I agreed, and he sent me an
enormous bundle of scripts.
It was when I came back, and we met
at his house in Mosman to compile the
results, that I had my first really close
view of him (he was then within a few
weeks of being forty-four years old).
There is no need here to go over all the
circumstances; but, as this is a portrait,
let me here say exactly what I saw that
day, and can still see so distinctly.
TTis face was bulky, like his body; with
the morbidezza that an Irishman’s
whiteness sometimes has (botlThis parents
were from Ireland). But this whiteness
was permanently flushed a little, and a
little weatherbeaten ; flushed partly from
drink perhaps, but partly also from sheer
vitality.
For Brennan was in those days extra-
ordinarily robust, and had one of the
strongest; stomachs imaginable. He could
(Continued on page 34)


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
and the brasses are used much
more lavishly than usual —
rather too much and too loudly
at times. But the music has
vigor and-imagination.
The programme wound-up
"with a rousing reading of
Richard Strauss’s “Till Eulen-
spiegel.” In this tone-poem we
are spared the solemn sort of
German hero who infests most
of the other six: This hero at
least is a rascal, and if Strauss’s
humor is too heavy-handed on
Barenboim and Woess
With all the confidence and
poise of a veteran virtuoso,
15-year-old Israeli pianist
Daniel Barenboim displayed
extraordinary gifts when he
appeared with the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra under
Kurt Woess in a performance
of Beethoven’s Third Concerto.
His entry after the long
orchestral introduction was
quite electrifying. He launched
into the exposition and develop-
ment of the material with
power and precision ; he built-
up massive tone in the bass
without any blurring of clarity;
and his fast scale-passage work,
his trilling in the high reaches,
and his delicate filigree orna-
mentation were all impeccably
managed. His playing of the
first cadenza was especially im-
pressive. >
In the largo —one of the
loveliest slow movements Beet-
hoven ever wrote —the pianist
achieved, without any apparent
striving, a quality of serene
meditation that even a Schnabel
would not have rejected. The
rondo was the liveliest of ex-
cursions into the realms of pure
rhythm, in which pianist and
orchestra —which was in top
form—at first jousted, and then,
coming to amiable agreement,
galloped along to the joyous
finish.
Woess presented two con-
temporary works for the
orchestra. In “Vivaldiana”
Italian Gian Malipiero has
captured with some fidelity the
style and gracefulness of
Vivaldi, the earliest master of
the violin-concerto. While he
uses a guarded modern idiom,
the work generally is cast in
the mould of the 18th century,
and the overall effect is charm-
ing. The writing for the wood-
winds is particularly bright.
The “Sinfonietta,” by the
Czech Leos Janacek, is indi-
vidualistic music owing less to
folk-music —which one might
have expected of the natural
successor to Smetana and
Dvorak than to vital
elementary rhythms and
original harmonic treatment.
There is ingenious scoring for
different sets of instruments,
“Must We try and keep up with the Pharaohs ?”
occasions, there is the rich com-
pensation of some in-between
melodies. The orchestra lashed
into it with admirable zeal.
A.B.C. Competition
The standard was again
encouragingly high in the
Commonwealth finals of the
A.B.C. Vocal and Concerto
Competition, which were
judged in Sydney by Professor
George Loughlin, of Mel-
bourne.
Geoffrey Michaels, a 14-
year-old violinist from W.A.,
drew away from a strong field
of three pianists to gain a
meritorious win in the instru-
mental section. He has a well-
developed technique and an
unusually high musical intelli-
gence, which he showed in his
clean shaping of the opening
movement of the Tchaikowsky
Concerto. His bowing is crisp
and fluent, and his tone over
the four strings is excellent.
Michael Griggs (S.A.) earned
a commendation for a well-
judged performance of the
2nd and 3rd movements of
Brahms’s First Piano Con-
certo. Some shallowness in the
adagio probably cost him top
place, but his final rondo car-
ried a respectable punch.
Beryl Potter played the first
sections of the “Emperor”
Concerto, with which she had
won the N.S.W. State final,
and Roger Holmes (Vic.)
weaved his way dynamically
enough through the variations
of the Rachmaninoff Rhapsody
oh Paganini’s famous theme.
In the vocal section Lynette
Howieson made it a double
for Westralia. with a stylish
rendering of Violetta’s big
three-part aria from “La
Traviata.” A lyric soprano
with a voice sufficiently flexible
to cover the coloratura work,
she achieved fine dramatic
urgency in the preliminary
recitative, “E Strano.” Simi-
larly, in the “Sempre Libere”
section, she contrived the
essential spirit of forced gaiety,
and the coloratura singing of
the final “Ah! Fors e lui” was
strong, accurate and well
projected in good “forward”
singing.
Rosalind Keene (N.S.W.)
was commended for her sing-
ing of the “Shadow Song”
from Meyerbeer’s “Dinorah.”
It was effortless and accurate
coloratura, but rather too cool
and detached.
Janice Hearne (Q.) raised a
mezzo-soprano of nice quality
in “Weep, Mine Eyes,” from
Massenet’s “Le Cid,” but her
interpretation gave insufficient
emphasis to the grief which
is its mainspring. Robert
Bickerstaff, the Victorian bari-
tone, who has resonance and
power - but needs clearer
enunciation, could have chosen
“Lohengrin”
Last opera in the Elizabethan
Trust’s season in Brisbane was
“'Lohengrin,” a good produc-
tion as exciting as anything in
the Italian repertoire.
Stefan Haag’s staging was
admirable —he is never lacking
in imagination and if stage-
hands are sometimes unable
to carry out his ideas his
moments of failure are in a
good cause. The first arrival of
the Swan was the most exciting
presentation of this difficult,
disbelieved event.
Costumes were suitably
medieval in spirit, spoiled by
a modern gloss-enamel shade
on the duralium shields of the
many knights. These are minor
points which may not go
beyond the Trust’s testing-
ground north of twenty-eight.
The “Bayreuth” method of
using lighting rather than sets,
even on stages much smaller
than the original, certainly
clears away a lot of the fuss,
tatters and clutterings of
standard performances.
Musically, it remained on a
high level of excitement. The
orchestra for this season has
been on model behavior,
almost obliterating memories of
last year’s “Tosca.” Ronald
Dowd, in the title-role, must
now be considered one of the
finest tenors singing in English
today. In the last act he was
so at ease in his great arias
that they took on the quality
of speech. How right, for a
passage generally known as the
“narration! ”
As Ortrud, Constance Shack-
lock hurled a fury of voice,
over the heads of the orchestra
and lashing like a dark tide up
to the very chandeliers. Her
acting was at times a little
reminiscent of Theda Bara, but
then, of course, so is Ortrud.
Neil' Easton, on top form foV
the whole season, made Telra-
mund just the type of husband
such a menace would have.
Making her debut as Elsa,
Elizabeth West was, un-
fortunately, a disappointment.
There was nothing wrong with
her approach to the part. Elsa
is a role not greatly endowed
with obvious melodies in the
conventional sense, but she is
given many opportunities to
float a clear soprano line, above
the darkness of Ortrud. This
Miss West never managed, and
one missed the Betty Fretweil
of a few years ago, and now
the delight of Covent Garden.
Diction, so lamentable in
“Grimes,” was well-nigh perfect
here, in all its translated
banality.
VAL VALLIS .


Divorce Notice
IN' THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WARES —T\- Divorce.
TO JAMES CHARLES MIDDLETON late
of H Vera Street Corowa, N.S.W. —
TAKE NOTICE that MARIE VAEDA
MIDDLETON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2084 of 10.18 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three .years and upwards
and is asking for the exercise of the
Court’s discretion under S. 19 (2) (a)
of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in (lie Divorce Registry
Mint Building Macquarie Street Sydney
by the 22nd of September 1958 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from BRADLEY MAUGIIAN &
CUTLER, Solicitors, of 27 Hunter
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGIIAN,
Registrar.
NO SINGLE RUM CAN MATCH IT!
RED JACK RUM
O
RED JACK
BLENDED FROM QUEENSLAND’S
CHOICEST 7-YEAR-OLD
POT-STILL RUMS. NO “SINGLE”
RUM CAN MATCH IT
Specially blended by
John Dewar & Sons Ltd., Sydney and
Harboctle Brown & Co, Pty. Ltd., Sydney
J
$
DWB7
an aria better than that from
Giordano’s “Andrea Chenier”
to do full justice to his voice.
Films
“Witness for the Prosecu-
tion”
This United Artists’ screen-
version of the Agatha Christie
play must go close to being
one of the best suspense-
thrillers yet. It has an excellent
plot with an ingenious double-
denouement, and the court-
room scenes which comprise the
main setting would be hard to
fault. And director Billy
Wilder, who gives pace, polish
and lucidity to it, ' all, has
secured some rich characterisa-
tions from his players.
Charles Laughton, as Sir
Wilfrid Robards, the peppery,
brilliant Q.C. who leads for'
the defence in the murder trial
at the Old Bailey, is quite out-
standing. Whether he is shoot-
ing-in a subtle question in
cross-examination, or making
a swift and incisive appraisal m
his chambers of the aspects of
the case, Laughton unfailingly
gives the impression of
brilliance at work. His little
touches of the counter-
balancing comedy are deft and
sure.
Marlene Dietrich, in the title-
role as the accused’s wife,
skims plenty of cream off the
dramatic opportunities in the
final sequences. Tyrone
Power’s accused is a well-
judged performance right up
to the final knock.
Judge, junior-counsel, in-
structing solicitor, and nurse
(Elsa Lanchester) are all
expertly handled! The flashback
technique used to bring earlier
events into focus is clear and
concise.
At Sydney Regent.
<s►
“The Brothers Karamazov”
Writer - director Richard
Brooks has compressed
Dostoievsky’s monu-
mental novel into about 140
minutes’ running-time without
unduly distorting the story or
characters. The characters of
the four sons are well drawn:
the reckless, gambling but in-
herently decent Army lieutenant
Dmitri; the conciliatory, pity-
ing monk Alexei; the cynical,
atheistic journalist Ivan ; and
the slothful, cunning epileptic
Smyrdyakov.
The film is stolen, however,
by that fine actor Lee Cobb,
whose portrait of the elder
Karamazov captures each facet
of his character with keen-
edged fidelity. Yul Brynner’s
Dmitri is convincing enough,
and Richard Baseheart, as
Ivan, is adequate.
Maria Schell, as the amiable
paramour of both father and
son, displays on suitable
occasions the sharp claws with
which Dostoievsky armed her,
and generally gives a good
account of the role. The lovely
Katerina, who is driven to en-
compass Dmitri's conviction at
his trial, is sensitively played
by Claire Bloom.
At Sydney Liberty.
% ♦♦♦ '
“Windom’s Way”
In this Malaya-set drama
Peter Finch has the role of a
dedicated doctor whose sym-
pathy with the natural aspira-
tions of the rubber-plantation
workers sets him at odds wfith
a plantation-manager who con-
siders the natives have no rights
except to work.
It adds-up to drama of good
dimensions and strength, with
Finch always easily authorita-
tive as the doc. Mary Ure, as
the wife, is only fair, but
Natasha Parry is charming as
the devoted Eurasian sister at
the hospital.
At Sydney State.
*> ❖ ♦*
“Dreams in the Drawer”
The plot of this Italian-made
film (with English sub-titles)
is the simplest: a medical
student and a chemistry student
elope, lacking parental permis-
sion, and the young wife dies in
childbirth.
Tt is mainly a comedy—of
the fun of student-days, of
elopement, of trouble with in-
laws, of jousts with prim land-
ladies, of the wife being rushed
to hospital on false-alarms,
and so forth. The intrusion of
tragedy in the final live minutes
is jarring and redundant.
The comedy has been
sketched-in with a lively aware-
ness of human foibles; the
domestic scenes are full of
natural touches ; and the young
lovers (Lea Massari and
Enrico Pagani) are delightful in
in their naturalness.
At Sydney Vogue.
Arthursts
John Eldershaw
A special exhibition of
paintings by John Eldershaw,
who lived in Tasmania for 15
years and did some of his
finest watercolors there, is to
open at the Queen Victoria
Art Gallery, Launceston, on
July 21. The works exhibited
will be from galleries and
private collections.
❖ ❖ ♦>.
Melbourne Art
It is refreshing to see a show
as solid, serious and self-
sufficing as Harley Griffith’s
exhibition at Melbourne
Athenaeum. None of his pic-
tures is reminiscent of some
other artist, though many are
reminiscent of Nature, especi-
aly his European landscapes
painted during a tour of Italy,
Spain, France and the Tyrol.
“The Fountain Steps, Rome,”
is rich in color warm with
sunlight, and his “Sunlight,
Spanish -Village,” adequately
illustrates the title. Except for
his singing “Snow, Olinda,” he
is not so happy in his large
Australian landscapes with
their narrower range of
contrasts.
Holding a first show at the
Tasmanian Tourist Bureau’s
gallery is Moonyeen Mc-
Neilage. Her method of build-
ing up a picture seems to be a
survival of some bygone era
when monks decorated missals
and ladies wove tapestries or
made pictures out of shells.
Even the . forms are medieval,
'but there is a certain refine-
ment about her treatment which
condones her lack of know-
ledge.
A fortnight's festival of the
Christian arts in the glorious
precincts of St. Paul’s
Cathedral, Melbourne, includes
the works of Justin O’Brien
(“The Virgin Enthroned”), Roy
de Maistre (“The Entomb-
ment”), Russell Drysdale, John
Rowell, Arthur Boyd and
Georges Rouault, this last,
“Christ on the Veil of
Veronica,” being from the
Felton Bequest collection.
The cathedral is one of the
loveliest buildings in Mel-
bourne, and' although its carv-
ing may not be as good as in the
great examples of the Gothic,
it is still in the great tradition.
The form is Gothic, and within
that form the architect showed
a great deal of imagination,
plus a feeling for shape, tone
and color, something which
most modern artists conspicu-
ously lack. Nevertheless, the
pictures fit into their ecclesi-
astical environment better


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £81,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street. SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Au itraiia.
Divcrce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—I.v Divorce.
Matrimonial Caches Jurisdiction
TO MONA MAY LUTTON and ALFRED
HENRY McFARLANE late of Sydney in
the State of New South Wales.—TAKE
NOTICE that ALBERT DOUGLAS
LUTTON has filed a Petition No. 2109
of 1998 praying for a Divorce from
MONA MAY LUTTON on the ground of
her adultery with ALFRED HENRY
McFARLANE If either of you wish to
defend you mav 'enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by the 22nd day
of September 1958 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. ADRIAN TWIGG & CO., Soli-
citors, of No. lfiO Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
JLvtrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO WLADYSLAW ZAWADZKA.—TAKE
NOTICE that RAJA ZAWADZKA has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2737 of
1957 on the grounds of your having de-
serted her during three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the Ist September 1958 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. H. G. SLARKE
& CO„ Solicitors, of G 2 Margaret Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
than would have been expected,
Even Sidney Nolan’s “Crucifix,
Southern Italy,” does not seem
incongruous, and the “Raising
of Lazarus,” by Walter Sickert,
looks startlingly alive.
The Museum of Modern
Art of Australia is the grandiose
title the Melbourne Contem-
poraries have given themselves.
On show at the moment are
Picasso-like pictures of girls
with woebegone expressions, by
Laurence Hope, and of ducks,
hens and houses, by Harry
Raynor.
“I simply demanded the article EXACTLY as advertised.”
At the Sedon Galleries, Ago
Agostini is displaying under-
water pictures painted presum-
ably while diving in the waters
round Noumea. “Submarine
Panorama” and “Aquarium
Under the Sea” very nearly
succeed in giving a fishes’-eye
view of their unusual subject-
matter. Robert Tavernier, who
contributes four landscapes to
the exhibition, belongs to the
academic tradition of the
’eighties.
The Victorian Artists’
Society is staging the most
unusual exhibition in Mel-
bourne. It is a show of
portraits by past and present
members and includes Max
Meldrum’s portrait of his
mother, Justus Jorgensen’s self-
portrait, Colin Colahan’s
portrait of Dr. John Dale,
Longstaff’s -“The Black Hat,”
a girl in furs by Esther Pater-
son, Frederick McCubbin’s
portrait of his son Hugh, a
self-portrait by Hugh Ramsay,
a self-portrait by Will Dyson,
sculptor John Tweed by James
Quinn, Tom Roberts by George
Coates and Lesley Sinclair’s
“Mrs. L. K. Rose.” Most of
them are old-timers and most
have been loaned by the
National Gallery from its
collection. They all belong to
a good tradition, and, if some
are successes and some are
failures, at least their authors
were trying to do something,
and not merely trying to fit
into some passing fad.
Safe Conduct
When the curtain rises on a
stage-setting in which an oven
or a furnace is prominent it is
instantly clear that the heat will
be turned on and that human
sacrifice will be involved. In
“Speaking of Murder” (St.
Martin’s Theatre, London) the
execution chamber is less
horrific. It is a mere safe, but
a large one, rather incon-
gruously situated in the
drawing-room of a country-
house.
Auntie Annabelle, like the
little girl in The Turn of the
Screw, must have her own
way and has found by experi-
ence that extinction of the
obstruction is the neatest and
most conclusive way of getting
it.
In this instance, despite the
anxieties of coping with black-
mail (from the gin-addicted
governess of her earliest victim),
she chooses to liquidate Connie,
who, coming as the second wife
of Charles, naturally challenges
her authority as housekeeper
and foster-mother.
How then to inveigle Connie
into the safe, to bang the door
on her and to lay the blame
on the devilment of Charles’s
nine-year-son? A pilot experi-
ment of trying it on the dog, a
Corgi, is frighteningly success-
ful. The rest is imaginative,
resourceful and anything bdt
undisturbed mapceuvre. What
happens is not for disclosure,
but the combination-lock and
the door of the safe are in
frequent commission and the
final twist is unexpected'. The
cast of nine, headed by Maxine
Audley, engagingly two-faced
as gracious hostess and relent-
less homicide, performs with
exhilarating freshness and,
notwithstanding two child-
actors and a dog, keeps the
play in balance.
It is a gripping enough play,
not quite as skilful as “Dial
‘M’ for Murder” nor as flesh-
creeping as “The Innocents,”
but with richer human values
than both.
Despite the incidence of the
bus-strike, bookings are good
and a two-year-run is expected.
The story behind the pre-
sentation of the play is interest-
ing. Australian Spencer Teakle
(who, among other things,
introduced Canasta to his
homeland) was 'acting in New
York a year ago when he
learned that his sister and other
relatives from Sydney were in
England. He decided to meet
them and, shoitly before sailing,
saw the final matinee of this
play. He negotiated the rights
and brought it with him. Later
he teamed-up with Canadian
Neil McCallum, and the two
formed a company, Auscan
Productions.
To have found a winner with
their first venture is a con-
siderable achievement in the
chancy business of play-pro-
motion. All reviews but one
were rave-notices and the
potentates of Shaftesbury
Avenue are pouring out their
congratulations.
Another interesting fact is
that the adaptation to an
English setting bears no Eng-
lishman’s touch, for it was
done by Teakle with the sub-
stantial help of Australian Lynn
Foster and finally vetted by the
original American authors,
Audrey and William Roos. And
a third Australian, Lance Mul-
pahy, has composed the inci-
dental music.
Auscan intends to introduce
Australian and Canadian plays
to London. Teakle tells me that
Sumner Locke-Elliott’s comedy
of the Northern Territory in
war-time, “Rusty Bugles,” is
already under active considera-
He is hoping for a “com-
pletely Australian” backing
and cast and intends to go
into production next autumn.
A play by a Canadian author is
being negotiated.
HERBERT HOLMAN.


The WILDCAL
COLUMN
James Hardie Asbestos, Ltd.
AJSZeII-padded financially, James Hardie
’ ’ Asbestos, Ltd., would have little
difficulty in increasing its annual payout
to members, but in anticipating such a
move the sharemarket appears to have
squeezed most of the speculative profit
out of the situation ; it prices the co.’s
f.-p. £1 ords.at 535. to return £3 15s. 6d.
p.c. at the current (10 p.c.) rate of dis-
tribution. At this price it would take a
two-for-three bonus-issue or an equi-
valent lift in the div.-rate (to 16f p.c.)
to push the effective return past 6 p.c.
Since the sdrip was listed, in 1951,
shareholders have been treated to two
bonus-issues, the most recent , a one-for-
two affair in 1955, being followed by the
reduction of the div.-rate from 15 p.c.
to 10 p.c. - .
A member of the successful and well-
handled Hardie group, James Hardie
Asbestos boasts reserves of £3,233,663,
well in excess of the £1,997,500 paid
capital. The co. habitually provides more
for taxation than it claims as net profit,
but, despite this fact, still manages to
keep published earnings at an attractive
level.
Subsidiary operating-cos., with factories
in all mainland States and New Zealand,
manufacture a variety of asbestos-cement
products, including fiat- and corrugated-
sheets, guttering, downpipes, electrical
conduit, high-pressure waterpipes and
automotive brake-linings and clutch-
facings. A portion of the group’s asbestos
requirements is supplied by an,asbestos-
mining offshoot working at Baryulgil, in
N.S.W.
Although sales of some lines have been
restricted over the past few years by
variations in the rate of home-building,
overall turnover has risen steadily and
the board is pushing ahead with a five-
year expansion programme, financed
mainly from undistributed profits. A
second brake-lining plant was completed
last term and one of the three new pipe-
plants (two in Australia, one in N.Z.)
under construction during the year is
now in operation.
Greater competition was experienced
in the building-materials market last
term (to March 31), but group turnover
(unstated) continued to grow, and im-
proved production efficiency helped to
offset increases in raw-material and other
costs.
Equal to 18.3 p.c. on ord. capital, net-
profit for the year, as claimed, was
£27,333 stronger at £364,443, calculated
after sending £52,686 (up £20,382)
various staff-funds and providing
£462,574 (up £20,382) for taxation,
£314,271 for depreciation and £250,000
for plant-replacement. In the previous
term a total of £480,802 (as against last
year’s £564,271) was provided for depre-
ciation and plant-replacement:
Consolidated Fiuures.
Mar. To Re- Re-
-31, Profit. Dividends. senes. serves.*
£ £ £ £
Added resen’es, £3451 .. .. 1,639,464
1953. .293,835 8 p.c. = 92,000 201,835 1,841,299
Reserves appear on acquisitions of
assets, £6913 .. .. ... .. 1,848.212
Added reserves, £78,572 .. .. 1.926,784
1954. .301,777 124 p.c. =143,750 158,027 2%084.811
Reserves capitalised, £114.917.. . .k 1,969,894
Added reserves, £100.046 .. ... 2,069,940
1955. .438,249 15 p.c. =189,750 248,499 2.318,439
Assets revalued, £725,822 3,047,261
Reserves capitalised, £632,500 .. 2,414,761
Reduction in res'erves, £3244 .-. 2,411,517
19561.359,029 10 p.c. =189,750 169,279 2,580,796
Added reserves on acquisition of sul>
sidiary, etc., £117,705 .. .. 2,698,501
Additions, sinking fund, £3959 ' .. 2,702,460
1957. .337,110 10 p.c. =197,250 139,860 2,842,320
To depreciation provision, £23,350.. 2.818,970
Add provision plant replacement,
£250,000 .
1958. .364,443 10 p.c. =199,750 164,693 3,233,663
■ * Subject to goodwill, £98,449 at 31/3/’SB.
Earnings were, in fact, a lot better than
those, shown above, recognition of the
provision for plant-replacement as an
appropriation giving a net profit of
£614,443, while, if the tax-provision is
regarded as a true indicator of earnings,
the actual net profit was somewhere
around double the figure claimed by the
board.
Over £1 million was outlaid on plant
and premises last term, with the emphasis,
apparently, on the waterpipe and brake-
lining sections of the business, deprecia-
tion leaving the net addition to book-
values (1955 valuation or cost, less depre-
ciation) at £809,207:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1956. 1957. 1958.
Pnid capital .. £1,897,500 £1,997,500 £1,997.500
Reserves . . 2,580,796 2,842,320 3,233,663
Mortgage .. 300,000 364,480 491,250
Overdraft .. 367,979 167,563 231,581
Creditors, etc. .. 1,195.880 1,082,425 1,263,056
Tax provision .. 801L747 906,721 965,830
Suspense .. 4,434 58,820
Final dividend .. 91,875 99,875 99.575
£7,308,211 £7,520,701 £8,253 ; 355
Freeholds, plant,
etc 2.957.339 3,264,231 4.073,438
Shares .. .. 231,119 206,119 206,119
Stocks .. .. 2,857,869 2,224,409 2,371,195
Debtors .. .. 1,003.291 1,323,274 1,397,672
Cash, bonds .. 70,144 ''404,162 87,930
Suspense . . ..
Goodwill .. .. 98,449 98.449 98.449
£7,308,211 £7,520,70.4 £8,283,355
The heavy capital-expenditure was largely
financed from retained earnings, provi-
sions and a £126,770 increase in the
but holdings of cash,
etc., fell by £316,232 and working-capital
by £339,646 (to £1,295,855). At balance-
date each £1 ord. was supported by net
tangible assets of a little under 525. sd.
Fairymead Sugar Co., Ltd.
A near-record outturn in terms of tons
n.t.-sugar produced combined with
_ high-level world prices last term to give
Queensland sugargrowers their second-
best season to date. With the N.S.W.
trifle lumped-in, statistics show an
equivalent 94 n.t. tonnage for 1957 of
1,290,000 tons, 83,000 tons higher than
for the previous crushing, and only 37,000
tons below the 1954 record. Actual cane
cut was 35,000 tons below the 1956
figure, but the generally drier weather
boosted the sucrose content of the crop
by an overall average of 0.8 p.c.
Nature, however, played favorites, and
while their northern confreres luxuriated
in their tropical windfall, growers centred
on Bundaberg and most points south
were forced to stand on the sidelines,
unable to coax anything approaching an
overall mill-peak out of their drought-
scarred enclave.
By way of compensation, an excellent
southern crop is expected this time round
following favorable rains early in the
current year, despite poor ratooning in
some quarters —but only part compensa-
tion, for now the “spot” quotes for
refined sugar have sagged far below the
levels to which they rose in the six months
that followed the Suez crisis. World
prices, which had touched 6.8 cents a
pound in April, 1957, in general too
early to benefit the bulk of last season’s
make proportionately, have gradually
trended down to last month’s average 3.55
cents a pound.
Bundaberg-based Fairymead had more
than its fair share of troubles last year,
and from a harvest of 182,120 (down
134,408) tons of cane could only pro-
duce 22,906 tons n.t. of raws towards its
mill-peak of 37,500 tons. Doubly caught
between the crossfire of the drought and
an accelerated cost-spiral—heavy wage-
increases for sugar-workers ranging from
245. to 31s. a week, and an uplift in rail-
freights on cane and sugar, 50 p.c. and
16f p.c. respectively, began to make their
presence felt toward the end of the 1956
term —the old-established (incorporated
in 1912) planter and sugar-miller came
very near to recording its first loss for
close on 40 years :
To Re- Re-
Dec., ■( Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1951.. 11.547 8 p.r. = 40,000 781,913
Share premiums, £125,000 .. .. 906,913
•Added replacement reserve, £36,432 .. 943,345
.Insurance reserve, £2500 .. .. 945,845
1952.. 89,422 10 p.c. = 70,833 18,589 964,434
Added replacement reserve, £37,628 1,002,062
To insurance- reserve, £2500 .. 1,004,562
1953.. 137,618' 12 p.c. = 90,000 47,618 1,052,180
Added replacement reserve £51,316.'. 1,103,496
To insurance reserve, £2500 .. 1,105,996
1954.. 185,018 14 p.c. = 105,000 80,018 1,186,014
Added replacement reserve, £37,224 .. 1,223,238
'To insurance reserve, £415 .. .. 1,223,653
1955.. 131,655 12 p.c. = 90,000 41,655 1,265,308
Added replacement reserve, £60,828 1,326,136
To insurance reserve, £1431 .. 1,327,567
1956.. 201,318 12p.e.= 90,000 111.318 1,438,885
Added replacement reserve, £10,830.. 1,449,715
Profit salp assets, £53,095 .. .. 1.502,810
1957.. 9,394 12 p.c..= 90,000 1,422,204
* Includes replacement reserve, £033,889 at
31/12/’57.
Fairymead’s accounts give no indication
of pre-tax earnings, but £61,967 (up
£1691) for depreciation on “sugar works,
plant, machinery, etc.,” was charged
against p. and 1. to arrive at the net profit
of £9394, which contrasted sharply with
the record £201,318 claimed in 1956.
Notwithstanding the “adverse effect of
this really disastrous year” and the fact
that “it will take some time to recover
the leeway,” the board had no hesitation
in drawing on reserve in order to finance
the £90,000 called-up by the unchanged
12 p.c. dividend, no doubt strengthened
in its confident policy by a tidy capital-
profit of £53,095 gleaned from the sale


of fixed assets in the course of the year.
As with all primary industries, sugar
has its ups and downs, but a relative
frequency of ups has ensured a fair return
on mean capital employed—an average of
16.2 p.c. over the last decade and 18.3
p.c., 24.6, 17.6, 26.8, 1.2 p.c ffom 1953
onward.
Balance-sheet movements for the year
show net additions to estate-development
and plant totalling £355,160, a reflection
of Fairymead’s counter-measures against
drought and transport-costs. The irriga-
tion system was extended during the year
“at considerable capital-outlay,” too late
to circumvent the immediate calamity but
such as to allay much anxiety regarding
future dry-spells. Complementary with
this, the Q.G.R. is politely given its fare-
well, effective from the end of the 1958
crushing, and “a hitherto extremely
hazardous and costly set-up has been
done away with in favor of a much
improved and advantageous system”—
i.e., the “rezoning of cane supplies and
the construction of our own tramways
and bridges.”
So far the heavy outlay on_fixed capital
has had no apparent repercussion on
total indebtedness, but the drain on
working capital has been severe —visibly,
at least:
1955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £750,000 £750,000 £750.000
Reserves .. .. 1,265,308 1.438,885 1,422,204
Creditors, etc.* .. 818,734 1,071,810 1,087,114
Final div. .. 45,000 45,000 45,000
£2,879,042 £3,305,695 £3,304,318
Estates .. .. 529,769 528.938 561,614
Factories, etc. .. 1,341.232 1,568,017 1,890,501
Shares in subsid. 5,300 5,800 5,300
Livestock . . .. 57,682 63,73 t 45,158
Stocks, etc. . . 288,839 410,601 297,850
Book debts .. 648,682 718,614 477,420
Cash, etc. .. 1 7,538 10,488 , 26.469
£2,879,042 £3,305,695 £3,304,318
* Includes provision for taxation.
Apart from the final dividend, current
liabilities —creditors, overdraft, tax-pro-
vision, “etc.,” are comprised by the one
omnibus item. Floating assets amount
to only £801,745, so that working capital
is'apparently exceeded by these liabilities
to the tune of £330,369. But no doubt
Fairymead’s sleeves conceal a few aces.
And fixed assets, say the directors, have
been independently valued at a figure
“very considerably” in excess of book-
values, which give each 20s. share a net
tangible cover of 575. lid.
The sharemarket is frankly convinced
that a bonus-issue is not beyond the
bounds of possibility in the foreseeable
future and accepts a 4.7 p.c. yield as a
fair immediate return from the current
market price of 51s.
Bankers and Traders’ Insurance Co.
A fter a slip of almost 20 p.c. in the
1957 term, earnings of Bankers and
Traders’ Insurance Co., Ltd., advanced,
last term, to the highest point recorded
by the co. in its 37 years as an under-
writer of fire, marine and accident risks.
With a touch of modesty—inherited, per-
haps, from its original co-sponsor and
godparent, Burns, Philp and Co. —the co.
makes no reference to this record-break-
ing achievement in its annual report to
shareholders.
In common with most accident offices,
Bankers and Traders’ was troubled, once
again, last term by the level of claims
under workers’-compensation and motor-
vehfcle policies, but, in total, net
premiums grew a little faster than losses,
and the higher premium income helped
to compensate for a small increase in
the expense-rate.
However, the fatter underwriting
surplus was basically due to a substantial
reduction in the annual lay-by for urtex-
pired risks, a normal consequence of a
slackening in the rate of expansion, and
an impressive 19 p.c. leap in investment-
income provided one of the most pleasing
features of the accounts.
Represented by underwriting- or
settling-agents in many parts of the world,
the Sydney-controlled Bankers and
Traders’ has five branches in South
Africa and East Africa, in addition to its
27 Australian branches. Inflation and
the expansion of both local and overseas
operations have lifted net premium in-
come by almost 150 p.c. over the last
decade, the £116,275 of new share-capital
put up by shareholders during this period
raising' paid captial (in £1 ords. paid to
12s. 6d.) from £196,225 to £312,500.
Stiff competition was encountered in
Australian and world markets last term,
and the gain in net premium income over
the year (to March 31) was limited to
£43,506, as against a jump of £128,515 in
the preceding term:
Ex-
Net Ex- Loss pence
Premiums Losses. penses.* Ratio, Ratio,
£ £ £ p.c. p.c.
1954 . . ,1,236,778 754,246 460,942 61.0 37.2
1955 .. 1,269,686 796,569 441.413 62.7 34.7
1956 .. 1,420,260 883,062 449,301 62.2 31.6.
1957 .. 1,548,775 952.628 534,322. 61.5 34.5
1958 .. 1,592,281 971.383 572,026 61.0 35.8
* Excludes tax on investment income.
Down 10s. p.c., claims took 61 p.c. of
net premiums, but, at 35.8 p.c., expenses
gobbled-up an extra 265. p.c., and it was
the much lower addition (down £34,500
at £17,000) to the reserve for unexpired
risks, which put the spring into the under-
writing surplus, up £21,547 at £31,872.
Investment income, including a div.
from the wholly-owned Consolidated
Insurances Pty., rose by £8930 to £55,079,
this promising improvement bringing
earnings from all sources up to £86,951,
or £30,477 above the previous term’s
showing:
To Re- Re-
March, Surplus. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
To reserve unexpired risk, £54,000 .. 748,750
1951 .. 53,06£ 12A p.c. = 30,660 22,402 771.152
To reserve unexpired risk, £50,000 .. 821,152
1952 .. 23,571 124 p.c. = 30,660 814.063
1953 .. 28,766 124 „ ~ 30,660 812.169
1954 . . 63,147 124 ~ .. 30,660 32,487 844.656
To reserve unexpired risks, £13,000 .. 857,65< !
1955 .. 62,045 124 p.c. = 30,660 31,385 *=89.041
To reserve unexp. risks, £60,500 . . 940,541
1956 .. 70.099 124 p.c. - 30.660 39,439 988_,950
To reserve unexp. risks, £51,500 .. 1,040,480
1957 '.. 56,474 124 p.c. = 33,601 22,873 1.068,353
To reserve unexpired risks, £17,000 .. 1,080,353
1958 .. 86,951 124 p*c. = 39,062 47.859 1,128,242
* Includes reserve unexpired risks, £637,000
at 3-l/3/’SB. _
All told, earnings represented a return
of 27.8 p.c. on share-capital (10.2 p.c.
underwriting, 17.6 p.c. investments), com-
pared with 21 p.c. on average capital in
the preceding year and 28.5, 25.3 and
11.7 p.cx back to 1954.
As a general rule the board looks to
investments to cover div.-requirements,
leaving the underwriting surplus to
strengthen reserves —and future invest-
ment income. There was certainly no
need to stretch a point, in this regard,
last term, the 12F p.c. div., the tenth
successive distribution at this rate, calling
for only 70 p.c. of the higher investment
income.
The financial structure looks particu-
larly solid, 'share-capital enjoying the
support of £1,128,241 of reserves, of
which £637,000 (an adequate 40 p.c. of
net premiums) is earmarked for unexpired
risks:
19.56. 1957. 1958.
Paid capital - .. £245.281 £312,500 £312,500
Reserves .. .. 420,478 443,351 491,241
Unexpired risks . . 568,500 620,000 637,000
Owing to subsids. 50,056 55,994 47,543
Outstanding claims,
etc 574,622 588,781 681,709
Sundry creditors,
etc.* . . . . 67,022 141.429 210,199
Final divs. ~ 15,330 18,271 19,530
£1,941,289 £2,180,326 £2,399,722
Freeholds . . 376,853 387,942 425,074
Advances co-op.t 202,898 201.993 196,810
Shares, subsids... 69,996 69,996 69,995
Shares other cos... 253,032 312,632 433,217
Book-debtsv etc. .. 300.743 377,110 451,749
Govt, securities .. 637,574 698,427 685,443
Cash .. .. 100,193 132,226 137,434
• £1,941,289 £2,180,326 £2,399,722
* Includes provision for tax, contingencies, etc.
t Advances to building co-op. societies, etc.
A sizeable wad of Government securities
remains the backbone of the investment
portfolio, but, in the investment of addi-
tional funds, the emphasis last year was
on shares and debentures, which at
balance-date represented 18 p.c. of total
assets, as against 13 p.c. at the end of
the 1956 term.
Offering holders a high degree of
security and attractive long-term pros-
pects, Bankers and Traders’ £1 ords. paid
to 12s. 6d. sold at 41s. 6d. last week to
return £3 16s. Id. from a 12i p.c. distri-
bution. Including the reserve for unex-
pired risks (255. 6d. per share) with share-
holders’ funds, net tangible asset backing
at March 31 last was 575. Bd.
H. McKenzie, Ltd.
With homebuilding restricted by in-
adequate finance, gross-profit mar-
gins determined by the State prices-com-
missioner and imports limited by quota,
N.S.W. timber-merchants are in no posi-
tion to run-up spectacular profits. Never-
theless, in the case of the Sydney-based
timber-merchant, H. McKenzie, Ltd.,
investors appear to have made suitable
allowances for these circumstances by
pricing the co.’s f.-p. ss. ords. at ss. 6d.
to return £9 2s. lOd. p.c. from a 10 p.c.
distribution. Divs. have been sent out
at this rate in each of the last eight
years, a 1| p.c. bonus being added in
the 1956 term to mark the organisation’s
fiftieth year as a public co.
In its earlier years, H. McKenzie held
various timber-cutting leases in N.S.W.,
Queensland and New Zealand, but expiry
of leases, depletion of timbef'-stands and
financial difficulties —which cost share-
holders 10s. 6d. in the £ over the ten
years to 1934 —brought this side of the
business to a halt, and today the co. is
active as a timber-importer, -merchant
and -processor, joinery-manufacturer and
wallboard-distributor.
After six years at 9.4 p.c., the div.-
rate was increased to 10 p.c. in 1950,


Divorce Notice
TO THOMAS BERNARD GRAHAM
address unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
your wife FREDA .10V GRAHAM lias
commenced proceedings against you in
the Supreme Court of Western Aus-
tralia for Divorce on the ground of
desertion by you for a continuous
period of three years or more or alterna-
tively separation for a continuous
period of not less than five years im-
mediately preceding the commencement
of the action there being no reasonable
likelihood of cohabitation being re-
sumed If you desire to defend such pro-
ceedings you must file your defence
in the Central Office of the Supreme
Court at Perth within fort.v clear days
from the date of this publication In
default of your so doing the case may
proceed and the Court will pronounce
judgment and make, orders against you
in vour absence. —DATED this Ist day
of July. 19f>8.-r-J. E. SHILLINGTON,
Acting Registrar.
Missing Friend
ESTATE OF CHARLES COOPER
WOULD CHARLES COOPER or GER-
TRUDE ALICE COOPER, children of
CHARLES COOPER, late of Wellington,
New Zealand, retired Seaman, who died
on the 11th March, 1958, or anyone
knowing their whereabouts, please com-
iminicate with the DISTRICT PL T BI.IC
TRUSTEE, P.O. Box 5024, Wellington,
New Zealand ?
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
A Swiss holiday, which used
to be one of the most
expensive in Europe, can now
work out quite reasonably if
a few requirements are borne
in mind. The secret is to travel
out of the “high season,” to
avoid the fashionable places,
and to watch the “extras” care-
fully. Even though the pound
seems to lose about a third of
its purchasing-power' when
converted into francs,, it is still
possible to enjoy a holiday of
better value and cheaper cost
than in the three surrounding
countries.
There are logical explana-
tions of this apparent anomaly.
Switzerland is fundamentally
a poor country with a per-
petual balance -of - payments
problem. Survival depends
entirely upon the ingenuity
and industry of its people and
upon its scenery. Because, with
perhaps one exception; there
is no longer a wealthy elite able
to take its protracted leisure
in the Bernese Oberland and
the Grisons, hoteliers have to
quote competitive en pension
terms for the new clientele-
ordinary folk who have to
work for a living. And, being
Switzerland, the high standards
of cleanliness, cooking and
supervision extend to the lower
categories of hotel. Moreover,
the Mate encourages the tourist
by giving him substantial con-
cessions on rail-tickets, cable-
cars, excursions and the like.
Given fair weather, a pair
of stout shoes and the will
to keep out-of-doors, even the
elderly can—and very notice-
ably do —ask for packed
lunches and spend their days
walking. It is nearly always
practicable to avoid the steeper
climbs by lofting oneself up
the mountains in a ski-lift and
returning by an old mule-
track.
Indeed, observation rather
suggests that it is far wiser to
choose one or more centres
than to do the Grand Tour,
new style. Nowadays, the
wealthy elite appears to come
from across the Atlantic and
to consist of married couples,
well past middle-life, who are
resolutely determined to see
all Europe in a two-month.
This rushing about from one
country to another, taking in
all the sights, dropping in at
the Brussels Exhibition and
flying to London for a three-
day peep, obviously exacts a
heavy tbll. Whatever the out-
comes may be, simple enjoy-
ment and relaxation are
clearly not among them.
Zematt
Whether the Whymper
legend has haunted your boy-
hood or ifot, a first sight of
the world’s best-known moun-
taineering centre is enchant-
ing. It even makes the low-
lander, who normally wouldn’t
have the nerve to cross a 30ft.
parapet, want to rush into a
shop and buy an ice-axe.
Within reach are no fewer
than 30 peaks over 14,000 ft.
in height and an appropriate
number of glaciers, many of
them readily accessible on
foot.- Zermatt is also one of
the few places left in this
world of rapid communica-
tions which can be reached
only by mule-track or railway ;
the motorist must leave his car
down the valley and proceed
by electric train.
Astonishingly, - though 40
miles up a tortuous valley,
Zermatt is older than Berne,
the capital. The villagers, they
say, until fairly recently
believed that the whole world
was snow - capped mountains
and deep valleys. It was, in
size if not in worldly ignorance,
a village up to only five or so
years ago, but is now spread-
ing, not very comfortably,
across to the other bank of
the Viege. The older part is
so narrowly confined between
the river and the mountain-
side that it has only one street
—the rest are no more than
passages leading from it.
From the middle of July
until the end of August, some
5000 visitors will crowd into
this one street. They will all
have arrived, with varying
degrees of purpose, to take
stock of Zermatt’s prime
attraction, the Matterhorn,
whose sinister pyramid (an
optical illusion, by the way)
dominates not only the village
but also every shop-window
and every motif, even the ash-
trays.
This “high-season” concen-
tration is another, less manage-
able, consequence of the new
order in Swiss holidays and
a source of real concern to
hoteliers, who are driven
frantic by excessive demands
on their accommodation and
services. They naturally prefer
the steady winter-sports cus-
tom in the months from
February to early May.
According to one of them, the
height of almost of
fantasy, occurred last July
when a guide friend of his
counted 110 people on the
summit of the Matterhorn!
Any More for the Summit?
A large space at the entrance
to the churchyard is set aside
for the bodies of those who
“met with ill-luck” on the
mountain-faces. There are
many graves. And, last sum-
mer alone, some 20 persons
fell to death from the Matter-
horn. Yet there are more than
100 qualified guides who,
mostly doubling mountaineer-
ing with ski-tuition, make a
very fair living. It is rare foj
a guide to be killed, and even
rarer for, one of his charges.
Most fatal accidents, one is
assured, are due to foolhardi-
ness and all that goes with it
—inexperience, unfitness, un-
preparedness and lack of
knowledge. In other words,
any stranger who thinks he
can climb the Alps- without
instruction is plain crazy and
suicidal.
Three years ago, a 21-year-
old New York girl arrived at
Zermatt in city clothes and
five-inch heels. She had never
seen a mountain before and
was fascinated. Within 10-
days she had climbed the
Matterhorn, becoming the only
woman ever to have made the
original Whymper ascent up
the north face. Miss Allen was
exceptional,' for within a few
hours of engaging a guide she
was practising rock-climbing
on the nursery Riffeihorn and
is to be seen, in a splendid
color-film, suspended en rappel
with nothing between herself
and the ground but some
hundreds of metres of perilous
void. Later"sequences show
the Matterhorn ascent in
detail. The guides are as
methodical, phlegmatic and
unconcerned as if they were
mowing a lawn. By , a coinci-
dence, the camera-lens picked
up a fatal slip on the part of
two ill-prepared amateurs,
clearly proving that the craft
must be learned slowly.
It is unlikely that other
tyros have the same natural
flair as Miss Allen. Nor is it
necessary. Most evenings dur-
ing the open season (July to
October) guides hang about
on the look-out for clients.
Anybody who is fit and who
can stand heights is capable
of being coaxed up to the
summit and, more vitally, of
being lowered safely down.
After being fitted with the
equipment, including boots
and crampons, he (or she)
leaves Zermatt at midday for
a base-hut (10,800 ft.) four
hours’ walking distance away.
After a rest until three-o’clock
next morning the party sets-
out by artificial light for the
Solvay hut (the spot at
13,000 ft. where Whymper
camped for the night), which
it reaches at six.
A tough five-hour climb,
with fixed ropes for the last
bit, gets them to the summit
(14,770 ft.) by eleven, in time for
an early return to escape the
hazards of melting snow and
falling stones. For greater
safety, extra guides are avail-
able over the last stretch.
The cost is upwards of £lB
(Australian), the guide stipu-
lating that he be paid his fee
free of expense. As always,
the majority of climbers are
English, of whom many,
though, are by no means
novices.
Most accidents occur on the
•way back, not because coming
down is more difficult than
going up, but because of
tiredness, which makes for
carelessness and lack of con-
centration. This is classically
borne out by the celebrated
tragedy of the Whymper
descent in 1865. After dawd-
ling lightheartedly at the
summit, they decided not to
descend severally but to tie the
three ropes together. Hadow,
the youngest member, was
exhausted and his reputed slip
is believed to have started the
fall which cost four out of the
seven lives. And, so grim and
pitiless is that north face, the
body of Lord Francis Douglas
has still not been recovered.


‘ v • • 1 .
-
d^oreyeyo'
ggSggMa
WMm
\
£o
*§i
'ridi,.,.
*m
i
w«W
5
mvm&m.
%
»>«•>
Mi
%
lii
■■-
i
■
=%►
v.w-.0,
ssi^r^
mm
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES, DISTILLED & BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
Arthur Bell & Sons Ltd., Distillers , Penh , beuilartd. Lst. 1825
eat huge meals, sit down
immediately in front of his
books, and never feel a twinge
of indigestion; swallow great
quantities of alcohol, and never
turn a hair. And he took no
exercise other than occasional
short walks.
His nose was „ large ami
fleshy ; not altogether aquiline,
though it had a noticeable
curve. It was a big Irish nose
rather than an eagle’s beak,
and helped to give that im-
pression of a Catholic prelate
that has been felt by many
people, including Lionel Lind-
say [whose impression of
Brennan is the frontispiece in
The Chant of Doom j. This im-
pression is probably explained
by the fact that in Australia
so many of the Catholic clergy
are Irish by birth or origin.
People accordingly generalise,
and take"it for granted that
prelates have large noses and
long upper lips.
His hair ‘Was dark, and Ire
allowed it to grow long so that
he could brush it back right
across his head, thus increasing
the bulkiness of the latter. His
teeth were large, strong, well
preserved, but thickly stained
bv pipe-tobacco. A large
head and body, a bulky
face; and yet there was a
subtle, soft wistfulness about his
appearance, where the spirit
shone through the slightly gross
flesh. He moved heavily, yet
softly, as some of the large
carnivora do, but without ,any
of their sudden spurts ; and he
seemed to sag a little at the
knees as he threw his weight
forward on to his toes. It was
as if some invisible force were,
pushing the unwilling flesh
along.
It would be easy to weave
a metaphysical legend about
that. But I realised later how
utterly wrong such a legend
would be. For one day in the
A.I.F. camp at Liverpool I
noticed a man with exactly the
same walk, who looked for
all the world like a less bulky
Brennan. I was so struck by
this that I asked him what his
name was. He was Chris’s
younger brother, Philip; The
Chant of Doom was dedicated
to him. And so I realised that
that strange gait was purely a
matter of heredity; I have
often noticed that brothers are
apt to walk exactly alike, even
when they do not otherwise
resemble each other.
Chris Brennan’s eyes were
rather prominent (his sight was
perfect); and that, combined
with the malicious gleam that
was often in them, easily gave
the impression that they were
“bold,” in the popular sense
of that adjective. Again, it was
only physical heredity, for
Philip Brennan had the same
eyes, except that the gleam in
them was humorous rather than
ironical.
A/fv friendship with Philip
A made me reflect further
on the question of heredity,
which may have some impor-
tance for the charting of Chris’s
inner world.
A clerk by profession, Philip
had no pretensions to scholar-
ship. But he was an assiduous
reader, with a retentive
memory; and his tastes in
literature were unusual. He
could quote hundreds of lines
from Tom Hood’s humorous
poems, for example, and greatly
admired the work of Hilaire
Belloc. When we were on our
way to the war he had several
of Belloc's books with him on
the transport.
Further, when. I agreed to
give him and two or three
others some lessons in French
during the many leisure hours
that we had on board he was
not only the most intelligent
but also the most enthusiastic
member of the group. In all
this there was a distinct resdm-
blance to his brother,
Christopher. On the other
hand, whereas Chris had lost
his faith, Philip was a devout
Catholic and a very sober, self-
disciplined man.
Putting all these things to-
gether, I cannot help feeling
that a large measure, of Chris
Brennan's nostalgic unhappi-
ness came from the fact that he
had retained one part of his
psychological heredity, namely
the cleverness that was in the
family, and had lost the other
part: self-discipline, estab-
lished belief, all that Goethe
sums-up in one short pbrasc,
des Lebens ernstes Fiihren.
In his poetry, Brennan has
expressed this in a symbolic
form which can be misleading.
His lost “Eden” is largely an
idealised picture of the simple
happiness that he knew as a
boy; a memory of what he
calls in one of his earliest poems
the “pleasant harborage of
faith.” '
In other words, he was
searching, as we all do” more
or less, for his lost youth. Only,
his search was more painful,
less episodic, than ours ; it was
his chief preoccupation, and
his nostalgia was intensified by
his scholarship. The transient
glory that once was Greece ;
the idealism of the German
Romantics ; the unattainable
perfection that haunted
Mallarme: these and many
other vistas discovered by his
erudition lifted his Jonging to
the heights of poetry. And in
the end, when his life had been
wrecked, he turned his steps
back towards a simpler Eden,
and embraced once more the
religion of his childhood.
But let us come back to
** some semblance of a
chronological order. After that
first real meeting at Mosman
I saw Brennan at infrequent
intervals until I went into
camp towards the end of 1915 ;
and listened to him with a new
interest, now that I had had a
deeper glimpse into his mind.
He swept me off my feet
once and for all with the series
of lectures that he gave (in
German) on German Roman-
ticism at the Modern Language
Congress held at the University
early in 1915. At that con-
gress 1 learned also how moody
he could be. A German, to
whom I was talking at the door
of the class-room where one
of these lectures was presently
to be given, was anxious to
meet Brennan. When the latter
arrived 1 introduced him. The
German said “Es freut midi
sehr,” and went on to explain
what an honor and privilege it
was to meet him. But Brennan
did not even hear him. After
murmuring a polite, “Es freut
midi auch,” he stood there in
a dream, and presently walked
away, speaking to no one else,
and stood at the lecture-desk,
staring into space.
Our last. meeting before I
embarked for the war was
very different from that gloomy
encounter.
Philip Brennan,' as we were
both sailing on the same trans-
port, asked me to spend the
evening at his home in North
Sydney just before we were due
(Continued on page 56)


Jears for
Caesar
By HAL PORTER
Driving through rain to
the boring club before
the more boring legal
dinner, Sir Rodney
Angus, Chief Justice, dropped
in at Sandy Bay on his judge’s
associate’s wife, Mrs. Fuller,
and lied.
Gently charming, to avoid-
pronouncing death, he said that
Lady Angus might be late:
Caesar, her favorite peacock,
was sick. It was possible thus
to dupe Mrs. Fuller, an ardent
social-climber. Lady Angus
had actually said, “Gymkhana
committee or not, I can’t face
it. Apologise, Rod. Oh, Caesar
lambie, don’t croak so.” In
love with peacocks, she coun-
tenanced using one’s sickness
to skirt a dinner she had been
chivied towards.
Mrs. Fuller sensed the
guillotine-blade, was almost
aware that what had seemed
graspable was now not so
nearly, but her ear was too
unequipped to catch, behind
Sir Rodney’s tarradiddle, the
crash of a blade already fallen.
Hired waiter, White Heather
whisky, furniture arrested in
welcoming pattern on all
these rain seemed to fall
withindoors, uncharitably and
cheapening; thought-out pools
of lamplight paled to tints of
stale confectionery ; bowls of
hellebore looked leaning like
old sheds.
She compelled her relent-
lessly delicate features 1 to
remain so; checked, in a fool’s
calm, things already fearfully
rechecked. This self-chloro-
forming, aided by two powerful
Martinis, let her suppose
safety: she telephoned Lady
Angus a second after Cresar,
swathed in an Afghan by the
drawing-room fire, had ceased
hideously hiccupping and died.
About to weep and keen,
Lady Angus, nagged by Mrs.
Fuller’s importunity as by an
arc-light smack in conjunc-
tivitis, ended a series of former
gracious overlookings by
curtness and killing apology,
and rang-off to tremble with
fury. The dinner-party pro-
ceeded faultlessly to failure
without Lady Angus or Fuller.
Leon Fuller, who had
prayed, for his wife's sake and
peace, that the thing would go
off smoothly as a hanging, was
vilified —as though he were the
defaulting bird—-in such scald-
ing undertones that, self-
righteous, he indicted her for
holding anxiety like a knife at
Lady Angus’s throat. Then he
rushed out of the back-door.
Returning abated, 10 minutes
later, he heard his wife’s voice,
glass-clear and iceberg-high:
“Milly Angus'll be late ; her
peacock’s in agony and she's
distraught Sir . Rodney’s at
some- ghastly dinner, so she
rang Leon. He’ll bring her
later. Soda? Water?”
Admiringly appalled at her
criminal poise, he left again,
tiptoed the car out and, to
Hobart, which* had an 1840
squalor as always when rain
uselessly laved the scabs of
old sorrows. Mr. Hydes, sidled
across alley-mouths and into
mews. Half -a - dozen stiff
drinks, chucked like petrol on
vexation, decided him to be
hungry, to visit Cosima’s.
’This cafe, run by a Viennese
Jewess, was counterfeit-
cosy : stuffiness concealed by
coffee-odors, camera-smallness
by looking-glasses which
multiplied black lampshades
lined with dark-room red,
jerry-built fittings by low-watt
globes, small 'serves by large
prices.
Cosima, a passee Boden-
weiser dancer, aware of her
foreignness, expected this to cut
both ways ... the pre-Nazi-
annexation trinkets chimed at
her wrists, “Pity the demise of
a culture, of civilisation itself!”
and “Admire my escape, my
stoic and acquisitive regenera-
tion!”
She left the corner-table
where she was smoking
Sobranie cigarettes and gaily
talking, or acting gaily talking,
with a young woman. She
advanced with European
coquetry to Leon’s table, with
traffic - light involuntariness
switching from female to
feminine. It was a coarsely
mild joke of his set that Cosima
coveted him. Aware that her
fondness was more intense
even than teasing implied, he
had been masculinely gratified.
English blushes fled into his
blond hair each time he met
her.
Tonight, no blush, no grati-
fication. His irritated inner
eye picked up her slipshoddi-
ness, her artful and incontinent
lips archly intensifying her
accent. Seen close and undi-
luted she was more disillusion-
ing than one’s first duchess.
Vouchsafing no more than
monosyllables and eyelids, he
toyed with a Wiener Schnitzel
that all Cosima’s yearning
desire made no hotter, larger,
more tender'or cheaper. So
patently was he disinterested
inin the Morse of her eyes
that she learned she repelled
him. Several unreal monosylla-
bic laughs and he was gone.
Meantime, Margaret Edward,
the young woman Cosima had
deserted, waited at the corner-
table tranquilly and tolerantly
as one can wait whp is vain
enough to believe the torn con-
versation Will be invisibly
mended on her behalf, the
affected dream dreamed on
from the point of interruption.
But the Cosima who returned
to Margaret was impaired as
an entertainer, .her fascination
defaced. Time had hissed
truths too quickly into her ear.
Her face was older, riper, veno-
mous.
“I am so -tired,” she said,
not reseating herself at Mar-
garet’s table.
“Oh, Cosima, dear, I am
sorry. Would you like to . . .”
“I like nothing.”
“Oh. A ... a cigarette?”
“No cigarette. I am so tired
for smoking. So tired for
talking.” She began to mooch
across the camera-screen of
her own self-pity, shrugging
Jewishly. “For gay talking I
{Continued on page 41)


Playford's Lifelines
If, as seems likely, the conference held
early this month in Canberra to dis-
cuss “proposals to overcome the
South Australian Government’s objec-
tions to the Snowy Mountains Agree-
ment” results in S.A. being given - the
guarantees it has been seeking from the
Federal Government and the Govern-
ments of N. S. Wales and Victoria it will
mark just one more achievement to the
y credit of the pertinacity of Tom Playford.
It isn’t that South Australia objects to
the Snowy Mountains Scheme in its
entirety. But it has all along considered.
that the Federal Government had no right
to enter into binding agreements with
the other two States without conceding
it, as a party to the Murray Waters
Agreement, a say.
This is a viewpoint Playford has con-
sistently maintained, though the other
three parties have never conceded it. A
month ago he told the S.A. Parliament
that he had conferred with the other
Premiers five times without getting satis-
faction and that his Government had
issued a writ in the High Court “to
restrain the Commonwealth Government
from carrying out certain works that we
believe to be unlawful, and asked for a
declaration of our rights on an interpre-
tation of what comprises River Murray
waters.” Another conference was to be
held about July 1 at which either finality
would be reached or court action would
be proceeded with.
The Murray Waters Agreement, signed
In the long ago by representatives of
the three riparian States and the Com-
monwealth, covers the use of the waters
of the Murray and of all its tributaries,
including the Murrumbidgee and the
Darling. It provides a~minimum quota
which must be made available to S.A.
and also that “the flow of the Murray
at Albury” is to be shared equally by
N.S.W. and Victoria “subject to any
quantity agreed to be sent down the river
for riparian use and for supply to S.A.”
There is a further provision that, after
the utilisation by the three States of
quantities agreed to, “a further volume
may be allotted out of any surplus over
the specified allotments to the State of
N.S.W., Victoria or S.A., as the case may
be, such further volumes to be deter-
mined by the commission.”
What IS Murray Water?
A lthough the Snowy Mountains
Scheme was launched nearly 10 years
ago even the matter of reaching an agree-
ment between N. S. Wales and Victoria
was a long, argumentative business. The
original plan gave N.S.W. three-quarters
of the diverted Snowy water and Vic-
toria only one-quarter. Last year Vic-
torian Premier Bolte managed to persuade
his neighbor to agree to a fifty-fifty split
—and that’s when Playford stopped talk-
ing in vague terms and began throwing
writs about.
At the time the Murray Waters agree-
ment was signed there was, of course, no
question of its including the Snowy
River., the waters of which were still bent
on hurling themselves frantically into the
Tasman Sea. Victoria and N. S. Wales
presumably maintain that Snowy Water
is still Snowy water no matter where it
is diverted. Playford, on the other hand,
holds that the Murray Waters agree-
ment covers all water that enters the
Murray or any of its tributaries, irrespec-
tive of whether the tributaries are of
natural origin or man-made.
The South Australian Premier’s con-
cern in this matter is not surprising. To
the States of Victoria and N. S. Wales
the water of the Murray and Murrum-
bidgee is of great value. It has made
possible the great fruitgrowing indus-
tries of Mildura and the Murrumbidgee
Irrigation Area. These, and other areas,
will benefit from the Snowy diversion, and
secondary-industry in the two States will
share the hydroelectric power generated
under the scheme. But to South Aus-
tralia Murray water is not merely valuable
for irrigation ; it is vital to a degree never
envisaged when the agreement was first
signed— not merely for irrigation, but as
an essential part of the State’s water-
supply.
Whyalla and Woomera
Tt was the Morgan-Whyalla pipeline
-•-conveying Murray water around the
head of Spencer Gulf that made possible
the establishment of shipbuilding yards
and a blast-furnace at Whyalla ; a branch-
line supplies Woomera rocket-range, one
of the driest parts of the State. Although
the main function of the pipeline is to
supply Whyalla, it has also been of great
benefit to other areas through which it
passes—during the dry months at the
beginning of this year considerable
quantities of Murray water were pumped
through the pipeline to supply the Lower
North, Middle North and Yorke
Peninsula.
Murray water has also been called-on
to augment the water-supply of Adelaide ;
a pipeline tapping the river at Mannum
is tied into the metropolitan reticulation
system. This is now an integral part of
Adelaide's water-supply. Its capacity
exceeds that of all the existing reservoirs
in the metropolitan system, and the South
Australian capital would have been in a
grim fix during last year’s drought but
for its contribution ; from February, 1957,
until May of this year water was pumped
through the pipeline. New reservoirs are
being built near Adelaide, and the capa-
city of existing storages is being increased,
but the city’s thirst is growing even more
rapidly than its population as new
industries make greater demands on its
water-supply. Additional contributors to
this increased demand will be the large
plant to be erected by General Motors-
Holden’s at the satellite town Elizabeth
and the planned Vacuum Oil refinery at
Hallett’s Cove, 20 miles south of Adelaide.
The refinery may be expected to attract
to its vicinity several supplementary
industries, and a large new town is
planned to house the big work-force
needed.
Reverting to the Whyalla pipeline—
the question of duplicating this project
is already under consideration. S.A.’s
long campaign to persuade the Broken
Hill Proprietary Company to erect a
steelworks at Whyalla seems at last to be
getting somewhere. B.H.P. plans to spend
£3O million on extensions to its blast-
furnace capacity and the construction of
a steelmaking plant, rolling-mills and
associated works. In addition, the ship-
building yards at Whyalla are to be
extended to cope with the job of building
a 32,000-ton tanker for Ampol Petroleum,
with a possibility of even bigger orders
to follow. Asked whether the Morgan-
Whyalla pipeline would be able to cope
with these extra demands, Playford said
the steel-industry would require “slightly
under 1000-million gallons a year.” With
the pumps working all the time to full
capacity the main could “just meet
requirements of the steel-industry and
the town which will grow with it.” He
had no doubt that duplication of at least
portion of the main would soon be neces-
sary, in which case he felt there should
be an_ entirely different route “so that
the benefit will be spread to as many
people as possible.” _
“Barely Enough”
At the opening of the S.A. Parliament
on June 17 the Lieut.-Governor of
S.A. (Sir Mellis Napier), referring to the
then pending conference on the subject
of the Snowy waters, said: “The future
development of South Australia is depend-
ent on the maintenance of our right to an
adequate share of. the waters of the
Murray. Even in the past season, when
no period of restriction was declared,
there was barely enough water to meet
the needs of consumers and at .the same
time avoid excessive salinity in the river.”
When the Snowy Mountains ~ Hydro-
electric Power Bill was before the Federal
Parliament in May the Prime Minister
stated that S.A.’s rights were fully pro-
tected ; an amendment to the bill,
inserted in the Senate, provided that
nothing in it could be taken as affecting
the rights of S.A. under the Murray
Waters Agreement. He also produced a
document signed by the Victorian
Premier, the N. S. Wales Deputy Premier
and himself agreeing that any diversions
above Albury should be regarded as
diversions by the State.” These conces-
sions go a long way towards what Play-
ford has been seeking, but apparently he
feels they do not adequately answer the
question whether Snowy water when
diverted becomes Murray water.


start the day right!
§:/> ;•*%.
ott*G
Vl*?
IM
fiHf
«eM2
c
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Doomben
Queensland’s Book Link
broke the sequence of wins by
visiting horses in the B.A.T.C.’s
£lO,OOO Doomben Cup, with
Baystone (from Sydney)
second and topweight and
favorite Sailor’s Guide (MeL
bourne) third. George Moore
(heading now for a riding en-
gagement in France) had the
winning mount; his third
Doomben Cup success, the
others being Rio Fe (1949) and
French Echo (1953). Book
Link is raced by Mrs. Fred
Best, wife of Brisbane’s lead-
ing trained.
•** * /
Imported sire Persian Book,
who won two races at seven
furlongs and one at a mile in
England, added to his splendid
stud success with Book Link’s
win. Persian Book has in
his progeny at least 36 indi-
vidual winners with many races
to their credit. Best of them
have been Prince Darius and
Book Link. Prince Darius, now
being prepared for a busy
spring campaign, won the
A.J.C. Fernhill Handicap and
Craven Plate and Tattersall’s
Chelmsford Stakes, and was
runner-up in the two Derbys
and the Melbourne Cup, to say
nothing of his great finish that
narrowly missed the Queen
Elizabeth Stakes at Fleming-
ton.
• • • •
Book Link was a bargain-
buy at the Randwick yearling-
sales in 1955. On his breeding-
lines he should stay any dis-
tance, but a mile-and-a-|half
seems his best, and he could
be an ideal type for the Caul-
field Cup. Breeding-lines: by
Persian Book (imp.) from
Honey Dew 'by Christopher
Robin (imp.) from Brunette
by Magpie (imp.) from Win-
some Queen (sister to Artillery-
man, 1919 Melbourne Cup)
and Folly Queen (1919 V.R.C.
Oaks) by Comedy King (1910
Melbourne Cup) from Cross
Battery by Stepniak. Valicare
also figures in the bloodlines,
as does Friendly Feeling (third
in Carioca’s Sydney Cup).
Flemington
The Grand National Steeple-
chase at Flemington last
Saturday produced two stories
worth telling: The story of a
“has-been” who came back to
win one of the toughest races
on the Victorian calendar, and
the story of a mare who was
as great in defeat as she was
in her many victories.
Redfield, rising 10, careered
away in the straight to win
the National by six lengths
from Penang, with Pedro’s
Pride half-a-lerigth further
back. It was Redfield’s first
outright win since he took
the Grand National Hurdle
with 10.13 in 1956.
Following that win Red-
field’s form fell away, until he
was retired. Brought back to
steeplechasing this season he
has-raced with the zest of a
youngster. A month ago he
“All lions are harmless and happy on a full stomach”
dead-heated with Penang in
the Royal Steeplechase at
Flemington, and his National
win was his only start since.
By sire'of stayers Enfield,
Redfield is from Sequoia and
is a half-brother to 1945 Mel-
bourne Cup winner Rainbird.
His time (6.7, on a heavy track)
compared well with Victory
March’s record, 6.2. Redfield’s
trainer, Harry Myers, has been
in the game a long time —he
won the G.N. Steeple back in
1927 with Nyangay.
••• . •
All honors of This year’s
G.N. Steeple—except the vic-
tor’s —went to Pedro’s Pride.
Forced by lack of a pacemaker
to carry her 12.7 out in front,
the mighty mare was hampered
for more than two miles by
two riderless horses. Only the
skill of Brian Smith and the
mare’s own nimbleness kept her
on her feet. Despite all this,
she gave her best for every yard
of the race, and was coming
again on the line.
• • • •
Noble Law’s fatal spill in
the Footscray Steeple meant
the loss of a dashing type of
jumper who had lent a lot of
color to steeplechasing in Vic-
toria over the past few years.
From 83 starts he won 18 times
and earned £7896 stake-money.
In the last three jumping
seasons he has always been
burdened with 12st. or more.
The Footscray Steeple was
notable for the thrilling finish.
From the last jump to the line
three horses—Bright Lu, Ball
Nib and Prince Corrie —raced
stride for stride, finishing in
that order only half-heads
apart. Bright Lu’s win com-
pleted a happy day for owner
W. Ryan and trainer Harry
Myers, who shared Redfield’s
National success. There should
be a good future ahead of the
five-year-old Sirius mare, who
is comparatively new to the
jumping business. National
honors might not be beyond
her.
• • • •
National Hurdle winner Re-
sotto was given a stiff increase
of 131 b. for the Doutta Galla
Hurdle last Saturday, but the
horses that couldn’t get near
him in the three-mile National
had much less chance over
miles, and the five-year-old
Ottoman gelding gave a spec-
tacular display of jumping to
win by 12 lengths.
Twice in the last decade the
Lawn Handicap has had a 200-
to-1 winner—Rhodes, in 1951,
and last Saturday Declaree
astonishing by finishing bril-
liantly to defeat a useful
winter-class field. A three-year-
old gelding by the English horse
Atout Maitre from Arch De-
sign, Declaree had been finish-
ing a long way back in country
improvers’ events. Atout
Maitre, a very good performer
in England during the war
years, has been represented by
winners in 13 countries.
An interesting placegetter in
the Lawn Handicap was the
English five-year-old horse
Damocles. A winner in Eng-
land, he has been lightly raced
here as yet. Probably he has
only just become acclimatised,
and could prove a first-class
sprinter.
Adelaide solicitor and former
Carlton (Vic.) footballer Ray
Brew had luck on his side
when he gave only 300gns. for
Pushover. For him the mare
has won 16 races, among them
two w.-f.-a. events, an Adelaide
Cup, an Australian Cup, and a
Bagot Handicap, to earn
£20,700 stake-money. How
rising nine, she is racing as well
as ever, and has scored twice
at the V.R.C.’s Grand National
meeting. She carried 9.5 to
win last Saturday’s Winter
Handicap with plenty in hand.
Brew has Pushover for sale,
with one important contingency
—he will not allow any other
owner to race her, but is will-
ing to sell her for the siud ;
and along with her own good
record goes a strong trace of
Carbine blood.
••• . •
Horses from the Riverina and
Albury district have won more
than their share of Melbourne
races lately, and on Saturday
the little-known Overproof
added to the list. At his first
start in Melbourne, Overproof
showed fine stamina to lead
from end to end in the 10-
furlongs Byerley Handicap. It’s
a long way from, a winter


handicap to a Derby, but, after
the Byerley, owners G. R.
Lempriere and D. Carnegie
(associates in the wool-business
as well as in racing) expressed
hopes that the Atout Maitre
colt would be a classic winner.
• • • •
A year or two hence it’s
likely that Comic Court stock
will be prominent in the most
important handicaps in the
land. Meantime, although he
finished only third in the First
Granville Handicap (a mile
race for three-year-olds), the
Comic Court-Gazela gelding
Gurney put the writing on the
wall for an early win. Leader
until well into the straight.
Gurney, ridden more patiently,
would have been hard to beat.
The winner, Conamara, gave a
first city success to jockey Brian
McDonald, who has ridden
some 150 winners on country
tracks.
« « • •
Canterbury
Big - striding two - year - old
Leukos, who hadn’t had a race-
start until last. Saturday, when
he surprised most Canterbury
Park customers by winning the
Second Two-year-old Handi-
cap in excellent style, is trained
at Randwick by Terry Brosnan,
son of Tim Brosnan, of Lough
Neagh fame. Leukos had won
a barrier-trial at Randwick
about a week earlier, but his
lack of race-experience nearly
cost him the race—he lost
ground at the start and had to
make up a lot. He has a wind
infirmity, but he “whistled”
past .the post all right. He’s
by Damnos (Fr.) from Light-
some by Helios (imp.), and he’s
a promising type. His dam,
who won in two-year-old com-
pany at Randwick, is a half-
sister to Felstorm, smart two-
year-old winner on Melbourne
tracks.
Rosebery trainer Bob Stuart
continued his winning way with
tw'o-year-olds when his best
sprinter, Prince Kerdieil, won
his fifth race (the First Two-
year-old Handicap at Canter-
bury), . carrying top-weight
and ridden confidently by
apprentice: R. Greenwood,
who has had three rides on
the High Caste colt for as
many wins. He narrowly de-
feated favorite Tapu, with out-
sider Edspell third. Three of
Prince Kerdieil’s five wins
have been at Canterbury and
one each at Hawkesbury and
at Randwick. Next engage-
ment may be in the £l5OO
Hobartville Stakes over seven
furlongs at Warwick Farm on
August 23. Owner W. H.
Duffy also has a yearling
brother to his useful winner.
For Saturday’s Canterbury
Park Flying Handicap Rose-
hill trainer Tom Kennedy
saddled-up the winner, High
Spot, and unplaced Chieti and
Cuirassier. He gave High
Spot and Chieti a good show,
but punters picked the right
one (favored by No. 1 draw, an
advantage to a smart beginner
at Canterbury), and backed
him from 7 to 1 to fours.
They had Ray Selkrig to thank
for the win. He jumped the
gelding out first and soon had
the field following him at vary-
ing distances. In the final
half-furlong-High Spot stopped
quickly, but Selkrig kept him
going for a short-half-head
win. Chieti ran on strongly
in fourth place, and should
soon win.
Darby Munro is now enjoy-
ing a deserved run of success
as a No. 1 trainer; another
win was added to his team’s
list when El Rocco won the
Campsie Stakes. The winner
was ridden by stable appren-
tice W. Dickson, a 15-year-old
having his third ride in a race ;
the youngster handled his
mount with skill and wasn’t
ruffled at any stage.
Turkestan (soon now a
four - year - old) performed
rather poorly at Saturday’s
Canterbury meeting, but he
could perhaps show improved
form on a bigger track
(Canterbury doesn’t suit all
horses). Turkestan gave pro-
mise last spring, when he won
a Rosehill Cup. Laustream,
who easily won the race in
which Turkestan was an also-
ran, is trained at Rosebery, and
his track-times would compare
favorably with most of the
gallopers there.
With a series of wins at
Wagga (N.S.W:) and there-
abouts to his credit Remsium
looked to have excellent pros-
pects in the Second Ashbury
Stakes-at Canterbury, and duly
won. He was among the tail-
enders in the early part, but
came with a brilliant run on
the outside to beat the favorite,
Demash, who had every
chance. Remsium is a four-
year-old gelding by Elysium
(imp.) from Remberry by
Double Remove (imp.).
Though Braemar started at
25 to 1 in the Canterbury Park
Graduation Stakes on June 21
(won by Dail Eireann) and
finished in the middle of the
field, he improved with track-
galloping and went to the post
favorite, for an easy win in the
Maiden Handicap at the same
track’s Wednesday meeting last
week. He certainly looked the
pick of the field on appearance,
was probably the best-bred in
the line-up, and also the most
costly as a yearling—sold at
the N.Z. auction in 1956 for
3000gns. He’s a gelded half-
brother to The Wash, winner of'
the Q.T.C. Derby and St. Leger
and the Brisbane Cup. Brae-
mar is by Balloch (imp.) from
Cardoness by Foxbridge (imp.).
Session—best three-year-old
of her year (1940), when her
wins included the V.R.C. Oaks
and .the A.J.C. Adrian Knox
Slakes—is dam of Woolsack,
winner of the First Two-year-
old Maiden at the Canterbury
midweek meeting. A gelding,
he’s yet another of the winning
progeny of Judicate (imp.).
Session is by Marconigram
(imp.) from Manumit (imp.)
by Manna. Owner L. G. Gib-
son also races Streamster,
runner-up to Woolsack.
F- +
‘Rules Carnival
The centenary carnival, com-
pleted last Saturday in Mel-
bourne, was, as everyone
tipped, easily won by the
V.F.L. On the Saturday before
last it cleaned - up S.A.
23.17-7.7; on Monday night
(July 7) it coasted in against the
V.F.A. by 49 points, 13,2-3-7.10;
and last Wednesday night it wal-
loped an injury-weakened Tasmania
25.14-8.14. Against W.A. last Satur-
day, however, it only just got
there, 14.13-11.12, after the West
had played really good, vigorous
football.
Actually most of the games, in
both A and B sections, were one-
sided afiArs. W.A. and S.A., for
instance, both trounced the V.F.A.
Closest game in A division was
Tasmania's two-point defeat of
S.A. (11.18 - 11.16). Australian
Amateurs won B section, easily
defeating the three other teams,
Canberra, Queensland and N.S.W.
The Tassie medal, for best and
fairest at the carnival, was won by
the brilliant V.F.L. rover Alan
Aylett, on a count-back from Ted
Whitten.
While the carnival proceeded, the
annual barney raged in the Mel-
bourne papeis as to the value or
otherwise—in the main, the verdict
was “otherwise”—of carnival and
inter-State games. V.F.L. foot-
ballers themselves are still mighty
proud to- vyin their Victorian
guernsey, but Melbourne football-
followers have shown clearly
enough that they don't like inter-
ruptions to the club programme.
Some adaptations to inter-Staie
and carnival games seem certain in
the near future; but it surely
would not be in the best interests
o f the code if all inter-State com-
petition were eliminated.
“Atala”: South Australian
captain Fos Williams and Tas-
manian and former Carlton
winger Arthur Hodgson were
each playing in their fifth
carnival. They thus equal the
. record of Westralia's W. J.
(“Nipper”) Truscott, who led
the W.A. team which won the
1921 carnival. Hodgson has
represented Tasmania four
times, and Victoria at his other
(1950) appearance.
* • « •
“Bicky”: “Blocker” (B.
2/7/’SS) was- off the mark:
Under Melbourne (V.F.L.)
coach Norm Smith’s guidance
the Demons have won three
consecutive premierships, not
two, and are on the way to
their fourth —which, if they win
it, would equal Collingwood’s
1927-28-29-30 record. Inci-
dentally, Smith was also the
coach of the highly successful
V.F.L. carnival side,
“Leg-peg”: Former Davis
Cup player Ken McGregor was
chosen for the South Aust.
team in the Australian Rules
championship carnival in Mel-
bourne, and has been one of
S.A.’s best. Gil Langley and
Vic Richardson, represented
S.A. in Aussie Rules and Aus-
tralia in cricket. My notion is
that McGregor is the first Aus-
tralian tennis rep. to be
* selected for his State in the
big football brawl.
* * *
At Sydney Sportsground, in
a willing but rather ragged
game of Rugby Union, City I
beat Country I 16-6, after
leading 10-3 at half-time. Country
had gone south last week, to defeat
Victoria 27-12 on the Sunday and
Victorian Combined Services 66-0
on the Tuesday, and had then been
training together in camp at Narra-
been; and it was very confident.
But it didn't play up to its own
expectations.
Ten minutes before half-time
Count) y led 3-0 (a penalty by
Burke) and could have been fur-
ther ahead if Stanbrook had- had
a little more luck in-a couple of
long-distance penalty-kicks. Then
City crossed twice before lemons;
and the result was never in doubt
alter half-time.
The City backs just shaded
Country's, but City had clear
supremacy in- the forwards, where
it won the match. City won much
greater share of the ball from
scrums, iirie-outs and rucks..
Country’s sole try was the best
of the game. Coming halfway
through the second half, 10 or 12
players handled in a movement right
up the field, with Stanbrook, Curley
and skipper Harvey playing
prominent parts before front-rower
White went over. Country should
have scored at least one other try
when, in a good backline movement
from the scrum-base in the first
half, lock-forward Fenwicke and full-
back Curley joined in to give two
extra men, but the City backs’
strong defence held it out. Only
two of Saturday’s Country players,
both backs, Curley and Lenehan
(.shifted to lock), are in N.S.W.’B


Missing Friend
RlNOLE.—'Would JACK SEABOUfINE
BINOLE, or any person knowing his
present whereabouts, please contact the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE. t!> O’Connell Street.
Sydney, N.S.W., re Estate CHARLES
SEABOERSE BINGLEV
NOTHING EQUALS'
WARMRAY'S AMAZING EFFICIENCY! a
•TRAM MARK BEGO
• TRIPLE PURPOSE
• SLOW COMBUSTION
• AIR CONDITIONING
HOME HEATER
NEW MODEL
has over 7,000 cu. ft.
heating capacity,
equipped with a non-
jamming shaker
grate.
• BURNS ANY SOUD
FUEL AND NEED
NEVER GO OUT.
* Beautifully enamelled
on solid cast iron, Model
H.D. introduces a new mottled
CERAMIC GREY, a matching tint for the
contemporary or traditional home.
HAWAIIAN CREAM is also available.
Owing to Fuel saving the "Warmray" ACTUALLY COSTS
Reduces fuel bill at least 75 per cent.
■
<■& - 'lk
: :
Wj w *Xft'"" i “*">•'■ >X s -JwlK??
HI
.■» -
SS;g
'*? r
Installs in rooms'
with or without
fireplaces.
Model No. 3
Super De Luxe
★ Large capacity
—Over 10,000
cn. ft.
★ Special large
firebox for
long burning
without atten-
tion.
★ Extra large
hotplate for
cooking.
The secret of Warmray's efficiency is the
patented Heating Tubes (illustrated) which
are built into the firebox. The air in the
room passes through these tubes continu-
ously, thus maintaining an even, overall
warmth.
WORLD PATENTED
HEATING TUBES MAKE
THIS THE MOST
ECONOMICAL AND
BEST ROOM HEATER OF
THEM ALL, REGARDLESS
OF PRICE
WARMRAY
HEATING TUBES
★ BEWARE OF IMITATIONS
Imitated ? ? Often!!
Equalled?? Never!!
Sold by Stores, Builders’ Suppliers and
Hardware Merchants everywhere.
WARMRAY PTY. LTD.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Telegrams: “Warmray,” BL 2217.
If unobtainable locally, ’phone, write or call
for illustrated brochure and name of nearest
agents. j/|OM
No. 1 team to meet Queensland on
Saturday.
In another willing and more one-
sided game City II beat Country
II 20-3. There is a similarity in the
scores of the two games this year
and last —last year City l beat
Country I 17-9, and City II beat
Country II 25-3.
• • • •
“Veryl”: Gordon (Sydney)
second-grade half-back Adrian
Smith was selected for City II
against Country II on Satur-
day ; “North Harbor” selectors
had earlier indicated that they
considered him “North’s”
second-best half after Gordon
and Wallaby player Don
Logan. Now Smith has been
picked in N.S.W.’s first XV
to play Queensland on Satur-
day, with Logan in N.S.W.'s
second team. Similar cases have
been known before. At the start
of his career Rugby League
Test-centre Harry Wells was
picked as a reserve for N.S.W.
while his club selectors con-
sidered him worth a place only
in South Sydney seconds. If I
remember right, a Rugby
Union winger named Merrett
in the 'thirties was chosen for
N.S.W. from Manly seconds.
# * *
In Sydney's round of Rugby
League, St. George, now right
out in front at the top of the
table, beat East 9-6 —though
East scored two tries to one,
and was unlucky to lose. North
walloped weak South 29-11,
Newtown beat Manly 17-9,
West just managed improving
Canterbury 14-12, and Balmain
was far too Tigerish for Parra-
matta 34-10... .This .Saturday,
at the S.C.G., it’s the third and
deciding Test with England.
* *
On Friday the sixth British
Empire Games officially get
going in Cardiff, with the
promise of great athletic deeds.
In the two post-war Games
Australia has won 34 gold-
medals (in 1950 at Auckland!
and 20 gold-medals (1954, Van-
couver), and could do even
better this time. Australia’s
athletes have already been
showing out, in meetings in
Ireland and in London. One
outstanding performance was
Sydney runner Albert Thomas s
new three-miles world-record
of 13min. 10.8 sec. in Dublin,
which broke Iharos’s 13min.
14.25ec., set in Vienna in
October, 1955.
* * *
In Brisbane the Claxton
Shield, symbol of inter-State
baseball supremacy, was won
this year by Victoria, which lost
only one of its six games, to
N.S.W. There was an “inci-
dent” when Victoria was play-
ing S.A., last years winner of
the Shield. The S.A. team
walked off for a time as a
protest against a decision of
the umpire, its official protest
being later dismissed.
* * *
In the third cricket Test at
Leeds last week England easily
defeated N.Z. by an innings
and 71 runs, even though the
first two days were washed out.
England has won, all of them
easily, the first three of the five
Tests —which is what was more-
or-less to be expected. The two
spin-bowling betes noires of
Austrajia in 1956, Laker and
Lock, have been doing most of
the damage.
* * *
“P ”: Could be that what's
wrong with tennis today isn't
just the Australian domination,
or even the Australian-
American domination (B.
9/7/’5B), but rather the players
who are doing the dominating.
Surely this year’s Wimbledon must
have been one of the most color-
less ever. It wasn't that nobody
crowned a linesman with a racquet,
murdered a ball-boy, heaved a jug
of water at an opponent, arrived
10 minutes late for a match Royalty
was to watch or threatened an inter-
national incident. It is just that
the players are as colorless as a
glass of water.
Anyone reasonably interested in
tennis could correctly label a gal-
lery of pictures of, say, Vines,
Budge, Perry, Crawford and others
of that vintage. Younger Austra-
lian followers wouldn’t have any
tiouble nominating pictures of
Bromwich, Quist, Brown, Sidwell,
Sedgman, McGregor, Rosewall,
Hoad, Kramer, Schroeder, Trabert
and Seixas. But what would be
the outcome of a survey asking
a random harvest of Australians to
name correctly a gallery of the four
best players from Australia and
America today?
The present Australians, at any
rate, all seem to be fine young
chaps, all playing similarly fine,
machinelike tennis. They could all
have come out of one mould. It
is just that they don't seem to
excite.
• • • •
“Ex”: Mervyrt Rose must be
one of the unluckiest good
tennis-players ever. He has
always been among the top-
rankers, but never quite on top.
He was the up-and-coming
contemporary of Sedgman and
McGregor ; when they turned
professional, and he might
reasonably have expected to
take over —no ; there were two
young comets named Rosewall
and Hoad in the way. They
turned pro.—and now again
the temperamental, erratic, but
undoubtedly good, left-hander
is ploughing through the dust of
another bunch of top-line
youngsters.


THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WALES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 4387 ( 2 lines).
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Want*
To buy Miller No. 3 lamp or
flame-thrower for same. —6728.
To buy copy of J. V. Dyson’s
Astrophysics. —6729.
Information Sought
What is “the rising of the
court ?”
It is a sentence imposed by
courts of summary jurisdiction in
cases of trivial oliences. The con-
victed person is sentenced “to the
rising,” which means he is to be
detained in custody until the court
adjourns for lunch, or, if the sen-
tence is imposed in the afternoon,
till the end of the court’s day.
* * * *
What is the origin of the phrase
“the fourth' estate ?”
The conception of the “three
estates of the realm” (now usually
taken as being the lords spiritual,
the lords temporal and the
commons) as the great divisions of
legislative authority in England led
to the coining of the phrase “the
fourth estate” to indicate some
power in the Slate, distinct from
the three, but of corresponding
magnitude. The usage of it in
regard to the press stemmed from
a speech by Burke. Refer to
Carlyle’s Hero-Worship.
• * * *
Is it better to grow Christ mas-
bush from cuttings or seed?
It is possible to grow them from
cuttings, using last year’s wood
(pieces about 6in. long) set about
half their length in sandy soil at an
angle of 45 degrees. More certain
results may be obtained by using
seed (which should be round and
brown and well-dried) in sandy
loam which carries a fair propor-
tion of old leaf-mould and wood-
ashes. The seed should be watered
only enough to keep it moist until
it germinates.
• • * *
History of the adhesive postage-
stamp ?
A post-paid envelope was in
common use in Paris in the year
1653. In November, 1818, stamped
postal letter-paper was issued to
the public by the Government of
the Sardinian States and stamped
postal envelopes by the same
Government from 1820 to 1836.
In 1830 Charles Whiting, in Lon-
don, made, experimentally, stamped
wrappers for newspapers under the
name of “go-frees,” and four years
later a well-known publisher,
Charles Knight, ignorant of what
Whiting had already done, wrote
to the Chancellor of the Exchequer
recommending similar wrappers for
adoption. Rowland Hill, who is
regarded as the originator of the
postage-stamp, apparently got his
idea from this source. Meanwhile,
however, the adhesive stamp was
made experimentally, in 1834, by
James Chalmers. These were
printed from ordinary type and
were made adhesive by a wash of
gum. Chalmers made no public
mention of his stamp until Novem-
ber, 1837, but in February of that
year Rowland Hill brought the
adhesive stamp to the notice of
the commissioners of the post-office
inquiry, and as a result of his
efforts stamps were brought into
use in May, 1840.
* * * *
What are the duties and privi-
leges of the executor of a will ?
The duties, which commence
immediately on death, include
arranging burial of the testator,
collecting particulars of the estate,
obtaining probate of the will, giving
statutory notice to creditors to send
in their accounts, pay the debts and
legacies (within 12 months), pay
life-tenants such income as the
will directs, and file .administration
accounts. In practice the executor
is well advised to put the estate
in the hands of a solicitor. He
may claim payment for his services
(commission is up to 2 per cent,
of the gross estate, a slightly higher
rate on the estate’s income), and
he may, if he himself is a creditor,
pay himself first.
• • • •
What are normal systolic and
diastolic blood-pressures for a man
of 60, and would 80 and 125
respectively be considered too low ?
For various reasons, there is no
“normal blood-pressure” for a
man of 60; but 95 to 100 diastolic
and 160 systolic are a bit high.
The figures you give are not too
low in the absence of heart or
other constitutional disease.
* * * *
When does spring commence in
N. S. Wales, and how long does it
last ?
Astronomically seasons are deter-
mined by the position of the earth
in respect of the sun. For instance,
spring commences in Australia on
September 21-23, according to the
date on which the sun passes over
the Equator—the date varies
slightly from year to year, within
the limits stated. The other seasons
—summer, autumn and winter —
commence, of course, at three-
month intervals; for instance, fol-
lowing spring, summer commences
on December 21-23, and so on.
Meteorologically spring commences
on September 1, summer on
December 1, etc. Owing to the
considerable variations in weather
from year to year an exact date
of commencement has no particu-
lar significance. For convenience
of statistical comparison, however,
the N.S.W. Weather Bureau takes
complete months in all metero-
Jogical seasons and consequently
spring extends for its purposes
from September 1 to November 30,
the other seasons following at
intervals of three months.
• * * •
Who was Thomas the Rhymer?
He was the Scottish poet and
prophet Thomas Learmont, of
Ercildoune (1220-1297). He had a
reputation almost equal to Merlin’s,
and he foretold in the “Scotichro-
nicon” the death of Alexander.
Wyntoun asserts that he correctly
prophesied the result of the Battle
of Kilbane. He is mentioned in
the works of Barbour, Harry the
Minstrel and .Hector Boece. Refer
to Murray’s Romance and
Prophesies, Brandt’s Thomas of
Ercildoune, and Mumby’s Early
Scottish Prophesies.
Brief Answers
A.G. (Orbost, Vic.): Halley’s
Comet, last seen in 1910, will next
appear about 1986....F.L.: The
order of Commander of the Bath
does not automatically carry a
knighthood. The Army Gradation
List showing Major - Generals
Blarney and Jess as knights . was
correct; but they had higher awards
than C.B. at the time. Field-
Marshal Sir Thomas Blarney was
awarded the C.B. in 1919; he was
knighted in 1935, and gained the
K.C.B. in 1942. Lieut.-General Sir
Carl Jess got his C.B. in 1939, four
years after he was created knight.
While the general rule is that an
A. lieut.-colonel is entitled to
designate himself by that title in
civilian life if he is on the Reserve
of Officers, in practice an officer
of that rank, even if he is not
on the reserve, usually uses it
as a courtesy title... .W.F.E.:
Doubt whether it is available in
full detail; the chief point in Mao’s
1953 prophecies was for a vast
military plan for the Pacific....
B. : The children of first cousins
are second cousins to each other,
and the children of second cousins
are third cousins to each other;
the child of one’s first cousin is
strictly “first cousin once removed.”
. ...D.S.V.: According to the laws
of motion of heavenly bodies, any
object such as a planet, including
the earth, must move around the
sun in an orbit which is an ellipse.
A circle is only a particular case
of the ellipse, and there is no
reason why a particular orbit
should be circular rather than an
ellipse of another shape
P.F.: Sir Laurence Olivier was
born at Dorking, Surrey, on May
22, 1907; Vivien Leigh (Vivien
Mary Hartley) was born at Dar-
jeeling, India, on Nov. 5, 1913....
K.R.D.: The most northern star
of three forming “Orion’s Belt”
does rise due east and set due west
for an observer in either hemis-
phere .... H.J.: The characteristic
odor of cypress-pine is due to the
phenol callitral.... A.G.: Shellac
is made from the secretion of an
insect that lives on the genus Ficus,
cultivated in India... .M. 8.:
“G. B. Lancaster” was the pen-
name of Edith Joan Lyttleton....
J.L.: Information may be obtained
from the Registrar-General’s Dept.,
Sydney, upon payment of a small
search-fee D.V.Y.: The famous
amateur English cricket club
known as I Zingari (“The Wan-
derers”) was founded in 1845 by
Lorraine Baldwin and Sir Spenspr
Ponsonby-Fane. It does not play
in competitions.... S.C.: Killara
is a Victorian abo.-name meaning
“always there”... .D.J.: The lily-
ol-the-valley flowers used in bou-
quets are Convallaria majalis and
grow from rhizomes, the plants
attaining a height of only 6in.;
the tree lily-of-the-valley ( Clethra
arborea ) is an evergreen which
grows to a height of 10ft.
H.J.U.: Women were given
the right to vote at Federal elec-
tions by the Commonwealth
Franchise Bill of June, 1902.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
A 'ame and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions volumar. y
submitted; and no MS. will bs
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
.to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered )or publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
S.L.H.: All ballads, even the one
about Henry’s braces, fell down.
. ...T.N.: Tut 1.F.: “A
Cupper Tea” very weak... .M.L.:
Technique too flimsy N.K.C.:
Too wispy. You’d better send the
later ones....Jdck Bassett: Come
in and sing it here: —
. ...5.L.,: Well, you could say
you're having no luck, but if we
accepted one of those it’d be a
miracle... .G.S.B. : Your sporting
types would be at home in a
1904 bar-room .N.D.: Wept
ourselves out of tears for that
faithful hound 20 years ago.
Oh, my heart’s a-flume for a Western
dame
So I’ll build my little shaok-oh
Where the birds eat lime in the summer-
time
And the wild cats cry in the creek-beds
dry
And the sheep-dogs chew tobacco.
Though I’m not too bright as a socialite
(And my nature never changes)
I will be adored by the reptile horde
And I’ll feel at home where the dingoes
roam
On the rugged mountain ranges.
That’s the dear old West (as you might
have guessed).
Out beyond the stop-and-go lamps,
Where they settle strife with a carving-
knife
And the women swear with the greatest
ca re
And the men all shave with blow-lamps.
It’s a land of doubt, and of savage
drought
But there’s courage and endeavor.
It’s a land of smiles on the fertile
miles
And they shed no tears in the arid years
On the barren Never-Never.
There’s a lot of sand in that sunburnt
land
And there may be sin and sorrow
But I’ve set my eyes on the Western
skies.
Where the future glows like a desert
rose
In that country of Tomorrow.
There are copper seams by their coastal
streams
That are not inconsequential
There is wealth untold in the reefs of
gold
And there’s bauxite ore at their very
door
In that land of great- potential.
It’s a land of dreams, and the bravest
schemes
And they’ll see some blessings surely
With a hope re-born in a fairer dawn
When they find good oil in their native-
soil
On the plains around Kalgoorlic.


Estab'ishfd 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON sT
osw-uvajv .
: PTV LTD . fi
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL St COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
am tired. I am hating the rain. .
I am a working-woman, a
machine-woman, an animal of
burden no longer for talking
or female things. Gott /”
She grimaced like a monkey,
twitched viciously at the
kitchen - concealing curtain:
“Waitress, come —if you are
not minding too much your
employer— to clear Mr. Fuller’s
filthy table.” She did not face
Margaret again ; her eyes,
round as monkey’s, spiked the
flouncing waitress; without
turning she said, “I think you
will go home.”
TTad she done something she
knew she'd not done . . .?
Margaret was in the street be-
fore confusion clarified to
anger. Rude bitch! Common,
foreign bitch! How dared
she! A bitter sister, hitherto
tiny and supine, uncoiled like
a genie to occupy her wholly,
tautening her body, glazing her
eyes.
To this occupied creature
treading through the slobber
of rain that evoked a past like
morsels of unsavory eternity
slid the motor-car showily
tossing up wings of water.
“Hoi, Mag!” It was her
fiance, ruddy with 25-
year-old enthusiasm and grin-
ning like an Irish setter. “Hop
in. Cosima said you’d just left.
Nearly missed you.”
“So I see.” The bitter sister
spoke for her. Why should
she marry and not have even
a bed to call her own?
“Hop in,. Mag. I’ll whip
you alorfg to the school library:
that's why I came down. Just
finished sorting-out. There
are fifty-odd books you’ll
love ...” She was an archi-
vist. “. . . Two Breeches Bibles,
first editions of all the Gould
Bird Books with Franklin
bookplates . . .”
“Not tonight, Bryan.”
“Mag! Anything wrong?”
“Nothing.”
“Well, for Pete’s sake, hop in,
out of this rain.”
“No.” This dropped like a
shilling in a meter, and worked.
Rain occupied the pause with
indelicacies of gulping and
sucking.
“And what is the mat-ter this
time?” he said, arranging to be
very, very calm.
“Nothing’s the matter.”
“Look here, I’ll drive you
home and ...”
“No thank you.”
“Surely . . .”
“I said, ‘No,’ thank you.
I’m too tired to be driven
home. Or to the library. I
see books all day. I don't want
to see them all night. I’m a
working-woman and I do
expect ...”
Violently the car had gone ;
the marathon continued; the
snatched-up torch of anger
trained back an acrid smoke:
“All right, mad Margaret, all
right. Don’t squander your
neuroses on me!”
'T'he car slashed through the
night, reached the school,
swung in a hissing comma
under the elms. Prep, was just
out ; he could hear the boys
like a waterfall of boots pour-
ing downstairs for bedtime
cocoa.
He squelched across gravel
to the library to extinguish the
lights he had left lit above his
arranged offering: the table of
books displayed for Margaret
as his honeymoon lover’s body
might be, his salary and pros-
pects, his curtain - hanging
ability and ideals. Damp,
dampened, left with nothing
except frailties and blemishes,
temper battening to bonfire on
the rubbish of his nature, he
entered School House.
Upstairs, quickly and
savagely, he got into pyjagmas,
slippers and dressing-gown ; he
began to pace his study, sentry
to nothing but his own rage.
There was a tap at the door,
a boy’s tap, curling back, reces-
sive. The sentry did not
answer. A tap again, louder,
curling farther back on itself.
“Who’s there?” he shouted.
“Tolfer, sir.”
“What the devil do you
want?”
To his amazement the door
opened. Spectacles flashed.
His pentagonal, 12 - year -
old face glowing like a lamp
lit for his god, Tolfer proffered
a sheet of foolscap, his best
handwriting defacing it like a
miracle of love. His voice
chanted a psalm: “It’s the list,
sir, of all the special books,
sir. When I finished prep.,
sir, Mr. Fox let me go to the
library.” Tolfer smiled ; Tolfer
sang, capping wonder, “In
alpha-rabet-rical order, sir.”
“I didn’t tell you,” said the
god’s cruel voice, “to come in,
Tolfer.”
“I thought you said . . .”
“I merely said, ‘What do you
want?’ ”
“Sir, I thought . . .” The
lamp, out now, revealed itself
as grimy. There were blots on
the foolscap.
“You thought! Get to bed!
Get out!”
Co, there they were, twenty-
past-nine and a rainy night:
Lady Angus muttering, “Fool
of a female!” by the sherry-
decanter, Mrs. Fuller laughing
clearly as struck tin by an
arrangement of hellebores,
Leon Fuller glaring at “Tom
and Jerry” in a theatrette,
Cosima throwing money on the
sink-bench for the waitress she
had given notice to, Margaret
Edward jabbing a furious ball-
point across a page of her
diary, the schoolmaster walk-
ing the floor with the sleepless
baby of anger behind the door
Tolfer had closed as quietly
as one closes a wonderful book
Life will never let one read
again.
For Tolfer alone would this
night be a memory, only for
him was it already as real as
one.
Cassar, finished with flaunt-
ing on lawns mower-striped
like damask; finished with
legendary imprecations of
anger as he sighted his hideous
feet; finished with, lay in the
stables like a tossed-out shawl.
Everywhere and on the roofs
of these assassins skilled in
self-redemption and casting
shadows, not of life, but of
discord and destruction, the
rain fell. It fell, too, on the
roof lidding-down assassinated
Tolfer, who, shut in a bath-
room, spectacles pushed up,
sponged with a filthy handker-
chief at a glut of tears, at the
addition of renounced tears,
at the addition of all the tears
no one had used for the
destroyed and discarded pea-
cock or destroyed and dis-
carded anything.
PLACE IN THE BUSH
White, the river disgorges from the black
Boulder-shadowed, rainbow-shouldered
Pitch of the gorge to the river flat.
Picks its way, and so do we, not so gently
Raging done, repenting now,
Through graveyard rock and headstone Utter.
Picks its way. and so do we, not so gently
Past the plumes and sabres, lines unbroken,
Toi-tois on the bank, until the river■ hits
Beneath the belt of roots, the river undercuts
The red earth crumbling as we clamber
Up to the hut by the broken beech-tree.
That old beech made good firewood,
Cracking louder than the axe. and glowing
Yellow streamers long into the night.
The days were measured by a beech-tree burning
And good food going, and the time
The deer came down rang out like chimes.
N.Z.
BARRY MITCALFE.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
A LETTER FROM INDONESIA
it is easy to fit the
* * following letter from Indo-
nesian President Soekarno to
London “New Statesman” into
the general pattern of propa-
ganda—Communist* and other-
wise—against nuclear weapons,
there would seem to be rather
more to it than that. If it is
propaganda, it is very skilful
indeed, and merits consideration
on that count alone. Taken, on
the other hand, simply as an
expression of an Asian point
of view, it is quite an impressive
document, meriting even more
thoughtful consideration:
“We in Indonesia followed
w'ith absorbed interest the
correspondence of Earl Russell,
Mr. Khrushchev and Mr.
Dulles concerning the H-bomb.
We also watch with some relief
the tide of mass-protest grow-
ing in some of the hydrogen-
armed countries. I feel that the
voice of an Asian should be
heard on this matter. There-
fore, although uninvited, 1 am
writing to you. I am writing
from Djakarta, a city near the
middle of Asia, the continent
chosen as the atomic and
hydrogen testing-ground.
“The war-time victims of the
atomic bomb were Asians ; it is
scientifically indicated that the
peace-time victims of hydrogen-
bomb testing are mostly Asian.
It is quite time that Asian
voices w'ere heard .on this
matter. It is true that the
choice of life or nuclear death
is not in our hands, but at least
we have the right and duty to
speak and protest. It is our
future no less than yours which
is at stake.
"“As a man, a father, an
Asian and a human being
made in the image of God, I
am appalled at the cynicism
of those who wield atomic
weapons. They speak of saving
their forms of civilisation, yet
their policy is based on the
determination to destroy, if
they conceive it necessary, that
civilisation. And, of course,
that destruction would not be
confined to themselves. The
nature of nuclear warfare
means that there could be no
neutrality in such a clash. We,
too, are inevitably scheduled
for’the nuclear incinerator if
your ‘fail-safe’ civilisation
should go wrong. It is a fear-
ful thought that the future of
the world rests upon the proper
functioning of a thermionic
valve somewhere in the Arctic.
“In his letter to you, Mr.
Dulles made the point that the
creed of the United States is
based on the tenets of moral
law. This I fully accept, just
as I accept the great political
and emotional impact of the
American Declaration of In-
dependence and of the Com-
munist Manifesto. What
cannot be accepted is a wilful
perversion of moral law, a per-
version whose weight falls upon
the unconsulted and the un-
born.
“It must be recognised that
both main nuclear Powers are
prepared to wage nuclear war
in defence of what they con-
sider to be their vital interests.
Neither Power is’ prepared to
jeopardise itself nor forsake anv
possible advantage. Both are
determined that the other shall
not maintain a lead in retali-
atory or offensive pow'er. This
is a fact of political life. This
situation will continue so long
as their ideologies remain vital.
“In this situation, we of Asia
are little but pawns in the game.
We do not, and for this I am
grateful, have atomic bombs to
flourish. However, it would
be most unwise to disregard
Asian opinion. In all sincerity,
I tell you that we are growing
increasingly resentful of the
present situation. Asians are
the chief victims of the West’s
failures and moral bankruptcy.
“The West is fScing a moral
crisis. If there are any future
generations, what will be their
verdict on this second half of
the 20 th century? There
is no doubt at all that the test-
ing of these horror-weapons,
let alone their use, has already
claimed its victims, probably
running into scores of
thousands, already born and
still unborn. You have abro-
gated to yourselves powers
which rightly belong to the
Almighty ; you have already
ensured that the sins of the
fathers —your sins—shall be
visited upon the children. Be-
lieve me in this context, we in
Asia do not see you as saviors
of civilisation or as fore-
runners of the future ; we see
you as agents of death —our
death.
“I am writing this letter on
the occasion of the anti-H-
-bomb week in Indonesia
Already, outside my official
residence, thousands of people
are gathering. Do not think
that they are Communists or
Communist dupes. They are
ordinary people, worried and
wondering about their future,
hopeful that their simple lives
will not be ended and their
hopes ruined by mistakes they
did not make, but by distant
people to whom they owe noth-
ing. This anti-H-bomb week
has been arranged in connec-
tion with the series of tests in
Eniwetok. In terms of fallout,
that is in our backyard. How
many Asians will die as a result
of those tests? Can the
scientists tell us?
“The tenets of moral law
compel us to protest. Three
years ago, the Bandoeng Con-
ference ‘considered that dis-
armament and the prohibition
of experimentation and use of
nuclear and thermo-nuclear
weapons of war are imperative
to save mankind and civilisation
from the fear and prospect of
wholesale destruction.'
“We still believe that a firm
and assured peace is necessary
for us in order that our
peoples can reconstruct these
Asian States. We cannot im-
pose peace upon the world,
but we demand the right to be
heard and consulted. The Ban-
doeng Conference further
appealed that, ‘pending the total
prohibition of the manufacture
of nuclear weapons, all the
Powers concerned should reach
agreement to suspend experi-
ments with such weapons.’
Three years later, only one
Power has done so. Whatever
the reasons for that action, we
welcome it just as we should
welcome any similar action by
other Powers.
“If Western civilisation, both
the Communist and the anti-
communist branches, cannot
solve this problem, then it
probably deserves to perish. It
must be realised that this now
is not only a problem of
security, but a problem of
morality, personal and inter-
national.
“We utterly deny the right
of the West to continue im-
perilling us and our future.
We utterly deny you the right
to cause cancer in our children.
It is past time for the West,
Communist and anti-Com-
munist alike, to draw back
from the edge of complete
moral bankruptcy. It is
explicitly your task to utilise Lhe
—London “News Chronicle ”
“THEY’LL BE SHOUTING ‘MAN HAS HIT THE MOON!’ JUST AS THEY
COP THIS LOT ”


Compounded from an old Indian Formula, STRATTONS RHEUMATIC
and ARTHRITIS POWDER contains no harmful drugs, will not affect
the heart and has successfully overcome the most difficult and
obstinate cases when all other treatments have failed. Persons in all
walks of life have found freedom from suffering, and hundreds of
grateful letters from satisfied users have been received by our
Consultant whose Treatment Advice is made available to you
FREE OF CHARGE as part of our’Personalised Service which has
revolutionised the treatment of all types of Rheumatism and Arthritis
throughout the Commonwealth. _ . _
Four Weeks Treatment complete with Advice and Instructions and a
SPECIAL CONCESSION VOUCHER if your complaint needs
treatment . . . costs only £1 POST FREE.
STRATTONS RHEUMATIC POWDER Ltd.
9 Barrack St., Perth, W.A.
—London “Daily Herald "
THE SILENT SUMMIT THAT TALKS LOUDEST OF THEM ALL.
skill and technique of your
science for peaceful purposes.
“One-tenth of the treasure
and skill used in making your
hydrogen-weapons could trans-
form my country. We are still
in a pre-industrial stage of
development. We know that the
engines which drive an atomic
submarine can drive electric
generators. We know which
we prefer.
“There can be no question
now of the West giving moral
leadership to Asia. Your moral
leadership has, for us, meant
first colonialism and now the
philosophical, moral, political
and social bankruptcy of a
nuclear arms-race.
“The thousands of people
who are now gathered outside
Merdeka Palace may be politi-
cally unsophisticated (although
no more so than a mass-meeting
in a Western country), but they
are not fools. They are awake.
You in the West are causing
more gaps between humanity :
you are also losing the battle
for the hearts and minds of
men.”
Lebanon
British and U.S. press opposi-
tion to intervention in the
Lebanon dispute having been
largely supported by the find-
ings of U.N. observers, at least
two prominent writers on
their respective sides of the
Atlantic see the “crisis” as one
more melancholy consequence
of the original retreat from
Suez.
Thus Joseph Alsop, in New
York “Herald Tribune,” com-
ments that “the pleas [from
Lebanon and other pro-West
countries in the Middle East]
have called for Anglo-Amer-
ican action, including even the
open use of military force, to
prevent a Nasser victory here
[in Lebanon]. Use force if you
must, the pleas have run, but
stop this threatened chain-
reaction in the Middle East
by any and all means.
“This is the kind of situation
that American policy-makers
ought to have foreseen long
before Suez. They should
surely have foreseen it before
they took their grandiose moral
stand during the Suez crisis.
Even more surely, they should
have foreseen this situation in
the rough course of the past
18 months.
“But they did not foresee
what was coming. They took no
adequate preventive action.
Now they are squarely con-
fronted with the consequences
of their own improvidence.
“Already the consequences
are bad enough. Only a few
months ago Nasser drew a
bead on another Western friend,
King Saud of Saudi Arabia. In
the upshot, King Saud was
virtually forced to abdicate. A
month ago, Nasser drew a
bead on President Chamoun [of
Lebanon]. In the upshot,
President Chamoun has already
been forced to promise not to
be a candidate to succeed him-
self, as he might otherwise have
done.
“Politics in the Arab lands
are highly personal. By show-
ing his power to pick-off
individual friends of the West
in this manner, Nasser has
already achieved much. Let
him go on to win a total victory
in Lebanon then all the
voices from afar, warning of
a catastrophic and final
Western defeat in the Middle
East, will surely be proven
truly prophetic.”
One of the most consistent
of these voices has been John
Connell, author, leader-writer
(London “Evening News”) and
frequent contributor to London
“Time and Tide.” Possibly
more than any other writer on
the Middle East he is entitled to
say “I told you so,” having
opposed every step of the
retreat since Suez, and having
prophesied practically every
subsequent setback the West
has suffered in the Middle East
since then.
Currently, in “Time and
Tide,” he notes that “Sir
Winston described World War
II as the Unnecessary War.
The ‘Times’ (I think it was)
described the London bus-strike
as the Unnecessary Strike. The
to-do in Lebanon is the utterly
Unnecessary Crisis. If the
Israelis, just across the frontier
from Ras el Makhura, watch
its slow, tortuous development
with a certain grim forbear-
ance, is not this the most effec-
tive comment on it all?
“Who is trying to destroy the
independence, freedom and
sovereignty of a small, once-
peaceful, once-prosperous Arab
State? Not the aggressive
Israelis, but the United Arao
Republic, recently compli-
mented on its peace-loving out-
look by that supreme expert
in these matters, Archbishop
Makarios. What conflict is the
largest concentration of naval
force in the Mediterranean
since Suez poised ready to
localise and break-up? Cer-
tainly not an Arab-Israel con-
flict. This is the measure of
the Western Powers’ previous
folly and shortsightedness.
This is the consequence—not
the ultimate result, but one of
the many disagreeable stages
on the road to conclusive
disaster of the years of
appeasement of our enemies in
this area.
“There are dozens of obvious
reasons why it must be foolish
as well as wrong to intervene in
Lebanon. But this is where
appeasement gets you. And I
who write these words in grief
and wrath pointed it out again
and again and again.
“It was not so difficult to see ;
the examples and the analogies
littered recent history. There
were dozens of reasons why it
was foolish as well as wrong to
give in April, 1939, a guarantee
to Poland which we had to
fulfil in September, 1939. About
half the, school and university
friends whom I grew up with
and loved lie in their graves
in war cemeteries all over the
world, vindicating by their
lives—which were all that men
such as I, in our generation, had
to give—that folly and all the
other folly and wickedness that
preceded it.
“The unchallenged German
entry into the Rhineland in
1936 —every secondary school-
boy is taught this now —was


Failh in JJic
\
As an Australian accustomed to wide spaces,
I was surprised to find in Jerusalem how short a
distance separates the places named in the Gospel
story.
The Way of the Cross itself, winding through
the narrow streets of the old city, spans scarcely a
quarter of a mile from Pilate’s judgment hall to the
sites of Calvary and the Tomb, which are within
the Church of the Holy Sepulchre.
I was surprised at the proximity with which
the location of the three crosses is marked on the
High Altar at the site of the Crucifixion. They are
much closer than has been depicted in religious art.
One of the abiding memories I have of
Jerusalem isjhe view from a height looking east
to the Mount of Olives. From the site of the old
Temple in the city behind, to the top of the Mount
is barely a mile-and-a-half. And down in between
across the Brook of Cedron is the Garden of
Gethsemane, where Christ suffered His agony and
was betrayed by Judas.
Only three-and-a-half miles south of Jerusalem
is Bethlehem, but the demarcation line between
Jews and Arabs gives Israel control of the direct
route; and I travelled a tortuous road of fourteen
miles along the hills on the Jordan side of the
border to visit the Church of the Nativity, erected
over the manger where Christ was born.
To a Christian viewing the Jerusalem scene, the
wonder is that so much happened in so small a
space. But, then, who is to measure the enormity
of an event by the area in which it was enacted?
For those who can see and want to see, here
it is in all its sorrow and triumph. And out of it
came a Faith that was to sweep the world, compel
the love of countless millions, and change the
channels of history.
ee'ictx.
y
the point of no-return in the
’thirties. It is eas-y, I know,
to be wise after the event, but
in that particular matter I am
conscious that I myself was
quite wise enough before the
event. So, in the even more
fearful ’fifties, the point of
no-return was the British evaCu-
ation of the Suez Canal Zone
base in 1954. I have a file full
of my protests^—mostly, I am
glad to say, published in ‘Time
and Tide’ against that abjectly
foolish action.
“All the miseries that have
flowed from it Cyprus,
Jordan, Suez, 1956, and now
this complex [Lebanon] crisis
—could have been averted. Sir
Anthony Eden would still be
the leader of her Majesty’s
—London “Daily Mail”
THE ICE-MAN RETURNETH.
Government; Glubb Pasha
would be in Amman ; nobody
would bother to be cross
because Archbishop Fisher
invites Archbishop Makarios
to the Lambeth Conference;
Beirut would be busy and
prosperous and peaceful: and
many young Egyptian, Israeli,
French and British soldiers
would still be alive.”
De Gaulle and Britain
British Prime Minister Mac-
millan was the first foreign
statesman to be received by
General de Gaulle since his
recent return to power - a
fitting enough gesture,
“Daily Telegraph” observes,
since, 18 years ago in 1940, a
British Prime Minister was first
to receive the then new leader
of France.
During the war years, the
“Daily Telegraph” adds, “the
humiliation that his country
had just suffered made de
Gaulle a touchy partner,
Fortunately all the evidence lo-
day suggests that Mr. Mac-
millan will find him very much
mellower and easier to work
with than did Sir Winston
Churchill. They meet as equals
in fact as well as theory, with
many years *of personal
acquaintance behind them,
“But the General has many
preoccupations. Until he has
solved the Algerian impasse,
regained undisputed control
over the Army, and evolved an
effective political system in
France, the question of his
international attitudes will
remain academic. Without
peace in North Africa, France
cannot operate a common
market, let alone a free-trade
area; without a loyal Army
France cannot play a con-
structive part in Nato; with-
out a political system likely to
strike lasting roots France
cannot enjoy influence in world
affairs.
“It would be idle to pretend
that all has gone well in the
weeks since he [de Gaulle]
assumed power. The Army has
still restive elements. Neither
in Algiers itself nor in metro-
politan France is his writ un-
disputed. This danger is com-
pounded by a peculiar contra-
diction at the heart of his
Algerian policy which makes it
difficult for him to stamp on
these dangerous men as hard
as he would wish. He seeks to
rally the Moslems by giving
them the same political rights
as Frenchmen. But can this be
done except by setting up a
personal autocracy which
would solve the problem of


WHITE
TO POUR OUT White Horse Scotch Whisky for
friends who really know whisky is a particular
pleasure. Warmth, bouquet and flavour, name
and fame all combine in the grand total of their
enjoyment.
To offer your friends White Horse defines the
standards of your hospitality. With every drop
they taste a welcome far warmer than mere
words.
HOtfSE
#
3*
rtf
f&k
'V, c *
‘■'ii,
He
5 3
m
Scotch Whisky
R 52
Franco-Moslem inequality by
denying democracy to both
Frenchmen and Moslem, alike?
This is certainly not de Gaulle's
aim. But the logic of integra-
tion may carry him in this
direction against his will.
“To be set against this danger
are his undoubted successes,
particularly with the Franco-
Tunisian accord and the new
French loan, both of which
reflect the authority and con-
fidence he undoubtedly inspires
in most quarters, as much in
North Africa as at home. There
are many ways in which
Britain can help to buttress this
authority and confidence by
demonstrating this country’s
profound belief in his mission
and our respect for him as a
leader with much to contribute
both to France and the whole
free world.”
Atomic Power for
Europe
London “Economist’s”
summing-up of the proposed
agreement between the U.S.A.
and Euratom (the European
Atomic-energy Authority):
“It [the- agreement] provides
for a joint 10-year programme
of research and reactor develop-
ment costing $lOO million in
the first five years and financed
on a 50-50 basis ; and for the
in Europe of
about a thousand megawatts of
power-capacity by 1963 at a
•cost of $350 million. America
will contribute $135 million
towards this programme in the
form of credits which Euratom
will re-lend to the power- or
construction-companies which
are doing the work.
“The supply of fuel —at the
low American domestic price—
is guaranteed for 20 years ; and
America will buy-up any
surplus plutonium which is pro-
duced as a. by-product. Most
important, the Americans have
agreed to leave to Euratom
itself the task of inspection to
ensure that fissile material is
not used for warlike ends.
“A fair assessment of what
the agreement may mean in
practice requires a good deal of
imagmation. It has not yet
been ratified by Congress. Since
the reactors using enriched
uranium which are Envisaged
are not yet commercially viable,
it is not very easy to tell what
part they will play in the end
in the supply of power to
Europe. A thousand mega-
watts of capacity seems a
meagre figure beside the 15,000
megawatts set as a target for
Euratom by its three wise men
last year. The community has
in any case announced that that
target will probably not be
realised by the date they
suggested—l97o.
• “Yet the new partnership
has great potentialities. The
agreement may well be ratified
by Congress within the next
two months. And both the
research programme and the
pilot-plan for nuclear power
could expand in time into
something much bigger. The
agreement should give Eur-
atom a capital-fund of cash and
know-how enabling it to exert a
powerful formative influence
on the power-programmes of
member-countries. America,
for its part, would gain a test-
ing ground for its reactors on
a commercial scale as well as
a foothold in the European
market. Common commercial
interest as well as political
sympathy has inspired the
agreement.
- “It is good news that friendly
contacts have been made in
London with Euratom repre-
sentatives —» the first step
towards the of an
agreement between Britain and
the new community. As the
only country that can offer
atomic power-stations over the
counter today, Britain is at
present in a strong position
to dictate commercial terms
to European countries that
want atomic power soon. But
Euratom’s officials, fortified by
the American agreement,
believe that they, too, will soon
have something to offer. In
negotiating the terms of a last-
ing association with Britain
they feel that time is on their
side.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Charity
All that fuss about a church
raffling a pub to build up its
funds points-up the fact that
there is hardly a charity whicft
doesn’t derive some part of its
money from raffles, sweeps or
similar devices.
At one time the creed of the
bush was that you sent round
the hat for anyone in trouble,
but today, at least in the cities,
people no longer give some-
thing for nothing, and com-
passion has been replaced by
expedience. Hospitals depend
on lotteries, and businessmen
calculate how much they can
invest in alms to gain the
maximum in tax - rebates.
Charity has become an in-
direct form of taxation, and, if
it had not, revenue which
already covers some fields pre-
viously left to faith and good
works would have to be spread
to serve more. It’s still on the
cards that it will be.
That’s why * one turns with
more than nostalgia to the
Lawson story of “the Giraffe
and his blessed hat”—that hat
which “had been going round
for so many years that the
crown was worn as thin as
paper.”
It is still going round in the
outback today. Spiritual
descendants of Bob Brotheis
Still take round their Stetsons
and Akubras into which blokes
who are the spitting images of
One-eyed Bogan, Barcoo Rot,
Box o’ Tricks and Gentleman
Once, still chuck in “their
quids, half-quids, casers, half-
casers, bobs and tanners and
sprats —to say nothing of the
‘scrums’.”
And I know what they would
say to these newfangled ideas.
Only Mitchell, with his tongue
in his cheek, would be likely
to use words .like “Christian
ethics,” “individuality,” “con-
formity” and “mass-subscrip-
tion.” The others would insist,
in language neither subtle nor
lovely, that the Giraffes of the
community will still get help
for mates in trouble when they
“send round the hat.”
Nimrod (W.A.).
Truck-drivers’ Wages
Payment of holiday-pay to
piecework canecutters (B.
11/6/’5B) is not the only
industrial anomaly in Queens-
land.
Owner-drivers of trucks
working on local-authority,
main-roads and many other
Government-department works
are paid for holidays—and so
are their trucks. A truck carry-
ing five cubic-yards of material
is paid approximately £l4 a
day of eight hours, which, in
round figures, is dissected into
£ll a day for the truck-hire
and £3 a day driver’s wages.
Generally, with a proclaimed
Show-holiday, there are 10
statutory holidays a year, so
that truckies employed for the
whole year as many are —
receive approximately £llO a
year for keeping their trucks ill
the garages. Strangely, the truck
is not paid if the owner-driver
is off on sick-pay or while he
is on annual leave, nor is a
penalty hire-rate paid for over-
time.
There was a time, before the
outbreak of World "War 11,
when truck hire-rates did in-
crease in proportion with the
drivers’ rate when overtime was
worked.. Even the unions,
which had fought to have
penalty wage-rates paid /for
time worked outside the
ordinary hours, saw something
anomalous in paying penalty-
rates to machinery.
Truckies, like canecutters,
are members of the A.W.U.,
but it should be remembered
that the Arbitration Court, not
the union, makes awards. —
Whumbal (Q.).
“Any idea who parked this car here ?”
Where’s the Wool?
The advertising and selling
of woollen garments needs a
good shake-up. Because the
shops are full of synthetic, or
part-synthetic, garments whose
virtues the shops extol, the
public buys.
Last winter T bought one
such sweater, and one bitter day
1 nearly froze. This expensive
mistake made me rather bitter.
1 gave it as a present —and now
she doesn’t even nod to me.
It’s the same with socks and
singlets; these wool and
synthetic mixtures are not tor
southern Victoria. Pleated
skirts of the kind are a delight
to look after, as they launder
beautifully, but as far as
warmth goes you might as well
wear linen. I look forward to
the time when skirts treated
with the new C.S.I.R.Q.
process come onto the market.
Then we can be both warm
and chic.
Pure - wool fabrics are
delightful to work with, as any
tailor or dressmaker will tell
you, and if properly handled
will last a long time. They
come in a most attractive array
of weights and colors, so lovely
it is a joy to go into the shops
to handle them in the piece.
The synthetic and part-
synthetic materials have even
invaded the baby-wear depart-
ments. They are now in
bootees!- If Australian mothers
really buy them they must think
more of their own comfort than
their children’s.
Finally, don’t imagine that
Victorian winters are getting
colder, or that you are anaemic
or suffering from low blood-
pressure. You are just less-
warmly clad. If you value your
temper, your health and your
appearance WEAR MORE
WOOL. — Mrs. Merino (Vic.).
Too Greedy
History has a habit of repeat-
ing itself, a fact that is no
secret. How many of us think
of ways and means to prevent
a repetition of history which
is unfavorable and sometimes
disastrous, such as a depres-
sion?
Governments cannot prevent
bad seasons ; neither can they
prevent unfavorable business.
When it is all summed-up, greed
is our enemy.
Profits and wages can reach
a peak which is disastrous,
especially with regard to Aus-
tralia, where we pride ourselves
on our high standard of living.
We must beware that our
standard is not too far above
countries with which we would


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
Tbe Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,’’ to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
/ ...
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l. 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
trade. The years after the
1914-18 war saw many lose
their money to people who
offered a too-high rate of
interest, which they were un-
able to*maintain. There is a
medium in all things. S.M.
(N.S.W.).
New Zealand
Many of us New Zealanders
most certainly do not approve
-of the plaintive cry for help
so publicly broadcast by
our new Government. Indi-
vidually we are. proud of our
ability to cover adversity with
the appearance of well-being,
but now we feel that our
Government has “brought
shame to the Glen.”
We have a beautiful country.
It’s easily and safely worked in
its agricultural and pastoral
industries, with a hydroelectric
potential probably greater per
square-mile than that of any
other country. Up to now we
could claim to be regarded as
a pretty hardy, reliable, pay-
your-way sort of folk. Times
have been hard before, but
we’ve taken-up a few notches
in the belt, and come through
fine. We would do it again
with a strong statesmanlike
lead, but instead we get bigger
pensions, bigger baby-bonuses,
prevention from honoring our
commitments to pay for goods
imported and lying at wharves,
“survival” licences, and a suc-
cession of “touches” on our
relatives for hand-outs to let
us continue to live easy.
Some of us recently indulged
in wishful thinking about the
possibility of again becoming
an Australian State. The
actions and statements of Aus-
tralia’s Prime Minister and
Treasurer, and the “we’re-
going-ahead” attitude of Aus-
tralians, make the idea look
attractive. Modern communi-
cations make it look even prac-
tical. We could have the same
currency and could combine in
defence; we freely exchange
production, raw materials and
manufactures, scientists and
engineers ; and we could make
a mutual contribution to
culture, art and statesmanship.
—Festina Lente (N.Z.).
Farm Dams
“Wasted Water” (B. 18/6/’5B)
was timely, but one important
point was missed that of
storing water on farms in
earth-dams made and paid for
by the farmer for irrigating
small areas on his properly.
There is no reason why any
water should escape through
the boundary fence during
times of heavy rain.
In N. S. Wales all farm-
dams are supposed to be con-
structed under the supervision
of the Water Conservation
Commission. This is, of
course, most necessary, as the
bursting of a dam on a water-
course in flood-time can cause
a great deal of damage down-
stream.
There are many advantages
in having small irrigation areas
on individual farms. Firstly,
they can make the farms
virtually drought-proof, and
there should be a steady flow
of produce no matter how the
weather behaves.
As the use of the water stored
would lie completely in the
hands of the farmers concerned,
no new industries would have
to be built up, as the water
would be used to supplement
the existing industries in the
region. The farmer is not
going to change from wool-
growing to citrus-growing just
because he has started to irri-
gate a small area of land.
Rather he will stick to the thing
he knows well, and improve it.
Returns, therefore, will be
immediate.
The greater part of the catch-
ment-areas of the rivers
flowing west from the Great
Divide lies in arable land;
so if all creeks, streams, and
watercourses in this area were
dammed there would be
no risk at all of flooding. The
only water that would reach
the main river-systems would
be from rain that fell in the
rough mountain country.
To encourage and help the
building of farm-dams, I
believe a system whereby the'
Governments met the cost of
the dam pound-for-pound with
the farmer would be most
effective. D. S. Mitchell
(N.S.W.).
The World’s Food
What “Magnoon's” thought-
ful article (B. 4/6/’5B) boils
down to is that for the first
time in human history the
world’s population is pressing
hard against the supply' of
food; and that only two
factors —scientific farming and
birth-control are operating
to prevent disaster. So much is
clear, but some implications
are not so obvious.
No one knows just how
much food our land and sea
can be made to produce. Cer-
tainly- a great deal more than
at present, if farmers and
scientists are permitted to
work . together in peace for
another century or two. That
will require international co-
operation and planning, not
for an occasional year but
continuously ; and co-operation
on that scale will be im-
possible without peace between
the nations and stability of
government within them.
If those conditions are


secured, then population will
eventually be stabilised in some
reasonable relationship to
means of subsistence ; but, un-
fortunately, most of the
expected population - increase
will be in Asia and tropical
Africa, where it is unlikely that
education will spread fast
enough to prevent the birth-
rate keeping pace, with every
increase in the food-supply.
Given Governments as
realistic as that of Japan,
Asians and Africans may be
taught to limit their families,
but it will be a slow process at
the best. Educating millions
of peasants in modern farming
methods and all else needed
to adjust them to life in the
new world will be slower still
while they are obsessed by
the day-to-day struggle for
physical survival from one
harvest to the next.
In the past, the Asian masses
have passively accepted hunger
as a natural and inescapable
part of life. They will not
continue to do so. They will
expect to be fed, and if food
is not forthcoming they will
blame somebody for it. And
then what? This: If science
and the farmers do not or
cannot work fast, then within
the next half-century or less
sheer hunger will drive Asia to
war and anarchy, and we all
will be in it.
It is a grim picture, and
there is a possibility still more
grim which nobody, so far as
I know, has forseen or con-
sidered. Whether wars of the
future are fought with H-
bombs or with spears, they will
be fought for possession of
farmlands and fisheries, and
will be wars of extermination.
The conquerors will want rice-
fields and wheat-land, but they
will not want slaves.
Fifty years ago, the system-
atic killing-off of whole popu-
lations would have? been un-
thinkable. Power was then in
the hands of Christian nations
Who would not do such a thing,
nor permit it. Times change.
Power is no longer a monopoly
of Christians. For example,
there would not be a lew alive
in Europe today if Hitler had
won the war. — Jas. Macansh
(Q-).
Trams and Buses
Objection to the statement
attributed by “S. M. Herald”
to Sydney’s Deputy Com-
missioner of Public Transport,
W. L. Carter —that Melbourne
is the only major the
world continuing to favor
trams over buses.
Possibly it depends on what
he means by “major city” ; if
so, he is being rather offensive
to quite a number of European
and North American cities
whose fine modern trams would
make a Melburnian’s mouth
water.
At any rate, Melbourne busi-
nessmen will not be worrying
about such niceties when they
read Sir Norman Nock’s state-
ment that, since buses came to
Pitt Street, business has fallen
25 per cent. Business in Bourke
Street rose by 10 per cent, after
the trams came in.— Jakipi
(Vic.).
Build-and-sink Tunnels
Fremantle is another city
that could well find a pre-
fabricated tunnel a solution
to part of its traffic-problem
(B. 25/6/’5B).
Fremantle Harbor cannot be
extended till a railway-bridge
across its upstream end has
been moved. A new bridge
has been planned alongside an
existing road-bridge about half
a mile upstream. If a tunnel
were used —and, when neces-
sary, a tunnel for the road-
crossing—the harbor could be
extended as far as was desired
without any hindrance from
bridges.
South of Adelaide the
Murray River could profitably
be crossed by a tunnel at
Wellington to replace the ferry.
At Newcastle (N.S.W.) the
Stockton ferry could be replaced
by a tunnel less than half-a-
mile long. The traffic demand
is heavy, and the ferry-crossing
can at present only be avoided
by a journey of about 12 miles.
In Brisbane the . Storey
Bridge is about 14 miles from
the mouth of the river. This
crossing could be much short-
ened for many people by a
strategically placed tunnel.
Tunnels could provide' water-
way crossings without restrict-
ing navigation at many points
where main roads now meet
punts or narrow bridges
across coastal and inland
rivers—D. R. Carter (N.S.W.).
The Chinese
Conventional group-behavior
is almost always associated
with religious belief, and who-
ever first said “Man has
always created his gods in his
own image” had studied men
as well as Holy Writ. How-
ever, whether Confucianism
and Buddhism are responsible
for Chinese character (B.
2/7/’5B), or whether the
Chinese accepted those placid
and contemplative creeds
because their special innate
racial aptitudes predisposed
them that way, the result of
thousands of years of inter-
action is an ingrained racial
way of looking at things, so
fixed that the deadweight of
it in that human mass may well
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 495
Across
I—The non-boss classes describe an English filtri-producer
escaping from gaol! (4-3-4)
6—-Fishing equipment has a’length of s|yds. (3)
B—Protests about Belgian battlefield effects of
hypnotism. (13)
10— A comment on the dead doctor in the middle shirt
description. (4-3)
11— Lamb is alter a morning girl. (6)
13 —Shied away from marshland first,
but had the lead at last. (7)
15—Wine which Falstaff fancied, but
South Australia cut around a
Sydney beer-maker of music. (7)
17 — The bride says. (3)
18 — Horseshoe postscript of hot out-
comes. (7)
20 —Mother, unfortunate dog. (7)
22 —Pop an object of worship by a
temple. (6)
24 —King George has forbidden fruit
to seize upon. (7)
26 — One who can’t catch ram or
goat digits. (13)
27 Panelling the old man with
nothing. (4)
28 — Mounts tillers, but they’re lucky
equipment for American pitch-
ing. (10)
Down
1 — Circuitous bit of the boxing and
a boxing engagement in a merry-
go-round. (10)
2 Crabbing defence force of Aus-
tralia upset His Majesty. (7)
3 —Give a gun to a stupid fellow
and duck a scaly creature. (9)
4 Toy vehicle making a noise over
the little Kentucky pennies with
black following. (5)
5 Efface. (5)
6 About 151 with a medical degree
go up again. (7)
7 Great Italian actress is badly
used. (4)
9—A thwart beam ran most pecu-
liarly. (7)
12—Fist Ernest shook for starch and
the like. (10)
14 —Faddist affect heartened by this
qualification of the side of the
females. (7)
16 —Throw a fishing gear wherewith
Carmen dances her seguedilla. (9)
19 —Began to give Edward the lead-
ing role. (7)
21 —I’m tense over nothing but the
way the paints are laid on. (7)
23 — Frank has nothing to write. (4)
24 lam deserting a man of supreme
talent, being kind. (5)
25 — You can play these four notes
on the piano when resting. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 494


QUEENSLAND
INSURANCE
Co. Ltd.
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE &
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies
throughout the World.
BALD PATCHES
Hair grown secret formula
Sacred Eastern Oils. Rarely
falls. Treats Alopecia. Leading
broadcaster's liair grown after
years of Baldness. Effective
treatment for dandruff (Basic
cause of nearly all hair sick-
ness!. and stops falling hair.
My herbal treatment restores
grey hair to original colour.
Not a dye—not injurious, not
obvious. Names given of lead-
ing citizens (with their per-
mission! who gratefully testify.
My treatment used in privacy
of your home.
For free advice write—
MRS. A, EASTON,
Box 5204, G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE
resist the energy of the impact
of Russian Comm'uni st
ideology, and in the end absorb
it.
As to Chinese national
character, I grew-up among
Chinese on a worked-out
diggings. They were simple
folk ; fossickers, market-
gardeners, small shopkeepers.
Illiterate, many of them. We
spoke with them in “pidgin
English.” Some of their ways
“T'd like to see the Joneses keep up with THIS!”
were both dark and peculiar,
but they were fond of children,
and kind to their women and
horses. They were lovers of
good food and of laughter,
and meticulously honest jn
business ; and they were friends
as staunch as one could have.
Because of my experience
with an earlier generation, I
predict that the Chinese "of
tomorrow will evolve a more
human philosophy than the
Russians have done or ’'seem
likely to do. If they don’t,
Heaven help the world —there
are 600-million Chinese and
they’re coming like a bushfire.
—I- M. (Q).
The Metric System
We may be closer to the
decimal age than we realise.
The Royal Melbourne, Vic-
toria’s .largest hospital, has
introduced the metric system
of measurement into its wards
and pharmacy. All measure-
ments of patients height,
weight, temperature and fluid
measurements —are now taken
and recorded in the metric
system, which has also replaced
three different systems pre-
viously used in the hospital’s
pharmacy. And the chief
pharmacist states that his staff
has found little difficulty in
working exclusively to metric
measurements —he predicts that
other hospitals will soon have
to follow the Royal Mel-
bourne’s lead.
If the metric system can be
introduced successfully and to
practical advantage in a great
hospital, why not in other in-
stitutions? Why not, in fact,
throughout industry? The
savings would be immense:
take, for example, the build-
ing industry, where laborious
and detailed calculations, with
frequent possibility of error
under our cumbersome
systems of reckoning, contri-
bute in no small part towards
costs.
Decimal coinage is some-
thing that depends upon
Government decision, but there
is scope for the introduction
of metric measurement by in-
dustries themselves, and by
other organisations. Sport, for
example, is one sphere in which
the adoption of metric
standards would cause a mini-
mum of inconvenience to any-
one, and would bring Australia
into line with practice that is
rapidly becoming universal. —-
Wusslean (Vic.).
Assimilation
I’m beginning to wonder if
our methods of assimilating
migrants are the right ones.
The majority of migrants are
Italians, and, as an individual,
the Italian is a pretty decent
sort of fellow—put him on his
own to work with a gang of
Aussies and he can, and will,
become assimilated. That was
the way of things before the
war.
These days it is different.
The Italian population in
Fairfield (N.S.W.) municipality
is given as 20,000 out of a
population of 60,000; in the
outer wards Italian migrants
predominate by as much as 95
per cent. In those areas
English is neither wanted nor
spoken. Surely the first step in
assimilation is a wish to learn
the language of/the country of
one’s adoption.
German and Dutch migrants
can often read and write
English before they arrive in
Australia, having learnt the
language at school (sometimes
they are unable to speak it
until they have mastered the
pronunciation); Poles tell me
that English is taught in “the
gymnasiums” (high - schools),
while Slavs and Russians, it'
unable to speak English, are
equally anxious to learn it. But
the Italian in Australia is too
often content to remain just
that : an Italian in Australia.
About four years ago a visit-
ing authority on migration
stated that the New Australian
population in the Fair-
field municip a 1 i t y was
greater than that in the
whole of Western Australia.
Since then the Italian popula-
tion in the district, particularly
in Smithfield and its environs,
has increased threefold. Yet
the Education Department has
had to issue a warning that,
unless more migrants avail
themselves of the opportunity
to learn English, .night-classes
at Smithfield Public School will
have to be discontinued. The
enrolment necessary to keep
the classes going is nine
students, with an average
attendance of six!
The editor of our local paper
found it necessary to state in
an editorial that this was an
English-speaking country and
he did not feel justified in print-
ing news, advertisements, etc.
in foreign languages. Now
invitations to the Grande
Ballo and similar occasioni
appear on a notice-board in
the town —ail printed in Italian.
The fact is that the Italian
migrant has broken faith. If
he had shown any intention of
becoming a New Australian in
its proper sense, there could
be little, if any, objection to
his entry in limitless numbers.
There can, however, be an
overwhelming objection to the
steady annexation of Australia
to Italy.— Fair* (N.S.W.).


In Holland the use of
string impregnated
with fats distilled
from the paws of cer-
tain animals has
proved a more effec-
tive obstacle to
rabbits than the
strongest fence. Per-
haps as - great a
menace to the
grazier’s prosperity as
rabbits are the old-
fashioned unhygienic
methods of stock
management. One
method which is
costly in lamb produc-
tion is the use of cut-
ting appliances for
marking and tailing.
Modern Elastrator
Rubber Rings save
lamb life and preserve
prime lamb condition
since they avoid caus-
ing set-back and shock
and are a safeguard
against disease and
fly-strike.
ROYAL JELLY
Direct'from tlie bees. One month's
supply in capsules £5/5/- airmail
post free: free leaflet.
REX PEACOCK,
Apiarist, 21 Carbine Street.
KERAXG, VICTORIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS”
THE FIRST AUSTRALIAN CROPDUSTER
By “COLLINS STREET”
A lthough there are today
more than 40 firms which
own 170 agricultural aircraft
between them, and experts
estimate that aerial topdressing
in Australia might extend to
10- or 20-million acres in the
next 10 to 15 'years —in the
year fo last September 1,750,000
acres were treated —very little
is heard in the cities of aerial
agriculture.
I was therefore very happy to
receive a gilt-edged invitation
from Sir Sydney Rowell, as
chairman of the Common-
wealth Aircraft Corporation,
and his directors to an inspec-
tion and demonstration of the
Ceres agricultural aeroplane at
the company’s Fishermen’s
Bend (Port Melbourne) aero-
drome ; and on the sunny,
breezy afternoon of July 1
I was one of a hundred or so
respectable persons on the
tarmac—C.A.C. officials, repre-
sentatives of Government
departments, daily-newspaper-
men, farm-paper journalists
and others.
The Ceres behaved surpris-
ingly. She took-o(f quickly,
turned in a small radius,
dropped to an almost incred-
ibly low speed, made three runs
“Are you the doctor?”
spraying her load of super-
phosphate ; then dumped the
rest to demonstrate a safety-
device if a miscalculation about
trees or high-tension wires had
been made —and she seemed
hardly ever out of cooee.
The makers claim it is the
best and safest agricultural air-
craft in the world, cart accom-
plish three or four times more
work than the at-present most
generally used agricultural
aeroplane in Australia ; that she
can carry topdressing for 132
acres with super., or spray 380
acres with insecticide in an
hour, can carry more than
20001 b. of super., or 250 gallons
of insecticide, and can dump the
entire load in only four seconds
in an emergency.
The price of the Ceres* is
£14,000. It will be sold here,
in New Zealand and possibly
elsewhere. Two prototypes
have been made and tested, and
general production is under
way; 40 more are planned
initially. One aircraft will be
turned-out every six weeks
after March next and one
every fortnight later.
The cropduster is a low-wing,
single-seater monoplane, with
wingspan of 46ft. lliri., overall
length of 30ft. B|in., 12ft. sin.
high standing level, and 9ft.
with tail on ground.
The price has been cut by the
use of the famous Wirraway’s
engine, undercarriage legs and
welded sections, but it is not
a development of the Wirra-
way ; it is a new aircraft that
has good handling charac-
teristics, a low-speed perform-
ance of 54 miles and a positive
tendency to unstall.
It is the seventh type of aero-
plane built by Commonwealth
Aircraft Corporation; the
earlier six were the Wirraway,
Wackett trainer, Boomerang
fighter, Mustang fighter, Win-
jeel trainer and Avon Sabre
fighter.
Sir Sydney Rowell, as did his
fellow-directors, looked very
pleased at what was to come.
Most company-chairmen would
have taken a comfortable back-/
seat, but for the General it was
like being Chief of the General
Staff again ; he led his supports
around the tarmac and had a
final briefing with Roy Goon,
the pilot (who was flying his
49th type of aircraft; the most
important were from Borneo
during the war).
Sir Sydney had explained to
us that the corporation,
although it had a charter from
the Government to build mili-
tary aircraft for the R.A.A.F.,
was subject to the variations in
economic policy and strategy
of peace, and to peaks and
troughs in the industry, and had
to level them out to retain
skilled men.
The Ceres (named after the
Roman goddess of corn and
fertility) was decided on as a
real contribution to the
country’s economy ; a safer air-
craft with a much greater pay-
load for the great strides being
made in pasture-improvement
and the like by aerial spraying
and cropdusting in Australasia.
(Late in 1956, when C.A.C.
could see the end of the first
order for 90 Avon Sabres, no
order had been given for the
follow-up aircraft. The cor-
poration still hopes for an order
to build fighter-type military
aircraft to follow the Avon
Sabres.)
With their eye on sales, the
corporation designed and built
an aircraft to carry graziers’
supplies to isolated areas ; to
carry farm-loads such as
fencing-materials and stock-
foods by the use of slings to
be dropped where needed ; to
permit farming in mountainous
terrain ; and for use in floods
and fire-fighting (with its 250-
gallon capacity).
Aside from pasture-improve-
ment areas, there are large
tracts of water-catchment land
where aerial topdressing would
Stimulate plant-growth and
minimise soil-erosion'; aerial
spraying has a big potential in
weed- and insect-control in the
crop-area of just on 22-million
acres, and in clearing millions
of acres of scrub for pastoral
purposes.
The Ceres will accomplish
about four times more work
than the majority of crop-
dusters in the local fleets. Most
of the aircraft now used were
bought from Air Force dis-
posals and converted, but their
performance is frequently
marginal.
C.A.C. has made some


Circular Charts for all types
of Recording Instruments
•or any dan of Machinery
or Equipment
METER CHARTS a Specialty
ACCURACY GUARANTEED
OUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
research on accidents in crop-
dusters and found there have
b6en 102 in the last five years ;
six were fatal and 19 involved
injuries. This is low compared
with overseas fatal accidents.
Not all those who lost their
lives were engaged in agricul-
tural operations at the time.
Some either wpre ferrying
agricultural aircraft or flying
complementary to the job ; but
20 aircraft were written-off and
81 substantially damaged m
that time.
As experience and the intro-
duction of more-modern equip-
ment increased, with an im-
provement in air and ground
techniques, the industry has
stabilised. More operators with
increasing capital are joining,
better-class pilots are available,
and in the last two years 10
new firms have ' entered the
industry with 30 new aircraft
worth £330,000.
Although they have taken
part in some limited cropdust-
ing, helicopters have made no
impression on aerial agriculture
in Australia. Only 0.5 per
cent, of aircraft used in a,erial
agriculture in the U.S. are heli-
copters.
Very much in evidence at the
display were the representatives
of the Civil Aviation Depart-
ment, which had given the plane
a rigid examination for
handling characteristics,
stability and performance
before issuing the air-
worthiness certificate; and
the department’s alert public-
relations boys have backed-up
the new venture with an aerial-
agriculture booklet which is in-
formative and authoritative.
GM2II
“S.C.”: This season a pad-
dock of GM2II, one of the
most promising of all maize
hybrids, looks like setting an
N.S.W. record for yield.
Unofficial estimates of the
crop grown by George Bur-
gess, of Bega, give a yield of
from 190 to 203 bushels per
acre. This won the 1958 field-
maize competition conducted
by the Bega A.P.H. Society.
The maize was grown on
flood-sediment soil on the
Bega River, the land having
been ploughed in August and
rotary-hoed and twice scarified
in September. The four-acre
paddock was sown on October
27, and the crop was scuffled
four times. The rate of sow-
ing was 141 b. per acre, with
1321 b. of superphosphate. The
“round” seeds from the base
of cobs were used —previously
these were often discarded—
and drills were spaced 2ft.
lHin., with two plants every,
17in. in the drill.
Burgess claims that GM2II
is a dual-purpose maize.- It
has a heavy stalk and is useful
for ensilage. Its strong
rooting-system stops the stalk
from blowing over easily, and
the cob is completely covered
by husk.
J. W. Boyle, of the N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture,
said the crop grown by Bur-
gess was almost perfect and
particularly free from weeds
and disease.
A "Best Bui!"
“R.”: In the recent Royal
Highland Show at Ayr (Scot-
land) the award fdr the best
bull went to the Shorthorn
Calrossie Triumphant, who
sired Phopacy Orion, imported
to Australia by A. and J. A.
Coutts, of Stranraer, Woolort
(Vic.), in December, 1957, and
also Phopacy Outward Bound,
imported by 1.C.1.A.N.Z., Ltd.,
of Mt. Derrimut, Deer Park
(Vic.), last April.
The judge, John Barnes,
Cumberland (Eng.) breeder,
said of Triumphant: “You just
could not pass over him, for
he was a bull that any breeder
would like to look at.”
Triumphant, bred in the herd
owned by John and D. P. Mac-
Gillivray, was sired by Cal-
rossie Welcome, whose influ-
ence in the breed has been
world-wide. Welcome died a
few months back.
t 7
Worm Pests
“Mole”: This year young
cereal crops are being excep-
tionally severely attacked
underground by wireworms, as
well as on the surface by the
red-legged earth-mite. The
latter insects can be sprayed or
dusted, but it’s harder to get
at the underground workers.
Where crops have to be re-
sown because of wireworm
damage, seed should be treated
with lindane, or lindane-in-
super. should be spread at 2oz.
to the acre. If affected crops
do not need resowing, 7 per
cent. B.H.C. miscible-oil should
be sprayed at 2\ pints to the
acre.
Except for costly soil-
sterilisation, eelworms still have
the scientists beaten. They
affect barley less than wheat,
but to transfer wheatgrowing
areas to barley might just post-
pone the problem.
Overseas Reporf
“L.C.”: Back from visiting
Britain, Argentina, Brazil,
Uruguay and South Africa,
G. Stubbs, M.Agr.Sc., reckons
that husbandry of sheep and
cattle in Australia is generally
of a fairly high level on world
standards, but that we can still
learn a lot from other countries
He quotes insecticides for
pest-control and vaccines for
disease-control as examples.
Scientists in Britain have
developed a technique for test-
ing the effectiveness of fungi-
cides against mycotic derma-
titis, or lumpy wool, which is a
substantial problem in Aus-
tralia. Their effectiveness can
be assessed under a microscope
without lengthy field-trials, and
several hundred chemicals have
already been tested for their
value against this fungus
disease. These tests would
have taken many years in the
field.
Scientists in Britain haVe
also worked-out a test with
blowfly - maggots in the
laboratory to indicate how
effective new insecticides will
be against this pest in the field,
and to measure the developing
resistance of blowfly against
new insecticides. The first
blowfly-maggots shown to be
resistant to dieldrin in Australia
were sent over and tested there
by this technique.
South America, Stubbs says,
shows a great potential for live-
stock production. Under the
present economic set-up this
potential is not likely to be
achieved for many years:
“But we should get rid of the
idea that these places are just
spots on the map. Brazil alone ~
is larger than Australia, and
the standard of livestock-
raising on the top properties is
equal to anything we have
here.
“On one property there I
saw an Aberdeen Angus bull
which I thought had been
retired. Then I saw" a
magnificent line of 500
Aberdeen Angus cattle which
has been sired by this bull
through artificial insemination.
By using a bull to this extent
they can afford to pay to get
the best.
“The whole attitude to
disease-control is much more
energetic in Brazil. In one.
area where they were deter-
mined to wipe-out sheep-scab
they made all sheep-owners in
a whole county dip twice
because one flock in that
county had scab.”
Some South American
countries, Stubbs added, are
using organic phosphate insecti-
cides much more extensively in
tick-control than we are. This
could prove a valuable triai
of these insecticides, which are
only beginning to be used in
Australia.
In South Africa one of the
most outstanding develop-
ments is the use of urea-
molasses supplements to fortify
poor-quality feed. The mixture
Is used to treat corn-cobs after
the grain has been removed.
It is also sprayed directly oil
pasture grazed by livestock, or
even on conserved fodder. It
has been very useful in im-
proving poor-quality fodder to
provide a maintenance ration,
and can help carry cattle
through the poor part of the
year without loss in weight.
With sheep it has prevented
“break” in the wool due to
poor feeding.
South Africa has the
problem of growing resistance
by the sheep-blowfly to some
of the newer insecticides, and
it should pay to watch develop-
ments there. They also have
trouble with itch-mite, which
they call “Australian itch,” and
are working as hard as we are
to find a more efficient counter
to the pest.
Stubbs, who is technical
adviser in Queensland for


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
i Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,009,000
Offices:
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE, .
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
William Cooper and Nephews,
said that these other countries
looked to Australia for leader-
ship on sheep and woolgrow-
ing and are anxious to hear of
any new developments here:
“But we can also learn a lot
from them on the way they
are tackling similar livestock,
problems, and The sooner we
realise it, the better.”
When to Feed
“Baa”: One of the grazier's
greatest problems during a dry
spell is to know when to begin
hand-feeding. If fodder is put
out too early, relieving rains
may follow soon enough for
the sheep to come through
without any help, so valuable
reserves are often used un-
necessarily. If feeding is post-
poned too long, animals may
get so low in condition that it
costs more than they are worth
to bring them back to normal.
In “A.I.A.S. Journal”
drought-feeding expert Franklin
quotes his experience that sheep
in good condition can lose
about 40 per cent, of their
bodyweight before under-
nutrition brings heavy losses.
Provided food and condi-
tions are satisfactory, survivors
of such a “regime of under-
nutrition’’ will regain weight
quickly after the drought
breaks.
He does not approve of advice
which stampedes some graziers
into using their fodder too
soon and so forcing up fodder-
prices.
Beekeeping
“B-herd”: Research on bee-
behavior spotlights some
peculiar habits in pollen-
gathering. Casual examina-
tion of the pollen-loads on any
forager shows their habit of
working only one kind of
bloom at a time. As far as
is known no explanation has
been offered of how this
evolved ; yet without it no
crop of seed could throw true.
Not only do bees work a
single species they also
“zone” their territory in much
the same way as birds will
forage in a certain area and
claim the zone as their own,
or as snakes will occupy a
particular knoll: it recurs
throughout Nature.
Anyhow, bees have been
proved to toil in fixed areas,
so that one bee may be in
charge of one branch of, say,
a citrus-tree .and work this
branch day after day, visiting
the same flowers for its load.
In lucerne or other ground-
flora the bee would work an
area possibly the size of a
living-room. To the casual
eye it looks as if bees are
buzzing everywhere, but the
truth can be proved by mark-
ing the bees, and experts agree
on it.
From a pollination point of
view it is important to know
the fact. A vast field of
lucerne can be effectively
pollinated by evenly distribut-
ing bees throughout the whole
area,'instead of standing a yard
of them in one corner. The
experts recommend a colony
(one hivej every 300 ft. If this
is done, not a bloom vfill go
unvisited,: and similar practice
is warranted in the orchard.
Up to now crop-pollination
has been effected in this coun-
try, not- by the efforts of the
grower, but by the bee-herder
attempting merely to bring his
own mob up to gathering-
strength, rather than to quad-
ruple the seed or the fruit for
the grower. Weak hives
cannot pollinate effectively
(especially in early spring,
when most of the fruits come
into bloom), and it may be
this factor, plus inadequate
knowledge of pollen-gathering
behavior, that explains
grower-apathy.
About Pigs
“Joe”: It would be an
exaggeration to say anyone had
written a book that covered
everything the farmer needs to
know about any kind of live-
stock, but so far as such know-
ledge can be compressed into
one book of manageable size,
and put in language intelligible
to the average layman,
Bostock’s book on pigs will
probably do for many years to
come; or, if later research
makes additions necessary,
amended editions could be
brought out from Time to time.
F. Bostock’s Pig Husbandry
in-Australia (Jacaranda Press)
seems to have “done for pigs
what Belschner did for sheep
a few years back. It will
probably not have the same
reading-public,'since there are
more Australians interested in
sheep than there are in pigs,
but it has the same sort of
comprehensive framework, and
similar, - backed -to - the - hilt
scientific information; in one
respect —its plainness of lan-
guage —it. can even be called
superior to Belschner’s. The
fact that a 'comparison can be
made is, in any case, high
praise, for Belschner’s book was
very thorough indeed, and,’
despite its formidable scientific
metal, was an agricultural best-
seller.
F. Bostock is a top-line
expert. Head of the Queens-
land Department of Agri-
culture's pig-branch, he can
draw on very wide specialist
reading and observation and on
practical knowledge that in-
cludes control of experimental
farms in different climates—
no small advantage in an assess-
ment of the needs of farmers
rearing pigs under a wide
range of conditions.
The book is very well illus-
trated, and, with no loss of
scientific perspective, the 20
chapters are crammed with
information with a practical,
how-to-do-it emphasis; some
of this information had not
hitherto been published. The
chapter on feeding is particu-
larly valuable. Another
interesting feature is a complete
set of illustrations showing
dentition at various ages.
Sheep in New Guinea
“Daika Idau”: The 100
breeding-ewes mentioned in-B.
28/5/’5B as being imported to
improve the breeding-flock at
Nondugl (N.G.) arrived on
April 14 in wonderful condi-
tion, a donation by Sir Edward
Hallstrom, founder of Non-
dugl station.
They were obtained front
Kimo, Gundagai (N.S.W.), and
shipped to Madang (N.G.),
where they were trans-
ferred to aircraft and flown
to Minji in the Wahgi Valley
because the Nondugl airstrip
was closed for maintenance the
day before the expected arrival
of the sheep.
Native drovers, who have a
fine feeling for animals, walked
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(3/7/’58)
The coast and highlands of Queensland should receive
light to moderate rains during August, but rainfall will
probably be poor in the western areas. Moderate rains are
indicated in southern Queensland during September, but
good general rains are unlikely until December.
Reasonably good rains are indicated on the coast
between Port Macquarie and Jervis Bay, but the balance of
N.S.W. should have only light to moderate rains. Spring
rains are likely to' be patchy, with general rains in December.
Reasonably good rain should fall in a large part of
Victoria during August, but light to moderate rains are
indicated in the Mallee and northern division. Good rains
should continue in the southern half of Victoria and the
western division for the rest of the year.
_ Moderate to good rains are indicated in a large part of
South Australia during August, although the upper-north
and north interior are likely to have poor rainfall, with
light to moderate rains in the Murray Valley, i
Light to moderate rains are indicated in the south-west
and Eucla divisions of Western Australia during August,
but poor elsewhere. However, good rains are indicated
in the south-west and eastern goldfields areas during
September.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY
... Right in the
Business Centre
You’ll find the utmost in comfort
and convenience at The Hotel
Metropole. Conveniently situated
right in the heart of Sydney’s ‘‘West
End,” the Hotel Metropole is handy
to transport, offices and Sydney’s
smartest shops and theatres. Enjoy
superb, relaxed Comfort at the Hotel
Metropole on your next trip to
Sydney. Over 400 rooms, 85 with
private bathroom; luxurious ultra-
modern suites; friendly, efficient
room-service, day and night; superb
cellar and cuisine; magnificently
appointed dining room and six
banquet rooms —yes, the Hotel
Metropole - is truly THE place to
stay in Sydney!
THE HOTEL METROPOLE
Australia’s Most
Friendly Hotel
B 0522. Box 1601, G.P.O.
“Welcome back from jungle operations , Trimmer.”
over 16 miles from Minj to
Nondugl without incident or
accident. Only three of the
ewes died (of suffocation) in
the aircraft, which on the first
trip brought in 50 sheep. There
were no other fatalities..
W. B. Osborne, the Trust’s
secretary, with full co-opera-
tion from the airline officials,
is to be congratulated on the
success of the airlift.
The sheep are maintaining
their good condition, which has
been favorably commented on
by three Australian graziers,
one from South Australia and
two-from Queensland.
Lambs are due to drop early
in July, and it is hoped that
these lambs, with the pick of
the present Nondugl lamb-
drop. will form the basis of a
sound commercial flock.
Ergot in Paspaium
“Moy”: Over the past few
months many cattle in s.-e.
Queensland have been
poisoned by ergot on the seed-
heads of paspaium. Affected
animals rarely die, but they
lose weight quickly, the milk-
flow in dairy-cows is seriously
reduced, and abortions are
common.
Symptoms are continuous
|-trembling of the muscles and
j jerky, awkward movements.
I Slight attacks may clear-up in
a few hours, but a severe case
J’vill often last several days.
! There is no treatment, but
affected stock should be taken"
from the pastures as soon as
the symptoms are noticed.
Rest and a change to good
food will quickly have them
back to normal.
Ergot is caused by a fungus
( Claviceps paspali ) which
grows between the glumes on
the heads. A dark, sticky
exudate oozes out of the
developing seed, and this con-
tains millions of spores of the
fungus. These are spread by
insects, and by adhering to
clothing, animals’ legs, farm
implements and the like. After
a few days the gummy matrix
begins to harden; it’s then
there’s most danger of
poisoning.
Silage Mixture
“F.”: A mixed planting of
sweet-sorghum and velvet-
beans has proved a good silage-
crop at the Biloela Experiment
Station (Q.).
The planting yielded about
18 tons to the acre. Sown at
the beginning of February after
late summer rains, the crop
was ready for harvesting early
in May. The sowing-rate was
41b. of sorghum-seed and
201 b. of velvet-beans to the
acre.
The crop was planted in
rows 3ft. 6in. apart, and as the
two different seeds couldn't be
sown together with the avail-
able equipment separate drill-
plantings were made, seed being
placed in the same lines.
The crop was handled suc-
cessfully by a small forage-
harvester which had two of
the four chopping-blades
removed. Cost of producing
the silage ranged from £1 10s.
to £2 a ton.
Inclusion of the legume (of
the yield of 18 tons an acre,
over 2 tons would be velvet-
beans) naturally improves the
protein-content of the silage,
and also its palatability. Ten
acres yielding 18 tons an acre
will provide 101 b. of silage per
head per day for 400 beasts for
100 days.
Shoofin' War
“Kowloon”: War-time tech-
niques get results against foxes
and rabbits. The fox is him-
self cunning enough to combat
many of man’s more subtle
attacks, but, where everything
else has failed, a well-planned
shooting-campaign seems the
best way of at least keeping
him §o harassed that eventually
he’ll decide to move to a safer
and quieter locality.
Gases developed for war-
time purposes are being used
against rabbits. In stony
country, gelignite has been
successful in blasting cover
from the rodents, but the best
ally to myxomatosis seems' to
be “bombing” raids by light
aircraft, distributing poisoned
baits. This technique, success-
ful in New Zealand, might have
possibilities in many parts of
Australia, where the terrain
is unsuitable for other methods.
Stock Debits
“Magoo”: The net loss of
an animal from the flock or
herd is not measured merely in
the reduced number on the
tally-sheet. For instance, the
death of a high-producing
cow can, of course, be a far
more serious blow to produc-
tion than the loss of one with
a poor yield. Indeed the effect
of losing a good animal can
be felt for many years, because
the effectiveness of the culling-
programme depends largely on
the number of the “tops” that
can be kept. Retention of a
poor producer because of a
better cow’s death holds back
the improvement-programme.
As bloat and mastitis are
such common causes of losses
from dairy-herds, research-
workers should devote more
time to studying the effect of
natural resistance to both
conditions. Such an approach
—to the control of bloat
especially—might be a‘ better
answer to the problem than
the current “cures,” which vary
from poking a fistful of mud
behind a cow’s tongue to
spreading oil on troubled
pastures.
A pointer to the possibility
of resistance to bloat is the
fact that well-established herds
can apparently graze pastures
which are deadly to new herds.
It is common knowledge that
bloat is a greater problem on
pastures in newer districts than
old.
Farm Hints
“Boone”: Don’t wait till
summer to stop erosion on
that piece of soil. Do your best
to cover it with a crop or
pasture. If this fails, spread
manure, straw, bushes, or even
an old carcass, on the trouble-
spot.
“Wyum”: Fowls eat more
when they get all-the-day-
round lighting instead of only
14 hours of light, according
to an experiment which is still
in progress. So far, heavy
breeds have benefited most.


Women's Letters
The Royale Ballroom was gaily
decorated with huge clusters of blue and
yellow balloons for the Navy League
Ball, which was attended by the
Governor and Lady Brooks. Fifty Navy
League cadets formed a guard-of-honor
for the vice-regal party. A large por-
trait of the Queen, flanked by Australian
flags, hung at the back of the official
table.
Lady Brooks wore a charming tur-
quoise-blue satin gown cut on Princess-
lines. Guests were received by Navy
League president Capt. A. M. Boulton
and Mrs. Boulton, and ball-committee
chairman Mrs. Arthur Laver and her
husband. The Lady Mayoress, Mrs.
F. W. Thomas, wore a gown of misty-
blue delustred satin which featured a
draped skirt. Vice-Admiral Sir Roy
Dowling was with Lady Dowling. Mrs.
J. Plun.kett-Cole wore a slim gown of
pale-champagne pleated-chiffon. Mrs.
Eric Parton’s sequin-trimmed gown was.
of delphinium-blue chiffon. Mrs. Victor
Lamb (wife of Capt. Lamb, R.N., who
is on loan to the R.A.N.) wore hyacinth-
blue satin. Their daughter Vivien, who
was with them, returns to England
shortly, and will do an Arts course at
London University.
it it it
This Letter has seldom heard a speech
to equal that made by a charming Ameri-
can, Mrs. Mark Clements, when she wel-
comed the Governor and Lady Brooks
to a preview of replicas of the Crown
Jewels. In it she stressed the “warm
friendship which exists between my
country, Australia and the Mother
country.” Mrs. Clements headed the
organising committee, which included
Mrs. R. Chaney, Mrs. Tom Blarney, Mrs.
E. K. Smart, Mrs. G. Osborne and
Carmen Winter.
Among the guests who enjoyed the
champagne and chicken-sandwiches at
the Australian - American Association
Women’s Group Centre were Mrs. R. G.
Casey (chairman of the A.-A.A. Women’s
Group) and Mrs. Sidney Baillieu Myer
(chairman of the Women’s Group of the
Cancer Campaign). Mr. Angus Jones,
who was accompanied by his wife, repre-
sented the council of the A.-A.A. The
funds of the Cancer Campaign benefited
from the preview.
Prettiest hat at the party was worn by
Mrs. Clements. It was a tiny Mary Queen
of Scots bonnet of black velvet edged with
diamente to match the cuffs of her black
gloves. Among the guests were Sir
Frank and Lady Selleck, Mr. and Mrs.
W. K. Burnside, U.S. Consul-General
Graham Hall and Mrs. Hall, Professor
Sir Arthur Amies and Lady Amies, Mrs.
Wesley Ince, Cr. and Mrs. Maurice
Nathan, Mrs. Liel Pizzey, Mr. and Mrs.
Jeff Macartney, - Dr. and Mrs. James
Buchanan, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Lane
and Mr. and Mrs. Robin Hood. Mr.
Richard Hennessey, who helped in making
the replicas which Queen Elizabeth wore
at rehearsals for her Coronation, gave a
brief history of many of the Crown
Jewels in the exhibition.
Dorothy Bradley has appeared in many
plays produced by the Melbourne Uni-
versity Drama Club and the Marlowe
Society. She had the leading role in
“Escapade” at the Little Theatre and was
in the same theatre’s revue “Little By
Little.” Currently she is in “Man Alive,”
a farce by John Dighton, which opened
at the Little Theatre on July 12. Dorothy,
who is married to Joe Bradley, is a keen
gardener in her spare time .
Guests-of-honor at a luncheon arranged
by members of the Young Contingent of
the Victoria League were Robert Help-
mann and members of the cast of “Nude
With Violin”: Bettina Welch, Pamela
Greenall, Marjorie Holt, Edward Bray-
shaw and Alastair Roberts. They were
received by the president of the Y.C.,
Pamela Middleton, in the league club-
rooms, which were decorated with
japonica, red berries and autumn leaves.
Attending the luncheon were the senior
vice-president of the league, Mrs. Guy
Bakewell, and Mr. Bakewell, Mrs. Robert
Hamilton, Mrs. Eric Ross, Mrs. Frank
May, Mrs. Vic Nilsen, Mrs. Humphrey
Clegg, Captain G. Farnfield (of the U.K.
Liaison Staff), Charles Dearden (of
J.C.W.), Marion McPherson, Marjorie
Tatnall, Margaret Herring, Joan Duckett
and Elizabeth Guthridge.
it it it
When the Cancer Campaign closes at
the end of this month the Women’s Group
will have cause to be proud of their
efforts. At a meeting of the committee in
the Town Hall the hon. treasurer (Mrs.
Colin Clark) revealed that approximately
£83,000 is in hand, with more to come.
Mrs. Sidney Baillieu Myer presided at
this meeting, and the Premier’s wife, Mrs.
Henry Bolte (who is on the executive),
was present. Central and the Main Trunks
Telephone Exchange, through their repre-
sentatives Miss K. Hester and Miss Anne
Douglas, have promised a cheque for
£2300; from the Myer Women’s Associa-
tion came a gift of £1200; Mrs. Neil
Randall handed in a cheque for £550,
the proceeds from her Teen-and-Twenty
dinner-dance. There was £315 from a
gift-party arranged by Mrs. S. Boanas;
a cookery-demonstration series arranged
by Mrs. Anne Mason netted £276 ; over
£5OOO came from a card-party and art-
exhibition arranged by Dame Mary Daly;
the Louis XIV dinner at Menzies’,
organised by Lady Selleck, yielded £3706;
the Lady Mayoress’s card-party, £2767;
and Mrs. E. B. Coles, convenor of the
successful Fair, handed-over £5723.
☆ ☆ ☆
Junior Legacy funds will benefit from
the gala dinner and premiere of the
Berlin Fashion Parades held in the Myer
Mural Hall and attended by Lady
Brooks, who wore a cream and gold
satin-brocade gown with white Arctic-
furs. The stage-setting and backdrop
presented a delightful scene of early
spring in Germany.
Lady. Brooks was accompanied by Mr.
and Mrs. John Buckland. With Minister
for Labor Harold Holt was Mrs. Holt,
whose white gown shimmered with silver
sequins. German Charge d’Affaires Dr.
Otto 'Burchard and Mrs. Burchard, and
German Consul Dr. W. Sarrazin and
Mrs. Sarrazin were present. The Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs.
F. W. Thomas), Junior Legacy president
Mr. R. C. Allison and Mrs. Allison,
Transport Minister Sir Arthur Warner
and Lady Warner, were also at the official
table.
CANBERRA
Mrs. Nan Chauncy, of Chauncy Vale,
Tasmania, authoress of Tiger in the Bush
(this year’s Children’s Book of the Year)
was guest-of-honor at the Childrens
Book Week exhibition arranged by the
newly formed Children’s Book Council
of Canberra headed by Mrs. L. Rees.
The National Librarian, Mr. H. L-
White, officially opened the well-planned
display in the Canberra Art Clubs
gallery at Riverside. Vivacious Nan
Chauncy said Chauncy Vale has always
been a delight to children; when h er
father migrated to Tasmania from Eng-
land the valleys and caves near their new
home provided adventure for his six
young children, and animals became their
very special friends. Many of these have
found their way into her books. Chauncy
Vale is a sanctuary for all wild things*
and her pet wombat Rastus lives beneath
the house. Mrs. Chauncy has called her
next book (to be published shortly)


Devil's Hill, and children will meet more
than one Tasmanian Devil in its pages.
On display were the original sketches
by Margaret Horder, illustrator of Tiger
in the Bush, also the second award-win-
ning book Pacific Peoples, written by Mrs.
Lyndsay Gardiner, who said she felt the
clever illustrations by artist Nancy Parker
added to the appeal of her book. The
Picture Book of the Year, Piccaninny
Walkabout, by Axel Poignant, drew in-
terest. Children's books from 12 coun-
tries and some interesting scrap-paper
posters done by children of post-war
Japan were among the displays.
☆ ☆ ☆
When temperatures around 20 degrees
lower our spirits, make-up can be a
great morale-builder. The do-it-yourself
beauty-treatment schools conducted by
Elinor Christensen, of Helena Rubinstein,
in co-operation with Roberts Pharmacy,
were very popular. Proceeds of the
schools went to the A.C.T. branch of
Red Cross.
SYDNEY
There has been quite a spate lately of
“Closing Down” sales in small city shops.
The sales go on for an unconscionably
long time, the stock dwindling slowly ;
then the shops retire modestly behind a
barricade, from which they emerge con-
siderably later transformed into a smart
bank, espresso coffee-bar or insurance
company, complete with modern decor
and a castor-oil plant in the window
(sometimes an aspidistra).
At the same time, multi-story glass
buildings increase in number and the
overhead roadway to the Bridge is decor-
ated with fluorescent lights in quite a
modern manner. The city is certainly
being refurbished.
However, along with these improve-
ments to the city is growing a general
reluctance to visit it. The old pastime of
“going into town and doing a bit of
window-shopping” is fast fading-out.
Fares are a big consideration in this,
along with the difficulties of transport and
the lack of parking-space. The tendency
at present is to “shop locally” and seek
one’s entertainment close to home. . If
this continues we may find Sydney a city
beautiful (or, at least, modern) build-
ings and nobody to look at them. It will
stand in a state of beautiful isolation.
These remarks are prompted by the
difficulty of parking near the Conserva-
torium last Saturday night, when the
Gilbert and Sullivan Society put on “The
Pirates of Penzance.” The attitude of
the Police Department seems to be to con-
centrate on telling people where they
cannot park, but they give no guidance
as to where they can. It is discouraging
even to the most ardent citygoer, as this
Fetter is, but it will be no triumph for
officialdom if people stop going to town.
|t is the people who bring the buildings
to life. Without them the city is dead.
The Corn's “Pirates of Penzance” was
a very creditable performance, produced
by Evelyn Gardiner in her knowledgeable
way. Noted that Mary Blake has joined
the society and acquitted herself with
honors as Ruth, while Lillian Jenkinson
sang “Poor Wandering One” delightfully.
The company was obviously prepared, in
the G. & S. manner, to give encores for
most of the numbers, and seemed a bit
nonplussed when at the close of the mock-
heroic invocation, “Hail Poetry,” the
audience was too overawed to clap. The
cast held out its arms to the audience.
The audience looked back in admiration ;
then, realising what was expected of
them, applauded, whereat the company
obliged with an encore. It was all part
of an enjoyable and well-presented per-
formance.
Jacqueline Molyneux, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. W. H. Molyneux, of Killara,
will marry Galfrid Melville, son of Sir
Leslie Melville and Lady Melville, at St.
Martin's Church, Killara, early in
November. (Sir Leslie is, of course,
Vice - Chancellor of the Australian
National University, Canberra.) The
reception will be held at the Woollahra
Golf Club, and the young couple will
make their home in North Sydney. Photo
by Norton Trevaire.
Sydney’s amateur theatre groups in-
crease daily, the latest being the Hunting-
ton Players. A non-profit group entirely
dedicated to working for charity, they
would be glad to contact any committee
wishing to raise funds for a charitable
organisation, and they stress any time, any
place. The group is under the direction
of Mrs. Roberta Hunt, that well-
experienced actress whom Sydney has
seen in many J. C. W. productions.
The group’s first production was the
comedy-drama in three acts “Night of
January 16,” an exciting battle of the
law-courts in which the audience act as
jurors. April Byatt was the accused and
Muriel Hopkins the wife of the mur-
dered man. Diana Litchfield gave a
smart performance as a gangster’s wife,
and Nancy Foxley turned in an excel-
lent little sketch as a handwriting expert.
Apart from a slight tendency to overact
the comic parts, and to overdress them,
the production provided a good night’s
entertainment which can be recommended
to any committee looking for a new
means of raising money.
☆ ☆ ☆
The theme of the camellia show at
David Jones’ Gallery this week was
“camellias for a party,” and there were
some very charming settings shown. Paul
Jones’s cornucopia, composed of white
paper-petals, spilled out a cluster of
Prince Frederick William camellias. Mrs.
Hanne Fairfax arranged a white summer
hammock in a grove of white camellias
for the centrepiece, and Lady Lloyd
Jones set a charming table in red and
white. Mrs. Gregory Blaxland was the
organiser of the show, which was in aid
of the Bush Book Club.
r 'By the way, Miss Barbara Knox, who
is president of the Bush Book Club, says
that the club needs new supplies of light
fiction, westerns, thrillers and crime-
stories. Although the Bush Book Club
will cease operation next April it is going
strong this year.
* # V
Comic sketches on opera are to be a
feature of the Gala Ball which the Sydney
Opera Group is to hold at the Rainbow
Room, Hotel Australia, on Thursday,
July 24. The ball is being organised to
raise funds for the production early next
year of Benjamin Britten's opera "Albert
Herring,” for which rehearsals are already
under way.
☆ ☆ ☆
In “A Tribute to Mary Grant Bruce”
which comes from Mrs. Mary Walker,
of Traralgon, Gippsland (Vic.), the
nostalgic memories of many an Aus-
tralian woman are expressed:
Mary Grant Bruce, writer of the Billabong
books, who died recently in Sussex (Eng.),
will be mourned by many friends, but by none
more sincerely than by those women, now
in their titties, who were contemporaries of
“Norah.” We grew up with Norah, from
her first appearance as A Little Bush Maid in
1910. She was so much more than a character
in the pages of a book—she was Us , as we
liked to fancy ourselves in supreme moments
of idealism.
Mary Grant Bruce had a lot to answer for.
She and Norah did more to mould our charac-
ters than home and church, State and school
combined. More than to birthday or to
Christmas we looked forward each year to
the spring-publication of the next Norah book,
and felt a little cheated when M.G.B. some-
times broke the sequence and chose a topic
other than Billabong. Like Norah, many of us
were Little Bush Maids. We dressed as Norah
did (see McFaifene's illustrations) in neat, blue
divided skirts and short white coats, not for-
getting a starched collar that sawed at our
ears, and, with Norah, we graduated to breeches
and’leggings and later to jodhpurs.
They were not our station-brcds we
mustered, but the Billabong Shorthorns. We
were proud of our bearded fathers, regarding
them as counterparts of David Linton. We
would have relished a Black Billy as a stock-
man, although, speaking personally, we had
a friend in the kitchen as good as Brownie
and an Irishman as loyal to us as Murty had
been to the Lintons.
To me, A Little Bush Maid, Mates at
Billabong and Norah of Billabong still remain
as the cream of M.G.B.’s output. They were
never surpassed. Vale, Mary Grant Biuce, bu
you have left us Norah!


to leave. Chris, he said, was
coming along to farewell us.
Chris came! He brought with
him the huge bag in which he
usually carried his books,
packed now with as many
bottles of beer as he could
squeeze into it.
And there he sat, and drank,
and talked, and sang, till one-
o’clock in the morning. It was
characteristic of him that,
although his brother and 1
were, despite our hard training
in camp, wellnigh exhausted at
the end of this long session,
Chris floated away intact.
Philip Brennan, I am glad to
say, came back from the war
unscathed.
YI7TIEN I returned in 1919
1 found that the Conv-
pliques’ lunch-club was in full
swing, meeting every Friday
at Paris House, in Phillip
Street; the proprietor at that
time was a Belgian named
Lievain.
Brennan had formerly been
a member of a similar group,
the Casuals, where he and
Brereton were two of the
brightest stars. But during the
war he had fallen out with
Brereton ; and sometimes at
Paris House the conversation
turned on their disagreement.
Brennan asserted that Brereton
had shown signs of pacifism ;
and from there he went on to
spin a web of apocryphal sins
around him: he was a wowser,
he was an anti-alcoholic, and
so on. But somehow I felt that
with these extravagant diatribes
he was only covering up a sense
of loss.
Pontifical though he was at
the Friday gatherings, he was
always a boon companion, and
did not expect to be treated
ceremoniously, even by former
students. Soon after I joined
the group I wrote to him about
some minor matter ; and, still
having much respect for
hierarchies, I addressed him in
this letter as “Doctissime
Magister” or something of the
sort. Happening to arrive early
at Paris House on the follow-
ing Friday I found him alone
at the table—“ Look here,” he
said, flourishing my letter, “I’m
no man’s master. Let it be
Brennan and Chisholm between
us.”
None that I knew ever
addressed him as “Professor,”
except the waitresses ; though
Mrs. Brennan used to refer to
him as “the Professor” even
before he was made an
associate professor. She was
greatly impressed by his learn-
ing. They always spoke
German together ; and she said
to me one day: “You know, I
cannot always understand the
Professor. He knows too many
strange words.”
'Towards the end of 1919
the Modern Language
Association decided to launch
a quarterly, the “Modern Lan-
guage Review of New South
Wales,” and asked me to edit
it. Brennan was most
enthusiastic, and promised me
an article on German Roman-
ticism for the first issue. He
Chris Brennan when he
was (as then described in
THE BULLETIN ) “ Professor,
Poet, Scholar, Bohemian
and, above all, Table-
talker.”
kept on postponing this until
the last moment, when he came
along to the Friday lunch with
a manuscript that he had pre-
pared a long while before for
circulation among his students.
This did not, however, indi-
cate flagging enthusiasm. It
merely meant that he found it
difficult to write to order.
After that all his contributions
were voluntary, and I received
them well ahead of schedule.
His proofs were meticu-
lously corrected, with a clarity
that must have delighted the
printers. But they were no
doubt rather startled by the
request on a strip of paper
inserted in a text which he sent
in with one of his articles:
“Printer, please entreat this
book with kindness.” Entreat
for treat is, of course, correct,
but decidedly archaic.
Brennan had a fancy for
archaisms, and sprinkled them
freely through his conversa-
tion and his writing. In French
he would often come out with
a phrase that belonged to the
language of the 17th century;
and in German he frequently
fell back on 18th-century
expressions such as despektier-
licherweise. It was partly, I
think, because he had moved so
much among older language
forms ; he could, for example,
write verse in Middle High
German, and transpose eccle-
siastical into classical Latin, or
vice versa.
Editing that short-lived
review gave me a new insight
into the strained relations be-
tween Brennan and Brereton.
The latter was an extremely
sensitive man. One day he
approached a mutual friend,
and said that he had something
for the “Modern Language
Review,” but did not like send-
ing it to me, because he knew I
was a close friend of Brennan’s
and he was thus afraid I might
not accept it!
Naturally, I wrote to
Brereton at once, telling him
that I would be greatly helped
and honored if I could have
something from him for the
next issue ; and he sent me an
excellent article. Years after-
wards, those two strange,
clever, sensitive men were
reconciled ; and Brereton spoke
very movingly about Brennan
when the latter died.
Throughout 1920 I spent
a great deal of time in
Brennan’s company, both at
the Friday lunches and at
smaller gatherings. Already
estranged from his wife, though
the drastic break was yet to
come, he was lonely ; and it
was during that period that I
saw most clearly into his
troubled souk At times he was
almost like a misunderstood
child ; but these moods were
quickly banished by his native
loquacity and his all-consum-
ing love of discussion.
These many convivial meet-
ings did not mean that the old
fire was dying down, that*he
was becoming lazy. His
capacity for work was amazing.
Every Friday we discovered
that during the week he had
read, annotated and reflected
on many books. Moreover, as
if to keep his mind supple, he
read quite a lot of inferior stuff
in addition to his serious
pabulum. Each Friday he
took down to Newport for the
weekend several light French
novels, and read them at odd
moments.
He naturally had a theory
about this light reading. He
said it was a purgative, and that
it helped to clear his mind after
a week’s hard work. Salts
were not food, he remarked,
but they cleansed the stomach
so that it might better enjoy
good food.
Whether the theory was
right or wrong (probably it was
right), another brilliant man
who frequented the Paris House
club subscribed to it. Jordan
(“Jorky”), then a busy and
highly successful equity
barrister, read widely and
deeply in two or three
languages. But he still found
time to read what he called
pleasant muck, maintaining
that it kept him human.
This same Jorky, who after-
wards became Chief Justice of
New South Wales and acquired
the more dignified appellation
of Sir Frederick Jordan, used
to take us all occasionally to
the upstairs dining-room at
Paris House, which was much
more expensive than the
ground-floor room where the
Compliques met, and give us
a sumptuous lunch. He was a
quiet, rather shy man, for
whose talents and personality
Brennan had great respect.
T>ut it is time to put an end
to these anecdotes, which
reveal only some facets of
Brennan, and which could too
easily add to the Brennan
legend, already too big. Just as
in the case of Rimbaud, where
too much attention has been
given to his wanderings and
adventures, at the expense of
his poetry, there is a tempta-
tion to expatiate on Brennan’s
conversational powers. Per-
haps we even talk too much
about his scholarship, which
was immense and almost
unique, but which was none
the less only part of his equip-
ment ; a means of enlarging the
inner world where he was for
ever seeking his lost Eden.
In fact I sometimes doubt
whether my many conversa-
tions with Brennan, which
were, of course, tremendously
stimulating to me, gave me as
much insight into his depths as
1 obtained in 1955, long after
he died. John Quinn’s death
(late in 1954) threw upon me
the whole burden of shaping
and completing the collected
edition of Brennan’s works that
we had undertaken together,
and compelled me to survey


Between
Ourselves
&
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week.
alone the distant reaches of the
poet’s mind.
I discovered new territories.
None of the brilliant boutades
that we had heard at Paris
House and elsewhere were as
revealing as, for example, the
close examination of the three
manuscript volumes in* the
Fisher Library which I have
called, in the collected edition,
FL.I, FL.2, and FL.3.
In these I saw how closely
Brennan’s methods in scholar-
ship were linked with his long
poetic quest. One finds here
a multitude of variants for
many of his most significant
poems; early texts painstak-
ingly over - written ; whole
passages recast, and every-
thing written in his beautifully
neat script, without heavy
down-strokes, and with italics
sometimes indicated by a back-
ward slope of the letters.
Moreover, at the side there
is occasionally a list of words,
recording his search for a
rhyme that would be adequate,
appropriate and really signifi-
cant. Everything seems to
indicate that his devotion to
what classical scholars call
textual criticism had here been
transformed into self-criticism
and poetic discipline.
That does not suffice, in
itself, to make a great poet:
anyone can take pains, whether
he has real talent or not, and
a collector of matchboxes can
be passionately industrious.
But Brennan was not a mere
scholar-poet, though some of
the pieces in the earlier section
of Poems 1913 smell a little too
strongly of midnight oil. The
fact is that he was a great
scholar and a great poet.
And in those three manu-
script volumes, what is more
important than the scorings-out
and alterations, more important
than the variants and the
search for textual perfection,
is the vision shining through
the words: the poetic revela-
tion out of which grew “Lilith,”
and the whole “Forest of
Night,” and the “Burden of
Tyre.” However much he
altered the phrasing or the
rhymes or the individual words,
neither the first nor the last
form of the text is so revealing
as the secret hidden beneath
this tormented surface; the
pure poetry that inspired the
labor and gave it its real value,
like the water-wave that attests
the quality of the paper hous-
ing it.
As I see him now, twenty-five
years after his death,
Brennan was a man of genius,
With a naturally deep insight
into reality and an innate desire
to increase this depth.
Such a desire made of him
an indefatigable and insatiate
scholar; but his native insight
led him further than scholar-
ship alone could have taken
him ; into a Reality that lies
beyond realities.
Yet it was an uncomfortable
and even a desolate reality; a
place where bitter winds were
blowing, and life seemed a
poor, intermittent flame;
where he could not find the
comforting finality that he had
known as a boy; where the
God of his fathers was visible
no more, and nothing remained
but to replace Him by a dream,
knowing that the dream was
imposed by a sense of meta-
physical misery ; that it was in-
escapable and unsatisfying.
, It seems to me that
all I have just said is
compressed into a few
lines of one of “The
Wanderer” poems begin-
ning “Come out, come
out, ye souls that serve,”
which is one of the
greatest and most terrible of
all Brennan’s writings;
For this is the hard doom that
is laid on all of you,
to be that whereof ye dream,
dreaming against your
will.
But first ye must travel the
many ways, and your
close-wrapt souls
must be biown thro’ with the
rain that comes from the
homeless dark.
His scholarship was un-
doubtedly relevant to his
poetry, and enlarged his poetic
imagination. On the classical
side, Greek tragedy, with its
sense of doom, probably helps
to explain some of the more
sombre passages in “The
Wanderer”; and Lucretius
must have confirmed in him
the feeling that the world was
empty of any divine presence.
German thinkers and poets
made a generous contribution
also to his intellectual equip-
ment. Nietzsche, for example,
confirmed his sense of cosmic
emptiness ; Nietzsche, who saw
an Abgrund, an awful abyss,
beneath the surface of Greek
“serenity”; Nietzsche, for
whom Brennan avowed his
admiration, and of whom he
said during the war, when
fools were rushing in to blame
the German poet-philosopher
for the conflict, that he would
not allow his name to be
dragged in the dust. .
That he was steeped in the
philosophy of Schopenhauer
was made quite clear on the
day (in 1920) when he delivered
an address at • the Teachers’
College on “The Dilemma of
Absolute Music.” And
Schopenhauer, like Brennan,
could see no real meaning in
the cosmos, nothing but a
dream of the Cosmic Will • the
J. Le Gay Brereton when
he was English Professor
at Sydney University.
latter being no more than an
unfragmented energy, dreaming
itself into a specious reality
which we call the Creation.
Even the idealism of the
German Romantics could do
little to refute Brennan’s idea
that the world was void. It is
all very well for Novalis to
talk about the blaue Blume, the
Eden that lies behind the
crudities and the cruelties of
existence: his Eden is none
the less a void, where meaning
disappears, and shapes are
dimmed, and nothing remains
but the indivisible beauty of
Night—a thought that pervades
Brennan’s “Lilith” and possibly
explains the title of “The
Forest of Night.”
Add to these and many
similar literary “sources” (a
misleading word, which
suggests plagiarism, whereas a
“source” is more often a con-
firmation than a starting-point)
the uncompromising idealism
of Mallarme, and it becomes
obvious that the task of writing
a really definitive book on
Brennan would necessitate un-
ending researches in the
literature of several countries
and of many different centuries.
Let me add only this
“source” for the moment: vast
as his other literary interests
were, Brennan gave more
attention to Mallarme, I am
sure, than to any other writer.
He seemed to know him as
intimately as if he had lived
with him, or conversed with
him often ; whereas we know
tnat the two poets had never
met, and had only exchanged a
couple of brief letters. This is
the more surprising in that few
people in Brennan’s time, even
in Europe, knew much about
Maltarme’s life. Kurt Wais’s
book, a mixture of sound docu-
mentation and interpretative
errors, had not yet been
written ; and Henri Mondor's
monumental Vie de Mallarme
appeared many years after
Brennan’s de*ath.
Tn conclusion, I would say
that the Brennan who
animated the Paris House
gatherings; the brilliant talker;
the boon companion ; the spell-
binder ; the seeming immora-
list; the man who wrecked his
own life all these were
external to the soul that lost'
Eden and sought it in vain.
They were as external, and
ultimately as irrelevant, as the
close-bitten fingernails that at
first repelled me, or the bur-
gundy that Brennan drank too
freely.
That is why I retain so vivid
and poignant a memory of him.
On two or three occasions—-
only, two or three —when we
were alone and the banter
ceased, I saw into the inner
depths of his soul, and the
vision remained with me. The
telegram that he sent in
1914 asked me to save the
remnants of his reason. Now,
forty-four years later, I am
beginning to realise that what
I can see is not the remnants,
but the totality and amplitude,
of his unreason.
And that is a great, a beauti-
ful, and a terrible thing.


Stanislaus never admits, have been
grief that made his father talk like that.
And it is also possible, as one must
always suspect when the witness is so
hostile and emotional, that it didn’t
happen quite in the way he says.
The point is. whichever way you
interpret it, Stanislaus is a most curious
and interesting character and has
written a fascinating book. If, as is
likely enough, one of his- greatest griefs
in life was that he could never be
known as anything except “Janies
Joyce’s brother”, he has now memor-
ably, and with a stubborn, bitter
dignity, established himself as Stani-
slaus.
A Beckett Novel
It is always tempting to preface any
remarks about Samuel Beckett with
the information that he is an Irishman
who lives in Paris and writes in French,
that he was once James Joyce’s secre-
tary, and that he wrote “Waiting for
Godot,” which has lately been confus-
ing Sydney playgoers.
Not that these facts are new: they
are simply a convenient way of indi-
cating that Beckett is an unusual
writer. Malone Dies (Calder), a novel
translated by the author, is narrated
by an old man who has recently found
himself bedridden and dying in a small,
strange room. He doesn’t know how
he got there, or where it is, or who
owns it. Every day a bowl of soup
is placed on a trolly just inside his
door, and he hooks it over to his bed-
side with a stick, eats it and shoves
the trolly back, together with his full
chamber-pot, which is returned empty
with the next meal; but he never sees
more than the arm of his attendant
reaching through the door.
He has an exercise-book and a
pencil, and he sets out to tell, before he
dies, four stories—one each about a
man, a woman, a thing (probably a
stone) and an animal (probably a bird)
—and to make an inventory of his
possessions.
“It does not matter if I do not
finish,” he writes; and this soon
becomes obvious. He begins the stories,
but keeps breaking in on them with
digressions about life in general,
memories of his childhood, minute
descriptions of the geography of his
room and what can be seen from its
window, and of his changing states of
mind and body.
The stories are plotless, fragmentary
and disconnected. The characters move
purposelessly from the most banal to
the most fantastic situations. Some-
times scenes and actions apparently
without significance are described with
an obsessive attention to detail, only
to be broken off and left hanging in
the reader’s mind. Finally, old Malone
trails off and dies, just after the hero
of .his main “story” has been killed
with a hatchet by a maniac during a
macabre picnic-party from the lunatic-
asylum where he has for some time
been inexplicably confined.
At first one is inclined to dismiss it
all as a grand play to the espresso-bar
gallery, and to discount the high quality
of the writing as sheer virtuosity with-
out meaning. This would be very
wrong. Throughout the book there are
moments of great beauty, comedy,
tenderness, ribaldry and pathos; even
the obscure passages have a strange
singing quality and a strong smell of
life. -So that'when you have finished
the book, though you may not “under-
stand” it in the sense of being able to
paraphrase its meaning, you feel that
it has managed to convey, through its
very distortions and excesses, a great
deal of common human experience.
Many playgoers got a similar impres-
sion from “Godot.”
Take, for example. Malone’s ironic
remarks after his stick—his most valu-
able possession—has slipped out of his
bed and rolled out of reach: —
The stick, having slipped, would
have plucked me from my bed if I
had not let it go. It would of course
have been better for me to have
relinquished my bed than to lose my
stick. But I had not time to think.
The fear of falling is the source of
many a f011y... .1 suppose the wisest
thing now is to live it over again,
meditate upon it and be edified....
Now that I have lost my stick I
realise what it is I have lost and all
it meant to me. And thence ascend,
painfully, to an understanding of the
Stick, shorn of all its accidents, such
as I had never dreamt of. What a
broadening of the mind. So that I
half discern, in the veritable cata-
strophe that has befallen me, a
blessing in disguise. How com-
forting that is To know that
you can do better next time,
unrecognisably better, and that there
is no next time, and that it is a
blessing there is not, there is a thought
to be going on with. I thought I was
turning my stick to the best pos-
sible account, like a monkey scratch-
ing its fleas with the key that opens
its cage . . .
Here and there, especially in the
comically minute descriptions of objects
and simple actions, one hears faint
echoes of the later Joyce; and, in the
tortured symbolism of some of the
story-fragments, stronger echoes of
Kafka. But the book as a whole has
little relationship with either of these
writers. One is reminded, rather, of
the total, hand-wringing passivity that
George Orwell analysed in “Inside the
Whale,” through the early works of
Henry Miller, and described as the
attitude that “any sensitive novelist is
now [since the collapse of the founda-
tions of Western morality] likely to
adopt.”
John Abernethy.
"Snowball"
Gavin Casey’s Snowball (Angus and
Robertson) is a novel about a family
of mixed-blood aborigines living, in
some unspecified outback town, be-
tween two worlds: the native settle-
ment, from which old Snowball’s
exploits as a blacktracker and young
Jack Charles’s service in World War
II have won them release, and the town
itself, where the people regard them
with suspicion; some friendly, some
hostile, and most warily indifferent.
Most of the hostility comes from
Bridges, the secretary of the Road
Board, an official whose authority
would be mystifying to readers unaware
that in some parts of Australia he is
the equivalent of secretary to the Shire
Council. Most of the support comes
from Hickery, the idealistic school-
master, and his attractive junior, the
schoolmistress Lorrie Welch. An old
cattleman is on the aborigines’ side;
one clergyman is against them and
another for them; and the police-
sergeant is about in the middle.
The question is, shall the Charles
family be driven out of the town to the
native settlement? chiefly because
their two daughters .are no better than
they should be; partly because the
younger children, after the pattern of
Little Rock, have been admitted to the
white children’s Sunday-school; and in
the end because Benny Charles, the
boxer, tries to kiss a white waitress,
knocks her down when she insults him,
and is promptly accused of rape.
It is not wholly satisfactory as a
novel. It seems to drift along to its
climax rather than to move with cer-
tainty and tension.
The problem is posed from one side
only, that of sympathy for the mixed-
bloods, and the characters of their
opponents are drawn from stock. There
is no real attempt to account for the
Road Board secretary’s vindictiveness;
the brutal superintendent of the native
settlement would need much more care-
ful portrayal to be convincing; and the
hostile clergyman (Casey should re-
read his Trollope) is pure stage-parson.
And, partly as a result of the lack
of conviction in these characters, partly
because of the invariable use of the
term “niggers” for the aborigines and
the use of rape and a “nigger-hunt” for
the final dramatisation, the story g ives
a general impression of an Amencan
drama imposed on an Australian situa-
tion. *
Yet there are excellent scenes: ?
illicit love-making, of beer-partie
when the settlement-natives come
visit the mixed-bloods, of old Snowoa


lurking behind the woodheap at the pub
for his blackmarket plonk, of Jack
Charles making good at his job and
of Benny winning his fights. And all
the Charles family (who are, after all,
the reason for the book’s existence) are
convincingly alive: the girls quite
charming, the boys vigorous in their
contrasting characters, the older people
staunch and amusing.
Take it all round, it is a very readable
book, sympathetic and robust; and, if
it hasn’t the certainty of Casey’s best
short-stories, in its breadth and variety
it is the best attempt he has yet made
in the larger field of the novel.
Camps and Canoes
Laughter in the Camp (Warwick
Boyce, Sydney), a posthumous book
by John Fairfax, is partly a “private”
book put together by his family and
friends as a memorial to a gallant and
charming personality, partly a book of
light (or sometimes serious) essays for
the public.
It would probably have been better
tactics, since the book is offered for
public sale, to have omitted the
“private” material: stray notes and
jottings; some juvenilia; a few book-
reviews in which, however pleasant the
Anting, the books themselves are of
n ° great importance; and, particularly,
SOine light-hearted personalities which,
Appeared in the army-journals “Stand
j: a ?y” and “Ack Willie,” which John
airfax edited when he served in the
Armored Brigade.
All of these have some interest as
reflections of the author’s personality,
and the “Stand Easy” and “Ack Willie”
notes would be of special interest to the
Armored Brigade; but as a whole they
give the impression of padding-out a
book which, though it might have been
slim, could still have stood firmly
enough without them.
However, the writing of more general
interest remains: roughly about two-
thirds of the volume, in which once
again, as in “Historic Roads Round
Sydney” and “Run o’ Waters,” we see
John Fairfax’s genuine talent for the
essay, all the more pleasing for the
youthful light-heartedness in which he
plunged into it. He really could be
delightfully funny. He had a fine feel-
ing for Australia—the land, the people,
the history. And he had a territory all
his own in his canoe-trips down the
N. S. Wales rivers.
Some of the essays in this book add
new rivers to those he previously des-
cribed: he has a story (with photo-
graphs) of a wild ride down a gorge of
the Snowy, and, surrounded by ducks
and islets, he paddles the Clarence from
Tambulam to the “Copmanhurst Pier.”
Others are on historical subjects, such
as the bushrangers of the Burragorang
Valley and Alexander Berry’s pioneer-
ing on the Shoalhaven. And others,
mostly humorous, except for a picture
of Londoners standing-up to the
doodlebugs and a tribute to the
Americans —“We will not forget that
every campaign of yours northward
from Guadalcanal has been freeing the
tentacles reaching out towards our free
and very pleasant land, or that your
soldiers and our soldiers fought-off the
dangerous foothold that Japan had
gained in New Guinea” —are on such
war-time subjects as camping in the
mud of the Blacksoil Plains, the dream
of a peaceful life to come when you
could keep bees and goats, and the
pleasures of swinging the lead. Any
old soldier or old civilian who lived
through World War II will find them
very enjoyable, both for their humor
and their nostalgic charm.
TUG TELLUM AND PRAWN
The basking lizard, I have seen laid out
In George Blight—frightened to light
my pipe
Lest a whiff of him bum—while the
drought
In his eyes was bloodshot as a tips
Tomato, his mouth wide agape for the
flies.
And, yet, / would call and say, “Satur-
day,
It should be a tide for the ‘pots’.” His
eyes,
Glassered, pelican-wise, would swivel and
they,
By their shift of station, would answer
me.
At four in the morning, it’s light, and
we’d be off,
Disreputable, mud-scow fishermen whom
the sea
Would meet in its hidden creeks, and
scoff
At with sandfly scorn. No rosy dawn-
Sorbed anglers with gnats and flies. For
bait ?
"Tug tellum and prawn.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT,
Short Stories
The Lady and the Cutthroat, by Tom
Hopkinson (Cape), short-stories by a
brilliant magazine-editor, is very
properly a Book Society recommenda-
tion.
The first is about the manager of a
gravel-firm who could handle affairs
but not control men and at last finds
an engineer who can control men but
can’t handle affairs. Together they
overturn the board of directors, which
had been on the brink of sacking the
manager. It is a story about here and
now; and it concerns real problems of
present-day people.
“A Drop Out of the Bottle” is
another case in point, where the wharf-
laborers’ tea-boy, on the edge of sacri-
ficing his career by reporting pilfering
to the manager, is prevented by a kindly
stenographer and lives to become Lord
Mayor.
Here also one may learn how Bob
was done-out of Iris when she behaved
so improperly as to win a beauty-com-
petition, and what inconvenience
resulted to a bank and its customers
from one of its cashiers being above
all others courageous. The wit of the
situations is enhanced by the simplicity
and precision of the story-telling: in
very few short-stories today do you
get so much of everything all at once.
The Fledgeling: Frances Faviell
(Cassell). A novel of 24 hours in the
life of a London slum-family, centred
on a young National Serviceman, too
sensitive for the rough-and-tumble of
soldiering, who makes his third attempt
at desertion. He is offset by an
indomitable old woman, dying of
cancer. The atmosphere is vivid and
the dialogue rings true.
THE DRY CREEK
l cannot catch this water,
Not even now when it’s gone
And dry lies the creek in the paddock
With all its secrets shown,
Shallow and pool and eddy,
Clay, shingle and stone.
Like the brown thirsty sheep
l ponder sand and pebble:
Here’s that tong-buried stump
The current used to nibble,
Here the blue hewn fished,
Here frogs cried out like a bubble.
Not the most crystal water
Was ever as this so clear:
All 1 cannot see now
Is my own face when I peer,
Looking for something gone
Yet still mysteriously here.
How like a woman she lies,
Who once was a shy wild girl
Sparkling through the green grasses
With all her skirt in a whirl! —
Grown dry and brown and older,
Haunted by water still.
Children and lovers all gone,
Youth /,Vanished past recall,
Bare to the sun she abandons
Her body’s curve and fall
In the last, inviolable secret
Of having no secrets at all.
n.s.w.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


Another
Record Year
City Mutual policyholders benefit
directly from the most successful
year in the Society’s history. A
Record Surplus for 1957 of
£1,605,000 has made it possible
to again increase reserves substan-
tially and to increase the rates of
bonuses for the sixth time in seven
years.
Assets now exceed £40,000,000.
No
Shareholders
All profits belong to the Policyholders
SAVE INCOME TAX
Don’t pay away in income tax, money that could be
securing the assurance benefits you need. Remember,
you can pay up to £3OO yearly in premiums and
deduct it from your income tax return. By this means,
a proportion of your investment in assurance is
actually paid for you.
TO MEN OF PROPERTY
Who want their heirs to inherit it
How often do you hear of estates being sold to pay
death duties? It can happen to you. Death duties must
be paid in cash before your heirs can inherit. The City
Mutual Life has a policy to provide this cash so that
your assets go unencumbered to your heirs. For further
information, write, ’phone or call the nearest office of
the Society.
- . - ■ The
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
Incorporated in N.S. W. 1878 .
City Mutual Building, 459 CoJJins Street, Melbourne
Telephone: MB 2561
City Mutual Building, 118 King William St,, Adelaide
Telephone: LA 4831
City Mutual Building, 22 Elizabeth Street, Hobart
Telephone: B 2504
