

The Bulletin
"A Winter’s Tale”—page32
Wednesday, July 2, 1958
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
" Weekend driver!"


STORY WRITING ! !
MANY STOTT STUDENTS
PAY FOR THEIR COURSE
BEFORE COMPLETING IT.
It will pay YOU to study with STOTT’S.
Note these extracts from letters received:—
“Since I started my Course, I have had SIX-
TEEN Stories and Articles accepted, so you see
the Course has more than PAID FOR ITSELF.”
“I have earned more money while taking the
Course than l paid in fees.”
“Mv earnings from my Writing total almost
£7O ‘(Les. II).”
"During, the past six months my Acceptances
have returned me over £200.”
“I very much enjoyed my studies and more
than paid for the Course with Articles accented.”
STOTT’S CAN TRAIN YOU AT HOME.
Our Literary Prospectus is sent without
obligation to all interested in Writing.
Stott's Correspondence College
300 Rubrfll St., Melbourne; 149 St.,
Sydney ; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grentell
Bt., Adelaide; 264 Murray St., Perth.
i— — CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON j
| To STOTT’S: Please send me. without any obli ■
nation, your Prospectus, and full particulars ol |
I your Literary Courses.
MY NAME J
j A DDK ESS j
I AOt: (S.P..W.BV I
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.r.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult te
obtain volume, let us find It for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
lee only if successful.
The Red Page
BLUEY TRUSCOTT
Ivan Southall has had one great
advantage in the writing of his Bluey
Truscott (Angus and Robertson), that
he himself flew flying-boats in World
War II and so, though a flying-boat is
not a Spitfire, has a good general know-
ledge of aircraft and how they and their
crews behave; and he has suffered from
one great disadvantage, that he is the
author of a successful series of books
for; boys about a character named
Simon Black.
His excited, overdramatic style,
coupled with his invented dialogue
(which should never be used in a
biography), makes his facts and charac-
terisation seem doubtful and his
descriptions of air-fighting confusing.
Is it a fact, for instance, that Truscott,
who apparently found it difficult to learn
to fly, really “wept” on his first solo-
flight and afterwards in the crew-room?
It could happen; and it would not be
discreditable if it did; but when his
aeroplane also “snarls.” one just doesn’t
know whether to believe it or not: —•
The Tiger snarled and shook and
fled into the air, and Blue smiled
into the heavens through his tears.
He smiled all the way round, round
and round four times, until he sum-
moned the courage to put her back
on the ground.
In the crew-room, afterwards, he
wept.
Is it possible that Pilot-Officer Goon,
Truscott’s flying-instructor in Australia,
and his Canadian instructor, and then
his instructor in England, all talked
in exactly the same amusing way? Did
Truscott and Paddy Finucane really
have the conversation about democracy
which Southall, himself moved to justify
it in a footnote, says is based on
“reports, statements and interviews”?
Did Truscott, while “the air was scream-
ing through him with ragged teeth”
(whatever that may mean), really bale-
out “with a muscular spasm of inhuman
strength” into the Channel “almost at
sea-level”?
Did Bardie Wawn “scream” when,
on his return to Australia, Truscott
nearly crashed in his Kittyhawk at
Mildura? Did Truscott in his turn
actually “scream” the words “Over my
dead body!” when, at Milne Bay, he
decided to shoot-up the belly-tanks
which the Japanese had dropped in
the sea to be used by their Zeros when
they landed? Did he say those words
at all?
And, in the air-fighting, what on
earth or in the sky is really going on
when Southall’s prose starts to swoop
and soar like scenes of love-making in
Hemingway and the pilots throw their
Spitfires about like boomerangs? —
He swept up, panting with un-
belief, desperate with excitement. He
wanted to shout and sing. He was
soaked in sweat. His heart was
pounding in every part of his body.
He scanned the skies above and sud-
denly realised he could see to eternity.
The battle, miles above him, was
painted in black and white, in per-
spective, in realism, shadows and
highlights. It was stark and he could
see.
Aircraft flamed towards earth, black
smoke and white smoke bubbled and
streaked, silken canopies drifted on
the stratosphere winds, and the
Merlin sang like violins in his ears.
An overwhelming emotion ignited,
within him, a flash of heat, and he
threw his aircraft up and rolled her
over and plunged low into cloud
because he was free and because he
was alone.
It is a book that should have been
taken more quietly, more smoothly,
without invention, in the style of D. E.
Charlwood’s excellent “No Moon To-
night.” But—Bluey Truscott, Paddy
Finucane, Spitfires, 109’s, Squadron
452, the escape of the Scharnhorst and
the Gneisenau from Brest, the strafing
of the Japanese invasion-fleet at Milne
Bay: these are resounding names and
resounding events, and Southall has
grappled with them manfully.
He has faced enormous difficulties
both in trying to describe the air-
fighting and in trying to reconstruct
Truscott’s magnificent career; for the
fighting is practically indescribable,
and it is not likely that Truscott left
any great mass of letters or diaries,
which are the materials employed by
luckier biographers to state facts and
character with precision and to avoid
inventing dialogue. And to a large
extent, once you allow for his extravag-
ances of style, he has conquered both
difficulties: for at least he always con-
veys an impression of the excitement
and swiftness of air-combat, with often
enough a clear, dramatic picture; and
on the whole his Truscott —stocky,
red-haired, tackling the German fighters
as he tackled his opponents on the
Melbourne football fields; gay, high-
spirited, full of energy, courage and an
ultimate responsibility sounds very
much like what the real Truscott must
have been.
Truscott’s final tally in Great Britain,
“as far as can be estimated from con-
flicting figures,” was fifteen German
aircraft destroyed, five probably
destroyed and up to ten damaged. He
was killed in one of those apparently
needless and meaningless accidents that
took so many of the great airmen,
when, returning to Exmouth Gulf on a
routine escort of a Catalina, he was
misled by the hazy dusk and flew his
Kittyhawk into the sea.
THIS WIND
This wind as sharp as tooth of brier
Kindles anew the robin’s fire
On rock and thistle, thorny tree.
Like a recurring memory
And fixed in time as in a ring,
He shakes the snowflakes from his wing
And sets his beacons round the earth
As if his song had silenced death.
But O the flakes that fell last year
No rain will wash from Tempe’s hair;
And where’s the quail once tucked so
warm
Beneath an idle Grecian’s arm?
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
Sailing-ship Pays
If conditions were tough for British
seamen in the sailing-ship days —and
continued hard enough afterwards —it
must be granted that life was not much
easier for their officers; and certainly
not for the apprentices who were to
become their officers.
Here, in Sea Prelude (Blackwood),
was young Geoffrey Rawson, after-
wards to become Lt.-Com. Rawson,
o Continued on page 58)


ANTHONY - HORDERNS!
PHONE 80951. BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
"0M&
m
Wm^.
" M
: .
>'-
:< ; ■■
■ •■:v ; > ;; - : .
'M?sr
m
7£&o£i
" W
If
American styled "Marshall Selectives
fractional fitting shoes that look smart and feel comfortable too!
Marshall Selectives combine the .utmost in comfort with
a neat and smart appearance, specially for the man
who wants the best. Each of the three new Marshall
shoes on this page, and every other shoe in the
large Marshall range, is available in 60 measured
fittings, so you can be sure of perfect fit and comfort.
when mailing your order place
your feet lightly on a tracing
page and trace outline.
Business shoe with s~ho!e tie
derby front. Built on the "Royal"
fast. In soft black mahogany
polishing calf or black kid. 109/6.
Plain vamp three-hole tie derby—
built on the American-designed
"Royal" last. In black calf or
brown, blue, black suede. 109/6.
Banded vamp casual with 3- hole
tie raglan derby. A new American
Style available in soft black
polishing calf. Price only 109/6.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, July 2,1958
Vol 79—No. 4090
The National Australian Newspaper
‘‘Australia for the White Man”
Directors!
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 597 L
Victoria: Newspaper. House, 247-249 .Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
LEBANON AND THE WORLD
rTHE wretched position of Lebanon
A illustrates the inability of little
nations in strategic and coveted geo-
graphical positions to live in a bandit
world in “the age of self-determina-
tion.”
The Lebanese are a pot-pourri of
races and religions, their condition
being well illustrated by the party
position in their Parliament of 44
members, which is made up of eight
separate sections, all constituted on a
religious basis. The largest are the
Christian Maronites numbering 13.
Greek Orthodox, Greek Catholics and
Armenian Orthodox also huddle to-
gether in separate groups. And on the
Moslem side so do the Shias and the
Sunnis and the Druses; while out on a
limb sits a lonely figure representing
“minorities.”
Geographically Lebanon is a strip of
coastland 135 miles long and not any
more than 35 miles wide. It consists
in the main of two mountain ranges
running parallel, with a valley between.
Its population is about the same as
Melbourne’s. Its Cabinet is a mixed
bag, and its capital, Beirut, the great
port of the Eastern Mediterranean, loves
to think of itself as a European city.
Add that it has been a member of the
Arab League, its official language is
Arabic, and that its Christians, who
number just under half the total, have
an urge to speak French and are,
generally speaking, well educated and
cultured beyond the level of the bulk
of the Mohammedans, and one has a
pretty fair picture of Lebanon.
From the point of view of security it
would have been much better-off, safer
and better protected as a trustee or
mandate country- than as a nation:
which it isn’t, being only a coveted
splinter with advantages as an outlet
for oil and trade, and a defence posi-
tion —as Australian troops well learned
—of considerable merit and import-
ance. It is “the key to the Levant”
which could be turned into an immense
Gibraltar.
It is, in fact, a piece of earth which
the new imperialists of Nasser’s empire
must have to consolidate their new
federation’s security and control the
Mediterranean oil-export trade and
which the Russians are eager to bring
behind the new Middle Eastern Iron
Curtain with a view to finding a con-
trolled outlet for themselves to the
Mediterranean.
It is equally a position which the
Nato nations cannot allow them to
gain. Lebanon therefore is a scrap of
earth which might easily become the
pretext for world jyar. The U.S. State
Department, gazing at its present con-
dition and prospects, must reflect sadly
how much better it would have been
had it allowed the British and French
to stop Nasser in his tracks in 1956
instead of assisting the grinning
Russians to place their Cairo stooge
in the saddle. One by one the little
Middle Eastern nations are being
corralled into the camp of the Reds,
and the United States is now in the
position of having to join in doing the
work which should have been done
by the Suez expedition two years ago.
Of course there was an assumption
at the time that the United Nations
w,ould prove effective and that Nasser,
having been presented with a recon-
structed Canal by courtesy of Mr.
Dulles and his agents deputising for
the United Nations, would prove grate-
ful and compliant, but this has proved
a delusion.
Immediately after the arrival of the
U.N. forces intended to keep the peace
along the Israeli frontier the Russians
armed the Syrians to the teeth and
sponsored a plot to grab Jordan and
extend their Afro-A.sian campaign to
North Africa and Yemen on a large
scale.
Syria was swallowed-up by the
Egyptians into the United Arab Repub-
lic, and the United Arab Republic has
begun the task of swallowing Lebanon,
being given confidence by the events of
the Suez affair and confident that the
United States, if consistent, will not
interfere and that the United Kingdom
does not matter any more. Mr. Dulles
and Nasser both had convinced
themselves that this was so, though the
latter seems to be going through the
processes of disillusion, since the
United States Sixth Fleet is standing
by off the Lebanese coast in combina-
tion with what is left of the Royal
Navy.
The Lebanese, with the simple faith
acquired when U.N. released them
from French bondage (and protection),
naturally appealed to U.N. Security
Council against “the interference of
the United Arab Republic,” which has
been pouring arms and men into the
border regions of Lebanon. Thence
they infiltrate into Beirut to throw
bombs and fire on the President’s
palace, undeterred by the fact that
Lebanon owns an army of 6000 men
and a few British Venom aircraft of
sedate age and performance.
The U.N. decided to “dispatch
urgently an observation-group to
Lebanon so as to ensure that there is
no illegal infiltration of personnel or
supply of arms or material across the
Lebanese borders.” And it requested
the observation-group to keep the
Security Council “currently informed.”
Mr. Hammarskjold then began to talk
gobbledegook with machine - gun
rapidity.
From this it would appear that he
envisages “an operation on two levels,”
the “first by the observer-group proper
composed of highly qualified and
experienced men who have been col-
lected from various corners of the
globe.” Some came from India,
where, before leaving, they were
addressed on the need for impartiality
by the Indian Foreign Minister, Mr.
Khrishna Menon, one of the most out-
spoken friends of Russia in his country
and one of the bitterest critics of the
British during the Suez Canal affair.
It appears most unfortunate that the
“rebels” in Lebanon and their backers
in the United Arab Republic do not
seem to have the same objectives in
life as Mr. Hammarskjold, and
that when his “skilled observers”
approached the border-country they
were advised to go and chase them-
selves, the advice being accompanied
by a little machine-gun fire.
However, Mr. Hammarskjold has
been running true to form, and the
results of his efforts are worth record-
ing verbatim as an indication of how
much he is likely to achieve:—
* Asked why the advance-party of the
observation-group was selected from
UNTSO rather than from the U.N. Emer-
gency Force, he replied: “Well, I think
that was based on practical possibilities
first of all. They are officers trained in
specific observer-work —that is one aspect.
And the other aspect should be quite
obvious to you. The UNEF is stationed
on UAR territory and there is obviously
some slight objection already against mix-
ing UNTSO operations and this one.
There are stronger objections of the very
same type to mixing the UNEF operations
and this one As a matter of course,
these officers who are used as observers
in Lebanon will be on full lcave-of-absence
from UNTSO during the time they are
serving in Lebanon. We are in that way
not going to have, so to say, two hats on
them.”
Mr. Hammarskjold himself has been
in Cairo trying to persuade Nasser,
who, tongue-in-cheek, disclaims all con-
nection with the disturbances, to
appeal to the rebels to desist from
their evil ways, which, of course, they
will not do, and in Beirut begging the
local Government to refrain from
reprisals against the insurgents. His
assurance to the press that he was
optimistic about the results of his
mission was almost drowned in the
roar from a bomb dropped a hundred
yards away.


THE SNAKE-CHARMER


PLAIN ENGLISH
Warning Signs
[From Canberra]
All the signs so far portend a most
disappointing election-year Common-
wealth Budget from retiring Treasurer
Fadden and his team of experts when the
massive document is presented to Parlia-
ment and the people on August 6.
Despite the earlier predictions of the
pundits that the Government, through
its Budget mouthpiece, would woo the
electors on August 6, the real likelihood
now is that the electors will get very
little wooing, if any.
New Zealand’s shock announcement of
heavily increased taxes highlights the
trend now current in Australia’s affairs —
one of falling export-returns' and general
difficulty in making ends meet.
This is not to suggest that the Common-
wealth will increase taxation, but it does
mean that either the status quo will be
retained or there will be very meagre
hand-outs.
Firstly, the Government cannot afford
to be over-generous, and, secondly, it
knows it does not need to woo the
electors, as there is no other acceptable
suitor in sight.
Federal Cabinet will settle down to
a detailed look at the Budget proposals
for the first time next week and will
have those two factors well in mind.
Fadden has already sent back to
departments one provisional list of
Estimates and told departmental heads
to prepare “ more realistic ” submissions;
and there is every possibility he will do
it again if the figures have not been
sharply pruned.
The trend in trade is definitely bleak.
Both Fadden and Prime Minister
Menzies have already indicated in public
statements that the people should not
expect too much, and they will impress
this on their Cabinet colleagues, who are
clamoring for election baits, when the
Cabinet assembles next week.
New Zealand's Plight
Like a chill wind from the South Pole,
the New Zealand Budget and its accom-
paniments have affected the whole
financial and political weather in this
part of the world.
For the past six months Maoriland’s
problems have been growing increas-
ingly obvious, even in Australia. The
fall in prices for dairy produce has
affected N.Z. much more than it has
hurt Australia, which has a broader-
based economy. But, following the
slump in butter, wool is now down
heavily, and with the fall in metals and
the failure of the Wheat-harvest last
year, Australia’s fellow-feeling with its
trans-Tasman neighbor is likely to
increase as the months go by.
Already Australian exporters to N.Z.
have suffered a severe blow in the loss
of up to half their trade with N.Z.
through import-restrictions introduced
to save the exhaustion of overseas funds.
And now that a Budget has been
brought-down in Maoriland imposing
huge sales-tax and excise increases, as
well as some lifts in income-tax, Austra-
lian taxpayers will be reconsidering their
prospects of taxation relief in the Budget
that is to mark the swan-song of Sir
Arthur Fadden as Federal Treasurer.
Last year New Zealand had an elec-
tion in which the rival parties tried to
outbid each other in promises of tax-
relief. The more reckless bidder was
Walter Nash, and his party won. In
the face of obvious national financial
distress his Government carried-out its
election pledge. It added considerably
to internal spending-power and to the
country’s economic problems.
New Zealand, like Australia, carries
great top-hamper in the way of social-
security benefits. This top-hamper calls
for fair economic weather if the Ship of
State is to avoid disastrous economic
buffeting. For the past 18 years the
weather has been reasonably good, and
the country has been prosperous, with
overfull employment. Now the weather
has changed violently, and, without the
ballast of a more industrialised economy,
New Zealand appears to be “for it.”
Lafoe, former governor of the N.Z.
central bank, during World War II
offered the opinion that only the war
saved N.Z. from bankruptcy. New
Zealanders will find many of the factors
which then threatened the country with
bankruptcy again looming on the
horizon. But it now has the advantage
of an upvalued currency, on a par with
sterling, to which resort may be taken
in an extreme emergency in the terms
of overseas trade. It is not bound by
any international agreements in this
respect.
Four Budgets
Of the four great white nations of the
British Commonwealth, only one has this
year yet to bring-down its Budget. That
is Australia.
The British Budget came down in the
midst of the major operation on trade
and finances which began with the raising
of the Bank-rate to 7 p.c. last September,
and immediately following the jolt caused
by the issue of the autumn unemploy-
ment figures in the United States and
Canada.
It was a cut-and-slash Budget, though
not nearly so drastic as had been
expected. In a United Kingdom suffer-
ing from pressure from the trade-unions
for wage-rises and large obligations in
the defence field, added to by the failures
of the United States in the same field
and the growing unrest in the Middle
East, the Government was forced to walk
warily, and its policy seems to have paid
dividends. Some of the policies to which
it became heir from the Attlee Labor
Government, however, have not been
nearly so successful. The deficit on the
British Railways of about £63 million
sterling is an example of the burdens of
Socialism.
Canada’s Budget came out following
a great victory for Mr. Diefenbaker at
the polls—on June 18. It followed
closely on the lines forecast during the
campaign—an “anti-recession Budget.”
Its feature is an all-time deficit of
about £A26O million —the biggest Canada
has ever seen in peace-time.
In a year of falling revenues expendi-
ture is to be increased on hospital
benefits and old-age pensions. Revenue
fall-off is due to the same causes that are
sending down revenue in Australia—
falling-off of taxable incomes of com-
panies and individuals.
Also the Government has had to face
a considerable increase in the deficit of
Canadian National Railways, which are
suffering from the same ailments as rail-
ways everywhere.
Generally speaking it was a “stayput”
Budget with a leaning towards precaution
rather than pessimism, and included a
considerable public-works outlay to
relieve and prevent unemployment.
Not so Maoriland's. There the country
has been hit hard by the effects of slump-
ing primary-products prices on a carefree
Welfare State policy whose implementers
have regarded the coming shadows with
a Nelsonian blind eye, their latest heirs
having joyously celebrated their return
to power after several years in the wilder-
ness with a generous rebate of taxation
to their supporters.
Now, in a Budget of desperation—
“sputnik” rather than “stayput” in
nature —taxpayers are being asked to
make good the deficit caused by the rebate
—with interest.
The basic level of tax as in 1954 —3s. in
the £, rising to 12s. —is restored. Exemp-
tion of individuals (unmarried) is reduced
from £375 to £3OO. Even personal exemp-
tion for persons over 65 of £420 has been
cut down to £345, while old-age pensions
and child-endowment rise slightly as a
sop.
Changes in the company-tax law make
individuals liable to taxation on divi-
dends up to 7s. in the £. Undivided
profits will be taxed above a certain level.
Higher estate- and gift-duties on sums
over £12,000 are to be charged.
' Sales-tax on motor-vehicles is to be
doubled —the new rate is 40 p.c., which
will cost the purchaser of average types
up to another £A2OO per vehicle. Petrol-
tax climbs from Is. 3Jd. to 2s. 3jd. (N.Z.
currency). Beer excise goes up from 3s.
to 6s. a gallon—meaning that a 9oz. glass
will now be about Is. 7d. (Australian).
The duty on spirits rises from £3 to £6 a
gallon.
The increase on cigarettes is from
335. 6d. to 70s. per 1000.
Taxation rises will bring-in about £27
million. And the figure is kept down to
this only by cheeseparing desperately in
defence, in which Peter Fraser’s com-
pulsory scheme has been abandoned.
The Federal Treasurer, Sir Arthur
Fadden. even if he has not any startling
concessions to offer in the light of eco-
nomic conditions, will at least have the
satisfaction of pointing to the Awful


Example of a Labor-invented policy of
finance across the Tasman. Not that
there is room for any real satisfaction
about it. New Zealand’s economic con-
dition must have some reprecussions on
the Commonwealth.
Split to the Wide
The doings of the N.S.W. A.L.P. Annual
Conference, of the A.C.T.U. and the
A.L.P. Federal Conference in Adelaide
exhibit a condition of extreme schism
and a worse state of mind.
The word “summit” to describe the
Adelaide conference showed the nature
of affairs on the eve of a Federal
election.
In N.S.W- and Queensland, Victoria
and Tasmania the split between the
A.L.P. and the D.L.P. has widened since
the Queensland and Victorian elections
and the development of the Hursey busi-
ness. How unpleasant the implications
of this latter affair are for Labor is
shown by the calm demand of the
A.C.T.U. that the Hurseys, who in such
circumstances could starve were it not
for the support of the fund raised by
the Sydney “Daily Telegraph,” should
be sent on leave for the convenience
of the trade-union movement in general,
which is ready to crush them to death.
How much the A.C.T.U. has to be
frightened of the issue was shown dur-
ing the weekend when the secretary of
the D.L.P. announced that A. E. Monk,
president of that body, had taken exactly
the same stand as the Hurseys when
levied for D.L.P. funds by the Federated
Clerks’ Union in Melbourne, and had
been allowed to keep his shilling and
his principles.
The N.S.W. conference earlier in
June showed a division between A.L.P.
executive and Tom Dougherty, of the
A.W.U., on the abolition of the Legis-
lative Council and a distinct split in
the industrial section of the party over
other matters. There is also a split in
the N.S.W. Trades Hall Council over
Russia’s murder of the Hungarian
leaders and a less-publicised one over the
Hurseys and over Dr. Evatt’s leadership.
Also a split between Dr. Evatt and Mr.
Monk on immigration and unemploy-
ment and economic prospects.
The split between A.C.T.U. sections
and the A.W.U. is common to all States,
but the A.W.U. itself is badly split into
Left and Right sections in N.S.W. and
Queensland in particular.
The Adelaide conference was a des-
perate attempt to achieve unity on a
compromise by the appointment of a
Commonwealth Labor Advisory Com-
mittee consisting of representatives of
the A.C.T.U. faction and the A.W.U.,
but this would be an uncomfortable
trial-marriage, since the A.C.T.U. is on
the end of a taut string with the Com-
munist leaders of big unions at the
other end.
However, there is a ray of hope in
the fact that the Communist leader-
ship of the Watersiders may be beaten
at the union elections this month, though
some of its candidates are running in
double-harness on a unity-ticket with the
A.L.P. Leftists.
The chances are that the A.W.U. will
not come into any useful organisation
unless Dr. Evatt goes. Whatever some
of its leaders might be ready to do, the
bulk of its rank-and-file will have none
of him. And it will have none of the
alternatives seedy survivals of war-
time radicalism, E. J. Ward and A. A.
Calw'ell, the latter being especially sus-
pect as a possible Trojan Horse for
Santamaria and/or the D.L.P.
Metals and Manners
[From Canberra]
Australia’s export trade, drifting into
broken water this financial year, has just
escaped a real body-blow which would
have cost it millions of pounds annually.
The reprieve came in the form of
President Eisenhower’s rejection of a
proposal by the U.S. Tariffs Commis-
sion to increase import-duties on lead
and zinc.
Eisenhower has put a “freeze” on the
import-duties at their existing level,
pending a Congressional study for a
subsidy plan to aid America’s own lead-
and zinc-mining industries.
Australian Trade Minister McEwen
was well aware of what would be the
result of increased import-duties in the
U.S. and recently has put Australia’s
case forward, with much emphasis.
He said that any action to increase the
barriers to Australia's exports of lead
and zinc to America —Australia’s biggest
market—would have seriously damaged
Australia.
While welcoming Eisenhower’s deci-
sion to “freeze” the duties, McEwen
warned that any subsidy plan approved
for American industry should be trained
with the fullest regard for the trading
interests of countries friendly to
America and whose production, in many
cases, had been expanded in recent years
to meet the needs of the American
market and the requirements of Ameri-
can Government policy.
He said while the subsidy proposals
showed the American Government
realised the necessity to stabilise its own
industries, there were very good reasons
why it should also interest itself in
security and stability for the lead and zinc
trade of its friendly associate countries.
He said the policies and actions of
the United States and other great indus-
trial powers should be towards avoid-
ing checks and disturbances to the
steady growth of efficient production of
lead and zinc and other primary com-
modities.
McEwen added that in 1956-57 more
than half of Australia’s lead and zinc
exports went to the United States, and any
increased barriers to those exports would
result in not only a drop in the price
received for lead and zinc in the U.S.
but reduce the world market-price and
lower Australia’s total overall export-
earnings.
Sydney Trams and Buses
Public transport is in the news in
Sydney at the moment. In the early
hours of Sunday morning the last tram
to cross the Harbor Bridge left Wynyard
for Lane Cove, bringing to an end the
North Shore tramway system which was
inaugurated in 1886. Instead of the
trams a fleet of 70 buses will in future
carry passengers from North Sydney and
adjoining suburbs to and from the city.
The tramlines are to be removed from
the bridge to permit the construction of
a two-lane roadway for cars.
The Department of Road Transport
seems to be very happy at the idea, but
.its enthusiasm is not shared by councils
in the area affected. Critics claim the
change will cause more congestion than
ever on the bridge and that if the trams
are to go, then the tracks should have
been used to augment the North Shore
train-service.
A couple of days before the last tram
crossed the bridge it had been announced
that Sydney tram and bus services would
lose £ly million for the year. And two
days before that city-transport had been
earnestly discussed by the Sydney City
Council. Lord Mayor Jensen, who
should know something about public
transport, having just returned from a
world-tour at public expense, deplored
the fact that the council was likely to
lose money by the reduced use of the
city, which he ascribed in part to high
fares. He suggested that it might be
worth-while trying a flat-rate for city-
travel, enabling a passenger to break his
journey as often as he needed and to
continue in the same direction without
paying additional fares. Such a system
worked well in Copenhagen, he said.
Alderman Ernie O’Dea, whose Shop
Assistants’ Union has very good reasons
for wanting people to come to the city,
advocated the council’s having control of
public transport. O’Dea is also hankering
after the idea of free public transport;
he suggested abolishing all fares in one
district as an experiment. It’s an idea
he’d better not mention too loudly in
the presence of tram- and bus-conductors.
Brisbane Lord Mayor Groom could
tell Sydney City Council a few things
about tackling public transport. He said
last week that he would willingly sell
Brisbane's trams and buses if the right
opportunity arose, and that the take-
over of private bus-runs 10 years ago
had “ possibly been a mistake.” Aider-
man Cook, who was a member of the
council at the time of the takeover,
didn’t concur with the “ possibly.” He
said bluntly, “ It was the greatest mistake
we ever made.” Still, Lord Mayor
Groom made one remark that should
encourage Ernie O’Dea. He claimed that
Brisbane transport had the lowest fares
in Australia and the lowest deficit. Ernie
may be able to argue from this that by
abolishing fares Sydney will also abolish
its deficit.


So ciety
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
Che was the kind of little old lady that
Hollywood casting-agents select for the
hero’s mild-mannered lovable old mother ;
and she came up the steps on to the plat-
form at Macdonaldtown station (N.S.W.)
just as the guard pressed his bell. The
train had started when the driver, almost
abreast of the forlorn little figure, saw
her. To my amazement he braked and
stopped the train ... So beautiful, so
unprecedented was his action that I was
glad he hadn’t heard the violent, red-
blooded cuss-word the dear old soul had
emitted when she saw the train start.—
“Harbel.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Brock”: Editor-in-chief of the 11th
edition of the Encyclopedia Britannica
was Hugh Chisholm. Editor-in-chief of
the Australian Encylopcedia, just pub-
lished —Alexander Hugh Chisholm.
“Benbow”: The raising of funds for
good causes requires some ingenuity these
days. Following the example of the
Methodist Ladies’ Guild, which had
obtained the fried-fish franchise at our
local show and thereby retrieved their
desperate finances, the secretary of the
Rotary Club thought he had a winner
when he obtained the bar concession.
Whilst it could be understood that pillars
of righteousness and stalwart churchmen
might object to serving beer at the show,
it was a surprise to hear the sporting and
racing members of the fraternity swear
they’d be damned if they’d pull pots for
every strumpet and spieler in
Queensland.
«J«
“Pelga”: Maurice Clare may not object
to extremes of heat and cold (B. 11 /6 / ’5B)
but fellow-violinist Ida Haendel found
Ballarat's chilliness too much for her and
said that in all her travels she had never
met a colder concert-hall. After donning
first an evening-coat and then a cardigan,
she was still frozen and asked to be
excused from giving encores.
♦Jf «£♦
“Ceg”: It would have been interesting
to know what that New Australian
couple regarded as “Colonial Foods” (B.
18/6/’5B). The menu of a well-known
Chinese restaurant occupied about two
pages of foolscap, but what intrigued me
was the slip of paper attached, which
mentioned that Australian food also was
served. Only one dish was shown under
that heading: Madras Curry and Rice.
I asked the very non-Chinese waitress in
what part of Australia Madras was
situated. “Search me,” she said, “I
haven’t a clue.” She, at any rate, was
an Australian dish, and a tasty one at
that.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pip Tok”: An uneasy hush prevailed
in the Perth Criminal Court when there
was no response to the call of an accused
person’s name. Heavy footsteps were
heard ascending the steps from the cells
below the court to the dock: a red-
faced policeman explained to the
judge that there had been difficulty in
unlocking the door of the cell in which
prisoners were placed while awaiting the
call. “This is an occasion,” his Honor
remarked, “when some of your regular
clients might have been helpful.”
“Lorna Doone”: Parking, my car in
an almost-too-small space, I backed it
into a huge lorry. I retired to inspect
the damage. Seeing none on the lorry,
but, alas! on mine ... 1 was about to
leave when a woman’s head popped out
of the cabin. I apologised, and asked
her if she’d tell the driver to take my
number if he could find any damage to
his vehicle. “Oh, don’t worry about this
old thing, luv ; as long as you haven't
hurt your own is all that matters!”
♦♦♦ *j*
Many ticket-holders in Melbourne's
lottery give their address as
G.P.0., Melbourne, presumably to avoid
the hordes of sellers of motor-cars, land,
TV, refrigerators and what-not who will
descend upon those who win substantial
prizes. On a day when five of the first
10 prize-winners had thus hidden them-
selves behind the G.P.0., a chap on the
tram looked up from his evening paper
and said to his mate, “Cripes, the Gyppos
had a good day at Tatt's today!”—•
“Fontaine.”
“Aye, he loves to have a blow with the Sydney Symphony.”
HUMAN INTEREST
“Mr. Henry W. Heikkinen, of Minneapolis
(U.S.A.), a student at Sydney University, told
a South Sydney Rotary Club he was a
‘kangaroo-hater’ because Australian publicity
in America stressed the strangeness of the
country and said nothing about its people.”
There’s something that we shouldn’t do
Says Mr. Henry Heikkinen —
That’s advertise the kangaroo
And not Australian men:
The thought may cause a slight
surprise
To some Australian dolls and guys.
It’s true that kangaroos don’t pass
Their every night in silent gloom
Watching shadows on a glass
In a smoke-filled room ;
The ’roo and the koala-bear
Are happier in the open air.
No brolgas dance, no black-swan quacks,
No bandicoot, I'm certain, delves,
To get enough to pay a tax
They’ve wished upon themselves;
The wise and patient platypus
Also leaves such things to us.
The kookaburra laughs his fill
As Sunday carloads pass, beneath ;
He knows there’s easier ways to kilt
Or bore yourself to death:
Nor do opossums go to jail,
And if they hang, it’s by the tail.
So what would tempt a tourist most
To overlook our pubs and trains:
Humanity with reason lost,
Or animals with brains?
Or do we travel just to see
That no one’s better-off than we?
N.s.w.
SWILLIAM.


I could never see the necessity for
those cumbersome air-filters they
fit to modern mofor-car engines. I
always suspected they were gadgets
installed solely to confuse owners who
might be nurturing ideas of doing their
own maintenance. Not now, though;
mine is back in position, gleaming and
refilled, after six years’ dust- and spider-
gathering in a garage corner. The great
wisdom of the designers was revealed to
me a couple of weeks ago in a small
Gippsland town where I had stopped for
petrol. “. . . And a pint of thirty, too,”
I said to the attractive lass who operated
the pumps. -In true professional style
she raised the bonnet with her left hand,
grasped the oil-bottle in her right—and
proceeded to pour the contents down the
exposed carburettor. —“Blocker.”
* ♦>
“Pelga”: New Australian Rules foot-
ball ! Names taken from the list of
players for this week’s V.F.L. games:
Silvagni, Bennetti, De Lorenzo, Zorzi,
Ongarello, Porta, Costello, Schultz,
Broockmann, Barassi, Peucker, Tagliabue,
Wiegard, Mantello, Kypsch, Serong,
Wiedeman „and Gabelich.
♦> ❖ <«
“Advocate”: Noticed a wench on the
train resplendent in scarlet polo-neck
sweater, jeans and slippers, with a pony-
tail hair-do tied with an old bootlace.
When they get by with so little, you’d
think they could afford a new bootlace!
►> *i*
“S.H.”: An American expert on the
yo-yo asked a school class, “Wouldn’t
you like to be me?” and then enraptured
it by putting the yo-yo through magical
convolutions in and out of the window
and his pockets. A yo-yo became a
must for every child. In Sydney even
youngsters of Leaving Certificate standard
travel on ferries, buses or trains, yo-yo
in hand: they are absorbing the intri-
cacies of “Walking the Dog” or “Around
the World.” Movements for advanced
study are “Rock the Baby,” “Three-leaf
Clover,” “Texas Star” and “Spinner.”
❖ 4* *
“Flo N.”: One of our regulars has
called. Thought we might be wondering
why she hadn’t been in to keep her season
with the stork. “It’s the old man, Sister.
He’s out there”—nodding Long Bay-ward
—“a proper stretch this time. These
young cops are tough guys, but I’ll be
in soon, now, and I’d like me old possie,
if that’s O.K. with you, Sister.”
♦♦♦ ♦♦+ ❖
“D.A.”: One of N.S.W. Premier
Cahill’s stopcwers in North America was
at Montreal, Canada, where he stayed
in the spanking-new Queen Elizabeth
hotel (or La Reihe Elizabeth to the
French-Canadians), opened a few days
before in the presence of film-stars and
celebrities galore flown in on special
planes. Joe Cahill could note a few things
about this hotel. To start with it is a
“No, it can't be that sack-look, Bill; I think it's just the half-gale
that's blowing."
Canadian National Railways hotel, oper-
ated by Flilton Hotels International. It
is the biggest hotel in the British Com-
monwealth (21 stories), with 1216 rooms.
Each room has a private bath, radio, TV
and individual controls for heating and
air-conditioning. It has five restaurants.
Tariff is from nine dollars a day (£4
Australian) for a single room, 13 dollars
for a double room. Executive suites range
from 85 dollars to 150 dollars a day. The
type of room (or suite) Joe occupied isn't
known, but even the nine-dollar touch
seems better than most hotel accommoda-
tion available in Australia. And all built
with money found by a Government-
controlled railway and airline!
. ♦♦♦ ***
“Gasper”: An elderly man, sitting
back-to-back with me on the tram, was
telling how his doctor had advised him to
ease his smoking. He had admitted to
a huridred a day. The fellow on my left
shoulder grunted his awe. The teller on
my right shoulder wasn’t to be denied:
“I just been up to see him. He asked me
if I’d chopped down on the cigarettes. I
told him I had. ‘How many?’ says he.
‘I was doing a hundred a day,’ I told
him. ‘I chopped ’em right down.’ ‘How
many you doing now?’ he asked me.”
There was a pause behind me while the
teller, a true artist, gave time to let the
effect be felt: “I got ’em cut right down
now. I’m only doing eighty a day!”
♦♦♦
“Sevenelms”: “Rosemary’s” disclosure
at school of Dad’s breadwinning status
(B. 11/6/’5B) was at least voluntary, which
it was not in my day at a G.P.S. Pupils
at first-term beginning filled-in a quiz-
sheet that included father’s occupation,
and even the youngest grasped* the
nuances of “gentleman,” “importer,”
“trader,” “wholesaler” or “retailer.” My
timber-merchant parent, with some
scrubby unstocked acres up in the hills,
might have been astonished to know that
every year his son, hemmed in by young
Hentys, Chirnsides and Fairbairns, trans-
lated him with mendacious pen into the
occupation of “grazier.”
♦♦♦ +♦♦
“P.0.M.C.”: Adjustment' to extremes
of climate may take up to three years to
complete (B. 18/6/’5B). During the Eng-
lish winters of the 1914-18 war (all
severe; one especially so), Australians
frequently got around in shirt-sleeves
while the locals were mufflered to
the eyebrows. Conversely, during the
summers, when temperatures rose to
around 88 degrees, the Diggers sweltered
whil® the Poms merely thought it was
hot. It’s the same with horses. Prac-
tically all imported English nags have
taken two seasons to strike their best
form in Australia. Violoncello, a top-
class performer brought here by Sir Sam
Hordern, behaved like a moderate until
his third season, when he won seven of
our best races in a row, including the
1921 Caulfield Cup with Bst. 131 b.
❖ ❖ *
“D.M.”: An urgent dental appoint-
ment after school —I had the kids all
worded-up: “No hanging round tonight;
scoot as soon as the bell goes.” We were
all sitting up like Jacky, coated, hatted,
cases and bags in our hands, awaiting
the signal—dismissal was silent and swift.
I bolted to the car, some of the boys
carrying my books and basket. Conster-
nation ;no car-key! Frantic searching


of pockets, handbag, floor of car; a race
back to the room; no luck. The boys
scrabbled in the wastepaper-basket. The
staff-room drew a blank. Several other
teachers joined in the hunt. Scotty and
' Daryl sidled up to me. “Dpn’t you
worry,” breathed Scotty hoarsely. “Me
and Daryl know how to cross the wires
—we’ll soon get you started.” Before I
could become their partner in crime the
Head found the key on the time-book.
♦> ♦>
“W.P.T.”: There was quite a line-up
of girls at the Blue Mountains (N.S.W.)
railway-station booking-office asking for
refunds on the return-halves of their
tickets from Sydney. “I wish you girls
would buy only single tickets when you
come to the mountains,” said the railway
official. When my turn came round I
remarked, “It seems strange that so many
girls should want to extend their holiday.”
“Extend nothing,” he replied. “This hap-
pens every holiday weekend. They pirate
young chaps with cars and get a free ride
back home.”
“P.C.R.”: An appliance co. wouldn’f!
appreciate a plug in classified “For Sale”
column of a Brisbane paper. Ad. read:
“ Mixmaster, good, £l6 165., or
exchange for something useful.”
♦X* *i* *x*
“Finder”: Some years ago a firm sell-
ing refrigerators offered £lO on ice-chests
as trade-ins. A woman who answered
the ad. was allowed the £lO, but the agent
didn’t bother collecting the old ice-chest;
it was worthless. So she gave it to her
sister, who also traded it in for a tenner
and passed it on to another sister, who
did the same. The ice-chest remained in
a shed until a couple of weeks ago, when
the last owner traded it in for £2O on a
television-set.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Cricky”: Discussing the installation
of showers-only in Victorian Housing
Commission flats, the chairman of the
commission said: “I’m a shower man
myself, so is my wife. But I’ll admit my
mother, who is getting on in years, won’t
have a bar of the shower —it’s a bath for
her every time.” Besides, everybody’s
wife who wants to live in a Housing
Commission flat may not be a shower
man.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Sevenelms”: Never had change from
a previous tram-fare thrust upon me (B.
11/6/’5B), but once had a silver tea-
service planted in my bunk. Having
become manager of eight logging-camps,
I received in my office at month-end the
Chinese Towkey who operated the eight
camp shops. Nonchalantly he slid across
my desk a large roll of dollar-notes
which, to my query, he explained as the
10 per cent, of all shop-takings that was
exacted by my predecessor. Not com-
pletely surprised, but slightly shaken, I
gently stated that my salary was enough
and I took no squeeze. Three years later
S.S. Tanda finally took me from Borneo,
sailing midnight, and as I turned-in there
was, under the pillow with Towkey’s
card of farewell, the silver
A
+
“5 H.P.”: A Sydney architect was
rather astonished when a New Australian
asked him to draw-up plans and specifica-
tions for a very small fowlhouse, the
migrant having been assured that before
he could keep a few fowls he would have
to submit his plan and details to the
F/ninm f Ut tn rity T ar S
“doni y /v,rv?h e i„ S^> e Say,ng that hc haS
■ "
»♦« * *
.
Maitri : Economy in verbiage is
certainly not a virtue of the average
“Forgive me, All! I just crashed the carpet!”
critic, who seems bent on showing how
clever he is. And some are clever. There
was the Sydney music-critic of 30 years
ago who was never known to write an
unkind * word about an artist, yet the
cognoscenti, after a single reading, knew
if the show reported was excellent, fair
or bloody awful.
*J4 >*«■
’ “Curio”: The most unusual TV-aerial
I’ve seen was on the cabin roof of a
motor-launch moored near the Hawkes-
bury bridge at Windsor (N.S.W.).
+*+ +x*
“Croid”: A visit to the ballet has con-
vinced me that women work
harder than men, the man acting as little
more than a support. The woman also
gets the worst of it in the ballroom; she
always has to go backwards. As for rock
n . r£ ?^ —bodgie just taps his feet while
widgie does handsprings and somersaults
that no man could keep-up for long
without collapsing. Anything to get a
man in the act, I suppose.
❖ *z*
“D.1.M.”: All types of tin-openers
seem to fail in moments of stress, but
the real fifth-column in the kitchen is the
small flat tin containing sardines and still
provided with the “key” that tried the
patience of our great-grandparents. The
trouble is that when the key fails no
other opener seems able to take over.
A bachelor friend simply saws the tin
in half with a meat-saw and, as he points-
out, the contents are evenly divided for
him and his cat. Another friend uses a
sledge-hammer ; a few hefty blows flatten
the tin and force the contents out at the
edges, making it unnecessary to mash
them for sandwiches. Putting the tin
in the lighted oven gives a similar effect,
but it tends to blow the oven-door off
its hinges and necessitates scraping the
sardines off the wall and ceiling.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Jav-R”: To workmates and neighbors
alike he is known as the Glum Chum who
can find no good in Queensland. We were
amazed when a magpie, carpiling on a
sparkling autumn morning, brought the
first spontaneous grin to Glum’s dial.
Head on one side he listened. “By Jingo,
that’s nice." Gradually the look of
delight faded and the old familiar lines
of misery returned. “Just the same, ’tisn’t
a thro-o-o-sh.”


and the Railways
No. 9
r-:'
iS?SSS?i.
m
r-~~ —"*■;
;V '
mu
■M
th
i#-
ij
m
; :
n
%
am
*:&***■
y/:
-4
WM I
*«*■*:'
m
1
•35m.
* ;*:
Sss
m
m
*»*
mt
mm
m
m*
Mi
1
a*
*5
2f^‘
**
s>c
»
»
w
The undermentioned Wool
Selling Brokers gratefully ac-
knowledge the splendid service
accorded them and their country
clients by the New South Wales
Government Railways.
Australian Mercantile Land & Finance
Co. Ltd.
Country Producers’ Selling Co. Ltd.
Dalgety & Co. Ltd.
Elder Smith & Co. Ltd.
(With which is amalgamated Com-
monwealth Wool & Produce &
Nenco Ltd.)
Farmers & Graziers’ Co-op. Grain
Insurance & Agency Ltd.
Goldsborough Mort & Co. Ltd.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile
Agency Co. Ltd.
Pitt, Son & Badgery Ltd.
Schute Bell Badgery Lumby
Ltd.
Winchcombe Carson Ltd,
m
%
5V
7T
UJ
Q
co
<b
v;
P*
-42J
When the season is good, the Railways carry to the giant
wool stores centred at Sydney, Newcastle and Goulburn, a
Golden Fleece more precious than any Jason ever sought.
For twenty-four hours in every day, on hauls averaging more
than 300 miles, it is serving the needs of this most important
of all Australian industries an indispensible link'between
the man-on-the-land and his city 'broker.
But when drought places its dead hand upon the land, with
famine, thirst, loss and hardship following in its wake, a
lifeline of steel reaches out to bring.succour to a parched
land . . . water to be carried to waterless towns . . . starving
stock to be shifted to better pastures . . . fodder to staunch
the flow of death ...
The same railway lines that bring sustenance to a drought-
stricken land are the broad highways down which so much
of the State's primary produce passes on its journey to the
markets of the world.
indeed, the development of primary industry in this State is one
in which the Railways as played and is continuously playing
a vital part.
That is why, in times of drought, the New South Wales
Government Railways brings relief along its lifeline of steel
not pausing in these crises to reckon in terms of profit
and loss.
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT
RAILWAYS
ft**s@2?'


POLITICAL POINTS
It is no wonder that Dr. EvattAs —•
vide the “Sydney Morning Herald” —
“given credit for this bid to restore
unity” at Adelaide. The coming elec--
tion is his last chance of the Prime
Ministership or of anything else save a
place in history as a man of unhappy
memory whose reign wrecked and
divided the Labor party into splinters
and destroyed its platform and its
following.
His position and that of Federal
Labor is all the more unhappy for a
variety of reasons. To go to the coun-
try split with a leader who has been
chased out of his own electorate is bad.
To go with a leader who is openly abused
by a large faction or factions in his own
Parliamentary following is bad. To go
with a leader who has made himself
the champion of the. Four Freedoms'
with the Hursey incident looming to
expose his hypocrisy is disastrousi And
to go without a united party and with
the main finance coming from Leftist
and Communist-led unions which will
call the tune will be fatal.
Labor has not much time to cement
its broken pieces and find an issue and
a leadership which will give it a chance
of even coming back as a reasonably
strong Opposition, much less as a
Government. At most it now has four
months . before the campaign opens
and—possibly only two, for there is
talk now in Canberra of a poll in
October.
• 0
When Menzies toured North Queens-
land on his meet-the-people tour some
Labor M.H.R.s declined his invitation
to accompany him on his trip through
their electorates. Deg Russell, M.H.R.
for Grey (S.A.), wasn’t so foolish. When
the P.M. visited Radium Hill, Whyalla'
and Port Lincoln, he went along, too.
After all, if your political enemy is
attempting a personal-charm campaign in
your territory there’s more sense in going
along with him than in leaving him the
field to himself.
# 0
Bill Ashley, who died in Sydney on
Friday, had been a Senator since 1937.
He was Minister for Information in the
first Curtin Government, 1941-43, Post-
master-General, 1941-45 and Minister for
Shipping and Fuel, 1945-49. He was
Leader of the Government in the Senate
1946-49 and Senate Opposition Leader
1949-51. As a young man he served
in the Boer War with the Bushmen’s Con-
tingent. The Bulletin often criticised
Senator Ashley as a Minister, but. he
bore no illwill. Calling at 252 George
Street a couple of years ago with some
figures to support a statement he had
made in the course of a debate on
unemployment, he mentioned he had
been reading this paper for 50 years.
• •
Under Tom Playford, South Australia
has developed from a purely primary-
industry economy into one in which pro-
cessing and manufacturing play an ever-
growing part. But Playford sees bigger
things ahead, and is afraid even last
year’s population-increase of three per
cent. —the highest in Australia^ —won’t be
high enough to cope with the new indus-
tries planned for the next few years. At
the opening of Wunderlich’s new show-
rooms in Adelaide he foretold “ a big
industrial spurt ” for S.A. in the next
8-10 years.
Referring to Cahill’s trip to America
in search of new industries for New
South Wales, Playford said he hoped
the N.S. Wales Premier would get some,
“ because 80 per cent, of S.A.’s secondary
production was needed to supply N. S.
Wales.”
• •
Senator Ashley’s death emphasises once
again one of the many weaknesses of
the proportional-representation method
of electing the Senate. Until last week,
with five N. S. Wales Senators to be
elected at the next election the most
likely result was two Government, two
Labor and one D.L.P. Senators. With
six Senators now required it is most
probable that the Government will gain
the extra seat.
Mineral exports for 1957 totalled
£69.6 million. Main contributors: lead,
£32 million ; zinc, £9 million ; rutile, £8.6
million; copper, £7 million; coal, £3
million. In announcing these figures
Senator Spooner, Minister for Develop-
ment, said that because of low world
prices the figures for lead and zinc were
not likely to improve this year, though
copper-production was expected to rise.
A day or so after Spooner said this the
Broken Hill Associated Smelters at Port
Pirie announced that from July lit would
cut production by 15 per cent, “as a con-
tribution towards correction of excess
of world supply over world demand.”
Similar reductions were being made by
major producers of lead in other coun-
tries, the statement said.
• •
[From Canberra]
Despite the high cost-of-living and high
taxes, Australians are still a fairly affluent lot,
ir the purchases of motor-cars and household
goods are any indication.
Since June last year they have been buying
an average of 20,000 new motor-vehicles
(mainly cars) every month and the majority
of them have been the middle-range vehicles —
Holdens, Zephyrs, etc. —not in the baby,
“cheap ckss.”
In June, 1957, 17,084 new vehicles were put
on the roads and this figure has steadily
increased, month by month, to 21,234 in May.
In the same period the hire-purchase bill
has soared from £235 million to a record
£283 million (April figures the latest available).
In the 10 months ended April 30, 991,520
new h.-p. agreements were entered into for
goods worth £293 million, of which finance-
companies provided £193 million. Of this
mammoth total, almost one-third of the agree-
ments —294,021 were for motor-vehicles (includ-
ing tractors), valued at £2ll million.
By far the greatest number of agreements
covered household- and personal-goods—TV-
sets, radiograms, washing-machines, refrigera-
tors and the like —a total of 678,400. The
value of the goods covered by these agree-
ments totalled £69 million odd, averaging
about £lOO per agreement.
“It Would be quite unrealistic if We stopped eating them before they stopped
eating us. We cant abandon cannibalism without proper safeguards."


Last act in the Dim Sim oil-comedy
is about to be staged. Queensland
Minister for Justice Munro said last week
that Cabinet had decided to ask the
Supreme Court to wind-up the two com-
panies formed last year to import petrol
from Formosa. One of the grounds on
which the petition to the court will be
based is (hat National Petroleum, Ltd.,
is not carrying on business in good faith
in the interests of the shareholders.
* *
Sir Clifden Eager, the Independent
Liberal who went down in East Yarra to
the endorsed Liberal after a long-standing
row with the party, is 76, and if he had
succeeded would have been 82 when he
next faced the electors in a Victorian
Legislative Council contest. The Liberals
made his defection from vital votes the
principal reason for their dissatisfaction
with Sir Clifden when the break came
six years ago, but age was a contributing
cause. Victorian Libs, are determined to
keep the party, at worst, middle-aged.
Sir Clifden, who had been President
for the past 15 years, qualifies for M.P.’s
pension, as dp all other defeated candi-
dates except j. A. Little (D.L.P.). Quali-
fication requires service for at least six
years and at least three terms. Little
misses by two years.
• •
Now is the time for all good (and some
not-so-good) political tipsters to come to
the party to tell us what the Federal
Budget will be like and when the election
will be held. Racing and football scribes
have their successes and failures as pro-
phets every week. Press-gallery blokes
have only an annual flutter on the Budget
and an election-date to tip once in three
years, but their average isn’t much better.
There was one man in Canberra, of
course, who always correctly tipped the
name of the new Governor-General —but
he died years ago.
• •
Queensland Deputy Premier Morris
found on his trip abroad that a lot of
the Trade Department machinery set-up
by the Commonwealth is hardly being
used. The delegation he led talked to
more than 5000 people overseas, and he’s
hopeful that Queensland will benefit. But
he is insistent that the trade-offices must
be more fully used if Australia as a
whole is to get the best results.
• •
It might be imagined that public ser-
vants would be less concerned than most
people about the advance of automation
—but there’s a bit of a flap on in Can-
berra just now. The Public Service Board
has been asked by a Cabinet sub-com-
mittee to see what savings can be effected
in departmental administration by elec-
tronic data-processing. It mightn’t be a
bad idea if the board started with the
board.
• •
“Arthur R.”: As an example of How-
to-vote in the Victorian State Elections,
the Electoral Office went back to Dickens
for suitable candidates:
CHUZZLEWIT, MARTIN 1
NICKLEBY, NICHOLAS 3
TWIST, OLIVER 2
It is understod that Sykes William with-
drew his nomination early because of
legal troubles. He will probably be avail-
able as a candidate in three years’ time
if his good-conduct marks are maintained.
• •
Labor’s Senate team for N. S. Wales
will in future be chosen by an “electoral
college” system instead of by rank-and-
file ballots.* This was decided at the
annual conference of the State A.L.P.
last month. As the team for the next
Federal election—Senators Arnold and
Amour and J. P. Ormonde —was selected
by the old method, argument is already
raging as to whether or not a new selec-
tion should be made.
• •
Royal Melbourne Technical College is
negotiating in America for the first
nuclear reactor to teach students in Aus-
tralia, on the premise that uranium fuel
will eventually replace coal for boilers.
The reactor, sft. by sft. by 4ft., will pro-
duce heat equivalent to 10 household
radiators and provide training in the use
of larger reactors. Melbourne Tech, began
training TV technicians in 1947, nine
years before the —er —art reached us.
Ronald Mackay, Tech.’s enterprising
principal, says it will take two years to
train staff and threoyears before they
are turning-out engineers and technicians.
• •
Canberra is still considering the Wes-
tralian application for permission to
export iron-ore from Tallering Peak, and
is still not satisfied about the economics
of the charcoal-iron industry which'W.A.
wants to establish in the south-west on
the proceeds from the ore-export. A
Federal Treasury official may be sent to
have a look at the proposal.
• •
Alongside the record deficit on
N. S. Wales Railways (the drought hit
both wheat and wool freights) the, results
of the workings of the tram- and bus-
services seem almost good.- Estimated
deficit for the year is £1,500,000, which is
£75,000 below the Budget estimate. Still,
£ly million down the drain is £H million
down the .drain, whether it’s below the
amount expected or not.
• •
Negro singer Paul Robeson has got his
passport at last. After eight years the
U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that the
State Department regulation under which
it was refused him on the grounds that
he could be “classified as a Communist
or a Communist sympathiser” is invalid.
Robeson plans to go to London. There is
no mention as yet of Moscow.
• •
Open-deck car-parking in Melbourne
has been approved with some reserva-
tions ; the State Uniform Building Regu-
lations Committee has been squeezed into
accepting it because it will double the
parking space now available on ground-
level parking areas. According to the city-
council pencillers, who are always around
Melbourne totting-up, 2400 parking spaces
are needed immediately and another
thousand a year for the next decade.
Councillors have found parking in Mel-
bourne a wonderful problem. Last year
parking revenue yielded £116,000 from
meters, £74,000 from controlled-parking
areas and £104,000 from fines.
This helped considerably in giving the
council a surplus of £BB,OOO for the last
financial year compared with a deficit of
£120,000 in the previous term, when the
meters had hardly begun to lay the golden
eggs. The-council put £95,000 of the
revenue into a fund for off-street parking,
so is sufficiently well-heeled to put up the
open deckers immediately.
• •
“Tamar”: Marriages of minors in
Tasmania were more than 28 per cent,
of all marriages in the State last year,
compared with less than 24 per cent, in
1953. Younger marriages are an Aus-
tralia-wide trend, but the proportion in
Australia over the same period has risen
from only 18.8 per cent, to 22.6 per
cent.' No one seems to know whether
Tasmania’s lead in this field is due to
social forces, fashion or just the climate.
Maybe it’s the longer twilight.
• •
Heligoland, battered in World War I,
shattered in World War II and evacuated
soon afterwards, was used .for target-
practice for some years after 1947. Now
the -Germans have reoccupied it, the
famous ornithological station has been
reconstructed, tourist steamers are run-
ning, and the number of annual visitors
is estimated at 200,000.
• •
Australian oil-refineries are now export-
ing to new markets in New Zealand (92-
million gallons last year—how much this
year?), Singapore, India, Ceylon, the Aus-
tralian' territories, the Philippines and
Spain. This year’s exports are expected
to touch £lO million—a useful figure at
a time when income from other exports
is decreasing in value.
• •
“Ex-ACT”: Primary Industry Minis-
ter McMahon put his best foot forward
in an address to the National Footwear
Promotion Convention in Melbourne. He
talked a lot about boots and shoes, especi-
ally women’s shoes with their “slender
heels, pointed toes and pastel shades.”
Then he remarked that he was speaking
“not as a politician or .possible spouse,
but as an adviser of women who dress
with taste and discrimination”; he
believed that Australian women were at
least as well and tastefully dressed as
those in any other part of the world —
“leaving out a few exceptional cases.”
That remark alone should assure him of
re-election for life.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Retired on June 30 after 14 years as
Chief Commissioner of the N.S.W. Boy
Scouts Association, Major Edward Acton
Lloyd was with the old 4th Bn. at Galli-
poli, and first took to scouting with the
Double Bay (Sydney) Scout-group. In
1951 he was awarded the
Silver Wolf (highest award in
the Scout movement) by Lord
Rowallan, and in 1958 the
0.8. E. He will remain an
honorary commissioner.
• •
According to the R.A.A.F.,
Flying Officer B. J. Avis, who
hails from Goulburn (N.S.W.),
is a rare bird indeed. He is
the first R.A.A.F. pilot to be
attached to the Royal Swedish
Air Force —an appointment
associated with the trials of
the 10 Jindiviks (unmanned
target-aircraft) recently bought
by Sweden. Avis has been on
flying duty with the air-trials
unit at Woomera for the past
year.
• •
Dr. James Perkins, lecturer
in economics at Melbourne
University, has won an award
in the competition organised
by the Committee for Econo-
mic Development in New
York, the subject being “What
will be the greatest problem
in economics to be 'faced by
the U.S. in the next 20 years?”
Dr. Perkins, who suggested
that it should be the improve-
ment of underdeveloped coun-
tries, is English and this is his
second stay in Australia.
He was here in 1950-51 at Melbourne
University as a research-student taking
part of his Cambridge doctorate-course.
From 1953 to 1956 he was Research
Fellow at the National University,
Canberra
• •
Having qualified himself to speak with
authority, Robert Beattie, J.P., of Kil-
marnock, Scotland, says Australia is the
place for the British migrant. A tool-
maker by occupation, here on a scholar-
ship provided by the Imperial Relations
Trust for travel in Australasia, he was
in the R.A.F., studied community organi-
sations at first-hand after the war, wen
a scholarship with a thesis on industrial
relations in Australia, although then he’d
only read about these parts, and as well
gained an industrial-relations degree.
For the current visit he was nominated
by the British Trade Union Congress,
and will write a book about- Australia
for the information of the intending
British migrant.
Taking over command of sth Infantry
Brigade, C.M.F., Cyrus Norman Banner
Peach is the' son of Norman Peach, the
Davis Cup champion. He is in the family
firm of insurance-agents, and among his
other peaceful jobs was chairman of
BRIGADIER
the co-ordinating committee of the first
Sydney Waratah Spring Festival. But
soldiering is an old lure: first, the cadets ;
then in the C.M.F. since 1929; with
2/33rd Battalion in North Africa, Syria,
Papua, New Guinea and Dutch Borneo
during World War II; and command of
the 30th Battalion 1952-55.
• •
Home in Perth after three years’
chemical research in Canada and U.S.,
Dr. Vincent Williams stresses the value
of scientific research -in business. In
America, he says, heads of big firms ear-
mark funds from profits for that purpose.
Williams took his Ph.D. in the Westralian
University before going abroad, and now
goes to the C.5.1.R.0. wool-textile labora-
tories at Geelong.
• •
“O’Johnno”: Five years ago Northern
Territory police-trooper Victor Hall had
to have an eye removed, but retained
sufficient sight in the remaining eye to
enable him to paint and to write short-
stories and books based on his knowledge
and experience of aboriginal and North
Australian life, and thus he has been
supporting himself. Travelling in the
weekly mixed train running between
Darwin and Katherine a couple of months
back he was stung by insect which
flew in through the window and lodged
in the good eye. When the train reached
Katherine nine hours later he was rushed
by ambulance to Darwin, and desperate
efforts were made to save his sight. Now
Hall’s second eye has been removed. A
book, with the title Kodaitcha, which he
had completed before blindness overtook
him, has gone to a London publisher.
• •
Selection of Jack Clarke as
Westralia’s captain for the football cham-
pionships in Melbourne has filled the
tall fair-headed player’s cup of football
honors to the brim. Jack, who plays in
the ruck for East Fremantle, last year's
premiers, has won his club’s Lynn medal
for the fairest and best, the Sandover
Medal (1957) for the league’s fairest and
best, and has twice won an All-Australia
guernsey. This record is all the more
remarkable because Jack is a farmer at
Jennacubbine, 80 miles from Perth, and
seldom trains with his club.
• •
Old-timers in Spring Street, Melbourne,
wonder if the last member of the new
Victorian Parliament to be elected—and
(at 30) the youngest —Robert Max Gillett,
will ever have time to visit Parliament.
He won Geelong West for the Liberals,
the first time they have held it, probably
because he is, despite his comparative
youth for politics, one of the best-known
men in the district: president of the
Geelong Agricultural Society, member of
the Empire Society, the Australian Pri-
mary Producers’ Union, and of other
societies. He is even lieutenant of the
Anakie fire-brigade—no sinecure in Gee-
long West, where the grass burns brightly.
• •
Passed the 90th milestone, old Westra-
fian goldfields identity Bernard Shaw,
who claims to be the nearest living rela-
tive of G.B.S. Going from Victoria, to
the West in 1896, he played a prominent
part, as a company director, in the
development of Westralian goldmining.
His best work was with an American
firm, for which he travelled through the
U.S., Canada and England.
• •
Off to Paris to do exploratory work
for Amoseas (American Overseas Oil),
26-year-old lan Ross Campbell, of Perth
(W.A.), has already sought the dinkum
oil in many places. A B.Sc. of the Wes-
tralian University, he has done much oil-
work throughout the Commonwealth. In
1952 he was with a uranium company
in the NT. and afterwards with the. S.A.
Department of Mines. Two years later
he was doing oil-exploration work in


the Kimberleys. For the past 12 months
he has been with the American firm in
the Philippines.
1 . a •
“Uramao” : Canterbury Agricultural
College, Lincoln (N.Z.), has gone to the
Grassland Research Institute, Hurley,
England, for a professor for its plant-
science and agricultural botany depart-
ment. Dr. R. H. M. Langer, head of
the department of plant-physiology at
Hurley, is 37, had practical experience in
farming in Worcestershire, entered the
University of Durham in 1945 and took
his B.Sc. in agriculture with distinction in
1948. After many big jobs that raised
him among land-men he was British dele-
gate to the International Botany Congress
in Paris in 1954, and was awarded the
Kellogg Foundation Fellowship in 1955
to visit the U.S.A. to absorb fresh
knowledge.
« •
First Malayan student to qualify as
an associate in mechanical engineering
from Perth Technical College, Oh Siew
Min, who has been in Westralia since
1951, was cheered and chaired at the
graduation ceremony. He will soon return
home to Penang, with work as a mechani-
cal engineer his main objective.
• •
Arthur Shoebridge, N.S.W. Commis-
sioner for Government Transport, sees
his duty as trying to follow the wishes
and dictates of U-million customers, most
of whom make it pretty plain that they
think they know more about the job than
he does. He’s also a pro-bus man in
BUS-MAN
the bus-v.-tram argument, which means
he is regularly run-over by the tram
faction. Still, he’s got an army of bus-
fanciers on his side —as well as a sense
of humor, an unruffled approach to
trouble, the ability to put his own views
very forcibly, if need be, a lifetime in the
N.S.W. public service, and World War
I with the A.I.F.
One of the most interesting admissions
to the Victorian Bar in recent years has
been that of Commander Laurance Fitz-
gerald Winch, moved by Trevor Rapke,
Q. an old mess-mate in H.M.A.S. Aus-
tralia, with J. A. Lewis from the Air
Force as his junior, and granted (probably,
with alacrity because of all this martial
array) by the State Full Court.
Winch, who is now secretary to the
Flag Officer, Eastern Area, Sydney, was
440yds. open swimming champion of
Victoria in 1940. He was assistant to
Trevor Rapke (secretary to Rear-Admiral
Farncomb) in the Australia (attached to
the American Task Force, and in the
Coral Sea and Gaudalcanal shows). He
first began to learn law in those exciting
times, continued his studies in England,
and this year was admitted to the English
Bar from Gray’s Inn.
He is married to Elizabeth Fry, whose
courage was responsible, when she was
an A.N.A. air-hostess, in saving 19 pas-
sengers from the Kurala, the airliner
which crashed in 1948 at Mt. Macedon,
near Melbourne, killing both pilots. She
was admitted to honors, too —by, among
others, Lloyd’s.
© a
Buffaloes, crocodiles, kangaroos, wild
turkeys and other Territorians are hereby
notified that the first “safaris” of Darwin
Safari and Territory Tours Pty., Ltd., are
expected to start some time in September.
The man behind the expeditions is Allan
Stewart, now of Sydney but hailing ori-
originally from Edinburgh, where his
father was R.S.M. in the Black Watch.
Allan Stewart maintained the family
tradition and at the end of World War
II was a company-commander in the
2/Ist Bn.; he is now a major in the
Byron Scottish Regiment, C.M.F, He saw
a good deal of the Territory as public-
relations consultant for Territory Rice,
Ltd., at Humpty Doo.
• e
Retirement, at 71, of W. Wauhop has
caused a redistribution of seats in the
Westralian Licensing Court. Wauhop,
chairman of the court since 1949, is
succeeded by former R.S.L. State presi-
dent W. J. Hunt, who has been a member
of the court since 1949. The new chair-
man served in both world wars, and'was
R. State president from 1947 to
1950. The new member, William Moun-
tain, came to Australia in 1923 after war
service with the British in Egypt and
France, joined the Westralian Govern-
ment Railways, and is a past-president of
the Midland District Council of the
A.L.P.
• •
Herewith Ovenden’s sketch of Pro-
fessor R. Douglas (better known as Pan-
zee —short for Chimpanzee) Wright, Pro-
fessor of Physiology at Melbourne
University. He is a pillar of the University,
kindly, intelligent, opiniated On personal
and civil liberties, and a great battler for
them ; and, withal, immensely popular.
Born in Hobart, he had a remarkably
brilliant student-career at Hobart Uni-
versity and Melbourne University, held
many posts at Melbourne hospitals, and
BATTLER
in 1939, when he accepted his present
Chair, was one of the assistants of Sir
Howard Florey, the co-discoverer of
penicillin.
One of his special interests is a medical-
insurance scheme under which a number
of doctors would work as a team for an
organisation run by the doctors and sub-
scribers themselves. Also, he holds that
Australia will always have fewer
graduates than it needs in the profes-
sions—except medicine, the best paid—
because they are so ill-rewarded.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 57, E. D. Roper, Justice of
the Supreme Court of N.S.W., and Chief
Judge in Equity and Probate Judge Supreme
Court since 1947. He had been a judge for
over 20 years; was, in fact, a judge at the
age of 36.
In Sydney, at 72, W. P. Ashley, Senator
for N.S.W. since 1937. He was Opposition-
leader in the Senate 1950-51, was P.M.G.,
1941-45, and held other Cabinet posts.
At Coolah (N.S.W.), at 80, George Godfrey
Wentworth, grandson of William Charles
Wentworth. An authority on fishing, both
fly and deep-sea, and in his younger days a
noted polo-player.
In Adelaide, at 69, T. M. Waddy, after a
half-century association with shipping-concerns
having been secretary of the Adelaide Steam-
ship Co., Ltd., and chairman of the State
Committee of Overseas and Interstate Ship-
owners. A former district cricketer with
Glenelg (S.A.) and Manly (N.S.W.), he had
been S.A. Cricket Association trustee and
S.A. proxy delegate to the Australian Cricket
Board of Control.
In Perth, at 57, Alexander Mackillop,
Comptroller-General of Prisons in Westralia.
He came as Deputy Comptroller from the
N.S.W. Gaols Department in 1944 and made
many improvements in Westralian penal
establishments.
At Ulverstone (Tas.), at 88, Thomas Wilson,
father of Sir Roland Wilson (secretary to the
Treasury). Arriving in Australia 70 -years ago,
he became a master builder. Ulverstone Town
Hall is one example of his work.


ABORIGINALITIES
/''Overhead in a cafe in Central Queens-
land a bearded old bloke roaring for
another plate of sandwiches: “And lissen,
leave the bark on ’em this time! ”
“Ohm.”
* * * *
“Bilwon”: Timber-cutters on the
Atherton Tableland (N.Q.) have fallen
the biggest black-walnut in the history
of the northern jungle. The trunk had a
girth of 31ft. at 10ft. from the ground.
The log was too big to be carted to
Rosenfeld and Meixner’s sawmill at
Ravenshoe, so it was carted out of the
scrub in flitches. Walnut is now mostly
used for veneer. Millers don’t like
putting their big saws into the logs. The
sap is hard on the teeth and makes them
very brittle. The damming of the Barron
River at Tinaroo, and the Tully at Koom-
booloomba will submerge thousands of
acres of valuable timber country, and
the axes are flashing in the tropical sun
as the fallers race against time to get
the millable trees out before the water
covers them.
* * * *
. “Emel”: The best fishing luck that
F. W. Rodda, of Horsham (Vic.), ever
had was when, using whitebait, he caught
two half-pound perch on the one hook.
Apparently they snatched together at the
bait, for the hook was through the lips
of both.
* * * *
“M’Lou”: It was closed season for
cod, but they were biting, so Hutch took a
chance. He had one beauty tethered near
the water’s edge and was returning from
camp with a fresh supply of bait when
he saw a fisheries-and-game inspector
coming. With great presence of mind he
tied his bait to short lengths of line and
was innocently—and obviously—trying
for yabbies when the inspector reached
him. “That cod,” he began accusingly.,
“You must know it’s out of /Season
and” “Yes,” agreed Hutch, “but he
kept pestering me so, eating up my yabby
bait, that I just tied him there so I could
get a few yabbies in peace.” And with
bland, seeming indifference he saw his
big cod freed to swim away.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: The move to make Boyd-
town on Twofold Bay a popular resort
recalls that it was here that Benjamin
Boyd first introduced Kanakas into Aus-
tralia. He employed them at Boydtown
as laborers and also sent many of them
to his Monaro properties to work as
shepherds. They couldn’t stand up to
the severe winter of Monaro, and that,
added to the harsh treatment by some of
“Brings in every bird personally."
Boyd’s foremen, resulted in many of them
clearing out. Some found their way back
to Sydney and became such a nuisance
that their deportation was ordered by
the Government.
* * * •
“Q. Ree”: Australians don’t know how
lucky they are with two dog-catching
organisations (B. 28/5/’5B). In Fiji we
have mobs of stray dogs and no fences.
Readers don’t need much imagination to
know how hideous our nights can be.
Not to mention stray bitches having stray
pups under inaccessible parts of our
houses—with the resultant flea-plagues.
* * * •
“Margaret”: Have often heard of fish
or frogs appearing in unlikely places
after sudden storms, giving rise to the
belief that they came down with the
rain; but when half-grown rabbits
appeared scampering about on the home-
stead roof I began to wonder. I found
they were being caught and carted up
there by the station cat, evidently with
a view to keeping the food fresh till
he felt hungry.
* * * *
“Wandana”: Hebe Reef, just outside
Tamar Heads (Tas.), is to have a modern
radar-beacon installed by Launceston
Marine Board to replace the old-type
cigar-shaped buoy which has done ser-
vice down the years. The danger-spot
gets its name from the ship Hebe, which
hit it 150 years ago, but a good many
other fine vessels have piled-up on it
since, including the barques Philip Oak-
den (1851), Asterope (1883) and Eden-
holme (1907). The Philip Oakden, built
at Blackwall, on the Tamar, was on her
maiden voyage from London to her
Tasmanian home-port. A 307-tonner,
she carried at her bows a figurehead of
Philip Oakden, a Launcestonian who, in
addition to having played a prominent
part in the formation of the Bank of Van
Diemen’s Land, the Tamar Bank, the
Union Bank of Australia and the old
Launceston Savings Bank, was also
treasurer of the Launceston Ship Build-
ing Co., which started in 1848 and died
three years later after its first (and only)
ship smashed-up.
* * * *
“Miss M.”: I’ve inveighed for years
against radio-announcers and others who
spoil the rippling music of the name
“Collarenebri” by inserting a “d” and
calling it “Collarendabri.” Now my
Wrath has a new target—the unknown
who, on a map in a Bulletin advertise-
ment (B. 28/5/’5B), spelt it “Collarinebri.”
Not that \ the inhabitants are likely to
object; to many of them it’s known
simply as “Colly,” just as the even more
mellifluous Pallamallawa is (Heaven
help us!) “Pally.”
* * * *
“Manamoi”: For years I gave the
palm for apt phrase-making, bush-style,
to the bloke who described a certain


THE KIA-ORA EXPEDITION


cast of countenance as “like a rat looking
through bulrushes”; but now he has a
rival. A bachelor who lives alone among
big timber rode up to a neighbor’s home-
stead, his eyes and nose just visible
between about four months’ growth of
hair and a fortnight’s beard, both rather
grizzled. Th neighbor greeted him with,
“Strike me, Jack, y’ look like a mouse
peepin’ out of an old saddle!”
* * * *
“Heresome”: The Bindaboos were not
the first people to eat fox (B. 4/6/’5B).
Examination of their kitchen middens
has shown that the Swiss lake-dwellers of
about 10,000 years ago fell back on
Reynard when other tucker was scarce.
In any case, young foxes have practically
no scent; the old dog, like the old billy-
goat, gives the whole clan a reputation it
doesn’t deserve.
* • * *
“Jacjma”: Wild duck, particularly grey
(black) duck and grey teal, which pre-
sumably knew nothing of Lennox
Walker’s forecast of heavy rains in June,
still had some instinctive knowledge of
the breaking of the prolonged drought in
our part of Queensland. For several
weeks past, in spite of extremely dry con-
ditions and very little surface-water,
courting and mating seemed to indicate
that the birds would shortly have suitable
conditions for the rearing of their broods.
Flocks have been settling on dried-out
paddocks to feed, apparently on the
abundant seed of wild millet. Now, with
lagoons brimming and the creek a two-
thirds banker, one’s faith in the ducks
as weather-prophets is restored.
* * * *
“Miss M.”: When Mrs. Battista
attended our pre-maternity clinic her
husband came along as interpreter. A
lone male amid dozens of mothers in
various stages of expectancy, he waited
his turn, cheerful and unabashed, and
answered Sister’s carefully phrased ques-
tions with an earthy directness that
brightened the day for us all. Return-
ing from leave to find that Bambino
Battista had arrived, I asked a colleague
its name. “Orlean Plum,” she said. “At
least, we’ve all asked its mother, and
that’s what it sounds like.” Pappa brought
enlightenment. “We name her,” he told
Matron, “for you and Sister Brown.”
We looked speculatively at Matron’s well-
rounded figure and florid complexion.
Orlean Plum? Oh, of course—Aileen
Pam.
* * * *
“Frangeo”: Surely “Brick E.” (B.
11/6/’5B) was a bit off the beam in
saying the Central Brick and Tile Co.
hadn’t made tiles for many years? As
far as I know, the co. has been making
tiles for the past 30-odd years, but has
stopped making bricks.
* * * •
“Mugga Way”: Two States and the
Commonwealth are to co-operate in a
systematic study of the living-conditions
of about 600 nomadic aborigines in the
Rawlinson Ranges area. The S.A. party,
led by the Protector of Aborigines, has
already left Adelaide, and it will link
with a Commonwealth party from the
Northern Territory and a party from
W.A. The tribes concerned wander
unconcerned over State boundaries, enjoy
occasional tribal fights, and have little
contact with white people. The expedi-
tion will check on diet and health, and
consider such possible amenities as a
jvelfare-centre and supplementary rations.
“The wind blows it sideways.
BLACK BEETLE
/ remember leaving —
The chairs strung over the doors and the
rugs on tables,
The untidy suitcase of clothes and the
wedding-licence
Like a jewel that l wanted to bring; my
husband laughing
To think that 1 couldn’t feel legal without
the licence.
Our driving sounded
Like a put-put boat, the exhaust of the
jeep under water:
Thistle-heads by the side of the road our
only marker.
We ploughed a furrow over the flood
between them
And our eyes held fast the approximate
point of arrival.
We won our landfall,
That place where the road lifted dry from
the sweep of the river,
Safe with the stock and the jeep and
the wedding-licence,
Shedding the home back there in our
thin survival,
Leaving our bed and our hearth to the
encircling river.
It was then I saw him
There at the edge of the richly red-brown
back swirl
That lapped at the thistle-stems with
*► fawn foam and grass straws
On a stick that had made him a craft, a
round black beetle
Clung, drifting this way and that,
becalmed on the harbor.
Bravo, Beetle!
Seeing no shore, yet knowing the need
for action
He dropped from his raft and struck out
into the water
Broke in a widening arc from his
blundering circles
Setting, as surely as we did, that day’s
brave pattern.
N.S.W,
NANCE RICHARDS.


The magpie-population in our A.C.T.
district comes under the surveillance
of a wild-life survey unit for ecological
study. Most of the birds wear numbered
leg-bands for identification. Colored pins,
representing each bird, are placed on a
map of the area. This indicates the
whereabouts and facilitates the study of
each bird in the colony. Magpies in
“technicolor” sometimes baffle the
stranger with their dyed plumage. This
is done to signify the different groups of
families and sub-families within the
colony. But now the artificial coloring
has been discontinued because of many
cases of mistaken identity when people
seeking confirmation of the crossing of
magpies with parrots, etc., set about catch-
ing these rare “specimens” for Sir Edward
Hallstrom's collection. The maggies
themselves appear quite unconcerned.
Perhaps they know the worst that can
befall them is to be branded on
the map if they stray from the colony.—
“Kinta.”
“I have the feeling I owe someone an apology."
“Sayeeda”: Kangaroo-shooting is quite
an industry in Queensland —it is now
earning about £200,000 a year in hard
currency from exported skins. There’s
been a steady rise in the number of
shooters —from 1100 in 1954 to 2466 in
1957—and in their bag. Most of the
shooting is over the cooler months, end-
ing in September. Shooters are licensed
for a fee of £l, and an open season is
declared throughout the year, but where
kangaroos are causing serious damage on
a property the licence-fee may be waived.
* * * *
“Pelican”: Two new fauna sanctuaries
have been declared in North-west Queens-
land —the Lake Corella sanctuary, at
Mary Kathleen, and the Leichhardt River
dam, at Mt. Isa. In making the announce-
ment, O. O. Madsen, Queensland Minister
for Agriculture and Stock, said that the
two companies operating in these areas,
Mt. Isa Mines, Ltd., and Mary Kathleen
Uranium, Ltd., had originally suggested
the sanctuaries, and had co-operated with
the department in other ways in the
matter.
* * * *
“Wusslean”: How long can the ordi-
nary domesticated cat survive without
either food or water? Returning home
after an 18-days’ absence, we found that
our tabby had been confined in a small,
bare cupboard in the laundry for all that
time. Within a fortnight it appeared none
the worse for its experience.
• * * *
r T''His year a fascinating old house on
the Hume Highway in the little vil-
lage of Bookham, southern N. S. Wales,
was the scene of centenary celebrations
of the Julian family, descendants of Rich-
ard Julian, the man who introduced the
Merino into that area.
The old house, now Bogalong home-
stead, was an inn and stagecoaching
house. It is of that gracious design seen
at intervals along the Hume Highway
between Sydney and Albury—straight
Colonial front with a row of high attic
windows, and built to last for ever.
Travelling toward Albury, Bookham
is 22 miles from Yass, heart of the Merino
country, but until Richard Julian bought
Bogalong 100 years ago (price £2500) no
Merino had penetrated out there beyond
Bowning Hill, regarded in those days as
wild, dangerous country fit only for
cattle.
There was no Bookham village then.
It was called Bogalong village, described
by “Banjo” Paterson as “a pub at each end
and nothing in the middle.” There is
only middle now —no pub at each end.
Two versions are given- of how Bog-
along was changed to Bookham.
Lady Franklin, touring through the
State, camped one night at Bogalong and
is said to have remarked on the number
of books on the shelves and the hams
hanging from the roof.
The other version is the quite straight-
forward naming of the little cluster of
buildings after Bookham in Surrey by
some homesick wanderer.
The Julians did not always live in the
big old house on the highway. Richard
Julian built a cottage called The Point
on his land between the village and My-
lora station. It was some years before he
and his family moved into the present
Bogalong homestead.
Paterson was a frequent guest at Boga-
long, for Richard Julian knew him well.
A few years ago Richard Julian died, but
he had lived to have the pleasure of
unveiling a bust of the poet in Banjo
Paterson Park, Yass.
His son, John Julian, present master of
Bogalong and head of the family, recalls
how his father used to delight in telling
this story about one of Paterson’s visits
to Bogalong races.
Bogalong races were usually the scene
of a good old-fashioned “blue” between
Church stalwarts full of rum, excitement
and sectarianism. Riding home after the
races past Mylora station, vague with his
muse, “Banjo” heard the old groom’s
Irish voice: “Who won, Mr. Paterson?”
“Why, Pardon won, Sam.” “No, Mr.
Paterson ; who won ’tween those heathen
Protestants and us good Catholics?”
Another link nearby with Paterson is
Illalong, his former home, still kept in
good repair by the present owner, Cecil
Grogan.
An unexpected sidelight on history was
the first death in old Bogalong village.
This was a nephew of Nelson- —Horatio
Nelson Matcham, son of Nelson’s favorite
sister, Kitty. Matcham’s gravestone is the
oldest in the churchyard at St. Clement’s
Church, Yass.
Turning from history to Australian
literature, there is a link between Book-
ham and Miles Franklin. Near Bookham
is a steep incline called Miles Pinch,
adjacent to Bogalong station. The Miles
family were relations of Miles Franklin,
and Miles Pinch is the origin of her
Christian-name.
B.H.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
{lncorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £81,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office (or Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Auitralia.
Busines, Rolery, Etc.
Manufacturing Activity
Tn its useful and increasingly
•*- informative Survey of Manu-
facturing in Australia, the De-
partment of Trade sums-up to
the effect that although expan-
sion of employment and pro-
duction over the past 18
months has not been so rapid
as in the years before 1952-53,
nevertheless it is continuing,
and activity has been main-
tained at high level.
There is a general firmness
in demand, which flows mainly
from the relatively high level
of building activity and the
high consumer - demand for
motor-vehicles and household
appliances. Manufacturers of
some non-durable consumer-
goods, notably textiles, how-
ever, report a reduction in
sales.
A reasonably high level of
manufacturing activity is ex-
pected to continue, although
there is a general belief in the
industry that trading conditions
will remain very competitive
during a period of lower farm
incomes and export returns.
Expansion is slower, but
production is increasing, helped
by new and more efficient
machines, which, with newer
processes and improved tech-
niques, have enabled higher
output to be achieved at lower
cost, particularly in terms of
labor.
Industrial capacity has
expanded and for the present
seems to be rather ahead of
demand, generally speaking.
Banks and Unit Trusts
"Cntry of the Bank of New
South Wales into the unit-
trust field will be not only a
third new development in the
bank’s compass of operations;
it will be a stimulus to invest-
ment (indirectly) in Stock Ex-
change securities by people pre-
viously unacquainted with
Stock Exchange dealings.
The ’Wales was the first of
the trading-banks to establish
a savings-bank offshoot; it
followed others in acquiring a
large investment in an estab-
lished hire-purchase concern ;
and now it will participate in
the formation of The Wales
Unit Investment Pty. Each
branch of the bank will act
as agent for the trust, and a
company will be appointed
custodian trustee for the unit-
holders.
Australian investors are
estimated already to have put
in excess of £3O million into
unit-trusts since World War 11,
particularly over the past four
years.
Following the press-release
by the ’Wales, Universal
Flexible Investments (N.S.W.)
Pty., Ltd., announced an opera-
tional link-up with the A.N.Z.
Bank. The Second Universal
Flexible Trust will accept in-
vestments in N.S.W. from July
1 through any branch of the
A.N.Z. Bank, and A.N.Z.
Nominees, Ltd., are the trustees
for the unit-holders.
This Second Universal
Flexible Trust will have a
spread of over 100 investments,
with an initial duration of 15
years, which may be extended
for further periods of 15 years.
Proceeds from “rights” will not
be distributed ; rights will be
taken-up, or proceeds from
them will be reinvested.
The managers may buy rights
and take up new issues, and
the trust differs in other respects
from the “fixed” trusts. No
money will be invested in
hotels, breweries, mines or oil-
prospecting cos.
Share-purchases must be
spread over at least 10 share-
brokers, and not more than
20 p.c. of its business may be
done with any one broker.
The First Universal Flexible
Trust has been in existence for
2\ years, and investments in it
have reached nearly £2 million.
Since its inception dividends
have been paid at the rate of
7 p.c. p.a. and the unit price
has risen from the original
“par” by 17 p.c.
The managing co. for First
Universal (Universal Flexible
Trusts Pty., of Melbourne),
has three actuaries on the
“ Gentlemen, I move We raise our directors' fees again in
accordance with the C-series cost-of-living index."
board, and the manager (E. S.
Knight) is also an actuary.
[The A.N.Z. will also accept
applications for investment in
Security Units, a long-estab-
lished N.S.W. concern.]
Australian United Group
A ustralian United Corpora-
A ton, which operates in
Melbourne under the chair-
manship of lan Potter and
managership of Colin S. Me-
Kay, has announced that one
of its subsidiaries, Australian
United Acceptance Pty., is
increasing its capital in order
to press on with its develop-
ment of a short-term money-
market in Australia.
Nominal capital of the
Acceptance co. will be increased
to £1 million, and A.U.C. will
take 500,000 partly-paid shares
in a new issue
The Accentance co will be
Ihe Acceptance co. will be
a m7 r n^r d h. 1 f d v?ilarrfurf
, ;t „ f inn opr
S a if” °Tnf ZfLT,
, .° p , . .. , .
will be invested in gilt-edged
securities, bqt as the supply of
bills for discount and other
short-term paper grows, a
greater proportion of the
funds will be invested in this
„„„
Way.
The Australian United
Corporation, Ltd., is thus
spreading its activities beyond
the sphere of underwriting and
acquisition of blocks of shares
in public cos. In addition to its
controlling-interest in the
Acceptance co., another
member of the group, Aus-
tralian United Development,
will provide finance for grow-
ing businesses not listed on
the Stock Exchange. Equity-
or loan-capital can be pro-
vided. Other members of the
group are Australian United
Enterprises Pty., and Aus-
tralian United Underwriting
Co. Pty.
The story of Australian
United Corporation, Ltd.,
started back in 1948, when
Tokenhouse Pty., Ltd., was
formed and earned substantial
profits from sub-underwriting
activities through a subsidiary.
It also accumulated a large
parcel of public-co. invest-
ments. In 1953 Australian
United Underwriting Co. Pty.,
Ltd., was formed by Token-
house, with members of the
firm of W. lan Potter and Co.
subscribing for a minority
shareholding. It had an initial
subscribed capital of £61,500.
At this point Tokenhouse
changed its name to Australian
United Investment Co., Ltd.
Last year Australian United
Underwriting Corporation was
floated into a public co. under
the title of Australian United
Corporation, and shareholders
in Australian United Invest-
ment Co. were offered one 10s.
share at par in the recon-
structed co. for every two ords.
or B ords.) they held.
Prior to the public float, the
Investment co. revalued its
assets in the Underwriting co.


FtUih ill Mic
fiuitif+e
mm
All my life it has been one of my cherished
dreams to visit the Holy Land.
I told myself I would like to see the place
where Christ was born and walked, taught and was
crucified: the land from which His Apostles went
out and where Saul of Tarsus was stricken to
conversion, to become the great Saint Paul.
My attraction to it across the years was
heightened by the fact that so many streams of
history had come to flow in this poor yet rich
portion of the earth. It is sacred to the Jew and
the Moslem, as well as to the Christian.
But my personal interest in Palestine has been
in wanting to see where history was shattered—
and made anew—with the coming of Christ.
The wish, once so distant in my mind, has
become more insistent in these recent years when,
as it seems to me, the very Faith of man is in
challenge. Belief or its outright denial is basically
the issue of our time. And for the Christian the
essence of it is in the events of that brief span of
years between Bethlehem, Calvary and the Mount
of Olives.
Wars have raged for centuries in the land where
the Gospel of goodwill among men was given. In
our own day the uneasy frontiers of bordering
nations hem it in and cut its paths. And Christianity,
spread through the world, survives every crisis.
Now I have decided to make the journey.
For the Christian the story of the Holy Places
is without dimension. To convey more than a small
part of it is more than I could hope to do.
So with all humility I shall write the brief
impressions of an Australian walking the Way.
As I start on my journey I feel there will be many
readers of this column who will be with me in spirit.
and made a one-for-two bonus-
issue.
Australian United Corpora-
tion now wholly owns Aus-
tralian United Development,
Australian United Enterprises,
and partly owns Australian
United Underwriting Corp.
Australian United Investment
Co. still partly owns Australian
United Corporation itself.
The latest development,
through Australian United
Acceptance, of a discount-
house will be interesting to
watch. Things are stirring in
the Australian financial world
as well as in the industrial
world. This particular (A.U.C.)
development seems to be aii-
Australian, or nearly "So.
On Melbourne ’Change the
10s. ords. of Australian United
investment Co. are selling at
around 15s. Those of Aus-
tralian United Corp. (10s. also)
have been fetching 255. 6d.
The latter co. has particularly
strong reserves in relation to
capital.
A.M.P. Fire and General
/"\n. September 1 the A.M.P.
Society's wholly-owned
new offshoot, A.M.P. Fire and
General Insurance Co., Ltd.,
will start writing fire and
general accident insurance. The
old-established United in-
surance Co. will be managing-
agent for the new co., and
business will be conducted from
United premises in the capital
cities and main country centres,
and through the A.M.P.’s
nation-wide field organisation.
In the United Kingdom the
writing of fire and accident
insurance by life-offices has
been an established custom for
many years, but Australian
mutual assurance societies have
not favored it until lately. The
National Mutual entered the
field last year. Some of the
semi - mutual offices, like
the Australasian Catholic
Assurance, long ago found
insurance a useful contributor
to earnings and funds, as well
as spreading field expenses over
a larger revenue. The A.P.A.
is also a fire-and-accident risk
underwriter.
The precise nature of the
United's working-arrangement
with the A.M.P.’s offshoot has
not been announced. No
doubt, for the present, the
A.M.P. is content to regard the
offshoot as a bound-to-grow
par investment.
National Mutual Nominees
IyrATioNAL Mutual Life
Nominees Pty., Ltd.,
registered on May 13, is now
carrying on business “as trustee
for the holders of (or otherwise
in relation to) any debentures,
bonds, shares, stocks or
debenture-stock issued or to be
issued by any company or
authority.”
This is another of the
developments which have taken
place in the recent upsurge of
financial activity in Australia,
much of it centred round such
old-established institutions as
the National Mutual Life Asso-
ciation. Last year the
N.M.L.A. formed its own fire-
and-accident office.
Tecnico Recovery
/’"'Vne of the pleasanter sur-
prises' of the present
financial year has been the
recovery in the earnings of
Tecnico, Ltd., in which the
world-wide Pye organisation
acquired a controlling-interest
in October, 1955.
Profit for the year to March
31 was £423,844, after tax and'
depreciation, compared with
£113,728 for the nine months
to March 31, 1957, and losses
in the preceding two years.
Tecnico will now pay-off 35-
years’ arrears of pref. divs., pay
the current pref. div., and hand
the ords. 5 p.c. Total div.-
requirements of £81,213 will be
over five times covered by the
year’s profit.
Allowing for one year’s pref.
div. requirements, last year’s
Tecnico profit was equal to
57 p.c. on ord. capital.
Paid capital is £910,500 in
40,000 1\ p.c. cum. prefs. and
•145,000 5 p.c. 2nd cum. prefs.
and 725,500 ords., all of £1
each.
Manufacture of Pye TV and
transmission equipment has
apparently had a good deal to
do with the recovery in earn-
ings. Admiral, of the opposi-
tion, in which General Indus-
tries has a half-share, has also
earned spectacular profits
during the past couple of years.
Hills Hoist Flotation
Tnstead of a lean, weather-
beaten youth with a horse-
andreart patrolling suburban
streets on a Monday morning
calling-out “Clothes - prop!
Clothes-prop!” at the top of
his lungs, today we have a
million-pound company in
Adelaide providing backyard
clothes-drying facilities by
means of a well-organised
distribution-service throughout
the country.
It is quite a striking service.
To see a Hills Hoist team in
action installing a rotary
clothes-hoist is to get a preview
of perpetual motion. Every-
thing seems to be done at the


NO SINGLE ROM GAN MATCH IT!
RED JACK RUM
o
BED JACK
*turn*
£
BLENDED FROM QUEENSLAND’S
CHOICEST 7-YEAR-OLD
POT-STILL RUMS. NO “SINGLE”
RUM CAN MATCH IT
Specially blended by
John Dewar & Sons Ltd., Sydney and
Harbottle Brown & Co. Pty. Ltd., Sydney
I
f
DWB7
THE “WILD CAT’*
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/,-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
trot, with each action of the
team of riggers, every measure-
ment of cement or wire, every
bit of cutting or digging
accurate and non-stop. Then,
with the hoist securely in
position, and with a few parting
words of advice to the house-
wife, the team lopes-off through
the gate, into the truck, then
on its way to the next job.
It all began in 1946, when a
partnership was formed by
Lancelot L. Hill and H. E. H.
Ling to manufacture rotary
clothes-hoists at Glen Osmond,
in S.A. Today the organisation
(three manufacturing sub-
sidiaries and eight distributing
offshoots) has an annual turn-
over nearing £2 million, with
an B|-acre factory-site at
Edwardstown (S.A.), where
manufacturing is centralised,
and with freehold distributing-
centres in each Australian
capital-city.
In June, 1957, Hills In-
dustries, Ltd., was registered
in Adelaide, and the co. has
since acquired all the capital
of Hills Hoists, Ltd., by the
issue of £750,000 of fully-paid
ords. and £250,000 of 8 p.c.
registered unsecured notes
which will be converted into
ords. between July 1, 1962, and
June 30, 1968.
Paid-up capital of Hills
Hoists, Ltd., is only £170,000,
including a recent capitalisation
of £50,000. But total tangible
assets, including £421,616 of
unappropriated profits, at June
30, 1957, were £599,578. It is
estimated that £150,000 of tax-
paid profits will have accumu-
lated since then, making total
net tangibles £749,578, out of
which no div. will be paid for
1957-58, the profits for the
year being retained to finance
expansion.
On these figures net tangibles
amount to 3s. 9d. per ss. stock-
unit on the assumption that the
8 p.c. notes are converted into
stock. A revaluation of plant
would take the backing up to
4s. Id. per stock-unit.
Profit-earning, allowing for
tax at public-co. rates and
deducting interest on the 8 p.c.
notes, has been at the rate of
12.2 p.c. (1954), 12.4 p.c.
12.2 p.c. and 13.7 p.c. (1957)
on a capital of £750,000. The
1957-58 profit is estimated at
not less than 17.3 p.c. on such
a capital.
Chairman H. E. H Ling
anticipates a dividend of at
least 84 p.c. p.a. and that
the first div. will be paid in
February, 1959.
In order to qualify as a
public co. for taxation purposes,
a placement of 600,000 ss.
stock-units is being made at
ss. 3d. net, plus stamp-duty.
Employees and distributors
have priority in application in
this placement.
Manufacture of clothes-
hoists is still the major activity,
but the co. is also now one of
the leading producers and
marketers of TV antenna\
Further diversification has
been achieved through a grow-
ing business in the manufacture
of electronic accessories, house-
hold equipment, laundry
prams, children’s playgrounds,
folding tubular-steel chairs and
other products.
At the Edwardstovyn factory,
where there is still space for
expansion, the group now
operates its own steel-tube
mill and aluminium-tube mill,
a galvanising works, a cad-
mium-, nickel- and chrome-
plating plant, a modern
aluminium-alloy foundry, and
a plastics- section, which is
making all the TV insulators
used in the business and a
variety of other products. These
works are partly engaged on
outside contracts.
“The policy of maximum
manufacturing self-sufficiency,”
the board reports, “has enabled
the business to achieve eco-
nomies of production which
have made it possible to market
its products competitively over-
seas, as well as throughout
Australasia. The policy of
direct sales-representation has
also enabled the management
to maintain close contact with
distributors and market
requirements not only in metro-
politan areas, but, through
country branches, in rural
communities as well.”
It is clear from the accumu-
lation of profits in the business
that high earnings have been
made on a small capital in the
past. It seems equally clear that
the management has been keen
and thrifty. It would also
appear to be farseeing in its
later policy of diversification
of output, since, although no
figures are given as to the total
Hills hoists sold in any year,
there appear to be ultimate
limits .to this market within
Australia. Fewer than 70,000
homes are being . erected
annually, and at present Hills
appear to be selling many more
units than that each year, draw-
ing on the backlog of homes
already built.
But the export market has
clear possibilities, and there
would seem to be great scope in
the tubular-steel section
generally. It will be surprising
if the enterprising manage-
ment doesn’t come to light with
several additional adjuncts to
the original core of the business
before long.
C. and G.’s Flying Start
T>Y acquiring the £250,000
capital of Terms and
Credits, Ltd. (previously
wholly owned by W. R. Car-
penter and Co., Ltd.), for
1,600,000 ss. shares paid to
2s. 6d., plus £150,000 in cash,
Commercial and General
Acceptance Co., Ltd. (hire-
purchase offshoot of the Com-
mercial Banking Co. of
Sydney), is off to a flying-start
with a ready-made nucleus for
its future activities.
In buying-back 640,000
C.G.A. shares from W.R.C. at
their paid-up value of 2s. 6d.
the C.B.S. will maintain its
present 40 p.c. interest in
C.G.A.
Paid capital of C.G.A. will
become £825,000 in 6,600,000
ss. shares paid to 2s. 6d. The
shares 'are not yet' listed, but
the issue was heavily oversub-
scribed.
The deal with W. R. Car-
penter’s over Terms and
Credits should put an end to
speculation about which estab-
lished h.-p. co. the C.B.S. was
likely to take over.
Greater Union Profits
After providing £lOO,OOO
(down £100,000) for “tele-
vision contingencies” and un-
disclosed tax, Greater Union
Theatres, Ltd., showed a net
profit for the year to December
31 last £3559 higher at
£228,620. Ordinary distribu-
tion was increased by £36,000
to £161,000, half going to the
Rank organisation (England),
the other half to Amalgamated
Holdings, which was formed
This year to take-over the
shareholdings in G.U.T. and
other interests of West’s,
Spencer’s, Amalgamated and
Greater J. D. Williams.
The pref. div. of £25,000 goes
entirely to Amalgamated.
Amalgamated Holdings will
pay 10 p.c. to its shareholders,
as against the 8| p.c. suggested
at the time of the merger. The
10 p.c. will call for £112,283
on capital of £1,128,336.
Although obviously hit by
TV competition, the Greater
Union group has not yet
thought fit to draw on its
reserve for TV contingencies,
but actually added £lOO.OOO to
it, bringing it up to £650,000.


“Does that mean I'll be Mrs. Mangel-Wurzel for the rest of my life?”


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“Nude with Violin”
Although Noel Coward’s
play, at Melbourne Comedy, is
perhaps a trifle overlong for
its content, it resolves at the
final curtain. into a hilarious
exposure of modern art, art
salesmen, connoisseurs, teachers
of art-appreciation, critics and
other pundits. Mr. Coward
himself may not have a very
clear idea of what art is, but he
is not easily taken-in by. the
sudden apparition all over the
world of tens of thousands of
young geniuses, and his play
is a more-or-less Aristophanic
attempt to heap mullock on
the movement.
Modern art is epitomised in
Sorodin, a world-famous artist
whose deathless masterpieces
are in the Louvre, the Tate,
the Museum of Modern Art
in New York,' and every other
institution which values its
ability to recognise art
when it sees it. Sorodin has
just died, and the whole world
is reeling with the shock of this
loss to art when the curtain
rises.
His ex-wife and his family,
whom he hadn’t seen for 20
years, return from the funeral
with Mr. Jacob Friedland
(Campbell Copeland), the con-
noisseur and dealer who has
put him on the map and made
a fortune thereby, and they
meet his valet Sebastien
(Robert HelpmannX who
apprises them of the fact that
he left no will, only a private
letter which the valet has in
h;is pocket and which he is
only too pleased to read aloud.
It turns out that Sorodin
loved life but hated painting,
and never painted a single
picture in his life except one of
a sheepdog when he was aged
11. He loathed cant, pretence
and official pomposity and
absoluteness, all symbolised to
perfection by his sponsor, Mr.
Friedland, so he decided to
show them up by getting his
various mistresses, and any-
body else who happened along
and who had never put a
brush to canvas, to paint his
pictures.
The pictures of his Blue
period were painted by a demi-
mondaine, of his Yellow period
by an alleged Russian prin-
cess, of his Jamaican period by
an eleventh-hour emersionist
in Jamaica, and of his final
period by a 10-year-old child.
These all turn-up and have
successively to be bribed to
maintain silence about the
imposture. Finally “Nude
with Violin,” the picture for
which the whole world is wait-
ing, is unveiled and is claimed
by the illegitimate son- of
Sorodin’s valet.
Those who take modern art
seriously won’t find “Nude with
Violin” particularly amusing;
those who don’t take it very
seriously won’t take Coward
seriously either, but will find
him highly amusing and truth-
ful enough, especially in the
character of Jacob Friedland,
played with anguished bombast
by Campbell Copeland.
Robert Helpmann, as the
Great Fraud’s valet was
perfect Coward. Every trick
of gesture and expression,
his astonishing virtuosity
in language—he speaks 14 —
his gentleman’s gentleman’s
elegance and his shrewd obser-
vation from the anse of the
gutter were all in keeping.
Bettina Welch exaggerated
the of the Russian
princess to the pqint of in-
coherence, and most of the
rest of the cast emphasised
lines which had been empha-
sised enough by Coward.
Harold Blair, the aboriginal
singer, provided evidence of
histrionic talent in the part of
the emersionist from Jamaica.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Dear -Delinquent”
Sydney Royal’s new light
comedy, “Dear Delinquent,”
bubbles or gently simmers
along, and kept the first-night
audience amused. But
But.
It depends practically entirely
on the Irish charm of the dear
delinquent, who is Penelope
Shawn, who is a professional
burglar and has to persuade
the young man she burgles not
to send her to jail but to marry
her. And Rona Newton-John,
who plays Penelope, has plenty
of charm in the round-eyed
ingenue style, but not a touch
of Irish in voice, manner or
character.
Therefore, strictly speaking,
you haven’t got a play at all.
Or, at best, the shadow or the
ghost of a play ; a pale Aus-
tralian imitation of a thing
that, thin though it is, would
sparkle in England.
To a lesser extent it depends
on all the other characters
being Irish or English types,
with polish; and, in general,
there was the same falling-
short: though Frank Taylor’s
manservant and John Huson’s
detective would pass, and John
Gray tried heroically to be
Penelope’s Irish father and
pretty well got away with it.
Guy Doleman, as the burgled
young man, is really too force-
ful and direct an actor to play
the sort of English fop he was
meant to be: it would be a
part for Ralph Lynn.
‘ However
However. It is a dear de-
linquent after all.
Amadeus Quartet
And what a quartet!—Nor-
bert Brainin (violin), Sieg-
mund ' Nissel (second-violin),
Peter Schidlof (viola) and
Martin Lovett (’cello), uniting
under the Musica Viva banner
at Sydney Town Hall.
The first thing one noticed,
in the Beethoven F Major
Quartet, Op. 18, No. 1, was
their sense of rhythm: some->
thing remarked, then dis-
carded, because their pre-
occupation hardly lay with
such plebeian aspects. In the
second-movement, an adagio,
there was so much pastel in
the shading that all thoughts
of rhythm as a dominant force
melted. And in the scherzo
following, with what relish did
“Carmen”
The Elizabethan Trust
Opera Company has again
chosen Brisbane to commence
its season; four operas are
planned for the northern city.
Far more work has obviously
gone into this year’s operas, for
which credit is due to con-
ductor Karl Rankl. Last year’s
orchestral playing was in-
different, but with the first
exciting notes- of “Carmen” a
new order of discipline for 1958
was proclaimed. To retain its
title of “the 'perfect opera”
Carmen must never be allowed,
to . drag, particularly in the
choral and orchestral sections.
Point taken by Rankl. Com-
pared with lasf year’s presen-
tations chorus-work has been
polished, with the result that,
musically, this “Carmen”
emerged as the best opera yet
presented in Brisbane.
I heard Raymond Nilsson in
London a few years ago and
thought him a lightish tenor.
Not so his Don Jose, one of the
most difficult tenor roles in
all opera.. So many tenor parts
remain static Rodolpho, in
“Boheme,” for example, once
he has made his impression as
a poet, is able to coast along
on that success. But Otello and
Don Jose are two notable
examples that requird an ability
to act their descent from
happiness—a mind, as well as a
voice is asked for. The com-
bination of lyric and dramatic
tenor is rare enough, but
Nilsson proved to be just that.
His “Flower Song” was created
of notes as soft as petals, and
as perfectly shaped. Yet, in the
final act, his was a big voice,
never corrupting the musical
quality of the role by an easy
descent into declamation.
Constance Shacklock’s
Carmen was of the body and
mind as well the proud,
wanton gipsy of the novel, who
so rarely gets through the
vagaries of opera production.
Better in the last act than any-
where else in the opera, and,
unlike so many Carmens, she
made the most of her brief,
exquisite duet with Escamillo,
that sincere moment of affec-
tion before the lashing fury of
her final encounter with the
rejected Don Jose. Shacklock,
Nilsson, and always Rankl,
attained in the closing duet a
quality rarely equalled even in
the legendary recordings.
Robert Simmons’s Escamillo
was a disappointment; there
was not enough vocal dash to
it. Such a toreador could
never have won the sensual
Carmen away from so pre-
sentable a Jose, and Joy
Mammen’s Micaela, to the eye
so acceptable, was unable to
maintain a strict correlation
between the purity of her role
and her vocal art.
The combined operatic art of
Nilsson, Shacklock and Rankl,
intense and truly convincing,
was wretchedly hampered by
a Hollywoodish approach to the
production. So gaudy and
vulgar were the clashes of
color,, so overdone the masses
of sealing-wax pink, that at
times the stage resembled a
plastic carton of jelly-beans.
Spain may be colorful, but this
garish, gaudily lit display
bred a '‘Wizard of Oz” dis-
belief in the opera as a whole,
for where everything is Colored,
nothing is. Costumes struck the
same fancy-dress note.
VAL VALLIS.


Best
Mineral
Supplement
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65 % tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
OS
SI l*"- 1
fVOO*
eot»*
*1
ou'm<k
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65V. TRLCALCIC PHOSPHAIf
Any particulars gladly supplied —
Wrilc IO DAVIS GELATINE; G.P.O. Bo* IM3,
SYDNEY • G.P.O. Box 4058, MELBOURNE •
G.P.O. Box 712 F, ADELAIDE • G.P.O. Box 758 K.
BRISBANE • B*x H. 588, C.P.0., PLRTH
fROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
leader Brainin dart through
the subject, with that distinc-
tive trill like the flick of a
goldfish’s tail! In the difficult
syncopated passage towards
the- end of the concluding
allegro there was, perhaps, a
momentary sign of absorption
with time-values rather than
with more celestial considera-
tions.
Quartet No. 2 in F Sharp
Major, by contemporary
British composer Michael
Tippett, came next. Tippett
ranks with Rawsthorne, Pit-
field, Rubbra. Unlike Pitfield,
who is a neo-classicist, Tippett
could loosely be termed
“modern.” There's some Very
interesting writing in this
quartet—like the first move-
ment, an allegro graz'ioso, with
its soaring high notes for
’cello; not unlike a choral
work where the tenor voice
moves around the high reaches
of its gamut. But some signs
showed Tippett to be a
student: in this movement,
when he tires of sending the
instruments scurrying off in
opposite directions, he merges
them in brief unison passages
—an old trick. This section
ends with a most lovely modu-
lation to an unrelated major
key. -
And in the second move-
ment ( andante ) Tippett intro-
duces a fugue on a semi-tonal
subject, first given by the
second-violin, but the answer
is musically rather crude.
Your second-voice should
never sound as if it’s waiting
till the others have entered
before saying anything signi-
ficant. Following a bustling
presto was an allegro
appassionato, all fire and
drama, featuring a long-
anticipated return to the tonic-
major.
After interval the Brahms
Quartet in A Minor, Op. 51,
No. 2 was played with such
absolute poetry and musician-
ship that one almost-forgot
the old tag attached to
Brahms: “He just loves the
common chord.” What is
there to say further? Can you
explain perfection? Nof even
the two enterprising gentlemen
who followed the Beethoven
with scores (one was Bible-
size) could do that, even if
their eyes were glued on every
Brahmsian quaver. 1
A.W.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Marching Song”
John Whiting’s play, put on
by Sydney’s Sydenham Pocket
Playhouse, is about a military
commander who, after seven
years’ jail for cowardice, is
brought to a European
capital and given the option
of standing trial or killing him-
self —they obligingly provide
the poison.
It’s practically foregone that
General Forster will be proved
guilty, and over and above
that the mayor regards him
as a political pawn, a concrete
being to excite the mob’s
conscience. So fjorster is put
into the home of a former
mistress, Catherine de Troyes,
who runs a kind of boarding-
house peopled with men-who-
might-have-been. Here he
must wait for 36 hours and
decide whether to face trial or
death.
One of the boarding-house
people is Harry Lancaster, an
optmistic (and ageing) Yank
film-maker; another is a
priest; the third a doctor;
and Lancaster has rescued
from a bar a young lady of
the city who he rather patheti-
cally thinks is good film-
material. Add the heartsore
Catherine de Troyes and the
resigned General and you have
a rare bunch.
At least, Forster is resigned
until he notices Dido Morgen,
Lancaster’s find; then he
begins to think life might be
worth, living. This doesn’t
please the mayor ; neither does
it particularly please the girl,
who merely wants to get away
from the pawing, half-shot
Lancaster and return to her
room overlooking the river.
Whiting makes the most of
his situation, exploiting the
General’s indecision while
drawing concentric knots
around the subservient figures.
But in the last act, when
Forster climactically takes
poison, Whiting seems to over-
reach himself—according to
the rules, you should round
things off smartly after your
climax, If you don’t, as here,
one is left looking for a second
climax.
John Cooper, as the
General, was suitably com-
manding and allowed just the
right sparkle to color his eyes
when recounting past battles.
Barbara Eather, playing Dido
Morgen, slipped from a good
beginning to undue preoccupa-
tion with the numerous
“damn s,” “hells” and
“bloodies” she is required to
utter. Douglas Bladon made
a powerful and convincing
person of the mayor, if once
or twice the .prompter was
overheard, and Gerry
Duggan’s Harry Lancaster
was admirable —all controlled
bitterness. '
The priest and the doctor
(Barry Zietsch and Peter
Potok respectively) were sel-
dom seen, but filled their parts
well, as did Robert Findlay,
who was responsible for the
production.
A.W.
* £
Intimate Revue
Latest centre of intimate
revue, that most satirical form
of drama, is the “Scoop” group
of the Queensland University,
based in its “hut” theatre under
the shadow of the august sand-
stone pile it pilloried with
success.
One of the roles of a uni-
versity is to comment upon
the political, cultural and com-
merejal life of the community,
and a good-humored intimate
revue is a most effective way
of keeping the public affection
whilst being didactic.
TT . , T . , • . , . , „
Highlights in this, Scoop s
first endeavor, were “Big Julie
Csesar, on the fall of a corrupt
Government; an American
plan to establish (complete
with Arunta chorines) a tourist-
centre in the Dead Heart
(“Don’t Hock the Rock”); and
Lorna Bollman’s “actress com-
ing home to Australia to have
her baby this latter being
given a performance of profes-
sional calibre.
Prune a few “straight” num-
bers, curb one or two exuber-
ant artists, however talented,
and this pattern of revue, new
to Queensland, may' well
come one of the happiest links
between St. Lucia’s sandstone
tower and its public.
Artburs
For Fifteen Guineas
There are larger, showier
pictures than Jack Carington
Smith’s “Morning Walk” at
Sydney Macquarie Galleries’
exhibition of fifteen-guinea
paihtings ; but that, if it hadn’t
sold already, would be this
commentator’s choice for the
money.
Grey water on a grey day in
a grey mood faintly relieved by
what the pale sun has to say
on a pale-yellow wooden seat,
it states its theme with beauti-
ful limpidity and there is more
subtle and much more arduous
craftsmanship in its restraint
than in the exuberance of the
abstracts that surround it.
Some other paintings of
quality are Arthur Murch’s
fresh study of a boy and a
red-setter on the beach, Adrian
Feint’s delicate “Fuchsias and
Moonlight,” George Law-
rence’s vigorous “Tabourie
Beach” and Shiela McDonald’s
“Reflections.”
❖ <+
Mosaics
George C. Benson left Vic-
toria for W.A. in the early
’thirtiesTo start on his decora-
tion of the ceiling of the
Winthrop Hall at the
Westralian University. . That
work, with its aboriginal motifs,
is the most distinguished part
of a harmonious whole and no
visitor to the University is
allowed to miss it.
In latter years, Benson has
done a number of large-scale


QUEENSLAND
INSURANCE
Co. Lid.
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE &
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies
throughout the World.
Between
Ourselves
ft
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You ran educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world-ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week.
frescoes, notably that at tho
Kwinana oil-refinecy, and he
has just finished the longest,
most difficult and most weari-
some job of his career —the four
mosaic panels for the entrance
to the new Farmers’ Union
building in Adelaide Terrace,
Perth.
They depict a drover with
sheep, a Hereford bull, a jump-
ing event at the Royal Show
(the R.A.S. is housed in the
building), and d tribute to the
late F. C. Petersen, who
bequeathed a considerable
fortune to the Farmers’ Union
—sufficient for it to proceed
with the new building.
Benson did all the work him-
self, from the design to the
completed panel. He departed
from the traditional method of
fixing the tessaras in small
sections, and glued it to the
full-sized sketch cut into
sections which were then
reassembled on .a large cement
table. A box frame of angle-
iron was then placed around
it and a cement mixture,
followed by concrete, poured
over it to the required level.
After a week the panel was
moved from the table, the paper
adhering to the mosaic washed
off, and the unit was more-or-
less ready to be installed.
The mosaics, unveiled by
Mrs. Petersen, the widow of
the man who had made it all
possible, are remarkable, for
their quality and originality of
design, and for their harmony
in relation to the building
which they adorn.
BOLIVAR.
Films
“The Long Hot Summer”
The characters in this
psychological drama set in the
U.S. Deep South have given
service to film-script writers
for years. There is the tyran-
nical tycoon of a father
(Orson Welles), contemptuous
of his easygoing son
(Anthony Franciosa) and
dominating his life and that
of the son’s equally easy-
going, lazy wife ; the spirited
daughter (Joanne Woodward),
not afraid to bandy hot words
with her peppery sire, who
secretly enjoys the verbal
jousts and never tires of wish-
ing that his son had his sister’s
intestinal fortitude; and the
inevitable strong - minded
young man who drifts into
their lives and makes no bones
“Your eyes are like deep Wells of — oil!"
about his contempt for the lot
of them, but especially for the
daughter and Pop, which of
course makes him ace-high
with b'oth —eventually.
There is some originality in
the hero’s manner of graduat-
ing to that status via the
delinquent road—his favorite
hobby up to the time he
crosses swords with the dollar-
fancier has been the firing of
the barns and paddocks of the
bucolic gentry he doesn’t
-happen to like, arson being a
congenital disease he inherited
from his father. The unlike-
lihood of this character’s swift
regeneration from being
match-happy is considerably
lessened by the skill with
which Paul Newman handles
the role. Franciosa is com-
petent, but Orson Welles hams
the father with a heavy hand,
and his exaggerated Southern
accent makes his speech
almost unintelligible.
All the subsidiary charac-
ters are neatly etched, and
Martin Ritt’s direction gives
the film good pace and a
glossy finish.
At Sydney Regent.
“Count Five and Die”
A well-knit spy-thriller on
the theme of fooling the Ger-
mans that the D-day invasion
would strike through Holland.
A German woman spy posing
as a Dutch patriot fools an
American captain serving as
liaison-officer with the Dutch,
but not the British Security
major who directs the under-
ground’s operations. In this
latter role Nigel Patrick gets
excellent effects from blend-
ing whimsical humor, shrewd
alertness and a disarmingly
serene manner. Annemarie
Duringer as ’ the spy is also
well cast, but Jeffrey Hunter
as the mushy Yank doesn’t
measure-up.
Seen at Sydney Plaza.
❖ ♦♦♦
“The Gift of Love”
Young wife (Lauren Bacall)
keeps secret from her brilliant-
physicist husband (Robert
Stack) that she is a heart-case.
To ensure there will be some-
one to look after him after her
death she adopts a little girl
from an orphanage, but the
new arrival and the husband
don’t click. The wife dies,
husband packs the kid back
to the orphanage, and then,
overcome by loneliness and his
own hard-heartedness, goes to
get her back, only to find the
girlie has decamped. Spirit of
dead foster-mother guides his
footsteps so that he rescues her
from the billowing waves just
in time. Spirit then happily
goes back to rest.
Hoyts’ circuit.
❖ ❖ *
“A Face in the Crowd”
Another powerful assault by
Elia Kazan on an unsavory
feature of modern American
life in this case the mass-
adulation accorded mediocre
entertainers and the resulting
over-inflation of their egos.
The film presents a harsh
portrait of a hobo who is ‘'dis-
covered” by a radio-reporter
during a jail visit. A loud-
voiced singer with the worst of
gangster manners, he “clicks”
on radio, then on TV, and soon
fie is running his own sessions
and begins to assert his
arrogant influence in the field
of politics.
Andy Fisher, as stage-actor
making his screen debut,
handles the character’s com-
plexities skilfully. Patricia
Neal does little more than
register ecstatic admiration of
her “find” until she is called
on to emote in the final stages,
but this she does convincingly.
On Hoyts’ circuit.
❖ ♦> ♦>
“The Helen Morgan Story”
Sentimental biography
about a pop-singer of the
’twenties who falls for a slick,
fast-talking, bootlegging gang-
ster. When her amours pile-
up on the rocks, she hits the
hooch and goes to the pack.
But is she in the gutter for
keeps? No, sirree! And who
else but the f.-t., b. g. heaves
the goilie back on to her size-
threes for more success on the
right side of the footlights,
what time he still plies the
mamba - juice while being
seized with True Luv?
Ann Blyth makes rather
heavy going of the central
role except as to the torch-
singing, which she does
uncommonly well. Paul New-
man, as both her bane and
blessing, rip-roars through the
character with crisp virility.
Seen at Sydney Mayfair.


The WILDCAT
COUMN
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Abandoning its traditional coyness in
financial matters, for the moment at-
least, the C.S.R. board unearthed an
extra £l3 million of reserves last term
without appearing to delve too energetic-
ally into the big pile of assets accumu-
lated by the co. over the past 103 years.
After £4,680,000 had been skimmed-off
to finance a one-for-three bonus-issue, the
net increase in reserves, other than those
for depreciation and plant-replacement,
was £9,418,247, of which’£B37,4sß came
from last term’s earnings and the remain-
der from the revaluation of fixed assets,
including the write-back of excess
charges against depreciation and plant-
replacement.
Land, buildings and plant in Fiji were
the main subject of revaluation, provid-
ing a surplus of over £10,000,000, but
“upward adjustments” were also made to
the book-values of Australian freeholds,
which, in effect, restored “the amounts
written-off or provided against them over
the last 20 years.” Despite these “adjust-
ments” Australian fixed assets are still in
the accounts at a figure well below their
present-day value, and, as the bulk of
the co.’s property is on the mainland,
there remains ample scope for further
revaluation.
In any events earnings must prove the
ultimate arbiter in determining asset-
values, and on this score last term’s move-
ments are particularly encouraging as
they involve a tacit admission that the
sizeable sums charged against past profits
for depreciation and plant-replacement
have, in fact, contained a significant
element of profit. Before arriving at the
parent co.’s earnings for the year to
March 31 last, £2,376,627 (up £692,065)
was provided for depreciation and
replacement of fixed assets, lifting the
total amount charged to this account
over the past five years to £8,211,983.
Unfortunately, C.S.R. has never got
around to publishing its annuql tax-pro-
vision or a consolidated statement of its
assets and earnings.
One of the largest industrial under-
takings in Australia, C.S.R. was formed
in 1855, to take over the Australian Sugar
Co., founded 13 years earlier by Edward
(later Sir Edward) Knox. For many
years the co. has refined and,- as Govern-
ment appointee, marketed all but a frac-
tion of the Australian sugar output.
C.S.R. is also the sole refiner of sugar
in New Zealand and owns all of Fiji’s
five sugar-mills, seven of Australia’s 34
mills (which handle around 20 p.c. of
all locally produced sugar), three general-
cargo vessels (operating between Aus-
tralia, N.Z. and Fiji), and distilleries. in
Melbourne and Sydney, where the co.
turns-out methylated spirit, rum and
numerous other products.
A large building-materials division
manufactures wall-board, asbestos-cement
products, floor- and ceiling-tiles, build-
ing-plaster, etc., while a fast-growing off-
shoot, the 60 p.c.-owned C.S.R. Chemicals
Pty., produces a wide range of industrial
and pharmaceutical chemicals and raw
materials for the plastics industry. Another
subsidiary, Australian Blue Asbestos,
Ltd., mines asbestos at Wittenoom (W.A.).
Shareholders have been asked for addi-
tional capital on only one occasion in the
last 50 years, 117,000 £2O ords. being
offered in 1950 (one-for-five) at £27. How-
ever, bonus-issues were a comparatively
common event early in the century, and,
although last term’s gift was the first of
its kind for 23 years, over £l4 million
has been handed back to shareholders,
either as scrip or cash, since 1900. Paid
capital, £18,720,000, is all in f.-p. £2O
ords., the parents’ accounts showing a
net tangible asset backing of £37 18s. 9d.,
or £56 6s. 3d. if depreciation and plant-
replacement reserve is included.
At 1,253,000 tons, Australian produc-
tion of raw sugar last season was only
32,000 tons short of the 1954 season’s
peak output, the seven C.S.R. mills turn-
ing-out a record 275,200 tons (up 42.000
tons). In Fiji, too, weather conditions
were favorable, the 196,100 tons of
produced in the colony (all by C.S.R.)
establishing a new record:
1955. 1956, 1957.
Tons. Tons. Tons.
Australia .. .. 231,000 233,200 275,200
Fiji.. .. ...163,100 134,500 196.100
Total .. .. 394,100 367,700 471,300
Higher world prices for sugar added
considerably to the value of the bigger
output (and caused suspension of export-
quotas), total exports of Australian sugar
bringing in £33 million, or over £5,000,000
more than in the previous year.
Sales of sugar and syrups from the
Australian refineries rose by 25,000 tons
to 510,000 tons, 103,800 tons (up 4100
tons) of refined products going out from
the Auckland refinery. A further rise in
the turnover of the two distilleries, an
11 p.c. increase in sales of building-
materials, a stronger demand for asbestos
(last term’s production was worth
£1,300,000), and a 17 p.c. jump in the
turnover of C.S.R. Chemicals added the
finishing-touches to a highly successful
year.
The parent co.’s income from all
sources averaged £103,188,000 p.a. in
the three years to 1957, last term's per-
formance lifting the three-yearly average
(as much as the co. is prepared to reveal)
to £111,672,000. After providing for
depreciation, plant-replacement and taxa-
tion, net profit advanced by £363,700 to
£2,335,058, representing a return of 12.4
p.c. on the bonus-enlarged capital. Profits
from trading and divs. from subsidiary
and outside investments (the latter valued
at £905,219 at March 31)' are lumped
together in the published p.-and-l. account
which is no more tjian a restatement of
the net-profit as claimed by the board:
Tear Replace-
Ended ment, etc.,
March, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£\£ £ £
9 p.c.
Share premiums, £273,000 2,768,393
__ From inner res., £3,498,5] 4 6,266,907
1953 .. 1,366,394 1,228,500 6,404,801 11,710,311
1954 .. 1,417,943 1,263,600 6,559,144 12,807,355
12 p.c.
1955 1,575,901 1,684,800 6,450,245 13,949,946
10 p.c.
1956 .. 1,679,636 1,404,000 6,725,881 15,209,992
Profit, sale vessel, pineapple cannery,
etc., £80.152 .. .. 6,806,033
1957 .. 1,971,358 1,404,000 7,373,391 16,380,751
Surplus on revaluation fixed assets, in-
cluding transfers from' depreciation
replacement reserve ( £5,305,361),
£ 13,260,759 .. .. 20,634,180 11,075,390
Reserves capitalised,
£4,680,000 .. .. 15,954,180
8 p.c.
1958 .. 2,335,05 S 1,497,000 16,791,638 13,452,017
Representing 10.6 p.c. on the pre-bonus
holdings, the 8 p.c. div. called for an
additional £93,£00, earnings covering
the bigger pay-out with £837,458 to
spare.
Portion of the net £9,418,247 gain in
general reserves and undistributed profits
was at the expense of the “reserve” for
depreciation and plant-replacement, and
it would appear that £5,305,361 was
drawn from this account during the year,
of which over half was used to write
down fixed assets, prior to revaluation,
and the balance sent straight to general
reserves.
Movements springing from the big
write-up and the subsequent bonus-issue
overshadow other balance-sheet varia-
tions, the £ 11,397,956 leap in the book-
value of total assets being accompanied
by an increase of only £228,443 in exter-
nal liabilities and provisions:
1956. 1957. 1958.
Paid capital . . £14,040,000 £14,040,000 £18,720,000
Reserves .. 6,725,881 7,373,391 16,791,638
Depreciation re-
serves . . 15,209,992 16,380,751 13,452,017
Creditors, etc. 15,316,452 14,715.474 15,618,721
Overdraft .. 1,483,971 725,794 -r-
Dcbentures . . 7,000,000 7,000,000 7,000,000
Employee de-
bentures 156,810 136,870 141,060
Final div. .. 702,000 702,000 748,800
£60,635,106 £61,074,280£72,472,236
Refineries, mills,
etc 30,971.163 32,720,174 42,824,990
Ships .. 729,931 1,134,508 1,304,550
Distilleries .. 1,174,208 1,249,385 1,630,797
Premises .. 382,281 392,576 423,818
Stocks ..’ 10,225,670 13,835,479 12,602,717
Book debts, etc. 12.506,347 7,101,987 7,280,853
Investments . . 4,593,958 4,612,194 4,806,883
Cash and de-
posits .. 51,548 27,917 1,597,628
£60,635,100£G1,074,280 £72,472,236
Current assets were in a slightly more
liquid form at balance-date, holdings of
cash rising by £1,569,711 over the year
and book-debts by £178,866, while stocks
slipped by £1,232,762.
Plant-extensions are being carried-out
at Wittenoom in the current term, in
order to meet a growing demand for
asbestos, and a “large programme of
capital-expenditure” is under way at vari-
ous mills and refineries. In addition,
C.S.R. Chemicals announced two projects
last year (relating to the production of a
toughened polystyrene and vinyl-acetate)
which will involve that co. in an outlay
of approximately £1,000,000. The bounty
(of lOd. a lb.) on cellulose-acetate flake,
as supplied by C.S.R. Chemicals to Cour-
taulds (Aust.), Ltd., for use in the manu-
facture of rayon, doesn’t, at present, apply


to sales made after June 30 next. The
Tariff Board reviewed the position
recently, but its findings have yet to be
announced.
Although the negotiated price for
sugar exported under the British Com-
monwealth Sugar Agreement has been
raised by £stg.l 13s. 4d. to £stg.43 16s. Bd.
a ton, world prices for sugar are well
below those ruling for most of last year.
With the reimposition of export-quotas
and the effects of dry weather on Fijian
cane-crops, the fortunate combination of
circumstances which enabled nearly all
divisions of the co. to show “record or
near-record sales” last term will be absent
in the current year, but it seems unlikely
that these factors will seriously reduce
the chances of an early lift in the div.-
rate.
On the basis of an 8 p.c. distribution,
the f.-p. £2O ords. would return £3 15s. 3d.
p.c. at £42 10s., while a 9 p.c. div.-
rate would increase, the yield to £4 4s. Bd.
p.c. Capitalisation of the sharemarket
premium gives an earnings-yield of
£5 17s. sd. p.c. on last term’s figures.
Kelvinator Australia, Ltd.
TX7ith a refrigerator in three out of
every four Australian homes, manu-
facturers of domestic refrigerators are
now competing, mainly, for a share
in the replacement-market—a market
unlikely to strengthen greatly as long as
the public shows a preference for TV-
receivers rather than new refrigerators.
However, after falling from a peak of
280,000 units in 1954-55 to 193,000 units
in 1956-57, Australian production of
refrigerators appears to be stabilising at
a level somewhere between the 180,000-
and 200,000-marks, output on this scale
being well below the installed plant-
capacity of the industry as a whole.
might be expected under these cir-
cumstances, earnings of the 25-year-old
South Australian ’frig.-manufacturer,
Kelvinator Australia, Ltd., have slipped
over the last couple of years. But the
co. hasn't had to strain anything to main-
tain a 15 p.c. div.-rate, and, last term,
demonstrated once again its ability to win
attractive profits in a highly-competitive
market.
While the manufacture of domestic
and commercial refrigerators is Kelvina-
tor’s main interest, the co. also turns out
electric petrol-bowsers, room air-con-
ditioning units and other electrical and
domestic appliances, as well as marketing
radio and TV-receivers under the Kel-
vinator brand.
The post-war boom in household-
appliances brought a rapid expansion of
the co.’s manufacturing-facilities, and,
although a large proportion of the profits
earned during this period was retained
in the business, shareholders put-up
£1,042,500 of new share-capital and
£146,250 of premiums between 1945 and
1956 to help finance the growth; The
most recent issue, one-for-two, at par,
late in 1955, raised ord. capital to
£1,012,500, and, with £20,000 in 6-71 p.c.
participating prefs., the same amount in
fixed 6 p.c. prefs. and £190,000 in 5 p.c.
prefs., Kelvinator employs a total share-
capital of £1,242,500.
During the year ended March 31 last
the Australian output of domestic refri-
gerators dropped by almost 10,000 units
to 187,734 units, and the “satisfactory
volume of sales” reported by the co. was,
undoubtedly, below that of the previous
term. Sales of petrol-pumps were also
down, partly as a result of buyers awaiting
the release of a new model early in the
current term, but higher figures were
recorded in the case of both air-condi-
tioners and commercial refrigerators.
As claimed by the board, net earnings
for the year were only £3603 below the
previous term’s showing (an overprovisiori
for tax in 1957 increasing the apparent
drop to £14,941), but the non-disclosure
of the tax-provision, for the first time in
several years, prevents an assessment of
the actual fall in taxable income. Judg-
ing from balance-sheet figures, the pro-
vision for depreciation was a little above
the previous term’s £147,870: — *
Parent and Subsidiaries.
r Dividends- ■,
r— Prefs. —\ Re-
Mar., Profit. Ist 2nd 3rd Ord. Total, serves.
£ p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. £ £
1953.. 147,G08 74 6 5 10 04,700 733,380
Tax overprovided, £33,353 . . . . 706,739
1954-235,039 74 0 5 15 113,450 888,328
Tax underprovided, £3372 .. .. 884,950
1955.. 097 74 6 5 15 113,450 1,009,003
Tax underprovided. £29,041 . . . . 980.502
1950-293,137 7f 6 5 15 138,762 1,134.937
Profit sale land, £13,021 .. .. 1,148,558
Tax underprovided, £3250 .. .. 1,145,302
1957- 71 0 5 15 104,075 1,222,462
Tax .overprovided, .. .. 1.233,800
Added revaluation reserve, £31,356.. 1,205,150
1958- 74 0 5 15 104,075 1,338,713
The £237,632 profit was sufficient to pay
the pref. divs. (£12,200) and show 22.2
p.c. on ord. capital, compared with 22.6
p.c. and 27.7 p.c. in the two preceding
terms, ord. shareholders receiving another
15 p.c. xiiv., the ninth at this rate in
the last 10 years. Substantial reserves,
£1,338,713 at balance-date, are partly
responsible for the healthy earning-rate.
Stocks (down £606,756 or 35 p.c.)
were severely pruned during the year, a
pleasing movement, in view of current
market trends, and, while heavy capital-
expenditure cut working-capital by
£370,319 to £1,244,445, the overall finan-
cial structure remained particularly sound
and well-balanced:
Paid capital—- 1956. 1957. 1958.
Pvef £230,000' £230,000 £230,000
Old 1,012,500 1.012,500 1.012,500
Reserv es . . . . 1,134,937 1,222,462 1,338,713
Mortgage . . .. 250,000 442,500 429,000
Creditors, etc.* . . 1,305,638 1,082,905 959,827
Filial div. .. 98,912 107,350 107,350
£4,031,987 £4,097,717 £4,077,390
Freeholds .. .. 504,158 579.313 637.2G5
Plant .. .. 401,790 713,385 1,128,503
Stocks .. .. 1,349,808 1,729,497 1,122,741
Debtors . . .. 43(5.855 260,894 399,899
Cash, etc 1,279,310 814,028 788,982
£4,031,987 £4,097,717 £4,077,390
* Includes tax provision.
Although the net increase in the book-
value of fixed assets was limited to
£473,070, approximately £BOO,OOO is
reported -to have been spent on buildings,
plant and tooling, the outlay beipg
financed from the co.’s own resources.
An explanation of the £31,356 added to
revaluation reserve would, possibly, throw
some light 6n this discrepancy. '
Keen competition can be expected
throughout the current term, and Kel-
vinator may need to look to its petrol-
pumps * and air-conditioners for any
worthwhile improvement in turnover. At
the same time, extension of television ser-
vices to Queensland and South Australia
should insure a strong demand for TV
equipment, and the co. is planning to
boost sales "of TV-receivers (at present
manufactured for Kelvinator by a leading
electronics concern).
The 15 p.c. div.-rate looks reasonably
safe, and on this basis the f.-p. ss. ords.
would return a satisfactory £7 Bs. 9d. p.c.
at last week’s price of 10s. Id. The prefs.
share equally with the ords. in any return
of capital, consolidated accounts showing
a net tangible asset backing of 41s. 6d.
for each £ of share-capital.
Australian Cash Orders, Ltd.
'The resurgence of earning-power last
term, modest though it was, indicates
the resilience of Buckinghams’ old
protege in the face of adverse trading
conditions. In evaluating the possibilities
of Australian Cash Orders’ f.-p. “B” stock,
which last sold at 21s. 6d., giving a yield
of 9.3 p.c. on the present 10 p.c. div.-
basis, it is worth remembering that in
the rock-bottom days of the depression
the co. was still turning-in an earning-
rate which would have permitted an 8
p.c. distribution on the then paid capital
of £206,900, a largish figure when trans-
lated into present-day values. As. a long-
term profit-earner it has performed in the
grand manner.
In 1920 Buckinghams of Sydney
handed over a fine cash-order connection
to certain of its employees, who in that
year formed the present public co. A.C.O.
was a tremendous success from the out-
set, and by 1928 £133,609 of the £198,446
of paid-capital had come from gift-scrip.
Besides its finance offices, located in
Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane, A.C.O.
operates and finances home-furnishing
offshoots in these cities and also at Parra-
matta, Newcastle and Wollongong in
N.S.W. Although the two aspects of the
business are closely integrated, by far the
greater proportion of earnings comes from
discounts, commissions and interest
earned, rather than from furniture trad-
ing. A.C.O. has borne-up well consider-
ing its vulnerability to the growth of
h.-p., the shouldering of their own finance
by many retailers, and the statutory
restriction of cash-order transactions,
which now account for less than half of
financing operations.
Consolidated accounts are given for
the subsidiaries only, whose balance-date
trails nearly 12 months behind that of
the parent, itself purely a financier. The
parent’s accounts show that last year it
received £284,241 (up £30,693) in interest,
discounts, etc., £37,410 (up £3416) and
£10,104 (unchanged) in rents, a total of
£331,755. ' Collections in recent years
have tended to be less easy, and operating
expenses were forced up by £23,733 to
£265,091, exclusive of the tax-provision
which amounted to £14,630 (up £3960)
for the year. Net earnings (parent only)
for the year thus amounted to £52,034


ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
provei over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRiDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnettln? Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
eU,. Makers of Classifiers,
Water filters. Steam Valves,
etc
INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant super-
vision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Est. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
16 Spring: Street. SYDNEY - - - BU 3446
108 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - MU 4081
(up £6416) and represented an
earning-rate of 12.3 p.c. on
capital. In previous years the
return had been 20.9 p.c. (1955),
17.9 p.c. (1956) and 10.8 p.c.
(1957):
Parent Only.
Re-
Mch., Prft. ( Dividends ~ serves.*
< £ £ £
Share-issue exps. w/off, £132 210,553
’52.. 73,441 17* p.c. = 60,055 223,939
’53.. 68,036 17* „ „ 64,754 227,221
Share premiums, £2OlO .. 229,231
*64.. 94,361 17* p.c. = 65,242 258,350
Share premiums. £42,436 . . 300,786
Share-issue exps. w/otf, £63 300,723
’55.. 87,117 17* p.c. = 70,397 317,443
Share premiums, £4063 .. 321,506
’56.. 75,471 15 p.c. = 62,617 334,360
’57.. 45,618 10 „ ~41,996 337.952
'58.. 52,034 10 p.c. = 41,483 348,533
* Subject to goodwill, £127,513,
March 31, 1958.
Trading is reported to be
improving, but balance-sheet
movements are obscured by
the difference in balance-dates.
Finances, however, look pretty
comfortable:
Parent Only.
1957. 1958.
Paid capital .. £423,913 £423,913
Reserves .. 337.983 348,533
Mortgages .. 87,500 85,000
7 p.c. notes .. 250,000 250,000
Overdraft .. 156.728 136,868
Sundry liabilities 124,426 138,009-
Due to subsids.. . 62,423 144,418
Provisions* .. 74,166 99,583
Final div. .. 21,008 20,754
£1,538.147 £1,647,078
Freeholds, etc... 176,985 178,742
Shares subsids... 335,135 337,184
Debtors, etc. . . 762,997 840,299
Due by subsids. 134,368 162,094
Cash .. .. 1,149 1,246
Goodwill .. 127,513 127,513
£1,538,147 £1,647,078
* Bad debts, depreciation, taxation, etc.
Subscribed capital comprises
three classes of 20s. scrip—
£lB,7oo of “A” stock issued to
the vendors of 1920 and
originally restricted as to trans-
fer, but now on the same basis
as the ordinary “B” stock,
except that, like the £40,223
of non-transferable employees’
shares, they are precluded from
sharing in assets until “B”
stock or shareholders have been
paid in full. Besides £359,990
of “B” stock, there are 100,000
“B” shares paid to Is., which
are currently fetching around
9d. on ’Change, the slight dis-
count being due to the uncer-
tainty attaching to future calls.
Each 20s. of “B” ordinaries is
backed by 355. 4d. of net
tangible assets.
R. H. Gordon and Co.
T\isplaying generic affinities
with the larger and some-
what younger Australian Cash
Orders is another rather unpre-
tentious little retailer-cwra-
financier which also has
written a noteworthy page in
the annals of the sharemarket.
Since it was formed in 1907
to take over the existing busi-
ness of R. Gordon and G.
Wise, Sydney home-furnisher
and a pioneer in the lucrative
cash-order field, R. H. Gordon,
has an enviable record of hand-
outs, which have taken the
form of £223,333 of capital
returned and £307,450 of
bonus-scrip. Today the capital
is only £241,500, while visible
reserves exceed this amount.
Now that the gamut of
largesse in this form seems to
have been played to its visible
limit, investors, existing and
prospective, will base their ex-
pectations on a continuance of
the liberal div. distribution
which has always been the
avowed policy of an astute
directorate.
If past history is any guide,
the f.-p. 15s. stock holds-out
better-than-average income
prospects at the present market
price of 15s. 9d. Yield is 9.5
p.c. on this basis from a fairly
comfortably covered 10 p.c.,
and the chances of improve-
ment are fair.
Once again the slackness in
home-building restricted trad-
ing to a moderate pitch, and
last term’s turnover fell off
slightly, while costs maintained
their steamroller pressure ; but
net earnings dropped by only
£921 to £33,414, a figure which
isn’t greatly below the average
of £35,884 for the last decade.
However, foundation share-
holders will cast a nostalgic
backward glance to the latter
’twenties, when something
approaching double this figure
was the rule rather than the
exception. The then rather
“non-U” terms-financing of
consumer-goods was in the
hands of a few specialist firms,
and Gordon’s cash-orders were
a much more widely acceptable
exchange-medium than they
are nowadays.
Representing a return of
13.8 p.c. on capital, which was
last increased by a cash-issue
of 63,000 ords. (one-for-five)
in 1955, the profit-figure was
computed after gross earnings
had been charged with £lB,OOO
(down £3000) for company-tax
and £662 for depreciation.
Previous earning-rates were
14.2 p.c. in 1956 and 13.1 p.c.,
19.6 p.c., 22.4 p.c. and 15.4
p.c. back to 1952:
Re-
Dec., Profit. , Dividends serves.
£ £ £
’47..33,430 18$ p.c. = 26,675 7 9no
To staff fund, £lOOO ..)
•48.. 37,300 20 p.c. = 20,100 f 91fi 9n9
To staff fund, £lOOO Z 10 ’
’49..34,672 20 p.c. = 29,100 1 99n 97i
To staff fund, £l5OO ..j
’50..43.226 20 p.c. = 29,100 ) 9 „ 9
To staff fund, £2OOO .. j
Asset-revaluation reserve,
£47,250 279,650
Bonus-share issue, £47.250 232,400
51. .36,918 16j p.c. = 32,313 1 9 oc aak
To staff fund, £2OOO .. f
’52..25,444 13* p.c. = 25,900 1
To staff fund, £l5OO ..(
’53..38.095 15 p.c. = 29,138 \ 9 , n nnfi
To staff fund, £2OOO .. j 24U ’ UUD
From tax-provision, £lO,OOO 250,006
From premises res., £2806 247,200
’54..43,608 15 p.c. =29,138 1 „, 0
To staff fund, £2500 ..}
From premises res., £5485 253,685
’55..81,830 13* p.c. = 27,475 1 040
To staff fund, £2OOO .. j
From maintenance reserve,
£3240' 252,800
’56..34,335 Ilf p.c. = 28,175 1 9 , fi 960
To staff fund, £2OOO
From maintenance reserve,
£3327 253,633
’57..33,414 10 p.c. = 24,150 1 ocn 5Q7
To staff fund. £2OOO ..j
There are two stores, one on
Brickfield Hill in Sydney’s
George Street, a smaller branch
at Newtown, a few miles away.
Gordon’s board has never dis-
played much inclination to-
ward empire-building, and the
balance-sheets tend to be repe-
titive :
1955. 1956. 1957.
£ £ £
Paid capital.. 241.500 241,500 241,500
Reserves .. 256,040 256,909 200,897
Sundry
creditors*.. 79,195 92,649 96,619
Overdraft .. 48,922 55,050 71,340
Staff fund . . 18,811 19,250 19,458
Final div. .. 14,525 16,100 12,075
658,993 681,509 701,789
Property and
plant, etc... 160,540 160,860 161,902
Stock . . 121,940 126,587 119,863
Hire agreements
and book
debts 373,979 391,488 417,450
Shares, deben-
tures, etc... 2,424 2,424 2,424
Cash, etc. .. 110 150 150
658,993 681,509 701,789
* Including tax provision.
At balance-date, December
31 last, there was a more-or-
less liquid surplus of £539,887
and £2 14s. of floating assets
for every £ currently owed,
while outsiders figured for
only 28 p.c. of total equities
Freeholds were revalued to the
extent of £47,250 back in 1951,
but the book-value probably
is still on the conservative
side, and a. convincing 31s. 2d.
of net tangibles covers each
stock-unit.
Kornblums Furnishings
1J eserve-building at a brisk
rate, Kornblums Furnish-
ings, Ltd., has ploughed-back
over 50 p.c. of its net earnings
in the seven years since the
public was invited to renew its
share-interest in the co.’s 69-
year-old business. Over the
same period the ord. div.-rate
has averaged a moderate 8.7
p.c., but a well-covered 10 p.c.
div. has gone out in each of
the last four terms and, on
recent performances, further
distributions on this scale
appear to be Well within the
co.’s earning-capacity.
Two of Kornblums’ three
principal subsidiaries distribute
imported and locally-manu-
factured carpets, linoleums and
soft furnishing-materials from
warehouses in Melbourne,
Sydney and Adelaide, the third
offshoot turning out furnishing-
fabrics at a weaving-mill in the
Melbourne suburb of Bruns-
wick. The merchandising cos.
hold franchises covering the
wholesale distribution of
Chattanooga tufted carpet (in
Vic., N.S.W. and S.A.) and
Grafton furnishing - fabrics
(throughout Australia).
The parent’s ord. capital has
remained unchanged at
£270,000 since formation in
1951, the issue, in 1954, of
40,000 £l6 p.c. prefs., partici-
pating with the ords. to 7 p.c.,
giving the co. a paid capital of
£310,000.
A relatively large amount of
outside money was brought
into the business last term,
£lOO,OOO coming from a mort-
gage-loan, arranged to assist in
financing the purchase of a
five-story freehold in Mel-
bourne, and another £lOO,OOO,
needed to strengthen working-
capital and provide funds for
the reconstruction of the new


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGUEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairrhan ; Alfred S. White-, A. G. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. B. J. LANE, Manager.
’Phone': BW 5361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. MX 2208.
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AL ST KALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
building, from the issue of
8 p.c. notes. During the 10-
year currency of the notes,
noteholders will enjoy the same
privileges as shareholders in
the event of a share-issue.
Development of the Austra-
lian carpet - manufacturing
industry and of Kornblums’
own manufacturing - interests
has widened the group’s sources
of supply, and, although cer-
tain imported lines were scarce
last term (to January 27), all
subsidiaries contributed to an
improvement in group-turn-
over, the manufacturing-
offshoot taking advantage of
the situation to boost both
sales and , earnings to a record
level. The bigger turnover
helped to reverse the down-
ward trend in earnings
apparent in the two preceding
years, and consolidated
accounts show net profit £2438
stronger at £60,597:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
f Dividends Re-
Jan., Profit. Pref. Ord. senes.*
6-7 p.c. 8j p.c.
£ £ £ £
1954.. 52.522 1,488 31.333
Profit sale assets, £738 .. 32.071
Added reserves, £B2l ... 32,892
10 p.c.
1955.. 66,202 2.800 27,000 69,294
1955.. 66.202 2.800 27,000 69,294
Profit sale assets, £172 .. 69,466
Added reserves, £849 .. 70,315
1956.. 65.652 2,800 27,000 106,167
To plant replacement re-
serve, etc., £BO2 .. .. 106,969
Profit sale assets, £578 .. 107,547
Tax overprovided, £1974.. 109,521
1957.. 58.159 2.800 27,000 137,880
Note-issue expenses, etc.,
£3436 134,444
Tax overprovided, £1265 135,709
To plant-replacement re-
serve, net, £760 . . . . 136,469
Freeholds revalued, £45,237 181,706
1958.. 60.597 2,800 27,000 212,503
* Subject to intangibles, £43,951 at
27/l/’5B.
Claimed after providing
£42,528' (up £531) for taxation
and £13,179 (up £984) for
depreciation and plant-replace-
ment, the higher profit covered
the pref div. and 21.4 p.c. on
ord. capital, compared with
20.5, 23.3, 23.5 and 18.9 p.c.
over the four years back to
1954.
The group’s freehold proper-
ties were revalued during the
term, presumably as a prelude
to the note-issue, reserves
benefiting to the extent of
£45,237.
Finances are comfortably
liquid, thanks to the £200,000
of borrowed. funds introduced
during the term:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1956. 1957. 1958.
Pref. .. £40,000 £40,000 £40.000
Ord. .. 270,000 270,000 270,000
Reserves .. 106,167 137,880 212,503
Outside
interests 16,569 16,064 16,085
Mortgage . 100,000
Notes .. • 100,000
Overdraft.. 12,819
Creditors.. 206,247 155,911 173,995
Tax provision 73,127 73,727 70,971
Final divs. 14,900 17,600 14,900
£739,829 £711,182 £998,454
Land, build-
ings .. 102,027 105,737 279,511
Plant, etc. 50,516 47,434 61,706
Shares .. 134 134 112
Stock, etc. 361,525 329,537 307,506
Debtors .. 181,442 180,866 236,190
Cash . . 234 3,523 9,478
Intangibles 43,951 43,951 43,951
£739,829 £711,182 £998,454
Book-debts (up £53,079, or
almost 29 p.c.) grew at a much
faster rate than turnover, the
£40,214 jump in stocks follow-
ing a fall of similar propor-
tions in the preceding year.
Revaluation accounted for
only £45,237 of the net
£188,046 added to fixed assets,
the balance relating mainly to
the purchase of the new Mel-
bourne property and extensions
to the manufacturing-sub-
sidiary’s plant and premises.-
Backed by net tangible assets
of 16s. 3d. per share (consoli-
dated accounts), the f.-p. 10s.
ords. sold recently at 12s. Id.,
to return buyers at that price
£8 ss. 6d. p.c. from a 10 p.c.
div.
Longreach and Cordillo
[From L. Owen]
another attempt to prove
the existence of com-
mercial petroleum on the
north-east flank of the Great
Artesian Basin ended when a
well sunk in search for oil on
the Balmoral structure, near
Longreach, Q., was abandoned,
early in June, at the shallow
depth of 1367 ft.
An interpretation of the
Balmoral structure, from the
correlation of aquifers in
surrounding water-bores, pic-
tures it as consisting of very
gentle doming with more than
200 ft. of closure over an area
of 150 square - miles; this
aquiffer evidence is also claimed
to indicate that the minus-
400ft. contour (sea-level datum)
encloses an area nine miles
long by four miles broad, but
is insufficient to indicate undu-
lations in the crestal part.
Hopes of striking oil were
centred on the Lower Creta-
ceous and Upper Jurassic beds.
The results of reconnaissance
gravity - surveys have been
translated as suggesting an
undulating granite-basement at
some 3000 ft. below the surface.
In a region where the geo-
logical history has been com-
plex and where the deposi-
tional conditions have shown
marked variation both laterally
and in time, the determination
of structure from the pinpoint
data of water-bores is, at
worst, completely misleading ;
at best, it is both difficult and
dangerous. That statement is
true, even more forcibly, with
reference to data from widely
separated gravity readings.
The failure of the Balmoral
well cannot, therefore, be
described as surprising. It has
had its use, however, in that
it has produced further proof
of the value of the principles
so often outlined in these
pages. Briefly, and with specific
reference to the Australian
mainland, the most important
of these are:
(а) Post-Triassic structures are
rarely persistent at depth and have
little effect on the segregation of
petroleum in commercial
quantities.
(б) Almost all the pre-Triassic,
and much of the Jurassic, petro-
leum, which may have been formed
and preserved was dissipated and
lost by late-Triassic or early -
Cretaceous times.
(c) The search for the surviving
oil demands a special technique
and a determination of the migra-
tory routes followed by the oil.
( d) While geophysics where
properly applied —is one of the
most useful aids which science has
given to the petroleum-geologist,
its interpreted results, as far as the
Australian mainland is concerned,
have been, on the whole, more
misleading than helpful, and
determinations of the buried base-
ment interface by gravity methods,
for instance, have been interpreted
as indicating much greater depths
than those actually encountered in
drilling.
As the Cordillo Downs area
(S.A. and Q. border) is now
under active examination, and
as both the Longreach and
Cordillo areas have much in
common, from the geological
point of view, it is to be hoped
that the lessons which can be
learnt from a critical study of
the Queensland operations will
be applied to the south-western
flank of the Great Artesian
Basin.
South Alligator Uranium
After a lengthy and un-
explained delay, negotia-
tions between the U.K. Atomic
Energy Authority and South
Alligator Uranium, N.L., are
reported to be nearing comple-
tion*. The co. is to be offered
a contract for the sale of a
“minimum tonnage” of
uranium-oxide to the U.K.
at a “satisfactory price,” the
minimum tonnage referred to
covering “the entire known
ore-reserves.”
Details of the co.’s ore-
reserves and its plans for the
production of uranium-oxide
will be disclosed as soon as
negotiations are finalised.
As the uranium sold to the
U.K. has to be in the form
of uranium-oxide cake, plans
for a quick start, by the pro-
duction of a pitchblende con-
centrate, have been “materially
changed.”
According to the board,
an important find has recently
been made in the No. 2 adit
drive, this opening re-entering
pitchblende ore, at 1093 ft. east
from the portal, with a length
of 44ft. over a width of 36in.
The director claims that this
find confirms the eastward con-
tinuation of the ore-zone to-
wards Sterrit’s Prospect, which
is 1000 ft. ahead of the adit
face.
A call of 6d. per share has
been made payable next week,
bringing the amount called on
the ss. contribs. up to 4s. 6d.
and paid capital to £461,000. As
yet, shareholders in uranium-
producing concerns "have had
very little information on which
to base an estimated valuation
of their investment, and, not
unnaturally, the sharemarket is
currently treating uranium
scrip with a certain amount of
caution. The South Alligator
contribs., subject to the 6d.
call, sold last week at Is. lOd.
Coffs Harbour Rutile
T>each-miner Coffs Harbour
Rutile, N.L., has suspended
production at its Coffs Harbour
(N.S.W.) treatment - plant.
Negotiations are in progress
for the “transfer to another
area to fulfil existing forward
contracts.”


nUHHSIRHD
W Australia’s
f fastest growing State
OFFERS YOU
this peak-interest, gilt-edged
INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITY!
Invest in Queensland where continued,
vigorous progress is assured! Invest in the
State’s biggest secondary industry electric
power and gain the benefits of high interest
and complete .security.
THE STATE
m-i!tf;mr¥rg
OF QUEENSLAND
LOAN
GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED
• £5.7.6% highest interest rate in Australia for a
Government guaranteed security.
• Short, medium or long term —5, 10 or 20 years.
• Interest paid half yearly FREE OF EXCHANGE.
O You may deposit 10% and pay balance in three
equal instalments by 30th Sept., 1958.
O Loan securities are negotiable and may be converted
to cash at any time.
LOAN CLOSES NOT LATER THAN 16th JULY, 1958.
APPLY NOW THROUGH:
The Commonwealth • Bank of New South
Trading Bank
• Australia and New
Zealand Bank Ltd.
Any Stockbroker, or
Electricity Commission
Gregory Terrace. Brisbane
Wales
The Commercial Bank
ing Co. of Sydney Ltd
direct to the 'State'
of Queensland,
Underwritten by
I. 8. Were & Son


A Winter's Tale
By HAL PORTER
When visiting Hobart,
Robbie always stayed
with Paul and
Virginia. v
Demoted from the demigod-
hood of rival and best man to
the subalternship of godfather
and best friend, it had been
made unthinkable for him,
though less expensive, to stay
at Beach House or Hadley’s or,
indeed, anywhere more expen-
sive.
“We’d be cut to the quick.
It’s your room, your home . . .”
Paul had begun with a photo-
graph grin.
Virginia had sliced in, “Don’t
declaim, Paul. Darling Robbie
knows it’s his room ... his
house.”
Paul’s grin had closed like
a rat-trap.
Robbie, thus tampered with,
returned twice yearly to the
dressing-gown and slippers
deputising spectrally in his
absences.
Each sojourn with these
animate symbols of auld lang
syne increasingly discomfited:
the 10-year-old wine of their
romance, now vinegar, became
a more and more fatally acid
acid which they less and less
discreetly splashed on dear old
Robbie, on Robbie's godchild,
their daughter.
Something of St. Pierre’s
Paul and Virginia was also
theirs difference in class.
Paul’s father was in trade,
Virginia’s father had been
Governor. Why Virginia,
cuckolding Paul with nothing
but upper-crust axioms, should
have become faithful to bitter-
ness too, a top-drawer harridan
crying, “Really, Paul, sick is
the word,” Robbie could not
fathom ; nor why Paul, hand-
some face diabolically buckled,
should rant like Othello, “111!
111, curse you! Mirror, serviette,
sol- der, gol-t and toilet, you
G.H. bitch!”
Stage One, Robbie had fled
these Private Lives, tiptoeing to
skulk under the wainut-tree,
and stare across the Derwent’s
sincerity of water at views like
inferior watercolors. Stage
Two, he remained incon-
spicuously scimitaring at his
Aberdeen loaf. Stage Three,
now, he blundered through
storm-scapes like Stravinsky
music, freely pokering fires,
twirling wireless knobs, even
hurnming “Melancholy Baby.”
This visit was in autumn,
blandness hung like an
enormous pomegranate-colored
lantern, an Indian autumn
seemingly eternal. Frost had
not set its bluish under-linen on
the a.m.-shadows; winter’s
chandelier had yet to ignite
icy flares, to chink and rattle;
Mount Wellington’s head was
not yet crowned in thorns of
ice or haloed, with hard-eyed
planets.
Robbie’s ' reappearance
prompted, as always, three
days’ grace of truce and
charm: Virginia was not a
blue-blood, nor Paul an actor,
for nothing. And though
something was a short dash, she
therein was cool as an oyster,
abandoned her analyses which
had too sharpening a back-
ground, and behaved like
a descended and Debrett
Minerva ; he acted the nothing-
too-much host, calm about
claret, offering profile and
smile circumspectly as filthy
postcards. His smiles were
younger than hers, though they
had been used thousands of
times more frequently.
Tn this amnesty, the child-
■*- daughter, fashionably
Susan, Was almost dandled;
her eyes, not becoming less
observant, nevertheless, at some
esoterically indicated moment,
became softer, and she begged
permissions with an air of
expecting denial or approval.
Indifference, prohibiting un-
awareness, were not during this
intermission her chilled portion
as when, wrangling \yith
bravura, Paul and Virginia
disregarded her. At such
times, flattened to the
wall at the rim of a cock-
eyed Bob of recriminations
ritualistic as obscene ianguage,
Susan’s gaze would narrow;
a key turned in her heart.
Seeming paler, astuter, Lucy
Gray or some ballad-child, she
watched, intent 'as though
inwardly honing something.
By the fourth day the
armistice-rift was imminent; a
note like the striking of an
elegant clock-jack entered
Virginia’s voice, announcing
quarters towards the hour for
returning Paul under the
hatches of class. O, my, my,
here we go, thought Robbie,
wondering whether to coddle
peace by jestering on Or to
skip into the autumnal out-
side, visit some placid saloon-
bar and reel back humming
“Melancholy Baby” to a scintil-
lating brawl.'
Need to decide between
Touchstone and truant was
erased by Frederick’s arrival.
Frederick, from Sydney, with
flattened and noseless face of
a bruiser, was stuttering with
excitement and the residue of
his terror of plane-travelling.
For three years he had slaved
hysterically and surgically on
the tape-recorded biography of
a famous actor who had chuted
to death in Hobart wearing
waistcoats like posters and
cargoed with brandy.
“‘S f-finished! L-let’s have
a p-p-premiere-party. ’S a


“KEY MEN”. . . No. 2
Conventional Staff Superannuation Plans may not always be adequate
in the case of “Key Men”! N
What is really needed is heavy emphasis on protection against death,
combined with modified retirement benefits.
A.M.P. “Key Man” plans are tailored to meet the needs of the
individual and his company.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
GENERAL MANAGER: M. C./BUTTFIELD
Every A.M.P. member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by funds exceeding
£375,000,000 which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to member*.


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1806 in Reign of
George HI.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
Ti.S.fV. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney
Clue] Olfice jor Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne
w-w-wonderful house for
p-parties.”
A wonderful house
even for hatred-growing.
A hundred-and-twenty
years of wise additions,
renewings and patchings
had come off perfectly,
and —despite currents of
tasteless happenings:
pain, frustration,
anguish, death—material
bad-taste remained with-
out, attempting to peer
through laurels, around
lichened boles, between
strata of arteries of
branches. Virginia’s
father had fancied it, bought it
for a Depression song, had
retired too soon underground
to enjoy retirement in it. She
had inherited.
The party wa-s ordered ; the
housekeeper, impassioned by
football, sicknesses and
Frederick, ‘ worked like a
toccata so that he could stoop
his terrified six-foot-four into
a Viscount and stutter Sydney-
wards three days later.
“M-m-my idea is,” he said,
“a f-few st-st-stirrup-cups. Then
the p-p-premiere-party. Only
takes n-ninety mins. After that,
hey b-b-bloody n-nonny, eh?
Is little Diane Wh-wh-whatsis
still about?”
She was, and slid, mullet-
slender, vinically pale as ? a
chromo-lithograph nun and
bold as a real one, through
shoaling others bold as nuns,
men bold as auctioneers.
Among displays of disobliging
autumn flowers, the wearers of
ocelot stoles, suede shoes,
hacking-coats, charcoal - grey
suits, , 50 earrings and 40
Sinatra-red socks, downed
stirrup-cups between two end-
of-room fires.
This sandwiching between
primitive flame because, at
twilight, the last leafy flesh had
slid from summer’s bones;
autumn’s lantern had sallowed
abruptly. Under the moon’s
revolver-mouth the Derwent
chromium-plated itself defen-
sively.
While ears were biddable,
Frederick spoke.
“Y'see,” he said, “I h-hunted
th-th-those who’d known M-
Martin . . . old actors, stage-
hands, g-gallery-girls, f-f-
-family, anyone. M-made ’em
natter . . . psychiatrist’s couch
st-stuff, y'know . . . recorded
everything. Th-then I pieced
together, sc-scrapped bits,
broke up r-r-reminiscences into
sections for contrast with other
s-sections for contrast with
other s-sections, m-made a
mosaic of m-m-memories, a
vocal biography. Three years
. . . some of the older ones are
d-dead as M-Martin. B-but I
captured them before D-D-eath
did. . .”
TTE switched on his
machine.
In the swaying silence a dead
man unfolded like a bizarre
plant. Frederick-the-gardener
had' been discerning, brilliant
and delicately callous. Now
the hoarder of chance
encounter praised vulgarly as
the feather-pated truthful;
now, in shampooed accents and
periods, they spoke to whom
form was art, and truth without
stays a Mau-Mau. Frederick’s
recorded voice stumbled,
amiable, fanatic, shepherding
throughout, skilfully fishing,
invoking.
The voice of the dead actor’s
60-year-old son mosquito-
wailed unflinchingly: “....O,
yes, I suppose us kids was
proud of him on opening nights.
But we didn’t get there often,
on’y a few times in the early
days w’en Mum could put her
foot down. didn’t even
want Mum to go. They’d yell
and quarrel quarrel real
bitterly.”
A passee actress, husky as
one, was introduced: “. . . the
naughty man. So witty; out-
rageous too —shall I say flam-
boyant? Need I not? Between
shows how we drank.... O,
dear!... .starting at the Latin
Cafe, just across from an
extravagantly plushy pied-d-
-terre naughty Marty had m
Exhibition Street....”
Voice after voice fitted the
jigsaw of larky charm, amours
concealed in words but not
intonation, qights-out like
rubies' lost decades ago, spend-
thrift flourishings.
“.... Ai remembah this
fascinatin’ room, in Maeleay
Street, plastered with
exhilaratin’ Lindsay etchin’s,
the floor swimmin’ with
a1e....”
“... .that year he’d an attic
in Kent Town, near Adelaide.
Whew, what an attic! And the
women....!”
“..-..g00d toimes or bad
’e’d always give we stagehands
a bottle of port ’n’ a pound-
note ”
Again the son’s voice, the
mosquito-hum: “Very bitterly
they’d quarrel. Mum and us
four nippers lived in the
cheapest suburbs. Not him, in
the city entertaining flash
friends. Mum used to earn a
bit typing play-scripts; she’d
do lovely Christmas-cards too.
Bat we was pretty broke, and
w’en he did deign to come
home with his champagne-
headaches Mum gave him
w’at-oh. He’d shriek and carry-
on like-on the stage. And I’d
stare at him, him with velvet
collars on his overcoats....”
‘He pleyed,” said a critic,
“a megnificent Lear. Frenkly,
I didn’t think it his cup of tea.
I vividly recall the moment
where his vile daughters hev
turned him out:
1 hev full came for weeping;
but this heart
shell break into a hundred
thousand flaws
or ere I’ll weep . . .
he could not, I aver, hev been
so moving if he’d not himself
suffered a similar experi-
ence .... ”
Other voices: fool’s praise,
pasteurised praise, praise
prickled with jealousy, the
Rabelaisian incident, the
eccentric benevolence.
Then his family’s mosquito-
spokesman: “Poor, old Mum,
always begging him for money
to buy us new boots. Us
kiddies’d be sitting at the tea-
table listening and watching.
Could he swear! Oh, a filthy
tongue, toff’s accent and all.
Sometimes the three fittlies’d
cry. . Not me, the eldest. I'd
just stare at him, stare at his
patent-leather shoes or stare
him right in the eye....”
Horribly, a dandelion-clock
laugh floated forth.
HThe 90 minutes unwound in
-*• faltering voices, voices
beaded with tears, voices
accustomed to lasso the half-
deaf in the back-row of the
gods. Again the voice, pitiless
as-though a snake spoke, the
mosquito-drone :
‘‘He didn't come to Mum’s
funeral in Adelaide. Oh, no,
he was playing at the Bijou in
Melbourne —‘The Passing of
the Third Floor Back’ a
goody making other people
happy. Him! So I didn’t go
to his funeral. No. Becos I
hated him. That’s a dreadful
('Continued on page 57)


London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
After three years of com-
parative placidity, the
industrial front has succumbed
to an outbreak of stupid and
damaging strikes. - The fact
that these were all concentrated
in the London area is not with-
out significance. There are
always isolated trouble-spots,
especially among the unskilled
workers, whose general sense
of responsibility is never very
high. But, for one good reason
or another, these simmering
embers have died-out before
taking fire.
The irony of the present
situation is that the Transport
and General Workers’ boss,
Frank Cousins, whose intrans-
igence, parochial implacability
and false pride have been
causing so much trouble, was
largely responsible for pacify-
ing these local grievances. But
Mr. Cousins didn’t then have a
bus strike on his hands and
his prestige in jeopardy.
As this pig-headed and un-
necessary strike dragged on its
instigator had less and less
time to devote to his wider
responsibilities. He had to
save his face before the bus-
men, keeping the confidence of
those in London while trying
to gain a concession for those
in the country ; he had to parry
with his colleagues on the
T.U.C. who genuinely and
fearfully sought to avoid the
head-on clash with the Govern-
ment into which his obduracy
seemed to be leading him ;
and he was fully preoccupied in
searching for further props to
shore-up the crumbling struc-
ture of old-fashioned class-war
militancy.
Otherwise, the dock strike
might not have spread. The
reason for it was characteristi-
cally silly—ostensibly out of
sympathy for the Smithfield
lorry-drivers but really a
manifestation of pique because
a wage-claim had recently
been refused. At any rate, it
was an invitation to the Com-
munists (who latterly have
kept astonishingly quiet) to get
busy, with the result that the
dock strike caused more
distress in a week than the bus
strike did in five.
All three parties—the Smith-
field lorry-drivers, the dockers
and the busmen—belong to
Mr. Cousins’s union, which,
with H-million members,
wields the biggest block of
votes in the T.U.C. and which
also contains the largest pro-
portion of unskilled and partly-
skilled workers. These men
have fared well (much better,
in fact, than the skilled workers)
during full employment. Con-
ditions are now harder for
them. Smithfield is so hag-
ridden with restrictive prac-
tices and inflated labor That
traders have found ways and
means of by-passing it; there is
redundancy at the docks
because of slacker business;
and the Transport Commission
must pay increased wages only
out of receipts (which are fall-
ing) or out of economies.
High Cost of Idleness
Strike funds, too, are not in-
exhaustible, as Mr. Cousins
found-out with some discom-
fort. Having deployed (an
action that his predecessors,
Ernest Bevin and Arthur
Deakin, were careful not to do)
the whole resources of his union
behind 50,000 busmen, he had
to raise the basic weekly strike-
pay of £2 by 50 per cent., cost-
ing his union some £250,000
a week. And he met with scant
(financial) sympathy from
other unions.
Britain’s only Communist-
controlled union, that of the
Electrical Trades, has come
near to bankruptcy. It keeps
solvent only because it is a
closed shop and able by virtue
of the tight control to bull-
doze its members (as, for
instance, last year, when con-
tributions were substantially in-
creased at a special-rules con-
ference). Even so, it had to
close - down the training-
college at Esher and the con-
valescent home at Rustington.
More than 85 p.c. of the
E.T.U.’s total strike-pay has
Ween paid-out in the 10 years
since the Communists gained
control. The actual figure is
£620,000, of which the record
amount of £197,000 was paid-
out in 1957.
Twenty Years After
For an actor as distinguished
as Charles Laughton to return
to the London stage after an
absence of 22 years is an event
of some moment, particularly
to older playgoers. This one
has seen many star actors come
and go, but none with quite the
same impact and dynamism as
Laughton brought to us in the
early ’thirties. Here was a
young man who had no
physical graces, who came
comparatively late to the stage,
and who, within three years of
his first “bit” part, was a
mature and versatile actor with
his name in electric lights. And
this he achieved without the
hard, formative experience of
weekly rep., provincial tours or
the classical teaching-theatre.
No player since Mrs. Pat
Campbell had crashed so
quickly to the top—and she, un-
like Laughton, had sex-appeal.
“The Party” (New Theatre)
is a first play by a young
married woman about an
adolescent girl whose father
is mysteriously “away.” She
contrives, by every possible
manoeuvre, to have her
seventeenth - birthday party
before he returns so that she
can show-off to her friends
without embarrassment the boy
who is the passive but not un-
responsive object of her calf-
love. But father, of course,
returns prematurely. A dipso-
maniac and schizophrenic, his
return is from a mental home.
The girl, crestfallen and bitter,
cancels the party, and the play
resolves into a conflict between
father and daughter with an
unconvincing happy ending
involving a dressing-up scene
that recalls Cathy in “\Vuther-
ing Heights.”
Indeed the play, with all
respect to its author’s marital
condition and individual talent,
is rather spinsterish in its un-
reality and imaginative concept.
The young girl, with her wish-
fulfilment and emotional im-
maturity, rings true enough,
but her associates (mother,
father, beau, avuncular lodger
and comic neighbor) have little
more substance than dream-
figures.
Laughton gives to the father
a London accent, a facade of
self-assurance and a certain
tender sympathy. His presence
quickens the heartbeat, and he
charges every line with mean-
ing. That, in short, is all that
need be said. His dynamism is
so uncanny that the merit of
the play is of little consequence.
Unfortunately, he has also
chosen to produce. The result
is adequate but undistinguished
except for one deeply effective
sequence where the father
buttonholes the beau. And, hy
allowing his wife, Elsa Lan-
chester, to put over a Cockney
music-hall act, he also throws
the play off balance. But tie
neither steals the scene nor
overshadows the others. He
may, indeed, have inspired
them, for all four are superb:
Joyce Redman as the wife,
John Welsh as the lodger, and
two 22-year-old newcomers,
Ann Lynn and (a name to
watch) Albert Finney.
"I spent all night trying to get the balance out , chief."


Tasmanian Lottery Case
In Hobart Court of Petty Sessions last
week former Tasmanian Treasurer
R. J. D. Turnbull appeared to answer
a summons on two charges of bribery
arising out of conversations which alleg-
edly took place between him and George
Fitzpatrick at Wrest Point Hotel on
November 12 last year.
Fitzpatrick, a Sydney businessman who
is managing-director and a principal
shareholder in two lottery share-selling
companies in Hobart, told the court that
he first saw Turnbull at 1.30 p.m. on
November 12, at the Treasury. He was
accompanied by his solicitor, H. S. Whit-
ham; a public accountant, D. S. Rolla-
son ; Drysdale’s solicitor, V. G. Mills;
and bankers’ representatives.
He was told the Treasurer wished first
to see him alone. Turnbull upbraided him
for discourtesy in having negotiated with
the Premier instead of himself, and told
him that Cabinet had decided that morn-
ing that no lottery-licence would be
issued to an individual. At Fitzpatrick’s
request his associates were then admitted,
-and Turnbull said that under existing
regulations he was empowered to issue a
licence to a company, “provided it was a
continuing one and revocable at will.”
The Treasurer said that by issuing such
a licence he might be “booted out of my
job” or even lose his seat. Fitzpatrick
told the court that Turnbull had then
added that in his opinion the Govern-
ment was likely to fall in May through
refusal of Supply.
At 3.30 p.m., said Fitzpatrick, he and
his advisers again saw the Treasurer and
there was further discussion as to the
type of licence that could be issued. “As
1 was leaving, Dr. Turnbull asked me
where I was staying, and I told him
Wrest Point Hotel. He told me he was
staying there, too, and then went on to
say that he wished to see me privately
in my room at six o’clock”:
Shortly alter six o’clock, said Fitz-
patrick, Turnbull came to his room and,
after reiterating his earlier remarks about
jeopardising hjs position in Cabinet, said,
“Now, what is in this for me?” Fitz-
patrick said he asked what Turnbull meant,
and Turnbull replied that he didn’t trust
anyone, didn’t believe in promises, and
that he wanted cash and wanted it in
advance.
“Dr. Turnbull then told me he wanted
two certified bank-cheques, each for
£lO,OOO. He would retain for all time the
first cheque for £lO,OOO. He would return
the second cheque if, after I had received
a licence for my company, I would form
a proprietary company in which Dr. Turn-
bull would have the sole beneficial interest
and to which I would pay five per. cent,
of the net profit of the lottery for ten
years,”
Fitzpatrick said the Treasurer went on
to explain that if the condition was not
carried out he would retain the second
cheque also. The cheques would not be
payable to him personally, but to a firm
of brokers whom he would . nominate.
Fitzpatrick said he told Turnbuii he would
not be a party to such a proposal. Turn-
bull suggested that he should talk it over
with his advisers, and that he would return
to Fitzpatrick's room at 11.30 p.m.
Questioned by Mr. Everett (for the
Crown), Fitzpatrick said he would
not have been in a position to raise
£20,000 by the following morning. He
had not said to Turnbull, “I will look
after you with 3 per cent, of the profits
if you are found-out.” Nor had he said
that if a licence was granted to his com-
pany “it would be worth £20,000 to the
Labor party.” He had not said, “This
is worth £5OOO per annum to you.”
■piTzpATßioc said he had outlined the
six-o’clock conversation to Whitham,
Rollason and his Hobart manager, V. A.
Hume. They had later visited the Pre-
mier, and Drysdale’s solicitor, Mills. Just
before Turnbull arrived for the 11.30 p.m.
interview Whitham went through the
window onto the balcony. It had been
intended that Rollason should hide there,
too, but Turnbull entered before he could
do so. Rollason and Hume then left him
alone with Turnbull.
After they had gone Turnbull asked
him if the rooms on either side were
occupied. He said he didn’t know. Turn-
bull then asked him if the windows were
open, and he pointed out that the curtains
were half-drawn, Turnbull asked him to
draw them and he did so.
He told the Treasurer that he had told
his advisers of the proposal. He then
repeated that in no circumstances would
he be a party to it.
K. J. Binns, Tasmanian Under-Trea-
surer, told the court that Fitzpatrick’s
application for a licence was handed to
him by deputy Under-Treasurer Casey
on November 12. He and Casey spoke
to the Treasurer at about 9 a.m. and
Casey said Fitzpatrick was anxious to
get the licence that day. The Treasurer
had said there was little chance of his
agreeing to issue the licence that day as
he had never met Fitzpatrick and would
require to be satisfied that he was a fit
and proper person.
Binns said he and Casey saw the Minis-
ter again next morning:
“He told us that the licence would not
be issued to Fitzpatrick in any circum-
stances.” Turnbull showed them a letter
he had written to Fitzpatrick. Binns sug-
gested two alterations —that the letter
should not be marked “confidential,” as it
was an official letter; and that Turnbull
should sign it as Treasurer and not merely
with his personal signature.
Later that morning, said Binns, Fitz-
patrick came to him and said he had
something to tell him about the character
of “the person who for the time being
is the Treasurer.” Next day, he (Binns)
told the Treasurer that Fitzpatrick had
alleged that he had demanded a bribe.
He had tried to tell the Treasurer all
that Fitzpatrick had said, but Turnbull
kept interrupting with counter-allegations.
“I think it was at this stage the Treasurer
remarked that this was all part of a plot
engineered by the Premier to get him out
of the Government.”
Binns said he had warned .the Trea-
surer against seeing people on official
matters by himself. He referred to meet-
ings Turnbull had had about proposals
regarding football-pools and in connec-
tion with the granting of wholesale
liquor-licences.
The Treasurer then gave his version of
the two Wrest Point conversations. He
said the bribe had been offered to him
at the six-o’clock meeting. The reason
he had not denounced Fitzpatrick imme-
diately was that he felt sure Whitham had
been concealed in the bathroom. Of the
11.30 p.m. meeting Binns said Turnbull
told him the reason he went was to “tell
Fitzpatrick there was no point in Fitz-
patrick’s seeing the Premier, because it
was he, as Treasurer, who was authorised
to issue the licence.” He had told Fitz-
patrick that no licence would be issued
to any company with which he was
associated.
■Explaining his presence on the balcony
on the night of November 12, H. S.
Whitham said he went there “because I
considered my client was in a very dan-
gerous position and it was essential that
there should be independent evidence of
what transpired between him and the
Treasurer”: —
It had not been intended that he should
be the only witness, but “Rollason was
putting on an overcoat preparatory to join-
ing me when there was a knock at the
door.” Whitham said he heard the others
leave, then he heard a voice, which he
believed to be Turnbull’s, ask, “Are the
rooms on either side occupied?” He
heard Fitzpatrick say, “1 don’t know.
They may be.” The voice had then said,
“Are the windows open?” Fitzpatrick
had drawn the curtains and then said
something to the effect of, “Now, no one
can hear anything.” After that he was
only able to distinguish a few words. He
heard Fitzpatrick say the words “advisers”
and “certified cheques.”
Questioned about his hearing defect,
Whitham said he was not; conscious of
it in normal life. Asked by Mr. Everett
whether he had been in Fitzpatrick’s bath-
room during the six-o’clock interview, he
said, “No, I certainly was not. I was
in the lounge.”
A statement produced in court by the
deputy Police Commissioner, Lewis, and
allegedly written by Turnbull, said that
Turnbull had gone to Fitzpatrick’s room
at 6.15 p.m. at the phoned invitation of
Fitzpatrick. The question of a transfer
was discussed:
I finally told him that it would be
worth my seat in Parliament if 1 gave
him the licence. He said that if 1 were
thrown out for giving him a licence he
would look after me with three per cent,
of the profits. 1 told him 1 was not
interested, and he then said that if a
licence were granted to his company it
would be worth £20.000 to the Labof party.
I think he said he had two banker’s
cheques to cover that amount. I told him
again that 1 was not interested in either
proposition and he would have to take
it up with the Premier. The first thing
next morning I sent him a letter telling
him as Treasurer that 1 refused to grant
him a personal licence.
At the conclusion of the Crown case
the magistrate found that Dr. Turnbull
had a case to answer on the two charges ;
the case was adjourned until July 3 for
the defence to decide whether to call
evidence.


SPORTING NOTIONS
VOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
First National
Over the next fortnight the
V.R.C. will conduct its Grand
National meeting, the Hurdle
next Saturday, the Steeple the
following week. No other
races on the Victorian calendar
provide such &n exacting test
of a horse’s courage and
stamina. - x
The Grand National Hurdle,
dating to 1881, is over three
miles, with 15 hurdles. It is a
particularly stern test for
heavily-weighted horses ; of the
77 winners, only 14 haye carried
over 11st. Cheery Jack lumped
11.7 in his 1940 win,,and set
a time record, 5.28, which still
stands. One has to go back
to 1884 for the weight-carrying
record —Don Quixote’s success
with 11.13.
• • • •
The blood of David has had
an extraordinary influence in
jumping races in Melbourne
.over the last two decades. From
1940 to 1946 five Grand
National Hurdle winners were
by that horse. Frank Douglas
has the riding record for the
race four Grand National
Hurdles.
m • • •
Hurdle-racing in Melbourne
this winter has not produced
an outstanding performer, and
betting on the National next
Saturday should be wide.
Selections: Jolly Bounder, 1;
Law Glide, 2 ; McKenna, 3.
• • • •
The Federal Hurdle (2 miles,
1 furlong) at-Moonee Valley
last Saturday did more to
discount Grand National
prospects than give a lead;
the inconsistent Res o 11 o
winning by a great space. At
his best he might be up to
National standard, but it’s
likely he would find the three
miles more than he could
manage. The Federal Hurdle
proved that Book Value, jump-
ing star last winter, has not
come back. He beat only one
horse home. Theadon, winner
four times straight in weak
company before the Federal,
ran third behind Resotto, but
it was not a National run. Mc-
Kenna finished well back in the
Federal, but he is a true
Flemington horse, and \vill do
much better in the National.
The remarkable old Perri-
coota gelding Van Perri
won yet another steeplechase at
the Valley: he is almost in-
vincible at the circular track.
In actual figures he has won
13 ’chases at the Valley, and in
his long career—he is rising
10 —he has won only five races
at other tracks. It was the
Commonwealth Steeple on
Saturday, third time- he has
won that face in the last four
years, and in 1956 he finished
second in it to the mighty
Pedro’s Pride. Van Perri’s
stake-winnings arc now £14,850
—second to The Feline as the
greatest jumping sfakewinner in
Australia. As. this page has
"We haven t signed that contract yet , have We, Simpson ?”
mentioned before, his stake-
earnings are remarkable for a
horse, lacking the stamina to
win an important jumping race.
Owner Reg Ansett, at present
in America, will be pleased to
get news of the latest success
—he has a warm regard for the
old gelding.
There might be a good
future ahead of three-year-old
gelding Bambara, who won the
13-furlongs Ardoch Handicap
at the Valley. The youngster
has inherited the stamina of
his sire, Comic Court —indeed
he is bred well enough to win
anything. His dam, Surma, was
a pretty good performer her-
self, and was a half-sister to
Bronton, winner as a three-
year-old of the rich Cox Plate.
Surma was by Dhoti from
Battle Royal by The Night
Patrol from Battery Queen by
Comedy King. Bambara is
raced by V.R.C. vice-chairman
E. A.' Underwood.
• • • •
The unusual run of suc-
cesses by two - year - old
favorites at Moonee Valley
this season had to stop sooner
or later, but it was not to be
expected that it would come
to such a dramatic end as it
did last Saturday. The Melba
Handicap for two-year-old
fillies was run in two divisions,
and the winning double paid
no less than £2232 1 Is. for a
ss. ticket —easily a record for
the doubles-tote in Victoria
(previous highest, £1334 175.).
Ghicola, winner of the First
Melba Handicap at her first
start in a race, is by Empyrean
from Libyan Lass. Her dam
died a few days after she was
born, and she was fostered by
a draught mare. She is raced
by Mrs. J. Foster, whose hus-
band bred the filly. Chicola’s
trainer is one of the youngest
men in the business; 26-year-
old Les Fisher, who has also
been successful with Olympic
Fire.
• • • •
Second Melba winner,
Smokelea, had recently found
a small copntry Maiden
beyond her. Trainer N. Hen-
nington, who bred the filly
(by Smokey Eyes from Miss
Golea) and sold her to his
patron, confectioner A.
Thorpe, confessed after the
race that he had despaired of
Smokelea ever producing in
a race the ability she showed
in her track-trials. Hot
favorite was the lightly-raced
Meadow Mist filly Misty Elm,
owned by V.R.C. chairman
Sir Chester Manifold. It
might pay to overlook Misty
Elm’s defeat. She lost ground
at the start, and did well to
run third.
• • • •
There was another two-
year-old event on the Valley
card the mile Piccaninny
Handicap—and it, too, was
won by a youngster not pre-
viously successful in the city;
the good-looking black colt
Dusty Light, who’s by Light-
house 11, sire of Sailor’s
Guide,
Rarely in Australia has any
race been run in such circum-
stances as the second Oaks
Park Handicap, last race at
the Valley on Saturday.
Dense fog cut off all view
of the race until the field
swung into the short straight;
only the starting-bell gave
news that the race was on
Anyway, the fog didn’t
hamper the horses. The win-
ner, Golbury, cut out the six
furlongs less 20yds. in
1.12 7/10, smartest time of
the four events decided over
that distance during the meet-
ing. The winner .is a three-
year-old gelding by Watering-
bury from Miss Golea (who
also produced Smokelea). x
• • • •
One of the most pleasing
things to have seen demon-
strated ki recent Melbourne
racing is the fact that that
grand mare Pedro’s Pride is
as good again this season as
she was last year. If she stands
up to racing, it will take an
extraordinary performance by
any other horse to displace her
from favoritism for the Grand
National Steeplechase. Her
performance at Caulfield a
fortnight ago was really
splendid. A “first-up” per-
formance, 'in which she
humped topweight of 12.9,
spotting the opposition any-
thing from 301 b. to 511 b., it
should rate as even one of her
best. Neither weight nor lack
of racing made the slightest
difference to the big mare.
She cleared the fences in the
same effortless style that won
her six races in a row last
winter, and she was being
eased-down on the line, to win
as she liked. Barring accidents,
her prodigious burden of 12.7
will not prevent her from win-
ning her second successive
National.
* * *
The Ten Thousand
Last weekend’s racing had
little bearing on next Satur-
day’s Doomben Ten Thou-
sand. Black Desmond, who
formerly raced without much
success in Sydney and is not
in the Ten Thousand, won the
main sprint at Eagle Farm.
Diamond Vista was expected
to have his final outing for
the Ten Thousand in the
Healy Stakes, but he wasn’t
paid-up for at the official time,
and hence had to be taken
from the race by the stewards
—a disappointment to his


— INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
(Incorporated in the British Colony ot Bong Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £19,800,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 813 1 (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
Randwick trainer, Harry
Plant.
• • • •
At Warwick Farm on Satur-
day minor placegetters Grey
Ghost and Troy in the Wilson
Handicap, chief sprint of the
day, hardly shaped well
enough to give them a chance
of downing the better-fancied
horses .at Doomben.
• • • •
Since the distance for the
Doomben Ten Thousand
was increased from six
furlongs to seven furlongs less
93yds. the fastest time, 1.17-J-,
stands to the credit of High-
strung (1947). Most notable
performance in the big double
is still Bernborough’s winning
of the Ten Thousand with 10.5,
and the Doomben Cup with
10.11 in 1946. Worth recalling
also that in 1942, when the
sprint was decided over seven
furlongs at Albion Park, cham-
pion of that track Auction
jvon with 10.12.
• • • •
Selections for the Ten
Thousand: Yahabeebe, 1;
Squander Lad, 2 k , Diamond
Vista, 3.
* * *
At Saturday’s Warwick
Farm meeting Jack Bourke
acted for the first time in his
position as chief A.J.C. stipen-
diary steward. He graduated
to it from a job as an office-
clerk with the former Asso-
ciated (“pony”) Clubs, and
had been acting-chairman
while Percy Bartley was on
leave. Bartley, who did a
grand job for the A.J.C.,
resigned last Friday. Bourke
is both capable and popular,
and knows all sides of the
racing game and the people
connected with it. He joined
the A.J.C. panel «f stewards
in February, 1949 ; before,
that he was for three years
with the W.A.T.C. in Perth,
the last 18 months as chair-
man. He was also for a time
a steward' with the Central
Queensland Association.
• • •' •
Recap won his second race
when he coasted-in with the
opening event at Warwick
Farm, the First Casula
Novice. Topweight Snow
Castle was made favorite, but
was all at sea in the heavy
going and faded over the final
furlong. Recap, trained at
Randwick by Jim Mackinnon
for T. M. Gadsby, is a gelded
son of Rego (imp.) and Kerrie
Anne. SuCh noted stayers as
Amounis and Piastre figure in
his pedigree. Darkpoint ran
his best race to date, and
should soon win.
• '• • •
Robin Tout, winner of the
Second Casula, is an
Edwardsii (imp.) colt from
Redress, and is trained at
Rosehill by Morrie Anderson,
who later in the day played-up
some of his winnings on the
colt’s stablemate, Gentle Lu,
winner of the Wilson Handi-
cap ; she was backed from
sevens to 4 to 1. Robin Tout
had won a barrier-trial at
Warwick Farm a week earlier,
but race-form had been
mediocre.
• • • •
Leebana and Royal Per-
ception both ran well enough
at Warwick Farm to be worth
remembering.
. Canterbury trainer Jack
Denham, who has a big team
im work and wins his share of
races, added to his list at
Warwick Farm when Avro
won the Silverdale Novice
Two-year-old for fillies. Avro
had scored at " Canterbury
Park at her prior start, at
50 to 1. The track was soft
at Canterbury and again was
rain - affected at Warwick
Farm. Avro, backed to
favoritism on Saturday, won
well. She had defeated Squan-
derline at Canterbury and met
that filly on better terms,
which was a bit puzzling.
Squanderline ran another
game race for second money
—the third time on end she
had acted as runner-up.
Trainer Denham paid a
modest 325gns. for Avro at
the Randwick yearling-sales
last year. She is by Bob
Cherry (imp.) from Avain by
Confessor (imp.) from Flying
Queen by Golden Sovereign
(imp.). Family-lines include
Aristocrat and Flying Duke.
Like Squanderline, another
to again run an exasperating
second at Warwick Farm was
El Rocco, one of Darby
Munro’s gallopers. El Rocco
looked a picture of race-
condition as he left for the
starting-gates, as did Briar
Bay, who just nosed him out
of first-money. Both horses
caried 9st., and they did well
to battle-out the finish with
steady rain falling and the
track by then badly cut-up.
• • • •
George Moore’s clever
tactics and hard riding had
most to do with Medallion’s
win in the Warwick Farm
Fraser Handicap.. At that, the
T. J. Smith-trained gelding
only just held-off a determined
challenge by Colvalley, who,
though certainly well ridden by
Selkrig, would probably have"
won with a clear run in the
final furlong. Anyway, Col-
valley should soon add to his
winnings.
• • • •
Form-horses finished first
and second in the Landsdowne
Stakes at Warwick Farm, both
of them heavily backed, with
Majestic Palms ousting former
Melbourne galloper Hey Presto
from favoritism, and landing
the money. Majestic Palms,
having her first city win, gave
her trainer, Jack Carter, his
first metropolitan win, too. A
former country mentor, Carter
trains his horse's at Rosebery.
Apprentice Keith Smith rode
a confident race on Majestic
Palms, who should quickly add
to stake-earnings.
• • • m
Owner Frank Dono h o e
expressed complete confidence
in Gregory John’s winning
prospects in the Carramar
Welter at Warwick Farm, but
bookmakers offered as much as
7 to 1 about the gelding (it was
sevens the field at one stage).
He finally started favorite at
9 to 2. Apprentice D. Allen
again had the mount, and
repeated the- tactics he had
successfully employed when the
gelding won at his prior start
at Randwick on June 16. It
was Gregory John’s fourth win
in five starts, including his two
in a day. He is by Lawrence
from My Eva by Hellespont
(Fr.) from Nutalli by Magpie
(imp.), and belongs to the
Winooka and the Arachne
families. Donohoe, who trains
the consistent galloper, also
trained Arachne, whose wins
included the 1935 Oakleigh
Plate.
* * *
A few years back greys were
rather rarities on Sydney
courses ; today there’s seldom
a race-meeting withopt a few
of them in the , line-ups.
They’re winning their share,
too; recent winners and place-
getters include Grey Ghost,
Clear Profit, Grey Magic, Snow
Castle, Shamrock, Permel and
Blue Charger. One more of
them, Nearlee, a gelding by
Nearway (imp.) from Dorylee,
won a recent Gosford Three-
vear-old Maiden from another
grey, Regency Rake. The dam,
Dorylee, is a grey bred in
France.
Grafton (N.S.W.) racing-
clubs are now having their
Jbig annual meetings. Most
important event is the Grafton
Cup, run at 1| mile and
100yds., and worth £1250 plus
a trophy valued at lOOgns. The
Cup is run on July 17. The
£4OO Ramornie Handicap, six
furlongs, is the main C.R.J.C.
event on the first day, July 16.
Top two - year - old filly
Wiggle, winner of the Strati-
broke, is expected to add con-
siderably to her prizemoney in
the coming season (which
begins, of course, on August
1). A New Zealander now in
Melbourne, where three-year-
old fillies are well catered for,
is expected to provide some
opposition. The Dominion-bred
hope is Palos Verdes. She is
by Gabador (imp.) from Lady
Ex by Lord Quex (imp.) from
Extravagant by Tea Tray
(imp.). Her family-lines include
Gay Sierra, The Maori and
Royal Cipher. She’ll need to
be good.
“J.A.C.”: Gregory John’s
two wins on one day at War-
wick Farm a few weeks back
reminds me that at Fifield
(N.S.W.) oh Boxing Day, 1915,
a black horse, Rylanthus, won
three races of a six-race
programme the Opening
Handicap (six Lurlongs), Fifield
Cup (1 mile) and Welter Handi-
cap (six furlongs). No walk-
overs, the smallest field of the
day being six horses. Each
win carried a penalty, and a
sweltering summer’s afternoon
added merit to the performance.
Well-known western sportsman
Frank Bird, still hale and
hearty at'Bogan Gate (N.S.W.),
was the jockey who got the
“hat-trick.”
'• + +
Sundry Sports
Australia v. Maoris in the
second Rugby Union Test at
Sydney Cricket Ground is fully
described as a 3-all draw in the
mud —about the worst kind of
football to wafcch, though not
the worst kind of football.
Only scores were penalty goals,


NOTHING EQUALS
WARMRAY'S AMAZiNG EFFICIENCY!
wssrmray
•ISAM MASK REOD, MW
r # TRIPLE PURPOSE
• SLOW COMBUSTION
• AIR CONDITIONING
HOME HEATER
NEW MODEL '
has over 7,000 cu. ft.
heating capacity,
equipped with a non-
jamming shaker
grate.
• BURNS ANY SOUD
FUEL AND NEED
NEVER GO OUT.
★ Beautifully enamelled
on solid cast iron, Model
H.D. introduces a new mottled
CERAMIC GREY, a matching tint for the
contemporary or traditional home.
HAWAIIAN CREAM is also available.
Owing to fuel saving the’ "Warmray" ACTUALLY COSTS
h. NOTHING! Reduces fuel bill at least 75 per cent.
1
—'■
p
'.• .:
: ■■
SSI
Installs in rooms'
with or without
fireplaces.
Mode! No. 3
Super De luxe
★ Large capacity
—Over 10,000
ch. ft. . .
★ Special large
firebox for
long burning
without atten-
tion.
★ Extra large
hotplate for
cooking.
The secret of Warniray’s efficiency is the
patented Heating Tubes (illustrated) which
are built into the firebox. The air in the
room passes through these tubes continu-
ously, thus maintaining an even, overall
WORLD PATENTED
HEATING TUBES MAKE
THIS THE MOST
ECONOMICAL AND
BEST ROOM HEATER OF
THEM ALL, REGARDLESS
OF PRICE
IZS-Z
Uj
WARM RAY
heating tubes
★ BEWARE OF IMITATIONS
imitated?? Often!!
Equalled?? Never!!
Sold by Stores, Builders’ Suppliers and
Hardware Merchants everywhere.
WARMRAY PTY. LTD.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors
Cliallis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Telegrams: “Warmray,” BL 2217.
If unobtainable locally, ’phone, write or call
for illustrated brochure and name of nearest
agents. S/M9.1
but play was solid and hard
battling all the way.
* * *
Main point of interest in
N.S.W.'s Rugby League defeat
of Queensland, 23-15, at
Brisbane on Saturday was that
it gave Newtown (Sydney) five-
eighth Tony Brown the chance
to secure his possie in that role
in the side for next Saturday's
Test (also in Brisbane). Only
change in the Australian Test
team is the replacement of
lan Moir (injured), with
Hawick the automatic choice.
* * *
“Zorok”: Pudsey, a little
Yorkshire village just outside
Leeds, has produced three
champion sportsmen Eng-
land’s opening-batsmen Sut-
cliffe and Hutton ; and Mike
Sullivan, speedy Rugby League
winger in the English team
now touring Australia.
* * *
“Fontaine”: V.F.L. authori-
ties are noting with some
concern that total attendances
at matches played this season
are well down on corres-
ponding figures for last year.
Total attendances are now
about 142,000 a week,
and the fall works-out at
about 10,000 every Saturday.
Searching for the cause, some
commentators blame TV.
They point out that in Adelaide
and Perth, where there is no
TV, football attendances have
risen this year. The explana-
tion may or may not be
correct, but it seems to over-
look two factors. First, the
V.F.L. authorities have limited
the TV stations in Melbourne
to telecasting only the last
quarters of certain, matches,
which is definitely not enough
to keep the average football
fan at home. Secondly, it does
not take into account the
steady increase in Soccer’s
popularity. Among Victoria’s
big intake of migrants are
many from Britain and the
Continent who are Soccer
players or fans ; naturally they
want to play or to see their
own game, and they are doing
that along with many Old
Australians. Anyhow, Sydney
has proved that in a big city
there is room for all the foot-
ball codes.
“Xavier”: Playing in the Vic-
torian Amateur Association,
Old Xaverians might claim
to be the tallest team in
the country in any football
code. With a training-list
of 40 the average height is
6ft. Seventeen are taller. In
one match this season 14 of
the 18 players were six-footers
or better. The team could, if
necessary, field a full side aver-
aging beyond the 6ft. limit.
“Rossby”: The biggest
crowd ever to see a V.F.L.
home-and-home game (99,346)
got their money's worth at
the M.C.G. on the Queen’s
Birthday when Melbourne
defeated Collingwood by 11
points, 12.12-10.13. There was
a real “grand-final’' atmosphere
about it, and there was an
appropriately thrilling finish.
Collingwood led by a point
with only minutes to go, but in
“time-on’’ Melbourne put on
two goals. The game was a
“battle of giants," with the
Demons, who deserved their
win, beating the Magpies in
most positions.
“Blocker": The announce-
ment that Jack Baggott, former
champion half-forward, has
been appointed assistant to
Melbourne's (V.F.L.) coach,
Norm Smith, will draw wry
smiles from other teams’ fans,
most of whom reckon that
Smithie, with two consecutive
premierships behind him and a
third virtually in his grasp, has
been doing a pretty fair job
sola. It follows that other
clubs will have to make
similar appointments to have
hopes of ever matching the
Demons, and it probably means
that in Ted Whitten, of Foots-
cray, and Ron Clegg, of South
Melbourne, we are seeing the
last of V.F.L. playing-coaches.
Only, specialists can succeed in
football today.
* * *
“Vic”: One of the few
sportsmen in the Birthday
Honors, Jack Ryder (he col-
lected an M.8.E.) has been an
Australian and State cricket
selector for more than two
decades. Now hale in his
seventies, the former Test
skipper has been associated
with the Collingwood (Mel-
bourne) cricket and football
clubs for more than half a
century.
* * *
For the third time in four
years the Lakes Open goif
tournament went to Sydney
professional Kel Nagle, who in
a tight finish defeated 20-year-
old amateur Bruce Devlin by a
stroke. Nagle finished the 72
holes with 290 —two over par.
Victorian pro. J. Harris,’ third,
was nine strokes behind the
winner.
* * *
Light - heavyweights head-
lined the bill when boxing was
resumed at Leichhardt last
week, “Bull" Hughes (12.8)
getting Vic Patrick’s decision
over Harry Castles (11.12).


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GBOKOE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS, G. GORDON RUSSELL, A. MURRAY JONES,
HUGH DIXSON.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
STOP LONELINESS!
We have the right partner for von.
Hundreds of lonely people of opposite
sex to choose from, everywhere, all
ages, nationalities, occupations, seeking
romance. Write TODAY for FREE bro-
chure No. W 45. State your age, sex,
address, etc. We reply in plain sealed
envelope. Confidential. No obligation.
MILTON’S,
Box 2871, G.P.0., Sydney.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Copy of King Jesus, by Robert
Graves.—6724.
Copy of The Bulletin Reciter
and a book of poems called Iron-
bark Splinters. —6725.
To buy a copy of Samuel
Alexander s Space, Time and Deity .
—6726-
Information Sought
What, exactly, is nebular
hypothesis ?
Nebular hypothesis is an attempt
to explain the origin of the solar-
system as an evolution from a
nebula. Tentative explanations
were propounded by Swedenborg
and Kant along these lines, but
Laplace was the first to develop
a nebular hypothesis on a strictly
scientific basis. His hypothesis
imagined that rotating nebulae were
originally formed by the condensa-
tion of gaseous matter; the sun,
he argued, was in the beginning
a nebula of this type. As the
nebula continued to shrink it
rotated faster and faster until frag-
ments broke away from the main
body of the sun. Condensing under
their own gravitational attraction,
these fragments became the planets
that continued to describe orbits
around the sun under its gravi-
tational attraction.
It may be true that stars origin-
ate from nebulae in the manner
indicated by Laplace; but this
accounts only for the creation of
our sun. According to the tidal
theory, propounded by Sir James
Jeans the solar-system was created
from the original sun by the close
approach of a larger star that
raised tides of such violence in
the sun as to cause fragments to
be torn off it to form the planets,
comets, etc.—in other words, the
bodies which, with the sun, con-
stitute the solar-system. But this
theory has long since been dis-
proved by H. N. Russell, an Ameri-
can astronomer. Several other
hypotheses have been advanced
but have not been accepted. The
origin of the solar-system* still
remains one of the unsolved
problems of astronomy.
* * • •
What is the legend connected
with Isis, ancient Egyptian goddess ?
Isis was the goddess of fecundity,
identified in Greek mythology with
Ceres. She was the wife of Osiris
and the mother of Horus, and
daughter of Nut, or the Sky. Her
story is as follows: Osiris, king
of Egypt, was the victim of a con-
spiracy led by his brother, Set, the
god of evil. Osiris, entrapped in
a chest which was thrown into the
Nile and carried -away, was finally
thrown up on the seashore. After
a long search Isis found the chest,
mourned over it, and, hiding it,
went to urge Horus to avenge his
father. Meanwhile Set, finding the
chest, cut the body of Osiris into
14 pieces and had them dispersed
over the land. Isis then gave her-
self up to travelling from place to
place, building a temple over each
fragment of her husband’s body
as she found it.
Osiris became lord of the other
world, and appeared to his son
Horus and taught aim the use
of arms; , Horus defeated Set and
took him prisoner, but, angry
because his mother gave Set his
freedom, he cut oft her head.
Thoth replaced it in the form of
a cow. The outstretched wings of
Isis are frequently found in
Egyptian decoration; she is often
represented with the face of a
woman and the horns of a cow,
sometimes with the lotus on her
head, at other times hooded —the
latter signifying incidents in her
career.
* * * *
Details of the M.L.C. building
at North Sydney? What are its
dimensions ? Is it the biggest build-
ing in Sydney?
The new building, head-office of
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co., Ltd., has a gross
floor-space of over 450,000 sq. ft.
—a little over 10' acres. It is the
largest office-building in Australia,
and the first building to be com-
pleted in Sydney with a fully rigid
steel frame and hollow steel floors.
Parking-space in the basement
accommodates 120 cars, and there
is a theatrette on the ground-floor
seating 150. Marble, granite and
terra-cotta facings, aluminium,
glass, combined with feature-murals,
lormed in mosaic tiles, are co-
ordinated on the building’s exterior.
The building has three com-
ponents : the large west block
facing Miller Street, the central
service-tower and the smaller east
block facing Denison Street. Both
blocks are connected by the service-
tower to form one functional unit,
and the tower itself contains all
the lifts and toilet facilities. There
is a basement, lower ground-floor,
ground-floor and upper ground-
floor, making a total of 15 stories.
The east block, facing Denison
Street, is seven stories less in
height than the west block. Each
floor is comparatively slender (in
the west block 55ft. in width, in
the east block 49ft.) so that with
continuous windows on each side
every floor has a brilliant natural
lighting.
Vermiculite plaster is used as a
fireproofing medium for the struc-
tural steelwork floors and curtain-
walls in place of the normal heavy
concrete protection. This allows
the use of “lightweight” floors con-
sisting of stamped interlocking
metal “pans” with a concrete
screed over and with ‘ a suspended
fire-barrier beneath, all connecting
with the vermiculite spandrel
curtain-walls to give a perfect fire-
proof seal. External curtain-walls
are formed with anodised
aluminium window-frames in con-
junction with fixed glass and
anodised aluminium panels.
Glazing consists of heat-resisting
glass to the outer windows with
normal clear plate-glass to internal
windows. Main entrance to the
building is from Miller Street over
a light prestressed concrete bridge-
way. The entrance-foyer is the
principal reception entrance to the
building. All, office-areas are
covered with linoleum tiles of
pattern and color specially run for
“YOU'RE the hypocrite,. Mr. Smith, who reproved ME
for flirting with the junior typist.”
the job. Wood-parquetry flooring
is laid in the main dining- and
lounge-room areas on the ground-
floor. '
The passenger-lifts are fully
automatic with push-button con-
trols at a master-panel, allowing
the lift-supervisor to vary the run-
ning of the lifts to suit passenger
demand. As well as the 10
passenger-lifts tw'o goods-lifts are
provided for servicing the lower
floors. The 10th floor houses
executive offices of the M.L.C.,
conference-rooms, library, etc.
» * * *
(1) Some points oil writing a
TV-play? What sort of settings
are best? (2) What settings should
he avoided? Any points an actual
production? (3) Names of some
books on the subject? (4 ) What is
kl, ™ sc °P mB •
(1) These basic rules should be
kept in mind: (a) The fewer charac-
ters the better; certainly no more
than a dozen (b) Settings simple,
preferably indoor, and as few as
possible—say, three or four. Out-
door scenes are difficult and exrien-
aoor scenes aie aimcun ana expen
Sive to shoot. However, a certain
number of outdoor shots are stocked
by most TV studios. These are
called “establishment” shots; they
are sometimes used to establish
locale or mood— e.g., crowded city
streets, aeroplanes landing and
taking-off, cars starting or stop-
ping, and so on. Such shots can
be inserted as required during pro-
duction.
(2) . Crowd scenes and broad,
panoramic shots should be avoided
since they’re expensive to produce
and on the small screen look
jumbled and blurry at the edges,
As in movies, the picture should
tell most of the story; dialogue is
secondary, although it must be
telling as well as brief. The close-
up and the medium shot are the
most effective. Montage and trick-
shots are best forgotten. The
script-writer doesn’t have to worry
much about camera-directions. He
merely gives a very general idea
of what the camera is to do; .the
director will decide all shooting-
details. Action should be swift;
costumes few and simple. Avoid
quick changes of costume.
(.3) Television Plays , by Paddy
Chayefsky (Simon and Schuster),
reviewed in B. 14/5/'5B, contains
several scripts worth studying, as
well as some useful notes on TV
writing. Techniques of Television
Production, by Rudi Bretz (£5 Bs.
9d.; McGraw. Hill), is a comprehen-
sive handbook written in simple,
non-technical language.
(4) Three cameras are generally
used in producing a TV-piay. As
most TV productions are shown
more than once {i.e., sent inter-
state, or abroad, or through a net-
work) they are “kinescoped” before
being telecast. This doesn’t mean
that they can be cut and edited
to the same extent as a movie.
“Kinescopmg” is more like record-
ing : a convenient way of relaying
material and timing its transmission.
Scripts should always be written
as if for direct transmission.
(From “J.A.”)


Divorce Notices
IK THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JAMES WILLIAM HURLEY.—
TAKE NOTICE that MARJORIE BEAT-
RICE HURLEY has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2019 of 1958 on the grounds
of your adultery with LURLENE
MARTIN and that the Petitioner is
asking for the exercise of the Court’s
discretion under Section 19 (2) (a) of
the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899-1957
it you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building Sydney
by 29th August 1958 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
REX REYNOLDS, BAKER & CO., Soli-
citors, of 89 Martin Place, Sydney,
Agents for NOEL H. PETERS, Solicitor,
of 120 Blaxland Road, Ryde.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MISS LURLENE MARTIN of Mel-
bourne Victoria. —TAKE NOTICE that
MARJORIE BEATRICE HURLEY has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2019 of
1958 from JAMES WILLIAM HURLEY
on the grounds of his adultery with you.
You may apply to the Court to be
allowed to defend on or before 15th
August 1958 A copy of the Petition
may be obtained from REX REYNOLDS,
BAKER & CO., Solicitors, of 39 Martin
Place, Sydney, Agents for NOEL H.
PETERS, Solicitor, of 120 Blaxland
Road, Ryde.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO COLIN WRIGHT late of Broadway
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that BETTY
HARRISON WRIGHT has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 1698 of 1958 on
the grounds of habitual drunkenness and
lack of support and cruelty for three
years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
Mint Building Macquarie Street Sydney
by 9th September 1958 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from .T. BIRNIE JACKSON & COATES,
Solicitors, of 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce. •
TO DONALD HENRY - MUNEO late of
Moree.—TAKE NOTICE that VERA
PEARL MUNRO has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2167 of 1958 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
Mint Building Macquarie Street Sydney
by 9th September 1958 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from J. BIRNIE JACKSON Si COATES,
Solicitors, of 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar,
IXL
This World Famous Brand id
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packer s of
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—*
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
Brief Answers
W.A.S.: Best possible informa-
tion about service-pensions can be
obtained from the Repatriation
Department in Perth 5.8.: (1)
To evict your tenant means going
through court proceedings. Advise
your solicitor to' serve a notice to
quit; take all other necessary pro-
ceedings to evict her. You should
bear in mind that you will have to
offer her some sort of suitable
alternative accommodation. (2)
Possibly. (3) Pensions do not
depend only on income. Contact
the Department of Social Services.
(4) Flats are registered only for
certain purposes under the Local
Government Act N.L.R.: (1)
Under New South Wales law deser-
tion consists of withdrawing from the
matrimonial condition of living
together; to constitute that ground
of divorce it must be for a period
of three years or more, except in
certain circumstances. It is essential
that there should be an intention
not to return to the old matri-
monial condition. So desertion
can be brought about while the
parties are actually living together.
(2) Desertion has nothing to do
with support. A wife may divorce
a husband who has left home, even
though he continues to support her
and the children... .X.X.: Jack
Carroll (real surname Hardwick)
was born at Kensington (Vic.) on
February 3, 1906; he was sft.
lOi-in, tall and weighed lOst. 71b.
Richards was born at Ipswich (Q.)
©n May 9, 1910; sft. 10in., list.
121 b. Carroll and Richards fought
at Sydney Stadium on July 23,
1934, when Carroll won in 13
rounds —Richards retired because
his right thumb was badly hurt.
1 hey tought each other only once
K.L.: Tyrrell’s, Ltd., 202 George
Street, Sydney, report that they
have two volumes (Nos. 11 and 12)
for the year 1876. Price, 20s. each.
T.L.: The opener of the hand
is not required to show his whole
hand unless he has been “looked
at,” in which case he is obliged
to show the openers A.N.J.C.:
Sorry, the subject is not in our
field of research V.G.: Unable
to say; try the Department of
Social Services, 52 Carrington
Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
G.K.: Your article is still under
consideration... .“Eejaypee” : (1)
and (2) The information came
from the company itself, and must
therefore be considered true. If,
as you say, there is a deviation
regarding a certain number, suggest
you write to the company. (3) No
idea.. i.M.W.i No information;
try either the Harbour Trust or the
Navy. If these cannot help you,
try the search department of the
Mitchell Library... .D.W.K.; Yes,
but the ad. does not specifically
state the goods are surplus war-
supplies. .. .H.C.: It all depends
which course the student is work-
ing at. It would be useless to
suggest textbooks for the wrong
course. Your nearest technical
college will put you right....
“Sanasi”: There are places called
Comb or Combe in Sussex, Devon,
Somerset, “Combs” in Suffolk
(Coombe in Wilts., Dorset and
Hants.) and Coombs in Sussex,
Derby and Dorset. The Welsh
word “cwm” has, , according to
Webster, two meanings: in geolo-
gical terminology if means “a
cirque”; its pure Welsh meaning
is a dale or valley.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will ba
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
E.C.G.: - We’ll have just a
slice of “The Battle of Life”:
This item, a gem taken from the drama
of life,
Shows how an ignorant know-all be-
came intangled in strife.
A-down, the rugged Nowindoe river
I got a shock that made me shiver
Where her wreathing waters twixt brush-
clad mountains flow.
There I searched ’mong cliffs of slate
Prom which my cuttle met their fate
When they crashed on to their death-
beds down below.
And, tho’ I’d sworn I’d bring to book
A noted, cattle-duffing crock
And his swarthy female cobber
’Twas dame Nature’s wilful will
That for years my stock beguiled
Unto their deaths the ruthless robber.
... .G.L.F.: Leave it to Henry
Lawson... .Will E. Wopp: After
the first 64 lines the only question
was Will E. Stop? M.U.:
Quite a thought; but it’s an enor-
mous one lor that small poem.-
O.L.: This is a very painful
story: —-
O I robbed me a Bee Hive; It’s not
the thing to do; you know; when I
robbed me that Bee Hive ; I had lots of
things to do.
You know the Bees. They did object;
they let me know indeed; they drove
their Barb; write to the bone ; my
word; they did indeede.
F. 8.: But does a mustard-seed
grow into “the greatest of
trees”? C.R.M.: Sentimental.
W.R.B 1 .: Whether your subject is
women or the end of the world
you have an enviable but alarming
facility.. . .P.T.: Yes, but you can’t
suddenly begin a conversation with
“Dwell not on the past although
it built this era”... .8.F.H.:
There’s a notion in that “Harlequin"
poem if it wasn't in such a thump-
ing metre J.G. (Coogee): Let's
see another Jack S.: Both got
a second reading N.S.: Not
“bloat.” Your Muse is too
exuberant 8.G.: All right. Bring
in the cat:
Cats
just
scjeech
and
scratch
and
claw,
I
know
I
jammed
one
in
the
door • . .


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1812.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
F. S. WATSON, Manager.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
"Interdependence" at the White House
T ondon “Time and Tide”
comment on the recent
White House talks, at which
Prime Minister Macmillan
demonstrated once again that
he is “always a personal suc-
cess in the U.S., succeeding
effortlessly and immediately in
impressing the American
people”:
“This is partly explained by
his quickness in parrying ques-
tions, and the evidently high
quality of his mind, but not in
any degree by his half-Ameri-
can ancestry, which he tends
to overemphasise. Indeed, a
large part of his popularity is
explained by a quite opposite
reason: Americans take to
him because in speech and
dress and manner he is exactly
what Americans expect a cer-
tain type of Englishman to be.
People are always gratified
when a foreigner exactly fulfils
their preconceptions.”
“Time and Tide” adds, how-
ever, that Macmillan needed
much more than personal suc-
cess in his recent visit. He
probably laid great stress on
the concept of interdependence,
particularly in economics ; but
he has never defined it pre-
cisely enough. “If he hopes to
convert the American Govern-
ment, and through them the
American people, he will have
to show very clear evidence
that closer interdependence
will bring large, direct and
measurable benefits to the
United States.”
Having paid out $57,000
million to foreign recipients
since the end of the war, the
U.S. “is now checking the
books to • find out what the
money brought them. Some
items are hardly reassuring”:
“Laos has.had more Ameri-
can money per head of popula-
tion than any other part of
the world: Laos has expressed
its gratitude by returning
a Communist Government,
headed by the very man who
handles that money. American
investment in South America
has been enormously greater
London “Doily Mirror.”
SHRINKING MEN?
Vicky’s comment on the report that “the British and American Governments ‘agree
about everything but don’t know quite what to do about it’—they are 'baffled by
the immense complexity of things.'”
than the population would
warrant: South America’s
acknowledgment was to spit in
Mr. Nixon’s face.
“Mr. Nixon has gone to
extraordinary lengths to ex-
plain away the disgraceful mal-
treatment of himself and his
wife, but the shock to Ameri-
can opinion w ; as severe and
calculated to reinforce the
popular demand that interde-
pendence should yield the
United States some more satis-
factory dividend than abuse
and the burning of American
buildings. It is all the more to
Mr. Macmillan’s credit —and,
as a matter of fact, to the credit
of some cool heads in the
American Administration
that he has made as much pro-
gress as he seems to have done.”
There are two other reasons,
adds “Time and Tide,” for
the increasing importance of
public opinion in the U.S. at
present:
“First, there is no firm and
unambiguous leadership from
the top. For reasons of tem-
perament as much as for rea-
sons of health, it is now
abundantly clear that the Presi-
dent is incapable of carrying
the nation with him by the
force of his own personality.
The people will no longer sup-
press their private doubts and
fall in behind him out of faith
in his judgment and decision.
The Eisenhower Age is over.”
Second, “American opinion
is in a state of flux.” The
Northern Democrats, “com-
mitted to foreign aid and inter-
nationalism,” are finding that
the recession and their alliance
with Reuther’s trade-union
oligarchy have dimmed their
“bright electoral hopes.” With-
out clear leadership or trend
of opinion, “the grass-roots
judgment has assumed quite
unusual importance.” Such a
judgment “will not easily be
won to a view that ‘interde-
pendence’ means much more
than another give-away,” even
though Macmillan is right in
insisting on it.
“Americans are particularly
shy about “summit” talks, for
they feel that Roosevelt, Tru-
man and Eisenhower were
bubbled in turn by the
Russians, and they have no
disposition to see their Govern-
ment taking part once again
in a diplomatic three-card
trick.”
Over any discussions must
lie “the shadow of General de
Gaulle.” The American people
were possibly even more hostile
than the British to his return to
power; but now he is back,
and has brought with him into
Western political life “the
element of plain command and
decisiveness, for which people
have been unconsciously
craving.” Unless and until he
fails, the Prime Minister and
the President cannot profitably
discuss anything “without pay-
ing serious attention to a
third Power factor.”
London “Economist” com-
ments editorially on the White
House talks that “the leading
men in Nato are obviously
racing against the time when
they will no longer be in office
to establish patterns of conduct
for their successors”:
“The trick, as both British
and American leaders recognise,
is to establish close routine
relationships between their
officials at the working level
and yet not to arouse the
jealousy of America’s other
allies at the same time.
“The British profess to view


WHY SUFFER FROM
RHEUMATISM ARTHRITIS
Compounded from an old Indian Formula, STRATTONS RHEUMATIC
and ARTHRITIS POWDER contains no harmful drugs, will not affect
the heart and has successfully overcome the most difficult and
obstinate cases when all other treatments have failed. Persons in all
walks of life have found freedom from buffering, and hundreds of
grateful letters from satisfied users have been received by our
Consultant whose Treatment Advice is made available to you
FREE OF CHARGE as part of our Personalised Service which has
revolutionised the treatment of all types of Rheumatism and Arthritis
throughout the Commonwealth.
Four Weeks Treatment complete with Advice and Instructions and a
SPECIAL CONCESSION VOUCHER if your complaint needs further
treatment . . . costs only £1 POST FREE. *
STRATTONS RHEUMATIC POWDER Ltd.
9 Barrack St., P&rth, W.A,
the months since the Prime
Minister first launched the idea
of ‘interdependence’ with some
satisfaction. The economic
knights Sir Leslie Rowan and
Sir Robert Hall have slipped
over twice ; a scientific trio, Sir
Edwin Plowden (who is in
Washington so frequently that
scarcely any public note is
taken of his comings), Sir
William Penney and Sir
Frederick Bru n d e 11, were
already there when the Prime
Minister flew in.
“But the British regard it as
absolutely essential to this in-
creasingly cosy relationship
that the idea should not get
around that whenever they turn-
up they will have requests for
which the United States will
ultimately be obliged to foot
the bill. Otherwise they fear an
old tag will be twisted to read:
‘Beware the British bearing
plans.’
“One question he [Mac-
millan] certainly raised was that
of West Germany, which has
been ‘collecting ail the chips’ in
international trade and failing
to redistribute them by invest-
ment so that the game can go
on. Mr. Macmillan has been
explaining to his American
friends that, while the British
would prefer to play the game
in the old way in which wealth
was simply poured over the
world by private investors, the
British themselves, although
they have the know-how for
doing this, simply do not have
enough funds; the Germans
claim that they do not have the
know-how to operate a capital-
market of this kind; and the
Americans, although they have
done a good deal, are also not
accustomed to playing the
creditor through private
markets. Therefore Mr. Mac-
millan’s argument means that
the job will have to be done
through international institu-
tions.
“The Prime Minister’s
method, in short, is to apply
gentle massage in the hope that
this will lead to a flow of ideas
to the American brain. There
is a real danger that this process
may not work, though there is
evidence that the special
problems of the sterling area
are being more fully appreci-
ated in some quarters in the
United States.”
Nuclear Disarmament
London “News Chronicle”
comment on a Commons
debate on nuclear disarma-
ment :
“Ordinary people all over the
world long for disarmament
and freedom from fear. Unless
one starts with this conviction,
all the talks and conferences
and speeches are a waste of
time.
“What says Nye Bevan? The
H-bomb is no longer a weapon
of defence. Nor is it even a
means of influence. Disarma-
Hamburg “Die Zeiti."
INTERNATIONAUSED ANTARCTIC.
ment can now for the first time
be ‘physically and psychologi-
cally separated from political
settlements between the great
Powers.’
“To make the H-bomb sound
quite as irrelevant as this is a
new line of thought. Its possible
value as a deterrent to war is
ignored. But this is a man
who hates war, thinking aloud.
“What says Duncan Sandys
[U.K. Defence Minister]?
Making no formal proposals,
he sets up a goal, distant but
defined. He wants a World
Security Authority with a
subordinate international arms
inspectorate and an interna-
tional police-force. He wants
all these three bodies set up
before the physical process of
disarmament begins.
“This is bound to sound
Utopian. The Russians are
likely to jib at inspection. Is it
really commonsense to go for
Utopia first and tackle disarma-
ment later?
“What the world public
would like is some action bear-
ing visible results. They are
sick to death of the talk and
the double-talk. Since we are
dealing with Soviet Russia a
practical start can only be
made in a practical way. This
in turn means starting on
common ground.
“The common ground we
share is the existence of the
H-bomb and its implications
for mankind. Something must
be done before every nation has
it. The first step to this is to
ban the tests.
The chance is there, and it
is in the hands of the scientists.
Let the experts of East and
West, the men who devised
The Bomb, tell the world that
the tests can be stopped, and
the stopping of them effectively
checked.
“Any nation thaf defies the
scientists will stand condemned
before mankind. This is their
great chance. The log-jam
that has defied diplomacy can
be broken by the men who
share both the knowledge and
the authority to say: ‘Thus far
and no farther.’
“This is what people want:
not philosophy, not dreams, but
action. A first move of this
kind would not ban the bomb ;
but the bomb will never be
banned until a first move of
this kind has been made.”
Living with Danger
A rather more philosophic
approach to nuclear weapons
is made by Salvador de
Madariaga (in London “Time
and Tide”) in a comparison
between the way dogs learned
to survive “in the heroic years
of the motor-car, at the dawn
of this century,” and the adapt-
ability of human-beings not
only to enormous speeds on
land and in the air but also
to the constant threat of war.
This threat he describes as
a “plague in the margin of their
existence,” but it has not
prevented them from carrying
on business as usual —“work,
pleasure, leisure and all the
pursuits of peace.”
This capacity in mankind
still rules the attitude of most
people towards “the new, more
formidable dangers of the
nuclear era.” And as evidence
de Madariaga quotes the way
people take in their stride the
fact that the two biggest
Powers have come, to a stale-
mate in this field, reducing “the
danger to a marginal risk
roughly similar to that which
threatens any citizen who
ventures on a road, whether he
is sitting in a car* or dodging
it on foot.”
There seems no reason why
the magnitude of this new
marginal danger should “twist
the business in hand out of its
inherent shape,” any more than
in the days when matters of
world politics could be dis-
cussed “with quiet and serenity”
under the threat of less deva-
stating weapons.
He regrets, however, that
the effect of the discovery of
the H-bomb has produced a
different reaction in a rela-
tively small number of people.
Paradoxically, he suggests, the
originator of this movement
may have been Sir Winston
Churchill, “to whose stout
heart, indomitable will and
keen intellect the world owes
its salvation from Hitler.”
A report on the H-bomb, he
believes, induced Churchill “to
alter course and try to come to
terms with Moscow.” This
disastrous error has since
spread, and he quotes an article
from the London “Observer”
which urges the jettisoning of
Dr. Adenauer’s West Germany
by the West, “anguished by the
prospect of nuclear annihila-
tion,” as being the main means


of obtaining a global peace-
settlement with Russia.
This, says de Madariaga, is
manifestly wrong—to destroy
“the finest defence of Europe
against Moscow, namely Dr.
Adenauer, in order to achieve
a settlement with Russia which
by now any child of 10 in the
West should know to be quite
impossible: and all because
the West is ‘anguished by the
prospect of nuclear annihila-
tion’.”
■ No “anguish of the West”
has any effect on the possibility
of a peace-settlement with the
Soviet Union, he argues. “Mr.
Khrushchev is not anguished ac
all: and he- is a Leninist.” He.
knows, as all Leninists do, that
“the triumph of ‘Socialism’
over ‘Capitalist Imperialism’
can only come through war,
war understood as an uncom-
promising clashing of wills,
taking this or that form, in-
cluding if need be coexistence
and summit talks.” The under-
mining of Dr. Adenauer’s posi-
tion for the sake of such a
delusion is, he states, “sheer
folly.”
The West knows this per-
fectly well, despite the
“Observer’s” suggestion to the
contrary. Dean Acheson and
Macmillan had both recently
given lucid and vigorous state-
ments on the position, and Mr.
Mikoyan had removed any
doubts that might have
remained by his brutal frank-
ness in Bonn, when he said
that the Soviet Union does not
consider itself bound by the
Geneva agreements and other
summit talks, and that he knew
nothing about allowing the
East Germans a free vote.
“Reunification” of Ger-
many, writes de Madariaga,
“wi<!l not be discussed by the
big Powers since it must come
about only through a discus-
sion between the two German
States, i.e., the true and the
fake one wirepulled by the
Soviet Union.” But, he says,
“the anguished Westerners
continue to transmute their
anguish into ideas which bear
no relation whatever to the
requirements of reality.”
Thus, de Madariaga points
out, “we are invited to induce
the United States and the
Soviet Union to join hands and
save the world by preventing
anyone else from destroying it
through the use of an
H-bomb.” This means that to
relieve the fears of some
Westerners the U.S.A. would
endeavor to come to terms
with Russia, leaving to their
fate the hundreds of millions
of Eastern Europeans whose
“sullen, passive but determined
resistance” has given West-
erners freedom “to enjoy their
anguish.”
It further means, he writes,
that the disciplining of third-
nations would have to be done
by fear of the power of the
two big ones and “not through
respect for their authority,
since the Soviet Union has no
authority whatever.”
So the mere existence of
the H-bomb has caused such
havoc in certain sectors “that
the very basis of the defence
of the West is being sapped,
thereby making the danger
even greater”:
“Therefore, if the West is to
be saved, what is needed above
all is for the anguished
Westerners to shake-off their
anguish, to return to their
senses and to learn to live and
think along a bigger margin
of danger than we all used to,
so that the danger remains
where it belongs—in the
margin—and does not invade
our lives.”
Glaucoma:
The Sinister Halo
Glaucoma is a disease caused
by pressure of eye fluids on
the optic nerve . . . and leads
to blindness. But it does not
have to! A simple test spots
Glaucoma and if you treat it
soon enough, it can be checked,
as the author of this informa-
tive article in July Reader's
Digest proves from his own
experience.
Read July Reader’s Digest,
too, for the host of people,
places and incidents including
Introduction to Outer Space, The
last voyage of the “ Pamir”, What
keeps a husband faithful? and
Step Lively!
Take home July Reader’s
Digest today.
On sale wherever good books
are sold. 2/-.
French Anxieties
Commenting in “Yorkshire
Post” on the de Gaulle Govern-
ment, historian Sir Charles
Petrie tenders a warning on
the uncertainty of the regime.
“The immediate future of
France depends upon the men
behind de Gaulle and the
extent to which he can control
them,” he points out, adding
that, in his opinion, “too many
people are supporting de
Gaulle for diametrically
opposed reasons, quite apart
from the fact that history
proves that it is much easier
to get into a dictatorship than
to get out of one.”
Editorially the “Yorkshire
Post” notes that “many of the
Right-wing elements who
staged the revolt in Algeria on
May 13 are already exceedingly
restive”:
“The Algerian Committee of
Public Safety has issued a
declaration strongly opposing
General de Gaulle’s plan to
hold municipal elections in
Algeria before the holding of
the Constitutional referendum.
Such elections, they suggest,
London “Daily Express."
HAIL...
would be premature and
dangerous.
“More sinister is their out-
right demand for ‘the dis-
appearance of political parties
in France.’ This shows that the
extremists with Fascist ideas
are still pressing for the over-
throw of the party-political
system in France.
“Since leading members of
the French Parliament are close
colleagues of the General in the
new Government, there could
scarcely be a more striking
demonstration of the fact that
de Gaulle numbers among his
supporters men who are bound
to be at loggerheads with each
other.
“Everything will iow
depend,” the “Yorkshire Post”
adds, “on de Gaulle’s efforts to
keep the loyalty of the Army”:
“Even if some units were to
throw in their lot with the
dissidents -in Algeria, it is
difficult to believe that the
French Army as a whole would
raise the standard of rebellion
against a leader of de Gaulle’s
prestige and manifest patri-
otism.
“But the situation is anxious,
and may become more so. It
would be rash to try to predict
what the coming days will bring
for France. Her salvation may
come from the fact that the
reactionaries have shown their
hand so early. The folly dis-
played by the men of Algeria
should help to rally all the
moderate forces.”
America's
Responsibility
Examining the causes for
the uprush of feeling against
the U.S., with particular
reference to Vice-President
Nixon’s hostile reception in
Latin America, London
“Financial Times” comments
editorially that in the U.K.,
“where feeling is probably less
intense than it was a year ago,
there is a glum feeling that the
United States Administration is
quite ineffective”:
“For those who believe that
the Western Alliance zs
essential to the welfare of the
world this is a most regrettable
circumstance. Other countries,
including our own [Britain], are
in no position to pour scorn
on the United States, or even to
claim that they are showing
proper leadership in their own
sphere. Nevertheless, it is the
United States which actually
has the responsibility, and if
the Americans do not fulfil it
nobody else can.
“At present one must
emphasise the economic aspect
of this responsibility. The
world depends on a healthy and
strong level of American
demand. The recession was not
inevitable, and its continuation
is not inevitable. So long as it
continues, however, it damages
all the allies of the United
States, and is beginning to
convince nations of undecided
sympathies that the regular and
rapid economic expansion of
the Communist system cannot
be matched by the actual per-
formance of the United States.”
An additional repercussion
of the U.S. recession, the paper


CHATEAU TANUNDA
Stories of the Coastal Lights No. 19
Currie Harbour
The white-painted iron lighthouse at Currie, King Island, at
the western entrance to Bass Strait, was established in 1880.
It stands at the mouth of the only port on the island and is
half a mile from the centre of Currie, which is the island's
main township. The tower is 70 ft. high and the focal plane
of the light is 150 ft. above sea level.
The first light had a strength of 22,000 candle power and
was visible 17 miles in clear weather. The original wick
lamp was replaced in 1923 by a pressure kerosene burner
with an incandescent mantle. This was changed again in
1941, and now has a strength of 41,000 candle power, giving
it a visibility of 18 miles.
The light was originally attended by three keepers, but
after the 1941 change the staff was reduced to one man, who
now has charge not only of the Currie light, but also of King
Island's other two lighthouses, at Cape Wickham (established
in 1861) and at Stokes Point (established in 1951). The
dangerous nature of the King Island coasts and the heavy
shipping traffic through Bass Strait make these three lights
extremely important.
Although Currie’s lighthouse is known as the "Currie
Harbour Light," it was originally established and still serves
mainly as a coast light. However, it also serves as a harbour
entrance light for the small trading vessels using the port.
Currie was named after Captain Currie, who bought
the wreck and cargo of the emigrant ship Netherby, which
was lost in 1866 at a place subsequently called Point Netherby,
close to the northern headland of Currie Harbour. After the
wreck occurred, 450 survivors were cared for by the keepers ,
at Cape Wickham, (the only lighthouse on King Island at the
time), while the station's whale boat was sent to Melbourne
to fetch help.
The position of the Currie light is latitude 39° 57' south,
longitude 143° 61' east.
You can have confidence in the quality
of this pure grape brandy
CHATEAU TANUNDA
N.5.W. Agents
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
Distributors of fine spirits for 120 years
CLI9
adds, is that it has made
Americans concentrate on their
own troubles, with the result
that there is less prospect of
useful American economic
policies to maintain world
prosperity.
“So far, the United States
has been so preoccupied with
its own' recession as to forget
that the international con-
sequences are not less
significant than the domestic.
Vice-President Nixon’s recep-
tion may have shocked the
U.S. into a realisation that its
economic failures have helped
to produce real international
resentment.”
Soviet Economic
Challenge
London “News Chronicle”
comment on the Kremlin's
shift to economic warfare:
“In itself this is good news.
The whole world will benefit if
some of the resources now
devoted to arms are invested
in peaceful economic develop-
ment. There is no need to dis-
agree with Mr. Khrushchev
when he says that Soviet orders
...AND FAREWELL.
for Western equipment for the
Russian chemical industry will
be ‘mutually’ advantageous.
“What is disturbing is that
the democracies are not join-
ing in the competition with the
energy and verve that is re-
quired. It is not only Latin
America that is feeling the
pinch. In India the Five-Year
Plan has been drastically
pruned. There is not enough
money to finance the necessary
investment. The dollars have
not been forthcoming.
“It is not Britain who is
mainly at fault. For all the
failures of post-war British
Governments, sterling is still
doing far more than its share
to promote world trade;
“It is the failure of the
United States—and to a lesser
extent Western Germany—to
finance international commerce
on a scale proportionate to
their economic strength which
is doing the damage. Demo-
cracy is paying a heavy price
for this failure in the under-
developed nations.”
Various Voices
A dial Stevenson: “In the
United States the pressure for
higher tariffs and reduced
foreign aid bears little relation
to our position as the world’s
greatest creditor. The fact is
that the free-trading system
which we desire to live by, and
which for others is a condition
of survival, cannot function
unless steadily and consistently
we take up the creditor role
which, our predecessors in
Europe are putting down.”
* * * *
Prime Minister Macmillan :
“To vote Labor is like going
into a restaurant without first
looking at the price-list outside
the door. The menu reads
extremely attractively— at least
if you have that sort of taste.
But when you eat the food you
get a shock, and you get an
even bigger one when they
present the bill.”
• * * *
lain Macl e o d (Britain's
Minister of Labor): “On
September 19 last the [British]
Government started a final
decisive " attack on inflation.
How can we judge our success?
The answer is to be found
in the growing confidence at
home and abroad in the value
of our money. Merchants,
bankers and others abroad who
hold and use sterling on an
irhmense scale have shown their
confidence in the measures
which the Government have
taken. The result has been a
substantial increase in our gold
reserves.”
* * * *
U.S. Secretary of Defence Neil
McElroy: “Today American
and Soviet power may be about
in balance. But I’m terribly
concerned about ' tomorrow.
Really, there are only two
alternatives increased effort
on our part, or decreased
effort on the Soviet’s part.
Maybe the Soviet leaders will
decide they have to give more
to their own people, which will
mean less for heavy industry
and arms. But I doubt it very
much. If they don’t make this
decision, then we are going
to have to choose between
accepting a position of
dangerous inferiority, or pulling
in our belts and intensifying
our own effort.”


KttV mom SATE!
SANDERS
<»files
'
Correspondence. Invoices,
statements, etc., tiled in the
''Sanders'* can be securely
bound and converted into a
perfect book oi reference aX
the end of each month —0?
any other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agentt—
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
rtBTU
Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
Vardun Price Ltd.
Doeket Book Co. tAuaL)
Price* and fur*
tber Information
upon application
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL. situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A, FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Lower Court Justice
My experience of the lower
courts has been quite different
from that of W. E. Waterford
(B. 11/6/’5B).
Let us consider what quali-
fications are required in Vic-
toria for appointment as a
stipendiary magistrate. First,
he is required to pass six sub-
jects from the 21-subject LL.B.
course. These may be taken
over a couple of decades, and
no regard is paid to the fact
that repeated failures may have
demonstrated an intellectual
inadequacy.
Having obtained this mini-
mal academic qualification,
appointment, depends on
seniority the number of
sleepy years the proposed
appointee has spent as a Clerk
of Courts.. Often the appli-
cant has never been immedi-
ately concerned in any case
from the position of the liti-
gants, and it is extremely likely
that he has become a meticu-
lous person more concerned
with form and detail than with
principle.
I must agree that court pro-
cesses would not be accelerated
by the appointment of qualified
lawyers as magistrates unless
there was a systematic ration-
alisation of court work and a
few additional courts. While
a lot of time now spent on
irrelevant and often prejudicial
material might be saved, it
would probably be consumed
by a more thorough discussion
of the relevant material.
Obviously the standard of
magistrates under the Victorian
system varies considerably, and
there are many doing an excel-
lent job. Still, every practising
solicitor could cite cases where
injustice has resulted from the
inadequate training' of a magis-
trate. While the lower courts
have significant judicial powers
it is intolerable that they
should be staffed by people
who have not acquired a uni-
versity degree ; even where this
hurdle is retained to eliminate
the intellectually inadequate it
". .. and you'll have to stop bolting your food."
is desirable that the magistrate
should possess the personal
experience of a professional
lawyer.—MacD. (Vic.).
Reporters, like lawyers, have
a good opportunity of judging
how justice is administered ;
and as a reporter of more than
50 years’ experience I join
W. E. Waterford (B. 11/6/’5B)
in defending the work of police-
magistrates and stipendiary
magistrates.
I have sat in courts in many
parts of New South Wales and
have also covered city courts,
from Petty Sessions to the High
Court. With few exceptions I
have been favorably impressed
by the sense of duty, integrity
and knowledge of the law of
our magistrates.
Magistrates usually have a
greater worldly knowledge than
judges, or at least they admit
to it, and because of this their
decisions are often more in
harmony with commonsense.
Because of their closer contact
with the people generally,
magistrates are shrewder judges
of character than members of
the judiciary; and considering
the vast amount of work they
are called on to do and the
variety of offences which come
before them, astonishingly few
of their decisions are upset on
appeal.
Few judges will announce
their decisions immediately
after the close of a case; I
fancy they like time to chew
over the evidence and perhaps
consult authorities ; magistrates
almost invariably announce the
penalty immediately and then
go on to the next case. It is
astonishing that in such mass-
administration of justice they
make so- few mistakes. —Peter
Simple (N.S.W.).
Army Marksmen
One of the most puzzling
features of Army administra-
tion is the way in which funda-
mental principles of training are
rediscovered and hailed as
something new. The latest
example is the report of the
“trainfire” method of training
marksmen, supposed to have
been developed in the U.S.A.
One of the main factors in
stopping the German advance
into France, 1914, was the
ability of the men of the
British Regular Army to fire
aimed shots with a rapidity
unequalled at that time in the
world’s armies.
A man who helped to do it
gave me this explanation: “It
all boiled down to two things ;
beer was only a penny a pot in
our peace-time canteens and
there was extra pay for every
man who passed the marksman
test. Twice a week we shot
at targets which popped up
for a second and then dropped
out of sight again. If you
wanted extra money for beer
you had to hit them!”
When I became an Army
instructor in 1941 I found that
to advocate something not in
the training - manuals was
regarded as little short of
heresy. Troops were expected
to learn how to hit what they
aimdd at by doing every con-
ceivable thing with a rifle, pistol
or sub-machine-gun except
what really counted —fire it at
some counterpart of an active-
service target. “Shortage of
ammunition” was the excuse
given. It was true at one time,
but it still went on when we
had millions of rounds in
store.
Finally a senior officer who
had been through Greece and
Crete allowed me to give him
a demonstration something
for which I had hitherto asked
in vain—and thereafter I was
given a free hand with small
squads of men being trained for
special tasks.
These are the two main
things I taught; I learned them
by having to hit foxes or
dingoes which popped up
suddenly and raced away, and
by shooting for the pot when
a miss meant going hungry.
First, the knack of using a
rifle shotgun-fashion. Forget
that the weapon has sights.
Keeping both eyes open, look
over the top of the weapon and
“lead” ahead of the target if
it is moving. When the knack
is acquired the rifle seems to
jump to your shoulder and
fire of its own accord in about
a second. To gain proficiency,
up to 500 shots may have to be
fired, but it enables a man-
sized moving target to be hit


BALD PATCHES
Hair grown secret formula
Sacred Eastern Oils. Rarely
fails. Treats Alopecia. Leading
broadcaster’s liair grown after
years of Baldness. Effective
treatment for dandruff (Basic
cause of nearly all hair sick-
ness). and stops falling hair.
My herbal treatment restores
grey hair to original colour.
Not a dye—not injurious, not
obvious. Names given of lead-
ing .citizens (with 1 their per-
mission) who gratefully testify.
My treatment used in privacy
of your home.
For free advice write—
MRS. A. EASTON,
Box 5204, G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE
"I don't know what I'd like most —a T-bone steak or a bale of lucerne-hay."
at up to 100yds. nine times
out of ten.
Second, shooting at night.
Again the sights are ignored.
Along the side of the rifle a
broken line of white is painted,
a quarter of an inch wide. Aim
is taken by looking along the
side of the rifle with both
eyes open. The white line is
seen out of the corner of the
eye and it is necessary to “aim
off” to the right. After about
100 practice shots the average
man learned to hit a stump
which was barely visible in the
starlight 75yds. away.
Just as the English archer
learned by years of practice
how to draw, hold (aim) and
loose his arrow so as to hit a
man at four-score paces, so do
modern soldiers have to train
by shooting, shooting and
shooting again. Peace-time
“economy” in the use of
ammunition, with practice only
at stationary targets, explains
why it took 50,000 rounds to
kill each enemy in World
War 11, Malaya and Korea.
—Ex-R.S.M. (S.A.).
Golden Guineas
Although it would appear
that decimal coinage is not yet
for this country, isn’t it about
time the guinea was dropped?
Those who still cling to the
idea that doctors are the chief
beneficiaries from the retention
of this archaic habit will have
their ideas changed when they
go to buy a TV-set. Just why
a TV-set should be sold in
“guineas” when everything else
from clothes-hoists to wheel-
barrows is priced in plain
pounds is anybody’s guess.
Even cars, which cost any-
where from three to 10
times the price of a TV-set,
don’t graduate to the guinea
class. The diff. between £240
and 240 guineas—think of it!.
—is £l2—which is not bad
bunce for the retailer. — Dune
(N.S.W.).
Communism in China
Jas. Macansh (B. 23/4/’5B)
may be correct in predicting
that we have a sporting chance
of reaching a friendly relation-
ship with Communist Ghina ;
but if he is, his conclusion owes
nothing to his argument.
He says that, granted a
people is by nature antipathetic
to a particular system, their
“innate racial characteristics
which are at the root of tradi-
tional behavior, characteristics
which are unchangeable while
racial purity is maintained,”
will cause them to reject this
system.
Social psychologists have
convincingly demonstrated that
“racial” personality character-
istics are not innately deter-
mined at all, and that character-
traits supposedly common to
members of a given society are
largely a result of cultural
transmission, that is, of mem-
bers’ learning to behave, think
and feel in accordance with the
society’s expectations which
have become conventionalised.
Further, Macansh is grossly
mistaken in assuming that
“racial purity” is anything
more than a myth. Very early
in the world’s history there
were perhaps pure races, but
racial intermixture makes it
impossible to postulate their
existence today. Not one single
criterion can be selected which
provides a basis for clear dif-
ferentiation between so-called
races. There is overlapping on
every measurable characteristic.
In the light of these objec-
tions, I should like to modify
M.’s statement. It is obvious
that the Communist system
imposed on China has been
and will be modified by the
Chinese to suit peculiar Chinese
conditions, but modification
does not imply rejection of the
Communist system.
The nature of the product
ultimately distilled is, I suggest,
unpredictable, as is the
relationship which will exist
between the West and the final
product, simply because we are
ignorant of the nature of one
of the most important reagents
in the distillation ; namely,
Chinese national character, if
indeed, there be one. — Tube
(N.S.W.).
Fishy Business
There is great consternation
in the fishing communities of
Tasmania and Victoria over
the large quantity of canned
and other fish being imported
into Australia. Three Tas-
manian canneries are to close ;
two others have already done
so. In the Victorian fishing-
ports, increasing numbers of
men are giving the game
away and taking shore jobs
with promise of more regular
and profitable employment.
Who, or whaf, is to .blame?
For as long as I can remember
there have been complaints of
the high price of fish. I live
in a fishing-port (Queenscliff,
Victoria), and from what I can
see it is not the fishermen who
are reaping anything in the
way of a rich harvest from the
deep.
A few days ago I saw dis-
played in a Geelong fish-shop
Shetland-cod fillets, neatly
packed in wooden boxes,
wrapped in cellophane, and
priced at ss. a pound. That
fish had been transported
12,000 miles and was selling at
6d. a pound cheaper than local
“flake” (gummy-shark), caught
in Bass Straits. With shark
priced at ss. 6d., an estimate
can be formed of the price
asked for gars, whiting, and
other better-class table-fish. It
is to be hoped that, with the
closing of the Tasmanian
canneries, State Governments
concerned will ta(ce steps to
see where, exactly, the fault
lies. — Ceg (Vic.).
Traffic Control
I can agree only half-
heartedly with The Bulletin’s
approval of Alderman Jensen
for seeing that divided control
causes the traffic problems of
our cities (B. 11/6/’5B).
Putting all traffic under one
control, whether it is trying to
move (now under police-
control) or trying to park (now
under city-council control), will
wipe out some conflicting regu-
lations. But if Alderman Jensen
could now be sent back to
America he might observe the
second half of the story: any
policy that really handles large
traffic-volumes is controlled by
the sort of men who base their
recommendations on facts and
figures, who forecast future
demands and who can design
for conditions some years
ahead.
So long as Sydney’s traffic
and parking facilities continue
to be designed to meet last
year’s muddles and to be de-
layed so many more years in
construction we can expect
next year’s traffic to exceed
the capacity of roads, streets,
parking-space and so on.
A quicker solution than send-
ing abroad any more elected


but untrained representatives
would be to ask the opinions
of professional engineers here,
men who know how to use past
records to see trends and to
plan and build ahead of events.
We have few enough of these
specialists, without continuing
to waste and repress them. —
F. A. Edwards (N.S.W.).
Financing Our Olympic
Team
Somewhere about last
January the Empire Games
committee and officials and
committees of all sporting
bodies connected with sending
our team to the Games went
into a tail-spin. There was no
money—or, at any rate, not
enough money—to send the
various teams away. Then
followed two or three months
of frantic begging, scrounging
and what-have-you to try to
raise the cash.
. But for the generosity of a
well-known business concern
and an additional grant from
the Federal Government some
of our best athletes would have
been left behind; even as it
is, the Australian contingent is
not so big as it might have
been.
Why wait till the last minute
to start raising money for such
trips? There will be a team
of athletes, swimmers, etc.,
going to the Rome Olympic
Games in 1960 and it would
be a wonderful thing if the
Australian Olympic Games
officials could announce at the
end of 1959 that they had
sufficient money in hand to
send full teams away.
This could be done easily
if all sporting bodies through-
out Australia racing, golf,
bowls, football (in the various
codes), cricket, swimming and
other sports—would allot one
day during 1959 to raise money
in aid of the Olympic Games
Fund. What about trying it?
—A.E.H. (N.S.W.).
Immigration-—the U.S. and
Us
Those who, like Malcolm
Muggeridge, adversely com-
pare Austfalia’s few million
people with the 160-million-odd
of the U.S.A., and blame this
country’s immigration policy
(B. 4/6/’5B) ignore two vital
factors.
The first English settlements
along the Atlantic seaboard of
the present U.S.A. began in the
early 17th century. When the
colonies won independence a
period had elapsed approxi-
mately as long as that between
the establishment of British
settlement in Australia and
today. There were about four-
million people living in the new
U.S. when Sydney was founded.
When the great flow of immi-
grants from Europe began in
the mid-19th century the U.S.
already had over 20 million in-
habitants. It was able to absorb
the newcomers without eco-
nomic strain and without
lowering living-standards. '
Secondly, the U.S., east of
the Mississippi, was particularly
suitable for extensive settle-
ment by people with small
capital and simple equipment.
Before the advent of the rail-
ways the magnificent river-
system of the Mississippi and
its tributaries allowed trans-
port of bulky goods in quantity
to the very centre of the
country. Most of the area was
well timbered and through
much of it the soil was fertile
and easily worked. The. whole
area abounded in game, and
the rivers and coastal waters
teemed with fish. There was
infinite variety of edible nuts
and berries. Wild grapes grew
in profusion everywhere.
European fruit-trees, plants,
and animals throve.
Between the Mississippi and
the Rocky Mountains was the
vast prairie region with its
enormous herds of buffalo and
other game: an area admirably
‘suited for cattle- and sheep-
ranching, and, in parts —once
the appropriate machinery had
been invented—for large-scale
grain-growing.
Save in limited areas, Aus-
tralia lacked similar natural
advantages. Before the build-
ing of railways bullock-
haulage was the only means
whereby goods could be
brought from the interior to
the coast. Rainfall was too un-
certain in inland regions for
any large-scale primary produc-
tion other than grazing on
natural pastures until provision
had been made, for conserva-
tion of fater, which required
heavy capital-expenditure.
Until the development, by
Farrar and others, of special
wheats and the introduction of
“super.” grain - production
could not be safely expanded
outside the higher-rainfall areas.
Australia has also been handi-
capped by distance from
Europe—the main market for
her primary products and raw
materials. Until refrigeration
was developed in the late 19th
century many classes of pri-
mary produce could not be
exported.
Modern farming techniques
demand possession by the
farmer of both capital—for it
is based on the use of expen-
sive machinery—and skill in
management. This would rule-
out mass settlement on the land
in Australia, even if sufficient
satisfactory cheap land were
available. Expensive machinery
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 493
. \ Across
I—Professorial1 —Professorial responsibilities include remodelling of the
calf suite. (9)
s—Match5 —Match the garment on a goddess. (5)
B—Corporations8—Corporations ■ straddled by gold chains which don’t
boil? (7, 4)
10 — Supreme spinner. (3>
11 — Ruthlessly impose and collect some tax legislation after
retirement, \to be precise. (5)
12 — A deadly sin—a boy is after
plenty. (8)
14— Hamlet. (7)
15— Lover roared when disturbed. (6)
19 —Roll in by the portable
shelter. (6)
21 —I turned bad and appear
unwanted. (7)
25 —29-across sounds like such pro-
scribed fiction. (6, 8)
28 — Adored discolored commo-
tion. (3)
29 — Article of this color ties-up
Africans. (11)
30— The French take Great Britain
affirmative contributions to the
score. (3-4)
31— Disorderly red cat coming
bick to prepare for a mas-
querade. (5, 2>
Down
1 — He goes after the game in
flower. (6)
2 One of Mussolini’s citizens dist-
urbed by dictation. (9)
3 Poor fellow representing R
Federal electorate. (8)
4 An influential Japanese pig in
daylight. (6)
5 Called on Edward, being
informed that Violet is it. (7)
6 Fabric chair is meant to be
so. (5)
7 A secret agent infested by
snakes. (4)
9 —A place to put-up the scorching
electric light. (5)
13— Arid. (3)
16 — Editors who walk the Soviet
boards. (9)
17— Recede. (3)
18 — Raw but rum approval given to
the editor. (8)
20 —Barking which isn’t short
enough for prison. (4, 3)
22 — Accumulate weapons again
behind a thousand. (5)
23 — High-minded standards ruined
ladies. (6)
24 — Allows no waste pusses to be
distorted. (4, 2)
26 — In company with many a fross-
breed. (5)
27 — A score in the wrestling
season. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 492


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed'
£235,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
• WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Established 1808
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSON &
qSULUVAM
Ttfii gA\^>
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
"JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
is also a requisite of modern
secondary industry. Substantial
capital must therefore be
forthcoming for the establish-
ment of new industries and
extension of old, and for the
building of homes for their
workers. Australia has taken,
in the postwar years, as many
new settlers as can be con-
veniently absorbed.
For this country to have
maintained in the last decade
an intake of new settlers
greater proportionally than the
U.S. achieved over any equiva-
lent period is something to be
proud of. — Denton Aitchison
(N.S.W.).
Aluminium Prices
The cuts in production of
aluminium ingot (B. 9/4/’5B)
proved insufficient without
price - reduction for the
industry’s economic stability.
From the first week in April
all producing countries except-
ing France and Switzerland
offered ingot at reduced rates.
Converted to sterling, U.K.
cut £l7 to . £lBO per ton;
“She's the hostess with the mostest in the bank's new
hire-purchase salon."
U.S.A. £l6 to £2OB 17s. 6d.;
Canada £l7 12s. 6d. to
£lB5 17s. 6d.; Central Europe
averaging £l4 10s. to £217 10s.
Announcing the reduction,
Aluminium, Ltd., of Canada,
introduced a new note. They
said their action in reducing
ths price was to encourage and
stimulate the consumption of
of metal rather than to meet
Russian competition.
This is the first reference to
Russia in her “trade and aid”
policy entering the alumin-
ium field as a world competitor.
A joint statement issued by
Senator Spooner and Tas-
manian Premier Cosgrove
declared the intention of seek-
ing overseas capital to expand
Bell Bay. The Senator thought
that might take a little time.
The Senator has always been
optimistic in regard to any
industrial development with
more than parochial problems.
—Old Opencut (S.A.).
Speech Affection
Good luck to the N. S. Wales
Education Department, which
is giving a tilt to its hat with
a few showings of intellectual
courage. “Natural” speech is
to be encouraged in the schools,
and the social-climbing speech-
affectations of an England pre-
occupied with its U and non-
U stratifications are to be left
for those who want them.
Let’s hope the A.B.C. will
fake its cue from the Education
Department and evict the
remnants of its news-readers,
whose affected diction wouldn’t
get past the door of a com-
mercial station. Acolyte
(N.S.W.).
Regimentation in the
Suburbs
’l’ve long held that youth
is over-regimented. The ten-
dency is not really pew—look
at the Spartans—but I think
the modern mania for organis-
ing youngsters began with the
Nazis ; or perhaps it was the
Communists. In any case, all
shades' 1 of political opinion,
and all sorts of well-meaning
people, now go hallooing down
the same blind alley. No
doubt city life, with its stan-
dardised work and standardised
pleasures, has much to answer
for ...
My opinion was reinforced
when I came to live near a
camp where ideals of Christian
manhood are blasted into boys
from the suburbs through a
public-address system. They
come up from Sydney by
train, out here from the station
by bus, and the sylvan peace
of the weekend is shattered
by exhortations of the rally-
round-chaps kind. If they’re
not having kit-inspections,
with heavy emphasis on com-
petitive- and team-spirit—
“ Buck-up, Rose Bay. Only
two points to catch-up with
Dulwich Hill! ” bellows the
p.-a. system —or church-
parades, or straight-from-the-
shoulder talks, someone is
organising games.
To be fair, they do go for
walks through the bush, and
this must be nice for city kids,
as must be the sensation of
camping out, the spaciousness,
and the campfires at night;
and, no doubt, in season they
swim. But my dominant
impression is of a good thing
spoilt: that, in an environment
where boys should be free as
rabbits, they are being fitted
into the mould of little
Babbits. Compared to the
daily life of most country boys
the whole adventure seems
rather pathetic, even without
the cheer-leader atmosphere.
Christian ideals are all very
well, in due proportion and
season, and so is a measure of
discipline. But an excess of
any diet can have strange
consequences. Boyhood is a
time for learning, but it is
also a time for play.— Roger
(N.S.W.).


ROYAL JELLY
Direct from the bees. One month’s
supply >n capsules £5/5/- airmail
post free; free leaflet.
REX PEACOCK,
Apiarist, 21 Carbine Street.
KERANG, VICTORIA.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE LANE
"DON'T WORRY I T SENDING [?] TO
G RAZ COS"
Public Relations
“Hank”: The leaders of
several primary industries
could well check their methods
of approaching the public. In
contrast to the makers of syn-
thetics who stress the good
points of their products, some
primary industries antagonise
many of their customers by
regular references to the fact
that they are selling at below
the cost of production ; that
they need subsidies ; and that
retailers are to blame for high
prices.
Such tactics make few
friends. In fact, some cus-
tomers are so tired of hear-
ing hard-luck stories from
producers that they are tempted
to ask, “If you can’t make
money out of the industry, why
don’t you try something else?”
As the Americans have
already discovered, the best
way to beat margarine and
synthetic fibres is to tell people
how good are butter and wool.
If a food costs customers more
than it used to, tell them what
Tetanus occurs in all
animals. Sheep and
goats are more sus-
ceptible than cattle.
The disease is caused
by an organism found-
in all soils and
especially in manure.
Lambs that are
marked and tailed by
Elastrator can be
expected to enjoy a
high degree of protec-,
tion against tetanus.
The constriction by
the rubber of the
ring causes no wounds
and tetanus infection
is usually the result
of wounds coming
into-contact with con-
taminated dust, soil
or manure.
a good deal they are getting for
their money.
Meat, milk-, eggs, honey
and other natural products
have such advantages and
possibilities that their promo-
tion should be easy—so long
as it is not handicapped by
those hard-luck tales.
The woolgrowing industry
is doing a great promotion job
successfully. The others can
do just as well if they adopt
a businesslike approach and
shun resolutions .like the one
at the recent Victorian dairy-
farmers’ convention which sug-
gested that “in view of the
fact that the price of milk is
below the cost of production,
we protest against the Novem-
ber levy for promotion-funds”
—or words to that effect.
Lungworm Cure
“Joe”: I see that 1.C.1. in
England have discovered a
cure for lungworms in sheep
and cattle. It is now in Aus-
tralia, marketed under the
trade-name “Dictycide,” and it
is a stabilised form of cyana-
cethydrazide. The drug is
injected under the skin.
The compound is available
only to vets, so far, but it
will be released to land-men
for direct use when more is
known about it.
Cyanacethydrazine was first
tested overseas as a possible
treatment for tuberculosis in
humans, but was later shelved
in favor of more efficient
drugs. But during t.b. experi-
ments with pigs it was found
that the drug acted as an
anaesthetic, causing lungworms
to loosen their hold' on lung-
tissue. They were then coughed
up, swallowed, and passed out
alive, but, on reaching the
ground, they soon died.
This reaction eliminates the
possibility of complications
caused by dead worms in the
bronchial tubes.
Export Veal
“Jay”: There seems to be
a limited market for veal car-
casses in the Middle East, and
cuts are being sold in some
Pacific islands. Not much veal
is going to the U.K., as the
price there is low.
C. R. Mulhearn, Queens-
land Director of Veterinary
Services, says he noticed a
greater interest of meatworks’
buyers in vealers during a
recent trip in South-west
Queensland. Two properties
in the Upper Warrego sold
cows and calves in fairly good
condition to meatworks. The
cows would be slaughtered as
tinners, the calves as vealers,
dressing-out from 801 b. to
15.01 b.
Pasture
“Chuck”: Pastoralists who
have successfully negotiated
the initial “sub.-and-super.”
phase of pasture-improvement
are ready for the next move.
More efficient management
of improved pastures has tre-
mendous possibilities the
C.5.1.R.0. has found that only
about 20 per cent, of pastures
are being converted into wool
and meat.
The rest is being lost through
trampling, blowing and other
causes. About 6 "per cent, is
eaten by insects instead of by
sheep and cattle. In view of
the high percentage lost by
soilage, progressive graziers
would do well to investigate
thoroughly the virtues of
cutting the greenstuff and feed-
ing it to stock in well-paved,
well-drained feed-lots.
It means much more labor,
admittedly, but mod e r n
mechanisation is more than
half the battle. Feed-lot feed-
ing has the added advantage
of ensuring that greenstuff is
wilted enough to prevent
bloating when fed to stock.
Another thing in its favor
is the owner’s better chances
of adjusting rations to guaran-
tee the best balance to reduce
the danger of nutritive diseases,
and to provide the most
efficient 'weight-gains.
Post-drivers
“Boda”: “Joaquin’s” infor-
mation on the “post-driver”
(B. 30/4/’5B) reminds me that
one such machine has been
in operation on a nearby
property (Gooinbi district,
Western Darling Downs, Q.)
for some years.
This machine, hydraulically
operated and pulled by a
tractor, can drive strainer-posts
into hard brigalow soil. It
is -not necessary to point the
posts. As one who has put-up
fences for a living, I consider
three posts to the chain a darn
poor fence. Here, where iron-
bark is plentiful, six posts to
the chain is not uncommon.
Out here it doesn’t matter
how deep you plant posts;
they always rot at ground-
level, the wood below remain-
ing solid for years. As for
number-eight wire, that went
out years ago. Ten-gauge iron
wire and 12j-gauge steel hi-
tensile have been standard here
for at least 30 years.
Johnson-grass
“Myall”: Where did “Wilco”
(B. 11/6/ ’5B) get the idea that
Johnson-grass is a millet —and
Arabian millet at that? Fifty
years ago it was erroneously
named evergreen millet, but it
is a true sorghum, botanically
known as Sorghum holepense,
while its cousin, Sudan-grass,
is S. Sudanese.
Johnson-grass is a native of
Turkey and the countries


start the dau riahtl
: : S
OUO'^G
F*
eHO6«
Itsse
bordering the eastern Medi-
terranean Sea, and was called
Johnson-grass after the man
who introduced it into
Alabama, U.S.A.
Sudan-grass is a native of
the Sudan in Northern Africa,
hence its common name. It
was introduced into Australia
in 1913, and is now grown over
the entire continent.
“Wilco” also errs when he
states that Johnson-grass is
very toxic. Like all sorghums,
Sudan included, it contains
some prussic acid during the
young stages of growth, but
this rapidly turns to sugar as
the plant matures. When the
flower-heads appear it may be
safely fed to stock. In many
districts, particularly on
Queensland’s Darling Downs,
Sudan is grazed when only
12in. high. Johnson only
occurs in small patches, and so
far no stock-losses have been
reported from either grass.
The seed of both plants is
very similar, but that of John-
son is slightly smaller than
Sudan, and is darker. The sale
of seed of Johnson is now pro-
hibited in Queensland, as it is
a great pest in cultivations, its
underground rhizomes making
it almost impossible to eradi-
cate.
Growers should see that
they purchase only pure
Sudan seed that has not been
hybridised with other sorg-
hums, as this is dangerous.
Two sound maxims with regard
to Sudan are: Don’t allow
animals to feed on plants that
are immature or stunted
through drought, and don’t
turn hungry animals into the
crop.
Both Sudan and Johnson
make a very good—and safe
—hay.
Overdrilling be
Blowed!
I was surprised to find a
“Man on the Land” contribu-
tor apparently falling for New
Zealand’s “overdrilling.”
Although the Kiwis have
been modestly admitting for
years that they know more
about pasture - establishment
than anyone in the world, Aus-
tralian scientists have caught-up
and passed them in developing
and promoting new ideas in
pasture-establishment.
“Overdrilling” is the New
Zealand name for sod-seeding.
They do it with an Australian
sod-seeder and they are follow-
ing Australian practice, but
they seem reluctant to admit it.
They’re just discovering what
a number of people have known
for years, that you don’t have
to plough a stubble to plant
another crop in it. Mervyn
Cross’s experiment at Massey
indicates, on the contrary, that
you may get a 50 per cent,
better crop of grazing-oats if
you sod-seed direct into a
summer crop-stubble rather
than plough it up and prepare
a seed-bed.
As for sod-seeding cereals
into pasture (somebody called
my sod-seeded pastures double-
decker pastures this morning),
you can read all about it in
Croft’s report of sod-seeding
oats at Badgery Creek a
booklet available from the
Sydney University which every
milk-zone dairyfarmer should
read.
We’ve been sod-seeding oats
and rye-corn with reasonable
success for four years at Cots-
wold Farm (Vic.) and condi-
tions couldn’t be much more
adverse, since our paddocks
are so steep.
The credit for the practical
development of sod-seeding
which is a much better name
than “ovedrilling” anyhow,
goes to Jim Breakwell, Frank
Crofts, and associates of
Sydney'University, not forget-
ting Harold Pittman, of Vic-
toria, whose early work
prompted the development of
the sod-seeder in the first place.
K. G. SCHOEFFEL.
Mechanisation
“Habsiw”: Australian
engineers can take full credit
for pioneering the mechanisa-
tion of at least two crops—flax
and rice which have been
grown by hand for centuries
in some countries.
During the last war Aus-
tralia amazed the world by the
ease with which it grew and
harvested heavy tonnages of
flax almost completely by
machinery. Although flax had
been sown through a drill
before, the traditional way of
harvesting had always been by
hand.
Hand - pulling admittedly
gives greater length of fibre
and freedom from weeds, but
it cannot compete with
machinery.
Within 15 hours’ flying-time
from the Murrumbidgee Irri-
gation Area, and even closer
to Humpty Doo, Indonesians
still sow rice in seed-beds and
transplant the seedlings by
hand. Harvesting and winnow-
ing are also done by hand.
Admittedly some of this
handwork is inescapable where
the cereal is grown on narrow
terraces, but the method is
very primitive when compared
to the work of Australia’s big
headers, which harvest up to
50 tons of grain a day.
Citrus
“Dune”: It’s time to get
busy with lime-sulphur spray
on citrus-trees which are show-
ing signs of white,-louse scale.
This scale, which appears as
a white scurfy growth on the
trunk and larger limbs, will,
if allowed to persist, sap the
vitality of the tree.
A mixture of 1 pint of lime-
sulphur to 12 pints of water
sprayed over the affected parts
should prove effective. June,
July and August are the only
months when this treatment
should be applied for Valencias;
with Navels, spraying should
be done as soon as picking is
completed. Spraying during
these three months will also
get rid of any lichens which
have developed on the trees.
Rose-growers who are
worried with white louse and
lichens will find lime-sulphur
in the above proportions an
invaluable spray if used during
the dormant period. Never mix
lime-sulphur with spraying-oils,
nor apply it shortly before or
after an application of oil.
Tropical Pastures
‘'Ferdinand”: Trials by the
Queensland Department of
Agriculture indicate that a lot
of chiller beef could roll-off
forested land f on Queensland’s
tropical coast.
, Cleared and sown to proved
tropical-pasture mixtures, much
forest country in the north
could carry a steer to \\ to 2
acres. At this rate, the northern
coast of Queensland would be
capable of turning-off at least
20,000 chillers a year.
Pastures of Guinea- and
para-grass, together with the
legume centro, are showing
promise for fattening steers. A
recent trial at the Bureau of
Tropical Agriculture, South
Johnstone, has clearly demon-
strated the value of this pasture-
mixture.
In 1957 a group of 40 steers,
aged about 14 months, were
brought from the Mt. Garnet
district and put on sown
tropical pasture. Killed 13
months later, the best 20
dressed at 5721 b., and the
grading report showed that 77.5
per cent, were chillers and the
rest first-grade.
The traditional method of
marketing in the north is to
send down medium to heavy
bullocks, four or five years old,
and some a good deal older.
But when yearlings are put on
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(19/ 6/’5B)
Rainfall-'should be patchy in Queensland during July,
although good rains are indicated on the coast from Mary-
borough southwards, with light to moderate rain on the
Darling Downs and Maranoa. Apart from moderate rains in
southern Queensland during September, rainfall should be
patchy during spring.
Moderate to good general rains are indicated in N.S.W.
during July, heaviest in the southern divisions and part
of the central coast. Apart from southern and part of the
central divisions, rainfall should be patchy during spring.
Fairly heavy general rains are indicated in Victoria
during July, with possible severe flooding in the Wimmera,
northern division, Latrobe Valley and Upper Yarra. Quite
a good season should follow in the southern half of Victoria
for the balance of the year.
South Australia should receive good rains during July,
although rainfall may be poor in the interior. Good rains
are indicated in the agricultural areas until October.
Moderate rain below average should occur in the south-
west of Western Australia during July, but rainfall should
be above normal in the Gascoyne and north-west areas.
Poor rainfall for the rest of W.A.
LENNOX WALKER.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; £ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British, Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
improved pastures they con-
tinue to gain weight all the year
round, and can be turned-off
under 2\ years old.
The demand, both here and
overseas, is for a young, light-
weight, chiller-type carcass. To
produce this type of carcass the
animal must be kept growing
all its life. In the northern
breeding-areas, with their dry
winter and spring, this can
only be done with supple-
mentary-feeding, which, for the
time being, anyway, isn’t
economic.
The trials at the Bureau of
Tropical Agriculture indicate
that the best solution would be
for breeders to sell young store
steers to fatteners using high
stocking-rates on good tropical
pastures.
New Bean Varieties
“J.K.H.”: After six years of
plant - breeding, research-
workers at the Redlands Horti-
cultural Experiment Station,
just south of Brisbane, have
developed two new varieties of
French beans, seeds of which
will very- shortly be available
to growers.
One, Redlands Beauty, is
a cross between a navy bean
(California Small White) and
the popular Brown Beauty. The
former is very rust-resistant,
while the productivity and
quality of the Brown Beauty
are well known.
The second variety, Redlands
Belle, is the result of crossing
Florida Belle, a rust-resistant
and stringless bean, with Lang—
shaw Beauty.
The rust-resisting qualities of
the two new varieties have been
proved in field trials, and the
seed-release should show if they
are good commercial kinds
when grown under market-
garden conditions.
Experiments are also being
made at the station to produce
a real stringless bean. These
were begun some years ago,
and the officers expect to have
an absolutely stringless bean of
excellent quality and. high pro-
ductivity on the market by
1961.
A Costly Pot-plant
“Bilwon”: A pot-plant care-
lessly thrown out in a paddock
many years ago has covered
over 60,000 acres of valuable
Queensland grazing-country.
The plant is Harrasia cactus,
and although arsenic-pentoxide
will destroy the leaves it won’t
kill-out the extensive netlike
root-system.
The Queensland Government
has earmarked £20,000 to start
destroying the cactus. Experts
estimate it may take £2O million
to get rid of it altogether.
So far, no insect such as
Cactoblastis has been found
that will dine off Harrasia.
Dip at Spring Creek
“Steve”: New facilities for
treating cattle coming into
Queensland from the Northern
Territory and moving south
from the Gulf country are to
be built near Mt. Isa.
The Queensland Department
of Agriculture has accepted
tenders for a cattle-dip and
yards at Spring Creek, and the
work should be finished in a
few weeks.
Anything that helps in the
flow of store-c-attle from
North Queensland and the
Northern Territory to southern
holdings is important more
important, perhaps, now than
it ever has been. The new
dip and yards will do that,
Cattle coming from ticky
country must, of course, be
clean before moving into tick-
free areas.
YEOMANS AND KEYLINE
Concluding the review, by John Fountain, of P. A.
Yeomans’s new book on his Key line system of fanning.
T>Y and large the book falls
" into a pattern: the first part
concerned with the funda-
mentals, of Keyline ; the second
part an extension of the dis-
cussion from the practical
angle, with some more general
chapters; the third part deal-
ing almost entirely with tech-
niques.
In the chapter on' fertilisers
Yeomans gives a balanced
account of the history of arti-
ficial fertilisers in Australia, the
importance of superphosphate
in opening-up new areas of
production, and the somewhat
similar results following the
use of trace-elements. He also
mentions abuses, and makes
the point that whereas the arti-
ficial-fertiliser industry is big
business, advocates of organic-
farming are mostly small men.
And, the .world being as it is,
the voice of the former is more
likely to be heard. He then
gives details of his own experi-
ments with superphosphate
which indicated that heavy
applications of super, inhibited
the earthworm population, and
made grass less, palatable to
stock (in both cases the com-
parison was with a paddock
lightly dressed with super.)
after the third year.
Another experiment was a
comparison of two paddocks,
one with super, the other with-
out. Results showed:
One, that my own soil can be
developed by Keyline methods
without superphosphates,'and two,
that then it. takes longer. The
conclusion is that where super-
phosphate is effective in an ortho-
dox manner on certain soil, then
Keyline methods are much faster
if an initial application of the
artificial is used. Further, in good
seasons soil-development in Key-
line proceeds very satisfactorily
with a lewt. initial application, but
if the season is dry and no climax
development takes place in the soil
after the first application, then a
second application is an appreci-
able advantage. Many other
experiments of our own tend to-
confirm the belief that super-
phosphate is much more valuable
when used in Keyline methods to
directly improve the soil by pro-
viding the initial “kick” for the
rapid development of the pasture
root-system, which then is the real
basis for soil- and pasture-
development, than it is when used
simply to stimulate pasture-growth.
There is quite a lot of evidence
then that superphosphate is much
more valuable to the poorer agri-
cultural land than even the present
methods of use indicate.
Yeomans goes on to say
that he has talked with a group
of men who have had approxi-
mately 30 years’ experience
with superphosphate. “They
all had a similar story to tell,
a story of outstanding import-
ance that deserves to be told
again and again in every news-
paper and periodical that caters
for the landman.”
The story was of rapid
improvement for some years
(varying in each case), then
deterioration. He gives another
example, this time of heavily
fertilised, irrigated pasture:
On this area carrying-capacity
ranged from nine sheep per acre
in the winter to 33 per acre in
the summer, with an average of
17 sheep per acre all the year
round. Immediately lambs were
born on the pasture both the lambs
and their mothers were moved to
dry, undeveloped land. Older sheep
were then placed on the pasture
paddock. But no lamb could be
raised on this wonderful irrigated
pasture; it seemed that they just
died.
Elsewhere Yeomans has
something to say about floqd-
control, and such projects as
the Glenbawn Dam:
Many such dams as Glenbawn
would be needed to affect a really
big Hunter River flood. But if
£l5 million, as spent at Glenbawn,
was made available as loan-money
to the farmers and graziers for
the development of their properties
in the Hunter Valley, not only
would the present shocking waste
of water cease but a lot of other
wonderful changes would follow.
The real problem is not £1
million of flood-damage, but
the millions of pounds repre-
sented in wasted water. And
the solution is not big dams,
but a numbeer of farm-dams
—tne cost of which, Yeomans
points-out, farmers would be
happy to pay back.
Yeomans tells something of
his ideas in forming the Key-
line Foundation:— ,
I considered the Keyline develop-
ment of land something too big


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
“HEY!"
and important for me to tie it
to any commercial enterprise and
decided to discuss its future
development with men of sufficient
stature to judge of its importance
and work out its future. This f
did....
They agreed that the Keyline
Plan was of sufficient importance
for us to make an effort to teach
it widely, to apply it to farms,
and eventually to have it accepted
as pail of national agricultural
policy....Ft was to be a research
foundation, but, as the founders
considered that the merits of Key-
line had already been proved in
my own work, they would also do
something that was immediately
practical and organise a Keyline
service to farmers and graziers.
These matters were embodied in
the constitution and application
was made to the proper authorities
for the taxation considerations that
apply ter gifts of money allowed
research organisations.
. The application was
knocked-back. And that, in
effect, killed the Keyline
Foundation, although a major-
ity of the original trustees —-
Sir C Stanton Hicks, D. R.
McC aughey, C. R. McKerihan,
Professor J. R. A. McMillan,
John Darling (and, naturally,
Mr. and Mrs. Yeomans) —
elected to carry on, I take it,
as an advisory body. The
knock-back killed, at any rate,
the far-reaching plans and the
possibility of large donations.
It also, in my opinion, killed
the publicity, if not outright,
at least by degrees. First, parts
of the apparatus of publicity,
the magazine and news-releases
to papers, were discontinued.
But there was also less inclina-
tion on the part of newspapers
to feature Keyline stories. Up
till then Keyline had an excel-
lent press. But it was one thing
to give publicity to a research,
or educational, organisation,-
and quite another thing to give
space to a commercial con-
cern. Also, strictly speaking,
the news-value of Keyline had
been exhausted.
It must have been a very
severe disappointment the
more so when it became evident
that permission might have been
given had certain formalities
been observed. Yeomans, in
this chapter, gives the impres-
sion that he was aware of this
at the time, but was not willing
to hand over control to an
“approved” organisation, such
as a university. He also says
that he offered to give-up his
agricultural-equipment if that
was the snag, but was told it
wasn’t. It was, as he puts it:
“Simply the narrow interpre-
tation of the word ‘research’
(strangely interpreted by taxa-
tion authorities).”
It must also have been expen-
sive, because the Yeomans
family had made a substantial
donation to the foundation,
pending the expected favor-
able ruling by the Taxation
Department, when other dona-
tions could be accepted, and
the foundation’s running-
expenses came from this sum.
Yeomans was then left with
the alternative of giving-up, or
using his commercial organisa-
tion to implement Keyline, on
a commercial basis. This is
what he has done.
In the same chapter, Yeo-
mans mentions his connection
with the Graham plough, which
he has used in Keylining, and
which has given rise to the
rumors that Keyline itself was,
so to speak, the off-shoot of
the Graham plough. He firmly
states that this chisel-plough,
when he started to manufacture
it under licence in Australia,
was the first of its kind here,
and that: —•
There are now 15 followers of
this Keyline implement and eventu-
ally some of these manufacturers
made very good chisel-ploughs.
The result now is that the best
of the Australian chisel-ploughs
are superior, in my opinion, to
those employed in other countries.
But, so far as I remember,
he has never claimed that a
Graham plough is essential in
Keyline.
I met Yeomans soon after
I reviewed his book, The Key-
line Plan, for The Bulletin. I
mentioned photographs of lush
pasture in the bdbk as
being impressive, adding
something about it being diffi-
cult to judge these things with-
out seeing for oneself. A con-
venient let-out. Yeomans rang
me and invited me to come and
see for myself. I arranged to
meet him at his office in Eliza-
beth Street, and go up with him
and Mrs. Yeomans to Neval-
lan. I found a blue-eyed,
sandy-haired man with a deter-
mined jaw sitting in an office
littered with bits of machinery,
frowning over a piece of rock.
He explained its significance to
me —which I now forget—and
talked a bit about country
towns we both knew. Then
Mrs. Yeomans arrived and we
drove to Richmond.
I have seen a fair deal of his
North Richmond properties,
Nevallan and Yobarnie, over
the years, and can only say
that I am very impressed. I
have been on his Orange pro-
perty once, in very dry weather,
and could see a contrast
between a part of the property
covered with biddy-bush, and
other parts where good pasture,
although in need of drink, was
surviving. All the property, I
was told, had looked like the
first part a year or so before.
There, too, I saw a spectacular
system of dams in the making.
I haven’t seen his Bathurst
property, or the one at Camp-
belitown.
I think Yeomans has been
over-combative at times, and
I have noticed at field-days
that he won't always give a
simple answer to a simple ques-
tion. He is hard to pin-down
on costs —possibly because he
regards his properties primarily
as experiment-stations, possibly
because he’s used to keeping
hi s business to himself —
although I notice that in some
chapters of The Challenge of
Landscape he is rather more
communicative in this respect.
I don’t think he would readily
admit a mistake. On the other
hand, he is the sort of man
who will get up in the middle
of a winter’s night to observe
the grazing habits of animals —
why do they favor that part of
the paddock, why did that cow
get up and walk over there —
and he has a readiness to back
his judgment, with time, energy
and money, that compels
admiration.
In short, he is an extra-
ordinary man with a dominant
idea, and the ordinary man’s
quota of shortcomings. And
he has written an extraordinary
book.


Women’s Letters
MEL BO URNE
The Governor of Victoria (Sir Dallas
Brooks), as King Henry VIII, and Lady
Brooks as Katherine of Aragon, made a
most impressive entry into the St. Kilda
Palais when they attended the National
Theatre Costume Ball. The vice-regal
couple were attended by Henry’s other
wives, all beautifully costumed and im-
personated by Mrs. Clive Coogan, Mrs.
John Buckland, Mrs. W. Littlejohn, Mrs.
Peter Cooper and Miss Flavia Spalazzi.
Colonel Spraggett was court chamberlain,
the Governor’s A.D.C.s, Lieutenants
John Groves and Christopher Chamber-
Jen, were gentleman-at-arms, Lieutenant-
Commander Peter Cooper court jester,
and Dr. Clive Coogan and Flight-
Lieutenant John Buckland court gentle-
man. When Henry VIII gave his royal
consent dancing began, and the greatest
variety of costumes ever seen in Mel-
bourne came into view. An Arabian
Nights group won first prize for a group ;
second prize was given to an appropri-
ately dressed “chain-gang.” President of
the National Theatre Sir Robert Knox
was an imposing Chinese mandarin and
Lady Knox was his “lady.” The Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs.
F. W. Thomas) were present in the official
party, Mrs. Thomas looking most attrac-
tive in an off-shoulder gown of white
delustred-satin, featuring a crinoline skirt
and embroidered with iridescent beads.
Also in the official party were Miss Ger-
trude Johnson, director of the National
Theatre (dressed as the Countess from
“The Marriage of Figaro”), Mr. and
Mrs. A. T. Smithers (he dressed as Mr.
Pickwick, she as Carmen). Evie Hayes,
who was one of the judges for the best
costumes, wore her original costume from
“Annie Get Your Gun”; Lady Tait was
a Spanish Lady in white lace. Others in
the official party were Cr. and Mrs.
Bernard Evans; Sir Arthur and Lady
Warner ; and Mr. Peter Howson, M.H.R.,
and Mrs. Howson.
☆ ☆ ☆
There was inter-State interest in
the marriage of Sally Virginia Donelan
and Richard John Dwyer, which was
celebrated with Nuptial Mass at St.
Patrick’s Cathedral. The bride is the
second daughter of Mr. and Mrs. H. R.
Donelan, of East Bullenbong, The Rock
(N.S.W.), and the bridegroom is the only
son of Mr. and Mrs. T. B. Dwyer, of
Roseville, Sydney. A graceful gown of
white delustred satin was worn by the
bride, and it was allied to French lace.
The tulle veil was held by a coronet of
French-velvet petals, and she carried a
bouquet of gardenias and lily-of-the-
valley. Sister of the bride, Mrs. Tom
Lobban, of Wagga, was matron-of-honor,
and Geraldine Dwyer and Suzanne
Donelan were bridesmaids. Graham
Crowe, of Yass, was best man and the
groomsmen were Geoff Francis, of
Wagga, and Chris Donelan, of The Rock.
After the ceremony the bride’s parents
rf SUeS ' S at 3 rece t ,tion at the
INew A,CXanClra '
Margaret Mary. Collins, educated
at Mandeville Hall and now shipping-
adviser at the Victorian Tourist Bureau,
is the youngest daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. P. F. Collins, of Camberwell, and
is president of the St. Vincent’s Hospital
Younger Set. Laurence Hodgkinson is
vice-president, and together they head the
Younger Set now planning a Harlequin
Ball, which will be held at the St. Kilda
Palais on July 14. Tickets are
£2 10s. a double and may be obtained
from Diana Lord (BX5024) and Janice
Page (JA0221).
The Comedy Theatre was en fete for
the premiere of Noel Coward’s “Nude
with Violin,” which stars Robert Help-
mann. In the crowded foyers were seen
many lovely gowns, most of them short,
dazzling theatre-coats and luxurious fur
coats. The Governor (Sir Dallas Brooks)
was present with Lady Brooks, she wear-
ing a black velvet frock contrasted with
white Arctic-fox furs. They were accom-
panied by Lieut. John Groves and his
fiancee, Flavia Spalazzi. The Prime
Minister and Dame Pattie Menzies were
also in the audience. Sir Frank and
Lady Tait sat with the Governor and
Lady Brooks, Lady Tait choosing a black
frock and emerald-green silk taffeta for
her contrasting stole. Mrs. Norman
Sheppard covered her black lace gown
with a mink coat and sat in a box with
Mr. and Mrs. Ross Shelmerdine (her
shrimp-pink satin theatre-coat was a
brilliant spot of color). Mrs. Graham
Nathan also wore a glowing pink theatre-
coat in delustred satin. Also in the audi-
ence were Sir Frank and Lady Selleck ;
Mr. and Mrs. Garnet Carroll (her silver-
blue full-length mink coat was worn over
a simple black frock); Mr. and Mrs.
Keith Hattam ; Mrs. Louis Ellinson (her
black talfeta frock scattered with hand-
beaded medallions); Mr. Jack Wedg-
wood and his wife, Senator Ivy Wedg-.
wood, were with Mrs. Maie Hoban and
her daughter Mrs. Alan Hawkesford ;
and together were Mrs. Greenall, Mr.
and Mrs. N. Williams, Mr. P. Ettelson,
Q.C., and Mrs. Ettelson. To Sydney’s
Beril Jents goes the credit for the lovely
gowns created and made by her for the
women in the cast of “Nude with Violin.”
☆ ☆ ☆
Mr. and Mrs. Allan J. Powell, of St.
George’s Road, Toorak, have just
announced the engagement of their elder
daughter Susan Duane to Edward Essex
Mountsteven, younger son of Mr. and
Mrs. Harold Sidney Wright, of Williams
Road, Toorak. Susan, who was educated
at Clyde, has just returned from two
years overseas, mostly at a finishing-school
in Switzerland. Her fiance was educated
at Geelong Grammar and is employed in
a stockbroker’s office. Plans are being
made for a wedding at- St. John’s,
Toorak, in November.
v » #
Vice-Admiral Sir Roy Dowling and
Lady Dowling were guests-of-honor at
the Prince Henry Hospital annual
cabaret-ball at the Royale Ballroom, and
later received the debutantes. At the
entrance to the ballroom was a large
flood-lit model of H.M.A.S. Voyager and
in front of the orchestra was a floral
ship. A floral anchor was suspended over
the official table. The official guests
were received by the president of the
ball committee, Mr. I. L. Schroeder, and
Mrs. Schroeder, assisted by the manager
of the hospital, Mr. R. L. Thomas, and
Mrs. Thomas. The 10 debutantes, wear-
ing identical frocks of white flocked nylon
and carrying Early Victorian posies in
silver holders, made their entrance with
their partners. They were Elizabeth
Row, Judith Eva, Joyce O’Brien, Jillian
Laver, Anne Corrigan, Beverley Hollow,
Anne Lord, Lois McKay, Jennifer
Griffiths and Colleen Bailey.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Town Hall card-party arranged by
Dame Mary Daly and her committee in
aid of the Cancer Campaign was a great
success —more than 600 attended. Pro-
ceeds were augmented by sales from
sweets, cakes and fancy goods. Dame
Mary Daly chose a short frock of black
Chantilly-lace with the bodice em-
broidered with black sequins. Among
the guests she received were Premier
Bolte and Mrs. Bolte, Lieut.-General Sir
Horace Robertson, Mrs. Sidney Baillieu
Myer (chairman of the women’s group
of the campaign), Cr. and Mrs. W. J.
Kilpatrick, Sir Frank and Lady Selleck
and Bishop A. Fox. Also present were
the ticket-secretaries, Mrs. S. Aarons,
Mrs. E. Cottrell, Mrs. Desmond Holly-
wood, Mrs. N. Pizer, Mrs. G. C. (Bing)
Molyneux and Mrs. H. S. Prior.


SYDNEY
Apart from the weather, which is
always with us in one way or another,
the most persistent topic of conversation
during the week was transport. That is,
the type of transport which aims to get
the citizens from one given spot to
another and has nothing to do with those
“transports of delight” you sometimes
read about.
It was the abandonment of all tram-
traffic over the Harbor Bridge which
stimulated the topic. Enthusiasts crowded
the last tram trip across the bridge. It
left Wynyard at 1.30 a.m. on Sunday
morning and arrived at its depot destina-
tion at 3 a.m., which wasn’t really very
good time to make, but, after all, it was
an old tram —the very first one to cross
the bridge 26 years ago—and it was by
no means a youngster even then.
it it it
Caught Mrs. Kevin Gardner, formerly
Trixie McGirr, at an afternoon-tea party
given for her by his sister, Mrs. Tom
Bateman. She is on a short visit from
London and has been staying with her
mother, Mrs. Rachel McGirr, of North
Sydney, and has now taken wing for
Melbourne, where she is staying with her
sister, Mrs. Bing Molyneux.
Mrs. Gardner, who is a graduate in
dentistry from Sydney University, is also
a graduate in cookery from East Sydney
Technical College, and has been asked to
give a demonstration to students of the
Tech, on July 16. She paid a tribute to
the standard of training at the Tech,
when she said that on applying to take
the 12-months course at the Cordon Bleu
Cookery School in Paris she was given a
test and did so well that she was allowed
to complete the Cordon Bleu course in
three months (and came top among the
eight students enrolled). She says that
her husband, who is also a dentist, is
himself an excellent cook, with apple-pie
a speciality. They are both practising
dentistry in London, where they have a
penthouse with a roof-garden in Kensing-
ton.
The opening night of “Dear Delin-
quent” at the Theatre Royal was a little
less colorful than usual because of the
rain, but there were one or two striking
outfits. Mrs. H. J. Brady’s full-length red
coat was dramatic, and Mrs. Jack
Farrington’s cream-satin coat very
elegant. Lady Braddon, who was present
with her sister, Mrs. Campbell Green-
land, was especially interested, as the play
had been written by a friend of hers,
Jack Popplewell, and she had been pre-
sent at its opening night in London when
Diana Massie played the leading role.
The Roger Liveseys also had a special
interest in the play, as the unusually
pretty star, Rona Newton-John, was their
discovery and protegee.
V J? #
Overheard by a lady cub-mistress when
one of her small charges saw a bird-of-
paradise at the museum: “Oh, paradise,
I know that. That’s where my little
brother comes from.” Query—will the
bird-of-paradise ever replace the stork?
it -it it
This month’s luncheon of the Women
Writers’ Society necessitated a certain
amount of reorganisation. Dr.
Isabel Garvice was to have spoken
on “Some Aspects of the Far East,” but
a bereavement in her family made it
impossible for her to be present, and
the president, Mrs. Gwen Morton
Spencer, who was to have been in the
chair, was kept away by illness. How-
ever, the gathering heard a really
fascinating talk on New Guinea by Mrs.
Millard Hagon, and Miss Marie Irvine
made a very competent chairman. Mrs.
Maysie Murray Greig thanked Mrs.
Hagon for her interesting and stimulat-
ing talk.
Mrs. A. M. Stuckey, whose M.B.E.,
awarded in the Birthday Honors List,
recognises a lifetime of service to Red
Cross. Mrs. Stuckey has been for 40
years a member of Red Cross and was
for a considerable part' of that time
president of the Bexley branch. Her
photo by Norton Trevaire.
An engagement of both country and
city interest is that of Patricia Camp-
bell, daughter of the D. M. Campbells,
of Borumbil, Walgett (N.S.W.), to Paul
de Lepervanche, son of Mr. and Mrs.
T. M. de Lepervanche, of Collaroy
Beach. Mrs. de Lepervanche flew to
Walgett early in the week to meet her
future daughter-in-law’s parents, and
♦Will go on to visit her brother and sister-
in-law, Mr. and Mrs. J. M. Gordon of
Windella, Walgett.
☆ ☆ ☆
The skirts are very, very short in the
German-designed clothes on parade at
David Jones’ restaurant. Sydney women
will be recalling the 1920 saying that a
dimple in the knee is worth two in the
cheek if they feel that this latest revela-
tion from the fashion-front is not to be
ignored. It is now over 10 years since
the first overseas fashions were shown in
Sydney (that was when the New Look
took us by storm), and in the interim we
have had fashions here from all-over —
French, Italian, Irish, English and Ameri-
can. Possibly by the year 2000 we will
have fashions from the moon—or even
on the moon if things move really fast.
V V V
Lady Woodward, who is president of
the Victoria League, opened the league's
41st annual meeting, held in the Empress
Ballroom during the week. Mrs. H. B.
Farncomb was elected chairman at the
meeting and office-bearers included were
Mrs. Bertram Wright, Mrs. R. T. Russell
and Mrs. H. H. McNall (who was made
an honorary life-member in recognition
of the work she has done for the league
over 30 years). At the meeting it was
announced that Sir Cuthbert Ackroyd,
chairman of the Central Council of the
Victoria League and an ex-Lord Mayor
of London, will visit Australia in Sep-
tember to attend the inter-State con-
ference of the Victoria League in
Adelaide; he will be in Australia for
one month.
☆ ☆ ☆
Returned to Sydney during the week,
Brenda Bolton, who went to London to
study ballet five years ago. Just turned
21, she is already a member of the corps
de ballet at Covent Garden, where the
principals are Margot Fonteyn and
Christopher Soames. She has danced as
a ballerina (at the age of 17) with the
touring company of Sadlers Wells Ballet
(now called the Royal Ballet). She is
staying with her parents, Mr. and Mrs.
H. R. Bolton, of Rose Bay, during her
visit to Sydney.
CANBERRA
The R.A.A.F. Officers’ Mess, gaily
decorated with arrangements of poinsettia
and warmed by a huge log-fire, was the
setting for the armual Winter Ball, held
earlier than usual this year to permit
attendance by crew-members of 86
Transport Wing who will leave shortly
for the United States on a delivery
mission for our new Hercules aircraft.
Among the dancers were the acting-
C.O. Canberra, Wing-Commander D. E.
Moseley and his wife ; the C.O. 86 Trans-
port Wing, Wing-Commander D. E.
Olerenshaw and Mrs. Olerenshaw;
Squadron-Leader and Mrs. W. Keritz;
Squadron-Leader and Mrs. K. Isaacs;
Squadron-Leader Grayson—up from
Melbourne on his way to sunny Queens-
land ; the Counsellor of the Netherlands
■Embassy and Mrs. J. H. O. Insinger (she
topped her white-brocade frock with a
velvet coat in ruby-red); Flight-Lieuten-
ant Gordon Hughes and his wife ; Flying-
Officer J. Day with Mrs. Day, who wore
lilac taffeta ; Miss F. Foote, attractive in
peacock-blue silk ; Captain L. G. Doyle,
R.A.A.F.; Flight-Lieutenant P. Hamilton-
Foster ; Flying-Officer Noel Bellamy and
Mr. and Mrs. A. D. Collins.


I will never forget the
summer the Bishop of
Birrabungee camped near
us at Cowrie Bay.,,
He arrived with his family
on a Saturday night. They
parked their caravan under the
gumtrees at the foot of the
little hill. Dad went over and
asked them to have a cup of
tea, which they did. As usual
for the day of arrival, they
were dressed more decently
than the rest of us. They
introduced themselves as the
North wickes.
The Professor came
slouching-up from his camp
under the pine-trees, followed
by Mr. Heggity. This was usual,
too. It happened whenever
someone boiled the billy. When
the Northwickes went back to
their caravan the Professor
told us that was the Bishop of
Birrabungee.
Groans from us kids. A
bishop! Parked right opposite
us.
Mum said, “Now you
children will have to behave
yourselves. And Dad, you
watch your language.”
At dawn on Sunday the
camping-ground was merry
with the sound of kookaburras.
The noise became part of my
dreams. Then came the sound
of kerosene-tins being flattened.
That woke everyone.
Faces peered from tents to
be greeted by a rousing “Hoy
there! Not up yet? Come on,
come on, it’s_a glorious morn-
ing,” from the Bishop as he
busied himself making a fire-
place. Wearing faded khaki
shorts, with a rip in the seat, he
didn't look at all like my idea
of a bishop.
Soon fires were crackling,
sizzling pans sent savory smells
into the crisp air and the river
splashed as bodies hurtled in
for their before - breakfast
swims.
Along the track came Billy
Martin: “Hey! The mullet's
running!”
Breakfast was cast aside.
With difficulty we disentangled
our long bamboo fishing-poles
from their places among the
branches of the pine-trees and
ran behind the tents to the
river-bank. Those unlucky
enough to be caught without
any worms made a dash for the
soft, boggy ground near the
tap.
They were running, all right;
we hauled them in fast. The
Reverend Joseph Harkness
came galloping from his tent,
followed by his wife, wailing,
“You haven’t time, Joe, you’ll
be late!”
“Blow it, woman, the mullet
don’t run every day.”
Wet Camp
By GRACE HOINVILLE
We were sympathetic. Each
year, on one Sunday, he.was
expected to preach a sermon in
the local church. It was always
the same performance, the last-
minute frantic rush, the cries of
pain as he put on his clerical
collar after weeks of open-
necked shirts, Mrs. Harkness
trotting behind him brushing
at his crumpled coat. But
today the mullet were running,
and God’s children would have
to wait until the Reverend
caught some fish.
Gradually the catches became
fewer and only a handful of
hardy, hopeful types remained.
Dad said to Mum, “How
many did you catch?”
She displayed them proudly.
“Oh cripes, Mum,” he
protested in a shocked voice,
“they’re all undersized.”
Mum said coldly, “Well, I’m
not throwing them back. You’re
always making me throw them
back. I think you’re jealous
because I catch more than you
do.”
"Oilly martin, always the
eager harbinger, trotted
along: “Look-out, everyone,
here comes the ranger.”
Dad said, “Now you’ve done
it. He’ll catch you red-
handed.”
“No he won’t” said Mum,
quickly pushing the fish under
a bucket and sitting on it.
Tom Smithers cantered up
on his old brown mare. “Morn-
ing. I hear the mullet’s been
running. Catch any?”
Dad showed our fish. Tom
ran a professional squint over
them.
“Yairs, waal, they’re nice
fish all right.”
He turned to Mum and raised
his thick white eyebrows, while
his mouth dropped open in
surprise. “What’s this, Missus?
Didn’t you get any today,
then?”
He climbed slowly from his
horse and started filling his
pipe.
Mum sat firmly on her
bucket, face a little flushed.
Tom saw the draughtboard
laid out on a box.
“Now, that’s a game I’m
pretty smart at. Play you a
game, Missus?”
Mum gulped. “Well, not
just now, Mr. Smithers.”
He squatted on the ground
near the box. “Aw, come on
now, bet you can’t beat me.”
He looked hard at Mum.
“Come on, get off your bucket.”
Mum stood up gingerly. A
silver tail peeped from beneath
the bucket. Dad gave me a
shove and I sat down heavily
on the bucket. After a while,
I saw the kids coming along,
ready to go down to the surf.
“Hey, aren’t you ready yet?”
they yelled.
I started to get up. My father
pushed me back.
“Watching her mother play
draughts,” he called to the
kids.
I sat on, bitterly. At last,
having beaten Mum several
times, Tom rose slowly. He
tapped his pipe against the fire-
place, stretched and yawned.
“Waal, thanks, Missus. Better
get along now.”
He climbed onto his horse,
gathered up the reins and
trotted off a few paces, then
checked his horse and slewed
round in the saddle.
“Eh, not going to leave them
fish under the bucket all day,
are you? Going to be a
sticky day ; you better clean
em.
His stomach heaved, then his
chest heaved, and a rumble of
laughter came from him. Then,
still chuckling, he cantered off.
'That night the rain started.
Quiet, persistent rain that
gradually cooled everything
down, slowly filtering through
the pine-trees and dropping on
the tents.
Next day it still rained. Dark
clouds drove in from the sea.
In the township, locals shook
their heads.
“In for it now” they told us.
“You people better watch that
river.”
Dusk came early. Dark
clouds sat above the mountains,
waiting to slide down to the
valley. They had a strange,
greenish glimmer about them.
Nearer they came, while we
watched. As they approached
there was a great rush of wind
and a monstrous crash of
thunder. Lightning ripped the
sky and the clouds burst.
Everyone came to our tent
because it was the biggest. No
one thought of going to bed
while the storm was on.
Lightning played darts all
around us. We children,
pleasantly scared, crouched
together on She stretchers,
giggling and quarrelling
happily.
The men lit pipes and
cigarettes and talked fishing,
while the women knitted,
flinching as the thunder came
louder, casting anxious eyes at
their children.
Mrs. Heggity sent her
husband to their tent for her
portable organ ; then, with the
air of one being very British in
the face of disaster, she played
for us. She didn’t actually get
around to “Abide with Me,”
but she got mighty close to it.
After a while, it was plain that
she thought the Reverend and
the Bishop were being down-
right un-co-operative. Indeed,
the Reverend was actually
scowling at her as his voice
boomed out, trying to talk
about fishing over the sound
of Mrs. Heggity’s hymns.
Some of the men went out
to inspect the river.
“She’s coming up, all right.
Don’t like the look of it.
When’s high tide?”
“Three-o’clock in the morn-
ing.”
Dad said, “I don’t want to
alarm anyone, but I think we
should get our things ready for
a quick move.”
The Professor thought then
of the possibility of the river-
bar being blocked by sand. “We
ought to go down and take
spades, just in case she’s
blocked,” he said, thoughtfully
pulling the brim of his stained
old hat further over his eyes.
“If she’s blocked, all this water
hasn’t a hope of getting away*
the tide will be high and sweep
right over, then she’ll bank up
and we’ll be sunk.”
Eagerly enough, in the face
of the women’s uneasiness, they
collected shovels and spades
and tramped off.
T\odging Mum, I sneaked
along behind them. They
plodded down the slippery track
and over the bridge. The roar
of the ocean was loud and
continuous. Hanging back
where I was, away from the
light of the lanterns, it was
pitch-dark.
I wished desperately that I
hadn’t followed them, but was
much too frightened to go home
alone in the dark. The men
climbed down into the dunes.
Where the river ran parallel
with the ocean before curving
in to join it there should have
been a wide, quarter-mile
sweep of sand, but now it had


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALEXANDER DONALD DAVIDSON
late of Ryde.—TAKE NOTICE that
JESSIE JEAN DAVIDSON hag filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 516 of 1957 on
the ground of repeated assaults and
cruel beatings during one year If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court House King Street by the 15th
day of August 1958 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
ROY F. TURNER, K. H. WILSON &
CO., of 850 George Street, Sydney.— J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
thing to say, but I never went
becos of w’at he hadn’t done
and all the quarrel-quarrel-
quarrel. Hate —that’s w’y.”
The final, ringing-down-the-
curtain voice:
“.... as the coffin sank, it
took this grand old man from
sight for ever. But not from
memory. Nothing could do
that. Love lasts, and he was
. . . above all . . , always . , ,
lovable.”
This vibrated professionally
to nothing. Then, from far
away, nearing, droned the last
of all voices:
“ of w’at he hadn’t done
and all the quarrel-quarrel-
quarrel. Hate —that’s w’y.”
Silence.
Then, Diane first, nearest
and mullet-nimble, they leapt
slavishly at Frederick in con-
gratulatory uproar, laced con-
gratulations with drinks and,
content to be the intoxicated
mob on his Caesarean Triumph,
swept Frederick to his hey
b-b-bloody n-onny.
Hours later it was over ; the
last cars menacing the box-
edgings of the drive had been
screamed from crime, had
gone.
T/'irginia, Paul and Robbie
* were alone.
Paul’s drink - puffed face
looked younger; he was the
restored juvenile-lead. “Now!”
he cried, attempting entre-
chats, “Nightcaps, three night-
caps, thirty-three nightcaps,
thrice thirty-three. . t ”
“Paul!”
Virginia, by one of the fires,
eyeing him distastefully from
the looking-glass, was unscrew-
ing an earring as though
removing an intention to for-
bearance.
“Really, Paul, I think ° — I
know you’ve had quite
enough.”
Slowly, theatrically, Paul’s
eyes narrowed; he took a
breath. Before he could speak,
in the space eyes take to
narrow, Robbie heard winter
flash alight, its chandelier-drops
quiver, chink secretly million-
on-million-fold, opening of a
fugue of final and deathly ici-
ness.
Too tired to pretend detach-
ment, unheard, unobserved, un-
important, he left the room as
the over - prolonged truce
smashed like an enormity of
crystal. O God, he thought,
in two hours the trees will also
be obscene with birds scream-
ing the doggerel of dawn.
Retreating, he heard the
quarrellers, not to incommode
his ears, unconsciously and
courteously extend the pitch of
their venom.
In flight he almost trod down
his godchild. In night-dress,
dressing-gown and slippers, she
stood in the corridor while the
multiplying echoes of rancor
without grief, of crippled
rapture and recited malice, of
a perverse bitterness far from
the fury and dramatics of
truth, streaked by like flak.
An instinct to enfold, to
warm with his warmth, to dry
the eyes of this rigid listener,
vanished. Susan’s eyes held no
tears. Moreover, she was
patently dressed, for this; for
winter without, for winter
raging within. She had waited
patiently. The tearless eyes,
already iced-over, were focused
toward the radiance of aver-
sion spilling from the party-
room.
“Susan,” Robbie whispered.
“Susan, dear.”
She went on staring toward
the odious brilliance.
Through the stinging hulla-
baloo Robbie caught a
mosquito-like whining, “I’d
stare . . . just stare . , . just
stare. .
The eight-year-old equal of
any professed ice-maiden,
Susan went on staring.
disappeared and I could see
only water, pale-amber where
the circles of lantern-light
bobbed."
The men splashed off, making
for the river-bar half-a-mile
along. I couldn’t keep up with
them. I cried-out, to let Dad
know I was there, but the wind
shredded my voice before it
reached them. The lights
moved further and further away
and I was left alone.
On one side the ocean
roared, forced high across the
sand by the driving wind.
Splashing and stumbling along
in the shallow water of the
flooded river, fear-paralysed, I
was terrified lest the next step
take me into the deep, swirling
water of the river’s usual bed.
Half-turning, I looked fearfully
behind me and at once lost
all sense of direction. I cried
out again and again. Sobbing,
I began to stumble towards
where I thought the bridge and
the road were. The water was
colder, the sound of the ocean
louder.
I stared at the darkness
ahead. A thin line of white
raced towards me. Icy-cold
water swirled up my legs, past
my knees, breaking around my
thighs. I stood rigidly, waiting
to resist the pull of the powerful
undertow. After the wave had
fled back the danger of my
position brought me a strange
calm. I made a soldierly half-
turn and began to march
steadily back way I had
come.
When the water suddenly
deepened I knew by its warmth
and the velvety softness of the
sand under my feet that I
was heading for the main river
again. I made another careful
half-turn and, trembling now,
with my calmness vanishing,
began to run forward. In a
minute I reached dry sand and
saw the bridge looming up
before me.
I remember lying in the cold
sand trembling, then running
frantically across the dunes to
the bridge, over its rough, wet
surface, down the road and
into the camping-ground, never
stopping until I reached our
tent.
Seeing me run in, my mother
cried, “Come in out of the rain
at once!”
vShe was busily stowing things
into boxes. I crept over to my
stretcher, got into my pyjamas
and dived into bed, pulling the
clothes over my head.
"Deforb dawn Mr. Martin
came and woke everyone.
“Better get moving, folks.
She means business all right.”
Shivering, I dressed and stole
out to the back of the tent
and stepped into water. I
jumped back with a cry of
terror. Then I squatted down
and peered out over the dark
river. I told myself that it was
just the river, the old, warm,
quiet, brown, muddy river, in
which we swam and fished and
boated. But I couldn’t con-
vince myself. It was moving
swiftly and roaring quietly but
unendingly. .
I went back to help Mum.
The men hadn’t been able to
open the sand-bar. Dawn
came and still the water rose.
The river was heavy with the
water that had poured down
last night, running in little
rivulets and leaping cascades
down the mountainsides,
splashing over the rocks,
banking up in smooth, shining
shoulders, churning over the
shallows, running swift and
silent beneath the willows
where the big trout lived,
coming at last to the broader
river and now roaring past us,
pouring down to the ocean,
meeting the cold salt-water and
banking back again on itself.
The Bishop was the first to
leave.
“Oh ye of little faith! ” the
Reverend boomed at him.
The Bishop stuck his head
out of the car and shouted back,
“Ha, ha! We’ll see, we’ll see!
I’m keeping my powder dry.”
One by one the campers left.
We were the last to go, except
for the Reverend, pottering
around while his wife clucked
after him, begging him to
hurry.
“Now look here, look here,”
he said to her, “there’s no need
for all this panic. The Lord
knows what he’s doing.”
“I don’t doubt that,” she
retorted sharply, “but I doubt
if you do.”
TTwo hours later, having
found a house to move
into for temporary shelter, we
walked back to the camping-
ground. As we came over the
hill we stopped and stared.
The paddocks had vanished
under lapping brown water.
Under the pine-trees, the
Reverend Harkness, waist-deep
in water, was stowing things
up into the branches. His wife
and the tent and the car had
left.
We slid down the hill. I stood
at the edge of the water, unable
to will myself to enter it. The
others splashed over closer to
the Reverend.
The Professor was chuckling.
“I say, no need for all this
panic, old chap,” he said to
the Reverend.
A little red in the face, the
Reverend answered cheerfully.
“Oh well, we’ve been praying
for rain, you know, and now
pur cup runneth over.”
He grabbed a washbasin that
was bobbing past him, and
added, “More than somewhat.”
Somehow, in the years that
followed, I could never feel
the same about the river. My
idea of the river as a motherly
old body on whose bosom we
could cast ourselves with
complete faith was but my
idea. For the first time in my
short life I understood that
things are not always what they
seem. And never again did I
swim alone in the river.


0.8. E., R.A.N., whose father’s cousin
was a Governor of N. S. Wales, whose
family notabilities included Uncle
Frank the Nabob from India, Uncle
Edward on furlough from Madras, arid
Uncle Tom the Rear-Admiral, and they
shoved him into school as one of the
Children of the Royal, Religious and
Ancient Foundation of Christ’s Hos-
pital, where Charles Lamb (so he said)
had wept his boyhood away and where,
if he didn’t weep, Rawson was con-
siderably troubled by the remarkable
Tudor costume he had to wear, by the
incessant religious services, by the cold
and the damp and, as at all schools
everywhere, by the food.
True, he could occasionally venture
to escape by calling at his grand-
mother’s, where the family notables
assembled for afternoon-tea, but he
was so scared of their grandeur that
he always rang the servants’ bell instead
of the visitors’ bell and was infinitely
relieved if he could find the family out
and sneak a comfortable feed with
the cook in the kitchen.
Then, perhaps feeling that that was
not sufficiently spartan, the family put
Rawson into a training-ship for three
years—the Worcester, moored off
Greenhithe, Kent—where he fell in
and out of his hammock, got ship-
wrecked with the matron when the
nearby hospital-ship broke adrift in
the night, boxed, shinned up the rig-
ging and, for light entertainment, “ran
the gauntlet on cold, wintry nights.”
Then, feeling that a youngster who
was to be brought up the hard way
must sooner or later really cope with
hardship, they put him to sea as an
(unpaid) apprentice on the stee*!-built
barque Inversnaid of Aberdeen, which
sailed for Monte Video with' a cargo
of coal, and then came to Newcastle,
N. S. Wales, for more coal—a substance
which Lt.-Com. Rawson seems
vaguely to dislike—and so to San
Francisco, and back to Australia for
wheat: all over the place, wherever
there was a cargo to be picked up.
Rawson boxed with the negro cook
for fun, helped the mate when he
(literally) jumped from the poop-rail
on to the mutinous crew, assisted in
landing the 13ft. shark which broke
the carpenter’s leg, felt due alarm when
one of the cargoes of coal seemed to
be on fire, helped to shift the bags of
wheat when they made the ship list
and, principally, shinned up aloft:—
When finally we reached it the
sail was like a sheet of iron. We
lay flat on our bellies strung out
along the yard, our heads against
the footropes stretched out behind
us. Our fingers clutched at the stiff
wet canvas, our nails were bruised
and broken, and the cold wind blew
our oilskins over our heads. We
encouraged each other with faintly
optimistic cries: “Here she comes!
Up with her, boys!” Below us we
could see the white seething cauld-
ron. When at length we regained the
deck we reeled to and fro like
drunken men and were at our wits’
end.
But for Rawson there was a glimmer
of hope. He got ashore to his rich
relatives at Monte Video; he escaped
from Newcastle and its coal to his
relative, the Governor, in Sydney; and
the Governor assured him, what he
must have known all along at the back
of his mind, “We must get you out of
this. Must get you out. What about
the Royal Indian Marine? Know one
or two people . . .” For the men it
AU TOMBEAU DE MON PERE...
By RONALD McCUAIG
1 went on Friday afternoons
Among the knives and forks and spoons
Where mounted grindstones flanked the
floor
To my father’s office door.
So serious a man was he,
The Buyer for the Cutlery . . .
I found him drawing lamps from stock
In his huge stocktaking book,
And when he turned the page to me:
“Not bad for an old codger, eh ?”
I thought this frivolous in him,
Preferring what he said to them:
They wanted reparations paid
In German gold, and not in trade,
But he rebuked such attitudes:
“You’ll have to take it out in goods.”
And what they did in time was just,
He said, what he had said they must.
If Time had any end in sight
It was, to prove my father right.
The evening came and changed him coats,
Produced a rag and rubbed his boots,
And then a mirror and a brush
And smoothed his beard and his
moustache —
A sign for blinds outside to fall
On shelves and showcases, and all
Their hammers, chisels, planes and spades
And pocket-knives with seven blades.
Then, in the lift, the patted back:
“He’s growing like you, Mr. Mac !”
The hearty voices thus implied
A reason for our mutual pride.
And so the front-door roundabout
Gathered us in and swept us out
To sausage, tea in separate pots,
And jellies crowned with creamy clots.
And once he took me on to a
Recital, to hear Seidl play,
And Hutchens spanked the piano-bass
Never looking where it was :
When I got home I practised this
But somehow always seemed to miss,
And my cigar-box violin,
After Seidl’s, sounded thin.
And once he took me to a bill
Of sporadic vaudeville.
A man and woman held the stage;
She sneered in simulated rage,
And when he made a shrewd reply -
He’d lift his oval shirt-front high
And slap his bare and hairy chest
To celebrate his raucous jest:
Then, as the shout of joy ensued
Uniting mime and multitude,
And mine rang-out an octave higher,
A boy-soprano’s in that choir,
My father’s smile waj half-unease,
Half-pleasure in his power to please:
“Try not to laugh so loudly, Ron,
Those women think you’re catching on.”
But far more often it was to
The School of Arts we used to go,
Up the dusty stairway's gloom,
Through the musty reading-room,
And out to a veranda-seat
Overlooking Hunter Street;
There, by the hour, my father sat
Motionless, to meditate.
A cakeshop glowed across the way
With a rainbow-cake display ;
I never saw its keeper there,
And never saw a customer,
And yet there was activity
High in the south-western sky,
A bottle flashing on a sign
Advertising someone’s wine.
So, as my father thought and thought —
Considering lines of saws he’d bought;
Or, silence both his church and club,
Feeling close to Nature’s hub ;
Or maybe merely practising
Never saying anything,
Since he could go, when deeply stirred,
Months, at home, without a word;
Or pondering the indignity
Of having to put-up with me —
1 contemplated, half-awake.
The flashing wine, the glowing cake :
The wine that no one can decant,
And the cake we didn’t want:
As Mr. Blake’s Redeemer said,
“This the wine, and this the bread.”


seems to have been practically
unrelieved hardship:—
The only home they knew appar-
ently was the Sailors’ Home. They
were like characters in modern
novels, isolated individuals projected
against empty space. No photo-
graphs adorned their bunks, except
an occasional postcard nude....
Their leisure hours seemed to be
occupied in yarning and darning,
making models and scrimshaw work,
and gazing idly out to the horizon.
In bad weather they congregated
under the fo’c’sle-head, clad in oil-
skins, gloomily surveying the scene
The salt beef and pork, horrible
to look upon, were kept in the brine
in the harness-casks on the poop
We had no pride in our hungry
ship. No spirit of emulation moved
our hardened bowels. We were just
a bunch of half-drowned, half-
starved, half-paid stiffs and bums
engaged in a prosaic, not to say
squalid, existence.
Even for the stiffs and bums there
must, of course, have been compensa-
tions. Rawson does mention them, but
he does not stress them; and for that
there is one special reason: there were
not too many compensations in the
Inversnaid, for the captain was an
Aberdeen Scot, so dour and miserly that
he proves how much truth there can be
in a libel.
He was religious and a teetotaller,
so he hated to let the men go ashore
and, in fact, wouldn’t. They were
weeks and weeks unloading coal and
loading sand-ballast in Monte Video
and not once did one of them get
ashore. Even Adelaide was too sinful
for them; and in Papeete, of all places,
when they put in there to bring news
of a steamer in distress, all they tasted
of the delights of the South Seas was
a bunch of bananas which the captain,
probably to keep them in good health,
brought aboard for them.
He was so mean that when their
dinner was spilt on the deck one
stormy day he wouldn’t let the cook get
them any more; he ate-up all their
miserable wages by overcharging them
at the slop-chest; and the greatest con-
cession he ever gave them was half-a-
tot of rum when they got on board
again after taking out a boat on a
stormy night to search (in vain) for a
boy who had fallen from the rigging.
Somewhere there must have been
some good in him, for Rawson finished
by being quite fond of him; but it was
a very Scottish good.
Rawson did eventually make his
e^ a P e j nto R°yal Indian Marine,
aided by the Governing uncle and all
tne notable relatives; and there, at
Rangoon and in the Persian Gulf, was
at least warm; and met Bowers (who
afterwards died with Scott in the
Antarctic); and some of those legen-
dary men who find oil and become the
advisers of native princes; and also a
great many bloodthirsty Arabs who
objected, not unnaturally, to the
attempts of the British to frustrate
their perfectly legitimate trade in gun-
running to the frontier tribesmen of
Baluchistan, Afghanistan and Persia-
one can very easily see both sides of
that problem.
Here, more-or-less, the autobio-
graphy stops. There is doubtless more
to come. If it is as good as this it
will do.
Children's Books
Illustrated with pen-drawings by
Elizabeth Durack, Deborah Buller-
Murphy’s An Attempt to Eat the Moon
(Georgian House) is a set of aboriginal
legends which the author heard in her
childhood from the now-extinct Dor-
denup tribe of south-western Australia.
The stories have a thin, remote
charm; occasionally, as in the phrase
about the brook that “wept itself
away” when the king and his son died,
or in tales of old men and young wives,
coming briefly to life; and always of
interest for their historical value and
for their animation of bush-flowers and
bush-creatures such as the coral-creeper
or the carpet-snake named Woggal.
Gully of Gold, by Mavis Thorpe
Clark (Heinemann), is about the gold-
rushes in Victoria. Jane Ellen does not
like the family’s going to the diggings;
however she is persuaded by her
brother, so the four Bennett children,
accompanied by Peter the stowaway,
set-out.
On the road they meet Mamie Shugg
and her husband Ed, and also Stephen
Slater, who shows them to the gully
where he thinks gold can be found and
who turns-out to be Peter’s father, who
was unjustly convicted and transported
to Australia for ten years.
The Bunyip Hole, by Patricia
Wrightson (Angus and Robertson), is
set in the country just south of the
Queensland border, where the Collins
children are on holiday.
They repair an old shack beside a
dam which they have made into a
swimming-pool. The Ringtailed Bandi-
coots, as Ken calls the two boys who
wear cowboy hats and shirts, come
overnight and wreck the pool. The
children persuade their mother and
father to let them camp in the shack
and there continue to have pleasing
adventures.
Some other recent children’s books
are: The Midnight Folk, by John Mase-
field (Heinemann), which, set in the
English countryside with Bitem the
fox and Blinky the owl, enlivened with
midnight treasure-hunts and piracy in
the South Seas, has just about every-
thing; Pepe Moreno and the Roller
Skates, by Eric Allen (Faber), an attrac-
tively produced book set in Spain about
a shoeblack-boy who hankered for
roller-skates and got them; Midsummer
Mystery, by Sylvia Little (Nelson),
about two of those wonderful school-
girls who capture jewel-robbers; and
If Wishes Were Poodles, by Marjorie
A. Sindall (Heinemann), about two
sisters, one with a passion for art and
the other with a passion for poodles.
Reviewed Briefly
An Encyclopaedia of Parliament:
Norman Wilding and Philip Laundy
(Cassell). The authors are both Parlia-
mentary librarians in Rhodesia, from
which vantage-point they survey Par-
liamentary institutions and procedure
throughout the Commonwealth. The
section on Australia is accurate in the
main, though it is misleading to say
that “railways” are among the “main
concerns” of the Federal Government.
Clear, compact, comprehensive and
interesting as a reference-book.
* * * *
'
Loon’s Cry: Mercedes Mackay
(Heinemann). An excellent reporter,
Mercedes Mackay here gives us an
observant portrait of two very dis-
similar people living through the sum-
mer by a Canadian lake. One is an
Englishwoman disorientated by the
death of her young son, the other an
eccentric neighbor of the hillbilly type.
So much interest is created by the daily
activities of these two it is a pity that
the plot is so fragile and the climax
so unsatisfactory.
* * * *
Immortal Queen: Elizabeth Byrd
(Constable). The full truth about Mary
of Scotland will probably not be known
this side of Judgment Day, and in the
meantime each has his own opinion.
Elizabeth Byrd presents Mary as weak,
frenzied, mad with love for Bothwell,
given to mean expedients in disposing
of rivals, commonplace in outlook,
suburban in expression. “You’ll do
nothing of the sort!” she snaps at Both-
well when he offers to fight someone in
single combat. Miss Byrd regards the
Casket letters as genuine, accepting the
rather naive reason that Elizabeth
would scarcely have published them
had they been forgeries. Much study
has obviously gone into this long novel
and many will find it engrossing. Both-
well appears as a dashing, heroic figure,
a kind of 16th-century Rhett Butler.
But it is hard to think of Mary as so
devoid of aristocratic feeling and hav-
ing so much in common with the small-
time femme fatale of the modern novel.


mm&
J'
M
vm ' : v''>
-■;> - - ':
m
y 'I?
mg.
•••■»
* * y ‘ --
- J
■
|. •<. x
I''',*' &
i
v
m&
m
:iiS
;*x :«*.•> v
m
5^
p|
Hii
-;
m
¥?yiS
■>■. -■■■
5fS
S^:
>y. ; ;'-:%
This bed should be empty
Every year traffic accidents in Australia exact an
enormous toll in deaths, injuries and economic loss.
Each year road accidents kill over 2,000 Australians,
injure more than 50,000 others and cost you —the
community—many millions of pounds. This accident
problem isn’t static—it becomes more serious every year.
Yet many road accidents could be avoided if we built
the kind of roads we need for the kind of traffic we have
today . . . and the kind we'll have tomorrow.
Our engineers and administrators know that most of
our roads are too narrow. So are bridges and culverts.
Curves are too sharp. Sight distance is too short. There
are dangerous crests and level crossings. On top of all
this, there just isn't room for all the traffic that's trying
to move. In 1967, it is estimated that Australia will have
over 4 million motor vehicles on its roads.
Obviously, no time should be lost in moving ahead
with a modern roads system that can carry all our traffic
efficiently, economically and safely.
We need a blueprint for better roads—NOW!
Roadbuilding is vital to Australia’s future. It is a task
of top and urgent priority that must be tackled now.
We have the engineers, the manpower and the ingenuity
to build good roads. What is urgently required is an
Australian National Roads Authority. Such an authority
could submit to the Federal Government a constructive
programme for the planning, financing, building and the
maintaining of Australia’s roads.
Good roads don’t cost . . . they pay!
CATERPILLAR*
When you think of
better roads think of the
big yellow machines
that help build them.
m
. n s
-"‘•'jV*’*
’caterpillar and cat
ARE REGISTERED TRADE MARKS
OF CATERPILLAR TRACTOR CO.
CATERPILLAR ©F AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
_ REGISTERED USER CF TRADE MARKS CATERPILLAR AND CAT
