

The Bulletin
"Harkness at War”—page 34
Wednesday, January 15, 1958
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
"I reckoned it would be an ideal place for a bit of quiet study."


WRITE SHORT STORIES,
ARTICLES, PARS,
AND EARN AT HOME.
There is an enormous demand for accept-
able MSS. It will pay you to study with
STOTT’S Correspondence College.
Head these extracts from Students’ Letters:
“During the past six months my Acceptances
have returned me over £200.”
“I am pleased to report further Successes
since Les. 10. This makes £53 in hand, with
more to come.”
“I list hereunder my Acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.”
“My earnings from my Writing total almost
£70.”
“Since 1 started my Course, I have had
SIXTEEN Stories and Articles accepted, so you
6ne the Course has more than PAID FOR
ITSELF.”
Our Literary Prospentus is tent without obliga-
tion to all interested in Writing. Write for
your copy today.
Russell St.. Melbourne: 149 Castlfieagh iit.
S'dnev; 290 Adelaide St.. Brisbane; 2) OreuTeii
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray 9t., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without anv obh
(ration, yout Prosper-tus. and full pmucuiars oi
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S.B. 2551 AOS
BOOKHtTNTER, Box 2871, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult tj
obtain volume, let us And it for you- fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
STEELE RUDD AGAIN
It is obvious from the illustrations to
Steele Rudd’s books (Angus and
Robertson have lately reprinted Sandy’s
Selection and Our New Selection in
the one volume) that the artists were
never in complete agreement as to the
immortal Dad’s physiognomy.
In the first glimpse of him as the
illustrations are arranged in the 1955
reprint of “On Our Selection” Lionel
Lindsay makes him the bald, rotund,
white-bearded figure like Santa Claus
which has become the standard
portrait. In Alf Vincent’s drawing a
little further on he is short, decrepit,
bristling and wooden, like one of
Oswald Pryor’s Cousin Jacks. A. J.
Fischer makes him a gnomelike little
person, very ancient, the father of
twelve children.
Suddenly in A. H. Fullward’s portrait
he turns into a ferocious hairy giant,
pointing an accusing finger at the
reader, about twenty years younger
than most of the other artists show
him. Ruby Lindsay transfigured him
into a little, bearded egg. Norman
Lindsay for the most part made him
a burly, roaring, most alarming-
looking old brute, but on one or two
occasions relented and turned him
into Lionel’s Father Christmas.
On a few points, however, there is a
general accord: Dad is always (except
in Fullward) aged about 85, incessantly
begetting children and, above all,
stout. /
Now, the veiy curious fact that I
have discovered in rereading these
books (how many others may have dis-
covered it before me I know not) is
that Dad was —possibly—a thin little
man. At least that seems the only
reasonable deduction I can draw from
the solitary description which Steele
Rudd gives of fiim —and that an
oblique one—in “On Our Selection”:
Sarah was as good as any man,
so Dad reckoned. She could turn
her hand to anything from sewing a
shirt to sinking a post-hole. She
could give Dad inches fn arm
measurements, and talk about a leg!
She had a leg—a beauty! It was as
thick at the ankle as Dad’s was at
the thigh, nearly.
It is conceivable, I suppose, that
Sarah had a truly enormous leg, like
an elephant’s, which would still allow
Dad to be reasonably stout. But that
is an uncharitable deduction, and
improbable. The only other possible
conclusion is that Dad, as Steele Rudd
first saw him, was thin.
Another discovery I have made for
myself—a most obvious one, but I
had missed it on previous readings—
is even more devastating: for it is
clearly .stated that old Dad Rudd, the
representative Australian cocky, the
salt of our hot earth, the incarnation
of the outback, the figure who has
passed into our folklore and. like
Clancy of the Overflow and Saltbush
Bill, has begun to assume the propor-
tions of a national myth, the oldest of
old Australians, was in fact a New
Australian —an immigrant: an English-
man; (whisper it!) a Pommy. So it is
stated: —
Dad didn’t believe in too much
feeding. He had had wide experi-
ence in dogs and coursing at Home
on his grandfather’s large estates . . .
No doubt at this date we can forgive
him for that: I should be the last to
query that an immigrant can become
Australian by adoption* and assimila-
tion.
But how did this thin, harassed, fiery
little Englishman, incessantly kicking
the dogs into mid-air, dashing at his
children with the hoe, banging the
horse with the plough-scraper or brood-
ing in despair at the fireside, as we
see him in Steele Rudd’s original
concept in “On Our Selection,” ever
come to be either the roaring, burly
buffoon of “Our New Selection” or the
forthright, four-square figure we all
know and cherish in the national myth?
Steele Rudd himself set down the
essentials, of the myth as well as anyone
Gould in his sentimental conclusion to
“Back at Our Selection”: —
“If ever there was a man who
won his way,” Anderson went on,
“by industry and hard work, and
honesty, that man was my old
• neighbor and my old friend.”
Anderson placed his hand affec-
tionately and dramatically upon
Dad’s grey head. And the glasses
rang and rattled again, and old
Fraser, above the din, called out
feelingly, “Aye, but he’s honest!”
Then Anderson told of the trials
and struggles that Dad went through
in the early days, and brought sad
memories to Mother’s heart and tears
to her eyes, and filled the rest of us
with a new and strange pride in
Dad. We felt that his virtues were
only now being revealed to us.
“And I ask you,” Anderson said,
“to fill your glasses and drink to
the health of Mr. Rudd.”
They filled their glasses and, as
they held them high above their
heads, and lifted their voices and
sang “He’s a jolly good fellow,” Dad
remained seated, his broad chest
heaving with emotion, his head
bowed down, and his eyes fixed on
the things before him. And—-there
let us leave him.
There, we may observe. Dad has a
broad chest. When did he develop that?
In the same book. “Back on Our
Selection.” he is described as “burly.”
(The only other descriptions of him I
have been able to find are one of him
“taking off his spectacles.” one of him
“looking old” and one of him looking
like “an infuriated old-man kangaroo”
. . . none of them very helpful.) How
did Dad grow “burly”?
The answer. I am sure, is that he
was largely a creation of the illustra-
tors; or possibly, to be just, of J. F.
Archibald, who, as so often happens,
may have suggested to the artists the
way he should be depicted.
Cecil Mann has a theory, which he
has often aired to me in conversation,
that the illustrators “destroyed” Steele
Rudd: they presented him with a set
of farcical characters, and after “On
Our Selection” he wrote farcically to
keep in step.
That I think, is a true bill. There is
no doubt that, after “On Our
Selection,” which essentially is as
(I Continued on page 58)
TO A COUNTRY TOWN
All hail thou pinnacle of civilisation.
Thou fairest flower of this fairest
nation —
Through five millennia and more
Sages thought
Mechanics wrought
To bring together this pub, this general-
store,
This agglomeration of timber and iron
Gashed with gravel and called a town.
QUEENSLAND.
R. E. HAY.


There are few industries not served by DAVID BROWN products
DAVID
BROWN
and the
Jodrell Bank
Telescope
The Foundries Division of David Brown cast the bearing housings in which the 250' diameter
paraboloid reflector is set and General Gear Division, Park Works, manufactured the final driving
gears which enable the 2,000-ton structure to be revolved with minute precision and control
around the circular track of 360' diameter.
The new radio telescope at the Jodrell Bank Experimental Station, Cheshire, is the largest and only
automatically steerable radio telescope in existence, reaching out into space a distance of 1,000 million light
years. One notable performance to date has been the tracking of the satellites Sputnik I and Sputnik II in their
orbits around the earth. The telescope in itself is a marvellous feat of construction and one in which
David Brown played an important role, for whenever the telescope revolves or changes its position, it moves
in or by means of components made within the David Brown organisation.
In the farming field David Brown also shows the way with a fine record of achievement and enterprise.
David Brown tractors are continually setting new standards of performance, power and economy, and thus
meet the needs of more farmers than any other tractor on the market. The range includes
18 wheeled and crawler models from 12 to 50 h.p. and over 60 matched implements. You
name the job—David Brown will do it.
w
NA
Mb
RAD ICON WORM REDUCERS
TURBINE GEAR UNITS
HELICAL SINGLE REDUCING OR INCREASING GEAR UNITS
HELICAL DOUBLE OR TRIFLE REDUCING GEAR UNITS
ROLLING MILL. MINE WINDING. TUBE MILL AND
HAULAGE GEAR DRIVES
LOCOMOTIVE. RAILCAR AND
TRAMCAR AXLE UNITS
MARINE DRIVES
SPIRAL BEVEL UNITS
AUTOMOBILE AND COMMERCIAL VEHICLE GEARBOXES .
PATENTED WORM GEARS
GEARS OF ALL TYPES .
ROLOID GEAR PUMPS
COVENTRY GEARED MOTORS I
KEIGHLEY STOCK SPUR GEARS
PROFILE GROUND HOBS AND GEAR GENERATING CUTTERS
PATENTED FLOATING REAMERS
COVENTRY GEAR OIVtSI.QN.
COVENTRY /.
TRACTOR DIVISION •
meitWam. Huddersfield
FOUNDRIES OIWSIbN 1
VE-NISTO.NE. NEAR SHEFFIELD
THE DAVID BROWN GROUP OF COMPANIES
<U'TOMOBH.E
*■■HUObeAsHELO >
harrison. mcgregor & guest.
LTD,
"tEfGH. LANCS..
©fcA|l DIVISION
; ■ -v.HUdDERS , H€U>
“MACHINE TO6C DIVISION
’'MANCHESTER
TRACTOR DIVISION.
SCOTTISH BRANCH
'•^;WIN.BORSH
‘JIGS i FIXTURES
GEM JESTING EQUIPMENT
IHYDRAX PRODUCTION GEAR MOBBING MACHINE
SPUR AND HELICAL GEAR AND SPUNE MOBBING
MACHINES
GEAR SHAVING MACHINES
RELIEVING LATHE
ALLOY AND CARBON STEEL CASTINGS
AIRCRAFT STEEL CASTINGS
AIRCRAFT QUALITY STEEL CASTINGS
PRECISION CASTINGS
TAURUS BRONZE CASTINGS
HEAVY DUTY GEARS
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL TRACTORS
INDUSTRIAL AND MARINE ENGINES
FMMING IMPLEMENTS
ASTON MARTIN CARS
LAGONDA CARS
DAVID BROWN (A/ASIA) PTY. LIMITED
Cnr. Derby and Wet he rill Streets, Lidcombe, N,S. W.
Australian associate of the world-famous DAVID BROWN GROUP OF COMPANIES
DB2O.FP


The Bulletin
Wednesday, January IS, 1958
Vol. 79—No. 4066
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
EDUCATION
THE current outcry about the advanced
state of Russian scientific education
and the lack of similar education in
British-speaking countries may not
have all the implications it seems to
warrant. Yet there is plenty of room
for misgiving about education in
general in Australia, at any rate.
State and Federal Governments
alike roll out the money for “educa-
tion” on a vast scale. Scholarships are
becoming numerous. Classes both in
schools and universities become larger
and larger. More and more mechanised
and scientific aids, more modern
schools and more diverse courses, are
provided.
But it is singular that standards do
not improve. The basic idea seems
to be regimentation in some form or
other. Whole crowds rush to be doctors,
economists or something which has a
degree or a diploma attached to it; but
the approach seems to be wrong in
many cases. Too often it is the degree
and the social status and opportunity
that attach to it which matter, not the
nature of the qualifications and the
training to be able to think and to
plan and to do.
Every year’s-end the wail of batches
of young folk who have been failed
by examiners rises in the summer air;
and every year’s-beginning there is the
wail of those who have not failed and
have discovered—what is symptomatic
of the basic essential failure of the
system —that to be a B.Sc. or a
diploma’d gemmologist is not enough.
The idea that a graduate is qualified
for a gilt-edged job—an idea not
confined to graduates—is all too
prevalent, and is about as dangerous
as the more practical idea that it is
almost as profitable, or more so, to
drive a heavy truck, which can bring
a wage of £5O a week, or do laboring
work for a council under the shelter
of the right union, which calls for no
education at all, but which can be a
very lucrative occupation indeed if the
union-organiser is well versed in the
laws governing overtime and loaf.
The provision of education (though
possibly the taxpayer does not yet
realise it) has become one of the biggest
businesses of State Governments, and
the teachers have become the strongest
pressure-groups in the State civil
services, all round nearly the best paid,
the most infiltrated with Leftism, and
the strongest influence in developing
laxity and regimentation of thought in
the community.
This is not always the product of
conscious effort but of industrial
conditions on the teaching profession—
of the elimination of the old selfless
devotion to their ar( which at one time
characterised teachers as a class, their
love of the game and of children being
as potent a reward as the pay.
Under the tutelage of a Leftist
leadership in some States such as
N.S.W., with Communists openly
active, it isn’t surprising that the
theory has grown - up among the
younger teachers that teaching is
just another unionised job in which as
little as possible shall be given for the
pay received, and work used as an
opportunity for promotion of the
class-war.
The result all round is more
regimented education, soaked with
submerged political trends: more
superficial education, less discipline
(discipline being accounted cruel if
imposed physically), and an underlying
admission that a child is a tender
flower which must not be soiled by
too-hard compulsion or prevented from
displaying its natural tendencies.
The ambition for higher education
has grown with the growth of prosperity
to such an extent that high schools
have to be rationed, in many cases, to
children of supposed scholarship levels,
and the universities have fruitlessly
tried to put a brake on the rush by
raising the matriculation age—without
raising the standard or improving the
selection of subjects lengthening
degree courses and filling them with
bunkers. But the flood keeps pouring
through the holes in the dyke largely
into the teaching services.
It is a striking fact that outside the
professional scientific, engineering and
medical faculties, universities now exist
largely to churn-out schoolteachers.
And though N.S.W. spends £8,000,000
a year out of a total public-service
salary-bill (excluding transport) of
million, and other States are in
much the same position, there is the
constant cry that there are not enough
teachers, that the profession is not well
enough paid, the classes are too large.
Also, the home-life of the children
whose parents live in flats and both
work and leave them to roam the streets
after school at their own sweet will is
not conducive to proper school-work,
health or a right outlook on life.
The gross vandalism which has run
like a wave through Sydney, desecra-
ting graves, smashing - up school-
buildings, destroying properties and
defacing public vehicles in a wanton
manner is all evidence of failure in
basic essentials.
It is difficult to suggest a remedy. It
can be only achieved by better
discipline and more individual and
inspiring instruction, which is becom-
ing less and less possible as the teach-
ing profession becomes more and more
industrialised and politicalised and
teachers in general—there are many
splendid exceptions—think more about
their “conditions” and pay than about
their pupils and results.
There is ground for arguing in favor
of reducing the facilities for so-called
higher education and channelling more
children to early apprenticeships. And
there is strong ground to argue for
decentralisation and localised compe-
tition in education.
The British county and borough
system is a sound one, and obviously
gets better results than the Australian
State system. There each locality,
under national subsidy and overall
supervision of standards alone, devises
its education to suit its local conditions
from university downwards. This
certainly results in vigorous local
competition and in the production of
individuality of school and system suit-
able to the trends and needs of the
area within which particular authorities
operate.
There are other weaknesses which
decentralisation might not be able to
cure.
In Australia before it is possible to
do anything there needs to be a greater
weight of public opinion which realises
the value of actual education as
opposed to paper-qualification; a
greater encouragement of research
and real ingenuity and considerably
lighter emphasis on churning out
battalions of hoods and gowns.
The development of extensive
research-laboratories, in which Aus-
tralia is so weak, might start trends on
the scientific and industrial side which
would revolutionise Australian educa-
tion if chances were given to enough
students to work in them. The few
young Australians who are choice
enough to reach the laboratories and
research-centres in Australia are shining
examples of what Australian brain and
initiative can achieve when it gets the
chance.
But they also provide shining proof
that most of them can only find their
real opportunities by settling-down
overseas, where they in time cease to
be Australians. Cambridge and the
great research-centres of the United
Kingdom are full of these expatriates.


INTERCONTINENTAL MISSILE


PLAIN ENGLISH
"Not Morocco or Tunisia"
British policy in the last few days has
shown a striking cleavage from that of
the United States, and the difference
affects the whole of Europe. It is a pity
that this has developed in the way it has
at a moment when there is a split in the
Conservative party due to domestic
financial policy. At the same time, it is
healthy to see that the British line has
ceased to follow American policy so
readily, and that both the United King-
dom and Canada are beginning to
exhibit an individuality of their own.
Mr. Macmillan’s decision to discuss
peace with a prospective enemy is as
right as Mr. Chamberlain’s was in 1938,
though he may get as little credit for it.
As Arthur Bryant’s work on Field-Mar-
shal Lord Alanbrooke shows, the precious
time gained by Chamberlain through his
talks with Hitler before the war and the
stalemate period which followed the out-
break of war, and at which Americans
sneered so loudly, probably saved both
Britain and the world.
At the beginning of the Munich
negotiations, when every yellow editor
and every Communist was howling that
civilisation was being betrayed by
Chamberlain, that he was a murderer for
bargaining with the Fascist Beast (shortly
afterwards the ally of those most opposed
to Chamberlain), the U.K. had five
Hurricane and no Spitfire squadrons
opposed to 1500 front-line German
bombers too fast for interception by the
U.K.’s obsolescent wooden biplanes.
English cities would have been consumed
alive by fire if the “smash Hitler” critics
had had their way. In fact, as Bryant,
echoing Alanbrooke, says, there was
“nothing to prevent the industrial towns
being subjected to the same uninterrupted
day-bombing that later destroyed Warsaw
and Rotterdam.”
But by mid-1940, when the need arose
to repel a German attack, the supposedly
slothful Chamberlain Government being
mainly responsible for the change, the
Luftwaffe, with only 100 more frcrnt-line
bombers than it had in 1938, was called
on to “defeat a force of 49 modern Spitfire
and Hurricane squadrons whose mobility
had been increased out of all measure by
the creation of a radar network round
the coasts.” And Goering found he
could not do it.
Time is always an asset to democracies
in negotiation with arming tyrants, and
so is the will to negotiate to the last gasp
—provided it is backed by growing
strength and a grasp of realities.
Mr. Macmillan has made no secret of
his opinion of the facial appearance of
the Kremlin’s outlook, but when the
Kremlin persists in its appeal for further
talk he sees no harm in exploring.
Mr. Dulles’s dogmatic public state-
ment on January 9 about the “futility of
further conversations with the Russians
at high level,” and that “until there are
further indications of performance by
the Russians high-level conferences with
them are useless,” are combined with an
attitude of growing U.S. conceit and
arrogance and with a cunning shift by
Moscow to appear to be going in the
other direction towards conciliation and
a policy of benignity.
Mr. Dulles’s statements were linked
with his assertion that he had gone to
the Baghdad Conference because he
thought the members would “get a great
lift out of my presence.”
His policy is not accepted by every
American in authority, and there is said
to be sharp conflict between him and Mr.
Stassen, who is President Eisenhower’s
leading adviser on disarmament and
represented him at the London talks last
year.
On January 3 Mr. Sidney Smith,
Canadian Minister for Foreign Affairs,
declared that the U.S. decision “to cut
Canadian oil exports to the Pacific north-
west and U.S. barter methods to dispose
of wheat were examples of growing
tension betwen Canada and the United
DIVIDED, WE
MUCK ABOUT—page 36
States”; that he was worried about lack
of co-operation by U.S. officials ; and he
added: —
I do wish they would recognise to a
greater extent that Canada is not Morocco
or Tunisia but a neighbor which has
paid its own shot.
Mr. Dulles, and to a large extent the
U.S. Government, appears to regard the
whole of the rest of the world, and
especially the British Commonwealth, as
a Tunisia or Morocco.
The future of world co-operation, and
perhaps of world freedom, may depend
on his being disillusioned.
White in the Antarctic
Osmar White, one of Australia’s top-
flight newspapermen, has been allotted an
assignment that is bound to give him
cold feet. A senior feature-writer with
the Melbourne “Herald,” White is on
board the polar ship Thala Dan now
nosing its way into icy southern waters.
The Thala Dan is making a 10,000-
miles southern journey to Australia’s bases
in the Antarctic. The ship is carrying 37
scientists and service-staff who will spend
12 months in isolation at Davis and
Maw.son, our scientific bases on the
Antarctic coastline. If there is time the
ship will pay courtesy-visits to the
American and Russian bases.
White’s accounts of life in the
Antarctic will be published in all Aus-
tralian dailies. He was nominated for
the trip by the Australian Newspapers’
Council and the Newspaper Proprietors’
Association.
The Minister for External Affairs
Casey described White’s appointment as
a big step in bringing to the public the
work being done by Australia’s pioneers
in the Antarctic.
White was born in New Zealand in
1909. He was a leading war-corres-
pondent in the Second World War,
covering both the Pacific and European
battlefronts. Since the war he has
travelled extensively throughout Australia
and abroad for his paper.
No Melbourne Jackpot
Had three politicians not had a last-
minute twinge of conscience, Melbourne
would now have a jackpot-tote, too.
The Bolte Government decided late
last year to bring down a bill to establish
a jackpot-tote at the three metropolitan
racecourses.
The minority Country party, which
holds the balance of power in Victoria’s
Upper House, was quick to offer its
support. The C.P. leader, Sir Herbert
Hyland, is a keen racegoer and a trustee
of Caulfield racecourse.
But at the eleventh hour three C.P.
Upper House members got cold feet.
They were given permission by the party
to cast a “conscience vote.”
The bill, which was sought by the race-
clubs in an effort to boost dwindling
attendances, was doomed from that
moment.
It was lost on a division on the floor
of the House by 18 votes to 14, with
the three C.P. “rebels” voting with Labor
and Democratic Labor. A fourth C.P.
man, former Health Minister Fulton,
was absent when the vote was taken.
Suggestions at the time that the bill
would be revived after the State elections
in May (Legislative Assembly) and June
(Legislative Council) have now been
quietly forgotten.
Dr. Irving Benson, outspoken
Methodist preacher, is leading the chorus
of protest against the paganism of the
Sydney jackpot-tote. It must not happen
in Melbourne, he says.
And in racing circles they admit,
glumly, that he’s on a sure thing.
No Good Faith
Dr. Soekarno, who allegedly was going
abroad for his health, actually appears
to be touring for political purposes, visit-
ing States in which he thinks he may
obtain help or support, while leaving
behind a country which has become
subject to dictatorship by the Army—
where the Army is strong enough to
dictate.
The Indonesian “Government” seems
to have abandoned all pretence of over-
all authority. It has become a sort of
political nebula, intangible, a thing which
permeates the social and economic life of
Indonesia like a fog but which has neither
hands to do nor feet to move.
When it speaks the voice seems to
come out of a rather angry cloud, but
there is no sign of its doing anything
except allow the military, Communists,
rebels of several brands, and, in fact,
seemingly every kind of element which is
not Dutch, to pass through its field of


authority and commit lawless acts some-
times even in its name, for which it
claims not to be responsible but with
which it does not interfere, and often
openly endorses.
The formation of “unofficial” military
units in Indonesia to “liberate” Western
New Guinea from the Dutch, about which
so many various voices speak in Djakarta,
is a trick which Java obviously has learnt
from the Communists.
It seems to follow the technique of
the Chinese in Korea. Theoretically the
illiterate Chinese peasants, by tens of
thousands, became so indignant at the
brutal aggression of the South Koreans
and the U.N. forces that they left their
farms, their obligations to the Com-
munist State, not to mention their wives
and families, and padded up hurriedly to
the North Korean front.
And there they arrived fully armed,
fully trained, officered and ready to fit
into organised divisions with arms and
artillery divisions in support, all supplied
by a divine Providence.
However, it appears that the Javanese
people who are forming the “liberation
units,” though “not aggressive,” are
largely composed of demobilised guerrillas
who had fought the Dutch in 1947-48.”
And Dr. Helmi, the Indonesian Am-
bassador at Canberra., feels that they
will not fight Australians because there
is “a total absence of ill-will towards
Australians,” because Indonesians will
never forget that Australia —by which he
means people like Dr. Evatt, Mr. Ward
and Mr. Healy of the Watersiders —
“strongly supported us against the Dutch
after the war.” He fails to say that by
way of reward “we,” the Indonesians,
wantonly murdered some Australians
who were engaged on errands of mercy
in Indonesia, as they had previously dealt
with survivors from H.M.A.S. Perth.
He further failed to deal fully with
the implications of his announcement that
Polish and Yugoslav shipping would be
used as part of the process of “pressing
on with the complete liquidation of Dutch
economic interests”—the liquidation, of
course, being done by unofficial groups
of Communists and the military—“and
would refuse even to talk about any com-
pensation until Holland agreed to
negotiate on West New Guinea.”
This statement surely places Indonesia
outside the pale of civilised and law-
abiding nations. It is immoral, black-
mailing and disingenuous in view of the
fact that the Netherlands has all along
been ready to negotiate.
Wells and Garrett
The Australian Chief of the General Staff,
Lt.-General Sir Henry Wells, has just
conducted his last annual exercise for
senior Army-officers. The veteran soldier
retires in March after a lifetime of service
to his country.
He will be succeeded by Lt.-General
A. R. Garrett, now general-officer-com-
manding Southern Command.
The annual exercise for top-ranking
officers has been held at Queenscliff, near
Geelong, each year since 1950. It sets
the pattern of higher training for the
year.
Wells got his taste for soldiering as a
cadet in the company of the 66th Cadet
Battalion, raised at Kyneton, Victoria.
Graduating from the Royal Military
College in 1919, he became a lieutenant
in the Australian Light Horse.
As a Lt.-Colonel, Wells took the Aus-
tralian advance-party to Greece in the
Second World War and served through-
out the Greek campaign. This service
earned him an 0.8. E.
Later he served throughout the Western
Destert campaign up to El Alamein. This
time the D.S.O.
In 1943 he was promoted Brigadier and
saw the remainder of the war out in New
Guinea and Borneo. He became a
Major-General in 1946 and in 1952 rose
to Lt.-General, when he replaced Lt.-
General Sir Horace (“Red Robbie”)
Robertson as Commander of British
Commonwealth Forces in Korea.
Garrett, who will succeed Wells, is 57
and a former Indian Army officer. After
graduating from Duntroon in 1921 he
served with the Queen’s Bays Cavalry
Regiment, Indian Army. Today he still
loves the cavalry, but admits sadly that
the horse has had its day in warfare.
Garrett debunks the idea that the Aus-
tralian is a natural or born soldier. This
he describes as a “lot of bilge.” Only
hard and continuous training, he says,
will make good soldiers.
During the last war Garrett, like Wells,
served in Greece and the Middle East.
He went to Japan as principal administra-
ting officer for the British Commonwealth
Occupation Forces. Since 1954 he has
been general - officer - commanding
Southern Command.
A New University
The decision of the Cahill Government,
announced by Mr. Heffron when opening
a new medical school, to change the name
and nature of the N.S.W. University of
Technology represents a bowing to the
inevitable.
In conception, the University of
Technology was neither university nor
technical college, but aspired to be a sort
of hermaphrodite with the main job of
providing qualifications and certificates
of proficiency, if not prowess, in the
engineering and scientific professions.
Its sponsors were determined that its
graduates should have “culture,” so much
prized by the extreme Left as a social
asset, but not too much. Therefore a
year’s course in the humanities was pre-
scribed, without giving thought to the
fact that it could not be expected that
first-class professors and lecturers would
remain in faculties in which there were
not degree-courses.
One of the results was that some of
the very best men who decided to remain
elected to leave the central college and
go to Newcastle branch college where they
would handle the degree courses of
students attached to New England
University. The curious situation exists
that the senior of the Faculty of Humani-
ties at the University of Technology lives
in Newcastle.
The change is salutary. A second
university covering the ordinary faculties
is badly needed. Sydney University has
suffered from overcrowding, staff-
shortages and building-shortages, all be-
coming progressively worse as prosperity
and the fashion for higher education lifted
its membership to more than three times
its pre-war level.
There will be little complaint at
Camperdown about the new move, but it
would be healthy if some arrangement
were come to for specialisation as be-
tween the two universities so that one
should put its main emphasis on some
departments and the other on others
while maintaining reasonable standards
throughout the normal branches of uni-
versity education.
It is time, also, that a policy of decen-
tralisation by the establishment of country
universities was laid down.
We are poorly off compared with
Canada.
The political outcry from the
Opposition in N.S.W. about the
change at Camperdown is short-
sighted. To say that the mere naming of
a university “University of N. S. Wales”
renders it senior over one of the oldest
and greatest universities in the British
Commonwealth —Sydney is older than
any of the universities of England save
Oxford, Cambridge, Durham and London
—is ridiculous.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
OVERHEARD in the train en
route to the summer sales: “You
know, dear, I’m ever so worried about
Bev.; she isn’t turning out like either of
her sisters. They used to get nylons and
chocolates and perfume and hankies for
Christmas presents. But Bev.! Nothing
but Gorgeous Gussies!” —“Narumee.”
❖ * *
“Mugga Way”: For one long-absent
from his home-town of Melbourne, it
was instructive to find, during a Christ-
mas visit, some of the small things which
help the place to remain comparatively
civilised. Amenities noticed included
racks in hotel-bars for the bags and hats
of customers, as well as ledges at
convenient heights for those drinkers who
like to move out of the crowd. In the
streets there are good warning-signs for
the obedient pedestrians (large and clear
markings on the ground in addition to
the new traffic-lights). Then there is the
courtesy on the footpaths as a result of
good drilling, or good manners, or both.
The streets were pleasantly decorated by
the City Council. There were few traffic-
blocks, even on the busy days. Yet it
was a shock to find barmaids had replaced
barmen in Chloe’s bar in Young and
Jackson’s, and that a lot of women, as
well as some children, visited the bar to
see the famous nude.
*2*
“Bird”: An advertisement for a book-
club lists books under the headings
“Romance,” “Detective,” “Western,” and
“Literary.” “Literary” includes Somerset
Maugham, Frances Parkinson Keyes,
Paul Brickhill, Thomas Armstrong, etc.;
so maybe literature isn’t so forbidding as
the professors make it out to be.
♦♦♦ +*♦
“Y. Mee”: Yes, there seem to be
privileges to which permanent guests are a
wake-up (B. 1/1 / ’5B). When my girl-
friend Big Liz years ago begged Isaacs,
S.M., to alter her sentence (as a habitual
drunk) of three months’ light labor in
Biloela jail to one of hard labor, I asked
her how come. Lizzie explained that the
girls doing light labor did very poorly in
the ration line, whereas ladies doing
“hard” got square meals, including meat,
to sustain them during the onerous
blanket-washing, a perpetual activity of
that health-resort on Cockatoo Island in
the early century, and a task to which
Elizabeth had served a long apprentice-
ship. I might conclude that when Francis
Sherriff Isaacs refused Liz’s request, she
shook her fist at him and yelled “You
bloody Jew!” to which, rising and
bowing, he replied “Adieu, madame.
Take her away, constable ..But what a
laundress Liz was: and at six-bob a day!
Our family missed her when she went into
retirement.
♦2* ***
“Sevenelms”: On Army pay-days the
only reference to the eagle, the
American national bird, was scatological,
so it may ill behove us to be thin-skinned
about our kangaroo (B. l/l/’5B). The
ability of the ’roo to bound suddenly in
any unpredictable direction probably
excuses his increasing use by cartoonists
in the U.S. as the symbol of either infla-
tion or deflation ; and this is not the first
time our national animal has been linked
with something unadmirable in the land
of the Almighty Dollar —internal gangster-
rule in penitentiaries is maintained by
cliques for some obscure reason termed
“kangaroo courts.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ceg”: On judicial ignorance of col-
loquial phrases (B. 1/1 / ’5B), I seem to
recall a case where a woman witness was
explaining in great detail how she was
steering a pram around a “silent cop”
when the accident happened. “Silent
cop?” said the judge. “I cannot permit
such expressions in my court, the witness
will please use understandable language.”
The poor witness, after some prompting
from her counsel, resumed her evidence.
“Well, your Honor, I was wheeling me
pram round the copulator when the car
’it me.” Anyway, what should she have
called it?
❖ ♦> ♦>
“Metax”: Top marks for the most in-
expensive educational idea in this season’s
speech-nights goes to a Speck headmaster
who suggests that many pupils would
benefit from going to bed earlier.
“Uncle s hard to entertain."
OH, DEM GOLDEN SLIPPERS!
My heart is like a singing bird
Whose nest is in a watered shoot;
My heart is like an apple-tree
Whose boughs are bent with thickset
fruit;
My heart is like a rainbow shell
That paddles in a halcyon sea ;
My heart is gladder than all these
Because I’m going on TV.
Raise me a dais of silk and down ;
Hang it with vair and purple dies;
Carve it with doves, and pomegranates,
And peacocks with a hundred eyes ;
Work it in gold and silver grapes,
In leaves, and silver fleurs-de-lis —
Don’t cheesepare with the background,
boys,
Because I’m going on TV ._
Buy me a dozen London suits
Whose waistlines hug until they hurt ;
Get me a gross of gorgeous ties;
Drape me in sheen of silken shirt;
Replace my gold-embroidered teeth
With pearls of subtle dentistry ;
Give me a white and lily smile
Because I’m going on TV.
Barber my hair; shampoo my wig
Into a surf of twinkling waves;
Pencil my eyes as vistas seen
Betwen Da Vinci architraves ;
Cover my face with make-up, till
1 look like anyone but me —
It’s better so for all concerned
Because I’m going on TV.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


A FTER evidence had been given at
Newcastle Court in a case in which a
migrant was charged with having com-
mitted a breach of traffic-regulations, the
magistrate (Mr. F. H. Horsington) asked
him: “Do you wish to tell me anything?”
“Yes,” replied the migrant. “What do
you wish to say?” the magistrate said.
“I will pay,” said the migrant. —“J.T.”
“R.McC.”: Phil Lindsay didn’t pose as
a poet, but those who do might well envy
him a little piece in the “London Aphro-
dite,” once seen never forgotten:
You say that you love me;
Well, prove it, then —
Give in; let me become
God among m£n.
But dammit, you’re hopeless!
All you can do
Is move away when I come
Closer to you.
❖ <♦
“Narumee”: In a “Wine and Food”
number of London’s “Time and Tide”
almost every country in the world is
mentioned as supplying some delicacy or
essential foodstuff to Britain; prawns
from Morocco, fowls from Rumania, and
foie-gras from Czechoslovakia. We figure
once, as follows:
As for fats, it is well-known that butter
is produced by New Zealand, Australia,
Holland, Denmark and France.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Roger Mike”: The price of bread in
W.A. has increased by a halfpenny a loaf,
the price of the half-loaf remaining the
same. Mrs. X. objected strongly. “Two-
and-eight for two loaves! 1 won’t pay it,”
she snapped at the baker. “Halves
haven’t gone up. Give me four of them
instead! ” And she huffed out of the shop,
leaving the right change on the counter —-
exactly 2s. Bd.
♦j* «j»- ♦}>
“Dolphin”: At our cinema they
had lined-up a midnight horror-
programme to welcome the New Year.
Asked the usher if it was a good horror
show. He surveyed the queues of teen-
agers waiting, with much noise and
cavorting, to buy tickets. “Well, they’re
g better show of horrors,” he replied.
Taking his word for it, I went home and
spent a pleasant hour reading the old
year out.
“Tom Trout”: Incredible a few years
ago, but now it seems a new playwright
has a better chance of production in Aus-
tralia than in many-theatred England!
London “Observer” has reported that, of
the seven placed plays in its competition
in which Richard Beynon shared third
place, only his “The Shifting Heart,” in
its Australian production, has yet
achieved a run. Of the two other-third-
prize winners, one is promised a London
showing in the spring, the other has been
seen for one night in a production with-
out scenery. First and second prize-takers
were acquired by two of the largest Lon-
don entrepreneurs, but are still without
any sign of impending production. The
"It's just a Waste of time Wearing our daring new creations on this beach.”
one says of his acquisition that it will be
“awfully difficult to cast” ; the other of
his that it will be “terribly difficult to
cast.” With this unanimity of inaction,
“The Shifting Hear!” may yet show the
way in the West End, too!
* ♦>
“J.J.A.”: Reference to the quality of
Australian-made toys (B. 25 /12/’57) is
well merited. On such things as toy cars
and wheelbarrows (Santa bought my
children one of each, so 1 can speak
authoritatively) the tinplate seems to be
20- or 22-gauge. On real cars and real
wheelbarrows the manufacturers seldom
ever use heavier than 26-gauge.
*i*
“Q. Ree”: Quite a few centres in Fiji
held carols by candlelight. In our own
small community six Fijian church choirs
led the singing, though, as they were
mostly hymns sung in Fijian, there wasn’t
as much audience-participation as
appreciation. The European children
didn’t care much about the Fijian
hymns, but they had a wow of a time
with the candles.
“Eejaypee”: Calendars are getting
sillier and sillier. My insurance co. has
come to light with a real beaut, this time.
Size has been cut down to by 1 lin.;
total area 104| sq. in. Of this a large
1958 (quite unimportant) takes up almost
one-third (33 sq. in.), the name and
addresses use up 28 sq. in., with borders
and other waste \l\ sq. in. The doings
are squeezed so tightly into 36 sq. in.
that I need reading-glasses to see the date.
I’m thinking of taking out an insurance
against having to buy my own calendar
next year.
* * *
“P.0.M.C.”: Burgundy might be a
delectable complement to a barbecue (of,
presumably, red meats) but certainly not
“perfect” (B. 1/1 / ’5B) the perfect
complement is claret. Washing, say,
' grilled chops into the average paunch
with burgundy is a trifle extravagant and
asks for indigestion, but claret is both
right and righteous ; aesthetically and in
its effect on the touchiest stomach.
*** +> ❖
“Phil Anthus”: Arthur O’Connor’s
praise of Melbourne at the expense of
various American cities (B. 1/1 / ’5B) took
me back to days spent with the late Prof.
S: B. J. Skertchly in the Southport (Q.)
outpost of Meyer’s Ferry. He was a
top-rating geologist and of infinite jest,
and we used to enjoy the old man’s
reminiscences of his friends Darwin,
T. H. Huxley and Lyell, and his crisp
comments on the need for Australians to
stand on their own feet. The home to


which he’d retired had only a sprinkling
of inhabitants drowsing in their Old
World gardens ; near by was the Nerang
River, fringed by a heavy growth of
mangroves that reached down to a long,
mostly-vacant stretch of sandy beach.
Then —about 40 years ago —one could
have bought pretty well the whole of that
beach-fronting expanse for a few hundred
pounds. But when I returned to it a year
or two ago I found it a garish tourist-
resort garnished with names lifted from
the Riviera, Honolulu and Florida. Yes,
the once-tranquil Meyer’s Ferry is now
Surfer’s Paradise —with little congeni-
ality in its tinsel and its blatant labels
thieved from other countries for the ghost
of that good Australian, S. B. J. Skertchly.
♦♦♦ ***
“Tidak Makan”: “Pip Tok” (B.
25/12/’57) on “Lord” Manning reminded
me of a photograph of a Digger appear-
"Congratulate me, love! Wally Grimsby's asked me to be his de-facto!"
ing in a Singapore illustrated magazine in
1941. The setting was Tobruk and the
Digger was shown sitting-down peering
over the acres of barbed-wire. The
caption read, “Private, the Earl of
Waverley, A.1.F., on sentry duty.” The
mystery was cleared-up a few weeks later
when a copy of the “S.M.H.” arrived with
the same photograph reproduced, but the
caption reading, “Private Earl, of
Waverley....” Nine Div. might have had
a lot of things to boast about, but they
certainly didn’t have a real live Earl.
* * *
“Alma”: Hotel-porters in Europe (B.
25/12/ ’57) do more than speak a selec-
tion of languages ; they also solicit trade,
hanging about until they see someone
looking suitably touristy and impression-
able, and then going after them
to recommend their pub, or in
some cases restaurant. One such
had a thin reception from us In
Sorrento, when he panted after us
to ask us if we would like a “nice cup of
English tea.” Whatinthell did he expect
of five perspiring women, laboriously
pushing 27cwt. of stalled London taxi
up a steep hill?
♦X*
“Eliza”: New Year resolutions of a
neighboring divorcee: find herself a hus-
band ; learn to drive a car and become
more tolerant. She didn’t seem pleased
when I pointed out that the last should
be first.
❖ ❖ »!♦
“Tom Trout”: With New Australians
bringing new customs (suitably modified
to old Australian tastes), I look to the day
“Sister Ellell” and her ministering-angel
colleagues will be handing out foaming
schooners. In my Italian ospidale
morning and evening beverage was caffe e
latte, but at midday the nun brought
round a large tumbler of vino bianco.
To tell the truth, it tasted like something
concocted in the hospital lab., and made
me yearn for a little South Aus. or Hunter
River, but the thought was therapeutic!
❖ ❖ ❖
“Mugga Way” : Having been .among
the visitors to Melbourne who preferred
to watch the tennis in comfort on the
simultaneous TV, with its close-ups of
shots and players, I wonder how long
some 20,000 or so will continue to sit
in discomfort at Davis Cup matches. It
was interesting in the evening to com-
pare notes with the weary and sunburnt
ones who had mostly had a birds’-eye
view of distant figures, without even the
benefit of a radio-commentary (spectators
were warned they would be ejected if they
took a radio-set). Even field-glasses
would not give the close-ups possible
with TV, and the only thing missing was
the thrill of actually being present at an
international spectacle. When footfaults
were called the cameras switched to the
feet of the man serving, and all incidents
were followed faithfully by competent
cameramen. It will be TV for me in
future, for tennis at least. Perhaps the
contrast will persuade the authorities to
give cash-paying seat-takers a more
comfortable deal in future.
♦> ♦>
“Selimat”: Doctor Springthorpe (B.
1/1 / ’5B) wasn’t deaf in the days I
first saw him on the hospital-ship Gascon
bringing the first wounded Anzacs back
from Gallipoli. On arrival at Alexandria
English medical-orderlies and stretcher-
bearers stared open-mouthed at the gory,
bandaged Australians with several days’
growth of beard. Approaching Colonel
Springthorpe one of the orderlies in his
slow Lancashire drawl asked, “Have you
been fighting?” “No,” snapped the
colonel. “We’ve been to a bloody foot-
ball-match ! ”
ON THE HOOK
“A missionary returned to Singapore from
remote parts 6f Borneo reports that aspects of
the speeding-up of life there under Western
influence includes quicker means of purchasing
wives. The old values are being replaced; a
wife now is worth two of the latest fishing-lines.”
In days gone by the Borneo buck
Who by the pangs of love was struck
Would put a missus on the lay-by,
Making deposit of one pig.
Taro and yams he then would dig
As the instalments he could pay by.
If he got lazy, “took the knock,”
His girl was put back into stock.
But were he one who wouldn’t stint rest,
Working assiduously his patch,
The sooner would he strike his match.
In either case they paid no int’rest.
For lethargy and ennui then
Most Bornean dwellers had a yen ;
Bargains were leisurely transacted.
Negotiations for a wife
Were studies, mostly, in still-life ;
For weeks the doings would be
protracted.
Every few days, though, they might
wake,
And counter-offer the swain would make,
Depending,. say, -on what she cooked
like.
Sometimes the bargaining went on
And on, till the intended one
Had nigh forgotten what she looked
like.
But love and commerce on that isle
Have speeded up in Western style ;
They even might employ our jargon
When settling snappily upon
Purchase or barter; when they con
The finer points of Cupid’s bargain.
The girl’s papa knows what he needs :
No pigs or paddles, shirts or tweeds
As purchase-price for beauteous
daughter;
Far better value is for him
A pair of nylons—not for limb,
But just to dangle in the water.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


A STORY IN A MILLION
By OLAF RUHEN
FOR weeks now I’ve been mulling
over an item which appeared in the
Sydney press, announcing that
yachts worth £178,000, or some
such considerable figure, were contest-
ing the Sydney-Hobart race.
The figure is a pure guess ; if the news-
paper (and I suspect it was the “Sun”)
came to a total other than mine, then
that was fortuitous. For what is a yacht
worth? By definition a yacht is a vessel,
machine- or wind-powered, of greater
length than 25ft. or so, but a vessel which
has never been used for trade or com-
merce.
(Therefore, of course, the sign “Yachts
for Hire,” which is sometimes displayed
on urban waterfronts, is misleading ; it
is a fraud, in fact; one cannot hire a
yacht, for, being hired, it has engaged in
trade or commerce and is no longer a
yacht, but a ship of some other descrip-
tion. The only exception I can think of
was the R.M.S. Gothic, which tempor-
arily became a yacht by Royal decree ;
and, even so, was only a yacht, I guess,
by courtesy.)
And no commodity on the market
varies so much in terms of financial value
as a yacht. For some, a yacht is worth
a lifetime of self-sacrifice ; many a worth-
less bachelor might have been a married
millionaire but for the value in which he
held his yacht ; many a wealthy owner
of a sleek new-launched beauty, at sea
for the first time, has immediately re-
valued. his purchase to something less
than nothing.
There is no criterion for the value of
a yacht, and so the significance of the
newspaper-item must rest upon other con-
siderations. For me, it lies in the
Formula. And lying thus, it heralds a
great day, a new era indeed, for the news-
paper cadet.
I’VE always been sorry for the news-
paper cadet, never haying been a
cadet myself. You take this lad or this
lass, well-educated (unable, certainly, to
spell, but capable of reading), bom into
a good family, a privileged lad (or lass)
whose very presence on a newspaper-staff
as often as not bespeaks a family influence
that could, perhaps, have been better
exerted. You take him, you arrange that
he attend staff-lectures, or perhaps even
the university; you provide him with
opportunities to rub shoulders with the
ineffable great; you give him the promise
of becoming a power in the community
—a columnist, perhaps, or a leader-writer
—and then what do you do? '
Right when he is at the peak of eager-
ness, while he still retains his literary
illusions, while he still believes in the
Power of the Press and the well-being
of the community, you send him to report
on events that are absolutely unreport-
able. You do, that is, if you are a chief-
of-staff.
The reasons for this are obvious and
inescapable. If you have in the book an
assignment from which news will be born
you cannot, of course, entrust it to the
hands of a tyro. Your most experienced
reporters go to the places where news is
most likely to break. This eager lad must
be sent where there is little or no possi-
bility of anything newsworthy happen-
ing; and for the sake of his future well-
being he must write a story about it.
That the_resultant effort is so weak as to
be absolutely useless is n 5 concern of
the chief-of-staff. At this stage the lad
is taken care of by the sub-editors, whq
promptly bawl him out for the weakness
of his story. A few weeks of this and,
failing an offer from public-relations, the
lad is prepared to write a story about
anything, and usually does.
When one of his efforts is deemed
usable he begins his scrapbook ; and he is
hardly to be blamed if the stories therein
are more noteworthy for the ingenuity
with which they were contrived than for
any relationship with the events which
inspired them.
npHE cadet, thus, has the hardest job on
A the paper.
The ace reporter, however, has the
easiest. Where he is sent, things happen.
Or if they don’t it doesn’t matter. Many
a war-correspondent has made a reputa-
tion on statements like: “This morning,
in bitter cold, I breakfasted on my K
rations,” Or: “I shared my sandwiches
with Quentin Reynolds, always on the
spot where the hazards are thickest” —a
good ploy this, one that can usually be
counted upon to bring a reciprocity of
compliments. -But the cadet can have
recourse to no such substitute for news,
That is, he didn’t have in my day. And,
being slow to catch on, I didn’t realise
until I saw the yachting story that the
Formula has solved all his problems,
This represents a magnificent advance in
journalism.
The signs were there. I should have
seen them. For four weeks the news-
papers reported daily upon the develop-
ment of the Christmas 'spirit: “Sydney
crowds will spend £3,000,000 tomorrow
in the biggest day’s shopping-spree on
record.” “Sydney crowds are expected
to spend £3,500,000 in eight hours today.”
“Sydney crowds will spend £4,000,000 in
what retailers confidently expect to be
the city’s greatest shopping-day.”
Story after story, day after day, telling
the public exactly, in good round figures,
the true meaning of an enthusiastic
Christmas, and backed-up by photographs
taken from a Market Street awning
showing record crowds. It has been the
same awning for 27 years ; maybe longer,
It has a window providing access for
photographers, and it overlooks the
narrow site where the crowds are banked-
up tQ record proport ions by traffic-police-
men, giving a similitude of a Show Day
crush even when there is only a light
attendance.
“Jingle Bells” to the newshound’s ear
j s the song of the cash-register. And the
whole season of Christmas can be
presented, as by the retail-stores, in a good
resounding figure.
But not only Christmas. Of late,
(Continued on page 49)


POLITICAL POINTS
Whilst one has to work —or try to work
—with politicians to know the qualities
and shortcomings of them individually, it
was refreshing in any case to hear of the
resignation of Peter Thorneycroft
(Chancellor of the Exchequer), Nigel
Birch (Economic Secretary to the
Treasury) and Enoch Powell (Financial
Secretary to the Treasury) on a vital
matter of principle, political and
economic. They jacked-up on the
Government’s proposal to spend more in
1958-59 notwithstanding its ostensible
anti-inflationary policy. The extra
involved is reputed to be only £5O million
in a Budget of £5OOO million ; but, after
all, that is the form creeping inflation
takes.
Economic firmness (and wisdom) has
been required of the present U.K.
Government almost more than anything
else, and the public have been prepared
for decisive action on several critical
occasions so long as action achieved
something ultimately. But the Govern-
ment has preferred, in the main, “to wait
for something to turn up.”
The parting words of Birch .were that
“the Treasury Ministers were out to win
the battle of inflation and the others were
not.” So few politicians really know
anything about inflation or economic
realities these days that those who do
face the facts of economic life forth-
rightly are invaluable, especially when
they get so little moral support from their
public-service advisers. The average
public servant (there are exceptions) is not
production-minded. Today every Western
country must be production-minded.
' Howard Beale leaves Sydney on Febru-
ary 5 for Washington, where he will
become Australian Ambassador, Percy
Spender having been appointed to the
International Court at The Hague.
Beale should get on well in the United
States. He is a good citizen, level-
headed, and easily approachable. It is
expected that Athol Townley will take
over Beale’s Supply and Defence Produc-
tion portfolios until Menzies completes
his reshuffle of the Cabinet later ; the
reshuffle, it is generally hoped, bringing
about a co-ordination of the Service
Ministries. Townley is at present
Minister for Immigration, and it is
expected he will remain so.
• •
It was straight off the ice for a while !,
* *-
• •
t
Australian wool exports for the five
months to November 30 were valued at
£l7l million, up £l2 million on the figures
for the same period of 1956. But the
volume shipped was 532-million lb., com-
pared with 505-million lb. It is expected
that the value of wool exports will soon
begin to fall in keeping with the consider-
able drop in prices at auction, and the
export value of wool for the final seven
months of the year is likely to be in sharp
contrast to the earlier figures.
Britain continues to head the list of
buyers ; it took in the
five months, followed closely by Japan
at £33-million-worth. France was close
behind with £2B million, Italy with £l7
million, Germany £l2 million, and Bel-
gium-Luxembourg £9£ million.
• •
Australia’s economy is better balanced
than that of N.Z. when it comes to
reverses in prices for primary products,
but the import-licensing move by N.Z.
so early in 1958 cannot be ignored among
the signs and portents. Australia is
“Mm-m-m-m... yes ... another case of TV-eyes.”
by no means as well balanced, between
primary and secondary industries, as is
Canada, nor as advanced in all-round
productivity.
Australia, during World War 11, was
given a food-producing and raw-
material-supplying role by its bigger
Allies, and certain industrial plant sup-
plied on lend-lease by the U.S.A. had
tight strings tied to its restricting or pre-
venting its peace-time use. Unfortunately
the Curtin and Chifley Governments
were more concerned with creating a
political and economic revolution within
Australia than they were with protecting
Australia’s industrial place among the
other countries on the Allied side.
• •
The expensive habit, developed during
the Petrov commission by Dr. Evatt and
his private secretary, of sending long
propaganda telegrams at public expense
hasn’t been checked by the Doctor’s
growing conviction that the country is
tumbling swiftly into economic ruin.
Perhaps the yellow paper used in
telegrams fascinates him.
• •
Every half-year or so, Victorian plans
for the State Electricity Commission
become bolder. Bolte has started off
1958 with a resolve to complete the
electrification of the State within the next
nine years.
The S.E.C. will spend (investors will-
ing, no doubt) £3OO million in this
period. The first of two generators, each
with double the output of the nation’s
largest generator at present, will be com-
missioned early in the 1960’s and the
second a year later.
The new opencut at Morwell will be
developed this year, and Morwell’s new
briquette-works will begin production
early next. In a month or two work
starts on the £ 19-million Yallourn E
power-station, which will add more than
200,000 kilowatts to the generating
system.
Eventually power-station output will be
doubled, production of briquettes trebled
and the output of brown coal, once
regarded as muck, also doubled.
• •
A profit of £lO million is expected
from the Commonwealth note-issue in
1957-58, much the same as in the pre-
ceding year. The notes are sold to the
trading-banks, and the receipts are
invested by the Note Issue Department
of the central bank in various income-
earning securities, as well as in “gold
and balances abroad.” During the year
to June 30, 1957, the profit of £lO million
was transferred, as to £143,000, to the
Commonwealth Trading Bank capital
account, £71,500 to the Rural Credits
Department, £142,500 to the Mortgage
Bank, £143,000 to the Industrial
Finance Department, and £7,865,937 to
the Commonwealth Treasury.


In the gambling controversy now raging
jn Sydney one of the favorite “arguments”
advanced is that people are attracted to
lotteries and big-prize totes as the only
chance they will ever have of escaping
from poverty. Yet the man who has
apparently benefited most from the jack-
pot-tote is a wealthy bookmaker, and the
£lOO,OOO prize in the Opera House Lottery
was won by a company-director who,
according to reports, wasn't even down
to his last yacht.
The most intriguing thing about Labor
Government encouragement of large-
scale gambling in N. S. Wales is that
although the party claims to stand for a
more equitable distribution of wealth the
effect of every gambling device it has
sponsored is to take money from the
many to give to the few.
• •
Breweries in N.S.W. were quick to
organise against the poker-machines
(vicious things as these are in “Leagues
Clubs” and the like in country towns),
but it was dough, not principle, that
prompted them. Likewise pubs v. clubs
over drinking facilities. Now there is the
uproar over the jackpot totes in N.S.W.
All such gambling encouragements are an
abomination where the State is already
oversupplied with incitements to gamble.
But again there are vested interests
affected. The licensed bookmaker and the
s.-p. merchant get nothing out of the
jackpot tote. And daily papers that serve
the s.-p. business miss out, too.
• •
Moscow diplomats are showing signs
of wanting to get back to the comforts
of Canberra. Moscow Foreign Office
says “the Kremlin wants good relations
with all countries,” and “the withdrawal
of the diplomatic mission did not amount
to a formal ending of diplomatic rela-
tions.” It didn’t. It amounted to a wild
rush to get out before the police arrived.
• •
The divergence of attitude on Russia
by Europe and the U.S. seems to be
widening. Russia has announced apparent
huge troop-cuts which are not real —
merely, apparently, liquidation of ageing
reserves—and has made an appeal for a
summit conference. Macmillan is
pressing on with his scheme for an East-
West non-aggression pact, for what it
is worth, and there is a British arms-cut
of £lOO million. On the other hand, in
his “state of tfie Union” speech, President
Eisenhower apparently has taken the
personal command of everything con-
nected with the development of strength
and will have nothing to d£> with talks
with Russia or with anybody else.
• •
Dr. Evatt faces opposition in his new
Hunter electorate from a disgruntled
A.L.P. commissar who alleges all sorts
of chicanery and rules-breaches in the
selection of the Great Liberal. So he
proposes to contest the seat as an inde-
pendent. If independents continue to
peel-off at the present rate the A.L.P.
will soon consist of a majority of one:
Dr. Evatt.
First, under the new N.S.W. education
system, it was handwriting that deterior-
ated. Now it is the writing of English,
by hand or by any other means.
• •
Somebody at a meeting to protest
against gambling in Sydney declared at
the weekend that Mr. Cahill was making
N.S:W. like Monte Carlo. The writ for
libel from Monte Carlo has not yet
arrived.
• •
As things are lagging in N.S.W. public
works generally, it would be of more
l enefit to the economy if a limit were
damped on Sydney water wasted for
unproductive purposes and future millions
were spent for a few years on water-
conservation for productive purposes in
rural areas. The Clarence River scheme
could have been built for the cost of
Warragamba, and would have been worth
untold millions in settlement and
development of the State.
• •
A few years ago Commonwealth
departments were complaining that their
best men were being lured away by offers
of lucrative jobs in private industry. Now
the complaints are coming from State
departments and it isn’t private industry
that is doing the luring-away ; it’s the
Commonwealth departments. Top jobs
in the Commonwealth Public Service are
now so well-paid and there are so many
top jobs that the States are finding it hard
to hold their men. The State purse is
limited ; but there’s no limit to the till-
money available in Canberra —contributed
by the taxpayers.
• •
At 73, J. B. Sleeman has decided to call
it a day and will not seek re-election for
the Fremantle seat in the Westralian
Assembly, which he has held for Labor
since 1923. Father of the House, he has
been Speaker for eight years and was
Chairman of Committees for six before
that. Though a staunch Laborite, he
has never hesitated to criticise party
leaders, especially during his 30 years
campaign for a technical high-school at
Fremantle, and in his support of the
movement for allowing women to sit on
juries.
- • •
A 10-point plan to counteract the
effects of credit-restrictions, lower wool
prices and the drought in some States has
been produced by the Victorian Chamber
of Manufactures:
The gradual reduction of taxation,
progressive easing of credit, reduction of
Government payrolls, increase in exports,
Tnore vigorous wooing of overseas capital,
development of toudsm, expansion of
primary and secondary industries, as well as
minerals, and better publicity overseas.
Newest point in the chamber’s pro-
gramme is in its suggestion for reducing
Government expenditure ; it calls for the
elimination of top-heavy administration
by not replacing civil servants on retire-
ment —not by drastic cuts in the current
levels.
• •
“Tom”: Labor M.P. for Yarra J. F.
Cairns is probably the first member in
the history of the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment to become a Doctor of Philosophy
after election to Parliament. The degree
was conferred on him on 21/12/’57 at
Wilson Hall for a thesis on the Welfare
State in Australia. Cairns has had a
varied career. He began his working-life
as a policeman, and became a university
student at 26. Prior to his entry into the
Reps, he was a lecturer at Melbourne
University.


PERSONAL ITEMS
The New Year brought a well-earned
C.B.E. to John Thomson, who retired as
general-manager of Westralian Farmers’
Co-operative, Ltd., on New Year’s Eve.
Born in Scotland 70 years ago, John
Thomson joined Wesfarmers in 1916 after
some tea-broking experience in London
and several years on the land in W.A.;
at Wesfarmers his early work was mostly
with wheat, and long before his War II
appointments as general-manager of the
Australia!* Wheat Board and chairman of
the Commonwealth Ships Chartering
Committee he had done a good deal to
revolutionise tljie handling of wheat in
Australia.
• •
“D.S.”: Philip Lindsay was more like
his late uncle Percy than his ‘father
Norman: short, round, silver-haired, thor-
oughly bohemian and friends with every-
body, like a wrinkled cherub. I was hardly
surprised to hear of his death last week,
for ill-health had made him pretty much
of a wreck when I met him in Sussex three
or four years ago—down at his half-
timbered Elizabethan manor-house where
you banged your head on the cross-beams
and the floor sloped at an angle of 45
degrees. But even then he was full of
good cheer —in fact we were both pretty
full of. plum wine—and I found him pas-
sionately addicted to Australia, Australian
poetry, cricket and Richard 111 (of whose
dubious character Phil was always a
defender). Panama Is Burning is pro-
bably the best of his many historical
novels ; and he also wrote an excellent
autobiography, memorable for its por-
traits of Norman Lindsay, and Robert D.
Fitz Gerald and other friends of his
Sydney days.
• •
,
“Symonym”: One of the less-
misguided features of the Melbourne silly
season has been the press and public
reception of Arthur Edward Breasley,
known familiarly as “Scobie,” who is in
Melbourne on holiday during the English
jumping-season. He headed the English
jockeys’ list last season and is at least
the most polished jockey produced in
Melbourne ; probably the best, not for-
getting Lewis, Duncan and Skidmore.
He declined the most flattering offers
to ride during his holiday until the New
Year’s Day meeting at Flemington, where,
from four mounts, he rode the winners
of the two richest races, both in photo-
finishes ; providing the opportunity for his
admirers to claim that no other jockey
could have got them home. An enormous
holiday crowd turned up at Flemington
to cheer him, gratifying the V.R.C. com-
mittee so deeply they entertained him in
the committee-rooms after the races —
the first time a jockey had been so
received —and the popular press gave him
pages.
Breasley, who was brought up in a
racing family at Wagga (N.S.W.), could
grip a horse with his knees by the time
he was four. He had little schooling, but
he has taught himself good^ English, and
he has learned m England the art of
understatement— I continually still make
mistakes —and in Australia how to shut
up. He is now rich, even as the English
rank riches. as a man of his courage
and skills deserves to be.
PIONEER
A Queensland University research-
scientist, D. J. Nicklin, aged 23, has been
awarded a Shell scholarship to Cambridge
University. A cousin-once-removed of
the Premier of Queensland, he will leave
for Cambridge in September to study for
a doctorate in chemical-engineering.
• •
Harold E. Bettle, the man mainly
responsible for bringing the Holden car
from the planning stage to actual volume
production, has retired from General
Motors. Bettle, an American, was in
Australia as managing-director of General
Motors-Holden for six years until 1953.
R. A. Curtis, assistant to management
In Neptune Oil Co.’s Australian head-
office, Melbourne, has left for London
to take part in an executive-training
course run by the company’s overseas
principals. Until recently Curtis Was
Neptune’s Tasmanian manager.
. • •
B.P. Australia, Ltd., has nabbed one
of Melbourne’s best-known directors,
Robert Weir, as its new chairman. He is
also chairman of Colonial Gas, Trufood
and McColl Electric Works, a director of
Thermal Traders (Vic.), Silk and Textiles
and Monsanto, and is a managing-
director of the highly successful Golhn
and Co. He began the hard way, on the
road. He was a famous fellow in 1918,
when he stroked Melbourne Grammar to
win the Head of the River, and now he is
an also-ran at golf.
“It was as though they walked
out of the sky,” Colin Simpson
/wrote, in Adam in Plumes, of the
men who discovered the high
valleys in central New Guinea some
20 years ago. In at The Bulletin
office, the man who was on the
three expeditions that went farthest
and deepest in the unexplored
country—discovering, in that sup-
posedly uninhabited territory, a
population of half a million —
proved to be a pretty substantial
legend, Mick Leahy (herewith) was
working as a railway-clerk at
Townsville (Q.) when he decided,
in 1926, to down pen and join the
Edie Creek gold-rush. He had ups-
and-downs there, and - elsewhere,
looking for gold, but he liked the
life and his brothers followed to
New Guinea. They’re very much
part of the place now.
These days Mick Leahy is a
pioneer cattle-breeder—he had come
south to buy cattle —and says
there is practically no limit to what
might be done on the high country,
given proper development. New
Guinea is a frontier, he says, and
nowadays a vital one. “If New
Guinea goes, Australia goes.”
M. F. Dixon: Fate was unkind to Basil
Kirke, pioneer Australian broadcaster,
when it decreed that he should die in his
mid-sixties, on the eve of his well-earned
retirement; but in one respect at least it
was kind to him in that he died in Western
Australia, the State he loved above all
others. Kirke began his association
with national broadcasting in Perth ; and
although he was in turn manager for
Victoria and New South Wales, Con-
troller of Broadcasts in External
Territories, with headquarters in Port
Moresby, and Federal Inspector at head-
office in Sydney, he gladly seized the
opportunity a few years ago of returning
to his beloved West, where he remained
as A.B.C. manager until his death on
January 8.
I first met Kirke in 1936, when he was
manager for Victoria and came to Sydney
to attend a programme conference. His


early background in broadcasting gave
him an uncanny insight into the likes and
dislikes of listeners; and many of the
popular A.B.C. programmes of about 20
years ago were due to his insistence that
the people must first be encouraged to
listen to the things they like before they
could be educated to higher standards.
Kirke was manager for N.S.W. when
war broke out in 1939. He had served
in War I, and had a lively appreciation of
what could happen to Australia if Japan
came in. 4 recall the afternoon on which
word was received that Germany had
invaded Poland. Kirke urged that the
national stations should remain open all
night to broadcast news of the invasion ;
and as 1 was in charge of news at the time,
the commission chairman, W. J. Cleary,
gave Kirke and me a free hand to run the
service as we thought fit.
• •
At the end of the year Captain Clifton
Palmer retired for the second lime. In
1939 he retired from active service with
the Port Phillip Pilot Service after 34
years in it —the longest term on record —
and he has recently retired, as an examiner
for pilots’ tickets and an inspector of
shipping. He’s had 67 years at sea,
rounded Cape Horn in sail many times,
got blown out through Port Phillip Heads
and kept out for a fortnight, and even has
been dismasted off the Cape of Good
Hope. At 26 he was a coastal skipper
with the Melbourne Steamship Co., and,
at 83, still carries himself like a master.
• •
Advertising and marketing, to most
Australians, suggest salesmanship rather
than scholarship. So there was more than
ordinary interest among advertising men
in the visit of Professor Neil M. Borden,
of Harvard University Graduate School
of Business Administration. Borden, a
recognised authority on advertising and
marketing, is here at the invitation
of Melbourne University and the Aus-
tralian Association of Advertising Agen-
cies. Currently in Sydney, he’ll spend a
few days in Brisbane, then go on to
Melbourne, where he’H lecture at the
university’s summer school of business
administration. At a press-conference
soon after his arrival in Sydney, Borden
faced up to a battery of questions, in-
cluding some distinctly curly ones regard-
ing financial and trade matters, with
patience and quiet good humor.
He was interesting, particularly, on the
subject of the Harvard University Gradu-
ate School of Business Administration,
which was set up some 50 years ago, and
which is attended by students from many
countries. Students are graduates —the
idea is to build administrative knowledge
on a broad-foundation education —and
the course is for two years. The first year’s
work is split between production, market-
ing, advertising, finance (accountancy and
control), and administration (including
two branches of public relations). In the
second year the student is given the
opportunity to specialise, and graduates
with a Master’s degree.
But this is only one aspect of the work
going on at the school. There is a large
doctoral programme, and various manage-
ment courses (no degree), for which
students are nominated by their firms or
trade-unions. The recently established
Australian Administrative Staff College
(B. 1/1 / ’5B) seems to have been modelled
on these courses, which quite a few
Australians have attended in recent years.
In the advanced management course, par-
ticularly, also in the middle management
course (for more junior types), but less
so in the course for trade-union leaders, it
'is hard to find room for more than a
small percentage of those nominated.
The big problem in America, as here (but
perhaps more generally recognised in
America), is recruiting executive material,
hence the popularity of these courses;
hence, too, the setting-up by big firms
PROFESSOR
like General Electric of elaborate training-
schools of their own.
Case-histories are the basis of teaching.
Collection of material was a problem, but
less so than in the past. By and large,
Borden said, the more progressive firms
were less reluctant to release material
than they had been ; recognising, perhaps,
that a good competitor would know a
fair bit about them, anyway, but also
because success in business depends far
more on top-level teamwork and the
ability of management to make day-to-
day decisions than on any gimmick of
process or organisation.
• •
Passed on in Perth at 82, John
Lindsay, Boer War veteran and Parlia-
mentarian, Minister for ‘ Works in Sir
James Mitchell’s last Ministry. A miner
before he left with a Westralian con-
tingent for South Africa, he spent six
years in that country, then returned to
help pioneer the Wyalkatchem (W.A.)
district. He harvested the district’s first
wheat-crop in 1907, was elected Country-
party M.L.A. for Toodyay in 1924, and
for the reconstructed seat of Mt. Marshall
in 1930.
• •
Sir Graham Waddell and E. S. Playfair
have been made honorary (council) life-
members of the Royal Agricultural
Society of N.S.W. Each has served for
20 years on the R.A.S. Council, the
society’s governing body.
e. •
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 84, Rev. John Andrew
Barber, one of the founders of the Australian
Inland Mission and a former Administrator
of the Presbyterian Church in Victoria.
In Adelaide, at 64, P. G. Bice, from 1946 till
his retirement last June S.A. Government Chief
Storekeeper. In World War I he was a company-
commander of 27th Bn., in which S.A. Premier
Sir Thomas Playford also served, and in War II
held, among other important posts, that of chair-
man of the State Coal Committee. C.B.E. in
In Sydney, David Lyall Brown, director of
the wool firm Bridgland and Brown. An Old
Digger, he helped to form the Limbless
Soldiers’ Club at Vaucluse, and for many years
was an R.A.S. honorary steward, also judging
the sheep-dog sections.
In California, at 56, London-born playwright
John van Druten. One of his most successful
plays was “The Voice of the Turtle,” which
ran three seasons on Broadway.
In Sydney, Agnes A. Brewster, formerly
headmistress of several big N.S.W. girls’ high-
schools. She wrote two nature-study books
used in N.S.W. schools.
In California, at 67, Maurice E. McLoughlin,
former U.S. Davis Cup star. Nicknamed
“the-California Comet,” his best year was in
1913, when he won Wimbledon, the U.S. singles-
title (for the second successive year), the U.S.
doubles-title with T. C. Bundy, and was a
member of the winning U.S. Davis Cup team.
He was in the American Davis Cup team
1908 to 1914.
In Sydney, at 57, Cyril Callaghen, a member
of the N.S.W. eight which won the 1929 King’s
Cup. His brother, the late Les Callaghen,
stroked that 1929 crew.
In Melbourne, John Joseph Bergin, well-
known Melbourne political and sporting
journalist.
In London, at 80, Sir Alliott Verdon-Roe,
founder of the A. V. Roe Aircraft Co., makers
of the Avro aeroplanes. First man to fly a
heavier-than-air machine in Britain.
In Sydney, at 55, as his ship was about to
berth, George Hutton, chief-engineer of
Oronsay. He had been with the Orient Line
for over 30 years.
At Chichester (Sussex), at 71, Eric Coates,
who composed the music of the famous
“London Suite.” He also wrote the popular
waltz “The Sleepy Lagoon.”
In London, at 75, Lord Waverley, who as Sir
John Anderson gave his name to the famous
air-raid shelters of World War 11. He was
Chancellor of the Exchequer (1943-45).


ABORIGINALITIES
\I7AY out north of Laverton (W.A.),
** past Cox’s Find and beyond
Erlistoun, just about where the second R
in Western Australia appears on most
maps, a group of natives at the Mulga
Queen have stepped up their production
of boomerangs. But not all for the local
market; dealers come from Perth and
take away the surplus at 15s. a time. The
makers average two * a day. In
addition they have pulled 30 tons of
sandalwood, and they plan to go in
soon for mining and dogging. It will not
be the first time that W.A. natives have
taken on mining. A few years ago the
abos of Mt. Margaret Mission helped the
Rev. Schenk to finance that mission by
working a small show ; and a year or so
back Don McLeod organised the natives
of the North in a tin venture. The
present movement is guided by J. Shep-
herd and his wife, the only whites in the
area. Last year the group netted £1575 ;
this year they hope to double that
amount. —“Nimrod.”
* * %■ »
“Banba”: Recent visitor to Mount Isa
was 74-year-old John Campbell Miles,
who exploded the myth that he had
named the place after his niece Isabelle
(B. 4/12/’57). In an interview with the
representative of the Mines’ house-
magazine, he said, "“So much bulldust. I
named it after Mount Ida, a Westralian
goldmine. Just switched ‘d’ to ‘s’ to
make it legal.”
* # * m
“Swanee”: When their- heavily-red-
-whiskered sire was whisked off to hospital
for an urgent op. the boys on the little
farm near Dargo, in Gippsland, found the
“I now welcome any practical suggestions on how to deal with scalers.”
job of bailing the rather wild heifers
beyon.d them —until one of them hit on
the idea of disguise. Tearing a handful
of fibre from a red stringybark he secured
it to his face with a string tied round his
neck, then donned the old man’s battered
felt. Thereafter there was no trouble with
the milking. »
* * * *
“Agricola”: You find frogs in queer
places all right! Clearing scrub to make
way for the Rhodes-grass pastures that
now carpet the Callide Valley (C.Q.),
we often found large live frogs in very
small pipes in the trunks of wilgas.
Curious, we cut up one of these trees to
see if we could find any connection with
this pipe and the outside world. There
wasn’t even a pinhole opening. How the
frogs got there and what they lived on
we never fathomed. When it rained
we could hear ’em croaking inside the
apparently sound trunk.
* * * *
“Fairf”: Two old-timers in Liverpool
(N.S.W.) used to delight in yarning about
the old days every time they met. Per-
haps they are still doing it in Valhalla
—with this difference: both might now
know the full story of the saddle. As
the one who knew told me: In the old
days young blades thought nothing of
riding up to 20 miles to a dance ; but
nobody liked sweating his own horse
when a neighbor had a moke turned-out
and doing nothing. A crust of bread as
an enticer, and the transport problems for
the night were solved. One night, how-
ever, the narrator had borrowed his
favorite hack, left it discreetly tethered
in the bush some distance from the hall,
and was enjoying the Lancers when an
irate neighbor strode through the door,
dumped a nearly-new saddle on the floor,
and announced with wild-eyed belli-
gerence: “For weeks some coot has been
‘sweating’ my mare. Well, tonight I
found her with this saddle on. If the
owner claims it he can have it.” The
owner didn’t claim it —either then or
on the occasions over the years when the
other old-timer mused: “By cripes, that
was a good saddle. I used it for years.
Wonder who did own it?”
* * * *
■piRST time in Australia (so far as is
known) that aircraft will be used
regularly to service a lighthouse will be
when planes of the Tasmanian Aero Club
start carrying mails, parcels, etc., this
month to and from Swan Island, off the
tip of the Speck’s north-east coast. The
club’s tender was accepted in competition
with fishing-boat operators yvho had
previously done the job, taking about six
hours from Bridport as against the one-
hour run the plane will do from Western
Junction, near Launceston. Swan Island,
placed on the map by Flinders, has been
the scene of many tragic wrecks, and its
convict-built lighthouse, opened in 1845,
has the unusual distinction of possessing
a foundation-stone laid by a Governor
and blessed by a bishop, the dual happen-
ing occurring when Tasmanian Governor
TOURISTS
The bus-driver with the bub
bub-bad stammer turns to tut
tut-talk to his passengers. “Thuth
thuth-that’s right”
“Say !” says an American
voice. “Just look at all those
birds after that tractor that’s
ploughing over there!
“Seagulls, aren’t they ?
What are they doing
so far inland from the sea ?”
“He he bub-breeds ’em.”
“You don’t say!” .. .
“Yes he does. He bub
bub-breeds ’em. And he cruck
{fighting for words)
cruck-crosses ’em with the she she
sheep to make mutton-birds.”
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.




Sir John Franklin and Bishop Francis
Russell Nixon were travelling together
that way in the Government yacht on a
tour of inspection. Aircraft have been
used on several occasions to fly people
to and from the island in cases of
emergency. —“C. Coral.”
* * * *
“Spin”: The two types of silvereye in
W.A. —the western, or greenie, and the
yellow—provide a striking example of the
way some birds will stick to certain
habitats. The greenie’s range extends
throughout the south-west, as far as a
couple of hundred miles inland and north
beyond Shark Bay, and including most of
the islands up to 10 or 12 miles off shore.
Its menu runs to anything from insects
to ripe fruit, with a double-issue around
the eucalyptus blooms —both the nectar
and the insects that come for it. The
“The first inter-island ballistic missile !”
yellow bird haunts the mangroves, so it
doesn’t range further south than the
southern limits of that vegetation—which
is around Shark Bay. That gives a
stretch of at least 100 miles where the
species overlap and where they’ve pre-
sumably been on speaking terms for
thousands of years ; yet they don’t mix.
The yellows keep inside and the greenies
outside of the mangrove strip. Why? I
don’t think it’s entirely a question of
food—naturally each species has its
certain preferences, but the greenie isn’t
fussy in the south and I think he'd relish
the insects and nectar of the mangrove-
country as well as those of its brothers.
Yet he never invades the yellows’
territory.
* * * *
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: Forty students were
trained as officers and employees of New
Guinea native co-ops during the past year
at the co-op. educational centre in Port
Moresby, and £6OOO-worth of improve-
ments to the £20,000 centre are planned
for 1958. Plans for this year include a
pre-examination course for ships’ masters.
This is to assist competent native seamen
in their exams for certificates as masters
of vessels of under 50 tons, calculated to
help lessen the shortage of masters for
coastal vessels, a serious handicap to the
co-op. organisation and to the agricultural
development of many native communities.
* * * *
“C.A.A.”: Made her last voyage just
before the year closed, the 110-year-old
Port Phillip pleasure-steamer Edina. The
trip which ended a colorful career, was
exactly one mile along the Yarra to
Appleton Dock, where the scrap-hammers
will break her up. After trading around
Western District ports from 1863, when
she arrived in the Bay, she was trans-
ferred to the Geelong-Melbourne run in
1880. Earlier, the Edina had run the
cotton-blockade in the American Civil
War, been a “trooper” to the Crimea,
and brought gold-rush migrants to Aus-
tralia. Passengers used to make the
journey from Geelong to Melbourne for
Is. 6d. ; the present cheapest rail-fare is
10 times that amount.
* * * *
“Bass”: The old belief that vixens
never suckle their young, but feed them
from birth on regurgitated food, is
wrong ; but there’s a basis for it. Vixens
suckle their pups for only a brief time—
sometimes, possibly, only a matter of days
—before they begin feeding them on
partly-digested food. That means the
pups can eat of their own accord probably
earlier than most animals of their size ;
and they’re taught to hunt right from the
start. Food is never brought to the lair,
but is hidden somewhere in the vicinity
by one of the parents, who signifies
dinner-time by calling from a direction
other than that in which the food is
placed ; and, as the pup that first finds
the food gets the biggest share, the hunt
acts two ways—in extra-lean times only
the fittest will survive, and the pups learn
to distrust each other and to keep a
good watch on the other bloke even while
searching themselves. When a couple of
days pass without the dinner-call the
pups know there’s no longer a Santa
Claus, and they split up and begin to hunt
their own prey.
* * * *
“Flight”: How do flying-foxes get on
for protection against mosquitoes? They
live in colonies in the most mosquito-
infested places they could possibly find
in scrubs and mangrove-swamps; and
they can’t even scratch themselves, as
they hang upside-down.
* * * *
“Keima”: That meteor-showers are
solely due to disintegrated comets was
first proved by the American astronomer
H. A. Newton in the 1860’s. Referring
in particular to a brilliant meteor-shower
of 1833, he predicted a similar one in
Nov., 1866 —which duly eventuated in
all its glory ; as it wqs to do again in
1899. The earth at this 33-year interval
used to pass through the orbit of a comet
which, it was clear, was represented now
only by meteors. Again, a copious shower
of meteors was tipped for 1872, when
what was suspected to be a defunct
comet, the Biela Comet, was due to
reappear ; the showers arrived all right,
but, of course, no comet. At present there
are few spectacular meteor-showers due,
arriving or recently arrived —they've been
practically burned-up in earlier years.
There may, of course, in time, be such
spectacles again—though we'll have to
wait not only until new comets cross the
earth’s path, but until they break-up.
* * * *
“Kerba”: Anybody identify this wog,
the first of its kind I’ve seen? Body
dark-brown, £in. long ; antennae fin.,
very fine, with two joints in each. Six
legs, the back ones disproportionally thick
in the “thighs” and bowed out from the
body. Looks like a wingless beetle.
Nothing very unusual —while it is lying
on its back. But turn it over and you
notice standing out from the dark back-
ground a light-brown Cross of St.
Andrew. The “face” is in the form of an
isosceles-triangle as geometrically correct
as the cross. At the neck it joins another
triangle formed between the lines of the
cross, the two figures completing a
diamond. “The geometrical insect” would
seem an appropriate name for it; I
think a spider has beaten it to the “St.
Andrew’s Cross” monicker.
OLD ORCHARD, DRY SUMMER
There is a phoenix in the apple-tree,
burning
Zone of fire and sky—heraldic red,
Medieval blue, the mountain-lowries
blaze
Italic on dusty leaves. Old meeting trees
Hang Regency-striped apples to the sun
Above the rustling shores of spring’s ebb-
tide.
—September is brown straw beneath my
hand,
And, leaping tropic in dry shade,
Poised on Pythagorean legs, an emerald
Grasshopper jewels my Polynesian land.
VICTORIA.
JESS ALDRIDGE.


I TOOK them to be escapees. Two
dodged from tree to tree, from fence to
fence, keeping abreast of their com-
panion, who strutted along the footpath
with all the dignity his short legs would
allow, looking directly at any passer-by
with defiant black eyes, and occasionally
shaping-up to someone, with head cocked
and a couple of mincing, hornpipe steps,
a matey “Hullo there, cocky boy!” and
a jaunty whistle. They were still heading
towards the bright lights of the town when
last I saw them, the two little painted
finches and the pedestrian galah. —
“Alma.”
* * * *
“Noo Zee”: Top House Hotel, in the
high country 40 miles from Nelson (N.Z.),
has seen some rough times and is built
to stand them. But there’s a precaution-
ary notice where you take your suds:
“Patrons are requested to remain seated,
when the bar is moving.”
* * * *
“Miss M.”: “In the old days,” says our
orchardist neighbor, “out of every three
apples I grew, one was for me, one for
the Taxation Commissioner and one for
the codlin-moth. Since they invented
D.D.T. the codlin-moth’s lost his apple.
The Taxation Commissioner takes it —•
and mine, too.”
* * * *
“Manamoi”: “Gravelsnatcher’s” joey
(B. 18/12/’57) notwithstanding, kanga-
roos and wallabies are herbivorous, as a
look at their teeth will demonstrate.
Canine teeth are absent or rudimentary,
and incisors and molars are unmistak-
ably adapted for the nipping-off and
grinding of herbage. The animals are
thought to have evolved from ancestors
whose diet was less specialised, whence
also sprang our rat-kangaroos. These
little chaps, more primitive than their
larger cousins, have well-developed
canine teeth and- are still semi-insecti-
vorous. So the unusual food preferences
of “Gravelsnatcher’s” little mate may
have been due to atavism, or merely to a
dietary deficiency, such as causes some
children to eat dirt. I once had a pony
that relished cakes of mud from the beds
of dried-up waterholes, but would
not claim therefore that horses are
geophagous.
* * * *
“Van”: If you are in doubt over using
the milk from a newly-calved cow, boil
the milk. It will turn thick or curdle if
still unfit for human consumption, but
will remain normal otherwise. It is
almost impossible to tell whether milk is
fit by its appearance or, by the length of
time after the cow has calved.
TRAVEL
"CLYING by “tourist” from Melbourne
to Sydney in less than two hours,
with the 60-odd passengers taking this
cheap celerity as a matter of course, set
thoughts working on changes in travel
over about the past half-century. The
changes had also been brought home a
few weeks earlier, when a Viscount from
Canberra had taken 35 minutes for the
150 air-miles from Fairbairn to Mascot
—or just the same space of time as the
Manly ferry, later the same evening, had
taken to carry the traveller the seven
miles from Circular Quay to the Wharf.
He could remember a seven-weeks’
voyage from Melbourne to London
before the days of ships’ wireless, with a
boiler breakdown in the Atlantic, an
occasional passing ship, and one morn-
ing the great peak of Teneriffe soaring
above the clouds after weeks without a
glimpse of land. Belated arrival at
Tilbury, after a violent gale and snow-
"Fill 'er up.”
storm in the Channel (which had left the
wrecks of sailing-ships and steamers
along the Kentish coast) had revealed an
anxious relation who had come from
Dublin to meet the ship, and had been
awaiting it for several days.
Even more vividly, the traveller could
recall the holidays of a childhood in
Melbourne. Mostly they were spent in
the Dandenongs, then still mostly virgin
bush, or elsewhere in the hills. The dress-
baskets were filled and strapped, and a
phone-call made to the nearest cab-rank
>—at Camberwell Station. Half-an-hour
later an eager boy would see a four-
wheeler turn the corner, drawn by a
horse which clip-clopped up to the gate.
Sometimes a hansom came, more excit-
ing to ride in but with less room for the
luggage.
The steam-tram run to Bays water,
through the little villages beyond Box
Hill, was followed by the best part of the
journey, the stage-coach up to Sassafras
or Olinda The road was rough, and the
pace painfully slow once the steep slopes
were reached, but the sights, sounds and
scents of the bush were wonderful, and
it was exciting to join the men walking
behind to ease the strain on the horses.
At times it was possible to get on the box-
seat with the coachman—and no boy of
today would get an equal thrill, even if
he were invited into the cockpit of his
holiday plane, which he isn’t.
Only a few years later the motor-car
made its gradual impact. For a long time
a drive in a motor-car was one of the
chief joys of life—and one of the rarest.
Horse-trams, including the rocking
double-deckers of Adelaide, were also
among the pleasant recollections, as well
as the first charabancs, offering variety
in their trips to seaside and bush,
Steam-trains were always splendid,
whether they were the country expresses
or the little one-carriage job which
covered that section of the Outer Circle
line between Deepdene and Ashburton,
Once, the enginedriver had invited the
small traveller to get into the cab while
the engine shunted, and that had seemed
the culmination of all ambition.
There were hundreds of other trips to
remember: the trial-run of Harold
Clapp’s first air-conditioned carriage
(before the Spirit of Progress was built);
the little train out of Dublin to Dun-
drum ; the Sante Fe express through St.
Louis and Kansas City to Denver and the
Rockies ; the smart electric-trams between
Bonn and Cologne ; the Garuda trans-
port-plane, full of Indonesians and
freight getting chilly over the Equator
between Macassar and Menado in the
Celebes; the coach along the lovely road
from Launceston through Deloraine to
Burnie ; the coast road near Malacca ;
the tiny “local” between Oxford and
Banbury.
These and many other similarly
memorable journeys in quite a few
countries over the years. But travel
today, the traveller thought, as the plane
descended through bushfire smoke near
Canberra to the smog and haze of
Sydney, had lost its excitement; a means
of getting to places or of leaving them,
but in itself merely something to be
endured with as little boredom as
possible. Was this, the traveller
wondered, a general symptom of today’s
living?
CHARLES MEEKING.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £81,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with tho
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. F.gerton,
Manager for Australia.
Warwick
PRESBYTERIAN
Schools
" y
Rolls Now
Open for
BOARDERS for 1958
THe SCOTS COLLEGE
At the SCOTS COLLEGE,
boys from 6 years of age up
to University Matriculation
enrolled. Full schooling in
Academic, Commercial,
Manual Training Courses.
Principal:
Mr. A. W. Briggs, B.A.
Kill]
At the PRESBYTERIAN
GIRLS* COLLEGE,
thorough education from
Preparatory Grade to
University Matriculation,
Full Academic, Commercial,
Domestic Science Courses.
Joint Principals:
Mrs. B. Crombie, B.Sc.,
Mrs. H. Green, M.A.
First Term commences: 28th January, 1958
Fees for Senior Boarders for 1958: £BB per term.
WRITE TO DA Y FOR PROSPECTUS TO:
The Principal
The Scots Colleob
WARWICK. Q’LD.
The Joint Principals
The Presbyterian Girls’
CoIIeoe.WARWICK .O’ LD.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
WRIGHT, HEATON AND CO., LTD.
T TNOBTRUSIVELY, t h e
activities of nearly-century-
old Wright, Heaton and Co.
have undergone many changes
in the past few years. As
recently as 1950 the co. des-
cribed itself as “Produce and
general merchants, Customs
House, forwarding and ship-
ping-agents, general carriers,”
with emphasis on the produce
and carrying sections of the
business.
Today the co. is chiefly a
wholesale chain-grocer, with
30 branches in N.S.W., and its
profitable subsidiary, McCul-
loch Carrying Co. Pty., Ltd.,
owns two stores in N.S.W.,
one in Victoria, and also
controls Murray River saw-
mills.
But there remains a tendency
for stores in different country
towns to be adapted to the
requirements of an individual
town; in a particular case
produce-merchandising may
still be especially important.
Though carrying is relatively
small and mostly related to the
still-active Customs-agency and
forwarding section of the
business, in some areas it is
more important than in others.
However much the nature of
the business may have changed
during the war and since, the
management is still keen and
on the ball, and at the same
time takes a long view in its
trading and financial arrange-
ments. Wright, Heaton is,
indeed, a very well - run
business, with no sign of the
problems which so many con-
cerns engaged in the grocery
trade have encountered since
1951.
Indicating the somewhat
elastic nature of the co.’s trad-
ing scope, in August last
year a department-store was
acquired at Warren (N.S.W),
this giving it a direct interest in
retailing as well. It has already
proved to be a satisfactory
purchase, judged on the growth
in turnover. Cost to the co. was
49,394 10s. stock-units, issued
on the basis of 30s. a share.
The Warren acquisition took
place after the close of
accounts on July 31. During
the last term turnover was
maintained at a high level, and
gross earnings moved up from
£577,186 to £592,697. But
there was a jump from
£382,865 to £408,974 in opera-
ting expenses (including depre-
ciation and amortisation,
£12,711 —down £5334), and,
after providing £70,600 for
taxation (down £10,900), net
profit was £302 higher at
£113,123: —
Re-
July, Profit. , Dividends—serves.
£ £ £
1953.. 65,953 15 p.c. = 30,938 368,370
1954.. 97,794 15 „ ~ 30,938 435,226
1955. .108,871 15 „ ~45,000 499,097
Assets revalued, £100,000.. 599,097
Reserves capitali’d, £lOO,OOO 499,097
1956. .112,821 15 p.c. = 52,500 559,418
1957. .113,123 15 „ ~61,852 610,089
Prov. long-ser. leave, £lO,OOO 600,689
The net result was equal to
27.4 p.c. on average capital,
compared with 32.2 p.c. in the
preceding year. But the div.,
unchanged at 15 p.c. on the
increased capital, was still
amply covered, and, after trans-
ferring £lO,OOO to provision for
long-service leave, net addition
to reserves was £41,271, com-
pared with £60,321 in the
preceding year.
Reserves, including £50,000
set aside for contingencies and
£30,000 for fluctuations in
stock-values, at £600,689 were
one-and-a-half times as big as
capital at last balance-day, and
equal to 255. per 10s. share.
This is apart from the inner
reserves which may exist in
“I know that's the brute, officer , because he's
my husband."
“business premises,” in the
books at the written-down
value of £213,484, and which
include some freeholds
acquired back in the dim and
distant past. But about three-
fourths of the item has risen
in the book since the co. began
to launch-out into its new
wholesale chain in 1951 or
thereabouts.
There is inner strength also
in the McCulloch Carrying Co.
shareholding. This was the
source of a one-for-three
bonus-issue in 1956, when the
book-value of the scrip was
written-up from £25,000 to
£125,000, but it is unlikely that
the writing-up operation was in
any way overdone. The
acquisition of the Warren
department-store, too, will enter
the books at a value offset by
£49,394 of share-premiums.
Balance-sheet figures show a
very liquid position:
1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £400,000 £400,000
Reserves .. 559,418 600,689
Staff fund .. 5,424 5,078
Overdraft . . 145,218 159,960
Sundry creditors 247,098 238,282
Tax provision .. 106,711 96,381
Long-service prov. 15,000 25,000
McCulloch Carry-
ing Co.—current
account .. 57,544 56,763
Final div. .. 30,000 31,852
£1,560,413 £1,614,005
Premises .. 199,623 213,484
Plant .. .. 34,839 36,831
McCulloch shares 125,000 125,000
Other shares .. 94 94
Stocks .. 651,483 642,199
Debtors .. 510,936 550,982
Cash .. .. 44,438 45,415
£1,566,413 £1,614,005
The co. maintains a speedy rate
of turnover, and stocks (down
£9284 last term) are mobile and
in the books at or below cost.
Debtors (up £40,046) are not
causing the co. any worry


i
4m
■Hr
r
rrL*2
1 felt certain
that I had paid it
You can always be quite positive, by making payments
through an A.N.Z. Cheque Account. Your cheque butts will
tell you exactly what you've spent, and your Bank Statements
record both deposits and payments. That's why smart people
use A.N.Z. Cheque Accounts.
An A.N.Z. Savings Bank Account will look after your savings
and pay you interest too. You can open one with as little
as one shilling.
Remember, A.N.Z. Bank is distinguished by its quick, personal
service, and by this shield . . .
A-N-Z
j» » »
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED Cheque Accounts
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED Savings Accounts
ANZ423. 18SB 1
despite the dry conditions pre-
vailing in most of the areas
where its stores operate. Both
slocks and debtors are modest
in relation to turnover.
For many years capital was
unchanged at £137,500. Then
in the 1951 term the old 50s.
shares were converted into 10s.
stock-units and another £68,750
of capital was raised. Again
during the 1955 term £93,750
was offered at par, making paid
capital £300,000; this was
followed in June, 1956, by the
one - for - three bonus - issue
(£100,000) financed by writing-
up the McCulloch holding, and
which took capital to its
present £400,000.
At a time when experienced
management is particularly
appreciated the market is happy
to pay 30s. for Wright, Heaton
10s. ords., and thereby obtain
an immediate yield of 5 p.c.
For those content with that
income for the time being,
holding of the stock should be
rewarding.
B.H.P. Rights
CJHAREMARKET dealings in
the rights to B.H.P.’s new
cne-for-five issue at par*have
started in great style. There
have been dealings at 225., with
the old shares at 435.
This is a pronounced
strengthening compared with
the pre-Christmas quotations,
and is almost on a par with the
record quotations, cum rights
to bonus and par issues, of the
boom period of 1957, allowing
for subsequent exercise of the
rights.
At present levels the yield
offering from B.H.P. old shares
is 3.9 p.c. from an 8J p.c.
dividend, with about the same
from taking-up the rights.
Current prices for B.H.P.
shares seem to be definitely on
the high side for those who
want to see a satisfactory return
on their money within a reason-
able time.
The shares will no doubt
prove excellent for long hold-
ing, but in view of the well-
known policy of conservatism
followed by the B.H.P. board
the shares appeared to be no
bargain at last week’s level.
Waiting a little longer may
see a more favorable chance
of buying the rights. Applica-
tions for the new issue do not
close until February 24, and
dealings will continue on
’Change until that date.
The True Indicators
TTHE group of about 50
-*• leading Australian public-
company shares that have been
selected by fixed-trusts, staff-
provident funds, assurance and
insurance companies, etc., as
appropriate investments have
been receiving a greater degree
of support, naturally, than
run-of-the-mill investments on
’Change.
On Australian ’Changes
strong market support from
one direction tends to attract
further support from other
quarters, and, apart altogether
from the undoubted intrinsic
merits of many chosen front-
liners, a “market” situation is
created around shares like
8.H.P., G. J. Coles, A.C.1.,
1.C.1.A.N.Z., etc., that is
distinct from the normal
investment interest in equity
shares.
It becomes a question, there-
fore, whether market “leaders”
(as these chosen stocks are) are
truly representative of market
conditions, or whether
“leaders,” through being
leaders, are today in a class
of their own, divorced some-
what from economic reality.
It is a fact that the majority
of front-line stocks, though
down a little in some cases
from the peak levels of the past
six months, are still high by
average standards. On the
other hand, most of the
second-line stocks have shown
a considerable fall over the
same time.
We thus have the position
of 1.C.1.A.N.Z. offering a
present yield of 3.2 p.c. (with
Burns Philp and Henry Jones
on the same basis) and Brad-
ford Cotton yielding 6.9 p.c.,
Cyclone 5.4 p.c., A.R.C. 5.3
p.c., J. Gadsden 5.7 p.c., and
the two front-rank woollen-
textile concerns offering 6.7
p.c. and 8 p.c. And there are
a great number of industrials
and retailers yielding between
7 p.c. and 10 p.c,
In most cases (though not in
all) these long-yielders have
given more ground during
recent market setbacks than
the front-liners have. And, in
truth, the second-liners, up to
now, have suffered more profit-
and-loss setbacks than the
B.H.P. and 1.C.1. type have.
A number of these second-
liners, however, have been a
lush investment for their
backers over the past five years
—usually, in terms of profit-
earning and distributions, much
more lush than any of the
front-liners in the same period.
But the fact remains that
recently some have shown a
steadying in their progress.
Several, like A.R.C. and
Reichhold, have been spec-
tacular investments indeed,
whose largesse in the shape of
capital - expansion has not
inhibited their div.-paying
capacity to a corresponding
extent. They have put money
into the pockets of their
backers apart from mere
capital - increment. But, as
mentioned, on the most recent
figures there has been a


DEVELOP YOUR
PROPERTY
ECONOMICALLY. . .
Si
WITH
HUMES
REINFORCED CONCRETE
TROUGHING
So easy to erect, Humes centrifugally spun
reinforced concrete Troughing is an essential
piece of permanent equipment. No maintenance
required—fire resistant —cannot rust —these are
but some of the advantages of Humes Concrete
Troughing.
In lengths of 8 feet at competitive prices!
HUMES LIMITED
43 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY. 8X4185
FACTORIES IN:
Adamstown, Grafton, Harden, Lismore, Moree,
Queanbeyan, Rydalmere, Tamworth.
H/60
.OPES
oj Every Type
and Size
Famous for many
years as Queensland’s
premier manufacturers
of envelopes we pro-
duce the well known—
“JAXUL” PATENT
CLEAR - FACE WIN-
DOW Envelopes in
sizes 5f ins. x ins.,
6§ x 31 and 9 ins. x
4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED En-
velopes in all sizes,
No. 1 to No. 8.
Plain or Printed
COMMERCIAL En-
velopes in all standard
sizes and qualities,
plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on ,application
tlockson &
O’Sullivan pt y . Ltd.
E nvelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers <& Printers
304-j!O6 QUEEN STREEi, BRISBANE
tendency for them to stabilise
and consolidate.
In another category have
been second-liners of an older
type which have more local
competition (and possibly
overproduction) to meet, such
as textile-manufacturers. These
second-liners did quite well
during the war and for several
years afterwards, but recently
have found trading conditions
more competitive and costs
rising. Some have cut their
divs. and have suffered severe
sharemarket depreciation.
Hardware concerns, previ-
ously very profitable indeed,
have undergone a change of
fortune, and among city
retailers outlooks vary.
For a number of reasons, it
will be found, sharemarket
support for “leaders” is not
representative of the share-
market as a whole. Investors
of different types find that the
monopoly or near-monopoly—
or, in any case, a company that
dominates a particular industry
—is nearer, in present circum-
stances, to their hearts’ desire
as an investment than thaS
fascinating variety of enter-
prises which form the rest of
the stock-lists, out of which
spectacular profits will be
made from some, and out of
which plenty of disappoint-
ments will be picked.
But what does seem to
emerge most clearly from a
study of this situation is that
there is at present a boom in
the leaders, and that very low
yields are being accepted for
reasons set-out at the beginning
of this item. These yields are
not representative of the
money-market in Australia and
are based more on hopes of
“capital-increment” than on
actual or prospective dividend-
yields.
Yet, in the long-run, capital-
increment can only be
justified by a pay-off of some
kind from the company itself,
not from the market. And
while there is no doubting the
merit of our market leaders,
the length of time it will take
for them ultimately to become
profitable holding will depend
very considerably upon the
price (in relation to yield) that
is paid for them today.
Holden Exports
ABOUT 3500 Holden cars
and utilities were exported
to New Zealand in the year
ended June 30 last.
Trade figures just released in
Melbourne show that in the
1956-57 financial year, Aus-
tralia exported to N.Z. cars,
commercial viehicles, auto-
motive parts and tyres worth
£3,438,830. General Motors-
Holden was by far the biggest
Australian exporter in this field.
Some of the Holden vehicles
were shipped fully assembled.
The others were “knocked-
down,” ready to be assembled
in N.Z.
Assembly of Holdens at
General Motors’ Wellington
plant began last April. But the
N.Z. Government’s decision to
impose import-cuts is expected
to seriously affect this trade, at
least temporarily.
Motor-industry people in
Melbourne say they have had
no official advice yet on the
severity of the N.Z. import-cuts.
They add, however, that they
expect the cuts to be as high
as 25 p.c. on “knocked-down”
vehicles and 50 p.c. on fully
assembled vehicles.
M.L.C. Weather Beacon
A USTRALIA’s first weather
beacon on top of the
M.L.C. Building at Victoria
Cross, North Sydney, began
weather-forecasting at 10 a.m.
on December 31.
The beacon is remotely con-
trolled from the Weather
Bureau at Observatory Hill, and
forecasts are signalled to the
public by means of a code of
colored lights.
The beacon is 448 ft. above
mean sea-level—higher than the
arch of the Harbor Bridge—
and is visible for 10 miles on
clear nights, and for lesser
distances in daytime according
to visibility.
The short-range weather-
forecasts determined by the
Weather Bureau and set by
remote-control switch equip-
ment are set at 6 a.m., noon,
4.30 p.m. and 10 p.m. daily
and additionally when special
weather conditions warrant it.
Although the code of
signals was widely publicised,
and nearly one million cards
showing the code were dis-
tributed, The Bulletin has
been asked by a number of
people to elucidate. Here is
the code again, as supplied by
the M.L.C.: —
Temperature Forecast.
When lights at top of beacon are
rising warmer
Lights falling .. .. cooler
Lights steady .. .. no change
Weather Forecast.
(Lower part of beacon.)
White lights:
Steady fine
Long flashes .. .. clearing
Short flashes .. .. windy
Red:—
Steady rain
Long flashes .. .. change
Strong flashes .. .. strong
WINDS AND RAIN
Four other beacons on top
of M.L.C. buildings in Brisbane,
Melbourne, Adelaide and
Perth will soon be operating.
At dusk a photoelectric cell
cuts off the system of in-
candescent lamps and changes
over to a system of fluorescent
tubes. The reverse happens at
dawn. The forecasts are short-
period only, and no alterations
are made to the temperature
lights merely because of the
normal tendency for tempera-
tures to rise during the day and
to fall at night.


“Mad dogs and Eskimos go out in the midnight sun !”


SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Melbourne Stage
Holiday fare in Melbourne
follows the immemorial
pattern, though there is a trifle
less panto, in the pudding.
Time was when the city could
boast of eleven pantos, and
entrepreneurs were as
secretive about the subject
they had selected to spring
on an expectant public as
Royal Academicians. This year
they confined themselves to a
mere three examples, but if the
/ quantity has diminished the
quality is up to standard.
Cinderella is losing her
slipper twice daily at the Tivoli
in Bourke Street in the engaging
person of Heather Horwood, a
young lady who earns her place
as much for her singing as her
acting, and who is ably sup-
ported by Johnny Lockwood,
as the irrepressible Buttons. If
Miss Horwood holds the secret
of perpetual youth she might
go as far as the immortal Jenny
Howard.
“Peter Pan,” in a new musical
version, is on tap at the Prin-
cess. The music by Bruce
George is full of good inten-
tions, but as most of it is put
into the mouth of Mary Hardy,
a breezy Peter Pan but certainly
no singer, it wouldn’t be fair
to pass judgment on it. Justice
demands a pat on the back for
Harold Vike for his scenic
arrangement, of the Darling
nursery into which Peter floats
and lures the children away
to the pirate stronghold.
The oversentimentalised
Darling family are represented
by John Stewart, Joan Harris,
Patsy King, lan Turpie and
that sterling actor Clement
McCallin, who makes a magni-
ficent appearance later as that
foulest of foul fiends, Captain
Hook. However sticky Sir
James Barrie’s fantasy may be
on adult palates, the children
love it.
Across the way, at the
National Theatre, Shaw’s
“Pygmalion” is enjoying a
revival at the hands of Peter
O’Shaughnessy, and a better
production of this would be
hard to imagine. Pygmalion
was a king of Cyprus and also
a great sculptor. He modelled
the statue of a woman, Galatea,
which was so beautiful that he
begged Aphrodite to bring her
to life, and, when she did so,
married her and allowed her
to bore him for the rest of his
life.
Shaw leaves his parody at
the point where marriage is
impending and neither Pro-
fessor Higgins nor Eliza has
had time to have illusions
shattered or Eliza had time
to turn into a nagger, but
that she will do so is made
“He's driving."
clear enough by Shirley Smith’s
presentation. As the whimper-
ing and whining flower-girl
with the acute inferiority-com-
plex, Miss Smith was wellnigh
perfect, and was equally good
in her transmogrification into
a perfect lady with a tendency
to relapse in a crisis into the
great Australian adjective.
Peter O’Shaughnessy, as Pro-
fessor Higgins, the grammarian
who moulds Eliza’s speech with-
out paying the least attention
to her body, was just right.
Tony Bazell, as Eliza’s dust-
man father, was good Shaw.
“The Bunyip and the Satel-
lite,” the O’Shaughnessy play
for Australian children, put on
at the National Theatre in the
daytime, is a delightful and
seasonable little trifle. At Her
Majesty’s “The Pyjama Game”
is enjoying a revival and the
revival is enjoying moderaie
attention.
“Salad Days,” the unusual
musical which has been draw-
ing the crowds to Melbourne
Princess, will soon be served
up to Sydney theatregoers at
the Elizabethan Theatre. If
Sydney doesn’t sample it as
heartily as Melbourne it will
be unfortunate for Sydney.
* * ***
Melbourne “Messiah”
tt a v «A>r • , „ •
Handels Messiah sung in
Jff a T aBe ’ Su , n^ n wc ] 1
indifferently or even badly will
always remain a work of
tremendous spiritual impact,
and it remained so in the Mel-
bourne presentation, although
there was nothing particularly
distinguished or new in the
Melbourne Philharmonic’s
105th presentation at the Town
Hall. '
Sir Bernard Heinze led
choristers and orchestra, as if
by habit, along the musical
path he knows so well, though
something seemed to go wrong
with the “Hallelujah” chorus.
Audience and orchestra stood
in accordance with ancient
custom, the chorus started, a
trumpet was sounded by Mr.
Mervyn Simpson and it was
all over, and, for his part, the
present writer was left thinking
ot the hardness of the seat to
which he would soon be return-
ing, rather than of the magni-
ficent music.
The whole essence of
Handel’s intent seemed to be
missing. Gone was the ecstasy,
the ferment and the fierce
inspiration. It seemed to come
less from the heart than from
the score-sheet.
What was left was some
excellent individual perform-
ances. Robert Payne, with
over 100 renditions of the solo
bass-part to his credit, furthered
his reputation with a straight-
forward, lucid account of his
foie. He sang carefully,
intelligently and with a firm
grip. The same might be said
of contralto Joan Jones, with
minor reservations. Soprano
Glenda Raymond sang beauti-
fully, with none of the pretty-
prettiness that critics have com-
plained of. Her phrasing and
& n ® excellent and “He
Shall Feed His Flock was full
of warmth and musical feeling.
Ronald Dowd’s account of
, he tenor solo t struck the
deepest note of the evening,
*X* *X* *X*
.
F airly Good Measure
[From London]
Newcomers at the Old Vic,
in the shape of producer
Margaret Webster and her
protege, Australian Barry Kay,
have impressed their person-
alities on “M eas u r e for
Measure” to good effect, but
have not succeeded in making
this difficult and unrewarding
play credible and comprehen-
sible. Kay’s setting is at once
dark (in the sense that the
comedy is “dark”), spiky and
romantic. With its high plat-
forms and multiple acting-areas,
it is admirable for Miss
Webster’s morality - play
approach. The alliance of
Tudor extravagance, Spanish
Main soldiery and pastel shades
in the costumes is especially
felicitous.
Nevertheless, it seems that,
however ingenious and
experienced a producer may be,
the play defies a unified inter-
pretation. The drop-curtain
purports to quote the play’s


CHATEAU TANUNDA
Stories of the Coastal Lights No. 13
The lighthouse at Smoky Cape—about halfway between Port
Macquarie and Coff’s Harbour —has several claims to dis-
tinction.
Standing 420 ft. above high-water, it is the (tallest light
on the N.S.W. coast. In addition, with the exception of the
Queensland* light on Fitzroy Island, which can be seen n
clear weather 28 miles away, it has the longest range of ail
the lighthouses on Australia's eastern seaboard. It is visible
for 27 miles ; this makes it one of the five lights with the
longest range on the entire 12,210 miles of the Australian
coastline.
Like many other lighthouses on the N.S.W. coast, it was
built at a time when our coastal shipping was flourishing. In
1886, on a motion sponsored by Alexander Kethel, Member
for West Sydney, the Legislative Assembly decided that a
lighthouse should be erected at Smoky Cape primarily in the
interests of our coastal trade. The Colonial Architect, James
Barnett—who played a major part in designing the lights at
South Solitary Island, Sugarloaf Point, Point Perpendicular,
Montagu Island and Green Cape—selected the site and pre-
pared the necessary plans and specifications.
However, -in the course of building, a change was made
in Government administration, and Mr. Barnett was replaced
by Cecil W. Darley, Engineex-in-Chief for Harbours and
Rivers.
The work was completed under Mr. Darley's guidance,
and the Smoky Cape light came into use on April 15, 1891.
Total cost was nearly £17,000.
The light, which is shown from an octagonal concrete tower
32 ft. high, has a strength of 316,000 candle power.
It is recorded that the contractor, Mr. Oakes, died while
the work was in progress and his executors completed the
contract.
More than 20 wrecks have occurred in the area, several of
them with losses of life. Three men died when the ketch
Woolloomooloo was wrecked in Trial Bay in 1864 and nine
died in the wreck of the brig Annie Ogle in 1875.
Position of the Smoky Cape light is latitude 30° 56'
south, longitude 153° 05' east. The nearest town is Jersey-
ville, six miles away on the Macleay River. The light is
206 miles from Sydney by sea.
You can have confidence in the quality
of this pure grape brandy
CHATEAU TANUNDA
N.S.W. Agentt:
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
Distributors of fine spirits for 119 years
Ingredients —allegiance, justice,
authority, lust, duplicity,
lechery, vice, chastity, frailty
and trust. These oddly-con-
trasted abstractions were never
more at variance than in this
comedy. It is impossible to feel
any sympathy for Isabella
(although the heart burns for
the actress playing her), who
has no compunction in prefer-
ring death (her brother’s) to
dishonor; and what a line is
this to punch out to the
gallery: “Greater than our
brother is our chastity”!
Shakspeare, never shy of the
coincidence as a dens ex
tnachina, has a veritable gala
day, with two stand-ins for the
erring but harshly-sentenced
Claudio and one even for the
virtuous Isabella ; furthermore,
the mistaken-identity coup was
never more overplayed than
between the Duke-alias-Friar-
alias-Duke and the fatuous
Lucio.
Miss Webster highlights the
comedy, the bawdry and the
stylism and brings out the
poetry. John Neville’s Angelo
is lightly-drawn, cold as a
glacier, secretly hypocritical
rather than evil. Barbara
Jefford is a pale, determined
and self-convincing Isabella, a
high achievement in all the
circumstances. Anthony
Nicholls’s Duke is eloquently-
voiced, while Paul Daneman
(Pompey), Ronald Fraser
(Elbow) and Derek Godfrey
(Lucio) account respectively for
robust, fruity and sly comedy.
On the night, a mishap, often
heard of but never before
witnessed, occurred a few
minutes before the final curtain.
One character, kneeling in dis-
grace, had his head bared by a
guard—unfortunately literally
so, for his wig came away with
the hat. With superb presence
of mind, the actor not only rose
above his embarrassment and
went on with his speech, but
also contrived to make the
incident appear to have been
rehearsed. He even took a
self-confident bow in his state
of undress.
Films
“Garment Jungle”
The kind of realism that
invested “On the Waterfront”
and “A Man Is Ten Feet Tall”
also pervades this Columbia
film —a fictional exposure of
the methods used by standover
gangsters to keep unions out of
the garment-trade in New
York.
Lee Cobb, as a clothing-
manufacturer who has fought
his way up by tough methods
until he is one of the big men in
the game, is so prejudiced
against unionism and all its-
works that he keeps it right' put
of his business; his more-
liberal partner declares force-
fully for unionism and his
intention to support it. Despite
their differences in this regard
the partners are good friends.
Then the partner steps into
a freight-lift and plummets 29
floors to his death. Cobb
believes it to be an accident,
but his son, just taken into the
business, ferrets out that the
partner was killed by a
gangster whom his father has
been paying to keep unionists
out. Then a union-organiser is
beaten to death, and Cobb,
realising where his prejudices
have led him, breaks with the
gangster and lets the union in.
The son collects all necessary
evidence to send the standover
man and his killers to the chair,
but not before his father falls
victim to the criminals.
The central role is tailor-
made for Cobb, with plenty of
opportunities for his highly
torceful and natural style of
acting. Richard Boone, as the
cynical, completely conscience-
less gangster, and Kerwin
Mathews, as the son with a
lining of idealism to his hard-
headedness, give strong sup-
port. Gia Scala, as the fiery
young widow of the murdered
union man, also does good
,work.
At Sydney Capitol.
* ❖ ❖
•‘Carry On, Admiral”
A fast and witty English
farce about a Parliamentary
private-secretary to the First
Sea Lord who meets an old
lieut.-commander friend, and,
following a hectic reunion,
swaps places with him. The
P.p.-s., in the 1.-c.’s uniform, is
bundled unceremoniously on
his cobber’s ship, in command
and awaiting a visit from the
First Sea Lord; the other
fellow, in civvies, has to do
some fast-talking with the
shore Admiral on a political
subject of which he knows
nothing. The accidental firing
of a dummy torpedo by the
bogus lieut.-commander, to
score a direct hit on the First
Sea Lord’s barge, adds to the
amusement.
David Tomlinson leads the
laughs as the dithery P.p.-s., but
only a short nose behind him is
A. E. Matthews, with a gem
of a character-study as the
peppery, absentminded old
Admiral.
At Sydney Embassy.
“The Joker Is Wild”
Frank Sinatra sings in a
nightclub run by a speakeasy
gangster in the tough Chicago
ol the ’twenties. When he
ignores warnings and leaves
to take a better offer at a rival
sow he is done-over by
nife-wielding stooges of the
bigshot, his vocal chords being
mined for further waibling.
Thereafter, he degenerates
into a low comic in burlesque
shows ; he lives on self-pity and
whisky and boorishly mistreats
the two women in his life,
particularly the-one he-marries
Gaynor) and who effects
a temporary rehabilitation for
™ as a patterer at the micro-
Phones of flash night-spots
Co^,‘ S eTcepf" perhaps
when he crawls on hands and
knees, a bloody mess, out of his
bedroom after being knifed,
Eddie Albert seems much
more in character as his
sympathetic but helpless
accompanist,
At Sydney Prince Edward.


The A-M.P. ma„
your communfty is' a
good ma " to know.
A
P field men arranged
i
new life insurance for
their clients in
Australian Mutual Provident Society
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY • GENERAL MANAGER: M. C. BUTTFI ELD
PRINCIPAL BOARD:
CECIL H. HOSKINS, Chairman; S. G. ROWE, Deputy Chairman;
THE HON. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.; G. GORDON RUSSELL; C. G. CRANE;
VINCENT C. FAIRFAX; GEOFFREY H. GRIMWADE.
Every member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by funds exceeding
£345,000,000 which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit of '
the members.
ZI9OB


still express your intentions?
Lev?
r i/-:
The Trustees Executors & Agency
' COMPANY LTO.
fcK*i|»>i<>i«4 ill Vi<t*ria in 1171
TR54.34
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Inevitable fluctuations in the value of assets and other factors may affect
the intentions expressed in a Will. It is, therefore, desirable that you
consult your solicitor and have your Will revised periodically to meet
changing conditions.
At the same time, consider the advantages of appointing The Trustees
Executors and Agency Co. Ltd. as your Executor. Its appointment gains
for your Estate, at a fixed and moderate charge, the services of a company
with over three-quarters of a century’s specialised experience in the
Administration of Estates.
★ Advantages of appointing the Company either alone or jointly with
some trusted relative or friend.
A Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
A Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, snd 1 BLI6H STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital (paid and uncallad) and /Jeserves, £972,812.
A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.6., D. 5.0., M.C.. V.D. (Chairman); W. Sydney Jones;
J. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R. Syme; R. H. Norman, D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.; W. E. M.
Campbell; T. L. Webb.
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman); J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8.,
K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Heffer; W. Sydney Jones; Alan G. Porter.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Amalgamated Wireless (A’sia), Ltd.
'T'HE A.W.A. —Email marriage, first
proposed in 1956, was called-off in
December when the two boards decided
“to defer further consideration of
proposals for a complete pooling of
interests and resources.” As in the best
of broken romances, the parties con-
cerned remain on the friendliest of terms
and will seek “an extension of the close
liaison” which has existed between the
two cos. for some time.
The sharemarket, which took the
announcement of the proposed merger
rather calmly, displayed even less surprise
at the failure of the negotiations.
The smaller of the two cos., in terms
of share-capital, A.W.A. is the largest
manufacturer of radio and television
equipment in Australia. Through its sub-
sidiaries and associates the co. is
interested in practically all applications
of radio and television, the group turning-
out a variety of receiving- and trans-
mitting-equipment, radar-sets, naviga-
tional aids, efc., as well as radio-valves,
cathode-ray tubes and other basic com-
ponents. Radio-serials and feature-pro-
grammes are produced and recorded at
studios in Sydney and Melbourne, while
phonogram records are pressed and
distributed in association with Radio
Corporation of America. Assets include
a string of radio-stations (of which 2CH,
Sydney, is the largest), a substantial
shareholding in one of Sydney’s two com-
mercial TV-stations, and several thousand
patents relating to radio, TV and radar
apparatus.
The telecommunication section of the
business was nationalised in 1946, the
compensation received enabling the return
of 1 Is. 6d. per £1 share and a cash-bonus
of 575. 7d., paid capital dropping to
£418,845. Since then shareholders have
put up £568,882 of fresh share-capital and
£376,719 of premiums, receiving, over the
same period, £1,238,136 in bonus scrip.
Paid capital, all in ords., reached its
present total (£2,225,863) on completion
of a one-for-one bonus-issue early last
term.
Earnings have more than quadrupled
since 1947, the co. using the funds raised
over the 10 years to boost output of
established lines and to finance develop-
ment and production of TV and other
equipment. In the same .period the div.-
rate rose from 8 p.c. to 16 p.c. before
dropping to 9 p.c. after last term’s bonus-
issue.
The introduction of regular TV services
in Melbourne and Sydney has cut sales
of domestic radios by approximately 20
p.c., but A.W.A. was able to capture a
bigger share of the market during the
year to June 30 last and thus offset, to a
large extent, the effects of the overall fall
in demand. It was the television side of
the business, however, which was mainly
responsible for the lift in turnover and
earnings, revenue from all sources rising
by £2,370,000 to £8,185,057, while net
profit jumped by £59,522 (or 20.9 p.c.) to
£343,498. Before arriving at the higher
figure, £208,296 (up £43,910) was “written-
off or reserved” for depreciation and
£1,365,000 (up £546,000) allowed for
income, payroll, land and other taxes:
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1952.. 155,398 11? p.c. = 83,470 71,928 1,398,682
Reserves eapitalised, £125,205 1,273,477
Share premiums, £34,780 . . . . 1,308,257
1953.. 190,985 124 p.c. - 108,685 82,300 1,390,557
Profit sale assets, £25,025 .. .. 1,415,582
1954.. 247,071 15 p.c. = 146,072 100,999 1,516,581
Share premiums, £32,187 .. . . 1,548,768
Added reserves, £3123 • .. .. 1,551,891
1955.. 263,843 15 p.c. = 146,072 117,771 1,669,662
Profit sale assets, £199,653 . . . . 1,869,315
Share-premiums, £2592 . . . . 1,871,907
Revaluation freeholds, £1,003,144 . . 2,875,051
1956.. .283,976 16 p.c. = 178,070 105,906 2,980,957
Reserves capitalised (1 for 1),
£1”, 112,931 1,868,026
Profit sale assets, £57,000 . . . . 1,925,026
1957.. 343,498 9 p.c. = 200,328 143,170 2,068,196
* After deducting intangibles, now £85,811, and
excluding depreciation reserve (now £1,604,217).
Equal to 15.4 p.c. of the bonus-enlarged
capital, compared with 12.7 p.c. of the
same figure in the preceding term, the
earnings covered the 9 p.c. div. with
£143,170 to spare, capital-profits adding
another £57,000 to reserves.
To finance the continuing growth of the
undertaking, £774,137 was borrowed early
last term on 6i p.c. notes, convertible into
ords. in June, 1962, working-capital
increasing by £862,853 to £2,703,089
over the year: •
1955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £1,102,566 £1,112,932 £2,225,863
Reserves .. .. 1,755,473 3,066,768 2,154,007
Depreciation
■ reserve .. .. 1,345,792 1,467,148 1,604,217
Notes .. .. 774,137
Overdraft . . 449,,219
Creditors, etc. .. 1,424,326 1,488,679 2,545,955
Final div.... .. 97,381 122,423 . 111,293
£5,725,538 £7,707,169 £9,415,472
Freeholds, etc.* .. 584,772 1,580,102 1,589,936
Plant, etc.* .. 1,541,709 1,769,593* 2,023,333
Shares ~ .. 303,177 371,106 356,055
Stocks .. .. 2,237,230 2,450,102 3,073,804
Book debts .. 938,106 1,439,427 2,245,135
Cash, etc 34,733 11,028 41,398
Intangibles .. 85,811 85,811 85,811
£5,725,538 £7,707,169
* Subject to depreciation reserve, now £1>60i,217.
There was a rather steep rise in current
assets, and, to a lesser degree, in current
liabilities, the hoard describing these
movements in Stocks (up £623,702), book-
debts (up £805,708) and creditors, etc.
(up £1,057,276), as “normal changes
arising out of the increased sales and
services during the year.”
The immediate outlook is promising.
Turnover has been “well maintained” in
the first half of the current term and the
extension of television services to
Brisbane, Adelaide, Hobart and Perth,
over the next two years, should keep
demand for TV-receivers at a high level.
Meanwhile, electronic devices of various
types are being put to work by an increas-
ing number of industrial and commercial
users.
Keen competition can be expected when
the TV market approaches saturation-
point and, with “the more-distant future”
in mind, the chairman has pointed out the
need for “careful husbanding” of the co.’s
financial resources. At the same time the
co.’s strength and technical skill place it
in a particularly strong position.
Priced at 1-1 s., the f.-p. ss. ords.


would return £4 Is. lOd. p.c. from a 9 p.c.
div. Net tangible asset backing at June
30 last (parent’s accounts) was 9s. Bd.
Olympic Consolidated Industries
nrHE four major Australian tyre-manu-
facturers have all completed, or
practically completed, large expansion
programmes within the last few years,
giving the industry, as a whole, a produc-
tion-capacity somewhat in excess of
immediate demand. The steadily increas-
ing number of vehicles on Australian
roads suggests that these cos. will reap
further benefits from their heavy outlay
on plant, etc., but, largely as a result of
the slip in demand for tyres as initial
equipment on new motor-vehicles, overall
production dropped by approximately
6.4 p.c. over the last financial year.
Although the co. doesn’t disclose its
sales -figures, a lower turnover would
appear to have been one of the factors
behind the fall in the net profit won by
Olympic Consolidated Industries over the
year to June 30 last. This was the third
successive reduction in earnings, but the
unchanged 9 p.c. ord. div. was Well
covered.
Olympic Consolidated Industries was
formed, as a holding co., in 1953,
exchanging scrip with shareholders in the
then 20-year-old Olympic Tyre and
Rubber Co. on a two-for-one basis.
Oldest and largest of the Olympic and
Beaurepaire group of cos., Olympic Tyre
and Rubber Co. produces over a quarter
of the motor-vehicle tyres sold in Aus-
tralia. In 1940 the co. pioneered the
local manufacture of rubber-insulated
cables, passing this section of its business
to Olympic Cables Pty. in 1946. Mainly
concerned with the production of tyres
and insulated cables, the two cos. also
turn out a wide range of rubber and
plastic products, including floor-tiles,
transmission- and conveyor - belting,
plastic tubing and footwear-soling
material, Olympic General Products Pty.
distributing these lines throughout Aus-
tralia. A fourth subsidiary, Beaurepaire
Tyre Service Pty., operates a chain of 31
service-stations (specialising in . tyre-
retreading, etc.) in Victoria, N.S.W.,
South Australia and A.C.T.
Principal manufacturing-centres are at
Footscray and Tottenham in Victoria and
Geebung in Queensland.
The ord. capital of the parent co. has
remained unchanged since formation,
but a large parcel of ss. ords. was placed
on the sharemarket last year (at 6s. 7|d. a
share) following the death of Sir Frank
Beaurepaire, founder of the co. As a
prelude to the issue of 1.5 million £1
prefs., the pref. div.-rate was raised from
5 p.c. to 6 p.c. in 1955, final instalments
on the scrip, received last term, raising
pref. capital to £1,653,467 and total paid
capital to £8,086,996.
The first stage of a building programme
at Tottenham was completed last year,
and to assist in the development of the
site (for the cable co.) 1.5 million £1
7 p.c. notes participating to 9 p.c. were
offered to shareholders and employees in
July, 1956.
Earnings have failed to respond to the
growth of share- and loan-capital over
the last three years, and, after covering
pref.-divs., dropped from 21 p.c. to 16.*
p.c. of ord. capital in 1956 and to 14.6
p.c. in the year to June 30 last:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
t Dividends To Re-
June, Profit. Pref. / —-Ord. serves. Deficit.*
5 p.c.
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
Profit sale assets, £2019 .. .. 599,49(
Tax overprovided, £591 .. .. 598,89£
Reserves*
'55..1,359,500 7,673 9 = 579,018 772,809 173,910
Profit sale assets, £3591 .. .. 177,50]
Tax underprovided, £3013 .. .. 174,48£
Share-issue expenses, £71,722 102,766
Increase in intangibles, £2491 .. 100,275
6 p.c.
'56..1,140,736 83,232 9 = 579,018 478,486 578,761
Tax overprovided, £6136 .. .. 584,897
Profit sale assets, £14,901 .. .. 599,798
Added intangibles, £15,411 .. ... 584,387
'57..1,035,281 97,385 9 = 579,018 358,878 943,265
* Reserves, plus provisions for plant-replacement,
technical development, etc., less intangibles,
£1,551,475 at 30/6/’57.
Down £105,455 at £1,035,281, last term’s
profit was "reckoned after providing
£686,366 (down £128,634) for taxation
and £464,987 (up £71,164) for
depreciation.
The price of raw rubber has declined
slightly over the past year and the recent
adjustments to the rates of primage and
duty on imports should result in a further
small reduction in the cost of the raw
material.
A high level of capital-expenditure was
maintained last term, £1,192,797 going
into fixed assets, depreciation limiting the
increase in book-values to £727,810:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1955. 1956. 1957.
Pref. .. £153,467 £1,553,441 £1,653,467
Ord. .. 6,433,529 6,433,529 6,433,529
Reserves .. 687,449 1,094,791 1,474,706
Prov. plant re-
placement and
contingencies,
etc 1,020,034 1,020,034 1,020,034
Minority interest 4,049 2,940
Registered notes 164,660 1,087,901
Mortgage .. 868 847 5,068
Overdraft .. 1,410,753 1,419.936 301,303
Creditors .. 1,792,796 2,316,806 2,435,902
Tax prov. .. 778,789 823,154 . 686,366
Final div. .. 293,346 328,345 330,846
£12,575,080 £15,155,543 £15,432,062
Freeholds .. 1,455,928 1,873,253 2,249,812
Leaseholds . . 40,063 35,964 48,995
Plant, etc. .. 1,438,036 1,738,675 2,076,895
Debtors ..' 2,124,037 2,563,145 2,825,327
Stock .. .. 5,979,018 7,405*110 6,676,048
Cash and invest-
ments .. 4,425 3,332 3,510
Intangibles .. 1,533,573 1,536,064 1,551,475
» £12,575,080 £15,155,543 £15,432,062
Proceeds of the note-issue (completed
early in the current term), coupled with a
fall in stocks (down £729,062), provided
a large part of the funds needed for the
capital-outlay and the big £1,118,633 cut
in the overdraft. Stocks, which would
include lead and copper held by the
cable co., are shown at the lower of cost
or market values, less a £900,000 provision
against price-fluctuations.
Reserves have benefited from the
moderate div.-rate and, although subject
to £1,551,475 of intangibles, have the
support of a substantial provision against
the increased cost of plant-replacement,
etc. Including this provision with
reserves, consolidated accounts showed a
net tangible cover of £5 9s. 3d. for the £1
prefs. and ss. 9d. for the ss. ords. at
balance-date. The prefs. yield £6 Is. 6d.
p.c. at 19s. 9d., the ords. at 7s. 9d. return-
ing £5 16s. Id. p.c. from a 9 p.c. div.
%
Macßobertson Miller Airlines, Ltd.
TJNDERCURRENTS in the national-
ism of hither-Asia have lent a new
urgency to the task of developing Aus-
tralia’s north-western areas and, inciden-
tally, add weight to Macßobertson Miller
Airlines’ bid for Government support in
financing the replacement of its super-
annuated fleet, which at present consists
of four DC3 passenger-craft, a DC3
freighter, three Doves and three Ansons.
Not that operating finances are any-
thing but sound ; but'the ever-rising%:ost
of a modern commercial aircraft —
between a quarter-million and three-
quarters of a million pounds —coupled
with a short operational life is a serious
barrier to the expansion of smaller con-
cerns, generous depreciation allowances
notwithstanding.
As a result of the merger in 1955 with
Airlines (W.A.), Ltd., the present line
covers an unduplicated network of
20,263 air-miles, with 111 scheduled
touchdowns, ranging from Albany on the
Bight to Darwin in the far north. As a
gesture to the national interest (and with
an eye to the future), the co. accepts losses
on some one-way routes, although a
measure of Federal relief is received in
respect to outback services. Not least im-
portant is the airline’s role as an auxiliary
to the Flying-doctor Service. In emer-
gency cases, flights are diverted and
special services provided to outlying
stations.
For the 12 months to June 30, 1957,
gross revenue at £1,045,289 was slightly
higher than for the preceding term, and
gross expenditure slightly lower at
£969,297. A more significant reduction
in running-costs was offset by a new
superannuation scheme, which involves
an additional outlay of £IO,OOO a year to
bring the total annual company contri-
bution to £26,000. Nevertheless, a
moderate increase of £6331 brought pre-
tax earnings for the period to £75,992.
In the additional three months to Sept.
30, the new balance-date, pre-tax profits
received an increment of £34,731, with
gross revenue rising to £1,321,646 for the
fifteen months.
The provision of £47,000 for income-
tax and £54,895 for depreciation left net
earnings for the protracted term at
£62,357, out of which an unaltered 1\ p.c.
interim of £35,712 was paid on September
20:
To Re- Re-
June Profit. f Dividend— N serves, serves.
SO, £ £ £ £
Tax overprovided, £2l .. .. .. 1,326
1956 ..38,023 7J p.c. = 35,712. 2,311 3,637
Sept., 30,
Capital profits, £4291 .. .. .. 7,928
1957*.. 62,357 7i p.c. = 35,712 26,645 34,573
Prelim, exp. w/off,' £IO,IBO .. .. 24,393
* 15 months to Sept. 30, 1957.
Intangibles of £8948 were cleared from
the books, leaving a reserve-balance of
£24,393.
Latest accounts show the co. to be


JFailJi ihc
% . ' / t
Fulitr^c
k
Inauguration of the first “around the world”
regular passenger flight by Qantas Empire Airways
is something for Australians to applaud, and it is
pleasing to know that the Commonwealth
Government is issuing a special air mail stamp to
mark the occasion.
There is a singular appropriateness about a
stamp —with its adhering qualities—for signalising
such an event as this, and you will see the point of
that when I tell you this story.
It came to me from Sir Hudson Fysh, chairman
of Q.E.A. Discussing the company’s origins, he
told me on one occasion of a clause in the original
agreement that Qantas had with Imperial Airways
(now 8.0.A.C.) for the partnership that began the
Australia-to-London air route in 1934. It read:
“It is the intention of both parties that each
shall have a ‘square deal’ in the sense that that
expression is understood by fair and reasonable
minded men.”
There you have a classic in simple agreement—
and above all, a proclamation of faith in honest
dealing. And this partnership, remember, endured
through peace and war, and laid the foundations
for a still greater future in the, enterprise.
I have pointed up this example to show how
largely the faith factor enters into happier human
relations. Take the most carefully drawn contract,
and without trust on either side it is only as strong
as its weakest word. But even a verbal agreement,
when made between parties who respect and trust
one another, can be as binding as anything that
ever bore seal and signature.
The moral I see for us in this, as we go about
our Australian occasions, is that while we should
be true to overselves in whatever work we are
doing, we should also be fair to the other party;
for if a “square deal” means anything at all, it
means both a mutual generosity of spirit and a
sharing of the fruits that come from a common
endeavour.
// //asf^f s
operating well within its
means:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
June 30, Sept. 30,
1956. 1957.
Share capital .. £476,157 £476,157
Reserves .. •. 3,637 24,393
Creditors .. .. 115,719 122,660
Tax provision .. 35,668 47,202
Dividend .. .. 35,712 *
£608,893 £670,412
Freeholds and lease-
holds .. .. 140,100 143,023
Aircraft and
accessories . . 181,069 142,409
Plant and equipment 72,229 72,526
Shares in Air Beef Pty. 6,500 6,500
Stocks, spares, etc. 75,753 75,625
Debtors .. .. 117,746 115,171
Cash, bonds . . 64,548 115,158
Intangibles ... .. 8,948
£668,893 £670,412
* Paid 20/9/’57, £35,712.
Cash and bonds total £115,158,
a rise of £50,610. Valued at
£142,409, aircraft and appur-
tenances (spare engines, etc.)
are included at cost-/ess-depre-
ciation, except in the case of
Douglas craft, which are at
l-7-’55 valuation, less depreci-
ation. Freeholds and lease-
holds are shown at cost, less
depreciation on certain build-
ings.
Freight - revenue figures
largely in consolidated income,
with beef providing the major
payload. The DC3 freighter
is based on Glenroy, in the
where the pioneer-
ing affiliate, Air Beef Pty.,
operates a snap-freezing and
prepackaging works. With the
long trek to the coastal killing-
centre obviated, a reduction of
two years in the marketable
age of beef has been made
possible, giving cattle-running
in the north-west a new slant.
A similar centre is planned
for Derby.
Links with southern facilities
are also provided for the
whaling and banana industries
at Carnarvon, the asbestos
project at Wittenoom, and the
B.H.P. iron-ore leases at
Yampi Sound, to mention the
more important developments
in this area. Then, too, there
are the dollar-earning pearl-
and cray-fisheries at Broome
and Geraldton respectively,
while a large-scale rice-culture
scheme is afoot at Liveringa.
Immense sums have been
poured into oil-search over the
past six years, and attention is
at present focused on the West
Australian Petroleum Pty.’s
operations at Learmonth, on
Exmouth Gulf. M.M. Airlines
co-operates closely with Wapet
in this venture, carrying-out
geophysical-survey flights in
addition to routine transport-
flights. Discovery of oil in
commercial quantities would
broaden the co.’s purview
enormously, but could bring
added strains as well.
Backed by tangible assets of
10s. 6d. a 10s. share, M.M.’s
scrip, which is widely held,
mainly in W.A., is currently
quoted at 6s. lOd. on the Perth
’Change, returning a yield of
11.1 p.c.
Adelaide Cement Co., Ltd.
on the assump-
tion that Adelaide Cement
must eventually apportion a
larger slice of its profits to
shareholders, investors are
currently offering 365. for the
co.’s f.-p. £1 ords., accepting
an immediate return of
£4 Bs. lid. from an 8 p.c. div.
Reconstruction and extension
of Adelaide Cement’s plant at
Birkenhead (S.A.), completed
in 1953, was followed by a
spectacular leap in earnings
(from 11.9 p.c. of ord. capital
in 1953 to 28.1 p.c. in 1954),
but almost 75 p.c. of the record
profits won over the past four
years has been reinvested in the
business, shareholders receiv-
ing a modest 8 p.c. on their
holdings. Further additions to
plant, estimated to cost approxi-
mately £280,000, and a large
outside debt appear to be the
main obstacles in the way of a
bigger div.-rate. A 4 p.c.
interim-div. is payable in
February.
Share-capital, £15,000 in 8
p.c prefs. and £300,000 in f.-p.
£1 ords., has remained un-
changed since 1946, debenture-
loans from the State Bank of
S.A. providing most of the
finance needed for reconstruc-
tion of the Birkenhead plant.
Totalling £909,488 at the end
of the 1953 term, the amount
owing to the bank had been
reduced to £633,005 by the end
of last term, while £llO,OOO
had been sent to a debenture-
redemption reserve.
Kiln-output exceeded 150,000
tons (the rated capacity of the
plant) during the year to May
31 last, and although a price-
reduction of 10s. 6d. per ton,
made halfway through the pre-
ceding term, remained in force,
higher production pushed up
net profit by £2369 to
£97,895:
r— To Re- Re-
May Profit. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
31, 8 p.c. 6 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
’51..21,060 1200 18,000 1,860 73,895
’52..24,511 1200 18,000 5,311 79,206
’53..36,914 1200 18,000 17,714 96,920
8 p.c.
’54..85,765 1200 24,000 60,565 157,485
Tax overprovided, £30.000. . 187,485
’55..92,227 1200 24,000 67,027 254,512
’56..95,526 1200 24,000 70,326 324,838
’57..97,895 1200 24,000 72,695 397,533
Covering the pref. div. and
32.2 p.c. on ord. capital, the


ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Maters of' Classifiers,
Water Filters. Steam Valves,
etc.
INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant super-
vision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Est. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY BU 3445
108 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - MU 4081
profit was calculated after pro-
viding an unchanged £125,000
for depreciation and £BO,OOO
(up £5000) for taxation at pre-
Budget rates.
The balance-sheet discloses
a sound financial structure, the
co. having approximately 15
years to pay-off the debenture-
loan, which, in the meanwhile,
carries a relatively low rate of
interest. The figure shown
against creditors, etc., includes
an undisclosed amount pro-
vided against accrued main-
tenance - costs as well as
£17,720 deposited by employees
under a profit - sharing
scheme:
Paid capital— 1956. 1957.
Pref £15,000 £15,000
Ord 300,000 300,000
Reserves ... 324,838 397,533
Mortgages .. 16,195 15,487
Debentures . . 633,074 . 633,005
Creditors, etc. . . 192,246 196,948
Tax provision .. 94,253 99,428
Final divs. .. 12,600 12,600
£1,588,206 £1,670,001
Property, plant,
etc 1,054,938 1,104,444
Shares .. .. 750 750
Stocks .. .. 184,424 206,639
Debtors.. .. 115,208 163,237
Cash, bonds .. 232,886 i 194,931
£1,588,206 £1,670,001
Expenditure on plant and
equipment during the term
added-up to £174,506, the
£280,000 which the board
expects to put into fixed assets
over the next two years cover-
ing completion of an electro-
static precipitator (in course of
erection at the end of the term),
an additional cement-mill and
replacement of the crushing-
plant at Klein’s Point quarry.
At balance-date the £1 ords.
had a net tangible asset-backing
of 465. 6d.
Fears that plant-extensions
by the two South Australian
cement-manufacturers would
lead to marketing difficulties
have, so far, proved un-
warranted, and while a small
quantity of cement is taken by
Victorian buyers, the bulk of
the S.A. output is sold within
the State.
Planned increases in produc-
tion by the big Victorian pro-
ducer, Australian Portland
Cement Pty., may make inter-
state sales more difficult, but,
judging by the level of
industrial activity in S.A. and
the number of large commercial
buildings scheduled for erection
in Adelaide over the next few
years, a weakening in local
demand seems unlikely.
Cemac Associated, Ltd.
SPECIALISATION allied to
the building trades is
usually an unprofitable com-
bination when credit gets tight,
but the flexibility of this
mercurial little group has
enabled it to come through a
difficult trading period with net
earnings practically un-
diminished at £20,037, calcu-
lated after providing £11,556
for taxation and £1219 for
depreciation. Previous earnings
were £21,901 in 1955 and
£23,053 in 1956, adjusted to a
public-co. basis.
With home-building ham-
strung by credit-restrictions,
compensatory outlets were and
are being provided by the
current spate of large-scale
commercial building projects,
an outstanding example being
the recently completed M.L.C.
building at North Sydney. The
fabrication and installation of
internal modulated partitioning
is the group’s best money-
spinner.
Cemac is entirely a
merchandising and contracting
concern, importing and pro-
cessing plywoods and other
wood-products for diverse
applications, including the
furniture and boat-building
trades. Developed from a small
partnership formed in 1945, the
co. was listed on the Stock
Exchange in May last year,
consequent upon the placement
with the public of 80,000 ss.
stock-units, or 25 p.c. of issued
capital (£80,000).
First accounts show the
group to be soundly based.
Outside funds loom rather
large, comprising mainly trade-
creditors, £102,695. But current
assets at £195,994 are £62,720
higher than current liabilities,
and include a £65,260 at-or-
below-cost inventory balance,
for which a five-week turnover
period is claimed. Book-debts
stand at £125,442.
Investment in plant is negli-
gible and. fixed assets, £36,494,
includes freeholds, £25,513, at
valuation (Feb., 1955), plus
additions at cost.
Only £BOOO of consolidated
profits went into the 10 p.c.
dividend, which would give the
stock a 7.1 p.c. yield on last
week’s quotes of 7s. Id. a unit.
Net tangible cover is 6s. 3d.
N.A.U.C.
T>Y b'u y i n g a majority
interest in N.A.U.C. from
Atlas Corp. of U.S.A. at a
price based “on the estimated
surplus liquid-asset value” of
the shares concerned, Aber-
foyle Tin, N.L., has obtained
control of liquid assets woKth
roughly twice the considera-
tion payable to the vendor co.
A motion to wind - up
N.A.U.C. was carried at the
annual meeting last month at
which Atlas Corp. refrained
from voting. A special reso-
lution implementing this
decision will need the support
of 75 p.c. of the votes cast,
and it is understood that
Aberfoyle Tin will vote
against, and thus defeat, such
a resolution.
No doubt profitable use can
be made of N.A.U.C.’s
remaining assets (estimated to
be worth over £400,000), but
it would, of course, be more
than optimistic to expect a
return anywhere near com-
mensurate with the co.’s
£1,250,000 paid capital.
The sharemarket places* a
not unreasonable valuation on
the co. by pricing the f.-p. ss.
ords. at Is. 6d.
Associated Minerals
'T'HE first quarterly interim
A div. from Associated
Minerals Consolidated, Ltd.,
backs up the board’s opinion
that even bigger divs. can be
expected from the co. in the
current year.
Associated Minerals paid
its maiden div. (40 p.c.) in the
1955-56 term, following-up
with a 60 p.c. distribution
last term. The quarterly
interim, paid last November,
was at the rate of 100 p.c. per
annum.
Registered in Sydney in
1953, the co. extracts rutile,
zircon, etc., from beach-sands
at Southport (Q.), Cudgen
(N.S.W.) and Stradbroke
Island (Q.). Paid capital is
£160,500, all in f.-p. ss. shares.
Contracts with “reliable
buyers” have afforded the co.
some protection against the
steep fall in rutile prices, and
the board considers that
existing arrangements
“indicate profitable opera-
tions for the next few years.”
A bigger output and higher
prices lifted proceeds from
sales to a record £764,432 last
term (to June 30), net earnings
jumping by £140,909 to
£223,512, after providing
£17,320 for taxation {nil in
preceding year) and £65,000
(up £29,000) for amortisation
and depreciation
Expenditure on plant and
development amounted to
£247,000 over tbie term, and
by June, 1957, production-
capacity had risen to 14,000
tons rutile and 6000 tons
zircon a year. In anticipation
of a stronger demand for high-
grade zircon the treatment
plant will be modified to
improve both the quality and
quantity of zircon produced.
At June 30, liabilities
amounted to £172,129, exceed-
ing current assets by £52,498.
A reduction in the rate of
capital-expenditure over the
current term should improve
the position.
The f.-p. ss. ords. are
currently fetching around
225. to return 22.7 p.c. on a
100 p.c. div. basis.
Coffs Harbour Rutile, N.L.
CTNCE rutile prices slumped,
few beach-mining cos.
have disclosed the prices at
which their output has been
sold. However, Coffs Harbour
Rutile, N.L., possibly with an
eye to reviving shareholders’
spirits, has announced that
the 1310 tons of rutile shipped
by the co. over the last four
months of 1957 had an f.o.b.
value of £79,357.
This works out at an average
price of about £6O 11s. 6d. a
ton, at which figure the co.
should be able to show a small
profit.
The zircon circuit at the co.’s
Coffs Harbpr plant is now in
operation and 300 tons of
zircon are awaiting shipment.


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
PACIFIC
ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
(INC. IN N.S.W.)
TERM DEPOSITS
INTEREST RATE
TERM PER ANNUM
Interest paid quarterly, free of exchange, within the Common-
wealth on the last days of March, June, September and December,
PARTICULARS MAY BE OBTAINED FROM
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange
and The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
or
PACIFIC ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
54a Pitt Street,
Sydney BU 2884
35 Ratbdown Street,
Melbourne, N. 3 FJ 6035.
DIRECTORS:
Frank H. Edmonds (Chairman),
J. R. Faviell.
AUDITORS:
Flack & Flack,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.).
N. E. Challoner,
K. M. McCaw.
BANKERS:
Commercial Banking Co. of
Sydney, Limited.
ADVISORY BROKERS:
Ralph W. King & Yuill,
113 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
Ravensthorpe Copper
/'ANLY one-third of the
15,000 tons of ore and
dump - material treated by
Ravensthorpe Copper last term
was taken from the under-
ground workings, the balance
coming from the Elverdton,
Beryl and Cattlin dumps.
As the dump-material proved
to be of a much lower grade
(about 1 p.c. copper) than
expected, calls of 2s. and Is. a
share were necessary, last
Eebruary and August respec-
tively, to enable completion of
the plant-installation and the
development of the mine.
Nevertheless the board,
allowing for the present
depressed level of copper prices,
expected operations to “be
established on a profitable
basis” by last month, when, it
was anticipated, 1000 tons of
underground ore would be
brought to the surface each
week. (The mill treated 4386
tons of ore for 229 tons of
copper-concentrates in the four
weeks to December 24.)"
Formed as Western Uranium
Mines, N.L., in 1954, the co.
abandoned its search for
uranium in the following year
in favor of working low-grade
copper-deposits around the old
Elverdton mine at Ravens-
thorpe, W.A. A treatment-
plant with a capacity of 5000
tons of ore per four-weekly
period went into operation last
April, but plans for doubling
the rate of throughput (involv-
ing a second ball-mill) appear
to have been shelved until the
board can knock finances into
better shape.
Possible ore-reserves in the
vicinity of 1.5 million tons were
“indicated” by a diamond-drill-
ing programme carried out
during the 1956 term (the co.
basing its plans at that time
on a recoverable-grade of 3 p.c.
copper) but no detailed
estimate of ore-reserves has
been published as yet.
In the period between April
17 and June 30 of last year,
revenue from the sale of con-
centrates was £23,655, mining
and treatment cost amounting
to £33,423 and mine-overheads
to £2744. This left a working-
deficit of £12,512.
Over the full year, expendi-
ture on development (£24,044),
administrative expenses
(£11,108) and a £2774 provision
for depreciation were charged
against the mine-development
account.
At June 30, the balance-sheet
showed current assets of
£30,299 against current
liabilities of £68,599, deferred
liabilities adding up to another
£137,429. Intangibles, includ-
ing preliminary expenses, the
p. and 1. debit and mining-
leases, etc., totalled £269,119,
while £114,221 stood to the
debit of the mine account.
Fully-paid vendor shares
account for £207,500 of the
£670,625 paid capital, 10s.
shares paid to 6s. making up
the balance. The contribs. sold
last week at 2s. 3d.
Iron-sands
A/T R. HACKETT, N.Z.
Minister of Mines, is
keen that no time should be
wasted in getting an iron-
sands industry established
in N.Z. After reading reports
on proposals which have been
made, he said he would bring
them urgently before Cabinet.
“If we could find oil and get
an iron industry established in
N.Z. we would be saved,” he
said.
After spending nearly £1
million in investigating the
South Taranaki area, Shell oil-
prospectors have found
“promising ground,” and a
contract will soon be let for
the sinking of a deep well, to
10,000 ft. or 11,000 ft.
Farm Outlook
VfANUFACTURING is
playing an increasingly
important role as an exporter,
but more must be looked for
from the farmer.
The Australia and New
Zealand Bank makes this
point in its latest quarterly
survey.
The survey says that despite
recent market weakness, there
appears to be real incentives
for greater farm production.
It is important that these
should not be offset by national
economic policies which raise
costs in relation to other
farm-products countries.
Lincoln Electric Bonus
r F'HE Lincoln Electric Co.
distributed cheques total-
ling £52,000 among 174
employees in an annual bonus
on December 19. The co. is
well known throughout Aus-
tralian primary- and secondary-
industry for its welding-
machines and electrodes, which
are produced for both rural
and industrial use.
It was the 16th bonus paid
by the co., which is a pioneer
of incentive management.
Lincoln’s first bonus was in
1941, and to date £440,000 has
been paid. Since 1952 a total
of £304,000 has been dis-
tributed. In this five-year
period the bonus per employee
has averaged a total of around
£2lOO. These figures do not
include production-bonus pay-
ments, which average 25 p.c.
to 85 p.c. over normal wages,
sales commissions or super-
annuation, which are paid in
addition to wages.
“The achievement of our
people to the position of being
the highest-paid producers in
Australia is a direct result of
their contribution through
ideas, suggestion and co-opera-
tion towards making our
products at a lower cost so
that they can be sold at a lower
price to more and more users,”
said W. I. Miskoe, managing-
director of Lincoln Electric.
“Because the organisation has
been successful in both hold-
ing, and in some cases reducing,
the manufacturing costs, it has
been possible both to increase
our market in Australia and
further develop our export
business to eight different
countries where we compete
against world competition.”
Miskoe believes that “as yet
we have only scratched the
surface of the abilities that
exist within our people. As
we make further progress in
this direction so should
our manufacturing efficiency
increase, as will the success of
the individual rise proportion-
ately.”
Since 1934 the American-
owned associated co. in Cleve-
land, U.S.A., has paid-out over
80-million dollars in bonuses
to employees, who number
nearly 1400. These payments
are not simply a handout, but
are earned by each individual
and distributed according to
each employee’s efforts during
the year.


The Mast on
the Handkerchief
By A. B. SHERLOCK
(6)
[Previous instalments have told
the story of Griffo’s fantastic
boxing career, from his being
“king” of The Rocks push in
Sydney, to meeting the world
champions in the U.S., fighting
amazing fights although doing his
“training” in the saloons.]
GRIFFO’S talent for
indecorum was widely
and profanely recog-
nised.
Early in 1896 the glad news
got around that he intended to
leave New York. This moved
one pressman to write: “The
local sports are preparing to
celebrate his exodus with a
parade and a barbecue.
Nuisances are plentiful in the
metropolis, but Griffo has
never been equalled. I offer
the citizens of St. Paul my
heartfelt sympathy, as I under-
stand that is to be his destina-
tion when he departs from
here.”
But. he did not depart; he
was beginning to cling to New
York a$ obstinately as he had
once clung to Sydney.
Instead, he made a match
with the colored welterweight
Charlie McKeever, a highly
accomplished battler from
Philadelphia, and trained
“fairly religiously.”
All the same, he weighed
lOst. (a stone too heavy) to
McKeever’s lOst. 51b. of superb
condition. George Dixon, who
was looking on with Ted
Alexander, shook his head as
he watched his old rival
embark on this lopsided
endeavor.
“Ain’t it a shame?” he com-
mented to Ted Alexander, the
man who took Griffo to
America. “He never gets half
well, and goes so far out of his
[weight] class.”
This was a 20-round match
before the Empire Club, on
April 13, 1896, and in addition
to being overmatched, Griffo
was handicapped by a cold.
But his native brilliance offset
the odds. Up to the 18th round
the battling was even, but it
was obvious who was better
fitted to last the distance.
Griffo doubled-up in discom-
fort from a hard drive to the
stomach. “Too much beer!”
he grunted. In the 19th he
chopped a short right inside
McKeever’s left hook and
brought him to his knees.
It was a dying effort; Griffo
did not have another kick left
in him. Throughout the 20th
he could do no more than stall
and wearily defend himself.
He saw the round out, but the
decision, by a slim margin, was
McKeever’s.
Griffo did not dispute it; in
fact, he always spoke well of
McKeever, with whom he
fought a draw in the following
year.
He did, however, startle the
whole city by signing the
pledge for twelve months.
SOBER, Griffo was a brisk
and unfeeling tradesman.
He administered sound trounc-
ings to Jack Everhardt, Billy
Ernst and colored Sam
Tonkins, at Brooklyn.
Everhardt, who had just
defeated Horace Leeds, and
Ernst, who had a reputation
for hard hitting, were top-flight
lightweights. Tonkins was a
welter. All of these scraps
were prearranged draws.
Still virtuous, Griffo went to
Buffalo and on July 11 tackled
Everhardt again, this time over
20 rounds. The result was
another draw, but critics
praised the high polish of his
performance. It was about the
only satisfaction he got from
the affair. The takings were
$2OOO, expenses roughly half
of that, and by the time Griffo’s
bondsmen and hangers-on had
been satisfied, there was not a
dollar left for the breadwinner.
Everhardt, incidentally, in the
same year gave champion
Lavigne a terrific battle.
Discouraged by this business
reverse, Griffo let go his hold
on the water-wagon and back-
slid into the ranks of the un-
repentant. He hit New York
with a speeding offence rare in
the naughty but pedestrian
’nineties.
He and another playboy,
after priming themselves at
Coney Island, pirated a buggy
and pair and took off at a
gallop for Brooklyn.
With reins and whip, Griffo
bowled the outfit along at a
pace equalled in those days
only by crack fire-engine teams,
and foiled all attempts to head
them off. This headlong Ben
Hur stuff lasted only as long as
the old buggy held together,
and the charioteers were im-
pounded. The award was
twenty-five days.
“Griffo,” one sports-writer
announced, without much
surprise, “has broken loose
fropi his vows.”
W. W. Naughton, the lead-
ing boxing commentator Of the
day, had a little earlier been
lauding Griffo as “the
Paderewski of the ring.” The
shock brought on an elegiac
turn:
Alas, how easily things go wrong —
A. cocktail too many, a beer too
long —
Then a whirl of pleasure, a blizzard
of pain
And is on the bum again.
AS it happened, Griffo was
in a lot of bother. The
slow-moving apparatus of the
Law, which had been closing
in on him, now caught him up.
The charge of assault on a
boy, William Gottlieb, at
Coney Island, had been hang-
ing over his head. He had been
on bail for some months, at a
reputed figure of $5OOO, and
his lawyer had organised the
customary delays. But even
legal procrastination runs out:
he finally came up for trial
before Judge Aspinall and
pleaded guilty. His counsellor
reminded the court that, at the
time of the offence, Griffo had
been on a prolonged bender.
Griffo took an unreliable
guess at his age and declared
that he was 27 and had been
born in Sydney. When asked
what his occupation was, he
grinned and looked at the floor.
“Fighting, I suppose.” He
admitted that he could neither
read nor write, and that he
occasionally drank to excess.
Sentencing him, the judge
said: “Griffo, I consider you
one of‘the best professional
boxers in the world, barring
none, not even Corbett. It is a
pity you can’t leave liquor
alone and rise to that eminence
as a skilful boxer, which I
have no doubt you might
attain.... I could send you to
prison for twenty years for the
offence to which you have
pleaded guilty. I don’t think
you are vicious, but careless
and full of animal life. You
are without sufficient self-
control to restrain yourself.
You will go to the penitentiary
for one year.”
This direct utterance rocked
Griffo. He asked a court
official the judge’s name, and
growled, “I like that bloke. I
want to shake hands with him.”
He was taken to King’s County
Penitentiary.
Everybody except Griffo
was delighted about the out-
come. Journalists told their
readers that it was the oppor-
tunity of a lifetime for him.
“He has been assigned to hard
work which in twelve months
will put him in superb fighting
fix.”
The general opinion seemed
to be that the whole thing was
a dazzling stroke of luck for
Griffo. A syndicate of long-
range sportsmen guaranteed
$20,000 to back him against
any man in the world as soon
as he was released. Challengers
at lOst. had to find even money,
but lighter men could come in
at extended odds.
Reports of his progress
drifted out of the penitentiary
from time to time. He was
chalking-up all sorts of good
resolutions. “Griffo will marry
and settle down.” He would,
naturally, never touch liquor
again. Working in the engine-
room, he was strong and
healthy. Prison fare was agree-
ing with him. To vary matters
a little another report explained
that he did not sit at the
prisoners’ board, but enjoyed
a special menu by courtesy of
political friends outside.
HE was freed on June 12,
1897, and left the prison
gates wearing a well-fitting


When the family
banks with the C.B.C,
m
yyHEN the family banks
with The Commercial
Banking Company of Sydney Limited it enjoys
traditionally helpful and friendly advice. The
Bank’s many extra services are also available to help
you and those in your care.
¥
The C.B.C. Savings Bank
Limited makes convenient and
simple savings facilities avail-
able to all members of the
family,
Deposits in the C.B.C .
Savings Bank are guaranteed
by the parent company.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK
LIMITED
blue serge suit* russet shoes
and a straw hat. His current
manager, Hugnie Behan, met
him with news of a match in
three days’ time with Tommy
Ryan of Philadelphia, at the
Greenwood Club, New York.
Griffo’s eyes and complexion
were clear, and he appeared
well, even if overweight. His
associates looked him over
anxiously. Was it true that
this neatly-dressed young man
was, as advertised, a reformed
character —or was the old devil
lurking underneath?
Their perplexity was short-
lived. The next day, which
happened to be a Sunday,
Griffo started to celebrate his
return to freedom. He “got
amongst the skirt-dancers and
giddy' soubrettes of Coney
Island” —and began drinking
as if all the time he had lost
was a reproach.
By the following night he
was extensively stewed.
Wandering into Henderson’s
Concert Hall, he climbed on
the stage and chased the
performers off into the wings.
In command of the platform,
he made a garbled speech, the
general sense of which seemed
to be that he could whip any
man in the house. Once more
he was arrested.
Prison-life had left him
short of a gallop, and it was
a drooping celebrant who came
up to be fined the next morn-
ing. He was due to fight Ryan
10 rounds the same evening,
and his handlers bundled him
into a Turkish-bath and prayed
for the best.
This was one occasion when
Griffo handicapped . himself
out of the event. Onlookers
noted that he was hog-fat and
in no condition for battle. He
might have overcome that
disability alone, but combined
with a deadly hangover, plus
the fact that he had been a
stranger to boxing for nearly
a year, it was too much even
for him.
For two rounds he sparred
cleverly, and then blew up.
The Philadelphian sailed in at
the start of the third round,
and made Griffo bleed freely
from nose and mouth. He
pounded him with a heavy
swing, and Griffo stopped
fighting. Pulling off his gloves,
he spoke to the startled
referee:
“Gorblimey, I can’t fight
worth a lick. Give the bloke
the decision!”
Excusing himself later,
Griffo claimed that he had
warned the promoters that he
(Continued on page 39)


Harkness at War
By E. O. SCHLUNKE
D URING the winter of
1944, at a small town in
the wheat- and sheep-
farming districts of
N.S.W., a couple of dozen
punctual businessmen and a
smaller number of farmers
stood enduring the cold wind
on the footpath outside a
hotel.
All were thinly disguised
with Army hats worn in an
unsoldierly manner, and the
green uniforms of the Volun-
teer Defence Corps, a body
composed of men over military
age or tied to essential occu-
pations, who were being trained
at weekends with a meagre
issue of obsolete weapons to
save their country should the
Japanese overrun the regular
army.
They were a little more tense
than for their usual parades.
This was an emergency. A
number of Italian prisoners-of-
war released on parole to work
' 6n farms had escaped into a
range of timber-covered hills,
and the V.D.C. had been called
out to assist in their recapture.
While the men waited for the
pursuit to be organised by their
officers, they watched another
of their unit approaching;
Harkness, the newsagent, a
thin, stooped man in his fifties,
with a tense, concentrated look
on his heavily lined face. A
few of the farmers exchanged
covertly amused glances at the
prospect of Harkness capturing
anyone, but most comported
themselves gravely ; a man with
as much money as Harkness
deserved to be treated with
respect.
Harkness peered hard at the
group through his thick-lensed
•spectacles, made a rapid, self-
righteous calculation of the
number of men present, then
asked in a harsh, complaining
voice, “Where are the others?”
Several men nodded towards
the adjacent hotel, where a
sympathetic landlord had
opened his bar a few hours
early for the benefit of the
,corps, some of whom, as he
had suggested frivolously,
might never patronise his
establishment again.
“I’m going inside. To get
out of the wind,” said Hark-
ness, and the others nodded
understandingly because,
although he was known to be
an abstainer, he was a man who
did not enjoy the best of
health.
•The men inside were mostly
farmers with faces tanned and
reddened by wind and weather,
and large hands firmly clutch-
ing their rum-and-coffees.
They were leaning heavily on
the bar for comfort, and com-
plaining.
“Could have been out on my
tractor and done a couple of
rounds by now.”
“I’d’ye had five acres Sown.”
“Wasting a whole day.”
“Be worth it if we get our
Italians back. Mine' was a
good tractor-driver.”
“Why don’t we get this thing
started? A man will never get
his crop sown.”
One of them opened the
door to look at the inactivity in
the street, then returned and
leaned more heavily on the
bar. He pushed his hat back
off his forehead and said with
emphatic deliberation.
“You know what I’ve been
thinking? Well, I’ll tell you.
The right man to be in charge
of this stunt is Lacey.”
Harkness flinched at the
name. He suspected a joke in
the worst possible taste, aimed
at discomfiting him, because
in that deplorable country-
town way. they would be sure
to know exactly the relation-
ship Lacey and Hark-
ness’s daughter. But no one
laughed, or even smiled
furtively, as far as Harkness
could observe. Then someone
else said:
“If anyone knows those hills,
it's Lacey.”
“He’s been over them a hun-
dred times.”
“He always captains the fox-
drives they have there.”
“A fox-drive would be the
way to catch those lties. If a
fox can’t slip through, what
hope would they have?”
“That’s the way all right.
And Lacey’s the man. We’ll
get him to run it.”
nrO Harkness’s astonishment
they appeared to be in
earnest, disregarding in a
juvenile manner the elaborate
structure of authority in all
branches of the army. He felt
it his duty to enlighten them
before they became too
enamored of their absurd idea.
“But ,it’s impossible,” he said
in his precise, authoritative
voice. “Lacey has no rank.”
The farmers turned their
heads slowly to stare at him.
Only the man who had first
made the suggestion spoke,
but Harkness could see the
concurrence on all the other
faces.
“Rank be damned. We want
to get those lties back and put
them to work.”
He could feel their amused
scorn of him as a fussing
townsman. It angered him
nearly as much as the tolerant
manner in which they spoke of
the- escaped prisoners; as if
they were prepared to take
them back to their farms
unpunished.
To Harkness the escape was
an unimaginable scandal, even
though he had predicted it in
his angry protests to the easy-
going control-centre. To him
it was an affront that the
Italians should have been re-
leased from the prison-camp at
all, and a ten times worse one
to allow them so much free-
dom that Lacey could bring
them into his shop, introduce
them to his daughter and fill the
place with their foreign laugh-
ter and their unintelligible con-
versation. None of the farmers


was half as eager for the recap-
ture of the escapees as Hark-
ness ; none so impatient to be
going, and none so unfitted for
the strenuous exertion neces-
sary.
The recapture was actually
the responsibility of Captain
Atkins, the officer-in-charge of
the Prisoner of War Control
Centre, but since he had a staff
of only six men, he had asked
for the assistance of the Volun-
teer Defence Corps, who num-
bered about fifty.
The unlooked-for result of
this request had been that a
Lieutenant - General from
Headquarters in Sydney had
been sent along to give the com-
bined three the benefit of his
advice. So, for the farmers to
take it upon themselves to
arrange for giving disreputable
Private Lacey charge of the
operation was laughable in the
extreme.
Lacey was, in fact, nothing
more than a farm-laboring,
rabbit-trapping fellow, un-
touchable to a man in Hark-
ness’s respected position, whom
Harkness would probably never
have heard of if it hadn’t been
for the incredible folly of his
•daughter.
ONE more approving men-
tion _of Lacey, and Hark-
ness stamped out of the bar-
room with ostentatious rude-
ness, and was just in time to
see P.W.C.C. Captain Atkins,
the V.D.C. General Hard-
shotter and the local V.D.C.
officer Furrows arrive at the
kerb in the General’s staff-car.
The officers alighted, so deep in
a discussion on tactics that
Harkness was able to overhear
what they were saying without
being noticed.
“The way I see it,”'said the
General, “there are nine men
at large. Therefore our men
must be kept in units large
enough to overwhelm them;
say, a dozen men in each
party.”
Atkins and Furrows put
on expressions of polite dis-
agreement, tempered by defer-
ence for rank.
“It’s a mighty big stretch of
country they’re hiding in,” said
Furrows ; “four thousand acres
of rough hills and thick scrub.
If we had only four parties to
march through it, they could
miss seeing an awful lot.”
“The Italians are unarmed,”
Atkins contributed ; “we have
never regarded them as dan-
gerous characters. In fact, we
never found it necessary to use
arms to keep them under con-
trol. One unarmed corporal
was sometimes in charge of
fifty.”
“Ha!” the General re-
proached him. “But you see
what happened! Nine of them
escaped, and now they’re
terrorising the district.”
Then he leaned forward and
reduced his voice to a hush-
hush level.
“And how do you know
they’re not armed by now?
We can’t eliminate the possi-
bility of a fifth-column in your
district. Our intelligence has
discovered that there are a lot
of people here with German
names.”
Furrows forgot himself so
far as to smile.
“Anyone could find that out
by looking in the telephone-
book,” he said ; “but they’re
third- or fourth-generation
Australians. Lots of them are
in the V.D.C. or have sons in
the fighting-forces.”
But the argument bounced
ineffectively off Hardshotter.
“I said we must go into
action as against a dangerous,
armed enemy. That’s why I
gave the order for an issue of
ammunition. We must be pre-
pared, if necessary, to shoot
on sight, and shodt to kill.”
He glared both Furrows and
Atkins into submission. Hark-
ness smiled with bitter satis-
faction. He moved away to
meet the men coming out of
the bar. They had Lacey with
them now, and were apparently
telling him that he was the
man to run the show.
T ACEY seemed out-of-placs
in that he looked like a
fighting soldier. He was
younger than any of the other
V.D.C.s, broad - shouldered
and sturdy, and he was un-
encumbered by the air of
mature responsibility which
burdened his companions. His
uniform and Digger-hat looked
more like a soldier’s, not
neatly pressed and brushed, but
crushed and softened by wear,
as though he had lived, and
even slept, in them. He had a
dark, lively face, and a wide,
determined-looking jaw.
He said “Hello” agreeably to
Harkness, but Harkness, with
frozen face, disregarded him,
and told the group what he’d
learned of the General’s plan.
Before the farmers had had
time to express their feelings,
everybody’s attention was
attracted to a unique type of
military vehicle which had just
arrived.
It looked rather like a cattle-
carrying motor-lorry with the
platform enclosed in a strong
steel mesh, only it had mesh
over the top as well, and a
heavily-padlocked door at the
rear. It was immediately
apparent that this was the cage
in which the captives were to
be enclosed. All those farmers
who were acquainted with the
Italian prisoners-of-war burst
out into spontaneous laughter.
“We don’t need that thing.”
“It’s only a waste of petrol
bringing it.”
“I’ll bet it came all the way
from Sydney.”
But a few of them were
worried. They took hold of
Captain Atkins.
“Look here, we can take
them home in our cars.”
“I’m afraid not,” said the
Captain. “They have to be
taken back to the Cowra
p.-0.-w. camp for punishment.”
There was a concerted out-
cry.
“But we want them immedi-
ately, to get our wheat sown.”
“I’ll get you some more,”
the Captain promised.
“But that’ll take weeks!”
“It’ll be too late then.”
“It’ll rain again, and be too
wet to work.”
“Or it might stay fine and get
too dry to sow.”
Atkins looked at them, per-
turbed. He had been in their
centre long enough to know
something of their problems.
“It’s Army regulations,” he
said. “I’ve got no say in it.”
The farmers went away mut-
tering. Instead of obeying the
order to get into their cars and
join the convoy to the point of
operations, they formed a dis-
gruntled group, uttering in-
subordinations.
“I’m going home to start my
tractor.”
“They won’t find the Ities.
And if by a miracle they did,
they’d take them away. So
what’s the use?”
“I could’ve sown ten acres
by now.”
“If you go with them you’ll
lose the whole day and miss
sowing forty.”
“Damn them. We’ll all stay
home.”
Harkness stared at them in
shocked disapproval.
“It’s your duty to go,” he
said self-righteously.
their officer, had to
come and plead.
“Don’t let me down, you
chaps. I’ve made a big fuss
about this stunt with our head-
quarters, so if you mess it up
you’ll make me look a terrible
fool.”
He hurried away. The
General was calling him. But
the farmers were morose and
bad-tempered about things.
They stared sullenly after
Furrows, undecided what to
do.
“He’s a decent bloke,” Lacey
said.
That seemed to make the
others realise that Furrows was
their friend and neighbor.
Without further discussion they
went along.
'T'HE terrain, as the Logan-
billa Hills were to be
known for the day, was roughly
in the form of an isosceles-
triangle.
-By the time the staff-ca Thad
arrived there, the details
agreed-to were that th& four
parties should enter at intervals
along the relatively narrow
base of the triangle (about three
miles long) and walk the length
of the range to the apex.
A modification in the direc-
tion of the fox-drive technique
was an arrangement to have a
party waiting in hiding at the
apex. This party, as the
General quickly decided as
soon as he saw how steep,
rough and rocky the hills were,
was to consist of the officers,
an armed guard, and, of course,
the mobile cage to contain the
prisoners as soon as they were
marched or driven out.
The tough walk through the
hills was left exclusively to the
members of the local
The General watched the* four
parties being dropped, and
gave each a pep-talk.
“Stick closely together and
don’t make a sound. You’re
up against desperate and dan-
gerous men with fighting
experience. Any straggler will
be picked-off and can’t expect
to come out with his life.”
Harkness was moving off at
the rear of his group, so excited
that his legs seemed to be
carrying him along without any
effort —checking over the sights
of his rifle to see that they were
adjusted correctly; patting his
pocket that had his spare
ammunition in it; remember-
ing ways of estimating dis-
tances ; recalling advice they
had been given about which
part of a man’s body to aim at
—when he was suddenly
startled by a pat on the back.
It was Lacey.
Violent resentment boiled up
in Harkness. He turned around
fiercely.
“Judy asked me to keep an
eye on you,” Lacey said,
ignoring Harkness’s reaction ;
“you’d better drive one of the
cars round to where we come
out. We need some good men
for that.”
But Harkness walked off
quickly without replying.
“What about your asthma?”
Lacey warned him. “Judy said
that climbing over these hills
would bring on a terrible
attack.”
Harkness walked all the
faster.
But Lacey took him by the
arm, and held him until they
(Continued on page 56)


Divided, We Muck About
By W. J. DUNCAN
BOSTOCK, Federal member for Indi,
has* again been urging unified control
of the defence services. He should know
what he is talking about. As Air-Vice-
Marshal Bostock he had to contend with
all the frustration and pettiness of divided
control in the R.A.A.F.
In Air War Against Japan, 1943-1945,
some space is given to the problems
of divided control and • the squabbles of
senior officers. The controversies were
deplorable at the time, and remain so
because not even this official history
shows a proper understanding of the
basic causes. It could happen again.
The R.A.A.F. has a fine record in its
individual air-crews and ground per-
sonnel, and in its squadrons; but the
higher command, with some exceptions,
was far from good. Bostock proved him-
self, according to General MacArthur,
as worthy of “the highest commendation
for the very able manner in which he
had performed his duties at Allied Air
Headquarters” (page 18 of the history).
But able commanders were not wanted in
! the R.A.A.F. —Air Board tried to side-
| slip Bostock off to a subordinate
command.
The Causes
The basic causes of the R.A.A.F. head-
. ache originated long before War 11. The
R.A.A.F. was formed in 1921, and,
although it was founded on the traditions
of the Australian Flying Corps, it had
no tradition as a Service as did the A.I.F.
In the ensuing 18 years, the R.A.A.F. was
a neglected Service, struggling to establish
its squadrons and stations. It never had
any aircraft suitable for efficient opera-
tions, and in any case never had enough
aircraft (period). At the outbreak of War
11, the R.A.A.F. had a few Ansons (suit-
able for short-range reconnaissance but
nothing else) and a few Wirraways (suit-
able for nothing operational).
Had the Japanese entered the war in
1939 or 1940, the R.A.A.F. would have
been out of action after the first day.
But always, throughout the period,
there was Air Board with its staffs.
It was always the largest unit in the
R.A.A.F. It had two components, civilian
and Service. The civilian component
formed the secretariat, which was at first
small but steadily expanded in the manner
of Australian bureaucracy.
There was a close link between the
R.A.A.F. secretariat and other branches
of the public service, especially the
Treasury. It followed then that the real
arbiters of R.AA.F. policy were not the
Defence Ministers, riot Parliament which
voted the funds, but the public service.
Early in the war came the formation of
a separate Department of Air, and the
secretary became the permanent head
of the department. As such, he had more
influence over the Minister for Air than
any Service officer.
The Service component of Air Board
was formed of R.A.A.F. members. Some
of them were operational types who alter-
nated between staff appointment and
squadron service. There were, however,
many other officers who wore themselves
into the chairs at barracks until the seats
fitted their bottoms and they became
irremovable.
R.A.A.F. Bureaucracy
These latter, with the civilian com-
ponent, formed the R.A.A.F. bureaucracy
which steadily strengthened its grip on the
Service. They exercised a personal
scrutiny over everything down to the
merest detail. As the strength of the
R.A.A.F. up to 1939 was little more than
3000, Air Board could retain such a
personal interest without clogging up the
works too much. Even so, the R.A.A.F.
was hampered by the fact that, for
Air Board, the horizon was blocked-out
by the trees along St. Kilda Road. The
R.A.A.F. was afflicted by the “small-
show” mentality of its higher control.
From 1940 there was rapid expansion
of the R.A.A.F. but no broadening of the
outlook of the clique at Victoria Bar-
racks. Air Board still clung to personal
control, and then the works did start to
clog. The R.A.A.F. was like a balloon
trying to inflate under the restricting
weight of a sprawling octopus.
Air Board Appointments .
The one thing Air Board never did
learn was the vital importance of delega-
tion of authority for the efficient admini-
stration of a large organisation. Air
Board wanted to retain control of all its
units wherever serving. As an example,
for a time Air Board persisted in appoint-
ing to command No. 3 Squadron in
Middle East officers from Australia
without any operational experience. It
was a minor consideration that such
officers, while gaining experience, might
lead the squadron into disaster^
Eventually Air Board was forced to
delegate authority by the formation of
R.A.A.F. Overseas Headquarters, but
this did not „ happen until after much
bitter controversy in Melbourne.
Even so, the personnel overseas could
hot altogether escape the pettiness of Air
Board. Here’s an instance.
The R.A.F. authorised the Air Officer
Commanding an operational formation to
commission in the field n.c.o. air-crew
who had rendered outstanding service.
The intention was partly to recognise
service, and partly in order to utilise
good officer-material while the man was
still doing his operational tour. All the
Dominions agreed to such delegation of
authority in relation to Dominion per-
sonnel serving with the R.A.F.—all the
Dominions, that is to say, except Aus-
tralia. When it was a choice between
efficiency of operations and bureaucracy
releasing its grip, well, operations lost out.
Airborne and Chairbome
In Australia the split between airborne
and chair borne developed early in 1940.
Whatever the respective merits of the
dispute at that time, it should have been
dropped when the Japanese attack called
for total effort. Did it? Oh, no. The
split widened. Air Board had to hand over
operational control of the RA.A.F. to
Allied Air Force because MacArthur
would not have tolerated anything
less. Bostock then went to Allied
Air Headquarters. If Bostock hadn’t
the proper qualifications, or if
for any reason he was not accept-
able to the War Cabinet, he should
never have been appointed. Having been
so appointed, he should have been given
the full support of the R.A.A.F. regard-
less of personalities. It was never given.
Air Board and the secretariat, by their
influence with the Minister, retained full
administrative control.
By 1943 the effect of this divided con-
trol had become so adverse that Prime
Minister Curtin sought the -advice of
Blarney for a solution. Blarney said
(page 16 of the Official History) :
I am sure that it will not be possible to
bring the whole weight of the R.A.A.F. to
bear against the enemy until an Air Officer
Commanding, R.A.A.F., is appointed and
the Air Board abolished, on similar lines
to those adopted in the Army. It is
impossible to separate operational and
administrative command since the whole
object of administrative organisation is to
ensure the maximum operational capacity
against the enemy.
Sound advice, but who was to carry it
out? It must be remembered that Air
Board worked with the secretary, Depart-
ment of Air, who had the ear of the
Minister. All were flying in close
formation.
There followed more mucking about
because apparently Curtin and Drakeford
were not strong enough to overrule the
bureaucrats. In an attempt at com-
promise, it was proposed to obtain an
officer of the R.A.F. to command the
R.A.A.F. Why? We didn't have to go
to the British Army to find commanders
for the A.I.F. There were officers in the
R.A.A.F. fully capable of taking com-
mand.
Bostock and Scherger
Bostock had the confidence of the
Allied commanders and won their com-
mendation. That should have been suffi-
cient qualification for the job. Personal
differences should have been sup-
pressed in the interests of the war effort.
If, however, it had been decided that
Bostock was not acceptable, there was
another officer who had proved himself
an outstanding operational commander.
That was Scherger, the present Chief of
the Air Staff. What if he was somewhat
{Continued on page 55)


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Horses
The £l5OO Inkerman Handi-
cap, main event at Caulfield last
Saturday, is one of the few two-
miles races on the Victorian
calendar. Only seven horses
accepted for the race —reason
enough why racing clubs do
not cater more for stayers. And
as the race was run, none of
the seven riders seemed con-
fident his mount would see out
a genuine two miles. The field
made the first circuit of the
track at a hand-canter with
riders sitting back in the saddle.
Time for the race—3.36.6—is
17sec. outside the Australian
two-miles record. The field
sprinted over the final six
furlongs, the five-year-old
Bustard gelding Buzzie winning
the sprint, and thereby giving
his 40-year-old rider, Lou
Francis, his first city success
in 11 years.
Lightly-raced three-year-old
Chief Wongo made a one-act
affair of the Caulfield nine-
furlongs Roseberry Handicap—
his second win in a row, and
his third from four starts. A
lot more will be heard of this
New 'Zealand-bred (Under-
Wood-St. Anne) gelding. .He is
a strikingly handsome black,
full of quality. Williamson had
only to shake him up at the
turn, and he strode away to win
as he liked. He could well be
a Cup horse next spring. Mel-
bourne shoe-manufacturer J. C.
Hanson races Chief Wongo,
who was a cheap purchase at
600gns.
Although Astounding had not
raced since November 23, the
Empyrean colt had won so
impressively on that occasion
that punters accepted short
odds about him last Saturday
in the Juvenile
Stakes. Lack of a race told
against him: he seemed to
have the Juvenile safely won
half a furlong out. Alan
Burton brought Lauriston Bey
along with a well-timed run
that just gained the day. A
good-looking black gelding by
Ottoman (imp.) out of Caw,
Lauriston Bey ha's now raced
five times for two wins and
three minor placings. Former
jumping-rider Jim Kennedy got
charge of .-the gelding when
Stan Bellchambers retired, and
he should continue to win
races with him. The Ottoman
stock stay fairly, while Caw is
also the dam of useful sprinter
Cawson. That breeding indi-
cates that Lauriston Bey will
improve with racing.
••• » •
The mile Normanby Handi-
cap went to the four-year-old
chestnut gelding Maori Gold,
who is a stone better horse at
Caulfield than at any other
track. Feature of Maori Gold’s
win was the confident riding of
young apprentice R. Mallyon.
He urged his mount to the lead
at barrier-rise, and refused to
be upset by challenges along
the straight. Mallyon is still
eligible for the full 71b.
apprentice allowance, but he is
a most promising lad and it
won’t be long before he forfeits
part of his allowance.
There was an odd touch to
the Rowena Handicap at Caul-
field, which ’ Droll Prince won
from Shadow Play. The two
horses had last met at Fleming-
ton on New Year’s Day, when
they had also finished first and
second —the winner Shadow
Play. The curious part of the
Caulfield result was that,
although, they were meeting
much the same field, both Droll
Prince and Shadow Play
started at liberal odds. Droll
Prince, a four-year-old entire
by Melbourne Cup winner
Comic Court, does his racing
in Melbourne, but i? owned by
Mrs. P. Mason, who lives in
Adelaide, and W. J. Bradshaw,
of Sydney, who also races
Prince Delville.
When the top-line sprinters
are off the scene in Melbourne
the aged Nebris gelding Nevana
can be relied on to win a race
or two. This time up he has
won twice from four starts. At
Caulfield he cut-out the six
furlongs of the Park Stakes in
1.11, only 8/10 sec. outside Sir
Pyrean’s course record. (Nevana
held the course record until Sir
Pyrean rail new figures last
November.) Third placegetter,
Hot Spell, having his second
start after a spell, ran excep-
tionally well for a horse who is
at his best over a mile. He
should win soon.
The £2OOO steeplechase to be
staged by the V.R.C. at Flem-
ington on March 1 in honor of
the Queen Mother’s visit has
been named the Glamis Steeple.
Several of Melbourne’s best
jumping horses, whose prepara-
tion would normally be aimed
at the Nationals, have been put
to work early for the event.
It is unfortunate that Pedro’s
Pride has ricked a hind fet-
lock, and it now seems unlikely
that the Queen Mother will see
this grand mare in action.
In the spring of 1938 Fred
Shean, then a top jockey and
riding in brilliant form, won
the Caulfield Cup on Buzalong,
the Melbourne Cup on Cata-
logue and the Williamstown
Cup on Manolive. For some
time now a trainer, he may
have a fair sort of sprinter in
Cerasus, a two-year-old he
trains for Mrs. Shean. A run-
away winner in the Canterbury
Park Graduation 'S tak e s,
Cerasus, a first foal, is related
to a number of smart horses,
chief among them Trimmer,
whose many wins included the
Carrington Stakes (1943).
Cerasus is by Bob Cherry
(imp.) from Fray by Stockade
(imp.). In the Canterbury race
he beat, among others, New
Farm, who had easily won the
A.J.C. Maiden Juvenile at
Randwick on Boxing Day at
his first start in public.
Rose of Persia, easy winner
of the Canterbury First Two-
year-old Maiden for fillies, is
raced by her breeder, J.
Mandel, and is by Persian Book
(imp.) from Triestina (a Rand-
• wick two-year-old winner) by
Dashing Cavalier from
Pantrieste by Peter Pan. She
has the Carbine blood in her
make-up, and her background
otherwise suggests that she will
develop staying ability later on.
Squander Lad’s brilliant
success in the Canterbury Park
Flying, for which he was at
brief odds, could have strength-
ened Randwick trainer J.
Green’s team for the Melbourne
autumn carnival—he also has
Gold Stakes in winning form,
and Kingster ready to return to
the winning-list. Having his
third start after a spell,
Squander Lad ran the six
furlongs in 1.1 If, which was
close to the track record. His
next engagement may be in the
A.J.C. Challenge Stakes next
Saturday week.
• • • ’•
Whether Genelle’s perform-
ance in winning the Canterbury
Second Two-year-old Maiden
was a really outstanding effort,
or whether the others were a
mediocre lot, should be proved
next time out. Genelle, badly
left when the barrier was
released, gave her opponents a
good start, and yet won easily
by two lengths in close to race-
record time. Trained by Jim
McCurley for his patron of
many years, E. A. Coghlan,
she is by the new sire Judicate
(imp.) from Incessant by Mid-
stream (imp.) and is a half-
sister to Midswell, Finisterre
and Ashwood. Judicate, a son
of Hyperion, had ability on the
racetrack, his wins including
the Irish St. Leger, Duke of
York Handicap (10 furlongs)
and the Haydock Park Stakes
(2 miles, 1 furlong).
Gay Castle has won at her
last three starts, twice at
Canterbury and once at Rand-
wick, her latest success, in the
Canterbury Park Handicap,
being her first in open com-
pany. She is trained at the
suburban track by Bill Sayers,
who shares ownership with


Largest Australian Coy
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World,
J. R. K. Paine and D. E.
MacKinnon. In each of her
latest three wins she has
indicated staying ability, and
her owners belie.ve she will be
capable of winning important
long-distance events. Her
breeding-lines certainly point to
staying prospects: she is
related to Akuna, a winner of
the Sydney Cup, * and to
Polycletan, a winner of the
A.J.C. Metropolitan. Pre-
cedent, a winner of the Perth
Derby, is also in the grey mare’s
family-tree. Gay Castle is by
Tsaoko (Fr.) from Winters-
moon (winner in Adelaide) by
Rogerstone Castle (imp.) from
Snow White (V.R.C. Wakeful
Stakes) by Gay Lothario
(imp.).
Owner A. Higgins had a
profitable week when Gay
Greetings won for him at
Wyong and Charente at Canter-
bury Park. He came down
from his country property at
Muswellbrook to see the horses
win at good prices. Higgins
bred both horses. Charente,
in the Welter, had backing at
20 to 1, and at orfe stage
touched 12’s but he started at
16’s. Well ridden by appren-
tice G. Howard, he led all the
way. Though Charente has
won many races over sprint
distances, he carried only 131 b.
above the limit. Melbourne
galloper Never Mist, who had
sprinted brilliantly at Rose-
bery two days before the race
and was considered a real
chance by the stable, nevefi
showed up.
Those who saw The Wensum
easily win barrier-trials with
the colors up at Randwick and
Rosebery last September have
looked forward to the gelding’s-
first appearance in a race. It
may happen at Rosehill on
February 1, in a Graduation
Stakes for two-year-olds.
By Newtown Wonder (imp.),
The Wensum in his first barrier-
trial win defeated In Love by
12 lengths and in the second
was the best part of two lengths
ahead of Gabonia (unbeaten in
three starts, and now rated as
one of Australia’s best two-
year-olds). The Wensum hlso
won a Rosebery barrier-trial
last week.
* * *
At the Trots
From the 12yd. mark at
f Harold Park Master Mercer
won the £lOOO Trotters’ Cup
furlongs) by four lengths
from Austral Sky (36yds.) and
Bank Account (scr.). A
stockman, J. Mills, who pur-
chased Master Mercer three
years ago, has been racing
trotters for 30 years, but this
was his first big success. Vic-
torian champion and favorite
Carlotta’s Pride, attempting her
fifth successive major trotting
win, broke when driver G.
Gath sought to push her
through an opening on the
rails. The opening closed, and
the favorite dropped back
quickly and broke.
Pacing perfectly for driver
J. D. Watts, that top-class mare
Sibelia scored another victory
in the £lOOO Free-for-all, win-
ning by half a length from
Highland Jan, with New
Zealander Grand Monarch
three-quarters of a length away
third. Sibelia started favorite
at 5/4 on. First Variety broke
badly at the start and was never
a possibility.
Determined Boy held off the
fast-finishing Bannalagh to win
the third qualifying division of
the Summer Handicap. In the
fourth qualifying division
Tense Ayr (second by only a
neck to last week’s record-
breaking winner Fettle) went
down by a half-length to Set
Point in a very exciting race.
The final of the Summer
Handicap on Friday night
(17th) should be something to
see.
+ +
Swim Speedsters
For the first time in a race
two women swimmers last week
broke smin. for 440yds.—in
the N.S.W. title-race, won by
Lorraine Crapp in 4min. 58.2
sec. (slow time for her!), with
the very promising 13-year-old
Latvian-born lisa Konrads
second in 4.58.8. Dutch girl
Corrie Schimmel was third. In
a heat the night before, lisa
Konrads (whose brother John
is also one of Australia’s most
promising swimmers) had swum
4.59.2, to become then the
second swimmeress, after
Lorraine Crapp, to cover the
440 under smin.
The most remarkable swim at
the girls’ carnival was on the
last night, when lisa Konrads
won the 880yds. title swim in
lOmin. I7.7sec. In doing so she
bioke Lorraine Crapp’s world-
record for the distance, set in
1956, by 16.95ec., and also cut
her BQjO-metres world-record.
The Schimmel girl was miles
back, second.
• • • •
In other swims, Lorraine
Crapp won the 220vds. and
110yds. freestyle, with Dutch
girl Cockie Gastelaars second
each time (it was a close race
in the 110yds.); Janet Hogan,
aged 12, who won the 220yds.
breaststroke in N.S.W. record-
time of 3min. 4.65ec., is the
youngest swimmer ever to win
an open swimming-race in Aus-
tralia ; Beverley Rainbridge
won the 220yds. medley in Aus-
tralian-record time of 2min.
48.8 sec. ; and, in a deadheat, G.
Beckett and P. Huntingford set
new Australian time for the
220yds. backstroke (2min. 46.3
sec.).
Last Saturday night, the
second night of the N.S.W.
men’s championships, John
Konrads emulated his sister’s
performance by setting new
world figures for the 880yds.
and 800-metres. He won the
880yds. title in 9min. 17.75ec.,
I.ssec. faster than - American
George Breen’s world 880yds.
record (and, incidentally,
exactly Imin. faster than his
sister’s time). The night
before, with no trouble at all,
he had casually taken 9.6 sec. off
Murray Rose’s Australian
880yds. record.
Somewhat eclipsed by
Konrads’s swim were other fine
swims last Saturday night.
Olympic silver-medallist John
Monckton broke his own Aus-
tralian record in winning the
110yds. backstroke (in 63sec.),
and Terry Gathercole (110yds.
breaststroke) and Brian WiJkin-
son (220yds. butterfly) also set
new Australian records. Aus-
tralian 100yds. freestyle record-
holder John Devitt won the
110yds. title for the
second successive year.
* * *
—And Others
“Veryl”: Two Australian
batsmen played dashing
knocks last Friday. At
Johannesburg Les Favell,
dominating the day’s play, hit-
up 75 in a stand of 121. On
his day no one plays a more
spectacular and entertaining
innings than Favell. The other
batsman with a lot of dash was
N.S.W.’s Norm O'Neill, who
made 125 in his second century
"this season against South Aus-
tralia. O’Neill has been play-
ing a lot of spectacular and
entertaining cricket in the
Sheffield Shield series.
New S.A. captain Colin
Pinch, with his two centuries
(102 each time) in the recent
Shield match against Victoria,
joins former Test-batsman Ron
Hamence as the only two South
Australians to have made two
centuries in the one match
twice. Pinch had .made his
earlier double against W.A. in
Perth last season (110 and 100).
Hamence’s efforts were 130 and
103 not-out against Victoria in
1940-41 (not a Sheffield Shield
match) and 132 and 101 not-out
against N.S.W. in 1946-47. In
that 1940-41 match another
former Test-batsman, Jack.
Badcock, also got two hundreds
(120 and 102). Others who
have made two separate
hundreds in the one match for
S.A. have been Sir Donald
Bradman, Vic Richardson,
Favell, Lonergan and Gehrs.
“Slip”: Queensland fast-
bowler Barry Fisher, who got a
century in his State’s second
innings against- Victoria
recently, was picked in the
Bananaland team for his bowl-
ing, but has been doing as well
with the bat. Fisher’s father
played for Queensland also.
* * *
Harry A. Jenkins, president,
Senior Citizens’ Centre, Chats-
wood (Sydney): “Jock,” in his
par. on the cheapest bowling-
club in Australia (B. 25/12/’57),
omitted to say that the 3s. 6d.
entrance-fee also entitles the
member to all the amenities at
the centre; viz., large card-
or meeting-room seating 200,
up-to-date kitchen fully
equipped, hot-water service,
refrigerator, large library of
over 3000 books (free), piano,
radio, 21in TV-set." Cup of
tea and biscuits cost sixpence.
We are self-supporting, no paid
labor. On Jan. 7 our fortnightly
meetings began. On other days
members meet to play cards
and other games. Ladies play
croquet on Thursdays. Visitors
are welcomed at all times
irrespective of age or social
status. Incidentally, it is not
only age-pensioners who can
participate or become members
—any woman over 60 and
men over 65 irrespective of
what their income might be.


was unfit. But, he said, they
urged him to put in an appear-
ance and assured him that the
affair would be nothing more
than a friendly exhibition.
When he found Ryan taking
advantage of him he refused to
continue. It was the old, old
story.
He trained-off some of the
prison-fat, boxed Martin Judge
(who twice fought Gans) and
then went to Philadelphia for
a match with Kid Lavigne.
This wore a foolhardy tinge,
and perhaps it was just as well
that Lavigne forgot to turn up.
Griffo made one of his speeches
from the ringside.
ME was still in Philadelphia
on Independence Day,
when he fought six rounds, no
decision, with Owen Ziegler,
who had just given Lavigne a
very tough battle. Ziegler
strove hard for a knock-out,
but Griffo fooled him. The
Australian’s left danced like»
sharp lightning around
Ziegler’s bleeding nose.
Stimulated by the
Griffo went to Atlantic City
on August 7 and overwhelmed
Horace Leeds in six rounds.
Back in Philadelphia, he fell
into a drunken frolic and
sobered-up to meet a charge
of robbing one Tom Wilson
of $67. He was held under
bail to appear for examination.
W. W. Naughton’s high regard
for him was fraying badly. “If
Griffo is proved guilty,” he
wrote sternly, “the authorities
in Quakerville should put him
in jail and throw the key
away.”
The misdeed blew over;
Griffo went on fighting in
Quakerville. He drew with
Charlie McKeever over six
rounds, and put up a lively
exhibition.
On September 21 he fought
a 15-round draw with Joe
Gans. Just how Griffo, with
his haphazard training, was
able to do this is not clear. In
the two years since their last
meeting the Old Master had
been moving steadily upwards.
He had all his memorable
craftsmanship, and to stand-off
such a tradesman argues
brilliance on Griffo’s part.
It was a high-speed duel
between master - swordsmen.
Griffo was as active as a wasp,
but his punching was only a
passing discomfort. Gans had
more confidence than he had
shown in their earlier meeting,
but his big guns seemed to be
always a little out of range.
There was a gamecock brisk-
ness about the battle which
pleased the crowd; the
decision was generally
approved.
THESE appearances at Phila-
delphia were his last regu-
lar engagements for some time.
He was letting himself drift.
Alexander recalled: “It was
very poticeable that the terrible
life Griffo was leading was
beginning to tell its tale.” The
sorry fact was that Griffo was
on the skids.
The next time he was on
view was at Chicago early in
December, 1897, in what was
intended to be an eight-round
contest with Tom Tracey, Aus-
tralian welterweight, who had
Sketched by Phil May at Larry Foley's George Street, Sydney,
gym., where Griffo picked up some of the finer points of his
boxing art before going to America.
been more than holding his
own in the States.
Griffo failed to‘ appear at the
Coliseum until 10.30, and
when he did show up it was
obvious how he had been
filling-in the evening. Tracey
had been in the building all
the time. Griffo’s explanation
was that he had been in a
street-car accident on the way,
and he demanded that the bout
be reduced from eight to four
rounds. The matchmaker,
“Parson” Davies, gruffly
rejected the suggestion.
“Eight rounds, or none at
all —and you won’t get a cent.”
Griffo got into the ring at
last, but still wearing sweater
and trousers over his tights. He
asked the announcer to break
the news about the shocking
street-car accident. As Griffo
showed no noticeable damage,
other than the claw-marks
of the Demon Drink, the
announcer waved him away.
Griffo decided to make the
official statement himself. If
we can trust the reporter’s ears,
Griffo’s native dialect came in
Cockney, with Irish overtones:
“Loidies and gentlemen: As
you all know, Oi got hinto a
haccident whoile cornin’ ’ere
to meet Mr. Tracey in a height-
round go. You all know that,
loidies and gentlemen. There
were fifteen thousand people
there and they all knew it. Oi
was cornin’ hin a car. You all
know it. There were fifteen
thousand people there. They
all know it. Oi am not fit to
go on.”
“Shut up—you're drunk! ”
roared an impatient voice at the
back of the hall.
At last the contest got under
way, but the action was barren
and fleeting. Tracey let go
several shots for the head,
which Griffo parried, and then
he swung hard for the body, an
affront to Griffo’s bloated con-
dition. With apparent ease,
Tracey banged a right to the
neck and a left to the jaw,
trapped Griffo in a corner and
let him have it straight from the
shoulder.
Griffo looked far from
comfortable. They fiddled for
a space, and then Tracey fired
in three hard blows, a swing
with left and right, followed by
a right uppercut. The evidence
satisfied Griffo.
“ ’Old on, Tommy—Oi’ve
enough!”
He ..turned and ducked
through the ropes. Hisses and
abuse followed him all the way
to the dressing-rooms. The
club found another welter,
Paddy Smith, to go in with
Tracey. He managed to last
two rounds. The reporter did
not wait to see it ; he trailed
Griffo to the dressing-rooms.
He published what he heard:
“Oi couldn’t go—Oi was
badly ’urt. ’Arry”— to his
attendant —“ ’aven’t you got a
bloomin’ drink on you? Me
bloomin’ coppers is steamin’.
’Ot work, this foightin’ . . . Oi
know Oi can lick Tommy when
Oi’m right, but not when Oi’m
’urt.”
Griffo’s accent got a good
advertisement from this affair,
but so did his increasing
reluctance to allow business to
interfere with drinking. The
Chicago clubs wrote him off as
an unprofitable risk. Club
members wanted red - hot
action, or at least something
better than an interesting alibi.
Griffo began to see something
attractive about the Pacific
Coast, and took off for San
Francisco.
{To be continued next week)


KIEV mom SAFE!
SANDERS!
files
Correspondence, invoices,
,■ ir'X.
statements, stc., tiled in the
“Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted into a
perfect boolc oi reference at
the end of each month —Or
any other period.
Prices and fur*
ther information
upon application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agent*—
MELBOURNE , . Norman Broa. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE , | i Vardon Price Ltd.
PEHIU % , . Docket Book Co. -AusU)
Legal Notice
GEORGE WARD late of Lilyvale,
Greater Wollongong, New South Wales,
Electrical Engineer, deceased, intestate,
died on the 16th May, 1952 ; it has been
stated that he was the son of
FREDERICK JOHN WARD and
SOPHIA JANE WARD (born HUTCH-
INSON).—PURSUANT to a decretal
order of the Supreme Court of New
South Wales in its Equitable Jurisdic-
tion dated the 16th December, 1955,
and made in suit No. 1194 of 1955,
intituled “In the matter of the Estate of
GEORGE WARD late of Lilyvale,
Greater Wollongong, in the State of
New South Wales, Electrical Engineer,
Intestate, deceased; BETWEEN THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE Plaintiff, AND
ROYAL ARTHUR WARD, Defendant,”
whereby the following inquiry was
directed, namely: who were the persons
entitled, according to the Statutes for
the distribution of Intestates’ Estates,
to the estate of the said George Ward,
deceased, living at his death and
whether any of them are since dead,
and, if so, who are their respective
legal personal representatives; NOTICE
IS HEREBY GIVEN that all persons
claiming to be entitled under the said
inquiry are to send by post pre-paid to
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE, O’Connell
Street, Sydney, N.S.W., so as to reach
him on or before the 18th April, 1958,
their full Christian and surnames,
addresses and descriptions, and full par-
ticulars of their claims, or in default
thereof they will be excluded from the
benefit of the said decretal order, unless
the Court or a Judge or the Master in
Equity otherwise orders. Claimants
are to attend personally or by solicitor
before the Master in Equity at the
Supreme Court, Elizabeth Street, Syd-
ney, on Monday, the 19th May, 1958,
at 11 o’clock am., being the time
appointed for adjudicating upon the
claims, and must then be prepared to
prove their claims by proper legal
evidence. A claimant not residing in
New South Wales must send with the
particulars of his claim the name and
address of a person in New South Wales
to whom notice to the claimant can be
sent. Claimants are advised to send
their particulars of claim by two mails,
at an interval of three or four days.
Dated the 17th December, 1957.—E. S.
DUNHILL & BARKER, Solicitors for
the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 97 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Wanted to buy Frank S.
Greenop’s Who Travels Alone. —
6653.
To buy Question Time, by Hubert
Phillips, a book on mathematical
problems.—66s4.
Information Sought
When and by what race was the
camel domesticated? Was it the
ancient Egyptians or Persians ?
Not known definitely; probably
the Arabs. There is evidence that
Arabian camels were some of the
earliest animals used for domestic
purposes. Job’s “substance”
included 3000 camels, and there
w'ere also camels in the gift Abraham
leceived from Pharaoh (Genesis xii:
16). However, camels do not appear
on any of the early monuments of
Egypt, and Julian Huxley in his
recently published From an Antique
Land states that camels were hardly
known to ancient Egypt. Some of
the other parts of the ancient world
did not know the camel till com-
paratively late, including, it seems,
Persia, for camels were strange
and awesome even to the Persians
themselves when used by Xerxes in
his attack on Greece in 480 b.c. The
first time the Romans saw camels
was in Asia Minor in the wars
against Mithridates (88-84 8.c.).
* * * *
(1) Brief explanation of Einstein’s
theory of relativity? (2) What
theories did it replace ? (3) What
has been discovered as a result of
Einstein’s work ? (4) 1 have read
that a person travelling in space will
not age the same as on earth. Is
this so ?
(1) A tall order, indeed. Whole
books have been devoted to explain-
ing it. Here little more can be given
than Everyman’s Encyclopaedia’s
definition at the beginning of its
article on the subject—“ The theory
of relativity is the theory of the
statement of the general laws of
physics in a manner that is common
to all observers under any condi-
tions.” Also quoting Everyman’s,
“The general theory of relativity is
concerned with the explanation of
gravitation by means of the
pioperties of a world of four-dimen-
sional space-time.” (2) The basis
of pre-relativity physics is New-
tonian dynamics and Euclidean
geometry. (3) One of the greatest
discoveries was “a conclusion of
incalculable importance to the
world the most important and
certainly the most famous equation
in history: E mcisquared)” (The
Universe and Dr. Einstein, by
Lincoln Barnett), where E is energy
teleased, c is the velocity of light,
and m the mass that disappears.
Changes of matter into energy repre-
sented by this equation provide the
energy radiated by the sun and the
stars and that generated in the
atom-bomb. Again quoting Barnett,
“Relativity has shaped all our con-
cepts of space, time, gravitation and
the realities that are too remote and
too vast to be perceived.” It was
Max Planck’s Quantum Theory
(postulated in 1900), followed by
Einstein’s Special Theory of
Relativity (1905), which led the
way to the atom-bomb and nuclear-
power. (4) One of the postulates
of relativity is that a clock attached
1o any moving system runs at a
different, slower rhythm than a
stationary clock (though at any
speeds to be met with on earth, even
the speed of a rocket, the slowing-
down is immeasurable). The human
heart, Einstein considers, is a kind
of clock; hence, according to the
theory of relativity, the heartbeat
of a person travelling in space at a
velocity close to that of light would
be relatively slower, as judged by
a stationary timekeeper on earth.
Such a cosmic traveller would
“grow old” less rapidly; and on
returning to earth after ranging the
void at the speed of light for, say,
10 terrestrial years he would find
himself only five or so years older
than when he left.
* * * *
Some information on the begin-
nings of the Colombo plan ?
In January, 1950, British Com-
monwealth Foreign Ministers met at
Colombo to exchange views on
world problems, particularly the
needs of countries of south and
south-east Asia. The idea of the
Colombo plan (of financial and
other assistance to develop those
countries) was born at this meeting.
Original members of. the plan were
Britain, Australia, N.Z., Canada,
Ceylon, India and Pakistan, together
with Malaya and British Borneo. A
consultative committee met for the
first time in Sydney in May, 1950,
when it was agreed that Common-
wealth countries in the area should
draw up a six-year development
programme, and that other countries
in the area should be invited to do
the same. The technical co-opera-
tion scheme was also decided on.
Other meetings of the consultative
committee have included those at
London (Sept., 1950), Colombo
(Feb., 1951)—at which the U.S.
associated itself with the plan —
Ottawa (Oct., 1954), Singapore
(Oct., 1955) and Wellington (Oct.,
1956). At the Singapore meeting it
was agreed that the plan be extended
from July, 1957, to June, 1961, with
the future of the plan to be con-
sidered by the consultative com-
mittee at its 1959 meeting. Australia
has given a ]ot of help in many
ways: for instance, last June there
arrived in Australia the 2000th
trainee to come here under the plan;
a big contribution in rolling-stock,
has been made towards rehabilitation
and development of India’s rail-
ways ; and it was announced on New
Year’s Day by Federal Minister for
Primary Industry McMahon that
Australia would give Pakistan
£stgl3,ooo,ooo for economic develop-
ment under the Colombo plan this
year.
Who have been Australia’s open-
ing-batsmen in Tests since the
famous Brown and Fingleton
combination in England in 1938 ?
Morris and Barnes opened in four
of the 1946-47 Tests against England
fin the fourth Test Morris opened
with Merv Harvey). In 1947-48,
against India, Morris and Brown
opened in the first two Tests, Morris
and Barnes in the next two, and
Barnes and Brown in the sth. In
England in 1948 Morris and Barnes
opened in Ist, 2nd and sth; in the
3rd Test Morris opened with lan
Johnson, and in the 4th with
Hassett. In South Africa in 1949-50
Morris and Moroney opened in all
five Tests. In 1950-51, against
England, it was Morris and
Moroney in the Ist, Morris and Ken
Archer in the next three, and Morris
and Burke in the sth. Against West
Indies (1951-52), Morris and Ken
Archer (Ist and 2nd Tests), Morris
and Burke (3rd), Morris and
Moroney (4th) and McDonald and
Thoms (sth). Against South
Africa (1952-53), Morris and
McDonald in all five Tests. In
England in 1953, Morris and Hole in
the Ist, and Morris and Hassett in
the other four. Against England in
1954-55, Morris and Favell in the
fust three, Morris and McDonald in
the 4th, and McDonald and Watson
in the sth. In the West Indies (1955)
McDonald and Morris in the first
three, and McDonald and Favell in
the last two. In England in 1956
McDonald and Burke in all five
Jests. In South Africa (1957-58),
McDonald and Burke in the first
two Tests. The breaking-up of the
Morris-Bames partnership in the
first few series after the war, and the
occasional dropping of Morris, was
usually due to injury or illness.
Brief Answers
K.B J.: According to Ports of the
World (1957), the Zeikan pier at
Yokohama can berth one ship of
45,000 gross tons, two of up to
24,000 tons and one 10,000-tonner.
The Shinko pier can berth one
20,000-tonner. Yokohama has
dry-dock facilities for ships of up
to 25,000 tons gross G.McC.:
(1) An amount of 70s. a fortnight is
paid to the wife of a pensioner
when she is not eligible to receive
a pension in her own right and when
her husband is incapacitated for
employment. There is an additional
allowance for children. For the
first child an extra 23 s. a fortnight
is paid to the wife, which makes
her pension-rate up to 935. a fort-
night. For the remaining children
after the first an extra 10s. a week
is paid to the pensioner, not the
wife. (2) and (3) Permissible
income for a married couple is £7
a week or £364 per annum. An
extra lOs.-a-week income
is permitted for each child under
16 in the care, custody and control
of the couple. It is possible for the
wife to earn the permissible income
on behalf of herself and her
husband. (4) A claim for an allow-
ance or pension usually takes six
weeks from time of application to
when payment is made. However,
payment of wife’s allowance and
pension is made from the first pay-
day after claims were lodged.
(Information from Director, Com-
monwealth Department of Social
Services, Sydney.) F.D.: In the
case of an ex-serviceman whose
death is accepted as due to war-
service, the widow is eligible for
the grant of a war-widow’s pension
of £9 15s. a fortnight. If she is
the widow of an officer whose rank
is equal to or higher than a major
in the Army, or equivalent rank in
another branch of the Forces, she
will be eligible for a higher rate of
pension. In certain circumstances,
she may also qualify for an allow-
ance (usually referred to as a
domestic allowance) of £4 a fort-
night. This allowance may be paid
to a widow who (a) is 50 or over;
( b ) has in her care and custody a
dependent child or children unde
the age of sixteen years; (c) is under
5U but who, in the opinion of the
Repatriation Commission, is for any
reason permanently unemployable.
If it is decided that the ex-service-
man’s death was not due to war-
service, the widow is eligible to
receive war-pension based on the
assessed degree of incapacity arising
from his accepted war-caused dis-
abilities prior to his death. In the
case you cite, where the ex-service-
man was paid war-pension at a 20
per cent, rate, his widow would
only be eligible to receive 14s. 2d. a
fortnight. (Information from the
Deputy Commissioner, Common-
wealth Repatriation Department,
Sydney.)... .G.A.: (1) The addi-
tional excise on beer, under the
supplementary Budget of March,
1956, amounted to 2s. Bd. a gallon,
equal to 2d. a lOoz glass. The
excise on spirits was raised 15s. 6d.
a gallon. (2) See Business, Robbery
article “One for the Road” (B.
21/3/’56), copy of which will be
posted on request. (3) There have
been recent slight increases in
contributions, but there has been
no fundamental change in the
Government’s approach to the ques-
tion. .. .K.L.: Can’t help you there.
Write An?;is and Robertson, 89
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.


Missing Friend
FRANCIS JOHN LEGG, late of Capella.
Queensland, Australia. Has an interest
in a South African estate and should
write to DONALD MURRAY & COM-
PANY, P.O. Box 281, Bloemfontein,
South Africa, giving his postal address.
Urgent.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated tn England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY MELBOURNE.
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLING lON, N.Z.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Same and address must appear on
all MSS. So liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered jor publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
Tanda: Come in and tell us all
about it:
The great Australian outback
Our ancestors did pioneer
They gave to us our freedom
And left us naught to fear.
Now my tale is finished
And it I know is true '
It happened in Sunny Queensland
At the back of Maneroo.
. ...A.N.H.: Your crusty old
gardener plain du11... .R.K.:
Crowded with unnecessary
characters W.T.: Try for a
smoother flow and reduce
adjectives N.F.M.: “Oh Fate
that snatched away my true love”
has snatched away your poem....
8.0’H.: “Andy’s Milk-cart”
clattered out of the office M.M.:
Leads up to a non-existent climax.
J.T.T.: It’s a sincere little story,
but it’s too wordy A.W.: Those
“m yri a d s of cream-churning
breakers” dashed into the basket.
K.N.R.: If there is a point it
seems to have escaped y0u....
4th Instalment of
Years ago, I was told this happened,
away in the great outback
When the blackman was uncivilised,
and the pioneer oft faced attack.
A man had taken a contract, a fencing
job to do,
He’d left his wife at the camp-site with
their children two.
’Twas not long before a Blackman came
over to the tent
He asked the woman for ’bacca, she
knew well what this meant.
Hidden in the gumtrees most likely
would be the tribe
And when he found no men around, his
mates would soon arrive.
Praying to God to help her, she took
her children and a pail
Pretending to go to the creek for
water—
Her strategy must not fail.
Protective yet desperate, grim fear she
knew that day
As she hurried along the creek bed
To her husband a mile away.
The husband and his mate decided
’twould be fatal to go back,
Each took a child to carry, and went on
the opposite track.
They hastened to the homestead for help
from the station-hand and boss
Then returning to the camp-site they
beheld their total loss—
The camp burnt down, their clothes and
skins from slaughtered sheep were
hanging on the fence
Complete destruction, what cruelty and
violence could have been their fate
‘Ye Gods,’ the thought would make you
wince.
Stockmen All
By W.F.H.
[Moral fibre of young white
station hands Jackie and Jimmy
(especially Jackie) severely tested
by beautiful youngr lubras with no
clothes on.J
WHEN going home Susan, and
Waters showed the crowd
where their thoughts were as they
came up to the boys looked earnestly
into their eyes and, Susan, Saying,
me be here termorror Jackie, you
likem me cum Jackie! ? Yes, Susan,
you and Waters come tommorrow
and I will have a surprise for you
“Whatem you bring Jackie”? never
you mind it will be fine” and that
night Jackie was seen cutting the
legs from two pair of his old mole-
skin trousers and Jimmie, had two
old shirts tied in a bundle little did
those men know what they were
doing, among primative people who
had laws of their own governing sex
and if foreign to white man they
still held good along those deep
wide creeks. The next day the two
men presented their gifts to the
expectant maidens who when seeing
the clothes stripped off their old
ragged pants and standing in the
nude fought for possession of what
they Considered was the best. Both
boys, the Jackeroo’s, and blackboys
watched the vanity fight go on the
whites, wishing they were white
girls as those bush gins were shapely
and worth a lingering glance and
when dressed in white boys gifts
they looked fine and after preening
around they tossed their heads
enough to say, “These are our white
men see they gave us gifts we are
now their gins.” Day after day the
same work went on and suddenly a
near white girl appeared among
the blacks she was the daughter of a
half caste gin who was the natural
child of an overseer and this girl
Linda was the daughter of a fine
stockman named Bert Jonson who
had dissapeared to roam the great
scrubland Linda, could read and
write and her speech was standard
and when she started. to muscle in
among the young blacks a devil of a
shindy started between Susan, and
Linda with Waters giving moral sup-
port and when it was over Jackie
asked Emu what was the cause of
the shindy? looking hard at Jackie,
be said, Susum no likem Linda
talkem you, she say you her man,
an no one takem you from her so
Linda say, “all right me likem
Jimmie he fine boy,” one day me
marry him Susan then said, huh you
no marry white man you alonga us
black gin te law will not let white
boy marry gin” someday I be alike
your mother have half caste child
someone like Jackie” him my man.
So Linda left Jackie to Susan and
Waters these two playing a waiting
game for their prize the white boy
who so strangely stirred their
primative instincts they were young
and could wait. Linda set her sail
for Jimmie who did not respond to
her wiles but to be fair he took an
interest in her and bought many
bright dresses and cut her hair
taught her the way to dress and
generally look pretty which she did
under any Circumstances but living
in the blacks camp made her care-
less and indolent alike the others
she would strip off and walk around
completely naked and when told she
would put on a dress and walk
around to dump it and go bush, to
the camp and stay there for weeks
on time.
Jackie was a fine cook
especially at dampers in the ashes
and on many occasions he gave
demonstrations to his blackboys and
a few young gins including Susan,
Waters, and Linda who always
seemed to know where the boys
would be the next day so when
Jackie, Jimmie and the boys arrived
at an old blackfella soak on the far
end of the run the three gins and
two young boys were already there
with a damper cooked and some
top notch pigeons grilling on the
Gidyea coals. Susan and the rest
feigned surprise when seeing them
and the boys blood ran hot when
gazing on the gins in the nude. Susan
taking advantage of the situation
turned towards Jackie, and with a
twinkle in her eyes said, how you
bin likem seeing gin with no clothes
on Jackie!? Jackie, exclaimed,
Good Oh! And with that
compliment the gins were
feeling happy and started to dish
up some damper and pigeon to all
the party. Susan sharing Jackies,
quart pot of tea and Waters sulkily
looking on. It was a strange sight
but quite natural for the blacks but
Possum reckoned the gins were only
teasing the white boys and he did
not like it, Susan flared up and
told Possum to mind his own
business and in the Wiluna Dialect
to him Jackie was her man and she
was going to get him by fair means
or otherwise and one day Jackie,
would be the father of her children
and have tribal markings on his
chest and back and if she could
not get him with her body she would
try other means and you Possum can
leave me alone or, you may get
hurt.
The two white men wondered
what was being said, and the black-
boys decided to keep their
-knowledge to themselves.
Time went on and many jobs were
undertaken by the station hands
including a line of fence through the
dense Brumby scrub all timbers had
to be chopped close to the ground
Seven feet each side of the line of
fence and all branches likely to fall
on the fence to be lopped each side.
What a job and what a mob of
creek blacks came to lend a hand for
white man tucker baccy and clay
pipes dresses from the store and
moleskin trousers for the young
bloods who worked well and had a
happy time among the whites Susan
and Waters wearing the shorts and
shirts given by Jackie, and Linda
wearing a long pair of Denham
trousers with a flannel shirt. Many
scrub turkey had just laid their
eggs and being fresh they were
boiled fried and placed in Cake
brownie etc by the camp cook who
was a Chinaman and fond of the
young gins always leaving Susan,
Waters, and Linda alone for he had
seen Jackie bash up a half caste who
could fight and that was enough for
Ah Foo who after all was wise
enough to keep out of trouble.
Snakes by the dozens were disturbed
and the blacks left them alone kill-
ing a few for food and in turn a
yellow striped Iquanu or Gohanna
which was very tasty small scrub
Wallaby was stewed and tasted fine,
Paddy melon now and then this
animal was alike a small wallaby but
it had a black bar close to its eyes,
big fat Squatter pigeons an
Bronzewing were shot by shotgun
and in general tucker was fine.
As the job progressed the chopped
timber piled up in solid walls on
both sides of the fence and the
young blacks were given axes to frill
ringbark all rubbish timber within
a tew yards of the fence. Camping
in that sorubland was a thriller you
had to find a dry piece of land
between Brumby and Piker cattle
water holes which were numerous.
These holes were made by the
animals for water supply the rooted
with horns and kicked the earth out
and then stamped the earth hard
being black it held water for ever-
more. The workers had tents and
Gunyah or Wurlie built on any dry
spot found and saplings laid from
each spot to another until you
found the Cookhouse and at night,
you had to be a wonder to get any
sleep for you heard the death cries
oi many small animals as snakes etc
caught them, and the screams of
night hawks, many types of owls
and if lucky no snakes crawled over
your bed a great life for tough men
and their dogs who played their part
in a land of primative age.
One day a tall good looking chap
about 40 years of age and about
16 stone in weight wandered into
camp to have a yarn and get some
plug tobacco and matches. He was
Dingo Bill a crack rifle shot and a
good bushman a hard drinker tough
fighter who was once a good shearer
presser, fencer, card sharper,
crooked two up player who gave up
work because he was too heavy (to
work), and drank too much to live
anywhere but in the bush, anyhow
his living was worth while killing
dingoes and shooting kangaroo
earned him £5O a week fair going
for a bushman who certainly earned
it by living such a lonely life but
fox compensation he had a camp
wife named Mary Jones a quarter
caste gin who bore him 3 sons and
left him because he belted her when
he was drunk she saying, I cannot
stand any more beltings, Bill is my
man, but I will have to love him
from the blacks camp on the creek
where he cannot hurt me and at
the moment he reached the fencing
camp Bill was a grass widower of
the loose living type known during
those days.
(To be continued next week )


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
NEUTRAL GERMANY?
'THERE was certainly no
shortage of comment on
the latest 8.8. C. Reith lectures
—on this occasion delivered by
George Kennan, now Pro-
fessor of History at the
Institute for Advanced Studies
at Princeton (U.S.A.), formerly
American Ambassador to
Russia, and commonly believed
to be the author of America's
post-war policy of “containing”
the Soviet Union.
Kennan’s theme was,
basically, a new foreign policy
for the West with, at the heart
of it, a reunified and neutral-
ised Germany from which all
foreign troops would be with-
drawn. His series of lectures,
comments London “Daily
Telegraph,” was “one of the
most widely followed intel-
lectual hunts in broadcasting
history, over rugged ground
littered with political potholes,
diplomatic ditches and mental
marshes out of which no lesser
master could hope to scramble.
“But the purpose of any
chase, however Olympian, is to
catch the quarry. Has Mr.
Kennan caught his? Has he
outlined for Western foreign
policy a new direction, more
likely to maintain peace and
security in Europe?”
In the “Daily Telegraph’s”
opinion, Kennan did not come
up with the right answers or,
for that matter, any Ling really
new:
“His new direction is not
much different from that which
Mr. Gaitskell propounded a
few months ago. Mr. Bevan
and other Left-wing voices,
including that of ‘Pravda,’ have
been advocating it for years.
That it should now be put
forward in the authentic New
England accents of a famous
American pundit and launched
from the eminence of the famed
and objective 8.8. C. Reith
lectures certainly gives the old
argument new weight. But this
should not be allowed to
disguise the fact that Mr.
Kennan’s plan has already been
rejected over and over again
by those responsible for
implementing Western foreign
policy as heretical and
dangerous.”
The present Western attitude
London “Daily Mirror”
“NEVER MIND OUR NEXT STEPS—JUST TELL 'EM TO KEEP IN LINE."
is that a unified Germany
should be allowed to decide for
itself whether to join up with
East or West, but since it is
reasonably certain that the
country would, in those
circumstances, join Nato, the
Soviet will naturally not have a
bar of such an agreement. If,
in Kennan’s opinion, the
West specifically stated that a
unified Germany would not be
allowed into Nato and would
be kept out of all military
groupings then “the Soviet
Union might be tempted and
a unified and neutralised
Germany would emerge as a
buffer-zone from which the
troops of the two super-Powers
would be withdrawn.”
The “Daily Telegraph’s”
verdict on this proposition is
that it would present “major
and possibly insoluble” defence
problems for the West, and
that the supposed diplomatic
advantages posed by Kennan
are “pitifully optimistic”:
“In the first place no diplo-
matic formula could success-
fully impose neutralisation on
Germany. Whether formally a
member of Nato or not, her
Government would inevitably
have to take sides on major
international issues. Each such
position would inevitably
benefit the West or the East,
and be regarded as so doing
in Moscow and Washington.
Even a supposedly neutralised
Germany, in other words, could
not make a move without send-
ing the Chancelleries of the
world into a state of acute
nerves.
“The sad truth is that to end
the division of Germany on
the Kennan lines would very
probably add to the present
tensions and uncertainties. At
the moment each side knows
what it can do in Germany,
down to moving a single barge
on a single canal. The very
absence of room for manoeuvre
and the known perils of break-
ing the rules have reduced the
poker-game to a high art.
“Unless one side or the other
took the purposeful decision to
go to war, it is most unlikely
that any miscalculation could
unwittingly spark the holo-
caust. Unfortunately the very
reverse would be true if
Germany was neutralised and
unified in the way Mr. Kennan
advocates. It would bring into
Europe a loose and dangerous
game of blind-man’s-buff, such
as we have seen in the Middle
East and around Communist
China.”
If there were any doubts
about the “Daily Telegraph’s”
assertion that the Kennan
policy was not radically
different from British Labor
views on the same subject, they
would have been smartly dis-
pelled the following day when
that most plausible of argufiers,
Aneurin Bevan, turned up in
New York “Herald Tribune”
with, as that paper commented,
“a serious point of view which
deserves serious hearing.”
- The only thing new in
Kennan’s proposition, Bevan
comments in his article, are
“that they are now being heard
over the 8.8. C. and read by
millions of people in Britain
and elsewhere,” thus assuming
“an authority that cannot be
ignored”:
“Mr. Kennan’s central thesis
is one that I have set forth for
the past four and a half years.
It is that Western insistence on
the right of a United Germany
to form whatever alliances she
chose perpetuates the division
of Germany. And this for the
very simple reason —if one tries
to be realistic—that Russia is
not prepared and never has been
prepared to withdraw from
Eastern Germany if the only
result is to add the whole of a
United Germany to the strength
of the Western Powers.”
After discussing the “bank-
ruptcy” of the political policies
of both East and West in
Europe, Bevan concludes that
“If the Russians are to be
asked to agree to a with-
drawal of their forces from
Eastern Europe, it must be
accompanied by an agreement
to withdraw Western forces
from German soil. If Germany
is to regain her unity by agree-
ment with the Soviet Union,
then she must be ready to pay
her price. This price is
neutralisation, a limitation of
arms within a European
security system guaranteed by
the great Powers.
“It used to be said that a
great nation like Germany
cannot be expected to accept
this limitation upon her
sovereign rights. But limita-
tions on sovereignty are very
much in the air (just now.
They have become an essential
feature of the world in which
we live, and are likely to be
more so in the future. It seems
to me to be a small price to pay
for the reunification of the
country, for peace in the heart
of Europe and for a more
hopeful future for the peoples
of the Eastern European
countries.
“It is reasonable to expect
that an initiative in these
matters should come now from
the Western Powers. If George
Kennan’s address has served


lndepe'
Take-0^
A natural to boost
your efficiency • • •
your profits, too!
The Nuffield Universal with 1.P.T.0. is a natural to speed up your work-
make it easier! Both P.T.O. and hydraulics work completely independently of the
tractor —you can start the tractor, stop it, engage any gear without interfering with P.T.Ow
operation. And equally important—you can start and stop the P.T.O. or hydraulics while the tractor is moving
—everything is completely independent! With Nuffield 1.P.T.0. you can operate balers, orchard-sprayers, rotovators,
mowers, combine-harvesters, forage harvesters and so on more easily, more efficiently. And the same goes for the
hydraulically controlled implements—loaders, dozer blades, remote hydraulic rams, etc., all operate without
interruption to the tractor movements. See your Nuffield Distributor or Dealer now—find out just how the
famous, work-proved Nuffield Universal with 1.P.T.0. can boost your efficiency—your profits, tool
7r
I
m
a
am
5M
£=s\
UW•
UNIVERSAL TRACTOR
Models from £1,326/5/-. F.O.R. all capital cities.
NT. 59.34
BMC
■■■■■“■■■ ■■ngJui iniim ia.ltmuAl
Sold and Serviced by Authorised Nuffield
Distributors and Dealers Everywhere
Nuffield (Australia) Pty. Ltd, Tractor Division,
Box 73, G.P.O, Sydney.
Please send me literature on the Nuffield Tractor
Range and Independent Power Take-off.
NAME
ADDRESS
□ Place X in square If for school project.
to revive and give world-wide
publicity to the whole question,
he will have rendered a
distinguished service to all
mankind.”
Hungarian Refugees
Figures (up to October, 1957)
issued by the United Nations
High Commissioner for
Refugees indicate that of a
total of 200,000-odd Hungarian
refugees, 26,000 have returned
to Hungary, while 78,000 have
been resettled in Western
Europe and 75,000 overseas,
leaving about 20,000 in Austria.
Commenting on these
figures, “The World Today”
(London) notes that the
Hungarian Government has a
threefold approach to this loss
of population:
“The emigration of almost
two per cent, of Hungary’s total
population, the fact that these
people prefer to live in the
free world either for political or
for economic reasons, is an
indictment of the regime.
Therefore the thesis has been
evolved in Budapest that the
refugees did not leave of their
own free will but were induced
to do so by ‘imperialist
propaganda.’ The fact that a
substantial proportion of them
were young men between 14
and 25 has created a new genre
in Hungarian journalism, that
of heartbreak stories written in
the cheap, sentimental style of
the penny-dreadful on the
abduction of juveniles and the
anguish of their families.
“Second, from the practical,
political point of view, the
exodus of these people has
probably helped in the stabilisa-
tion of the Kadar regime. For
a large number of its potential
enemies, who, had they
remained in Hungary
undetected, would have con-
siderably increased its lack of
security, have now voluntarily
left the country. This is why
efforts to secure repatriation
have been half-hearted. In the
first place, the Kadar Govern-
ment does not in most cases


THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England )
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WALES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 4357 (2 lines).
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
offer their return-fare to
refugees. Furthermore, the
amnesty for returning refugees,
which expired on March 3,
1957, has not been extended.
“Third, in the sphere of
economics, it was at first
assumed that the exodus of a
large number of industrial
workers would hamper produc-
tion. Yet it helped the regime
to solve the question of
unemployment which arose at
the beginning of the year.
Moreover, it also provided
vacancies for university and
high-school graduates. This has
been a permanent problem dur-
ing the past few years, as the
output of the high schools was
much greater than the number
of potential posts in industry
and the civil service. The mal-
adjustments of the economic
and educational systems can
now be more easily resolved.”
Europe United
New York “Herald Tribune”
editorial comment on the ratifi-
cation of the Common Market
and Euratom treaties:
“This means mighty
complex of 165 million of the
most highly industrialised
people on earth is about to
take shape. It will take many
years, of course, before it
evolves into just that. It would
be stupid, as the planners of the
community are well aware, to
attempt to break down the old
economic barriers of Western
Europe in one day. But the
mould has been cast and there
is no going back.
“The Common Market, like
the Coal and Steel Community
which blazed the trail for it, is
composed of France, West
Germany, Italy, Holland,
Belgium and Luxembourg. In
the next 12 to 17 years, depend-
ing on events, tariffs among
them will be gradually
abolished. Eventually, if all
goes well, currencies will be
freely interchangeable, capital
will move without restriction
and there will be a common
standard of labor.
“Hand in hand with the
Common Market is the atomic
community, called Euratom.
Western Europe is today the
“Ah, a present from Moscow!”
only highly industrialised region
which must import great
amounts of its fuel. By joining
together in the development of
the atom for peaceful energy,
the six countries will assure
their growth, yes, and their
survival, as an industrial
community.”
British Dockyards
Baltimore (U.S.A.) “Sun”
on the disappearing “red
dots”:
“Time was when the world
map was liberally sprinkled with
the red dots which represented
British naval dockyards. Their
names were household words
among seafaring men, and the
older ones bred a race of
specialists, generation succeed-
ing generation in the Navy’s
service.
“It must seem incredible to
them that their day should
pass, but it has. Scapa Flow
is closed, Trincomalee has been
handed over to Ceylon, and
now Hong Kong’s yards are to
be closed next year.
“The list of yards to be
closed soon includes Singapore,
to judge from British Govern-
ment hints, and there is specu-
lation as to the closing of the
huge installation on Malta.
“Like the mothballing of
America’s last active battle-
ship, the shutting of the British
dockyards marks the decline
of an ancient tradition of war-
fare, as the great fighting ships
of our generation sail into
history with the three-decker
and the galleon.”
Malta
The apparently diminishing
importance of Naval dockyards
is, of course, of vital concern
to an island like Malta, where,
Edinburgh “Scotsman” notes,
the dockyard and associated
Naval activities are worth £l2
million a year to the island and
provide employment for more
than half the population.
As both London “Time and
Tide” and Christopher Hollis
"It’s well packed...!”
in London “Spectator”
comment, the problem of Malta
is a difficult one, involving as
it does sentiment, genuine
gratitude and the hard economic
facts of defence.
Pointing out that Britain
owes a great debt to the Maltese
for their magnificent resistance
to Britain’s enemies in the last
war, “Time and Tide” adds,
however, that “the whole dis-
position of British defence alters
with the changing years. The
future lies only to a limited
degree with ships and aero-
planes. The great dockyard will
gradually become surplus to
requirements, with tremendous
effects on Malta’s economy.
Dismissals on a small scale
from the dockyard have already
begun, though there is enough
work to keep the yard going
for about three years.”
On the same line, Hollis, in
the “Spectator,” records that
the last war, which “brought
us the story of Malta’s heroic
defence against Italian attack,
also showed to more cold-
blooded appraisal that it was
a very open question whether
an island in Malta’s position
was any longer of much
strategic value to Britain.
Further strategical develop-
ments have made its value even
more doubtful. A bomb on
M’dina could wreck the whole
island. If we cannot hold Suez
is there any point in holding
the road to Suez? For how
much longer shall we want to
hold the road to Cyprus?
“Is Britain ever likely again
fo have command of the sea,
in any sense that would make it
a sane policy to carry out
important dockyard works
thousands of miles away from
the homeland? It is true that
for the moment there is a Nato
headquarters in Valetta, but a
nation cannot live on a Nato
headquarters and nothing more
—even supposing that the head-
quarters remains there.”
It is, Hollis adds, a tribute
to the intelligence of Maltese
Prime Miniser Mintoff that he
recognised the foregoing
developments earlier than did
his political rivals in Malta
or politicians and admirals in
Britain. And it was from this
realisation, Hollis continues,
that Mintoff initiated his
“integration” plan by which
Malta would send three
members to Westminster and,
more important, by which the
Imperial Government would
“Phew! Another wrapping.”
take some responsibility for
“gradually bringing Maltese
wages and social payments up
to British standards.”
Summing-up his own
opinions, Hollis concludes that
“it is clear how much the
Maltese have to gain from such
an arrangement. Maltese are
incurably suspicious of those
who offer them gifts. It is an
island of violent political
hatreds, and Mr. Mintoff —
largely owing to his own
manners —has many enemies.
Therefore it was certain that
whatever proposals he put
forward would meet hearty
opposition in his own country,
but the probability has always
been that if he can produce a
plan he will be able to carry
the day in Malta.
“The much more difficult ques-
tion is: What have the British
to gain out of such a plan? I
think that on pure principles of
Gradgrind they will not on
balance gain, that it would pay
them to tell the Maltese to
make for themselves whatever


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
' practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week.
independent arrangements they
can. But it is such a change
these days to hear of any people
that is anxious to draw closer
to Britain that I think the
British have been right to see
whether a satisfactory scheme
of integration could be worked
out.
“An independent and im-
poverished Malta would not be
of any especial disadvantage to
Britain in particular, and we
are giving up so much these
days that one surrender more
would not make much
difference, but it would have
in general a weakening and
disintegrating effect in the
Mediterranean. It would be
irresponsible to permit such a
disintegration if an arrangement
acceptable to the Maltese can
he found for avoiding it.”
Planes and Missiles
Soviet suggestions that
missile developments have
made manned aircraft, particu-
larly bombers, obsolete have,
of course, been largely dis-
counted by Western writers,
who point out that Russia
would like nothing better than
to see the West scrap its planes
and its aircraft-building pro-
grammes.
Supporting this view, in a
London “Time and Tide”
article, Air-Marshal Six Basil
Saundby considers that it will
"We’re getting warmer!”
be some time j —possibly about
10 years before the long-
range bombers will have had
their day and that, even then,
there will still be a place for
various aircraft for various
purposes in any foreseeable
future.
Assessing the possibilities of
all-out or global war with
atomic weapons, Saundby
regards it is as inconceivable
that the free world should ever
initiate such a conflict, which
could, he holds, only happen if
started by the Communist
Powers, or if the use of
atomic weapons in a “limited”
or local war should get out
of hand and lead to the
abandonment of all restrictions.
The West can only guard
against such a Communist
move “by an unremitting
struggle to keep ahead or
abreast of the Soviet” in long-
range nuclear w e a p o ns,
because, Saundby believes,
Russia would never initiate a
major war unless it were utterly
certain of the ability to strike
an initial blo>y that would
overwhelm all possible retali-
ation.
The West's power of retali-
atory action at present rests in
long-range bombers carrying
megaton weapons:
“The long-range bomber is
still an efficient means of
retaliation and will remain so
even when the other side has
long-range rockets. Until a
comprehensive system of early
warning linked to a widespread
organisation of ground-to-air
guided or homing missiles is
in existence, the. bomber —
though slower than the rocket
—is no less accurate or effective.
“For some time’ to come,
therefore, the principal deter-
rent to global war will be the
manned long-range bomber
aircraft and it will remain until
it is replaced by a reliable full-
scale organisation of long-
range rocket-missiles. In the
same way, the manned air-
defence fighter, armed with
air-to-air guided or homing
rocket-missiles, will be needed
until it can be replaced by a
completely reliable and effective
system of ground-to-air missiles.
“But there can be little doubt
that sooner or later —it is
unlikely to be more than 10
years—air-forces will no longer
require strategic bombers or
interceptor fighters as a deter-
rent to global war.”
A nuclear stalemate, how-
London “Daily Express ”
“At last—er — nothing!”
ever, does not mean a com-
parable reduction in the risk of
limited wars. In these, Saundby
comments, “strike-action cannot
be entrusted wholly, or even
mainly, to ground-to-ground
missiles. It would be of
primary importance, in a
limited war, to localise the
operations and so avoid an
enlargement of the conflict
leading eventually to unlimited
war. The manned bomber or
rocket - carrying aircraft is
capable of a 'selective accuracy
which no automatic missile can
approach. The manned air-
craft can pick out and destroy
small military targets with the
minimum of damage to their
surroundings. It can find and
attack mobile targets and can
be recalled or diverted after
take-off if necessary.
“For limited wars, therefore,
we shall still need bomber and
ground-attack aircraft.. In
addition, air-forces.of the future
will be responsible for air-
reconnaissance over land and
sea, fof the defencfe in co-
operation with naval forces —
Of our sea-communications and
for military air-transport. We
shall need, in the foreseeable
future, manned aircraft for all
these purposes. The helicopter,
which can undertake a variety
of tasks, will be specially
valuable.
“The aeroplane cannot in
future compete with rocket-
missiles in speed, range, or
altitude. There is thus no
reason to assume that each
successive generation of military
aircraft must be able to fly
faster, higher and further than
its predecessor. We can, on the
contrary, design our aircraft to
meet the foreseeable needs of
air-power in the missile age,
and for many of these jet-
aircraft are unsuitable.
“Air-forces will, as far as we
can see ahead, be replaced by
missiles only in the spheres of
long-range bombing and local
air-defence. The remaining
responsibilities of air-forces
must still be entrusted to
manned aircraft.
“The fact that the [U.K.]
Government envisages a
strength of 140,000 officers and
men in the Royal Air Force in
1962, compared with 160,000
in the Army, shows that the
Air Force will still have a very
large part to play in our
system of defence.
“It is, therefore, a mistake
to suppose that the days of
manned aircraft for military
purposes are over. In the only
type of war we are likely to
have to fight—limited war —
their responsibilities are as great
as ever.”
Various Voices
Viscount Kilmuir: “It has now
become almost a cliche that the
destructive power of the H-
bomb has made all-out global
war less likely. This is subject
to two limitations. First that
some man, somehow, at some
place, at some time, may feel
his personal position and pride
is so compromised that he is
prepared to press the button.
That if the desire of the
majority of great Powers is for
peace at all costs, they may put
themselves at the mercy of the
most ruthless Power until the
manoeuvres of the latter make
the disaster of war preferable to
a brutalising and soulless
peace.”
Donald K. David (former
Dean of the Harvard Graduate
School of Business Administra-
tion): “The real lesson of sput-
nik is the lesson of applying
systematic thought and know-
ledge to the solution of major
national problems. Behind
sputnik we see a rocket, and
behind the rocket we see
advanced science and tech-
nology.”
U.S. Vice-President Nixon: “A
war already has been launched
against us. It is being waged
with the kind of weapons the
Communists heretofore have
used more effectively than guns.
They are political, psycho-
logical and economic. The
battleground is the uncommitted
world with one-third of the
earth’s population, spread
through Asia, Africa and the
Near East. Victory for the
Communists would give them
the economic and human
resources they need to dominate
the rest of the world and force
free countries into eventual
economic and political sur-
render.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Universities
With the Murray report on
Australian universities hot from
the oven, one hopes that some-
thing will be done about
broadening the interests and
outlook of graduates. What
with satellites and scientists,
sputniks and specialists, the
humanities are Cinderella-
subjects, but the cry of “It’s a
specialist’s world” is a sad one,
and its twin wail of “There
isn’t time” is sadder still. So
far as we know, we’re only here
once, and it’s a pity not to
have time for anything enrich-
ing. Granted we must join the
panting mob in the scientific
field if we are to survive at all,
but it is to be hoped that every-
thing in the future won’t end
with, or by, scientific endeavor.
So many specialists, scientific
or otherwise, are, saving their
graduated graces, dull dogs.
Study overseas could surely be
made possible for more than
the chosen few.
Canada seems to have
an efficient and broadening
exchange - system. Under-
graduates go abroad to study,
not the language of the country
they are visiting, but their own
chosen subject in a foreign
university alongside members
of another country. Their
course doesn’t suffer unduly
and they can’t help but absorb
rather more than their selected
subject. Provided you have a
rough grounding in gram-
matical terms and vocabulary,,
it is surprising how quickly
you pick up a reasonable
amount of any language if you
hear very little of anything
else spoken.
Australia could well explore
the Canadian system—or any
other that might broaden our
collective mind. There’s still
truth in: “The world is so full
of a number of things, I am
sure we should all be as happy
as kings.”— Larnaca (N.S.W.).
Singapore
A footnote to that “Plain
English” article which
touched on Singapore (B.
l/l/’58):
The result of the local city-
council elections which
resulted in virtual control of
the city by the Reds bears out
what I have always main-
tained that voluntary
democracy will not work
among people like the
Chinese, and, cursed though
it has been in the past, the
Australian idea of making the
citizenry exercise their right
to vote is the only way.
I don’t know of any other
European who bothered to go
to the polls, which doesn’t
matter, for our time is
running out. But when you
get among the middle-aged
and more responsible Chinese
you find the same thing. Few
of them had any belief in the
secrecy of the ballot, and
although they might decline
the offer of the toughs who
came round with the cars and
the lists of voters, they were
quite convinced that if they
did go they would be marked
men.
The Communists (P.A.P.
are possibly more fellow-
travellers on the surface) were,
as ever, fully organised and
disciplined. They had most
of the. Chinese schoolboys and
schoolgirls—up to 25 years of
age—to help, and they could
tie down an entire area in
advance and then cart them
off to the polls knowing that
there would be no backsliding.
When the main elections
come along in August we will
“I’m in the Special Branch — counter-hauntpionage."
in all probability find that the
Communists have taken over
the island, yet any suggestion
that this ties-up with the
wishes or inclination of the
majority is absurd. Most of
them are dead scared of what
lies ahead, but, as has always
been the case, they cannot help
themselves and nobody else can
help them. Transporticus
(Singapore).
“Our Country”
If Australia really has
developed a “power of
resistance to adverse condi-
tions” (B. 1/1 / ’5B), why the
need to worry at all about
the future, as implied in the
article’s opening paragraph
about the economic uncertainty
facing Australia this year?
Certainly Australia has
feathered a few economic
crises since the end of World
War 11, but none of them has
been on the world-wide scale
of the 1929-32 depression. If
such a world-wide economic
catastrophe did happen along
again, I don’t think Australia’s
“resistance” wouid be strong
enough for us to pass through
unscathed. We’re still too
dependent on overseas prices,
slumps, etc.
The resistance of the
individual to periodic crises
varies somewhat, too; some
crack economically much
earlier than others. As “Our
Country” proved, the Aus-
tralian worker today has every
necessity and just about every
possible luxury. For all that,
come some sort of crisis and
many will be in strife quickly
enough.
For instance, I was in Sydney
at the time of the wicked
1949 (winter) coal-strike, and
I can recall that the Sydney
press easily found many elderly
people suffering from the
enforced cold, who hadn't
enough blankets warm
clothing. Other strikes, too,
have soon reduced plenty of
people (not necessarily the
strikers) to suffering and want.
The temporary unemployment
which followed the Federal
“horror” Budget a few years
ago also brought hardship to
some families. All of which
supports the contention that
an economic crisis could hurt
many people.
Apropos, in connection with
that “Pity the poor Australian! ”
par. at the end of “Our
Country,” which states that “In
drought or in plenty his
economic condition is miles
ahead of that of the Russian”
—l’ve often noted that political
and economic writers in all
sections of the Australian press,
when making the point of-how
much better-off the Australian
worker is than the Russian,
like to quote with approval his
higher wages, shorter hours,
easy conditions, possession of
luxuries, etc. Very good. But
in the next articles you read
by the same writers, when they
get on to-the big slice out of
profits represented by wages,
you'll find that the Australian
worker is grossly overpaid and
doesn’t work nearly hard or
long enough—presumably these
writers would like the
Australian worker brought back
to the level of the Russian? —
Keima (Q.).
Road Safety
Victoria had the unenviable
record of the most road deaths
(24) out of an Australia-wide
total of 62 during the Christ-
mas-New Year holidays.
Against this background the
remarks of the State’s Public
Works Minister (Sir Thomas
Maltby) that a simplification
of the State’s traffic laws is
necessary, rather than adding to
their complexity with new
legislation, are to the point.
Sir Thomas observed that
Parliament had done its part
by reducing the number of
traffic-signs to a basic two
(stop and right-hand turn) and
in other ways streamlining the
codes; the police, too, were
doing their part, and it


Comparison will prove
NLY HOLDEN
gives you so much for your money
Compare Holden for yourself. See how much more Holden gives
you for your money in beauty and roominess. Take a demonstration
run, experience the ease of handling, comfort and performance
Holden combines with outstanding economy. Look at Holden any
way you like you’ll find that in every feature you and your
family want you get more value in Holden.
COMPARE Holden handling ease
Drive Holden yourself. Discover the spirited performance you
get from the famous 6 cylinder 21 h.p. Holden engine. You
never had steering so steady, turning so easy as with Holden recirculating
ball type steering. Over every type of surface and when cornering you’ll find
a wonderful sense of security and stability.
COMPARE Holden economy
Holden economy goes much further than its low first cost it
continues throughout Holden’s long life. There’s the remark-
able operating economy of Holden; its proven dependability, and easy main-
tenance, as well as the wide distribution of low cost factory-guaranteed parts.
And Holden retains a consistently high re-sale value.
m
See your Holden Dealer now. Arrange to COMPARE HOLD EN
FOR YOURSELF ... BY DRIVING HOLDEN YOURSELF.
OLDE!
Australia’s
Own Car
Choose from three Sedan and two
Station Sedan models.
FROM £9lO PLUS TAX
CM AC Hire Purchase available.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLOEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY . MELBOURNE . ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and Serviced by authorised Dealers throughout Australia
remained for the courts to do
their duty by the community in
exacting stiffer penalties.
Some courts were exercising
to the full the powers with
which Parliament had invested
them, but others were shirking
their responsibilities, the
Minister noted.
Unfortunately, this is true, as
any close observer of the
workings of our courts can
testify. Until the courts give
the road-hog, as distinct from
the harmless first-offender (who
is often only guilty of a minor
technical breach), the full
severity of the law, the road-toll
will continue. Plain Aus-
tralian (Vic.).
Gambling
The panel of clergymen
who attended a Sydney race-
meeting to gather facts and
figures to aid the Protestant
Churches’ fight against jack-
pot - tote betting and the
general spread of gambling
won’t be able to do much
without public support.
Sydney has always been the
gamblers’ city of Australia,
and the average Sydneyite will
bet on anything, but during
the Cahill Government's long
tenure of office gambling has
threatened to become the
primary industry in N.S.W.
In fact, lotteries, totalisators,
racecourses and breweries have
been the first concern of the
Sydney Government from the
day that Mr. Cahill and his
cohorts assumed control.
In view of this unhealthy
Governmental grasping for
revenue from gambling, it
behoves liberal - minded
electors to turn out those
Ministers whose chief anxiety
seems to be the welfare of
race-clubs and pubs.
Incidentally, while the
N. S. Wales Labor Govern-
ment openly encourages gamb-
ling (taxation from this source
will touch a new high this
financial year), several big
trade - unions are planning
strikes and disruption for
1958 with the view to gaining
still higher wages. In a per-
verse way, I suppose this
makes some sort of sense —
you can’t bet without chips.
But it’s up to all reasonable
persons to help the Churches
and other responsible bodies to
apply the brake.
Of course Australians
w/7/ bet on anything. A new
gambling - game has struck
Sydney “Budgi Bagatelle.”
According to my Sunday
journal, the budgerigar hops
°n to a bar to peck food,
releases a spring which shoots
up a metal ball to score vary-
ing amounts in round figures
up to 50 at each hop. Even the
bird becomes entranced. —
P. O.M.C. (N.S.W.).
Queensland Uni.
Dr. Sutton, Dean of Queens-
land’s Medical School, has
been reported as attributing
the high proportion of failures
in his faculty to laziness and
lack of interest on the part of
students. University students
have always been fairly lazy,
however, so that cannot
explain the recent increase in
examination failures. As for
lack of interest, isn’t it the task
of Dr. Sutton and his
colleagues to excite interest?
Medicine is not intrinsically
a dull study. '
The basic reason for the
poor results is poor teaching,
Very few 7 of the University
staff have any training in
educational methods. From
my own experience of both I
can testify that Regular Army
instructors are more effective
*than those in the Queensland
University,
Some lecturers are quite
inaudible ; most do not trouble
to ensure that the class under-
stands what they have said;
others speak so fast that the
lecture becomes a frantic
dictation-test. Very often, a
man eminent in his profession
is a joke among the students.
Until these men, undoubtedly
able in their own fields, receive
guidance on teaching-
technique, much youthful
talent will continue to be
wasted. — Invictus (Q.).


CANE GROWERS TAKE NOTICE
SUGAR INDUSTRY ELECTIONS UNDER THE PRIMARY
PRODUCERS’ ORGANISATION AND MARKETING ACTS
1926-1957.
Nominations for the election of members of District Cane
Growers' Executives and Mill Suppliers’ Committees for the term
ending 30th' April, 1961, close with the Returning Officer,
Queensland Cape Growers’ Council, sth Floor, A.M.P. Building,
Corner Queen and Edward Streets. Brisbane (Box 1032 N, G.P.0.,
Brisbane) on TUESDAY, 18th FEBRUARY, 1958, AT 5 P.M.
Nomination papers must be signed by not less than six (6)
cane growers, who must be bona tide suppliers having not less
than live (5) acres of land assigned in their own or firm’s name,
of which not less than three (3) acres are actually under sugar
cane and two (2) acres in the, course of cultivation for growing
sugar cane.
Nomination Forms and full particulars in regard to qualifi-
cations of nominees can be obtained from the Secretaries of the
District Cane Growers’ Executives, and Mill Suppliers’ Committees,
or from the undersigned—
K. A. BLYTH, Returning Officer.
ELECTRONICS AND THE COMMUTER
By PETER MIDDLETON
WHAT may be loosely
’’ termed the “electronics
revolution”—the 20th-century
equivalent of the Industrial
Revolution involves many
factors besides electronics,
although these are basic in the
technique of industrial re-
organisation known as automa-
tion.
This is particularly true in
relation to what might be
called the “administration’ -
side of industry and commerce,
including records, accounting
and management. Latest
developments in this field make
up a story every bit as fascina-
ting as that of the conquest of
space.
The initial revolution created
by the “brain” machines —the
digital computers, data-pro-
cessing machines, and the like —-
has set off a sort of chain-
reaction of ancillary processes
in which such things as TV,
the co-axial cable, multi-
message transmission on single-
voice telephone-line, micro-
film, teletype, the photo-electric
cell and magnetic tape- and
drum-recording are the new
experimental tools.
In Britain, America and
half -a - dozen European
countries, research and prac-
tical work in both the univer-
sities and the huge organisa-
tions which are capable of
handling this work and in need
of applying it to their organisa-
tional problems, exciting new
developments are taking place,
the effects of which could well
change the whole pattern of
administration and make the
typewriter, the adder-computer
and the bookkeeping-machine
as obsolete as the quill pen and
the ancient hand-written ledger.
Giant corporations, such as
banks, insurance companies,
multi-branch retail and manu-
facturing businesses and even
Government departments are
examining problems of
centralising accounts, rapid
communication of information
and instantaneous reproduction
of records at perimeter points
of their widespread organisa-
“I have a very important question , dear-heart—hut first
to soften you with sweet music.”
tions, and are adapting these
new “tools” to their purposes.
Television was first used in
Britain as early as 1953 by the
Glynn Mills Bank for
instant transmission of account-
information from their head
office to country branches. Two
of the largest banks in the
United States, the Savings Bank
of the United States and the
Dime Savings Bank of New
York, use 'it for the same
purpose between central office
and branches. In Australia it
is already in use by the
E., S. and A. Bank in Mel-
bourne. The teletype has been
in use for some years now in
the U.S. for a similar purpose,
and great increases in speed of
transmission have been
achieved.
Banks, with problems
peculiar to their type of busi-
ness, have concentrated a lot
of attention on cheque-handling
devices, one of their chief head-
aches being the mechanical
recording and transmission of
cheque signatures, a lesser one
being the sorting and storing
of cheques. Experiments are
being conducted with micro-
film, photo - electric cell,
magnetic-ink character recogni-
tion, and a process known as
“micro-sensing,” involving the
punching of minute holes in a
cheque too small to interfere
with the movement of a pen
or even to be visible save
when held up to a light.
The great banks of Australia,
like the Commonwealth and the
Bank of New South Wales,
have full-time officers, experts
in this new field of office-auto-
mation, watching developments
overseas and working out
problems of adapting these new
advances in technique to tncir
own vast organisations. Their
chief worry is the fact that
things are moving so fast —it
is difficult to fix on a stage at
which adaptation can safely
be made without the risk of it
becoming obsolete within a few
months or even weeks. And
when the size of their institu-
tions is considered, this caution
can well be understood. For
the Bank of New South Wales,
with over 1000 branches and
agencies throughout Austra-
lasia, any system of centralised
accounting could only involve
probably two-thirds of these ;
even so, a system linking even
that many branches spread over
a continent needs to have at
least a reasonable degree of
permanence about it.
The Commonwealth Savings
Bank, second only in size to
the great Post Office Savings
Bank of the U.K. (48-million
accounts), is contemplating
following the lead of its gigantic
prototype by the centralising
of its five-million accounts.
Many great industrial and
commercial organisations
throughout the country are
“waiting to see which way the
cat jumps.” One thing, how-
ever, is certain: it is only a
matter of time before we shall
see an entirely new pattern of
operations in this field of
accounting and management,
the effects of which will be felt
all through the community, in
education and technical train-
ing, in business efficiency, in
prices and in our very way of
life.
One of the most intriguing
aspects of this revolutionary
trend is its probable influence
on the very shape of our urban,
semi-urban and even rural
civilisation. For one of the
most important changes being
wrought by these startling new
techniques is in the relocation
not only of industry but of
business and commercial under-
takings as well. The trend is
already clearly defined in
Britain, Canada and. the U.S.,
and even to a noticeable degree
in Australia.
What is happening in the
city of Sydney, for instance —
illustrated by the recent estab-
lishment of giant administra-
tive centres, such as that of the
M.L.C. at North Sydney—is
a pointer. -Large corporations
are moving out of the great


figures have made the story
good for all kinds of otherwise
inconsiderable news - items.
They provide the answer to a
newspaper cadet’s dreams.
“Three cars worth £5OOO were
involved in a smash on Princes
Highway.” “An Alsatian worth
£l2O bit a tradesman in a
Sydney suburb.” “Cats worth
£2OOO were exhibited . . .”
’«7ITH this as a formula you
’ ’ can’t go wrong, and I am
confidently looking forward to
the time when it will take over
the new Australian journalism
completely.
Even the social pages will
assume an air of liveliness
when you get items like:
“A bride worth £857 as she
stood was married in Burwood
yesterday.
“The minister of the £27,245
church estimated that the newly
established-family would be
worth an additional £l3 in
collections annually, with a
problematical future increase.
“The bridegroom provided
three hire-cars of a total value
of £7900. Selections were
played on the £5BO (second-
hand) organ by a 25-shilling-
an-hour organist.
“Florists tffid confectioners
estimated the event to be worth
close on £150.”
Or, in columnist style: “A
layette costing £260 was pro-
vided for baby Blow, latest in
the family of the Randwick
Blows, who arrived last night
in the £290,000 hospital annexe.
Joe Blow has laid-out £7 10s.
in cigars and another £6 in
beer.”
Or, to glance rapidly at
other sections of tomorrow’s
paper:
“Horses worth £1,800,000
paraded in the ring at Rand-
wick yesterday. Women wear-
ing clothes valued at £BO,OOO
were in the members’
enclosure.”
“With instruments valued
at £BO,OOO, a heart-surgeon
operated for four hours today
on a mother’s heart.”
There are, of course, stories
which will never fit the
formula. I myself would
hesitate to put any value
whatsoever on, say, the
annual output of Egg Board
eggs, or the quantities of
newspapers banned in
Queensland; but even here
the cadet need not be dis-
mayed. He can accept the
figures of the board or the
newspaper proprietor, how-
ever questionable these may
be.
He no longer need have
any worry as to how he will
write his story. All he has
to do is find a figure, double
it, and attribute it to sqme-
thing. The formula has been
established, and his way is
clear.
He’ll have the additional
satisfaction that he is helping
to build a great newspaper
tradition, in a peculiarly
Sydney style ; even New York
still thinks of Christmas in
an old-fashioned way rather
than in terms of £4,000,000
a day—or 10-million dollars
an hour, or whatever theirs
can be guessed at.
Not for us the false values
of another age; no pennies,
no widow’s mites in our
Christmas. It’s a four-million-
a-day job, and the world had
better know it. And our
yacht-race? A magnificent
achievement: £178,000 risked
by sportsmen—and if you
don’t like the figure, write
one yourself. Our news-
papers, I dare say, will bo
happy to use it.
cities in search of space to set
up the new-type administrative
centre this centralising of
accounts demands, and in doing
so are finding it necessary to
include in their plans a whole
range of amenities for the
comfort and happiness of their
staff, and these centres are
impinging in no uncertain way
on the life of existing com-
munities around them.
In Canada, for instance,
such moves have been made
by several of the great insur-
ance offices, notably the
London Life, the Mutual Life
of Canada and the Metro-
politan of New York in
Canada. The Prudential Life
of America has taken this
step, as has the American
National Mutual Life, which
recently opened its new head-
quarters in the relatively small
town of Galveston, Texas.
The prospects of the appli-
cation of these new trends in
Australia is full of interesting
possibilities. Since the rapidity
and ease of communi-
cation by the new techniques
does away with the need for a
central office in the heart of a
great city, with its congestion,
its high site-costs and its traffic
problems, we may soon see the
rapid rise of dozens of satellite
towns all over the country, or
the sudden expansion of rural
centres, based on these new
colossi.
The impact of this sort of
thing on “problem” towns like
Cessnock, for instance, could
be revitalising and wholly
beneficial. Its effect on the
current problems of over-
crowding, high-cost housing,
transport-congestion and the
like, in present-day cities,
could be equally salutary.
The prospect looms of healthy
redistribution of the popula-
tion by painless, constructive
and natural trends —without
the need for the proclama-
tions and compulsions of
planners.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 469
Across
I—A plucky merchant navy takes on Clytemnestra’s victim.
(9)
5 —A kind of lizard. (5)
B—Smashed8 —Smashed up next to soil a remonstrance. (13)
10 —Where is His Majesty’s heart staining with printer’s
fluid. (6)
12 —River she diverted for a cold character. (8)
14 — Frozen surf game to get the party
going. (3-7)
15 — Imitate an animal. (3)
18 — Film cowboy to muddle 1009, (3)
19— Billet-doux suggests nothing to a
landlord. (4-6)
22t—A great XI re-formed as an act of
grace. (2, 6)
23 —An election to duck a manly
god. (6)
25 —Feature of symphonic music or
the bust share of restricted
supplies. (13)
27 — Famous ballet man could become
frail. (5)
28 — Capable of informing one
Italian conductor, recently killed
in an air crash. (8) ..
Down
1 — Imitator takes it, if an
appetiser. (8)
2 Mountain force in Australian
politics. (3)
3 Where Hamlet passed away
letters unextracted from their
native rock. (8)
4 When we pass away common-
sense. (4)
5 King George I and the first lady
go into mourning. (6)
6 Tending towards the middle tripe
in the middle of 20-down. (11)
7 Awards put across badly. (6)
9 —Who accomplishes a current
greeting always? (8)
11 —Lots „of byes; lots of missed
snicks and stumpings and run-
outs. But it’s only a very simple
game! (8, 3)
13 —The line’s bus girl. (8)
16—A mould met up with a dish at
somewhere in the temple. (8)
17—One rang from this region in
France. (7)
20—“ Lancet” is edited for a hundred
pounds. (6)
21—East Indian seaman with the
French remnant of an old wound.
(6)
24—Letter upset a school. (4)
26—Crook. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 468


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
TIME-AND-MOTION STUDY
nrHE science of time-and-
motion study, or simply
“work-study,” now being
applied extensively to industry,
could yield very profitable
results in agriculture—particu-
larly in dairying, where so
many movements are repeated
ad infinitum.
Time-and-motion study is
concerned not so much with
what is being done as with how
it is being done. Other sciences
determine what are the best
processes to use in growing a
crop, in breeding a certain
type of animal, or in producing
milk of high quality, but work-
study aims at getting the utmost
economy and effectiveness in
the effort of labor and
management that is applied to
the carrying-out of a process.
It does this by closely exami-
ning every movement that is
made, every second that is spent
on the job, reducing time and
effort by rearranging gear and
replanning routines so that
unnecessary effort is cut out
altogether.
Take, for instance, the con-
stant, monotonous but all-
When marking lambs
it is advisable to start
operations early in
the day to give the
lambs plenty of time
to “mother up” after
the treatment. The
use of Elastrator
Rubber Rings rather
than the knife is also
advisable.
important task of milking, now
done with machines on prac-
tically all full-time dairies.
It is performed 730 times a
year. For a herd of 30 cows,
each separate part of the milk-
ing process is done nearly
22,000 times, and even a tiny
saving in time or effort mounts
up to a considerable yearly
gain. Milking is the kind of
operation in which a high
degree of work-study can»be
applied.
If you value your time at
“ l|d. a minute, the saving of
three-seconds on each cow
would amount to nearly £7 in
the year. This saving would
finance a gadget or alteration
worth £2O and lasting five
years, and there would still be
a net gain of a pound or two
per annum.
The average milking-speed
in N.S.W. is said to be 19 cows
per man per hour. Speeds in
some other places range to 30,
40 and even to 60 per man per
hour, so there will surely be
plenty of profit in our taking
a searching look at our methods
of milking.
Comfort and contentment of
the cows must always be a main
point in considering milking
methods because of its vital
effect on milk-production, but
speeding-up need not hurt the
cows or lower production.
Speed is gained by having a
man attend to as many units as
he can, thoroughly and care-
fully. If everything is stream-
lined, he can work three or
four units alone, or two men
can work six units instead of
having two men on four units.
The rate is further improved by
attention to every detail until
the man is right up on to the
best the machine is able to do.
Contented cows on a well-
known routine will let their
milk down easily and quickly
and their time in the bails caq
be reduced from 12 to 10 and
even to eight minutes each.
With mechanical feeders, con-
centrates can be fed at the
same time.
Feeding in the bails brings
the cows pressing ,in all the
time —no going out into the
yard after them.
Good mechanical condition
of the machine, particularly of
the pulsators and the teat-cups,
saves a great deal of the time
the operator might spend
pressing on the claws to get
out the last of the milk.
Every movement in the
dairy can be the subject of
work-study. Burning just any
old rubbish in the boiler may
lose more in stoking-time than
it would cost to get solid wood
in the proper size. Attention to
boiler, cooler and separator can
usually be given when a man
is at that end of the building
doing something connected
with the milking, instead of
having to do it as a separate
job. The placing of the strip-
cups and teat-washing water
needs careful thought and
experiment.
The big step recently in dairy
design is the raising of the
cows on floors above that on
which the milker stands, so
that he doesn’t have to stoop
or crouch. It is* much faster
and less tiring and enables him
to milk more cows. This would,
in many cases, pay for quite
new buildings, but it is often
possible to raise the floors
under the cows in existing run-
through bails.
There needs to be clearance
between the cows and the pipes
or room to raise the pipes so
as to put in concrete blocks
to raise the cows 15in. to 18in.
above the rest of the floor.
Feeders must go up, too, and
strip-cups and wash-water are
put at about waist-height in
each bail.
Cows don’t need a long
gentle ramp—they will learn to
go up and down steps. An
American experiment found a
12in. tread and a 3in. rise to
be best. This seems fairly true,
but I have found that the
bottom step can be done with-
out altogether, thus reducing
the intrusion of the blocks on
to the operator’s floor. The
plan must be studied to see
that the operator doesn't have
to hike around or over steps or
ramps, or have to climb on the
blocks to open gates or tie-up
cows.
When your own speed creeps
up to 35 or 40 an'hour, those
claims to speeds of 60 an hour
don't seem so fantastic after all. f
Not the least important effect
of work-study is that it
engenders a spirit of inquisitive
scepticism—the attitude of
mind known as the “scientific
outlook.” Once you begin to
examine closely everything you
do, you get the habit of doubt-
ing even the oldest-established
traditional practices until you
have seen them thoroughly
tested. You look for more
reliable proof of their value
than the statement “Oh, we’ve
always done it this way! ”
Work-study, as well as
opening-up the way to new
efficiency in methods* may
easily open up our minds to a
healthy examination of even the
most basic principles of farm-
ing.
Aerogenes.
Drought-feeding
Cattle
Tt is well known that under
drought-conditions sheep can
be maintained successfully on
an all-grain ration. C.5.1.R.0.,
in collaboration with the
Faculty of Rural Science at the
University of New England,
has been investigating the use
of an all-grain ration of wheat
for cattle under simulated
drought-conditions. In spite of
the present shortage of wheat
and other grains for stockfeed,
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(2/1/’58)
Heavy rain on Queensland’s far north coast and
Peninsula is indicated during February, with light to
moderate, patchy rains elsewhere in the State. In March,
heavy rain and flooding is likely in northern areas.
Apart from patchy rains on the coast, N.S.W. will
probably get only poor rainfall in February, but there will
probably be some moderate rain on the coast, central and
northern tablelands, and in the central west during March.
Poor rainfall is indicated for Victoria during February;
good general rains are unlikely until May.
February may be a dry month for'South Australia, with
general rains beginning in May:
Moderate rain likely in the North Kimberleys of W.A.
during February, but rainfall will probably be light in the
balance of the Kimberleys, and poor elsewhere in the State.
There should be good rains in March.
LENNOX WALKER.


SCOOP
EARTH
f
MOULDBOARD PLOUGH
MULTI
PURPOSE
BLADE
lj /*
POST
HOLE
DIGGER
ROTARY HOE
n
m
12
WINCH
II
*
TRANSPORTER
DISC
PLOUGH
BUCK
RAKE
/7>
§)
GRAIN-DR LL
~r Anywhere power can be used
'YhfaScn
Fills THE BILL
n
MULTI
PURPOSE
SPRAY
W
m
The Prime Mover in
6 models from £BlO
upwards - and a
range of over 100
Implements and
Attachments to
choose from!
With the FERGUSON SYSTEM you get:—
# Efficiency of operation.'
# Power without inbuilt weight.
# Simplicity of handling.
# Flexibility and manoeuvrability.
# Maximum economy.
# The most advanced hydraulics
yet introduced.
9 Scientifically designed, quality
built implements.
# Low initial cost high resale
value.
# On the farm service second to none.
Ask for a demonstration and you, too, will be convinced.
BRITISH TRACTOR & IMPLEMENTS
PTY. LTD.
Sydney Street, New Farm, Brisbane. ’Phone: LW 1011


DINGO
DESTRUCTION
No. 14 “ONEIDA”
JUMP TRAP
Jin.
Jaws
0
2Jlb.
Outstanding efficiency as Dingo
catcher, well established in sheep
lands of Queensland for over forty
years.
Further particulars from
R. J. MURPHY
Box 555, G.P.0., TownsTille, Q.
Sole agent for Australia.
this summary of the results may
well be of value to some of
the many stockowners who are
faced with the problem of
carrying cattle through the
present dry period with in-
adequate natural grazing.
In an experiment carried out
at Armidale (N.S.W.), 18-
month-old Hereford steers were
fed successfully on a ration of
wheaten grain with tlje addition
of 1 per cent, ground-limestone,
for a period of 20 weeks. The
cattle were fed in pens and no
other food was available.
When observations com-
menced the cattle were in
moderate store-condition and
had an average weight of
5861 b. The wheat-ration was
2.81 b. per head per day, and at
this level of feeding no digestive
disturbances were observed.
However, care was taken to
bring the cattle on to the all-
grain ration gradually, and for
the first two weeks some oaten-
hay was also fed. The quantity
of hay was gradually reduced
from 3.51 b. per head per day to
nil during this introductory
period.
Over the 20 weeks of the
experiment the average loss in
liveweight was 1591 b., but the
cattle remained in good health,'
and there were no deaths. Com-
parable reductions in liveweight
occurred in similar cattle fed
on a ration of I.Blb. wheaten-
grain and I.Blb. oaten-hay,
which provided approximately
the same number of food-units
per head per day as the 2.81 b.
of wheaten-grain.
In a second drought-feeding
experiment now in progress at
Armidale, and with the same
cattle, a comparison is being
made of daily and weekly feed-
ing of the all-grain ration,
which has been increased to
3.51 b. of wheat per head per
day. Over an eight-week period,
results of weekly and dajly feed-
ing have been generally com-
parable. However, there are
indications that weekly feeding
may not always be suitable in
the case of very weak animals,
Although wheat was used in
these experiments, oats or
other grains could be sub-
“I suppose the ants who built THAT hill
are pretty formidable ?”
stituted, if available. Ten
pounds of wheat or barley"Sre
approximately equal in food-
value to 91b. maize or 121 b.
oats.
Tranquillisers
“Owen” : Tranquillising
drugs, which have been used
successfully in human medicine
during recent years, are proving
valuable also in the stock-
raising industries.
Under controlled experiments
with temperatures as high as
113 deg. F., hens which had the
drugs showed fewer deaths,
higher production and better
shell-quality in their eggs.
First heifer-calves on tran-
quillising drugs took to milk-
ing with much less trouble.
They were calmer and easier to
handle.
Latest reports from U.S.A.
describe the use of tran-
quillisers to quieten cattle
during long transport to
market, with consequent
savings in carcass-quality and
reduced losses of up to 16 per
cent, of weight during the
journey. One shot of tran-
quilliser keeps the animal
contented for three days.
Tranquilliser is administered
to fractious beasts by the novel
method of firing it into the
rump with a specially adapted
rifle. While legal for use in
beasts during a journey, tran-
quillisers cannot be used
immediately before slaughter,
in case they have a bad effect
on the consumer.
In view of this overseas
experience, tranquillisers could
have uses in Australia where
long haulages to market are a
big disadvantage to local beef-
production. Even in the Vic-
torian Wimmera, about 250
miles from Melbourne, a cattle-
owner got up to £2O a head
more for his beasts recently
when they were taken to New-
market by road in several hours,
instead of having to withstand
the rigors of a rail-journey on
a schedule 'which required a
long period between loading
and the auction.
Vitamin-A'
“Pinefield”: Dry feed over
most of the Commonwealth
emphasises the need for
vitamin-A in all classes of stock
—especially pigs and poultry—
at this time of the year.
Vitamin-A can be supplied
in supplements and fish-oils, but
on most properties it is more
economical to give greenfeed,
where possible.
Summer-crops, such as
lucerne, are fruitful sources of
vitamin-A, and are worth
encouraging even if it means
installing a small irrigation-
plant on the property. If live
fodder is not available, well,
leafed clover-hay is an excellent
substitute.
Perennial Pastures
“Balemo”: Although it’s a
waste of money to irrigate
natural pasture, some benefits
can follow the watering of
improved annual species such
as sub.-clover and Wimmera-
ryegrass in private irrigation-
schemes. Advantages include
lengthening both ends of the
growing season, the need for
less water than perennials
require, and the guarantee
of good autumn growth—
especially important to the
lambing flock.
However, as the watering of
annuals still leaves a big gap
greenfeed over the summer,
Jit pays to plough-up annual
swards and resow them to
perennial species such as white-
clover, cocksfoot, perennial-
ryegrass and phalaris, to give
greenfeed right through the hot
period. This has special
advantages for the dairy-herd.
For efficient use, farm-
pastures irrigated from private
dams, bores or creeks need
just as good management as
swards watered from channels
in the recognised irrigation-
districts.
Ducks and Rice
“Berde”: Keep your rice-
crops healthy and free of
weeds and you will reduce the
chance of damage by wild-
ducks—in the Murrumbidgee
Irrigation Area, anyway—is the
advice of C.5.1.R.0.’s H. J.
Frith, who has made a special
study of the problem.
Damage varies according to
■seasons, but it is apparent
that some ducks—notably the
river-duck like weed-seeds
better than rice. Under some
conditions, grey-teal will not
touch rice.
. The wood-duck rarely eats
grain, but it can cause havoc
among young plants if allowed
to remain in an area for more
than a day or two.
Contrary to the opinion of
many ricegrowers,\ducks don’t
affect germination much by
'puddling the ground, unless
they are allowed to continue.
Frith concludes that the best


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin, ’’ to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ....
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Bmpire .... £2/18/6
Foreign ...» £3/6/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
wa y to reduce the risk of
damage is to give greater atten-
tion to grading of the seed-bed
and crop-husbandry generally.
Timely patrolling and shooting
in the ricefields is better than
indiscriminate firing in and
around the irrigation areas.
"Royal Jelly"
“B-herd”: Figures and facts
can be selected to suit a
particular line of argument:
“Geep” (B. 1/1 / *5B) has picked
an interesting parcel of them
to back his scepticism con-
cerning royal-jelly. For my
part, although “Geep”
apparently found something in
one of my earlier pars, to
support his opinion, I wouldn’t
go nearly as far as “Geep”
does in condemnation. ‘
For Ihe past half-year the
columns of the “Australasian
Beekeeper” in fact, the
columns of the world’s beekeep-
ing journals have been
crammed with facts and figures
tending to show that royal-
jelly has rejuvenating properties.
In the December issue of the
“Australasian Beekeeper” four
pages are devoted to the results
of experiments carried out by
a very impressive group of
scientists at the University of
Florence. These findings do
not tie-in with “Geep’s”
research—“proving,” of course,
that “Geep” studied the wrong
reports.
I don’t believe the scientists
at Florence have any axe to
grind. Anyone who takes the
trouble to delve will find
supporting scientific opinion
from other countries on the
virtues of royal-jelly.
Unfortunately, there has been
no research on royal-jelly in
Australia, and reports that
filter in from overseas do little
to promote the use of it. But
the local demand is increasing,
which seems to indicate that
the stuff is selling practically on
its merits. Any beefarmer sell-
ing commercially can produce
a sheaf of “It’s-doing-me-good”
testimonials.
Regarding “Geep’s” deter-
mination to keep it out of his
medicine-chest because of
possible harmful results I
know at least two 70-year-
olds who have been taking it
for years, and although they
haven’t as yet laid any eggs,
they can still scratch their way
through a mountain of work.
Views such as those put
forward by “Geep” are of
v alue in so far as they provide
a brake, a counterbalance, to
the profit-motivated claims of
businessmen. But one can carry
that sort of thing too far.
Taking note of a point “Geep”
raised about tomatoes and
mushrooms, one might possibly
—following the same line of
argument—conclude he had a
vested interest in small-crops.
It’s unwise to swing too far
either way from centre.
Fruit for Shows
“Sundowner”: Entering fruit
from the orchard in agricultural
shows is valuable experience
for the grower.
Uniformity in size is a
“must” in a selection. For
apples and pears, in culinary
classes, |in. difference in
diameter is allowed between
fruits, but in all other classes
the margin is 1/16 in.
Stone-fruits have no such
restriction: in all kinds of
stone-fruit, sizes above the
average for any particular
variety should be chosen. How-
ever, don’t overdo this, or
points will be lost for oversize
fruit.
Sizes for citrus-fruits are
definitely fixed as follows:
lemons, 2|in. to 2^in.; oranges,
2|in. to 3in.; grapefruit, 4in. to
4^in.
Citrus specimens should be
as uniform as possible for size,
shape, color and maturity.
Generally, shape should be
characteristic of the variety.
Colored fruits pose special
problems, as too much color
may be considered a defect.
Here again, coloring above that
characteristic for a variety is
often a fault of home-orchard
exhibits.
Clean each fruit so as to
remove any spray-residues, but
retain the natural bloom,
particularly with cherries,
plums and grapes.
In making collections, con-
sider market-values at the time
and the popularity of different
fruit. Make selections early in
the growing season, and avoid
bruising or damaging the fruit
in any way.
Crop Forecasts
“Metung”: The belief that
wheat-yields are largely deter-
mined by rainfall during the
growing-period had a bit of a
knock this season, when 12
bags to the acre were harvested
on some properties in the
Victorian Mallee, and up to 15
bags in the Wimmera, after
rainfalls several inches below
normal.
A feature of many crops was
the way the wheat-heads filled
well to the top —as opposed to
the brown, sterile tips usual
under dry conditions.
The obvious reason for these
unexpectedly happy results was
the very wet preceding year,
when many acres of crop could
not be sown, and paddocks
were under fallow for two
years.
Under normal conditions, on
good fallows, the amount of
rain during the growing period
is important. It will certainly
be of vital importance this year.
Very little moisture went into
the fallows during 1957.
Plastics
“J.W.”: The fields in which
plastic materials can be
economically used are by no
means exhausted —in fact, it
seems that the surface of their
potential has been barely
scratched.
One recent example is the
40-ton stack of baled silage
feeding a herd of milkers
down at Yarra Glen. This was
covered with a black poly-
thene-film cover. When opened
seven months later the silage
was found to be of excellent
quality, with about two fork-
fuls of waste, and the cover
itself, after being battered by
high winds, rain and drought
conditions, showed no sign of
seam-weakness or rents and
tears, and it was fit for use
again.
The explanation for the
color of the cover is that black
polythene is suitable for out-
door use as it is completely
lightproof and is not affected
by the ultra-violet rays of the
sun.
Owing to its ability to resist
any action from alkalis, acids,
or salt water, both clear and
black polythene-film have been
put to many tasks.
A prominent fertiliser-manu-
facturing company has erected
a demonstration “temporary
field - storage - dump” near
Sydney. The dump is 10ft. by
10ft. by 4ft. high, walled with
boards, and roofed with black
plastic-film .008 in. thick.
Filled to capacity, it holds 15
tons of bulk superphosphate.
Erected in the paddock, it can
cut down on the double cartage
and handling involved in
orthodox supering.
Seepage from dams and
irrigation-channels can be com-
pletely eliminated —as demon-
strated by the l|-acre dam built
to supply a small town with
water, which refused to hold the
stuff until it was lined with poly-
thene.
People in the high country
can now grow early frost-
susceptible vegetables. Tents
or row covers can be very easily
constructed, using clear poly-
thene, and giving the same
result as an expensive glass-
house. And if plants are
grown through holes cut in
sheets of black plastic spread
over the garden-bed, the film
acts as an excellent mulch,
preventing excessive evapora-
tion, crust, and weed-growth.
The soil-temperature is also
raised, giving the plants an
additional boost.
Experiments carried out by
the N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture have proved P.V.C.
film to be an improvement on
the time-honored raffia for
tying-up buds and grafts.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
What did Sydney talk about during the
week? Leaving Certificate results and
back-to-school clothes; sales and the
jackpot tote; the £lOO,OOO lottery and
how it raised £160,000 for the Opera
House; the gambling-fever generally,
and the organising of protests against it;
the wonder-swimmers lisa and John
Konrads, Latvian-born, who look to be
able to keep the- swimming-records in
Australia for some time ahead; Rita
Hayworth, Burt Lancaster and James
Cagney, to come to Australia to film
“The Summer of the 17th Doll.”
☆ ☆ ☆
At this point in a dry summer, it is felt
that Sydney should pass a vote of thanks
to various migrants from the north who
are brightening up the city with their
looks and vitality. The migrants, long-
established here now, are the oleander, the
frangipani, the hibiscus and the bougain-
villea. Not only in the luscious gardens
of the North Shore line, but also in the
sandy strips of the eastern suburbs, the
oleander is blooming in red, pink and
white as never before, fresh, colorful and
lovely. The frangipani brings its exotic
scent and creamy flowers to the hardiest
little gardens in industrial suburbs, and
this year is outdoing itself in blooms. The
hibiscus and the bougainvillea are to be
seen in profusion and in a great variety
of colors, from soft-pink to deep-red.
Sydney is grateful to these flowers in
1958. They have made it possible for
the New Year to come in on a cloud of
blossoms.
☆ ☆ ☆
There were many A.B.C. identities at
the wedding of Anthea Akon and Anthony
Evans at Christ Church, North Sydney, as
both bride and ’groom are members of
the commission staff. Anthony, who as
a Fulbright scholar studied rural docu-
mentaries in lowa (U.S.A.), has been
closely associated with the A.B.C.’s broad-
casts “The Land and Its People,” and has
helped in the establishment of the com-
mission’s TV-feature “Australia Un-
limited.” He and his bride will settle in
Melbourne, where he is supervisor of
rural broadcasts in Victoria. Anthea is
the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. H. Akon,
of Artarmon; Anthony is the son of
Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Evans, of Rose Bay.
☆ ☆ ☆
Anyone interested in fashions and
who sees the film “Les Girls,” at the
Liberty, should watch out particularly for
the knitted sweaters and cardigans the
girls wear. The new lines they feature
would seem to sound the death-knell of
the classic twin-set which has had such a
fantastically long run of popularity.
Particularly striking is the sweater
worn by Taina Elg which features a low
cowl-neckline with a bulky ribbed collar
turned back from it—the colors, sand
and gunmetal. In another scene Mitzi
Gaynor wears a striking cardigan of
broad black and white vertical stripes
with white basque and binding, and Kay
Kendall has a white jumper with a circu-
lar yoke and a turtle-collar in white, the
vaaety ’ Perha£ the most
5 5 . J • Kr ir a
dramatic jumper worn is Kay Kendall s
tobacco-brown top to matching tapered
l*“' s - The top has a stripe in poison-
green at centre-back and centre-front,
and , he linle green scar£ tucked jnto
high neckline completes a really dashing
outfit.
Pretty Gay Dyson, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. C. H. Dyson, of Roseville, has
just announced her engagement to Bryan
Buckingham, son of Mr. and Mrs. I. C.
Buckingham, of Vaucluse. Gay’s engage -
ment-ring is a solitaire diamond. The
young couple plan to marry in September.
Photo by Norton Trevaire.
There is an all-Australian pantomime
at the Mosman Town Hall. Written and
produced by Frank Allden, it stars
Robert Hatherly, as Dame Seaweed, and
Keith Goddard, as Blackbeard, with
many well-known Australian singers and
actors, including Betty Parsons and Betty
Cheal. It will be on next weekend
(Friday and Saturday nights, with a
matinee on Saturday) and, with a similar
number of performances, the following
weekend.
* ☆ *
Dame Sybil Thorndike will give a
poetry-reading in the vestibule of the
Sydney Town Hall on Thursday, January
30. Proceeds are in aid of the Sydney
Opera House fund, the Ladies’ Com-
mittee of which are the organisers.
* ☆ *
This is a season of the year when
there is (or seems to be) more time for
reading than at any other season. In this
week’s list arrived a book, Dear Primitive
(Angus and Robertson), by Marjorie
Gartrell, which throws light on the life
and nature of aborigines living in far-out
areas of Central Australia.
Miss Gartrell, who was a nursing-
Sister among the aborigines, believes that
the reserves have vital work to do, and
that the primitive native is not fitted for
civilised life, nor can he cope with it. On
the other hand, he does not wish to be
left strictly alone by the white man, for
he wants those commodities that make his
life easier, and the younger generation
in particular recognise the value of
modern medicine. Moreover, she says,
“Those who want the native left alone
seem to picture the Territory as a wide
space, for ever empty. But this is not so.
All good land has long been taken up
.... There will soon be no room for
the Stone Age.”
The position of women among the
aborigines is a particularly pitiful one,
especially in regard to the marriage-laws,
which often betroth a new-born baby girl
to a man who may be 40 years old. When
she is adolescent he claims her and she
has no voice in her future, though she
frequently fights furiously to resist the
marriage.
Regarding childbirth among the
aborigines, Miss Gartrell corrects the
impression that native women do not
suffer when having their babies. Lubras
are silent about their troubles, and their
confinements are shorter, but they are by
no means free from pain. Great privacy
is maintained about the actual birth,
which is seldom seen by whites, and the
lubras never discuss it with them, as they
dislike questions dealing with intimate
subjects.
There are many humorous incidents
included in the book, some exasperating
to the white people, as with the witch-
doctor who used to sit in the yard of the
hospital and claim all the credit for
cures, or when the native who had been
sent to Alice Springs to learn about
hygiene, so that he could instruct his
fellow-aborigines, lectured Miss Gartrell
about leaving uncovered the custard she
was making.
Written in an unaffected manner, Dear
Primitive is pleasant and instructive
reading, with some interesting chapters on
the Flying Doctor Service and Albert
Namatjira—subjects on which most of
us know something, but just not enough.
☆ ☆ ☆
Included in the week’s news was the
information that the two gnus at the
zoo had produced a baby gnu, which was
taken from them immediately it was born,
as they have killed all their other babies.
Apparently they think that no gnus is
good gnus.


down the seniority-list? The R.A.F. dis-
regarded seniority in choosing the opera-
tional commanders —men like Bomber
Harris were comparatively junior in 1939.
No. There was no need to seek else-
where. There was no lack of good men
in the R.A.A.F. All that was needed
was firm action by the War Cabinet to
eliminate bureaucratic control and clear
the field so that efficient operational
commanders could take off.
It is a sad commentary that in Aus-
tralia we can produce the men to meet
the emergency, provided the emergency
will wait for the turn-up on the seniority
list.
And Air Board took care that no man,
however capable, got ahead in rank. It
was as an Air Commodore that Scherger
took over command of Ist Tactical Air
Force in 1945. The establishment was
for an Air-Vice-Marshal. Scherger had
to work with the A.I.F. Corps Com-
mander (lieutenant-general) and divisional
commanders (major-generals). In similar
circumstances the R.A.F. would have
given acting rank immediately on appoint-
ment, but Scherger got nothing. Not
even a pat on the back in the Official
History for changing Ist T.A.F. from a
bedraggled chook to a fighting-cock.
Air Board won, and there were no
changes. The R.A.A.F. remained split
from the top. For most of the time
between 1943 and 1945, morale was de-
plorably low. Just before Scherger took
over the command, the A.I.F. in Morotai
referred to Ist T.A.F. as the “Air Force
kanakas.” Good officers, in desperation,
tried to resign. A royal commission
investigated—but didn’t investigate in
Melbourne, where the trouble originated.
The lessons to be learned from the
Official Histohy are the destructive effect
of bureaucratic grip on a fighting force,
and the disastrous effect of divided
control.
Have the lessons been learned?
We still have four Service Ministers for
what is really a small defence force. We
have, as “Ek Dum” pointed out (B.
'2O/11/’57), a steadily growing civilian
component while the uniformed strength
is dwindling. Obviously there is still too
tight a bureaucratic grip on the Services.
And, although the R.A.A.F. is now
favored more than the other Services, the
R.A.A.F. still suffers from its chronic
complaint —shortage of aircraft.
We have the burden of defence costs.
Are we getting value for the money spent?
Or are we still mucking about?
MELBOURNE
Ursula Jeans wears some beautiful
ensembles in “The Great Sebastians,” the
melodramatic comedy which had its
premiere at the Comedy Theatre. Her
first gown, cut in classical style, is of
white chiffon ; next she is seen in a full-
skirted housecoat with white embroidered
organdie mounted on blue ; finally a gown
which combines a billowy skirt of
brilliant-red tulle and strapless bodice of
sparkling red sequins.
In the audience were Mrs. Alfred
Fowler, wearing a short full frock of
dove-grey satin, the bodice finished with
sequin embroideries; Roma Stephens,
who chose a short frock of green
iridescent silk-taffeta highlighted at the
neckline with a brilliant motif ; Mrs. Ken
Hadley, her choice a white guipure-lace
blouse and short bouffant taffeta skirt;
Mrs. A. G. Silk, in a sheath of brown
floral-patterned silk; Mrs. Colin
Norman, whose lace frock was in deep-
cyclamen tonings; Mrs. Fred Dennett,
who wore garnet-red satins; and Mrs.
Garnet Carroll, who draped her royal-
blue silk-shantung frock with white
Arctic-foxes.
* ☆ *
Colorful, comfortable and smart
casuals, - long identified with American
women, took pride of place in previews
of autumn and winter fashions. The
jersey dress, tweed coat, tweed suit and
the coat that goes over everything are
becoming styles to please all ages. New
to this country will be the huge-knit
outsize sweaters, which take little time
to knit and can be worn with almost any
frock. One of the most attractive sweater-
cardigans was-in royal-purple wool and
originally came from the Christian Dior
salon. It had a roll-collar, large, wide
sleeves, and finished way below the hips,
dipping slightly at the back. In direct
contrast was an olive-green jersey dress
cut on sheath-lines and topped with a
buttoned but loose waist-length jacket in
matching herringbone tweed.
Back again is the perfect spectator-
coat in oversized shepherd’s checks. It
can be worn over sports clothes or over
wool or jersey frocks. With it go simple
accessories, such as a casual felt hat, pig-
skin gioves and bag. The short reefer-
jacket also looks well in shepherd’s
checks. Every wardrobe needs a gay
coat, warm and colorful for those dreary
winter days. Forget brown, black, navy
and dark-green —splurge on a red coat!
There was one with a draped collar and
big, easy sleeves, and it was dressed-up
with a head-hugging hat of ocelot cloth
matched by a large bag.
The trend now is for every frock to
have its jacket. One, a sapphire-blue
Wool skirt, made in unpressed pleats, was
topped with a short, sleeved jacket, waist-
length and full, and under it was a blouse
°f matching Paisley-silk. The blouse, by
the way, finished in a large pussy-cat bow
a t the neckline. For the theatre, there was
a silver-and-white lame jacket-suit
embellished with rhinestone buttons and
crystal beads. And for cocktails or
dining-out, why not a black faille jacket-
suit, with just one large pink rose at one
shoulder for color-contrast?
A native of Swan Hill, Pauline Oulton
is now secretary of the Little Theatre in
South Yarra. The job does not allow her
much time for acting, but she has
managed to appear in several plays over
the past few years; best-remembered of
her roles were those in “Serious Charge,”
“The Grass Harp” and, more recently,
“Under Milk Wood.” Pauline collects
recordings of medieval music as a hobby,
sings with a choral group and is fond of
swimming and horse-riding.
John Sumner, manager in Victoria for
the Elizabethan Theatre Trust, will pro-
duce “Lola Montez,” a musical based on
this famous personality of the Ballarat
goldfields’ days of a century ago. The
title-role will be sung by mezzo-soprano
Justine Rettick, who was “discovered” by
Gertrude Johnson, of the Union Theatre
Movement. Justine, who, besides master-
ing a lengthy script, will have to learn the
Spider Dance for which Lola was famed,
has just returned from Tasmania, where
she appeared as Carmen in a production
arranged by Tasmania’s Fine Arts
Council and the Trust. She was principal
mezzo-soprano with the Italian Grand
Opera Company which the Firm brought
out a few years ago. “Lola Montez” will
have its premiere at the Union Theatre on
February 19.
☆ ☆ ☆
Group-Captain P. R. Beare (R.A.F.)
and Mrs. Beare (who will be leaving for
England in February) gave a dinner-party
at their Brighton home to farewell Air-
Vice-Marshal and Mrs. Douglas Candy.
The Air-Vice-Marshal has been appointed
to R.A.A.F. Home Command and he and
his wife and daughter Adrienne will make
their home at the R.A.A.F. station at
Penrith (N.S.W.). Among the guests were
Chief of Air Staff Air-Marshal F. R. W.
Scherger and Mrs. Scherger; Air-Vice-
Marshal and Mrs. A. M. Murdoch ; Air-
Vice-Marshal and Mrs. R. Willock;
Rear-Admiral and Mrs. R. S. Wellby;
U.S. Air Attache Cpl. John Hussey and
Mrs. Hussey ; Air-Commodore F. Head-
lam ; Mr. and Mrs. Aubrey Gibson, Mrs.
W. Garing, Mrs. B. Armstrong and
Mr. G. Ricketts.


had dropped out of hearing of
the rest. Then he said with
deliberate patience.
“Now look here. What’s the
good of going on like this? I
know what people are saying
about me and Judy, but whose
fault is it? I want to marry
her, but she’s afraid to do it
without your consent.”
“Do you think I want my
daughter to marry a man like
you?” Harkness said dis-
gustedly.
“Well, Judy’s ready to
marry me. She has been all
along ; she ought to know what
she wants.”
Harkness tore himself free
in a fury.
“I’ll never give my consent,
and if she marries you without
it, she won’t get a penny of my
property. That’s all you’re
after, isn’t it? My money.”
Lacey remained unperturbed.
“It would be handy; but
that’s not the main reason. It’s
Judy I really want.”
But Harkness wouldn’t
listen. He hurried to catch up
with the group. He caught them
at the edge of the scrub, when
they were halted by a shout
from Lacey. He gathered them
around him and said.
“As soon as you are far
enough into the scrub to be out
of sight of the Old Geezer,
spread out abreast in a long
line ; just far enough apart so
that you can keep in touch by
shouting to each other. And
keep making loud noises as you
move ahead ; just like you do
in a fox-drive.”
HARKNESS protested, scan-
dalised.
“The General’s orders”
But no one was listening.
They were spreading out as
Lacey had instructed them.
“You can’t do that,” Hark-
ness shouted hoarsely. Then
he directed his appeal particu-
larly to the townsmen, “Don’t
take any notice of Lacey. He’s
got no authority. He’ll get you
into trouble with the General.”
The farmers continued to
spread out, and after hesitating
a few moments, the business-
men began to do the same.
“They seem to know what
they’re doing,” one of them
said to Harkness.
Lacey halted them with an-
other shout.
“I’m going to hurry ahead
to the old diggings. I think
that’s where they’re hiding.
I’ll persuade them to come out
quietly. So don’t load your
rifles. I couldn’t bear the dis-
grace of being shot by a half-
trained V.D.C. man.”
Harkness could not contain
his rage.
“You’ll get into trouble over
this,” he screamed. “I’ll see to
it as soon as I get back.”
But, astonishingly, the men,
who had begun to load their
rifles, put their ammunition
back in their pockets.
“All right now,” said Lacey
with assurance. “I’ll be off to
organise the other units.”
And he ran through the
scrub at a speed that made the
going look easy.
Harkness deliberately loaded
his rifle with hands which shook
with fury and started striding
off into the scrub. But he
hadn’t gone more than a chain
when a young farming fellow
caught up to him and said:
“You come along here near
the edge of the range so that
you won’t have to climb over
any of the peaks.”
Harkness shook off the man’s
grip angrily ; he discerned the
hand of Lacey, still looking
after him.
“I’ll go straight ahead here,”
he asserted defiantly, and he
stared at the difficult summits
through his spectacles.
“Well, mind you keep in line,
and keep in touch. The blokes
will be very wild with you if
the Ities get away through your
fault.”
“Any that I see won’t get
away,” Harkness declared,
lifting his rifle threateningly.
The young fellow looked im-
pressed, and rather startled.
“You’ll find that rifle get-
ting terribly heavy before you
go far,” he said. “Would you
like to let me carry it for you?”
“Don’t be a fool,” Harkness
told him.
He started up the incline full
of determination. The rifle,
far from being a hindrance,
actually carried him along.
Harkness had known nothing
about rifles until this one had
been issued to him. He’d been
too busy making money to
ever take any interest in them.
Consequently when he first took
his military .303 in his hands
he still had all the wonder and
exultation of boyhood and
youth to go through.
A RIFLE can be much more
seductive and dangerous
to a man than the most allur-
ing woman. It nestles into his
hands tantalisingly so that he
can’t put it down. It fits against
his shoulder and against his
cheek with a fascination that
generates reckless emotions
and impulses.
When he shoots with it, it
recoils sensuously against his
body, calling out all his man-
hood to control it. The slam
of the bullet into the far-away
target gives him an awesome
and miraculous feeling of
power. Even the most sober
and self-controlled of men get
an irresistible craving to savor
this power by shooting some-
thing more animate than a
target. Something worthy of a
.303 —a speeding car; a low-
flying aeroplane; a galloping
horse; a man.
To Harkness, as he walked
along in the unaccustomed
solitude of the bush, a place
which seemed unbelievably
remote and primitive to him,
there suddenly came the most
lucid revelation of how he could
obtain his relief from the
rage and grief which had been
torturing him for so many
weeks.
It was quite simple ; every-
thing had been arranged for
him. He would shoot Lacey.
And he couldn’t be punished
for it, because, with Lacey
illegally among the Italians, it
would look exactly like an
accident.
Rising excitement made him
move up the hillside more
quickly; he began to see a
great merit in the single-line
front now that he had made
his dramatic decision, for there
would be no one watching him
when he came into sight of
Lacey. But the main thing was
to be the first to see him.
He could hear shouting on
either side of him, but he didn’t
reply ; not only out of resent-
ment for Lacey’s irregular in-
structions, but because of a
cunning deduction that if he
remained silent no one would
know where he was at any
particular time.
He reached the top of the
first rise in the enthusiasm of
his first rush. For half-a-mile
he had a slight downward in-
cline to traverse, then an abrupt
and rocky hill. He decided
that by the time he reached
the peak he would be in sight
of the old gold-diggings. It
looked to him to be an excel-
lent site from which he could
spy out the country. With the
advantage of firing downwards
on an unsuspecting victim, he
had no doubt that this hilltop
would be the site of the final
decision whether Lacey was to
marry his daughter.
Harkness had just begun the
steep ascent when he noticed
that his breathing was becom-
ing a little difficult. But in his
exhilarated mood he dis-
regarded it, persuading himself
that it was a normal result of
his unaccustomed exercise.
His route was frequently
blocked by huge granite
boulders, some as big as
houses, which he had to walk
around, making him worry
about losing time and distance,
and causing him to hurry where
he should have gone slowly. -
His breathing gave him in-
creasing trouble but he con-
tinued, as though once he had
reached the hilltop and
achieved his object, nothing
else would matter. All his
woes would vanish, and even
his asthma would disappear.
The only concession he made to
normal caution was to undo the
top buttons of his tunic to get
more air to his straining body.
At last he got to the hilltop.
He tried to survey the land-
scape in front of him with the
eagle-like penetration he’d
imagined he would have, but
to his mortification he found
himself shaking and swaying
uncontrollably with exhaus-
tion ; his lungs laboring pain-
fully and noisily for each in-
sufficient breath.
He realised, with acute self-
reproach, that he had brought
on the worst attack of asthma
he had ever had. He flung off
his tunic and the woollen pull-
over which had contributed to
his condition by overheating
him. He sat in the icy cold
wind of the hilltop in his shirt-
sleeves, the perspiration stream-
ing down his face from the
exertion of his breathing, while
he fumbled with stiff and
trembling hands for his little
bottle of isoprenaline-sulphate
tablets which he always carried
with him. Full of the urgency
to restore himself to normal,
he took double his usual dose,
regardless of the possible
effect on his heart.
For an intolerably long time
the dose seemed to have no
effect. Harkness fretted pas-
sionately over the lost time,
and his distress was made all
the worse by the fact that he
could see no signs of the
diggings below him. He rea-
lised that he would have to
walk farther and climb higher
to reach them, and he wasn’t in
the condition to move a step.
Presently he noticed an easing
of his breathing. But at the
same time he discovered that
his heart was pounding so
violently and at so accelerated
a speed that his ears reverber-
ated with each beat. He knew
that he should relax com-
pletely until his heart subsided ;
but now that his breath was
coming more easily, he thought
only of the other men getting
ahead of him.
He got to his feet, picked up
his rifle and his discarded gar-
ments, and hurried forward,


lurching and dishevelled. When
he could walk no farther he
found that his asthma had come
on again, as badly as before,
and his heart was still beating
so violently that he considered
that to take any more of his
tablets would be tantamount to
suicide. He lay down with his
head on his garments, gasping
and sobbing.
But in a few minutes he was
on his feet again. He tried to
run to make up for lost time,
but he was so close to the
limit of his endurance that he
could barely stagger.
Just as he was about to fall
from exhaustion, he saw,
“ Superb! Magnifique! Just what I've been trying to
say in free verse !”
emerging from a patch of scrub
only fifty-yards away, the
Italians in their unmistakable
red uniforms.
Lacey was not with them.
A dreadful rage boiled-up in
Harkness, momentarily reviv-
ing his strength. He raised his
rifle and fired it into the centre
of the
The blow from the insecurely
held stock was sufficient to
topple him off into uncon-
sciousness.
tTTurxT tt i ,
Harkness came-to he
fiim n aS 1 astonis^ e( * t( ?
v• C a^C .
being earned on an improvised
ec er by two Italians.
din n °'k, er ’ arm m a
: an d With bandages show-
w7air-^ bloodstains, was
walkmg on one side of the
stretcher, occasionally giving
him glares of outraged re-
proach. On his other side the
biggest and most dangerous-
looking of them was carrying
his (Harkness’s) rifle.
Harkness was so terrified and
so mortified that for a long
hme he could think of noth-
ing but to pretend to be still
unconscious,
The asthma - spasm had
passed, and though he felt so
weak that any kind of physical
effort was unthinkable, his
mind was gratifyingly alert
and things appeared to him
with an unusual lucidity. He
could think back to the earlier
part of the day with a peculiar
detachment, and see himself
making his murderous resolu-
tions ; and then contrast that
with being the Italians’
prisoner.
His terror began to subside
as he realised that although
he had apparently wounded one
of them, they had not taken
their opportunity to kill him.
Apart from the wounded one,
a very dark, aboriginal type,
probably a Calabrian or from
some other part of the back-
ward and superstitious south of
Italy, the attitude of the others
seemed to be actually solici-
tous. The men carrying the
front end of the stretcher
occasionally turned his head to
see how he’d fared after a steep
descent, and others came and
looked at him sympathetically.
of a J udden> his
bearers stopped, and there was
a great commotion. They
gabs]ed in every intonation. A
distant voice hailed them with
a familiar Australian “Hello,”
and at once ad the Italians
exclaimed, “Lacey.” Harkness
suddenl sat
T ACEY was hurrying to-
-*-y wards them unarmed from
the opposite direction to which
the four parties had been
walking through the hills in the
morning. At the same time
he noticed that the sun had
nearly set.
The Italians had a quick,
dramatic consultation among
themselves, then the one with
the rifle moved to the front and
aimed it at Lacey.
“You surrender! You pris-
oner!” he demanded.
Harkness’s heart beat again
with a painful emphasis, but
Lacey remained calm. He raised
his hands just a little in a sort
of token-surrender to prevent
the man shooting, and said:
“I come to talk to you from
officers. You see . . . no rifle.”
The Italians discussed this
and, seeming to decide that he
was to be trusted, they told
Lacey to approach. The man
with the rifle lowered it. Lacey
came to the stretcher and bent
over Harkness with great con-
cern.
“You seem to be a very sick
man,” he said.
Harkness looked into Lacey’s
face, and suddenly he was
extraordinarily glad he hadn’t
shot him.
“I thought something must
have happened to you,” Lacey
said, “when I couldn’t find the
Ities and you didn’t turn up.
The rest of the blokes reckoned
it was too late and too risky to
come back and look for you ;
but I’d promised Judy I’d look
after you.”
For the first time Harkness
wasn’t flung into a violent rage
when Lacey spoke to him
about his daughter. But he
said nothing. He was begin-
ning to see that he had failed
the other men through his
obstinacy and his weakness.
“I’ll talk to the Ities,” Lacey
said. “I’ll see what I can do
for you.”
'T'HEY argued for a long time
in an odd mixture of Eng-
lish and Italian whi*h was
largely unintelligible to Hark-
ness. He did, however, get the
impression that some kind of
bargaining was going on in
which he was involved.
Then Lacey returned to the
stretcher.
“You’re not out of trouble
yet,” he warned Harkness.
“The Italians say that they
were coming towards our line
to surrender when they ran
into you and you opened fire.”
He paused reproachfully, to
give Harkness time to remem-
ber his advice not to load the
rifles. Then he went on:
“But when I told them
about the cage being here to
take them back to Cowra for
punishment (I felt it was only
fair to tell them about that)
they got very different ideas.
They say they’ll hold you as a
hostage until the P.W.C.C.
agrees to let them go back to
the farms they came from.
They don’t reckon they deserve
any punishment; they say they
just cleared out into the bush
for a few days’ holiday, and
now they’re tired of it, and
ready to go back to work.”
Despite the apparent
humanity of the Italians, the
word “hostage” had a very
chilling effect on Harkness.
“How do you fancy being
lugged around the bush for
weeks until the P.W.C.C. cap-
tures the Italians?” Lacey
asked him.
“I don’t think I could stand
it,” said Harkness. “I feel
awful. My asthma is killing
me, and I’m sure my heart will
give out if I don’t soon get to
bed and rest.”
“I’ll tell the General that,
and Captain Atkins. I’ll tell
them it’ll kill you. That might
make them agree to the Ities’
terms. But it’s up to you. Are
you prepared to help them get
off?”
Harkness averted his face.
“The farmers need them to
get their wheat sown,” he said.
A grin spread over Lacey’s
face, and the watching Italians
broke into smiles and laughter.
“I’ll hurry back to the
officers,” Lacey said, “and tell
them the set-up. But if they
don’t agree to the Italians’
terms, is there any message
you’d like me to take to your
family?”
Harkness pondered care-
fully.
“Well, yes, there is. You can
tell Judy that I won’t with-
hold my consent.”
“You beaut!” Lacey ex-
claimed, squeezing one of
Harkness’s limp arms. “Your
worries are over. I’ll get you
home tonight if I have to
strangle the Captain and the
General.”
He turned eagerly to go, but
the Italians stopped him,
childishly eager to know the
reason for his delight. When
they were told, they crowded
round Harkness, their vivid,
sensitive faces full of spon-
taneous pleasure.
“Lacey sposare you figlia,”
they said, full of the joy and
wonder of that form of
romance of which captivity
had deprived them so long.
They competed with each
other to shake Harkness’s
hand in congratulation.
"OUT not the man whom
Harkness had wounded.
He kept to himself with a
suffering face. He scowled at
Harkness as if he were certain
that the bullet had conveyed
some dark, evil spirit into his
soul, and had left Harkness
free.


moving as it is funny, a sincere and
obviously authentic picture of the
family’s struggle on the land, Steele
Rudd increasingly depended on comic
stooges such as the delectable Uncle of
“Sandy’s Selection,” increasingly
treated Dad as a buffoon, increasingly
(however divertingly) fell into farce.
Nowhere, except in parts of “Sandy’s
Selection,” and, of course, in flashes
throughout his writing, did he recover
the sincerity and deep humanity of “On
Our Selection.” His original auto-
biographical impulse was largely
exhausted, no doubt, ,in his first book
—the common fate of minor novelists
—and he .found it both easy and
tempting to exploit the farcical
elements in his portrait of Dad which
had proved popular and which his
illustrators had emphasised, exagger-
ated and, to a large extent, invented.
Dad’s rages in “On Our Selection”
were all the natural, pardonable and
even likeable exasperation of the settler
against the hostility of the land. If
he beat the horses with the plough-
scraper it was because he had to get
the ploughing done, and the climate
was hot. If he kicked young Joe in
awe-inspiring fury (“My Gawd! You
devil of a feller, how —kick —dare you
—kick —run —kick, kick, kick —away
yesterday, eh? —kick”), it was out of
mingled relief and exasperation because
Joe had cleared out when he was
supposed to be dying of snakebite. His
poverty in “On Our Selection,” when
he borrows a hoe or has to harness
himself to a bramble to do the harrow-
ing, is just poverty. In the later books
the rage becomes mere senseless bad-
temper, exploited for its comic possi-
bilities; and the poverty changes into
meanness.
It could, I suppose, be argued that
this is a logical development of
character; but I doubt it. There is no
development shown; there is just a
sudden jump, a drop, from the fiery
little battler of “On Our Selection” to
the circus-lion of the illustrators.
“Our New Selection,” written next
after “On Our Selection,” is a plodding,
conscientious effort to provide a sequel.
The writing is stilted and the only
touches of animation are in its
attempts to make a buffoon of Dad—
he is bucked off his horse, he is knocked
down by a cow, he is hung up a gum-
tree (really someone should make a
list of all the accidents this unfortunate
puppet suffers!); and already he has
become so mean that he won’t give a
feed to a swaggie—“He put them all
off with an eloquent wave of the hand.
Travellers were not fond of Dad.”
In “Sandy’s Selection,” because
essentially it dealt with struggle on the
land again and the elemental humanities
of courtship, marriage and childbirth,
Steele Rudd recaptured much of the
spirit of “On Our Selection.” It is a
delightful book. But the Dad in it is
not the Dad of the first book. The
inset chapters of his incursion into
politics are a farcical display of his
fury and an (amusing) attempt to make
him even more of a public institution
than he has already become. The
excellent scenes when poor Sandy tries
to borrow a horse or a hundred pounds
are a farce of rage and miserliness.
And by the time Steele Rudd has got
to “Back at Our Selection,” first
published in book-form in 1906, eleven
years after the first “On Our Selec-
tion” story appeared in “The Bulletin,”
Dad is pure roaring buffoon—getting
drunk with the temperance-man,
beaten-up in the night by Andy Daley,
tipped out of the dray, knocked down
by a dead horse, nearly hanged on
the cord of a kite and wonderfully but
quite incredibly beaten-up by Dave’s
outraged mother-in-law. There are
some nice touches of character when
Sarah falls out with Dave’s bride and
when Norah comes home wrapped in
all the glamor of Brisbane; the whole
book is full of fun; but the Dad of
“On Our Selection” is by now hardly
more than the Punch of a Punch-and-
Judy show.
But if the illustrators may thus be
held to have “destroyed” Dad, I think
they might also very largely be credited
with having created him; and indeed
the whole Steele Rudd portrait-gallery:
for it is amazing how slightly Steele
Rudd himself sketches-in his people.
I doubt if Dad, except as a straw-
man, a buffoon, really exists as a
character. The portrait in “On Our
Selection” Steele Rudd himself,
according to W. E. Fitz Henry, said
that Dad was a composite, drawn from
three actual people—is too elusive for
us really to see what he was made of;
even to be quite sure whether he was
fat or thin; and thereafter he is a
different person, the illustrators’.
Mother the immortal Mother,
plump, stalwart, arms akimbo, the
incarnation of the staunch outback
housewife—is created almost wholly for
us by the illustrators. I don’t think
she is ever described in Steele Rudd’s
text; except once in “Our New Selec-
tion” as “looking older.” Her conver-
sation, so far as it is recorded, is prac-
tically restricted to “Oh my gracious!”
and “Oh! What is it?”; and, though
there is some indication of the basis
of her character, when she encourages
Dad in his troubles or worries about
the accidents that incessantly befall
her young, she is hardly drawn at all as
an individual.
There are a few little scenes where
Sarah momentarily displays some
individuality, and we know, at least,
that she has a fat ankle. As well as
what may be revealed in the farce of
the new house in “Back at Our Selec-
tion,” “On Our Selection” gives us
two memorable glimpses of Dave (how
slight a foundation on which to build
a national institution!), locked in
impenetrable silence when they thought
he had been bitten by a snake, and
dancing alone in the paddock when he
was practising for the ball. Sandy
comes vaguely to life in his gawky
tenderness for Kate and his glorious
inability to ask Dad for the hundred-
pounds; but I don’t think one of them
is firmly painted “in the round” except
for the irrepressible Joe, who, in his
innocent sadism, is a thoroughly
convincing small boy and whom I have
always thought Steele Rudd may have
drawn from his own youth:—
Joe was a naturalist. He spent a
lot of time that Dad considered
should have been employed cutting
burr or digging potatoes, in ear-
marking bears and bandicoots, and
catching goannas and letting them
go without their tails, or coupled in
pairs with pieces of greenhide. The
paddock was full of goannas in
harness and slit-eared bears. They
belonged to Joe.
If Joe is Steele Rudd’s own, all the
others are surely—to a considerable
extent —the creations of his illustrators.
And what a team of illustrators Steele
ON THE TRACK
Beginning in half darkness,
The horses up for hours with the men,
The quick slush of riding hoofs comes
easily
Sounding around the muddy track,
distantly
Fading into nearness and out of it again.
The high hum of singing from the
gangling grooms
Beats a morning blues harmony,
modified for years
By the endless running hoofs.
In the green morning—with the light
Mist of dawn rolling with the horse’s
breath
And the drifting ground-smoke of fires
Built for water —and hand-warming —
Moving under the young sun,
The horse with his quick slush comes
sounding
Easily off the track, snorting at the
groom’s
Caressing, cool hand.
Easy, easy, baby boy —
He loves the dumb horse with the
dumbness
Of his cool hands upon him, rubbing
down
The hard-veined animal powered by slim,
Brainy legs, poised delicately under the
heaving body.
Like mobiles of bones and tendon, wired
beautifully,
Just this side of stillness and of death.
N.S.W.
PAL CLEARY.


Rudd had! Reviewing “The Senti-
mental Bloke” a while ago I remarked
on how much I thought Dennis owed
to Hal Gye; and whereas Dennis had
only one artist to help fix his people
in the public eye. the whole assembled
talent of the age played upon and
magnified Steele Rudd’s little stories
like so many magic lanterns: Fischer,
Fullward, Lambert, Fred Leist,
Mahony, Vincent, Ambrose Dyson,
Norman Lindsay, Lionel Lindsay, Ruby
Lindsay, Percy Lindsay . . . It is no
wonder that Dad came out of it
somewhat larger than life; and that
the minor characters, sketchy or
amorphous, became figures as firmly
established in the public mind as. if
they had been sculpted. Virtually, they
had been.
But if the illustrators thus helped
very considerably to establish the
characters—and the bushland setting,
too —of course Steele Rudd provided
the basis for them to illustrate. His
books would have lived without
illustration; only, I think, not nearly
so vividly. If his people, before Dad
became a clown, were not strongly
individualised they were recognisable
and memorable as types: the struggling
selector, the indomitable Mother, the
awkward girls and the inarticulate
youths. He set down most memorably
the battle with the bare, hard earth;
his style, bare and laconic, is
admirably suited to his purposes;
under its hard surface his writing is
full of the wild poetry of life in the
bush; and his humor is irresistible.
The things he finds funny may often
be raw and cruel by more civilised
standards—a fact of which Steele Rudd
himself must have been dimly aware
in the midst of his boyish innocence,
for every time he bangs a horse with
the plough-scraper or knocks a
kangaroo’s eye out with a stirrup-iron
it is noticeable that, to salve his
conscience, he changes the animal into
a “brute”: and “brutes,” of course,
deserve all they get. But essentially it
is healthy humor. It is a catharsis; an
acceptance; a transmutation of; the
inescapable toughness of bush life into
the pure metal of laughter.
That is, in fact, one of his strongest
claims to enduring life: nothing lasts
better in literature than the viewpoint
which sees life as comedy and a
nostalgic poetry. And, not greatly like
Fielding nor even so broadly as Tom
Collins, but always firmly on his minor
scale, that is certainly the way Steele
Rudd saw life on the selection.
I first read “Sandy’s Selection”—
which serves almost as well as “On
Our Selection” to display his qualities
—years ago in New Zealand, at the
age of ten or thereabouts; and the life
it depicts must be as remote and as
mysteriously enchanting to most Aus-
tralians now as it was to us then across
the water. Here was a country where
there were bears! And Uncles! And
drought and bushfire! And, supremely
exotic and fascinating when Sandy
hunted them in the night, chasing them
away from his very doorstep in that
ramshackle hut so many miles from
anywhere, there were those unheard-of
creatures the wallabies: —-
A rush — a scampering through
bushes, and cracking of dead
sticks! And Sandy would begin a
new song. Blit one night when he
yelled there was no response. Sandy
listened. Not a wallaby was on the
move, but he could hear the corn-
leaveS' rasping and tearing violently.
He listened again, and looked desper-
ately at Kate. Kate turned pale.
Sandy rushed out and ran to the
gate. It was wide open. The waning
moon threw a pallid light over the
place. Sandy stood. A dark mass
of wallabies, like ten thousand head
of sheep being counted through a
hurdle, were fighting for admission.
They couldn't get in. The corn-
paddock was full.
I find its great scenes, comic or poetic,
pathetic, human or farcical (the ’roo
they dressed-up in Kate’s bloomers; the
lunatic who dropped Uncle down the
well; the town-girls who tried to harness
the horse by leaning out the window;
Sandy asking Dad for the loan; the
time the triplets got wind) engraved
upon my memory like a personal
experience; and they are, in their
modest way, a kind of personal experi-
ence of the nation’s. Maybe child-
hood is the best time to take Steele
Rudd’s books in; but, like all the best
children’s books, they stay both vital
and entertaining at whatever age you
read them.
Douglas Stewart.
Reviewed Briefly
A Book of Archaeology: by various
writers, edited by Lady Wheeler
(Cassell). A lot of the material is far
from new, but as a popular account of
such subjects as Tut-ankh-amen’s tomb,
the treasure-ship of Sutton Hoo, the
cave-drawings of Lascaux, the Dead
Sea scrolls, etc., it should interest the
general reader.
** * *
Safety of Our Future: World Federa-
tion (Robertson and Mullens), by Basil
Buller-Murphy, of Melbourne, is not
so much a treatise on his subject as a
collection of the speeches, broadcasts,
essays and reviews and other papers
which the barrister-founder of the new
world-movement has thrown off in the
course of his fervent advocacy of a
world-State of all the nations, armed
and ready to fall on any small tribe
which violates its dictates by resorting
to blows in some quarrel with a
neighbor. It is illustrated with photos
of the author conversing with the great
ones of every country, including
Britain, U.S., India and China. His
analysis of the present anarchical
situation and of the uselessness of the
various cultural organisations like
Unesco are devastatingly difficult to
refute. In fact, his world-federation
may be the only answer to the appalling
problem: how to bring it about is
another matter.
* * * *
The Enemy in the Heart: T. H.
Jones (Rupert Hart-Davis). Poems of
Wales, love and autobiography,
echoing Hopkins and Dylan Thomas:
Walking with pride of race and
singing craft
I magnify mountains, and suck in
the air
Wales wears with memoried grace ;
In the green cwms I am again at
home.
Something of the Welsh landscape
comes through them; but, with some
ballads echoing Yeats, they do not
display much more than the moods
and fashions of the day—and the
desire to write.
We Farmed a Desert: E. B. Herivel
(Faber). Though the region is bounded
by wastelands, the Huasco Valley in
Chile where Mrs. Herivel helped her
husband grow grapes and apricots is
hardly what Australians would call a
desert. The Huasco River runs
through it and the shelving plains are
irrigated from the river. But, if it is
not likely to be much practical use
back of Bourke, it makes a pleasant,
entertaining story of life in Chile, full
of fruit, flowers, natives, housekeeping,
gardening and wine-making.
* * * *
Between Wheels and Stars: Phoebe
Hesketh (Heinemann)i “Spring in the
City” will demonstrate as well as any
other the qualities of these short
poems:—
Green-footed on a pavement here
she stands
Behind a barrow-load of flowers:]
the dust
Of old beginnings breathed on once
again
Becomes a bunch of violets in her
hands.
The technique is mechanical but
adequate; the poems slightly hackneyed
and sentimental, but with a minor
charm.


Mushrooms
&
gs - -sfe
§rf*
>:---
VV
‘ When the brief spring rains sweep down . . /
in the desert
&
<w
No. 9 of a series—The story of BP A USTRALIA LIMITED
When the brief spring rains sweep down on arid Kuwait,
mushrooms grow in the desert sand.
No celery grows there, though. Nor do the scraggy hens
lay well. And it’s a waste of time thinking about planting
apple trees.
Pinned on the Persian Gulf coast between Iraq and
Saudi Arabia, Kuwait is mostly 6,000 square miles of
desert. Why, then, during the past 12 months, should
BP AUSTRALIA LIMITED, formerly The Common-
wealth Oil Refineries Ltd, have shipped to this pocket-
sized shaikhdom 600 cases of fresh celery, 1,176,000 eggs
and 3,000 cases of fresh apples?
The answer is oil.
Since 1946, Kuwait Oil Company Limited, an associate
of The British Petroleum Company Ltd, has developed
Kuwait until today it is the largest single oil-producing
area in the world. From here Australia obtains 20%
of her crude oil requirements.
To speed the expansion of Kuwait, BP AUSTRALIA
LIMITED has shipped not only celery, eggs and apples
but also butter, meat, fruit juices, flour, fresh vegetables,
*. tinned baby-foods, railway sleepers and large-diameter
steel pipes, the length of which has amounted to some
260 miles in the last 12 months.
It is appropriate that Australia should be helping supply
Kuwait.
It was in Australia, at Queensland’s Mount Morgan,
where William Knox D’Arcy won the fortune which
financed his successful search for oil in Persia and,
ultimately, led to the development of the Kuwait field.
Today’s Australian supply-line to Kuwait is a tangible
link with the historic fact that . . *
,f%;i J 5
I
C/C597
BP
began here!
BP AUSTRALIA LIMITED
formerly THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD
