

The Bulletin
A Visiting Vemts —page 32
Wednesday, October 29, 1958
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
kogisterod in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
” Personally, I find the mountains rather corny; picture - postcard stuff!"


BOOKS BOUGHT
We visit you in tlie City and Suburbs
Immediate Cash Payment
Valuations made for Probate
BW 7874
(After Hours JY 1131)
BERKELOUW
114 King Street, (Between Pitt and
Castlereagh Streets), Sydney.
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find It for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderata
fee only if successfuL
The Red Page
J. S. MACDONALD ON ART
James S. MacDonald’s Australian
Painting Desiderata (Lothian) is not
likely to get a favorable reception from
reviewers, or if it does it will be a proof
of the most heroic detachment on their
part; for most newspapers will of neces-
sity hand it over to their “art-writers”
or “art-reporters” for comment, and
these unlucky souls in MacDonald’s
mythology are just about equivalent to
the scum of the earth. “Barber’s cats”
is one of his more polite, if mystifying,
terms for them; “imaginative apes” is
far from the worst.
Nor is it likely to be welcomed by
“modernist” artists and their sup-
porters, who are variously described as
“putrid,” “gangrened,” “corrupt,”
“human blowflies,” “necrophagi,” “pelf
and power - hungry renegades,”
“weeds,” “germs” and “neuters.” Nor,
finally, can it be accepted as a whole—
except perhaps by the most fanatical of
the Old Guard —even by readers who
share some of MacDonald’s reserva-
tions (if not his rage) about modernism.
It is incomplete as a survey of Aus-
tralian art; too many minor artists are
dragged in as if of equal importance
with the major painters; it is not criti-
cal enough in its estimate of major
painters—there is no discrimination,
for instance, between the early and
the later Streeton; and, above all, it is
too violent: —
In a falsifying light, keyed to an
opportune dimness by advancing or
retreating clouds of war, to the herd
of grunting and gullible parvenus
suddenly enriched by a crazy world,
dealers (journalists and scholars
abetted), fobbed off their worthless
“Contemporary” wares. Forthwith
those third-rate, poisonous members
of society, the snobs who scorn and
reject the unfashionable but guzzle
and bolt the modish, applauded
loudly the taste of the richissimes
and where they could not afford
originals bought reproductions of
pitiful paintings by subnormals,
lunatics, psychopaths, charlatans or
plain rogues . „ .
Superb though it is in its own way,
such invective eventually defeats its
own purposes: instead of being tempted
into agreeing with MacDonald about
modernism, in the end one finds oneself
sitting back and merely admiring the
way he could swear. Besides, it really
cannot be proved that all buyers of
modern art “grunted.”
Yet for all that, “Australian Painting
Desiderata” is a useful, a likeable, a
memorable and in many ways a sound
book of what —peace to MacDonald!
—one can only call “art-writing.”
Extravagant as it may be, it will make
its mark. If too many of its shafts fly
wild, not a few hit home where (as they
were meant to) they hurt. The reader
who does not merely fly into a rage
with it and hurl it out the window will
find himself forced into a reassessment
of his values: he must regard some
modem works with increased suspicion;
he must regard many traditional works
with increased respect.
MacDonald was not merely too forc-
ible a writer lightly to brush aside: he
was also too knowledgeable. After all,
he was not director of the N. S. Wales
National Gallery from 1928 to 1936
for nothing; nor director of the Vic-
torian Gallery from 1937 to 1942 with-
out high qualifications. As a child he
had his first lesson in painting from
Tom Roberts; he studied art in Paris at
Julian’s, Colarossi’s and the Academy
Carmen under Jean Paul Laurens,
Benjamin Constant, Jacques Blanch
and Whistler. He taught art for five
years in New York and, after his
return to Australia, was himself art-
critic (if not “art-reporter”!) for the
Melbourne “Herald.” And if all this
means —as it could; and in part does —
that he was old-fashioned, at least we
can read him with respect on the older
fashions in art . . . none of which can
possibly have been invalidated, though
they may have been temporarily
replaced, by the newer fashions.
It is, indeed, chiefly for its reaffirma-
tion of the older Australian school that
the book is to be valued.
There is something of value in Mac-
Donald’s attack on modernism —who
can deny that we have had the decadent
and the incompetent?—but he deals
here only in wild and vituperative
generalisations, and generalisations are
always unjust to individuals: we have
also had, amongst the modems, good
painters. In fact, this reviewer (not to
say “art-writer”) dislikes the term
“modernism” altogether. There are
dozens of different styles of painting
practised today; you cannot possibly
condemn them all under the one head-
ing “modernism”: you can only, now
as in the past, try .to distinguish between
the skilful and the incompetent, the
sensitive and the dull, the original
vision and the copyist.
But when he is dealing with named,
individual painters of the older Aus-
tralian school MacDonald is on firm
ground and can oftch'be very impres-
sive.
He is most pleasing to this reviewer
when he brings back to notice some
forgotten painter—such as Llewellyn
Jones, for example—who is too minor
a figure for the modernist critics even
to remember to wipe-out; and yet an
artist who painted so soundly and,
within his gamut, so sensitively and
warmly, that he is certain to take his
small place again when the next genera-
tion rediscovers the permanent figures
among the Gruner-Streeton-Heysen
group. Llewellyn Jones is no more
than a name here amongst a list of
painters who worked with Roberts and
Conder at Eaglemont—the others were
Walter Withers, David Davies, E. P.
Fox, Aby Alston and Louis Abrahams
—and maybe he will never amount to
much more than a name in a list; yet,
for their fidelity, somebody in Aus-
tralia will always hang his pictures.
But it is more important, no doubt,
that besides mentioning these minor
figures (and some so minor that it is
a very lucky chance that has brought
them up again) MacDonald also redis-
covers the major Australian painters of
his period: in particular and in detail,
Roberts, Streeton, Gruner, Meldrum,
Heysen and Longstaff, with briefer
opinions on McCubbin, Lambert, Pen-
leigh Boyd, Lionel Lindsay, Harold
Herbert and others.
Whether in attack or in praise, Mac-
were always rather
like a sledge-hammer. It is a little
startling in this modest country to
be told, for instance, that Hey sen’s
drawings of landscape have “more
authority” than comparable drawings
of “all the English school of whatever
period: Gainsborough, Cozens, Girtin,
Turner, Cotman, Cox and any others”;
even more alarming to be informed
that the drawings, as drawings, were
carried further than those of Rubens,
Hals, Velasquez, Vermeer and Chardin;
but it is not a point which this reviewer
would care to argue with so knowledge-
able and formidable a connoisseur.
And even if you can’t quite believe all
that, or think the comparisons inappro-
priate, at least MacDonald leaves you
convinced that Heysen’s drawings (as
they are) are excellent. And that, like
the praise of Gruner and Streeton and
the rest, was worth saying.
Certain allowances should be made
for the book. It was put together partly
from a manuscript on which Mac-
Donald was working up to the time of
his death, partly from stray articles he
(Continued on page 58)


7*
m
a
a
IEUi
(i
‘r\ a, . ’
Sli
r '■
'&
V
r*<y
ADELAIDE
MELBOURNE
H
T
%
P
v v
Y
- *
S'--
D
Y
D
G
E
baNI
E
LO
N
G
Ai
T-A
JA.
N . o
I. ;
{X-V
g-;
V;-.
f<\
a /VK'/.-.
V»
cVr-
- rA-JJ.tc. • *
v Jtwt
vis >
Ar*'
:&
All Over Australia...
North, South, East, West, throughout this fair land of ours, Elders have developed, giving to the “Map-
on-the-Land” the facilities of the Elder Organisation. The name Elders was known to our pioneer families
as far back as 1839, and brought to them the essentials of a growing nation. To-day the activities of 180
Elder branches in Australia cover Wool, Land and Livestock, Merchandise, Insurance, Skins and Hides,
Rural Banking, Shipping, Travel and Chartering.
"COMPLETE SERVICE TO THE " M AN-ON-TH E-LAND"
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LIMITED
ADELAIDE, PERTH, ALBANY, MELBOURNE, GEELONG, SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE, BRISBANE, LONDON
with which are amalgamated
THE COMMONWEALTH WOOL & PRODUCE CO. LTD., SYDNEY
NENCO LIMITED, NEWCASTLE
MOREHEADS LIMITED. BRISBANE


The Bulletin
Wednesday, October 29, 1958
Vol . 79—No. 4107
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane .
South Australia : 304 North Terrace,
A delaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE FINAL TWIST
TN his presidential address to the
A 22nd Commonwealth conference of
the Australian Labor Party last year
Mr. F. E. Chamberlain spoke words
which he must now sorely regret.
He, for instance, devoted quite a
little time to the special enemies of
Dr. Evatt —those people whom the
Doctor had used as red-herrings when
the effects of his performance before
the Petrov commission threatened to
wreck his political career for good
and all.
Dr. Evatt himself in his address to
the conference thanked Providence
that it had used him as a chosen instru-
ment to defeat the machinations of
these wicked people and “the danger
of subversion”; that the “insidious
attempt to overthrow the Movement
of Labor from within” had failed —of
course through his own foresight. This
placed him in the position to “say how
thankful we ought to be that the most
dreadful fate” —i.e., “the permeation
and penetration” of Labor through
persons whose allegiance is not to
Labor —“was averted.” He seemed
to suffer from an ecstasy of gratitude
to the few people who “stood firm in
the crisis and averted that tragedy,”
and he was “proud to be numbered
among them.”
The conference and all subsequent
occasions on which the Labor leaders
have been able to raise their voices
have been utilised to damn the
“treacherous conspirators .... instru-
ments of Santamaria” with bell, book
and candle in the hardest words that
even the harsh language of Labor
politics can provide.
Mr. Chamberlain and his lieutenants
must now regret that they have been
so positive and left so much on record
alleging the diabolical dishonesty of
purpose and the utter unworthiness of
everybody connected with the so-called
Democratic Labor Party and its sup-
posed founders and promoters.
Mr. Chamberlain set the keynote
when he told the 1957 conference: “Do
not underrate this enemy The
evidence is clear that they have not
given up the struggle to control the
policies of this party Do not be
deceived into thinking their final objec-
tive is the establishment of a rival
Labor party. It is not. It is merely the
means to an end.... They plan to
create a political situation in which it
will appear impossible for this party
[A.L.P.] to again govern in the
national Parliament unless there is a
reconciliation. They are not only an
organisation without the party: they
are an organ within.” And he outlined
with a fateful accuracy the course the
“enemy” would pursue.
He said the agents within would say
that its leadership was solely respons-
ible for Labor’s inability to become
the Government, while at the same
time “undertaking a steady campaign
for a reconciliation between the Labor
party and the breakaway groups on
the grounds that the alternative is the
permanent establishment of an anti-
Labor Government, with ever-increas-
ing burdens upon the working people.”
A/TR. CHAMBERLAIN’S speech on
that occasion proves that he is
wasted as a president of the A.L.P. He
would make a fortune as a soothsayer
or professional prophet if he were to
put up his shingle and exhibit as a
reference for his skill the final sentence
of his forecast of the trend of D.L.P.
tactics and the results thereof: —
There will be a tendency on the part
of some who are primarily concerned
with political advancement, and who
will chafe at the prospects of remaining
in opposition, to embrace such pro-
posals. . . . [i.e., for reconciliation].
At the most awkward possible
moment his words have been proved
true, to the confusion of the party. It
is difficult to undersand how, with his
clarity of vision, he did not foresee that
his last sentence must inevitably refer
to the one man in the A.L.P. whose
record throughout his career has been
so full of instances in which he has
provoked situations that have attracted
the loyalty of a staunch band of fol-
lowers and then thrown overboard his
principles and his disciples with ruthless
opportunism.
The Labor party, so recently trium-
phant with its policy of bribes and
ardently admired even by a section of
the daily press, has been placed in a
shocking position by Dr. Evatt’s offer
to retire from leadership after the
election in return for the preferences of
a splinter section expelled through his
own personal efforts because he pro-
fessed to believe that Labor would
suffer a “dreadful fate,” a “disaster,” if
it were allowed to continue to have
even the minutest influence within the
A.L.P.
JN effect, if the offer meant anything
A it meant that he would also abrogate
the leadership of the campaign and
hand the policy-making of the Labor
Government, if it took over, in advance,
to Senator Cole and the D.L.P. It
had been made clear all along by the
D.L.P. that its distrust of Dr. Evatt went
also for some of his principal lieu-
tenants, Mr. Ward in particular, and
that its implacable dislike of Evattism
was concerned primarily with the
Leftist nature of the Hobart-conference
decisions, which form the basis of the
A.L.P.’s Federal policy; also, that there
could be no agreement save through
the ditching of the Hobart decisions.
Both Mr. Chamberlain and Dr. Evatt
fully accepted this. The former, in his
address to the conference which formed
the policy for the current election, said
that “the beacon lit at Hobart” must
not be allowed to go out and that the
target at the polls this month “must
not be Parliamentary seats at any price,
but Parliamentary seats to be occupied
by members who would go fearlessly
into the electorates” and expound the
“doctrine of democratic Socialism” as
set out by the Hobart meeting.
Therefore Dr. Evatt’s offer, apart
from sending his party to the polls
virtually headless, with nobody to
whom a mandate could be committed,
with nobody who could be bound by
pledges which he utters, was obvi-
ously either making a fraudulent ges-
ture or offering to compromise on the
basic principles of Labor policy in
return for office for the party —which,
of course, would still remain free if it
won the election to make him
Governor-General or Chief Justice of
the High Court for its own convenience.
These prospects seem, at close view,
even more likely to be catastrophic
than that of having him for Prime
Minister.
It is, of course, unthinkable that the
Labor machine, if it had known in
advance, would have consented to Dr.
Evatt’s leading the campaign to
surrender his leadership in the hour of
victory. If he had made this offer to
caucus it would have doomed him. It
is equally unthinkable that the electors,
outside the sodden mass that do as
their leaders tell them, will support a
party which a month before the most
vital poll for years does not know who
will be its Prime Minister if it wins or
its leader if it loses.
That is the position, lose or win. For
surely even Labor would not now
stomach the Doctor as its post-election
leader after he has betrayed his friends
to those whom he himself earlier
betrayed.


HE FLIES THROUGH THE AIR WITH THE GREATEST OF EASE!


PLAIN ENGLISH
Monty's Bombshell
What Field-Marshal Montgomery had
to say about world policy last week is
in line with what The Bulletin has been
saying for years, and was uttered at a
moment when the speaker had plenty of
example to back his opinions.
He said, rightly, that Britain had' to
take the first blame for not winning the
peace because the U.K. Labor Govern-
ment had concentrated on establishing
the Welfare Socialist State in Britain,
leaving all the rest to the U.S.A. —which,
of course, seized the opportunity to join
with Russia in pushing the European
Powers out of Asia.
His picture of the failure of Western
policy was crystallised in the insistence
that the only good defence against Com-
munism was a global defence, since the
ambition of Communism was global—
world-revolution. His ability to see this
is rare among world leaders —only one
prophet among all the Ministers of the
British-speaking countries has consistently
insisted on it —Paul Hasluck in Canberra.
The “greatest disaster of the post-war
years” has been that pictured by Mont-
gomery—the steady refusal of the United
States to establish a common world policy
with European Allies. Washington has
always been ready to agree to common
policy and military organisation in
Europe —so long as it is led by United
States commanders and politicians, how-
ever bad, and is regarded as a bulwark
outpost of U.S. defence.
In Asia it has taken the opposite line
and has worked to destroy the influence
of the British, French and Dutch in that
continent, thus leaving unorganised new
“nations” without resources or an anchor,
and drifting towards the Communist
rocks. United States propaganda over
the last few years has plainly followed
the line that the Pacific Ocean is an
extension of the 49 States and that any
nations or colonies in it should be
detached from European allegiances and
bound with the Stars and Stripes. The
greatest possible efforts ’ were made
during the occupation of Japan to pre-
vertt the United Kingdom being anything
save a subject for laughter in the Far
East, or at least nothing more in Asiatic
eyes than a vassal of the U.S.A.
Field-Marshal Montgomery said:
It must now be clear to all except the
very stupid that if the United States had
not sabotaged the Suez operations and had
joined the Baghdad Pact earlier, the situa-
tion in the Middle East would be very
different today. The United States was
always two years behind in her understand-
ing of Europe.
He pointed out that it was two years
after World War II began that the U.S.
joined in and two years before it
realised the full implications of the Suez
situation and began to support the
Baghdad Pact.
In fact, U.S. policy was much more
than two years behind in relation to
Communist China and is only now begin-
ning to face the inevitable and, having
lost face, trying to extract itself from
an untenable position in respect of Chiang
Kai-shek in Formosa. The fruits of the
desertion of the Western Allies at Suez
are now ripe with the consolidation of
Nasser’s strength and the entry of Russia
into Africa, where Moscow is about to
acquire a vested interest and a strategic
position on the Nile through an invest-
ment in the Aswan Dam project. This
move will affect the future of global
defence and the immediate economic and
political position of the whole of North
Africa.
It is quite clear, Field-Marshal Mont-
gomery declares, that Russia is embark-
ing on a world-wide campaign to destroy
the economic foundations of the West.
He adds that it is high time the Nato
Council began to “regard the struggle
against international Communism, led by
Russia, as a world-wide struggle and not
one which could be confined to Nato
countries.”
Not one, either, in which the issue is
purely the world rivalry of the United
States and the U.S.S.R. for control of
the earth ; but a struggle for the security
of all civilised peoples against a blighting
and regimented totalitarianism.
Evatt Galore!
[From Canberra]
If ever a man was a pastmaster at
letting-off political double-bungers it is
Dr. Evatt.
The Petrov business, the Molotov
letter, the “infiltration” of the Movement,
and now —the offer to resign from the
leadership.
If pressmen covering the Doc.’s tour
were surprised—if radio-listeners were
surprised—if newspaper readers were
surprised—his own supporters were
stunned.
They couldn't have been more stunned
if the Doc. had hit them with a block-
buster, such as he did when he wielded
the Molotov letter in Parliament.
Leaving aside the question of whether
or not the Doc. was sincere, where has
it got him?
Firstly, it got a horse-laugh from
Prime Minister Menzies, bewilderment
from the general public, and supreme dis-
comfiture from his own supporters.
The D.L.P., which Dr. Evatt aimed at
embarrassing, seems, however, to have
got out of it all rather neatly by replying
that Evatt’s leadership is not the only
stumbling-block to any pact with the
A.L.P.
It went much deeper than that, said
D.L.P. Leader George Cole.
Evatt’s deputy, Arthur Calwell, hailed
it as a stroke of genius, possibly because
he could see himself as leader of the
A.L.P. and (perhaps) the Government
after the elections.
It is as yet too early to see whether
the Doc.’s undertaking will, apart from
affecting D.L.P. preferences, win Labor
any outright votes they would not have
received otherwise.
A better gauge of this will be possible
after Prime Minister Menzies opens the
Government's campaign next Wednesday
night.
It is clear, however, that the Federal
Executive of the A.L.P. wasn’t impressed
by Evatt’s offer, because they fear it
ties the Labor party too closely to the
D.L.P.
As Federal A.L.P. president “Joe”
Chamberlain said in Perth: “The ques-
tion of Dr. Evatt’s resignation [from
leadership] is a personal matter. But
we are not going to sell our policy to
the D.L.P. [for votes].”
Spotlight on S.-p.
[From- “Collins Street”!
Taken singly, the evidence of the per-
sonalities who have appeared before the
royal commission in Melbourne on off-
the-course betting has been what most
people with any knowledge of the extent
of starting-price betting must have
guessed ; but for the other half of the
population some of the facts and allega-
tions were surprising, and, collectively,
really sensational.
The doings opened with the shattering
allegation by Michael Healey, the police-
inspector who is chief of the gaming
squad, that 30 p.c. of the police charged
with administering the gaming laws were
corrupt —that is, took money from s.-p.
bookies; he did not include country
cops who simply gave the s.-p. man and'
the punters a “go” by looking the other
way.
Healey is a true-blue incorruptible.
Within hours, the Police Association had
met, sent a representative to the inquiry,
sought leave to be represented, and the
Government had weakly agreed to pay
for the representation. And almost a,t
once it was announced that Healey was
being transferred to a country post. The
dailies described this editorially as, in
effect, Highly Peculiar ; and so it is.
The following evidence was of
standover-men demanding £3O to £SO a
week from s.-p. bookmakers and of this
resulting in at least one murder, one
bombing and many bashings ; of cor-
ruption in the P.M.G.’s Department (in
relation to the installation of many tele-
phones for the s.-p. man while the
ordinary citizen waited for one); and
of almost every hotel in the State, and
many wine-saloons and most billiard-
saloons and clubs, having an illegal
bookmaker.
The first witness during my visit was
George Cullingford, a large, jovial fellow,
now a loss-adjuster who had been a
London policeman until he retired in
1952, who obviously approved the British
system of giving legal bookmakers free-
dom to make a book on or off the course
and disapproved the corruption that
street-bookmakers brought in their train.
(He was, I thought,, a true representative
of that happy London breed.)
Then came Frank Holland, the
detective-sergeant and another incorrup-
tible who is president of the Police
Association and a leader of the
consorting-squad of police, with the
information that earlier estimates were
wrong; four men had been shot dead
in standover rows on s.-p. betting; two
had been Tommy-gunned, and another


had been bashed with a car-starting
handle and his assailant later murdered.
So it was not surprising when Holland,
in his forthright way, plumped for legal
off-the-course betting which would stamp-
out the standover-men.
Earlier the Rev. lohn W. Westerman,
the representative of the Victorian
Protestant Churches, had announced they
would favor as a last resort a legal system
of telephone betting; no doubt the
churches’ leaders had been shocked by
the evidence of standover-merchants,
murders and corruption of the police.
In the middle of this path-clearing
through the thick s.-p. jungle, Mr. Porter,
the Police Commissioner, arrived back
by sea from a visit abroad and announced
the Victorian Police Force was the equal
of any in the world.
Without a tremor, the royal commis-
sion continued to listen to more evidence
of corruption and police complaints that
the gaming squad of 21 men could make
hardly a dent on back-lane betting in the
industrial suburbs. We have not got yet
to the explanation of why the local police
can’t help more than they do.
Defamation and History
Mr. Cahill’s adoption of the half-baked
measures taken in some other States to
make it possible for relatives of the dead
to sue for defamation of their forebears
should certainly achieve an objective for
which a lot of Labor politicians must
pray nightly.
Any measure which prevents a
historian from doing credit in the future
to Mr. Cahill and his shabby Ministry
should be welcome in Macquarie Street,
and he seems to have needed only the
most flimsy excuse to rush info the pro-
duction of a bill—he has “received
several letters” from people who are
tender about aspersions on the character
of their forebears.
The writing of history may have to
cease in Australia if this kind of measure
operates, because there seems to be no
way in which any limitation can be
placed on historical writing to protect
the writer. Certainly the limit of opera-
tion to any period would be grossly
inequitable, since the essence of libel is
damage, and it may be just as easy to
prove damage from a statement that
one’s ancestor was an illegitimate son
of a Norman baron as from one that
the dear departed was sent to Australia
in 1835 for stealing an umbrella.
In any circumstances the assailed
author will have difficulty in defending
himself, because normally he works from
documents often not admissible in law
and just as often difficult to produce and
authenticate, since they may be on the
other side of the world, with nobody
on the spot to swear to copies as authentic
and accurate.
At any rate, there must be some con-
solation for serious historians who are
careful about the documentation of their
history, and are not only careful that it
exists but that it is responsible, in the
fact that the people who will seem to
be most exposed to the new law will be
among Mr. Cahill’s dearest friends.
How, for instance, will Dr. Evatt get
along if the descendants of the members
of the N.SfW. Corps issue writs in
respect of his comments in Rum
Rebellion?
Mr. Cahill should take a cautious look
to see where the lightning is likely to
strike before he goes too far with his
strange measure.
The A.L.P. Muddle
An illuminating picture of Labor chaos
is presented by the spectacle of Dr.
Evatt acknowledging the Democratic
Labor Party as a party serving A.L.P.
policy ; the D.L.P. insists, in effect, that
it is doing nothing of the kind, and that
the A.L.P. is a sort of branch of the
Communist party or, anyway, under its
influence.
The booklet containing the “Rules and
Constitution and the Policy and Plat-
form (State and Federal)” of the Aus-
tralian Labor Party (N.S.W. branch,
1958-59 edition) gives an even better
picture. It is issued from Room 32,
Trades Hall, Sydney, headquarters of
both Federal and State A.L.P. activities,
where it is sold over the counter.
The Federal caucus has two Parlia-
mentary members on the Central State
Executive—Dan Curtin and E. J. Ward,
according to the handbook —and the State
Executive has its chairman and general
secretary on the Federal Executive.
The A.L.P. candidate must pledge him-
self to “actively support and advocate at
all times the party’s objective—the
Socialisation of Industry, Production,
Distribution and Exchange.
Presumably through not carrying-out
this pledge, and even deprecating the
possibility of its being “practical politics,”
Dr. Evatt, as a member of a State branch
of the party and its endorsed candidate,
is rendering himself liable to have his
endorsement withdrawn.
However, there is much more in it
than that. It was noticeable that in two
copies of the 1958-59 Rules and Consti-
tution of the N.S.W. branch bought
within the last fortnight pages 53-60 are
missing.
These contain the first half of the
Federal Labor platform, which was
reworded in argot, full of Kremlin slogans
and cliches, by the Federal conference in
March, 1957. The reader needs a
Marxist glossary at his elbow when
reading it.
Apparently the State Executive finds
it embarrassing to have the Federal
document too easily available, since Dr.
Evatt’s policy-speech seems to bear little
or no relation to it, and its stated objec-
tive varies starkly from the State objec-
tive, though the State branch is the
operative branch which endorses candi-
dates.
Dr. Evatt’s Federal objective reads:
The Democratic Socialisation of industry,
production, distribution and exchange—to
the extent necessary to eliminate exploita-
tion and other anti-social features in those
fields—in accordance with the principles
of Action, Methods and Progressive
Reforms set out in the Platform.
In its interpretation the party says it
“believes that democratic socialisation is
the utilisation of the economic assets of
the State in the interests of the citizens,
and that man is greater than the machine
he uses or the environment in which he
lives.”
The plain, blunt fellows of the State
branch merely give straightout a single
objective: “The socialisation of industry,
production, distribution and exchange,
also to secure to the people complete
political, religious, industrial and cul-
tural freedom in accordance with the
ideals of the Australian people”—as
interpreted, of course, by the A.L.P.
It is quite obvious, reading the two
platforms, that there is ostensible
variance between the Federal and State
conceptions of socialisation, and, seeing
that he leads the Federal party and is a
State branch member, it appears that Dr.
Evatt supports both (even when they are
in conflict), some of the views of Mr.
Warwick Fairfax, and also his own
current view, which is that because of the
state of Commonwealth law, socialisation
is not practical politics!
Raffle Clean-up
Agitation about quiz-raffles has been
evident in Government quarters in Vic-
toria for some months, and Attorney-
General Rylah got the opportunity he
has been seeking to explain the reason
when he introduced a bill to prohibit
them.
These are raffles which would be illegal
if the drawer of the winning marble in
the raffle was not put through a quiz.
The test of knowledge is a question, or
series of questions, so simple that the
winner can hardly fail to guess, but this
has by-passed the gaming laws, or has
been thought to evade them, in the past.
The cause of the Government’s indig-
nation were quiz-raffles similar in result
to that quoted by Rylah in the Assembly
in which the public bought £16,996-worth
of tickets, but the value, of the prizes was
£10,836 ; “promotion” costs were £6158,
and the charity therefore received the
balance, £2.
The new bill handles the issue with
gumption. It extends the field for which
raffles may be held from the Red Cross,
charitable and patriotic funds to include
cultural, social and sporting clubs
approved by the Governor-in-Council,
and the prizes, instead of being mere
“articles,” may now be houses, land, cars,
holidays or travel-trips and the like. These
will be licensed raffles ; the Government
calls them “controlled,” apparently to
avoid wowser cries.
At present only the quiz-raffles may
offer these enticing prizes; the legal
raffle can offer only “articles.”
Rylah’s bill also permits registered
bookmakers to post their odds, chiefly on
doubles and trebles, to their clients. The
odds about picking the Caulfield Cup
and Melbourne Cup double is known to
most people, but it has been illegal for
a bookmaker to inform his patrons what
he is offering- through the post. This
should not result in any notable increase
in betting. On the contrary, it may prove
intimidating.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
'T'he reported attempts of the Mayor
of Drummoyne (Sydney) to
acquire a chain-of-office remind _me of
a man who solved a similar difficulty—•
“Raggy” Holland, a War I Digger at
the soldier-settlement of Wall Flat, on
the Murray in S.A.: he felt the place
should have a Lord Mayor, and elected
himself. For robes he had an old
dressing-gown trimmed with white rabbit-
fur ; his chain was composed of gilded
crown-seals from beer-bottles. In an old
barn he established a museum, admis-
sion by silver coin, and proceeds to the
district hospital. Among the exhibits
was the skull of Carbine ; alongside it
an even more remarkable relic: Carbine’s
skull when he was a foal. The rest of
the collection may not be described in
print—the notice on the door, “Women
and Children Not Admitted,” gives a clue.
For a distinguished visitor, Holland
would don his robes and chain-of-office,
then do the honors of the museum.
When the fate Lord Gowrie toured
soldier-settlements the official programme
allowed him 10 minutes at that museum,
but two hours went by before he could
be persuaded to leave. Afterwards,
still chuckling, he declared that in all
his travels he had never seen anything
to compare with it. It raised a tidy sum
for the hospital, while Holland’s chain-
of-office became world-famous. Surely
enough crown-seals to make up a replica
could be collected in Drummoyne?,—
“Bogaduck.”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“C.A.L.”: Boan Bros.’ £i-million
branch-store on the Albany Highway
seven miles from Perth is their first ven-
ture in the suburbs. In 1895 Boan Bros,
vowed never to conduct a business again
in a mining town. First opening in
Broken Hill, they flourished till a big
strike in 1893. They stood by their
old customers, but supplied blankets to
a special labor force introduced from
Adelaide to work the idle mines.
When the striking miners returned to
work they boycotted the store because
of this. Facing bankruptcy, the brothers
sold out and moved to Perth, where
today they have 1500 employees.
❖ *X* *l*
“Sempronius”: Before October 12
Sydney “Sunday Telegraph” had on its
front-page: “The largest circulation of
any daily or Sunday newspaper in New
South Wales.” Its issue of October 12
substituted: “The largest circulation of
any quality newspaper in New South
Wales.” Why pay their flock of columnists
when they can be as funny as that
unsigned?
❖ +>
“Metax”: Fifty-three years ago a
swing-bridge over the Denison canal at
Dunally (Tas.) was built for £l3OO. Now
the Speck P.W.D. estimates the cost of a
replacement at £97,000,
“Mugga Way”: Diplomas for women
secretaries found efficient by examina-
tion are planned by the Victorian
Employers’ Federation, which says that
.women who gain the diplomas will have
real standing in their offices, and be able
to accept and occupy positions of respon-
sibility and trust. It sounds a good idea,
but when I mentioned it to my typist
she turned a little green. Later, I actually
saw her consulting a dictionary—and I
hadn’t suspected that she could read!
***
“Maitri”: For as long as I can remem-
ber, a frail-looking but cheerful Salvation
Army lass has made a Weekly collection
on the uncovered overhead bridge at our
railway-station. In sun and shower,
piercing westerly or blistering northerly,
she’s never missed-out until the last few
weeks, when her place has been taken
by a youngish man. As I made my
modest donation I asked him what had
become of the lady. “She’s been in
hospital with pneumonia,” he told me,
•“but she’ll be back on the job next
Wednesday.” “She must be getting on,”
I said. “Too right she is,” he replied ;
“she’s just a couple of months off ninety.”
>*♦ *
“Bo”: There were about six of them
together in a corner of the bar, and they
were in the middle of a whingeing ses-
sion. Apart from a taste for what they
were soaking-up, one thing they had in
common was that they were all well
and truly on the rocks. The moaner-in-
chief, gazing gloomily into his beer,
seemed to be deeper in the coils of the
h.-p. anaconda than the rest. Every week
his pay-envelope was tickled for £l2 for
car, TV, fridge and washing-machine.
“ ’Struth, George,” remarked one of his
cobbers, “how the hell do you manage
to make both ends meet?” “Make both
ends meet!” echoed George. “Why,
they’re so far apart one bloody end’s
clean out of sight!”
“Yes, Joe , bring the gang over —she’s just gone”
IN VINO VERITAS
“N.S.W. Brewers' Association contributed
£lO,OOO of the £31,750 raised at the inaugural
dinner in Sydney of the Foundation for
Research and Treatment of Alcoholism.”
“Tell me, my man,” the Brewer said,
“Is it a tendency to frolic,
Or melancholy, deep inbred,
Makes alcoholics alcoholic?”
“Well, since you ask me, mate, I think
It's generally caused by drink.”
“You err in your approach, my friend.
Have you not felt that beer and wine
Are never, in themselves, an end —
Merely a genial medicine?”
“No, mate. Of course, I’ve seen it work —
But then, it’s just an old tarts’ lurk.”
“Ah, why should I expect a fool
To solve the problem he created
When I can help to start a school —-
Ten-thousand pounds to have yoic
treated?”
“Treated? Why, that's like dreams come
true.
Thanks, mate; I don't mind if I do.”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


Calling for lunch at a hostelry
in Amalfi, I was having a wash
before the meal when I felt what I
thought was a cat rubbing around my
feet. Looking down, I found it to be
a porter brushing my shoes! I am sure
he would have licked them had I asked,
his objective being a tip, of course.
Although Australian hotel service could
be improved, I hope it’s never improved
to this degree. —“Croid.”
*z*
“Kerba”: “Make a good bottle-oh”
used to be the standard comment on a
voice that was considered more mighty
than musical. It’s no longer applicable —
the bottle-oh who occasionally fayors
our district with a visit purrs softly into
a microphone.
* ❖ *
“Green Willows”: On being a tactless
wife: My husband brought home to
dinner a fellow-engineer from West
Africa ; gentle, friendly, interested,
interesting, and black as ebony. We soon
felt like old friends, and it was quite
natural to have him follow us out to
the kitchen after dinner and talk as we
washed-up. He said he’d like a glass
of cold water, so, with both hands in
the sink, I invited him to help himself
out of our water-bottle in the fridge.
It has a lift-off lid, this bottle, which
tricks many people ; and there he stood,
patiently screwing. And then l said it —
not meaning any harm ; not even, by
that time, remembering—“My dear Mr.
Dash, you will do that until you are
black in the face.”
4*4 4%
“Cynic”: All my grandparents
selected their specs, from a dusty box
under the counter of the store in our
small Victorian town (B. 8/10/’5B). If
in good circumstances, they paid Is. 6d. ;
less if pensioners ; nothing if really hard-
up. The storekeeper used them —one
pair for general use, two pairs to read,
and three pairs for fine print. This
always tickled the fancies of the com-
mercial travellers, who made sure that
he had occasion to use the full comple-
ment.
“North Esk”: Commonwealth Bank’s
commemoration of Australian explorers
such as Sturt, Hume and Flinders on its
notes has been helpful to a Launceston
(Tas.) youngster doing his school-project.
His roving eye glimpsed a couple of the
bank’s productions which his mother had
left ready for some household purchases.
When she picked them up later she found
the pictures had been neatly clipped out
for pasting into son’s history-book!
❖ ❖ ❖
“Jeyles”: In Manila the Filipino, if
going steady, takes his sweetie-pie to the
palatial “Sky room,” where they can
dance, see the floor-show, dine
elaborately, or lose their shirts betting
on the bounding Basques playing their
incredible pelota. But Ramon may not
take his Paquita to any of the other stylish
cabarets—they are 100 per cent, dance-
hostessed. Experience has taught that
husband-attended women note and later
discuss male habitues, thus creating
possible disharmony ; so now the rule
is strictly enforced: “No Accompanied
Ladies!”
“Jay Dee”: His path from the pub
would have broken a snake's back, and
he had obvious trouble traversing two
footpaths where only one existed. So
I was rather surprised to see him make
for a late-model sedan and clamber
behind the wheel. A young cop crossed
and tapped the boozer on the shoulder.
“You’re not going to drive now, are you,
skipper?” he asked gently. There was a
long moment while the question pene-
trated the alcoholic haze. “Not gonna
drive?” he growled at last. “What do
you mean, ‘not gonna drive'? Em in
no condition to walk, am I?”
►> ♦!« *
“Ardoyne”: A British migrant living
in Victoria was knocked down and had
his arm broken when a doctor's Labrador
dog chasing a small terrier collided with
him ; he sued the doctor, but the magis-
trate, while “very greatly regretting” that
he could not allow the claim, ruled that
the wording of the Dog Act rendered a
dog’s owner liable only when the dog
had deliberately rushed at the injured
person. This provision, he considered,
did not cover the “blundering behavior
of a dog at play.”
* ❖ *
“Matilda”: The autumn afternoon was
warm and sunny ; birds sang in the tall
trees, silver gulls perched on the small
craft anchored in the bay, and a lone
bather splashed in the netted pool. Three
little boys paddled a raft near the shore,
the paddles pieces of driftwood. The
swimmer left the pool, the boys and raft
moved in, the boys to practise diving
from the raft. A small hole being found
on the top of the raft, diving was for-
gotten, and shortly afterwards the blue
water of the pool was covered with kapok
which gradually drifted out and sur-
rounded the little boats, while a discarded
bed-ticking lay on the white sand.
* * *
“Lorna Doone”: A gentleman, foggy
with the grog, had been riding up and
down in the lift. The driver questioned
him re his requirements, and eventually
decided that he was in the wrong build-
ing. So he edged him out on the ground-
floor ; then remarked: “Almost 'ear the
grape-pickers singing!”
“Ceg”: Following on the disappear-
ance of the Occidental Hotel from
Collins, Street East (B. 10/9/’5B) comes
news of yet another two prospective
losses from that end of the town. First
is Jonas’s fruit-shop ; its Collins Street
frontage has been bought by Consoli-
dated Zinc Pty., Ltd., who, no doubt,
will replace it with a huge structure of
steel and glass. Myself, I’d rather the
fruit-shop —what a fruit-shop it was!
The window was one of the bright spots
of Collins Street East, and I have yet
to learn of a fruit which could not be
bought there. There is a story that two
journalists from the Melbourne “Herald,”
on a tour of North Queensland and
adjacent parts, were told to bring back
to Melbourne two green coconuts ; but
they couldn't find any on their travels.
Yet on their return just those very things
were displayed in Jonas’s window. And
the “Herald” office is just round the
corner! Next on the doomed list is


Franz’s grocery in the old Eastern
Market, off Collins Street East. Rare
Continental delicacies were the speciality
there, and it was noticeable that the
stars of visiting opera-companies soon
found that modest establishment. A
multi-million-pound hotel is likely to be
built on the market site by Pan American
World Airways, in which case good-
bye to the house of Franz.
*X*
“C.A.L.”: For the past few weeks my
morning ablutions have been made with
miniature cakes of soap ; shaving is done
with mini-tubes of cream, and hair
slicked with small-sized bottles of
hair-oil. Breakfast cereals are served
from little cartons, and marmalade and
honey from jars which look like the off-
spring of standard containers. Lunch is
made-up from small tins of jam and
potted meats, while condiments flavoring
dinner-courses are poured from bottles
holding only a few ounces. Is this a
proletarian rebellion against the king-
size? No ; it’s the result of my children’s
sample-bag hunting at Perth’s Royal
Show.
“Bicky”: As we journeyed into the
city on Saturday morning he discussed
his great love of the racing game. “I
know a lot of funny things go on in
racing at times,” he said, “but that could
apply to a lot of other activities, too.
Why, you’re lucky to buy a pound of
apples these days without finding at least
one bad one in the bag!”
❖ +%*
“Jaybee”: In his comments on Mel-
bourne’s one-class train-travel “Yakipan”
(B. 8/10/’5B) omitted to mention one of
the unexpected advantages gained by the
ejected first-class traveller. Whereas
under the old arrangement many first-
class travellers spent the journey to and
from the city hanging on to straps or
standing unsteadily between seats, they
are now to be seen sitting, quite com-
fortably, in the formerly despised second-
class carriages. There still remain the
“How lovely! That's the sweetest engagement-ring I've ever had!"
few snobs who stand in the first-class
carriages rather than sit in the second-
class. And there’s the case of the
woman who, on being informed by her
teenage daughter- that they could now
travel in the upholstered first-class
carriage, snorted: “Indeed we won’t —
I’ve voted Labor all my life, and I’m not
changin’ now”; and pushed the girl into
a second-class compartment.
“Holy Moses”: An extremely chilly
reception was afforded the Salvation
Army gentleman when he strolled into
the radio-station and asked for a parcel
of banned recordings. For ages he’d
been giving a weekly religious broad-
cast ; we had all liked and respected
him —and yet . . . Locating the parcel,
a selection of military airs, we realized
our error and, wreathed in smiles, pre-
sented the honorable gentleman with his
recordings, hoping that he hadn’t guessed
at the evilness of our thoughts.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sister Ellell”: Trolley-buses are com-
fortable if one is seated, but standing-up
is a different story. Yesterday, only the
fact that we were packed in like humans
prevented many a fall as she pitched,
tossed, and swayed this way and that.
Called the conductor to the driver, “Not
going kindly for yer, Joe?” Came the
reply: “Nope. Think we must be on
that new kangaroo-power today!”
❖ ❖ *l*
“Arrigata”: Spouse in Kobe shop, not
finding desired noritake teapot, makes
a trifling purchase of a 20-yen (6yd.)
.stfA'e-bowi. Shopkeeper wraps it color-
fully, receives yen, remarks “Present for
nice lady,” and attaches a crystal-duck
charm. Spouse, having been briefed on
this etiquette, presents shopkeeper and
wife each with one rapturously-received
“kangaroo-penny.” Shopkeeper then has
to chase us down the street to maintain
the gift-for-gift principle by giving me
a tiny crystal Bambi.
❖ *X* *l*
“Eureka”: Retired railway employee
who had lived at Newcastle for many
years decided to sell his home and move
to Sydney. Outside his cottage, in view
of the railway-line, he erected a “For
Sale” notice which mentioned wall-to-
wall carpets, Venetian blinds, electric-
light, etc. Some wag one night altered
it to read: “This cottage for sale, com-
plete with railway-carriage carpets, ditto
blinds, signal-lamps, and good supply of
coal.” Known as one of the most honest
men in the service, he enjoyed the joke
and sold the cottage in a very short time.
MUGS FOR LUCK
“It is undeniable that many women find
attraction in men who are quite lacking in
good looks. Even extreme ugliness is not the
handicap it once was for a man seeking a
wife”— Women’s magazine.
The face that girls used to revere,
Like the Apollo Belvedere —
Of finely chiselled, noble features —
Is challenged strongly now, you’ll find,
By phizogs of the homely kind,
For women are the strangest creatures.
They’ll change their taste in masculine
clocks
As easily as in hats and frocks.
Even a Frankenstein-like moosh’ll
Be more or less acceptable.
The ugliest man need not repel,
Nor hide his light under a bushel.
Heart up ! You chaps who own a dial
You’ve long regarded as a trial,
Something to shudder at while shaving ;
The sort to send terrified dogs
Bolting for nearest hollow lows;
One with a texture tough as paving—
A conquest in the realms of love,
That once you deemed so far above
Your reach, is now yours for the asking.
Such is the change, you even may
With justifiable pride display
The chiv. that once you felt like
masking !
And yet, might not this preference
Be soundly based on common sense ?
The man whose pan’s devoid of beauty,
Unlike the handsome chap, she’d say,
Would have a far less chance to stray
Or to be lured by other cutie.
And when you see a cove with face
That’s like a Thing from Outer Space
Carting around some gorgeous vision,
The thought intrudes that outsize wad
Attached to this odd-looking bod.
Has really caused her date-decision.
n.s.w.
S.W.K.


ONLY 12 MILES FROM THE G.P.O.
By MARGARET ELDRIDGE
u * nd it’s only twelve miles from
A the G.P.0.!” they cry when
jL\. for the first time they stand
under our old elm-trees. We
look to the west across orchards (sugar-
pink now with blossom) and see Mount
Macedon humped on the horizon. We
look to the north, and have an unin-
terrupted view, over green and undulating
country, to the Plenty Ranges. We look
to the east and to the south, and see
the gentle uprising of ploughed and
planted paddocks. At night a jewelled
carpet of colored lights spreads out to
show us where the city is. And in the
early morning bands of mist lie in the
valley where the river winds, and turn
it into a strange land of slowly moving
shapes.
Beside a narrow, sandy road there is
a plot of ground where wildflowers and
feathery grasses grow in profusion and
keep company with their cultivated
relatives, the roses, the lilies and the
bland white daisies. A small copse of
slender wattles shelters it from north
winds. Serene and undisturbed, it bears
in stone testimony of the lives and deaths
of some of Victoria’s earliest settlers.
Here the kookaburras meet, and, perch-
ing on some of the more grandiose of
the memorials, lift up their raucous
voices in throaty hilarity. Here, too, the
grey-fox is sometimes seen.
TTp to five years ago—before the march
of progress began to catch-up with
us —most of our odd jobs, and even our
building, was done by local talent.
Indeed, to import labor was felt to be
at least in questionable taste, if not
actually treasonable! Chief among our
craftsmen-artisans was Sam. Though of
Scandinavian descent, Sam was Austra-
lian to his backbone ; he was of middle-
size and middle-age, hard and brown;
the father of a large family.
Endowed with a rich vein of humor,
and possessing an ingrained and natural
courtesy, Sam was absolutely fearless in
all his undertakings. He would sink a
septic-tank, wire your house for elec-
tricity or dig your grave with an equally
friendly optimism. Almost every day he
was to be seen mounted on an aged
motor-cycle chugging his cheerful way
around his clients. He carried the tools
appropriate to the day’s work in a bag
on his back, and his neat little black
terrier rode on the petrol-tank in front
of him. In winter his head was pro-
tected by an aviator’s helmet, and in
summer by a boy’s cotton sun-hat.
/-\ne afternoon Sam failed to keep an
appointment at our house ; but next
day he arrived, full of smiling apology.
“Sorry I slipped you up yesterday,
Missus,” he said. “Had to dig a hole
over at the ‘cemmie.’ We were putting
old B —I—l 1 —1 down. Seems only like
yesterday I was helping him and his
missus fix-up their place—just like I’m
helping you and your husband today.”
“How did it go ?” I asked. “The hole-
digging, I mean.”
Sam shook his head, but his bright
ey ?^r Ciail u* eC l „ ~.
Very hard going it was at first, Missus.
Ground was like a rock. So, as iime was
getting on, and being so hot like, I put
down a little charge of dynamite. That
did a proper job! You should have
seen the tombstones rock! It was like
the Day of Judgment!”
Dear Sam! He has left us now, and
we miss him sadly. We miss all
that he stands for. But perhaps he was
wise to go when he did.
Until a few weeks ago our township
consisted of one general-store (which is
also the post-office), one “lollie-shop,” a
butcher, and a farrier, who will either
shoe your horses or fill your tank with
petrol. We also have a hall, where the
Annual Dance is held, and a school,
which is tucked into a natural setting
of wattle and flowering-gums. We have
three small churches, a War Memorial
and one very old hotel. The nearest
train and the nearest tram are four miles
away, and this is probably why we have
been left in peace until now . . .
Until now! Even as I write, the brick
and concrete octopus, which for so long
we have seen reaching out for us, has
clasped us at last! Bulldozers have had
their way with pastures and with pine-
trees. Beside the War Memorial huge
signs acclaim the existence of several
“Desirable Building Sites,” suitable for
the erection of “Distinctive Homes.”
Behind the general-store a veritable little
shopping-centre is rising daily. There
has even been talk of a drive-in theatre!
Well, why not? After all, Temple-
stowe is only 12 miles from the G.P.O!
LAW AND ORDER ON THE GOLDFIELDS
By ALEC CHISHOLM
the Victorian goldfield of Mary-
borough, when in its infancy in 1855,
came close to staging a variant of Eureka
(B. 8 /10 / ’5B), and it’s odd that the spec-
tacular occurrence and related matters
have been neglected by historians.
When I was a youngster in Mary-
borough the old-timers used to talk
briskly, but vaguely, of the “Tipperary
Riots,” and to this day there’s a slight
eminence at Alma (a few miles out of
the town) known as Tipperary Hill —an
equivalent of Castle Hill (west of Sydney),
where in 1804 N. S. Wales Irishmen
revolted and 24 lives were lost by shoot-
ing and hanging.
It was youthful recollections that
caused me, a couple of years ago, to ask
an historian to delve into old newspapers
and put together, for the new Australian
Encyclopedia, articles on both the
Tipperary Riots and the Maryborough
Mutual Protection Society ; and now it
may be noted that our statements and
the article in The Bulletin agree well
regarding the riots, but differ slightly in
relation to the M.P.S.
Actually, that sturdy group was not
composed wholly of miners, and was not
formed as a result of the “Tip.” riots.
Whereas the brawl occurred on June 15,
the Melbourne “Argus” had earlier
referred, under the heading of “Im-
promptu Law at Maryborough,” to the
operations of the society, and in particu-
lar to its success in hobbling “Black
Douglas” and other bushrangers who had
long eluded the police.
“Here we find,” said the “Argus,” “a
society composed of men of business, and
eminently respectable men, who sign
large cheques, keep big books and are in
goods, both hard and soft, both wet and
dry, organising themselves in the midst
of an orderly British colony, and within
a hundred miles of the central effulgence
of Toorak, to perform the simplest
function of government.”
Maryborough was less than a year old
when its M.P.S. was formed ; yet that
body not only included many men of
business (as well as “eminently respect-
able men”), who were able to “sign large
cheques,” but it had a membership of
about 3000 and was functioning under
printed rules—printed at “Cook and
Sherborn’s Cheap Printing Office, oppo-
site Theatre Royal.”
Those rules, 11 in number, made it
clear that the society, while not advocat-
ing lynching, was determined “to protect
the honest and industrious inhabitants of
the Maryborough diggings, to take cognis-
ance of all idle and suspicious characters
. . . . and, generally, to suppress crime.”
The rules set out means for calling
members together smartly, and also pro-
vided for a paid secretary to be estab-
lished in “a suitable tent in a central
situation.”
As far as I’m aware, no original copy
of those rules has survived —the quota-
tions here are from a reproduction in an
old newspaper—nor is there any record
remaining from similar societies that
were formed, or (according to the
“Argus”) at least projected, in the same
district.
That lack is regrettable. For certainly
the Maryborough Mutual Protection
Society and its offshoots, which appear
to have functioned with Governmental
approval, rank as colorful side-issues in
the social history of the goldfields.


POLITICAL POINTS
The Prime Minister will deliver his
policy-speech tonight (Wednesday) in the
Canterbury Memorial Hall in his Koo-
yong electorate. Despite the determined
attempt in Wattle Street (that’s where
Granny “Herald” lives) to rewrite it for
him, his speech is unlikely to contain any
surprise election-bribes.
Tomorrow night Menzies will speak in
the Adelaide suburb Glenelg, and on
Friday at the Rivoli Hall, Hurstville, con-
veniently situated on the border of two
Sydney suburban electorates —St. George,
narrowly won in 1955 by Bruce Graham,
and Barton, which the Doc., after several
narrow squeaks, tossed-in this year as too
hot to hold.
Next week Menzies’s programme
includes Hobart, Launceston, Geelong
and Moonee Ponds, and his subsequent
schedule provides for visits to Perth,
Adelaide, Sydney, Brisbane and Towns-
ville. His final meeting will be held at
the St. Kilda Town Hall on November
20, two nights before the poll.
• •
Federal rolls closed on October 22 ;
nominations close at noon on Friday,
October 31 ; polling-day is November 22.
• •
Dr. Evatt is in an almost unique posi-
tion in this election-campaign. He seems
to have the admiration of Sydney
“Herald,” on one hand —its Sunday
commentator felt that his offer to leave
the party leaderless after an election and
to ask the country to vote blind for an
unknown Prime Minister was a “bold,
shrewd tactic which must surely aid his
party,” and that “Evattism will go march-
ing on whether Dr. Evatt leads the
A.L.P. or not.” On the other hand, the
Communist party supports his policy as
“a progressive immediate programme
which has many points in common with
the immediate programme of the Com-
munist party.” With Sydney “Herald,”
the Communist party shares an undying
dislike of Menzies.
• •
Evatt’s resignation offer applied to the
position of party-leader only. He didn’t
promise not to seek Cabinet rank in the
event of a Labor victory. Under Curtin
and Chifiey he was Attorney-General and
Minister for External Affairs. These are
the two portfolios he would be most
likely to seek if he passed-up the Prime
Ministership. And they are the two posts
the D.L.P. would least like to see him
hold.
• •
F. E. Chamberlain is indignant that
the D.L.P. should insult a high-principled
organisation like the A.L.P. by asking if
to forswear its Hobart Conference
policies. He says the policies are “not
for sale.” He, however, feels no qualms
about Dr. Evatt, his leader, having put
himself up for sale. The A.L.P. would
apparently be ready to give him away
with a packet of tea.
• •
Granting permission to the Air Force
Association to conduct an art-union with
the Sea Breeze Hotel at Tom Ugly’s Point
as first-prize—no tickets to be sold until
the Christian Brothers’ art-union in which
the Pacific Hotel at Manly is first-prize is
filled —N.S.W. Chief Secretary Gus Kelly
expressed concern at what he called “a
trend towards mammoth art-unions.”
The trend is a bad one, but who
started it?
The N.S.W. Lottery Office runs
“specials,” “mammoths” and “jackpots,”
and these prize-pub art-unions didn’t bob-
up until Cahill organised his Opera House
lottery. If Gus is “concerned” he can
easily reverse the trend by amending the
Art Unions Act to limit the value of
prizes.
• •
The richest efforts in the Evatt bid for
office are his proposals about import-
licensing. “Labor will not tolerate
racketeering or blackmarketing,” he says.
Can’t he remember the affair of Senator
Keane’s trunks which blew-up while he
was in office? Or the blackmarkets which
raged throughout Australia all the time
Labor's “controls” oppressed the national
economy from 1942 to 1949? The black-
market was the greatest source of profit
that Labor hangers-on of the period ever
had in their lives.
• •
Obviously Victoria needs an efficient
Parliamentary Public Accounts Commit-
tee, too, and, just as importantly, a
Professor Bland to chair it. In reply to
a Labor questioner, Bolte has admitted
that 2353 State employees get £2OOO a
year or more:
Staffs of boards, trusts and commissions,
878; teaching service, 631; professional
public service, 494; administrative p.s.,
113; railways, 110; members of boards,
trusts and commissions, 80; judiciary, 26;
Parliament House staff, 16; police force, 5.
It isn’t only the staffs of “boards, trusts
and commissions” who have proved so
expensive during Bolte’s lax Treasury
control, but the well-paid staffs they have
built-up under them.
• •
A Hobart jury on Friday acquitted
Dr. Reginald Turnbull, former Tas-
manian Treasurer, on a charge of having
solicited a bribe from George Fitz-
patrick, of Sydney, in return for the
issue of a licence to run Tasmanian
lotteries. Dr. Turnbull claimed that Fitz-
patrick offered him the bribe. Turnbull
resigned his portfolio in July this year
when charges of corruption were made
against him. He is expected to return
to office in the Tasmanian Labor Govern-
ment this week.
• •
Senator McManus (D.L.P.) on his
former leaders: “I know what Dr. Evatt
thinks about his deputy-leader (Mr. Cal-
well), because he told me. And I know
what the deputy-leader thinks about Dr.
Evatt. And the only thing you can say
about what they both think is that it is
probably true.”
A.L.P. ANONYMOUS


When I am voting on the stair
I’ll choose a man who isn’t there,
For if I put him in today
Tomorrowt he will go away.
• •
Befriended by Sydney “Herald,” and
pledged to resign leadership if elected,
Dr. Evatt’s followers don’t know whether
it is more urgent to save him from his
friends or from himself. t
o •
This offer-to-resign technique has great
possibilities. As Menzies is Public Enemy
No. 1 in Labor propaganda he could
offer to resign in return for exchange
of preferences with the A.L.P. Pat
Morton could offer to resign if Cahill
agreed to appoint a royal commission
on the N.S.W. police-force. Going
further afield, Khrushchev could under-
take to chuck-in his chips provided
Britain and America accepted a Com-
munist form of government; and Chiang
Kai-shek could agree to resign as Presi-
dent of Nationalist China provided he
was made President of all China. Back
to home affairs again, perhaps it might
be a good idea if all Federal candidates
agreed to resign their seats if elected, just
to give the electors an opportunity of
exercising second thoughts.
• •
Sir Douglas Copland, who is re-
ported to have resigned his post
as head of the Australian Adminis-
trative Staff College, and who has “been
around” in the vocational sense,
was in good form when he addressed the
annual convention of the Australian
Junior Chamber of Commerce in Mel-
bourne on October 21. Ad-libbing
around his prepared address (the sub-
stance of which appears on page 21, this
issue), some of his comments were,
“There is no future in nostalgia,” “You
can’t grow-up without growing,” and
“There is no substitute for adolescence.”
It would appear that the author of the
quip “milk-bar economy” as a descrip-
tion of the consumer-demand boom in
Australia immediately following the war is
still in top condition as a penetrating critic.
• •
Bolte’s new bread bill, which is likely
to be the most contentious legislation of
the current session, abolishes the bread
industry’s “zoning” (monopoly) system,
sets new standards, including vitamins,
for loaves, compels millers to supply flour
to bakers (who are not in the monopoly),
eases restrictions on baking-hours and
sets-up a bread-industry committee of
nine, with fair representation of the
unions and master-bakers, and an
independent chairman.
The bill gives the consumers a choice
of delivery, bakers and bread, a better
loaf from all bakers and, probably,
greater competition within the industry.
The provisions of the bill look so reason-
able it is difficult to forecast what com-
plaint the master-bakers’ representatives
in the House, the Country and Labor
parties, can find with it; but undoubtedly
they will find plenty.
• •
Add one more to the list of military
dictatorships. In Siam last week Field-
Marshal Sarit Thanarat, C.-in-C. of the
army, took-over the Government, pro-
claimed martial law, dissolved all
political parties, closed several news-
paper offices and arrested a number of
people who were later charged with
Communist activities. This is Sarit’s
second coup. A year ago he staged an
army uprising and dismissed the Govern-
ment. The Ministers who resigned just
before his latest seizure of power were
his appointees, but he says his action
was necessary “to meet the serious Com-
munist threat from abroad and at home
and to preserve the Constitutional
monarchy.”
• •
“Uramao”: New Zealand’s recent
adoption of pay-as-you-earn tax has
stirred the brains of Enzedders. A bushel
of gobbledegook forms and pamphlets,
lectures by tax-office officials, and per-
sonal interviews by Inland Revenue
jokers confounded confusion. The
matter was brought up in the House, and
the Minister in charge of the department
admitted the difficulties and promised that
the taxgatherers would be instructed to
simplify forms. Jack Watt, Minister of
Finance in the National Government,
confessed that the filling-in of his form
for tax purposes beat him and that he
had to consult the Tax Department for
enlightenment.
• •
Canadian officials don’t seem to have
any doubts about the outcome of the
Federal election. A cable from Ottawa,
discussing the programme of Canadian
Prime Minister Diefenbaker, who arrives
in Canberra for a brief visit on December
3, says he “will dine with the Australian
Prime Minister, Mr. Menzies, on the
night of his arrival.”
Correct protocol in the present delicate
situation would have demanded some-
thing like this: "... .with the Australian
Prime Minister—Mr. Menzies or Dr.
Evatt, or, in the event of the acceptance
by the D.L.P. of the latter’s offer to
resign, and assuming that his party wins
the election on November 22, whoever
may be chosen by caucus to succeed Dr.
Evatt as leader of the A.L.P.”
• •
“D.”: Melbourne's annual Presby-
terian General Assembly is a stimulating
few days ; no issue is too contentious,
and the debates are hot, strong and
considerably higher intellectually than
the Legislative Assembly’s. This year the
reverends examined Freemasonry, not
because of any innate hostility to the
brotherhood, but from the fear of a
section that the duties of the lodge might
compete with those of the church (and
did overridingly, according to some
ministers).
After an admirable debate, in which
the logic of both the non-Mason and
Masonic ministers seemed undeniable,
the assembly tossed out two motions
declaring Freemasonry un-Christian and
another declaring church members free
to use disciplined societies, showing, no
doubt, it had no rule but was on the
level.
• •
Still doggedly defying all scientific and
expert opinion, the N.S.W. State member
for Monaro, J. SeifFert, is again attempt-
ing to reverse the ban on summer grazing
on snow-leases on the Snowy Mountains
catchment above 4500 ft. Premier Cahill,
faced by the threat of resignation of
Conservation Minister Wetherill if the
decision were reversed, has again played
a smoothly delaying hand by appointing
a sub-committee to consider the matter.
If the committee has any sense it won’t
meet before the summer.
• •
“M.W.”: Mostly drinkers and smokers
don’t realise how their pleasures slug
their pocketbooks and purses, but a Mel-
bourne publican has decided to let his
customers know. He’s wrapping his
bottled beer irf bags carrying a message
in big type: “Federal and State taxa-
tion is Is. 7d. on a-packet of cigarettes
sold for 2s. 7d. ; 54-d. on a 7oz. glass of
beer, and Is. lOd. on a bottle of beer.
Please write to your State member and
to candidates standing in the Federal elec-
tions. Ask them to cut these taxes and
make your pay-envelope go further.”
• •
Twenty representative citizens, includ-
ing a minister, a priest and a housewife,
turned-up in Spring Street to persuade
Bolte to save Wonthaggi, the Victorian
black-coal town ; dismissals have been
ordered at the mine, which is losing
£300,000 a year.
Wonthaggi was a godsend for Victoria
in the days when the N.S.W. miners
weren’t working because pit-ponies had
halitosis, and so on, and it could be
again. This is the first hint of an
economy by Sir Arthur Warner, the
expensive Minister for Transport, but it
should not be difficult for Cabinet to stay
the execution of Wonthaggi while one of
the over-many industries now crowding
around General Motors at Dandenong
was nudged a little farther south-east
to Wonthaggi.
• •
“Chasp”: Further to “Redevelopment
on the March” (B. 15/10/’5B) which out-
lined a proposed scheme by architects
to turn McMahon’s Point, on the
northern foreshores of Sydney Harbor,
into an up-to-date residential area: last
week Minister for Local Government
Renshaw announced that he had decided
to rezone McMahon’s Point as residen-
tial. Renshaw is following Seidler and
co.’s planning-scheme, and work on a
23-floor building of 132 flats “would
begin soon.” The harbor foreshores
will look better as a residential (rather
than an industrial) area.


Personal ITEMS
Claimed to be the first Maori to be
appointed to an overseas N.Z. post,
C. M. Bennett goes to the job of High
Commissioner in Malaya. Son of the
Bishop of Aotearoa, he’s a former con-
troller of the Native Welfare Department
and is at present at Oxford reading for
a doctorate of philosophy. Now 45, he
served with distinction in the N.Z. forces
in War 11, ending as a lieut.-colonel with
D.
• e
First flock of Australian politicians
to have a flying look at the Antarctic
are five Liberal M.P.s: W. C.
Wentworth (N.S.W.), Sir Wilfrid Kent
Hughes (Vic.), R. F. Timson (Vic.),
B. M. Wight (Q.) and Senator J. G.
Gorton (Vic.). They flew to McMurdo
Sound in a U.S. Navy Super-Constella-
tion, planning to spend a week among
the penguins.
• •
Pictured below by Luke, George
Rowdon Howard Gill, an old boy
of Brisbane Grammar School, has
packed more than one life into his 71
years. He has had a legal life, which
began with his admission as a solicitor
in 1910, and during which, as a partner
in the firm of King and Gill, he has
been a member, and president on two
occasions, of the Queensland Law Society
-—the only solicitor to hold the office
twice —and a member of the Solicitors’
Board over a long period. He has been
an active churchman for most of his life,
has been on the Brisbane Diocesan
VERSATILITY
Council since 1932, and chairman of
committees of the Anglican Synod since
1936.
In his scholastic life he has been a
member of the faculty of law of Queens-
land University since its foundation in
1936 and a member of the council of
the Southport School since 1932. He
has had still another life —as a rowing-
man. He rowed for Queensland in the
Australian Championship eights in 1909,
is a past-president of the Australian
Rowing Council and has held the
presidency of the Queensland Rowing
Association and its successor, the Queens-
land Rowing Council, for more years
than he might care to count.
• •
Dr. Howard West Kilvington Mowll,
C.M.G., Anglican Archbishop of Sydney
and Primate of Australia, who passed
on in Sydney last Saturday, was born at
Dover (Eng.) in 1890 and graduated from
Cambridge University. After some years
as a curate at Dover he was appointed
a tutor at Wycliffe College, Toronto
(Canada), became a professor there in
1916 and dean of the college 1919-22,
having meanwhile been admitted as a
Doctor of Divinity. In 1922 he was trans-
ferred to Western China as assistant
bishop, and in 1926 was appointed bishop.
His missionary zeal took him on long
and arduous journeys through his vast
diocese, frequently through country held
by brigands or torn by civil war.
Appointed Archbishop of Sydney in 1933
(succeeding Archbishop Wright), he be-
came Primate of Australia in 1947. His
outstanding missionary quality stayed with
him throughout his Australian days,
notably evidenced in his visits back to
Asia.
• •
A premiere at North Sydney of B.P.
Australia’s documentary film “Address
Antarctica” brought together a member
of Scott’s 1910-13 expedition—Professor
T. Griffith Taylor—and three members
of Sir Douglas Mawson’s 1911-14 expedi-
ton—Captain Morton Moyes, Dr. lohn
Hunter (who’s now secretary of the
8.M.A.) and Charles F. Laseron. During
the evening D. F. Pearse (N.S.W.
manager of 8.P.) farewelled John Russell,
of Dee Why, who is leaving for his
fourth trip to Antarctica, this time to
spend 16 months at the U.S. base on
McMurdo Sound.
• a
Sketched (above, right) while on
a fleeting visit to Sydney, Dr.
Emile Victor Rieu, publisher, editor
of Penguin Classics and translator
of Homer, Virgil and the Gospels,
seems to carry about with him a
visible aura of the culture of ancient
Greece and Rome, and withal is a nice
bloke to meet. Scholar of St. Paul’s
School and of Balliol College, Oxford,
past-president of the Virgil Society, aca-
demic and literary adviser to Methuen’s,
and for a time their managing-director—
he’s been all in turn. Having enjoyed
meeting and listening to him while the
sketching was going on, present writer
ODYSSEY
finds the following (from an airmail cop>
of A Puffin Quartet of Poets) a fair sample
both of Rieu’s light-verse charm and of
Rieu's own: “Soliliquy of a Tortoise on
Revisiting the Lettuce Beds after an
Interval of One Hour While Supposed
to be Sleeping in a Clump of Blue
Hollyhocks.
One cannot have enough
of this delicious stuff!”
» •
“C.W.D.”: Archie Windeyer, another
of the legal clan (B. 10/9/’5B), was
Mayor of Deniliquin (N.S.W.) during
the 1914-15 drought when men were put
on to dig a drain in the Edwards River
to keep the town water-supply going.
An indignant wire came from the Water
Commission in Sydney: “Under what
law are you interfering with natural bed
of Edwards River?” Archie’s reply was
swift and to the point: “Under the law
of necessity—Windeyer, Mayor.”
• •
“C.R.”: Brigadier A. R. Baxter Cox,
who has passed on in Victoria, where he
had been a member of the Housing Com-
mission since 1949, was one of Westralia’s
best-known soldiers and architects. Bom
at Cue and educated at Oxford, he prac-
tised in Perth, was with the C.M.F,
between the wars, and in the second one


went as C.O. of the 2/16th Battalion and
was later Military Secretary to the Allied
Forces in the South-West Pacific. In his
peace-time profession he won the prize
for the design of Anzac House, head-
quarters of the R.S.L. in W.A., and he
was architect to the University of Wes-
tralia from 1934 to 1939.
• •
In Melbourne as the 1958 Dyason
lecturer, Basil Kingsley Martin, editor of
the “New Statesman,” is a witty 61-year-
old bachelor —of course, a tilter at wind-
mills has half-a-furlong start in the
race for a wit’s reputation. A world-wide
traveller, though this is his first visit to
Australia, he was one of the originals
of the 8.8.C.’s Brains Trust and is a
brilliant writer and individual broad-
caster. When he speaks, you may be
sure that, however carefully and elo-
quently he may examine any subject,
there’s only one conclusion he will reach
—and that will be pointing towards the
Left.
• •
Air-Vice-Marshal Ronald Lees is the
second Australian recently appointed to
a high R.A.F. post; he’s to become
Senior Air Staff Officer, Fighter Com-
mand. A New South Welshman from
Broken Hill, he was a War II fighter-
pilot and commanded a Spitfire squadron
covering the evacuation of Dunkirk.
a •
“Jachris”: Sir Gordon Trollope, Bart.,
friend of journalists and artists in Sydney
for many years—and himself a contribu-
tor of bits and pieces—had
unfortunately too short a
time to enjoy the dignity of
the hereditary title which he
had never expected to
descend to him (and which
in all those years he had not
much wanted). When a
little time ago it did come
to him he accepted it with
a certain wry disregard.
One thing, however, he did
aspire to, for family reasons
not disclosed —a tortoise-
shell cigarette-case; once
so easily obtainable, nowa-
days something of a rarity.
After weeks of searching
the city he found what he
wanted, and then gave it to
a jeweller to have the family
crest put on it. First day
he had it back he brought
it along to show his friends.
“Here it is,” he said, and
he took from his pocket a
packet of cigarettes from
which to fill it. They were
too long. “Oh, well,” said
Sir Gordon, “I should have
known you couldn’t put king-size
cigarettes into a baronet’s case.”
• •
Fremantle Trotting Club has conferred
the unusual distinction of Immediate
Past-president on 80-year-old George
Booth, one of Westralia’s best-known
owners, trainers, drivers and riders of
pacers. Booth, who’s been president and
life-member of the club for 15 years and
a committeeman for 20, is succeeded by
65-year-old Howard Porter, who as his
No. 1 reinsman used to drive pacers for
him in the 1920’5. Porter has been a
life-member and committeeman for a
long time, too, and is also a committee-
man of the W.A. Trotting Association.
• •
“J.K.D.,” a messmate in the Nimrod,
Aurora and Discovery, pays tribute to
his old leader, Sir Douglas Mawson:
Mawson was often referred to in Europe as
the Australian Nansen because of the two great
expeditions he led to that part of the South
Polar continent now known as the Australian
Dependency of Antarctica. He was one of
those rare persons that every age and race
produce, a man of vision, whose scientific
training and strength of character enabled him
to achieve much in geographical discovery.
The older generation of Australians will
remember him as a science-graduate of Sydney
University, who was subsequently appointed
first lecturer and then Professor of Geology at
the University of Adelaide —he was granted
leave by Adelaide Uni. to conduct his two
notable Antarctic expeditions. Just how much
he contributed to our knowledge of'the South
Polar regions may be found in the scientific
reports of the expeditions he led. He was
working on these reports in Adelaide until a
few weeks before his death.
• •
Around Mackay (Q.) the most popular
award in the last birthday-honors was
Malcolm Angus McPhee’s M.B.E.
McPhee himself claims that the award
was made to “Malcolm and Ginger”—
he’s a ventriloquist and Ginger’s the
other party in his act.
Both are ex-Diggers. Ginger, “born”
behind the lines in France in War I,
“MALCOLM AND GINGER”
began his career in the A.I.F. “Smart
Set” concert-party. Until the end of the
war he entertained troops in France and
England. His creator turned professional
after being discharged, and as Walter
Vernon toured Australia and New
Zealand with Fuller’s and J. C. William-
son’s. Born at Mackay in 1889, McPhee
served with the Fourth Div. Pioneers.
Talking to the Millions Club in Sydney,
Hugh Williams, director of U.N.’s infor-
mation centre in Australia and N.Z.,
tipped International Co-operation, by
Necessity out of History, as the best horse
for the world’s money in the future. Born
at Dunedin (N.Z.), Williams studied and
taught modern languages in Maoriland
and England, then worked for five years
with the European service of the 8.8. C.
He joined the U.N. secretariat in London
in 1945, spent nine years with its radio
division in New York, and came to his
present job in 1955.
• •
“Uramao”: Benmore hydroelectric
scheme, N.Z.’s largest, will be under the
superintendence of J. W. Ridley, formerly
of Timaru. Awarded an N.Z. Rhodes
Scholarship in 1946, he took honors in
engineering science at Oxford. Going
to the U.S.A., he studied under the
Tennessee Authority, and became con-
vinced that the N.Z. Government should
think about an earth dam instead of
concrete. This idea was adopted, and
Benmore will be one of the largest earth
dams in the world.
• •
First in the job, Colin G. Rankin
has been appointed administrator of
Royal Adelaide Hospital. Adelaide-born,
he began his hospital career in his home
State, was superintendent of Northfield
Mental Hospital for 10 years, then
served with 2/6 Field Ambulance and
with the medical directorate at Army
H.Q. before going to Alfred Hospital,
Melbourne, as manager in 1946. Federal
president of the Australian Institute of
'Hospital Administrators, he’s a Fellow
of the Australian Society of Accountants
and of the Chartered Institute of Sec-
retaries as well.
• «
New president of the Royal Australian
Chemical Institute, L. W. Weickhardt,
technical director of 1.C.1.A.N.Z., Ltd.,
succeeds Dr. I. W. Wark, chief of
C.5.1.R.0.’s Division of Industrial Chem-
istry. South Australian branch-president
W. H. Wainwright becomes vice-
president.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 71, Frank R. Smith, who had
looked after The Bulletin’s W.A. office since
its establishment. He joined The Bulletin
in 1905.
In Sydney, at 68, Robert Anthony Patten,
superintendent, veterinary surgeon and curator
of Taronga Park Zoo from 1936-54. Born at
Wellington (N.S.W.), he was one of the first
graduates from the Faculty of Veterinary
Science at Sydney University. He was a major
in the A.I.F.
At Dunedin (N.Z.), at 54, Dr. Horace
Emerton Hodge (“Merton Hodge”), whose
play “The Wind and the Rain” had a long
run in London. A graduate of the Otago
University School in 1928, he served at St.
George’s Hospital, London, but also found
time to write for stage and screen. After his
marriage in England he returned to practise
as a doctor in Dunedin.
In Melbourne, W. Archbold, N.S.W. general-
manager of H. C. Sleigh, Ltd. He established
the Sydney office in 1913, and altogether was
with the company 53 years.
In Melbourne, at 70, Frederick William
Lindrum, at one time world professional
billiards champion; brother of Walter.


ABORIGINALITIES
SOME STRANGE WATERHOLES
By HENRY G. LAMOND
Over the years, at one place and
another, I’ve been in touch with
some weird waters of Western
Queensland.
About 50 years ago, when I spent
many hours on its banks, I reckoned the
Corella Waterhole, at the head-station
of that name, was the only water I knew
in W.Q., off the coastal fall, which had
fresh-water turtles, or tortoises, in it.
They were there in dozens, perhaps in
hundreds, and their snake-like heads
would break the wide surface of that
hole in many places at one time.
The homestead of Corella cattle-station
was about 12 miles up the Thomson
River from the township of Jundah.
Corella was then an out-station of War-
breccan, owned by the Australian
Pastoral Company (sold later to Coward
Bros.).
Speaking from memory, and not exact
“Perfectly matched , aren't they?"
to an inch or two, the hole at Corella
may have been the best part of half-a-
mile long, about 100yds. wide, with a
depth of 20ft. or more. At that time
it was supposed to be permanent, and
no man ever boasted of seeing the mud
of its bed.
It was a noble waterhole, and quite a
worthy thing on which to build the
central settlement of a station —the home-
stead. But I couldn't find out then, and
I haven’t learned since, why it should
be singular in that it was the only one
in which tortoises made a home and
found a living.
HThose tortoises are commonly supposed
to have an almost unlimited span of
life: a couple of hundred years brings
them to a robust old age. They had
plenty of time in which to satisfy the urge
of itchy feet if they were afflicted with
the desire to travel.
The river used to run every year—
with the odd exception of a drought.
That gave them the right to wander up
and down the stream. A bit of dry land
doesn’t deter a tortoise when it has the
wanderlust —I’ve found the things,
battling bravely, a mile or more from
any water.
Why did they stick to that one water-
hole?
I’ve since learned that they have spread
a bit, and that other reaches of the river
now know them. But I still don’t know
how they got there, and why they chose
that hole in the first place.
TTere’s another “only”—or it was when
I knew it fairly well over 40 years
ago. That is the Con Hole.
That’s a famed watering-place, or it
used to be when large mobs of stock
travelled the roads, when horse-teams
were the means of conveyance west of
Winton, the terminus of the rail from
Townsville.
Elderslie homestead that famed
station formed by Sir Samuel Wilson,
which carried his brand, SW5 —was built
on the Con.
The waterhole there may have silted
a bit over the years, but it was then
supposed to be as permanent as
Gibraltar. That hole was at the junction
of Western River and Wauchingham
Creek, about seven miles up from where
they joined the Diamantina, about 45
miles west of the town of Winton, along
the road to Boulia —out where distances
are nothing, and where 100 miles or so
is the equivalent of a city block.
The Con was the only hole I knew,
off the coastal fall, which had leeches
in it. I know what leeches are. I’ve
seen them clinging to other men, their
bodies bloated with what they might
consider is tasty food. Strangely
enough, and I know not why, leeches
don’t approve of me. In the Con, or
some streams or swamps on the coastal
fall, I can wade among them for hours
and come out in blessed immunity. Ants
show a similar distaste to biting me. I
sometimes wonder what attraction my
wife saw in me.
I made a few discreet inquiries. No
leeches were ever reported in any other
hole. I use the word discreet because,
in those days, in that country, a man
seeking reasons for anything at all weird
was. regarded as something a bit weird
himself.
As a station-manager, which I was
then, I could not afford to have my
sanity questioned and brought into
doubt.
Anyway, I never heard of other leeches.
Those watercourses would run every year,
sometimes more than once, and the
slimy-ones had plenty of opportunities
to spread. I’ve heard, more-or-less
lately, they are showing indications of
moving up and down the river. But I
didn’t know then, and I don’t know
now, how they came to be in the Con.
I didn’t know whence they came, why
they preferred it to other water, what
induced them to stay there.
TJuTe’ll shift a couple of hundred miles
* * west now, doing it in one jump and
sentence.
We’ll go to Parapituri Waterhole, in
the Georgina River, north of the town
of Boulia. That is, or was, a famed
waterhole. Men used to speak of its
properties in hushed tones ; they’d grow
red in the face, hot under the collar, offer
to bet quids and lay odds if their word
was doubted.
The fame of that hole lay in the claim
that it was salty at one end and perfectly
fresh at the other. As the old bushmen
of those days would declare with
vehemence and warmth: “Salter ’an th’
sea at one end.” With just as much
strength and conviction they’d add, “An’
fresher nor rainwater at th’ other end.”
I’ll admit I never gazed upon Parapituri
or tasted its waters. I was within five
miles of it one hot afternoon. I’d
already ridden over 50 miles that day.
My horse and I were both tired (station-
managers used to do that sort of thing
in those days). I knew the old bushmen
well enough to know that, “Salter ’an
the’ sea,” meant fairly brackish ; I also
knew the same gentry would call “Fresher
nor rainwater” stuff that would also be
fairly brackish. It depended entirely
upon what were his views on the matter.
I wasn’t going to ride five miles over
loose downs, and back again, just to
verify my knowledge of old bushmen
and their views.
Parapituri, I understand, was about
three miles long. I could never find out
which end was fresh and which was
saline. I don’t think it mattered much,
anyway. It was good enough to serve
as a base of an argument and provoke
a bet.
I’m prepared to believe a lot of things,
and to accept many strange ones which
I can’t understand ; but I’ve passed the
age of fairies and witches. The river
there runs in a general direction of
south-east and north-west. The prevail-
ing winds, a feature of that country for
about nine months of the year, are from
the south-east. Even if nothing else


' ** ■
: «***’ # *7 fi,s
/& /sv
/ * u • VpVt r . *
- as <■»**■ „*"?*


took a hand, and the debbil-debbil him-
self didn’t stir it with his rake, wouldn’t
the wind mingle those waters?
Those who, like myself, have seen the
water stirred to waves which break with
foam on the bank, and have noted the
level of the water pushed back from
one end of a hole and come back in
the form of a miniature tidal-wave when
the blow drops, would give a guess and
come to the same conclusion as myself:
it would be impossible to keep one end
of the same waterhole “salter ’an th’
sea” while the other remained “fresher
nor rainwater.”
Tf the tale about Parapituri had been
that it’s fresher nor rainwater for
about nine months of the year and salter
’an th’ sea for the rest of the time, then
I’d have taken it without the needed
grain of salt.
There are several waterholes in the
bed of the Georgina, a couple of hundred
miles higher up, which possess that
peculiarity. To name but two: Waukaba
and Lake Katherine.
The first is part of the boundary be-
tween Carandotta and Walgra stations ;
the other is on Roxborough. Further
up the river there’s another hole,
Mungalo, in which the resident old bush-
man used to declare that 30,000 cattle
had bogged and died. Knowing the old
bushman’s carelessness with a naught or
two, I was prepared to admit the numbers
may have been between 300 and 3000.
We’ll deal with Waukaba, as I knew
it better and studied it more carefully.
I’m prepared to agree Lake Katherine
is similar in most respects.
It was commonly said of them: “Th’
drier th’ season th’ fuller they gets.”
There was some truth in that statement:
I’ve seen Waukaba running at the bottom
end at the finish of a dry year. I heard
of Katherine: when Walter H. Rose
was managing Roxborough an embank-
ment had to be thrown across the channel
at the bottom end to prevent the brackish
water running into the hole at the home-
stead and spoiling the domestic supply.
TX2ithout claiming a scientific know-
ledge which I don’t pretend to
possess, and judging only on what I saw
and could partly understand, this,
roughly, is what I think takes place:
We’ll assume the river has run early
in the year as ordained by J. Pluvius
and the late Inigo Jones. It will have
stopped about the end of March. All
holes are full. The water in Waukaba
—the whole 16 miles of it, and about
50yds. wide—would be as all other
waters were: dirty brown, slightly opaque
or semi-transparent, whichever term suits
best. It would be reckoned good
drinking-water. It abounded in fish —
yellow-bellies, black-bream, jews and
occasional bony-bream.
No crayfish! The waters of the
Georgina are the only ones I know in
Queensland, interior and coastal, which
have no yabbies. Tons, and millions
of specks, of transparent shrimps ; but
no crays. Strangely enough, the waters
100 miles or so lower down teem with
yabbies. That’s another unsolved mystery
I don’t try to explain.
The water in Waukaba remains as
other waters in other holes: it retains
its muddy color ; it gradually recedes ;
it remains good stuff to drink, and quite
tasteless. If there’s no rain in the mean-
time, and there usually isn’t, and if the
river doesn’t run again, then Waukaba
starts to change with the coming of
summer. (I suppose spring would be
correct, but in that country there are
only winter and summer.) About
October or thereabouts, when the herd-
bulls come out of their secret hiding-
places in the gidyea, where they’ve
hibernated during the cold months, the
waters of Waukaba feel the call: they
drop their suspended silt; they clarify;
they have a metallic transparency which
j s almost akin to seawater.
The tasfg subtly changes also> A man
living on it doesn’t notice the change—
it’s so gradual. But if a man isn’t there
for a month or more, and if he arrives
with a thirst and an empty waterbag,
that Waukaba water rasps his throat as
it goes down —it’s so hard and harsh.
It is so salty it doesn’t satisfy: the man
has to drink more and more until his
stomach rebels in protest.
What has happened? I’d say, and
this is only a guess, some supplies of
underground water have opened their
taps and started to flow. They may
have been oozing all the time. It is the
diminution of natural water in Waukaba
which allows those new supplies to make
themselves noticed.
That dry area is a weird country for
water. I’ve tested a supply in a well
which was less than 35ft. deep. An
engine pumping at the rate of more than
6000 gals. an hour couldn’t reduce the
level. I know another place, in the
middle of a claypan about five miles
wide, miles out from the river, no other
water within touch, and the ’roos had
scraped a hole about 2ft. deep to tap a
stream which was there in the driest
months. I heard of a man watering a
team of 30 working-bullocks at it, using
a canvas trough.
Anyone can have a guess at Waukaba’s
font. I’ve had mine. The ducks,
pelicans and other birds don’t worry
about the change in the quality of the
water; the fish seem to be as sportive
as ever; the cattle and horses enjoy it
and shed their winter coats as an indica-
tion of well-being and good health. If
they don’t worry, why should we?
* * * *
“Alma”: A pleasant change from the
usual run of “Weona” and “Dunromin”
is the name a settler in north-west N.S.W.
has given his place ; the notice down on
the main road directs you with clarity
and simplicity to “Overdraft.”
* * * *
“William Harleon”: Attendants at a
Kalgoorlie (W.A.) drive-in picture-
theatre were goggle-eyed when a sulky
with three occupants entered. The horse
was hitched to the standard, the speaker
coupled, and the three sat back to enjoy
the show. The horse promptly went to
sleep . . .
* * * *
“Warwick D.”: Asked a Darling
Downs (Q.) cocky, who had just returned
from a holiday at Surfers’ Paradise, what
he thought of it. “Ought to call the place
‘Shearers’ Paradise,’ ” he said. “Mostly
bare-bellied ewes you see there!”
* * * *
“Ardoyne”: Children attending the
Echuca (Vic.) State School, which has
just celebrated its centenary, shared a
901 b. cake that contained 301 b. of mixed
fruit, nine-dozen eggs and a bottle of
rum. The outboard motor used to cream
the butter and sugar and beat the eggs
can now be distinguished from other
motors in its proper element because it
goes “batter-batter-batter” instead of
“put-put-put.”


Conversation-piece between two pros-
pectors at a wayback shanty pub:
“Come out and have a look over me
claim. If I'm not at the hut just kick
the door open and walk in and make
yourself at home.”
“What! No handle on the door?”
“Yair, but y’ won’t be cornin’ empty-
handed, will y’?”
D. B. H.
* * * *
“M’Lou”: Along the 1000-mile stretch
of bitumen between Alice Springs and
Darwin there is, say motorists in those
parts, an average of 40 dead-marines
to the mile. But some of our Victorian
roads can easily beat this. A farmer
who travelled on his tractor 15 miles
into Horsham counted just under 1000
(over 60 to the mile) empty bottles
along the road. And one mile of a
local side-road I prospected for a bottle-
drive yielded six-dozen empty beer-
bottles!
* * * *
“Snobby”: Rams in good condition
can be induced to fight at the drop of
the hat, especially Merinos. Their natural
sporting instincts can be aroused instantly
by smacking two bits of board together.
That’s the gong for the first round, and
the first collision of horns will trigger-off
a mass-display of stoush —in pairs,
doubling-up or any old how at all.
ijc
“Kelms”: Kangaroo-meat is dressed
and packed at a Fremantle meatworks
for export to Germany, where it’s re-
garded as a luxury. But evidently it s
very strong to the Teutonic palate —any-
way, a trial shipment of enough tails
to make 10,000 tins of soup was stretched-
out to make a million tins.
* * =i *
“Acombe”: Though a tank full of
rainwater could never get hot enough,
even on a 120-deg. day, to scald anyone
who hopped into it (B. 1/10/”58), the
boiled-lobster look may easily be
acquired in a tank to which water is
piped from a dam. If the connecting
pipes happen to extend for a few
hundred yards and are laid above ground,
on a scorching day the water flowing
into the tank will acquire a pelt-peeling
heat. Our bathroom-tank was once
operated like that, and we had to cool
the water in a tub for an hour before
it could be used.
* * * *
“Honi Pikau”: I had been to the
Porangi races, and at the railway junc-
tion after the last race passengers were
having their tickets examined by an
inspector. That was when I saw my old
cobber, Henare Waipiro, carrying in both
arms the biggest watermelon I’ve ever
seen. Placing the melon on the ground
Henare created a jam by hunting in all
his pockets for the elusive ticket, which
he eventually and triumphantly pro-
duced from his potai (hat). Picking-up
the biggest watermelon in the world, he
admonished the inspector and the world
at large with: “Anyone would tink I
titn’t have a pruttie ticket —too much ret
trape!”
* # * »
“Sanasi”: The corruption of native
placenames which has been so marked
in Australia doesn't obtain in Papua-
“Mum Wants you to lend her a bit of sugar at ten per cent, interest .”
New Guinea, where almost every
European uses the standard R.G.S. II
System for the orthography, and every-
body understands what everybody else
has written. Broadly speaking, the vowels
are pronounced as in Italian and the
consonants as in English. Thus, the
vowels a, e, i, o and u become respec-
tively ah, eh (as in benefit), ee, o (as in
mote) and oo (as in boot). All vowels
are sounded, our “I (eye)” is ai. Put a
New Zealander, a white resident of
Papua, a Frenchman, an Italian and an
educated Papuan in a choir, and they
could all bellow out a Maori hymn with-
out any of them knowing what the words
meant!
* * * *
“Myall”: So far, the Queensland
Government is fighting a losing battle
with the cactus Harrisia martinii, intro-
duced from the Argentine as a pot-plant
some years ago. Although many
different hormone and other costly sprays
have been tried, only one —arsenic-
pentoxide—has been at all effective, and
this needs to be applied up to six times
to achieve a kill. About 200,000 acres
are reckoned to be infested around
Collinsville, about 60,000 acres seriously.
The cactus, which has appeared in other
districts hundreds of miles apart, is most
tenacious —one specimen has been kept
indoors for two years without soil, water
or sunlight, yet still flourishes. Forming
a dense mass which cattle cannot pene-
trate, and with long, rope-like spine-
covered fronds, it poses a greater menace
than prickly-pear in Queensland’s stand-
ing scrub, where it thrives. A leading
biologist is going to the Argentine in
search of an insect that might eradicate
it, as the cactoblastis did the pear.
* * * *
“Kinta”: An elderly couple I know
own a small terrier they call Mickey,
although “he” is a female. Curious, I
asked why, “Because, dear,” said the
lady earnestly, “we’ve never told him
he’s a girl.”
* * * *
Tt wouldn’t take a Sherlock
Holmes more than a week or two of
intensive ratiocination to find out which
settlers developed the district served by
the little branch-railway which starts
from Cotton Vale, near Warwick (Q.).
The seven stations on the line are
Fleurbaix, Fozieres, Bullecourt, Passchen-
daele, Bapaume, Messines and Amiens.
The once-a-week service chuffs over the
12-mile journey in two hours flat,
“stopping as required to pick-up and set
down passengers.”


J. T. HARRY & DIXON
(Eric E. Dixon, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
113 Pitt St.,
Sydney
Telephone: BL 1987
Tel. Add.: “Harry Stock Exchange,” Sydney
DAVIS, ROTHWELL & CO.
(Incorporating Headlam, Hewson & Co.}
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
{Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange .)
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BL, 1855 (3 lines)
110 I/Orda Place, Orange
Orange 4054
Telegraphic an<l Cable Address, “BETEP/’ Sydney.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Shares and Prices
TPhe recovery in the Aus-
tralian sharemarket follow-
ing the somewhat sensational
dip of a fortnight ago now
gives most investors a chance
to study the general position
and to make-up their minds
about what to do about their
holdings.
It is true that some of the
market leaders are still down a
fair way from their 1958 peak,
but in most cases they still give
a low yield at present price-
and div.-levels.
Those people who have held
their shares for a year of two
will still be able to show a
good profit, in the case of most
favored stocks, even if they sell
at present reduced prices. But
those who paid the peak prices
of the past couple of months
will usually see a depreciation
of their market-values. These
latecomers, however, will be in
the minority.
Developments in Australia
and overseas make arresting
reading each day. Though
there has been an upward ten-
dency in metal prices, and wool
has shown some signs of steady-
ing in its downward dip, there
is no clear line discernible in the
economic outlook at present.
It is unlikely that world com-
modity prices are completely
through with their downs-and-
ups. That eventually they will
recover is certain. But
recovery is likely to take a con-
siderable time, with fluctuations
in between.
The pattern formed by the
annual reports for 1957-58 of
Australian companies is now
becoming clearer, and it is
much as was indicated here
before the end of the financial
year. It is a patchy pattern,
and since the end of the
financial period (four months
of the new term has now run)'
the patchiness seems to have
become more marked.
There is still a hangover from
the drought of last summer,
and the effect of lower prices
for land products, including
metals, is now extending
through the economy at a more
perceptible rate.
Output from the extended
capacity of many manufactur-
ing plants has now caught-up
with demand, and Holden cars
and station - sedans (for
example) may now be bought
off the floor. Holden sales con-
tinue to expand each month,
but it is likely that the availa-
bility of the vehicles will affect
the sales of other cars and
utilities.
This increase in the supply of
popular products (outside the
motor-trade as well) is likely
to make the going harder for
other manufacturers in not
such a popular position.
Shortage of overseas cur-
rency may later on prompt a
cut in imports generally, and
this may stimulate Australian
production. There are some
self-balancing factors in nearly
every economic readjustment.
But internal measures can pro-
duce no shortcut answer to the
very real fall in our export in-
come. Until prices and markets
recover overseas we shall be
confronted with very difficult
problems that will affect some
industries quite severely and
nearly all other industries to a
lesser degree. And merely by
making credit more readily
available the problem will not
be solved. It is basically a long-
term problem of increasing our
productive efficiency.
The Price of Gold
[From George F. Davidson]
YX/ashington’s rigid stand in
keeping the price of gold
unchanged in a changing
world at New Delhi (where
the world’s bankers are in con-
ference) calls to mind a pre-
cedent, a similar blunder by
the United States’ Treasury
in 1869 which paved the way
for the financial panic of 1873
followed by five years of black
depression.
Gold does not change, but
its monetary value changes
much and differently in dif-
ferent countries. In England
gold was worth £1 an ounce
fine when sterling was intro-
duced over a thousand years
ago, whereas it is £l2 10s.
(sterling) now. Gold is still
the yardstick in international
circles for measuring the rela-
tive values of the different
currencies of the globe. But
inside each country the real
value of the monetary unit is
the human factor: how much
of a man’s effort it commands
(or wages). By this measure
the American dollar today is
one-third of what it was in
1939, before Hitler’s War
started.
In 1869 the great captain
of industry Jay Gould tried
to raise the price of gold in
New York. He had perceived
what was wrong—the Civil
War had reduced the value of
the dollar to less than half —
and thought that the most sen-
sible step to take was to recog-
nise the fact by letting the
price of gold rise somewhat.
There was no need to double
it nor to push it up: it would
gravitate if constraint were
relaxed.
The Government had
adopted high import-duties
(Tariff Act of 1864) in
preference to devaluation, and
the value of the dollar was
ultimately re-established.
Specie-payments had been sus-
pended in 1861 and were re-
sumed on January 1, 1879.
This strengthening of a mone-
tary unit is. unique and it took
17 years. The country was
young, rich and buoyant.
On September 24, 1869,
Gould's attempt to raise the
price of gold was crushed by
the Treasury deliberately
throwing gold on the market.
It is of interest that the
indemnity paid by France to
Prussia in thalers played a part
in causing the panic of 1873
in the U.S.A. This huge sum,
five-thousand-million francs,
equivalent to 47,000,000 ounces
of fine gold, was paid by
September 5, 1872, an astonish-
ing feat, as the treaty had been
signed only on May 10, 1871.
Some of the money went to
buy the low-priced Govern-
ment bonds in the U.S.A.,
in the knowledge that they
would be redeemed in gold, and
the influx of this “hot” money
helped to lift the value of
the American dollar.
There was a famous “Black
Friday,” May 9, 1873, which
shook the Stock Exchanges of
Berlin and Vienna, so profits
were taken from investments
in the U.S.A. and the money
repatriated to Central Europe.
On September 17, 1873, the
New York banking-firm of Jay
Cooke and Co. failed. The New
York Stock Exchange was
closed from September 20 to
September 30, 1873. Prolonged
bad times followed.
The price of gold had been
raised in the U.S.A. by 7 p.c.
in 1834, and was not reduced
when the glut of new produc-
tion came along after 1849.
It was again raised in 1934,
this time by 69 p.c., the most
vital step taken to cure the
slump by recognising the
change in the value of the
dollar through the financial
strain of the Kaiser’s War.
Nothing like that has been
done yet to offset the effect
of Hitler’s War. Farm pro-
ducts in America are now at
such low prices that they have
to be artificially supported by
Washington. That would not
be necessary if the price of
gold were allowed to find its
natural level in the U.S.A.
Sir Arthur Fadderi is in a
position to know that the low
prices for wool, lead, zinc and
other primary products of ours
are due to the U.S.A. holding
the price of gold too low.
U.S.A. has “cornered” the
world’s moveable gold and will
make a profit by doing what
is overdue and for the benefit
of world trade. She is not
being asked for favors. Other
countries will follow America's
lead if she will keep in step
with the times: they can raise
their prices for gold so as to
keep the rates of foreign ex-
change as they are now.
Britain set the example in 1949
by raising her price of gold
by 44 p.c. without causing in-
flation, but that only went half-
way to post-war stability. She
can hardly go further until the
U.S.A. does her share.
The whole world is waiting
for America to act sensibly.


Cabe York
\
QUtbNSMNty
*
\
★
'V'
NEW SOUTH WALES /
*
VICTORIA
. ijw
Portland**"*
"From
Cepe York
to
Portland"-
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
done provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Norman J. Carson,
C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton; P. s. Vine, C.M.G.
General Manager: John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams!
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and Riverina*
S. L. G. MacDonald, Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Dearmonth.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman)*
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman) 1
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.; Bertram
,1. F. Wright, M.8.E.; R. A. Irish; Duncan N. Mathieson.
Manager: A. B. Tilemann. Assistant Manager: A, G. W*
Dent. Pastoral Inspector: Prank Laird. District Repre-
sentative for Newcastle: H. B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Chairman)*
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon*
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenreley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Charleville.
UT23a
PROSPECT FOR AUSTRALIA
By SIR DOUGLAS COPLAND
[From an address at the luncheon of the eleventh annual
convention of the Australian Junior Chamber of Commerce—
October 21, 1058.]
Time-span of Change
Tn the world of today the
A vision of the future must
inevitably place security at a
discount as the ultimate goal
of human endeavor, and
especially for a young country
like Australia, developing its
estate in a world that was
never . more challenging than
is that of today.
For one thing, we have the
great increase in population
due to the modern pheno-
menon of “death-control.”
There is every prospect that
the peoples of the world will
double before the end of this
century, and much of the in-
crease will take place among
our near-neighbors to the
north. To match this prospect,
growth must be our watch-
word. Then we have the new
alignment of political power
in a tripartite world the
Western world, the Communist
world and the underdeveloped
world.
This presents a new problem
for all countries, especially for
those which formerly occupied
a position of authority, or
were associated with those who
did exercise authority. For
Australia it involves quite
fundamental changes in exter-
nal relations, and particularly
a new look at our relations
with our Asian neighbors, both
in the underdeveloped group
and in the Communist group.
At the same time, the rate
of technological change is
vastly greater than it has been
at any time in human history,
and this inevitably means that
fortune favors the brave. This
is the milieu in which Aus-
tralia must work and live and
develop a policy that will com-
mand the respect of the outer
world, and particularly of our
populous neighbors with the
wisdom of ages upon them.
The modern world is one in
which the time-span of change
has greatly shortened and the
time-span of life greatly
lengthened. At no time in
history have these rates of
change combined to produce
such dynamic forces as is the
case today. It follows that
basic policy in Australia, both
internal and external, must be
moulded by these forces if it
is to keep pace with develop-
ments in a rapidly changing
world.
Population and Development
there are
forces at work in Australia
that seem likely to impel us to
chart the right course. There
is little doubt that the immi-
gration policy, the Snowy
Mountains project, the Col-
ombo Plan and an expanding
public-works policy developed
in the early post-war years,
have laid the foundations for
expansion and for basic ad-
justments in the national out-
look to meet the challenge of
the new situation.
If we look at the population-
structure it will be clear that
there is no alternative but to
sustain growth. In recent
years the Australian rate of
growth has been one of the
highest in the world, with
investment as a percentage of
gross national product around
25 per cent.
Until recently there were
many official voices bewailing
the inflationary impact of this
pressure on resources, and
ignoring the real basis on
which the high rate of develop-
ment was being sustained.
Thus in the past eight years
nearly three-quarters of the
total public-works programme
has been financed in Australia
from current taxation. With-
out this high rate of public-
works construction it would
not have been possible for
private enterprise to develop
as rapidly as it did, simply
because the resources of power
and fuel, water-supply and irri-
gation, transport, education
and health facilities would not
have been available. Public
investment provides for frame-
work in which a modern mixed
economy develops at rising
social standards.
What of the immediate
future?
In a little over a decade
ahead we can expect our popu-
lation to grow by not less than
25 per cent., but owing to the
high post-war birthrate and the
immigration policy, the work-
force will increase by not less
than 35 per cent. This is an
asset, but it will not be fully
used unless a high rate of
development is sustained.
The age-group 15-19 will in-
crease by about 75 per cent.,
and if we are to give these
teenagers advanced training in
the right numbers we may ex-
pect the attendance at secon-
dary schools and technical col-
leges to double in a little over
a decade.
Then there is the group 20-
24, which will increase by over
80 p.c. This will mean a great
increase in the marriage-rate.
In turn this means more homes
and all the facilities that go
with them. Thus it becomes
clear that the prospect is for
an even greater rate of ex-
pansion in the decade ahead
than was the case in the past
decade. It is not too much
to claim that Australia faces
perhaps its most glorious
decade, with the adventure of


TOST
EAST
THIS WAY’S BEST!
8 flights weekly
ground the world
Circle the globe with the sun, or travel
round the other way—B.O.A.C.-QANTAS
is the best way to go.
Offering a choice of eight weekly flights,
the 8.0.A.C.-QANTAS round-the-world
route via Australia enables you to fly
directly between San Francisco and New
York without changing airlines.
With four flights weekly in each direction,
your round-the-world timetable is easy to
arrange.
See your 8.0.A.C.-QANTAS travel agent.
Ask him to tell you about Tourist Travel
at a saving of over 20%.
THE WOIIO-WIOE 4IRUNI
with QANTAi
vsszszar
development the watchword of
progress.
.
Problem of Education
Tn the last 10 years attendance
at primary schools has in-
creased greatly and the total
expenditure on education in
relation to national income has
also risen ; thus in 1948-1949
expenditure on education was
1.4 p.c. of national income. In
1958 it was 2.1 p.c. of national
income. This is an increase
in the real level of expenditure
on education of no less than
50 p.c. At the same time there
is plenty of evidence to show
that it is not enough, and,
further, that the events of the
next decade, or a little more,
will impose a further severe
strain upon the whole educa-
tional structure,
This is due in the first place
to the increase in the teenage
group and the increasing need
for more technical training.
It is not too much to say that
the numbers attending secon-
dary schools and technical col-
leges will need to double by
1970.
A similar problem concerns
the universities, and was in-
deed stated clearly by the Vice-
Chancellors’ Committee as
long ago as 1951. Little had
been done about it until the
Murray Commission reported
last year. Despite the evidence
of growth, we have the spec-
tacle of a great university like
that of Melbourne having to
impose a ceiling on its admis-
sions to certain faculties.
This is done in a time of
great expansion and challenge
from abroad, and of the
increasing need for more and
more high-level training. Yet
this seems to pass by in the
community with little sense
of shame. Few people are
really aware of it, but every-
body knows the case of Pro-
fessor Orr!
You might well ask which
is the more important problem
for Australia. The simple fact
is that we need a plan for
educational development as
well as for housing if we are
to provide for the two vital
factors affecting the skill and
character of our people, namely
better and adequate education
and more homes.
Time-lag in Ideas
To profit by the opportunity
offered by both internal
and external conditions it wiil
be necessary for our time-lag
in ideas to match the time-lag
in change. This is the Achilles-
heel of unimaginative people.
I have said nothing of the
frontier of technological
advances in primary and secon-
dary industries, or of the pros-
pect opened up by the new
mineral discoveries. There is
here wide scope for employ-
ing our expanding work-force
and laying the foundations for
continued expansion.
But all this needs “a vision
of the future” and a plan of
action to ensure success. Aus-
tralia has adequate government
machinery to evolve an
adequate overall plan in the
agencies establised by the
Commonwealth and State
Governments, but it is farcical
to think that the Loan Council
meets to wrangle over the funds
that are collected in taxes or
subscribed in loans rather than
to evolve a long-term plan on
the known facts, and to deal
with problems that can be
solved only by co-operation
among the authorities con-
cerned.
Above all, Australia needs a
positive fiscal policy that will
ensure the desired rate of public
investment for an expanding
economy. The more construc-
tive this policy, and the more
agreement there is that all the
people should contribute to it,
the more will it bring satis-
faction as an achievement to a
generation building for the
future of Australia, and the
more will it command the res-
pect of friend and foe abroad.
But it needs faith —' pure-ey’d
faith” —and leadership based
upon a plan of action that will
enable the goals set by faith to
be attained.
A Positive Policy
Ouch an internal policy could
be supported by an exter-
nal policy based upon a broader
conception of the Colombo
Plan, in which Australia to its
credit took the initiative. If
the Western world as a whole
adopted a plan of action under
which aid in all its forms to the
underdeveloped world, through
the United Nations or the
Colombo Plan or other
agencies, was stepped up to,
say, a level of half of one per
cent, of the national income of
the contributing countries, new'
hope would be extended to the
underdeveloped world in its
aspiration to modernise its
economic structure, and offer
its rapidly-growing population
some slight advance in deplor-
ably low living-standards.
Some will say that this is a
visionary and illusory ideal,
but if it is examined it will be
seen that it is quite practical
for those who have the faith,
that it will ensure an expanding
world economy in which those
who contribute will participate
as will those who receive, and
that it will raise the prestige of
the Western world at a time
when it is being challenged
by another world of growing
Power.
The way to victory in all
things is to show what we
stand for, and not to dwell too
much on what we are against.
If Communism is to be counter-
acted as a force threatening the
uncommitted world, the
Western world, with its larger
resources, can do at least as
much by example as by undue
devotion to containment..
So we may take courage in a
positive policy, both internal
and external, that will contri-
bute to constructive achieve-
ment within Australia, to
building a progressive economy
capable of growth at rising
living-standards, and to estab-
lishing a fruitful nexus with
our neighbors on which endur-
ing relations of mutual respect
can be developed.
Such a course would revive
the pioneer spirit, and enable
us once more to profit by the
motto that sustained our
explorers: “The land is better
further on.”




SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
it made precisely the contrast
Orff must have wanted.
The little song about the
roasted swan on the spit was
sung by Janice Hearn. Usually
a counter-tenor does it, and the
sound is lugubrious in the
extreme. Miss Hearn acted
it so well, though, that people
“Carolina Burana”
Carl Orff's “Carmina
Burana” is something of a hit
among modern choral pieces,
and is one that musicians are
apt to admire for its freshness
or despise for its lack of
subtlety. The poems are by
the eccentric wandering
scholars of the Middle Ages,
who combined rascal and saint/
with a gift for poetry. Orff has I
chosen songs of spring, of love 1
and of the tavern for his can- |
tata, and his music suits very
well their earthy sensuousness.
There is nothing complex in
the music, with its unison
choruses, raucous shouts and
frequent oompah bass (to use
Vaughan Williams’s phrase).
Much of the time the tunes
could be beer-hall songs, and
good ones at that. This means
that they are entertaining at first
hearing, but after a time they
fail to wear well because the
novelty does not last.
A Brisbane performance by
the Queensland State and
Municipal Choir and the
Queensland Orchestra did full
justice to Orff. Norman
Chinner conducted, and he had
just the right kind of gusty
personality to make the choir
sing as though they were
seasoned tipplers. The lustier
the tune, the more energy they
found, with fine strong singing
as a result. Stewart Harvey was
the dicing abbot, and struck
the main note of bitterness and
disillusion of the work (“I am
swept away like a pilotless
ship”). His baritone had the
necessary manly ring to ex-
press the feelings of the cynical
abbot torn by the temptations
of greed and the flesh, and
fearing the hand of fate.
Every so often the music
strikes a thread of pure gold,
and amid the bawdiness comes
a touch of genius. The soprano
part is uniformly interesting,
and Marjorie Conley had a
lightness of touch that added
to its charm. She broke in
upon the mixed choirs after a
particularly lascivious burst of
song with a tone so pure that
“Hullo, George—l thought you’d be on TV tonight !”
laughed and none of the fun
was lost.
There was also a small but
effective part for a boys’ choir,
taken by lads from the Bris-
bane Church of England
Grammar School. Their diction
was so clear that the Latin
could be followed with scarcely
a glance at the text. A second
song combined the boys with
baritone and full chorus.
Musically delightful, it was
completely out of balance and
made no effect at all because
of the peculiar acoustic pro-
perties of the hall. Brisbane
musicians now turn longing
eyes on a new concert-hall
which is nearly finished. It
should be the best in the land
and a change from the present
stuffy echo-chamber.
D.J.M.
* ♦♦♦ ■*
“Peter Grimes”
With a musical score geared
to emphasise the main points
of a pretty grim tale rather
than to assert itself as isolated
music, the Elizabethan Theatre
Trust Opera Company struck
happy ground in Benjamin
Britten’s “Peter Grimes” at
Her Majesty’s, Melbourne.
Everyone concerne d—
singers, musicians, producer
Robin Lovejoy and musical
director Karl Rankl —strove to
beat Britten’s drum. In this
production we were not dis-
tracted by aggressive sets, we
were not confused by over-
exuberant acting, and we were
not asked to imagine things
vaguely suggested on stage.
Everything was done with re-
hearsed precision, with clean
skill and with vital intelligence.
Benjamin’s story is of a
pathetically cruel and sensitive
fisherman, Peter Grimes, who
seems to be in the grip of
some unknown, unwanted
demon. He is the cause of the
death of two boy apprentices,
yet somehow he excites pity.
He destroys the things he most
wants and loves. He is
obsessed with ambition and
self - pity. Eventually he
suicides.
The action of the opera takes
place in a small fishing-village
—vividly recreated on stage
by Lovejoy—on the East Coast
of England. This village is
peopled with sundry characters
who watch and comment on
Grime s’s mounting mis-
demeanors.
With a magnificent, tower-
ing phrase near the conclusion
of the first scene of the first
act, Ronald Dowd, as Grimes,
allays any fears that Britten’s
music is “of the head only ’
and has not the power to move.
The rest of Britten’s music
is full of tense moments, storm,
anger f lashing rain, etc., yet for
some reason he is rarely able
to progress in terms of melody
and refrain. His inventiveness
enables him to achieve atmos-
phere, but little else. In fact,
deprived of the action on
stage, the opera would most
likely prove musically boring.
There were few weaknesses
in the large number of minor
characters—though some of
the small-part singers could
have brought more strength
and color to their parts. The
choruses were dramatically
emphatic and incisive.
Rankl’s direction squeezed
some excellent tone from the
Victorian Symphony Orches-
tra, and Lovejoy's production,
scenery and costumes, though
fairly orthodox, were clearly
the results of much imagina-
tion and forethought.
Ronald Dowd led the sing-
ing cast with a fine, sustained
performance, and Ellen
Orford, as the elusive, sympa-
thetic lady in his life, had
qualities of controlled warmth
and accuracy in all her work.
♦♦♦ ♦> ♦>
“Free as Air”
This is a toothy, grinning
musical by the concoctors of
“Salad Days,” which enjoyed
record runs and filled theatre-
managers’ hearts with happi-
ness throughout Austr a lj a
recently. The concoctors,
Julian Slade and Dorothy
Reynolds, found success in the
formula they adopted, perhaps
created, for “Salad Days,” and
they use it again in “Free as
Air,” though not so success-
fully.
Melbourne Princess, how-
ever, is likely to be packed for
quite some time hence, judging
by the response of the opening-
night audience. The main
excellence of “Free as Air” is
not so much in what is done
but in how it’s done. Mr.
Garnet Carroll and his stage-
director, Stanley Willis-Croft,
have assembled an admirable
collection of talented enter-
tainers. Their production went
without a serious hitch, and
the entertainers never put a
foot out of place, nor did they
hit a note not required by the
not - overimaginative musical
score.
Everything is entertaining.
The musical is based on an
entertainingly unreal story
about a lovely miss, Geraldine
Melford (Judy Banks), who is
heir to a fortune and dislikes
the accompanying publicity.
She is chased by the press and
an unwanted admirer to the
island of Terhou, in the Eng-
lish Channel. There she finds
a queer lot of people and runs
into the inevitable handsome


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LLOYD WOLSELEY GEORGE late of
64 Loft us Street Fairfield and 73 Guild-
foi'd Road Guildford. —TAKE NOTICE
that EILEEN MARIA GEORGE has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3290 of
1958 on the ground of desertion for
three years and upwards and is asking
for the exercise of the Court’s discretion
under Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matri-
monial Causes Act 1899-1958 If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Mint Build-
ing Macquarie Street Sydney by 2nd
December 1958 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from GILBERT
CHARLTON MURDOCH, Solicitor, of
133 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
BALD PATCHES
Hair grown secret formula
Sacred Eastern Oils. Rarely
fails. Treats Alopecia. Leading
broadcaster’s hair grown after
years of Baldness. Effective
treatment for dandruff (Basic
cause of nearly all hair sick-
ness), and stops falling hair.
My herbal treatment restores
grey hair to original colour.
Not a dye—not injurious, not
obvious. Names given of lead-
ing citizens (with their per-
mission) who gratefully testify.
My treatment used in privacy
of your home.
For free advice write—
MRS. A. EASTON,
Box 5204, G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE
HE HAS A
RUPTUR
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The KBO - BAR-
KERB acta like
a hand when
placed flat upon
the orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, control
your hernia with comfort and
security. It cannot be displaced by
violent movement and has proved
completely successful by all who
have tried it.
Write today for Free Literature
Barrere Distribution Company
Dept. 3y, 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
young man, handsomely played
by Frederick Parslow. From
this point on, the unexpected
expectedly crops-up, usually
with hilarious results.
The assurance and fine sing-
ing style of Judy Banks high-
lights the show from more
than one angle.
+♦♦
Spanish Dancers
Pending the arrival of the
Maori dance at the Comedy,
Melbourne enjoyed a second
dose of the Spanish dance, this
time at Her Majesty’s, on the
opposite side of Exhibition
Street. The applause of the
packed house was almost as
electric as the dancing of the
Spaniards, which actually
seemed to have increased in
passion, dramatic intensity and
rhythmic thunder since the last
visit. The more subtle art of
Luisillo kept the audience spell-
bound in “Blood on the Moon,”
a ballet without music, and
Teresa Amaya gave an extra-
ordinary performance in “The
Prisoner,” danced with Luisillo.
♦♦♦
“The Happy Time”
Barry Zietsch’s production,
at the Pocket Playhouse
(Sydney), catches most of the
wit, earthiness and good sense
of this compact comedy about
an ingenuous French-Canadian
boy (Geoffrey Taylor) growing
to manhood with the help and
example of his all-too-human
family.
To his gentle musician father
(John Cooper) manhood is “an
understanding of love and
truth”; to his frankly sexual
grandfather (Robert Findlay)
it is “knowing how to use the
heart, the mind and the glands
together correctly”; and the
comedy flows from his inno-
cent and puzzled search for
such understanding.
He learns much about love
from the example of his
womanising uncle (John Hum-
phries), who is finally subdued
by the new maidservant (Jean
McCristal); and more about
truth from his father, his
Scottish mother (Judith Wines)
and his wine-soaked uncle
(Kenneth Marshall).
The acting was generally
competent, its chief fault an
occasional awkwardness in
handling the peculiar dialogue.
Tongues sometimes tripped on
the French-constructed English,
and heavily dipthonged the
common French words and
expressions with which it is
sprinkled. Those sill-voo-plays
and mercee-monamees! A little
expert coaching here would
strengthen many of the wittier
lines.
A couple of scenes, chiefly
those beginning off-stage and
bursting into comic sight, were
weakened by overemphasis;
some others, chiefly the earlier
ones, by the actors too
obviously doing what they had
been told to do.
But the play is packed like an
egg with good things, and
most of them came through
alive and intact. The nostalgic
1920’s atmosphere—tight coats,
Charleston frocks, knicker-
bockers and Victrola was
neatly managed.
J. A.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Meet Mr. Callaghan”
This, by the Imperial Play-
house at Mosman Town Hall,
is the first time we’ve met Mr.
Peter Cheyney in stage-form,
and, everything considered, it
adds-up to as pleasant and as
busy a drop of excitement as
his Lemmy Caution and Slim
Callaghan books.
Mr. Callaghan belongs to the
tough, broke, hard - talking
school of private-eyes who pull
the rabbit out of the hat with
complicated ingenuity; in this
case there are five bunnies in
the topper —the beautiful step-
daughter and the four unsavory
nephews of a wealthy old
character who is bumped-off a
few minutes before the girl
calls on Mr. Callaghan to tell
him that her fiance (one of the
nephews) is afraid that she is
likely to be framed for the
murder of the old chap. Mr.
Callaghan goes through his
rabbits as smartly as a fox-
terrier and produces his man
with that “I-was-on-to-him-all-
the-time” flourish that is the
despair of cops, crooks and
readers alike.
The piece has been neatly
adapted for the stage by
Gerald Verner, all the action
taking place in Callaghan’s
office without any sense of
restriction; director Frank
Allden goes through it with
commendable briskness; and
Jack London, handling the
main role with an easy, com-
fortable style, gets good sup-
port from Betty Parsons,
Robert Moylan, Bill Doughty
and Keith Goddard.
Arthursts
Sydney Art
With at least 400 new pic-
tures up for inspection, not
counting some hundreds still
surviving from the previous
week, Sydney art imposes on
the reviewer an enormous task
of simplification ; and if you
take it right down to essentials
it is tempting to say that at
David Jones’ there is a most
charming little landscape of
“Early Spring,” by Miriam
Moxham; at the Macquarie
Galleries there is a presumably
early landscape by Douglas
Dundas, “The Road to Gun-
dagai,” brimming with light
and heat and atmosphere ; and
that at the Clune Galleries there
is Frank Hodgkinson’s “The
Perpetual.”
But, amongst the 400, a few
more pictures do manage to
make themselves perceptible.
The David Jones’ show is a
mixed exhibition of over 200
paintings at 10 guineas or
under —notably George Law-
rence’s “House at Hunter’s
Hill,” Arthur Murch’s “Valley
Rocks,” George Duncan's
“River, Ber r i m a,” Mary
Brady’s flowers and many
other charming small paintings
obviously too numerous to
mention.
The Macquarie Galleries
exhibition is also mixed and,
comprising larger works, con-
siderably more forceful.
Elaine Haxton is very bright
and gay in “Spring Day,” Her-
bert Flugelman alert in
“Landscape,” Clifton Pugh
very dramatic if a bit posterish
in a landscape with crows;
and it is pleasing once again
to see the solidity and fidelity
of William Salmon’s paddocks
of gumtrees.
Frank Hodgkinson, flower-
ing alone and unmixed at the
Clune Galleries, is one of the
most forceful of the abstract-
painters who are making such
a splash at the moment.
Wholly to accept his work
you have to agree that every
abstract painter is an immense
and cosmic visionary, that
every gigantic abstract painting
is a masterpiece worth about
a hundred guineas, and that a
“shape” looking vaguely like a
blue space-rocket or a por-
poise diving in a sea of orange
is as effective as a vision of
reality done with the same
verve of color and movement.
It all looks a little too much
like a short-cut to greatness ;
“The Perpetual” says every-
thing it has to say in one
smashing blow, and then can
add no more. But there is no
doubt about the energy and
the color.
❖ ❖ ❖
The New Old Masters
Melbourne modern art now
has its Old Masters. They were
launched upon a largely unsus-
pecting public by the Museum
of Modern Art with a fanfare
of trumpets that would have
befitted the discovery of 100
hitherto unknown Rembrandts,
and they are to remain at the
museum as a permanent and
fairly representative collection
of the work of notables of
contemporary Australian
painting.
They include Sidney Nolans,
Sam Atyeos, Albert Tuckers,
Danila Vassiliefs, lan Fair-
weathers, Arthur Boyds, John
Percevals and Adrian Lawlors.
There are no samples of
Arnold Shore or William
Frater, who banged a distant
drum for Van Gogh, Cezanne
and others.
Albert Tucker seems to have
something to say in a series
of portraits, sketches and


start the dau right!
mi
I
UIOU* 0
, K V6HO £ «
yIWC
S cbUjl
figure studies. His ink self-
portrait is vital and well
studied, but those lifeless
monotonous penstrokes indi-
cate that his interest in certain
unconventional subject-matter
does not make his line any
the less conventional and
academic. Sidney Nolan's
world-famous “Ned Kelly”
series are messily painted and,
psychologically speaking,
aren t much above the level of
baby’s prattle.
Arthur Boyd does his best
work in “The Lovers,” which
is painted with a freshness not
so apparent in his later pic-
tures. John Perceval has had
a look at them and paid them
the compliment of conscious
or unconscious imitation.
Joy Hester’s drawings have
a certain quality of line, and
Vassilieff’s have color;' in his
summary of faces, legs and
circus activities Fred Williams
says some things boldly. In
“Girl with Flowers” Charles
Blackman strives for a psycho-
logical effect in an infinitely
sad-looking girl clutching a
flower, no doubt a symbol for
something,
%
New Perth Galleries
T he Skinner Galleries,
opened this month in Perth
by Adult Education director
Hew Roberts in the presence
of some 500 guests, were built
by Rose and Josiah Skinner
on a pleasant site at the foot
of Malcolm Street, and will
house an art-gallery, bookshop,
music-room, clubrooms and a
coffee-shop.
The first art - exhibition
includes 57 paintings from
artists living in W.A., the
Eastern States and the U.K.
All of these were eligible for
the new annual Murdoch
prize, the winner of which was
announced by Hal Missing-
ham.
British artist R. Jarvis won
the £2OO award for his “Man
Reading a Newspaper,” a
sombre but powerful study
in off-blacks and greys. The
painting was bought by the
Victorian National Gallery.
The £5O prize for the best
painting by a West Australian
went to Rolf Harris, now liv-
ing in England; his “Deep
Water Blues,” a study of a
man with a guitar, lit-up in
blues and greens, was unusual
but effective and was sold to
a Perth collector.
Charles Bush’s side-street in
Hong Kong improved on
acquaintance, especially from
a distance, though the fore-
ground ■ was rather over-
burdened. Distance also lent
enchantment to several other
pictures, few of which
seemed likely to appear so well
under domestic conditions as
on the walls of a gallery —far
from an artistic fault, of
course, but likely to have a
limiting effect on sales.
Elizabeth Durack’s “Coastal
Town” appeared to advantage
at any distance —an effective
impression of glaring light and
heat, with what could have
been the Port Hedland or
Broome equivalents of Don
Quixote and Sancho Panza in
the foreground. Maximilian
Feuerring’s “Dressing Room”
featured three steatopygous
nudes ; W. Boissevain showed
a pleasing, conventional piece
of work in “Fremantle Scene,”
and Jean Appleton a careful
and conscientious study in
“Cafe Interior.”
Films
“Gervaise”.
Most of the power and
realism of Zola’s The Drunkard
are won by director Rene
Clement in this splendid French
film. Zola himself said of his
work that it had its roots in
truth, and had “the odor of
the people.” The odor is cer-
tainly strong here —and earthy.
Maria Schell, one of Europe’s
most gifted actresses, gives a
memorable performance as the
little crippled laundress who
battles to rise above her con-
stricting environment, but is
defeated by circumstances and
the depravity of her husband
and her lover. Armand Mes-
tral, as the lover, and
Francoise Perier, as the
drunken husband, bring an
uncompromising realism to the
roles.
At Sydney Savoy.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Teacher’s Pet”
A smooth, sophisticated
comedy set in the newspaper
world. Clark Gable, city-
editor of a big daily, is asked
by the head of his paper to
give a series of lectures on the
practical side of journalism
and so assist the daughter of
an old friend who runs tutorial
classes for aspiring journalists.
They clash over methods, and
the resultant comedy is made
snappier by the intrusion, on
the romantic side, of a young
professor of psychiatry who
is collaborating with the lady
in the writing of a book. Gig
Young (as the prof.), Gable
and Miss Day work their way
through the doings with
aplomb, though the Gable is
getting rather long in the tooth
for the romantic stuff. But at
least he has a sturdy mascu-
linity which goes well with the
type of comedy which calls for
treating ’em rough.
At Sydney Prince Edward.
♦♦♦
“The Hunters”
The best feature of this film
about U.S. jet-fighters in Korea
is the camera-work in the air.
The story is less convincing—-
Robert Mitchum, an ace, falls
in love with the wife of one
of the pilots under him. When
the young-’un is shot down
his leader follows him down
to effect his rescue and • show
what a really noble character
he is. May Britt, as the wife,
shows-up best.
At Sydney Mayfair.
* ❖ ❖
“Lucky Jim”
This British comedy by the
Boulting brothers raises a
fairly good crop of laughs,
mostly because of the work
of lan Carmichael, as a gauche
schoolie who has a fatal knack
of treading on the corns of
authority at almost every step.
Situations are bright, particu-
larly one long sequence in
which the schoolie is detailed
by the head of the college to
arrange the floral decorations
for a solemn academic occa-
sion with v.i.p.s as thick as
blowflies on a summer-day.
Terry-Thomas, as a poison-
ous and pompous knowall,
gives him solid support.
At Sydney Esquire.


Telegraphic and Cable address: “Brownhills.”
Telephone: BW 1165 (3 lines).
A. H. BROWNHILL & CO.
(A. H. Brownhill, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
27 O’Connell Street
Sydney
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax" Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pit* Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771—81 V 8088
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
David Syme and Co., Ltd'.
'T'he company which publishes Mel-
bourne “Age” has made a splendid re-
covery from the mixed misfortunes of the
preceding year. Out of the demise (in
1956-57) of “The Argus,” once “The
Age’s” acknowledged competitor, “The
Age” received an embarrassment of cir-
culation. Circulation without a corre-
sponding increase in advertising revenue
can be a losing proposition with news-
print at about a shilling a pound, and
“The Age” still charges only 4d. a copy.
For 1956-57 David Syme and Co. found
advertising harder to sell, as it turned-out,
newsprint costs were higher, if anything,
and distributing (and other) costs which
the two papers previously had shared
had to be borne solely by “The Age.”
Revolutionary changes in the news-
paper world, especially as affecting Mel-
bourne morning dailies, found David
Syme in the midst of reconstructing the
Collins Street building, as well as
becoming . entangled in the then-
unprofitable TV business.
For 1956-57. profits slumped to 6.9 p.c.
on ord. capital, compared with 17.2 p.c.
and 21.3 p.c. in the two preceding years.
The ord. div. was dropped from 8 p.c.
to 6 p.c.
Before the close of the 1956-57
term advertising - rates were increased.
These increases, and the fact that “the
demand for advertising space in both
the classified and display columns of
‘The Age’ has been so great that the
revenue from these sources exceeded that
of any previous year,” were largely
responsible for the spectacular recovery
in David Syme’s fortunes last year.
Publication of “The Leader,” a century-
old farm-and-stock weekly, was ended
in order to apply more resources and
efforts to “The Age,” which has always
been the mainstay of the business.
In fact, 1957-58 was the most successful
year in the history of the company. The
profit was arrived at after increasing
rates of depreciation on printing-plant
(which leads a fast life): £80,649 was
set aside for normal depreciation (up
£20,818), and a further £60,000 (against
nothing in the previous year) was ear-
marked for high cost of plant-
replacement. To the staff fund £21,075
(up £10,087) was transferred, and tax-
provision at £22,000 was £163,250
higher. All these things allowed for, the
net result leapt £197,043 to £286,633: —•
t Dividends , To Re- Re-
Jne., Profit. Pref. , Old. serves, serves.*
5 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
Profit sale assets, £3970 ~.. .. 185,877
Loss on investments, £9343 .. .. 176,534
Excess tax provision, £5963 . . . . 182,497
’53..121,239 20,000 7 p.c. = 70,000 31,239 213,736
Profit sale assets, £2782 .. .. 216,518
’54-232,739 20,000 9 p.c. = 90,000 122,739 339,257
W/off intangibles, £34,243 . . V. 305,014
Profit sale assets, £4049 .. .. 309,063
’55-233,806 20,000 8 p.c. = 80,000 133,806,442,869
Long-service provision, £36,000 .. 406,869
Profit sale assets, £3006 . . 409,875
’56-192,221 20,000 8 p.c. = 80,000 92,221 502,096
Profit sale fixed assets, £421 . . .. 502,517
’57- 59,590 20,000 6 p.c. = 60,000' 9,590 512,107
Loss sale fixed assets, £llB6 . . 510.921
’5B-286,633 20,000 10 p.c.=100,000 166,633 677,554
* Reserves subject to goodwill (£150,000) at
30/ 6/’5B.
The estimate of profit seems to have
been conservative in relation to tax-
provision. Even so, declared profit was
equal to 26.7 p.c. on ord. capital, after
allowing for pref. requirements, and the
ord. div. was lifted to 10 p.c., balancing-
up the cut in the previous year’s div.
There appear to be reasonable hopes
that 10 p.c. will be the aimed-at div.-
rate in the immediate future.
Reconstruction of “The Age” building
is expected to be complete by the end
of this financial year, “when the cost
will have exceeded three-quarters of a
million pounds.” In addition to heavy
outlay on buildings, printing-presses and
other plant, the co. in 1956-57 was called
on to put more money into General
Television Corporation (GTV Channel
9). During the past year this investment
“was reduced to an amount more in
line with the directors’ policy of retain-
ing sufficient funds to meet the develop-
ment programme of ‘The Age’ business.”
Thus, while net outlay on fixed assets
increased last year, there was a drop in
the investments total in the balance-
sheet : —■
Paid capital—- 1956. 1957. 1958.
Pref £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Ord 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Reserves . . . . 502,096 512,107 677,554
Plant - replacement 60,000
Overdraft . . . . 155.627 695,714 416,477
Sundry creditors.. 93,816 159,761 193,379
Income-tax prov. 125,532 56,957 220,202
Long-service leave 36,000
Final div. .. 50,000 70,000 70,000
£2,363,071 £2,894,539 £3,037,612
Freeholds .. .. 678,840 866,984 978.054
Plant .. .. 670,188 651,338 663,613
Stocks .. .. 382,369 534,479 616,518
Debtors .. 361,969 386,944 399,527
Investments .. 102,143 286,617 211,360
Cash . . ~ 17,562 18,177 18,540
Goodwill ~ .. 150,000 150,000 150,000
£2,363,071 £2,894.539 £3,037,612
“Encouraging reports” have been
received from GTV, the David Syme
board announces in the latest accounts.
The higher profit for the year has
made a big improvement in finances, and
there has been a substantial reduction in
the overdraft.
With the demand for advertising still
on the increase the board is “confident
of another successful year.” In the cir-
cumstances the market seems to be
justified in its expectations of con-
tinuance of the 10 p.c. div., which at
the present share-price of 395. gives a
yield of 5.1 p.c.
Deducting goodwill (at £150,000 in the
books), net tangible backing for the ords.
is visibly 30s. 6d. The £1 prefs. are
backed by £4 16s. 6d. of the same sort
of cover.
Gadsden-Hughes Holdings, Ltd.
/''Vperations of the Gadsden-Hughes
group were less profitable last year,
in spite of increased turnover and
improved manufacturing efficiency. The
snag was higher costs of raw materials
and increased wages and overheads, which
were not passed on during the period
under review. Since the close of accounts
selling-prices have been raised to meet
the higher costs.
Last year’s reverse was the first since
the co. in 1951 took over the old-
established proprietaries of J. Gadsden
Pty., Ltd., and Richard Hughes Pty., Ltd.,
both engaged in N.S.W. in the manufac-
ture of metal and tinplate containers.
More recently the group went into plastic
packaging, and All-Packs (Aust.), Ltd.,
was acquired (by the allotment of 119,772
stock-units) to set-up a factory on adjoin-
ing land, where it is making printed cello-
phane and polythene packages. Another
development has been a tie-up with the
American Can Co., largest maker of cans
in the world, for the interchange of
personnel and provision of information
concerning latest overseas techniques
(acknowledged to be of great value to
G.-H.). The U.S. concern has been
granted a par option (exercisable up to
1961) over 130,000 G.-H. 10s. stock-units.
Very little capital has been issued since
flotation ; development has been financed
out of internal funds.
A prominent feature of the earning-
position since conversion seven years ago
has. been the large annual allowance for
depreciation, and, for 1955-56 and
1956-57-, heavy provision for taxation in
relation to declared profits.
In the past term neither provision was
as great as in previous years. After pro-
viding £91,068 (down £14,181) for depre-
ciation and £158,000 (down £7000) for
taxation, as well as £13,000 (down £7000)
for the staff fund, net profit was shown
£11,658 lower at £171,190:
Consolidated Figures.
To Re- Re-
June Profit. r Dividends serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1953. .119,007 7 p.c. = 77,404 41,603 199,123
Bad debts prov. written-back, £7016 206,139
Profit sale freehold, £35,156 .. 241,295
1954. .138,039 7 p.c. = 77,808 60,231 301,526
Capital profits, £33 .. .. .. 301,559
1955. .169,402 9 p.c. = 100,038 60,364 361,923
Capital profits, £246 .. .. .. 362,169
1956. .164,252 9 p.c. = 100,038 61,214 426,383
Capital profits, £42 .. . . . . 426,425
Reserve reduction, £l9B .. .. 426,227
1957. .182,848 9 p.c. = 105,428 77.420 503,647
1958. .171,190 9 „ ~ 105,428 05,762 569,409
The result claimed was equal to 14.6 p.c.


G. H. PARTRIDGE & CO.
E. D. PARTRIDGE, A. G. HANSON
(Members o-f the Sydney Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
113 Pitt Street, Sydney Telephone: BE 6031-3
Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdale” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
R. H. ALLEN
P. R. LEVY
M. K. L. DOWLING
A. P. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel.
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
on capital, compared with 15.6 and 14.8
p.c. in the two preceding years. There
was, of course, no difficulty in maintain-
ing the 9 p.c. div.
It is clear, in spite of the lower earn-
ings and provisions shown, that taxation
provision would indicate a tax-paid profit
of £263,500, compared with the £171,190
claimed in the accounts. This trend has
.been noticeable for some years.
A profit of £263,500 would represent
22.5 p.c. on capital, compared with an
adjusted 23.7 p.c. and 22.7 p.c. in the two
preceding years.
The key to this tax-provision seems to
lie in the amounts set aside for deprecia-
tion each year. Since conversion seven
years ago, £604,752 has been written-off
in depreciation, and most of this would
be in respect of plant. The result is that
plant stood in the books at £453,934 last
balance-day, compared with £609,440 in
1952, this notwithstanding very big addi-
tions to capacity in that time. Chairman
Forsyth himself has at times referred to
depreciation provision as “liberal.”
Balance-sheet figures show that growth
of the group’s activities has called for
substantial additions to freeholds and
plant, while trading figures (stocks and
book-debts) also reveal expansion. Stocks,
in spite of their increase last year, are still
only slightly higher than they were seven
years ago:
1956. 1957. 1958.
Capital .. .. £1,111,535 £1,171.421 £1,171,421
Reserves .. .. 426,383 503,647 569,409
Mortgage .. .. 70,000 85.000 66,000
Overdraft .. .. 5,035 136,000
Creditors .. .. 144,802 57.953 150,042
Tax provision .. 163,234 166.207 160,668
Final div. .. 50,019 52,714 52,714
£1,965,973 £2,041,977 £2,306,254
Freeholds.. .. 341,983 406,972 525.658
Plant, etc. .. 403,249 402,423 453,934
Stocks .. 881,639 858.338 931,893
Debtors .. .. 279,626 340.171 392,865
Cash, etc. .. 59,476 39,073 1,904
£1,965,973 £2,041,977 £2,306,254
The liquid position, though called on to
bear £170,197 of additional net capital-
expenditure last term, was still very com-
fortable. Freeholds, which were revalued
for the purpose of conversion, have in
odd cases been sold at a profit, which
suggests that upvaluation was not then
overdone.
A busy, if somewhat variable, time
appears to be ahead of the packaging
industry, with particular development on
the plastics side. At the canning end,
the canning of beer is a development that
may spread, and may tend to offset
fluctuations in the demand for cans in
the paint and food-processing industries.
Gadsden-Hughes 10s. ords. at last
balance-day had a visible net tangible
backing of 14s. lid. on book-values
which, in the light of the foregoing
analysis, seemed to be all present and
correct. At 16s. 6d. the market puts
much the same value on the shares as it
did a year ago, and accepts a present
return of 5.4 p.c. from a 9 p.c. div.
Pope Industries, Ltd.
'T'he group has certainly put on some
weight over the past year. Judging
by the size of book-debts, turnover must
have increased considerably, although it’s
apparently taking a little longer to get
accounts settled: —■
Consolidated Balance-sheet,
Paid capital— 1956. 1957. 1958.
Pref. .. £245.200 £400,000 £400.000
Old. .. .. 737,804* 806,000 866,000
Reserves .. .. 802,637 893,062 1,009,859
Debentures, etc. .. 603,360 729,860 795,300
Notes . . ~ 349,000 349,000 349,000
Deferred loan «. -- 85,000
Overdraft.. 401,835 274,966 682,731
Creditors .. .. 473,581 481,584 1.052,806
Tax provision 185,071 131,961 116,220
Final divs. 38,500 53,900 56,400
£3,830,988 £4,180,633 £5,413,316
Freeholds .. .. 902,034 1,089,429 1,253,736
Leaseholds r . 62,180 70,238 65,819
Plant .. .. 713,001 858,115 1,002,150
Shares, etc. .. 44,438 20,000 20,000
Stock .. .. 1,543,415 1,657,040 2,052,326
Debtors .. .. 512.295 484,210 1,015,813
Cash, etc. .. .. 59,625* 1,601 3,472
£3,836,988 £4,180,633 £5,413,316
* Includes cash received for shares subsequently
allotted.
But the board has no anxiety on the
score of obesity, and plans for future
expansion are sweeping in their scope.
As plans mature over a five-year period,
about 1000 new employees will be re-
quired, and as a start 200 are being put
on the payroll to supplement the present
work-force of 2500.
As part of the agenda, an 80,000-
sq.-ft. building at Finsbury, S.A., was
taken over from Chrysler (Aust.) last
July, and Pope Industries is also build-
ing a 60,000-sq.-ft. wing at the head-
quarters plant at Beverley, S.A. There
will also be an extension of facilities at
the Pope factory in Perth, and a new
annex for the foundry at Beverley.
Last May a modem office and ware-
house building was completed at Colling-
wood, Melbourne, at a cost of £135,000.
All this activity naturally entails con-
siderable expenditure, and directors
recently announced their intention of
calling-up the unpaid capital on the
ordinary shares, which will increase paid-
up capital by £204,000 to £1,470,000, in
180,000 6 p.c. cumulative preference
stock-units of 20s. each, 220,000 7 p.c.
redeemable cumulative preference stock-
units of 20s. each, and 4,280,000
ordinaries of ss. each.
Shareholders’ funds will then bear a
more equitable proportion, to . total re-
sources, which rose during the term from
£4,180,633 to £5,413,316, but it seems
certain that something more will be
needed.
Main sources of funds were £570,922
of creditors’ money, an additional
£407,765 of bank overdrafts, and further
deferred loans and mortgages of £150,440.
Finances look rather less easy
than they did on 1956-57 figures. On
book-values at June 30, current liabilities
totalled £1,908,157, against more-or-less-
liquid assets of £3,071,611. Comparative
figures for the previous year were
£942,711 and £2,142,851.
The company opened its innings in a
Croydon, Adelaide, garage in 1925 under
very modest circumstances, a push-bike
belonging to Mr. Barton Pope making-
up part of the capital; and it was not
until 1945 that the present Pope Indus-
tries, Ltd., was formed to acquire the
share-capital of Pope Products, Ltd.
Whereas sprinklers, irrigation equipment,
hand-tools, etc., originally monopolised
the production-line, the group now makes
as its chief products TV-sets, electric-
motors, refrigerators, washing-machines
and lawnmowers.
Under recent technical agreements
made with several famous U.S. corpora-
tions, there will soon be added to Pope’s
catalogue a host of new products, includ-
ing air-conditioning equipment, which
will be manufactured under licence from
the Borg-Warner Corporation.
Here is a summary of progress scores
over the most hectic years of Pope
Industries’ development:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Dividends N To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. ( Ord. N serves. serves.*
5 p.c.
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
1951.. 50,224 9,000 8 - 19,200 22,024 212,961
1952.. 60,102 9,000 8 = 19,200 31,902 244,863
Tax overprovided, £247 .. .. 245,110
Intangibles written off, £23,371 .. 221,739
Unexplained additions, £41,530 . . 263,269
1953.. 86,744 9,000 10 =30,667 47,077 310,346
1954.. 197.888 9,000 15 = 51,000 137,888 448,234
Assets revalued, £249,500 .. .. 697,734
From sundry provisions, £145,213 .. 842,947
Unexplained addition, £3 .. .. 842,950
1955.. 9,000 15 =51,000 153,476 996.426
Profit sale assets, etc., £12,723 .. 1,009,149
Assets revalued, £340,000 ... .. 1,349,149
Added intangibles. £339,919 . . 1,009,230
Reserves capitalised, £340,000 .. 669,230
1956- 9,000 12|= 59,500 133,407 802,637
Unexplained addition, £7 .. .. 802,644
6 & 7 p.c.
1957- 27,483 10 =78,200 90,418 893,062
Capital profit, £789 .. .. .. 893,851
Added intangibles, £22,383 . . . . 871,468
1958- 26,200 10 =86,600 138,391 1,009,859
* After deducting difference between book and par
values of iuterco. holdings.
After providing for expenses, company-
tax, £101,021 (a marked reduction from
the £131,000 provided in 1957, but “losses
made by a subsidiary company prior to
the date of its acquisition have reduced
the tax liability for the year under re-
view”), and depreciation, £115,644
(£96,035), net profit for the year from
the operations of the parent and its sub-
sidiaries come out at £251,191 (£196,101),
of which much less than half was
absorbed by combined dividends totalling
£112,800.
Profit for the ordinaries, £224,991,
represented a return of 26.0 p.c. on
average ord. capital, compared with 40.5
p.c. in 1956 and 21.6 p.c. in 1957.
The fall in earning-power in the pre-
vious term was, of course, due to a one-
for-one issue of bonus-scrip in May,
1956, followed the next month by the
issue of the 7 p.c. prefs. mentioned pre-
viously and the 1,360,000 contribs.


*
*r
A
A
F=*
U
C
NEW ISSUE
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATICN LTD.
Australia’s Leading Hire Purchase Organisation, announces a new issue of
7% p.a. • • 6 yrs.
6i% p.a* • • 4 yrs.
Si% p.a* • . 2 yrs.
5% p.a. . . . I yr.
4i% p.a. o o 9 mths.
4% p.a. . . 6 mths.
3i% p.a. . . 3 mths.
I.A.C. guarantees fixed quarterly income, free of exchange. For full details, see Prospectus.
These are facts that the wise investor should know.
PAID UP CAPITAL
£ 10,000,000
ASSETS EXCEED
£55,000,000
A copy of the Prospectus has been
lodged with the Registrar General
in all Capital Cities and Canberra.
Our Auditors, Messrs. L. B. Wallace & Son,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.) wish to state
that as at 31st July, 1958, the amount of issued
Debenture Stock was £23,346,090 secured by a
first floating charge over the tangible assets
of. the Company which amounted to
£58,626,014 at that date.
Your copy of the Prospectus is available from Members of Stock Exchanges, 703
Branches of A.N.Z. Bank Limited or I.A.C. Branches.
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
(Established 28 years)
MELBOURNE • SYDNEY • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • HOBART • CANBERRA
• NEWCASTLE • GEELONG • WOLLONGONG • BUNBURY
Underwriting Brokers:
lan Potter dt Co.,
Melbourne, Canberra & Sydney .
Trustee for the Debenture Stockholders:
The Perpetual Executors & Trustees Association
of Australia Limited.
D9B
which are now in process of
being called in full.
Despite the highly competi-
tive nature of its markets, Pope
Industries, Ltd., has its fair
share of supporters.
Now listed on Sydney, Bris-
bane and Perth ’Changes as
well as Adelaide and Mel-
bourne, the ords. have firmed
from 7s. 6d. twelve months
ago to 125., from which the
immediate yield is a lean
£4 3s. 4d. p.c. on a 10 p.c. divi-
dend basis; prospects, how-
ever, look exceptionally bright.
When the new capital is fully
called, net tangibles for each
ss. ord. will amount to 11s. 6d.
on June’s figures.
Wilke and Co., Ltd.
'T'wo sure-fire money-spinners
butter the parsnips of
Melbourne printer Wilke’s
shareholders —the Australasian
edition of the “Readers’
Digest” and that rather more
prosiac tome, the Melbourne
Telephone Directory. There
are, besides, lesser sidelines.
The cornerstone of the house
of Wilke was laid before the
turn of the century, but it was
not until 1948 that outside
money was recruited. On this
occasion 40,000 20s. shares were
issued to the public, each at
16s. premium, while three-
quarters of the paid-up capital
remained in the hands of the
original proprietors.
Expansion was rapid. The
following year 50,000 5 p.c.
preference shares were issued
at par, and in 1950 a valuable
technical link was obtained by
the issue of a small parcel of
10,000 shares at 16s. premium
each to Hazell, Watson and
Viney, Ltd., of London. Then
in 1951 came a bonus-issue—
one-for-one —of 130,000 shares
to ordinary shareholders fol-
lowed by a one-for-four par
issue {post bonus) of 65,000
ords.
Another £50,000 of prefs.,
this time carrying p.c., was
issued to the M.L.C. in 1955,
these shares being redeemable
over the 20 years 1960-80.
Latest issue of equities was in
the same year, when 113,850
ords. were issued to ordinary
shareholders in the ratio of
35-for-100.
Wilke’s accounts have a
tendency toward opacity. The
yearly report reveals that turn-
over edged forward to a new
“high,” as did also pre-tax
profit. However, not only does
tax provision appear to be dis-
proportionately high, but inner
provisions against undisclosed
contingencies would seem to
have been generous. At any
rate, the tax provided, £65,500
(£62,400 in 1957) would be
commensurate with a much
higher net profit than the dis-
closed £52,264 (down £3008).
To arrive at this profit figure
an additional £7OOO was pro-
vided for doubtful debts and
£79,381 (£57,610 in 1957) for
wear-and-tear on plant, the
relatively large figure in this
last case being “necessitated in
part by the increase in pro-
ductive hours worked by the
plant” (standard depreciation
allowances are increased 50
p.c. on a pro rata basis for
hours worked above normal),
Visible earning-rates assessed
on the figures shown in the
table below are a deceptive
indicator of the probable future


Invest in
OGQ
The longest established hire-purchase
company in Australia
. Registered First Mortgage
DEBENTURE
STOCK
6 or 10 years 7%
4 years 6'h% 2 years 5Vz%
Short Term Stock also available from
3 months at 3Va%
Assets exceed £47,000,000
Application Forms and Prospectus
• Any A.G.C. Branch • Your Stockbroker
• Bank of New South Wales at any Branch
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
142 Phillip Street, Sydney • BW 2673
Sydney • Melbourne • Brisbane • Adelaide • Perth
Hobart
A copy of the prospectus covering this issue of
£2,500,000 has been lodged with the Registrar-General,
Sydney.
72N
THE “WILD CAT"
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearlv Subscription .. 22/6
MULLENS & CO.
A. H. URQUHART, M. D. PASSMORE, K. W. A. BRIDGES
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
25 O’CONNELI. STREET
SYDNEY
Telephone
RW 8171 (3 lines)
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECELEX.’- Sydney
course of the rate of dividend,
which has now been main-
tained at 8 p.c. since 1953:
f Dividends Re-
Jne. Prft. I’ref. f Ord. >, serves.
5 p.c.
£ £ £ £
’53..43.569 2500 8 p.c. = 26,000 134,876
Profit sale assets, £439 .. 135.315
To staff fund, £2500 .. 132,815
Prelim, exp. \v/off, £3709.. 129,106
’54..59,054 2500 8 p.c. = 26,000 159,660
Profit sale assets, £1487 .. 161,147
Tax overprovided. £11.780.. 172,927
Prelim, exp. w/off. £3095. . 169,832
A Pref. P Pref. Ord.
5 p.c. 6-1 p.c. 8 p.c.
’55..50,349 2500 686 26,758 190,237
Profit sale assets. £592 . . 190.829
To staff fund, £2OOO .. 188,829
’56..50,026 2500 3250 35,108 197,997
Net capital loss on plant
scrapped or sold, £4533. . 193,464
Provision for long-service
leave, £BBB4 .. .. 184,580
Tax overprovided, £3563 . . 188,143
’57..55,272 2500 3250 35.108 202,557
Net capital profit, £679 .. 203,236
Tax overprovided, £11,767.. 215.003
Long-service prov.. £6244 . . 208,759
’58..52,264 2500 3250 35,108 220,165
The 130.000 of 20s. 6 p.c.
registered unsecured notes,
issued at par in 1954, carry
options to subscribe at par for
130,000 ordinary shares of 20s.
each at conversion date, May
15, 1959:
Paid capital— 1957. 1958.
Pref £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord 438,850 438,850
Reserves .. 202,557 220,165
Notes .. .. 130.000 130,000
Overdraft, etc... 288,854 145,161
Creditors . . 44,542 56,021
Long-service pro-
vision .. 13,384 16,382
Tax provision .. 62.400 65,500
Dividends .. 22,623 22,623
£1,303,510 £1,194,702
Freehold .. 235,747 199,900
Plant .. .. 491.715 428,585
Stock ~ .. 408,527 315.721
Debtors .. .. 167,068 249.503
Cash, etc. .. 453 993
£1,303,510 £1,194,702
Wilke and Co. obviously has
no worries on the score of
working-capital.
Stocks were whittled-down
by £92,806 over the year to
June 30, and this was more
than matched on the liabilities
side by a halving of the over-
draft. Written-off the book-
value of freeholds was £35,847,
in part due to the transfer of
certain items of plant included
in the cost of the Clayton
buildings to plant accounts,
and dn part, apparently, to the
sale of the Yarraville premises
and the transfer of operations
entirely to the Clayton plant.
With one eye on the coming
note-conversion, buyers are
keeping their bids for the ord.
scrip to a cautious 225. for the
present. Yield is £7 ss. 6d. on
an 8 p.c. basis, but, despite the
dampener of the higher capital,
income-improvement is not out
of the question. If all the
options are exercised, as seems
certain, net tangible backing
on the basis of last year’s
figures will be 275. 4d. a share.
Qualified Approval
[From London]
'T'he second report of the
A Cohen Council on Prices,
Productivity and Incomes,
appointed last year to study the
United Kingdom economic
situation and to comment on
it “from time to time,” broadly
approves the present Govern-
ment policy of cautious expan-
sion of demand, but is wary
of that old bogy, inflation. “The
dangers of inflation,” it affirms,
“have only been scotched, not
killed.’’
A seeming “old-fashioned”
orthodoxy, interlined with a
few shrewd digs at the Govern-
ment's rationalisations, sum-
marises the approach of these
“three wise men.” They believe
the key to the U.K.’s future
is price-stabilisation, the
prospect for which is now so
good, and they consider that
the 3j per cent, wage-increase,
though an improvement on
1957 (5 per cent.) and 1956 (S
per cent.), is still too high.
Wage-increases in future years
should, they affirm, be smaller
still; British people should
prepare for a higher average
level of unemployment than
that of post-war years; and
local unemployment in the new
development areas may cause
some trouble.
The trade-unions, who were
suspicious of the council even
before it began, are now raging-
mad. and it is certain that the
report will serve to imbue the
delegates at Bournemouth with
an indignation more than suffi-
cient to ensure the success of
their conference. Nor is it
likely that the Government, or,
for that matter, other parties,
will agree that an increase in
productivity as much as 3y
per cent, per annum “over any
long period of future years”
is unreasonable.
But the coucil’s function is to
examine and pronounce. If the
conviction of its members is
pinned to price-stabilisation,
they must state their case fully,
as indeed they have done. One
section of the report shows their
deep concern with artificial
means of keeping prices up. The
council points out, with some
aggressiveness, that in those
industries—especially manufac-
turing industries where pro-
duction tends to rise faster than
average, their prices should fall.
But they don’t. And it criti-
cises the Government for its
weakness over the Restrictive
Trade Practices Act.
The council then goes on to
praise (and, therefore, to draw
attention to) the work done by
consumer-research services in
publishing “Which?” and “The
Shopper’s Guide.” “It would
be unfortunate,” the comment
proceeds, “if the reluctance of
managements to disturb the
status quo should show itself in
an unwillingness to make price-
reductions when they become
possible.... An adventurous
attitude on their part would
put all the rest of the com-
munity in their debt.”
The public is certainly
becoming more value-
conscious, for “Which?”, start-
ing with some 23,000 sub-
scribers a year ago, has in-
creased its membership to
72,000.


Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO CHARLES WILLIAM PAINE late
of Taree.—TAKE NOTICE that
DOROTHY PHYLLIS PAINE has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1219 of 1958
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 18th day of December
1958 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from GEOFFREY SEE
GILLIS & CO., Solicitors, 28 Martin
Place, Sydney.—J. DOUG H A N ,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO BARRY JOHN WILLIAMS late of
Bondi.—TAKE NOTICE that KATH-
LEEN ELIZABETH WILLIAMS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1113 of
1958 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years'
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 18th day of December
1958 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from GEOFFREY SEE
GILLIS & CO., Solicitors, 28 Martin
Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO NORMAN JOSEPH FOLEY late of
Croydon.—TAKE NOTICE that MAVIS
IRENE FOLEY has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 653 of 1958 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Mint Build-
ing Macquarie Street Sydney by the
18th day of December 1958 and obtain
a copy 'of the Petition without charge
from GEOFFREY SEE GILLIS & CO.,
Solicitors, 28 Martin Place, Sydney. —■
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
‘ A USTRALIAN Accent” has the
unusual qualification of
five years’ close-hand exper-
ience (and that in an important
editorial chair) and not, as has
been known, a transitory five
weeks. Unlike the early
migrants whose attitudes he
analyses, the author, John
Douglas Pringle, has no “pol-
itical, social or psychological
resentments” against England,
and the reason for his return
was, he told me, “not because
he disliked Australia.”
In a brief preface, he affirms
that he hasn’t written a travel-
book and that he has deliber-
ately left out economic factors
and “other genuinely important
problems which do not happen
to interest me.” But he also
throws out a double challenge
which is certain to have lively
repercussions.
The first is to Britain. “It
is high time that Britain should
take more seriously this young
and vigorous nation to which
she gave indifferent birth 170
years ago.” One immediate
reaction was an order for
reprinting. Pringle feels that
people over here should be
more intellectually interested in
Australia —as, in fact, they are
in the United States —and con-
siders that “a proper exhib'tion
of Australian art,” preferably
at the Tate Gallery, is sadly
overdue.
Since he is outspoken and his
candor is, to say the least, unin-
hibited, some prospective
British emigrants may well
have to reconsider if they take
to heart his explanations why
few English feel at home in
Australia and why few of them
get on well with Australians.
And those who have come to
admire R. G. Menzies as a
world statesman of the Smuts
class may be shocked at the
close-up of him.
The second part of the
challenge must wait until Aus-
tralians can see themselves as
another has seen them. It is that
“Australians, who, like other
people, dislike criticism inten-
sely, are now mature enough to
take it.”
“Australian Accent” is an
absorbing and provocative
book. One puts it down con-
scious of two shortcomings:
the “suburban civilisation of
the coastal fringe” appears to
be Sydney only ; and the other
is the showing-up of unpoetical
contemporary England by a
chapter entirely deyoted to
Australian poetry.
Cautious Pensions
There is certainly nothing
overgenerous about the
Government’s new national
superannuation scheme. It is
so skilfully and coldly realistic
as to be, politically speaking,
unexciting. For this reaction
orthodox circles are profoundly
thankful.
The emotional jesponse to
Labor’s grandiose “half-pay”
pensions was so warm that
various authorities, normally
anxious to keep out of poli-
tics, felt compelled to become
pamphleteers in order to point
out its inherent dangers. The
life-offices, not entirely disin-
terested, launched a nation-wide
campaign. Even the Associa-
tion of Chambers of Commerce
circulated a well-informed
denunciation to its members.
There were fears, too, that the
Conservative Government,
forced as it was to accept the
challenge, might panic and
pay a little less than full respect
to actuarial science.
This has not happened. The
authority and tempering
commonsense of the Govern-
ment Actuary is manifest.
There is no “built-in” inflation,
as with the Socialist scheme.
No one can be called upon to
pay more than 3s. 6d. extra a
week, and some—the lower-
paid—will pay less.
The scheme has three broad
aims: to correct the growing
deficit on the national health
charge; to provide all
employed workers with some
degree of superannuation ; and
to superimpose pension provi-
sions on the arrangements
already in force.
For the first time in this
country, the flat-rate (Beve-
ridge) principle is to be
dropped. Instead, benefits
and contributions will be
related to pay, although within
fairly narrow limits (earnings
of between £9 and £l5 a
week), giving a maximum pen-
sion to a 65-year-old married
man of £6 Is. a week. The
cost is estimated to rise from
£685 million in the first year
to £1053 million in 20
years, and the Exchequer will
make an annual payment of
£l7O million a year (just over
a quarter of the contributions).
At present about nine-million
people, mostly male, are pen-
sionable. Of these, under four-
million are in public employ-
ment, leaving five - million
covered by private schemes. Of
the entire working population,
about one man in two, and
three women in four, are not
covered by any kind of super-
annuation scheme.
There are two important
considerations to the new plan.
One is that the manual worker,
whose transitory nature does
not lend itself to inclusion in
the best schemes, will benefit.
And the other is the effect
upon schemes already inaug-
urated. Here, the employer
(but not the employee) can
apply to opt out, subject to
certain requirements, including
transferability of rights. This
latter, though an inevitable
consequence of both universal
pensions and scarcity of labor,
is likely to become a contro-
versial point. For not only is
transferability unacceptable to
most employers, but it will cost
a further 10 per cent.
The bill is intended to be
passed through Parliament dur-
ing the coming session, but the
scheme will not be ready for
operation until 1961.
Documentary Play
Robert Ardrey, author of
“Thunder Rock,” spent some
years after the war as foreign
correspondent in Geneva for
“The Reporter.” Having access
to special sources of informa-
tion, he was prompted to set
down, in terms of the theatre,
the tragic march of events in
Hungary during the 12
years from the Nazi decline
to the people’s uprising against
the Russians. Timed to open
at the Piccadilly Theatre
exactly two years after the
revolution began to gather
momentum, his play, “Shadow
of Heroes,” has suffered a
merciless drubbing from the
London critics, who have
faulted it on every count.
This consensus of dis-
approval seems harsh and
unjust, for the play has con-
siderable merit, both in con-
ception and in workmanship ;
the production (Peter Hall) is
faithful as well as imaginative,
and the acting is poignantly
sensitive. The chief complaint
is that the documentary, mere
black-and-white propaganda,
ought never to have been put
on, because the stage,, though
eloquent and expressive to
fiction, is a distorting-mirror to
facts.
There is truth in this argu-
ment. Plays written as propa-
ganda, too, are invariably
excruciatingly bad plays. But
there is room in the theatre for
the documentary. What Ardrey
has done is to dramatise a series
of episodes, based on known or
circumstantial fact, and to link
them together by a commentary
(chorus). He does not employ
propaganda, which is some-
thing organised to extend a
belief, though strong anti-Com-
munist feeling and pro-under-
dog sympathy emerge from the
development of the action.
The author, perhaps, is
guilty of undeliberate cheating.
He makes out that the prin-
cipals—himself, Janos Kadar,
Lazio Rajk, Julia Rajk, Erno
Gero and Rakosi—are not
impersonated but are merely
“spoken by” Emlyn Williams,
Alan Webb, Mogens Wieth,
Peggy Ashcroft, Stephen
Murray and Martin Miller. He
then allows them all (except the
first, who laconically fills in as
chorus) to act for all their
worth! He also gives way to
dramatist’s licence by white-
washing Rajk into a dewy
idealist.
But the much - criticised
setting (there is no scenery, only
screens) is as indispensable as
the one-man chorus and is
worthily derived from his
master, Thornton Wilder.
Despite its organic inconsis-
tencies and inadequacies,
“Shadow of Heroes” is deeper
and fuller than simple repor-
tage. It is also a shattering
commentary on our times.


A Visiting
Venus
By E. O. SCHLUNKE
IN my mind it is always Our
Town although it isn’t my
town. Just a place I visit,
jutting too far into the
arid western N.S.W. sheep
country, where towns of its size
are rare.
During the hot summer
months people come from
immense distances, drawn by its
line river and the associated
amenities. They lounge in the
beautiful, cool hotels and
swear that after the next good
season they will sell-out and
settle on the green, far south
coast. But when they retire
they get no farther than our
town.
It’s the same with the towns-
people ; after paying all their
lives to create swimming-pools,
bowling-greens, parks and play-
grounds, they can’t face-up to
leaving it all and parting from
the people they have known so
long.
That is why you hear so
much talk about the uniqueness
of our town. In our town the
municipal street-cleaner leans
on his broom to joke with the
mayor on the way to his office.
Barney’s father was our street-
cleaner, too, and his father be-
fore him.
We treasure people like
Barney, but it isn’t quite the
same with the transient popula-
tion ; the people who come to
an appointment for only half-
a-dozen years or so. We take
them into our clubs and even
our homes, but we never feel
that we really know them.
It’s even more difficult for
girls. Women are not the same
as men, apart from the minor
difference in shape and the
major one of sex. That’s why
we had the trouble about
Brownie Ferris.
The big chain-store people
she worked for should never
have deliberately sent such an
attractive girl to be put just
inside the main door as an eye-
catcher. Only people com-
pletely ignorant of country
towns would have done that;
people who regard sex-appeal
as a commodity to be bought
and used in sales-promotion,
like colored photography.
Not that Brownie wasn’t a
success at snaring new
customers. That was just the
trouble; she was. The effect
she had on men going past the
chain-store doors was much the
same as if they’d walked into a
ladder carelessly left there by a
workman. The same sudden
halt. The same stunned
surprise.
'T'he delayed effect was some-
thing like this conversation
in Charlie Barnard's home ;
and no one could calculate the
number of homes in which
something similar was going
on. Only it was serious for
Brownie that Mrs. Barnard
should be involved, because
she is a power in our town:
“Hulloo, dear ; sorry I’m a
bit late. But here, I bought you
a little present. Might be use-
ful in the kitchen.”
“Oh, what is it? From the
chain-store, heh? I thought
you didn’t approve of chain-
stores.”
“Just a little gadget I
happened to see as I was
passing.”
“Ha! Just happened to see
it as you were passing, did
you?”
“I thought you’d be pleased
I’d bought something for you."
“Oh, yes, I am! Thank you
very much. Now would you
mind telling me just why you
happened to be gaping into the
chain-store?”
“I was not gaping into the
chain-store.”
“I know you well enough.
That’s exactly what you’d be
doing.”
“Now you’re starting to work


yourself up. Just because I
brought you a present.”
“Present! Rubbish! Don't
tell me you didn’t notice a girl
in there.”
“Naturally I noticed a girl in
there. Dozens of them. You
can’t buy anything without
someone selling it to you.”
“Ha, and what middle-aged
gallantries did you use to
impress her?”
“Good God, woman!”
“That’s right; swear. Loud
enough for your daughters to
hear.”
“You’d drive any man to it.”
“And while the dinner was
spoiling in the oven, what were
you doing? Giving her a lift
home in your wonderful new
car? Or only discussing her,
limb by limb, with your porno-
graphic friends in a pub?”
“That’s enough!”
“No, it’s not enough!”
principle Mrs. Barnard
didn’t patronise the chain-
store. After all, it was not a
local concern. At most she
might pop in rather furtively
for a special sort of orange-
squeezer you couldn’t get any-
where else in town. But on the
morning after getting the
unappreciated present from
Charlie, she was down early,
fronting Brownie’s counter;
towering above it with her con-
siderable height; her eyes
studying Brownie piercingly.
“I want a brush. A special
sort of brush ; for raising the
pile on a velvet frock.”
“Certainly, madam. Is this
the kind you want?”
“What? Think I’d use that
on a good frock? It’d ruin it!”
“But, excuse me, madam" —
“It’s far too coarse. That’s
what they use for suede shoes ”
“It’s what we sell for velvet.”
“You must have a lot of
stupid customers.”
“They’re satisfied. They don’t
come back.”
A spot of red appeared on
one of Mrs. Barnard’s cheek-
bones. Brownie was watchful;
sparring confidently.
“It’s not what I want. Show
me something softer.”
“Well, what about this , . ,
Madam?”
“Useless. Far too soft.”
“Well then, is this what you
want?”
“No good at all. Why don’t
you use your sense. The
bristles are far too long.”
“Well, here’s one with short
bristles.”
“Don’t be stupid.”
Little lines of irritation on
Brownie’s smooth, youthful
forehead, and her eyes began
to flash in an unservile manner.
“Too coarse, too soft, too
long, too short. Say, what sort
of a velvet frock is this you’ve
got?”
Mrs. Barnard smiled crush-
ingly.
“It’s a frock I bought in
Italy when I was there last
year, in Genoa. Everybody
with any intelligence knows
that Genoa-velvet is the best
in the world.”
“Too bad you didn't think
of buying a brush, too, while
you were in Genoa.”
“Are you trying to be im-
pertinent?”
“No, I’m only trying to
make helpful suggestions.”
“You are being impertinent.
Where’s the manager? I'm
going to report you.”
TTaving been there only a
year, the manager didn’t
understand Mrs. Barnard's feel-
ings. He did know something
about country towns, though.
No one in our town goes out of
his way to be friendly with
the chain-store manager, for
the very good reason that we
have two excellent general
stores of our own, run by town
families for generations.
Nothing openly hostile, or even
unkind, you know. In fact,
most of the managers didn’t
seem to notice it. But this one
had.
It wasn’t so long before we
began to notice him spending
his evenings in prolonged
crawls from pub to pub,
generally with one of his staff
or a disreputable local type
who would put-up with any-
body for the sake of beer and
company. Just as a matter of
interest we began to count his
drinks —someone in each pub
or club made a business of it.
The fellow should have been
grateful ; it was the fright he
got when he discovered that
his daily totals might easily
be reported to his firm that
saved him from becoming an
alcoholic.
“You really must try to be
patient with women like Mrs.
Barnard,” he said to Brownie,
.after he had done his best with
the lady. “This isn't Sydney,
where the customers go right
out of your life when they
leave the store.”
“But she just came in and
picked on me for no reason.
As soon as she opened her
mouth I could see she wanted a
fight. And I’ve never seen her
before.”
“Only God knows what
makes these country people
tick,” the manager said, then
glanced round nervously at the
nearest customers: “You'll
have to be careful. You just
can’t imagine what a woman
like her is up to.”
As a matter of fact, as soon
as Mrs. Barnard got back to
her home she phoned all her
acquaintances (or as she called
them, her friends) and asked
them if their husbands had
been bringing them presents
from the chain-store.
During the next couple of
weeks, while Mrs. Barnard was
concerning herself with, the
Brownie Ferris problem, most
of the town was more con-
cerned with the settling down
of one of our best types of
young men, the son of a son
of a permanent resident, a
young man polished in the best
metropolitan schools. Two
years at the university on
economics (for the benefit of
his father’s business) and a
trip abroad to have a look at
American methods —a young
man whose sexual entangle-
ment was a matter of keenest
excitement among the families
which considered themselves
eligible, and of the greatest in-
terest among the few thousands
of other people.
He was, as a matter of fact,
a very pleasant young man,
with no great opinion of him-
self, nor, it was suspected by
a discerning few, of his town
either, though far too polite
to mention this to anyone.
He first saw Brownie's
beautiful, angry face among
the employees waiting for the
door to open into the chain-
store. She was among them,
but not of them. The others
were mostly daughters of
decent if humble citizens.
Harvey Millington had gone to
primary school with many of
them, and he greeted them as
he had each morning since he
had started work in his
father’s firm. Then he stood
looking at Brownie, and
Brownie looked at him, her
face still clouded because she
was learning.
When the pause became
embarrassing, the kindest of
the other girls said: “This is
Brownie Ferris.”
She didn’t say, “This is
Harvey Millington,” because
she couldn’t imagine anyone
not knowing that.
Co that afternoon, when the
employees came out of the
store, Harvey w'as standing
with his back to the wall, pur-
posefully waiting, and tapping
his knee with his briefcase to
make it look casual.
He swooped on Brownie and
took her away from the rest.
“Let me walk home with
you,” he said. “There’s some-
thing I’ve got to tell you.”
Brownie smiled at him, a
little cautiously, though after
what she'd been able to worm
out of the girls during the day,
it was natural enough that she
should be pleased.
“I hope you didn't think me
rude this morning ; staring at
you the way I did.”
“I’ve got used to men staring
at me.”
“But, good Lord, I didn't
stare at you like that! I was
surprised. I was just
astonished. 1 was sure I’d seen
you before somewhere.”
“You don’t need to use that
angle. We’ve been properly
introduced, you know.”
“But it was in U.S.A., on a
train, that I saw your face. I
got out at every station, trying
to find that girl, but I never
saw her again. I couldn’t for-
get her. That was why I
stared at you.”
“It’s a smart line. Did you
learn it in America?”
“No, no. I’m serious. I
didn't think I could bear to
come back here when there
was a girl like that somewhere
in the outside world.”
“Then I came along.”
“That’s right. It’s wonder-
ful, isn’t it?”
“What makes you think I’m
so like that other girl?”
“Oh, you are. You’ve got
to be, to compensate me for
having to come back here.”
“I’d just decided that I'd
have to leave this town.”
“But you can’t do that!
Why should you?’’
“There’s a dozen women
,ganged-up on me. They come
into the store and give me hell.
Every day some of them are
at it.”
“But surely they wouldn’t
do that to you.”
“They do, I tell you they
do. You go and ask the
manager.”
“Oh well, the only thing I
can think of, is that it’s because
you’re so beautiful.”
“They pick on me until I
get mad. Then they complain
to the manager, and he comes
and chips me. It’s a terrible
place.”
“I can put-up with it now
that you’re here. Won’t it
make a difference to you, now
that we’ve found each other?”
“Well, it might,” Brownie
said, looking seriously at his
eager, pleasant face.
6 news for you,
Brownie,” the chain-
store manager said. “I’ve
arranged a transfer for you.
Back to Sydney where you’ll
be appreciated. Half your
luck.”
“I don’t want to go.”
“Good Lord! What’s wrong
with you?”


“I just don’t want to go back
to Sydney.”
“They must have driven you
mad!”
“No. I’m not mad.”
“Well, I’ll be mad, soon.
You’d better think it over. Tell
me tomorrow.”
“I’ll feel the same tomorrow.”
“Our sales are going down
something terrible. The people
don’t come in to buy any more.
Only to watch the fights. You’ll
have to go, Brownie, or I'll sack
you.”
By a stroke of luck Brownie
managed to get a job in the
dress-department of one of our
big stores. Tennysons had a
new manager, a grandson of the
founder, determined to pep-up
business, which depended on a
gradually declining number of
monthly accounts. He’d
noticed Brownie in the chain-
store, and wished he’d been able
to think-up something as smart.
So now he couldn't believe his
luck. He introduced her
enthusiastically to the depart-
ment manageress.
“We should be able to use her
for modelling our frocks, don’t
you think, Mrs. Morgandy?
What about putting on a dress-
parade, with cocktails and sand-
wiches? Invite the husbands to
come along with their wives
and daughters. Miss Brownie
in something backless and strap-
less might shake a few tenners
out of their wallets —hey, Mrs.
Morgandy?”
“Whatever you say, Mr.
Tennyson. Y ou’re W
manager.
Tennysons is a fine institu-
tion. A lot of the employees
■come from quite good families.
They’ve known all the cus-
tomers for years and years, and
understand exactly what they
want. The customers know the
assistants, too. It made them
stare to see Brownie there r
popping up so unexpectedly,
when they’d been accustomed
to harassing her at the chain-
store. They sailed past her to
the comfort of familiar service.
Brownie sold hardly a thing,
except to a few silly young girls
the old hands wouldn’t deign
to serve for any consideration.
TTarvey Millington took
Brownie to the pictures
twice ; then to a dance, before
Mrs. Barnard phoned his
mother to ask her if she knew
that her son was going round
with “that sexy little mantrap
from the chain-store.”
Now, Mrs. Millington recog-
nised the private venom in Mrs.
Barnard’s voice ; yet she was
alarmed and justifiably.
People who have spent genera-
tions raising their financial and
cultural level have a right to be
perturbed about the possible
entanglement of their only sons.
If the girl turned out to be any-
thing like Mrs. Barnard’s des-
cription, where was the family’s
future? Where, moreover, was
Mrs. Millington’s and her
globe-trotting daughter’s if, as
threatened, Mr. Millington’s
high blood - presure should
presently carry him off? In the
hands of a sexy little mantrap.
No one could blame Mrs.
Millington for taking a defen-
sive attitude.
She had an unsatisfactory
interview with her son. She
heard about the vision he’d seen
in America for the first time,
and its incredible fulfilment in
their home-town. She was not
greatly impressed with anything
but her son’s apparent serious-
ness. So she used the technique
which responsible mothers have
undoubtedly been using since
the evolutionary process has
raised them above the primitive
scramble for survival. She
issued an invitation for the girl
to have dinner with the family.
Both the young people were
guilelessly pleased with this
development. Brownie did her-
self up in a gleaming frock, cut
in what shopgirls considered a
sophisticated style ; with long
dangling earrings, and other
current accessories from the
chain-store. Young Harvey
was too dazzled to notice what
she wore, and when his father
opened the ponderous front-
door to let the young couple in,
his face lit-up with uninhibited
pleasure.
“By jove, son, I didn’t think
you could pick ’em like this.”
He held Brownie’s hand
fondly, while helping himself to
the nostalgic pleasure a middle-
aged man gets from monopolis-
ing, even briefly, the attention
of a beautiful young girl.
“I’ll tell you what, boy,” he
said, getting quite out of hand,
“she’s the living image of a girl
I was mad about when I was
your age. She was in the chorus
of ‘Sally’ when Madge Elliot
and Cyril Ritchard were starr-
ing in Sydney. God, she was a
wonderful girl!”
He shook his head, suddenly
sad. A voice came from one
of the many interior rooms,
and it must have been apparent
to Brownie immediately that it
wasn’t that of the memorable
chorus-girl grown older and
domesticated.
“Harry, did you answer the
door? Well, will you please
come here for a moment.”
“Coming,” said Millington
senior, in the firm, unrevealing
voice which had carried him
through all his business and
domestic crises.
“What’s she wearing?”
Mrs. Millington was in her
underwear still, fingering the
rows of dresses in her ward-
robe.
“Oh, a glistening thing, cut
very dashing ; with high heels
and long earrings. Done up to
kill.”
He said it with understanding
good humor. It seemed to help
Mrs. Millington arrive at a
decision. She reached for a very
plain cotton frock which she
usually wore down the street for
her morning shopping, and
jerked it out.
Millington sat on the corner
of her bed, wanting his wife to
feel that he was being sympa-
thetic in what must be a difficult
situation for her. But having
gone so far in consideration, he
indulged himself by letting his
mind drift back to wistful, pre-
marriage days.
“It’s strange,” he said
presently, forgetting to stick to
his unrevealing voice, “how see-
ing those two young people to-
gether affects you.”
His wife jerked unrespon-
sively at fastenings.
“I don’t know if you ever
heard about Kitty Dicks ; she
was a chorus-girl I knew
slightly, long before we got
engaged.”
“Ever heard about her!”
Mrs. Millington exclaimed vin-
dictively. “You made the first
five years of our marriage hell,
continually talking about her.”
“Did I? Surely not! I can’t
remember once mentioning her.
I’m sure I didn’t! ”
“And just what makes you
mention her now, of all times?”
“Oh, why—well . . . this girl
rather reminds me of her.”
“You only needed to tell me
that! ”
“But that’s not fair. You
don’t know her yet. You must
be fair to her ; and to Harvey.”
“It’s just the chorus-girl
chaser coming out in him. Men
are all alike.”
TJarvey was shocked at how:
his mother had dressed to
receive his girl-friend. At first
he thought she had done it to
show Brownie that she was of
no importance to her ; but dur-
ing the dinner, particularly dur-
ing pauses in the conversation,
he realised there was more in it
than that: Brownie’s bangles
and earrings seemed to rattle
and clatter, while her frock
rustled and glistened with
increasing ostentation.
But Mrs. Millington was
smiling at Harvey; the conscien-
tious hostess. So he could never
be sure whether it wasn’t sheer
misadventure that each time he
or his father contrived a conver-
sation of any warmth with
Brownie Mrs. Millington
should happen to cut in to press
more food or drink on her or
them. Then when the meal was
over, she took the young girl to
sit on the lounge-room sofa
with her, and embarked on a
conversation of her own:
Did she like living here?
And why ever not? Why on
earth should she imagine that
the women of the town should
persecute her? But Mrs. Bar-
nard was an old friend of the
family! To her, the accusation
seemed completely ridiculous!
But she wouldn't talk about
touchy things like that.
Where was she staying?
Wasn’t that the place where
they had the big scandal a few
years ago? Oh yes, Harry, I
know things might have
changed since then. But a girl
can’t be too careful . . .
“Let me see, now —what did
I want to ask you? Oh, I
know. What does your father
do?”
“He drives a taxi.”
“On, I beg your pardon. Did
you say he drives a taxi?”
“There’s nothing wrong with
driving a taxi, Mother.”
“I know there isn’t. But it
—it was such a surprise.”
• “it’s his own taxi. He had
to pay thousands for the
plate.”
“Well, did he now! ”
“He has a couple of lurks,
too.”
"Goodness me! What in the
world are ‘lurks’?”
“Well, we live in Randwick,
so he knows a lot of book-
makers and racing men. I
don’t know exactly what he
does —he won’t tell us. But
he brings home colossal rolls
now and then.”
“Just fancy that! I must say
(Continued on page 44)
TWO KINDS OF
SHEPHERD
Inevitably
And amorously
They sit on the rocks
And watch their flocks.
Them shepherds do.
And never a ewe
Or ram
Or lamb
But eats and fattens
In Bucolics of the Latins.
They die of thirst or suicide
Them shearers who reside
Far from a loving home
In a Henry Lawson poem.
While the sheep are fly-blown
And the paddocks burr-grown
And all is ruins
In his rustic runes
That verges
On dirges.
Q.
R. G. HAY.


AKE you
Does promotion come always to the fellow who laughs loudest
at the boss’s corny jokes?
Hardly! Promotion usually comes to the person who merits it
•—the person most qualified to till the position.
Success in your occupation . . . your social life . . . life in general
. . . depends upon so many things. Upon knowledge . . . efficiency . . .
personality . . . good health . . . and so forth. How important a part
would you suggest that your memory is playing in your possession of
knowledge . . . your general all-round efficiency . . . your personality?
A MIGHTY IMPORTANT PART! Do you not agree? Sober, unbiassed
reflection will set you rocking back upon your heels with the realization
that Ail THE KNOWLEDGE WHICH YOU POSSESS can be placed to
the credit of your memory! Knowledge comes to you from many
sources—from what you read and see and hear and are told about . . •
from your experiences . . . from your thoughts and ideas. Or rather,
from what you remember of what you see and hear and read!
From what you RE MEM BER of your experiences! From what you
R E M E M B E R of what you are told! From what you REMEMBER
of your thoughts and ideas! Agreed?
Five years ago John was a clerk with a leading Airlines company.
Today he is one of their top-flight executives. Five years ago John
invested in the well-respected "TRENT” course— “YOUß MEMORY!
HOW IT WORKS ! HOW TO USE IT!”— he hasn’t looked back since.
When you receive your free copy of the 16-page booklet “To Tell You
About ‘Trent,’” you will learn of the successes of many, many others
who thought it a well worthwhile investment to outlay the few guineas
that would result in their gaining the joys, the privileges, the
benefits of a thoroughly reliable memory.
“THE PERSON V/HO FORGETS IS USUALLY FOR-
GOTTEN . . . THE PERSON WHO REMEMBERS IS
USUALLY ‘REMEMBERED’ . . . WHEN PROMOTIONS
ARE DUE!”
Now in its sixth edition. “TRENT” is not repeat N O T - one of those
old-fashioned memory-training courses which rely upon 30-year-old
mental “gimmicks.” The course consists of SEVEN lessons . . .
complete HO M E Instruction. The latest edition came from the presses
as recently as January last, and contains all the latest findings in the
understanding and correct use of your memory powers.
“TRENT” is the course which you read about as having been voluntarily
submitted to the Criminal Investigation Department of the N. 5.11. Police
Department, who put it through a most rigid testing. “TRENT” came
through all these tests with flying colours . . . newspapers and magazines
in many parts of the world featured the success story, and enquiries
soon came flooding in from countries thousands of miles away.
SPECIAL SECTIONS IN “TRENT”
Space does not permit that we list ALL the various sections in
the SEVEN Booklets comprising the course, but here are a few
to go on with: —
HOW TO REMEMBER: people’s names and faces . . ,
appointments . . . interviews . . . instructions . . .
figures and numbers (you are guaranteed absolute
accuracy with figures of any kind) . . . details from
reports, interviews, meetings, lectures, speeches, con-
ferences, etc. . . important points from your reading,
trade journals, magazine articles, reports, instructions,
text and reference books —ANY of your serious reading
. . . formula* and equations , . . word-for-word memoris-
ing (lodge ritual, actors’ lines, TV scripts, etc.) ... to
“anchor” and recall at will the stray thoughts and ideas
that come to you at all kinds of inconvenient times . . .
correct spelling . . . languages . . . blue-prints, drawings,
plans, etc. . . . short or long lists of things—in correct
-order . . . unusual, strange, foreign and academic words
and names . . . where you leave things , . . important
things which you see or hear or are told about . . .
measurements . . . definitions . . . combinations which
usually confuse you . . . playing cards . . . music—in
short, ANYTHING AT ALL that you want to remember.
STUDENTS: Please be reminded that “TRENT” will take the
drudgery out of your studying by showing you HOW to study!
Will cut out the slog, slog, slog, and reduce considerably the
time spent upon studying.
“TRENT” can
help you to ...
$ Grasp important facts, instruc-
tions, new techniques, etc.,
quickly.
H Cut your studying time by a
third or more.
0 Become more mentally alert.
0 Improve your ability generally.
® Increase your general know-
ledge.
II Strengthen your powers of
concentration.
1
■ •• Vi
ARE YOU
STUDYiNG
FOR EXAMS?
Featured in tlie “TRENT”
course is tlie application of
memory to tlie subject of
STUDY. Adult education
students (accountancy, nurs-
ing, Public Service, Armed
Forces, etc.) . . . University
students . . . parents of school
children . . . are strongly
recommended to make sure of receiving a copy of tlie 16-page
companion booklet “Are You Studying For Exams?” Just place
a tick alongside the appropriate “student” ... or “parent” . . «
when completing the coupon below.
Is it not true that—“NINETY PER CENT. OF
THE FEAR OF EXAMS. IS BUT THE FEAR OF
‘FORGETTING’ ?”
When you receive your booklet you will learn of “TRENTED”
students who have cut their studying time by as much as THIRTY
PER CENT. —AND MORE! Besides cutting out the drudgery and
monotony of study.
FREE BOOKLETS!
“TO TEEE YOU ABOUT ‘TRENT’ ” is a FREE IG-page booklet
for the benefit of all those desirous of gaining the- benefits and
privileges of a thoroughly reliable memory. (Kindly, place a
tick against “general” in the coupon.)
“ARE YOU STUDYING FOR EXAMINATIONS?” is a 16-page
booklet which should be in every home where there are school
children or students. It is sent to you—FREE OF CHARGE.
(Kindly place a tick alongside “parent” or “student” in the
coupon below.)
The booklets and accompanying literature cost you nothing, and
place you under no obligation whatsoever.
The coupon is for your convenience, but by all means write,
phone or call if you prefer.
“Trent” Mind & Memory Development Pty. Ltd.,
214 Pitt Street, Sydney; and at 61 Market St., Sydney.
MA 5686, BM 6392, JB 4857.
Guarantee
witto
every
Course
“TRENT” Mind and Memory Development Pty. Ltd.,
Box 4578, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Kindly post to me, without obligation, full details of your
course of instruction.
Mr., Mrs., Miss, Dr., Rev
FULL ADDRESS
(PRINT CLEARLY, PLEASE)
General
Student
Parent


Oilmen in Arabistan
By L. OWEN
Much has been written about
Middle East oil since four-
o’clock in the morning on May
26, 1908, when —very much to
the surprise of everyone except the drillers
on the spot —a strong flow of petroleum
gushed from Masjid-i-Sulaiman No. 1
well at the depth of 1180 ft.
It falls to Wayne Mineau in The Go
Devils (Cassell, London), 50 years later,
to produce a volume describing the per-
sonalities involved, whose record is now
almost forgotten. The book is written
after the style of a “gossiping guide,”
adequately illustrated with photographs,
which makes most of it easy reading ; the
going becomes a little hard where the
author deals with technicalities with
which he is admittedly unfamiliar.
In general, the picture drawn is com-
mendably accurate, and it is obvious, as
stated in the preface, that the book “has
in no way been sponsored by the oil
industry or any oil ‘interests,’ and no
oil-company has scanned the manuscript
before publication.” On the other hand,
most of the intimate details with refer-
ence to the earlier pioneers have been
obtained from relatives, or from a few
surviving employees, of the then-
adolescent Arabistan oil-companies. Had
such information been obtained from
outside sources it would have led to
better-balanced portraits.
As I knew many of the Persian pioneers
intimately, I feel justified in modifying
some of the judgments.
Not surprisingly, the book opens with
a sympathetic biography of William
Knox D’Arcy ; it is questionable, how-
ever, if many of his contemporaries
regarded him as anything more than a
high-living and very persistent gambler
who -was saved from losing his (and other
people’s) money by inordinate luck.
Not surprisingly, also, almost a full
chapter is devoted to George Bernard
Reynolds ; but what is otherwise a fair
portrait is marred by overemphasis on
G.B.’s grumpiness and tactlessness.
Even in Venezuela, in his sixties,
Reynolds could not be described as
churlish and truculent; his treatment in
Persia had disgruntled and soured him,
but he still made friends with any dedi-
cated man who was trying to do a sound
job. G.B.’s particular hates were
inefficiency and “nephews.”
In 1901, when he was in his late
forties, he must have been in his physical
and mental prime. I imagine him as a
wonderful worker, confident of his own
ability and, not unnaturally, impatient
of interference by persons not possessing
his competence. That explains why
head-office moguls described him as
“tactless.”
There is no point, today, in reviving
the Cadman-Cargill feud, but it is certain
that G.B. knew —both before and after
the Masjid-j-Sulaiman “strike” that
continual attempts were being made to put
him on the skids.
Reynolds’s case was by no means
unique. Similar injustice has been meted
out to many pioneers by directors lack-
ing knowledge of local conditions and
problems, in other oilfields the world
over ; geologists who dared to question
head-office dicta have suffered particu-
larly.
From 1908 onwards a flood of execu-
tives and technicians —mostly lacking in
oilfield experience—was poured into
Arabistan. The outstanding members
(and some others) of this company have
their records inscribed in The Go Devils,
but it is doubtful if many of them would
be remembered were it not for the unan-
ticipated development of Middle East oil.
This rapid development was due to
geological peculiarities which nullified
the effect of misinterpretation from
surface evidence of structure at depth
and, later, allowed a reasonably correct
section of the producing horizon to be
drawn from seismic data.
Very wisely, the author switches any
evaluation of Mr. “Five-per-cent.” Gul-
benkian’s character to the reader by quot-
ing a series of contradictory extracts from
other publications. As to Frank Holmes,
it is difficult to understand why he was
given as much space as was Reynolds.
Holmes differed from D’Arcy mainly by
the fact that he worked on a shoestring
and lived on the spot. What success he
achieved was primarily owing to the
striking of fresh-water on Bahrain Island
in 1924 —and that was done by geologist
Madgwick.
About 1926 a tightening-up occurred
on the Persian oilfields, and the rejects
of the post-1908 deluge descended —like
a cloud of locusts —on the oilbelt which
extends from Trinidad to Ecuador. It
speaks volumes for the resilience of the
oil industry that its South American
section did not perish in the invasion.
In fact, it turned the other cheek by send-
ing to Persia such competent operators
as Merrill M. Stuckey.
The hardships of the desert, by the
way, are greatly overstressed, and do not
compare with the discomforts of working
in rain-forest areas. If the accounts of
desert transit and adventure in The Go
Devils are accurate, desert-craft amongst
the resident “air-conditioned pioneers”
(I use the term employed in the book)
must be almost non-existent.
Reading between the lines, the self-
induced pettiness of the smaller oil
communities particularly among the
womenfolk in their luxurious air-
conditioned cages is very obvious. So
also is the degradation, by unmerited
wealth and Egyptian teachers, of the Arab
—whose good qualities, with rare and
notable exceptions, were never anything
lo write home about
To anyone who has lived in that
dreary country, the most unsatisfactory
parts of the book are those dealing with
Saudi Arabia (which, admittedly, the
author did not visit) and with ARAMCO.
The Arabian-American public-relations
men must have let their imaginations run
riot, and the Jablonski appreciation of
King Saud is blurb.
In spite of these things* 77ze Go Devils
is a book well worth reading.
Post-revolutionary Hungary
[From London]
r T''o all those who hate tyranny and
sympathise with the oppressed,
“Hungary Under Soviet Rule"’ makes
grim and discomforting reading. This
report, prepared by the American Friends
of the Captive Nations in association with
kindred bodies, brings the record up to
the beginning of September, 1957.
It is surprising, and not altogether to
the point, that the editors have devoted
so much space to proving that Soviet
intervention dates back to 1944 and in
postulating the wholesale violations of
human rights. Surely there is no need
to convince the West, least of all
Americans, that Communism is tyranny.
After all, why did the Hungarians revolt?
More immediately revealing is the later
evidence, based on monitored broadcasts,
on the controlled press and on intelli-
gence culled from letters, smuggled docu-
ments and from Hungarians who
managed to escape.
That Hungary is “neither more nor less
than a Soviet military protectorate” is
clear enough from the military and para-
military dispositions: the Soviet army,
the M.V.D., the Hungarian Secret Police,
the Frontier Guards, the “workers’
militia” and the newly-organised Hun-
garian army. This amounts to the
Russian soldier, a Hungarian soldier and
an M.V.D. man, or Soviet technician, to
every 100 Hungarians.
A “conservative estimate of the Soviet-
Kadar terror” in 10 months is 2000
executed, 20,000 imprisoned, 15,000 in
forced-labor camps, 10,000 deported
internally and 12,000 (mostly youth)
deported to Russia. And it is a sad fact
that “the mass-arrests and persecutions
are being carried-out for the most part
by Hungarians, ostensibly under orders
of a Hungarian Government.”
The Hungarian people are bitter against
the West, both for its incapacity to help
them and for its trading with the Kadar
regime.
But the majority are even more bitterly
anti-Soviet. All recent reports “indicate
the existence of a nation-wide campaign
of passive resistance.” In this connection,
the anxiety of the occupying Power is
manifest. All printed-matter, including
catalogues and calendars, must receive
Governmental permission; duplicating-
machines can't be even repaired with-
out special authority; and because of
the writing on walls by schoolchildren of
anti-Soviet slogans, the teachers’ chalk
has to be concealed after lessons.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The "Cup" Carnival
Cup Week in Melbourne
begins with the Derby-day pro-
gramme at Flemington next
Saturday. Over the four days
the V.R.C. will distribute
£62,000 stakemoney.
The Cup, unrivalled in tradi-
tion as the most important
handicap in the Australian
calendar, is this year worth
£15,000, plus trophy valued at
£5OO.
The grip the “Cup” holds
on Melbourne citizens never
fails to intrigue most visitors.
For a few minutes next Tues-
day the life of the city will
virtually cease. Tram-drivers
will leave their vehicles be-
tween stops, to sprint to a
loudspeaker; motorists will
pull over to the kerb ; at the
district cricket-grounds the
game will be forgotten. This
writer recalls that, at his school,
lessons were suspended while
the race was broadcast over
the loudspeaker-system.
Back in 1890 Carbine (“Old
Jack”) lumped 10.5 to win his
Cup, and that record still
stands. Indeed only two
others —Archer, 10.2 (1862),
and Poitrel, 10.0 (1920)—have
won with lOst. or more. Comic
Court (1950) and Evening Peal
(1956) share time-honors
3.194,
Four-year-olds have won 27
Cups; five-year-olds, 25;
three-year-olds, 23; six-year-
olds, 14 ; aged horses, 8. In
his long career Bobby Lewis
rode four Cup winners. He
scored on The Victory in
1902, and 25 years later won
his fourth on Trivalve. Darby
Munro, Jack Purtell and W. H.
McLachlan all rode three
winners. E. deMestre, who
owned and trained Archer,
winner of the first two Mel-
bourne Cups, trained, in all,
five winners of the race.
• • • •
At time of writing, Sir Blink
is well fancied for this year’s
Cup. The colt faces a hard task
to win. With 7.12, he has 61b.
over the scale. Only one
three-year-old, Poseidon (1906),
has won the Caulfield-Mel-
bourne Cups double. In that
year Poseidon also won both
Derbys. It is now 17 years
since a three-year-old (Skipton)
won the Cup, and in that time
only two three-year-olds—
Fresh Boy, second in 1947, and
Prince Darius, second last year
—have been placed in the big
race.
• • • •
When nominations were de-
clared for this year’s Cup the
now-four-year-old Red Pine
was still a maiden. Since then
he has won three handicaps,
and in the Coongy Handicap at
Caulfield beat Humber Hawk
and Pandie Sun, who filled the
minor placings in the Caulfield
Cup a few days later. With
“Hullo, dear, have you seen my bat anywhere?”
only 7.4, he is weighted to win
the Cup. He will get the two
miles comfortably. His sire,
Woodburn, won the Cesare-
witch (2 } miles), and his dam,
Sweet Folly, is by St. Magnus.
• • * •
However, in looking for the
Cup winner it is hard to go past
Yeman. His New Zealand
form proves that the two miles
will not trouble him, and his
Cox Plate win last Saturday
indicates that he is at his best.
His time in the Wellington
Cup—3.l9—is better than the
record for the Melbourne Cup.
SELECTIONS
THE DERBY: Sir Blink, 1 ;
But Beautiful, 2; Stormy
Passage, 3.
L. K. S. MACKINNON
STAKES: Lord, 1 ; Prince
Darius, 2 ; Lord Gavin, 3.
MARIBYRNONG PLATE:
Royal Artist, 1 ; Repeal, 2;
Endure, 3.
THE MELBOURNE CUP:
Yeman, 1 ; Red Pine, 2; Sir
Blink, 3.
• • •
Since San Martin won in
1944 only two Victorian horses,
Alister (1950) and Sailor’s
Guide (1955), have won the
Victoria Derby. Sydney colts
have won the classic in six of
the last seven years, but the
Victorians Sir Blink and the
filly But Beautiful seem the best
chances in this year’s Derby.
Frances Tressady (1923) was
the last filly to win the race.
Prizemoney for the Derby
next Saturday is £7OOO.
In recent years the 10-fur-
longs w.-f.-a. L. K. S. Mac-
kinnon Stakes has thrown some
light on the Cup. Comic Court,
Delta and Rising Fast presaged
their Cup wins with success
in the Stakes.
• • • «
The balance of an excellent
day’s racing on Derby Day is
made up of the 13-furlongs
Hotharo Handicap (a sound
Cup guide), the £l5OO Wake-
ful Stakes (a 10-furlongs event
for fillies, which usually gives
a preview of the Oaks), the mile
£2OOO Cantala Stakes (which
attracts the best rnilers in the
land) and the six-furlongs
Smithfield Handicap (for three-
year-olds).
• • • •
Although his New Zealand
record proves he is a first-class
galloper—he won the two-
miles Auckland Cup in 3.20
2/5 and the Wellington Cup in
3.l9—Yeman has never been
rated a weight-for-age horse;
which is why he went out at a
friendless 33 to 1 in the £5500
W. S. Cox Plate at Moonee
Valley last Saturday. But the
track —hock-deep in mud—
turned the 10 furlongs of the
Plate into a severe test of
stamina, and Yeman can stay
all day. Second-last with half-
a-mile to go, his staying-power
told from there on. He was in
a winning position at the turn,
and in the run home came away
to win convincingly. Book-
makers immediately returned
Yeman to the position he
occupied until a couple of
weeks ago—favorite for the
Melbourne Cup.
• • • •
Yeman was ridden by Les
Whittle, who is now 46, and
was riding before most of his
opponents in the Plate were
born—-and the Cox Plate was
the first weight-for-age race
he had ever won!
• • • •
The conditions at the Valley
made the form hard to assess
accurately, though certainly
Yeman proved that he is the
horse to beat for the Mel-
bourne Cup prize. South Aus-
tralian colt Jordan ran dis-
mally—his record is better
than that, and perhaps a firmer
track will suit him. However,
he scarcely looked a Derby
hope. Prince Darius ran badly,
but it was surprising to see him
start —he is not a good horse in
the mud. The three-year-old
South Australian gelding
Stormy Passage did well as
runner-up—he could be a
place-chance in the Derby.
• • • •
A notable feature of this
year’s spring racing in Mel-
bourne has been the extra-
ordinary improvement shown
by Humber Hawk in the last
couple of weeks. Until this —
his sixth —year he was regarded
as a plodding stayer who occa-
sionally picked up a race of not


“THIS
DUPLICATOR
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
Has all the finest features
of high-priced imported
machines at, only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
’■National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plans,
Music, etc.
Built entircLy in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing. Agents—*
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W. C. Penfold & Co. Pty. Ltd.
. Norman Bros. Pty. Lid,
. . V&rdon Price Ltd.
• Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
much importance. But sud-
denly- he is a top-class handi-
capper. At Caulfield, on the
middle day of the Cup meet-
ing, he ran second to Red Pine
in the Coongy Handicap, then
took the minor money in the
Caulfield Cup, and last Satur-
day reaped the fruit of that
good form by winning the rich
Moonee Valley Cup.
There are several points of
similarity between Humber
Hawk and Yeman. Both are
six-year-olds, both chestnut
entires, and both New Zealand-
bred. Humber Hawk is by
Faux Tirage from Super Snipe.
Faux Tirage, of course, was the
sire of last year’s Melbourne
Cup winner, Straight Draw.
Humber Hawk, on his present
form, has every chance of
crediting his sire with the dis-
tinction of getting successive
Cup winners. That, however,
has happened several times —
William Tell, St. Albans, Gozo,
Wallace and Night Raid all
sired successive winners of the
big race.
At Rosehill
Owners R. C. Read and his
wife have started well in their
partnership in the current
Sydney two-year-old season,
having already won two races
—Chateau Clair taking the
A.J.C. Widden Stakes for them,
and Romani landing the money
in last Saturday’s Rosehill
Maiden for colts and geldings.
Chateau Clair cost 425gns. and
Romani 400gns. as yearlings at
the Randwick sales. Both
youngsters are trained at Rose-
hill by Jack Daniels. Romani’s
time, 56sec., was a quarter of
a second outside the race-
record made by Daily Paper
seven years ago. He’s a bay
colt by Damtar (Fr.) from
Dictate by Talking.
Merry Liz, easy winner of
Rosehill’s Maiden Stakes for
two-year-old fillies, drew the
outside position, thought by
many to be far too wide for the
sprint scamper of 4± furlongs,
29yds. At that track, how-
ever, there’s a straight run for
about two furlongs, and Merry
Liz managed to start quickly
and get over to the rails before
the home-turn was rounded.
Raced by Mrs. E. T. Sturgess,
the filly is by Wiggle’s sire,
Rego (imp.), and is from Sweet
Spray by Cold Shower, tracing
back to Prince Foote.
With a weak field against him
in the Rosehill Flying, the best
price offered about Cornelius
was 6 to 4 on, and he started
even shorter, but in a photo-
finish went down to outsider
Jester, with Belarco third.
Cornelius had beaten Grey
Ghost and Rightway at his
prior start at Randwick on
October 6 a field much
superior to the Rosehill line-up.
Maybe M. Schumacher didn’t
make enough use of his speed,
and in the closing stages
appeared rather too confident.
On the other hand, it was
vigorous riding by B. Howlett
that got Jester home a costly
nose to the good. The rise in
weights from 7.7 to 8.4 could
also have been a slight contri-
butor to the defeat of Cor-
nelius, as his next run should
show.
Compass had his first win in
open company when he
defeated Coal and Tranquilette
in the Army Handicap at Rose-
hill —and, at that, R. Selkrig
had to declare 31b. over the
allotted weight of 7.4. Com-
pass was the second Rosehill
winner for local trainer Tom
Kennedy, the other being
Royal Heroic in the Auburn
Stakes. Kennedy said he would
set Compass for the A.J.C.
Summer Cup in December.
There are not many good
stayers about, and Compass
should get into that event with
a moderate weight. He’s a
four - year - old gelding by
Channel Swell (imp.) from
Midsuma by Midstream (imp.).
Short Stop, well ridden by
Tom Hill, ran a good race to
win the Rosehill Welter in a
photo-finish, with Nearco Lad
a nose away and Flag Top a
close third.. Despite his 9.13,
Short Stop was always near the
lead. At his prior outing he
had been downed by Royal
Kingdom at Randwick in fast
time for six furlongs, and the
7} furlongs at Rosehill was
much more to his liking.
Thurlow, from Queensland,
was solidly backed, but found
the journey too far, after lead-
ing on straightening up for
home. He could win at six
furlongs in similar company.
Randwick trainer Pat
Murray was another to have
two wins at Rosehill —with
Jester, and with New Farm in
the Second Parramatta Stakes.
New Farm is a speedster, the
main doubt about him being
whether he could run out the
seven furlongs. That he did
without trouble, and he’s no
longer eligible for restricted
class. B. Howlett, who was
on both winners, is riding in
fine form.
• • • •
Count Fall, from the Rose-
hill stable of M. F. Anderson,
gave opponents a galloping
lesson in the First Parramatta
Stakes, clearing out to win
easily in 1.251 —fast for a
restricted event, and not far
from New Spec’s record. (New
Spec, by the way, is sprinting
freely at Rosebery after a spell,
and it won’t surprise if he
quickly has a win when trainer
Leo O’Sullivan has him racing
again.) Count Fall is a New
Zealand-bred three-year-old by
Count Rendered (imp.) from
Sunfall, and can win one more
race in similar company before
going into open class. He
shouldn’t have any trouble
about that.
Two days before he returned
to New Zealand veteran
trainer A. D. (Doug) Webster,
who has made many Tasman
crossings and enjoyed much
success with his team of.horses,
won the Hawkesbury Club's
First Maiden Handicap with
Sydney-owned Kupe. It was
Firstacre, known as the “iron”
horse, who made Webster
famous many years ago. Kupe
is a three-year-old gelding by
Marco Polo II (imp.) from
Rudabeh, an unraced mare by
Nizami (imp.) from Rippling
Waters by Chief Ruler (imp.).
• • • •
By winning Hawkesbury’s
Second Improvers’ Handicap
New State earned £95, a
good return for what he cost
his owner, Mrs. N. Bodkin—
he was first-prize in a
2s. charity raffle. Actually,
he’s a pricey-enough youngster,
having cost 2600gns. as a year-
ling at the Randwick sales last
year. By Newtown Wonder
(imp.) from Miss Legion by
Legionnaire (imp.), New State
should quickly add to his
earnings.
• • • . •
Delsound, short - priced
favorite and easy winner of the
Hawkesbury Second Maiden,
is a four-year-old by Delville
Wood (imp.) from Sweet
Sound by Magpie (imp.). A
brother to Hydrogen, he’s bred
well enough to win anything,
and more should be heard of
him.
Myastra, easy winner of a
Two-year-old Handicap at
Doomben last Saturday, is by
The Magistrate (imp.) from
Astra by Sea Tonic (imp.) from
Nyastra by The Night Patrol
(imp.). Astra didn’t race, but
her half-sister, Quinox, won
races in four States —at Canter-
bury, at Moonee Valley, and,
over the jumps, a Hurdle in
Tasmania and a Steeplechase
in South Australia. The Magis-
trate, winner of five races in
England, is a son of Court
Martial, who was England’s
leading sire in 1956 and 1957.
Trots
Crack Bega pacer Fettle
added one more race to his
already imposing list' when he
held off the challenge of
champion mare Sibelia to win
last Saturday night’s Harold
Park Free-for-all by a neck
in near-record time for the lli
furlongs, 3min. Bsec. —two-
fifths of a second outside the
record set by Mineral Spring
two years ago. The win was
Fettle’s tenth in a row at
Harold Park in a little over
two seasons of racing. Start-
ing from the pole-line in the
front row, he was never headed.
Sibelia drew the second line
and settled down in sixth place,
about seven lengths behind the
leader. With half a circuit to
go, she went to the outside
and in a withering run got
close to Fettle at the home-
turn, but in a hard race
down the straight, Fettle was a
neck too good. Fettle is now
favorite for next Friday night’s
£SOOO Spring Cup, in which he
meets Sibelia on 24yds. better
terms.
Making it four in a row,
Apmat won the fifth qualify-
ing division of the Carnival
Handicap after breaking badly
at the start. Pacing brilliantly,
in a slow-run race, he went to
the lead about two furlongs
from home, to win by two
lengths from Blue Goose, with
Coronation Scott a close
third. Apmat is now strongly
fancied for the £2OOO Final on
Friday.
Scratch-marker Jenny won
the £IOOO Trotters’ Cup by two
lengths from Care, with Master
Mercer a close third. Giving
a faultless exhibition of trot-
ting, she ran the 15 furlongs
and 95yds. in the fairly fast


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— Ik Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO KESTUTIS SASNYS late of C/o
Mines Department Radium Hill in the
State of South Australia.—TAKE
NOTICE that BRIGITA SASNYS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3557
of 1957 on the grounds of desertion
without just earise or excuse for three
years and upwards and is asking for the
exercise of the Court’s discretion under
Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial
Causes Act 1899 If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry The Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by the 23rd
December 1958 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. WARWICK JOHNSON, DYCE
& TUCKFIELD, Solicitors, of 77a Han-
bury Street, Mayfield, or their City
Agents, Messrs. F. W. HALL k EDGING-
TON, Solicitors, of 77 King Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
m
k
M
i
mm-.
mm
m
Z)L Pen wi th the
WarJLs
14 carat GM
Every Conway Stewart Pen is
fitted with a genuine
14 carat gold nib.
Every Conway Stewart Pen is
fully guaranteed.
Every Conway Stewart Pen is
excellent value.
Ask your Retailer
he knows.
The No. 85L
42 7 6
-
The Conway Stewart
No. 15 at 29/6
No. 12 at 35/-
No. 76 at 60/-
CONWAY STEWART & CO. ITP., LONDON
time of 4min. 20fsec. After
being the leader early, Jenny
settled down behind favorite
Sonatol (24yds. behind) and
held her position to the home-
turn. When Sonatol broke
entering the straight Jenny
had the race in her keeping.
Beating Colonist and
Blanche’s Best in the third
heat of the £2OOO Spring
Handicap, First Kiss proved
himself a very strong con-
tender for the final on Friday.
First Kiss won easily in
3.395.
* * *
The Cricketers
Against the advice of some,
Norm O’Neill accepted the
invitation Jo play with the
Combined XI v. M.C.C. in
Perth, and fully vindicated his
own judgment with a masterful
innings against an attack led
by Trueman, Statham and
Laker. Though this innings
alone is not a complete guaran-
tee that he has won his inter-
national spurs, he can hardly
be left out of Australia's
team for the first Test, who-
ever else be omitted.
• • • •
M.C.C.’s first-innings batting
shows its dependence on the
1954-55 Test mainstays, May
and Cowdrey. The skipper
made 113, batting for half his
innings with a damaged knee,
and Cowdrey 78 ; Evans made
a handy 55. W.A. medium-
pacer Strauss took 5-99.
The three eastern States
players who were in the Com-
bined XI game against the
1954-55 M.C.C. team were lan
Johnson (who led the side),
Harvey and Hole. Harvey
failed (3 and 8), as did Johnson
with the bat (2 and 10), while
Hole made only 4 and 33 ; but
Johnson bowled well, 3-44 off
22.6 overs, and led the side
capably (though the M.C.C.
won easily, by an innings and
62 runs).
• • • •
Like O’Neill, Johnson was
advised not to go West; and
a failure there would undoubt-
edly have knocked him out of
the running for the Tests. As
it was, he went on to lead Aus-
tralia in the ’54-55 Tests and
justified his selection, even
though Australia lost the series.
But O’Neill could go to
greater things than Johnson
achieved.
• • • •
N.S.W. made a round 500
against Queensland in Brisbane
in the opening 1958-59 Shield-
match. Harvey, in his first
game for N.S.W., made a bril-
liant 160, and looked as if he
would pass his previous-best
Shield score, 209, made against
N.S.W. in Sydney in January,
1957. (Harvey’s dismissal,
caught by ’keeper Grout after
Lyons, in slips, had lost the
ball, recalls that Grout’s great
predecessor, Tallon, brought-
off more than one smart catch
in a like manner.) Though
several of N.S.W.’s acknow-
ledged batsmen didn’t add
much to the 500, Burke (like
May, 113) and Davidson (70)
did, and the last two, Rorke
and Wyatt, added 74 —Wyatt
has made a few respectable
Shield scores, including 40 in
the game in which Harvey
made the 209 against him.
• • • e
The equivalent N.S.W.-
Queensland match last season
resulted in an easy first-innings
win for Queensland ; almost an
outright victory. N.S.W., 165
and 8-252; Q., 9-478. There
were two centuries for the
Northerners —opener Ray Rey-
nolds, 174, and 42- (or more)
year - old all - rounder Wal
W a 1 m s 1 e y, 106 not-out.
Walmsley, coming in No. 10,
figured in two century-partner-
ships: 120 with Reynolds for
the ninth wicket and an
unfinished 105 (with Freeman,
55 not-out) for the last wicket.
“Veryl”: Some good
batting-efforts from Sydney’s
grade-cricket on Saturday —•
Jan Craig's “comeback” (after
illness) 105, made as an open-
ing-bat after Mosman had lost
2-0; former Test - opener
Arthur Morris’s 116—he’s .been
among the runs in this his first
season for several years ; 100
by promising left-hand bat
Neil Marks, son of Alec who
represented N.S.W. at both
cricket and Rugby Union —•
Neil Marks now has an aver-
age of 105, with three centuries
and only one not-out innings
(and that for only 14) in five
knocks; former State batsman
Ron Kissell’s 126 ; and 59, in
his first first-grade game, by St.
George’s Reg Gasnier, who is
regarded as one of Sydney’s
outstanding Rugby League
prospects, though he’s yet to
play first-grade League.
* * *
“Regel”: Oswald J. O’Grady
(B. 15/10/’5B) was the only
Australian Rules league-foot-
baller in Adelaide to play in
glasses. Picked to play against
Victoria in Melbourne in 1927,
he intrigued the crowd, who
had never seen a league-foot-
baller wearing glasses before.
At that time S.A. also provided
the only Australian Test-
cricketer to play in glasses—
A. J. Richardson. England has
had at least one Test-cricketer
who wore glasses on the field —
fast-bowler Bill Bowes, one of
the few to bowl Bradman for a
“duck._”
“Spoke”: Hubert Opper-
man, former world-beating
endurance cyclist, retains his
close link with the sport in
spite of his duties as M.H.R.
for Corio. He coaches aspirants
for the State schoolboys’ title
(under 16) as well as promising
amateurs, and lectures and
describes road and track events
for a local radio-station.
“Oppy” was an early mentor
of the late Russell Mockridge,
and his efforts might unearth
another champion. But a
“Mocka” does not come along
every day of the year.
* * *
Sydney golfer Kel Nagle, by
adding the New Zealand pro-
fessional golf title to his Open
title, completed a double double
—he’d won both last year.
Nagle undoubtedly is one of the
greatest Australian golfers ever
to hit the little white pill, and
he must be close to being Aus-
tralia’s top-earning pro. The
N.Z. amateur title went to
16-year-old schoolboy Walter
Godfrey, youngest ever to
win it.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
CYPRUS
HPhree British comments on
the murder of a British
sergeant’s wife in Cyprus:
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“In Britain —and more under-
standably among soldiers in
Cyprus—there is bound to be
a feeling that evacuation of
wives and children from the
island should begin forthwith.
The Government’s decision not
to do so yet will not go unques-
tioned. Are more lives to be
lost before this ultimate pre-
caution is taken? It is right,
however, to recognise wider
considerations in a situation
that is costing lives almost
every day. This first attack on
British women is Eoka’s reply
to the ‘partnership’ plan. The
Government’s purpose and
still its hope—is to gain at
least the acquiescence of Greek
Cypriots, and so end the long
tale of bloodshed. The atrocity
in Famagusta was a provoca-
tion directed as much against
possible Greek compromisers
as against Britain.
“Eoka would exult if our
immediate reaction were to be
the evacuation of service
families, for that would ack-
nowledge a new phase of total
war and destroy all hope of
reconciliation among the
Cypriots and Greeks who are
desperately longing for it. The
hope must now be faint,
especially after Archbishop
Makarios’s message of
encouragement to the terrorists,
but to abandon it at once
would be to admit the com-
plete failure of the plan. Pro-
vided that every possible
measure is taken to protect
British women and children in
Cyprus, their continued
presence there is a symbol of
faith in our ability to restore
peace in the island.”
* * *
London “Time and Tide”:
“Everyone, even the Greek
Foreign Ministry, has expressed
shock and revulsion at the
murder of a British woman in
Cyprus: revulsion there should
be, but hardly shock. This sort
of brutality—and it was clearly
a planned cold-blooded murder
—is only the logical conse-
quence of the nationalist mad-
ness which rages in so many
parts of the modern world.
There can be no coming to
terms with it.
“The attack on the two
women seems to have been
specifically ordered by Eoka:
in which case it can have had
only one purpose. The terror-
ists knew what the reaction to
such a crime would be and
deliberately invited it. They
wanted British troops to be as
tough as possible. This is a
classic device of revolutionary
movements.
“The immediate object was
to make still less workable
any plan which involves co-
operation between the British
authorities and Greek Cypriots.
The lesson for Britain is clear.
The Foot - Macmillan plan,
however imperfect, must now
be carried through, for the
moment at least. Any further
hesitation or compromise
would only re-emphasise a
London "Daily Herald ”
MORE THAN ONE CROSS TO BEAR.
lesson which has been taught
too often lately: that the
British can always be made to
change their minds if you start
shooting people and throwing
bombs.”
* * * *
London “Spectator”: “On a
Sunday morning in November,
1920, 14 Britons were dragged
from their beds in Dublin and
shot. That afternoon British
troops retaliated by firing on
a crowd at a Dublin football
match, killing and wounding
many people: hundreds more
were injured in the panic that
followed. The day became
known, and is still remembered,
as Bloody Sunday ; and it had
a decisive influence on the
struggle in Ireland, in that it
brought Resistance and Terror
—two very different forces —
into unity: the unity which was
soon to convince Lloyd George
and his Cabinet that they had
no alternative but to withdraw
their Administration and forces
from the island.
“The circumstances i n
Cyprus today are not the same ;
but there are points of simi-
larity enough to suggest that
Black Friday, when the wife
of a British sergeant was shot
down and killed in cold blood,
and when the troops reacted
with what a newspaper corres-
pondent described as ‘a cold
fury the like of which he had
never seen before,’ will have a
similar effect.
“Terror is never popular,
even among the majority of
those who agree with its aims.
In Cyprus now, as it was in
Ireland, the number of sup-
porters of a terrorist policy is
small. The great bulk of the
population hates and fears
Eoka. Any policy designed to
crush Eoka must consequently
be designed to drive a wedge
between it and the people of
Cyprus. It must not merely
protect the passive majority;
it must also offer them a
reasonable alternative policy
that they can accept. If this
is not recognised—if men are
beaten-up indiscriminately for
the crimes of the terrorists —
they end by turning to terror
themselves as a last resort.”
Investment in
Australia
“A note of warning” (in a
letter to London “Financial
Times” from Sir J. B. Greaves)
to “individuals who may con-
template investing money in
Australia”:
“My experience as a trustee
of several estates has been most
unfortunate in respect of the
Australian investments held by
the deceased: • It is most fright-
fully difficult to get a change
of ownership registered, and
the most exorbitant fees are
charged by all concerned in
Australia for doing this —the
State and Commonwealth
Government and their solici-
tors whom one perforce has to
employ.”
Space Law
The proliferation of space-
lawyers who have arisen since
the first Sputnik are even up to
the stage of considering trans-
actions in space, crime in
space, property-rights, piracy,
etc. In fact, their activities have
moved a professor of interna-
tional law to remark that “I
am afraid a number of my
brethren at the Bar are
already in orbit. They are
travelling very fast and very
high in a circular path, and I
want them brought back to
earth as soon as possible.”
Noting these and other
matters in a “Foreign Affairs”
article, Philip W. Quigg, assis-
tant editor, comments that
“one criticism that may
properly be levelled at the
space-lawyers is that, in trying
to anticipate every conceiv-
able legal problem in outer
space, they have given very
little attention to some of the
most immediate ones”:
“For example, perhaps the
single most pressing question
—one likely to arise within less
than a year—is, what will be
the Soviet reaction to a
United States satellite mount-
ing a camera or television
equipment? For two years we
have been trying without
success to establish the
principle of ‘open skies.’ Now
both the United States and the
Soviet Union are working on
instruments which will impose


Ruffi isi ifae
B
r44iiM*e
The way to view a picture is to stand and look
at it from a distance, where detail can be made to
merge in the whole composition.
This elementary rule is my justification now
for saying something about the picture of Australia
as I see it at the moment. My present journey has
already taken me out of the country for some little
time. Such an absence, I believe, brings the national
perspective plainer to the eye.
Central in it is the fact that the Australian
outlook has never been brighter.
Our spectacular development since the last war
has attracted the interest and admiration of many
observers overseas. They have seen our population
grow in ten years by twenty-five per cent., helped by
a migration that is enriching our mode of life.
They see that the true extent of our natural
resources is only now starting to be realised. Their
interest in Australia as a field for productive
investment has been enlivened.
It is true that this general picture is toned with
problems; with fluctuations in the prices for our
exports, the need for wider markets, the level of
our production costs, the urgency of roads and of
the many other expansive works that are ahead of us.
But was there ever any achievement in which
problems, large and small, had not to be overcome?
Their solution is a test of our faith in our own
ability to win above them.
One strong impression I have gained while
abroad has been that our Australian effort should
never be allowed to weaken through any fear of
crisis in the world. History has proved that the
spiritual and material victors are those whose
inspired working to a goal produces results which
outlive the passing pressures of a time.
The changed that are taking place in the world
are swift and profound. Their effect must be to
raise the rate and intensity of our effort.
But I see nothing, within or without, that
should daunt us in going boldly ahead to make of
Australia a national masterpiece.
open skies with a vengeance—
unless reconnaissance satellites
can be, and are, shot down.
“We do not know the Soviet
capability. Indeed, we do not
even know for certain that
Russian satellites have not
already relayed photographs of
the United States to Moscow.
Nor are we likely to know
when this has been achieved,
while the Soviet Union will
quite probably know when our
first reconnaissance satellite is
put in orbit—if indeed they are
not told in advance. Will such
an American satellite
WILL SPENCER, IN LONDON “NEWS CHRONICLE.”
mysteriously disintegrate on
one of its early trips around
the other side of the world?
And will we be told it ‘must
have hit a meteor’?
“The situation is complicated
by the fact that the photo-
graphing of clouds is a long-
established and legitimate
activity in meteorology. Here
we have a precedent that is not
encouraging. Many Powers,
including the Soviet Union,
have for many years used high-
flying balloons for meteoro-
logical research. Travelling
at up to 90,000 ft., they are
capable of circumnavigating
the globe.
“In February, 1956, the
Soviet Union protested passage
of balloons through its air-
space. It first referred to
them as propaganda bal-
loons and objected that
they were a menace to naviga-
tion. But an exchange of notes
made clear that its real griev-
ance was not so much against
the propaganda balloons being
released under private auspices
in Western Europe as against
United States meteorological
balloons which did carry
cameras and could have been
either scientific or military in
purpose. While affirming their
scientific purpose, Mr. Dulles
refrained from asserting the
right of United States balloons
to pass through Soviet air-
space, and so far as is known,
the practice was at least tern-
porarily stopped.
“History may soon repeat it-
self. Almost all authorities are
agreed that an earth satellite is
a very cumbersome instrument
for delivering a nuclear bomb
on target, but its importance
for reconnaissance and for
communication, including
radio- and radar-jamming, is
not disputed. Since these
activities have both scientific
and military uses,, it is going to
be very difficult to distinguish
between them. But surely
these, rather than missile
weapons, represent the topic on
which negotiations with the
Russians might be important
and fruitful.”
Rocket Sites
Commenting on the sugges-
tion b Rear-Admiral George
T Thomson that rocket - sites
should be sea-borne rather
than i and _ baseds ‘ Yorkshire
Post » finds his argume nts
“simple and telling’’:
“As he points out, the Thor
rocket has not the ran gc to
reac h industrial areas of
Eastern Russia, but obviously
jf suc h medium-range rockets
were carried in ships their
chances of hitting areas which
are at present out of range
wou]d be greatl increased,
These mobile rocket-sites
would allow for the launching,
D f ba llistic rockets or guided-
missiies from p]aces much
nearer the objective, and the
effectiveness of such weapons
would pro bably be doubled
I&Trf.
]and . based sites He believes
that ‘the position of rocket-sites


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week.
in a democratic country will
inevitably become known, and,
whether above or below
ground, a rocket-site would not
survive a well-placed H-missile
in a surprise attack.’
“This is an extremely impor-
tant point. It is quite clear
that, in time, rocket-bases in
this country [Britain] would
become vulnerable targets for
the enemy. This is where sea-
based rocket-sites would have
an enormous advantage. Rear-
Admiral Thomson has sug-
gested that Britain should
start now to build new
carriers and cruisers ‘with part
of their flight-deck and part of
their accommodation and
armament earmarked for the
storage and launching of
guided - missiles or ballistic
rockets, neither of which has
any recoil.’ ”
Sixty Days Below
Commenting on the signifi-
cance of a U.S. atomic sub-
marine (the Seawolf) remaining
submerged for 60 days, “New
York Times” points out that
“for 60 days the men of the
Seawolf lived completely out
of contact with the atmos-
phere, in a medium as strange
and as deadly for the unpro-
tected human body as is outer
space.
“Key problems that were
handled successfully on this
voyage problems ranging
from efficient provision of an
adequate air-supply to the
maintenance of harmonious
co-operation among a large
body of men forced into inti-
mate, inescapable daily con-
tact —are not unlike the pro-
blems men will have to solve if
space-travel is ever to become
a reality.”
London “Daily Mail"
“BLAST THEIR CHAMPAGNE CORKS .”
To which London “Daily
Telegraph” adds: “Doubtless
the scientists will succeed in
creating the physical conditions
for human survival in projec-
tiles whirling through space.
But that is not the whole story.
The psychologist has also some-
thing to say about man’s reac-
tions to being cabined, cribbed
and confined in steel. Coca-
Cola cabinets, juke-boxes and
TV-films ranked along with
oxygen and vitamins as essen-
tial items of the Seawolf’s
equipment. Will there be room
enough for all these in space-
ships?”.
Crime and Punishment
One of the resolutions
chosen for debate at the British
Conservatives’ conference
was:
That this conference, recognising
that the disturbing increase in
criminal offences has shown the
failure of existing methods of
punishment and reform, calls for an
immediate review of the causes of
crime and the application of more
effective measures to reduce it.
That, comments “Man-
chester Guardian,” “could be
accepted by people holding dia-
metrically opposite views. But
other resolutions put down
make it clear what most Con-
servatives mean by ‘more
effective measures.’ They mean
hanging and flogging. Eleven
resolutions call specifically for
the reintroduction of corporal
punishment; seven for the re-
introduction of capital punish-
ment.
“It is true that there has
been a serious increase in
crimes of violence. Robbery
with violence, the only common
crime for which flogging has
been a punishment in recent
years, reached the high figure
of 890 cases in 1957. Its pre-
vious peak was in 1948, with
978 cases. Flogging was
abolished in September, 1948,
and robbery then fell away
steadily, and until this year
never touched 800 cases again:
in 1955 there were only 577
cases. Whatever has caused the
current increase, it is clearly
not the abolition of corporal
punishment.
“The course of murder is
more complex. The Homicide
Act came into effect in March,
J 957; and the number of
murders known to the police in
1957 was 151, or deducting
those subsequently found by
the courts to be cases of man-
slaughter, 142. In addition,
about a score of people were
charged with homicides which
would have ranked as murder
before 1957 (for instance,
suicide pacts and ‘diminished
responsibility’ cases), but which
now rank as manslaughter.
“These figures are substan-
tially more than in the preced-
ing 10 years or so. But there
are several caveats to be
observed before jumping to the
conclusion that the Homicide
Act is the cause of the increase.
“First, hanging was in fact
entirely suspended from the
autumn of 1955, while the pro-
longed debate initiated by the
Silverman Bill went on. The
latest increase followed the re-
introduction of hanging for
capital murder, not the suspen-
sion of hanging for all murder.
“Secondly, the great jump
in the number of murders came
in the three months following
March, 1957 ; there was then
a marked falling-off. Thirdly,
the figures for the first six
months of 1958 are understood
to be markedly better than for
1957, and comparable with
those for years in which capital
punishment was still in full
force. The Home Secretary
should stand firm against the
demand to bring the gallows
back.”
The Comet
De Havillands and 8.0.A.C.
came in for a lot of well-
merited congratulations for
being first in the field with a
jet-service (the Comet 4) across
the Atlantic—they narrowly
beat Pan American with its
Boeing 707.
Without stinting its praise,
London “Daily Telegraph”
adds, however, that “rightly or
wrongly the competition be-
tween Britain’s Comet and
America’s Boeing had been
interpreted by public opinion
as a race which, in the event,
Britain has won —if only by a
few weeks. Whether this is a
victory for this country's
aircraft construction and design
or merely a masterly stroke of
public - relations promotion
remains to be seen.
“Catching a newspaper head-
line by being the first in a new
field is one thing; catching
and holding public support by
making a new air - service
economically competitive is
another. Unlike the early bird
which snatches a decisive
advantage by getting in first’,
an early air-service gains little


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— -In Divorce.
TO RONALD RICHARD MARKS late of
N.vngan.—TAKE NOTICE that LORNA
MARGARET MARKS has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 2507 of 1958 on
the grounds of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or ex-
cuse If you wish to defend you may
file an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by r the 7th of
January 1959 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from HAROLD
MIDDLETON TAUBMAN, 66 King
Street Sydney.— J. DOUGHIS,
Registrar.
THE
COUNTRYMAN
AND HIS BANK
V ’
jr
t
1
<-.<*.-X^VASOOOWv.
m
m~
A
m
r.««4
"The C.B.C.
is an old friend"
Its long association with Australia’s primary industries
has given the C.B.C. a deep understanding of the country-
man’s financial problems. From this knowledge has grown
the friendly, helpful service for which this bank is so well
known.
Many countrymen and their families have found that
a C.B.C. Savings Account is very useful. Why not open
one to-day at your nearest branch?
The
Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C, Savings Bank Limited
(DEPOSITS GUARANTEED BY THE PARENT COMPANY)
unless it can maintain its lead
over the long haul. This,
unfortunately, is precisely
what the Comet 4 is unlikely to
do.
“No amount of flag-waving
can disguise the fact that while
the Comet carries a mixed load
of 48 first-class and economy
passengers across the Atlantic,
its American rival is expected
to be able to carry up to about
120 passengers. The truth is
that the Comet 4, not being
designed for the Atlantic cros-
sing, can be adapted for this
function only by sacrificing
passenger space. In the long
run this crucial disability will
inevitably allow the longer-
range Boeings, if not the
present model, to dominate the
route a development omi-
nously foreshadowed by the
news that 8.0.A.C. has itself
already ordered 15 of these
American aircraft.
“Such chastening reflections
may seem ill-timed on the
morrow of the Comet's pioneer-
ing achievement. But it is as
well to remember that civil
aviation is not a sport con-
cerned with making and break-
ing records. It is a commercial
industry primarily concerned
with making profits. Judged
by this real criterion Pan
American rather than 8.0.A.C.
are likely to have the last
laugh.”
U.S. Recovery
New York “Herald Tri-
bune’s” listing of signs “point-
ing toward a further increase in
the healthy [U.S.] recovery
already under way” :
“For the first time in nearly
two years, the Labor Depart-
ment’s employment study in
149 major cities showed the
number reporting increased
employment exceeded those
reporting decreased employ-
ment.
“Fifteen cities showed suffi-
cient gain since July to be re-
classified to a higher employ-
ment-rate category ; only two
—Binghamton, N.Y., and San
Bernardino, Calif. were
reclassified downward. A sur-
vey of employer-hiring plans
indicated a continuation of the
more favorable trend.
“Steel - production [has
risen] to the highest level since
last December, 67.3 per cent,
of capacity. It will rise still
more.
“Farm-equipment sales will
be considerably ahead of 1957,
10 leading makers predict.
Reason: favorable 1958 crops,
rising farm - income, bigger
farms. Six companies forecast
bigger gains in 1959.
“Chemical sales are rising.
August sales of chemicals used
for synthetic fibres showed a
particularly big rise.
“Industrial production has
come back 9 per cent, in four
months, recouping more than
half the decline in the preced-
ing eight months.
“Manufacturers’ new orders
topped shipments in July. This
signals a further step-up in
production.
“Department-store sales are
now running 3 per cent, ahead
of a year ago.
“Excess capacity is still hold-
ing-back plant-expansion, a
pivotal cog of the boom. It
has dropped about one-fifth in
the last year. But Federal
studies indicate a 24- per cent,
increase in the fourth quarter
of the year, marking an end to
the decline. Says the Chase
Manhattan Bank: ‘Most of
today’s idle capacity is due to
the recession rather than to a
basic overbuilding. And the
revival in demand could lead
to renewed expansion next
year, though at a lower rate
than in 1955-57.’”


it’s fascinating, to get a glimpse
into the secret life of a taxi-
driver. Most fascinating. But
tell me this, does your father
know any gangsters?”
“Now, Mother, please.”
“What's wrong with you,
silly boy? I was only joking.
Can’t 1 have a little joke with
your . . . friend?”
It seemed to go on for hours.
Harvey and his father went out
for air now and then.
IYText day at Tennyson's the
campaign against Brownie
developed a new intensity.
Young Tennyson was reluc-
tant to admit he had made a
mistake, but his figures soon
told him that. Most reluc-
tantly he gave-up the idea of
a smash-hit dress-parade when
it was insinuated into him that
most of his customers would
decline his invitation. More
acutely, several of the monthly
accounts were closed, leaving
such ugly gaps.
So Brownie got a polite note
in her pay-envelope about re-
luctant reductions in staff, etc.
She found a job in a small
frock-shop run by a shrewd
and enterprising woman who
catered for shoppers of good
taste without regard for their
social importance. For a while
Brownie felt safe there. She
got on very well with the
proprietress, and in a small
way did a bit of modelling at
last. But one day Mrs.
Barnard stuck her head in the
door, and recoiled with a
theatrical cry and hammy
gestures of horror.
When that sort of thing
happens half-a-dozen times
every day it has a demoralising
effect on a business. When it
is associated with a number of
Brownie’s middle-aged admirers
from her chain-store days
dropping into a frock-shop
where no men ever went
before, it lays a solid founda-
tion for a scandalous rumor
that the place is actually . . .
Now, how would a malicious
rumor like that start in a nice
town like ours?
The dress-shop proprietress
had no doubt who was respon-
sible. She instructed her
solicitor to make a heavy claim
for damages against Mrs.
Barnard.
Well, even those who were
secretly pleased had to fall
into line when a thing like
that happened. Responsible
citizens had a tremendous run-
iound, questioning the people
alleged to have heard the
rumor, leading them into
solicitors’ offices and persuad-
ing them to make sworn state-
ments that they hadn’t heard
what they thought they’d
heard: and that they hadn’t,
in their turn, told other people
what other people thought
they’d told therfi.
It was a near thing and
very dangerous to the town’s
morale ; to that intangible
but laboriously contrived front
which leading citizens depend
upon in emergencies ; to the
whole concept that our town
is unique and much-to-be-
preferred to any other town
or city in the State.
TJrownie left the dress-shop
out of consideration for
the owner, and with her assis-
tance got a job in a Greek
cafe.'
Mrs. Barnard and her
acquaintances relaxed a little,
their husbands trotting nicely
at heel now, too shattered over
the dress-shop scandal even to
think of following Brownie to
the cafe.
Mrs. Millington felt safer,
too. Even in a community as
democratic as ours, a line has
to be drawn somewhere; it
was taken for granted that the
sons of the best families did
not marry, or seriously com-
promise themselves with, cafe
waitresses.
Harvey saw Brownie on her
first morning at the new job ;
he’d just dropped-in for a cup
of coffee, and was startled to
see her arrive smilingly to take
his order.
He could have done several
things. He could have accepted
the situation in the same spirit
as Brownie had. Or, if he was
outraged at what his town was
doing, he could have taken
her right out of the cafe like
a movie-hero, driven away
with her in his car, and married
her in the next town. Quite a
big proportion of the towns-
people would have admired,
if reluctantly, a . bold stroke
like that; and his mother and
the rest of the women would
have had to make the best of it.
But he let the moment slip
by ; upset, no doubt, by his
conflicting loyalties and the
turmoil the town was making
over Brownie.
But he came in regularly for
his cup of coffee, and had long,
passionate discussions with her.
These discussions were re-
ported unfailingly to Mrs.
Millington, harassing her until
she telephoned Mrs. Barnard
for help.
Then, first the lady bowlers
stopped coming to that cafe
for their afternoon-tea; then
a lot of other regular customers
disappeared, because everyone
was suddenly talking about the
wonderful food and service at
a hitherto-neglected place not
far along the street; finally
the now-jittery proprietor was
told that a big women’s charity
organisation would not require
the use of his premises for its
annual dinner.
The proprietor, growing
desperate, took to standing at
his entrance-door, grieving as
he watched all his old cus-
tomers go elsewhere. Some-
times, overcome by his emo-
tion, he clutched one by the
sleeve and begged to be told
in what way he had offended.
The result of the vague hints
and the very cautious allusions
was that he sacked Brownie.
TTo everyone’s surprise, and
somewhat to their uneasi-
ness, Brownie didn’t leave our
town, although she must have
known that she wouldn’t get
another main-street job.
Opinion is divided on whether
she is too much in love with
Harvey to be able to give-up
all hope of him, or has some
other obscure feminine reason
for staying on in a town that
has not treated her very well.
She has virtually disappeared
from the life of the town, and
if she ever sees Harvey Mil-
lington, nobody knows any-
thing about it. It should be
possible to forget her, yet she
remains a potentially explosive
force, like a mortar-shell in
the quiet home of a returned
soldier.
Yet, while it provides a tiny
nucleus of worry in tne minds
of our responsible people, we
know that this sort of thing
is inevitable in a made-to-
pattern community. When a
town has been evolved to a
certain shape it is inevitable
that sometimes certain pres-
sures must be exerted to keep
it that way. It may be regret-
table, but that is the way it is.
Not that our town is troubled
by its conscience; it knows
that what was done was done
with admirable intentions.
Brownie now has a job in
one of the side-stieets ; at the
freezing-works. Every morn-
ing, dressed in a shapeless
overall, she takes her place
on a blood-spattered concrete
floor where turkeys from the
surrounding farms are dressed.
Brownie stands second in the
line along the up-to-date chain-
system.
A strong man, who is first,
takes the turkeys out of the
crates, pinions their wings, and
hangs them upside-down by
the legs on a hook. When
each arrives at Brownie’s stand,
she holds its head back with
one hand, and, frowning
slightly, her lips pressed to-
gether and an abstracted look
on her face, she deftly cuts its
throat with a razor-sharp
knife.
It seems a repulsive job for
such a beautiful girl as
Brownie Ferris; but the
chain-store manager went to
see her there, and is certain
that she enjoys it. He was
heard bragging about it most
offensively in a pub.
“Teil you what, blokes,” he
said, “I’ve got a theory about
Brownie. Now, just use your
imagination a bit if you’ve got
any, and I’ll try to make it
clear. Imagine your Brownie
Ferris in her fixed position, just
like she was in my store, heh?
Then down the chain come all
those fat, red-faced, thick-
necked, goggle-eyed objects
straight at you, all full of out-
raged indignation. Who would
they remind you of? Come
on now; let’s face it;
wouldn’t they remind you of
certain ladies of your acquain-
tance?
“Well, then—still imagining
you’re Brownie, now; still
imagining you’re Brownie —
wouldn’t you get a kick out of
slitting their throats?”
KOOKABURRA
Early he was a mocker
Which latterly we have
changed;
No unrequested laughter
Can our feelings leave
estranged .
He has been promoted now
To cheer-leader of the bush
Although laughter from his
bough
Is succeeded by a hush.
His silent soft-winged visits
Come from shadows like sur-
prise
A nd the same enigma sits
In the black bore of his eyes.
Sagely he will cant and flex
His low brow or signal-tail,
Will train his horny forceps
Whether our views meet or fail.
He is stationed in our mind
Greeting both the eye and ear
As our fortune is inclined,
As the heart distributes fear.
VIC.
NOEL MACAINSH.


A Newspaper Has One
ANOTHER HUNTER CENTENARY
By J. A.
Besides Singleton High
School’s centenary (B.
22 /10/’5B) there’s
another important Hun-
ter district centenary this year
—that of the “Newcastle Morn-
ing Herald,” whose exception-
ally good commemorative issue
includes a 20-page supplement
of history of the paper and
district.
Actually the centenary
belongs not so much to the
“Herald” as to the old “New-
castle Chro n i c 1 e.” The
“Herald” did not appear until
about 20 years after the
“Chronicle,” but took it over
within a few months.
The “Chronicle” started on
August 28, 1858, when Morpeth
was the chief port for the
Hunter and Newcastle was a
struggling town of about 2500
people, with boggy, sandy
streets lighted by oil-lamps;
when “Wolfe, Church and
Brown Streets had high cliffs,
and Perkin Street was crossed
by deep ravines traversed only
by goats” ; a year before the
first borough council, a couple
of years before the telegraph-
line to Sydney was finished, and
a good few years before the rail-
way went to anywhere but East
Maitland.
It was a tough, tight and
proud community, with grow-
ing industries in coal, salt and
shipping, determined to develop
and to control its own affairs ;
and it would bluntly wave
away any paper that did not
reflect these qualities and aims.
In fact, Newcastle was once
called a newspaper graveyard:
some 30 have at different times
been published there, and only
two remain.
'The “Chronicle” struck the
right note from the start.
Its proprietors, Hugh Mc-
Dicken and James Baker, both
compositors, had come to New-
castle after being jailed for
“unlawfully conspiring. . . .to
leave the employment” of Sir
Henry Parkes after a dispute
about payment for a job on
Parkes’s Sydney paper, “The
Empire.”
They started the “Chronicle”
on a capital of £l6O, half of it
borrowed, put the weekly four
pages together themselves and
printed them on a primitive
hand-press. Working like that,
they inevitably thought and felt
like the common man of the
district, and seldom failed to
express boldly his public needs
and interests.
Within 20 years—as gas
replaced oil in the lamps, the
population grew steadily, and
steam-cranes were built on the
wharves to cope with the grow-
ing port trade —the “Chronicle”
had outstripped most of its
rivals and grown into a steady
tri-weekly, respected for its
liberal comment and fair report-
ing.
Then, in 1876, the “Herald”
came out in opposition to it.
'T'he “Herald’s” success, at a
time when the city already
had as many papers (two) as it
could support, was due largely
to the appearance of the words
“and Miners’ Advocate” on its
nameplate and datelines. In it,
in fact, was incorporated the
“Advocate,” which had been
started at Plattsburg three years
earlier by John Sweet, a West
Maitland compositor, on
almost no capital and with
secondhand machinery.
Sweet’s paper aimed at being
“the advocate, friend and public
voice of coalminers and work-
ing men”; and apparently it
was. The miners liked the way
it sprang at any colliery-owner
who showed the least sign of
unfairly treating his workers,
and how it spoke to them about
their own problems in simple,
vigorous language.
They quickly came to regard
it as their special paper ; but in
spite of their support, it nearly
went into the newspaper grave-
yard—or, rather, crematorium
—in its first few months.
night while Sweet was in
Sydney on business the
wooden, shingle-roofed build-
ing that was his office, plant
and home was burnt to the
ground.
He lost everything but a
front-page forme and two
trunks of clothes, and, though
the plant had been insured, he
did not get a penny out of it.
On the contrary, he was
accused, on the flimsiest of
evidence, of having started the
fire himself!
A jury cleared him without
leaving the box, but the insur-
ance company still refused to
settle the claim. Sweet took
the case to the Supreme Court,
but the judges couldn't agree
on the amount of the damages;
by which time Sweet was broke
and had to drop the matter.
Nevertheless, a few months
after the fire —with the help of
friends and sympathisers, and
“in defiance of all the opposi-
tion that spite, envy and mali-
“His owner sends him every day to collect the news.”
cious persecution could effect”
—Sweet had the “Advocate”
back on the streets, its policy
unchanged. It had correspon-
dents in every mining district;
it reported nearly every miners'
meeting and dispute ; its leaders
were thoughtful about contem-
porary mining problems ; and,
as variety, it ran serials, sport-
reports and sentimentally moral
verse.
Here is a fair sample of its
polemical style (in reply to an
attack on it by the “Newcastle
Pilot”):
Our contemporary in its lead-
ing article (we must call it a
leading article as it occupies the
place usually devoted to such pro-
ductions) says—“We, of the
‘Pilot,’ only desire a fair field.’’
We, of the “Advocate,” do not
doubt it for a moment, but merely
wonder that while our contemporary
was giving vent to its lust for some-
thing dear to the asinine mind, it
did not breathe a prayer for a
basket of greens, or a bunch of
carrots, or some delicacy more
tempting to a well-developed ass
than the ordinary grass of an every-
day donkey life.
T'he “Advocate'’ was soon
back on its feet. By the
beginning of 1876 its circula-
tion was 4000, and Sweet felt
confident enough to go into
partnership with his father-in-
law, James Fletcher, to make a
daily of it; and so, on April 3,
1876, the first issue of the
“Newcastle Morning Herald
and Miners’ Advocate” came
out —due to take over the
“Chronicle” shortly afterwards.
Our policies [said its first
editorial] are peculiar and past find-
ing out. The principal branches of
that science to which we shall
devote our time....will be the
progress of this district, the advance-
ment of the colony, and conse-
quently an enormous increase in our
circulation.
Prophetic enough; and,
except for the outdated
“colony,” it could almost have
come from a recent issue.
“The progress of the district
. . .” The rise of steel, chemi-
cals, textiles, wool-selling and
wheat-export. . . the new build-
ings of concrete, aluminium
and glass . . . the electric and
petrol hurry of a modern city
. . . Not even the men who
wrote and made the “Herald”
could calculate how much it has
helped to create the Newcastle
of today ; but how much it has
reflected of the human tragedy
and comedy that went into and
came out of the growth can be
seen in its columns.
And if, as one of its early
editors said, you can judge a
community by its newspapers,
Newcastle can hand a copy of
the “Herald” to any inquirer
and be pretty certain of not be-
ing underestimated.


RE-PLAN AID FOR ASIA
From N. STEYNE
CJmoke or indignation in the
eyes of those periodically
attacking and defending the
Colombo Plan seems to have
obscured some of the real
aspects of the little fires which,
began the argument. In the
first place, it has been a
cardinal point of policy on the
part of Australia (and, mostly,
the other donor nations) not
to suggest ways of help for
the recipient nations but to
accept from those nations
requests for gifts in kind —
requests originating with those
nations and not prompted by
us. Secondly, it is obvious, and
has been so for a long time,
that the politicians and others
who decide on what to request
sometimes ask with an eye on
their own prestige and often
with incomplete knowledge of
what their country really needs
or can use profitably.
The gifts, quite properly,
carry no “strings,” but one
of the most disconcerting
aspects of the plan to many
Australians has been the com-
plete ignorance on the part of
most inhabitants of the recipient
countries of the origin and
purpose of the gifts. Even that
small proportion of Asians who
actually see the gifts, and
sometimes benefit from their
use, probably don’t know that
they owe some gratitude to
Australia.
It would be informative to
discover, for instance, how
many of the users of the diesel
buses given to relieve passenger-
traffic congestion in Djakarta
really know that their greater
comfort stems from a desire in
Australia to raise their living-
standards. It would be still
better to learn whether, during
the years the plan has been in
operation, the consequent
advancement in living-
standards (how much “advance-
ment” is there, anyway?) has
contributed to what Sir Percy
Spender believed would ensure
“the security of such countries
and the security of our own
country.”
Surely this is a time for
reconsideration not merely of
the plan itself but of Australian
relationships with Asia. We
have to live alongside Asia, and
we want to live in friendly
harmony and mutual respect
with Asian nations, encourag-
ing their prosperity with
expanding trade, and enjoying
cultural and other neighborly
associations. It seems unfortu-
nate that when the Government,
and especially the Minister for
External Affairs, talks of
Asian relations the references
are almost wholly to Colombo
Plan, the spread of “diplomatic
missions” into various Asian
countries, and the “close links ’
of Seato. There are lamentable
gaps in all these matters, due
more to lack of knowledge and
appreciation than to shortage
of finance.
Some years ago Sir lan
Clunies Ross suggested that
instead of spending £2OO
million a year on defence and
£5 million or £6 million on
the Colombo Plan we should
devote £l5O million on real and
properly-understood help to
low-standard Asian countries
and spend the balance on
defences adapted to current
changes in defence conceptions.
This, he felt, would really
create friendship and have a
“Is it catching ?”
true impact of Asian living-
standards.
The suggestion never received
the compliment of informed
discussion, but it is not too
late in the day to have a look,
now at something of the sort,
At the same time the assistance
should not merely be something
suggested by the Asians them-
selves. Our diplomats in the
field should be able to discuss
it with the Governments to
which they are accredited, so
that the knowledge on both
sides of what is really needed
and can be used, as well as of
what is available here, can be
applied fully.
At least as importantly, there
must be far more interchanges
of visits. Journalists and
politicians from some Asian
countries have paid us visits,
and our journalists and poli-
ticians have gone to some
Asian countries although
there, again, there are some
glaring and potentially serious
gaps. Knowledge, friendships
on many levels, a desire on
both sides to understand
national policies and outlooks,
an exchange of experience and
skill should be fostered far
more than at present, both by
Australia and by our Asian
neighbors,
We want, for example, Asian
understanding, not Asian
resentment, of our immigration
policy, of what we are trying
to do in New Guinea, of our
problems of development. We
need to know how Asia is feel-
ing and what it is doing about
its own problems of population,
of development, of improving
living-standards in health,
education and housing.
NEWSPAPERS AND FOREIGN AFFAIRS
From “Ex-ACT”
Comparatively, few people
see more than one or two
newspapers a day, and even
fewer have either the time
or the inclination to scan
fairly closely all the major
daily newspapers in Aus-
tralia. It is the chore of
a few persons to do so, mostly
with the object of preparing
appreciations either of trade
and economic trends or of that
elusive thing, “public opinion.”
It is often said that news-
paper editorials are seldom
ed. This may be true of the
vast majority of “daily”-
readers, most of whom are
more interested in racing, foot-
ball and lottery news, the cross-
word and the comic-strips,
However, a minority of people,
including the politicians, read
the leading-articles fairly
closely, and frequently use the
«£ aOcnow-
"S topicafffmportance 6
, . , .
It is common knowledge that
voters have often been m
, ... . „• T „
direct opposition to the views
c . .. c
that in the main the newspapers
do represent the views of most
• x . . u . T+
citizens on most subjects. It
is a moot point whether the
papers lead or follow opinion
but it can be accepted except
critfcs thlt n °ftev S “flea ft
critics, that they rell t
pretty fairy.
I here is one n ,
however in which there is
an extraordinary dispar ty
in approach in various parts
of Australia - the arena
of foreign affairs. A survey
over a long period of editorials
on the many aspects of foreign
affairs—the long-range subjects
of disarmament, nuclear
weapons, summit talks and the
like, and the short-range
matters which flare-up and fade
away, Cyprus, Aden, Algeria,
Korea and similar matters —
discloses that in some State
capitals readers can find many
reasoned views, and that in
others there is practically noth-
ing offering.
Restricting such a survey to
the capitals (while acknowledg-
ing that a few, very few, pro-
vincial journals do their best
in this field), it can be said
that Adelaide is perhaps best
served, and Queensland worst
served. Melbourne does better
than Sydney, although one
Sydney newspaper has many
outstanding editorials on
foreign affairs, and Hobart and
Launceston (which is the capital
of Tasmania?) both do fairly
well, and better than Perth.
Such a survey might seem
academic and purposeless. But
the time has arrived when
informed public opinion on
matters beyond our shores is
not merely desirable but
essential. Our current foreign
policies may be somewhat
obscure, but sooner or later —
and the sooner the better
they will have to be defined and
submitted to the bar of public
opinion. If that opinion has
been moulded by informed and
reasonably impartial news-
papers then the pressures on
the Government will ensure
good and effective policies. If
it has not, then policies may
be left to rely on politics. In
that case, God save Australia!


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Vic. Egg Board
Even if the Victorian Egg
Board won’t admit it has been
wrong, its new cheaper-local-
eggs policy (B. 15/10 / *5B)
indicates that at last it is begin-
ning to digest hard economic
facts.
In its annual report for
1955-56 the board dismissed as
“humbug” and “sheer non-
sense” suggestions that, instead
of being exported at a loss,
eggs should be placed on the
local market at reduced prices
or put in cool-store to meet
winter shortages. The board
declared that neither of these
proposals was practicable or
economical, adding that “all
the evidence indicates the wis-
dom of spending money to
encourage English housewives
to use Australian eggs.”
What evidence the board
relied upon remains a mystery,
but in that particular year its
policy resulted in a decline
from £226,641 to £121,477 in
income from local sales, and
a net loss by the board of
£4065 as against a profit of
£120,311 in . the previous 12
months. Yet in face of such
resistance by local consumers
to high local prices, the board
persisted that its policy was the
right one to “strengthen the
poultry-farming economy.”
The truth, as is now
apparent, is that the public is
prepared to buy more eggs at
a fair price, but is emphatically
opposed to subsidising overseas
sales of surplus eggs. —Wuss-
LEAN (Vic.).
Shearers
Can’t agree with “Stan's”
comparisons between shearers
and welders, bricklayers and
toolmakers (B. 24/9/’5B).
Shearers work five days
a week, and any man
who shears 100 sheep a day
makes about £4O a week —and
plenty of shearers can do 150
and 200 a day. That puts them
right out of class with the
others mentioned.
A good shearer does not
make hard work of it, as he
knows where to put his feet and
how to turn his sheep to enable
him to keep his machine full,
take the long steady blow, and
waste no time on second cuts.
Walk down the board and pick
the man who appears to be
putting the least energy into his
work and nine times out of ten
you pick the “ringer.”
Shearers are a pampered
body of men. They have no
responsibility, take no risks,
and about everything they
require to make their living is
found for them. The sheep are
practically put into their hands,
the sheds, machinery and
living-quarters are found, and
all the shearers find are combs
and cutters —and plenty of
small sheds find these also. —
R. A. McC. (N.S.W.).
Hours and Destiny
In the past 6000 years there
are traceable eight cycles, at
almost constant intervals, of
“Toughest sound-barrier I've ever struck!"
the rise and fall of a particular
civilisation.
A nation would develop to
a high peak of cultural attain-
ment, make extraordinary pro-
gress in the study of the arts
and sciences, accrue renown for
craftsmanship and wealth from
trade. Then would follow a
period of indolence and
apathy, with industry re-
placed by licence, and skill
lost to debauchery. The people
became indifferent to national
demands and blind to any
external threats to the State.
Border races and nomadic
groups, forced by genetic and
natural circumstances to be
aggressive and predatory,
learned from their spies that
the fruit was ripe for picking.
Invasion and conquest fol-
lowed. The infirm, the weak
and the aged were slaughtered,
the complacent leaders hung by
the heels from the city walls.
Thus a new race came into
being, the assimilation of new
stock into the old leading, in
many cases, to the building of
a virile, intellectual civilisation.
In 700 or 800 years this
nation would reach the highest
eminence, in cultural develop-
ment, only to enter then a
similar sitting-back period, and
the cycle of conquest and
absorption would be repeated.
In our particular white
civilisation the peak of cultural
development js likely to be
reached in the next 50 years.
In the cycle periodicity there
is a peak on the chart. If one
looks to the north the stage
appears to be in a state of
preparation.
These random thoughts on
a very vital subject came into
being as a result of hearing an
A.C.T.U. vice-president open-
ing a Labor-day function in
Adelaide. There are signs in
the nation, he said, of the need
for reduced hours and higher
wages. Unless adjustments
were made he considered we
were in for a bad time.
In Central Europe the indus-
trial countries are using every
possible means, including all
phases of automation, to secure
the world’s markets. Syn-
thetics and plastics are replac-
ing conventional materials. In
all cases, in spite of mechanisa-
tion, working-hours have been
extended. The average is 56
hours a week.
With the cheapest steel in
the world our ferrous-based
manufactures are the dearest.
Overseas countries can buy our
steel, turn it into modern ships
and sell them back to us at a
little more than half the cost
of a similar vessel built in our
own yards. Study the goods
displayed in our chain-stores
and note the country of origin,
the ingenuity and craftsman-
ship. These articles are made
from our basic metals, too, but
we could not produce them for
double the retail price.
We can break any chain of
disastrous cycles by one virtue
only—the will to work to over-
come the external threats and
problems. To advocate shorter
hours and higher wages at this
time can only precipitate a
premature decline before we
have even approached the
highest peak.— Old Opencut
(S.A.).
The Senate
The Senate would be more
effective, both as a house of
review and guardian of State
rights, if several new States
were created (B. 15/10/’5B).
The present set-up gives the
big city far more influence in
determining the composition
of that Chamber than is the
case with the House of Repre-
sentatives. Lacking its under-
standing with the Liberals,
under which a joint Senate
team is put up in States where
the two parties function, it is
doubtful if the Country party
could win a seat in the Senate
outside Queensland even
under proportional-representa-
tion. Yet in every State where
the party is in being there are
House of Representatives con-
stituencies where a Country-
party candidate can easily beat
all comers.
There should, also be pro-
vision for elder statesmen,
retired from active politics, to
sit in the Senate, with the right


to speak, but not to vote. Tu
the U.K. such veterans can go
up to the House of Lords,
where they can still give good
counsel. People who are noi
party fanatics are more inclined
to be guided by this type of
public man than by active
party politicians.
Australian Federal Parlia-
mentarians who are no 1 longer
candidates for Ministerial posts
have only two alternatives.
They must retire from public
life, or, if they are to continue
to play any part in it, retain
seats that should be held by
rising political personalities.—
Farinmail (N.S.W.).
Let Them Wait
Doctors do not deliberately
cause their patients or clients
inconvenience (B. 24/9/’5B).
Time is as valuable to
a doctor as to. the patient.
A doctor or specialist with
six patients to see cannot
allot a specified time to each.
One patient may require 10
minutes, the next 30 minutes
or over. The first may have
seen the doctor many times, the
next may be a new patient.
An examination must be
thorough, and a specialist may
take an hour with one new
patient—it all depends on what
is wrong. A set schedule could
work against the patient.
Specialists and doctors may
have emergency cases before
their surgery cases. Specialists
ESPRESSO BAR
may be delayed at hospitals to
see new and unusual cases.
Accidents do not happen at set
times, and a doctor can be
delayed by more cases on one
day than the next. The average
doctor would work 14 hours a
day, and confinements can alter
his schedule considerably.
Each patient represents a set
fee, and the doctor or specialist
does not charge extra, no
matter what time is given to
each individual. All members
of the medical profession cope
with emergencies, accidents and
sickness that do not recognise
prescribed consulting-hours.
. The working patient consult-
mg a doctor comes under the
protection of a sick-leave
allowance, the doctor issuing
a certificate where necessary so
h ‘“f ,’?!!?“
,1’ , IS .U. 1 '
. .
Eradicatmg the Fruit-fly
The W.A. Fruitgrowers’
Association has recommended
that annual registration-fees for
backyard-orchards should be
increased from 2s. to £l, and
the money used as a fund for
eradicating fruit-fly.
There’s no chance that the
Government or the Agricul-
tural Department will favor
that increase, or anything like
it; all the same, there’s a case
for a substantial temporary
rise (say, for five years), pro-
vided a reasonable percentage
of the tax finds its way into the
right fund. It’s a question of
who stands to gain most if the
country’s freed of this pest—
he’s the one who should pay
most.
It’s only fair that the back-
yard-orchardist should pay a
big share, because, of all the
fruitgrowers in the State, he
stands to gain most. The
commercial orchardist might
even lose, in one way, if every
householder who wanted to
could have his own fruit-trees.
If 90,000 of the backyarders
think it worth while now —
when they’ve got to spray and
bait continually, and when no
more than 20 per cent, of the
fruit they produce can be eaten
—it’s a safe bet there'd be a lot
of fruit grown in the suburbs if
there were no fruit-fly.
By the same token, this
means that the houseowner
who wants his own trees, but
who won’t grow them now be-
cause of the fly, would benefit
even more from a successful
eradication campaign yet
under the present system of
registration he doesn’t pay a
cracker. Neither does the
householder who wouldn’t
bother about trees, or the
flat - dweller who couldn’t;
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 510
Across
1. —Sick drone associated with our blue jokes. (3-6, 6)
B—lt’s8 —It’s Reg’s wild animal. (7>
10 — Dig about the steamer and get off-course temporarily. (7)
11— Edward the Corpulent is doomed by destiny. (5)
12— When Captain Craig is being assailed or scolded by the
famous Jolson dog. (8)
14 —Who is illiteratedly shown by an American poet bird. (6)
16 —Guess about the place to put up with a stout fellow
whom film critics regard as no mug Alec. (8)
19—Very fruitful professional angle
which is right if I see the
finish. (8)
21 —Mrs. Mee confused a hypno-
tist. (6)
24 —A foreign nut making a little
noise? (8)
26—P.asher scholars sometimes say he
wrote the greatest one-man col-
lection of comedies and dramas
in the world. (5)
28 — Moose appearing with Central
American vowels. (7)
29 — Tearing into a thankless
fellow. (7)
30 — Guinness’s Clydesdales and Per-
cherons and Suffolk Punches are
a tonic. (8, 2,5)
Down
1 — How are the poor potatoless?
(3, 2,5)
2 Bassoon boy is given a cigar-
ette. (7)
3 Mountain nymph has nothing to
read. (5)
4 Goes forth on horseback, but is
routed dreadfully. (5, 3)
5 Non-obtained broken gun is to
"turn up. (5)
6 Work with a scalpel entertain-
ment given at La Scala to the
Maori. (7)
7 Way to follow Rugby Union
oxidation. (4)
9 -Playwright causes laughter in the
south-west. (4)
13 —Contraction ensured by such a
cord at first. (10)
15 —Japanese sash. (3)
17 — Maiden name. (3)
18 — Pin no faith in a comment in
the relationship between 10-across
and 8-across and 7-down. (8)
20 —Smell nothing coldly obstin-
ate. (5)
22 — Toy negative from a pilgrim
city. (7)
23 — Source of many of our woollens?
Iron ’em badly. (6)
25 — Edna Ferber’s novel cry over an
upset American soldier. (2, 3)
26 — Stick us in the mire sham. (5)
27 — South material for cattle to chew
and slip rapidly across. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 509


but they’d both gain from
the cheaper fruit which
would result from freedom
from fly. That widens the
scope. Now it’s a State con-
cern, and the State should pay.
It shouldn’t be hard to devise
a way to tax each household a
couple of bob a year.
But, following that line of
thought, the benefits would
extend even beyond W-A.
South Australia hasn’t got the
fly, but it’s got road-blocks to
check fruit coming into the
State. That must cost money.
So must the inspections at all
the rail, sea and air-terminals.
Maybe that cost isn’t a fleabite
to what W.A. spends each year
trying to keep the pest within
reasonable bounds, but it would
be nice for S.A. to feel
“Ee’s a GOOD bloke—straight as a guided-missile."
free of the dangers of an odd
fly sneaking through, and the
costly campaign that would
follow.
The other mainland States
have got the fly, so now it's
grown to a Commonwealth
problem, and it should be
tackled on that basis, which
makes it simpler, too. The
Commonwealth’s taxation
machinery is more elastic and
rather better oiled than the
States’.
It's going to be a terrific job
ridding Australia of fruit-fly,
but not impossible. The biggest
job might be educating the
public, and there’d need to be
strict rules and heavy penalties,
with complete co-operation be-
tween the Agricultural Depart-
ments and commercial growers,
just as there was to eradicate
the codling-moth from a soiith-
Westralian district during' the
last couple of years. That cost
plenty, but it showed what
thoroughly ruthless methods
could do. Eradicating fruit-fly
would be incomparably harder,
because it’s wider spread and
has such a wide variety of
hosts —it lives in the hips of
roses and in the fruits of several
garden shrubs —and it would
cost a lot more and take longer.
But on the basis of that codling-
moth campaign it could be
done. Gravelsnatcher
(W.A.).
Rate of Exchange
In reply to “R.L.’s” (B.
24/9/’5B) statement that it is
a popular misconception that
the Bank of New South Wales
was responsible for fixing the
rate of exchange, and that the
rate rose to £l3l 10s. in 1931,
I refer to the proceedings of
the Royal Commission on
Monetary and Banking Sys-
tems, 1936, which shows that
both statements are incorrect.
According to evidence given
by Sir Alfred C. Davidson,
general-manager of the Bank
of New South Wales, in
August, 1930, a voluntary
exchange - mobilisation pool
was established by the banks
because of the danger that
there would be insufficient
funds to meet Government re-
quirements for interest abroad.
Traders were asked to make
arrangements through the
banks to support the Govern-
ments, but still the outside
market grew. At a meeting
of the banks on October 9,
1930, the buying-rate was fixed
at £AIOB 10s. = £stg.loo.
Finally, after unsuccessful
attempts to get the other banks,
including the Commonwealth
Bank, to co-operate, the Bank
of New South Wales decided
to overhaul the outside mar-
ket on its own account.
The bank raised its rates on
January 6, 1931, to the level
of the outside market, namely
£Alls = £stg.lOO, and then
rapidly moved its rates up-
wards in order not to be under-
cut. On January 23, 1931, it
caught and held the market
with a telegraphic transfer
buying -rate of £AI3O =
fstg.loo. This rate was
adopted by the other banks.
On this successful measure
Sir Alfred comments: “At this
level the overvaluation of the
Australian pound, a severe
handicap to producers for
export, disappeared . . . Rais-
ing of the exchange-rate more
accurately measured relation-
ship between Australian and
overseas level of money-
incomes, costs and prices. It
was without doubt one of the
most important factors which
helped Australia to recover
from the depression.”
During 1931 conferences
were arranged between the
Commonwealth Bank and the
trading-banks, at which the
matter of the Commonwealth
Bank assuming the full respon-
sibility of a central bank in
regard to exchange was dis-
cussed. Agreements were
reached on this matter both
in Sydney and Melbourne. On
December 2, 1931, the Com-
monwealth Bank brought the
rate down to £AI25 —£stg.loo.
—G. B. (N.S.W.).
Legal Lingo
Surely it is inconsistent to con-
template changing our mone-
tary and mathematical systems
to the allegedly simpler decimal
coinage and metric measure-
ments while never a thought is
given to the need for a revision
of our legal phraseology! Any-
body who thinks that no revi-
sion is necessary should make
a will, as I did.
I wrote simply and concisely
what I wished to be done after
my death. No passage was in
any sense ambiguous, and a
boy of 12 could have read the
whole document with com-
plete understanding. Then I
gave the will to my solicitor.
He read it through, found no
need to ask what I meant by
any clause, but told me he
would prepare the document
for my signature.
In due course I was sum-
moned to his office and handed
the “last will and testament.”
I read the thing in amazement.
It was incredible that a few
simple directions could be
turned into such a long-winded
jumble of repetitions and con-
fusing jargon that even I, who
knew what I had written, could
not hope to understand. I
asked the solicitor to explain
certain passages and was told:
“That means just exactly what
you wrote in the original.”
A legal man, of course,
would give a superior smile at
this stage, and explain that
unless a document is written in
legal phraseology it could be
twisted and distorted and
“interpreted” until it said some-
thing quite different from what
had been intended.
The answer to that is, our
laws are drawn-up by legal
men, couched in legal phrase-
ology, carefully checked for
ambiguity—and what happens
in far too many cases? A
clever lawyer finds a loophole,
“submits” that clause so-and-so
could be interpreted to mean
this-and-that, and, although the
judge knows full well that it
was never intended to mean
any such thing, he has no other
alternative than to accept the
technical point and allow
justice to go awry.
A good writer can write in
everyday English and convey
exactly what he wishes to
express—nothing more than
that, but nothing less. I fail
to see why legal documents
could not be written in the
same explicit, concise and indis-
putable language. Kerba
(N.S.W.).


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
WHAT IS THE NATURAL WAY TO MILK?
By W. G. WHITTLESTONE
/~\nly the other day I was
” asked by a farmer: Is it
really true that machine-milk-
ing is just as good as hand-milk-
ing? This farmer thought that
the only reason the machine is
used is that it is faster and
therefore cheaper to use than
hand-milking, but that the
latter causes less disease and
produces more milk.
For years there has been a
lot of argument about this, and,
oddly enough, there is still dis-
agreement on the simple matter
of how a calf gets its milk.
Usually the defendants of the
machine end-up by saying:
“Well, whatever you say about
hand-milking, the machine is
more like a calf, which sucks
the milk out. Natural milking
is suction-milking, not squeez-
ing as in hand-milking.” And
so the argument goes on.
Some years ago I tried to
find out just what vacuum a
calf could suck, so I rigged-up
a bottle arrangement with
tubes, a rubber teat and a
Pulpy kidney
amongst lambs is
more prevalent in the
spring, and owners
with flush feed should
inoculate their lambs
against this disease
without delay at this
time of the year. It
should be borne in
mind, however, that
the vaccine will not
protect much longer
than six to eight
weeks and further in-
oculation should be
given no earlier than
four weeks after the
first to ensure reason-
able immunity for
about six months.
When marking them
is a convenient time
to give lambs the first
inoculation and as
an added protection
against set-back and
disease Elastrator
Rubber Rings should
be used rather than
cruder methods.
vacuum gauge and tried it out
on two unsuspecting calves.
The results were far from
spectacular. One calf produced
a vacuum of about five inches
of mercury, while the other
produced about seven inches.
Now a typical milking-
machine uses a vacuum of 15
“There, Honey? I'm home!"
inches, and there are many
cows which won’t milk on a
5-to-7-inch vacuum.
About this time some Ameri-
can workers did a similar
experiment and found that their
calves could produce a vacuum
of 17 inches. I should add that
the work was done in Minne-
sota, not Texas, but despite this
fact the difference between the
calves was startling.
I have been unable to under-
stand the reason for the low
vacuum our calves produced
until recently. In Englaud
ingenious research - workers
have done some experiments
on the suckling of goats. They
partly milked-out the nanny
and filled her udder up with a
milk-like substance which is
opaque to X-rays. The kid was
then allowed to suckle, and
X-ray movies were made of the
operation.
The results were most
interesting. The kid gets a good
hold of the teat which is full
of milk, nips it firmly where it
joins the udder, then squeezes
with the tongue, resulting in a
positive pressure which ejects
the milk as in hand-milking.
The teat seems to be drawn
into the mouth by suction so
that the calf really uses both
suction and positive squeezing
to get the milk out. This
explains why we got so low
a vacuum in our early experi-
ments.
Some funny experiments
have been done to clear-up this
problem, but it would seem
that this recent English work
is the best yet. An early
American, Dr. Gaines, tried
sucking the teats of a goat in a
vain attempt to kid the poor
animal that he was a kid. No
let-down ever rewarded the
doctor’s efforts, and he con-
cluded that the real kid
triggered-off a special reflex.
He did establish quite clearly
that unless the goat reacts
properly the milk cannot be
drawn —which at that time was
an important piece of know-
ledge.
These experiments do not
help to settle the argument
about the superiority of one
form of milking-method over
another. Recently I had the
interesting experience of study
ing the milking of water-
buffaloes. This was most
enlightening.
When I saw buffaloes’ teats
for the first time I thought it
would be impossible to milk
such an animal by machine.
The teats of the older animals
were long and pendulous, and
if you put a machine on them
it would probably drag on the
floor. Then I saw the milkers
at work in traditional Indian
style. They pulled down on the
teats with a strenuous “strip-
ping'’ action, squeezing them
fiercely between the thumb and
forefinger.
No wonder the teats were
long—they were stretched by
the milkers! Attempts at hand-
milking buffaloes soon con-
vinced me that they are really
“tough” milkers, and the easiest
way to milk them is by this
dreadful stripping action
instead of using the full-handed
method usually employed by
Western hand-milkers. The
teats of the heifers were normal
and just like cows’ teats.
When we tried a machine
the results were at first a little
alarming. Of the three animals
tried, one gave no milk at all,
one gave about one-third of the
expected amount and one gave
a normal quantity. This sort
of result had been obtained
earlier, and machines had been
rejected as useless for buffaloes
in this area. However, by
putting up the vacuum a bit we
found that all of our buffaloes
would milk, and very soon we
had a successful machine-milk-
ing herd under way.
These experiments showed
that bad hand-milking is much
worse for the animals than
good machine - milking.
Western experience has been
similar. Tough hand-milkers
who strip or use the thumb to
squeeze the teats do much
more harm than a properly
used machine.
In general, when a machine
is used properly there will be
less damage done to the deli-
cate tissues of the teats than
with rough hand-milking.
There is a very common
disease of the udder called
mastitis, or, as our ancestors
called it, garget. Studies on
thousands of cows milked by
machine and by hand have
shown without doubt that there
is less mastitis in machine-
milked herds than when they
are milked by hand.
One reason for this is very
simple. The machine is easier
to keep free from germs than
the hands, and the hand-milker
spreads genus from cow to
cow, thus increasing the inci-
dence of dis ase.
This i e way, is a strong
argument against stripping
cows by hand after machine-
milking in order to wring-out
that last lidle drop of butter-
fat. A lot of farmers don’t
realise that, the germs which
cause sore-throats and the like
can also cause mastitis in cows,
o that a dirty milker can
infect his >.ows. The other
way round, of course, the


TIMES change—but some things
remain unaltered. White Horse
Whisky, for instance. This famous
Scotch Whisky has long been known for
a particular excellence. The generous
flavour and gentle glow of White Horse
give unequalled
pleasure wherever
it is served.
§@i
wfl
r^Q'
&
■
•••:•
HR^O.
m
P
£1
l
e»SSi
mm
WHITE HORSE
Scotch Whisky
R 55
milker can pick up a sore-
throat from an infected cow.
Lots of studies have also
shown that there is no
difference in the milk-produc-
tion of herds hand-milked
compared with those milked by
machine. We are able to con-
clude safely that in practice,
although it now looks as if
hand-milking is more like the
calf than the machine, it is
better for the cows from the
disease point of view, and it
does not affect production.
Further, it is much more
hygienic from the point of view
of milk-quality.
I had this point impressed
on me in India. It is the
custom there to take the
buffaloes out before milking
and pour water over them to
put them in a good mood.
The animals are taken from
the barns where they get all
hot and dusty and are led to
a “dry lot” where they have
buckets of water poured on
their backs.
This makes the dust into
mud which flows round the
animals’ bodies, and a little of
it runs off on to the ground.
Much accumulated on the
lower extremities. During the
subsequent hand-milking most
of the mud is removed from
the teats and is transferred to
the milk-bucket. The vigorous
stripping of the teats and the
lower portions of the udder
makes sure that very little dirt
is left on quite a considerable
area of the lower part of the
udders. It is all transferred
quantitatively into the bucket.
By simply washing the teats
only with chlorine solution and
using a milking-machine which
seals-off the milk from the out-
side as it were, we were able
to produce very much cleaner
milk with the same sort of
labor as was used for hand-
milking. Again results in
Western countries confirm the
view that the machine is a
much more hygienic milker
than most men.
Finally, the chief advantage
of the machine is that it en-
ables one man to milk several
cows or buffaloes at the same
time. It is interesting to note
that because of the inefficiency
of the Indian milker the pro-
portion of labor involved in
the cost of a pint of milk is
not very different from the pro-
portion here. A milking-
machine would soon pay for
itself in India. Hand-milkers
in India quite often take about
10 minutes to milk a buffalo.
The machine can do this in
five to seven minutes, and one
man can look after four
machines, so that he can milk
25 to 30 animals, allowing time
for bringing the animals in and
washing them, etc.
Here in Australia one of our
main problems is to reduce the
cost of milk-production. I
have shown how proper
management and stimulation
can help to improve produc-
tion. By cutting out unneces-
sary labor by using the
machine properly a further
improvement can be effected.
Hand - stripping is unneces-
sary, and is actually bad for
the hygiene of the milk and
the spreading of mastitis.
Hand-milking is quite uneco-
nomical. Actually, a simple
machine-milking method which
eliminates tying the cows’ legs
with leg-ropes —a dirty prac-
tice and all unnecessary
handling other than a good
stimulating wash will pay-off
handsomely.
In other words, I think
machine-milking is much better
than hand-milking from every
point of view.
Multi-purpose
- Lubricant
“R.R.D.”: A universal agri-
cultural lubricating-oil—Ener-
gol Tractor Oil Universal--
was marketed by B.P. Australia,
Ltd., for the first time in Aus-
tralia on October 20.
It seems to overcome the
necessity of stocking many
different types and grades of
lubricating-oils. The small
agricultural tractor in popular
use today may have a petrol-,
kerosene- or diesel-engine, and


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for... .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,’’ to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to "The Bulletin" or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
each type needs a different
lubricant. What with tractor-
transmissions, hydraulic
systems and internal-combus-
tion engines as well, the farmer
can be burdened with a multi-
plicity of oils.
It is claimed that Energol
T.O.U. is capable of being used
in any type of tractor-engine,
as well as in transmission and
hydraulic systems. It has a
dual viscosity for easy starting
in all conditions and additives
to prevent fuel-dilution in kero-
sene-engines and foaming in
transmission or hydraulic
systems.
Money in Stubble
“Wimra”: In the Victorian
Wimmera district, where far-
mers have long followed a two-
year wheat-fallow rotation,
stubbles were burned each
autumn as soon as fire-
restrictions were lifted. Now,
at Rupanyup, farmers no
longer burn money in this
way ; they sell their stubble, for
which, as baled straw, there is
a growing market in Mel-
bourne and elsewhere.
Six years ago Jack Emmett,
a hay-baling contractor from
Gippsland, began buying
stubble in the paddock ; now,
from January to April (accord-
ing to the season), he has
several sets of machines and
trucks, baling, stacking and
carting 3000 tons of straw
from a growing number of
farms in the Rupanyup dis-
trict. Only when a paddock
will yield less than half-a-ton
per acre is it uneconomic to
bale the stubble. Prices,
according to quality, are up
to 15s. a ton.
Night baling is the rule, for
then, toughened by dew, the
straw does not break, as it does
by day. Bales, conveyed by
sledges or ,trailers following
the balers, are stacked about
the paddock, so that when they
must wait some time for rail
transport to market only the
top layer of bales will be
affected by the weather.
Who buys this otherwise
waste stubble? Market-
gardeners are its chief users,
but only after it has served as
bedding in the racing-stables
with which they “have a work-
ing agreement; they spread it,
well impregnated with manure,
upon their gardens. Orchard-
ists want it to mulch around
their trees; mushroom-growers
buy a few truckloads; the
Victorian Railways get this
straw and spread it to check
erosion on cutting-banks. A
Bendigo firm which manufac-
tures strawboard is a good
customer, but insists on tough
straw at least 2ft. long.
Pinnacle wheat yields a more
suitable straw than Quadrat,
the new, ranker-growing
Olympic should be ideal for
this market.
The hay-baler is now re-
placing the reaper-and-binder
for cutting tracks round wheat-
crops. It is found that hay
baled green, when fed to stock,
will practically all be eaten,
but of the same hay in sheaves,
only the heads are eaten.
Pigs
“Van”: Pig-carcass compe-
titions are proving that the big-
shouldered pig is often best in
the ham and a good meaty type.
So from a commercial view it
is generally the big-shouldered
pigs in a litter that are the best.
This goes against the stan-
dards laid-down for all breeds.
Stud-breeders have been trying
to breed pigs with a fine
shoulder and large ham, and
it’s a question how many
excellent pigs have been over-
looked because of this stipula-
tion.
Carcass-competitions are, in
the end, the true assessment of
a pig’s breeding and manage-
ment, and stud-breeders should
take them into consideration.
Culling
Before seriously
undertaking culling have a good
long look at your management
and routine; check especially
nutrition, cow-comfort and
breeding-hygiene.
Culling can only fairly begin
when all things are equal for
every member of the herd. See
that each cow has a fair go.
Don’t let show-ribbons pre-
judice your choice ; figures are
all that matter to begin with —
and by that I mean gallons!
At a recent dispersal-sale a
“fair-go” owner purchased the
Royal Show champion and
some of her august high-pro-
ducing relations, who’d had
the best of everything. With
them he bought little Lassie
Love, a typical Cinderella, with
no ribbons. She had a good
dose of worms and a shaggy
coat. Lassie Love got a fair
go.
Phenobarbed and well fed,
and with no favoritism shown
to the others, she this year
equals in looks and production
the show-darlings that came
with her.
There are those who would
quote this story to prove that
“show” policy carried to excess
can cause the downfall of a
herd. But there are cows that
have no place in any herd ;
throw these out. They are:
1. Naturally poor producers
of three main types— (a) those
suffering the after-effects of bad
worm-infestation or poor nutri-
tion while growing, and now
stunted and never likely to pick-
up ; ( b ) those suffering from
acetonaemia, that go off their
feed (and put you off your own)
with that typical sweetened
breath, and show a drop in
milk or hutterfat over days and
weeks; (c) those with poor
digestion that can’t eat enough
to keep up production without
upsets.
2. Bad breeders, whose
irregular calvings can upset
your quota-programme.
3. Sprinters; make certain
you have some reliable method
of recording over the whole
lactation-period some cows
give well for one or two
months, then, unsuspected by
you, dwindle-off.
4. Those prone to mastitis ;
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(16/10/’58)
Rainfall may be patchy in Queensland during
November, apart from moderate rains on the coastal areas
from Rockhampton southwards. However, general rains
should occur in December, with heaviest falls, and likelihood
of flooding, in southern Queensland. The Peninsula and
north-west and south-west areas may expect heavy rains in
January, but elsewhere patchy.
Patchy rainfall is likely in N.S.W. during November,
apart from moderate rains on the coast, tablelands and
n.-w. slopes and plains areas. Good general rains are
probable in December, with moderate to good rains on the
same areas during January.
Reasonably good rains are indicated in the southern
division of Victoria during November, with light to moderate
patchy rains in the Mallee and northern divisions. Good
general rains are likely in December.
South Australia may have only poor rainfall in
November, apart from light rain in the central districts
and south-east. There should be good general rains in
December.
Apart from moderate rain in the North Kimberleys,
Western Australia will probably have only poor rainfall
during November, but there should be good rains in the
Kimberleys, south-east area, Eucla and part of the south-
west area during December.
LENNOX WALKER.


High-Grade
Riding Boots
For over 50 years, Byrne Bros have
been Australia’s leading shoe makers.
Quality, styling and true craftsmanship
will be found in every pair of Riding
Boots, whether they be a stock size or
tailored to your individual requirements.
Riding Boots, tailored from high-quality
imported German Calf and English Silk
Elastic £l2/12/-
Tailored to measure . . ...... £l4/14/-
YRNE BROS.,
Shoemakers for 50 years
15 WILMOT STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite ths Trocadero )
however much you love them,
let them go.
5. Temperamental ones
kicking, nervous and easily up-
set —and upsetting the whole
herd.
6. Slow milkers, with a
second let - down that no
amount of patience can correct,
and those with small-bore teats,
both of which defects can be
handed down to progeny.
Thus, the easy ones are
culled, but you must decrease
your herd further, while main-
taining economic production.
Here, brother, comes the need
for true skill and a hard, hard,
heart.
Talk to every breeder you
know and assess his policy;
then choose your own pointers
most carefully and stick to
them ; they will be your
guiding-stars for the rest of
your dairy-life.
Let’s look a some more
possible pointers: (1) produc-
tion ; (2) conformation ; (3)
selective blood-lines ; (4) good
breeders ; (5) longevity in use-
ful production.
Production : Your standards
must be on the up-and-up ; set
a high figure, and ruthlessly
cull producers that fall below it.
One big Australian stud sets the
chopping-line at 800 gals. per
lactation ; the smaller high-
quality studs (25 cows) in
England and the U.S.A. have a
higher figure than that.
Conformation : Personal pre-
ference is paramount; but if a
breeder must have show-
ribbons the fancy of the judge
of the moment can decide for
him. Nevertheless it’s a proud
moment for any breeder when
his fellow-fanciers can point
out a cow and say: “That’s
from Cooke’s place; look at
those lines, he’s really got them
set now!”
Blood - lines : Selection re-
quires records scrupulously
kept over many years to show
the good families from the bad,
and to guide future matings.
One bad line in a good family
can wipe that family out. The
introduction of non - proved
lines into proved families can
ruin them. In a once-famous
English stud a good bull pro-
duced 55 daughters ; one died,
the remaining 54 daughters
gave (every one) over 1 lOOgals.
each. The bull was accidentally
killed ; his successor was not
proved. That herd is now dis-
persed, so badly did it fail.
One bull of dubious qualities
can therefore ruin your ambi-
tions ; use Al, that’s the only
answer. It would be better to
keep fair cows of good breed-
ing than spectacular milkers oul
of poor stock, as these latter
will mostly revert and cause
trouble a generation or so later.
You have now a line of cows
of equal * production ; next,
select those throwing good
calves. In the U.S. most
emphasis is being put on the
“free milking-capabilities of the
higher-production bracket.”
Sweet-potatoes
“Myall”: The sweet-potato
grows well in most parts of
the Commonwealth, and, as
well as being a good vegetable,
makes first-rate fodder for
cattle, horses and pigs. It does
best in deep, rich, sandy loam,
but most reasonably fertile
land will produce an abun-
dance of the tubers.
The ground should be deeply
ploughed and brought to a
good tilth before the crop is
planted. If fertiliser is
required, use dried-blood,
bone-dust and superphosphate,
mixed in equal proportions
and applied at the rate of
licwt. to 2c\vt. per acre.
The sweet-potato is propa-
gated by cuttings from grow-
ing Vines ; cuttings should
measure about 9in. long and be
cut from the older portions
of the plants. Trim off the
leaves, and insert about 6in. of
the stem in the soil; kept
moist, this will soon take root.
Most nurserymen are able to
supply rooted cuttings during
October and November, the
best time for planting.
Plant cuttings in rows 3ft.
apart, spaced 2ft. apart in the
rows, giving them a thorough
watering as soon as planted.
While the plants are young,
weeds must be kept down, and
an occasional light cultivation
should be given to loosen the
surface-soil.
The crop matures about four
months after planting. To see
if the tubers are mature, dig
a few and break them in two.
If they show a dry, white sur-
face after being exposed for a
few hours they are ready, but
if they turn greenish-black
they are immature, and should
be left in the ground a bit
longer.
There are some excellent
sweet-potatoes now in cultiva-
tion: Porto Rico is an early
variety with yellow flesh ;
Farmer’s Special, mid-season,
with white flesh ; and H. A. C.
Pink, a late variety with yellow
flesh. All three cook dry and
are of excellent flavor.
Farm Hints
‘■Sundowner": Best returns
5° n , * from early potato-
crops if seed is too small. Use
seed at least 2oz. in weight to
get maximum returns ; then
“misses” in the rows will be
reduced to a minimum.
Another point—the greater the
area of skin left on the seed
the more protection the tuber
will have from injury and infec-
tions in the soil. For early
sowings plant not less than
Min. apart; closer planting will
result in smaller matured
potatoes.
“D.1.M.”: Fodder-trees only
need fencing-off till fully grown,
then the stock will keep them
pruned within their reach,
yEthal-trees need deep soil, but
grow quickly and resist
drought; willows prevent creek
erosion ; tree-lucerne makes a
thick hedge. The thornless
honey-locust and the carob-
bean have a high feed-value and
both are ornamental, while the
saltbush is flood- and fire-
resistant. Leaves and berries of
the mulberry are good feed,
so the trees do well for piggeries
t 0 attra( / thi , b adds value
to both stock and ’ land .
“Guide’ : Latest idea is nof
f° run pullets on the range at’
a U-. Experiments show that
confinement - reared pullets
have performed just as well as
those on the run. This gives
savings in labor and cuts losses
from predators. But let them
have plenty of air and don't
crowd them,
“Dicky”: Most of us think
0 f silage as succulent fodder
our stock are going to eat when
pastures get short. But this
pickled pasture has another
advantage ; it’s usually cut early
enough for some of the growth
to recover while still green,
Sometimes this can be eaten
by stock, but its greatest value,
unlike some hay-paddocks, is
in providing a strong pasture-
cover which resists erosion. So
the choice of which paddocks
to cut for hay can be made
from relative susceptibility to
erosion.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
OSULUVAN
XU PTYLTD V
ARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC' PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STF.REOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
Divorce Notices
IN'THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
, SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LANCE JAMES COSTIGAN late of
New Lambton.—TAKE NOTICE that
HAZEL COSTIGAN has filed a Petition
for Divorce (No. 2231 of 1958) on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by the 7th January 1959
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from J. J. KIELY, Solicitor,
17 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEAV
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO BERNARD ARTHUR SEIBRIGHT
late of Granville in the State of New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
ELIZABETH SEIBRIGHT has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3655 of 1958 on
the ground of adultery with the woman
charged If you wish to defend- you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by 4th December 1958
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from L. B. FEENEY & CO.,
Solicitors, of 16 Barrack Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA — In Divorce.
Number 118 of 1958.
TO MIECZYSLAW KUC formerly of
Bronte in Tasmania but now of where-
abouts unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that
a Petition has been filed in this Court
endorsed with a notice for you to appear
and answer the charges in the Petition
of FLORENCE MAY KUC of Bronte
Park in Tasmania Married Woman pray-
ing for dissolution of marriage on the
ground of desertion IN DEFAULT of
your so appearing you will not be
allowed to address the Court and the
Court will proceed to hear the said
charges proved and pronounce judgment
therein your absence notwithstanding
AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that
for the purpose aforesaid an appearance
must be entered at the Principal
Registry of the Supreme Court Mac-
quarie Street Hobart in Tasmania within
thirty days of the publication of this
notice. DATED this 17th day of
October, 1958. —H. R. DOBBIE, Prin-
cipal Registrar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Copy of A Bush Cinema, by H.
V. Edwards, or any other books
by this author. —6757.
To buy My Tale is Twisted, a
collection of ‘‘Spoonerisms.” —
6756.
To buy a student’s kerosene
study-lamp; Brooks’s Fifth Reader,
a school reading-book; any books
about sailjng-ships.—67sB.
Information Sought
Who besides Sir Walter Raleigh
helped to introduce and popularise
potatoes in Europe ?
The popular idea that Raleigh
brought potatoes from Virginia to
Ireland seems to be a fable.
Raleigh was never in Virginia.
Probably, though it’s not certain,
his friend Thomas Herriot intro-
duced them to England towards
the end of the 16th century. Pos-
sibly Raleigh took them from there
to Ireland. The Germans attribute
the innovation to Sir Francis Drake,
and have erected a commemorative
statue at Offenberg. There is no
certain information available except
that the modem potato was pre-
ceded by the sweet-potato.
The potato was not popularised
in England until the middle of the
18th century, when the combination
of cheapness and food-value, or at
least of filling effect, began to
appeal to the poor. In France,
Parmentier occupied himself popu-
larising the tuber. During the
famine of 1771 he made many un-
heeded appeals to the Minister of
Agriculture, later enlisting the sym-
pathy of Louis XVI. As a con-
sequence he was given ground to
make large plantations. This he
did, and used an ingenious means
of introducing potatoes to the diet
of the poor. By day his planta-
tions were closely guarded; by
night they were left unprotected.
In the dark the curious and greedy
came to steal what they would not
have bought, and the success of the
potato was ensured.
* * * *
How to deal with small indoor
ants ?
They may be effectively countered
by any of the following methods:
(1) The use of mechanical devices
under the legs of cupboards, ice-
chests, tables, etc. (2) Half-inch
calico bands, soaked in a saturated
solution of corrosive sublimate in
methylated-spirit and tied round
the legs of tables, etc., will stop
ants for some months. Corrosive
sublimate is poisonous, and must be
used only when the bands will not
later be handled. (3) Sodrtim-
fluoride can be blown through
crevices frequented by the ants as
runways. (4) Plugs of cotton-wool
soaked in the following poison
syrup: lib. sugar, \ level teaspoon-
ful of sodium-arsenite and one
tablespoonfui of honey. These
plugs should be placed in perforated
tins near runways; they are fatal
to some, but not all, species.
Where the construction x>f a
building permits, more permanent
results can be obtained by attacking
the nest on the ground. Inject
into the ground at depth of
6in.-12in. |oz. doses of carbon-
bisulphide, cyanogas-dust or para-
dichlorobenzene - crystals. This
should be done near the nests, or,
if the nests can’t be found, near
stumps or walls in the approximate
or suspected nest-area. Carbon-
bisulphide is the most effective, but
it is foul-smelling and inflammable
and must be used with great care.
Cyanogas is quite effective if pro-
perly used. Paradichlorobenzene is
safe to handle, but less toxic to the
ants. In all cases the holes into
which the fumigant is placed must
be plugged with soil in order to
retain the gases in the vicinity of
the nests.
* * * *
How does an electromatic traffic-
control system operate ?
The electromatic vehicle-actuated
system has three components —
detectors, controller and signal-
lanterns. The detector is a device
for indicating to the controller that
a vehicle is approaching the inter-
section. It is a pressure-operated
unit, flush with the surface of the
roadway, extending over about half
the width of it. Its distance back
from the intersection depends upon
the nature of the thoroughfare and
the speed of the average traffic.
The controller is a mechanism to
switch the signal-lights, in accord-
ance with the messages conveyed to
It by the detectors. Naturally it is
impossible for all vehicles to get
the right-of-way immediately on
arrival at the intersection, but the
controller is arranged so that every
vehicle is passed through at the first
safe opportunity. This is done by
a timing-device which notes the
time of arrival and the speed of
each approaching vehicle and regu-
lates the signals so as to pass them
through in the most efficient order.
The signal-lanterns themselves are
well-enough known —red, amber
and green lenses, mounted in the
most convenient position for ade-
quate visibility.
* * * *
How can I keep my paint-brushes
clean ?
Brushes should never be left in
turpentine only, as the spirit
roughens the bristles. Do not stand
the brushes on end. Bore a hole in
each brush-handle and suspend the
brush in water so that it hangs
free but keeps the bristles entirely
under water. The best container
for brushes is made from a water-
tight box with nails driven through
the sides, far enough apart to take
one brush on each nail without
touching. The hole bored in the
brush-handle fits over the nail and
the water covers the bristles, which
must not touch the bottom of the box.
When on paint-work, wipe surplus
paint off brush, but do not clean it,
and hang in box. New paint-
brushes need special care. After
the first day’s work wipe them free
from paint, dip them in raw oil,
smooth-out carefully and leave lying
fiat on a board. After two good
days’ work they can be used as old
brushes. When the job is done,
clean with turps or kerosene, wash
with soap and hot water, dry and
put away, either flat or hanging —
never on their ends.
* * * *
Information about the Fahren-
heit thermometer ?
The Fahrenheit thermometer is
in general use throughout the
British Empire and the U.S.A. It
is an adaptation of the thermo-
meter invented by Sir Isaac New-
ton and described by him in the
Philosophical Transactions for 1701.
Newton’s lowest point was that of
freezing, his highest that of boiling
water. His starting-point, however,
was the heat of the human body,
which he called by the round num-
ber 12, the duodecimal system being
then in use; that is, he divided the
space between the freezing-point
and the temperature of the
body into 12 parts. When Fahren-
heit took the thermometer in hand
he divided each of Newton’s degrees
into two parts, thus obtaining a
more minute record. He also got
lower temperatures than freezing by
using a mixture of ice and salt for
his zero. Newton used linseed-oil
as the fluid for the thermometer-
tube, but mercury came into general
use as more convenient. Boiling-
point of a Fahrenheit thermometer
is 212°, freezing-point 32°.
* * * *
(1) What metals are used in mak-
ing bells ? (2) Details of some of
the largest bells in the world ?
(3) How many changes can be rung
on a peal ' of eight bells ?
(1) Usually from bell-metal, an
alloy Qf copper and tin. Small bells
used for interior functions are often
made from silver, gold or brass.
Ordinary handbells are made of
brass. Bismuth is frequently
added to bell-metal alloys to
increase resonance. (2) The largest.
bell in the world is the Great Bell
of Moscow, which weighs 198 tons,
is 90ft. high and 60ft. round the
rim. It was cast in 1653, but fell
down in a fire and remained sunk
in the earth until 1837, when it
was put on a platform and the
interior used as a chapel. The
largest bell in use is another in
Moscow which weighs 128 tons.
The largest bell in the U.K. is the
Great Bell of St. Paul’s, London,
weighing 17| tons. Other large
bells are the Great Bell at Peking
(53 tons), Cologne Cathedral (25
tons), Big Ben, Westminster (13
tons) and Great Peter, York
Minster (10 tons). (2) 40,320.
* * * *
Details of a bird known as the
lesser Lewin honeyeater ?
Also known as the yellow-spotted
honeyeater, this bird is found in
Cape York to Cardwell.
Flocks frequent the scrubs and,
occasionally, open forest country
and mangroves. The birds feed
on native fruits, berries, insects and
nectar. The nest is a rather deep,
cup-shaped structure, composed of
bark and dead leaves, woven to-
gether with wild cotton. It is lined
with wild cotton and silky down
from plants. Generally it is sus-
pended from a small fork of a
tree or shrub, usually in dense
scrub, and is placed at heights of
up to 12ft. from the ground. Eggs,
usually two, are pearly white,
boldly spotted with deep-chestnut
and purplish - brown markings,


Missing Friend
MORGAN, William V., son of WILLIAM
SIMPSON MORGAN and ELIZABETH
MARGARET VOLKMAN, or anyone
knowing his whereabouts, please com-
municate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Sydney, re Estate of ALBERT HENRY
CONRAD VOLKMAN.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM 0. DAVIS.
A. O. MAITLAND, Managing Director. O. S. PETTERSEN, Manager,
Branches in all States Agencies In all Country Centres
mainly towards the larger end.
Breeding-season is from October to
March.-
• * * *
What is the origin, in cricket, of
the eight-ball over ?
The number of balls to an over
was laid-down in 1744 as four,
increases being made to five in
1889 and six in 1900. In 1939 an
experiment was made in England
With an eight-ball over, but in
1946 a return was made to the six-
ball over. The M.C.C.’s Laws of
Cricket (1947 code) state that the
over shall be “of either eight or six
balls according to the agreed con-
ditions of play.”
In Australia the four-ball over
Was used until 1887, when a direct
jump was made to the six-ball over.
In December, 1918, the over was
increased to eight balls, which has
been the standard over in Australia
ever since. South Africa followed
the English ruling until 1937-38,
when a change was made to the
eight-ball over for Currie Cup
matches and M.C.C, matches dur-
ing the 1938-39 tour.
New Zealand has also followed
the cricketing laws, with the excep-
tion of the period from May, 1924,
to November, 1927, when there was
an experiment with the eight-ball
over. India and the West Indies
have remained in line with the
laws for the over as used in
England.
Brief Answers
H.S.: (1) As far as can be ascer-
tained, the U.S.A. has no national
flower. (2) Write to the Weather
Bureau, Observatory Hill, Sydney.
.... J.C.: The European linnet does
not occur in Australia. It was
introduced to N-Z. years ago, but
there is doubt whether it now exists
there. Its nearest relative here is
the introduced goldfinch. (2) It
should be possible to buy summer-
rape in Australia. Get in touch
with one of the bird-shops or seed-
shops C.E.8.: Because of the
great extremes of climate in your
district the cement-oil mixture would
not be elastic enough to allow for
contraction and expansion of the
iron. Better results would come
Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.
Claims which state the
section in which paragraphs
appear and the date of
appearance will be paid more
promptly than those which
don’t.
from the use of one of the many
excellent roof-paints on the market*
Here’s the formula, but try a smalt
quantity first on a spare sheet of
iron, and if too soft add a drier,
such as terebene: to every one pint;
of boiled oil add a half-pint of raw
oil, and mix to the consistency of
paint with the cement, making-up.
rather small mixtures... .B.J.A. :;
Summer, autumn, winter and spring
comprise the months of December,
January, February—March, April,
May—June, July, August—Septem-
ber, October and November respec-
tively. These seasons begin on the
first day of December, March, June,
and September P. 8.: You’ll find
the information in An Historical
and Genealogical Account of the
English Nobility, by J. C. Banks,
published 1809. This publication
comprises three vols.; doubt if it’s
available in Australia, but Walford
Bros., secondhand booksellers, 60
Southampton Road, London,
W.C.I, may be able to forward a
copy S.R.H.: One-eighth fl. oz.
—probably equivalent to a dash of
the liquid. The word “jigger” was
almost certainly brought to Aus-
tralia by U.S.A. troops, as it usually
appears only in American recipes.
“Dram” is the same... .L.H.8.:
(1) Vessels registered in Australia
come within the Navigation Act,
administered by the Department of
Shipping and Transport, Marine
Branch, through the Director of
Navigation. For information on
the Navigation Act contact the
Deputy Director of Navigation,
Department of Shipping and Trans-
port, Marine Branch, Box 778-L,
G.P.0., Brisbane. (2) No informa-
tion on the first vessel to trade
between Australia and England'*
Get in touch with one of the local
historical societies; alternatively,
call at Newstead House, Brisbane,
where a wealth of information on
the early days of Australia can be
consulted.
The Hollidays
By Middy
“I Want to lie in the shade for a while . You just stand there and keep the coconuts from falling on me”
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will b«
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor,
thinks necessary.
E.B.“Mad Margaret”' is the
sort of thing they do. in the. ballet
(Giselle), and in Shakspeare
(Ophelia),, but she’s, a very awkward.
sort of character to handle...*
D.M.E.: We read the first four
words —“The storm god belches” —
and gave-up... .R.N.C.: Since you
appear to have solved the riddle
of the universe we'd really better
let you in:
God is Nature! God is Life!
It is the power behind the brain
Of Hindu or of Eskimo
Of water-rat. It drives the plane . . .
D.V.: With all those dashes it
sounds rather breathless R. 8.:,
Life in the raw, indeed: 1 —
Waiting for the train, she sits erect,.
Her hands clasped in her lap upon her:
purse,
A picture of complete propriety.
But he sprawls by lier side and seems,
asleep,
Head lolling on her shoulder like a
child,.
Bemused and. stupefied, with all her
charm,
All helplessness and impropriety,.
.L.A.The weather J'.M.S.t,
Like the birds... .D.G.K.:: There
are some good lines, in “River”;;
generally you're too, wordy...*
G.H.: The thistles don't get any-,
where in particular... .A.R.:; Not;
quite; but you are probably the. first
poet in history to have sung; s.Q>
feelingly of the unborn tadpole-..
....C.F.G.: We'll have a hit o£
your “Rabbit”:. —
Race little rabbit
Youth has; a gum
Hide to your burrow;
Before his, shots won.
Come again late:
As sun is, set;
Much fun. then
As he’s went
A.M.R.t Read the Penguin^
Book of- Australian Verse? andi
come again when you’re, a. bit; older-,


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
Sydney seems determined to keep-up
an atmosphere of liveliness in Hyde
Park. This week saw demonstrations of
what onlookers inelegantly called
“physical jerks” at the southern end of
the park, which advertised Health Week,
while at the same time red-coated, white-
hatted soldiers provided music at the
northern end (this was part of Army
Week). Sometimes' the two celebrations
came together and we saw soldiers per-
forming “physical jerks” in Martin
Place. It was all very vigorous and enter-
taining—in fact, it will seem rather tame
to go back to watching the pigeons, or
playing draughts, or just lolling in the sun
during the lunch-hour.
The Army Tattoo at the Showground
was of course a brave sight with its
fireworks and spectacular feats by Army
men, C.M.F. and police. On the third
and final night the Governor, Sir Eric
Woodward, and Lady Woodward were
present with the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress, Alderman and Mrs. H. F.
Jensen, and the G.O.C. 2nd Division
C.M.F., Major-General J. R. Stevenson,
and Mrs. Stevenson. They were the
guests of the G.O.C. Eastern Command,
Lieut.-General R. G. Pollard, and Mrs.
Pollard.
On the previous night General and
Mrs. Pollard entertained at the tattoo
the Chief of the General Staff, Lieut.-
General A. R. Garrett, and Mrs. Garrett,
Sir Leslie and Lady Morshead, Sir Frank
and Lady Berryman and Sir Frank and
Lady Stevens.
United Nations Week also contributed
to the activities of the past few days.
One of the functions held in its honor
was organised by the Companions of the
Royal Commonwealth Society, when 200
people, including senior representatives
of all Commonwealth High Commission
Offices in Australia, were present. The
function took the form of a social fol-
lowed by a concert in which many
talented artists from each country took
part.
As well as Army Week, etc., we now
have MacLeod Week. Members of that
clan have come from many country
centres, including Coolac, Newcastle,
Taree, Hay, and even from Christchurch
(N.Z.j, for the celebrations, which include
a ball at the State Ballroom, a cocktail
party, a theatre-party and many private
entertainments
The Clan MacLeod Society was
first formed in N.S.W. in 1954
during a visit of the chief, Dame
Flora MacLeod, and has since
grown to be the strongest MacLeod
society in the world, with well over
500 members. Its main aim is to help
unite the bonds of friendship in the Com-
monwealth of Nations, and MacLeod
Week is organised by the society as an
“At Home” to foster this idea.
Kim Dunnicliff, who is the daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. Mark Dunnicliff, of
Bundarra (N.S.W.), has become engaged
to Ron Jeffery, son of Mr. and Mrs.
A. H. Jeffery, of Pyruble. Her ring is a
diamond set in gold, and her plans are
for a wedding next year. Photo by
Norton T rev dire.
of course the opening night of “Lola
Montez” was a bright occasion, especially
as so many first-nighters had taken the
trouble to dress in their newest and most
engaging fashions. One man wore a
red dinner-jacket. One woman wore a
short dress with a full-length tulle panel
at the back, which was covered with fat
pink roses. There would have been
plenty to see even if the show had not
presented a colorful spectacle of back-
ground and costume itself. The young
authors of the musical sat in the box
and bowed to the acclaim of the audience
—Peter Stannard (who wrote the music)
and his wife, Peter Benjamin (writer of
the witty lyrics) and Alan Burke (book).
Lord and Lady Carrington were present
at the opening, also Sir John Northcott
and Mr. and Mrs. Russell Nash.
☆ ☆ ☆
Prime Minister Menzies was in town
during the week, and just before taking-
off for Mary Kathleen (Q.) he unveiled on
Sunday afternoon the new Dargie portrait
of Kingsford Smith and Ulm at the
National Art Gallery. Mr. Menzies said
that at long last we are beginning to
establish a series of national portraits
and that this painting commemorated
one of the great feats of the 20th century
in any place and in any circumstances.
Mrs. Menzies was present at this func-
tion with the Prime Minister. Also
present were relatives of Smithy and
Ulm: Mr. Wilfred Kingsford Smith,
brother of Sir Charles, and Mr. John
Ulm, son of Charles Ulm, and his wife.
The Consul-General for the U.S., Mr.
Frank Waring, proposed the vote of
thanks to Mr. Menzies.
v # V
To compete in the British Drama
League Festival of one-act plays is a
team from Forbes which will present a
Moliere play, “Sganarelle,” at the Wallace
on Friday nod. Producer of the play is
Mrs. John Reymond, who has tremen-
dous drive and energy, as was shown
when floodwaters drowned Forbes some
years ago, and, because “the show must
go on,” Mrs. Reymond rounded-up
marooned members of her cast for re-
hearsal. Nine members of the cast are
coming to Sydney for the contest.
ft ☆ ☆
Mrs. H. J. Ringland, president of the
Braille Writers’ Association, speaking at
the luncheon of the Women Writers’
Society, stressed a point which is often
overlooked —that blind people not only
read braille, they write it. For this
reason braille can never be superseded
by new methods of communication with
the blind, such as “talking books” and
records. It is by braille that blind people
have achieved their present high standard
of literacy. It was interesting to hear,
too, that Louis Braille invented not only
an alphabetical code for the blind but
a musical scale as well (so that a full
orchestral score can be written in braille),
and also invented a mathematical system
of symbols. Mrs. Gwen Morton Spencer
presided at the luncheon, and Miss Jean
Garling proposed the vote of thanks.
Apropos of work for the blind, it is
not generally known that there is an
organisation in N.S.W. whose aim is to
provide seeing-eye dogs for them. The
training and provision of these dogs costs
a great deal of money, and the associa-
tion is sure that not only dog-lovers but
all those interested in the welfare of the
blind would be willing to help as soon
as they heard that aid is needed. The
address to which one may forward in-
quiries and donations is “Guide Dogs for
the Blind,” 57 The Corso, Manly.
* ☆ Ct
Sydney’s first Millinery Ball, to be held
at the Empress Room, Mark Foy’s, on
November 1, will aid the Allambie Old
People’s Homes, and it is hoped that the
proceeds from this one ball, together
with the Government grant, will pay for
one complete unit for an aged couple.
A feature of the decorations will be a
giant-sized hat suspended over the band-
platform, and floral hats of all descrip-
tions will be modelled during the ball.
It follows the tradition of the Millinery
Ball, which is held in London each year,
and which has been responsible for rais-
ing many thousands of pounds to aid
aged people.
☆ ☆ ☆
A Scotswoman who emigrated to Aus-
tralia in 1939 after much travelling in
the Far East during her ’teens, then
qualifying as a pathologist, has just pro-


duced a novel in which Australia and
Burma are backgrounds to vivid true-life
drama. She is Vivian Stuart (now Mrs.
C. W. Mann, of York, England), and all
royalties of her Life Is the Destiny
(Robert Hale) will be donated to the
welfare-section of the Burma Star Asso-
ciation (the story covers the repatriation
of prisoners-of-war from the infamous
Japanese “Railway of Death”).
In Australia Miss Stuart practised as
a pathologist in Newcastle, and also
travelled across the Nullarbor Plain and
lived for a while in Sydney. About two
years ago she published a partly auto-
biographical novel with a Sydney back-
ground, No Single Star, which described
some of her experiences as a lecturer
on sales-psychology. She returned to
England in 1951 and launched out as
a writer, meeting with great success. She
has now had about 30 romantic novels
and serials published under the names
of Vivian Stuart, Alex Stuart, Barbara
Allen and Vivian Finlay.
MELBOURNE
Once again it was the pretty flower-
hat which saved the Moonee Valley Cup
meeting from drabness —the weather is
certainly playing tricks on women who
are eager to get into their summer frocks.
It was a day for suits, although the sun
shone brightly all through the afternoon.
Highlight was the arrival of the Governor,
Sir Dallas Brooks, and Lady Brooks,
who came to the racecourse from
Government House by helicopter. Lady
Brooks lunched with wives of committee-
members ; Mrs. A. J. Moir, wife of the
vice-chairman of the Moonee Valley
Racing Club, was hostess.
Lady Brooks chose a delightful mist-
blue suit with a matching winged cloche
finished with a tiny brow-veil; her
umbrella was in the same mist-blue
shade. Mrs. Moir topped her pale-grey
frock with a threequarter-length beige
coat and a head-hugging beige hat
trimmed with grey. Mrs. Harold Holt
wore a suit of reseda-green wool and
pinned a spray of lily-of-the-valley in
the low-placed belt on the front of the
jacket.
☆ ☆ ☆
Greek contralto Elena Nikolaidi travels
with a minimum of luggage, yet appears
on the concert-platform in a seemingly
endless array of lovely gowns. She owns
a superb magnolia satin sheath-gown on
which she “rings the changes” with two
stoles, one scarlet and the other a mag-
nificent turquoise blue. At her last
concert, at which she sang Mahler’s
“Songs of the Wayfarer” with the Vic-
torian Symphony Orchestra, she wore
the gown with the blue stole. From
one shoulder, the stole fell to the hem of
the skirt; it was then carried across the
back of the shoulders to be anchored
on the left shoulder with a diamond
brooch, and then hung loose to form a
train. Among those at the Town Hall
to hear her sing Mahler’s composition
were Lady Hyde, Mrs. Herbert Brookes,
Dr. and Mrs. E. Cunningham Dax, Mrs.
Guy Bakewell and Dr. and Mrs. Ivan
Maxwell.
☆ ☆ ☆
The president of the Royal Women’s
Hospital, Miss Kathleen A. Syme,
assisted by Mrs. George Bearham
(president of the ball-committee) and
Dr. Bearham, received the official guests
at the annual Hospital Ball at the Palais,
St. Kilda. Large urns of mixed flowers
and multicolored balloons were used in
decorating the ballroom. The official
table was decked-out in the hospital's
colors, blue and gold.
Official guests included the Governor
and Lady Brooks, the latter’s Princess-
line gown of champagne satin, having
the bodice encrusted with pearls, opales-
cent sequins and bugle-beads. Miss
Syme's choice was a gown of cream lace
over deep-cream satin, the lace em-
broidered with moonstone-paillettes and
the wide collar heavily embroidered with
opalescent stones, crystals and paillettes.
Mrs. Bearham allied a full skirt of navy
taffeta and a bodice of white guipure-
lace.
Ann, eldest daughter of Cr. and Mrs.
Leo Curtis, of Toorak, recently back from
a trip overseas with her parents, graduated
with honors from Mandeville Hall, and
is now studying for a business career.
Committees of which she is a member
Include that of the Loreto Old Girls'
Association.
The Maori Show got a grand welcome
when the premiere was held at the
Comedy Theatre. This Letter enjoyed
the musical singing, the clever poi per-
formances and the wild, enthusiastic
hakas. A little bit of Maori lore was
interesting to the audience. The leader
of the Maori company acted as challenger
and the challenged was Mr. R. Inglis,
the N.Z. Trade Secretary. He went on
stage, picked up the leaf placed at his
feet to show he was a friend, and then
the show went on. In the audience
were Minister of Transport Sir Arthur
Warner and Lady Warner, Mr. and Mrs.
Neil Rogers, and Mrs. T. Wallace
Mitchell, who was with Mrs. Roy King
and Mrs. Norman Spry.
☆ * ☆
“It's the atom-bomb, my dear,” women
are telling each other about the rain
which drenched this city day after day.
On the wettest and coldest night of the
month fashionably dressed women and
their escorts sipped champagne and
nibbled chicken - sandwiches as they
watched amateur mannequins parade in
fashions suitable for the warm weather
of the Gold Coast. The function was
arranged by the committee of the
Raveloe Auxiliary of the Lort Smith
Animal Hospital; the setting was the
lovely home of Mrs. A. Christie,
Butleigh Wootton, in Hawthorn.
Marjorie Tatnall and Pamela Middle-
ton, prominent members of the auxiliary,
received the guests, who included Dame
Mabel Brookes, president of the hospital,
Mrs. Enid Kinnear, Mrs. Norman Lynch,
Mrs. H. Silk, Mrs. Derek Rumbold,
Mrs. Rex Walpole, Mrs. Marshall
Gibson, Winsome Dane, Shirley Perry
(Adelaide) and Joy Bones. Included in
the mannequins were Mrs. James
Buchanan, Mrs. Stewart Moffat, Joy
Donoghue, Penny Lane and Barbara
Challingsworth.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Guy Bakewell has received the
news that her sister, Kathleen Deasey,
has been awarded a Fellowship of New
York University, and will work there
until January in the administrative sec-
tion of the Department of Education.
Kathleen, who has been teaching in a
school for gifted children, will on com-
pletion of this assignment visit the U.K.
before returning home next year.
☆ * *
Among many farewell parties given
for Mrs. Saul Aarons, who with her
husband leaves at the end of the month
for a trip to the U.S., was a luncheon
held at Mrs. H. Silk’s Toorak home.
The hostess wore a sheath-frock of
black-patterned white silk, the guest-of-
honor an attractive blouson suit of navy
corded silk and a small white hat.
Among the guests were Mrs. Charles
Disney, Mrs. Grey Staley and Mrs. John
Heath (this trio next day entertained
Mrs. Aarons and other friends at a
luncheon at the Hotel Australia), Mrs.
John Carrodus, Mrs. Bob Young, Mrs.
Ray Shatin, Mrs. George Haines, Mrs.
Norman Lynch and Mrs. Ruth Sluice.
v V v
Mr. Wing Dan’s home in Hopetoun
Road, Toorak, was decorated with
orchids, lilac and iris for the late-
afternoon party given by the committee
of the Australia-Free China Association.
Assisting Mr. Wing Dan was his
daughter, Mrs. M. H. Wong, and sec-
retary H. E. Henry and Mrs. Henry.
Among the 50 guests were Mr. and Mrs.
W. K. Burnside, Mr. and Mrs. H.
Warren, Mr. and Mrs. Walter Lindrum
and Miss L. Savage.


wrote years ago for “Art in Australia”:
so that it is not to be regarded as his
full, considered statement on Australian
art, but rather as a fragment of criti-
cism and as a memorial to a rich and
turbulent personality who, as R. G.
Menzies says in a letter printed in the
foreword, “followed, sometimes feroci-
ously, the truth as he saw it.” Not, one
imagines, that MacDonald would want
to retract very much of it —particularly
if anyone argued the point with him.
D. S.
The New Shute
The local color is not really import-
ant in Nevil Shute’s new novel, The
Rainbow and the Rose (Heinemann),
which his enormous audience will
doubtless read as a romance without
bothering about much more than the
swift movement of the story; but at
the same time one must express a
certain admiration for the way in which
he handles —or avoids handling—the
Australian parts of it.
The countryside is seldom seen except
from the air and in bad weather. Once
the plot has been served, and the
English or American reader has enough
information (from the bits of Tas-
manian geography neatly worked into
the early chapters) to be able to follow
the story without an atlas, the author
wisely leaves well alone.
But it is in the problem of the people
that the author’s real deftness shows.
This is nicely handled by making the
main characters English and Canadian-
English. There is an Australian nurse,
but she was brought here as a child
by her English grandmother, so her
talk doesn’t have to ring true all the
time. Of course there are some locals
in it as well; but they don’t talk much,
aside from commonplaces and formali-
ties or reports on the radio. The young
doctor deserves a hand, and there is
only one bad slip: when the house-
keeper, presumably Australian, says:
“Just leave everything upon the table
when you’ve done.” It just isn’t Aus-
tralian usage.
For the first few chapters this novel
looks like being a first-rate yarn about
technical people. An ageing pilot lies
seriously injured after a crash-landing
on an almost inaccessible part of Tas-
mania’s west coast, and the narrator,
an old friend and flying-pupil, is trying
to fly a doctor to him. You learn a
fair bit about civil aviation in Tas-
mania and the tricks of flying light
planes in bad weather. Then night
falls—on rescue and novel alike.
The narrator goes to bed and dreams
that he is the old pilot in his younger
days in England: in the R.F.C., his
unhappy marriage, his disastrous love-
affair; things the narrator could not
have consciously known about. This
device makes for neat construction, but
you need a better reason for doing it
than that. As it is, it looks like some-
thing a “clever” young novelist would
do, and it only underlines the senti-
mentalities and improbabilities of this
very large part of the story.
J. A.
A Wild Turkey
The solidity of observed fact in a
novel seems to bear no relation to its
manner of expression; otherwise Wild
Turkey, by Max Brown (Georgian
House), would be practically unread-
able.
An American film-unit comes to
Australia to do a film in an Australian
setting; the Australian engaged as
deputy-assistant-director falls for the
Hollywood star, and she, being at a
loose end, takes him as a lover. They
make love in a seaside cottage near
Sydney and again on location in the
desert; she, a heavy beer-drinker at any
time, goes on the hard stuff when she
gets a letter saying the great love of
her life, who had also ill-treated her,
was in a wheel-chair in America with
polio; and her Australian lover, retreat-
ing from this situation, and having
been publicised in a car-smash with
his arm round another woman, she
dismisses him from her service and has
him dismissed from the film-unit.
Max Brown makes all this clear; and
his scenes in Sydney and in the country
—portraits of Americans talking busi-
ness, quarrelling on the set, at a
Sydney night-club party with a Sydney
underworld boss —are vivid and con-
temporary.
But the book suffers from what you
might call an undeclared attitude. If
at first you feel the author’s treatment
of the Americans a little tough, you
then come to a passage where he
inveighs against the Australian Gov-
ernment for not making the film itself;
but you have no sooner concluded that
he is writing-down the Americans
because they are not Australians than
you come to a character he has put in to
say the Yanks are momma’s boys,
Coca-Cola salesmen, no good in war,
carpet-bag swindlers, etc.; and then you
realise why Brown is writing-down
Americans, i.e., because they live under
a capitalistic system and are therefore
incapable of good.
This having been decided, it hardly
matters how Brown treats his people;
the central attitude being unstated, he
approaches his subject from any old
viewpoint. At one moment he is a
sardonic observer of a young lady who
is willing to sleep with anyone to get
work on a film; but when his hero gets
to work on the film-star their “souls
fuse in a kiss”; and again:—
Quickly, as though the moment
might never come again, she pulled
him to her, and together they
descended into the blue depths of the
ocean, and hand-in-hand wandered
past coral palaces into the lazy
forests of kelp.
From this Hollywooden love-cliche
he hares-off to a Havelock Ellis
exploration of the star’s libido; and
when she has finally dismissed his hero
Brown feels sorry for her: —
She had been bred to be the
mistress of conquerors in an off-
season for conquerors. She had been
flung on to the rim of a crumbling
empire, and thence into a film
colony grown up on the ashes of
burned villages on the last frontier.
That about sums it up: to blow a
rich woman’s casual affair up into a
battle of empires argues soggy Holly-
wood nonsense on the one hand and
soggy political nonsense on the other;
both literary insincerities, both ruinous
of good writing.
Sheep-station Mystery
Set on an Australian sheep-station,
A Shroud for Unlac, by S. H. Courtier
(Hammond), is a mystery of some
merit.
The main theme is excellently
invented: the old grazier has at last
grown a plant the fibre of which is
better than wool, and has invited
representative citizens to come and see.
A Melbourne company has woven the
fibre into clothes; the old grazier is
wearing a suit. He retires from the press
to his room in an old shed, and a little
later rushes out with his clothes on fire,
and dies of heart-failure. So who set
him afire?
Was it his wife, who has gone queer,
and spends her time in a cellar making
dolls; his spendthrift son whom he has
always treated badly; his daughter or
the jackeroo, whose engagement the
old grazier has prevented; his super-
cilious grazier-neighbor who is offer-
ing £lOO,OOO for the seed of the wonder-
plant so that he may destroy it; or the
skin-buyer, who so curiously resembles
someone, but they don’t know whom?
Thewan, as the grazier’s executor,
and Mahon, a holidaying police-
magnifico, have to work it out. There
are attempts to steal the will, and
attacks by night; and a final scene in
which the murderer has kidnapped
Thewan’s two children and sits on a
plank in such a way that, if he is
attacked and made to roll off it, it will
fall at its other end and explode the
dynamite that will destroy the children
—as such things go, it is quite well
handled.


Our Man in Havana
Graham Greene
Like Ministry of Fear and Confidential Agent, this
new novel is a melodrama with undertones. 18/9
WILLIAM HE3NEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
Four Plays
by Douglas Stewart
This volume brings together four of the author’s well-known plays—Ned Kelly; The
Fire on the Snow, a powerful presentation of Scott’s fatal journey to the South Pole;
The Golden Lover; a comedy of Maori life; and Shipwreck, the story of the Batavia!
30/- (post 9d.)
at all booksellers and . . «
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Bradman on Cricket
Nobody is better fitted than Bradman
to discuss The Art of Cricket (Hodder
and Stoughton), which is a considerable
enlargement of the instructional book
he published in 1934.
From his great experience with the
bat comes the description of how to
play every shot in the repertoire, often
enlivened by anecdote or reminiscence.
All strokes are illustrated, either by
Bradman himself or by some other Test
batsman. There are also shots of how
not to do it —how not to face a bumper,
for instance.
Bradman was not a bowler of class
himself, but obviously understands
that art, too. Once, during the lunch-
interval in a Test in Brisbane (he does
not refer to this in his book), he took
out an Australian bowler and told him
how he wanted him to bowl—with very
definite results thereafter. The grips
used by many famous bowlers are
illustrated, and many are shown in
action.
Every part of cricket is discussed —•
captaincy; the perennial question of
the fairness of tossing for innings
(Bradman is in favor of keeping it as
is); equipment; fielding; the importance
to a team of the wicketkeeper; the
problems facing those maligned indi-
viduals, selectors and umpires; the
ideal XI; a brief outline of the origins
and history of cricket from the days of
“creaget” (1300 or so); and a disserta-
tion on the virtues of cricket, in which
he thinks it would be a great thing for
the British peoples if America took up
the game.
Every cricket enthusiast will find the
book chockfull of interest.
Reviewed Briefly
The Whipping Boys: Guy Culling-
ford (Hammond and Hammond). A
murder-story with English Teddy-boys
the suspects. As they are posed as
“whipping-boys for the state of the
world,” the story would seem to have
some pretensions to social significance.
But it is actually just a murder-story,
rough but readable.
* * * *
A Summer Place: Sloan Wilson
(Cassell). An American businessman
meets the woman with whom, many
years before, he had had an adolescent
affair which neither has quite for-
gotten. Since both are now unhappily
married they retangle, boots, children
and all. Helped considerably by the
author—a very quick man with a con-
trivance—they shuffle off their respec-
tive spouses and get what they seem
to be after. So do the children, about
whose morals the parents, between
beds, are very worried indeed. There
are signposts at every turn of the story
to guide you through the complications;
the moral hills are neatly skirted; the
scenery is pleasant; and, except for the
frequent bumps on psychological
cliches, it makes a smooth and
uninteresting drive.
* * * *
The Innocents: Richard Savage
(Museum Press). The suspense in this
story is somewhat less than troubling,
but there is enough action to keep it
moving along. A rather naive American
comes to London to gain custody of
his' young son, whose Communist
mother seeks to bear him off behind
the Iron Curtain. To frustrate this the
American kidnaps his son and so puts
himself outside the law. The story is
well written but lacks vigor.
* * * *
Man Overboard: Monica Dickens
(Michael Joseph). A fairly readable
novel about an axed Lieutenant-
Commander, R.N., and his mildly
picaresque adventures in civilian life.
With considerable technical skill, Miss
Dickens manoeuvres her hero in and
out of diverse situations, some improb-
able, some not. Tragically bereaved
of a faithless wife, he next chooses
a lowly-born TV-actress, selfish and
edgy, who discards him. The best
incident is his involvement, though not
so far as active connivance, in a swindle
to extract money from the wives of
serving ratings. Later adventures, as
bursar of an ineffectual prep, school
and as suitor to its unremarkable
and casual housekeeper, are less
appealing.
* * * *
Confessions of a European in Eng-
land: J. H. Huizinga (Heinemann). It
begins as one of those books of
alternate praise and blame which
gently tickle national characteristics
and are widely bought and discussed in
the country under discussion. Then
Huizinga, a Dutch journalist based on
England, begins criticising British
politics and foreign policy; is shocked
by what he considers British abandon-
ment of enlightened international ethics
in the Suez Canal business; and finally
demands that Britain head the move-
ment for a federated Europe. He is
quite persuasive, but he might have
been more persuasive at less length.
* # * *
Lawful Pursuit: Michael Underwood
(Hammond). Defendants at an English
magistrate’s court are being vanished-
away for money. Detective-superin-
tendent Manton gets a girl to make-up
to one Mendolia, who stands-over
London street-girls, and himself inves-
tigates an old negro woman street-
singer who seems to be using her songs
as a code between escapees and escape-
arrangers. The trail leads to the top
of Africa and back; the conclusion is
fumbled, and so is the girl-spy’s falling
in love with the vice-king—probably
she did, but it doesn’t ring true in
fiction.


44
KEY MEN”. .. N 0.2
m
r
m
mm;
m-
■m
m
%
m
m
Conventional Staff Superannuation Plans may not always be adequate
in the case of “Key Men” !
What is really needed is heavy emphasis on protection against death,
combined with modified retirement benefits.
A.M.P. “Key Man” plans are tailored to meet the needs of the
individual and his company.
*
RING: SYDNEY .... B 0530
MELBOURNE . MB 1781
BRISBANE ... FA 1981
ADELAIDE ... LA 2372
PERTH BA 2001
HOBART . . . . B 7621
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
GENERAL MANAGER.- M. C. BUTT FIELD
Every A.M.P. member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by funds exceeding £375,000,000 which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to member..
ZII7C
