

Now Available in a
6-VOLT SIZE!
CENTURY’S
PROVEN HOMELIGHTING
BATTERY
Here’s a battery that brings a new conception in Homelighting
convenience. >
IT’S CENTURY’S 613 CPG a 6-volt battery with
transparent polystyrene container, glass insulation, and inbuilt
gravity ball hydrometer IN EACH 2-VOLT CELL.
613 CPG also contains SILVIUM, the magical LONG-
LIFE additive exclusive to CENTURY.
3 years’ practical experience all over Australia have
PROVED the superiority of this type of battery over
all others.
Century Homelighting batteries are supplied in WET and
FULLY CHARGED condition. Long experience has
shown that this is necessary to ensure the highest state of
efficiency.
Manufactured by CENTURY STORAGE BATTERY CO.,
LTD., Alexandria, N.’S.W.
DISTRIBUTED BY:
Bradley Bros. Ltd., Grimly Ltd., Motor
Traders Ply. Ltd., Sydney; Industrial
Sales and Service I'ty. Ltd., LidcombeCentury Storage Battery Co.
Pty. Ltd.,' North Melbourne; Century Batteries (S.A.) Ltd., Adelaide;
I’. 11. Phillips Battery Supplies Pty., Brisbane; Plant and Plant
(Machinery) Pty. Ltd., Toowoomba ; Samuel Allen Sons Ltd., Towns-
ville ; Wyper Bros. Limited, Buiidaberg-; Advanx Tyre and Motor Service,
Cairns; Lawrence Motor Company,-Rockhampton-; Corset - & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Maryborough; Gympie Machinery & KTectrical Coy., Gympie; Jas.
Crokor & Sons, Maekay; Attcyood Motors Ptv. Ltd., Perth: C. C.
Boag Batteries, Hobart and Launceston; Allen Bros. (Darwin) Pty. Ltd.,
Darwin ; Watson, Steele Cc Ganley Ltd., Auckland, N.Z.
W:
■t
m- : i c ':J
mmm
Pflifuij i
■ i-:
Century's 613 CPG 6-volt Homelighting Battery.
Note inbuilt gravity ball hydrometer in all three
2-volt cells. These show the battery’s state of
charge clearly visible at all times. A battery of
the same dimensions is also available as a 4-volt
uiiit.
GUARANTEED
3 YEARS
AT LEFT: —=A' .complete 36-volt set of 613 CPG
Home Light,ipg batteries. Available also for 32-
volt, 50-volt and 110-volt installations. PRICE
OF COMPLETE 32-VOLT SET COMPRISING
FOUR 6-VOI.T IMTS AND TWO 4-
VOLT UNITS, AT CAPITAL CITIES
IS ONLY
£5O
Send the coupon below today to CENTURY
STORAGE BATTERY CO., LTD., Birmingham
St., Alexandria, N.S.W.
Please send me full details of the Century 6 1 3 CPG
Home Lighting Battery.
NAME
ADDRESS
The Bulletin
WOOL ISSUE
Wednesday, May 28, 1958
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered In Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


DOO K H INTER, Box G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us rind it for you— fiction,
text book, biopraphy. history, etc. Moderate
tee only if successful
The Red Page
ALL LIT UP
The collector of rare and limited
editions of printed books is only a
piker in the field of illuminated books,
of which every copy is unique: and
the value of any of the hundreds of
books described in The Illuminated
Book, Its History and Production, by
David Diringer (Faber), must begin in
the thousands.
Illumination as it is understood by
experts is not merely illustration, and
not merely the drawing of initials, etc.,
in colors: —
The page of an illuminated book
has to be “lighted up” with bright
colors and burnished gold or silver
foil. “Perfect illumination,” writes
John W. Bradley, “must contain
both colors and metals.”
With “illumination” goes the term
“miniature,” for the delicately painted
picture, “some scene from the artist’s
own experience—a market-place, it
may be, or some banquet at the court
of Burgundy in the fifteenth century or,
again, a religious scene rivalling in
effect and minuteness of detail the
greater pictures of Italian artists . . .”
but “miniature” as applied to a little
portrait is of recent usage “due to its
accidental confusion by the French
writers with the French word “mig-
non” and the Latin “minus”: —
According to some scholars, the
words “miniature” —from the Latin
“minium,” or red paint, and
“miniare,” to color with minium—■
and “vermilion” are of the same
root; among the Romans bright red
was the chief color of “illuminated”
letters, the pigments used being
either sulphide of mercury (or ver-
milion) or, particularly, a lead-oxide
(now called red lead). “Miniare” was
originally applied to a picture in an
“illuminated” manuscript, but later
to the highly-specialised art of paint-
ing manuscripts.
The age of the world’s books is of
some interest: the earliest illustrated
book is the Ramesseum Papyrus. 20
centuries before Christ; the earliest
Greek illustrated book is another papy-
rus, possibly a schoolbook, with geo-
metric diagrams, of about 165 8.C.;
an “Iliad” of which only the pictures,
58 pages of them, on vellum, survive,
colored in white, red, green, blue,
purple and yellow, may have been done
in the third to the fifth century A.D.;
while “no illuminated Latin MS. has
come down to us which can be assigned
to a period earlier than the fourth
century A.D.”; the Vatican and the
Roman Virgils are probably the oldest.
But the true illuminated book, which
came to its peak around the 1400’s,
was a Byzantine invention: —
Medieval illumination began with
gold writing, or chrysography, of
Byzantine MSS from chryso-
graphy, the introduction of entirely
gold grounds, with the characters
traced in black ink... .books of this
kind were written for Charlemagne
and other Western monarchs
And so Dr. Diringer goes on (for
450 large pages) with his catalogue of
the world’s foremost illuminated books,
Hiberno-Saxon, which takes in the Irish
Book of Kells with its 2,100 ornate
capitals running 158 interlacements to
the quarter-inch (“must have been
traced by angels”) and the more deli-
cately-colored English “Lindisfarne
Gospels”; Carolingian, 011 oni a n,
Islamic, Hebrew, Mozarabic, Italian.
French, Burgundian, Netherland and
Flemish—culminating in the “Most
Rich Book of the Hours” which the
three Limbourg brothers were engaged
to paint for the Duke of Berry, who
died in 1416: —
The zenith of the whole art of
illumination was here reached, and
though subsequently various superb,
luxurious, and brilliant masterpieces
were executed by great painters, a
definite gradual decadence in point
of taste may be noted.
Dr. Diringer’s book is most lavishly
illustrated with seven separate folds of
plates running 30 to 40 pages a sec-
tion and six colored plates —of which
only one, of Anthony in the Desert,
with a surround of carnations and
butterflies on a gold ground, is truly
illuminated; there are bibliographies to
each section, a general bibliography,
an index, and a chronological index
. . . and maybe this is enough to write
of even so sumptuous a book, about
books which no Red Page reader is
likely to be allowed to hold in his
hands.
Kon-Tiki Again
A good deal of rather anguished
publicity has accompanied the review-
copy of Thor Heyerdahl’s Aku-Aku
(Allen and Unwin).
Heyerdahl's first book, the won-
derful story of his raft-voyage from
Peru to Raroia, has sold, it appears,
over four-million copies. “American
Indians in the Pacific,” the gigantic
and no-less-fascinating scientific work
which followed it (giving chapter and
verse for Heyerdahl’s theory that Easter
Island was originally populated by
white - skinned, red - haired refugees
from pre-Inca Peru who subsequently
spread around me other islands of
the Pacific and intermingled with the
brown-skinned invaders from North
America), sold only 11,000 copies;
which, as the publishers console them-
selves, was “no mean achievement for
a 70s. scientific book”—but still, short
of four-million.
The agonising question now is; How
will “Aku-Aku” go?
In Sweden (“79,000 copies sold”) one
reviewer, quoted with immense appro-
val, has said it is “more exciting than
‘Kon-Tiki’.” That, perhaps, is an exag-
geration. The Kon-Tiki voyage was a
unique and superb adventure. But, at
least from the archaeological viewpoint,
“Aku-Aku” is certainly exceptionally
exciting ; and, since it mingles with the
archaeology a most colorful account of
present-day life on Easter Island and
the day-to-day adventures of Heyer-
dahl’s expedition as they clambered
down the perilous cliffs, danced the
hula-hula with equally perilous dusky
maidens and burrowed with tribal sor-
cerers into the island’s secret caverns
full of skeletons and sculptures, the
publishers may rest assured that it is
likely to do well enough.
From the viewpoint of the present
reviewer, who must confess in all
proper humility that he was one of the
privileged 11,000 who liked “American
Indians in the Pacific” just as much as
“Kon-Tiki” —surely it is strange and
pleasing to think of these islands in
our own nearby oceans as populated
n-ot merely by brown savages but by a
civilised, white-skinned race, masters
of classic sculpture —the archeological
aspects of “Aku-Aku” are at once pro-
foundly exciting and, if not disappoint-
ing, tantalising.
On the one hand, Heyerdahl and his
companions are the first expedition to
have dug Easter Island, and they dug-
up the most surprising things: most
notably a monstrous ten-ton stone
statue, primitive in form and features,
quite different from the classic statues
everybody knows about, suggesting
that the island has been inhabited for
a very long period in time, with leisure
to develop its own distinctive sculp-
ture ; and also a layer of charcoal in
a ditch, which was evidence for the
truth of the natives’ legend of how the
civilised “long-ears” were betrayed and
destroyed by their “short-ear” slaves
and burnt in their own defensive moat.
With the co-operation of the mayor,
a white-skinned, red-haired native who
remembered his ancestral traditions
the expedition solved the mystery of
how the giant statues were moved about
the island and raised into position:
rolled, quite simply, on wooden rollers;
raised by lifting them infinitesimally
with wooden levers and wedging stones
into the cranny, then another lift and
more stones, until eventually they lay
high in the sir upon a platform of
stones from which they could be slid
(i Continued on page 90)


ONE BAG
OR
1.000 BALES
receive the same
Personal Service from
TRAINED WOOL
STAFF
m
a*
'■mm*
You can be sure that your
wool will be displayed to
advantage on our well
lighted spacious show
floors in all the major
centres in Australia.
COMPLETE SERVICE TO THE MAN ON THE LAND
Insurance,
180 Branches give Nationwide Service to the Man on the Land,
covering Wool, Merchandise, Shipping, Travel, Chartering,
Skin and Hides, Land and Livestock, Rural Banking.
ELDER. SMITH & GO
Adelaide, Perth, Albany, Melbourne. Geelong, Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane, London
with which are amalgamated
COMMONWEALTH WOOL & PRODUCE CO. LIMITED .... SYDNEY
NENCO LIMITED NEWCASTLE
MOPFHEAn* LIMITED .... BRISBANE


The Bulletin
Wednesday, May 28,1958
Vol. 79—No. 4085
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Wesiralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand: Nathans Buildings (opposite
GJP.O.), Wellington.
BLACK-AND-WHITE PAPER
nrHE Federal Government’s White
Paper on the Australian economy
tabled in the House by Treasurer
Fadden the day before Parliament went
into winter recess aims, according to
its foreword, “to bring together and
interpret the main facts of our changing
economic situation and to set forth the
issues which these economic trends and
necessities present.”
As the review was prepared by the
economic advisers who are in large
measure responsible for the Government’s
economic policy, it is not surprising that
in interpreting the facts and setting forth
the issues it has about it an air of com-
fortable content and optimism. What
is sensed can be summed-up: we’re not
doing too badly ; things could be a lot
worse, and provided too many forces
beyond our control don’t interfere, every-
thing's going to be all right!
Reviewing business activity during
1957, the survey says that 12 months
ago it was apparent that the forces which
caused the boom of 1954-55 had largely
spent their strength and that as the new
financial year began the essential problem
was to “preserve the recently-found
balance between supply and demand and
at the same time ensure sufficient all-
round expansion to take up the additional
labor that would come forward during the
year from migration and local increase.”
Unemployment, though higher than a
year earlier, was still small. The chief
need was to secure a steady increase of
total expenditure at stable prices and to
give encouragement to investment
expenditure.
It is claimed that the expenditure-
increases totalling £BO million provided
for in the last Federal Budget “clearly
... . would give a fair measure of stimulus
to both consumption- and investment-
expenditure generally.” The claim is fair
enough, but it is doubtful whether this
was the purpose of the increased
expenditure.
Continuing its reminiscences of the
Budget, the review observes that
reductions in company-tax and payroll-
tax and a revised basis for depreciation-
allowances “could be expected to assist
business and support industrial invest-
ment” ; income-tax and sales-tax con-
cessions were “more likely to stimulate
consumer-expenditure.”
Of indexes of prosperity towards the
end of 1957, the survey records that
exports for the July-December half-year
were a few million pounds higher than in
1956, though it was recognised that with
smaller bulk and lower prices this gain
would be more than offset by a drop in
the second half of the financial year.
Spending on consumer-goods was up,
and appeared to be strengthening. Retail
sales for the September quarter were £3O
million higher than in 1956 and for the
December quarter £34 million. New cars
registered in the July-December period
numbered 78,879, compared with 73,942
the previous year. Dwelling-commence-
ments showed a “strong increase” in the
June and September quarters, fell steeply
in the December quarter, but recovered
again in the first three months of 1958.
A sharp rise in unemployment in
December and January, though
intrinsically not large, “raised the ques-
tion whether additional labor becoming
available through migration and young
people leaving school were going to be
absorbed —or, if they were, if other people
might not be put out of work.”
Movements in costs and prices during
( • the year were small ; average weekly
earnings increased slightly. The state of
the economy, claims the survey with con-
siderable justification, is sounder in most
respects than it was two years ago.
Demand is greater, but the supply of
goods has increased so that there are
no shortages except for some classes of
imported goods. Our balance-of-pay-
ments position, after showing improve-
ment, has slipped, and “a point could
be reached at which, out of sheer
necessity, imports would again have to be
curtailed.”
On the industrial front considerable
progress can be claimed. In a list of 26
products ranging from coal and steel to
paint and newsprint only three showed a
decline in production last year compared
with two years earlier; biggest percen-
tage rises were in iron and steel, textiles,
cement, motor-bodies, gas and electricity.
The year 1955, incidentally, was itself a
time of strong industrial activity, so that
“the gains made have been added to a
performance that was already considered
high.”
v In discussing rural industry the survey
speaks of spectacular gains through the
increase in the number of sheep and the
size of the wool-clip (with due credit to
myxomatosis), and says that wheat-yields
have been remarkably high by past
standards, and the same is true of the
yields in a number of other industries.
In saying this it is apparently referring to
the general run of seasons, not to the past
drought-affected year. Reference is made
to marketing difficulties confronting
butter and other food-processing indus-
tries. The sage diagnosis is that this is
probably due to “constriction of markets”
rather than “any lack of willingness or
capacity to expand.”
Summing-up the home scene in guarded
phrases the survey decides that “we are in
a tolerably comfortable position,” but
that there are “some disquieting tenden-
cies within the economy itself, notably the
heavy fall in farm income.” This leads to
the observation that “the world economic
context has become less favorable to us
and whilst this trend has not had any
major impact on our local situation so
far, there should be no mistaking the
possibilities of trouble it could hold for
the future.”
'T'he most noticeable feature of world
trade is that industrial production in
the free world, which increased by about
10 per cent, in 1955 and 5 per cent, in
1956, to the accompaniment of rising
employment, tapered-off in the early part
of 1957 and had come to a halt by the
second half of the year.
One result of this, important to Aus-
tralia, has been a sharp fall in raw-
material prices. Wool has been about
35 per cent, below 1956-57 levels ; metals
have fallen by 30 per cent. ; butter by
20 per cent. The position is relieved
somewhat by the fact that the year began
with overseas funds high and a high rate
of capital-inflow has been maintained.
The future? Well, that depends on trends
in the leading industrial countries,
particularly America. As to that, we
mustn't be too optimistic about an early
return of expansion. On the other hand,
“there are grounds for believing that the
situation will not be allowed to
deteriorate to a very marked degree.”
A lthough it is the Government’s
announced intention of continuing
import-licensing in 1958-59 on the basis
of imports at approximately £BOO million
a year, a further down-turn in export
earnings might eat into reserves to such a
degree as to make necessary further
curtailments of imports.
Our objective on the home front, there-
fore, should be to keep expansion moving
at a steady rate and this predicates keep-
ing up the flow of migrants. This will
give industry the assurance of steadily
expanding home-markets without giving
rise to unmanageable pressures on the
economy.
This has been demonstrated in the past
two or three years “during which it has
been possible to bring stability out of an
active boom without making a drastic
cut in immigration.” Keeping expansion
on the move will assist us more than any- ’
thing else to continue attracting overseas
capital,
the inflow of which has helped us invalu-
ably during recent years by the support it
has given to our balance-of-payments,
by the addition it has made to investible
funds within Australia and by the accom-
panying flow of new techniques and know- .
how.
“On the whole,” comments the survey,
“the general context of the economy is
propitious to well-considered enterprise."
One cannot expect an official paper to
make any wild prophecies, and this White
Paper certainly attempts none. Its
purport is that things will either go on as
they are or get better, unless of course,
they get worse.


THE SCALER


PLAIN ENGLISH
France at the Crossroads
Over the weekend the situation in
France had not reached the point of
definition, but it was clear that the unrest
in Algeria and the colonies and Corsica,
though strong, had not yet got out of
hand.
In Algiers the move of the Army and
the “committees of public safety” have
been dictated by the fear of detachment
from France, and so placing a million or
so of French colonists at the mercy of
a Moslem majority or under the necessity
of leaving their homes and returning to
Europe. Pflimlin, the Premier, has given
an assurance that there will be no detach-
ment of Algeria.
The rebellion in Corsica seems to have
a different complexion, being the action
of a band of extreme Rightists headed
by a member of the National Assembly
who have seized an opportunity to
attempt to counter forcibly the continual
drift of French politics toward the Left.
The last elections saw the Communist
party in the National Assembly increase
from 99 to 149, thus becoming the largest
party in Parliament. The opportunity was
taken in Corsica at a moment of Govern-
ment weakness and instability, but action
was obviously ill-judged and dangerous.
The salient feature of the situation up
to the weekend was the relative calm
and orderliness of the population in
France, and Paris in particular, and the
determination of all responsible parties
to try to sort-out the mess on a
legal, Constitutional basis.
While in the Algerian movement, both
within and without the Army, there was
a strong Rightist extreme element, the
command of the situation was still in
the hands of General Salan, who had
never broken relationships with the
Government.
In Paris Premier Pflimlin was tempor-
arily in command with the backing of
Parliament for a few days of grace which
would enable him to bring-down Consti-
tutional reform measures to lend stability
to the Government and the Republic.
And jde Gaulle, the only other figure in
sight with a chance of anything like
national support, was at one with the
Government in a determination that any
change made must be made within
the structure of the powers of the
Constitution.
The Corsican situation and the serious
turn of events in Tunisia which followed
naturally on the Algerian moves, and
effervescent unrest in Tahiti and other
colonies, lent a new character to the
situation and more urgency to the need
for strong measures to stabilise the whole
position. The danger was accentuated by
the formation of a Committee of Public
Safety at Toulouse and the defection of
Admiral Auboyneau’s squadron of seven
ships which left the Nato fleet at Malta
to join Salan’s forces in Algiers at the
weekend.
The Government acted quickly, with
reinforcements of troops to Algeria, the
dispatch of a parachute-force to Ajaccio
(where the outbreak appeared to be, for
the time being, at any rate, local) and
the hurried bringing-down of the Consti-
tutional Reform Bill, which was about to
be debated after the draft resolution for
it had been approved by the National
Assembly Committee by 21 votes to 12,
all the votes against being Communist,
though there were six abstentions from
the Left-wing parties in addition.
The measure provides for the delega-
tion of powers to the Government to
legislate by decree, with shorter terms for
Parliament and stability of administration
obtained by a proviso in the reformed
Constitution that the Government can
only be overthrown on a vote of censure
which specifically names a successor to
the Premiership.
This second point places on the Par-
liament, if the bill is passed by absolute
majorities of both Houses, the respon-
sibility for any call to leadership which
is made, if the Pflimlin Ministry, having
returned to power after resignation,
fails to carry on under the reformed
conditions.
What exactly was happening in Paris
when this was written was not altogether
clear. On the resolution last week which
gave the Government power to deal with
the Algerian situation, the Communists
voted for the Government as a demon-
stration against the Right, but without
them the Government still seemed to
have a majority of its own, though sub-
ject to qualifications. The French popula-
tion, like all populations which have
nearly full employment—and France’s is
the fullest in the world —are averse to
violence. The accounts which were pub-
lished in Australia of disturbances in
Paris, on the evidence af the Euro-
pean press, seem to have been grossly
exaggerated.
However, France is an explosive mix-
ture, and what happens will depend
almost entirely on the Government’s
handling of the tricky reform-legislation
which it must steer through Parliament
this week.
Any revolution in France, especially if
it had the leadership of somebody like
de Gaulle, who belongs to the Right, and
whose existence after the war thwarted
the fondest hopes of the Kremlin and its
agents to sweep not only Germany but
France into the Communist maw, would
have world-wide reactions. The results
might be such as to change the fgce of
the world by prompting seizure of the
French zone in GermanyFy the Russians
or their “volunteers” and the inter-
vention of Russia in France by under-
ground methods or otherwise.
France cannot fall into civil war with-
out Europe running the risk of being
sucked into total war.
The Military Life
Recruiting for the defence forces has
declined in spite of all the whistling in
the wind by Ministers.
The eagerness with which the Army
itself is canvassing for support is evidence
enough. To get the aspirants necessary to
fill the classes that lead to stalf appoint-
ments such devices have to be adopted
as the mobilisation of 33 headmasters of
schools to visit the Royal Military Col-
lege, Duntroon, and see its advantages,
and visits by selected boys in groups for
holiday week-end camps at the college.
- The fact is that the outlook for any-
body joining the forces today is uncertain.
The Air Force doesn’t know whether
tomorrow it may be almost entirely
robot. It does know that at the tremen-
dous tempo of*ftying today only the super-
men survive in active flying for any time
in the combat sections, and that those
who do survive have short careers
whether in bombers or fighters. They
know also that Australia is the last place
in which to learn front-line work, though
the command is making a serious effort
through the exchange system to keep at
least some of its men and squadrons up-
to-date.
The R.A.N. has reason to feel depressed
as it sees navies everywhere dying save for
the submarine and aircraft - carriers.
Pessimism is magnified at the present time
by the arrival in Australia of frequent
batches of ex-R.N. officers of com-
mander’s rank, young, keen, cut-off in
the prime of their early forties by
retrenchment and looking for civilian
jobs—sometimes any civilian job—while
propagating the joke that the midship-
men have gone, the admirals are going,
and soon the R.N. will consist entirely
of padres retained to pray for the aboli-
tion of nuclear-bomb tests.
The authorities in Canberra have
announced an all-round advance in the
pay-scales, no doubt following the sub-
stantial one granted in England in the
present year’s Estimates. But even if pay
and opportunities were satisfactory it
would not be enough. The professional
defender of his country still sees himself
at a disadvantage as to pension, retire-
ment-age, housing, permanence of loca-
tion, hours and in a dozen other matters
beside the civilians —even “temporarily”
employed in his own department.
Nobody seems to have the courage to
tackle the problem. from the roots up-
wards. And until this is done both
recruiting and the defence services will
continue to sag. It is a serious problem
and an urgent one. It would be well worth
the time of a committee with knowledge of
both regular military life and the con-
trasts of civilian life to look at the whole
thing constructively and establish some
sort of system which will encourage the
new entrant into the forces to feel that
service life is more than a drab trailing
PRIZE SHORT-STORY
The Sydney Journalists’ Club
Award for 1957 for the best short-
story written by an Australian has
gone to Hal Porter, of Bairnsdale,
Victoria, for his story “Uncle Foss
and Big Bogga”
“Uncle Foss and Big Bogga” will
be printed in The Bulletin next
week.


from one station to another over 30
years or so for himself and his wife.
The general officer who has not had
at least 20 homes does not exist.
Flying High
|From Canberra]
The distinctive whine of T.A.A.’s Vickers
Viscounts will, by next year, become a
constant drone in the skyways of
Australia. _
By the end of 1959 T.A.A. and Ansett-
A.N.A. between them will be flying up to
20 Viscounts regularly ; T.A.A. will have
the best part of 12 Fokker Friendships in
the air (with almost the same engine as
the Viscounts); and each, company will
have two Lockheed Electra turbo-props,
which produce a similar high-pitched
whine.
Civil Aviation Minister Shane Paltridge
gave a glimpse of things to come when
he said this week that Cabinet had
approved the purchase of these aircraft
by the major operators in Australia.
The decision was a bit of a slap in the
eye for T.A.A., which was keen to get
permission to buy pure jets from
France—the Caravelles.
The decision is also rather a blow
to Reg Ansett, dynamic head of Ansett
Transport Industries.
However, the Government approval
for the Electras and refusal in the case
of the Caravelles was reached only after
a round - table conference between
T.A.A., Ansett, Qantas and Government
representatives.
The Electras will be used almost
exclusively on the transcontinental run
to Perth, while the Viscounts will be used
on the shorter inter-capital routes.
T.A.A. will have a slight edge on
Ansett in the feeder-services with
its pressurised, turbo-prop, 260-m.p.h.
Friendships, which will take over all runs
now operated by the Old Faithful DC3’s.
Qantas is also in on the deal, getting
approval for four Electras for the shorter •
hops to New Guinea, Japan, Hong Kong,
Noumea and the South Pacific.
Where necessary they will also supple-
ment the Kangaroo Route to London
after the Boeing jets take-over next year.
In all, the acquisition of the aircraft
fleets will involve £2O .million in overseas
funds.
Of this amount £l2 million will be for
the Electras, £5 million for the Friend-
ships and up to £3 million least for
new Viscounts which will supplement
those already in Australia.
Another aspect of the deal is the
re-equipment of T.E.A.L. with Electras —
but on a condition.
Agreement must be reached with New
Zealand regarding certain aerodrome
problems in Kiwi country and also
Qantas must be allowed to charter
T.E.A.L. Electras in excess of T.E.A.L.’s
“aircraft capacity.”
Another condition attaching to
T.E.A.L.’s permission to get Electras is
“a through N.Z. service by Qantas under
charter to T.E.A.L.” —in Paltridge’s own
words.
In other words, N.Z, plays ball and
allows Qantas to operate through N.Z.
to America, or Qantas will come in and
swamp T.E.A.L.
Fair Go, Fair Lady!
{From “Collins Street”]
No show in J. C. Williamson’s long,
history has suffered such infringements
of its copyright as “My Fair Lady,” the
musical based on Bernard Shaw’s “Pyg-
malion,” which, may break both the
Broadway and Drury Lane long-run
records.
The latest —er —ar —infringers were the
producers of Melbourne University’s
annual revue, who included a sketch,
“My Fair Laddie,” With four slightly dis-
guised, or undisguised, songs from the
original. It was dropped after a warning
from Chappell’s, holders of the Aus-
tralian copyright.
Liberace had got into quite a huff
when rapped on his tapered fingers about
playing tunes from the show ; and no
wonder, since there are continual reports
of professional and amateur bands,
cabaret-singers and others cashing-in, and
a B-class radio-station blandly played
selections.
Ever since “Oklahoma!” arrived on
Broadway to demonstrate that a musical
can be fine entertainment (and, in that
instance, folk-opera), there has been a
wonderfully lucrative lurk in importing
the Broadway records of successful shows
and selling the tape-recordings in Aus-
tralia. All records have been broken
already with “My Fair Lady.”
Williamson’s naturally are wrathful
about all this. They got the Australian
rights against a score of competitors,
including those (as in the current TV-
hearings) “about to form companies” and
others who claimed to have the
backing of the Federal Government, no
less, simply because they had made a
success of the authors’ “Brigadoon” and
“Paint Your Waggon.”
The Australian premiere of “My Fair
Lady” will be in Melbourne in Novem-
ber, and just on a year’s run is expected.
As the musical score is released simul-
taneously, this means it will be familiar
in Sydney at least for an additional year,
and for longer periods in other cities.
Williamson’s think the chief reason
their musicals run about twice as long
in Melbourne as in Sydney is because the
music is so much fresher in Melbourne.
H.-p. As It Is
Professor Richard Downing, Ritchie
Research Professor of Economics at Mel-
bourne University, whose analyses of
trends and figures have been informative
and occasionally stimulating, has now
coitie up with the results of his researches
on hire-purchase as it is, and not as
some politicians like to present it.
The effective rate, he found, on new
cars, trucks, plant and machinery was
\2\ per cent.; on used cars, 15 to 17y
per cent.; and on household goods from
15| to 19£ per cent. These rates were
cot as unreasonable as they appeared,
since the companies had to borrow money
around 7 per cent, and administrative
costs were estimated at 4 } per cent.
The professor found that the large
profits being made by some h.-p. cos.
indicated a high demand for their services,
which-should attract more companies into
the field and lower profit-margins. Direct
Government control of the h.-p. business
in Australia was out of the question, but
all companies should be legally required
to staff both publicly and to debtors the
true incidence of their charges. (The
advertised claims of some retailers to
extend hire-purchase at 6\ p.c.,jr mani-
festly economically unreal rate when their
h.-p. offshoots are offering 7 p.c. for
funds, has doubt prompted this
suggestion.)
Professor Downing, who seems to have
consulted his colleagues during has
researches, finds that most economists are
not unduly concerned by the rapid growth
of hire-purchase in Australia since it is
still proportionately small in com-
parison with North America.
Its benefits include giving consumers a
wider range of preferences enabling
manufacturers to gain from larger-scale
production and lower costs, a greater
volume of economic effort by workpeople
to buy durable goods, and a greater sense
of pride in homes.
The professor is not a conservative.
Among his recent recommendations were
heavier death-duties and a capital-gains
tax.
After 40 Years
Now on the last lap of its 40 years of
existence in its current form, the Austra-
lian Industries Development Association
has issued what is in effect its programme
for the next 40 years, as it has been in
the past: the soundly based development
of all aspects of the Australian economy.
Its forerunner was the Victorian Pro-
tectionist Association, which in 1918
found itself short .of funds and handi-
capped by its narrow title. Its emergence
as' an Australian organisation was due
to the help given it by Ambrose Pratt,
then editor of the “Industrial Australian”
and a noted advocate of Protection, who
in January, 1919, brought W. A. Watt,
then Acting Prime Minister, to a Mel-
bourne meeting which effected the change.
The association now consists of repre-
sentatives not only of industry but also
of finance and commerce; it has an
Australian - wide organisation, and,
although its strongest support has in the
past been evident in Victoria, where its
central office is situated, it has a strong
executive committee in N.S.W. and plans
to expand it; John McEwan, Deputy-
P.M., will be the guest-speaker in June
at a meeting of members and other
industrialists and commercial men.
The association doesn't conflict with
other societies working for particular
industries but devotes itself primarily to
broader economic issues which affect
industry and commerce generally, pro-
viding a channel of sound experience in
business to assist Governments in build-
ing a framework for national growth.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
/'YUR self-service store run on cash-
and-carry lines is languishing in
spite of many good bargains. Those,
without cars find they can’t carry their
purchases, while many who have cars
can’t afford to pay cash. —“Roger Mike.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ex-ACT”: My 16-year-old god-
daughter confessed to a couple of typist’s
mistakes which were new to me. Her
boss was quite patient when she
referred to an official inspection of the
“Cotter Damn,” but he drew the line
rather sharply when she produced a letter
which had him writing to his Minister
about the Mini s t e r’s “suggestive
amendments.” ,
❖ *> *>
“Kerba”: I’d never be surprised
to hear that an inscription on some
Egyptian tomb had been translated:
“Ahab loves Fatima” or the like;
Johnny’s affection for Lily, and vice
versa, have been publicised throughout
my life, and I had thought the scheme
could never be revised. But evidently one
modern kid is a nonconformist. His
effort, on a wall near Argyle Cut (Sydney),
strikes an original note: “I love me.”
“Rostrum”: At a dinner to Queensland
real-estate agents a v.i.p. of Mackay rose
to speak: “Mackay is an important
centre. Last year the income from sugar
was six-million pounds ...” Another
Mackay v.i.p. got up: “Last year the
income from sugar was six-and-a-half-
million pounds . . Yet another,
in the course of a few* well-chosen words:
“Last year the income from sugar was
seven-million pounds . . .” This routine
pressed a button for a visiting real-estate
man ; his auctioneering instincts came to
“Why don't they dress her?"
the top; he bounded to his feet, waved
his arm, called: “Any advance on seven-
million? Any advance? Going at seven-
million! Gone!”
“A.J.S.”: Perth is to have parktng-
meters, and the traffic-authorities have
been placing the hollow tubular-steel
posts to which the meters will be attached,
in the city streets. A woman driver
pulled-up beside one of the newly-erected
posts, alighted, dropped sixpence down
the tube and, her conscience at rest, pro-
ceeded to her shopping-programme in a
nearby store.
❖ * ❖
“C.L.D.”: At least 90 years ago a
speaking-tube (B. 30/4/’5B) was used
at Goolwa in S.A. by the Good family
to connect the two branches of the firm
on each side of the main street. Goolwa
was then a very busy port, and this
speaking-tube allowed the management
on one side of the road to convey,
unknown to customers, information such
as credit-position . during the street-
crossing. The firm still is a very live
concern but doesn't need this accessory
today.
❖ ❖
“Doynest” : Office presentations can
have their awkward moments (B.
14/5/’58); the effect of cheery, all-round
speeding of the departing fellow-worker
was marred when the girl who had
collected the two-bobs confided to the
recipient: “Strictly between you and me,
Bet, I had the devil’s own job to get it
out of some of the so-and-so’s!” it might
have passed for a pleasantry if the weary
collector hadn’t been so obviously in
earnest
“Kanimbla”: “One-Spur” (B. 7/5/’5B)
has repeated an error made by historians
of standing; Napoleon was never a
corporal, unless, perhaps, in the cadet-
corps of his military college. He entered
the French Army as a lieutenant of
artillery. His nickname was really “The
Little Caporal.” “Caporal” was the title
borne by hereditary mayors of com-
munes in Corsica. The Bonaparte family
belonged to this, the third-highest of the
six social classes in Corsica, and ranked
as noble.
❖ *
“Glen Park”: A concert given by an
R.A.A.F. band for the Old Folks’ Home
was a great success, but there was one
unexpected item of expense. A souvenir-
hunter removed three caps belonging to
the bandsmen and the committee had to
reimburse each to the tune of £3.
HORNPIPE
“Shipowners have agreed to install three
washing-machines in coastal ships for the
crews.”
I’ll sing you a song of the Saucy Jane
Proceeding to Melbourne on the azure
main ;
The clothing of the crew was spotlessly
clean,
It was washed .in the union washing-
machine:
So hey, ho, me heat ties!
Before you go to bed
Put your coloreds and your whites
In the washer of nights,
And they’se guaranteed to come out
Red!
If the red-faced skipper gave his red-
faced crew
A father-and-mother of a talking-to,
He was never coarse, and he was never
obscene ;
For they washed his language in the
washing-machine:
So hey, ho, me hearties!
Whatever may be said,
And whatever may be done
For the un-i-on, *
They'll be guaranteed to take as
Red!
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


IN our emporium a young lady
was very weepy behind the counter
because of the uncertain course of her
love-affairs. Madam Buyer (still a very
attractive lass) remonstrated with her and
for her pains was told, “But you don’t
know yvhat it’s like to be in love!” This
resulted in a straw-blaze and Madam B.
replied, “Just you get this straight, my gal,
I’ve had more love-affairs than you’ve
had hot dinners.” —“Lorna Doone.”
»j» »*♦
“Payo”: All the time and money spent
by the Road Safety Council hasn’t turned-
out a more down-to-earth warning than
our council’s, on top of a hill approach-
ing the town: “Caution: Cemetery
Entrance.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“E.L.G.”: Bohemian Cole (B. 7/5/’5B)
may have worn a wig in 1913, but when
I knew him as a little girl about 1905-6
his hair grew to his shoulders a la
Buffalo Bill, and he used to hairpin it
up in a little knob at the back of his
head during the daytime. My mother
was a friend of his second wife and lead-
ing lady, Vene Linden, and it was my
great treat to go backstage and see the
wonderful caravan in which they lived.
It was divided into bedroom and sitting-
room, and the sitting-room was furnished
as a typical parlor of the early 1900’s:
potplants, vases, bobble-fringed table-
cloths, pictures, comfortable sofas . . .
The earth floor of the huge show-tent
always crackled with peanut-shells, and
about five minutes before the curtain
rose the boys all started stamping and
calling out: “Up with the rag!”
O. N. Wilson: I think I can straighten-
out “ Billtee ” (B. 7/5/’5B) and
“Jasby” (B. 9/4/’5B). Cole’s Bohemian
Dramatic Company began at the turn
of the century and after playing three
years under canvas in Sydney and two
years under canvas in Melbourne played
a six-months’ season in Hobart, first in
the gardens opposite the Domain, then
in the King’s Theatre, in Bathurst Street.
After the Tasmanian season the touring
show moved on, but left “Shrewdie”
Wilson behind to manage the King’s, the
freehold of which had been bought
by King Cole. This theatre operated for
a number of years with pictures, skating,
boxing and what have you. “Shrewdie”
Wilson (so called after one of the
characters he portrayed on the stage)
enlisted in the Tasmanian 40th Battalion,
and on his return from overseas broke
away from the old company and entered
the picture business by buying the Lyric
Theatre, Arncliffe, Sydney. A few years
later he died. The co. carried on and
wintered in Port Adelaide Town Hall in
1916. The “Ginger” referred to by
“Jasby” was King Cole’s son, Frank.
The original action-show went out of
business in 1920, but “Cole’s Players,”
operated by King Cole’s two sons-in-law
-—Bill Ayr and Hector Keliher —carried
on with sophisticated comedy until
talkies in 1930 forced them into musical
production. They toured all States of
Australia as “Cole’s Varieties” until
1950. I should know, because “Shrewdie”
Wilson was my father, and King Cole my
mother’s father.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pip Tok”: “Dolphin’s” escalator
accident (B. 7/5/’5B) reminds me of the
sad story related by an elderly woman in
a Perth department-store. “I always
walk up the steps,” she declared ; “it’s
harder, but it’s safer. The man next-door
to us had a very nasty, accident last week
—he fell and injured himself on the
emasculator.”
❖ ♦> ❖
“L.E.”: Projected alleywards from
window upstairs: “You naughty boy!
Vy don’t you do vot I tell you ven I
tell you not to do it!”
“Imperial 55”: The boss had a shocking
cold and his secretary was bold enough
to ask him why he wasn’t home in bed.
A spasm of rage, frustration and resigna-
tion screwed up his face between trumpet-
blasts of nose into handkerchief. “Cap’t,”
he said mournfully. “Should be. Wife
wouldn’t let me. We’ve got the painters in ;
might upset them to have me in the house,
she thought, and told me I’d be -better-
off at work.”
■ ❖ ❖ ❖
“R.A.H.”: Mt. Mulligan, in North
Queensland, became a ghost-town last
October, when the State coalmine was
closed-down. The following month the
licensee of the town’s only pub surrendered
her licence. Then the town was sold, with
the exception of the hotel. Now the
owners are claiming £12,480 for the build-
ing and the licence, and the licensee, Mrs.
Burchill, is claiming £4468, part of which
is compensation for loss-of-profits.
Apparently ghosts aren’t keen on spirits.
*2* ►> *i*
“Cash Count”: Do all Scots have the
appetite of a yearling elephant? Query
arises from watching our new junior, a
laddie* arrived from Scotland only a
couple of months, tackle his lunch. The
boy is sft. 3in. and light enough to ride
the bottom-weight in a Welter ; but for
lunch he brings a full sandwich-loaf in
its original wrapper, a hunk of butter,
an array of spreads—vegetable-extract,
peanut-butter, cheese and the like—a
piece or two of fruit, a filler, such as
a jar of pickled Onions, and, so help me,
chews his way through every morsel.
It has got so I can’t bear the sight;
I eat my lunch out in the office.
“Warihi”: The Shaw Savill and
Albion Line is celebrating the 100th anni-
versary of its connection with New
Zealand. Robert Ewart Shaw, head of
the freight-department of a London firm
of shipbrokers, pulled out, taking his
chief-assistant, Walter Savill, with him;
they decided to start a direct shipping-
line to N.Z. They chartered the steamer
Lord • Ashley (435 tons ; screw-driven)
and notified the Under-Secretary of State
for Colonies that they were open for
business; the boat would be leaving
about 16 days later, May 28, 1858. In
the meantime the chartered ship Chieftain
sailed for Nelson on May 24. Push and
luck stood to them, and in 1862 they sent
“Why you have the impudence to interrogate a Professor of Anatomy
at a busy street-crossing I FAIL to understand!”


out 45 sailing-ships; and 68 in 1866.
In 1882 the Albion Line took the first
frozen-meat cargo from New Zealand.
Later in the year Shaw Savill and Albion
amalgamated. The original flag of Shaw
Savill is still used ; it was copied from
a flag pushed on to the so-called Maori
Confederation, organised in 1832 about
the Bay of Islands, N.Z., by James Busby,
an agent of the Colony of N.S.W., which
was exercising a species of supervision
over the more-or-less wild Europeans
then livfhg in N.Z. The design of the
flag was a white ground with the red
cross of St. George; the upper left
quarter was blue, with a right-angle cross
in white and a white star in each of the
four quarters thus formed to symbolise
the Southern Cross. Shaw Savill and
Albion had a half-share in the Common-
wealth and Aberdeen Line, which owned
the Jervis Bay at the time of the big
stunt. The company owns 25 ships,
charters nine and is building two more.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sevenelms”: Merle Oberon’s birth in
Tasmania (B. 14/5/’5B) is usually assessed
as a less adroit reincarnation-project of
a Hollywood high-priest of publicity,
probably unconscious that the natives of
a remote “South Sea island” such as the
Speck might read movie-magazines.
Until attaining starlet status about the
time she played a spouse-with-no-future
in “The Private Lives of Henry -VIII”
Miss Oberon was considered to have
been born in Calcutta.
ify
“H.N.”: Sixty-and-under Diggers of
War I vintage are still reasonably plenti-
ful (B. 30/4/’5B). Number One Aus-
tralian General Hospital at Rouen had
50 or 60 war-babies on their strength
“Don't turn the lounge to the sun until the kitchen gets Warmed-up ."
in 1917-18. Their ages ranged from 15
to 18 and they had all been chased back
from infantry battalions up the line.
They rather resented being transferred
to what they thought was a sissy A.M.C.-
unit after having been treated as men up
in the battalions. The oldest soldier
there was a 10th Battalion youngster
who enlisted in 1914 at 14, went through
Gallipoli and soldiered-on till Bullecourt,
when he was transferred. He is still under
60. The other Australian Hospitals at
Abbeville and Boulogne also had their
quota of young Digs, who helped keep
the stretchers moving.
❖ ❖
“Sevenelms”: Deficiency in tramcar
thank-you’s instanced by “Applex”
(B. 16/ 4/’5B) is paralleled by school pro-
ject-material ingratitude. As a timber-
firm with no conceivable goodwill or
advertising-value involved we posted in
response to requests dozens of weighty
parcels, including wood-samples to child-
ren on timber-projects. None was
acknowledged. Thereafter it was our
routine, if any such material went and
there was no thank-you letter, headmaster
of school involved was asked to instruct
pupils in common courtesy. Results were
fine.
❖ ❖ ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: A year or more ago I
mentioned here a Sydney bookshop
calling itself a “Penguin Bar.” I am now
revolted to'discover that the same shop
has become a “Paperbackery.”
EUPHONIOUS FIELDERS
“Paddock bookmakers in Sydney have over
the past few years shown a vast improvement
in their general manners and in particular their
voices; the same cannot yet be said of other
fielders.” —Sports commentator.
If there’s one thing annoys
Paddock short-odds boys
Even more than a well-backed winner ,*
Than to comprehend
At a meeting’s end
That they haven’t .landed one skinner.
It’s to hear in the ring,
As a price they sling,
A voice that’s piercingly raucous,
Like that of a Com.
Holding forth in the Dom.,
■ Or a prominent member of caucus.
When you’ve done your dibs,
don’t describe his Nibs
As a soanso rough-necked vulture—
that’s just prejudice!
For he finds true bliss
In encompassing vocal culture.
He will, it is true,
On the wad that you
Possess, prove a champion pouncer ;
But the odds he’ll quote
In a voice ( you’ll note )
Like that of an ace-announcer.
On the lowly Flat
They use voices that
Would scare any lion, into hiding ;
In the Leger, bods
Still yell the odds
Through chords where the gravel’s
biding.
But the Paddock bloke,
he would rather choke
Than be an English-distorter;
There, colt Silver Tongue
Beats old Leather Lung
To the post by a lengih-and-a-quarter.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


;
you m v£nV hap a
Shavz tAORHiHG
has/g you 7"
h A


POLITICAL POINTS
Ike says America is bursting with
vitality. Let’s hope there’s no blow-out.
• •
Lebanon is to protest to the Security
Council against intervention by Egypt
and Syria. President Chamoun says that
“massive interference” in his country’s
affairs by the Arab Republic (Egypt and
Syria) is designed to create “a radical
alteration of our national policy.” For-
ward with your veto, Mr. K.
• •
“Go North, young man, and pay low
taxes” may be the new motto of the
Federal Government. But will the induce-
ment be enough to persuade sufficient
young women to accompany the young
men in populating and developing what
Mr. Menzies called, without much
originality, “the vast potential of the
remote northern areas”?
• •
J. G. Crawford, secretary of the
Department of Trade, and R. J. Randall,
assistant-secretary to the Treasury, will
lead the Australian delegation to a con-
ference of all Commonwealth countries
in London next month. The purpose of
the talks is to prepare an agenda for the
Commonwealth Trade and Economic
Conference to be held in Canada in
September. It is expected that Minister
for Trade McEwen and Treasurer Fadden
will attend the Canadian conference,
which will discuss measures to extend
trade between Commonwealth countries
and to assist the economic expansion of
less developed areas of the Common-
wealth ; it will also study the implica-
tions of the European Common Market
and proposed free-trade area.
If Artie Fadden attends, it will pro-
bably be his swan-song as Treasurer. He
will have brought-down his last Budget
shortly before leaving for Canada and he
has already said that he will resign the
portfolio before the election, now
expected for December.
• •
3. A. Premier Playford has been visit-
ing Brisbane, and Queenslanders have
been surprised to find that in addition to
the job of Premier he is also in charge of
his State’s Treasury, Immigration and
Tourist Departments and is the nearest
approach S.A. has to a Minister for
Housing. South Australia has never
believed in big Cabinets. Until a few
years ago it got along with six Ministers ;
now it has eight. There are 11 in the
Queensland team, Victoria has 13 and
N. S. Wales 16.
Sydney’s Lord Mayor Jensen is reported
from London to have said that Sydney’s
liquor laws are ridiculous and to have
been greatly impressed by the fact that in
many European countries people can buy
a drink “when and where they like.” Hell
no doubt report this to the N. S. Wales
caucus when he gets back. But has he
also noticed that in many parts of
Europe not only drink-shops, but also
food-shops, have virtually unrestricted
hours? And will he tell his colleagues
(including Alderman O’Dea of the Shop
Assistants’ Union) that the law which
prosecutes the corner-shop for after-hours
trading is ridiculous?, /
• •
Most damaging declaration to date in
the Victorian election has been the
announcement by Phil Connell, A.L.P.
member for rural Evelyn, as chairman
of the State Development Committee,
permitting Saw-millers to cut timber in the
buffer-areas to water-catchments. Connell
made his announcement in opening his
election campaign, but the Government
smartly made it clear that no cutting
which imperilled the purity of Mel-
bourne’s water-supply would be allowed.
There are a lot of saw-millers and
employees and votes in Evelyn, once a
true-blue Liberal seat, but the saw-
millers’ complaint that they’ll be squeezed
out of business if they can’t cut in the
buffer-areas has been negatived by their
evidence before the Tariff Board last
year that the reduced demand for timber
is due to imports.
• •
A firm of wine-consultants has been
established in Sydney. It shouldn’t have
any difficulty in finding a motto: In vino
veritas.
• •
Drysdale’s Tasmanian lottery, open
since March last year with an advertised
first-prize of Hadley’s Hotel (nominal
value £250,000) plus £lO,OOO in cash, has
had to announce that it can’t deliver the
goods. The pub. has been withdrawn and
the lottery will now be drawn on June
18 with a first-prize of £BO,OOO. The pro-
moters attribute their inability to fill
the lottery to the mainland ban on
advertisements for “foreign” lotteries.
The ban didn’t prevent Tatt.’s from
operating at a profit for more than half-
a-century. The real snag has been the
competition of Government-owned or
-licensed lotteries in all States except S.A.,
culminating in Cahill’s specials,
mammoths, jackpots and Opera House
gambles. Geo. Adams didn’t have that
sort of competition.
• •
Another voice has been raised in warn-
ing of the ultimate effects of the drift to
the cities—-that of the Chief Justice of
Tasmania, Sir Stanley Burbury. The
C.J. told a meeting of farmers, grazier*
and orchardists at Ross that although
Australia is on the threshold of almost
unlimited land-development it would be
of small significance unless more and
more young people were prepared to take-
up farming. He added that farmers today
had bigger and better agricultural
machinery, more and better scientific aids
to agriculture—and bigger and better
income-taxes and death-duties.
• •
“Air Lift”: Berlin is the perfect
example of a city divided. Even the phone
systems are separate, and anyone in West
Berlin wishing to call the East (Com-
munist) sector has to use a 600-mile
roundabout circuit through Frankfurt
and Leipzig because there is no direct
West-East connection. Berlin has two
currencies, two police - forces, two
gas- and power-plants, two canal-systems
and two airports. West Berlin is still the
goal of tens of thousands of refugees.
More than a million crossed between
1949 and 1956, and nine-tenths of them
were then flown out to West Ger-
many, of Which the nearest point is 100
miles away. According to an official
West German publication, West Berlin is
not only “an island in the Red sea,” but
also the great show-window of the West
inside the Soviet domain. Berliners, hav-
ing weathered the hard post-war years,
are still hopeful their city will again
become the capital of a united Germany.
It is still difficult to envisage when that
day w-ill arrive.
• •
A committee of country members of
the N. S. Wales Liberal party has been
doing some research on the Cahill
Government’s claim to have worked for
decentralisation of industry. In 1955-56,
the latest year for which figures are avail-
able, 16,210 of the State’s 21,602 fac-
tories were in the Sydney-Newcastle-
Wollongong region. These factories
accounted for 90 per cent, of the State’s
factory employees.
In the decade 1947-57 Sydney’s popu-
lation rose by one-fifth, but in the same
period only 42 out of 115 shires sur-
passed that increase. Of the remainder,
26 rose by less than one-fifth, 27 were
stationary and 20 declined in population.
• •
Malcolm Mclntosh, S.A. Minister for
Works and Marine, who resigned his
portfolio for health reasons last week,
has been in Parliament for 37 years and
in Cabinet for 28. He was in charge of
Public Works and Education from 1927
to 1930 ; Crown Lands, Repatriation,
Irrigation and Afforestation from 1933
to 1938. For the last 20 years he has
looked after Works and Marine and for
most of that period he was also
responsible for Railways and Local
Government.
• •
On Thursday the Full Court decided
not to intervene “at this stage” in the
Hursey case in which Frank Hursey is
suing the Waterside Workers Federation
and its Hobart officials for allegedly
preventing him from working on the
wharves because he refuses to pay a levy l
of 10s. to A.L.P. funds. Hursey’s son
Dennis has also taken out a writ against
the federation on similar grounds.


M. Pflimlin probably wishes he had
Julius Caesar at hand to divide de Gaulle
into three parts.
• •
Victoria goes to the polls on Saturday
with the Bolte Government .asking for a
mandate to carry on the good work of the
past three years. State of parties at
present is L.-CiP., 34 ; C.P-., 10; A.L.P.,
21 ; D.L.P., 1. Bolte needs to retain all
his seats if he is to hold his slight overall
majority. He could increase it; redis-
tribution since the last election is thought
to have pushed a couple more seats his
way.
if he loses seats, but not enough to give
the A.L.P. a clear majority, three alterna-
tives are possible—a coalition between
L.-C.P. and C.P.; an L.-C.P. Government
with support from the C.P.; a C.P.
Government with support from the A.L.P.
(as in Dunstan’s day).
With the D.L.P. still a force to be
reckoned with —the party is running 60
candidates—a Labor majority seems out
of the question. Shepherd’s men are
claiming that large numbers of D.L.P.
supporters have swung back to the A.L.P.
and that many of those who haven’t will
give Labor their second preferences.
Saturday will show whether this is wishful
thinking.
• •
It’s election-season overseas at the
moment, too.- Japan and Greece held
general elections last week ; Italy is now
in the throes of voting.
In Japan the Kishi Government
retained office with a slight loss of seats.
It will have 287 seats in the new Parlia-
ment compared with 290 in the old. The
Socialist party won 166 seats, an improve-
ment of 8. The Communists ran 114
candidates ; one was elected.
The Corns, did much better than that in
the Greek election. They increased their
strength from 17 seats to 79, mainly at
the expense of the Liberal party, and will
be the official Opposition in the next
Parliament. The National Radicals, led
by Premier Karamanlis, retained its sub-
stantial majority, gaining three extra
seats and finishing with 172 in a House of
300.
• •
In response to representations made by
the New Zealand dairying industry
Britain is taking action to reduce its
imports of European butter. Sweden
and Finland have been asked to reduce
their exports or to stop subsidising them ;
imports of Polish butter have been
limited; open for Eastern
Europe have been withdrawn and Eire
has been asked to discuss her exports to
the United Kingdom.
N. Prime Minister Walter Nash
doesn’t seem greatly impressed, but that
may just be his brand of diplomacy.
• •
Victoria has cracked-down on the
trapping of native birds with a proclama-
tion prohibiting the use of nets, a
European practice which has become
widespread since migrants introduced it
and were copied by Australians. Accord-
fcng fo Alfred Butcher, who directs the
Fisheries and Game Department, live
decoys have been used to attract birds —•
and live birds have had swivels and safety-
pins attached to them.
There’s not much doubt that the
practice is widespread in Victoria ; it is
to that State that the great majority of
imported nets are consigned.
• : •
As counting progressed in the Flinders
(Q.) by-election W. H. Lonergan (C.P.)
steadily increased his lead over Frank
Forde (A.L.P.). At the weekend the
figures were: Lonergan, 1854; Forde,
1415 ; Katter (Q.L.P.), 756.
• •
James Reston, chief Washington corres-
pondent of the New York “Times,” warns
that on a trip to California and the Middle
West heard “more isolationist talk than
at any time since the war.” He ascribes
it to a new mood critical of U S. inter-
national policy and conditioned by the
current recession and the wave of anti-
American demonstrations in recent weeks.
This being an election-year in America,
the Administration will be watching the
trend with much anxiety. So, for that
matter, will all the Governments of the
Western world.
• •
Latest adherent of the protagonists of
multi-story flats to stop the sprawl of
Melbourne is probably the most impor-
tant —Horace .Petty, Minister for Hous-
ing. Electioneering in toney Toorak,
Petty said it now cost £50;000 an acre to
buy, clear and rehabilitate slums, but only
four or five detached houses could be
put on the acre. This would make the
land in an industrial or near-industrial
area cost £lO,OOO a house,
• •
“E. & 0.E.”: Menzies’ warning against
the constant demand by the States for
money was timely ; but it is not only in
that respect that they suffer the obsession
that money alone can achieve anything.
In everything that is being done, or even
in prospect, in building, roads or what-
have-you, it is the amount of money to
be spent that is emphasised, never what
it is hoped to achieve by this means. It
reminds me of Hollywood in the palmy
days when how many millions of dollars
a picture cost to make was the only
criterion of excellence. Yet even Holly-
wood has now discovered—the hard way
—that spending millions does not
necessarily make a good picture.
Neither does it make a good hospital, a
good road or a good school.
• •
Melbourne Compiunist press gleefully
announces a unity-ticket of Reds and
A.L.P. to defeat "the Groupers” in the
watersiders’ July elections ; but Tripovich,
A.L.P. secretary in Victoria, says he
can’t be expected to take disciplinary
action on stories in the Red press—a
bland evasion. The growing power of
the Communists at the Melbourne Trades
Hall Council meetings becomes more
apparent each month. Once they were
quickly shut-up, but now, when one of
them moves the suspension of standing
orders for a Communist harangue, there
is a rush from A.L.P. satellites to support
him.
• ' •
According to Frank Galbally, a lead-
ing, younger Melbourne barrister, some
J.P.s are not fit to keep a seat warm,
haven’t a clue about the law, are stone-
deaf or have been put there to represent
the police adequately.
Clearly he was referring,to some recent
startling deoisions by J.P.s in Melbourne
suburban courts, at which no hair was
visibly raised. Galbally’s comments fell
flat, too. It’s a poor season for civil
'liberty in Australia. Officials have copped
the lot.
I
• •
“Zeta”: With Queensland likely to see
Australia’s first nuclear-power station
it’s interesting to learn that Britain, first
nation to operate such a station on a
commercial scale, expects to capture and
hold a large share of the world’s grow-
ing market for these gadgets. Between
now and 1975 Britain hopes to sell £ 1379-
million-worth (sterling) of nuclear-power
plant abroad, including some to North
America. From eight to ten power-
stations may be ordered before 1960,
mostly for Europe, and Britain is
regarded as the most likely source of
supply.
TASMANIAN TIGER


PERSONAL ITEMS
A nice touch of coincidence, Sir
Charles Lloyd Jones’s 80th birthday today
(May 28) in the midst of the celebrating
of the David Jones’ firm's 120th, with
the very best this page can wish him
for many more of both of them.
• •
Sighted in Melbourne, General Sir
Francis Festing, C.I.G.S. designate, and
six-foot-four in his socks.
Francis Wogan Festing, born in Dublin
56 years ago, followed his father to Win-
chester and Sandhurst and joined the
Rifle Brigade in 1921. He also followed
his father and grandfather in becoming a
general—in 1942, when he took command
of the 36th Division in Burma. As usual,
he spent as much time as he could up at
“the sharp end,” but there’s more to him
than just being “the best section-leader in
his division.” When General Franky was
about, ordinary soldiers were encouraged,
not frustrated. The Nips didn't like him
either—or that big ash-stick he always
carried.
• •
Clifford Love, best known in Sydney
outside business hours as a yachtsman,
has been sailing boats all his life, start-
BUSINESS AND YACHTS
ing in an 18-footer as an eight-year-old.
He is head of the 96-year-old family
business, Clifford Love and which
was launched by his grandfather.
Interviewed while Dubois drew the
accompanying sketch of him, he men-
tioned that he was starting an advertising
campaign. Asked how it was going, he
summed-up: “Difficult to tell. It’s like
winking at a girl in the dark. You know
you have winked, but you don’t know
what the result is.”
• •
Just back from a conference at Pitts-
burgh (U.S.A.) of the bosses of H. J.
Heinz Co. representing Britain, Canada
and the U.S., John Alexander Watson
Ross, a Scot who began as a salesman
with the British Heinz company, came to
Australia as sales-director and for the
past few years has been managing-
director. Australia, he says, is riding-
out the effects of the U.S. recession
better than any other country, and he has
returned to the company’s plant at
Dandenong, just outside Melbourne, ,
confident that Australia is the place to
start a business.
Heinz was one of the first factories
to move out of Melbourne to Dande-
nong, whither General Motors and others
followed. With that as his working
address Ross is able to live at the near-
by, as yet underpopulated, seaside resort,
Frankston ; but the way things are going
elsewhere he reckons he’s lucky to be.in
Australia anyway.
• •
R. D. Williamson, assistant-superin-
tendent at the Maryvale (Vic.) pulp- and
paper-mill of Australian Paper Manu-
facturers, Ltd., has won the Insignia
Award in Technology of the City and
Guilds of London Institute. He’s the
first Australian to win this award.
• •
“C.R.”: Known with Digger respect
everywhere in Westralia's R.S.L. as “Old
Bill,” Colonel William Owen Mansbridge
has passed on, at 86. at the Hollywood (W.A.)
Repat. Hospital. A foundation-member, first
president, and latterly life-member of the State
branch of the League, he hailed originally from
Cheshire (born in Chester Castle, depot of the
Cheshire Regiment); came to Australia with
his family as a lad of 14; and subsequently,
with the 16th Battalion on Gallipoli, rose to
major and won a D.S.O. before being invalided
home. He then formed the 44th Battalion,
was its first C. 0., took it to France, and was
badly gassed at Messines. In W.A. civvy life -
he was a mining-registrar and clerk-of-courts
at Coolgardie and other centres on the gold-
fields, and stipendiary magistrate at Broome.
He led the first Anzac march in Perth in 1916;
was for many years on the State R.S.L.
Executive; and after retirement, till a few years
ago. continued to sit on the bench of Perth
Police Court as an honorary J.P.
• •
When Don McDonald and Dave
Waldock, of Donald Patents, Ltd., were
in The Bulletin office the other day
someone suggested having them both
drawn for this page ; but as time was
running short it was only possible to have
Don sketched, to Dave’s obvious relief.
Donald Patents, which lately celebrated
its 50th anniversary in Australia —the
business was started in New Zealand in
1872- —is run by a three-man board, of
which Don and Dave are full-time
members.
Don, the sales-manager, is one of the
best-known men in the wool game, his
work taking him around the country a
good deal. Dave, as production-manager,
is more a backroom boy, concerned with
turning out the woolpresses and wire-
strainers for Don to sell; the Donald
KNOWN IN THE WOOL GAME
wirestrainers, incidentally, go as far
afield as England, Honolulu, France,
Kenya, India and Pakistan.
Dave Waldock (42) started his appren-
ticeship in Sydney in 1927, and joined
Donald Patents in 1945. During the
war he had a man-sized job running a
precision-engineering shop, doing defence
work with inductee labor. Don
McDonald is a 40-year-old Queenslander
who joined the A.I.F. in 1939, was with
the 2/9th Battation first, then with the
2/Ist M.G. Battalion, and was a ser-
geant when wounded and captured in
Greece. He joined Donald Patents in
1950. Don has a theory about p.-0.-w.
experience which is thought-provoking.
He reckons the need to adapt oneself to
tough conditions then makes for self-
confidence now. in the less spectacular
struggle of ordinary life.
• •
- Ralph Field, managing-director of
Sydney’s Trocadero and formerly on the
Svdney “Sun.” has been elected chairman
of the N.S.W. division of the Chartered
Institute of Secretaries.
• •
The £lOO E. T. Cato art prize was
awarded by the judge this year, Alan
Warren, Melbourne “Sun” art critic, to
an old-hand and a newcomer. The prize
must be divided into two —for a water-
■color and an oil. R. Malcolm Warner,
one of Melbourne’s best-known commer-
cial artists and president of the Victorian
Artists’ Society for many years, won the
watercolor with “Tropical Storm, Queens-
land”; Roy Bizley, who came here from


England only a couple of years back and
is an art teacher at Royal Melbourne
Technical College, won the oil division
with a colorful street scene.
• •
“Uramao”: The death of Ewen
Cameron at Oamaru (N.Z.) has revived
a discussion of some 20 years back as
to the last Anjac to leave Gallipoli. Then
a sergeant in the 12th Squadron Otago
Mounted Rifles, Cameron was one of the
crew of the last boat under Lieut. E. R.
Black to push-off for the tug lying off-
shore, Cameron giving the boat the final
push before jumping in. An Australian
claim was that the last man was one of
the boatload of the Australian Casualty
Clearing Station under Captain Littler.
They had been addressed the day before-
the evacuation by Sir Neville Howse,
who instructed them to remain, collect
the wounded, and surrender to the Turks.
Instead, they left and reached the lighter
in safety aboard Captain Staveley’s
steamboat; Staveley was the last man to
leave.
• •
Herewith Alfred Martin Harris, author
of The Tall Man, a novel set in Korea
which has been favorably reviewed in
The Bulletin. Harris, whose friends call
him “Jack,” was born at Mildura (Vic.)
32 years ago and for the past four years
has lived in Sydney, on the East Hills
line. After serving in Japan for five
years he went to Korea with the 3rd
Battalion, was wounded, and when he
came back to Australia did one of the
Army’s streamlined courses, in Chinese.
Back in Korea in 1953 his work was of
the hazardous kind which forms the
background of his novel. He collected
an M.M. on that second trip to Korea,
FIGHT AND FICTION
and an option for film-rights has been
taken on the book, which is published
by Cassells. Harris has also written some
very good short-stories for The Bulletin.
“S”: Joseph Leask, who lately passed
on at Wandin North, near Melbourne,
was the first naval ship-constructor for
the Royal Australian Navy. In War 11 he
designed 60 minesweepers for the R.A.N.,
in addition to a number of harbor-defence
vessels, and in the earlier world war was
responsible for fitting-out troopships and
horse-carrying ships for the A.1.F., He
had been brought here from Scotland
by the Australian Government in 1911
for the Navy Department, retiring in 1945.
Naturally interested in yachting, he was
official measurer for the Victorian Yacht
Racing Association and commodore of
the Royal Brighton Clpb.
• •
Professor of Mechanical* Engineering
at the Westralian University for the
next seven years, David Alien-Williams
is a Cambridge graduate, and was at
one time in charge of the mechanical side
of its 30-million-volt atom-smasher.
Officially called an electron synchrotron,
the Cambridge atom-smasher is used in
the treatment of deep-seated cancer, and
is similar to the one at the National Uni-
versity, Canberra. The Westralian post,
a newly created one, will bring the
prof.,into contact with Westralia’s cancer-
fighting linea-accelerator, which is also
similar to the electron synchrotron.
\ '
• •
“M.”: Re Sydney Fremantle (B.
14/5/’5B), his first name derives from
the N.S.W. capital, where his parents
were married in the 1860’s. His father
was Admiral Sir Edmund Fremantle ; his
mother the daughter of barrister Robert
Macintosh Isaacs (Solicitor-General in
the Martin Ministry) and sister of magis-
trate Frank Isaacs. There are a number
of Australian cousins.
• •
Home again after three years in Brazil,
Perth engineer Arthur Hardwicke has
seen many countries since he started
work as a cadet engineer in the W.A.
Public Works Department and took his
B.Eng. degree at the Westralian Uni-
versity. He went to England on a travell-
ing-scholarship, spent five years in Russia
as a consulting engineer, arid came back
with a Russian bride. Always on the
go in connection with his work, he spent
of seven years without stay-
ing more than six months in any one
country. As a concrete specialist he is
now able to take an interest in the build-
ing of the bridge across the Swan River
Narrows.
• •
Australian employer s’ delegate
to the International Labor Organisation
in Geneva, Charles Robert Bunning,
former president of the Westralian
Employers’ Federation, gained his
experience growing - up in W.A.’s
oldest timber-firm. Founded by his
father and uncle, the firm now controls
300,000 acres of forest country. At
school an all-round athlete, cricketer and
footballer, Bunning reinforced practice
with theory at the outset of his working
career by taking a Bachelor of Engineer-
ing degree at Melbourne.
lan E. Thomas (herewith) has links
with two of South Australia’s oldest
and biggest industries —wool and wine.
WOOL AND WINE
Assistant general-manager for S.A. of
Elder Smith and Co., Ltd., Australia’s
biggest wool brokers, and chairman of
directors of Walter Reynell and Sons,
winemakers, he educated at St.
Peter’s College, collected a diploma in
agriculture, then went jackerooing for a
couple of years before joining Elders in
1926.
His great-grandfather, John Reynell,
planted vines soon after landing in S.A.
in 1838, when that State was a two-
year-old colony. Elders was founded the
following year.
• •
Into the Silence:
Al Mount Gambier (S.A.), at 68, Donald A.
Roberts (“Honest Don"). Born at Hindmarsh
(S.A.), he went to Darwin as a lawyer in 1912
and in 1921 became Supreme Court judge.
Since 1928 he had been in private practice at
Mount Gambier and when he died was in
partnership with R. F. Brown.
In Melbourne, at 46, John Fenwick Crosby,
director and secretary of William Crosby
Holdings, Ltd., and associate companies.
Iri Sydney, at 69. Ernest Pass, for many
years Federal music-librarian for the A.B.C.
In Ulladulla (N.S.W.), at 83, E. C. Bluett,
who was for 30 years secretary of the Local
Government Clerks’ Association.
In Perth, at 92, Sir John Alfred Northmore
former Chief Justice and Administrator of
Westralia. Born in South Australia, he was
admitted to the Bar there in 1888, and to
practice in Westralia in 1896. Raised to the
Supreme Court Bench in 1914; Chief Justice
in 1931; K.C.M.G. in 1932, when for a few
months he acted as Lieutenant-Governor. A
member of the Westralian University Senate
from 1930 to 1936, and a keen sportsman on
land and water.


ABORIGINALITIES
6 6TN Australia,” I said to my N.Z.
acquaintance of five minutes, “there
is a strange animal called the ” I
never finished the sentence. “Duck-billed
platypus! Duck-billed platypus! Con-
found the duck-billed platypus!” he said
bitterly.
Then he told me.
He had been on a flying business-trip
to the Burnie paper-mills in Tasmania
and had also arranged to spend some
convivial hours with friends there. But
an executive of the concern, learning
that he was from New Zealand, said,
“I’ll show you the river where we get
our water from. With a bit of luck
you’ll be able to see some duck-billed
platypuses.” So they went to the river,
and after quite a long wait he saw one.
On his- return to the mill he was
passed on to another executive who, after
a few minutes’ conversation, said, “I’ll
show you the Emu River, where we get
our water from. It’s about feeding-time
for the duck-billed platypuses, and you
can have a look at them.” Not caring
to dampen the other’s enthusiasm, he
went along.
He saw duck-billed platypuses four
more times that day. The next day, that
of his departure, he called on a friend
he had met previously in New Zealand.
They, went to see the duck-billed platypus.
He called on another. This time the
whole family accompanied him to the
Emu River to see the duck-billed
platypus.
Time was now running short, but he
held high hopes of a third friend, who
was waiting at the ghte for him',
anxiously looking at his watch. “Gee,
I'm glad to see you,” was his opening
remark. “I’m sorry you’re late —I’d
planned a real good spree. But I can’t
let you go back to New Zealand without
seeing something really unique—our
duck-billed platypus. There’s some of
them oyer in the Emu River. Let’s go!”
“And that,” said my acquaintance
darkly, “is why I don’t want to hear any
more about the
“Duck-billed platypus,” I said to save
him choking on the words.
M.S.N.
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: The brotherhood of
broad-axe men protest truculently about
the Canberra flagpole (B. 30/4/’5B). Its
elegant taper stemmed from no vulgar
“mill,” but from the honest craft of
axeman and shipwright. The round
stick was chalk-lined and-broad-axed to
die-square (no wane) with a planned
taper. This square was next chalk-lined
by the who took it to octagon
and then similarly to a 16-sider. Its last
marking was for a 32-sider. Draw-knives,
planes and sandpaper took it from there
to round-finish. This 118 ft. spar was
“ That's all very well—but what about my stick?”
logged from a saucer-lik'' depressio
near Lake Nimpkish, whence it had sho
up abnormally to compete with other fir
on the rim ; approximate age—llo years
* * *
‘*Sebak”: The fishing was very tame
even the solitary shag seemed to b
finding things dull. Suddenly he sparkec
up, dived, surfaced and gulped his catch
Again he dived, and again. He emittec
no excited cry to let his cobbers know
he d got among ’em, yet within second
dozens of shags were on the spot, divin
and gulping in frantic, greedy haste
Soon there were hundreds of them, twist
ing and writhing around one another
an area less than 20yds. square. Fo
a mad minute the slaughter lasted
then the swift fury abated to a spasmodic
picking-up of stragglers. Some of the
shags flew away ; but many formed into
strange, single-file lines, submerged so
that only thp long neck and head stooc
out of the water. They sailed slowly
along as though their feet had been
fastened to water-logged planks. Here
and there, haphazardly, a head struck
downwards and rose again as quickly
giving the ridiculous impression ol
piano-hammers responding to a pianist’s
touch. And so they gradually sailed oni
of sight—five “boards” of ’em, each file
keeping in line and maintaining close
even space. Just another one of those
surprises that birds spring on humans
who think they know a bit about bird-
behavior.
* * * *
“Manamoi”: Production and proces-
sing of pet-food is an expanding industry.
Australia supplies much of the food for
England’s four-million dogs, over five-
million cats and countless" other pets.
Drovers in the far-west of N.S.W. have
been rounding-up wild goats and railing
them to Adelaide for “processing,” and
now an attempt is Jpeing made to find
a similar market for kangaroo-meat.
And when the ’roos and goats run out
there’ll still be those pestiferous wild
camels, brumbies and donkeys. Local
consumers, incidentally, include chickens
and crayfish (bait).
* * * *
“Alex”j The fashion-pages occasion-
ally mention suits and coats with “collars
of Australian possum-fur.” At the
request of Jimmy Possum, an old friend
of the family who is a house-guest in our
garage-roof, I asked the wildlife-protec-
tion people about it, and was told that
permits are issued for the destruction of
possums “where their numbers are such
that they become a nuisance.” What
Jimmy and I both want to know is
how many permits a year are issued,
how many skins are exported and how
many extra possums are destroyed
illegally under cover of these permits?
* * * *
“Ikew”: Before taking the truck out
at night it’s routine with us to make sure
no bantams are roosting on the chassis.
This time we didn’t think of it until we


Make your
CARAPARK HOLIDAY
on the Gold Coast!
next holiday a
BOOK NOW!
Phone:
Surfers Paradise
X 3033
NOW OPEN!
YOUR Park Site
YOUR Hire Caravan
YOUR Sleeper Unit
YOUR New Carapark
Caravan
LIBERAL TRADE-INS ACCEPTED
EASY TERMS AVAILABLE
PRIORITY BOOKINGS FOR SHAREHOLDERS
NOW!
Issue at Par of 446,000 shares of 5/- each
at par, payable 2/6 per share on applica-
tion and 2/6 per share on 31st August,
1958.
GARAPARK
MOTELS LTD.
MERMAID BEACH - GOLD COAST
QUEENSLAND
OPEN-Closes June 4
TTie Prospectus States:
"Dividends of not less than
10%
per annum
can be confidently antici-
pated"
Underwriting Brokers:
CORRIE & CO.
(Members of the Brisbane Stock
Exchange)
CUT OUT AND POST
The Secretary,
CARAPARK MOTELS, LTD.,
Pacific Highway, Mermaid Beach,
South Coast, Queensland
PLEASE PRINT
Dear Sir, 1
Please post me a copy of the Prospectus of an issue at par of 446,000
shares of 5/- each by Carapark Motels Ltd.
Yours faithfully,


“This is the last for you , love — you've had enough."
were back at the camp and a check of
the flock showed that Furry-feet whs
missing. Mutual recriminations over,
we looked under the truck and there she
was, blinking sleepily in the torch-beam.
We had bashed over some five miles of
rough bush-track apd through even
rougher watercourses, without disturbing
her.
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: A peewee —a regular
visitor—and the sulphur-crested cockatoo
from next door often forage on my lawn
in friendly concert, both of them sitting-
shots as cats’ breakfasts as they move
about, heads down and sterns up. Next-
door’s cat, noted for its hunting ability,
makes no attempt to have a' crack at
his fellow-lodger, the cocky, which is
understandable ; what is not is that he
also regards the peewee as sacrosanct.
Perhaps he just doesn't want to break-up
a beautiful friendship.
♦ * * *
“Pip Tok”: Latest addihon to Perth
Museum is a small, short-necked tortoise,
found by Museum Director Dr. W. D. L.
Ride and naturalist Harry Butler in the
Bullsbrook area of Westralia. Said to
be the rarest type in the world, it is the
fourth to be found in those parts. The
first specimen known to science was
foUnd in 1839, and is now preserved in
the Vienna Museum.- The latest specimen
was found in a burrow which it had
apparently dug for itself.
•'* * m
“Milano”: As well as the gallant Tttle
Paddy, there was at least one other tyke
on Gallipoli (B. 23/4/’5B). It was a
cattle-dog, the property of Captain U. E.
Parry-Okeden, of the ammunition
column, who lived in a tiny dugout along
the track up which the initial charge
took place—along the ridge rising steeply
from Ari Burnu to Plugge’s Plateau
(305 ft. high). The captain, who, I think,
was an uncle of Lieut.-Colonel Bill Parry-
Okeden, of the A.J.C., was a Queens-
lander, and the dog had the job of
guarding the dugout when his master was
at the stacks of artillery ammunition on
the beach at the north end of Anzac Cove
Their afternoon walk together was always
interesting. I had the impression that
the dog was evacuated with his master at
the end. Whether the notable pair of
bulldogs taken from New Zealand in the
second convoy by Major Statham, of the
Otago Battalion, ever reached Anzac is a
moot point. Their master fell on “971”
on August 9, 1915, in the last phase of the
vain struggle for the supreme height.
Australians will remember the Kiwis
route-marching at Albany with the dogs
leading while they (the Australians) were
not allowed on shore.
“Myall”: Dalby, on Queensland’s
Darling Downs, is (so far as I know) the
first town in Australia to have a white
fire-engine instead of the usual red.
It is claimed—and th's seems reason-
able —that it will be more easily seen at
night.
“Yes, it could be a bit smaller."
BORER BEETLE
What an infinitesimal amount of
water you represent, borer. You’re so
dry your brittle body’s almost
moistureless and smudge of your death
is a
dust one can puff away. When you
fly a blunt wooden bud suddenly
flowers, breaks open and weed-petal
wings
whirr and lift you blurrily
into the air; but you don’t fly
any particular where —a click
and you are down on this page. If
I touch you gently you immediately
become a
legless pellet dead as dead can be. Chance
may
possibly bring a partner, a mate, your
way. But wait! . . .
if you’re such a mechanical little
splinter of being one would expect
something in the nature of rigid, wooden
fate to rule what happens to you. But
fate controls *
shape, size, manner of ingress and egress
only and
beyond that point little beetle-wills
fail and your life as a life is completely at
the
mercy of a law that , is lawless, namely
Accident. Calamity, disaster, in the shape
of
my forefinger smudging you out is as
haphazard a happening as a boot coming
down on you, for you might havp fallen
on the floor by my chair where
you would not have been seen, which
suggests there’s
nothing in store for you one might call
fate and no design riding externally at all
in your state.
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.


A NIMALS have “homed” over long
distances in fact as well as in senti-
mental fiction.’ Perhaps the best-known
case in history was that of a cow belong-
ing to James VI of Scotland. When her
master ascended the English throne she
was taken to London ? but liked it not and
returned to her native Fife, even (as his
Majesty remarked with surprise) passing
uninterrupted through the Debatable
Lands, notorious haunt of reivers and
freebooters.
On her way the cow may have passed
the Lakeland Dales, then as now the only
home of the grey Herdwick sheep. These,
unlike most other breeds of sheep, show
such determination about returning to
their birthplace that a farm-flock is
usually the property not of the tenant,
but of the landlord, and is transferred
with the tenancy of the farm.
An Australian performance rivalling
that of the cow was put up many-years
ago by a horse. As one of a large mob
it was sent from Bukkulla station, north
of Inverell (N.S.W.), to a property near
Maitland. When the unbroken youngsters
were drafted off to be broken-in, one of
them jumped out of the yard. With few
fences to stop him, he headed north along
the main road. A few days later, the
groom on 300-miles-distant Bukkulla,
while looking for the milkers, found the
horse grazing quietly in his old haunts.
MANAMOI.
“Muldoon”: Two of the best grass-
fighters in the town had* clashed in a
quickly broken-up scrimmage at the
change of shifts on the mine. Both
agreed to fight it -out on the racecourse
next Sunday, but a smarty in town at the
time talked the combatants into fighting
in the ring under his promotion. Interest
ran high, a bumper house was assured,
but in the crush to get into the make-
shift stadium the gates gave way and
many poured in without paying. In am
address from the ring the smarty gave
a rough outline of his expenses and the
commitments he had to meet, and
appealed to the sportsmanship of the
gatecrashers, most of whom went back
and paid. By the end of the main bout
the promoter could not be found —he
had quietly slipped town with the takings
and paid nobody, not even his fighters.
NORAHVILLE (N.S.W.)
TF all local authorities of the Norahville-
Toukley (N.S.W.) area agree that
Edward Hammond Hargreaves pioneered
the district, named the locality Norah-
ville and the cape Norah Head (B.
9/4/’5B), then they are dead wrong on
all counts. The pioneer settler was John
Slade, who came to Australia in 1827
and the following year selected 640 acres
which he named “Pudgeway„” facing
Budgewoi and Munmorah Lakes. By the
census of March, 1829, he was employing
one free- and two bond-servants, had
cleared two acres and had 30 horned
cattle.
The area bad been “promised” to
Slade, but no grant was made to him.
Instead, Robert Henderson, first district
“you forgot the key!”
constable -of Brisbane Water (and great-
grandfather of Rupert, of “S.M. Herald”),
was given the grant in August, 1841 —-
he had been occupying the land for
some years. He renamed it “Budge-
away.” He also had 50 acres near
Bungaree Norah, and 25 acres more-or-
less in the “Village of Norah.” Hender-
son had a dairy, in charge of a man
named John Freeman, and from which
he supplied meat, butter, milk and cheese
to the settlement at Gosford. It is
recorded that, in 1832, Surveyor Ralfe
and his men had pulled their boats to
Bungaree Norah and called at Hender-
son’s dairyfarm for flour and beef for
all hands.
In July, 1835, four bushrangers called
at the dairy and demanded butter and
milk and the dairyman’s black hat before
heading northward. Incidentally, it
transpired that they had been wrecked
at the entrance to Broken Bay and their
hats had been lost. By the 1841 census
there were six persons living in Free-
man’s house at Cabbage Tree.
Hargreaves was cattle-dealing while
living at Gosford in the early 1840’s and
bought cattle from Henderson. In 1849,
just before going to California, he told
Henderson, “Next time I come it will not
be to buy your cattle but your land.”
in 1853 he bought 75 acres before going
to England to be presented to Queen
Victoria. While there he engaged an
English builder named Fletcher to come
out to Norahville and build a replica
of the country home of his [Hargreaves’s]
maternal grandfather, where he was born.
The cedar weatherboards, flooring,
lining and furniture were dressed and
shaped by hand and the home built
during 1853-56.
On February 6, 1856, Henderson com-
pleted the sale of three areas of land
“with all buildings, ways, watercourses,
liberties, profits, privileges, rights, mem-
bers and appurtenances to the same
belonging or appertaining” to Edward
Hargreaves for £lOOO cash.
Robert Henderson’s wife was named
Catherine; her mother was named Eliza-
beth. I think it certain that John Slade
was instrumental in naming the village
of Norah.
The furniture, of the local red-cedar,
was made by Fletcher in the home, so
there is no question of its importation
on the Duncan Dunbar.
MULLBONG.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. lEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
S'IRHAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLaSS. MALCOLM 0. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies In aVI Country Centres
Business, Robbery, Etc.
CREDIT-RELEASES AND EXPORTS
A mother £l5 million of the
special deposits lodged by
the trading-banks with the
central bank having been
released, the total releases
during 1958 now add-up to £5O
million.
This handing-back of the
trading-banks’ own funds seems
to have been made largely
because of the pinch of taxa-
tion corhmitments among
many customers of the trading-
banks and because of the drop
in deposits being lodged with
the banks. This steadying of
deposits is in keeping with
lower export prices and (in the
case of wool and wheat particu-
larly) in reduced export volume
resulting from a dry season.
There is not so much money
coming into the country from
overseas sales, in short, and
the smaller balance of trade in
our favor is having an un-
doubted effect on the money-
supply of the whole com-
munity.
During the first quarter of
1957. conditions in Australia
were the reverse of what they
are now. Under influence of a
rising wool-income bank-
deposits rose strongly between
January and March, 1957, and
the central bank called-in £6B
million between January and
April.
Wool-cheque Down
During the current financial
year it looks as though income
from wool alone will be at
least £l5O million less than in
1956-57. Income (internally
and from overseas) from most
other commodities will also be
down. Imports are likely to
cost more this year than last
year.
It seems that the current rate
of importing is being permitted
in hopes of prices for wool and
other exports taking an upturn
in the 1958-59 financial year.
Certainly imports at the 1957-58
rate would seem likely to over-
whelm exports at the level of
the second half of 1957-58.
Although capital-inflow at the
present time may be helping
the ultimate balance-of-pay-
ments, such an inflow does not
warrant the countenancing of
a continuing adverse balance of
trade, such as Canada might
be able to afford for a time.
Among the increases in Aus-
tralia's imports during the first
nine months of 1957-58,
consumer-goods rather than
capital-goods had the greater
prominence. This is not an
extenuating circumstance in an
adverse trade-balance.
A Drop in Efficiency
If lower export prices con-
tinue, the effect on the economy
is likely to be more severe than
has been the experience up to
now. The absence of our
accustomed flow of imports in
exchange for exports will be a
noticeable physical disability,
as always, and the lower per-
sonal incomes of woolgrowers,
wheatfarmers, dairyfarmers and
others will be reflected in the
general buying-power of the
community and in the credit
position.
Though restriction of im-
ports would probably create
additional manufacturing
activity within the Common-
wealth, it has been noted by
Mr. A. E. Monk, president of
the A.C.T.U., that the present
body of unemployed in Aus-
tralia is marginal and mainly
unskilled. There are limits,
therefore, to the extent by
which internal production can
be expanded.
So, while a sustained fall in
our export income would
stimulate some local produc-
tion through curbing imports,
at the same time it would
cause a falling-off in the buying-
power of primary industries,
and create a good deal of
internal dislocation.
Though employment could
probably, be maintained in these
circumstances by a redirection
of financial and Budget policy,
at the same time a falling-off
in essential imports would
cause a drop in efficiency by
the economy as a whole, and
would tend to halt some capital-
works, while drawing man-
power and financial resources
in greater strength to others.
In other words, evpn if
employment can be maintained
"Hes a regular villain, this one—
a real chip off the old block!"
(or increased) during a period of
adverse, balance-of-payments,
the community would be likely
to feel the pinch of shortages
and delays in a manner some-
what similar to that experienced
•earlier in the post-war period,
with the addition of actual
financial problems in the
primary industries.
Commercial and General
"Desponse to the public issue
of 2,986,000 ss. ord. shares
by Commercial and General
Acceptance, Ltd., was over-
whelming. The parent co.,
Commercial Banking Co. of
Sydney, Ltd., took 2,000,000 ss?
shares for cash as foundation-
shareholder, and of the public
issue a million shares were
reserved, without specific
“rights,” for C.B.S. share-
holders. The general public
scrambled for 500,000 of the
other 1,986,000 shares. The
issue was underwritten by lan
Potter and Co., of .Melbourne
’Change.
The new hire-purchase co.
will start-off with a paid
capital of £625,000, the
5,000,000 shares issued being
payable 2s. 6d. on application,
The balance is callable in one
amount not earlier than three
months after allotment. When
the shares are fully' paid,
capital will be £1,250,000.
Commercial and General
Acceptance will have the use
of C.B.S. services and branches
wherever ' required, and it
should be off to a flying start
in the expanding hire-purchase
field. A capable and experi-
enced manager, C. W. Fletcher,
has been appointed.
Directors of C. -and G.
Acceptance are R. J. Vicars,
Sir Edward R. Knox, C. H.
Locke, Sir Norman Nock.
and B. J. D. Page.
Fenwick Holdings, Ltd.
"Cenwick’s pioneered the tug
business in Sydney,
after starting-off lightering
ballast from, and supplying
fresh-water to, sailing-ships in
Port Jackson. In the ’nineties
tug-work was extended to New-
castle, and more recently to
Port Kembla and Botany Bay
(where the big oil-refinery has
been established). These two
last-mentioned ports have
grown greatly in importance
(and tugboat activity) lately.
Since 1950 J. Fenwick and


$,55,000,000
A
ASSETS EX
EXCEED £55,000,000 • ASSETS EXCEED £55,000,000 • ASSETS EXCf
INVEST FOR SECURITY
IN. REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
72 per annum.. 6 yrs.
6Uper annum.. 4 yrs.
annum...2 yrs.
5 1 per annum... 1 yr.
4hi per annum... 9 mths.
4/; per annum... 6 mths.
3 V/. per annum... 3 mths.
Full details are clearly shown in the Prospectus. Ask for your
copy from Members of the Stock Exchange, the 703 branches of the
AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND BANK LTD. or . . .
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
(Established 28 years)
SYDNEY ' MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE ‘ PERTH * HOBART • CANBERRA * NEWCASTLE
WOLLONGONG * GEELONG • BUNBURY
£55,000,0,00
• ASSETS
>,000,000 • ASSETS EXCEED £55,000,000 •
Underwriting Brokers:
!an Potter & Co., Melbourne,
Canberra & Sydney.
Trustee for the Debenture Stockholders:
The Perpetual Executors& Trustees
Association of Australia Limited.
EXCEED £55.000,000 * ASSETS EXCEED £ss.°'
Co. Pty., Ltd., has been engaged
in a long-term tug-replacement
scheme. Including two oil-
burning tugs and the latest
diesel-engined tug, “the co.'s
fleet now consists of eight tugs
and a water-lighter, all of which
are maintained in a first-class
condition, and an order has
recently been placed in the
U.K. for the construction of
another diesel tug.”
The directors feel that the
replacement programme may
only be carried-out by “reten-
tion of adequate profits to
supplement fleet-replacement
reserve, and conversion to
public-company status has
become essential in order to
achieve this aim because of the
onerous taxation legislation ap-
plicable to private companies.”
The comparatively small
capital of the proprietary co.,
which is being acquired for
£ 125,000 (in shares) by a new
holding-co., indicates that much
of the past expansion has been
financed from ploughed-back
profits.
In addition to the 500,000
shares of ss. each being issued
by recently formed Fenwick
Holdings, Ltd., to shareholders
in John Fenwick Pty., Ltd., for
their scrip, the public is now
being offered 100,000 ss. shares
at par, which will carry paid
capital of the new holding-co.
up to £150,000 in ss. shares.
The public issue is intended
to provide working-capital in
addition to retained profits, and
to ensure a spread of share-
holding to comply with Stock
Exchange listing requirements.
Profit for the year ended
June 30, 1953, was equal to
5.8 p.c. on the proposed new
capital, allowing for public-co.
taxation ; 1954, 9.8 p.c. ; 1955,
25.6 p,c. % 1956, 23.7 p.c.;
1957, 28.7 p.c. For the half-
year to December 31 last the
earning-rate was 32.3 p.c. p.a.
Chairman John Fenwick says
that, under normal conditions
and with freedom from indus-,
trial troubles, “profits should
provide a dividend of 10 p.c.
p.a. and allow a reasonable
amount for reserves.”
On book-values net asset
backing for each ss. share is
7s. lid. But compared with
independent valuations the tug
fleet appears to be in the books
at a well written-down figure.
Finances at December 31 last
showed considerable liquidity,
which will help when the new
diesel tug has to be paid for.
In this float the investing
public appears to be getting
fair treatment in respect of both
earning-power and asset-cover,
and management is in experi-
enced hands. The issue has
been underwritten by Hatters-
ley and Maxwell, of Sydney
’Change.
Directors of Fenwick Hold-
ings, Ltd., are John F. Fenwick
(chairman), Ronald A. Fen-
wick, W. F. Dunn and Dudley
A. Neill.
Offshore Petroleum
[From L. OvvenJ
/"\ffshore drilling for oil has
been practised for many
decades on the seaward exten-
sions of prolific fields in Cali-
fornia, and this type of well-
sinking has been carried-out,


Collectors
Australian in London can supply col-
lectors with service medals and decora-
tions from 1793, British and Foreign;
also badges, antique pistols, swords and
all types of militaria, including Nazi
items. For list write to BM/NO&IAD,
London, W.C.I, stating particular in-
terest. Dealers’ inquiries invited.
more recently, off the
Venezuelan, Trinidad and
Persian Gulf coasts, for
example.
In some cases the drilling
has been done from platforms
built on pile foundations ; in
others the rig and all necessary
ancillaries, including operators,
are carried on specially
designed barges ; and some-
times a combination of plat-
form and tender is used.
In practically all instances,
however, the areas chosen for
offshore testing include exten-
sions—or probable extensions
—of producing oilfields. Cdm-
prehensive geological and geo-
physical exploration of the sea-
bed adjacent to the littoral,
for connected or independent
structures, is quite a recent
development.
In Trinidad, which is the
oldest oil-producing territory in
the British Commonwealth,
only one offshore permit has
proved to be a moderate pro-
ducer, although the offshore
leases now cover 10 times
the area of the exploratory oil-
leases on dry land. The island,
in fact, is almost completely
fringed by offshore permits of
varying width, the only gap
being along the shoreline of the
igneous and metamorphic belt,
nearly 10 miles wide, which
constitutes the northernmost
hills.
Probably a major factor in
bringing about this extensive
undersea leasing is that many
of the dry-land oilfields in
Trinidad are giving indications
of depletion. Owing to the
poor results which have been
obtained to date, however,
intensive underwater drilling is
unlikely in the near future,
particularly as the cost of off-
shore operations has proved to
be about five times as heavy as
on land.
For this and other reasons
great circumspection is neces-
sary in the selection of new
offshore areas for oil-
exploration (and possible
exploitation) in any part of the
world, and it is surprising to
learn that Australian public
fund.s are to be employed in
carrying-out this highly
specialised, very costly and
extremely speculative recon-
naissance.
Even more surprising is selec-
tion of the area to be examined,
which consists of a belt 10
miles wide and bounded to the
north-east by the Papuan shore-
line from Galley Reach (about
30 miles n.-n.-w.- from Port
Moresby) to Kerema, 80 miles
to the n.-w.
No indications of commercial
oil have been found inland
from this belt. It is obvious
from the easily observable out-
crop evidence on the littoral,
and from the completely
negative results of the Kaufana
bore and from previously
drilled abortive wells, that both
the geological structures within
the belt and the geological
history of the area are very
complex. Moreover, the
reasons for this complexity are
such as to make the trust-
worthiness of the interpretation
of the dry-land and under-
water geophysical gravity data
—and their translation into
geological structure highly
questionable.
In spite of these facts a
recent press-release states that
“the geological and geophysical
data obtained will be used in
a further assessment of this
south-eastern part of the
permit. Additional underwater
gravity-work in the Gulf of
Papua should provide informa-
tion for future exploration.”
The London Wool-market
/Cargoes of wool had featured
prominently in the life of
the Port of London hundreds
of years before the arrival in
1807 of the first wool grown
in Australia. This first con-
signment, which was shipped
from Sydney was, it is believed,
packed in barrels, and weighed
2451 b. It was sold in the
rooms above Garraway’s Coffee
House, off Cornhiff, and was
said to have fetched 200 d. a
pound—a price without parallel
until recent years.
It is Interesting to note that
extremely high prices were
paid for Australian wool in the
early part of the last century.
In 1816 Merino wool averaged
30d. a pound, in 1818, 42d.,
later the same year 48d., and
in 1819 up to 65d. A sale in
1821 included 321 bales from
Australia, with 26 lots from
Captain Macarthur. Prices
for these lots ranged from
123 d. down to 39d. a pound.
Bearing in mind the value of
money in those days, these
prices were, and still are,
astonishing. '
Wool shipments to London
from Australia increased at a
remarkable rate. In 1820 just
under 100,0001 b. was exported
from Australia. In 1830 this
figure had increased tenfold,
and three years later it had
trebled again.
For many years after 1807
all the wool grown in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand was
sold in London, but several
factors —not least the improve-
ment in world communica-
tions —combined to encourage
the establishment of primary
markets in the countries of
origin. From a phase of
gradual transition which lasted
until after World War I,
London emerged as the spot
market for Commonwealth
wool, the industries from then
on obtaining the bulk of their
supplies in the new primary
market.
Approximately two-thirds of
the entire Australian clip is
used by manufacturers in the
United Kingdom and Europe.
T h e se manufacturers are
anxious to obtain some of
their raw - material require-
ments at short notice to sup-
plement and bridge the longer
delivery of supplies coming
forward from the primary
markets, to enable them to
maintain full activity in the
mills and to operate econo-
mically. As a supplyrcentre
situated within 500 miles of
most of the wool-manufac-
turing industries of Europe,
the London sales provide this
{Continued on page 30)
Export Prices for Primary Products
HThe Marketing Division,
-*■ Department of Primary
Industry, Canberra, has made
available for publication the
details of export prices for
Australian primary products as
shown in the table below. These
prices are prepared each month
and form a basis for continuous
comparison with the preceding
months and year. They are
taken from “Overseas Trading,”
a journal of the Department of
Trade.
Prices £s at end of
April, March, April,
Commodity. Classification. Market. 1957. 1958. 1958.
Greasy Wool 64s average Clean on the
auction - floor
in pence per
lb. Aust. 168 114 106
56s good 136 96 89
Wheat Bulk f.a.q. London £stg.
c.i.f. per ton 27*/27* * 25%
Barley Chevalier London £st^.
No. 3 c.i.f. per ton 25 26 25*
Meat Beef frozen Smithfield (ex
Ist hinds hooks in pen^e
per lb. stg.) 18/19 19/20 211/22*-
Lamb frozen
Ist 37/421b. 25/25| 181/19 21/22
Mutton
Ist wethers lO/11 10/101
49/56 - ■ ”
2nd ewes 9/10 9/ 91
49/56 _ ”
Butter Choicest London £stg.
spot per ton 274 219 205
Cheese Waxed London xsts
spot per tdn 176 145 145
Apples Fancy grade U.K. auction
(Highest (/- stg. per
and lowest) case) 50/55 f 44/60
Pears Packham's • U.K. auction
Triumph (/- stg. per ,
case) 40/50 42/54 42
Dried Average 2-5 U.K. ex store
Sultanas crown £stg. per ton f 141 137*
Canned 30oz. cans U.K. /- stg.
Pineapples choice (minimum^
(sliced) c.i.f. per doz.
cans 30* 29 29 §
Canned 30oz. cans U.K. /- stg. *
Peaches standard (minimum^
(clings) ' c.i.f. per doz.
cans 29% 28 28§
Hides Light N.S.W. auction to 22% to 2\% Jo 19|
Heavy in pence per to 16 to 17f to 17*
Ib.
Honey Light amber U.K. /- stg. per
cwt. c.i.f. 125 100 96
Sugar Raw U.K. £stg.
c.i.f, per ton 66f 36 36
*—Not quoted.
f —No Australian on the U.K. market.
§ —Canned' Fruits Board minimum prices for 1958 season pack.
N.B. —Minimum prices for butter and cheese exported to countries other
than the United Kingdom are determined periodically by the
Australian Dairy Produce Board.


MO,
IS YOUR
MEMORY
100%
RELIABLE?
Psychologist Langford-Penny says:—
“You can remember ANYTHIN'** AT ALL that yon WANT to remfinber!
If you know HOW! TRYING to remember is just not good enough.
Far, far from good enough! Forgetfulness of things that are important
for you to remember is not the fan it of a “poor” memory. If you are
a normal person—then you possess memory-ability far in excess of what
you may fondly imagine. No, this is not ‘just advertising blah, blab,
blah ... —this is FACT!”
“TRENT” WILL SHOW YOU HOW TO REMEMBER—
NAMES AND FACES^people’s names , . faces . . .initials . . . occupations
• . . addresses . . . birthdays . . . hobbies and interests . . . ANYTHING
AT ALH that you WANT to remember about people.
FIGU RES:—statistical and reference 'figures . . . constants . . . dates . . .
prices . . . telephone numbers . . . measurements . . . etc.
WHAT YOU READ:—text" and' reference book material . . . trade journals
. . . your STUDIES . . no matter WHAT it is you are shown how to
“GET” the essentials after—TWlCE READING ! ! ! ,
LECTI'HES, CLASS ROOM WORK, ETC.—you will learn how to “take in”
the essentials and RETAIN this knowledge PROGRESSIVELY
THROUGHOUT THE YEA HI
WORD-FOR-WORD MEMORISINGIodge ritual . . . definitions . . . poetry
. . . quotations . . . plays . . . actors’ lines . . . TV scripts . . . ANY-
THING AT ALL that has to be known “word-for-word.,”
CONVERSATIONS: —essential details from conferences . . . interviews . . .
instructions . . . reports . . . conversations.
WHAT YOU SEE AND HEAR:—special techniques to enable you to recall
with absolute accuracy—what you particularly WANT to remember of
what you SEE and HEAR. A most important requirement of memory!
HOW TO REMEMBER AHEAD:—appointments . . . tilings that you want to
do “at ascertain time”. . . how to remember tbe hian.v important things
that “hit” your mind at all kinds of inconvenient times, that you want
to be “reminded'’ of later.
BLUE-PRINTS, DIAGRAMS, PLANS, DRAWINGS, ETC.—yes, there's a
special section for those of you who wish to remember such details.
WHERE YOU PUT THINGS:—you will thank "TRENT” to the end of your
days for showing you how to INSTANTLY remember where you left
your keys, your glasses, your pen, your screwdriver.
EQUATIONS AND FORMULAE:—engineering . . . chemical . . . navigational
. . . etc. . . . yes. several pages of the course are devoted to this
important (for some memory requirement.
SPELLING: —so you “can't spell for ntits!” Ail right—there are several
pages for your benefit.
UNUSUAL, TECHNICAL, BOTANICAL, ANATOMICAL, FOREIGN, AND
SUCH WORDS AND NAMES: —the special section on this subject enables
you to remember such words after TWICE reading or hearing.
WHICH IS WHICH: —stalagmite or stalactite ; . . concave or convex . . .
foolscap or quarto? . . . etc. . . . never again need you be confounded
by which is which?
LONG LISTS OF THINGS —IN CORRECT ORDER . . . FOREIGN
LANGUAGES . .- . MUSIC:—“TRENT” is very COMPREHENSIVE. You
take out of it whatever is applicable to your own particular requirements.
—taken seriously, and applied intelligently “TRENT” will also: —
0 stimulate your senses —“tone them up” generally.
0 make you more observant.
0 strengthen your powers of concentration.
0 enable you to grasp important points quickly.
41 increase greatly your general and specific knowledge.
0 develop your reasoning powers.
0 help you to think clearly and specifically.
# enable you to “GET” the facts, quickly and accurately.
0 cut your studying time by 30 per cent.. . . and more.
0 save you much valuable time —in general.
# help you to keep “mentally young.”
Success? Or failure?
' Business executive or aspiring: politician — air pilot
or clerk — industrialist or professional man —
farmer or grazier student or housewife —it
matters not who you are, or what you are —there
can be no doubt that your success or failure is
dependent so very much upon YOUR MEMORY!
Do you not agree?
You already HAVE the memory-ability! There is
not the least shadow of doubt about that.
It hs well worth your while to learn just how this
memory ability of yours/functions—how to put it
to effective use.
You can trust “Trent!”
“TRENT” is the trade name of Langford-Penny’S
seven-lesson course of instruction—
“ Your memory: how it works:
HOW TO USE IT!”
The course that has already made thousands of
friends in this country alone. The course that wa«
rigidly, yet successfully, tested by the N-S.W.
Police Dept. The course of instruction that has
been acclaimed as . . 100 per cent, ‘fair-dinkum.’ ”
Are you in the panel?
In the panel at the left are listed some of the
benefits that you can expect from the “TRENT”
course. These claims are covered by WRITTEN
OIIARANTEE! Place a tick against those items
that are of interest to you. AND TO THE
MEMBERS OF YOUR FAMILY!
Then —if suitably impressed and keen to learn
further details—fill in the coupon below, and post it
to us-. Free literature will come to you in a PLAIN,
SEALED envelope. Your enquiry places you under
no obligation whatsoever.
“Are you studying for exams.?”
“TRENT” is the ONLY course of its kind that
dtsals with the application oT memory to study.
Letters in our files testify- to the fact that
“Trented” students, apart from being successful in
their exams., have been able to — “. . . cut their
studying time down by as much as from 30 to 60
.per cent. . . .” You will have abundant evidence
of this when you receive the free Ki-page booklet—
“AßE YOU STUDYING FOR EXAMINATIONS?”
NO MATTER WHO YOU ARE—NO MATTER WHERE
YOU LIVE—“TRENT” CAN BE YOUR ONE-WAY
FIRST-CLASS TICKET TO
A FIRST-CLASS MEMORY!
CALL PHONE WRITE or MAIL THE
COUPON BELOYV for full particulars.
“TRENT” MIND AND MEMORY DEVELOPMENT
PTY r . LTD.,
214 Pitt Street, Sydney (next Lyceum Theatre),
and —
61 Market Street, Sydney (opp. Woolworths).
Phones : MA 5686, BM 6392.
Mr. YV. Langford-Penny, Principal,
“TRENT” Mind * Memory Development Pty. Ltd.*
Box 4578, 0.P.0-, SYDNEY '
I am genuinely interested in your course of instruc-
tion. Please send me, without obligation, full detail*.
Mr., Mrs., Miss
FULL
(Print CLEARLY please)
(P.S.: If you are studying for exams., remember that
“TRENT” can cut your studying time by 30 per
cent. —and more.) -rku


QUEENSLAND
INSURANCE
Co. Ltd.
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE &
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies
throughout the World.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Petre Munteanu
Rumanian lyric-tenor Petre
Munteanu has an effortlessly
produced voice of excellent
quality over a range which
takes him down to almost a
light-baritone’s chest-notes. He
is at his best in songs calling
for delicate control and he
began his recital at Sydney
Town Hall with such a song—
Caccini’s “Amarilli” and
geared to it a beautiful flow-
ing legato on the half-voice.
So too with another old Italian
song, Sarti’s “Lungi Dal Caro
Bene.” Scarlatti’s “Se Florindo”
was all vitality and mis-
chievousness.
A Schubert bracket included
two of his loveliest “brook”
songs (“Wohin” and “Der
Neugierige”); “Morgengruss,”
suitably enraptured ; “Trock’ne
Blumen,” given a good shot
of nostalgic sadness; and
“Ungeduld,” impatience exem-
plified.
The singer emerged trium-
phantly from a group of four
fine Hugo Wolf songsr—always
a severe test of a singer’s
intellectual capacity. He cap-
tured all the poetry and
imagery of the “ElVes’ Song,”
and in this he had subtle sup-
port from Henri Penn, whose
accompaniments were always
warm and sympathetic.
Seven Spanish songs which
ranged over a wide variety of
moods were given with the
greatest verve, and in Bredi-
ceanu’s fine Rumanian folk-
song the swift modulations of
the chief melody gave it an
unusual flavor.
• ♦♦♦ ❖ ♦>
Show Boat
Sydney’s Show Boat has
taken on a new lease of life
and now sails up the Harbor
every second night, wiping the
worries from the business-
man’s brow with a show named,
rather unhappily, “Parisian
Peepshow.” That is the only
unhappy thing about it, how-
ever the show is liveliness
itself, and the fun, though
raucous, is fresh and clean.
Bobby Limb does a mighty
job of entertaining, Johnny
O’Connor sings and clowns with
gusto, Dawn Lake and the four
ballet girls look decorative, and
there are a couple of nudes in
the final can-can turn. They
stand immobilised in alcoves
and are apt to be overlooked
as they follow the dazzling
mobility of Margot the Z-bomb
whose curvaceousness and
vitality would make anyone
blink.
❖ ❖ ♦>
New York City Ballet
Stravinsky’s - eerie opening
music, and a primitively painted
curtain with a large twisted
bird entwined with the flpating
feathered body of a woman,
set the witching mood very
nicely for “Firebird”
(Stravinsky-Balanchine) at the
opening of the New York City
Ballet’s current programme at
Sydney Empire. And to carry
it through when the curtain
went up there was the dim
stage with its backdrop of a
burning bush and the primitive
bird, fantastically large and
distorted, falling out of a sky
in which the sun and moon
shine side by side.
Francisco Moncion, &s Prince
Ivan, leaped and brandished his
v bow with the verve and form
of a Tartar tribesman, and
Melissa Hayden, as the shining
red-gold bird, danced with and
against his alternate Mongol
ferocity and superstitious fear
in an uncannily birdlike series
of delicate flutterings and
spinning -flights.
The fairytale mood was not
sustained at the same level in
the remainder of the ballet, but
there were some effective con-
trasts between the traditional
patterns of the peasant dances
and the capering and gesturing
of the lizard-faced, animal-
tailed creatures in a Saurian
saturnalia conducted by his
nibs, the Evil Wizard. And
into this maelstrom Miss
Hayden, on sure and delicate
points, flashed like a burst of
light to hand the Prince the
sword with which he van-
quished Evil and made a monte
of the happy-ever-after.
The free-play, horse-play, by-
play and team-play which
comprise “Interplay” (Morton
Gould-Jerome Robbins) are a
series of movements with a
classical background, touched-
off by a new freedom of
expression and displayed by
groupings at intervals down the
length of a bare stage reaching,
with the aid of an ethereal
backdrop, to apparent infinity.
The dancing was uniformly
relaxed without any striving
for effect, and Robert Barnett
and Roy Tobias literally
reached spectacular heights in
new forms of the classic turn-
in-air.
Diana Adams, Patricia
Wilde and Jacques d’Amboise
gave a very graceful account of
the gentle and romantic “Pas
de Trois” (Glinka-Balanchine),
and the lively dancing and
glittering costumes in a repeat
performance of “Western
Symphony” (Hershy Kay-
Balanchine) brought the even-
ing to a spectacular close.
♦> *** ♦>
“Sugar and Spice”
Current at Sydney Tivoli,
this show is a curious com-
promise between polished pro-
fessionalism and backyard
vaudeville.
Plenty of sugar, yes: when
the Tiv. ballet rollicks, twists
and oozes across the stage
mouthing the “Sugar and
Spice” song you can’t help
but notice it. You can’t avoid
noticing, too, their rather
ragged precision. But their
costumes! Magnificent!
Spiciug the sugar are Vic
Hyde, who plays trumpets —
a bare statement, since he can
play, and does, not one, two or
three, but four trumpets simul-
taneously and harmoniously ;
George Holmes, who besides
dusting the Tiv. floor with a
virtuoso display of tap-dancing,
swallows 'and regurgitates
lighted cigarettes ; Joe Martin,
whose series of “Topical Tales”
turn-out more-or-less typical;
and the irrepressible Buster
Fiddess, caught whisking a girl
off to the Blue Mountains in
his stock-car.
There are two outstanding
numbers: Eleanor Gunter, who
accomplishes the impossible in
balancing—she evjen manages to
balance one-handed on a
couple of champagne-bottles ;
and ventriloquist Clifford
Guest, about whom one finds
little to say except that his act
is extremely funny and is well
worth seeing.
“Mr. Versatility” Ronnie
Ronalde did three things: he
sang, he yodelled, he whistled.
Admitted, his whistling, which
he seems to favor, is quite
brilliant —almost as good as the
birds. One of his pieces,
Ketelbey’s “In a Monastery
Garden,” served to destroy at
least one of this commentator’s
illusions. Ronalde peopled the
Garden with a veritable aviary.
But in the last verse Everest had
been scaled; and, orchestra
trudging along with soloist, the
honored melody seared one's
ears like scalding water.
A. W.
❖ ❖
Haendel and Pekarek
Elgar came out on top in a
Brisbane concert where his
“Cockaigne” Overture rubbed
shoulders with music by
Khatchaturian and Franck.
Rudolf Pekarek, v who con-
ducted, made little of the foolish
opinion that Elgar is unknown
east of the Thames, and that
his music is too English for
European conductors anyway.
One city resembles another in
countless ways, and the
peculiarly Cockney quality of
this overture had nothing to
baffle a conductor who hails
from Brisbane by way of
Prague. Even the Salvation
Army passage sounded
authentic in this musical picture
of a great city as it is when the
petrol fumes have blown away
and the parking-meters stop
ticking.
Khatchaturian’s Violin Con-
certo was given its first Aus-
tralian performance by Ida
Haendel. It is not very serious
music in spite of its title, and
that is all to the good coming
from a composer who can be
astonishingly noisy and empty
when he has the vast space of
a concerto to fill up. The tunes
were simple and lively, though
more lively than memorable.
Miss Haendel put the music on
display with complete ease, and
achieved the distinction of being
the first fiddler in years to pick
a, concerto outside the well-
worn half-dozen that stagger
in and out of programmes year
after year.
Franck’s symphony com-
pleted the programme. Now


Fculli IflC
Fmlu^€
mm.
Australia’s population has passed the
nine-and-threequarter million mark. On official
estimate, we should turn the ten million about
March next year.
By then, there will be four people in this
country for every three there were at the census
of 1947.
Our post-war rise in population has certainly
been impressive. What is equally remarkable, I
believe, is the way in which the economy
has been shaping, to correspond with this
numerical increase.
We can mever be complacent on such a vital
subject as our rate of development. But I think
we can sensibly say there is little wrong with a
country which puts more than twenty-five per
cent, of its national income into public and private
investment—as Australia has done in the past
ten years; with a country in which more than
seventy-two per cent, of a vast public works
programme is financed from current revenue.
The world should be told of this performance,
for it should satisfy questions that must present
themselves to the minds of potential investors in
our country. It answers for them the natural
query; WHAT FAITH HAVE THESE PEOPLE
IN THEMSELVES?
More than £6OO-million has been invested in
Australia from overseas in the past eight years.
Nearly two-thirds of it has come from British
interests, slightly less than one-third from the
United States of America.
Without this inflow, in addition to our own
effort. Australian industry could not have been
developed as it has, since the war; nor, through
the maintenance of our ambitious programme of
immigration, would we now be on the way to
a population of ten million.
More capital—much of it—is needed to work
and win the wealth of this continent. But there
is more than that to be funded. Our hopes rest
finally on that spiritual investment which we write
in the record as Faith: on the Belief we can find
in ourselves, and inspire in others, to make the
most of our grand opportunity.
// //asT^s
7
showing signs of mustiness, it
can easily become monotonous
as the themes are dinned into
one's ears over and over again.
Once this was looked on as
music of great spiritual power,
but time has unkindly shown
that other composers set higher
standards. Now the symphony
falls into the category of works
for which a heading once in a
while is quite enough. And
as it appears on programmes
every three or four years it can
be listened to with a little
affection even if it is not the
kind of work that constantly
reveals new delights. Mr.
Pekarek did his best for' it,
before sending it on its w'ay
to another long rest.
D. J. M.
❖ ❖ ❖
Carillon Recital
Two-thirty on a Sunday
afternoon at Sydney University,
in the quadrangle the green
lawn artistically despoiled by
dead leaves and a single sheet
of greaseproof lunchwrap, the
crenellated clock-tower turret
etched against an infinite blue
background . . .
A silver rush, a metallic
tumble of sound: Recital 575
was on its way with Hamilton
Harty’s “Little Fantasy and
Fugue,” and with' Errol Lea-
Scarlett, honorary carillonist,
/'high up in the tower at the
carillon keyboard. After the
“Theme and Variation” of
G. Nees there were three
carols: “Joseph est bien marie,”
a singularly charming little
melody ; “Civitas Davidica, ’
arranged by Adrian Wintle
(who is at present arranging
these sentences) ; followed by
“A la Venue de Noel,” to
C. Balbastre’s simple and
effective arrangement.
Of the traditional music,
“Drink To Me Only” and
“Begone, Dull Care” rolled out
sonorously: a fine sound, those
tenor bells ; rich and golden.
Two delicate old English airs—
“La Bounette” and “La doune
cella”—came over very well,
due, no doubt, to the calculated
sparseness of the harmony.
Generally speaking, thick,
widely jumping harmony tends
to go haywire on the carillon ;
fundamental changes of
harmony are much better.
Except, of course, brilliant
toccata- work where the treble
bells cascade and skitter over
a slow melody in, say, the
tenor.
There were two hymn-tunes
*—-“St. Flavian” and “Stella.”
Treatment here consists of play-
ing the tune right through,
later decorating it with uppef-
work. J. Vandeplas's “Fuga
for Carillon” completed the
one-hour recital: a marathon
physical effort for Mr. Scarlett.
Well might he have envied this
commentator, lying on his
back immersed in sunlight and
music!
A. W.
“The Burning Glass”
In Canberra Repertory’s
performance of Charles
Morgan's “The Burning Glass”
we had to sit and watch men
and women with the values of
Biggies, and Prime Ministers
with disgraceful opinions on
foreigners (people, Morgan
calls them, of “variegated
ancestors”), while the poor
foreigners were shown, com-
plete with withered hand, as
people who wanted to rape and
debauch the English before they
scorched them to death.
Of course Morgan rises
above this at times, but he
never lets one forget that
saving civilisation is saving the
English drawing-room that
that is all the English know
and all they need to know.
Pat Hutchinson looked
charming as the wife, and pre-
sumably Morgan thinks such
a woman is charming—though
others feel that only a monster
could watch a man commit
suicide because he was a
possible menace to drawing-
room civilisation. lan Bell and
Owen Wright also looked well
as politician and public servant
crusading for the right to punt
fading beauties on the Cherwell.
Tim Ellis and Neil Hunter
were like promising junior
members of a London club
rather than modern scientists—
but then it was Morgan's fault,
not theirs, that the mind and
values of the scientist were not
explored.
Alex Loikine made a flesh-
and-blood person, and Nita
Park created the grace, the faint
whiff of a nostalgia for the
days Morgan was really writing
about the resurrection of
Edwardian England.
M. C.
❖ *> ❖
University Revue
Armed with a pencil and
open mind this commentator
turned-up at Sydney Uni-
versity’s Union Hall for the
students’ ’5B revue, titled
“Unik” —one gathered from the
programme (which, incidentally,
is a little beauty) the title has
some vague affiliation with the
International Geophysical Year.
Swept to his seat by an


start the dau right!
M
VV
I
«SjCo%S^
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO JOHN CHARLES WALKER late of
61 Rainbow Street Kingsford.-—TAKE
NOTICE that EVELYN RAE WALKER
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 393
of 1957 on the ground of desertion for
three (3) years If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by the 31st day
of July 1958 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from PHILIP
NORMAN ROACH, Solicitor, 160 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN GAVIN HOUSTON late of
Bathurst.—TAKE NOTICE that MARY
CLARICE HOUSTON has filed Petition
for Divorce No. 2476 of 1957 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may eater
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Macquarie Street Sydney
by the 25th day of July 1958 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. SMITHERS
WARREN & LYONS. Solicitors, of 169
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO THOMAS JOHN BRITTON late of 25
Glenview Street Paddington.—TAKE
NOTICE that MARGARET BRITTON
has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1323 of 1958 on the grounds of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may -enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Cou-t
Macquarie Street Sydney by the 25th
day of July 1958 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. SMITHERS W T ARREN &
LYONS, Solicitors, of 169 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
TO KEITH BASIL BAILEY formerly
of Newcastle in the State of New South
Wales but whose present whereabouts
are unknown.- —TAKE NOTICE that your
wife FREDA MARGARET BAILEY
has commenced an action No. 634 of
1958 against you for the dissolution of
her marriage with you on the ground of
desertion without cause for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend this
action you may enter an appearance in
the Registry of the Supreme Court of
Queensland at Brisbane within thirty
days from the date of the publication
hereof. You may obtain without charge
a copy of the Writ of Summons and
Petition from STEPHENS & SHEP-
HERDSON, Solicitors, 113-115 Queen
Street, Brisbane. —E. P. LARACY,
Second Deputy Registrar.
GUARD
C&4it
PROTECTA
Suitable (or every type of business it record*
all Sales, Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing in appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Diltriburini A[enls~
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE »
PERTH ,
C. Pen fold & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
Vardon Price Ltd.
Itockot Book Co. (Au*t.)
avalanche of students, nailed to
it by tender music belching,
double;-forte, from a loud-
speaker not 6ft. distant, he
was more-or-less forced into
a meditative silence, so that
when the curtain lifted its feet
and the company its voices
(“This is our University”) he
was profoundly thankful.
Thereafter, he observed,
material was largely standard
stuff: the unmentionable rear-
ing its unmentionable head. A
battery of Uni. lovelies (notably
Beverley Phillips, Elizabeth
Laver and Suzanne Fisher)
showed plenty of talent. Con-
sider, for instance, Miss
Phillips’s rich, lilting soprano
air, “Lola’s Saucepan” (“Lola
has broken her saucepan, And
she can’t get it mended again”).
Now why on earth did every-
one laugh? Some people just
don’t go for good singing.
And when Miss Fisher
bounced on to the stage com-
plete (or incomplete) in a hula
and alternately sang and hip-
wiggled “Fiji Fanny” the
audience seemed preoccupied
with the words rather than
with, say, the imaginative set
or even the glorious hula. Such
craftmanship! Viva la hula !
One of the best items was
“The Winter of the Shifting
Gumleaf,” with an abo. (Mal-
colm Robertson, under the
mask and warpaint) slinging-off
at “New Australians” —one of
them, none other than W. C.
Wentworth, is pitching for his
piccaninny teenage daughter.
Straying into the orchestra-
pit at a corroboree, W. C. gets
caught in a bull-roarer and
gives up the ghost, whereupon
the abo. instructs his gin to
boil-up the pot—“ We’re going
to assimilate him!”
The author of “The Fire on
the Snow” might have been
startled by Scott, Wilson, Oates
and Evans trudging “Over the
Fire to Snow*—every so often,
when Wilson predicted a snow-
storm, a student danced across
the stage showering the quartet
with Lux soapflakes—but it was
good-natured humor. Another
good ’un was “What is a
Bodgie?” spoken with Olivier-
like clarity by the versatile Mr.
Rdbertson —“his needs are few:
three pairs of black trousers,
four leather jackets.”
Some of the skits, such as
the one on a radio-personality,
must remain unreported all
that can be said is they’re
certainly funny—but this com-
mentator did notice, in “Over
the Po to Skye,” a single line of
Eliot incongruously peeping
out from the dialogue.
A. W.
Artbursts
Sydney Art
David Jones’ had an
elephant on the fifth floor and
the Macquarie Galleries had 27
pneumatic-drills tearing-up the
road outside when the present
commentator went to see the
1958 exhibition of the Aus-
tralian Commercial and
Industrial Artists Assn, at the
one and James Sharp's abstracts
at the other: so perhaps one
may be excused for being brief.
The elephant had got tired of
autographing books for
children by stamping them
(the books, not the children)
with its trunk, and was weav-
in that useful organ to and
fro pretending to search the
children for buns but really
waiting its chance to sweep its
stamp to the floor; which
it did with great joy from
time to time, and then, when
the keeper picked it up,
knocked it down again.
After this animated exhibi-
tion the commercial art all
seemed rather tame; and, in
fact, limited to the work of
financial members of the
A.C.A.1.A.A., it represented
only a fraction of Sydney com-
mercial art. The book- and
magazine-design section hardly
existed.
However, it was pleasing to
see the extremely colorful
Annual Report of the Com-
monwealth Trading Bank,
which seems to have “lisped in
numbers, for the numbers
came” (in green, mauve, red
and purple); and also, most
unexpectedly, the menu of the
annual dinner of the Geelong
Waterworks and Sewerage
Trust which, in the most deli-
cate contrast to some of the
trust’s activities, was bound in
white raffia on a pale-green
background, with an appropri-
ately gilt-edged title-page. They
had turkey.
James Sharp is a follower of
Paul Klee, his designs and
figures quietly manifesting
themselves in the midst of blue-
green mosaics. Not much can
be said in this style, and most
of it has been said already ;
but Sharp at any rate says his
few words painstakingly and
harmoniously. His exhibition
is replaced this week by paint-
ings from Mallorca by Ronald
Millen.
Films
“Bitter Victory”
This British war-film has a
good basic story—a raid by
British commandos dressed as
Arabs on a German unit-
headquarters during the Libyan
campaign to secure vital
documents —but a feeble sub-
plot involving the C.O. of the
raiding-party (Curt Jurgens),
his captain (Richard Burton)
and the C.O.’s wife (Ruth
Roman) is melodramatically
treated and weakens the whole
structure. The well-timed and
well-planned raid itself is good
filmcraft.
At Sydney Capitol.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Jackboot Mutiny”
The hatching of the Army
officers’ plot against Hitler in
1944; the military precision of
the planning by which the
trusted Colonel Stauffenberg
placed the bomb under the
conference - table at the
Fiihrer’s East Prussian h.-q.;
and the vengeful aftermath
when Adolf miraculously
escaped assassination these
are traced with great detail in
this German-made film, which
has an all-German cast,
German dialogue and English
sub-titles. It is competently
acted, tensions are kept taut
throughout, and a running
commentary helps to give a
clear picture of the swiftly
moving events.
At Sydney Esquire.
❖ ❖ *
“Tarnished Angels”
With a whiskered plot stuck
on to a setting of plane-racing
during the ’thirties, this poorly-
directed opus drags its length
along to an obvious denoue-
ment about an hour later than
it should. Robert Stack, as a
surly, cross - grained pilot;
Dorothy Malone, as his fed-up
wife ; and Rock ff udson, as the
one she turns to for sympathy
but who . nobly abjures her
voluptuous charms until after
the fatal crash, do their best.
Greater Union circuit.


The WILD CAT
COLUM
General Industries, Ltd.
Last term saw General Industries, Ltd.,
recover all of the ground lost sq
suddenly and rather unexpectedly in the
preceding term, but earnings for the year
to February 28 last were certainly no more
than modest when regarded irv the light
of the £4,284,503 share-capital employed
by the co.
However, settlement of the industrial
disputes which dislocated operations at
Metters’ Sydney plant, and eventually
halted production for three months,
should permit further progress in the
current term, the higher profits reported
by Metters, Ltd., and Metters K.F.B.
Pty. in Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth
suggesting that these cos., the largest
members of the General Industries group,
are capable of making headway despite
the absence of any significant increase
in homebuilding activity. Other
encouraging pointers include the improved
showing by Grimwood Electrical Products
Pty., the smaller loss turned-in by
Sovereign Appliances Pty. (which appears
to have some chance of operating
profitably in the current term) and the
first distribution by the 50-p.c.-owned
Admiral of Australia Pty.
The manufacture of stoves, baths,
basins, coppers* gas-heaters, domestic
metalware, etc., has been the backbone
of the General Industries organisation
ever since the parent co. was formed,
in 1927, to merge the interests of K.F.B.
Foundry, Ltd., with those of the old-
established Metters, Ltd.
In 1955, however, the group undertook
an ambitious but, as later events have
shown, a somewhat ill-timed expansion
programme which involved the exten-
sion of established subsidiary interests
and entry into the refrigeration, TV, and
radio fields through Rotafrig Pty. (since
renamed Sovereign Appliances), and
Admiral of Australia. Grimwood
Electrical Products Pty., a Sydney-based
manufacturer of electric heating-elements,
was also acquired in the same year.
To finance these developments the
parent co. offered pref. and ord. share-
holders 1,699,144 £1 ords. at par, in the
ratio of two new khares for every three
held, lifting paid capital (including
£666,000 in 7 p.c. prefs.) to its present
total.
An abrupt 25 p.c. contraction in earn-
ings followed in 1956 and a £35,491 loss
in 1957, Sovereign Appliances running-
np substantial losses in its attempts to
grab a share of the oversupplied
refrigerator market. At the same time
a decline in homebuilding and increasing
competition cut-back returns from the
Metters cos., the Sydney branch of
Metters, Ltd., experiencing a “severe
setback.” As a result the ord. div.-rate,
steady at 10 p.c. for 14 years, was cut to
4 p.c.
Last term strikes and other industrial
disturbances, coupled with difficult trad-
ing conditions, hampered Metters’ efforts
to place the Sydney works on a profitable
footing, and once again losses incurred in
Sydney “largely offset” profits won by
Metters in Perth and Adelaide. Neverthe-
less, with the Sovereign Appliance deficit
£109,678 smaller at £102,637, a better
showing by Metters K.F.B. and Grim-
wood Electrical and the first return from
the Admiral investment all helping to
strengthen the overall position, the group
was able to convert the loss of the
previous year into a £337,345 net profit.
Still, the improvement perhaps wasn't ail
it might appear ; after “estimating the net
realisable value” of certain stocks the
board considered it necessary to write-
down their book-value by £lOO,OOO, draw-
ing on a stock-reserve (of previously
undisclosed dimensions) for the
purpose:—
General Industries and Subsidiaries.
Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Prbfit. 7 p.c. / Ord. senes, serves.
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
Depreciation written-back, £42.380 . . 508,522
1953.. 20,851 10= 150.921 67,308 575,830
Tax overprovided, £BO,OOO .. ... 655,530
Unexplained reduction, £18,913 .. 636,917
1954.. 624 20,851 10 = 188,271 131,502 768,419
Unexplained reduction, £4397 .. 764,022
1955.. 074 33,278 10 = 188,270 185,526 949,548
Unexplained reduction, £4030 . . 945,518
1956.. 46,626 10 = 232,582 26,728 972,246
To staff fund, £91,617 .. .. 880,629
Loss.
1957.. 46,620 4 = 144,740 653,778
Stock-reserve disclosed, £635,000 .. 1,288,778
Slocks written-down, £lOO,OOO .. 1,188,778
Tax overprovided, £2339 .. ... 1,191,117
Profit.
1958.. 46,620 4 = 144,740 145,985 1,337,102
The ord. div.-rate was held at 4 p.c.
The profit, claimed after providing
£133,205 (up £16,495) for taxation and
£282,067 (up £37,654) for depreciation,
covered the pref. div. and a shade Qver
8 p.c. on ord. capital.
Outside liabilities and provisions
increased by £24,906 and, allowing for
the lower stock-reserve (included, at
£535,000, with other reserves in the
following table), working-capital slipped
by £35,265 to a seemingly adequate
£2,154,275, advances to Admiral rising by
£85,000 to £150,000. The basis on which
stocks (equal to 37 p.c. of total assets)
are valued is not indicated in the balance-
sheet : —-
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1956. 1957. 1958.
Pref £666,000 £666,000 £666,000
Old 3,593,914 3,618,493 3,618,505
Reserves .. .. 880,629 653,778 1,337,102
Registered notes.. 500,000 500,000 500,000
Overdraft .. .. —■ 1,129,885 1,269,468
Creditors .. ~ 610,460 612,830 550,990
Tax provision .. 608,695 447,220 259,643
Staff fund .. 150,000 100,000 100,000
Final divs. .. 161,756 23,310 168,050
£7,171.454 £7,761,516 £8,469,756
Freeholds ~ .. 1,304.209 1,687,010 1,685,597
Plant . . . . 1,664.897 2,007,091 2,007,103 -
Shares other cos. 124,630 124,630 124,630
Loan assoc, co. .. 65,600 150,000
Stocks .. .. 3,016,722* 2,772,632* 3,171,211
Debtors, etc. .. 970,443 1,091,045 1,328.-268
Cash .. .. 84,553 14,108 2.947
£7.171.454 £7,761,516 £8,469,756
* After deducting stock-reserve.
The provision for depreciation exceeded
the outlay on fixed assets by £l4Ol, free-
holds appearing in the accounts at 1934
valuation or cost, less amounts written-
off, and plant at cost less depreciation.
Although slackness in the building-
trades seems likely to limit the group’s
opportunities in the current term,
uninterrupted production at the Sydney
plant should give Metiers a chance to
improve on last term’s showing, while an
upward trend in the turnover of Sovereign
Appliances could, if maintained, give that
co. its first trading profit. Admiral, from
all reports, continues to prosper.
Supported by net tangible assets of
275. sd. the f.-p. £1 ords. sold at 18s. 3d.
last week, to return £4 7s. Bd. p.c., from
a 4 p.c. distribution, ‘the well-protected
7 p.c. prefs. yielding £7 9s. 4d. p.c. at
18s. 9d.
Holeproof Industries, Ltd.
nPHE recorporation of the group seems to
have been well omened, accompanied
as it was by a general revival of the
errant fortunes of Maison Holeproof,
which engages in the knitting of hosiery
and sportswear, underwear and outer-
wear.
Consolidated net profit for the non-
operating Holeproof Industries, Ltd.,
from formation-date, June 27 last, and
its subsidiaries to December 31, rose by
£80,955, or 48 p.c., by comparison with
1956 figures, which have been adjusted
since the balance-date of Holeproof
(N.S.W.), Ltd., has now been brought
into line with that of its sister-offshoots.
The earnings of £250,252 were computed
after deducting £223,000 for depreciation
and £201,005 (down £44,929) for taxation,
an allowance which would seem a little on
the conservative side even taking into
consideration a £14,000 loss suffered by
one subsidiary:
Holeproof, Li d. and Subsidiaries.!
t Dividends x Nominal
, Pref. N Ord. Re-
Dec., Profit. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 6 p.c. serves.*
£ £ £ £ £ £
’61.. 130,316 2215 3000 13,000 24,926 413.277
Added reserves, £584 .. .. .. 413,816
8 p.c.
’62.. 88,787 2215 3000 15,500 41,120 440,813
To contingencies, £30,000 .. .. 410,813
Added reserves. £2752.. .. .. 418,505
Share premiums, £IO,OOO .. .. 423,565
12J p.c.
'63.. 170,047 2215 3000 18,000 66,020 504,377
From contingencies, £15,500 .. .. 519,877
Assets-revaiuation reserve, £360,000.. 869,877
Reserves capitalised, £195,000 .. 674,877
Less reserve adjustment, £1244 .. 673,633
'64.. 228,912 2215 3000 20,500 71,339 805.491
Surplus absorption A.K.M., £228,6141,034,105
10 p.c.
'66.. 96,111 2215 3000 20,500 129.818 974,683
Profit sale assets, £44,065 .. .. 1,018,748
’56.. 135,735 22X5 3000 20,500 130,380 998,3*8
* Subject to intangibles, £21,362 at 31/12/’S«J.
f After deducting outside shareholders' interests.
Holeproof Industries, Ltd.
> To R»- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
Intangibles written-off, £21,350 .. 1,084.335
Profit sale assets. £32,672 .. .. 1,117,007
Formation exes, w/off, £13,771 ...1,103,236
Difference between par value of shares
acquired and shares and notes issued,
£33,939 1.069.297
1957 .. 250,252 176,018 74,234 1,143,531
Before the reconstruction, the senior
partner of the quadripartite organisation
was Holeproof, Ltd., which controlled the
entire share-capital of its co-Melburn-
ians, Holeproof Apparel, Ltd., and Aus-
tralian Knitting Mills, Ltd., and owned
besides a majority interest in Holeproof
(N.S.W.), Ltd., a public co. in its own
right. Although not strictly comparable,
the 16.6 p.c. won on average ord. capital
under the new arrangement is encouraging


in the light of more recent performances
by Holeproof, Ltd. —26.6 p.c. (1953),
35.5 p.c., 5.4 p.c., and 9.2 p.c. (1956).
The collapse of earning-power in 1955
followed the acquisition early that year
of Australian Knitting Mills, which has
since been undergoing resiting and re-
organisation, in the meantime straining,
but not altering, the parent’s div.-paying
policy. Last year it was the only division
to operate unprofitably, disclosing a
£14,000 deficit, which, however, was more
than compensated by a surplus on the
sale of part of its fixed assets.
Capital-structure has been greatly
simplified by the formation of the hold-
ing-co., whose scrip will also find a wider
market. In December, 1956, paid capital
of the parent comprised 5,215,232 ss.
ords,. and 27,685 8 p.c. cum. prefs.,
50,000 6 p.c. cum. seconds, and 410,000
5 p.c. cum. thirds, all of 20s. each ; in
August, 1956, that of Holeproof (N.S.W.)
1,271,048 ss. ord. stock-units and
150,000 20s. 6 p.c. cum. prefs. participat-
ing to 7 p.c.
Only the shareholdings in Holeproof,
Ltd., and Holeproof (N.S.W.), Ltd., were
directly involved in the takeover, terms
of which were: one ss. ord. in the hold-
ing co. for each ss. ord. in the two sub-
sidiaries ; 100 20s. 7 p.c. redeemable
cumulative prefs. and 50 20s. 64 p.c.
registered unsecured notes for every 100
8 p.c. “A” prefs.; 50 prefs. and 60 notes
for every 100 6 p.c. “B” prefs. or Hole-
proof (N.S.W.) prefs., and 50 prefs. and
50 notes for every 100 5 p.c. “C” ptefs.
The notes will be redeemable at par not
later than 1967, nor earlier than July 1,
1964, the prefs. at par at the co.’s option
after July 1, 1980, and consideration will
be cash in both cases.
The £33,939 difference between the
combined par-values of the notes and
the prefs. issued and the par-values of
the pref. shares acquired was written-
off by a transfer from reserves, along
with other accumulated intangibles com-
prising goodwill, trade-marks, etc.
In the following tables the 1956 figures
have been adjusted retrospectively to
conform with the new financial set-up:
Holedroof Industries, Ltd.
Capital— 1956. 1957.
Preference .. \ £ „ 039 955). £332 - 7 ' J 2
Ordinary .. .. \\ 1,401,571
Resenes . . 1,105,685 1,148,i>3T
Depreciation provision . . 1,401,606 1,564,358
Notes .. .. .. 338.89&
Mortgages 417,504 382,392
Overdraft _ 200,178 24,<>05
Creditors 619,290 644,591
Staff funds 15,147 14,800
Tax provision .. .. 543.067 517,054
Final dividend .. .. 110,643 95,740
_ , ~ £6,432,375 £6,460.316
freeholds 1,942,929 1,852,847
Plant, etc 1,929,392 2,091,736
shares . . . . .. 275 5 275
Debtors sale assets .. .. 173’504
***** . 1,960,139 1,931^787
lrade debtors .. .. 415,946 404,451
Intangibles 21,352 . .
£6,452,375 £6,400,316
Interest last year centred around move-
ments in fixed assets, the freehold
element of which was revalued by
£360,000 in 1954. Certain properties
disposed of during the year brought
a substantial surplus on their book-values
of £267,000, but that part of the surplus
which remains unrealised was deducted
from mortgages and accounts receivable
under the contract terms, leaving a net
figure of £173,594. A further deal
since the close of accounts com-
pletes the sale of A.K.M.’s former mill-
properties.
Plant also showed some increase. In
the knitting industry generally the
emphasis is on re-equipment and con-
solidation, except in the case of women’s
hosiery, where there is considerable
investment for the fabrication of seam-
less hosiery.
The board reports that initial sales and
earnings for the current term haven’t
suffered by comparison with those for
the corresponding period last year. How-
ever, the sharemarket for “textiles” is very
lukewarm at present and buyers are
offering ss. 6d. for the ords. for the
attractive yield of £9 Is. lOd. p.c. from a
10 p.c. div.-rate. At 18s., the 7 p.c. prefs.
seem a sound proposition with their yield
of £7 15s. 7d. On latest book-values the
two classes of shares had respective net
tangible asset backings of 9s. Id. and
£lB 13s.
Permewan Wright, Ltd.
lyrow in its 75th year, Permewan
Wright, Ltd., commenced its
corporate life as a carrier and fowardmg-
agent serving country centres in Victoria
and New South Wales. Continuing to
find its income in rural areas, the co. later
developed as a produce and general
merchant, and today trades through 41
branch-stores, of which 26 are in Victoria,
14 in N.S.W. and one in South Australia.
As might be expected, earnings have
tended to vary with the fortunes of
primary-producers, and to minimise these
fluctuations, and, at the same time,
offset a decline in sales of fodder, the
board has concentrated in recent years on
broadening the scope of the co.’s mer-
chandising activities. Particular atten-
tion has been paid to the retail, by self-
service methods in some cases, of
groceries, hardware and clothing, so that
although sales of established lines, such as
farm - machinery, building - materials,
fertiliser, etc., continue to account for a
large proportion of turnover, a greater
share of the “town-trade” is now coming
the co.’s way.
Paid capital, £700,000, is all in ords.,
the last share-issue being in 1954 when
200,000 £1 ords. were offered to share-
holders (two-for-five) at a 25 p.c.
premium.
The extremely wet weather which
affected results in the 1956-57 term gave
way, last term, to near-drought condi-
tions, and for the first time in several
years there was a reversal of the down-
ward trend in produce sales. As the retail
and general-merchandising side of the
business also turned-in improved figures,
total turnover easily exceeded that of the
previous term and, at something over
£7,000,000, was the highest yet recorded.
Group earnings of the co. and its small
offshoot, P.W. Pty., advanced by £160,189
to £1,202,162.
Although expenses, including th e
depreciation provision (up £6501 at
£36,680), siphoned-off an additional
£94,085, pre-tax earnings jumped by
almost 47 p.c., an £86,564 provision for
taxation (up £27,764) leaving net profit
£38,339 stronger at £120,468:
Parent and Subsidiary.
To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1954 ..113,296 12 p.c. = 60,000 53,296 539,382
Murray Shipping recovery, £245 .. 539,627
From tax provisions, £31,500 .. .. 671,127
Share-premiums, £50,000 ..' .. 621,127
Unexplained additions, £4133 .. .. 625,260
1955 .. 130,437 12 p.c..= 64,000 66,437 691,697
Unexplained addition, £1722 .. .. 693,419
1956 .. 103,927 12 p.c. = 84,000 19,927 713,346
Revaluation freeholds, £379,153 ..1,092,499
To contingency reserve, £10,900 .. 1,103,399
To insurance reserve, £2840 .. .. 1,106,239
Profit sale assets, etc., £2972 .. 1,109.211
1957 . . 82,129 11 p.c. = 77,000 5,129 1,114,340
Reduction revaluation reserve, £4404.. 1.109,934
To insurance reserve, £4970 .. ..1,114,904
Profit sale assets, £4390 .. .. 1,119,294
1958 .. 120,468 12ip.c.=87,500 32,968 1,152.262
The div.-rate, dropped from 12 p.c. to 11
p.c. in the preceding term, was bumped-up
to 12| p.c. to give an average rate of
11.4 p.c. for the past decade. Earnings
last term equalled 17.2 p.c. on share-
capital, as against 11.7, 14.8, 24.4 and
22.6 p.c. back to 1954.
The financial structure is sound and
comfortably liquid, but, as the board
is pressing ahead with plans for extending
the co.’s activities in the hire-purchase
field (which it entered in a small way
a few years back), term-deposits have
been sought in the current term at rates
of interest from 4 p.c. (three months)
to 7 p.c. (three years). Adequate funds
have now been obtained, mostly on a
long-term (three-year) basis:
Parent and Subsidiary.
1956. 1957. 1958.
Paid capital .. £700.000 £700,000 £700,000
Reserves .. .. 713,344 1,114,338 1,152,262
Notes . . . . 100,000 100,000 300,000
Deposits .. .. 87,255 103,024 171.327
Overdraft .. 225,817 420.744 332,639
Creditors, etc. ~ 417,348 419,775 606,373
Tax provision .. 151,498 129,051 144,350
Final div\ . . 42,000 42,000 45,500
£2,437,262 £3,028,932 £3,452,451
Freeholds, etc. . . 469,969 957,632 1,049,255
Plant .. .. 187,806 209,988 238,125
Investments ... 500
Stock .-. .. 1,039,730 1,035,343 1,171,704
Debtors . . .. 684,790 765,185 912,742
Cash, etc • 56,967 60,784 80,125
£2,437.202 £3,028,932 £3.452,451
The growth of book-debts (up £147,557)
and stocks (up £136,361) is said to be in
line with the higher turnover, £200,000
being borrowed on 8 p.c. notes early in
1957 to assist in financing this expansion
and the modernisation of freeholds (up
£91,623). The business of E. R. Leonard,
Son and Co. Pty., was acquired during
the year and merged with that of the
Bombala (N.S.W.) branch.
Reserves include a £374,749 surplus
arising from the revaluation of freeholds
(January, 1957), and at £1,152,262 provide
strong support for share-capital, each
f.-p. £1 ord. having a net tangible asset
cover of 525. lid.
An expanding retail trade in day-to-
da y necessities and the extension of
hire-purchase facilities should give earn-
ings a greater degree of stability in future
years. As against this, however, the co.
continues to draw the bulk of its income
from the primary producer or the country
centres which he supports, and earnings
must remain susceptible, to some extent,
to any slip in farm-incomes such as that
experienced in the current financial year.
At 30s. 6d. the £1 ords. would return
£8 2s. lid. p.c. from a 12} p.c. distribu-
tion.


HE HAS A
RUPTUR!
. KI T H K
WEARS A
NEO-
KAKKEKE
A'o Pad* —
A'o Springs
The nbo - BAR-
rkrk acts like
a hand wh-n
placed flat upon
the orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movement*, control
your hernia with comfort and
security. It hannot be displaced bv
\ ioient movement and has proven
completely successful by ail who
have tried it.
Write today lor Free Literature
Itarrere IHvtrihntinn I'otnnanv
T>ept. 3n, 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO VICTORENA YVONNE SHIPWAY.
—TAKE NOTICE that ARTHUR
LESLIE SHIPWAY has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1496 of 1958 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Macquarie Street Sydney
by 25th July 1958 and obtain a copy of
the Petition rvithout charge from
MOLLOY k SCHRADER, Solicitors, 149
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
1
>
Every professional
man owes it to him-
self and his family to
enquire about “Table
32.”
INCOME
PROTECTION
for
Professional
Men
PERSONAL
ACCIDENT
AND SICKNESS
INSURANCE
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD. (Inc. in Qld., 1895)
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
Western Titanium, N.L.
VIfESTRALiAN ilmenite - pro-
ducer, Western Titanium,
N.L., in its first full
year of operations (to January
31 last) mined 317,000 tons
of crude sands, of which
288,000 tons were passed
through the treatment-plant for
70,000 tons of ilmenite. A
further 19,000 tons of other
heavy minerals (rutile, zircon,
monazite, etc.) were stockpiled
pending completion of the
secondary-treatment plant.
Rather more than the
expected amount of coffee-
rock was encountered during
the first half of the year, the
ground worked being below
average value. The extraction
of heavy minerals related to
bore-values, based on the
material actually treated, was
83 p.c. and, in the circum-
stances, is considered satisfac-
tory.
Revenue from the sale of
ilmenite concentrates amounted
to £340,254, mining treatment,
realisation and overhead charges
£194,839, leaving a mine profit
of £145,415. Administrative ex-
penses swallowed-up £32,936 of
this total, and £30,000 was set
aside for depreciation, to give
a net profit of £82,479, equal
to 9.8 p.c. on the £840,000 paid
capital with which the co.
finished the term. (Another
£50,000 was added to paid
capital last February following
the issue of scrip as part con-
sideration for leases adjoining
the original holdings at Capel,
W.A. The scrip will not partici-
pate in divs. declared before
August 31, 1959.)
A maiden div., of 6d. per
ss. share, claimed the whole
of the profit and £1521 of the
£6646 brought forward from
the preceding year.
On the basis of the 70,000 tons
of ilmenite recovered, the cost
per ton of ilmenite was 555. Bd.,
excluding administrative ex-
penses, etc., mining-costs
running-out at 11s. Bd. a ton,
treatment costs at 21s. 10d.,
realisation (shipping-charges,
rail-freights, storage, etc.) at
17s. 10d., and mine overheads
at 4s. 4d. Earlier this year
ilmenite was quoted at £5-£6
a ton f.o.b. Bunbury (about
22 miles from Capel), but the
actual prices received by the co.
during the term aren’t disclosed.
To cover the excess of
capital - expenditure over
estimates and to meet the cost
of plant-extensions the board
found it necessary to ask share-
holders for £240,000 of fresh
capital last May, but, w'ith prac-
tically all of the planned
expenditure on capital-items out
of the way, finances were in
good shape by the end of the
term, current assets, including
£142,963 in cash, exceeding
current liabilities (£108,405) by
£106,785.-
Of the £86,750 of deferred
liabilities, £50,000 has been
liquidated by the issue of
vendor-shares referred to
earlier, £lO,OOO is due for pay-
ment next December and the
balance in December 1959.
Mine-property and -develop-
ment are in the accounts at
£245,525 and £45,756 respec-
tively, preliminary and share-
issue expenses figuring at
£26,996. \ •
At January 31 last ore
reserves were estimated at a
sizeable 11,000,000 tons of
heavy minerals contained in
55,000,000 tons of crude sands.
Monazite, rutile and zircon
-of marketable grades are now
in regular production, total
productive capacity being
estimated, as “long - term
averages only,” at 100,000 tons
ilmenite, 6500 tons zircon, 650
tons monazite and 400 tons
rutile a year. A considerable
improvement in the demand for
zircon and rutile would appear
to. be essential if sales of these
minerals are to make any
worthwhile contribution to
earnings in the current term,
but the co.’s production-costs
are thought to compare favor-
ably with those of other
suppliers, and the board expects
to dispbse of the output at
profitable prices.
The Federal Government
placed an embargo on the
export of monazite last year,
and, while arrangements were
made for the Atomic Energy
Commission to buy monazite
produced by east-coast beach-
miners, •no provision has yet
been made to cover Western
Titanium’s output. Discussions
between the co. and the com-
mission, aimed at overcoming
this apparent anomaly, are now
in progress.
Shipping-freights, a major
factor when competing in
European and U.S, markets,
have fallen over the last 12
months, but the market for
ilmenite has weakened some-
what in recent months and
strong competition could
confirm a downward trend
in prices. Overseas buyers took
about 60 p.c. of the co.'s
ilmenite production last term.
Nearer home, the board isn’t
too happy about the decision
of the W.A. Government to
demand a royalty-payment on
minerals won in the Capel area
or the action of the Bunbury
Harbor authorities in imposing
what in the opinion of the
directors is an “abnormally
high” charge for the use of
port-facilities.
As the announcements relat-
ing to both of these added
costs came shortly after the
declaration of the first (and,
so far, only) div., the board
may have some grounds for
suspecting that “these things
are, perhaps, indicative of
certain attitudes towards a new
industry as soon as it attains a
measure of profitability.”
Although world require-
ments of ilmenite are more-or-
less in line with production,
a steep drop in bids for the
oxide seems unlikely and, fail-
ing expansion of the Australian
titanium-pigment industry or a
greater demand for ilmenite in
the manufacture of titanium
metal, Western Titanium’s long-
term prospects appear to
depend on the extent to which
the co. can break into highly
competitive overseas markets.
Relatively low production-
costs should bd of help in this
task, but it should be remem-
bered that shipping-freights, at
present reasonably favorable,
account for over 50 pc. of the
c.i.f. price of Australian
ilmenite at European centres.
Sellers are currently asking
around 4s. 9d. for the f.-p. ss.
shares.
Mt. Morgan, Ltd.
"Dederal Government pro-
■*- posals for stabilising the
domestic price of copper (to
the producer) at £330 a ton
“will ensure the continuation”
of profitable operations at Mt.
Morgan (Q.), according to a
statement issued by the
directors of Mt. Morgan, Ltd.,
last week. Mt. Morgan’s net
earnings fell by 32 p.c. last
term . when the average price
obtained for copper sold by
the co. dropped from £470 to
£368 a ton.
There will be no interim


GENERAL MOTORS
Acceptance Corporation, Australia
( Incorporated in U.S. A.. — Limited Liability)
LOAN STOCK
NEW
£1,500,000
: ; . • • ••: - .* ■_ . ;V
Registered Unsecured
Loan Stock
PER ANNUM
m
PER ANNUM
6 YEARS
10 YEARS
Any multiple of £lOO may be Invested in any or all of the
currencies 4 years, 6 years, 10 years. GMAC, Australia has the
right to repay earlier. Conditions of repayment including premium#
are set out in the Prospectus.
NOW OPEN
Copies of the Prospectus and Application Forms available from:
BRANCHES OF COMMONWEALTH TRADING BANK OF AUSTRALIA
MEMBERS, OF THE STOCK EXCHANGES
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION, AUSTRALIA
Underwritten by
THE ANGLO-AUSTRALIAN CORPORATION PTY. LTD.
Melbourne, Sydney
Brokers to the Issue
lAN POTTER &: CO.
Melbourne, Sydney, Canberra
This is not a Prospectus and does not constitute an invitation to the public to subscribe
for the Loan Stock mentioned herein..
W4l
means of maintaining a ready
supply of the raw material.
From the seller’s point of
view London is the only
centre outside Australia in
which Australian wool is sold
under the hammer on the open
market. Despite the 12,000
miles from the producer in
Australia to London, clips may
be sold from six to eight
weeks after shipment from an
Australian port, and proceeds
are available to the grower
15 days after sale. Rapid
air-mail services and tele-
communication keep the Aus-
tralian grazier fully informed
on the offering and sale of his
wool in London.
From its original function
from 1804 onwards of market-
ing the whole of the Austra-
lian clip, the role of London
has now changed to that of
an integrated and indispensable
link in the chain of selling-
organisations which effect the
sale of the Australian, New
Zealand and South African
clips.
r With a record of 154 years
of operation in handling Aus-
tralian wool, London con-
tinues to perform its appro-
priate part in the sale and
distribution of Commonwealth
wool.
distribution in the current term,
the board preferring to wait
untih results for the full year
(to June 30) are available
before recommending the pay-
ment of a div.
Aid granted to the copper-
mining industry by the Federal
Government is to take the form
of a variable duty on imports
of copper (based price-
movements on the London
Metal Exchange) and a
bounty, subject to profit
limitations, of £45 for each
ton of copper sold on the local
market. The price of copper to
local consumers will be fixed at
£285 a ton.


MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Wellington, May 20.
/"XMINOUS statements by the
Prime Minister and other
Government spokesmen make
it increasingly plain that more
severe cuts in imports will be
provided for in the 1959
schedule, which is expected to
appear about the end of Sep-
tember.
“If any criticism can now
be made of the Government’s
decision to restrict imports it
is not that we were too severe,
but that we were too easy,”
said Mr. Nash recently.
In preparing the 1958 import-
schedule the Government
apparently assumed that export
income would be approxi-
mately the same as in 1957 and
planned to reduce imports by
something more than £32 mil-
lion, the amount of the 1957
balance-of-payments deficit.
(The exact amount of the
planned reduction has not
been stated.)
Now, however, Mr. Nash
estimates that export income
for 1958 will be £NZ4B million
less than for 1957. (This figure
seems to be arrived at by
estimating £27 million less for
wool, £l3 million less for dairy
produce and £8 million less for
meat.)
It appears obvious that
there will be a much greater
deficit than will be made good
by the £2O-million London
loan. Mr. Nash has hinted
that the Government may
borrow more / overseas.
Businessmen Bewildered
Businessmen are bewildered.
Constant warnings in broad
terms are catising a state of
doubt, nervousness and depres-
sio n, according to the
president of the Associated
Chambers of Commerce, Mr.
C. D. A. George. He has
called on the Government to
give the country the fdll facts
in clear terms.
What was the target set by
the Government for imports
this year? he asks. To what
extent was it planned to reduce
Government, as distinct from
private, imports? If it is
intended to reduce imports
further in 1959, what will be
the extent of the reduction?
How will the £2O-million over-
seas loan be used?
A burning question with
importers concerns the alloca-
tion of exchange to cover
“excess” licences. The term
is somewhat misleading.
“Excess” goods are not some-
thing additional, which
importers and the country can
really do without and which
can be put aside indefinitely.
What they really are is
explained by Mr. George.
“Excess Goods”
“Excess goods,” he says, “are
part and parcel of firm orders
placed with, and accepted by,
overseas suppliers before the
bringing-down of the over-all
import-licensing system on
January 1 of this year. They
were orders legitimately placed,
either on a free market, or in
accordance with then operative
1958 import-licences.
“With the introduction of
over-all control all these con-
tracts were interfered with by,
the authorities, which chose to
divide the goods arbitrarily
into basic and excess classes,
the latter representing the
value of the orders in excess
of the level laid down in the
reduced, over-all recast 1958
licensing schedule.
“To the extent of the
exhange-authorities that are
given to importers in respect
of the basic allowances per-
mitted them, the importers can
make part-payment to overseas
suppliers. But, while they can,
in evidence of their good faith,
also make lodgment at their
banks of N.Z. currency in
respect of the balance, they
cannot pay-off their suppliers
till the Government issues
them with authorities enabling
them to remit the actual
exchange. That exchange is
not forthcoming.
“So that, with the exception
of goods covered by on-board
bills-of-lading at February 20
last, which extended time was
some contribution by the'
Government to the problem,
overseas suppliers continue to
stand out of their money, and
will do so indefinitely, it seems.
That is bad business from all
points of view, and bad for
N.Z.’s reputation overseas.
“It cannot be said that N.Z.
has repudiated honorable com-
mercial contracts, but it is a
fact that importers have been
compelled to default at due
date for payment under com-
mercial contracts, because of
Government intervention.
such debts should
have first claim on N.Z.’s over-
seas exchange-holdings, rank-
ing equally with public debt?
If the £2O-million loan is
insufficient to enable exchange
to be issued against all so-
called excess licences, will the
Government take immediate
steps to join the International
Monetary Fund and World
Bank and borrow whatever
sum is necessary to enable us
to clear the decks, or will it
state why it is not prepared
to do that and what its alter-
native is?”
No Answer
There has so far been no
answer to these questions.
Manufacturers have been
exhorted by the Government
to increase production to
make-up for the reduced flow
of imports. . But in many sec-
tions of industry there is
concern that licences for raw
materials required to do that
will not be forthcoming soon
enough.
Some industries, according
to the president of the N.Z.
Manufacturers’ Federation,
G. W. Lane, have received
licences for only a percentage
of their raw-material imports
in 1956. Even those which
have 100 per cent, of their
1956 imports may not find the
amount sufficient for 1958,
when they have to provide for
a population which has grown
by 100,000 in the two years as
well as replace former imports.
In spite of the efforts made
by departmental officers to
cope with the thousands of
applications, there are still
many manufacturers who have
not yet received all their
licences.
It is essential that they
should know where they stand
so that a continuous flow of
raw materals can be maintained
to keep factories operating at
their maximum level.
Overseas Reserves
Overseas reserves are still
sluggish. At May 7 they
amounted to only £49 million,
against £lO3 mjilion at the
time last 'year. Since
the low point of £42 million
was reached on February 5
the recovery was only £7 mil-
lion. In the same period last
year the recovery was £25
million.
Overdrafts
Overdrafts, on the other
hand, have not shown the
reduction officially hoped for.
The Minister of Finance, Mr.
Nordmeyer, told the trading-
banks some time ago that he
wanted total overdrafts
reduced to £156 million by the
end of June. But by April 23
(the latest date for which
figures are available) they were
still £lB2 million, £l7 million
more than a year before.
The trading-banks’ reserve
ratios have been raised from
10 per cent, to 26 per cent, of
demand liabilities and from 5
per 'cent, to 10 per cent, of
time liabilities. This has been
done to force the banks to
borrow from the Reserve Bank
at 7 p.c. to maintain their cash
reserves thus giving them an
incentive to reduce overdrafts
on which their average return
is only 5| p.c. It is on the
cards that another increase in
reserve ratios may be made
soon if overdrafts do not fall
faster,
Steel Industry
The proposal for an iron-
and'steel industry in N.Z. is
premature, according to the
N.Z. Bureau of Importers. It
sees better prospects for sav-
ing overseas exchange in
building-up wheat-production
nd in developing a sugar-
beet industry,
The president. Mr. G. Jack-
son in his annual report, says
that total N.Z. consumption
of iron and steel products—
about 300,000 tons, including
P) a ‘“> sheets, rods, bars, rails,
girders, corrugated-iron and
articles manufactured from
ferrous metals—-is too small
anddiversetowarrantaniron-
and-skel^industr^fo^many
years to come Fven the™ he
says, it would‘be justified only
if a satisfactory method of
treating the titanium-bearin»
iron-sands of the west coSt
had been founS and proved
economic.
Vanished Spirits
With spirits rapidly disap-
pearing from the shelves of
hotels considerable public
interest has developed in the
possibility that N.Z. may make
its own. There is little likeli-
hood that whisky-manufacture
will be attempted, but Cabinet
has discussed an Industries and
Commerce report on gin, and
the P resident of the Viticul-
tural Association told members
at their annual meeting that
the distillation of brandy was
coming soon,
There seems no good reason
* h >'. , bo * , « ln , and . brand y
should not be produced locally
A the Government can rid
itself of fears of a vocal sec-
tion of the electorate, vigor-
oa. y °PP osed to anything
which makes the drinking of
alcohol possible,
. The Labor party as a whole
has never been very sympa-
thetic towards the desires of
the drinker. Its rather grim
attitude was typified by the
remarks of Mr. Nordmeyer
recently. He sa , d his only
itv "T - cor^
, ty wouia not go tnirsty
a "
1 h e there was so much
g > P lain water anout.


5^
A
w
/
I
... the key to
modern living!
»'\ \>l_
; i'
1
WOOL
..the key
to more
healthy
living
In every climate, hot or cold, in
every weather, wet or dry, wool
protects your health.
WOOL
.. the key
to more
comfortable
living
- Wool gives you lightness com-
bined with warmth, and softness
with strength.
Wool, the health fibre made by Nature
herself, unlocks the door to better living
for you. Most versatile fabric material
known to man, wool can be woven,
knitted or felted, giving the widest
possible variety of uses . . . from baby
clothes to immaculate suits and glam-
orous evening gowns . . . from carpets
to warm, healthy blankets and beauti-
fully hanging drapes. There is no
substitute for wool in modern living.
♦ 7
f*4
WOOL
.. the
key to
better
value
Wool resists creasing, stays new-
looking longer and gives more
wear than other fabrics.
£
A
WOOL
.. the
key to
safer
living
Wool is a flame-resistant
domestic fibre, making it the
safest fabric you can buy.
WOOL
.. the
key to
fashion
leadership
Fashion designers like wool.
It drapes better, holds colour,
line, and shape longer.
%
1
r*
PI 81
&
A
A
~:v
* ■:
Air.
Av
THERE 1$ HO SUBSTITUTE FOR
*3
.. the key to modern living


1958
WOOL ISSUE
Though Australian second-
ary industries have made
great progress since the
beginning of World
War 11, the wool industry has
maintained its place in the
national economy, and in the
matter of providing the country
with external funds it is still
without a rival.
Australia’s population early
next year should pass the 10-
million mark, a growth of
three million people, or about
43 per cent., since 1939.
The sheep-population of the
Commonwealth, now in excess
of 150-million, has shown a
similar percentage-increase in
the same time. But yield of
wool from each sheep has
caused an even higher rate of
wool - output, and prices
received for wool in most of r
the post-war period have been
well in excess of the average
index established for other raw
materials.
The wool-cheque has thus
had a profound effect on the
national economy, notwith-
standing the growth of other
industries in Australia in the
same time. Not only has
higher income from wool made
striking alterations to the rural
landscape and the financial
status of the woolgrower him-
self (without mentioning the
business-people of country
towns and cities); it has earned
most of the overseas currency
needed to supply all Australia
with necessary imported raw
materials and manufactured
goods, as well as not a few
luxuries. •
It is unquestionable that
wool sales abroad have done
much to provide Australia with
the funds required for the
import of essential capital-
goods, thus reducing the
necessity to rely on an excess of
borrowed overseas capital.
Recently wool prices in
Australia have fallen to the
lowest level for several years.
Following a bad season in
several parts of the Common-
wealth, this has been the worst
check the pastoral industry has
received since. World War II
began. But, even up ta March
31 this year, the overwhelm-
ing importance of wool in our
balance-of-payments is shown
in this summary of export
Wool and the Economy
receipts for the first nine
months of 1957-58, .compared
with the same period of
1956-57:
Recorded Exports (Excluding'
Gold).
(£ million f.0.b.)
1956-57, 1957-58,
July- July-
March. March.
Wool and sheep-
skins .. .. 364 322
Wheat and flour 69 35
Other grains .. 16 12
Meats .. .. 37 42
Butter .. .. 23 14
Cheese, eggs, milk
and cream .. 15 12
Sugar .. .. 30 33
Petroleum products 7 11
Zinc concentrates,
bars, etc. .. 8 6
Lead, pig, bullion
and concentrates 29 22
Titanium and
zirconium .. 7 6
Tron and steel .. 18 17
Vehicles and parts 6 6
Other ~ .. 93 104
Total .. .. 722 642
For the 10-months period up
to the end of April, 3,733,106
bales of wool were sold in
Australia for £297 million,
compared with 3,877,368 bales
sold for receipts of £387
million in the corresponding
period of the previous season.
This drop of £9O million in
the proceeds is partly
accounted for by the 144,000
fewer bales sold, but is due
more particularly to the fall
from 80.8 d. to 64.8 d. a pound
for greasy wool averaged
during tne 10-month period.
During April greasy wool
averaged 50.5 d. a pound,
compared with 83.4 d. in April,
1957.
Though wool has thus been
recently at its most depressed
level for nine years—partly
because of unusually poor-
quality offerings—there are
some hopeful signs, one being
the fact that the Australian
carryover on April 30 was
230,000 bales less (at 463,143
bales) than a year earlier.
One of the reasohs for the
fall in price of wool during
the present season has been
the demobilisation of military
forces in the Western world
and the planning for future
defence with less reliance on
manpower.
It can reasonably be hoped
that the 1958-59 wool-selling
season will open on a more
stable basis. In any case,
the dependence of the Aus-
tralian economy on the
' wool-clip remains abundantly
clear. The easier credit con-
ditions of 1956-57, when the
central bank thought fit to
reduce the abundant money-
supply by calling-in large sums
from the trading-banks to be
set aside in “frozen” accounts,
were largely the result of the
comparatively high price of
wool in that season, and so
was the particularly favorable
balance-of-payments.
During this financial year
the fall in the price of wool
has been a major factor in the
change in our balance-of-pay-
ments position, though other
commodities and metals have
contributed to the drop also.
But last season’s buoyant
income from wool was largely
responsible for the building-up
of reserves both internally and
abroad, and at the present time
the Australian economy is
being maintained on a fairly
even keel because part of the
proceeds of one good year have
been held in reserve to help
offset the effect of a year like
the present.
Whether woolgrowers indi-
vidually have handled their
finances in similar fashion no
doubt depends on particular
circumstances. Hardest - hit
by falling prices will probably
be those who bought a
property within the past two
years and have had little time
to establish reserves. But even
these can take consolation
from the fact that they have
bought into an industry which,
over a long period, has proved
itself to be outstandingly
suited to Australian condi-
tions,-and into which pro-
digious Australian effort and
skill have been directed.


Australia’s Wool-
Clothing 48 Countries
By T. G. CARTER.
C.8.E., M.C., Chairman, Australian Wool Bureau
Every year 95 per cent,
of the Australian wool-
clip is exported, and
during last season
(1956-57) these exports earned
Australia just over £5OO
million.
This is a remarkable con-
tribution to the £993 million
the country earned with all its
exports.
It is remarkable also because»
Australia’s 150-million sheep
last season produced:
0 31 per cent, of the world’s
wool;
# 40 per cent, of the world’s
apparel wool;
$ 55 per cent, of the world’s
Merino wool;
9 24 per cent, of the world’s
crossbred wool.
To the mills of the 48 manu-
facturing countries of the
world go 85 per cent, of the
Australian wool output in the
greasy state.
A further 10 per cent, is
exported as scoured and
bonised wools, wool-top noils
and waste, the by-products of
Australian manufacture, and
as sheepskins.
These achievements, spec-
tacular as they are, actually
indicate the general Australian
trend to vast expansion in all
fields.
I believe that the imme-
diate —and ultimate —destiny
of Australia lies in the impend-
ing pastoral development—a
development which has gained
momentum since the end of
World War 11.
In this pastoral development
wool will always have the
major say, because the coun-
try’s soil-fertility, rich inland
pastures, a climate in large
measure dry and healthy are
natural conditions for wool-
growing unsurpassed in any
other country.
There is more to Australia’s
wool supremacy, however,
than the natural conditions
upon which sheep thrive.
The skill which breeders
applied to the evblution
of the Merino types adapt-
able to wide extremes of
climate and grazing-lands
played a major role.
It is evident that wool-
production in Australia will
continue to increase because
of selective breeding, pasture-
improvement • and water-
conservation. f
A co-ordination of the
efforts of the breeder, the
scientist and the woolgrower
will send Australia further
ahead. Fleece- and flock-
measurement will bring better
and more wool per head of
sheep, and all but the driest
T. G. CARTER, who is himself well
known as a woolgrower in the Barraba
(N.S.W.) district.
parts of our inland will carry
more sheep to the acre.
No Native Sheep
The initiative of our wool
pioneers can only be appre-
ciated when it is realised that
there is no truly Australian
native sheep.
The Australian Mefino is a
sheep bred for Australia and
Australian conditions from the
best of the world’s 19th-century
breeds.
\Those early pioneers
fashioned the Merino out of
breeds of varying types to fit
the varied nature of a con-
tinent ranging from high-rain-
fall areas to almost desert con-
ditions ; from a snow-belt to
areas below sea-level and semi-
tropical climates.
A muster today would reveal
more than the official 150-
million sheep which last
season produced almost five-
million bales for auction.
In fact, last season approxi-
mately 155-millfon sheep and
lambs were shorn for an
average fleece : weight of
almost 9^lb.
Today the production of
more wool, by more sheep on
a greater acreage than ever
before, is. a partnership.
It is a collaboration of the
breeder, the wool-
grower himself,
the scientist and
also the engineer.
The breeder has
set the Merino
type, and yet he is
still striving for a
better type, a
better wool-yield
per head.
The current
Australian wool-
production per
head of sheep is
a p p r o x i mately
double that of the
world average, but
there is still room
for greater pro-
duction.
The average
fleece -weights
of approximately
B*lb. in '1946-47
have been lifted to
almost 101 b. a
head today, compared with
the world average of a
head.
Selective Breeding
And today, more than ever
before, the Australian wool-
grower is improving his flocks
and the quality of their wool
by selective breeding.
Naturally the aim of the
Merino-breeder •is to produce
wool, and, provided the quality
of wool is satisfactory, the cut
per head is all-important. It
is therefore important to the
woolgrower that he select for
increased fleece-weights of
good-quality wool.
Convincing evidence of the
effectiveness of fleece-measure-
ment as an aid to selection of
Merino sheep is available from
both the C.5.1.R.0. and State
Departments of Agriculture.
Here science has assisted
the breeder and the flock-
master in the discernment of
the best wool-cutters.
It has been found that
Merino sheep do pass on to
their offspring a high propor-
tion of their superiority in
many wool characters. Wool-
weight has been found to be
strongly inherited, as. also are
the measurable characteristics
associated with wool-produc-
tion —-such as fibre, diameter,
density of fibres, crimps per
inch, adult body-size and per-
centage yield of clean, scoured
wool.
So Merino sheep selected
for one or more of these
highly-heritable characteristics
will pass on an effective propor-
tion of that superiority to their
offspring.
The new method of flock-
testing, suitably coupled with
the accepted methods of class-
ing of sheep, can double the
present rate of improvement
in Merino-production, the
scientists claim.
These scientific methods of
fleece-measurement and flock-
testing can be used as an aid
to more accurate classing and
culling for increased yieid per
head of sheep, and per acre.
Six-Million Bales?
I believe that Australia is
on the threshold of an annual
production of six - million
bales ; and this production will
continue to increase in the
current decade.
Almost 4,900,000 bales were
sold at auction in Australia
last season. Wool sold pri-
vately and shipped overseas for
auction would raise the actual
clip to five-million bales.
This is a rise of almost a
million bales in the past two
selling-seasons—an increase
that has been evenly distributed
throughout all States.
These figures for the past
five seasons show the steady
growth of our wool-produc-
tion and point to the current


m
n
«, *
s?m
■A.
s
*
m
x*
%
Highly-skilled technical officers
specially trained in all aspects of finance
connected with the wool industry
will gladly discuss any problems
affecting your business.
CONSULT OUR WOOL MANAGERS AT
/ .
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE
BRISBANE OR PERTH OFFICES
between
' ' • • '. - ‘ v
the sheep
and the ship
the 'Adelaide"
■
operates
swiftly
in the
interests
service of
and
mt
m
(INCORPORATED 1865
IN
SOUTH AUSTRALIA WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
General Manager
ALAN A. WEST


cJ,
SYDNEY
SHEEP SHOW
28th-3lst May, at the Showground
TRY YOUR HAND AT THE FLEECE VALUE JUDGING COMPETITION
See if you can guess the value of wool on the sheep . . .
there are prizes to be won.
Come and see the Sheep Dog Trials
Sheep dog trials interest everybody and trials are being held
at the Sydney Sheep Show . . . see also the world's finest
display of sheep. See the outstanding display of fleeces and
demonstrations of weaving and spinning in the Arts and Crafts
Pavilion.
SHEEP DOG TRIALS— 29th, 30th ( and 31st May.
SHEARING DEMONSTRATIONS— 2Bth May, 2-4 p.m,; 29th May,
10.30 a.m.-12.30 p.m. and 2-4 p.m.; 30th May, 10.30 a.m.-
12 noon; 31st May, 10 a.m.-ll a.m. and 2 p.m.-4 p.m., In
the Arts and Crafts Pavilion.
SHEEP FERTILITY CLlNlC— Conducted by the School of Wool
Technology in the basement of the Commemorative Pavilion.
DOGS AND CATS SHOW on 31st May.
POULTRY SHOW on 30th and 31st May.
N.S.W. SHEEPBREEDERS’ ASSOCIATION
Adults 5/- (All Sections Except Cats). Children 2/-
Younghusband
Limited
v STOCK AND STATION AGENTS
Buyers and sellers are invited to consult our
STUD STOCK DEPARTMENT
for the selection or sale of stock.
Fat and Store Stock Sales held at Newmarket by
L. A. FAIRBAIRN & CO.
Incorporated in Younghusband Limited
Registered Office:
137 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
YOUNGHUSBAND LIMITED
Registered Office:
94-96 KING STREET, MELBOURNE.
Sydney Representative:
D. L. O’Sullivan, O’Brien House, 56, Young Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BU 6460, BU 2080. Private: WM 4 1 44.
trend for increased produc-
tion: —
mania—these stocking-rates
have been achieved.
WOOL-PRODUCTION AND VALUES.
Five Seasons.
Bales.
First-hand Total Av. price
receivals amount per lb.
into store. Sold. realised. greasy.
1952- .. .. 3,851,268 3,888,753 £404,756,387 81.80 d.
1953- .. .. 3,804,278 3,846,786 390,714.585 81.50 d.
1954- .. .. 3,926,305 3,955,476 352,691,825 70.88 d.
1955- .. .. 4,255,541 4,295,673 333,853,581 61.46 d.
1956- .. .. 4,867,300 4,886,561 482,859,860 79.84 d.
More Sheep
More sheep will be run on
Australian pastures in the
coming years, because trace-
elements are balancing mineral
deficiencies of soil considered
useless before.
Sown pastures are accepted
by the thinking woolgrower as
the obvious method of lifting
his wool-production; and
when we progress further with
pasture - management and
fodder-conservation we will see
carrying capacities rise to an
“impossible” three to six
sheep to the acre.
In some of the high-rainfall
areas of Australia the
Riverina, Victoria and Tas-
These improved pastures
bring with them additional
problems of sheep-husbandry,
to maintain the health of the
stock, but none of the prob-
lems is insurmountable.
Now, too, there is a realisa-
tion of the need for conserva-
tion of fodder. On some pro-
perties 75 per cent, of the
spring pasture-growth is lost.
However, on other proper-
ties conservation methods
have been developed so as to
utilise fully the flush growth,
and the carrying capacity on
some properties has been
greater, increased by the sow-
ing of new strains of grasses
and pasture-plants.
Add to these achievements
the momentous Mansfield pro-
cess recently announced by the
C.5.1.R.0., which cuts water-
evaporation by more than a
third —an invaluable third
when all Australia’s water is
exposed to a hot, dry heat for
many months of the year.
All this means the ability
to run more sheep per acre
on a far greater area than ever
before. Today in Australia we
graze 55-million sheep more
than we did in 1947, so that
a 200-million sheep-popula-
tion in the next decade is
more likely to be fact than
fantasy.
Diversity of Wool
But what of wool itself?
Why is it sought so universally
as a clothing and furnishing
fibre?
To start at the beginning,
wool is, in fact, one of the
most diverse of all commodi-
ties entering world trade.
It can even be argued that
every bale produced in this
country is different from every
other in some x respect; for
instance, there are differences
in fibre - diameter, length,
color, presence or absence of
burr, uniformity of growth,
yield and so on.
The differences in these
characteristics are obvious to
a trained wool-man, and are
most pearly apparent to him
when the wool is in the greasy
state.
This diversity of wool is
exemplified by the fact that
during the war-time scheme of
acquisition of the Australian
clip over 1500 types of wool
were distinguished, and even
for current statistical purposes
the Wool Statistical Service of
the Australian Wool Bureau
is able to find some 2900-odd
separate pigeonholes for classi-
fying the five-million bales of
greasy wool in the clip.
Further, it should be
emphasised that this. is only
a classification v of readily
distinguishable differences, and
each of these separate classi-
fications undoubtedly com-
prises a range of minor
variations.
Because of this diversity of
types only the woolbuyer him-
self can decide which lots of
wool are capable of meeting
the uses to which his clients
wish- to put them ; and the
demand for the various types
of wool sets the price to be
paid for Australian wool at
open auction.
Australia’s Wool Customers
An important development
of recent years has been the


NOW — A Fountain Pen
that BREATHES
_ the wonderful NEW
Onoto 99
Instant Starting ... No Flooding
No Leaking ... No Drying Up
The new Onoto "99” starts writing the instant
its nib touches paper. Thanks to a special
“breathing” system, the ink flow is perfectly
controlled always, giving you fast, smooth, clean
writing all the time.
—and a choice of nibs to suit
your hand exactly
There’s an Onoto "99” nib to suit every stylo
of writing from finest to broadest. And because
the nib'unit is easily changed the one
that suits your hand exactly can be
fitted right at the counter where you
buy. See the new Onoto “99”
at any good store.
M ID
wart
gift
sfts
On
New "Breathing"
Fine tube inside
barrel feeds air,
controls ink
flow exactly.
New Filler
Concealed filler
trigger. Easy to
use. Quick, posi-
tive action.
onoto
In Black, Blue,
Green, Maroon or
Grey. Gift Boxed.
Other Onoto Pen«
from . , .... 28/6
PENS, PENCILS
BALL PENS
Manufacturers: Norman Baker & Longhurst Pty. Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne
fc.0.85
gradual entry into our local
market of new purchasing
countries.
Mexico, for instance, now
buys substantial quantities
direct from the Australian
auction-floor; Turkey and
Yugoslavia have taken to buy-
ing more greasy wool direct;
and this trend in the develop-
ing economies is further exem-
plified by India, and also by
China, which over recent years
have been growing buyers for
our scoured wool and wool-
tops.
The United Kingdom, which
takes 25 per cent, of our clip,
has always been the main
destination for our greasy
wool, and her purchases range
over the. whole of the types
comprising the clip.
Next in line comes Japan,
which last year took 20 per
cent, of our raw wool and,
in addition, was a substantial
buyer of our tops and wastes.
France is our third-best
customer, and is also, with her
highly specialised' fellmonger-
ing industry, the buyer of
80 per cent, of our sheepskin
exports. The other Continen-
tal countries —Italy, Germany,
Belgium, Poland and Czecho-
slovakia—are all important
purchasers, taking between
them a further 25 per cent, to
30 per cent, of the clip.
But the list by no means
ends there: in the 1956-57
season no fewer than 48
different countries bought
direct from Australia.
It is natural, then, that the
wool-consumption of these
countries has a vital effect on
the Australian wool economy
and, in fact, the entire Aus-
tralian economy, which depends
so greatly for its favorable
trade-balances on the annual
overseas earnings of wool.
Because of growing popula-
tions, improved standards of
living and the improving
economies of underdeveloped
countries the use of wool
throughout the world continues
to rise.
The Commonwealth Econo-
mic Committee estimated
world wool-use during 1957
at a record 2855-million lb.
(clean weight), with Italy (27
per cent, up) and Japan (9 per
cent, up) as the most outstand-
ing increases of the year.
The 1957 total for France,
Japan and possibly Western
Germany set new records
in each case ; and consumption
in the rest of the world is ten-
tatively estimated to have
risen by about 1 per cent,
compared with 1956.
Wool Promotion
Whilst it is difficult to gauge
the effects of publicity, pro-
motion and advertising on the
consuming public of the world,
I believe that wool has, in the
past 20 years, been continually
pushed ahead by the promo-
tions of the International Wool
Secretariat overseas, and the
Australian Wool Bureau
within Australia.
The need for wool-promo-
tion can be simply stated. No
product, whatever its quality,
could survive long in the face
of the intense competition of
today without skilful sales-
promotion and merchandising,
So why not wool- promo-
tion? After all, wool is by
far Australia’s biggest single
unit of mass-production. And
because it is a primary product
there’s-no reason why it should
not have the benefit of proved
business principles for expand-
ing and assuring demand.
Post-war trends in fabrics
have made the need for inlen-
sive wool-promotion all the
more necessary,
Today wool-fibre has
many competitors, and if the
unparalleled qualities of wool
are not kept before the public
it could suffer a serious set-
back as a clothing-fibre,
Frankly, I believe that the
woolgrowers of Australia
showed great foresight when
in 1936 they first put their
hands into their pockets to
finance wool’s fight for
bigger markets.
Australian woolgrowers first
(Continued on page 62)


A Crucial Episode In Wool History
The Day of the Saxon
By M. H. ELLIS
THOUGH much has been
written about the intro-
duction of the Merino
into Australia, very little
Pas been recorded about the
fierce controversies which
marked the evolution of types
in the very early days of the
fine-woolled sheep.
The first Merinos were, of
course, brought by Captain
Waterhouse, R.N., in the little
H.M.S. Reliance from the
Cape of Good Hope in 1797,
MERINO TYPE, 1800
This was the Merino type at the
time of the introduction of the pure
breed into New South Wales, as
shown in C. P. Lasteyrie’s work on
The Introduction of Merino Sheep
Into the States of Europe and the
Cape of Good Hope (English
edition, 1810).
The numbers show, the Spanish
Merino classification of wool on
the sheep’s body: (1) the rafino, the
very best wool from the withers,
back, rump, lateral parts of the
back, the sides and shoulders.
(2) Fino, from the thighs, belly and
and from those and from the
importation, in 1805, out of the
English Royal flock at Kew
arose the wool-sheep industry.
Other sheep had been
brought here before, but they
were mainly of a type about
which the less said the better,
for nobody could say any
good of either those from the
Cape of Good Hope with the
First Fleet in 1788, or of those
in the Gorgon in 1791, or
from Calcutta later,
All who mentioned these were
somewhat at a loss for adjec-
fives. They were typical Asian
a nd African sheep. They had
“large tails thinning out at the
enc j where they slightly turned
up ” Their frames were rough-
hewn, with as little meat as
Nature could pack on them.
Their coarse wool, one
authority wrote, “resembles the
bristles of a pig.” Crossing with
upper part of the neck. (3)
Tercero, on the cheeks, throat,
breast and upper part of the fore-
legs and lower part of the thighs.
(4) Cahida, on the upper part of
the head, tail, breech-dags, etc., and
stray locks.
The small drawings show the
Spanish method of earmarking and
branding with Roman figures burnt
into the ear. The flock-mark was
burnt-in on the right ear; the lamb
also was marked with the sire’s
number on one ear and the dam’s
on the other.
the odd English and Irish sheep
brought in by occasional ship-
masters made little impression
on their fleeces. v
The first Merinos, therefore,
were an innovation of the
highest interest to discerning
farmers. Their story is now
well known. They came from
the estate of Colonel Gordon,
who had been Dutch com-
mandant at the Cape of
Good Hope, and whose family
was well known to officials of
Botany Bay. Some were sold
to a local Dutch breeder. The
rest, through the good offices
of Lieutenant-Governor King,
of Norfolk Island, later
Governor of N.S.W., were sent
out to Sydney.
The Dutch Merinos
'"THERE has always been some
-®- dispute as to whether these
were pure Spanish Merinos.
The ones sent to Australia
had certainly been bred in the
Cape of Good Hope. They
are described as large-bodied
and “Spanish,” but nobody has
a word to say about their
immediate origin.
The most probable hypothesis
is that they reached the Cape
from Holland, for Holland
had had its Spanish sheep for
nearly a decade when Gordon
died. According to the French
writer Lasteyrie, quoting Lord
Somerville, the first Merinos
sent to the Cape came in the
ship-of-war Chameau in 1782.
The original Van Renen blood
came aboqt that year from
Holland, whither it had been
sent by the King of Spain from
Estramadura. To the Nether-
lands from Spain came two
rams and four ewes —in 1789,
after the break-up of the great
Escurial stud and the ending
of the mesta system of sheep-
walks under which sheep were
grazed in Spain. The importer
was Mynheer Twent.
Twent kept his Merinos
between Leyden and the
Hague at Raaphoelt in country
fn which there were sandy
downs, scant herbage, with a
little interspersed forest and
coppice. By 1795 he had 200
animals, and his rams were
supposed to be yielding 91b. to
121 b. of fleece in the yolk and
breeding-ewes 61b. to 91b. Two
other Dutch farmers, Cuperus
and Kops, whose farm was near
Haarlem, obtained Spanish
stud-rams and bred them with
the local Friesland and Texel
sheep with some success, pro-
ducing good fine wool and big
bodies. It seems undoubted that
the Waterhouse sheep which
came to Australia were bred
from the stock of ope of these
Dutch strains.
On them were imposed the
blood of the Royal sheep from
Kew imported in 1805, and
that of numerous but isolated
rams brought in over the next
decade by various breeders.
The rams from Kew had
come from stock obtained by
Sir Joseph Banks direct from
Spain for King George 111. A
great song has been made about
the genius of the great man
who succeeded in persuading
Spanish Royalty to sell these
treasures, but the fact is that
it was not difficult to obtain
sheep from Spain after the
liquidation of the Royal flock
and the mesta system, as is
proved by the Dutch and other
European importations.
These then were the strains
which bred the first Australian
wool of any importance: the
first to attract the admiration
of the British market in the
Pure descendants of the original Camden Park flocks.
The resemblance to the Spanish Merino outlined above
is still quite pronounced.


NOW ! A SHEEP FEEDER that has every feature YOU want. •
THE NEW
LYSAGHT
DUAL FEEDER
for feeding hammer-milled chaff and grain
. . . mixed or separate
080
Inset below shows
the heavy gauge
mesh baffle which
hotds chaff but
allows free access
by sheep.
r- ..
■
Here at last is a sheep feeder
that has all the features you have asked
for the Lysaght Dual Feeder. This new feeder
will feed mixtures of grain, hammer-milled chaff
and hay, without bridging or blockage. To feed grain
only, you simply re-position two baffles.
Constructed of steel throughout for years of
trouble free service, the Lysaght Dual Feeder has
many outstanding features which include Full 50
Bushel capacity wide awnings and end baffles for
complete weather protection of feed trays heavy
duty skid base with through towbar for multiple
towing link mounted weatherproof lid for effort-
less opening and closing. These features and tyiany
others are illustrated at right.
By installing Lysaght Dual Feeders on your property
you will cut time and costs in hand feeding and
enjoy freedom from worry, knowing that you have
the finest Sheep Feeder available today.
FULL CAPACITY
50 BUSHELS
PRICE:
F.O.R. NEWCASTLE
Kits are available to convert your present
LYSAGHT SHEEP SELF FEEDER
If you already own a Lysaght
Sheep Self Feeder, order
the Special Conversion Kit
that is also available. Simple
and easy to install, it brings
your Lysaght Sheep Self
Feeder right up to the
minute.
PRICE: F.O.R.
NEWCASTLE
£l2
Profile Drawings below show the unit
ready for Chaff feeding & Crain feeding
1(1) Stiffening on
filling edge.
(2) Grain Baffles
stored inside
feeder when used
as chaff feeder
allow feed to flow
freely.
(3) Wide Awnings
ond End Baffles
give feed tray
maximum protec-
tion against wind
and rain.
(4) Heavy gauge
mesh baffles hold
chaff allow
free access by
sheep.
(5) Heavy Duty
Skid Base.
11
(6) Link mounted
lid. Can be open-
ed and closed from
one side.
(7) Lid securely
closed with twin
tower bolts.
(8) Awning rigid-
ised by ample sup-
ports.
(9) Crain Baffles
re-positioned for
grain feeding.
(10) Wide Tray
minimises
wastage.
(11) Through tow
bar for multiple
towing.
Write for further information to:
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD. in all Capital Cities of
LYSAGRT'S WORKS PTY. LIMITED, NEWCASTLE WORKS
SF49AC
23 years . during which the
fleece industry was in its
infancy. The heart of the
business and technique of wool-
raising during the whole of “that
period resided on the Mac-
arlhur estates at Elizabeth
Farm, at Parramatta, where the
pure stud-sheep were kept, and
at Camden Park, where the
grown flocks were managed on
the basis of an orderly method
described in a book by
Lasteyrie of which an Englisii
edition had been published in
1810-
This is provable by the fact
that the division of flocks
followed the method described
in this slim volume, as did the
identification - marks through
which each flock of 300 carried
its own brands and earmarks,
and progeny was marked on
one ear to denote the sire, and
the other the dam, so that the
descent of all sheep was
recorded on the animals them-
selves.
It was at the great Garrard
sales of 1821 that the London
market was tested for coloriial
wool, with startling success—
a triumph for the Macarthtirs,
whose fleeces sold up to 10s. 3d.
a pound and set every wool-
grower in New South Wales
striving for quality and fine-
ness, most of them hitherto
having looked on mutton as
their prime consideration, the
normal rough, crossbred fleece
being worth little more than a
shilling a pound in the London
market.
Enter the Saxons
TT was round' about the time
•f of the Garrard sale, too,
that the woolgrowers first saw
their opportunity of learning
a developed technique instead
of inventing one.
Though Spain had been the
centre of woolgrowing, little
was known outside of its
methods. Though both breed-
ing- and classing-standards
there had made some headway,
the Spaniard was not anxious
•to teach any potential rivals.
However, a school was now
discovered which had improved
on the Spanish methods: the
Royal Saxon breeders,
Saxony had begun to breed
Merino wool in 1765 - many
years before the Dutch. In
a spate of goodwill after the end
of the Seven Years’ War, the
King of Spain had been moved
to send his cousin, the Elector
of Saxony, 100 Merino rams
and 200 ewes from the famous
Escurial flock. Their quality
was guaranteed, since he
adjured the majors of his
mestas to pick his best sheep,
their inducement to care being
a stern promise of 15 years’
hard labor if they failed in
the task. 'A further consign-
ment was sent three years later.
The first flock was takeh
to Stolpe, near Dresden, and
kept pure, and three other
flocks were established at
Rumsdorf, at Lohn and at
Hohenstein. By 1778 Stolpe had
3400 pure sheep of which 500
were sold annually to farmers.
Generally speaking, iat this
stage the Saxon wool was
shorter and the fleece lighter
than in Spain. In the early
years of the 19th' century
the average cut per sheep was
about 2ylb.
At the same time Spain still
held almost a monopoly of
the European export-trade—•
which was not very large and
(Continued on page 60)


PASTURE IMPROVEMENT
AND THE SHEEP INDUSTRY
By C. K. YEARS.
Principal Agronomist, Pastures, Department of Agriculture, N.S.W.
THE past decade has
witnessed a change in
the agricultural pattern
of N. S. Wales which
tnay prove to be as significant
in the national economy as the
invention of the combined
harvester or the introduction of
the Merino. This change has
been the marked trend towards
the establishment of sown or
“improved” pastures.
Up to about 1947 the area of
pasture actually sown in N. S.
Wales was approximately 11-
million acres, and it had
remained more-or-less static
at that figure for a number of
years. By 1957 the area had
increased to approximately
7f-million acres (the Govern-
ment Statistician’s figure of
9-million acres includes some
14-million acres of naturalised
pasture).
This remarkable increase
—greater both in actual
area sown, and on a percentage-
increase basis than in any other
State —has been influenced by
a variety of factors, including
economic and climatic
influences, but it can be stated
emphatically that pasture-
research by the C.5.1.R.0.,
the Sydney University and
N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture has greatly facilitated
the development. In many
cases the establishment of satis-
factory pastures would have
been impossible without the
knowledge gained by this
research.
Farmers’ Interest
Of possibly equal importance
has been the changed outlook
of farmers towards the sowing
of improved pastures.
Until comparatively recently
pasture - improvement was
regarded by many as the
prerogative of the fortunate
farmers situated on the more
fertile soils and in the good-
rainfall areas. Now, however,
farmers and graziers in all parts
of the State and on farming
land of all types and grades of
fertility are seeking advice on
pasture - improvement. The
question is not “Can 1 estab-
lish improved pastures?” but
“How can I establish inv
proved pastures?”
A further significant change
has been the attitude
towards the pastures them-
selves. Farmers are ceasing to
regard pastures as something
attributable to a benevolent
Providence and are tending
more and more to give them
the care and attention previ-
ously reserved for the more
conventional crops. Grass is
truly coming to deserve the
title of the world’s greatest
crop.
As indicated, the interest of
farmers in the potential \)f
A fertiliser trial at Tenterfield on a soil low in phosphate, illustrating the need to ensure
that the phosphate status of the soil is adequate before using gypsum instead of
superphosphate. The centre lot received sulphur in the form of gypsum. The plots
on each side received phosphorus as well as sulphur fertiliser-treatment.
N.S.W. “Agricultural Gazette.”
improved pastures has been the
motivating force in the develop-
ment which has taken place.
The economic and climatic
conditions have provided a
favorable environment, and
research has shown the way.
The keen interest of farmers
has resulted in a desire to
establish pastures under a wide
range of soil and climatic con-
ditions, and this, together with
the fact that N. S. Wales has
been passing through an intense
developmental phase, has
resulted in the emphasis in
pasture-research being placed
on pasture-establishment —•
more particularly on pasture-
establishment in difficult
environments, especially where
soil-fertility is concerned.
Soil Improvement
Australian soils generally
suffer from two basic defi-
ciencies phosphates and
nitrogen. The former defi-
ciency is readily and economi-
cally rectified by applications of
superphosphate, but “bag”
nitrogen is expensive, and its
application to pastures, except,
in special circumstances, of
doubtful economy. Australian
agrostologists and research-
workers are therefore keenly
interested in legumes, both
because of their high nutri-
tional value and as a source
of nitrogen. Legumes have
the capacity to “fix” atmo-
spheric nitrogen and make it
available for plant-growth.
Without adequate nitrogen,,
pastures are of poor color, of
low feed-value and are unpro-
ductive.
A considerable volume of
research has therefore been
devoted to legumes,-- because
their satisfactory establishment
and growth, and their adequate
contribution to the soil-nitrogen
status depend on a number of
factors.
f Th u e nut , ritional requirements
the plant must be met.
Under N. S. Wales sod condi-
tlons th,s entails applications
of Phosphate, sulphur and, in
some areas, possibly potash,
zinc and boron. The clover
(legume) must be infected with
an effective nitrogen-fixing
bacteria (rhizobia). This in
turn means that a suitable
organism must be present in
the soil, or else must be intro-
duced with the seed. If thus
introduced, precautions must
be taken to ensure that the
rhizobia are not killed during
the sowing, or die because of
an unfavorable environment. It
is also essential that rhizobia
be supplied with the essentials
necessary for the fixation of
nitrogen to proceed.
A somewhat formidable list,
but research over recent years


FUTURES AS
PRICE
PROTECTION
Wool growers who took advantage of the high price of futures on the London
Wool Futures Market during the oft season last year (July/August, 1957) and
sold futures contracts as an insurance against a fall in values-during the current
selling season were able to meet the falling market with its lower values when
their clips came to auction and offset the low wool prices by buying back their
futures contracts at correspondingly lower prices, which showed them
approximate profits or savings as set out below:—
Futures Profit as per lb. greasy.


PORT LINE LTD.
Regular Sailings—Fast and Modern Vessels.
Taking Wool, Refrigerated and General Cargo to United
Kingdom, American and Canadian Ports.
Limited number of passengers carried.
..
Wm
M i
I
mm.
AGENTS—
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Brisbane, Newcastle, Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Fremantle and Hobart.
A. G. WEBSTER & WOOLGROWEBS LTD., Launceston.
AUSTRALIAN ESTATES CO., LTD., North Queensland ports.
Head Office in Australia:
PORT LINE LTD.
(Inc. in England )
50 Young St., Sydney.
New Zealand: Maritime Building, Wellington.
for maximum control of
m
in sheep off all ages . •
First of the liquid, phenothia-
zine drenches . . . tested and
checked over many years’
Australia-wide use .... Elliotts
PHENZEEN PLUS en-
sures the fullest effective
control, the greatest con-
venience in drenching,
that can be achieved with
phenothiazine.
DRENCH WITH
Elliotts ■
tee
If you prefer
POWDER . . . order
Elliotts PHENZEEN (Pheno-
thiazine Powder) in the
samef fine particle size, sup-
plied in cans, ready-to-mix.
ELLIOTTS RURAL LABORATORIES
A DIVISION Of DMA (CH IMICALS) PIT. LIMITED
has shown how alt of these
requirements can be met under
most conditions.
Research Results
Most difficulties are likely to
be encountered on acid soils.
In these the correct rhizobium
is unlikely to be present (the
soil environment is unfavor-
able to it), and therefore all
precautions must be taken to
ensure a satisfactory legume-
establishment. The seed must
be inoculated with rhizobia,
the inoculated seed must not
be mixed with superphosphate
before or during sowing, and
the soil-reaction must be cor-
rected, at least in the vicinity
of the seed, to ensure survival
of the rhizobia.
The adverse effect of the
superphosphate can be elimi-
nated and the soil environment
in the vicinity of the seedling
can be corrected by using a
50-50 mixture of agricultural
lime and superphosphate.
Under average soil condi-
t:ons 1 cwt. or 2cwt. v of super-
phosphate is enough to satisfy
the nutritional requirements of
the pasture, but on poorer soils
as much as 3cwt. and 4cwt.
may be required to overcome
the low phosphate-status of
the soil.
One of the most remarkable
changes in agricultural practice
has been that of lime-usage.
This has been in two direc-
tions: firstly, a much wider
use of lime ; secondly, applica-
tions at a greatly reduced rate.
The use of lime had for
many years been based on
the textbook conception of the
effect of lime. On this basis
recommendations were in the
order of half-a-ton to a ton
per acre. This was no doubt
beneficial, but, because of high
cost, little pasture-improve-
ment was attempted in areas
where such dressings appeared
necessary.
Research in recent years has
shown that the chief effects
of lime, at least under N. S.
Wales pasture conditions, are
that, applied to acid soils, it
improves the environment from
the viewpoint of rhizobium
survival and this assists in
nodulation; also, that heavy
dressings of lime release for
plant-use molybdenum which
may be present in the soil
in an unavailable condition.
Molybdenum (deficient in
many soils of the Southern and
Central Tablelands and all
coastal districts) is an essential
plant-nutrient, but is also of
major importance in the
nitrogen-fixation process. With-
out an adequate supply of this
mineral, legumes are unable to
perform the primary functions
for which they are now included
in pasture mixtures.
It has now been conclusively
demonstrated that these im-
portant effects of iime earn be
obtained by dressings of the
order of 2cwt. per acre applied
in close proximity to the seed,
or, in some circumstances, even
21b. or 31b. applied in the form
of a coating on the legume-
seed, together, where neces-
sary, with an application of
2oz. molybdenum per acre.
This research has paved the
way for large-scale pasture-
improvement in areas where,
previously, it was economically
difficult, if not impossible. The
fundamental research in this
field was done by C.5.1.R.0.;
the demonstration of the field-
application of the results and
determination of their scope
in terms of area and soil types
was the work of the Depart'
ment of Agriculture.
Legume Values
Another field of research
which has had far-reaching
effects has been the study of
legume rhizobia. In most
countries legumes are regarded
as essential components of a
pasture because of their high
feed-value and their ability to
raise the nitrogen status of
soils, and so improve grass both
in quantity and quality. The
latter function of legumes has
largely been taken for granted,
and it has been assumed that
because legumes were growing
reasonably well they were fix-
ing nitrogen. This has been
shown to be far from the case
in many instances. Legumes
may be unnodulated and, liv-
ing on the soil-nitrogen in the
same way as other plants, may
be nodulated by an inefficient
strain of rhizobium, which
possibly fixed barely sufficient
nitrogen for the growth of the
plant; or they may be nodu-
lated by an efficient nitrogen-
fixing strain which provides
adequate nitrogen for the plant
and a surplus for the nutrition
of the associated grasses in the
pasture. It is only in the last
case that a vigorous pasture
will develop.
If there is any doubt as to
the existence of the correct
strain of rhizobium in the soil
it should be introduced with
the seed, taking the various
precautions mentioned.
It might truthfully be said
that, except in cases where un-
alterable conditions—e.g., rain-
fall and soil-structure—have
been limiting, no soil so far
tested has failed to react satis-
factorily to the correct com-


.
■ »
m
m
■ '
m '
A view of some of the hundreds of bins containing Pooled
Wool in a Grozcos Wool Classing and Pooling Store «
ISegt" Kega/ifc
Use the GMZCOS POOL
SUCCESSFUL wool pooling demands the best in store
** facilities and a large volume of wool.
Grozcos has the facilities. The Company's wool stores
are spacious and well lit under natural daylight conditions.
These conditions enable our expert classers to prepare
your wool to best advantage.
“DON'T WORRY—I’M SENDING
IT TO GRAZCOS"
Each year Grazcos receives wool
for classing and pooling from thousands
of growers.
To get the best returns for your
oddments of woo/ consign them to
Grazcos at Sydney, Newcastle or
Brisbane.
GRAZ COS
CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED
HEAD OFFICE: 46 YOUNG STREET, SYDNEY
NEWCASTLE OFFICE & WOOL STORE: CENTENARY ROAD,
BRISBANE OFFICE: CNR. ADELAIDE AND CREEK STREETS.
bination of the above factors
—that is, the supply of adequate
amounts of phosphate and
sulphur per medium qf super-
phosphate, together with effec-
tive measures to ensure nodula-
tion with the correct strain
of rhizobium and the efficient
functioning of the nodule.
Thus the technique of
pasture-establishment from the
viewpoint of the nutrition of
the pasture has altered from
the sowing of seed and fertiliser
predominantly superphos-
phate—to a technique of some
complexity. However, this com-
plexity is more apparent than
real, as commercial interests
have followed the research
programmes very closely and
farmers are able to buy
molybdenised superphosphate,
50.- 50 lime - superphosphate
mixtures both with and with-
out molybdenum, and lime-
coated legume seed, and the
process of seed inoculation has
been facilitated by the pro-
duction of reliable peat inocu-
lants.
Better Grasses
Although recent pasture-
research has been concentrated
to a great extent on the estab-
lishment phase, other aspects
have not been entirely
neglected.
A casual study of pasture-
statistics shows very plainly that
the greatest development has
taken place along the Table-
lands and on the Central and
South-western Slopes. This is
no doubt due to the greater
reliability of rainfall in these
areas and to the fact that
pasture-improvement has, in
the main, depended upon
winter-growing species which
are not generally suitable to
the northern portion of the
State, except under conditions
of some elevation. The search
for, and the development of,
pasture-ispecies more suitable to
this part of the State and to
the drier areas generally has
been an important avenue of
research.
One result of this research
was the release of Barrel
Medic 173, a superior strain
of barrel medic. This strain,
developed by the C.5.1.R.0.
and Department of Agri-
culture in co-operation, has
the generally recognised
characteristics of the annual
medics, produces a good bulk
of green material, and is a very
heavy producer of burrs which
are of great value as summer
feed in dry areas. It does not
result in burry fleeces, as the
burrs have short spines and
any which cling to wool usually
drop within a few hours.
A number of grass species
have also proved extremely
promising, and the production
of sufficient seed for wider-scale
testing and commercial sowings
is noin progress.
One of the most promising
grasses is a South African
strain of buffel-grass, and the
department has recently secured
a small bulk of seed of this
strain from South Africa which
should expedite its release for
commercial use 4
Another introduction of
potential value is Columbus-
grass. This perennial grass,
which is the result of a erbss
between Sudan-grass and John-
ston-grass, is already being
used by some farmers. The
department has been unwill-
ing, to recommend this grass
because of the impossibility of
distinguishing its seed from that
of the weed-species of John-
ston-grass. However, breeding-
work at Grafton Experiment
Farm should result in this diffi-
culty being overcome shortly.
In view of this, further trials
with Columbus-grass are to be
made to determine its regional
adaptation,
Fertiliser Facts
The nutrition of the estab-
Ashed pasture, pasture-manage-
ment and pasture-utilisation are
fields requiring extensive in-
vestigation.
During the year 1955-56 some
210,000 tons of superphosphate
were applied to more pastures.
On the basis of approximately
7,700,000 acres of sown pasture
this represents an average over-
all usage of about 601 b. per


m
*
$
Well be pleased to see
You at the Sheep Show
Full banking facilities will be provided by
'an Agency of the Commonwealth Trading
Bank during the Sheep Show and subsequent
Auction Sales.
The Agency will be located between “B”
and “C” pavilions, near the Judging Ring.
As an added service to country visitors,
Mr. J. L. Bedford, Manager of our Guyra
Branch, and members of the Bank’s rural
technical staff will be available at the
Agency to discuss any aspect of banking,
finance or special features relating to the
wool industry.
You are invited to make full use of the
facilities available.
A. N. ARMSTRONG, General Manager. '■
COMMONWEALTH
TRADING
BANK
acre. However, out of the total
area of improved pasture only
about 4,000,000 acres were
fertilised at the average rate
of a little over lcwt. per acre.
When it is realised that over
the greater part of N/S. Wales
superphosphate is essential to
the maintenace of an improved
pasture, that where clover-
dominance is a problem heavy
applications of superphosphate
are essential in overcoming
this, and that the production of
a pasture is invariably corre-
lated with the amount of phos-
phate supplied, it is obvious
the potential of even our
limited area of sown pasture
is far from being attained.
Trials conducted by the
N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture lend emphasis to this
statement. At Tumut an appli-
cation of 2cwt. of superphos-
phate to a perenniahrye-white-
clover pasture resulted in twice
the yield obtained from lcwt.,
4cwt. of super, again doubled
the yield, and Bcwt. gave a
further increase equal to that
resulting from the 4cwti appli-
cation.
At Shannon Vale Nutrition
Station the effect of increasing
phosphate applications has been
studied in terms of stock-
carrying and wool-yield, and
the following results were
recorded:
Wool
Fertiliser Sheep yield
application. per acre. per acre
lewt. 1.38 11.041 b.
2cwt. 2.51 20.08 ”
3cwt. 3.95 31.60 ”
Converted t@ £. s. d., using
as a basis £l5 per ton for
superphosphate and 7s. per lb.
for wool, the increased return
per acre from 3cwt. super-
phosphate was £5 4s. Od. greater
than that obtained from lcwt.
The nutrition of the estab-
lished pasture is therefore a
most important and wide field
for investigation. Superphos-
phate has been widely used in
Australia because of the
phosphate-defic,iency of our
soils, but it has been realised
comoaratively recently that the
sulphur component of the fer-
tiliser is, in many instances,
equally important to the phos-
phate. This, together with the
knowledge that phosphates tend
to accumulate in the soil while
sulphur doesn’t, has stressed the
difference in the nutritional
requirements of an established
pasture as compared to those
of a young pasture or establish-
ment. The sulphur story may
well be regarded as the intro-
duction to a new phase of
pasture research and manage-
ment.
In Tasmania and Victoria the
need for potash-dressings to
maintain old pastures is further
evidence in the same direction.
Up to the present potash has
not been needed to any extent
in N.S.W., but any failure of
pasture to respond to the
normal maintenance top-dress-
ing should be regarded as a
pointer to a possible potash
deficiency.
As already mentioned, clima-
tic and other influences have
greatly facilitated the pasture-
development which has taken
place in recent years. These
factors also complicate any
attempt to accurately assess
the effect of the development
in the sheep and wool industry.
The better-than-average sea-
sons, together with the reduced
rabbit - population resulting
from myxomatosis, have so
influenced stocking capacity
that variations in stock-num-
bers .throughout the State can-
not be correlated with any
single factor. In addition, any
assumptions based on statistics
must take into account the gen-
eral increase in stock-numbers
throughout the State during
the mid- and late-’forties fol-
lowing the losses resulting from
the drought of 1943-44. It also
must be realised that, despite
the rapid progress which has
been made in pasture-improve-
ment, the present area of sown
pastures represents but a small
fraction of the grazing-land of
the State.
Department Trials
The value ot pasture-
improvement can therefore
only be assessed in terms of
the results obtained on indivi-
dual properties and in depart-
mental investigations.
One of the earliest depart-
mental trials designed to com-
pare the production of sown
pasture with that of natural
pasture in terms of stock data
was made at Trangie (N.S.W.)
Experiment Station. Here the
“natural” pasture was old
wheat-land which had been
allowed to revert to pasture.
The results obtained were out-
standing in that the sown area,
following grazing by an uncon-
trolled number of stock during
the establishment period, car-
ried an average of 3.6 sheep per
acre over 24 months, in addi-
tion to which pasture-hay cuts
amounting to 2 tons 18 cwt.
per acre were obtained.
In comparison the area of
naturally regenerated wheat-
land carried 0.5 sheep per acre
over the same period. Data
from such experiments may be
open to some criticism because
they are based on complete
utilisation of the pasture. How-
ever, the economics of pasture-
improvement depends in no
small measure on the extent to
which the pasture is utilised,
and such experimental results
can therefore be regarded as
indicative of the potential of
improved pastures under good
management. Results approach-
ing those quoted have also
been obtained in paddock-scale
trials made in - co-operation
with farmers and on a farm
basis.
The most accurate “whole-
farm” data available is un-
doubtedly that from the Shan-
non Vale Nutrition Station.
This property is situated on
the relatively low - fertility
granite country of the eastern
fall of the New England
Tableland —country which was
regarded as totally unsuitable
for breeding and on which
heavy body-weight losses and
high winter-mortality due to
malnutrition were regarded as
inevitable.
Following attempts to im-
prove winter-nutrition by such
(Continued on page 84)


Throughout Australia, throughout the Years,
a WHEREVER SHEEP GRAZE
AJAX WOOL PRESSES HAVE GIVEN SPLENDID SERVICE TO THE WOOL GROWER
EVERYMAN’S WOOL PRESS
AT LESS COST THAN THE MORE EXPENSIVE SINGLE BOX WOOLPRESSES
a-:
IS
THE AJAX MAJOR
Two Box ALL STEEL Woolpress
Already acclaimed by many hundreds of Australian
graziers from two to twelve stand sheds. You will be
proud to show the good heavy square bales from this
press. (One man, 35 to 45 bales per day ; two men, 65 to
70 or more.)
O Completely Portable on its own Two Wheels.
Q New Patent Hoist for Effortless Lifting.
O Captive Monkey always in top box Eliminates
Lifting.
O New Two Speed Action on Roller Hearings
Faster and Easier Pressing.
FOR EASIER, FASTER
ONE MAN PRESSING
THE AJAX MODEL B
Inbuilt Hoist Eliminates Man-handling
of Monkey. By the use of a compression
spring-catch the monkey is caught and held fast
in the top of the framework; when it is returned
over the press, the monkey sits some 10 inches
above the edge of the box. This allows extra
topping-up of wool —three or more fleeces each
time.
Longer Handles for Greater Leverage.
Three foot handles have taken the place of the
normal two foot handles for the purpose of the
easy swinging of the monkey out of the press.
3
AJAX
THE FIRST CHOICE
FOR YEARS OF MANY
THOUSANDS OF
AUSTRALIAN SHEEP
FARMERS
f.
, ; •
'
? m
"* -
>
/
Ask Your WOOLHOUSE or MACHINERY MERCHANT
AGENTS IN ALL STATES
Manufacturers and Patentees: DONALD PATENTS LTD., 390 GLENMORE RD., PADDINGTON, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


RUST ON
The end of the line.
There was some talk a
while back in The
Bulletin about old
Wewak (New Guinea)
as a free-and-easy outpost.
Strike me roan! Twenty-five
years ago you only had to head
for a township within (hard-
working) crow-flight of the
Bully office.
In case radios, refrigerators,
planes, and motor-scooting
boundary-riders have wrought
kavoc with the local viewpoint,
I’ll call the town Taialba.
End-of-the-line towns, where
there’s sometimes rust on the
rails between trains and where
roads fan-out into stock-routes,
have a character all their own.
Taiajba could be anywhere in
the world where men have
gone for gold and grass. It
just so happens that the miners
and the herdsmen have put it in
Australia.
The train seemed to rattle
across a lot of meridians and
parallels on the long run out.
After a night and an intermin-
able hot day the passengers
lolling in our dogbox were
truly of the terrain. The lush
coast had faded to a matter of
desultory reminiscence. You
could almost see the curve of
the earth on these horizons. A
sheepman and a dog-poisoner
were discussing the dryness of
the passing plains and the dry-
ness of their throats when the
last whistle blew and along
came Taialba.
Setting sun slap-bang against
frame-buildings resting on the
red earth*, lighting old slag-
heaps and mining wreckage.
Lighting the weathered faces of
the welcoming Taialbans.
Out in the sunset a red-and-
green desert sky. Beyond the
town and the mine-scars the
long white grass, red earth, and
the greyness Of wilga and
mulga. The air crackling dry
and the colors aboriginal-raw.
To a hawk the town would
be a scatter of kid's blocks on
the vast, dry plain. Close up,
the main street was like a Holly-
Died in the dust.
wood western set. An old town
with a temporary look, flung
on the plain , in the gold hey-
day, weathering the sun and the
red dust into the sheep era.
Retaining frontier free-and-
easiness and a gold-digger view
of things.
Outside a two-story weather-
board hotel the proprietor
rested a fat rump against the
hitching-rail ancl watched the
sundown drinkers crushing in.
“How goes it?” said my
guide.
“Crackin’ hardy, Con,” said
the fat bloke with publican
humor.
Inside, a thermometer said
110 degrees, and a tank-sinker
said, “Been waitin’ around for
you, Con. Heard you were due
back.”
“Same arrangement, Bill?”
“It’ll do me. Be out there
alt yoked up and ready in a
week. Don’t worry—just havin’
a week’s breather.” Business
was not a matter of offices and
desks in Taialba.
“Meat, Peter,” was Con’s
order in the cafe. Out in ten-
acres-to-the-sheep country meat
doesn’t mean mutton. After a
brace of ste,aks we picked-up
the kangaroo-car and turned
onto the track that led 30
miles west to the station. Past
a formidable pile of discarded
kero-cans and dead marines.
On into the warm dusk and
the mulga.
The kangaroo-car was an
ancient Maxwell. Everything
superfluous ripped off in hunts
through the scrub. Mudguards,
hood, windshield and paint
long departed. Windshield
stanchions still standing, and
useful hand-holds for the
passengers at- speed across-
country. Con said the car
could still do 40, about ’roo
and emu speed.
“Main thing about chasing
’em,” he said, “is to pick solid
stumps from rotten ones.” By
the look of the old car she’d
struck a few of the solid variety.
The kangaroo-car figured in
one of the incidents that make
Taialba stick in the memory.
We drove into town one night
and were travelling slowly
through the dark main street
when a citizen lurched away
from his veranda-post and fell
under our wheels. He was
pressed firmly ipto the thick
red dust and lay there inert.
“Don’t let anyone move
him,” said Con, and drove off
at ’roo-speed for the doctor.
About a dozen other unsteady
citizens emerged from the
shadows and stood around the
victim. Headlights appeared at
the end of the street.
“The doc!” said one and all.
It turned out to be a drunk-
in-charge- who bowled the
bunch over like ninepins and
brought down a pub veranda-
post before calling it a day.
I knocked-up a nearby chemist,


who kept an interim eye on
things. Moans and curses in the
darkness. Then more head-
lights, lighting up the scene.
“How many did you say?”
from a very startled doctor.
“It looks like a bloody field
dressing-station! ”
Nobody seriously hurt!
END-OF-THE-LINE towns
attract end-of-the-line men.
Paglio—we'll call him Paglio—
had taken part in a city armed
hold-up where there’d been
some fatal shooting. Then he d
given information to the police
and headed for the wide open
spaces. Taialba seemed safely
distant from the bullet with his
name on it, and Taialba seemed
to need a greengrocer. Paglio
certainly needed Taialba.
Paglio was a good business-
man. He put on weight and
began laughing again. Here
was a good new life. Safe.
Soon he bought a smart new
truck for deliveries. Sometimes
he took a whole load of stuff
out to one of the big stations.
Returning from one of these
trips at night Paglio turned the
truck over and was killed
instantly.
Another end-of-the-liner had*
been in the State Taxatioh'
Department in the city. Some-
thing went wrong and he
drifted out to Taialba, where he
set-up as stock-and-station
agent and tax-consultant. In the
following two or three years he
got the wealthier Taialbans so
many tax-rebates that the town
swore by him and bought
him many drinks during his
periodical benders. Then came
an investigation and heavy
fines all round. The consultant’s
popularity waned to a remark-
able degree. One client shaped-
up and threw punches. Another
indulged in shooting-talk. But
eventually he was forgiven and
allowed to carry on.
Taialba treated erring
brethren with admirable
tolerance. A fairly formidable
widow and. her two sons ran
a smallish holding. The trio
faced a charge of stealing lambs
from a large adjoining station.
After some fiery challenging
a jury was empanelled'.
Police evidence was that the
lambs found in the widow’s
care had, when given the
opportunity, romped back to
the plaintiff’s ewes amid loud
baas of mutual recognition. A
pretty sound case anywhere but
Taialba. “Not guilty,” said the
jury. When the magistrate
recovered his composure he
acquitted the accused, and
directed that the lambs be
returned to their rightful owner.
And when one of the most
popular and obliging men in
town, the postmaster, was
found to have been a bit short
in the till Taialba merely raised
its eyebrows slightly, brushed
the red dust from its whiskers
and had another drink. With
WOOL ISSUE FEATURE
JACK LUSBY
the money, restored and the
postmaster again a free man,
he was given the - managership
of a firm reopening a local
mine, and continued to hold
his own with head unbowed in
Taialban society.
On rising ground adjoining
one of Con’s boundaries was
Bennie’s place. Bennie was a
wiry, jockey-sized eccentric who
still lived in World War I. He
had strong binoculars and a
.303 and was a dead-shot.
Normally the only water for
a hundred miles round Taialba
was in the tanks,, so any duck
in the area had perforce to land
on them. If Bennie spotted
duck on any of Con’s tanks
within binocular-range he’d
take action. He'd spread-eagle
on his belly, snuggle up to his
jeloved .303, take aim, often
at extreme range, and splat ! —
a bullet bang on Con’s tank
would send the birds rocketing
in search of a safer haven. On
these occasions they’d usually
settle on one of Bennie’s tanks.
Then Bennie would put aside
the .303 for the 12-gauge and
have duck for supper.
The birds preferred Con's
tanks as first choice—they were
bigger. One tank, within
cooee of Bennie’s boundary,
was their favorite. It even had
reeds and a ducky look about
it. Coaand I were down there
in the reeds one afternoon, all
set for a change of diet, when
Bennie’s bullet damn’ neat
splashed water in our faces.
TTARRIGAN was another
neighbor. Harrigan went
to the city and borrowed
heavily from a wool firm,
promising a record crop of
lambs.
The lamb-crop fell so far
short of record figures that an
inspector from the wool firm
travelled to Taialba and called
on Harrigan. Harrigan pointed
dramatically at the vast blue
sky above.
“See those black specks up
there, circlin’ around?”
The city man squinted up and
sure enough discerned some of
specks.
“Every one a wedgetail
eagle,” Harrigan said. “And
every one eats a lamb a day.
Never been so many eagles!”
The inspector cranked his
head back and stared into the
blue.
Con.
{Continued on page 71)
“Count ’em,” said Harrigan,
“and work out the losses for
yourself! ”
The inspector arrived at a
vague but catastrophic figure
and took himself off, full of
sympathy for Harrigan’s battle
with adversity.
Hearing on the party-line of
this adroit parry, Con indulged
in some explosive comment on
Harrigan’s honesty.
“The eagles are living strictly
on rabbit!” he declared with
conviction. Then he went out
in the yard and squinted
thoughtfully into the hot blue
void, eyes following the slow
majestic sweep of the wedge-
tails. Con had a fresh crop of
1500 lambs . . .
We spent a full day pains-
takingly fixing eagle-traps with
lamb bait, and a week attend-
ing them. The traps were
simple affairs. Two mounds of
Drought-tortured box.


ROCKWOOD
MERINO STUD
Reg. Rockhugh Flock No. 1201
Classer: A. A. WATSON
ROBUST - BIG FRAMES - PLAIN BODIES
MEDIUM STRONG WOOL
Bred in the NORTH-WEST under typical PADDOCK CONDITIONS,
these Rams come to you ready for immediate use.
RAMS READY FOR DELIVERY
Delivery on trucks STAMFORD, PRAIRIE, or within 70 miles of
ROCKWOOD.
Inspection Invited—lnquiries te
THE MANAGER. ROCKWOOD, HUGHENDEN
'Phone 12 U Tangorin or Any Agent..
CROSSBREDS ON THE BORDER
By "PAT O'DAY"
ALBURY,' the border-city
between N. S. Wales
and Victoria, a distance
of 350 miles from
Sydney and 260 miles from
Melbourne, has its own wool-
auctions, and thousands of
bales of wool (particularly
Crossbred) pour into its various
large wool-stores each season
from both sides of the border,
Very many big Merino-
clips are sold at Albury each
year. With Deniliquin (on the
plains—mostly Merino country)
140 miles away, Gundagai’s
sou’-west slopes 109 miles,
Wagga (Riverina’s capital) 77
miles, and other big districts in
the area, the number of bales
of Crossbred wool seem to out-
weigh in prominence the
Merino clips. ,
The Victorian districts, such
as Hamilton, Beechworth and
Wangaratta, are Crossbred
centres, with Geelong to the
forefront in Merino-Jambswool.
The Corriedale sheep, with
its 50-56 fineness, very distinct
crimp, creamy-white wooi,
texture soft and full, and
grouped in the “shortwools”
class, promises to become the
outstanding sheep for the
smaller properties (up to
2000 acres), as far as monetary
return is concerned, in the N. S.
Wales and Victorian border
country.
Properties surrounding
Henty, Culcairn and Holbrook
(N.S.W.) are concentrating on
the Corriedale, to attain frame,
breed-out of coarseness that
will inevitably occur, and bring
into the picture a fine-wool type
of Corriedale that will compete
with the Merino in Sydney
and Melbourne markets.
Newmarket sheep - market
shows the grip that the Corrie-
dale wether is getting An the
meat industry, though the heavy
Dorset wether looks so attrac-
tive at the sales after under-
going all the rigors of trucking,
dogging and test of stamina that
the Corriedale men say they
will have to look to their
laurels to compete in the “fat”
pens as far as their offerings are
concerned.
A seller at Newmarket gave
some information about the
Mallee country, from which
he came. The good, firm, loamy
country of the Mallee is pro-
ducing splendid lucerne crops,
thousands of acres of this Vic-
torian country growing lucerne
from 9in. to Ift. high, particu-
larly after the recent rains.'
~ This man’s property of
3000 acres'is»carrying, without
any trouble, 1000 breeding-
ewes. He possesses a large area
of good fallow, and last year’s
stubble-land is suitable for
this year’s seeding.
In the Murray-Mallee district,
results of four years’ trials to
discover which trees grow best
in the low-rainfall areas
revealed that over 90 shade-
trees are now thriving at the
departmental research-centre at
Wanbi. Many thousands of
sheep will have the advantage
of such shade-trees as Native
Oaks, Olive (African Olive)
Aleppo Pine, Carob, Pyramid-
tree, Black Tea-tree and several
varieties of eucalypts and
acacias (including Myall and
Umbrella Wattle).
The Corriedale is being run
in a number of stations to the
north of the border-country of
Albury ; and, travelling back
from the border-city to
Riverina, in a northerly direc-
tion, it is particularly noticeable,
on inspection of the sheep, both
in the saleyards and on the
properties, how the genuine
type of Corriedale sheep is
being retained- —even at the
expense of heavy culling—for
wool-fineness, and size of
frame for breeding in the year-
and-a-half to two-year ewe.
On one particular property,
renowned for its management,
two distinct joinings of the
Corriddale-ewe portion of the
flock are made as follows:
(1) In one flock the ewes are
selected for wool quality, such
as long staple, dense and bulky,
50-56’s, evenness and good
frame ; the pick of the flock
are joined to pure Corriedale
rams to conform to wool
standard desired in the progeny.
(2) The second flock of ewes
are joined then with Polwarth
rams. There is very little cull-
ing of ewes in this flock, except
in cases of abnormality, when
they are not retained. Though
the flock will invariably be a
mixed lot,, and some classed
as culls, the result will be a
nicely framed lamb, with im-
proved wool from 64’s Polwarth
type in favor.
Some other Corriedale sheep-
breeders in the district strive
to retain wool- and mutton-
sheep on a fifty-fifty basis, and
do not allow the wool to run
too fine (finer than 56’s), and so
lose the frame.
The ewe lambs on the
Corriedale stations are in-
variably retained for breed-
ing the next year. The Corrie-
dale-Polwarths are a particu-
larly fine type of ewe, and are
outstanding, even as weaners, in
any saleyArd, and are scarce
to buy. This type may yet
prove a complete solution for
the “small’’ grazier-farmer who
likes to see one complete line
of sheep on his property, and
that line fit to meet any
competition.
Graziers, on both sides of
the Murray, seeking Corriedale
ewes at Yarrawonga and other
Victorian markets, favor a
Corriedale - Merino-cross ewe
of about one-and-a-half years,
and preferably August-shorn.
Eleven - thousand sheep were
cleared to graziers in this
connection, as they wished
to restock with the surety of a
fair season. An unjoined ewe
was mainly the requirement,
and £5 16s. 6d. per head was
paid willingly at Yarrawonga.
New South Wales demand
for the Corriedale ewe was
shown at Young (south-west
slopes) lately when the amazing
amount of £17,500 changed
hands when the sheep
sold were. 5000 two - year
Corriedale ewes, dry, shorn
August, at 725. each. It was
remarked to me by a couple of
Well-known graziers at the sale
that, in full wool, these Corrie-
dales, “if wool ‘stays put’, could
easily bring up to £5 a head.”
(Continued on page 85)


A place for
EVERY fleece...
and EVERY fleece
in its place
This man knows wool ... his skill
and judgment in handling
every fleece ensures that your
wool sells at its true value
I!
Mjh
J ih
m
■y
-
A
L-gfecS;
r.i
Jess
M
s»
4 k
w 9 “»*
He’s a man who has spent his life in the wool game, developing
skill and judgment to ensure that your wool sells at its true
value.
He is one of the reasons that you will find your neighbour
recommends the Jimac Wool Pool . . . there is a bin for every
type, and our classer is one of a team of true “professionals”
who put that little extra into their jobs so that wool prepared
for our clients brings the maximum return when sold through
a broker.
Mm
WOOL POOL
BRIDGLAND BROWN PTY. LTD.
174-190 DOWLING ST.. EAST SYDNEY, and HANNEL ST., WICKHAM, NEWCASTLE


The Romance of the Murray
By JEAN B. DAVIES
*|~| hou art indeed a
trusty knave! ” roared
JL the customer at the
bar of a Swan Hill
hotel as a brimming pot of
beer was put down before him.
Nobody looked surprised: it
was April, 1958, and the
Murray River town was in the
throes of its annual Shak-
spearian festival, organised by
Swan Hill National Theatre.
To first-time visitors to the
festival the way in which Swan
Hill changes its character is
amazing. One moment the
long main street is lined
with parked cars of Saturday-
morning shoppers late
models, long and glossy, that
are the outward visible signs
of the solid wealth of the
district. Then the shops close,
the cars disappear, and the
town steps back into a Shak-
spearian age.
The festival begins with a
street-procession, led by a
larger-than-life model of a
white swan, and a model of
Anne Hathaway’s cottage,
which was constructed in the
first year of the festival by local
students. On the floats which
follow are tableaux from plays
of Shakspeare, in which the
characters are people from dis-
trict sheep-stations, cattle-
studs, fruit-blocks and local
business-houses. Then come
the morris-dancers, the horse-
men and the bands, to lead, in
Pied Piper fashion, the crowds
to Riverside Park and an Old
English Fair,
r T'HE River Murray is at its
A tamest where it winds its
leisurely way through the
park, in a' setting somewhat
resembling Stratford-on-Avon
itself. Green lawns edge its
banks, rose-gardens are primly
enclosed within clipped hedges,
Only the huge old gums that
line the river and the faintly
dusty tang of the red pepper-
trees of the north give an Aus-
tralian emphasis to the scene,
Open-air theatres, maypole-
dances, puppet-sh#ws and de-
corated stalls keep the fair and
its patrons in carnival mood
until late at night. The festi-
val lasts for several days, its
highlight a stage presentation
of one of Shakspeare’s plays
by members of the Swan Hill
National Theatre. Play-read-
ings are held, special films are
shown in the local cinema, and
a costume-ball winds-up the
celebrations.
Through the National
Theatre at Swan Hill and its
annual Shakspearian festival
the people of the Murray have
a knowledge and love of the
Bard probably unique in Aus-
tralia. The founder and co-
director of the Theatre Move-
ment is Mrs. Marjorie McLeod,
whose amazing energy seems
to be constantly flowing out in
different directions to add more
variety and impetus to the
cultural life of the district.
Swan Hill people are proud of
her accomplishments. When
something is thought impossible
they are apt tp say, “Leave it
to Marjorie ; she can do it.”
As well as attracting people
to the theatre from surround-
ing country properties Mrs.
McLeod has strong support
from her townspeople. Fel-
low-director of the theatre is a
former mayor, Duncan Doug-
las ; president is David
Chisholm ; both are business-
men. The honorary secretary
is Mrs. R. Mannix, who, with
her husband, conducts a hair-
dressing salon in Swan Hill.
When wool went down the Murray by steamer.
Steamboat Bill
CJWAN Hill has its monu-
ments to visionaries of
earlier years who made their
dreams come true. At the
river end of the bowling-club
garden is an ocelisk on which
several important dates are
inscribed. One ‘marks the
arrival of tne first Murray
paddle-steamers at Swan Hill
in 1853. Plenty has been heard
of Steamboat Bill of the Missis-
sippi. But few know the story
of Australia’s Steamboat Bill —
William Richard Randell—
whose navigation of the
Murray opened-up its roaring
river-trade.
A testimonial to him from
the public hangs in Mannum
Town Hall. In the recreation-
grounds of the South Austra-
lian town is the boiler from h.s
first paddle-steamer, Mary
Ann. His story is a colorlul
one, stamped all through with
his absorbing love of the
Murray.
He was a boy of 13 when his
parents, William Beavis Randell
and his wife, Mary Ann, arrived
with their family in South
Australia in the first year of
its foundation,' uprooted from
their comfortable Devonshire
home by the glowing reports
of the colony by George Fife
Angas, of the South Australian
Company.
Mrs. Randell has been
described in records as' a
delicate woman, used to every
comfort. The two women-
servants who accompanied the
family married almost as soon
as they arrived, leaving Mrs.
Randell to cope as best she
could. Her first home was a
tent. All cooking was done on
an open fireplace outside, with
an umbrella held aloft when
it rained.
Delays in the arrival of sflips
from England meant near-
starvation. Flour was often
exhausted long before fresh
supplies came. But Mrs.
Randell determinedly made her
home with the endurance
and courage characteristic of
our pioneer women.
Her first real home was
Kenton Park, around which the
town of Gumeracha sprang up.
A curious and romantic story
has drifted down the years of a
vivid dream her husband had
before leaving England: of a


AUSTRALIA IS A
DEVELOPING COUNTRY
m
m
f.O: ¥'
mm
i i *
r
At
, ■'
W !>•#>
y * <* !
■■ : ::
m
JfT: ;■&+■>
fc&Xv_<~
Translated into simple terms, Australia’s increasing
-population and expanding economy means more mouths to
feed, more people to clothe, more jobs and positions to fill,
more opportunities for greater production of Australian-
made goods.
In the past .The National Bank has been closely associated
with industrial development in Australia, and by an
expansion of its own services and facilities will, in future,
co-operate just as closely.
THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
(Inc. in Vic.)
Head Office: 271 -279 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
London Office: 6-8 Tokenhouse Yard, LONDON. E.C.2.
Agents throughout the world. ,
5M3/7J/J*
wide river flowing between tall
and strange trees. Some time
after his arrival in S.A. he was
out riding and came on the
very spot of his dreams. He
bought the land and built
Kenton Park, to which he im-
ported from England all kinds
of trees, shrubs, deer, pheasants
and peacocks. Before long a
lovely English garden sprang
up on the banks of the Torrens,
to remind him of his beloved
Devonshire.
William Randell had no such
hankering after an English
countryside. The Australian
bush held a fascination for him
from the beginning, and from
his first sight of the Murray
the great river stirred him. He
was full of admiration for
Captain Sturt, who had made
his expedition downstream in
an open boat many years
before,, and the idea of placing
steamboats on the river became
almost an obsession with him.
From all accounts, his father
scoffed at the idea, but William
clung to his dream. He knew
little of boats or their engines,
but later on, in the flourmill his
father had established at
Gumeracha, he learned some-
thing about engines, and by
1852 was busy with carpenters
building the frame of his first
small steamer. It had to be
carted over the ranges and
across the Murray Flats to be
assembled at Mannum.
Called Mary Ann after his
mother, the boat cost William
Randell £lBOO to build. Her
cargo capacity was 20 tons,
and she. was propelled by an
8 h.p. engine. The boiler was
made in the shape of an iron
tank, and records describe the
alarming fashion in which it
swelled when speed was
clapped-on. Even when safety-
chains and wooden wedges were
wrapped around its middle, the
boiler still bulged in and out
like a concertina when at
maximum speed.
The maiden voyage of the
Mary Ann was made from the
mouth of the Murray at
Mannum to Goolwa, where she
was enthusiastically greeted
by Lieutenant - Governor
Young and the residents.
After an unsuccessful attempt
to reach Swan Hill in
March, Randell tried again in
August, 1853, when the river
was higher. By this time the
S.A. Government was offering
a bonus to the captain of the
first steamer to navigate the
Murray from Goolwa to the
Darling junction. At this
stage the dashing and adven-
turous Captain Francis Cadell
comes into the picture. In the
Lady Augusta, a more power-
ful and faster boat, he overtook
Randell, reached Swan Hill
three hours before the Mary
Ann, and collected the bonus.
Bacon for Fuel
The achievements of Cadell
and Randell were hailed with
enthusiasm by the settlers of the
Murray and likened by the
more romantic to the
quest of the Golden Fleece.
There was good reason for the
comparison. Many of the
squatters had actually decided
to abandon their sheep-runs
because of the difficulties and
high costs of transporting their
wool to the port by bullock-
wagon. The river-steamers
offered quick transport and a
cargo-charge little more than
half that of the-road.
Great competition sprang-up
as more artd more men started
plying up and down the
Murray, and a brisk Trade
developed. The first steamer to
arrive at>a sheep-station would
get the prized cargo of wool.
Many exciting races were run —
in one of them Randell’s fire-
man threw slabs of bacon into
the furnace to gain a little
more speed. Another time
Randell's boat was well in
the lead, with his goal in
sight, when an overhanging
tree ripped off the funnel. His
pursuing competitor passed by
with loud cheers from all on
board.
The river exploits of Randell
were mentioned in a speech in
Dublin in 1863 by an ex-
Governor of South Australia,
Sir Richard Graves Me-
Donnell, who said it appeared


TIE WIRE-NETTING
GERRARD
AUTOMATIC
RING FASTENER
GUN - - - 60/- each
GALVANISED FASTENERS
_____ 11/- per 1000?
(djfiujiu J9d *spA si)
-AVM ASVI SIHI
/vs fast as you can squeexe If*
easy-working handles, this self-
feeding gun effortlessly clamps the
S,aP ' eS int ° StUrdy 1 in ' rin9s - which are automat!-*
tally ted into the jaws. There is no wastage—the job is quick, neat and strong.'
Available from ALL WOOL HOUSES and
GENERAL STORES
Manufactured by Gerrard Engineering Pty. Ltd.. 18 Ireland St., W.
ME.
Ring Fasteners are sold
in packets of 1000
from indubitable evidence that
he was the first navigator of
the Murray in a steamer. He
was not merely the first to
start, in the frail steamer he
built himself, but he had got as
far as Echuca. Some of the
steamers later owned by
William Randell were Gemini,
Bogan, Bunyip, Ariel, Nil
Desperandum, Corowa, Wara-
gery, Tyro, Ruby and Mannum.
On the death of his father
William Randell went to-live
at Kenton Park, but he missed
the sight of his beloved river,
and at every opportunity he
would go back to Mannum
and the docks.
Historic Tyntynder
A/fANY romantic stories have
been told of Captain
Cadell. He was a seagoing
cs :>tain, and when he first
started out from Swan Hill to
survey the Murray his boat,
Forerunner, was made water-
tight in novel manner. “We
clapped the frying-pan on the
fire, and after cooking our
mutton-chops gave the boat a
coating of tallow grease,” he
reported.
The captain left the Murray
after some years for fresh
adventure. There was a violent
ending to his colorful career.
He was murdered when pearl-
fishing on the north-west coast
of Australia.
'THERE are many references
to the paddle-steamers in the
records of Murray sheep-
stations. The settlers, delighted
with the new mode of trans-
port, treated the captains and
their crews handsomely.
Historic Tyntynder (meaning
“flight and twitter of birds”), a
few miles from Swan Hill, was
a popular station on the
steamer-run. In an account of
a voyage of the Lady Augusta
from Goolwa to Gannewarra,
1400 miles from the mouth of
the Murray, the gardens of the
station with their English trees
are described as refreshing to
eyes fatigued by the monotony
of the gums.
Tyntynder was first estab-
lished by the Beveridge
brothers, whose holding was
exceptionally large, even for
the early days. Shortly after
they settled there Andrew
Beveridge was speared by
blacks. His grave is on the
station ; the marble headstone
was sent out from Scotland by
his parents.
The reduced holding of Tyn-
tynder has been in the Holloway
family for many years, and a
visit to the old homestead is a
joy to anyone with an appre-
ciation of pioneering days.
The present owners, Mr. and
Mrs. Ross Holloway, have made
the best of two worlds. The
kitchens and bathrooms are on
modern lines, but the rest
of the house remains much
the same as when it was first
built of timber brought from
England, bricks burned on the
spot, and plaster made from
crushed mussel-shells. The
inner covering has been stripped
from the dining-room walls and
the golden texture of the old
logs shines in the light. The
drawing-room has retained the
graciousnesss that it no doubt
had when the lady of the
house dispensed hospitality
to Burke and Wills before they
left Victorian soil on their fatal
expedition in 1860.
The wine-cellars were turned
into a museum recently, and
aboriginal weapons and relics
of pioneering years are stored
there. In the garden by the
Murray a fish-pond 'is edged
around with stone on which
aboriginal emblems have been
carved by Ross Holloway, who
strives to retain as much of
the earlier atmosphere as
possible.
Many present-day settlers
remember native King Billy,
claimed to be the last ruler of
the Swan Hill tribe. Of many
legends of the tribe that have
been handed down, one
accounts for the bare shores of
Lake Boga. A gin had put her
tiny baby on the warm sand
of an island in the lake. A
large eaglehawk swooped,
picked-up the infant in its talons
and flew with it to a nearby
tree. Attempts to rescue
the baby failed, and the bird
killed it. The headman of the
tribe had the tree felled and
towed downstream. He then
cursed the lake and ordered
that no trees should grow there
again.
As well as being enthusiastic
patrons of Swan Hill National
Theatre the Holloways keep-
up the old tradition of Tyn-
tynder. There are always house-
guests there during the festival,
and they often include visitors
from overseas, who find their
romantic conception of Aus-
tralia fully realised at the old
station.
It Wasn’t Easy
Pioneer larmers of the
Murray were men of character
who, with their womenfolk,
faced great hardships. There,
shearers’ wives played their
part in the development of
the wool industry, keeping the
farms going during their men’s
absences. In his poem
“Shearer’s Wife” Louis Esson
tells of their daily round:
Before the glare o’ dawn I rise
To milk the Sleepy cows, and shake
the droving dust from tired eyes.
I set the rabbit-traps, then bake
the children’s bread.
There’s hay to stook, an’ beans to
hoe,
Ferns to cut in the scrub below,
Women must work when men must
go
Shearing from shed to shed ....
In a diary he kept at Murray
Downs station Mr. Suetonius
Officer mentions working by
moonlight until 3 a.m. and
starting again at 6 a.m. Mr.
Officer was a pioneer in irriga-
tion, and from the river-water
established fine gardens at the
homestead, to which he brought
orange-trees from the famous
groves of Jaffa in Asia Minor.
Long before Mildura was
thought of the Murray Downs
oranges were famous.
Mrs. Officer, a daughter of
Rev. Dr. Adam Cairns, was
born at Fife, Scotland. There
was little scope for talented
women in the lonely station
life of the early years, but,
like Mrs. Holloway, she was
responsible in jnany ways for
fostering a strong cultural
appreciation among Murray
settlers. This was in a great
measure responsible for the
present-day enthusiasm for the
theatre and the strong support
(Continued on page 72)


Hi
■I
m
G°°
A.jy^
Buying or Selling STUD STOCK?
Take advantage of the facilities of A.M.L.&F.
Australia-wide connections plus the facilities of offices in
London and Buenos Aires place A.M.L.&F. in a position
to bd of great service to the buyer or seller pf stud
stock. A.M.L.&F. experts attend all sales and will be
pleased to act on your behalf. A ’phone call to A.M.L.&F.
will bring sound advice on all matters relating to stud stock.
Telephone: BW 8931. Telegrams: “AMLANDFCOY .”
For after-hours service please ring:
H. A. (ALF) GIBSON, WM 2667; A. E. (TED) GOODE, LB 6729
AM-14-94
BRANCHES & REPRESENTATIVES
THROUGHOUT NEW SOUTH WALES,
VICTORIA & QUEENSLAND
&
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE, LAND & FINANCE CO. LTD.
in Eng. 1863)
4 Bligh Street, Sydney


THE PORT OF LIVERPOOL
s?§
m
m
m
In /.
K
#>/5
■
r~
:wm
:w
-• :^4
s
WM
<'<?
mum
Herbert R. Young
Australian and New Zealand Representative
MERSEY DOCKS AND HARBOUR BOARD
19 Bridge Street, Sydney
SHIP VIA LIVERPOOL
Prompt despatch Rail, Road or Canal
Great Work by C.S.I.R.O. —
Advances In Wool-processing
Striking advances over
the past two decades have
established a wide range
of man-made fibres which
present an increasing threat to
the prosperity of the wool
industry.
The vast research resources
of modern chemical industry
are behind the development of
these new fibres. The United
States, Great Britain, Western
Germany and Italy, for
instance, are together now
spending more than £15,000,000
a year on research aimed at
improving those fibres already
in production and turning-out
new and better ones.
The total annual world
expenditure on wool-textile
research is probably less than
£2,000,000. Opinions may
differ on the seriousness of the
more immediate threat to wool
of man-made fibres, but there
can be little doubt of the long-
term result if such a vast dis-
parity in research-expenditure
continues.
Research extending over
many years has undoubtedly
played a major rple in lessen-
ing the cost of production and
improving wool quality. Better
nutrition through improved
pastures, improved methods of
selection, and more effective
control of disease have all
contributed to these gains.
But research on the wool-
processing side has not been
commensurate with the serious-
ness of the threat from syn-
thetics. It was not until 1949
that the C.5.1.R.0. established
wool-textile research labora-
tories at Sydney, Geelong, and
Melbourne. These labora-
tories have research pro-
grammes designed to achieve
more understanding of the
chemical and physical charac-
teristics of the wool-fibre, and
already have made important
contributions to techniques of
wool-processing and wool-
man ufacturei
Geelong Laboratory
As a textile raw-material,
wool has several drawbacks
not possessed by its newer
synthetic competitors. The
Geelong laboratory is attempt-
ing to overcome these dis-
advantages. y
For instance, wool comes to
the manufacturers contamin-
ated with impurities such as
brands, burr and dirf, v which
must be got rid of before pro-
cessing can begin. Also, unlike
most synthetic fibres, wool is
liable to breakages during
spinning and- weaving. Other
major defects are its tendency
to shrink on washing and its
susceptibility to attack by
moths. It is essential that such
defects be overcome because
they place wool at a definite
disadvantage in competition
with synthetics.
Wool, of course, has many
advantages not possessed by
any of the synthetic substi-
tutes, and the laboratory aims
to make the most of such
features wherever possible.
The affinity of wool for dyes,
for instance, is one of its
advantages over synthetics,
and j-esearch to increase this
superiority is most desirable at
the present stage of the fight
between wool and its com-
petitors.
Progress has been made by
the laboratory in several phases
of textile-research. These
include degreasing, moth-
proofing, improving branding-
fluids, and shrinkproofing.
Mothproofing
Satisfactory methods for
permanent mothproofing of
wool have been available for
some time. The cost of treat-
ment —3d. per pound of wool
—has probably been the main
reason why they have not
been used more extensively.
Inquiries by the C.5.1.R.0.
officer -in - charge (Dr. M.
Lipson) revealed that the trade
would be likely to adopt moth-
proofing on a large scale if
the cost could be cut to about
a third qf that figure—say? to
Id:' per pound of wool.
Research was commenced with
the object of meeting this
condition.
Insecticides such as D.D.T.
and Gammexane (benzene-
hexachloride) will give tem-
porary protection against
moth-attack, but they are soon
removed from the cloth by
washing and dry-cleaning.
Dr. Upson and Miss R. J.
Hope therefore began a search
for an insecticide which would
be inexpensive to apply yet fast
to washing and cleaning.
They found that the insecti-
cide Dieldrin, which has
recently come into general use
against various agricultural,
horticultural arid livestock
pests, is a most effective moth-
proofing agent, even at very
low concentrations (0.02 per
cent, of Dieldrin on the weight
of wool). Further, this insecti-
cide produced a result which
proved unexpectedly fast to
both washing and dry-cieaning.
Large-scaie trials are now in
progress, using different con-
ditions of application, whilst
practical wearing-tests are
being undertaken on treated
garments.
Although many commercial
aspects have yet to be investi-
gated, there is no doubt that
treatment with Dieldrin, either
in the dip or at some stage of
textile-processing, offers real
hope of inexpensive and
effective mothproofing of
woollen materials.
Branding-fiuiids
An overall rise in value of
wool as a textile-fibre would
undoubtedly result if buyers
were confident that there was
no likelihood of unscourable
brands being present.
.The development of scour-
able sheep-branding fluids by
C.5.1.R.0. has provided a
means by which this end can
be achieved, it now remains
for manufacturers, wool-
industry bodies and State
Departments of Agriculture to
work together to eliminate
completely the use of unscour-
able brands on Australian
sheep.
Prior to the advent of
scourable branding-fluids some
If per cent, by weight of the
Australian wool - clip was


/
I
V..
i
m
,T
t=
:= T=
■
MU
W>>v. v . x
the strongest
most versatile
framework
ever designed
Steel—wood—steel members give unequalled structural strength
and simplicity in construction!
Bowas is the world’s strongest, most versatile framework the
perfect building material for shearers’ quarters, cottages and home-
steads. The Bowas principle (cypress pine held rigid on both sides
by mild steel members up to |in. thick) provides a framework; of
immense strength only equalled by brick construction. Only Bowas
allows future alterations to be made at minimum cost and without
major structural changes. Only Bowas can be completely dis-
mantled, then re-erected, without damage to the framework.
Bowas framework will not warp or twist; is not affected by
shrinkage, dry rot, white ants, gum Veins, etc. This is why Bowas
quality pays off in the long run, costs practically nothing in main-
tenance and very little in depreciation—holds its value years longer
than any other comparable structure. Erection of any building, from
a large homestead to small cottages, takes less time than any other
normal structure. Bowas is the modern way to build —permanently
for the years ahead!
Write today for full details — there’s no obligation.
BOWAS CONSTRUCTIONS LIIVHTED
Williams Pde. faff Constitution Rd.), Dulwich Hill, N.S.W. LM 5204—LM 7886*
Railway Pde., Rocklea, Queensland. JU 1692.


F. $. Falkiner & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
FAMOUS STUD FLOCKS
Reg. Flock No. 7
Rear
Flock No. PI
Reg. Flock No'. 83
Reg. Flock No. 84
• BOONOKE
• POLL BOONOKE
• WANGANELLA
• WANGANELLA ESTATE
Over One Million Bales Wool Annually Are Grown to “FSF” Blood
These Merino stud flocks are basically 100% of Peppin-’s original studs, established in 1861 on
Wanganella and Boonoke, which George Peppin bought in 1858. Present owners acquired Boonoke
1878, Wanganella Estate (eastern half of Wanganella) in 1910, and the other half of Wanganella in
1958. Poll Boonoke Stud was established 1934. It is pure Boonoke PLUS 24 years of POLL
INHERITANCE. The No. 2 Poll Boonoke Stud was formed 1956 with Wanganella Estate ewes
and Poll Boonoke sires.
m
I
m
I
Some of the 28 POLL BOONOKE STUD RAMS AVAILABLE AT SYDNEY
through A.M.L. & F. and Dalgety’s Catalogues
“FSF” Famous Stud Flocks also are represented
at the forthcoming Sydney Ram Sales by:
# BOONOKE r 7 Special Stud Rams (N.Z. Loan)
5 Stud Rams (C.W.P.-Elders)
5 Stud Rams (Dalgety’s)
• WANGANELLA ESTATE .. 3 Special and 3 Stud Rams (Dalgety’s)
2 Special and 4 Stud Rams (A.M.L.F.)
* 5 Stud Rams (G. Mort)
“FSF” represents the Greatest Ram Selling Business on Earth
Please order your Seasonal Requirements early from Sales Manager ,
F. S. FALKiNER & SONS PTY. LTD. Boonoke North, Widgiewa, N,S,W.
’Phones: Urana 15, Longreach 53.
Queensland Depot at Cleeve, Longreach
classed as “brands.” The
increased cost of processing this
wool represented a direct loss
of about £lj million to the
industry each year.
Research to produce a scour-
able branding-fluid began in
Australia in 1943. By 1950 a
formula was available (LBE)
which stood-up well to practi-
cal use under field conditions,
It was based on lanolin (the
natural grease of wool), resin
and certain other substances
which can be emulsified in
water containing ammonia.
The only real defect of this
formula was that the marking
smudged or ran when rain fell
immediately after branding,
Twelve hours were needed 'for
the brand to set before it
became water-fast.
Research continued in an
effort to overcome this dis-
advantage. In 1952 a modified
formula was released (New*
LBE Branding Fluid) which
gave increased resistance to
wetting, but there was room
for still further improvement,
This was achieved success-
fully in the latest formula
released last year. The name
“Si-ro-mark” has been regis-
tered for this branding-fluid
and the name is available under
licence to approved manufac-
turers: Chemically, the new
formula differs from the two
earlier products mainly in the
fact that the emulsion is
reversed. One is an emulsion
of water in fats and the other
an emulsion of fat in water.
Normal industrial processing
will eliminate all Si-ro-mark
brands from the wool, and
industrial trials have shown
that perfect fabrics dyed in pas-
tel shades can be made from
wool so branded.
because of the danger of
buyers confusing black Si-ro-
mark with the indelible old-
type tar - brands it was
decided to eliminate black
from the range of approved
colors. Thus the new fluid
is only available in red, blue
and green. It has been found
that blue, for instance, gives
even better field results than
black, and at the same time
gives the buyer an assurance
that marks in his raw material
are not tar or sump-oil.
The wide use of scourable
branding-fluids over the past
five years has greatly reduced
the severity of the branding-
fluid problem. Nevertheless,
harmful materials are still
being used to brand a small
portion of the clip. Manu-
facturers can’t take a risk, and
normal procedure is still to
sort brands prior to processing,
even though most of the wool
could be safely used without
such sorting. The maximum
advantage from the use of
scourable branding-fluids will
not result until their use is
universal and the manufacturer
can proceed on the assumption
that all brand-marks are scour-
able. There is good reason to
expect that this goal wilL be
attained shortly.
Degreasing
Since ancient times wool has
been scoured with soap and
alkali to remove the wax,
suint and other impurities of
raw wool. One of the main
drawbacks of this traditional
method is that considerable
felting of the wool occurs.
This leads to a proportion of
fibre-breakage during carding
and a substantial proportion of
noils during combing.
Removal of the impurities
from wool with an organic
solvent has been tried from
time to time, but various tech-
nological and operational
difficulties have prevented such
processes from obtaining wide
use.
The C.5.1.R.0. Geelong
laboratory has overcome the
faults of earlier plants, and
successfully developed a con-
tinuous solvent - degreasing
process suitable for commercial
use. The results of industrial
trials of the new method are
most encouraging.
The process was described
by Mr. J. E. Sinclair at the
International Wool Textile
Conference in 1953. The wool
is fed continuously on to an


HAMMER
BLOtV RETA/AfS
THE
WIRE
BUILD A BETTER
FARM FERCE WITH
THE STEEL FENCE DPOPPEP
WITH THE LUG
PARTICULARLY SUITED FOR INTERMEDIATE SUPPORT FOR
EITHER MESH TYPE OR PLAIN WIRE FENCES
IDEAL FOR REPLACING BURNT OR ROTTED WOODEN
DROPPERS
RUGGED STRENGTH AND LIGHT WEIGHT
LUG SPACINGS TO SUIT ALL TYPES OF FENCING
COATED WITH WEATHER-RESISTANT PAINT
SUPPLIED IN LENGTHS OF 4' 6", 4' 0", 3' 9"
Solely manufactured by
STEEL MILLS LTD.
STEEL ROLLERS AND MERCHANTS
SHADDOCK AVENUE, VILLAWOOD, N.S.W.
PHONES: UB 2767, UB 3394, UB 3395
Obtainable from
WOOL HOUSES, STOCK & STATION
AGENTS & ALL LEADING COUNTRY
STORES, OR ENQUIRE DIRECT TO
STEEL MILLS LIMITED.
endless mesh-belt and subjected
to high-pressure jet-sprays as
it passes through the plant.
R£tty or greasy matter is
removed from the wool by
sprays of dry-cleaning fluid
(white-spirit). The tvool is then
sprayed with cold water to
remove the residual solvent
and the suint, which is soluble
in water. Although a small
amount of dirt is left in the
wool after these treatments, it
is readily removed in the sub-
sequent carding owing to the
more open nature of the wool.
The process possesses several
advantages over the traditional
scouring procedure -
# The plant occupies less than
half the floor-space.
# There is no effluent prob-
lem. The dirt removed
during processing is deliv-
ered from the recovery-
plant as a damp cake.
# Little water is used, as most
of it is recirculated through
the system.
# Lanolin can be recovered
simply and cheaply.
# There is a greater yield of
top which is, better in color
than normally - scoured
wool.
Shrinkproofing
The commonest type of
shrinkage to which wool
is subject during washing is
that due to teiting or the
meshing-together of the indi-
vidual hbres.
As early as 1892 it was
known that wool treated with
a solution of chlorine did not
felt. So-called unshrinkable
wool was being produced in
England during the early
years of the 20th century.
Major disadvantages included
loss in weight and poor
wearing-quality of the fabrics.
A major advance occurred
when Freney and Lipson
(C.5.1.R.0., Australia), and
Tootal, Broadhurst and Lee,
Ltd., used a solution of
alkali in an organic solvent
(methylated spirit or other
alcohols, etc.) instead of the
various chlorine treatments
used up to that time (1939-40).
These processes, although in
commercial use, are not com-
pletely satisfactory.
A few years later it was
proposed that a coating of resin
of one kind or another on the
individual wool-f\bres might
prevent felting. This type is
the 'basis of the successful
“Si-ro-fix” shrinkproof pro-
cess developed at Geelong and
now in use commercially,-par-
ticularly for making shrink-
proof hosiery.
The method involves the
treatment of woollen goods
with synthetic resins prepared
from nylon-scrap. It is an
interesting example of the way
scientific research can use the
modern competing synthetics
to enhance the qualities of
woollen fabrics.
Since details of the process
were first released by Dr.
Lipson and Mr. D. L. C. Jack-
son in 1951 further refine-
ments have been made.
Pre-treatment of the wool
before the resin is applied is
one of the keys to the success
of the method, and much addi-
tional research has been done
on this phase. It has been
found by Mr. Jackson that
the effectiveness of resins in
reducing felting depends in
large measure, upon their
adhesion to the individual
wool-fibres. Pre-treatments of
various kinds are designed to
prepare the wool-surface so
that the resins will adhere
more strongly.
Hydrogen-peroxide provided
the most successful chemical
pre-treatment for the particular
resin (polyamide) used in the
Si-ro-fix process.
Mrs. K. R. Makinson, of the
Physics and Engineering Unit
of the Wool Textile Labora-
tories in Sydney, examined
the fabrics treated by Mr.
Jackson with a variety of anti-
felting agents. She found that
with effective pre-treatment
the resin clung closely to the
fibres, whereas without such
treatment it flaked off the
fibres very readily. Micro-
scopic examination revealed
that the resin lay along and
around the fibres, sticking them
together in groups. Between
(Continued on page 69)


FOR BETTER PRICES
BRAND IT . . .
qD
&
m
Modern merchandising methods
and alert auctioneering give best returns!
Consign your wool to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON LTD.
SYDNEY • NEWCASTLE • BRISBANE
WOOL BROKERS
Fat Stock and Produce Salesmen
Stock and Statiqn Agents
Sheep in New Guinea
Sheep-raising is still in
an experimental stage in
Papua and New Guinea,
and the total of flocks
there is no more than 1500.
Some small flocks have been
established by private settlers
and mission-stations, but most
of the sheep are on agricultural
experiment-stations conducted
by the Territory Department '
of Agriculture, including the
Hallstrom Livestock and
Fauna I'rust Farm at Nondugl.
The Nondugl experiment is
the major attempt to introduce
sheep, and most of the know-
ledge of sheep-raising in the
Territory has been obtained
tion! experience there. This
farm, set picturesquely in
ihe New Guinea Highlands,
was founded as the result of
the interest, and the financial
support, of Sir Edward Hall-
strom, and today is conducted
by the Hallstrom Livestock and
Fauna Trust, which was estab-
lished by Ordinance of the
Territory. <
The objectives of the
trust are mainly to train natives
in the care, use and propaga-
tion of livestock ; to distribute
the livestock products of the
farm to natives and other
residents of the Territory ; and
to promote the use of livestock
and livestock products, particu-
larly by the natives. At present
it has a little under 1000 sheep
running on an area of 1450
acres. The annual rainfall is
about 100 inches.
Sheep-raising under condi-
tions at Nondugl has presented
some unusual problems, among
the more serious of which
have been those presented
by internal parasites? A
great deal has been learnt,
and a good deal more has still
to be learnt, regarding the best
methods of handling flocks and
managing pastures under
tropical conditions with heavy
and sometimes rank pastures.
The results of lambing have
varied considerably, but this
may have been due in part to
the ageing of the flock as well
as to the development of'in-
fertility factors due to local
causes. In 1956-57 the lambing
The sheep in the centre is carrying 10 months' wool.
The others four months’ wool.
percentage was 67. This year
the flock will be improved by
the addition of 100 breeding-
ewes.
Beef-cattle Rather Than
Sheep
In 1952 Professor P. R.
McMahon, of the N.S.W. Uni-
versity of Technology, carried-
out an investigation for the
Government regarding the pro-
duction and use of wool from
the flock at Nondugl. His con-
clusions were:
(1) The nature of the herbage,
and the experience so far
accruing, suggests a pastoral
industry based primarily on
beef-cattle rather than on sheep,
but with the sheep, representing
more intensive land-usage and
a ready source of meat and
wool, in close co-operation to
maintain both good pasture-
utilisation, and some measure
of disease-control.
(2) The majority of the
flocks examined appeared to be
reasonably healthy and thrifty,
bearing a useful fleece, and able
to form a sound basis for the
continued development of a
sheep-and-wool industry,
especially in the more temperate
upland regions,
(3) The present high cost of
transport both out of and into
the Highlands makes it desirable
to convert locally as much of
the clip as<possible into simple
textile materials,
Apart from any economic
value of sheep-raising in the
Territory, the Government
regards sheep-raising as an
important means of training
natives in animal-husbandry,
since people not accustomed to
large domesticated animals can
more readily make a start with
sheep than with cattle. Further-
more, in the Highlands there
is an immediate use for wool,
both for training in handicrafts
and in production of rugs for
use by . the native people.
Mutton might in time become
an item of diet, but locally-
raised mutton will continue to
be a luxury or a novelty for
most of the people of the
Territory while flocks remain
comparatively small. The
Administration view is that
in selected areas of the
Territory sheep can be a
useful adjunct to other live-
stock industries, but that in
most districts the conditions
are not naturally suited for
sheep-raising. Other types of
farming can be established
more successfully and are more
economical.


it'. .ikWu «.yv« vm* t»V> i•- .
WILHELMSEN LINE
Regular service to the Middle East, the
Continent and Scandinavia.
Refrigerated as well as general cargo
space available.
Limited first-class passenger accommo-
dation available in double- or single-deck
cabins.
AUSTRALIA-
WIST PACIFIC LINS
Serving Manila, Hong Kong and main
Japanese ports—returning via Shanghai,
New Guinea and Island Ports. Regular
sailings by Milos, Delos, Aros and Citos
with general and refrigerated space avail-
able; also special mechanical ventilation
for fruit, vegetables, etc., in ’tween decks.
Luxurious passenger accommodation in
single- or two-berth cabins.
r••
I '•<
|pWP r --wikm \*r
*>V
AMERICAN PIONEER LINE
Rapid service of modern refrigerated
cargo vessels from Australia to U.S. and
Canadian Atlantic Coast Ports, and Trini-
dad via Panama Canal. Vessels carry a
limited number of passengers in saloon
accommodation.
r
t
*
&
M
Fly X#J Over The Pole
sei/vvi/MivM/v /wrif/V£S srsrsH
Fly by the $>4S Polar Short-cut Routes to Europe.
Smoother, faster with world-famous Scandinavian
hospitality and service.
★ TOKYO to COPENHAGEN
3 flights weekly
* LOS ANGELES to COPENHAGEN
8 flights weekly
For full details on any of the above services contact your travel agent or . . .
WILH. WILHELMS EH AGENCY PT Y. LI
Be PITT ST., SYDNEY. B U 63 0 1
ST WILLIAM ST.. MELBOURNE. MA3031


Mill) 111
PURE PEPPIN MERINO STUD SHEEP
# Uardry Stud was founded in '1864 from Wanganella Stud.
Charles Mills purchased the Property and Stud in 1876.
94 YEARS PREPARING FOR TOMORROW!
UARDRY SIRES have been preferred by 120 STUDMASTERS
• Since only 1947 Uardry Rams have topped Sydney Sales Three Times.
Uardry’s top priced Ram at Sydney last year was “APOLLO,” sold for 5000 guineas.
mmm
■
••••••
u
mm * r
:#■
;u
I
m
m
91
-
S v-i?
m
'
■
>• v: v .
m
These are Some of the Uardry Specials for Sydney this Year.
• Uardry Stud Offers Sydney Buyers on June 2-4:
\
5 Special Stud Rams,
39 Stud and Selected Rams,
4 Uardry Bred Poll Rams (inc. 1 Special).
BREEDERS BUY WISELY WHEN THEY BUY UARDRY
CHARLES MILLS (UARDRY) PTY., HAY. N.S.W.
, Manager: Rowand Jameson. Classer: H. Frank Pennefather.
Vic. Rep.: G. F. Pennefather
did not become so until the
development of the industrial
machine-revolution made Eng-
land the centre not only - of
wool-manufacture but of
expansion and competition.
In 1815, the year after the
Erst real consignments of-wool
reached London from Aus-
tralia, Spain was sending nearly
seven-million pounds to Eng-
land, the Germans only a few
thousand pounds. Australia’s
contribution was 32,0001 b,
Then the Saxons catapulted
into the market and showed
what they could do, and the
whole world of wool was agog
at their methods and the quality
of their fleeces.
It must have seemed in 1820-4
to Australians who had spent
15 patient and sometimes
heart-breaking years in bring-
ing their flocks up to standard
and their production up to
exportable level that the great
prize which they had been
aiming for was about to be
snatched from their hands.
Macarthur’s gold-medal for
having exported 150,0001 b. of
wool from N. S. Wales and
his other one for having pro-
duced to the Society of Arts
“the finest sample of wool, the
produce of N. S. Wales,
superior to the best Spanish,”
seemed as if they might prove
empty testimonials.
The 'young Macarthurs in
London gazed with wonder on
the carefully prepared wool
of the Saxon competitors. Their
own wool arrived in such con-
dition that those who had seen
it packed could scarcely believe
it was the same wool they
had seen pressed a few months
before in Camden. The
German wool, packed by a
different method with untied
fleeces, remained as it went
into the ship, even though
sometimes it lay almost as long
as the Australian before it
was sold.
German Methods
HT HERE were strong
differences about quality—
using the word in a general
serise—but as to whether Saxon
wool was intrinsically better
than Australian didn't matter.
As it appeared in the market
Saxon was better, and the
Saxon was the more skilled
farmer and handler of fleeces.
“Men of much skill,” young
John Macarthur, Junior,
reported, “many have been to
the university and have paid
considerable attention to
botany, which enables them to
cultivate upon their plains
such grasses and herbs as
seem calculated for their flocks.
In winter their sheep are kept
in sheds and fed on hay, etc. ;
in fine weather they are driven
out over a considerable extent
of pasture, by which they ha\e
air and exercise, both of great
importance in their judgment.”
London fexperts felt Aus-
tralian wool from the Mac-
arthur prime sheep was “of a
very good description,” but they
were clear in their view that
it was also “capable of great
improvement in the fineness of
the fibre, by the application of
the artificial means practised by
the Saxons, or, at least, to
such an extent, as the nature of
the climate may seem to render
necessary.”
The Macarthur agents
pointed out that these artificial
aids to improvement were not
easy to obtain ,in a rude, new
country devoid of artificial
grasses and beset with age-old
scrub. However, the adviser
said that he “should at least
recommend the same attention
to the rams as in Germany,
where they are considered as
valuable as racehorses, and
tended with as much care as
the latter are at Newmarket,
housed at night, exercised by
day and even clothed in winter
—allowed certain quantities of
the finest food, and not per-
mitted to become fat or gross
in the carcass.”
The Macarthurs were duly
impressed with the effects of
treatment and particularly of
diet, but they refused to con-
cede superiority either to the
{Continued on page 66)


BEGINNING OF THE END FOR PARASITES
The outstanding insecticidal properties of the Shell
chemicals, dieldrin and aldrin, have captured the
imagination of the public and won the acclaim of
farmers throughout the world. However, in the wool
industry the story of dieldrin and aldrin has just
begun. Their use in dips for the control of parasites
and prolonged blowfly protection has proved of
incalculable benefit to the farmer. For the finished
wool product, the moth-proofing properties of
dieldrin will provide long-term protection and great
savings to family budgets everywhere.
.
mm
FROM SHEEP’S BACK
Blowfly-pro<rf
Insecticides, however effective, have always
tended to grow away from the skin as new wool
forms, and the animal becomes increasingly prone
to blowfly strike. Aldrin and dieldrin however,
actually diffuse in the wool grease and migrate
down the wool fibre. As new wool grows, it is
automatically protected and thus the animal
grows its own bldwfly-proofed wool, and remains
protected for many months.
TO HER BACK
Moth-proofed
vXvX-X>y£-
An extremely low concentration of dieldrin is
deadly to the larvae of the common clothes moth.
When dieldrin is applied as an emulsion, the
wool fibre swells and becomes more penetrable.
Electro-static attraction between emulsifier and
fibre results in the absorption of dieldrin. When
the fibre dries out, the dieldrin remains and the
wool, is moth-proofed. It is not affected by dry-
cleaning solvents or steam-pressing. Wool moth-
proofed with dieldrin has no odour and its
properties are in no way affected.
dieldrin
an outstanding insecticide
SHELL
m
AGRICULTURAL
CHEMICALS
Shell Chemica
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD. (Inc. in Victoria)
Melbourne • Sydnay • Brisbane • Adelaide • Perth • Hobart
Aa Associate of the Shell Co. of Ausi. and registered user of its Trade Marks.


REGISTERED FLOCK No. 60
thauom
DURANBANDI
MO
ERINO STU
6,
&
/
K’<
ft
MU
7
. 'I
i>*
73 A 1-I*l dANCIIDOOL'./v/Vi VKi/fl
> in. 1 ..* v- _ // »
ll >/
?. JO
43
A Uj
6
N
S
it
m
»/(#
VOKMXm
*V7
*,7
%«*
6 «
;'4WAtdBT
* »**£
MA
I/'?
/; r
in
'■/Pt
. /.
BOU
'6
ft?
4 *U
!?'/}
OJV
> /
OIVS
N JUM.
fa
n
!/
i.W
y/'f
I*
/j
>\>
rv
r --'
I Nfc »=~?S!r s rl
' ; V
Founded over 45 years ago by the late Major G. M. Richmond, this well-known stud is now controlled by his
son, James Richmond.
The original stock were bred at Haddon Rig, Warren, and Gingie, Walgett, by the grandfather of the present owner.
Bred at Goodooga in a 1 4in. rainfall area, these sheep are of pure Haddon Rig blood. Ram buyers may have their
rams delivered on rail at Dirranbandi, Walgett, Brewarrina or Pokataroo. '
For further particulars apply:—
The Manager, MOGILA, GOODOOGA, N.S.W. Phone: Goodooga 4.
voluntarily levied themselves
2s. a bale on all their wool to
finance this wool-use promo-
tion ; and that levy has since
been raised to 4s. a bale. This
4s. a bale is actually a small
insurance-investment in the
future of wool, bearing in
mind that it represents only
one-sixth of one penny per
pound.
The Australian Wool
Bureau and the International
Wool Secretariat in 14 countries
of the world use this money in
all possible ways to ensure a
continuing demand for wool.
Overseas the International
Wool Publicity and Research
Fund finances from the money
supplied by the woolgrowers
of Australia, New Zealand and
South Africa:
# Research-work to enhance
wool’s qualities.
# Liaison with textile-manu-
facturers to encourage the
corttinued manufacture of
improved wool textiles.
# Scientific inquiry into cheap,
speedier and more efficient
methods of wool-fabric
production.
0 Promotions in conjunction
with the varied branches of
the trade to stimulate
greater sales of wool fabrics.
These and a host of other
methods are employed through
the radio, press, films
and overseas television to
promote wool and conse-
quently ensure the stability of
the Australian economy and
the prosperity of the grower.
Australia, as the major wool-
producer of the world, contri-
buted £1,043,000 to this fund
last year.
“Easy Care” Woollens
It is gratifying to all Aus-
tralians to learn that the first
conference ever arranged on the
“easy care” of wool fabrics,
held late last year, expressed
confidence and enthusiasm for
the future of wool.
The conference was attended
by the key research-directors
of nine countries: from all
countries, in fact, which have
substantial International Wool
Secretariat research pro-
grammes.
The opinion of delegates to
the conference was that im-
portant advances in “easy
care” of wool garments and
furnishings were just over the
horizon. It is felt that these
“easy - care” processes will
enhance wool’s considerable
qualities without detracting
from its natural virtues of
Footnote:- “Australia and Wool'* Graph
The discrepancy between total production and exports plus local use. arucs from the (act that production figures
are the total greasy equivalent of all wool produced (including skin wools), whereas exports exclude wool on
skins and also take in scoured and carbonised wool at actual weight (not greasy equivalent).


NOTHING EQUALS
Warmray's Amazing Efficiency!
warm ray
TRIPIE-PURPOSE, SLOW-COMBUSTION,
AIR-CONDITIONING HOME HEATER
Mode! No. 3
Super Do luxe
i( Large Capacity
Over 8,000
cu. ft.
■jr Special large
firebox for long
burning with-
out attention.
Extra large
hotplate for
cooking.
Installs in rooms
with or without
fireplaces.
Owing to fuel saving the "Warmray"
ACTUALLY COSTS NOTHING!
Model No. 2A Standard
k Lights in seconds,
warms entire room in
minutes.
k No smoke or dust to
soil furnishings.
k Full view of blazing
' fire through open or
closed front.
A Modern artistic cream
porcelain enamel .on
solid cast iron.
A Heats over 5,000 cu.
ft.
A’ No dirty fireplaces to
clean.
Reduces fuel bill at least 75 per cent.
" -^or\°fWarmray'-
app reC ' de aAustraJjas
itu l' as '!V most successful
Mir
WORLD PATENTED HEATING TUBES MAKE THIS
THE MOST ECONOMICAL AND BEST ROOM
HEATER OF THEM ALL—REGARDLESS OF PRICEJ
WARM RAY
HEATING TUBES
The secret of Warmray’s Amazing Efficiency Is the
Patented Heating Tabes (illustrated above), which
are built Into the lirebox. The air in the room
passes through these tubes continuously, thus
maintaining an eveii, all-over warmth,
+ BURNS ALE SOLID FUELS
WOOD IS CLEANEST.
Sold by Stores, Builders * Suppliers and
Hardware Merchants everywhere.
WARMRAY PTY. LTD.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors
Challis House, Martin Place. Sydney
Telegrams: “Warmray.” BL 2217
If unobtainable locally , phone, write or call
for illustrated Brochure and name of
nearest agents,
W2Ol
softness, drape-retention and
attractive appearance.
It is anticipated, for
example, that the public in the
future will demand pure-wool
garments with creases that
withstand rain; pure-wool
garments which can be dry-
cleaned without re-pleating
and which give harder wear.
Of course, good commercial
processes for making wool
garments resistant to shrink-
age and distortion in washing
are now readily available, but
better processes are being con-
tinually sought. And now the
lines along which these
improved processes are to be
developed are becoming
clearer.
Particularly we in Australia
are .interested in scientific pro-
cesses for the “easy care” of
wool garments which are
cheap and can be applied
easily.
There is no doubt that the
recent development by
the C.5.1.R.0. of a process to
permanently pleat wool-fabrics
is a most important step for-
ward in the general improve-
ment of wool-performance.
Reference was made at the
conference to a new moth-
proofing product which is
effective in incredibly small
concentrations. This process,
which offers the practical
possibilities of completely
mothproofed wool at a low
cost, has been widely applied
in Australia in the pro-
cessing of both wool-yarns and
-fabrics in recent months.
Worthy of comment, too, is
the fact that the conference
agreed that wool, contrary to
popular belief, is no slower in
drying than any other fabric
of similar thickness.
A Research Levy
Added to the levy of 4s. a
bale for wool-promotion, wool-
growers late last year agreed
to levy themselves an addi-
tional 2s. a bale for sheep- and
wool-research in Australia.
This, added to the Federal
Government’s increased con-
tribution of 4s. a bale, means
that £1.7 million is now avail-
able for research-projects
aimed at a greater and more
efficient production of better
wool.
it also means additional
finance for C.5.1.R.0.’s wool-
textile research. C.5.1.R.0. has
already established itself as a
leader of world textile-research
with its permanent pleating,
mothproofing, shrinkproofing
similar processes.
Wool-research is a world-
wide activity, and in Australia
it has had a steady post-war
expansion.
Our scientists have wool
under the microscope con-
tinually trying to unravel its
secrets; and also trying to
enhance the qualities which
have set it up in its undis-
puted position as the superior
fibre of all fibres.
The woolgrowers of Aus-
tralia,' by their levies for
research and promotion, are
making material contributions
to the welfare Of the wool
industry ; and they have great
hopes that the co-ordination
of these two fields of endeavor
throughout the world will
improve wool-usage and so
assure the stability of the
Australian economy.
The 1957-58 Clip
VI/INCHCOMBE Carson,
Ltd., estimate the wool
clip for 1957-58 at 4,230,000
bales, down 656,000 bales on
the previous season's record
clip. The firm also puts the
cheque for 1957-58 at £330
million, down £l5O million.
It has been particularly bad
luck for the industry that
drought has coincided with
much lower prices at auction.
Adverse seasonal conditions
are likely to have a bearing on
the 1958-59 clip as well, judged
by present indications.


ENJOY
SERVIC
Unlimited
FROM
THE COUNTRY PRODUCERS SELLING CO. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney-n BU 5101
II Watt Street, Newcastle 84160
WOOL • SHEEP • CATTLE • PRODUCE
STOCK l PROPERTY SALESMEN
Insuring Your Wool-cheque—
WOOL FUTURES
By CLIVE HALL
WftEN discussing
“futures,” whether in
wool or other com-
modities, it is neces-
sary to have a clear understand-
ing of the difference between
a “futures contract” and a “for-
ward contract.”
In many businesses com-
modities are bought at present
quoted prices for delivery at
a later date, and, whilst in so
doing both parties are dealing
in the future, they are not
dealing in “futures.”
They are making contracts,
which are contracts for a
mutually agreed and specified
type, quantity and quality of
goods at an agreed price for
delivery at some later date.
This is cofnmon practice in the
wool trade between topmakers
and spinners, spinners and
weavers, etc.
“Futures” and “Forward”
A “futures contract” differs
from a “forward contract”
because, although physical
delivery of specified goods may
be contemplated and is pro-
vided for, “futures” tracing is
really trading in promises:
promises to buy or to sell the
standard unit of contract of
that particular market in a
certain month some time ahead,
at a fixed price.
Another point of difference
is that in a forward contract
any type of wool or .wool-
product may be specified, but
in a futures contract the
standard unit J of contract is
clearly defined (on London it
is 64’s B top), for it is essen-
tial that the unit of contract be
of a fixed standard and one
which is readily available.
By buying or selling
“futures promises” the risks of
price-fluctuations in the com-
modity are insured against. A
futures contract is made
between two parties whose
businesses are different and
who require to cover them-
selves against opposing risks.
It therefore , suits them
to lay-off their risks against
each other. One may be fear-
ing a rise in price and the other,
a fall. Those who are afraid
of a fall in prices Will sell
futures ; those who fear a rise
will buy futures. Such trans-
actions are known as “hedges” ;
hence the term “hedging,”
which means insuring against
adverse price-fluctuations.
Futures markets cannot be
organised for all commodities,
and in certain cases they are
not justified. A market of this
kind is only suitable for world
commodities which are subject
to considerable price-fluctua-
tions on account of variable
production (aa in nearly all
agricultural crops) and variable
demand.
It is unfortunate that in
Australia there are no futures
markets in any commodity,
and even on the Stock
Exchange trading is limited to
approximately six weeks ahead,
and in this regard very little
business is done.
The Four Futures Markets
There are four wool-top
futures markets in the world
—one in Antwerp in Belgium,
one in Roubaix in France (both
of which commenced opera-
tions about 1888), one in NeW'
York (which commenced in
1931), and one in London,
which did not begin operations
until April 29, 1953. In New
York there is also a greasy-
wool futures market which
was opened in 1941 and which
plays an important part in the
hedging of the American
domestic clip by the merchants
who buy it.
In all these top-markets the
standard of quality of wool-top
is ; the unit of contract,
both in New York and in
London, is 50001 b. weight; and
on the Continent 2250 kilos,
which comes to about the same
figure. This makes it possible
to offset risks in any one of
these markets, and they all
move in a fairly restricted
relationship one to the other.
As mentioned previously, on
London the unit of contract is
50001 b. weight of 64’s B top,
made from Australian wool.
To obviate any large interests
trying to gain control of the
market by excessive buying of
that particular quality it is
possible to deliver on London
against the sale of a contract
tops as fine as 70’s or as coarse
as 60’s, with their correspond-
ing premium or discount
according to quality, the
premiums and discounts being
fixed on the first of each month.
Now this unit of contract—
i.e., 50001 b. weight of 64’s B
top really means that the
London market, reflects the
price of Merino values through-
out the world because it is
possible to deliver tops of 60’s
or 70’s quality against a con-
tract.
It has been established Over
recent years that it is basically
the price of Merino wool
clean on the floor in Aus-
tralia which governs the price
of futures. It has frequently
been suggested that futures
influence the price of wool, but
a careful study of the market
reveals that, whilst the two
prices may be out of line in
This article is portion of a
paper delivered by Mr. Clive
Hall to the Australian National
University on April 6.
their relationship one with the
other for short periods, due
perhaps to either financial or
political influences, invariably
they return to their normal
relationship.
Forty Bales a Unit
In dealing with Australian
wool the unit of contract rep-
resents approximately 40 bales
of a grower’s greasy clip.
Obviously some growers will
have a much finer and more
valuable wool than others, in
which case the unit of contract
will represent fewer bales of
greasy wool in value.
As is common in everyday
life, people frequently do not
o Continued on page 70)


on its way to you now
f
THE MOST VALUABLE BOOK OF THE YEAR!
m
pat» w 'f
x©* 1 ** 0 "
sp&**
CONTENTS
Q Itchmite, lice, ked, blowfly identification,
treatment and control.
• Tip-spraying for lice, keds, fly control.
• Jetting for fly strike.
• Multi-Spray Race, how to use it.
O Firefighter as power pack.
• Sheepshower, how to use it.
• Body Strike Sprayer, how to jet sheep.
m
i
In the post now! Your copy of “External Parasite Control,” the year’s
most informative book on the major problems of the Industry. Sunbeam
Corporation Limited present it to you with their compliments. This is a
textbook, a complete and concise collection of the most recent facts and
findings in this field. Everything is here, from parasites to treatment and
machines, described fully, accurately, in plain language. If you have not
yet received your copy, your local Cooper Agent or State Branch will be
only too pleased to have one forwarded without delay. Sunbeam Corporation
Limited offer it to you as another service—a service, like their many others,
which they ere proud to present.
PROUDLY PRESENTED TO YOU BY CORPORATION LIMITED


Econo Rural Buildings
BETTER CHEAPER LONGER LASTING
UTI LITY SHED
This Econo Utility Shed is the
low cost answer to that building
you need for garaging trucks,
housing machinery, storing
materials or for use as a work-
shop.
It’s strong, rigid, white-ant and
rot proof, fire resistant and easily-
erected. Sizes 12, 15, 18, 21 or
24ft. spans in multiples of 6ft.
lengths; also 30, 40, 50 and 60ft.
spans in 12 ft. 6in. bays, any
length.
HAY SHED
Econo Steel Hay Sheds have the
clear height and unobstructed
width for proper storage of baled
hay, lucerne and other stock
fodder.
They’re cheap to erect, easy to
erect and, being steel, they’re
strong, rigid, white-ant proof, rot
proof and fire resistant. Sizes:
1 5 and 1 6ft. high x 30ft. to 65 ft.
in span x any length in multiples
of 15 ft. Wall bracings, wind
bracings, steel purlins, 26gg.
CGI roof covering and all bolts,
nuts, hooks, etc., supplied.
\j\-
m
Sflfls
SHEARERS’ QUARTERS
Econo Steel construction
strong, rigid, white-ant proof,
rot proof and fire resistant
provides a building able to take
hardest use; erection costs are
low, erection time is fast.
Econo Shearers’ Quarters can be
erected on concrete or wood
floors and conform with the re-
quirements of N.S.W. Industrial
Acts in all particulars.
IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT
The NEW, IMPROVED Econo 2-Stand Shearing Shed is now released.
45ft. x 25ft. Steel Rigid Frame Construction. Amazingly Low Price.
See it at the Sheep Show.
ECONO STEEL COMPANY
A Division of Tutloch Limited
CONCORD ROAD. RHODES. N.S.W. UF1231 —177 ANN ST.. BRISBANE. QUEENSLAND.
See Econo Rural Buildings at the Sheep Show
Saxon (and Silesian) sheep or
to the intrinsic virtues of
Saxon wool.
Others in Australia, however,
having seen the German wool
in London and paid hurried
visits to Saxony, took a
different view, and the first
real controversy to develop
about the merits of particular
Merino breeds was soon
raging in N. S. Wales on a
major scale, transcending for
3 time a H other issues m
economic politics.
o ne side was alI for tKe
sheep, the other for pastoral
and marketing methods,
Macarthur himself was
chagrined when the agent ot
, he Australian Agri c U i tU ral
Company arrived at the end of
]B25 F w f th over 700 French
d Saxon sh which had
. . x F * ...
withstood the voyage sturdily.
It Is sad to have to think that
under a local committee which
consisted entirely of Mac-
arthurs and their nominees
these sheep received attention
more likely to kill them off than
nUueers “ S W 0
' , .
Mortality among them in the
w *' t . bag^le Farm bottoms to
which they were relegated was
exceeded by that which
afflicted them when they were
transferred by a sort of aero-
batic feat across the Bulga track
to the even wetter lowlands of
the coastal country near
Stroud.
The Fight Is On
rpjjgy died to a chorus of
1 argument. The • Camden
Park school would have none
of the idea that the Macarthur
importations were not by merit
and sturdiness entitled to a
monopoly, or that the imports-
(ion of Saxons would not pro-
duce anything save deteriora-
tion. This school, however, was
betrayed by its own instru-
ments.
Following the arrival of the
1825 shipment of Saxons and


Haddon Rig Special Stud Ram No. 157, one
©f five to be offered at the Sydney Ram Sales
(COUNTRY LIFE photo).
At the Sydney Sales
Australia's Top Rams
Will again be offered by
HADDON RID
Thanks to the inherent sturdiness and adapta-
bility of Haddon Rig Rams, breeders can count
on bidding for yet another splendid team from
Australia’s premier Merino Stud. As eighteen
months of drought—the driest spell at Haddon
Rig since 1902 —was preceded by an extremely
wet year, every ram has had to prove himself
under the most adverse conditions.
The Haddon Rig team for Sydney is of very
even quality, and is regarded by keen judges as
outstanding, especially in view of the seasonal
conditions it has experienced. It comprises five
Special Stud Rams, 36 Stud Rams, and 70
selected rams—lll in all, or one more than the
1957 team, which secured a remarkable “hat-
trick”—£4,72s for top Merino Ram, £14,490 for
5 “Specials,” and top aggregate (£47,806) for
the eighteenth successive year!
Next month, the five Haddon Rig “Specials*
will be offered by Dalgety & Co., together with
the 36 Stud Rams and 30 selected Rams. The
first “Special” to be auctioned will be No. 700,
considered to be the finest autumn drop ram
ever to leave Haddon Rig. 20 Selected Rams
will each be offered by Commonwealth Wool &
Produce 1 Co. and A.M.L. & F. Co. Ltd.
76 years of mating “like with like” presents
you with a grand opportunity—to bid for your
share -of the wealth that Haddon Rig Blood
brings to breeders and growers throughout
Australia.
HADDON RIG STUD
Warren, N.S.W. Telephone: Warren 74
RG18.58
Rambouillets —blood brought
from Spain by
a Mr. Dutton, who had been
brought-up as a farmer in
Saxony, a woolclasser, sorter
and adviser. The Macarthurs
themselves later imported a Mr.
Koltz young, “unobtrusive
and modest,” after James
Macarthur had toured
Germany studying local
methods.
These were not only
Saxon-method men but Saxon
sheep - men, as was the
redoubtable Frederick Bracker,
who presently arrived with the
famous Bettington and other
consignments of 1828.
A flood of Saxon sheep
began to come into the
country. The palm as first
importer has been claimed for
James Atkinson, who came to
N. S. Wales in 1818 to take-up
a clerkship in the Colonial
Secretary’s office, arid who, by
his son, was asserted to have
brought with him three Saxon
rams which he placed on Old-
bury, the estate near Sutton
Forest which he named after
his father’s farm in Kent. There
is no official contemporary
trace of this importation.
The first substantial imports
were made by Edward Riley,
and his father, Alexander
Riley, though at the time Mr.
Riley was compelled to share
his fame with Richard Jones,
a whaler, whose importations
were the most substantial of
the earliest days.
With the fight about Merino
breeds went an equally torrid
contest between the importers
of the Saxon to obtain
advantages in the way of land-
grants as rewards for pioneer-
ing the breed.
In June, 1825, we find Mr.
Alexander Riley, now retired
temporarily to the haven of
Panton Street, Haymarket,
London, writing to the Under-
secretary of the Colonial Office
announcing that he had “made
arrangements without limit to
cost to obtain 200 of the finest
fleeced sheep from the most
celebrated flocks in the Elec-
torate obtainable in Saxony,
for transmission to Port Jack-
son,” in the hopes of “largely
contributing to lay the founda-
tion of enabling the Territory
to speedily eclipse the German,
as it has already successfully
done with the Spanish wools.”
A philanthropist, Mr. Riley
did not “ hope to receive any
remunerative profit from his
venture for eight or ten years,”
so would the Colonial Office
give him a free grant of 10,000
acres of the best land in the
Colony?
The Colonial Office could
and did, outraging the feelings
of the friendly Macarthurs,
because it felt that “there is no
doubt that the stock which you
are about to send out is of
value to entitle you to that
indulgence.”
Later there arose from Mr.
Richard Jones a cry of anguish
alleging that in 1823 and 1824
he had been in Europe and in
the latter year had imported
from Saxony “20 rams and 100
ewes of the purest Electoral
breed, and producing unusually
fine w 001.... and they arrived
the following year,” with the
result that “others had followed
his example,” and “the conse-
quence has been several addi-
tional importations, which wili
in a few years change the
character of all the wool in
the Colony, and thereby enable
us to compete with foreigners
in this essential raw-material,
of which one of the greatest
branches of British manufac-
ture is made, and in the end
render Great Britain inde-
pendent of Foreign supply”:
I must therefore claim the merit
of being the first individual who
imported sheep from Saxony for
the improvement of the breed in
New South Wales.
His importations were
certainly extensive. With
direct imports and purchases at
shipside of Saxons brought in
by others, he acquired in two
or three years 672 fine-wool
breeding-sheep, involving an
outlay with land and freights
of about £25,000.
Songs of Praise
■pROM 1825 onwards the
-*■ effects of this change were
marked. The competitive wool-
boom was on. The toll-gates
into Sydney in 1825 were
choked with wool-wagons as
the export reached out for the
500,0001 b. mark. The papers
in the next two years were full
of praise for the Saxon, issuing
from the pens of Mr. Edward
Riley and the recreant Mr.
Dutton, who delivered himself
of purple passages to the newly
formed Agricultural Society,
which turned Mr. John Mac-
arthur black with rage:
Whether it is from the purity of
the blood or the judicious breeding
selections and arrangements, or the
artificial Saxon method of raising
sheep, certain it is that their wool
is unrivalled in value on the
British market... .From a minute
examination of Mr. Kiley’s Saxon
wool during sorting I am led to
believe that it has gained in elas-
ticity, .thereby acquiring an addi-
tional length of pile, without losing
that closeness and shortness of
staple which the manufacturers call
close-crowded and which is only
to.be met with in the Saxon w r ools.
If this quality increases in the
descendants of the Saxon blood
(which with a well-judged selection
of breeding-animals it must do) it


Available for the First Time
in Australia
The Famous New Zealand
STEPHENS’
FOOTROT
CLIPPER
• Fits all standard shearing
machines
• Strongly built for long life
• Light and comfortable to handle
• Will cut any type of sheeps’
hoof
£29 / 10 / -
WF
48-56 QUEEN’S BRIDGE ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE
will not only glvo a weightier
fleece to the producer, but I am
also of opinion that it will give
rise to a new character In the wool
infinitely superior to the present
Electoral wool.
Its elasticity, he said, must
tend to increase the fineness,
softness and mildness of the
crossbred wools of this country.
He held the Saxons up as the
only true heirs of the dispersed
Spanish Escurials, the pure, true
Merinos, improved from the
original until “they have at last
so completely cast-off the
character of Spanish wool that
it has for some time been
known to the trade as Electoral
wool.”
And thus Mr. Riley:
i '
Electoral wool is valued for its
extreme fineness. This was pro-
duced by the system pursued in
breeding and which was first dis-
covered by the exact ratio found
to exist between the number of
curves in a given space of wool-
hair, and its fineness. This quality
is also the cause of elasticity
which, in its perfection, induces
that closeness of staple peculiar
alone to the Electoral w001....The
curve must be regular from the top
to the bottom, the greater number
of bends the finer must be the
wool. The constitution of these
animals must be compared to the
blood horse... .tender, but not
weak.
Riley claimed that his sheep
cut an average of — the
Macarthur cut was certainly
less than 31b.
The grazing industry rushed
to the Riley side. The press
trumpeted as shipment after
shipment came in that Messrs.
Jones and Riley “have not only
improved the colonial animal,
but what is more totally
eclipsed the hopes of the
Merino gentry, threatening
ultimately, at no very distant
day, to elevate the character of
Australia, for the article of
wool alone, to be superior to
that of even boasted Saxony.”
“Merino,” it was said, “would
always be a saleable com-
modity, but from its acknow-
ledged inferiority, must be sub-
sidiary in value to the fleece
begotten from the Saxon
stock.”
The Saxon Wins
r pHE Calista came in with
320 sheep from the Electoral
flocks after the Courier had
just brought 206, and there
was still room for buyers in
1828. In vain Macarthur
sneered at the new fashion.
In April 1828, the “Sydney
Gazette” recorded:
Tbe pubUc will regret that the
Honorable John Macarthur is
minus in his sales of pure Merinos
the past year, in the sum of
£4OOO or thereabouts! The Honor-
able Gentleman’s profits have
lessened, it is said, in consequence
of the recent introduction of the
Saxon breed which is....the total
eclipse of the pure Merinos.
The Agricultural Society
awarded the two Brisbane gold-
medals that year to Edward
Riley and Jones.
Hook and Forlong followed
the earlier imports. Finally the
boom was capped when even
the London wool-merchants
decided to come into the Saxon
sheep-pasturing business in
N. S. Wales.
In 1827 John Bettington and
Sons, of 8 Bank Chambers.
Lothbury, City of London,
“considerable... .importers of
foreign wool from Germany
and the Colonies of N. S.
Wales,” announced themselves
“fully convinced that the
growth of wool in N. S. Wales
may be materially increased,
and the quality equally
improved, ’’ and therefore pro-
posed “ordering their corres-
pondents in Germany to pur-
chase a considerable number
of sheep” of the most esteemed
flocks “to ship forthwith for
Sydney, accompanied by proper
shepherds and a person con-
versant with the present
method of sorting German
wools, which the growers so
much stand in need of.”
These sheep arrived just
about when the export of
N.S.W. wool reached the
million-pound mark for the first
time at the onset of the 1828
drought and just before the
great depression of 1829
onwards, which sent the wool-
market all over the world into
the doldrums and particularly
hit the German and Polish
industries, with their expensive
and intensive methods of
husbandry.
“They All Thwart Me”
With the Bettington ship-
ment, the last of the decisive
Saxon influx, came old
Frederick Bracker, afterwards
of Rosenthal and Warroo (Q.).
He came in 1828 at a time when
buyers were paying up to 100
guineas for Saxon rams. He
lived to a time when the word
Saxon was almost forgotten by
the ordinary grazier.
His son, Harry, second
white child born on the Darling
Downs, the bosom friend of
Jimmy Tyson, a director of
Moreheads in Brisbane, one of
the best judges of bush-cattle
ever born, survived till 1936.
The writer of this article knew
him well for 25 years and
often* heard his tales of the
Saxon sheep.
John Macarthur, whose tired
brain was rapidly weakening
under the strain of contention
and illness, firmly refused to
introduce Saxon sheep into his
flocks, asserting always the
superiority of his own. If he
privately admitted that he was
wrong he kept his thoughts
to himself.
Harry Bracker had a story
from his father which might
be true, having regard to the
man and his condition.
According to him, Frederick
Bracker, soon after his arrival,
visited Camden Park, and there
in the yard by the cottage he
encountered an old, mad figure
who greeted him in a wheedling
tone :
“Mr. Bracker, could you get
me one of the Bettington lamb
rams? Wouldn’t use the
wretch. Just want to observe
the mongrel.”
“No, Mr. Macarthur, I can-
not do that. They would not
let me.”
“You could lose it on the
road.”
“No, I would not do that.”
The old, queer fellow turned
away (said Bracker) and
suddenly rushed to the bell
which still stands in the old
Camden cottage-yard. Seiz-
ing the rope he rang it savagely
in a sort of paroxysm and
above its clangor rose his shrill
voice: “They all thwart me!
They all thwart me!”
Australia Triumphs
John Macarthur died in
1834. His flock remained pure
Merino so long as it. existed—•
or exists, for some of the
original bfood was brought
back to Camden from Vic-
toria long after it had been
sold-out in 1849.
By that year the Saxon blood
had permeated most of the
flocks in Australia, with con-
siderable impact on the nature
and weight of fleeces.
The statistics of 1849 tell the
story. In that year, the end of
the “Hungry Forties,” as gold
was about to take the front-
seat for a time in Australian
output of wealth, the import
of Spanish wool into London
had fallen to a mere 127,0001 b.
The Germans were send-
ing to the London market
12,750,0001 b.; Australia,
35,879,1711 b. Australian wool
was acknowledged as the
world’s best.


■
f *. * >X<
OVER
2
SERVICE TO THE WOOL INDUSTRY
A long association with Australia's most important
industry means many things, among these are experience,
and knowledge of every phase of the wool business.
A.N.Z. Bank is equipped to give expert service to wool
growers, wool brokers and wool buyers.
Overseas travel bookings and advice about overseas
markets are included in the complete range of banking
services offered by A.N.Z. Bank. A call or enquiry from
you will be welcomed at any branch of the Bank.
A-N-Z
»* * <
AN Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
ANZ453.2458
these “weld-points” the fibres
were generally bare of resin.
Clearly, it is this bonding
together of the fibres whicn
prevents felting.
Cheaper substances that
might replace the resin used, in
the new process are now being
studied. Mr. Jackson told the
recent International Wool
Textile Research Conference
of the successful outcome of
experiments based on the use
of casein, the principal ,pro-
tein of milk, as an anti-belting
agent. Subsequent treatment
with formaldehyde hardened
the casein deposit on the Übres,
with the result that the original
resistance to alkalis and the
tensile strength of the wool
were increased. At the same
time shrinkage of the fabric
due to felting was virtually
elimipated. The commercial
possibilities of these laboratory
results are now being explored.
Si-ro-set Creases and Pleats
All wool materials can now
be treated so that they will
retain creases or pleats after
prolonged use of garments,
even if they have been allowed
to become wet. Research at
the C.S.LR.O. wool-textile
research laboratory at Geelong
has led to the development
of a cheap and simple process.
Large-scale production of gar-
ments with durable creases has
already started.
When the first International
Wool Textile Research Con-
ference was held in Australia
in 1955 the desirability of u.
cheap and effective durable-
creasing process was emphas-
ised. Several methods for
setting wool were known. In
the only one used commer-
cially fabrics were, treated with
steam or boiling water. This
treatment, known as “blowing”
or “crabbing,” stabilised wool-
fabrics to the wet-treatments
used in finishing. All the
known methods required rather
long processing-times and
would be unsuitable for use in
fixing creases or pledts. Manu-
facturers of men’s trousers,
with whom the question was
discussed, set a limit of 30
seconds’ process-time for any
method to be acceptable.
The new process has resulted
from investigations in the last
two years by Dr. A. J. Farn-
worth. He was able to follow-
up the results of recent
research on wool in Australia
and other countries. This has
led to increased understanding
of the way in which protein
molecules are built 7 up into
wool-fibres, and has opened
the way to chemical modifica-
tion of fibre-properties. Dr.
Farnworth examined the
possibility that a chemical
treatment might be used to
change the fibres so that wool-
fabrics would hold creases:
An important part of Dr.
Farnworth’s work was a s&ries
of experiments with single
wool-fibres. The fibres were
stretched by a known amount
and treated with various
chemicals which were able to
affect the protein molecules.
After treatment the fibres
were immersed in boiling water
and changes in length
measured. \
Dr. Farnworth found ffhat
extended fibres treated for
very short times with boiling
solutions of ammonium-
thioglycollate a chemical
used in permanent-waving—-
remained almost at the
stretched length when subse-
quently released in boiling
water. He was able to show
that the combined action of
ammonium-thioglycollate, heat
and water allowed rapid
rearrangement of the com-
ponent parts of the fibres and
fixed them in their new
positions.
As a result of these single-
fibre experiments, tests were
made in the use of ammonium-
thioglycollate on woven
o Continued on page 85)


YOUR WOOL
THIS YEAR?
Why don’t you. too, take advantage of LONDON
SPOT DEMAND? London is the great wool
outlet for all Britain and the mainland of Europe.
The buyers are often Principals, who are not
restricted by, rigid buying limits, and are mindftrl
of the quick delivery of their London purchases.
REMEMBER....
• INSURANCE, sheep’s back to store.
• CLASSING facilities if required.
• A GREATER NUMBER OF ACTIVE
BUYERS.
• QUICK RETURN OF PROCEEDS.
CONTACT....
LONDON
WOOL BROKERS
7 Phillip St., Sydney ’Phone BU 5927
Offices In AH Capital Cities.
Agencies Throughout Australia.
close the stable-door until after
the horse is out, and it will be
recalled that prior to March,
1951, there was a most spec-
tacular rise in the wool-market,
which then collapsed, causing
much financial hardship
throughout the world to those
interested in that particular
commodity; and it must be
borne in mind that wool is
normally paid for in sterling
currency.
It was after this 1951 dis-
aster that varying interests set
about establishing a wool-tops
futures market in London to
protect those with sterling
interests. In March, 1953, the
London Wool Terminal Market
Association was formed, its
regulations and trading rules
having been prepared by a for-
mation committee representa-
tive of the wool trade of the
United Kingdom.
The London Market
The market is located in
Plantation House, Mincing
Lane, London, and it opened
for trading on April 29, 1953.
At the time certain sections
of the Bradford trade were
opposed to it, preferring to
deal in the old-established
system of forward selling; but
it is interesting to note how
rapidly London has grown;
today it is the largest market
of its kind in the.world, and
on occasions the volume of
trading per day on London is
in excess of the combined total
of the other world wool-futures
markets, and considerable use
of the market is made by
Bradford interests.
It should be recorded here
that every contract tradgd on
the futures market in London
is guaranteed by the London
Produce Clearing House, a
very large organisation with
tremendous financial assets,
which not only deals in wool-
futures, but also in cocoa,
shellac and other commodities.
Dealing in Promises
Perhaps here mention should
be made of the legal position
concerning futures trading, and
that is if the obligation under
a contract is not to deliver the
subject-matter of sale, but
merely to pay differences, then
such-a contract is clearly a con-
tract by way of gaming,, and
wagering, and therefore not
enforceable by law.
On the other hand, if the
contract itself creates the obli-
gation to deliver, then it is not
a wagering contract but » a
good commercial contract and
is valid and enforceable in all
States of the Commonwealth.
The London Produce Clearing
House being the guarantor of
all contracts, both buying and
selling, - such contracts - are
therefore legal.
Futures markets are not
meant as delivery markets;
normally less than 2 per cent,
of contracts, traded are actu-
ally delivered. As mentioned
before, the market dgals in
promises, and*a seller sells a
promise to deliver 50001 b.
weight of Merino top at a fixed
price in a given month; a
buyer buys a promise to take
delivery of 50001 b. weight of
Merino top at a fixed price in
a given month.
When you sell a contract, as
in the case of a grower, you sell
a promise to deliver. To
qbviate delivery yOu ultimately
buy a contract or a promise to
take delivery in the same
month, although the price may
be different. One promise
cancels-out the other; the
difference in price being your
profit or loss on the deal.
Price Insurance
1 will deal with but two
aspects of futures trading,
.firstly from the point of view
of a woolgrower, and secondly
from that of a manufacturer.
The Australian woolgrower
spends 12 months growing
what is generally recognised as
the best wool in the world. The
income he receives from it is
determined well after the date
of shearing, at a public auction
at one of Australia’s wool-
selling centres. He does not
know until that date what his
income will be and during that
waiting time the wool-market
may have risen or fallen a con-
siderable amount, as will the
futures market in sympathy.
Until the opening of the
London Wool Firtures Market
it was very difficult for <a grower
to take advantage of the high
price being paid at auction
unless his wool was there to
receive it, and no doubt there
have been many occasions
when growers whose wool was
perhaps only partly grown
had looked at the auction
prices and hoped they would
be at that high level the day
their clip would come to
auction.
Broadly speaking, they are
now able to realise those hopes
when values are high by selling
futures contracts on the Lon-
don market to an approximate
equivalent value of what they
estimate their clip to be
worth at that time.
In the case of a grower who
has shorn and knows his
weights it is very easily deter-
mined for what amount he" can
insure his clip on the futures
market. When he sells con-
tracts it is normal practice to
sell them in a quoted month on
the market after the date his
clip is listed to come to auction.
This allows for possible
delays in coming to auction,
due to floods, industrial
trouble, etc. When he has sold
his contracts he has then
insured his clip’ fof that value
whether the market rises or
falls.
For example, a grov;er with
ICO bales of wool valued at an
average price of £lOO each has a
prospective income of £lO,OOO.
If he is able to sell futures con-
tracts for approximately the
same value, that is what he wilL
receive. Should the market
have declined 10 per cent, the
date his clip comes to auction
he will receive only £9OOO
for his wool, but be able to
buy back his futures contracts
at 10 per cent, lower value,
giving him £lOOO profit on
futures to offset against his loss
on wool.
Similarly, it must be borne
in mind that, should the market
rise 10 per cent., he will
receive £ll,OOO for his clip but
will be required to buy back
the Contracts previously sold,
which will no doubt have risen
10 per cent, in sympathy with
the wool-market.
In fact,, the grower over
recent years has been in a very
favorable position inasmuch as
the opportunity has been there
for him to select a price on
the London Futures Market,
the equivalent of which related
to greasy wool is satisfactory
to him, and to protect that
price by selling futures against
the ultimate marketing* of his
clip.
It would appear to be a
relatively straightforward trans-
action, perhaps the simplest of
all from the point of view of a
grower, to hedge or insure his
clip any time he chooses. The
decision is entirely his.
It is interesting to note that
since the opening of the
London Wool Futures Market
the price of futures has twice
reached 150 d. and twice been
as low as 103 d.
“Hedging”
Naturally enough, the wool-
grower does not consider hedg-
ing when prices are low,
{Continued on page 84)


Buckinbah Merinos breed naturally true to type. Buckinbah clip to Sept., 1957.
C A. & E. M. BOWHAY
BUCKINBAH ■— ST. GEORGE Phone St. George 8
soft earth forming a cross, with
the bait firmly pegged at the
intersection. Rabbit - traps
anchored to heavy iron bars
set in each soft approach,
Eagles, when they must walk
up to their tucker, avoid hard
ground.
Our reward after a week of
vigilance— two cawking crows
and a mangy fox.
Happy now? I said.
“Happy if I could peg
Harri.yan out for bait!” Con
said. He went on to say that
Harrigan’s idea of running a
sheep-station was to shear
everything in sight once a year,'
have a hell of a fine holiday on
the clip-cheque, then sit back
and let nature take its course
till the next clip. Also that when
Harrigan had inherited the
station as a very young man
he’d come out from the city
to. take . over. On receipt of
the first wool-cheque he’d dis-
appeared and nothing was
heard of him for six months,
Then his manager got a wire
from the city: Shear them
again. Urgent.
TN Taialba, Con introduced
1 me to a big, good-looking
bloke called McGregor who
obviously had abo. blood. He’d
been in Con’s battalion in the
Kaiser’s war. Con, incidentally,
won the D.C.M. at Buflecourt.
A man’s man and modest about
it, like most heroes. A gentle
and kindly man with a have-a-
8° look in his eyes and as
tough as a mulga-root.
Getting back to the half-
caste McGregor : One night in
a French bistro about 1917,
Con, McGregor and Luiz, son
of Taialba’s Portuguese baker,
broke off diplomatic relations
with a superior force cf
American troops. Luiz fell
early in the fight. Con and
McGregor battled on fiercely
and emerged victorious.
It must have been an im-
pressive donnybrook, for it was
mentioned in detail in lettei s
home. In the main street of
Taialba three old men squatted
under a pepper-tree discussing
the news from France. Reading
letters.
“Some fight they had,” said
the Portuguese4)aker.
“Portugal was weak,” said
Con’s dad, “but I see McGregor
was strong.”
“And so he should have
been! ” said old McGregor with
fire in his eye. “He’s got blue
blood in his veins—his mother
Was the Queen of Brewarrina!”
T3ETWEEN Con’s place and
Taialba a tall, white-haired
old-timer ran a holding. He
looked like a Kentucky colonel
from the blue-grass country,
and he loved good horses. His
homestead was a broken-down
affair. The walls slanted
slightly and the corrugated-iron
roof lifted 'noisily at one
corner when the khamsin blew.
A battered Ford took scanty
shelter under a nearby wilga.
As far as looks went, how-
ever, there was nothing broken-
down about old Darcy’s prize
possession—a big black stallion
of racing-blood. The horse had
a stable beautifully put
together and almost dustproof.
Paraded for the edification of
visitors, the. animal had a feheen
like floodlit velvet. When
Darcy rattled-off its pedigree,
which he’d do at the drop of a
hat, you’d swear he had a
Melbourne Cup in one hand
and a Caulfield in the other.
As far as I recall the recital
it went like this: By San Juan
by Don. Juan by Amphorite by
Ledorite by Carbine.
Doesn’t seem enough horsey
generations to carry-back to
Carbine, and whether all those
yarramans existed I don’t
know. But the way old Darcy
told the tale and the way he
(Continued on page 73)


m
*xo>.
:wmx»xv>,'
:■xfvwwxwM
1
❖XvSX^Vs^
x<>x<-x<->x
m
■
lIIS
II
m
mm
mm
m
m
. ■ ■■■ :
mmm
mmmi
5
»X<*>XX
m
mm*
• : ■
mmm
mmsm
I
mmm
>x< <■>>
ggssg£sH
mmm
II
sas
mm
■>y,«<<<•:
m%m
mm
mmm
mmmm
:):¥ i
ails*
55MM&2
mm»:%
mu
l
mmm
mm
mm
mt
MussmM
Mmmm
mm
mm
SSESSSS
V-x'xo
mm
a<
zmm
WmMmummmz
HMH
I I
iSll
mm
mmm
*:•:>
i n
llp§s#!gg
B&sa
pgppsBpl|tfp§
Nliilipliiiillli
SS;
mwum
mm
mum
i *
m
IHlipiiP!!
mmm
mu
m
m
mt
m
p&p|p§|
mm
Hip
5P
m
mmm
lipsspplillt
55*
These yards for 5,000 sheep were
erected in 3 weeks by only two men
Rugged Weldmesh Roll-Top sheep yard panels
will give a lifetime of service. They're fireproof,
and cost less than any other sheep yard panel on
the market. The electrically welded joints are
even stronger than the wire itself. Made from
rugged 3 gauge wire with_3 in. x 3 in. mesh . . .
galvanised or plain in standard lengths.
For further details contact your
local storekeeper or
ENGINEERING CO. PTY. LTD.
VISIT OUR STAND
AT THE 1958 SHEEP SHOW
N.S.W. OFFICE :
George Street, Homebush. UF3311
A Member of the
Group of Companies
given to Swan Hill’s Shak-
spearian Festival when it was
first launched 10 years , ago.
A Famous Sheepwoman
In a direct way, too, some
of the women pioneers, as well
as playing their part as home-
makers, took an active hand
in promoting the growth
of the wool industry. An out-
Standing example was Mrs.
John Furlonge, to whose
memory a stone monument
representing a woolpack was
many years ago erected on the
roadside near Euroa.
She was a Scotswoman,
descendant of a hardy, pioneer-
j ng breed To give her e i dest
son, William, the chance of
recovering his health she talked
her husband into migrating to
the warmer climate of Aus-
tralia. Before doing so she set-
off to Saxony with her two sons,
William and Andrew, to learn
all they could about wool-
growing. For four years the
trio worked at leading Merino-
studs, saving their wages, learn-
ing wool-sorting and collecting
every scrap .of knowledge they
could glean from the breeders.
Then, under Mrs. Furlonge’s
direction, they walked from
village to village, selecting
sheep and testing their wool
with special instruments to
secure only the- very best
strains.
They drove their sheep on
foot to the coast, then again
from Hull across England to
Liverpool. Settling first in Tas-
mania, the family later moved
across to Port Phillip. Eventu-
ally, following the death of her
husband and the departure of
Andrew for America, Mrs.
Furlonge and William settled
on the property at Seven
Creeks, near Euroa.
The pure - strain Saxon
Merinos they had brought out
boosted Victoria’s growing
wool industry. Using their
hard-won knowledge, the
Furlonges built-up their flocks,
and many well-known Vic-
torian studs owed much to
their sheep.


farmers in W.A. place Mr
wood
[ in good hands.. J
m- •
■ -
mam
mmm
m >
mm®
Selling wool through Wesfarmers is procticolly o trodition with
thousands of formers in Western Australia. And the number of farmers who
enjoy the benefits of this trodition grows every yeor. Perhaps it is because
Wesfarmers' wool men hove made wool their life study Perhaps it is because
their interest in their clients' welfare is o very genuine one.
Wesformers believes in the future of wool in the West. They recently
erected what mony believe to be the finest wool store in Australia.
When you think of wool in Western Australia, Wesfarmers' home
comes to mind.
That is something of a tradition, too.
WESTRALIAN
FARMERS' CO-OPERATIVE LTD., 569 Wellington Street, Perth
looked at that horse, it would
have taken a hard man indeed
to gainsay it.
“Speed in every line of
him! ” Darcy would say. “And
he’s a young horse. Just wait
till I launch him on the city
tracks. You’ll swear the rest
of ’em are just draggin’ their
anchors! ”
But the old man found
excuses to delay the debut.
“Put him in a picnic-race
around here? Never, son!
Never! Too damned rough.
He'd have his ribs busted-in
by some bloody brumby.
This feller’s far too good for
that! ”
It seemed that if the horse
were to have a go at all it
would have to be in the care
of a trainer in one of the
cities. More difficulties:
“Dammit, without me there
to keep an eye on him they
could do anything. Nobble
him, dope him, pull him and
ruin him for honest racing,
or, if he won first-up, race
him into his grave. This
feller’s far too good to let
the crooks get at him. Look
what happened to Phar Lap
the other day! ”
You’ve guessed it. Darcy
got around to believing the
horse was far too good for
everything. Some neighbors
disagreed. Clandestine
manoeuvres with mares when
the coast was clear enriched
the district with a few classy
colts and fillies. Benny the
duck-sniper was among the
beneficiaries.
Talking of horses brings
the tank-sinker back to mind.
He hove-to on Con’s place in
a covered wagon like a
prairie-schooner from the
Oregon Trail drawn by his
Clydesdale scoop-troupe and
surrounded by a remuda
of broncs that would boggle
the eyes of a Mexican
hidalgo.
His whole family lived in
the wagon. It held wife,
kids, cats, cots, double-bed,
cupboards, knick - knacks—
everything and a kitchen-
sink. Chips off the block
rode ponies on the flanks and
fore and aft of the caravan-
serai. A wiry young daugh-
ter drove a sulky with a sun-
browned tot as passenger.
Dogs trotted in the wagon’s
shade and a foal was haltered
by the tailboard.
"THE tank-sinking contract
■*- was verbal and simple.
Bill was to sink a new tank
at so much a cubic-yard, plus
grass for the horses, and a
sheep a week for meat,
Among Con’s horses was a
big grey mare in foal. She
was a clever rogue and could
open wire-looped gates and
certain sliprails. Bill the tank-
sinker spotted her one day
and i iked the look of her
." B '« brule ” he
Co "' ,
‘°..A W she's ill neh't” Con
■ , Aw ’< * LT V t
sa,d ' Good stock '.
£oa ‘ to a B°od _ horse too.
He squatted in a bit of
*‘!® a shade J, p f e d»utthe
“^ er Sta f
, , • , r ’ .
100k '”« f r ° und f ° 1 5, ( Some J! ,ing
of J? y r Q h'd
™ r . „° f C° n , had
n ° tl “ d 6,11 s to,s Salhvantmg
abom on a H cream n y ,, P ° ny Y,’ a
a nice amble. * Bill squatted
and chew ing a straw
of grass. Over years of con-
versing at 400-yards range
with his opposite teamster in
the shuttle business of
scooping-out tanks Bill had
developed a voice like the
trumpeting of a wounded
elephant. His ordinary con-
fidential tone was a hoarse
bellow. He now turned his
head and addressed the empty
scrub around him. Full
strength.
“Tom! Bring the creamy!”
A few minutes more of
desultory conversation and
the creamy cantered into
sight saddled-up and ridden
by a tatterdemalion 10-year-
old. He whoaed the pony and
sat there waiting instructions.
‘•Walk her!” The pony
walked. p
cc* .i , ,„
Amble her. The pony
ambled.
“Canter!” The pony can-
tered round the clearing like
a cncus-periormer.
“Now get way back there
in the scrub and bring her
past at a gallop!” This was
done with a banshee grin on
the 10-year-old.
“Jump on her and see what
y OU think of her,” Con told
me. she was a lovely little
thing. Armchair job. A deal
was made. Con to have the
p on y and the coming foal
f rom t he big mare. Bill to
have the big mare, first foal
from the pony and free use
G f Con’s anvil and smithy-
shed f or the duration of his
stay. Sealed with a hand-
shake,
We were soon to discover
that the pony shied near wire-
fences. Bill was soon to dis-
cover that the big mare could
°P en gates and sliprails and
other horses astray. But,
keep , ing wire-fences in mind
Con s young- uns had years of
fun oh the pony. And no
doubt Bill got value from the
big grey
tMLL had been on Gallipoli,
JJ Con got a bad wound with
his D.C.M. at Bullecourt. Prac-
tically all the Taialbans who’d
been within cooee of the right


FOR
AIR
TRAVEL
THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD
Book through
BIRT & CO.
(PTY.) LIMITED
4 Bridge Street, Sydney
80529 B 0 5 2 9
also at
312'316 Elizabeth Street,
Brisbane,
and Port Kembla, N.S.W.
age were ex-Diggers. Taffy, a
neighbor west of Con, was one
who gloried in war-time remi-
niscence. There was the
occasion when Taffy engaged
three men in Taialba to do a
fencing job.
Taffy’s truck took the crew
to the scene of operations and
Taffy immediately brewed tea
and squatted ruminating over
his pannikin. The fencing detail
followed his lead.
“By God,” said Taffy
suddenly. “It seems only like
yesterday! ”
“What does, Taffy?” said
fencer Number One.
“I’m squattin’ down like this
with a mug of tea near the
horse-lines when three Turk
planes come over. Bomb-raid.
Boy, is she a bloody beaut!”
“Gave y’ the works, eh,
Taffy?” The fencers, on day-
pay, were enjoying the turn of
events.
“The works?” yelled Taffy,
“Me hair turned grey! A
bomb hits fifty yards away
and the horses go mad. I pick
meself up and hang on to four
or five of ’em . . .” (Taffy
leaped to his feet and frenziedly
held four or five imaginary
horsed.) “A bomb hits here
[Taffy, with sweat pouring
off him, gestured violently down
at the hard-baked Taialban
earth] and doesn’t go off!”
“Gorstruth, Taffy! ”
“A bomb hits there, and
there [Taffy’s upflung arms
mimed the bomb-bursts] and
I can hear a couple more
sere aimin’ down close. I’m still
hangin’ on to the horses
[Taffy hung on to them again]
and in comes a Turk plane
mane-high, strafin’!” (Taffy
pointed his forefingers, cocked
his thumbs and “br-r-r-r-r-r-d”
at his squatting audience.)
“Wish I still had me old hat.
Show y’ the bloody hole!”
“Jeez, Taffy . . .” The
audience was getting restive
under the strain. But the bomb-
raid, an all-time record for
duration, went on and on.
Fencing began to seem a most
desirable way of passing the
time. At knock-off time, ear-
drums singing, battle-weary
and not a posthole sunk, the
fencers asked to be driven
back to Taialba and peace.
Taffy obliged in some mystifi-
cation, but managed to tie-up
a few loose ends in his tale on
the way in. Then cast about
for a new crew.
Bill the tank-sinker, by the
way, had been adopted as a
small boy by a ’sinker called
Big Hariy. Also called, with
good reason, the roughest man
round Taialba. And that was
going some. Big Harry was
about six-feet-four by a yard
wide by a yard thick. He had
a voice, for want of a better
word, that could out-boom
Bill’s any time over any
distance. The year Big Harry
adopted young Bill he also
picked up a female tot travelling
with a circus. Fleur and Bill
grew up together on Big Harry’s
prairie-schooner and among
Big Harry’s horses. There was
a Mrs. Harry, but no other
children.
Fleur grew into a raven-
haired beauty. A hint of the
Islands about her. She needed
only a red hibiscus over one
ear. She swam like a fish and
could win any of the races
held from time to time in the
big tank near Taialba. Big
Harry was a zealous guardian
and drove-off several male
Taialbans with a stockwhip.
It needed a brave man to go
after Fleur.
Fleur became, a heartbreaker
. . . and a horsebreaker. She
was a fiery rider and loved fiery
horses. She loved to be on a
horse, either bucking to high
heaven or trying a full-stretch
bolt. Saw her once bareback
on a raw stallion. They
thundered past with the
stallion’s mane and tail and
Fleur’s black hair streaming
in the wind. A sight that sticks
in the mind.
A couple of broken legs take
the fire out of a good many
horsebreakers. But after Fleur
recovered from her second
splintered thigh Big Harry
needed all the strength in his
lungs to talk her out of having
another go.
4 boarded the train at Taialba
one day for the long voyage
to the city. At the last moment
Big Harry turned - up and
shoved Fleur into the dogbox.
“Look after ’er on the trip,
will ya?” he roared at me.
There was a burst of laughter
up and down the platform that
should have raised the red dust.
Fleur could have looked after
all hands and Big Harry in any-
thing from an all-in fight to
throwing a steer by jiu-jitsu.
A big, good-looking bloke
met Fleur on the city station
at the end of that trip. One
look at the greeting she gave
him and the disembarking
TaialbanS knew they’d lost
Fleur for ever. A couple of
times a year after that she used
to come out there to see Bill and
Big Harry and Mrs. Harry.
Her husband never came with
her. Perhaps Taialba was too
far for him.
In leaving Big Harry, . his
cure-all should be recorded:
Branding-oil for cuts, bruises,
abrasions and constipation.
TOE FLEMING started as a
blacksmith’s sidekick in
Taialba, and at the age of 26
had his own shop and a reputa-
tion for making some first-
class farm-machinery. He also
made enlarged magazines for
repeating-rifles and was known
as a dead-shot. His Dad was a
charming old fellow who’d been
around a lot and had at one
time been a professional croc.-
shooter up north. Now he was
a garage accountant. Joe lived
at home with his Mum, Dad
and a brace of teenage sisters.
A nice family, and friends of
Con’s. Sometimes when in the
township for a day or two
1 stayed with them and got to
know Joe pretty well.
Joe was a steady bloke, weil
liked, modest about his rare
mechanical flair. He was clear-
ing about £l4 a week, had
bought a house and was
furnishing it. Soon he and bis
girl planned to be married and
move in.
One hot afternoon I went
for a walk round the
environs with Joe, and he
carried a rifle with his own
modified magazine. Passing a
rubbish-dump he upped with
it, still walking, and made a
jam-tin dance and jump till the
magazine was empty. He had
me chuck another tin up and
riddled it as it fell.
Johnson had a largish store
and was complaining around
town about thefts. The thiev-
ing had been going on over a
period, and it was thought
someone was breaking in at
night. A young constable new
to Taialba was planted in the
store one night to wait and
watch. No luck that first night,
but he' stuck at it, and a few
nights later his vigil was
rewarded. The constable flashed
a torch on the intruder, recog-
nised him and immediately
fired at him. The intruder rah
from the store and died in the
dust outside. Joe Fleming’s
reputation for marksmanship
had proved his death-warrant
Joe, well-off, popular, gifted
and with the best things in
life ahead of him, was a


fsy Appointment
H. W. King
Jrrederik IX
By Appointment
to the late
Kina George VI
By Appointment
to H. M. King
Gustav VI Aaoif
By Appointment
to H. M. the
Queen'of t
Nether
I* cu
CHW
mi,;; •{KiifiS
2§Was»
Cherry
Heering
|ian IBIS Danmark)
liqueur delight
for your after
dinner enjoymenf
Oittf*
tit**' .
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—SWIFT & MOORE LTD.
klept». And in the true tradi-
tion of tragedy he unwittingly
took his own life. He was
killed not for theft but for
being a dead-shot.
Well, it took a lot of practice.
Con’s place had quite a bit
of bird-life. A pet emu called
Fred who used to exercise at
40 m.p.h. in ever-decreasing
concentric circles round the
homestead before finally for-
aging for ferrous titbits in the
smithy shed. About 50 white
leghorns who ran wild and
spent half their time airborne
because Con trained his kelpie
pups on them. And a pink-
and-grey galah in both senses
who, on the order “Aero-
plane,” would spread his
pinions and try to look like
Kingsford Smith’s Southern
Cross.
When poultry was wanted
for the table it was Con’s cus-
tom to recline at eas.e on the
veranda with a rifle and an
eye on the nearer fowls.
Their fore-and-aft head move-
ment was tricky, as Con liked
to hit ’em in the head. So
he’d wait for a dead-astern
shot.
Mrs. Con had the idea' of
a more suburban approach to
the poultry and was Working
hard at it. So hard that Con
gave-in and decided for the
sake of peace and quiet to
make a fowlrun. An order
went to Johnson of the store
for wirenetting. The kan-
garoo-car was pushed out into
the early-morning sunlight
and the kero.-cans hanging on
its' flanks were filled with
water. Oil, petrol, rifles,
sandwiches and tea went
aboard. It was an auspicious
occasion. We set out from a
smiling household on a rain-
bow search for a straight
corner-post.
f
A S most of the sparse
timber was drought-
tortured box, belar, wilga,
mulga and bluebush, it was a
far-flung search. From one
angle a tree looked straight,
from another it looked like
a boomerang. The day wore
on. We gave it away for an
hour and made tea. Knocked-
off the sandwiches and had
smoko - siesta. Got going
again. About mid-afternoon
spotted a lone cypress-pine.
Perfect from all angles! We
crashed along towards it in
triumph. Downed it, stripped
h, lashed it along the side of
the car to a windscreen
stanchion for’ard and an old
hood-bracket aft. Headed for
home and hosannas.
Then we ran into the ’roos.
“After ’em!” Con yelled and
trod on the pedal. The old
Maxwell revved slowly up. to
’roo-speed and the chase was
on. Con singled-out a big
blue bloke and we tore
through the scrub after him.
We battered through the
wilga and mulga and the trees
battered right back. Cross-
ing a clearing we bounced
high over a broken-down ant-
hill and the bonnet rose off
the engine and flapped away
like a crow.
“Get it later,” Con shouted.
“Often does that.”
When we pulled up to put
the dead ’roo aboard there
was something else missing
our pride apd joy, the
corner-post! The only sign
of its passing was the old hood-
bracket turned inside-out.
Then the kangaroo-car vented
its spleen by jamming in low-
gear for the rest of the journey.
Our tardy and postless return
roused no handclaps at the
homestead, and Mrs. Con’s
fowls enjoyed a new lease of
freedom.
In good seasons the Taial-
ban plains became parklike.
The normally bone-dry billa-
bong systems, called cowals,
were filled, iakes appeared and
the birds came in thousands.
You’d see the different varie-
ties wheeling over the big lake
in black layers at different
levels jight up to where the
eagles turned at some dizzy
height high above the lot,
remote and deadly.'
The grass turned green and
grew knee-high and wild pigs
pounded through it. Brolgas
cavorted and Con’s cat learned
to get duck. Frogs croakeff
and—an equal myst e r y—
fish appeared in the tanks.
Fish and yabbies. *
All this, however, didn’t
happen every year. I got wet
in the rain once at Taialba.
Mostly it was a case of staring
into the hot blue sky, hoping
to spot a cloud. - A bit like
Columbus at the bowsprit
looking for land. Sometimes
several tiny thunderstorms
travelled across the - plain in
mighty loose formation, look-
ing like wandering mush-
rooms. . ’Roos would crowd
any green spots resulting.
More often there were travel-
ling columns of dust. We
were watching these one day
from Con’s veranda and Taffy
was with us.
“Reminds me of when I
was drovin’ round Darwin and
the Katherine,” Taffy said.
“One time I had to take a
mob clear down to Bourke on
agistment.”
“Mob of what, Taffy?” said
Con.
“Dust-storms, o’ course.
Talk about strife! Never -
slept night and day f’r weeks,
Break and go at the drop of
a hat, those fellers.”
“How’d you get on?”
“No bloody good!” Taffy
wound-up the yarn. “Held’em
together right down to the Darl-
ing. Soon as they hit the river
they broke inter willy-willies
and got clean away!”
"F.S.F." RECORD-PRICED RAM
A Queensland breeder paid
4500 guineas on May 20
for the 4y-years-old Boonoke
special-stud Merino ram No.
84.1.
This is highest price ever
paid by a Queensland stud for a
ram. The buyers were Malvern
Hills Merino Stud, Blackall.
This sale is also a record for
c t- „ „ .
IrL• ram-breeding
“ lon '
Iwo sons of No. 84.1 are
included among the Boonoke
rams being offered at the 1958
Sydney ram-sales. One of these
is the first special-stud ram in
N.Z. Loans catalogue (No.
86.16) and the other is the
second stud ram in Elder
Smith’s catalogue (No. 86.30).
The Boonoke team for
Sydney comprises seven special-
stud rams for sale in N.Z.
Loan’s catalogue, and five stud
rams in each C.W.P.-Elder’s
and Dalgety’s catalogues. The
Wanganella Estate Stud is
presenting a team of three
special-stud rams and three
stud rams in Dalgety and Co.’s
catalogue, two special and four
stud rams with A.M.L. and F.,
and five stud rams in Golds-
brough Mort’s catalogue,
From the same owners’ Poll
B °onoke Stud are 12 stud
rams with Dalgety’s, and'l6
£ h , 5 M ' L ' a , nd F ;. T "° ° f
the latter are from the No. 2
Po „ Boonoke Stud .
F. S. Falkiner and Sons made
history this month with the
purchase of Wanganella Stud
and property (which will be
continued as a separate unit in
the F.S.F. Stud flocks) and
they have made further history
by the purchase of Springleigh
station, near Blackall, in
Queensland, where portion of
the Boonoke Stud is to be
transferred at an early date
for the “on the spot” breeding
and delivery of Boonoke rams
to Queensland clients, in con-
junction with the company’s
existing ram-depot at Cleevc,
near Longreach.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND ITS
RED MILL RUM.
Sydney Racing
Next Tuesday (the first Tues-
day in June) is an important
day in racing circles —that’s
the day nominations close for
the spring handicaps and the
classics, including the Derbys,
and also for the top two-year-
old events. The A.J.C. will
accept entries for its Derby,
Breeders’ Plate, Gimcrack
Stakes, Epsom Handicap
and Metropolitan. Rand-
wick’s spring meeting will be
held on October 4,6, 8 and
11. Weights for the main
handicap double will be issued
on Monday, July 21, on which
day the Caulfield Cup and the
Melbourne Cup imposts also
will be available. This year the
Melbourne Cup is again worth
£15,500.
It was here forecast (May
14) that country owners and
trainers would be winning
metropolitan races while the
better-class gallopers were on
the easy list. Three country
gallopers duly won at Canter-
bury Park on Saturday. Col-
valley had won there three days
before scoring in the Campsie
Stakes on Saturday, when
Buddong landed the main race,
the Canterbury Handicap, and
Yendor easily won the Welter.
Buddong has won 16 races
from 34 starts and was rather
a bargain-buy at the 200gns.
he cost at the 1954 Randwick
yearling-sales. Most of his wins
have been in southern districts,
chiefly in the Wagga area, and
he finished a close second to
Flash Gem in the Wagga Cup
on April 30. Buddong is a five-
year-old entire by Kerry Piper
(imp.) from Eviction by Double
Remove (imp.). Family-lines
include those top performers
of other days Artilleryman,
Valicare and Folly Queen.
Buddong’s time, 1.58.8, was a
race-record.
Yendor, winner of several
races in the central-western
districts of N.S.W., had previ-
ously won twice this season at
Canterbury and had also won
at Cowra on April 19. He was a
fast - finishing second to
Greater three days before his
good win in Saturday’s Welter,
in which he again finished fast
from eighth place near the half-
mile.
Colvalley’s win at the
midweek Canterbury fixture
pointed to excellent prospects
in the Campsie Stakes even
though he’d gone up sharply to
9st. Apprentice R. Williams
won both races on Colvalley,
some of whose country wins
had been at Albury, Tumut and
Gundagai.
Two Canterbury favorites,
Jazz Singer and New Spec,
started at what proved ridicu-
lous odds, 5-to-2 on. Both
were beaten, though Jazz
Singer only just missed. His
stablemate Regal Fair led all
the way in the Two-year-old
Handicap, lasting long enough
to get the verdict by a short
head. The noise which fol-
lowed was- akin to Cracker
Night celebrated a few hours
later, the main difference being
that the afternoon participants
weren’t so happy.
T. J. Smith, who trains both
Regal Fair and Jazz Singer,
told the stewards he expected
Jazz Singer to win—he had
plenty of backers with a simi-
lar opinion—and hadn't given
M. Schumacher (Regal Fair)
any instructions. Apprentice R.
Tunsted, on Jazz Singer, erred
in his judgment and lost the
race narrowly. The stewards
told the youngster he had
ridden a bad race. Still, the
winner broke race-record time
by best part of a second.
In the Flying Handicap New
Spec was heavily supported
from 6-to-4 on to 5-to-2 on, but
after being in the lead to the
straight he faded quickly to be
fifth at the finish —a poor run
for such a hot favorite.
Nearest, who easily won the
First Ashbury Stakes at'
Canterbury, hasn’t been long
in Frank Dalton’s Randwick
stables, but he’d won several
races in Newcastle before
coming to the city. He was
helped by an allowance claim
of 31b. for apprentice G.
Howard. Bought at the 1954
Randwick yearling-sales for
310gns., Nearest is related to a
former sprinter of note, San
Domenico, who won in the
best handicap and weight-for-
age company.
N.Z. trainer A. D. (Doug)
Webster hasn’t many horses in
his team at the moment, but
he has won recently with No
Boots in the Canterbury Fly-
ing Handicap anid, earlier, at
the Canterbury midweek fix-
ture with outsider May Day.
Webster confidently supported
No Boots, who had won in
similar company at Warwick
Farm two starts previously
when weighted at 7.8; with
7.7 she appeared nicely placed.
Apprentice R. Williams rode
her well and the mare went on
to touch-off 250-to-l chance
Damaji. No Boots wasn’t
entered for the big sprints in
Brisbane in June and July
because her trainer considered
she wasn’t class enough.
Apprentice R. Williams is
having a successful season.
Wins at Canterbury last week
on Colvalley (two) and No
Boots brought his total for the
season to 21, including a dead-
heat for first. He also has
been in minor places 41 times,
and there are 217 unplaced runs
against his name. However,
J. Thompson has had 251 un-
placed rides and R. Selkrig 250.
Williams is the leading appren-
tice claiming an allowance, and
it may not be long before he
loses his 31b. advantage.
Some owners give a racehorse
a name arrived at by using part
of that of the sire and of the
dam, generally a poor stab at
a title. Very rarely does a
poorly named galloper rise
above the ordinary so far as
race-form is concerned. This
is the naming part of the
season, and owners and
trainers should give a lot of
thought to the matter. They
will find ready assistance from
the A.J.C. registration staff.
Newcastle Juvenile winner
Macfay, at the latest meeting
of the coalfields club,
apparently got his name, from
portion of that of his joint
owners a new departure
and one which shouldn’t be
encouraged.
On form shown in races at
Randwick—seconds to Meerut
and to New Farm .and a
Canterbury third to Gondolier
—Destiny Bay looked a fair
thing for the midweek Canter-
bury Park Graduation Stakes
for two-year-olds, and proved
an easy winner. Destiny
Bay, who hadn’t started since
last Boxing Day, is a pro-
duct of Woodlands Stud, Den-
man. The colt is by Damnos
(Fr.) from Kismet, and is a
brother to Fate, a winner at
Randwick. His half-sister
Penarth also won races, at
Randwick.
• • • •
Canterbury Maiden winner
Ronern, half-brother to the
grey Permel and to Persian Lad,
had shaped promisingly in
Graduation Stakes company.
He’s a three-year-old gelding by
Charleval (Fr.) from Melcovent
by Melfort (imp.).
Country jockey C. Kelly, who
rode Walcha Lass, a 'four-
year-old mare by Royal Andrew
from Baraganda by Baroda,
in a recent win at Gosford, is
steadily building-up a good
reputation at city and pro-
vincial meetings. He also won
on Lazare at Gosford.
“P.0.M.C.”: That after 525
races at 73 meetings in and
around Sydney this season only
one (G. Moore) of 17 listed
jockeys shows a profitable
return on the £1 basis to thick-
and-thin followers confirms the
folly of putting one’s trust in
princes especially on the
Turf. Moore has ridden two
winners in every seven mounts
and two winners to one of his
nearest rival, A. Mulley. By
way of postscript, both these
riders are at present “out” for
careless ridine.
* * *
“Smithie”: To stimulate flag-
ging attendances at Perth race-
meetings the W.A. Turf Club
is to reintroduce hurdle-racing
(over Brush Hurdles) on August
16. The move has aroused


STRONGER
V.
TEMPERED
LIKE STEEL
Goodyear's ex-
clusive
process, involving
Tension, Temperature and
Triple Tempers cord to
to give
'g' T
Time,
make it Triple-tough
you long tyre life.
LAST LONGER
3*T strength inside is
matched on the outside by
the toughest tread yet devel-
oped. Created in a design
that gives outstanding grip
and on-the-road efficiency
under all conditions-, the
Twin Tread gives safe miles
—more miles!
i
tout
ml)
TYRES GIVE MORE MILES
Goodyear research men discovered and developed
3*T! Goodyear tyre designers and engineers
created the revolutionary TWIN TREAD! Exclusive
to Goodyear both of them they combine to
make 3*T Custom Super-Cushion the greatest
mile-giving tyre ever known. You get more miles
thousands more! You get greater safety, surer
running. You get the most modern tyres you can
buy when you fit Goodyear 3«T Custom Super-
Cushion. See your Goodyear dealer to-day!
good/year
Custom Super/cushion
it BUY DEPENDABLE GOODYEAR BATTERIES FOR 15% MORE POWER LIFE
CO67C


•BLADDER WEAKNESS
Many men, women - and
children are unhappy and
embarrassed, because they
suder from this common
complaint.
Thanks to new discoveries
in this field we can now
treat this complaint with
success.
Write to'.
CAVENDISH LABORATORIES
< A/SIA) lit I*., DEPT. A.
Bov 'JIIBT, Melbourne, Vietoria
Divorce Notice
NOTICK OF CITATION
IN THE SI PKEME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO EDWARD JAMES WILSON late of
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that ALBERT
SPARKS has tiled a Petition for Divorce
No. 11!) of 10.')8 on the ground of your
adultery with NANCY ELLEN SPARKS
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance’ at the Divorce Office
Mint lluilding Macquarie Street Sydney
by the 11th day of August 1958 and
obtain a oopv of the Petition without
charge from THOMAS LESLIE
BLATCHFORII, 81 Elizabeth Street,
■Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
BALD PATCHES
Hit i r grown secret formula
Sacred Eastern Oils. Rarely
fails. Treats Alopecia. Leading
broadcaster’s Pair grown after
years of Baldness. Effective
treatment for dandruff (Basic
cause of nearly all hair sick-
ness). and -stops falling hair.
My herhal treatment restores
grey hair to original colour.
Not. a dye—not injurious, not
obvious. Names given of lead-
ing citizens (with their per-
mission) who gratefully testify.
My treatment used in privacy
of your home.
For free advice write—
MRS. A. EASTON,
Box 5204, G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE
much interest among owners
and trainers. Hurdle-races
were last held in Perth more
than 20 years ago.
>:= * *
—and Melbourne
Most significant run at the
M.R.C.’s meeting at Caulfield
last Saturday came from a
horse who finished well down
the running. Freshened up
since his autumn campaign,
Sailor’s Guide reappeared in
the first division of the mile
Loddon Welter. Carrying the
“stopper” of 10.5 on a rain-
soaked track, “Sailor” took a
couple of furlongs to unwind,
stretched out in his best style
from the six until the furlong-
post, and then tired for lack of
a run. Owners, the father-and-
son combination A. C. and K.
Dibb, said after the race that
“Sailor” would have his next
start in the Ipswich Cup on
Saturday week. His main mis-
sion in Brisbane will be the
Doomben Cup, and he will be
the horse to beat for that rich
prize.
This year—as in most other
years —two-year-olds have been
running true to form on all
Melbourne courses. However,
in the first division of the
Murray Handicap, a seven-
furlongs event for two-year-
olds, bookmakers had a dream
result. Form indicated that the
race lay l between Mirabeau and
Smokey Jane, with 15 to 1 bar
those two on offer. To the
delight of the bagmen the
unfancied Djafar colt Bygold
easily outstayed the favorite
pair.
The winner is a real bargain
horse. He cost h s owner, K.
Gregory, a bare 70gns. By-
gold’s sire, Djafar, a son of the
great French horse Djebel, was
brought to Australia at a high
price by a syndicate of racing-
men, but has not been the
success expected at the stud.
Dam of Bygold, Woven Gold
is a Solar Bear mare, which
accounts for By gold’s good
showing on the heavy track at
Caulfield. The Solar Bear
stock are renowned mudlarks.
The bookmakers’ luck did
not continue into the second
division of the Murray Handi-
cap. The big N.Z.-bred gelding
Sumner, a warm first-choice in
the race, proved much too good
for his opponents. At 17
hands, Sumner is one of the
biggest horses racing in Mel-
bourne. It is a bit early yet to
say just how good he is. He
has started only four times,
and has won his last two races
well. Owner W. R. Kemball
believes he'll prove a top-class
performer.
Indications are that this will
not be a vintage year for
jumping horses in Melbourne.
Racegoers look to the M.R.C.
jumping double, the M.R.C.
Hurdle and Steeplechase, to
provide a lead to the Nationals,
but if the National winners
were seen at Caulfield last
Saturday they certainly will
not measure up to the jumping
stars of past years.
. Haydon Day took the
M.R.C. Hurdle. The win was a
reward for consistent form.
The five-year-old gelded son of
Delville Wood had run second
at each of his three previous
hurdle-starts. Undoubtedly he
will be a strong fancy for the
Grand National Hurdle, and
possibly he will win it. He is
a better-class horse than most
jumpers, and is a handicap
winner on the flat ; but he is
not the best of jumpers, and ,
the Flemington hurdles find
out any jumping weakness,
This page’s early fancy for
the National Hurdle is Lord
Celere,' despite that horse’s
failure in the M.R.C. Hurdle.
Lord Celere clouted a hurdle
heavily in last Saturday’s race,
but normally he is a good
jumper and likes the Fleming-
ton country.
The M.R.C. Steeple winner
was Pagranoma, and it is a fair
indication of the class engaged
in the race that Pagranoma, a
seven-year-old Solar Bear
gelding, scored his first win
ever. The' one reason for his
success was that he can lob
along at the same pace almost
indefinitely. He was many
lengths from the lead for the
first circuit of the course, but
the 2 miles 3 furlongs of
the race tested the early
leaders, and Pagranoma was
able to see the distance out
better than any other runner.
Before this win Pagranoma’s
best performance was a distant
second to Pedro’s Pride in the
Australian Steeple last year.
Unless a good-class steeple-
chaser shows-up in the next
couple of weeks there is no
reason why his doggedness
coulH not win the National
Steeple for Pagranoma this
year.
The combination of owner
W. R. Kemball, trainer Ken
Hilton and jockey Geoff Lane
which was associated with
Sumner’s success got a double
when top-class three-year-old
Lord brilliantly won the six-
furlongs Flinders Handicap
for three-year-olds at Caulfield.
Lord is an N.Z.-bred gelding by
the French horse Targui, and,
oddly enough, Kemball won
the same. race last year with
another Targui gelding, Wales.
Lord has been a wonderful
money-spinner this time up,
winning three of his last four
races, the Victoria Handicap
among them. There is no
doubting his class.
The pony-sized Delville
Wood gelding Famed put in a
promising run in the Flinders.
Not in the call at the straight
entrance, Famed finished with
great dash into third place.
A placegetter in last year’s
Caulfield Guineas, Famed likes
a longer distance than the six
furlongs of the Flinders, and
should win a race very soon.
It was -a day of multiple
successes at Caulfield. Geoff
Lane made it a treble when
he won the first division of
the Loddon Welter on Far-
quhar. Lane’s score for the
season is now 36| winners, and
he looks like setting record
figures for an apprentice before
the season ends. Bill William-
son rode a double at Caul-
field, and trainer Fred Hoysted
also had a good day —he pre-
pared hurdle-winner Haydon
Day and the winner of the
second Loddon, Chief Wongo.
A lot was expected from
Chief Wongo, a handsome
black gelding by Underwood
from St. Anne, when he won
a couple of races at Caulfield
in the summer. Indeed, he
was hailed as a Caulfield Cup
prospect. He lost form quickly,
and was given a short spell.
His win last Saturday ip open
company has again started
speculation as to just how good
he is. Owner J. C. Hanson
is inclined to put him away
again until the spring racing
comes around. It might pay to
wait until Chief Wongo meets
a good-class field before label-
ling him a Cup horse.
There is not much wrong
with Melbourne racing, judged
on the annual report of the
Moonee Valley R.C. presented
by chairman Sir Samuel
Burston last week. The report
disclosed that attendances at
the club’s fixtures had shown
a 10 p.c. increase on the pre-
vious year. From 13 meetings
the club showed a profit of
£15,599, the second-best result
in its history. During the year
stakemoney totalling £111,095
was distributed.
* * *
Trotting
In the final two-year-old race
of the Harold Park trotting
season promising colt Big Time
defeated 10-to-9 favorite Eden
Monaro by half-a-length with
Our Cygnet a length away
third. Eden Monaro, winner of
the H.P. Sapling Stakes on
March 29, started from the
12yds. mark. He was forced to
run four wide in the final half-
lap.
Big Time, usually unreliable
at the barrier, got away smartly
and settled down in third posi-
tion for two laps. Racing to the
lead entering the straight, be
went on to win comfortably.
In the run home the first four
horses (Craig Hanover was a
close fourth) had the race to
themselves. Craig Hanover


ENTERTAIN IN STYLE
AT THE HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY
6 Magnificent Banquet
Rooms
0 Superb Service
• Excellent Catering
The friendly helpful advice of The
Hotel Mettopole's experienced staif
will make your party planning a
distinct pleasure. You'll find just
the atmo.phere you want in one of
The Hotel Metropoie’s 6 superb
banquet rooms including... .The
Elizabeth R00m.... Princess....
Philip... .Windsor and York. All
have been newly decorated in strik-
ing modern colours and tastefully
furnished! Yes, the Hotel
Metropole is fast becoming the
smartest and most fashionable
Hotel in Sydney! Cocktail party,
coming-of-age party, wedding recep-
tion or business function —the
comfortable, relaxed atmosphere, the
superb catering and service and
magnificent setting make your party
an occasion to remember at the
Hotel Metropole.
*
THE HOTEL METROPOLE
Australia's Largest and
Most Friendly Hotel
B 0522. Box 1601, G.P.O.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
O’SULLIVAN
PTYLTD
j
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Wat Son Ferguson & Co.
Printers , Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STF.REOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
finished 10 lengths ahead of the
rest of the field.
• • • •
Consistent mare Highland
Jan led nearly all the way to
w in the Harold Park Handicap
(13| furlongs). She held off a
strong challenge from 10-to-9-
on favorite Determined Boy,
with the evergreen Victory
Dale (16-to-l) again in thirds
place. Determined Boy drew
almost level with Highland Jan
approaching the home-turn,
and, although driven hard under
the whip by P. J. Hall, failed
by half-a-length to catch the
Phillis-driven mare.
* +
Sundry Sports
Major upset in the seventh
round of the V.F.L. was Gee-
long’s 9.16-6.8 defeat of St.
Kilda. Since Melbourne's 17.8-
6.6 thrashing in the second
round at Kardinia Park, Gee-
long has improved and has
been a tougher nut to suc-
ceeding visitors; and it beat
Footscray at ’Scray the pre-
vious week. A strong last-
quarter burst won the game
for the Cats. All home teams
won on Saturday. Fitzroy,
with a change in its team for
the first time this year, defeated-
a plucky Hawthorn 12.15-8.15.
Melbourne had no particular
trouble beating Footscray,
which tried hard, 11.19-9-8.
North, though kept pointless
in the last quarter, held off
Collingwood 9.8-7.17"; it was
a shock win for North. Essen-
!on, which has an outside
tiance of staying in the fight
)r the finals, had 14 points to
pare over Richmond, 11.16-
.14; and South, with a third -
uarter burst, beat unhappy
'arlton, now on the bottom
f the ladder, 10.19-7.15. *
“Vic.”: Three unrelated
layers of the same name are
n the lists of V.F.L. clubs this
ear. They are Neville Crowe
Richmond), Bob Crowe
Carlton) and Bernie Crowe
Geelong).
* * *
In a scrappy, scrambling
;ame of Rugby League, N. S.
Vales beat Queensland 25-14 at
he S.C.G. on Saturday, after
eading 13-4 at half-time. There
vas far too much loose and
mscientific play ; Queensland,
hrough sheer carelessness,
;everal times lost possession
vh e n looking dangerous
Through injuries N.S.W. was
lot at full strength ; but the
Northerners, with skipper
Davies setting a fine example,
played better football than they
often do. Certainly they all
seemed to be trying, and
there was no repetition of the
69-5 and 45-12 “massacres” in
Sydney bv N. S. Wales last year.
N. S. Wales seemed to be
playing within themselves.
Nineteen-year-old N. S. Wales,
winger Peter Dimond made a
good inter-State debut with
three fine tries, and crossed for
another, disallowed through a
forward pass. Over 28,0C0 saw
the game, which was capably
handled by Queensland ref.
Jack Casev. This Saturday at
the S.C.G. it’s Sydney v.
England.
* * *
After being defeated by
lowly Eastwood the previous
round, Randwick surprised last
Saturday by downing Sydney
Rugby Union premiers St.
George 17-15 in a fast, excit-
ing game. St. George, previ-
ously unbeaten, was without
matchwinning wingers Staple-
ton and Fox. In another sur-
prise East beat Gordon 28-9;
both teams, through injury and
State representation, were
below strength. East scored the
only tries of the game, while
forward Bruce Galea, one of
the best goalkickers around at
the moment, kicked two goals
and five penalties. Manly easily
defeated North 23-8 ; Univer-
sity, despite crossing for three
disallowed tries, had a com-
fortable win against Eastwood,
19-11; and, in the battle for
the spoon of wood, Parra-
matta, winning 16-11, left it in
Prpmmoyne’s not-so-chpable
hands.
* * - *
The Queensland Open golf-
title, played at the Indooroo-
pilly (Q.) course, was won by
Brisbane professional Jack
Brown, who finished with 285
for the 72 holes to defeat
N. S. Wales pros. Kel Nagle
and Jim Mclnnes by one
stroke. The winner bagged £149
prizemoney whilst Nagle and
Mclnnes each received £6O.
• • . - «*
This year, instead of the
usual Ampol golf tournament,
there’s to be a circuit of
country tournaments in N.S.W.,
Victoria and probably South
Aus. The date on which the
main, tournament was to have
been held in Melbourne,
November 22, clashed with the
Canada Cup tournament in
Mexico. ,
* * *
Mixed-grill:—:
Mervyn Rose won the Italian
singles tennis-title, defeating 1957
winner, Pietrangeli, in five sets
lasting hours; Australian lass
Lorraine Coghlan was beaten by
Maria Bueno, of Brazil, in the
women's singles.
At Sydney Stadium on May 12,
in a fast, gruelling fight, welter-
weight Darby Brown got the deci-
sion over Zulu Joe N’Gidi —Joe, it
must be said, seemed downright
unlucky not to have got at least a
draw out of it. In Sydney last
Friday N.S.W. bantamweight
champion Johnny Jarrett stopped
Australian flyjveight c h a m-
pion Warner Batchelor, also of
Queensland, in the third round.
In Melbourne the same night Italian
lightweight Franco Rosini beat
rising Victorian Alf O'Sullivan over
12 rounds. _
On May 19, at Sydney
Stadium, Italian featherweight
Letterio Petilli easily beat Frankie
Bennett on points, though at a
disadvantage in height and reach.
Since being in Australia the impres-
sive Petilli, besides defeating
former Olympian Bobby Bath, has
also defeated Australia’s top
“fedder,” Max Murphy, and only
just lost to lightweight Russell
Sands.
At West Melbourne on Friday
night Joe N'Gidi easily defeated
Australian light-heavyweight cham-
pion, Billy McDonnell, on points
over 12 rounds. At Leichhardt
(Sydney) the same night Queens-
land welterweight champ., Jack
Walsh, stopped Sydney boxer Max
Simpson in the eighth round.
On rain-soaked Adelaide Oval,
at Soccer, Blackpool defeated
Australia by a mere 1-0. In Mel-
bourne on Sunday, also on a rain-
sodden ground, Blackpool
defeated Victoria, 8-0. Star of both
games, Stanley Matthews, was —
well, Stanley Matthews.
N.S.W. defeated Queensland in
the two RUgby Union games played
in Brisbane. Under floodlights last
Wednesday night it was 21-11, with
N.S.W.’s forwards the dominating
factor. On Saturday N.S.W. out-
classed Queensland back and for-
ward in an even easier win, 31-11.
N-S.w. scored seven tries to three,
fullback Curley getting two of
them, five-eighth Harvey converting
five.
In the third game of their tour,
last Saturday, the English Rugby
League team defeated Newcastle
35-16. Newcastle has beaten Eng-
land in four of their last five
meetings; on Saturday it led 3-0
after 20min., but after that never
looked like “giantkilling” the
present tourists.
In Sydney Rugby League’s round,
played on Sunday, St. George beat
Newtown 15-13, West was too good
for Balmain, 20-7, East surprised
Manly 26-7, North outscored
Canterbury 28-22, and South found
Parramatta tougher than it thought,
19-15.
The City (Sydney) Masters Bowls
Tournament was won by an
“unknown,” Ted Smith (of Terri-
gal and Merrylands), from another
unseeded player. Fred Lewis, of
Austinmer. Smith had only entered
to ' “gain experience” against top
bowlers.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
WORLD COMMUNISM IN FIGURES
Yl7riting in “The World *To-
day” [London] on world
Communism, “1.A.” has com-
piled, from information made
available at the celebration of
the 40th anniversary of the
October Revolution, and from
party newspapers and official
publications, a survey of the
world-wide membership of the
Communist party, which gives
an indication of the status
which the various national
parties enjoy in Moscow.
“There are today,” he notes,
“as in 1935, 76 Communist
parties in existence. Sixty-four
of these signed the ‘peace
manifesto’ of ‘Communist and
Workers’ Parties’ last Novem-
ber in Moscow. Excluding the
parties in the Communist
States, there were 18 from the
Americas, 17 frojn Western
Europe, 11 from Asia, three
from Africa (Algeria, Morocco,
and Tunisia), and two from
Australasia.
“The signatories included,
inter alia, Marshal Tito’s Com-
munist League of Yugoslavia,
the Communist Party of San
Marino, and the People's
Party of Painama. On the other
hand, several sections of the
former Comintern, or parties
formed since its dissolution in
1943, were conspicuous by their
absence. This may be attributed
to the Soviet desire to placate
Governmental circles and
public opinion in countries like
Burma and Egypt.
“In some cases, however, the
inability of certain Com-
munist parties to preserve their
organisation in the face of
repression (e.g. Iran, the
Philippines, and the Union of
South Africa), or through lack
of even minimum support
(e.g., Ireland), may be respon-
sible for their absence from
the largest and most representa-
tive gathering of Communist
leaders since Stalin’s death.”
“LA.” goes bn to show that,
of the various Communist
parties, 15 are in power, and
their control embraces 26 per
cent, of the land-surface and
nearly 35 per cent, of the
population of the world, >vith
about one-third of the world’s
industrial output.
The remaining. 63 Com-
munist parties, writes “1.A.,”
may be divided injto two
roughly equal groups—legal or
illegal. Police-repression and
lack of contact with the
“masses” usually account for
the low membership and lack
of influence of most illegal
Communist parties, and “1.A.”
quotes past and present
strengths of Communist parties
which have “since been able
to breate mass movements and
thereby win the praise of the
Soviet press”:
Indonesia: 3000 (1945),
1,600.000 (1956); India : 16,000
(1943), 125,000 (1957): Italy:
5000(1943), 1,713,000 (1957).
Post-war elections in France,
Italy, India and Java, writes
“LA.,” “only confirmed the
Communist hold over a size-'
able section of the population
as -well as the Communists’
ability to exploit discontent and
profit from the prestige which
the U.S.S.R. and China enjoy
in the world today. He quotes
the example of the Communist
Party of Japan as an instance
of increased membership and
influence on its emergence
from illegality as a result of
Allied victory in World War 11.
It rose from 1000 members in
December, 1945, to more than
200,000 members by mid- 1949
(though subsequently its
membership declined).
Meanwhile, the world-wide
membership of the Communist
party rose from 1,676,000 in
1928 to “in the vicinity of
32,000,000” in November, 1956.
“Of the 32-million Com-
munists in November 1956,
‘about 17-million’ (including
the Communist Party of the
Soviet Union) were in Europe,
‘more than 14-million’ (includ-
ing the Communist Party of
China) in Asia, while ‘over a
million’ were in Africa,
America, and Australia. In the
second half of 1957, 28-million
Communists, or 84 per cent-,
of the total, belonged to Com-
munist parties which are in
power. Soviet publications
include the Communist League
of Yugoslavia among them. The
Communist Party of China has
the highest membership in this
group, followed by that of the
Soviet Uniop.”
Communist-party member-
ship in the free says
“1.A.,” is largely concentrated
in Italy, Indonesia, France and
India, which together provide
four-fifths of the Communists
outside the Soviet bloc. “The
successes of these parties and
their potential role in the
future no doubt account for
their high standing in the
Communist hierarchy,” as
shown in outline at the anni-
versary celebrations:
“In welcoming the foreign
Communist delegations at the
jubilee session of the Supreme
Soviet of the U.S.S.R. Khrush-
chev began by referring to the
Communist parties which are in
power today. His first greetings
were extended to the Com-
munist Party of China and to
its leader, whom the audience
greeted with ‘loud and pro-
longed applause. All rise.’
Khrushchev then cited the
remaining Communist delega-
tions in Russian alphabetical
order, thus placing Albania just
after China, and Yugoslavia at
the end of the list. The mention
of these Communist delega-
tions brought forth ‘loud
applause.’ ”
Next, says “1.A.,” came the
Communist parties of the free
world in four groups. First,
French and Italian Com-
munists, then those of
Austria, Britain, Germany,
Spain, India, Indonesia and
Japan—in Russian alphabetical
order, except for Spain. The
third group consisted of a
number of countries in no
special order, headed by Syria-
Lebanon and including, among
others, Australia. Lastly came
a group to which Khrushchev
“did not bother to extend an
individual welcome.”
In the speech-making, too,
“lA.” remarks, there was “a
definite hierachy.” Mao Tse-
tung followed Khrushchev on
to the rostrum and preceded
Gomulka, while Thorez and
Togliatti spoke before Pollitt,
Reimann and Ibarruri-Passio-
nara.”
Arctic Inspection
Zone
Commenting on the U.S.
proposal (put to U.N. Security
Council) for an Arctic aerial-
inspection zone to satisfy the
security of both America and
the Soviet, Edinburgh “Scots-
man” notes that “aerial inspec-
tion is not, strictly speaking,
disarmament, but it is tied-up
with it”:
, “The most promising
approach to disarmament is
the piecemeal one which
requires only that neither side
should find itself at a signi-
ficant disadvantage at any
—N.Y. “Herald Tribune”
ALWAYS A WAY OUT
stage. Each particular step,
however isolated and limited,
points the way to a further
one. This fact is one reason
why it is not necessary to insist
on a package agreement.
“If aerial inspection were
instituted in the Arctic, for
example, there would be no


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box £521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—!
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire; £2 13s. 6d. Foreign; £3 6s.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.);
A/asia: 1 year —£l 18s. 6d.; £ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to "The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
very good reason for refusing
it elsewhere, though the Rus-
sians would still be able to use
their old argument that the
West just wanted to spy on
them.
“At one point during the
last disarmament - conference
they seemed prepared to con-
sider aerial inspection along
with other proposals. To get
them to agree to it, it may
be necessary to accept some
proposal of theirs. The sus-
pension of nuclear tests would
be a suitable one. Mr.
Khrushchev has mentioned
control, which in this case
would be a simple matter.
Why not press him about
that?”
* * *
Other editoral comment:
“ Manchester Guardian ” :
“Would the American proposal
mean that each could estab-
lish a radar-chain on the far
side of the Arctic? That has
not been stated specifically, but
it would be consistent with the
American plan. It would mean
for each a longer period of
warning against possible attack,
and it would give each more
reliable knowledge of the fir-
ing of high-altitude missiles
than is practicable at present.
“So far so good; but there
are snags. First, to build these
chains would cost a fortune.
The ‘Dewline’ [the radar warn-
ing line across North America]
has cost many millions by
■ N itself, and a new system must
scan a still wider front and
provide trans-Arctic transmis-
sion of its information.
“Secondly, it would need
years to build, and by the time
it was built it might be
obsolete. By then the main
fear is more likely to be from
missile-carrying submarines,
dispersed in the Atlantic and
Pacific. Each side admits that
it is building them, and when
they are ready the Arctic
inspection - system will be
out of' date.
“Finally, there is the fact
that even with such inspection
both sides will remain poised
ready for instant counter-
attack. The fear that one or
other may fire its terrible
weapons without cause will
remain. The same men will
be waiting, to take the same
suicidal decisions in Omaha
and Chelyabinsk as at present.
Shall we, in short, have any
more reason to sleep quietly at
night?”
* * *
“New York TimeY’: “Cer-
tainly the United States, hav-
ing no aggressive intent what-
ever, would welcome a system
of Arctic inspection with relief.
Beyond that, in the words of
President Eisenhower to Mr.
Khrushchev, such inspection
would provide a ‘significant
first step’ towards a broader
application of inspection-
systems to prevent the possi-
bility of surprise attacks over
other regions besides the
—London “Daily Mail”
OUT OF ORBIT
Arctic. It is with this thought
in mind that the President
reiterates his earlier proposal
for setting the experts to work
on the technical problems of
armament - inspection and
-control, as requested by the
United Nations General
Assembly, in order tq facili-
tate broader agreements. But
the Soviets have continued to
insist on paper agreements first,
and consideration of controls
after that, when they can reap
the fruits of agreement while
evading controls.”
* * *
Oslo “Morgenbladet”: “One
would think that the Soviet
Government now would agree
to the idea of an aerial
inspection, as it clearly must
be in the interest of Russian
security to establish a mutual
inspection in this vast area.”
* * *
Russia’s summary rejection
of the U.S. proposal evoked a
further spate of press-comment.
A typical sampling:
Edinburgh “ Scotsman ”:
“Mr. Sobolev, in the Security
Council, has been reduced to
calling the proposal for inspec-
tion to prevent surprise attack
across the Arctic region a‘diver-
sionary manoeuvre,’ while in
Moscow Mr. Gromyko has
had to fall back on the crudest
of allegations.
“It is a pity that this has
been the Soviet reaction, but it
is most heartening fhat the
United States has shown itself
once more capable of the kind
of move that had almost
become the monopoly of the
the other side.
“It is easy enough to see
why the Russians do not want
to accept the proposal. Inspec-
tion in the Arctic would lead
to inspection elsewhere, .and
the Russians do not want to
be under inspection. Their
insistence that only the stop-
ping of U.S. flights in the
direction of their territory will
remove the danger is hollow.
If inspection were instituted in
the air and on the ground the
U.S. flights would no longer
be necessary, for the inspection
would perform their main
function.”
* * *
London “News-Chronicle ":
“Whatever the Russian motive
for opposing the American
initiative, it gives a very dif-
ferent appearance to the pro-
posal to suspend nuclear tests
made by Mr. Khrushchev last
month. The acid-test of any
and all disarmament measures
is inspection and control. By
that standard the Russians are
failing.”
* * *
London “ Economist “ln
the [Security Council] debate
the representatives of Japan
and Sweden supported the
Arctic proposal, and the Secre-
tary-General himself, in one
of his rare interventions, wel-
cqmed it asi something that
might lead to a ‘major break-
through’ in the disarmament
deadlock. It is, of course, a
chip off the old block of the
Western Powers’ disarmament
programme presented last
summer, which was turned-
down very firmly by a Russia
convinced that its development
of inter-continental missiles
would enable it to bargain
‘from strength’ for better
terms.” _____
Secretary of State, John
Foster Dulles: “We have to be
a bit careful in the use of the
word ‘peace.’ If you only talk
peace and if peace is your only
goal, you can always get peace
by surrendering.”


ROYAL JELLY .
Direct from the bees. Fabulously
rich vitalising dietary supplement.
One month’s supply., in capsules,
£5/5/-, or mixed in 6 ounces oi
honey, £5. Technical data 2/o-
Free Leaflet.
R. A. PEACOCK,
Apiarist, 21 Carbine Street,
KEEANG, VICTORIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Infertility
“Agricola”: Infertility is
costing dairyfarmers thousands
of pounds every year. Most
of the loss passes unnoticed
because there is nothing spec-
tacular about it—just a quiet
whittling-away of cows and
income and a reduced annual
crop of calves.
The three main causes of
infertility are brucellosis,
vibriosis and trichomoniasis.
Starvation, or want of certain
minerals, such as phosphorus,
can cause temporary sterility,
but that is nothing compared
to the headaches that the three
diseases can cause. When a
farmer gets one or more of
them in the herd he has trouble
on his hands in a big way.
Brucellosis, or contagious
abortion, has been causing
trouble for years. There is
no effective cure for it and most
of the quack-remedies that
enjoyed passing popularity have
gone to the wall.
Strain-19 vaccine has gone a
long way toward controlling
brucellosis. At first only calves
between four and eight months
were inoculated, but now it has
Early weaning of
lambs is good
economic practice.
Experience has shown
that lambs weaned as
early as six weeks of
age compare favor-
ably in growth with
others mother-fed
even up to three and
four months old.
Pasture hay should
be put out to the
ewes and lambs just
prior to weaning to
enable the ewes to
train the lambs to
eat it. Another good
economic practice is
to use Elastrator
Rubber Rings when
marking and tailing
the lambs. This will
reduce losses and
limit fly strike and
disease.
been found that certain adult
cows can be given a shot. While
the vaccine does not cure the
disease, it gives healthy cows
and heifers a chance to build-up
a resistance to an acute attack.
It is important that a qualified
man handles the vaccine, as it
is a live culture.
Before the use of the vaccine
the only way out was with the
“test-and-slaughter” method.
It was costly and unreliable, as
it was almost impossible to
stop the disease at the fence,
and very few would have the
scheme on.
Treatment of vibriosis has
been fairly successful in cows
but not so good in bulls. The
disease is nearly always spread
from cow to cow by the bull
at service. The trouble is not
so much a series of abortions
but long periods of sterility,
and sometimes cows fail to
come on heat for months at
a time.
Cows can be treated by using
sulphadimidine or the anti-
biotics, especially penicillin and
streptomycin mixed. The bull
is the problem successful
treatment demands that he be
put out of action for at least
three months. That sounds
easy in theory, but it is not so
simple in practice. It means
that several bulls must be on
hand and the affected ones
locked-iip away from all stock.
And, although the antibiotics
are easy to use on cows, the
bull is a tougher proposition.
Fortunately, trichomoniasis
is not widespread and can be
controlled if tackled as soon
as it is found in the herd —
it will prove an outsize head-
ache if it spreads.
The popularity of herd-
testing for butter-fat and the
keeping of more accurate cow-
records are spotlighting the
losses caused by infertility. In
some cases cows have been
dry for as long as seven months.
Others have been milking for
six months before they con-
ceived. The loss in the annual
crop of calves has also caused
concern because there are
fewer youngsters available to
replace old or culled cows in
the herd.
Losses can be cut if assistance
is sought as soon as anything
wrong is noticed. But it’s no
good waiting for something to
turn-up. Infertility won’t cure
itself and if the trouble is not
tackled as soon as it appears
in the herd it may cost a small
fortune to control it later on.
Landrace Pigs
“G.F.M.”: The first Land-
race pigs to reach N. S. Wales
have been landed by J. N.
Bridgland, who combines com-
mercial pig-breeding with his
be 11 e r-known woolclassing
interests.
The Landrace is considered
the perfect bacon-pig. Looking
down on their backs, they
appear wedge-shaped, with fine
shoulders. From the back they
are very square, like a well-bred
Hereford, with beautiful hams.
They are a steely white, and
have large ears, held high and
wider than the ear of a Wessex
Saddleback.
Bridgland’s consignment, a
boar and two gilts, cost £lOOO
to land from Northern Ireland.
The boar came from Mr.
Ervine, well-known breeder in
Northern Ireland, and the two
gilts from Mr. Gray’s Moy.
gannon herd, one of the best-
known Landrace herds in
Northern Ireland. Both gilts
were served at Moygannon, but
by different boars. One was
very forward during the latter
part of the trip and was taken
off ship at Melbourne to far-
row. The other farrowed three
weeks after reaching Sydney.
The consignment will form
the nucleus of a Landrace stud
near Sydney.
Tallarook
“Corrie”: One of the most
significant discoveries in the
sub.-clover world since Amos
William Howard found the
plant near Mt. Barker (S.A.) in
the 1880’s was the appearance
of an excellent later-maturing
strain at Tallarook, about 55
miles up the Sydney road from
Melbourne.
Scientists are very interested
in the fact that Tallarook is
the one strain of sub.-clover
showing much resistance to the
virus which causes stunting and
consequent loss of production
in other strains.
Having this resistance, Talla-
rook not only grows normally
in country which suits it, but
could also be a valuable parent
in putting resistance into strains
which need it.
Jerusalem Artichokes
“Myall”: Jerusalem arti-
chokes are a valuable crop for
pig-raisers. The edible tubers
are excellent food and, being
rich in sugar and gum, are
fattening and increase the milk-
flow in farrowing sows. They
are also excellent food for
sheep.
The plant is really a tuberous-
rooted sunflower, and the tops
make good silage. It is a heavy
cropper, and yields of up to 9
tons per acre have been
obtained.
The soil for artichokes should
not be rich, as this encourages
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
C15/5/'58)
June rain should be general over the whole of Queens-
land, bringing temporary relief to the dry areas of the
State. Light to moderate and patchy rains are indicated
during spring.
N.S.W. should receive general rains in June, with the
heaviest falls in the southern divisions. Gales are likely in
inland areas, with cyclonic activity on the coast. Rainfall
should vary from moderate to reasonably good during July.
General rains in Victoria in June may cause flooding in
the northern division and South Gippsland. Similar rains are
likely in July, with the prospect *of serious flooding in the
Wknmera and northern division.
South Australia should receive good general rains in
June and good follow-on rains in the agricultural areas
until October. Rainfall should be poor in the interior until
December.
Good general rains are expected for Western Australia
during June, with heavy falls on the coast from Geraldton
southwards.
LENNOX WALKER.


A-
A\i>!
m
11
§0
fej
\
S 3
IWO E/VG/A/ES w tf/v£-
that's just about what Nuffield
Independent Power Take-Off*
adds up to!
(P.T.O. and hydraulics
can now be disengaged
before or after tractor
transmission)
Now you can start the Nuffield Universal tractor, stop it, engage any gear without inter-
ruption to the independent P.T.O. or hydraulics operation. And by the same token, you
can stop and start the P.T.O. or hydraulics without interfering with the tractor movement
in any way! Everything is completely independent—it’s almost engines in one!
Two separately controlled clutches are the secret—one engaging the independent P.T.O.
drive and the other the tractor drive. This two-in-one power means you can operate
balers, combine harvesters, orchard sprayers, mowers, forage harvesters, rotovators and
others with new profit-making ease and efficiency! 1.P.T.0. eliminates the need for separate
power units on most driven implements. Find out the full story on this and all the other
great Nuffield Universal features from your Nuffield Distributor or Dealer to-day—it can
help you tremendously!
Models from £1,326/5/-. f.o.r. all capital citi«
NUFFIELD
UNIVERSAL TRACTOR
NT.SS.3t
{i»*cs
lillllMUg
BIUMIO
Sold and Serviced by Authorised Nuffield
Distributors and Dealers Everywhere
Nuffield (Australia! Pty. Ltd.. Tractor
Division, Box 73, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me literature on the Nuffield
Tractor Range and Independent Power Take-off.
NAME -
ADDRESS
□ Placa X In tquart If ter ic/ioo/ projtci
greater development of stems
and leaves than tubers. Plant
the tubers in rows 2ft. apart,
and lOin. apart in the rows
during June, July or early
August. The crop will be
ready for use in the late
summer when the plants
commence to die down.
It is a good plan to set aside
a small area for their cultiva-
tion and fence it, so that the
pigs can be turned in to clean-
up the tubers when ready. This
saves time and trouble in
digging them, and the animals
will always leave enough in
the ground to produce the
following year’s crop.
The tubers are considered a
delicacy by some people, and
they may be boiled, baked or
roasted. When preparing them
for the table, peel or scrape
them under water to prevent
discoloration.
Meat for U.S.A.
“Ox”: Since Australia’s
earlier attempts to export good-
quality meat to U.S.A. ended
in failure it is all the more
amazing that we have cracked
the Mighty Dollar with bone-
less beef and low-grade mutton
urmg the last 12 months.
The request for boneless beef
could be due to the run of poor
seasons in Americas beef-
raising areas, but the poor-
quality mutton appears to be
destined to keep up the supply
of hamburger steak” for U.S.
housewives.
Although the U.S.A. pro-
duces some of the best beef in
the world, a 21s. steak is too
much for the average family
very often. The result is a
heavy demand for hamburger
mince, and the una shamed
appearance of neatly packaged
horsemeat in many super-
markets,
Australian wholesalers and
retailers could take the warning
that good meat could easily
jce itself out o£ the e
of many Unlike the
U.S.A., we have not a big
population to take up the slack
when the average person cannot
afford so much food.


means as concentrate-feeding
and the growing of fodder-
crops, the sowing of improved
pastures was tried, with striking
results.
At Shannon Vale attention
has been given to using winter-
and spring-growing sown-pas-
tures to' complem ent the natural
summer-growing pastures. A
workable stocking - procedure
has been determined and a
satisfactory estimate of the
sown-pasture requirements of
a flock arrived at.
On the basis of one acre of
sown pasture for four breed-
ing-ewes plus one acre for each
five weaners to be carried, and
two acres of native pasture to
each acre of sown pasture, the
stock being grazed in two
groups, each group spending
days on natural pasture
during the winter and spring
and on natural pasture during
the summer, a considerable
wolume of data has been
obtained. It shows that this
proportion of sown pastures
at the stocking-rate indicated
results in:
The elimination of winter mor-
talities and loss in body-weight due
to malnutrition./
A threefold increase in wool-
production, weanelrs cutting 20-241 b.
per acre.
A threefold increase in net
returns per acre.
Successful breeding (a flock
commencing at 120 ewes increased
to a total of 571 in five years),
and production of fat lambs.
It should be possible for
farmers on most of the eastern-
fall country of the New Eng-
land Tableland to duplicate
these results, which were
obtained from a system of
management designed to
achieve maximum use of the
grazing obtainable from the
sown pastures.
Fanning Figures
Farmers and graziers fre-
quently view departmental
results with some suspicion. It
may therefore be of interest to
quote one or two instances, out
of the large number of records
available, of results obtained
by private individuals.
On a large property on
the Southern Tablelands which
carried initially some 11,400
sheep and 300 cattle the’estab-
lishment of 8000 acres of
improved pasture resulted in
stock being increased to somfe
18,000 sheep and 600 cattle—
equivalent 'to approximately
21,500 sheep—so that approxi-
mately two acres of improved
pasture were available for each
five sheep equivalent. As
indicated, sheep-numbers in-
creased about 82 per cent.,
but in the same period
the wool - clip went from
240 bales to 680 bales —an
increase of 180 per cent. With-
out improved pasture 50 sheep
were required to produce a.
bale of wool; with improved
pasture 27 sheep produced a
bale. And these results were
obtained prior to the introduc-
tion of myxomatosis and prior
to the recent run of good
seasons.
Similar examples can be
quoted from other districts. On
a Central Tablelands property
Which produced about s|lb.
wool per acre, and on which
the nutritional level was so low
that breeding only maintained
the flock-numbers, pasture-im-
provement has increased wool-
yield to 221 b. per acre and
750 sheep per 1000 acres are
available for sale annually. In
addition, beef-cattle production
has been added "to the farm
activities.
On an Inverell property of
2500. acres pasture-improve-
ment began in 1955 with the
sowing of 76 acres of pasture.
This has been increased each
year until at the present time
almost 80 per cent, of the farm
is sown. TTie progressive wool-
yields—l9s2, 65 bales; 1953,
80 bales; 1954, 89 bales; 1955,
93 bales; 1956, 110 bales; 1957,
150 bales —are Very significant.
Better Management
Only pastures which are pro-
perly maintained both in terms
of supplying the necessary fer-
tiliser materials and in terms
of satisfactory grazing-manage-
ment can be expected to con-
tinue production at the levels
instanced. However, it must
also be remembered that the
high stock-numbers carried on
improved properties make
them particularly vulnerable to
dry spells. Even in countries
such as New Zealand, where
pasture-improvement is at a
very high level and which
enjoys the best grass-growing
climate in the world, it is neces-
sary to make provision for
seasonal shortages by some
means of fodder-conservation.
Fodder - conservation is an
essential complement to pas-
ture-improvement.
Before sown pastures are
established on a property,
fodder - conservation usually
requires the sowing of special
crops. However, sown pastures
both produce or increase the
need for fodder-conservation
and also provide the material.
The high yield of pasture-hay
following heavy stock-carry mg
m j. Trangre experiment
quoted indicates this, and it is
of considerable interest that
farmers are beginning to rea-
hse the possibilities of pasture-
conservation.
The trend is at present most
evident on the South-western
Slopes and Eastern Riverina,
where pasture-hay production
increased from 13,000 tons
to 198,000 tons in the five
years ending 1955-56.
In this area pasture-improve-
ment is at present based almost
wholly on subterranean clover,
and a high spring-fodder peak
results. This is difficult to uti-
lise fully as grazing, particu-
larly as it is developed usually
after the maximum feed-
demand, and almost unlimited
scope for fodder-conservation
is offered.
A Great Future
Although many problems
remain to be elucidated and
man y refinements are possible,
f bere j s little doubt that large
tracts of country at present
carrying less than one sheep
per acre can be brought to £
relatively high level of produc-
tion on existing knowledge,
One competent authority has
estimated that there are 76-
million acres of land in N.S.W.
capable of carrying improved
pasture. The instances quoted
above suggest that much, if not
all, of this could carry two or
more sheep per acre. When the
possibilities •of more adequate
pasture-management and more
complete utilisation are con-
sidered, a threefold increase in
wool-production for this area
can be regarded as an attain-
able goal. The effect of this
on the State’s economy may be
left to the imagination.
but it is when prices
are high that it is most favor-
able for him to hedge. It has
been my experience in the
market that when conditions
are good and prospects appeal
sound for some time to come,
that is the best time in which
to take-out insurance. The
brokerage cost of futures
insurance today is approxi-
mately one per cent.
One of the most important
aspects of futures operations
with regard to a grower is that
once he has hedged his clip by
selling futures, he ) knows
within two or three per cent,
what his gross income will be
and he can then budget with
security for the running of his
property.
Similarly, futures are also
of considerable advantage to
the grower who sells late in the
season, say March'br May, and
who then has but a short time
before the end of the financial
year in which to utilise his
income. By kriowing what his
income will be some months
before the date of sale he, can
carry-out improvements to his
property, etc., well in advance
of the end of the financial year.
It is possible to estimate the
value of a grower’s clip on
the futures market at any time
to within two or three per cent,
of its gross value (assuming the
wool is much the same from
season to season) given the
following information:
Date of last sale.
Total greasy weight.
Average greasy price per lb.
Based on fact, here is an
example of the recent use of
futures by a woolgrower with
an average 64’s clip. This
grower, who normally sells in
December, decided last July
that the price of futures for
January, 1958, represented a
satisfactory return to him for
his clip, and decided to hedge.
The results are set out below:
On July 6, January futures
quoted at 132 d., (wool-tops)
which represents 90d. lb. for
64’s average (greasy).
The estimated greasy weight of
his clip was 18,5001 b. 18,5001 b.
greasy at 90d. lb. = £6937 10s. He
decided to sell two January con-
tracts. Two contracts at 133 d. lb.
stg. = £Aust.6B7o. (Now, whether
the rnark,et rises or falls, he will
receive approximately £6BOO gross
income.)
The wool was sold on
December 11, 1957. That week
the A.W.B. figure for 64’s av.
was 114 d. clean, and our
grower received at the auction
an average greasy price of 69d.,
giving him a return for his clip
of £5319.
That same day his futures
broker cabled London and
bought back his two January
futures contracts at 105 d. stg.
lb.
Two contracts at 105 d. lb.
stg. =' £Aust.s469.
Now to his wool-clip cheque
of £5319 is added his profit
from futures of the difference
between the value of his sold
futures contracts of £6875 and
the value at which he bought
them back of £5469, i.e., £1406,
giving him a total return for
wool and futures of £6725.
This operation on the futures
market saved the grower 18{d.
lb. greasy.


the I-BXXX death
• i-oin ■ - sh»p oio
LICE &
FOR
KED
/» SHHPI
m j
: ,/
m
iCI
All PURPOSE
DIEiDHM
SHEEP DIP
(‘I-DIEL’ can be mixed with lime sulphur for itch mite control)
Keeps STRIPPING to a MINIMUM!
★ Easy to maintain dip concentration at an efficient level.
★ Topping up rates have been accurately calculated to
maintain strength.
★ Easily mixed fine suspension.
★ Excellent wetting ensures thorough saturation.
★ Economical and highly effective.
AVAILABLE FROM YOUR USUAL SUPPLIER
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
mx
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
40.IDL.4X.1SSS
But the buyer takes the risk,
and the seller buys a new
limousine.
A resume of the Corriedale-
Polwarth joining-trend (now
also being adopted by some
Gundagai, south-west slopes
and Murrumbidgee River
graziers for the first time) puts
the Polwarth in a very favorable
light regarding resultant pro-
geny. The Polwarth introduc-
tion results in something
resembling ‘ a plain-bodied,
extra - long - stapled Merino.
This breed is well covered,
though free of wool about
the eyes, making wigging
unnecessary.
Covering is reasonably dense,
and quality best held at 58’s,
though this quality can be as
high as 70’s. Weight of fleece
compares favorably with good
Merino flock-sheep. The fleece
is even in quality, with staple
approximately sin. long. The
wool in general shows very
strong Merino characteristics ;
it has ‘“character,” soft texture
and brightness,
The lighter type of country
such as the hill-country of
Tumblong is also very suitable
for the Polwarth.
materials. These tests led to
the development of the
method now being applied
commercially. When a crease
is to be set in- a trouser-leg
the cloth is sprayed with the
thioglycollate solution and
then pressed and steamed
simultaneously. The chemical
treatment combined with
steaming allows internal
rearrangement of the wool-
fibres, so that they tend not
to spring back to the original
uncreased shape. The fibres
are stabilised in their new
positions so as to hold the
shape of the crease.
As the process seemed likely
to be suitable for large-scale
use extensive tests on treated
cloth and garments were made.
Members of the staff of the
laboratory wore trousers with
one treated and one untreated
leg. Treated garments were
immersed in water and were
even washed in hot soap-solu-
tions. The superior durability
of the creases resulting from
the treatment was clearly
established. Laboratory tests
on fibre-strength and on resist-
ance to abrasion also gave very
satisfactory results.
The success of these tests has
led to the adoption of the pro-
cess by some of the largest
manufacturer? of trousers and
skirts. As the quantity of
ammonium-thioglycollate used
is very small, and the steaming-
time is short, the cost of apply-
ing the treatment is low. It
xan also be applied when gar-
ments are being pressed after
dry-cleaning. Applications for
patent have been, made in Aus-
tralia and Great Britain,, and
approved Australian firms will
be allowed to use the process
at a nominal royalty. Thfese
firms will be permitted to use
the trade-name Si-ro-set.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Local Government
May an ex-town- and shire-
clerk express the opinion that
the Liberal-Country-party coali-
tion has a wonderful oppor-
tunity to show it is really in
earnest in the matter of putting
the “local” back into local-
government. All over N: S.
Wales shires and municipalities
have been forcibly amal-
gamated against the will of
their elected representatives
and the ratepayers themselves.
So far, all that Morton & Co.
have promised is that no future
amalgamations will take place
without the local people being
consulted, and that a “commis-
sion” (blessed word) will be set
up to examine the incidence of
those areas already forcibly
amalgamated. This is not nearly
enough. It might look all right
on paper, but the average rural
ratepayer has precious little
faith in any commission. What
he wants is a plain, unequivocal
statement that the ratepayers in
those areas (such as Shoal-
haven, Tweed, Upper Hunter,
Wollongong, Central Iliawarra,
etc.) which have been forcibly
linked-up with adjoining areas
will be given the right to hold
a poll as to whether the status
quo should be observed, or
whether a subdivision into
smaller and more workable
areas should be effected.
If certain portions of an area
want to be excluded and to form
a new local-government entity,
then there is room for a com-
mission to function, but this
should be completely free of
departmental influence, and
should comprise a member
nominated by the Local
Government or Shires Associa-
tion, one nominated by
the Association of Local
Government Clerks, with an
independent chairman, prefer-
ably a retired police-magistrate
or member of the Bar. Its sole
job should be to determine
equitable boundaries. Country
dwellers (whether urban ori
rural) usually know pretty well
what they want, and how their
best interests will be served.
And this undertaking should
have no strings attached to it,
nor should it be dependent in
any way on the whim of the
Minister.— Douglas Tilghman
(N.S.W.).
Victoria and No Better
Bread
“Shepherd’s Pie” (B.
14/5/’5B) was on the ball
except in its reference to
“Labor chicanery in linking
with the Country party to
defeat Bolte’s genuine Bread
Bill.” No party can really
escape blame for Victoria’s
bread shemozzle. In fact, the
election campaign, though
deadly quiet anyway, is at least
notable for the fact that all
parties are wary of the bread
issue.
Recent history reveals that
Bread Reform was massacred
in the Legislative Council by
the pressure-groups. In the
Assembly the Minister (George
Reid, M.L.A.) told members,
“Public criticism on the bread
industry in recent years has
been directly along three lines”:
firstly, “a criticism of the poor
quality of bread,” then “a lack
of service to the public by
suppliers”—and “monopolistic
“Just look at that girl in jeans!"
practices.” The Minister’s
second-reading speech con-
cluded with, “The object of
this bill is to redress the balance
in favor of the consumer.”
Mr. Bolte’s Government
received a set-back in the
Legislative Council when
the L.-C.P. baker, member for
Mon ash (Chas. Gawith,
M.L.C.) told the President (Sir
Clifden Eager) that, “having a
pecuniary interest,” he could
neither take part in the debate
nor . vote in divisions. In a
House where every vote was
vital, this stand by the “Baker
from Monash” a Bolte
“supporter” contributed to
the defeat of two important
clauses by one vote.
The two clauses were “con-
sumer-control” and “a better
loaf.” Juxtaposition of the
four parties in. that august
Chamber was so inconsistent
in the divisions as to defy logic,
but the net result was the
death-rattles. Certain it is that
no party emerged with credit.
-—X R. Power (Vic.).
King O’Malley and the
“Trans.” Railway
Some of the claims made
about O’Malley’s part in
initiating the “Trans.” railway
are, as “Phil Anthus” says (B.
7/5/ ’5B), open to debate.
Big John Forrest was, of
course, the man who got the
first section of the East-West
Railway laid from Northam
to Kalgoorlie in 1896. He had
surveyed the Nullarbor Plain in
1870-74, before O’Malley
arrived from the U.S. On
Sept. 8, 1896, at the ceremonial
opening, Forrest said in his
historic speech that he had
brought the railway to Kal-
goorlie, and “he was not going
to stop there.”
During the Federation cam-
paign .Forrest practically
promised W.A. electors the
desired railway. After Federa-
tion, and during his tenure of
various portfolios in the
Federal Government, he
worked ceaselessly for a start
to be made on the line.
However, it was not until
1911, during Fisher’s second
term as P.M., that it fell to
O’Malley to pilot through the
Reps’, the bill authorising con-
struction of the railway from
Kalgoorlie to Port Augusta.
The story that the cost of
the “Trans.” was paid for by
the Commonwealth Bank under
some wonderful credit scheme
also does not stand examina-
tion. Sir Denison Miller did
advance some amount free of
interest; but not in perpetuity ;
and the advance was a loan,
not a gift. Total cost of the
Trans-Australian Railway is
listed today at £9,241,657,
Interest paid on the Common-
wealth Railways, 1955-56, was
£385,424 ; National Debt Sink-
ing Fund, £171,443.
So far as I know, not one
of our seven Governments has
a debt-free railway-system.
Lastly, the “Trans.” was not
the first Commonwealth rail-
way. The Palmerston-to-Pine
Creek and the Oodnadatta
railways were acquired in 1911
from South Australia; the
Canberra line was taken over
in 1914. The “Trans.,” opened
on Oct. 22, 1917, was actually
the fourth Commonwealth
r a i 1 w a y.— George Beesley
(N.S.W.). -
Banned Books
The list of banned books
recently released im-
mediately invites com-
parison with that given
in The Bulletin 12
years- ago.
If the list given then
was authentic, the
Literature Censorship
Board and the Depart-
ment of Customs have
rectified some notable
errors.
Aphrodite and La
Femme et le Pantin, by
Pierre Louys, a noted
French author of the
’nineties, are two good
examples. It is surpris-
ing that a third escaped
—a charming fantasy
entitled Les A venture f
du Roi Pausole. An-
other is Les Contes
of La Fontaine, whose
Fables will probably
always be compulsory
reading for students of
French.
The early list shows Monsieur
Nicolas, or the Human Heart
Unveiled, by a writer of the
revolutionary era, dubbed by
his contemporaries the “Rous-
seau of the gutter”—Restif de la
Bretonne. This work can be
compared in some respects with
the Memoirs of Casanova, but
shows a depth of feeling quite
lacking in Casanova’s casual
recitation of his conquests, and
also the influence of Emile and
Sturm und Drang, Monsieur
Nicole, as such, is no longer
banned, but in the present list


appears The Pleasures and
Follies of a Good-natured
Libertine, by Restit de la
Bretonne. This may be another
version, perhaps more crudely
translated for the delectation
of the 19th-century Englishman
of means.
There was a spate of frankly
pornographic books for this
market throughout that
century, and many earlier
works by Poggio, Crebillon the
son, Mirabeau, de Nerciat, de
M usset, Stendhal, and Beranger
—to name only a few—were
translated and published
“It means now We've got TWO mobs to lumber us—
for our own good.”
clandestinely by well-known
firms.
Tire private-case collection of
the British Museum, one of
the three notable collections of
erotica —the others are in the
Vatican library and the
Bibliotheque Nationale in Paris
—derives largely from a library
collected by a late-19th-century
British recluse named Ashbee,
better known by his nom-de-
plume, “Pisanus Fraxi.” Ashbee
bequeathed his library to the
British Museum, which had no
idea of the true nature of the
bequest until it had been in-
spected by museum officials.
It is heartening to find
that Liaisons Dangereuses, by
Choderlos de Laclos, and
Rosario —the Female Monk, by
“Monk” Lewis, have been
released. The first is one of
the wordiest accounts of seduc-
tion ever written —even by the
spacious standards of the 18th
century, while the second is a
famous Gothic extravaganza of
the Regency period.
As often happens with books
surreptitiously printed and sold
and often hastily translated and
set-up, some titles in the new
list have been jumbled and
misspelt. Guillaume Apolli-
naire, credited with writing The
Amorous Exploits of a Young
Rakehell, was the editor of the
famous Maitres de lAmour
series of reprints and transla-
tions published by the Biblio-
theque des Curieux in Paris at
the beginning of the. century,
The title, I Will Spit in Gour
Graues (!) (anon.) is intriguing,
apart from the misspellings,
and one wonders whether the
text is as corrupt as the title,
Judging from some slight
personal knowledge of erotica
gained in European libraries, I
would take issue with the
board’s inclusion of some titles,
simply on their lack of literary
merit.
The Minister for Customs
told the Senate “the list covers
only those publications which
are deemed by the Literature
Censorship Board to be of a
literary character and therefore
of special public interest.”
it therefore seems strange
that such gems, as Naughty
Hilda, by James Cane well,
School Life in Paris, The Spank-
j n g Diary of Rose Evans, and
stays and Gloves, by Lord
Kidrodstock, should be con-
sidered worthy of a place in a
“literary” list. These may be
worth preserving for the light
they shed on flagellation or
adolescent sexual aberrations;
but on no account as literature
in, say, the sense of My Life
and Loves, by Frank Harris,
It is unfortunate that such
books as the voluminous and
rambling autobiography, The
Lives of Fair and Gallant
Ladies, by Brantome, and the
works of Henry Miller, must
be treated in the same fashion
as the Ragionamenti of Aretino,
or Cleland’s Fanny Hill. These
last two treat exclusively of the
mechanics of sex, but the others
are attempts to portray life as
it is In fact for men and women
of ail ages.
From all points of view,
Senator Henty’s action in
having the list reviewed and
published is commendable. A
further great advance would
be to allow serious students of
literature, psychology and
human behavior access to these
books, which must form a
collection unique at least in
Australia. Would this be too
much to hope? - Eroticus
(A.C.T.).
A V.C. Winner
John Laffin’s article, “Diggers
who Stayed Behind,” (B.
23/4/’5B) was first-class, and
it brought back vivid
memories of the battle-
fields of the Somme and
around Armentieres.
But his reference to
Captain Clarence Smith
V.C., of the 34th
Battalion, A.1.F., should
have been to Clarence
Smith Jeffries. I well
recall the day Jeffries
won the V.C. that was
posthumously awarded
to him for attacking a
German pillbox near
Passchendaele and
wreaking havoc with the
occupants before falling
mortally wounded. “Jeff,” as
we knew him, came from
Abermain (N.S.W.), and was
a lieutenant in the 14th (Hunter
River) Regiment before the
1914-18 war. He sailed with
the 34th Battalion in May, 1916,
as a second-lieutenant. — Judee
(N.S.W.).
N.-W. Queensland Broad*
casts
.. „ ,
. e 9 ua “ty tb e broad-
casting i? erv ‘ ce rendered to
Queensland by the
, , been attacked
a " d
Anglican Bishop ’of
Queensland _ a p nd certainly
with justification
W e of the far-west of N.Q
have been informed that a
relaying-station is to be in-
stalled at Mount Isa, which
will be entirely automatic. The
m by
,me from Townsville, which is
“T
Jeglon of Queensland. How-
ratlius °f this station
a . m . ere , >° ™ f s ; “
should he at least 150 nules.
Anticipating a possible come-
back from the A.B.C. that the
Fongreach station caters for us,
me say that we do receive
tbe Longreach sessions with
their peculiarly Longreach
flavor, but our business and
geographic centre is Towns-
vifie, and now we cannot pick-
up that station except spas-
modically and scratchily. Our
plane- and tfain - services all
connect with the eastern coast.
Our most punctual newspaper
comes from Townsville, as do
all our foodstuffs. We send all
our wool, beef and minerals to
that city. In brief, we want
Townsville broadcasts, and we
want them without further
alibis and makeshift relay-
stations. Over to you, A.8.C.1;
— Norque (N. W. Qld).
I NDIAN
AIRWAYS


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
A large snowman and trails of autumn
flowers and foliage decorated the foyer
of St. Kilda Palais for the Royal Com-
monwealth Society Ball held in aid of the
building-fund. Among highlights of this
enjoyable function were the lightning-
sketches done by well-known black-and-
white artists, among them John Frith and
Betty Paterson. The official guests received
by the society’s president, Lieut.-General
Sir Horace Robertson, included Dr. Nor-
man Long and his mother, Mrs. Guy
Bakewell, Brigadier R. W. Tovell and
Mrs. Tovell, and the president of the
Younger Group, Michael Hancock.
Mrs. H. G. Connell, one of the ticket-
secretaries, wore a lovely gown of black
chantilly-lace which had floating side-
panels of black tulle. Her daughter-in-
law, Mrs. John Connell, chose flamingo-
pink silk-organza. Lady Hay’s gown was
of primrose-yellow chiffon. Mrs. Robert
Gardiner’s brocades were in green and
gold. A peacock-green chiffon gown high-
lighted with a trail of pink roses on the
skirt was the choice of Mrs. Frank Irving.
Pearls ornamented the bodice of the
white silk-taffeta gown worn by Robin
Paterson. Dierdre Leviny wore cream
satin-brocade, Helen Knight a sky-blue
satin gown. Sue Spencer’s midnight-
blue tulle gown was embroidered in
straw.
☆ ☆ ☆
Flowers in red, white and blue tonings
were used at the Royal Commonwealth
Society's luncheon in the Town Hall
at which the guest-speaker was the Chief
of the General Staff, Lieut.-General A. R.
Garrett, who with Mrs. Garrett was
received by the society’s president, Lieut.-
General Sir Horace Robertson, and Lady
White. Among those at the official table
were the Chief Justice of Australia (Sir
Owen Dixon), Capt. G. L. Fowle
(N.0.1.C., South-East Australian Area)
and Mrs. Fowle, Sir John Allison and
Major-General Sir Kingsley Norris and
Lady Norris.
V V V
Over 150 guests attended the luncheon
given by the Victoria League to celebrate
both Commonwealth Day and the 50th
anniversary of the league’s founding in
this city. The loyal toast was proposed
by the Lord Mayor (Cr. F. W. Thomas),
who was accompanied by Mrs. Thomas.
Deputy-president Lady Herring and
senior vice-president Mrs. Guy Bakewell
received the guests, among whom were
Lady Bruche (a former vice-president),
Mrs. Cameron Wilson, of Adelaide (who
is national president of the Victoria
League), and Miss Mary Chomley, who
was the first secretary of the league).
☆ ☆ *
The V.L.’s Young Contingent also ran
its own celebration, in the form of a
sherry-party, Pamela Middleton and Bar-
bara Hewitt receiving the guests. These
included Joan Derby (Hobart), Catherine
Lawrence (Launceston), Elizabeth Walker
(Geelong), Marion McPherson, Dr. Gytha
Wade (she hails from Brisbane, but is
in residence at the Royal Women’s Hos-
pital), Marjorie Tatnall, Kaye Hughes,
Ann Meredith, Charmian Watt, Max
Chapman, Bryan Foster, Graham Tucker
and John Little.
Marion, only child of Sir Clive
McPherson, of South Yarra, and the late
Lady McPherson, graduated in Law from
the University of Melbourne and was
later admitted to the Bar. During the
last war Marion served in the W.A.A.A.F.
as a junior officer. She is joint ticket-
secretary with Lady Connelly for the
Louts XIV dinner at' Menzies on June 5,
which will aid the Anti-Cancer Campaign
funds.
Lady Tait is arranging the Mother’s
Day concert, which will be held at the
Town Hall on June 8 in aid of the
Royal Women’s Hospital, of which Miss
Kathleen Syme is president. Members
of the “Cherry Blossom Show” will pro-
vide several new numbers ; John Hunter,
a member of the original Kiwi company,
will do some Noel Coward items; mem-
bers of Margaret Scott’s ballet will
dance “Aurora’s Wedding”; and the
Little Theatre will present numbers from
its Revue. Tickets may be obtained at
the Myer Emporium, from Mrs. Peter
Watkins (UY 1711) or Mrs. C. Weick-
hardt (UY 4648).
v v
Legacy funds will profit from the gay
supper-dance given at the Dorchester by
bachelors Guilford Bell, Tony Osborn,
Tom Lfixton, Warwick Purser, Richard
Allen, Marshall Baillieu, Simon Heath,
Christopher Chamberlen, John Groves,
Malcolm Brodie, Clive Smith and Rodney
Davidson. Among the guests were Mal-
colm Fraser, M.H.R., and Mrs. Fraser,
Dr. and Mrs. John Summers (she wear-
ing a lovely Grecian-style gown of white
chiffon), Sarah Luxton, Rosanne and Eve
Grimwade, Mrs. John Robertson (wear-
ing a short frock of peacock-green satin),
Angela Rau (in formal gown of white
silk-taffeta), Mrs. Robert Gove (her gown
of amethyst satin had the bodice draped
in deep-purple chiffon) and Quenten
Madden (wearing rose-beige taffeta).
* ☆ tfr
The American Women’s Auxiliary to
the Royal Children’s Hospital is always
right on the ball when it comes to pub-
licity. When Mrs. Mark Clements, the
president, and executive member Mrs.
Bohner came to see this Letter at The
Bulletin office, they brought seven-year-
old Bruce Bohner, dressed as Uncle Sam ;
he politely made a presentation of a box
candy and sang a paraphrase of
\ ankee Doodle Dandy.” The auxiliary’s
big Fourth of July Ball, proceeds of
which are for the work of the hospital,
will be held at St. Kilda Palais, and the
Governor and Lady Brooks will be
piesent with U.S. Consul-General
Graham Hall and Mrs. Hall. Tickets are
£2 ss. each and may be obtained from
ticket-secretaries Mrs. W. J. Bushwaller
(BM 1458) or Mrs. W. L. Bohner
(WX 4677).
n n &
Funds for the Anti-Cancer Campaign
are rising steadily—and they will be
further boosted by the Louis XIV dinner-
dance which will be held at Menzies on
June 5. There will be no expenses ; the
management of Federal Hotels are giving
everything. The Governor and Lady
Brooks will be welcomed with a fanfare
from heralds in the musicians’ gallery.
Car doors will be opened by wigged
coachmen* in gay livery; footmen in
courtdress of the period will light the
ante-room with candelabra, and in the
Chandelier Room, where dinner will be
served, will be more footmen and more
candelabra. The menu will be announced
by a French toastmaster, and there will
be a major-domo, a food-taster, a jester
and ladies-in-waiting with their com-
panions. A string orchestra will play
during dinner and a French group will
perform a minuet. Attendance will be
by invitation, at £lO a head.
ft *
The president, Margaret Mary Collins
(who wore a short sheath-frock of tobac
re-embroidered lace), and committee of
the St. Vincent Hospital Younger Set
did a grand job of organising their dinner-
dance at Stanmark, East St. Kilda;
proceeds were for the hospital’s building-
fund. In the official party were Mr. P.
Page (chairman of the hospital com-
mittee) and Mrs. Page; the medical
superintendent (Dr. W. Keane) and Mrs.
Keane ; and the hospital’s secretary, Mr.
R. Grace, and Mrs. Grace.


SYDNEY
There was an atmosphere of excitement
about the v city this week, perhaps due
to the exhilarating weather, perhaps to the
incidence (and accidents) of Empire
Night, which it is going to be so hard to
call “British Commonwealth Night,” and
perhaps to David Jones’ 120th birthday
with its helicopters, its Cobb and Co.
coaches, its elephant, and —most stimu-
lating to the imagination—those bottles
launched at the. Antarctic each contain-
ing an order for £lOO. “Probably the
Russians will find them,” said a cynic. “If
they can find an island, they ought to be
able to find a bottle.”
One harassed mother in D.J.’s basement
was observed to clap her hands over her
10-year-old son’s ears as the loudspeaker
mentioned that there was an exhibition of
birds on the fifth floor. “For goodness'
sake, don't let him hear about the birds,”
she said to her companion, “the elephant’s
been too much for me! ”
* ☆ ☆
To see the countries of the world
through the fresh eyes of children is a
pleasure which the Australian Council for
Child Advancement provides through its
exhibitions of child art. On last Sunday’s
sunny afternoon the council drew a big
crowd to the exhibition of its children’s
paintings from 12 countries at Cahill’s
restaurant, an exhibition which included
the 150 paintings by Australian children
which are to be sent abroad.
The paintings by Australian children
seem, on the whole, to be more colorful
and free than most of the others, even
though they do not have the technical
precision of many European exhibits.
The subjects they choose —the beaches,
boats, food, concerts, football, ballet-
give a lively picture of Australian life,
and there is a humor in many, notably in
an entry from Nowra, which is delight-
ful. Mr. Ron O’Brien, a vice-president,
said that the Australian exhibits vary very
greatly from year to year, sometimes be-
ing quite mediocre, other times almost
brilliant. Mrs. M. Kempster, the
honorary-secretary, said that these exhibi-
tions of child art are being held, in con-
junction with the Arts Council, in N.S.W.
country centres and create enormous
interest. The next port of call is Adelaide,
and after that Hay.
* V #
Dorothy Small, daughter of well-known
advertising executive Frank Small and
Mrs. Small, of Vaucluse, is busy making
preparations for her marriage in June to
Peter Farrell, who arrives from Calgary,
Canada, early in the month. Dorothy’s
brother Frank, a star five-eighth of East-
ern Suburbs Rugby Union Firsts, is at
present working in Toronto, Canada,
learning all about advertising. Dorothy
herself returned only recently from a
working holiday in Europe, Canada and
the U.S., and after the wedding will
return to Canada, where she and Peter
will make their home.
Many parties to celebrate British
Commonwealth Day were held during
the week. The Governor, at the recep-,
tion given by the Conference of Loyal
Societies, spoke feelingly of the part
which England must always play in the
Commonwealth. He said we must think
back to Elizabethan England when,
though her power, riches and numerical
strength were comparatively small, she
exerted a great influence through her
vitality and by her liberal thought.
Today she has these same qualities to
offer, but in making her influence felt
.she needs our help. The reception was
attended by about 200 members of The
Royal Commonwealth Society, the Vic-
toria League and the Overseas League,
which were represented respectively by
Mr. Ivan Black, M.L.A., and Mrs. Black,
Mrs. H. H. McNall, and Major and Mrs.
Cecil Chapman.
Married at St. Phillip’s on Saturday,
Pamela Eindhoven wore a family-heir-
loom brooch on her gown of lace and
satin. Pamela is the daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Casimir, of Ash field, and her hus-
band is Adrian Van Oyen Eindhoven, of
Holland. She was attended by Imogen
Cooper. Photo by Norton Trevaire.
It was not surprising to hear that
Ronnie Ronalde, that amazing whistler,
yodeller and singer, star of the Tivoli’s
new show, “Sugar and Spice,” started
as a choir-boy at St. Bartholomew’s,
London. He still has that chubby, little-
boy look and his polite bows every time
he mentions his manager, together with
his shy remarks (“As the stage-manager
says it’s all right, I can sing another
song”), give him an unusual charm and
appeal. But, of course, it is his amazing
whistling that makes one wish the stage-
manager would take himself off for an
hour or so, for the bird-calls in “A
Monastery Garden,” for instance, are
extraordinarily beautiful, and his singing
of such songs as “If I Were a Blackbird”
would merit innumerable encores.
The stalwart work of the Y.W.C.A. is
so widely acknowledged in the com-
munity that many tend to take it for
granted. However, next Friday all its
well-wishers will have an easy oppor-
tunity to help, as the “Y’s” first com-
plete Button Day is to be held then.
During the luncheon-break girls from
the “Y” and boys from the Y.M.C.A.
will give a physical-education display in
Hyde Park, two of the main features
being fencing and judo.
* * ☆
An exciting fashion-preview in aid of
Red Cross is scheduled for the Trocadero
on Monday, June 9. Everything that
contributes to “the look” for 1958 will
be on show, cosmetics, lingerie, etc., as
well as dresses and furs. Lunch will be
served and a musical programme has
been arranged by Mr. Lindley Evans.
The lucky-number programmes will give
someone a prize of a pig-skin beauty-
case ; the lucky number will be drawn
by Diana Adams, prima ballerina of the
New York City Ballet. Radio and TV
personality Harry Dearth will be M.C.
and the preview will be opened by the
Lady Mayoress, Mrs. H. F. Jensen, at
11.15 a.m. It all seems extremely good
value for £1 Is., the price of the tickets.
And, besides, it’s for Red Cross.
CANBERRA
General Sir Francis Festing, C.-in-C.
Far East Land Forces, with Lady Festing,
were house-guests of the U.K. High
Commissioner and Lady Carrington dur-
ing their busy three-day visit to the
capital.
☆ ☆ *
The Victoria League's dinner-dance at
the Hotel Ainslie-Rex in celebration of
Commonwealth Day was a successful
“do.” Decorations in the Carlton Lounge
included a large portrait of the Queen,
surrounded by flags of the Common-
wealth. The president, Mrs. lan Baird,
who welcomed the guests with her hus-
band, wore a frock in black lace over
cinnamon taffeta. Among the dancers
were Mr. and Mrs. Ken Anderson, her
short frock in Oriental pink chiffon ; vice-
president Mrs. S. Minto with her hus-
band ; Mrs. E. K. Geach, attractive in
turquoise-silk taffeta ; Mrs. Dennis Mason
who chose pearl-grey organza and lace ;
secretary Mrs. B. Press, her ballerina in
harlequin taffeta ; Mr. and Mrs. R. L.
Hawke ; Miss J. Johnston ; Mr. and Mrs.
Richard Luker, and Mr. and Mrs. John
Scollay.
v v- v
Old Boys of Riverview College .(still
celebrating the Head-of-the-River win)
came from Goulburn, Gunning, Young,
Yass and Queanbeyan for a dinner at the
Hotel Canberra. Many speeches were
made —including one by the Rector of
Riverview, Father F. Wallace, S.J., up
from Sydney for the occasion.


• . npr • th ~ n mprp
talk and theory: with the aid of the
natives the expedition raised one of the
old fallen statues unriaht aeain cen-
turies after the “shot-fears 1 in' their
rebellion or in their subsequent tribal
wars had pushed it flat on its face..
And uaain with the co nnention of
And. a to am with the co operation or
the natives, who fortunately believed
that Heyerdahl had supernatural
that Heyerdahl had supernatura
powers and was one of themselves, a
“long-ear from Norway,” they got into
the secret caves, never previously
explored, and there found the most
fantastic and unheard-of treasures: —
Here were curiosities which would
make an art-dealer tear his hair with
excitement: the whole cave was full
of unknown primitive works of art.
No museum in the world had figures
of this kind: every single object was
an ethnographic novelty which gave
us the strangest impression of the
Easter Islanders’ secret and bizarre
world of the imagination. . . . Every-
thing was represented, from human
beings and mammals to birds, fishes,
Ze'S
there were groups of figures carved
on the same stone, such as two bird-
men holding between .them a strange
cat-like animal. There were also
many distorted figures and monsters,
with an occasional head here and
there, and some sculptures which
none of us understood at all.
But on the other hand, while record-
mg; all these magnificent discoveries-
an . d reproducing many of them 'n the
colored illustrations—Heyerdahl does
t0 f r ®‘ ate ‘ h f” , t 0 hls gener ?‘
theoiy of the South American origin
° f the . long-ears. Time and again he
does ’ ,l 1S true ’ P oint to a similar,ty ’
and he has a final chapter stressing the
• t Rnt Hnp „ * intn °. irh
P oin ., does not 8° in ;° muctl
detail, nor does he reproduce, for com-
• e n American statmrv and
„otte?v’ Sh Amencan btatua y d
p “ y ', r ,
says little about the most mys-
terious of all the Easter Island mys-
tenes, the rongo-rongo tablets cov-
Sl Qd Wlth a script , in
He was shown an old book, a native s
ancestral treasure, in which the picture-
writing was transcribed and so it
seems partly vtranslated into the
natives Polynesian dialect. From this,
if it were reliable, the whole Easter
Island riddle could conceivably be
unravelled: but Heyerdahl, beyond
recording the discovery, is silent.
j-j e j s noncommital again on what
must have been one of his® most gratify-
discoveries—that of a few pieces
of pottery in the caves, and of a stone
carved in the form of pre-Inca pot- -
tery. The pre-Inca South Americans
were potters: the absence of pottery in
the Pacific was one of the greatest
weaknesses in Heyerdahl’s otherwise
extremely persuasive argument. Now
he finds pottery—a little—and is
reserved about t.
Obviously, with a prudence no doubt
very proper, he is reserving comment
'“‘‘m k oo|< - ° nce . agai . n
1! 000 readers will be wa.tmg for it
with the utmost eagerness.
And in the meantime, for the four-
million or a few less there is this
a tew less mere is tms
most amusing and exciting travel-book,
w jth the skulls and the skeletons and
, n ine SKUIIS and ttie skeletons and
the sorcerers, with the tragedy that
happened when the children came for
a tr jp on t h e i aunc h, with the secret
visitors to the tent and the midnight
excursions to the caves, with the dang-
ling over c flff s and gett j ng j ost j n we j rd
underground tunnels, with the reed-
rafts floating in the crater of the extinct
volcano.- with Father Sebastian kindly
ruling his little flock in all matters
except those of ancestral superstition,
with the sailors vanishing over the hill
on horseback in the direction of the
hula-dancers, with the lobster-fishing
and the influenza-epidemic when the
Chilean warship put in, with the mar-.
vel.ous hidde„ P f Iptures and. above
all, with the great statues up to seven-
stones high in one unfinished specimen,
stalking silent and mysterious through
the island . . . and now beginning to
talk.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 488
Across
I—Egg-laying mammals evade their financial obligations. (9)
s—lt5 —It goes back by punt in the country. (5)
8— A tonic for the musical commotion. (3)
9 Coddled girl by a boy. (8)
11 —Promote fermentation. (4)
13 —Use the spade against some Italian if lacking a poison. (9)
15— Is he frightened by any Christmas entertainer of great
versatility. (4, 6)
16 — Business figure which is the minimum comment from
the dovecote. (3)
18 —Girl who doesn't believe a boy who is skilled in
interpreting symptoms. (13)
19— Like this around a Portuguese
saint. (3)
21— Touchdown essay. (3)
22 Bush clerk was injured by
this wildly picturesque adven-
turer. (12)
26—Brown heartens Britannia. (3)
28 —Paving standards’ sounds. (10)
31 —Secretly murdering though
behaving with considerable hesi-
tancy. (9)
34 — An Aunt Sally. Gray. (4)
35 — Steam-yacht vestments’ alter-
nate heart-beats. (8)
36 — You should get a footing at the
North Pole. (3)
37 — State the French morning
obeisance. (6)
38— A bolter beat it! (7)
\
Down
1— Expresses a view in the midst of
stupidity. (8)
2 Dejected holiday-maker near
Sydney University. (10)
3 A scribe coming from an
Italian city. (7)
4 Change daily girl. (5)
5 Sour girl of inconsiderable
reputation. (4)
6 i had ale mixed according to a
perfectionist standard. (5)
7 Basin delivery. (4)
10 — Improperly widen a boy. (5)
11— Remark at bridge is in order! (3)
12 — Mark 1000 with the word of
opposite meaning. (7)
14 —Gray French islands named after
King George. (4)
16 — One hundred taking it to a boy
and a girl offender of mos-
‘quitoes. (10)
17— with this article in an
alternative. (3)
20— Norse name- ,a State of Aus-
tralia. (3)
23 — How Buddha starts a Moslem
isle of the Indies. (4)
24 — Geary bashful about some
horse? (5)
25 Napoleon's mother has to allow
it one article. (7).
26 — Gives some order to it
improperly and kicks the
bucket. (6)
27 — Flies as a family. (5)
28— Pan a playwright. (3)
29 Roman goose earns change. (5)
30 — Signal of distress over nothing
is neither good nor bad. (2-2)
32 Post-boy coming up. (4)
33 — Hear from this South American
ostrich? (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 487
The Bulletin, May 28, 1958


A FAMOUS FREE BOOKLIST SERVICE
• Over 2.000 people receive the Free Booklists from MARY MARTIN
BOOKSHOP every month. It is a unique service in Australia. It is
wonderful for country people who find it difficult to keep in touch
with books: it is a boon to mothers too busy for bookbuying expeditions:
it is the ideal scheme for the overworked doctor, dentist, bank official,
business man.
© It’s amazing—not only people in New Guinea, Fiji, North Queensland,
but also people who work in the heart of Martin Place, Sydney, find
it pays them to do their bookbuying in the dreary little provincial city
of Adelaide.
EACH MONTH YOU RECEIVE:
(I) P APERBACKS LISTS
A complete catalogue of all new Penguin,
Pan, Fontana, and other series.
(II) SPECIAL BARGAIN LIST
We specialise in “remainders.” Our
clients get enormous fun from our special
bargains. They often acquire treasures
which amply repay the bother of buying
books in distant Adelaide.
(III) NEW BOOK CATALOGUE i
Our own booklists give news of all pub- §
!ications just out. Unconventional and |
human, the lists are anything but high- \
pressure in approach. You'll find them \
cjuite amusing reading.
(IV) “BOORGLTDE” MAGAZINE
This illustrated and excellent British §
periodical is distributed free to our 5
devoted clients. But as it bumps up our 5
postage costs you contribute 7/6 per year r
if you would like to receive it. |
Apply NOW to be placed on our mailing list.
Semi 7/6 only if you want to receive “Bookguide” in addition to our free monthly lists.
If you are ever in Adelaide, don’t fail to visit us in our beautiful air-conditioned shop.
MARY MARTIN BOOKSHOP
Da Costa Building (First Floor), Gawler Place,
ADELAIDE
SAIL HO!
My Early Years at Sea
by SIR JAMES iISSET
Sir James Bisset, war-time commander of the Cunard Line, looks back zestfully to
adventures ashore and afloat in the days of sail at the turn of the century. His breezy
yams are completely absorbing for all who like stories of adventure, and his reliable picture
of sailing-ship days is an outstanding contribution to the literature of the sea. Illustrated
with 16 pages of photographs. 25/- (post lid.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Notes from New Zealand
The Australian censorship system is
only partially understood in New
Zealand, but the recent publication of
the list of books banned in Australia
has caused some interest, as several
of these books are readily obtainable
in New Zealand—Gore Vidal’s City
and the Pillar, Vivian Connell’s The
Chinese Room and the translation of
The Golden Lotus, for instance.
New Zealanders also find it hard to
make head or tail of a country 1 which
on one hand bans books such as T. E.
Lawrence’s unexpurgated edition of
The Mint, and on the other permits
lurid pulp-magazines and daily-press
stories.
New Zealand’s book - censorship
system, which booksellers readily admit
is at present in a state of some con-
fusion, is a particularly tolerant one
which has not caused trouble for many
years. Censorship in New Zealand is
directed mainly at Leeping out those
very magazines which Australia
produces so successfully.
The import - restrictions in New
Zealand are causing great concern to
bookshops, some of which fear they
will have to close before the year is
out.
In the book world special treatment
is being given to school textbooks,
musical textbooks, religious, medical,
legal and technical books. Last time
import-restrictions were imposed on
books, only school textbooks and
religious books were given preferential
treatment. But during 1958 all other
books will be cut by 40 per cent, which
in practice means that the cut will be
nearer 50 per cent., as since 1956, the
year on which the cut is to be based,'
the price of books as well as postage
has risen slightly.
The Booksellers’ Association says,
“This reduction of book-imports to
nearly half will lower the quality of
stocks in the country. For we have to
face it: a good bookshop is usually
made possible by the fact that there are
best-sellers to pay the rent. With turn-
over so heavily cut, even the best book-
seller dare not take the risk of unsold
books.”
The circulation figures of many Aus-
tralian as well as British and American
magazines will suffer from these
restrictions. Where bookshops had
10 copies of an overseas magazine
before, they will now have four.
“Restriction of the free circulation of
reading material is foreign to our
British tradition,” says a leaflet of the
Associated Booksellers. “Why should
we now treat readers as third-class
citizens?”
J.M.T.
Reviewed Briefly
The Lightning’s Eye: Richard
Savage (Museum Press). A mystery
with “atmosphere,” the latter being
provided by a small run-down town in
Southern Italy where everyone is very
sour. Richard Savage tries to be too
clever. If he concentrated on writing
a straightforward mystery without
dressing it up with outlandish figures
of speech and “significant” figures he
would be more successful.
4 » * #
Seasons of Jupiter: Anand Lall
(Cape). A novel of Indian customs,
more particularly the story of a young
landowner's search for personal satis-
faction. No political undercurrents,
no twinge of racial feeling: but a suc-
cession of fruitless love-affairs, cul-
minating with a seven-year sojourn as
a hermit, when his companion is a
thrush which lingers after the other
birds have flown south, and dies.
* * •* *
Manta: Seymour Shubin (Benn).
A young American couple holidaying
in Caracas meet a millionaire “with
sharp bronzed features and glistening
black wavy hair etched with white at
the temples,” and spend a long weekend
at his coastal “shack.” The husband
yearns after the millionaire’s calendar-
girl mistress, while the wife and the
millionaire yearn after each other;
and in between they hunt giant manta-
rays in the millionaire’s yacht. The
mistress is killed by a mania before any
more serious harm is done.


“I strongly recommend
the AALC plan for
key personnel* wi ‘ '
Let the M.L.C. MAN show you
how to derive the maximum benefits ...
£ The tax deduction of up to £2OO or sc/c5 c/ c of salary per
annum (whichever is greater) now allowed to a private
or public company in respect of director- or shareholder-
employees included in a properly constituted Superan-
nuation Trust. Even huger deductions may be allowed
where “special circumstances’’ can be shown to exist.
$ The exclusion from death duties of Superannuation
Trust benefits.
• An adequate retiring allowance for them at the
desired age for retirement.
$ Ample security for their dependants should they die
prior to retirement. It is of the utmost importance
that the benefits be “Fully secured for the execu-
tive or his dependants.” The M.L.C. has available
a form of Trust Deed which has been approved
by the Commissioner of Taxation for this purpose
and which can be modified to suit their special j
renuirements. j
Be well advised by the M.L.C. Man,
The
M.L.C.
(Incorporated in iN.S.W.)
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company Limited.
KLIS2FP
