

The Bulletin
Party on Morotai —page 34
Wednesday, April 16, 1958
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Kegistered In Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
"If you don't pay more attention to your lessons yen'll get nowhere in this world."


SHORT STORY WRITING
—A FASCINATING AND
PROFITABLE STUDY
Stott Students are taught how to write
stories that sell and are advised by the
College of the names and addresses of
reputable Literary Agents in various
countries who may be trusted to handle
Students’ MSS. to the best advantage.
A Student wrote: “l feel that, as a result
of taking the Course, 1 am able to go on, know-
ing •what is wanted, and how to do it. I have
learned all about the market, what different
papers require, the rates of payment, etc.”
If "VOU have a Story to tell, learn how
to tell it. This lucrative field of Author-
ship is waiting to pay well for good work.
Stotts Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh
St.. Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane;
21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St
Perth.
——CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON- -
To STOTT S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
• AGE (S.B. 858)
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney
A service for readers. That difficult t®
obtain volume, let us find it for you—Action,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderat
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
THREE ART BOOKS
The fact that Jean-Louis Vaudoyer’s
The Female Nude (Longmans) begins
with a carved bone of the Magdalenian
period labelled “Woman on a
Reindeer” might be taken as evidence
of the extreme antiquity of the nude
as a subject for art; but the odd thing
is that, in the reproduction at all events,
the recumbent figure in the carving
which presumably has been taken to
represent a woman looks, especially
when turned sideways, much more like
a kangaroo.
It does not look in the least like the
familiar “running women” of cave- and
bushman-paintings; it lacks the
anatomical charms which those early
realists would have been the first to
observe; and really the only thing one
can say with assurance of it is that the
unknown bone-carver certainly knew
how to draw the hind-legs of a
reindeer.
Some other points which must occur
to the student of this handsome book
include the useful prevalence of fig-
leaves, which only in the most recent
times have tended to disappear; the
curious resemblance of Hieronymus
Bosch's surrealist “globes” to the very
latest in sputniks; the regrettable
absence of Etty —one would hardly
expect a European book to have
caught up to Norman Lindsay; and
the general ugliness of the con-
temporary nude, upon which the editor,
who is a member of the Academie
Francaise, comments: —
It is disturbing to find that almost
all “nudes” painted during the last
fifty years or so....are not only
devoid of grace but give the im-
pression of varying degrees of
physical debility and deformity.
When confronted by these paintings
it is impossible to avoid a feeling of
sadness and compassion. Whence
comes, amongst so many modern
painters, this tendency towards a
more-or-less disparaging distortion
of the human form?... .Today,
forced to live in an accursed uni-
verse, the unfortunate artist some-
times mocks, outrages creation and
humanity, sometimes denies the
existence of the external world and
resorts to a rigidly abstract, cerebral,
inhuman art no less conventional in
its pedantry than academic art.
Which, if true, seems a little unkind
of the artists. If the universe is
“accursed,” need they make it worse?
For the rest, “The Female Nude” is
an admirable compendium, with eight
plates in color and 142 in black-and-
white, suffering only from the inevitable
disadvantage that you can never really
tell from reproductions, even in color,
what the originals are like. Rubens,
who painted flesh so that it glowed like
roses, hardly looks the equal here of
the rather murky and obscure little oils
of Fragonard.
The same faintly sceptical outlook
on much of contemporary art as is
expressed in “The Female Nude”
unexpectedly recurs in Sir John
Rothenstein’s The Modems (Phoenix):
This corrosion of confidence in
the visible universe and the validity
of our perceptions—and a certain
dwindling of interest and curiosity
—has had some obvious drawbacks.
I shall refer to only two of them.
What began in an atmosphere of
revolution and was conducted
through a renunciation of the world
and the flesh has become in a way
too easy and oddly devoid of tension
—great art would seem to postulate
a struggle with recalcitrance. It has
also, in this same renunciation,
renounced a limitless repository of
forms, as limitless, namely, as the
visible universe.
Sir John agrees with Ozenfant that,
insofar as it is possible to generalise,
the characteristic of “modern art” is
that the artist has discarded Nature and
sought to invent his own forms—“ The
one consideration is that the self be
satisfied” —and it has always seemed
to this reviewer that there are two
possible outlooks on this revolt. To
declare yourself superior to Nature is
on the one hand an act of great courage,
opening new worlds to human achieve-
ment; on the other hand, when Nature
has been so long in the creating
business, and has done pretty well at
it, it is rather arrogant. So, no doubt,
we have had in recent times both
adventurous art and merely arrogant
art.
Rothenstein, after voicing his doubts
and reservations, takes the only reason-
able standpoint; that you cannot
generalise; that modern art is not one
thing, or one style, but a hundred; and
each painting must simply be judged
on its merits. Again with the reser-
vation that reproductions aren’t really
much use, “The Moderns” will be a
helpful guide for anyone anxious to
form his own opinions. There are 96
plates, half of them in color, opening
with Cezanne and closing with Rivera
and including, besides the well-known
Parisian groups, such English painters
as Graham Sutherland, Matthew Smith
and Francis Bacon.
Charles Addams’s Nightcrawlers
(Hamilton) should perhaps not be
mentioned in such serious company,
being merely a collection of his joke-
blocks from the “New Yorker” and
elsewhere ; but Addams has at least a
clear connection with one aspect of
contemporary art in his celebrated
gruesomeness—which, fortunately, is
milder and less murky than before in
this amusing volume.
ON THE WIND
The red hawk hangs upon the wind
And the wind strips the ridges bare :
AH things go with it but the mind
That rides at peace in hurrying air.
And in the silence finds its voice,
Leaving like larks its songs behind:
The tempests come, they keep their poise ;
The seasons change and they are there.
Blow then and strip these blonding plains,
These delicate round hills. The blind
Are'murderous, yet the hawk remains
And all of time in his still stare.
a.c.t.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
The Inhospitable Universe
To anyone looking forward to space-
travel next year or shortly afterwards
The Astronomer’s Universe by Bart
J. Bok, director of the Mount Stromlo
Observatory at Canberra (Melbourne
University Press), is somewhat for-
bidding.
Professor Bok is not quite sure
whether Venus is all ocean or all desert
(“We must continue to scrutinise it”)*
(i Continued on page 58)


BM
/ ■ -
■ •
■ ■
■
Hi
i
.
:
There are jew industries not served hy DAVID BROWN products
S <PF°M
et[l pun
largest Aerofoil
\
Crushing Mill *
From time to time the David Brown Group of Companies
carry out work for projects which rank as the biggest of
their kind. The most recent example was the produc-
tion, by the Jackson Division of David Brown Industries
Limited, England, of a cast steel spur gear 25 ft. 10 ins.
diameter and weighing nearly 25 tons. The purpose
of this giant is to drive the largest Aerofall Ball Mill yet made. The mill is being installed in
Southern Rhodesia, where it will be employed at the Sinoia copper mine in breaking copper ore.
When it comes to farm mechanisation, David Brown is in the forefront all of the time. One of the largest tractor
and implement manufacturers, David Brown, with its teams of skilled specialist engineers, has a notable record
of initiative and achievement that must be hard to match anywhere in the world. Power Lift—6-speed Gear Box—
2-speed P.T.O. and TCU (Traction Control Unit) are some of the many firsts which have kept David Brown out in
front. When it comes to modern farming the David Brown concept is as up-to-date as to-morrow’s dawn.
The range includes 18 wheeled and crawler models from 14 to 50 h.p., and over 60 matched implements. You
name the job—David Brown will do it.
RAD ICON WORM REDUCERS
TURBINE GEAR UNITS
HELICAL SINGLE REDUCING OR INCREASING G EAR UNITS
HEUCAL DOUBLE OR TRIPLE REDUCING GEAR UNITS
MARINE DRIVES
SPIRAL BEVEL UNITS
AUTOMOBILE AND COMMERCIAL VEHICLE GEARBOXES
PATENTED WORM GEARS
GEARS Of ALL TYPES
ROLOID GEAR PUMPS
COVENTRY GEARED MOTORS
KEIGHLEY STOCK SPUR GEARS
PROFILE GROUND HOBS AND GEAR GENERATING CUTTERS
PATENTED FLOATING REAMERS
wimn
UltlltlW
ggilllil
THE DAVID BROWN CROUP OF COMPANIES
'.-J*aC7OR OIVISiG.*
• Scptm* WANeii
- ; "^piNbURG^
piN'"
. RAOiCON OIV.'SIQN
■ i; i •
JACKSON DIVISION
'.’'WANCHKTfcR
DB2I.FP
•JIGS t FIXTURES
QIA* JESTING EQUIPMENT
HYDRAX PRODUCTION GEAR NOBBING MACHINE
SPUR AND HELICAL GEAR AND SPLINE NOBBING
MACHINES
GEAR SHAVING MACHINES
RELIEVING LATHE
ALLOY AND CARBON STEEL CASTINGS
AIRCRAFT STEEL CASTINGS
AIRCRAFT QUALITY STEfL CASTINGS
PRECISION CASTINGS
JAUKUS BRONZE CASTINGS
• HEAVY DUTY GEARS
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL TRACTORS
INDUSTRIAL AND MARINE ENGINES
FARMING IMPLEMENTS
ASTON MARTIN CARS
LAGONDA CARS
DAVID BROWN (A/ASKA) PTY. LIMITED
Cnr. Derby and Wetherill Sfreets, Lidcombe, N.S.W.
Australian associate of the world-famous DAVID BROWN GROUP OF COMPANIES


The Bulletin
Wednesday, April 16, 1958
Vol . 79—No. 4079
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 ; ’Phene: BU 5971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
A NEW REVOLUTION
A striking aspect of the current age is
the manner in which technology
advances and heavy industry develops
in the face of discouragement by
Governments and threats by Welfare
Staters.
No major industrial community could
operate under a worse Government than
the N.S.W. State Government, which
aims to have it both ways, claiming to
work for the development of private
industry while subscribing to
Socialistic doctrines and the destruc-
tion of private enterprise. Few
Governments have done less or imposed,
more inequitable burdens on regional
development than the long series of
Queensland Labor Governments.
All Labor Governments seek concen-
tration of population for their own
political purposes, and for Socialism.
And, truth to tell, non-Labor Govern-
ments do little to combat the tendency.
Yet, despite the fact that through the
unions Labor has means of dragooning
the “masses” to vote solidly for
Socialism, and though the State has the
whip-hand over private enterprise
through the opportunities provided by
socialised road-transport and ports and
the weapon of taxation, all the ten-
dencies of the age are towards private
enterprise, not only here but in most
much larger nations.
The Canadian electoral vote was a
sweeping one for the private-enterprise
idea; a devastating blow to the young
Socialism which in the past few years
had been making headway in the
great northern Dominion.
In Australia for nearly 10 years the
Commonwealth electors have supported
a private-enterprise Government—even
though, in fact, it sometimes gives
little more than lip-service to the
ideals which it professes. The Socialist
State Governments are one by one dis-
appearing, until even in N.S.W., the
great stronghold a decade since of
“Socialism in 10 years,” the writing
appears to be on the wall.
No matter how ambitious the young
Australian who becomes a unionist and
an A.L.P. supporter, his hands are
tied. He is told not to work one whit
harder than the drunkard or dullard or
loafer beside him. He must give-up any
aspiration of working his way upward.
He must submit to a sort of enslave-
ment to brakes and checks on his
energy and ability. The ideal of class-
war unionism is the helot com-
munity.
He is told every day of the vast
resources of the country, of its great-
ness and destiny, but all the share of
it that he is offered by his leaders is
the right to earn exactly the same as the
man next-door, and that only so long
as he responds to the discipline of the
union-secretary, is prepared to support
the “class-war,” to strike when he is
told to strike, to take the pay the union
tells him to take and no more, to hate
the boss he works for, to serve the ideal
of the destruction of freedom of
thought, and help in the ostracism of
those of his fellows —like the Hurseys
in Tasmania—who claim the right to
support the line in politics in which
they believe, and not the one in which
some surly follower of the Kremlin tells
them they must support.
Strangely, though it is not yet
realised, there is an almost universal
revolt against the sordid “idealism” of
the Left, which seemed for a time to be
gaining the ascendency.
A real revolution is in progress con-
temporaneously with the development
of power and raw materials throughout
the Commonwealth. In the coal
industry a decade ago it would have
been madness to attempt to introduce
incentive-payments or to consider
increase of production as permanent
policy. The Communist-led unions
which dominated mining would have
had implicit obedience on calling a
general strike.
Today they can only pretend leader-
ship in overall policy, as mechanisation,
incentive-payments and automation
come forward.
Moreover, where for a generation it
was almost dangerous, for anyone to
advocate amalgamation of mines, the
latest writer on the subject, Professor
Phillips, of the N.S.W. University of
Technology (whom the unions have
always looked on as their man), has
advocated in a pamphlet published by
the Australian Institute of Mining and
Metallurgy a “common front” in coal-
mining, with amalgamation for
economy, but a common front “not
incompatible” with the full mainten-
ance of private enterprise. A few years
ago he would have been denounced as
an advocate of the principle of the
“vend.” •
It is the same in other industries.
Under Socialism on the Snowy River
scheme the vast Adaminaby Dam pro-
ject was a byword for loaf and
Under the influence of a
bonus-paying private company with the
power of inspiration, a single week
after the takeover saw the working-
staff on the dam putting-up records,
showing what, with the incentives
which their Labor leaders have
always sought to deny them, the
Australian workers can do.
On the Snowy, as elsewhere, the
Australian workman can show a clean
pair of heels to any other worker, even
to the vaunted Stakhanovites of the
Workers’ Only Fatherland (in which
the loaf which the Commonwealth’s
admirers of Russian Communism
advocate here is a capital offence).
Australian labor, when it is
at its best and when it works con-
tinuously, does not , produce at the
expense of the economy. Australian
steel, for instance, for all the handicaps
imposed indirectly on it by the “class-
war” and the high wages and inefficient
transport which are among the bur-
dens of its producers, is the cheapest
in the world.
It is only now that the full oppor-
tunities of all Australian regions are
beginning to come into view. The
essential factor in changing the age
and its standards of work and living
is power-development hinging not on
the p'ush of public enterprise but on the
pressure of the need and will to expand
of the great heavy-industry concerns
like 8.H.P., Zinc Corporation and the
like, backed by the public utilities
carrying-on outside political control.
The plans of the B.H.P. at Whyalla,
the aluminium project at Weipa (whose
sponsors are acquiring most of the
Blair Athol coalfield i n Central
Queensland and are now investigating
the hydroelectric resources of New
Guinea), and the extension of the Snowy
River plans are all more important
than the old-fashioned politics of the
brotherhood of man and the false mate-
ship under which workers are expected
to stick together in a vast conspiracy
aimed by its inventors to pull-down
the “capitalist system”—the system
which has given full employment,
modem homes and motor-cars to the
workers in an age directly following a
catastrophic war.
The successful Governments of the
next decades will be those which
encourage expansion, the production of
cheap power, the development of
regions centring round the great
mineral-production belts and water
and hydroelectric sources.
Even Labor Premiers of the Cahill
type, Socialists and advocates of loaf
and shorter hours —at least in private
enterprise—realise this. They also
realise, though some of them as yet
only dimly, that they cannot stem the
tide which is swinging in favour of
private investment and the sharing of
profits and responsibilities as between
employer and employee.


"NOW DON'T LET ME HAVE TO COME TO YOUR AID AGAIN!"


PLAIN ENGLISH
Man Bites Dog—Perhaps
The announcement by Mr. Holt that the
Communists were responsible for the
nationwide hold-up on the wharves
following a dispute with the Stevedoring
Authority over gang-sizes is scarcely
news.
The Communists have been respon-
sible for every hold-up of the kind. The
union is led by Communists; * their
advocates in the courts have often been
Communists.
What would be news would be a state-
ment from the Minister that real action
had been taken to prevent a subversive
and foreign-based body from gradually
destroying the Australian shipping-
industry, and particularly the coastal
shipping-industry.
Almost every time a dispute goes to
the Arbitration Commission or a court
from the wharf-industry there are illegal
stoppages and demonstrations and dis-
ruption of industry ; then on the day
before the hearing is due everybody goes
back to work so that the W.W.F. advo-
cate can assure the judge that they are
obeying the law.
Since December last there has been
an organised series of such disturbances,
and tens-of-thousands of pounds have
been spent in costs dealing with the most
absurd claims always backed by threats
and lawlessness.
Last December a dispute began in
Queensland, where the Communist
leaders of the W.W.F. had tried
to force the Queensland Wheat
Board, which is not registered under
the Stevedoring Act and which
cannot, therefore, legally employ
wharflaborers, to use wharfies away from
the wharves to,,stack wheat. The legal
proceedings were gradually expanded
until they involved a claim for general
preference in employment in the wharf-
industries for members of the W.W.F.,
with more than 50 counsel (including six
Q.C.s) and solicitors and instructing-
clerks involved.
In the face of a decision by the Full
High Court in December it seemed
impossible that this could succeed, it
being obviously beyond the power of an
Arbitration Commission judge to rule on
it, but the action was barefacedly carried
on with the rumblings of threats and
stoppages in the background.
In Tasmania there has been the Hursey
episode with all its implications of threat
and violence and of intimidation to
force free Australian citizens to
subsidise a political party to which they
were hostile, or else lose their livelihood.
Yet nobody in authority seems to have
the backbone to do more than talk.
Mr. Holt says that the current stop-
page was obviously timed and staged
with the intention of intimidating the
Stevedoring Industry Authority, and this
process of intimidation had been intensi-
fied by a personal attack on the union-
member of the Authority, Mr. Shortell,
who was denounced by Comrade Healy
as an agent of the Democratic Labor
Party—a charge less serious, one would
imagine, than the one admitted by Mr.
Healy of being an agent of the Coln-
munist Party Central Committee, a body
which has shown that it is afraid to keep
books and one of whose leaders was
adjudged by the .judges of the Petrov
Commission to have received a large
sum of money through the Soviet Union
Embassy.
The attack on Mr. Shortell, according
to Mr. Holt, was a long-term project of
which he .knew well before it was made
and showed the “familiar Communist
technique.”
It is not only the Communist technique
that is familiar. The day that Canberra
takes action to stop this sort of thing
will produce news of the order of “Man
Bites Dog.” Scolding is little deterrent
to Communist tactics.
Picasso Peace Dove
In a TV interview in Melbourne during
the week-end Dr. Evatt told his audience
that some progress might be made in
healing the breach between the A.L.P.
and the Democratic Labor Party if they
shared preferences in the Victorian
elections.
He said specifically that Labor would
give its preferences to the D.L.P., and
he thought the D.L.P. might give its
preferences to the A.L.P. »He is so
zealous for a rapprochement that he is
willing to stand-down from the leader-
ship if he is convinced that “such a
move would lead to real agreement
between the parties”—one in which the
A.L.P. would not be asked to change
vital policy-points.
He is launching a dove of peace, but
a dove on the Picasso model.
The D.L.P. only exists because, in his
difficulties over the Petrov Commission,
Dr. Evatt turned to sectarianism as a red-
herring to take the public mind off his
associations with the Communist party.
Some other issues were discussed by
Dr. Evatt, which show how forlorn he
appears to be about Labor’s future. He
PARTY ON MOROTAI—
page 34
won’t introduce nationalisation of bank-
ing without a referendum if he comes
into power—a large section of his fol-
lowers are at loggerheads with him on
this point.
The most important point which he
made, however, was in relation to the
Hurseys in Tasmania. He is ready to
accept the word of the imported Com-
munist leader, Healy, rather than of
these Australians who are being deprived
of their right to work because they refuse
to pay money to support a political party
which they hate and despise. He thinks
that in depriving them of their livelihood,
condoning violence against them, abus-
ing them throughout Australia in the
vilest terms that even a Communist can
lay tongue to, the Watersiders have
treated the two men “generously.”
The Hursey business, in fact, in his
view, is a “time-bomb” —another con-
spiracy like the “conspiracy” of the
Petrov Commission.
What matters most in Dr. Evatt’s view
of the matter, however, is his assertion
that it was “right for Labor industrial
sections to contribute to political Labor,
as one had sprung from the other and
was part of the other.”
These words should surely be inscribed
on the political tombstone of a man
who has always been proclaimed by his
supporters as a great Liberal. They
seem to imply, as everything else which
he said about the Hursey business implied,
that he supports the forcible exaction of
contributions from Liberals to support
the A.L.P. and that he denies the natural
right of persons who do not support
Labor to be unionists on a non-political
basis.
Uniforms and Ambiguity
\ [From Canberra]
The song-and - dance over school -
uniforms and tax-deductions, which
swept overnight across almost half the
continent, has served no purpose except
to illustrate the ambiguity of the taxa-
tion laws and the ignorance of most
people of them.
Even Cabinet Ministers in N.S.W. and
South Australia jumped on the band-
wagon, demanding Federal action to
allow parents of children attending State
schools, as well as those with children
at private schools, to claim a school-
uniform allowance.
Parents-and-citizens’ bodies, school
auxiliaries, headmistresses and a host of
others apparently were quite unaware
that the law governing taxation does not
discriminate one iota on who can
claim an allowance for school-uniforms.
The only prerequisite is that a uni-
form be worn, whether by a public- or
private-school pupil.
The Income Tax Act allows a maxi-
mum of £IOO deduction for amounts
paid for fees, books, fares, uniforms,
etc., in connection with the full-time
education of a child under 21 at a school,
college, or university, or from a tutor.
However, anyone looking for these
specific items in the Act would search in
vain, as the wording of the legislation
mentions only amounts paid “in connec-
tion with the education of a person”
under 21.
If parents of children attending any
State school where the wearing of a
uniform isn’t compulsory consider they
are being hard done by, the remedy is in
their own hands.
They could merely ask the school to
prescribe a uniform, and the added
deduction is theirs.
Skaubryn and Downer
[From Canberra]
The speed with which the first of the
survivors of the ill-fated migrant liner
Skaubryn reached Australia, and the
first-class arrangements made for the


remainder to follow in ships, is a feather-
jn-the-cap of newly-appointed Immigra-
tion Minister A. R. Downer.
The fact that seven days after the
9786-ton Skaubryn was abandoned in
the Indian Ocean blazing from stem to
stern the first of the rescued passengers
arrived in Sydney is a feat which most
Government departments might well
study.
Downer, Oxford-educated and a
p.-0.-w. for three-and-a-half years, is a
son of the late Hon. Sir John Downer,
of Adelaide, one of the early champions
of the Constitution.
Downer, himself a lawyer, has never
tired of upholding the tenets of the
Constitution in the House since he was
first elected for Angas in 1949. From
the beginning he was marked as Minis-
terial material, but his real handicap was
being a South Australian ; there has been
a meagre ration of portfolios to the
smaller States. However, his chance
came when Howard Beale left for
Washington as Ambassador.
His appointment angered several
N.S.W. members of the party who
claimed that Beale should be replaced
by someone from his own State and that
N.S.W. was being poorly treated in
numbers both in Cabinet and the
Ministry anyway.
Although Immigration has always been
regarded as a plum job, with the incum-
bent Minister usually handy for a pat
on the back for successes, it has its
thorny side, as no doubt Downer soon
will realise.
Immigration generally, and the set
intake-target of 115,000 a year in par-
ticular, will be one of the main subjects
in Labor’s campaign at the elections later
in the year. Downer will find himself
on the defensive, but he will be able to
handle it.
One of his first official acts was to
refuse visas to two Chinese Communists
seeking to enter Australia under the
guise of serving the trade-union move-
ment, but really to attend the Easter
Congress of the Australian Communist
party.
Sydney Journalists' Club
Sydney journalists have established new
four-storey club-premises for themselves
in Chalmers Street, alongside Central
Railway Station, and the set-up is attrac-
tive and handy to two of the three large
daily-paper offices. It is handy to trans-
port for almost all newspaper staffs.
The club-building, which also houses
the A.J.A., was opened last Saturday
by the Governor-General, Field-Marshal
Sir William Slim, who made a challeng-
ing and witty speech on the press and
Pressmen that will rank With journalists
Present as one of the best speeches they
have ever heard. Altogether, the new
club-premises had a spirited and enter-
taining opening.
President of the club is Kenneth
Slessor. A bright item on the old Phillip
Street club-premises was contributed to
Copy,” the club’s journal (Vol. 1, No. 1),
by Alexander Macdonald. Among the
guests was Malcolm Muggeridge, for-
merly editor of “Punch,” visiting
Australia for the second time in three
years.
Defence in the Doldrums
Even the most patient friends of the
Defence Department are becoming
exasperated with the continued anaemia
of the Administration and the failure of
the Government to apply a tonic.
There is no doubt that the defence
plan has been dying on its feet. When
a single regular brigade-group main-
tained by a country with nearly ten-
million people can’t keep up its strength
in the interests of security there is some-
thing radically wrong. »
There are, in fact, several things
wrong. In the regular forces, pay and
conditions are still low by comparison
DIVINERS I HAVE
KNOWN—page 19
with those in civil life. The regular soldier
is well apprised of this by comparing his
own conditions with those of civilian
staffs in his own departments.
The Citizen Forces have much the
same type of grievances. At one time
the civilian Army had a life of its own,
territorial and seasonal, with officers and
men alike regarding soldiering as a game
everybody was proud to play, and got
a deal of fun in playing. The team-
spirit was developed as thoroughly as
in Rugby football. The season brought
its Easter camps with all their incidents
and excitements.
Bureaucracy has killed the pride of
service and muted the emulation between
battalions.
Uniforms are the same; camps the
same. No bodies like, say, the glorious
old Moreton Regiment of Queensland
(to name one of many) which appeared
on the landing-day on Gallipoli in the
guise of the Ninth Battalion, could exist
under the present soul-deadening system
on a similar basis of self-support.
The complaints which come from
youngsters who are victims of National
Service and of the system in general
sound unreal, but they obviously have a
basis in reality.
Nobody in high official circles ;seems
to mind. Young officers by the dozen,
both regular and civilian, are being
damped-off by the system and are leaving
the services all too early.
The Government, having had it
forced on it by a committee whose report
it does not care to publish that unifica-
tion of the services is necessary and a
general shake-up in administration
imperative, has chosen as the co-
ordinating chairman of the Chiefs-of-
Staff a late Chief-of-Staff who has
recently been retired after reaching the
age-limit.
What is needed in defence is the
seeking-out of bright and original
young brains who will think in terms
of realities, and a Ministry which will
try the experiment of following their
advice.
Toasting Grammar
Melbourne Church of England
Grammar School, currently celebrating
its centenary with open days at the old
address in South Yarra and at the
junior Grimwade House, a service at St.
Paul’s, an old-boys dinner and official
visits by distinguished guests, was
founded on April 7, 1858, with 77 pupils.
Now there are 1300, and they
have had the good fortune to have
as headmaster Brian William Hone, a
distinguished scholar and an outstanding
headmaster, who made it clear from the
day he was appointed in 1950 that his
unofficial motto was: No Snobbery.
Hone, who went to Prince Alfred
College, Adelaide, and graduated from
Adelaide University on an open bursary
with honors in English, was Rhodes
scholar in 1930 at Oxford, and captained
their cricketers; senior English master
at Marlborough College in 1933 ; and
M.A. at Oxford in 1937. He was head-
master of Sydney’s Cranbrook for 10
years before he was appointed to Mel-
bourne Grammar.
Money had never flowed so freely in
Australia before that time, and the new
headmaster, shocked at the extravagant
claims of some of the young pupils,
wrote (diplomatically) to all the parents
a charming letter that yet succeeded in
chiding the overindulgent. It was in
admirable English and, taking the
school dance as an example, pointed-
out there was no necessity' at all for
young people to be entertained at
elaborate dinners beforehand; if they
were, it might be a good idea for
the boy guests to give a hand with the
washing-up before they left.
As Melbourne Grammar fees have
gone up to their present considerable
level, the emphasis has been laid at the
school on making the expensively
educated scholars realise they have been
very fortunate and should be duly grate-
ful to the people and nation which have
made it possible.
Professor Charles Moorhouse, the
chairman of Grammar’s centenary
executive committee, who is himself a
product of the school, is a protagonist
of more liberal education. He is the
first Professor of Electrical Engineering
at Melbourne University, and. dismayed
at the number of specialists who know
little outside their own field, has in
recent years begun teaching on occasion
the ‘ humanities to senior electrical-
engineering students.
The historian Harry Shaw is pre-
paring a book on the school’s first
century. (Scotch College was the (irst
in the field with First 100 Years 1851-
1951.) Three books titled Liber Mel-
burniensis already have appeared: by
E. E. Morris in 1879, by R. W. E.
Wilmot in 1914, and by J. Beacham
Kiddle in 1936.
The school has produced very many
distinguished Australians, including two
Prime Ministers —S. M. Bruce and
Alfred Deakin—and two peers, Viscount
Bruce and Baron Baillieu.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
TOASTER! With what joy doth the
village organist set about his
duties: ignoring eye-watering ’flu, he
plays at a Wednesday-night service;
ditto Thursday, with the extra enchant-
ment of choir-practice. On Friday morn-
ing he struggles to the church for two
services, back again in the evening for
another. Sunday’s the day: first service
at 6.30 a.m., when all the world and one’s
face is grey ; another at 8 a.m., another
at 11, another at 7.15 p.m. . . . And I
neglected to mention the wedding on
Saturday, at which I was required to
accompany (in the musical sense only) a
female singing “I’ll Walk Beside You”—
highbrow interlude, so to speak.—
“Dorian.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“L.B.*”: Our office-boy, having to put
the date beside an entry, checked on the
book for the day before, then wrote
“March 32.” He wasn’t going to be
April-fooled!
❖ ❖ *
“Call Me Nugget”: Bowlers have
taken to wearing enamel badges which
proclaim their owners’ favorite or pet
names, thus setting aside any excuse
for being formal and not conforming
to the general free-and-easy practice.
Bowls is no longer an old man’s game,
and I could well understand one very
dignified elderly gentleman who refused
to see or hear his “skipper” (his butcher
and a much younger man) when he
loudly called out, “I want you on the
backhand, Horrie, and take plenty of
grass.” The old boy deliberately played
the bowl on his forehand and muttered,
as the bowl came to rest short and
wide of the target, “That’ll teach him
to ‘Horrie’ me.”
* ♦>
“Sevenelms”: Schoolteachers from
N. S. Wales and Tasmania have drawn my
attention to the juvenile adoption in
Victoria of Nipper to signify one of two
brothers at school, irrespective of his
being the younger or the elder. It
originally meant a youthful male-assistant
on a fishmonger’s barrow, and then early
this century became a colloquial term for
children of either sex. In its present
Victorian usage Nipper reverts to its
original sex and definitely does not
embrace Les Girls.
*> ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Jald”: The blockie’s pickers arrived,
a couple of New Aussies, and on his way
to the store he asked if there was any-
thing he could get them. Yes, they
wanted some paprika. “Pepper?” he
asked. “No, paprika.” “White pepper,
is it?” “No,” they said, “paprika.”
“Black pepper?” the blockie asked. They
shook their heads. “Cayenne-pepper?”
he persisted. They nodded, “Yes,
cayenne-pepper, that right.” Down at the
store he asked for cayenne-pepper: “Got
a couple of Hungarians,” he explained.
“Funny,” said the storekeeper, “they
always go for paprika”—and he dumped
a package on the counter. The pickers’
estimation of the blockie is considerably
higher now.
❖ ❖ ❖
“V.M.”: Perth City Library (late
Literary Institute) called tenders for
rebinding 6000 books. The lowest Aus-
tralian quote, £1 a volume, was priced
right out by the best English tender of
3s. lOd. sterling, and 3s. 9d. for lots of
1000. Adding freight and exchange, the
English price equals ss. 6d. Australian
each.
+*4
“Boganite”: The young chap who
walked into our newsagent’s and asked
for two sandwich-loaves must have been
more in need of a good night’s sleep.
»*♦
QVERHEARD at the Gold Coast:
“Joanie, could you lend me some
tooth-paste? I hadn’t time to buy any,
and I wasn’t game to take the family tube
away for the weekend.” Joanie: “Sure.
I brought ours, but I did leave a bit on
everybody’s brush.” —“A.M.8.”
AN OLD TUNE
Shall I cry alas alack
Because a baggage wears a sack,
Or with my old-fashioned tastes
Die because of wasted waists ?
Let some altruist enthuse
Over someone’s pointed shoes,
If they do not point to me
What care I how sharp they be?
Though her hat be droopy felt,
Though she sit upon her belt,
Though she choose the rival-wear,
That triangular affair
From the shoulders to the hem
Ah Euclidian probulem,
If I fail to be involved
What care I how she be solved?
Sack, Trapeze, Chemise or Sheath —
Now I’ve got my new false-teeth
It will cost me for a while
Sixpence every time I smile;
Shall I therefore waste a zack
On a sack that won’t smile back ?
Dress that’s not addressed to me
Might as well be nudity.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


ANOTHER illusion gone! Heard
a St. Patrick’s Day speaker from
Radio Eireann admit that shamrock,
now extremely rare in the wild state and
artificially cultivated, mostly for export
to the U.S.A. and such-like overseas
Irish colonies, is grown from seed
imported from —of all places—Czecho-
slovakia! —“Tom Trout.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“C.A.A.”: In our city court a con-
stable was giving evidence against one
of our newer citizens charged with using
obscene language. He told the Bench that
after using certain words in English the
defendant “had continued in New Aus-
tralian language.” Said the magistrate
blandly: “What’s that?”
»> *> ❖
“80-san”: Much gratifyingness at
bruited news from Dr. Shoji Nishiwaki,
of Japan Society of Fishery Science, that
whale of brand-new up-to-date species has
been discovering, greatly excitableness
among academic anglers following such.
Honorable cetacean possessing unusual
shape of tatts, suggesting mayhap chew
hunks out of homo *sapiens similar to
methods favored by honorable grey-nurse
and other ocean predators of fearsomely
aspects. Also, honorable whale has been
found to possessing strange location of
nerve-ends. Possibly suggest trouble for
honorable Nip fish-catchers per trawler,
when honorable source of sperm-candle,
to soothe jumpy nerves, rushes up right
under small trawler to push hard against
raw nerve-ends possibly located on right
hip or ear with consequent disasterings
for ancient mariners also those not so
ancient on board. Compensation however
for increased marine trepidation in
possible founding of new and profitable
industry in honorable domains of Big
Charlie, manufacturing nerve-tonic for
neurotic whales. Banzai!
* ♦> *>
“Maritime”: The Paloona (B.
12/2/’5B) did not at any time belong to
the old defunct T.S.N. Co. Originally
the Huddart Parker ship Zealandia, 2771
tons, she was principally employed in the
Sydney-Hobart trade ; in 1908 she was
bought by the Union Line and renamed
Paloona, carrying the familiar red funnel
until 1928. 1 made several trips in her,
and remember her as a rather plain craft
without any deck cabins ; when wallow-
ing across the Tasman her portholes
were usually awash. But despite
Paloona’s lack of glamor, she always was
a happy ship. All hands from the skipper
down did their best for the comfort of
passengers.
❖ * *
“0.W.W.”: Asked by an Army n.c.o.
to name his next-of-kin, a Maori recruit
brightly replied: “Shearing contractor,
sir.”
♦> * ❖
“An Chuidh”: Can’t consider the
comment of Foch (B. 19/ 2/ ’5B) to be
other than the prejudice of a trousers-
wearer. To quote J. A. Rennie on that
same subject—“ Medical statistics of
World War I show that most cases of
gas-burns were due to men sitting down
in the darkness on ground saturated with
mustard, and that the Highlanders, with
the numerous thick pleats of their kilts
acting as a protective covering, actually
suffered less from this form of enemy
attack than those of their comrades
“These old staircases seem to be something of the living past."
wearing only ordinary serge.” In cold
so great that brandy froze in the bottles
kilted regiments suffered less frostbite
than men wearing trousers. The real
argument against the kilt is that it takes
seven yards of cloth against four for a
pair of trousers, and nobody has ever
told the War Office that one kilt will
wear-out quite a few pairs of trousers.
, * *
“Sevenelms”: The pen-name “Cocus-
wood” is indeed apt to John Lemmone’s
musical activities (B. 19/3/’58); cocus-
wood has long been the world’s outstand-
ing material for flutes. It is Brya
ebanus, also called American ebony.
Samuel Pepys, when he bought his flute
(or was it a flageolet?), could only afford
one made of turkey-boxwood.
“Narumee”: She alighted from the
dinghy, waded 20yds. or so through the
shallows to the beach, shook out
bunched-up skirts, donned the stilt-heeled
shoes she’d carried, and adjusted the
flowered hat perched atop a faultless hair-
do. Then she teetered-off to the bus-stop,
smoothing-on long, white gloves, while
the dinghy, rowed by a grinning bearded
chap in swimming-trunks, returned to the
ketch anchored a quarter-mile out. He
was just one of those sailing-types with
no sense of parental responsibility ; but
she wasn’t going to miss their kid’s big
moment at the school speech-day!
Ju. A. A
v y v
There is little need for
“L.R.M.” to worry that prepositions
would put Naussies off learning English
(B. 26/ 3/ ’5B). Let him look at the
chapters devoted to prepositions in any
foreign-language grammar-book. Take
German: prepositions can govern any
of three cases, and the nouns or pro-
nouns they govern, together with any
articles or adjectives, must be declined


accordingly. Some prepositions prefer
to follow the noun. Many are double-
barrelled, one part going before the
noun, the other part tagging along at
the end of the sentence, or integrated
with the verb. Half the prepositions
have a will of their own, insisting that
following nouns be in the accusative
case if motion is implied, or the dative
if things are at a standstill. In com-
parison with all this, English must be
like from a log off to fall.
*t* +x+ *t*
“Pip Tok”: A Westralian-goldfields
mother suffered a broken arm and baqk-
injuries when her young son fell 20ft.
from a tree under which she was
sitting scoring during a cricket match.
“Oh, well,” the mother said to a sympa-
thetic ambulance-man, “boys always fall
back on their mothers. That’s what
mothers are for.”
❖ ♦♦♦
“Muskeen”: William John O'Meally
and John Henry Taylor, who received
12 lashes each at Pentridge Goal this
week, were inspected by a medical
officer after the infliction of each stroke.
In the British Army, where punishment
by the lash was not abolished until 1867,
sentences of 600 to 1000 lashes were
frequently served-out by regimental
courts-martial and often a man who had
suffered a part of the punishment was
brought from a hospital when his wounds
were barely healed to receive the
remainder. In 1792 Sergeant Grant was
sentenced to 1000 lashes for enlisting two
drummers of the Coldstream Guards into
the East India Company’s service, and in
1811 a private in the Liverpool militia
received 200 lashes for making a com-
plaint about the quality of bread served
as rations, and afterwards composing a
song on the subject.
*t* +♦♦ *i*
“Doric”: Are we stronger or is the sun
weaker? On looking around at the hat-
less ones, who appear to be in the
majority tq-day, even in the heat of
summer, I recall that, as kids, if we were
even to walk bareheaded across the yard
we were told we’d be sunstruck. The new
mode prevails even in the tropics, where,
so they say, exposure to the sun without
a solar topee could be fatal.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ardoyne”: The paint-man looked
gloomy when I asked how sales were
going ; since TV the do-it-yourself move-
ment had been steadily losing devotees.
Market-research, he said, confirmed that
television was seriously affecting sales of
paint, power-tools, etc. ; buyers of TV-
receivers had little spare cash for brighten-
ing-up their homes, and the complete
concentration of televiewing made it
impossible to carry out a job of work at
the same time. Paint-firms have invested
sizeable amounts in expanding their
plants ; now, no doubt, they will spend
a bit more devising a means of painting
and looking ; we are maybe on the verge
of mirapaint, the paint which reflects the
TV-screen as you slop it on the wall.
>*4- -A- ♦♦♦
V V V
“Ailsey”: Many sub-branches of the
R.S.L. have small committees which visit
ex-servicemen in hospitals, distributing
smokes, toothpaste, shaving - cream,
magazines and other gifts. One group
“H e told me I Was too good for him; then he Went off with that
awful Smith girl.”
of visitors who came across an
ex-Digger dentist in a Sydney hospital
were temporarily stymied when he said
he didn’t smoke, wasn’t in need of
shaving-cream, since he had an electric-
razor, and had plenty of reading-matter.
Recovering their composure, they forced
on him a tube of toothpaste. Wonder if
it was the brand eight out of 10 of the
patient’s colleagues recommend?
❖ *** ❖
“G.W.”: Organ- pedalling (8.
19/3/’58)? One of the assistant-
organists at a Brisbane church, after slip-
ping into the seat, used to remove her
shoes and play in stockinged feet. And
why not? After all, who'd play a key-
board instrument with hands encased in
leather gloves?
*> +> *i*
“Croid”: Swiss people also enjoy eat-
ing kid (B. 19/2/’5B). While dining in
their country we asked the waiter to inter-
pret an item on the menu. “That is
kit,” he said. “Kit?” inquired my wife.
“Kit is young goat,” explained the waiter.
We ordered it and it was delicious. Have
since wondered if it could perhaps really
have been kitten.
THE GREATER CAUSE
“With some people, excessive talking during
sleep may be a reflection of acute anxiety
and fear,” says a psychologist.
When you’re wakened from your
snoozing
By your own loud cachinnation,
You at first find it confusing,
Thinking it some aberration,
Yet you really have no cause to feel
alarm.
Much more likely it reflected,
Not an outlook ever fearful,
Dolorous, depressed, dejected,
But a mind that’s rather cheerful,
That faces up to life without a
qualm.
Some, when apprehension hits ’em,
By hobgoblin fears affrighted.
Find the zest for living quits ’em
As they think their lives are blighted ;
At friends and family they’ll snarl
and snap.
Others sit like hens gone broody,
Into space, bewildered, staring,
Or become morose and moody ;
While yet others start hair-tearing.
The really bad ones in their sleep
will yap.
Unaware of what they natter,
They must spout because they’re
harried.
One thing certain, though: their patter
Will (that is, if they’re married)
Be listened to, and with attention
rapt.
In which case, this seems the set-up
Where sleep-talker, naught concealing,
Talks and talks, and doesn’t let-up:
If some choice stuff he’s revealing,'
Fear will come after, not before,
he’s yapped!
n.s.w.
S. W. K.


AX Sydney’s Circular Quay is the
splendid building of the Maritime
Services Board, with a magnificent bust
of Captain Arthur Phillip and attractive
gardens and lawns in the front; but if
you go round the back you’ll see a dirty,
rusty iron fence with wooden rails, badly
in need of paint. Between this fence and
the building is a mass of weeds, and,
appropriately, a scatter of dead-marines.
—“W.P.T.”
♦> *
“Paddy”: Our corner hotel was
delicensed and the following Sunday the
Salvation Army met alongside it. The
tune of the first hymn was “Drink to me
only with thine eyes.”.
* ❖ *
“Knocker Nel”: “Snip” (B. 19/ 3 / ’5B)
confirms an opinion that the Australian
wharfie has the knack of the most caustic
nicknames. At Port Adelaide we have:
“Graceful Mover”—he shuffles along in
a painful way because of corns, bunions,
etc. “Neck and Breast” — a very thin
individual who works stripped to the
waist exposing every rib, and long neck,
and an outsize Adam’s-apple. The latest
to be tagged is a tally-clerk ; he’s “Book
Mark” —because he is always in the right
place at the pick-up. That ensures he
misses the short-term jobs and is picked-
up for the longer ones.
* * *
“Applex”: In the crowded suburban
train a small schoolboy sprang up and
offered his seat to my sister. She was
much amused at the ensuing mutterings
between the boy and his friend. “She’s
twenty-three.” “She is not. She’s only
twenty-two.” Unable to contain her
curiosity my sister enquired the reason for
their interest in her age. Blushing
furiously, the child who had surrendered
his seat explained, “Well, you see, we’ve
been counting the number of ladies who
say ‘thank you’ since the beginning of the
year. You’re the twenty - third.”
“Twenty - second,” growled his con-
temporary.
❖ * ❖
“Kenyas”: Trying to knock know-
ledge into a class of boys, T was delighted
to notice one of them taking' copious
notes, until I found that he was com-
pleting a fearsome-looking male figure.
My Christian-name appeared in large
letters beneath the masterpiece, and
arrows pointed to different parts of the
anatomy: one shaft aimed at the head
was labelled “bald”; one to the feet
“big”; another to the waist “skinny.”
Appalled to see “falsies,” I was relieved
to find that arrow was directed towards
the teeth. Telling him how wrong he was
(any tusks I possess happen to be my
°wn), and believing that artistic endeavors
should he encouraged, I ordered 30
copies of the portrait to be delivered to
me the following morning.
❖ *3» *
“Flo. N.”: Doctors looked at the
X-ray film and at each other. Small
Wonder the patient had complained of
“This exercise , ladies , if performed daily will soon take off those
leetle annoying extra ounces .”
Moda*t O. dt ipOU4
summing
consultant <
pains when there was a large, old-
fashioned door-key in his middle. Riddle
of how it got there was solved by a very
callow med., who asked, “Where do you
keep your keys, Bill?” Old Bill grinned,
“Where no b ’ll think of lookin’, Doc.
Got a special pocket in me pants.” Rayed
sans pants, Bill’s middle gave the all-
clear. Pains no doubt due to bottles. -
♦*+ ♦*+
“Applex”: “Lubritorium, glaciarium!”
snorted Grandpa, as we sped through the
city. “Why can’t they stick to good old-
fashioned English?” Later in the day I
showed him an advertisement in Lloyd’s
“Evening Post” of July 2, 1772:
Elizabeth Hannever presents her grateful
.respects to the public in general, and her
friends in particular, and begs to inform
them that her new Lactarium, near the
Obelisk in St. George’s Fields, is just
finished, where Ladies and Gentlemen may
be supplied with new milk from the cow;
likewise whey made fresh every day.
*£♦
“Kenyas”: Our schoolgirl-guest was
entertaining us with an account of the
goings-on at her expensive and exclusive
academy in another State. “Everybody’s
got so much money nowadays that the
joint’s simply bursting at the seams. Our
classroom was built to accommodate
twenty-five but they have to crowd forty
into it. When old So-and-so [the mistress]
comes in, the girls have to move their
desks and seats to make an aisle for her
to get through and, once she’s in her
possie, she’s so hemmed-in she’s hardly
got room to turn round to the black-
board. In fact, she’s wedged-in so tight
she can’t get out unless she upsets half
the class. It’s O.K. for us at the back:
gives us a chance to catch-up on our
correspondence with the boy-friends.”
“Metax”: Over 60 pupils at the
Ridgley (Tas.) Area School are learning
Japanese. Headmaster T. W. McCulloch,
a student of the language, has planned a
three-year, course of two periods per
week. The subject is external to any
present prescribed school-course.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Ceg s2 : Split-infinitives in Education
Department circulars (B. 26/2/’5B)
remind me of a famous circular to
branches issued by one of the trading-
banks some years ago. Someone had
decided that the spelling and handwriting
of junior clerks needed improvement.
Nothing wrong with that decision, but
quite a lot wrong with the circular.
“Handwriting” was replaced by “calli-
graphy,” spelt, however, with one “I”
only. The juniors derived much satis-
faction from the production. Hand-
writing and spelling continued as of yore.


POLITICAL POINTS
Khrushchev’s elegant advice to
capitalists “not to poke their noses —or,
as we Russians say, their pigs’ snouts —
into our Socialist garden” is sheer
plagiarism. It must be close on 40
years since Big Bill Thompson, Mayor
of Chicago and Colonel McCormick’s
henchman, in the course of an argument
over the teaching of history in his city’s
schools, announced that “King George
had better keep his dirty snout out of
Chicago.”
• •
The ununiform uniform-deduction
argument has apparently ended in a
win for the taxpayers, but now ununiform
medical expenses threaten their peace of
mind. The story is that because some
doctors have formed themselves into
companies to reduce their tax-bills the
Taxation Department intends to recoup
itself to some extent by refusing to allow
the patients of such doctors to make
deductions for medical expenses. Appar-
ently there’s a technical point involved
—a company can’t be a “registered
medical practitioner.”
A doctor’s tax-manipulations should
not rebound on his patients, and if the
Taxation Commissioner thinks the law
forces him to make them do so, then
the sooner the *law is amended the
better.
• •
Peter Garrison, L.C.P. candidate for
Hawthorn in the Victorian Assembly
elections claims to be the first politician
to use commercial TV in an election-
campaign. He had a 10-second plug on
one of the Melbourne stations on April
2. Garfield Barwick appeared for a much
longer period in a “Meet the Press”
session on a Sydney channel, but
Garrison’s brief flash was different —he
paid for it.
• •
N. S. Wales Labor is expected to post-
pone as long as possible the State
election due early next year, but nomina-
tions for A.L.P. preselection have already
closed and the numbers will go up on
May 17. Most of the sitting members
are unopposed, but a dozen of them will
have to face preselection ballots. These
are G. G. Campbell (Hamilton), C. J.
Earl (Fairfield), J. M. McMahon (Bal-
main), H. C. Mallam (Dulwich Hill), R.
S. Maher (North Sydney), A. T. Powell
(Bankstown), T. V. Ryan (Auburn), J. H.
Robson (Hartley), J. J. Stewart (Kahibah)
and A. Tonge (Canterbury). J. S. Free-
man, who at present represents Black-
town, has decided that the redrawn
boundaries have made that seat very
doubtful for Labor; he’s trying his luck
next-door in the new Merrylands elector-
ate, which has also attracted five other
nominations. W. J. Ferguson is in a
somewhat similar position. His Waverley
seat has been wiped-out, along with
Paddington, and he is one of a field of
five contesting preselection for the new
seat Paddington - Waverley. Former
Cabinet Minister M. O’Sullivan, member
for Paddington, will retire at the end of
the present Parliament. So will J. W.
Crook, member for Cessnock, whose
retirement has brought eight would-be
M.L.A.’s into the field.
J. M. Tully, former N. S. Wales Agent-
General and before that Minister for
Lands and M.L.A. for Goulburn, is try-
ing a comeback to State politics by con-
testing the preselection for Young, from
which F. J. Cahill is retiring. If he gets
the nomination he’ll still have the job
ahead of him ; Young is one of the Labor
seats due for a swing.
D. J. Mahoney, Mayor of Parramatta,
who gave Barwick a good tussle at the
NEW DEAL FOR
MlNlNG—page 20
Federal by-election for Parramatta, is try-
ing his luck for the State seat; he has
two rivals for the nomination.
Next to Cessnock the most sought-
after seats are George’s River and Suther-
land, each with seven starters. In all, 131
nominations have been received for 78
seats.
• •
A.L.P. headquarters in Melbourne
has let it leak-out that the D.L.P. will get
its preferences in the State election ; and,
since it has been announced that Dr.
Evatt will take a vigorous part in the
campaign, the D.L.P. has let it leak-out
that its preferences will go to the
despicable Liberals, or at least the less
despicable Liberals. It all promises a hot
time in old Melbourne town.
• •
When an alderman complained that
rough handling by garbage-collectors
had damaged his dustbin, Botany Muni-
cipal Council agreed to pay for its repair.
The disclosure of this must surely alarm
councils everywhere. If householders
take it as a precedent there won’t be a
solvent council left in Australia.
• •
At the end of June last year the
number of female employees in N. S.
Wales was 104,570 out of a total work-
force of 422,100. Cahill and his Govern-
ment are entitled to use any arguments
they can muster to justify granting equal
pay, but it is ridiculous for them to
claim that the move wouldn’t place
N. S. Wales industry at a disadvantage
in comparison with Victoria and South
Australia.
• •
Queensland Premier Nicklin has given
an undertaking that his State’s transport
laws will be overhauled before the end
of the year. He and Transport Minister
Evans ran into troubled waters at the
Country-party conference in Toowoomba,
where they found about half the agenda
devoted to transport problems. After
the two Ministers had told the confer-
ence that the Government needed time
to develop a comprehensive transport
policy most of the more critical motions
were allowed to rest undiscussed on the
notice-paper.
Exemptions from the provisions of
the Roads Maintenance Act and the
Transport Facilities Act had already been
granted to cream- and milk-carriers and
to farmers using two-ton trucks to carry
their own produce.
• •
The roll-on, roll-off ship which the
Australian National Line plans to build
for the Bass Strait service will be of
about 2700 tons d.w. and will be able to
transport 48 semi-trailers, in addition to
cars and other vehicles. The contract
for building the vessel hasn’t been let
yet; there’ll be keen competition among
Australian shipyards to get the job.
* •
Sydney County Council is trying to
decide who is to get the benefit of the
reduction in electricity charges justified
by last year’s surplus of £620,000. Chair-
man Ernie O’Dea and Labor councillors
want reduced charges for domestic
supply ; non-Labor members and council
officials favor cheaper rates for industrial
users.
• •
“M.F.D.”: The scuffle in the N.S.W.
Assembly between Premier Cahill and the
member for Georges River (D. D. Cross) was a
mild affair compared with a he-man tight which
took place in a small room at the back of
the Speaker’s chair on August 24, 1886. The
principals were the Minister for Works
(W. J. Lyne) and the member for Orange
(W. Clarke). The Assembly was debating the
Wollongong Public School Site Bill, when
Clarke made allegations about .a bribe having
been offered to a member of Lyne’s party.
Lyne told Clarke he was a coward to make
such a charge in the absence of the member;
Clarke beckoned him outside; and when
other members, who followed quickly, reached
the room at the back of the Speaker’s chair
they found the two men slugging it out. John
Shepherd (East Macquarie), in an attempt to
part the combatants, seized Lyne by the
shoulder; but this action was misunderstood
and the member for Monaro (Henry Dawson)
hit him heavily on the mouth, knocking
him to the floor. Others joined-in and the
fight had developed into a free-for-all when
the Sergeant-at-Arms appeared. Order restored,
Shepherd was escorted to the lavatory, where
he bathed his bleeding face.
Next day Mr. Speaker appeared mildly
astonished when member after member rose
and “humbly apologised” to the House for
his part in the previous day’s proceedings. If
honorable members felt bound to do that
over something he knew nothing about, it was
all »right with him, said the Speaker. The
Premier (Sir Patrick Jennings) also professed
ignorance of the affair and said that in the
circumstances the Government did not propose
to do anything about it.


Harold Holt, Minister for Labor, pro-
posing the toast at the opening of Sydney
Journalist Club’s new building, followed
Governor-General Slim and preceded
Dr. Evatt among the speakers. Holt
admitted he was no writer himself, but
said that Dr. Evatt, if reading Sir
William’s Defeat into Victory, should not
take it as a favorable omen for the
coming Federal election ; and warned the
G.-G. that, if reading Evatt’s Rum
Rebellion, not to regard is as being an
account of the activities of the Demo-
cratic Labor party.
• •
Unemployment figures in N. S. Wales
will shortly be reduced by 200. At
least, that’s the number of public
servants who will be needed to administer
the ton-mile road-tax.
• •
Clyde Industries, which disclosed a
£2 million development plan in Victoria
in March, won’t get any labor from the
Plumbers’ Union because the company
recently obtained a “plumber” classifica-
tion in the metal-trades award; and
Bolte says it seems there’s a planned
move by Labor “and its stooges” to
stop Victoria’s development. Of course,
it would suit Cahill.
• •
Although the A.L.P. Federal executive
has ruled that-“any member who agrees
to join with members of the Communist
party and /or any other party opposed to
Labor on any how-to-vote ticket commits
an offence against the party,” Labor
members and Communists have formed
a unity-ticket for the Melbourne water-
side workers’ election. A.L.P. explana-
tion on how-come: Labor wharfies are
standing as unionists, not as A.L.P.
members.
• •
Brisbane municipal elections next
Saturday will be an indicator of the
rise or fall in popularity of the two
Labor factions. Both A.L.P. and Q.L.P.
are running strong teams against the
Citizens’ Municipal Organisation, which
at present controls the council.
• ■ •
[From Westminster]
The Liberal victory at the Torrington by-
election—the first for 29 years —might possibly
start a new political era. It is true that
the district, Devonshire, is a traditional Liberal
stronghold, that the candidate, Mark Bonham
Carter, is a grandson of H. H. Asquith, that
there is a strong mood of antipathy towards
both the other main parties, and that during
the campaign the seemingly detached and
uncaring Government .proposed to cut the
farmers’ subsidy. But the defeat was a heavy
one for the Conservatives, whose majority of
9000 was converted into a minority of 219.
And it can no longer be blandly upheld that
“a vote for the Liberal is a vote wasted.”
So, with such a momentum, a Liberal
revival could happen. Could; but no more
than that. It is unlikely, with a mere seven
seats in Parliament and the set-up largely a
family affair of Asquith descendants and their
collaterals. Remember, too, that 42 years have
passed since the last Liberal Government, and
that only a comparatively few people, all of
them elderly, have any knowledge of Liberalism
a s a practical entity. Most people view the
Party in rather a patronising light as a worthy
old has-been, reduced in circumstances by
political chicanery, and prone to living in the
No one, however, can foresee o, account
for the vagaries of public opinion. The
imagination of the public, weary of party-
political envy and backbiting, dissatisfied with
the Conservaties and distrustful of the
Socialists, has been fired by the adventitious
resurgence of the Liberals at Rochdale and
Torrington. The underdog, always good for
sympathetic attention and encouragement, has
fought gamely.
9
t- u „ -p. „
a "special” meeting of the ACTU
execnhve to footed
action by the A.L.P. and the trade-
unions. Later Albert Monk said the
„ j
executive was prepared to attend an
exoloratorv conference to discuss current
exploratory conference to discuss current
polmca l and industrial prob ems and
! . lncl '’, or . c ose j c . a t ......i
ft™. ftf mdustr,al and P° l,,ical
r wings. . .
Evatt claimed he had won positive
assistance, ’ but it is quite clear the
A.C.T.U. is hastening as slowly as
possible, since its members are still smart-
ing from unjust criticism by the Federal
Labor caucus ; all they have agreed to is
a meeting to discuss possibilities.
• •
Taxpayers' as well as Canberra resi-
dents should be concerned at the pro-
longed skirmishing which has been going
on Ibout the amalgamation or not of thS
Australian National University (a
“graduates’ university”) and the Canberra
University College, which is affiliated
with Melbourne Uni., and caters for
undergraduates in a limited number of
courses. The Murray Report suggested
discussions on closer association, perhaps
affiliation.
Menzies said he didn’t think establish-
ment of two separate universities in
Canberra could be lightly undertaken,
and that he thought some constitution
could be devised which would give the
college all the independence of operation
that both bodies wanted, while at the same
time making it possible for college
students to receive National University
de S ree ?- Bo ‘ h bodies *° P'ft"
separate universities, with residential
accommodation and full university status
f or t l ie college. He added that he had
an ,nrnverl nf a crienr-e familtv at ihe
pprovea of a science taculty at tn
college, but he saw many difficulties
about the Other proposals,
# m
fFrom Canberra]
The manner in which Indonesia has
received six ships of 3100 tons each and
ft- ships of 1050 tons front the Soviet
Umon 15 '-nsumg. The point hat .s
r e “> v “>B attention at the poht.cal leve
is the readiness with which Russia was
~ . ... m „ ,
able to come t 0 hght Wlth 10 vessels
j t when the Indonesian Government
J wanted them original jdea o{ U)e Jndo .
nesian Administration was said to be the
replacement of inadequate inter-insular
shipping tonnage caused by the with-
drawal of the Dutch K.P.M. line from
Indonesia. The Indonesians tried Japan,
then Germany, but on both occasions
received a knock-back. It was then that
they turned to Russia, which sent a
special shipping delegation to probe the
situation and to make recommendations
to Moscow. The ships will be incor-
P°ftft din the ft?™®! 8 ” merch ? n ' f fleet '
ftft Is eX ? e fft d J housands of ex ‘
employees ft will be reuni-
Ployed. The K P.M. line would never
ft ave been t withdrawn or its employees
ft o™'out 0 ™'out of work had it not been for
the Indonesian Government s insistence
on itsi wi hdrawal asi part of the policy
° ve , r , th f. str “«B le fw*' ot
Dutch New Gulnea m Indonesia,
• •
Britain’s nuclear-power projects are
running ahead of schedule. Three years
ago the goal was 2000 megawatts by
1965. Last month Sir John Cockcroft,
chairman of the U.K. Atomic Energy
Authority for Scientific Research told
the Institution of Civil Engineers that
the programme now provided for an
output of 6000 megawatts by 1966.
" Whaat , bootter AGAIN, Ma? Bean't there any margarine?”


There's cr TAA
flight to suit YOU!
Whenever you travel, wherever you travel, there’s always a
TAA VISCOUNT flight to suit you. For your convenience,
TAA operates daily round-the-clock Viscount flights, between
all states. From as far north as Cairns, to Hobart in the south,
right across the nation to Perth in the west, you can fly TAA Viscount.
5X
More people fly TAA-
Reservations: TAA Booking Offices in all States
the friendly way
or any authorised Travel Agent.
NPVBIf
PERSONAL ITEMS
Philip Felton, still an enthusiast but
an old hand at his profession at 28,
has taken-up his appointment as Superin-
tendent of Aborigines’ Welfare in Vic-
toria with the determination to get Black
Brother health, housing, education and
employment, as well as the active interest
of the old New Australians. He was
formerly a welfare-officer of the N.S.W.
Aborigines Board for eight years and
stationed at Dubbo, with a district cover-
ing 70,000 square-miles and including
most of N.S.W.’s 4000 aborigines. In
Victoria he will have the care of 1350,
and, with the board, the spending of
£50,000 on them in his first year ; the
first year, too, that Victoria has spent as
much on the natives per head as other
States. Felton, who is a B.A. of Sydney
University, rates the black intelligence, if
encouraged, as probably the equal of the
white ; which, in some strata, would not
be ranking it over-high.
• •
Looking over General Motors, Aus-
tralian Iron and Steel, B.H.P. and other
big shows with which his company has
accounts is E. G. (Dave) Davidson,
manager of the technical-services branch
of British Petroleum, Ltd., London, and
he will visit most States from the Mel-
bourne headquarters of B.P. (Australia),
Ltd. He was here five years ago on a
first visit. After his Australian tour he
goes on to the U.S. He arrived in Mel-
bourne via New Zealand where he
claims, although he arrived without a
fin of evidence, to have caught 30 trout
in Lake Taupo in two days.
• •
“Queenslander”:
Mr. Justice Sir Roslyn Philp, senior puisne
judge of the Supreme Court of Queensland,
has an old-standing family association with
The Bulletin ; his father, having been once
private-secretary to Sir George Grey and editor
of the “Tung Wah Times,” Sydney’s Chinese
newspaper in the days of Quong Tart, made
a sub-editorship at The Bulletin a half-way
house to the commercial editorship of the
Brisbane “Courier.” Philp the elder was a large
jovial litterateur, who wrote some first-class
SIR ROSLYN PHILP
topical jingle (“The Old Dog and Duck”) and
one outstanding Australian lyric.
His son is also large, but not so large
and only judicially jovial. He was born in
Brisbane in 1895, went to Brisbane Grammar
School, served with the 12th Field Artillery
Brigade in the A.I.F. in World War I, studied
law on his return and was called to the Bar
in 1924. It was ironic that the son of a father
who wrote some of the most scorching com-
minations in prose and verse against the Ryan-
Theodore Government should have made his
name in the courts defending E. G. Theodore
in the Mungana affair. He was elevated to
the Bench at 44, three months before World
War II broke out. During that war he was
chairman of the Aliens Tribunal. He is noted
for his careful preparation of judgments and
his exacting, if good-humored, conduct of
causes on the Bench, and for his insistence
on the independence of the Bench.
One of the three commissioners of the
Petrov Commission, he was voted by the
audience as the most entertaining of the trio,
always able to tide-over a dull hour with a
touch of humor or human sympathy. He
received a K.B.E. in the New Year’s honors
this year. In private life he is an ardent
follower of the theatre —in his salad days he
was a pale and interesting performer on the
boards himself. Without prejudice it is
admitted by colleagues that he plays golf, but
no formal judgment has ever been given. He
has had three sons —his wife is a descendant
of Lieutenant Meredith, an officer of the
Marines of the First Fleet. Two served in
the R.A.A.F., and his namesake, Ross, was
shot-down over Denmark in 1944. The
youngest, Julian, follows in his father’s foot-
steps and is at the Bar in Brisbane.
• •
Arnold Lewis Eason, deputy general-
manager of the E., S. and A. Bank, left
Sydney by air last week for North
America and England. He’ll be away for
six months, looking into banking
affairs, mainly at head-office in London.
• •
Eric Rabbish Denney, of Perth, packs
a mort of administrative experience with
him to London, where he will put-in five
years as secretary of the office of the
Westralian Agent-General. He’s worked
in all branches of the Westralian Lands
Department, and was in charge of the
inspection branch of the department
before his recent appointment.
• •
“Myall”: Councillor J. A. Costello,
chairman of the Rosenthal Shire Council,
on the Darling Downs (Q), must surely
hold the record for long service on any
local authority. A grazier of Karara,
near Warwick, he W2s elected to the
council in 1907, and has been in office
ever- since. During' this period he has
only been absent from 14 meetings. He
was made chairman in 1922 and has filled
that position for 36 years.


A Dutch scientist, Dr. George Freder-
ick Mees, who served in the British
Army during World War 11, is now
curator of the Perth Musuem. An
authority on birds and fish, he has
accompanied scientific expeditions to the
West Indies and Northern Australia.
Before receiving the Perth appointment
he was curator of the Royal Museum of
Natural History .at Leyden (Holland).
His assistant-curator (first to bold this
appointment) is Westralian-born, 28-year-
old Ray George, who has hitherto been
research officer of the C.5.1.R.0.’s Divi-
sion of Fisheries and Oceanography. A
science graduate of the Westralian Uni-
versity, with honors in zoology, he has
specialised in crayfish research. In
leisure hours he’s a skilled aqualung-
and skin-diver, and has represented the
State at water-polo and hockey.
• c
One of the best-known men in Sydney
is a Canadian —Norman Roy McMorran,
Canadian-Pacific Railways traffic-manager
for Australia, sketched here by Dubois.
Roy has been an urbane part of the
Sydney scene for 35 years last month.
Apart from an active interest in all traffic
N. R. McMORRAN
from Australia to North America (which
might use his company’s railways), he’s
directly concerned with shipping and air-
traffic—Canadian-Pacific Railways is the
parent-company of both shipping- and
air-lines—and he personally crosses the
Pacific a couple of times a year.
McMorran joined C.P.R. in 1913, served
in France in War I (first with the
Canadian Corps of Cavalry ; later with
the 11th Brigade of the 4th Canadian
Division) and in Sydney has acquired a
sort of quasi-official status among his
countrymen: this writer has met a
number of Canadians —not V.I.P.s, but
young people working here —who have
said that they’d have had a lonely
time in Sydney but for the McMorrans.
He plays golf, belongs to a bowling-club
(but doesn't play bowls), and is a familiar,
friendly, sandy presence at those
numerous and curious gatherings where
big-business and the third-estate meet
amicably over cocktails for reasons about
which no one seems very clear.
• •
In Sydney last week churchmen of all
denominations, and some distinguished
laymen, attended a farewell function in
honor of the Rev. S. W. McKibbin, of
the Methodist Church, on the occasion
of his retirement from the active ministry.
He is well known for his work for the
poor, sick, aged and homeless.
• •
Now 65, Dr. E. J. T. Thompson has
deckled to end a long association with
the W.A. Mental
Health Department.
Born at Elgin, Scot-
land, he started his
medical course at
Glasgow University,
interrupted it to join
the Highland Light
Infantry in War I,
in which he won
the M.C'., graduated
after the war and
joined the staff of
of the Claremont
Mental Hospital in
1923. He has been
Inspector - General
since 1940. Between
the wars he served
with 13th Field
Ambulance of the
C.M.Fi, and during
World War II
he held several
senior administative
appointments. He
was a full colonel
on retirement. His
departmental admi-
nistration has been
marked by the intro-
duction of modern
methods of treat-
ment, and skill in
handling the con-
siderable financial
problems that arose
after the recent war.
He has battled hard
for an up-to-date
mental hospital, which is now in the
blueprint stage.
• •
Lord Carrington, whose family-name
is Carington, is one of the most likeable
lords this interviewer has met. Admit-
tedly, he hasn’t met very many ; but the
former Guards officer, former Parliament-
ary Secretary (Ministry of Agriculture
LORD CARRINGTON
and Fisheries ; Ministry of Defence) and
gentleman-farmer who is now U.K. High
Commissioner in Australia is also one of
the most pleasant people to interview
one has struck in a long time. Slight in
stature, quick in thought and speech,
with a face that changes dramatically
when he smiles —in repose it gives a
glimpse of the serious man of affairs, and
also of the man who won an M.C. in
Holland. Smiling, he seems a much more
lighthearted character—he pleasantly
helped the conversation along, and
seemed perfectly willing to talk about
any one of a half-dozen subjects.
Finally the talk settled-down to farming,
about which Lord Carrington knows
quite a bit. His farm of 400 acres grows
two tons of wheat to the acre, also
barley, oats, pigs, poultry, and a com-
mercial herd of cattle, which are hand-
fed six months of the year, but not
stalled. He uses Hereford bulls on Short-
horn cows, fattens and sells all the
progeny.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, Ethel Turner, writer (Seven Little
Australians ) and widow of the late Judge
Curlewis and mother of the present Judge
Curlewis, Adrian.
In Sydney, at 79, John P. Monro, author
of the Bowls Encyclopeeclia and a leader in
Victorian bowling organisations.
At Launceston (Tas.), at 62, A. E.
(“Freddie’’) Odgers, well-known Australian
Rules league-footballer in Adelaide in the early
1920’5. He was rover for Sturt (1919-23), play-
ing Sturt's 1919 premiership side. He was a
brilliant drop-kicker.
At Auckland (N.Z.), at 72, W. E. Barnard,
C.8.E., first Labor Speaker when the Savage
Government came to power in 1936. A solicitor
in Tauranga, he was Mayor of that town for
a time.


ABORIGINALITIES
SARAH’S 101 convictions for drunken-
ness (B. 12/2/’5B) falls a long way
short of Shack’s 350 convictions in Kal-
goorlie (W.A.). There was a wreath from
the police at Shack’s funeral, too. Many
of Shack’s arrests were made by his
horse, which headed for the police-yard
as soon as the driver collapsed on the
floor of the cart —the horse knew it was
assured of food and accommodation
during Shack’s incarceration.
Shack’s runner-up, Paddy, totted-up
roughly 275 drunk-and-disorderlies. An
exasperated magistrate once gave him
24 hours to leave town. As he stepped
from the dock his quite-audible remark
even brought a smile from the S.M.:
“What does he think I am? A bloody
snail?”
Paddy was drunk and performing in
the sister-city of Boulder. A constable
put him on the tram and told him to get
going. An alert lawman at the other
end chased him back to Boulder on the
same tram. Back at Boulder, the first
constable greeted him with, “Didn’t I
tell you to get to hell out of here?”
Paddy roared, “What do you coppers
think a man is? A bloody albatross?
I’m not allowed to land anywhere.”,
Muldoon.
* * * *
“O’Johnno”: When I first knew Cressy
(Vic:), a bit over 40 years ago,- it was
being developed as a big new railway-
centre of the Western District, and pro-
mised to grow into an important town.
Expectations fizzled, however, and today
one sees the fence round the station gone
and the railway-line banked-up so that
motorists' can drive right onto the plat-
form and buy a ticket without moving
from the seat. Its unusual feature as
a “drive-in” station can now be added
to the town’s pride in being the second
place in Victoria to have a licensed pub
—the Frenchman’s Inn was the scene of
some romantic 2fhd adventurous episodes
in the early days.
» * * *
“A.8.C.”: Pigs might fly, and so might
I, but has anyone ever seen a kangaroo
swim? If so, how, when and where?
* * * #
“Orang Puteh”: A one-time Austra-
lian jockey who achieved success in
Malaya, both as jockey and later as
starter, was celebrated in his latter
capacity for the warnings he gave to
jockeys assembled at the barrier.
Possessed of only a sketchy education, he
persisted in using expressions which he.
thought would impress the jockeys. One
hoop complained to the chief stripe that
the starter regularly told him to “key-
vive,” and that he didn’t know what it
meant. The c.s. was also at a loss and
appealed on behalf of the jockey to the
starter for an explanation. “Don’t he
know any French?” asked the starter in
return. “It means, ‘Keep your bloody
eyes open! ’ ”
* * * *
“Cocuswood”: Bushfire cussedness (B.
19/3/’58)? Fanned by a 100 m.p.h.
hurricane, a blaze travelling across the
tops of very tall eucalypts jumped the
house in an arc of aurora magnitude (in
which yard I stood, awestruck, gazing
sputnik-wise), and set the orchard ablaze,
300yds. from the timbered country.
Within the arc the heat curled sheets of
galvanised-iron and disintegrated three
concrete tanks. Have paid my premium
for umpteen years, but the assessor
claimed no liability for wind- damage!
“7T.Y.”: One of the rummiest bush-
fires occurred when I was on Headingly
Station (W.Q.). There had been a suc-
cession of extra-good years, and the
Mitchell grass was in endless abundance.
On a midsummer day a gale-force sou’-
easter coincided with a carelessly-dropped
match in the tinder-dry grass, and away
it went. But the wind didn’t give the
flanks of that blaze a chance to spread.
It ran in a straight line, clean-cut as a
road, until the Templeton River blocked
the lead. Not a beater was laid on it.
It died without doing any real damage.
Distance: about six miles.
“Wommadoo”: Collaroy Station, near
Merriwa (N.S.W.), indirectly gave its
name to the Sydney suburb. For many
years after the station was first settled,
in 1825, all traffic between there and
Sydney went by ship along the coast and
up the Hunter, which then had no silta-
tion problem. Several of the Hunter
River ships were named after the stations
for which they did so much carrying,
and one of these, the Collaroy, being
wrecked a few miles up the coast from
Sydney, gave its name to the beach where
its bones lay, thence to the seaside-resort
" We must study their literature and culture before We can
understand our white brothers”
THE HERMIT
The hermit lived beside the sea,
None knew the pattern of his dreams.
The needle of the sun had drawn
Upon his face a hundred seams.
His beard lay matted on his chest
As ragged as a gannet’s nest.
In tree-dark hut 'that to the hill
Clung as a limpet to a rock
The hermit lived. His red-rimmed eyes
Surveyed the sun, his timeless clock.
Wind shaped him to a crooked tree ;
The headland stooped and so did he.
The mottled seaweed of his hands
Culled driftwood when the tide was low.
From makeshift shack to fireplace
He shuffled crablike to and fro.
His green cord line coiled at his feet
Like writing on the rocky crag.
Above the opal of the sea,
He fished, a black and ancient shag.
Come sun, come rain, come biting wind,
Sea holds him in its hungry spell.
The hermit lives content. His world
Lies round him like an oyster-shell.
n.s.w.
JOAN TIMMS.


JUST A HOLE IN THE GROUND


which grew there. Collaroy Station
employed convict labor in the early days,
and some stone buildings of that period
still stand, including the conyicts’
quarters. Their sleeping-room is a low-
roofed attic reached via a trapdoor and
ladder —which was presumably removed
at night—the tiny windows being just
above floor-level. Large areas from the
stations provided soldier-settlements after
each of the world wars, but it is to be
hoped that room will always be found,
however reduced the acreage, for the
preservation of its “bits of history.”
• * * *
“Manamoi”: Years ago some shrewd
breeder of sheep or cattle noted that the
bulky frames of his prize stock showed-
up to better advantage in photographs if
the subjects’ legs were hidden in grass or
straw. Now a stud-animal’s legs are as
seldom photographed as were those of
the proverbial Victorian miss. I’ve even
seen a text-book illustration showing
names of the various parts of a sheep’s
anatomy, in which the arrows labelled
“knee,” “fetlock,” “pasterns” and “hoof”
pointed coyly to patches of thick grass.
* * * *
“A.D.G.”: “J.J.A.” (B. 5/3/’5B) must
have been very unobservant or a careless
gardener if he didn’t see some of his
“five acres of sunflowers” following the
sun. Fully blown sunflowers do not turn,
because the stem is then too stiff, but
before that stage the buds do turn to a
remarkable extent. In a garden with a
clear horizon to the east but rather
blocked to the west by the house, I
selected one sunflower, about 40in. high,
with no side-branches and one unopened
bud. For 12 days the position of the
bud was noted about five times each day,
from dawn to 10 p.m. I still have the
"Which Way did the gangster with the violin go ?”
"Yes, I'll come if I can get a sitter."
record, which shows that the bud was
always set by 10 p.m. to meet the rising
sun. It followed the Sun roughly both
in azimuth and elevation, even on days
of heavy cloud and rain. After dark it
returned in various ways to the eastward
position. At the end of the 12 days the
bud was opening, the stem getting stiff,
and the blossom remained fixed.
* * * *
“Wandana”: Holy Trinity Church,
Bacchus Marsh (Vic.), which com-
memorated its centenary some little time
back, carries some unusual features in its
early records. Departing from usual
custom, it celebrated two foundation-
stone layings instead of one, after it was
found that the original stone had been
planted on the wrong land—a mistake
which cost the authorities over £2OO.
First white man to occupy a block in
the churchyard was the donor of the
ground, Captain William Henry Bacchus,
who died in 1849. Among those who have
officiated as lay-preacher in the church’s
early days was “Captain Moonlite,” the
bushranger, whose signature, Andrew
George Scott, also appears in the registers
of St. Stephen’s Church, Ballarat.
* * * *
“Demin”: When my old-type Yale
lock finally went on the blink I called at
the local store and asked for one to
replace it. The lad behind the counter
looked at it, scratched his head, and said,
“Well, missus, I don’t rightly know.
Y’see, the ’ole might have to be largened,
or agin, it might have to be smallened.
Y’d better try an’ git a locksmith.”
* * * #
“Malurus”: Noting that “a platy-
pussery is to be made in a plane to take
platypusses to New York,” “S. M.
Herald’s” venerable gossiper “Granny”
leaves the implication that the term was
coined in America. In fact, its creator
was Australia’s chief platypus man, the
late Harry Burrell, who had a happy flair
for coining words to suit his purposes.
He built (and christened) a platypusary
—not “platypussery”—at his home in the
Sydney suburb of Kensington, and it’s
illustrated in his notable book, The
Platypus, published in 1927.
* * * *
“Manamoi”: I take issue with
“M.G.S.” over his simile (B. 12/3/’5B)
“lonely, useless and deserted as a billa-
bong in the Never Never.” Lonely? With
all the teeming wild-life? Deserted?
Never, so long as it holds water. Useless?
Tell that to a cattle-owner, or a traveller
whose tongue has begun to swell. It’s the
one place in the Never Never that least
deserves those adjectives.
*»* * _
“Keyovadee”: My big white Muscovy
drake is nuts. No longer does he proudly
parade the duckyard, hissing and trumpet-
ing, demonstrating his masculine vigor.
No sir, it’s ducklings ahoy for him!
For two weeks he’s been sitting tight on
14 eggs. Outside, a bewildered white
duck wanders forlornly, vainly seeking
the eggs that have vanished.


RINGER was browned-off about a
grazier he called The Gentleman
Farmer. “The cow wrote offerin’ me a
stand in his shed, sent me a wire to ask
if I was cornin’, rang to find-out when,
and charged the lot against me tally.
Then when the shed cut-out he said, ‘l’ll
reserve you a position now for next year,
Ringer, if you’re interested. It’ll save me
the trouble and expense of getting in
touch with you.’ ” —“Ringer.”
* * * *
“Wandana”: A couple of years ago
electricians wiring beneath Melbourne’s
Shrine discovered that beautiful stalac-
tites had formed in the foundations,
caused by water seeping through the lime
in the concrete. Recent investigation
shows the curious hanging formations to
be steadily lengthening.
* # * *
“Liewah”: Market news from our
local paper: “Reconditioned potatoes
were passed-in at the Roma St. markets
today.” Now, is a reconditioned murphy
one that has been thrown back to grow,
injected with hormones, or simply given
a good old-fashioned scrubbing?
DIVINERS I HAVE KNOWN
DECIDING to dig a well, I enlisted the
services of several local water-
diviners, making sure that no two were
present at the same time.
Each appeared with his forked green
stick and paraded the paddock in the
orthodox manner, the stick faithfully
pointing to the heavens when he was
“off the stream,” and diving earthwards
when he “got on to it,” sometimes with
a ferocity that threatened to remove the
skin from his fingers and destroy the
stick itself. They all located “a real good
stream” close to a big blue-gum, and I
realised too late that I should have
removed the rather prominent peg driven
in by the first to mark his chosen site.
Two of the diviners offered to tell me
the depth at which I would find the
water. Their methods differed slightly.
One cut notches in his stick and the other
filled his mouth with pebbles. Under
these conditions the sticks rested limp
and dormant in their owners’ hands until,
after the cutting of more notches and
spitting-out of some pebbles respectively,
they suddenly plunged earthwards, and
their manipulators triumphantly
announced that the stream flowed at a
depth, in each case, of about 40ft. This
was a very convenient figure, as it gave
them a reasonable period of grace.
I dug and dynamited my way down,
confidently timbering as I went, until I
gave it up as a bad job at 55ft., the shale
becoming harder and drier all the way. I
can t claim that my well has always been
bone-dry, as on three occasions the nearby
river overflowed its banks and filled it to
the surface. As the floodwaters subsided
from around the well the water trapped
there ran out through the bottom as
through a sieve.
On several occasions over the years
since then other experts have volunteered
advice on my initial errors. Two worthy
of note were both ministers of religion.
The first deprecated the folly of some
people in using forked sticks. He said
fencing-wire was the only satisfactory
material, and I agreed with him—to the
extent that it was more durable anyway.
His method was different from that of
the other diviners. Bending a short length
of plain wire into a right-angle, he
clenched one end in a fist and proceeded
to trot round the paddock, the free end
swinging to right or left, guiding him in-
fallibly along the .meandering course of
the hidden stream. When he got off the
stream the wire spun round in a circle
like a propeller. Just as I was beginning
“Always a white tie with tails , old man."
to wonder how the elderly gentleman’s
heart would stand the strain of the jog-
trot, he suddenly propped and pointed to
the ground beneath his feet, proclaiming
that he stood over the junction of two
excellent streams and that I had missed
it with my well by only 20ft.
He then ascertained the depth by bend-
ing the wire into an oval shape, grasping
one end in each hand, together with about
a dozen pebbles in one hand. The wire
remained calm and docile while he
opened his fist, telling me to remove two
pebbles, now two more, and two more,
until it suddenly took the expected dive
earthwards. The man of the cloth
counted the stones remaining in his hand
and announced that the water was at
50ft., though if there was no water, gold
would be found instead. A crumbling
peg still marks the spot beneath which
the treasure lies.
Next on the scene was another
minister, and his technique was novel and
startling. Tall and gaunt, he was dressed
in white—white shirt, with long sleeves,
long white trousers, white sandshoes, his
pants (held up by a piece of string. All
buttons were removed from his clothes,
and he explained that the presence of any
metallic substance on his person was fatal
to success, though I noticed that some of
his teeth were gold-filled. When all was
ready he closed his eyes, went into a kind
of trance, and stumbled round the
paddock, slowly raising and lowering his
arms, and looking very like an overgrown
white ibis flapping its wings. For good
measure he divined two sites far from
the others, beneath which there should be
found lots of good water, and I led him
gently from the scene.
My last visiting expert was a pro-
fessional well-sinker. He would not let
me follow him, but slunk furtively round
the place and later announced that he
could show me a good site for a well for
a consideration of three-guineas, or that
he would sink it himself on a no-water-
no-pay basis. He could not say how
much water there was, however, and left
with my assurance that he had given me
much food for thought.
Far be it from me to ridicule the
intricacies of water-divining, as my
impressions of the science were, to say
the least, rather confused. And my well
is not completely without value. I find
it an excellent receptacle for dead cats
and fowls, noxious weeds and, every five
years or so, a couple of thousand gallons
of discarded cattle-dip.
W. E. MULHOLLAND.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
A NEW DEAL FOR MINING
Suspension of oii-driiiing
in New Guinea has been
foreshadowed by Senator
Spooner, Minister for National
Development; and W. G.
Walkley, of the Ampol group,
has spoken of the great diffi-
culty of all Australian oil-
exploration activity being
carried on in present financial
circumstances and under exist-
ing taxation policy.
Both Australasian Petroleum,
in New Guinea, and Wapet, in
W.A., have done a splendid job,
and it is disappointing indeed
that after the expenditure of
£3O million in New Guinea and
£l4 million in W.A. —the
greater part of the money
being put-up by overseas oil-
companies that the energies,
enterprise and skills of both
organisations have not yet
been rewarded by the striking
of oil in commercial quantities.
It is particularly disappointing
to Australia as a nation. But
Wapet intends to press on with
its prospecting and drilling
regardless of taxation inequities.
In New Guinea and in W.A.
the oil-prospecting companies
have gone about their opera-
tions in a thoroughly business-
like way. They have been
expeditious in their work and
matter-of-fact in their report-
ing to shareholders.
Sharemarket Frenzy
But the story has been
different away from the opera-
tions of the companies them-
selves. The Australian public
seized the occasion of the oil-
strike in W.A. to embark on a
frenzy of stockmarket
gambling, during which Ampol
Exploration 2s. 6d. shares went
to over £7 and Oil Search
shares to above £2.
Before a limited oil -
pool was found at Rough
Range there had been a
fairly lively interest in pro-
specting for scheelite (wolfram)
in Australia, the profits of
King Island Scheelite being
the attractive example. No
discovery was able to parallel
the King Island mine, however,
and prices for wolfram have
now receded.
After oil in restricted
quantities was struck at Rough
Range late in 1953, not only
was there an oil-fever on the
Stock Exchanges; there was
soon a uranium-fever as well.
In 1954 and 1955 came the
deluge of new flotations,
tumbling over each other in
their haste to get listed on the
Stock Exchanges, where the
gambling excitement was almost
fantastic. It was a wry
“I’m— er —reorganising the staff."
joke that a company only
needed to have the word
“oil” in its title in order to
establish a frenzied market-
following. It was almost the
same with uranium.
Commenting on the position
in July, 1954 about seven
months after the Rough Range
“strike” The Bulletin
remarked:
From the sliaremarket point of
view the great danger is that the
longer the boom continues, the
more deeply will gamblers be com-
mitted. Before the oil-show at
Rough Range late last year [1953]
most people were gambling with
pin-money. It is different now.
Some businessmen are becoming
•seriously involved. The uranium
gamble has added to the oil-
bubble, and moneymaking on the
Stock Exchanges in the past few
months has been all too easy.
While no sharebroker or financial
adviser can say with certainty that
any particular mine will not
eventually make big profits, all will
probably say that a large propor-
tion of the companies will never
pay a dividend. Someone, some
day, will be left holding the bag
in a number of companies which
have had their glamor-hour on
’Change.
It went on to explain the
dangers that underlay a boom
of such extraordinary dimen-
sions as then existed:
A boom of the present nature, to
be maintained, must go on expand-
ing. It cannot stand still. To
continue in existence it will there-
for© require fresh discoveries and
periodic stimulation.
To an extent, the present boom
in oil and uranium shares is an
inverted pyramid with its apex
balanced on the pinpoint of the
oil-showings at Rough Range in
W.A. Without the W.A. oil-shows
the whole present mining-share
boom would have been a compara-
tively feeble thing. To the extent
that the W.A. venture develops
favorably, the longer will the boom
be sustained, possibly assisted by
other discoveries. But even in the
event of flow-oil being struck in
payable quantities here and there,
uranium-deposits of world class
being discovered, the longwinded,
costly and unspectacular job of
developing and marketing the
mineral product will weary the
patience of the gamblers.
The more people get sucked into
the oil-uranium boom, the greater
will be the crash one pf these days.
There will be a dry hole where oil
was confidently expected; there
will be a petering-out or chopping-
off of a “glamor” uranium-deposit
that promised well on the surface.
The ensuing market setback will
produce selling by those who are
overcommitted. And the more
forced sales there are the more
there will have to be. That is the
almost inevitable mathematical-
plus-psychological formula which
operates in all major Stock
Exchange gambles. After the crash
the producers and good “prospects”
will remain, but for a while even
they will be adversely affected in
the market by the shock caused by
the fall of the no-hopers.
The real benefit to Australia
from oil and uranium will probably
arrive long after the sliaremarket
boom has fizzled out.
Encouraging Real Mining
Well, the boom has now
fizzled-out; and the moral
of all this is that there
needs to be a new approach
to mineral development
in Australia. It is not
enough for the Federal Govern-
ment to allow speculators in
certain classes of mining-
companies to deduct the
amount of their calls from their
income-tax returns. In a way,
this is encouragement from the
wrong end ; it tends to add fuel
to the gambling-fever. What
is wanted more, as W. G.
Walkley rightly pointed-out in
his remarks before leaving for
overseas, is a taxation allowance
on development (in his par-
ticular case, drilling for oil).
In 1956 S. B. Dickinson, then
Director of Mines in S.A.,
expressed the view that what is
most needed to develop new
mining properties in Australia
quickly is a more enlightened
taxation policy in respect of a
new mine’s first few years of
production.
New mines, he pointed-
out, are expensive and take
several years to bring into
production. Returns of any
magnitude are rarely possible
within five years of their initial
discovery. Much finance is
required, and the value
of a mineral resource, once
developed, is depleted by
mining-proceeds. These are
features peculiar to the mining
industry, and call for special
taxation consideration.
Mr. Dickinson contended
that a tax-free period of three
years in the initial production
for any new mine was the main
reason for the amazing develop-
ment in Canadian mining in
recent years. In the decade
ended in 1955, $ 10,000-million
had been invested in the
Canadian mining industry. Mr.
Dickinson said that similar
tax-concessions in this country
could lead to a similar spec-
tacular growth in Australian
mining. And he pointed-out
that in the past profits from
mining have been directly and
indirectly responsible for estab-
lishing many of Australia’s


m
n *
m
imm
St
q9 645«^
M
V*
4 '
*n»
ii.
ZI
JJSZS-S2
33
«**>*
eu»
34
<n>»
Qio
Pay right to the penny
Yes! Pay all your accounts right to the penny with a minimum
of inconvenience.
Use an A.N.Z. Cheque Account and avoid tiring travel, time-
wasting queues and the risk of keeping large sums of money
in the house. Properly drawn cheques provide a permanent
record of payment most valuable if receipts are mislaid.
Besides this aid to modern living you can enjoy the added
convenience of keeping your A.N.Z. Savings Bank account at
the same office. You and every member of your family will
like this efficient, speedy service.
Our free booklet '‘Bank Accounts for Everyone” details the wide
range of A.N.Z. Bank services. Ask for your copy at any branch
of A.N.Z. Bank today.
A-N-Z
,»» * i
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED —Cheque Accounts
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED Savings Accounts
ANZ4B7. 10SRP
basic manufacturing industries
__ S uch as steelworks, metal-
working industries, chemicals
an d fertilisers.
Canada’s Method
In Canada, metals and
minerals account for about a
quarter of Canada’s exports.
The Dominion’s income-tax
laws give new mines a tax-free
period of three years on initial
production. After that they
allow all proper expenses of
operation to be deducted from
mine-revenue, including the
writing-off of the plant and all
pre-production development
expenditure. From the result-
ing profit-figure a further
deduction of a third is allowed
for depletion before net taxable
income is arrived at. (In the
case of goldmines, the deple-
tion-rate is 40 p.c. of profits, or
$4 an ounce produced, which-
ever is more favorable to the
producer.) Tax-rates are 20
p.c. of the first $20,000, and 47
p.c. of the excess of net taxable
income.
A good mine, said Mr.
Dickinson, will normally
become a sound source of
income to shareholders
and a sound source of
revenue to the Government. If
it is a poor one, it will probably
close-down in less than three
years. Because of its recogni-
tion of capital risks and the
exhaustible nature of ore-
deposits in its tax laws, Canada
was having its mineral resources
developed at a pace nowhere
equalled in the world. And he
suggested that Canada’s mineral
industry had been the most
important single factor in the
country’s economic growth
over the previous 10 years, but
that this growth was only partly
due to its mineral potential—
rather to its extremely favorable
economic climate for invest-
ment in mines, including the
taxation policy.
The Slump in Metals
The market for mining
shares is now, of course, very
dead. This notwithstanding
that after interest in oil and
uranium started to wane, rutile-
mining experienced an un-
precedented boost. The collapse
in prices for rutile has been
mainly responsible for the fall
in titanium-share prices ; there
are many coastal deposits of
black sand that would be
remunerative if prices
recovered.
The whole overseas metal-
market is now at a low level,
and the Broken Hill silver-lead
mines, as well as Mt. Isa, Ml.
Lyell and Mt. Morgan, have
all been seriously affected.
The mining industry, in Aus-
tralia and elsewhere, is there-
fore in comparative disfavor
among investors.
But nothing is surer than that
the demand for metals, over the
years, will increase, that later
on prices for basic metals will
recover, and that mining will
go on profitably. And it is
earnestly to be hoped that the
search for oil in Australia will
go along with it.
A chastened period like the
present is probably the best
time for Governments to take
heed of the problems of the
mining industry, and to give it
that encouragement which is
necessary to real development.
The froth and bubble of the
sharemarket boom is over, and
in its rise and fall the boom
has done much damage to
legitimate Australian mining.
But it is still absolutely
essential for us to press on
methodically and in a level-
headed manner with the
development of our mineral
resources.
Comalco and Blair Athol
SHAREHOLDERS in Blair
Athol Opencut Collieries,
Ltd., have agreed in Brisbane
to give a five-year option over
their coal-deposits to Common-
wealth Aluminium Corpora-
tion, Ltd., which was formed
by Consolidated Zinc to develop
bauxite deposits at Weipa, on
Cape York Peninsula. (There
is a tie-up also with British
Aluminium.)
If Comalco exercises its
option, after testing, it will
pay Blair Athol Opencut
£140,000 and Blair Athol Coal
and Timber Co., Ltd., £200,000
Comalco is also interested in
the possibilities of harnessing
hydroelectricity in New Guinea
and transmitting it to Cape
York by powerline.
Blair Athol Opencut Colleries
has a paid-up capital of £97,500
in 10s. shares, and paid a six-
penny dividend in 1957, after
nothing in the two preceding
years.
Blair Athol Coal and Timber
has a paid capital of £125,000
in 500,000 shares of ss. each.
It has paid sixpenny dividends
over the past two years.
TV Corporation
"CULLY-PAID shares in Tele-
vision Corporation, Ltd.
(Sydney), are selling at around
Bs. 6d., which is Is. 6d. below
par.
There isn’t much, if any-
thing, being made out of TV
yet. But to those prepared to
face a long wait the shares may
pay-off well in the end.
Capital is £950,000 in
1,900,000 fully-paid 10s. shares.
Much of the capital is held by
large newspaper and radio
interests, but the public put up
£400,000 in 10s. shares in
1955.
The Movie Merger
SHAREHOLDERS in
Spencer’s Pictures, Ltd.,
Greater J. D. Williams Amuse-
ment Co., Ltd., Amalgamated
Pictures, Ltd., and Wests, Ltd.,
have agreed (to the extent of
more than 90 p.c. of their
shareholdings) to merge into


INVEST US'
FOR SECURITY
o
*lll#
lIII#
!
•1111
•lII#
• ill#
•II
en
•nil
•1111
• •(
•II
•lII*
Q
•»
mi*
•i«i«
♦i*i*
•III!
*!•!•
•1111
•!•!•
•Hl*
lIII*
»I*I«
> ».♦
•Ill*
•I*l*
lIII*
•lII*
9 *
•II
ll*
lIII*
•1111
iiiii
t't *
iiiii
: PER ANNUM
FOR 6 YEARS
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
Other terms are availble from 3 months to 20 years. See I.A.C.’s Prospectus
for full details.
Australia's Leading Hire Purchase Organisation,
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
GUARANTEES YOU: Fixed quarterly income free of exchange.
Principal paid in full on maturity.
Principal paid in full before maturity in
certain circumstances (See Prospectus).
Copies of the Prospectus are available from Members of Stock Exchanges, the 703
Branches of the AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED and..
I N DUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
C ORP ORATION LIMITE D
(Established 28 years)
PERTH
CANBERRA
Underwriting Brokers :
lan Potter & Co.,
Melbourne, Canberra & Sydney.
£
D 47
one holding-co., Amalgamated
Holdings, Ltd. (which is a new
name for Spencer’s).
Details of the proposed
merger were given in B.
26/2/’5B.
Amalgamated Holdings will
accept further conversions from
those who have not yet accepted
the offer, provided they come
forward within the next week.
The Present Outlook
'T'HE Australian and New
Zealand Bank, Ltd., in its
“Quarterly Survey,” gives a
succinct summary of the
economic position in Aus-
tralia today, It remarks upon
the effect of lower export
prices, but adds that there are
compensatory forces which can
be availed of if timed suitably
and planned correctly.
“The effects of deteriora-
tion in the balance-of-
payments have been reflected
in internal prosperity, directly
through the reduction of
incomes of rural producers,
and indirectly through the loss
of overseas currency resources
causing a deterioration in the
available liquid resources of
the banking-system,” says the
A.N.Z. “The check to boom-
levels of activity is also shown
in some of the statistics of
factory - production. The
A.N.Z. index of volume of
factory-output has been rising
generally in recent years ; the
1956-57 year showing an
index of 119, compared with
114 in 1955-56 and 100 in
1953-54. But some of the
production-items contributing
to total volume have not dis-
played a consistent rise in the
latest monthly figures
“As for the future, the Aus-
tralian economy has so much
scope for development that
any signs of slackening
economic activity will be
accepted as an indication that
inflationary pressures are eas-
ing and that some labor and
material resources may be
available to meet the require-
ments of new phases of expan-
sion. Both the private-enter-
prise and Government sectors
are ready to take up any slack,”
says the survey.
“The-outstanding feature of
the Australian economy today
is that internal activity
receives so much stimulation
from works of national
development. Fluctuations in
export markets are thus not of
such significance as in earlier
periods. The speed of recent
national development and the
volume of work remaining to be
done in Australia to round-off
earlier phases of expansion,
while continuing to push for-
ward with new ones, is at the
root of the contrast between
the United Kingdom, the
United States and the Aus-
tralian capital-markets today.”
The survey points-out that
“there are ample financial
resources available in the
banking-system to enable such
work to be expanded. Pro-
gressive releases of these funds,
combined with an extension of
public-works activity, could
rapidly absorb unused
resources of men and materials,
without running the risk of
price - rises which would
increase internal costs. By this
means, internal activity could
be maintained at a high level
while in no way impairing
Australia’s capacity to compete
in world markets for her
major exports.




Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO NORMAN HARRY KEITH HIGGINS
late of 10 Besant Street Merrylands.—
TAKE NOTICE that DAPHNE JUNE
HIGGINS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 685 of 1958 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards and is
asking for the exercise of the Court’s
discretion under 5.19(2) (A) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Sydney by the 26th June 1958
and obtain a copy of the petition with-
out charge from E. H. TEBBUTT &
SONS, Solicitors, of 28 Martin Place,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO WALTER HENRY 7 HENDERSON
late of Lakemba. —TAKE NOTICE that
DORIS IRENE MAY HENDERSON has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1875 of
1954 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 23rd day of June 1958
and obtain a copy of the petition with-
out charge from GREGG & MILNE,
Solicitors, of 4 OaGlereagh Street,
Sydney-,—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO VLADIMIR ULBRICII late of the
Springfield Inn, Springfield Street Kings
Cross.—TAKE NOTICE that ELLA
MARGARET ULBRICH has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2326 of 1957
on the grounds that you during three
years and upwards have been an
habitual drunkard and have habitually
been guilty of cruelty towards the
Petitioner If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the Thirteenth day of June
1958 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from WILLIAM
PATTERSON k CO., Solicitors, of 56
Hunter Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATER
'MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“Bells Are Ringing”
Scenery was getting stuck
with embarrassing regularity ;
Miss Shani Wallis was finding
herself in all sorts of emotional
tangles and singing about them
in a voice as blonde and pretty
as her hair; Bruce Trent, a
handsome young man who
is trying to write plays,
was falling in love with
Miss Wallis in the pretence
of seeking inspiration;
Sandor, the record-seller, was
displaying a strong resemblance
to the “pianist” Liberace and
conducting an s.-p. business,
all in the same breath; Inspector
Barnes, in rootmg-out the
s.-p.’s, finds himself in a
realistically constructed tele-
phone-box (cardboard), which,
at the crucial moment, slides
off stage very nearly into the
orchestral pit—-in short, Bells
had started Ringing at the
Princess Theatre, Melbourne.
In fact, things were happen-
ing pretty regularly in this new,
bubbling, somewhat long-
winded musical confection put
on for the delight of Melbourne
by Garnet H. Carroll. A
more-or-less complete inventory
is included herewith.
Around about 20 songs, some
six of which have enough tune
to warrant inclusion in the
repertoire of the milko, the
rest not unpleasant when heard
coming from the mouths of
Mr. Trent and Miss Wallis;
22 scene-changes with accom-
panying spectacles and back-
stage noises ; an incredible
dentist who varies tooth-jerking
with writing hit - songs ;
choruses with a plenitude of
spirit and dancers with a pleni-
tude of leg; a Hallelujah
chorus which would make
Handel shudder ; and each and
every other customary in-
gredient of the American
musical, plus a revolving set,
unique in Australian theatrical
history, whose cantankerous-
ness seems to have been respon-
sible for most of the first-night
troubles. However, Mr.
Producer Stanley Willis-Croft
has given public assurance that
these blemishes on an other-
wise immaculate production will
disappear as the show pro-
gresses.
Miss Shani Wallis is the
show’s mainstay, backstay
forestay and dolphin-striker.
Her pleasant voice, gaiety,
stage-manner and response to
an appreciative audience more
than compensated for the un-
easiness backstage. Bruce
Trent, her mild, assured partner,
if anything overplayed himself
in a honeyed but character-full
performance. Verdon William's
music was as often, good as it
was unimaginative in treatment,
while the choreographies of
Rex Reid were cleverly con-
trived, if a trifle overlong for
their aesthetic content.
But again, it must be un-
hesitatingly asserted that it was
Miss Wallis’s night-out in the
role of a switchgirl at a tele-
phone-answering service who
gets into all sorts of mix-ups
because she cannot resist pass-
ing on titbits of information to
her gossiping clients.
♦♦♦ ❖ *>
“The Shifting Heart”
No one likes being left out
on a limb entirely, but it does
seem that I am the only
Queenslander who didn’t like
“The Shifting Heart.” In the
face of almost total public
approval, may I then offer a
brief defence of my attitude?
First, production: Despite
a good press-seat several of the
key actors were inaudible. If
the author has seen fit to
express himself in words and
not mime, then it is the pro-
ducer’s duty to his public to
make sure that the script is
received. When two of these
key characters are speaking in
very broken Italian, the
problem of audibility becomes
even more urgent. Despite
this, the acting of Tom Farley
and Lyndall Barbour was
good, if at no time they com-
manded the stage in the way
that Madge Ryan did. Miss
Ryan, of course, was luckier
—hers was the best-written role
in the play, a person, not a
wavering between person and
propaganda, or a mere mouth-
piece for an attitude.
Shaw springs to mind.
Although his plays may have
been limelighted because of
their social import, those that
remain in current repertory do
so in spite of that, and because
they are fine examples of the
playwright’s t art. Is “The
Shifting Heart” to be saved
by the same bell? I fear not.
So much in it is dated already.
Because they have been
overdone by “realists” in the
last few years, there are few
things more boring than on-
stage pregnancy, few articles
less funny than lavatory
pedestals. The inevitability of
events implied by pregnancy
is not the inevitability of good
theatre ; and one had hoped
that Graham Greene’s “Living
Room,” six years ago, had
made the last use of the
lavatory joke on stage. Yet
now, after some fun about
clogging-up the neighbor's
works, we receive as a
Christmas present a new
pedestal, all done-up in tissue-
paper! These days, even in
student processions, t h*e
pedestal is carried shoulder-
high only when the comic
imagination fails in other
directions.
And, as these threadbare
“jests” were an excrescence on
the play, the weakness in
another important character,
Clarrie, the Australian husband
of the Italian gjrl, derived from
a similar source. Frank Waters
performed well, but much of
the “Aussie” humor given to
him seemed to be tacked on to
his character, and not to well
from the inner springs of such
a person, which is fundamental
to the Australian type. Shak-
speare’s advice to the clowns
may also be adapted to their
creators. Beynon has thought-
up some funny lines, but so
often they remain merely funny
lines, at times immobilising the
very character he has moored
them to.
The set, representing three
Collingwood backyards, was a
brilliant piece of designing, but
once again one wonders
whether the playwright is not
turning back the clock in two
aspects of his art. It is a long
time since landscape prizes were
first won by “slum-pieces,” a
long time since “Street Car,”
and even in those fields, the
winners were not simply repre-
sentational in the painstaking
way that is required here. And
once the set is built it
tyrannises the play into its
terms. For example, certain
scenes in the lives of these
people would not naturally
have occurred, even in the
backyard; they are then
required to give the occasional
explanation as to why they
haven’t gone inside. All the
while, the true explanation, the
very fixed set, stares the audi-
ence in the face.
A worse feature is perhaps
beyond the limits of dramatic
criticism, but because the
author has made no secret of
the social purpose of his play,
and because it is being received
by many as a kind of docu-
mentary, its effect upon society
cannot be ignored. It is aimed
against our intolerance of
migrants. But is this intoler-
ance, the mainspring of
Beynon’s action, really real ?
An individual instance (and all
works of art are such) relies for
its ultimate power on its sense
of the universal to be perceived
within it. Isn’t the universal
here practically non-existent?
No doubt —and one hopes for
the cast’s sake —the play will
do well overseas and it may be
filmed with even more fanfare
and success than “The Doll,”
for so many movies are
deficient in just this sense of
universality—yet it seems to
me to be a bad thing both for
art and for Australia in that
its success depends upon


HE HAS A
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BA KRK RE
No Pads —
No Springs
The nbo - bar-
kers: acts like
a hand wh'-n
placed flat upon
the orifice. You will at once, without
efiort .and in al) in o vein elite, control
your hernia with com tort and
security. It cannot be displaced by
violent movement and has proved
completely successful by all who
have tried it.
W'rtte today for Free Literature
Harrpro |li«trihulinn Company
Dept. 3k, 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
THE HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY
Sydney's Most
Distinguished Hotel
Newly modernised and decorated
throughout, The Hotel Metropole is
fast becoming Sydney’s smartest and
most fashionable hotel. Right in the
heart of the city, the Hotel
Metropole offers you the comfort
and convenience of Australia’s
largest and friendliest hotel. Over
400 rooms all with telephones and
hot and cold water (85 with private
bathroom), luxurious ultra-modern
suites, 6 magnificent entertaining
rooms, swift, efficient room service
and a really fine dining room and
cellar.
Yes, at the Hotel Metropole you’ll
receive truly wonderful hospitality
and service in the traditional
relaxed and friendly atmosphere
that makes the Hotel Metropole
THE place to stay in Sydney.
THE HOTEL METROPOLE
Australia’s Most
Friendly Hotel
B 0522. Box 1601, G.P.O.
its perpetuating a spurious
universal.
Val Vallis.
*** ❖ *>
“The Fire On the Snow”
I have many reservations —
old-fashioned ones, perhaps —
about broadcast plays, but
when I first heard Douglas
Stewart’s “The Fire on the
Snow,” a verse-play written
expressly for radio, it was
obvious that here, in the play
and the medium, was as ideal
a matching as one might hope
for.
I listened to it —as I usually
do with the radio —with the
lights out, and the words of
Scott, Wilson, Oates, Bowers
and Evans seemed like the
voices of spirits in a waste-
land, while the voice of the
announcer, or chorus, was like
a wind from space blowing
over them. In art, of course,
enough is perfect and, as a
broadcast verse-play, “The
Fire on the Snow” is fully
and precisely sufficient. Every-
thing is there in the poetic
vision of the heroic spirit
searching, almost consciously,
for death; that sees so
accurately that death is the
final triumph, the final satis-
faction of heroes. And, indeed,
to that extent the characters
and their story are almost
incidental —like illustrations to
point-up a thought or poetic
theme.
What I am getting at is that
the play was written to be
heard—read, too, but that’s
another matter —and, in its
present form, it seems super-
fluous to add anything to it.
What material or histrionic
device could, for instance,
improve on the sound and the
sense of
The world is spun ,
Between two giant hands of
ice,
or
The image of Oates appearing
again at the doorway,
Shaggy with snow and the plea
for life in his eyes.
With those thoughts in mind
I went with rather mixed feel-
ings to see Sydney Universjjy
Dramatic Society’s stage-
presentation of the play. They
handled it very intelligently
and quite effectively, with the
chorus in the shadows to the
left of the stage and with the
five main characters in what
amounted to little more than
a series of tableaux behind a
filmy drop, their intention —
a good one—apparently being
to avoid as far as possible any
physical and visual distractions
from the spirit of the play.
Much as I admired their
efforts, however, and their
appreciation of the lines they
were speaking particularly
Storry Walton’s Scott, Douglas
Bladon’s Oates and Janet
Uhr’s narrator or chorus —
they did nothing to shake my
predeliction for the broadcast
presentation of the play. In
my personal view, of course,
Miss Uhr suffered from the
fact that Judith Anderson was
the last actress I heard in that
role, and I did feel that the
men generally needed more
variations of voice between
them to distinguish the
characters.
Still, as I’ve already noted,
it was an intelligent and effec-
tive production, and certainly
a highly interesting experiment.
P. D.
♦js-
Brahms’s “Requiem”
The metaphysical line which
Brahms was to pursure through-
out his early masterpiece is
faithfully reflected in the open-
ing chorus: “Blessed are they
that mourn.” The composer
had selected the texts himself
from Luther’s Bible ; and the
burden of his music, like that
of the words, is consolation
for the living ; the Office of
the Dead has no part in it.
This chorus was sung with
better spirit than balance in the
performance at Sydney Town
Hall by the Philharmonic
Society choir. But the great
funeral march which followed,
to the words, “Behold, all flesh
is as grass,” found the choir in
much better and more con-
fident shape, with the sopranos
particularly ebyllient and
accurate.
Neil Easton brought a voice
of rich quality, expressiveness
and declamatory power to the
entry lines of his opening solo,
“Lord make me to know the
manner of my days.” In the
antiphonal use of soloist and
chorus the mounting intensity
of feeling inherent in the music
was well found and sustained,
culminating in the fugue, “But
the righteous souls are in the
hands of God.”
The chorus, however, was at
its most impressive in the
beautiful interlude, “How lovely
are thy dwellings,” in which
control in the gentler phases
was tight. Tenderness and
poignancy were caught admir-
ably by soprano Nita Maugham
in “Ye who now sorrow”—an
example of soaring lyricism
based on broad lines which
suggest more Brahms the
romanticist than Brahms the
devotional ; and the spirit of
the German folksong hovers
over it, too.
With the baritone’s “I show
unto you a mystery” the great
theme of the work, the triumph
of the spirit over death, was
launched. With the trombone’s
announcement of the “trumpet
of death” the fiddles made their
strong outburst and the chorus
leaped full-throated into the
paean of triumph. Here con-
ductor Gerald Williams suc-
ceeded in conjuring an adequate
degree of exultation from his
forces.
In this, Brahms’s biggest
single work, the instrument is
always subservient to the
human voice, a fact to which
the conductor gave keen recog-
nition. There were times,
though, when the polyphonic
texture was too loosely woven.
Paul Edgar at the organ did
much to. add impressive
dramatic weight to the per-
formance.
Also performed were
Haydn’s last symphony the
104th and Brahms’s
“Academic Festival” Overture ;
in the former some of the
gracefulness was captured but
too many of the subtleties lost;
the latter was given with lusty
virility.
Artbursts
Hiroshima Drawings
It is in a way unfortunate
that Hiroshima is the subject-
matter of the collection of
huge and small Japanese draw-
ings at present on show at the
National Gallery in Melbourne.
The incidental horror is apt to
stand between the observer and
feeling the really magnificent
quality of the drawing.
It is probably the finest
exhibition of drawings that has
ever been shown in Melbourne.
The strangest thing about it is
that none of these pictures by
Tri Maruki and his wife,
Toshiko Akamatsu, show the
slightest trace of Japanese
influence, and comparisons with
Hokusai and Hiroshige are as
out of place as comparisons
with Goya.
No doubt the two Japanese
artists set out to do with
Hiroshima what Goya did with
his merciless reflections on the
society of his time, but the
results are very different. One
naked figure of a woman stand-
ing amongst a heap of maimed
and distorted corpses is drawn
with all the sensual delight
in her beauty of a Rubens or
a Degas. Many of the draw-
ings have the sculptural quality
of a Rodin.
Although all the drawings are
done on rice-paper with Indian
ink, and color is introduced
in the Chinese manner, the
approach is entirely European
and in the great tradition which
runs through Titian, da Vinci,
Michelangelo and Rembrandt
and in modern times has
cropped-up only in occasional


CLOSING SATURDAY!
THF
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
5V>% LOAN
Government - Guaranteed
For 5, 10 or 20 Years!
Now you can add very substantially to the earning power of
your savings—do you realise that per cent, is almost
double savings bank interest? What’s more, you will be
making sure of your money.
Half-yearly interest payments and full repayment of principal
at maturily are unconditionally guaranteed by the N.S.W.
Government.
Tou can also invest Trust Funds as well as your own money
—the Loan is an Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W.,
Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania.
As it is the Board’s final issue this financial year, the Loan
cannot be overlooked by anyone who wants to start making
more money at once.
INVEST TODAY AT ANY OFFICE OF THE—
© Commonwealth Trading Bank ;
© Australian and New Zealand
Bank Limited ;
© Bank of New South Wales ;
© Commercial Banking Company
of Australia Limited ;
Through a Stockbroker ;
Or at the Sydney Water Board Offices.
'■'.JK 1 *
Underwritten by Ernest L. Davis & Co., 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
If any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
individuals like Degas and
Turner.
There are eight panels, each
6ft.-by-25ft., and a number of
small drawings, and an estimate
of the figures represented would
probably run into thousands.
The two artists must have
started on their project almost
immediately after the bomb fell
on Hiroshima. They completed
it 15 years later.
M. G. S.
Films
“Raintree Country”
Interest is reasonably well
held in this long drama, set
in the American Civil War
period, and concerning a
haughty young Southern
woman who is gradually over-
taken by congenital insanity
The bulk of the work falls on
Elizabeth Taylor, who is highly
decorative, and quite con-
vincing in her gradually-cloud-
ing mind and temperamental
outbursts. Beside her, Mont-
gomery Clift, as the young
husband, is a colorless figure.
There is some rich characteri-
sation from Nigel Patrick, as a
philosophic schoolmaster who
can quote the classical poets
and the times of professional
runners with equal authority,
and who becomes a war-artist
by necessity when an enraged
husband sets him .on his travels
at the business end of a blunder-
bus. Another good character-
role is taken by Lee Marvin, as
a rumbustious sportsman and
reckless soldier.
Edward Dymtryck's direc-
tion puts the dramatic accents
in the right places, works the
alternating settings of North
and South to give clarity and
logic to events, and generally
keeps things on the move.
Mf.-G.-M.’s new Camera 65
process does very well with
magnificent Indiana and
Georgia landscapes.
At Sydney Liberty.
❖ ❖ ❖
“A Girl in Black”
This, at Melbourne Savoy,
is a highly overrated version
of “girl-meets-boy” which
ends in appalling tragedy. The
girl in the case is played with
pathetic grace and sensibility by
a young Greek actress, Ellie
Lambetti. She is apparently
new to the film and has so far
avoided its' pretensions and
affectations.
As the story unfolds we
learn that the Greek girl fears
contact with men because of
an earlier experience where a
young man made false love to
her ugly sister so as to be near
Ellie’s beauty. The ugly sister
suicides, and the young man
continues coarsely to seek
Ellie’s favors. A writer comes
along and overcomes Ellie’s
inhibitions and they plan for
a rendezvous in a ruined castle.
Ellie gets there by foot and
the young writer rows across
in a boat; he sees a group of
small children and takes them
aboard for the trip, but
unbeknown to him Ellie’s
former unsuccessful lover has
pulled the cork from the boat
and it gradually fills with
water.
The boat sinks, many of the
children drown and the writer
is accused of murder by their
wailing mothers. But the
unsuccessful lover comes
forward and confesses, and the
writer is left free to carry on
with —or perhaps marry—
Ellie.
There is little deep thought
behind the plot. All that dif-
ferentiates the film from the
most commonplace American
effort is the photography of
the lovely dEgean- harbor and
a certain refreshing under-
statement of the human
conflict. Beyond that “A Girl
in Black” fails as the work of
art it is claimed to be. Nothing
significant is said of the
relationship between Ellie and
the writer other than that it is
a purely physical one —in
short, a complex subject-
matter has been given definite
but surface treatment, and is
dished-up with superb photo-
graphy and technical direction.
❖ . ♦♦♦ *>
“Doctor at Large”
Despite a few vintage gags,
this third film of the Richard
Gordon “Doctor” books essays
fairly well in chuckles.
The familiar characters are
taken by the same people as
inhabited the earlier films:
Dirk Bogarde, as Dr. Sparrow ;
Donald Sinden, as his irre-
pressible running-mate at St.
Swithin’s Hospital; John
Robertson Justice, as the fear-
some consulting-surgeon Sir
Lancelot; and Muriel Pavlov,
as the med. student.
It isn’t so much a plot as
a series of more-or-less con-
nected episodes, all of them
fully exploiting the embarrass-
ing situations likely to befall
an inexperienced young medico.
It all adds up to bright and
light-hearted nonsense.
At Sydney State.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Repco, Ltd.
THE growth of capital following the
surrender of noteholders’ options in
December, 1956, gives no indication of
affecting the div.-paying capacity of the
massive and rapidly growing Repco con-
federation, despite a slight setback in
aggregate net profit for the year ended
June 30, 1957. And while - expressing
some anxiety regarding future tariff-
protection and the continuance of the
“punitive” 30 p.c. sales-tax impost on
private vehicles, the board showed the
measure of its confidence in the co.’s
immediate and long-term prospects by
capitalising (last October) share-premiums
totalling £1,566,493 in the ratio of one-
for-two. A drop in the div.-rate from
15 p.c. to 10 p.c., however, leaves effective
yield unaltered for the time being.
Group net earnings for the year were
£522,300 (previous term £530,633), repre-
senting a decline of about 1.6 p.c. This
figure was arrived at after setting aside
£364,547 (up £34,460) for taxation —a
rather generous provision on the profit
as shown —and charging £176,271 (up
£31,201) for depreciation (also a largish
increase in proportion to balance-sheet
movements):
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To
June Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves*
30, £ £ £ £
12 J p.c.
1950 . . 188,518 108,994 79,524 777,303
Share premiums, £187,682 .. 964,985
15 p.c.
1951 .. 262,672 155,255 107,417 1,072,402
Share premiums, £298,736 .. 1,371,138
15 p.c.
1952 ~ 302,239 218,237 84,002 1,455,140
Share premiums, £225,129 .. ' 1,680,269
15 p.c.
1953 .. 241,123 262,203 1,659,189
Premiums-employee shares, £6220.. 1,665,409
Profit sale assets, £6422 .. .. 1,671,831
Tax overprovided, £31,951 .. 1,703,782
15 p.c.
7954 .. 288,264 263,974 24,290 1,728,072
Profit sale assets, £1987 .. .. 1,730,059
Tax overprovided, £5511' .. .. 1,735,570
Long-service provision, £37,146 .. 1,698,424
Premiums employee shares,
£143,294 1,841,718
15 p.c.
1955 . . 482,520 280,743 201,777 2,043,495
Profit sale assets, £4211 .. 2,047,706
Tax overprovided, £426 .. .. 2,048,132
Share premiums, £285,000 .. 2,333,132
15 p.c.
1956 .. 530,633 307,501 223,132 2,556,264
Profit sale assets, £9635 . . . . 2,565,899
Tax overprovided, £llO9 .. .. 2,567,008
Share premiums, £532,741.. .. 3,099,749
15 p.c.
19 a7 .. 522,300 403,086 119,214 3,218,963
* Subject to intangibles, £465,385 at
June 30, 1957.
Share-premiums (£532,741) from the
10s. payable on each option exercised,
together with undistributed profits and
odds and ends, brought reserves up bv
£662,699.
Naturally, earnings as a percentage of
ord. capital (as increased) fell sharply
last * year, and rates for the past five
years have been 13.8 p.c. (1953), 16.4
25.2, 25.9, 19.4 p.c. (1957).
The operating subsidiaries and affili-
ates of the group are:
Russell Manufacturing Co. Pty. (Mel-
bourne and Sydney); Repco Bearing Co.
Pty. (Launceston); A. T. Richardson and
Sons Pty. (Melbourne). This is the auto-
motive engine-parts sub-group manufac-
turing pistons, rings, valves, connecting-
rods and camshaft and main bearings,
ring-gears, etc. Investment during the
term was £112,208.
Patous Brake Replacements Pty. (Mel-
bourne) ; Repco Universal Joints Pty.
(Melbourne) ; Hardy Spicer (Aust.) Pty.
(Melbourne) ; Specialised Engineering Co.
Pty.. . (Melbourne). These offshoots
specialise in brake- and clutch-assemblies,
universals, propeller-shafts, etc., and last
year the expansion of productive capacity
for these components entailed a further
outlay of £87,561.
Warren and Brown Pty. (Melbourne)
and its division, Repco Automotive Equip-
ment Co.; Replex Pty. (Melbourne). Manu-
facturers mainly of automotive recondi-
tioning-equipment, such as line-boring
machines, grinding - machines, wheel -
balancing and -aligning equipment,
battery-chargers, etc.; expenditure in this
sphere on fixed assets was £17,917 for the
year.
Replacement Parts Pty. (branches
throughout Victoria) ; Replacement Parts
(7 as.) Pty. (branches throughout Tas-
mania) ; Auto Grinding Co. Pty. (Mel-
bourne). A very effective comliination,
handling the engineering and distributing
side; £47,428 was spent on fixed assets
during the year.
In addition to these, Breneo Pty. (Mel-
bourne) manufactures jigs, fixtures,
cutting-tools, etc., for general industry,
and Repco Research Pty., a small co.,
engages, in research and development.
Associated cos. are Kirkstall-Repco
Pty.; Payen, Byrne and Blackford Pty.;
Super Seals Pty.; Associated Engineering-
(N.Z.), Ltd. These cos. cover the manu-
facture of seals, gaskets, axles and
steering-linkages.
Effective results have been obtained
from the rationalisation of production of
pistons, rings and cylinder-sleeves between
Sydney and Melbourne plants. As part of
this programme, the manufacturing and
trading activities of Brico (Australia)
Pty. were taken-over by Russell Manu-
facturing Co., while improvements in the
Launceston subsidiary resulted in the
transfer to that co. of the assets less
freehold of the now non-operating P. J.
Bearings Pty, (Newcastle).
A comparatively recent development,
Repco Ltd., was floated in Victoria in
1937, when three established concerns
owned by R. G. Russell were taken-over
to form the nucleus of the present-day
colossus. Consideration for this deal was
200,000 f.-p. £1 shares, and paid capital
was also supplemented by the placement
of 100,000 shares with the public.
Share-issues, takeovers and mergers
followed in swift succession, until by
June, 1952, paid capital had reached
£1,585,166. January, 1953, saw the issue
of 1,066,500 £1 6 p.c. convertible notes
already referred to, and during the same
term 103,217 shares were issued to
acquire P. J. Taylor Pty. Hardy Spicer
(Aust.) Pty. was bought in 1955, and
further issues of 105,000 and 50,000
shares respectively during *1956 brought
Brico (Aust.) Pty., and D. P. Fisher, Ltd.,
(N.Z.) into the group.
Like the options, the share-issues have
been overlain with various and substantial
premiums, as will be apparent from the
p.-and-l. table.
Paid capital has been increased to
£4,699,480 since last balance-date, and
reserves depleted accordingly:
3955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £1,877,507 £2,067,507 £3,132,987
Reserves .. .. 2,043,495 2,556,264 3,218,963
Notes .. 1,066,500 1,066,500 505,615
Overdraft .. 633,623 1,165,116 235,210
Creditors .. .. 550,937 578,318 507,439
Loans at call ..
Tax provision .. 266,728 366,362 395,405
Staff funds .. 62,401 74,104 86,746
Final div. .. 140,813 155,063 234,743
£6,642,004 £8,029,234 £8,429,708
Freeholds . . 1,127,441 1,393,218 1,411,045
Plant, vehicles, etc. 1,240,425 1,601,359 1,669,205
Shares assoc, cos. 641,876 816,876 889,376
Advances to assoc.
c° s - .. ..
Stock .. .. 1,925,055 2,368,027 2,506,372
Debtors . . .. 1,250,646 1,337,782 1,448,831
Cash, bonds .. 12,219 16,587 17,194
Intangibles .. 444,342 465,385 465,385
£6,642,004 £8,029,234 £8,429,708
Inventories (at-or-below-cost) increased
by £138,145 to £2,506,172, regarded as a
normal stock-figure and book-debts
stood £111,049 higher at £1,448,831, “due
mainly to the general lessening of
liquidity in the trade.”
After allowing for depreciation, the
net increment to fixed assets was £85,673,
and details of expenditure in this con-
nection are mentioned in the notes on
subsidiaries ; and a further £66,000 was
invested in affiliated cos., in particular
Kirkstall-Repco Pty., and Super Seals
Pty.
After reaching a peak in 1954-55, new-
vehicle registrations have fallen-off
sharply since, ostensibly due to the
Government stringencies of March, 1956,
But sales have been high enough to main-
tain a brisk increase in the overall level
of registrations except in the case of
motor-cycles. Comparative figures for
four-wheel vehicles in all States, as
supplied by the Commonwealth Statis-
tician, are:
Vehicles Registered.
Private. Commercial,
1938-39 562,271 258,925
1950- .. .. 882,455 548,373
1951- .. .. 1,020,992 ' 580,502
1952- .. .. 1,107,659 579,444
1953- .. .. 1,199,833 606,899
1954- .. 1,347,082 649,609
1955- .. .. 1,472,259 678,857
1956- .. .. 1,569,333 702,576
New Registrations.
1938-39 .. 54,107 24,927
3 950-51 .. .. 127,671 77,933
1951- .. .. 125,319 73,461
1952- .. .. 93,117 52 .690
1903- .. .. 125,104 57,893
1904- ..., .. 166,324 67,665
395a-56 .. 163,598 69.332
1956-57 .. . , 149,695 58,967
Repco leans heavily towards the
replacement-parts trade for its receipts,
and therefore, being somewhat out of
with current trends, probably
doesn’t feel the current downturn as
keenly as distributors and manufacturers
of new cars. Also in its favor is the move
towards incorporation of more Aus-
tralian-made parts in the popular models.
Then, too, the export trade has possi-
bilities and Repco is probing Far
Eastern markets, but here high produc-
tion costs impose limitations and a
proportionately large home market is
required to make feasible the differential-
pricing policy necessary for competition
with more favored exporters.
Impressed by Repco’s dividend record
—ls p.c. has been forthcoming each
year since 1951—and scenting further
capital-gains, investors are happy to


accept the low yield of £4 10s. lid. per
cent. (10 p.c. div. basis) on the current
market-price of 11s. each for the shares,
recently subdivided into ss. units and
backed by net tangible assets of ss. lid.
Queensland National Pastoral
Co., Ltd.
JUDGING by last term’s excellent
showing, Q.N.P. now seems to be
well set; but the co. is still a longish
way short of its glory of 40 years back.
For a few years after taking-over
certain assets of the now-merged
Queensland National Bank in 1915, this
pastoralist provided its backers, who
were in for £850,000, with great expec-
tations, and at the high-water mark of its
career returned a £124,335 net profit in
good 1918 money. Thenceforth, however,
the expiry of wartime contracts brought
on a speedy downturn of Q.N.P.’s
fortunes, and in 1926 the co. was able to
call misere with a tidy loss of £205,435,
following the disastrous drought of that
year.
The mounting deficit soon reached
hopeless proportions, and equity-scrip
suffered an enforced shrinkage of
£525,000 in 1932, when the £1 ords. were
lopped to 2s. 6d. face-value, a reduction
never since made good. The prefs. were
left intact, but holders subsequently
(1938) agreed to forgo arrears of divs.
(£192,500= 15s. sd. a share) and to accept
a reduced div.-rate, 6 p.c. cumulative,
instead of 7 p.c. By way of compensa-
tion, in any distribution beyond 6 p.c.
the prefs. participate fully with the
ords., over which they also take prece-
dence in the event of a wind-up.
Following a 13-year abstinence, the
prefs. began to earn regular div.-cheques
from 1938, but the ords. went without
for 22 years until 1942.
This snakes-and-ladders performance
may seem ancient history now, but it
lends color to the chairman’s warning
about complacency where yields from
pastoral investments are concerned— a
warning hammered home by . the
inclusion of a 14 p.c. bonus in the latest
20 p.c. handout, and especially pertinent
in the current year, in view of the poor
seasonal conditions prevailing in the
Queensland backblocks, where Q.N.P.
has leasehold runs covering about 10,000
square-miles.
Despite a £26,660 increase in working-
expenses, “largely attributable to the long
pumping season on the far-western cattle
properties,” and additional charges for
general expenses, net profit showed-up
£7742 higher at £89,707 for the year
ended December 31 last, after setting
aside something for taxation and £34,724
(up £4,133) for depreciation.
The improvement was partly fortuitous.
Out of 815 bales of wool sold, 462 were
carried-over from the previous year as a
result of the shearing dispute, and at an
average £96 15s. 2d. a bale certainly
realised something in excess of 1956 book-
Values. On the other hand, cattle sales
for the year totalled 12,595 head, com-
pared with 11,219 in 1956, and the average
realisation for fat bullocks was about £2
higher at £32 14s. od., offset to some
extent by an equal decline in the average
price realised for fat cows:
10 p.c. 10 p.c.
Y Dividends ——> To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. serves. serves.
£/£/£/£> &
1952.. 36,077 25,000 7,500 3,577 168,302
Unexplained addition, £4668 .. 172,970
1953.. 86,987 37,500 1U250 38,232 211,202
1954.. 67,148 37,500 11,250 18,398 229,60u0
17J p.c. 17 j p.c.
1955.. 75,624 43,750 13,125 18,749 248,349
20 p.c. 20 p.c.
1956.. 81,965 50,000 15,000 16,965 .265,314
20 p.c. 20 p.c.
1957 s . . 89,707 50,000 15,000 24,709 290,023
Reserves now total £290,023, a com-
mendable performance, considering that
the residue of a big deficit was only
cleared in 1944. Earning-rates on
combined capital, pref. and ord., have
shown-up well over the past five years—■
11.1 p.c. (1952), 26.7, 20.6, 23.3, 25.2 and
27.6 p.c. (1957).
New leases adjoining most properties
have been granted by the Queensland
Lands Department, conditional upon
developmental expenditure to improve
carrying-capacity, and Q.N.P.’s cattle
continue to make good progress in
numbers, quality and class. Important
in this regard is the poll-shorthorn stud
established at Barclay in 1941, which is
being steadily augmented by importations
of pedigreed stock.
Excess of new brandings over natural
decreases and turnoff last year totalled
3066 head, and the co. now has an esti-
mated 89,803 head of beef-cattle at its
disposal. Over the last few years sheep-
flocks have had a rough time, due to
mortality among aged sheep and the
smaller number of lambs reared, and at
last balance-date only 10,657 head could
be mustered, compared with 13,546 in
1956, although there were no sales during
the year.
The steady consolidation shows-up in
the balance-sheet:
Paid capital— 1955. 1956. 1957.
Preference .. £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Ordinary .. 75,000 75,000 75,000
Reserves .. 248,349 265,314 290,023
Creditors, etc.* .. 409,645 443,753 452,460
Dividends .. 56,875 65,000 65,000
£1,039,869 £1,099,067 £1,132,483
Freehold land .. 27,903 27,903 27,902
Plant, fittings .. 74,972 71,337 83,618
Leases .. .. 197,171 219,532 246,094
Livestock .. .. 162,214 176,815 183,687
Stores, etc. .. 51,051 88,798 46,016
Debtors . . . . 578 802 3,459
Cash, bonds, shares 525,980 513,880 541,707
£1,039,869 £1,099,067 £1,132,483
* Includes provision for taxation and contingencies.
Working-capital is unassessable from
the figures given, but is certainly
adequate. Against creditors. £452,460,
which includes tax-provisions (unstated)
and unstated provisions for unspecified
contingencies, can .be set cash or its
equivalent running to £436,053, and there
is £105,654 set-down for shares in other
cos. (at cost). Catching the eye is the
book-value attributed to livestock, well
discounted at £183,687 (up £6872).
While an expanding home market is
currently absorbing about four-fifths of
Australian beef-meat production (804,000
tons for 1956-57), and on the export side
the 15-year meat agreement with the U.K.
and the Federal bounty-payments give
the industry its present stability, long-
term expansion demands improved, high-
quality lightweight carcasses suitable for
the chilled and prepackaged frozen-meat
trade.
About 77 p.c. of all exports go to the
British housewife, who, since the easing
of rationing and the return to private
trading, has placed a premium on the
admittedly superior Argentinian product.
At present most Australian beef is
shipped frozen, only partly because of
transport difficulties. To stimulate herd-
improvement, the Government recently
announced specifications for a new
“chiller grade” of beef carrying a bounty-
rate of sd. a lb., and rates were also
increased to sd. on bone-out and
certain classes of bone-in beef.
Although not directly engaged in the
export trade, Q. N. Pastoral emphasises
its support for the longer viewpoint;
and the sharemarket shows its awakening
confidence by pricing the £1 prefs. at
455. and the 2s. 6d. ords. at 7s. 6d., the
by-no-means-assured yields being respec-
tively £8 17s. lOd. and £6 13s. 4d. Both
classes of scrip are well covered with
respective asset-backings of 475. 7d. and
4s. 6d.
Rosella Preserving
T>ROLIFIC crops of fruit and vege-
tables provided ample raw material
for Rosella’s modem, high-speed plants
last term and, while maintaining both
turnover and earnings, the co. pushed
output well ahead of sales.
In view of the consequent build-up in
stocks and the present well-supplied and
competitive state of export and local
markets, the board considers that a reduc-
tion in output may be necessary in the
current year. However, efficient pro-
duction-methods, sound finances, close
ties with the retail trade and the not-in-
considerable goodwill of ultimate con-
sumers buttress Rosella’s position as one
of the largest and most successful food-
processors in Australia, and its reputation
as a consistently good profit-winner and
div.-payer is unlikely to suffer from the
less-buoyant trading conditions now con-
fronting the food-processing industry.
Rosella products were first marketed
in 1895, the Victorian-registered Rosella
Preserving and Manufacturing Co., Ltd.,
—to give the co. its full title —taking-over
the business in 1910. Today, a wide
range of jams, soups, pickles, tinned-
fruits and various other canned or bottled
foods are turned-out at six large factories
in Victoria, N.S.W., South Australia and
Tasmania. The bulk of the output is
sold on the Australian market.
The extensive re-equipment of manu-
facturing-units carried-out in the post-
war years and the accompanying
extensions to factories, warehouses, etc.,
have been largely financed from retained
earnings, but to supplement the funds
available from this source shareholders
were asked to put up another £300,000
(£200,000 capital, £IOO,OOO premiums)
between 1949 and 1951.
Paid capital, all in 10s. ords., reached
£1,000,000 in 1956, a generous two-for-
three bonus-issue during that year
following revaluation of freeholds and
the transfer to reserves of £450,000 from
a previously undisclosed stock-reserve.
Although the div.-rate (which averaged


r
Every professional
man oWes it to him-
self and his family to
enquire about “Table
32.”
INCOME
PROTECTION
for
Professional
Men
PERSONAL
ACCIDENT
AND SICKNESS
INSURANCE
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD. (Inc. in Qld., 1895)
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
12| p.c. over the 10 years pre-
ceding the bonus-issue) was
reduced from 15 p.c. to 1 2\
p.c. last term, the amount
distributed was worth 20.8 p.c.
on pre-bonus capital.
Strong competition was
encountered during the year to
September 30 last, and, while
pet earnings of the parent co.
and its subsidiary inched
forward by £713 to £222,860,
the small improvement in profit
was more than accounted for
by the lower provisions for
taxation (down £6576 at
£159,037) and depreciation
(down £6347 at £50,462):
Rosella Preserving and
Subsidiaries.
Re-
Sept., Profit. f Dividends—, serves.*
£ £ £
1952.. 089 121p.c.= 75,000 584,030
1953.. lti „ „ 75,000 658,406
1954.-188,150 1 71 „ „ 105,000 741,556
Tax overprovided,
£23,825 .. .. 765,381
1955.. 276 17ip.c.=105,000 910,657
Freeholds revalued,
£420,832 .. .. 1,331,489
Reserves capitalised,
£400,000 .. .. 931,489
Profit sale, assets, £222 931,711
From inner (stock) re-
serve, £450,000 .. 1,381,711
Tax overprovided,
£12,296 .. .. 1,394.007
1956.-222,147 15 p.c.=105,000 1,511,154
Profit sale assets,
£14,671 . . . 1,525,825
1957.. 12jp.e.=125,000 1,623,685
* Subject to goodwill, etc., £30,508,
at September 30, 1957.
The \2\ p.c. div. called for an
extra £20,000, but a comfort-
able margin was maintained
between earnings and dividend,
the profit representing a return
of 22.2 p.c. on the bonus-
enlarged capital. A further
£14,671 came in as capital-
profits on the sale of certain
fixed assets.
A 57 p.c. leap in stocks (up
£733,259) was the most striking
movement in (he balance-sheet,
the co. running-down its hold-
ings of cash, etc., by £408,001
and going to the bank for
£277,960 in order to carry the
heavier load:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1956. 1957.
Capital ..£1,000,000 £1,000,000
Reserves .. 1,511,154 1,623,685
Overdraft .. .
Creditors .. 201.508 ) 213,406
Staff fund . . 15,000 )
Tax provision 165,383 159,663
Final div. .. 105,000 125,000
£2,998,045 £3,399,714
Property . . 780,845 857,325
Plant, etc/ . . 202,071 223,8 51
Stocks . . 1,281,134 2,014.393
Debtors .. 278,344 256,464
Cash, etc. . . 425,143 17,142
Goodwill, etc. 30,508 30,508
£2,998,045 £3,399,714
Extensions to warehouses at
Melbourne and Tatura (Vic.),
new offices in Sydney and
Brisbane and the' installation of
ne w plant at the main
Melbourne factory lifted the
hook-value of fixed assets (up
£98,291) past the £1,000,000-
roark. Working-capital in-
creased by £14,240 to £1,511,970
over the year, despite the size-
able capital-outlay, but was, of
course, in a rather less liquid
form by the end of the term.
Modern equipment and
efficient production methods
have helped the co. to combat
cost-increases in past years and
the board expects that
economies arising from the use
of recently-installed plant will
minimise the effect on unit-
costs of any reduction in out-
put during the current term.
Consolidated accounts at
September 30 last show a net
tangible asset backing of
265. 3d. for each f.-p. 10s. stock-
unit, the scrip at 295. yield-
ing £4 6s. 2d. p.c. from a
p.c. distribution.
United Provisions, Ltd.
TN The Bulletin of February
5, 1958, the net tangible
asset backing of the f.-p. £1
ords. in United Provisions, Ltd.,
was shown at 28s. Id. This was
a misprint, and should have
read “a little over 38s. Id.”
Dylup Plantations, Ltd.
CVECOND annual report and
first full year’s accounts of
this copra and cocoa-planting
venture show that the pro-
moters didn’t greatly overstate
their case in the prospectus
issued September, 1956.
Budgeted net trading profit
for the six production years
to 1961 was:
Profit
To
Copra. Cocoa. Profit. Capital.
£ £ £ p.c.
1957 .. 24,000 10.500 34,500 2L6
1958 . . 24,000 13,500 37,500 23.4
1959 ~ 24,000 16,000 40.000 25.0
1960 . . 24,000 18,000 42,000 26.2
1961 . . 24.000 19,500 43,500 27.2
Actual trading profit for the
year ended January 31 last
was £29,924, taking . into
account £SOOO written - off
preliminary expenses. This
figure represented an earning-
rate of 18.4 p.c. and was calcu-
lated after providing £6738 for
depreciation and £2343 for
directors’ fees. Residents
(companies and individuals) of
the Territory of New Guinea
are exempt from tax insofar as
income derived within the
territory is concerned.
A downward trend in earn-
ings for copra was due in part
to a fall of £4 4s. per ton in
the average realisation of hot-
air dried copra —the highest
grade, which the plantation
processes exclusively, and which
had previously been fetching
around £62 10s. a ton.
Since the agreement with the
British Ministry of Food in
respect to the sale of copra
expired last year, the Common-
wealth Government has taken-
over the Marketing Board and
introduced a system of market-
ing based on world prices for
copra produced by the Philip-
pines, a leading producer, and,
despite a somewhat less stable
market, no great slip in average
receipts is expected.
As estimated, copra-yield in
1957 was about 1200 tons, and
it is anticipated that this figure
will be held constant for many
years. Emphasis is to be on
the more profitable cocoa-bean,
which, since the war, has been
selling at from £250 to £350 a
ton in normal times.
Cocoa-production of 135
tons last year exceeded expec-
tations, and, with demand well
maintained, has helped to off-
set falling returns from copra.
A programme involving a large
capital-outlay is currently under
way, designed to more than
double cocoa-production in the
not-too-distant future trees
become fully bearing in six or
seven years.
Dylup Plantations was in-
corporated under Territory
Ordinance in 1956 with the
object of acquiring plantations
and sundry equipment from
New Guinea Estates Pty., one
of the largest planters in N.G.,
which had been operating for
about 30 years. Consideration
for the deal was £190,000. Of
a public issue of 317,997 shares,
all ords., about 220,000 were
taken up by N.G. residents.
Located in the Madang Area,
the Dylup holdings cover about
4500 acres, on which are
planted 140,000 coconut-palms
and interplanted with these —
for the direct sun is detrimental
—about 90,000 cocoa-trees.
Plantations don’t as a rule
have much to show in their
accounts apart from fixed assets
and plantation development:
Balance-sheet, January 31.
1957. 1958.
Paid capital .. £163,000 £163,000
Reserves .. 3,811 10,175
Overdraft . . 49,052 39,786
Creditors and pro-
visions . . 7,237 10,305
Final dividend., 6,520 9,780
£229,620 £233,046
Fixed assets, de-
velopment, etc. 195,795 208,067
Stocks, stores .. 9,032 5,548
Debtors .. 13,607 13,511
Cash . . .. 1,186 920
Intangibles .. 10,000 5,000
£229,620 £233,046
Only notable movements are a
£12,272 increase in the cost-Zess-
depreciation book-value of fixed
assets, which cover freeholds
and leaseholds, development
and establishment, buildings,
furniture, motor-vehicles and
ship property, all combined in
the accounts; and the £9266
chipped-off the sum owed to
the bank in the previous term.
By and large, the Melanesian
area will probably tend to
become the last and most suit-
able stronghold for that
peculiarly European institution,
plantation-culture based on
abundant, low-cost (if low-
grade) indigenous labor.
So far falling world prices
for raw materials haven’t hit
the co.’s products very hard.
At the current market price of
11s. 10d., the 10s. shares, each
backed by tangible assets of
10s. 4d., offer a yield of
10.2 p.c. on a 12 p.c. div. basis.
Increasing Mineral Output
TN view of the present depres-
sion in most aspects of the
mining industry, it is interest-


to wise i»vesl° r
& eva °
fte m° to
4 pounds earn sev General
>ne hUn4l: an years throng* «* Qtber
° f fl,e Tssne of £ „ yea rs W.
W ontbss% ,
10 X «»■ B “ rt " « 3 months 34%.
2 ? ea 6 mont"s *%’ free of
9 months .•• ?al4 quarter 6i%
and interes stocfc = ar no ies
_ Cumulate cu rrei
exchange• ljr rests issue
compounded » banners loiW d.
15 y® arS ’ fvustral ia “
of sto _ ia i Bank of be
from **ose off ices of Dire ctorS
o btailed t an Qck Bx change-
members of irman; ? G . MenZi eS
Er xc Hug** s ’ Ch : , j. M.
ire Brio Hughes * J
(AanagihS* * clar * e -
’ r a. Were & s ° n * no t
- —too
ing to hear that real progress
has been made in spite of the
overspeculation in 1954-57.
“Australia’s mineral output
increased by more than half in
the 10 years from 1946, and
considerable further expansion
of production and refinery-
capacity is being made,” says
the A.N.Z. Bank in its April
“Quarterly Survey.”
“Because of the vast extent
of Australia’s lightly inhabited
country, it is thought that
greater expenditure upon
mineral exploration could be
expected to yield large divi-
dends.
“Recent discoveries of exten-
sive new mineral wealth, and
abundant indications that
further valuable resources are
likely to be revealed by the
extensive application of
advanced scientific prospect-
ing techniques, have given
fresh emphasis to the industry,”
the bank continues.
“As with the early opening-
up of Australia’s metallic ores,
recent development of mineral
resources, other than those
required for road and building
materials, has been chiefly in
response to the requirements
of overseas demand. Produc-
tion of uranium, rutile, and
tungsten, the most important,
in terms of ex-mine value, of
Australia’s more recently
developed minerals, has been
primarily for export, and, in
many cases, overseas concerns
have a substantial interest in
the local mining companies.
“The present may not seem
an appropriate time to press
ahead with mineral search and
development, for weak markets
for minerals have caused lead-
ing producers to cut back their
production,” says the “Survey”
But it concludes: “The justi-
fication lies in the need for the
closest possible assessment of
the country’s resources in
order to have an appreciation
of likely longer-term develop-
ment, and in order that best
economic use is made of them
in response to fluctuations in
world demand. There is always
the further possibility that,
even on today’s markets,
modern search-techniques may
yield rich rewards within the
wide areas available for pros-
pecting.”
These final comments of the
A.N.Z. Bank coincide with
those expressed by mining
authorities in The Bulletin of
recent years.
The Parting of the Ways
[From Li. Owen]
■pXTREME sensitivity has
formed a marked charac-
teristic of the search for oil in
Australia and its Territories
since inception more than half-
a-century ago. An insignificant
poop of gas, or a color of oil
in a well, often has been
sufficient to give rise to
booms—both minor and major
—in oil shares, followed,
inevitably, by a slump after
failure of a test to confirm
predictions.
In February this year an
announcement came from one
of the major partners in the
search for oil in Western Papua
to the effect that it was not
prepared to enter into further
commitments after the comple-
tion of the current drilling
programme. It added a
proviso that it might recon-
sider its withdrawal if favorable
results were obtained mean-
while.
It was still hoped that the
other major partner would
provide its share of the means
to continue the hunt for
petroleum to the point, if
necessary, where the chances
of success became remote.
That hope, however, was
shattered when it was stated—
not by the company involved,
but by the Minister for
National Development —that
the second partner would relin-
quish its interests, also under
the same proviso.
In between these two quali-
fied renunciations, a candid
report by another company,
also with powerful inter-
national backing (B. 2/4/’5B),
did not help matters, although
it is difficult to understand why
a depression of the stock-
market should have been
triggered by what was simply
a factual statement of the posi-
tion as it would appear to any
knowledgeable observer.
Then on April 7 W. G.
Walkley was quoted as saying
that “by the end of the year,
90 per cent, of oil-exploration
in Australia would have to
stop because the companies
could not raise the capital.”
[lt was later emphasised by Ampol
that Wapet has no intention of
restricting its W.A. operations.]
One very clear lesson to be
learned from the present crisis
—to which, unfortunately, the
stock-market has reacted so
violently—is the utter worth-
lessness of the Federal oil-
subsidy as an encouragement
to responsible drilling for
petroleum. Mr. Walkley has
described this subsidy as
“chicken-feed,” and, very
rightly, he revives the
suggestion that drilling-costs
be deducted from taxable
income, as is done in U.S.A.
aud some other countries.
It is notable, in every case,
that the threatened cessation of
operations has nothing to do
with oil-prospects from the
geological angle. Prospective
withdrawal has been dictated
by purely financial considera-
tions. In actual fact, the work
done by the several organisa-
tions —although it has been
misinterpreted in some
instances makes the geo-
logical outlook quite encourag-
ing in some culled areas.


Beale Table Grand Pianola
£3OO
This rare and beautiful
instrument, in perfect
condition, can be inspected by
ringing Mr. Tatham, FL 3338
Sydney.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
o'suluvav
PTY . LTD a
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STF.REOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
"JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Wellington, April 8.
NOT for years has New
Zealand been enveloped in
such gloom.
With butter, wool and meat
prices still falling, it looks as
if there will be another deficit
in the balance-of-payments for
1958.
There is no prospect of any
relief from import-control. It
may even become more
stringent. The Government
says it has been “too generous”
with licences, but will not
curtail those already issued.
To tide-over, the Government
may be forced to resort to over-
seas borrowing, which it has so
often condemned.
The Budget is awaited with
foreboding. It is certain to
bring heavier taxation.
The tradingrbanks have been
instructed to reduce total over-
drafts by about 16 per cent,
over the next three months.
The dairy - farmer s’
guaranteed price will inevitably
have to be pruned drastically
before long.
Some experts see a possibility
of marginal unemployment
ahead, though there is no sign
of it yet.
After years of high income
and rollicking spending the
future takes-on a bleak look.
The governor of the Reserve
Bank, Mr. Fussell, told the
royal commission on local-
authority finance that the
immediate prospects were for
prosperity at a relatively high
level, but considerably lower
than the levels of the last few
years.
That’s about as cheerful as
anyone has ventured to be for
a good while.
Falling Prices
The Prime Minister, Mr.
Nash, back from a visit to
South-east Asia, said straight
away: “The position regarding
falling prices is critical. It is
worse than we expected.”
The Minister of Finance, Mr.
Nordmeyer, addressing the
Wellington Chamber of
Commerce, made no attempt to
wrap-up the unpalatable facts.
“Not for months, but for many
years, we have been living
beyond our means,” he said.
“It is going to take many years
before we reach equilibrium
and build up our reserves to a
safe level.”
Then he gave a broad and
ominous hint of what is in
store: “Whatever we have to
do in the Budget; whatever
additional restrictions may
have to be imposed; whatever
taxes —if any —may have to be
increased, I am sure that every-
one, however he may be affected
personally, will recognise that
these things have to be done,
not because the Government
likes to impose taxation, but
because these steps happen to
be in the interests of the
economy and stability of the
country.”
Plain enough! Though it
comes rather strangely from a
man who, only a few weeks
ago, when the Government was
taking Legislative authority to
pay its election-winning gift—
the £lOO tax-rebate—said he
believed that taxation should be
reduced.
Overdrafts
Meantime, Mr. Nordmeyer
has told the trading-banks that
he wants them to reduce total
overdrafts to £156 million by
the end of June.
At March 12 overdrafts
stood at £lB5 million, and they
do not usually reach their
annual peak till early in April,
so the reduction requested
amounts to at least £lO million
a month a figure generally
regarded as impossibly high.
In the three months‘from the
end of March to the end of
June last year overdrafts fell by
only £l2 million. The Minister
expects a reduction of £3O
million in the same time this
year.
But he has asked the banks
to keep in mind: (1) That “it
is desirable in the national
interest that adequate working-
capital should be made avail-
able to manufacturing industries
to enable them to expand pro-
duction to replace imports
which have necessarily been
curtailed” ; and (2) that “restric-
tions should not be imposed
so suddenly and drastically as
to force traders into a position
where they must realise their
stocks at a discount.”
Is the Minister going to tell
the banks how to perform this
miracle? Not a bit of it. “It
is not my business to tell the
banks to whom they should
lend their money,” he says,
quite truthfully.
The Government is pretty
plainly preparing the way for
an announcement that it will
seek an overseas loan.
Mr. Nash said recently:
“Our income this year will be
less than we estimated. We
will have to find a way of
getting more money. It will
have to come from the sale of
produce, unless N.Z. decides to
borrow overseas.” To anyone
familiar with Mr. Nash’s way
of phrasing things the meaning
seems obvious.
Overseas Borrowing
For confirmation there is Mr.
Nordmeyer. He said the fall in
primary-produce prices raised
the question of whether
the Government should borrow
to honor agreements and con-
tracts it had made. He added
that, if it decided to borrow,
it had to consider from whom.
It is to be hoped, though it
is probably a forlorn hope, that,
under the pressure of adversity,
the Government may reconsider
its long-standing and mis-
guided opposition to joining the
International Monetary Fund
and the World Bank.
An approach to the London
money-market at this time
might not be very successful.
Sir James Fletcher, Tasman
Pulp and Paper chairman, who
has had some experience of
overseas borrowing, said
recently that N.Z. could not get
£lO million from London ; he
did not think it could get £1
million. He summed-up the
situation succinctly when he
said: “N.Z. must be developed
industrially. To develop it
must have finance. And it can
get finance only from the World
Bank.”
It is becoming increasingly
clear that dairy-farmers will
have to think again about their
“costs of production” and
accept a substantial reduction
in their guaranteed price.
Butter Down Further
Butter, down to a new low
of 2065. a cwt., is now selling
in the U.K. at 1375. a cwt. less
than the N.Z. farmer is receiv-
ing. It seems that an earlier
estimate of £22 million may
not cover the loss for the
season; reserve funds, which
stood at £l5 million at the
beginning of the season, will be
more than wiped-out, and the
Government will have to decide
what to do about it.
Mr. Nordmeyer is right when
he says: “We cannot go on
using Reserve Bank credit to
finance the dairy industry, and
taxpayers will take a lot of
convincing that they should find
£22 million a year to maintain
it, unless it can be clearly
demonstrated that the prices the
farmers are receiving are bare
costs of prduction.” Everyone
knows, of course, that it can’t
be so demonstrated.
The deputy Prime Minister
and Minister of Agriculture,
Mr. Skinner, is off to London
with a bodyguard of experts
to discuss the marketing of
N.Z.’s produce in general and
to press for protection against
dumped dairy - produce in
particular.
He was speeded on his way
by the Minister of Industries
and Commerce, Mr. Holloway,
who, in a forthright speech at
Auckland, said: “The signs are
that the English reaction is un-
favorable to our case for anti-
dumping duties. At least they
are being dangerously slow to
make up their minds. Does this
hesitance imply that the U.K.
is turning her back on the diffi-
culties of a loyal member of the
Commonwealth in favor of
flirtation with doubtful Euro-
pean markets? The sooner she
is frank about it the better. We
will know then where we stand
and what action to take.”
These blunt remarks got a
generally good Press in N.Z..
including strong commendation
from the Leader of the Opposi-
tion, Mr. Holyoake, but there
were some dissenting voices.
“Have patience and let there
be a truce to bull-roaring,” said
the deputy High Commissioner
for the U.K., D. M. Cleary.


Australia Can Be Their Haven
By The Hon. J. J. DEDMAN
Director of the Resettlement Department, Australian Council
for the World Council of Churches.
AUSTRALIA’S wonderful
record in helping to
solve the great inter-
national refugee-problem
was specifically praised by the
United Nations High Com-
missioner for Refugees, Dr.
August Lindt, during his recent
Visit to Australia.
Dr. Lindt recalled that
between 1945 and 1951, when
the International Refugee
Organisation ceased operations,
Australia gave resettlement
opportunities to nearly 20,000
1 refugees. Taking into account
our population and economic
resources, this stamped Aus-
tralia as one of the leading
nations in this great humani-
tarian work.
j Dr. Lindt was here as guest
1 of the Commonwealth Govern-
i ment, and was chief speaker at
.the Citizenship Convention in
; Canberra. During the course
of many addresses, press-inter-
views, and radio-talks, he out-
lined the present position of the
30,000 refugees within his
mandate remaining in camps
in Germany, Austria, Italy and
Greece. (Outside his mandate
are hundreds of thousands of
refugees such as Germans and
Greeks escaping from Com-
munist countries to their own
homelands.)
The plight of the “old”
refugees is nothing short of
tragedy, because they include
very many who cannot easily
be resettled by virtue of their
age, illnesses or other reasons ;
and so they eke out an existence
in the 200 or so camps dotted
throughout Europe.
In these days, the care of
refugees is a tripartite partner-
ship. The office of the High
Commissioner for Refugees is
the legal guardian of their
rights and exercises an overall
jurisdiction in their welfare. His
office, however, could not carry-
on its work in assisting refugees
without the help of what are
known as the voluntary
agencies, of which the World
Council of Churches is
perhaps the largest.
Since 1951 the World
Council of Churches, which has
its headquarters in Geneva, has
assisted more than 100,000
refugees to migrate from
Europe to countries such as
Australia, Canada and
America.
The Resettlement Depart-
ment is the Australian arm of
the World Council of Churches
and through our offices all over
Europe we worked in close co-
operation with the offices of the
High Commissioner for
Refugees.
The Resettlement Depart-
ment began in Melbourne five
years ago under Miss Margaret
Holmes. Soon afterwards, a
branch-office was opened in
Sydney under Miss Elsie
Needham, and later an office
was opened in Brisbane at
Sanders House, 116 Wickham
Street, Brisbane.
During the first year of
operations, 72 refugees were
brought to Australia. The
following year, the number in-
creased to 300. Then, by a
quite spectacular increase, the
number rose to 5,000 in 1956
—a truly wonderful effort. The
grand total since operations
began in 1951 is now more than
17,000.
Last year (1957) arrivals
numbered 5,600, which was a
record, but still rather less than
we had planned as our intake.
The factors which helped to
keep the numbers down were
quite beyond our control
the restriction of movement of
Southern Europeans to clo‘_e
relatives and the troubles in the
Middle East culminating in
the temporary closure of the
Suez Canal.
On the other hand, there
was the aftermath of the revolu-
tion in Hungary, and the echoes
of that terrible tragedy still
ring in our ears.
We recall that through the
wonderful work of UNREF
and the many voluntary
agencies throughout the world,
including the World Council
of Churches, the problem of
resettling and rehabilitating the
Hungarian refugees is well on
the way to being solved.
This was made possible by
the co-operation of the third
party involved in refugee opera-
tions—the Governments of-the'
Various receiving countries.
We are grateful that Aus-
tralia offered asylum to 15,000
Hungarians, of whom 13,500
have already arrived.
Of the 20,000 who sought
first asylum in Yugoslavia, not
one now remains, but in
Austria there are still 19,000
awaiting final resettlement.
Will these 19,000 be resettled
as expeditiously as were the
earlier cases, or will they swell
the numbers of the 300,000
“old” refugees waiting in vain
for an opportunity to begin life
afresh in a hew land?
I would like at this stage to
quote from several passages of
Dr. Lindt’s address to the
Citizenship Convention. Dis-
cussing the Hungarian problem,
he said:
The solution —almost a complete
solution —of the Hungarian refugee
problem proved that a truly inter-
national effort can solve a refugee
problem of considerable size
rapidly and efficiently. This is
economically and psychologically
the only reasonable way to proceed.
Instead of allowing a refugee to
deteriorate slowly—physically and
morally—in a camp, he must be
given the opportunity to start a
new life while his willpower and
initiative are still intact. In that
way, money is not wasted in unpro-
ductive care and maintenance-
costs.
Take, for example, the transport
of refugees to Australia, which
is not very close to the countries
of first asylum. The cost of trans-
port is no more than the cost of
care and maintenance of a refugee
for nine mpnths. When you keep
a refugee in camp for nine months,
you keep him alive, but you do not
solve any problems for him. A
speedy solution of the refugee
problem, therefore, is most import-
ant economically and, what is surely
more important, it is economical
in human suffering.
Dr. Lindt appealed to all
countries of emigration to help
solve the problem of “old”
refugees.
By 1960, it is the task of the
World Council of Churches,
in co-operation with the United
Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees, and the Governments,
to do all it can to bring about
a solution to this problem.
The kind of solution we
would like to see applied on a
large scale is typified by a
project which the Resettlement
Department has inaugurated
in Sydney.
The project concerns White
Russian refugees not only
those from World War II but
also from the First World War.
The project has taken the
form of the construction of a
home for these aged White
Russian refugees, to be built
in Cabramatta (N.S.W.). This
has been made possible by
the generous help afforded us
by the Russian Relief Asso-
ciation, of which Archbishop
Savva, of the Russian Orthodox
Church in Australia and New
Zealand, is the patron.
And so our work for
refugees goes on.
It is of more than passing
interest to mention that the
total amount advanced by the
World Council of Churches by
way of travel loans to all those
who have been helped to
come to Australia, is about
£1,750,000 of which more than
half has already been repaid.
As it is repaid, the money is
used over and over again for
the provision of further travel
loans. The nucleus of the fund
for these travel loans comes
from those churches which are
members of the World Council
of Churches and part of the
proceeds from the recent
nation-wide Christmas Bowl of
Remembrance Appeal will be
used for this purpose.
There is still much to be
done.
We must clear the camps in
Europe of the “old” refugees ;
we must resolve the problem of
the White Russian refugees in
China ; we must play our part
in helping “new” refugees, some
of whom may be outside the
mandate of the United Nations
High Commissioner for
Refugees.
It is estimated that this year
some 500,000 people will escape
from Communist countries into
Western Europe and a pro-
portion of these will want to
migrate overseas
It is hoped that the Australian
Government will heed the
appeal of the High Commis-
sioner to assist in resettling
those 30,000 “old” refugees,
many of whom have been in
camps in Europe for as much
as 10 years.
The great majority of the
refugees who have come to
Australia are an economic
asset to this country.
Surely, since we have gained
so much through bringing them
here, it is reasonable for us to
make provision for a few cases
which may turn out to be
“uneconomic”!
With the permission of the
Government and the continu-
ing help of the United Nations
High Commissioner for
Refugees, the World Council of
Churches hopes to continue to
give these hapless people some
glimmer of hope that here, in
this wonderful country of ours,
they may find a new purpose
in life.
This is our objective, and we
trust we shall not fail.


mi
j
1
...the key to
modern living!
» \ VO. '
\'
I /
WOOL
■.the key
to more
healthy
living
In every climate, hot or cold, in
every weather, wet or dry, wool
protects your health.
WOOL
..the key
to more
comfortable
living
Wool gives you lightness com-
bined with warmth, and softness
with strength.
Wool, the health fibre made by Nature
herself, unlocks the door to better living
for you. Most versatile fabric material
known to man, wool can be woven,
knitted or felted, giving the widest
possible variety of uses . . . from baby
clothes to immaculate suits and glam-
orous evening gowns . . . from carpets
to warm, healthy blankets and beauti-
fully hanging drapes. There is no
substitute for wool in modern living.
c *
4
WOOL
.. the
key to
better
value
Wool resists creasing, stays new-
looking longer and gives more
wear than other fabrics.
A
WOOL
.. the
key to
safer
living
Wool is a flame-resistant
domestic fibre, making it the
safest fabric you can buy.
WOOL
.. the
key to
fashion
leadership
Fashion designers like wool.
It drapes better, holds colour,
line, and shape longer.
M
r*
!"N
m.
i
&
*lBl
THERE IS NO SUBSTITUTE FOR
. the key to modem living


Party on MOWTAI
IT was my first contact with
Australians in the raw —
“raw” certainly being the
right word, but perhaps
“impact” would be better than
“contact.” Since meeting that
first mob of Aussies I have seen
much of Australia and met
hundreds of Australians, but I
still regard the race with some
of the awe engendered by that
first impression.
The story really begins in
Macassar, capital of the
Celebes in what was then the
Netherlands East Indies —the
time was August, 1946, almost
an exact year after the Japs
packed-in. My ship, a small
British coastal tanker of 975
tons gross, had docked with one
of the first cargoes of motor-
spirit produced at the rebuilt
refinery at Balikpapan, stinking
stuff which made us wonder if
there were not a few dead Japs
left in the fractionating
columns.
Macassar still showed a lot
of damage from the war-time
air-raids, and in fact everything
was just like war-time days, as
the Dutch-Indonesian war was
dragging out its wretched
story. As in all the other ports
in the Indies at that time, there
was a delightful state of
anarchy; no Customs, dock-
police or gates ; no law at all,
really, save that of the
military and occasional curfews:
it was like the good old war-
time days in the Mediterranean.
The evening we arrived the
third-engineer and I strolled
ashore to sample the entertain-
ment offered by Macassar.
(There were only seven Euro-
peans and 22 Chinese on the
ship.) After flogging our duty-
free cigarettes at the customary
1000 per cent, profit, we made
our way through the town
looking for a suitable bar in
which to spend our hard-
earned cash. There wasn't
anything that attracted us until
finally we found a large hotel
where, to our surprise, there
seemed to be considerable
hilarity and dancing. We made
o >'.( way to the bar and ordered
iwo glasses of the gut-rot they
sold under the name of
brandy.
Shuddering under the impact
of this ambrosia we turned our
backs to the bar and surveyed
the crowded hotel-floor. Large,
beefy-faced Dutchmen in
khaki, most with revolvers on
their hips, were dancing with
their womenfolk and really
whooping it up. They all
seemed to be having a wonder-
ful time, shouting loudly to
each other, perspiring fearfully
and imbibing enormous quanti-
ties of gin ; they were the first
cheery - looking bunch of
Dutchies I had seen in my
considerable experience with
them in the Indies.
Pondering this phenomenon,
I suddenly realised we had
reached the third round of
drinks—each drink was about
a half-tumbler in size—and that
nobody wanted any money
from us.
My remark to this effect was
overheard by a slim, fair-
haired individual who was
standing near us aiming a
large camera at the festive
throng. He turned his head and
said with a strong Australian
twang, “You’ve gatecrashed the
farewell-party for the
Governor-General of the Outer
East Indies ; but never mind.
Drink up, it’s all on the house.”
TTE was an Australian war-
correspondent who had
been detailed to make a record
of this farewell-party, so we
chummed-up with him, holding
his flash-bulbs while he took
more shots. Noticing that none
of the Dutchmen acted as if
the Australian was present, and
remembering what some of the
Dutch had told me in other
ports, I asked the Australian
how he got on with the Nether-
landers.
“Oh, we hate each other’s
guts”—his flash-bulb popped-
“Dutch b s,” he added,
quite dispassionately, as he
bent down to insert another
plate.
My own sympathies lay with
the Dutch. Of all the Western
nations none suffered more
because of the war than the
stiff-necked Dutch. Their
country flooded, their ports
and towns devastated, the
horrors of occupation, their
merchant and naval fleets
almost wiped-out, their great
and flourishing empire in the
East stripped and devastated.
This was bad enough, but on
top of this was what the
Dutch considered the base
treachery of their allies that
prevented them from returning
to the Indies before the Japs
surrendered their arms to the
natives Roosevelt reaching
from the grave to see all the
colonial systems destroyed, no
matter what the cost in iives
and misery or what travesty of
government would take their
place, no matter how many
decades of dedicated tuition and
order were to be disrupted and
replaced by Asiatic despotism.
On top of all this the Aus-
tralian Government was actively
supporting and sympathising
with the rebels who were com-
mitting atrocities against Dutch
women and children and
murdering British troops. Aus-
tralian Communist-led unions
had held-up Dutch ships in
Australian ports for fantastic
lengths of time.
Small wonder that the Dutch
attitude to Australian troops
was rather cold, to put it
mildly. The average Digger is
the last person to take such
treatment —hence the strained
relations. So when the Aus-
tralian correspondent had taken
all the shots he required, we
invited him down to our ship
for a drink.
He was only too pleased;
but first, he said, he must see
some mates of his he had
arranged to meet. He referred
to them as the “gravediggers.”
“Yeah,” he replied to our
obvious query, “you know-
imperial War Graves blokes,


all Aussies. They’re collecting
all the dead around here and
putting them into cemeteries.”
* Off we careered in his jeep,
and duly met a bunch of these
chaps all dressed in crumpled
khaki with no insignia or rank-
markings that I could detect. We
saw quite a bit of them during
the next couple of days before
the ship sailed, as we kept
company with the war-corres-
pondent —and what a bunch of
characters they were! When
they weren’t working it seemed
to be their object to lap-up
all the island’s jungle-juice.
At a time of their lives when
they should have been at
college or* completing their
technical education they had
been called upon to fight tfie
most savage enemy in the
world, under tropical condi-
tions, following - up with
one of the most depressing and
distasteful jobs in the world.
Add to this the tropical diseases
and climate, plus the fact that
they were doing their work in
the middle of a guerrilla-war
between trigger-happy Dutch-
men and'lndonesian rebels who
were little better than brigands
in the Celebes district.
Fortunately their relations
with the natives were excellent;
several times they advised me,
if I ever got myself into
a tight corner in Indonesia,
to tell the locals I was an
Aussie. This advice appeared
to be largely right, as I sub-
sequently discovered. The
gravediggers could all speak
fluent bazaar-Malay, the lingua
franca of the East, and fre-
quently used it among them-
selves ; in fact their worst
insult among themselves was
to be called a belonda barstid
belonda being Malay
for a Dutchman and barstid
a term of affection or contempt,
depending on the circumstances.
A BOUT six months later we
ran across the gravediggers
again.
Our cargo was motor-spirit
from Singapore to Morotai —
fully laden, we only carried
about 800 tons. The trip was
quite familiar, as we had done
it several times before ; south-
east from Singapore, through
the Java Sea, north between
Borneo and the Celebes and
then east to Morotai. On the
chart the Celebes looks like
a dead octopus with one
tentacle straggled out towards
Morotai, which lies south of
the Philippines and almost
exactly halfway between Japan
and Australia; hence its use as
an Australian staging-post for
the air-service to Australian
troops in Japan.
About two days before
arriving at Morotai I met the
radio-officer in a Dutch K.P.M.
liner ; surprisingly, my opposite-
number was an Australian. As
they were due in Morotai at the
same time as us I invited him
on board for a drink ; and
when he said they had some
Australian gravediggers on
board from Macassar as
passengers to Morotai I Was
only too pleased to ask them
as well. Little did I know what
I had let myself in for.
We arrived at Morotai,
past the wreckage-littered
beaches we knew so well. The
By A. AUSTIN
familiar pattern of beheaded
coconut-palms and shattered
stumps marked where the
Yanks had stormed ashore, and
all along the beach was a
jumble of rotting military
equipment, including quite
a lot of unexploded bombs
and live ammunition. By
our rickety little pier a dozen
small landing - craft lay
sunk or awash in the shallow
water, presumably scuttled by
the Yanks at the end of the
war. Further up the beach,
northwards, a wrecked aircraft
lay stranded in the shallows
like a great silver whale.
And there were signs of
the later Australian occupa-
tion. Mixed in the wreckage,
half-buried in the sand or
bobbing in the gentle wavelets,
glinting golden-brown in the
sunlight, were thousands of
the peculiarly large beer-
bottles used- by Australian
breweries. The logistic problem
of keeping an Australian base
supplied with beer must be a
major problem.
The K.P.M. boat was already
alongside and, true to his word,
the Aussie Sparks arrived,
bringing with him three of the
gravediggers. I quickly got out
the gin and beer and settled
down for a few quick ones
before tea. After tea we had a
few more and then decided to
go across to the Army camp to
see an open-air film —one of the
gravediggers had been in
Morotai some time and had
come down to meet the others,
so he knew the ropes. As a
group of us from the ship
walked ashore, this Australian,
a tall chap, gave us all the
gen about the two camps,
Dutch and Aussie, which lay
together.
“We’re quite comfortable
here,” he said, “although our
sentries and the Dutch sentries
take pot-shots at each other at
night-time, you know any-
thing for a laugh.”
After the film-show we came
back to the ship, but we had
lost the lanky gravedigger who
had been our guide. One of
the gravediggers said he had
fallen asleep behind a rock. To
this day I wonder at this, know-
ing their capacity for drink,
and can only presume he had
been hitting the bottle before
he came down to the ship.
DACK on board we got down
to sorrte serious drinking
with the three Australians ; Bill
the Sparks from the K.P.M.
boat, Sam the gravedigger, and
Tiny, strictly speaking not
a gravedigger but something
to do with the small landing-
craft that collected the
bodies. He was called Tiny
because he was the youngest,
not the smallest. He was still
under 20, while the rest of us
were'in our very early twenties.
Three or four of the other
officers on board joined in,
each bringing some contribu-
tion, and soon the party was
booming. Crates of beer were
lugged in and almost as quickly
emptied, while Australian gin
that we got for 7s. a bottle was
flowing like water.
With that morbid curiosity
engendered by contact with the
macabre we plied the grave-
diggers with questions about
their grisly trade. Fragments
of their replies still stick in my
memory after ten years:
“We used to dig up all kinds
of people besides Aussies.
Dutchmen, Yanks, Eurasians,
Chinese, Malays, Japs all
kinds —but we could always tell
an Aussie as he usually had his
head cut off by the Japs for
refusing to work.
“You can’t make an Aussie
work, you know, if he doesn’t
want to.”
This was said not with bitter-
ness towards the Japs, but with
an air of pride at the Aus-
tralian working-man’s integrity
—an insight into the Australian
mentality which I have always
remembered.
I will not remember any more
details.
The party roared on and I
laid-on sandwiches and boiled
eggs, bringing back the Chief
Engineer with me to join in the
party. The Chief, a bull-necked,
thickset New Zealander in his
early fifties, was a character in
his own right. He drank a
bottle of gin a day as his staple
before he even considered
going on the booze. A wonder-
ful fellow, he died some years
later in Singapore—of cirrhosis
of the liver.
"Meet the Chief! He’s a
New Zealander,” I cried, as if
that was sufficient introduction.
The Chief extended his
hand. "Hallo, you Colonial
b s.” Then, noticing the
food, he turned to me and
said, “Watch these Aussies.
They eat that much they all
need two alimentary systems.”
Or words to that effect.
The gravediggers were by
now drinking raw gin by the
half-tumblerful—a performance
which we sailors found awe-
inspiring, all the more so
because we fancied ourselves as
drinkers. Sam did pass-out for
a while, slumped in a chair
with his blond hair hanging
over his face, but being the
perfect host I filled his
Digger’s slouch-hat with ice-
cubes and rammed, it on his
head. As the cubes melted he
slowly revived and once more
joined in the party as if noth-
ing had happened.
Round about 4 a.m. the party
broke-up and I saw the three
Australians on to the narrow
pier, *which was only big
enough for a pipeline and not
much else. They had a job
negotiating the gap between the
ship and the pier, all the more
so because it had started to
rain heavily and they were
hampered by six bottles of gin
bought from me. They lurched
off unsteadily, waving a last
beery goodbye as I made my
way back to my cabin,
through the debris to my bunk.
As usual after a party my
bunk started heaving and roll-
ing, then took-off ; but eventu-
ally I had it flying on an even
keel. The secret is to leave the
light on and go to sleep with
your eyes open. Hardly had
I got off to sleep when I was
awakened by somebody fumbl-
ing at my door: the Aussie
Sparks, Bill.
“Sorry to disturb you,
Sparks,” he said, -“but have you
got a torch, a flashlight or
something, ’cos Tiny’s fallen off
the pier.”
My mind filled with an
image of Tiny drifting around
in the dark in shark-infested
waters.
“It’s not as bad as all that,’*
said Bill; “he’s fallen off that
coral causeway at the end of
the pier and he’s splashing
around somewhere in the
shallow water. But we can’t see
him, what with the rain and
the dark.”
* "DULLING on a pair of khaki
shorts and a pair of shoes
and grabbing a powerful torch,
{Continued on page 56)


G.B.S. STRIKES FROM THE GRAVE
£500 To Kill Dr. Johnson
TWELVE months after George
Bernard Shaw died, in November,
1951, a Shaw Memorial Appeal
Fund was launched.
Its objects were threefold: to est-
ablish “Shaw Awards” to assist young
playwrights, and musicians ; to
encourage the worthy presentation of
Shaw’s plays “in appropriate festival
settings” and, if possible, to form a
permanent repertory-company to per-
form the plays in Britain and to tour the
English-speaking world ; to provide for
the upkeep of Shaw’s home, which G.B.S.
had left to the National Trust.
The fund was opened under the very
best auspices. R. A. Butler, Chancellor
of the Exchequer and president of the
Royal Society of Literature, made the
launching-speech, and he was supported
by John Parker, M.P. (chairman of the
Fabian Society), Lady Astor, Ivor Brown
(editor of the “Observer” and chairman
of the Appeal Committee), J. F. W.
Rathbone (secretary of the National
Trust), and actor Lewis Casson. Others
on a long list of sponsors included
Clement Attlee, A. P. Herbert, St. John
Ervine, Barry Jackson and Norman
Birkett.
The fund had a target of £250,000. It
closed a year later with less than £lOOO
in hand.
This colossal flop was probably not
due to a lack of appreciation of Shaw’s
work; rather was it an acknowledge-
ment of what Shaw had achieved. It was
somewhat incongruous to talk of sub-
sidising young playwrights, authors and
musicians to honor the memory of a man
who, when himself a young playwright,
author and music-critic, had to make his
own way in an alien London, and did it
so successfully that his will was proved
for £716,000. It was similarly unreal to
ask people to dip into their pockets to
finance a repertory-company to produce
Shaw’s plays when they knew (hat
repertory-companies the world over had
been producing them for decades. If
Shaw craved any memorial apart from
the literary immortality he did not doubt
was his due, it was probably the new
alphabet (still to be invented) which he
wanted to see replace the present one
(which he insisted on calling “Dr. John-
son’s alphabet”).
Proposed British Alphabet
TN his will Shaw bequeathed his resi-
A duary estate as a trust-fund to finance
inquiries that would lead to an estimate
of total amount of time and labor lost in
the English-speaking world through the
use of the present alphabet and “to add
where possible estimates of the loss of
income in British and American
currency.” Other clauses provided that
the trust-fund should defray the expenses
incidental to the launching, advertising
and propaganda of a “Proposed British
Alphabet,” and also the cost of employ-
ing a phonetic expert
> to transliterate my play entitled Androcles
and the Lion into the proposed British
Alphabet, assuming the pronunciation to
resemble that recorded of his Majesty
our late King George V and sometimes
described as Northern English.
Androcles was then to be published
with the two versions opposite each
other, page by page, and a glossary of
the two alphabets at the end. Copies,
said the will, were to be sent to public
libraries in the British Isles, the British
Commonwealth, the American States
(North and South) and to national
libraries everywhere in that order.
Charity or Politics?
OPELLING-REFORM by means of a
simple phonetic alphabet had long
been one of Shaw’s pet hobbies. He had
advocated it for years; had appealed to
Governments and Government depart-
ments, and had written letters to “The
Times.” The bequest was an attempt to
see whether the dead hand could succeed
where the living man had failed —a
Shavian paradox which must have given
the old jester a grim chuckle.
But the law puts limits on the power
of the dead hand, and it wasn’t long after
Shaw’s death that the British Museum
and the Royal Academy of Dramatic
Art (the joint residuary legatees with the
National Gallery of Ireland) challenged
the trust clauses of the will. They had
to wait quite a while for a verdict, but
on February 27, 1957, Mr. Justice Har-
man ruled in the Chancery Division that
the trust “was not for such a purpose as
the law regards as charitable, but was
rather analogous to trusts for political
purposes and was therefore invalid.”
It is obvious that the trust proposed by
G.B.S. was not for charitable purposes ;
that it should be deemed political is not
so easy to follow. It can only be assumed
that this is due to Shaw’s insistence, both
in his will and in his writings on the
subject, on the economic argument for
his reform, and that his Honor equated
economics with politics.
However, the matter did not end there.
I. J. Pitman; Conservative M.P. for Bath
—a friend of G.B.S. and an advocate of
spelling-reform—and the Shaw Society
raised funds for an appeal against the
judgment, and on December 19 last the
Court of Appeal sanctioned a compro-
mise whereby £B3OO would be set aside
for carrying-out the proposals for
alphabetical reform and the residue
would be released to the three bodies
named in the will.
As a result of this the Public Taistee
advertised in “The Times” on February
28 a competition with a prize of £5OO
sterling “for a design of an alphabet of at
least 40 letters as described in George
Bernard Shaw’s will.”
Sixteen of the letters must be vowel-
signs and each letter must represent a
single sound. Intending designers will
be supplied with full particulars, includ-
ing hints compiled by phonetic experts
co-opted by the Public Trustee, on send-
ing a foolscap, self-addressed envelope,
with postage-coupons for 4yd. stg., to the
Public Trustee, Kingsway, London,
W.C.2.
No Cranks Wanted!
YI/DULD-BE supplanters of Dr. John-
son’s alphabet should first examine
their consciences to see whether they
belong to any of the classes of cranks
Shaw felt “must be disqualified from
participation at all costs”:
Persons who want to force everybody
to spell in the same way on the ground
that their way is right and every other
way wrong; advocates of spelling-reform,
simplified spelling and all attempts to make
the Phoenician alphabet do the work of a
British one. . .- . Universal-language and
universal - script merchants; reporting-
shorthand experts who can write 150 words
a minute by code without spelling and
assume that the sole object of a new
alphabet must be to enable everyone to do
the same; perfectionists who will not
consent to anything that cannot do every-
thing.
Nor is it any use expecting to make a
fortune from a new ABC. The prize of
£5OO stg. includes the transfer to the
Pubic Trustee of all copyright and
patent rights ; that official, in accordance
with his instructions, will then make the
alphabet freely available to the English-
speaking world.
The rest of the £14,300 the Public
Trustee proposes to use to carry-out the
other provisions of the trust, so it seems
likely that some time next year —the
competition closes on January 1, 1959 —-
one of the entries submitted will be
approved by the Public Trustee and his
experts as worthy of the £5OO stg. and of
being styled the British Alphabet.
It is also very likely that within a
reasonable time Shaw’s wish will be
respected and a library edition of
Androcles and the Lion published in the
new letters “by photo-lithography or any
other method that may serve in the
absence of printers’ types.”
But one may be pardoned for thinking
that the probability of any other book
being published in the same style in the
foreseeable future is most Pygmalion
unlikely.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND ITS
RED MILL RUM.
Sydney Racing
Straight Draw isn’t likely to
get into his next long-distance
handicap with much less than
9.12. As stated here on Feb.
19, connections were given an
open invitation to race him in
the Sydney Cup when the
handicapper allotted him 8.13
after his wins in the A.J.C.
Metropolitan with 7.13 and in
the Melbourne Cup with 8.5.
Naturally racegoers who
study figures quickly picked him
as the likely Cup winner, and
Straight Draw scored with
something in hand. Starting at
10 to 9 on, he beat Caranna
(9 to 1) and Pushover (7 to 1),
covering the two miles in 3.22,
smart time and close to the
race-record set in 1941 by
Lucrative, 3.20|.
“Cups jockey” Noel Mc-
Growdie, who rode Straight
Draw, won the first leg
of the autumn double on
Grenoble. The winning combi-
nation was backed from 125 to
1 to 7 to 1 (Doncaster day).
It was McGrowdie’s third
Sydney Cup, earlier successes
being on Opulent and Bank-
stream. McGrowdie had a
nasty fall from Infanta on the
third day of the meeting.
• • #
Feature of the A.J.C.’s
autumn meeting was the treble
success of champion three-
year-old colt Tulloch. Wins
in the St. Leger (If mile), All
Aged Stakes (one mile) and the
Queen Elizabeth Stakes (If
mile) made his total for the
season 14, which equalled the
record of Ajax and Phar Lap.
New Zealander Mainbrace
won a record 15 races in a
season in the Dominion.
Syntax, as a three-year-old,
won 14 in N.Z., while that
great mare of earlier times
Desert Gold once had 14 con-
secutive successes in the same
season.
Gloaming and Desert Gold
each won 19 successive races,
Ajax 18, Mainbrace 17,
Carbine 15 and Bernborough
15, but all these series were
spread over more than one
season. Tulloch has now won
£66,148, and next season
should become Australia’s
greatest money-winner. If he
returns to his best form after
his winter spell he should top
Redcraze’s record of £71,481.
Tulloch could also become
winner of the greatest number
of races in succession.
Leading Randwick trainer
T. J. Smith is fortunate to
have had two top winners,
Redcraze and Tulloch, in his
stables. Racegoers have been
most impressed by the
thorough understanding
between Tulloch and his
jockey George Moore. It
would seem Tulloch could be
ridden with a silken thread!
He hasn’t been out of a place
for 21 wins, seven seconds and
one third —a remarkable per-
formance.
Theodric kept the Ezra
Norton colors flying—they
have been much in the lime-
light lately—when he defeated
the favorite, Commedia, in the
A.J.C. Final Handicap. Both
the winner and runner-up
lacked experience at a mile-
and-a-quarter, but their race-
form had been sound.
Theodric had finished third
and Commedia fifth in the
Doncaster Handicap, which
proved an excellent pointer.
Theodric won a seven-
furlongs Graduation Stakes
at Rosehill in December, and
before that had won at pro-
vincial fixtures. His first Rand-
wick success was impressive.
Costing llOOgns. as a yearling
at the 1955 N.Z. sales,
Theodric, bred to stay, is by
Boissier (imp.) from Ringway
by Fairway from Ferry Pool
by Hyperion—a staying back-
ground.
On his performance in the
Fernhill Handicap, the only
mile-race for two-year olds in
Sydney, Eastern Song, from
the T. J. Smith stable, should
develop into a class three-year-
old, and already there is talk
of him being an A.J.C. Derby
prospect. Prince Darius won
this race last year w r ith 9.9 and
went on to much better things.
Eastern Song, a brother to
Colorado Drawl, was bred in
N.Z., and is by Marco Polo
II (imp.) from Sona. His only
three starts have resulted in
two wins and a third.
Though favored by ideal
weather-conditions on each of
the four days of its autumn
racing carnival, the A.J.C.
meeting attracted only 157,000
against 200,000 last year.
Obviously the jackpot-tote
hasn’t proved the magic draw-
card. Many investors must be
fed-up with the bulk of the
money going regularly into the
pockets of a few patrons.
These big winners appear to
have uncanny luck, judgment,
information or what-have-you
which helps them to pick
winners. A big “bank” is a
handy start, too, and gives
them the woQd on the small
punter. The total pool on
each of the three days—there
was no jackpot on the Wednes-
day— must have disappointed
the controllers.
The A.J.C. needs to revise
programmes to give punters
more betting opportunities and
should also revert to a ss.
unit for all tote betting. Its
members must know there are
more small than big punters.
The club should invite, before
the spring meetings come
round, leading trainers, press-
men with long experience, and
others closely identified with
the sport for a round-table dis-
cussion on falling attendances
and other important aspects of
racing.
• • • •
Pinza, a winner of the English
Derby, was represented at the
Sydney yearling-sales by a
striking bay colt from Method
(imp.) by Orthodox from Vine-
yard by Nearco, who topped
the prices at the sale. His
7100gns.—buyer was Frank
Packer was an Australian
record. The previous best was
6750gn5., paid 30 years ago
for Dominant, who wasn’t
much of a racehorse. On the
opening day of the sales 160
lots realised 161,120gn5., also
an Australian record, while the
first day’s average, 1007gns.,
was the highest ever.
• • • •
When Praetorian was sold as
a yearling at the 1955 Rand-
wick auction for 650gns., it
wasn’t anticipated that it would
take him three years to win a
race. But it did—and his<#irst
win was in the First A.J.C.
Maiden on All Aged Stakes
day. Praetorian, sho started
favorite, had been placed at
three earlier starts, and his win
was expected. The gelding is by
Abbot’s Fell (imp.) from Fair
Recruit (imp.) by Thorough-
fare and belongs to the family
which produced Pantheon
(imp.) and Silver Standard.
Yahabeebe, a brilliant N.Z.
mare, is to come to Australia
again. Twelve months ago she
was beaten at odds-on at her
only start here—a Warwick
Farm sprint won by Heroic
Victory. She finished second,
and then was returned to the
Dominion. She has since per-
formed well, and at her latest
outing, on Saturday, won the
Great Northern Challenge
Stakes at Ellerslie, covering the
seven furlongs in 1.22 f, a


THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England )
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WALES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 4387 (2 lines).
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
Dominion record, and a frac-
tion of a second outside Aus-
tralia’s best, 1.22, set by
Freckles at Randwick in 1942.
Yahabeebe won by six lengths
and was having her last run
before being shipped to Sydney.
* * *
—and Melbourne
One of the most confident
betting - plunges launched
against Melbourne book-
makers for a long time went
astray when Sydney colt New
Trend ran out of a place in
the first heat of the six-furlongs
Maiden Two-year-old at Caul-
field. Racegoers who knew
the colt had raced poorly at
its two Sydney starts were
surprised to find it opening
favorite at threes, but even
more astonished to see it
backed down to 6 to 4. The
“grapevine” had it that New
Trend had matched paces with
star Sydney filly Wiggle over
four furlongs. The colt
showed all the speed common
to the Newtown Wonder stock,
and led clearly to the straight,
but then it began to shorten
stride and finished a poor
fifth. The race went to High
Peal, a handsome chestnut colt
by Bob Major (imp.) from
Vaninka. He is a strong colt
resembling the ill-fated Sand-
hurst, the best son of Bob
Major yet to race.
Second division of the
Maiden Two-year-old went to
Hoogli. This page recently
noted that Hoogli showed a
lot of promise in finishing third
behind Society Beau. The
field the gelding defeated at
Caulfield was not of much
account, but he scored easily
and had to overcome a couple
of bad checks before he got
a crack at the leaders. Hoogli
(by St. Magnus from Worro-
long) is a full-brother to St.
Joel, one of Melbourne’s best
sprinters of recent years.
Nevertheless, Hoogli shapes
like a stayer. St. Magnus has
got some good stayers, notably
Morse Code, and Hoogli will
certainly win over a longer
journey than the six furlongs
of last Saturday’s race.
The Orrong Handicap—a
six-furlongs event for two-
year-olds brought together
Melbourne’s two best “second-
string” youngsters, Planetoid
and Monasterevan. In what
was regarded as a match-race,
Planetoid went out a 2-to-l-
on favorite, with Monasterevan
two’s against; and in a dream-
result for bookmakers, both
were defeated. The winner was
the Adelaide-trained gelding
Naecon. Actually, Naecon
was lucky to win. He scored
by an inch or two from
Monasterevan, who was
buffeted badly by Planetoid
as the field swung for home.
Nevertheless, it was a good
run by Naecon, whose record
now is three wins from four
starts. Bred in N.S.W., he is
by Confessor from Naejohn.
Adelaide businessman G.
Sullivan gave 3000gns. for him
after the gelding had won at
his first start. Next-up
Naecon established an S.A.
record when he ran four
furlongs in 47 3 / lOsec. He
could do well in the sprint
events for three-year-olds next
spring.
Those racegoers who backed
Proponder from 40 to 1 to
16 to 1 would have cheerfully
exchanged their tickets for the
stake-value when they saw the
four-year-old gelding son of
Propontis gallop for a mile
after unseating his rider prior
to the start of the
Caulfield Sprint. And yet
Proponder made hacks of a
good-class field to win the race
all the way in the smart time of
1.4 f. Proponder has won a
string of races in the country,
but last Saturday’s success was
his first in the city.
Mentone trainer Tony Lopes
must have had fond memories
of former champion mare
Chicquita as King Nero went
past the post the easiest of
winners in the 10-furlongs
Neerim Handicap at Caulfield.
Lopes trains King Nero, who
was the first foal of Chicquita,
the champion who lifted him
from obscurity to the front
rank of Victorian trainers. It
would be extraordinary if
King Nero were not a good
performer. The black gelding
is out of Chicquita by
Empyrean, most successful sire
in Victoria this season. A lot
of the credit for King Nero’s
win is due to apprentice Brian
Hall. When Black and White
skipped away to a long lead
early in the race, Hall sooled
King Nero along. At the turn,
his mount was the only runner
close enough to run to the
leader, and at the post King
Nero was a comfortable
winner from Black and White
with the rest of the field
straggling.
A good-natured gesture by
popular owner Bill Balloch had
its own reward when Gay
Saba easily won the Brighton
Welter at Caulfield. Balloch
gave the mount on Gay Saba
to young Stan Paul, who is
apprenticed to Snowy Wolters,
the colt’s trainer. Young Paul
has a special regard for Gay
Saba and cares for him like a
pet. The colt certainly raced
kindly for the lad, being close
to the lead until the straight-
entrance, where he bounded
away to win at his ease. As
he trotted the colt back, Paul
looked as proud and pleased
as if he had won a Melbourne
Cup. In the spring, Gay Saba
ran some good races, winning
the Moonee Valley Stakes and
finishing second to Tulloch in
the Caulfield Guineas. On
Saturday’s run, he is back to
his best, and will be hard to
beat in any race up to a mile.
* * *
Traffing
At Harold Park on Saturday
night, before a crowd of 19,000,
champion pacing mare Sibelia
(2-to-l favorite) ended a run
of minor placings in rich
handicaps when she con-
vincingly won the £5OOO Lord
Mayor’s Cup from the 12yd.
mark, from Highland Jan
(33 to 1) and New Zealander
Gentry (20 to 1). The race
caused a minor sensation when
most of the field of 11 were
involved in a scrimmage round-
ing the bend into the straight in
the final lap, leaving five horses
and drivers sprawled across the
track.
In a very roughly-run race,
the accident occurred when
Determined Boy (running
second to Sibelia, who then
had a commanding lead of
several lengths rounding the
turn) faltered and fell. Malniri,
Crown Law, Victory Dale and
King Ranji fell over him.
Fortunately none of the
drivers or horses was seriously
injured.
Sibelia was ninth in the
field of 11 in the early stages,
but made a fast run into second
place early in the second lap,
shot clear with half-a-lap to
go, and led into the straight
by several lengths. Even had
the accident not occurred
Sibelia would have won, but
there may have been a
difference in the minor placings.
Sibelia has won £14,000 in
stakes since being taken-over by
Jack Watts 14 months ago, and
gave Walts his third successive
Lord Mayor’s Cup.
Favorite Star Hill made it
three in a row when he won
the final of the £ISOO Carnival
Handicap by one-and-a-quarter
lengths from Silver City (15
to 1). Second-favorite at 9
to 4, Bangaroo Lass finished
a length away in third place
after having broken shortly
after the start.
Starting at 3 to 1 on,
brilliant pacer Diabolo Don
won his seventh successive race
at Harold Park when he got
up in the last stride to win
the final of the £2OOO Easter
Handicap by ha!f-a-head from
Kildare’s Star (50 to 1) and
New Memory (40 to 1).
Usually reliable, Diabolo Don
broke at the start and had
to run the race the hard way.
Diabolo Don has now been
elevated to higher company and
will race in next Friday’s
Invitation Stakes, after which
he will go for a well-earned
spell.
+ 4
Sundry Sports
Melbourne’s 1958 V.F.L.
competition began on Satur-
day, to mark the
of the centennial year of Aus-
tralian Rules football. Over
150,000 saw the,six games, and
the competition got away with
a real bang. In the match-of-
the-day Melbourne defeated
Carlton 11.13-9.11. The Demons
got off to a flying start, with
rover lan Ridley getting three
quick goals, and they led all
through ; but Carlton, not
discredited, finished gamely,
putting on 4.2 to 1.6 in the last
quarter.
In the other games Colling-
wood outplayed Footscray in
every department, and won by
54 points—l2.ll-4.5; ’Scray
didn’t score in the last quarter.
Essendon, with a sound centre-
line and strong defence, crushed
Geelong, which finished at the
bottom of the list last year,


Faith in ihc
Future
* m
With the opening of the Atomic Energy
Commission’s nuclear research reactor at Lucas
Heights, near Sydney, Australia comes actively into
the age when amazing new power will be shed upon
this continent to speed its development.
HIFAR (High Flux Australian Reactor), as it
is known, had a low-power testing in January.
Now, using 25 fuel elements, it is to go to work as
one of the most intense sources of atomic radiation
in the world.
It will enable us to produce all the isotopes we
need for a widening number of humane and
industrial uses, and to export them in surplus.
The significance of the station, however, is in
the fact that it has been designed purely for
research ; that, I think, is a sign that Australia is
sighting its atomic programme wisely.
All we do now towards giving ourselves an
efficient atomic power system must be related to the
continuing advances in nuclear research and practice
overseas. By -agreements with Britain, the United
States and Canada we share in the free world’s
best knowledge in peaceful uses of the atom. To
that interchange, scientists of the Australian Atomic
Energy Commission, and in our universities, are
making an impressive contribution.
But a special problem arises for Australia in
the adaptable use of nuclear energy. Until now,
the geography of this country—the lie of its coal
beds, the run of its rivers—has dictated the power
that could be tapped for outright expansion.
Where HIFAR and the laboratories around it
will serve us well is in the development of high-
temperature gas-cooled reactors which do not
require large volumes of water for their cooling.
That should bring closer the time when small,
economic nuclear plants can be taken in to energise
the life of Northern and inland Australia.
For that reason alone —but there are others—
we can salute the men whose faith and initiative
have led us up to the opening of Lucas Heights.
13.17-8.10. Fitzroy, which
piled-on 6.4-1.1 in the first
quarter, did what it liked to
North, 23.21-5.9 ; ’Roy finished
second-last in 1957. In a grip-
ping finish Hawthorn just got
there by a point from St. Kilda,
11.14-11.13, and, with both sides
having a like number of shots
at goal, Richmond comfortably
beat South, 17.18-12.23.
* * *
Rugby Union club and
inter-State games in Australia
this season are being played
under new rules which allow
a player ’to pick-up the ball
after someone has been tackled
instead of it having to be
rucked ; and the result has been
a speeding-up and brightening
of games, though scoring has
in general not been any
greater. In the second round
of Sydney’s Rugby Union, on
Saturday, St. George, last
year’s premiers, just got there,
19-17, against Manly, which
slackened-up after being in
front; the young Randwick
side, which has only three of
last year’s regular players,
including the present skipper
(Bob Outterside), had a close
tussle with Gordon, 12-11 ;
University thrashed Drum-
moyne, 31-5; Eastwood beat
North, 11-3; and Eastern
Suburbs was too fast for
Parramatta, 21-11.
“Selja”: Sydney Rugby
Union’s “new-look” team,
Northern Suburbs, led by
Wallaby Rod Phelps and with
another Wallaby, John
Thornett, in the side, went
under on Saturday to another
rejuvenated team, Eastwood,
at Eastwood. Both teams
finished round the bottom of
the table last year. Neither
Phelps nor Thornett did any-
thing in particular, apart from
one neat breakthrough and
brilliant centring kick by
Phelps, which deserved to be
capitalised. Apropos, several
Sydney clubs are now number-
ing their second- and third-
grade teams 1 to 15, instead of
carrying on from 16 as was
once general. That’s all right,
but when a replacement is
needed for the first-grade side,
some other number should be
allotted him, with notice given
in the programme or over a
loudspeaker. At Eastwood on
Saturday North played with
two No. ll’s and two No. 13’s
in the forwards for practically
the whole game.
* * *
In the second round of
Sydney’s Rugby League,
Balmain defeated Manly 21-15,
with fullback Keith Barnes,
as in Balmain’s first-round win,
being a match-winner with the
boot. Tigers’ left-winger, Des
Horne, scored two fine tries
before having to go off with
an injured collarbone
Balmain, which finished with
10 men, is already getting more
than its share of injuries. St.
George, even without captain-
coach Kearney, annihilated
“glamor” team, West, 36-5,
with veteran forward Harry
Bath kicking nine goals.
Another thrashing was admini-
stered by North to lowly
Parramatta, 39-17. Newtown,
all through the second half a
man short, met greater opposi-
tion than it bargained for from
Canterbury, 12-8, and, in a
dull game on Sunday, South
Sydney beat East 16-7.
* * *
The “Advertiser” £lOOO Golf
Tournament, played at Koo-
yonga (S.A.) course, went to
N.S.W. professional Kel Nagle,
who finished the 72-hole course
with a total of 279. This
equalled Norman von Nida’s
72-hole record set in 1954.
Second place went to South
Australian pro. Murray Crafter,
while outstanding 17-year-old
S.A. amateur Brian Tuohy
finished third.
* * $
Two Heads-of-the-River:—
Sydney's, rowed on the Nepean,
was won by St. Ignatius, in an
exciting finish, by a quarter-of-a-
length from Shored with last year’s
winner, High, in third place. It
was Riverview’s first win of the
eights—a good show; Riverview
tends too often to be well down
among the also-rans in G.P.S.
sports. The time, Bmin. 10 2-ssec.,
was exactly the same as laist year’s.
St. Joseph’s was very unlucky,
when the No. 4 crabbed and fell
out of the boat about half-way
through.
High won the first and second
fours, Grammar the thirds, and
St. Ignatius the fourths.
Brisbane’s, rowed on the Milton
Reach of the Brisbane River, was
won, also in a very close finish,
by Southport, by half-a-length from
Gregory Terrace and, another half-
length away, Brisbane Grammar.
Southport was second last year,
behind Brisbane Boys’ College,'
which had won the race for the
past two years.
* * *
“Ecir”: “Veryl’s” par. on
featherweight Joe Grazziano
k.0.-ing Ray Keith in llsec. at
Melbourne Stadium recently
(B. 2/4/’5B) stirs a memory.
Fritz Maki v. Fritz Holland,
scheduled for 20 rounds in the
no-preliminary, no - emergency
fight days at Melbourne
Stadium, when a ringside seat
cost £2. Maki poised on the
seat-edge awaiting the bell,
which was still sounding as he
ran to collect a right from
Holland, in the latter’s corner.
Including the count, elapsed
time llsec. . . . and so history
repeats.


WHEN YOU VALUE
Old Photographs
why trust them to door to door
canvassers? Send them to a tirm
of 20 years’ standing. We will
quote size, coloring, framing,
spotting, etc.
SEND YOUR PHOTOS TO US
PROGRESS PHOTOS,
Midway Arcade,
256 Collins St., Melbourne,
Victoria.
DUPLICATOR
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
Has all the finest features
of high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
"National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans,
Music, etc.
Built entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing. Agents—*
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W. C. Penfold & Co. Pty. Ltd.
« Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
• > Vardon Price Ltd.
• Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy The Vision Splendid, by
Tom Ronan. —6694.
To buy “Australian Quarterly”
(vols. 1-6); also King and his
Dominion Governors, by H. V.
Evatt. —6695.
Does Anybody Know?
Whence springs the quotation,
“the precocious flow of fetid
imagery,” from “Stalky & Co.”?
I’ve got an idea it’s a Kipling
original, but my son thinks other-
wise: he plumps for Byron. Who,
if either of us, is right?
Information Supplied
(From Clem Lack, Q.): W. Carr
Boyd (“Pot Jostler”) was the son
of Dr. Carr Boyd, a Brisbane
medico; his descriptions of out-
back life under that pen-name were
a feature of the old “Queens-
lander” in the ’eighties. There are
references to him *in Gordon
Buchanan’s Packhorse and Water-
hole. According to Buchanan,
“Pot Jostler’s” startling and
extravagant style became too
breezy for the editor of the
“Queenslander”: an editorial foot-
note rejected his story of a jealous
blackfellow as being “too racy.”
Boyd was skilled in aboriginal
lore, and reputed to have had his
nose pierced to hold the tribal
bone. He was regarded as an
authority on the aboriginal
corroboree.
In the mining and mustering
camps he was a welcome visitor:
a big man with a commanding
personality, with his rollicking
songs and tall yarns, told in a deep
bass voice, he was the life and soul
of many an evening gathering
around the campfire.
Gordon Buchanan relates that
once, at Flora Valley, someone was
describing the slow advance of
floodwaters in lower Sturt Creek
after heavy rain had fallen at its
source. This person remarked on
the absorbent nature of the deep
black soil and the depth of the
immense fissures scoring the mile-
wide channel. Carr Boyd roared
in his booming voice: “By gad,
you can’t have anything here to
compare with Queensland plains
for absorbing water. .You should
see Cooper’s Creek, as I have, come
down in flood fifty miles wide and
fifty feet high, pouring into a
crack for two hours! That was
a sight!”
Buchanan was with him in 1887,
riding from Wyndham to Hall’s
Creek, when they met a party of
disappointed returning diggers,
They had relied on an early and
glowing report of the goldfield
made by Carr Boyd and threat-
ened to lynch him on sight.
Buchanan and - Boyd ended one
stage at the very waterhole where
the disgruntled diggers who were
after Boyd’s scalp had encamped.
Although he was unknown to them
sight, the interchange of news
soon revealed the identity of the
big fellow with the big voice,
Accusations and threats began to
fl y» but b y a mixture of blustering
"I Want me first wife transferred to me hack—and this
one takes her place.”
challenge and excuses Carr Boyd
gradually disarmed the militants.
Then, round the campfire, he so
entertained them with his tall yarns
that every vestige of ill-will was
swept away.
Information Sought
Brief information on the career
of British surgeon Sir Victor
Horsley ?
Born at Kensington, London, in
1857, he studied surgery and
neurology; from 1884 to 1890 he
was superintendent of Brown
Institution; in 1885, secretary to
the Royal Commission on Hydro-
phobia. Next year he became sur-
geon to the National Hospital for
Paralysis and Epilepsy; five years
later he was Fuilerian professor at
the Royal Institution, holding-down
the job for three years. President
of the Pathological Section of the
British Medical Association,
1892-93 ; professor of pathology at
the University College, 1893-96.
From 1906 he was Emeritus Pro-
fessor of clinical surgery and
consulting-surgeon at University
College Hospital. Horsley was
one of the leaders in the medical
crusade against alcoholism; he
wrote, in collaboration with Dr.
Mary Sturge, Alcohol and the
Human Body (1907). His other
works include Experiments upon
the Functions of the Cerebral
Cortex (1885), Brain Surgery
(1887) and Hydrophobia and its
Treatment (1888). He died in 1916.
* * * *
Could I have a few details of
the £3OOO TV Play Contest to bp
held this year ?
Promotors and sponsors of the
contest are General Television
Corporation Pty., Ltd. (GTV
Channel 9 of Melbourne), Amal-
gamated Television Services Pty.,
Ltd. (ATN Channel 7 of Sydney),
and The Shell Company of Aus-
tralia, Ltd. Entrants, who may
submit more than one MS., must
be persons born or domiciled in
Australia; MSS. must be sub-
mitted exclusively for the Austra-
lian £3OOO TV Play Contest, and
may not have been submitted for
any other competition. Each play
must be accompanied by a synop-
sis of the plot, and plays should
be of one hour’s duration, suit-
able for presentation to an adult
audience. Sponsors will be
entitled to sole performing- and
production-rights for television
purposes in all prizewinning plays:
authors of such plays will receive
net proceeds of any royalties
received by the sponsors for any
of their plays exhibited on TV out-
side Australia. Complete impar-
tiality will be observed in the judg-
ing of the entries; prizes are as
follows: for original works, £1250
first-prize, £750 second-prize, £4OO
third-prize; for adaptation, £3OO
first-prize, £2OO second-prize, £lOO
third-prize. All entries, which
must be lodged not later than
July 30 of this year, should be
addressed either to “£3OOO TV Play
Contest, c/o GTV Channel 9,
22-46 Bendigo Street, Richmond,
Victoria,” or to “£3OOO TV Play
Contest, c/o ATN Channel 7,
Television Centre, Epping, N.S.W.”
* * * *
Brief account of the sinking of
the Jervis Bay in World War II ?
Jervis Bay, of 13,837 tons, built
in 1922, was one of the Bay liners
on the England-Australia run
before the war; at the beginning
of the war she was turned into an
armed merchant-cruiser. Com-
manded by Captain E- S. Fogarty
Fegen, she sailed in November,
1940, as escort of a convoy of 38
ships from Halifax (Nova Scotia).
On Nov. 5 the German pocket-
battleship Admiral Scheer appeared
on the horizon. The order was
given for the convoy to scatter, but
Admiral Scheer began to sink ship
after ship. Fogarty Fegen realised
that the only way to save the con-
voy was to sacrifice Jervis Bay,
which was no possible match lor
the much more heavily-armed
German ; and he began to close-in.
Jervis Bay was soon ablaze, with
all her guns silenced, but she con-
tinued straight ahead in the path
of fire. She sank with the loss of
198 men, including Fegen, who
was posthumously awarded the
V.C.; 65 survivors were later
picked up. Through Jervis Bay's
action, one of the most gallant in
naval warfare, 33 ships of the
convoy escaped. The story of the
action is well toid in J. E.
Macdonnell’s Valiant Occasions.
Brief Answers
H.A.: (1) Since the author’s
work is still in copyright, a royalty
of 10 per cent, should normally
be paid to the author’s wife as the
copyright - owner thereof. She
might, of course, agree to share
these royalties with you because
of your editorial work; she could
then instruct the publishers to pay
the amounts due to you and to
her. On the other hand, the pub-
lishers might be willing to pay you
a fee for your work, according to
the amount of work involved and
the value of the book in sales, and
also pay 10 per cent, royalty to
the copyright owner. (2) In antho-
logies it is usual for the author
of each item included (or his heirs)
to receive a fee. The editor, too,
is normally paid a fee, not a
royalty. But a book of stories all
by the same author could scarcely
be called an anthology, since only
one copyright-owner could be
involved. What you suggest would
be equivalent to buying from the
author’s wife for the purpose of
your collection the copyright of the
stories you wish to include....
8.J.: Queensland Sugar Board


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO JANE MORRISON late of Lane
Cove in the State of New South Wales.
—TAKE NOTICE that BETTY MARIEA
JOHNSON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 494 of 1958 against her
husband DON ARTHUR HERBERT
JOHNSON on the grounds of his
adultery with you You may apply to
the Court to be let in to defend the
charges if y'ou so desire and obtain a
copv of the petition without charge
from MESSRS. ADRIAN TWIGG & CO.,
Solicitors, 160 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
THE NORTHERN TERRITORY OF
AUSTRALIA
IN THE SUPREME COURT.
No. 136 of 1957.
BETWEEN : JOHN REGINALD
STEWART, Plaintiff, and BETTY
LILLIAN STEWART, Defendant.
To: Fred Renals, Sydney, New South
Wales.
NOTICE is hereby given to Fred Renals
whose last known address was at
Sydney, New South Wales, that John
Reginald Stewart of Darwin in the
Northern Territory of Australia, Petty
Officer, Royal Australian Navy, has
issued a writ in the Supreme Court of
the Northern Territory in an action in
which John Reginald Stewart claims
an order for divorce from' his wife on
the ground of her adultery with Fred
Renals, but is not claiming costs or
damages against him. If Fred Renals
desires to be heard in opposition to
•the claim for the order, he must file an
appearance in the office of the Master of
the Supreme Court of the Northern
Territory within 21 day's of the last
insertion of . this advertisement other-
wise he may be found guilty of adultery
in his absence, but no costs or damages
will be awarded against him if he does
not file an appearance.
JOHN MERITY, Roslyn Court,
Darwin. Solicitor for the Plaintiff.
JUST ONE BRUSHING WITH
Colgate
Dental
Cream
o+
YOUR
BREATH
m
r
WHILE IT
CLEANS
YOUR
TEETH
STOPS TOOTH DECAY BEST!
■■ ■■■'■
Scientific tests over a 2-year period show a startling reduction
in tooth decay for those who brushed their teeth with
Colgate’s right after eating! In fact X-rays showed no new
cavities whatever for almost 2 out of 3 people.
'
Keeps children's teeth healthy
Scientific tests showed that the Colgate
way of brushing teeth right after eating
stopped decay for more people than ever
before reported in all dentifrice history.
Your teeth are whiter brighter and
you are assured of round-the-clock pro-
tection against decay-causing enzymes.
Colgate Dental Cream is Australia’s largest
America’s largest the world's largest selling dental cream
Get the family economy size and save up to 2/2.
W230B
chairman, P. J- Donnollan,
announced in January that four
bulk - handling sugar - terminals
would be operating in Queensland
by the start of the 1959 crushing-
season. They are the Mackay ter-
minal (opened last year), Bunda-
berg and Lucinda Point, due to be
completed this season, and Towns-
ville, due to open in June, 1959.
K.H,: The Dreadnought of the
Darling, by C. E. W. Bean, was
hrst published in London in 1911.
Its first Australian edition was pub-
lished in 1956. In his preface to
the 1956 edition, Dr. Bean states
that very few changes were made
from the original text —the account
of the schemes to lock the Dar-
ling, being now of historical
interest only, has been shortened,
and some statistics omitted. A
new chapter, “Postscript,” sum-
marises the end of navigation on
the Darling and some other
changes W.W.R.: Naturally it
befalls some individuals to decide
on aspects of newspaper policy.
But quite erroneous views exist on
the way newspaper “barons” and
other small groups can dictate on
any and every issue. As an
example, the Herald and Weekly
Times, Ltd. (according to the
statement of the company’s vice-
chairman, G. A. Caro, at the
annual meeting last December), is
owned by more than 7400 share-
holders. The shares, he said, were
owned by so many people that
there was no outstanding proprietor-
ship which could dictate the policy
of the group’s papers E.S.: Sir
Douglas Copland is now Principal
of the Australian Administrative
Staff College J.K.: According
to figures given in the House of
Representatives last April, deaths
from road-accidents in Australia
were 1426 in 1938-39 and 2119 in
1955-56 B.McA.: Professor F.
S. Cotton, who died in August,
1955, aged 65, became famous for
his scientific training of Australian
athletes; he had earlier been a
champion swimmer, applying his
theories first to himself. After
graduating from Sydney University
in 1912 he became a lecturer in
physiology, and from 1946 to
1955 was Professor of Physiology
at Sydney University. He also
invented the “anti-G” suit, used
in War II to overcome the tendency
of fighter-pilots to “black-out” in
a dive... .J.W.: (1) Lester Pearson,
former Canadian External Affairs
Minister, was awarded the Nobel
Peace Prize for 1957. (2) Georgi
Malenkov succeeded Stalin, on his
death in March, 1953, as Chair-
man of the Council of Ministers of
the U.S.S.R., but resigned in
February, 1955. He was succeeded
by Marshal Bulganin, now in
his turn replaced by Khrush-
chev... .S.R.: “Doctor” books
by Richard Gordon are Doctor
in the House, Doctor at Sea,
Doctor at Large and, his
latest, Doctor in Love, all avail-
able from Angus and Robertson,
Ltd., 89 Castlereagh Street, Syd-
ney R.J.T.: (1) Tasmania has
an area of 26,215 square-miles.
(2) Hobart’s population is approx.
90,000; Launceston, approx.
50,000. (3) Launceston is 40 miles
up the Tamar River from its
estuary. (4) Write Tasmanian
Government Tourist and Immigra-
tion Department, corner Mac-
quarie Street and Murray Street,
Hobart.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
C.A.I. (Addis Ababa): Sorry;
no business... .G.S.F.: It has a
pleasant, mournful sound, without
saying anything that hasn’t been
said before... : We pub-
lished almost exactly the same har-
vesting-poem, a few weeks ag0....
R.R.: Even on so estimable a theme
as blowing-up Parliament that
poem is miles too long for u 5....
T.K.: Two moving lines from
“Tramp Talk:”:
It’s me bowels of compassion, the old
man said,
That’s why I left the city and fled.
G.P.: The dingo pup slipped
away from you... .R.H.S.: Doubt
if we could cope with “the
crescendo of ungovernable deluge”.
. ...V.G.W.: Honestly, now, did
you really go anywhere near the
Show? P.C.: There seems to
be a certain something in the end
of it J.C.: Suggest you run
over that motoring poem J.S.:
Afraid the only cure for drought-
poems is rain... .8.H.E.: Qne
mighty thought:
You ask, where are the Starlights and
Kellys of whom History tells ns
the story—■
Don’t you know that from time
immortal there are men to compete
with their glory?
They had names in their day of courage
and daring you ail will agree.
But the man who found Penicillin is
just as important to me.
M.D.: Ghost-towns have been
done to death... .D.M.: It should
be possible to write elusive poetry,
but yours is hardly there at a 11....
E. 8.: It contains one incontest-
able assertion: “Turkeys are not
sinister” F.P.: Jump on it....
W.D.: Avoid “mystic moments
transcient”.... R.G.P.: Prune and
polish “The Show, 1958,” and let’s
have a look at it in time for the
Show, 1959... .H.J.T.: No, she
wasn’t a witch; she was probably
a typiste... .0.J.M.: “Glimpse of
Suez” weak and watery... .A.D.:
The pun’s as old as Troy R.F.:
Love seems tp have made you a
little incoherent... .M. 8.: “Time’s
harsh bosom” doesn’t seem quite
the right metaphor for a sputnik.
....S.S.: “Not Croesus e’en with
all his fabled wealth. So thus the
ancient legend runs I trow”—but
why not talk naturally?... .C.E.8.:
But do you mean to suggest that
all politicians are not always
impeccably honest? This is
a'S toun d i n g....J.H.: A tiny
twinkle in “The Star”... .Another
J.H.: And a small glimmer in
“Waiting”... „L.D.: Trust that
your ambition to be a perform-
ing seal is realised E.F.
(Spain): It’s a bit empty and
indefinite... .A. 8.: Infinitesimal.
A.H.: “I have taken to writing
poetry. My friends say that l am
a dabbler.” You’ll have to be
a dab of a dabbler to get in here.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
INDONESIA
TNDONESIA’S civil war as
-*■ seen from London and New
York:
London “Time and Tide” :
“Moscow is becoming increas-
ingly involved in the civil war
and has already delivered four
ships to Java, while six more
are on the way; at the same
time the U.S.A. is making every
effort to avoid being implicated
at all. The rebels, who have
plenty of money, have tried
without success to buy arms in
Czechoslovakia, West Germany
and Sweden, in addition to
applying for surplus U.S. equip-
ment in Okinawa and Guam.'
In the Philippines the United
States, which had been trying
to dispose of war-surplus twin-
engined bombers, withdrew
them from the market when a
representative of the rebels
made an offer.
“Meanwhile the Communists,
who hold the balance of power
in Djakarta, are building up an
underground movement which
is developing into a hard-
hitting, compact army. The
anti-Communist rebels do not
aspire to rule Indonesia ; they
merely want Dr. Soekarno to
drop the Communists and to
co-operate with them in safe-
guarding Indonesia against a
Red takeovep.
“But Dr. Soekarno appears
to be the captive of Communist
schemers who will use him to
wipe-out all anti-Communist
opposition. They will then stage
a takeover themselves. Both
Washington and Canberra are
now facing-up to this possi-
bility, for there the danger
of a Communist Indonesia and
the consequent pressure on the
rest of South-east Asia is fully
recognised.”
* * *
New York “Herald Tribune":
“Whatever the outcome, those
who die in this war will con-
stitute a barrier to a genuine
union of the Indonesian islands.
Now that the existing divisions
among the Indonesian people
have been deepened by actual
hostilities, a legacy of bitter-
ness has been created to plague
whatever Government emerges
victorious.
“At best it would be difficult
to weld the many islands and
peoples of the archipelago into
a unit: even with overwhelm-
ing force it would be hard to
reduce each community to
acceptance of a single authority.
The possibility that Indonesia
will be split is greatly enhanced
by President Soekarno’s resort
to force.
“The Djakarta Government,
however, has not yet reached
the point of no return in its
policy of repression. It would
still be possible to grant the
insurgents’ demands ; to return
to constitutional government;
to grant a greater measure of
federalism to the outer islands ;
and to curb the nationalist
fanatics and the Communists
on Java.
“Then, if some economic
policies were instituted, Indo-
nesia might win both stability
and unity. But the present
course of the Government
promises only an intensification
of the chaos produced by
Soekarno’s experiments with
‘guided democracy’ and expro-
pnation of Dutch interests.”
* * *
“New York Times” : “It is
extremely doubtful that
Soekarno can assert full military
control over the entire archi-
pelago without massive help
from outside, in the form of
naval and air strength. Both
Soekarno and the rebel Premier
know this, and it is the obvious
reason for the latter’s anxiety
over possible Soviet interven-
tion. Some Soviet ships have
already been delivered to
Soekarno and what their cargo
was has not been disclosed.
“Ihe basic difficulty, more-
over, is not really susceptible
to military settlement. Even
the dispersal of the dissidents
would not give Soekarno any
real ground for a Government
by the people s mandate When
the rebels challenged Soekarno s
guided democracy and his
attitude toward Communist co-
operation, as wel as his neglect
of the outer islands tor the
benefit of Java, they knew they
were inviting military action
against them. On the other
hand, when Soekarno resorted
to force against the rebels he
must have crystallised, perma-
nently, their opposition to him.
Under no immediately conceiv-
able conditions can he hope to
win back their support.
—London “Daily Mirror"
“RATHER COLD FOR THIS TIME OF THE YEAR, ISN’T IT?"
“Soekarno has a long history
of obtaining a popular follow-
ing among his fellow country-
men. His friends call this
‘inspired leadership.’ His
enemies call it demagogy. By
either name it has been the
chief factor in keeping Soekarno
in power. But he is not a chief
executive by virtue of the free
expression of the will of all
the people. There are some
groups, such as the South
Moluccans, who have never
acknowledged his right to rule
in a unitary State. There are
others, such as the present
rebels in Sumatra and Celebes,
who obviously feel that the
courses of action that Soekarno
has taken or proposed are in
genuine violation of the
interests of a large part of the
archipelago.
“Popular ‘leadership’ in one
group, or on one island, is not
an adequate answer to this type
of complaint. Dictatorship,
however benevolent, is also no
answer, and Soekarno’s ‘guided
democracy’ certainly has the
earmarks of dictatorship in so
far as it seeks to do away with
organised political opposition.
Unless and until there is real
government by consent, and
consent freely given in a con-
stitutional way, the Indonesian
people are doomed to suffer
from continued strife.”
* * *
London “Economist “lf
the rebels are now quickly over-
run,* or driven into some
remote corner, the crushing of
their avowedly anti-Communist
movement could mean that the
strong Communist current in
Java would then flow over the
outlying islands.
“A really Communist
Indonesia would turn Aus-
tralia’s flank, finish Singapore
both as commercial centre and
as naval base, expose the tender
under-belly of Seato, and per-
haps unlock the doors of
South-east Asia to Communist
China’s multiplying masses.
Potentially, the economic loss
to the free world, and the
corresponding gain to the land-
locked empire of Khrushchev
and Mao, could be enormous
in terms of tin and rubber
alone.
“On the other hand, if the
rebels were to make good their
promises of a long-drawn-out
guerrilla resistance, an even
graver danger would persist—
that the great Powers might
become militarily involved in
the struggle; and military
involvement, either by proxy
as in Indochina, or directly as
in Korea, would be infinitely


Compounded from an old Indian Formula, STRATTONS RHEUMATIC
and ARTHRITIS POWDER contains no harmful drugs, will not affect
the heart and has successfully overcome the most difficult and
obstinate cases when all other treatments have failed. Persons in all
walks of life have found freedom from suffering, and hundreds of
grateful letters from satisfied users have been received by our
Consultant whose Treatment Advice is made available to you'
FREE OF CHARGE as part of our Personalised Service which has
revolutionised the treatment of all types of Rheumatism and Arthritis
throughout the Commonwealth.
Four Weeks Treatment complete with Advice and Instructions and a'
SPECIAL CONCESSION VOUCHER if your complaint needs further
treatment . . . costs only £1 POST FREE.
STRATTONS RHEUMATIC POWDER Ltd.
9 Barrack St., Perth, W.A.
more dangerous now that long-
range nuclear missiles are with
us.
“All these apocalyptic
thoughts must have crossed the
minds and probably the lips of
the Seato Foreign Ministers
when they assembled at Manila.
One horn of the dilemma they
wrestled with in the darkness
of official secrecy was the fear
that inaction could lead to a
Communist triumph; the
other the likelihood that any
form of allied action would
open-up new rifts among non-
Communist Asians, and
between them and the West
(here, the position of
newly independent Malaya
would be one of particu-
larly acute . embarrassment)
—while outright intervention
might end in a nuclear war.
“The omission of any
mention of Indonesia in the
Seato communique may not
have been seriously intended to
deceive anybody, for there was
never any doubt that Seato,
as a body, chose non-interven-
tion as threatening only the
lesser of two evil prospects.
Various statesmen, including
Mr. Casey of Australia, have
since confirmed this impres-
sion.
“In the meantime, Peking
has seized on stories of For-
mosan arms-deliveries to the
rebels as evidence of American
intervention, and Bukit Tinggi
has argued that the delivery
of Russian ships to Djakarta
constitutes Soviet intervention.
It may be as well to accept the
fact that if the struggle proves
a long one, foreign arms are
almost bound to reach both
sides. It must, on the other
hand, be clear to Moscow (and
even, one hopes, to Peking)
that it shares with Washington
a compelling interest in avert-
ing the kind of interna-
tionalised conflict that would
result from unrestrained
assistance to either side.”
Germany and Nuclear
Weapons
It is not so long ago that
arguments ran pretty hot in the
British press over any form
of German rearmament, old
hatreds and fears for the
future fighting it out with the
view that an armed Germany
Was an essential part of Nato
and Western Europe in general.
That argument having been
largely settled —except on such
[natters as Germany’s slowness
j h raising the forces required
of it by Nato and, at the same
tune, its reluctance to kick-in
—London “Daily Mail”
PETROVSKI, HERE, CLAIMS TO BE ABLE TO PUT THE EARTH INTO
ORBIT AROUND THE SATELLITES ”
as much as the U.K. thinks
it should towards the cost of
British troops necessarily
stationed in Germany in the
meantime—fresh controversy
has arisen over the allocation of
guided missiles (the U.S.
Matador in particular) to the
German forces.
Reasoned arguments —•
as distinct from the emotional
variety—against the nuclear
arming of Germany are well
put by both London “Observer”
and “Manchester Guardian.”
The “Observer” comments that
“The German Government’s
decision to purchase American
Matador missiles at this par-
ticular time, and to equip its
forces with them, seems un-
wise on every ground—political,
psychological and military”:
“It is true that —as the
Chancellor and Herr Strauss,
the Defence Minister, tried to
convince the Bundestag the
defence of Europe has to be
based on the use of tactical
atomic weapons until a better
system of European security is
devised. But for Germany to
insist on having missiles at this
very moment can do nothing
but harm to the Western posi-
tion.
“In the first place, the
Matador missile has a very
limited range and can only
reach targets in Poland, thus
helping to nip in the bud
Warsaw’s desire to acquire a
more detached position in the
East-West struggle. Second,
being a very inaccurate weapon,
it is of military value only with
a nuclear warhead. This will
confirm the consistent Soviet
suspicion that the rearmament
of Germany really means
making her into a fully fledged
nuclear power, and will steepen
the ascent to the summit.
“Finally, the German navy
is still so embryonic and ill-
trained that the military case
for giving it these complex
weapons is not a strong one.
If it is necessary to train groups
of men in the use of missiles,
it would have been far better
to do this in the United ’States.
■' “The Chancellor gave his
real case away when he implied
that the possession of such
,
weapons was necessary to give
Germany her proper influence
m Nato. It is clear that he
has been infected with the
British tendency to regard
military usefulness and
influence as synonymous with
atomic weapons, and that inter-
dependence a proper division
of functions between the Allies
as to strategic and tactical,
nuclear and conventional
strength is as meaningless to
him as it apparently is to Mr.
Sandys.”
Reaching much the same
conclusions on a different tack,
“Manchester Guardian” con-
siders that putting atomic
weapons in German hands—or
French or British—“is a step in
the wrong direction”:
“The fault lies with Nato.
In Europe it has come to
depend increasingly on atomic
weapons, not merely for the
major strategic deterrent but
also as a means to make good
the lack of troops and aircraft,
Under General Norstad it is
reaching the point at which its
t roo P s on the Continent
will be unable to fight any but
the most insignificant action
without usi ons
Again, General Norstad P him _
self j s not altogether to blame:
he is being pushed into this
position because Governments
have for years failed to build-
U p their contingents as planned,
and because American and
British atomic weapons are
available,
“Consider, first in military
terms, the situations which
General Norstad’s forces may
have to meet. If there is some
small eruption from the East,
whether against Berlin or
against some part of the
Liibeck-Passau line, should he
use atomic weapons? Obviously


not, if conventional forces can
handle it; but they are thinly
spread. Suppose, then, that
atomic bombs are dropped by
British or American aircraft (or,
looking ahead, fired by units
supporting the new German
forces). The erupters may with-
draw ; but much more
probably, if they are acting with
Soviet sanction, they will retort
with atomic weapons of their
own. They have plenty, and
they can hit back as hard as
they are hit. Shall we then
extend the war, or admit defeat;
and, either way, what shall we
have gained from our atomic
weapons? Nothing. ,
“Alternatively, consider an
all-out attack with 200 divi-
sions, or even with a quarter
of that number. Our bases
and firing-points for atomic
weapons (except in East Anglia)
will be overrun within hours ;
—London “Daily Express”
“OF COURSE WE’LL STOP TESTS—JUST AS SOON AS WE’VE TESTED OUR
REALLY, TRULY, FINALLY, END-ALL, ULTIMATE WEAPON.”
and our troops, thinly spread,
can never make the attackers
concentrate sufficiently to give
us a target for atomic action,
You need a big target to hit
effectively with an atomic
bomb or missile. Soviet tactics
of dispersed attack are highly
developed, and they can deal
with divisions holding 25-mile
fronts without concentrating,
They must know that as well as
General Norstad’s staff. Thus
our tactical atomic weapons
can add nothing to the
strategic deterrent.
“Why, then, have them? If
the -strategic deterrent is effec-
tive, they are not needed to
prevent major war ; and they
are no help in minor action,
Although comparatively cheap
they nevertheless cost a lot of
money that could better be
spent on other things. And to
supply them to the French,
German, and other allied forces
in Europe will thrust away the
slender hope of disengagement.
It will mean that the Russians
must either equip the satellite
armies with them or themselves
stay indefinitely in Eastern
Europe. It will decrease the
chance of easing the Russians
out and harden the division
of Europe. It will increase the
risk of inadvertent atomic war
and add nothing to our
security. Why do it?”
The opposing view that
which sees the nuclear arming
of Germany as a simple neces-
sity which overrides argument
about it—is summarised by a
New York “Herald Tribune”
editorial comment, and it is
worth noting here, incidentally,
that American thinking on
nuclear weapons is no longer
conditioned to any extent by a
presumption of immunity from
nuclear attack,
“The Soviet Union,” the
“Herald Tribune” comments,
“warns that German unification
might be blocked by West
Germany's acceptance of
nuclear arms. Since the
Russians have refused to discuss
German unification at the
summit or elsewhere, and insist
that it is a matter to-be worked-
out between Bonn and the
puppet East German regime,
this argument lacks force. But
it is used by some Germans who
place unification as the supreme
goal.
“Moreover, the Polish plan
for ti-, e nuclear neutralisation of
Central Europe would neces-
sariiy involve West Germany,
Those who hope that an agree-
ment along these lines might
lessen tensions and provide
a basis for tbe ultimate with-
drawal of all foreign troops
from this region fear that the
plan might never be realised
jf West Germany obtains
nuclear arms
.. Chancellor Adenauer, how-
ever> has taken a flrm stand
on the need for the -nuclear
armament of his country within
the Nato framework. He has
urged upon the Bundestag that
failure to accept such arms, if
Nato requires them, would
mean the end of West German
membership in the alliance.
He adds: ‘Then we shall also
be without influence.’
“That reason is important
for West Germany. Equally
significant is the patent fact
that, unless and until there is
a solid, enforceable agreement
on the control of nuclear
weapons, either globally or in
respect to Central Europe, Nato
must rely upon such weapons
to meet the huge preponderance
of conventional Soviet forces.
“Concentrated firepower is
the only direct answer to the
large number of armored divi-
sions which the Kremlin could
dispatch across the Elbe, even
though the retaliatory force of
strategic air is the primary
deterrent to Soviet aggression.
“Atomic weapons furnish
that firepower—for the defence
of free Europe.”
There is, of course, a third
view, which by-passes both the
pros and the antis. This is
the opinion which admits the
inevitability of Germany being
armed with nuclear weapons.
Germany’s post-war history has
shown very plainly how a
country with the capacity and
the will to work can rise from
ruin, and it becomes increas-
ingly obvious that the Germans
are more than likely to
assume control of their own
destiny if they have not
already done so.
As London “Daily Mail”
puts it, “we have travelled far
from a prostrate and helpless
Germany, but we have not yet
reached the end of the road”:
“Germany does not relish
arms-dependence on the U.S.
She is already arranging with
France and Italy to produce
standardised weapons ‘in
accordance with Nato prin-
ciples.’
“Rearmament cannot be
halted by ‘gestures’ from any
one other country. What is
happening now shows that
advanced industrial nations are
not content to accept a per-
manent inferiority.
“It also emphasises the
urgency of another attempt at
all - round disarmament.
Whether this is made at U.N. or
a summit-conference does not
matter.
“What does matter is that an
extremely perilous process shall
be arrested, not by one nation
acting alone but by all acting
together.”
Middle East Changes
Comment on Ibn Saud’s
transfer of powers to his
brother, Crown Prince Faisal,
still seems to be pretty much
in the guessing-game stage,
ranging from the Alsop
brothers’ suggestion, in N.Y.
“Herald Tribune,” that the
change portends Middle East
disaster for the West, to John
Foster Dulles’s deprecation of
any major significance in the
changeover.
In London “Economist’s”
view “Emir Faisal has prepared
himself for this new position
by making, when abroad,
acceptable remarks about Arab
unity, Palestine and imperi-
alism. As long as he is the
darling of the press in Syria and
Egypt he may be able to over-
come the shame of the recent
bribery charge against King
Saud. President Nasser may
agree to forget it for the
moment —though it will remain
a handy weapon in his locker.
Emir Faisal could then get
down to a serious consideration
of his relations with the two
Arab unions.
“It is obvious that he intends
to join neither union and would
dearly love to co-exist with both
—though he apparently wants
to take Saudi Arabia back to
its alignment, so useful to his
father, with Egypt and Syria
against Irak and Jordan.
“It seems strange that Emir
Faisal’s new power should be
hailed as a sign that the
tremendous wastage of the
State’s revenue is to be stopped.
He has been one of the chief
offenders. He has spent vast
sums on foreign real-estate,
particularly in Cairo, where he
owns blocks of flats that almost
dwarf the pyramids.
“Two years ago a Cairo


I
B
m-
-0
m
wm-mmmM
<O5
:■ .
mmm
%MIM
ir '<
74
%
THE
TEAK ROUND '
AID TO BETTER
RWHO
rINE
£TRO i.? KERO •
DIESEL
EaZy D f POS, T
EASY TERMS i
Write or Call
for a Demonstration on your Property
NOTE TO FERGUSON OWNERS
Present Ferguson Owners will be pleased to
note that their existing implements can
ALL be used with the new Ferguson 35.
BRITISH TRACTOR & IMPLEMENTS
PTY. LTD
Sydney Street • New Farm Brisbane Phone LW 1011
report that he was building the
tallest structure in the Middle
East evoked cautious criticism
from Saudi contractors and
merchants. His palace at Taif,
by now fairly bijou by Saudi
standards, set-off the palace-
building competition among the
princes in 1949. He assumes
responsibility at a time when
the country owes more to
foreign banks than it has ever
done, though the frequent
rumors that it has already
spent five or more years’ oil-
royalties are not true. Others
who have tried to straighten-
out Saudi finance have felt that
their first move should be to
borrow. Emir Faisal will have
to stop doing so for a while.
“He has been Viceroy of the
Hijaz since 1926. His admini-
stration there, when compared
with that in central and eastern
Arabia, has been remarkable
for its lack of narrow
fanaticism. He has a large
following among town Arabs,
who now are far more im-
portant than the bedouin. These
townsmen are now demanding
much more freedom, and he
will do well to yield it to them
in some well-planned and
orderly fashion.
“Egyptian and Syrian propa-
gandists and his brother’s bad
management have created a
special position for him. Now
he will have to move forward,
and move fast. Hfe cannot hope
to put the clock back. To try
to do so would mean that the
country, and with it the house
of Saud, would remain an out-
cast among the Arab nations
—if it survived.”
Various Voices
Lord Mancroft: “How the
Russians must be rubbing their
hands with joy over the junket-
ings of the Campaign for
Nuclear Disarmament [in
Britain]. To disrupt Nato and
sow the seeds of suspicion
amongst the Western Allies is
a cardinal feature of Russian
policy. The present upsurge
of pacifism, sincere though it
may be, is causing our allies to
reassess our possible worth in
times of trouble.”
Prime Minister Macmillan :
“Peace has been preserved so
far, not because the West has
disarmed, but because the
present balance is roughly
equal. I would not like to be
responsible for the outcome if
the West were unilaterally to
abandon that balance. A
gesture may sometimes be
magnificent, but it is not a
policy.”
Mr. Manning Dacey (eco-
nomic adviser to Lloyds Bank ) :
“If the Free Trade area is killed,
it will be the death-blow to
European economic co-opera-
tion—the difference between
building a Channel tunnel or
making the Channel deeper and
wider.”
Britain's Chancellor of the
Exchequer, Mr. Heathcoat-
Amory : “The Bank-rate to be
useful must be flexible. The
Government’s anti-inflationary
policies remain the same (as
before reduction of Bank-rate
to 6 per cent.) and will be prose-
cuted with the same vigor as
during recent months. . This
applies equally to the credit-
squeeze and to our attitude,
which has been made quite
clear, to inflationary wage-
increases.”
“Ted” Leather (Conservative
M.P.): “The great question is,
what is to be done about the
H-bomb? Does peace depend
on this terrible deterrent or
does it not? That is the only
question that matters. All the
variants—such 'as make it but
do not test it; test it but not
till after summit-talks ; do not
make it at all but shelter under
the Americans’ bomb—are only
quibbles. Of course, the whole
world is fed-up with it; the
thing is a nightmare. But it
exists, and not all the emotion,
fury, sermons, or ideals can
un-invent the horrible thing.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Voting Systems
The article on Queensland
electoral reform (B. 19/3/'5B)
suggests that first-past-the-post
voting is outmoded and should
be scrapped. It has, it says,
been “long ago abandoned by
every State and by the Federal
authorities.” However, it has
not been abandoned by Great
Britain or the United States.
Mere conservatism may be the
explanation, but plurality
voting (that’s its official name)
has nevertheless a good deal
to commend it.
It undoubtedly encourages
public opinion to express itself
through two major parties and
gives every incentive to parties
of either wing to compromise
over divisive issues. Certainly
it tends to produce clear
majorities in the House, ensur-
ing stable government.
Preferential voting may give
a more accurate representation
of the differing shades of public
opinion, but there are many
Queenslanders anxious for
electoral reform who would be
sorry to see first-past-the-post
voting jettisoned. F. A. O.
(QJd.).
Reforming the Divorce
Laws
Neither the English nor the
Australian legal system punishes
adultery. The idea of the law
as a dictator of private morality
died in the Middle Ages.
Problems arising from homes
broken by adulterous partners
do not arise to any considerable
extent where remarriage is
prohibited. The question for
which an answer must be found
is: How to protect the children
of the earlier marriage?
At this point the community
has a very real interest which
the reformers have neglected
far too long. In a recent case
a wife's second husband made
it clear he would not contribute
to the support of the wife’s
children by her first husband.
This condition was accepted by
the wife, with the result that
while the children of the second
marriage lived in comfort those
of the first marriage were in
less-happy circumstances.
This case was exceptional
only because the husband’s
demands were more extreme
than usual. There are numerous
cases where the children of
earlier marriages do not receive
proper care and affection.
Much of the present formality
in divorce proceedings could
be dispensed with safely if there
were a requirement that the
parties could only remarry
after satisfying the court that
remarriage would not harm
the interests of the children of
the earlier marriage. Fiat
Justitia (Vic.).
Postal-box Design
Three or four years ago I
suggested to the Postmaster-
General that a simple piece of
equipment be attached to
street post-boxes so that letter-
posters might know whether the
receptacle had been already
cleared or not, said idea being
a clock-face device operated
by the postal collectors by a
key, showing “next clearance”
and time, but it was rejected.
In Melbourne’s museum last
week I was amazed to see the
very thing I’d suggested, on a
tall red pillar-box about seven-
feet high! I discovered that a
gentleman in the P.O. Depart-
ment named Tyrell had ante-
dated my idea by over 70 years,
but with the same result.
He constructed a beautiful
model which afforded not
only the “next clearance”
information (turned by a key),
but also made record of the
number of articles posted, so
that collections could be
checked. In addition, there
were phone-call boxes in the
octagonal section of the outfit,
for summoning police, ambu-
lance, doctor,' communicating
with tram-office, fire-brigade
and the newspapers. Batteries
supplied the electricity needed.
I still think that his “Com-
bined Postal Electric Signal
Alarm and Telephone Pillar”
as its designer called it, or
some modification of it,
could be very useful even
today.—W. H. M. (Tas.).
Steam Locos
Having read all that “Trans-
porticus” has written on the
subject, I wonder if diesel-
electrics have really been suc-
cessful—at the cost of £lOO,OOO
each.
Agreement with his way of
regarding the matter was
definite after last week’s trip to
Perth, the section Adelaide to
Port Pirie behind “Essington
Lewis” a 520 (Pacific) class
speedy and comfortable. And,
apparently, three such mighty
“Voss”
Max Harris seems to fall
into the same error of which
he complains in Douglas
Stewart’s criticism of Patrick
White’s novel (B. 26/3/’5B).
The overseas critics must be
right, and ours must be wrong!
Three of ours—Ross Campbell,
Kylie Tennant and Douglas
Stewart—said substantially the
same thing about the book. Yet
a more diverse trio it would
be hard to imagine.
I think the divergence
between home and overseas
reviewers comes this way.
Voss, to the man overseas,
portrays a wayward character
in a wayward background. The
whole thing is completely
unreal, a certain waywardness
in the writing, and the whole
becomes “different.” Being
“different” is the only thing
worth-while these days.
To the Australian, Voss is a
historical novel. And, of
course, a historical novel is
neither flesh, fowl nor good red
herring. To write a biography
the author has to travel an
arid wasteland of sheer hard
work. Not only must his
central character be exact, like
the portrait Cromwell
demanded, “warts and all,” but
all the minor characters are
also real people, and you can’t
turn a police-sergeant into a
Simon Legree just to give your
biography “color.” Once the
names are set-out in black-and-
white, the author is open to
criticism from a host of people
who also know the facts, either
through relationship or
historical research.
The historical novel avoids
a lot of work, because it doesn't
have to conform with truth,
yet can still pick the eyes out
of history for vivid color, and
so be far more popular than
biography.
To an Australian, Voss is
based on Ludwig Leichhardt,
and Leichhardt, though un-
known overseas, bristles with
difficulties for any writer who
tries to reach the public with a
portrait of him.
Kennedy, too, met with
tragedy in exploration, but
Kennedy and “Jacky-Jacky” are
material for an epic. Edward
lohn Eyre, Rescued at the last
gasp by an American ship near
Esperance, has the same appeal.
Burke and Wills, although
many a criticism could be
shipped home to them, had all
the ingredients because of the
very characters of Burke, Wills,
King and Gray.
But Leichhardt was a bad
bushman ; the typical migrant
who sets out with a pannikin
of water to go to the next
Northern Territory settlement
and tells nobody his intentions.
If anybody hoped to make a
legend of Leichhardt, the final
squelch came with the
Bulletin’s offer of £lO,OOO
reward for some concrete proof
of his end. Perhaps there is a
story in it. Perhaps there is a
story in “King Lear,” but it is
still bad theatre.
To the three critics, Patrick
White’s novel is not the story.
Should Voss be Leichhardt,
or Leichhardt be Voss? That
is the crux of the matter. As
“ Yeah—Wonderful change since We started callin'
’em bus-hostesses .”
long as they cannot be divorced
the story remains an historical
novel, and such a thing is an
abomination in the world of
letters.
Mrs, J. M. FORSES
(N.S.W.).


V
77i\
1
m
#
m
.
0
w
A Banking Service
that leeks ahead
This Bank provides many facilities and
extra services for those who look to the
future. Helpful and friendly advice is avail-
able to our customers at Head Office or
any of the many branches of the Bank.
The Bank's services include the C.B.C.
Savings Bank which enables all members of
the family to plan and save for
the future. Deposits in the
C.B.C. Savings Bank Limited
3
are guaranteed
by the parent
Company,
■mm
v*
k£iM
m
m
° ■Wvm.
locos can be had for the price
of one diesel!
So “Transporticu s,”
obviously an engineer, has
caused this traveller, a mere
layman, perturbation as to
whether various authorities
have been over-enthusiastic in
spending some of his hard-
earned cash paid in taxes —
and anyway, what does happen
to diesel and/or diesel-electric
locos when they age? Are their
maintenance, servicing, replace-
ments, etc., that much cheaper,
or are they dearer?
That future railway motive-
power should depend where
possible on electricity seems
so sound that it will be interest-
ing to see what form of loco
motion will be used on the
projected Port Augusta -
Whyalla service, with an
already huge* electrical-generat-
ing power-house in existence —
and output soon to be increased
—at Port Augusta.—N. James-
Martin (S.A.).
World Shipping
A large-scale depression faces
the world’s merchant fleets.
Many millions of tons are laid -
up and unemployment is rising.
- This is mostly due to the
depressed state of the “tramp”
market, notably in grain and
coal (bulk cargoes); freight-
rates have dropped to the
lowest level for over a decade.
A little over 12 months ago
bulk-wheat charters from West-
ralia to the U.K. or the Con-
tinent averaged from 1755. to
2055. stg. per ton ; at present an
owner is happy if he can get
60s. At the latter rate, pro-
vided the vessel is modern, the
owner would just about break
even—the older type of ship
would lose money. From the
Australian wheat- and barley-
growers’ point of view, how-
ever, it means a better return,
but we have an exportable
surplus at least 50 per cent, less
than normal.
Tanker-fleets are also hit.
A year ago the single-voyage
rate from the Persian Gulf to
the U.K. and the Continent fell
from 2155. stg. a ton to
under 31s! There is, of course,
the . same proportionate drop
in rates for oil-tankers coming
to Australia. The petrol com-
panies are reaping a harvest
from the Australian motorist,
as there has been very little
drop in our retail price since
Suez, when rates hit their peak.
Nobody seems to be squealing.
From the Commonwealth’s
point of view the worst feature
pf the shipping recession is that
h is hitting the British ship-
owner (and consequently the


shipbuilding yards) more than
many others because of the high
rates of taxation the British
owner must pay, compared with
the “flags of convenience”
owners. The latter are usually
registered in non - taxing
countries, such as Panama,
Liberia, Honduras and Costa
Rica. These countries have over
14 million gross tons of ship-
ping registered. If this con-
tinues, it will be possible for
one of these four countries to
become the largest maritime
power in the world. There is a
strong case for the U.K.
Government to do something
drastic. .
The present low freight-rates
have recently had some
advantages to Australia in that
they have greatly assisted our
exports of coal, 'particularly
from N.S.W. Last year, because
freight-rates were so high, over-
seas buyers found it uneco-
nomical to pay the steep landed
cost of our coal. Over the last
six to nine months, however,
Korea, Japan and even South
America have been buying
N.S.W. coal.
The regular liner * services
other than passenger-
traffic —have also suffered, but
not to anything like the same
extent as tramps. The liner-
vessels have always got a
bread-and-butter business at
their regular rates of freight.
From Australia there is always
wool and general cargo. Such
rates are fixed for periods of
“ Mummy—why don't people fall off the floor?"
from one to two years.—Pulse
(Vic.).
Diesels and Fuel
That description of the
diesel-engine (Service Dept.
B. 19/3/’5B) was probably
close enough, but in the interest
of complete accuracy I’d add
the following:
The ordinary diesel does not
run on “crude” oil. Large slow-
running marine jobs can use
carefully-purified “boiler” oil
at some cost, but the various
grades of H.S.D. and gas-oii
are very highly-refined products
indeed.
The injection-equipment of
a diesel is hardly “less com-
plicated than a carburettor.”
You could best describe it as a
pump which measures-out with
microscopic accuracy exactly
enough oil to moisten the head
of a pin, forces it against a
pressure which can rise to
60001b5., delivers it at exactly
the right point in the cycle, and
does it up to 2000 times a
minute. Add the injector, which
must deliver this oil right
through the combustion-space,
and you see why maintenance
takes place under conditions
directly comparable with that
of an operating-theatre.
“Most diesels are four-cycle.”
I doubt it. Certainly at sea in
large stuff the two-stroke pre-
dominates (the auxiliaries are
often four-cycle) while on
land the two-stroke G.M.
powers the majority of diesel-
locos, together with great
numbers of trucks and buses.—
Transporticus (Singapore).
The French Revolution
I must in my' turn pull-up
“Terry the Tory” (B. 19/3/’5B).
Certainly the French Revolu-
tion was in large measure the
work of the bourgeoisie (or
middle-class) —a responsibility
not always acknowledged ; but
I deny his statement that the
peasantry and urban workers
took no part in proceedings.
Everyone knows that chateau
after chateau was burnt down
in the early days of the Revo-
lution. Who burnt them? The
peasantry, of course.
And the people of Paris
certainly played a very import-
ant role, implementing some of
the most revolutionary doings,
from the storming of the
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 482
Across
I—The motorist doesn’t get a bluey for standing in this
fish craft of Noah. (3-4)
s—Stew5 —Stew furniture at the childhood home of 24-across. .(7)
9 —You and the love-apple in an inhuman mechanism with
some human faculties. (9)
10 — Intimidate with relation to coppers. (5)
11 — Split spice. (5)
12— 9-across and more of the same for 24-across who is
after a car. (8t
14 — Gothic cathedral features could
become passe. (5)
16— A direction to bite when having
a sit on eggs. (7)
19 —Entertainment with the Maori
work. (7)
22—Back parts strip from leather. (5)
24—A beautiful spy. (4-4)
26—Roy Rene managed a famous
Sydney cardinal. (5)
28 — Diary kept by an American
berry-breeder. (5)
29 — You plan part of a menu of
the mountain regions. (9)
30— Deck with flowers causing a
change in the weather. (7)
31 — The uncivilised South Australian
figure gets longer in the
tooth. (7)
Down
1— A European premier has the
opportunity to roll up. (10)
2 Don’t be unjust in distributing
limited beer supplies in a
reasoned argument. (9)
3 How is the Venus de Milo mak-
ing the Cockney harmless? (7)
4 The trousers of the late Carson
luggage. (7)
5 Lace the honorable one to
weight. (7)
6 Aida’s lover is an Englishman
who can paint women. (7)
7 Blueblood to indulge in activity
with figure. (5)
8 — A small bird to duck an
influential Yugoslav. (4)
13 —A place for Sydney suicides to
jump over one like this African
lily. (10)
15— Newt. (3)
17 — Don the nosebag. (3)
18 —Communicating some influence
to one thousand before separat-
ing. (9)
20 — An influential Moslem has this
month in opposition. (7)
21 — Act with the rubber age with-
out uncertainty. (7)
22 — Suffocates horses’ knee-joints. (7)
23 — Latin is over 0.5, a Russian
dynast. (7)
25 —One of the original English
fish. (5)
27 —Swing around murders in the
past. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 481


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE —MARINE —ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUOLASS. MALCOLM 0. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centre*
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME . .......
ADDRESS ...............
r. . .... • ... ... ..... .■rr.i.’-.i
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
BaS tille in July, 1789, to the
setting-up of the Commune in
August, 1792, and the ensuing
attack on the royal palace, the
fuileries. The Paris Commune,
based on the mob, for a time
inspired such things as the
infamous September massacres.
In the 1770’s and 1780’s there
were riots by the poor against
tbe high price of bread —which
produced *the Governor of
Dijon’s famous remark that
the people should “go and eat
grass.” These riots were fore-
runners of the Revolution.
“Serfdom only lingered in
a mild form in 18th-century
France.” No, sir. Serfdom in
France was not abolished till
1779 (my authority, Archibald
Robertson’s The French Revo-
lution), and the abolition must
have been more in name than
in actuality, for, to quote
Robertson, “As for the
peasantry, a drought in 1788,
followed by a bitter winter,
had driven them to despera-
tion. They looked to the
States-General to better their
condition by relieving "them of
feudal burdens of every kind.”
That statement means serfdom
still existed.
As for Frenchmen at that
time not being heavily taxed,
anyone who has read French
history of that period knows
that from the accession of
Louis XVI (1774) till 1787 a
series of Finance Ministers
(Turgot, Necker and, in par-
ticular, Calonne) had raised
loan on loan and clapped tax
on tax till France was bled
white —all in order to get
money to pay for the extrava-
gances of the Court.
And, as the nobles and
clergy didn’t pay taxes at all,
ergo, the rest of France,
middle - class, workers and
peasantry, had to meet their
share as well. It was the com-
plete bankruptcy of France
after the fall of Calonne in
1787 which led to the calling
the States-General for the
first time for 175 years and
which sparked-off the Revolu-
tion. Hence my statement that
heavy taxation was a main
cause of the Revolution.
If life in 18th-century France
was as rosy as “Terry the
“Actually it's still on the secret-list."
Tory” makes out, then there
would seem to be no reason
for a revolution at all. —
Keima (Q.).
Juvenile Delinquents
Brisbane is now in the throes
of an inquiry into juvenile
delinquency. Owing to the
differences of opinion of the
“experts” being examined, and
the perversity of some of them,
the inquiry will, of course,
get nowhere, as usual.
Too much emphasis, I think,
is being made on environment,
which, beyond question, can
modify conduct but cannot alter
heredity. Real experts such as
geneticist George Mack and
pathologist Professor J. V.
Duhig agree on this. The others
do not. Social workers and the
Churches want less police
action and the formation of
non-practicable clinics. It is
remarkable how the truth on
a matter that intimately touches
.the individual tends to be held
back, • even suppressed. Un-
fortunately the medical people
have little training in the sub-
ject of genetics, and full know-
ledge cannot be obtained
merely by reading. Some of the
persons examined don’t seem
to have heard of genes, or of
dominant and recessive
characteristics that our fore-
bears had and some of which
are handed down to us. Some of
the experts should read the
history of the notorious Jukes
family, and Krafft-Ebing’s
Psychopathia Sexualis. The
amount of work that has been
done over the past 60 years is
astonishing and it continues to
pour from the press almost
daily. More salutary treatment
of the bodgie-widgie element is,
I think, indicated. Let us
face the fact that softsoap and
leniency are only making the
matter worse. — Sanasi (Qld.).
Better Bread
There seems to be no end of
suggestions for better bread,
other than the obvious —better
bakers. They always have an
excuse: poor-protein flour
generally. A nearby town to us
has three bakers. One who used
to sell good-quality bread, now
produces a sod—his installation
of a steam-oven may have some-
thing to do with the deteriora-
tion. The others use the tradi-
tional wood-fired ovens.
While at Werrimul (Vic.) I
tasted really good bread, and
was proudly told by the locals
that they had the best baker in
the country. They also ex-
plained that recently he received
a consignment of different,
poorer-quality flour. For a
few days his bread was poor;
but he experimented until he
baked bread from it equal to
his old standard.
In the face of that; the excuse
of poor-quality flour is a little
thin.—J.J.A. (Vic.).


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS"
CATTLE AT SYDNEY ROYAL
SHORTHORNS
D ., r , c
HULLS
Over 3y: R. A. Norriss’s Coonong
Architect.
2y and under 3y: D. R. McCaug-
hey’s Coonong Champion, 1;
Coonong Caesar, 2; and Coonong
Distinction, 3 ; V. P. Fairbairn and
Co.'s Woomargama Vagrant, 4.
21m and under 2y: D. R. Me-
Caughey's Coonong Danny Boy, 1;
C. P. Fairbairn and Co.’s Woo-
margama Vanquisher, 2; T. H.
Fleming s Russley Goblin, 3; A.
ai ? d Lambell Pty. s Field
Marshal, 4.
18™ and “■
Pty.s Greenwich Inverolachy, 1;
J. Parker s Old Canowie Crusader,
2; D. R- McCaughey’s‘Coonong
Dragoon, 3, Round Hill Pty. s
Round Hill Bonnie Scot 4; J.
Keme field s Wongala Jubilee 5;
W. J. Freudenstein and Sons
Omaru Banner-Bearer, h.c.
12m and under 15m: Kyalla
Pty. s Greenwich Iron Fortune, 1,
and Greenwich Iron Cruiser h.c.;
A. and W. Lambell Pty. s Weenya
Formidable 2; Lithgow and Rosss
Dauntless Beau Cavalier 3; C. H.
f er ri ett x S /i Xt ° n LO a d c Ma , y ° r A V
d *li c^enna and Sons Halt-
would Harmony 5
12m and under 15m: Kyalla
R y ;,nH H e n Wi m Iron p For | e ’ J,
Round Hill Pty.s Round Hill
Boxer, 2; Whitney Pastoral Co.’s
Coombing Amnestv, 3, and Coom-
bing Cremona, 5; D. R. McCaug-
It is reported that
the estimated 1958
wool production of
Australia will not be
sufficient to meet the
demand. The need to
guard the lives of
lambs is thus more
urgent than ever.
Loss of blood and
open wounds—inevit-
able when marking
and tailing is carried
out by a cutting in-
strument —can cause
disease and death. It
is much wiser prac-
tice to use Elastrator
Rubber Rings which
achieve the same
result by atrophy.
hey’s Coonong Davy Crockett, 4;
O. E. Ingrey’s Calare Dominion,
h.c.
Calf 6m and under 12m: Round
Hill Pty.’s Round Hill Chieftain,
1; Sir Rupert Clarke’s Bolinda
Indomitable, 2; D. R. McCaug-
hey’s Coonong Elegance, 3; Whit-
ney Pastoral Co.’s Coombing Glory
2nd, 4; Kyalla Pty.’s Greenwich
Justice, 5; and Greenwich
Jamieson, h.c.
COWS AND HEIFERS
Over 3y: E. and N. Campbell’s
Billabula Princess Patricia, 1.
2y and under 3y: J. and T.
Carter’s Weddin Amaranthus, 31st,
1; D. R, McCaughey’s Coonong
Margo 2nd, 2.
21m and under 2y: G. Starritt
and Son’s Kelso Broadhooks Rose,
1; A. and W. Lambell Pty.’s
Weenya Mysie 4th, 2; L. A. White-
law’s Wendowiee Golden Ray
3rd, 3.
18m and under 21m: G. Starritt
and Son’s Kelso Flossy Jeannette
2nd, 1; J. and T. Carter’s Weddin
Carnation 2nd, 2; J. Kemelfield’s"
Wongala' Lustre Belle 6th, 3.
15m and under 18m: Kyalla
Pty.'s Greenwich Ury llene, 1, and
Greenwich Secret lolanthe, 2; G.
Starritt and Son’s Kelso Princess
Royal 2nd, 3; J. Kemelfield’s
Wongala Pancake 13th, 4.
12m and under 15m: Round
Hill Pty.’s Round Hill Broadhooks,
1; Kyalla Pty.’s Greenwich Lustre
Ina, 2; J. Kemelfield’s Wongala
Augusta Mavowreen sth, 3 ; D. R.
McCaughey’s Coonong Jealous
Ann, 4.
Calf, 6m and under 12m: Round
Hill Pty.’s Round Hill Princess
Mercedes, 1; A. and W. Lambell
Pty.’s Weenya Mysie sth, 2; Kyalla
Pty.'s Greenwich Mina Janet, 3;
D. R. McCaughey’s Coonong
Flossy Bud, 4.
CHAMPIONSHIPS
Bull: Kyalla Pty.’s Greenwich
Inverolachy.
Reserve: D. R. McCaughey’s
Coonong Champion.
Junior: Round Hill Pty.’s Round
Hill Chieftain.
Reserve: Kyalla Pty.’s Green-
wich Iron Fortune.
Cow or heifer: G. Starritt and
Son’s Kelso Broadhooks Rose.
Reserve: A. W. Lambell Pty.’s
Weenya Mysie 4th.
Junior: Kyalla Pty.’s Greenwich
Ury Uene.
Reserve : Round Hill Pty.’s Round
Hill Princess Mercedes.
GRAND CHAMPIONS
Grand champion ribbon, for
best bull, any age: Round Hill
Pty.’s Round Hill Chieftain.
Grand champion ribbon, for best
cow or heifer, any age: Kyalla
Pty.’s Greenwich Ury llene.
ABERDEEN-ANGUS
BULLS
Bull, over 3y: Estate of G. T.
Reid’s Narrangullen Euripides, 1.
Over 2+y and under 3y: C. H. A.
Plain 4 * Booramooka Zepher, 1;
Mrs. W. J. R. Wilson’s Mt.
William Trumps, 2,
2y and under 2}y: F. H. Tout
hnd Co.’s Wambanumba Atlas, 1;
Estate of A. Leitch and J. F.
Leitch’s Tunbridge Zulu, 2; H.
G. Munro’s Booramooka Zipper,
3; Estate of A. Leitch and J.
Leitch’s Tunbridge Askari, 4.
and under 2y: H. G.
Munro s Booramooka Abel, 1;
Wallah Pastoral Coy.’s Wallah Blue
Jene, 2, and Wallah Nogo, 3.
18m and under 21m: E. C. and
B. L. Hawkins and Sons’ Woola-
mia Black Marvel, 1, and
Wollamia Black Prince, 3; Estate
of G. T. Reid’s Narrangullen
Georkm, 2; F. H. Tout and Co.’s
Warpbanumba Argo, 4.
15m and under 18m: H. G.
Munro’s Booramooka Anticipate,
1; Estate of G. T. Reid’s Narran-
gullen Endensor, 2; F. H. Tout and
Co. s Wambanumba Aladdin, 3,
and Wambanumba Anthony, 4.
12m and under 15m: F. H. Tout
and Co.’s Wambanumba Batten,
1; Mrs. W. J. R. Wilson’s Mt. Wil-
liam Trumpeter, 2; Wallah Pastoral
Co.’s Wallah Blue Vern, 3; R. C.
N. Clarke’s Dropmore Ellipse, 4.
Calf, 6m and under 12m: F. H.
Tout and Co.’s Wambanumba Beau
Brummell, 1; R. C. N. Clarke’s
Dropmore Terrence, 2; H. G.
Munro’s Booramooka Banner, 3;
Estate of G. T. Reid’s Narran-
gullen Evidence, 4.
rnu/c a\in unwvc
COWS AND HEIFERS
2y and under 24-y: Estate of G.
T. Reid’s Narrangullen Geranium
3rd, 1; H. G. Munro’s Boora-
raooka Zoe, 2.
21m and under 2y: H. G.
Munro’s Booramooka Abbess, 1;
Estate of G. T. Reid’s Narran-
gullen Merry Meg 2nd, 2; R.
H i b Bm rS a°„ u „ E d”.7tlm • of
, Rei f S arr S u ™d G ?i st 4
Wambanumba A JX, 2° K aUua
Pastoral Co.’s Kahlua-Moonlight
3rd, 3.
15m' and under 18m: F. H.
Tout and Co.’s Wambanumba
Adriana, 1; Estate of G. T. Reid’s
Narrangullen Geranium 4th, 2;
J. Jackson’s Sutherland Genista, 3;
H. G. Munro’s Booramooka
Avon, 4.
12m and under 15m: Estate of
G. T. Reid’s Narrangullen Gracie,
1; F. H. Tout and Co.’s Warn-
banumba Answer, 2; W. H r
Mayne’s Gibraltar Elandine 2nrf'
3; W. A. Scott’s Milong Bess 4’
Calf, 6m and under 12m: Estat*
of G, T. Reid’s Narrangullen
Roulette, 1; A. S. Boyd’s Kilmar-
nock Belmayne, 2; H. G. Munro’s
Booramooka Belvedere, 3; A. G
Elliott’s Coraine Songster 2nd 4
CHAMPIONSHIPS
Bull: F. H. Tout and Co’s
Wambanumba Atlas.
Reserve: H. G. Munro’s Boora-
mooka Abel.
Junior: H. G. Munro’s Boora-
mooka Anticipate,
Reserve: Estate of G. T. Reid’s
Narrangullen Endensor.
Cow or heifer: Estate of G. T
Reid’s Narrangullen Geranium 3rd
Reserve: H. G. Munro’s Boora-
mooka Zoe.
Junior: Estate of G. T. Reid’s
Narrangullen Gracie
Reserve: F. H. Tout and Co.’s
Wambanumba Answer
GRAND CHAMPIONSHIP
rTr „„j ... f . ,
h iiH :ha ™ P ion nhbun, for best
R n li a g A' nt - ■-,t G ' Munros
B n h C ' -uu
J* 1 ?* championship ribbon for
£ ow ° r he fe any j ,gc . : Es ?‘ e
Cernninm Reid S Narian ® ul
(jeranium 3rd-
ucDrrnnne
rItKLrUKL/j
BOLLS
Bull, over 3y: A. and R. Hays
Sugwas President, 1; C. K. and J.
C. Hill’s Navua Apollo, 2.
2y and under 3y: Hays Bros.’
Bexley de Q., 1 ; C. K. and J. C.
Hill’s Navua Beau Ideal, 2; S. J.
Field’s Gordon Brook Chancellor,
3; Turee Station’s Turee Irreplace-
able, 4; Miss T McMaster’s
Dalkeith Whirlwind, 5
21m and under Miss T.
DalkeUh f; E
m^r l, L^ s h, SS
C F “.
So f 0 s Cuppa Cromwell, 4.
18m and under 21m: J. K
Allen’s South Boorook Dick, U
Turee Station’s Turee Jupiter, L
and Turee Judge, 3; Fairymeao
Sugar Co.’s Fairymead Bonapart,
4 > and Fairymead Britain, 5;
T. McMaster’s Dalkeith Diamond
2nd, 6th and h.c.
15m and under 18m: J-
Allen’s South Boorook Diamond,
1, and South Boorook Canley, 6


Pipe
"EXTRA
ACRES"
to your
property
. . . with
:
&
'-‘vi m
4^
;-4 " 1 ' :v:. , jJ
■ ■ .!-.>■
*' .£ *«S
m :' '
:
.
mm
‘?vz ■ ;
■
:■:
: ■ i
1111
iff
ssj*
£
PROFIT-PLANNED
IRRIGATION
SYSTEMS
Double the carrying
capacity of your land
—take off two or
three crops where you once got one!
Graziers, oreha.'dists, dairymen are doing
this right now getting big profits from
the "extra acres" that Ames Irrigation brings
in greater yields, better quality. Plan now
for certain prosperity. An Ames profit-
planned system will set you on your feet.
It s engineered by experts—soil, water avail-
ability, crops, climate, etc., are all co-ordin-
ated into an individual system and watering
schedule. It’ll put "new acres" on your
property in months—pay for itself in no time.
LARGEST RANGE OF EQUIPMENT
Ames has systems for every need—featuring light-
weight aluminium pipes, amazing ABC couplers,
four mechanical movement devices. No manu-
facturer can match the Ames range your
guarantee of a well - balanced, water saving,
labour-saving system.
Illustrated is highly portable "Tow-A-Line" on
wheels system. Others include: "Wheel-O-Rain"
for side-roll movement and "Perf-O-Rain" low
pressure, overhead sprinkling for precision
watering.
AMES Isis' tls© bsgsiest ref tarts Irons a crop investment!
See your local Ames Agent or contact your State Distributor.
Manufactured by
AMES IRRIGATION PTY. LTD • South Street, Rydalmere, N.5.W.
Distributed by
N.S.W.: DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH
LTD., 10-14 Young Street, Sydney.
VIC.: DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH
(Vic.) PTY. LTD., Stubbs Street,
Flemington.
QLD.: LEVIN & CO. LTD., Margaret
Street, Brisbane. DALGETY & CO.,
Cairns and Townsville.
S.A.: LEVIN & CO. LTD., Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
W.A.: HARRIS, SCARFE & SANDOVERS
LTD., Hay Street, Perth.
TAS.: H. D. CRUICKSHANK & CO., New
Town, Hobart.
N.Z.: A. M. BISLEY & CO. LTD., Hamilton
and Christchurch.


$
m
osSJ
m
THE
SOUTH BRITSSH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents rn
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and
O Connell Sis.,
Sydney
H V. Lawry,
Manager.
and h.c.; Timor White Bros.’
Timor Velocity, 2; J. H. Crowe's
Gobarralong Golfer. 3; F. N. Snow
and Sons’ Cuppa Corbett, 4,__ and
Cuppa Contrast, 7 and h.c.; Fairy-
mead Sugar Co.’s Fairymead
Bradford, 5.
12m and under 15m: Fenwick
Bros.’ Myall Supreme 2nd, 1; J.
R. Allen's South Boorook Corrie,
2; P. A. Wright and Sons’ Walla-
numbi Badger, 3; Timor White
Bros.’ Timor Cottage Hero, 4;
J. E. Davies’s Rae Bon Glory, 5.
Calf, 6m and under 12m: Timor
White Bros.’ Timor Vigilant, 1 ;
Hays Bros.’ Bexley Model, 2, and
Bexley Biro, 4; Fenwick Bros.’
Myall Aristocrat, 3; W. Tanner
and Sons’ Hillcrest Impressive, 5;
J. E. Davies’s Rae Bon Harry, 6
and h.c.
COWS AND HEIFERS
Over 2y and under 3y: Fen-
wick Bros.’ Myall Carissima 60th,
1, and Myall Frolic 45th, 2; Miss
T. McMaster’s Dalkeith Fancy 6th,
3; Miss E. P. Wright's Benama
Last Day 4th, 4.
Ovqr 21m and under 2y: Turee
Station’s Turee Pearl 3rd, 1; Timor
White Bros.’ Timor Diamond 51st,
2; Fenwick Bros.’ Myall Sun-
flower sth, 3.
Over 18m and under 21m: T.
G. and Mrs. B. B. Hawkins's Myall
Gipsy Queen 69th, 1; K. P. Wright
and Son’s Lomani Butterfly 7th, 2;
Mrs. S. J. Field’s Tiverton Cori-
sande, 3; Hays Bros.’ Bexley
Leonie 31st, Mrs. R. Morrow’s
R.unnymede Maritana 6th, and
Turee Station’s Turee First Day
20th, all he.
Over 15m and under 18m: Mrs.
R. Morrow's Rupnymede Gamester
Beauty 3rd, 1 ; Fairymead Sugar
Co.’s Fairymead Duchess 24th, 2;
H. Field Pty., Ltd., Red Hill Vic-
toria’s Pet 7th, 3, and Red Hill
Novelty 11th, 4; Miss T.
McMaster’s Dalkeith Christina
11th, h.c.
Over 12m and under 15m: Timor
White Bros.’ Timor Sunbeam, 1 ;
Fairymead Sugar Co.’s Fairymead
Simplicity, 2; Turee Station’s
Turee Lvnette sth,* 3; Fenwick
Bros.’ Myall Carnation 197th, 4.
Over 6m and under 12m: Timor
White Bros.’ Timor Coming Day
37th, 1; Fairymead Sugar Co.’s
Fairymead Last Day 9th,.2; Turee
Station's Turee Una Bth, 3; S. J.
Field's Gordon Brook Winifred
3rd, 4; J. C. Hooke and Son's
Myra Maritana 28th, 5.
CHAMPIONSHIPS
Bull: J. R. Allen’s South
Boorook Dick.
Reserve: Turee Station’s Turee
Jupiter.
junior: J. R. Allen’s South
Boorook Diamond. ,
Reserve: Fenwick Bros.’ Myall
Supreme 2nd.
Grand champion cow or heifer:
Timor White Bros.’ Timor Sun-
beam.
Senior female: T. JC. and Mrs.
B. B. Hawkins’s Myall Gipsy
Queen 69th.
Reserve: Turee Station’s Turee
Pearl 3rd.
Junior: Timor White Bros.’
Timor Sunbeam.
Reserve: Fairymead Sugar Co.'s
Fairymead Simplicity.
GRAND CHAMPION
Grand champion ribbon for best
bull, any age: J. R. Allen’s South
Boorook Dick.
Grand champion cow or heifer:
Timor White Bros.’ Timor Sun-
beam.
POLL SHORTHORNS
BULLS
Bull, over 3y: Merryville Pty.
Merryville Laddie 3rd, 1, and
Bogan Monarch, 3; R. K.
McConochie’s Antrim Glen
Aiban, 2.
2y and under 3y: Gundibri
Estate Co.'s Gundibri Champagne
49th, 1, and Gundibri Champagne
6th, 4; F. G. Marshall/ Pty. Wargan-
dinna Romeo, 2; Estate of J. D.
McLarty Silver Pines Jasper, 3.
Under 2y: William Leonard and
Sons’ Welltown Cockade, 1, and
Welltown Surprise, 2; R. K.
McConochie’s Glen Mitchell
Alban Nonpareil, 3.
21m and under 2y: W. P. John-
son's Karoola Mace, 1 ; Dept, of
Agriculture R. B. ColJynie Special
sth, 2; H. and H. McFauane's
Milly Milly lvanhoe, 3; D. S. and
M. S. McLarty’s Lone Pine Regent
2nd, 4.
18m and under 21m: Peel River
McFarlane’s Milly Milly Igloo, 1;
Merryville Pty. Merryville Monarch,
2; Estate of J. D. McLarty Wyn-
yard Barter, 3; W. P. Johnson's
Karoola Model, 4; Kyalla Pty.
Greenwich Isdale, 4.
15m and under 18m: Merryville
Ply. Merryville Gay Robert, 1;
H. and H. McFariane Milly Milly
I. 2; J. McKeynes’ Prongo-
rong Equerry, 3, and Prongorong
Election, 5; J. D. Robertspn’s
Turan Count, 4.
12m and under 15m: O. R.
Gavin’s Annaville Ruler, 1; R. I.
Browne's Highbank Grand Duke,
2; Estate of J. Simson Gurley
Royal, 3 ; J. D. Robertson's Turan
Eden, 4.
Calf, 6m and under 12m: Wil-
liam Leonard and Sons’ Welltown
Cockade, 1, and Welltown Encore
2nd, 3; K. G. Mackinnon and
Sons’ Bogan Quiver, 2; R. I.
B r o w n e’s Netherby Royal
Sovereign, 4.
COWS AND HEIFERS
Cow, over 3y: Merryville Pty
Merryville Mountain Mistress 10tn,
1 ; E. H. Lee-Steere's Hawthornden
Regency, 2.
2y and under 3y: Merryville Pty.
Merryville Lassie 4th.
21m and under 2y: Merryville
Pty. Bogan Dell 2nd, 1; H. and H.
McFarlane’s Milly Milly Electra
2nd, 2.
18m and under 21m: Peel River
Land and Mineral Co.’s Peel
Lucretia, 1; K. G. Mackinnon and
Sons’ Bogan Fujisan, 2; William
Leonard and Sons’ Welltown
Vinalla, 3.
15m and under 18m: Merryville
Pty. Merryville Dorothy Perkins
9th. 1; K. G. MacKinnon and
Sons’ Bogan Attractive sth, 2;
Kyalla Pty. Greenwich Estelle
lolanthe, 3; H. and H. McFar-
lane’s Milly Milly Dimple’s sth, 4.
12m and under 15m: K. G. Mac-
Kinnon and Sons’ Bogan Melba
sth. 1, and Bogan Rita sth, 2;
Kyalla Pty. Greenwich Spring Day
Iris, 3; William Leonard and Sons’
Kilrush Rachael 18th, 4.
Calf, 6m and under 12m: Merry-
ville Pty. Merryville Mona 2nd. 1 ;
K. G. MacKinnon and Sons’
Bogan Amenity 4th, 2; Elsinora
Pty. Elsinora Echo 65th, 3.
GRAND CHAMPIONS
Grand champion ribbon for best
bull, any age: Merryville Pty.
Merryville Laddie 3rd.
Grand champion ribbon for best
cow or heifer, any age: Merryville
Pty. Merryville Dorothy Perkins
9th.
CHAMPIONSHIPS
Champion bull: Merryville Pty.
Merryville Laddie 3rd.
Reserve: K. G. MacKinnon and
Antrim Glen Alban.
Junior: Merryville Pty. Merry-
ville Gay Robert.
Reserve: H. and H. MacFar-
lane’s Milly Milly I.X.L.
Champion cow or heifer. Merry-
ville Pty. Bogan Dell 2nd.
Reserve: H. and H. MacFar-
lane’s Milly Milly Electra 2nd.
Junior: Merryville Pty. Merry-
ville Dorothy Perkins 9th.
Reserve: K. G. MacKinnon and
Sons’ Bogan Melba sth.
POLL HEREFORDS
BULLS
Bull over 2y: W. J. Lenehan's
Brewarrana Gallant 3rd, 1; ]q rs
N. P. Wright’s Blandford Pluto, 2-
K. G. Luke's Deepfields Keilor’ 3-
D. and M. Carnegie and Co.’s Kii
drummie Roger sth, 4.
21m and under 2y: A. W. and
F. R. Locke’s Wirruna Homer, \-
W. J. Lenehan’s Brewarrana Gal-
lant 4th, 2; R. L. McEachern's
Ardno Trump, 3.
18 m and under 21m: Mrs. N. ,P
Wright’s Blandford Lucas, 1; W. J,
Lenehan’s Brewarrana Escort 4th,
2; R. L. McEachern’s Ardno
Barrister, 3 ; R. A. Coy’s Salt Creek
Kestrel, h.c.
15m and under 18m: S. T. and
Estate of C. H. Hawkins’s Spring-
field Belle Boy, 1; W. J. Lenehans
Brewarrana Ranger 2nd, 2; R. A.
Coy’s Salt Creek Kiloran, 3; S. T.
and Estate of C. H. Hawkins’s
Springfield Fireman, 4; R. L
McEachern’s Ardno Domino, h.c.;
Mrs. N. P. Wright's Blandford
Buster, h.c.
12m and under 15m: J. W. Wil-
liamson’s Castfe Bend Lustrous, H
S. T. and Estate of C. H. Hawkins’s
Springfield Clover Boy 3rd, 2,
and Springfield Hulbert, 4; Mrs.
N. P. Wright’s Blandford Lusty,
3; Foxlow Poll Hereford Studs
Foxlow Churchill, h.c.; A. Hor-
dern Snr. Milton Sardonic
2nd, h.c.
Calf, 6m and under 12m: K. G.
Luke’s Deepfields Mentone, 1; A
Hordern Snr. Milton Atomic w
2. and Milton Justice 3rd, 4 >
W. J. Lenehan’s Brewarrana
Crusader 3rd, 3.
COWS AND HEIFERS
Cow or heifer, over 2y: S. •
and Estate of C. H. Hawkins
Springfield Maritana 3rd.
21m and under 2y: A. Horde' 11
Snr. Virginia Lass, >
and Milton Trinket 2nd, 2.
18m and under 21m: Foxlow
Poll Hereford Stud’s Foxio"
Carrie sth.
15m and under 18m: A.
dern Snr. Milton Miss Bow
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(3/ 4/’58)
Moderate rain should occur on the north coast of
Queensland during May, with light patchy rains elsewhere.
General rains are indicated in the whole of the State during
June.
Rainfall will probably be patchy in N.S.W. during May,
although moderate rain is indicated on the southern table-
lands, south-west slopes and Riverina. General rains should
occur in the whole of the State during June, with reasonably
good follow-on rains during July.
Good general rains are indicated in Victoria during
May, with the heaviest falls occurring in the east central,
upper north-east and west coast. Fairly heavy rains and
flooding are indicated' in June and July.
General rains should occur in the agricultural areas of
South Australia during May, but rainfall will probably be
light in the interior. However, general rains are indicated
in the whole of the State during June.
The Kimberleys of Western Australia should receive
good rain during May, but rainfall will probably be light
in the pastoral areas. Moderate rain is indicated in the
south-west agricultural areas, although the central and
south coasts and s.-w. central south areas should get good
rains.
High sunspot activity is continuing, and further heavy
rains and cyclonic activity should occur in Queensland and
N.S.W. this month (April).
LENNOX WALKER.


ROYAL JELLY
Direct from the bees. Fabulously
rich vitalising dietary supplement.
month’s supply, in capsules,
*'Va/-, or mixed in 6 ounces of
honey, £5. Technical data 2/(1*
Free Leaflet.
. R. A. PEACOCK I
Apiarist, 21 Carbine Street, I
HE RANG. VICTORIA.
WUNDERLICH SINKS
-outshine f them all
/ ///iil i 4 l l \ V
The brilliant NEW range of Wunderlich
Stainless Steel Sinks combines every modern
improvement in sink design. Glistening
high-shine finish, inbuilt quick-drainage
falls in bowls and drainers, anti-spill
beading on all sides, and one-piece
practical size round cornered bowls. Avail*
able with timber backing for easy fixing
over new or old cupboarding or unbacked,
if Required. See the NEW Wunderlich Sinks
at your hardware store, Phone MX 2411, or
write to Wunderlich Ltd., Box 474, G.P.0.,
Sydney, for Illustrated price list.
m
m
f
m
m
The NEW
STAINLESS
STEEL
smses
.4252
*“ THEM M I&tif stori
.. j b. A. Hicks’s Glenfield Rose
Marie, 2; R. Simson’s Moreduval
Quarrelsome 3rd, 3.
12m and under 15m: A. Hor-
dern Snr. Milton Lady Demon
sth 1 J W, O. Fairfax’s Harrington
/Vv3 j 2.
Calf, 6m and under' 12m: W. J.
Lenehan’s Brewarrana Melody, 1;
S. T. and Estate of C. H. Haw-
kins’s Springfield Wattle, 2; R. L.
McEachern’s Ardno Daisy 2nd, 3;
A. Hordern Senr. Milton Trinket
3rd, 4.
grand champions
Grand champion ribbon, for
best bull, any age: W. J.
Brewarrana Gallant 3rd.
Grand champion ribbon, for best
cow or heifer, any age: S. T.
and Estate of C. H. Hawkins’s
Springfield Maritana 3rd.
CHAMPIONSHIPS
Champion bull: W. J. Lenehan’s
Brewarrana Gallant 3rd.
Reserve: Mrs. N. P. Wright’s
Blandford Pluto.
Junior: S. T. and Estate of C,
H. Hawkins’s Springfield Belle Boy.
Reserve: K. G. Luke's Deep-
fields Mentone.
Champion cow or heifer: S. T.
and Estate of C. H. Hawkins’s
Springfield Maritana 3rd.
Reserve: A. Hordern Snr.
Milton Virginia Lass.
Junior: W. J. Lenehan’s Bre-
warrana Melody.
Reserve: S. T. and Estate of C.
H. Hawkins’s Springfield Wattle.
DEVONS
Bull, over 12 and not over 15
months: Estate of C. D. Judge’s
Ban Ban David Bth, 1; Newstead
South Pastoral Co., Pty., Ltd.’s
Newstead No. 1280, 2; Taiping
Investments (Aust) Pty., Ltd.’s
Glen Moan Brick 19th, 3.
Bull calf, over 6 and not over
12 months: Estate of C. D.
Judge’s Ban Ban 17th, 1; W. D.
Wood’s Woodbong Winalot, 2;
Mrs. J. M. Officer’s Kilmorey South
Servant 23rd, 3.
Cow or heifer, over 3 years:
Havilah Pty., Ltd.'s Havilah
Apricot 1020th, 1; Gibraltar Pty.,
Ltd.’s Havilah Plum 322nd, 2;
W. D. Wood’s Table Top Jessa-
mine 2nd, 3.
Cow or heifer, over 2 and not
over 3 years: Havilah Pty., Ltd.’s
Havilah Brassy 427th, 1.
Cow or heifer, over 21 months
and not over 2 years: Newstead
South Pastoral Co. Pty., Ltd.’s
Newstead No. 1059, 1.
Heifer, over 18 and not over 21
months: Gibraltar Pty., Ltd.’s
Retford Miss Gamlin, 1.
i Heifer, over 15 and not over
18 months: Havilah Pty., . Ltd.’s
Havilah Apricot 1180th, 1; New-
stead South Pastoral Co. Pty.,
Ltd.’s Newstead No. 1176, 2;
Havilah Pty., Ltd.’s Havilah Plum
342nd, 3.
Bull, over 2 and not over 3 years:
Estate of C. D. Judge’s Ban Ban
Havid sth, 1; Newstead South
Pastoral Co. Pty., Ltd.’s Newstead
~°- ; Table Top Estati ’s
Table Top Sailor, 3.
Bull, over 21 months and not
over 2 years: Gibraltar Pty. Ltd.’s
Retford Stockman 3rd, 1.
Bull, over 18 and not over 21
months: Estate of C. D. Judge’s
Ban Ban Barrington, 1; Mrs. J. M.
Officer’s Kilmorey South Servant
14th, 2; Gibraltar Pty., Ltd.’s Ret-
ford Golden Piece, 3.
Bull, over 15 and not over 18
months: Havilah Pty., Ltd.’s
Havilah Stockman 10th, 1 ; Havi-
lah Pty., Ltd.’s Havilah Stockman
3rd, 2; Newstead South Pastoral
Co., Pty., Ltd.’s No. 1084, 3.
GRAND CHAMPIONS
Grand champion ribbon for best
bull, any age: Estate of C. D.
Judge’s Ban Ban David 17th.
Grand champion ribbon for best
cow or heifer, any age: Havilah
Pty.’s Havilah Apricot 1020th.
CHAMPIONSHIPS
Bull: Estate of C. D. Judge’s
Ban Ban David 5th.
Reserve: Newstead South Pas-
toral Co.’s Newstead No. 890.
Junior: Estate of C. D. Judge’s
Ban Ban David 17th.
Reserve: Havilah Pty.’s Havilah
Stockman 10th.
Cow or heifer: Havilah Pty.’s
Havilah Apricot 1020th.
Reserve: Gibraltar Pty.’s Havilah
Plum 322nd.
Junior: Havilah Pty.’s Havilah
Apricot 1180 th.
Reserve: Newstead South Pas-
toral Co.’s Newstead No. 1176.
SANTA GERTRUDIS
BULLS
Under 18m: King Ranch’s
(Vic.) King Ranch Chief Joker, 1,
and Risdon Fernando, 2.
COWS AND HEIFERS
Cow or heifer, over 18m: King
Ranch (Aust.), Pty.’s Risdon
Calypso, 1.
Under 18m: King Ranch’s
(Vic.) King Ranch Duchess, 1.
CHAMPIONSHIPS
Bull: King Ranch (Vic.) King
Ranch Chief Joker.
Cow or heifer: King Ranch
(Aust.), Pty.’s Risdon Calypso.
GALLOWAYS
Bull, any age: W. H. Kater’s
Swatchfield Felix, 1.
Cow or heifer, any age: No first
prize awarded; W. H. Kater’s
Swatchfield Fidelity, 2, W. H.
Kater’s Swatchfield Fashion, 3.
DUAL-PURPOSE
RED POLLS
BULLS
Bull, over 3y: Perry Bros.’ Bun-
daleer Boid Woodfull, 1 ; R. H.
Maund’s Bundaleer Bold Hero, 2;
H. E. Stein and Son’s Bundaleer
Beau Beacon, 3.
2y and under 3y: Perry Bros.’
Bundaleer Beau Monitor, 1.
21m and under 2y: Perry Bros.’
Bundaleer Broadland, 1; Reeks
Bros.’ Bundaleer Bold Power, 2.
18m and under 21m: Perry
Bros.’ Bundaleer Beau Regal, 1.
15m and under 18m: Brig. G. S.
Hurst’s Lark Hill Torchbearer, 1.
12m and under 15m: Reeks
Bros.’ Crownlea Marquis, 1, and
Crownlea Superlative, 2.
COWS AND HEIFERS
21m and under 2y: H. E. Stein
and Son’s Bundaleer Bluewood, 1.
15m and under 18m: Perry Bros.’
Bundaleer Bonny Jay, 1.
12m and under 15m: Perry Bros.’
Bundaleer Ballereen, 1.
GRAND CHAMPIONS
Grand champion ribbon, for best
daWr a ßoiH g w P H e / r X BrOS -’ Bun '
rrl Bold Woodfull
roS o? c , ha .« 1 P lon n bbon, for best
cow or heifer, any age: Perry
Bros. Bundaleer Bonny Jay.
mAMPinAreziToc
CHAMPIONSHIPS
Bull: Perry Bros.’ Bundaleer Bold
dakef Bold Hei? MaUnd ’ S Bun '
S * HurSt ’ S
Larkhill Torchbeare r .
Reserve: Reeks Bros.’ Crownlea
Marquis
Cow or heifer: H. E. Stein and
Son’s Bundaleer Bluewood.
Junior: Perry Bros.’ Bundaleer
Reserve: Perry Bros.’ Bundaleer
Ballereen.
DAIRY SHORTHORNS
Bull, over 2y: S. T. Howe’s
Willow Park Gay Lord 33rd, 1;
Atkinson Bros.’ Theale Emperor
3rd (imp.), 2; R. H. Meaklim's
Drumneil Design 2nd, 3.
18m and under 2y: Atkinson
Bros.’ Willow Park Emperor 2nd, 1.
12m and under 18m: Atkinson
Bros.’ Willow Park Gay Lord 53rd,
1; S. T. Howe’s Bonnie View Gay
Baron 25th, 2.
COWS AND HEIFERS
T, Cow ’ over 3 ?’ in milk: Atkinson
Bros.’ Willow Park Mos* Rose
73rd, 1; R. H. Meaklim’s Drum-
neil Lassie, 2.
Under 3y> jn milk; § T
Howe’s Bonnie View Duchess 10th,
1; R. H. Meaklim’s Drumneil
Maisee sth, 2.
Bo " nie View" l 1 ' t
DuchesT 144ffi° S 2’.
TT „ , j Ail . _
n 3 l’ dry: Atkmson Bros.’
Willow Park Oornct 77tin, 1 j S. T*
S ow^’ s B ° nai f- X iew P earl 13th, 2;
Meaklim s Drumneil Rose
Zna> 3 ’
CHAMPIONSHIPS
Bull: S. T. Howe’s Willow Park
Gay Lord 33rd.
Reserve: Atkinson Bros.’ Theale
Emperor 3rd (imp.).
Cow or heifer: Atkinson Bros.’
Willow Park Comet 77th.
Reserve: S. T. Howe’s Bonnie
View Duchess sth.


Wornen's Letters
MELBOURNE
The president of the Royal Empire
Society, Lieut.-General Sir Horace
Robertson, was the guest-speaker at the
monthly luncheon of the society in the
Lower Town Hall. Among the official
guests were Brigadier and Mrs. R. W.
Tovell, Sir John Latham, Sir Archie and
Lady Michaelis, Lady Dixon, Mrs.
Olivia Gardener and Mr. and Mrs. Robert
O’Shea. Mrs. Claude Couchman was the
chairman. Among those who attended
the luncheon were Mrs. H. G. Connell,
Mrs. Beatrice Campbell (a former Lady
Mayoress) and Colonel F. H. Wright.
♦jt'
“The Bells Are Ringing,” which
opened last week at the Princess, has
gay music and clever dialogue, and lead-
ing lady Shani Wallis and co-star Bruce
Trent are very agreeable and talented.
Shani wears a succession of pretty frocks
in her role as Ella, the telephone operator,
and the chorus is also very prettily
dressed for their numbers.. Noted in the
audience were the Garnet Carrolls (she
in a charming full-skirted frock of beige
Chantilly-lace sparkling with sequins);
Dr. and Mrs. John Brenan; a family
party comprising Mr. and Mrs. Eric
Fowler, their daughter, Mrs. Desmond
Hollywood, and grand-daughter Cinders,
and another daughter, Mrs. Peter
Parker, and her daughters, Margaret
Mary and Josephine ; Evie Hayes (wear-
ing white chiffon patterned in green
leaves); Mr. and Mrs. Norman “Lynch ;
Jane Chirnside; Mr. and Mrs. James
McGauran (her grey faille frock high-
lighted with rows of ruching on the full
skirt); Mrs. Eric Thurin and Mrs. Max
Oberman ; Dy Nicholls and Sue Wilson.
■ft ft -ft
Gold, scarlet, and royal-blue figures
of dancing-girls on the tables, gold
drapings on the door, and waitresses
wearing white gold-edged yasmaks were
highlights of the Harem dinner-dance
at No. 9 Darling Street arranged by the
Toorak Old Girls’ ball-committee.
Angela Rau, the president, received the
170 guests. Ann Mackinnon was one
6f the ticket-secretaries, and Jean Mac-
donald was hon.-secretary. Among those
who dined and danced were Marsha
Turnbull (Hobart), Deirdre Hyde, Sarah
Gilder, Mr. and Mrs. Dick Collison,
Paddy Morse, Madeleine Henderson,
Susan Graham, Margaret Wallace, Robin
Root, Wendy Pisterman, Stewart Austin,
Guilford Bell, Tony Osborn, Sue Dodds
and her fiance, Jim Perry.
ft ☆ ☆
When Elma Stuart, only daughter of
Mrs. L. Cole, of Seagrove, Merricks, was
married at St. Paul’s Cathedral, she wore
a full-skirted gown of fine white embroi-
dered cotton. A headdress of similar
material held the fingertip veil, and she
carried a bouquet of small white orchids
and stephanotis. Matron-of-honor Mrs.
John Hyde and bridesmaid Anne White
wore white linen princess-line frocks
with front pane i s 0 f guipure-lace,
Flower-girls Davina Lyne and Meredith
Stone were dressed in short white
organdie frocks with blue sashes and
bj ue Alice-bows in their hair. Bridegroom
Adrian Nicholas, who is the eldest son of
Air-Marshal and Mrs. A. T. Cole, of
Camperdown, had John Lyne as best
man v/illiam Nankivill was groomsman,
Reception for 150 guests was held in the
banquet room at Menzies Hotel.
Next Saturday, April 19, Mrs. Leo
Guest’s only daughter Jan will leave for
a 12-months trip abroad, during which
she will attend a conference of occu-
pational therapists in Copenhagen. The
day after she leaves Mr. and Mrs. Guest
will celebrate their silver-wedding and the
following day (April 21) Mrs. Guest will
be a mannequin at the auction of cloth-
ing donated by leading manufacturers to
the Your Opportunity committee. This
function will be at 9.30 a.m. in the Lower
Town Hall and proceeds will go to the
Thornbury Opportunity Youth Club.
Glorious flowers in white, pink and
gold decorated the Royale Ballroom for
the Loreto Old Girls’ Association ball,
at which 1000 guests (a record) were
present. Proceeds from the ball will go
to the building fund of Mandeville Hall.
The president of the association, Mrs.
Leslie Smith, and her husband, Dr.
Smith, received the official guests ; later
in the evening 34 debs, were presented
to Mrs. Smith. They all wore individual
white frocks and carried trails of
gardenias, azaleas and nerines. Mrs.
Smith wore a beautiful French-satin
brocade gown in mist-blue. Also in the
official party was Mrs. W. Falvey, who
represented the Loreto school, Mary’s
Mount, Ballarat. Secretary of the
association (Mrs. W. Boden) chose a
gown of dove-grey silk-organza, and
the hon. treasurer, Mrs. F. Knowles,
one of pastel-pink satin-brocade
embroidered in pale-mauve sequins and
gold beads.
Cr. and Mrs. Leo Curtis brought a
party which included Lady Connolly
and Mr. and Mrs. W. McGowan (who
saw daughter Anne make her debut)
and Dr. and Mrs. Emmet Spring. Mr.
and Mrs. Vic Roche also brought a
party, which included U.S. Asst. Air
Force Attache, Major L. J. Donnelly, and
Mrs. Donnelly, and Mr. and Mrs. Bill
Glover. Dr. Frank Hurley was accom-
panied by his fiancee Joan Lightfoot
(he represented Xavier College), and
with Mr. Frank Galbally was his wife.
He announced the debs., and Mrs.
Galbally looked after them until it was
time for them to make their bow.
v v v
An old Mandeville Hall girl now doing
first-year Law at the University, Gabrielle
Adams, second daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Arthur Adams, made her debut at
a dance given by her parents at No. 9
Darling Street. Gabrielle chose a full-
length gown of white re-embroidered
French-lace with flat bows of white satin
set on the shoulders. Her mother wore
a sheath-gown with a floating back-
panel of turquoise-blue satin. Gabrielle’s
sister Julianna wore a short, full frock
of pink-embroidered white linen finished
with a cummerbund of pink satin. The
guest-of-honor’s grandmother, Mrs.
W. H. Murphy, chose a deep royal-blue
and black satin frock. Dr. and Mrs.
Harry Sinn were other members of the
family at the dance (she wearing a short
full frock of pink faille embroidered with
silver motifs). Dr. John Billings (he is
Gabrielle’s godfather) and his wife, and
Dame Mary Daly were also present.
Young guests included Elizabeth
Clowes, Jane Goulding, Jennie Gowans,
Margaret Niall, Adrienne Williams, Joan
O’Loughlin, Virginia Feeley (she made
her debut the next night at the Loreto
ball), Sally O’Driscoll, John Burgess,
Billy Sinn, John Cade, Damien Wimpole,
Peter Kelly and Nicholas Diamond.
*
ft ft ft
Diana and Faye Laurens were joint
hostesses at a very gay dance in the
Toorak home of their parents, Mr. and
Mrs. George, Laurens. Their brother
Peter assisted in the entertainment of
the young guests. Diana chose a short
bouffant frock fashioned of swathings
of dark- and light-blue silk-taffeta. Faye’s
lampshade-frock of shell-pink taffeta
was caught here and there with pink
rosebuds.
Among the dancers were Rosemary
Armytage, whose chose a junior-blue
satin frock which had white roses in the
bodice and at the hem of the sheath-
skirt ; Janet Sale, who wore with her


deep-cream tulle frock a silk-lace stole ;
Deanna Day, in the back waist of whose
nastel-pink silk-taffeta frock white lilac
was set ; Louise Home, in white organza ;
Rosita Morell, her white princess-line
frock sewn with pearls; and Barbara
Lane, who wore a striking white-and-
tangerine patterned-frock.
Other guests were Sue Pleasance,
Wendy McCauley, Caroline Barrett,
juiie McLaren, Virginia Finlay, Diana
Cooper (who will marry Wilfred Dungan
at Melbourne Grammar School Chapel
later in the year), Penny Braham (her
marriage to Dr. Paul Ross will take place
at the Toorak Road Synagogue on
July 3), David Jones, Carl Dowd, Neville
Day, Peter Mitchell and Philip Turner.
SYDNEY
There is at last an autumnal nip in the
air of Sydney, for which all are truly
grateful, though the mosquitoes have
not yet taken their departure and still
rage ravenously through the night, seek-
ing whom they may devour. Summer
dresses have not yet been put away, and
the patterned skirts the young girls are
wearing still give information on history,
geography and the arts. Another source
of pictorial education is the tea-towel
which can now be consulted as to such
things as the signs of the zodiac, the
number of calories in an avocado pear (a
fantastic number, by the way) and the
art of the Egyptians. The overhead
roadway to the bridge is now well in use
and the rows of brilliant lights near the
Conservatorium give the city quite a
lively air. Most motorists have by now
mastered the entries to the road, and
there are but a few cases like that of the
unfortunate lady who, wishing to call
for her daughter at the Con., became
confused with the traffic-signals in
Macquarie Street and had to go right to
Crows Nest on the North side before she
could turn round.
# # n-
There must have been scarcely a
woman or girl in the whole of Australia
who did not shed a tear for the passing of
Ethel Turner, and to recall the many,
many tears they shed over the death of
Judy, the most beloved of her creations.
Although Ethel Turner (Mrs. H. R.
Curlewis) wrote 40 books for children
in the 86 years of her lifetime, it is by
Seven Little Australians that she is
remembered best. The family at Misrule
revolutionised the type of character
thought suitable for children’s amuse-
ment and swept away the tradition of the
goody-goody.”
Ethel Turner, born in England,
arrived in Australia at the age of nine
and was educated at Sydney Girls’ High
which was then situated in
Castlereagh Street. Present students of
me school, including the captain,
v. nnstine Topping, formed a guard-of-
nonor at the funeral, and many
ex-students were present at St. Andrews
athedral for the service. Ethel Turner’s
aughter Jean (Mrs. L. Charlton), also a
writer of children’s books, died at the age
of 30. Her husband was the well-known
Judge Herbert Raine Curlewis ; her son
Adrian is also a judge and her grandson
lan a barrister. She has one grand-
daughter, Philippa, and a little great-
grand-daughter, born in February.
V 's■ V
, Two engagements of special note this
week: that of Susan Potter, daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Alan Potter, of Bellevue
Hill, to George Bullock, son of Dr.
and Mrs. Howard Bullock, of Macquarie
Street; and that of actress June Salter
to actor John Meillon. They are to
co-star in the Phillip Street Theatre’s next
revue, which is scheduled to start on May
3. June is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
A. Salter, of Brighton-le-Sands. John is
the son of Mr. and Mrs. Theo Meillon,
of Mosman.
Mrs. N. P. Downer has been appointed
secretary of the Loyal Orange Institution
of N.S.W.; it is the first time in the
history of the Institution in Australia
that a woman has held an executive
position. Mrs. Downer is the widow of
the late Grand Master, Mr. Aubrey D.
G. Downer. Last year Mrs. Downer
received the Institution's Order of Merit
for the work she has done for Orangeism
for a number of years. This award also
made history; it was the same Order of
Merit which had been previously pre-
sented to her husband —a gold emblem
—a bar being added to indicate its dual
honor. It is believed to be the only one
of its kind in the world. Photo by Norton
Trevaire.
The wedding of Belinda White and
John Nixon at St. Mark’s, Darling Point,
naturally drew many country and inter-
state visitors, as Belinda is the only
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Rex White, of
Burren Burren,, Collarenebri, and John
is the son of the late Mr. Adam Nixon
and of Mrs. Nixon, of Oakhampton,
Manilla. Pearl satin made the bride’s
classic dress, and her bridesmaids—
Pamela Cobcroft, Nancye Nixon,
Pamela White and Ann Bucknell —wore
lilac organza and violet satin caps. The
reception for more than 200 guests was
held at the Royal Sydney Golf Club.
* -ft *
Another wedding to attract a great
deal of attention was that of Test
cricketer Bob Simpson to Meg McCarthy,
only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. M.
McCarthy, of Sydney. The bride’s dress
was bouffant in white tulle with silver
spots ; her bridesmaids, Margaret Wright
and Robyn Williams, wore blue tulle
dresses with matching curvettes. Aus-
tralian Test-cricket captain lan Craig
was best man at the wedding, which was
held at St. Mark’s Catholic Church,
Drummoyne. Mr. and Mrs. Simpson
will make their home in Perth.
v v v
“The Great Sebastians,” that delight-
fully amusing show about mind-readers
caught-up in politics, opened at the
Royal on Saturday night with Roger
Livesey and Ursula Jeans and a large
cast which includes Margaret Wolfit
(daughter of the famous actor, Sir Donald
Wolfit) and Geraldine Ward, whose
mother, also Geraldine Ward, was an
Australian singer of note, especially in
Gilbert and Sullivan productions. The
Liveseys motored over to Sydney from
Adelaide So that they could see the
country. They said they particularly
remembered .Wagga, but then all visitors
remember Wagga ; there is something
about the name (apart from the beauty
of the town) which impresses them.
☆ ☆ *
By the way, the Liveseys pronounce
their name as in “to live,” not as in
“alive.” It is a Yorkshire name and
there is a hamlet of Livesey in those
parts.
☆ ☆ *
Treat of the week will be the opening
at the Empire Theatre on Thursday of
the New York City ballet, which ranks
with the Covent Garden and Bolshoi
Ballets in world supremacy. x There are
80 dancers the company, and during
their limited stay of eight weeks they
will give four changes of programme.
☆ ☆ ☆
A new wing at the Women’s College,
Sydney University, was officially opened
on Saturday by Lady Slim. It contains
31 single bedroom-studies (already
occupied by students), a flat for vice-
principal Miss Peg Clark, three music-
rooms, a new common-room with large
windows and views of the garden, three
bathroom-blocks, three laundry-blocks,
and three kitchenettes where students can
prepare suppers and odd snacks. The
architect is Miss Ellice Nosworthy, a
graduate of Sydney University. Students
in residence are mainly from the country,
and college principal Miss Doreen
Langley said that with the new wing the
college now accommodates 123 students.
There’s a waiting-list of over 50.


I followed Bill out into the
pouring rain.
Instantly I was soaked, but
the gin-flushed skin of my
naked torso didn’t feel the
streams of cold rain-water run-
ning down it. Soon we had left
the circle of the ship’s lights, and
then the only light was that
cast by my torch. The pier-
proper extended from a cause-
way which jutted out from the
beach; a causeway made of
coral - rock bulldozed into
position.
Sam was crouched halfway
down the side of the causeway
trying to reach Tiny, who was
12ft. or 15ft. below us when my
torch picked him up. He was
floundering around in a couple
of feet of water among coral
boulders, stark naked'.
Sam quickly explained. “I
told him to take his clothes off
and chuck them up so that
they wouldn’t get wet.”
As we were in a tropical
downpour I couldn’t quite see
Sam’s logic, but it wasn’t the
time or place for a discussion.
Clambering down the jagged
coral slope I joined Sam and
together we grabbed Tiny’s
hands and pulled him up to the
top. It wasn’t until we had
rescued him that I realised that
we had dragged his naked
body, belly downwards, over
raw coral-rock. Drunk as I
was, I winced a little at the
thought; as for Tiny, his
curses had become quite
incoherent.
Collecting Tiny’s sodden
clothes and the six bottles of
gin, our little convoy weaved
off the causeway and turned
up the road which ran between
the bush and the beach, the
wavering beam of my torch
pointing the way through
curtains of rain.
The shock of the fall, plus a
prodigious quantity of booze,
had precipitated Tiny into the
last stages of drunkenness. His
lanky limbs jerked woodenly
as he staggered along, still
naked save for his Army-boots,
his neck craned back at an
unnatural angle, eyes staring
wildly and flecks of foam
forming at the corners of his
lips. After a few yards more
he collapsed ; with a salvo of
entreaties and curses we got
him back on his feet. His roll-
ing eyes suddenly focused on
me and he stared as if in great
surprise. A bony hand suddenly
clutched out towards me,
followed by his lurching body.
“Come here, Morris,” he
gasped. Somehow his drink-
sodden memory - cells had
remembered that my name,
Austin, was the same as that
of a car, and they had desper-
ately fished-out a car-name.
I stepped back from him
automatically and he followed
up, still gasping and mouth-
ing, “Morris, I want y\”
My reverse pace quickened.
“That’s it,” shouted Sam;
“run up the road and he’ll
follow you.”
Tiny snarled like a madman
and jumped after me in a
sudden surge of hysterical
strength. And off we went.
It had all the quality of a
nightmare. Here I was, my
pounding feet squelching water
along a bush track, in a blind-
ing rainstorm on a pitch-black
night, on an island halfway
around the world from any-
where —with a naked, crazy
Australian sobbing and scream-
ing after me. One of the
bottles of gin clasped to my
streaming chest slipped and
crashed on the track, bringing
an anguished scream from
Sam: “Watch the grog!”
THE road turned uphill and
soon the gradient was too
much for Tiny. He collapsed
again. The other two joined
me and Sam took oyer. His
idea was to make as if to fight
Tiny, to entice him to his feet
“Get up and fight, you
belonda barstid,” he snarled
threatening Tiny , with his
fists and using a flow of invec>
five in the English language
the like of which I have never
heard before or since.
As the muttering Tiny
heaved himself upwards Sam
turned to me and explained
with a drunken man’s earnest-
ness, “Don’t be worried, I love
the little b , he’s me best
pal.”
Too late I saw Tiny’s figure
lurch up in the darkness outside
the splash of light of my torch;
his long arm had already
started its swing. A set of bony
knuckles smacked Sam right
in the mouth as he was still
talking to me. Sam staggered
backwards, gasping with pain.
Yet another, bottle of gin
crashed on the stony track.
Cursing. with anger at the
blow and the loss of grog, Sam
lashed back at Tiny, knocking
him down with a flurry of
blows and a vicious kick
in his naked ribs. Then he
turned back to me to finish
what he was saying.
“I love the b ”; his
voice rose to a scream—“but
he’s had it this time” —and he
turned once more on Tiny, who,
defiant to the last, was trying
to stand up and renew the
fight. Sam’s blows knocked
him down again and his heavy
boots thudded into the naked
body until Tiny lay still.
I gazed dully at the uncon-
scious Australian outlined by
my torch. The rain beat down
on the crumpled, naked body
lying in a small rivulet of
water. The great Army-boots
at the end of his skinny legs
looked pathetically incon-
gruous. I wondered, quite
without feeling, if Sam had
killed him.
Bill, my opposite-number,
suddenly came to life. He
seemed to have sobered-up a
lot.
“You’ve done all you can,
Sparks, you’d better go back to
your ship.”
“Yeah,” added Sam, “we’ll
be all right. I’ll look after
Tiny ; he’ll be O.K. with me.”
This final touch of uncon-
scious Australian humor from
Sam, who’d just about beaten
his charge to death, made me
smile despite the great weari-
ness which was sweeping over
me.
I nodded, made my goodbyes
and lurched off down the hill-
fast succumbing to alcohol and
exhaustion. As I reached the
bottom a strange noise above
the drumming of the rain made
me pause and look back, t
could faintly make out three
BORDER COUNTRY
To cross this country is to know the last
Entity and camp of green before the dry
And colorless acres. It is a country to breathe
Deeply in, that a memory may be taken ;
To love past sight, that it may not be forgotten
Wherever in the rainless land we move.
Not then the violet of its valleys and the wren
With the piccolo song above its pebbled creeks,
But the unseen images from which each breaks
Become our seeking, felt as a bright design
Tinkling in the mind like a bellbird scale in shade
When the tokens of their value are left behind,
When the watercolor wing and petal fade.
There is no other way to that other country s
“So when the wayside tree as l sing
Throbs like a harp-string making a note,
The song is to me as wind to my wing,
Life and the day in my flight and throat.”
“And as I, from the dark rock crevices,
Inch for a finger’s length to shine,
My sweetness is earth’s as all beauty is,
And the age and strength of the earth are mine.”
That other country, met on a step that snaps
Dead twigs, wavers in a tilting mirror light.
The whirlwind lifts its smoky shaft of dust
To spin the sun in haze. The sandstone grasses,
Smouldering russet, brush and char the plain.
The river flickers out in waterholes.
The apostle-bird drops from the coolibah.
Thought and speech are still and out of reach
There, with no wren singing into the hill.
But what we seek in this border land, the sense
Each impulse figures of bodily belonging
Which is the bird’s and violet’s, outlasts
In memory spinifex and mindlessness.
It is the only way to that other country,
Found in a kneeling eagerness like hunger
Among the falls of fern and water, and under
The banks that spray the clover at the bees*
So shall we see, though not express the vision,
Earth’s idyll which in worship is our own
Continuing beyond the land we enter
When the dead twigs snap and the whirlwind spins the sun,
And in this assurance be not lost but bear
The butterfly pack of beauty on our shoulders
To unroll and lie down in again somewhere.
QUEENSLAND.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.


dark shapes on the crest of the
kill, and all three —I solemnly
swear it —were singing their
heads off. My failing senses
registered amazement, my last
memory of that night. I have
no idea how I returned to the
ship or missed falling off that
pier.
A COUPLE of hours later I
was roused by the Chinese
boy and I swung out of my
bunk ready to start another day.
The room was a shambles.
Scores of empty beer-bottles
stood in neat rows under the
wash-basin —the Chinese boy’s
perks for cleaning-up after
parties. Some Australian gin
had been spilled on the top of
my desk and had burnt white,
leprous scars in the wood.
Varnish, mahogany-stain and
the very wood itself had been
bleached white. My stomach
shrivelled at the sight.
Strangely enough my hang-
over was mild, due, I think, to
the very short sleep (a long sleep
after boozing I always find
fatal) and after breakfast I felt
quite healthy.
Returning to my room about
9 a.m., I found Sam and Bill
sitting there as large as life.
“Hallo, Sparks,” they greeted
me; “we’ve lost Tiny. You
seen him?”
Over a couple of beers their
story unfolded. Bill had made
his ship all right, but Sam had
slept in the bush (I thought of
the rain and shuddered), making
his way to the camp after day-
light, to find no trace of Tiny.
I recalled Tiny’s unclothed con-
dition, and after a couple of
beers more we decided to go
and look for him ; that is, Sam
and I, as Bill had to return to
his ship.
The rain had stopped and
the sun was shining as we
wandered through the bush to
the Army camp a couple
of miles away, shouting
“Tiny”—but we found no sign
of him. Some of the Aus-
tralians at the camp said that
the Dutch had just reported
that there was a naked madman
running around the bush and
they presumed it was an Aus-
tralian.
K “Oh, hell! ” we both groaned.
‘That's Tiny,” and we resumed
our search.
As the sun climbed higher we
sweated-out the beer until
finally, in disgust, we trailed
back to the camp—there to find
Tiny stretched out on a camp-
bed. F
He greeted us both with a
cheery smile—apparently with
no hangover at all. He was now
clad in a pair of jungle-green
underpants and his boots. His
"I THOUGHT that trade-in Was a bomb !"
long skin body
mn °, f y y ,
masa '° f sprap f' abraslo " s >
f ratehea a "d and on the
brown skin of his lean ribs
* nd f hips '. ug,y dark bruises
were (ormin S-
°ut of the welter of greetings
and questions Tiny began his
story:
“I don’t remember leaving
the ship. It was broad daylight
when I came-to and I was
running through the bush with
no clothes on.”
j had to interrupt. “What do
y OU mean—came-to while you
were running?”
“Yeah, that’s right,” said
Tiny. “I was running like hell
through the bush when I came-
to.”
I looked around at the other
Australians, but they seemed to
see nothing strange in this,
There were quite a number of
them in the large tent, jnost of
them taking no notice whatever,
Bewildered, I returned to Tiny,
Apparently, after coming-to,
he stopped running, realised he
was naked and lost, and then
had stumbled after a while on
a road. Crouching behind a
bush to hide his nakedness he
had tried without success to
thumb a lift, so he pulled a
large leaf off a banana-plant
and, holding it in front of him
like an apron, ventured on
to the road. Clad in his banana-
leaf he tried to flag-down the
next jeep, which unfortunately
contained Dutchmen with their
womenfolk. The jeep had
accelerated madly, leaving him
in the middle of the road
waving his leaf in anger.
Tiny continued his tale:
“Just then I saw a bloody
boong, so I chased after him
and caught him.”
My heart was filled with
sympathy for that native. I
could just imagine him scurry-
ing down the road with a great,
naked Australian bounding
after him, yelling curses in two
languages. Fortunately, Tiny’s
Malay calmed the poor wretch
and he led Tiny to his hut, gave
him a pair of underpants and
then took him to the Army
camp.
“Where the hell’s my clothes,
anyway? My Army-papers and
pay book are in them,” finished-
up Tiny.
had to confess we hadn’t
a clue, and Sam said he
had lost his hat as well. I then
told Tiny about his fall off the
pier—that was when he took
off his clothes.
“That must have been when
I banged my ribs, because
they hurt like hell,” complained
Tiny, gently rubbing his side.
Sam nodded sympathetically.
I looked at him in unbelief.
“Don’t you two remember
scrapping?” I blurted out.
They both looked at me in
surprise and their faces lit-up
with smiles.
“Were we?” they said
together.
Seeing that they weren’t
upset about it I explained the
circumstances of the fight and
how Sam had kicked Tiny
unconscious.
Their mirth was uproarious
as they looked at each other.
“Hell!” said Sam, still
choking with laughter. “We’ll
have to have a drink on that.”
He reached down into his
locker and pulled out a bottle
of gin.
He pulled out the cork and
as he did so the various other
gravediggers lying half-asleep
on their camp-beds came to life
and joined our circle, sound-
lessly presenting their enamel
mugs to Sam.
With about an inch of raw
gin in our mugs we all took
a swig. Tiny leaned back on
his pillow, wincing a little with
pain—then smiled contentedly
as the raw gin burned its way
through his guts.
“I’m flying home to Aus-
tralia tomorrow,” he said, “and
I’ve got no gear, money,
uniform, Army-papers or any-
thing. Just me boots and these
underpants I got off' the
boong.”
His manner suggested it was
mildly regrettable but of no
real consequence.
I looked at the other Aus-
tralians, but they seemed to
regard it in the same light.
“Not only that, but me best
pal just about kicks me bloody
ribs in.”
Sam broke into delighted
chuckles again.
“And you know what?” Tiny
continued, looking at me. “Last
night was the best night-out
I ever had in me life.”
Completely and utterly
defeated, I drank my gin in
silence.


but with its unbearably high tempera-
tures under its clouds of carbon-dioxide
it does not sound very inviting.
Mars is possibly suitable for lichens;
but, “We might as well dismiss once
for all the attractive or frightening
picture ... of a race of Martians with
pointed toes and noses cruising about
in comfortably appointed flying-
saucers.” The canals are not canals
and probably don’t exist at all.
Jupiter, Uranus and Neptune consist
of a small rocky core, surrounded by
huge mantles of ice and, because of
their poisonous atmospheres of
ammonia and methane, “organic life
in any imaginable form seems ruled-
out.” One theory that makes Jupiter
even lesk attractive is that it is com-
posed almost wholly of solid hydrogen.
Saturn, whirling in its rings of “snow-
pellets,” seems to be full of frozen
ammonia and bands of methane ; and
“very little” —and that apparently not
favorable—can be said for Pluto.
The universe certainly does not
appear to be fit for human habitation.
However, the same sort of thing has
often enough been said about Canberra,
so perhaps there is hdpe yet.
“The Astronomer’s Universe” is
based on lectures given at Canberra
University College in 1957, and Pro-
fessor Bok hopes it will interest “the
intelligent and enquiring layman.”
This reviewer, alarmed beyond measure
by some of Professor Bok’s “relatively
simple calculations” about the trigo-
nometric parallax and other such
horrors, would prefer to see a book
for the unintelligent layman ; but, by
dint of travelling at the speed of light
over page 31, it is still possible to pick
up some most stimulating information:
in particular, about the origin of the
solar-system, which appears now to
have begun with a whimper rather than
a bang; about the theory of the
expanding universe and the fascinating
corrective suggested by the young
British cosmologists who believe that,
though still rushing madly off in all
directions, the universe is nevertheless
filling itself up again by “the continuous
creation of matter”; and about “the
cosmic time-scale,” under which, if it
isn’t entirely inaccurate, the earth is
no more than seventeen to twenty
(cosmic) years old.
PaThfinding
There is a carpenter-bee in South
Africa which always bores its burrow
on the south-east side of a dead tree.
This is because the rain-bearing winds
come from the north-west, and the
carpenter-bee cannot tolerate damp-
ness, which gives it a fungus-disease.
Thus, if you are in South Africa
and do not wish to get lost, and have
read Harold Gatty’s Nature is Your
Guide (Collins), all you have to do is
find the burrow of a carpenter-bee and
take-off from there.
To a reviewer whose greatest
difficulty is in navigating from Wynyard
to “The Bulletin” office this seems,
though informative, rather remote ; and
even if in another chapter there are
instructions on how to find your way
about a city by observing the weight of
foliage on different sides of the trees
or studying the weathering of bridges,
it still seems just as easy to ask a police-
man.
On the other hand, it would be amus-
ing to study the weathering of police-
men ; it is refreshing to look at the
trees from this practical viewpoint;
and if “Nature is Your Guide” (sub-
titled “How to Find Your Way on
Land and Sea”) remains a little prosaic,
more in the style of a text-book than
a Nature-book, it certainly contains
many interesting and curious facts: that
bees can tell each other the time, for
instance; that Fijian fisherman can
hear sharks approaching through the
water ; that various plants can indicate
the presence of metals, including gold
and uranium ; that Sweet William and
Canterbury Bells (among many other
plants) are useful direction-finders
because they like to turn their heads
to the sun ; and that it is no use try.
ing to use an emu as a water-
indicator. . . .
One of the most intriguing sets of
facts relates to the ancient Polynesian
voyagers ; and here, if Gatty does not
agree with Heyerdahl’s theory of migra-
tion from America, it is obvious that
he would also have disagreed with the
latest theory of “accidental” voyages:
for he explains how the Polynesians
navigated by the stars, and how they
could deduce the presence of land and
find the direction to it by following the
shining cuckoo from the Solomons or
the long-tailed cuckoo from Tahiti—•
“there is no doubt whatever that,
season after season, the Polynesians
watched the bird-migration ; and when
they were confident that they had found
a consistent flyway they set out to
follow it.”
Master of Balliol
Sir Geoffrey Faber’s life of Jowett
(Faber) would give up its full flavor
to academics only; the life-and-death
struggles that are fought for position
and power in universities have only
vague significance for those who have
BATTERY POINT
(For Morris Miller)
Of course the houses were built huddled
together
stuttering uphill and down in a kind of
involuntary symmetry,
solidly built though, because of the yvind
and the weather,
and the assurance somehow provided by
proximity
v {down, phantom, down).
ry,,. i, , rj.,
This block now, Thomas Evans was the
, / »• /.
builder, notice the fanlight,
).n , „ „
you can make out the name on the corner-
J , j joc 7 ./ / ,
stone and 1857, the date,
why was h called Mona Lodge ? well, it’s
possible lie might
have been thinking of some place he once
knew and wished to perpetuate
{down, phantom, down).
v
Splendid view you get from here, right
out over the bay,
like a great silken hanging ruffled with
sudden gales, _
1 remember the old fourmasters tacking
slowly up to the quay,
now it’s the yachts that fleck the shifting
shadows with their sails
{down, phantoms, down).
*
Yes, the stone is good, and has weathered
uncommonly well
it can be bitterly cold in the winter with
the hail and sleet,
but it’s changed very little—in the quiet
you can hardly tell
there’s any traffic at all only that low
thrumming beat
{down, phantoms, down),
Some of the same families still around,
tbe convicts you know,
but B°od workmen, inbred perhaps, but
the younger ones don’t stay,
more opportunities on the mainland,
, , ,
where most of them go —
, . . , „ . ° , ■..
of uy natural after all, though some do
J ,’ , °
come back l dare say
, , , , / , ,
<IW "- Phantoms, down).
J he people squalling on Iheir doorsteps
t it At
the road will,
~ , .
their nonchalant swing —
and the slack of a thread is insensibly
drawn tight :
/or the children playing over there around
ln { f ie r j n „
{and phantoms may frown)
are the same children 1 knew playing the
same games
Those curtains neatly looped back in a
watchful reticence—
everywhere floods the reality of faces,
frontages, names.
Is there a corner where l have not turned,
baffled the disseverance ?
{Scatter, phantoms, or drown!)
BRYN DAVIES.


CRY OF THE STORM-BIRD
X R. SPICER
An enthralling novel of life on a Queensland cattle station.
At all booksellers 20/-
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
A New Novel by Vance Palmer
SEEDTIME
Set in Queensland, the latest novel by the author of The Passage is the story
of Macy Donovan, a tough, out-spoken member of parliament. The political
manoeuvres and the conflicts of the family of the girl who falls in love with him
make a really good story which mirrors Vance Palmer’s deep understanding
° f at all booksellers and... 17 >' <P OS * 10d >'
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
never studied there, and who have never
mastered the complicated jargon of
nomenclature with which their jobs are
made awe-inspiring.
Benjamin Jowett, son of impoverished
middle-class parents, showed such
brilliance at Latin at St. Paul’s School,
London, that he was entered for a
scholarship at Balliol, Oxford, which
he won against men much older and
more experienced. He was early made
a Fellow, became extraordinarily
popular as a tutor; was made Oxford’s
Regius Professor of Greek, and
eventually became Master of Balliol
and Vice-Chancellor of the University.
His monument for our times is his
translation of Plato.
But for his own times his widest
fame was notoriety; he was one of
the group of Church of England
authors on the back-swing from
Newman’s Oxford Movement; they
challenged interpretation of the
Scriptures. . For his part, some com-
mentaries and an essay op the doctrine
of Atonement, in which he denied Hell,
Jowett narrowly escaped a church-
trial which might have cost him his
living.
Faber, whose name and sympathies
are closer to the Oxford movement,
makes a clear study of Jowett, and if
it seems a little cold it must be
admitted that Jowett was not exactly a
hot number; he inspired admiration
and devotion in his students—for the
coolness, and maybe a little of the
sweetness, of his temperament; but it
was all in the head. When he gave
away the only affair which, late in his
life, might have led to marriage, it was
because of Florence Nightingale; and
not because of Florence the woman,
but because of her brilliant mind.
There are portraits, too, of his
friends and enemies: Dean Stanley,
biographer of Arnold of Rugby,
Arnold’s best pupil, but much too
good for this world; Pusey, who hated
Jowett, yet fought to get him reason-
able pay as Professor of Greek (it was
then £4O a year); Jenkyns, the Master
of Balliol who listened at keyholes
and yet had the respect and affection
of the college; Scott, who was brought
back to Balliol to defeat Jowett for
the Mastership, and then made Dean
of Rochester so that Jowett might get
the position; Swinburne, Jowett’s most
brilliant pupil, studying a Jowett trans-
lation from the Greek, and saying,
Another howler, Master!” and
Jowett replying meekly, “Thank you,
Algernon; thank you.” Though, says
bir Geoffrey, this one must have been
ben trovato; there was evidently a
touch of iron” in Jowett which made
such relaxation, even with a favorite
a ud friend, hard to believe.
Faber has a few stem words with
Previous biographers for building-up
Jowett’s career to his greatness as
Master of Balliol, but he rather does
the same thing himself, and then has
hardly anything to say—so much of a
mastership goes in administration and
the forming of other men’s minds. For
this reason more might have been said,
especially by a biographer who is also
one of the best publishers London ever
had, on Jowett’s translations. Maybe
the wealthy young lords who secured
him the Mastership considered that his
apotheosis, but for present times the
quality and standing of his translations
are of much more interest.
Reviewed Briefly
The Gods Are Angry: Wilfrid
Noyce (Heinemann). Noyce wrote
“South Col,” an account of the Everest
expedition ; now, in a novel, he sends
six Europeans up Changma. an
imaginary 26,410 ft. Himalayan
monster. His introductory section is
disproportionate to the main part of
the action, and what is described as an
“inevitable clash of personalities”
resolves into a few wrangles between
stock types, but the mountaineering
parts of it are as vivid as one would
expect.
* * * *
The Wedded Life: Christopher
Arnold (Seeker and Warburg). A first-
novel in which a young married couple
are thrown into an English provincial-
city underworld through Frank
Thomas, a homosexual. Thomas
befriends a juvenile gangster ; when he
tries to take the boy 'away the gang
moves in. What happens to the various
people, not least the married couple,
who ultimately find their marriage
strengthened, makes absorbing reading.
The dialogue is handled surely, and the
atmosphere of the shadowy half-
world of spivs and petty racketeers is
convincingly painted.
* * # #
Rhythm in the Heavens: Ram Gopal
(Seeker and Warburg). Autobiography
of the Indian dancer. The book is a
queer mixture of East and West with
Gopal’s Indian background and Euro-
pean career: dancing naked in a
thunderstorm in his childhood in a
garden full of tropic flowers, then
taking tea with Queen Mary, or playing
tennis with Anton Dolin. The Indian
chapters are the best of it, being
“different”; but all of it will interest
balletomanes.
* * * *
Rotha on the Film: Paul Roth a
(Faber). A generous selection of
Rotha’s writings on all aspects of the
cinema—old-time and recent successes,
documentaries and features, actors and
producers, technique and artistry.
Many of the articles are criticisms
written for various newspapers and
magazines, discussing such films as
“The Private Life of Henry VIII,”
“Jew Suss,” “Man of Aran,” “La
Ronde” and “Moby Dick.” They
remain remarkably readable, not only
because of Rotha’s authority but
because of the quiet clarity of his
style.


p.
m
I g |
***«
• \
■
HI
wij
•'ittii
ERG TYPE 2 EPH 27 2-volt Home Lighting Battery. Suitable for 12-V,
24-V, J2-V, 56-V and 110-V installations. Capacity : 225 ampere hours.
THE NEW ERG
HOME LIGHTING BATTERY
The transparent polystyrene con-
tainer enables you to SEE how
much acid there is in the battery.
Inbuilt floating gravity
balls indicate state of
charge of cells.
Double insulation (including
glass wool) prevents shed-
ding, ensuring longer life.
GUARANTEED FOR 3 YEARS
ERG BATTERIES Pty. Ltd.
156 GOULBURN ST., SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTED BY:
Erg Batteries Pty. Ltd. - - SYDNEY
Erg Batteries Pty. Ltd. - - BRISBANE
Keep Bros. & Wood Pty. Ltd. MELBOURNE
Walter Solly & Co. Pty. Ltd.
David L Prescott - - - - ADELAIDE
Erg Distributors LAUNCESTON
J. R. Roe & Company - - - DARWIN
- - - - BROKEN HILL
