

The Bulletin
ROYAL SHOW PREVIEW
Wednesday, March 18, 1959
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Kegrtstered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
" That's what happens when you educate 'em "


SHORT STORY WRITING.
FREELANCE JOURNALISM,
WRITING FOR RADIO.
WRITING FOR TELEVISION.
VERSE WRITING AND
PROSODY.
If you desire to take up writing seriously,
we recommend that you study all branches
of Literary Work—Stott's Courses are
thorough an-d complete. Write for special
Literary Prospectus.
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castle-
reagrli St., Sydney ; 290 Adelaide St., Bris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 254 Murray
St., Perth.
—•— CUT AM) MAIL THIS COUPON —
To STOTT'S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE
'• • • • • •
•••j****)** « • • «'• •
... (S.B. 659)
BOOKH ENTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
XAVIER HERBERT AGAIN
Xavier Herbert’s Seven Emus
(Angus and Robertson) is a singularly
disarming and contradictory little
novel.
It is wordy and padded; yet, when
you have by-passed the worst of the
words, it is crisp and compact. Its
humor is heavy and labored, yet it is
genuinely funny. It is “magazinish”
and unreal, yet it is full of the authentic
atmosphere of the Northern Territory.
Some of its characters are caricatures;
some are alive. It really shouldn’t
exist, except in the form of a long
short-story; yet, so rich is the material
and so full of gusto is the writing, there
is not a great deal of it one would
ultimately wish to see cut out.
It is about an anthropologist who
comes to the Territory and tries to
steal a unique piece of sculpture from
a cave sacred to the few surviving
members of the Seven Emus tribe. He
is a go-getter and wants to make a
name (and a job) for himself with
some overseas university. He is abetted
in this dark deed by a ne’er-do-well
called the Baron, who doesn’t care
about anthropology, but does very
much care about the money he can
make by selling the sculpture.
The sculpture is guarded not only by
the Emu old-men but by one Bronco
Jones, a quarter-caste aboriginal who
owns a cattle-station upon which, to
his surprise, he finds the Baron has
joined him as permanent guest and
sleeping-partner. The Baron has ruined
Jones by gambling on racehorses.
So there is the plot: will the two
scoundrels get away with the stone?
Will Bronco Jones, needing money so
urgently, betray the old-men?
Herbert never quite manages to
make this convincing. You can believe
in Bronco Jones—he is a most interest-
ing study. You can at least half-
believe in the Baron, in a farcical way.
You can believe in assorted minor
characters such as the Chinese store-
keeper, the bank-manager, the publi-
can and the half-castes whom, misled
by the anthropologist, Bronco invites
to a great regeneration-meeting which
turns into a beery fiasco. But you
cannot believe in the anthropologist; he
is a straw-figure representing all those
wicked city-dwellers down south: and
so you cannot really become engaged
by the plot, which depends so much on
the anthropologist’s machinations.
The compensations are that the story
remains both funny and, at times, in
the ironic but sympathetic understand-
ing of the aborigines, moving; and
that the North and its denizens are
veiy much alive. Here, for instance,
is Willie Pak Pong, the storekeeper, in
indignation after Bronco has asked him
to “carry” him:—
“Cally you! Wha’ name you
tinkee me, horsee? Ev’lybody
wantee Pak Pong cally, cally, cally.
Close up my back he blake. Hai
no lun business for silly people. Hai
want ’em money. You owe ’em me-
too muchee money. That mean you
workee for me now. Me bossee,
you savvy? Must be you workee
all - sim Chineeman ev’ly day,
no forty-hour weekee, no Sunday lie
in bedee, can’t stop before you pay
up big money you owe ’em me.
Spone you no more workee plopper
hardee, spone you drinkee beer,
gamble, loafer, all-sim ’nother one
half-carse, all-ai, I take ’em you court
quick-time . . . Savvy?”
It is a light book, partly intended
to display the minds and problems of
the half-castes, chiefly intended to be
enjoyable. Which, if you can leap
lightly from peak to peak over its
sloughs of wordiness, it is.
Sea-horses
Of all the unlikely subjects on which
to write a book nothing could be
unlikelier than sea-horses; yet no
creature is so obscure, so humble or so
improbable but that some devoted soul
is studying it; and here are Joyce Allan
(whom one has met before in the com-
pany of shellfish) and Gilbert Whitley,
curator of fishes in the Australian
Museum, Sydney, jointly writing The
Sea-horse and its Relatives (Georgian
House).
And there is much to be said for sea-
horses. Sydney Harbor apparently
teems with them, and when the
Aquarium at Taronga Park needs new
specimens (they turn pale in captivity,
doubtless through looking at so many
people) the experts row out into Sirius
Cove and, in eighteen inches of water,
catch them in .a butterfly-net with a
long handle.
They the sea-horses, not the
experts—are not only quaint to look
at, but have very curious habits. The
male has a pouch, like a kangaroo,
and the female deposits her eggs in it
and leaves him to work it out: a most
unseemly device. They are mono-
gamous in a sense, in that though
several females may visit each male for
this sinister purpose, and may visit him
more than once, they do not appear to
visit any other males. A couple has
been observed, if one may mention the
matter, to embrace thirteen times at
intervals of five minutes.
They are able to swivel their eyes
about so that one eye looks forward
and one eye backwards, but they
cannot look sideways. They spend
most of their time hooked by their
tails Jo limbs of seaweed, or round
each other’s tails and snouts, which
considerably entangles them, and they
can change color like chameleons.
They eat baby shrimps by the
thousand —“a single sea-horse two-
weeks old will consume 3600 baby
brine-shrimps during a ten-hour feed-
ing-period”—and, though so bony that
few fish and no human-beings are
interested in them as food, are them-
selves eaten in New Zealand by skate,
red-cod, trumpeter, blue-cod, ling and
sea-perch and in Australia by rays and
sharks. Sometimes cuttlefish not
unnaturally mistake them for pieces of
seaweed and lay their eggs on them.
In spite of their sedentary habits they
are true fishes and swim by means of
an infinitesimal fin near the centre of
the back.
One of the Australian sea-horses—
there are eight species—is called Phar
Lap (appallingly Latinised into “Far-
lapiscis breviceps”), and their rela-
tives rejoice in such resounding names
as sea-dragon, little pipe-horse, fringed
hobby-horse, spiny sea-dragon, alli-
gator pipe-fish, ghost pipe-fish, trumpet-
fish, flute-mouth, bellows-fish, razor-
fish, sea-moth and tick-fish. This last
unfortunate creature is said to have a
snout like a tick.
All these are discussed by the
authors with great gusto (even to the
pun on page 12); with one color-plate
and many illustrations in black-and-
white. The book is said to be written
{Continued on page 66)


is
V
!//
ft
(&
\
L — j.
m
m?:
's : ’ V
“It’s not as bad
as it seems ... ”
Bad enough, of course—the tragedy of fire
can never be a small matter —but the man
with an I.N.A. Consequential Loss Policy can
face the future in confidence. He knows his
policy will pay his net profit during the
reconstruction period, knows it will allow him
to retain his key personnel, knows it will allow
him to stay in business.
Insurance Company of North America—
known the world over as I.N.A. —has given
security by insurance for the past 167 years.
A belief in prompt claim settlements and the
interpretation of insurance contracts in a spirit
of compromise and reasonableness guarantees
the happiest business relationship^.
I.N.A. offers the business owner cover against
Fire and Consequential Loss of Profits,
Public Risk, Burglary, Plate Glass, Personal
Accident and All Sickness, Marine (Intrastate,
Interstate and International), Tourist Travel
and Luggage Protection.
It may well be in your own interest to see how
I.N.A. can help you. You will find them
friendly people to deal with.
mm
1792
INSURANCE COMPANY OF NORTH AMERICA
Incorporated in U.S.A. with limited Liability.
BRANCHES AT SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • AUCKLAND, N.Z.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, March 18,1959
Vol. 80—No. 4127
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252 J; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
NEW DEAL UP NORTH
QNE of the most important pieces of
planning for Australian develop-
ment is the report of Mr. W. L. Payne,
president of the Queensland Land
Court on land settlement in the
northern State.
Both as a head of the Land
Administration and as president of
the Land Court, W. L. Payne has
always been the champion of the
settler’s right to stability in tenure, in
rental-charges and taxation as a pre-
requisite to intensification of settle-
ment and improvement of properties.
In recent years, however, under the
curious administration of Messrs. Gair
and Foley and their immediate prede-
cessors, the principles which Payne
succeeded in getting laid down many
years ago have been twisted in curious
ways.
Last September Premier Nicklin
appointed him as a sole commissioner
to review the whole mess into which
the land situation was drifting, with
rising costs and increasing labor prob-
lems which affect the 84 per cent, of
the State held under the Land
Administration Board as pastoral-
leaseholds and grazing- and agricul-
tural-selections.
Tenures of all these classes have
not encouraged adventurousness on
the part of lessees.
Pastoral leases run up to thirty years
in ten-year periods, with rentals in the
opening period in remote areas fixed by
the Crown and for the last twenty
years by the Land Court. The lessee is
governed by the Crown and the court
as to maximum areas and the eradica-
tion of pests; in his right to apply for a
new lease he is limited to the last
rental period in the whole term in
which he is assessed. Pastoral-leases
are granted in more remote areas and
in large blocks, which in sheep-country
may run to 500 square-miles and in
cattle-country up to 1500 square-miles.
Grazing-selections consist of the
better-quality pastoral lands in areas
which range round 20,000 acres for
sheep and 60,000 acres for cattle. They
are subject to personal residence for
seven years out of the twenty-eight for
which leases run in seven-year rental-
assessment periods, pest-control, fenc-
ing and stock and general-improvement
covenants.
Again, the lessee can apply for
renewal only during the last of his
seven-year rent-assessment periods, and
with keen competition for this class
of country his position is one of great
uncertainty up to the last moment.
Indeed, it has often been precarious
indeed.
Payne’s report must come as a
breath of fresh air to a harassed
pastoral- and grazing-industry which
has been living in a state of uncer-
tainty for the last decade. His basic
stress is on the axiom that security of
tenure is essential as a prelude to the
development of Crown lands and that
anything less than that is “neither busi-
ness nor sense.”
AMONG his recommendations tabled
in Parliament a few days ago is one
that grazing lessees should have the
right to apply for renewals of their
leases ten years before the end of their
existing terms; that it should be
accepted that present sheep-property
rentals are high enough, and should
be conditioned to the price of wool,
not rising until prices go back to 65d.
to 70d. average and possibly subject
to reduction if they remain at present
levels or weaken further; that all leases
should be in multiples of ten years,
with thirty years as standard and forty
years acceptable where more than
average expenditure is needed in
development.
On pastoral leases Payne recom-
mends the abolition of the condition
which enables the Crown to resume
a quarter of the holding at any time
without compensation. And he
strongly criticises the recent Lands
Department ukase which has reduced
the conception of living-areas in sheep-
grazing districts from the 5-10,000
sheep category to 4-8000 sheep, as
only workable in “inside” areas or
with extra-good land. He says these
standards need to be widened all round
by 20-25 per cent, in purely grazing
districts and by “much more” in
remote districts. And he adds that if
a margin of safety is not left for
graziers to cover bad seasons and
price- and cost-fluctuations the “State
is gambling at the expense of its
tenant.
Outside these broad issues there is
a sweeping range of recommended
changes covering almost every section
of administration and rent-assessment,
not the least of them being the recon-
stitution of the existing Land Board
into a commission of three men headed
by a chief commissioner “of such age
as to have a long period of service
ahead of him,” the two other members
being each expert in a particular
branch.
Payne suggests long-term loans up to
90 per cent, on developmental proposi-
tions such as brigalow-blocks, which
need up to £8 to £lO outlay per acre
to make them financially operable; a
widened conversion of certain types of
Government-owned land to freehold
and the abolition of “priority addi-
tional grants” to holders of allegedly
sub-standard grazing properties. These,
in the thirty-one years they have been
available, have “delayed the opening of
land, spoilt the designs of land for
competition and led to gross inequities.”
Some of the “most deserving” appli-
cants for additional areas have been re-
fused, while undeserving lessees have
obtained them. Payne writes:—
It is time to call a halt to this whole-
sale distribution of free gifts from the
Public Estate. The greedy wholesale
exploitation which the policy has caused
would be brought to an end.
In subdivisions in the west, the report
says that graziers should be entitled to
“full-living areas, plus about 20 per
cent, as their priority right,” and sub-
division should be considered only
after such an area has been delineated,
the allowance to be made in favor of
the outgoing lessee. Everywhere leases
should be conditioned in length of term
to the expenditure incurred, or likely
to be incurred, on development. It
is further suggested that any existing
lease in the “inside” grazing areas up
to 5000 acres and already improved up
to £5 an acre (including structural
improvements) should have the right
of conversion to perpetual-lease at a
rent of 2\ per cent, of the unimproved
capital value or to freeholding tenure,
subject to safeguards against lessees
picking the eyes out of uneven country.
The report says that if the recom-
mended reforms were introduced, rural
production could be increased by “at
least £5O million a year” in five years.
ZOOMING from a less trusted auth-
ority this might sound a rash pro-
phecy. But the report has the whole-
hearted acclaim of the land-industries,
and Lands Minister Muller has pro-
nounced it excellent, with not much in
the recommendations that he does not
approve, and the proposed reforms
subject to dela£ only because of the
need for legislation.
There are 380,000 square-miles of
interior, central and far northern
Queensland out of the State’s total of
670,000 square-miles which carry not
many more than 50,000 people.
Anything that gives a fillip to the
closer settlement of these areas is
worth vigorous attention, both from the
Commonwealth and the State.


"MY MONEY'S ON THE BLOKE WITH THE NEW AXE!”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Berlin Deadline
The importance which Russia attaches to
the capture of West Berlin and the
establishment of the East German
Republic as an Iron Curtain entity is
shown by the painstaking manner in
which Khrushchev is campaigning.
Perhaps his vehement operations are also
an indication of underlying alarm in East
Germany at the idea of permanent
integration as a Soviet Union satellite.
Khrushchev’s glimpses at close
quarters of West Berlin opinion and
conditions have obviously not been
encouraging, and he is working very hard
to achieve some plan which will satisfy
the West Berliners and at the same time
discomfort the Western Allies. The alter-
native to this seems to be another Hun-
garian slaughter in Berlin, which might
spark-off extensions throughout East
Germany. And if there is anything
Moscow doesn’t want it’s another
Hungarian slaughter. To guard against
such an event it maintains 23 divisions,
largely armored, in East Germany.
The latest Russian scheme is for the
continuance of the Allied occupation of
West Berlin on a token plan, with the
■ inclusion of Russian troops among the
occupiers, all this with a guarantee of
“free access.”
Seeing that both Moscow and East
Berlin Governments have been at great
pains to make it clear that East Germany
is free to decide the fate of the whole
of the Berlin and East German area, and
that the East German leaders have
announced firmly that occupation by the
West must end, the Khrushchev plan is
confusing—unless it is accepted that East
Germany has no free will whatever and
that it is, and will continue to be, a
Russian province.
Mr. Macmillan’s part in negotiations
with Moscow have had a mixed recep-
tion. The United States seems invariably
to take the view that no leadership from
anywhere but Washington can be
tolerated. The State Department is
hipped that leadership in Western
Europe seems to be slipping into Western
European hands. American failures in
diplomacy have been so frequent that it
might be better for everyone if American
leadership were subject to stronger
brakes, and if the view were accepted
that the U.S. should not necessarily take
command irrespective of whether its
nominees have superior ability to that
offering from other countries.
On the main question, there is no
disagreement among the Nato allies.
They are, in Mr. Macmillan’s words,
“resolute and firm on the principles we
shall defend” —namely, that there can be
no submission to Russian dictation about
West Berlin or the German question,
since surrender on that point would mean
virtually surrender of Western Europe to
Communism. Unfortunately, there is
however, disagreement on his axiom that
“we must not be inflexible in our method
of defence.”
The U.K. Government is obviously
fully seized with the imminent danger
of war and will go to any length in
devising means to avoid it. So will the
other Western European nations who are
likely to be under fire without warning.
They cannot afford to be quite so light-
heartedly inflexible as the United States,
which is far away from the scene of
action and has never had a Hungary
or an East Germany on its borders or
an Algeria and Morocco and the Middle
East next-door.
It is therefore much easier for Presi-
dent Eisenhower to promise that he is
not going to fight a ground-war against
23 Soviet Union divisions in East Ger-
many and 150 in reserve at call, if
fighting breaks out over Berlin. The
implication in this is clearly that if there
is any shooting from the American 'side
it will be nuclear beyond all question.
From this policy the Western European
countries which Russia would seek to
knock-out have infinitely more to fear
than the U.S. It is tantamount to a
warning to Russia to strike first with
nuclear power.
Even the most desperate efforts to avoid
a war are therefore justified on the part
of Britain, which would be the first-
priority target of the Russians, apart from
the fact that the British approach has
an immense propaganda value in Asia.
Cahill's Last Stand
Although the candidates for N.S.W.
elections are still campaigning lustily,
most electors have by now made up their
minds which way to vote. The Liberal
and Country parties, more closely linked
than for many years, have been scenting
victory and have campaigned with mount-
ing confidence. The policy speeches of
their leaders, Pat Morton and C. B.
Cutler (in the absence through sickness
of Davis Hughes) gave them solid
ammunition they could use with telling
effect, and they haven’t had to improvise
as they went along.
Cahill’s cohorts, on the other hand,
have had the unfamiliar job of explain-
ing, firstly, why they’re not making any
promises this time and, secondly, why
their opponents are. When their leader
sees his party as a united body he has
obviously mislaid his spectacles. He
apparently hasn’t noticed the dissension
in Rockdale over the choice of a candi-
date to replace Works Minister Mc-
Grath ; the public-platform private dog-
fight between two of his senior Ministers ;
the open criticism by the Labor candi-
date for Burwood of his Government’s
housing-record and its handling of public-
transport ; the same gentleman’s appro-
val of several items of Morton’s policy ;
criticism of transport policy by the
Labor candidate for Hamilton ; the sup-
port rebel Clive Evatt and some of his
Independents are getting from Labor
men ; the presence on the nomination-
lists of 25 D.L.P. candidates.
Both Cahill and Morton have made
extensive election-tours, and both claim
to be pleased with what they have seen
and heard. Cahill says he has “never
seen people more responsive to the policy
of the Government.” He feels that they
“will respond to our policy and our
sense of responsibility.”
Morton’s feeling is that both city and
country voters “are ready for a change.”
He sees signs that the policy of the
Opposition parties “has caught the public
imagination” and he thinks there could
be “a movement of votes on a really big
scale.” On all appearances Morton’s
assessment of the feeling of the elec-
torate seems nearer the mark. Under
McKell, McGirr and Cahill, Labor has
been in office since 1941. During that
period it has had one or two close calls,
but has never entered the final week
of a campaign with glummer prospects
than now confront it. More than Doo-
little’s “little bit ’o luck” will be needed
to prevent Saturday from being Cahill’s
Last Stand.
Westralian Poll
Electors in Westralia will also go to the
polls on Saturday, when 116 candidates
will contest the 50 Assembly seats. Of
the 11 walkovers, Labor holds only two
—Boulder and Melville. Deputy-Premier
Tonkin represents Melville, and Mines
Minister Moir is member for Boulder.
Liberals unopposed include Opposition-
leader Brand (Greenough), Deputy-leader
Court (Nedlands) and former Premier
McLarty (Murray). Country-party leader
Watts (Stirling) is also past the post before
the race starts. Other seats in which
there’ll be no contests are Claremont
(Lib.), Harvey (Lib.), Katanning (C.P.),
Moore (C.P.) and Mt. Marshall (C.P.).
Apart from these seats the A.L.P. is
also not contesting seven Opposition
seats —South Perth, Avon Valley, Black-
wood, Dale, Roe, Toodyay and Vasse.
Sitting member Independent Liberal
Grayden will be opposed in South Perth
by an official Liberal; Avon Valley and
Blackwood will be straight-out fights
between Libs, and C.P. ; in Dale there’ll
be two C.P. candidates, a Liberal and
art unendorsed Labor man ; Country-
party member Perkins is challenged in
Roe by an Independent C.P. man (E. I.
Biglin); Toodyay will have the choice
of two C.P. candidates, one Independent
Labor and one Rural Labor, and in
Vasse Liberal member Bovell will strike
only D.L.P. opposition.
For two Labor men the poll will be
just an exercise run. J. J. Brady, Minister
for Native Affairs and Police, has only
a Communist against him in Guildford-
Midland ; so has Phil Lawrence in South
Fremantle.
Sixteen D.L.P. candidates have been
nominated for Saturday. There were
none in 1956, and their presence this time
makes the task of Premier Hawke’s
A.L.P. much harder. In the old Parlia-
ment Labor held 29 seats to the 21 of the
combined Opposition parties ; the loss of
five would put it out of office—and at
the 1956 election half-a-dozen of its seats
were won by small majorities.
Factors which could count against the
Hawke Government are public dissatis-
faction over betting-shops; criticism of


Railways administration ; recent dismissal
(on the score of economy) of 50 women
schoolteachers ; relative stagnation in the
State after the boom of a few years
ago.
The Opposition parties, led by Mr.
Brand (Liberal) and Mr. Watts (Country
party), have their tails up —and with good
reason. At the Federal election four
months ago there was a big swing away
from Labor ; Kim Beazley, in Fremantle,
was the only M.H.R. to hold his seat.
The State parties can’t expect a swing of
those dimensions, but they hope to win
enough seats to defeat the Government.
Defence and Responsibility
It now seems certain that the United
States will become a partner to some
extent in the Woomera-Maralinga bases
and that the knowledge gained in its
missile-experiments will be added to that
gained by the U.K.-Australian efforts,
which may have been just as important
to Western defence, if not as much adver-
tised or so spectacular.
Woomera offers advantages for missile-
range development which neither Western
Europe nor the American continent
possesses. It has long land-ranges over
unpopulated country and a comparatively
regular climatic condition not found in
the other two continents.
Western Europe can have no long-
distance range except over the sea, and
the United States is in the same posi-
tion ; Canada, because of its Arctic
climate, has other disadvantages.
Anything fired over any distance from
Cape Canaveral is inevitably lost;
whereas it would seem that there is a
nine - to - one chance of recovery of
missiles fired over anything up to 1500
miles from the South Australian base.
A world effort directed from Woomera
would have important repercussions on
the Australian economy since it would
make South Australia an even greater
scientific manufacturing centre than at
present. Unfortunately it would also
make this country a No. 1 priority for
attack by an enemy power bent on
aggression—a No. 1 priority not merely
for destruction, but for capture and
occupation. The aim of an enemy might
not be merely to wreck the missile-bases,
but to take them whole and discover their
secrets.
On the other hand, the turning of
Australia into a major centre of research
in the satellite- and moon-rocket class
would change the whole attitude of the
West to Australian defence and make
our protection a major primary task.
It seems inevitable that such expansion
would lead to a closer linking of Aus-
tralian and U.S. defence, both internally
and in the circle of approach islands.
It also seems axiomatic that it would
lead to a greater Russian interest in this
country, and it is worth while considering
how far the Russian large-scale Antarctic
operations and the timing of the attempt
to bring the Russian Embassy back to
Canberra are connected with the appre-
hended developments.
Questions of great importance to Aus-
tralian independence naturally arise.
Whatever is done in the way of defence
should as much as possible be an Aus-
tralian effort.
Multi-story Flats
Two more Melbourne housing - experts
have urged the building of multi-story
flats on reclaimed sites in the city itself.
The authorities, J. P. Gaskin and Ray
Burkitt, suggest 20-story flats, and their
reasons are very much the same as those
given by all other public - housing
authorities who have seen recent develop-
ments in America and Europe, also by
leading architects. These are that they
place the maximum number of people
close to the centres of employment and
give them shorter travel-time and cheaper
fares, as well as making available imme-
diately all public-utility services.
Gaskin, who is Deputy Director of
Housing, and Burkitt, chief technical
officer of the Housing Commission,
reported that the cost for each dwelling-
unit in a multi-story flat building would
be higher than that of lower-level build-
ing.
This is because there are not many
contractors or building workers in Mel-
bourne familiar with multi-story housing,
although there are plenty experienced in
building skyscraper-offices. As a result
there wouldn’t be intense bidding to build
the flats.
Site-costs were a material factor in in-
fluencing the authors in recommending
skyscraper-flats; the report says they
could be as high as £50,000 an acre.
It would cost about £IO,OOO a house-site
if five houses, the normal number, were
built on an acre, but if 50 dwelling-units
were constructed on it, the site-cost would
be £IOOO a unit. Multi-story flats are
the only method of economically develop-
ing sites with such high values.
The preoccupation of Melbourne
authorities with the necessity for flats
is due partly to the rapid growth of the
city, and partly to the post-war Labor
policy which regarded flats with all ser-
vices as less desirable than the little
wooden boxes the Housing Commission
put up in muddy development-areas on
the city’s fringe.
Reckless Renegades
[From CanberraJ
While Prime Minister Menzies has the
overwhelming support and confidence of
the Australian electorate, there are signs
of trouble right in his own camp.
One storm that is blowing-up threatens
not only the P.M.’s prestige in the party,
but could wreck the proposed £2BO-
- five-year road-rehabilitation pro-
gramme decided at the Premier’s Con-
ference.
Queensland Liberals in Canberra are
incensed at the scheme, under which, they
claim, Queensland will receive nearly £2
million less in the next five years than
under the existing roads formula.
Senator lan Wood has already stated
that he will vote against the legislation
;when it comes before the Senate, and
another northern Senator, Ted Maher,
is also critical of the proposals. Two
votes —the Government’s present majority
in the Senate —could block the legislation
if Labor Senators opposed it.
Queensland Liberals in the House of
Representatives are also making a close
study of the proposals, and observers feel
that the Cabinet cannot ignore the
Queenslanders’ case, because it was in
the northern State that the Government
had its greatest victory at the elections.
The other danger-signal is the con-
tinuing dissatisfaction in its own ranks
with the banking legislation.
In the debate in Parliament last week
four Government supporters, Roy
Wheeler and Les Bury, N.S.W. Liberals,
Phil Stokes, a Liberal from Victoria,
and one-time N.S.W. Education Minister,
Dave Drummond, now C.P. member
for New England, all criticised the legis-
lation and urged the Government to
amend it.
The group received a severe jolt when
Menzies stated the Government would
accept no further amendments to the
legislation.
“We have amended it twice already
to meet the wishes of some of our sup-
porters, and, as far as I am concerned,
that's it,” he said flatly.
While these two questions—roads and
banking—will not create any split in the
Government’s ranks at this stage, they
should serve as a warning to Govern-
ments, whether Liberal or Labor, that the
voice of the back-benchers can still make
itself heard.
Happy Moomba
On its latest showing, the Moomba
carnival in Melbourne has been lastingly
established. No doubt the businessmen
who put-up some of the original guaran-
tees and a good deal of time for the first
Moomba had a comforting suspicion that
it would be good for trade, but the carni-
val has outgrown even its protagonists’
expectations.
There is now a satisfactory blending
of culture and nonsense ; and this year
there was the added interest of the new
Myer Bowl, where ballet, music and
opera were available for all comers.
There was also the International Trade
Fair. A look over the “Herald’s” art-
show in the Treasury Gardens at the
weekend indicated that almost every sale-
able canvas had been sold.
Above all this has been the blithe
spirit of Melburnians and their visitors.
The cheerful, companionable mood of
the vast crowds, chiefly in family groups,
who thronged the route of the inspiriting
procession and afterwards ate luncheons
on the green, was infectious and heart-
warming. The police and press put the
parade-watchers at half-a-million and it
hardly seemed a wild guess.
Nothing since the visit of the Queen
and the Duke of Edinburgh, or, further
back to the V.P.-Day parades, has been
so moving, probably because this is in-
deed a spectacle of a happier Australia,
and of Australians at their best.


TEN MILLION
“Australia's population reached ten million
on Tuesday of last week.”
Ten million bellies to be fed
Ten million living to be dead,
Ten million minds to find confusion,
Ten million loves to disillusion,
Ten million ever-thirsty throats,
Ten millions of bewildered votes,
Ten million bodies to be housed,
Ten million angers to be roused,
Ten million hopes to be dismayed,
Ten million taxes to be paid,
Ten million to win lotteries,
Ten million to obstruct the police,
Ten million tongues to mangle one,
Ten million brains with books to con
Between the cradle and the hearse —
And only one admires my verse !
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
Society
Ad. in an American magazine: “A
woman’s best accessory is still an
attractive, well-groomed man” —on the
principle of one old bag to every couple,
no doubt. —“Narmar.”
*•>
“Wigwag”: The good sisters who run
one of Adelaide’s ighklars girls’ schools
tell with appreciation, not altogether
unmixed with awe, of two of their pupils
holidaying in Melbourne, who went down
to watch the filming of “On the Beach.”
They not only secured Gregory Peck’s
autograph, but also held a lengthy con-
versation with him, so that he invited
them to lunch with him on the set. This
offer the lasses felt bound in all honesty
to decline ; unfortunately, they said, they
had already had their lunch.
>J+ <£♦
“Sevenelms”: “An Chuidh’s” par. (B.
4/ 3/ ’59) on double - effed monickers
prompted me to find in the directory that
in Victoria we have only ffrench, ffrost
and ffelan. With what is, 1 fear, com-
plete irrelevance I record that the social
jottings of my Borneo paper mention a
caller at Government House, Mr.
yj. J. B. de la Poer Beresford-Peirse.
**«■ <£♦
“Narumee”: She displayed some color-
transparencies of her home, across the
white walls of which trailed a magnificent
creeper ablaze with bright-pink blossom.
To all eager questioning she shook her
head: “I’m no gardener—l don’t know
its name.” Later she grinned at me:
“I wasn’t going to let on to them, dear,
but I stuck geraniums in the ivy!”
“0.W.W.”: Indignant correspondent
in the “Evening Post,” Wellington (N.Z.):
“Give up my seat in a tram to a woman?
They smoke our cigarettes. They drink
our beer. They wear our trousers. They
can have my few square-inches of
standing-room.”
«J+ +*<■ +s» 'r -i” i
“Ceg.”: Absentminded bishops (B.
25/2/’59) reminded me of one who over-
slept in his compartment on the Sydney-
Brisbane express a good many years ago,
I being the only other occupant. The
conductor came along to look at our
tickets. While he was checking mine,
the episcopalian gentleman took - off
pretty well everything except his gaiters,
but still no ticket. The conductor, having
regard to the clerical garb, said, “Never
mind, sir ; I’ve no doubt yours is all
right,” and was leaving the compartment
when the bishop said, “ ‘Never mind,’ be
blowed. I must find that ticket to know
where I'm bound for.” The search con-
tinued ; the conductor departed; and
we were left alone. The poor chap was
properly distressed as he told me that
he hadn’t a clue what town he was due
at—we might have already passed it.
It seemed a case for Divine guidance.
“W.M.”: Another word for
“L.R.G.’s” new vocabulary (B. 4/3/’59):
“real” used in conjunction with the noun
“people.” A few days ago I heard of
both a Texas oil-baron and an English
duke who were “real people.” No play
or novel has a chance unless the critics
confirm the characters as “real”; and
politicians, especially during election-
campaigns, openly express their concern
for the needs of people who are “real”
—what better euphemism to replace the
descriptive “lower orders,” “the prole-
tariat,” “the little man,” “humble folks”
and “the poor”? As one of the “real
people” I hereby give notice that any
time my fairy godmother wants to wave
the magic wand and waft me into the
realms of the unreal I shall give the old
girl my fullest co-operation.
♦s* ❖ ♦>
“Bo”: Melbourne magazine poster:
“How to Win a V.C.” —why, it’s per-
fectly simple: just help yourself to a
war, and learn in one uneasy lesson!
❖ *X* ♦>
“Wusslean”: My youngster, visiting the
head-office of a bank in Melbourne to
make inquiries about possible vacancies,
mentioned casually that he had just
obtained the School Leaving Certificate
and found himself whisked into the staff-
officer’s room and offered free medical
benefits, an assisted university-course, a
generous housing-loan when he married
. . . Having other irons in the fire, he
managed to make a tactful withdrawal
by promising to give the bank’s request
every consideration.
“No, no, Miss Dillpol. You cant say ‘Lots of love to the
deputy commissioner


I don’t posses a wine-cellar or any
but the most ordinary knowledge
of wines, but I must confess to enjoying
the observations of experts, as, for in-
stance, a touch or so in an article I have
just been reading:
An enigmatic wine . . . Old but by no
means senile . . . The bottle was not much
ullaged . . . Clearly a pre-phylloxera
wine . . . The manliest French wine I
ever drank ... A velvety wine ... A
young racy wine ... A senior Burgundy . s .
Noted for its magnificence and size . . .
Sound but not great . . . Sweet on the
nose . . . Plenty of vigor and no suggestion
of decay . . . Substantial and gamey . . *
Sealing-wax nose ... A complete
wine . . . Finish and elegance . . .
Thin —no stamina ... Hard and tannin-
ridden . . . Enormous vinosity . . . Youth-
ful vigor ... A big wine ... A little
green and reserved . . . Delicious but lacks
stuffing . . .
As a drinker of grocer’s sherry I dips
me lid to the expert. —“Ceg.”
♦>
“Xavier”: Test-trial review in a motor-
ing journal: “Berkeley" Sports. .. .its
roadholding is in a class by itself among
small cars and its sex-appeal unrivalled
under £2000.” For more than £2OOO, of
course, you’d expect a real woman.
»> +> !
“Bass”: That bloke who got off with
a fiver fine for riding a horse when drunk
(B. 7/1/’59) was lucky it didn’t occur
in W.A. Over here a drunk rider/driver
of a pushbike cops a sizeable fine plus
a three-months’ disqualification for the
first offence. The penalty goes up for the
second offence, and for the third the fine’s
pretty stiff and the disqualification—for
life —applies to all vehicles. A bloke who
cops a third charge of drunken pushbike-
riding could never get a licence to drive
a car. If the vehicle on the third occa-
sion were a horse the rider probably
would be debarred for life from applying
for a street-sweeper’s job.
* * ❖
“Maitri”: A society to which I belong
has a highfalutin name ; a copy of its
annual report turned-up, the contents
pretty trivial, with the warning on the
envelope: “Printed Natter.”
♦s»
“McDorian”: When you study the
organ, you must practise ; fortified with
a hefty meal I got to the church to do
my evening’s work and found that the
organ-tuners had removed the entire
pedalboard ; the vestry was decorated
with a pile of wooden pipes, ranging
from 7ft. monsters to sin. squibs.
A vestry is an unfortunate place to put
pipes, so I wrote a little message—“ Please
do not touch pipes, they are delicate and
easy to put out of tune” —and stuck it
on the wall. This, I thought, might deter
curious choirgirls ; but when the Rector
arrived to conduct the evening service he
came into the vestry ; his eyes lit up'.
“Ah! Organ-pipes!” And he picked-up
one and blew it. A little later a senior
church-warden came out to ring the bell:
“Ah! What’s this?” And he had a blow.
If elders of the church carry on like
this, I’m dreading Sunday morning when
“You give up that radium treatment or else!”
the vestry will be filled with sopranos.
My only hope is that they won’t go as
far as the cherubs of St. Andrew’s
Cathedral Choir, who, when the organ
was being rebuilt, used to sneak around
to the room where the pipes were stored
and make-off with pocketfuls of treble
diapasons. .
“Roger Mike”: My mate Joe hasn’t
much time for rules, excepting the one
that says that working-clothes must not
be worn on club premises after 7 p.m.
Until his missus found this out he used
to come home and change every after-
noon. Now she keeps his clothes locked
up ; he goes to the club direct from work,
is automatically chucked-out at 7 p.m.
and arrives home in good time for tea.
This way there’s much less strife, and,
most important, his average drinking-time
has been increased by at least half-an-
hour!
* *** ***
“O Johnno”: A party of ratepayers
who arrived at a Launceston (Tas.)
polling-booth while the town clock was
striking were told by the official in charge
that they were too late to record their
vote because the first stroke of the clock
denotes the hour-remaining strokes are
just a sort of musical follow-up to
emphasise that doors have closed. The
G.P.O. blokes later confirmed this. It
opens-up interesting little side issues ; for
instance, as to the validity of transactions
which may depend upon the hour marked
by a town clock ; or when pub doors
are deemed open or closed. I notice
variations in the time-pips, too ; after
moving the mantel-shelf clock-hands to
correspond with the wireless announce-
ment I’ve tuned - in another station a
moment or so after, to hear the signal
repeated. Big things may hang upon
the first dong marking the hour: when
I lived in Queensland no marriage could
legally be celebrated after 8 p.m,, and
a few seconds made all the difference
between a firmly-tied knot and one that
could be declared null and void after
evidence on the time-factor.
“Louise”: This week I received a card
from an almost-forgotten acquaintance,
inscribed: “To dear Lousie.” Friend or
Foe? I’m still trying to decide.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Piketrailer”: It’s tough being a
Gunner these days. In the British Army
cuts (called alcoholically in officers’ and
sergeants’ messes the “drifting Sandys”
policy) the Royal Regiment got the knife,
dropping from 54 regiments to 36. How-
ever, the fillip to the morale and prestige
of that very closed shop, the Gunners,
has been that the missile-era from the
ground-to-ground point of view has been
placed in its lap. And now, after 150 key
blokes have undergone instruction at the
White Sands proving-grounds in the
U.S. and its further intensive regimental
training in England, 47 Guided Weapon
Regiment R.A. has joined the Regular
Army order of battle in Germany. Well,
it almost did. While no outcry has seem-
ingly come from the American zone of
Southern Germany, where nuclear


cannon and missiles are not unknown,
the citizens of Dortmund on the outskirts
of the smoky strategic Ruhr have pro-
tested that the siting of such a regiment
on Dortmund airfield would attract too
much military attention from the Other
Side—as if the Ruhr didn’t, anyway. To
the regimental advance-party, who at
least touched their hobnailed boots down
in the environs of Dortmund, the Social
“ Remember before the pyjama-party era when We only used
them to sleep in?"
Democrat Burgomaster was pleasant and
polite—but firm. Now Nato H.Q. has
announced that a new station is being
selected “somewhere in the Nato area”
for 47 Guided Weapon Regiment. Per-
haps guarding Fontainebleau?
* A
“J.W.”: St. Phillip s Church (B.
4/3/’59) was going flat-out with
christenings at the end of 1848. An early
one was Jane Williams (October, 1848),
in later years a Bulletin contributor
from outback southern N.S.W. Among
her descendants was thriller-writer Max
Murray, known to listeners to the 8.8. C.
Pacific newsreel during World War 11.
* * *
“Roomy”: The chap who wanted a
single-booking on the Melbourne-Sydney
Daylight Express had to go without his
lunch ; he had to wait while the clerk
prepared 32 tickets for the woman in
front of him. No, she wasn’t conducting
a large party, but she wanted four return-
bookings, and, with seat-reservations Mel-
boume-Albury, Albury-Sydney, Sydney-
Albury, Albury-Melbourne, together with
fare-tickets ditto, that was a total of eight
pasteboards a passenger. Well, at least
the railways have streamlined loco-
motives!
T ast week I met a barefoot grand-
daughter in a bayside shop, clad
in a two-piece swim-suit, and, perhaps
as a sop to Mrs. Grundy, a pocket-
handkerchief - sized towel across her
shoulders. A few years back, a tourist on
a ferry on the Bosphorus, I saw a young
Turkish mother sitting on the deck,
openly giving Nature’s best to her infant,
but, whenever I or any other man passed
by, hastily veiling her face! In 1918, a
teenager living in Melbourne with an
aunt, I saw Uncle erecting a fine long
mirror in the bathroom and a few days
later returned to find it covered three-
quarter-way up with a shiny diamond-
patterned wallpaper peculiar to bathroom
windows of that era. Yes, Aunt’s modesty
had been violated!—“Talbingo.”
❖ ( ♦> ❖
ei u ■» «• ~ o tt,- t p »» a /o /»c q\
‘ f ' i oVa
lea t med nothing from the pre-1914 com-
pulsory - cadets? Thousands of others
If ™ ed < and remembered) plenty. I also
shot at Long Bay rifle-range as a cadet
in 1915, passing second-class and, later
in Blighty, first-class shot in 1918 with
the A.I.F. Compulsory - cadets learned
rifle- and parade-drill strictly according
to the book; the value was apparent
when they joined the A.I.F. Compulsory-
cadets and citizen-soldiers formed the
nucleus of the original A.I.F. Need I say
more?
**„
“Jesmondene”: Percy Brunton (B.
21/l/’59) peddled peanuts from Brisbane
to Perth. He also had Parliamentary
ambitions. At that arena of oratory,
the Yarra Bank, I twice saw him one
jump ahead of a howling mob being
police-shepherded with his silk topper,
white coat and peanut-cart to sanctuary
behind the morgue railings. Perhaps
somebody can tell us whether Percy’s
gift of adverse rabble - rousing derived
from his heckling of popular speakers or
voicing some inflammatory philosophy
of his own.
*!♦
If the depth of personal
bereayement can be measured by the
inch, then the award must surely go to
the lady who, in Sydney “Herald,”
lamented the death of her mother with
83 lines of verse. Another group of the
family followed with 37 lines of verse,
and yet another with four lines. In all,
124 lines, occupying about Ift. of space.
THE MARTYRS
“It has been found that the giant earth-
worms of Peru yield a volatile oil which has
excellent hair-setting qualities.”
O you, whose head and chassis have no
junction,
Who mote along your subterranean,
ways
In leisured style; till now your primary
junction
Has been most worthily to spend your
days
Chewing your way through sods, thereby
aerating
The soil. Man's friend, you have the
master-touch !
His ally in his task of cultivating,
What other creature, by perambulating,
Could do as much ?
You thought, perhaps (that is, if Nature’s
handed
To you the wondrous power to think
at all),
That till the end of time ’twould be
demanded
Of you through earth’s dark space
blindly to crawl.
But, tyorm, you’ve fallen to the march of
science.
You’ve served man faithfully, as he’ll
proclaim ;
Now he expects some amiable compliance
On your part to complete a new alliance —
To serve his dame.
For ages woman has called on man for
notions
To keep her “crowning glory” in its
place,
Shored-up with pins and clips, with goos
and lotions,
To gain a perfect framing for her face.
Wriggler, you have the power to ease her
turmoil!
Co-operate by now yielding to her
Your most puissant essences, your worm-
oil,
Which man will metamorphose into
perm.-oil.
Wdl, worm, bestir!
N.s.w.
S.W.K.


AN APPLE ISLANDER DEBUNKS
The Convict - Bushman Legend
By JACK CATO
Touching on recent discussion in
The Bulletin, I think anything
that could be called convict-
bushman influence was too diffused
over too large an area for it to have
any effect upon the large populations
of the cities, towns and the hundreds of
settlements that covered the 3000 miles
from Cairns to Melbourne.
A mere handful of people lived in the
bush and the outback. Yet these were
the only people our writers drooled over.
When Barcroft Boake wrote “Where the
Dead Men Lie” (to pick a famous poem)
he gave the impression of an outback
dotted like a battlefield with corpses:
“Out where the grinning skulls bleach
whitely,” and at night a procession of
the ghostly dead. Yet there was law and
order throughout the country, and it is
almost certain that he never saw a single
skeleton. It is also doubtful if he ever
met a dozen drovers during any part
of the two years he spent in the Never
Never. His verses are the poetic fancy
of a melancholy mind that copied the
morbid moods of Gordon. He was one
of many. And the truth was not in them.
Here is a true picture of the outback
given me by a friend who owns and
works fifteen-million acres of Australia,
all of it prosperous cattle-stations. He
tells me that 150 white men run the
whole of that enormous estate, which
is the size of Scotland. Also that one
drover, two offsiders and a cook move
1500 cattle 1000 miles—from where they
were born—in three months ; while I
know from experience that a husband
and wife and a handyman run many of
our big sheep-stations. There are no
dead men’s bones cluttering the land-
scape. Not one.
nPHE truth is that the bush was an
empty place. The handful of eccen-
trics who chose to live there no more
influenced our great city populations
than did the lugger-loads of kanakas who
were landed here.
But there is one place in our Com-
monwealth where convict influence was
concentrated —where tens of thousands
of convicts and bushmen lived and
worked together for half-a-century. That
is Tasmania. I am the least of its dis-
tinguished sons, but I know its history,
and I know the “feel” of its story. That
is because the pioneers and their descen-
dants had large families. As the children
married, each drew another horde of
relatives, connections and their friends
into the clan. By the time I arrived
with the third generation I was related
or linked in some way with almost every-
one in the island.
To this little island of Van Diemen’s
Land, half the size of England—chosen
as a place of exile for incorrigibles—
100,000 convicts were transported:
75,000 gentlemen and 25,000 ladies. At
the same time thousands of free British
settlers poured into the place. These
free people needed help. Fortunately most
of the prison-sentences were for short
periods—exile was the real punishment.
So, many convicts were freed every week,
chiefly on ticket-of-leave, to work for
the settlers.
'T'here, if anywhere on earth, the in-
fluence of convicts on settlers could
be seen, the growth and development of
a new culture studied. For all that went
on for 50 years. Convicts who continued
a life of crime were still serving-out
their sentences in my father’s day. He
“Suddenly it rained in the city and
up Went all the umbrellas !”
often stopped to talk to Martin Cash
on his way to school. Many old lags
were known to me ; some bared their
backs to show me their scars.
All but a very few of the freed con-
victs who remained on the island worked
as servants: on farms, orchards, and in
the towns. A few lowered themselves
by going into trade —Business, Robbery,
etc. A few old lags hung around the
prisons making leg-irons strong enough
to chain elephants, and also cat-o’-nine-
tails—big ones for gentlemen, smaller
ones for ladies, though no lady was ever
thrashed by penal authority. These they
sold to gullible tourists.
The code-word to all this is “servants.”
Convicts became servants to people of
strong character, who were not sent out,
but dared a tremendous and costly
adventure to arrive there. If you visit
lovely Tasmania, don’t ask my noble
countrymen if they took their charming
culture from their servants, for then you
had better take the first plane home
before they have you certified.
Their culture was English. They
treasured it, and were enormously proud
of it—goodness knows why. They im-
mediately set about making their colony
a little England. Every settler brought
out a pocketful of acorns. They planted
the oak, the elm, the willow and the
hawthorn-hedges everywhere ; or, rather,
they ordered their convict servants to do
so —and, like most servants in that age,
the tame convicts copied their
masters.
The free settlers were kind,
friendly people of the highest
principles. The first two lessons
we were taught were: “This is
the most beautiful place in the
world,” and “Never trust a
Mainlander, for they are all
crooks.”
That’s why I crossed Bass
Strait early, for men of high
principles die poor.
Convict influence my fat aunt!
With that dreadful birth-
stain, from that frightful begin-
ning with incorrigible felons,
Tasmania became the most civi-
lised place on earth. When I
was young we could drink all
night in old-world inns. When
you got paralytic the Law on
its night-rounds carried you
home, put you to bed, called
later to inquire of your health
and receive the appropriate
tribute.
At the first breath of scandal the
family closed its ranks ; that meant an
island-wide conspiracy to save a member
of the clan from trouble.
I had a relative who married the
granddaughter of one of our earliest
convicts. As she knew of her background,
her devotion to virtue and rectitude was
appalling. I hated her. But her four
handsome sons swung the pendulum.
They were gallant gentlemen. They were
always invited to Government House
balls. There they were so notoriously
popular with the gals that for three days
prior to the ball his Excellency, egged-on
by his wife, had a team of gardeners
watering the lawns into a quagmire on
their account.
That’s how it went, under the sole in-
fluence of the free settlers —from convict
to aristocrat in three generations.


POINTS
Saturday is polling-day in two States
—N.S.W. and Westralia. In both States
Labor Governments with small majorities
face a critical test —in Sydney after 18
years of office, in Perth after six.
• •
Both the Cahill Government and the
Hawke Government are for the first
time striking direct opposition from the
D.L.P., which is campaigning in key
seats and instructing its supporters to
put the A.L.P. last, except where a Com-
munist is also standing.
• •
Despite Cahill’s assertions of con-
fidence he has been behaving like a
worried man throughout this campaign.
He has given many signs of being rattled.
From the beginning he has made per-
sonal attacks on Morton and Cutler. The
Opposition policy-speeches he first dis-
missed as airy promises and then pro-
duced ridiculously exaggerated figures to
prove their proposals weren't practicable.
When Morton quoted Professor Copland
to say they were, Joe first dismissed this
with the remark that the prof, had always
been an optimist and later said that
Copland obviously didn’t know anything
about N.S.W. finance.
• •
Joe has every reason to be rattled. In
the old Parliament he had a majority
of four over the combined Opposition
parties and the two Independents Clive
Evatt and F. O. Purdue (Waratah), so
that even the loss of two seats would put
him at the mercy of the Independents.
At the last election he won two seats
by fewer than 100 votes, four more by
fewer than 500, and another two by
fewer than 1000. Apart from his three-
weeks annual-leave and his dubious
equal - pay bill it is doubtful whether
Cahill could produce one item that would
give him reason for assuming that his
party has gained ground since 1956.
He lost Wagga at a by-election, but
there are also several other reasons
for thinking he has lost ground. These
include: a virile Opposition policy, with
many items which could appeal to swing-
ing voters ; closer co-operation between
the Opposition parties; dissensions in
the A.L.P. ranks ; the nomination of a
large number of D.L.P. candidates and
of Independents with near-Labor appeal.
• •
Seats narrowly won by Labor in 1956
were: Ryde (42), Concord (87), Mudgee
(absolute majority 227), North Sydney
(327), Young (359), Dubbo (436), Rock-
dale (579), Goulburn (942). There is a
D.L.P candidate in every one of these
electorates, and although on Federal-
election figures the D.L.P. vote was only
about five p.c., a vote of similar dimen-
sions on Saturday (with, say, 60-70 p.c.
of prefs. going to the Lib. or C.P.) would
be enough to lose the Government all
those seats and give the Liberal and
Country parties a comfortable majority.
Other Labor seats which could be con-
sidered vulnerable include Randwick
(absolute majority 1006), Dulwich Hill
(1071), Liverpool Plains (absolute
majority 1560), Burrinjuck (1846), Hamil-
ton (1876), Bondi (1903) and Murrunv
bidgee (1923).
• •
Heartened by the result of recent trade-
missions to the East and to Czecho-
slovakia, the Commonwealth is organis-
ing yet another mission—this time to
Central and East Africa. It will consist of
about 20 businessmen, under a depart-
mental manager/secretary, and will leave
towards the end of May for a six-weeks’
visit to Rhodesia, British East Africa and
Mauritius.
Australian exports to the area now
total over £6 million a year, but it is
believed this could be increased to about
£lO million. Canberra is seeking the
support of manufacturers to make the
African mission a success.
• •
How ironical that Cahill, after bring-
ing in equal-pay (of a sort) to catch the
votes of women who go to work, should
now, through Morton’s offer of free-
travel for schoolchildren, be in danger of
losing the votes of the women who stay
home!
• •
Federal politicians are not expected to
receive any substantial pay rise as a
result of the Richardson report, now in
the hands of the Government. Recom-
mended increases are believed to centre
more on increased electoral-allowances
and higher pensions. There is talk of
an increase of not more than £2OO a year,
taking the flat-rate salary to £2650.
However, electoral - allowances are
expected to increase fairly steeply. They
will remain taxable as at present, but
most members write them off against
taxation by justifying expenditure of at
least the total amount, if not more, in
electoral duties.
Pensions may be fixed at £2O a week
for members after service in three Parlia-
ments. At present they retire on £l2 a
week, rising to £l5 if they are over 65 ;
the new figures will probably be £2O and
£25 respectively. Members’ contributions
to the salaries-fund will also be increased
from the present rate of £9 a fortnight.
The pensions-fund at present stands at
about £320,000, made up of members’
and Government contributions.
• •
The rapid progress being recorded on
the Snowy Mountains project has forced
the Government to make additional funds
available this year. Because of the
completion of projects ahead of time, the
Snowy Mountains Authority has run out
of cash, so the Commonwealth has made
an extra grant of £4 million to allow a
continuity of work. This brings the total
allocation for the year to £23,500,000.
National Development Minister
Spooner has reported that one of the
reasons for the rapid progress was the
adoption of the contract-system, which
gave terrific incentives to contractors to
complete their work as quickly as pos-
sible. He might also have mentioned
the wonderful spirit of co-operation
between workmen of all races whose
main object is to get a good job done,
not on time, but before time.
% • •
W.A. Opposition - parties stake their
chances of unseating the Hawke Govern-
ment on six seats which were narrowly
won by Labor in 1956. These are Albany
(18), North Perth (74), Leederville (136)
Wembley Beaches (196), Canning (210)
and Subiaco (293). The loss of five of
these would put Labor out.
BOTH: "I THINK WE'RE BEING CUT-OFF."


News for the fire-brigade? The old
Reichstag building, just west of Berlin’s
dividing line, is undergoing extensive
renovations.
• •
Bolte estimates his overseas tour with
three others to Britain, France, Germany,
Holland, Italy, U.S. and Canada will
last three months and will cost £15,000.
At £5OOO a month travelling expenses,
it can’t be claimed the Victorian
Treasurer is acting in a pinch-penny way
towards the Victorian Premier.
• •
According to Brisbane reports, most
members of the Australian delegation to
the Ecafe conference wore suits of syn-
thetics or near-synthetics. Admittedly it’s
not the time of the year for heavy tweeds,
but there are such things as light woollen
suits. R. G. Casey set a good example
by wearing one.
• •
Cahill’s belated promise to reduce regis-
tration-fees for intra-State hauliers by
one-half is the clearest sign yet that the
man is getting very rattled. He didn’t
mention it in his policy-speech, so it
couldn’t have been the result of careful
deliberation. It was something whisked
out of the hat as a counter to Morton’s
promise to repeal the ton-mile tax. But
it has about as much chance of winning
back the hauliers’ vote as Joe has of
singing the soprano lead in the opening
season of his Opera House.
• •
Addressing the Queensland cane-
growers’ conference Trade Minister
McEwen said that Japan could become
an enormously valuable market for Aus-
tralian sugar. Under the trade-agreement
this country has the right to bid com-
petitively for 40 per cent, of Japan’s
sugar imports. “We have contracted the
right to get into that market,” he said,
“and it is our job to exploit it.”
McEwen said that as the standard of
living in Asia improved there would be
further opportunities to increase sugar
exports. Present production in Australia
meets the home demand of more than
half-a-million tons and provides 700,000
tons for export.
• •
Queensland Electoral Boundaries Com-
mission has invited the general public to
express opinions on redistribution of
boundaries. Closing-date for suggestions,
March 31.
• . •
“Soc”: The windiest bridge (for its
size) in the universe is now open for
business down in the N.S.W. Riverina.
It was opened by Minister for Local
Government and Highways Renshaw
(who, electioneering in the district, had
opened a fair and was there asked to do
likewise at the bridge); Minister for
Health Sheahan (who, electioneering in
the district, chanced to be passing—with
party —and joined his bellows to Mr.
Renshaw’s), and Premier Cahill (who,
electioneering in the district, happened
to be passing while Mr. Sheahan was in
open throttle and also opened his, and
the bridge, too). The bridge has a span
of 12ft.
• •
Predictions that Wilfred Kent Hughes
might lose his post as chairman of the
Federal Parliamentary Foreign Affairs
Committee as a result of his criticism
of the Government proved to be off the
beam. At a secret ballot iast week he
was re-elected. As Labor still stands aloof
from the committee its 20 members com-
prise 19 Government Reps, and Senators
and one D.L.P. Senator.
• •
Seven Latin American dictators have
been overthrown in the last five years
—Arbenz (Guatemala) in 1954 ; Peron
(Argentina), 1955 ; Somoza (Nicaragua),
1956, by assassination (his son is now
President); Magloire (Haiti), 1956 ;
Pinilla (Colombia), 1957 ; Jimenez
(Venezuela), 1958 ; Batista (Cuba), 1959.
Asian, African and European dictators,
please note.
• •
Robert Lindsay, Liberal M.H.R. for
Flinders (Vic.), who shocked his own
colleagues as well as the Opposition when
he declared he was opposed to any rise
in Parliamentary salaries, “because, after
all, we are not Supermen,” opposes the
old argument that higher salaries would
attract a better type of Parliamentarian.
He thinks this could operate equally in
reverse, because when a member enters
Parliament at a fairly early age, he un-
doubtedly receives higher remuneration
than he would in an outside occupation.
• •
South Australians continue to be the
most prudent community in Australia ;
they have the highest savings - bank
deposits per head of population—£l67 6s.
N.S.W. comes third, behind Victoria,
with £126 4s. per head, and West Aus-
tralia brings up the rear with £96 2s.
per head.
The overall average for Australia at
January 31 was £135 65., four-bob more
than a month earlier.
This community nest-egg now totals
£1522 million, of which the Common-
wealth Savings Bank holds £1339 million
and the private banks £lB3 million.
• o
A thing that could cost Cahill many
votes in important country seats is the
policy initiated by him, and continued
with gusto by Local Government Minister
Renshaw, of amalgamating shires and
municipalities regardless of the wishes
of the people in the areas concerned.
Morton and Cutler have undertaken,
if placed in power, to refer all
amalgamation proposals to a four-man
commission comprising an independent
chairman (preferably with judicial ex-
perience), one representative each from
the Shires Association and the Local
Government Association and one from
the Local Government Department. It
is hoped that this will put an end to
forced amalgamations and that no more
country shires will be “Renshawed out
of their rights.”
• •
“Stromlo”: Speaking of costs for the
projected underground for Melbourne
(B. 4/3/’59), a new line mooted for
London, from Victoria, in s.-w., to
Walthamstow, in the east, is estimated
to cost £stg.so million, apart from rolling-
stock. The new line will be lly miles long,
and will run under buildings instead of
following roadways. It will go under the
Royal parks between Victoria and Green
Park stations, and will pass close to
Buckingham Palace which, however,
wont have its own station.
• •
Nearly one Australian in every three
works for some Government or Govern-
ment agency even excluding 47,000-
odd in the Defence Services. Official
figures at December 31 placed the
number at 759,700 persons out of a
total civilian work-force of 2,898,300.
The figures exclude rural workers and
female domestics. Of all Government
agencies the Commonwealth Bank, with
13,717, has the highest number of em-
ployees. The Snowy Mountains Scheme
accounts for 3096 and T.A.A. 3923.
In the private sector manufacturing
industries employ 1,100,000, building
204,700 and retail-trade 200,300.
The weekly wages bill paid in Aus-
tralia is £58,239,000, while the average
male worker received £2l 6s. a week last
year. N.S.W. workers had the highest
average weekly wage, £22 25., followed
by Victoria at £22 and Tasmania with
£2O 6s.
• •
Dandenong, one of the keys to Vic-
toria’s prosperity, became a city on
Saturday, and among the openings were,
for a change, a new hospital-wing, a
new sports-grandstand and a new R.C.
church; nearly all recent openings in
Dandenong appear to have been new
factories. Among these are International
Harvester, Heinz, Rootes, General
Motors, Chesebrough’s, Yarra Falls,
Commonwealth Engineering and many
others of considerable tonnage.
Woolworths’ recently bought a nice
frontage in the main street for about
£l9OO a foot. The 1939 price for similar
sites was £l4O a foot.
• •
There were sceptics who grinned when
Bolte, asked on TV about the royal com-
missioner’s report favoring an off-course
tote, said he hadn’t read it yet; but
perhaps he didn't need to and the result
was sufficient. You couldn’t, as the Vic-
torian Premier’s racing mates phrase it,
name the odds about an off-course tote-
bill in Victoria this year.


Personal
ITEMS
R. A. P. Jackson, of Sydney, who
made the first entry in the Common-
wealth Bank’s postage-register in Bris-
bane in 1913 and posted its first letter,
has retired as chief inspector, second-
highest post in the bank. He has held
most of the bank’s senior posts in five
States. As a Digger, Jackson was
seriously wounded by shrapnel in front
of Pozieres in 1916. After the Armistice
he joined the bank's London office.
• •
John O’Grady (“Nino Culotta”) plans
to leave Sydney next month to gather
material for a sequel to his best-seller
They’re a Weird Mob. The new book
will be set in Piedmont (Italy). O'Grady,
his wife and 25-year-old son, will fly to
Suva, join a German copra-ship there,
disembark at Hamburg, and then travel
across Europe by motor-scooter.
• •
Atomic - powered shipping, much of
which will travel under the sea, in the
not-too-distant future —that’s the fore-
cast of Rear-Admiral V. C. Begg, Flag
Officer, Second-in-Command of the Far
East Station, who is visiting Australian
waters in the carrier Albion before em-
barking on Seato exercises. Admiral
Begg reckons the carrier is the most
flexible weapon for attack or defence in
any local or world conflict, and says the
Royal Navy is more inclined to build
fast, medium-sized carriers than slower
and more vulnerable capital ships.
• •
Visiting Australia to plan an expan-
sion of his firm's distilleries here, Arthur
Gilbey is vice-chairman of Gilbeys’, Ltd.,
of London, and a great-grandson of Sir
Walter Gilbey, one of the founders of
the firm. Gilbey, now 39, served in
North Africa and Greece with the 4th
Queen’s Own Hussars (Winston Chur-
chill’s old regiment); he was captured in
Greece and spent the rest of the war as
a p.-0.-w.
• •
Sydney businessman Doug Gibb, just
back after four years in Canada and the
U.S., brings news of a programme by
which city teenagers in each country
spend vacation-time on ranches nearby.
At other times of the year the ranches
are used for rehabilitation of first-
offender boys and girls. This has been
made possible by businessmen’s adoption-
plans, and Gibb thinks something on
similar lines could become popular
among young people in Australian
capital cities. He’s already found interest
among some of Sydney’s business leaders.
J. E. Macdonnell: I had to get my
submarine fictionally up through the
Sunda Strait into the Java'Sea ; not easy
when one navigates now with a school
atlas. But on page 166 of Alastair Mars’s
H.M.S. Thule Intercepts is just the map, out-
lining his own course in war-time Thule. It
was also necessary for my boat to get her
nose down in a Jap-induced hurry, and on
page 114 Mars does just that, correct orders
and all. We had corresponded five years ago,
ALISTAIR MARS
when I reviewed his excellent Unbroken in
The Bulletin, and then he had intimated that
one day he intended to settle here. Before
pinching his orders to “Open ‘A’ kingston
valve,” I thought I’d better write to him in
London and make the theft legal, some authors
being a bit touchy on things like that —and
also ask what had happened to his earlier
intention of dropping the pick here. The
phone rang; and a clipped voice pronounced:
“Good morning. My name is Alastair Mars.”
Up at near-Sydney Avalon that night it was
close to 3 a.m. before we finished talking, with
a lot more to come; and next day in the
city he had a more practically profitable time —
one radio-producer became interested in his
Arctic Submarine, another in Atomic Sub-
marine (recently finished running in the “S.M.
Herald”), and a pocket-book publisher is read-
ing his latest from Michael Joseph, Tycoon.
Versatile, Mars has written a boys’ book, has
film-scripted the Arctic novel for a London
producer, and will adapt his own work for
radio here.
Nuggety, with a head-back habit so that he
looks at you from narrowed eyes—the steady,
seaman 100k —Mars (pictured) is a little on the
weather side of 40, has definite ideas on Civil
Defence and the U.K.’s lack of it, and is still
characterised, after years of civilian life, by that
casual and assured power of command to be
expected of a submarine captain who can write
after his name D. 5.0., D.S.C. and Bar.
Representatives from eight British
Commonwealth countries and the U.S.A.
attended the centenary celebrations of the
Law Institute of Victoria. Among them
were Leslie E. Peppiat, president of the
Law Society of England (he won the
M.C. and Bar, was twice mentioned in
dispatches and twice wounded in War 1);
Ross L. Malone, president of the Ameri-
can Bar Association; A. B. Buxton,
president of the N.Z. Law Society ; and
K. T. 00, chairman of the Singapore Bar
Committee.
• •
On his 35th trip abroad Albert Monk
plans to start at Geneva with an 1.L.0.
meeting, then go on to Moscow to repre-
sent the A.C.T.U. at the Russian Trade
Union Congress. After visiting Czecho-
slovakia and Yugoslavia he will go to
London for further union talks before
coming back in May.
• •
Captain James Kemp, who has logged
his 20,000 th flying-hour with Ansett-
A.N.A., is the doyen of Australia’s
airliner-pilots. Senior captain of the com-
bine, he began flying 30 years ago as an
Aero Club member, joining Interstate
Airways in Victoria in 1937 to begin his
career in the airliners.
• •
In Australia to discuss bauxite-deposits
in North Queensland with British and
American representatives, Major-General
Sir Francis de Guingand is head of big
British mining investments. He was
“Monty’s” chief -of - staff during the
scrapping from El Alamein to Berlin ;
he and “Monty” first met as regimental
officers in York, then in Egypt in 1932-33,
at Quetta in 1935 and in London in 1939,
when de Guingand was military-assistant
to Hore Belisha, Secretary of State for
War. When he arrived by air from
Johannesburg, de Guingand broke his
journey in Perth to lunch with the State
Governor, Lieut.-General Sir Charles
Gairdner, another war-time associate.
• •
“Joanne”: Postmasters don’t always
do nothing more vigorous than drive a
pen or hoe the garden. G. L. Butt, for
example, newly-appointed at Newcastle
(N.S.W.), is a judo-expert, holding the
“black belt,” a high mark of proficiency.
When he was postmaster at Orange
(N.S.W.) two years ago he formed a
judo - club there, and before that he’d
founded a class in Canberra. Now doing
Newcastle the same service, he has, since
War 11, taught hundreds of young Aus-
tralians what judo’s all about.
• •
Phillip Law has come back to Mel-
bourne from his latest Antarctic ventur-
ing, happy because the Magga Dan ex-
pedition had made the first exploration
on the coast of Oates Land, taken over
America’s Wilkes Base and overhauled
the automatic weather-station at Lewis
Island on Davis Bay,
Law, now director of the Antarctic
Division of the External Affairs Depart-
ment, first went south with the Austra-
lian National Antarctic Research Expedi-
tion to Macquarie and Heard Islands in


1947. Leader of every expedition since
then, he began his exploring as a school-
boy at Hamilton (Vic.), making trips to
the Grampians when he had the time.
He helped himself through the Univer-
sity in the ’thirties by teaching, and
graduated with honors ; his thesis was
on the history and development of
cosmic-ray research. Now he’s so devoted
to physics and the Antarctic that lectur-
ing on those subjects fills the months
when he isn’t down south.
• •
Lately passed on in Perth, at just two
years short of the century, an authentic
pioneer of the big State’s nor’-west,
George Chandler Rose. A native of W.A.,
born at Parkfieid, he tried banking for a
while under James Mitchell (subsequently
State Governor), but gave the ledgers and
£ s. d. away to manage a farm at Dardanup.
Hearing there that Alexander Forrest (brother
of Sir John) had reported favorably on the
Kimberleys for sheep-raising, he handed the
farm over and, “with 2s. in his pocket and
two fine horses,” applied to Forrest and was
appointed leader of an expedition, heading
north.
They left in the three-masted sailer Heather
Bell, which also took along the stock —12
horses, 7 cattle, 1750 sheep—that were to form
the nucleus of the great herds of the nor’-west.
From Beagle Bay they made inland, and got
lost; but eventually Rose selected a station-
property for one of the promoters and bought
300,000 acres at Mt. Anderson for himself
(today his sons are the owners). Later the
old pioneer went south again, farmed at
B'unbury, and retired to Perth; there known
as taciturn, but gracious to the stranger in
his home, and with a streak of humor that
came in quite surprising flashes.
C. WOODHEAD, of Brisbane, started
work in Bryce, Ltd., in 1906 as office-boy
and was managing-director from 1919
until his retirement in 1953, retaining his
seat on the board as chairman of
directors. He represented Australia at
Rugby League ( 1909-12 ) and Queensland
at Rugby Union and swimming.
“Great Scott”: When Captain Scott
was loading supplies at Lyttleton (N.Z.)
nearly 58 years ago on his way to the
South Pole for his first expedition he
took on board Charles Hare, then aged
21, as wardroom-steward. Today Hare
is living in retirement on a pineapple-
plantation at Eudlo (Q.) —the only Aus-
tralian survivor of that party. Elsewhere
three others survive Ford (chief-
steward), living in Auckland (N.Z.); and
Captain Bame (R.N., ret.) and J. Plumley
(blacksmith), both living in England.
• e
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: Winner of the D.C.M.
in action against the Japs—he lost an
eye and an arm and suffered severe in-
jury to his other eye—Sepik tribesman
Yauwiga, of Wewak sub-district, is now
the second native to become a member
of Sepik District Advisory Council.
Yauwiga joined the N.G. police in 1929,
and had given outstanding service before
going into action. Since discharge he has
worked for the economic advancement
of his people ; he founded the flourish-
ing Kreer Rural Progress Society.
Awarded the Loyal Service Medal in
1955, he was recently elected president
of the Wewak Native Returned Service-
men’s League.
• •
After a month’s holiday in Perth,
former Westralian pilot Jack Dixon has
gone back to Leopoldville (Belgian
Congo). With his wife, whom he met
when she was working as an air-hostess
for W.A. airlines, he went to Europe a
couple of years ago and lived in Switzer-
land until he took a job with a Belgian
airline and moved to the Congo. He likes
Leopoldville; says it has modern air-
conditioned buildings, a large business-
centre and a white population of 20,000.
• •
A silver-medal has been awarded to
Captain G. E. Owen, of Cottesloe (W.A.),
for his history of the Post and Telegraph
Department in Westralia. The MS., on
which he spent his spare time for the
past 10 years, was exhibited in Sydney
at the same time as a collection of Westra-
lian postal-markings which he showed at
the National Philatelic Exhibition. Owen
served for many years in the mercantile
marine.
• •
Linking-up with ASEA, the Swedish
engineering-firm, 34 years ago, English-
born Howard S. Lamburd has been
Sweden’s Consul in Melbourne for nine
years. For his services the Swedish
Government has awarded him the Royal
Order of Vass (first-class) and the Royal
Swedish Patriotic Society has given him
its gold-medal.
• •
The annual inter-Service sports finished
this year with a win for the Army. The
Navy was host, and the man responsible
for organisation was Commander A. H.
Cooper, R.A.N., the port “springer”
(that is, the Physical and Recreational
Training Officer).
Cooper (pictured) has been in the
Hydrographic Survey since 1943. He
helped in making surveys for the assault-
landings of General Macarthur’s island-
hoppers from New Guinea to the
SPORTING SAILOR
Philippines. Later he was No. 1 in
H.M.A.S. Lachlan when that ship, with
the Duke of Gloucester on board for
the ceremony, took part in the opening
of Sydney’s Captain Cook Dock. Cooper
also helped the R.A.A.F. survey the air-
strip at Cocos Island and was in charge
of the first reconnaissance of the Monte
Bello atom-bomb site. He’s a keen
yachtsman, who bags his share of wins,
with a few to spare.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Brisbane, Martha Burns, for many years
in dental practice there, and one of the first
women dentists to graduate from Melbourne
University. A personal friend of Flynn of the
Inland, she trained nurses in dentistry for the
Australian Inland Mission. In War I she was
in France with Lady Dudley’s Voluntary Aid
Hospital and later was hon. commandant in
Queensland for the V.A.D., as well as president
and then patroness of the Blinded Soldiers’
Association.
In Sydney, at 75, Percival Stanley (“Peter”)
Willsallen, a councillor of the R.A.S. of N.S.W.
for 18 years, vice-president for four years and
a very popular judge, particularly of juvenile
horse-events. Raised in the Gunnedah (N.S.W.)
district, he carried on his family’s pastoral
interests there and in Queensland, and became
a Sydney director of Goldsbrough Mort. From
1939-45 he was in charge of postal censorship
in Sydney.
At Dunedin (N.Z.), at 85, Arthur Barnett,
notable for patriotic and philanthropic work
and business enterprise. During War I he
organised a carnival which made £lOO,OOO for
the patriotic-fund, and he was equally active
in War 11. He was awarded an O.ts.fc. in 1951.
In Hobart, Charles G. Patman, for the
last 20 years one of the Speck’s leading racing-
writers.
In Sydney, the Rev. R. B. Reynolds, former
chairman of the Congregational Union of
N.S.W.


ABORIGINALITIES
"DUKE" TRITTON REPLIES
To “Barringunite”
I know you blokes north of the Darling
are somewhat touchy on the subject of
rivers, and I hate to offend. We were in
Barringun two hours, and my recollec-
tions are vague. But as any bushman
will, as a matter of course, ask for in-
formation regarding water on any track
he has not previously travelled, I in-
quired on the road to Enngonia, and was
informed that I would be close to the
Warrego most of the way. Having now
looked-up the map, I would say that the
Warrego is close enough to claim Barrin-
gun as one of its towns. However, I
accept that it is on the Barringun Creek
. . . Admit that I did not mention the
coolibah-trees and the cypress-pines, but
at the time I wrote, there was plenty of
spinifex, and I know the difference be-
tween spinifex and roly-poly. As the
country had been in the grip of a drought
for six months, I saw it at its worst, and,
between the dust and flies, I may have
taken a pretty dim view of the soil.
To H. D. Mackie, Leura ( N.S.W .)
I did not wish to give the impression
that John Henderson forbade others that
which he enjoyed himself; but in not
allowing booze on the job he was just
using plain sense. Several of his em-
ployees were periodical drinkers, and
every few months would collect wages
due, and go off to Coonabarabran, have
a glorious spree for a few days, come
back repentant, and their jobs would be
waiting for them. I knew that he came
out on top a few years later, and was
pleased to hear it. He was one of the
first squatters to realise the value of con-
serving feed for stock, and it paid-off.
And his religious services: My mate and
I went regularly, not for the cups of tea,
although they were very acceptable, but
we enjoyed it, especially singing hymns.
And we liked John Henderson. I join
with your parishioners in saying “He was
a hell of a good bloke.” I might mention
that he never ordered us a drink. Per-
haps he thought we were too young.
To G. B. (Bill) Enson, Toowoomba (Q.)
As one battler to another, I would like
to add to your good wishes in the here-
after. May we be penmates in a shed
where all rams, six-tooth wethers and
“cobblers” are drafted down to the lower
regions to be shorn, while we have all
“rosellas” and “bare - bellied yowes” to
shear ; where the Boss of the Board is
an understanding cove who doesn’t do
his block if you happen to leave a bit
of wool on or take a few inches of skin
off a sheep when you’re flat-out for a
tally. See you at the Roll Call.
To “Carpentaria "
As I was relying on memory, I was
not sure whether the Rev. Feetham be-
came Bishop of North Queensland or
Carpentaria. I discovered that it was
North Queensland too late to correct the
error. I never knew his first name, though
I met him twice in after years. So to
me, as to many other outback men, he
“Wake up, King Alfred!"
was simply “the Reverend Feetham.” No
doubt there were many good Christian
men in the back country, but I have never
met a better one.
To Dame Mary Gilmore
I thank you for your kind comments
on my story “Time Means Tucker.” In
regard to Alan Cunningham and his
peach-trees, John Meredith, whom I
think you know as a writer and collector
of Australian folksongs, has just returned
from a trip to the Warrumbungles, and
tells me that the peach-tree 1 mentioned
in the story is still there, and alive. The
native-bees were so plentiful in my time
that every tree in bloom would have a
cloud of the tiny creatures humming
among the blossoms from daylight to
dark. But the imported bee-moth —that
bane of the beekeepers—found the sting-
less native-bee easy to deal with, and
today I doubt if there is a nest in the
whole of the Warrumbungle Range . . .
I am sorry to have to differ with you on
maul - versus - hammer. At the time of
which I wrote, the maul, like blade-shears,
was well on the way out. The reason
for using the maul was not to save the
hands, but to prevent burring the heads
of the wedges, which meant frequent
attention at the forge. But the extra speed
at which the hammer could be used more
than offset the time spent in repairing
wedges. After all, a steel hammer has
been used to strike steel drills in boring
hard rock ever since ex-
plosives were first used. I
admit the error in speak-
ing of my vehicle as a
“buggy.” It was a wagon-
ette. I knew the Abbott
buggy, also the Gellatly,
made in Mudgee (N.S.W.).
To G. M. C. Dempsey
As to G. M. C. Dempsey’s
comment on my reference
to “The Flags,” in speak-
ing of any outback pubs
the word “shanty” was
used somewhat loosely by
most people, without re-
gard to appearance or con-
struction, and I don’t
think the term was meant
to be offensive. The epi-
sode of 1905 which I men-
tioned is also recalled by
two men, still living, who
were present at the time.
To Others
Yes, “Barrowman,”
Percy MacDonald was the
peanut-vendor at Brewar-
rina Show. As “Eureka”
mentions (B. 11/2/’59),
Percy Brunton preferred




the city to the bush. Besides their interest:
in peanuts, both had Parliamentary
ambitions, but the electors were not in-
terested in either gentleman.
Thanks, “Tabba,” for your sympathy
in my panic on firing my first set of
charges. I was 50ft. down, in a space
of 4ft. by 2ft., so if anything had gone
wrong I would have gone out of the
shaft like a rocket.
Thanks to “R. A. McC.” for his nice
par. Mr. and Mrs. Tackyzrma were very
nice people, and Mrs. T. was still a good-
looking woman.
To “J. H. Dickson” (B. 11/2/’59): On
checking-up my MS. I had an argument
with my typist. I didn’t win. She said
my handwriting was to blame for any
errors that might creep in, and also she
would not be responsible for any faults
in my spelling. As she is my grand-
daughter and does my typing buckshee,
I apologised to her, and all is well again.
However, “Dickson’s on the Marra” was
known all over New South Wales as a
station where no swagman was ever re-
fused a handout, and a tin of jam and
baking-powder were always included. I
got both without asking, and was then
asked if I smoked. On replying “Yes”
a plug of “Home Rule” was given to
each of us. So I have very pleasant
memories of “Dickson’s on the Marra.”
Four years ago, returning from a fishing-
trip on the Darling, I came through
Yarrawin on the way to Carinda, and
though nearly 50 years had passed I still
remembered how heavy our tuckerbags
Were when we crossed the Marra.
To “E.V.”: Station handouts to
From “Wippegong”: Further to “Time Means Tucker,”
this photo shows the bones of that old-time river-boat which
“Duke” Tritton voyaged on, the Wandering Jew, where she
burned and sank at her moorings at Brewarrina. Use the picture
if or how you wish, then give it to “Duke,” with compliments.
travellers were seldom refused in N.S.W.
during my four years on the track. Admit
that many stations issued only the bare
ration, but a sad story, well told, would
often bring out the tin of jam or baking-
powder with quite a few. In the few cases
where we met abuse we never went short
of meat. Illegal, perhaps, but what is a
nice lamb between enemies?
“Curio” (B. 18/2/’59) put me down
for the count. Following the serial, I
noticed the bloomer, checked the MS.,
and found I had written “up” instead of
“down.” I knew no shearer would miss
that blunder, so I was not surprised to'
read your par. I hereby apologise, and
to clear the matter up I now say that
the picker-up throws the fleece on the
table skin-side down.
■poocH, reared designedly with bantams
in a coop, has resultantly a sensible
regard for birds. A broken - winged
fledgling he salvaged from the bull-
paddock we guessed was a yellow-robin
and tried to nurture with worms. Meter-
reader, observing our do-gooding, said
with the quiet authority of the bird-
watcher he is: “That’s a linnet and needs
birdseed. Mrs. Smith’s got canaries. I’ll
borrow some and leave it in your mail-
box on my way home.” Thereafter things
went better, and the linnet five weeks
later flew off, a bit erratically, to free-
dom. —“Jesmondene.”
* * * *
“Uramao”: Hopes that the mummified
body of a Maori chief that had been
spirited out of New Zealand some 80
..years ago by Andreas Reischek, Austrian
explorer and taxidermist, might be re-
stored to his own land have been dashed.
The body lies in the Vienna Museum,
and Professor Reischek, a son of the
old-time explorer, in response to letters
on the subject approached the Austrian
authorities. Their argument seems sound
—with such a precedent, other countries
such as Egypt, Peru, Mexico, etc., would
make demands for
the return of their
mummies.
* *
“Quartercut”: The
local season - fore-
casters by bird-
portent have some
material. Nary a
cormorant fishing
the dams these three
months. Jays we
rarely see silently
cleaning -up the
grasshoppers in the
Danthonia. Gang-
gangs (already
three weeks late)
not attending the
biggest-ever haw-
thorn - berry crop.
And a very corpu-
lent pair of bronze-
wings regularly
neglecting their
ample queen - wattleseed to share our
pooch’s porridge.
* # * !jt
“Bass”: “Wulworra” errs badly in
classing the Tasmanian - wolf and
Tasmanian-devil as fossil-remains (B.
18/2/’59) —both were extant on the
mainland when the first whites arrived;
and, while it was evident that they were
then on the verge of extinction, they
must have been numerous when the
aborigines reached here. Similarly, “W.’s”
encyclopaedia notwithstanding, it’s
obvious that the abo.’s dog, the dingo,
was responsible for their great reduction
in numbers. At one time, as remains
found in caves in W.A. have shown,
they were spread over much of the con-
tinent, and it’s unlikely that a climatic
change alone would have exterminated
the two carnivores west of the Nullarbor
and left their prey, the ’roos and wallabies
and the numerous small species of mar-
supials, still flourishing. The dingo (a
canine) was more than a match for the
wolf (a marsupial) in a fight; but, more
important, he competed successfully with
it for the limited food-supply.
* * * *
“D.A.W.”: Strangest fire-cause our
local emergency fire-service unit has
struck: The lap-rug of a motorbike
touching the exhaust-pipe, igniting, and
setting the machine alight before the
rider could unbuckle. It started a big
grass-fire.
* * * •
“Rocky”: One of the queerest sights
in a long life in the bush was a big
black goanna going up a white-box tree
wearing a lovely pair of white wings,
and even seemingly using ’em. For a
few moments it made me feel I’d been
too long in the bush, or sun, or both.
I found that the go. had tried to swallow
a large white crane tail-first, and had
got as far as the wings when his gullet
took the knock. The flapping of the
pinions was the scaly one’s efforts to
bash his victim against the tree to force
it down. He still hadn’t solved the
gastronomic problem when I left.
•1* 'i*
“Bogaduck”: Just before noon one day
in 1932 my mate and I ran short of water
for the truck-radiator north of Anakie
(Q.), and, spotting an old well, I walked
across with a fishing-line, billycan and
water-drum. When I looked down the
well, I was just in time to see the sun
illuminate the whole of the surface of
the water 60ft. below. By the time I was
hauling up the first billy of water a band
of shadow was appearing on the western
edge of the bottom of the well. Nothing
remarkable in that, for the well was
right on the Tropic of Capricorn and the
date was December 21, the summer
solstice. But about 2200 years ago a
Greek philosopher, Eratosthenes, noticed
the same thing in a deep well at Aswan,
on the Nile, the day being the summer
solstice in the Northern Hemisphere. On
that same day in a following year he
read the angle of the sun at noon on
a sundial at Alexandria. Egyptian sur-
veyors told him the two places were about
560 miles apart. A simple calculation
then enabled him to announce that the
world was 28,000 miles in circumference.
Few people of his day believed Eratos-
thenes —quite a number of other savants
had “proved” the world to be flat —but
now we know the old boy was astonish-
ingly close to the truth.


I hold fogs in some affection, and for
a very good reason. On a March
morning on our Gippsland farm the fog
was so heavy my father decided to break-
fast first, and then to milk, so giving the
fog time to lift. After breakfast, in bright
sunshine, my brother and I (aged 10
and 7) brought the cows in, he riding
on the leading sandy milker, I plodding
alongside. The air was still as a vacuum.
We’d reached to within 30ft. of the big
shed when, without the slightest warning
creak or shudder, the whole shed col-
lapsed as flat as a house of cards. The
timbers were big and solid ; and a high
loft added to weight that would have
crushed us had we been in there doing
our usual pre-breakfast milking.—“ Titus.”
* * * *
“Rocky”: A friend bought some tents
at disposal-sales of the Queensland
British Food Corporation, near Spring-
sure (C.Q.), for use on a big cattle-station.
One, given to some abos., when rigged
displayed a large Q.8.F.C., which one
of the occupants immediately interpreted
as “Queensland Black Fellows’ Club.”
* * * * .
“Kelms”: Of four black swans sent
from Perth to be released on the outer
moat of the Imperial Palace in Tokyo,
two died on the voyage and a third in
a Japanese zoo. Another consignment
has been mentioned, with the suggestion
that they’d look nice on the moat with
some white swans already there. They
might, too —until the two species met.
Then there’d be a battle that the locals
would tell their grandchildren about,
swans being about the most vicious
fighters in the bird-world. They scrap
with beak and wing, principally with the
leading-edge of the wing ; and the general
idea is to scalp the opponent or break its
neck. Though the white swan is roughly
twice the size of the black, if the numbers
were even I’d say the meeting on the
moat would be anybody’s fight.
* * * *
“8.J.L.”: Surely “J.C.8.,” in advocat-
ing as remedy for the Queensland
stinging-nettle or Gympie-bush the sap
from the shrub’s bark (B. 25/2/’59),
cannot refer to the North’s broad-leafed
terror. The problem would be how to
get the sap, as the “fur” on the stem
of the genuine nettle is as deadly as that
on the leaf.
% He ❖
“S.G.”: A U.S.. professor recently came
to W.A. to study three birds which nest
in or near the Arctic —the sharp-tailed
and curlew sandpipers and the little-stint.
The three belong to the same family as
the curlews and snipes, and the biggest
of them, the sharp-tailed bloke, tips the
scales at about three ounces. Seeing them
feeding around the edges of rivers and
estuaries yomvouldn’t class them as strong
flyers; but within a few months of
hatching in Siberia they may be tripping
over a mud-flat south of Perth, well
over 10,000 miles from their nesting-sites.
They come down the coast of Asia and
through the island chains to our north
coast, and then down our coasts to the
south, where they spend a few weeks
stocking-up for the return-trip. Why
they cross the Equator when there must
be thousands of suitable localities in the
same latitudes north is one you can
work-out for yourself.
* * * *
“Wandana”: A picturesque character
who disappeared from the countryside
along with the Afghan hawker was the
Indian eye-doctor. Two of them,
brothers —they were always addressed as
“Doctor”—used to work country towns
in S.A. They’d generally remain in one
place for two or three months, renting a
disused office or shop, and their patients
swore by the remedies they prescribed.
Their white turbans and Oriental garb
gave them a dignified appearance and
they were generally accepted in the homes
of their clients, though at mealtimes their
anxiety in case there might be butter in
the cakes or fat in the cooked dishes made
things somewhat awkward.
“Sawtell”: The local country team had
gone down ignominiously before the on-
slaught of the fast-bowler. Then Pintpot,
the abo., last man in, strode to the
creases. Two swipes to the lcng-on fence
were followed by a terrific straight-hit
which missed the speedster’s head by a
whisker as he pounded down the pitch.
As the bowler pulled - up, white and
shaken, Pintpot leaned on his bat non-
chalantly and said: “I’m just showin’ y’,
mate, that y’ can be hitted!”
* * * *
“Villefair”: Big Charlie was musing
as we stretched on the grass waiting for
the rabbit-truck: “I came out from the
Old Country as a skinny, undernourished
youth and got a job with a cow-cocky.
My ambition was to build myself up into
another Sandow ; the way I figured it
out, a bloke ought to be able to train
himself to lift a bull. All you had to
do was pick a calf and keep lifting him,
once a day. I started with a day-older.
He grew and filled out, but so did I.
He didn’t seem to grow any heavier.
When he was twelve months old I could
lift him just as easily. Then I had a row
with the boss and got the sack. It was
a pity, because I reckoned that with my
system I could have chucked that bull
about when he was full-grown.” Tich
opened one eye. “I don’t think it made
much difference,” he drawled. “You’re
still the best bull-tosser I’ve met.”
“Maitri”: A wide variety of birds —
kookaburras, magpies, currawongs, pee-
wees and parrots predominating use
our back lawn as a' canteen, and, when
they’re sick or injured, treat it as a con-
valescent-home and don’t depart till
they’re fully recovered. At present the
star patients are two wounded soldier-
birds ; one has a broken wing, the other
a twisted foot, but neither is so sick
that it will knock-back provender in
plenty, with the result that they’re both
as fat as aldermen. The orthopredic
patient has things worked to a fine art.
Noting you watching him, he hops
pathetically along on one leg ; when you
get where he thinks you can’t see him,
he manages well enough on both.
* * * *
“Sackville”: The do-it-yourself addict
often operates under the handicap of
newspaper advice. For instance, there
was the scribe who instructed amateurs
to resurface a concrete path with a mix-
ture composed of three parts of metal-
screenings, two of sand and one of
cement —shockingly weak mixture for
topping. The cement quantity, of course,
should have been doubled. Another's
information that quantities in brickwork
are calculated by allowing nine bricks
to a sq.-ft. of “double” wall probably
sent a few readers back to the brick-
yard for a car-bootful of bricks to com-
plete their jobs. Nine-and-one-third
bricks per sq.-ft. is the quantity as taught
by tech, colleges—and that is neat, allow-
ing for no breakages or culled-out, poor-
quality bricks (most builders estimate on
10 per sq.-ft.).


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. URQUHART, M. D. PASSMORE, K. W. A. BRIDGES
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
BWBI7I (3 lines) 8L5327
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECELEX,” Sydney
PRiNG DEAN & CO.
H. H. Dean, V. J. Berner, W. E. Hunt, J. A. Hudson,
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
27 Hunter St., SYDNEY. Telephone: BW4OII (3 lines)
Telegrams Address : Pringr Stock Exchange, Sydney.
Cables Address: Einwar, Sydney.
Business, Rollery ,Ete.
H. G. PALMER (CONSOLIDATED), LTD.
Purging along under a stiff
breeze of borrowed money
and with live-wire sales and
service at the helm, H. G.
Palmer (Consolidated) has
spread its operations from
N.S.W. (where it had its
genesis at Bankstown in 1934)
to Victoria, South Australia
and Queensland.
Television has lately been its
chief stock-in-trade in dealing
with the inhabitants. Up to the
end of the 1957 term all its
activities were confined to 16
branches in N.S.W. Today
there is a string of 42
branches through the four
States mentioned, with seven
more on the way.
The small H. G. Palmer
electrical business became a
public co. without TV in 1949.
The first balance-sheet showed
paid capital at £34,000, the
second at £189,375. Capital
remained static for the next
three years. Then it jumped
to £339,375.
An issue of £150,000 in
prefs. for cash was the only
change in capital until 1958.
In November, 1957, there
was a bonus-issue (five-for-
four) of £199,219 to ord.-
holders.
To carry £7.8 million of
tangible assets, the group
showed liabilities and provi-
sions of £6.8 million last
balance-day.
Since then, in July, 1958,
another issue of 478,125 bonus
ss. ords. (one-for-three), repre-
senting £119,531, was distri-
buted from asset-revaluation
reserves.
In August, 1958, 956,250 ss.
ords. issued at par (two-for-
three) brought in £239,062.
In October, 1958, 100,000
ords. of ss. each were issued at
a premium of ss. as part-
consideration for the business
of Music Masters Radio, Bris-
bane.
About the same time
£250,000 of 10 p.c. prefs. was
issued for cash.
On December 17, 1958, paid
capital, as a result of these
additions, had grown to
£1,322,188, of which £580,000
was in 10 p.c. prefs., the rest
in ords.
The group timed its expan-
sion accurately to the begin-
ning of the TV tide. And, so
far, it has remained buoyant
on the same tide, though there
are sections of the trade which
are at present finding the going
harder in N.S.W. and Victoria.
TV-stations have now been
licensed in all other States, but
the total additional prospective
city audiences would not be
equal to that already being
“ Sorry , but I couldn't find the mutton stamp."
served in Sydney or Mel-
bourne.
Sk.imming-off the surplus
earnings of a large pool of
borrowed money and share-
holders’ funds, the cream bulks
large in relation to capital—•
particularly ordinary capi-
tal as it stood at last balance-
day :
Consolidated Figures.
Dividends. Re-
June, Profit. , Ord* ■, serves.f
£ £ £
1950.. 18,688 10 p.c. = 1,366 5,037
Tax underprovided, £1094.'. 3,943
1951.. 31,317 10 p.c. = 9,629 25,631
1952.. 31,729 10 „ „ 17,738 39,622
1953.. 71,755 10 „ ~ 17,738 93,639
1954. .100,676 10 „ ~17,738 176,576
1955. .101,536 10 „ ~ 23,640 254,473
1956.. 96,170 10 „ ~28,988 321,655
Assets revalued, £335,789.. 657,445
1957. .131,318 10 p.c. = 28,988,759,774
Res. capitalised, £199,219.. 560,555
1958. 10 p.c. = 60,959 749,743
* Includes dividends on pref. shares,
now converted to 10 p.c. p.a. f Subject
to intangibles, £410,696 at 30/6/’5B.
Last term consolidated net
trading profit, after paying in-
terest on borrowed money, was
£201,981 higher at £403,505.
Taxation provision was up
£83,152 at £153,358, and the
net result was £118,829
stronger at £250,147.
Allowing for 10 p.c. on all
the prefs. in order to give a
rough idea of earning power,
that was equal to 60 p.c. on
average ord. capital, which
had been more than doubled
by the five-for-four bonus-
issue at the beginning of
the term. Again distribution
to the ords. were kept to a con-
servative 10 p.c., and £189,188
was carried to reserves, which
at £749,743 (subject to intan-
gibles) included the leftovers
from the £336,789 asset-re-
valuation which preceded the
1957 bonus-issue. Most of this
remaining revaluation reserve
has been absorbed by the 1958
bonus-issue.
Among Australian public
companies the financial struc-
ture at June 30 last was almost
as novel as TV itself:
Parent and Subsidiary.
Capital— 1957. 1958.
Ord. .. .. £159,375 £358,594
Pref 180,000 330,000
Reserves .. 759,774 749,743
Outside interests . 16,188 16,188
Secured loans . . 1,830,356 2,259,149
Unsecured loans 24-,536 22,436
Fixed-deposit
notes . . . . 2,004.642 3,648,120
Mortgages . . 140,590 218,105
Sundry creditors 361,766 377,792
H.-p. creditors. . 35,634 81,096
Tax provision .. 130,418 153,339
Final div. .. 11,681 34,430
£5,654,960 £8,248,998
Land, buildings,
plant .. .. 977,638 1,636,090
Premises advances 23,202
Mortgage loans.. 3,720
Shares in co. . . 85,200 85,200
Stock .. .. 705,267 1,170,451
T.-p.’s and debtors 3,128,307 4,606,832
Cash, etc. . . 367,866 312,807
Intangibles . . 390,682 410,696
£5,654,960 £8,248,998
The spread of activities to
other States was mainly instru-
mental in bringing a lift of
£658,452 (to £1,636,090) in
premises, plant, vehicles, etc.
Stocks rose by £465,184 to
£1,170,451. But the most
striking development was again
in time-payment and other


Ift«
-4J,
W
•*5* v >:->• ,v * s &
*«£< .. . <v r-
«%#»
Let A.N.Z. BANK make all your
travel arrangements
Their travel experts will be happy to attend to sea and air bookings,
accommodation, assist you with tax arrangements, passport and visas
—in short, every detail of your trip. Travel abroad with the knowledge
that everything is handled reliably through A.N.Z. BANK.
Money for Travel
Whenever you travel, carry A.N.Z. Bank Travellers' Cheques. Readily
encashable, they are the safe, convenient way of carrying money.
Travellers' Credits, which enable you to draw money at A.N.Z. Bank
branches and agents throughout the world, are also available, if desired.
A.N.Z. Bank Travel Service is available through every branch of
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
ANZ536.2458R
debtors —a lift of £1,478,525,
to £4,606,832.
This was supported by over
£6 million of registered fixed-
deposit notes and funds pro-
vided for t.-p. and hire-pur-
chase, plus sundry creditors
and other items, as well as
shareholders’ funds. Interest
payable on borrowed money is
not shown, but it ranges up to
10 p.c. On balance, net tan-
gible assets figured at
£1,027,641. Since balance-day
this figure has been increased
by the new capital and
premiums (about £540,000)
introduced.
Commenting on seasonal
(and other) variables in sales
of TV, chairman Sir Norman
Nock has mentioned that
attempts are being made to
balance H. G. Palmer’s sales-
policy by including refrige-
rators, washing-machines, etc.
Also to balance the position
overall by spreading to other
States. A five-year cycle is
anticipated in the life and re-
newal of TV-sets. The co.’s
after-sales service is regarded
as being a major factor in
bringing the H. G. Palmer
organisation to the point where
it is the largest electrical-goods
distributor in the Southern
Hemisphere. Servicing TV, on
overseas experience, attracts
more revenue than initial sales
of sets.
The H. G. Palmer group has
exhibited organising ability and
financial audacity that have
left others rather flabbergasted.
Up to date the policy has paid-
off handsomely. The future is
not without its question-marks.
One question is whether sail
will need to be shortened as
the TV-boom eases, or
whether, indeed, renewals and
service, plus other lines
handled, will maintain turn-
over. Another question is
whether t.-p. debts will be
vulnerable. So long as sales
have been made with reason-
able care and unemployment
does not become a serious fac-
tor in the economy the posi-
tion should be little different
from the h.-p. business as a
whole, except that this co.
has been trading on a greater
proportion of borrowed money
than most h.-p. concerns.
The sharemarket has been
strongly attracted to the stock.
The ss. shares are selling at
11s. 3d., to show a yield of
£4 Bs. lid. per cent, on a 10
p.c. div. basis.
Coal and Agitation
HThe coal situation is receiv-
ing its normal attention in
the daily and Communist press,
which give the impression that
the industry is in dire straits,
with men thrown out of work
wantonly while owners pros-
per without limit to their
rapacity.
These agitations spring-up
every few months as new
batches of men are put-off,
but they die quickly as the
men are absorbed in other
fields or into other industries.
This does not, however,
prevent Miners’ Federation
officials in particular from
renewing their propaganda at
every new transfer or closure,
Most of these closures are
achieved only after months of
prior warning, which should
enable the men affected to
make other arrangements, as
many of them do with the aid
of the combined committees
representing every interest
working on the problem. But
the policy of the leaders of the
Miners’ Federation seems to be
to make each case a subject for
political agitation, to stir-up
discontent in the coalmines,
As soon as it is evident that
men will be laid-off perman-
ently or temporarily obstruc-
tion, go-slow and every other
tactic known to the Com-
munist party is employed to
punish the mine-owner,
The facts of the matter are
that throughout World War
II unionism had a shocking
record on the coalfields, the
Miners’ Federation, with the


.
’
■
iHP
I<z £/wt.. c£jyoj'€ye ao
y
■-*
.
- l |
* &
KWXwftw
‘mmm&z
vjWw'
s:
\
li?
X
9o
. y
.
«
""///
s
W>tcf,
%
vvl»//.
'i
i
l i s\\>>
/ ■■' l * (s ri L ??rcH^
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES, DISTILLED & BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
Arthur Bell & Sons Ltd., Distillers, Perth, Scotland. Est. 1825
backing of the Common-
wealth and State Governments,
virtually taking control of the
industry and using that con-
trol sometimes to sabotage the
war effort while the Moscow-
Berlin alliance was in being,
and sometimes to harass pri-
vate industry with a view to
bringing about the objective of
nationalisation written into the
Constitution of the basic
unions.
It was only when the action
of the federation threatened
the very economic foundations
of the Commonwealth on the
eve of a Federal election in
1949 that the Chifley-Evatt
Government was forced to
crush its own allies during the
great June-August strike which
had as its private objective the
destruction of the newly
operating Joint Coal Board,
which the federation and its
Communist leaders regarded as
a hated rival. (They still do.)
The facts are perfectly clear
about the development since
then. At the end of the war
the N.S.W. coal industry was
overall the most primitive and
unprofitable in the world. It
was a Cinderella industry with
the Taxation Department, re-
ceiving none of the concessions
given other sections of the
mining industry. Among its
17,000 employees it accounted
for more strikes and more loss
of man-days than the whole of
the rest of Australia’s two-
million-odd workers put to-
gether. Intermittency, in the
days before the depression
when the mines were keeping
6000 to 7000 redundant miners
at work producing coal that
there was no hope of sell-
ing for companies which had
no chance of making profits
any longer, was chronic ;
and on the northern N.S.W.
fields in one or two years the
number of working-days per
year was in the range of only
150-160.
Today wages have risen con-
sistently year by year since
the war and hours and condi-
tions have improved out of
sight, as have amenities of
mines and coal-towns. The
industry as a whole has three-
weeks’ holiday in the year.
Every miner is entitled to pen-
sions, long-leave and a hun-
dred other privileges. Working-
conditions have become easy
through general mechanisation,
which, though its record of
safety and producton in other
countries left its superiority
beyond doubt, has always been
thwarted by the Miners’
Federation.
Under union influence
mechanisation did not make
real progress until the days of
the Joint Coal Board. At pre-
sent 85 per cent, of the mines
on the southern and western
N.S.W. fields are fully mecha-
nised both as to cutting and
loading, and when the mines
now being reorganised on the
northern N.S.W. fields are
mechanised, the proportion will
be the same around Newcastle
and Maitland. Only the Com-
munist agitator complains of
this, for mechanisation has
brought increased profits,
though dividends are limited
by Joint Coal Board supervi-
sion to 10 per cent., plus special
incentives. It has brought
increases in wages and incen-
tive-payments to all. The miner
is paid a special bonus if he
works the whole of a 10-day
fortnight instead of disrupt-
ing the team in which he works
by taking odd days off.
The consumer is better-
treated, too, for mechanisa-
tion is steadily bringing down
the price of coal. Mechanisa-
tion has meant that in some
mines the wage has gone up as
much as 25 p.c. in the last eight
years, while during the same
period the price of coal has
come down in the same mines
a pound or more.
What is happening in regard
to employment is that with
fewer industrial stoppages and
mechanisation and industrial
peace, which is such that some
mines producing as much as
half-a-million tons last year
did not lose a single ton of
coal through industrial trouble,
the production of coal has
soared above the capacity of
the market to absorb it. The
N.S.W. output was 15,700,000
tons during the past year, with
under 17,000 men employed.
Nine years ago, with over
20,000 men employed, it was
at least 4,000,000 tons lower.
Within the next two or three
years both production and
manpower should find their
levels as mechanisation be-
comes nearly complete and
export markets expand as they
are expanding.
It is rubbish to say, as Mr.
Neilly, the general-secretary of
the Miners’ Federation, who is
a candidate at the N.S.W.
State elections, said, that the
position of the coal industry
is approaching the disastrous
position of 1929. His theory,
and that of the federation,
seems to be that the coal trade
is morally bound to keep its
methods obsolescent in order
to employ hundreds or thous-
ands of unneeded men, or, in
the alternative, to employ the
men, anyway, for life whether
there is work for them or not.
It was that sort of thinking,
enforced by bullying unions,
which brought about the
disaster of 1929-30, from
which the coal industry did
not recover for a quarter-of-a-
century.
Kent Refinery
[From L,. Owen]
A/fosT Australians are oil-
_L refinery conscious owing
to the rapid development here
of petroleum-processing and
its economic importance. A
recently published brochure,
dealing with the Kent refinery,
which is one of the largest and
most modern in Europe, can-
not fail to interest thifcm.
The refinery covers 965
acres on the Isle of Grain, in
England, near the mouth of
the Thames, and the booklet
describes its construction—
which cost well over £lOO
million in Australian currency
—and its operation.
The opening section deals
with the history of the Isle of
Grain (Anglo-Saxon, Grene =
sandbank), and then goes on
to describe how a quagmire
was transformed into a foun-
dation solid enough to bear
the weight of the refinery. The
succeeding sections give de-
tails of the erection and opera-
tion of the many separate
units which constitute a
modern refinery, the jetties and
the pipes—800 miles of them
—which transport more than
seven-million tons of crude
oil throughout the plant each
year, as well as the products
and the ancillary fluids such
as water and steam.
Each separate process is
explained in non-technical
(but correct) terms in the
letterpress, and is profusely
illustrated by photographs and
diagrams. At the end there
is a simplified flow-diagram
covering all major processing.
Interested Bulletin readers
who wish to obtain copies of
the booklet, which is free,
should apply to BP Australia,
Ltd., 105-153 Miller Street,
North Sydney.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO JOHN BOURCHIER MEIKLEJOIIN
late of 44 Rodd Street Canowindra. —
TAKE NOTICE that LORRAINE
FLORENCE MEIKLEJOIIN has filed
Petition for Divorce No. 3838 of 19.38
on the ground of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or
excuse and habitual drunkenness and
cruelty during three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may file an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by the 19th May 1959
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. LESLIE
RUNDLE & H. M. TAUBMAN. 6G King
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO THERESE CONSTABLE late of
I.eeton.—TAKE NOTICE that the said
JACK HENRY CONSTABLE has filed a
Petition No. 137 of 19.38 for dissolu-
tion of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years without just
cause or excuse and is asking the exer-
cise of the CSurt’s discretion in his
favour under Section 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899-1958 If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court Macquarie Street Sydney by the
15th day of May 1959 A copy of the
Petition may be obtained without charge
from J. B. MOFFATT & SON, Soli-
citors, 104 Hunter Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Land Bridge of Three Continents
KEEP IT CLEAR!
By "ONE SPUR"
Tn 1948, at the time of the last
Berlin crisis, war seemed
very close. But a shrewd and
well-informed observer said
then: “The Russians won’t
fight over this, they’ll drive
us to the brink and cause us
the maximum amount of
trouble ; but they aren’t ready
yet and won't fight until they
are.” He gave his own estimate
of when they would be ready
and at least one of his hearers
was astonished. His estimate
has so far proved right, even
though those of us in Vienna at
that time felt a bit out on a
limb, placed as we were in the
midst of the Russian zone. The
airlift certainly gave the
Russians a shock ; but it didn’t
make them change their minds
about war, because they never
intended to go to war at that
time.
The same was true over
Korea. This was an inevitable
part of the Communist offen-
sive, which could be seen
coming for a long time ahead.
Indo-China, too, and the off-
shore islands in both offensives.
To assess the danger of the
present Russian threat to Berlin
and Western Germany it is
necessary to look at the matter
from the Communist point of
view and determine just how
much they stand to gain by
pushing the issue to the point
of war.
The Communist aim is to
conquer the world, and it can’t
be too often stressed that they
intend to do this by winning
Asia and, if possible, Africa,
to their side. Meanwhile they
plan to cause the maximum
strategic disruption to the
Western nations by playing on
every possible racial or nation-
alist antagonism they can find.
Combined with this, they have
launched an economic offen-
sive which has shown itself at
every point, from Russian
financial and material aid given
to Egypt, over to the Chinese
attempt to conquer world-
markets in such things as fruit-
growing. All this fits exactly
into orthodox Marxian doc-
trine: wars, revolution, finan-
cial strain and stress which will
ultimately cause the capitalist
world to wither away. It also
fits Lenin’s theory: “Win Asia,
win all.”
Why, then, are the Russians
making a to-do about Berlin?
If they hope to gain the world
through Asia, what do they
hope to get from a diversion
in Europe? The first answer
seems to be simply that—diver-
sion, which strategically they
are capable of creating (since
they are working on interior
lines) and distraction of the
Western world’s attention from
their schemes elsewhere. This
is the first possibility. If it is
true, then the chances of
their pushing the matter to war
do not seem great.
The second possibility is that
they may now be ready for war
and prepared to risk all in an
attempt to knock-out their most
dangerous enemies first. These
dangerous enemies are the
Germans, the British and the
U.S. Air Force bases in the
British Isles. If that’s their
aim, then they are more likely
to risk war if they are prepared.
That last proviso must
remain imponderable to the
man - in - the - street. Certainly
Western intelligence-staffs will
have assessed the present Com-
munist strength and potential.
Only by knowing this can any-
one decide whether war will
develop from the Russian
ultimatum or not.
The third possibility is allied
to the first —nuisance-value by
disruption of the Western
alliance. This has so far failed
completely, and looks as if it
will continue to do so. As the
Anglo-American alliance was
strong enough to withstand the
strain of Suez, it is strong
enough to stand the stress of
the present time of anxiety,
when at least ideas are more
unanimous. If that is so, then
war is unlikely, unless someone
on one side or the other loses
his head and starts loosing-
off nuclear weapons.
Other factors, however, enter
into the issue. These may give
some pointer towards future
Communist action. The first
is that strategically and eco-
nomically the ground vital to
Russia is the Levant and the
Middle East. Throughout
Russian history there has been
constant effort to gain control
of the area from Afghanistan
to Turkey. This is natural,
since Russia has no southern
outlet, and, in fact, has not
achieved one yet, although she
has done her best to get one.
Until she has physical
possession of the great land-
bridge of the world she cannot
act from a firm base, which
she needs to fulfil her aims.
Russia has ventured into
Europe before (not with strik-
ing success until the peace after
War II gave her all she wanted).
There’s possibly nothing to
prevent her pushing into
Germany and at the same time
advancing in the Levant.
But the Russian leaders and
their Chinese fellow-travellers
are no fools. If they can
achieve their aim by more
economical means they will not
unnecessarily waste their effort
on two fronts simultaneously.
That’s the hard-hearted realism
of the shrewd, calculating
bargainers they are.
What’s happening in the
Middle East? That’s where the
world’s most dangerous
powder-keg is waiting to be
exploded at any moment —
Israel’s existence in the midst
of the U.A.R. Russia is
reported to be allowing Jews
from Rumania and Eastern
Europe to migrate to Israel.
At the same time, Communists
are working against Nasser in
Syria. Nasser is justifiably
worried, since his armed forces
are largely equipped with
Soviet material and could be
immobilised in the event of
Communist hostility.
That looks much more like
the Russian game than any
showdown in Europe. They
won in Iraq last year, and now
they are after Syria, nibbling
away, and ready to stir-up the
Israel-Arab war which may
give them their eventual
chance to march in “to restore’
order” and seize the Levant,
including Israel and its Dead
Sea minerals, the Suez Canal,
the oilfields and as much of
Africa as they can get.
The Western world cannot
ignore the threat in Germany.
But, at the same time, a little
forward thinking might pre-
vent Russian schemes from
maturing in the Levant. We
must keep the land-bridge
clear, and that may mean
reversing previous decisions.
Nassef has evidently seen the
Communist danger. True
Oriental that he is, he will not
commit himself either way until
he sees which will help him
most and that won’t be
Russia. Nasser needs arms and
financial assistance. Let the
Western nations offer them
and see what happens. He will
almost certainly come to our
side (for what good he and
his gimcrack Army are). But
at least that would be one more
foothold gained against Com-
munism.
No question of “imperialism”
comes into it; pure common-
sense—the commonsense which
guided the English strategists
of 150 years ago, when they
assessed the importance of that
bridge where Europe, Asia and
Africa join.
They never sought to hold
it, merely to keep the pathway
clear and, as long as this was
their policy, there was never
trouble with the Arab world.
It was only after War I when
the idealists and policy-makers
came in that trouble started.
Lets go back to common-
sense.


start the dau right
n.
>7
'
Oi
t^c
UUOIHC
EKDE r
[isss
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“The Slaughter of St.
Teresa’s Day”
If people flock to Sydney
Elizabethan for the first run
of Peter Kenna’s first play it
will be because of its highly
colored characters and con-
versation-pieces ; the half-and-
half play is possible, but this
effort to mix comedy and
tragedy has a weak dramatic
line.
While the Paddington
madam is preparing for her
quiet St. Teresa’s Day party
her man brings home a safe-
cracker just out of stir. Two
nuns accompany her schoolgirl
daughter home for a short
holiday, and the safecracker
considers seducing the
daughter.
In Act II the madam’s ex-
prostitute friend arrives with
her young husband—also just
out of stir —and is reconciled
to her husband's old Irish
father. The safecracker treats
the schoolgirl daughter to a
luscious kiss; the madam,
arriving unexpectedly
from the kitchen, de-
nounces the safecracker;
her man and the safe-
cracker fight, and shoot
each other off-stage.
In Act 111, the madam and
the ex-prostitute return from
hospital and police-station.
The two fighters are dead.
Anxiety whether the Irish
uncle and his son will be
jailed as accessories is resolved
by their return. The school-
girl daughter spurns her
mother, saying that although
the safecracker was bad, at
least he loved her as a person,
whereas her mother only wants
‘I’m sick of spending all my leave cleaning-up
the house!”
to get rid of her: she is going
back to school, and then will
become a nun.
The play is thus a study in
opposites, but there is no real
conflict. The main action is
between mother and daughter,
and since from Act I mother
has acquiesced in daughter’s
going into a convent, if only
to get rid of her, there is no
real feeling of a problem
solved when she goes there. A
play like this, fact piled on
fact, spaced-out by “delicious
cameos,” or conversation-
pieces that hold-up the plot,
increases one’s regressive
nostalgia for the play-of-
stratagem, where a conflict of
wills produces a swift con-
tinuity of action and counter-
action.
Neva Carr-Glyn, as the red-
haired madam writhing in un-
accustomed corsets, coarse,
sentimental and ruthless, the
unerring vulgarity of her kind
magnified by money, power
and dressmakers ; and Dorothy
Whitely, as her capable and
mordantly good-natured old
Irish aunt-of-all-work, fit per-
fectly into parts that have
been written for them with
almost affectionate insight,
Patricia Connolly avoids the
conventional trap of cuteness
by playing a schoolgirl-
daughter as ruthlessly good as
her mother is ruthlessly bad.
Because his part is written that
way, Grant Taylor, as the safe-
breaker, is the play’s most
efficient and economical actor,
though his villainy has more
the overtones of the G.P.S.
cad than of the old-boy of
Long Bay ; and Des Rolfe, as
the madam’s boy-friend, is so
natural as to be hardly notice-
able.
The next group—ex-prosti-
tute, husband and father-in-law
—are accidental 'To, the play,
but it would be worth going
merely to see Dinah Shearing
melting those beautiful bones
in a hula to propitiate her
father-in-law, or speaking of
her love in the reserved and
exquisite voice of a princess
condescending to the intona-
tions of the gutter —or merely
to see her face. Rodney Mil-
gate, as her husband, sulks and
plays the piano less like a real
ex-con. than an ex- of Sir
Bernard Heinze’s Con.
But the true tragedy of the
evening was Frank Waters, that
usually fierce bravo, clear as
malediction, bent in this play
under the weight of the stage-
irishman on his back, singing,
dancing, sliding the circuit of
the stage with incredible light-
ness, telling an Ould Oirish-
man’s anecdote for what
seemed like 15 minutes —not
one word of which the reviewer
could hear in the Circle —the
cast turning to watch him as
he circled around them, listen-
ing absorbed while, minute by
minute, the play slipped through
' their fingers.
Maybe one’s interest in the
play would have appreciated if
that interminable story had
been intelligible. The author’s
intention was clear: the
audience, lulled and charmed
by this long, boring old family-
tale in which the party had
achieved innocence and recon-
ciliation, was to be stirred by
the safebreaker’s attempt to
seduce the daughter and then
shocked by the quarrel and
shooting that brought down the
curtain on Act 11. But it was
not to be. When the shock
came the audience was out of
the groove.
And so, after an Act 111 in
which nothing new was said
except a lot of virtuous dis-
section of the madam’s ego by
her convent-sister, Diana Bell —
ah, those didactic lectures sub-
stituted for action, while the
audience shifts moodily in its
seats!—one went away picking
moodily at the play as you
would pick up beads from a
broken necklace: Oola ex-
claiming, after an account of
St. Teresa’s miracles, “ Won-
derful what they can do!”;
Aunt Essie explaining that
Oola’s women friends couldn't
come to the party because they
worked at night, and present-
ing the newly - married
Wilma with an embroidered
cloth that had been meant for
her own trousseau, years
before; Wilma shamefacedly
confessing to having been
married, and the joy of sign-
ing a hotel-register “Mr. and
Mrs.” when it happened to be
true ; and Wilma dancing the
hula with that maddening
abstraction they have, as


Missing Friend
WOULD anyone knowing the where-
abouts of STANLEY WALLACE REID
of Woodenbong please communicate
urgently with the undersigned. His
description is: Age 56, height sft. 9in.,
thin to medium build, fair sunburnt
complexion, blue eyes. He was last
seen at Ballina on 23rd February, 1959.
—SOMERVILLE LAUNDRY LOMAX &
NEWTON, Solicitors, Lysmore, N.S.W.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
O'SUCLIVan
PTYLTD v
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC' PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
though being beautiful doesn’t
matter.
Two Beckett Plays
“You’re on earth, man,”
says one of Samuel Beckett’s
characters, “and there’s no
cure for that.”
This is the statement made
in different ways by the two
short Beckett plays—“ En-
dgame” and “All That Fall” —
on Sydney University Dra-
matic Society’s current pro-
gramme at the Wallace
Theatre.
Both plays are wry and dis-
turbing images of human
misery. They are full of off-
beat wit; touches of lyricism
and broad comedy; sudden
flickers of terror and stabs of
pathos. They are “difficult,”
but they are among the few
plays for which the claim can
honestly be made that com-
plete understanding is not
essential to enjoyment. Accept
their impossible basic proposi-
tions and you see that they
contain a valid dramatic logic
which carries you along
whether you take it in or only
feel it.
Pamela Trethowan’s simple
and thoughtful productions
caught and held this internal
scheme through the many
changes of mood, building the
elusive climaxes with assur-
ance and never yielding to the
obvious temptations to indulge
in theatrical gimmickry.
One doubts, though, whether
it was a good idea to try to
realise “All That Fall” in terms
of the stage. Though it is of
all Beckett’s plays the nearest
to realism, it was originally
written (with astonishing skill)
for radio —the only medium
which could economically sug-
gest its suffering heroine’s long
walk to meet her blind husband
at a country railway-station;
the people who pass her by
cart and bicycle ; the man who
picks her up in his car ; the
train itself ; and the queer per-
vading mood of the talk. The
stage version asks us to
imagine all the scenery except
the station, thus falling be-
tween two stools. It also boxes
the play, breaking the fluid
line it would have in the
listening, and overdoes the
impression of aimlessness.
Still, Robyn Waterhouse and
Roger Lupton gave firm and
moving accounts of the heroine
and her husband; and
Margaret Alderton produced
a neat sketch of the vague
spinster at the station.
“Endgame,” though at times
it seemed like Beckett parody-
ing himself, was far more
effective. Here the framework
is an isolated room on the edge
of nowhere containing a blind
paralytic in an armchair, his
legless parents confined in
barrels, and a manservant who
can’t sit down. Nothing ever
happens to them; they frus-
trate each other’s expecta-
tions ; they can’t live with
or without each other; and
they can’t understand or really
communicate with each other.
Perfect stalemate, and over it
all a sense of something ending
(beginning?), not with a bang
but a whimper—a whimper
with something of an ex-
hausted giggle in it.
All four players gave con-
fident and well-timed perform-
ances —notably Grahame Mc-
Pherson, as the blind man, and
Peter Fry, as the manservant.
J. A.
❖ ❖
“The Harp In The South”
Produced and directed by
Najwa Basheer, who also took
a leading part, Ruth Park’s
picture of life in a slum-area
(adapted for stage by Leslie
Rees) sprang into reasonable
focus at Sydney’s St. Phillip’s
Hall, the Huntington Players
declaiming from a stage so un-
selfconsciously working-class
that the faded Bible pictures
and the superb slab of peeling
paint were entirely right.
Humor, pathos and drama
rub shoulders. In Hugh Darcy
there is the humor of Aus-
tralian colloquialism in its
natural habitat; a gentler
humor in his wife —one would
like to imagine her the typical
Surry Hills mum, deadpan
(mostly) and dedicated—and
pathos blanketing the half-wit
Johnnie Sheilly, shambling un-
certainly to a premature death
to escape from his hating
mother.
There is Rowie Darcy, figur-
ing as the first voice in a minor-
key fugue. Second voice, her
crippled boy-friend Tommy;
third voice, her plumber-
admirer Charlie. Development
—Rowie becomes pregnant to
Tommy. Recapitulation—she
goes back to Charlie.
Such a philosophy as
“living your life the way
it is without asking too
many questions” fits the Darcy
household admirably, but
Charlie wants to take Rowie
to live in another suburb. A
hint of class-consciousness?
But Miss Park compromises:
Charlie and Rowie stay for
the time being. Again, the
schoolgirl daughter finds her-
self selected to appear on a
quiz-session, and the study of
reactions underscores the class
outlook: Mumma Darcy is
overjoyed; her husband is
angry because he feels the girl
shouldn’t be too bright.
The value of the play is in its
rich picture of Australian
suburban life. This must have
impressed itself on the com-
pany, because they played
straight from the heart. As
Grandma, Najwa Basheer drew
plenty of laughs (the pudding-
stirring scene in Act I, for
instance) and almost certainly
a tear of two; Hugh Darcy
was nobly played by J. C.
MacFarlane; Patti Asange
made a tender if sometimes
shallow person of Mumma;
Eunice Wilkinson gave a crisp
performance as the schoolgirl
daughter. Graham Dein
wasn’t happily cast as the
crippled boy-friend ; and Jean
Stark, as Rowie, was often
compelling.
Artbursts
Easter Exhibition
The work on show at Mac-
quarie Galleries’ (Sydney)
Easter Exhibition is typical
enough of the painters contri-
buting, but none of it is typical
of their best or boldest. Some
of the pictures seem to be
essays that might lead to work
of depth and finish; most,
however, are mere revisions
and recapitulations.
Outstanding among the first
group are Thomas Gleghorn’s
“Towards a Landscape,” a
harmonious abstract that
comes right to the edge of a
Complete statement; and Drys-
dale’s disconcerting “Rain-
maker,” in which the old
aboriginal emerges dimly from
his background, as if he were
rising (or sinking) gently and
silently out of (or into) the
earth. Eric Smith’s “The
Chalice” is tall, confused and
rather desperate; and lan
Fairweather’s “River Side,”
though attractively colored,
lacks firmness and clarity.
There are two Justin
O’Briens —careful, rich in
color and design, but stylised
to the point of stiffness ; John
Coburn has a pair of black
shapes like huge insects dis-
cordant on a geometrical back-
ground ; Carington Smith’s
“Girl Reading” is his usual
girl in his usual cool manner ;
and Kenneth Hood’s “Cafe,
Rome,” is an agreeable
arrangement of a table with
bottle, etc., against church
domes framed in a window.
Films
“The Last Hurrah”
An old baby-kissing poli-
tician (Spencer Tracy) has
come up from the Irish-
American gutter to be mayor
of a New England town, and,
on the edge of retirement, is
running his last campaign for
re-election. We see him crack-
ing jokes on the rostrum,
slapping backs, dispensing
largesse, and putting a skid
or two under his enemies. He
is a hypocrite, and ruthless;
he is also shrewd, humorous
and basically good.
The deeper questions raised
by the spectacle of a modern


ill lAlllia JL/NCQ
m
mmm
mauk a cm avilV
mmmWmmi: «P W 31 #BB B W
ura
uiMUMU .. - ■* -M- A. f Wl
When it comes to automotive spare parts,
only one brand is genuine. No copy of. a
genuine spare part can be completely identical
to the original. Only those spare parts made
to the original design specifications can be
relied upon to give the same satisfactory service.
When your car is being serviced, for safety’s
sake insist on spare parts made by the
manufacturer of the original equipment. You
can get original equipment Lockheed, Borg &
Beck, Thompson and Purolator spare parts
from approved wholesalers and appropriate
vehicle distributors.
the parts tested, proven and chosen
by the manufacturer of YOUR car.
GENUINE
FLUID
BRAKE
SPARES
f fifSr
BORG£BECK
CLUTCH SPARES
nMOMTOHI
FILTERS & ELEMENTS
< lhompsoti
I
m m& .iJ
BRITISH AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRIES PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
8A166/10.5
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2Jr
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
election-campaign are, however,
avoided. Edwin O’Connor’s
story was about the demise of
the old-style politician—able
and earthy under his surface of
ballyhoo—and the rise of the
new. man, the TV candidate
with a toothpaste grin and no
convictions. The film avoids
serious consideration of this
trend, too, by simply turning
Tracy’s opponent into an in-
credible caricature.
And then, instead of ending
with the defeated Tracy walking
away through his opponent’s
victory parade (when it would
have been a fairish film in its
way), the script goes off into
one of those heart-attack and
death - with - his-friends-aboutr-
him sequences, with poor old
Spencer cracking hard-boiled
jokes as he slips away.
At Sydney Lyceum.
**♦ +++
“Violent Playground”
Apart from one or two slips,
this is a very good attempt to
show how, in an industrial
community, crime begins—and
ends.
Set in Liverpool, the story
concerns a detective assigned
to the job of juvenile liaison-
officer: a kind of caretaker of
the young. He finds that a
very young brother and sister
have been pinching money
from grocery-stores ; later he
finds the kids’ big sister is an
attractive young lady and her
brother the ringleader of a
group of hoodlums.
The youthful ringleader,
who likes to set apartments on
fire, gradually degenerates,
acquiring a machine-gun with
which to make himself even
tougher. The ex-detective falls
for the boy’s sister; between
fond gazes at her he solves the
question of the fires and moves
in. The climax comes when the
boy locks himself in a class-
room of the local school with
some children and his machine-
gun.
The moral is obvious, but
the film mercifully refrains
from preaching it. David Mc-
Callum plays the principal
hoodlum with stark force ; and
Stanley Baker is an occasion-
ally inspired cop.
At Sydney Capitol,


Telegraphic and Cable address: “Brownhills.”
Telephone: BW 1465 (3 lines).
A. H. BROWNHILL & CO.
(A. H. Brownhill, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
27 O'Connell Street Sydney
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771—8 W 8088
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Felt and Textiles of Australia, Ltd.
HTracing its lineage from a company
founded in Sydney in 1921 to pioneer
the manufacture in Australia of felted
piecegoods, the Feltex empire today
bestrides three dominions Australia,
New Zealand and South Africa.
On the whole, it hasn’t done badly
by its backers. The public was asked
to put-up money in 1936, and since then
div.-rates have averaged a shade over 10
p.c. On the other hand, although there
were good capital-gains to be had early
in the piece, no fresh equity-money has
been gathered in since 1951, and indica-
tions are that Feltex has, for a time,
reached its optimum capitalisation, at
least, as far as the parent is concerned.
In 1952 shareholders were given an
awful scare when a book-loss of nearly
half-a-million reflected a heavy stock
readjustment necessitated by the sudden
collapse of wool. This one blot on the
group’s escutcheon still seems to influence
sharemarket thinking, and possibly ex-
plains why, at the drop of a hat, the
20s. ords. will fall toward par and then
recover. This seems to be the annual
pattern, average limits, high and low,
over the past few years being about 30s.
and 225. 6d. Latest market-price of 28s.
offers what looks a fairly well-assured
yield of 7.1 p.c. on a div. basis of 10 p.c.
As was to be expected, under the pre-
vailing economic climate, there was some
reduction in the consolidated net profit
for 1958, but this was more moderate
than might have been expected, even
allowing for the lighter tax-burden and
higher depreciation-allowances. In fact,
taking into consideration that the 1956-57
group-profit, in addition to including
profits of Felt and Textiles of South
Africa, Ltd., for the year ended lune 30,
1957, include also a dividend of £43,507
(after deduction of South African tax),
received from that company in respect
to the year ended lune 30, 1956, there
was actually a small rise.
At home, sales of floor-coverings,
woollen felt, insulation and wastes, foot-
wear and plastics either equalled or
bettered those of the previous year. The
textile-mills producing worsted yarn and
woollen and worsted piecegoods met with
considerable difficulty, while the clothing
division, now restricted mainly to em-
broidered and quilted materials, also had
a lean year.
The wool division processed 39.77
million lb. of greasy wool, equal to
16.6 p.c. of all wool processed in Aus-
tralia, but down 11 p.c. on 1956-57
figures. Wooltop and noil production
continued on a strong note, but scouring
and carbonising business was slacker.
The biggest problem of the wool-textile
industry today, apart from the competi-
tion of synthetics, is the reluctance on
the part of wholesale and retail houses
to saddle themselves with stocks in the
face of a depressed and uncertain wool-
market. The result is that manufacturers
must either carry the whole risk them-
selves by stockpiling proprietary lines, or
else feed the production-line spasmodi-
cally with such firm orders as come in, a
course entailing inefficiencies and higher
costs.
So far Feltex seems to be riding easily
on the rising swell, and as the table below
shows, the visible net profit for 1957-58
wasn’t greatly below the peak of 1953-54.
However, the prosperous South African
offshoot, in which the parent owns rather
more than half the ords., wasn’t treated
as a fully-fledged subsidiary in the con-
solidated accounts until 1956-57 and
caution must be exercised in comparisons
with earlier years:
, Dive.
Net Pref. Re-
June, Profit.* 6<& 4 p.c. Ordinary. serves, f
1953. .506,054 64,800 8 p.c. = 303,965 3,638,471
From contingencies, £44,261 .. .. 3,682,732
Tax underprovision, £23,629 . . . . 3,659,103
Added capital reserves, £176,773 .. 3,835,876
Added general reserves, £14,036 .. 3,849,912
Unexplained additions, £21,617 . . 3,871,529 •
Net addition intangibles, £6027 .. 3,865,502
1954. .702,694 64,800 10 p.c. = 379,956 4,123,440
Tax overprovided, £7471 .. .. 4,130,911
Less capital reserves, £31,323 .. 4,099,588
Less revenue reserves, £416 .. ..4,099,172
Net addition intangibles, £11,653. . 4,087,519
1955. .617,532 64,800 10 p.c. = 379,956 4,260,295
Tax overprovided, £9541 .. .. 4,269,836
Added capital reserves, £7946 .. 4,277,782
Adj. liq. subsidiary, £5746 .. 4,272,036
Net addition intangibles, £6825 .. 4,265,211
Add sinking-fund income, £7996 . . 4,273,207
1956. .574,546 64,800 10 p.c. = 379,956 4,402,997
Less long-service prov., £.100,000.. 4,302,997
Tax overprovision, £24,484 .. .. 4,327,481
Pre-acquisition profits £403,616 .. 4,731,097
sale fixed assets, £31,666 . . 4,762,763
revaluation fixed assets £1,030,416 5,793,179
Written-off plant, £463,782 . . . . 5,329,397
Net addition intangibles, £14,891 .. 5,314,506
1957. .687,916 64,800 10 p.c. = 379,956 5.557.666
Add intangibles w/off, £1097 .. 5,558,763
Profit sale assets, £5166 .. .. 5,563,929
Profit on cancellation of debentures,
£9030 5,572,959
Tax overprovision, £12,634 .. .. 5,585,593
Pre-acquisition reserves and profits,
£2145 5,587,738
Unexplained addition, £3668 .. 5,591,406
Less special depreciation, £3184 .. 5,588.222
Note-issue expenses \v/off, .. £38,450 5,549,772
1958. .672,290 64,800 10 p.c. = 379,956 5,777,306
* After deducting outside shareholders’ interests.
t After deducting goodwill, etc., £191,318 at
30/6/’5B.
Consolidated sales of £35,131,000 for
1957-58 were 1.7 p.c. lower than in the
previous year, due to a fall of 4 p.c. in
the Australian company’s sales. The two
overseas companies increased their sales
during the year.
Overall result was a net profit of
£672,290 (£687,916 in 1957) for the group
as a whole, after deducting the portion
of earnings attributable to outside share-
holders, £406,065 (£382,490), charging
depreciation, £629,530 (£549,982), and
providing for taxation, £565,198
(£590,889).
Profit for the ordinaries was £607,490,
giving a return at the rate of 16 p.c. on
ord. capital. A net £219,640 was added
to reserves from retained profits and other
sources, as interlined in the table, and
each 20s. ordinary share is now very
solidly backed, by 50s. sd. of net
tangibles on book-values at balance-date.
The recent reorganisation of the pre-
viously rather higgledy-piggledy Feltex
group seems to be paying-off. Previously
a hotchpotch of subsidiaries, sub-
subsidiaries and affiliates, the organisa-
tion is now run on rationalised lines,
over 50 subsidiaries having been swal-
lowed by the parent in the past four
years or so.
Local activities are now conducted
in seven divisions wool, felt, foot-
wear, textiles, clothing and plastics,
and the composite N.S.W. branch.
There is also an affiliate producing tufted
carpets, Chattanooga T.C. (Aust.), Pty.,
which, according to recent information,
has now been taken over by Feltex from
the former equal co.-partner, Bradford
Cotton Mills, Ltd.
A notable change in the balance-sheet
over the year was the introduction of
£1,250,000 of 8 p.c. unsecured notes, with
a currency of seven or 10 years. Bank
overdraft was reduced by £951,807 dur-
ing the same period, and Feltex now
seems to have all the working capital it
is likely to need for a while:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1956. 1957. 1958.
Paid capital .. £5,209,565 £5,299,565 £5,299,565
Reserves . . 4,580,521 5,750,081 5,968,624
Outside interests* 1.414,915 3,370,417 3,580,195
Debentures . . 1,000,000 1,000,000 911,600
Notes .... 1,250,000
Mortgages .. 2,579.634 2.531,688 2,432,995
Overdraft . . 3,012,367 2,868,939 1,917,132
Sundry creditors,
etc, ... ■ . . 1,724,650 2,382,850 2,317,553
Long-service pro-
vision .. 100,000 100.000
Tax provision. . 498,958 683,794 560,522
Final divs. .. 221,178 221,178 221,178
Suspense a/c .. 24,526 919 62,584
£20,358,314 £24,209,431 £24,621,978
Freeholds ~ 4,030,023 6,098,738 6,147.018
Plant . . .. 3,785,668 3,848,988 3,975,846
Shares.. .. 633,840 132,997 132,997
Stock . . .. 7,767,978 8.828,424 8,557,226
Debtors, etc. .. 3,710,166 4,827,421 5,385,891
Cash . . . . 2,297 2,576 4,666
Sinking fund in-
vestment .. 248,818 277,872 227,016
Intangibles .. 177,524 192.415 191,318
£20,358,314 £24,209,431 £24,621,978
* Share capital and reserves.
On the assets side, consolidated stocks
fell by only £271,198, to £8,557,226.
Australian stocks were down by £583,034,
or about 10 p.c., reflecting lower wool-
prices ; combing wools fell by about
30 p.c. and carding wools by about
40 p.c. All necessary adjustments have


Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdale” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
B. H. ALLEN
P. B. LEVY
M. R. L. DOWLING
A. P. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
16 O’Connell St., Sydney. Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. BL 5911. Tel. B 5900.
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, R. A. McINNES, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Eife Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 312761. (A Dines) . . . P.O. Box No. 1887 W
been made to inventories, and since June
30 no further write-down has been
necessary.
So far there is no indication that
results in the current financial year will
fail to match up with those of the last
and the interim has been held at the rate
of 10 p.c. Market-conditions are keep-
ing operations restricted in the wool-
processing, worsted and embroidery
plants, but sales have been maintained
elsewhere.
F. and T. of New Zealand is now
stepping-up its plans for expansion under
the stimulus of trans-Tasman import-
restrictions, and of a current share-issue
of 237,500 N.Z. 20s. ords. at ss. premium,
Feltex of Australia will be taking up its
52.9 p.c. entitlement. As a point of
interest, New Zealand Feltex earned
27.7 p.c. on ordinary capital last year.
Kauri Timber Co., Ltd.
A fter dipping into reserves last term
to the extent of £111,966, Kauri
Timber Co., Ltd., came up with a net
profit of £216,780, to clear by less than
£3OOO the amount needed to service the
pref. capital and pay 8 p.c. on the ords.
While this was a considerable improve-
ment on the previous term’s effort, when
a £15,516 loss sent the board to reserves
for the whole of the 8 p.c. payout, it was
in sharp contrast to the 51.9 p.c. earned
on the smaller ord. capital employed in
the 1955 term.
The limited amount of finance avail-
able for homebuilding and changes in
economic conditions have, of course,
contributed to the erratic course followed
by Kauri’s profits over the past eight
years, but even allowing for the peculiar
problems of the timber- and building-
trades, it would seem that the big co.
has yet to demonstrate that the rapid
expansion of the post-war period has
added significantly to the stability of
earnings.
Although “difficult” trading conditions
were experienced over most of the year
to August 31 last, sales-volume picked-up,
particularly towards the end of the term,
when it was helped along by a somewhat
brisker rate of home-building. The Tas-
manian mills, closed temporarily for part
of the preceding term, went back to
full-time production and, with the re-
organisation of certain local and overseas
marketing arrangements, a substantial
improvement in steel sales and the
£111,966 stock write-off, subsidiary losses
were reduced from £115,293 to £38,308
and confined to two subsidiaries (as
against six in 1957). The £216,780 net
profit claimed for the group as a whole
covered the pref. div. and 8.1 p.c. on
ord. capital and was written after pro-
viding £192,449 (down £6595) for tax and
£378,367 (up £56,388) for depreciation:
Kauri Timber and Subsidiaries.!
, —Dividends—To Re- Re-
Aug., Profit. Pref.Ord. Total. serves. serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1953. .170,276 5 8 85,000 85,276 816,291
Tax overprovided, £1899 ~ .. 818,190
Net addition reserves, £123,260 .. 941,450
1954. .321,872 5 8 85,000 236,872 1,178,322
Tax overprovided, £1383 .. .. 1,179,705
Net addition reserves, £26,484 .. 1,206,189
Added intangibles, £38,946 .. 1,167,243
1955. .414,273 5 8 85,000 325,274 1,492,516
Added intangibles, £141,177 .. 1,351.339
Tax underprovided, £3BO .. .. 1,350.959
Pre-acquisition loss, £3232 .. .. 1,347.727
Unexplained reduction, £159,661 .. 1,188.066
1956.. 323.211 5 10 158,350 164,861 1,352.927
Tax underprovided, £lO3l .. .. 1,351,896
Less added intangibles, £75,431 .. 1,276-,465
Surplus, revaluation freeholds,
£292,662 .. ~ .. .. 1,569,127
Pre-acquisition losses, £2168 .. 1,566,959
Share-premiums, £20,040 .. .. 1,587,001
Unexplained addition, £49,263 .. 1,636,264
Loss.
1957.. 15,516 5 8 194,327 1,426,421
Tax overprovided, £26,072 .. .. 1,452,493
Pre-acquisition profits, etc., £239,988 1,692,481
Added intangibles, £314,444 .. 1,378,037
Share-premiums, £29,407 .. 1,407,444
Unexplained additions, capital profits,
etc., £85,154 1,492,598
Transferred from stock-reserve,
£111,966 1,380,632
Profit
1958. .216,780 5 8 213,888 2,892 1,383,524
f After deducting outside shareholders’ interests.
* After deducting intangibles, £1,449,351 at
30/6/’5B.
Interlined in the above table, added in-
tangibles (mainly goodwill) and the trans-
fer from stock-reserve exceeded- pre-
acquisition profits, capital gams and a
£26,072 over - provision for tax, net
reserves falling by £42,897.
The ord. div.-rate reached 8 p.c. in
1950 and, except for a 2 p.c. bonus-div.
in 1956, has been held at that level ever
since. On the other hand, the earning-
rate on ord. capital dropped from 47.6
p.c. to 19.6 p.c. over the two years to
1953 and climbed to 51.9 p.c. over the
next two years, before slipping back to
22.2 p.c., on a much larger capital, in
1956.
Biggest of its kind in Australia, the
71-year-old Kauri group is in business as
saw-miller, timber-importer and timber-,
hardware- and steel - merchant. The
group’s main leasehold and freehold
timber - stands are in W.A., Tasmania,
Victoria, South Aust., New Zealand and
the Solomon Islands, the milling, drying
and merchandising of timber being
carried out in all Australian States and
New Zealand.
A succession of small businesses con-
cerned with timber - milling, plywood-
manufacture, hardware- and steel-
merchandising, etc., have been brought
into the Kauri group over the last dozen
years or so in pursuance of an expan-
sion-programme which has as its ulti-
mate objective “a complete coverage to
the trade, in every major centre, of the
building-industry’s requirements of tim-
ber, steel and hardware.”
To this end, the co. acquired the share-
capital of Leask Corp. Pty. early last
term (and with it, its first hardware-
outlet in N.S.W.), following-up later in
the year with the purchase of Johnston
and Freeman Pty. of Southport, Queens-
land. The transactions involved the issue,
as part-consideration, of scrip to a face-
value of £290,592.
Until the big slump in earnings in the
1957 term, an ultra-cautious div.-policy
had left a high proportion of earnings
available for reinvestment in the busi-
ness, these sizeable retentions, together
with bank-advances, £715,000 of cheap
(4 p.c.) debenture-money and £500,000
of redeemable 5 p.c. pref. capital, pro-
viding most of the funds absorbed by
the expansion-programme up to the end
of 1955.
However, after remaining stationary for
35 years, ord. capital was doubled by a
one-for-one par issue halfway through
the 1956 term, a one-for-five par issue
and combined note- and share-issues
following within 12 months. Last term
the co. raised £750,000 on 8 p.c. notes,
convertible, at noteholders’ option, into
ords. at par in 1964.
Scrip issued to former shareholders in
Johnston and Freeman and Leask Corp.
lifted ord. capital to £2,470,592, or over
three times the total at the end of the
1955 term. Annual repayments have re-
duced pref. capital to £368,000, the final
repayment falling due in 1964.
Excluding a £292,662 surplus on the
revaluation of freeholds in 1957, the net
figure against fixed assets has risen by
more than £2,000,000 over the last three
years, the Johnston and Freeman and
Leask deals being responsible for part
of the £544,349 added to book-values
last term. Most of the £750,000 of note-
money gathered-in during the year went
into book-debts (up £481,509) and stocks
(up £185,534), share - exchanges and
mortgage-loans (up £210,882) covering the
take-over transactions and capital-outlay
to leave working-capital £707,575 stronger
at £2,415,173:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1956. 1957. 1958.
Pref. .. £434,000 £401,000 £368,000
Ord. .. 1,500,000 2,180,000 2,470,592
Reserves . . 2,412,403 2,561,328 2,832,875
Outside interests 694,816 725,847 753,713
Debentures .. 715,000 715,000 715,000
Mortgages .. 5,000 193,785 404,667
Notes .. .. 630,000 1,380,000
Overdraft . . 2,910,797 3,364,361 3,303,155
Sundry creditors* 1,841,470 1,750,418 1,797,601
]nter-co. suspense 8,089
Final divs. .. 105,000 107,892 121,149
£10,626,575 £12,629,631 £14,146,752
Properties .. 1,629,280 2,328,451 2,684,193
Plant, etc. .. 1,844,341 2,043,967 2,232,574
Shares other cos. 67,961 114,213 117,420
Stocks . . 4,202,964 4,926,633 5,112,167
Debtors .. 1,563,711 1,781,899 2,263.408
Cash, etc. . . 258,842 221,737 261,503
Inter-co. suspense 77,824 26,136
Intangibles .. 1,059,476 1,134,907 1,449,351
£10,626,575 £12,629,631 £14,146,752
* Including tax-provision, etc.
Outside money plays a big part in
financing the undertaking, deferred
liabilities growing by £960,882 to
£2,499,667 last term, while, at balance-
date, the overdraft was £464,563 greater
than share-capital.
Trading results for the first two months


m
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE
& INVESTMENT CO. LIMITED
Paid-up Capital, £700,000
Assets exceed £1,350,000
TERM DEPOSITS
Bearing interest at the following rates per annum —
3 months • • • . 5%
6 months • • • SV2%
9 months • • • . 6%
12 months • • 6Va%
18 months & over 7%
INTEREST PAYMENTS: Quarterly at the
end of March, June, September, December.
We report that the latest audited Balance Sheet of
Hastings Deering Finance & investment Company
Limited, prepared at 30th June, 1958, discloses Net
Tangible Assets as follows:
Total Tangible Assets as stated in the
Audited Balance Sheet £1,365,289
LESS: Secured Liabilities .. £250,518
Unsecured Liabilities .. 325,913
576,431
NET TANGIBLE ASSETS £788,858
G. T. Hartigan & Co., Chartered Accountants (Aust.)
Complete printed details, Application Forms —
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE
& INVESTMENT CO. LIMITED
William and Crown Streets, SYDNEY
Telephone: FA 0322
And all members of Sydney Stock Exchange H t>s23
of the current term suggest a
continued recovery in earnings,
the extent of the group’s
success this year resting, to
some extent, on the level of
home-building activity. On this
score, the latest figures from
the Commonwealth Statistician
show that although the number
of new homes commenced in
the three months to December
31 last was below that of the
preceding quarter, it was 6.6
p.c. higher than the figure for
the corresponding quarter of
1957. At the same time, the
number of new homes com-
pleted in the final quarter of
1958 wag about 6 p.c. above the
1957 figure and close to 7.5
p.c. greater than completions
for the September quarter.
Still, the co. has a lot of
ground to make-up if it is to
bring earnings into line with
its size and position in the
timber-industry and, at this
stage, the £1 ords. don’t appear
greatly under-priced at par,
especially in view of the big
increases in capital over the
past few years. Net tangible
cover at August 31 last was
31s. 2d.
Buckley and Nunn, Ltd.
Satisfactory trading-results
for the half - year to
January 31 last were reported
earlier this month by the Mel-
bourne inner-city retailer,
Buckley and Nunn, Ltd., and
an unchanged 5 p.c. interim
div. will be sent out at the end
of the month. For the past
three years the final div. has
been at the rate of 10 p.c. p.a.,
to give a total distribution of
15 p.c.
A rather indifferent per-
former back in the ’thirties,
Buckley’s has moved along in
fine style since the end of the
1939-45 war and last term, for
the fifth successive year,
notched new records for earn-
ings and turnover.
Well placed, alongside
Myer’s, in Melbourne’s Bourke
Street, Buckley’s is less in-
volved in the domestic-
appliance field than some of
its competitors, the co. special-
ising in high- and medium-
quality lines, mainly within the
traditional department - store
range. The business dates back
to 1851.
The Bourke Street freehold
was revalued in 1954 and most
of the resultant surplus handed
to shareholders by means of a
one-for-one bonus-issue. At
the same time, the co. added
weight to the gift by jacking-up
the div.-rate on the old scrip
from 9 p.c. to 15 p.c. and pay-
ing 3| p.c. on the bonus-scrip,
a 12i p.c. div. going out in
the following year and a com-
fortably-covered 15 p.c. in
each of the last three terms.
Little changed in the 30 years
preceding the bonus-issue,
share-capital now stands at
£838,082, of which £688,082 is
in ss. ords. and the balance in
7 p.c. prefs.
Statistics prepared by re-
tailers’ associations in Vic-
toria and N. S. Wales show
that, on the whole, Melbourne
retailers have experienced a
more persistent growth in sales
over the last couple of years
than have their Sydney col-
leagues and, although trading
conditions remained highly
competitive, Buckley’s was able
to report a further improve-
ment in sales over the 12
months to July 31 last. The
higher turnover more than
compensated for some narrow-
ing of profit-margins and net
earnings, as claimed, rose by
£13,295 to £166,436, an over-
provision for tax in the preced-
ing term leaving the actual
gain at £6122:
, Dividends
Pref. Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinary, serves.*
£ £ p.c. £ £
’53.. 71.391 10,500 9 = 30,964 352,575
Revaluation assets,
£356,517 .. ..709,092
Reserves capitalised,
£344,041 . . .. 365,051
Overprovision taxation,
£27,886 . . . . 392,937
’54..113,566 10,500 15 = 63,074 432,929
Tax overprovided, £1673.. 434,602
’55.,142,426 10,500 12$= 86,010 480,518
Profit sale assets, £1241.. 481,769
Tax overprovided, £2138.. 483,897
’56..146,031 10,500 15 =103,212 516,216
Profit sale assets, £39 .. 516,255
Tax overprovided, £1384. . 517,639
’57-153,141 10,500 15 =103,212 557,068
Tax overprovided, £7173.. 564,241
Loss sale assets, £945 . . 563,296
’5B-166,436 10,500 15 =103,212 616,020
* After deducting book-value of
goodwill ( £60,741).
Written after providing
£104,000 for taxation (up
£5173 on the adjusted figure
for 1957) and £24,687 for
depreciation (up £3982), the
record profit covered the 7 p.c.
pref. div. and 22.6 p.c. on ord.
capital, the gradual improve-
. ment in the earning-rate hav-
ing brought it from 19.5 p.c.
in 1955 to 21.8 p.c. in 1957.
A £150,000 mortgage-loan
fell due for repayment during
the term, the bank advancing
the necessary funds along with
an extra £16,993. With other
variations, these moves reduced
the surplus of current assets
over current liabilities, etc., by
£98,251, to £249,823, and,
while finances were by no
means strained at balance-date,
a big “rebuilding and develop-
ment” project may raise the
need for further outside
assistance.
Despite the size of the rela-
tively recent bonus-issue, net
reserves were only £73,062
short of ord. capital at July
31 last:
Paid capital— 1957. 1958.
Pref £150,000 £150,000
Ord 688,052 688,082
Reserves .. 617,810 676,762
Mortgage .. 150.000
Overdraft .. 44,320 211,313
Sundry creditors,
etc 224,800 240,642
Staff fund .. 75,030 78,688
Tax provision .. 106,000 104,000
Final div. .. 68,808 68,808
£ 2,124,850 £2,218,295
Freehold, etc. .. 970,452 976,560
Plant, etc. . . 226,625 227,720
Stock . . . . 705,749 763,303
Book debts, etc. 159,554 188,126
Cash, etc. .. 1,729 1,845
Goodwill .. 60,741 60,741
£ 2,124,850 £ 2,218,295
Stock (up £57,554) rose with
turnover last term as did
creditors (up £15,842) and
book - debts (up £28,572),
increased credit-facilities also
contributing to the growth of
book-debts.
Well-located and favorably-
regarded in the fast-growing
southern capital, Buckley’s
should continue to make
steady, if unspectacular, pro-
gress in the current term, the
sharemarket expressing its con-
fidence in the co. by pricing
the scrip at an ex-div. 16s. 6d.,
to return a secure-looking
£4 10s. lid. p.c. from a 15 p.c.
distribution. Net tangible
cover at July 31 was 9s. 6d.
Thiess Holdings, Ltd.
'T'HE preferment of earth-
mover Thiess to the ranks
of the public brigade last May
was followed by a scramble for
the ss. stock which, still rising
steadily, is now quoted at
12s. 9d.
Even at this substantial
premium, which still allows a
yield of 6.5 p.c. from a 16f
p.c. div.-rate, Thiess’s scrip
isn’t necessarily overpriced.
True, earnings-yield on this
basis is only 9.4 p.c., but Thiess
will probably be finding many
a new world to conquer over
the next 20 years, and in-
crement gains won’t be lacking.
Contracting can be a chancy
horse, but Thiess seems to be


J. T. HARRY & DIXON
(Eric E. Dixon, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
1 1 3 Pitt St.,
Sydney
Telephone: BL 1987
Tel. Add.: “Harry Stock Exchange,” Sydney
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorck.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO HAROLD JACK SINCLAIR late of
Gladesville in the State of New South
Wales—TAKE NOTICE that IRIS
PATRICIA SINCLAIR has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 452 of 1959 on the
ground of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse
I f you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court Mint Building Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by the 25th day
of May 1959 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
ADRIAN TWIGG A CO., Solicitors, of
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydnev.— J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WALES OFFICE:
19 FRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 4357 (2 lines).
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
well provided with work for
the next few years, at least.
For the immediate future, it
wouldn’t surprise if Thiess
Holdings were to look around
for new money in one form
or another to finance its latest
commitments, which include a
nine-million-pound contract
for the Snowy alone. Total
value of contracts awaiting
completion is about £ll
million.
The consolidated balance-
sheet shows a theoretical
dearth of working-capital, but
the significance of this depends
on the terms of the various
contracts relating to progress-
payments : t
Thiess Holdings, Ltd. and Subsids.
1958.
Paid capital .. .. £437,870
Reserves .. .. .. 638,826
Outside interests .. .. 2,310
Unsecured notes .. .. 125,000
Unsecured loans .. .. 180,000
Mortgage . . .. .. 487,425
Overdraft .. .. .. 116,509
Creditors . . .. . . 889,825
Tax provision . . . . 146.962
Tax equalisation provision 25,000
Provision for open-cut res-
toration, etc. .. .. 23,860
Final dividend .. .. 36,489
£3,110,076
Freeholds .. .. .. 251,261
Leasehold improvements .. 104,899
Coal mining leases .... 95,900
Mine development .. .. 20,990
Plant and machinery .. 1,186,425
Shares other cos. .. .. 2,001
Stocks and work-in-progress 599,313
Debtors . . .. .. 604,181
Cash, deposits, etc. .. 104,683
Overburden removal, a/c .. 37,381
Goodwill 103,942
£3,110,076
And, of course, the Queens-
land-born concern also
operates open-cut coal-mines
at Callide (Q.) and in N. S.
Wales, as well as dealing in
heavy-machinery. The group
has a garage at Muswell brook
(N.S.W.), a Ford franchise for
the area, and undertakes the
stevedoring of colliers at
Gladstone (Q.).
In May, 1958, some fortu-
nate clients of Patrick and Co.,
stockbrokers, shared a parcel
of 450,000 ords. which the
company placed with the
public in order to qualify for
public status. Placement price
included a heavy premium,
3s. B|d. a stock-unit, plus
charges, but a speedy capital-
gain of 40 p.c. was the reward
of takers, who also collected
an 8| p.c. final.
In the three years imme-
diately preceding Thiess’s con-
version, the earning-ratio to
capital averaged 24.1 p.c. Last
year’s disclosed earnings main-
tained an unbroken, sequence.
The £105,897 net profit dis-
closed represented an earning-
rate of 24.1 p.c. and was struck
after providing £198,774 for
depreciation, and £59,500 for
taxation.
Issued capital of the con-
trolling company, Thiess Hold-
ings, Ltd., is £437,870 in ss.
stock-units." There is also
£125,000 in unsecured notes
convertible to ordinary stock
at holder’s option in 1962,
which also participate in any
interim cash- or bonus-issues.
The outside debt is very
solid in relation to share-
holders’ interests, and includes
£lBO,OOO of unsecured loans
carrying 6 p.c. repayable over
the next eight years, mortgages
of £487,425 and creditor
liabilities of £889,825. This
strengthens the feeling that a
further issue of capital wouldn't
be out of order.
Members’ funds amount to
£1,076,696, after deducting
minority interests. After de-
ducting £103,942, goodwill on
consolidation, the net tangible-
asset backing on book-values
at June 30 last was 11s. Id.
Hopkins Odium, Ltd.
HThe turnover of belting-
manufacturer, Hopkins
Odium, Ltd., has risen by
approximately 25 p.c. over the
past three years and, confident
of further increases in sales,
the board is pushing ahead with
plans for bringing plant-
capacity up to expected
demand.
To ease the task of financing
the expansion programme the
co., last June, raised £50,009
on 8 p.c. notes and last week
gave some idea of the scale of
its development plans by
announcing that it would seek
a further £lOO,OOO of note-
money (on undisclosed terms)
in “about” five months. The
existing notes give holders the
right to participate in any
share-issues occurring during
their seven-year currency.
Hopkins Odium has given
quite a good account of itself
since the scrip was first listed
(on the Melbourne ’Change) in
1952 and, although last term's
showing was well down on
that of the preceding year, the
slip appears to have been
largely due to higher rates of
depreciation and to interest-
changes on funds tied-up in
plant-extensions which have
yet to reach the revenue-
producing stage.
However, net earnings have
still to respond to an expand-
ing turnover (up 8 p.c. last
term), some lively reserve-
building and the fresh share-
capital raised in the last quarter
of the 1957 term and, while the
co. seems to be paving the way
for future progress, the full
benefits of current develop-
ments are unlikely to show-up
for a year or two yet.
Meanwhile, the 10 p.c. div.-
rate appears safe enough and
the growth of outside liabilities
suggests that shareholders may
have an opportunity to increase
their holdings when borrowed
funds are fully-utilised. In
these circumstances the 10s.
ords. are not without appeal at
155., buyers at this price
receiving a return of £6 13s. 4d.
p.c. from a 10 p.c. div. Net
tangible cover at December 31
last was 16s. 7d.
Carrying-on a business
founded in 1890, the wholly-
owned operating subsidiary,
Apex Belting Pty., turns-out
leather, rubber and rubber-
canvas transmission- and con-
veyor-belting under the well-
known Apex and Brammcr
brand names.
On formation, in 1952,
Hopkins Odium acquired the
£76,875 share-capital of Apex
in return for 400,000 10s. ords.,
of which 100,000 were later
offered to the public at par.
A one-for-four par issue in
1957 and small issues to the
staff-fund have since raised
the all ord. capital to
£260,000.
Kicking-off with an 8 p.c.
div. in 1952, the co. repeated
the performance in the follow-
ing year and has since held to
a well-covered 10 p.c. distri-
bution:—
Hopkins Odlum, Ltd.
,/ Dividends Re-
Dec., Prft. Pref. Ord. serves.
£ £ p.c. £ £
Tax overprovided, £8536 . . 719
’52..18,311 171 B*= 6,900 12,859
Tax overprovided, £10.000.. 22,859
’53..31,953 1.250 8 = 16,000 37,562
’54..52,693 582 10 = 20,000 69,673
’55..53,406 10 = 20.000 103,079
’56..37,736 19 - 20,000 120,815
’57..53.740 10 t= 22,850 151,705
’58..45,847 10 = 26,000 171,552
* For period 14/8/’52 to 31/12/’52.
Down £7893 at £45,847, net
profit for the year to December
31 last was arrived at after
allowing an extra £7295 for
depreciation (£21,919) and
providing £27,063 (down
£4791) for tax. The lower
figure represented a return of
17.6 p.c. on share-capital, as
against 23.6, 18.9, 26.7 and
24.9 p.c. back to 1954.
Sales for the first two months
of the current year are reported
to be on a par with those in
the corresponding period in
1958.
Finances looked comfortable
enough at the end of last term
but, judging from the size of
the projected note-issue, the
expansion programme is still
far from complete:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1957. 1958.
Paid capital .. £260,900
Reserves .. 151,705 171,552
Mortgage .. 100,000 95,000
Notes . . .. 50,000
Creditors . . 31,782 37,304
Staff fund . . 6,008 5,946
Tax provision .. 60,933 61,354
Final div. _.. 12,850 13,000
£620,278 £694,216
Freeholds * .. 222,376 229,243
Plant, etc. . . 156,568 194,128
Shares .. .. 1,132 1,132
Stock . . .. 161,994 166,964
Debtors . . 70,469 65,476
Cash, bonds .. 7,739 37,273
£620,278 £694,216
Last year’s £50,000 of note-
money, together with retained
earnings, easily covered the
net £44,427 put into fixed
assets, the co. finishing the term
with an extra £29,534 in cash
and working-capital £23,420
stronger at a healthy £152,049.
Stocks were a little higher at
balance-date, but book-debts
had slipped back by £4993,
while creditors were waiting for
an additional £5582. Free-
holds were revalued in 1952.


London airmail
From Herbert Holman
As his Budget on April 7 will
probably be the last
before the election, the Chan-
cellor would be less than
human if he failed to be
generous or to seek to spread
his largesse over a wide range
of interested parties. He has
already hinted at an easing of
the tax burden.
Income-tax is certainly due
for a reduction, if only on the
ground that the standard rate
has stayed unchanged for four
years. The popular forecast of
a “bob off” is, therefore, under-
standable, not only because of
the obvious progression but
also because it accords with
the Government’s bolder mood.
The reduction would cost
£250 million ; it would certainly
be stimulating to the middle
ranks of management, and
might well pay for itself by the
resultant incentive to greater
national adventure and effort.
But, despite the nation’s
tremendous recovery and new-
found strength, the Chan-
cellor’s problem, in terms of
arithmetic, is not very different
from last year. In fact, his
margin may be slightly less,
owing to delayed effects from
previous concessions and to
heavy borrowing by the
nationalised industries.
He will have to do some-
thing to boost private industry,
which is underemployed and
below capacity, and because of
the fallen commodity-prices in
the primary - producing
countries in the Common-
wealth he must honor the
promises made to aid them.
Nevertheless, the Chancellor
has particular reason for
making the impact of his
reliefs as personal as he can.
He must feel gratified that the
strength of the economy and
its potential expansion are
well able to withstand tax-
concessions, even if this means
an ordinary deficit of modest
amount.
Home Truths of H.-p.
“There are already signs that
hire-purchase credit is being
offered too freely on terms
which are too easy to be
desirable,” writes Mr. P. J.
Greaves in the National Pro-
vincial Bank Review (the bank,
incidentally, which last year
acquired a 100 per cent, interest
in his company).
In expressing this authori-
tative opinion, Mr. Greaves
makes two points: the increase
in defaults and bad debts will
check the tendency for hire-
purchase to become cheaper ;
and a measure of responsibility
rests with the banks, now that
they have entered the industry,
to see that it is conducted on
the soundest lines. He doesn’t
believe in too-easy loans, con-
tending that each transaction
should be arranged so that
at all times the hirer is in
“Look at them! They even refuse to practise their
tricks any more.”
possession of goods which have
a market-value exceeding the
hire-purchase debt on them,
and he’s not in favor of loans
for intangibles such as air pas-
sages, holidays and school-fees.
On controls, Mr. Greaves
favors the “terms of trade”
kind (a statutory minimum
down-payment and a maximum
period for paying-off the loan)
in preference to the financial
control, restricting credit or
the supply of money ; and he
affirms that had the Board of
Trade consulted the major
companies, as they should have
done, these would have advo-
cated, on at least two occasions,
more stringent restrictions than
were actually imposed. He also
considers that, as with taxation,
if the measures are too severe
or unrealistic they are inevi-
tably made ineffective by
ingenious avoidance devices.
On future developments, he
thinks that the Bank of Eng-
land, if and when credit-
restrictions re-appear, will call
for strong direct action from
the banks. Of the 1200 or more
small hire-purchase com-
panies which came into being
as a result of the Control of
Borrowing Order (limiting the
raising of new capital first to
£50,000 and then to £10,000),
some are expected to be
absorbed and some to go out
of business, but many will
survive in providing facilities
outside the range of the larger
houses.
At the end of September,
1958, the total United King-
dom hire-purchase debt was
£515 million, of which £3OO
million was owing to the
finance-houses. These bore the
whole of the £240 million loans
on motor-vehicles and of the
£29 million on industrial- and
farm-equipment. Of the £235
million owed on furniture,
hardware, radio and electrical
goods, cycles and perambu-
lators, the retailers themselves
advanced £224 million.
Dope and Deceiver
After five years entirely
devoted to Shakspeare, the
Old Vic is nothing if not
cosmopolitan. Schiller, Shak-
speare, Ibsen, Shakspeare, and
now Moliere, runs the sequence.
The change is for the better,
both for actors and audience.
Miles Malleson, who, sur-
prisingly, had never before
been associated with the Vic,
has “freely adapted” the two
plays which make up the
double bill. Moliere is notori-
ously a bad traveller. His verse
and meticulous language sound
ponderous and stilted in trans-
lation. The adapter has sedu-
lously avoided this trap. He
gives his actors plenty of
movement and forthright prose
to speak, with no attempt at
stylism. In fact, the deliberate
absence of poetry makes the
rhyming Alexandrines (by
“Sagittarius”) at the end of the
second play sound incongruous
and intrusive.
The broad impression a
pleasant, not a derogatory one
• —is of a group of extrava-
gantly-costumed English actors
enjoying themselves enor-
mously. Not, perhaps, the true
classical approach, but a
refreshing one nonetheless.
“Sganarelle,” a short play of
self-imagined dupery and com-
pound mixed identity, makes
an uproarious frolic. Mr.
Malleson himself plays the
title-role in confidential rapport
with the audience and at one
remove from the other players,
but his fooling is exhilarating.
Here is a true actor who, not
being gifted with a classical
profile, must depend wholly
upon his art.
“Tartuffe” is less rewarding,
probably because it has greater
depths than are acknowledged
in the light-hearted approach ;
particularly is this noticeable
in the parts of Tartuffe and
Orgon, to which Derek Francis
and Gerald James give no more
than a broad outline. It is
essential that Tartuffe dominate
the others for most of the
time ; a man who is at once
impostor, religious hypocrite
and confidence-trickster in-
carnate is, to say the least, a
complex character.
Noteworthy performances
are Barrie Ingham’s manly but
delicate Lelie and Rosalind
Atkinson’s furious Madame
Pernelle. A young actress new
to the Vic, Christine Finn, is
prominent and dynamic in
both plays.
A peruked quintet of
musicians (harpsichord and
wind) on the fore-stage gives
period atmosphere but, no
doubt because of the long
waits, not the most refined
performance of Lully’s music.
For “Tartuffe” they are joined,
in the stage-boxes, by Louis
XIV and his attendants, who
add novelty, decoration and
finesse to the evening.


pianoforte
By A. E. STURGES
Molly Swift turned
from the window.
“Here's Lennie.
Nearly running.
Wonder what he’s come to
crow about this time?”
Clyde looked up from his
book. “You’re too hard on
Lennie,” he said gently. “Just
because he dares admire you.
It shows his good taste.” He
smiled at her fondly. “Be-
cause he’s small doesn’t mean
he lacks feeling. Dwarfs are
especially sensitive. Not all
women are averse to them,
either. Remember the story of
the dwarf and the Queen” —~
“That’s enough! ” She
raised a restraining hand.
Clyde laughed. “Lennie’s
probably dropped in for a
chat.”
“Ever know Lennie to drop
in just for a chat? Lennie
comes when he has something
to show off. I know what’s
wrong with Lennie.”
“What?”
“He’s jealous. Because
you’re better educated, he
takes every opportunity to rub
it in that he can run rings
round you when it comes to
making money.” She looked at
him sideways. “As he can.”
Clyde said without rancor:
“Yes, he’s certainly smart.
He’d prosper where I’d starve.”
“Not so much smart as un-
scrupulous. Willing to dirty
his hands as long as the price
is right.” She looked at him
sharply. “Not that you can’t
be too much the other way.”
Before he could answer there
was a loud drumming on the
door.
Lennie Adams was not a
dwarf, but he was half-a-head
shorter than Molly and lighter
by almost a stone. In com-
pensation he held himself
straight as a post and faced
the world boldly, a bantam-
cock of a man, alert, sharp-
eyed, aggressively defensive.
As he greeted Molly his
eyes flickered appreciatively
over her ample form; then,
seeing Clyde in his chair, he
cried in a voice fit for barker
or bookie: “Reading again!
Whenever I see you you’re
reading. Get out, buy yourself
a car. I know, you can’t afford
it. You’ve got it stacked away.
Anyhow, do as I did, start
with a bomb and keep adding
a bit and trading it in till
you’ve got what you want.”
He smiled as he thought of
his own long, streamlined,
powerful, with a body of
cream-and-chrome and red
upholstery.
Clyde marked his place in
the book and looked mildly
up at Lennie. “But I don’t
hanker after a car. I’d rather
spend my money on something
I really want.” He smiled at
the frank disbelief on Lennie’s
face. “Then there’s Rex”
“What difference does Rex
make? We’ve got Anthony,
but we’ve got a car, too. Any-
way, Rex is working. He
should be able to help you.
You can’t tell me he wouldn’t
get a good screw in that
architect’s office. Have you
heard Anthony’s latest? He
wants to be a farmer. A
farmer! Had the hide to try
and tell me what farm life’s
like —me, born and bred on
one. I know what it’s like.
You’re never finished. Milk
before breakfast and lucky to
be separated by midnight.”
He took out a gold cigarette-
case, proffered it to Molly and
Clyde, jabbed a cigarette into
his mouth, flicked a gold
lighter. “ ‘Stick to clerking,’ I
told him. ‘Let the other bloke
be the mug.’” He drew
strongly on his cigarette. “Says
he doesn’t like being cooped-up
in an office.' Rather work in
the open air. Poor fool thinks
it’s all fresh air and sunshine,
forgets about the mud and
slush and frost.”
said quietly, “Well, if
he feels that way, perhaps
he’d be happier on a farm. He
could try it and”
“Talk’s cheap,” Lennie
sneered. “How’d you like to
see Rex on a farm?”
Clyde smiled at Molly, shook
his head. “I’m afraid it
wouldn’t suit Rex. He”
“There y’are! Wouldn’t suit
Rex. But all right for some-
one else’s kid. All right for
Lennie Adams’s kid.”
He lit a fresh cigarette from
his half-smoked butt. Molly
silently passed him an ashtray.
Lennie drew vigorously for a
few seconds, then the tension
suddenly left his face. He
looked at Clyde thoughtfully.
“This architect job of Rex’s.”
“Architectural draughts-
man ! ”
“All right, draughtsman.
How’d he get it?”
“His teacher put him on to
it.”
“Aha.” Lennie looked
obliquely at Molly, who
ignored him. “Friend of the
family, eh?”
“No. Actually we’ve never
met him. But he took aa
interest in Rex, thought he
had some talent in that direc-
tion.”
“H’m. What’d he have to
know to get the job?”
“Nothing, really. Has to do
a course now at the Tech.”
Lennie nodded slowly.
“Who’s he with?”
“Mason, Johns and Hooper.”
“Are there any others in
town?”
“Oh yes. At least half-a-
dozen.”
“Where’d a bloke get hold
of their names?”
“I’ll ask Rex.”
“Good.”
Lennie turned to Molly.
“Well, missus, I’ve got a sur-
prise for you. For both of
you.”
“Oh?”
“Remember you said once
how much you’d like a radio-
gram so that you could listen
to your favorite music when-
ever you liked?” He paused,
smiling.
nnwo spots of red appeared in
Molly’s cheeks. She
looked at Lennie unbelievingly,
then helplessly at Clyde.
“But Lennie,” she said, “you
haven’t . . .”
“Yes,” he cried. “I bought
one. I want you and Clyde to
come down home some night
and help me choose a few
records. It’s a beaut. Genuine
rosewood cabinet. Set me back
a hundred guineas. Bloke
tried to sting me a hundred-
and-ten, but when I told him
to the penny what commission
he was on he saw sense and
split it with me.”
Clyde saw the expression on
Molly’s face ; he spoke quickly
to attract Lennie’s attention
and so give her time to recover
“Thanks, Lennie, we’ll be glad
to.”
At that moment —as though
it were a play, with direction
to heighten the drama—there
floated into the room the
hesitant notes of a carefully
played piano. Lennie lifted
his head, listened, turned
sharply to Clyde.
“What’s that?”
Molly answered him, smiling,
her eyes hard, the smile tinged
with malice. “It’s Rex, prac-
tising.”
“Practising what?”
“The piano.”
Lennie blinked, as if step-
ping from a cellar into sun-
light. “Piano?” He stared at
Molly, at Clyde. “You’ve got
a piano?” His voice rose. “You
never said anything about buy-
ing a piano.”
Clyde said quietly: “I tried
to tell you when you were on
at me to buy a car, but”
“What do you mean, tried?
No one stopped you, did
they?”
“I was going to explain. It’s
why we couldn’t afford the
radiogram. We felt that the
piano for Rex was more im-
portant.”
Lennie looked from one to
the other as if still unable to
believe it. “I can’t make you
out. Don’t I always tell you
when 1 get something new?”
“Yes,” Molly said firmly.
Lennie looked at her sus-
piciously, then turned to Clyde.
“How much did you give for
it?”
“A hundred - and - eighty
pounds.”
“New?”
“No, secondhand.”
Lennie whistled. “Dear, ain’t
they?”
“Over three-hundred, new.”
Lennie shook his head.
“What’s it cost for lessons?”
“We’re paying eight guineas
a quarter.”
“H’m.” Lennie looked at his
watch. “See you later,” he said
LOVE’S PATH
White lamb and white dove
dwell in my heart;
radiate thy love,
lead me apart.
Into thy silence
gladly l go
to seek the presence
1 live to know.
White lamb and white dove,
no more shall l roam ;
following your love
has led me home.
Q-
Jocelyn-Ann ORTT.


abruptly, and opened the door
for himself.
Clyde and Molly looked at
each other.
“Man in a hurry,” Clyde
said.
“Man in a mood,” Molly
said.
At a long blare from a car-
horn Molly crossed to the
window.
“Lennie. Still the same car.
Must have something else to
gloat about.”
Lennie was obviously agog.
He dispensed quickly with
greetings. “Hey Clyde, what’d
you say you paid for your
piano?”
“A hundred-and-eighty.”
“Iron-framed?”
“Oh, yes.”
“Under-damped?”
Clyde’s eyebrows rose. “I
didn’t realise you were an
expert on pianos, Lennie.”
Lennie winked.
“Don’t catch Lennie Adams
throwing his money around
without knowing what he’s
getting for it.”
Molly stared at him.
“You haven’t bought a
piano?”
“That’s right. Bargain, too.
Clyde, you must have had the
money in your hand. A
hundred-and-forty, I got mine
for. A Beale.” A momentary
anxiety clouded his face.
“That’s a good make, ain’t it?
Bloke swore it was. If”
“They’re 0.k.”
“Ah.”
“But Lennie,” Molly said
slowly, feeling her way, “who's
going to play it? Are you”
Lennie cackled. “Cut it out,
missus. Can you see old Lennie
tickling the ivories? No,
Anthony’s learning. Had three
lessons already. Found a
bloke for six guineas a
quarter. Not much more than
half your bloke, Clyde.”
Molly said: “Anthony wants
to learn, does he? I gathered
once”
“Ungrateful little swine,”
Lennie said. “Reckoned he
didn’t want to. He’li thank
me later on. People respect
you if you can play something.
Kids get too much, these days,
that’s their trouble. Only
thing the old man bought me
was clothes, and not too many
of them, either.” He looked
at his watch. “I better be
getting along. Don’t forget
about the records.”
He was at the door when
the piano began. He stopped
short, listened intently, eyes
on the floor. Then he looked
up, his face creased in amaze-
ment. “That ain’t Rex?”
“Yes.”
“But he sounds as though
he’s been playing for years.”
“He has a gift for it. Of
course he practises hard, too.
Never less than two hours a
day, often”
“Two hours! Two hours?
That lazy sod of an Anthony,
about twenty minutes and he’s
gone. Won’t stick at it.
Reckons he hates it; cries,
sometimes. Two hours! Wait
till I see him.”
T ennie drove swiftly home.
-*- y Anthony was leaning over
the gate talking to a girl.
Lennie slammed the car door,
strode up to them.
The girl looked round,
smiled. “Hullo, Mr. Adams.”
She moved aside.
Lennie didn’t see her. His
eyes bored into Anthony’s, he
jerked his head. “Inside,” he
snarled. “Git inside and prac-
tise.”
“But, Dad,” Anthony pro-
tested. “I’ve just finished.”
“Git inside!” Lennie yelled.
“And don’t move from that
piano till I tell you.”
“But, Dad, I’m sick of”
“Sick! ” Lennie shouted.
“I’ll make you sick!” In sud-
den fury he grabbed Anthony’s
arm, wrenched it behind his
back, ran him into the house.
At the doorway of the lounge
he shoved him sprawling
across the floor towards the
piano. “Play!” he screamed.
“Bloody play!”
Adams, nervous but
determined, faced her hus-
band. “Listen, Lennie.”
The tone of her voice made
Lennie look up sharply. “Here,
what’ve you been up to?”
She forced herself to speak
calmly. “I took Anthony to
see Dr. West.”
Lennie sprang to his feet,
eye's flashing. “Didn’t I tell
you to leave him to me?”
“I had to take him.” She
turned away to hide her
quivering mouth. “At his
practice-time this morning he
vomited ”
„„„ ‘
“What! What’s wrong with
the snivelling little swine?
Just because”
“Dr. West said he must
53
“Eh? When I’ve j'ust
bought the piano”
“Dr. West said that if he
doesn’t stop immediately he
might have a mental break-
down.”
“Bloody doctors,” Lennie
said scornfully, but his eyes
were uneasy and his skin the
color of putty.
“Dr. West said it’s mental
torture to force anyone”
“Dr. West! Dr. West! ”
Lennie shouted. “Can’t you
say anything but Dr.-bloody-
West?”
“Dr. West would like a word
with you,” Gladys said.
“Well, look who’s here,”
* * Molly said. “First time
since Dr. West told him his for-
tune. Ah, I see the reason,
A new car. Trying to build-up
what the doctor knocked
down. We’ll be invited for a
drive, so that we can - duly
admire.”
“Let’s accept,” Clyde . said.
“According to Gladys he’s had
ths stuffing knocked right out
of him.”
Molly shrugged. “O.K. If
you can bear it I suppose I
can.”
The new car was red, with
white upholstery. Clyde and
Molly made appropriate corn-
ment, but Lennie seemed not
to notice. He drove them
suic5 uick ‘y and s “= nt| y to his f
honle - "I th an a,r , of
S' asked * em “ wait on
ron l P or . ck- n a
minutes he rejoined them, his
face working with excitement.
_ ~ . ,
Suddenly there was a burst
, of ™ uslc > a . Schubert waltz,
l™ d >. P re “ e > mechanical.
Lennie, watching their icices,
l au §hed.
“Had a brainwave. Asked
Dr. West if it’d hurt Anthony
to play a pianola. He reckoned
I was a genius to think of it.
No practice, no strain, but
music just the same.”
Molly turned swiftly to
Clyde, but too late: already
Lennie had seen Clyde’s eyes
turn up in aversion.
“What’s wrong?” he asked,
his voice low, agitated. “What’s
the matter?” taking hold of
Clyde’s sleeve, shaking it.
Clyde’s face went blank, he
shook his head. “Nothing,”
he said.
Lennie peered up at him
anxiously. “It’s all right, ain’t
it? The music’s just the
same? The bloke in the shop
reckoned the time was perfect.”
“Of course it’s all right,”
Clyde said. “Perfectly all
right,” he added, his voice
unnaturally loud,
Lennie laughed in relief.
“Ought to be!” he cried. “Set
me back enough. Hundred-
and-twenty quid, plus the
damn’ piano.”
“This Weather you cant beat a good thirst-quencher !"


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
With all the junketing at Moomba
and Ecafe (what odd words we are
getting into our language!) Sydney’s
social doings seem to be rather eclipsed
at the moment. Still, the Show will be
along soon and then we’ll see.
☆ ☆ ☆
Apropos of Ecafe (the Economic Con-
ference for Asia and the Far East) being
held at Broadbeach (Q.), Mr. R. G.
Casey is reported as having said that
when bathing with the delegates on the
beach in the morning he couldn’t tell
whether they were Communists or not.
But surely he could get an idea of how
red they were?
☆ ☆ ☆
Fashion-shows occupied a good deal
of time this week. At the Wentworth
on Wednesday they could have put up
a sign “Igi on parle Frangais,” for the
show was opened by Madame Rene Peix
in all-too-fluent French, which was then
interpreted by the compere, so that we
had it twice. Then the compere (who
referred to the Empire waistline as “the
ompeer”) introduced the mannequins,
whose hair was done in La Chatte style
as presented by the Haute Coiffure
Fran?aise. This sweeps the hair up in
two high wings at the side of the head
and gives a very catty, fascinating look,
The party was in aid of the Royal Blind
Society (Maxwell, J., president thereof,
spoke) and was organised by the Bank
of N.S.W. Women’s Auxiliary, avec les
Lions.
The clothes designed by Beril Jents
graced this party and were also shown,
with hats by Henriette Lamotte, at an
overflowing party at the Australia earlier
in the week. This time in aid of the Deaf
and Blind Children, it attracted over 500
women and the chatter was roof-raising.
Mrs. Bill White and Mrs. Ella Westwood
were among those who did a fine stint
of organising. Bettina Welch was the
comnere.
☆ ☆ ☆
From these and other operations,
fashion-notes suggest that lightweight
printed-wool will be one of the features
of the coming winter. It is not new this
season, but the patterns are elegant and
the price (375. 6d. per yard for 54in.
material) not unduly oppressive. Of
course you can pay more if you feel you
must.
Then there is the very wide belt with
its flat bow, or buckle, under the bust-
line. This is a cinch for 1959 (pun).
The seven-eighth-length coat is fea-
tured in smooth face-cloth or shaggy
mohair. It is smart, but not so useful
as the full-length coat, as that one-
eighth of skirt that shows underneath
must be absolutely right. There can be
no “cover-up” of faults with this topcoat.
The colors this season are beautiful.
There’s a wonderful copper, especially
good in hats, a glowing peacock, a subtle
red with pinkish tones and a soft green
with yellowish leanings.
Two accessory touches to note are the
use of little veils for the evening,
sprinkled with bows, flowers or rhine-
stones. They are called “whimsies,” a
term which also includes cute bows and
feathers for the hair. The other touch
is the single pearl on a chain to be worn
round a young throat (be sure it’s young),
or the large, single-stone pearl ring (be
sure it’s large).
An engagement of interest is that of
Patricia Randall, of Northbridge, to
Ronald Powell, also of Northbridge.
Patricia is the youngest daughter of
Superintendent and Mrs. H. C. Randall
and Ron the youngest son of the late
Mr. Arthur Powell and Mrs. M. Powell,
of Wagga. Her ring is a lovely solitaire
diamond. Photo by Norton Trevaire.
There was a very decorative sprinkling
of young people at the opening night of
the new Australian play “The Slaughter
of St. Teresa’s Day!’ at the Elizabethan.
Daughters Jan and Susan accompanied
Mrs. Beryl Metcalf (Wahroonga) and Dr.
and Mrs. Tom Bateman brought along
Beatrice-Anne, Edmund and Tommy.
Mrs. Bateman, by the way, is one of the
four famous mothers who are guests-
of-honor at the Blue Ribbon Tea Party
this week in aid of the N.S.W. Society
for Crippled Children. The other mothers
are Mrs. Konrads, mother of swimmers
John and lisa, Mrs. Sara (mother of the
quads), and Mrs. Anne Sykes, mother
of Sabrina.
The changing face of Sydney has very
much impressed Mrs. Helen Schoenfeld,
from Seattle, U.S.A., who is paying a
short visit to this, her home-town, for the
first time in seven years. “The whole
place seems to be being re-built” was
her reaction. She is renewing acquain-
tances with old friends, many of whom
served abroad with her in the Australian
Army Nursing Service in World War I.
Mrs. Schoenfeld is a sister of the late
Myrtle Meggy (whose name, regrettably,
was translated by a typographical error
to Maggy in a recent note in this
Letter), but she is not a musician, as was
her famous sister. Her interests have
always been in nursing and in home-life,
her daughter and her four grandchildren.
.☆ ☆ ☆
The Broad Brimmers’ Ball is to be a
new attraction for Show visitors to
Sydney. The committee, headed by
Penelope Breakell, is representative of the
bright young bachelors and spinsters of
the N.S.W. countryside, and the event
is likely to become an annual affair. It
is to be held at the Trocadero on
Tuesday, March 24. Proceeds are in aid
of the Far West Children’s Health Scheme
and the Flying Doctor Service. Tickets
can be had from Judith Kater, whose
telephone number is FM 3898.
☆ * *
Noted that Walkabout, the new book
by Elsa and Charles Chauvel which tells
of their trek round Australia, is shortly
to be published by Allens. They them-
selves are off on a new visit to Central
Australia on a scripting job for TV. After
that they hope to settle down for a little
while to a quiet life at their Castlecrag
home.
☆ ☆ ☆
One of the first-nighters at the
Elizabethan was Mrs. Charles Walton
(aviatrix Nancy Bird), whose auto-
biography, now under way, should be
of great interest for its anecdotes of air-
travel in the far west before the Flying
Doctor Service became so well known.
In those days the plane was always met
by members of the local police, and
children were given the day off from
school to look at the “air-machine.” It
was in 1934 that Nancy Bird, then just
a girl, first met the Rev. Stanley Drum-
mond, founder of the Far West Scheme,
at an air-pageant at Narromine. She had
borrowed £lOOO to buy a plane, and her
meeting with Mr. Drummond made the
Flying Doctor Service, with which the
Rev. John Flynn was then experimenting,
a practical reality.
CANBERRA
To bid “Sayonara” to their friends on
the eve of leaving Australia, the Ambas-
sador for Japan and Mrs. Tadakatsu
Suzuki gave a late-afternoon reception at
the Hotel Canberra. To receive the guests
with her husband, Suzuki wore a
white-crepe kimono richly embroidered
with colored silks and beaten - gold,
finished with an obi in black-and-gold.
Over 300 guests mingled in the courtyard.
The Suzukis and their daughter Kimi


have been very popular during their three-
and-a-half-years’ stay here.
Before taking up his new appointment
as Ambassador in Rome, Mr. Suzuki and
his family will go home to Japan and
will be present at the wedding of Crown
Prince Akihito.
☆ ☆ ☆
At an international dress - parade
arranged by a group of women headed
by Mrs. Suphamongkhon, wife of the
Ambassador for Thailand, the national
costumes of over twenty countries were
shown. Madame Lovink, wife of the
Netherlands Ambassador, opened the
parade and, as a symbol of Australia’s
most popular dress-fabric, she carried a
lively white lamb, much admired with its
collar of pink-satin ribbons.
A cocktail-frock lent by Mrs. R. G.
Casey, made entirely of wool and
delicately patterned in cinnamon-
and-beige, with the finish of silk-
taffeta, was modelled by Mrs. A.
Tange. The glamorous saris and
exquisite jewellery worn by the
Indian, Pakistani and other Asian girls
were really fascinating. Rather stealing
the limelight was the eight-year-old
daughter of the Brazilian Minister and
Senhora Borges da Fonseca, who wore
a “Carmen Miranda” costume. The little
Welsh girl with her high black hat and
the wee Scotch lassie were quaint.
Madame van Beukering and Mrs. G. van
Keulen wore the costumes of an old-
fashioned Dutch “walking-out” couple,
and Mrs. O. Insinger wore the colorful
get-up of a Spanish shepherd-lad.
Proceeds will benefit the Canberra
Boys’ Grammar School, where the parade
was held.
MELBOURNE
From all parts of Victoria members of
the Clan Campbell turned out to meet
their chieftain, the Duke of Argyll.
Climax of the visit of the Duke and
Duchess of Argyll was a ball in the St.
Kilda Town Hall, with the kilt much in
evidence. Decorations in the ballroom
included the Scottish royal standard and
clusters of multicolored balloons. Mrs.
Hugh Campbell, smart in a grey-and-
lime - patterned satin - brocade gown,
arranged the flowers on the official table ;
they repeated the colors in the Campbell
tartan. Mrs. J. A. G. Campbell, presi-
dent of the ball-committee, received the
ducal visitors. The Duchess chose a
delightful gown of rich apricot-toned
chiffon, gracefully draped. Over from
South Australia were Mr. Norman
Campbell, chief of the Caledonian
Society in Adelaide, and his wife, who
chose a gown of aqua-blue-and-silver
brocade. Many of the women wore the
Campbell tartan draped across their
gowns. Among them were Mrs. Lynda
Campbell, whose gown was of black
Chantilly-lace, and Mrs. Hugh Campbell,
who highlighted her gown of white
guipure-lace and chiffon with a knot of
Campbell-tartan ribbon on one shoulder.
During the evening guests. joined in
Scottish reels and there was an exhibi-
tion of Scottish dancing.
One of America’s foremost actresses,
Florence Dunlap, was brought here
specially to portray Googie Withers’s
mother in “Roar Like a Dove,” now at
the Comedy. A New Yorker, Florence
Dunlap is tall and graceful and wears
her clothes with great elegance. She has
played with many wellknowns of the
American stage Mary Martin, Ethel
Merman and Enzio Pinza among them.
Although she is a dramatic actress, the
shows in which she appeared with these
stars were musicals. In “Roar Like a
Dove” she’s quite at home in her part;
the mother in that comedy is an American
whose daughter is married to a Scottish
nobleman.
Mrs. R. G. Wyllie (Dr. Barbara
Russell) is just back from a short visit
to Adelaide, where she went with her
doctor husband for her brother’s wedding.
The ceremony was held at St. Peter’s
College chapel, and the bride was Sue,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. R. C. Gosse,
of Glenunga (S.A.). She wore with her
bridal - gown a gold bracelet which
originally belonged to her great-grand-
mother, the late Mrs. T. E. Barr Smith.
The gown was a copy of a Jacques Heim
model and was of pearl-cream pure-silk
taffeta. Slightly off-shoulder, the slim
bodice was piped around the neckline
and waistline and also on the pointed
wrists of the long, fitted sleeves.. The
skirt, straight in front, swept back into
immense fullness, and bows of the
material cascaded down to the long grace-
ful train. Her fingertip tulle-veil was held
with a chaplet of lily-of-the-valley.
Rosetta Angas Parsons and Jill Noblet
were bridesmaids, their rich old - gold
self-embossed silk-taffeta frocks, with
fitting bodices and short skirts, featuring
the peacock hemline. In their hair were
curvettes of taffeta, trimmed with shaded-
organza roses. The bridegroom, Dr.
David Russell, is the son of Dr. E. A. H.
Russell, of Westbourne Park (S.A.), and
the late Mrs. Russell. Best man was Dr.
John Wilson and groomsman Dr.
Graham. After the ceremony the bride’s
parents held a reception in the garden
of their home.
☆ ☆ ☆
Melbourne artists and art-lovers will
have a new place to meet —43
Dalgety Street, St. Kilda, is a new
gallery, which will be open only at week-
ends, and will, it is hoped, help stimulate
and promote contemporary Australian
art. On March 20 Miss Myra Roper
will open the first exhibition; she
will be introduced by Eric Westbrook,
Director of the National Art Gallery.
Norma Redpath, who won the £2OOO
prize for the design of a carved mural
for the new Baillieu Library at Melbourne
University, is among artists exhibiting.
Another, Erica McGilchrist, has just
completed a mural for the dining-room
of the University Women’s College. Other
exhibitors are Leonard French, Dawn
Sime, Ann Taylor (she’s a young archi-
tect, painter and sculptor) and Anita
Aarons, a sculptor from Sydney.
☆ ☆ ☆
Wesley College chapel was the setting
for the marriage of Kay Elizabeth Opie,
eldest daughter of Mrs. J. Gent, of Mt.
Lawley (W.A.), and the late Mr. H.
Opie, with Noel, youngest son of Mr.
and Mrs. S. G. Aarons, of Glenferrie
Road, Malvern. For her wedding the
bride chose a gown of white silk-
organza and Swiss guipure-lace. The skirt
of organza was. mounted on taffeta and
fell into a long graceful train. The bodice
of guipure-lace featured short sleeves and
a deep, wide neckline. Kay’s fingertip
tulle-veil was caught with a chaplet of
white rosebuds and her bouquet was of
long-stemmed white roses. In attendance
was her sister Yvonne, whose waltz-
length frock was of white silk organza,
the bodice made with a wide, square
neckline and held with two wide double
shoulder-straps. The full skirt was tucked
from waist to hem. Best man was Jack
Joel.
After the ceremony Mr. and Mrs.
Aarons, with Mrs. Gent, received the
guests at their home in Malvern at a
buffet luncheon. Mrs. Gent wore a
jacket-suit in royal-blue and emerald-
green patterned silk-taffeta, with a
matching blue cloche. Mrs. Aarons’s
attractive suit was of cognac-brown silk,
the short jacket featuring a wide sailor-
collar, and the skirt was cut on sheath
lines. Her tiny hat was a froth of black
tulle. Among the guests were the bride-
groom’s two grandmothers, Mrs. R.
Aarons and. Mrs. E. Emanuel. Other
guests were Dr. and Mrs. L. Joel, Mr.
and Mrs. John Carrodus (who were
accompanied by their daughter Suzanne),
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Hall, Mrs. D. Grigg,
Mr. and Mrs. Lionel Aarons, Mr. and
Mrs. A. G. Staley and Mr. and Mrs.
Brian Boston.


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy The History of the
Frozen Meat Trade, by Critchell
and Raymond, pub. Constable,
1912.—6803.
Does Anybody Know?
In “Banjo” Paterson’s “Waltzing
Matilda” a “tucker-bag” is rdferred
to. But the original version had
“tucker-shute.” Which is correct?
When did the present term come
into use?
Information Sought
Is it dangerous to use aluminium
kitchen-utensils for preparing food ?
This subject was much discussed
20-odd years ago, when aluminium
utensils first came into general use
in the home. It was decided that
there was no harmful effect from
the metal in the preparation of any
normal food. However, it’s best
not to allow fruits, vinegar or other
acids to remain standing in
aluminium vessels when cooking is
completed. This food should be
put into china or glass con-
tainers. Enamel may be used, but
it also has slight dangers: it must
not be chipped or cracked so that
the foundation metal is exposed.
Acids left standing long in
aluminium would probably not be
harmful to humans, but would
damage the metal itself.
* * * *
Are instruments used in manipu-
lative surgery ?
No; it is a manual treatment of
affected joints. It is often confused
with osteopathy, which is a separ-
ate science of treatment. The
medical profession as a whole still
regards manipulative surgery with
suspicion, partly because it has
often been practised by people
without medical qualifications.
Although undoubtedly harm has
been done in some cases, there are
many in which good has resulted.
Another hindrance to the progress
of manipulative treatment was that
able medical men often advocated
rest for affected joints. This “rest-
cure” often resulted in permanent
stiffness.
Some disorders that can be cured
by 'skilful manipulative surgery are
adhesions of muscles and tendons
to their sheaths; certain forms of
dislocation; the wedging of synovial
membrane between two bones. An
anaesthetic is usually administered
to ensure complete relaxation of
muscles.
• * * *
Details of the World Health
Organisation ? When did it begin
operating ?
The World Health Orgahisation,
one of the largest U.N. agencies
(membership in 1957 was 83 coun-
tries), was established as a perma-
nent body in 1948. Its function is
to assist member-States on all
health matters through its advisory
services of expert consultants and
demonstration teams. It has made
direct attacks on malaria, cholera
and tuberculosis in stricken areas.
It provides simultaneously for the
building-up of health standards in
underdeveloped areas and for the
dissemination and exchange of infor-
mation on health problems. Work
is done through six regional offices
and is co-ordinated at the organisa-
tion’s headquarters at Geneva.
Australia’s active participation is
reflected in the conference on
mental health in children, held in
Sydney in August, 1953,- and spon-
sored jointly by the Western Pacific
Regional Office of W.H.O. (of
which Australia is a member) and
the Commonwealth Government.
Australia was elected to the execu-
tive board of W.H.O. in 1957.
* * * »
Where is monazite chiefly mined
in Australia ?
This mineral, occurring mainly
in sands and gravel deposits, is
used in glass-making and for other
industrial purposes; there are large
deposits of heavy mineral sands on
and adjoining the beaches of the
coast of eastern Australia, north
and south of the Queensland-
N.S.W. border. These include both
high-grade and low-grade sands, but
it is difficult to estimate possible
reserves of monazite in Australia.
High-grade sands are worked
primarily for zircon and rutile; the
monazite content ranges from 0.2
to 0.5 per cent., and the heavy
mineral concentrates obtained from
them by tabling contain about 0.6
per cent, of monazite. Monazite
concentrates were bought and
stockpiled by the Commonwealth
Government during 1948 and 1949.
In 1953 Zircon Rutile, Ltd., began
processing monazite concentrates at
Byron Bay, N.S.W., with the inten-
tion of supplying a demand for
cerium-oxide for use as a glass-
polishing agent.
* * • «
Is it true that the “Welcome
Stranger” nugget was the largest
ever found? Who found it?
Yes, it is claimed to be. It was
found at Moliagul, nine miles north-
west of Dunolly (Vic.), on February
5, 1869, by two Cornish miners
named John Deason and Richard
Oates. The nugget was only a few
inches below the surface on a slope
leading to what was known as
Bulldog Gully. About 21in. long
and lOin. thick, the nugget was
reported by the goldfields warden
(F. K. Orme) to weigh 25200 z. and
to have had 22680 z. lOdwt. and 14
grains of smelted gold obtained
from it, not counting a number of
Scraps given away by the finders,
who unfortunately broke the
nugget into three parts before taking
it to a bank in Dunolly. Net
weight of the nugget, as given in
an official list issued by the Vic-
torian Mines Department, was
22840 z. 16dwt. and 22 grains. The
amount paid to the finders by the
bank was £9534. An obelisk com-
memorating the discovery was
erected near the spot in 1897.
The “Welcome Stranger” should
not be confused with the “Welcome
Nugget,” which was found earlier
(in 1858) at Ballarat, and which
weighed 22170 z.
* * * *
What were the circumstances of
the execution of Harry Morant in
South Africa ?
Henry Harbord Morant (1865-
1902), balladist and Bulletin con-
tributor, went to the Boer War
with the Second South African
Contingent. Later he went to
England for six months, and
returned to South Africa to become
a lieutenant in the Bushveldt
Carbineers, an irregular corps. An
officer of the Carbineers named
Hunt, with whom Morant was
associated, was shot from a Boer
farmhouse and his body mutilated.
In reprisal Morant , and other
officers of the Carbineers decided
to shoot any prisoner they cap-
tured. Morant was court-martialled
three times, and was sentenced to
death. He was executed at Pretoria
on Feb. 27, 1902. When brought
before the firing-squad he refused
to be blindfolded and said, “Shoot
straight, don’t make a mess of it.”
As The Bulletin said at the time,
“he died game.” A long article
on Morant, “Harry Morant, ‘The
Breaker,’ ” by W. E. Fitz Henry,
appeared in The Bulletin of Sept.
14, 1955.
* * * *
Biographical particulars of Harry
Stockdale, who did some exploring
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 530
Across
I—Murphy’s1—Murphy’s tan measures the forehead of Miss Gwyn. (9)
s—Colored5 —Colored inscription on the present for Kelly. (5)
8— Don’t be naughty auxiliary verbs! (6)
9 One crescent to expel one crescent of sound. (8)
12 — A lean hair-cut for a Viennese waltz pot-pourri. (9)
13 — No maelstrom is enough for Nelson. (4)
15 — Evilly smirking general call by telephone. (7)
16— Mother to call like a crow parrot. (5)
19 — Ponsford’s opening partner in
Victoria gets 31 days by direction
(5)
20 — Tea leer arching with pique. (7)
22 —Hat you put back in state. (4)
24—Retaw Billabong? (9)
26 —Jew swallowing O.M. beer
frowned upon by the excisemen.
(4-4)
28 — A little bird and I turned up
in the place where Koko sang
of the same little bird. (6)
29 — Warmer by football. (5)
30 — Consigned about some of the
cricket field by an Edward. (9)
Down
1— Confectionery from the bumble-
bug. (6-3)
2 Musician’s work-hat excludes a
Henry with my eye trouble. (9)
3 Back of Bourke at no time. (5-5)
4 Mead and ale mixed. (3)
5 To-do in which an urger alien-
ated all. (4)
6 Celebrated when Ted’s dead. (5)
7 A rumble-seat bird with a false
shirt-front. (5)
10 — Ten squared a N.S.W. Premier
with a loud metallic sound. (5)
11 — Mother has private visitors in
Bethlehem on the first Christ-
mas Day. (4)
14 —Secretly bring women, if chang-
ing color. (10)
17 — Scrut i n i s e the rigorous
squeeze. (9)
18 — Not entirely unsuccessful when
having a bout converted. (3, 6)
20 — Taxi taken by the French com-
munication. (5)
21 — Waggish feature of the Champs
d’Elysees. (4)
22 — A pilot in the theatre pro-
nouns. (5)
23 — Timber face of Jolson? (5)
25—Comply with the orders of an
apostrophised Algerian play-
wright who wrote “Noah.” (4)
27 —You and I are filled with nothing
but that with which Wednesday’s
child is filled. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 529.


in the Cambridge Gulf area in the
’eighties ?
Harry Stockdale is described in
Miller and Macartney’s Australian
Literature as “an Australian bush-
man of the 1880’s from whose
journals De Rougemont obtained
some data for his ‘adventures.’ ”
In 1884 Stockdale had explored the
region inland from the Cambridge
Gulf (W.A.), finally reaching
Katherine (N.T.). Ernest Favenc’s
Explorers of Australia describes an
odd incident on the trip. While
Stockdale was temporarily away
from the main camp, two of the
men left behind, Mulcay and
Ashton, had been committing
“irregularities,” such as hunting
with the horses instead of letting
them rest. As a result Stockdale
found his resources, of rations and
of horses, too much reduced to
continue his exploration, and so
made for the overland-telegraph
line, suffering hardship before he
reached it. The two men, inciden-
tally, under plea of sickness, asked
to be allowed to remain behind.
A search was later made for them,
but they were never found. Stock-
dale wrote a book, The Legend of
the Petrified or Marble Man (1889).
* # * *
Brief account of the Kenniff
murders ?
On March 28, 1902, Constable
George Doyle, accompanied by
Albert Christian Dahlke, manager
of Carnarvon station (Queensland),
and a blacktracker named Sam
Johnson left Upper Warrego police-
station with a warrant for the arrest
of Patrick and James Kenniff, two
of four sons of a nomadic horse-
dealer, Thomas Kenniff. According
to an account given by Johnson, the
party reached Lethbridge’s Pocket,
in the Carnarvon Ranges, on
Easter Sunday, and encountered
the three Kenniffs. After a skirmish
Johnson was sent 200yds. away to
get the handcuffs, heard some
revolver-shots, saw the Kenniffs
riding towards him, and fled. Noth-
ing further was seen of Doyle and
Dahlke. On June 23, after an
arduous man-hunt, Patrick and
James Kenniff were arrested and
charged with murder. Patrick
Kenniff was hanged. James Kenniff
was sentenced to life-imprisonment
and was released in 1914. As the
bodies of Doyle and Dahlke were
never found, all the evidence
against the Kenniffs was circum-
stantial. According to the
Australian Encyclopcedia, “there is
still a strong belief in Western
Queensland that the execution of
Patrick Kenniff was a miscarriage
of justice, and that he himself lost
his life through loyalty to another
person.”
Brief Answers
E.M.: Unless otherwise men-
tioned, records reviewed on the
“New Recordings” page are all
12in., 33 1/3 r.p.m. long-playing
disks. Stereophonic records are all
12in C.R.: It was staged at
the Tivoli Theatre in Sydney.
. ...G.S.F.: An anemometer is
an instrument for measuring the
velocity of air or other gas. Most
familiar type is the cup anemo-
meter, usually a vertical rotating
shaft geared to the recording
mechanism and carrying at its upper
end four equal horizontal rods to
which hemispherical cups are
attached... .M.F.F.: The condition
could be serious and may well war-
rant advice from a psychiatrist.
Arrangements could be made to
consult a specialist in psychiatry at
the outpatients’ department of any
of the large metropolitan hospitals.
G.T.: Copyright is infringed
by the reproduction, or identifiable
imitation, of any substantial part
of a copyright work. Such infringe-
ments are proved by a detailed
comparison of similarities, and
proof is often difficult in the case
of compilations which, of necessity,
resemble one another; in such
cases, copying may be proved from
the coincidence of trifling errors.
An infringement is committed
whether the copying has been
directly from the original or
through an ‘.ltervening copy....
8.T.: No charge for inserting
“Wants”... .E. 8.8.: Impossible to
say; some of the issues were in
use as late as 1900. Your brief
description is not enough. Suggest
you send the stamps to Mr. D.
Raymond, 3 Yarra Bay Road,
Yarra Bay, La Perouse, N.S.W.
Advisable to send them by regis-
tered post, and include a stamped,
self-addressed envelope.... .X.X.:
There are two roads which could
be referred to as the Jacobs River
Road. One, built by the Snowy
River Shire, terminates at Jacobs
River and passes through the small
village of lngebyra. The other
extends in a south-westerly direction
and is a track built by the Snowy
Mountains Authority. It leaves the
main road approximately four miles
north of lngebyra. Suitable only
for four-wheel-drive vehicles, this
track was built to gain access to
stream-flow gauging-stations, part
of the hydrological set-up of the
Snowy Mountains area... .G.M.F.:
Entrants in this year’s four-day
BP rally will leave simultaneously
from six starting-points— Sydney,
Canberra, Broken Hill, Melbourne,
Adelaide and Mount Gambier —on
the evening of March 11, and will
travel about 480 miles to Sheppar-
ton (Vic.), where they will assemble
for the 1500-mile trial-stage around
Victoria. In accordance with
International Touring Club regula-
tions, classes for vehicles will be
divided into four: up to 1000c.c.,
1001-1300c.c., 1301-2000c.c. and
over 2000c.c M.L.H.: (1) Not
sure exactly what you want to
know about grazing-permits on the
Snowy Mountains. Write N.S.W.
Lands Department, Loftus .Street,
Sydney, asking them specific ques-
tions. (2) As far as is known,
he got nowhere in his inquiries.
(3) “Don’t Erode Our Heritage,” by
Charles Meeking, appeared in B.
1 /10/ ’5B E.E.C.: (1) Use of
either “England” or “English”
depends on individual preference
and on euphony. It is not governed
by any fixed grammatical rule. To
have described the team as “the
English team” is not wrong.
Though “the Australia team” is
never used, a team from N.S.W.
is always called, in full, “the New
South Wales team” (not “the New
South Welsh team”), and Queens-
land is “the Queensland team.”
(2) The term had definitely been
used for earlier tours... .H.J.C.:
No leaflets available, but there is a
wide range of books on the breed-
ing and care of goats. Write to the
Under-Secretary, Department of
Agriculture, Brisbane, for leaflets
and lists of books, also for
addresses of goat-breeders’ societies
in your State. Lists can also be
had from Angus and Robertson,
Ltd., Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
N.S.W.
THE HOLLIDAYS
“Cant you play ANY thing without music ?”
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
A.G.W.: A small portion of
your “Widgie”:
To fill in the long evening hours
She won then a policeman named
Arthur
But she left him prone, crowned with
flowers
And a patrol picked him up after.
. There was a sparkle
early in the piece, but it fizzled-
out later 0n....T.F.: The cart-
horse lumbered 0ut....H.G.: Well,
at least your rhymings aren’t grossly
obvious P.J.: You got some-
where with the city story, although
some of the description is sketchy.
B.K.L.: Please! No more
space-men... .C.W.: It careers
around like a runaway skittle....
H.H.: Come again, in third-
person and with fewer frills....
D. : Don’t think much of your
stuttering hero... .A.L.: A spell in
the basket should cool him down
a bit G.C.: Don’t gamble on
“gambol”; there are plenty of
other equivalents. How about
“frolic”? Or even “play”?
E. As an analysis of Psalm 119
it has its moments; as prose it’s
woeful P.T.: Not a bad cat
story, but it’s hard to believe some
of the things Puss says....W.M.:
An Australian setting would possibly
resurrect it N.H.8.: Read
Hazlitt and Chesterton.


Census Changed Policy on Birth-Control
Red China’s Population
By "C. E.W."
T AST week the population of
' Australia passed the ten-
million mark. Last year the
population of Communist
China probably increased by
something like that number.
When the results of the first
real census taken in China
were released towards the end
of 1954, the surprise felt in
parts of the Western world was
shared in China. The reactions
were not. Before this, Western
estimates had put the figure at
something over 400,000,000.
Chinese Communist estimates
were below 500,000,000. The
census figures, allegedly
accurate at June 30, 1953,
showed a total population of
over 600 million, 574 million
of whom lived on the mainland.
The immediate official party-
line was that this was a good
thing: “The existence of over
600,000,000 people is the source
of wealth in our great country
and the basis of its Socialist
reconstruction,”
It was possible to explain
the difference between estimates
and the census figure by ex-
plaining that “After the libera-
tion, the rate of natural-
increase rose considerably
owing to the restoration and
development of production, the
improvement of the people’s
material conditions, and pro-
gress in medicine and hygiene.”
Similarly it was shown that the
lower rate of increase in
capitalist countries was be-
cause “capitalism, by diminish-
ing the purchasing-power of
the masses, and by weakening
them through subjection to
wretched conditions, is the
cause of increased mortality.”
These extracts are from the
“Jen-min jih-pao,” which is the
highest official newspaper
organ of the Chinese Com-
munist regime.
Regimented Press
nPHE force of statements in
this paper might perhaps
be better understood if the rela-
tionship of the press to the
Communist Government is
explained in some detail. The
full responsibility for news-
paper circulation belongs, since
1949, to the postal service, and
mail-carriers not only deliver
the newspapers but also solicit
subscriptions, collect payments
and organise newspaper-
reading groups to make sure
that the party-line gets across
to the maximum number of
people. In this organisation the
“Jen-min jih-pao” is the party
mouthpiece, the “Pravda” of
China, compulsory reading-
material for all party cadres,
and the expositor and inter-
preter of the current party-line.
But to return to the popula-
tion census. Before the census,
birth-control had been offi-
cially frowned on. “Man is the
most precious capital in the
world,” and birth-control was
denounced by the party as “a
means of killing-off the Chinese
people without shedding
blood.” Contraception was a
“reactionary” and “anti-
humanitarian” capitalist device.
This suited the orthodox
Marxist view that a large
working - population under
Socialism is thoroughly
desirable and constitutes a
guarantee of ample production
and economic progress, and
it also provided valuable pro-
paganda material. A large
population and a high rate of
increase could be argued to
prove confidence in the regime
and to boost internal morale.
It would be a cause of some
pride to be a national of a
country whose population was
a quarter of the world’s total.
However, the census results
led to second thoughts. Having
a quarter of the world’s
population might be very well,
but would it not be necessary
to command a quarter of the
world’s resources? China’s
shortages of some of the
critically important resources
could not be denied.
Party-line Change
a few months of the
’ ’ publication of the census
results the party-line on birth-
control began to change,
gradually at first, but increas-
ingly forcefully as relevant
influences became clear.
It was estimated in demo-
graphic studies (published,
again, in “Jen-min jih-pao”)
that the annual population-
increase was about 12,000,000,
and that changes would be
needed in the industrial-
development programme if the
needs for consumer-goods were
to be met. There had been
shortcomings in quality and
quantity under the first Five
Year Plan, and in order to
lessen discontent a higher pro-
portion of investment in con-
sumer-goods industries was per-
mitted in the second Five Year
Plan. This was a temporary
expedient, however: if indus-
trial progress was to be made,
there would have to be a
radical change in the approach
to birth-control.
A second feature supporting
a change of attitude was that
many leading party-members
were already practising birth-
control as a matter of personal
choice. It was easier to get on
with the work of the party
with a small family, and even
if this was never part of the
official party-line it was cer-
tainly widely accepted amongst
the elite. This meant that there
was little sustained opposition
to a change in the line at the
level of the intellectual.
Family Tradition
A third feature, and prob-
ably as important as any
of them, was the need felt by
the regime to break with the
past family tradition. Chinese
society was founded on the
unit of the large family, closely
knit, in which degrees of
relationship were observed
which are ignored in most
societies. This was rather a
“stay-at-home and repel out-
siders” philosophy, and
obviously the Communist party
could not allow it. The New
Marriage Law of 1950 was the
means of overcoming it a
prima facie duty was placed on
husband and wife “to labor for
production (and) to strive
jointly for the welfare of the
family and the building of the
new State.”
This duty gave anyone want-
ing to practise birth-control
the argument necessary to
justify his action. This, how-
ever, was not enough; the
initiative still lay with the
individual, and persons could
still have large families and
avoid (especially the women)
productive labor duties for the
State.
About Turn!
VjyiTHOUT any formal an-
nouncement of the volte
face that was intended, propa-
ganda began to appear. Early
in 1955 the party newspapers
began to carry articles explain-
ing the principles of birth-
control and contraception. In
1956 this was hotted-up by the
establishment of clinics for
advice on contraceptive
measures, and arrangements
were made to guarantee the
availability of contraceptive
devices. Shortly afterwards the
full weight of the propaganda
machine was thrown into the
field. The wheel had by now
turned the full circle, and the
activity which had previously
been a means of “killing-off the
Chinese people without
shedding blood” had now
become the approved doctrine.
Everywhere in shops, picture-
houses, clinics, hoardings, and
in the market-places, posters
appeared showing in detail how
to prevent conception, the
reasons why people should do
so and the dire results of
poverty, ignorance and hunger
that would follow if they failed
to do so.
The last link in the chain
was forged when, in 1957,
revised regulations governing
abortion and sterilisation were
published.
Overpopulation
'T'he party-line has always
A been that there has been
no real change in policy. What
happened was that conces-
sions were made to popular
demands: it is still insisted that
the system is immune from
the dangers of overpopulation,
and that the real justification
for smaller families is that they
allow the mother better health,
and both parents more time
to work and to study political
doctrines.
There is no doubt, however,
that the concern felt by sections
of the West is shared by the
leaders in China.


WILLIAM INGLIS & SON PTY. LTD.
7959 ANNUAL EASTER SALES
OF BLOODSTOCK
will be held at
NEWMARKET STABLES, RANDWICK,
as follows:
692 Thoroughbred Yearlings
TUESDAY, 31st MARCH THURSDAY, 2nd APRIL
FRIDAY, 3rd APRIL MONDAY, 6th APRIL,
commencing at 10 a.m. each day.
Brood Mares
TUESDAY, 7th APRIL, 1959.
Particulars have already been received of the following:—
On Account of Mr. F. W. THOMPSON, Widden Stud:
REDUCTION SALE, comprising 27 WELL BRED BROOD MARES,
some with foals at foot by Flying Missel (Am.)*, Delta or
Tauber* and served agaiu by Edmundo*, Flying Missel (Fr.)*,
Tauber or Achilles.
On Account of Mr. T. BAIL.LIEU, Tongy, Cassilis:
0 WELL-BRED BROOD MARES, including 4 MARES with foals at
foot by Achilles or Delta, and all served again.
On Account of LEEHOLME STUD PTY. LTD., St. Marys.
15 WELL-BRED BROOD MARES, some with foals at foot by
Boissier* or Stokes* and served by Stokes*.
Account VARIOUS OWNERS:
.‘!0 WELL-BRED BROOD MARES, many with foals at foot by
well-known sires and served again.
Stallions, Untried Stock and
Racehorses-in-training
FRIDAY, 10th APRIL, 1959.
STALLIONS: TAUBER*. OLEANDRIN*, DAMTAR (Fr.)*,
DOUGHBOY,* FIRE FLASH, LORD FORREST, etc.
50 RACEHORSES, including Tlieodrie. Canaletto. Gemstone. Birth-
day Present, Accountant, Meadow, Sun Bake, The Judge, Arson,
New Fairy, Pippie, Handy Andy. Triple Edition. Sir Dolph,
Golden Rivet. Morvi’s Pride, Ciro. Grand Magic, Prince Kooba, etc.
Also a number of UNTRIED STOCK.
WILLIAM INGLIS & SON PTY. LTD.
Bloodstock Salesmen,
28 O’Connell Street, Sydney. 8L2411 -BL 2412
SPORTING NOTIONS
At Flemington
It is not often a w.-f.-a. race
seems to offer as many chances
as the £lO,OOO Queen Eliza-
beth Stakes did on the final
day of the V.R.C. carnival.
At different stages of the
betting Prince Darius, Chicola,
Sir Blink and Bay stone had a
turn as favorite. Webster beat
them all. Indeed, only Chicola,
of the favored four, managed
a place ; she was third and the
other filly in the race, But
Beautiful, second.
Last winter Webster was an
outstanding two - year - old,
scoring a string of half-a-dozen
wins with big weights. In the
spring he did not contest the
classic events his dam,
Melorna, is not in the stud-
book —but he showed his class
with a win in the mile-and-a-
half C. B. Fisher Plate. That
was the distance of the Queen
Elizabeth Stakes, and Webster
gave a fine display of stamina
to lead practically throughout,
and still finish better than any-
thing else in the race. Owner
E. J. Gorman, who bred the
Blue Booklet gelding at his
Berrigan Stud, saw him win for
the first time —he was abroad
when Webster won his races
last year. The gelding has
earned a start in the Doncaster
and the Queen Elizabeth Stakes
in Sydney.
• • •
There was an intriguing twist
to Webster’s win. Jack Purtell
handled him perfectly to beat
But Beautiful —and Purtell had
been the filly’s regular hoop
until owner H. G. Raymond
told him during the week that
he would no longer be required
for But Beautiful.
When Wiggle won the mile
w.-f.-a. C. M. Lloyd Stakes on
the middle day of the V.R.C.
carnival she took her earnings
to £24,975 and became the
highest stake-winning filly ever
to race in Australia, beating the
previous best of £24,054 set by
True Course. Wiggle, who had
also won the Queen’s Plate on
the first day of the meeting,
completed a great carnival with
an effortless win in the A. V.
Kewney Stakes (10 furlongs)
on Saturday. Although she
carried a 141 b. penalty, she
coasted home five lengths clear
of admittedly weak opposition,
to lift her earnings to £26,375.
That total is likely to soar if
owner K. D. Godby sends the
filly to America after the
running of next Saturday’s
Alister Clark Stakes at Moonee
Valley. Godby hopes that
Wiggle will contest the 100,000-
dollars Hollywood Gold Cup
on July 11.
It was mentioned here last
week that Tudor Hill’s minor
placing in the Newmarket was
a good Doncaster pointer. An
even better one was his victory
in the mile Farewell Handicap
at Flemington. The Ottoman
horse carried 9.2, and drops to
8.11 for the Sydney mile. It
may be worth remembering that
he won the Toorak Handicap
in the spring. If it happens to
be wet m Sydney on Easter
Saturday, Tudor Hill will be
worth a piece of anybody’s
money. Good in any going, he
revels in the mud.
• • • •
Squander Lad rounded-off a
very pleasant visit to Mel-
bourne for Jack Green, when
he raced away with the
Leonard Stakes over Fleming-
ton’s straight-six course. “Dux”
of Green’s sprinting school
Gold Stakes of course took the
rich Oakleigh Plate and New-
market double. According to
Green, Squander Lad will now
be put away for the important
winter racing in Brisbane.
All three placegetters in the
£2OOO mile Gibson Carmichael
Stakes (two-year-olds) at Flem-
ington were maiden performers.
The winner, Justice, is a Judi-
cate gelding from Lynbrook.
The minor placegetters, Polo
Bay and Bosnia, are not likely
to remain maidens for long.
Polo Bay was most unlucky in
running, while Bosnia did well
from a very wide barrier.
Following Gaybao’s win in
the Woodcliff Handicap at
Caulfield on February 28
trainer O. M. Lynch expressed
doubts about the four-year-
old Bilbao gelding’s ability to
beat the Australian Cup field.
The comment was made here
that the Cup is one of the
weakest “big” races in the
calendar, and that Gaybao
would find the race no harder
to win than the Woodcliff.
Fortunately, connections of the
horse gave him his chance in
the Cup, and the gelding, per-
fectly handled by Sellwood,
won the race easily, from
Regal Wench and Sir Akron.
Chaise, who won the Blood-
horse Breeders’ Plate at
Flemington last Wednesday, is
a cosmopolitan-bred filly. She
is by the English horse Landau
(imported by V.R.C. vice-
chairman E. A. Underwood
at a “cost of £26,250) from
Ladoga, a mare formerly
owned by the great French
breeder Marcel Boussac. It
was the filly’s first win, but
she’d been placed at each of
her other three starts. Chaise
drew .20 barrier —a great dis-
advantage down the straight in
the conditions ; the grand-
stand side of the course was
lengths slower than the flat
side —but Sellwood got the
filly first out and right across
to the rails. She was never
headed.
Travel Boy, who defeated
Prince Lea easily at set
weights in the Sires’ Produce
Stakes, had a sterner battle,
with his 101 b. penalty, to down
that colt in the six-furlongs
Ascot Vale Stakes on the
middle day of the meeting. In
completing the Sires’ Produce
and Ascot Vale double, Travel
Boy did better than Tulloch at
the 1957 meeting. The cham-
pion won the Sires’, but was
beaten by Ace High in the
Ascot Vale.
* * v
Sydney Fancies
Jack Thompson piloted
four winners at Rosehill last
Saturday—and then ended the
day with a month’s suspen-
sion! It couldn’t have come
at a worse time for him —right
on the eve of the A.J.C.
autumn carnival, in which he
already had several excellent
mounts coming his way. There
are times when the standard
terms of suspension can be
disproportionately severe.
Thompson was handed his for
having caused interference to
Tamberan soon after the start
of the Golden Slipper Stakes,
which he won on Fine and
Dandy, who would have won
in any case.
It was the best Golden
Slipper field since the race was


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. 0. S. PETTERSEN, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO WILLIAM ANTHONY BRUNNER
late of Dubbo in the State of New South
Wales.— I TAKE NOTICE that ISOBEL
CONSTANCE BRUNNER has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 248 of 1959 on
the ground of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or
excuse and is praying that the Court
exercise its discretion on her behalf
under Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matri-
monial Causes Act 1899-1958 If you
wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 25th day of May 1959
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. McGUINN &
McGUINN, Solicitors, of No. 56 Church
Street, Dubbo—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO NORMAN DOWNIE late of Chats-
wood.—TAKE NOTICE that BERYL
DOWNIE has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 470 of 1959 on the grounds
of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Mint Building Macquarie Street Sydney
by the 26tli day of May 1959 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from CHARLES GRIFFITHS, Solicitor,
107-109 Elizabeth Street, Svdnejq New
South Wales.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO HAZEL MILLIE MAUDE NEWTON
late of Orange.—TAKE NOTICE that
STANLEY REGINALD NEWTON has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 261 of
1959 on the grounds of desertion for
three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Mint Building Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by the 26th day
of May 1959 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from CHARLES
GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 107-109 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
first staged two years ago. Fine
and Dandy had an easy win
from Akimbo and Morning
Star, both the winner and third
horse being trained at Rand-
wick by Harry Plant. Fine and
Dandy looks a fairly safe wager
for the £5OOO A.J.C. Sires’
Produce Stakes, to be run on
the opening day of the A.J.C.’s
autumn meeting, next Saturday
week. Maybe Travel Boy, who
won the V.R.C. Sires’ Produce
and the Ascot Vale Stakes in
Melbourne, will make a race
of it.
• • • •
Book Link’s win in the Rail-
way Quality Handicap was
full of merit. The Queens-
lander came from second-last
and ran right round the field,
finishing in the middle of the
track. Boorala was a sound
third to him, but any other
runners at Rosehill engaged in
the Doncaster appear to have
lean prospects. Melbourne
form of Gold Stakes and Lady
Cortauld has been impressive,
but at a mile Gold Stakes will
be fully tested. Still, winning
form's good form.
• • • •
Book Link’s time, 1.24.4,
was not far outside the race
record held by Carioca, one of
the best horses to race in
handicap events in years.
Gabonia, favorite for the
Rosehill sprint, had every
chance ; seven furlongs may be
a little too far for him.
Turkestan ran well enough to
suggest an early return to the
winning-list.
• • • •
Iturbi, in the Rosehill
Encourage Handicap, was sur-
prisingly much too solid for
Loquendi, one of six-favorites
in the seven races to suffer
defeat. Incidentally, the
23,000 attendance was a sharp
increase on recent S.T.C.
crowds. But then autumn’s in
the air, and the best of ’em
are on the tracks.
Racing over the Melbourne
autumn meeting and at Rose-
hill on Saturday has indicated
that this year’s Doncaster is
the most open for many sea-
sons. Rosehill performances
pointed to Book Link and
Bold Pilot, winners in the best
company, as being strong con-
tenders for the big Randwick
mile. Another of the fancied,
Skyline, was beaten a nose by
Bold Pilot in Saturday’s Raw-
son Stakes in course-record
time. Grenoble was a little
disappointing in the Rawson —
third, several lengths away.
However, he has never shown
to advantage at w.f.a., and will
"He stamped on me corn!"
be better suited by the mile
run under handicap condi-
tions.
With the Sydney Cup in
mind, On Line ran a promising
race in the Rawson Stakes, in
which he was last to the home-
turn, and then finished fourth.
He hadn’t raced at w.f.a. be-
fore, and the run is sure to
have benefited him. A five-
year-old, he is still well in the
Cup picture; there are not
many horses in the Cup with
proved staying form.
Valerius has won at his last
two starts —a Warwick Farm
Novice 11-furlongs on a hold-
ing track, and on Saturday the
S.T.C. Cup (H mile) on a fast
track, and in vastly superior
company. The form indicates
a real Sydney Cup chance.
However, the three-year-old is
first set for the A.J.C. St. Leger.
He will carry 8.10 in that
lf-mile classic, but is handi-
capped on the limit (7st.) in
the Cup two days later.
• • • •
A number of Sydney Cup
candidates followed Valerius
to the winning-post in the
S.T.C. Cup, and they’d have a
job to beat him in the two-
miler. Valerius carried 7.6,
which included 31b. over-
weight to enable J. Thompson
to take the mount. Bardshah,
fourth with 7.10, has 7.3 in the
two-miler. Also a St. Leger
prospect, he put up a good
performance on Saturday,
appearing to be cramped for
room in the final furlong or so.
He is bred to run the two
miles. Tres Chaud had 7.4, or
41b. above his Cup impost, and
the stable intends to start him
in the long race. He is related
to Shadow King, twice second
in the Melbourne Cup.
• • • •
In a very close finish in the
Rosehill Three-and-four-year-
old Handicap for fillies and
mares very few onlookers
thought Gay Satin had beaten
Wonder Way, with Hubbub
third ; but the Rosehill angle
is tricky. The well-performed
mare had worked well at Rose-
bery and the stable anticipated
success, but even owner Len
Burke was among those sur-
prised by the photo. Gay Satin
has 8.0 in the Doncaster.
On form, Crebious, easy
winner of the Rosehill Welter,
should have been at a much
shorter starting-price than 20
to 1. He had won at two of
his three prior outings, in the
first of them beating Great
Blaze, who a week later won
at Warwick Farm. Crebious
was fifth in that race, but four
days later, at Canterbury, he
won again. His next run, how-
ever (at Rosehill), was a weak-
looking effort. On Saturday
he won in effortless style. He
had not won before at nine
furlongs, and will now be
tried at a still-longer distance.
* * *
The Trots
Odds-on favorites Iwunda
and Great Cheer won their
heats of the N.S.W. Sapling
Stakes at Harold Park on
Saturday night, Great Cheer
getting there effortlessly from
Southern Power, with Shy
Songster third. Great Cheer’s
time, 2rnin. llsec., was 2fsec.
faster than Iwunda’s, and he
is certain to start favorite in
next Saturday night’s final.
Driver Jim Caffyn won last
year’s Youthful Stakes with
Eden Monaro in the Australian
record time of 2.9 j. Great
Cheer’s win was his seventh
from eight starts. In Iwunda’s


Don’t miss the
RANDWICK
EASTER
CARNIVAL
SATURDAY MARCH 28
Doncaster St. Leger
-jc Sires Produce Stakes
MONDAY MARCH 30
Sydney Cup
WEDNESDAY APRIL 1
All-aged Stakes
SATURDAY APRIL 4
Queen Elizabeth Stakes
Adrian Knox Stakes
heat Silver Nook was very
badly away and lost all chance.
Six-to-four favorite Brusque
scored a lucky win in the
Harold Park Handicap.
Brusque led throughout, but,
coming from behind with a
strong last-lap run, Flingo was
level halfway down the
straight when he missed his
gait for a few strides, finishing
a good second. Well-supported
Bangaroo Lass broke badly at
the start and was never a
possibility. Stewards later
decided to refuse his nomina-
tion for future meetings at the
Park.
The final winning-favorite,
General Scott, had been barred
three times for barrier-breaking
at Harold Park. On Saturday
he gave a stylish display to win
the Melbourne Handicap from
Sweet Oro and Blue Goose in
the fastest 11| furlongs of the
night (3.9 f).
• * •
Touring Cricketers
The Australian cricket
selectors stuck to the “old
hands” in their team of 15
to tour India and Pakistan
next November. The only player
in the side not to have played in
the recent Tests is S.A. opening-bat
Gavin Stevens. O’Neill and Rorke,
of course, are not exactly “old
hands,” nor are one or two others,
like Meckiff and Kline.
Some of the established players
(Benaud, Harvey, McDonald,
Grout, Davidson) were automatic
selections; in fact, the team could
not be “Australia” without them.
But some of the others must be
considered rather lucky to have got
another trip, particularly when it
means that young batsmen like
Marks and Shaw are left at home.
Burge and Favell, both successful
punishing Shield batsmen, have not
quite made the higher grade despite
enough chances. Mackay, though
successful in South Africa, did
nothing special with bat or ball
against England; and he is not
an attractive stroke-maker. S.A.
’keeper Jarman, younger and look-
ing a Test ’keeper of the future,
kept well in S’Africa, and perhaps
should have got the job as Grout's
understudy. Maddocks, of course,
did all right behind the sticks in
Shield cricket this season, and made
a lot of runs.
“Sentiment” perhaps had some-
thing to do with Lindwall’s selec-
tion. By his efforts in the fourth
and fifth Tests against England
Lindwall proved that he was good
enough to be selected for the tour;
but whether he should have been
is another matter. From the point
of view of preparation for the more
important tour of England in 1961,
surely a younger “fastie,” such as
W.A.’s Hoare, should have got the
trip.
Five men in the side (Lindwall,
O’Neill, Rorke, Stevens and Mad-
docks) did not tour South Africa
in 1957-58. The five who went' to
S’Africa and who have missed out
are Craig, Burke, Simpson, Gaunt
and Jarman. Two who played in
Tests against England (Simpson and
Slater) have missed. W.A. is the
only State without a representative.
The team, however, should be
too strong for the opposition, with
Pakistan likely to be the tougher
nut.
In their recently concluded series,
played in India, the West Indies
defeated India 3-0, with two Tests
drawn. Pakistan beat West Indies
in the first two of a three-Test series.
The 1956 Australians, on their way
home from England, were beaten
by Pakistan in the one Test played,
and beat India 2-0 in a three-Test
series, the second Test being drawn.
* V- -r
“K.R.”; In a day of low
scoring on rain - affected
wickets in every game, with
several teams being dismissed
for less than 50, Labor Day
in Melbourne saw perhaps the
most remarkable bowling-
figures ’ ever turned-in in
district-cricket in Australia —
North Melbourne opening-
bowler Geoff Jinkins’s 8-0 in
Prahran’s second-innings score
of 13. (Nine of ’em got ducks,
one batsman 10 and one 3.)
Jinkins was in line for the hat-
trick when he ran out of
victims. It was an interesting
game all round. Prahran, out
for 53 in its first innings
(Jinkins 6-25), dismissed North
for 52, and appeared to have
won the game —until Jinkins
started! Needing only 15,
North lost four wickets in
getting them.
“Veryl”: Some bowling-
figures from England in recent
years, comparable to Jinkins’s:
Laker, 8-2 for England v. The
Rest in 1950 ; Shackleton, 8-4
for Hampshire v. Somerset in
1955 ; Palmer, 8-7 for Leicester
v. Surrey in 1955. Palmer,
Leicester skipper, put himself
on for only one over with the
idea of switching the bowlers
operating, but kept himself on
when he “struck a patch.”
“Regel”: When the 1902
Australians came off the field
after winning the exciting
fourth Test by a mere three
runs some of them were not
for some time their usual
phlegmatic selves. Monty
Noble used to relate in
after years how, when they
were packing, wicketkeeper Jim
Kelly kept complaining that
someone had souvenired his
gloves. After a search Clem
Hill pointed out that they were
still on Big Jim’s hands.
m * ♦
Dragnet
At West Melbourne, former
Australian lightweight champion
George Bracken clearly outpointed
Israeli lightweight David Oved, who
had won his three earlier fights
in Australia. In Brisbane Herb
Elliott won the Queensland Cen-
tenary mile in 3.58.9, second-fastest
time for the mile recorded in
Australia; Lincoln was second.
Veteran rifleman Percy Pavey won
the Victorian Queen’s Prize, his
fifth winning of the Victorian shoot
and his 15th Queen’s or King’s.
The marathon two-stage Ampol
surfboat row, from Bondi to North
Wollongong (where a big surf-
carnival was then held), was won
by the Cronulla 4>oat in llhrs.
38min., 21min. ahead of Long Reef;
only 12 of the 34 starters finished.
At Leeds (Eng.), at Rugb'y League,
England annihilated France 50-15.
(An Australian Rugby League team
goes to England later this year.)
* * *
At Sydney Sportsground, on
the first day of the N.S.W.
women’s athletic champion-
ships, with the Trans-Tasman
Cup between N.Z. and N.S.W.
being competed for at the same
time, Betty Cuthbert won the
100yds., with world-record-holder
Marlene Mathews second —Betty
Cuthbert’s fourth successive Win this
season over Miss Mathews. The
44Uyds. was won by New Zealander
Marise Chamberlain, in 55.6 sec.,
equalling the world record held
jointly by Betty Cuthbert and Molly
Hiscox, of England. Miss Cham-
berlain had earlier held the world-
record for the distance (56.15ec.,
set on March 8, 1958). N.Z.’s Val
Sloper, who won the shot-put at
last year’s Empire Games, won the
discus-throw, and N.S.W. girl
Michele Mason, who won the high-
jump at Cardiff, won the high-jump
at sft. Bin., equalling her own
Australian resident record.
“Sundowner”: Reg Hickey,
probably Geelong’s greatest
all - round footballer he
played 245 games with the Cats
from 1926 to 1940, a number
of games equalled by few
V.F.L. players has been
appointed coach of Geelong for
his 11th successive season.
After he took-over in 1949
Geelong wasn’t out of the final
four until 1954, winning the
pennant in 1951 and 1952. Last
year Geelong finished on the
bottom of the ladder.
* * *
“A.L.D.”: Granville, Aus-
tralia’s oldest Soccer club, is
to play in Sydney’s Federa-
tion Soccer competition this
season, the club having decided
to leave the Association. Gran-
ville was formed in 1885, and
has one of the biggest junior
Soccer districts in Sydney. The
club has a 10-years’ lease of
its home-ground, Macarthur
Park. Its decision leaves the
N.S.W. Soccer Association
virtually without a top-class
ground in Sydney.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
NYASALAND RIOTS
TThree press comments on the
A outbreak of anti-white
riots in Nyasaland.
"New York Times”: “In
Nyasaland a policy imposed by
ihe British Colonial Office in
1953 against the wishes of an
overwhelming majority of the
Africans who were politically
interested seems now to be
backfiring. At that time the
British forced the protectorate
to become part of a Central
African Federation formed of
Southern Rhodesia, Northern
Rhodesia and Nyasaland.
Southern Rhodesia is a self-
governing colony whose
quarter of a million whites not
only dominate its 4,500,000
blacks but also control the
whole federation. Nyasaland is
99.6 per cent, black, yet the
Federal Legislature in Salis-
bury has 29 white members and
only six Africans.
“In present circumstances,
with black nationalism playing
so powerful a role in African
affairs, such subjection had to
lead to trouble. Racial dis-
crimination in the two
Rhodesias happens to be ex-
ceptionally bad, even for the
southern half of Africa. Nyasa-
land itself is a beautiful and
fertile country, but so heavily
overpopulated that the people
are poor. However, the rela-
tively few whites own great
tracts of land. To outside
observers it would' seem in-
evitable that a nationalist
movement would assert itself.”
* * *
London ‘‘New Statesman ” :
“Before federation was first
mooted in 1951, race relations
in this small country were
among the happiest in the con-
tinent. They may have been
based on a kind of feudalism,
but they were also marked by
African trust, particularly
towards the missionaries. The
Africans believed that the
whites were gradually provid-
ing them with training to
manage their own affairs. To-
day those same whites are
barricading their doors and
sleeping with revolvers at their
side.
“The Nyasas have never
wavered in their determina-
tion to prevent what they
see as the extension of
Southern Rhodesian racialism
to their country. Now they
are desperate, and the Colonial
Office administration in Nyasa-
land has only exacerbated their
feelings by its long delay in
producing Constitutional
reforms.
“If the situation is to be
saved from complete calamity
the new Constitution must be
published quickly and it must
convince the Africans that they
are being offered full and
genuine opportunity to redress
their grievances through Con-
stitutional channels.”
* * *
London “ Spectator ” : “It is
absurd to ascribe the sporadic
London “Daily Mail."
ANOTHER LEAK.
rioting, the passive and active
resistance to authority that
has been going on in the
country for months, to the
subversive agitation of a few
‘irresponsible’ Congress poli-
ticians ruthlessly stirring up a
contented if ignorant African
populace for the sake of their
own personal aggrandisement.
This is the European’s stock
explanation of any African
movement he does not want to
understand. But in Nyasaland,
Congress is probably more
fully supported by the vast
majority of Africans than in
any other African country,
and the articulate leaders of
Congress express the deep dis-
content and resentment of the
whole population.
“Dr. Hastings Banda, who
returned only a few months
ago from medical practice in
London to replace the divided,
faltering and not always wholly
sincere Congress leadership of
recent years, is a colorful
character, given to violent and
sometimes injudicious utter-
ances ; but he has risen so
rapidly to pre-eminent influence
because he can express what
Africans are feeling, not be-
cause he puts words into their
mouths.”
• • • •
The same: “Unless the
[Central African] Federal
Government’s racial outlook
can alter to an extent that
seems at present inconceivable,
Nyasaland within the federa-
tion will continue to be a
centre of ever - increasing
violence, to its own detriment,
to the detriment of the federa-
tion and to the detriment of
Britain’s position in Africa and
the world. The promised new
Constitution has not yet
appeared, and, if we may
judge from the precedent of
Northern Rhodesia, it is likely
to be so bedevilled by white
racialism emanating from Salis-
bury as to be unacceptable to
black, white or brown.
“Vague suggestions of a few
African Ministers, even a black
Prime Minister one day, are
too far in the future to appease
the African demand for inde-
pendence of Salisbury now.
Confidence in the Colonial
Office, and the white man
generally, has been too much
shaken by the betrayal of the
past six years for promises of
increased protection from
London to have any meaning.”
The Wider View
London “Financial Times”
sees the Nyasaland situation as
“symptomatic of the political
turmoil into which a large
part of Africa has now been
plunged”:
“It is probably no co-
incidence that Dr. Banda’s
approach has become notice-
ably more unrestrained since
he returned from the All-
African People’s Conference at
Accra. This conference suc-
ceeded in stirring up violently
the emotions created through-
out Africa by the pressure of
Egypt from the north and
Ghana from the west. Though
it produced little directly but
a crop of violently enthusiastic
speeches, its theme was the
achievement of a free and
united Africa.
“The notion of a united
Africa is an understandable
means of' co-ordinating the
developments which are taking
place in so many territories at
present: it is a good rallying-
cry for the moment, but it will
bear very little examination.
There is the obvious rivalry for
titular leadership between
Nkrumah and Nasser, one
stretching out towards Central
Africa, the other down to the
east and across the Moslem
north meeting in Nigeria,
whose leaders have now gained
sufficient experience of the
practical problems involved in
preserving their own unity after
independence to eschew the
violent enthusiasm of their less
experienced colleagues.
“The Nigerian case, indeed,
throws up a difficulty which


many of the emerging African
nations must solve the
meaninglessness of national
boundaries in a tribal society.
In West Africa federation is
the rage, but nobody is certain
with whom to federate. The
Ghanaian link with Guinea has
remained noticeably loose ;
the formation of Mali by four
newly autonomous French
territories has killed the idea
of linking Senegal with Guinea,
Gambia and Sierra Leone, but
is itself indecisive until
Dahomey has made up its
mind ; a slight election swing
has made it uncertain whether
the Southern Cameroons will
move towards Nigeria or the
French Cameroons.
“This uncertainty about who
to choose as a partner —which
is as strong in East as in West
Africa—is partly the result of
the superimposition of Western
ideas on societies which are
still tribal. Inside individual
territories, too, there is an
opposition between the
authority of the tribe and its
leader and that of the State
and the new-style personal
politician. There is little
doubt that the new style is
catching on fast, and that a
desire to break through the
tangled skeins of tribal
authority is responsible for
much of the apparent violence
of many (though not all)
emergent African leaders.
“The phase will pass sooner
or later no politician can
thrive for long on promises
completely unfulfilled —but at
present the political atmo-
sphere in much of Africa is too
excited for calculations of self-
interest to be important. Mean-
while, a division is beginning
to appear. On one side there
are the territories which are
already independent or can
count on independence in the
early future and whose poli-
ticians are beginning to grapple
with their own practical
problems. On the other side
there are the Portuguese
colonies, still proceeding slowly
their own way, and South
Africa, firmly wedded to the
idea of permanent white
supremacy.
“It is halfway between that
the trouble lies at present, in
countries which see no im-
mediate prospect of inde-
pendence or in which the black
population sees no early chance
of matching its numbers with
votes ; and the Federation of
Rhodesia and Nyasaland, if
only because of its position,
raises the most difficult
problem of all. Dr. Banda is
doing nothing to solve it: the
secession of Nyasaland, as his
colleague in the Northern
Rhodesian Congress has force-
fully pointed out, would in
itself only weaken the position
of the black population in the
Rhodesias. But there is no
doubt that the attitudes of
white and black are becoming
more extreme, particularly
since the swing to the Right in
the [Central African] Federal
Parliament. The Government
has some difficult decisions to
make before next year, when
discussions on the future of
the Federation begin.”
Soviet Sport
■reporting that “in Russia a
party and Government
decree has now abolished from
March 1 the State-directed
physical-culture and sports
committee,” which is “to be
replaced by a semi-independent
union of sports societies and
organisations,” “Manchester
Guardian” remarks:
“The old committee’s dis-
grace was foreshadowed
months ago when one of its
idols, Edward Streltsov (the
national football centre-
forward) was sentenced to 12
years’ imprisonment after de-
generating in three years from
a ‘pure honest boy’ to a
‘hooligan and ravisher.’ This
blow followed Russia's failure
in the World Cup Association
tournament. Defeat in athletics
by.both the United States and
Western Germany and an
Association rout by England
probably settled the com-
mittee’s fate.
“The committee and its
clubs, trainers, and selectors
have all been attacked in
Russian newspapers for relying
too much on established
players, forgetting about the
younger generation and
enticing ‘stars’ into their teams
with offers of motor-cars, flats,
and bonuses. Such charges are
familiar enough in the capi-
talist world, too, but British
governing bodies, for example,
have less need to tremble at
the anger of British newspapers
than have Russian committee-
men at the displeasure of
‘Pravda’ and its colleagues.
“The new decree lays great
emphasis on the need for mass
sport. It is true that a high
general standard in any sport
tends to produce a good inter-
national team, but as even
those in the 50-70 age-group
are involved in the new plans
one may be forgiven for think-
ing that the relation of physical
fitness to industrial output in
the nation is being borne in
Faith in the
Future
A motorist driving up and down the
countryside these days must be struck by the
number of modern motels that have been built in
the service of the wayfarer.
They are welcome additions to Australian
living. And their forerunners in our history go
back long past the motor age.
Cobb and Co., whose horse coaches carried
generations of Australians, were providing meals
and over-night, beds to passengers at post-changes
on their longer journeys between the coast
and the outback.
Freeman Cobb was an American, as were his
three companions in the transport organisation he
founded here in 1853. From California they
imported the Western American type of
leather-braced coaches to stand the jolts that steel
springs would not take on rough bush roads.
And when the originals retired from the
undertaking it was another American, James
Rutherford, who headed the group in Australia
to carry on the pioneering work.
Most of us think of Cobb and Co. as carriers
of mail and passengers. But at the peak of their
years, between 1853 and 1924, when their last
coach came off the run between Yuleba and Surat
in Queensland, they were active in other ways.
They acquired large sheep and cattle
properties in the three eastern States; contracted
in railway construction; engaged in a timber trade
with India; had a link, through James Rutherford,
with the development of the iron industry
at Lithgow.
This is worth recalling now, when the
opportunities for British and American investment
in Australia are so much in discussion.
The decade which saw the beginnings of Cobb
and Co. brought the Australian population up
past one million—after it had been almost trebled
in those ten years by the discovery of gold.
But Cobb, and others like him since, had
Faith in the Future of our country. And how
surely was their confidence justified!.
H. Hastings deering


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. .. .months’ subscription to "The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ....... . . . . ... ... ...
ADDRESS . . . . . . . ..... . . . .
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; J year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques ,
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
mind. Equally it is hard to
believe that the decree heralds
a closer approach to the Inter-
national Olympic Committee’s
amateur outlook on sport. The
new Russian sports union will
have to justify itself by suc-
cess, and, if necessary, the new
idols will be paid just as much
as the old.”
China and the West
A London “Economist”
article describes China as
“a restless, dissatisfied and
aspiring Power.” but “not yet
a great and independent one”:.
“The tensions and inhibitions
that China now causes in inter-
national politics belong to the
existing struggle between the
Soviet Union and the United
States, in which Chinese policy
cannot pretend to be decisive.
China can pull the two world
Powers into the hostile postures
of a major crisis, as it did in
August [1958] by reopening
the bombardment of Quemoy.
But it is not strong enough to
ensure that these crises can be
exploited to the full Chinese
advantage or even conducted
on the Communist side as
China itself wishes.
“Despite the Quemoy emerg-
ency, China does not yet seem
to have wormed nuclear
weapons out of Mr. Khrush-
chev ; Mr. Khrushchev prefers
to speak of a zone free of
nuclear weapons in the eastern
Pacific. Nor has Chinese
pressure evidently reduced the
United States political commit-
ment to General Chiang Kai-
shek on Formosa. China can
no more act alone in the world
than Britain, the Power it is
already specifically trying to
overtake in heavy industrial
capacity. Both have weighty
claims to allied consultation ;
both have independent failures
to record.
“But the China of 650
million is an emergent Power,
developing at an unparalleled
London “Everting Standard.”
“GENEVA SPIRIT—WHERE ARE YOU ... ?”
pace. In a decade it may have
the strength to prosecute its
own policy within the existing
international system. In
another two, depending on
United States and Soviet pro-
gress, it may be able to upset
the system altogether.
“Since the consummation of
its Communist revolution in
1949, China has fought a
United Nations coalition to a
standstill in Korea. Its revolu-
tionary pressure has been felt
increasingly throughout South-
east Asia, compelling the
creation of a nebulous Western-
sponsored defence-system under
the Manila treaty and more
purposeful Western action
locally, principally in hasten-
tng independence for Malaya.
It has, in two major crises,
squared-up to the United States
aero-naval strength m the
Formosa Strait. The Chinese
strategists have not convinced
Asian opinion that the United
States is a paper tiger; yet
they have seemed to defy
American power and get away
WI ”U. , ,
Chma even the backward
China of the nineteen-fifties,
has presented the cold-war
world with a more determined
and sustained challenge to its
immobility than the two great
Powers’ own confrontations
over Germany and the Middle
East have so far done. But
China has not done this
entirely by, or for, itself. Its
strength still depends on Soviet
assistance.
“Its rulers’ differences with
the Soviet leadership have been
more than comradely tiffs, and
with each year that passes the
quarrels are likely to deepen
into distrust; yet within the
present international system
their significance is minimal.
It did not need Mr. Chou En«
lai’s address to the 21st Soviet
party congress to show the
West that if Sino-Soviet rela-
tions have their nuances they
are based on a self-evident
solidarity. This has now
been emphasised by the
new economic agreement in-
creasing Soviet aid to Chinese
industry for the next eight
years.
“China’s major preoccupa-
tion is to hoist itself, in the
shortest time, into the seats of
the mighty; to possess the heavy
industry, the nuclear potential
and the military strength of a
world Power. To do this it
requires, simply and urgently,
the cold war to continue, the
tensions to persist, the crises to
drag on, so that the Soviet
Union will instinctively be
aware of China, instinctively
need it and answer its demands
on Soviet capital and produc-
tion.
“It is conceivable that,
pushed to the wall, China
would even prefer the disaster
of a general nuclear war, which
part of its vast population could
hope to survive, to the ending
of the present East-West


picture taking . .
and enjoy fun over again
KEEP YOUR CAMERA LOADED WITH
c
MXSMK
Kodak Film —the best film
for your camera. * In all
black-and-white sizes; in
colour sizes to fit 35mm.,
828; Bmm. and 16mm.
cameras.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES
KODAK DEALERS EVERYWHERE
rivalry. It would, its leaders
reckon, have less to lose from
the catastrophe than any other
State.
“For Peking as for the
present Governments in Paris
and Bonn—the most dangerous
diplomatic development of all
would be the start of straight
horse-trading between the
United States and the Soviet
Union, after which Mr.
Khrushchev could really go in
for consumer-goods. If there
is a long-term plan in Peking
it is to delay the unlikely
rapprochement between its
great ally and enemy until
Chinese power is sufficient to
stand up to both.”
But before it can do this it
has to make much more pro-
gress in industry, agriculture
and social reorganisation. For
the present its “first concern is
at home, and its foreign policy,
particularly the pressure it
exerts against Formosa and in
South-east Asia, may be ex-
pected to reflect its internal
strains and difficulties to
which Tibetan nationalism still
adds its problems. China
believes that Formosa must
eventually be pulled into its
orbit, as the island has re-
sponded to the mainland’s
attraction in the past.
“In the meantime Peking will
take advantage of the exposed
American position and of
Western uncertainties whenever
it sees fit. Its commercial
influence in southern Asia is
now strictly limited, but it will
grow. It sees the overseas
Chinese communities as a
future trump-card in the
politics of Malaya and Siam.
Its present quest for world
status has led it to claim con-
sideration in discussing Ger-
many’s future (China is asso-
ciated with the Warsaw Pact),
and it already has trade ties
with Middle East countries like
Egypt, Iraq and Yemen. Its
stake in the cold war may have
prompted the recognition of
the Algerian Government-in-
exile, which the Soviet Union
has refused to do.
“These signs of independence
will grow. The choice before
the West may be whether it
should try, within the strict
limits it has for manoeuvre, to
reduce China’s diplomatic
reliance on Moscow by such
steps as admitting it to the
United Nations, or whether its
best course, in the long-run, is
to attempt some modus vivendi
with Mr. Khrushchev whereby
the Soviet interest in restrain-
ing the Chinese mammoth is
reinforced. The choice is still
theoretical and hypothetical.
Yet, as China comes to stand
on its own feet, the moment of
decision draws nearer.”
Britain's Trade
Rivals
From London “Daily Ex-
press” :
“Australia is a land of
immense and growing oppor-
tunities. She is a staunch
champion of Empire trade. Yet
at the Trade Fair at Melbourne
the biggest exhibitors are
Japan, Germany, Italy, and
China —in that order.
“Do British businessmen
believe that the Australian
market can be taken for
granted?
“A woeful and misguided
notion! And one that is
clearly not shared by the Japs,
the Germans, the Italians and
the Chinese.”
New Test for Israel
13 umania’s sudden decision
to allow its Jews to
migrate to Israel is seen by
New York “Herald Tribune”
as “one of the most significant
and symbolic events of Israel's
recent history”:
“It demonstrates dramati-
cally that the new State’s role
as a haven for the persecuted
and the unwanted far outlives
the Hitler era which helped to
bring it into being. It shows,
too, how the newcomers
suddenly released from behind
the Iron Curtain are, just like
the earlier Zionists, carving
out new lives in a new land —
in some cases, indeed, almost
literally creating the land in
which to live.
“In the town of Kiryat
Gath, which did not exist five
years ago, 1300 Rumanian
Jews now Israelis have
found homes, hope and happi-
ness.
“All of those coming to
Israel from Rumania are
coming to work, and the kind
of employment some find is
illustrative of the procedures
by which the new State expects
to make room for its new
citizens. Kiryat Gath lies on
the northern edge of the Negev,
the great desert-like area which
Israel is reclaiming in the hope
that it will one day provide
habitation for hundreds of
thousands of people. Some of
the immigrants from Rumania
have found jobs in the re-
forestation projects now going
on in the Negev, thus bringing
to life the soil upon which they
or their descendants will some
day live. Others will work
toward similar ends in new
cotton, peanut and sugar-beet
industries which will be estab-
lished both to provide jobs in
the area and to assist the
country’s economy.
“Inevitably the entry of new
immigrants into Israel provokes
outcries from the Arab Govern-
ments, which contend that a
rapidly growing Israeli popu-
lation is an inevitable prelude
to attempts at expansion. But
Israel’s efforts are bent toward
making wasteland within its
own borders habitable. And
its present population density
of 250 per square-mile leaves
considerable room for absorp-
tion. New York State has a
population density of 309 per
square-mile, and New Jersey,
which is nearer to Israel in size,
has 642 per square-mile. What
the new immigrants from
Rumania represent is not a
menace to the Arabs but a
challenge to Israel itself, which
must undergo sacrifice and
shortages to meet the needs of
the penniless newcomers. It is
a challenge that has been
triumphantly met before, and
it is safe to say that it will be
answered once again.”
To which Chicago “Daily
News” adds:
“What the Arabs fear even
more is that Soviet Russia may
decide to permit emigration of
the estimated 3,500,000 Jews
still living there. The Reds
could, if they chose, use the
threat of sanctioning—or pro-
moting—this migration as a
club to threaten the Arabs.
“Such a migration would
also pose a serious problem for
Israel. It cannot and will not
close its doors against any co-
religionists, but assimilating
such numbers would strain its
already precarious economy.
“With a million displaced
Arabs still demanding readmis-
sion to Israel, however scant
their hope, the outlook for
increased tension is clear. Still
another question is the extent
to which Iron Curtain migrants
would retain any acceptance of
the Communist system under
which they lived.”
Various Voices
Lord Hailsham: “If we
[Great Britain] had had
nationalisation in the eighteen-
forties we should still be trying
to operate a nationalised stage-
coach service.”
Milton Berle (American TV-
star): “Inflation? —that means
your money won’t buy as much
as it would have during the
depression when you didn’t
have any.”
Admiral A. A. Burke ( U.S .
Chief of Naval Operations):
“If Russia wants to decrease
tensions, the first thing she
should know, and I think she
does, is that she has got to
create confidence in the rest of
the world. I think she is trying
to. She is trying to put up a
false front to create a situation
in which we have confidence in
her which is not deserved. We
have to watch that.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Teaching the Bright Child
Intelligence tests showed that
John Penfold Knee, aged six,
had the mentality of a boy of
12. There was no place in
Victorian schools for such a
boy, so his parents, realising
that he could be a near-genius,
took him to England 18
months ago so that he could
attend a school catering for
this type of boy.
There is something wrong
with an education-system that
finds the extremely intelligent
child an embarrassment. The
individual teacher is not to
blame: he is bound by the
system to see that all children
in his class reach a certain
standard on a stated curricu-
lum, and he regulates his
teaching to suit the lowest
mentality in the class. Imagine
the effect of this on the highly
intelligent child, who can take
the curriculum in his stride.
He gets so far out in front
that he becomes a nuisance to
both teachers and parents.
If State schools can have
“opportunity” classes for chil-
dren who are mentally well
below their age-group standard,
why couldn’t they have special
classes (with teachers to
match) for highly advanced
children? We must develop
our young brains. We can’t
afford to have fhem dissipated
by boredom and frustration.
It has come to light that
every year about 2000 children
of very superior to near-
genius intelligence are enrolled
in schools, but out of 1500
students who enter university
only 300 come from that top
group. (These are Victorian
figures.) What happens to the
rest?
Everyone is sympathetic to
dull and defective children,
but it is worth noting how
much care, thought and money
is spent on educating them,
while so little is done for the
near-genius.— St. Leger (Vic.).
Hiring TV
For the past three years we
have hired a TV-set from the
beginning of December to the
end of January, principally to
mitigate the strain of the
absurdly long school-holidays,
but partly, however, for our
own adult pleasure. Our last
experience convinced us that
TV is not yet worth hiring, let
alone buying.
In the first place, we found
ourselves watching full-
length films we had seen
last year and the year before
that, and some were even
duplicated within a few
months.
Furthermore, when the
tuning-dial broke off and we
called-in the recommended
expert he was unable to stay
long enough to fix it. “I’ll
take the set with me and let
you have it back tonight,” he
said.
Two days later we were still
without our toy. When we rang
the firm we were told that we’d
have to wait a week. We asked
for another set as a replace-
"Let's jump across. It's only a teenie-weenie creek!"
ment, explaining that the term
of hire was drawing to a close.
“Oh, just a hire set, is it?”
said the scornful voice from
the other end., “We thought it
was your own. Wondered how
you could put-up with all that
flicker and dimness . . . We’ll
have it back to you this after-
noon.”
It came back on time and in
much the same condition ; but
being good traditional members
of the apathetic Australian
public we did little more than
scowl at the delivery bloke.
On holidays I have hired
radios, electric-jugs, etc., and
have always received courtesy
and satisfaction. Why the
difference with TV? —Pat
(N.S.W.).
Science and Religion
If any religion, old or new
(B. 11/2/’59), is to serve its
purpose, enough human-beings
to carry it on must continue to
live. Right now a handful }f
fanatics could start a war
which might decimate the
human race and wreck civilisa-
tion ; and the time is in sight
when one fool or homicidal
maniac may be able to destroy
all life on earth.
This power of wholesale
destruction must be taken and
kept out of the hands of
criminals and lunatics. But
how? And to whom should it
be entrusted? Certainly it
cannot safely be left with the
politicians who control it now.
Apart from war, if the
world’s food-supply is to
support increasing population,
world-scale organisation of
production and distribution of
the necessities of life cannot
be postponed much longer;
and international co-operation
in the guidance of industry
may prepare a foundation for
a system of international
control of other national
activities. The International
Geophysical Year was a
pointer to what could be
achieved ; but high-level think-
ing and planning are being
frustrated on every hand by
parish-pump politicians.
Sir Winston Churchill and
others have envisaged a sort
of World Parliament to make
and administer laws on matters
outside the scope of national
government. Of that vision,
the U.N. was born into a
world which welcomed it as
Fagin welcomed Oliver Twist.
The price of continued
existence in this Brave New
World is submission to inter-
national law; but before the
U.N. or any other organisa-
tion can secure world order
and community effort we need
(as writers on this page have
suggested) some ethical code to
apply to the activities of
nations as well as of indi-
viduals.
There was such a code among
Christian peoples. King
Arthur and Bayard and Don
Quixote upheld it, and we have
fought two major wars and
some minor ones to defend it
(it and our lives and property);
but the efforts of idealists to
bring fair dealing and simple
honesty into transactions be-
tween Governments have so
far been tragically futile. We
must at least apply common-
sense in future, or else
Carl Helmar (Q.).
Compulsory Training
Having followed the remarks
of George Patterson, “Wavy
N” and “E.J.P.” (B. 14/l/’59
to 4/2/’59) I still think that no
country can hope to retain its
independence without efficient
universal training.
Admittedly the First A.I.F.
had a few seniors with active-
service records, but it would
have been “up Muckers Ditch”
for junior officers and N.C.O.s
without Andrew Fisher’s C.T.
Army. Of course the old
R.S.M.’s were still on the job,
and “E.J.P.” probably recalls
there was precious little stand-
at-ease, day or night.
Agreed, it was easier to make
a soldier in 1914 than it is with
the intricate arms, transport,
signals, etc., of today. But the
Ist Contingent, in the two
months before it left Australia,
had been reasonably condi-
tioned, had mastered regimental
drill and deployment, and had
learnt the rudiments of out-
post and patrol. Most im-
portant, it had had practice in
musketry and fire-control.
In Egypt there was no let-
up. How those troops, led
largely by C. T. officers and
N.C.O.s, performed is official
history.
But the standard of training
deteriorated noticeably in the
later reinforcements. These


JT
-
- . /
~ ™"wJ
M
soar
Caption: Nisbet and Suitor, Architects.
Sound is big business at ARTRAMSA
—that's why they control noise with
CANE-ITE ACOUSTI-TILE
The site chosen by Artransa, a leading TV and radio pro-
duction centre, at French’s Forest, N.S.W., is quiet enough
under ordinary circumstances, but with thousands of
pounds tied up in electronic sound equipment, absolute
quiet is a must! The slightest noise disturbance from out-
side or from within the studio could ruin film or TV
productions—but Cane-ite Acousti-tile provides the “sound
barrier” that eliminates 65% of all unwanted noise.
Unnecessary recording re-takes are eliminated. Musical
instruments and voices are reproduced with truer fidelity
and tone.
Cane-ite Acousti-tile is attractive, too. The bevel-edged,
perforated tiles give walls and ceilings a modern appear-
ance. Cane-ite Acousti-tile’s ivory colour blends well with
most interior finishes, but can be painted if you wish.
Consider Cane-ite Acousti-tile for your factory, office,
home or studio . . . it’s a sound business investment.
C
CSR39B
CANE-ITE ACOUSTB-TILE
Manufactured by
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
Building Materials Division
”It's terrible to think that these H-bombs could
wipe-out civilisation
were, of sheer necessity, hurried
into the line before being
battle-fit, so their percentage of
casualties was unnecessarily
high. Lack of physical harden-
ing left them more prone to
illness and exposure. Even
more preventable were the
casualties caused by insufficient
training in the recognised safety
precautions of general warfare
(patrol, outpost, etc.) and in
handling small-arms.
Training our men to fight
efficiently and keep themselves
alive as long as possible is
surely a national and personal
responsibility.— Paddy Doyle
(N.S.W.).
N.T. Troubles
The Northern Territory is
ruled by bureaucrats 2000
miles away who can, and do,
enforce ordinances contrary to
the will of the people affected.
Its private enterprise must
compete with Government
monopolies, and its public
servants are favored over those
who are trying to develop the
country
Promises of Constitutional
reform made before the
Federal elections have not yet
materialised. If anything, the
seven Government members in
the Legislative Council have
hardened towards the six
elected members.
T , c ~
Last session of the Council
demonstrated again the futility
of this body E ected members
have bitterly fought agams
being pawns of Canberra
and the condoning of “rubber-
stamp” legislation, as they have
aptly termed it. One member
called the Council a “critical
forum,” but it is not even that.
Latest piece of unfairness is
the Local Rates Bill.
At present the N.T.’s only
local-government is in Darwin
(created a municipality in mid-
-1957, and a city on January 26
last), but the Commonwealth
intends to enforce rating on
certain small townships with-
out the benefit of local-govern-
ment.
These communities, domi-
nated as they are by public
servants and Government-
owned property, could not—at
any rate for years to come —
afford local-government; yet
the Commonwealth wants the
people (other than Govern-
ment employees, who are
exempt from the responsibilities
of the ordinary citizen and
enjoy all the benefits without
paying for them) to pay rates
without having any say in
local—or, indeed, Territory—
affairs. And under this law a
householder’s goods can be
seized for non-payment of
rates.
Two-hundred people in
Alice Springs alone sent tele-
grams to the President of the
N.T. Legislative Council (who
is, of course, the Administrator
himself) protesting against the
bill ; but at the last session of
the Council, Government
members declared that such
protests could not in the least
sway the decision to introduce
the bill.
Like the C.5.1.R.0. takeover
of N.T. Administration’s rice-
growing experiments, it had
obviously been decided upon
in Canberra long before it
reached the Council. The
Government feels sure of
forcing it through at the next
session in April because of its
majority of one in the Council.
Elected members will fight
tooth-and-nail to prevent the
passage of the bill, but they
are doomed before they start.
This used to be a battler's
country. It still is, but even
the battlers are losing heart
when they have to fight the
Government as well as the
elements, high freight-charges,
isolation, and the generally
high cost of living.
A farmer slogs under in-
credible hardships, 60 miles or
more from another habitation
or a main road, to grow some
50 acres of peanuts, only to
find that the Government has
grown and sold so many pea-
nuts from its own experimental
farms that it has ruined the
market-price for the season,
and the farmer’s crop is not
worth carting 200 miles to
Darwin. The same thing
happened to a farmer who
grew pineapples.
Another farmer, after
putting a year’s hard yakka and
all his dough into a virgin
block (freehold property), got
a curt communication from
Canberra to the effect that his
block was being acquired by the
Commonwealth (“at such
valuation as the Common-
wealth shall decide”) for
another experimental farm “as
part of the policy of assisting
agriculture in the Northern
Territory.” This despite the
fact there are tens of thou-
sands of acres of similar land
—unoccupied outside the
farmer’s boundary.
If such hypocrisy continues,
the battlers may as well all
pack-up.
The Commonwealth, too,
appears to be doing all it can
to crush private transport-
companies on the Alice Springs-
Darwin highway who cart m


opposition to a Government-
sponsored road-rail co-ordi-
nated service. Yet, among other
things, Mr. Menzies boasts
of his Government’s belief in
private enterprise! It is
hardly surprising that the
P.M. has avoided visiting the
N.T. officially after more than
nine years in office.
The N.T.’s annual produc-
tion is £lb million, which works
out at £5OO per head of popu-
lation, or about twice as much
as the per capita production of
N.S.W.—but it does not even
get us a vote in the Common-
wealth Parliament! Terri-
torian (N.T.).
Harry Morant
The information Ben
Bridge and Frank Farrell gave
“Duke” Tritton about the
execution of Harry Morant
“Cant understand it. Haven t sold a thing!”
(B. 4/2/’59) seems a bit off
the beam.
Lieut. Geo. R. Witton, who
was condemned with Morant,
but whose sentence was later
commuted to life-imprison-
ment, has described the execu-
tion of Morant and Handcock
in his book, Scapegoats of the
Empire :
At six-o’clock, hand in hand in
% !o Ihefdelh^They'
firing-squad unflinching.
While waiting at the Pretoria
railway-station I distinctly heard in
the clear morning air the report
of the volley of the firing-party....
Witton nowhere mentions
“every available Australian
soldier” being marched into
Pretoria and lined-up to witness
the execution. And if this
had happened you can bet that
Witton was just the bloke to
make use of it. — Henry!
James (N.S.W.).
The Housing Problem
I a m convinced that the
plan to build more and loftier
blocks of flats to house city
populations (B. 4/2/’59) is
foolish—especially in a coun-
try like this, with its vast
empty spaces. The trend
should be to enlarge residen-
tial areas and spread the
population out by building
more individual family-homes,
each with plenty of space for
a garden, drying-yard and
children’s playground.
Already young couples are
evading the duties and respon-
sibilities of property-owners
and are acquiring a rabbit-
hutch complex. This should
not be encouraged,
When I explained to a young
couple that I could not let
mG re than two rooms besides
a separate kitchen and bath-
room the bride-to-be assured
™ that two would be enough,
as. any more would make too
much work. They did not
f ii v i n g_ ro om and
lurnisn me living room, ana
when they moved out the
floors were ankle-deep in dust.
Apparently the modern young
woman, whether married or
single, is allergic to housework.
Not long ago a business-girl
inspected the same flat and
without hesitation announced
that it “wouldn’t do.” I asked
what was wrong with it. “It’s
too big,” was the staggering
reply, and her woman friend
added: “It’s too big for one
person, but for a young mar-
ried couple it would be simply
ideal.”
A few minutes later I
received an application for the
flat and two additional rooms
from a man who thought that
this meagre accommodation
would be ample for his wife
and himself and three teen-
aged children!
“Mugga Way” (also B.
4/2/’59) tells of a five-year-old
girl who, as a punishment for
going outside to play, was sent
to bed without seeing her
favorite TV-session. I should
say that it is better for a child
to play out of doors, even if
it is in the street, than to be
cooped-up indoors, absorbed
in an artificial amusement.
There are children in my
neighborhood who spend all
their time after school in this
way. What else will children
do, and where will they play,
if existing in huge blocks of
flats becomes universal?
Twelve-storied blocks of flats
on a sixteenth of an acre of
land may be excusable in
overcrowded countries, but
they would be a crime in this
spacious land. — Hattie F.
Hopkins (N.S.W.).
Wool Problems
Tell “M anamoi” (B.
25/2/’59) that nobody is
blaming the grower for the
luxury price of manufactured
woollen goods. But every
wool-producer must realise
that wool no longer sells itself.
Woolgrowers everywhere must
therefore ally themselves
closely with any campaign to
reach local consumers.
Such a campaign must be
based on the fact that the final
arbiter is the woman-in-the-
house, even more than the
man-in-the-street. The pub-
licity for woollen piecegoods
made-up locally into garments
priced at anything from 30gns.
to 90gns. could be turned to
the advantage of synthetics-
promoters.
To use wool today is urgent;
to teach the consumer of to-
morrow the value of wool is
a matter of life and death to
the woollen industry—grower
or processor. —O. D. W. (Vic.).
Coaching
Seeing an advertisement in
the paper the other day for
teachers who wanted to make
£l5 weekly in spare time, I
rang.
It was a coaching-college. I
am a teacher, but they don’t
know me from a stick of chalk.
Could I teach this, that, t’other?
Oh, yes. Had I transport?
Yes. Telephone? Yes. 1 have
everything (including a fridge
on t.-p.) except money. Good.
They’ll let me know as soon
as they have pupils, and then
I can go off, under my own
steam, and fill them up with
knowledge (the pupils).
What do I get out of it?
About 15-bob an hour, and
they extract 10s. an hour (if
they can hijack so much out
of the parents). That is their
commish for effecting the
union between me and the
pupils.
You, too, can become head-
master of a coaching-college
tomorrow. All you need is a
telephone, a rented room and
some capital for advertising.
It’s a sitting-down job and a
sure money-spinner, for, with
the education-system the way
it is, about 70 per cent, of
school-kids need some sort of
coaching if they are ever to
surmount the examination
hurdles. — Scientia ac Boloni
(Q-).


mam
m
O'
m
m
m
i
sW O>N6R oUHO,
M t H E
dM s &»*52
10
THE ROYAL EASTER
OW
20th March to 31st March, 1959
Don’t miss the greatest spectacle of the year. At the 1959 Royal
Easter Show you will see our finest stock on parade, cattle judging, wood
chopping, primary and secondary industry exhibits and a
feature-packed programme of special ring events, including trotting.
Come to the 1959 Royal Easter Show at the Showground, Sydney.


“ROYAL”
PREVIEW
Goonoo Monkey and Goonoo Mandrake; Santa
Gertrudis team for the Royal.
Jock Robertson with the Turan Poll Shorthorn bulls
he is showing.
By ROLLO GILLESPIE
IOR the second year in succession the Royal Agricul-
tural Society of N.S.W. and Shell invited a party of
metropolitan and country journalists and photo-
graphers, radio-newsmen and newsreel- and TV-
cameramen to tour properties in N.S.W. to see prepara-
tions for the coming Royal Easter Show. Like the
1958 tour, this was sponsored by Shell and Shelf Chemical
(Aust.) Pty. The itinerary, chosen by the R.A.S., covered
properties adjacent to the New England Highway south of
Tamworth.
“Front-man” was Kelly Vickery, of Nandewar, Boggabri,
a councillor of the R.A.S. He was aided by Gilbert Mant,
public-relations officer of the R.A.S., Norman Moore, of Shell,
and Harry Ferguson, of Shell Chemical. The coach-captain
was cheerful John Austin, who drove his bus with nonchalance
and skill over some pretty heavy country.
The tourists were a party of 29 men and women —press,
radio, TV and films. And Merrianne Vickery, who accompanied
her father, the youngest member of the party, proved one of its
most hardworking and knowledgeable (she’s reading agricultural
science at Sydney Uni.) and vivacious.
Tamworth
For most of the party the tour started on February 22 at
Sydney Central, where we joined the Glen Innes mail. At
about 7 a.m. the next morning we arrived at Tamworth station,
looked round at the assembled multitude and climbed into John
Austin’s Pioneer coach.
First stop was the Oxley Lookout, 2000ft. above sea-level
and 760ft. above the city. In the cool morning air we viewed
the city from above, with its parklands, industrial and com-
mercial buildings and the Peel River winding its way through
the centre, marked by a line of willow-trees.
Tamworth, just halfway between Sydney and Brisbane on
the New England Highway, is a thriving city, centre of a
prosperous agricultural district and with secondary industries,
including timber-milling, egg-marketing, smallgoods, butter-
making, cordials, brickworks and tile-works, fibrous plaster,
concrete pipes and furniture-factories.
Surveyor-General Oxley discovered the Peel River, about
six miles north of Tamworth,
in 1818, and the Australian
Agricultural Company, formed
in London in 1824, took-up
360,000 acres at Goonoo
Goonoo in 1830 for sheep- and
cattle-raising, naming the
settlement after the Stafford-
shire (Eng.) home of Sir Robert
Peel. Tamworth was incor-
porated into a municipality in
1876 and proclaimed a city in
1946. The municipality now
has an area of 10,944 acres and a population of 17,000. From
its all-weather airport, constructed in 1954, the East-West Air-
lines fleet fly more than 12-million passenger-miles annually.
Farrer High School
After overlooking the city we drove down to the Central
Hotel for breakfast and then set-out on our first visit—the
Farrer Memorial Agricultural High School, Nemingha. At the
foot of the Moonbi Ranges, this school is set in 472 acres of
rich arable land, and named after William James Farrer, the
scientist-pioneer of the Australian wheat-industry, and was
established by the N.S.W. Department of Education in 1939.
At Farrer High School the boys were forming-up for their
morning assembly. Greeted by the principal, E. J. Smiles, we
were introduced to the newly arrived deputy-principal, Laurence
Bonnar, and then taken round the school-property. Apart from
crops and pastures, the school maintains a dairy-herd of about
Farrer Memorial Agricultural High School, Nemingha,
N.S.W.; pupils at morning-assembly.


Poll Hereford cattle on Dr. D. N. F. Leake’s property
Bahreenah, Tamworth.
80 purebred registered A.I.S. cows, a poultry-farm with 800
laying birds, a piggery and an 11-acre orchard. There’s a wool-
classing room and an up-to-date mechanics workshop.
The curriculum aims to give all pupils the academic and
cultural education of the normal high-school, while at the same
time offering special training in the scientific management of
modern farming and grazing properties. The school works in
close conjunction with the Department of Agriculture research-
station, which adjoins its property. There are at present 264
pupils.
We inspected three hives of bees which lan C. Dutton, of
Wilgian Queen Apiary, Manilla, noted apiarist (successful at
last year’s Royal) and part-time instructor at Farrer, is exhibiting
at Sydney Show. He is entering a hive of his stingless Caucasian
bees (Midnite Hybrid—almost completely black in colqr)—the
first time these have ever been shown in Australia. In fact, he
is the only breeder in Australia who keeps this variety. The
other hives he is showing are Starline Hybrids, one hive golden
and one bright-threebanded ; the one, drone-mother-bred ; the
other queen-mother-bred. The photographers had a great time
persuading Mr. Dutton’s three-year-old son to stand still while
they photographed him with the Midnite Hybrids crawling over
his arms and legs. Chris stood firm as a rock ; in fact, there were
no casualties, with the exception of one lady of the press who
got a bee in her blouse. (It was one of the stingless variety.)
Goonoo Goonoo
From Farrer to the famous property of Goonoo Goonoo.
This is owned by the Peel River Land and Mineral Co., and is
the residence of the company’s general superintendent, R.
Schmidt, who directs operations on the station-properties of
the Peel River co. and associated companies, in western N.S.W.,
Pan II, the famous French stallion, at Segenhoe, Scone,
the property of Lionel Israel.
Peel Carl, one of the Poll Shorthorn entries from the Peel
River Land and Mineral Co., Ltd., Goonoo Goonoo,
Tamworth.
western Queensland, the Barkly Tabeland and the Kimberley
areas of W.A.
The company’s activities at Goonoo Goonoo include four
studs—Poll Shorthorn and Santa Gertrudis cattle, and Merino
and Border Leicester sheep.
Dolf Schmidt was away, but we were welcomed by Mrs.
Schmidt and her son Geoff. First we were shown two Santa
Gertrudis bulls, which form the team for this year’s Royal. This
stud was founded on King Ranch (U.S.A.) males and Armstrong
Ranch (U.S.A.) females, with additional top-sires since bought
from King Ranch (U.S.A.) and King Ranch (Aust.) at Risdon
(Q.). The two bulls paraded for us were in tiptop condition
and worthy specimens of their breed. Of the two, Goonoo
Monkey had the better color, but Goonoo Mandrake looked
the better bull.
We moved off to inspect the Poll Shorthorn entry. The
foundation-females of this stud were from the Abbotslea and
Milton Studs (horned), and since the company changed to polled
cattle (about 1942) top-sires have been imported from the U.S.A.
Four bulls and a heifer are being shown, one of the bulls, Peel
Carl, by an imported sire from Scotland. I particularly liked
the heifer, Peel Charity. Don Weatherup, accountant at Goonoo
lan C. Dutton, of Wilgian Queen Apiaries and Labora-
tory, Manilla, N.S.W. (with his son Chris), showing
his Caucasian Midnite Hybrid bees.


GRAZIERS’HANDBOOK
OF DISEASES
of sheep, beef cattle, horses and dogs
by V. G. COLE, B.V.Sc.
COMPLETELY RE WRITTEN EDITION
m
m
© NEW .... a completely re-
written handbook for the sheep
and beef cattle man
• ALPHABETICAL
.... Easy to follow
• WELL INDEXED
.... for symptoms and diseases
• COMPREHENSIVE
.... Latest information
The author, Mr. V. G. Cole,
B.V.Sc., is well known to men on
the land, and his book contains
the results of wide experience as
Veterinary Surgeon for Grazcos,
and as Official Veterinary Adviser
to the Graziers’ Association of
N.S.W.
PRICE 35/- (postage 9d.)
278 PAGES
ORDER YOUR COPY NOW
GRAZ COS CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED
46 YOUNG STREET, SYDNEY
Please forward copies of “Graziers’ Handbook.”
I enclose remittance for £ : : or charge to my account.
PLEASE
USE
BLOCK
LETTERS
Name
Address.
818
GRAZCOS—THE WOOLGROWERS' OWN CO-OPERATIVE ORGANISATION
Goonoo Station, told us that
all entries for Sydney Show
would also be exhibited at
Tamworth and Quirindi shows
to gain show-experience.
We lunched at Goonoo
Goonoo homestead, one of the
most gracious homes in
N.S.W. After lunch we
watched the branding of
young stock by overseer J.
Dodds. The dexterity of Don
Brennan, who was handling
the brands, was admirable and
one envied the agility of Noel
Starr and Bob McPherson, who
handled the beasts. We visited
the stables ; then to the bus.
In the old stone storehouse
at Goonoo Goonoo Station
(long since disused), the late
Charlie Shaw’s son, Lachie
(who was on the tour with- the
A.B.C. party) drew my atten-
tion to two old signs—the only
ones left nailed to the counter:
‘The Bulletin, 6d.”; “Aus-
tralian Woman’s Mirror, 3d.”
Dailies were then a penny, and
wool was a shilling!
Pony Club
After Goonoo Goonoo, the
Tamworth Showground. Forty
members of the Tamworth
Pony Club had assembled,
after school, to give a display
of pony-club drill.
Tamworth Pony Club was
founded in 1950, and 29
members attended the first
camp. Now it has a total of
170 members (163 were at this
year’s camp), and four teams
from it will be at the Royal.
The president is Bruce
Cooper,. the secretary, Tom
Campbell (his elder son, Max,
was world-champion in camp-
drafting last year; his second
son, Sam, was junior champion
at the 1956 Royal at the age
of 11 and came second in
1958, and his daughter Bess
is a member of the Pony
Club’s 2nd team).
Chief instructor is Norman
Horneman, formerly of the
Light Horse. An ardent
supporter is Ken Murchison,
and three of the young Mur-
chisons are in the Ist team —
Rod, Kim and Toots, who have
given a Cup as a perpetual
trophy for pony-club teams
competing at the Royal Show
and coming from beyond 50
miles of Sydney’s G.P.O.
It was stimulating to see
these kids —the older members,
like the Murchison boys, are
away at boarding-school—in
their blue shirts and fawn
jodhpurs, riding like veterans.
That analogy sounds wrong.
The term “veterans” implies
age and service and, however
strict the riding-school, no
trained soldier could keep the
ardor and elasticity of these
boys and girls. They rode
their horses as if they were
part of them.
John Sutton and Sam
Hudson gave a display of
bullock-riding, and Max Camp-
bell (son of the club-secretary)
showed a bit of camp-drafting
and then joined with Barry
Fullwood in some bullock-bull-
dogging.
That evening the party was
given an informal civic wel-
come by the Deputy Mayor of
Tamworth, Alderman S. J.
Cole, and the president of
Tamworth R.S.L. Club, Mr.
B. Bowdler, at the new R.S.L.
clubhouse.
At Bahreenah
Next morning (February 24),
we made our first stop at
Bahreenah, the property of Dr.
D. N. F. Leake.
Dr. Leake, who carries on
his medical practice in Tam-
worth as well as running Poll
Herefords in his spare time,
has won awards in many show-
rings, notably at the 1958
R.A.S. Fat Stock and Carcass
Show and the 1958 grand-
championships at Quirindi for
the best male or female of all
beef-breeds.
The Bahreenah holding was
split-off Goonoo Goonoo in
1909. Ten miles south of
Tamworth, it straddles the
Goonoo Goonoo creek, and is
a mixture of alluvial flats,
which can produce seven cuts
of lucerne a year without irriga-
tion, and basalt slopes of vol-
canic origin.
Present Poll Hereford sires
at Bahreenah are Milton In-
vestor and Milton Review.
Milton Review’s dam is
almost a full sister in blood to
Investor, and his sire, Alf
Mixer Return 24th (imp.
U.S.A.), was sold, aged eight,
for 4000gns. after siring Milton
Sanak 9th, junior and open
champion at Sydney in 1956.
Recently the herd has had
introductions of the blood of
Vern Wayfarer, Vern Voucher,
Vern Yeast, Vern Allan and
South Boorok (by Vern
Milton).
Dr. Leake aims to produce
pedigree-cattle under paddock-
conditions and believes in rear-
ing calves on their mothers,
with no pampering. Bahreenah
progeny may be found in
Queensland, N.S.W., Victoria,


Express Cargo Service t 0...
EUROPE, FAR EAST, U.S.A. and CANADA
. /
ffism
V'
IS
B:3s
33?;
inn
111 l
mMP it
'» ®§§®*> a
l?W
.
.
WILHELMSEN LINE. Regular service to
the Middle East, the Continent and Scandinavia.
Refrigerated as well as general cargo space avail-
able. Limited first-class passenger accommodation
available in double or single-deck cabins.
AUSTRALIA-WEST PACIFIC LINE.
Serving Manila, Hong Kong and main Japanese
ports—returning via Shanghai, North Borneo,
New Guinea and Island ports. Regular sailings
by Milos, Delos* Aros and Citos with general and
refrigerated space available; also special mechani-
cal ventilation for fruit, vegetables, etc., in ’tween
decks. Luxurious passenger accommodation in
single- or two-berth cabins.
AMERICAN PIONEER LINE. Rap id
service of modern refrigerated cargo vessels from
Australia to U.S. and Canadian Atlantic Coast
ports, and Trinidad via Panama Canal. Vessels
carry a limited number of passengers in saloon
accommodation.
m
And for the finest in Air travel. .
fly SCtMDfMgVM/VA//l£//VfS mriFM
The only airline with two polar routes to Europe.
Los Angeles to Copenhagen (eight flights weekly). * Tokyo to Copenhagen (three flights weekly).
Make your reservation now on the new SAS Caravelle Jetliner!
For full details on any of the above services contact , , ,
WILH. WILHELMSEN AGENCY PTY. LTD.
6 6 PITT ST.. SYDNEY. B U 63 0 1
51 WILLIAM ST., MELBOURNE. MA 30.31


PORT LINE LTD.
Regular Sailings—Fast and Modern Vessels.
Taking Wool, Refrigerated and General Cargo to United
Kingdom, American and Canadian Ports.
Limited number of passengers carried.
: ' 1
M
'
mm
.
AGENTS—
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Brisbane, Newcastle, Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Fremantle and Hobart.
A. G. WEBSTER & WOOLGROWERS LTD., Launceston.
AUSTRALIAN ESTATES CO., LTD., North Queensland ports.
Head Office in Australia:
PORT LINE LTD.
(Inc. in England)
50 Young St., Sydney.
New Zealand: Maritime Building, Wellington.
TIE WIRE-NETTING
THIS EASY WAY-
(2S yds. per minute]
GERRARD
AUTOMATIC
RING FASTENER
GUN - - - 60/- eacb
GALVANISED FASTENERS
ll- per 1009
fast as you can squeeze Its
easy-working handles, this self-
jfeeding gun effortlessly clamps the
|l4 Gauge cement-adhered staples into sturdy f in. rings, which are automate
tally fed into the Jaws. There isjifijwastagftr-the iobis.auick, neat an'd^trdn®
Ring Fasteners are sold
in packets of 1000
Available from ALL WOOL HOUSES and
GENERAL STORES
*Manufactured by Gerrard Engineering Pty. Ltd., 18 Ireland St., W. MELB.
South Australia, Western Aus-
tralia and the Northern
Territory.
The two bulls he paraded,
both by Milton Review, were
Rehearsal 17th and Rehearsal
14th. Both looked as steady and
solid as English Herefords
should. Rehearsal 17th is the
pet of Dr. Leake’s little
daughter; but of the two,
Rehearsal 14th seemed the
better beast. They’re a strong
team, anyhow.
Turkey Stud
We moved on from Bah-
reenah, passing Goonoo
Turkeys at the Sunny Ridge Turkey Stud, Wallabadah, N.S.W.
Goonoo once more, through
the pass to Wallabadah, where
the old coaching-inn stands by
the roadside, and on south-
wards to the Sunny Ridge
Turkey Stud. Thirty-seven
miles south of Tamworth, this
farm was established in 1948
by L. C. Tighe, a Sydney
businessman of considerable
experience in poultry-pressing
and the export of frozen meat.
Starting with breeding and
selling live birds to a nearby
freezing-works, the farm began
selling a part of its flock
dressed in 1953, and now,
having installed a modern
processing- and freezing-plant,
markets all birds dressed. At
the present time the farm pro-
duces and sells 12,000 dressed
turkeys and 25,000 day-old
poults each year. This is over
five times the output of the
average American farm.
Ken Heath, who manages
Sunny Ridge, met us and
introduced us to Colin Heise
and his wife, his assistants.
He explained to us that the
aim is to produce a white
turkey, smaller than the
bronze, but maturing faster
and carrying more breast-meat.
This, with the absence of black
pin-feathers, he said, makes it
the ideal meat-bird.
A flock of 1500 hens is kept
at Sunny Ridge, to supply
hatching-eggs all year round.
During the winter, hens are
stimulated by artificial lighting.
Eggs are incubated and poults
dispatched from these hatch-
ings to all parts of Australia.
So exact is the timing that
eggs can be put-down to
synchronise with East-West
Airlines air-services to Sydney
and Melbourne.
When birds have reached
maturity, at seven months, they
are moved to the processing-
plant, killed, scalded and
machine-plucked. After they
have been drawn (the process
takes lymin. for each bird),
they are put into plastic bags,
which are heat-shrunk, frozen
and then boxed for shipment to
retailers.
Ken Heath is exhibiting 10
birds at the Royal Show, all
white. In 1958 he won the
Champion Turkey prize in the
commercial and table classes,
and a special prize presented
by the Australian Turkey
Federation. This is the only
stud in Australia specialising
commercially in white turkeys.
Ken and his wife entertained
us to luncheon at the home-
stead. What did we eat? One
guess! But it was delicious,
and we carried the drumsticks
away to gnaw in the bus.
Thoroughbreds
Next stop was Lionel B.
Israel’s thoroughbred stud at


HIGH-FLY ALL-STEEL
PORTS AAR GARAGES
V -J,* .»
HIGH-FLY
TUBULAR STEEL GARAGE or SHED
Made to any size light
but sturdy—2 men can erect
framework in half hour.
20ft. x 10ft. x 7ft. Steel Framework
From £35-12-6.
HIGH-FLY
CAR PORT
The economical way to cover your
car—can be erected easily—can be
used as sun porch when required.
16ft. x Bft. x 7ft. Complete £69
ABU 71
Also Manufacturers of HIGH-FLY Tubular Steel Tank Stands. • HIGH-FLY
Automatic Poultry Feeders • Automatic Plucking Machines • HIGH-FLY Stock
Ramps • HIGH-FLY Rotary Clothes Hoists • HIGH-SPAN Tubular Steel
Buildings of all Types, Industrial and Rural.
MACSHIEL RURAL ACCOMMODATION
FOR PARTICULARS AND QUOTES FOR BUILDINGS
OR RURAL ACCOMMODATION MAIL THIS
• Prefabricated steel.
• Insulated against heat and cold in roof and
walls.
• Proof against fire, white ants, dry rot and
vermin.
• Approved by Dept of Labor and Industry.
• 3 Year Guarantee against fire damage.
To
CLEVELAND ENGINEERING & WELDING CO. PTY. LTD.,
45 Kent Rd., Mascot
Or
CLEVELAND ENGINEERING (TAMWORTH) PTY. LTD.,
145 Bridge Street, Tamworth.
Or
CLEVELAND ENGINEERING (CHARLEVILLE) PTY. LTD.,
Box 180, Charleville, Queensland.
Please send me particulars of Buildings.
NAME
ADDRESS
Type and Size Req'd


Segenhoe, Scone. The original
property was held by Potter
McQueen, whose bonded con-
victs built the solid homestead
and stables about 1820. When
McQueen died in England and
left his Australian land in
Chancery, the property passed
to James White (who founded
the Belltrees family) and then
to William Brown (who bred
the stallions Tressady and
Piastre), to Stephen Brown,
Alan Cooper and finally, in
1938, to Lionel Israel.
This stud contradicts its
dreamy past by its modern,
progressive efficiency. Lionel
Israel, president of the Blood
Horse Breeders’ Association of
Australia, has imported some
notable stallions and mares—
Nilo (now in the U.S.A.),
whose progeny has won
£lBO,OOO ; the mare Royal
Gem ; and Pan 11, winner of
the French St. Leger, the
Ascot Gold Cup and the
Goodwood Cup.
Pan II was paraded for us
■—what a picture of a horse!
—and we saw many yearlings
from which Israel will select
his team for this year’s Royal,
after he’s decided which to put
in the yearling-sales.
Poll Shorthorns
From Segenhoe we moved
to Turanville, Scone, home of
the Turan Poll Shorthorn
Stud. This stud was developed
from the Albinia Stud, founded
by D. H. Robertson and his
wife. It is now controlled by
their son, J. D. (“Jock”)
Robertson, who at the age of
26 judged Poll Shorthorns at
the 1958 Melbourne Royal
Show. Doug Robertson, one
of the best-known stud and
commercial dealers in Aus-
tralia, also owns Albinia
Downs, Springsure (Q.).
The first top-sire at Turan-
ville was Oakwood Royal
King from Oakwood Butterfly
11, sister of Oakwood Baron
(international champion of
America). Foundation-females
came from the Albinia Stud.
Later importations included
Fancy Lady (imp.), Rickford
Ruby (imp.) and the Scottish
sires Bapton Crocus 28th
(imp.) and Bapton Secret
(imp.)
Jock Robertson won the
Poll Shorthorn Junior Cham-
pion prize at the 1956 Brisbane
Royal with Turan Mirage (P.)
and the reserve Junior Cham-
pion prize at Brisbane in 1958
with Albinia Gift. Present top-
sire is Turan Reflector, by
Albinia Hornet 11.
The team to be paraded for
the Sydney Royal consists of
four bulls and four heifers.
The bulls; Albinia Gift IV,
Turan Reject, Turan Alternate
and Turan Veto. Heifers
include Turan Noon, Albinia
Maritana and Albinia Missie
XI. All are looking their best.
This had been a long day,
and the strongest of our party
were feeling tired when we
moved into the garden of
Turanville for the barbecue-
supper, to which the Robert-
sons had invited us. But their
hospitality soon drove weari-
ness away. Sitting under the
stars and enjoying the delect-
able steaks our host cooked so
expertly, reminiscing about
New Guinea began tall
stories about crocodile-shoot-
ing.
John Austin could recite
“Banjo” Paterson’s verse as
long as he pleased; and he
agreed with me that pipes
were better smoking than
cigarettes. I also found that
two jackeroos, who helped
with the party, came from
Singleton Junior Farmers’ Exhibit at Llanillo, Jerry’s
Plains, N.S.W.
Route of the R.A.S. Journalists’ tour, sponsored by Shell.
Orange or nearby. When the
“front-man” made his speech
of thanks, he voiced all our
thoughts. An evening we shall
nevef forget.
Upper Hunter
Scone is the centre of the
Upper Hunter River Valley,
with its fertile river-flats and
great pastoral riches. When
we left the town next morning
we could see the wealth of
the surrounding country. There
ru-p nine rarina-ctnrk within a
are nine racing studs witmn a
lew miles of Scone, and, apart
from its renowned' bloodstock-
sales, the neighborhood is
lapidly making fat-lamb-
raising one of its major in-
dustries. The main advantage
of this area lies in the streams
of underground water which
make spray-irrigation a feature
of the district and ensure green-
fppd f nr rattlp in thp dripct
teed A or cattle in dliest
weather. One well in the
Turanville property gives
26,000ga1. an hour from a
depth of only lift. 6in.
Our first stop on Wednes-
day, February 25, was at the
N.S.W. Milk Board Artificial
Insemination Centre at Aber-
deen. Here F. Sedgwick, pro-
ducers’ representative on the
Milk Board, and M. S. Leake,
officer-in-charge, showed us the
operation of the centre and
took us round the bulls at
present in service there.
Unlike the centre at Berry,
which deals only with dairy-
breeds, this one fills a demand
for beef-cattle as well as dairy.
Bulls at present at the centre
are:
Friesian (6): Braeburn Carnation
Cavalier, Sheffield Royal Supreme,
Riverdaie King Romeo, Frasea Lord
Jewel, Trailynd Royal Beau, Mone-
ville P. Domino Lad.
A.I.S. (7): St. Andrew’s Joker,
Parkview Legacy, Valera Roseleal's
Renown, Tabbagong Ideal, Cran-
brook Princeton, Navillus Damien,
Sunny View Beauty’s Climax.
Ayrshire (3): Woodside Park
Grant, Woodside Park Nightingale
Lad, Woodside Park Ashley.
Jersey (5): Oran Park Faith’s
Beacon, Rochettes Rex (imp.),
Edgelea Beacon Monopoly (imp.),
King’s Vale Lanius, King’s Vale
Lester.
Hereford (1): Myall Largy.
Guernsey (1): Champion of
Friquet de Haut (imp.).
A.I. has proved valuable in
the development of Hunter
River dairyfarms and the


OAK
mfdmmt
***■
S2»?K"
■■Ri
. . : '\ ':',>-'V5': v ::
'
SEE THE
m
m
iliis*
EXHIBITION
RANKS PAVILION, ROYAL EASTER SHOW
Featuring:
1. Prefabricated Steel Buildings and
Garages.
2. Convertible Cabins.
3. Louvres Glass Blade and Metal
Blade Types.
4. Sunblades.
5. Door Louvres 4 inch.
6. Aluminium Hopper Windows.
7. Glass and Mirrors.
8. "Perspex' 1 Baths, Sinks, Basins,
Laundry Tubs, etc.
9. / Domestic Hot Water Systems.
10. Naco - Teleflex Remote Control
Systems.
If you are not
attending the Show
mail this coupoun
Products of N. V. APPLETON PTY. LTD.
Division of Appleton Industries Limited.
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Perth, Darwin, London.
To: N. V. Appleton Pty. Ltd., Gerler Road, Hend.a, Brisbane, Queensland.
Please send me literature on (indicate numbers shown above). .
NAME
ADDRESS
B


Private
Individuals
I- 1 -=r~
a.
%
IT:
K9L
m
wtioxal
BANK
ag
OF AUSTRALASIA
LIMITED
ftNC.'IN VICT
Business
& Industry
Primary
Producers
m
j
■m»
Community
Development
i
...Hub of Rural Activities
Whatever your interests —as a private individual ... as a
primary producer ... in connection with a country business or
industry ... or as an active participant in community develop-
ment —you can turn with confidence to The National Bank for
sound, friendly counsel.
With services to meet these four main rural needs, The
National Bank for nearly a century has helped provide a
foundation for financial security, commercial prosperity and
community progress in country areas.
Call in and see your local National Bank Manager regularly.
He is vitally interested in you, and your interests, and will be
pleased to offer you practical advice on any matter concerning
finance.
Whatever your walk in life
THE NATIONAL BANK
offers you Service
improvement of breeding. It
ensures the services of a first-
class, healthy pedigree-bull,
eliminates contagious diseases
and gives accurate information-
dates on which a cow will
calve. Deep - frozen semen
from the Aberdeen centre
has been sent to Tasmania and
New Zealand, while, by
arrangement with the English
Milk Marketing Board, semen
from British bulls is available
to Australian producers.
We moved from Aberdeen
to Muswellbrook and stopped
at the branch factory there of
the Hunter Valley Co-operative
Dairy Co., Ltd. This factory
is conveniently sited just off the
New England Highway ; milk-
lorries can enter the company’s
property by the private road
and manoeuvre into position in
the large factory-yard, so that
the milkcans can be unloaded
from the rear and put straight
onto the conveyor-belts. From
here, after the milk has been
sampled, tipped and weighed,
the empty cans first go to a
can-washing machine, where
they are washed, sterilised and
dried and then back to the
waiting lorry at the receiving-
stage.
P. D. Starr, assistant-
manager, who met us, ex-
plained that the company
has three main factories:
Hexham (head-office). Mus-
wellbrook and Morpeth.
For the year ended June,
1958, these factories treated
over 23-million gallons of
milk.
The Muswellbrook factory,
opened in 1953, is designed to
handle up to 60,000ga1. of milk
a day.
When it has been tipped and
weighed, the milk is cooled to
a temperature of 34deg. F. and
then held in stainless-steel tanks
before being pumped into rail-
way transport-tankers at the
company’s siding.
Milk not needed for distribu-
tion by rail is sent to the
storage-vats in the milk-
products rooms to be used for
manufacturing. Milk for skim-
milk powder is separated and
stored in the holding-vat, while
cream is sent to the Hexham
factory for making into butter.
Milk for making into powdered-
milk goes through a process of
evaporation and spray-drying
before it is eventually packed
The Gertrudis bull Goonoo
Monkey.
into containers ready for the
market.
The Hunter Valley Co-op.
has exhibited at the Syd-
ney Show on many occa-
sions and won many prizes,
notably first prize in the Dried
Skimmed Milk (Spray Process)
at the 1957 and 1958 Shows.
This year again they are enter-
ing their products.
Running half-an-hour late by
this time, after we had sampled
the company’s milk both neat
and diluted with tea, we were
wondering how the “front-
man” would explain it away to
our next host. He told us he
had telephoned and that there
was no need to worry. Nor
was there, when we arrived at
Llanillo, Jerry’s Plains. Here
Adrian Poole greeted us, when
we arrived at 12.45 p.m., by
giving us a printed programme,
scheduled to start at 12.15, and
simply saying: “Postpone the
first two serials; we’ll have


NOTHING EQUALS
WARMRAY'S AMAZING EFFICIENCY!
warmray
•TRADE MARK RE.GD
-L J A . -
• TRIPLE PURPOSE
• SLOW COMBUSTION
• AIR CONDITIONING
HOME HEATER
new' "H.D/'model
has over 7,000 eu. ft. heating
eapaeity, equipped with a non-
jamming shaker grate.
• BURNS ANY SOLID FUEL—
AND NfcED NEVER GO OUT.
• Beautifully enamelled
on solid cast iron, Model “H.D.” -
introduces a new mottled CERAMIC GREY,
a matching tint for the contemporary or traditional
home. HAWAIIAN CREAM is also available.
Owing to fuel saving the "Warmray" ACTUALLY COSTS NOTHING!
Reduces fuel bill at least 75 per cent.
P^SSf
. *
■
Ji
m
&
Installs in rooms with or
without fireplaces.
MODEL No. 3
SUPER DE LUXE
★ Large capacity
over 10,000 eu. ft.
"fa Special large firebox
for long burning with-
out attention.
Extra large hotplate
for cooking.
The secret of Warmray’s efficiency is the patented
Heating Tubes (illustrated) which are built into the
firebox. The air in the room passes through these
tubes continuously, thus maintaining an even, overall
warmth.
WORLD PATENTED
HEATING TUBES MAKE
THIS THE MOST
ECONOMICAL AND
BEST ROOM HEATER OF
THEM ALL, REGARDLESS
OF PRICE
WARMRAY
HEATING TUBES
* BEWARE OF IMITATIONS
Imitated?? Often!!
Equalled?? Never!!
NOTHING Equals Warmray's Amazing Efficiency!
Sold by Stores, Builders’ Suppliers and Hardware
Merchants everywhere.
WARM RAY PTY. LTD.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney
Telegrams: “Warmray,” 8L2217
If unobtainable locally, ’phone, write or call for illustrated
brochure and name of nearest agents.
3/HP-S j
lunch first and then get on
with the work afterwards.”
T .
Junior farmers
Llanillo Jersey Stud was
established in 1939 by Adrian
Poole, who was then a junior-
farmer living at Armidale
(N.S.W.). At lunch, served on
the veranda, and in the
garden we learned that our
host has not forgotten the
importance of the Junior
Farmer movement. Members
of Jerry’s Plains and Single-
ton branches of the J.F.
and their fathers and
mothers were present en
Adrian Poole, of Llanillo, Jerry’s Plains, N.S.W., with his
Aberdeen-Angus bull Llanillo Black Prince, by Primo of
Wandel (imp.) from Abington Jude, by Gratitude of
Ford house (imp.) from Edinglassie Jean 670th. Entered
in the 15-18-months class at Sydney Royal.
masse, and told us they had a
display in the barn, which we
would see afterwards. It
seemed as if the whole neigh-
borhood had turned-out to
welcome us.
Llanillo is a property of
2000 acres, about five miles
from Jerry’s Plains, bordering
the Hunter River and com-
prising undulating country
with alluvial river-flats. The
owner, having established his
Jersey stud, founded an Aber-
deen-Angus stud in 1950 with
the purchase of 12 females
from the Abington Stud and
moved both studs to the
present property in 1951.
The most famous cow in
Llanillo is Opa’s White Queen
(imp.) V.H.C., E.R.M. (by
Dreaming Master ex Opa’s
May Belle, her total lifetime
products are over 90,0001 b.
milk and 43931 b. butterfat
undoubtedly one of the
greatest Jersey cows in Aus-
tralia). Two of her sons are
at Llanillo —Llanillo Rochettes
Master and Opa’s Dreamer —
and she is at present in calf
by A.T. The herd comprises
250 cattle; 70 of these are
Jersey (of these, two bulls and
25 breeders); Aberdeen-Angus,
two bulls, 25 breeders. Jersey
top-sires are Dreaming Leader
and Llanillo Island King. Head-
sire of the Aberdeen-Angus is
Booroomooka Abel,
The show-team consists of
three Jersey bulls, nine Jersey
cows and heifers and one
Aberdeen-Angus bull (Llanillo
Black Prince, by Primo of
Wandel ex Abington Jude),
Though the Llanillo Jersey
Stud has been exhibiting at
Sydney Royal for some years,
this will be the first time the
Aberdeen-Angus have been
shown. The entry looks promis-
ing.
The Junior Farmers’ dis-
play was an eyeopener. Bill
Almond (aged 16), of Jerry’s
Plains, who has won two or
three State-championships for
lucerne-growing, gave us a
judging-demonstration of the
points of a Jersey dairy-cow.
The Singleton Junior Farmers
put-up a display of bottled
fruits and vegetables. I was
particularly impressed by Tom
Allen (aged 16) of Singleton,
State-champion for vegetable-
growing. He started at the age
of 10, growing mainly for
shows and competitions. Grow-
ing on a fifth of an acre and
working after school-hours, he
has made an average of £2OO a
year for the last six years and
won a Department of Agri-
culture trainee-scholarship for
agricultural science at Sydney
University,
These are two names only
out of many; other junior-
farmers are also coming-up.
It’s a movement that should be


ABERDEEN-ANGUS
again SUPREME at
WORLD’S “INTER-BEEF BREED” NATIONAL, STATE AND PRINCIPAL
LIVE-STOCK SHOWS, ANGUS GAINED AT LEAST-
-455 MAJOR PRIZES
Aberdeen-Angus and/or Commercial Angus, at the World’s National, State and/or
principal Live-Stock Shows, during 1958, were again supreme, in "Inter-Beef Breed’’
Competitions on the HOOF and/or as CARCASSES, for Single Pens; Pens of 2, 5 and 10;
"K. Waggon”; and “Carloads.”
Champion of the Show, on the hoof and as a carcass, 1958 Sydney Fat
Stock Show. Angus gained all the Championship Awards (six) at this Show.
The following are among the Angus Prizes gained at the world’s National, State,
and/or principal Live-Stock Shows, in “Inter-Beef Breed” Competitions:—
AUSTRALIA: 23 Champions; 6 Reserve Champions; 1 Special; 61 First's; 43 Seconds;
I 8 Thirds.
NEW ZEALAND: 1 Challenge; 6 Specials; 13 Firsts; 11 Seconds, 10 Thirds.
GREAT BRITAIN—INCLUDING “SMITHFIELD”: 5 Supreme Champions; 2 Reserve
Supreme Champions; 47 Champions; 26 Res. Champions; 65 Firsts; 32 Seconds.
CANADA—TORONTO: Grand Champion; Reserve Grand Champion; Queen’s Guineas;
First and Second.
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: 22 Grand Champions; 18 Champions; 40 Firsts.
THE ARGENTINE: Most of the Major Prizes.
There are more Pure-Bred and Commercial Angus in The Argentine than the combined
number of the other two beef breeds.
Typical ABERDEEN-ANGUS stud bulls and females, also ANGUS STEERS, will be on
Exhibition and for Sale at the 1959 ROYAL EASTER SHOW.
ABERDEEN-ANGUS “TO-MORROW’S BEEF CATTLE TO-DAY”
For further particulars apply—
ABERDEEN-ANGUS SOCIETY OF AUSTRALIA (Secretary, Harold N. Sarina),
56 Young Street, Sydney.
supported, and it is good to
find men like Adrian Poole
doing so.
We went back to Maitland
for our overnight stop and
there were guests at a civic
reception given by the Mayor,
Alderman H. T. Skilton. W. E.
Sparke, president of the Mait-
land Show Society and P. D.
Scarr were also present.
The Mayor, in his speech,
told us how much Maitland,
primarily a rural area, had
suffered from the floods of
1955, “though it has now
made a complete recovery,
helped by its citizens and the
flood-relief fund subscribed
by the people of Aus-
tralia,” The next morning
(February 26) we set-off for
A. A. and D. L. Ward’s Frie-
sian stud at Indiana, Oak-
hampton. This, one of the
leading Friesian studs in.
N.S.W., is renowned for its
production-records and success
in the show-ring,
On the Hunter River, a few
miles out of Maitland, in what
is perhaps the richest alluvial
valley in Australia, the farm
(218 acres) is ideally suited for
the production of whole-milk
and for the breeding of Friesian
cattle.
The cattle to be exhibited
at the Royal are two bulls
(Indiana Skyrocket and
Indiana Skymaster), two cows
(Indiana Echo Whynot and
Indiana Laurel Cressy II) and
two heifers (Indiana Black
Betty and Indiana Miss
Million).
The “black - and - whites”
looked good, and they were
certainly well turned-out when
we saw them.
The Vineyards
From Oakhampton on-
wards we gave cattle away and
set-out for the Hunter River
vineyards. The first visit was
to the Lindeman property
Ben Ean, where the manager,
H. P. Mollenhauer, ex-
plained the process of wine-
making and entertained us in
the cellar, where we tasted
some of his wines which won
awards in the recent judging.
The Cawarra Riesling (1958
vintage) seemed a most
pleasant wine, typically Aus-
tralian, but equal to any
German wine of similar type.
The Cawarra Claret was up
to its usual standard.
From Mr. and Mrs. Mollen-
hauer’s kind hospitality, we
moved to the Mount Pleasant
vineyards of McWilliams
Wines. To show there was no
ill-feeling, Mollenhauer accom-
panied us.
Here we tasted Maria
Montils Shiraz, 1953, a 1958
Rhine Riesling and 1950 Love-
dale Riesling. McWilliams won
the Harry Davies Memorial
Cup for the best dry table-
wine with their 1950 Chablis
and the Maurice O’Shea
Memorial Trophy (they are his
worthy successors at Mount
Pleasant) for the most success-
ful exhibit in the open classes
for table-wines, as well as carry-
ing-off the Dr. Gilbert Phillips
Memorial Trophy for the best
red table-wine for the third
year in succession, with several
other awards.
Our third stop was at Glen
Elgin, the vineyard of Messrs.
T. Y. Tulloch and Sons, Pty.,
Ltd., whose famous Pokolbin
Red and Hunter River White
have also gained awards at this
year’s Royal. Here we were
entertained by Hector Tulloch
and his wife, not only to a
wine-tasting but also to a
barbecue - luncheon. The
enormous Hunter Valley
steaks which Hector provided
for lunch could have had no
other accompaniment than
Pokolbin Red.
The cheese that ended the
meal must also be noted, ft
was made by the Hunter Valley
Co-op. The whole delightful
meal was provided from the
district.
Homeward
From Pokolbin we were in
an agreeable mood for home
via Cessnock, Wyong and
Gosford.
Four remarkable days,
which showed what Australian
primary-producers are doing


PASTURE IMPROVEMENT
with the finest equipment at lowest cost
HOWARD
■
WMi
Itlft
;V*
■
■v- ■, ,
II
H
I
s
H
£0
(
.
.
i
m
• .
. •
U
m
- Hi
m
D
D
£145
(CAPITAL CITIES)
Low deposit, easy terms.
SEED & FERTILIZER BOX
Can be mounted on Tillers, Scarifiers, Chisel-
ploughs, Trucks, or direct on Tractor 3pt. Linkage.
Used for Sod Seeding, Over-seeding and Drilling.
100 different dropping rates —up to 6001 b. super,
per acre. 10-, 12- and 14-run boxes available.
Distributors:
n'lvn Brit | tan(l Distributors Ltd., 637 Gardeners Rd., Mascot.
f Farm Machinery, 74-76 Eagle St., Brisbane.
T/G.. E Hassett Pty. Ltd., 626 Bourke St., Melbourne. White*
horse Rd., Ringwood. W.A.: Agricultural Parts Supply Co.
L4d " “ 34 1 24 ? Pler st -> Perth. Railway Pde., Bassendean.
■ : Power Equipment Ltd., 67-69 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
TAS. : Max Geeves Ltd., 123 Murray St., Hobart. 177 Brisbane
P?» nc est° n ; NTH. TERRITORY-. Nightcliff Motors,
Nightcliff, Darwin.
Manufactured by
HOWARD
OWARD
mi/sTfufsmmim.
Windsor Rd., Northmead, N.S.W.
STAND 80, SEE ROAD, SYDNEY ROYAL SHOW MARCH 20 - MARCH 31
and what may be expected at
the Royal Easter Show.
Is there any other country -
in the world that can produce
such a variety and quality of
exhibits? The large propor-
tion of our population who
live in the cities do not fully
appreciate what Australia’s
potential is.
Possibly city-dwellers don’t
realise the amount of thought-
ful planning and hard work
needed to produce not only
entries for the Royal Easter
Show but also the food we
eat.
Thanks to the R.A.S., the
Shell people, civic authorities
and everyone else who partici-
,ed in , his fascinatin trip
were able to see much in
,
,he four days What we saw
was a;en as a sample
primary-producers in
the area we covered have done
in preparation for the Show,
b was impressive enough. But
when you this effort
a hundredfold or more and
then multiply it by the
number of other districts in
N.S.W., and add the exhibits
which will come from other
States and from countries out-
side Australia, including New
Zealand, Britain and America,
you will not be surprised to
learn that total entries for the
Royal Easter Show have ex-
ceeded 31,000. Besides entries
for the horse-section, beef- and
dairy-cattle, poultry and other
birds, there are 3000 dog-sec-
tion entries, 3500 for arts and
cr&fts and 3000 for horticulture.
Prizemoney totals about
£36,000.
During the course of the
tour we saw a color-film pro-
duced by the Commonwealth
Film Unit and entitled “Aus-
tralian Food Parade.” This
has been made at the instiga-
tion of the R.A.S. for showing
overseas, as well as in Aus-
tralia. It is an epitome of
what goes on at the Show
and throughout the Common-
wealth, seen through the eyes
of an English visitor, and as
such retells the story seen on
our tour, though on an even
wider scale.


FARM TRACTOR TYRES
*■
Don’t discard your worn farm tyres. Put them back into service with better
than new tyre traction with
V ACU-LUG.
SAVE MONEY. Two VACU-LUGS cost a little more than the price of one
new tyre. Freight concessions given for distance. LUG LIFE AND LUG
ADHESION UNCONDITIONALLY GUARANTEED.
One
£
Pound
One pound will be deducted from your VACU-LUG account on presentation of this advertisement to
your local Vacu-Lug dealer, VACU-L.UG, Mascot, N.S.W., or VACU-LUG, Little Barber Street,
Gunnedah, New South Wales.
For information and Literature write to
VACU-LUG (N.S.W.) PTY. LTD
BOX 16, P. 0., MASCOT, N.S.W. ’Phone: MU 4227.
Gunnedah 911.
IMS
Pi
S
»
M
i


Raising sheep on the
island of North
Ronaldsay, one of the
Orkney Islands, pre-
sents no feed prob-
lems. The sheep live
entirely on the sea-
weed washed up on
the beaches. If the
lambs are marked and
tailed with Elastrator
Rubber Rings the
owners’ problems are
still reduced further.
The Elastrator
method causes no
blood loss, no shock
and set-back and mini-
mises loss.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
DON'T WORRY IN SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS
ABERDEEN-ANGUS BEEF-CATTLE
/'Originating in n.-e. and
central Scotland from a
group of closely related local
breeds, the Aberdeen-Angus
breed was founded by Hugh
Watson, of Keillor, Angus, and
William McCombie, of Tilly-
four, Aberdeenshire.
These two men, with their
friends and neighbors, worked
out the foundation of the
modern breed in the first half
of the 19th century. The
existence of the original local
breeds, which gradually
coalesced into this breed, goes
back to a very remote past.
The breed took a prominent
place in the mid-19th-century
agricultural exhibitions in Paris
and was successful in England
and Ireland, but made its most
significant progress in the
U.S.A., Canada and the Argen-
tine.
In Britain the field of
development was geographi-
cally limited, but id America,
where rivalry was just as keen,
there was more scope for
development of all breeds. Vast
grazing- and feeding-areas
called for a larger bovine popu-
lation, and not only the wait-
ing farmlands but also the fact
that the American population
was becoming meat-minded
brought added stimulation to
animal-husbandry.
It was not until 1873 that the
Aberdeen-Angus breed was
added to the beef-cattle family
in America, 90 years after the
Shorthorns and 56 years after
the Herefords. Yet by the
middle of the 20th century the
roll of the American Aberdeen-
Angus Herdbook contained
more than two-million pure-
bred animals, quite apart from
unregistered representatives of
the breed or crossbreds.
In Australia the Aber-
deen-Angus is today third in
point of numbers among the
beef-breeds.
The first cattle of a breed
akin to Aberdeen-Angus were
imported to Tasmania by Cap-
tain Patrick Wood, of Dennis-
toun, in 1822 or 1823. These
were “black Fifeshire cattle,”
and, since the Aberdeen-Angus
breed had not at that time been
named, it is possible that they
were of this breed. In 1858,
four Aberdeen - Angus bulls
were imported for Dennistoun
from William McCombie’s
herd at Tillyfour, Scotland.
Later bulls were imported from
New Zealand.
Meanwhile, in 1840, E. E.
Dalrymple imported one bull
and two or three Aberdeen-
Angus cows and took them to
the Darling Downs (Q.). This
herd was, however, soon dis-
persed ; so true establishment
of the herd in Queensland was
by William Hogarth, who in
1882 bought some of the Tilly-
four blood and established a
stud at Balgownie, Pittsworth.
In Victoria, J. G. Dougherty,
a Melbourne stock-and-station
agent, imported a few of the
breed in 1870 for resale. Of
these most were bought by
George Pretty (or Petty), of
Maribyrnong, Melbourne.
The breed was first brought
to N.S.W. by George Loder,
of Abbey Green, Singleton, a
noted Hereford breeder, who
also bought from Dougherty.
From the draft sent to Single-
ton, half went to George
Sparkes, of Rosebery, on the
Richmond River, and the rest
to Richard Dines, of Merriwa.
William Hogarth had mean-
while visited N.Z. and brought
back the famous bull Black
Lee (a champion bred by
McCombie) and a few cows.
On the death of George Dines,
Hogarth bought the purebred
females at Merriwa and also
got the pick of the Sparkes
herd.
South Australia and Western
Australia lagged behind the
other States in introducing
Aberdeen-Angus cattle. John
Lewis, of Adelaide, had a herd,
and probably a stud, before
1910, but no one knows when
or whence his cattle came.
A. L. Dunn, of Waratah, Ash-
bourne, owned the first
recorded stud of this breed in
the State. It was founded on
cattle he bought from P.
Sutherland, of Thologolong,
Wodonga (Vic.) in 1920.
Aberdeen-Angus were estab-
lished in Western Australia in
1891 by the father of John
Muir, of Beeside, Manjimup.
Adam Elder, of Teviotdale,
Moulyinning, brought cattle
from Scotland in 1911-12 and
formed a new stud in 1922. His
first registered sire was bred by
Sutherland and Sutherland, of
Victoria. From these begin-
nings, the “Doddies” have
spread right up the western
coast to Broome and on to the
Kimberleys.
The Aberdeen-Angus Society
of Australia was founded in
1919 with the aim of preserving
the pedigrees of purebred
cattle, maintaining the best
interests of the breed and
popularising it throughout the
Commonwealth.
The society was able to
collect the available data for a
herdbook, and, with the help
of R. S. Maynard (then
secretary of the Hereford
Society) Volume I was pub-
lished in Brisbane in 1922,
giving particulars of 62
numbered bulls and 313
numbered cows.
Among the studs registered
in the first volume was Eding-
lassie, founded by the White
Brothers, who bought the com-
plete Tucka Tucka stud, which
traced back to two bulls and
six cows imported in 1888 by
J. R. Smith. This stud was im-
proved by further importa-
tions, notably Quinton of
Haynes, Carolus Mulben and
Everall. Abington, another
registered stud, founded by
N. L. Forster, of Abington,
Armidale (N.S.W.), dated back
to 1918, when 10 heifers of
the Trojan Erica family—all
going back to Eclypta (imp.)—
were bought from H. B.
Williams. To mate with these,
Drummadrochat was imported
from New Zealand and later
more heifers were bought from
H. B. Williams. The combina-
tion of this formation and
Banker of Castlecraig (imp.)
gave Abington its prominent
place in the show-ring.
The latest edition (Volume
XVIII) contains a membership
of 503 breeders and a registered
list of 856 bulls and 3510 cows.
The total number of registra-
tions since 1922 is over 24,000.
The society has its own
distinctive brand, which must
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(5/3/’59)
Reasonably good rains are indicated in Queensland
during April, with heaviest falls on the north coast, though
rainfall may be poor in the far west and far south-west
areas. Light patchy rains may be received in May and June.
New South Wales should have moderate general rains
during April, although falls may be light in part of the
Riverina and along the Darling. The central and mid-north
coastal districts and part of the Hunter River Valley may
get heavy rains, combined with cyclonic activity along the
coast. Rainfall will probably be patchy in May and June.
In Victoria the central division, Gippsland and the
north-east and west coast districts should receive fair rains
in April, although the rest of the State may have only light
patchy rains. Patchy rainfall may be expected until July.
South Australia may have only light patchy rains during
April, although good rainfall should begin in the agricultural
areas in May, with good follow-on rains in June. However,
rainfall may be poor in the interior.
Rainfall may be poor in Western Australia during
April, although reasonably good rains may be expected in
the s.-w. agricultural areas during May.
LENNOX WALKER.


High-Grade
Riding Boots
For over 50 years, Byrne Bros, have
been Australia’s leading shoe makers.
Quality, styling and true craftsmanship
will be found in every pair of Riding
Boots, whether they be a stock size or
tailored to your individual requirements.
Riding Boots, tailored from high-quality
imported German Calf and English Silk
Elastic £l2/12/-
Tailored to measure ...... £l4/14/-
YRNE BROS.,
Shoemakers for 50 years
15 WILMOT STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite the Trocadero )
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
Wool Type Card. This Card
has many uses—as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered—in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed,
or in the paddock, with a
type, perhaps, outside the
main run of your experience.
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing.
A comparison study, using
the Bradford Wool Type
Card, eliminates the possi-
bility of error. Your name
and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to
“The Bulletin” will send one
on its way.
be impressed on the nearside
cheek of the animal. Wrongful
use of this brand is an offence,
punishable under the Brands
Act, so it remains a hallmark
of breeding protected by law.
The latest annual report of
the Aberdeen-Angus Society
records an increased member-
ship-list and a sound financial
position. The fact that Aber-
deen-Angus and Angus cross-
breds have again held a pro-
minent position in “all-breed”
fat-stock shows and competi-
tions in Australia and over-
seas, as well as at other shows,
combined with the increasing
demand for commercial Angus,
indicate the growing popularity
of Aberdeen-Angus in all beef-
producing countries.
Ch inese - gooseberries
“L. 8.5.”: An interesting new
item in New Zealand’s eco-
nomy is the market for
Chinese-gooseberries (Actinidia
chinensis).
These brown, hairy berries,
sometimes so big that only six
or eight go to the pound, are
borne on rampant vines need-
ing strong supports. They do
well in parts of the North
Island, especially Tauranga.
The vitamin-rich berries
ripen in May and June, and
keep well, and crops yield up
to 5001 b. a vine.
Rats like the fruit, as do
silver-eyes and other small
birds, and cats eat the roots.
Other facts: handsome foliage;
attractive flowers; summer
moisture and heavy manuring
important. But the vine will
grow into a monster if left un-
tended in a favorable situation.
Plastic Mulch
“MacMuirick”: Use of a
plastic mulch on tomatoes
around Murwillumbah (N.S.W.)
has resulted in an increase in
yields of over 100 per cent.
The trial was only a pre-
liminary one, but because of
its outstanding results further
trials will be conducted this
year by the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture.
Actual yields in the trial were
8131 b. of tomatoes on the
plastic-mulch plot, while the
control-plot, harvested 16 days
later, yielded only 3351 b. Cost
of mulching is estimated at
£lOO an acre, but with normal
care the plastic should last at
least two seasons, halving
relative costs. The plastic used
in the trial was 0.004 in. thick,
and was colored black to
eliminate weed-growth.
The high cost of the plastic
should be easily offset by high
yields, less irrigation and low
labor-costs in weed-control.
Artificial Insemination
“Auld Mackie”: Recently a
dinner was given in London by
the British Milk Marketing
Board to mark the breeding of
10-million cattle by artificial
insemination since the service
was started in 1943. In 1944
and 1945, 2600 calves were
dropped, and by 1957-8 the
total had reached 1,399,000.
The service sires used at
present are: dairy breeds, 4;
beef-cattle, 7; dual-purpose
breeds, 4. Analysing per-
formances over the period, it
was disclosed that in England
and Wales in 1945 108,676
field-bulls were used ; by 1958
the total had dropped to 55,200.
In 1945 there were 46,200 bulls
in process of rearing, but by
1958 the total had fallen to
21,300 —a decline of about 46
per cent. Non-pedigree sires
were rapidly disappearing. In
1947 licensed non-pedigree
animals were 11,180, but in
1958 only 3498 licences were
issued.
Lucerne
“Thulimba”: In Queens-
land’s “Granite Belt,” where
500,000 acres of trap-rock
country was once considered
useless for anything except
grazing, experimental sowings
of lucerne have given such
good results that the land is
now used for fat-lamb raising.
On one property, 12 miles
from Stanthorpe, 100 acres of
hillsides, sown - down to
lucerne, now have a carrying-
capacity of 800 fat-lambs a
year. Formerly, sheep and
lambs were sent north to the
Darling Downs for fattening,
but this is no longer necessary.
Graziers interested in the
experiments have been buying
this cheaper land for fat-lamb
raising. At the recent Stan-
thorpe Show 150-head of
prime-quality sheep and lambs
grazed on lucerne in trap-rock
country brought favorable
comment from the judges.
Trees for Poor
Country
“Pat O'Day”: The tung-oil
tree (Aleuritis fordii) does well
in poor ironstone-country, like
that found around Liverpool
(N.SAV.) and similar coastal
lands.
Planted on the sides of hills
in this type of country, and
given a southerly aspect, the
tung-oil tree should bear a
heavy crop of nuts in the
second year at least, and oil
produced from these nuts is of
considerable value.
The tree, which attains a
height of 20ft., won’t grow
properly in loamy soil or rich,
river-flats, as some growers
have found to their cost.
For cold mountain areas, as
well as hot, dry Riverina
country, the Schinus (pepper-
tree) thrives in hard soil, and
dry summers (such as that of
the Junee district) do not affect
it. Stock eat the leaf and berry
with relish, but still leave this
particularly hardy tree intact.
The pepper-tree grows to
30ft., and is a graceful ever-
green, but sturdy as a
eucalyptus.


/
/
m
[!:!;!
s upeß fiNE
QUALITY
vJjNoy
SM
m
EFFECTIVE n
the
jssss
SHEEP AMD CAI
ass
SIiP6RWi* fc <
c £ :
u
m
w wench
tNreS TIM* 1
J*'*OW*L,WORMS <H
CATTLE
S
£
k f
X'-'
'PTrepavlV
<sf Ph
enothi
*22
'azihe
1
• •
tfjw ONLY ONE DRENCH for certain control
of ALL MAJOR WORMS in ALL SHEEP!
Extensive research by ICIANZ scientists has proved 1 that increased purity in
Phenothiazine and a finer particle size give nraxirniiDi effidenoy against st wider range
of worm parasites.
These discoveries have now led to the release ol & new* unproved formulation of
'PHENOVIS 7 ,
sukekeme
'QUALITY
INSIST on the NEW PACK ~
«* from your local ICI dealer
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA & NEW
ss
1
24Q.PHEj84X.5438


primarily for children, but there seems
no reason for it to be restricted to such
shrimps. It should interest an entire
nation of horse-lovers.
One may mention at the same time
John Child’s Australian Sea Shells,
appropriately published by the Peri-
winkle Press, 44 Phoenix Street, Lane
Cove. Sydney, and subtitled “an
introduction for young biologists and
collectors.” A nicely produced book-
let with a colored frontispiece and
copious black-and-whites, it may be
described as a sort of junior pocket-
edition of Joyce Allan’s “Australian
Shells,” and as such should be useful
to the young shell-hunter. The price
is 7s. 6d.
Off to China
Red Carpet to China (Longmans) is
a fascinating story. One has often
wondered what these cultural delega-
tions to Soviet countries do and say,
what their hosts do and say and what
comes out of their peace-and-friendship
expeditions. Now we know—abso-
lutely nothing.
Michael Croft, the author, was the
founder of the English National Youth
Theatre. He is a cultivated man, sensi-
tive, sympathetic and good-humored
and capable of an objective judgment
and a keen observer. He has many of
the prejudices of the average English-
man, but knows he has them. Invited
to join an international youth delega-
tion to China, he went with no illu-
sions, expecting to be bored, but he
wasn’t.
He learnt more about human nature
during the six weeks’ tour, with its
staggering schedule of sightseeing and
social functions and the almost fanati-
cal hospitality of his hosts, than he
would have from reading a thousand
books about ideologies and so forth.
His education began from the
moment they were all packed into the
plane at Moscow.
In the delegation were two Egyptians,
a Sudanese, a Syrian, an Algerian, a
coffee-colored Cuban, a white-skinned
Chilean, a young Australian from an
evangelical movement who had hap-
pened to be holidaying in Paris when
the invitations were issued, a Swedish
priest, a Danish journalist, four Com-
munist youth-leaders from Italy,
Hungary, East Germany and France,
three Y.M.C.A. men from Sweden,
West Germany and England, and
Ricardo, a gangling young Spaniard
who had also climbed on the band-
wagon in Paris, despite the Spanish
prohibition on travel in Red China.
As a cross-section of modern
humanity it could not be bettered. They
were all ostensibly going to China to
seek the truth. The Suez fiasco and
the Hungarian revolution were then in
full blast, and the latest developments
were coming over the radio, so there
was plenty of matter for discussion.
Unfortunately their minds had been
made up before they started, their
Chinese hosts had had theirs made up
before their arrival, and if it had not
been fop the smiles, the handshakes,
the magnificent food punctuated by
meaningless speeches and the lavish
entertainment they received they might
just as well have stayed at home.
Croft had no interest in the official
programme. He visited the theatres,
the slums, the sampan-dwelling popu-
lation of Canton and the amazing
dance-halls of Shanghai and Peking:—
Arrived at Tientsin—the gateway
to Peking—in early evening. Usual
barrage of bouquets and beaming
faces. They're howling for British
blood in “The People’s Daily,” but
nothing disturbs the welcoming
smiles of Peace and Friendship/...
I notice that one of the jollier
Chinese dances is to a tune which
time and again the welcoming youth
have sung on our arrival. Pan says
it is the national song of all young
people. He translates it with fiery
relish.
“Unity is Strength —
Unity is Strength —
This Strength is like Iron —-
This Strength is like Steel
It is even stronger than Iron —
It is even stronger than Steel —
It directs its Fire against Fascism —
Let all Undemocratic Systems perish —
Let us ' spread our Far-Reaching
Radiance —
Let us march forward to the Sun, to
Freedom,
And to a New China.”
I quibble over the word “fascist” but
he declares categorically that it is a
word to describe “all who are against
the people.” He pinches my arm and
informs me that I have a very
beautiful face. “Not the face of a
Fascist but of a big lovely English-
man.” Further compliments are cut
short by the ending of the party and
the rapid exit of all the girls, dis-
creetly watched off the premises by
smiling League officials.
An Angus Wilson Novel
Angus Wilson’s The Middle Age of
Mrs. Eliot (Seeker and Warburg)
suggests a comparison with Gals-
worthy, for many of Wilson’s charac-
ters are direct descendants of the
Forsytes, and for all Mrs. Eliot’s
sophisticated notions of party-food, her
grandfather may well have dined
weekly on saddle of lamb.
Mrs. Eliot’s brother, with his part-
sublimated homosexual miseries, is
much the sort of man Bosinney might
have become in the 1950’5. Moreover,
with different names, we have met most
of them in Wilson’s books before, so
that there is a quite Galsworthian sense
of continuation.
This Mrs. Eliot is something of a
puzzle. One feels that her creator had
every intention of liking her and creat-
ing sympathy for her among his
readers. At 43 her happy and success-
ful life is altered startlingly when her
apparently happy and successful hus-
band is most incongruously killed. She
is a childless woman, wealthy but not
lazy: given to “good works” (sitting on
a charity committee and working quite
hard for it); putting herself out for her
friends (as long as she can patronise
them); being hostess for her brilliant
barrister-husband. But his untimely
death leaves her comparatively poor.
She will have to train for a job of
some sort and earn her living; and she
realises, too, that basically she has
failed him to a dismal degree. •
Her friends remain—or at least until
three-quarters of the way through the
book, when she has alienated them all.
They are, however, such irritating
females that she should be more con-
gratulated than commiserated with,
and one turns with more interest to
what she will make of her new-found
ease in her brother’s society. In the
nicest possible way (and with a nervous
breakdown as excuse) she quite
disrupts the harmony he has almost
achieved after a bereavement which,
for him, was as bitter as Eliot’s demise
was for her. She goes part-way to
giving him some peace and order in
return, and then walks out.
All this sounds very bald. And here
we get to Galsworthy again. Both
Wilson—in, for instance “Anglo-
Saxon Attitudes,” that beautiful book
—and Galsworthy in the first Forsyte
trilogy, have so much to tell, say and
discover for us, that amplitude is a
virtue. They are further comparable
in that, like Thomas Mann, they show
that art can make tragedy from middle-
class life and a hero no more noble
than Humpty Dumpty can have a fall
which makes us feel that this is a true
and ennobling disaster and not just a
very sad thing that happened to Mrs.
Smith.
But Mrs. Eliot’s middle-age is a
dreary, irritating period and a much
shorter book could have disposed of
it more tellingly. One misses, too,
Wilson’s earlier satirical humor. He
was never a cracker of little jokes, but
once allowed us to share his ironic
vision. One guesses that Poll and Else
in this book were meant to be laughed
at and with, but it never comes off,
and they are merely pathetic.
Having complained so much, it is


The Enemy Camp
Jerome Weidman
This is a strong, moving and shocking novel about a Jew who
—though married to a Gentile—believes the entire Christian
world is “the enemy camp.”
22/6
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
AUSTRALIAN CRICKET
A HISTORY
by A. G. (“JOHNNIE”) MOYES
Here is a complete picture of cricket in Australia, past and present, by the
expert best qualified to give it. His shrewd appreciations of our cricket
giants make this a “must” for enthusiasts. With 48 pages of photographs.
50/- (post 1/1)
Available from all booksellers and . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castfereagh Street, Sydney
only fair to remark that someone new
to Wilson’s books would doubtless
admire and enjoy much here. But he
needs to discover an entirely new col-
lection of people and to lock his
stock-characters in some impregnable
cupboard before it is too late.
N. K.
Quakers
In The Quakers, a New Look at
their Place in Society (Wingate), John
Sykes presents a few surprises for those
who think of them as merely a Puritan
sect.
For instance, their heaviest persecu-
tors in early times were the Puritans
themselves. It was Puritans who had
them beaten and thrown into jails
where they were ankle-deep in excre-
ment and had excrement emptied over
them; and it was a Puritan Parliament
that condemned Nayler, after he had
re-enacted Christ’s entry into Jerusa-
lem at Bristol, to be “pilloried,
whipped, branded, his tongue bored
through, and finally to be left languish-
ing in prison”—where he died.
Then, again, in New England, which
most Australians know only through
“The Scarlet Letter,” and where you'd
think Quakers would have been wel-
comed, “two Quakers, for speaking
forth in Salem following the minister’s
Sunday-morning sermon, were given
350 lashes each during nine weeks of
imprisonment”; and this, and the
sentence of an aged Friend to 117
strokes of a tarred rope in a day, not
quenching the Quaker fervor, Quakers
were sentenced to lose ears, be branded,
and have their tongues bored through.
Still the Quakers came back for more.
Two men were hanged, a woman,
sentenced to be hanged, was reprieved,
but returned to Boston, and was hanged
—and here again, it was “the restored
monarchy in England” that “saw fit to
put a stop to these Puritan excesses.”
The principles of honesty and plain-
dealing for which they suffered, and
the suffering which united the Quakers
so closely, combined, as they gradu-
ally were accepted by the laws, to
make them trusted as businessmen and
powerful as interlocking families con-
trolling vast accumulations of money.
Towards the end of the 18th century
the great Quaker banking-names were
established: the Barclays, the Hoares,
the Gurneys, the Lloyds. The Bar-
clays, being originally linen-merchants,
were agents for the Logans and Pem-
bertons of Philadelphia, and were
linked by marriage to the Hanbuiys
and Osgoods, leading tobacco-
merchants with vast interests in, and
agencies for, Virginia and Maryland.
Spencers, Rawlinsons, Champions,
Lloyds and Darbys laid the founda-
tions of British heavy industry; Peases,
Backhouses, Hustlers, Foxes, Weres,
Crewdsons were in textiles; north
country Quakers developed the Leeds
and Liverpool Canal and pioneered
railways, sponsoring George Stephen-
son’s Newcastle factory for making
steam-engines . . .
All this led, says Sykes, to a certain
amount of smugness: “Three genera-
tions, Emerson considered, were
required to turn a radical Friend into
a Tory churchgoer”; and Stephen
Grellet. the new Quaker revivalist who
carried his missionary fervors as far
as Russia, was more a showman,
perhaps, than Quakers could quite
approve of. Wheeler took Quakerism
as far as New Zealand in the early
1800’s. Elizabeth Fry became the
Quaker saint of the jailbirds and
Bright of the Parliamentarians.
The revival of Quakerism in this
century was caused by the imprison-
ment of those who refused to be con-
scripted for World War I. During and
after the war the Quakers specialised
in relief-work in Holland, Serbia,
Hungary, Poland, Russia and Ger-
many. In 1921 they were helping to
feed the starving Russians: Ruth Fry,
secretary of the Friends’ Relief Com-
mittee, noted that the Soviets “des-
cribed Quakers as psychologically
incapable of espionage.”
The book concludes with a survey
of present-day activities of Quaker
bodies in the international field.
Fischer on Beethoven
The most pleasant thing about
Beethoven’s Pianoforte Sonatas (Faber)
is that Edwin Fischer is not another
of those dry theorists who tear music
to bits, analyse it and throw it at the
student with their own interpretational
ideas predominating; Fischer is more
concerned with style, a kind of inner
probing into the playing of Beeth-
oven’s sonatas.
So, although he looks closely at the
sonatas, he doesn’t go in for bar-by-bar
analysis; he gives three paragraphs to
the final movement of the Sonata in
F. Minor, Op. 2, No. 1, and his thought
that it is a “wild nocturnal piece full
of sharp contrasts” implies a great
deal more than is actually written. All
32 sonatas are looked at in much the
same manner; Fischer speaks of “the
cheerful character” of the F Major
Sonata, Op. 10, No. 2; the G Major
Sonata, Op. 14, No. 2, is described as
“this sunlit forest-scene.” And so on.
Like gold-specks in a prospector’s
pan, the information is there; sympa-
thetic understanding floods the book;
and if, after studying Buonamici’s
Beethoven analysis, then reading
Fischer, one cannot discover some-
thing fresh about sonata-playing, it
would probably be best to give-up the
piano—or, at least, Beethoven.
There is a valuable chapter on prac-
tising—second only to Andor Foldes’s
“Keys to the Keyboard”— in which
Fischer puts forward the refreshing if
neglected thought that “technique
resides in the head, not in the fingers.”


IT'S
Him
IT'S
FUN!
<2A
m
m
:
Ci\f
g m
Like BP SUPER . . . it makes the miles fly!
Its
BP
m
Law
|t .p/CO* SIGN
CYCIE
ISO
Ill'll
oil BASKET
WW / p
&31
lSO p
NUMBER nATE
DtIISTBICIEO
E
Everyone can play ‘Spotto*
Australia's great new
holiday motoring game!
Play ‘Spotto’ this Easter
Get your set of Spotto cards from any BP/C.O.R
Service Station when you fill up with BP SUPER
or C.O.R the only petrols that contain BENZOL.
BP AUSTRALIA LIMITED, formerly The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited
