

The Bulletin
The Lawson Legend— ll
Wednesday, April 15, 1959
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by. post as a newspaper.
"C'mon, Mr. and Mrs . Jones—you can't escape from the Achilles Household
Hire-purchase Corporation! "


LEARN
How to Write
STORIES/ARTICLES
SUCCESSFULLY
STOTT’S CAN TRAIN YOU
STOTT’S COURSE
will provide you with interesting,
Practical, Home-study Instruction of
the highest quality, under the guidance
of thoroughly experienced Instructors.
Literary Prospectus Free.
Write at once for your copy.
Dj KU
IK
100 Russell SI., Melbourne; 149 Castlereußh
St.. Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane;
21 t«renfeli St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St.,
a Perth.
err A\D MAIL THIS COVPO.\“
To STOTT'S: Please send me. without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE CS.B. 853)
BOOK II UN TER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
SCIENCE AND LITERATURE
Edited by A. Norman Jeffares and
M. Bryn Davies, both well known in
Australian universities, The Scientific
Background (Pitman), is an interest-
ing and peculiar anthology designed
to bridge the gulf between science and
literature.
Perhaps—a point barely touched on
by the editors—the gulf is not as wide
as we often think. For if it is a fact
that the scientists talk a wierd, private,
symbolic language which nobody can
understand, it is also a fact that a great
deal of modern literature is in a wierd,
private, symbolic language which
nobody—except perhaps a scientist —-
could be expected to understand.
Indeed it might be argued, if one
wanted thoroughly to confuse the issue,
that it is the sinister influence of
science, justifying the use of jargon
and tempting writers to regain their
mystical and prophetic status by imitat-
ing scientific obscurity, that is largely
responsible for the difficulty of so
much contemporary writing. Or, of
course, you could have it the other
way and say that it is the obscurity of
literature which has justified and
encouraged the obscurity of the scien-
tists. When “Finegans Wake” and
Pound’s “Cantos” remain the private
playground of scholars, when even the
average art-critic is barely intel-
ligible, why should Einstein trouble
to make himself clear? One way or
another, jargon, obscurity, the cult of
superiority, are indeed the burden of
the age.
But there are, no doubt, many more
obscure scientists than there are
obscure writers. It is still at least
possible, if you can sink so low, to
understand the evening paper. And,
granting that literature is in general
intelligible, and science seldom, there
is no doubt that the gulf, which is
spiritual as well as stylistic, does exist.
There is even an active hostility.
Jeffares and Davies demonstrate it
most amusingly in a wicked quotation
from Lytton Strachey scarifying Bacon
in his last moments as “an old man,
disgraced, shattered, alone on High-
gate Hill, stuffing a dead fowl with
snow”—a quotation which they con-
trast with the much truer, more
humane, more dignified picture from
John Aubrey:—
Mr. Hobbs told me that the cause
of his lordship’s (i.e., Sir Francis
Bacon, Lord Verulam’s) death, was
trying an experiment: viz., as he was
taking the air in a coach with Dr.
Witherborne... .towards High-gate,
snow lay on the ground, and it
came into my lord’s thoughts, why
flesh might not be preserved in
snow as in salt. They were resolved
they would try the experiment
presently. They alighted out of the
coach and went into a poor woman’s
house at the bottom of High-gate
hill, and bought a hen, and made the
woman exenterate it, and then
stuffed the body with snow, and my
lord did help to do it himself. The
snow so chilled him that he immedi-
ately fell so extremely ill....that in
two or three days he died of suffoca-
tion.
If Strachey thus illustrates one side
of the gulf, the literary man’s hostility
to the scientist, on the other hand there
is Isaac Newton reported to say that
he could see no use in poetry . . . and,
paradoxically, sometimes expressing
himself in prose so rhythmical, so
imaginative, so humane, that it was
almost as useful as poetry:—
I do not know how I may appear
to the world ; but to myself 1 seem
to have been only like a boy, play-
ing on the seashore, and diverting .
myself, in now and then finding
another pebble or prettier shell than
ordinary, while the great ocean of
truth lay all undiscovered before me.
When scientists can write as well as
this, obviously there is a place for
literature and science to meet; and that
is the plan of this anthology, which
consists entirely of passages of beauti-
ful or at least bearable writing from
the scientists. The scientific student
is supposed to learn from this that
science should express itself lucidly
and in good English; and, going
further, he is to develop a taste for
literature for its own sake. The
“humanities” student is to learn that
scientific writing can be good prose;
and, going further, is to have his mind
enlarged and his imagination stimu-
lated by all the wonderful discoveries
science has to offer. Thus —to use a
cliche that has kept submitting itself
ever since one began this review—the
breach will be healed; and science and
literature shall march forward together,
hand in hand, wherever they may be
going.
These are noble aims. Whether such
an anthology, entirely of scientific writ-
ing, will really promote, speed, further
or foster them (whatever you do to
an “aim”) is open to question.
The indignant student of literature
may feel that the scientists, not con-
tent with replacing the writer as a
prophet, refusing to talk to him and
conspiring to blow us all up, are now
claiming to write all the best prose in
the world. The scientific student,
though not at all likely to be indignant,
may find himself confirmed in the in-
tolerable opinion that science will serve
for literature.
Nevertheless, the aims remain
noble. The scientific student is cer-
tainly likely to have his prose-style
improved, and may well be tempted to
proceed into the illimitable spaces of
literature beyond this modest book.
The literary student, compelled to
admit that even such old friends as
Gilbert White, Captain Cook and
Gerard Manley Hopkins may reason-
ably be classified as scientific writers
along with Darwin. Huxley and Frank-
lin. will find that science and literature
have much more in common than he
thought; and. in the writings of James
Jeans, Bertrand Russell and Sir George
Thomson (the hydrogen-bomb) will
find plenty of that enlargement of the
mind which science, when it is intel-
ligible, can so rewardingly provide. It
is even faintly possible, avoiding a
nasty looking equation, to understand
a piece of Einstein in this book, on
railway-trains and relativity. The
anthology is designed as a textbook;
but, if he refrains from answering the
questions at the end. there is no reason
why the general reader should not
enjoy it.
Founding a University
D. H. Drummond, M.P., former
N.S.W. Minister for Education, has
set down, in A University Is Born
(Angus and Robertson), to encourage
the others, the frightening series of
transactions that resulted in the Uni-
versity of New England, Armidale.
Elected M.L.A. for Armidale in
1920, Drummond became in 1927
(Continued on page 58)


mwm
SsbjSSSSgM
t
y
m
■ i
n\
rUt
Where do you go from here?
The heartbreaking struggle to build another
home... .furnish it replace the possessions
of a lifetime.... alone, and without help? Or
a phone call, a friendly discussion with Insur-
ance Company of North America experts and
a prompt settlement of your losses. You’ll
appreciate the co-operation of an Insurance
Company that believes in prompt claims
settlement and the interpretation of insurance
contracts in a spirit of compromise and
reasonableness.
For 167 years I.N.A. has given security by
insurance brought a new concept of
insurance protection. These advantages can
be yours—today.
Fire strikes more frequently, more disastrously
....than you think. You cannot afford
to be without full and proper insurance cover.
A phone call to I.N.A. will bring you —-
without obligation—the helpful advice of their
experts.
I.N.A. specialises in insurance cover for
General Household policies (Home and
Contents, and Personal Effects), Small Busi-
ness policies (Fire with Consequential Loss
of Profits, Public Risk, Burglary, Plate Glass,
Personal Accident and Sickness), Marine
policies (intrastate, interstate and inter-
national), Tourist Travel and Luggage Protec-
tion.
It may well be in your own interest to see
how I.N.A. can serve you. You will find them
friendly people to deal with.
1792
INSURANCE COMPANY OF NORTH AMERICA
Incorporated in U.S.A. with limited Liability.
BRANCHES AT SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • AUCKLAND, N.Z.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, April IS, 1959
Vol 80—No. 4131
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adama
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
DETERRENTS AND DEFENCE
T7IELD-M ARSH ALL MONT-
-*■ GOMERY may be all the
chattering British press says he is, and
his proposed visit to Moscow may be
a piece of injudicious busy bodying;
but on the question of the defence of
Western Europe, and particularly on
the reasons why Berlin and Germany
should be defended, his views as a
soldier seem sound commonsense, if
somewhat alarming. A visit from a
straightforward soldier who clearly
knows where the Kremlin is going and
lets its inhabitants know it might do
a lot of good.
Unfortunately, his expression of his
convictions about the weaknesses of
our side do not appear to have achieved
much, and he has been treated by
press and politicians alike with the
aloof contempt which is apt to wither
the disturber of vested interests in high
places.
In his symposium on Nato in his
“Memoirs” he called for a “thorough
overhaul of the whole of its organisa-
tion” and for “searching examination”
of its politico-military organisation—
“at present.... top-heavy, expensive
and does not work well.”
The frequently changed overall
command, always American at the top,
shifts its policy with every new
appointment and sometimes leans
towards complete Americanisation.
The Council sits permanently in
Paris, with each of the nations con-
cerned represented by an Ambassador.
The Council’s military advisers, the
Standing Group, which also is the
military executive of Nato, is lodged
3000 miles away in Washington. It
functions under the shadow of United
States politics. Its overall field-com-
mand is American, and it is difficult to
understand how the whole is expected
to function except as an American
conception in which all the Western
European nations are regarded as
satellite to the U.S.A.
Field-Marshal Montgomery asks how
two organisations, civil and military,
can co-operate closely and efficiently
if they are 3000 miles apart, and having
been the Deputy Commander of the
Nato troops since the body was estab-
lished, criticises this condition of
affairs:—
Simplicity and decision, two absolute
essentials in war, have disappeared from
the Nato military organisation. We are
producing military commanders trained
in the art of compromise . . . Much of
Nato thinking it muddled and confused.
He continues with another issue
which has been raised often in “The
Bulletin,” but which is scarcely ever
expounded in high military circles: —
The global aspect of defence is
disregarded. Defence problems have got
into the hands of the Foreign Ministers;
these know little about the subject, and,
furthermore, they are not responsible for
defence.
VET, with its huge redundant staffs
A and its amateurish outlook, Nato
had behind it defence Budgets totalling
about £20,000 million sterling last year,
without having available, to meet
emergency, what the most experienced
military officer of the Central Com-
mand considers a unified command or
plan to meet global war (as any major
war that comes must be) or available
forces, “mobile as a strategic reserve,
to be ready for instant use anywhere
in the world.”
There is not, it seems, even a realisa-
tion that in the event of global war,
the same consideration will apply as
affected the last global war, namely,
that the nation which is confined to
land strategy, leaving its opponents
mobility and free use of sea and air
to approach its flanks from any direc-
tion, to send their forces anywhere,
and draw resources from anywhere
on earth, will be the loser. Nato will,
in those circumstances, win if it repre-
sents the “unity, hope and courage”
of 450-million free people. But to
win its power must be applied through
fighting and economic forces which are
allowed to forget all national jealousies
and everything else except a common
military purpose planned by an uncom-
plicated command free to use its
initiative.
The conception of Nato as the be-all
and end-all of defence against Russian
attack is obviously unrealistic. The
nuclear weapon has been adopted as
the great deterrent against attack from
the East; but whatever it may be as a
deterrent, it may not, as Field-Marshal
Montgomery says, “be a good defence.”
The Nato countries form a remark-
ably small plot of earth in Western
Europe—roughly a quarter of the whole
of Europe. The distances are so short
that every inch is needed for defence
in depth. Indeed, if Russia were to feel
that the game were worth the candle
and suddenly struck against an unready
organisation, it paratroops could be at
the Pyrenees in a very few hours and
the nuclear-striking bases of the West
overrun before they could do much
damage.
ANY belief that the West has effective
nuclear striking-power which can
reach the Soviet Union’s industrial
heart in sufficient time to prevent a
military fait accompli in Western
Europe has yet to be proved. Once
the Nato countries were overrun the
war would resolve itself into a long-
distance duel between the United
States and Russia, while the Chinese
flooded Asia.
There is something peculiarly omin-
ous about the Russian proceedings over
Berlin in the light of the continual
provocations and the Kremlin’s time-
table.
’yuHATEVER hopes centre on the
conferences now under discussion,
the primary consideration must be that
Russia cannot be trusted save under
unquestionable safeguards. Every
major agreement which the Kremlin
made at the end of the war with its
allies was shamelessly broken, includ-
ing the agreement to treat the peace
settlements of occupied areas as a
mutual concern of all the allies.
Mr. Spaak, Secretary-General of
Nato, has said that there are within that
body “different shades of meaning and
various ideas as to the best tactics; but
all are agreed in President Eisen-
hower’s view that appeasement over
Berlin would be dishonorable and the
most dangerous course that could be
pursued.”
At the same time it is to be hoped
that behind the scenes sufficient pre-
cautions are being taken against
Russian trickery. Once Russia had
control of Western Germany, which it
could obtain in a few hours, using only
the troops it possesses in Eastern Ger-
many (which total 23 divisions) the
nuclear deterrent of the West would
lose much of its potency, since the
ruthless gang in the Kremlin would
think nothing of holding West Germany
—and France and Berlin —hostage
against the destruction of Russian
resources.
If Russian occupation of Western
Europe were achieved the use of the
nuclear deterrent would spell sentence
of death on the peoples of the occupied
countries.
It is to be hoped that Nato is able
to back its firmness with sufficient
defensive force. No deterrent is abso-
lute. Once the attractions of aggres-
sion become paramount, over the fear
of the deterrent, it is defence that is
needed. And if Field-Marshal Mont-
gomery speaks truly, defence is not
impressive in Western Europe.


WORLD WAR II RELIC


PLAIN ENGLISH
More Leprechaun Trouble
The Federal Labor caucus, in dealing
W'ith the Parliamentary-salaries issue, is
behaving as ever like an Irish conven-
tion of the fairies. The only variation
from the past seems to be that Itt Evatt
has abdicated and that the crowdie’s
leprechauns are now Messrs. Haylen and
Ward, who are making a raucous pretence
of not wanting the milk that has been put
out for them.
This is very embarrassing for their
reformed leader. The heads of the party
had long ago agreed with the Govern-
ment that any consideration of salaries
would be a non-party matter with every-
body free to vote as he wished. In coming
to this decision they had evidently for-
gotten that they were subject to decisions
from higher powers without, and find
themselves taken by the ear by Mr.
Chamberlain and his merry men of the
A.L.P. executive and ordered to break
faith.
The executive of caucus, therefore,
seems to have approved the rejection of
10 points of the report to which objection
was taken as “unacceptable and inde-
fensible in their present form.” Mr.
Calwell emphasised that the stress was on
the words “in their present form,” but
otherwise nobody seemed to be specific
as to what the detailed objections were
to. The leprechauns profess to object to
everything, and when Dr. Itt Evatt
criticised the objections but called for
“unity,” Leprechaun Haylen asked him,
“What sort of a leader are you?”
The caucus decided to take the deci-
sions to a press-conference, not to the
Government, and this gathering turned
out to be something like a meeting of
spectators at a Donnybrook hurling-
match with a visiting Belfast team.
The Hibernian atmosphere was so
marked that even the “Sydney Morning
Herald” became infected, and its sum-
mary of the result of the caucus debate
would have been worthy of the “Mullin-
gar Times” at its most Thackerayan : -
The Opposition claims to have grained a
surprise tactical advantage by forcing the
Government to take up the initiative.
This the Government has all the time
been blamed in caucus and the “S.M.H.”
for doing. In fact, the main pretext for
all the fuss was that the Cabinet pre-
cipitately agreed to the Richardson report
in to to.
It should be a lesson to the Govern-
ment, and much of the odium that has
fallen on the Ministry and Parliament
has been due to tactlessness and mis-
management.
The timing chosen for putting forward
the proposals was bad. There was no
reason why the whole matter should not
have stood until the Budget was brought
down and the Estimates for Parliament
debated in the ordinary way. The civil-
service Estimates nearly every year pro-
vide for rises for senior civil ser-
vants, and increases in their numbers,
involving many times the £170,000 in-
volved in the Parliamentary rises. But
no daily-newspaper critic or letter-writer
ever seems to rise to protest or even refer
to them.
The Government still has a tremendous
lot to learn about public relations. The
summaries of the report put forward
were in several particulars inaccurate or
insufficiently explained. It was not, for
instance, pointed out that members’ pre-
miums have more than paid for the cost
of pensions so far handed to ex-members.
It was not made clear that car-transport
would be available to ex-Ministers only
when they were going to public
ceremonies, and there were several other
points that were open to misconception
and strong criticism.
The matter needs a new approach.
If Parliamentarians are to be con-
sidered as public servants who receive
full-time pay, the matter should be put
on a regular basis. There should be
careful definition of their duties as mem-
bers for both the House and their con-
stituents. They should be required to
attend sittings without fail except upon
release by the House for particular
reasons.
Housing Misfire
So inept was the handling of the motion
of no-confidence in the Bolte Government
by the Labor Opposition in the Victorian
Assembly that the Liberals came out of
it with an enhanced reputation for their
housing policy, due chiefly to a strong,
well-reasoned and -documented defensive
speech by Horace Petty, the Minister for
Housing, whose Ministerial work prob-
ably is not as appreciated as it might be.
Although Clive Stoneham, the Oppo-
sition Leader, is a country member, he
made no telling reference to the need for
housing in the country, so the leader of
the Country party, Sir Herbert Hyland,
rather angrily supplied the deficiency him-
self, and when his ire had subsided led
his party to the Government side of the
House to help defeat the motion by 44
votes to 16.
The Country party is at present playing
political speaks with the Bolte Govern-
ment ; but Hyland’s team could have
been very embarrassed indeed if Stone-
ham had embraced country towns in his
motion, especially if the situation in some
is as difficult as Hyland maintained.
As it was, the context of Stoneham’s
attack left the impression that the housing
needs of the country would be even more
neglected by a Labor Government than
they allegedly have been by Bolte’s. Part
of the blame, at least, for this lack of per-
ception was due to his deputy, Lovegrove,
who was reported in the lobbies to have
spent a month on research, marshalling
the Labor facts. They were almost
exclusively devoted to Melbourne.
It seemed more than likely that Love-
grove’s long labor had been reported in
good time on the grapevine to Petty,
because the Minister was able to cite
facts in reply off the cuff, including the
rent-rebate system for poorer families
(which costs £250,000 a year), the special
apartments being built for pensioners at
275. a week (and less if they live alone),
and, most important of all, the spending
of £2 million a year on slum-clearance.
It is true, as Stoneham said, that the
Housing Commission last year built fewer
houses than in any recent year since
1949-50, but housing funds now are being
channelled into the co-operative societies,
and the prefabricated houses being built
in fiercely competitive conditions by
private firms (and some of which are
splendid, small modern houses) can be
bought on deposits as low as £650.
The U.K. Example
The British Budget sets a stimulating
example for the Commonwealth’s new
Treasurer, Harold Holt, not so much
because of the extent of its concessions
but because of its choice of subjects for
relief.
For the individual there is an income-
tax cut (ranging from 9d. on the standard
rate of Bs. 6d. in the £ to 6d. on the lower
rates). Sales-tax reductions of one-sixth
on all high-rate goods, and particularly
on household luxuries such as television,
jewellery and sporting-goods, should
stimulate flagging sales. The twopence
off the pint of beer is a gambit which
in the Old Country has never failed to
go down with thirsty electors.
The really satisfying features of
British policy are its attention to the
needs of industry and investment, which
strongly contrasts with Canberra policy.
In Canberra the Government is never
quite sure in making its financial arrange-
ments whether it is Socialist or not, and
its mind always seems to be on the float-
ing Labor vote at Budget-time rather
than on the likely stimulating effects of
concessions given in the proper quarters.
The drastic British measures taken
after the Macmillan Government
assumed office to curb inflation and
attract U.S. investment have been fol-
lowed by a regular regimen of tonic
measures to stimulate capital-outlay and
development of British trade.
Not only has the tight-clutched hand
of Socialistic method been taken off
capital-investment which, until a few
months ago, was very strictly controlled,
but life-giving injections have been
administered to large-scale private enter-
prise which are having their effects.
The result is being shown in the
remarkable manner in which the British
economy has held-up during the period
of depression of world prices and in
which the unemployment position is'
being rapidly improved except in one or
two industries.
The investment allowances on capital-
expenditure provided in the Budget—2o
per cent, on new plant and machinery
and 10 per cent, on industrial building
—are a brainchild of Mr. Rab Butler.
Combined with the effect of the sales-tax


reduction, they should prove a consider-
able help to industry at a time of keen
world-wide competition.
Mr. Holt might take a good look at
the principles of British budgeting.
Further relief and assistance for com-
panies in the taxation field, removal of
the payroll-tax and generally a more
liberal outlook to accord with his party’s
professed policy of free enterprise would
do more in the next Budget for Aus-
tralian development than concessions in
income-tax to individuals (which is low
anyway, having regard to the standards of
individual living).
The Government has an example of
what can be done at home in the progress
towards modernisation and stability and
expansion which has been made in the
New South Wales coal-industry since the
coalowners were encouraged to mechanise
by applying to their business similar taxa-
tion allowances as were granted as a
matter of course to other developmental
mining.
Sydney Harbor Crossings
For several years D. R, Carter, a Sydney
engineer, has been advocating a system
of prefabricated tunnels as a part-solution
for Sydney’s trans-harbor traffic problem.
Briefly, his plan consists of a concrete
tube resting on the bed of the harbor —
the tube to be constructed in sections
which can be floated to the site, sunk
into position by flooding and then
pumped dry.
Mr. Carter has supplied Premier Cahill
and Highways Minister Renshaw with
full details of his scheme. Judging by
the length of time he has had to wait
for replies to his letters, his submissions
have been given very careful considera-
tion. Judging by the substance of the
replies he has received they have scarcely
been looked at.
Two chief reasons have been given
for rejecting the Carter scheme —the rock
below the harbor is not suitable for
tunnelling and present commitments pre-
clude spending the sum the tunnels would
require. As to the first objection, no
tunnelling in the sense of boring through
rock is required ; as to the second,
Carter’s suggestion was that the work
should be done on a franchise-and-toll
basis for a limited number of years, so
no Government money would be required
and the tunnels would ultimately revert
to the State free. The only public ex-
penditure required would be the costs
of a detailed examination of the scheme.
In the past 12 months Carter has been
trying to convince the N.S.W. Govern-
ment that long-term planning for trans-
harbor traffic should at least include
examination of the tunnel plan. So far
it seems merely to have been rejected
without examination.
Carter’s point is that building develop-
ments on the harborfront will in the
next few years complicate the problem
tremendously—Opera House foundations
and Darling Point development ill us-
trated this even during the time he was
waiting for a reply to his letter written to
the Minister for Highways last September.
On March 31 the Minister replied that,
having regard to the two extra lanes on
the Harbor Bridge and the proposed
high-level bridge at Gladesville, it was
not proposed at present to make any
detailed investigation for any crossing
east of the Harbor Bridge.
However, the question of further provi-
sion for cross-harbor traffic will receive
consideration from time to time in the
light of experience of use of the additional
facilities now being provided.
In other words, in several years’ time,
when the present projects have been com-
pleted, they will then be examined to see
whether it might not have been better to
do something else.
No wonder Carter calls this policy “the
continued practice of building for past
conditions only.”
"Respected Lama"
[A Tibetan Tale]
Sir Garfield Barwick, while denounc-
ing the Communist actions in Lhasa as
the supression of a revolt by “singularly
ruthless and inhuman means,” might
have added to the gaiety of nations by
producing the Peking account of the
affair as contained in a supposed
correspondence between the fugitive
Dalai Lama and General Tan Kuan-san,
the Chinese Commissar in control of
Tibet, between March 10-17.
These letters were printed in the official
Peking press at the end of March, accom-
panied by a cloud of resolutions by
Tibetan cities and monasteries in which
they expressed “hatred of the seditious
reactionary clique and the warm love of
Tibetans for the Motherland and China
and our beloved Mao Tse-tung.”
It was set-out that the Dalai Lama,
having decided that he wished to attend
a theatrical performance in the Commu-
nist military auditorium in Lhasa on
March 10, “a clique of traitors spread
rumors that the Chinese command
would detain him,” and assembled on
this excuse outside his palace, besieged
him as the opening gambit in an armed
rebellion.
The correspondence began:
General Tan to “Respected Dalai Lama,’’
March 10: Regretting that the latter had
been put in “very great difficulties due to
intrigues and provocations by reaction-
aries,” wherefore it “may be advisable if
you do not come. Best regards.”
Dalai Lama to “Dear Comrade Political
Commissar Tan,” March 11: Says he “was
unable to come owing to obstruction by
people ecclesiastical and secular . . .
instigated by a few bad elements who did
not know the facts” and that “this has
put me to indescribable shame” and “I am
greatly upset and at a loss what to do,”
because “reactionary elements are carrying
out activities endangering me under pretext
of securing my safety.” Expressed himself
overjoyed at Tan's attitude, asked him for
“any directives” and looks forward to
“meeting him when things settle down.”
Tan to Dalai Lama: “The reactionaries
have become so audacious as to have
openly carried out military provocations,
and posted machine-guns and armed
reactionaries along the highway north of
the Dalai Lama’s palace, thus seriously
disrupting the security of national defence
communications.” And rebels have been
told to withdraw—or else. “Please let me
know your views.”
Dalai Lama to Tan, March 12: “The
unlawful actions of the reactionary clique
break my heart.” He has told the local
Communist Government to “dissolve the
illegal People’s Conference,” and with-
draw the wicked reactionaries who are
making “a pretext of protecting him.”
But he reports that this morning Tibetan
Army men fired a few shots on the high-
way, but caused no serious disturbance.
And, “please give me frankly any instruc-
tions you have for me.”
Tan to Dalai Lama, March 13: “The
traitorous activities of a reactionary clique
of the upper strata of Tibet have grown
to intolerable proportions. These indivi-
duals, in collusion with foreigners, have
engaged in traitorous activities for quite
some time.” And the Central Government
has dealt with them with magnanitmity.
The Central Government now intended
to “assume responsibility for putting
down the rebellion and meting-out severe
punishment to the traitors if the locals
will not do it”; all this to “safeguard the
solidarity and unification of the Mother-
land.” On March 17 the Lama looked
forward to visiting Peking!
These letters were not issued until
the bird had flown. The Communists
were obviously at that stage certain that
they could lay hands on him and put
him where he could neither confirm nor
deny their authenticity.
But he turned-up at the Indian border
after a miraculous and well-organised
trek along with his mother and members
of his Cabinet, announcing that the only
alternative to being given political
asylum would be suicide to prevent him-
self falling into the hands of General Tan.
His behavior gives the lie to the whole
correspondence—especially since some of
it appears to date from after he left
Lhasa. But the exposure will only be
greeted with a shrug by the inventors
of bacterial-war stories and by the con-
trollers of Hungary who lured hundreds
of Hungarians back to that country under
promise of amnesty and then shot them.
The incident illustrates some of the
difficulties which will face the Big Three
of the West at the Summit Conference
in securing an agreement with the
U.S.S.R. that can be guaranteed trust-
worthy.
Churches and S.-p.
Instead of the proposed off-the-course
tote three alternate measures were recom-
mended to the Victorian Government
by the annual conference of the
Church of Christ in Tasmania and Vic-
toria. They were enlargement of the
special gaming-squad of police, the with-
drawal of legality from the “press”
agencies and imprisonment for s.-p.
bookies for a second offence.
The first and third recommendations
already are operating, and making the
press agencies illegal would be footling,
since the overwhelming number of little
bookies don’t subscribe to them.
Victorian churches have been ill-
informed and, worse, emotional in their
approach to the off-course tote.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
C'mash-hit of the summer months
with Melbourne teenagers (in-
cluding bodgies and widgies) was Ameri-
can evangelist Dr. Billy Graham. Putting
religion over to the younger masses is
not so hard when the preacher really
digs their lingo. Samples:
I heard of a cat who went to church and
said to the minister: “Dad, you really
blasted me this morning—you were real
cool, Dad, cool; I mean cool, Dad.
That jive of yours so beat me that I put
twenty dollars in the plate.” And the
minister replied, “Crazy man, crazy.”
It nearly brought down the controversial
roof of the Myer Music Bowl—and per-
haps provided a lesson for our more stiff-
necked clergy.—“lnwyt.”
♦j+
“Tasma, jun.”: When Abel Tasman, a
descendant of the Hollander who found
Tasmania, inspects the island he’ll find
commemoration of his surname in scores
of Christian-names. Parents continue to
call their sons “Tasman” (usually abbre-
viated to “Tas”); the girls get “Tasma.”
With the exception of Victoria, Tasmania
is the only Australian State whose title
parents can grab for a new infant.
*** ***
“Roger Mike”: To soothe his heavy
hangover, his understanding wife brought
my mate Joe an early-morning cup of tea.
“For goodness’ sake don’t stir so hard!”
the ingrate muttered as she rattled a
spoon against the side of the cup.
❖ * ❖
“Ceg”: A card in the bar of the
bowling-club at Queenscliff (Vic.), the
fishing port, announces that old fisher-
men never die—they simply smell that
way. Old ships never die, either, they
simply go to Hong Kong to be broken-up.
The ocean-going tug Inglis has passed
through Melbourne heads near Queens-
cliff with the 823-ton Woniora and the
676-ton Port Waikato attached to a half-
mile tow-rope. When the three ships
straightened-up outside The Rip the
weather was calm and a steady four-
knots were being logged. It’s only 7000
miles to Hong Kong, so that even if
good weather prevails those on board can
look forward to a nice long sea-trip on
the slowest boats, ever, to China.
❖ ❖
“Tott-em”: Heaven bless that live-
wire correspondent at Tottenham
(N.S.W.) whose items hit the news in
Sydney newspapers and radio-stations!
I’d never heard of the place until that
scribe got going. Looking -up the
.reference-books I find Tottenham is 371
miles, 18 chains west of Sydney, and
has a small population. But it’s unique,
judging by the news-flashes. In long
droughts the grass fails and the roads
are dusty— at Tottenham. When the
rains come, the crops grow and the roads
get muddy; the creek overflows—at
Tottenham. Lightning often accompanies
a thunderstorm, there ; there are frosts
in winter. Could we attract overseas
tourists to make a pilgrimage to see
Tottenham?
“Crick”: Don’t know whether they
could be classed as eccentric or not, but
I know at least 20 Melbournites who took
no part, either as bit-players or extras,
in the film “On The Beach.”
"Im sorry about this, padre. One of these ladies is under a
slight misapprehension”
“Quicky”: No connoisseur of women’s
gloves, I was attracted to the newspaper
advertisement of same by the list of avail-
able colors: Salmon, Marmalade, Pump-
kin Bone, Kelly Green, Seaweed and
No - color Green. They don’t seem to
go in any more for the color poor rela-
tions used to wear in novels: Grubby.
“Dune”: Just as well for the pen-nib
manufacturers (B. l/4/’59) that some
South African schools ban the use of the
bail-point and fountain-pen. We are told
that the Tasmanian Government is ex-
perimenting with a handwriting which
will displace old-fashioned copperplate
with its fine upstrokes and firm down-
strokes, and be more suitable for ball-
point pens, and much faster. All other
back in a toy barrow: “I prayed Him if
1 got a new barrer for my birthday I'd
give Him first ride.”
♦> ♦>
‘'Judee”: A barbecue in drizzling rain
can be a dismal affair, but the entertain-
ment committee of the national con-
vention of Apex Clubs in Newcastle
(N.S.W.) made such an outing quite
pleasurable. The party was at Croudace
Bay, where, surprisingly, more than 1400
men, women and children turned-up.
Visitors’ cars were arranged roughly in
the form of a circle; as each drove
slowly past, cooks and stewards, the only
ones braving the rain, passed cooked
steaks, sausages and hot drinks through
the windows.
Australian States except Queensland are
said to be fiddling with a similar idea,
and going all-out for speed. I don’t know
about other States, but in N.S.W. the
children are first taught to print in a sort
of italic style, and not until several
grades up are they taught running-
writing. Soon, it seems, they will all be
using ball-point pens, and will no longer
know anything about pothooks or such-
like. Even we oldsters will forget the
advertisement which has appeared in
almost every English-speaking country :
They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl and the Waverley
Pen.
❖ ❖ *
“Ailsey”: Mrs. H. Plumb, of Cessnock
(N.S.W.), has a tablecloth at least a cen-
tury old. It has been handed down
through three generations. The cloth, of
Irish linen, has never been used!
❖ <* *>
“Orion”: The Sunday-school staff was
despairing over the disappearance of the
statuette of the Redeemer from the table,
in the anteroom when a rumbling on
the brick path outside materialised into
a kindergarten boy wheeling the statuette


Sydney’s Bent Street won’t be the
same now that the century - old
Government Printing Office has been
exiled to the palatial premises in the
green-belt and great open spaces of
Ultimo. But hallowed memories remain.
Although my old dad was not the original
of Too’eys’ “I alius ’as one at eleven,” he
had faith in the therapeutic value of
herbs, and subscribed to the doctrine. In
Sydney’s steam-tram days it was just a
skip across Phillip Street from the side-
door of the old Printing Office to a private
bar of the Metropole, where, at 11 a.m.,
a jorum of hops sustained the supervisor
of the machines that churned out Govern-
ment Gazettes and other comics. The
ghosts of the old-timers, comps., machi-
nists and the rest, and most of all the
old boys who stoked the boilers in the
basement, wet and stacked the newsprint,
and carefully tended the manual fire-
engine housed in the back lane, will miss
the old haunts. No doubt they’ll find
a meeting-place for their spectral union
in the now non-existent Devonshire
Street cemetery. Keep one on ice for me,
boys!—“X. Cuseme.”
♦2* ♦!*
“RKH:IG”: Intending visitors needn’t
be apprehensive of American menus, but
they may be appalled at the manner of
consumption. In San Francisco, over
chilled pineapple-juice, I commented to
my host on the similarity of his modest
three-bedroom brick home and way of
life to my own. Comparison of our ways
quickly turned to contrast when I was
presented with my breakfast of two fried
eggs, bacon, toast, flapjacks and maple
syrup all on one plate , and a solitary
fork the only grazing-tool in sight.
♦2* ❖
“P.Q.M.C.”: Motion-picture exhibitors
are getting catty on posters for wide-
screen spectacles: “Remember, You
Can’t See This Picture On Your Tiny TV,
Screen At Home!”
❖
“Vic Timm”: Surely, I thought,
escaping from drowning in the surf should
have constituted the year’s close call ;
but no —a mere two weeks later I was
taking a girl home to a Sydney beach
suburb via toast - rack tram some time
after midnight. A bodgie and his girl
got on and sat next to us. The tram
rattled on, gradually disgorging occu-
pants, until in our compartment there
was a chap with a bottle in his pocket
snoozing opposite, the bodgie and his
girl, and me and my gal. Deciding it
was time to go, the bodgie ushered his
lady-love out (on the wrong side) and
then turned to deliver a loud oration,
in which he something-well hoped he’d
never something-well see you something
somethings again. Immediately I looked
at my companion ; not so much as a
flicker of an eyelid betrayed what I
imagined she was thinking. The bodgie
got out, the tram started to move ; then,
from the roadway, he began all over
again. Fed-up, I gave him a curt wave,
as if to say, “Go jump in the lake” or
perhaps a stronger equivalent. He obliged
AND NOW, OUR COMMENTATOR...
[SESTINA]
I've been giving consideration to the subject of salaries
Recommended by the committee set-up by Parliament,
Some say, to protect politicians from poverty,
Others, to treat them as managerial businessmen.
But how does this fit the idea of democracy ?
And how represent the feeling of the electorate?
Now, why can’t we secure a mandate from the electorate ?
They, after all, will be paying the salaries;
That is the best way to do things in a democracy,
Not leave decisions so weighty to Parliament
Or a committee of millionaire businessmen
Totally unacquainted with genuine poverty.
I say, if they wish to ameliorate poverty,
First let them study the starving electorate ;
Give all the people the status of businessmen,
Give the whole mob managerial salaries —
Then ask the voters: Well, what about Parliament?
We know what the answer would be, from democracy.
Let me put before you the ideal of democracy :
It is governed by men dedicated to poverty,
Without any roof to sleep under but Parliament,
Door-to-door canvassing crusts in the electorate,
Satisfied to serve the community without salaries
For the pleasure of treading on the faces of businessmen.
But what do we find? These men want to be businessmen,
Dragging efficiency into democracy,
Encouraging better-class men with high salaries,
Insuring their future against threats of poverty
For any resistance they make to the electorate
Or to the Press, in the interest of Parliament :
It’s not that we're anxious to serve in the Parliament,
Or spit in the face of benevolent businessmen,
Or go kissing babies around the electorate,
Or work on the practical details of democracy ;
We all feel unworthy of the pure life of poverty,
Or to live insecure on inadequate salaries;
The Envoy
But we want men in Parliament to uphold democracy,
Not working like businessmen, but dedicated to poverty,
And serving the electorate without any salaries.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


by jumping back on the tram, bouncing
into the compartment and rushing straight
at me, both fists ready. Whether the tram
lurched or whether his pugilistic ability
was horribly inferior to his rich vocabu-
lary, the blow grazed my chin lightly ;
1 got up and pushed him back hard on
to the seat opposite. Then the snoozer
woke-up ; he roared “You bodgie!” and,
grabbing hold of his shirt with both
hands, forced him out. Later, when I
got the girl home, we were sitting on
the lounge. She tapped me on the shin
with her high-heeled shoe and said,
“Does that hurt?” I said, “Yes.” (It did.)
“Well,” she remarked, “I gave him two
of those, only much harder!”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Scotty”: No television up our way
yet, but a pony-tailed patient passed the
time very well with a row-mance in the
maternity ward, and had to be forcibly
“Wed better go—it's IX to XII .”
parted from it, wailing that she “just had
to find out what happened to her”—while
Number Three made his entry into the
world.
*** *** ♦♦♦
“Bicky”: Comment on talkers (or lack
of) in a racing-stable (B. 24/3/’59), re-
calls a visit a friend and I made to a
training - establishment in Melbourne.
During our inspection of the large team
of thoroughbreds we lingered outside the
box of a well-known steed, chatting
about its performances on the Turf.
Our discussion was cut short by a
strapper working in a box opposite:
“You fellows run a risk, standing around
talking in this place ; someone’s liable
to come along and slap a saddle on your
back.”
“RKH:IG”: Safety-conscious Austra-
lians are missing thrills of this age of
flight which are apparently common to
passengers on small American airlines.
Taxi-ing to the runway at Atlanta, Ga.,
in a spastic old DC3, our swarthy skipper
was informed by the tower that our tail-
light wasn’t burning. We were soon
parked back at the gate. Repairs required
the services of both pilot and co-pilot,
who disembarked, leavings the motors
running. Lusty thumps were soon felt
from the stern. Evidently our anxieties
at the prospect of pilotless flight were
shared by the remaining crew-member
—the throaty motors were rapidly shut-
off after some exploratory finger-stabbing
by the hostess.
& ❖ ♦>
“Schizo”: Whenever I hear of a Par-
liamentarian traipsing abroad on official
business accompanied by his wife,
psychiatrists come to
mind. During the
box -on with the
Nips, one of the dan
recommended that,
to forestall a com-
plete mental break-
down, an airman be
transferred pronto
from his unit in New
Guinea to one near
Melbourne so that
he could live at
home and enjoy the
intimate affections of
his wife. Come to
think of it, the idea
was sound, and its
universal application
would certainly have
shortened the war.
❖ ❖
“Peg”: Some time
ago, at the Royal
Hotel, Queenscliff
(Vic.), dwelt a
white - cockatoo (B.
25/3/’59) who could
talk, but not much.
When a customer
entered the bar he
was greeted by a
cheery “Hello,” and
that, with one or
two other words, was the extent
of his repertoire for the general
run of consumers. If, however, you
happened to be a friend of the bar-
man he would lend you a soda-water
syphon. The drill was cautiously to
approach the bird’s cage, point the spout
of the syphon, and press the handle just
enough to make a slight hissing noise,
whereupon up went cocky’s crest, and
a most surprising string of language
would emerge, concluding with: “Get to
Hell, you !”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“8.A.K.”: Noticed the professional
touch that has crept into mundane re-
tailing? “Guineas” used to be the exclu-
sive property of doctors, lawyers, music-
teachers and yearling racehorses. With
television, the long - quid became the
possession of TV-salesmen not, of
course, because “two-hundred guineas”
sounds less than “two - hundred and
ten pounds.” And now at least one
lawnmower salesman has adopted the
trend—and been able to undercut a rival
by offering a model for 48-guineas while
the other’s machine costs £5O Bs. I’m
waiting for the vogue to reach the super-
car market. Still, there wouldn’t be so
very much difference in the price between
£3OOO and 3000 guineas. I could nearly
afford that —the difference.
>J*
“Pat”: It was just on midnight when
I caught a taxi from our station. The
young man with whom I shared it gave
an address that was closer than mine and
the driver naturally went there first. But
as we approached the galaxy of cars and
blazing lights outside his home, my
fellow-passenger waved the driver on:
“Looks like the discussion-group's still
going. My wife doesn’t like me coming
in before they're finished,” he said. “You
can take me back to the station, and I’ll
walk it.”
THE TRUE BELIEVERS
“One of the chief troubles confronting
Hollywood is its too-eager readiness to believe
its own extravagant publicity.” —English film
magazine.
When ten-thousand feet of tripe
Is projected on the screen,
The duty of producer and director
Is not to have a gripe
On the defects they have seen —
You don’t drink vinegar when you’ve
got nectar !
To convince themselves it’s great —
For an Oscar good enough —
In praise of which the whole wide
world must shout, it
Will suffice in both dilate
On the highly-colored guff
Which Publicity’s already said about it.
Should the talent-scouts unearth
Some well-upholstered blonde
Whose only talent’s measured by the
ruler
That they , run around her girth,
Need her studio despond
Because of dialogue she’s just a
drooler,
Lacking any brain to learn,
In comedy a drone,
And in dramatic roles an irritation?
To confirm her worth they turn
To their hokus-megaphone
Which dubbed her: “The Century’s
Sex Sensation !”
Oh, the studio-set, it's clear,
Is a place of make-believe,
Of gloss and hoax, deceptions and
illusions ;
Well, in such an atmosphere,
It is easy to conceive
That executives might fall for the
effusions
Which they’ve ordered to be penned.
Is it, then, too much to call
An industry with such a set-up
screw ey,
Whose moguls love to spend
Colossal sums, and all
Get blotto on their potent home-
brewed hooey?
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


It Becomes Colossal
THE LAWSON LEGEND
By CECIL MANN
Henry Lawson grows in
imaginative stature, in
literary strength, in
national affection, from
year to year. We are watching
the building of a legend. .
At least it seems so, taking
a Sydney view of the pheno-
menon. This Sydney view,
when you think of Australia,
is always likely to be mislead-
ing ; but certainly from here,
in this 1959, the Lawson
Legend does seem to grow
strongly, almost from day to
day.
Already there is no stronger,
more substantial, or more
justified other legend in our
national folklore. It promises
to resemble England’s Bardola-
try, with a good dash of
William Tefl. Just about every
day, it would seem, something
or other, somewhere in the
land, is printed, published or
written on or about Henry.
There are the annual pil-
grimages ; and, among other
examples, at least two hands
that I’ve heard of are at present
engaged on full-sized bio-
graphies of Lawson and
about time. As one taking a
sporting interest in the Lawson
Legend, and with affectionate
regard for Henry, I wish the
biographers good luck, and all
success, and a lavish handout
of aspirin.
We have also had, fairly re-
cently, such things as Marjorie
Pizer’s admirable little book
The Men Who Made Australia,
including some striking Law-
son work not otherwise avail-
able in book-form.
There also comes to mind
Lyle Blair’s The Selected
Works of Henry Lawson,
chosen and glossed for an
American audience and pub-
lished by the Michigan State
University Press (claimed to
be the first Lawson book pub-
lished in the benighted States ;
and quite good, too, though
how the compiler could pass
over the “Ballad of the
Drover” in representing
Henry’s verse, and what an
American audience might make
of some of the unglossed Aus-
tralianisms in things like
Henry’s great and charac-
teristic story “The Bush
Undertaker,” I hereby happily
consign to the quiz-session).
As an aside on this foreign
interest in Henry (an in-
terest which would have
specially delighted him, and
which makes its own consider-
able contribution to the Law-
son Legend), here now, at this
very moment of writing, in
comes the Sydney “Sunday
Telegraph” quoting visiting
Russian journalist Victor
Maevsky to the effect that
Henry Lawson is “among the
most widely read poets in
Moscow” —on which, as a
conclusive and reassuring
addendum, we have
had Henry himself
testifying that J. F.
Archibald “always
took the Sydney
‘Daily Telegraph’
for reliable news.”
These foreign
builders of the
Lawson Legend
date back 50 years
or so, to a literary
French professor
writing enthusiasti-
cally about Henry
as a discovery and
comparing him
with Maupassant
and they date even
beyond that. A
comparatively re-
cent one has been
the translator of
Henry into
Hebrew ; and per-
haps all such
foreign building of the Lawson
Legend does something to-
wards refuting the A. G.
Stephens finding on Henry
that “Much of his work
remains to Australia; very
little to the world.”
Perhaps, though, even if he
was wildly wrong, or wrong-
headed, in some of his Lawson
findings, A.G. was, in a sense,
right in that one. What could
a translator into Hebrew or
Russian make of Henry’s Aus-
tralian idioms and colloquial-
isms, some of them already so
obsolescent that they have to
be defined even for Austra-
lians? (And, among other
similar things I’d like to know,
can anyone tell me what is the
story behind a Lawson passing
reference to “The Bells That
Lay on Campbell’s Wharf”?)
Anyway, there would seem
to be ample cultivating of the
Lawson Legend here to make
it secure, without foreign aid.
One thinks of such other fairly
recent notable things as the
fine opening essay on “The
Craftsmanship of Henry Law-
son” in A. A. Phillips’s The
Australian Tradition, and an
excellent essay on Henry’s
formative background—“ La-
wson’s Eurunderee” — by John
Tierney (“Brian James”), which
I lately read, and which, in-
directly but effectively, utterly
demolishes the A. G. Stephens
hobby - horseback contention
that Henry had only a bit of
a tramp out west as his bush
experience (if this wasn’t
already self-demolished).
And now —the latest in what
could be a long list —we have
Colin Roderick’s Henry Law-
son : Fifteen Stories, with, for
really good measure, his
brochure Companion to that
book, both of them deservedly
very neatly printed by Angus
and Robertson.
'T'hese two Roderick compi-
lations are the main reason
for this present closer look at
the Lawson Legend ; and be-
fore any Devil’s Advocate can
come barging up to the Bar-
table (or bar-counter), let it
be prayed for both of them
that their numbers may be-
come legion and their fame
wide in the land. Indeed Colin
Roderick would be doing a
notable service if he could now
similarly treat other Australian
writers worthy of the treat-
ment.
His two books are good ones
for readers in general, or, in
particular, for anyone with
special Australian or Lawson
interests. I certainly learnt a
fair bit from them, and so, I
think, would most other people.
But their real value would
possibly be in schools, though
whether those who suffer little
children, and bigger ones,
would these times approve of
such a method of teaching is
something outside my kennel.
At all events, that is what the
book and brochure seem to
be aimed at —to provide a
ready-made year’s course in
Australian literature, or at the
least such a course in Lawson.
For Henry they do the
sound service (though Henry,
I’m afraid, would not think
so) of putting the emphasis
on his prose. The chosen 15
stories are a reasonably repre-
sentative lot—the selecting per-
haps conditioned and restricted
by a schools-use aim. They are
arranged to represent Henry’s
background, his humor, his
pathos, and what is called his
“sympathy.” There are other
rich golden-holes to be found
by a little prospecting in the
Lawson claim: a schools-use
aim may have blocked them
out.
The Companion brochure
glosses loads of Lawsonisms,
and is the essential schools-use
key. On all 15 stories it pro-
vides Roderick commentaries
and notes, with school-exercise
questions added. And of
course it and the book are most
effective contributions to the
Lawson Legend.
A nd so, overall, the nourish-
ing rains fall, the sunshine
spreads, the tillers till, and the
Legend daily grows.
It is a grand and splendid
phenomenon to be beholding,
if not even a miracle. I, per-
sonally, happily accept it.
Everybody, it seems to me,
accepts it. Colin Roderick,
naturally, accepts it, and con-
siderably propagates it, with
(i Continued on page 45)


POLITICAL POINTS
Is the A.L.P. legally dead? Brisbane
“Telegraph,” speaking of Labor’s attitude
towards the salaries report, said that
caucus would consider “a recommenda-
tion from the party executors.”
• •
Determined not to allow Arthur Cal-
well to hold the mixed-metaphor title
(B. 8/4/’59) for long, Dan Curtin came
out with this one last Wednesday:
“We find Australia getting tied, neck
and crop, to the huge American trusts
which are riding rough-shod over Aus-
tralians.”
• •
Although many members have raised
objections to parts of the Richardson
report, especially Ministerial expenses
and pensions, hardly a voice has been
heard criticising the rates suggested for
ordinary members. Nor have they
objected to the proposed higher
allowances. The report says that elec-
torate allowances include a considerable
expenditure for donations and subscrip-
tions to sporting clubs, charitable
organisations and so on —one member
told the committee he subscribed to 76 of
these—and that in many cases this
amounts to political blackmail.
Apparently members are prepared to
gc on paying this blackmail, but expect
to get it back from the public purse. This
is quite wrong. There are three ways of
looking at this expenditure. Either it is
given freely by the member, in which
case it is his own concern ; or it is paid
to help him nurse his electorate, in which
case the taxpayer should not be expected
to subsidise the sitting member to the
disadvantage of other candidates.
The third explanation—that it has be-
come the custom to regard the member
as fair game—is covered by the report’s
use of the term “political blackmail.”
If members feel this way about it they
should have the courage to make their
feelingj known in their electorate.
• •
The key seat in the Westralian elections
turned out to be Murchison, wherein
J. P. S. Burt (Lib.) replaced E. O’Brien
(Lab.). The possibility of this result
doesn’t seem to have entered the heads
of political writers before the poll,
though in view of the Federal win by
Peter Browne in Kalgoorlie—a Labor
seat for 36 years—it was always on the
cards. Burt comes to his new job with
experience in business on the Murchison
and Cue, close knowledge of, and family
connections with, the pastoral industry,
experience in mining and in mining
centres. On the civic side he is chairman
of the Cue Road Board.
• •
Despite all the outcry, Canberra M.P.s
are not the top-scorers in the British
Commonwealth in the salaries-and-
allowances game. Canadian M.P.s and
Senators get the equivalent of £A3670
sessional allowance, plus about £9OO ex-
penses. Ministers get the same, plus
£6870 salary, plus £9OO car-allowance —•
total £12,340. The Prime Minister gets
an extra £4500, total £16,840. Members’
sessional allowances were doubled three
years ago. The Leader of the Opposition
gets the same as a Minister.
• •
TV will probably be extended to
country areas in N.S.W. and Victoria,
and possibly to Canberra, by the end
of this year. Federal Cabinet is expected
to decide within the next two or three
weeks. Chief problem is whether TV-
stations in the capitals should be allowed
to establish satellite stations in country
towns, or whether locally-owned and
-controlled stations should be opened. A
strong section of Cabinet is inclined to-
wards the latter view, but there’s doubt
whether there would be sufficient adver-
tising potential outside the capitals to
sustain commercial country TV.
• •
‘'Mugga Way”: Even such an austere
and Republican journal as the “New
York Times” is now publishing articles
referring to the “lame-duck’’ President.
These refer in part to Ike’s health and in
part to the fact that his second and last
term is now half-finished, so that his
political influence is waning. It is only
14 months or so to the conventions
which will select the candidates and about
18 months to the election. In normal
times the world wouldn’t worry much
about a President with a staff looking
round for more secure posts and a Con-
gress taking less and less notice of his
requests, but in the present international
tension, with firm and long-range deci-
sions needed, the weaknesses of the Presi-
dential system and of reliance on an
ageing occupant are disturbingly apparent.
• •
[From Canberra]
The Parliamentary Privileges Committee last
week adroitly side-stepped any possible repeti-
tion of the events of 1955, when two Sydney
men were jailed by the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment for breach-of-privilege. They had before
them charges by Deputy-Government Whip
George Pearce that John Sommerville Smith
was guilty of a breach-of-privilege because of
things he had circulated about Pearce—chiefly
that Pearce was a professional lobbyist and,
as such, should be dismissed from Parliament.
After Jim Killen had withdrawn from the
committee because of things he had said about
J.S.S. last year, it gob down to seeing just how
Smith’s accusations affected Pearce’s ability to
carry out his duties as a Parliamentarian.
The answer was a lemon —the accusations
didn’t affect Pearce at all and, therefore, there
was no breach-of-privilege.
Members on both sides of the House sighed
with relief; those who were present in 1955
don’t want ever to see a repetition of circum-
stances where they have to sentence a man
to jail from the floor of the House.
J.S.S. lost no time in making himself heard
again after the committee had reported. On
the same night he claimed in Brisbane that
he had been offered a bribe of £30,000 not to
appear before the committee and another of
£5OOO to make an appearance. Next day
he sought a reconvening of the Richardson
Salaries Committee, so he could tell them how
it would be easy for a politician to earn up
to £30,000 a year through contacts he had
outside Parliament.
OLD A.L.P. COURTESY
“After you, Eddie.”
“No—after you, Bert—I insist!”


What’s become of the N.S.W.G.R.
slogan—The railway is the safe way?,
• •
Press photographs from time to time
show British Prime Minister Macmillan
having a glass of beer with the regular
patrons of the corner pub or the village
inn. The impression generally given is
that this is one of Mac’s methods of
keeping in touch with public opinion
and of selling his Government to the
ordinary man. Apparently the results
aren’t all one-sided —the locals have been
doing some talking, too. Last week’s
U.K. Budget provided for a reduction in
excise equivalent to twopence on a pint
of beer.
• •
Political events in Tasmania moved
swiftly to a climax after Cabinet decided
to ask for the resignation of the
Treasurer, Dr. Turnbull. Turnbull said
in effect that if they wanted him out
they’d have to throw him out, so, making
allowances for the politeness of official
procedure, thrown-out he was.
Turnbull’s dismissal placed the Govern-
ment in the untenable position of having
to rely on his continued support to re-
main in office, so on Thursday Premier
Reece asked the Administrator, Sir
Stanley Burbury, for a dissolution. This
was granted and polling day was fixed
for May 2.
Premier Reece’s reason for the
Treasurer’s dismissal —accepted by Cabi-
net and caucus —is that he twice walked
out of Cabinet meetings and refused to
attend a third meeting when summoned
to do so. Turnbull alleges that there is
only one reason for his removal —“I
stood in the way of the transfer of the
lottery-licence to private individuals.”
• •
A by-election for the Mulgrave seat
in the Queensland Assembly, vacant
through the death of R. H. Watson, will
be held on June 6, nominations closing
on May 15. Mulgrave was a Labor seat
before the last election but Watson won
it for the Country party in a three-
cornered contest with the A.L.P. and
Q.L.P.
• •
In spite of the publicity afforded by
pyjama - parties and the visit of Billy
Graham, the Queensland “Gold Coast”
is feeling the pinch of competition. This
is due largely to the fact that establish-
ments in the nearby N.S.W. “Diamond
Coast” can serve liquor legally for con-
siderably longer hours. The Nicklin-
Morris Government has refused to
amend and “liberalise” the Queensland
liquor laws at present, arguing com-
mendably that a decision should await
the result of the State election next year.
• •
Oklahoma, dry in the alcoholic sense
since its admission to the American
Union in 1907, has voted itself wet. The
majority for the change wasn’t large, but
according to reports most of the opposi-
tion came not from teetotallers but from
"Better whack into the green-belt before they rezone it!”
drinkers, who under the dry system got
their bootleg liquor tax-free, paying less
for it than people in neighboring States.
• •
Farm income for the current financial
year is now expected to be about £4OO
million instead of the original estimate
of £349 million, Primary Industry Minis-
ter Adermann told the House of Repre-
sentatives last week. Meat is making the
biggest contribution to the increase;
other factors are a better wheat-crop
than had been anticipated and a bigger
wool-cheque.
• •
Melbourne University’s annual report,
now a depressingly familiar catalogue of
higher education in overcrowded slum
conditions, this year records classes of
up to 500 students. Quotas have had
to be imposed in commerce, science,
agricultural-science, engineering, dental-
science and medicine the Victorian
Government last week admitted that for
the next few years it would be helping
about 20 doctors a year to migrate.
The report deplores “the necessity of
denying young men and women the
benefit of a university education in their
chosen careers after they have passed
our matriculation examination,” but until
Monash is built there seems no alter-
native.
• •
“F”: “D’s” estimate (B. 11/3/’59) that
Melbourne will have to wait 240 years
for its Culture Centre disregards the
prime fact of the Hire - purchase Age.
Within 50 years an income of £15,000
p.a. put out at 8 p.c. compound interest
would enable the trustees to start spend-
ing at the rate of £500,000 p.a. If the
buildings were constructed to give maxi-
mum parking-space in the foundations, a
mere 60 years would not only see the
centre completed ; the trustees would also
be able to ensure £500,000 a year for
operation and upkeep—at least for the
duration of the Hire-purchase Age.
“A.A.R.”: At the Alma Park polling-
booth in the Walbundrie subdivision of
Albury electorate 71 people voted.
Seventy votes went to Liberal member
Padman, none to the A.L.P. or the
D.L.P. candidate and there was one in-
formal. The two officials at the booth —
one a farmer, the other a teacher —will
have no doubts at all about the political
leanings of any of us. But we now
know theirs, too—unless it was one of
them who lodged the informal vote.
• •
Commenting on the flight of the Dalai
Lama, the “Times of India” says:;—
Now the vacuum of Tibetan autonomy
has been completely and demonstrably
filled by Chinese power, India must look
to the security of its northern border.
In this connection it can hardly be over-
looked that Nepal, an independent king-
dom with close ties with India, was under
the same kind of hazy suzerainty to
China as Tibet until British influence
came into Katmandu. Sikkim and
Bhutan, under Indian protection since
the British withdrawal, were also once
closely linked with Tibet.
• •
E.J. Hogan, who ran Victoria at the
time of the Farmers’ Debts Adjustment
Act and similar moratoriums, has
emerged from retirement from political
controversy with a letter to a Melbourne
paper denouncing the proposed Federal
rises. It is understandable that recom-
mendations to pay M.H.R.s £l4OO a year
more than Commoners and £2700 a year
more than New Zealand members should
make a depression-years Premier aghast.
• •
Mr. Justice Dean, Chancellor of Mel-
bourne University, wants Australian uni-
versities to follow Britain’s lead in form-
ing a cultural relationship with Russia
through exchange of students and books,
as an influence for international peace.
Russian students of law might be sur-
prised to learn, too, of a country where
the courts are not instruments of party
policy.


Personal
ITEMS
Leader of the Government in the
Westralian Legislative Council and Min-
ister for Mines and Housing in the new
Cabinet, 46-year-old Arthur Griffith sat
in both Houses of the Westralian Parlia-
ment during his first four years of Par-
liamentary life. After service overseas
in War 11., he did insurance-work in
Perth until 1950, when he was elected
for the Canning seat in the Assembly.
Outed at the general election of February,
1953, he won a by-election for the Subur-
ban Province of the Legislative Council
four months later, and, at 38, became its
youngest member.
• •
“Jock”: New chairman of the N.S.W.
Closer Settlement Advisory Board is R.
Mostyn, who succeeds A. Hutchinson.
Mostyn was appointed a member of the
board 12 years ago; before that he was
a Government surveyor in city and
country areas. He’s 57.
• •
Alwyn Stone, who is calling it a day as
Melbourne City Council’s chief electrical-
engineer and manager of the electric-
supply department, plans to visit England
and the U.S. for a well-earned holiday.
He joined the council in 1915 as a quali-
fied engineer, but most of his next years
were spent in the mud of France. “Forty-
four years in various jobs in the depart-
ment,” he told The Bulletin with a
chuckle, “and, like Montgomery, they
never found me out.”
• •
“Blue Ribbon”: A champion R.A.N.
boxer in his day, holding a number of
titles, and subsequently an alderman of
Brisbane City Council, Eric Clifford has
now received what may seem an odd
sort of distinction for an old Navy man
—a 30-year Bar to his “Fidelity Star”
from the Royal Naval Temperance
Society. A lifelong abstainer from
alcohol, tobacco and gambling, he joined
the society when he was with the R.A.N.
in 1929. He was often pressed by his
former shipmates to “have one,” but
turned the shouts dowm —he has nothing,
he says, against a bloke having one, so
long as he doesn’t submerge his wife and
family in it, too.
• •
Major D. Jamieson, who won the V.C.
in Normandy in 1944 and is now Gover-
nor of the Agricultural Company, Inc.,
of Britain, is spending several months
looking over the company’s interests,
sheep and cattle, in Westralia, the N.T.,
N.S.W. and Queensland. Four years ago
this company introduced the first Santa
Gertrudis bull into Westralia ; Major.
Jamieson believes that breeding from
this strain could solve cattle-problems
in the nor’-west.
John William Goodsell, C.M.G.,
started work with the N.S.W. Public
Works Department in 1922 as a junior
clerk on the Avon and Nepean Dams, a
possible augury of his present position
as president of the Sydney Water Board,
which has nearly finished building, at Warra-
gamba, the largest dam of its kind in the
Southern Hemisphere. Between dams, as it
were, Goodsell’s career reads like a directory
of the N.S.W. Government service—he is one
of those able public administrators who would
have hit the top in any sphere, and whose
soft, persuasive speech conceals a keen analyti-
cal mind which has been called-in many times
WATER BOARD PRESIDENT
to check-over the workings of public adminis-
tration.
For example, when he was a Public Service
Board inspector between 1938-46, in addition to
normal duties, he set-up the National Emergency
Services, the State War-effort Co-ordination
Committee, the Charcoal Production Organisa-
tion, the State Dockyard and the State Housing
Commission ; and reorganised the Child Welfare
Department, the Health Department, the
Treasury, Public Works Department, Grain
Elevators Branch, Premier’s Department,
Supreme Court Offices, Government Printing
Office, State Clothing Factory, State Motor
Garage, and the Forestry Commission.
He speeded-up a bit after 1946, when he
transferred to the Treasury, becoming Under-
secretary and Permanent Head in 1948, as well
as chairman or a member of more than two-
dozen different departments, committees and
boards. He became really busy in 1955, when,
as president of the Water Board, he took on
the slings and arrows of outraged gardeners
and the problems of supplying water to
2,148,000 people. He still finds time, however,
to be a councillor of the University of N.S.W.,
a director of Sydney Rotary and of the Eliza-
bethan Theatre board of management, and a
councillor of the City of Sydney Eisteddfod.
• •
Trained as a geologist at Sydney Uni-
versity under Sir Edgeworth David,
Marcel Aurousseau, who dropped-in at
The Bulletin last week to look-up
something in the files, became the first
lecturer in geology at the University of
Westralia. On the outbreak of War I he took
time otf to go overseas with the old 51st
Battalion, but returned after demob, to his
former job and found himself put in charge
of the department.
Catching the wanderlust, though, he went
off to America and changed his study to
geography, working first with the Carnegie
Institute in Washington and then with the
American Geographic Society in New York. He
came back to Australia in 1924, but set out
again the next year for Europe, walked from
Paris to Madrid and published an account of
his perambulations, Highway into Spain.
After that he settled in London, employed by
the Royal Geographical Society and later by
the Permanent Committee on Geographical
Names (inter-departmental Foreign Office,
Admiralty, War Office, Ordnance Survey,
etc. - all branches interested in .stan-
dardised spelling of placenames). While
on this committee he attended the third and
fourth International Congresses of Onomastic
Science at Brussels and Upsala. The Admiralty,
he says, received the invitation to the first of
these conferences and, unable to fathom the
meaning of "onomastic,” passed the matter to
the medical branch, where it was neatly pigeon-
holed.
Aurousseau lived in London until 1956, when
he retired and came back to Australia. He’s a
member of the Hakluyt Society’s Cook Com-
mittee and is helping with the definitive edition
of Cook’s Voyages, which they are issuing.
Interested in Leichhardt's letters and anything
else of Australian geographic importance, he’s
also on the Antarctic Names Committee of
Australia.
• •
The Apex movement originated in
Geelong (Vic.) 25 years ago, when three
architects, W. Langham Proud, Ewen
Laird and John Buchan conceived the
idea of a community-service club for
men between ages 20 and 40 and
enlisted the help of Dr. J. J. Booth, then
Bishop of Geeiong and president of
Geelong Rotary. Apex now has 8000
members in 300 clubs in Australia, New
Guinea, Colombo, Malaya and Singa-
pore and will soon be established in"
Pakistan, India and Thailand. Proud is
a consultant in Hamilton (Vic.), and
Laird has his practice in Geelong, while
Buchan is a Melbourne City Councillor
and chairman of the council’s traffic-
committee.
• •
A good comeback was staged by Les
Nimmo when he recaptured the Wembley
Beaches seat for the Liberals in the
Westralian elections after a three-years’
absence from the Assembly. He entered
Parliament as member for Mt. HaXvthorn
12 years ago, and on the redistribution
of boundaries in 1950 successfully con-
tested the then new Wembley Beaches
electorate. In 1956 he had a try for the
adjoining Leederville electorate and lost.
During War 1 he served in the R.A.N.;
later, with Sir John Gellibrand, he was
one of the founders of Legacy.


Another member of the new Westra-
lian Assembly, Hugh Norman Guthrie
(he recaptured Subiaco for the Liberals
from Labor member G. Potter), is, out-
side politics, a past-president of Perth
Legacy. He’s also a past-president of the
Royal King’s Park Tennis Club, vice-
president of the Westralian Lawn Tennis
Association, and chairman of trustees of
the Australian Canteens Fund scholar-
ship-fund. In War II in the Middle East,
New Guinea and Borneo, he rose from
private to captain, was wounded at
Sanananda, and was mentioned in
dispatches.
• •
H. T. Thomas, of Auckland (N.Z.),
chosen as world - president of Rotary
International, plans to leave for Evanston,
Illinois (U.S.A.), this month to take-up
his job, which will last till July, 1960.
Now 67 he has been a leading figure in
Rotary for years. The h.-q. at Evanston
has a staff of 170, and the presidential
job entails a lot of getting around the
world.
• e
Headmaster of Christchurch (N.Z.)
Boys High School since 1951, James
Leggat has been appointed Director of
Education in Western Samoa. A graduate
of Auckland University College and a
member of Canterbury University Coun-
cil, he fills in odd moments with work
for the R.S.A. or at cricket, Rugby or
Rotary. He was in the 22nd Batt. in
Greece, Crete and North Africa in War
11., and was awarded the C.B.E. in the
1958 honors-list.
ERNEST EVANS, M.L.A. for Mirani
( Q .) since 1937, migrated from South
Queensland to the sugar-country. He
served as chairman of the Pioneer Shire
Council for over 13 years, as well as on
the Sugar Producers’ Executive, in which
role he encouraged the installation of
bulk-handling equipment at Mackay and
other ports. In 1957 he became Minister
for Development, Main Roads and
Electricity.
“C.R.”: Appropriately, Fremantle is
represented by an ex-Navy type in the
new Westralian Parliament Herbert
Roger Fletcher, the Assembly’s only new
Labor man, replacing veteran Joseph
Bertram Sleeman, who had held the seat
since 1924 and been Chairman of Com-
mittees and Speaker. Fletcher was a
farmer before War 11, served more than
four years in the R.A.N., and after dis-
charge took a rehabilitation course in
bricklaying. He was soon active in union
and A.L.P. affairs, and eventually was
elected to the A.L.P. State executive.
Non-political interests include gym-
nasium-work and the Sea Scouts.
• •
Just - retired Westralian Surveyor-
General W. V. Fyfe has done a swag
of big jobs for the State in addition to
the normal ones of his own department.
As royal commissioner, in 1940, he
reported on the economic and financial
set-up of the pastoral industry ; from
1945 to 1948 he was seconded to take
charge of the War Service Land Settle-
ment Scheme, and since 1945 he has
also represented Westralia on the National
Mapping Council and held posts on
numerous boards—chairmanship of the
Pastoral Appraisement Board, the Land
Surveyors’ Licensing Board, the Nomen-
clature Advisory Board and the Kim-
berley Development Advisory Committee,
which investigates irrigation proposals
for the State’s nor’-west.
• •
This year’s Horners Award for an
article made of plastics has been won
by 27-year-old Ronald Facius, of Perth,
who has spent the past seven years work-
ing in London in the design-department
of a British firm. He's the first Austra-
lian-born winner of the award, which
is made annually by the British Plastics
Federation. His prizewinning design was
a telephone-kiosk.
• •
T. K. Chang, leader of a trade-mission
now in Australia, states that Formosa
expects to increase its wool-imports 50
per cent., to reach £1 million this year.
He also predicts the importation of dairy-
cattle at the rate of 250 a year for the
next 10 years, to improve the island’s
milk-supply. He’s head of the Bank of
Formosa and was his country’s delegate
at the Ecafe conference at Broad-
beach (Q.).
• •
Dr. Orvar Swenson, Professor of
Pediatric Surgery at the Tufts University
School of Medicine, Boston (U.S.A.),
and also at Boston Floating Hospital,
has come to Melbourne to demonstrate
new techniques and to help with the
coaching of students at the Royal
Children’s Hospital. He will make brief
visits, as well, to Canberra and Sydney.
He’s the first medical man to be invited
to Australia under the. Felton Bequest,
and Melbourne’s top medical brass are
hoping the trustees will make him the first
of a distinguished procession.
L. E. (“LEW”) ROBERTS, general-
manager of the Silverton Tramway, which
runs between the South Australian border
and Broken Hill.
Into the Silence: —■
In Sydney, at 80, Raymond Hollis Longford,
pioneer picture-producer, best known for his
movie-version of The Sentimental Bloke. He
also produced movie-versions of On Our
Selection and others.
In Pemberton (W.A.), at 80, George Seymour
Giblett, pioneer of south-western Westralia.
Farmer and businessman, he prospected for
all kinds of minerals in his spare time.
In Melbourne, at 73, George A. Osborne,
former chief-inspector of primary schools.
In Perth, at 84, Henry Percy Downing,
leader of the Westralian Bar for about 12
years before he retired in 1956. Born in
Sydney, he was called to the N.S.W. Bar in
1896 and admitted to practice in Westralia
the following year. An authority on commer-
cial and company law, he was director of a
number of companies.
In Sydney, A. W. (“Sandy”) Brand, life-
member of N.S.W. Rugby League and a
foundation- and life-member of Balmain Club.
In Adelaide, at 92, Dr. William Arthur
Hargreaves, director of the South Australian
Department of Chemistry, 1916-32. He was
the first to register a car in S.A.
In Melbourne, at 68, W. S. Jones, g.-m. of
the Trustees Executors and Agency Co. for 22
years until his retirement two years ago. An
Old Digger, he was business-member of the
Air Board and on the business-board of
administration of the Defence Co-ordination
Department in War 11.
In Sydney, Isobel M. King, former head-
mistress of Normanhurst Girls’ School and
honorary adviser to the Repatriation Commis-
sion’s committee on the education of service-
men’s children.


ABORIGINALITIES
As I passed the decrepit utility parked
on the side of the road I noticed a
young half-caste, his face scored and
bloody, sitting in it. Standing on the
road and holding his hand was a good-
looking big lump of a young gin. On the
road lay a pair of shoes and a burst-open
suitcase, its contents strewn for yards
fore and aft. A little further on I caught
up with the cause of it all —a furiously
striding lubra, barefoot and belligerent,
who waved me down peremptorily and
asked if I was going to town. When
I said I was, she hopped-in, closed the
door with a crippling slam, and rasped:
“Then drop me at the p’leece station.”
Then, settling herself and breathing
heavily, she added: “I’ve had bloody
gins!”—“F.”
• * * w
“Dune”: Gone with the Afghan
hawker and the Indian eye-doctor is the
self-styled travelling “vet.,” who, in the
days when Dobbin was indispensable,
did good business throughout the wheat-
belt without benefit of university degree,
though with a fair smattering of a horse’s
ailments. One speciality I came across
“Go on—hop it!”
was the filing down of the grinding-
molars of a poor-looking horse. Sales
consisted mostly of an ointment for the
treatment of sore shoulders and saddle-
sores. Most of the fraternity who came
my way were, hard-drinkers who needed
considerable lubrication before getting to
work. Like the ’Ghan hawker, the
perambulating vet. brought clients up-to-
date with district gossip. His modern
counterpart, the diesel - mechanic, is
usually in too much of a tearing hurry
to stop for small-talk.
“Tabba”: Bowen (Q.) hasn’t put its
house in order as quickly this
year as after last year’s April
Fool’s Day blow. Damage was
less, but more of it shows than after
three weeks last year, when it came just
before Easter, and the town had so many
voluntary workers over the holiday.
Many more properties were insured this
year, and it must have rocked the in-
surance companies, having two cyclone
pay-outs in 10 months. Waiting for roof-
and wall - repairs, buildings suffer each
time it rains, as water pours down in-
terior walls, streaking them and soaking
floor-coverings. The Club Hotel having
lost its veranda roofs, the front-rooms
open on to a weather-swept deck, so that
I’ll need a coat to go to bed tonight.
Maybe it was true —the old story that the
town was named Bloweh until the wind
blew the “L” out of it.
* * * *
“Darling Downs”: There was no im-
ported vehicle known in Australia under
the generic name of Abbott (B. 25/3/’59),
though that may have been the name of
the carriage-maker. An American buggy
was a one-horse or two-horse light
vehicle, four-wheeled, and when hooded
was known as a top-buggy. The English
buggy was a light two-wheeled vehicle
without hood ; the Australian variety was
four-wheeled, normally one-horsed and
unhooded. The American Surrey was a
light four-wheeler, normally with two
seats in a box mounted on side-bars,
and sometimes had a top. The American
sulky still is a light, two-wheeled, one-
horsed vehicle, seating one person only—
the familiar trotting-spider. What Aus-
tralians knew as a sulky was called, in
England, a gig—a light'two-wheeled top-
less vehicle, one-horsed, and usually built
for two. I have always understood that
in the Old Dart a sulky was a vehicle
for one, the name deriving from a “sulky”
person, or one who preferred his own
company.
* * * *
“Maitri”: Whenever the Irish-terrier
was caught chasing fowls his mistress
used to shut him in a small shed. Un-
doubtedly Ginger Meggs (as he’s called)
is a reasonable animal: even when
nobody catches him at it nowadays, he
automatically incarcerates himself in his
prison as soon as the pleasures of the
chase are over.
* * * #
“R.R.D.”: I was talking to “Duke”
Tritton about a game I'd played called
Maitland roulette. This seemed to me
the purest form of gambling I'd seen in
a misspent life. Its only rival to my mind
was fan-tan, played in a houseboat-
casino in pre-war China. The Maitland
rules were simple: catch a cockroach, or
better still a fast-running black beetle, put
it under an empty matchbox set in the
middle of a round table (on which seg-
ments have been marked with match-
stalks, where the participants could lay
their bets). Turn the box round three


Ok u&l, w/ vmL J i suppose
it's aw. Qy> ire usefou fogl th£
WOMAN WHO hasn’t K.6PT HBR.
L.OOKS f f/


times and then release the insect. The
lucky man through whose segment the
beetle runs scoops the pool. The “Duke”
smiled when I told him this: “You
haven’t seen ‘fly-loo’,” he said. “That’s
simpler. Take four men drinking beer—
or as many as you like, within reason.
Each puts down one drop of beer on the
table. Lay your stakes, and the first drop
on which a fly alights shows the winner.
He takes all.”
* * * *
“Quartercut”: For years a handsome
white-cockatoo on his stand fronting the
Fitzroy (Melbourne) Gardens kiosk wel-
comed visitors by bowing winningly and
requesting “Scratch Cocky’s poll.” His
pleasure, and that of initiated onlookers,
was assessed not by the thoroughness of
the neck-massage but by the number of
coat- or waistcoat-buttons he could nip-
off before the victim woke-up to the real
significance of cocky nuzzling his midriff
so affectionately.
* * * *
“Jesmondene”: Can’t help “Ceg” (B.
25/3/’59) with “Chip Girl,” except to
counsel him to move cautiously amongst
the chips. Chipper (not in my Ox., Con.)
in colloquial U.K. practice means “feel-
ing on top of the world.” Chippy (still
in the Old Dart) means “suffering a hang-
over.” It could be a girl who’d “got
among the chips” but don’t use the
term in the U.S. There it vulgarly
describes a lady of no morals.
* * * *
“Jane Williams”: Making a sentimen-
tal journey to Henry Lawson’s mining-
days home-country at Gulgong in 1931
was a saddening experience. Looking
from the veranda of the Lawson home
over a waste of semi-dried paddocks
dotted with hundreds of mullock-heaps,
we ceased to wonder at the sadness in
Henry’s work. The old school was still
standing, but, talking with one of the
oldest inhabitants, we gathered that
Henry was not its brightest light. Praise
went to a “good boy” who became in
the fullness of time a police-inspector.
* * * *
“Narque”: On March 25, between 5
a.m. and 6 a.m., we in Western Queens-
land got a front-seat view of the moon’s
eclipse. Later on, during the A.B.C.
Devotional Session, there was played a
dramatic presentation of the Crucifixion.
Among all the shouts of derision and
insults at the moment when “darkness
came over the earth” a voice of an on-
looker was heard saying, “There can’t
be an eclipse with the moon at the full.”
Was such a phenomenon impossible at
that time?
* * * *
“Durian”: On our visit to the Old
Country we stayed with relatives at
Horncastle, and had an invitation to
take tea at a slightly stately mansion
down the road. The wherefore of it was
that the Blanks had a niece who, of all
things, had married a chap from N.S.W.
during the war, now lived outback at
a place called Turramurra, and Sir James
wanted to meet an Australian or two
and be reassured that she had not neces-
sarily been incorporated into the Arunta
or Warramunga tribes. My husband Bill,
who takes a dim view of an autumn
afternoon spent juggling Crown Derby,
came along cheerfully because (as I later
found) Aunt Mary had briefed him not
to miss the splendid Romneys at Stix-
wood Park. Our reception was politely
hospitable, but Bill’s conversational gam-
bit to Sir James caused a flutter. “Well,
sir, said he, “I’m told you have some
decent Romneys, but I only saw a few
Lincoln wethers behind the Lodge.” It
broke the ice, but when we were smilingly
led to the gallery to see several paintings
of Lady Emma, Bill woke-up that the
Stixwood Romneys were connected with
oils rather than lanolin. After that it
went . well, because Sir J. preferred
Glenlivet to Soochong, and it turned-out
that his pile-making had been substan-
tially enmeshed with wool. He even
encouraged an earbashing from Bill on
his Corriedale stud.
* * * *
“Corio”: Yes, it happened in the
centre of Geelong, the Cabbage State’s
biggest provincial city. Worried by per-
sistent noises under the house and
evidence of burrowing a resident set a
rabbit-trap, thinking he might nail a
stray cat (the pet cat had disappeared
about this time), a possum or even a
rabbit. When the trap was finally sprung
it securely held a fox. Reynard had a
rich fur and was obviously in the prime
of life, but how he had subsisted for two
months in his unnatural home, apart
from the cat’s milk which disappeared
daily, remains a mystery.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: Regarding “Duke” Tritton’s
claim (B. 31/12/’5B) that 20 or 30
mallee-hens (lowans) would use one nest,
I once kept half-a-dozen mounds under
observation, and one pair of birds to
each nest was the invariable rule, with
the cock-bird doing all the hard of
keeping the mound in working order after
the eggs were laid.
V * • •
Co the Queensland Police Force is to
have a special “anti-rustling squad.”
(What has become of those good Austra-
lian terms “duffing,” “moonlighting” and
“poddy-dodging”?) Members are to be
experienced bushmen, good horsemen,
wear “very plain clothes” and look
nothing like policemen. Let’s hope they
won’t repeat the error made by a mem-
ber of the same force whom I knew
during my childhood.
It was widely believed that the pro-
prietor of a certain mail - change pub
was brewing his own firewater, but proof
was lacking until my father tracked his
Hindu dingo-trapper, an accomplice, to
the still. Asked to guide a policeman to
the spot, Dad laid down his conditions:
“He’ll have an eighty-mile ride to my
homestead and another thirty to the still,
and the bush - telegraph will be well
ahead of him if he’s recognised. Get
some trooper from down the line who
isn’t known locally ; tell him to borrow
some bushworker’s clothes and, especi-
ally, hat —not too new, but they must
fit like his own. Don’t send him out on
a police horse. Borrow a stock-horse,
saddle and bridle from someone you can
trust —and don’t let him be seen about
the police-station.”
These instructions were followed to the
letter, but the inexperienced young
trooper rode up to the homestead wear-
ing bright, shiny, unmistakable police-
man’s leggings. My disgusted parent
refused to guide him, saying the still
would certainly not be there when they
arrived, and the trooper rode back to
town, very crestfallen. But the “moon-
shiners’ ” reprieve was short; a more
experienced man who measured-up to
Dad’s exacting standards laid an ambush
and caught them red-handed.
MARGARET.


ROCKET POWER
for vour tar ...
/
A
r
Gives you all these
ad van tages. ..
• ROCKET POWER!
9 More miles per gallon
£ Easier starting
9 Smoother, quieter running
0 Longer engine life
Fast acceleration
Australia's FIRST
BORON Petrol
Ampol Boron Special is Australia’s
only Boron petrol. It is the best
petrol you can buy! Test it your-
self. Fill up with Ampol Boron
Special to-day! Costs no more
than the Super Grade petrols it
replaces. Get rocket power for the
road at no extra cost.
NOTHING MATCHES BORON!
A
A


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. URQUHART, M. D. PASSMORE, K. W. A. BRIDGES
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O'Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone ' Cables & Telegrams
BWBI7I (3 lines) 8L5327 “EMDECELEX,” Sydney
J. T. HARRY & DIXON
(Eric E. Dixon, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
113 Pitt St., Telephone: BL 1987
Sydney Tel. Add.: “Harry Stock Exchange,” Sydney
Business, Robbery, Etc.
STRAWS IN THE WIND
At this late stage in the
current wool-selling season
the market has chosen to take
a decided upturn, the lift com-
pared with prices before Easter
being from 12 p.c. to 15 p.c.
Prices now correspond with
those at the opening of the
season. Their influence on the
current year’s receipts from the
sale of wool will not be so
important as the possible effect
on sales of the 1959-60 clip,
which will begin around the
end of August next.
So much of the present
season’s clip has now been sold
that the stimulus of the rise
on wool in store awaiting sale
will be slight in overall figures.
The recovery is estimated, in
fact, at 4 p.c. or 5 p.c.
But with prospects of some-
thing better in the new season
(though keeping one’s fingers
crossed), and with meat, sugar,
some metals, butter and hides
now at higher price-levels than
a year ago, the outlook isn’t
as drab as it was, either from
the personal viewpoint of the
primary producer or from the
national point of view.
Primary Production Minister
Adermann has a revised esti-
mate of net farm income for
1958-59 —up from £349 million
to £4OO million. The “running
trade-deficit” for the nine
months to March 31 has
dropped to £l6 million, after
the bad start earlier in the
year. The situation, of course,
is still worse than that for the
same period of 1957-58
(£52 million surplus), and
“invisibles” have to be taken
into account.
One of the variables and un-
accountables in the national
outlook is the amount of over-
seas capital that will come into
the country during the next 12
months.
During the first nine months
of the current financial year the
high inflow of overseas funds
has thrown askew ideas of a
balance -of - payments deficit
based purely on trading results.
The partial failure of a Com-
monwealth loan in London
recently may be a pointer to a
possible slackening of the flow,
though there were special cir-
cumstances surrounding that
setback. The concessions to
U.K. industry in last week’s
Budget may make investment
“By the Way, Proctor, if this equal pay becomes
law, one of you will have to go—and it wont be
Miss Bentley !”
at home more attractive to
U.K. investors, thus competing
with Australia and other over-
seas investment markets. But
these are just straws in the
wind, and need to be con-
sidered among other factors,
one of which, of course, is that
the U.K. is not our only source
of capital, though it is prob-
ably the principal overseas
investor in our existing Stock
Exchange securities, as opposed
to the establishment of new
industries, in which the U.S.
is prominent.
The underlying muscle of
the Australian economy is
developing pretty steadily in
spite of variations in the level
and nature of our external
trade. But it has many dis-
advantages, including the major
one of man-hour production-
costs, as well as a sluggish
Canberra approach to finan-
cial and economic problems
such as those which have
arisen out of a taxation policy
which largely ignores the diffi-
culties that have been placed
on industry by inflation, par-
ticularly with regard to
depreciation allowances.
The complacency of Can-
berra bureaucrats may be con-
trasted with the comparative
alertness and awareness of the
U.K. Treasury, which is allow-
ing a deduction from assess-
able income of 20 p.c. of
expenditure on new plant and
machinery and 10 p.c. on the
construction of new industrial
buildings.
These allowances are made
only because of the problems
which post-war British indus-
try is encountering, largely as
a result of the depreciation
that has occurred in the £ ster-
ling, both as regards capital-
costs and production-costs.
The U.K. Government had
already given consideration to
shipping-companies meeting
the competition of subsidised
foreign lines and those on the
registers of countries like
Liberia and Panama, even
though owned in, perhaps, the
U.K., Greece or the U.S.A.
Canberra doesn’t appear to
be sufficiently aware of the
problems of our secondary
industries which have arisen
from inflation and the finan-
cial dislocation caused by
World War 11. In fact, even
under the Menzies Govern-
ment, there appears to be a
bureaucratic attempt to imple-
ment Socialism regardless of
Ministerial intentions. There
has so far been no one strong
enough in the Federal Treasury
to counter this —not at any
time since the Menzies-Fadden
Government was elected to
office in 1949.
The burden of taxation
anomalies cum inflation has
been made particularly onerous
in Australia because of the
40-hour week. In the U.K.
the working-week is at least 44
hours in most industries. And
yet the U.K., with its 50-million
home-market to cater for in
addition to its vital export
trade, finds it necessary to do
something to help industry in
its problem of keeping both
capital-costs and working-costs
down.
The way this problem has
been sidestepped in Australia
has been an infuriating
example of entrenched and
smug public servant and the
helpless (or inept) politician.
B.H.P. Above 565.
TT7hen B.H.P. shares, cum
rights to the new issue for
which the books close on
April 17, touched 565. 3d. last
week they were at the highest
point, allowing for the new
issues in between, ever
recorded.
The new issue is to be on the
basis of one-for-five at par,
and applications (10s. a share)
have to be in by June 15. A
total of 10,616,216 shares are
being offered the biggest
Australian company-issue on
record.
At last week’s quotation the
ex-rights price would be 505.,
so that rights to the new issue
have a theoretical value of
30s. Yield at 50s. from an 8f


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
Wishing won t make it so!
6
'2'-
vvw
V
Plan for the future with an
A.N.Z. SAVINGS BANK
ACCOUNT
where your money earns
3% INTEREST
on balances up to £2,000
Turn pipe dreams into reality with this
simple formula:
(1) Open an A.N.Z. Savings Account by
calling at any A.N.Z. Savings Bank
Branch.
(2) Decide how much you can afford to
save each payday.
(3) Pay in this sum regularly to your
A.N.Z. Savings Bank Account.
m
A-N-Z
Plan ahead . . . Bank A.N.Z.
A.N.Z. SAVINGS BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
ANZ543.2458
p.c. distribution would be
£3 11s. per cent.
Though the market generally
was in an aggressively specu-
lative mood last week, paying
a high premium for future
prospects, there was a little
overdue repentance by holders
of leading chain-store con-
cerns. Both G. J. Coles and
Woolworths shares were priced
at around 195., in each case to
yield about 3.1 p.c., against the
2.9 p.c. recently accepted
from Woolworths.
With a number of glamor
stocks lately showing around
3 p.c. or less, the question
inevitably arose: How low can
you go?
U.K., U.S.—and Australia
Tust to keep our thinking in
** the right proportions, the
Institute of Public Affairs Vic-
toria points out that since the
war the U.K. has contributed
two-thirds of the overseas capi-
tal invested in Australia, and
the U.S. one-fifth.
Australians themselves are
not doing too badly ; overseas
investment has comprised
about one-fifth of all private
investment in capital assets
such as industrial plant and
equipment.
So the Australians, who
spend all their money every
week on beer and bets, never-
theless found four-fifths of it.
U.S. Investment Here
Asa result of natural increase
and migration, population-
growth in Australia is
expected to average more
than two per cent, each
year over the next 10 to 15
years, with total population
exceeding 12 million by 1968.
Commenting on the growth
of U.S. investment in Australia
during this period, the Depart-
ment of Trade, Melbourne,
says that the post-war period
in Australia has been charac-
terised by a strong demand for
all goods and services arising
from high living-standards and
population-growth. Favorable
economic circumstances have
encouraged a high level of
private investment, a great deal
of which has been in manu-
facturing industry. This indus-
trial development has been
financed in no small measure
by overseas capital, with a
significant contribution from
the United States.
In the 10-year period to
June, 1957, more than $l5OO
million of private overseas
capital has been invested in
Australia, and over a quarter
of this has come from North
America. Ploughed - back
profits have been an important
source of capital for industrial
development, and the willing-
ness of overseas investors to re-
invest their profits is indicative
of their confidence in Aus-
tralia’s future. The Australian
Government welcomes over-
seas capital, the department
emphasises, particularly where
it is of a kind likely to help in
the balanced development of
Australia’s resources, and
where it brings with it the
skills and techniques needed
for the successful fulfilment of
the project in which the invest-
ment is made.
There are no restrictions on
remittance of capital funds to
Australia, except that residents
must obtain exchange-control
approval before borrowing
overseas currency or incurring
a liability to a non-sterling
area resident,
™ _
remittance abroad of
net lncome resulting from
ove iseas investment in Aus-
tralia requires exchange-control
approval. However, under
existing policy, all such current
net income (after taxation)
accruing to firms or individuals
resident overseas may be re-
mitted without restriction.
Approval is also normally
granted for the repatriation of


til,
mm
mm
■ ■ ,
.
ywt..
■UA
me
y
■
mm.
§§|§| _
’ ■ ■
- ■-" ■...''
:
aJvJvwX
\
9o
W&
WWMv
Ur
' I
s
%
iiM.
%
■
1
:v
.■■ We
C >Stn?OT
C °nA^ £ o
We
m
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES, DISTILLED & BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
Arthur Bell & Sons Ltd., Distillers. Perth. Scotland. Est. 1825
PRING DEAN & CO.
H. H. Dean, V. J. Berner, XV. L. Hunt, J. A. Hudson.
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
27 Hunter St., SYDNEY. Telephone: BW4OII (3 lines)
Telegrams Address : Bring Stock Exchange, Sydney.
Cables Address : Einwar, Sydney.
capital and is only withheld in
exceptional circumstances.
To encourage investment,
Australia has negotiated a
taxation agreement with the
U.S.A., which is designed to
relieve the double-taxation on
income flowing between the
two countries. Generally, the
principle is to reduce the total
burden of tax to the higher
of the taxes imposed by the
two countries.
Uniform H.-p. Law
Tt is probable that Bolte will
be smartly off the mark
and will have the first bill into
Parliament incorporating the
uniform hire-purchase legisla-
tion agreed to by inter-State
Ministers at their Melbourne
conference.
The Ministers agreed to h.-p.
contracts setting out a hirer’s
full financial liabilities ; under-
writing the worthiness, in
effect, of the hired goods;
correct treatment on reposses-
sion ; choice of insurance when
paid in advance; and heavy
penalties for failure to observe
the law.
Most of these provisions
were embodied in Bolte’s bill
which was defeated in the Vic-
torian Parliament by the nulli-
fying tactics of the Country
and Labor parties. The Coun-
try party is now beaming on
Bolte’s bills and its passage
seems assured.
More Investment
[From Canberra]
HThe Commonwealth Govern-
-*■ ment wants State jealousies
wiped out in the race by indi-
vidual State Governments to
attract overseas investments.
The Commonwealth is
anxious that in attracting
capital the States should
ensure that it is in the national
interest and that investment
would be on a long-term basis,
not just a quick, short-term
investment with a speedy
return of profits to be taken
out of the country.
It is also anxious that over-
seas investment should, where
possible, be in partnership with
Australian capital.
The Prime Minister, Mr.
Menzies, said that the Com-
monwealth recognised its
activity in this field should be
developed in co-operation
with the investment-promotion
activities of the States and
private business interests.
Brewery Call
A spokesman for Queensland
Brewery has announced
that a final call of 10s. on the
IGa.-paid ordinary shares is
expected to be made later this
year.
At 19s. with 10s. to pay, the
shares when fully paid would
cost 295., to yield an attractive
5i p.c. The old fully-paid
shares have been firm at
31s. 9d. for several months.
This gap between the new and
old shares would close as soon
as dividend differences came
into line, and there are benefits
to shareholders in prospect
which keep Queensland
Brewery one of the low-yield-
ing front-line stocks.
City Investments
VX7JTH an encouraging half-
yearly report in, City In-
vestments, Ltd. (Brisbane),
shares are hovering below par.
At 19s. the yield on an 81 p.c.
dividend is a shade under 9
p.c. The asset-backing, on
book-values, of the £1 ordinary
shares is 2.25. 9d. Freehold pro-
perty, shown at cost (£61,007)
in the accounts as at June 30,
1958, is suggested to have a
market-value of £120,000. This
puts a price of 265. 9d. on the
shares for anyone contemplat-
ing taking over the company.
Contracts for Kern Bros.
"jVfORTH Queensland contrac-
tors Kern Bros, are now
expanding into the engineering
field. Engineering projects are
increasing, and contracts on
hand are now in the vicinity of
£500,000. Turnover generally
is continuing to expand. The
12| p.c. dividend is covered by
an earning-rate of 19.2 p.c., and
on the market £1 shares yield
10 p.c. at 245.
On its small capital of
£62,002 the company may
seek additional finance later,
possibly by accepting money
on deposit.
Poor Pubs
Stanley Korman and
his esteemed associates in
Melbourne announce plans,
and raise the money, for
bigger and better hotels at
Surfer’s Paradise and similar
far-otf spots, the local citizens
are finding it increasingly
difficult to find a corner pub,
and, when they do, to get
served at busy times.
Five closed in Melbourne
last year and two more are
about to shut-up. Last year
10 others closed in the country
or Victorian country towns,
and, since 1956, 39 have called
the last time. They have
simply been taxed out of ex-
istence, and congestion in the
remaining bars, as the popula-
tion increases, grows worse
each month.
Not only drinks are difficult
to obtain. The city’s bed-
capacity grows less as hotels
are turned into arcades, shops,
offices and banks.
One of the secondary
reasons for the disappearance
of hotel landmarks in Mel-
bourne and the prosperous
country towns is the demand
for land which grows in-
creasingly in the city, and in
the nearer suburbs has risen
out of proportion with even
the price of building.
Judge Fraser, the chairman
of the Licensing Court, has
recommended to the Govern-
ment that lower taxes should
be levied on hotels which pro-
vide meals and accommoda-
tion and higher taxes gathered
from premises licensed simply
as bars.
The judge, who keeps him-
self up to date on what is
happening on licensed premises
not merely by listening to
advocates in his court but also
by timely or untimely appear-
ances on the premises himself,
knows the liquor business now
intimately, and what is practi-
cal.
The Government has been
considering his suggestion for
more than a year, while the
swill grows more insupport-
able.


GREASY-WOOL FUTURES
[Part 2]
By CLIVE HALL
markets cannot
be organised for all
commodities, and in certain
cases they are not justified. A
market of this kind is only
suitable for world commodities
which are subject to consider-
able price-fluctuations Because
of variable production (as in
nearly all agricultural crops)
and variable demand.
In the U.S.A. there are a
number of Futures Exchanges
which provide facilities for
trading in approximately 50
commodities, such as cotton,
wheat, corn, hides, sugar,
butter, eggs, wool and wool-
tops, to name but a few. As a
matter of interest, on the
Cotton Futures Market in the
U.S.A. last year the total
volume of trading (one side
only) amounted to 19,861,700
bales of cotton, which was in
excess of the total annual pro-
duction of cotton. (This is a
normal occurrence).
It is noticeable when look-
ing at the list of commodities
traded in futures in the U.S.A.
that they are. dealing in raw
materials with the exception of
wool-tops, which are a form
of semi-processed wool. How-
ever, not only do they have
their Wool-top Futures
Market but they have a Greasy
Wool Futures Market as well,
even though their domestic clip
amounts to perhaps one-
seventh of the Australian clip.
It is interesting to note that
over the past twelve months
their Greasy Wool Futures
Market has transacted approxi-
mately double the volume of
business to that of their top-
futures market.
This greasy market is quoted
in cents per pound clean, which
is one of the reasons why I
was at pains to try and ex-
plain last week how and why
wool is bought and quoted on
a clean basis.
Tn answer to the question:
A What are the main reasons
for an Australian greasy futures
market? I would suggest that
it appears logical to establish
such a market here, for we
have in Australia what. is
generally recognised as the best
wool in the world, and it would
provide an excellent medium
of insurance and stability not
only for woolgrowers but for
all connected with wool in
Australia.
It is not as though futures
markets were a novelty, for
they have been running in
wool-tops in Europe since the
latter part of the last century
and in other commodities in
the U.S.A. for 70 years or
more. The mere fact of their
still being in operation today
surely indicates their practical
value.
A local greasy-wool futures
market would enable a grower
to insure his clip against a fall
in values at any time whilst
it was growing and the futures
price was attraciive to him
and represented a satisfactory
return for his year’s work and
the capital invested in his
property.
Furthermore, with a local
market it would provide him
with a means whereby, even
though prices were unsatisfac-
tory to him (and under present
conditions he withdraws his
clip for submission to auction
at a later date), he could sell his
clip on the normal day of sale
and buy futures, involving him
in only a small capital outlay
as deposit on his futures con-
tracts whilst he received the
bulk of his income by way of
his sale of wool.
T|y hedging or insuring wool
against wool it is a much
more accurate form of hedging
than wool against tops.
Apart from providing
stability for the woolgrower.
a futures market provides him
with freedom of choice either
to buy or sell at any time he
chooses, for such markets are
normally open for five days a
week, whilst when he sells his
wool the reward for his whole
year’s work is determined on
one particular day at auction,
and should values not be to
his liking that day, under
present circumstances his only
recourse is to withdraw his
clip and reoffer it at a later
date, hoping for a rise. This
obviously leaves him out of
pocket and even involves him
in extra costs by way of
interest charges and so on.
The next question is: How
would such a market operate?
To answer this is pure conjec-
ture, but it seems reasonable
to assume that such a market
would, broadly speaking, be
modelled along the lines of the
existing markets.
Obviously the standard of
quality would be 64’s, for that
is the quality used on all world
markets, including the Nagoya
Yarn Market in Japan.
Similarly, as on London, it
would be necessary to be able
to deliver on to the market if
required Merino combing-
wools of 60's to 70’s quality at
a discount or a premium under
or above the standard. There
are approximately one-and-a-
quarter-million bales of 60’s to
70’s quality combing-wools
available in the normal Aus-
tralian offering.
Here I would stress that
futures markets are not meant
as delivery markets, and over
the years less than 2 p.c. of the
contracts traded on the wool
markets have been delivered.
/"Ane of the chief problems
would be in determining the
size of the unit of contract, and
consideration would need to be
given to the small growers in
this regard. On the world top-
futures markets the unit of
contract is 50001 b. weight of
top, and on the New York
Greasy Market it is the greasy
equivalent of 60001 b. clean
weight of wool, which amounts
to much the same thing. These
weights represent approxi-
mately 30 bales of Merino
combing-wool.
However, in Australia a
large proportion of growers
have less than 30 bales of
Merino combing-wool, so it
would appear that a unit of
contract for a local market
would have to be smaller than
that now in existence on over-
seas markets in order to cater
for the small growers here and
also to enable people to cover
only a portion of their clip if
they felt like it.
In Japan the unit of contract
on the Nagoya Yarn Futures
Market is only 2001 b. weight
of 64’s-quality white worsted-
yarn, and the volume of busi-
ness transacted on that market
over the past twelve months
appears to represent the
equivalent of the Japanese
imports of greasy wool.
■poß the purpose of illustra-
tion, let us use a figure of
30001 b.-weight of clean wool
as the unit of contract—i.e.,
one contract would represent
the greasy equivalent of
30001 b.-weight of clean wool,
or approximately 15 bales of
greasy wool.
The market would be quoted
in pence per pound clean, and,
assuming it would have an
average-style 64’s-quality wool
as a standard, the quotations
would probably be very close
to the Australian Wool Bureau
64’s-average quotation at
present published each week.
It is noticeable in England
that the price of 64’s-average
tops on the Bradford market
is normally 2d. a pound above
the price of spot futures, which
provides a reasonable guide
for people wishing to use the
market.
Now, without attempting to
go into a lot of detail, the
position would be from the
above assumption that the
futures market would be
trading in contracts represent-
ing 15 bales of Merino comb-
ing-wool quoted in Australian
pence per pound clean, and if
any grower is seeking a guide
as to the value of futures he
could always refer to the Aus-
tralian Wool Bureau for 64’s
average to have a rough check
on whether futures were
trading at a high or low level
relative to current wool values.
Lastly, let us say the deposit
required on initially selling or
buying a contract would be £75
per contract, or the equivalent
of £5 a bale.
■puTURES contracts are simply
promissory - notes, and
when you sell a contract you
promise to deliver on to the
market that number of bales
at that price in the month in
which you have sold. If you
do not wish to give delivery
of the wool you merely buy a
contract, which is buying a
promise to take delivery of the
same number of bales in the
same month one promise
cancels out the other —the
difference in price between your
selling figure and your buying
figure being your profit or loss
on the futures transaction.
If, on the other hand, the
market should decline after
you have operated by selling
a contract and you let it run
to maturity, you will receive
less for your wool at auction,
but be able to buy back your
contract at less than the price
at which you sold it.
The first criticism normally
levelled at futures trading is
that it involves speculation. In
this regard I would suggest
that the woolgrower is forced
to speculate from the time he
puts sheep onto grass, as he
has so many unknown factors
with which to contend, such as
drought, grasshoppers, flood,
variable wool prices, etc.
Apart from that, however, it
is, of course, necessary to have
speculators use the market in
order to spread the risk. No
one in his right mind would
expect that each day when the
market opens there will be the
same number of selling-orders
in the market from wool-
growers as there are buying
orders from manufacturers or
merchants. The speculator is
necessary to fill the gap.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THETRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“Man and Superman”
By choosing “Man and
Superman” for the second
venture of their opening
season, the Trust Players, at
Sydney Elizabethan, set them-
selves a problem: how to get
the play across without letting
its prosy preaching get the
belter of its wit, and without
revealing that time has drained
away all but a touch of its
original force, leaving only the
surface brilliance. And by
almost solving this problem,
they set one for the re-
viewer: how to prevent his
opinion of the play from blind-
ing him to any of the many
excellences of the production.
In speaking of the play’s
lack of impact it must be stated
early that the Trust is playing
the version which leaves out
the delightful “Don Juan in
Hell” episode (that this abridge-
ment is becoming customary is
a sorry comment on our
clock-watching attitude to
theatre).
So here we have Shaw
garrulously attacking the
sexual romanticism which
springs from the hypocrisy of
insisting that men take the
initiative in courtship while
“the serious business of sex”
is left to women. This he does
by presenting woman as the
eternal creator who will do
almost anything to fulfil her
function of motherhood. So
well has she mastered her
“serious business” that even
a man like Jack Tanner, who
has reasoned his way above
social humbug, is unable to
escape her nets.
Maybe Shaw’s basic argu-
ments still hold, but many of
the notions and manners
around which they were de-
veloped have collapsed, and
the play now seems mostly to
be shadow-boxing.
But Robin Lovejoy’s produc-
tion—lively, imaginative and
nearly flawless in balance—-
made the shadow-boxing about
as sparkling as one imagines it
could be made ; and the Trust
team carried his acute percep-
tions into thorough and
splendid effect.
Dinah Shearing, as the pur-
suing female, raised many of
her lines almost to the plane
of music. There was some-
thing musical, too, in her pre-
sence and movements —a touch
of that Mozartian quality
which is always in the best of
Shaw.
As Tanner, Ron Haddrick
displayed an unfaltering com-
mand of technique and played
some fine duets with Miss
Shearing, but here and there
in the long social sermons he
tended to lose the necessary
spirit of levity and slip into
an attitude of mere irritability.
Members of the Feld String Quartet, who flew in from Los Angeles at two days’ notice
to take-over the cancelled Barylli Quartet’s engagements under Musica Viva’s house-
flag, and who are now giving concerts in Sydney. From left to right: Osso Feld,
first violin ( leader); Peter Halmi, second violin ; George Szende, viola; Wladyslaw,
Przybyla, ’cello.
Frank Waters, though his
method was more often that of
farce than of true comedy,
made a good symbol of the
whiskered Edwardian hypoc-
risy Shaw was attacking ; and
Patricia Conolly was appealing
as the girl who has caught her
man and is tying him, and his
father’s money, securely into
her future.
The rest of the cast was
uniformly strong in its support
—notably Grant Taylor, as the
self-sufficient mechanic (a
portrait into which Shaw put
much of the romanticism he
took out of the sex-war) ; Neil
Fitzpatrick, as the overdevoted
poet ; Rodney Milgate, as the
young American snared by
Miss Conolly; and Neva Carr
Glyn, as the complacent
matron.
<s►
Malko and Souzay
In the second series of sub-
scription concerts, with the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra
under Nicolai Malko, French
baritone Gerard Souzay
quickly made it clear that in
the matter of vocal chords,
interpretation and personality,
he is very handsomely equipped.
He began with Monteverdi’s
“Salve Regina,” the long, flow-
ing phrases of which yielded a
rich resonance and a legato
made to seem easy by near-
perfect breath-control. His
singing on the half-voice
while still in first gear—always
difficult for a baritone—was
altogether admirable.
Haydn’s “With Joy the
Impatient Husbandman,” from
“The Seasons,” was lusty and
cheerful. “O Star of Eve,” from
“Tannhauser,” was another
splendid display of legato
singing, but whereas that of
the Monteverdi song was
deeply spiritual, the rhapsody
inherent in this was given a
step-down to earth.
Souzay’s most impressive
work went into Mephisto's
Serenade from Berlioz’s
“Damnation of Faust.” Only
rarely is this aria invested with
such a degree of sardonic
wickedness and cynical humor
as Souzay imparted to it.
The night’s major work for
the orchestra was Berlioz’s
“Symphonie Fantastique,” that
highly-tinted piece of pure
romanticism whose twin inspir-
ations were Goethe’s “Faust”
and the charms of the Irish
actress Henrietta Smithson.
It was, by and large, a solid
rather than a brilliant reading,
always forceful and compelling.
Malko made a keen evalu-
ation of the changing moods,
kept a firm rein on the wild-
ness and the fevers, and played-
up, without overplaying, the
dramatic highlights. Yet the
March to the Scaffold conveyed
something less than the
alternating sombreness and
brilliance which the composer's
programme called for; and
Malko found full grotesquerie
sometimes hard to capture in
the concluding “Witches’
Sabbath.”
Haydn’s Symphony No. 83
in G Minor, a stream of
engaging melodies and
harmonies in the master’s most
lucid style, effervesced gaily,
with the first movement cer-
tainly giving no hint of the
“surprising seriousness” which
his biographer Geiringer pro-
fessed to see in it. Even the
meditative andante never
detracted from the work’s
bright sunshine.
In Handel’s Concerto
Grosso, Op. 6 No. 2, which
completed the programme, the
conductor held a good balance
between the small group of
solo instruments and the main
body of strings, and gave
crispness to the rhythmic
measures.
❖ ♦> *z*
A Handel Concert
Deciding that the bicentenary
of Handel’s death should not
pass unnoticed, a group of
Sydney instrumentalists gave
George Frederick a couple of
hours’ hearing in Paling's Con-
cert Hall.
There was a genuine harpsi-
chord, beautifully grained,
blending with the impeccable
backdrop of wooden panels ;
blending, too, with Donald


It takes less than
1 hour to erect this low cost
2000 bushel grain bin!
(1,000 Bushel Type
also available)
The Lysaght Universal Grain
Bin not only saves the cost and
wastage involved in bagging,
but also effects a major saving
in time and labour because it
can be erected in under one
hour . . . dismantled just as
quickly . . . and stored in a
surprisingly small space !
Grain with a moisture content
as high as 14% can be stored
with safety. Suitable for a wide
variety of crops, the Lysaght
Universal Grain Bin is
especially recommended for the
storage of wheat, oats, maize,
milo and sorghum. And note
especially fodder conserva-
tion expenses are tax deductible.
m
• ■
wm
• : -
Easily erected
within existing
farm buildings
Quickly dis-
mantled ;stored
in minimum
space '
Rodent-proof
galvanized steel
sheet surround.
Available with
Auger Chute or
Grain Outlet
Specially designed for
SHORT TERM INDOOR STORAGE
The Lysaght Universal Grain Bin has walls of high
tensile, flexible galvanized steel mesh lined with
rot-proofed hessian. The central ventilating tube
and porous bin wail allow free circulation of air
around and through the grain, keeping it in first-
class condition.
Protect seed grain, small
quantities of feed wheat in
a Lysaght small capacity
silo. Easily erected, per-
manent, rodent-proof,
weatherproof. Sizes in-
clude 250 bushel elevated
(below), 200 and 500
bushels.
A
UNIVERSAL ORABN BIN
(Australian Patent No. 213098)
m
...
ms&&i
Dimensions
1,000 bushels capacity. 14' 9" di-
ameter x7' 6" high. Packed weight
0.3.3.8 approx. Price F.O.R. New-
castle £6O
2,000 bushels capacity. 14' 9" di-
ameter x 14' 6" high. Packed weight
0.6.0.8. approx. Price F.O.R. New-
castle £97
John Lysaght (Australia) Pty. Ltd.,
P.O. Box 24, George St. Nth., N.S.W.
RP4AN
Hazelwood’s solo violin in the
A Major Sonata. In the
andante it seemed that the
’cello (Barbara Woolley)
pushed itself forward above
the tintinnabulations of the
harpsichord, distorting the out-
lines of this songlike move-
ment ; and the violin might
have been more at ease ; but in
the allegro following, a highly
organised chase, there was more
confidence in the string tone.
The adagio finished with a
cadence freely ornamented by
the harpsichord ' and the last
movement, another allegro, was
a true huntsman’s piece in
miniature, with six sparkling
beats to the bar.
Miss White played two
suites for harpsichord ; in the
B Flat Major suite the prelude
was all tinselled rippling, Miss
White scooting up and dowm
the keyboard as if it were a
zither; in the theme-and-
variations section there was
some inaccuracy in timing in
the first statement, notwith-
standing a pleasant alternation
of soft and loud tone and the
showers of pearly ornaments
enriching the baroque frame-
work. The minuet was a con-
trast: set in a minor key and
studded with limpid trills. The
other suite, in G Minor, had a
prelude cast in the style of a
pre-Bach organ toccata, a
courante with some interesting
double trills, and a gigue built
basically on chordal progres-
sions through related keys.
In “Hush! Ye Pretty
Warbling Quire” soprano
Bernadette Quinn displayed a
truly pretty voice, although on
higher notes she might try to
sing out, rather than in. Here
Trevor Jones played a sopra-
nino recorder; and later, in
the C Minor Sonata for flute
and continuo, he switched to
bassoon. Peter Richardson
handled the flute passages well,
even if in one spot he was
slightly out of tune with the
ensemble.
A. W.
♦t*
‘‘The Skin of Our Teeth
In the hands of Melbourne
University D.C. this Thornton
Wilder play started awkwardly,
got into its stride, and finished
in a rush of platitudes.
Somebody has called it an
epitome of the history of man-
kind told as a comic-strip, and
like a comic-strip it has its
moments of farce and drama
and others where it seems the
creator ran out of ideas and
just had to pad-out a few
scenes. But, choked as it is
with theatrical tricks, it does
succeed in getting across its
message, which has something
to do with survival.
The Antrobus family, as
symbols of mankind, are shown
as, successively, Adam and
Eve, Noah and his wife and
two 20th-century Yank parents
overcoming a series of
disasters.
Mr. Antrobus has some-
thing of the visionary about
him—he invents a wheel, etc.
—and he is one of the few
who heed the fortuneteller’s
warning that the world is about
to be flooded. Mrs. Antrobus,
devoted to the family idea,
constantly plants herself in the
way of her husband’s dream-
ing, whether it be to carry out
some great project or to run
off with the Lilith-like Sabina,
This Sabina is quite a girl,
Wonderfully portrayed by
Anne Harvey, she skips across


thousands of years, only rarely
losing her buoyancy and her
faith in a vague future, most
likely misconstrued.
Comedy is always present.
Wilder has enough theatrical
cunning to display the awful
sameness that has stuck with
human - beings ever since
Creation —the same desires,
conflicts, repressions and
frustrations, the constant will
to live, to rebuild after disaster,
and the inability to reconcile
the simplest conflict, which
raise the question, for
what reason does man go
“stumbling,- bumbling down
the ages?”
The Antrobuses were well
characterised by lan Harrison
and Germaine Greer, and their
wayward, weakling son by
Paul Clarkson.
Keith Macartney’s produc-
tion was competent and
imaginative.
M. G. S.
Artbursts
Fred Jessup
Fred Jessup’s paintings of
flowers and fruit at Sydney
Macquarie Galleries are
spacious, elegant, formal,
bright but not extravagant in
color, flat, essentially decora-
tive.
Jn a sense this may be an
adverse criticism of them. They
say all they have to say at
the first impact; they speak
more to the eye than to the
spirit; they please without
exciting. The zinnias and
cosmos, in their bright, un-
modulated colors, have little
relation to life, neither are they
profoundly alive in their own
right as an adventure in paint.
But if this is in one sense a
criticism, in another sense it is
a compliment; for that is
precisely what they set out to
do. They are to make a grace-
ful pattern and a sense of
space on the wall, and they
do that admirably.
One of the finest is “Three
Thistledowns,” very gay with
its red background, and
possibly unique among con-
temporary flowerpieces by
male artists in that the formal
little cogwheels of the zinnias—
women flowerpainters are
usually much too subtle to
bother with them —are offset
by an iris and the three aston-
ishingly large thistledowns.
<* ❖ i*
Japanese Prints
The lovely Japanese prints
showing at Joshua McClelland’s
print-room in Collins Street,
Melbourne, date from the mid-
18th century, but it was nearly
100 years later that Western
artists first became aware of
their existence. They were then
popular currency in Japan
and almost a common language.
In pre-war days the present
writer used to hire a rickshaw
in Kyoto, and the human pony
between the shafts trotted him
round to all the surrounding
monuments of Japanese archi-
tecture. While the writer gawk-
ed at monasteries and temples
the pony sat on the grass,
fetched-out an exercise-book
and drew the landscape, women
walking through rain, and so
forth. His sketches were
“ Now —there's No TV on between 9 a.m. and 12
tomorrow —so I'll come and talk to you then.”
quite nice. He gave some to
the writer, who showed them
later to a connoisseur in Aus-
tralia, who mistook them for
Old Masters.
The middle of last century
an enterprising Jap saw possi-
bilities in popular prints, raked
the country clean and took
enormous numbers of them to
Paris. He didn’t know that he
was starting almost an
artistic revolution in fact,
they knocked European artists,
sick of the academic tradition
then current, endways. Whistler
himself thought they gave back
much more of Nature than his
own pictures, and he imported
their form, if not their content,
into the famous portrait of
his mother and of Ruskin.
The same influence is seen in
Van Gogh’s landscapes.
The fashion has worn itself
out, and Europe has paid
Japan back by giving it Picasso,
but the prints still hold their
attraction. Among the most
charming are Hiroshige’s
“Shower at Nihonbashi” and
“A Landscape with Beauties
Wading in a Stream,” by
Yeizan.
❖ ❖ ❖
Rolf Harris
An exhibition of paintings
by Rolf Harris, formerly of
W.A. and lately of London, is
at the Claude Hotchin gallery,
Perth.
His most interesting work is
a number of pictures, mostly
in oils, with a few delicate
watercolors, treating light-
effects in English mists and
London fogs. The portraits,
among which are two that
have been exhibited at the
Royal Academy, include
several self-portraits; “Night
Desk, Fleet Street,” an excel-
lent study of an expatriated
Perth journalist; and “Mrs.
Mandy (Barmaid of The King’s
Head),” a fine treatment of the
battle-axe type of London
barmaid.
Except for a couple of pic-
tures at the opening of the
Skinner Gallery, this is the
first showing of Rolf Harris’s
work in Australia.
Bolivar.
Films
“Wind Across the Ever-
glades”
Photographed in the Florida
Everglades, in beautiful muted
tones, and by a master-crafts-
man, who, in shot after shot,
captures superbly some aspect
of the teeming natural life, this
film tells a good story with
razor-sharp characterisations.
Set at the turn of the century,
when the abundant bird-life of
the Everglades was being ruth-
lessly decimated for plumage
to embellish the extravagant
hats of the period, it describes
the determined efforts of a
dedicated young warden to put
into effect the game-laws which
are being contemptuously
flouted. He stacks-up against
the chief supplier of the for-
bidden plumage, Burl Ives, who
tyrannically rules in the heart
of the swamp a queerly assorted
gang of bird-shooters.
When the warden rashly tries
to arrest the gang-leader, Ives
merrily challenges him to a
hooch-swilling contest. He
accepts, and this starts a
Bacchanalian orgy, to the
accompaniment of a wild rain-
storm.
The tyrant then consents to
be taken in for trial on condi-
tion that they travel by canoe
and are armed each with a
rifle. Tension is finely sustained
in this final sequence, and even
a touch of melodrama before
the final fade-out cannot
weaken the film’s solid
dramatic impact.
Ives gives one of his best
characterisations, and he gets
firm support from McKinley
Kantor, as a gin-bibbing ex-
judge ; and Christopher Plum-
mer, manly as the warden.
At Sydney Esquire.
“Houseboat”
A widower, harassed by
accommodation troubles, in-
law troubles and the intransi-
gence of his three children,
takes-on simultaneously a dila-
pidated houseboat and a
beautiful Italian housemaid.
The kids are soon eating out
of the maid’s hand, but snob-
bish eyebrows are raised when
the widower takes her to a
country-club dance. She turns-
out to be the rebellious, high-
spirited daughter of a stern
orchestral conductor.
The basic idea could have
been developed into natural
and sparkling comedy, but the
director has covered it with
mawkish sentiment, and the
result is a hollow confection.
Cary Grant, usually at home
in such light comedy, is badly
handicapped by stodgy situa-
tions and trite dialogue.
Sophia Loren is inadequate to
the part of the maid.
At Sydney Prince Edward.


Telegraphic and Cable address: “Brownhills.”
Telephone: BW 1165 (3 lines).
A. H. BROWNHILL & CO.
(A. H. Brownhill, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
27 O’Connell Street -------- - Sydney
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771 —BW 8088
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Freighters, Ltd.
Well clear of the extraordinary prob-
lems which contributed to the profit-
collapse in 1956-57, Freighters, Ltd.,
picked-up a lot of lost ground last term
and last month reported that both earn-
ings and turnover for the half-year to
December 31 were ahead of the corre-
sponding figures for the preceding term.
Although the interim report doesn’t
necessarily mean a great deal, as sales
for the first quarter of 1957-58 were
previously described as unsatisfactory, the
reorganisation of the co. over the last
couple of years does appear to have
strengthened its earning-potential and, by
broadening the range of products, to
have placed the organisation on a firmer
basis than hitherto. An interim div. of
3| p.c. will be paid at the end of this
month and there should be no difficulty
in, at least, maintaining last term’s 1\
p.c. div.-rate.
At the same time, a large part of
Freighters’ business is still tied-up with
the fortunes of road-hauliers, particu-
larly the inter-State operator, and, while
there is a growing market for the co.’s
specialised vehicles, such as tankers and
other bulk-carriers, fears of excessively
restrictive legislation, as well as the lack
of uniform road-regulations, continue to
limit opportunities for boosting sales of
heavy trailer-equipment, one of the co.’s
basic lines.
Acknowledging this situation, Freighters
some years ago began the manufacture
of bulk-handling containers for use with
either road or rail transport and in the
1956 term extended its manufacturing-
interests to include fork - lift trucks,
passenger-buses and general body-build-
ing by the purchase of J. A. Lawton and
Sons, Ltd., of Adelaide. The South Aus-
tralian subsidiary has since had some
success with a new line of buses and has
re-established earlier affiliations with
Towmotor Corp., a leading U.S. manufac-
turer of fork-lift trucks and similar
equipment.
Keeping up with possible trends, the
eo. last year joined with International
Piggy-Back, Inc., in Piggy-Back (Aus-
tralia) Pty., and with A. E. Goodwin,
Ltd. (Sydney), which recently acquired
a holding in the new pty. co., has been
licensed to manufacture equipment used
in the piggy-back system of carrying
road-trailers on specially-designed rail-
cars. Another recent development has
been the decision to produce small fibre-
glass boats at the Freighter-Lawton plant
in South Aust.
Over the last financial year the group
claims to have obtained 71 p.c, of the
recorded trade in articulated trailer-
equipment, trailers, generally, accounting
for 56.9 p.c. of its £2,750,000 turnover ;
buses and coaches for 24.3 p.c.; fork-
lift trucks for 12.6 p.c. and miscellaneous
items for 6.2 p.c.
Group-headquarters are in Melbourne,
and there are factories in all capital-cities,
a small export-trade helping to swell total
income. The parent co. has an all-ord.
capital of £938,438.
In the latter half of 1956, an in-
quiry under the Victorian Companies
Act into the circumstances surround-
ing certain share - issues led to con-
siderable internal dissension and,
eventually, to some drastic changes in
the composition of the board. Earnings
slumped from £176,364 to £11,359 in the
1957 term, a heavy stock write-down
contributing to the fall, as did a slip in
turnover, legal costs and various board
or management problems arising, directly
and indirectly, from the inquiry. Share-
holders went empty-handed, after having
received a 15 p.c. div. in each of the
four preceding years, the new board in-
dicating that the bumper profits claimed
in 1955 and 1956 would have been re-
duced noticeably had stocks been valued
on a more realistic basis.
Aided by a big contract for buses from
the S.A. Tramways Trust and by the
tax-relief afforded by earlier subsidiary-
losses, the group was able to show a
net profit of £114,823 last term after
providing £20,804 (down £21,074) for tax
and £49,687 (up £2656) for deprecia-
tion :
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. f Dividends , serves. serves.*
£ £ £ £
Profit sale assets, £241 .. .. 251,963
1953. .100,054 15 p.c. = 75,000 25,054 277,017
Share-premiums, £50,000 .. .. 327,017
Profit sale assets, £28,801 .. .. 355,818
1954.. 92,919 15 p.c. = 90,000 2,919 358,737
Share-premiums, £l5OO .. .. 360,237
Add on consolidation, £93,829 . . 454,066
Profit sale assets, £2721 . . . . 456,787
Unexplained addition, £7070 .. 463,857
1955. .159,842 15 p.c. =135,926 23,916 487,773
Profit sale assets, £8509 . . . . 496,282
Establishment expenses w/off, £6980 489,302
Unexplained addition, £9986 . . 499,288
Added on purchase of subsid., £3634 502,922
1956. .176,364 15 p.c. =138,346 38,018 540,940
Freeholds revalued, £215,594 , . 756,534
Profit sale assets, £30,621 . . . . 787,155
Establishment expenses w/off, £29,732 757,423
To prov. 1.-s. leave, £lO,OOO .. 747,423
Unexplained reduction, £1232 .. 746,191
1957.. 11,359 11,359 757,550
Tax underprovided, £6ll .. .. 756,939
Profit sale assets, £8857 . . . . 765,796
Development exp., etc., w/off, £5714 760,082
1958. .114,823 74 p.c. = 70,383 44,440 804,522
* Subject to intangibles, £28,718 at 30/6/’5B.
Shareholders came back into the picture
with a p.c. div., the profit representing
a return of 12.2 p.c. on share-capital, as
against 1.1 p.c., 19.2 p.c. and 17.6 p.c.
in the three years back to 1955. Accounts
for the current year will include a sum
of £22,200 received in settlement of
writs issued against certain past directors
after an examination of the findings of
the 1956 inquiry.
The relatively low earning-rate dis-
played by Freighters last term and the
wide asset-cover for the scrip (9s. Id.
a ss. share, at June 30 last), together
with the co.’s prominent position in the
trailer trade and reputation as a bus-
builder, tempted Clyde Industries into a
takeover bid late last year. Clyde, which,
among numerous other things, is a bus-
builder and manufacturer of trailers and
fork-lift trucks, made two bites at the
cherry, the higher offer being one ss.
ord. in Clyde plus Is. 6d. in cash for
every two ss. ords. in Freighters. The
offers, both of which would have reduced
shareholders’ dividend-income, were re-
jected by the board.
There have been some marked changes
in Freighters’ financial structure over
the last two terms, and, on the whole,
the movements have left finances in better
trim than they were at the end of the
1956 term. Funds released by the sale
of surplus freeholds and by the transfer,
to General Credits, Ltd., of the group’s
hire-purchase business have covered ex-
tensions to a number of plants as well
as a substantial cut in the bank overdraft,
while a batch of long-outstanding book-
debts has been cleaned-up and a stricter
method adopted in the valuation of
stocks (still shown, however, at “cost or
valuation”):
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1956. 1957. 1958.
Paid capital . . £938,438 £938,438 £938,438
Reserves . . . . 540,940 757,550 804,522
Outside interests.. 16,667 16,667 19,690
Overdraft 897,402 717,115 608,585
Creditors, etc. . . 460,395 228,226 326,965
Prov. 1.-s. leave.. 10,000 10,000
Tax provision .. 109,835 52,758 20,804
Final div. .. 70,383 35,192
£3,034,060 £2,720,754 £2,764,196
Freeholds .. . 770,084 842,652 7515,773
Plant .. .. .735,642 848,682 837,289
£1,505,726 £1,691,334 £1,593,062
Less depreciation 258,711 282,430 314,157
£1,247,015 £1,408,904 £1,278,905
Shares other cos. 11,908 11,908 11,908
Deferred debts . . 32,404
Stock . . . . 1,286,903 1,003,149 .1,102,889
Sundry debtors, etc. 452,221 266,726 307,312
Cash .. . . 7,759 3,621 2.060
Intangibles .. 28,254 26,446 28,718
£3,034,060 £2,720,754 £2,764,196
At June 30 last the ratio of current
liabilities,, etc., to current assets was
1:1.45 as against 1:1.13 two years
earlier, working-capital rising by £233,894
to £442,762 over the period. Freeholds
were revalued in 1957.
Heavy ton - mile taxes and continued
restrictions on the activities of long-
distance hauliers will probably work
against any great improvement in sales
and earnings in the current term. How-
ever, while unification of the rail-gauge


A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. Jj. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, R. A. McINNES, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Fife Building:,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2701 (4 Lines) P.O. Box No. 1887 W
between Sydney and Melbourne should
produce keener competition for inter-
state operators, ailing State railways
appear more inclined to curtail, rather
than extend, freight-services on less-
profitable lines, the long-term outlook
favoring the steady expansion of the
road-transport industry as a whole.
At 6s. 2d. Freighters’ ss. ords. would
return £6 Is. Bd. p.c. from a p.c. div.,
the yield rising by a little under 16s. 3d.
p.c. for every 1 p.c. added to the div.-rate.
A. G. Healing, Ltd.
■O ocketed to a record height last term,
the turnover of A. G. Healing, Ltd.,
continued to climb in the first half of
the current year, taking ord. shareholders
well on the way towards their tenth
successive 15 p.c. div.
Earnings for the six months to Decem-
ber 31 are reported to have been held
at the peak level reached last term
during which the TV-boom helped to
lift net profit by over 40 p.c. —despite a
“temporary recession” in the automotive
spare-parts trade, in which A. G. Healing
is a leading wholesaler.
As a manufacturer, the co. turns-out
TV-receivers, radios, vacuum-cleaners,
refrigerators, bicycles (all marketed
under the Healing label), auto-
matic and semi - automatic washing-
machines, Gabriel automatic shock-
absorbers and metal-finishing machinery.
Quite an old hand at the finance game,
the Healing organisation was carrying
almost £2,500,000 in h.-p. and other
debts at June 30 last, h.-p. transactions
being handled by the 30-year-old off-
shoot, R. and G. Finances Pty., which
finances wholesale trading as well as
sales by the group’s own retail-outlets.
The comprehensive spare-parts divi-
sion showed signs of picking-up early
in the current year and, although the
expected stimulus to TV sales, from the
extension of TV services, may come too
late in the term to offset finer margins
and a weakening in demand in Sydney
and Melbourne, another good result
seems assured. The co. has been fortu-
nate, too, in the timing of its re-entry
into the refrigerator field, the first of the
new models appearing late in 1958 on
a gradually-strengthening market.
The principal Healing factories are
centred around Melbourne, an Australia-
wide market being served through ware-
houses in all mainland capitals, Laun-
ceston, Canberra, Newcastle and Albury.
Branches are also established in a num-
ber of Melbourne suburbs and Victorian
country centres.
Founded in Melbourne in 1896, the
business grew-up around the manufac-
ture of bicycles, spreading-out to include
the distribution of radio components and
automotive parts and accessories a couple
of years before the public was offered
a share in 1927. Since then the co. has
only once failed to show a profit (in
1931) and ord. shareholders, who lost
a quarter of their capital at the time,
can count 1931 and 1932 as their only
dry years.
Swift and profitable growth, en-
couraged by expanding markets and
enterprising management, pushed net
earnings from £63,882 to £273,968 over
the six years to 1951, some sharp fluctua-
tions in subsequent terms and a one-
for-one par issue in 1952 failing to halt
the run of 15 p.c. divs.
The co. has relied on borrowed funds
and undistributed profits to finance much
of its post-war expansion, including the
growing swag of h.-p. outstandings, but
ord. shareholders were given an oppor-
tunity to increase their holdings last
November when one new ord. was
offered, at par, for every two already
held. The issue increased ord. capital
to £975,000 and total paid capital to
£1,587,500, 6 p.c. prefs. accounting for
£475,200 of this total; 8 p.c. prefs. for
£74,800; and employee-scrip (redeem-
able, fully participating, 3 p.c. prefs.)
for £62,500. At June 30 last borrowed
funds (overdraft, mortgage, notes and
loans) stood at £3,143,371.
Group turnover, less than £3,000,000
in the 1949 term, rose by £1,701,000 to
£10,393,000 last year, the sales of the
Sydney branch “challenging,” for the
first time, those of the Melbourne office.
All sections of, the organisation con-
tributed to the record £277,144 net profit,
arrived at after providing £189,575 for
taxation (up £50,831) and £112,002 (up
£19,730) for depreciation:
A. G. Healing and Subsidiaries.
t Dividends N
< — Ord. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 & 8 p.c. 15 p.c. serves, serves.*
£,££££
To staff fund, £12,501 .. ..1,082,488
Intangibles appear, £8325 .. .. 1,074,163
Profit sale assets, £4296 .. .. 1,078,459
Unexplained additions, £6346 . . 1,084,405
1953 . . 139,471 8,996 106,875 23,600 1,108,405
To staff fund, £13,019 .. .. 1,095,386
Profit sale assets, £9528 .. .. 1,104,914
Unexplained additions, £23,613 .. 1,128,527
1954 . . 177,499 8,996 106,875 61,628 1,190,155
To staff fund, £17,755 .. ..1,172,400
Profit sale assets, £3268 . . 1,175,668
Share-issue expenses w/of£, : £3618. .1,172,050
Unexplained addition, £4946 . . 1,176,996
1955 .. 225,464 22,746 106,875 95,843 1,272,839
To staff fund, £18,866 .. .. 1,253,973
To sundry provisions, £56,079 .. 1,197,894
Profit sale assets, £4762 . . .. 1,202,656
Less added intangibles, £6557 .. 1,196,099
To staff fund, £14,866 .. ..1,181.233
1956 .. 172,575 34,496 106,875 31,204 1,212,437
Add reduction intangibles, £2185 .. 1,214,622
Profit sale assets, £40,782 .. 1,255,404
To staff fund, £19,866 .. .. 1,235,-538
1957 . . 195,708 34,496 106,875 54,337 1.289,875
Less added intangibles, £2363 .. 1,287,512
To staff fund, £21,663 . . . . 1,265,849
Profit sale assets, £12.297 .. .. 1,278,146
1958 .. 277,144 34,496 106.875 135,773 1,413,919
* After deducting intangibles, now £6736.
Up £81,436, the earnings covered the
pref. divs. and 34 p.c. on ord. and em-
ployee capital, combined, (or over 23
p.c. on the present figure), compared with
22.6, 19.3 and 28.4 p.c. in the three years
back to 1955. Scrip issued in the current
term will miss out on the next interim
div. usually paid in June or July.
Part of the fresh share-capital was
intended to replace loan-money support-
ing successfully-developed projects, but
the need to preserve agreed borrowing-
ratios also appears to have been a~factor
in the issue. There seems no reason to
expect a change in the board’s under-
standable preference for outside money
(at present well covered by current assets)
and the co. upped the interest-rates on
deposits, etc., last October to help main-
tain the inflow of funds.
A further £441,275 of short-term loan-
money was raised last term, while de-
ferred liabilities were increased by
£168,207, and, with the help of retained
earnings, provisions and an extra
£109,282 in creditors, the group outlayed
a net £336,079 on fixed assets and built-up
book-debts by a sizeable £551,280. The
overdraft was reduced by £193,245 but
the somewhat heavier capital-expenditure,
related, mainly, to the purchase of a
large property in Adelaide, left the
current-asset surplus £43,828 lighter at
£2,113,614. There was a small slip in.
stocks (down £91,100) which, with book-
debts, accounted for 73 p.c. of all assets.
Stocks are shown at the lower of cost
or replacement-value and book-debts
after deducting provision for doubtful
debts, etc., the strength of organisation
depending largely on the value of these
items:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1956. 1957. 1958.
Pref £550,000 £550,000 £550,000
Ord 712,500 712,500 712,500
Reserves .. .. 1,218,995 1,294,248 1,420,655
Mortgages .. 570,336 620,525 831,007
Notes . . .. 3.00,000 300,000 300,000
Loans-deferred .. 309,750 267,475
Loalis-current .. 97,081 153,625 594.900
Overdraft . . .. 1,561,571 1,343,234 1,149,989
Creditors .. .. 660,883 833,566 942,848
H.-p. provision .. 70,695 • 81,643 147,725
Sundry provisions 36,453 54.523
Staff funds .. 28,752 19,866 19,163
Tax provision .. 196,557 153,188 215,845
Final div. .. 124,123 124,123 124,123
£6,091,493 £6,532,721 £7,330,753
Freeholds.. .. 974,854 1,107,603 1,362,147
Plant, etc. .. 449,303 517,605 599,140
Stock . . .. 2,931,013 2,989,006 2,897,906
Debtors, etc. .. 1,722,969 1,911,365 2,462,645
Cash, bonds, etc... 6,796 2,769 2,179
Intangibles .. 6,558 4,373 6,736
£6,091,493 £6,532,721 £7,330,753
While the provision of credit is
obviously a profitable angle of the busi-
ness, it is unlikely to lessen, and could,
possibly, increase the sensitivity of earn-
ings to changes in economic conditions.
H.-p. debtors aren’t shown separately
in the accounts but would appear to
amount to over £1,250,000.
The substantial reserves are reflected
by the net tangible cover of 12s. 3d. a
ss. ord. (including the new scrip) and,
apart from a minor write-up in 1948,
there has been no revaluation of fixed
assets.
At 13s. the “old” ords. would return
£5 15s. sd. p.c. from a 15 p.c. div., the


p Be sure
you'll hai
V
ve
3^
sS^
MONEY
WHEN
YOU
NEED
IT
ASSL/RE sc/equatgfy with the
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Inc. in Qld., 1895)
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
“new” scrip, being fairly well
in line, after allowing for divi-
dend difference, etc., at around
12s. 6d.
Queensland National
Pastoral Co., Ltd.
Asa grazier and pastoralist,
Queensland National
Pastoral Co. suffered at the
hands of both the weather and
the wool-market over the year
to December 31 last. Trading
receipts from cattle- and wool-
sales fell by a third, and the co.
distributed all but £899 of its
sharply-reduced net profit to
maintain the 20 p.c. div.-rate
on pref. and ord. capital.
Average results are, of course,
a better guide than year-by-
year figures to the investment
value of scrip in concerns like
Q.N.P. and, operating under
fair to favorable conditions,
the co. has performed reason-
ably well over the last decade,
the div.-rate averaging 15.1 p.c.
for that period. .
However, in the 10 years to
1948 the average ord. payout
was only 4.2 p.c., while earlier
efforts were anything but suc-
cessful —unless one cares to
look back 40 years or so- —
87£ p.c. of the ord. capital
going overboard in 1932 to
clear an accumulated deficit of
£525,000. Nevertheless, from
the point of view of the
present-day investor, the
capital write-down and the
more recent effects of inflation
have reduced the effective
capitalisation to a point where
a pretty mean run of seasons
and prices would be needed to
leave big gaps in the future
dividend-record.
At the end of last term
Q.N.P. held 9132 square-miles
of leasehold land in the far-
west of Queensland, and across
the border in N.T., along with
45,917 acres of freehold land
on the Queensland east coast.
As indicated by the location of
the properties, the co. is
primarily interested in beef
cattle, with woolgrowing as a
secondary and considerably
smaller source of income.
Paid capital adds up to
£325,000, of which £250,000
carries a cumulative 6 p.c. and
participates above that point;
the 17s. 6d. a share lopped-off
ord. scrip in 1932 leaving ord.
capital at £75,000 in 2s. 6d.
shares.
Dry conditions reduced turn-
off of fat cattle last term and
cut brandings by 57 p.c., cattle
sales dropping by 3542 head
to 9053 head. In value, sales
fell by £60,619 to £298,350, an
increase of £4 9s. 2d. in the
average price for head failing
to compensate for the big
decline in numbers.
The 246 bales of wool sold
during the year realised an aver-
age of £62 3s. 4d. a bale (down
£34 11s. lOd.) but lower prices
and a smaller clip were only
partly responsible for the sharp
drop in the wool-cheque (down
£63,566 at £15,293), the pre-
vious year’s sales (815 bales)
including 462 bales carried-
over from the 1956 as a result
of the shearers’ strike in that
year. Gross profit from all
trading activities was down
£73,141, at £338,108, with
income from investments £1450
higher at £21,396 (equal to 6.4
p.c. on share-capital).
Up £26,660 in the 1957 term
(due, largely, to the length of
the pumping-season on the
far-western runs), working ex-
penses edged forward by a
further £264, net profit
tumbling from £89,709 to
£65,899 after making a much
smaller, but undisclosed, pro-
vision for tax and allowing
£37,685 (up £2961) for depre-
ciation : —-
z Dividends-— N Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. serves.
£ £ £ £
10 p.c. 10 p.c.
1952.. 36.077 25,000 7,500 168,302
Unexplained addition, £4668 172,970
15 p.c. 15 p.c.
1953.. 86.987 37,500 11,250 211,202
1954.. 67.148 37,500 11,250 229,600
174 p.c. 174 p.c.
1955.. 75.624 43,750 13,125 248,349
20 p.c. 20 p.c.
1956.. 81,965 50,000 15,000 265,314
1957.. 89,709 50,000 15,000 290,023
1958.. 65.899 50,000 15,000 290,922
Reserves now total £290,922,
all of which has been accumu-
lated since 1944 when a long-
standing deficit was finally
worked-out of the accounts.
With this solid backing safely
behind it, the co. distributed
practically the whole of the
profit, the div.- policy, accord-
ing to chairman D. S. Forbes,
being designed, where possible,
“to help compensate for the
grim years through which the
co. has passed and which it is
quite conceivable could again
be around the corner.” Earn-
ing-rate on combined pref. and
ord. capitals was 20.2 p.c., as
against 27.6 p.c. in 1957 and
25.2, 23.3, 20.6 and 26.7 p.c.
back to 1953.
Q.N.P. was recently granted
a new 30-year-lease of its
Lucknow holding (661 i sq.-
miles in the extreme west of
Queensland) subject to normal
development and stocking con-
ditions. To comply with lease-
conditions and to benefit its
own operations the co. has
spent £335,411 on capital-
improvements since 1949, last
term’s share of this sum
amounting to £55,238, of which
£33,386 went on bores, tanks,
etc., and £16,832 on fencing.
To cover the outlay- and the
proportion of the profit tied-up
in livestock together with a
£37,692 reduction in creditors,
provisions, etc., the co. went
to the bank for £28,916 and
cut its holding of bonds by
£53,078. However, at Decem-
ber 31 there was still a sizeable
£409,501 in cash, bonds and
shares to provide protection
against the uncertainties of the
business:
Paid capital— 1957. 1958.
Prefei-ence .. £250,000 £250,000
Ordinary .. 75,000 75,000
Reserves .. 290,023 290,922
Overdraft . . 28,916
Creditors, etc.* 452,460 414,768
Dividends .. 65,000 65,000
£1,132,483 £1,124,606
Freehold land .. 27,902 27,903
Plant, fittings .. 83,618 84,056
Leases . . ~ 246,094 273,205
Livestock .. 183,687 195,381
Stores, etc. .. 46,016 47,568
Shares other cos. ..105,654 106,526
Debtors . . 3,459 6,992
Cash, bonds .. 436,053 382,975
£1,132,483 £1,124,606
* Includes provision for taxation and
contingencies.
Cattle-sales and the small
excess of brandings over
natural decrease (down 2131
head at 935 head) left an esti-
mated 81,722 head of cattle on
the runs as against 89,803 head
a year earlier, higher but “safe”
values accounting for the extra
£11,694 against livestock.
Sheep-markings fell from 1152
to 66 and at the end of the
year the co. could muster only
7927 sheep, 5619 fewer than
the total claimed in December,
1956.
The immediate outlook for
the beef-trade is better than it
has been for years. The deple-
tion of Argentinian herds and
the diversion of some N.Z.
beef to North America have
created a strong demand for
good-quality frozen beef in
the U.K. (which takes the bulk
of Australian beef exports),
while the drop in South Ameri-
can production has also helped
to stimulate a profitable trade
in lower-grade cuts with the
U.S. In addition, concessions
under the 15-year meat agree-
ment with the U.K. have open-
ed strong overseas markets to
exports of the lower grades of
Australian beef.
To date the season has
treated Q.N.P. moderately well
and, given reasonable weather
conditions for the rest of the
term, the co. should come-up
with a fatter profit next
December. Unfortunately no
one can guarantee the weather.
At 475. the £1 prefs. would
yield £8 10s. 2d. p.c. from a
20 p.c. div., the 2s. 6d. ords. at
Bs. returning £6 ss. p.c. on the
same basis. Net tangible asset
cover is 475. Bd. prefs. and
4s. 6d. ords.
Camden 7 Gas-flow
-(From L. Owen]
A/Tovement in the search for
gas from the Coal
Measures and the underlying
Marine Series to the overlying
Narrabeen beds on the western
rim of the Sydney Basin is in
the right direction.
The rareness of gas in the
Sydney Basin coalmines —
except for a very few and


BANKING SERVICES
are many and varied
EXPERIENCED COUNSEL
The Bank’s 123 years’ experience
and its wide knowledge of com-
mercial and industrial activities is
freely available to customers who
seek it.
m
INTEREST-BEARING
DEPOSITS
Interest-bearing deposits with this
Bank provide a safe and flexible
means of investment.
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK
FACILITIES
An ever-increasing number of cus-
tomers use the C.B.C. Savings
Bank to make money grow. Open
an account to-day.
TRADE INFORMATION
The C.B.C. welcomes enquiries
regarding market locations and
trade introductions. It provides
a comprehensive service for
all classes of foreign banking
business.
IL* % »Y
n
The
Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
rs
(4>
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. Savings Bank Limited
(DEPOSITS GUARANTEED BY THE PARENT COMPANY)
ephemeral “instantaneous out-
bursts” consisting, in the main,
of carbon-dioxide of no com-
mercial value from faulted
zones —does not lend attraction
to the search, by drilling, for
sizeable and persistent flows
of gas within the Coal
Measures ; nor does the out-
crop and shaft data, from the
well-studied Upper Marine
Series of the Permian, indicate
the possibility of anything
more than uncommercial
shows of liquid petroleum and
gas within that series.
Moreover, the geological his-
tory of the uppermost Permian
and of the basal Trias points
to the probability—amounting
almost to certainty—of the dis-
sipation of any considerable
volumes of gas, had such
existed, at the end of the
Permian.
In my opinion, therefore, the
prospects of striking worth-
while gas appear slender except
where favorable geological
conditions and (as yet un-
discovered) extensive porous
and permeable strata occur
near the base of the Narrabeen
Group. This opinion was con-
firmed by the results obtained
during the sinking of the two
bores at Dural, both of which
failed to encounter such beds.
At Camden, near the base
of the Narrabeen, conditions of
porosity and permeability
appear to be better than at
Dural, but nothing has been
struck which would yet justify
hopes of commercial success.
It was announced, on March
18, that preliminary measure-
ments of a natural-gas strike at
1690 ft. in Camden No. 7 bore
indicated an initial flow ot
1,000,000 cubic-feet per day.
It was also stated that “full
tests for volume and pressure
are to be made over the next
day or two, and when com-
pleted the company will make
a further announcement.”
On March 25 it was reported
that “When the well was shut-
in last weekend after a packer
had been set just above the
gas-sand, the pressure rose to
200 p.s.i. in 40 minutes. It
has since risen gradually to
350 p.s.i. and is still rising.
It is intended to keep the well
shut-in until maximum pres-
sure has been obtained, follow-
ing which it is proposed to take
flow-measurements.”
The latest information is
that the pressure had risen to
415 p.s.i. on April 6 and was
still rising.
An analysis of these rather
meagre data suggests that the
maximum pressure, even after
a long shut-in, will be below
450 p.s.i. On opening-up, the
initial rate of flow may be
spectacular, but the important
information will be the rate of
decline of both pressure and
flow.
Had the gas been under
hydraulic control, the expected
well-bottom pressure would
have been slightly above 800
p.s.i. As it is, volumetric
control in a limited reservoir,
supplemented by a slow feed
through slightly permeable
channels, is indicated.
Thus the estimated initial
flow at the rate of 1,000,000
cubic-feet per day is of little
significance, and there is no
indication in Camden No. 7
bore of a persistent flow
approaching commercial
magnitude.
National Minerals
Qtill making good profits
from the production of
rutile and zircon, National
Minerals Holdings, Ltd., has
sold the whole of its planned
output up to December 1960 at
an average price “substantially
above” that ruling at present.
Results for the half-year to
Dec. 31 were quite up to expec-
tations and in deciding to pay
an interim-div. of Is. 3d. a ss.
share (2s. last year), the board
was influenced, mainly, “by the
immediate prospects of the
rutile market on a short-term
basis.” In a further display of
confidence the co. handed out
bonus-scrip, one-for-five, on
the seventh of this month. No
other capital changes are
planned.


London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
r T"HE growth of the Young
■*- Conservative Association
since 1955 has been significant
and rapid.
Sir Anthony Eden has the
credit for giving stimulus to
this movement. He was ably
backed by the farseeing com-
monsense of Lord Woolton.
Mr. Macmillan, too, has shown
much interest.
The slight pomposity of the
Central Office statement, that
“a delicate balance neither
too much of the one or the
other —has been worked out
between political and social
activities,” is misleading, for
the local organisations need
little guidance. Exactly how
serious-minded, in terms of
instruction on politics and
current affairs, seems to depend
upon the officers. Some have
a widely-based programme of
lectures and others have a
disproportionate number of
five-shilling hops, barbecues,
treasure-hunts and the like.
But the clubs—which is what
they are —flourish because they
offer ready facilities for young
people to come together on a
social level that is equal to or
above that of their own homes.
Although the retiring-age is
30, comparatively few remain
active after 25: if they’re
politically-minded, they gravi-
tate to the parent body ; other-
wise, often enriched by a
partner for life, they slip away
into domesticity. But they
turn up at the polls to vote.
That this offshoot is valued
as a good investment is plain
from the facts that there are
now twelve, full-time paid
organisers, that two delegates
from every branch have the
right to attend the annual con-
ference, and that Young Con-
servatives are represented on
every committee of the party.
Money Miscellany
Not surprisingly, the annual
analysis published by the
London Stock Exchange
reveals a substantial increase
in security values during 1958.
Ordinary shares appreciated by
£3250 million, preference shares
by £lO5O million and newly-
quoted securities accounted
for a further £lOOO million,
making a total increase in
aggregate market-value of
£5300 million. Nominal value
of capital rose by £262 million
to £26,858 million yet this
was the smallest increase for
eight years and a little more
than half that of 1957.
The increase in interest and
dividends was also compara-
tively small (2.3 per cent, on
1957). Ordinary dividends at
£630 millon were only 4.4 per
cent, higher than the previous
year and confirm the falling
trend for the past ten years
or so. The nation’s new pro-
sperity, though, may well pro-
mise a reversal of this trend.
A further disclosure will hardly
be comforting to those in-
vestors who were market-shy
last year. The average return
on ordinary share-capital was
6.67 p.c. in 1958, compared
with 5.55 p.c. in 1957. The
“What kept you?"
present yield on the “Financial
Times” index (ordinary shares)
is 5| per cent.
There has been much
comment in the financial press
on the presentation of accounts.
Two reasons are advanced
against the traditional balance-
sheet and profit-and-loss state-
ment. One is that they are
difficult for the layman to
understand and the other is
that it is good public-relations
for a company’s trading experi-
ence to be set out simply and
clearly. Companies seem to be
taking the hint.
The latest, Associated Elec-
trical Industries, has not only
expanded its report and
accounts into a 50-page book-
let but has also issued a supple-
ment in, as it were, elementary
language. Particularly interest-
ing are the tables showing
comparative shareholdings in
1949 and 1958. The increased
buying of ordinary shares by
the institutions is evidenced by
the fact that the average hold-
ing of insurance-companies
has grown from £7500 to
£23,500. Altogether, institu-
tional holdings amount to
over a quarter of the whole.
On the other hand, the average
held by limited companies has
fallen from £26,000 to £2OOO.
The stock-capital has risen
from £6 million (10,500
members) to £3B million
(80,200 members), but not-
withstanding the eightfold total
of individuals (76,000 against
9900), the average holding of
the private investor is still
modest —£276 against £216 in
1949. Astonishingly, the overall
average holding has in fact,
fallen —from £573 to £476.
High and Low Jinks
Has farce a place in the
classical repertory? The
Comedie Frangaise think so,
having opened their short
London season with Feydeau’s
“Le Dindon.” This nonchalant
escapade of amours and infid-
elities is very naughty and
epitomises the adjective
“French” as loosely understood
in the theatre. Across the
water (the Thames, not the
Channel) the Old Vic have
revived a contemporary Eng-
lish farce, Pinero’s “The Magi-
strate.” How very different!
Uproarious, wholesome and,
apart from the young scion’s
guffawing precocity, entirely
sexless, this was tailor-made
for Great-Grandpapa and his
family. (The other was tailor-
made for Great-Grandpapa on
his own.)
It is worth reviving, if only
for the evocation of the plushy
comfort of the period (1885).
The producer, Douglas Seale,
has cut much of the dated
verbal fun, making the first act
very short, and has aimed for
a stylistic delicacy which is
at many removes from the
slapstick robustness of Vic-
torian farce. He is wise for,
although the audience is rarely
brought to roar, it is frequently
made to laugh and the play
noticeably succeeds best where
it is most in period.
The acting, too has a
memorable quality of charm.
Barrie Ingham’s Cis (the nine-
teen-year-old who, to save his
mother’s face, must knock five
years off his age and wear an
Eton suit) is excellent pastiche,
alternating in mien and slang
between the “Boy’s Own
Paper” and the “Pink ’Un.”
Similararly old-worldly are
Silvia Francis’s demure music-
mistress, John Phillips’s gallant
Colonel, Jack May’s inane
Captain and Gerald James’s
magistrate’s clerk. Michael
Hordern is too intelligent and
withdrawing to be perfectly
cast as the magistrate, but his
refined he - who - gets - slapped
kind of interpretation, if fail-
ing to sparkle, in no way
appears incongruous.
“The Buskers” (Arts Theatre)
earned its young author,
Kenneth Jupp, a £5OO bursary
from the Arts Council last
November. Despite the Piran-
dello-like theme, the O’Neill-
like despair and the Beckett-
like rags-and-tatters, this is a
distinct and original play well
suited to a Little Theatre.
Three deadbeats, formerly the
family of a noted preacher who
has disappeared and whom
they vainly seek, have joined
forces with a professional
busker and his daughter. In
acting (badly) the crudest of
melodrama they find them-
selves re-enacting (passionately
and violently) their own tragic
break-up.
The technical aspects of the
acting and production are
unique and interesting. This
company, in Toby Robert-
son’s rather lumbering produc-
tion, acquits itself brilliantly,
especially Patricia Jessel as the
wayward mother, Patrick
Magee as the despised,
vermnious hanger-on, James
Bree as the lecherous grand-
father, and Gordon Gostelow
as the conciliatory but Chaplin-
esque trouper.


Bark Ring
By CLIVE BARRY
With drawings by the author, all the way from
liar es Salaam, Hast Africa.
“I can help thee."
bones you buy from a butcher.
The drug in the bark is a
volatile relation of benzedrine.
Two years ago the women of
Somaliland said that this drug
made old men impotent. The
old governor banned the drug,
and twigs doubled their price
on the blackmarket.
My district commissioner
told me all this while I gazed
nostalgically through his office
window at African salesgirls
on mats on the sand outside.
Mentally I added clothing to
those salesgirls until they re-
minded me of sunburnt surf-
girls.
“You understand,” said the
district commissioner to me,
“that twigs must be picked
and flown overnight. Other-
wise their toxic content
evaporates and no one buys
them.”
“Sir,” I sighed, “I under-
stand.”
Beyond those nude salesgirls
was a road barrier where a
tribal policeman parleyed with
a busload of tourists.
“More and more growers,”
said the district commissioner,
“run their twigs to the black-
market in Somaliland instead
of flying them to Yemen.”
“Why, sir,” I yawned, “that’s
terrible.”
Several tourists stood up in
the aisle of their bus to click
cameras at salesgirls on mats.
“Impotency may be popular
in Australia,” murmured the
district commissioner, “but in
Somaliland it’s a disgrace.”
“Hey! What’s that?” I sat
up.
“Pay attention,-* continued
the district commissioner.
“Fexyar and fewer twigs are
going to Yemen. And the
fewer the twigs, the smaller the
revenue.”
“My word, sir,” I said
solemnly. I wiped my brow.
That tribal policeman now
Catha edulis is a tree. A
lot of people pick twigs
off this tree, tie them in
bundles, wrap them in
polythene, and fly them to
Yemen.
Yemen people buy a ton of
twigs every day, and more
during the Ramadan and
Id-el-Fitr periods. Not the
whole ton is eaten. Only the
bark is masticated, and the
wood is discarded like the
“Those matching
teacups were a wed-
ding present"
Blackberry-blancmange.
opened his road barrier and
the bus-driver rearranged his
gears. In anticipation of pro-
gress those standing tourists
leaned forward like kangaroos
grazing and that bus came past
the tribal policeman toward
the district commissioner’s
office.
“Henceforth,” said the dis-
trict commissioner, “you will
handle all twigs. Ensure that
no grower hides twigs,
smuggles twigs, steals twigs, or
sells twigs except through
Yemen.”
“Of course, sir,” I said. It
simply meant belting around
in ten bush vehicles simul-
taneously.
The district commissioner
closed his file labelled “Twigs”
and I stood up. He selected
another file labelled “Tourists”
and I crept out.
As I crept out that bus-
driver crept in. In spite
of his modest size he supported
a lion-tamer’s moustache, and
a knife in a zebra-skin sheath.
He smoked with earnest
desperation as though waiting
for the next elephant to fall


on him. He left wet footprints
in the sand.
“Hoop-la! ” I yelled in a
kindly manner. “Will you take
a gold watch and chain or a
kewpie doll?”
“I’m sorry,” he spoke
calmly, “but I’m a white
hunter.”
“This district is closed to
tourists,” I told him. “Don’t
you know there’s a rebellion
on?”
“I’m sorry,” he spoke again,
“but I lost my way.”
“I know,” I sympathised.
“Those road-barriers are so
hard to notice.”
He went in to see my district
commissioner and I went out
to see his tourists. The tribal
policeman held a bucket of
foot-and-mouth prophylactic
at the door of the bus and
made tourists step in it as they
emerged.
The salesgirls on mats soon
enticed tourists beyond the
bucket of prophylactic.
I gave a brown coin with a
hole in it to .a nursing salesgirl
and she gave me a twig from
her bundle which included a
baby so new it had not yet
darkened from the color of
warm butter to the color of
molten copper. While I walked
on past the potter, the snuff-
seller, the sandal-maker, the
brewer, the bottle-o and the
equator, I ate the bark of that
twig and considered its dull
taste. Then I hid myself in
my dreary work-cell and
wasted my life composing
administrative messages while
outside in the sun, millet-beer
ran golden out of gleaming
gourds, and bare-skinned sales-
girls flashed smiles full of
genuine teeth for no more than
the price of a hemp cigarette.
By cable I warned Yemen to
expect a planeload of twigs.
By telephone I asked our air-
strip to lay on a Dakota. By
walkie-talkie I instructed 10
vehicles to lift a ton of twigs
to the airstrip. By big buffalo-
skin drum I signalled orchards
to pick that ton. By cerebrum
I told myself to prevent black-
market twigs going to Somali-
land. But the dullness from
the taste of that masticated
bark entered my skull and
further work became unthink-
able.
Blackmarketeers cannot be
beaten. They have big freight-
cars, small planes and enough
ready cash to make you jump.
They stick their noses in every-
where like Queensland sand-
flies ; you can swat one or two,
but what difference does it
make to the swarm?
Forced by dullness in the
skull into taking a holiday, I
went outside. Overhead in the
purple air rainclouds con-
densed off the snowtip of the
closest mountain. Salesgirls
erected banana - leaves as
umbrellas and looked less than
ever like Bondi-beachers.
TlEThile tourists haggled for
** pots, snuff, sandals, brew
and metal-studded gourds, I
looked inside their bus. The
driver’s speedo. was shattered,
the flange of his clutch was
worn off, and when I pulled
out his choke I threw it away.
A handsome tourist in
Persian waistcoat, tasselled
skullcap, long shirt and silver
scarab-earbangles loitered by
and I accosted him in
Swahili.
“Thou hast no worry?” I
whispered by way of traditional
greeting.
“No worry, master,” he
responded automatically, look-
ing thoughtfully at his three
veiled wives.
One or two raindrops as big
as duck-eggs smashed onto the
windscreen. I switched the
switch of the " windscreen-
wiper, but nothing reacted.
“What is thy news of many
days?” he added politely.
“My news is excellent,” I
told him, “but . . .”
Up to this point every
Swahili conversation is a chess-
game that begins with two
standard moves. After this
point the conversation game
broaches possibilities whose
multiplicity defies contempla-
tion.
. . but I need help,” I
finished.
I raised the bonnet of the bus
and touched a crinkly wire, and
it jabbed me electrically. Just
then the windscreen-wiper
sighed and gestured. Rain-
drops glued dust down all over
the windscreen and that wiper
spread the glue evenly.
Infected by my stealthy
demeanor, that handsome
tourist leaned up close to my
ear and spoke in a low voice:
“Help, eh?”
I searched again for that
crinkly wire in the tangled
bowels of the bus, and I yelped
when I discovered it. I closed
the bonnet to insulate myself
and I told those silver scarab-
earbangles exactly how to
thwart blackmarketeers.
“I can help thee,” said
Bangles, taking my hand.
. “Praise be to Allah,” I told
him, waggling my captured
hand.
I honked the bus horn
staccato and tourists emerged
obediently. Several handed me
small purchases to stow on the
luggage-racks, then 1 opened
the door and the bus swallowed
them all up.
When the white hunter came
out of the district com-
missioner’s office I accosted
him in English: “Uh-huh?”
“I demanded a temporary
pass,” explained the white
hunter, “and the district com-
missioner gave me one.”
He poked a manila envelope
at me and, because my name
was on it, I opened it. The
note inside said: “Evict this
circus immediately.”
“I shall travel with you,” I
said to the white hunter.
For answer, that white
hunter pulled his mouth down,
fell into the cockpit and pushed
the starter-button and the
windscreen - wiper stopped.
Then the bonnet rattled with
sympathetic vibrations, rain-
drops slid horizontally across
the windows, the bus galloped
over termites’ nests onto hard,
wavy, volcanic ash, and the
glistening wings of termites
along the track turned into
fleeting snowdrifts.
Tn spite of an opaque wind-
■** screen, a slipping clutch
and loose steering-joints, that
white hunter’s driving ironed
the bush track into a tarmac
highway. He adjusted speed
to the wavelength of corruga-
tions to derive smoothest
reception, and he annihilated
every puff-adder on the track
with a minimum of swerve.
Now and then he switched on
a microphone and, in Swahili
and English, drew tourists’
attention to the three-dimen-
sional, technicolor, stereophonic
animals.
“That’s a big giraffe,” he
told the tourists. “Did you see
the zebras? Did you hear the
gnus?”
I sat on foam-rubber beside
one English wife who broad-
cast a commentary on the
animal in her own life. She
directed her commentary at
me, but her voice filled the
bus. Her husband, she told
me, had cracked a matching
teacup by putting it in water
too hot or too cold and she
had told him not to put it in
water too hot or too cold and
he —you know how stupid
husbands are? —and he had
said he didn’t know that a
matching teacup would crack
if you put....
While she nagged, that little
white hunter fell expression-
lessly silent as though he could
short-circuit her spiel some-
where in his neural system
before it penetrated his con-
sciousness. This ability of his
astonished me until I discovered
that he was her cracked-teacup
husband.
As the white hunter navi-
gated across an angular delile,
the setting sun dabbed side-
ways at Ol Skoni mountain
and plastered level bands of
raincloud shadow across its
belly. Snowfields suddenly
resembled yellow beaches
above the tumbling waves of
purple mist. A flock of
flamingoes smudged a pink
patch on the mauve of a dis-
tant lake, and Mrs. White
Hunter told me sharply that
those matching teacups were a
wedding present from her
mother. In fact, her mother
had warned her husband not
to put
“I better drive,” I said to
the white hunter, “because I’m
familiar with the track.”
I took the wheel and night
came on. At 50 on the splin-
tered speedo. Mrs. White
Hunter pointed out that it was
in fact on her wedding-day
that that matching teacup was
put... .At 60 her grammar fell
apart and sentences were left
unfinished; and at 70 she fell
into a strained silence. I drove
so hard it was difficult to
uncurl my fingers afterwards.
Now, the brake-shoes on that
bus were not worn equally and
a stab at the footbrake meant
a leap to the left. On a twist-
ing track this mechanical reflex
could be useful, but I was
unaware of its potentialities.
Soon the bus leaped into a
mud drift and I flashed the
headlamps for help.
There were answering flashes
from many points in the black
landscape, and after a little
while men arrived leading
strings of wives. Those wives
were heavily laden with the
bundles of twigs from a simul-
taneous harvest. Just why
those twigs had to be taken
across country in the dead of
darkness 1 did not deign to
inquire.
When they recognised me,
those men drove their wives
back out of sight and they
extricated the bus by singing
a song. As a chorus they
encircled the bus, seized it
with powerful hands and
applied effort at stressed
syllables in their song. That
bus wriggled in rhythm until
it was back on the track again.
After this incident I admon-
ished the white hunter for
loafing on the job and he drove
us to the inn beyond the boun-
dary of Jamskoni district by
dinner-time.
TThe rising moon refracted an
orange rainbow on a dis-
tant downpour and whitened
{Continued on page 37)


[REPEATED BY REQUEST]
The average person
“just DOEsrrr know how
to remember”
says Langford-Penny!
The man .
WITH THE
As the guest speaker at, say, a business-
men’s club dinner, Sydney psychologist
Mr. W. Langford-Penny not only RE-
MEMBERS THE NAMES OF NEARLY
ALL PRESENT, but will also, by way of
further demonstration, ask his audience
to write down, each under the other, the
figures 1 to 10. To then call out 10
different five-figure numbers, one at a
time, and write them down alongside the
key-figures 1 to 10. Within a minute or
two, a list something like this will have
grown:
6. 51734
7. 56943
8. 46351
9. 43607
10. 18439
1. 50131
2. 88288
3. 76364
4. 89791
5. 85279
Langford-Penny will then ask someone
to stand up and read the completed list
of numbers once through. He has then
HEARD these 10 numbers — TWICE
ONLY!!! At no time has he actually
SEEN the figures!
Yet he will give, from memory, the
10 sets of figures, in correct order — back-
wards or forwards! Or at random!
“What is number 6, please ?” Like a flash
comes the answer — "No. 6 is 51734.” Or,
half-hoping to trick him, someone may
ask — "Number 89791, how about that?”
“That,” Langford-Penny assures him,
“is the fourth number on the list!”
AT THE END OF HIS ADDRESS,
having spoken for half an hour or more,
with no chance whatsoever to give
further thought to the numbers, it is
found that they are still tucked securely
away in his memory. He can still give
them all —without hesitation or error. He
explains that he could, if necessary, retain
them to the end of his days.
Amazing? Not Really!
Amazing? "Not really,” says Mr.
Langford-Penny, "merely a matter of
KNOWING HOW to remember. It’s as
easy as all that!”
He then goes on to say that he once
had—or THOUGHT that he had—a very
poor memory. A businessman, he was
constantly embarrassed, as just one
example, by his inability to remember
people’s names. “Heaven knows I tried
hard enough,’’ he says, “I used to RE-
PEAT THE NAME OVER AND OVER
AGAIN in the back of my head when
meeting a person, but, invariably, the
conversation took over, and, ten minutes
or so later, the name would be completely
gone ... I used to write down a list of
the things that 1 had to do. Excellent
idea! Provided that I could remember
where 1 had put the confounded piece of
paper !”
But all that belongs to the past. For,
just about the time that he was really
worried about his “poor” memory, he
read something to the effect that—“ . . .
the average person is NOT using more
than 10 to 15 per cent, of his or her
REAL, INHERITED memory-power.”
This set him rocking back on his heels.
His living was being made, not by using
the muscles of his arms, but by the intelli-
gent use of whatever mental powers he
might possess.
“. . . IF,” he reasoned, “IF I HAVE A
MENTAL POTENTIAL OF 85 PER
CENT., OR MORE, WHICH I AM NOT
USING, simply through lack of know-
how, then I most certainly WANT TO
KNOW HOW ! ! !”
Langford-Penny further reasoned that
every intelligent man, woman and child
would likewise be interested in learning
HOW to UNDERSTAND and USE — IN-
TELLIGENTLY and EFFECTIVELY
—his or her memory-powers.
He studied, experimented and re-
searched for seven years before feeling
qualified to put pen to paper. Particularly
was he anxious to get away from the ideas
of the spate of memory-training courses
that came into existence in the early
1900’s. “Who today,” he reasoned,
“would buy a vintage car, when the late
models offer so much in vast improve-
ments ?”
* * * *
Langford-Penny’s course of instruction
“YOUR MEMORY! HOW IT
WORKS! HOW TO USE IT /’’—copy-
righted and registered under the trade
name of “TRENT,” met with instant
success. To prove to the public that
“TRENT” was 100 per cent, sincere,
genuine and efficacious, Mr. Langford-
Penny approached the N.S.W. Police De-
partment. The course was rigidly tested
by the Criminal Investigation Branch of
the Police Department and came through
all tests with flying colours. Newspapers,
magazines and radio stations carried the
success story to the four corners of the
Globe and soon letters of enquiry came
pouring in from all over the world.
-
; s'iVV
:
;*
H
m
m.
“GEOGRAPHY, TOO, IT MATTERS NOT WHAT YOU
ARE STUDYING, YOUR JOB IS TO—REMEMBER!”
Langford-Penny explains to 11-years-old Maree Brownlee,
at a Sydney suburban school.


MEMORY
MR. W. LANGFORD-PENNY
"Erky-Perky Old History
Is Now Good Fun!"
Recently, at a Sydney suburban school,
Langford-Penny addressed a Sixth Class
of boys and girls (average age of 11 and
12 years) on ways and means of remem-
bering. After speaking to them for
twenty minutes, he handed a copy of the
morning newspaper to the class teacher
and invited the teacher to mark, at ran-
dom, 10 items of news, and to number
them 1 to 10. Mr. Langford-Penny then
read the ten selected news items, slowly,
to the class. He read each item —ONCE
ONLY ! He then handed the newspaper
back to the teacher, inviting him to ask
ANY boy or girl in the class ANY num-
ber from 1 to 10.
In each and every case, by USING
the technique which Mr. Langford-Penny
had explained in his 20-minute talk, the
boy or girl concerned was able to IN-
STANTLY give, from memory, details
of the item of news corresponding to
the numbers called out. ( Eleven and 12-
year-olds, mind you !)
THEY HAD PROVED, BE-
YOND ALL SHADOW OF
DOUBT, THAT IT IS POSSIBLE
TO REMEMBER DETAILS HAV-
ING HEARD THEM ONCE
ONLY! (THEY DIDN’T SEE
THE ITEMS OF NEWS, MARK
YOU!)
History books were then opened. A
page was selected that was new to the
class. A cursory run-through—to get a
general idea of what it was all about.
Then EXACTLY THE SAME TECH-
NIQUE as was used with the news items
was applied. Imagine the excitement
when it was then discovered by the
children that they could, promptly and
correctly, answer questions (even trick
questions) shot at them by the teacher
and Mr. Langford-Penny. “Erlcy-perky
old history,” was, they agreed, “ quite
good fun, exciting and interesting,” when
it was learnt this way. AND HOW EASY
TO REMEMBER !
Subsequent periodical tests showed
that the subject matter —intelligently
acquired by the CORRECT USE of the
children’s memory-powers—was just as
easily RETAINED in their memory.
School child or managing director, air-
lines pilot or tradesman, accountant or
public servant, salesman or Serviceman,
clerk or housewife—it matters not WHO
you are, says Langford-Penny —anyone
so wishing can quickly develop a memory
which is trustworthy and efficient. It is
just a matter of correct instruction. This
correct instruction is available in the
“TRENT” course, written and presented
by Sydney psychologist, Mr. W. Lang-
ford-Penny.
LITERATURE
Under the trade name of
“TRENT,” Mr. Langford-Penmy's
course—“YOUß MEMORY! HOW
IT WORKS! HOW TO USE IT!”
—is available, at a reasonable fee,
to all serious-minded persons who
fully realise the importance of
having a THOROUGHLY RELI-
ABLE MEMORY. It is made avail-
able only under strict, yet fair,
conditions. The course is in the
form of SEVEN booklets, designed
specifically for COMPLETE HOME
INSTRUCTION. The instruction is
so simple that even school children,
with parental guidance, can gain
immediate and lasting benefit. ALL
MEMBERS OF YOUR FAMILY
CAN BENEFIT! Rigidly protected
by copyright, “TRENT” is the ONLY
course of its kind in existence. A
WRITTEN GUARANTEE accom-
panies every course.
If you are interested, and would
like to receive full details, kindly
complete and post the coupon be-
low. (Write briefly, if you do not
wish to cut your copy of the
“Bulletin.”) By return, you will re-
ceive literature giving you full details
of the course. Your enquiry is treated
as confidential . . . literature comes
to you in a PLAIN, SEALED envelope
. . . places you under no obligation
whatsoever.
The coupon is for your convenience
but DO, please, carefully PRINT
your NAME and FULL ADDRESS—
CLEARLY!
“TRENT” MIND AND MEMORY
DEVELOPMENT PTY. LTD.,
214 Pitt St., Sydney
(next Lyceum Theatre).
and
61 Market St., Sydney,
(opp. Wool worths).
Phones: MA5686 :: BM 6392 :: J 84857
MR. W. IANGFOBD-PENNI, Principal,
“TRENT” MIND AND MEMORY DEVELOPMENT PTY. LTD.,
BOX 4578, G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
I am genuinely interested in what I have read, and would like to receive, without
obligation, full details of the “TRENT” course of MIND and MEMORY DEVELOPMENT.
Mr., Mrs. Miss, Dr., Rev
PRINT
CLEARLY
PLEASE
Btn. 48


FROM KUBLAI KHAN TO MAO TSE-TUNG
Tibet in the Bed Shadow
Chinese claims to sovereignty over
Tibet are nothing new ; they have
been made since the time of
Kublai Khan —but they have never
had any sanction other than that of
force. The Tibetans are not of Chinese
stock Chinese Premier Chou En - lai
admitted this in conversation with Mr.
Nehru a couple of years ago—but are
akin to the Mongols.
Tibet has never been integrated with
China, and Chinese suzerainty has
usually been rather nebulous, though on
occasions, over short periods, it has been
successfully enforced. In 1720 a Chinese
force occupied Lhasa and exacted an
agreement that Chinese officials should
be stationed in Lhasa and should have
a say in the appointment of the Dalai
and Panchen Lamas and these digni-
taries were to receive their patents of
investiture from the central Chinese
Government. This degree of control did
not last long. The Tibetans more often
ignored than observed it it was their
refusal to recognise an Anglo - Chinese
treaty over tne Indian protectorate of
Sikkim that led to the British expedition
to Lhasa in 1904.
Just before the overthrow of the
Manchu dynasty in 1911 Chinese forces
again occupied Lhasa, the Dalai Lama
fleeing to India, but these troops were
expelled shortly after Sun Yat-sen’s
Chinese Republic was established.
The Simla Convention
Tn 1913 at Simla in India a conference
at which Tibet, China and Britain
were represented drew up a convention
which divided Tibet into two zones. Both
were to be under Chinese suzerainty, but
Outer Tibet, or Tibet proper, was to be
fully autonomous, though a Chinese resi-
dent with a military escort of not more
than 300 men was to be allowed in
Lhasa.
In Inner Tibet (the area contiguous*
to China) the Lhasa Government re-
tained ecclesiastical and certain other
rights, but China was to be allowed to
appoint officials and to garrison and
colonise the territory. China engaged
not to make Tibet a Chinese province or
to send troops to Outer Tibet.
China subsequently repudiated the
initialling of this convention, but for the
next 15 years was in no position, through
internal troubles, to do much about it.
Chiang Kai - shek’s Government sent
several missions to Lhasa after 1928, and
Chinese maps began to show new
provinces extending into Tibetan terri-
tory. Tibet continued to regard itself
as an independent State, and maintained
this attitude throughout World War 11.
By this time new Dalai and Panchen
Lamas had been enthroned —the two
young men now holding those offices —■
the former by the Tibetans, the latter
by the Chinese National Government
without Tibetan approval.
Enter the Communists
nPHE Chinese Communist Government
first came into the picture in 1949,
when the Panchen Lama fell into Com-
munist hands and Peking Radio an-
nounced that he had appealed to Mao
Tse-tung to “liberate” Tibet. Mao, said
the radio, had invited the Tibetans to
become “members of the big family of
unified, prosperous China.” He assured
them that “the People’s Liberation Army
can surely satisfy the yearnings of the
Tibetan people.”
By this time, Britain having withdrawn
from India, the Indian Government had
assumed the treaty rights and obligations
of Britain in relation to Tibet, and in
August, 1950, Mr. Nehru announced
that the Indian Ambassador in Peking
had suggested to the Chinese Govern-
ment the desirability of settling the
Tibetan question peacefully.
The Peking Government replied that,
although it regarded Tibet as an integral
part of China, it had no intention of
forcing the issue, but was willing to
negotiate with Tibetan spokesmen for a
settlement. In September talks were held
between a Tibetan mission and the
Chinese Embassy in New Delhi, and the
Tibetan emissaries said they were willing
to go to Peking to continue the discus-
sions. Just as they were about to start
the Chinese Communist Government
announced that it had ordered its troops
to advance into Tibet.
“A Domestic Problem”
r T'o India’s note describing the Chinese
action as “most surprising and re-
grettable” and “not in the interests of
China or of peace,” Mao replied that
his Government would like to make it
clear that
Tibet is an integral part of Chinese terri-
tory, and the problem of Tibet is entirely
a domestic problem of China. The
Chinese People’s Liberation Army must
enter Tibet, liberate the Tibetan people
and defend the frontiers of China.
To this the Indian Government replied,
stressing the “legitimate Tibetan claims
to autonomy within the framework of
Chinese suzerainty” and saying that there
was no justification for military opera-
tions against Tibet. The Attlee Govern-
ment in Britain fully supported the
Indian stand.
Tibet appealed to the United Nations
for help, pleading that “racially, cul-
turally and geographically” they were
far apart from the Chinese, and that
“Chinese conduct during their expedition
in 1910 completed the rupture between
the two countries.”:
The Chinese revolution in 1911, which
dethroned the last Manchurian Emperor,
snapped the last of the sentimental and
religious bonds that Tibet had with China.
Tibet thereafter depended entirely on her
isolation, her faith in the wisdom of Lord
Buddha and occasionally on the support
of the British in India for her protection.
When the appeal came before the Steer-
ing Committee of the General Assembly
it was shelved on the motion of the
Indian delegate, who expressed the belief
that a peaceful settlement, safeguarding
Tibetan autonomy while still maintain-
ing its historical links with China, might
still be achieved.
“Liberation”
Tgnored by U.N., Tibet came to terms
with Red China. The Peking Govern-
ment was to be responsible for defence
and foreign relations, but the Dalai
Lama and the Panchen Lama were to
be confirmed in their functions and
authority. The Tibetan people were
promised “national regional autonomy
under the unified leadersnip of the
Chinese People’s Republic.”
Chinese troops entered Lhasa, eastern
Tibet was put under the control of the
“Chamdo Liberation Committee,” and
another area was transferred to the
authority of the Panchen Lama. The
administration of the Lhasa area was not
greatly interfered with at first.
In 1954-55 the two Lamas spent six
months in Peking, and on their return
to Tibet a “Preparatory Committee for
the Autonomous Region of Tibet” was
formed under the chairmanship of the
Dalai Lama, with a Chinese general as
second vice-chairman. Meanwhile Chinese
Communist cadres were busy indoctrinat-
ing suitable Tibetans, and there were
attempts to harass the monasteries and
undermine the influence of religious
beliefs.
Probably the most important and sig-
nificant feature of this period was the
building of motor-roads from China into
the heart of Tibet, thus ending the isola-
tion which had been the country’s chief
defence.
By 1956 there was much unrest and
in many places open rebellion, at first
in the Khampa region (portion of China,
but inhabited by people of Tibetan race),
then inside Tibet proper. The rebels were
so successful that in April, 1957, the
people of Tibet were told that Comrade
Mao’s Socialist reforms would not be
introduced during the currency of the
second five-year plan (1958-62). A few
months later a six-year education pro-
gramme was instituted to prepare the
way for “democratic reforms” which
were apparently then scheduled for 1963.
Whether this hasten-slowly talk was
merely a blind, or whether the opposi-
tion became too strong and widespread
to be ignored, cannot be stated with
certainty, but all pretence of local
autonomy has now apparently been dis-
carded and Peking is attempting to im-
pose integration by brutal force.


Between
Ourselves
y
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
■wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing (hat she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world-ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
the thatched roofs of the inn.
Inside, servants trotted about
with trayloads of Tusker beer.
A huge cedar log burned in
the open grate. Leopard-skins
sprawled over flagstone floor-
ing and too many people
danced European-style in a
small clearing of the forest of
dusty wickerwork furniture.
A set of drums drummed, an
electric organ howled, and a
sultry white girl shouted into
a public-address system a syn-
chronised warning to keep offa
her blue suede shoes. 1 began
to congratulate myself upon
finding a home at last for my
travel-tired soul when Mrs.
White Hunter materialised
through the haze of swirling
smoke.
To avoid her teacup-
monologue I seized a screw-
driver and went out to the
bus. While tourists ate sink-
soup, grilled trout with stuffed
paprika, roast ribs of gazelle
with yam, guava fritters with
slogged cream, soda-breau,
cheese, loquats, and iodine-
coffee, 1 unscrewed foam-
rubber seats in the bus and
stacked them in the courtyard
of the inn.
After dinner, the white
hunter and Bangles got into
that hollow bus with me and
we drove back into Jamskoni
district. We stopped at the
first twig-orchard and Bangles
exchanged lies with the
grower while the white hunter
and I crouched concealed in
the bus.
“Hast thou good twigs?”
said Bangles to the grower.
“My twigs are as thick as
my fingers,” boasted that
grower. He held out his
fingers and Bangles gave them
the admiration appropriate for
such huge knobby twigs.
Bangles explained that he
wanted to buy blackmarket
twigs for Somaliland. The
grower retired into his mud-
and-watlle house while Bangles
gazed admiringly at the
grower’s girl - friend. The
grower's girl - friend was
moulded shapefully in firm
blackberry-blancmange. For
ear-ornaments she wore sharp
brass which protruded side-
ways like the blades on Queen
Boadicea’s chariot. I couldn’t
hear what Bangles said to her,
but I could see those ear-
ornaments doing a lot of
thrusting and parrying.
Soon the grower hurried
back waving a sword. As
Bangles got into the bus, the
bus-door gave him a bruise on
the shoulder. As the bus
retired at speed a mile or two
down the slippery clay track,
I explained to Bangles that not
all growers were in favor of
the blackmarket.
■yLfE called at 32 twig-orchards
that night. Many of
those growers wanted no
blackmarket deals, but others
could be persuaded to stack
twigs in the bus. 1 didn’t con-
fiscate those twigs, but I
explained that they » were
Yemen-bound and 1 pointed
out just why blackmarket was
detrimental to the district.
I punished nobody. The
essence of an efficient district
is spontaneous co-operation,
and spontaneous co-operation
is rarely noticeable in a punish-
ment-ridden district.
By way of spontaneous co-
operation, some growers
offered us refreshment. One
disrespectable old grower in a
bile-colored blanket gave us a
calabash loaded with water-
white spirit brewed from
juniper-berries. Bangles refused
to drink that juniper-juice, but
he stoked-up with much bark
from the cargo of twigs. Even
the white hunter approached
that juniper-juice suspiciously.
He dipped his sheath-knife in
it, and that sheath-knife came
out quite clean and much
sharper.
After that Bangles was asked
to drive while the white hunter
and I considered the stuff and
reminded each other of our
debt to the juniper-berry.
Bangles drove like a horse, but
he cursed like a champion
rider. His face stiffened into
Oriental inscrutability from
the anaesthesia in the bark.
The night air was chilly, but
rainsoaked twigs in the bus
fermented and warmed the
interior. So we drifted from
orchard to orchard harvesting
illegal twigs and revelling in
their warmth with juniper-juice
and masticated bark.
At the airstrip we transferred
twigs from our bus into the
chartered Dakota and sent
them away to Yemen. That
Dakota was still not really
filled to capacity. This meant
less profit for the growers,
because empty space in a
chartered plane costs just as
much as used space.
I gave the white hunter’s bus
a long drink at the petrol-point.
In the airstrip workshops his
bus received new brake-shoes,
adjusted steering, two new
tyres, a new choke-cable and
an unsplintered second-hand
speedo. I deducted the
expense of rejuvenating the
bus from the revenue of the
night’s twigs. The sale of the
night’s twigs would fetch at
least £20,000 sterling.
We drove out of Jamskoni
district back to the inn in the
bronze light of the sinking
moon, for the night was far
advanced. Against that fullish
moon, small wispy clouds
formed perfect aureoles.
Tnside the deserted inn, the
x huge log was now white
dust in the open grate, and
those leopard-skins snored on
the flagstones.
When we finished that
juniper-juice I set-up one of
those stiff leopards to demon-
strate for Bangles a special
Bondi surfboard technique.
This demonstration filled the
white hunter with jealousy,
and he stalked through the
forest of wickerwork furniture
and shot my surfboard leopard
repeatedly from cover by
working the bolt of an imagin-
ary Mannlicher rifle and say-
ing, “Boom whang! ”
I intended to work-out for
Bangles the point-of-balance
on the horizontal leopard, but
when he expressed a desire,
after another shot of bark, to
wail for the white hunter the
thousand verses of a secret
Oriental lovesong, I resolved to
lead them to their separate
beds.
Now, that inn had rondavels
for guests instead of rooms.
Rondavels are igloos with
walls of whitewashed mud,
roofs of thatched grass, and
floors of polished cement.
Painted on the door of each
rondavel is a number, and you
know who is behind that
number by looking in the
register.
I looked in the register and
I put the door-numbers in my
head. Then intrepidly I led
my companions into the moon-
lit labyrinth of sleepsoaked
rondavels with the aim of
returning the white hunter to
his one spouse and old Bangles
to his three spice.
Perhaps it was an effect of
the juniper-juice, but as the
steak-red moon dropped lower
1 chanced to see a couple of
hyenas prance up from the rim
of the horizon and slash at it.
This needless savagery dis-
tracted me with brain-worry
as we ricocheted from rondavel
to rondavel, and the brain-
worry joggled the door-
numbers in my head.
With joggled door-numbers
in my head, I couldn’t be
blamed for transposing those
husbands . . .
Later I found my own bed
and lay awake for a long time.
Way out on the grazing plain
two lions yelled at each other,
and in under the eaves a
weaver-bird talked softly to
her children.
I worried about that plane-
load of twigs to Yemen. What
moral right had I to force
impotency twigs onto Yemen
people? What would the
United Nations say if they
heard about that impotency?
Remember the resentment
when Britain forced opium
onto the Chinese? Would I
get life imprisonment? Or
just a medal?
Again I yearned to return
to those safe old days when
the only threat to the carefree
life was an occasional grey-
nurse shark, or a misleading
tip at Randwick racecourse.
When Mrs. White Hunter
arrived at breakfast 1
worried about impotency no
longer. She wore a silent Mona
Lisa smirk and silver scarab-
bangles.
Because I was not deeply
interested in breakfast I didn’t
stay at that inn long enough
to find out how the white
hunter himself had spent the
night. I hurried over to the
road-barrier on the edge of
my administrative district, and
I phoned for a vehicle to take
me back to the twig-business
and to inaccessibility.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Tatt.'s at Randwick
Form pointed strongly to the
A.J.C. Breeders’ Plate winner
Front Cover as likely to suc-
ceed in the Two-year-old
Handicap, opening event at
City Tattersall’s autumn meet-
ing at Randwick last- Satur-
day. Overnight his price had
been quoted at 7 to 4, and he
opened on the course at 3 to L
However, 4 to 1 was soon
available, the drift continued
to 8 to 1, and starting-price was
sevens. Front Cover duly led
all the way!
It is seldom a fourth-reserve
gets a race-start, let alone wins,
but that happened when Weea-
mera landed a plunge in the
Maiden Handicap for two-
year-old fillies. She was backed
from 33’s to 10’s. Trained at
Randwick by J. B. Page for
Mr. and Mrs. A. J. Campbell,
Weeamera is by Delville Wood
(imp.) from Gleeful by Mid-
Beau (imp.) from Elation by
Beau Pere (imp.). Gleeful
wasn’t raced, but another of
her progeny, Marcelle, later
renamed Revel, won at New-
castle and subsequently in
Malaya.
When the rain came on
Saturday morning connections
of Gentle Lu felt confident of
winning the Denman Stakes,
the six-year-old mare having
had most of her many wins on
soft tracks and during autumn-
midwinter terms. It looked
sheer hard luck when Gentle
Lu struck interference soon
after the start, losing about
three lengths ; she was beaten
by only a neck by In Love.
The recently-tubed Prince Ker-
dieil wasn’t suited by the gusty
conditions ; perhaps worth re-
membering in his case that
tubed gallopers are best suited
when the day is calm and fine.
As it was, the Prince ran third,
conceding weight to the winner
and runner-up.
E., B. and J. Kornhauser
(brothers) race three-year-old
Caybros and two-year-old Sea
King, who are fully related,
being by Ruthless (imp.) from
Balgowlah by Bulandshar
(imp.) from Penelphon by
King Mark (imp.). They are
also related to several former
winners on. New Zealand and
Victorian tracks. Caybros won
City Tattersall’s Maiden Mile,
while a week earlier Sea King
scored in the A.J.C. Fernhill
Handicap. Both good gal-
lopers were bred by Mrs. G. H.
James, of Tiakitahuna (N.Z.).
Bred on the same cross as
Hutton (winner of 17 races and
£23,255 in stakes), they could
develop into useful stayers.
• • • •
There wasn’t much in the
way of form to suggest that
Carloch would beat 20 oppo-
nents in the seven-furlongs
Novice at Randwick —he
hadn’t won a race for two
years, and three days earlier
had been beaten into third
place in a Novice at Wyong!
Some backers got as much
as 40 to 1 about his chance,
and the price shortened to
20’s. He was well ridden by
apprentice C. Hunt, who
doesn’t get many chances, but
“FORE!”
who is a capable lightweight.
So far the lad has ridden four
city winners at long odds, and
it seems surprising that his ser-
vices are not in keener demand
by trainers seeking a competent
lad with a maximum allowance.
As a Randwick trainer
Darby Munro is now landing
his share of them. He won
with El Rocco at Randwick
last Saturday week, and that
gelding repeated the success in
the Autumn Handicap on City
Tatt.’s programme. Hurry By
made it a double when, ridden
by the stable apprentice W.
Dickson, he cleared out with
the Club Welter. In the Welter,
Mighty Missel, ridden by Sell-
wood, didn’t get clear until the
race was virtually over.
McGrowdie rode El Rocco in
both his wins.
Pardorus, a five-year-old by
Finis (imp.) from Mardorus by
Tippler (imp.), who had proved
a disappointment in Sydney,
though he managed places in
minor events, was paraded in
the Randwick auction-ring last
Friday. Final bid of 1150gns.
was declined. About 24 hours
later, at Newcastle, Pardorus
won his first race, the 11-
furlongs Second Improvers
Handicap.
With the completion of the
Randwick round of autumn
fixtures most Sydney racing
will now return to the suburbs.
The only R.andwick dates
before the middle of June will
be Anzac Day, and the Tatter-
sail’s date on May 9. There
will be two Warwick Farm
meetings in May (2nd and
20th).
• • • 9
The A.J.C.’s decision to
eliminate sweepstakes from all
races after August 1, thus fall-
ing into line with principal
clubs in other States, will
probably mean bigger fields in
some events, and will certainly
lessen expenses for owners,
something long wanted by the
men who provide much of the
cash to keep the sport going.
The club also decided to
increase the Epsom stake by
£5OO to £5500, and to include
a £5O fourth-prize (the S.T.C.
has long provided a fourth
prize). Prizemoney for the
Metropolitan also goes up by
£5OO, to £6500. Against this,
the Breeders’ Plate and the
Gimcrack Stakes will each
suffer a cut of £5OO, and be
now worth only £l5OO each.
It looks a poor move.
The Q.T.C. is distributing
upwards of £41,690 at its Bris-
bane Cup fixture on June 13,
15 and 20. Entries for the
St rad broke, the Cup and the
Moreton close on April 28.
“P.0.M.C.”: The unwritten
law that full-blooded relations
of champion racehorses, though
always fetching top prices, are
seldom of much account was
thoroughly shaken when the
Delville Wood-Eternal City
brothers C&sar and Valerius
finished first and second in the
Queen Elizabeth Randwick
Stakes. An earlier full-brother,
Prince Delville, won several
class races, too, including the
A.J.C. Derby, Anniversary
Handicap and two Christmas
Cups.
* * *
At Caulfield
Melbourne’s long spell of
good weather had its effect on
the racing at Caulfield last
Saturday. Although the stan-
dard of. horses engaged was a
long way short of top class,
winners of all events recorded
fast times.
Tn the main race, the two-
miles St. Kilda Handicap, the
eight-year-old Sirius gelding
Royal Sirius clipped a fifth of
a second off the course record,
to win in 3.21|. Allowing
that few two-mile events are
run at Caulfield, it is still
strange to see such an ordinary
galloper as Royal Sirius in the
book as a record-holder. His
previous win was in January,
1957, and in the last 12 months
he has been beaten many times
in weak country events. Kevin
Lafferty, who has had remark-
able success in the last couple
of years with jumping horses,
has charge of Royal Sirius.
Last two Melbourne metro-
politan meetings, have been at
trainer Peter Muschialli’s
home-track, Caulfield, and at
both meetings he has produced
a first-up winner. Last Satur-
day week it was Royal Artist,
and on Saturday it was the
three-year-old chestnut filly
Neriba, who had not raced
since early December. Last
time up, Neriba showed a lot
of promise, winning races at
Ballarat and Geelong, and run-
ning a series of minor placings
in the city. She cut-out the six
on Saturday in the smart time
of 1.10 3/10, to beat Astound-
ing, who holds the Caulfield
record for that distance, ex-
actly 1.10. Neriba did the job
very easily, and it looks certain
that there are better wins
ahead of her.
» • •
Dan Moriarty, of Adelaide,
known as one of the shrewdest
of owners, has certainly had a
happy trip to Melbourne with


the four-year-old Helios geld-
ing Trellios. After giving the
gelding a run in the Farewell
Handicap st Flemington (won
by Doncaster winner Tudor
Hill) Moriarty produced
Trellios in the Koora Handicap
at Moonee Valley on Easter
Tuesday, and the gelding won
in a common canter ; sent out
again at Caulfield last Saturday
he had another very easy win,
in the 10-furlongs Narong
Handicap. It was the first
time Trellios had tackled a
middle-distance, but he justi-
fied the heavy support to
favoritism by winning as he
liked. Formerly, Moriarty was
one of the best Aussie Rules
footballers in South Australia ;
a dual winner of the Magarey
Medal.
An unfortunate feature of
racing at Caulfield was the
complete breakdown of the
good South Australian mare
Cherete. Trying for her third
win in a row, Cherete seemed
to be galloping easily to the
six-furlongs post in the Koo-
yong Handicap, but there Gay
Saba galloped on to her near
hind tendon, which was almost
cut through. It seems certain
that Cherete will not race
again, but the four-year-old
Moondust-Cherish mare could
prove a good stud proposition.
The mishap not only put
Cherete out of the race but
also cost favorite Gay Saba his
winning chance, leaving the
way clear for Good Summer
to win his first race for just
over a year.
The six-year-old Nebris geld-
ing Merger has been well-
supported in most of his dozen
wins. There are not many
better sprinters in the land, and
it was not surprising to see
the gelding backed to very
short odds in the six-furlongs
South Yarra Handicap, which
he duly won effortlessly. The
win completed a double for
Merger’s usual rider, Kevin
Mitchell, who had won the
other six-furlongs event on
Nariba. It was a good week
for Mitchell, who had won also
the last four events at a
Bendigo meeting.
Wangaratta (Vic.) trainer
Hal Hoysted rarely makes an
unsuccessful visit to Mel-
bourne, and again last Satur-
day he justified his journey,
taking the Katandra Two-year-
old with Golden Haze. The
Smokey Eyes - Ancilla geld-
ing has been one of the season’s
most consistent youngsters.
From six starts he has won
three times and been second
twice. Golden Haze is raced
by Mrs. N. P. Browning, who
bred the gelding at her Wah-
gunyah property.
It was an education to see Bill
Williamson’s handling of Golden
Haze. He sat his mount in behind
the leader, Victorious, to the turn,
and when that colPmade the bend
awkwardly Williamson shot through
the gap, and kicked away as the
field straightened-up, to secure a
lead that was just too much for
the fast-finishing Hill Plain. Vic-
torious, who had won at his only
other start, raced most erratically
down the straight, finishing under
the judge’s box. Hill Plain has
now recorded two successive seconds
from a long way back, and looks
certain to win races over a bit of
ground.
* * *
The Grace of Cricket
“C.R.H.,” giving honor
where it’s certainly due:
Old Grace a mighty man
was he,
Who outshone all in any com-
pany :
I don’t think we realise even
now how great W. G. Grace
really was. Champion bats-
man, and all-rounder, of the
world for more fhan a quarter
of a century, he put up many
performances that will never
be paralleled.
Just a couple of the marvels
he performed were his 240
not-out and the winning of a
440yds. hurdle-race in 70sec.
in the one day ; his 400 not-
out v. 22 of Grimsby, when
the whole tribe of them fielded.
In the great Gents v. Players
matches —comparable to the
Tests England v. Australia —he
accomplished near-miracles.
Just a few were his scoring,
in 1876, 90 runs and bowling
78 overs in each innings—with
41 and 45 maidens respectively!
—to take 5 wickets for 103 and
3 for 51. Even with four balls
to the over he still bowled 624
balls!
In 1875 he made 23 and 110
runs and bowled 72 overs to
take 3 for 61 and 7 for 58.
Also in 1875 he scored 7 and
152 and took 7 for 64 and 5
for 61.
The old man was still going
strong in 1914 at 66 years of
age, but died unexpectedly the
following year. In first-class
cricket he amassed nearly
50,000 runs and took several
thousand wickets.
“Meg”: This year's annual
cricket-match between the
Clergy and Tattersall’s Back-
seaters, pulpitted and paddock-
ed at Brisbane Cricket Ground,
saw the Clergy (loud and pro-
longed cheers!) victorious by
77 runs. Star batsman was the
Rev. Father Tyson Donnelly,
Faith in the
Future
While in the United Kingdom recently I went
across to the Harland and Wolff shipyards at
Belfast to see my old friend, Sir Frederick Rebbeck,
and to see the work being done on the new P.
and O. liner “Canberra.”
It was a rewarding experience.
When this 45,000-ton vessel comes on to the
run late next year, it will be easily the largest
doing trade with Australia.
It cost, added to that of the new 40,000-ton
Orient liner “Oriana,” will represent a combined
investment of £3O-million in the expanding
passenger service between Britain and Australia,
and across the Pacific.
The “Canberra” is imposing, even now at this
stage of the building that has gone on since her
keel was laid in September 1957. To view the
forming structure is to visualise the streamlined
grace with which she will take the ocean at 21\
knots, with accommodation for 2250 passengers
and a crew of 1000.
The importance of such vessels to Australia’s
future—in migration, in a growing tourist traffic,
in the general strengthening of our sea communica-
tions—is beyond estimate.
For they typify the trend to greater efficiency
in the building of larger vessels of higher speed,
to move more people in faster time.
In other ways than in passenger liners,
however, shipbuilding is undergoing interesting and
radical change.
Many of the new cargo vessels are being
designed specially for bulk carriage. Some of this
type are going into service on the Australian coast,
as well as in international trade.
And there are the big bulk tankers, some
being built in Australian shipyards, others being
introduced from overseas.
Now, these developments are a sign and a
pointer to us as Australians. As they apply to our
own lines of commerce, they show a firm Faith in
our country by people whose business it is to weigh
Australia’s worth, and to measure its opportunities
by the standards of trade that will run in the world
in the years we are entering.
H. Hastings Deening


Legal Notice
IN THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT HOLDEN AT
COOTAMUNDRA
No. of Plaint 84 of 1958
BETWEEN THE COUNCIL OF THE
MUNICIPALITY OF COOTAMUNDRA
Plaintiff AND RAYMOND XAVIER
GREGORY McGIRR Defendant.
TO the abovenamed Defendant RAY-
MOND XAVIER GREGORY McGIRR.—
TAKE NOTICE that a plaint has been
entered and a summons issued against
you in this Court by the Council of
the Municipality of Cootamundra for
the sum of one thousand and eight
pounds sixteen shillings and one penny
( £lOOB/16/1) for rates and charges
under the Local Government Act 1919
AND an order has been made that publi-
cation of this notice of the entry of such
plaint in “The Sydney Morning Herald’’
the “Daily Mirror” “The Bulletin” and
“The Coofamundra Daily Herald” shall
be deemed service of the summons upon
you The summons will be heard at the
Court House Cootamundra on the nine-
teenth day of May One thousand nine
hundred and fifty-nine at ten o’clock in
the forenoon on which day you are re-
quired to appear and if you do not
appear either in person or by your
solicitor at the time and place above-
mentioned such order will be made and
proceedings taken as the Judge may
seem just and expedient. DATED this
Seventh day of April, 1959. —L. B.
SHILLING, Registrar.
C. A. VAUGHAN & HAINS, Solicitors
for the Plaintiff, 248 Parker Street,
Cootamundra, 2S.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
No. 253 of 1959.
TO PHYLLIS DAPHNE ROSE HAR-
MAN late of 90 Greta Street Aberdare
in the State of New South Wales
Married Woman.—TAKE NOTICE that
THOMAS EDWIN HARMAN has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 253 of 1959 on
the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by the 16th
day of June 1959 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. PIGOTT STINSON & CO.,
Solicitors, of 2b Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar,
IN THE SUPREME COURt""oF~NEW
SOUTH WALES —-In Divorce.
TO HAROLD THOMAS SOUTH late of
Mooroopna and District Base Hospital
Mooroopna in the State of Victoria. —-
TAKE NOTICE that JEAN SOUTH has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2552 of
1958 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by 17th June 1959 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from JACK DONOVAN & CO., Solicitors,
2 High Street, Hornsby.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—Ix Divorce.
TO PETRONELLA ADRIANA KOK
known as PETRONELLA ADRIANA
COOK late of 44 Roslyn Gardens,
King’s Cross. —TAKE NOTICE that
JOHAN WILLEM KOK known as
JOHN WILLIAM COOK has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 993 of 1959 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
30th June 1959 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from HUNT
& HUNT, Solicitors, of 15 Bligh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO ALBERT WILLIAM CHERRY late
of Marriekville New South Wales. —
TAKE NOTICE that ELIZABETH
ALICE CHERRY has filed a Petition
No. 2308 of 1956 for Divorce on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in (he Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 17th day of June 1959
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MERVYN FINLAY &
COMPANY, Solicitors, Newlands House,
141 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
of Downlands College, Too-
woomba. He hit four sixes in
his score of 39. And Ray
Lindwall played for Tatts., too!
“Sawtell”: Young S.A.
wicketkeeper Barry Jarman is
20 years, to the day, younger
than former Test ’keeper Don
Tallon. Don was born on Feb.
17, 1916, and Jarman on the
same date in 1936. Be fitting
if, as is likely, Jarman follows
further in Don’s footsteps. He
is now to go to India and
Pakistan with the Australian
team on Maddocks’s with-
drawal. The Victorian ’keeper
has announced his retirement
from first-class cricket.
* * *
Other Sports
Irr Saturday’s second round
of Sydney Rugby Union,
Gordon defeated weak Drum-
moyne 17-9, with fullback
Maurie Graham getting 11 of
the 17 points per his boot;
Drummoyne held last year’s
premiers to 6-all at half-time.
Manly winger Lockett scored
three fine tries to enable the
Seagulls to lock-out St. George
22-6, while North defeated
Parramatta by exactly the
same result. A third team to
pile-up 22 winning points was
University, which gave East-
wood a football lesson 22-10
(though not as emphatically as
did Uni. seconds, who won
53-0). The remaining game
was the most even of the
round, East beating Randwick
8-3 after a scoreless first half.
“Selja”: A team of Rugby
Union footballers from Roto-
rua (N.Z.) is at present in
Australia. In their first game,
at Chatswood (Sydney) last
Wednesday, they were wal-
loped 31-9 (seven tries to one)
by a strong. Barbarian side,
even though the Barbarians
were a man short all the second
half when Test forward Tony
Miller got marching-orders.
Incidentally, those who play
for the Barbarians do so by
invitation, and the teams
chosen are usually strong, and
interesting selections. Some-
times players who have just
failed to catch State or national
selectors’ eyes get another
chance to impress—a chance
which has been made good use
of by one or two players in
recent years.
* ♦ *
After four rounds last year’s
premiers, St. George, and
North Sydney are the only un-
beaten teams in Sydney’s
Rugby League. In the match
of the day North beat Manly
21-14, after trailing 11-14 with
only a few minutes to go.
North’s last try, by promising
winger Irvine, was disputed ;
but North had won the game
then. International Brian Carl-
son kicked six very good goals
for the winners. North has
been an unsettled team in
recent years ; this year, with
former Test centre Ross
McKinnon coaching, it looks
a good side. St. George always
had control against a dogged
Canterbury, 14-2 ; Balmain,
with Barnes landing seven
goals, had East’s measure,
20-8 ; Newtown beat lowly
Parramatta, 19-10; while, on
Sunday, South, with an acute-
angled goal close to the bell
by skipper Purcell, just pipped
West 19-18.
* * *
The V.F.L. had its last
practice-games on Saturday,
and the 1959 season bounces
away officially this coming
weekend. All clubs have
announced their final training-
lists, and, of course, all are
confident. Collingwood, 1958
premiers, are at home to South,
while runners-up Melbourne
meet Richmond in the Tigers’
own lair. No reason not to
expect in 1959 the same thrilling,
exciting football, the same big
crowds (new attendance-
records perhaps) and the same
fight or two in the outer.
“Solly”: Seldom before has
so much controversy attended
the opening of a football-
season in Westralia. Firstly
there was the appointment of
brilliant 20-year-old South
Fremantle rover John Todd as
playing-coach of his team.
Then there was the refusal
of Souths to clear State ruck-
man Ray Richards to bottom-
team Claremont. The Souths
ruck isn’t strong and it was
with great reluctance that they
finally cleared Richards. Last
year's grand-finalists, East
Perth and East Fremantle, have
also been at loggerheads over
clearances. Tom Everett, East
Perth star utility, has been
appointed coach of the rival
club. Alan Preen, All-Aus-
tralian utility from East Fre-
mantle, wants a clearance to
East Perth. Both clearances
had been refused up to time
of writing, and these two fine
players may be kept out of the
game if a swap is not made.
East Perth, last year’s prerhiers,
are loth to clear Everett lest
other stars will want clearances
next year. Another question
intriguing fans has been
whether All-Australian Jack
Clarke will strip for East
Fremantle. Jack, a farmer, has
announced his retirement, but
strenuous efforts were being
made to induce him to play
again.
* * *
Art Wall, of Pennsylvania,
W'on first-prize of £A.6690 in
the U.S. Master’s Golf Tourna-
ment with a four-under-par
aggregate of 284 —one stroke
over dentist-turned-golfer Cary
Middlecoff, with defending
champion Arnold Palmer a
stroke behind in third place.
Peter Thomson was disqualified
after the third round for hand-
ing in an incorrectly-marked
card after being six strokes
behind the leader in 13th place.
* * #
The Australian hardcourt
singles-final, played at Royal
South Yarra (Melbourne), was
won by Neale Fraser, who
beat Roy Emerson 6-2, 3-6,
12-10, 6-3. This was Fraser’s
first big tennis-title. Winner
of the Australian hardcourt
title for the three previous
years was Ashley Cooper, who
kept Fraser out of the winning
of major titles, grass or hard-
court, more than once in recent
years. (Fraser was eliminated,
in last year’s hardcourt titles,
in a marathon five-set, four-
hour quarter-final by young
Laver.) The doubles-final was
won by Emerson and Mark,
who also won the title last year.
The women’s title was won by
Jan Lehane, who beat last
year’s winner, Lorraine Cogh-
lan, in the final.
* * *
At Sydney Stadium, on
April 6, British Empire welter
champion George Barnes was
easily outpointed by Zulu Joe
N’Gidi. It was Barnes’s first
fight for six months, and he
was plainly out of trim. N’Gidi
was faster, and outboxed and
outpunched him. George is
getting old as most boxers go,
but still seems able to rise to
the big occasion, as in his
recovery (by a 13th-round k. 0.)
of the Empire title from
Johnny Van Rensburg in
Sydney last August.
“Zorok”: Don Barnes, a
younger brother of George’s,
also a welter, had a busy week,
with mixed fortunes. On the
same programme with George
he stopped Coogan Brown in
the fifth round of a 10-rounder,
while at West Melbourne on
Friday night Irish welter Mike
Leahy—with or without the
help of the 50 shamrocks he
had with him in his corner —
beat him on points over 12
rounds.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
AFTER IRAQ
A nalysing the Middle East
situation after the abortive
Iraqi revolt, London “Econo-
mist” notes that Nasser’s
attacks on national and inter-
national Communism have
faced Khrushchev with some
policy problems:
“He [Khrushchev] can
hardly be expected to turn-
down the chance —if he gets
it—of exerting direct influence
through the Iraq Communist
party in a country so strategi-
cally placed and so important
to Western interests. But he
has now to draw-up a difficult
balance-sheet. Will he, by in-
vesting too heavily in Iraq,
run the risk of alienating the
rest of the Arab world? In
other words, will he find him-
self repeating the Western
mistake of trying to exert in-
fluence through ill-chosen
friends?
“The first sign of a show-
down came in December, when
President Nasser, speaking at
Port Said, bracketed the
Syrian Communists with im-
perialists and Zionists as joint
enemies to the Arab cause.
Although there was then none
of today’s frank speaking, he
clearly implied that he was
looking beyond Syria to Iraq.
“For the first time Russia
showed its annoyance; at its
21st party congress, Mr.
Khrushchev condemned anti-
Communist measures in Arab
countries and suggested that
President Nasser was going too
far. The U.A.R. returned the
ball smartly into the Soviet
court by suggesting thaUMr.
Khrushchev should please
keep his nose out of other
people’s affairs.
“On March 16 Mr. Khrush-
chev pointed out that he con-
siders events near the Russian
frontier to be his affair, and
told President Nasser, in effect,
to leave Iraq alone. Speaking
at -a Kremlin party held to
celebrate a 550-million-rouble
credit to Iraq, he warned the
President ‘in a friendly way’
that an anti-Communist policy
would get him nowhere:
‘Attempts made under the
cover of the nationalist flag
to ignore the interests of the
population, of the working
people, are doomed to failure.’
“But, having said this, he
gave public notice that Soviet
relations with the U.A.R.
would remain unchanged. One
Western mistake that he
apparently is not going to
repeat is the brusque with-
drawal of promised aid. The
Soviet Union is committed to
build the first stage of the
Aswan high dam ; if it backs
out now it makes nonsense of
all its promises to keep its aid
free of strings. President
Nasser might well emerge as
unscathed from a second set-
back over the dam as he did
from the first; * the Soviet
Union, on the other hand,
might find its reputation newly
discredited throughout Asia
and Africa.
“Mr. Khrushchev could, of
course, try to call President
Nasser to order less publicly ;
an obvious form of persuasion
would be to go slow over the
supply of spare-parts for
Egypt’s MIGs, tanks and small-
arms. This would effectively
discomfit Egypt’s military
regime. But unless an open
clash between the Arabs forces
him to take sides, Mr. Khrush-
chev’s reassurance probably
means what it says ; for as long
as President Nasser remains the
principal leader of Arab
nationalism Moscow cannot
afford to dispense with his
goodwill.
“Soviet policy may prove
flexible enough to work one
way in Baghdad and another in
Cairo. The axiom ‘he who is
not for us is against us’ applies
to heretics in the Communist
camp, such as Marshal Tito,
but so far there has always
been» a different set of
standards for the ‘uncom-
mitted.’
“Lately Mr. Khrushchev has
been showing less patience with
neutralism ; Mr. Nehru, as well
as President Nasser, has come
under Soviet fire. But a
tougher attitude means less
than a change in course.
London “Daily Mail
THOSE NEIGHBORS UPSTAIRS.
Russia’s Middle East policy
has paid good dividends, and it
would be unlikely to risk
losing all by prematurely
cracking a doctrinal whip.
Instead, it may have to
stomach the fact that Presi-
dent Nasser’s positive neutrality
will not always be as positively
friendly as it has been for the
past three years.”
London “Spectator,” com-
menting on the same situation
as it affects the West, sees
General Kassem of Iraq as
“the Kremlin’s Nuri”:
“A successful nationalist
revolt or civil war or assassi-
nation are all possible, but at
present Iraq is under Com-
munist control. That control is
not firm and it may be over-
thrown, but it exists.
“What was true of Iraq will
in the not-so-long run be true
of the rest of the Middle East.
The alternatives are Cairo and
Moscow. A divided Arab world
does not enable us [the West]
to rule, it gives Moscow her
chance. To withstand Com-
munism the Arab States need
an ideology equally powerful,
and the only one available is
pan-Arabism. And the only
branch of Pan-Arabism avail-
able is Cairo’s.
“Any moves towards Arab
unity should therefore be wel-
comed in the West, not de-
plored. Mr. Macmillan said on
March 16: ‘There is much that
is good and beneficial in it
[Arab Nationalism], but it can
easily become the instrument
of other forces and other
ambitions whose performance
is destruction.’ The sentence
is largely meaningless, but we
shall have to abandon such a
patronising attitude to Arab
Nationalism —unless, of course,
out of spite we would rather
the Middle East went Com-
munist.
“The winning ground in the
Arab world is the neutralist
ground. A basic sentiment in
most Arabs is to remain inde-
pendent of both East and
West. At the moment Presi-
dent Nasser occupies that
ground, and General Kassem
does not. The West must
ensure that President Nasser
remains in possession of it.
“There is not much danger
that we will pull him off it to
the West, but to defeat Com-
munist propaganda that he is a
Western stooge Nasser will
have to show his independence
of the West by criticising us
and by maintaining his aspira-
tions for Arab unity. A much
greater danger is that the West
will push him off the ground to


$
Ps
m 2
im
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and A. Mcwilliams,
O’Connell Sts., Manager
Sydney.
the East or fail to stop him
being pulled to the East.
“One of Russia’s greatest
feats has been to make her
aid, unlike that of the West,
seem to the Arabs to be free
of political strings. Khrush-
chev is unlikely to sacrifice that
advantage by suddenly cutting
Nasser off with a rouble be-
cause he has attacked Com-
munism and made a rude
reference to the Tartars of the
North.
“Rather than alienate Afro-
Asian opinion by a blatant
piece of economic imperialism
Mr. Khrushchev is likely, while
doing all he can to help Iraq
(which will help him to under-
mine the Shah’s position in
Persia), to continue his aid to
Egypt and to use it as a
weapon to blunt President
Nasser’s opposition to Com-
munism. How far this man-
oeuvre will succeed depends
upon the West. The more the
West is prepared to co-operate
with Egypt and to help her,
the better she can stand up to
Russia.
“In particular Britain should
encourage the World Bank to
finance improvements and
developments of the Suez
Canal. If there should be a
revolution in Jordan, we
should on no account act as
we did last summer. We should
encourage Kuwait to join the
Arab League, and we should
do all that we can to promote
a relationship with the United
Arab Republic based on
equality and mutual respect.”
The Deterrent
pj'ROM an article by James
-*■ Garston in London “Time
and Tide”:
“We are mistaken if we
believe that the atomic bomb
has outlawed war. Mr. Nehru
has said that war will come
if and when events take control
and the statesmen are swept
along with the tide, as Mr.
Nehru would certainly be if
Pakistan invaded Kashmir.
Nuclear missiles have made
nonsense of Clausewitz’s dic-
tum that war is only a continu-
ation of national policy by
other means, but they have not
altered the nature of man.
“Megalomaniacs and lunatics
will still rise to power, and
nations will continue to throw
up Hitlers to scourge both
themselves and their neighbors.
It is merely crazy to ignore
this. Therefore we must strive
to reduce the ‘flash-points’ to
the minimum by placing the
most dangerous of them under
international control, and by
providing the United Nations
with the force needed to police
them.”
Soviet Leadership
"PRESCRIBING a visit to Russia
in London “Observer,”
Edward Crankshaw writes:
“In Moscow I found myself
thinking a great deal about the
chronic exaggeration by the
West of the importance of
Kremlin politics, as distinct
from Kremlin policies. To say
that it does not matter in the
least who rules the Soviet
Union today would also be to
exaggerate ; but it is certainly
correct to say that it does not
matter half as much as most
of us outside Russia are in-
clined to think.
“For what it is worth, Mr.
Khrushchev, unless he perpe-
trates a monumental blunder,
is there to stay. He is 65. No
obvious successor has yet pre-
sented himself. But if he were
to be taken from us tomorrow,
I think the ranks of his col-
leagues would immediately
close to form a new ‘collective 1 ;
and from this collective, after
a struggle, another dominant
personality would emerge in
due course.
“It is impossible to move
about the Soviet Union today
without being convinced that
the basic Soviet system, which
is nevertheless being con-
stantly modified, is strong
enough to survive any number
of leadership crises.
“This is not to suggest that,
for example, Khrushchev’s
London “New Statesman.”
United in Flexible Rigidity:
GENERAL
MACADENHOWER
sweeping victory over the
Malenkov - Moiotov alliance
was of no more moment than
a change of Administration in
Great Britain or the United
States. Nor is it to suggest that
the defeat of Khrushchev in
1957 would not have meant
the adoption of different
policies at home, towards
China, towards East Europe,
towards the Western world —or
that different policies would
not be pursued if he should
run into trouble in future.
“All I am saying, now with
certainty, is what I first said
more tentatively three or four
years ago: that the Soviet
Union is stronger than any
conceivable candidate for the
leadership, and is developing
in a sleepwalking kind of way
in accordance with its own
inner necessity. This means
that any leader, now or in
future, and this side of cata-
strophe, cannot aspire to
absolute dictatorship as under-
stood by Stalin, and, indeed,
by the last Tsar.
“This is not at all the same
as saying that the Soviet Union
has ceased to be a totalitarian
State. It is very totalitarian
indeed. Perhaps it is time we
stopped equating totalitarianism
with individual dictatorship.
Certainly without doing that
we cannot begin to understand
post-Stalin Russia. I would
even say that the equation is
beginning to prevent us from
understanding ourselves.
“A distinguished American
industrialist addressed Mr.
Mikoyan in these words: ‘We
say they are “Communists,”
and yet we are going in that
direction at a tremendously
rapid speed. There is also
every indication that the Com-
munists are going towards
capitalism, at least to some
extent. I do not believe there
is much doubt but that before
long an agreement between the
two ideas will be much closer
than anything we have seen
before."
“I have no idea what Mr.
Mikoyan thought of this im-
petuous analysis,- and I can
imagine better ways of express-
ing the thought behind those
words ; but the thought is in
fact clear enough, and it seems
to me by no means wholly
wide of the mark.”
U.S. Car Changes
“TT.S. News and World
Report” states that “the
1960 model-year is to be one
of big change of [U.S.] autos.”
“Cars will begin to be
shortened, to be made lighter
in weight, to become more
economical to operate.
“The race for more and more
horsepower in passenger-cars
ended more than a year ago.
•The competition to build
longer and wider cars will end
with 1959. So will the race to
get cars lower to the ground
that has made it difficult to get
into and out of them.
“Along with this will come
a competitive race to remove
the hump from the middle of
car floors. There will be com-
petition, also, to design engines
that give more mileage per
gallon, and roof-lines that give
extra head-room. More stress


*-'+*** ffl
Wr-
Holden owners say . . .
This is the greatest
buy of them all
LET'S PROVE IT TO YOU!
When the first Holden was introduced it was the first car ever designed
especially for you —the Australian motorist. And model by model,
year by year, Holden has become an even greater car. Mr. P. Russell
of 12 Waterdale Road, Ivanhoe, reports “Having previously driven all
earlier models to my complete satisfaction, I consider that the latest
Holden is superior in every respect . .
Greater value than ever. Holden
now gives you more room, more
comfort, more luggage space, more
luxury, more power, more hand-
ling ease. And even though sales
tax has been increased by over
£6O, you can now buy a new
Holden Standard Sedan for less
than £lO more than you could six
years ago. Clearly, Holden value
is now the greatest it’s ever been.
Let’s prove it to you. Drive the
beautiful new Holden and prove
for yourself that it’s the greatest
buy of them all. And ask about
the convenient GMAC hire pur-
chase plan that is available to
help you.
HOLDEN"
AUSTRALIAN OWN CAR AND STATION SEDAN
Prices from £BB5 plus tax
“AIR CHIEF” IS THE APPROVED GMH CAR RADIO
Dll!
GENERAL MOTORS-H OLDEN’S LTD. • Brisbane • Sydney • Melbourne • Adelaide • Perth
Sold and serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia
will be put on swivel-seats and
on other rider-comforts.
“For 1960 both General
Motors Corporation and Ford
Motor Company plan to
shorten, by a few inches, some
of their present models. The
wheel-base will remain the
same, but the overhang will
be reduced a little —in some
cases by as much as 6in.
“At the same time, all of
the Big Three auto-companies
—Chrysler Corporation as well
as General Motors and Ford
—will be bringing out new,
American - made ‘economy
cars’ to compete with foreign
imports and with the two
domestic lines of compact cars
already on the market
American Motors’ Rambler,
and Studebaker-Packard’s Lark.
“These smaller cars are
designed to round-out the full
range of models available from
the Big Three auto-makers. In
the 1960 model-year it will be
possible to buy anything from
a small car offering basic
transportation at lower cost to
a luxury model styled and
engineered to satisfy motorists
who want the last word in
cars.
“All of this is part of a
broad alteration in strategy by
the Big Three manufacturers
prompted by a shift in public
demand.”
Nyasesland Inquiry
YjUrra the fires of the Nyasa
’ * riots under control, the
British Government now faces
the task of examining the
causes of them and prescribing
for a just and peaceful future.
The problems are neatly sum-
marised by London “Ob-
server” :
“Only two questions are
really in dispute. The first is
whether the methods used by
Congress leaders in trying to
achieve their ends were proper.
Are the African leaders a
bunch of gangsters willing to
adopt any tactic to achieve
their purpose? This question
can now be answered only by
an impartial inquiry. But there
is less difficulty about answer-
ing the second and larger ques-
tion—whether the African
leaders have a right to their
purpose. That is the with-
drawal of the two British Pro-
tectorates from the Federation
which was imposed on them.
“Stripped of its overtones of
plotting and massacre, argu-
ment in Britain is between
those who believe it is desirable
and practicable that this
Federation should be main-
tained, even though it may
require the continued use of
force and of arbitrary rule to
hold it together; and those
who think that Britain should
seek to restore African con-
fidence by declaring her
support of the right of Nyasa-
land and Northern Rhodesia
to secede from the Federa-
tion, if a majority of their
population plainly desires to
do so.
“Much depends on which
course we chose. Whether
Central Africa becomes in-
creasingly like the Union of
South Africa or is got on a
different course; whether
Britain’s protection continues
to mean anything to Africans ;
our reputation in Asia;
whether non - European
countries will remain in the
Commonwealth ; and the true
interests of the British settlers
in Central Africa; —all this is at
stake.”
White Paper
In an attempt to answer
some of these questions, and
especially to explain why a
state of emergency was pro-
claimed in Nyasaland, the
Government published a White
Paper on the riots. Samples of
press reactions to it:
London “Daily Mail”: “It
[the White Paper] gives, for the
first time, official details of the
conspiracy of sabotage and
assassination designed to
remove every vestige of
authority in Nyasaland. The
account of this plot, hatched
at a secret meeting, was too


THE
ORION INSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England )
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT AVIATION
N.S.W. BRANCH: 19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
TELEPHONES * BU 4387 L. F. THORPE, Manager.
circumstantial to be ignored.
Who gave it we do not know.
The report came from reliable
sources which, says the Gover-
nor [Sir Robert Armitage], it
would not be in the public
interest to disclose.
“No one could expect the
Governor to say: ‘I was told
by Mr. So-and-so, a loyal
African, and Mr. X, an Intelli-
gence officer, who were present’
—because he might be signing
the death-warrant of both.
Information obtained in such
a way has to be accepted by
the public and also by the
Colonial Secretary, who is
responsible for policy.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“Since it has been possible to
publish some of the evidence
of a ‘plot,’ more details might
well have been given in order
fully to discharge the task of
reconciling public opinion to
the distasteful necessity of
declaring an emergency.
“There is, however, enough
in Sir Robert Armitage’s dis-
patch for him to claim that
inaction might have been fatal.
It' is clear that risk did not
exist only in the imagination
of panicky white settlers. Pos-
sibly these original suspicions
were nourished by the use of
a word with melodramatic
overtones. In fact, the ‘plot’
is now shown to have been not
so much a conspiracy of des-
peradoes in the bush as a
reasoned policy-directive of the
African Congress.”
» * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman”: “The
course of events, so far as they
are known here, requires no
plot to explain them. That
tension mounted after arrests
had been carried out is quite
understandable. But it is also
quite understandable that the
Governor should feel obliged
to act on the assumption that
the massacre-plot story was
true.
“Corroboration from events,
in default of much more
detailed information, remains
dubious. For the murder-plot
itself there is no more to go
on than reports from unspeci-
fied sources of the meeting on
January 25.
“When Dr. Banda was
arrested, one of those who, in
the plot-report, was to fix the
day for the murders, Mr.
Chiume, was out of the coun-
try and is now in London.
Another, Mr. Chisiza, accord-
ing to the Rev. Andrew C.
Ross in a recent letter in our
columns, rang-up the police so
that they might arrest him.
“The Africans are armed,
when at all, with sticks, stones,
London “Evening Standard.”
DID IT HAPPEN?
crowbars and spears. Apart
from the question whether Dr.
Banda, who was not present at
the meeting on January 25, or
any of his associates would
countenance a massacre of
Europeans, it is difficult to
credit that any organisation
intending such an atrocity
should be so ill-equipped and
ill-organised for its accomplish-
ment.”
Commission of Inquiry
Following publication of the
White Paper, the Government
appointed a Commission of
Inquiry to examine all avail-
able evidence on causes of the
riots. The appointment was
welcomed by all papers to
hand. Two comments:
“Yorkshire Post”: “The
appointment of the commis-
sion, the names of those who
will sit on it, and its terms
of reference, all deserve a
warm welcome. There has
been, since the crisis began, one
primary and unavoidable con-
clusion : that the tangle of
rumor, of suspicion and
counter-suspicion, of large
pieces of evidence in flat con-
tradiction of one another, can
only be assessed (and the truth
extracted from it) by an inquiry
headed by a lawyer of repute,
and freed from all prejudice
and political ties, capable
relentlessly, but courageously,
of getting down to the real
facts.
“Under Mr. Justice Devlin’s
chairmanship, there can be no
doubt that this is precisely
what the commission will do.
He has in an imposing measure
all the qualities most required.
And in his three colleagues he
can call on a variety of indivi-
dual experience, rare indeed in
bodies of this kind. In the
hands of men like these there
can be no fear of the report
being dull, ineffective or a
piece of partisan whitewash.
They will get as much of the
truth as they possibly can.”
* * *
“ Manchester Guardian ”:
“Its [the commission’s] import-
ance, above all, is that it may
help towards reconciliation in
the future. If it finds that the
main allegations about the
‘plot’ are true, then political
development in Nyasaland will
have to begin again almost
from a fresh start. If it finds
that, the ‘plot’ was something
less than the White Paper says,
or that disregard by the
authorities for the strength of
feeling against federation was
largely to blame, then Dr.
Banda and his colleagues may
yet prove to be the men with
whom we must work.
“Either way, it is plain that
the facts ought to be made
known as soon as possible —
and certainly before prepara-
tions for next year’s Constitu-
tional review begin. Before
then, too, the confidence of
people in Nyasaland towards
the British Government and
Parliament will have to be
restored, if that is possible.”
Two Russian Stories
T\rew Middleton, in “New
York Times”: “Premier
Nikita S. Khrushchev’s exhor-
tations to the Soviet Union to
catch and overtake the United
States in industrial production
have evoked a sardonic Rus-
sian comment: It is all very
well to catch the United States,
but if we overtake it Ameri-
cans will see we have no seat
to our pants.”
London “Financial Times”
correspondent: “Far more out-
spoken than any Russian in
their criticism are many visitors
to Moscow from the satellite
countries. The most bitter
criticism both of the political
system and its economic work-
ing that I heard during a fort-
night’s stay in Moscow came
from a technician who had
come to Russia from one of
the satellite countries to install
some new machinery. When
I eventually interrupted his
long tirade to ask him whether
he was a member of the Com-
munist party, he replied: ‘Me?
Good heavens, no! lam a
worker.’ ”


Established 18G8
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
osuluvan
-y PTYITD .
.*»» i»'sSr
rßAor***» mam
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS <Jr OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
unfaltering faith. Some things
in his tillage may get in the
way of perhaps clumsy plod-
ding, but that no doubt would
be a measure of a plodder’s
limitations, not his.
For example, in his introduc-
tion to the Fifteen Stories, I
stumble, with some surprise,
over this considered finding:
The Australia that Henry Lawson
knew, the Australia reflected in
this selection, was the base upon
which our society has grown.
Although we are separated from
it l>y a generation, there are still
many people alive who knew
Lawson personally. All agree that
no other Australian writer has de-
voted himself so whole-heartedly
to the Australian scene. There is
scarcely a part of it that he did
not know and write about: the dry
outback of New South Wales; the
central districts; the goldfields;
the coast and the city; Melbourne;
shipboard life; Western Australia
in its boom days of gold; New
Zealand in the bitter 1890's; Queens-
land.
And, well, there you have it
—the whole Lawson Legend
enclosed in as tight a little
paddock as you could fence.
This (so it seems to me) is
where it borders on the
miraculous —not, I think, be-
cause it is true, but because it
isn't.
'T'hat I, for one, should
think thus is, as I freely
re - emphasise, probably a
measure of my own limitations,
not Colin’s. 1 haven’t looked-
up where Colin was reared;
I haven’t any idea just what
number “many people alive
who knew Lawson personally”
might, in a count of heads on
Bible or even spit-yer-death
oath, really represent - all
of them prepared to step into
the ring in front of Watty's pub
and testify.
Those are sad enough limita-
tions of mine, and there is a
worse one. I happen to have
spent contemporaneously
with Lawson’s latter days—the
whole first 18 years of my life
on the N.S.W. Tweed River,
and if (excepting always his
people, his Australians, and
what they are doing and say-
ing) Henry ever set down a
line within unguided-missile
range of that Australia I’ll try
to eat at a sitting every variety
of things the Tweed Valley can
grow, including the inhabitants.
Naturally, I am seriously
limited by that indelible asso-
ciation, and by, as well, sub-
sequent living or visiting asso-
ciation with my native North
Coast, from the Manning to
the border. But is it unsound
comparison to say that that
other Eden is at least as large
and certainly as actual a com-
ponent of the Australian scene
as the narrow strip of com-
paratively arid Australia which
Lawson really “knew” and
mainly “wrote about”?
And Queensland, which
(from what I have seen and
read of it) its inhabitants might
have some excuse for regard-
ing as an extension of my
North Coast where, when
and how did Henry (again
always excepting his Austra-
lians) ever “write about”
Queensland? I don’t think you
“write about” a place by hav-
ing a bloke go up to its border-
fence and spit over it.
A nd so with the rest of that
Roderickian enthusiasm —
to the extent of about half its
detail, and to the full extent
of its implications. And in this
very difference —as it seems to
me —lies the near-miracle of
the Legend, and beside it the
true measure of Henry’s great-
ness.
Simply this: that he should
have taken the narrow and (as
he depicted it) merely partially
representative strip of Australia
that he actually “wrote about,”
and by the sheer force of his
depiction, in its intensity and
living reality, should have im-
posed that strip on the whole
lot of us as Australia!
“We crossed the Macquarie
—a narrow, muddy gutter wiih
a dog swimming across, and
three goats interested” —how
could you refuse him? Read-
ing it, you are nowhere else
but in Australia : the Clarence,
say, is almost a foreign stream.
And so with other depic-
tions: reading them, looking
with wonder at this near-
miracle, and in spite of the
flat contradiction of my own
personal associations, that
Lawson Australia is my
country, too, after all. It is
the image which the word
“Australia” first conjures up in
my mind, and, I imagine, in
the minds of Australians
thought of as a people. As for
the certifiable riff-raff who pre-
fer to live in other countries,
Lawson’s Australia seems to be
Australia to them absolutely.
And that, as I see it, seems
to border close on the miracu-
lous—as regards both the
Legend and Lawson’s genius.
His scene, I should say, is
secondary in this special con-
text —a scene as scentless of
bright flowers and as songless
of bright birds as the Australia
versified by Adam Lindsay
Gordon, who was very properly
taken away and buried in his
England, and from whom (and
Poe) Henry got nourishment
for his morbidity, as he got, in
larger measure, strong nourish-
ment for his sentimentality
from Dickens and to a lesser
extent from Bret Harte, though
in both of these there was the
compensating nourishment for
his own natural humor: Dick
Swiveller the favored Dickens
model, and Tennessee’s Partner
in Bret.
would I myself rate what
might be called the
mechanics of his writing (in
some aspects brilliantly ex-
plored by Phillips) as the most
important factor in assessing
either the Lawson Legend or
the Lawson genius. In one
quality, above its many others,
his actual writing seems to me
unsurpassed in any writing
that I’ve come across. In it he
is, I think, the unrivalled
master in Australia and is only
very rarely rivalled elsewhere.
That is, of course, his use of
the first-person method in
creating the marvellous living
reality of his fiction, even at its
very slightest. Though noth-
ing could be more confused
than taking literally his fic-
tional statements (or his non-
fictional, for that matter!), it
seems to me true to say that,
in a purely personal way,
Henry permeates almost all his
work as (to me) few other
writers do except such as Swift
and Lamb. In this sense, he
is the leading character, - even
where the first-person method
is camouflaged with a screen
of detachment.
But that, anyway, is literary
mechanics: method: tech-
nique: formula. Nobody that
I know of —and I’ve looked
with delight into a fair
number of first - person
specialists: Swift, Defoe,
Lamb, Dickens, Conrad and
more of them —surpasses him
(most who try the method don't
get within gunshot of him)
in the unquestioning conviction
which his first-person method
leaves with you. You may feel
that the content wasn’t worth
recording, but you will not
question its truth.
In this technique it is Henry
himself who is the visible
narrator all the time. Much
as I admire the genius of the
authorship, -I cannot believe
that, say, David Copperfield is
writing David Copperfield; I
cannot always believe that
Robinson Crusoe is writing
Robinson Crusoe; to come
nearer home (and, in some
other respects, to a Lawson
source-book), I cannot believe
that Dick Marston is writing
Robbery Under Arms. They
are the working puppets of
their authors.
I can believe, most of the
time, that Lemuel Gulliver is
writing Gulliver's Travels ; but
Henry, it still seems to me, is
something else again: Lawson
and his work (or put it the
other way round) are in-
separably welded together by
the pervading personal
presence of Henry.
In this single respect Lawson
uses —naturally or consciously,
and most successfully a
literary device which he has
almost on his own, and in the
use of which he has no master,
in fiction. He employs the
voice, rather than the pen, as
his narrating medium. This
seems to me something signi-
ficantly different from the
force of a writer’s character
investing his work with life,
which is there in every good
writer. The voice, rather than
the pen—it could be the most


important technical element in
Henry’s workmanship and
literary achievement.
"Cven so (as I see it) the key
to the Lawson Legend is
not there, either. The key is in
his people his convincing,
permanent, unchanging, uni-
versal Australians: what they
are, what they look like, what
they say, what they do. We
recognise them on sight
practically every one of them
not otherwise intended as
none other than fellow-Aus-
tralians.
Even in its fidelity as factual
reporting that would be
genius; but I think there is
vitally more to it than that.
I feel that he created the
Australian: for better or worse,
he moulded into a permanent
form the prototypes of
what we are —to the extent,
too, that we swallow holus-
bolus a mere segment of our
country as Australia, and
accept with it, as similarly
representative, the mere seg-
ment of life in his own day
that he actually looked at.
Men like Bob Brothers,
women like the Drover’s Wife,
boys (not like Arvie or Isley,
but like the one milking
a cow, or, say, Bill Anderson)
—even dogs like Alligator—
are so convincingly Australians
(ideal, if you like) that they
carry Lawson’s Australia, and
so the whole Lawson Legend,
with them. And for ourselves,
we get this Legend—compact,
as all legends are, of myth and
fact and are happily and
literally bemused into accept-
ing it.
course, I am not suggest-
ing that Henry did not
accurately report the particular
Australian scene that he was
prepared to look at. You are
unquestioningly in Australia
there and then. He leported in
detail with insistent fidelity the
Australia he wanted to see.
And he knew it thoroughly.
If Colin Roderick seems to
me rather sweeping in making
out a case, I am equally certain
that A. G. Stephens was even
further out in asserting that
the only Australia Henry knew
was the Australia he saw in
one trip outback, along with a
partial account of Sydney and
some glimpses from various
seaports. All that A. G.
Stephens lightly overlooked
was the whole 16-years’ experi-
ence of Henry’s formative life
in one part of the bush!
But, putting aside that
Stephens sort of thing, as one
may similarly do with
Roderick’s, for the value that
remains in him, Stephens seems
to me somewhere near the
truth of things his truth
(making the Legend all the
more marvellous) in findings
like the following:
Australian scenery did not in-
terest him; the Australian bush
appalled him. The spaces were too
wide; the human contacts too few;
the mode of life disagreeable....
Sydney in the ’nineties, for the
average young man, was a jolly
town, with ample material for a
cheerful life work enough, and
wages enough, and freedom and
sport enough. I have travelled
the world, and I have never seen
a crowd so happy, so carefree, so
full of high spirits, as the gather-
ing of young men at the Domain
Daths on a Sunday morning in
those days—youths of Lawson’s
age and older and younger. From
such a gay concourse Lawson was
sadly excluded by his morbid tem-
perament and 'his infirmity of deaf-
ness; he sat and brooded and wrote
“Faces in the Street”....
Much of the life and death in
western N. S. Wales in a dry
season is still plain hell with
colored trimmings. But there are
good seasons as well as bad; there
“Our most exclusive group — We call it the Ivory Coast”
are wet spots as well as dry
spots; there is grass as well as
sand; and joy as well as pain.
Manhood and womanhood rise to
meet their environment, and con-
quer it, and sometimes thrive on
it, and upon the whole extract a
good deal of profit from it and not
a little pleasure.
All that, with much more
of it, is plainly a severe ques-
tioning of the authenticity of
Lawson’s own particular Aus-
tralia (of which it is the
representative nature, and not
the immediate authenticity of
its restricted scene, that I
would myself question). But
whether A. G. is accepted out-
right or brushed aside for
special pleading, it only makes
the Legend all the more
marvellous.
For what his criticism comes
down to is a further proving
of what an extraordinary
achievement it was for Henry
to have imposed his Australia
on us, permanently; so that
the whole country, imagi-
natively considered, might well
be labelled “Made By Henry
Lawson,” and the Australian
national character with it.
or tow merely detail
points may perhaps be
worth a passing note, especially
on the assumption that these
generally first-rate Roderickian
books are intended not only
for general reading but
specially for schools.
One is the suggestion that
the Hudson Bros, firm at Clyde
was actually Lawson’s Grinder
Bros. Henry himself, as quoted,
seems to say so, and elsewhere
he writes: “I was Arvie
Aspinall.” Against that, Henry
himself also specifically denied
that Hudson Bros, were the
originals of the firm where
little Arvie suffered. This is
perhaps specially worth noting
because that particular Henry
refutation is always brushed
aside as if it had never been
made, to the extent that now
nobody takes any notice of it
at all. Yet the refutation was
flat and specific enough, and
actually laudatory at that.
The firm of Grinder Bros, (it
seems to me) is a composite of
several similar places where
young Henry—like poor little
Arvie—worked and suffered —
the suffering in both cases, it
would seem, being at the hands
of understrappers and larrikin
workmates.
A definition of “strapped
trousers” is possibly correct
for one kind of them, but not
for the kind Henry had in
mind. Indeed, instead of
trousers with straps going
under the insteps, there are in
Henry detailed instructions for
making the sort he knew:
roughly, sit in a saddle, get
someone to chalk along where
you touch it, and then have
the chalked-in area oversewn
with saddle-tweed.
Definitions, though, are easy
pitfalls; and I myself freely
admit that Colin Roderick
would on all counts leave me
for dead as a researcher. I
have certainly profited by read-
ing him. There is, in fact,
little else that seems to me
off the beam. One thing is the
linking of Jim Grahame with
the Mitchell of “Enter Mit-
chell.”
Henry himself elsewhere as
good as says if he doesn't
even definitely say that his
old swag-mate Jim Grahame
and Mitchell are the same
bloke; but then, as Colin
Roderick rightly points out,
there are several Mitchells. The
Mitchell of “Enter Mitchell”
is described by Henry: “He
was short, and stout, and bow-
legged, and freckled, and
sandy.” That, emphatically, is
not Jim Grahame, of whom
Henry elsewhere says (as near
as I can quote from memory):
“My mate, Jim Grahame, hath
a lean and scraggy neck,” and
that he could sit at the end
of a fishing-line flat-footed
like an abo., which, I suggest,
the Mitchell on the Redfern
railway-station would have
found a trifle difficult.
Anyway, I personally met
old Jim once or twice when he
was up from the Murrum-
bidgee Irrigation Area (some
years after he and Henry had
renewed their mateship there
in 1916-17). He was Henry’s
later Mitchell. In this same
context, I would suggest that
when Henry referred to
Mitchell as “the goat of the
shed” he was not writing in a
1959 manner of speaking: what
he meant was “the wag of the
shed.”
A note to the effect that
Henry’s slight use of Timon of
Athens in simile “shows the
width of Lawson’s reading
before he was 21” is of the
things which I would reverently
and respectfully lay in obla-
tion at the feet of the Lawson
Legend. The map of Henry’s
Eurunderee country given as
frontispiece to the. Fifteen
Stories was a capital idea, and
the sketch of Henry with swag
and dog on the jacket of that
book and on the Companion
adds still more height and
breadth to the Legend.
I hope only that this Lawson
Legend will never get quite so
big that we won’t any longer
be able to see Henry. Though
one of the few who never per-
sonally met him, I am very
fond of Henry.


iivinc
1
SH
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
4 ‘The Royal”
To the man whose heart is
in the country, but whose
bread-and-butter comes from
Sydney, there’s one thing to
look forward to —the Easter
Show. It is like one of the old-
fashioned trumpet-calls in the
way it lifts workaday soldiering
into something worth while. In
the modern idiom, it gives
Sydney a shot-in-the-arm. The
fact of the matter is, of course,
that nobody’s bread-and-
butter really comes from Syd-
ney, and that it's good once a
year to be brought back sharply
to earth and to see where our
living originates. Better than
that, it brings in our friends
who produce it.
Broad brims and elastic-sided
boots make a change from the
hatless, down-at-heel brigade,
anyhow. But it isn't only that.
Fresh faces, tanned by the sun
and wind, with the unmistake-
able look of the man who earns
his living from the land, appear
in the streets. They bring
commonsense. A cabdriver
told me about one broad-
brimmer he was driving. Pass-
ing Wynyard station in a rush-
hour, his fare asked him to
stop for a moment: “Look
at all that crowd of folk rush-
ing and not two of them
could grow one potato!”
That's the truth, and the
sooner we recognise it the
better. There are great plans
going on for the expansion of
Sydney’s “golden circle,”
around Circular Quay. All to
the good, as long as we
remember that our living
comes from the land. If that
fails, we fail.
There’s the hard truth for
us “white - collared” workers.
When I meet my country
friends in the members’ bar at
the Showground, my toast
always is: “Happy to see you!
Speed the plough!”—R. G.
(N.S.W.).
Public Service Promotion
Promotion within the Com-
monwealth Public Service is
not as straightforward as
“P.0.M.C.” makes out (B.
1 / 4/’59).
When a position falls vacant
due to retirement, promotion,
etc., of the previous holder,
several months elapse before
a new appointment is made.
In the meantime, some on-the-
spot person who knows the
ropes may take-over, acting in
a temporary capacity.
This person is in a favored
position when the new appoint-
ment has to be made. He can
claim to have all the know-
how at his fingertips, and thus
be more efficient than rival
aspirants working elsewhere.
Rivals may invoke the seniority
rule, but as this, usually, is
applied only when all other
“I think I'm being followed !”
things are equal, the position
often goes to the man tempor-
arily holding it.
Thus the equally-senior or
more-senior applicant who has
had no opportunity of learn-
ing the new routine is unjustly
penalised. He may go before
the Appeals Board, but what
chance has he of proving that
he is more efficient than the
other man? He can only offer
his potential ability, something
difficult for the board to assess.
As a matter of expediency
this method of promotion is
tolerable, but it makes for a
lot of dissatisfaction and
wastage of talent. What is
needed is a system to ensure
that the most-likely contenders
fill vacant positions until new
appointments are made.
Permie (Vic.).
Voltaire on Religion
It was not Voltaire who
advised a contemporary new-
religionist that he should first
have himself crucified and then
rise from the dead (B.
11/3/’59). That advice was
tendered by Charles Maurice
de Talleyrand-Perigord, Bishop
of Autun, to one who had
already founded a new religion
which had not attracted many
disciples. The Bishop’s advice
concluded with the words. “if
you can.”
The only statement of Vol-
taire which might be considered
relevant to this slice of the
other fellow’s mind is con-
tained in a letter —“A l’Auteur
des Trois Imposteurs”—in
which he wrote: “If God did
not exist it would be necessary
to invent one.” That idea is,
after all, the mainspring of
all new religions.—Bon Chat
(Q.).
Wild Life Preservation
The Wild Life Preservation
Society of Australia has lately
held its 50th annual meeting
—in a marquee on Stony
Range flora-reserve at Dee
Why (N.S.W.).
Apart from its general work,
the society is trying to achieve
uniform (if not unified) control
of our fauna and flora.
Nature knows no political or
man-made boundaries —which
often cut right across a natural
habitat —and one State pro-
tects while its neighbor may
exploit. A National Parks and
Wild Life Service on similar
lines to that in the U.S. is
envisaged. The Common-
wealth reply to representations
by the society is that the wild-
life section of the C.5.1.R.0.
will gradually achieve the
desired aim.
The ban on the export of
Australian fauna has been
much in the news in Sydney of
late, with Sir Edward Hall-
strom wanting to send koalas
“as a gift” to San Francisco
Zoo. The intense lobbying of
the latter, on typical American
lines, has done more to prevent
than to procure the desired
effect with the N.S.W. Fauna
Protection Panel. Arbre
(N.S.W.).
The Toga Virilis
Why do we have a natura-
lisation ceremony with brass-
bands and brass-hats for New
Australians and none for Old
Australians?
A great event in the life of
a boy in ancient Rome was the
day on which, about his 15th
year, he ceased to wear the
boyish toga pretext a (a toga
with a purple border), and put
on the toga virilis, the dress of
manhood. In the morning the
boy laid aside his bulla (a
locket worn about the neck by
both girls and boys) and toga
prcetexta and went to the
Forum, where he was con-
gratulated on having reached
manhood, and his name was
there and then added to the
list of Roman citizens. This
was followed by a religious
rite.
At present the only way in
which the native-born ado-
lescent Australian can assure
himself that he has reached
manhood is in the sexual field ;
and, at 15, the native-born
Australian youth is doomed to
face several years during which
his inferior status in the midst
of an adult society is strongly
impressed upon him by the
adults with whom he comes in
contact.
Is it any wonder then that


so many of our adolescent
youth—as a result of frustra-
tion tend to express them-
selves in an unconventional, if
not strictly illegal, manner?
What these young people really
need is the positive assurance
that they are not scorned or
rejected, but are acceptable in
themselves, and this reas-
surance cannot be given only
by parents, though parents can
help greatly.
We don’t need more youth-
groups. We don’t need to
stress in any way the dependent
position of youth. What is
needed is something to close
the gap, which is getting
wider and wider, between these
young people and the social,
political and moral institu-
tions of adult life. — Liberalia
(Q).
Melbourne Bay Steamers
Melbourne is at the head of
Port Phillip Bay, branching off
which is Corio Bay, with Gee-
long at its head. Both these
bays are very fine sheets of
water, yet no pleasure-steamer
of any sort sails on them.
Years ago things were
different. We had three
paddlers—Ozone, Hygeia and
Weerona —running to the bay-
side resorts of Queenscliff,
Sorrento, Dromana and
Mornington. Very fine, fast,
comfortable ships they were,
too, of the<r type. On the
Melbourne-Geelong run were
the Coogee, Courier and
Edina the last known as
“The Grand Old Lady of Port
Phillip.”
Where are these boats to-
day? Sunk outside the Heads,
sold to Eastern owners, broken-
up in the ship’s graveyard on
the lower Yarra or sunk as
breakwaters. The last was the
fate of the old Ozone, first
of the three paddlers, which
made her maiden run way
“They settled it out of court”
back in 1886. Only part of a
rusted paddle - box now
remains, lying offshore at
Indented Head.
Of course, there were earlier
steamers plying on the bay,
such as the Excelsior and the
Gem, which ran from Port
Melbourne to Williamstown.
In fact, from the earliest days
of Melbourne up to about
1942 —when the Weerona was
taken-over for war-duty in the
Pacific—Melbourne had ample
facilities for a “blow on the
briny.” Today there is noth-
ing except small, privately-
owned craft and the launches
running between Queenscliff
and Sorrento side. Not so
many years ago the Weerona
(back from the war) was
reported as lying in the Parra-
matta River for sale at about
£15,000, but there were no
Australian buyers and she
went to Eastern owners. Is
there another city in the world,
situated at the head of a fine
bay, without its .pleasure-
steamers?
I can only assume that Mel-
bourne people are a lot of
landlubbers, preferring the
smell of petrol-fumes and
tarred roads to the whiff of a
good sea breeze. — Ceg (Vic.).
Science and Religion
If continued human exist-
ence depends on submission to
international law (B. 18 /3 / ’59)
existence won’t long continue.
International law is obeyed if
it suits those concerned, but
it’s only an idealistic concept.
To be effective, law must be
enforceable. But in inter-
national affairs might is more
often Light.
Any ethical code is power-
less unless it is an aspect or
offshoot of a dynamic faith or
religion. Cut-off from this
living fountain, the code soon
evaporates. All the main world
religions are riven by “jarring
and confuting sects.” Where,
then, is the world ethical code
coming from?
Governments are representa-
tive of their communities —-
Russia’s not less than ours or
America’s. They are leaders
of emotional mobs, the prey
alike of vacillation, hesitation
and foolhardiness. Why? Be-
cause, as T. S. Eliot suggests,
unlimited industrialism has
produced people “alienated
from religion, detached from
tradition and susceptible to
mass suggestion.”
The masses of these societies
have no anchor; they are
without roots and have few
or tawdry loyalties. Therefore
their lives are without that
shape or form which comes
from thought and feeling of a
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 534
Across
I—Do countries make gifts. (9)
6—Figure for 1000. (4)
10 : —Power doubt may be indicated by it. (5)
11 — Next log in mutilated U.S. battlefield. (9)
12— Growling Gould going to the Maori teralogy of
Wagner. (9)
14 — I am going back with Miss Zetterling. (3)
15 — East lake is spooky. (5)
16— For example, no time for a
South Australian Burl purges. (9)
20—Therefore, cry like a cat in this
place or in any place. (9)
22 — Actor whom 1-across takes to
Idriess’s. (5)
23 — Moslem suggesting an angle
which is right against one. (3)
24 — Lit disease you dug up. (9)
26 —Pitman out first ball? (9)
28 — The appearance of a member of
an influential French family of
history. (5)
29 Not moving, yet moving
rapidly. (4)
30 — East accompanying a girl to the
little Northern Territory
softener. (9)
Down
1 — Mine is to interrupt one who
does behave bossily. (8)
2 Attire close to neckwear. (8)
3 Tenth small bird he is after. (5)
4 Change for the low hooter. (3)
5 The censorable subject takes
youth away from one mother
over 50 —about 60, in fact. (11)
7 Timothy interrupts one to
schedule. (2, 4)
8— Nothing is after humanity but
an influential Melbourne pre-
late. (6)
9 It could become wet round a
bathing hazard. (8)
13 —Look into waistcoated ego and
entrance. (11)
17— Our fleet to take a seat in the
middle crossings. (8)
18 — Interim enemy who isn’t generous
Greenwich standard. (8)
19— When there are two for the first-
prize temperature of the
departed. (4-4)
21 — Main bulk of a range event in
church work of Kipling. (6)
22 — Here are four in little Dorothy’s
little clumps of turf. (6)
25 —Great Asian ruler makes Roy
Rene pull up. (5)
27 —Musical twosome. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 533.


high degree. Modern com-
munity life discourages
thought and feeling.
This, as Roosevelt called it,
is the “age of the common
man.” Careerists with no
tradition or culture are in the
seats of power—the products
of a century of free secular
education. Men like these in
charge with more power for
harm than the most evil kings
or aristocrats ever had—no
wonder the world staggers from
crisis to crisis.— Kurt Chagan
(S.A.).
What made O.F.M. con-
tributors think that I want a
new religion, or “complete
uniformity of belief and prac-
tice”? Science nowadays is
seldom cocksure of anything,
and keeps an open mind.
Scientists are always alert for
fresh knowledge and admit
each other’s errors freely and
promptly. The religions which
come into conflict with science
are those with “unchangeable
postulates” and an answer
from Revelation to every ques-
tion which crops-up.
Propounders of such creeds
come pretty close to claiming a
monopoly of “the truth, the
whole truth, and nothing but
the truth.” If Revelation had
been intended to be so specific
in detail and for all time,
devout and learned men would
not differ on its interpretation
as they do. For example,
Martin Haley (B. 11/3/’59)
probably would not agree with
“Magnoon’s” application of
those Epistles of St. Paul.
Both will agree with me that
we can have no better guide to
our duty to God and our
fellow-men than the Ten
Commandments; but the
Commandments haven’t always
been interpreted in the same
way. For instance, they were
not taken for many years as
forbidding polygamy or
slavery. Old Testament Jews
believed their laws on Sabbath
observance and divorce were
in accordance with the Deca-
logue ; yet Jesus attacked both.
Conditions had changed since
Moses’s day. They are still
changing.
When Jesus said “The
Sabbath was made for man,
not man for the Sabbath,”
He didn’t attack the Command-
ment —he attacked the priestly
interpretation of it. His words
could well be given a wider
application; but I wouldn’t
advocate a trial-and-error road
to any new morality.
The fundamental soundness
of the old ethics and morals
has been tested by trial and
error over the centuries. The
laws of God don’t change;
but our understanding of them
should as science gives us
more knowledge. We know
very little about them at
present.— Jas. Macansh (Q.).
English Literature Course
“Doynest” (B. 25/3/’59)
appears to have some miscon-
ceptions about the Victorian
matriculation course in English
literature. To put the record
straight, here is a list of the
set books:
Compulsory section: Milton’s
Paradise Lost (Books 1 and 2),
Shakspeare’s “Antony and Cleo-
patra,” and Smith’s Victorian Poets
(comprising Browning, Arnold and
Tennyson).
“ Cuckoo! Cuckoo !”
Plays (any four to be studied):
Sophocles’s “Antigone,” Anouilh's
“Antigone,” Shakspeare’s “The
Tempest,” Ibsen’s “An Enemy of
the People,” Wilde’s “The Import-
ance of Being Earnest,” Shaw’s
“Caesar and Cleopatra,” Eliot’s
“Murder in the Cathedral” and
Wilder's “Our Town.”
Novels (any four to be studied ):
Homer’s Odyssey, Austen’s Nort-
hanger Abbey, Dickens’s Great
Expectations, Butler’s Erewhon,
Galsworthy’s Man o-f Property,
Prichard’s Coonardoo, Lewis’s
Babbitt, and Dark’s The Timeless
Land.
It is obvious, then, that many
of the points made by “Doy-
nest” are misleading.
Firstly, four plays out of a
total of 11 books can hardly
be considered a badly balanced
course; secondly, there are
two Australian works included;
and thirdly, the plea for inclu-
sion of a novel by Galsworthy
is unnecessary, as there is
already one in the course.
“Doynest” says that the set
books should be by writers
“nearer our time.” Yet, out
of 19 prescribed books, no
fewer than seven were written
during this century, and two
during the closing years of the
19th century.
“Doynest” also overlooks the
fact that students have studied
some English literature before
reaching matric. level. For
instance, those doing this year’s
course studied last year for the
Leaving Certificate the follow-
ing books: Hardy’s Mayor of
Casterbridge; a selection of
essays by Cobbett, Lamb, etc. ;
a selection of contemporary
Australian verse ; a collection
of poems by Keats, Byron,
and Shelley; and Shaw’s
“Pygmalion.”
Surely the combined Leaving
and matriculation courses
provide as wide a selection as
could be desired, ranging from
the Greek epic to novels
written only 20 years ago, and
from historical sagas to modern
comedies. MAnuc. Student
(Vic.).
TV Defended
Unlike “Pat” (B. 18/3/’59)
we didn’t hire TV. We bought
it, and we’ve reaped an
enormous amount of pleasure
from it.
We thought at first that TV
was well named the idiot-box ;
till one night, with chores done,
do-it-yourself projects in abey-
ance and all available books
read, we decided to invest in
it.
There are, admittedly, a few
repeats of programmes and a
fearsome surplus of old films,
but no one compels us to look
at them. We’re fussy viewers,
and we don’t watch cowboy
classics or family comedies,
either.
For the first fortnight of
ownership we watched every-
thing—even a late film-show,
which was generally a cine-
matic antique dredged-up for
sleepy viewers too tired to be
discriminating. Now we pick
and choose, generally ending-
up with the A.8.C., whose
only failure so far has been
in liye variety.
We like TV's topicality,
enjoy keeping up on news-
worthy people and events, and
we’re also partial to the well-
produced whodunit.
TV is a wonderful nurse-
maid between the hours of five
and six, when dinner can be
cooked without the kids’
“help,” and an easy form of
entertaining difficult guests.
Since we got it our bills for
nights-out, baby-sitters and
clothes have dropped steeply.
We are indeed happy victims of
the one-eyed monster. — Inwyt
(Vic.).
Plays and Teachers
Won’t have “Doynest’s”
assertion that the average
teacher of English literature
knows nothing about play-
writing or acting (B. 25/3/’59).
I’m an average teacher of
English, and I know enough
about play-writing to under-
stand that the average teacher
of English simply hasn’t time
to write the sort of play that
would be profitable to anyone
from any point of view—even
if he had the capacity.
I can also assure “Doynest”
that I know a lot about acting,
for we average teachers of
English are constantly pro-
ducing plays in schools with
schoolboy actors of average
ability, and, even if we don’t
know very much about acting
when we start out on our
careers, we do learn as we go
along, and that all adds-up as
the years go by to probably
just as much as Shakspeare
knew when he, too, was learn-
ing stagecraft by practice.—
Eng. Lit. (Q.).


It was recently an-
nounced that new
markets for Australian
lamb and mutton will
be sought overseas
particularly in
Eastern countries,
Greece, Turkey and
North America. A
greater demand for
Australian lamb and
mutton must create a
greater need to avoid
unnecessary loss of
lambs. One important
way to do this is to
mark and tail them
the bloodless Elastra-
tor way.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
STANDARDS AND THE DAIRYFARMER
By W. G. WHITTLESTONE
Tn my last article I discussed
the problems of servicing
milking-machines.
Although most of my work
has been concerned with
problems not immediately
applicable to the cowshed, I
have from time to time be-
come involved in practical
questions. Some years ago I
took part in a survey of milk-
ing-machines, trying to dis-
cover what factors in the
expected by their makers to
conform. But apparently there
has been little change.
Recently I had the privilege
of seeing some of the results
of the survey being carried out
by N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture officer Brian
Calder. I don’t wish to steal
any of Mr. Calder’s thunder,
but will say this —what his
survey uncovered is appalling.
No modern industry would
action of the machine
are associated with
mastitis in the herds
affected. I was appalled
by the great variation
in performance of
different parts of the machines
we tested.
Since then much has been
done on milking-machines here
and overseas, so it might be
expected that some of the
recent advances in knowledge
of milking would have found
their way into the standards
of performance, to which
modern milking-machines are
tolerate such a level of ineffi-
ciency.
Seeing these results has made
me think again about the
problem of standards.
Every modern industry has
standards. Formerly there
were in London 30 different
voltages and frequencies in
electricity supplied to the con-
sumer. Today there is only one
voltage and one frequency.
Formerly, from the great
variation of lamp-holders and
other fittings, it was quite a
job making sure that your
light-bulb would fit the socket.
Today bayonet-fittings are
standard throughout the British
Commonwealth’. The same is
true of most electrical fittings,
radio-appliances and so on.
From the consumer’s point
of view standards are of great
importance; they simplify
ordering the right articles,
guarantee performance and
keep prices at their lowest.
For the manufacturer they
save unnecessary dupli-
cation of moulds and dies,
simplify manufacture and cut
costs, because standardised
methods mean less time wasted
changing production-schedules.
The distributor benefits because
less capital is tied-up in slow-
moving lines and fewer lines
have to be carried, so ordering
is simplified and there are
fewer mistakes in filling the
consumer’s needs.
The great giants of modern
industry, like British General
Electric, Radio Corporation of
America, General Motors, etc.,
use standards for most of their
products. In the U.S.A. there
is a large consumer’s organisa-
tion which prescribes standards
and is not backward in letting
the consumer know what
products are approved. If
you want to buy a washing-
machine, for example, you just
ring-up and the organisation
will give you a list of approved
products, with prices and per-
formances. A friend of mine
made all his purchases on the
advice of this organisation in
New York and found it a most
satisfactory arrangement.
As far as I can judge from
results coming in from the
current field-tests of milking-
machines, there is urgent need
for some standards to protect
the farmer against faulty
equipment. This general con-
clusion was not unexpected ;
but I must admit I did not
expect to find important com-
ponents so badly constructed
that a high percentage of a
large sample were not efficient.
When the whole story is pub-
lished we will know the worst.
The question is, What are
we to do? It’s not an easy one
to answer, as I know from
experience. In early field-
studies and laboratory-
work the importance of regu-
lating the vacuum in the milk-
ing machine became apparent.
I carried out a survey of all
existing vacuum-regulators in
New Zealand and a few from
overseas. Only one, a foreign
brand, showed satisfactory
performance.
At the laboratory we made a
model which met the required
standards. But nobody would
manufacture it. Years after the
original model was published,
a small company in New Zea-
land started to make a plastic
regulator that met the highest
standards of performance. I
would have expected many
firms to have a go at making
good regulators for their
machines in competition with
this New Zealand article, in
10 years only one Australian
firm has risen to the challenge,
and that was quite recently.
Why should Australian farmers
have to wait 10 years before
the results of research are made
available to them by manu-
facturers who supply their
needs?
For many years I have been
preaching the importance of
removing teat-cups at the right
point in milking. We know
from our studies that a rate of
flow of ylb. milk a minute is
the right point for stopping
milking. But I am wasting my
time if the farmer can't buy
a milk-flow indicator which
will tell him the proper end-
point for milking. Twelve
years ago I published the
description of a device for
doing this. One New Zealand
firm made a good indicator
about eight years ago, but here
in Australia it was only last
year that a' manufacturer had
enough enterprise to make one
locally.
It is interesting to note that
an American firm started to
manufacture an indicator of
the kind I originally described
several years ago, while the
vacuum-regulator developed at
our research-station is standard
equipment on one of America’s
largest-selling machines.
The pulsator is a very im-
portant part of the machine.
In one lot of figures I saw for
a particular district over 80
per cent, of the pulsators were
faulty. Now that we know the
importance of correct milking-
methods as a factor in pro-
duction, it is interesting to
speculate on the economic
losses caused by inefficient
machines.
In modern industry standards
are the way in which the
results of research reach the
consumer. Research means new
methods, better products and
lower prices. These results


build up to higher standards.
In my opinion, farmers’ organi-
sations should demand
standards of performance for
the parts of milking-machines
they buy. The approved article
should be clearly branded with
a standard mark. Perhaps the
Department of Agriculture,
with the knowledge gained
from these field-surveys, would
be the best body to do this job.
Among the parts which
could be standardised immedi-
ately are vacuum-regulators,
of which there are now three
types available in Australia,
with a reasonable level of per-
formance. Tests for capacity
and sensitivity are not difficult,
and it would not be a long job
to test every regulator avail-
able, and, like the consumers’
organisation in America, make
findings available to members
of the organisations contribut-
ing towards the testing-service
—in this case the various
farmers’ organisations. These
who make faulty regulators
would soon have to do better.
Milk-flow indicators are
another of these parts worth
standardising. To test them,
a simple milk-flow recorder is
all that is needed. I have
tested many indicators, but
know of only two which are
good. One of them is a
very recent arrival, so it’s
good to know that some
interest is being taken in this
very important unit of the
machine.
Pulsators could be standard-
ised. Though the testing is
not difficult, the problem is
more complex than in the other
two parts mentioned. However,
I think it should be possible
to set-up a range of perform-
ance-figures which would
ensure that the farmer gets a
reliable pulsator, with the right
action.
There is real need for doing
something about releasers,
some of which are hopeless in
their present form. Testing-
methods have been developed,
and again action could be taken
quickly to set-up standards of
performance.
I won’t continue the list. I
think it shows what can be
done to raise the performance
of the dairyfarmer’s most im-
portant implement. In these
times of low prices we must
cut costs of production and
increase the efficiency of the
labor we use. A good place
to start this reform is in the
cowshed by applying
standards of performance to
our milking-equipment.
Lick-trough
“P.O’D’’: For regular,
hygienic feeding of sheep an
open trough, exposed to
weather and dirt, is uneco-
nomical. Lambs, in particular,
need a protected trough.
Troughs should be built on
sloping ground — never too
steep, but enough to give good
drainage and keep the ground
dry. They should not be too
far from water.
Materials required for
building a trough are: two
pieces 13in. by lin. by 7ft. 4in.,
for sides of hopper ; one piece
13in. by lin. by 7ft., for bottom
of tray ; two pieces 4in. by lin.
by 7ft., for sides of tray ; four
pieces 3in. by 2in. by 2ft. 6in.,
for end-supports; two pieces
3in. by 2in. by 2ft. 6in., for
ground-plates ; one sheet
corrugated-iron 1ft. longer
than length of trough. The
frame of the lid is made of a
piece 3in. by 2in.
If cattle are run in the same
paddock as sheep, they should
be provided with a separate
trough, and the sheep-trough
should be fenced-off.
Color in Egg-yolks
“Pieter Nuyts”: A man
named Adams, from Hamburg,
called-in at Perth at the begin-
ning of an Australian tour and
told W.A. egg-producers a few
facts about their export-trade.
He’s qualified to speak on the
subject—his firm, which has
been in his family for genera-
tions, is the largest importer of
eggs into West Germany and
Europe, and is sole agent on
the Continent for the Aus-
tralian Egg Board.
Mr. Adams says Australian
eggs are generally well received,
but too many pale-colored
yolks are spoiling what could
be a good market. Dutch and
Danish eggs sell for more than
Australian, and are preferred
even at the dearer price. Some
food - manufacturing trades,
such as baking, won’t take Aus-
tralian eggs, solely because of
the pale yolks. With a good
yolk-color he could sell our
eggs in other European
countries where they’re now
unknown.
It’s no good producing
scientific evidence that there’s
no nutritional difference be-
tween an egg with a pale yolk
and one with a bright-orange
yolk. The fact remains that in
every country where our eggs
are offered the public want
that bright color. Not only
will they pay more for it ;
they’ll go without eggs sooner
than take ones with pale yolks.
That applies here in Australia,
too. Eggs-sales here would
jump if no pale eggs were
retailed.
It’s simple for the producer
to put color into the yolks—
feed the birds greens. As things
stand, if the producer doesn’t
go to that trouble he isn’t
penalised, except to the extent
that the whole trade is through
the general loss of sales and
consequent low prices. In
other words, the producer who
feeds greens and markets
bright yolks doesn’t gain from
his better practice, while he
loses through his neighbor’s
laziness.
There should be an incentive
payment for the sort of yolks
the public wants, big enough
to force every producer to feed
greens. If every egg-board in
Australia could market eggs
guaranteed bright-colored, con-
sumption in this country would
jump; there’d be fewer eggs
exported and they’d fetch better
prices.
Mr. Adams mentioned other
defects — poor-quality fillers
and thin shells. These two can
be corrected, and they’re not
the fault of producers — not
entirely, anyway. But only
producers can remedy the main
defect of pale yolks.
Pig-raising
[From C. L,. Goldstone, Lecturer in
Animal Production, University of
N.S.W.]
In Pig Raising ( 2nd edition ,
1958): L. A. Downey (Angus
and Robertson), it is stated: —
Pig-raising is a complex business
that can be learnt best by experi-
ence ; but since the amount of
personal experience that any one
person can obtain is limited, full
use should be made of the experi-
ence of others.
That, after a lifetime of
practical experience in pig-
production in many parts of
Australia, he wholeheartedly
supports this contention is
shown by the fact that his book
includes the experience of
many pig-raisers, experimenters
and research-workers.
Over the years a great deal
of information relating to pig-
production has been pub-
lished—mostly in the form of
specialised papers —often tech-
nical journals written in
scientific language. Such in-
formation, together with the
practical experience of pig-
raisers, has been presented free
of unnecessary technical terms
in this balanced and readable
account.
The author has selected
material most useful to farmers
who want to get the best from
their enterprise, beginners and
students who want to know the
principle and practice of pig-
raising in Australia. His style
is clear, straightforward and
essentially practical, and, by
quoting the experience of pig-
raisers, he succeeds in driving
important points home, inject-
ing a little dry humor wherever
he can.
Thre six chapters follow in
logical order: introduction ;
economic aspects of pig-rais-
ing ; breeds and breeding;
f e ed i n g ; accommodation ;
management. Pig-raising is a
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(2/4/’59)
In Queensland moderate rain is likely in the north and
south coastal districts during May, although rainfall may be
poor elsewhere in the State. Light to moderate, patchy
rains may occur in June, but there should be good rains
in a large part of the State in July.
Moderate rains are likely on the coast of N.S.W. during
May, although light, patchy rains may occur elsewhere, with
light to moderate falls in June. Moderate general rains
should occur in July, with well-distributed falls for the rest
of the year.
Rainfall may be patchy in Victoria during May, with
light rains in the northern half of the State. However,
moderate rain is indicated in the east-central and north-east
districts and Gippsland. Moderately good rains are likely in
June, becoming patchy again in July.
Reasonably good rains are indicated in the agricultural
areas of South Australia during May, with good follow-on
rains in June. Rainfall may be poor in the interior.
The agricultural areas of Western Australia should
receive good rains in May, the best falls occurring between
Perth and Albany. Rainfall may be poor elsewhere in the
State.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY
E §
G!
The Perfect Hotel
For BUSY Men and Women
Right in the heart of the city, the
Hotel Metropole is the ideal place to
stay during your Sydney business
tiip and at the same time you’ll find
its pleasant atmosphere really
relaxing.
Only a step away from Sydney’s
main business offices and handy to
shops and all forms of transport—
The Hotel Metropole combines
convenience and comfort with the
relaxed, friendly atmosphere that
has for years made it Australia’s
friendliest Hotel. Over 400 rooms
ail with telephone and hot and cold
water (85 with private bathrooms),
luxurious ultra-modern suites, day
and night room-service, fine, enter-
taining facilities and magnificent
dining-room and cellar make the
Hotel Metropole THE hotel for
busy men and women.
THE HOTEL METROPOLE
Where It’s Never
Too Much Trouble
B 0522. Box 1601, G.P.O.
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
Wool Type Card. This Card
has many uses —as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered—in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed,
or in the paddock, with a
type, perhaps, outside the
main run of your experience.
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing.
A comparison study, using
the Bradford Wool Type
Card, eliminates the possi-
bility of error. Your name
and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to
“The Bulletin” will send ore
on its way.
business, and the author keeps
a watchful eye on the eco-
nomics of his subject. Breeds
of pigs important to Australia
are concisely and adequately
treated, and the approach to
breeding is clear, factual and
easily understandable.
For success, the question of
fodder-costs and efficiency of
conversion of food is all-
important. The value and
economic use of the commoner
feeding-stuffs are treated prac-
tically with an eye to the pro-
duction of quality carcasses.
Questions of housing and
management are covered well,
with full recognition that there
can be no standard practise of
pig-raising in a country like
Australia, with its diversity of
climate, food-supplies and
markets.
The fundamental principles
are set forth, and, when one has
an understanding of these,
techniques for this or that
particular condition can be
developed to suit. Perhaps more
space could have been de-
voted to the diseases of the
pig, but the subject is well
covered in textbooks of animal
diseases.
This revised edition of a
popular book serves to bridge
the gap between the research-
worker and the pig-producer.
It is illustrated with excellent
photographs and clear and
well-prepared diagrams.
Thinning Stone-fruit
“Billjim”: The advantages
of a regular thinning-pro-
gramme for stone-fruit are
underlined by M. B. Spurling,
South Australian horticultural
officer. He points out that
when damaged, misshapen or
useless fruit is removed its
weight goes into the remain-
ing high-quality fruit, so that
size is improved without loss
of yield and harvest-costs are
reduced because fewer fruits
have to be picked and handled.
Thinning makes harvesting
easier and the thinned crops
ripen more evenly and require
less culling, while it also
reduces production - costs,
because labor is cheaper dur-
ing thinning-time (October to
November) than during
harvest. •
These advantages, combined
with a better size of fruit, make
thinning an orchard essential.
For choice dried-peaches,
cleanly-cut, complete halves of
sound fruit are needed; of
good color and quality, and
texture free from discolora-
tion. For canning, even-
ripening and attractive flesh-
color and good flesh-texture.
Size is important with
dessert-fruit. When supplies
are heavy the largest fruit sells
first and small fruit has to be
carried-over to later markets.
In Spurling’s view, thinning
is as important in orchard-
management as pruning, irri-
gating or manuring, though it
should not be necessary every
year.
Merino Field-days
“Hugo”: About 10 years
ago breeders in the mid-north
of South Australia began to
name days for stock-agents,
inter-State buyers and local
flockowners to visit Merino
studs. Examples of each
stud’s young and older rams
and, later, ewes were penned
for the visitors to inspect.
Breeders and studmasters were
present to discuss the finer
points and to persuade sheep-
men to buy.
This year 30 studs have been
presenting their wares in the
series recently concluded. The
season has been fairly dry,
which has not suited the young
sheep. Lucerne, much favored
in the mid-north, has not grown
well and has had little food-
value.
But with good stocks of dry
paddock-feed, the rams in the
four-tooth class should be in
good fettle.
The first week featured the
Bungaree type of stock. At
the studs with their gates open
to the public, sheep were
admired and critcised with
enthusiasm. Bungaree sheep
are renowned for their big
frames, medium or medium-
strong wool of long staple, and
robust constitution. When
sheepmen speak of the S.A.-
type Merino they are think-
ing of Bungaree heavy-cutters
or the opposition Collinsville
line. Settlers in the south-east,
looking to better returns in
times of lower wool-values,
plump for big local ewes as the
basis of their fat-lamb flock.
The second week of field-
days is commonly known as
Collins Week. Dominating the
scene with the usual fine show
of their blood, Collinsville now
has many daughter-studs pre-
senting high-quality medium-
woolled Merinos.
Poles Against Erosion
“Sundowner”: N.Z. soil-
conservator E. H. H. Kelman
says that experience in the
growing of willows and poplars
as North Island anti-erosion
measures proves that poles
taken from trees which aren’t
thriving give poor results.
Also, it’s better to use those
with smooth, healthy bark —
not old ones with moss grow-
ing on them.
The best material, he says,
is regrowth from trees that
have had all their branches cut
off. Otherwise use poles
specially grown in small,
fenced nurseries, and avoid
delays between cutting and
planting.
Poles should be 8ft. to 10ft.
long and 3in. to 4in. in dia-
meter at the base. They should
be placed at least 2ft. 6in. in
the ground and rammed down
again if they become loose.
The best time to get them in
is midwinter ; though willows
still give good results if
planted alongside water in the
early spring.
Damage from possums or
rabbits can be minimised by
using varieties such as silver-
poplar and pussy-willow, which
do not attract the animals.
Golden-willow is particularly
prone to attack, though it
grows quicker, except in cold,
dry conditions.
Generally, willows are more
suitable alongside streams and
water-channels, where their
fibrous roots will check gully-
erosion.
Poplars are better on the
slopes, Kelman says. The
Chinese- or Yunnan-poplar is
suitable on sites which dry-out
quickly. Silver-poplar is slower
in establishing itself, but is
excellent for controlling
advanced gully-erosion.
Mewing Pastures
“Windy”: However good a
pasture may be, animals will
find some plants more to their
liking than others, and this
selective grazing will eventu-
ally cause the pasture toTun to
stalk, with some plants grow-
ing rank and tall.
Mowing is one way to keep
the growth level and the
ranker species down. The
mower should be set at least
3in. high. If the sward is cut
too short the sun will get at
the ground and bake it hard,
the short growth will wilt and
the roots will be scorched.
Pastures with a heavy per-
centage of paspalum need
plenty of grazing, followed by
mowing when the plants be-
come ragged and stalky. Once
paspalum runs to seed, stock
will bypass it for the softer
species. A good plan is to
mow paspalum rather high at
least a week before turning
cows into the pasture. In dry
weather it should be irrigated


SHOES
MADE TO
ORDER
For over 50 years, Byrne' Bros, have
been makers of fine shoes. Built into
every pair—no matter whether they be
for men, women, children or surgical
—is the quality and experience neces-
sary to give the wearer the utmost in
comfort and styling.
It doesn't end there, however, for
Byrne Bros/ after-sales service is de-
signed to care for your shoes or boots
for their lifetime.
Repairs, renovation and re-styling are
just part of their many services.
Ring, write or call for further par
ticulars to:—
YRNE BROS. PTY. LTO.
15 Wilmot Street, Sydney. MA 5865.
(Opposite the Trocadero)
before the cows are turned-in.
Watering just after mowing
gets the short sward away to a
flying-start.
If the pasture contains much
lucerne the field must be
mowed before it is more than
a third in flower, with the
mower kept high to avoid
cutting the tender reshoots.
Properly managed, the pasture
should never reach the flower-
ing stage (many, however,
prefer to allow the flowers to
mature occasionally, claiming
that lucerne then lasts longer).
Particularly if watered and
constantly grazed, lucerne
tends to become stalky unless
mowed. A good plan is to
graze the pasture, mow, then
water. A soft, tender regrowth
will always pay for extra time
spent on the mower.
Potatoes Need
Fertilisers
“C.A.A.”: Trials in the
south-east areas of South Aus-
tralia show that potatoes need
potash, in whatever type of
soil they are grown. They also
need a minimum of 4cwt. to
the acre of super., and more
than this on some soils.
Go easy on sulphate-of-
ammonia, though. Two
hundredweight an acre is quite
enough.
The tests proved heavy
fertiliser-rates to be economic.
Different types of soil used
were: volcanic-ash; deep, red
sand over a limestone base;
sandy loam ; and grey swamp-
sands. The ash-soils had been
used for flax-growing, but the
other soils had not been
cropped, though they had been
carrying well-developed pas-
tures when turned-over to
potatoes.
Blue-tengue Disease
“North”: Some time ago the
Commonwealth Government
prohibited the importation of
cattle, sheep and other rumi-
nants because of the risk of
blue-tongue.
Recently C. R. Mulhearn,
Director of Veterinary Ser-
vices in Queensland’s Agricul-
tural Department, was sent
overseas as Australian represen-
tative on a panel, set-up by
the food-organisation of the
United Nations, to examine
the question of ticks and tick-
borne diseases, including
blue-tongue. He has reported
that blue-tongue is primarily a
disease of sheep, transmitted
by an insect, and almost im-
possible to eradicate once an
outbreak occurs.
When the disease was intro-
duced into Spain and Portugal
(1956-57) cattle were found to
be carriers, so the Govern-
ment’s ban on the entry of all
ruminants was a wise move.
Losses of sheep in these two
countries have been enormous*
though the disease is being
kept in check by compulsory
inoculation of all sheep in
affected areas. In Spain alone
about 20-million sheep are
treated annually.
Such an outbreak in Aus-
tralia could be disastrous to
the country’s economy. Mul-
hearn, however, considers Aus-
tralia’s work on research and
investigation to be of high
standard.
Praise from
Debenham
“Joe”: The Challenge of
Landscape, reviewed on this
page last year, has been highly
praised by Professor F.
Debenham, former Professor
of Geography at Cambridge.
In a letter to the author, P. A.
Yeomans, Prof. Debenham
wrote: —
Of the different sections in the
book, the one I liked most of all
is that on dam-siting and -construc-
tion—I have never met anything
half so practical and full of
comonsense, as well as original
ideas.
Also I was much impressed with
your section on high-level small
schemes versus huge dams so
beloved by the public.
Aerial Poisoning
“Sundowner” Aerial poison-
ing of rabbits in Victoria
during the last weeks of
summer showed the method to
have great potential. Using
modern aircraft, about 30,000
acres of difficult country in the
central and north-eastern
districts and Gippsland were
poisoned at the rate of 2500
acres in three hours’ flying-
time, which included the drop-
ping of two free-feeds.
Commenting on the results,
G. W. Douglas, the State’s Co-
ordinator of Rabbit-control,
said that, with good organisa-
tion, kills of over 90 per cent,
could be secured elsewhere if
the same technique was fol-
lowed. He said it’s essential to
use adequate quantities of
carrot or other bait in free-
feeding and poisoning, but
much has yet to be learned
about density of baiting and
types of bait.
One great advantage of the
method is saving of time and
labor ; Douglas thinks that
future developments will keep
costs to the minimum. If
aerial poisoning is used to
supplement more conventional
methods, he thinks there’s no
reason why the pest could not
be almost eliminated from most
areas.
Complete Ration
for Pigs
“Big Billy”: Trials at Rose-
worthy (S.A.) College show
that high-protein rations can
cut the cost of feeding and
handling pigs, while giving
higher growth-rates than the
standard ration of barley and
meatmeal.
Prepared as a result of over-
seas research. the new rations
made use of feedstuffs normally
available to Australian farmers.
One; ration for a young pig
from weaning to light-porker
weight (851b.) contained 18
per cent, protein. Five parts
of this ration mixed with three
parts of a second ration con-
tained 15 per cent, protein for
use from 851b. to 1251b. live-
weight. A mixture of l j part
of the first ration and seven
parts of the second ration pro-
vided lly per cent, protein and
was fed from 1251 b. to 1651 b.
In one trial two pigs were
run in small padddocks and
fed from self-feeders. In
another the animals were in
sties and given all the feed they
could eat. Results showed a
better rate of growth from the
high-protein feed and a saving
of 11 days in fattening-time,
as well as a saving of 801 b. of
feed for each pig—which
means less cash-outlay for
feed and less labor required.
“Bilwon”: If hay is pro-
perly made, loss in feed-value
should not exceed about 12
per cent. If made carelessly,
the loss can be up to 33 per
cent, of the protein, 40 per
cent, of the starch and much
of essential vitamins. Cereals
are ready to cut when the heads
are just about to flower;
lucerne, when about one-third
of the field is in flower and
young shoots are developing,
but short enough to miss the
mower-blades.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
Tbe Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to——
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
tree. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to "The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
Missing Friend
TO MONA FLORENCE UASHCOFF
formerly of Coppin Street Richmond in
the State of Victoria.—TAKE NOTICE
that your husband GERASIM BASH-
COFF (known as HARRY BRAY) of
Ferndale Grove Upwey in the State of
Victoria Carpenter has instituted pro-
ceedings against you for Divorce on the
grounds of desertion UNLESS you enter
an appearance in the Prothonotary's
Office Law Courts William Street Mel-
bourne in the said State on or before
the Nineteenth day of June 1959 the
said suit will proceed in your absence
and a decree for dissolution of marriage
may be granted and you may be ordered
to pay costs. If you intend to defend
this suit you must also file an answer
in the said office on or before the
Twenty-ninth day of June 1959. —E. K.
O’DONNELL, of 173 Graville Street,
Prahran, in the said State, Solicitor for
the Petitioner.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Want*
Hebrew Grammar, by Kalisch;
Latin synonyms.—6Bl4.
To buy books by Louis Becke. —
6813.
(1) To contact members and
others connected with 34th Inf. Bn.,
A.1.F., to learn the history of this
regiment. Information required by
present member. (2) Australian
infantry regiment museum in pro-
cess of formation asks for gifts or
loans of weapons, uniforms,
souvenirs, books, curios, medals,
etc., of all periods.—6Bls.
Information Supplied
From “Speleologist”: May I
add to the Service Department
answer (B. 1/4/’59) on the world's
deepest caves? As recorded, at
Grenoble in 1947 French scientists
established a depth of 3193 ft. But
on 11/8/’56 Jean Cadoux and two
other speleologists descended in the
Puits Berger (near Grenoble) to
3706 ft. —deepest penetration so far.
Tests made in the Gouffre Gacht-
laggia Bella system (Franco-ltalian
Maritime Alps) suggest that there
is a cave-system over 4300 ft. deep.
Information Sought
How to prevent turned-up wood
from cracking ?
No special treatment. It may
have occurred through using blunt
tools; there may be faults in the
timber, particularly if you are mak-
ing small rounded objects in timber
with a natural tendency to open-up.
Some native timbers have long gum-
lines or similar faults; if the turning
is worked to include these, they
might open later. You would
probably find the work easier by
using only very fine, closely-grained
timber which shows no faults either
on the long surface or aoross the
end-cut. Cracks in finished work
may be filled with the wood’s own
sawdust made into a paste with
shellac and methylated-spirit. Final
finishing and polishing cannot be
described fully, since there are so
many methods. Much of today’s
finishing is done with very light
stains or by leaving the natural
shade and spraying with a clear
lacquer. A textbook on the subject
would help—write to your book-
seller for a list of suitable works.
* * * *
What were the Duke of Edin-
burgh’s words on Australia’s
fighting men, spoken to ex-Service-
men at Canberra ?
At an ex-Servicemen’s rally at
Canberra on Feb. 17, 1954, the
Duke of Edinburgh said: “Austra-
lian Servicemen and -women
rendered a glorious service to the
Commonwealth and to the whole
free world, and their sacrifice was
heavy. But your service accom-
plished more than that. Out of
the trials and pains of war has
grown a conscious nationhood and
a new pride in Australia. Countries
are created by geography, but
nations are only born in adversity
and with the bitter taste of sacrifice
and sorrow. You and your com-
rades, whom we remember today,
did much more than defeat aggres-
sion. You have made history that
your countrymen will be proud of
for ever.”
* * * »
Some information on a composer
named Krommer ?
The following is taken from the
latest (1954) edition of Grove’s
Dictionary of Music and Musicians:
Franz Krommer (1759-1831),
Austrian violinist and composer of
Moravian origin. His real name
was Kramarz (“shopkeeper”)—it
should thus have been Kramer in
German. He received his training
in music under an uncle, Antonius
Krommer (Gromer), who had been
schoolmaster, organist and com-
poser at Turany, near Brno. In
1791 Franz Krommer accepted the
post of church choirmaster at Pecs,
leaving it soon afterwards to become
bandmaster for Count A. Karolyi,
after whose death he became
director of Count Grassalkovic’s
orchestra. After the latter’s death
in 1794 Krommer settled down in
Vienna for the rest of his life, and
won a considerable reputation as
teacher and composer. He enjoyed
the special favor Austrian
Emperor Francis 11. “As a com-
poser,” says Grove’s, “Krommer
was deeply influenced by Haydn
and Mozart, but original ideas may
be found in his works. His com-
positions, about 150 in all, show
freshness of invention and pleasant-
ness of style. This is shown par-
ticularly in his numerous quartets
and quintets.... Schubert as a boy
knew works by Krommer.”
* * * *
At what period in early Austra-
lian history did the “Agricultural
Rioters” flourish ?
They were men who were trans-
ported to Australia in 1830 and
1831, and, with the Irish rebels of
1798 and 1803, form the only
example in Australian convict his-
tory of more-or-less political
offenders being sent out on a large
scale. About 450 (more than 50
per cent, from Hampshire and Wilt-
shire) were sentenced by a Special
Commission which tried cases of
alleged riot, arson and assaults in
those counties after a series of
disturbances in the agricultural
counties.
Their character was reported
from Van Dieman’s Land as being
markedly different from that of the
ordinary run of convicts, and Gover-
nor Arthur was moved to express
the wish that more men of the
type could be sent out. Their
punishment was undoubtedly exces-
sive, but in the winter of 1830-31,
the time when they had revolted,
the Government was nervous after
the revolution of 1830 in France,
and the widespread outbreaks
seemed more dangerous than they
actually were. The sentences were
soon remitted: 264 of the men were
pardoned in 1834, a further 86
were released in 1836 and the
remainder —men sentenced for life
or 14 years—received pardons in
1837. Exceptions were cases in
which colonial offences had been
committed.
* * * *
Biographical details of pianist-
composer Roy Agnew ?
He was born in Sydney on
August 23, 1893, educated at Chats-
wood and Hornsby State schools,
studied piano under E. De Beau-
puis, and composition under Alfred
Hill. In 1923 a committee of Sydney
citizens subscribed to send him to
England to further his musical
studies; he remained there, except
for a short visit to Sydney, until
1928. During this time his “Fantasie
Sonata” was played in London by
pianist William Murdoch, and in
1928 his only orchestral work, “The
Breaking of the Drought,” was first
played in Sydney with Alfred Hill
as conductor.
A further five years in England
began in 1930, during which time
he gave recitals of his own com-
positions in London and Glasgow
and for the 8.8. C. In 1935 he
returned to Australia under contract
to the A.B.C. for a concert tour;
subsequently he gave lecture-
recitals and conducted recorded
sessions of contemporary music on
the air. His principal works were
“Fantasie Sonata,” “Sonata Poem”
and “Sonata Ballade,” which was
the prize-winning work in the
N.S.W. Musical Association’s
sesquicentenary competition. He
also wrote about 90 smaller works
for the piano, and after his death
Neville Cardus said he was wise to
have written mainly for the piano,
“the instrument he best under-
stood.” Agnew died on November
12, 1944.
• * * *
How many convicts were
imprisoned on Fort Deniso'n, in
Sydney Harbor ?
The total number is uncertain.
Surgeon-General John White records
that on February 8, 1788 (about
a fortnight after settlement began),
the criminal court at its first sitting
heard several charges of larceny
against convicts; some of these men
were given corporal punishment and
“one or two were ordered to a
barren rock, or little island, in the
middle of the harbor, there to
remain on bread and water for a
stated time.” Soon afterwards
(February 28) Henry Lovel and
Joseph Hall were about to be
hanged for stealing beef when their
sentences were changed by Gover-
nor Phillip to banishment on Rock
Island; three months later, on June
4, the birthday of George 111, the
Governor gave pardons to both
men and two other offenders, Side-
way and Gordon, who were
imprisoned on the island. Other
convicts were confined in the same
spot later, and it has been recorded
that some tried to swim to the
shore. In 1797 a convict named
Francis Morgan was condemned to
hang in chains on the island, and
three years later Joseph Holt
recorded that the skeleton still
remained on view. Meanwhile,
according to David Collins, local
aborigines were so upset by the
sight of the skeleton and the noise
of the rattling chains that they
completely avoided the rock, which
previously had been for them “a
favorite place of resort.”
* * * *
Brief history of t'he Dr.
Barnardo’s Homes scheme ?
In 1868 Dr. Thomas John Bar-
nardo (1845-1905) opened a home
for destitute boys in Stepney Cause-
way in the East End of London;
from this developed the organisa-
tion known as the Dr. Barnardo’s
Homes. At first, branches were
formed only in Britain, but, with
the overcrowded labor-market there,
Barnardo early realised the advan-
tage of extending his scheme to


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 18 78
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. 0. S. PETTERSEN, Manager.
Branches in nU States Agencies in all Country Centres
other parts of the Empire, and in
1882 the first party of children was
sent to Canada. Organised migra-
tion of Barnardo children to Aus-
tralia began in 1921, and by 1954
about 2600 boys and girls had been
cared-for under the scheme. There
are three branches of the associa-
tion in Australia, all in N.S.W.: a
farm-school for boys at Picton, and
two homes in the Sydney suburban
area, one at Burwood for girls, one
at Normanhurst for brothers and
sisters and young children. Nor-
mally boys remain in the homes till
they are 16 years of age, girls till
they are 164-. On leaving, they are
helped to find employment. The
Dr. Barnardo’s Homes are sup-
ported entirely by voluntary
contributions.
* * * *
Has there been a change in
the law as regards prohibited
immigrants ?
By the Migration Act, 1958,
which Federal Parliament passed in
the September quarter, any person
who enters Australia without being
granted an entry-permit at the time
of arrival will be a prohibited immi-
grant. The new procedure is that
a person not eligible to land will,
instead of being subjected to a
dictation-test, simply be told by an
immigration officer that he is not
qualified, and that if he goes ashore
he will be liable to arrest and
deportation. This is the main
change provided in the Act, which
is the fruit of long examination of
every aspect of immigration law.
The new Act retains parts of the
pre-existing law, but does contain
a lot that is new.
Brief Answers
J.T.: The “Service Page” does
not handle “For Sale” notices....
0.W.W.: Sorry, but have no record
of those advertisements, and have
not been able to trace them....
G.C.R.: Names of people worthy
to be so honored are submitted to
her Majesty by the Federal Govern-
ment. Best to make initial represen-
tations through your Federal
member... .H.S.: No information
as to whether it has ceased publi-
cation. Write either Swain and
Co. Pty., Ltd., 119-123 Pitt Street,
Sydney, or Gordon and Gotch
(A/'asia), Ltd., 821 Botany Road,
Rosebery, N.S.W C.H.M.: (1)
The last professional performance
in Australia of “A Waltz Dream,”
by Oscar Straus, was at the Theatre
Royal, Sydney, in April, 1939. (2)
Leading roles were taken by Melton
Moore, Marie Bremner, Jack
Arthur, Don Nicol, Bernice Claire,
Marie le Varre and Helene Denizon.
... .L.U.: “Wandella” means “bark
stripped from a tree”; “Gulgorah”
is abo. for friar-bird... .D.S.W.:
Write to the port authorities in
Singapore... .M.H.G.: Pushtu is
the language of the Pathan races of
Afghanistan and the north-west
frontier of India. Gujarati is the
language spoken in Gujarat, the
northern maritime province of the
Bombay Presidency, and also in
Baroda and adjoining native States.
....H.E.H.: Single copy 45.;
yearly subscription, 16s. Address:
Box 4714, G.P.0., Sydney....
P.F.H.: Your request has been
dealt with in the “Woman’s Mirror”
of 8 /4/ ’59.
THE HOLLIDAYS
“Let’s sit over here. I can’t bear anyone looking over my shoulder.”
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
H.F.: A flicker of promise.
C.A.: The locomotive jumped
the rails... .F.P.: It might have
made a story, without the uncon-
vincing sub-plot and the tacked-on
ending... .8.C.T.: The long-haired
type in crepe-soled shoes squelched
off the premises... .F.M.: It’s all
right, except that it’s hardly clear
whether Margaret is a cow or a
human K.R.: Run-out... .S.P.:
It just burns along like a cigarette
and collapses in a heap of ashes.
....R.W.: Stumbles in the last
couple of stanzas... .P.N.: A nice
picture of the cat....J.G.: They
ail moan... .E.T.R.: Not enough
local c010r... .L. 0.: The office-boy
says it’s pretty good—the best, in
fact, he’s ever read... .I E.: Hard
to believe all coffee-shops are as
murky as that... .F.J.: A vast
improvement on the other one, but
not quite up to scratch yet....
M.M.: Put it away somewhere for
a few years... .D. 8.: No, but
definitely... .8.M.C.: Yes, it’s “a
small poem”; but that’s not enough.
. ...M.G.: Bring him in:
Old Peter is here
With _ his swag and gear.
A builder by trade,
Put them all in the shade.
When he was a lad,
Cleared off from his dad,
Lived in Caves
On the Mountain for days
The dingoes did howl,
Keep it up .said he, ,
Its music to me.
. ...P.C.: That’ll teach ’em!....
A.P.: But you use the word “ope”
and you appear to be trying to
rhyme “feel” with “ethereal”....
V.T.: There’s some feeling in the
“Deserted House,” but your tech-
nique is amateurish... .P.J.E.:
What is a “siren-rent, time-timorous
aural fabric”? ... .H.E.H.: You
have a kindly auditor... .W.J.S.:
It is a little unkind to describe
the entire population of Sydney as
looking like rats, though for one
wild moment of vision your “publi-
cans with pendant pads” do catch
the eye Joel: Modern poetry’s
not really as bad as all that....
R.S.W.: There’s movement in it,
blit it doesn’t say much.... J.H.:
Better, in those circumstances, to
say “I” rather than “y0u”....
E. 8.: Not for u5....A.M.: “I
would especially treasure your
opinion on where regularity and
monotony of rhythm are confluent.”
That’s a tall order: what you
should do is read Angus and
Robertson’s annual Australian
Poetry R.L.S.: The verse is not
too bad, but hardly what one would
expect from your initials... .A.G.:
Try it on the bowling-club....
P.S.S.: Can only repeat your own
sound advice:
Go on, go on with strength.
Never let you zeal abate.
Press on ! It’s not too late !
E.C.: Since it’s your first poem,
here we have it:
TO THE WILD PURPLE VERBENIA
Everywhere you look mile after mile
I went to pick baskets full when a child
Then there were smiles and miles of
smiles
As if the painter and his brush
Had dropped his paint into the brush
Such a glorious sight to see
Ah ! Happy Happy Childhood days.
But I find I cannot stay
Over and over the purple carpet I go
As the Bride that goes to wed
Like the flowers on her bed
It grows and spreads thither
I could not reach out then
It so near and yet so far
I on a visit to my home town
I sped to the City station after station
On the hills to mountains to wither
In the heavenly rains
God’s handy work untouched
To die unwanted alone.
R.W.: Nearly... .E.G.S.:
That’s a surprising one. Come
again.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
One of the important events of the
week in Sydney was the opening of the
“Family of Man” photographic exhibi-
tion at David Jones’ Market Street store.
There are 503 photos shown, chosen from
nearly two - million, and sent from 68
different countries. Their theme is the
brotherhood of man, the oneness of
human activity. This theme is expressed
by the similarities to be seen in contrasts,
such as a small boy adding two-and-one
and Einstein pondering, puzzled.
There are some startling pictures in
the exhibition. One shows a babe imme-
diately after birth, another the work-worn
hands of a farm-woman. There are
joyous pictures of childhood, young love,
dancers’ and a particularly well-fed audi-
ence in Wisconsin (U.S.A.) laughing so
hard that it is impossible to behold them
without at least a smile.
The exhibition was opened by the
Governor, Sir Eric Woodward, who was
accompanied by Lady Woodward. It
will remain on view till May 3, and the
proceeds (2s. 6d. entrance-fee) will go,
very appropriately, to the Family Welfare
Bureau. Mrs. C. J. Pope, chairman of
the committee for the bureau, was
present ; also Mrs. Robert Wood, presi-
dent of the Wahroonga ladies’ auxiliary,
which organised the exhibition. Sir John
Northcott welcomed the Governor and
Lady Woodward, and it was from his
garden that many of the beautifully-
arranged flowers came. A tableau repre-
senting many nations was arranged by
Miss Joyce Trickett, who spoke the
theme-poem of the exhibition, “There is
only one man in the world, and his name
is All Men,” to a lute accompaniment.
☆ ☆ ☆
World Health Day, April 7, passed
almost unnoticed in Sydney, though the
new-model ailment for winter, 1959, was
announced. It is called Echo 6, and
outmodes last year’s Low Virus and the
previous year’s Asian Flu, though the
Golden Staph seems to be a vintage-
model. It may seem rather callous to
speak lightly of disease, but one cannot
help being impressed by the brilliance of
the names (so far as advertising-value
goes) of the new afflictions. Echo 6
(which is made up of the intials of its
classification) is as good a name as
Chanel 5, and if we are stricken down
by this flu-like malady, at least we feel
some pride in having the very latest thing.
☆ ☆ ☆ ~
Sydney people flocked along to hear
Dr. Billy Graham, and by attending his
opening meeting at the Showground on
Sunday 50,000-strong created a record.
It was, the American evangelist said, the
biggest opening meeting he had ever had
in any part of the world. Dr. Graham
is a vigorous and forceful speaker, less
fiery and emotional than many expected,
and his words in Sydney influenced over
3000 people to “decide for Christ” on
the opening day. It was a sunny autumn
afternoon, the organisation was perfect
(transport arranged, ss. return and a seat
guaranteed), and everyone looked happy.
This vivacious face belongs to Viennese
pantomimist Cilli Wang, who starts a
short season at the Theatre Royal this
week. As a dance-satirist and mimic she
is world-famous, having appeared in the
U.S., England, South America, South
Africa, Israel and the East and West
Indies since starting her one-woman show
in its present form. She says she is proud
that wherever she goes she can make
people laugh, whether they are Zulus in
Africa or highbrows in London.
The revue “Gone to the Pack,” which
is to be shown at Santa Sabina, Strath-
field, is set down for May 16, 18, 20, 22
and 23, not April, as was announced last
week.
☆ ☆ ☆
Women’s rights and women’s place
and women’s wrongs, etc., were discussed
in various places during the week. At
the Elizabethan Theatre, G. B. Shaw’s
“Man and Superman” expounded the
theory that the Don Juan types are the
prey rather than the hunters, and in the
stylised costumes of 1910 this seemed to
make news.
At the same time, Dr. Billy Graham,
who is the man-of-the-moment, made it
very clear that in his belief the husband
is the head of the house and no mistake
about it. This is a belief that many
would debate with him more readily than
they would the existence of God, some
saying that at least the idea had the
charm of novelty!
Then Miss E. M. Hoy who is a
salaries-clerk in the Department of Public
Works, and who speaks up for womer
in several circumstances (she made a
successful move to have a woman
appointed to the Public Service inspec-
torial staff and just narrowly missed
getting a woman appointed to the Public
Service Board) —said that a woman on the
Richardson Committee on M.P.’s salaries
would have given it “a more human
element.” In this Miss Hoy is certainly
right, but the M.P.’s would have got
their increases just the same, for the
inevitable contribution of women to such
discussions is ever “You ask him for a
rise. Go on, ask him today and don’t
take no for an answer!”
☆ ☆ ☆
It was sad to hear of the death, on
April 4, of MrS. Dorothy Ness, wife of
Mr. John Ness, superintendent of the Far
West Children’s Health Scheme. Mrs.
Ness, who was 45 years of age, had
helped her husband in many aspects of
his work, accompanying him on a num-
ber of country tours and assisting in
many ways at the Far West annual
camps. Matron Hill, the general-secretary
of the Scheme, said that although Mrs.
Ness had been in ill-health for three
years not one of the children at the camp
last December was aware of it, for she
shared their happiness and gave wise
comfort and a mother’s care when things
went wrong. She was a woman whose
spirit and nobility triumphed over
physical disability.
#
An attraction of this year’s fete in
aid of the Sydney University Settlement
is to be a group of girl-students dancing
a Hawaiian “hukila,” or fishing-dance.
Mrs. A. F Eastment (Killara) is teaching
the girls. Chairman of the fete (to be
held in the University grounds on May
2) is Mrs. W. M. O’Neil, wife of the
Professor of Psychology, and the
organising-secretary is once more Mrs.
J. A. Dulhunty, whose husband is Reader
in Geology.
9- V V
Forty overseas countries will contri-
bute to the “Wool Around the World”
exhibition to be held at the Diamond
Jubilee Sheep Show, which Sydney will
see from May 27 to 30. It will tell the
story of the traditional uses of wool,
its unusual handcrafts, and such interest-
ing exhibits as ancient prayer-rugs from
India and t r aditional European costumes.
Leading mills will release their new light-
weight spring woollens for both men’s
and women’s fashions at the show, and
woollen products for the home (latest
ranges in blanket- and home furnishings)
will be shown.


MELBOURNE
About 250 women met in the foyer
of Chevron Hotel for cocktails before
going into the Bamboo Room for a
luncheon to celebrate the completion of
“Campaign Hostess.” These women had
been responsible for raising the £28,000
for the Yooralla Crippled Children’s
Appeal, and they were received by the
president of the women’s group, Mrs.
Henry Bolte, and the chairman, Dame
Mary Daly. Lady Brooks, who was
accompanied by Mrs. John Buckland,
wore a waisted coat-frock of navy wool-
alpaca, the wide neckline highlighted with
a white pique collar; a flat bow of
velvet trimmed her navy grosgrain cap.
Dame Mary’s choice was a frock of black
faille worn with a sable necklet and a
beech-brown suede hat, fur-trimmed.
Mrs. Bolte’s slim-fitting frock was of
forest-green wool, her fur-felt cloche
bright-yellow. Lady Selleck (vice-presi-
dent of the women’s group) wore a mink
stole with her black faille frock ; her
attractive hat was of multicolored
blossom. Her daughter, Mrs. Geoffrey
Tolson, was also at the luncheon, as
were the hon. secretary, Mrs. Tom
Carlyon, the hon. treasurer, Mrs. Eric
Cottrell, and Mrs. E. L. Guest, who was
in charge of publicity.
'Ct * *
Conductor Dr. Karl Rankl, soloist
Glenda Raymond and members of the
Victorian Symphony Orchestra are
donating their services for a concert
which will be held in the Wilson Hall
to aid the University of Melbourne build-
ing-fund. Date is April 23, and tickets,
which are £1 each, may be obtained from
the ticket-secretary, Miss Middleton
(8J4972).
☆ ☆ ☆
When Sarah Elizabeth, only daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. Fred Gilder, of Powers-
court, Maffra, was married at St. John’s,
Toorak, to Anthony Creagh, eldest son
of the late Dr. Creagh Smeaton, of
Adelaide, and the late Mrs. Charles
Osborn, of Melbourne, she wore a gown
of white Swiss embroidered-lawn. The
fitting bodice featured a wide scooped
neckline and short sleeves ; a swathe of
white satin outlined the waist, and the
fullness of the skirt was at the back.
A crown of orange-blossom held the
fingertip tulle veil, and she carried a
posy of mixed white flowers. Sally
Manifold, Diana Gubbins, Eve Grim-
wade (the bride’s cousin) and Anna
Jensen attended her, wearing frocks of
coral-spotted French-organza which had
a bustle effect caught with three bows
of the material. The pink roses they
carried matched those worn in their hair.
Clive Smith was best man, and Malcolm
Brodie, Tom Smeaton (the bridegroom’s
brother) and John Downer were grooms-
men. Later Mr. and Mrs. Gilder received
guests at a reception held at No. 9
Darling Street.
* ☆ ☆
The president, Lieut.-General Sir
Horace Robertson, and vice-president
Mrs. Claude Couchman welcomed John
McCallum and Googie Withers at the
luncheon given in their honor by the
Royal Commonwealth Society in the
Lower Town Hall. Googie wore an
attractive sheath-frock of brown wool-
jersey printed in a cerise flower-design,
and her high-crowned hat was in cerise
melusine. Also from the “Roar Like a
Dove” cast were Edward Cullen and
Florence Dunlap. Other guests were
Brigadier and Mrs. Ray Tovell and their
daughter Anne, Lady White and her
daughter, Mrs. T. J. Sharpe (who is on a
visit from Rhodesia), Sir Frank and Lady
Kingsley Norris, Miss H. Robbins (she
is hon. sec. of the society’s younger-
group), Mrs. Olivia Gardner, Mrs. H.
Richardson and Mrs. Lennox Spiers.
One of the best-known and busiest
toilers in good causes is Dame Mary
Daly, who has never yet worked for an
unsuccessful appeal. Her work during
the last war was with the Catholic Wel-
fare Organisation, of which she was one
of the founders, and which, with its
headquarters in Elizabeth Street, did
a sterling job for men of the three ser-
vices. Dame Mary is also chairman of
functions and a member of the council
of the Victorian Division of Red Cross.
She was in the forefront of the Cancer
Appeal women's group, and her last fine
effort was as chairman of the women’s
group of the Yooralla Crippled Children’s
Appeal. This group, in a few weeks,
raised £28,000 out of a total of £142,000.
Dame Mary’s late husband was a well-
known medico. She has a son and
daughter, both married. Wilbur Williams
photo.
Famous Shakspearian actor Alan
Wilkie, who at 81 has decided to live in
Australia, was guest-of-honor and guest-
speaker at a luncheon arranged by the
Overseas League at the Victoria. Mr.
Wilkie is a member of the Edinburgh
branch. Present at the luncheon were
Mr. and Mrs. J. Provan and Mr. Alec
Hopekirk (the latter a most entertaining
luncheon-partner), Mrs. Fred Dennett
(recently returned from abroad),
Mesdames McFadgean and McLeod
(both of whom leave shortly for over-
seas), Mrs. R. J. Inglis (wife of the com-
mercial -secretary for N.Z.), vice - presi-
dents Jack Smith and Bruce Mcßrien,
Mrs. F. R. Davies, Mrs. Eric Simson and
Mrs. Norman Milner.
☆ ☆ ☆
Under the patronage of the Governor,
Sir Dallas Brooks, a gala-premiere of
the film “The Journey,” which stars Yul
Brynner and Deborah Kerr, will be held
at the Metro Theatre on April 21. It
has been arranged by the president, Mrs.
James Buchanan, and members of the
Alfred Hospital Development Appeal
Women’s Group. Seats in the lounge are
five-guineas each, d.c. and back-stalls
three - guineas each, and centre - stalls a
guinea. Tickets, which will be allotted
on receipt of cheque, may be obtained
from Mrs. Edward Cordner (JF1004),
Mrs. Richard Faulkner (20-4466), or Mrs.
A. S. Pierce (8J2522).
☆ ☆ ☆
When Patricia, twin daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Lindsay Mildred, of Malvern,
was married to Dr. Adrian Kenneth
Lowe at the Littlejohn Memorial Chapel,
Scotch College, she wore a gown of white
satin-shantung which featured a wide,
boat - shaped neckline, three - quarter
sleeves, and the skirt draped in front
and caught-up with an Empire bow. Her
long tulle veil was held by a pearl
coronet, and she wore tiny white flowers
at the back of the head. She was
attended by her twin sister Elizabeth,
Deirdre Hyde and Mrs. Lloyd Jago,
whose long Empire-line frocks were of
white chiffon. They carried white tiger-
lilies and tuberoses. Robert Cook was
best man and Dr. Jock Whitaker and
Kendall Francis groomsmen. Reception
was held at the home of the bride’s
parents.
V #
Theatre - executive and actor John
McCallum and his actress wife, Googie
Withers, were guest-speakers at the Vic-
toria League, he racily discussing the
theatre, she, aspects of life in Australia
from the viewpoint of the woman from
England, quite witty. The pair, with
Googie’s mother, Mrs. L. Withers, Lady
Tait and Mrs. Rupert Green, were re-
ceived by Mrs. Guy Bakewell (senior
vice-president of the league), and vice-
presidents Mrs. Robert Hamilton and
Mrs. Frank May. Among the guests were
Mrs. V. Nilsen, Mrs. Tom Parrington,
Mrs. Eric Ross, Mrs. F. Lawrence, Mrs.
L. Sangster and Jay Robinson.
* * *
Helmut Newton, well-known fashion
photographer, who has been abroad
working for “Vogue” for the past two
years, is home again. His wife, actress
June Brunell, is still in London doing
a series of Flying Doctor stories for the
B. but she hopes to return in a
couple of months. Incidentally, Helmut
brought back with him two wigs which
are causing lots of attention.


Minister for Education. By 1928 the
Teachers’ College had been founded
at Armidale, and in 1930 the Bavin-
Buttenshaw Government went out of
power. The depression banked-up
over a thousand ex-student teachers
for whom no places could be found: —
I had a sneaking sympathy for my
successor in office, the late William
Davies, when he regarded the new
Teachers’ College at Armidale, the
permanent buildings for which were
then nearing completion.... “Drum-
mond’s white elephant,” I think this
one was called.
To make use of the almost-empty
Teachers’ College the Principal, Mr.
Newling, suggested starting university-
lectures there; and in 1934 an Armidale
committee asked Drummond, as Mem-
ber for Armidale, to make representa-
tions to the Minister for Education. As
he had been back as Minister for
Education since 1932, it was easy to
arrange the interview, but when, by
the end of 1935, arrangements had
been made with Sydney University to
start a University College at Armidale,
the Teachers’ College was filling-up
again; and so there was no building to
house university students.
Evidently Sydney University, having
been set in motion, wanted to go on.
By March, 1936, Deputy-Chancellor
Halse Rogers and Vice-Chancellor
Wallace were mentioning to Drum-
mond that T. R. Forster of Armidale
was prepared to buy from the White
Estate the big home, Booloominbah,
and its 174 acres, as a present for a
University College. It then became a
question of raising £lO,OOO to finance
the first year, but in April, 1936, a
Cabinet colleague staggered Drum-
mond by moving that “the item—a
University College for Armidale—be
struck off the Cabinet list.”
Drummond secured an adjournment
and went to the hotel of G. F. Nott,
master-builder, of Armidale, who said,
“Is a thousand pounds any good to
you? I will give you £5OO in cash
and another £5OO in bricks the day the
job is started.”
So with £5OO and a promise of
100,000 bricks, Drummond was able
to assure Cabinet that he had £lOOO
in hand and was confident of raising
the rest. The proposal was saved; and
Forster agreed to extend his offer to
1937. But by 1937 only £5OOO had
been raised, whereupon Drummond
prevailed upon Premier Stevens to
guarantee the proposed college if the
£lO,OOO were raised and the offer to
buy the building were extended by
two months.
In the meantime, money being
scarce, Stevens threw out to Drum-
mond the barrel with which ancient
mariners used to divert whales that
might otherwise be charging the ship:
a Professor Hall of London University
was in Australia, and curiously
enough “expresses himself very defi-
nitely against decentralisation . .
Would Drummond “make some
appointment with him?”
Drummond had been overseas, too,
and he prints the long letter he used
to demolish arguments against de-
centralisation of universities—but still
there was no £lO,OOO, and Cabinet
might have won, except that at the last
minute Charles Mott and Miss Elsie
White not only made donations but
also promised to pay the rest of the
£lO,OOO if they had to. By June 30,
1937, the University College was in the
bag, and “Mr. (now Sir) Bertram
Stevens.... honorably fulfilled his
undertaking in spirit and with good-
will.”
After such exciting scenes, the
details of the establishment of the
college seem rather tame; but there
was the skirmish over whether Keith
Leopold, or indeed any other brilliant
student, might be whisked away to
Sydney University, and* then the
anxious time when, in 1942, it seemed
as though the college might be lost to
the Army. By this time Drummond
was in Opposition. A debate on the
proposed takeover was for some reason
or other refused by Premier McKell;
but the man with the say, Major-
General Fewtrell, had been Chief
Engineer for N.S.W. Railways when
Colonel Bruxner, leader of the Country
party, had been Minister for Trans-
port: —
Determined to study the issues
raised on the spot [Major-General
Fewtrell] personally visited Armidale
with General Burston (D.M.S.),
blew the scheme to pieces and
directed that the hospital should be
housed at the Showground. The
college was saved once again, and
the University College owes a great
deal to Colonel Bruxner, who in this
crisis once again proved a loyal and
vigorous friend. This attempt to
close the University College was the
last real threat to its existence.
Big Digs
A large book chiefly intended to
appeal with its illustrations, Sir
Leonard Woolley’s History Unearthed
(Benn; Lothian) deals with 18 big
archaeological digs in places ranging
from Troy to Sutton Hoo, from Ur
to the frozen tombs of Pazyryk.
Partly it is meant to show how
modern scientific research has im-
proved the techniques and immensely
enlarged the scope of archaeology; and
this is demonstrated clearly enough, if
a little sadly, in the chapter showing
that the Troy which Schliemann dug
up in the ’eighties wasn’t the proper
Troy, though it was in the right place,
and that “Agamemnon’s tomb” at
Mycenae wasn’t Agamemnon’s; and by
contrasting these valiant but unscien-
tific pioneering efforts with such mas-
sive excavations as that at Maiden
Castle between 1934 and 1937, where
an army of a hundred diggers laid bare
layer upon layer of buried history,
from a Neolithic “long barrow” con-
taining evidence of ritual cannibalism,
through the Bronze Age and the Iron
Age to the relics of a battle with the
Romans and the ruins of a small
Roman temple, with the house of its
priest, which was apparently the last
piece of the past to be found there.
All this, at Maiden Castle, was care-
fully handled and examined so that a
clear historical picture emerged; and,
of course, as the photographs as well
as the text show, there were some
fascinating things discovered. One
photograph shows a man’s backbone
with an iron Roman arrow-head still
nestling among the vertebras; and
another shows 20,000 sling-stones which
were probably dumped there by the
Veneti from Brittany when they
settled in Maiden Castle after Caesar
had punished them for their resistance
in 56 B.C.
Another photograph, though, of the
skeleton of a woman who is clutching
the bone of a leg of lamb, makes one
wonder whether the scientists, even
yet, have interpreted all their data
correctly. She is supposed to have
been buried in haste and at midnight
on the night of the battle with the
Romans; and it seems strange that in
the “hurry and secrecy” of that occa-
sion anyone found time to provide her
with a leg of lamb for sustenance in
eternity.
One of the most interesting photo-
graphs elsewhere in the book is that
of the Mycenas chalice, strangely
sharp, angular and modem in design,
which, even if it didn’t belong to
Nestor as Schliemann seemed to hope,
still brings us “into direct touch with
the ‘lliad’ ”; for, with its golden rivets
and its double handles decorated with
golden doves, it corresponds very
closely to the cup which Homer des-
cribed as Nestor’s, the one “which the
MORNING SONG
hove for brilliance sing,
Dimensions clear of sight;
All above towering trees
There is cunning in delight
Beyond experience.
Sing, birds, sing —
Experience beyond
Delight in cunning is there ;
Trees towering above
All sight of clear dimensions
Sing brilliance for love.
Vic.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE.


“A remarkably comprehensive job” (Adelaide News).
AUSTRALIAN CRICKET
A HISTORY
by A. G. ("Johnnie”) Moyes
“Full of facts and stories, generously illustrated, this is a book which will find a
permanent place on our reference shelves” ( A.B.C. review). 50/- (post 1/1)
Available from all booksellers and . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
AAGEEIQEE
Sergeanne Golon
i
ANGELIQUE is a French historical novel told with a power of narration
in the grand tradition of Alexandre Dumas. 31/-
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
old man had brought with him from
home.”
And one of the most interesting
stories is of how so many invaluable
papyri were found in the rubbish-
dumps of ancient Egyptian towns; in
the wrappings used on mummy-cases;
and, on one occasion, in the stomach
of a stuffed crocodile. One rubbish-
dump contained portion of a lost play
by Euripides. Another, the fruitful
dump which Grenfell and Hunt
explored at Oxyrhynchus. getting 36
basketfuls of papyrus-rolls in one day,
gave us a letter from a schoolboy
demanding more pocket-money and a
cake; many pages of Homer; new
poems by Sappho and Alcaeus; and
some of the “Sayings of Jesus,” prob-
ably dating from about 240 A.D., one
of which runs: “Jesus saith: ‘Wherever
there are two. they are not without
God, and wherever there is one alone,
1 say. 1 am with him. Raise the stone
and there thou shall find me, cleave
the wood and there am I.’ ”
Woolley discusses all this a little
drily; but the intrinsic interest of his
text, together with the photographs,
makes the book still attractive for the
general reader.
Reviewed Briefly
My Philosophy of Life: Symposium,
edited by the Rt. Hon. Lord Inman
(Odhams). It looks as though it’s been
a series in a magazine or newspaper:
Douglas Bader, Beverley Baxter, Lord
Birkett. Lord Gorell, Dean of St. Paul’s
Matthews, the Dowager Marchioness
of Reading and Sir Albert Richardson
all say very much what you’d expect;
but there is a glorious essay on the
philosophy of agnosticism by Sir
Harold Nicolson and a surprising and
pleasant one on “The Art of Being
Idle.” by Dr. H. W. C. Vines.
Breakfast at Tiffany’s: Truman
Capote (Hamish Hamilton). A novella
and three short-stories. The novella is
similar in theme and manner to Isher-
wood's “Sally Bowles,” but the heroine
is American and more colorful, and
the tragedy behind her grotesque
behavior is better understood. One
of the short-stories is a piece of sheer
exoticism about a Haitian prostitute
falling in love with a hard man from
the mountains; another is a tender
study of an old convict whose resigna-
tion to his life-sentence is briefly
shattered by his affection for a young
Cuban whose every word and move-
ment suggests the beauty of the out-
side world; and the last describes a
touching relationship between a small
boy and his childish aunt. The author’s
baroque imagination is everywhere
checked by exact observation and
touches of cool, deep insight.
*l* ••
In Youth Is Pleasure: Denton Welch
(Vision). Reprinted after eight years,
this is a strange and distressing study
of the mind of a lonely and introverted
boy. The gradual revelation of his
oddness, his love of the quaint and the
antique, his fearful and bloated
imagination, his obsession with sensual
impressions, and above all, his dread
of the crude realities of school-life
which brings him to the verge of mad-
ness, has a compelling, almost tragic
power. Though repellent in emphasis
and imagery, the book is written with
pity and truth.
* * * *
Cakes for Yeur Birthday: C. E.
Vulliamy (Michael Joseph). A how-
shall-we-do-it by a biographer and
distinguished man-of-letters. Twenty-
seven different methods of extermina-
tion are offered to the “Eufy” Peas-
willow Liquidation Committee. Which
should they choose for the scandal-
loving woman whose scurrilous tongue
and poisonous insinuations had con-
vinced the inhabitants of Raddlesgate
that a witch had come to live among
them? Concussion, repercussion, elec-
trocution, incision or ... ? “Bumper”
Joe, the professional called in to
advise, counselled against poisoning
(“No reputable gangster will use it, I
can assure you”), but the Liquidation
Committee settled on the cakes. The
intended victim didn’t. A grimly
amusing comedy-thriller.
* * * •
No Remittance: by Dan Davin
(Michael Joseph). A fictional auto-
biography of a gifted but weak English
architect who, after cooking his firm’s
books, is sent to New Zealand to make
a fresh start. He doesn’t. A snob as
well, h£ thinks his in-laws (Irish
smallholders) beneath him. They in
turn despise him as an uppish Pommy.
Begins in early 1900’s, takes in both
wars, the slump of the ’thirties and
extends to the present day. The
author, a graduate of Gtago and Balliol
who now lives in Oxford, in no sense
whitewashes his central character.
Especially revealing is his picture of
the conflicts inherent in a Protestant-
Catholic marriage.
* * * *
The Gilded Lily: Ernest Dudley
(Odhams). A biography of Lillie
Langtry, “The Jersey Lily,” who
emerged from a vicarage on the Isle
of Jersey in 1878 to become a society
beauty, the mistress of Edward VII,
an actress of international note (though
not renown), a disciple of ostentatious
living and the target for scandal-
mongers over the whole Edwardian
era. She is an excellent subject for
a rich and colorful book, but Ernest
Dudley has written in the cheap jargon
of modern show-business and has
failed to bring either Lillie or her era
back to life.


UPS TA IRS
• • •
[
'//
ST
There'll be no "cold spots"
if your home is insulaied with
8.1. Fibertex Home Insulation.
Healthy, radiant warmth
reaches EVERY room in your
home because valuable heat
prevented from escaping to
outside air by a protective blanket of
8.1. Fibertex Rockwool over the ceiling.
DOWNSTAIRS
In addition to snug, uniform warmth throughout the
whole house, you will save up to 33% in fuel biils,
reduce the risk of fire, add to the value of your
property, and enjoy quieter, far more comfortable
living all year round. And all this for less than the
cost of a man's good two-piece suit! . . . Ask your
8.1. Fibertex Retailer for the full facts TODAY.
M
::: r.
< ■ . y
MMW
mr"
Kp ' t?
a?
* v
£
LOSSES!
ff
•A
p&l
o«*
BRADFORD INSULATION
INDUSTRIES PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY: 7-9 Percy Rd., Auburn :
NEWCASTLE: Clyde St., Hamil-
ton ; WOLLONGONG: 30 Flinders
St., Port Kembla; CANBERRA:
Geelong St.., Fyshwick.
NEWCASTLE: Sorbys Limited, 285-
9 Hunter St.
Fred. Ash Pty. Ltd., Box 50of,
P.O.
WOLLONGONG: Nock & Kirby
(Wollongong) Pty. Ltd., 275
Crown St.
R. Barbee & Sons, 29 Atcheson
St.
Swans Limited, Burrelli St.
Sorbys Limited, Kiera St.
CANBERRA: Charles Rogers &
Sons Pty. Ltd., Brisbane Build-
ing, East Row, City.
A. Ingram & Sons, Builders’
Suppliers, Causeway.
E. Frohlich & Co., 139 Cunning-
ham St., Kingston.
District Producers’ Co-op. Soci-
ety, Causeway.
PORT MACQUARIE: E. R. Gentle,
Horton St.
KEMPSEY: Schroeders Pty. Ltd.,
P.O. Box No. 36.
COFFS HARBOUR: Schaeiler &
Sons Pty. Ltd.. High St.
GRAFTON: Schaeffer & Sons Pty.
Ltd., r.O. Box No. 12U.
MACLEAN: Schaeffer & Sons Pty.
Ltd., River St.
LISMORE: Ray Granger, Box 188 b
P.O.
CASINO: Heathwoods Pty. Ltd.,
Walker St.
MURWILLUMBAH: Budds Farm
Supplies Pty. Ltd.
TWEED HEADS: Morleys Pty.
Ltd., Wharf St.
LEURA: Leura Hardware Store,
The Mall.
PARKES: Marshalls Paint & Hard-
ware, 20 Dalton St.
FORBES: Jack Simpson, Builders’
. Supplier, 86 Templar St.
NOWRA: Ison & Co., 63 Bridge
Rd.
BOWRAL: A. B. Robinson & Sons
Pty. Ltd., Bong Bong St.
NARROMINE: Kierath Nelson &
Co., Dandaloo St.
LITHGOW: Braceys Limited, Gen-
eral Storekeepers.
TAM WORTH: Thibaults Pty. Ltd.,
Bridge St.
ARMIDALE: T. F. Mills & Sons,
Timber and Hardware Merchants.
John Richardson & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Merchants.
GUYRA: New State Stores Pty.
Ltd., Bradley St.
GLEN INNES: Glen Innes Timber,
Bourke St.
TEN T E R FIE LD: Arch Miller,
House St.
INVERELL: Norman A. Gardner
Pty. Ltd., P.O. llox No. JB.
MOREE: A. C. Reid & Co. Pty.
Ltd., Hebar and Balo Sts.
GUNNEDAH: McDonagh Tty. Ltd
GOULBURN: T. D. Godfrey &
Sons Pty. Ltd., Gannon St.
C'OBAR: Brennan Bros. Pty. Ltd-,
P.O. Box No. 28.
BEGA: S. C. Plevey & Co-, Carp
St.
TAREE: Connells Pty. Ltd., Vic-
toria St.
COOMA: Hain & Co., Sharp St.
YASS: David L. Lawrence & Co.,
116 Meehan St.
GOSFORD: Sterland Bros., 175
Mann St.
SPRINGYVOOD: L.M. Hardware &
Joinery, Main Western Rd.
BLACKHEATH: Tom Bennett &
Co. Pty. Ltd., Govetts Leap Rd.
ORANGE: Mr. J. A Boultbee, P.O,
Box No. 198.
NARRABRI: Logans Timber In-
dustries Pty Ltd., Dewhurst St.
KATOOMBA: Deans Paint and
Hardware Store, Katoomba St.
GILGANDRA: R. J. Nelson &
Sons Pty. Ltd., Eriban St.
WELLINGTON: R. J. Nelson &
Sons Pty. Ltd., 175 Percy St.
DUBBO: Wallace & McGee Pty.
Ltd., Macquarie St.
WALGETT: Dalgety & Co. Ltd.
BAIHLRSP: Dein & Readford
Pty. Ltd., 140 Russell St.
COWRA: Henry Francis Building
Supplies, Vale St.
WEST WYALONG: R. & G.
Stephenson, Timber Merchants,
Main St.
GRIFFITH: David Donaldson Pty.
Ltd., 8 Jondaryan Ave.
COROWA: Sammons Edwards &
Co. Pty. Ltd.
NORTH ALBL'RY: Clemson Hot
Water Engineering Co., 98')
Mate St.
WAGGA: Castles Eros. Pty. Ltd.,
Builders’ Suppliers.
COO TAMUNDRA: Frank Mitchell,
Builders’ Supplier, 105 Parker
St.
JUNES: .T. J. McNamara & Son,
Builders’ Suppliers.
LEETON: Mel Knight & Co.,
Builders’ Supplier, 17 Pine Ave.
YOUNG: Hammond and Hanlon,
General Storekeepers.
HAY: Cash Hardware Pty. Ltd.
CAMDEN: Camden Timber -Yards,
138 A rgyle St.
HILLS TON: Rose and Sons, Gen-
eral Merchants, High -St.
BATLOW: Vanzella & Co., Gen-
eral Merchants.
TUMUT: E. A. Bourne Ltd.
MUDGEE: W. Kellett & Sons Pty.
Ltd., Market St.
TEMORA: F. T. Mathews, P.O.
Box No 87.
NYNGAN: Wallace & McGee Pty.
Ltd.
SINGLETON: Lowe and Turner,
Hardware Merchants, 86 John
St.
PENRITH: Nepean Timber and
Hardware Pty. Ltd., cnr. High
and Worth Sts.
NORTH HAVEN, 2C: Andersons
Beach Store.
COON AMBLE: M. . Hermann &
Co. Pty. Ltd., P.O. Box 13.
CONDOBOLIN: Norman J. Doyle,
Builders’ Supplier, 20 Bathurst
St.
MUSWELLBROOIv: M. Campbell
& Co. Pty. Ltd., Bridge St.
MAYFIELD: Mr. E. J. Jordan,
Business Manager, Leanda-Lei
Guest House, 7 Arnold St.
NAROOMA: Narooma Builders’
Hardware Supplies, McMullan
Rd.
BATEHAVEN: Mr. J. Parker,
Estate Agent, Beach Rd.
GUNNEDAH: Gunnedah Sawmill-
ing Co. Pty. - Ltd., Boggabri Rd.
NELSONS BAY: K. V. Klaproth,
Hardware Store, Magnus St.
BOGGABRI: McKecknie Bros.,
Morton St.
EAST MAITLAND: E.W.B. (Mait-
land) Pty. Ltd., Newcastle Rd.
COONABARABRAN: H. C. Daw-
son Pty. Ltd., P.O. Box No. 89.
GOSFOItl): Sorby’s Limited, (Jo
Holden Street.
DUBRO: Home and Industrial
Comforts, Cnr. Macquarie and
Rultge Streets.
GLOUCESTER : Gloucester Dairy
Co. Ltd.. King Street.
K CII It I KIKKI: J. Tait & Co.,
Barton Street.
I’ARKES: I‘arkes Building Sup-
plies Pty. Ltd., Clarinda Street.
P.O.MADERKY: Reid A- Heine
Pty. Ltd.. Belong Street.
To ISK ADIOKI) INST LATH)X INDI sTUIKS,
r«*r<\v Hoad, Auburn, N.s.W. Y.Yi)7-tl.
l’lijjso send inn, without obligation, full information and illustrated
liiiTiftiiro i.n H.l. Fibertex Home Insulation.
.NA.MK
ADIMIESS
TILTX
