

The Bulletin
The Sordid Siting of Canberra —page 32
Wednesday, December 2, 1959
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
"If he doesn’t give us beef tomorrow I’ll have a piece of him!”


SHORT STORY WRITING
—4 FASCINATING AND
PROFITABLE STUDY
Stott students are taught how to write
stories that sell and are advised by the
College of the names and addresses of
reputable Literary Agents in various
countries who may be trusted to handle
students’ MSS. to the best advantage.
A student wrote: “I feel that, as a result of
taking the Course, I am able to go on-, knowing
what is and how to do it. I have learned
all about the markets, what different papers re-
quire, the rates of payment, etc.”
If YOU have a story to tell, learn how to
tell it. This lucrative field of Authorship
is waiting to pay well for good work.
159 Flinders Fane, Melbourne; 119 Castle-
reagh St., Sydney ; 290 Adelaide St., Bris-
bane; 21 Clrenfell St., Adelaide; 251 Murray
St., Perth.
——* CUT AND HAIL THIS COUPON - -
To STOTT'S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME „
ADDRESS
AGE (S.B. 23:39)
BOOK HUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult, to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
AMERICAN WRITERS
Since The Young Rebel in American
Literature (Heinemann), edited by
Carl Bode, is a semi-official publica-
tion —it is a reprint of seven lectures
that were delivered at the U.S.
Embassy in London—and since
obviously it is designed to give Eng-
lish readers a favorable impression
of American writers, it seems peculiar
that three of the lecturers should have
seized the occasion to give three of
the authors a thorough academic
caning: but at least —and this is pos-
sibly why they did it —it removes any
taint of the “official occasion” from
the book.
This reviewer, not caring for even
“Of Mice and Men” as much as the
lecturer does, has no particular objec-
tion to R. W. B. Lewis’s criticism of
John Steinbeck, who has not the
calibre of the other writers included,
but it does seem a pity to see modern
American criticism getting ashamed of
two such admirable writers as Sinclair
Lewis and H. L. Mencken.
Geoffrey Moore, who puts poor
Lewis in his place (or, rather, con-
siderably below his place), is one of
the two British lecturers included in
the otherwise-American panel; but,
being now lecturer in American
literature at the University of Man-
chester and having previously taught
at the universities of Wisconsin and
Kansas, may have become more
American than the Americans. That
would explain what seems to be one
of his principal objections to Sinclair
Lewis, that “Babbitt” satirised
America and for that reason was wel-
comed overseas by the “anti-American”
Europeans. He is at great pains to
point out that Americans aren’t in the
least like Babbitt today, which doesn’t
seem very likely.
There can be no argument about
Lewis’s lesser novels, except that
some of the later ones might be said
to broaden the novelist’s field rather
than merely to “water it down” by
repetition, but a viewpoint which sees
the author of “Babbitt,” “Main Street”
and “Elmer Gantry” as “secondrate”
and which in the end has difficulty in
discerning that he “was not entirely
without literary merit,” obviously
needs correction.
As Geoffrey Moore almost brings
himself to realise at one point, Lewis
presents the critic with much the same
problem as (of course on a much
greater scale) does Dickens. If you
compare Dickens with, say. Dostoev-
sky, where is all the mysticism, where
are all the torments and the probings,
where are the horrible and agonising
dramas of the soul, where is the
impression of a passionate and search-
ing sincerity? They are all missing;
yet Dickens remains; and is as great
in his own way as Dostoevsky is in his.
One saw life essentially from the tragic
viewpoint, the other from the comic;
that is the difference; but both view-
points are equally valid. Take Sinclair
Lewis and Faulkner together and you
find yourself in much the same
dilemma; and, if you are to be fair
to Lewis, must come out of it by the
same route.
Ashamed of Lewis’s simple, bounc-
ing good-humor, which is really the
best element of his writing —Babbitt
is an endearing comic figure as well as
a target for satire —Geoffrey Moore
says “I am half-inclined to say that
America has outgrown Lewis”; and
Lewis Leary (Professor of English at
Columbia University) decides in simi-
lar fashion that America has outgrown
Mencken. Mencken, he thinks, was
dreadfully simple and rumbustious; he
wrote rumbustious prose; he played
rumbustious practical jokes, such as
stealing Bibles from hotels and send-
ing them to his friends inscribed
“From the Author,” or parking his
friends’ cars in front of some notorious
bordello. Yet the truth is, Mencken,
was fun; and one paragraph of his
wonderfully rich and racy prose is
more alive than all the weary academic
niggling in this book: —
I am by nature a vulgar fellow.
I prefer Tom Jones to The Rosary,
Rabelais to the Elsie books ... I
delight in beef stews, limericks and
burlesque shows. When the mer-
cury is above ninety-five I dine in
my shirt-sleeves and write poetry
naked.
It reminds one of Robert Graves’s
poem about giants and pigmies. But
fortunately David Daiches is not unduly
embarrassed by old Walt Whitman,
who was the most naive of all the
American giants. In fact he gives one
a new respect for Whitman’s stupend-
ous “catalogue-poems”; and, if he
doesn’t make much of him as a
“rebel,” which is what the book is
supposed to be about, he is very
interesting on the unsuspected relation-
ship he finds between Whitman and
Eliot: Eliot’s (and Pound’s?) “world-
mosaic” corresponding to Whitman’s
American mosaic in the catalogues.
Except for Carl Bode on Thoreau,
few of the other contributors bother
much about the rebellious aspects of
their authors; and perhaps, since
rebellion tends to be a bore, that is
just as well. Walter Bezanson lucidly
discusses Scott Fitzgerald “All
sympathetic readers of ‘The Great
Gatsby’ cherish the intense perfection
of scene in which this story occurs”—
and, finding the heroes but not the
author rebellious, Carlos Baker takes
a useful run through the novels of
William Faulkner. The book as a
whole does show that American
writers have generally been rebelling
against something or other—though
not often on conventional Leftist lines
—but its chief value, whether provoca-
tive or sympathetic, is simply its
literary interest as a swift and clear
survey of the seven selected authors.
Words on a Weird Mob
It is always very difficult to generalise
satisfactorily about national charac-
teristics, because in the first place no
generalisation can possibly fit all the
facts, and in the second place so many
characteristics of one nation are also
characteristic of another. Thus, to take
a simple example from Sidney J.
Baker’s The Dram (Currawong), while
it may be true that some or even the
majority of Australians eat their peas
with a knife (No. 9 of our national
virtues is “Lack of social graces,
especially in his eating habits”), it is
surely not true of us all; and then, if it
is true for certain social classes, is it
not true of the same classes in all
countries? Has Sidney Baker really
given full consideration to the way the
less-privileged Eskimos eat their
blubber?
One reads his book, consequently,
with some reservations. It is very nice
{Continued on page 59)


Here are the Facts on
m
mm
mm
$
X < :
•••••• .1
u <•/
i
the Choice of the Experienced Man
on the Land for all Water Supply Needs
PROOF of the overall SUPERIORITY of Steel
Pipe over other types has long been established
—is still being established—on the basis of:
"A" COSTS LESS—prices include all necessary couplings.
At Not subject to damage by termites or rodents.
★ When laid above ground, minimum possibility of damage
by'stock or lire.
★ No deterioration from sunlight.
Pressure capacity far greater than most other types.
At Pressure ratings unaffected by atmospheric temperature
variations.
Less likelihood of damage during installation, storing
and handling.
lntrinsic structural strength readily enables overhead,
vertical or building installations to be made with a
minimum of support.
These are the facts that have guided so many
shrewd buyers for so many years.
For OVERALL Performance and Satisfaction, SPECIFY
STEEL PIPE and ORDER Steel Pipe from your local
Hardware Store, Pastoral House
STEWARTS AND LLOYDS (distributors) PIT. LTD.
Branches: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong, Geelong, Launceston,
Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs. Agencies: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie.
SSA 1.59


The Bulletin
Wednesday, Dec . 2, 1959
Vol. 80—No. 4164
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 436-440 King William St.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
SUMMIT ECONOMICS
''THE latest tactic of the Communist
bloc foreshadowed from Europe is
an economic war against the West. The
suggestion is not new. But it has been
built-up and relaunched at a moment
when it is also suggested that there
may be no summit-conference after
all; that Khrushchev has lost interest
in that project because of the
unexpected unity of view of\he Western
Allies, whereas he had hoped to
negotiate with a house divided.
Or, alternatively, that Mao had
shown himself unwilling to go along
with the plan until he himself was
involved in the discussion. Or, again,
that the Khrushchev scheme may all
the time just have been another ruse
to inveigle the West into agreeing to
admit Red China into the comity of
nations. Finally, that this being the
objective, which is now bound to fail,
the Communists have no further
concern in palaver and are quite happy
to leave the West confused, nervous
and deflated.
JVD plan is too fantastic to accept
when it emanates from Moscow.
And there is logic in the belief held in
some quarters that what the Com-
munists actually have in hand is a
concerted scheme to throw a great
trade-offensive across the East Euro-
pean borders at the West as part of a
world softening-up programme.
There is evidence to support the
application to Eastern Europe and
Russia of the idea of the common
market, already being applied in the
West.
This would enable the longed-for
integration of the captive East Euro-
pean satellites into the U.S.S.R. itself.
A first step would be linkage of power
systems and the export organisations of
the Red bloc.
Access to the West would be used
as a channel of trade in Europe, while
China used its newly acquired stepping-
stones as bases for economic penetra-
tion into the core of Asia.
The first stages would be aimed
at internal organisation; the second
at turning the new and organised
specialisation against the most vulner-
able markets in the Western world.
Steel, coal and other heavy products,
supplied abundantly by the employ-
ment of Russia’s promised surplus of
engineers and technicians and pro-
duced cheaply through slave-labor,
would be unloaded competitively and
channelled to wreck some particular
Western line of business at a particu-
lar time.
A Russian wheat surplus (if such a
thing could ever exist in the hungry
empire) might be unloaded on the
market at sacrifice prices in a strategi-
cally bad year for the West. Or a set
might be made at capturing the
special-steels market of a large country
beset with difficulties such as those
arising out of the U.S. steel strike.
This approach would definitely
establish Russians in the countries
pressurised and make Russian equip-
ment “standard practice.”
Once Russian types of plant-
components are established continuity
of connection is also established.
That any such scheme is conceived
does not necessarily mean that it will
succeed. The major failures of Russian
policy in the past decade cannot be
counted on the fingers of two hands.
But there is no doubt about the damage
that could be wrought even in partial
failure or partial accomplishment of
the main objective.
YX/TIILE much is heard about the
common markets of Western
Europe and their organisation, the pro-
gress of the Soviet bloc’s Council for
Mutual Economic Aid (Komekon),
born a decade ago. continues to extend
its operations under a cloak of silence.
Neither the leaders at the Twenty-
first Conference of the Communist
Party of the U.S.S.R. nor Khrushchev
have had a word to say about the
tenth anniversary of the foundation of
the strange pact.
In fact,, if it were not for occasional
unguarded references to the arrange-
ment by leaders in the satellite States
of Eastern Europe, nothing would be
known about what is taking place.
It is, however, beyond doubt that
at the Komekon conference held in
Warsaw in June, 1957, the Soviet
Union put forward a programme obvi-
ously designed to build Poland,
Hungary, the Baltic countries and
Czechoslovakia into the structure of
the U S.S.R.
Komekon is the civilian and
economic parallel of the Warsaw
Military Pact. Both have the same
purpose, judging by the ingredients of
the fifteen-year multilateral plan put
forward by the Soviet Union: to pro-
mote economic war on the Western
way of life and advance the cause of
Communist world-revolution. The two
pacts are interlocking and planned for
conquest.
The last full conference of Komekon
was held in Bucharest during June
26-28 last year. The satellite news-
agencies announced that it had been
mainly concerned with the discussion
of long-term plans, but there was no
sign of long-term plans in its resolu-
tions, some of which came to light
later on.
During the year its working-
committees have held no fewer than
78 known meetings, and, whereas in
the early part of its history they laid
emphasis on machine-building and
toolmaking industries, they have
diverted their interests to chemical,
petroleum and metallurgy.
■pLANS were made at Tirana last May
to lay pipelines to carry crude oil
throughout the satellite countries from
Russia. New ironworks were planned
for Czechoslovakia and metallurgical
plants for Bulgaria.
An integral feature of the planning
seems to be that no country among
the satellites shall be self-contained.
Each will devote itself to one facet of
industrial development so that all must
be interdependent and producing
export surpluses of their specialities—
and all ultimately dependent on Russia
for energy sources. Electricity-supply,
as the result of the conference held at
Tirana in May this year, is being tied
to Russian production by cables which
run all the way from Russia to the
Mediterranean.
East Germany, Poland, Czechoslo-
vakia. Hungary and Rumania are all
to be tied, as a result of this latest
arrangement, into the Soviet Union
electricity-grids between this year and
1964.
It is obvious that production-centres
have been shifted to be near the outlets
to the Western world, but at the same
time co-operative arrangements have
been made with China and its satellites.
On the whole it is a matter which
is just as important to the West as the
Russian armament programme.
The move is undoubtedly aggressive,
because electrical and oil integration
presumes the permanent enclosure of
Berlin and the exclusion of Western
services from the beleaguered city.
It seems to show how little can be
expected from summit - conferences,
even though it is still wise that one
should be held, if only to glean some of
the true facts.


ECONOMIC BOMB


PLAIN ENGLISH
Productivity—It's Wonderful!
When, in the recuperative years after
World War 11, Australian output of
goods and services was far below the
requirements of the community, and,
instead of increased effort by trade-
unions, strikes were the order of the day,
“productivity” was regarded as a dirty
word in Labor circles.
Of the few Labor men who dared use
the offensive term, two were Cosgrove,
Premier of Tasmania, and F. P. Walsh,
president of the N.Z. Federation of
Labor. But among the Calwells, Evatts,
Healys, Monks and the like, there was
never any urging the nation on to greater
productivity. And with Menzies and
Fadden the position wasn’t much dif-
ferent. To talk openly of greater pro-
ductivity— to hint that anyone should
have to work longer, harder or more
diligently in order to correct our economic
problems—was considered to be a
political gaffe.
The Bulletin for the past 15 years
has insisted that the essence of our
economic problem has been that we
have not had enough productivity, not
enough saving, not enough profit and not
enough home-produced capital.
In 1947 the Commonwealth Arbitra-
tion Court struck the greatest blow
against productivity our economy has
ever suffered when it introduced the
40-hour week. It pushed our backward
economy several steps further backward.
Productivity was again hampered when
the 1950 “prosperity” (not “produc-
tivity”) loading was added to the basic
wage.
On January 31, 1956, eight university
economists issued a manifesto denounc-
ing our “spendthrift economy” and
expressing alarm at the growth of infla-
tion The Bulletin at the time pointed
out that they managed to get the whole
thing off their collective chests without
mentioning the word “productivity”
once.
This manifesto was followed within a
matter of weeks by the Menzies-Fadden
“Little Budget” imposing additional
taxation to check public spending and
to curb imports. But again no mention
of that word “productivity”—let’s not
face it!
About this time the Commonwealth
Arbitration Court took the useful step
of suspending automatic quarterly basic-
wage adjustments. This was aimed at
slowing-down inflation, which it did. It
also, indirectly, was an aid to pro-
ductivity.
Over the past 20 years industry, with-
out the help of any enlightened taxation
policy (especially in regard to deprecia-
tion allowances, double-taxation of com-
pany-dividends or let-up on undistributed
profits of private companies), has
ploughed-back profits at the expense
of dividends to shareholders. The out-
standing example is 8.H.P., which pays
only 8| per cent, a year in dividends. By
this and other means plant has been
modernised and vastly extended, so
increasing productivity. Though there
has been the odd exception, that has been
the pattern throughout our industries,
helped latterly by an influx of overseas
capital to supplement our own.
“Productivity,” having been achieved,
though by no means in the measure really
required by us, has ceased to be a dirty
word in trade-union circles any longer.
Following the Federal Arbitration Com-
mission’s award, last week, of a 28 p.c.
increase in wage-margins in the metal
trades, trade-union comment was that it
did not give wage-earners a full share of
increasing productivity. Sir Douglas
Copland has just returned from discussion
with a productivity council in the U.K.
and has been talking about it as the
A.B.C.’s guest-of-honor. And in their
margins judgment the judges of the com-
mission said they had taken into account
productivity as a factor in the increased
economic strength of the country.
Productivity—it has arrived!
Realities and Russia
In the face of all the airy talk of peace
from Khrushchev, the realities which
test Moscow’s sincerity don’t give much
ground for optimism.
The debate on Hungary in the United
Nations was not a promising sign. The
Russians, with eyes piously upraised,
showed indignation that the West should
actually exhibit any desire to inquire into
the internal affairs of a “nation” which
was mercilessly liquidating its political
opposition through executions and
allowing them to rot in lightless cells.
And the Soviet Union’s flat refusal to
allow Sir Leslie Munro, the accredited
investigator of U.N., to enter Hungary
to examine the facts was surely a cynical
negation of the stand it took at U.N.
A Government which is kept in office—
and in order —by Russian tanks and
guns is about as much a free agent as
its captives.
If it moved an inch away from
Russian policy the Kremlin would wipe
it out with no more qualms than are
being shown about keeping under-age
youths in prison until they reach legal
manhood and then incontinently execut-
ing them.
The one vote opposing the debate
on Hungary added to that of the Soviet
Union and its team was that of Yugo-
slavia, which is afraid to stir-up Russian
feelings about Hungary too much, since
it might provoke the Russian Army com-
manders to discover and send a
“Patriotic People’s Government” from
Moscow to take-over Belgrade in accord-
ance with the “will of the people.”
Away from Hungary, Comrade Georgi
Zhukov arrived in London on November
22 calling loudly and suavely for “a
wide agreement on cultural and scientific
and educational matters,” which, he
said, he hoped to negotiate with the
British Council.
He obviously found it difficult to
explain why an agreement between
official bodies was necessary instead of
merely allowing free interchange between
scientists, writers and educationists.
When somebody asked him what he
had to say about the fact that 30 books
and periodicals had been taken out of
the British Council Exhibition in Moscow
on the insistence of the Russian Ministry
for Culture, Mr. Malik, the Russian
Ambassador, spoke quickly and sharply
to him, and he hurriedly rose and
departed without answering.
The books removed from the exhibi-
tion included “Keesing’s Contemporary
Archives” and the “Annual Register,”
which are unbiased daily records of
world events served up without prejudice
or comment; “The Economist”; “Time
and Tide”; “The Hibbert Journal”; works
by Bertrand Russell and other philo-
sophers ; modern authoritative works on
Hitler and his fall which indicate to the
Russian people that others than the
Russians had a hand in his downfall
and that Stalin was not altogether
unfriendly to him at one period.
They also include works by the Regius
Professor of Modern History at Oxford
and by A. L. Rowse, Fellow of All
Souls, Oxford, on “The Later
Churchills.” Also Huxley’s Brave New
'World and Laurence Brander’s George
Orwell.
No Hide, No Christmas-box
There is no rhinoceros in the N.S.W.
House of Assembly, but if one of Sir
Edward Hallstrom’s pets happened to
wander into that august assembly he
would probably find his relatively tender
skin something of a handicap.
Although the Macquarie-street M.L.A.s
of all parties seem to have surprisingly
thin skins when standing-up to the
verbal darts flung at them by their
political opponents, there are times when
their outer integument seems to be almost
impenetrable. But if, as seems very
likely, they rush through a bill to give
themselves a salary-rise before adjourn-
ing for the Christmas recess, back-dating
it to July 1, they should will their skins
to the nation for bomb-proofing H-bomb
shelters.
The last N.S.W. election was held on
March 21. In the course of the election-
campaign all parties made lots of
promises and lots of accusations. But
no Government or Opposition candidate
said anything about higher pay for
M.P.s, and neither side accused the other
of intending to touch the taxpayer for
a rise. Yet it seems that there was already
a gentlemen’s agreement to get together
after the election and decide by how
much the value of a N.S.W. Assembly-
man had risen in the three years since
their last rise.
Last winter, when the Government was
being criticised for not calling Parlia-
ment together to get on with the business
of the State, an all-party committee was
hard at work, grappling with that all-
important problem. Unless all the dogs
are barking on the wrong note, they fixed
the total rise (salary and allowance) at
£SOO a year—a good round figure which
hardly suggests very deep research or
difficult calculation.
If the old saying “No hide, no


Christmas-box” holds good it will be an
interesting exercise for a skin-merchant to
work out the value in hides of £SOO a
year (including £250 in a lump sum).
Defence Changes
The new defence-plan issued by the
Federal Cabinet deals with details and
rearrangements of the services and
armament rather than with broad policy
—which is unchanged.
Global war, conceived as a deliberate
act of policy, is unlikely, and Cabinet
believes its defence-scheme should there-
fore be aimed to maintain ability to
react promptly and effectively in con-
junction with the Western Allies in any
limited war which may break out.
This involves continued contribution
to the maintenance of a British Com-
monwealth Strategic Reserve in Malaya
and general participation in Common-
wealth defence and in Seato and Anzus.
Cabinet’s views naturally are framed
to preserve a balance between civil
administration and defence, having
regard to the Government’s financial
and manpower resources.
The role of the R.A.N., for instance,
is very largely strategic—to keep the
seas open for freedom of movement in
war, placing special emphasis on anti-
submarine capabilities of the fleet.
The Cabinet has agreed that the carrier
programme as it exists is obsolete, along
with the five squadrons of Sea Venoms
and Gannet anti-submarine aircraft.
These will be entirely worn-out by 1963 ;
H.M.A.S. Melbourne will then be useless
for launching of more modern craft.
The cost of a new carrier would be
prohibitive.
The operational fleet of three Darings,
built in Australian shipyards, two Battle-
class destroyers, three fast anti-sub-
marine frigates and training- and survey-
ships and miscellaneous craft will be
supplemented by the construction of four
new-type anti-submarine vessels, two of
which will come into use during the three
years covered by the new defence-pro-
gramme.
These ships, an ideal, compact unit
for strategic purposes in conjunction
with other British Commonwealth forces,
have a backstop of a large number of
small and effective vessels in reserve.
The rumor that it was intended to
introduce a force of atomic submarines
instanter —how was not clear—proves to
be grossly exaggerated. But this kind
of project would be premature, and
Cabinet seems to agree that it might
well be preceded by equipping of sur-
face-vessels in commission with arms of
the nuclear age.
There is no question about the effec-
tiveness of the nuclear-age submarine
as an anti-submarine weapon, but their
cost is such as to give any Government
without unlimited resources reason to
pause.
The Army plan repeats the emphasis
of the 1957 defence thesis on the need
for readily available, highly-trained and
mobile forces with modern weapons. The
nucleus of this is necessarily small, and
the Government will continue to con-
centrate on the maintenance of a brigade-
group, plus a Regular battalion with
the Strategic Reserve in Malaya. This
brigade is a very fine one, intensively
trained and experienced.
This part of the plan is the most
effective. In view of the vast increase
in the votes necessary for maintenance
and changing armament of a large,
widely-scattered force —which absorbs 80
per cent, of the whole Army finance—-
the provision of an effective national
reserve is a far harder problem.
The realities of the situation have
condemned the National Training
Scheme to death after it has provided
a basic pool of men who at least know
how to obey a command and board a
vehicle. One of the reasons for the
throwing overboard of the scheme is that
it absorbs the services of the best part
of another brigade-group of regulars for
'training and administrative duties.
The N.T. scheme will end in June
next.
The administration has been changed
in essence by giving the Defence Depart-
ment added powers of co-ordination and
by integrations where possible of
agencies common to all three services,
making the defence policy and adminis-
tration more closely knit.
One at a Time
Communists have been achieving many
small successes in the collective-bargain-
ing process with threats of strikes and
strikes against individual firms. They
have been most active in the metal
trades, and the spearhead has been the
Amalgamated Engineering Union, which
is the second-largest in Australia, and
Communist-dominated.
Their latest success was in Victoria
at the expense of Australian Consoli-
dated Industries, Ltd., against which a
strike was called until the company
agreed to pay a 255. margin at least,
unless the Arbitration Commission
granted a higher margin. The strike
threatened Melbourne’s milk-supply,
putting strong consumer-pressure on the
company.
The Communists have two aims. The
first, and lesser, is to control unions
which can bluff and thwart employers ;
and the second, more important, objec-
tive is to bring the arbitration system
into disrepute on the claim that nothing
more can be expected from arbitration
and direct action is better and surer.
There have been almost a hundred
small unpublicised strikes inspired by
the Communists recently, and the higher
proportion of them have been successful.
Individual firms have had to agree to
some extent to union claims made out-
side the court, and where companies
have resisted and shown an ability to
win out, the strikes have been called off.
The Reds are not anxious for a
renewal of their post-war efforts at
nation-wide strikes which brought them
into public contempt and their union
dupes into financial misery.
The Aged and Firm
[From “Collins Street”]
Three facts strike you on revisiting
the Victorian Legislative Council, none
of them inspiriting.
The first is the great age of the mem-
bers, so apparent in their appearance,
actions and, alas, thinking. They look
almost as old as the' Victorian R.S.L.
executive, now taking an overwhelming
beating on the Anzac Day issue ; and
the one youthful member looks like a
living anachronism. The Liberals are
the youngest group ; the Country party
by far the oldest.
The second is that its character has
not changed one iota down the decades.
The elderly gentlemen are still prepared
to throw-out great social reforms for
no reason other than that they change
the existing order, as they did with the
off-course tote bill the night I looked
them over sorrowfully again last week.
They are still, as in the days of the late
Albert Dunstan when he was having
trouble with them, Waiting For Some-
thing To Turn Down.
The third is that the standard of debate
is as piffling as it was 40 years ago when
their prototypes used this Parliamentary
Chamber to denounce the Railways
Commissioners as agents of Satan be-
cause they proposed to run Sunday-
morning trains to the beaches and similar
narky-malarkey.
The best speech on the bill in either
House was made by John Galbally,
leader of the Labor Opposition, pro-
viding the anomaly of an honest speech,
followed by a vote with the rest of the
Labor party and the Country party
which defeated the bill.
Galbally, who is a leading barrister,
seems to be wasting his political life
in the hole-and-corner game Labor plays
in the Victorian Parliament ; at times
he reveals an outlook so modern he
seems ideally suited to be a Liberal
Premier.
On this bill he was the only M.P.
to get down to the issue. He is an R.C.,
and he said, in effect, that since the
Catholics and Anglicans favored the bill,
or weren’t against it at least, it was
clear it had been introduced in its
limited form (providing for credit-betting
only, and no cash) to please the minority
section of the Cabinet.
It is admitted in the Parliamentary
lobbies that religious pressure is respon-
sible for the timidity in the scope of the
bill, and Galbally very properly asked
if narrow religious views should be per-
mitted to weight more than the recom-
mendation of the royal commissioner,
or, of course, the undenied success of the
off-course tote in N.Z.
Galbally’s reason for his party's
decision to vote against the bill—that
it did not provide for the small, five-bob
bettor—is transparently false ; the bill
did offer some measure of reform, but
the chance to nark the Government was
too good to miss, despite the evidence
of community benefits.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
Tn Suva (Fiji): “Passengers must not
eat peanuts in. the bus.” —“N.S.’’
+t* *> *>
“Croid”: Some years ago, visiting
Brisbane, I was pleasantly surprised
when entering the dining-room of my
hotel to be introduced to my table-mates
by the head-waiter. This habit is now
creeping into New South Wales
hostelries —There is no lonelier person
than a guest on his own in a hotel.
A A A
> r >
“Archaean”: The record for any Aus-
tralian radio - series is held by “Yes,
What?” The series of nearly a thousand
12-minute schooldays was made in an
Adelaide commercial station just before
War 11. Following this run, the record-
ings went to each State capital in turn
and are now back in Adelaide for a
second run. But no fortune has come
to the four men who made the record-
ings. For each instalment Rex
(“Wacka”) Dawe received 10s. for the
script and another ss. for appearing in
it; the three actors received only ss.
a show.
“Dune”: I don’t know if it was in-
spired by The Bulletin’s Wine
Issue or whether it is the approach-
ing Christmas season, but my teen-
age grandson came to me with a
glass of sparkling burgundy to taste.
I’m no conoisseur, but this was pretty
awful stuff and I said so. “Pity,” he
remarked; “I thought I’d landed on
something pretty good. I filled the
syphon with a bottle of your still bur-
gundy and gave it a charge of gas. If
it had been o.k. I was going to try out
a bottle of sauterne and turn it into
champagne.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Fairf”: At the annual exhibition of
work done by adult night-classes at
“Well try and spin-out this heach-improvement job , Harry”
Fairfield (Sydney) High School, the day-
boys also did a spot of exhibiting on
their own account. The young-’uns’
efforts, consisting of some creditable
samples of signwriting on cardboard,
were placed at strategic positions. One,
over the staff-room door, declared:
“They Don’t Teach Us Much, But They
Teach Us All They Know.” Another
offered the sage advice, too often, I’m
afraid, adopted by inefficient teachers:
“If You Can’t Convince ’Em, Confuse
’Em.” But the one that really took my
fancy was a joke on themselves: “Use
Your Head —It’s The Little Things That
Count.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Joel”: Park-seats were being painted.
After watching a “Wet Paint” sign being
fastened to the job one woman said, “Can
I sit down now?” Two lasses, when
warned about the notice on their seat,
said, “We think it’s dry enough.” A
70-year-old spark, when asked to move
to another spot, said he wanted to watch
the lunch-hour girls. Another watcher
asked why the job couldn’t be done at
night. Is all this a tribute to the “dry-
in-a-few-minutes” of the advertisers, or
just a frenzy which wet paint induces in
people?
❖ ❖ *
“C.A.A.”: TV, which was believed
(incorrectly, as it turned out) to be
adversely affecting borrowings from Vic-
torian public libraries, is doing the
library movement a service, in a left-
handed sort of way. A picture-theatre
in the Melbourne residential suburb of
Caulfield is to be taken over as a
municipal library, and it isn’t the last
cinema expected to be adapted to this
purpose.
A A A
V V
“Nurse”: When is a flu not a flu?
Our household has been laid low for
a week. Now the old lady has recovered
from her “bronchitis,” the regular visitor
has died from his “nervous complaint,”
my husband is over his “bad cough,”
and even my “cold” is better.
GIFTS FOR VISITORS
“Peter Ustinov, the playwright, has been
acting in Australia, J. B. Priestley has been
conferring and talking, Paul Brickhill is return-
ing to write about migrants, William Saroyan
is here to write a book.”
/ don’t want to be beastly,
But when he goes back, will Mr. Priest-
ley
Take some well-known Australian attri-
bute
Not yet shot by Nevil Shute ?
Will Mr. Ustinov
Give our colloquialisms a dusting-off ?
Will Mr. Brickhill go dam-busting of
The dams where so much talent’s rust-
ing off?
Will Mr. Saroyan
Find a cage to put the Wild Colonial
Boy in,
Something exotic, curious, eerie,
Not yet contrived by Clune or Cleary ?
They’re welcome to any deadwood that
can be found,
As the forest-rangers say, lying on the
ground,
So long as. they pack it up and take it
away
And leave us here with something new
to say.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


T ately visiting Spain, my mate spotted
' a compatriot of the gentler sex
in a women’s swimming-pool and called
her over to the low wall for a yarn,
he* being outside and fully clothed, the
lady in her swimsuit. When the female
dragon who guards those places saw
them, she came over and, discovering
by inquisition that they were not
married, and not engaged to be married,
bawled them out for talking while
inappropriately dressed! —“Tom Trout.”
❖ * ❖
“E. & 0.E.”: Sorry to seem a nark,
“North Esk” (B. 18/11/’59), but the
proposed bridge over the Tamar River
in Tasmania won’t be the second one,
because there has never yet been any
bridge over that river. True, there are
three bridges in Launceston, but that at
the Gorge crosses the South Esk where
it runs into the Tamar, and the Charles
Street and Victoria bridges are both
over the North Esk.
♦£«■ ♦♦♦
“Narumee”: The headline in the
London “Times” ran “Airliner’s T/res
Explode.” “Auntie” still remains “U”
over her glamour, her honour, and her
colour; she does not permit nite to
fall on her, nor does she write checks
for contributors ; she continues to refer
to those actors, actresses and authors
who receive the benefit of her criticism
with a politply-prefixed “Mr.” or “Miss”;
she is never disheveled, and she never
undertakes an arduous program. But
wherever tyres were in the news,
“Auntie” was passing Ys!
* >:♦
“Ecole”: Since the Queensland
Government’s alteration of electoral
boundaries the Government Printer has
been so busy getting out new electoral
rolls that this year’s third-term school-
papers, due to appear in October, were
still in the binders’ hands in the second
week of November.
♦J* ♦> ♦♦♦
“5 G.R.”: Always an obstinate man,
I had determined to curb my son’s use
of my car, but the other night when
he turned 21 so many fine young men
and women turned-up, and were so
courteous, so much better educated than
us of my generation, that I felt proud.
“Yes,” I said to my son, “you may take
Elaine home in my car.” He was back
within half-an-hour after an eight-mile
drive. How times have changed!
❖ ♦>
“J.N.H.”: The “Memoirs of a Pioneer
Pressman” remind me of a story
of my father’s, Dr. J. P. Hannan, who
lasted two weeks as one of Billy Hughes’s
“Old beatniks, Id say!”
innumerable secretaries. After an over-
night train-trip (which my father spent
working a typewriter swaying on his
knees) Billy made some remark to a man
waiting on the platform as they left the
train. The man looked him up and
down and asked, “Who are you?” Billy
said, “You know that chap who knocks
on the wheels of the carriages with a
hammer?” “Yes.” “Well,” said Billy,
“I’m the cove who listens for him.”
* *
“Villefair”: It seems completely
beyond the moulders of shop-window
glamor-girls to produce a face of even
passable attraction. But the figures—
ah-ah! Such artistry, such perfect re-
production of the female form ... at
least, so I always thought, until a care-
less window-dresser left his semi-draped
charge to blush in her exposure. Brother,
we’ve been hoodwinked. Those damsels’
vital statistics are the results of low
cunning, not artistry. The gowns dis-
played are bulged to perfection at the
right places by working thumbscrews set
between the dissected portions of
anatomy.
»*«
“An Chuidh”: For many years the
black-swan of Westralia’s flag swam
away from the flagstaff ; recently, when
they came to matriculate the swan as
the arms of the State, they were forced
ta turn the swan about, as the authorities
alleged that heraldic animals, etc.,
always face either the front or the left,
i.e., the staff. Rather sorry that the
Westralian Government changed ; their
swan had a precedent in the armorial
bearings of the University of Man-
chester, which has a serpent facing away
—to the right. Many other charges
are reversed, in particular the lymphad
or galley borne by many Highlanders
as their arms. The arms of the Lord-
ship of Lome has the lymphad sailing
to the sinister or right. Most of the
lymphads borne by Campbells sail the
opposite way—but then Campbells and
MacDonells have seldom seen eye-to-
eye. So here’s hoping that the Westra-
lian Government goes back to the old
swan swimming as he swam for so many
years, away from the flagstaff.
A. A. +*<.
“8.1. K.”: The potent ginger-beer (B.
4/11/ ’59) took me back to Bostall Heath
near Woolwich, where about 1500 Aus-
tralians in October, 1915, awaited return
to their units in Egypt. I was Sergeant
of the Guard, and apart from some 60
men in clink had two sergeants and
three corporals in the guardhouse. One
of the corporals, a thickset, quiet chap,
played the banjo and helped to pass
the time with his songs and music. I
asked him how he got 90 days, and
he told me he had gone to the nearest
pub in Plumbstead ; his mate had called
for whisky—“And you know, Sarge, I
saw some bottles at the back of the
counter with ‘Burton Ale’ on them, and
thought it was the old hop-beer we used
to buy in Sydney at 3d. a bottle. After
FERRIES AT NEWCASTLE
The ferries to Stockton seem like a man
and wife
Who don’t get along together any more :
They move apart in the household of
the harbor,
As though from room to room from
shore to shore,
Out of each other’s way . . .
Married too long to separate, and so,
When siltage snares, going as partners
will,
Unfussed, from habit, to give each other
aid.
One wonders if, having but one old
berth,
They sleep together still.
N.S.W.
IAN HEALY.


six bottles I went a bit haywire.”
Burton Ale was an old brown beer with
a kick like a mule, so it was no wonder
he knocked - down a picquet of one
n.c.o. and four men, and it took four
Woolwich bobbies to put him in clink.
❖ *X* *t*
“Basia”: On a chilly, late - winter
day I saw several youngsters, eight or
nine years of age, slouching in Indian-
file along the wide, almost -deserted
street in front of the Brandenburg Gate,
near the border of East and West Berlin.
Their clothes were ragged, and old shoes
were bound to their feet by strips of
cloth. The tallest lad, bringing up the
rear, was carrying a long pole with a
length of string attached. At a shout
"If it's Carol I'll speak to her, but if it's any other sheila I'm not at home."
from him, the other boys crouched in
the gutter, burying their faces in their
hands, while he paraded up and down,
waving his stick. In response to a
question from an elderly bystander, they
said that they lived in Stalinallee (the
main street of Communist Berlin). “And
what are you playing?” asked the old
man. “Oh,” said the big boy, in a
matter-of-fact manner, “we’re playing
Siberia.”
*** *** +**
“Doric”: “Don’t worry about leaving
your cat —they don’t fret like dogs,”
people used to say, but I put mine in a
boarding-cattery during my holidays,
and he was thin and dejected when I
called for him. He had refused to eat.
I had to have him treated by a vet.,
who said there was nothing physically
wrong—it was just a case of fretting for
his owner.
“R.F.F.G.”: Australians of Welsh
origin may be interested to know of
the preparation of a Welsh National
Book of Remembrance, containing the
names of those men or women of Welsh
birth or parentage or serving in the
regiments of Wales who gave their lives
in War 11. A volume of those who lost
their lives in War I already exists and
is housed in Cardiff. A committee has
been formed for the War II compilation,
of which Major V. D. H. Elkington
(secretary for Wales of the British
Legion) is hon.-sec. Further particulars
can be obtained from him at British
Legion House, 23 St. Andrew’s Crescent,
Cardiff, Glamorgan, South Wales. An
appeal launched for funds for this pro-
ject closes on March 31, 1960, and to
date more than half the target-figure
has been contributed by the regiments
of Wales, municipal authorities and
individuals.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Nes”: The 80-year-old firm of
Edwards and Lamb taken over by Rock-
man’s Showrooms, Ltd., one of the
Korman group of companies, is the
sixth" major departmental store in Bris-
bane to have changed hands since
1955 Finney Isles by David Jones’;
McWhirter’s by Myer’s ; Pike Bros, by
Leviathan; Overells by Waltons-
Sears ; and Allan and Stark by Myer’s.
John Lamb’s father began the firm, of
which Edwards was a partner for a few'
years. Edwards and Lamb for many
years adhered to the policy that goods
advertised themselves by their quality.
“We never advertise,” was their boast.
Even the writing-pads made this state-
ment. The firm is situated at “The
Smarter End of Queen Street,” as Allan
and Stark, Ltd., holding the policy that
advertising does pay, has dubbed it.
Advertise or not, smart or dowdy, the
purple people-eaters gobble them all up.
“Maitri”: We'd been invited to a
friend’s house to hear songs composed
by a young composer of “modern” ten-
dencies. The first was very long, and
with such ear-provoking harmonies that
we began to long for the homely, old-
fashioned stuff of dear Bartok and
Hindemith. When at last the performers
stopped, we voiced (as politely as pos-
sible, seeing that the composer was
present) the one sentiment we honestly
could: “Very remarkable!” But there’d
been a bit of a contretemps. The singer
had been ploughing through the second
song in the cycle, while the pianist had
been laboring at the first.
«j«
“Wusslean”: When I wouldn’t take
out another two-bob-a-week policy, the
new insurance-collector smiled ruefully
and confided: “Y’ know, it’s hard to
write new business in a nice, middle-
class suburb like this. Collecting’s easy,
but they’re ultra-cautious about new
commitments. At my last district”
(mentioning an inner industrial suburb)
“it was just the reverse: always willing
to lay out a few more bob, but unless
you were on the doorstep on pay-night,
you hadn’t a hope of collecting. Still,
that was better than Mortgage Hill” (his
name for an ighklars new area); “if you
were lucky enough to strike someone at
home, they lost interest in insurance as
soon as they heard they couldn’t get
it on credit.”
❖ ♦> »>
“M.J.R.”: As to baby-teeth betraying
children sent too early to school (B.
11/11/’59), our son, aged seven, who
will be in Grade 3 next year, has shown
no sign of losing his baby-teeth, whereas
practically every other child in his class
has his second-teeth. I am 30 years of
age and still have one baby - tooth.
Another was extracted when I was 21,
to allow the second-tooth to erupt. Is
this a record?
A A A
“Harbel”: Since, after many years of
mysterious anonymity, the identity was
established of the man whose copperplate
Eternity has decorated a thousand pave-
ments, there has been little of interest
in Sydney’s footpath chalkings. Here and
there a crudely-printed message urges
Repent or offers the choice God or Sin ?
A yellow-painted stencilling may order
the passer-by to Ban the A.-Bomb, a
somewhat outdated slogan draws atten-
tion to the fact that the painter backed
the wrong horse with his Put the Libs
Last, or, with unwonted honesty, a
Comrade may flagrantly show his hand:
Vote Communists into Jobs. Occasionally
the footpath-starer can still be surprised:
More Female Migrants for Lonely
Bachelors —that “more” has me thinking.
Do I detect in it the approval of a
satisfied client petitioning an encore?


Keep ’em moving
By J. P. CARROLL
On any railway system
the guiding principle
of running trains is:
Keep them moving.
Again, on any railway there is
always the officer who seizes
upon the principle and con- ■
verts it into a religion.
Such a man was old Harry
Turner, the stationmaster at
Banderong, on the single-line
spur.
Even a parcel lying idle in
the office was a source of
worry to him. He could never
be content till the package was
bunged into the guard’s-van
of the first passing train—any
train at all. Where the train
or parcel was destined for was
beside the point as long as
the thing disappeared from
his station.
Of late Harry was getting
worse. Any movable object
whatsoever around the station
was gradually coming into his
category of that which had to
be kept moving. The line-
repairers now guarded their
picks and shovels: old Harry
seemed to have a tag, marked
Surplus Equipment, ever
ready to tie on a grounded
tool and then hurl it into the
nearest truck.
Even the Traffic Inspector
got caught-up in Harry’s
crusade when 'he made the
mistake of backing-out of the
carriage to inspect Banderong.
He found himself suddenly
projected forward into the
compartment and heard the
door slam and Harry yelling
“Right away!” to the guard.
To Harry the T.I. was only
so much superfluous baggage
and thus the b— had to be
kept moving.
However, Harry’s anathema
was trains. He could never
stand having one at the
station. To him, the only
purpose of the arrival-signal
was a prelude to getting a train
past the departure-signal as
quick as possible.
Consequently the interval
between a train coming and
going was a period of intense
activity at Banderong, especi-
ally if the train had to shunt
there. In such cases Harry
whistled-up an old but sturdy
horse which, with a single
trace-chain attached to its
collar, he used to horse-shunt
the trucks out of the shed-
road before the train arrived.
As soon as the train arrived
Harry would “hook-off” the
engine and smartly have the
“horse-shunted” trucks placed
on the train before the guard
had time to walk down from
the vah.
“What’s doing?” the guard
would say.
“Nothing,” Harry would
answer, at the same time sig-
nalling the driver to go ahead
and, when the van drew level
with where they stood, Harry
all but threw the guard into
his van and then agitatedly
signalled “Right away” to the
driver; and deliberately
ignored the indignant abuse of
the guard pounding his fist
on the van windowsill as the
train disappeared around the
bend into the next section of
the line.
Although Banderong, being
halfway between the ter-
minal and the junction, was
likely for crossing trains,
Harry, up to date, somehow
had luck on his side.
The daily train from the
junction left at 8.30 a.m., and
even though another train left
the junction at the same time,
a down-grade from the ter-
minal usually got that train
past Banderong to cross the
junction train at Wanderii, the
next station, where the crews
would change-over.
But then there was a mutual
reluctance on the part of both
crews to take their trains any
further than was absolutely
necessary.
The terminal crew reckoned
that Banderong was a fair thing
for a cross. The junction crew
held it reasonable that
Wanderii was the right place.
Needless to say old Harry
sided with the junction crew,
and made a daily vow that
trains would never cross at his
station.
So this morning Harry could
see a very delicate situation.
Train Control had rung-up to
say that the terminal crew
had signed-on an hour earlier.
As the time was approaching
11.30 a.m. this meant that the
terminal crew would be
demanding the regulation
20 - minute meal - break at
Banderong.
“A great pity,” sighed Train
Control. “I wonder if you
could persuade them to go on
to Wanderii? Even if they
have their meal at yours they’ll
still have the bare running-
time to go to Wanderii. But
I’d rather they kept going now
and had their meal there.”
This was right up Harry’s
alley. He certainly wanted
no train hanging round Ban-
derong for 20 minutes. Most
decidedly he would Keep ’em
Moving.
Along came the terminal
train. Old Crusty Gunn, the
driver, saw the arrival- and
departure-signal -showing “All
clear,” and Harry standing on
the platform ready to exchange
the staff. Nevertheless Crusty
applied the brake.
“You gotta keep going,”
shouted Harry.
“Go and tell Control we’re
wanting a feed,” Crusty
answered casually.
“He knows that. But he
says you still gotta go.” Harry
tried to generate an atmos-
phere of urgency.
But Crusty couldn’t be more
composed.
“Never mind what he says.
Tell him what I say.”
Harry’s eyes stared battle.
He wouldn’t be beaten yet.
He stamped into the office,
slammed the door and came
out again in two minutes.
“Control still says you gotta
go,” Harry stated emphatically.
“Now go and talk to Con-
trol on the telephone. Do
you think I’m a mug? You
went nowhere near the phone,”
Crusty countered.
This, of course, was the
truth, but Harry was deter-
mined to bluff it out.
“All right! You can come
in with me and I’ll ring him
again.”
Harry put on a cocksure
air.
As old Crusty was already
dismounting the footplate to
do just that very thing, Harry’s
invitation somehow sounded a
bit flat.
With Crusty leaning against
the wall-phone, Harry spoke
in, listened, and repeated very
loudly.
“You say the terminal train
has definitely got to go on,
has he? Good!” Harry looked
triumphantly at Crusty.
After filling his pipe and
staring fixedly at Harry for a
moment Crusty’s voice began
in a low growl then rose
ferociously.
“Now I suppose you think
a man’s a bloody fool.” Crusty
(Continued on page 58)


POLITICAL POINTS
Queanbeyan is trying to turn O'Dea
into O’Night.
• •
The Doc.’s farewell reference to
Menzies’s trip to Indonesia couldn’t have
been more diplomatic and non-party if
he’d been Chief Justice of N. S. Wales!
• •
In a vote on the Divorce Bill the
Senate showed that it was not prepared
to be merely a rubber-stamp for the
House of Representatives. In this respect
it was not so much the passing of
Senator Wright’s amendment to clause
21 ( b ), to which it agreed by 27 votes
to 25, as the rejection the following day
of a Government amendment designed
to restore the clause to its original form.
On the second occasion only 18 members
voted for the Government amendment.
Senator Wright’s amendment will
probably mean a slight reshuffling of
members’ vacation plans. The House
of Representatives adjourned on Friday
according to schedule, after the customary
exchanges of back-slapping and Christ-
mas good-fellowship. But even as they
bade each other good-bye it was bruited
around that they’d be meeting again on
Thursday to discuss the Senate’s amend-
ment, which the Government is now
expected to accept.
• •
Despite the Senate’s assertion of inde-
pendence, the Government has no cause
to be dissatisfied —the Upper House
proved amenable enough to pass 15 bills
in 160 minutes, many of them without
debate. However, that was not for
Government convenience ; the Senators
were unanimous in a desire to get away
for Christmas, and, like the Divorce
Bill, that was a non-party matter.
• •
Panamanian rioters have been demon-
strating violently against the United
States continuing to hold the Canal
zone. On its show of indignation against
the British in the parallel case of Suez,
the U.S. State Department ought to be
leading them.
• •
Evidence is accumulating that Khrush-
chev is delaying arrangements for the
summit-conference, with the U.S. Presi-
dential elections in mind. He has
preferred the end of March to February
to visit France, and Eisenhower’s visit
to Moscow must come after that. Since
the Republican convention to choose a
candidate sits in Chicago, July 25-29, and
there are busy preliminaries for the
President, the summit-meeting would
have to take place before the middle of
June or wait till after the election. The
Western Powers’ conference meets in
Paris on December 19 and is expected
to propose that the summit-meeting be
in April. On present showing, Khrush-
chev doesn’t seem likely to co-operate.
• •
John Bampton has been chosen as
Liberal candidate for the Cook’s River
by-election on Saturday week. He’ll
oppose T. J. Cahill, son of the late
Premier, who won the A.L.P. pre-
selection. W. J. Buckley (Communist)
is also going along for the run.
• •
Nehru is getting little political support
for his fence-sitting over the northern-
border dispute. The head of the Right-
wingers’ party says the P.M.’s offer to
withdraw Indian troops from menaced
territory when the Chinese have with-
drawn, “puts a premium on aggression.”
The Praja Left-wing Socialists feel that
his “eagerness to negotiate is weakening
our case.” The only people who seem
fully satisfied are the Red Chinese, who
apparently feel that they already own
India, judging by their action in seizing
and beating-up an American marine in
the heart of Bombay.
• •
N.S.W. Housing Commission’s biggest
project—a 15-story block of 430 flats —
is being built in Devonshire Street,
Surry Hills. Its foundation-stone was
laid on Friday by the Governor, Sir Eric
Woodward, and it is to bear the name
of his predecessor, John Northcott.
• •
After Speaker Maher had “named” a
Labor M.L.A. recently, he was appar-
ently criticised in the Labor caucus for
taking such action against a member
of the party. Later, in answer to a
question in the House, the Speaker said:
As far as my political loyalty and
principles are concerned I am fully subject
to the control of the party to which I
belong. As far as my administration of
this House is concerned and my control
of the proceedings of this House, I am
subject only to this House, whose servant
I am.
That is a point often forgotten by some
of Maher’s Labor predecessors in the
Chair.
• •
Mikoyan’s attempts during his visit
to a Soviet Exhibition last week to sug-
gest that there was so little difference
between Communism and Mexican
socialist revolutionaryism did not go
down well in Mexico City. One car-
toonist voiced the general opinion with
a jeer: “Yes, we had a revolution luce
the Russians, but where is our Siberia?”
“And don’t forget, if any of you fail to vote for us at the next election
we’ll fine you a couple of quid.”


The South Australian Government has
turned-down a proposal for a rise in Par-
liamentary salaries, partly because the
State has had a very dry year. Very
unenterprising, these S.A. legislators.
Faced with the same problem the Sydney
blokes would have used it as an argu-
ment for an extra-big rise on the score
of Drought Relief.
• •
The New England New State Move-
ment has reached the stage of a petition
to the N. S. Wales Government. The
petition, bearing the signatures of 32,000
electors of northern and central N. S.
Wales, was presented to the Speaker of
the Assembly by Col. Bruxner, former
leader of the N. S. Wales Country party,
last week. It claimed that the district
was a complete social and political unit,
capable of performing all the functions
of a State and it asked Parliament to
pass legislation to enable the people of
New England to form a Constitution
and a State Government and to seek
admission to the Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia as a State.
The Speaker accepted the petition;
and there the matter apparently rests.
• • •
If, as reported, Professor Armand
Bland retires from the chairmanship of
the Federal Public Accounts Committee
it will be a sad blow. The public owes
the Prof, and his team of financial fact-
finders a vote of thanks for the eagle-eye
they have kept on Government expendi-
ture. In report after report, the com-
mittee has exposed extravagance, care-
lessness and, in some cases, complete
ignorance of accounting-procedures in
various Commonwealth departments.
And the departments' haven’t been taking
the criticism lightly, either ; this is one
committee which has got results. The
big danger is that if Bland retires it will
be very hard to find a competent
successor.
• •
A year ago the Victorian Cabinet
urged railwaymen to submit their claims
(chiefly for service-pay) to arbitration,
with the come-on assurance that the
claims “may not be opposed.” The
claims were opposed, and successfully.
The commissioner rejected them, and
the railwaymen have now begun a half-
hearted work-to-regulations strike, chiefly
aimed at the goods-section, the railways’
best earner.
Cabinet’s action smacks of two-timing.
On the other hand it is no argument to
say that railwaymen are entitled to their
service-claims just because tramway men
get them. Railwaymen have many
privileges (including superannuation) that
tramwaymen don’t have.
If the regulation-strike extends to
passenger-services, Victorians will be
wishing a plague on Unity House and
Parliament House.
• •
Australia’s representative on the U.N.
Trusteeship Council has denied a charge
by Indonesia that there is “an adminis-
trative union” between Dutch New
Guinea and the Australian trust terri-
tory of New Guinea. He said the only
administrative union was between the
Australian trust territory and Papua.
Replying to Dr. Sastroamidjojo’s asser-
tion that Dutch New Guinea was “part
of a province of Indonesia,” he said chat
Australia was well-disposed towards In-
donesia but had no doubts about Dutch
sovereignty over West New Guinea.
In recent years there have been con-
sultations between the administrators of
the Dutch and Australian sections of
New Guinea on problems common to
the whole island. It is advisable that
these should continue, especially since
both countries aim at preparing the
natives for eventual self-government.
That is something that doesn’t figure in
Indonesian plans for West New Guinea.
• •
Pakistan has won its war with the
Oxford Dictionary. The O.U.P. has
agreed to redefine “Pakistan,” making
it clear that it is not “part of India.”
Slips containing the alteration will be
pasted in all copies of the dictionary
and Pakistan will lift the ban on its sale.
• •
F. P. Walsh, president of the New
Zealand Federation of Labor, admitted
in the N.Z. Supreme Court last week
that his real name was Patrick Tuohy
and that for three years he was a mem-
ber of the N.Z. Communist party. He
said he had left the party in 1923 because
it had tried to dictate the policy of his
union the Seamen’s Union. Walsh-
Tuohy was being cross-examined in a
libel case in which he, the vice-president
of the federation and six members of the
Wellington Trades Council, are being
sued by a trade-union secretary. What-
ever his previous political convictions,
Walsh has been a tower of common-
sense in N.Z. Labor politics over the
past 20 years.
• •
Labor Opposition walked-out of the
Victorian Assembly when the Govern-
ment refused to grant a week’s adjourn-
ment on a bill to spend £lOO,OOO reclaim-
ing about 800 acres of salt-affected
Gippsland land in the Macalister irriga-
tion-district ; the land is affected because
of irrigation, and the Government,
adopting a new principle, proposes to
pay the pre-irrigation price for it.
Labor wanted a week to consider the
new system of recompense, which would
mean paying more than the current
market-price for the land. In effect the
proposal is an acceptance by. the State
of the responsibility for the land becom-
ing salt-affected through irrigation.
• • .
It was suggested here (B. 11/11/ ’59)
that Queanbeyan could find a way out
of its shopping difficulties by asking
Canberra to take it into protective
custody. Last week Senator Maher (Q.)
suggested that as Queanbeyan was
‘'already an important suburb of Can-
berra” it might be wise to approach the
N. S. Wales Government with a view to
having the town ceded to the A.C.T. He
urged the holding of a referendum to
allow the people of Queanbeyan to ex-
press their views.
• •
According to British sources, Japanese
exporters are selling textiles to Australia
on secret discounts. Some months ago
Japanese authorities undertook to check
prices before goods were sent, and did
so, but the exporters now are reported to
be invoicing goods at a price which is
checked, but actually receiving less from
the importer. At the request of the
Trade Department, the Victorian Cham-
ber of Manufactures is inquiring into
the report.
• • <
Not so long ago the “all Red” route
to London meant that all ports of call
were British territory, colored red in
the school-atlas. Political and geo-
graphical changes are underlined by
statements that we may get a “Red”
air-route to London, meaning one which
will include stops at Peking, Tashkent
and Moscow. Travellers may be in-
terested to observe whether the Chinese
“Red” varies in tone from the Russian
“Red” as they look down from the
stratosphere on Eurasia.
• •
“Stromlo”: Political pundits have
argued for years about the effect
of a party’s platform on the
unattached voter although there can
be little doubt about what Labor’s
main “plank” has done to its Federal
fortunes. The platform of the Liberal
party was hammered out at the Can-
berra conference 15 years ago, and has
survived with little change. It is now
being re-examined in the belief that
changed and better national circum-
stances have made many of its sections
outdated and unnecessary. A new draft
may be available soon for discussion by
the party’s leaders.
• •
“Ex-ACT”: Another injustice to the
citizens of Canberra! Their £2-million
lakes will have a couple of bridges,
which won’t be high enough to clear
the masts of any craft larger than Moths
or V.J.s. Local member Jim Fraser
remarked bitterly the other day that the
trend in yachting in Sydney was towards
Finn dinghies and Flying Dutchmen,
neither of which could squeeze under
the new bridges. He admitted that any
raising of bridge-heights would be costly,
“hardly justified for the purposes of
enjoyment of one form of sport, but
added that he had given the facts to
the Minister for the Interior, with a
suggestion that it might be possible to
“increase the proposed hump in Com-
monwealth Bridge.” But wouldn t that
also increase the size of the hump on
the back of the taxpayer?


Personal
ITEMS
“0.W.W.”: Notching 90 a couple of
weeks back, Professor Arnold Wall,
of Christchurch (N.Z.), is running a
strong third to Dame Mary Gilmore
and Will H. Ogilvie as The
Bulletin’s oldest living poet. Leo
Fanning, veteran N.Z. journalist and one
of Wall’s first students at Canterbury
University in 1899, celebrated the anni-
versary by contributing some verses in
honor of the Professor to the Wellington
“Evening Post.”
• •
Popular new member of the board of
directors of the Western Queensland
Pastoral Co., Ltd., A. C. Little, of
Barford, Charleville (Q.), has been con-
nected with the land since he started
jackerooing as a 15-year-old. Now he
runs quality sheep and cattle at Barford,
but he came up the hard way —and, in
the course of a varied career, once
groomed horses for Cobb and Co. in
order to keep the dingo from the door.
• •
Harold Glowrey, one of the stormy-
petrels of the Victorian Parliament as
long ago as the ’twenties, continues into
public life into the ’sixties; the Vic-
torian Cabinet has reappointed him
chairman of the Victorian Grain
Elevators Board until March, 1961.
He represented Ouyen from 1927 until
his defeat for the Assembly seat' in 1932
by the late Lou Bussau, and in his
lively years in Parliament he helped to
form a small splinter-party, the Country
Progressives, with Artful Albert Dunstan.
Dunstan retained his seat in the
depression and he became a long-reign-
ing Premier, but Glowrey lost his. He
had been a genuine crusader for the
then-neglected Mallee, and when he was
ousted his indignant supporters held an
angry but futile public meeting to which
electors came from more than 100 miles.
Dunstan did not forget him, however,
and in 1940 he appointed him chairman
of the comparatively new Elevators
Board. Occasional outbursts about his
chairmanship have come from a few
areas in the Victorian countryside in
recent years, but Harold Glowrey sits
pat on the board’s record of taking the
wheatgrowers’ harvest at the quickest
rate in the world, and at the lowest cost.
• •
“Mary B.”: Contributor to The
Bulletin since his mid-teens, and to
numerous other Australian and New
Zealand publications as well, Sergeant
O. W. Wadham has just completed 18
years in the N.Z. Army. At present
stationed at Linton Camp, near Palmer-
ston North, he served in the Middle
East in War 11.
“8.H.”: Here sketched, Ralph Ormsby
is as well known in New Guinea for
the size of his heart as for his physical
poundage. Magistrate at Madang, he
tips the beam at around 22|st.; hence,
on both counts, his popular monicker,
“Colossal Magistrate.” Member of an
old N.S.W. family—one of his forebears
was assistant-superintendent and magis-
trate of Norfolk Island in 1840 —he was
born in Sydney in 1913, joined the New
NEW GUINEA
Guinea Administration in his early
twenties, and was sent to learn the game
at the Upper Ramu patrol-post. Then,
after terms at Bulolo and Gasmata, he
spent six years on the Sepik River. He
was on leave in Australia when War II
broke-out, secured permission to join the
A.I.F. in the A.N.G.A.U. section, and,
with Lae, Bougainville and Nissan
among his service addresses, he ended
the war as major and district-officer in
the Sepik area. Afterwards he was
A.D.O. at Angoram, and later District
Commissioner at Bougainville. He be-
came a magistrate—strictly speaking, a
“District-officer Magistrate” (there’s a
difference!) —at Lae before he went to
his present post.
• •
Shigeru Yoshida, who arrived in Aus-
tralia last week, was one of Japan’s
leading diplomats before War II;
Ambassador in London until 1940, when
disagreement with his country’s military
policy compelled him to give-up his post.
After the surrender in August, 1945, he
became Foreign Minister in two succes-
sive Cabinets, and then, for a record-
term—from October, 1948, until Decem-
ber, 1954 —he was Prime Minister of
Japan. With this elder statesman —he is
now 83 —on the present visit, which in-
eludes New Zealand, are three other
distinguished Japanese politicians and a
counsellor from the Japanese Ministry
of Foreign Affairs.
• •
The recognised leading world
authority in an odd line for that sort
of status—it’s locusts and grasshoppers
-—is in Australia on a month's visit as
the guest of the C.5.1.R.0. He’s the
Russian-born scientist Dr. Boris Uvarov,
who settled in London after War 1 and
proceeded to organise the Anti-Locust
Research Centre, designed to deal with
the pests. His work transformed not
only some of the worst-affected British
regions but those in other countries
as well. His programme includes visits
to central-west N.S.W. and those parts
of S.A. and W.A. that are subject to
small plagues of grasshoppers
• •
Brisbane insurance-man Laurence J.
West has been on a brief trip to Can-
berra to receive one of Malaya’s highest
decorations. Visiting Malayan Prime
Minister Tengku Abdul Rahman pre-
sented him with the Alhi Mangku
Negara—which makes him “member of
the most distinguished order of defender
of the realm.” A former lieut.-colonel
in the Malayan Home Guard, West held
a commission in the Guard until his
retirement this year. The award was
for his services at the height of terrorist
activities and his help in planning
Malaya’s Territorial Army. Now 45,
West was born in India, served during
War II as a Gurkha-unit officer, was a
p.-0.-w., and worked for an oil-company
in India and Pakistan before going to
Malaya. He holds an 0.8. E.
• •
“A. 5.8.”: With the passing of Charles
Chauvel Australia lost a top-flight public-
relations man —he never let-up on
advertising this country during his whole
working-life. The major part of his
effort, of course, was, with the help of
his wife, making better and clearer
pictures to show here and abroad the
beauty and wide potential of Australia.
Charles Chauvel loved the bush and
knew the ways of bushmen. As one who
admired him, I’m glad to think the
magazine “Walkabout,” which he and
his wife produced, will perpetuate the
memory of one who so well deserves to
be remembered by all Australians.
• •
Perhaps the strongest candidate as
personality-man on the board of
governors of Adelaide’s Festival of Arts
is Ewen Mclntyre Waterman, one of
six brothers who have taken a forceful
hand in developing a tiny movie-chain
begun nearly 50 years ago by their
parents.
As soon as he could ride a bike
State-schoolboy Ewen Waterman (born
57 years ago at Semaphore, in S.A.)
took on a paper-round, and also, on
Saturday afternoons, collected tickets at
one of his dad’s movie-shows. When


a bit older he started learning wool-
classing. Now he sits on the boards of
some of Adelaide’s top concerns, is a
member of various voluntary organisa-
tions, and has become the Common-
wealth’s wool - adviser this last a
natural follow-up to his earlier posts
as Australian Wool Board rep. and later
chairman on the International Wool
Board Secretariat in London. He lives
at Blackwood Park, Strathalbyn, where
he has a model farm.
• •
Frank Menzies, who has been
appointed one of the three-men Consti-
tutional Advisory Commission for the
Central African Federation (the
Rhodesias and Nyasaland), is the elder
brother of the Prime Minister, like him
is deeply interested in Constitutional
issues, and served, in 1955, on the com-
mission which investigated whether the
capital of Southern Rhodesia should be
shifted from Salisbury.
When he was appointed Crown
Solicitor at 34 in Victoria he was the
youngest solicitor appointed to the . post;
he retired in 1954, at 63, to become a
director of the Capel Court (J. B. Were)
group of investment-companies.
Frank Menzies apparently has some
views different from the younger Bob
on national finance ; it was a heavy blow
to him when he lost, as Victoria’s advo-
cate, the challenge in the High Court
against uniform taxation in 1942, and
he thinks the States, since they have no
taxing - powers, now are politically
doomed:
• •
“Maitri”: The retirement of two mem-
bers of the Allen family from post-office
duties at Shellharbor (N.S.W.) has ended
a regime which lasted for 88 years. The
family started its connection with postal
affairs at the South Coast village in 1871,
NOWELL TAYLOR, president of the
Brisbane Junior Chamber of Commerce,
is on the staff of the Prudential
Assurance Co. and is a member of
Y.M.C.A.’s board of directors. He did
his War II part with the 2/32 Battalion.
when Walter Allen, snr., was appointed
Shellharbor’s first postmaster. In those
days the mail was delivered on horse-
back as far as Albion Park for a re-
muneration of £1 a week. Walter was
succeeded by his son —also Walter —who
in turn handed-over in 1882 to his half-
brother, Joseph Allen. Joseph occupied
the post for 50 years, which must be
something like a record for post-office
length of service. When Joseph retired
in 1932 the job passed to his daughter
Kathleen and, a few years ago, to her
sister Gwen, with Kathleen staying as
assistant. Both these ladies have just
retired.
• •
“R.L.”: Without the addition of his
famous sporting nom de guerre, few
would have linked the passing of Henry
Herbert Messenger in Gunnedah (N.S.W.)
Hospital, at 76, with “Dally” Messenger,
or “Dally M.” —in his day probably the best-
"known footballer in Australia, and certainly
one of the greatest the Rugby code has known.
“Dally M.” was much more than a first-rate
footballer. He had a genius of his own,
an individuality which made him so con-
spicuous that he achieved fame in a very
limited span of football-life. In the Rugby
code’s story he figures rightly as “The Master”
—a master craftsman as a winger—but “Dally”
himself never forgot to stress that the men
who got the ball to him in time for him
to score his spectacular tries were the ones
who should have had the praise. He was
that kind of team-mate. It was in Rugby
Union he first made his name, playing fo>r
Svdney’s Eastern Suburbs. He represented
N.S.W. in Union in 1906 and 1907. In the
latter year he represented against N.Z. in
Sydney, and signed-on as a professional in the
“breakaway” that led to the Rugby League’s
formation. On an England tour he played
in 33 matches, scored nine tries and kicked
64 goals, for a total of 154 points—the record
for many years afterwards, until Dave Brown’s
extraordinary 285 points for Australia in
England in 1933. “Dally” never forgot the
amateur code. He often went along to the
Eastern Suburbs Union ground in Woollahra
to demonstrate to the club’s youngsters, and
many a good player has owed much of his
success to the special “Dally M.” tricks picked-
up in those sessions.
• •
Melbourne University graduate Dr.
Ronald Rosanove has been appointed
president of the Association of Fellows
of the famous Mayo Clinic, Rochester
(U.S.A.). He is the son of the well-
known Melbourne manufacturer Matt
Rosanove, and he has been engaged in
post-graduate study in the U.S.
• •
Back in Brisbane after four years
abroad studying structural-engineering,
Murray Low graduated from Queens-
land University in 1953. After studying
multi-story structure-design under a
Shell scholarship at Cambridge he
worked for a firm of London consult-
ing-engineers. In the U.S. this year he
studied urban development. He now
goes to Sydney University as lecturer
in structural-engineering. He says that
Brisbane’s development is following the
American pattern, with residential areas
being pushed out to the fringes by
inner-city industrial expansion. He
predicts a reversal of the procedure,
with multi-story flats springing-up closer
to the heart of the city.
Herewith, Samuel Vercoe Belcher, of
Belcher-Built Equipment, Ltd., Pokeno,
near Auckland (N.Z.), who called in
at The Bulletin office after netting two
New Implement Awards at the Orange
Field Days. The winning implements
NEW ZEALAND
were a silage-fork and a hydraulic drain-
cleaner, both of which have excited
much interest among men on the land,
and there were certainly plenty of ex-
perts having a close-up of them at the
recent Orange Field Days a record
total attendance of 36,000! (Equipment
on the ground was, in all, valued at
£744,000, and total on-the-spot sales
were estimated as £233,000.)
Belcher, born at Raglan (N.Z.) in 1904,
started studying engineering as soon as
he left school; he joined with his brother
in producing farm - machinery at the
end of War 11. They now have two
factories in N.Z. and are thinking of
starting one in Australia.
Sam Belcher crossed the Tasman this
time for a twofold purpose. The N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture had a drain-
age-problem near Lismore which he
believed his draincleaner could tackle.
(It could —and created a lot of interest
in the D. of A. and also in the sugarcane-
districts.) At the same time he also
decided to enter his two exhibits for
the Orange Field Days. Now, after
looking round N.S.W. and Victoria, he
has just headed back to Maoriland.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Hobart, at 71, Sir Archibald Park, Lord
Mayor of Hobart since 1958, with previous
terms of office in 1950-52 and 1954-56. Born
at Wallsend (N.S.W.), he was M.H.A. for
Franklin (Tas.) from 1949 to 1955, and had
been president of the Tasmanian Road Trans-
port Association and of Rotary, master-
warden of the Marine Board, and State presi-
dent and life-member of the Ex-Naval Men’s
Association.
In Sydney, at 57, Hedley Nash, who was
recently elected Grand Master of the
Manchester Unity 1.0.0. F. in N.S.W.


ABORIGINALITIES
nro establish a school of English
for New Australians a couple of
language-experts visited the little 90 per
cent. Italian W.A. mining community
of Mt. Ida. In the hall a blackboard
had been set-up, on which were
written such phrases as: “We -can see
him. He can see us. We can see them.
They can see us.” It had been reported
that, because of the preponderance of
Italians in the community, English was
seldom spoken. “Tony,” the ex-
pert asked, pointing to “they,”
“what is this word?” “Dey,” answered
Tony, after some gabbling with his
fellow-pupils. “Good. And what is this
word, Nick?” continued the expert, in-
dicating “can.” “Can,” said Nick. “Good.
And this word, Vincenzo?” “See.” “Very
good. And this word, Severo?” he in-
quired, indicating “us.” “Unlikely
starter,” replied Severo, with an air of
indulgence . . . The experts left that
night. Mt. Ida still has- no school of
English. Perhaps they consider the town
bookie is doing a good enough job.—
“Gah.”
“Extensions third-floor, sir!”
“0.W.W.”: Hori’s wahine was com-
plaining to a friend about his being
too hard on his clothes. “So many
holes I find I tell him he must stop
shaving and send his duds to a dry-
cleaner,” the lady declared. “What’s
shaving got to do with it?” the other
Maori lady inquired, and was informed:
“He been getting rid of spots and stains
on best suits by shaving them off with
safety-razor blades!”
* * * *
“Agricola”: Probably more nonsense
has been talked and written about the
Crater on the Atherton Tableland than
about any other hole in Australia. It
is 325 ft. deep, and tourists are told it’s
connected to Lake Eacham by an under-
ground stream, supporting evidence being
a tale of an abo. who fell into the Crater
and turned-up in the lake —15 miles
away! It’s also said that the hole was
caused by a falling meteorite. Actually,
the Crater has no connection with any
lake ; it was caused by an eruption in
a line-of-fault running across the table-
land, and which was also responsible
for Lakes Eacham and Barrine, Brom-
field’s Swamp and Mt. Quincan —all
extinct volcanic craters. A venturesome
nearby farmer once got to the bottom
of the Crater and had a swim in the
ice-cold water. He brought up some of
the biggest freshwater shrimps I’ve ever
seen. The last active volcano on the
Tableland was Mt. Quincan, near
Malanda. It was responsible for the
rich, level corn-lands around Atherton
and Tolga. The area is still subject to
earth-tremors, one in 1947 being severe.
* * *
“Shamuseen”: My nomination for the
toughest specimen of all native Aus-
tralian flora goes to the emu-apple, that
stunted bush which brings forth its
shrivelled, dehydrated fruit in even the
worst drought-conditions. Seemingly it
gets its name from a belief that the
big birds are very partial to it, and that
it never grows, outside areas frequented
by them, though whether the apple or
the emu came first is an argument
which, to my knowledge, has never been
debated. I’ve heard old-timers swear
that the granite-hard seeds of the emu-
apple won’t germinate unless softened
by passage through the digestive pro-
cesses of the emu.
“Myall”: A “blister” pearl, claimed
to be the largest ever found in Torres
Strait, has been brought up by a native
diver from 30 fathoms, close to Thursday
Island. Weighing 85 carats, it is about
the size of a 2s. piece ; had it been an
ordinary one it would have realised
some £3OOO on the overseas market, but
as a “blister” its value is considerably
less. An ordinary pearl is found em-
bedded in the flesh of the oyster; a
“blister” is fastened to the inside of the
mother-of-pearl shell.
* * * *
“Sanasi”: Every taker of weather-
observations—l learned the craft in
Papua/New Guinea —gets acquainted
with the many jingles that apply to
such work: “Long foretold, soon past”;
“A rainbow in the morning”; “Evening
red and morning grey” etc. The origins
of some of them go back much further
than is generally believed. Browsing
over the Bible I found, in Matthew 16,
Verse 3: “And in the morning, it will
be foul weather today: for the sky is
red and rowring.”
* * * *
“Jeyles”: Near the road we saw a
stripling kookaburra dive on a 3ft.
black-snake, and it was a strenuous and
dust-raising donnybrook. Young brush-
back never left the ground, but settled
Joe’s hash with terrific shakings and
ground-bashings. The gnawed-off head
was left on the arena, and the winner
took the loser aloft to a messmate-
branch, where he spent such a long
time chewing on the head-end with no
apparent progress that we got bored
and took-off. I wonder why the many
kookaburras around are never faintly
interested in those disabled brown-,
black- or tiger-snakes that I hang
squirming on top of fences?
* * * *
“Laetitia”: The umbrella-carrying
lubra in Sid Black’s joke-block (B.
28/10/’59) wouldn’t be much out of
character in the Torres Strait Islands,
where binghi matrons with piccaninnies-
in-arms frequently carry sunshades to
protect the infants from sunburn. Sur-
prising how few seem to know that black
babies are born with a skin-pigment
little deeper than golden-brown. The
darker tones don’t develop for several
weeks, and pending this the youngsters
are vulnerable to the sun —and their
mothers start walking about with them
only an hour or so after their arrival.
I’ve noticed, too, that even adult binghis
vary in suntan according to length of
exposure to the rays. Skin-diving boys
removed by injury, incapacity or in-
dolence from their normal pursuit be-
come comparative blonds, little darker
than many Europeans who, as a rule,


" "Ckat sR.uce ? can < «av£
A SIMM IN y<?UR. pt?OU
* th(nk i'p eerred
COME IN OJITH IN f/
v» CASS OF ACCiOBNTS »
ujMAT ARB you T R?(NGr TO QO f
you SlGr AuCfC , p
PRpwN M 6 r


use every artificial aid to sun-avoidance.
I was, however, surprised in 1942-45
to see Australian and U.S. troops moving
about bareheaded and barebacked with
impunity and in complete defiance of
lessons stressed to newcomers by pre-
war and pukka island-dwellers.
+ * * *
“G. 8.”: Recollect that when living
at Geraldton (W.A.) in 1910 there
were other addresses besides the
bankers’ that I could use to com-
municate through the post with
Tattersall’s (B. 11/11/’59). One was
for a time the Cascade Brewery, Hobart;
another one was a Miss Lawson at a
Launceston address, who would send
“A sample of Wallpaper I got for the kids' room!"
them on ; and a very popular one was
Miss Shaw of the Ship Inn, Hobart.
Every barber-shop in Geraldton dis-
played a large notice: “We communi-
cate with Tattersall's, Hobart, Tasmania,
daily.”
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: The inquirer who
asked The Bulletin’s Service Dept.
(4/11/ ’59) to calculate for him the
superficial contents of a 40ft. x 10ft.
log (3000 s.-ft.) was given the complex
mathematical formula for computing a
solid cylinder with an indicated answer
of 3636 ft. Australian logs are usually
scaled “Hoppus” or “Mathieson.” The
former: girth in inches squared over
16 multiplied by length in feet over 12.
The other: girth in feet squared, multi-
plied by three-quarters of the length in
feet. The approx. per cent, dif-
ference between these scales and “actual”
is to allow (in converting to sawn) for
waste such as sawdust, squaring the
circle and eliminating log-taper. Log-
scales such as Scribner and Doyle,
British Columbia, etc., “slide,” as they
are designed equitably to allow in
coniferous logs for the decreased waste
in sawing, as log-girths rise from 2ft.
to 22ft. This aspect is not so applicable
to our hardwood logs, which in the
bigger girths contain proportionately
more carroty and unusable heart-wood.
* * * *
“Jay” (Sarawak): Six centuries ago the
Javanese drove a Malay prince (S’ri
Iscander Shah) from Singapore. He
and his men roamed the nearby seas in
their perahu until he landed on the coast
of Malaya, north-
west of Singapore.
As the Prince rested
under a huge tree
one of his hunting-
dogs drove a timid
rare white mouse-
deer, or plandok,
into the water. To
his astonishment the
Prince saw the tiny
animal turn at bay.
“This is a fine
place,” he said, “the
very plandoks are
full of courage. Let
us make a settle-
ment here!”
Shades of Batman!
They did, and called
the place Malacca,
after the tree under
which the Prince
was standing.
* *
“Fair Mac.”: A
mate has returned
from the season’s
trapping with the
conviction that
myxo. has developed
a much bigger
rabbit. He says that
the old method of
taking them from a
trap by the loins
with one hand is no
longer practicable. He contends, too, that
they’ve got more cunning. At one time
they’d look for a. bit of broken-up
ground ; today they avoid it—you’d think
they could smell the trap. He didn’t do
any good till he hit on the idea of scatter-
ing boiled-oats around a day or two
before he set his traps in a selected spot.
It paid-off so well he reckons that he's
always going to “burley ’em.”
* * * *
“Perseverando”: When a pair of wag-
tails built their nest at the junction of
line and arm on the perimeter of a rotary
clothes-hoist in the backyard of a Como
(Perth) home the lady of the house lent
stability to the structure by flanking it
with spring-pegs, and hung the washing
away from it. Mum and fledgelings don’t
mind their benefactor coming near them,
and they seem to enjoy the whirlaround ;
but father William, on sentry-go, is sus-
piciously alert when she is about.
ROSIE—THREE VIEWS
I
A large dark red rose
Two days before it begins to wither
In the midst of small pink buds,
Snapdragons and geraniums,
And that is Rosie among the women of
Yacca Hill,
The single orchid Eloise omitted.
Rosie —
It’s hardly a name for an unshrewish
Juno
Except in that one connotation
But as Rosie she was famed,
The Railway Hotel barmaid.
II
It was somewhere in December and the
sun was sizzling down
When l came in search of liquor to this
God-forsaken town.
The first pub that I came to they looked
at me like a dog
So 1 moved on for I didn’t like their
faces, and could do without their
grog.
The next pub that I came to it was
nothing but a bar
And the drinkers were all drunkards, so l
waved the place ta-ta.
But the third pub that I came to it was
made for blokes like me,
If I had to plan a heaven that’s how
paradise would be;
The mob were all hard-drinkers, though
few were ever drunk,
And the place, well, if it wasn't perfumed,
at least it never stunk.
The barmaid was a beauty and she
seemed to take to me —
She could have tied me down for life but
yet she left me free.
My cheque ran out as all cheques will
And l took the track feeling rather ill.
Yet of evenings with cattle when the
moon is on the land
Visions come to me of Rosie with a beer-
jug in her hand
Or the naked light upon her and her
body sinking down
And I sometimes wish I’d settled for the
rat-house life of town.
11l
Like a butterfly
1
Would spread our love
Shove
Words for a pin
In
The midst of it
Wit
Behind for cork
Talk.
So capture for ever
Our night by the river
And the discovery
Of the life of the body.
But words like clumsy fingers
Rub off the fragile scales
Destroy the pattern
Flatten life out.
So poetry fails.
But discovery lingers.
QUEENSLAND.
R. G. HAY.


Queensland’s centenary brings to
light the sad story associated with
the discovery of Bowen, the town also
launched into its centenary celebra-
tions. In 1859 Captain Henry Daniel
Sinclair set out with three companions
to find a new port for the rapidly-
growing output of the North, and thus
win for himself the prize offered by the
N.S.W. Government (variously reported
as £lO,OOO and £2000). But when he and
his colleagues returned triumphant with
news of a fine new port he found that
Queensland had been created a State
while he away, and that it had very
little in its coffers (the amount is variously
reported as 9d. and The N.S.W.
Government denied responsibility for the
new State’s debts, so Captain Harry and
his friends had to be content with posts
connected with the new harbor, which
was named Bowen after the first Gover-
nor of the State. —“Cuscus.”
* * * *
“Tabba”: Those stick-and-wire con-
traptions called “Frankenstein”
(B. 16/9/’59) by Mary Bishop and
“Methodist gates” by “Columba” (B.
7 /10/’59) are also known as “invalid
gates”—they collapse in your arms and
have to be carried there and back.
* * * *
- “P.0.M.C.”: Charming little York
(W.A.) has always been a somewhat
unified . town (B. 11/11/’59). On an
excessively hot day there years ago one
pub (which specialised in Swan draught
beer) ran out of stock. Bung, only slightly
perturbed, hopped over to the opposi-
tion (a Bunbury house) and got an
immediate transhipment of the doings,
which went as merrily into the mugs
as Swan. And if anybody knew the
difference, nobody seemed to care.
* * * *
“Tim”: Bob and I had been in the
outback for nearly a year, digging wells
and dams and repairing windmills, fences
and bores. At the last station the tucker
was very good, especially the wild turkey.
Bob mentioned that he patronised a place
in the city whenever we returned from
our trips because of their style of cook-
ing. The manager’s wife said, “That
happens to be my sister’s boarding-house,
she’s a very good cook, but her weakness
is she loves to be told so.” The upshot
was that Bob was commissioned to
deliver their eight-year-old son to his
aunt, for schooling. Other than visits
to nearby stations with his dad, and on
mustering-trips.. he hadn’t been away
from those isolated parts. Edwin proved
good company on the truck-journey
south and was very resourceful in help-
ing with our truck troubles. He was
soon acclimatised at his aunt's place
and all went well even when brawn, a
new dish to him, was served. Apparently
relishing it, he piped-up: “Auntie, ken I
have some more of that soup dried-up?”
* * * *
“Tabba”: The electric-jug has prob-
ably done more than America to destroy
the art of tea-making. The jug has to
be switched off, the lead removed, and
the lid raised before you start pouring,
so that the water is off the boil before
it gets to the leaves. In the old stove-
and-kettle days the kettle, with its heavy
metal, kept the water boiling all the way
out of the spout.
If! Ht * *
“Manamoi”: The late Donald
Macdonald, in his Bush Boy’s Book ,
recommended the use of antheap material
as flooring for tents, on the grounds that
a tent so floored will never be invaded
by snakes, whose worst enemies are ants.
I can vouch for termite-mounds provi-
ding good flooring-material, if watered
and rolled —also good tennis-courts —but
“ Excelsior, Basil! Only four more holes to go!"
the fine old naturalist presumably meant
meat-ants. Anyone tried it out?
* * * *
“Villefair”: First impression of Byron
Bay (N.S.W.) was that here was a collec-
tion of the most unambitious fishermen
I’d ever seen. With a jetty long enough
for even the poorest caster to lob a
bait out into deep, open water, the
dozens of anglers preferred to drop their
lines through the cracks in the decking.
Then one of the crack-danglers passed
me carrying a decent-sized bream and
a real whopper. Next, another bloke,
hunched over an adjacent crack, showed
signs of triumph. I found he had hauled
up the three-pounder until its nose was
in the crack of the decking. It looked
like stalemate, but, standing on the line,
the expert took a large hook, jagged
the captive through the gills, wiggled it
side-on, then gently pulled the prize
through the crack. It was then I, too,
became a crack fisherman—or, anyway,
a reasonably successful fisher through
cracks.
* * * *
“Pieter Nuyts”: One interesting result
of the visit my namesake paid to W.A.’s
south coast in the Golden Zeepaart in
1627 was the subsequent naming of the
Westralian Christmas-tree. This semi-
parasite, a relative of the mistletoe, is
peculiar to the western side of the con-
tintent, and provides some magnificent
displays of blazing orange-colored
blossom. I’ve seen acres covered with it
—it grows to about 20ft., and in bloom
shows up for miles ; and it must have
colored the landscape when Labillardiere,
a member of the French expedition which
came in the Recherche and Esperance in
1792, saw it all in bloom a couple of
weeks before Christmas. Recognising it
as one of the mistletoe-family, he called
it Loranthus fioribundus; but when
Brown, the botanist with Flinders, saw
it, he regarded it as such a striking
example of the flora of Nuytsland that he
named it Nuytsia floribunda. Contrary
to precedent, the second naming has
been accepted.
BREAKWATERS, NEWCASTLE
HARBOR
“Jehoshaphat,” the sailors cry,
In sundry tongues and twangs,
“Oh, what a little mouth it has
For such enormous fangs.”
N.S.W.
IAN HAEALY.


*
i leandX
ag Rgf
There’s richer enjoyment in every glass
Australia’s
Better Brandy
st AGnes
Pot-stHi BRANDY
There’s no drink at once so stimulating ... so
relaxing ... so cheering at all times as good
Australian brandy. And no brandy offers you
richer, more satisfying enjoyment than St. Agnes.
All the skill and experience of careful wine mak-
ing, distilling and blending are combined in the
perfection of St. Agnes Brandy . . . winning for St. Agnes a
distinguished reputation for quality, both in Australia and the
world over!
Enjoy the
Better Brandy
stagings
Old Liqueur
or Three Star
BRANDY
ANGOVE’S
of RENMARK, S.A. • WINEMAKERS & DISTILLERS
ASK ALSO FOR ANGOVE'S WINE
Business, Robbery, Etc.
PROVINCIAL TRADERS HOLDING, LTD.
T>ressure on the Brisbane
market from the sale of
rights to new issues of £500,000
of £1 ord. shares and £500,000
of £1 8 p.c. convertible notes
has had the effect of depressing
the market for both ords. and
notes in Provincial Traders
Holding, Ltd. The co.’s subsidi-
aries make margarine, fertilisers
and fondants in Queensland.
Paid capital at present is
£729,201, which will rise to
£1,229,201 after the issue, and
the convertible note-issue will
mount to £1,000,000, half con-
vertible into ords. (on the basis
of £lOO of notes for £BO of
shares) at holders’ option on
May 31, 1968, and the other
half, on the same terms, on
June 30, 1972.
Noteholders are entitled to
participate in new issues of
ords. as though they had
already converted, and there-
fore may take eight of the
present new issue of ords. for
every 23 £1 notes they hold.
The ords.’ ratio is 10 for 23.
Ords. were entitled to take-up
two of the new notes for every
five shares held, and note-
holders had the same ratio in
respect of their noteholdings.
Application for the notes
closed on November 30, but
rights to the ords. are being
dealt in until December 21.
Rights to the ords. are avail-
able at under 10s. on the open
market, making the cost of the
shares, when fully paid, 30s. On
the present 9 p.c. div. basis, the
yield at that price would be 6
p.c.
Foaled in the Fairymead
Sugar stable in 1929, (C. A. N.
Young still heads both con-
cerns), the Provincial Traders
group now consists of three
subsidiaries Provincial
Traders Pty. (Golden Flake
industrial margarine, Spread-
well table-margarine, Kirrabelle
cooking-margarine, Kirrabelle
lard and . Kirrabelle dripping,
and meat-meal); Fertiliser
Distributers Pty. (F.D.L. ferti-
lisers and pesticides); Fondants
(Q.) Pty. (Bridal-brand fon-
dants, etc.)
The co. has had no difficulty
in selling its margarine out-
put ; it is restricted in its table-
margarine quota, but makes a
large quantity of cooking- and
industrial-margarine., At the
annual meeting on November
3 the chairman said that the
fertiliser and margarine-and-
oil factories were of the most
modern design in Australia.
The group was set on its
feet by the shortage of its pro-
ducts in World War 11, and has
since shown immense growth.
Even in 1951 its paid capital
was only £250,000. As indi-
cated already, its capital and
note-issues at the end of this
year will aggregate £2,229,201
—almost 10 times the figure of
eight years ago. Turnover
exceeds £3 million a year.
For 1957-58 it showed net
profits of 18.4 p.c. on average
capital. Last term, after pay-
ing interest on the note-issue,
the ratio dropped to 15.7 p.c.
But the board has emphasised
that it expects the 9 p.c. divi-
dend to be maintained on the
enlarged capital after paying
the increased note-interest.
Apparently as a precaution
against possible takeover offers,
the co. is revaluing its land
and buildings (without any
intention of making a bonus-
issue) and intends to split the
£1 shares into ss. units.
If it is seriously concerned
about takeover possibilities—
and the business could be very
attractive to Sydney or Mel-
bourne concerns already find-
ing diversification profitable—
it could spread the market
interest in its shares by open-
ing a register in Sydney. This
it might conceivably arrange
with Fairymead Sugar, which
already has a Sydney register.
It seems clear enough that
the present weakness in the
scrip in Brisbane is the result of
£1,000,000 of shares and notes
having to be digested mostly on
the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
The need for a Sydney register,
if N.S.W. support for the stock
is sought, arises from the fact
that the estates of deceased
N.S.W. residents owning Pro-
vincial Traders’ scrip become
liable for Queensland probate-
duty where there is no Sydney
register.
Land and buildings, “at cost
or valuation, less depreciation,”
figured in the accounts at
£609,009 at June 30 (up
£147,956 during the year).
Plant, at cost, less depreciation,
was in at £492,523 (up
£145,281).
Outlook and Development
Tn the opinion of H. D.
A Giddy, chairman of the
National Bank of Australasia,
it seems reasonable to conclude
that, overall, Australian busi-
ness and industry should be
more active in 1959-60 than
during 1958-59. All this, he con-
siders, is highly desirable, pro-
vided that as a people we con-
tinue to make our savings and
are sufficiently wise not to dissi-
pate the success achieved over
recent years in bringing the
economy back to a sounder
basis.
There still is unused produc-
tive capacity available to cope
with the greater volume of
purchasing - power. ' Without
making proper use of our
potentials in this direction, we
could easily pay the price of
further inflation.
This is the one unhappy
possibility in what appears
otherwise to be a promising
outlook, Mr. Giddy said. Given
reasonable cost- and price-
stability, a further improve-
ment in our real standard of
living could be expected
Further evidence of the trend
towards greater maturity of the
banking-system and financial
structure, Mr. Giddy pointed
out, was provided in February
last, when the central bank
decided to support, under
certain conditions, a limited
number of authorised dealers in
the development of an official
short-term money-market. This
action is commendable in that
it places an official seal upon
an activity that was being
developed by private enterprise
to meet a growing need in our
commercial affairs. At the end
of October, funds lodged with
the market totalled £74 million.
Another interesting step is
the legislation recently intro-
duced into the Federal Parlia-
ment to provide for the issue of
seasonal Treasury-notes. These
notes will absorb surplus funds
during the months of high
export-income and low taxa-
tion-payments, and they will be
repaid during the later months


“WALES” REPORT, year ended 30.9.59
Broadening the Bank’s Business
The Bank of New South Wales has experienced a growth in its banking business in the past year and
has widened the scope of its interests.
A most gratifying measure of expansion has been maintained by our wholly-owned subsidiary,
the Bank of New South Wales Savings Bank Limited.
Public approval of the extension of the Bank’s services to include facilities for investment in Unit
Trusts has been shown in a most practical fashion. Funds of the Wales Unit Investment Pty. Ltd., a
wholly-owned subsidiary, exceeded £4,500,000 at September 30.
During the year the Bank acquired Australian Superannuation Funds Ltd. The company's
operations are to be expanded to enable self-employed persons, and employees as individuals or as
groups anywhere in Australia to participate in the superannuation and retirement benefits which the
company’s operations will offer.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
and
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 30TH SEPTEMBER 1959
ASSETS £
Coin, Bullion, Notes, and Cash at Bankers 35,609,163
Money at Short Call —Australia .. .. 10,010,000
—London .. .. 6,906,250
Short-dated Treasury Bills —Australia and
London 13,850,000
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank
of Australia 59,720,000
Statutory Deposit with Reserve Bank of
New Zealand 11,442,223
Government and other Securities .. .. 166,991,735
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit 68,858,273
Due by Other Banks 7,446,290
£380,833,934
Loans and Advances to Customers and
Local Bills Discounted 285,474,458
Shares in Subsidiary and other Companies 4,483,056
Accrued Interest and Sundry Balances .. 2,361,883
Bank Premises 12,050,000
£685.203,331
LIABILITIES £
Issued and Paid-up Capital 21,950,000
Reserve Funds 15,000,000
Undistributed Profits 1,100,230
Proposed Final Dividend 493.875
Deposits, etc. 645,674,447
Notes in Circulation 80,872
Due to Other Banks •. 903,907
£685.203,331
Through its participation in Australian United
Corporation Ltd., the Bank is playing some part
in the provision of developmental finance for
Australian industry.
The main movements in the whole of the
operations of the Bank of New South Wales were
as follows:
Deposits
Total deposit items at September 30 amounted to
£646,000,000, an increase of £78,000,000, of which
£32,000.000 was in the Bank of New South Wales
Savings Bank Limited.
1 Advances
Advances at September 30 were £285,000,000, a fall
of £2,000,000 over the year. Advances by the
Savings Bank, however, mainly for housing,
increased by £8,000,000. e
Profit
Net profit for the year was £2,439,000, equivalent to
7.6% of shareholders’ funds.
Dividends
Total dividends for the year ended September 30
were £1,876,725, or 9% on capital.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
" (incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
Oldest and largest trading bank operating in Australia, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and New Guinea, with
three branches in London and a wide network of oversea agents and correspondents.
A 5957
of the fiscal year, when export-
income is lower and taxation-
payments are heavy.
Private enterprise has estab-
lished during the past year
more facilities for the provision
of long-term finance. Capital-
raisings by listed companies
totalled £lB7 million, compared
with £ll3 million during
1957-58. Debentures, registered
notes, etc. —in other words,
fixed-term borrowings—com-
prised approximately three-
quarters of this total of £lB7
million, whereas share-capital
amounted to approximately
one-quarter only.
J. Gadsden’s Latest
Touring last term J. Gadsden
U (Aust.), Ltd., absorbed
Gadsden-Hughes, Ltd., and
after the close of the year
announced that it was partner-
ing W. E. Smith, Ltd., in a
Brisbane venture to make
corrugated and solid-fibre
packaging components. Now
the takeover of James Robert-
son Pty., Ltd., Sydney, has been
completed, at a cost of 880,000
J. Gadsden 10s. shares.
James Robertson Pty., like
Gadsden’s, makes cans and
carries on tin - printing.
Gadsden’s also turns-out a
variety of other containers,
including plastic bags for
sweets, etc., and has a contract
for making packages for Roth-
mans cigarettes.
The 1958-59 term was one of
financial and manufacturing
consolidation, and disclosed
earnings were somewhat disap-
pointing at 10.5 p.c. on capital.
The dividend was maintained
at 8 p.c.
After allotment of the take-
over consideration to Robert-
son’s, paid capital of J. Gads-
den’s will be £5,831,718 in
11,663,437 shares of 10s. each.
Prospects for the current
term appear brighter, with the
long-term prospects brighter
still. The 10s. shares, which
rose to near 20s. a few weeks


mhmhmmhw
VV
4^%
Ann
(
WHAT TO GIVE
THE PATER
THIS CHRISTMAS?
*•' M. 1
A GIFT SUBSCRIPTION
TO AUSTRALIA'S
NATIONAL NEWSPAPER
e
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
ELSEWHERE IN THIS ISSUE
THE “WILD CAT*
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/*•
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urquhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Mullens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
BWBI7I (3 lines) 8L5327
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECELEX.” Sydney
ago, later sagged to 165., but
have since recovered to 17s. 9d.
At that figure the yield would
be 4.5. p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis..
Northern Telecasters, Ltd.
"Cormer Federal Minister
J. P. (loe) Abbott, that
“bonnie fighter” of other days
in the Federal Reps. (Chifley,
over Metropolitan Cement, and
8.H.P., over the demand for a
Whyalla steelworks, found him
a hard man to toss), heads the
board of the new Northern Tele-
casted Ltd., formed to provide
an independent and (as far as
practicable) locally controlled
television service in the New-
castle, Hunter Valley and
central and lower N.S.W.
North Coast.
Of the 1,200,000 ss. shares
issued or offered to the public,
Pye Industries, Ltd., has taken-
up and paid for 299,993 ss.
shares. The public is offered
900,000 ss. shares, all under-
written by Hordern, Utz and
Bode. No call on these shares
will be made until the outcome
of the co.’s application for a
licence is determined. No
licence, no call; and in that
case the co. will be wound-up.
Financial possibilities of
rural telecasting have yet to
be determined, but the co. is
situated in a good area, and
its offer of shares to the public
is on very fair terms.
Drive-in Popularity
TAeveloping along similar
lines to Sydney, Brisbane’s
retail-trade is expanding to the
suburbs —not to"the established
suburban shopping-centres, but
to the drive-in shopping-
centres. Following the success
of the Chermside drive-in,
Allan and Stark (recently
acquired by Myers) is in the
process of establishing a further
drive-in at Coorparoo. T. C.
Beirne has bought land at
Nundah and plans a drive-in
there; Rockmans, who have
recently taken-over Queen
Street retailer Edwards and
Lamb, have announced similar
intentions —-site not yet dis-
closed. Finally, an indepen-
dent group has plans for a
drive-in somewhere on the
south side.
Bwata
IFrom Li. Owen]
A special report from the
Australasian Petroleum
Co. on November 17 stated
that the Bwata well —located
15 miles n.-w. of Puri in
Western Papua—was drilling
in limestone at 4991 ft., and that
a test of the formation between
4760 ft. and 4991 ft. revealed a
small gas “show.”
The factual nature of this
report did not prevent the
Port Moresby furphy-factory
from getting busy and rumors
of an oil-strike were launched ;
these were immediately denied
officially, but not in time to
stop them from reaching the
ears of members of the Senate.
In Canberra, on November
20, the Minister for National
Development, in answer to a
question, confirmed both the gas
show and the denial of an oil-
strike. He added that the
formation-test indicated a
production - rate of 20,000
cubic-feet an hour between
4780 ft. and 4990 ft.
The figure compares, rather
unfavorably, with the three-
million cu.-ft. a day (125,000
cu.-ft. an hour) of wet-gas
produced in Puri No. 1 well
over the 7460-7508 ft. interval
(B. 12/11 /’5B). Neither of
these rates, however, are a
commercial proposition in
Western Papua.
The importance of the Bwata
show is in the fact that the
Miocene limestone exhibits
porosity and permeability 15
miles distant from the original
strike at Puri, and that —at
that disance (in spite of the
disappointing results from the
Puri deviated offsets) —it still
contains petroleum - gas
(although the important fact
of whether it is “wet” or not
has not yet been published).
It is comforting, also, to
note that the gas-bearing lime-
stone was encountered at a
depth more than 2500 ft. above
that at Puri. This fact should
aid oil-migration from depth
into the Bwata structure.


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS, A. MURRAY JONES, HUGH DIXSON,
D. A. T. DICKINS.
Fire, Marine snd Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
A DISCRIMINATING HOST’S FIRST CHOICE
Vintage Wines
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS: CRAIG MOSTYN & CO. PTY. LTD.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“The Piccadilly Bushman”
In the first act of his new
play (Sydney Royal) Ray
Lawler swiftly presents two
conflicts: one between an Aus-
tralian actor who wants to be
accepted as an Englishman, and
his wife, who feels that he has
rejected her along with his
country ; the other, the struggle
of an Australian writer to
protect his novel from the
attempts of an English film-
director and his scriptwriter to
turn it into an adventure-film
wrapped in English notions of
Australia as a raw colony.
Linked by the novelist’s
appeals for the support of the
actor, who is to star in the
film (he having been very
successful on the English stage),
the two conflicts interact to
raise an enormous subject—
nothing less than the wnole
complex of contemporary
attitudes between Australia and
England, and Australia’s
struggle to project a true
national image.
These issues are so ripe for
dramatic treatment that the
mere raising of them is enough
to generate considerable excite-
ment. But as well as raising
them Lawler deftly suggests
three promising levels of
inquiry into them —the emoti-
onal, through the actor and
his wife; the intellectual,
through the novelist and the
film-director ; and the satirical,
through the romantically-
minded scriptwriter and the
Anglophile couple in whose
Vaucluse (Sydney) home the
action takes place.
Unfortunately, none of these
levels of inquiry is satisfactorily
extended. Argument and satire
go little further than acid
ridicule of the sillier Austra-
lian notions about England and
the more outdated English
notions about Australia; and
neither of the two conflicts is
convincingly resolved.
The obvious reason for this
is Lawler’s choice and develop-
ment of his characters, few of
whom are wholly believable,
either in themselves or as
representatives of contem-
porary Anglo - Australian
attitudes.
The Vaucluse couple are
mere knockabout figures, their
snobbery wildly overstated;
the English scriptwriter is much
too naive in his romanticism ;
the director and the Australian
publicity - woman, though
admirably drawn, are used like
pawns; and the novelist, with
his boorishness and his lapses
into fables derived from abo-
riginal folklore (a long and
muddled specimen of which is
made to end his conflict with
the Englishmen by “convert-
ing” them), is a hopelessly
incompetent spokesman for
Australian cultural values as
they are today.
Most puzzling of all, how-
ever, is the Australian actor.
With a little effort one
can believe in his wish to
be accepted as an Englishman,
and, to a certain extent, in the
terrible limbo of the spirit into
which he confesses it has ban-
ished him ; but his total rejec-
tion of Australia, springing
from an almost pathological
hatred of the place, needs some
explaining, especially as it is
supposed to be the cause of his
wife’s fairly spectacular drink-
ing and man-hunting.
There is a lot of dramatic
potential in both these charac-
ters, and perhaps the play
should have been almost
entirely about them. As it is,
by the time their problem has
been barely outlined it is too
late to examine it fully, and
only a contrived resolution of
it is possible.
But even though it does not
really pierce the large issues
before it, “The Piccadilly B.ush-
man” simply has to be seen.
Powered by John McCallum s
brisk and searching produc-
tion, it moves fluently across
the stage, its surface crackling
with provocation and many
passages of sharply authentic
dialogue.
The acting of the whole cast
—notably that of Guy Dole-
man and Diana Davidson, as
the actor and his wife, John
Gray as the novelist, and Grace
Clive as the publicity-woman—
is exceptionally capable and
well sustained.
Desmonde Downing’s
Harbor - view stage - design,
aided by skilful lighting and
sound-effects, provides an
atmosphere of fitting and
memorable gloss.
+*♦
“A View from the Bridge”
With this production of
Arthur Miller’s attempt at
tragedy in the classical manner
the North Sydney Independent
returns to the top of its form
as a place where vital theatre
can be seen strongly and faith-
fully realised.
The play concerns an Italian-
American wharfie whose
paternal affection for the niece
he has reared develops into a
barely repressed sexual love.
This illicit passion so twists
his nature that, when one of
the two illegal Sicilian immig-
rants staying in his house falls
in love with the girl, he slanders
the boy as a homosexual and
then betrays both immigrants
to the authorities —an act which
brings his death in a fight with
the boy’s avenging brother.
There are undeniable ele-
ments of real tragedy in this
spectacle of a good man driven
to destruction by a passion he
can neither admit nor under-
stand ; but Miller has appar-
ently been unable to make the
story reveal them for itself.
Instead he has imposed them
from without, through a
lawyer-narrator who, chorus-
like, acts as a sort of advertis-
ing-agent for them.
The device is self-defeating:
the narrator’s solemn and infla-
ted language (though well
delivered by Peter Williams)
sounds oddly against the spare,
hard line of the plot, and even
emphasises by contrast the
essentially commonplace and


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept., NEW SUB. / RENEWAL
The Bulletin Newspaper, (Please cross out one)
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque I money-order f0r.......
months’ subscription to The Bulletin.
RECIPIENT:
ADDRESS:
DONOR:..
ADDRESS:
GIFT SUBSCRIPTION: If the above is a Christmas gift
an appropriate Greetings-card will be sent direct to the
recipient announcing your gift and signed on your behalf.
SIGN CARD:.....
Rates (A/asia): 1 year —£2 Bs.; year —£1 4s. 6d. Post
free. British C’wealth: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALBERT JOHN VICTOR SIMON
late of Manly New South Wales.—
TAKE NOTICE that GLADYS LEIGH
SIMON has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3780 of 1959 on the ground of
habitual drunkenness and leaving with-
out means of support during three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Macquarie
Street Sydney by the 10th February
1960 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from N. V. MEN-
LOVE, Solicitor, 160 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO lAN BEAUMONT McCALE late of
164 Wellington Street, Bondi. —TAKE
NOTICE that JUNE PATRICIA
McCALE has filed a Petition for
Divorce'No. 1627 of 1957 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Mint Building Queen’s Square Sydney
by 10th February 1960 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. C. DON SERVICE &
CO., Solicitors, of 39-49 Martin Place,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO BORIS VAREP late of St. Mary’s
Migrants’ Camp N.S.W. —TAKE NOTICE
that LINDA VAREP has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4083 of 1959 on the
ground of your desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter *rn appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Macquarie
Street Sydney by 16th February 1960
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from H. G. LEVI & CO.,
Solicitors, of 148 Phillip Street, Sydney.
—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
melodramatic nature of certain
sce A n f, s - .
All he same, the play as
a whole makes a successful
emotional onslaught, and, taken
at something less than its
author’s evaluation, it is a very
good thing indeed
Peter Summerton’s produc-
tion was tight and well guided
in the first of the two acts;
but once the point of betrayal
was passed it loosened a little
and let the melodrama have
too free a gallop. This is hardly
a serious fault: the melodrama
is in the writing, and could
probably only be reined-in with
tricks.
Owen Weingott’s study of
the wharfie was worth going a
long way to see. Splendidly
shaped and directed, it was
played from the inside all the
way, with a rare intelligence
and sensitivity.
Gwen Bevan persuasively
caught the tough and fright-
ened spirit of the wharfie’s
wife ; but Veronica Rouse, as
the niece, was seldom able to
go deeper than the appropriate
attitudes.
Graham Rouse and Alan
Dalgleish were convincing as
the immigrants ; but perhaps
a little more of ambiguous
flightiness is needed from the
slandered boy, and a stronger
suggestion of latent explosive
passion from the avenger.
“Christmas Oratorio’’
Last Saturday, in Sydney’s
St. Andrew’s Cathedral,
Mervyn J. Byers gave a lesson
in the art of conducting, draw-
ing by expressive gesture —the
rapid turning-over of wrist, for
example, to signify cut-off —
much of the festive content
of Bach’s “Christmas Ora-
torio.”
The St. Andrew’s Choral
Society was suitably alert and
responsive to its short, grey-
suited conductor. Although,
in scune of the heavier
choruses, a shortage of solid
bass-tenor tone was apparent,
and although, unfortunately,
David Barkla’s organ accom-
paniment sometimes lacked
rhythmic control, the whole
thing was carefully presented.
Before the Bach there were
two really refreshing modern
works: Gerald Finzi’s “In
Terra Pax,” a Christmas scene
for soprano, baritone solos and
chorus; and two flowing
Howells pieces.
Besides a contrast between
modern writing and the calcu-
lated polyphony of Bach, these
pieces also gave us a glimpse
of the contemporary approach
to ancient liturgical subjects—
particularly in the Finzi, a
subtle and evocative bit of
programme-music calling for a
bass narrator to show us snow-
fleeced fields and angelic hosts.
Soloist Barry Strong sang with
suppleness and clarity of dic-
tion ; and the choir, most
notably in the “Glory to God”
antiphonal section, with its
seesaw effect of striding
harmonies, handled this tech-
nically difficult music with
firm control.
Howells’s “Sing Lullaby” is
unaccompanied, and in the
composer’s hands the word
“lullaby” becomes a ductile
statement, ebbing through
time-changes and foreign keys
to end on a classical cadence-
point ; and in “A Spotless
Rose” a baritone soloist (in
this case, John Davies) de-
claims over flowing choral
movement.
In the Bach (Parts 1 to 3
were performed) the best
moments came in the inter-
polated chorales and in the
choruses “Christians Be Joy-
ful,” “Glory to God in the
Highest” and in the final
chorus, “Hear, King of
Angels.”
Of the soloists, Barry Strong
brought strength of purpose
and a sense of light and shade
to his bass solos ; tenor Alan
Payne varied between extreme
tenderness in soft passages, a
rather brittle handling of
fortes and a general matter-of-
fact approach. Robin Gurr’s
soprano was pleasant, if
sometimes a bit fluttery ; and
contralto Elizabeth Allen was
richly assured in her two
extended solos, but elsewhere
—hampered by uneven accom-
paniment—was inclined to
vie with the organ for stringi-
ness of delivery.
The last bar in the final
chorus, with the choir extended
to its vocal limits and with
Mervyn Byers gesturing to-
wards the mirror set above the
organ-console, gave David
Barkla his chance: in three
seconds the cathedral organ
swelled and thundered before
both choir and accompani-
ment were peremptorily
silenced by the conductor. It
was a. memorable moment.
A. W.
❖ * *
Melbourne Musical Muddles
Music, both sides of the
counter, suffered yet another
setback in Melbourne last
week. The Victorian Symphony
Orchestra lost its “permanent”
conductor, Kurt Woess, and the
listening-public now faces the
somewhat unsettling prospect
of a series of concerts next year
under visiting baton-wielders
only.
This sort of situation, how-
ever, is not new in Melbourne.
No fewer than four conductors
have been allowed to slip
through the hands of this
A.8.C.-controlled orchestra in
its 10 years of existence.
Indeed, the list is beginning to
read quite impressively. Gal-
liera, Castro and Susskind—all
of whom threw in the towel
after only two years—and now
Woess, after four years. What
other orchestra in the world
could point to such disting-
uished “permanent” company
over such a short period?
Melbourne critics, both
amateur and professional, have
as usual wasted little time in
bringing their omniscience to
bear on the subject, and the
squabbling has begun in earn-
est.
Among the rather hotheaded
recommendations: kick out the
A.B.C. as the controlling body
of the V.S.O. ; for too long, it
is alleged, the A.B.C. has
favored the Sydney orchestra
while evasively standing by and
allowing the V.S.O. to play far
too much music of dubious
quality under far too many
conductors of equally dubious
ability.
Other major faults mentioned
include the old one of the
system of promotion, which, in
the V. 5.0., is based mainly on


This Christmas..
you can open your doors wide
to an old friend
X
<WK ***** *
DEWARS
"•wvi f
&&CH i
WHISKY
SCOTCH
m
W%i.
: : : :
m
mm&w
V
,9/,
White Label"
W*V*RS FlNt SfOICH WhiSKV
John Dewars Sons l-
pE*rH
SCOTLAND
Yours to enjoy, and enjoy giving, over
the festive season: Dewar’s "White
Label” Scotch Whisky in this colourful
new carton. There’s no doubt: "Scotch
is the drink . . . and Dewar’s is the
Scotch.” It never varies.
length of service rather than
on sheer ability.
So far, as may well be imag-
ined, only the mistakes of the
past have been exhaustively-
noted. Any solutions heard
above the tumult—and there
have been precious few —have
had more than a touch of
woolly idealism about them,
and for the most part have
remained vaguely general.
One thing, however, is
certain: the tales of woe and
frustration will hardly enhance
Victoria’s reputation among
overseas conductors.
A. S. J.
Arfbursts
George Arnold
It is easy to imagine that
George Arnold, whose exhibi-
tion of oils and watercolors
currently fills the Tasmanian
Tourist Bureau Gallery in Mel-
bourne, is greatly affected by
his subject-matter. His works
suggest a strong feeling for
the drama of light, shade and
color, and for those disconcert-
ing little tricks of Nature which
we never take much notice of
until an artist sets up his easel
and pinpoints them for us —
eerie cloud- and shadow-
patterns, reflections on still or
ruffled water, and so on.
But unfortunately, in trans-
muting his lively sensations into
conscious art, Arnold betrays
a certain technical evasiveness
amounting almost to amateur-
ishness.
His freshest and most spon-
taneous work appears to be
his most hurried ; it is also,
according to catalogue and not
aesthetic values, his cheapest—
namely, the “Christmas Gift
Corner” bracket ; six small,
vividly sketched studies of city
life.
Here and there —as in the
oddly arranged blobs entitled
“Decoration—Madonna” — he
seems to be trying to prove that
modernist trends have not alto-
gether escaped him. He should
remember the dangers of trying
to have a foot in two camps at
once: the result, all too often,
is mediocrity.
♦♦♦ ♦t*
Justin O’Brien
Justin O’Brien’s exhibition of
saints and angels in blues and
reds and golds at Sydney Mac-
quarie Galleries is too much like
an exhibition transported direct
from any Italian gallery of
medieval religious paintings to
have a strong appeal, beyond
the pleasure of style and color,
for anybody who thinks that
painting should have something
to do with life. He has, surely,
most to say when he is least
derivative, as in the drawing
(not the oil) of the kitchen-
stove, the pale but strangely
moving “Portrait of a Young
Man” and the very sensitive
landscape-drawing “Hill End.”
Films
“Resurrection”
With Horst Buchholz as
Prince Dmitri, who light-
heartedly seduces servant-girl
Caterina Maslova and dramati-
cally repents when she goes to
the bad, this is another of those
well-meaning attempts to put
the broad genius of Tolstoy on
a narrow screen.
In this reviewer’s opinion it
just can’t be done—one is left
with the bones of a plot, or
sub-plot, and spectacular shots.
In “War and Peace” the spec-
tacle was a sort of Wild West
show of broken armies, snow,
and burning Moscow ; here it
is snow, troikas, and the dreary
journey to Siberia.
Still, enough of Tolstoy
shines through the gloss of
sentimentality to be provoca-
tive. The least satisfactory
characters are those recurring
projections of Tolstoy’s land-
owner’s conscience—the con-
verted aristocrat and the
God-struck peasant. The best
scene —with modern echoes —
is of the trainloads of exiled
humanity ; and Myriam Bru’s
debased Caterina is impressive.
Italian dialogue, English sub-
titles.
At Sydney Savoy.
*++ *t* *t*
“Man of the West” (Sydney
Esquire) has that curious
ambivalence common in Holly-
wood productions: one is left
wondering which came first, the
corn or the artistry.
This, with Gary Cooper as
the reformed western baddy
who falls among old associates
headed by an outlaw uncle, and
Julie London as the gal, is
mostly pure corn, with good
scenery. The big set-piece is a
gunfight in a mining ghost-
town, in which Gary elimin-
ates most of the gang. More
impressive, though, are some
earlier scenes: a fight between
Gary and one of the gang, and
the beaten outlaw's hysterical
reaction to humiliation ; a con-
versation between Cooper and
his screen-cousin; and the
composite picture of the gang
as bush larrikins.


PUT YOUR CAPITAL TO WORK WITH
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT
CORPORATION LTD
introduced
for the first time by
Cambridge Credit . . .
RENEWAL
INTEREST
RATES
Sound Security
earns you
AUDITOR'S CERTIFICATE
Wp wish to advise that the net tangible assets for all unsecured
liabilities as from the balance sheet figures as at 30th June. 1950,
are: Current Assets £1,507,529. Less Secured Liabilities £160.253.
Net Tangible Assets cover for all Unsecured Liabilities £1.347.276.
SCORER. PURCELL & CO.. Registered under the Public Account-
ants Registration Act, 1945 —as amended.
ASSETS NOW EXCEED £2.500,000
You can withdraw money in a personal emergency
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT
CORPORATION LTD
Ist FLOOR, PARK HOUSE,
15 PARK STREET. SYDNEY.
PHONE: BM 6945
(4 LINES)
In addition to the high interest return of Cambridge Credit
Registered Fixed Deposit Notes shown in the table, the Company
has introduced a RENEWAL INTEREST RATE of great benefit
to investors. For example. 6-month deposit at 8% renewed for
another ti mouths returns a Renewal Interest Rate of 81% for
the new term. Similarly, a 2-year deposit of 9% renewed for a
further year returns a Renewal Interest Rate of 10%. (See
Scale.) For persons who may require to call up investments
at short notice. Cambridge Credit Corporation has introduced a
short term rate (61%) at 14 days call. This provides an
excellent return to people holding funds for specific purposes.
Renewal Interest Rates do not apply on short call investment
TERMS
INTEREST
RATE
RENEWAL
INTEREST
RATE
3 YEARS
ARDOVER
10%
10%
2 YEARS
10%
ONE YEAR
81%
6 MONTHS
8%
8
■ o/
I /o
14 DAYS CALL 6J%
CLIP
OUT
AND
MAIL
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION LTD.
Box 553, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please send me Application Form and Copy
of your last Balance Sheet.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 2/12/’59


Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771—8 W 8088
Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdale”
PATRICK & COMPANY
Sydney.
R. H. ALLEN
P. R. LEVY
M. R. L. DOWLING
A. F. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange .
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911.
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Consolidated Industries
5OOO years ago, before the dawn
of our era, an unknown genius in.
the land we now call Syria sent the first
glass ball rolling. Since then glass has
gradually become one of the basic sub-
stances of human life. It has come to
perform countless essential functions in
the modern world, and doesn’t look like
being put out of business even by the
present-day canning of beer.
With its paid-up capital lifted to
£11,591,474 by the long-awaited one-
for-six bonus hand-out last October,
Australian Consolidated Industries con-
trols Australia’s largest glass-making
enterprise. The co. operates throughout
the Commonwealth and in New Zealand,
Singapore and Thailand.
Interests are not restricted to glass-
manufacture. The group, through more
than 40 subsidiaries and associate cos.,
also produces laminex and other plastic
materials, cartons, cases, and clay pro-
ducts. It has extensive engineering in-
terests and dabbles in quarrying, finance
and insurance cos.
The profits, as exhibited, climbed
steadily until 1955, but slumped in the
next three years, picking-up remarkably
to reach a new record in the last term.
Widely diversified interests, developed in
recent years, should prove an important
stabilising factor in the future.
Last year A.C.I. took several impor-
tant steps to consolidate its industrial
empire and widen its activities.
Towards the end of the year the co.
successfully bid for the whole issued
stock of Luke Muras, Ltd. (Sydney
structural-steel engineer), offering one
20s. A.C.I. share for every five -ss. L.M.
stock-units. Arrangements have since
been made for Johns and Waygood
Holdings, Ltd. (of Melbourne), to par-
ticipate in developing Luke Muras by
buying a half-interest from A.C.I.
(partly for cash and partly for J. and W.
shares).
Turnover and profits of the A.C.I.
group in Australia and overseas were
at a high level last term. The overall
increase in sales in Australia and N.Z.
was said to be about 4 p.c. However,
the trade of the Far East sections in
Singapore and Bangkok felt the effect
of general instability in the area, and
showed a substantial reduction, although
still recording a profit.
On the whole, the year ended June
30, 1959, showed an impressive jump
in earnings. Consolidated trading-profit
and income from investments (£274,977,
up £68,758) increased by £956,929 to
£7,681,086. Depreciation write-off was
£309,356 lower at £1,791,771. The co.
attributes this substantial cut to the
lower rate of capital expenditure last
term v Directors’ and auditors’ remunera-
tion totalled £Bl,BBl.
Tax provision was £405,496 higher at
£2,502,382 and was roughly in line with
the trading profits declared. However,
a clearer picture is hard to come by
due to extensive overseas connections
and complications with allowable depre-
ciation deductions.
The co. disclosed its net earnings
(after deducting £20,114 minority in-
terests) a solid £429,804 higher at
£2,192,150. However, this figure was
struck after taking-off massive provisions
(totalling £1,045,000), charged against
revenue. Provisions for stock-value fluc-
tuations and for increased replacement
costs of fixed assets each absorbed
£465,000. Another £115,000 was shown
as “transfers to other reserves and pro-
visions.”
A better view of the co.’s earnings
is given by inclusion of these provisions
in the profits and accumulated re-
serves :
A.C.I. AND SUBSIDIARIES.^
z — 1 —Dividends —^
Net Pref.
Jne., Profit. 9 p.c. f —Ordinaries Reserves.*
£ £ £ £
Exchange surplus, £l3BO .. .. 5,363,690
Share premiums, £895,620 .. 6,259,310
Profit sale assets, £13,787 .. .. 6,273,097
Unexplained additions, £375,381 .. 6,648,478
’52 833,374 15,750 9 p.c. = 644,227 6,821,875
Share premiums, £282,439 .. 7,104,314
Profit sale assets. £5323 .. .. 7,109,637
Unexplained additions, £29,662 . . 7,139,299
’53 991,906 15,750 9 p.c. = 726,844 7,388,611
Share premiums, £512 .. .. 7,389,123
Profit sale assets, £14,803 .. 7,403,926
From tax reserves, etc., £293,926.. 7,697,852
’54 1,183,525 15,750 10 p.c. = 834,984 8,030,643
Profit sale assets, £3477 . . . . 8,034,120
Unexplained additions, £212,498 8,246,618
'55 2,424,126 15,750 124 j).c. =1,044,980 9,610,014
To staff fund, £lOO,OOO .. .. 9,510,014
Share premiums, £348,129 .. 9,858,143
Profit sale assets, £6372 . . . . 9,864,515
Net unexpl’d additions, £181.605.. 10,046,120
’56 2,271,254 15,750 124 n.c. =1,088,52111,213,103
To staff fund, £lOO,OOO . . .. 11,113,103
Share premiums, £174,361 . . 11,287,464
Surplus on consolidation, £104,151 11,391,615
Profit sale assets, £2060 . . . . 11,393,675
Unexplained additions, £113,572.. 11,507,247
’57 2,131,949 15,750 124 p.c. =1,219,144 12,404,302
To staff fund, £75,000 .. ..12,329,302
Profit sale assets, £l3BO . . .. 12,330,682
Net unexpl’d additions, £250,877 12,581,559
’5B 2,135,966 15,750 124 p.c. =1,219,144 13,482,631
To staff fund, £50,000 . . . . 13,432,631
Profit sale assets, £2212 . . . . 13,434,843
Net unexpl’d additions, £498,478 13,933,321
’59 3,284,938 15,750 124 p.c. =1,219,144 15,983,365
To staff fund, £50,000 .. .. 15,933,365
* Subject to intangibles written-off in 1957 against
a revaluation reserve created for that purpose,
f Deducting outside interests in profits and reserves.
This shows consolidated net profit up
£ 1,148,972 at £3,284,938 —a most re-
markable achievement even for a giant
like A.C.I.
The earning-rate on ords. (after pay-
ing pref.-divs.) jumped from 21.4 p.c. to
32.9 p.c., compared with 22.9 p.c. in
1957 and 25.9 p.c. in 1956.
Div.-rate remained steady at 12j p.c.
(unchanged since 1955), including a 24
p.c. bonus, and absorbed £1,219,144
(plus £15,750 for the prefs.). Reserves
received and benefited by
£2212 profit on sales of fixed assets, but
were reduced by £50,000 transferred to
staff fund.
Demand for various types of glass
containers (produced by subsidiaries,
Australian Glass Manufacturers Co.
Pty. and Queensland Glass Manufac-
turers Co. Pty.) showed a marked in-
crease. A.C.I. Fibre Packages Pty.,
manufacturer of corrugated paper and
cartons, had another successful year.
Results in the plastics field were a bit
disappointing, and considerable re-
planning and reorganisation was carried
out in A.C.I. Plastics Pty., with a lot
of new plant installed during the year.
Production and sales of Laminex Pty.
were satisfactory. Sales of Redondo
ceramic wall-tiles continued to improve.
The wider range of production from
the co.’s various N.Z. plants had offset
a reduction in sales of glass containers,
largely caused by a decline in demand
for beverages which had followed a big
increase in excise-duty.
A.C.I. continued its policy of quietly
taking-out considerable sums from its
inner reserves. Last year net undis-
closed additions to reserves totalled
£498,478. Over the last six years this
private kitty has disgorged £1,550,956.
With reserves (including £539,377 pro-
vision for contingencies) disclosed at
£15,933,365 (up £2,500,734), paid capital
remained unchanged at £9,928,149 at
balance-date:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1957*. 1958. 1959.
£ £ £
Paid capital . . 9,928,149 9,928,149 9,928,149
Reserves . . . . 12,329,302 13,432,031 15,933,365
Outside interests* 164,519 178,366 262,765
Mortgages . . 261,529 261,529 249,075
Sundry creditors.. 3,817,436 3,356,205 3,006,217
Staff fund . . 275,000 274,600 27,4,200
Inter-co. balancef 272,054 60,188
Sundry provisions 4,288,453 4,566,200 5,064,639
Final divs. . . 731,487 731,487 731,467
32,067,929 32,789,355 35,449,897
Freehold .. ~ 7,093,420 7,187,267 7,645,950
Plant, etc. .. 7,480,764 6,599,149 7,417,684
Shares, etc. .. 1,851,200 1,973,626 1,937,920
Stocks . . . . 10,775,169 8,710,538 9,147,830
Debtors .. .. 4,211,988 4,648,336 3,748,474
Bonds, cash, etc.. . 655,388 3,670,439 5,536,225
Jnter-co. balancef 15,814
32,067,929 32,789,355 35,449,897
* Including proportion reserves, f Due to differences
in balance-date.
Outside interests increased by £84,399
to £262,765. Sundry creditors dropped
by £349,988 to £3,006,217.
The new sundry provisions item com-
prises £4,109,627 provision for tax,
£718,869 for repairs to glass-melting
furnaces (not included in the reserves)
and £236,143 set aside for long-service


A. L. NEYITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Life Building,
207 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 312761 (4 Lines) P.O. Box No. 1887 W
leave. In previous years the provision
for furnace-repairs was included with the
creditors.
Freehold rose by £458,683 to
£7,645,950 and plant by £818,535 to
£7,417,684, bringing visible capital ex-
penditure to £3,068,989. Debtors fell by
£899,862 to £3,748.474. Stocks rose by
£437,292 to £9,147,830. Holdings of
bonds and cash showed $ very substantial
rise (by £1,865,786 to £5,536,225).
Working - capital appeared adequate
at £9,371,800. When the books were
closed, net tangible asset-backing
worked-out at £2 11s. 7d. for the f.-p.
£1 ords. on the consolidated figures.
A new tumbler - making machine,
bought from the U.S.A., is now in opera-
tion at the subsidiary Crown Crystal
Glass Pty. in Sydney. A completely new
plant is nearing, completion at Spots-
wood (Vic.). In Melbourne a large pro-
ject is under construction to facilitate
bulk-handling of raw materials, and new
warehouses and office premises are about
to be built in Perth and Brisbane.
The current financial year “has opened
reasonably well.” Already it has featured
a major financial development. In
October, 1959, the co. decided to
capitalise £1,663,325 of the £1,958,096
share-premiums reserve. The co.
declared a one-for-six bonus-issue to ord.
shareholders, bringing paid-up capital to
£11,591,474 (including £175,000 9 p.c.
prefs.). n
Since the bonus-issue the shades have
settled down at 71s. 9d., yielding 3.5 p.c.
on the basis of the 12} p.c. div.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.
Present prospects for wool are good.
-*■ Directors of Winchcombe, Carson,
Ltd., 1 are optimistic of the current season.
The co., wary of a possible takeover
bid, made a one-for-four bonus-issue
in October, and at the same time pre-
dicted continuance of 10 p.c. div.-levels
on enlarged capital.
It now seems certain that Australia’s
1959-60 woolclip will be a record. The
quantity of wool to be received into
brokers’ stores is put at 4,963,000 bales.
This season’s sales opened strongly at
about p.c. above June closing-levels.
But since then prices have tended to
level-off. For the four months to Octo-
ber 31, greasy averaged 59d. a pound,-
compared with 46.3 d. during the same
period of 1958-59.
The bonus-issue was the first of its
kind in 30 years, but shareholders have
no cause to complain. Winchcombe,
Carson is one of the largest woolbrokers
on the Sydney market, and, with its
associated pastoral finance, merchandis-
ing and agency activities, has made sub-
stantial progress over the last decade.
Shareholders have participated in this
progress, and in large, part have supplied
the funds needed to finance expansion.
Cash-issues were made in 1951, 1955 and
1956, carrying premiums of 50 p.c., 25
p.c. and 25 p.c. respectively, and last
January the co. raised £500,000 with a
three-for-ten issue at par. Since 1948
paid capital has jumped from £550,000 to
£2,708,334 (£1,667,667 at balance-date).
At its lowest register in 10 years, the
average overall price of wool last season
fell 22 p.c. below that of the preceding
year, and total realisations were lower
at £295.7 million (£337.8. million in
1957-58). Fortunately, however, the
effect was partly offset by the greatest
clip ever shorn in Australia. Winch-
combe, Carson, operating in N.S.W. and
Queensland, sold 341,258 bales (up
32,848 bales). The co. topped the auction
lists in Sydney for the forty-seventh occa-
sion and for the sixteenth successive
season in Newcastle ; also retained the
third-highest position in Brisbane. A
growing demand for Australian beef on
the U.S. market—as a result of negotia-
tions with the U.K., which gave Aus-
tralia unrestricted licence to export lower
grades of beef —lifted demand and prices
for beef-cattle. Livestock sales were
satisfactory, the following table showing
sales of wool, sheep and cattle over the
past seven years:
Wool
(Bales). Sheep.* Cattle.*
1953 . . .. 286,684 338,330 37,292
1954 .. .. 300,206 384,335 35,664
1955 .. .. 298,399 3i9,106 35,664
1956 .. .. 310,946 246,672 33,479
1957 .. .. 355,340 253,052 38,498
1958 . . . . 308,410 285,788 32,254
1959 . . . . 341,258 325,336 34,068
* Metropolitan areas Sydney, Newcastle and Brisbane
only.
A higher turnover in station - produce
also helped to swell income. Machinery
sales and general merchandising im-
proved, and good progress was made in
the stud-stock department. Property-
sales increased, and the recent, heavier
demand for good, productive and diversi-
fied properties gives sound reason for
optimism.
Profits, depending largely on wool,
instead of falling, as might have been
expected, rose slightly:
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1950.. 111,411 10 p.c.= 60,000 51,411 677,845
1951.. 183,927 „ „ 99,231 84,696 762,541
Share premiums, £lOO,OOO .. .. 862,541
1952.. 142,959 10 p.c.= 90,000 52,959 915,500
1953.. 175,979 10 „ ~100,000 75,979 991,479
Tax overprovided, £30,000 .. ..1,021,479
1954.. 211,475 12J p.c.= 125,000 86,475 1,107,954
Share premiums, £62,500 .. ..1,170,454
1955.. 205,079 121 p.c.= 132,813 72,266 1,242,720
1956.. 200,418 111,, ~140,625 59,793 1,302,513
Share premiums, £10,707 . . . . 1,313,220
1957.. 226,408 121 p.c.= 156,250 70,158 1,383,378
Share premiums, £93,460 .. . . 1,476,838
1958.. 201,538 10 p.c.= 166,666 34,872 1,511,710
Assets revalued, £1,213,650 .. .. 2,725,360
Provisions no longer required,
£1,008,631 3,733,991
Capital profits, £36,090 .. ..3,770,081
1959.. 203,313 10 p.c.= 191,666 11,647 3,781,728
Final figures were struck after writing-
off £36,076 (down £1831) for deprecia-
tion and £130,000 (previous year’s pro-
vision not given) for taxation and are
equivalent to a return on share capital
of 10.6 p.c. (average), as compared with
12.1 p.c. (average), 18.1 p.c. (average)
and 16 p.c. back to 1956. Dividends
took £191,666 (up £25,000), and at 10
p.c. brought the average rate for the last
ten years to 11.1 p.c.
The overall increase in reserves for the
year was considerably greater than the
£11,647 of undistributed profits, and at
balance date had more than doubled the
previous year’s aggregate £1,553,693:
1957. 1958. 1959.
Capital .. £1,292,827* £1,066,667 £2,166,667
Reserves . . 1,425,361* 1,553,693 3,781,728
Overdraft . . 1,255,327 2,379,210 694,706
Creditors, etc. . . 2,881,299 1,840,399 2,211,246
Final div. .. 93,750 83,333 125,000
£6,948,564 £7,523,302 £8,979,347
Freeholds .. 1,203,991 1,343,890 2,902,157
Plant .. 201,669 191,439 168,446
Investments .. 7,755 6,505 11,627
Stocks . . 342,572 323,610 294,893
Advances, etc. .. 5,150,594 5,615,875 5,602,224
Goodwill . . 41,983 41,983
£6,948,564 £7,523,302 £8,979,347
* Includes application money and premiums relating
to shares allotted in the current term.
The main contributory factor to the
increase was a £1,213,650 revaluation of
properties and buildings in Sydney, Bris-
bane and Newcastle (headquarters of
Winchcombe, Carson are situate in
Sydney ; the co. has 16 branches in
Queensland and 15 branches in central
and northern N.S.W.). Together with
certain acquisitions, the revaluation
lifted book-values of freeholds from
£1,343,890 to £2,902,157 (up £1,558,267),
and at the same time provided the source
from which the co.’s recent bonus-issue
derived —“a revaluation and writing-up
on a conservative basis supported by
appropriate valuations has been made.”
In addition, amounts set aside for
depreciation of the buildings affected
(that is, the buildings subjected to the
revaluation) and now no longer required,
together with provisions created in the
past against loss on advances, no longer
deemed necessary, raised reserves a
further £1,008,631. And, finally, sundry
profits and credits arising from capital
transactions, £36,090, brought the
balance-sheet figure to £3,781,728.
Movements in current liabilities were
spectacular, especially the reduction in
the overdraft. Theoretical working-
capital leapt £1,229,622 to £2,866,165,
helped by the introduction of new
capital during the year. The overdraft
fell to £694,706 (down £.1,684,504).
Creditors, etc., rose £370,847 to
£2,211,246. Stocks and advances both
dropped, the one down £28,717 at
£294,893, the other down £13,651 at
£5,602,224.
Wool prices have failed to substantiate
their initial promise, but are still well
up on 1958-59. If present price-levels
continue, Winchcombe, Carson should
increase profits and, at the same time,,
endorse directors’ hopes of a 10 p.c. div.
Last week, on ’Change, Winchcombe,
Carson’s 20s. ords. fetched 335. 9d. A
parcel bought at this price would yield


ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. FF3931.
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
MANUFACTURERS (N.S.W.) FINANCE CO.
INDEPENDENTLY GUARANTEED INVESTMENT
FIXED DEPOSIT NOTES EARN . .
fL
m
j
r
%
10% for 3 years
9% for 2 years
8% for 1 year
BASED ON THE SECURITY OF
CAREFULLY SELECTED REAL
ESTATE INVESTMENTS.
The repayment of principal and
interest is INDEPENDENTLY
GUARANTEED by an Indem-
nity Co. that issues a policy to
each depositor
Interest is paid quarterly. Tlie
original sum deposited is returned
in full at the end of the term
nominated. The depositor has
tiie right of withdrawal of capital
in an EMERGENCY.
MANUFACTURERS (N.S.W.)
FINANCE CO.
2nd Floor, Northern
House, 13/15 O Con-
nell Street, Sydney.
Telephone 8W2661
(10 lines).
Mail this
coupon for
full details
Ml 19
To: Manufacturers (N.S.W.) Finance
Co., Box 4790, G.P.0.. Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
8.2/12
the buyer 5.9 p.c. from a 10
p.c. div. Net tangible asset-
backing is 555. a share.
Gerrard Co. of A/sia, Ltd.
Incorporated in 1951 —to
acquire the capital of the
then 32-year-old Gerrard Wire
Tying Machine Co„ Pty.—
Gerrard Co. of Aust., Ltd.,
thenceforth showed rapid pro-
gress. In less than a decade,
profits have risen almost six-
fold, ord. capital has more
than doubled (from £300,000 to
£750,000), and visible reserves
have assumed significant pro-
portions.
Such growth has afforded
shareholders opportunities to
increase their equity interest,
and the co.’s overall expansion
has, for the most part, been
financed through exercise of
this privilege. In 1955, the co.
offered shareholders 200,000
ords. at par, one-for-three. In
1957 it issued to nominees of
Melbourne sharebroker lan
Potter and Co. 200,000 ords. at
a premium of ss. 3d. a share ;
and in the following year it
offered shareholders 500,000
ords. at par, one-for-two. Ord.
capital as a result rose to its
present £750,000 —there are,
in addition, 120,000 £1 5 p.c.
cumulative preference shares.
But quick growth and need
for funds have precluded liberal
div. hand-outs ; more than 60
p.c. of profits earned have been
reinvested in the business. Until
last year and since 1955, divs.
had been held at 10 p.c. ; prior
to 1955 and back to 1952, rates
were 8 p.c., 7 p.c. and 6 p.c.
respectively. Latest distribu-
tion included a 2 p.c. bonus (to
mark Gerrard’s fortieth year of
operation in Australia), and
made the highest hand-out to
date, 12 p.c.
Today Gerrard controls a
network of factories and offices
in all States of the Common-
wealth as well as in N.Z.
Manufacturer of machinery,
tools, wire and metal products,
tensional strapping-systems and
packaging-materials and requi-
sites, Gerrard added to its
various activities in 1957 by
purchase of the Brisbane chain-
maker, Bennett Chain Co. Pty.,
and a few months later
extended its sphere of opera-
tions to take-over Fielding
Springs Pty., a Melbourne-
based spring-manufacturer and
metal-presser.
Over the year to June 30 last,
the (undisclosed) turnover of
the Gerrard subsidiaries sur-
passed that of the previous
term. Good export fruit-crops
from several States, a generally
high level of production in
secondary industries, and, to a
lesser extent, import-restric-
tions, all helped to swell
demand for the group-products.
Pre-tax earnings rose £33,983
to £317,643 after allowing an
extra £11,437 for depreciation
(£64,454), the tax provision, in
line with earnings at £126,734
(up £12,234), leaving net profit
£21,749 stronger at £190,909:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
—Dividends— Re-
Jne., Profit. Pref. — s serves.*
5 p.c.
£ £ p.c. £ £
’55.. 91,890 6000 10 = 30,000 189,121
Exchange adjustment, £2400 191,521
Share-issue expenses, £966. . 190,555
’56..402,100 6000 10 = 35,833 250,822
Exchange adjustment, £4BOO 255,622
Share-issue expenses, £3966 251,656
Share-premiums, £52,500.. 304,156
Less increase in intangibles,
£38,368 265,788
Unexpl’d reduction, £4OOO 261,788
’57..130,743 6000 10 = 50,000 336,531
Share-issue expenses, £923 335,608
Exchange adjustment, £4BOO. . 340,408
Loss, sale assets, £5238 .. 335,170
Less added intangibles,
£40,791 294,379
’58..169,160 6000 10 = 59,375 398,164
Exchange adjustment, £7200 405,364
Tax overprovided, w/back,
£16,111 421,475
Loss, sale assets, £699 . . 420,776
Less added intangibles,
£lOOO 419,776
’59..190,909. 6000 12 = 90,000 514,685
* After deducting intangibles, £235,742
at 30/6/’59.
Dividends took £96,000.
Reserves, which were augmen-
ted by tax overprovided in the
previous year, £16,111, and now
written-back, and exchange
adjustments, £7,200, rose
steeply to £514,685 (up
£116,521). Profits easily
covered divs., the ord. earning-
rate for the year working-out,
after deducting pref. entitle-
ments, at 24.7 p.c., compared
with 27.4 p.c. (on average
capital), 24.9 p.c. and 26.8 p.c.
back to 1956.
Balance-sheet figures show
some hefty movements. The
amount owing under mortgage
on freeholds increased by
£229,775 (now £295,546). Pro-
ceeds were applied to the
acquisition of buildings, plant
and machinery—substantial
additions were made in the
spring division —and to increase
working-capital. Book-values,
of freehold and plant reflect
the heavy investment channel-
led during the term to these
assets. The one rose £52,066 to
£464.587, the other £122,037 to
£715,339:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1958. 2959.
Pref £120,000 £120,000
Ord 688,794 750,000
Reserves .. 398,164 514,685
Mortgage . . 65,771 295,546
Overdraft .. 150,440 36,572
Creditors, etc.* 320,041 191,909
Provision taxation 131,951
Final div. -.. 33,250 52,500
£3,774,460 £2,093,163
Freeholds . . 412,521 464,587
Plant . . 593,302 715,339
Shares other cos. 6,072 6,072
Stock . . 495,476 570,087
Debtors . . 267,002 336,973
Cash, bonds, etc. 87 105
£1,774,460 £2,093,163
* Includes provision for taxation until
and including 1958.
By the end of the year
liquidity had improved con-
siderably. Theoretical working-
capital advanced from £260,834
to £494,233 (up £233,399).
Greater business activity neces-
sitated heavier stock commit-
ments, and at the same time
increased debits in the sales-
ledger.
Sales figures for the current
term show a decided upward
trend, and subsidiaries are
working at some pressure to
satisfy demand. With industrial
and commercial expansion
gathering pace Gerrards can
look forward to a record profit
this year.
The co.’s potential has not
escaped the market. The 10s.
ords. recently fetched 365. At
this price the 10 p.c. div. would
yield 2.8. p.c. (a 12 p.c. div.
would yield 3.3 p.c.). The £1
prefs. were last quoted at 16s.
3d. to return 6.2. p.c. Net
tangibles bulk solid ; for the
prefs. £ll 10s. 9d., for the ords.
16s. lOd.
Swam Portland Cement
r T' l His Westralian cement-pro-
ducer (sharing the W.A.
market with Cockburn
Cement Pty.) has been steadily
edging-up its profits since 1956.
Home-building did not pick-
up much in W.A., but during


mtmee
(INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA UNDER THE COMPANIES ACT 1934 52)
in which 40% of the capital is owned by
THE BANK OF ADELAIDE
mfi
WY/Y
4 per
per annum
Y/Y>
YEARS
5/
T
O per annum
and
YEARS
Applications will be accepted for investment of £5O or any multiple thereof
in any or all of the currencies. Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
reserves the right to repay earlier. For conditions of repayment, including
premiums, see the prospectus.
Applications for Debenture Stock can be accepted
only on the printed form attached to the prospec-
tus. Copies of the full prospectus obtainable
from:—
OFFICES OF THE BANK OF ADELAIDE
OFFICES OF FINANCE CORPORATION OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGES
UNDERWRITTEN BY THE ANGLO-AUSTRALIAN CORPORATION PTY. LTD.
the last year Swan expanded
its sales of hydrated lime to
N.T. and S.A. A new depot in
Melbourne indicates an
improvement in the Victorian
market, but sales of lime in the
co.’s home State were a bit dis-
appointing.
However, Swan seems
confident and raised its div.-
rate from 10 p.c. to 12| p.c. The
year ended June 30, 1959,
resulted in a net profit of
£55,409 (up £2759), after pro-
viding £45,233 (up £3653) for
depreciation and paying some
taxation, as well as providing
£15,500 for the same item:
Re-
Jne. Profit. serves.
30. £ £ £
Profit sale assets, £534 .. 222,992
’55..112,347 174 p.c. = 60,808 274,531
Profit sale assets, £397 . . 274,928
’56.. 68,382 10 p.c. = 34,748 308,562
Profit sale assets, £597 .. 309,159
’57.. 38,840 10 p.c. = 34,748 313,251
To long-service leave pro-
vision, £8369 . . . , 304,882
Loss sale assets, £6715 .. 298,167
’58.. 52,650 10 p.c. = 34,748 316,069
Profit sale assets, £lB6 .. 316,255
Tax overprovision, £10,679 326,934
’59.. 55,409 12 J p.c. = 43,435 338,908
The earning-rate was 15.9 p.c.
(15.8 p.c. in 1958).
The only significant balance-
sheet movement was a £41,838
increase in investments. Work-
ing-capital increased by £44,874
to £169,215:
Swan Portland Cement Co., Ltd.
1958. 1959.
Paid capital .. £317,474 £347,474
Reserves .. ~ 316,069 338,90 S
Loans .. .. 95,000 96,250
Creditors . . .. 33,641 29,200
Tax provision .. 19,338 15,500
Provision for long-
service leave . . 8,369 8,775
Final dividends 17,374 26,061
£837,265 £862,168
I.and, buildings, plant 634,202 613,417
Debentures, shares.. 20,000 61,838
Stocks .. .. 121,878 119,094
Debtors .. ' 37,485 40,278
Cash, etc. .. .. 23,700 27,541
£837,265 £862,168
The 20s. ords. were backed by
£1 19s. sd. of net tangibles
each and brought 355. 6d.,
returning a high 7.1 p.c. on the
basis of the 124 p.c. div.
Ravensthorpe Copper
T\isappointingly low grade
of ore treated, with a poor
output of copper-concentrates,
resulted in another loss for the
year ended June 30, 1959.
Registered as Western
Uranium, N.L., in 1954, the
co. took-over the old Elverdon
mine at Ravensthorpe, W.A.,
in the following year. The
name was changed to Ravens-
thorpe Copper Mines, N.L., in
September, 1956. Beset by
many difficulties, the co. has
yet to show a profit in its
accounts.
No exploratory work was
done during the year under
review. Mine - development
(driving, winzing, rising and
cross-cutting) totalled 2183 ft.
(up 289 ft.). In addition, 1056 ft.
of stope - preparation was
carried - out. No surface
diamond-drilling was in pro-
gress, but 18 lateral holes,
totalling 908 ft., were drilled
from underground openings,
to assist current development.
Ore broken during the year
amounted to 59,502 tons (up
17,794 tons). This consisted
of 7513 tons from develop-
ment, 2316 tons from stope-
preparation and 49,673 tons
from stoping.
During the year 58,832 tons
of ore (up 5827 tons) were
milled for the production of
4175 tons of concentrates (up
1375 tons).
Mill-heads averaged 2 p.c.
copper (up 0.57 p.c.) and tail-
ings 0.10 p.c., giving an overall
extraction of 94.4 p.c. (in
1957-58, 89 p.c.). The con-
centrate * grade averaged 24.94
p.c. copper, 6.91, dwt.-ton of
gold and 2.08 oz.-ton of silver.
Strake-concentrates, totalling
5 tons, containing 2730 z. of
gold (down 50z.) and 5210 z.
of silver, were also produced.
Shipments to smelters in
Japan and Australia continued
through the port of Esperance.
Working-costs (excluding
development redemption) were
645. 4d. a ton.
Capital expenditure for the
year was £39,587 (up £5565).
Gross revenue from mine-
operations was £129,911 higher
at £255,375. Total expendi-
ture went up by £64,435 to
£283,092 (including £37,045
depreciation provision), result-
ing in a net loss of £27,717.
The loss incurred in the pre-
vious year was £93,193.
Accumulated losses total.
£133,422.
The financial position, as
shown by the balance-sheet,
continues to be tight. Current
liabilities at £163,775 (up
£73,778) were more than double
current assets at £74,647 (up
£20,159). Bank overdraft at
£93,314 was uncomfortably
close to the £lOO,OOO guaranteed
by the W.A. Government.
Fixed assets figured at
£360,802, mine - development
at £114,221, forward-develop-
ment and ore-breaking expendi-
ture at £53.388 and intangibles
at £283,607.
Deferred liabilities were
slightly lower at £108,500. At
balance-date paid capital was
unchanged at £747,812, includ-
ing 1,543,750 10s. contribs.
paid to 7s. Since then it has
been necessary to call-up
another Is. each on the
contribs., bringing them up to
Bs. a unit paid.
America's copper-shortage,
resulting in higher prices, may
eventually help the co. to show
a profit. With almost no
copper available in Europe,
and many U.S. copper-using
industrial producers moving
back into production, copper-
prices touched 40 cents (up
7 cents) a pound on the
American market.
In Melbourne Ravensthorpe
contrib. ords. are selling at 3s.
7d. a 10s. unit (paid to Bs.).


YOU WILL BE WELCOME
at the
BOWEN CENTENARY CELEBRATIONS
October 16, 1959, to April 12, 1961
CONTINUOUS PROGRAMME OF EVENTS
Write
Dr. P. R. Delamothe, 0.8. E., Bowen, N.Q.,
for details.
36in.
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
HThe astonishing rise in value
of Stock Exchange securi-
ties since the election has made
investment a household-word.
Popular daily papers have
introduced financial supple-
ments, and some of the unit-
trust companies have under-
taken expensive advertising-
campaigns, making block-
offers that have been heavily
oversubscribed.
Legislation is pending 10
protect the small investor
against the raising of money
by irresponsible or unsound
companies. This has been
brought to a head by the State
Building Society affair. Mean-
while, the unit-trusts are form-
ing an association.
The felicity of this desirable
action is somewhat marred by
lack of unanimity, since the
doyen of the movement refuses
to join, chiefly on the grounds
that it considers (1) that the
association is shaping itself for
the benefit of the promoters
rather than for the unit-holders,
and (2) that block-issues are
unnecessary and theoretically
unsound. Naturally, the other
companies disagree, arguing
that the objector is ultra-con-
servative and that block-issues,
while not raising money for
a specific purpose (as, for
instance, with a “rights” issue),
are both desirable and useful
because of their concentrated
effect.
This divergence of opinion
apart, it is clear that the United
Kingdom is behind Australia in
providing facilities for the
small investor. Although the
unit-trusts have introduced
several innovations (among
them are savings schemes, link-
ups with life-offices, selective
investment and a trust entirely
devoted to Commonwealth
stocks) they can as yet offer
neither the service nor the
variety of flotations that the
Australian companies extend.
Futures on Parade
The wool-futures market is
keen to make its activities better
known, and recently it invited
London correspondents of the
Australian press to meet the
chairman and floor-members.
This occasion was essentially
intimate and unpretentious.
Filing-cabinets had to serve as
cloakroom, and the general
office where the chairman, Mr.
R. P. Fawcett, received his
guests, was an alfresco bar with
imported waiters, while in the
adjoining room, the futures
market, business went on as
usual. ""
All might have wished that
the topic in common had been
more comprehensible than 64’s
B-quality Merino wool-tops
(although The Bulletin repre-
sentative’s Bradford origin
helped towards at least a partial
understanding), but the diffi-
culty of explaining the techni-
calities troubled neither Mr.
Fawcett nor the floor-members
who mingled with the journa-
lists.
The market was active, with
some excitability over bidding,
and the telephone-boxes on two
sides of the floor reminded one
of the House of Commons at
Question Time. Blackboards
recorded prices at other futures-
markets—New York, Antwerp
and Roubaix. The bustle was
impressive, but confusing to the
spectator.
Mr. Fawcett gave several
reasons why he thought it was
preferable for the market to
be in London and not in
Sydney or Melbourne, but
accepted that, in time, Aus-
tralia would have its own
wool-futures market. (Appar-
ently time has crept-up on him
rather suddenly, as it turns
out!) The growth in trading
since its inception in 1953 is
remarkable, being sixfold. At
first they had to break down
the conservatism and suspicion
of Bradford wool-merchants
who now, it would seem, are in
favor of the market.
The intended high-spot of the
morning was something of an
anticlimax, for the chairman’s
mooted announcement of the
market’s first representative in
Australia could not be made,
as the person chosen had
asked for a few days more “to
think about it.”
Belated Triumphs
“Rollo” (Strand Theatre) is
an adaptation, by Felicity
Douglas, of a French play by
Marcel Achard, an Academie
franqaise member whose first
play was produced in 1924.
The original is in its fourth
year, and is the author’s
greatest success. Either M.
Achard has exceptional stay-
ing-power or Parisian audi-
ences have stable tastes. Such
a parallel is inconceivable in
London, where, by comparison,
audiences are fickle and rest-
less for novelty. v
This play is a light comedy
which seesaws between incon-
sequential naivete and Sagan-
like sophistication, but the
pivot is very close to real life.
The essence of it is the funda-
mental truth that human nature
doesn’t change: if two people’s
lives are closely linked and
one is weaker in character than
the other the stronger will
always prevail.
Here they are two men,
once school-friends. Leon Rollo
(aptly nicknamed “Potato”) is
unworldly, scatterbrained and
a sponger. The other, Noel
Carradine, is a suave philan-
derer and man-of-the-world.
Rollo harbors a lifelong resent-
ment against Carradine, who
has consistently got the better
of him in all pursuits, from
women to money. Carradine
humors him, never refuses him
loans and, by apparently giv-
ing way, the further asserts his
dominance.
When Rollo discovers that
his forward young adopted
daughter is having an affair
with Carradine the initial
shock soon evaporates with the
realisation that, at long last,
he has the other in his power.
But, poor fool, he has neither
the wits nor the personality to
exploit the situation, and,
although he is fortuitously and
materially enriched, he sub-
sides into inglorious failure.
In an amusing and genuinely
touching third act the author
ingeniously brings together the
five characters (the other two
are the wives) under one roof
and deftly resolves his moral.
Frank Hauser’s production
is neat but superficial, and the
acting, with one exception, is
little above repertory standard.
The exception is Leo McKern,
who, as Rollo, carries the play
on his very broad shoulders.
Nature never intended Mc-
Kern to be a classical actor.
He hasn’t the face, the
physique or even the voice. Yet
at heart he remains the classi-
cal actor he became so trium-
phantly at the Old Vic. He is
a natural, gifted comedian,
but never once steps out of
character, never throws an
out-of-place grimace and never
steals a scene. His gamut of
emotion within the confines of
the part is sheer artistry and
sheer delight.
Although a familiar and
admired actor on the London
stage for several years, Mc-
Kern has been rather unlucky
in his choice of plays. The
star billing he now has is
richly deserved.


FEDRAL CAPITAL
JUGGLERY
Memoirs of a
Pioneer Pressman
(Abridged from a book to be published later)
By B. S. BAXTER COOK
(Founder of the Australian Journalists’ Association and No. 1 A.J.A. Gold Medallist)
I have referred earlier to
the part played by Sir
Edmund Barton in the
Federal movement. Men-
tion must be made, however,
of the grand old Australian
statesman Sir Henry Parkes,
who did Trojan work in the
earlier stages.
At a banquet in Melbourne
in 1890 to celebrate the in-
auguration of the Federal
movement, Mr. James Service
(Vic.) pointed out that the
tariff question was a lion in
the path, N.S.W. having a
free-trade policy and Victoria
being committed to protection.
Sir Henry Parkes then made
use of the phrase that became
historic: “But a crimson
thread of kinship runs through
us all.”
He added: “We desire to
enter upon this work of
Federation without making
any condition to the advan-
tage of ourselves, without any
stipulation whatever, with a
perfect preparedness to leave
the proposed convention free
to devise its own scheme....
I think an overwhelming
majority of my countrymen
will approve of the grand step
.... of uniting all the colonies
under one form of beneficient
government, and under one
flag.”
This admirable national
conception was shamelessly
repudiated by other N.S.W.
leaders in later years. A bill
to establish the Common-
wealth of Australia had been
framed and adopted at a
Federal Convention in Sydney.
When put to a vote of the
electors of Australia, it was
approved by a big overall
majority. But some of the
leading public men in N.S.W.
had campaigned against the
bill, with the result that,
although there was a majority
in N.S.W. in its favor, this
was too small to comply with
a special legal enactment of
that State.
In 1899 a conference of the
Premiers of the six colonies
was held in Melbourne. At
the instance of Mr. G. H.
Reid, the then Premier of
N.S.W., an amendment was
inserted that the Federal capi-
tal must be in N.S.W., but
this was modified by a further
amendment insisted upon by
the Premiers of the other
States, that the capital should
not be within 100 miles of
Sydney. At a second poll the
majority in N.S.W. was more
than quadrupled, and the bill
was approved.
One of the provisions was
[The Federal Capital Design —A Bulletin Artist Wins First Prize. (Or, anyway, that's how the above Norman
Lindsay cartoon was captioned in The Bulletin of June 6, 1912.)


FELT AND TEXTILES
OF AUSTRALIA
(Incorporated
LIMITED
in New South Wales)
MANUFACTURING ACTIVITIES:
Scouring and carbonising wool.
Combing and dyeing wool tops.
Woollen and worsted yarns and cloths.
Woollen and hair felts.
Felt floor coverings.
Wilton, Axminster and tufted carpets.
Flocks and waddings. •
Plain and printed plastics.
Embroideries and clothing.
Bedding products.
Shoes, slippers and sandals.
CONSOLIDATED SALES:
£34,076,000 —3% lower than 1957/58, due
principally to lower wool prices.
CONSOLIDATED NET PROFIT:
£1,128,874 (£1,078,355 in 1957/58).
Parent Company’s Share of profits —£706,061
(£33,771 more than 1957/58).
Return on Ordinary Capital for 1958/59 —
17% (1957/58 —16%).
DIVIDEND:
Dividend on Ordinary Capital, unchanged at
10%.
SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS:
£15,442,192.
AUSTRALIAN OPERATIONS:
Net Profit (after tax)— £600,573 (£469,066).
40,400,000 lbs. greasy wool were processed
during year equal to 17% of greasy wool pro-
cessed in Australia.
£500,000 Axminster carpet expansion pro-
gramme was started at B.A.C.Mr Pty. Ltd.,
Tottenham, Victoria.
EXTRACTS FROM THE 1959 ANNUAL REPORT
(For year ended June 30, 1959)
Chattanooga Tufted Carpets (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
became a fully-owned subsidiary.
Footwear plants were expanded to meet
increasing demand.
Manufacture of non-woven fabrics will be com-
menced in 1959/60.
New Head Office building was completed at
East Melbourne, Victoria.
Capital Expenditure for year—£B79,so3.
NEW ZEALAND OPERATIONS:
Record Net Profit (after tax)— £A262,olo
(1957/58—£A159,100).
Paid-up Capital of Felt and Textiles of New
Zealand Ltd. was increased by £NZ237,500.
Dividend on Ordinary Shares was increased
from 8% to 10% for year, plus special divi-
dend of 2\%.
Capital Expenditure for year — £A 258,701.
SOUTH AFRICAN OPERATIONS:
Net Profit (after tax) — £A 266,291 (£A450,189
—1957/58).
Dividend on Ordinary Shares was maintained
at 12i%.
Capital Expenditure for year— £A23l,7B6.
NUMBER OF SHAREHOLDERS:
Preference
Ordinary
Total
NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES:
Australia
New Zealand
South Africa <..
Total
2,997
8,317
11,314
5,222
1,501
2,910
9.633


that until a permanent site
had been selected the seat of
government should be tem-
porarily in Melbourne. Early
this century a commission
representing all the States was
appointed to examine possible
sites. It included experts on
water-supply, climate, availa-
bility of building-materials,
living - conditions generally
and other requirements for
the building of a new city in
an area with prospects of
great material expansion.
Unlike other Melbourne
dailies, the Melbourne “Age”
was not enthusiastic about
Federation. It feared that its
dyed-in-the-wool protectionist
policy would be prejudicially
affected; the scheme was
going to cost the taxpayer a
lot of' money which could be
spent in many other ways to
the advantage of the com-
munity ; etc. It treated the
task of finding a suitable site
as a big joke.
TS7ell, after much travelling
** and an exhaustive sur-
vey of many sites, the com-
mission reported in 1904 in
favor of Bombala, a small
town in the Eden-Monaro
country in N.S.W., not far
from the border of Victoria.
That latter fact was suffi-
cient to condemn the site in
the view of N.S.W. members.
They managed to block any
expenditure on public works
there that would have the
effect of confirming the selec-
tion.
Later, a closer inspection of
the Eden-Monaro area re-
sulted in Dalgety being substi-
tuted for Bombala. But the
chicanery of the N.S.W. mem-
bers was not lessened. They
continued their delaying tac-
tics, until at last, after four
years’ underground engineer-
ing, they succeeded in having
Yass-Canberra substituted for
Dalgety.
To unbiased observers, Dal-
gety appeared to be ideal for
the building-up of a new city,
being within the greatest
natural watershed of Austra-
lia, with vast possibilities of
development of natural re-
sources and industrial pro-
gress.
The great Snowy Moun-
tains hydroelectric undertak-
ing was then already in the
offing. That scheme today is
estimated to cost £420,000,000.
It is one of the largest under-
takings of its kind in the
world, and is certainly unpre-
cedented in Australia. It will
harness the tumbling energy
of the rivers that' flow from
the Mount Kosciusko region,
for the production of elec-
tricity and for the diversion
of their waters to the thirsty
inland to expand food-produc-
tion in the irrigation-areas of
the Murray and Murrum-
bidgee Valleys.
This brief reference to the
immense 1 undertaking em-
phasises the colossal mistake
that was made in discarding
Dalgety. The N.S.W. mem-
bers could not fault Dalgety
on the score of general
Buitability. Their principal
objection appeared to be that
it was in the snow country,
but Canberra records showed
that that location could be
even colder. Not so very long
ago it was reported in the
press that Canberra had a
record low temperature of
16.3 at 7.30 a.m. and that the
grass-temperature was 12
degrees. The intense cold
burst water-pipes and froze
car-radiators. Canberra is
certainly a white elephant—
indeed a snow-white elephant.
Canberra is also subject to
severe droughts. Prayers are
often offered-up in the local
churches for rain, the last
occasion I remember being in
December, 1957. The Federal
Capital Sites Commission had
actually rejected the Canberra
area because of its poor water-
supply! Bombala was recom-
mended because of its situa-
tion in the greatest and most
THE TROUBADOR
(Sir Henry Parkes, in one of Phil May’s—and THE
B ULLETIN'S—various opinion-versions of him.)
reliable watershed in Aus-
tralia.
There is no doubt that the
principal objection of the
N.S.W. members was that
Dalgety was too near the Vic-
torian border.
'T'he story of the way in
-* which Dalgety was super-
seded is one of secrecy and
intrigue. While the Federal
Parliament was meeting in
Melbourne the N.S.W. mem-
bers were content to play for
time. They were not very
happy with the temporary seat
of government being in Mel-
bourne, but they had greater
dislike of the prospect of the
permanent seat being at Dal-
gety.
The campaign of delay—
which was carried on for four
years—was accompanied by
intensive lobbying by N.S.W.
members to win-over mem-
bers from other States, par-
ticularly those who were not
in Parliament when Dalgety
was selected in 1904.
It is a pity that Victorian
members were not as unani-
mous in support of Dalgety
as the N.S.W. members who
opposed it. Had they stuck
loyally together, Dalgety
would today be the Federal
Capital.
One of the first indications
of disunity came in 1908,
when Hans Irvine, in the
House of Representatives,
surprised his . Victorian col-
leagues by taking the initiative
in the move to reopen the
capital-sites question. One of
his remarkable reasons for
moving “that a further oppor-
tunity should be afforded of
taking another ballot of mem-
bers” was that “there were so
many conflicting opinions
among members.”
He had apparently fallen
an easy victim to the cunning
propaganda-game that had
been played by N.S.W. mem-
bers. He admitted that he did
not know anything about the
merits of the different sites.
One would have thought that
before a member set about
the task of altering a previous
decision of Parliament he
would have studied the report
and recommendations of the
Capital Sites Commission. He
did not do this. By inference,
he said that the members of
the previous Parliament did
not know what they were
doing when they approved of
Bombala, and, later, Dalgety.
Mr. L. E. Groom, the
Attorney-General, opposed the
proposal to reopen the ques-
tion, contending that the pre-
vious decision of Parliament
was mandatory, and binding


HOPE OF HIGHER
LIVING STAHDARD
“The effect upon our national economy of the upturn
in world trade during the past year has been marked,
and points to the maintenance of our general prosperity/*
said the Chairman of Directors, Mr. H. D. Giddy, at the
Annual Meeting of The National Bank of Australasia
Limited, held in Melbourne on Wednesday, 25th
November.
He continued, “Given reasonable
cost and price stability, a further
improvement iii our real standard
of living couid be expected.”
We have enjoyed reasonably
good seasonal conditions, overseas
capital has continued its inflow,
and higher wool prices and a still
greater work force have been to
our advantage. For the year to
August last the number employed
increased by 52,000 to 2,936,000, as
against an increase of 23,000 for
the previous year.
Export income is estimated to
rise by up to £120m., and Govern-
ment expenditures by £loom.
Rising persona] incomes of wage-
earners and others will add to the
volume of purchasing power in the
hands of the community, and busi-
ness and industry should be more
active in 1959-60 than during
1958-59.
The one unhappy possibility in
what appears otherwise to be a
promising outlook is that we could
pay the price of inflation if we fail
to make our savings and to use
properly our potential afforded by
the unused productive capacity
available.
Ungenerous Criticism of
Banking Policy
At present, said Mr. Giddy, the
Banking System is in a healthy
condition. In September, the
trading banks as a whole showed a
ratio of Australian liquid assets to
deposits of 39%. compared with
just under 37% last year. This
improvement was assisted by the
rise of £lOl millions in deposits
and a small reduction of £l9
millions in advances natural re-
suits of better seasonal conditions
and returns from some primary
industries.
Some criticism has been made of
the spread of the liquid assets in-
vestment following the liquidity
improvement of the trading banks
over the past year, but I wonder
just how much better the 1 critics
would have succeeded in managing
the monetary system had they been
charged with this onerous over-all
responsibility. It would, of course,
be simple to set a policy if one
could accurately forecast the eco-
nomic position months ahead,
taking into account changes in
seasonal conditions and price varia-
tions of major exportable products.
Surely a little patience is the due
of those authorities charged with
the duty of deciding the over-all
banking policy.
Central Bank Support to
Money Market Commended
Further evidence of the trend
towards greater maturity of our
Banking System and financial
structure was provided in Feb-
ruary when the Central Bank de-
cided to support, under certain
conditions, a limited number of
authorised dealers in the develop-
ment of an official short-term
money market. This action is com-
mendable as it places an official
seal upon an activity that was
being developed by private enter-
prise to meet a growing need in
our commercial affairs.
Another interesting step is the
legislation recently introduced into
the Federal Parliament to provide
for the issue of Seasonal Treasury
Notes, and it will be interesting to
watch the result of this innovation
anti the manner in which it is
operated by the authorities.
Private enterprise has also estab-
lished during the past year more
facilities for the provision of long-
term finance.
The developments in our money
market provide expanded oppor-
tunities for many more of our
own people and overseas friends to
have a real stake in our financial
and industrial growth. In conse-
quence, there is a wider sharing of
the profits, and incidentally the
risks, of business generally, as be-
fits our democratic way of life.
True Central Bank Soon
Mr. Giddy stated that for the
first time in the history of the
Commonwealth a true Central
Bank unfettered by ordinary com-
mercial banking responsibilities
will soon be established.
The change in the present struc-
ture of the Commonwealth Bank
is expected to operate from an
early date, and Australia will soon
have a banking structure similar
to those which have proved success-
ful in other democratic countries.
Our Bank will co-operate fully
with the new Commonwealth De-
velopment Bank of Australia,
which will have special responsi-
bilities in providing finance for
certain activities which may not be
readily available under normal
banking practice.
National Bank Figures a
Record
The Chairman drew attention to
the fact that the Balance Sheet
totals, £334 millions, are £2l
millions higher and are an all-time
record.
The year produced an increase of
£l9 millions in deposits and a de-
crease of £7 millions in advances.
Gross earnin.gs were £430.000
higher, but working expenses in-
creased by £436.000. However, a
reduction of £63,000 in taxation
provisions permitted an increase
of £57.000 in net profit, and for the
first time this figure exceeded
£1,000,000.
The relatively small increase in
profit was welcome, but attention
must be drawn to the fact that the
substantial rise in costs exceeded
the increase in gross earnings,
which include higher income from
non-banking investments.
on those charged with the duty
of administering the law.
The debate ranged over
several sittings. Among those
who opposed the proposal was
Hugh Mahon, of W.A. Pre-
facing his remarks by recalling
that he had voted for Dalgety
on the previous occasion, he
insinuated that there had been
devious doings behind the
scenes.
“It is somewhat mysterious,”
Mahon said, “that honorable
members who concurred in
that decision should be found
reversing their vote without
any evidence, so far as I can
discover, to justify their change
of front.”
Tndeed, that was so. There
A was no legitimate reason
given why Dalgety should have
been by-passed. One curious
fact emerged. It appeared that
at one time the N.S.W- State
Government had actually
offered to make available
territory at Bombala, Tumut
or Albury as a site for the
Federal Capital.
It was, perhaps, Sir William
Lyne who used the most extra-
vagant language. He thundered
forth that they would all be
frozen to death if they had to
go to Dalgety, and that he
personally would refuse to sit
in Parliament there.
This was too good an oppor-
tunity for his political
opponent, George Reid, to
miss. He drawled out the hope
that “the honorable member
would not seriously offer the
Opposition such a terrible
temptation to vote for
Dalgety.”
In the House of Representa-
tives of 72 members nine
ballots had to be held before
the final result was achieved.
Eleven sites were nominated.
Several had no chance of being
selected, but each was seriously
proposed by the member of
the electorate in which it was
situated, just as evidence that
he was “looking after the
interests of his constituents”!
In alphabetical order, the
sites nominated in the House
of Representatives were:
Albury, Armidale, Bombala,
Canberra, Dalgety, Lyndhurst,
Lake George, Orange, Tooma,
Tumut, and Yass-Canberra.
In the first ballot Dalgety
got 27 votes, and Yass-Can-
berra 19. It was plain that the
contest would be between these
two sites. As the balloting pro-
ceeded, all but these two sites
dropped out, votes being trans-
ferred to other sites. Voting
for Dalgety and Yass-Canberra
varied as follows:
Yass-
Dalgret.v. Canberra.
Ist Ballot ..27 19
2nd „ .. 26 22
3rd „ .. 28 23
4th „ .. 28 21
sth „ .. 27 22
6th „ .. 27 ,22
7th „ .. 24 24
Bth „ .. 27 31
9th „ .. 33 39
Members who voted for
Yass-Canberra in the final
ballot were from the follow-
ing States-: N.S.W., 24; Vic-
toria, 6 ; Queensland, 5 ; South
Australia, 1 ; Western Aus-
tralia, 0 ; Tasmania, 3.
Those who favored Dalgety
were from: N.S.W., 2 ; Vic-
toria, 15; Queensland, 5,
South Australia, 4; Western
Australia, 5 ; Tasmania, 2.
It will be seen that had the
Victorian members voted as
solidly as the N.S.W. ones, the
site would not have been
changed.
The position could have
been saved in the Senate, a
House of 36 members, but two
Victorian members placed
their judgment against that of
the Capital Sites Commission
and voted for the district which
the commission had discarded.
/"\nly two ballots were needed
in the Senate to settle the
issue, but this was after there
had been a lot of under-
ground manoeuvring. It was
currently reported that Sir
William Lyne helped along the
scheme to swing the vote to
(Continued on page 44)


Shopping Hours and Crime
Laughter and jollity are not usually
associated with the proceedings of
the N.S.W. Industrial Commission,
so it must be assumed that Ernie
O’Dea, secretary of the Shop Assistants’
Union, was as near to earnest as his
Christian-name when he appeared before
that authority seeking a variation in his
union’s award to make provision for the
punishment of certain of his members.
It is unusual for the representative of
a trade-union to ask the court to punish
his members for a breach of an award—
usually it is the employer he wishes to
see penalised. And it must be quite
without precedent for a trade-union
secretary to ask for additional penalties
against his members to be written into
an award. At the present time the whole
trend of industrial - Labor thought is
towards eliminating penalty-clauses (for
workers and unions) from industrial
awards.
O’Dea’s application arose out of the
shopping-hours argument at Queanbeyan,
where many shopkeepers. have, in
defiance of the law, kept open for busi-
ness on recent Friday nights, their plea
being that economic necessity forces
them to do so as otherwise they will
lose business to Canberra, which is only
seven miles away and where Friday-night
shopping is legal.
The variation sought by O’Dea would
have made it an offence for shop-
assistants in Queanbeyan to work after
normal trading-hours or for employers
to require or permit them to do so.
He claimed that what was going on in
Queanbeyan was far more serious than
the act of a trade-union conducting an
illegal strike and that the shopkeepers
were allowing their assistants to aid and
abet them in breaking the law.
Mr. Justice Cook rejected the applica-
tion, saying that Parliament had already
provided under the Shops and Factories
Act penalties for late trading and he
did not think it was the function of
the Industrial Commission to provide
additional penalties. “If the law is
defied, notwithstanding prosecutions, then
it is a matter for Parliament to remedy
the position.”
A Somersault
A lthough O’Dea’s attempt to penalise
some members of his union was
unusual, his eagerness to see them obey
the law is commendable. His outlook
has apparently changed considerably in
the few brief years since the dispute
in Lithgow over Saturday-morning shop-
ping. On that occasion he was urging
his members not to work on Saturday
morning, just as he is now opposing
their working on Friday night. The vital
difference is that whereas he wants the
Queanbeyan men (and girls) punished
for not obeying the law, in the Lithgow
case he urged his members to disobey it.
In fairness to O’Dea, there is behind
his attitude a desire to protect the in-
terests of shop-assistants—to safeguard
them against exploitation. He probably
feels that in threatening the Queanbeyan
members of his union he is acting in
the best interests of the majority of
shop-assistants throughout the State.
But is he really acting in their besf
interests? Or is he merely following a
formula that has been outmoded by
changing years? Nowadays industrial
laws, strictly policed, a 40-hour week
and provision for overtime leave little
scope for exploitation, even if the whole
lelationship between employer and em-
ployee had not changed out of recogni-
tion during this century.
Wartime Legacy
"pRiDAY - night shopping disappeared
1 during the war, and, as far as
N. S. Wales is concerned, successive
Labor Governments have allowed them-
selves to be mesmerised by O'Dea and
like-minded persons at the Trades Hall
into thinking of it as something in-
herently evil —something that must never
again be permitted to blight the life of
New South Wales. Six-o’clock closing
of hotels was also a wartime legacy
(World War I), but public opinion
eventually forced its abandonment.
If there is a strong enough demand
for a return to Friday-night shopping,
it will undoubtedly be eventually
satisfied, O’Dea and his minions
notwithstanding. It is the recogni-
tion of this fact that makes O’Dea
take a firm stand on Queanbeyan’s revolt.
Defeat for his “principle” there, could
mean eventual defeat- throughout the
whole State.
The basic weakness of O’Dea’s case
is that its sole purpose is the convenience
of the workers in the industry. All
other factors have to give way to this,
and all other reasons stem from it. It
is no use for the proprietor of a one-
man shop to argue that since he employs
no labor he should be allowed to stay
open as long as he is willing to do all
the work himself. The stock reply is
that this would give him an unfair
advantage over those who do employ
labor. In the eyes of the Shop Assis-
tants’ Union and the Trades Hall the
cne-man shop probably has no right to
exist, anyway, as it doesn't provide any
employment.
Minister for Labor and Industry J. J.
Maloney says that prosecutions will be
launched against the Queanbeyan law-
breakers. This should mean a harvest
for O'Dea’s union, provided he puts his
snoopers on the job. It is rather strange
that although the Labor movement has
a strong repugnance against pimps and
informers, it sees no shame in encourag-
ing its members to inform on shop-
keepers who transgress the law by after-
hours trading. Interested trade-unions
employ people whose job it is to report
such breaches
-v;
The Comer Shop
HPhe Brigade of Snoopers are seen at
their worsf in their forays against
suburban corner-shops. These indispen-
sable little “general stores,” usually a
husband-and-wife business employing no
labor, are nevertheless subject to the
same restrictive hours as the big city
emporiums.
There are few suburbanites who have
not at some time or other gone to the
side-door of the corner-shop after hours,
with a request for a pound- of butter,
a packet of tea or some other domestic
necessity that has suddenly “run out.”
The shopkeeper who declines to oblige
customers by breaking the law in this
way doesn’t build up a very flourishing
business, and it would be ridiculous to
suggest that anyone (except the magis-
trate in his official capacity and the
union whose funds receive half the fine)
regards the after-hours trader as a
criminal. An unsavory feature of the
whole business is this practice of giving
the trade-union a vested interest in con-
victions, so that its officials are en-
couraged to act as common informers.
Snooping isn’t confined to the Shop
Assistants’ Union. The baker who dares
to bake bread outside the prescribed
hours never knows when the snooper
will be hiding behind the flour-bin ready
to pounce on him and hale him up before
the Beak. The “principle” can be. seen
at its ludicrous worst in the furniture-
trade, where a cabinetmaker may be
spied-on, 'reported and fined for the
heinous offence of working alone in
his own factory in the weekend.
Turn Back the Clock
Tn addition to making Ernie O’Dea turn
a somersault, the Queanbeyan shop-
keepers have also been responsible for
making N.S.W. Labor caucus try to
turn back the clock half-a-century. Last
Wednesday that fast - thinking body
delivered itself of a bright suggestion for
settling the Queanbeyan problem. As
it would be out of step with current
Labor policy to allow late-shopping in
Queanbeyan, and as that town’s diffi-
culties stem from its proximity to late-
shopping Canberra, caucus thinks the
obvious solution is to bring Canberra
into line.
Premier Heffron was therefore in-
structed to write immediately to the
Prime Minister asking him “to abolish
Friday-night shopping in Canberra and
to ensure that the industrial and com-
mercial laws of Canberra conformed
with those of N. S. Wales.”
Where have the Rip Van Winkles of
caucus been during the 50 years that
have passed since N.S.W. ceded the Aus-
tralian Capital Territory to the Com-
monwealth?


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £89,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
start the day right !
m
m
'■"StHC
SPORITNG NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Randwick Centenary
In advance of the big 1960
Melbourne Cup there’s another
racing centenary coming up —
a special event to mark the
centenary of racing at Rand-
wick.
It’s to be staged on the first
day of the 1960 A.J.C. Centen-
ary Autumn Meeting—the
meeting this year concluding on
the Easter weekend. The
special race —the Randwick
Centenary Invitation Stakes: —
will carry prizemoney of
£lO,OOO and a £250 trophy to
the winner; it will be run over
a mile-and-a-half under Quality
Handicap conditions (maxi-
mum weight, 9.5; minimum,
7.5). It’s down for the first
day of the meeting, which will
now be Saturday, April 9. The
Doncaster will be run the
following week, on Easter
Saturday, and the Sydney Cup
on Easter Monday.
The A.J.C. is inviting the
best horses racing in Australia
and New Zealand specially for
the race, the club meeting costs
of freighting. Field will be
limited to 18, and invitations
for horses will be open up to
Monday, March 21.
The A.J.C. committee could
well be right in believing the
Randwick Centenary Invitation
Stakes will provide one of the
best races ever staged in Aus-
tralia.
* * *
Sydney Horses
Delnita, one of T. J. Smith’s
pair of Rosehill winners last
Saturday, had twice finished
second at Randwick, including
her good run in the Gimcrack,
so she had sound enough form
for the Maiden Stakes for two-
year-old fillies. She won as
comfortably as her form and
the odds—s to 2 on —suggested
she would. She certainly
should be able to gallop: she’s
by Nilo (imp.), sire of an
imposing list of winners, among
them Pride of Egypt (V.R.C.
Derby and the two St. Legers),
while her dam, Waterlady,
won the A.J.C. Adrian Knox
Stakes and the V.R.C. Oaks.
Waterlady is by Midstream
(imp.) from Best Wishes by
Agincourt (imp.) from Happy
Returns by Chief Ruler. Del-
nita, who cost the two Dave
Chrystals (father and son)
800gns. as a yearling, earned
£765 in less than one minute,
and there should be more to
follow. -
• • • •
Ulandra, the Smith stable’s
other winner, returned to form
in the November Handicap,
he also being a short-priced
favorite, also ridden by
Schumacher, and also a Nilo.
Taken to the front from mid-
field before turning into the
straight, he made a procession
of it from there on. It was
his first win since last January,
but he hadn’t done much
racing in the meantime. Early
this week intentions were to
start the strongly-built middle-
distance galloper in the S.T.C.
Christmas Cup next Saturday.
Whip Hand, who didn’t beat
a horse home when fancied
for a Rosehill Graduation
Stakes on October 31, cleared
away from 11 opponents at
the same track last Saturday,
beating outsider Long Hop and
favorite Sportscast. A three-
year-old gelding raced by Ezra
Norton, the winner topped
New Zealand yearling-prices
in January, 1958, at 4000gns.
He’s by Faux Tirage (imp.)
from Golden Chime by Golden
Souvenir from the well-
performed New Zealand mare
Kathbella by Beau Pere (imp.).
Early in the new year Aus-
tralian Star may be racing in
America, where he’s owned by
F. R. Rand, jnr., who paid
5000gns. for the colt. By Star
Kingdom (imp.) from Rustling,
Australian Star won at odds-
on Rosehill’s Two-year-old
Maiden for colts and geldings
in race-record time, 55.1 sec.
for the 4} furlongs and 29yds.
It was a first-start win, though
the colt had won barrier-trials
at Randwick and Rosebery in
impressive style. Rustling is
by Delville Wood (imp.) from
So Sweet by Le Grand Due
(Fr.) from Vocal by Thracian.
Endure’s win in the Rosehill
Flying was a tonic for Harry
Tancred, who races the filly
in partnership with his wife,
along with Bill Longworth and
Mrs. Longworth. Harry, who
has been very much off-color,
left the course soon after the
brilliant three-year-old de-
feated another good one of
her age, Front Cover, with
rank outsider Lady Signal
third. N. Sellwood got the
filly quickly into stride, and
after a ding-dong go with
Front Cover she stalled off
that smart gelding to win in
1.11 1/10 —the odd fraction
outside the race-record, which
has stood to the credit of
Stirrup Cup for five years.
Endure was an outstanding
two-year-old, winning the
A.J.C. Gimcrack Stakes by
half-a-dozen lengths. She is to
be set for the important
summer sprints at Randwick,
and on Saturday’s display she
will be hard to beat in any
race at six furlongs. As it
was her first run since last
March McCarten certainly did
a first-rate job in turning her
out so fit. The Carrington
Stakes on December 28 and
the Challenge Stakes on
January 30 seem logical picks
for her.
Count Fall, locally trained,
was the medium of a sub-
stantial plunge in the First
Parramatta Stakes at Rosehill,
but he was no match for
Randwick - trained Taranaki,
ridden by R. Selkrig, who had
the colt close to the lead all
the way and went to the front
soon after reaching the
straight. Count Fall looked a
little on the big side, but he’s
a strongly-built four-year-old,
and should very soon win.
Brilliant Hero (third) should be
worth keeping an eye on for a
Maiden event—he was close
to the tail of the field of 24
runners in the early stages.
Consistent Saydor, also rid-
den by Selkrig, won the Second
Parramatta Stakes, downing
Goldspur in the final half-
furlong, just when the Golden
Hackle five-year-old looked
like seeing the seven furlongs
out. Saydor won a similar
race at Rosehill at his prior
start on October 31.
Having his first Sydney start,
Queensland-bred colt Lion
Hunter, now in Fred Shean’s
stable, showed a fine turn of
speed and lasted long enough
to win the Two-year-old
Maiden for colts and geldings
at the A.J.C.’s midweek Twi-
light Meeting at Randwick.
Related to Sarcherie (Doncaster
and Sydney Cup) and to
Mohican (15 wins, including
the V.R.C. Cantala Stakes),
Lion Hunter is by Jungle King
(imp.) from Goldcourt by
Courtgraft (N.Z.) from
Valenda by Valiard. A solidly-
framed colt, he should continue
the good work at his next run.
Fillies by Pan II (Fr.) finished
first (Minikin) and second
(Tulsa Queen) in the Juvenile
Maiden at the Randwick meet-
ing. Minikin drew No. 1
barrier position and took full
advantage of it. She’s from
Bruvally (a sister to Soho and
to Minnamurra, the dam of
Achilles), by Brueghel (It.)
from Trevally by Moabite
(imp.). Bill Kelso trains her
at Randwick for A. R. Rial.
Oily Hi, comfortable winner
of the Two-year-old Handicap
for .colts and geldings at
Doomben last Saturday, is
trained by Bill Briscoe, who
in his riding days won many
races in Brisbane and Sydney.
The colt is by imported
Oleandrin from Hythe, who’s
by Nilo (imp.) from Ranai by
Nizami (Fr.). Related to
Yeman, Skipton, Wotan, Gaine
Carrington and Beau Vite,
Olli Hi has a sound staying


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. DUESBURY, Deputy
Chairman; ALFRED S. WHITE, A. G, PARKER.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. B. J. LANE, Manager.
’Phone: BU 7401 16/20 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
Missing Friend
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
TO ALMA AMY COLLIER of Sydney in
the State of New South Wales but
whose present whereabouts are unknown.
—TAKE NOTICE that vour Husband
KENNETH STANLEY COLLIER has
commenced an action against you for
the dissolution of Marriage No. 1437 of
1959 on the grounds of your desertion
without just cause for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend this
action you may enter an appearance in
this Registry of the Supreme Court
of Queensland at Brisbane within twenty-
one days from the date of publication
hereof You may obtain without charge
a copy of the Writ of Summons and
Petition from MESSIEURS THYNNE &
MACARTNEY, of 293 Queen Street,
Brisbane, in the State of Queensland
the Town Agents for TONY PRIMROSE
& CO., of Nerang Street, Southport, in
the said State, the Solicitors for the
Plaintiff.—W. G. FOSTER, Second
Deputy Registrar.
background. Brocalba, winner
of the Juvenile for fillies, is by
Orgoglo (imp.) from Sunfast
by Agincourt (imp.).
“Dial FX”: At present off-the-
course s.-p. betting is illegal because
it is morally wrong—it robs the
State of a just tax and makes betting
by the public at large too easy.
When, on December 19, the A.J.C.
(with the Government concurring)
provides s.-p.-betting facilities at
Randwick racecourse through book-
maker Dwyer the immoral aspect
presumably will disappear —the
State (and the A.J.C.) will collect
their dues and only those punters
establishing credit with Mr. Dwyer
will be able to wager per phone
from outside. I’m inclined to
agree with the protesting clergy-
men ; it still looks wrong to me.
Incidentally, the few telephone-lines
secured by the A.J.C. for Mr.
Dwyer would be preliminary—one
visualises the earmarking of many,
many times that number pending
the success or otherwise of the
scheme. But let us suppose that
every Paddock bookmaker applies
for, and gets, a telephone-line.
Would the rake-off to the A.J.C.,
even from off-the-course betting on
that scale, compensate the club for
further losses at the gates? People,
even confirmed punters, can’t be
in two places at once. Anyway,
looking at it democratically, should
a private person (or institution) be
permitted to take the initiative
from the State in deciding an issue
so signficant to the community as
a whole?
* * *
At the Valley
Saturday’s main race at
Moonee Valley was the 10-
furlongs Albion Handicap for
three-year-old fillies. The
winner, Princess Faux, had not
previously raced beyond a
mile, but she showed surprising
stamina to come from fifth
wide-out at the straight-entrance
to win well. She was one of
five New Zealand-bred gal-
lopers to score in the eight-
race programme. For some
time her owner, Gordon
Skuce, has had her for sale,
but the only suitable offers
have come from - Singapore
interests—Skuce has raced a
few horses in Singapore him-
self—and he would like her
to remain in Australia as a
brood mare when her racing
days are over. By Faux Tirage
from Impeccable, she’s still for
sale, but naturally the price
has now gone up a bit.
An unlucky run came to an
end when Woodland Stream
won the 13-furlongs Mount
Alexander Handicap. At his
previous three starts the aged
Midstream gelding had filled
minor placings in the Wood-
end, Ballarat and Bendigo
Cups—and he had raced
unluckily in all of them. Wood-
land Stream’s Sydney owners,
A. J. McSweeney and E. L.
Jurd, sent the gelding to
former jockey Peter Simonds
to train for a jumping-career,
but while he maintains his
present good flat-form his
hurdling debut will be in
abeyance.
The first heat of the Pascoe
Handicap was one of the most
“Well leave nothin to chance — y’ve just got time for
a fistful o’ sleepin-pills.”
unusual betting races seen on
a Melbourne course for many
a day —the two Adelaide fillies
Coronation Belle and Princess
Ursa dominating the betting
to the extent that the third
favorite was at 33 to 1. The
fancied pair duly had the race
to themselves, but the finish
wasn't what most punters
expected. Coronation Belle,
the 4-to-l-on favorite, showed
her customary dash to lead a
couple of lengths into the short
straight, but as soon as the
pressure was applied Princess
Ursa raced past her. Adelaide
rider G. Hope seemed a bit
too sure on the favorite, but,
then, the winner covered the
five furlongs in 1.1, only isec.
outside the track record. N.Z.-
bred, by Faux Tirage from
Ursa, she has now had two
wins and four minor placings
in six starts.
Lady Sybil won the second
Pascoe, and she and Princess
Ursa were sold as consecutive
lots at the Wellington (N.Z.)
yearling-sales last year. They
were cheap fillies, too, Lady
Sybil bringing 325gns. and the
other filly 275gns. Bookmaker
Cyril Doody later gave 500gns.
for Lady Sybil and has no
reason to regret the purchase ;
she had won the Ottawa Stakes
at Flemington before last
Saturday’s win. Minor place-
getters Shamba and Grasse
were bred by their owners,
E. A. Underwood, V.R.C.
committeeman, and Sir Chester
Manifold, V.R.C. chairman. It
was a first placing for both
fillies.
The two heats of the Duna-
lister Highweight sprint both
went to former good sprinters
that most people had written-
off as has-beens —the six-year-
old Proponder, who last won
a race at Caulfield in April,
1958, and Nevana, a racing
grey-beard, rising 10, whose
old legs hadn’t been first past
the post for about two years,
though in his day he was really
good, with the six-furlongs
record at Caulfield in his list.
The smart two-year-old colt
Aly Khan won his second race
on successive Saturdays when
he scored in the five-furlongs
Barkoola Handicap, but those
who laid the odds of 5 to 2 on
would not like the race over
again. Halfway down the
straight he seemed to be coast-
ing to an easy win, but the
100-to-l chance King Dassie
got uncomfortably close to
him on the line. Anything
longer than five furlongs might
find Aly Khan out at this
stage.
Sir Blink stood out in class
against the company engaged
in the mile Kinross Handicap,
but he found the mile too
short, and never got within
sighting-distance of the leaders,
the race going to Good
Summer, a very useful galloper
when the stars are off the
scene. There are not many
better-looking gallopers racing
in Melbourne than this hand-
some chestnut gelding, who is
New Zealand-bred, by Summer-
time from Good Sense.
At Flemington next Satur-
day the M.R.C. will stage its
imaginative £3150 International
Stakes. For this bi-annual race
the club sends invitations to
selected jockeys in many coun-
tries. This year the riders
to accept are Geoff Lewis
(England), who rode 86 winners
last season and is regarded by
“Scobie” Breasley as a jockey
with a great future; Fred
Palmer (France), who won this
year’s Ascot Gold Cup ; Yusi
Nohira (Japan), whose father
and father-in-law are both
trainers in Nippon ; J. Hoo-
gaert (Holland); and “Moses”
Lee (Malaya). Given fine
weather, a huge crowd should
reward the M.R.C.’s enterprise.
Obviously next year’s £25,000
Centenary Melbourne Cup will


/{UoH/fit
m
fU'toujUot+t iVcfrlcf
x+crte thcui
yeats as
the Pen
ivith the
Marvellous
QOLD
Nib!
Ipnway 85 L 42/61.
Other Conway Models
29161 to 75/ -
the finest Pens
the Greatest Value
CONWAY STEWART & CO. LTD. LON DON
attract a huge entry, and the
V.R.C. has taken two steps to
keep the nominations within
reason. The club has increased
the balloting-clauses from five
to eight, and imposed a steep
rise on nomination- and entry-
fees. It will cost the owner of
a runner in the big race £125 in
fees, against this year’s £77.
The entry-fee will be £5, a rise
of £2. The second payment
will be £2O instead of £4, and
the final pavment £lOO instead
of £7l.
s *
The Trots
Before a crowd of close on
19,000 at Harold Park last
Friday night Australia’s best
pacing mare, Sibelia, made a
great return to form to beat
a class field in the £lOOO Free-
for-All of lli furlongs. She
looked to be pocketed with
three furlongs to go, but driver
Adams, shot her through an
opening as the field bunched
at the straight - entrance.
Gorrelate and Apmat were
both making sweeping runs at
this stage, but Sibelia ran
away from them, beating
Gorrelate by 2| lengths, with
Apmat a nose away third.
Sibelia’s win was her 20th at
the Park—a record for night
trots. She will probably make
the journey to Melbourne to
run in the’ A. G. Hunter Cup
at the end of this month, as
part of her preparation for the
Inter-Dominion early next
year. After an unlucky second
the previous week, Lucky Vale
was beaten only by a neck
by Robert Ainsley in the
Trotters’ Handicap. The third-
placegetter, Single Raider, had
already had six placings in his
last nine starts. Punters put
on a savage sort of show when
the heavily-backed favorite,
Sang Pur, broke hopelessly at
the start of the Qualifying
Stakes and stayed well to the
rear of the field. Stewards, for
their part, said they’d refuse
Sang Pur’s nomination for
future meetings at the Park.
Queen Belwin, who a week
earlier had chased Watta Mite
home, reversed the order to
win the event.
* *
Tournament of
Champs.
A tennis fixture certain to
appeal extra-strongly to
Sydneysiders is the Ampol
“Tournament of Champions”
which Jack Kramer and co. are
putting on at White City next
Tuesday (December 8), starting
at 7.45 p.m.
Half the proceeds will go to
Torch Bearers for Legacy.
Gonzales and Hoad will be
the star attractions, playing in
the quarter-finals of the tourna-
ment. The programme bills
two singles and a doubles.
Tickets are 305., 205., 15s.
and 10s., and reservations can
be made now at Torch Bearers
for Legacy office, 169 Eliza-
beth Street; N.S.W. Sports
Store ; Bert Oldfield’s ; Mick
Simmons; Hawton's Sports
Store, Chatswood, and the
White City Courts, Rushcutter
Bay.
* * *
Cricket Test
In a race against the clock
in the second innings Australia
defeated Pakistan in the second
cricket Test by seven wickets,
to become the first country to
win a Test series in Pakistan.
It finished with lOmin. to spare.
Spearheaded by first-wicket-down
batsman Saeed Ahmad, helped by
skipper-’keeper Imtiaz Ahmad and
all-rounder Shujaud D.in, Pakistan
made a gallant bid to save the
game after being 245 runs behind
on the first innings.
Australia’s two chief spinners,
Benaud and Kline, were otf-color
for a time during Pakistan's second
innings. Nevertheless Kline, who
wasn’t picked for the first Test,
finished with 7-75.
Besides Saeed Ahmad's 166 (made
in 74 hours), a dashing century
(134)~was scored by O'Neill, with
first-innings support from reliables
McDonald, Harvey and Davidson.
O’Neill and Harvey in particular
are in top form with the bat.
They both got runs fast in the
second innings.
Pakistan 146 (Hanif Mohammad
49; Davidson 4-48) and 366 (Saeed
Ahmad 166, Imtiaz Ahmad 54,
Shujaud Din 45; Kline 7-75).
Australia 9-391 (O'Neill 134, David-
son 47, Harvey 43, McDonald 42)
and 3-122 (O’Neill 43 not-out).
In Brisbane N.S.W. had no
particular trouble beating
Queensland outright by an
innings and 79 runs in one of
the first two Sheffield Shield games
of the 1959-60 season. N.S.W.,
390; Queensland, 195 and 116.
Best for N.S.W., with the bat,
the consistent Booth (168) and
Craig (a dour 82); with the ball,
left-hand bowlers Martin and
Wellham, and fast-bowler Misson,
a Test prospect. Queensland had
batsmen down to No. 8, but, as
has happened at times with other
teams which have batting at depth,
it availed them little.
The Shield game in Perth, played
at the §ame time between W.A. and
Victoria, was much more even —a
' first-innings win by 41 runs for
the home State. Two batsmen to
show out were Victorian Jack
Potter (102 —he made 88 of 127
added on Saturday), and former
N.S.W. all-rounder Bob Simpson,
who opened for W.A. and made
98. An interesting newcomer to
the W.A. side is batsman Neil
Hawke, who made a well-compiled
89. Hawke is well known in both
Adelaide and Perth as a top
Australian Rules full-forward or
centre-half-forward; he was picked
for W.A. at football last season.
“Golfer”: With their latest
Canada Cup win Thomson and
Nagle brought Australia level
with America, the only coun-
tries to have won twice. The
tournament demonstrated how
remarkably British Common-
wealth players have virtually
taken-over big golf in the last
couple of years. Springbok
Gary Player is the British Open
champion, and Thomson has
won a string of European
tournaments in the last few
months. Whilst victory is
satisfying, perhaps the nicest
gesture at this tournament was
one made when the trophies
were presented by Frank Pace,
jnr., president of the Inter-
national Golf Association,
which co-operated with Ampol
in staging the event at Royal
Melbourne. Acting on a
suggestion by Bill Walkley,
chairman of directors of
Ampol, Mr. Pace called the
two Indonesian players, Salim
and Sjamsudin, to the official
dais to be presented with costly
silver cigarette-cases, suitably
inscribed and carrying a map
of Australia. The presentation,
a surprise, was for the team that
“tried the hardest”! Salim and
Sjamsudin, newcomers to the
tournament, certainly piled-up
a mammoth score, but they
battled on. They were given a
tremendous round of applause,
and they had certainly earned
it.
* * *
“Bob-Ray”: It begins to
look as if the days of Sham-
ateurism are numbered. The
announcement by Wimbledon
officials that they are in favor
of “open tennis” looks a clear
lead to the future. Opponents
say that amateur officials will
not give their time to pro-
motion of tournaments in
which both professionals and
amateurs are engaged, but golf
and football —two money-
sports —are backed-up by the
efforts of amateur officials
who expect no recompense, and
it would be the same with open
tennis.


watch his eye f
LIGHT UP
when you give him a
mm
iw:
mm
this Christmas
Barling Briar Pipes are cut from rare roots of
great age. Only the finest grains are selected.
There is no “breaking in” and, to ensure free
draught, only*the finest vulcanite is bored.
Give him a Barling—he'll be delighted.
Obtainable from all Leading
Tobacconists
Trade enquiries: Box 502, G.P.0., Sydney.-
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in ail Principal Country Towns.
■% F. S. WATSON. Mnnat/er.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
FRANCE AND THE BOMB
TAiscussing President de
Gaulle’s apparent deter-
mination to continue with
France’s planned nuclear test
in the Sahara —in spite of
Britain’s resolution before the
U.N. Political Committee
urging France to associate her-
self with any international
agreement to ban tests —the
Manchester “Guardian” notes
firstly the possibility “that the
President does not mean pre-
cisely what he appears to be
saying
“After all, he does seem to
be saying a great deal, even for
him: that even if the three
existing nuclear Powers agree
to stop tests, France will con-
tinue to trudge her solitary
way along the road to full
thermo-nuclear status, testing
bombs in defiance of world
opinion in general and the
Americans and Russians in
particular.
“Yet in dealing with Presi-
dent de Gaulle it is safer to
assume that he does mean
what he says, however extreme
it sounds. He owes everything,
after all, to utter intransigence ;
and he no doubt believes that
the man who was not humbled
by Roosevelt or Churchill has
little to fear from Eisenhower
or Macmillan.
“If this assumption is
correct, what should Britain
and America do? For the
United States, the answer is
clear enough. It would be
preposterous to allow the
chance of a world agreement
banning nuclear tests to be
torpedoed by France; and it
would be humiliation indeed if
American foreign policy were
to be determined in Paris. As
Mr. Walter Lippmann has
pointed out, the United States
has the whip-hand in Europe ;
on this issue she would be
justified in using it.
“For Britain the answer is
no less clear—though in certain
quarters it will be even less
palatable. As long as we re-
tain our own nuclear weapons
in our own exclusive control
we almost force the French to
demand theirs —in sheer self-
respect.” - 1
Support of this view comes
from the Baltimore (U.S.)
“Sun,” which notes that de
Gaulle’s insistence is, “from the
French point of view, perfectly
logical”:
“In the nightmare world of
—London “Evening Standard
".. .JUST WHEN WE’RE TRYING TO GIVE IT UP—FOR HEALTH REASONS ...”
power-politics possession of an
atomic bomb is the pass which
entitles the owner to member-
ship in the Great Powers club.
“It would be foolish for
countries with atomic weapons
to strike moral attitudes,
though that will not prevent
them from doing so. From
the time when the United
States proposed an elaborate
control-system, the owners of
atomic bombs have been talk-
ing about limiting these most
horrible of weapons, but, for
one reason or another, doing
nothing about it. This alone
makes hypocritical the invoca-
tion of higher standards of
morality for the junior mem-
bers when the club shows signs
of enlarging.
“Switzerland, Sweden and
Yugoslavia, among others, have
all been thinking aloud about
taking-up membership. What
applies to France will apply to
them when the time comes, if
a disarmament agreement is
not reached swiftly and con-
clusively.”
The “Guardian,” however,
makes one last point, and a
suggestion:
“President de Gaulle has
based his claim for nuclear
status partly on the argument
that at present the continent
of Europe has no deterrent of
its own. If we [Britain] were to
offer to pool our own nuclear
weapons with France this argu-
ment would be knocked from
under his feet. Western Europe
would then have its deterrent
—and it would be a much
better deterrent than France


CHRISTMAS CARDS
A unique range of hand-colored Christmas Cards
featuring photographs by Monte Luke, F.R.P.S., and
John Wray, A.R.P.S., of Australian landscapes and
scenes is available to readers at the privilege price of
10s. a dozen, with envelopes. Orders should be
addressed to the Card Department, Box 2521, G.P.0.,
Sydney, with remittance enclosed. A sample card will
be sent by return mail on receipt of three sd. stamps.
Please print your name and address.
I XL;
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of :
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
can hope to get by its own
efforts for at least some years.
At the same time it would be
the kind of dramatic gesture
of understanding which might
repair the shaken alliance —
badly in need of repair, for its
own sake.”
K. and M.
Tn the New York “Herald
Tribune,” columnist Joseph
Alsop attacks “the theory that
the peaceable Khrushchev is
always having trouble ‘restrain-
ing’ the warlike Mao Tse-tung.
“Some seeming support for
this theory has recently been
provided by the Chinese attack
on Indian border-police in
Ladakh. This incident runs
counter to the Kremlin’s evi-
dent desire for an end to the
border troubles between China
and India. But at the point in
Ladakh where the trouble
arose, the Chinese have boldly
built 40 miles of costly and
difficult road, straight through
Indian territory, from Gartock
to Yarkand. They have already
indicated their willingness to go
along with the Kremlin on the
general question of the Indian-
Tibetan border. But they
plainly mean to keep their
strategic Gartok-Yarkand road-
link in any de facto or arbit-
rated settlement. Hence the
recent incident.
“This incident does not alter
the record that the Chinese
have never attempted any
adventure involving military
risk without full Soviet
approval. This incident does
not alter the key fact, either,
that China cannot possibly
sustain a serious war-strain
without active Soviet support.
“In short, the Chinese may
wish to go adventuring in ways
the Kremlin will not back,
just as they may perhaps wish
to re-establish the Emperor
Chien Lung’s former influence
in Mongolia. But Khrushchev
does not need to fear adven-
tures he disapproves, any
more than he fears for his
‘empty lands.’ ”
Eisenhower's
Grand Tour
Come press comment on the
lengthy tour which Presi-
dent Eisenhower is to begin
on December 4 and complete
before the Western summit-
meeting in Paris on December
19:
London “Economist":
“Until the addition of Madrid
upset the calculations, Presi-
dent Eisenhower’s December
tour around the periphery of
the Communist world was very
neat numerically nine
countries, nineteen thousand
miles, nineteen days.
“The inclusion of Spain may
be awkward in more important
ways, for it suggests to critical
observers that the President’s
trip-—officially intended only to
encourage better understanding
of, and goodwill for, the
United States—is to be followed
by demands for more concrete
co-operation in the strategy of
the cold war ; the visit to Spain
can be linked with possible
future discussions on the
establishment of missile-bases
there. Moreover, there are
dangers for the general morale
of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organisation, and for the pro-
paganda value of the tour itself,
in overdoing the courtship of
General Franco.
“Nevertheless, the rest of the
trip has been arranged most
tactfully, with everyone on the
way to and from India (the
place Mr. Eisenhower really
wants to visit and the place
where his visit can do most
good) getting at least a few
hours of his time, except for
the Middle Eastern countries
which he presumably does not
mind offending.
“The fact that this is the
first time that a President of
the United States has been to
Asia and that he is coming
with the full ceremonial of jet-
aircraft, motorcades, heli-
copters and a hundred journa-
lists in attendance, coupled with
the attractiveness of Mr.
Eisenhower’s personality,
should ensure that his impact
and publicity-value rival those
of Mr. Khrushchev’s Asian
travels.”
* * *
London “Sunday Times":
“We in Britain, with our
imperial and maritime connec-
tions, do not readily appreciate
how remote and unfamiliar
Asia is to the Americans. As
a key zone on the strategic
map they afford it military aid.
As an area of ‘underdeveloped’
countries they see in it a proper
object of financial largesse.
But the mass of Americans,
even the well-educated and
travelled, have little or no
personal contact with Asians
or understanding of their way
of life and mode of thought.
“Mr. Eisenhower, as their
representative and type, will
not fully repair the lack in a
few days spent in Delhi,
Karachi, Kabul and Tehran.
But once personal contacts are
established they develop ; once


A PILL TO COMBAT
SKIN MISERIES
Suffered from Ringworm or
Athlete’s foot, and treated it
with salves and ointments,
and still it itches? Read in
December Reader’s Digest
about the new antibiotic—that
could be the supreme weapon
against skin fungi.
Other articles include, What
Shall I Tell My Daughters?, Are
Contact Lenses For You?, How
Do We Choose a Mate?, Ordeal
in the Desert, Stop These Tragic
Injuries to Children, “My Name
Is Robert. I am an Alcoholic”,
The Mind’s New Tool.
Thirty-five new articles in
December Reader’s Digest. On
sale NOW at all bookstalls
and newsagents. Get your
copy today. Only 2/-.
INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Bong Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £20,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 81 3 1 (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
—Frankfurter “Allgemeine Zeirung."
PRELIMINARY CONFERENCES.
a country’s name calls-up
remembered scenes, its affairs
always seem more real and
more intelligible than if it is
only an abstraction known
from books.”
* * *
London “Daily Mail”: “Here
is one sign that the centre of
gravity in world affairs may
be shifting from Europe to
Asia. Berlin is an obstinate
question and will remain so, but
it is unlikely to lead to war.
India is becoming the critical
problem. The Chinese aggres-
sions on her north-eastern
border are the beginnings of
a struggle which could last for
years and settle the destiny of
vast regions.
“Mr. Eisenhower is well
aware of this. He knows that
if it ever came to a showdown
India would have to be held
for Western democracy—and
that the U.S. would have to do
some of the holding.
“Not that this visit will be
followed by military commit-
ments. But the tour itself is,
in a sense, a commitment. It
will certainly be interpreted as
an indication that America
stands behind India.
“The very thought must be
a great comfort to Mr. Nehru,
whose neutralism has left him
standing alone in face of the
fire-eating dragon from the
north.”
* * *
London “Observer”: “The
President’s tour is primarily a
goodwill mission with no
specific political objectives. But
he will be all the better
equipped for an eventual
summit-meeting through having
learnt at first hand how various
Asian leaders look at world
problems. It is a pity that his
tour could not take in Cairo,
an important Afro-Asian centre
where some serious diplomatic
initiative from the West is long
overdue. Obviously, the Presi-
dent cannot do everything in
one journey, but it is high
time some leading Western
statesman undertook the job of
preaching to the unconverted
and had a frank talk with Presi-
dent Nasser.”
* * *
Marguerite Higgins, in N.Y.
“Herald Tribune”: “Mr. Eisen-
hower’s trip to Asia in partic-
ular offers ordinary men and
women of this part of the world
their first chance to show both
East and West whether, for
instance, their Government’s
‘neutralism’ is genuine.
“Where, as in Pakistan,
alliances with the United States
do exist, the world can judge
for itself the truth of Com-
munist charges that they are
imposed against the will of the
people.
“In times of war or cold war
when the lines are clearly
drawn, a triumphant reception
for an American President and
the things for which he stands
(such as being against nations
which push other nations
around) could mean little to the
declared enemy behind the Iron
Curtain. But with the lines
in flux and the word ‘enemy’
being replaced (for the intan-
gible reasons of the intangible
Spirit of Camp David) by the
word ‘opponent,’ the times are
different.”
Memoir War
TCrom the New York “Herald
-*• Tribune “lt may be a
little difficult to appreciate the
fact, after reading the recollec-
tions of the various generals
involved, but the Allied effort
in the West in World War II
was the greatest, smoothest and
most successful military opera-
tion by an alliance that history
records.
“That being the case, it is
rather astonishing to see the
head of steam some of the
participants can work-up over
the wreckage of controversy,
the distant echoes of person-
ality clashes and the abraded
edges of national pride that
marked, but did not mar, the
victory.
“President Eisenhower has
had to deny, through Mr.
Hagerty, that he played golf
during the battles for France
and Germany —stemming from
a comment in the second
volume of Lord Alanbrooke’s
memoirs that simply cried out
for misunderstanding: that the
then Supreme Commander was
‘on the golf-links at Rheims—
entirely detached and taking
practically no part in running
the war.’ As [has been] pointed
out, the former Chief of the
Imperial General Staff did not
say that General Eisenhower
was playing golf ; the Supreme
Commander was quartered in a
golf clubhouse near Rheims at
the time. But the implied jibe
matched a number of Lord
Alanbrooke’s comments on the
generalship of Eisenhower (and
of his American colleagues,
except General MacArthur).
“There is very little point
in examining here the justice
of Lord Alanbrooke’s con-
clusions about his allies or
passing judgment on the good
taste or wisdom of publish-
ing them now. That is really
a matter for the specialists.
After all, it is still possible to
work-up a lively argument over
the Battle of Gettysburg and
the respective roles of Lee and
Longstreet, although the gun-
fire died away nearly a century
ago.
“P resident Eisenhower’s
prestige and authority are not
affected by the questions at
issue; as General de Gaulle
told him at the time, one must
pay for one’s glory. Part of
the payment is to have the
record picked apart years
later.”
Dragnet Digest
David T. Cattell, in “Prob-
lems of Communism”: “The
Soviet policy of supporting
and playing-up to the African
national regimes and nation-
alist movements necessarily


INVEST WITH SAFETY
i
18 MONTHS AND OVER
0
DEPOSITS MAY BE WITHDRAWN ON
30 DAYS' NOTICE
INTEREST PAID QUARTERLY
SALES FINANCING OF FAMOUS PRODUCTS
DISTRIBUTED BY THE
'Jfaslinas'Dccrttuj Gs*cufr
FORD
CATERPILLAR
HYSTER
A.E.C.
FORDSON
LANZ
JOHN DEERE
LISTER
• CIRCULAR NO. 4 dated 30/9/S9 with audited balance
sheet as at 30/6/59 available from:
All Members of the Stock Exchange and all
branches of
HASTINGS DEERING
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
William & Crown Streets, Sydney. Tel. FA 0322 (33 lines)
102-124 Melbourne St., South Brisbane. Tel. 4-1481 (9 lines)
City Chambers, Alinga St., Canberra, A.C.T. Tel. J 4051
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE & INVESTMENT CO. LTD.,
G.P.O. Box 4333, SYDNEY.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, full details of
your terms deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS -
implies acceptance, insofar as
the African Communists are
concerned, of peaceful com-
petition and persuasion as the
means of achieving power.
This, of course, hampers their
tactical freedom of action and
obliges them to rely on win-
ning mass support, something
that is inherently difficult for
a strongly doctrinaire party.
“Furthermore, the fact that
the new strategy has not
deterred the nationalist regimes
in the United Arab Republic
and Iraq, as well as in some
of the new African States, from
taking strong action against the
local Communist movements
may be causing Moscow to
re-evaluate the whole pro-
nationalist approach, with the
possibility of a return to
greater reliance on an inde-
pendent and aggressive role for
the local parties. Should there
be an end to the Communist
flirtation with nationalism,
infiltration and subversion
probably would become once
more the backbone of Com-
munist strategy in Africa.”
* * *
C. L. Sulzberger, in the
“New York Times”: “America’s
major Antarctic concern, mili-
tarily speaking, is to deny this
continent to Russia as a base.
Missiles can be manned by
merely a few people and kept
in cold - storage indefinitely.
Nevertheless it is hard to see
how anything, in war-time,
could be done from installa-
tions near the South Pole that
couldn't be done more easily
from other areas —at least as
far as Europe and North
America are concerned.
“It is, however, in our
interest to ensure that this vast
region should never be turned
by the Russians into a kind of
Antarctic ‘Albania.’ Moscow
now threatens Greece and
Turkey from rocket-ramps in
that Adriatic land. Similar
launching-pads, operated by a
handful of men, could be used
by the U.S.S.R. to blackmail
the entire Southern Hemis-
phere from here.”
* * *
London “New Statesman”:
“This situation [the border
dispute with China] is not of
India’s making. Those who now
attack Nehru for trusting Chou
En-lai’s friendly promises do
not discuss the alternatives.
Imagination boggles to think
what they would have said if he
had organised free India on a
military basis, if instead of
developing India’s peaceful
resources he had tried to ‘fortify
the Himalayas’ against a hypo-
thetical Chinese attack. If the
Himalayas are not a natural
frontier, then none still exists.
“Nehru has in fact
endeavored to improve on the
old British technique of defence
by keeping on terms of friend-
s h i p, supplemented by
economic aid, with the frontier
peoples in Kashmir, Nepal,
Bhutan and Assam These
areas are largely inhabited by
tribes with ethnic and religious
affinities with Tibet, which is
now subjugated and being
rapidly developed by China.
The commonsense solution
(which Nehru would have
welcomed) would be for India
and China jointly to open-up
and develop the frontier-regions
for everyone’s benefit. If Chou
En-lai had wanted it, Indians
and Chinese could both be
using the Ladakh road.”


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
m
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N-Z.
Tumut, which was in his con-
stituency. In the House of
Representatives ballots Tumut
did not command more than
five votes, after which it was
omitted from the list altogether!
The extraordinary position,
therefore, was that in the
Senate, by some secret under-
standing, Dalgety, Armidale,
Tooma and Lyndhurst were
eliminated on the first ballot,
not a single vote having been
cast for any one of them.
For the remaining two sites,
the voting was: Yass-
Canberra, 18 ; Tumut, 18.
Members of the several
States were represented as
follows: For Yass-Canberra:
N.S.W., 6; Victoria, 1 ;
Queensland, 3 ; S.A., 3 ; W.A.,
0; Tasmania, 5; total, 18.
For Tumut: N.S.W., 0; Vic-
toria, 5 ; Queensland, 3 ; S.A.,
3; W.A., 6; Tasmania, 1;
total, 18.
The one Victorian who had
voted for Yass-Canberra was
Senator Simon Fraser.
In the next ballot Senator
J. H. McColl (Victoria)
changed-over from Tumut, and
“WAITING TILL THE CAT JUMPS”
(Sir William Lyne; from one of “Hop's” Federal
Capital cartoons in THE BULLETIN. At the time of the
events here chronicled The Bulletin thought no more
highly of Canberra as the Federal Capital site than the
author of these Memoirs thinks of it.)
thus gave Yass-Canberra the
site, the vote being 19 to 17.
Never in the history of the
Federal Parliament had there
been such a discreditable dis-
play of vote-rigging. It was
realised that the voting would
be very close, but few thought
it would be as close as it was.
As shown, the Yass-Canberra
site was chosen by a majority
of one changed vote!
Thus, by a piece of nothing
short of political jugglery,
Australia today is committed
to the expenditure of untold
millions of pounds in an area
which the Capital Sites Com-
mission had no hesitation in
turning-down, and which is
never likely to be more than
a spectacular city carved out
of dry and bleak cattle-grazing
plains.
A fraction of the huge
amount involved, if spent at
Dalgety, would have resulted
in the opening-up of a pic-
turesque and productive area
with a wonderful port at Eden
(Twofold Bay). These geo-
graphical features, in the minds
of the experts, had the
resources required for the
building-up of a big national
city with many great surround-
ing industries. That majority
of one vote will probably go
down in history as the most
expensive vote ever cast in
Australian public life.
/~\nce the bill was passed, the
N.S.W. members naturally
abandoned their obstructive
tactics. They never ceased
their pressure on the Govern-
ment to make an early start
with the work of construction
of the new city at Canberra,
so as to avoid the risk of
another change of site.
The first step was to arrange
for a worldwide competition
for the layout of the new city.
The winner was Walter Burley
Griffin. The administration of
the Act was placed in the
Home Affairs Department, of
which at that time King
O’Malley was Minister. He
welcomed Griffin as coming
from the American continent
like himself, and promised
complete but he
soon realised that his principal
departmental officers were not
prepared to back him up. The
permanent head of the depart-
ment was Colonel David Miller,
and the Director of Works
Lieut.-Col. Owen. Both were
from N.S.W.
O’Malley confessed to me
that he was having trouble
with his staff. “These gilt-
spurred roosters seem to have
their own ideas how the capital,
city should be laid out. They
haven’t any time for Walter
Burley Griffin,” he said.
But the staff-men wore down
the Minister’s opposition. They
managed to secure so many
alterations in the design that
Griffin got disgusted and
returned to the United States
But he left his mark in Vic-
torian architecture in the
unique design of the Capitol
Theatre in Swanston Street,
and in other privately owned
buildings.
Some years later a number
of Melbourne pressmen were
officially invited to report on
the progress of the Federal
Capital, works at Canberra.
The “Argus” was represented
by Alec Raws. We travelled
to Yass by train, and were
then to go by car to Canberra.
Halfway there, Raws com-
plained that he was completely
numbed by the intense cold,
and if we didn’t pull-up he
would freeze to death. Two
of us lifted him out of the
car and walked him about.
When we had thawed him out
sufficiently, we continued our
journey. We remembered what
Lyne had said about being
frozen to death at Dalgety, and
we felt very sorry he was not
a member of our party on the
way to Canberra.
So many alterations were
made in Griffin’s layout at
Canberra that it was not until
March 13, 1913, that Lady
Denman, wife of the Governor-
General, was able to lay the
foundation-stone on Capital
Hill, the site where the per-
manent Parliament House is
to be built.
The stone is still there, in
solitary grandeur.
Meantime, Parliament meets
in Canberra in temporary
premises. These have already
cost hundreds of thousands of
pounds, and some day may be
vacated when the more palatial
premises are built.
There being no local indus-
tries or prospective industries
to be established at Canberra,
there is no city life with a big-
scale business community as
in the capital cities of the
States, involving extensive


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
O'SUL LI \'ANj
PTVI.TD
5» '\tns Web*? $
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Walson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
financial interests. It is not
surprising, therefore, that as
soon as the Parliamentary ses-
sion ends, members take the
first means of exit to their
respective homes, Canberra
remaining a pathetic monu-
ment to the jealousy of poli-
ticians who failed dismally to
play a statesmanlike part in
raising a capital city to become
the proudest possession of an
ambitious young nation.
THE ENDEAVOUR
MYSTERY
The arrival in Melbourne
at the end of 1957 of
the Thala Dan rang a
bell in my memory. A
2150-tonner, specially con-
structed for service in Antarc-
tica, she was under Common-
wealth charter to make a call
at Macquarie Island, about
1000 miles s.-e. of Australia, to
land the exchange meteoro-
logical crew. This reminded
me of the tragedy associated
with the first Commonwealth
fisheries-investigation trawler,
the Endeavour.
I was doing the Federal
departmental rounds, and be-
came closely acquainted with
H. C. Dannevig, who was in
charge of the trawling-branch
of the Customs Department.
When the trawler of that time
returned to port with her few
tons of refrigerating-space filled
with different varieties of fish,
Danny often invited me to see
the catch, as I was a keen
fisherman.
He facetiously came to
confer on me the order of the
first “Federal Piscatorial
Guinea Pig,” because I was
always ready to sample strange
denizens of the deep and to
report whether they were good
eating.
On one occasion, when we
went to the freezing-works a
few days after the Endeavour
had reached Melbourne from
one of her trawling-cruises,
Danny hauled out a big deep-
sea flathead. It was over three-
feet long. When he offered
this to me, I wondered how
on earth I was going to get
the thing home. We had noth-
ing big enough to wrap it in.
Danny quickly settled it by
breaking the fish in three pieces
across his knee. It had been
frozen hard, and he said he
wanted it properly thawed-out
and cooked in the ordinary
way to test whether size had
affected its texture or flavor.
In due course, I reported in
favor of both. Incidentally,
the fish not required for
official purposes were always
distributed free to charitable
institutions.
Among other species, Danny
placed high in his list of the
most delectable fish the John
Dory (or Doree). This variety
is seldom, if ever, seen in
Victorian fish-shops. Danny
claimed that he had discovered
a rendezvous at the edge of
the continental shelf where he
could trawl tons of Dorys at
a time, but as his task was
centred on investigation he
would have to leave the com-
mercial side to be developed
by others.
The John Dory is shaped
something like a bream, but
slightly deeper from dorsal-fin
to gut. It is usually an olive-
brown color with a yellow tinge
which reflects various shades
in different lights. Conspicuous
on each side is a black spot.
Danny told me that in Scan-
dinavian lore these two spots
were the fingerprints of St.
John, who so admired the fish
that he returned it to the sea.
Thus the fingerprints were
destined ever to adorn the
species.
Alas, for this pretty story!
Danny himself explained that
the name John Dory was
actually a corruptive of the
French words Ja'une d’or
(golden-yellow).
TVanny was brought into the
Federal Public Service at
the instance of Nicholas Lock-
yer, who followed Dr. Wolles-
ton as Comptroller-General of
Customs in the early days of
Federation.
Lockyer was Dr. Wolleston’s
son-in-law, and, like his dis-
tinguished father-in-law, was a
splendid type of public servant.
He was always accessible to
public or press. Gentlemanly
courtesy was his second-nature.
He always seemed to have a
half-smoked pipe on his desk.
His usual action when a
visitor arrived was to pick up
his pipe and light-up, but he
soon laid the pipe aside as
the conversation progressed.
I understood that Darmy was
from Denmark. He had come
to Australia at the invitation
of the N.S.W. Government,
which in those early times was
the only State in Australia that
Appeared to realise the value
of establishing deep-sea
fisheries. On accepting the
Federal position Danny stipu-
lated that an up-to-date trawler
should be furnished for his
work. This brought into the
picture a design, approved by
Danny, of a vessel with par-
ticularly high and flaring bows.
Her displacement was only a
few hundred tons. (Compare
this with the 2000-odd tons
of the Thala Dan!) But, with
his North Sea experience,
Danny was confident that it
would ride out the stormiest
seas. It was named the
Endeavour in memory of
Captain Cook.
Up to the occasion of which
I write, Danny had made
numerous voyages and had
piled-up a mass of information,
but Lockyer once said to me
that, while Danny was doing
very valuable work, he seemed
to be keeping most of his
records in his head. This,
unfortunately, turned out to be
true.
r T"'HE time had come round
again for relieving the
meteorological staff at Mac-
quarie Island. No vessel was
available, and it was decided
to ask Danny to undertake the
duty. He did not like the
idea.
Discussing the matter with
him one morning, I bluntly put
the question whether he feared
that it would be too dangerous
for his little vessel to go so
far south, where she. might
meet heavy, tempestuous seas.
He just smiled in a reassuring
way, remarking that the
Endeavour would ride out the
fiercest gale that ever raged.
But it took him several days
before he could make-up his
mind. I concluded from our
almost daily talks that he was
not at all frightened at the
prospect, but that he felt he
was being called on to under-
take a task that did not in any
way come within the range of
duties of a piscatorial investiga-
tion-officer.
Right up to the eve of what
turned out to be his last voyage
he said, in reply to my ques-
tions whether he was going,
that he was just “not sure.”
Then the morning came when
at last he said “Yes.”
I saw him off and wished
him luck. He appeared to be
his own smiling self again.
And that was the last I saw
of my old friend.
The Endeavour safely landed
the relieving staff at Macquarie
Island. Subsequent informa-
tion was to the effect that, after
a short stay, Danny took the
Endeavour to sea again on the
return journey. The date was
December 3, 1914. The mem-
bers of the meteorological
staff were naturally delighted
at the prospect of their long
period of duty on the inhos-
pitable island being brought to
a close, and of rejoining their
families in Australia in good
time for Christmas.
But the Endeavour was
never heard of again, nor was
a vestige of wreckage found.
The crew and meteorological
staff numbered 24.
There was a whisper long
afterwards that the weather-
forecast at the time at Mac-
quarie Island was not indicative
of favorable conditions, but that
Dannevig never wavered in his
view that his dream-ship would
stand-up to any storm.
I recollect that he did say
before leaving Melbourne on
his fateful voyage that he
might do a little trawling on
the way back from Macquarie
Island. I wonder whether the
Endeavour was caught in a
sudden Antarctic storm with
her trawl-nets out?
(To be continued next week, with
the “Human Touch at Broken Hill, 7 ’
a personal first-hand account of
early efforts to make the Barrier
a better place for workers —against
worker-opposition, but eventually
providing a wonderful windfall for
the local R.S.L. There will be, as
well, the author's notable pen-
portrait of “A Forgotten Scientist, 77
who well deserves to be better
known.)


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
73 YEAItS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
Between
Ourselves
/Tmm k
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
A “must” for all
housewives —if you want
to keep them up to the
mark —are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, gar-
dening and “help”
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Territory Water
If further evidence is needed
that the Northern Territory is
coming into its own so far as
mining is concerned, it is
supplied by the Minister for
Territories’ press-statement of
25/10 / ’59.
The Minister points out that
mineral-production for the
year ended 30/6/’59 (exclud-
ing Rum Jungle uranium and
building-materials) was valued
at £4,155,000 —this in spite of
a fall in values during the year.
A comparison with the
figures for 1953 is striking.
The 1953 total was given as
£1,465,140, of which gold at
£827,480 and copper at
£426,346 were the major items.
At June, 1959, the previous
year's copper-production was
valued at £2,714,000, and gold
at £1.003,000.
The jump in employment
was from 616 in 1953 to 1149
in 1959. In addition to the
value of minerals produced this
last year and estimated at over
£4. million, the value of quarry-
ing- and building-materials
was £610,000 —a record.
Turning back to 1939: The
Administrator (C. L. A.
Abbott) reported the value of
total mineral production for
that year as £202,502. A
twentyfold increase in 20
years is pretty good going, any
way* you look at it.
By far the greater part of
file increase is due to the gold
and copper from Tennant
Creek, in spite of the difficul-
ties under which everyone
labors there.
The N.T. Legislative Council
was informed by Cr. Len
Purkiss (“Centralian Advo-
cate,” 30/10/’59) that water at
Tennant Creek costs £4 per
1000 gallons. When a man
lands home from a day in the
mines the first thing he wants
is a bath. If he uses 50 gallons
the wash costs him 4s. What
an outcry there would be in
Broken Hill, Port Pirie, Mt.
“Sorry I'm late—I had trouble parking."
Isa, Mt. Morgan or Kalgoorlie
if a man had to pay 4s. for a
bath!
The Department of Terri-
tories has done a pretty good
job on the whole, but it seems
to have fallen-down badly over
the Tennant Creek water-
supply. The W.A. Govern-
ment solved the Kalgoorlie-
Coolgardie water-problem by-
laying a main from Mundaring
in the Stirling Ranges. I think
it would pay handsome divi-
dends to pump water from the
Katherine or Waterhouse to
Tennant Creek. It is little
further from the Katherine to
Tennant Creek than it is from
Mundaring to Kalgoorlie.
Such a scheme would cost
perhaps £3 million, but it would
ensure adequate water not only
for Tennant Creek but for the
growing settlements along the
North-South Road, Mataranka,
Larrimah, Daly Waters and
Elliott. I have been to these
places, and know they all have
problems.
In any case, a town pro-
ducing round £4 million in new
wealth per annum is worth
some special consideration.
With adequate water at a
reasonable price the town
would double its size in five
years, mine-treatment costs
would be reduced, and every-
one would be much happier.—
D. C. Tilghman (N.S.W.).
King’s Park, Perth
I usually agree with the
views of “Pieter Nuyts,” but
I don’t agree with him about
the W.A. Parliament’s second
decision against granting an
area of King’s Park for an
aquatic-centre. Perth will
regret this shortsighted decision
influenced by a vocal minority.
For years I lived near
King's Park and walked
through it many times weekly.
The number of people who
use the park, except for the
formalised parts, is very few.
Many just drive through it.
For a short time each year
it is gay with wildflowers, but
even they are now being
hidden by the all-enveloping
veldt-grass, which creates a
fire-hazard.
The large numbers of people
who visit the area near the
war-memorial and use the
bowling- and tennis-clubs show
what value other sporting-
facilities would be to the
community.
I would put not only the
aquatic-centre in King’s Park
but also a couple of public
golf-courses, more bowling-
greens, tennis-clubs and play-
grounds for children. These
would open-up the bush areas,
prevent fires, add greatly to
the appearance of the park and
provide amenities for thou-
sands of people and revenue
for maintenance and improve-
ments.
I don't believe that rate-
payers would have to contri-
bute a penny for all this.
People would willingly pay
to use these amenities; and
there would still be hundreds
of acres of bushland for those
wanting to wander through it.
On this matter W.A. Parlia-
mentarians have let slip a great
opportunity for leadership
and independent thinking.—
Boatman’s Mate (W.A.).
Government P.R.
Although it is accepted that
business should employ public-
relations men, any suggestion
that the Government should
do the same is likely to be
looked on as a proposal to
cover -up bureaucratic in-
efficiency.
The Government, however,
is big business. There is really
every reason why its products
should be promoted as strongly
as the products of private
enterprise, so that the public
does not come to put an arti-
ficially high value on, for
example, motor-cars as com-
pared with roads to drive
them on.
Such social goods as public
works and education are
accepted by the community as
desirable, but a lack of any
detailed knowledge of them
prevents acceptance of all their
implications.
The nation would benefit
from campaigns to promote
such things as tree-planting,
flood-control, a balanced
dietary, and national develop-
ment. Although the Depart-
ment of Information has its
News and Information Bureau,
which does some good work,


Jty.
*0
0/7
*77
#0
m
1
/
i
1
dB g
You can’t see
■ the hank
in this picture..
but it's there/
The C.B.C. is “In the picture” of almost every
industry in Australia. It provides modern
banking facilities, including those of the C.B.C.
Savings Bank, for all engaged in industry and
for every member of their families.
Ask your nearest branch of this Bank to
explain how these facilities and services can
help you.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
IDEPOSITS GUARANTEED BY THE PARENT COMPANY)
this field of activity is mainly
left to the p.-r. sections of
larger instrumentalities such as
the P.M.G., the Snowy Moun-
tains Authority and the Wool
Bureau. No organisation
undertakes the work of explain-
ing the overall picture of the
Government's leadership of the
community.
This leadership, whether we
like it or not, is a fact: it is
not Socialistic to suggest that
the facts should be presented
to taxpayers.
The persistence of many
social problems can be attri-
buted at least partly to this
lack of a central information-
service. Waste associated with
floods, nutritional deficiencies,
unjustified wage - increases,
vandalism and delinquency,
university - overcrowding, etc.,
could be largely prevented by
good public-relations work.
The idea is not very novel.
Even India has a law under
which all cinemas must screen
a 15-minute Government
documentary every week.
Here we would have to use
all available media, but the
press is probably still the most
important.
We should note that all this
is not the same as ensuring
that the whole and unadulter-
ated truth will be served to
the public as it should be.
But once the channels of infor-
mation are established it will
be the duty of newspaper- and
magazine-reporters to investi-
gate the facts, pick-out any
glossings-over, evasions or
half-truths and hammer them
until the full facts are revealed.
—Roger B. Cook (Vic.).
Inland Water
The “Drought and Flood
Serial” (B. 4/11/’59) prompts
me to give another view on
inland water.
The June, 1958, issue of the
“Journal of the British Society
of Dowsers” carried an
illuminating article entitled
“The Truth About Under-
ground Water.” The author,
V. L. Cameron, a Californian
with a vast number of bores
to his credit, wrote:
There is no other field of human
endeavor and welfare where there
is so much ignorance and miscon-
ception as there is in the beliefs
about the origin and propagation
of underground water. It is almost
unbelievable that with the progress
we have made in other fields, such
as the atom and electricity, etc.,
science should go on revering old
outmoded textbooks on geology
which state in effect that “all water
comes from rain or snow.”
Nothing could be farther from the
truth. Underground water as it
exists in the form of underground
rivers, streams, semi-extinct geysers,
fissures and springs, plentiful all
over the earth a few feet below the
surface to thousands of feet, is
nearly all fed by live steam leaking
from a superheated steam-zone at
a depth of about three to four miles
below the surface.
Water is continually falling to
these depths from oceans, lakes,
rivers and through the faults which
exist under all land-areas as well
as under bodies of water. Most
people threaten us with the com-
plete exhaustion of our underground
supplies by citing the lowering of
the “water table.” This so-called
“water table” is a mythical thing
which is supposed to exist under
all the surface of the ground
These underground supplies are
limited by the quantity of the water
in the oceans only.
D
Regarding those faults
w tc exis un er a an
areas as well as under bodies
t * „ j r
™ ter> , * e c S y dney M °™'
mg Herald in February, 1957,
reported a Columbia Umver-
sity (U.S.) scientist as saying
that there is a continuous
45,000-mile crack in the earth’s
surface about 25 miles wide
and more than two miles deep
undersea.
The present writer has been
a member of the British
e r\ c
Society of Dowsers for more
than 25 years, has made some
study Qu[ underground
wa t e rs and has had four bores
, , . , f ...
put down in search of this
deep-seated “magmatic” water
with comp iete success in each
G f them. Further exploration
has shown that this type of
supply is available over most
of the Australian inland,
Unfortunately there is no
mechanical means of locating
the supplies. A well-trained
dowser or diviner can locate


them, but such people are hard
to find.
At present a Government
commission is spending a lot
of time and money attempting
to prove the existence of the
“water table.” A fraction of
that time and money spent in
proving the existence of the
vast existing circulation of
underground water would be
well worth while. —H. O.
Busby (N.S.W.).
Fire-fighting Finance
W.A.’s method of financing
the fire-brigade is under fire.
The present system provides
that insurance-companies pay
5/9ths of the cost, and the
State Government and local-
government bodies contribute
2/9ths each. At first sight this
seems reasonable. Insurance-
companies stand to gain most
from fire-prevention, so they
should pay most; the ratepayer
also gains, so he should pay
some ; and it’s a national gain,
so the Government should
weigh-in, too.
But you could make a
similar case for the police-
force. There’s a lot of insur-
ance written against theft, so
the police-force must save
the insurance-companies a lot;
and the average ratepayer,
having destructible and thiev-
able property, obviously must
owe something to the Force.
The danger in all these
arguments is of overlooking
the fact that in these matters
the total cost is borne by the
“My invention—I found-out this new blackboard Works
Wonders among my pupils .”
public. The best that can be
done is to see that the cost
is distributed as equitably as
possible.
Getting back to the fire-
brigades. The insurance
companies pay their 5/9ths out
of their clients’ contributions,
and most clients will also be
ratepayers contributing a fur-
ther 2/9ths. So the citizen
who owns property, and insures
it, is paying the bulk of the
cost of maintaining the fire-
brigade,
But that isn’t all. A man
living under a bark shelter in
the bush mightn’t be much
worse off if his “home” and
total belongings went up in
smoke ; but he’d be in as bad
a spot as the next bloke if the
factory in which he works was
demolished. Such a man could
stand to lose as much as a
householder through fires, but
all he’s contributing to the
brigade is the portion of his
income-tax that’s included in
the Government’s 2/9ths.
If the Government took-
over the local - governing
bodies’ share and contributed
4/9ths, or if it halved it and
paid 3/9ths, there’d be that
much less overlapping of pay-
ments. It wouldn't make a
great deal of difference to the
average citizen —the service
has to be paid for, and he’s
the bloke who’ll pay it—but
it would iron-out some little
anomalies which are irritating
a big section of the
community. Pieter Nuyts
(W.A.).
The Terrace Defended
Walter Gropius (B.
11/11/ ’59) is far from being
the only modern architect to
speak well of the terrace-house.
A number of architects, both in
Australia and elsewhere, have
declared it a more satisfactory
structure for urban conditions
than the bungalow.
Well-designed, and with
adequate adjacent park-space,
terrace-houses should be no
more dreary in appearance
than a typical bungalow street.
Central gardens are a feature
of a number of London squares
of Georgian terrace-houses.
The terrace-house can be
owned by the occupant. It is a
complete house, with its own
title. It has more privacy than
the flat-apartment, for it can
have its own front- and back-
yards. It is more economic to
build than the bungalow, and
needs much less space. Modern
examples, equipped with sound-
proofing and other amenities
available to flat-dwellers,
would be quite as pleasant to
live in as a bungalow. Under
modern conditions the person
who builds for letting is more
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 567
Across
I—Umpires1—Umpires not arranging a continuance. (10)
6v—Maid disturbed in the centre. (4)
9—European gossip what smells? (7)
10 —One of the Nazis behaving with taurean aggressive-
ness. (6)
12— Very affectionate morning alternative to love us. (7)
13 — Taunt me with a vegetarian entree. (7)
15—West to suspend one about one
N.Z. county. (9)
17 — Island produce produced by a
policeman and an artist. (5)
18 — Eminence achieved by North in
a Victorian country town sounds
nothing. (5)
19 — A legal undertaking—as oil
reservoirs have it. (9)
20 — Most beloved carnival of dis-
honesty. (7)
22 — An Australian airline to the
stars. (7)
23 — Rumpus with the Boston baby. (6)
25 — Animal initiating red-hot irons
next October. (5)
26 — Have a flutter kick a ferry. (4)
27 — Engineering-toy muddled notes
on Islam’s holy city. (7, 3)
Down
1 — Epitaph wagon running over a
selfish character who slept.
(3, 3,6)
2 Smelling-salts are required when
there’s a firing of big guns on
the French roofing. (3, 8)
3 A cloud Mag construed to be a
successful racehorse. (9)
4 Andronicus is giving us the
bird. (5)
5 Wurli t z e r kicks bucket
fabrics. (9)
7 A very human island. (3)
8 — Pluck shown by it and King
George. (4)
11—Suitable garment for sailing
from Melbourne to Launces-
ton? (12)
14 —Shows retired places. (11)
16 — Race disturbed with furniture
can be staged again. (9)
17 — Moon panic (anagram). (9)
21— Able to be put-up with a
Napoleonic address. (4)
22 — Continental article written before
Friday gets 100. (5)
24 —Run into this vessel. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 566


Divorce Notices
A Divorce Petition has been filed against
the undermentioned THOMAS JAMES
BLACK late of 13 The Avenue Sunder-
land County Durham England who may
apply to the District Registrar District
Registry of the High Court 56 Westgate
Road Newcastle upon Tyne for a copy of
the Petition If within 85 days he has
not communicated with the District
Registrar the Court may hear the case
in his absence. —ALFRED J. SPARK,
District Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO BENJAMIN DOALMAN late of Lith-
gow.—TAKE NOTICE that GLORIA
ALICE DOALMAN has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2862 of 1959 on the
grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse
and is asking for the exercise of the
Court’s discretion under S. 19 (2) (a)
of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899-
1958 If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Mint Building Macquarie Street Sydney
by the 2nd day of February 1960 and
obtain a eopv of the Petition without
charge from' CHARLES GRIFFITHS,
Solicitor, 107-109 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney, New South Wales. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO GEOFFREY FRANK CUMMINGS
late of Merrylands.—TAKE NOTICE that
HELEN MARY CUMMINGS has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2761 of 1959
on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 2nd day of February
1960 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from CHARLES
GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 107-109 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO KEITH FRANKLIN late of Moula-
mein.—TAKE NOTICE that LEYDEN
ISABEL FRANKLIN has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1870 of 1959 on the
grounds of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or ex-
cuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by the 2nd day of Feb-
ruary 1960 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from CHARLES
GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 107-109 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO DAVID MATTHEW PICKERING
late of Kincumber South. —TAKE
NOTICE that MAISIE JUNE PICKER-
ING has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3457 of 1959 on the grounds of
desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you
wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by the
2nd day of February 1960 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from CHARLES GRIFFITHS, Solicitor,
107-109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New
South Wales.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
in llic
Fmlui*c
£ii&
When we see the big machines at work on a
new stretch of road, we can reflect that so much
more is being done to provide that better system of
transport and communications on which Australia’s
expansion vitally depends.
On the other v side of the coin, of course, is
the immensity of the job still before us in widening
and straightening and maintaining surfaces already
built—and in pushing new roads through to areas
now served by little more than dirt tracks.
There are parts of this country today where
surveys are being made to strike the first road
alignments through ranges and across seasonal
waterways; where men are measuring heights for
bridges, assessing the grades, locating and
estimating the supply of local materials, and
establishing the mile-cost of clearing, forming, and
draining for a road.
At a time when our thinking on roads is often
confined to that which we see on our closer travels,
these engineers, surveyors, and other field men do
the extra service of reminding us how long and
broad and deep is this national task to which they
are enlisted.
The Federal grant of £250-million to the States
for road-making over the next five years is
considerably more than has been allocated in the
past. The relative worth of that sum—spread as
it will be over the period, and shared under a
formula that rests largely on present density of
population —will depend on how wisely the States
spend it.
The test will be how much more mileage of
good roads, built in the right places, will have been
added at the end of five years. Time, like transport,
is a commodity; and there is an obvious urgency
to our effort on roads.
The surveying is faithful. The big modem
machines can be relied upon to do practically
everything on the road site, from the first turning
to the last laying of the last seal.
It is to the top directional wisdom that we
have ultimately to look to ensure Australia its
better deal on roads.
likely to go in for flats than
for terraces, because more flats
can be placed in a given area.
It is not necessary for
terrace-type houses to be built
in actual terraces. In older
Sydney suburbs they were often
built in wide-fronted lots;
here and there one can still
be seen on its original block.
In most cases, when increased
land-values pushed up the
rates sharply the outer parts of
the lot were cut off. This
means of reducing rates is not
so readily available to the
rambling bungalow, which,
though only of moderate size,
may well sprawl over practi-
cally a whole frontage. *
The suburban sprawl is
getting out of hand. It involves
serious difficulties in distribu-
tion of goods and services such
as gas, electricity, water and
sewerage, in provision of
educational facilities, and in
transport to and from work.
Even the general ownership
of cars hasn’t enabled the
outer-suburbanites to enjoy
adequately the cultural facili-
ties of the cities. Terrace-type
houses, even though detached,
would help to prevent too great
or too untidy an extension of
suburbia. — Kanimbla (N.S.W.).
Bryant’s Record
I was surprised by
“B.E.D.’s” statement that not
one of Sir Arthur Bryant’s
books appears on the reading-
lists for British History at
Sydney University (B.
4/11 / ’59).
Bryant was made a C.B.E.
in 1949, and knighted in 1954
for his services to History. He
is an Honorary Doctor of Laws
at Edinburgh and St. Andrew’s
Universities, and 22 books are
listed in his notice in Who’s
Who.
His most famous work is a
three-volume life of Pepys —
the authoritative biography of
that great public servant. He
has also written what is prob-
ably the best life of Charles
II (1931), and has edited the
Letters and Speeches of Charles
II (1935), and the Alanbrooke
Diaries ( The Turn of the Tide
and Triumph in the West).
Among his other works are
biographies of George V
(1936) and Stanley Baldwin
(1937), and a trilogy on the
Napoleonic Wars period —
The Years of Endurance, The
Years of Victory and The Age
of Elegance. The latter, pub-
lished in 1950, won the
“Sunday Times” gold medal
and award for literature.
It was from this book, pro-
curable in cheap form in
Collins’s Fontana series, that
I drew the matter criticised by
“8.E.D.” The Hammonds’
books on The Town Laborer
and The Village Laborer are
listed among the authorities he
consulted when compiling it,
so he is evidently well
acquainted with the m. —
Farinmail (N.S.W.).


DTSAGmS
PROOF
100% Australian-
made from Aus-
tralian Material
LYSAGHT
J
ESTABLISHED 1884
WIRE NAILS
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER
in every Roll of Netting
WIRE NETTING •
G
• ' v • - - \ •. •' • :•'
■ '■• ; ?^i§
(■■•,• ? v ‘^4(^y l «i»t«' 'v.as-- . . ■'■<'.• /./ -:; 3 •.: :?; j&?'y •*“ ?tsB^
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
ZINC OXIDE
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
LYSAGHT BROS. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road,
Five Dock
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
THE DAIRYFARMER
From “Bilwon”
Some men, who find working
for a boss as irritating as
walking around with speargrass
in your socks, have an urge to
go on the land.
If such a man buys a farm
he has satisfied his highest
ambition—free from the eight-
According to reports,
the raw wool exported
from Argentina during
the October - June
1958-59 period was
328 million lb., which
was three times as great
as in the corresponding
period of 1956 - 57.
Approximately 70 per
cent, of raw wool
exports were shipped
in the form of greasy
wool and 21 per cent,
as scoured wool. Recent
reports indicate the
growing demand for
Elastrator the most
humane method of
Castration and Tailing.
Elastrator considerably
lessens the risk of fly-
strike, and similar
diseases usually asso-
ciated with old-fashioned
methods of Castrating.
to-five rat-race, he owns a bit
of dirt. Unfortunately, though,
limited finance may doom him
to a very small property, not
big enough for wheat and not
cut-out for beef or wool. So,
instead, he may. milk a small
herd of cows on land which is
not suitable for dairying.
Here is one of the strangest
features of this curious
industry. The degree of skill
and efficiency shown in the
management of most of these
farms would spell failure in
any other form of business, but
it is good enough to secure a
living with a few cows. Most of
these men work on an over-
draft ; but the banks stick to
them, because the milk-cheque,
small though it may be, rolls-
up regularly every month and
the value of the property is
more than enough to secure
the mortage —the banks see
to that!
Analysis of one of these
farms will show the low
revenue in relation to the
numbers who work on the
place. Dad, Mum and the kids
all hoe-in and lend a hand
where they can. Not hard
work, perhaps—rounding-up
the cows, feeding the poddies
or assembling the separator —
but it all helps, and so must
be accounted for when assess-
ing the farm as a business.
Students of sociology throw-
up their hands in horror at
mention of this use of “sweated
labor,” but it is significant that
the kids are none the worse
for it. They live well —with
fresh eggs, butter, milk, cream,
vegetables, beef and sometimes
pork and poultry—and are
probably healthier than their
city counterparts, whose
parents are struggling to raise
a family on the basic wage
and have to buy everything,
even their fare to work.
Admittedly, they work long
hours for their money and have
to go out in all weathers. If
you averaged out their net
income, the family would be
flat-out to rate the basic wage,
but add to that the food they
get from the farm and they are
not so badly off, after all.
The question is: what is to
be done about these dairymen?
The Government could buy
them out and sell the land to
others to increase the area of
existing farms. That would
mean throwing an unskilled
worker to the mercy of an
already crowded labor-market.
And didn’t he go on the land in
the first place because the
boss got in his hair ? What
chance would an easygoing,
independent bloke like this
have in the mad scramble for
a job in the city ? He’d be as
out of place there as a fur-
coat in a nudist camp.
Taking the view that every
industry must stand on its own
feet would mean doing away
with trade-protections, tariff-
barriers, preferentials and other
props, including the butter-
subsidy. To do that would
immediately doom hundreds to
a starvation existence. Poli-
ticians with an eye on the bal-
lot-box are not likely to commit
suicide that way.
The question of the “no-
hoper” dairyfarmer is com-
plex, and however you try
to rectify it someone’s going
to be hurt. And you could
finish with a serious labor-
problem on your hands. These
dairymen are prepared to
sacrifice a bit of income in
exchange for being their own
boss, and, they don’t take
kindly to the idea of pulling up
their roots and leaving their
district and friends.
The amusing part of all the
talk about the efficiency of the
dairyfarmer is that no one takes
time off to talk about the effici-
ency of Governments, where
the waste of money and man-
power is sometimes staggering.
Nor does anyone concern him-
self about the efficiency of big
business, which, if it was better,
could bring an all-round drop
in prices—which would mean
a lot to the man on a low
income, whether he’s on the
land or on the basic wage.
I agree that dairyfarming is
not a game for mugs. For
success, the requisites are
first-class land and a degree
of skill and knowledge far
above that needed in the aver-
age business. On the land you
have to battle not only with
fickle markets but also against
Nature, which can be the most
fickle of the lot. I agree that the
successful dairyfarmer is a
man to be admired ; but
I can still “doff me lid” to the
man who’s struggling along on
a low income, making use of
the land and raising a healthy
family, which is better fed than
a lot of families in the city.
What is more, he is exhibiting
independence, that trait -we
claim to be a true Australian
characteristic. And, strangely
enough, he makes the least
noise of all.
There is one problem in the
industry that must be tackled
soon. What is to be the counter
to substitutes like margarine?


GENUINE TILLEY
SPARE PARTS
FOR LAMPS, LANTERNS, IRONS
AND RADIATORS
Although Import Restrictions may
make it more difficult to obtain
ALL the Tilley Spares you need,
limited supplies of every item
ARE available. If your Store-Keeper
is temporarily unable to
help you, ask him to contact
the Australian Agents :
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LTD.
1092 Mt. Alexander Road, Essendon, W. 5. Victoria
Phone: FX 4747
Whether we like it or not,
margarine is here to stay
and we have to learn 4o live
with it. It looks as if the out-
put of dairy-produce such as
butter will have to be restricted
to present suppliers possibly
by reducing the subsidy on all
new suppliers coming into the
game. This sounds hard, but
at least it hurts no one already
"He's letting the railway-gangs know by signal that the
orchestra will entertain in the Blue Lounge tonight."
committed. Like the problems
already discussed, though, this
is a curly one, too.
[From “Peter Simple’’]
I agree with most of what
“P.H.R.” says (B. 4/11 /’59)
about the value and dignity
of dairyfarming and the virtues
needed by anyone who wishes
to make a success of it. But
a few lazy, indifferent people
have given the industry a bad
name, and it hasn’t been helped
by the stigma inherited from
early days, when metropolitan
daily papers used to send in-
experienced reporters into the
country to gather stories about
children falling asleep in school
because they had had to get-
up at daybreak to milk a
dozen cows.
As “P.H.R.” observes, that
kind of ignorance still persists
among many city folk, and the
city daily press still does every-
thing possible to encourage it.
I milked cows daily from the
age of seven till I was 20, and
walked three miles each way
to school as well, but I can’t
recall ever having fallen asleep
there.
Like many other youngsters
on the N.S.W. North Coast
in the early days, I had to work
hard on the farm in addition
to milking cows and feeding
pigs and calves, but I’m sure
it never did any of us any harm,
On the contary, it gave us an
appreciation -of the value of
hard work and what could be
accomplished by anyone who
put his back into the job. A
little more of this attitude
among the young people of to-
day might help to reduce
“child delinquency.”
Cows are certainly highly
intelligent animals, though
I have found that their intelli-
gence isn’t always co-operative.
Some of the most intelligent
cows I’ve milked have caused
the most trouble, particularly
when they decided to misbe-
have in the bail. If a milker
retaliates when a cow switches
its tail across his face or per-
sists in swinging the end into
the milk-bucket, the chances
are the cow will do it twice as
often. If the milker doesn’t
take any notice, the cow will
probably go on just to see how
long it will be before he gives
the tail a twist or ties it to
the milking-stool to keep it out
of the way. But the moment
he resents its misbehavior, no
amount of persuasion, even a
hefty kick in the ribs, will turn
the cow from its purpose of
continuing to misbehave.
Most cows get used to one
milker and will play-up when
a stranger sits under them. In
the same way a cow which
is always milked first or last
must continue in that order or
will refuse to let its milk down
promptly. Many cows are not
temperamental, of course, but
the really intelligent ones
usually are.
The dairy - industry will
always be hard work, even
though friends and neighbors
will often help-out so that the
family gets at least one after-
noon off a week. Feed has to be
grown and stored against dry
periods ; plenty of good drink-
ing-water is always needed;
and for any sort of a decent
milk-yield in winter, green-
feed must be available for
regular feeding. When I was
young we used to store the
corn-husks and feed them to
the cows during dry spells.
They had little food-value but
were better than nothing.
Those who do best at dairy-
ing today are the fortunate
ones who live in a milk-zone,
where, instead of having to
separate the milk at home and
send the cream to a butter-
factory, they know it will be
collected once or twice a day
by the company’s milk-lorry
for direct sale to customers.
Whatever else may be said
of the dairy-industry, though,
it has a high national and
individual value. Most people
use milk or its products in some
form, and these dairy-products
add greatly to the national
export-income. So anyone who
runs a dairyfarm successfully
should be proud of his occupa-
tion.
Firefighting
“Spin”: Another point or
two worth adding to recent
advice here on firefighting:
See that you’re well covered
with heavy clothing—fire-
brigade officers wear heavy
serge uniforms designed
purposely to protect- their
wearers from the blaze.
In a long spell at a fire watch
for heat-stroke and heat-
exhaustion. Heat-stroke, caused
by a sharp rise in body-
temperature, often due to
inadequate functioning of
sweat-glands, is best treated by
cooling the patient off, between
wet bags if necessary, and then
getting him to a doctor as


® Spraying.
• Dusting.
• Baiting.
• Seeding.
• Spreading.
• Surveying.
• Patrolling.
• Chartering.
• Supply-drops.
It's ALL in
AIRWORK
The Official Monthly
Journal of the nation’s
agricultural aviation
industry.
SUBSCRIPTIONS: Australia,
N.Z., Fiji and New Guinea,
28/-; British Commonwealth,
30/-; Other countries,
35/- (Post-free, annually).
PUBLISHERS: Geoff Taylor
Pty. Ltd., 473 King Street,
Melbourne. FY 3934.
ABOUT COCKROACHES
OLAZINE kills the D,RT ')^ C^
Over a million jars have
been sold'.
NO SPRAYING NO
SMELL.
Just Put on Paper
or in Bottle Tops.
As Supplied to
Dep’t Army and U.S.A. Navy.
CHEMISTS & STORES
SYDNEY.
3/1 per Jar,
4/- Post Free.
from
NICOL CHEMICAL CO.
n
ACH
S' L \oO
...HIS LAST PARTY
TASTY SUPPER >HASTY DEATH
PTY. LTD., Brisbane.
quickly as possible. Heat-
exhaustion, caused by excessive
and prolonged sweating, can be
prevented by putting salt-tablets
in the drinking-water. You can
drink as much water as you
need, provided salt is added.
Zebus Sn the N.T.
“D.C.T.”: I read Michael
Sawtell’s item (B. 28/10/’59)
with interest and admire his
persistent advocacy of northern
development, but I think he’s
astray in what he says about
Port Essington.
Last time I was in the Terri-
tory (1953) Port Essington was
located on the Cobourg Penin-
sula, many miles from the
mouth of the Adelaide River,
which enters the sea at Adam
Bay in Van Dieman’s Gulf.
Further, wild blacks did not
drive the settlers out. The
Imperial Government aban-
doned Port Essington in 1849
because of its cost, and because
expected trade hadn’t even-
tuated.
I don’t agree that the old
Humpty Doo cattle-station
will not fatten cattle. Some
of the country is sour and
parts of it are periodically
flooded, but under intensive
grazing quite a lot is good
fattening country. If put
under Panicum muticum, for
instance, it could become
extremely valuable.
Zebus may have been taken
to Port Essington, though
Windsor Earl, whose Enter-
prise in Tropical Australia is
the best work on the Territory
that I have read, and who
spent quite a long time there,
makes no mention of them.
Even if they had been, it is
extremely doubtful whether
they would have made their
way down to the Adelaide
River. The distance is about
500 miles, much of it bad
country even for Zebus, and
until the settlement at Escape
Cliffs in 1864 there were no
white men there, only plenty
of wild natives, who had
already acquired a taste for
beef and could easily kill a
Zebu.
After reading the Darwin
Residents’ reports from 1881
onwards, I am of the opinion
that the Zebu was brought
over after the settlement of
Port Darwin. The first animals
probably came in the 1870’s. I
agree that a strain incorporat-
ing Zebu blood with British
breeds, whether it be Santa
Gertrudis or Droughtmaster, is
important for the pastoral
economy of North Australia.
Toowoomba Bull Sales
Altogether 160 bulls —106
stud-bulls and 54 herd-bulls —
were sold at the annual bull-
sales at Toowoomba (Q.) early
last month. Top price in the
stud-bull section was 450gns.
for the Poll Hereford Wood-
lands Collar, sold on behalf
of Woodlands Stud, Green-
mount, to A. B. Nixon, of
Devon Court, Drillham. Top
Hereford bull made 360gns.
Forty-eight stud Poll Here-
ford bulls averaged 210gns. and
58 stud Hereford bulls averaged
184gns. The Inverary group of
Poll Hereford bulls, from the
stud owned by J. H. Anderson
and Sons, sold to 425gns. and
averaged 387ygns.
Success on
Marginal Land
“M’Lou”: Thirteen years
ago Bill Goyder, of Apsley
(Vic.), bought 800 acres of
marginal land which was then
going cheap because it was
little improved and had only a
two-roomed “homestead.”
He had to fence-off four
miles of shire road which ran
through the land, and the
unusual seven-strand fences of
tensile 12-gauge wire, which he
tautened by hand, have been a
good investment. They are
stockproof, deter dogs and
remain taut; in fact, they have
all the advantages of large-
mesh fencing, but cost con-
siderably less.
When he bought the land
Goyder found that pure seed of
many pasture-species was prac-
tically unobtainable, so he dis-
regarded conventional farm-
staples of hay, oats'and wheat;
instead, he concentrated on
growing and cleaning the seed
of pasture-plants more suitable
for his locality. He now has a
worldwide market for his
certified seed.
With the help of neighbors
he built-up a plant for seed-
harvesting, cleaning, grading
and bagging—mostly standard
machinery, but some his own
ideas, like the magnetic separa-
tor for removing sand and
stone and the rubber-tyred bag-
trolleys for handling and
weighing.
When the Commonwealth
authorities imported a new
variety of cocksfoot from
Africa they called on Goyder
for the mechanical harvesting
of the seed. This variety, known
in Australia as Currie-cocks-
foot, has an undergrown crown
and, being immune to fire and
rabbits, is ideal for marginal
land.
One of Goyder’s most profi-
table crops is Phalaris tuberosa,
which he grazes and makes into
hay. Baled hay from 12 acres
of this crop lay so thickly that
he couldn’t drive the truck into
the paddock and turn round,
but had to back through the
gate for the first load! His
first harvest of Phalaris- seed
was 1| ton, but subsequent
pasture-improvement gave him
7y tons, even after last
summer’s bushfire. As pasture,
though, he says there’s nothing
better than Wimmera-rye in
the right mixture.
He grows only Mt. Barker
sub.-clover for himself, but
cleans seed of other varieties
for neighbors. Other useful
pasture-plants he cultivates are
Canadian purple-vetch and the
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(19/11/’59)
In Queensland rainfall should vary from moderate to
good during December, although part of the far-south-
western districts may get only light rain. Heaviest falls, with
consequent flooding, are likely on the Peninsula and in
north-coastal, north-western and part of the south-western
districts.
N.S.W. should receive moderate to good rains during
December, with heaviest falls on the lower South Coast,
Southern Tablelands and South-west Slopes and in part of
the Riverina. Good general rains are indicated in January,
heavy in the northern areas and heaviest on the North Coast.
Victoria should have moderate to good rains during
December, with best falls in the east-central and north-
eastern districts, though the Mallee and Wimmera may have
only light rains. There should be reasonably good rains in
January and February.
South Australia may expect poor rainfall during'
December, apart from moderate rain in the upper and lower
north. Rainfall may be patchy during January and February,
and looks like being generally below normal during 1960.
Rainfall may be poor in most of Western Australia
during December, although there should be good general
rains in January.
LENNOX WALKER.


'Phenovis' Brand of Phenoihiaztn*
THESE ARE THE
about
HIGH PURITY
phenothiazine
sheep drench
Manufactured to very
high purity.
Micronized to extra
fineness.
Formulated for easy
mixing and use.
W-
Positive control of all
major worms in all sheep.
Tf Maximum efficiency against
:CJ Black Scour Worm and
Small Brown Stomach
Worm.
The only phenothiazine
_ sheep drench with
AUTHENTIC proof of its
HIGH PURITY formulation.
am
J.
FF!CttV«
»•* ,;_**£*
**2*ll***!?
*+mk.9nra&
<5O
’ /
Insist on the
HIGH PURITY
phenothiazine
sheep drench,
'PHENOVIS'
available from
your local
ICI Supplier.
PHE.96X.6278
new creeping, or dry-country,
lucerne, which is not affected
by frost or mite and, having an
underground crown, withstands
bushfires. He also grows dun-
peas and field-peas, white-peas
(for sausage-making) and rye-
corn.
His programme of pasture-
improvement is based logically
on chemical analysis of the
soil —he uses copper, for
instance, to counter the typical
excess of molybdenum found
in western Victoria —but he's
ready to experiment with any
feed or cereal crop likely to suit
marginal conditions. He raises
Hereford cattle and crossbred
sheep on his property as well.
New Journal
“Jaygee”: Under the
auspices of the Australian
Agricultural Council the Aus-
tralian Institute of Agricul-
tural Science plans to produce
a quarterly journal describing
the results of latest agricul-
tural and pastoral experiments.
It promises to be valuable
both to landholders and agri-
cultural scientists, and of a
kind suitable to be filed for
reference. The Rural Credits
Development Fund of the
Commonwealth Bank has made
a grant to set the paper afloat,
and the production bill —there’s
to be a full-time editor and
staff —will be footed by the
Federal and State Govern-
ments.
Cotton in Queensland
“Swing”: In Queensland,
where plantings of cotton are
expected to be about 80 per
cent, higher than last year,
greatest expansion is occurring
south of Bundaberg, especially
on the Darling Downs, around
Miles, Wandoan, Dalby,
Jandowae and St. George.
- The reason for this swing
to cotton on the western
Darling Downs is that many
grain-growers consider it a
more profitable summer crop
than grain-sorghum. Also, the
increased plantings on the
Downs show that farmers there
are looking for a new crop,
and the area under cotton in
the Jandowae, Miles and Wan-
doan districts is expected to be
about 7000 acres, compared
with 1500 last year.
Around Bundaberg, too, the
cotton-crop has increased —the
area was 200 acres last year
and will be 2000 acres this
season.
In all districts farmers have
been working to get their crops
sown early. Because of the
generally dry winter they had
to wait for the recent rains
to enable them to prepare the
land. Experience shows that
October - planted crops give
yields often three times as
heavy as December plantings.
Last season a rain-grown
crop yielding more than
13001 b. an acre was produced
by R. Loakes, of Malmoe, near
Eidsvold, where 90 acres
returned 295 bales containing
121,9501 b. of seed-cotton.
This Malmoe crop sup-
ported evidence from other dis-
tricts that early planting is a
necessity. Unfortunately, no
bale-counts were made; but
10 acres of Empire planted
early in December contributed
only one 4001 b. bale an acre
to the ultimate yield. The main
planting was made in October,
with a further 20 acres sown
in November. If the late-
planted Empire had yielded at
the same rate as the remainder
of the crop it would have
returned well over three bales
to the acre.
Crosscut
“Olivia”: Landrace pigs
have been more than a Show
topic in Tassie, both at Hobart
and at Launceston. The wife
of one exhibitor she’s a
trained nurse—refuses to go to
bed these days when a happy
event is expected in the sty!
With piglets bringing 850gns.
each, she regards this as
the most profitable maternity
nursing ever. A sow is worth
up to £3500.
Farm Hints
“Cawah”: After using a
fertiliser-distributor, run a bag
of agricultural lime through it.
This will grind off any rough
deposits of fertiliser, and also
the calcium-carbonate will
neutralise the acid of the ferti-
liser and prevent corrosion.
“Brian”: A Stanthorpe (Q.)
orchardist claims to have in-
vented Australia’s first selective
pruner for fruit-trees —a port-
able machine with two air-
hoses and an air-pressure
cutting-head which prunes
heavy-wood trees from four to
12 years old. The machine has
been demonstrated to junior
farmers and should be on sale
within six months.


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1S0& in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(England)
N.B.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest' of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A, EISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Copy of senior-class photograph
taken at Ballina (N.S.W.) Public
School in 1906. (Headmaster Mr.
H. B. Squire).—69o6.
Does Anybody Know?
Whether there are any paddle-
wheel steamers still going strong
anywhere in Australia?
Information Sought
A few hints on painting a cement
wall ?
Best not to apply paint to new
cement, since this contains an
alkali which causes the paint to lie
on the surface in a treacle-like
form. The paint never really dries,
staying in a wet, sticky condition.
Untreated cement-work shouldn’t
be painted until it is about two
years old, unless you use cold-water
paint, limewash, or one of the
special proprietary lines of paint.
Surfaces can be prepared for
ordinary paint by applying two
coats of sulphate-of-zinc. When
dry, brush the surface to remove
all crystals, and then paint in the
ordinary way. For a satisfactory
priming-coat for weathered cement-
work, mix one part of red-lead
with two parts titanium-zinc paste.
*** f *
Which countries are Canada’s
leading trading-partners ?
Canada’s trade with other coun-
tries, particularly the U.S. and the
U.K., is based on an exchange of
Canada’s natural resources, un-
worked or partially-processed, for
the labor and capital tied-up in the
highly-finished manufactured goods
which make-up the bulk of imports.
The U.S. is the chief export-
market for Canadian goods and
the chief source of imports for
Canada. Exports to the U.S. con-
sist mainly of industrial materials
“It's called Super Executive because it provides more
space to keep cleared."
in inadequate supply in that
country —especially forest products
and minerals, although fish and
farm-implements are also of great
importance. Imports from the U.S.
co/isist chiefly of manufactured
products such as industrial
machinery and automobile-parts,
and natural products not available
in Canada —cotton, citrus-fruits,
and fresh vegetables out-of-season.
The U.K. ranks second both as
an export market and as a source
of imports. Principal- exports to
the U.K. include grains, metals
and forest products, while imports
are primarily manufactured goods
such as machinery, electrical
apparatus and textiles. Trade with
most European countries and with
Japan is similar in character.
Manufactured goods are of greater
importance in sales to Latin-
American countries and to many
Commonwealth countries, and
imports from these countries are,
generally speaking, largely natural
products which cannot be efficiently
produced under Canadian climatic
and physiographic conditions.
* * * *
What’s the best time to transplant
pepper-trees ?
Winter. Seedlings 4in. to 6in.
high suffer the least setback. When
the plant is a year or so older
cut it well back first and remove
with a good ball of earth around
its roots. Have the new site
prepared and well soaked with
water before slipping the tree into
it. Firm the earth well down.
Once the tree shows it’s well estab-
lished, add a one-inch mulch of
rotted manure to the topsoil.
Water regularly for the first year.
Don’t let it grow straggly, but
prune to good shade-casting form.
Pepper-trees are hardy, rarely
affected by drought. They are
good friends to stock when winds
are bitter or temperatures soaring.
* * * *
Biographical details of Henri
Verbrugghen, one-time director of
the N.S.W. State Conservatorium ?
He was born at Brussels on
August 1, 1873, and studied violin
at the Brussels Conservatory
under Hubay and Ysaye. In 1893
he settled in Scotland as a member
of the Scottish orchestra. Early in
1915 he was appointed director of
the N.S.W. State Conservatorium,
and he arrived in Sydney in the
same year. He got together a
remarkably fine orchestra,-and for
six years his influence on the
musical life of Sydney was of out-
standing importance. Because of
financial trouble, the orchestra was
disbanded in 1921, and Verbrugghen
went to America, where he became
permanent conductor of the
Minneapolis Symphony Orchestra.
From September, 1933, he was
chairman of the department of
music at Carleton College, North-
field. Minnesota. He died at
Northfield on November 12, 1934.
N
Brief Answers
H.H.M.: Largest cattle-station
in Australia (and in the world) is
Alexandria Downs. Its area is
11,000 square-miles. It is situated
in the Northern Territory, adjoin-
ing the border of Queensland —
actually between Brunette Downs
and the border. Its carrying-
capacity varies with seasonal condi-
tions ; the latest estimate is that
there are 75,000 head of cattle at
present on the station. Brunette
Downs adjoins Alexandria Downs
and its area is 3507 square-miles.
R.J.R.: Usual method of
estimating the quantity of silage a
silo will hold is to assume that
two cubic-yards of settled silage
will weigh one ton. Capacity of
a silo 20ft. in diameter and 28ft.
high would be: —
22 10 10 28 1 1
X—X—X X x -
7 1 1 1 27 2
equals 162.9 tons “Kesem” :
“Lasca” help appreciated....
K.C.: Thanks for your help. So
far a copy of the poem hasn’t
turned-up. Our inquirer would no
doubt appreciate it very much if
you could locate the poem
A.C.McD., A.C.S., W.G.O’D.:
Thanks for “Lasca” information.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered jor publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
K.T.C.: That’s the first rain-
and-drought poem that has tempted
us for many a day... .C.M.G.:
But that’s the same old rain-poem
everyone writes... .L.J.H.: Gavin
Casey did that much more forcibly
in a short-story... .G.V.K.: Out of
period, but it’s not a bad song at
a 11... .G.L.P.: Storms, like sunsets,
are a difficult subject on which to
say anything fresh... .U. 8.: Why
the archaic language? And anyhow
you’ve got your “doths” and
“dosts” mixed-up... .K.F.: Feel-
ing, but slight... .Faraway: Fairly
far 8.H.: It has the distinction
of b'eing the only poem ever
written on Simmonds; but it’s
elusive... .V.H.C.: Yeats said,
“Use the natural words in their
natural order.” Are you wise to
defy him? F. 8.: Your own
observations on Australia, not the
ghost of Paterson’s, would be
more to the point... .N.S.:
Propel it rapidly to the m00n....
F.S.: “The poem has a typical
bush accent in it.” H’m:
"Not long ago ’e went ta war,
0 that ah’m sure ya know.
In ’im ah ’ad a loyal son
An’ this sure wuz a blow . . .
W.D.: You seem to be
struggling towards saying something
which might be worth saying
K.J.F.: You have observation —
clouded by far too many words.
. ...J.C.W.: Pleasant enough, but
verse isn’t as easy as- all that....
8.8. W.: The waltzing sandpipers
are a bit too much to take....
D. 8.: Well, it’s original... .C.S.:
Butterflies pretty but flimsy.


Now in Book-form
"Duke" Triton's
“TIME MEANS TUCKER”
tv
i "*
o
Vi-
r v
WN
«\r
z
.r 1 . •
vrr
This factual account of a shearer-drover’s experiences
in the sheds and on the track has proved to be one of
the most popular serials ever printed in “The Bulletin.”
Reader-demand for the story in book-form has been
constant.
It’s now off the press —and the price has been kept
down to 10s. a copy, post free.
This first edition (a large one, to satisfy the expected
demand from readers who recognise the book’s value as
a Christmas gift) is available only from “The Bulletin.”
PLEASE USE COUPON BELOW.
Available also over-the-counter from branch offices in
Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth.
ORDER FORM
Book Department,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please post copy/copies of
"TIME MEANS TUCKER"
by H. P. (“Duke”) Tritton
NAME .
\
ADDRESS -
STATE,
Price per copy, 10s.
(Post free ) Amount enclosed...
New Recordings
Sawn-off L.-p.s
Latest batch of. Coronet’s
“Gems from the Shows” —the
midget 33’s which could be
described as sawn-off 1.-p.s and
which hold the highlights of
earlier successful 12in. disks
of Broadway musicals
includes Showboat (KGC 409)
and Pal Joey (KGC 410).
Kern’s songandance version
of the Edna Ferber best-
seller needs no introduction,
and four of the “picks” in this
collection virtually pick them-
selves.
The first two, “Only Make
Believe” and “Why Do I Love
You?”, are sung by Jan Clay-
ton and Charles Frederick with
appropriate sentiment and tune-
ful yearning; Kenneth
Spencer reverberates Paul
Robeson’s “Of Man River”
and (with Carol Bruce and
Helen Dowdy) “Can’t Help
Lovin’ Dat Man.”
The final number, .“Bill”
(Carol Bruce), reminds one that
P. G. Wodehouse had a hand
in Showboat. He wrote the
words for this song. Oscar
Hammerstein 11, of course, did
most of the other lyrics.
Pal Joey has nothing in
common with Showboat, but
all its characters have one thing
in common with Of Man River
—they don’t plant ’taters and
they don’t plant cotton. For
that matter they don’t do any-
thing useful at all, and are
completely amoral, hard-boiled
and mid-20th-century. But
that didn’t prevent Rodgers and
Hart from weaving a long-run
Broadway musical around
them.
KGC 410 carries four
numbers from the 1950 revival
of the show: “I Could Write a
Book” ; the catchy little
“Bewitched” (bothered and
bewildered); “Zip” (in which
a strip-tease artist tells what
zips through her mind while
unzipping); and “In Our Little
Den of Iniquity” (occupants
of love-nest tell all).
❖ *X*
Liberace’s Christmas
There are 12 Christmas
pieces on Coronet’s 12in.
Christmas at Liberace s
(KLP 734); he has combed
a lot of the fur out of his
voice since his London law-
suit, and speaks the old poem,
“ 'Twas the Night Before
Christmas” and a piece on “The
Beauty of Holiness” quite
creditably ; as he also sings the
old rhyme “Starl.ght, star
bright.... I wish I get my wish
tonight,” to the most famous
of Brahms’s waltzes.
He does an astonishing
piano - and - orchestra “Ave
Maria,” which begins Gounod,
becomes Schubert, and ends
Gounod, and which manages to
efface completely the Bach pre-
lude on which Gounod’s is
constructed and the leaping
arpeggio-accompaniment which
is half the effect of Schubert’s.
But the little tinkling solo at
the end of the first side, on the
carol “Deck the Hall” and the
last piece on the second side,
“Gesu Bambino,” are charm-
ing.
*• * *
Cockroaches, etc.
Percy Faith seems to spend
most of his time investigating
the music of various countries,
and his disks show that he
often gets to the musical heart
of such places as Spain, Cuba
and Latin America. His
orchestra is good on “special
effects” ; if it ever appeared at
a free Schools’ Orchestral
Concert Mr. Faith would be
assured of a riotous ovation.
Coronet has issued a little
45 r.p.m. disk (KEP 209) titled
Viva: The Music of Mexico;
and while it’s a bit hard to
believe that Mexico has only
four musical numbers it is
pleasant to hear them rolled out
by Faith.
The best thing on the disk
is “La Cucaracha,” the Mexi-
can cockroach - song. This
reviewer isn’t an authority on
cockroaches and the sort of
sound they make; the best
cockroach, in his opinion, is
one that has been cornered and
dealt with. But Percy Faith
has obviously studied them in
great detail, for the sound —a
sort of nervous reedy cackle
seems cockroachy enough. It
may be produced by a cor
anglais reed ; then again it may
not, the jacket being silent on
such details.
Other numbers are “Estrel-
lita,” “Be Mine Tonight” and
“Mexican Hat Dance.” The
hats don’t make any noise at
all.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
Hustling crowds, harassed mothers and
excited children are harbingers of
Christmas-around - the - corner. Colored
lights are already up, “the largest Father
Christmas in the Southern Hemisphere”
is keeping guard over the city from his
vantage-point on the front of a city
store, and gifts to tempt the taste of
every age are in shop-windows. But
feeble-minded vandals are proof against
the Christmas spirit—they had a crack
at the newest addition to the city, the
Southgate Fountain.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Henry Bolte stole the limelight
from her husband at an investiture at
Government House. But the Premier
looked rather pleased as he sat on the
dais in the ballroom and watched the
Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, create Mrs.
Bolte a Companion of the Order of the
British Empire. The honor was a recogni-
tion of her services to the State through
the Girl Guide Movement and in various
fields of charitable work.
Lady Brooks, who accompanied her
husband into the ballroom, looked cool
and attractive in a frock of pure silk
patterned in tones of deep-blue flowers.
Also on the dais with her Air-Vice-
Marshal husband was Mrs. Walters, who
chose an ensemble of black silk-faille
topped with a high-crowned hat of white
tulle. Among the many women invested
by his Excellency were Mrs. G. C.
Scantlebury and Dr. Doris Officer, Miss
Doiothy Ross (former headmistress of
Melbourne C. of E. Girls Grammar
School), Mrs. E. C. Wackett and Mrs.
C. H. Tutton.
Among those who watched the in-
vestiture was pretty Wilma Dooley, who
was at Government House to see her
father get his M.B.E. Wilma’s attractive
frock was of navy-blue linen, topped
with a short jacket trimmed with white
braid ; her white flower-cap was finished
with a wide-mesh navy-blue veil. Mrs.
R. F. G. Fogarty, wearing a delphinium-
blue heavy French-lace frock and hat
of lighter blue trimmed with organdie
roses, was accompanied by her daughter,
Mrs. W. Overton. They were there to
see Mr. Fogarty receive his C.B.E. Mrs.
Donald Anderson (another C.B.E.’s wife)
wore an attractive white frock patterned
in large green flowers.
☆ ☆ ☆
University Chancellor Mr. Justice
Dean and Mrs. Dean were hosts to 380
at Union House for the annual at-home.
Urns of delphiniums, peony-roses, iris
and gladioli, mixed with prunus-leaves,
were delightfully arranged in the exten-
sively reconstructed reception-room. Host
and hostess were assisted by their
daughters, Mrs. lan Tulloch and Mrs.
Max Whiteside, who were accompanied
by their medico-husbands. Lady Paton,
w ? fe of vice . chancellor sir George
Paton, was with her daughter Mrs.
Linley Mills (recently returned .from
Eng i and) and Heather Paton. 6ther
g Ue sts were the Lord and Lady Mayoress,
Er and Mrs. Bernard Evans; Sir
William and Lady Upjohn (whose son
John had just received his F.R.C.S.
degree in London); Legislative Council
president Sir Gordon McArthur and
Lady M cArthur ; M r. j ust ice Monahan
and Mrs. Monahan ; Sir Norman and
Lady OVBryan . Judge and Mrs. J. G.
Norris ; Judge Barry and his wife ; Sir
Charles and Lady Lowe, their son-in-law
and daughter, Dr. and Mrs. J. J. Warke ;
and the Consul for the Republic of
China, Mr. Leung, and Madame'" Leung.
Born in England, actress Muriel
Pavlow received most of her education
there, but finished-off in Switzerland,
where she learnt to speak perfect French.
She began her theatrical career early,
under the management of Sir Charles
Cochran, with a walk-on part in “The
Old Maid," starring Lillian Gish. Muriel
Pavlow has appeared on stage with a
number of well-known stars, including
Dame Marie Tempest, Sir John Gielgud,
the famous Luhis, Robert Newton and
Alec Guinness. She met her husband,
Derek Farr, when he starred in “Quiet
Wedding” with Margaret Lockwood.
Muriel had a small part in that play.
Later the couple starred together in
“The Shop at Sly Corner.” That was in
1947, when they fell in love and married.
Muriel played opposite Dirk Bogarde in
“Doctor In The House,” and with Ken-
neth More in “Reach for the Sky.”
Both Muriel and her husband are making
their Australian stage debut in “The
Gazebo.”
The Davis Cup, a beautiful example
of the silversmith’s art, naturally held
place of honor at the Lord. Mayor’s
reception to the victorious Australian
Davis Cup team. International and
inter-State tennis-players were among the
guests, and one of the highlights of a
most delightful party was a witty speech
by Harry Hopman before asking Neale
Fraser to thank Cr. and Mrs. Bernard
Evans for giving the reception. A deep
navy-blue cotton-frock and matching
bolero in a floral design of moss-green
and cinnamon was worn by Mrs. Evans ;
her tiny curvette was in cinnamorr velvet.
Among the guests were Judge and Mrs.
Fraser (Neale’s parents) and Sir Norman
and Dame Mabel Brookes.
Well-known sportsmen present in-
cluded lan Johnson and Walter Lindrum
(accompanied by Mrs. Lindrum). Mr.
and Mrs. Louis Sallman were there, she
most attractive in a hydrangea-blue
French-lace frock and small blue-and-
white flower-hat. Mrs. Louis Sallman,
jnr., was with them, her honey-toned
linen-frock having inserts of matching
embroidery in the bodice. Mr. and Mrs.
Ronald Evans were among the guests,
she wearing a white cotton frock in
green-floral pattern. A London visitor
with Mrs. Eric Rogers was Lady
Macpherson. Also there were Mrs. Alan
Faulkner, Mrs. John Inkster, Mrs. Leslie
Fox, Mrs. Maurice Nathan, Mrs. Leo
Curtis and Mrs. John Buchan.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Australian-American Association’s
luncheon and reception at the Royale
Ballroom to honor Thanksgiving Day
drew 400 guests. Behind the official
table were the flags of the two countries,
and the long table, set on a dais, was
decorated with red, white and blue
flowers. As in the days of the Pilgrim
Fathers, turkey was served, but the tradi-
tional pumpkin-pie was replaced by ice-
cream. The guest-speaker, Trade and
Customs Minister McEwen, was accom-
panied by Mrs. McEwen, who chose a
white silk frock patterned in a scatter-
design of pale-cinnamon roses and a
small white hat finished with white roses.
Association president Sir John Latham
and Lady Latham (whose black-and-
beige-printed frock was worn with a
wide-brimmed natural-straw hat swathed
with matching chiffon) received the
official guests, among whom were
the president of the women’s group,
Mrs. R. G. Casey ; Education Min-
ister John Bloomfield and Mrs.
Bloomfield; U.S. Consul W. Ryan
and Mrs. Ryan ; and the president of
the Junior A.-A.A., Andre Papp. Other
guests were Lady Wackett, Mrs. Charles
Disney, Lady Storey, Lady Holyman,
Lady Steele, Lady Coates, Mrs. Karl
Kumm and Mrs. Lytton Stephens.
For the Junior A.-A.A’s dinner-dance
at Ciro’s, held to celebrate Thanksgiving
Day, a large gold eagle on the wall was
set above a huge golden horn-of-plenty
filled with Australian primary produce,
whilst sheaves of wheat decorated indi-
vidual tables. Despite a broken leg
(from a ski-ing accident), association
president Andre Papp received the guests


with vice-president Barbara Zinnow, who
was attractive in a short sheath-frock of
turquoise-blue satin, the skirt of which
was hand-painted in a gold design.
Among guests at this very pleasant func-
tion were Jan Newman, whose white
Chantilly-lace frock was mounted on
taffeta and highlighted with a gold-satin
cummerbund ; Margaret Atkinson, whose
black-and-white printed frock carried a
kingfisher-blue satin-sash ; Judy Gundill,
wearing a frock of beige lace.
SYDNEY
Despite the high humidity, gay parties
were a feature thoroughly enjoyed in
the first full week of real summer
weather. One of the brightest was given
by the Torch Bearers for Legacy, when
guests included press, radio and TV
people. Mrs. Lionel McFadyen, who
welcomed everyone at the door (where
quaint and attractive Christmas-decora-
tions were featured), looked cool and
attractive in a pure-silk dress of water-
marked green and grey tonings; her
shoes were of the same lovely material.
Among those who helped make the night
a very pleasant one were Mrs. Ron
Thompson, Mrs. McAlister, Mrs. John
Dyneley-Fell, Mrs. N. W. Giddings, Mrs.
Frank Eagle, Mrs. E. J. Henty, Mrs.
Harold Bottomley, Mrs. Gonninan,
Mrs. W. J. Smith (she is president of the
Naughty Nineties Committee which
works for the same cause) and Mrs.
G. I. D. Hutcheson.
During the evening there was great
joy when it was announced that the net
proceeds of the Ampol World Cham-
pions Professional Tennis Tournament,
at White City courts, Rushcutter’s Bay,
on the night of December 8, would be
given to Torch Bearers for Legacy funds.
This will be a gala-evening.
Jack Crawford and Adrian Quist are
to umpire two of the singles matches,
and Eric Baume will be Master of
Ceremonies
☆ ☆ ☆
Even a Scrooge must have been im-
pressed with the beauty of the Christmas-
decorations arranged in the exhibition
by Mrs. Wilfred Fairfax and her com-
mittee-members to aid funds of the
Forest Lodge Day Nursery. It was
officially opened \at David Jones’ Art
Gallery by Mr. George Molnar at a
sherry-party, and seems likely to attract
huge crowds of viewers; impartial
critics consider it the loveliest yet held.
To describe it adequately would require
several visits ; one’s mind failed to find
sufficient adjectives after the first few
entries had been inspected. The stage-
setting was by Leslie Walford, a symbolic
procession of the Wise Men. One entry,
“Ice Bound,” immediately suggested a
fairy-ship “whose masts were made of
silver.”
Then, in appearance no less attractive,
there was the bachelor’s Christmas
dinner-party, where the table-setting was
a delightful combination of mono-
grammed silver, crystal goblets, red
candles and deep-blue cloth.
The exhibition will remain open until
December 4, and visitors can watch
angels being made from gold and colored
paper (with facial expressions that range
from the meek and mild to the piquant),
and those who doubt their own skill at
manufacture can buy them ready-made
for gifts or home-decorations. Apart
from the colorful presentation, the cause
is one with special seasonable appeal.
Attractive 18-year-old Patricia Dalton,
only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. H.
Dalton, of Seaforth, has been re-elected
secretary of the Manly-Warringah
Spastic Centre Younger Set. Its members
are all working hard for their gala
barbecue at Bungan Beach on December
19. Patricia, who has always been keenly
interested in helping along the cause of
handicapped children, was the entrant
of Manly Sailing Club in the recent Miss
Australia Quest, conducted to aid funds
of the Spastic Children’s Association.
She’s the outdoor type, keen
ming and golfing, and works as a
secretary in a city office. Her ambition is
to travel overseas on a working-holiday.
Picture by Norton-Trevaire.
Frosted balloons and beautiful flowers
were a feature of decorations at the
Australasian Pioneers' Club on Friday
night, when president Malcolm Ellis and
his fellow-members gave a Christmas-
party. Mrs. Ellis helped her husband
receive guests, and looked charming in
a black sheath-dress and small hat of
pink roses. Mrs. R. Vallack, president
of the Australasian Women’s Pioneer
Society, was in pink chiffon, and secre-
tary Miss Lois King-Kemp wore blue
silk printed in a small white pattern.
Among those contributing to the gaiety
(and to the fascinating chat about pioneer
ancestors) were Mr. and Mrs. James
Kemp (her bitter-sweet silk-organza
dress was appliqued with lace), Mrs. D.
Boydell, Mrs. Ray Stewart, Mrs. Dawes,
house-committee chairman Mr. T. Stone,
Judge and Mrs. McKillop, Mr. and Mrs.
L. Dibbs and Mr. and Mrs. Cooper.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mr. and Mrs. H. P. (“Duke”) Tritton
Celebrated their golden-wedding anni-
versary on Saturday with a party, at
which about 40 of their 68 descendants
were present. The function served a
dual purpose, for it celebrated the pub-
lishing of “Duke’s” book, Time Means
Tucker, by The Bulletin, and congratu-
lations were, therefore, proffered in double
measure.
As well as the Tritton clan, guests
included bushmen, goldfields diggers,
neigbors, friends from The Bulletin
and members of the Bush Music Club.
The dancing opened to the music of
“Click Go The Shears,” played on
accordion and tin-whistle with vigor and
perfect timing, and in the carefree spirit
of the very enjoyable party.
☆ ☆ ☆
Wide and handsome were the hats
worn by women-guests at one side of
the official table at the Thanksgiving
Day luncheon of the Australian-Ameri-
can Association on Thursday. Small and
dainty styles predominated on the other
side, and afforded a pleasing study of
contrasts. Mrs. Keith Yorston, whose
husband is association-president, chose a
wide-brimmed hat of petunia-pink straw
to go with her grey silk-suit. Mrs. lan
Jacoby, president of the women’s com-
mittee, was in a cool-looking white
waffle - pique dress, embroidered with
hand-worked cherry-sprays, and a large,
shady hat of the same material. Ameri-
can Ambassador Sebald made the trip
here from Canberra to be present. Special
guests were Mr. and Mrs. T. L. Elliott
(he is assistant vice-president of the
Matson Line), who arrived in Sydney
just in time to be present. Mrs. Paul
Nelson was there with her husband, the
president of the American Society, whose
members continued the day’s celebra-
tions with a dinner at the American
Club, following a church-service at St.
Stephen’s, Macquarie Street.
☆ ☆ ☆
If you plan to kiss the Blarney-stone
on your visit to Ireland it might be a
good idea to start a course of back-
bending exercises beforehand. Judging
from the report given by Mrs. F. E.
Thatcher, of Bellevue Hill, such limber-
ing-up would be necessary to follow out
the ritual prescribed for visitors to
Blarney Castle, Cork, where the famous
stone is set high up in the wall, and
over a precipice! Mrs. Thatcher, who
was accompanied by her daughter,
Gloria, was away for eight months. With
headquarters at a London flat, they
found after travelling leisurely through
Spain and the Continent that they loved
Ireland best of all. There was, of course,
added interest in their visit to that
country ; they stayed overnight at the
house where her father had lived as
a boy, when his father was Anglican
Dean of Cross-Molina, in County Mayo.
Since their return to Sydney, both Mrs.
Thatcher and Gloria have been caught-
up in a round of welcome-home parties.


paused to draw breath for the
final bellow. “Take your hand
off the bloody receiver-
bracket.”
Harry knew the one-way
conversation was detected and
the game was up.
“Right - oh! Right - oh!
Right - oh! Take your tucker.
There’s only ten of your
twenty minutes left, anyhow.”
“Ten minutes be damned!”
Crusty exploded. “Our tucker-
time starts from now. You
can answer for the last ten
minutes, you argumentative
old fool.”
“But” spluttered Harry.
“Put the bifly in, mate,”
shouted Crusty to Bricky, his
fireman. That worthy was
already drawing the billy out
of the firebox, having seen his
mate well on the winning side.
A ll Harry could do now
was to watch the minutes
ticking by on the station clock.
After a quarter-of-an-hour he
heard the expected ring from
Train Control.
“Is that train out of yours
yet?” Harry was asked.
“No,” Harry moaned and
started to explain.
“What!” yelled Control, not
waiting for explanations. “His
running-time has expired now.
It’ll be too late to send him.
I’m going to send the junction
train to you from Wanderii.”
Old Harry could hardly
bear it. The terminal train
stood idle here to torment
him. Now the junction train
was coming over.
But this was only a pre-
liminary.
“Dong! Dong! Dong!”
belled the attention-code on the
staff instrument from Pilibar,
the station on the other side.
Harry lifted the staff-phone
receiver.
“Yeah?” he barked.
“Oh, Harry,” came the
mocking sing-song voice from
the Pilibar stationmaster. “I’ve
got news for you. The live-
stock special has just left me
and it’s now heading towards
you. And it’s got fifty trucks
on.”
The phone nearly fell out
of Harry’s hand. Three trains
crossing at Banderong! To
Harry it was maddening.
Then he realised that the
trucks in the shed-road were
fouling No. 2 road, as he had
pulled them out, ready, with
the horse this morning. They
would now have to be pulled
back again.
He whistled shrilly for the
old horse. But somehow the
old nag had more than fulfilled
the station motto. It had
moved and kept on moving.
Where? Harry couldn't see.
Now what?
He thought-up some quick
moves. Yes, he would push
the shed trucks in with the
engine of the junction train.
That would be o.k. But how
was he to cross the stock-
special when No. 2 road only
held 40 trucks. Yet another
idea took shape, involving the
use of all three engines to clear
the place of trains within an
hour. Harry determinedly
swore it would work.
At 12.30 p.m. the opening
act was staged. The terminal
train was the central highlight,
and at the Up and Down
arrival-signals the junction and
the stock-special trains stood
ready to enter the scene. Harry
was the red-faced director-
producer calling the cue.
There were no first-act
preambles with old Harry. His
soul craved action, and after
the third move the junction
train lost its identity altogether.
The terminal train had an
engine both ends and one in
the middle, and the stock
special contained all three
guard’s-vans.
But Harry stuck doggedly
to it. The whole of the shed-
road got onto the main line
and the stock special became
reversed, and faced whence it
came. Harry reckoned he must
be getting somewhere near it.
'T'he grand shunting
manoeuvres didn’t pass
unnoticed. Townspeople
drifted along to join the six-
deep gallery already on the
platform. A line of urchins
perched on the station-roof
mistook Harry’s gyrations in
hand-signalling for a dramatic
gesture to the grandstand, and
they sent up successive cheers
in response.
About eight-o’clock the
whole show stopped. The three
train-guards met up for the
first time, shook hands like
long-lost brothers and, after
bowing to the mob, asked each
other what was doing. None
of them knew, and far less
did they know where old
Harry had got to.
Meantime the mob became
uneasy, chanting “We want
Harry! ”
But old Harry had disap-
peared.
It was midnight before the
guards sorted out the tangle.
And it was one o’clock before
a relieving stationmaster
arrived to carry-on. The police-
constable and a search-party
were still looking for Harry.
It took six burly spud-
merchants to get Harry back
out of the scrub and it also
took the hospital a week to
quieten him down. During this
time he had tried to throw
everything movable out the
ward-room window. They
made Harry a temporary
fixture.
No one really knows where
Harry is now. Some say the
railways recruit their superin-
tendents from demented
stationmasters, and that Harry
is serving thus somewhere in
the north-east district. Again,
there are tales of a swift-
moving bagman pacing trains
on the east-west line. But
wherever he is, his legend
remains at Banderong. He is
the only stationmaster who has
shunted trains for eight hours
and failed to Keep ’em Moving.
And that, to a man like Harry,
must have been the last straw.
THE HOLLIDAYS
“But you ought to ’ve seen the one that flew away !”


to be told (once more) that we all
hate policemen, we are all good mates,
we all respect women, we are all
gamblers and we are all cultured and
uncultured (No. 7), but obviously this
is not true of those who love police-
men, are bad mates and are not cul-
tured or uncultured as the case may
be; while surely we cannot claim a
world-monopoly of gambling or respect
for women.
It is very nice, again, to be told that
the men all huddle at one end of the
dance-hall while the women all huddle
at the other end. and that this is not
so much due to the men’s “selfish
hedonism” as to the fact that “so far
as the females are concerned they are
almost entirely bereft of non-sexual
small talk”; but is not the vital factor
here not so much Australianness as
lack of education, among those who do
lack education? What do uneducated
women anywhere talk about, if not
about sex?
Similar doubts arise when Baker
turns to literary generalisations. It
seems at first glance a most interesting
discovery that hardly any of our writers
write about love —-“Toleration between
men and women, a certain grim kind-
liness, yes —but not love” —and that
those who do treat of this delightful
subject (Baker mentions Louis Stone,
Norman Lindsay, Martin Boyd and
others) nearly always locate their novels
in “areas of large settlement.” But,
then, was the town of “Redheap” really
so large an area? Is it a fact that,
as Baker suggests, Steele Rudd’s Dad
was never in love? Nor Dave? Nor
Sandy? And what has Baker to say
about such novelists as Henry Kingsley,
William Gosse Hay, Vance Palmer,
Leslie Mellor, Eve Langley, Christina
Stead and Kenneth Mackenzie, who,
some in the city and some in the bush,
do undeniably treat of love? He has,
in fact, nothing to say about them.
For all that, most of Baker’s
generalisations, as such, could be true
enough: one raises questions about
them merely to indicate that they need
fuller .consideration than he has given
them in these short essays. His funda-
mental thesis, that many of our
national characteristics had their origin
not so much in the convicts as in their
“unwanted children”—“ln 1820 there
were 5688 children under 14 years of
age, of whom 3800 had no schools”—
is again debatable (all over the world
at that period children were going
without education), but at least it is a
different line of approach from that
usually followed in books of this kind;
and, when he gets to the subject on
which he is an authority, Australian
slang, he is always interesting and
provides very few grounds for argu-
ment.
Presumably intended chiefly to show
New Australians what we are made of,
“The Drum” consists of ten essays on
our national characteristics as dis-
played in literature, sex, language, etc.,
followed by a short dictionary of Aus-
tralian slang. One of the most lively
pieces of research in it is Baker’s
examination of how far in actual
physical statistics we differ from the
“tall, lean bushman” of legend; and
one of his most amusing pieces of
writing is the account of the row that
broke-out in Sydney when the New
Australian collided with the tram.
Here he manages to persuade the reader
that, of all unlikely things, one of our
national characteristics is an objection
to noise.
A Puzzling Poet
Charles Higham’s The Earthbound
and Other Poems (Angus and Robert-
son) is a book almost equally pleasing
and puzzling; for Higham writes very
well, but the reader’s great difficulty is
to find out what on earth he is writing
about. Take, for instance —with the
assurance that there is nothing preced-
ing it in the poem to explain if —the
conclusion of “Sesostris”: —
He swam then, and the bird rose
high!
He swam across the jasper lake!
Hark for the nightjar’s sudden cry!
Watch the kingfisher burn by!
Listen for his heart to break!
Well, Sesostris was a legendary king
in Egypt, mentioned inaccurately in
Herodotus and believed by the
Egyptians to have conquered the whole
world, but what in the world is happen-
ing to him here? Why are nightjars
and kingfishers simultaneously on the
scene? What is the purport of all these
beautiful exclamation - points? No
doubt you could find out all about it
by looking-up the right reference-
books; but surely a dramatic action
should take place clearly and explicitly
within the framework of the poem
itself, not outside it in a reference-
book.
Still, the poetry remains pleasing in
itself, and the exclamation-points
impressive. Perhaps it is enough, or
almost enough, to take it as a general
picture of a conqueror dying in disil-
lusion, without bothering too much
about the specific history of Sesostris.
So you can go through “The Earth-
bound” simultaneously pleased and
puzzled; sometimes wondering whether
you should read the twelve volumes of
Frazer again to find out all the sig-
nificances of “The Fisher King.” some-
times feeling that the beautiful lines
and the hints of sexual drama are
enough, or almost enough; but on the
whole the more pleased when the less
puzzled, as on the occasions when the
myths that provide the basis of the
poems are either well-known or drama-
tised with reasonable explicitness.
Thus “Actaeon’s Death,” though inter-
fused with a sexual symbolism, as is
the contemporary custom when dealing
with Greek myths, is the familiar story
clearly retold (very effective at the
moment when that rude prowler grows
his antlers); and, to grasp what is going
on in “Barnacle Geese,” before you
look for its symbolism, you need to
know only that there is an old legend
that the barnacle-geese were born
from barnacles. This is indeed a very
fine poem, full of wild salt water and
dramatic movement, and the symbolic
meaning; is simply that the poet goes
down into despair like a drowning
barnacle and comes up again to write
some more poetry: —
Sail on! But sailing keep the
soundless rage
Of splendor streaming from each
wing, a page
Unsullied in your book. Remember
when
Beating the main back, shouting at
your men
That from your side, each crying like
a lover,
The wild geese rose, and the storm
winds blew over.
There are a few faults and weaknesses
in this book: some borrowings from
Yeats (who is a good poet to borrow
from) and some from Roy Campbell
(who is not); some awkward potted
phrases such as “Might think their
quiet hutched a lair” (which Higham
apparently liked so much that he uses
it twice); the harrowing rhyme-
sequence in “war—springe’s gnaw”; a
translation of Mallarme’s “L’Apres
Midi d’un Faun,” which is lame and
stumbling beside Aldous Huxley’s
looser but inspired version. But on
the whole the poetry is most smooth
and cool and harmonious and only
needs to come out of the clouds a bit
more—as occasionally it does—to be
altogether pleasing.
Guides to Straight Thinking: Stuart
Chase (Phoenix). The author examines
thirteen common fallacies, giving a
chapter to each one. He pauses fre-
quently to let you hear what the
ancients had to say—with Aristotle
and the syllogism, a rather brief pause
—and has a whale of a time with both,
hypothetical and actual council-
meetings. etc., demonstrating fallacious
arguments. Most of it is at least
interesting, and the book certainly
sharpens one’s thinking. Chase s own
style is nice and clear.


55*0
107N3
tf
da
i
saasa
V ;:
E
48
:)
three easy
ways to
enjoy
carefree
holiday
motoring
Make sure your car is ready for
holiday travel. Have it specially
checked and lubricated —made
safe and efficient —at your
BP/C.O.R SERVICE STATION.
See your friendly BP man soon.
Use only new, improved BP Super
or C.O.R —they both contain
BENZOL, the world's best
fuel improver.
When you call at a BP Service
Station, ask for your free copy
of the 1959 edition of BP's
popular ‘Holiday Digest’,
an invaluable handbook of
holiday motoring hints.
You go best with BENZOL
only in BP Super & C.O.R
BP AUSTRALIA LIMITED, formerly The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd
