

The Bulletin
His Old Shako —page 5
Wednesday, December 16, 1959
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Jlegisterecl in Australia for transmission by post os- a newspaper.
"After you've trimmed y'r nails can I have my bulldozer back, Dad?"


THE STOTT WAY
IS
THE SURE WAY!
Stott students are taught how to write
stories that sell and are advised by the
College of the names and addresses of
reputable Literary Agents in various
eountries who may be trusted to handle
students’ MSS. to the best advantage.
A student wrote: “I feel that, as a result of
taking the Course, I am able to go on, knowing
what is wanted, amd how to do it. I have learned
all about the markets, what different papers re-
quire, the rates of payment, etc.”
If YOU have a story to tell, learn how to
tell it. This luerative field of Authorship
is waiting to pay well for good work.
159 Flinders Fane, Melbourne; 149
reagli St., Sydney : 290 Adelaide St., Bris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 254 Murray
St., Perth.
.XOdJOD SIIII IIVK Cl xv iao
To STOTT'S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE (5.13. 2459)
BOOK HUNTER, Box 2671, G.r.0.. Sydney.
A service for readers. Tliat difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS FOR CHRISTMAS
Morris West's Bestseller
Morris West’s latest novel The
Devil’s Advocate (Heinemann) con-
cerns an English priest who, with only
a few months to live, is sent by the
Vatican to a backward Calabrian
village to examine the claims of its
peasants that they have a saint—a
mysterious man who worked among
them for a short time towards the
end of the war and was shot as a
collaborator by Communist partisans.
Long years in the seclusion of the
Vatican have, it seems, almost suffo-
cated the priest’s humanity, and he
feels that his faith has never been
truly tested. But as he uncovers the
alleged saint’s story —which involves
an apparent miracle of faith; a beauti-
ful peasant woman on whom the can-
didate had fathered a bastard son
before going religious; a homosexual
English painter who is trying to
seduce the now-adolescent boy; a
nymphomaniac countess who tempted
the candidate on the eve of his death;
a peasant priest who shares a bed
with his housekeeper; and a liberal
Jewish doctor who has worked even
harder than the “saint” for the
peasants, but without success because
he did not love them with a Christian
love—the priest’s charity awakens, and
he does a lot of good to most of these
souls as well as to his own; and before
death he manages to “find himself as
a man and a priest.”
It is hardly surprising that the novel
arrives in a dust jacket glowing with
praise from English and American
reviewers, and with the information
that it has sold 75,000 copies in two
months, will be translated into six
languages, will be made into a Broad-
way play by Dore Schary and possibly
into a film by Hollywood: for here we
have religion at its most fascinating,
from Vatican splendor and “subtlety”
to conversions and naughty priests, and
sex at its most spectacular. There are
mystery, perversion, politics, a man
with only a short time to live, and over
it all an air of broadmindedness and
reformism flowing from harmless
attacks on the Catholic Church for
neglecting the temporal welfare of its
flock.
The author’s larger purpose is
apparently to demonstrate in various
ways that no lasting good can be
achieved in this world without the
Christian virtues. Here he is least
successful, for his arguments against
liberalism, agnosticism and Commun-
ism, though fair and charitable in
intention, are too neatly contrived and
lacking in fresh insight.
But on the more modest level of sheer
entertainment through continuous and
colorful action he is very successful
indeed. He has written this book with
fervent sincerity and a narrative skill
that lifts it far above anything he has
done since “Children of the Sun.”
The Australian Abroad
We have all, of course, been abroad;
as Lesley Rowlands says in Why Can’t
the English? (Ure Smith Pty., Ltd.) it
is our national vice and none of us
quite know why we do it. We have
all, too, come home again and learned
the appalling fact that everybody
seems to have got along pretty well
without us. Somebody else is doing
your job; in “The Bulletin” office, at
any rate, somebody has always stolen
your favorite chair; and really it is
only the dog and the cat and some-
times, perhaps, your wife, who seem
properly impressed by your return.
Also, nobody wants to hear about your
travels; they endure you for two
minutes, at best, so that they can talk
for half an hour about their own
abominable pilgrimages.
Thus travel is important only to
the traveller; and when we are
received like this at home it is ridicu-
lous of us to expect, as we all do, that
the entire population of the Continent,
and especially the English, should be
delighted or even interested in the fact
that we have come to visit them. They
have their own affairs to attend to.
But since, full of the importance of
our voyage and full of some vague
yearning for mother-love from the
Mother Country, we do expect to be
received with rapture, England usually
maddens us as much as it enchants
us. We have all met the lorry-driver
who asks us if we have come from
Africa and when proudly informed
that Australia is our nation says, “Oh,
I thought you were from one of those
places”; and few are so kind as to
add, as did Lesley Rowlands’s lorry-
driver, “ ’Course I know that Africa
and Australia aren’t anywhere near
each other.”
The interest, then, of “Why Can’t
the English?” is that it is everybody’s
travels —Lesley Rowlands is an Aus-
tralian girl who took jobs in England
—and the charm of it is that the
author suffers her disillusions entirely
without rancor; indeed, with much
humor. Staying at the manor-house for
Christmas, she quite forgives the inno-
cent question, “Do you have Christmas
in Australia?”; and when she discovers
that Jeremy has a row of hats for all
appropriate occasions, including a
purple decr-stalker (“Why, dear old
thing, what else would you expect me
to wear shooting?”) she is honestly
not sure whether he is peculiar for
wearing them or she is peculiar for
thinking him peculiar.
Another excellent thing about her
book is that she is well aware that it
is everybody’s travels and so doesn’t
waste time describing the sights that
everybody has seen. Of course she
went to the Tower, Westminster
Abbey, Hampton Court, Keats’s cot-
tage and the Cheshire Cheese, and if
she doesn’t seem to have done the full
Dickens pilgrimage she may well be
forgiven. But she gets over all that
in a paragraph and then goes ahead
with travels that may be a little differ-
ent from everyone else’s, if not in
general experience, then in detail.
Few of us have actually worked, as
Lesley Rowlands did, as a clerk in a
shipping-office, hearing about Elspeth’s
adventures with boyfriends and motor-
bikes and trying to explain to Elspeth
that Othello has been dead for some
time. Not all of us have stayed at a
manor-house for Christmas and been
subjected to the practical jokes of an
alleged poltergeist. And if most of us
have had a room or a flat somewhere
in London, and St. John’s Wood seems
{Continued on page 55)


o
t
Socrates said:
"This is the
bitter end V*
Fair enough that statement!
After all he had done nothing
but good. The fatal draught of
hemlock was a most unfitting reward for a long life of thought and work
in the service of mankind he was 70 at the time of his death.
If we could be certain we would live to age 70 maybe we wouldn’t buy
life insurance. Things being as they are it is wise to have your A.M.P. man
check over your life insurance programme at regular intervals.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: 8 7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
GENERAL MANAGER: M. C. BUTTFIELD
Entry A.M.P. member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by funds exceeding £400,000,000 which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.
X 144»


The Bulletin
Wednesday, Dec. 16, 1959
Vol. 80—No. 4166
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 436-440 King William St. f
A delaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.O. ), Wellington.
THE SUMMIT AND CHINA
PRESIDENT EISENHOWER’S
goodwill tour is in full swing. He
is to cover Asia and Europe in 19
days.
His objective is to establish good-
will —in some capitals in a mere five or
six hours, but giving 110 hours to the
task in India and 73 hours to it in
France. He is missing-out the real
trouble-spots, such as Iraq. Cairo and
Hungary.
In the lastnamed somebody else has
been seeking peace in his own way:
Khrushchev, who turned-up in Buda-
pest during the debate in U.N. on the
Hungarian revolution muttering that
the atmosphere of international con-
ciliation was “displeasing to certain
circles in the West,” and commenting
on the U.N. debate in the plaintive
question. “Who needs this provocative
query?”
Comrade Khrushchev praised the
Kadarist Communists for their “historic
merit” in having brought their country
through the “counter - revolutionary
crisis of 1956.” He delivered a lecture
on the virtues of the Leninist outlook
in world affairs and announced that
the principle of proletarian inter-
nationalism, which he made it clear
meant “Communist-party unity under
Soviet Union leadership,” was “holy”
to the Communist world movement.
Also that if the leaders of this or that
national Communist party became
“conceited and inclined to act inde-
pendently of Moscow leadership.” it
would be “all grist to the enemy’s
mill.”
And though, he said, the Soviet
Union was as ready as ever to hold
the summit-conference, it was “neces-
sary to approach the matter reasonably
and take the wishes of others into
account” —the “others” apparently
being limited to de Gaulle, whom he
is not to meet till March 15. because
“de Gaulle wants an exchange of views
with me before the conference.”
His tortuous oration showed no dis-
position on his part to liquidate any
principle of Communism or the primary
items among Kremlin ambitions.
The consolidation of Russian power
in Central Europe must go on by force
of arms and compulsory linkage of
electric-power and oil supplies to
Russia within borders firmly closed by
mines, barbed-wire and bayonets
against Western civilisation.
West Berlin must be stripped of its
occupation-forces. Russia would be
“glad to bring about a peaceful settle-
ment of the German problem by sign-
ing with their allies a peace-treaty with
Western Germany.” If this did not
suit the West and Dr. Adenauer, the
U.S.S.R. would be “forced to sign a
unilateral treaty with East Germany.”
TT is somewhat significant that on
A the same day the Secretary of Nato.
M. Spaak, formerly Belgian Prime
Minister, was warning the world of
facts that were apparent to other
observers years ago when the United
States in particular showed no signs of
recognising them —i.e.. that “the Soviet
threat is Asian and African and eco-
nomic, and the Western world can no
longer be defended within Nato terri-
tory alone.” Defence is—and has been
since 1947—strategically global.
The Eisenhower tour to Asia —and
the route by which it has been achieved
—seems to suggest that Washington
has at last come to the same conclusion.
The President’s incursion into India
and Pakistan, both parts of the British
Commonwealth, may now be intended
to represent a showing of the Ameri-
can flag in South-east Asia as a warn-
ing to impinging Communist tyrants;
but it is being read in another sense in
Peking, where it is being interpreted
as evidence of a desire of the predatory
arch-imperialists of Washington to
establish India and Pakistan as other
and larger Formosas into which U.S.
facilities for aggression are being
planted.
There has been more realism
throughout in the British approach to
Asia. If, as suggested. Mr. Macmillan
is now working for the inclusion of
Red China in the summit discussions,
he is taking a sensible course, since
without Red China any bargain for
world peace is mere waste paper. That
Mao knows this is shown by the
ITS ALL IN
"HANSARD" page 36
manner in which he has reacted to the
Khrushchev manoeuvres, making it
plain to the world in general that
Moscow does not control his
“conscience” or his policy.
Formosa seems to be the stumbling-
block to the invitation being issued,
and while the farce continues of recog-
nising Chiang Kai-shek as the de facto
Chinese Government no solution is
possible.
CTR ALAN BROOKE was puzzled in
thinking about the Cairo 1943
meeting “why the Americans attached
so much importance to Chiang... .All
he did for them was to lead them up the
garden-path to a Communist China.”
Chiang reminded the Field-Marshal of
a “cross between a pinemartin and a
ferret.... with no grasp of war in its
larger aspects, but determined to get
the best of all bargains.” And, on his
subsequent record, this description has
some justification.
It is true that the Chinese, whether
Communist or Nationalist, have little
claim on the tiny mountainous island
of Formosa, which was mainly in the
hands of its Malayan-type aborigines
when the Japanese took it over in
1895. later largely -civilising it. But
if anybody other than the Japanese
outside the locals has any right to
decide the fate of the island it is the
de facto Government in Peking. The
one justification for holding it is as a
stopper against Communist Chinese
aggression into the Pacific and against
Japan. It must be admitted that this
is a very good one on military grounds.
It is possible that Khrushchev’s
eagerness for a peace-conference arises
from the knowledge that the absence of
the Chinese from it must make it abor-
tive and that he will gain the credit for
trying, to the confusion of Western
Governments, without interrupting the
consummation of his main objective—
the world Communist revolution.
There are strong moral objections
- against admitting Red China to the
councils of the world on the ground of
its aggression in Korea and elsewhere;
but they are not stronger than those
against the inclusion in U.N. of
Castro’s savage —and now clearly
Communist-actuated Government of
Cuba, or of Russia, the murderer of
the Balkan States and the brutal sup-
pressor of Hungarian and Polish
freedom.
If the West intends to establish
moral standards in these matters it
should at least try to be consistent,
though if it were there would be no
U.N. save on the basis of a Western
Power-bloc, and very little accord
otherwise.
It would be wise if the Chinese were
to be invited to attend, if only to see
how far they are prepared to toe the
peace line.


HIS OLD SHAKO
“Ten—twenty—thirty—forty —fifty years ago!”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Queensland's Bill of Rights
The principles behind the Queensland
“Bill of Rights” seem to be already well
established in British Constitutional law,
and in the main the bill contains little
more than a statement of what already
exists.
If the individual has not his freedom
secured and the protection of his property
from unjust acquisition assured, the only
invaders of his rights in these matters
have been Governments, Parliaments and
local authorities which, irrespective of
party, have been unanimous in making
inroads into personal liberty during the
past 60 years.
Mr. Nicklin is careful to admit that
the bill is based on the concept that
what Parliament is asked to do is to
“protect and maintain” them and not
to “bestow” them, since they already are
there.
The basic thinking behind the bill
seems a bit mixed. The one vital change
which is envisioned is designed to over-
ride Section 5 of the Imperial Colonial
Laws Validity Act of 1865, which fetters
a Government in repealing legislation
previously passed and which its predeces-
sors have declared to be non-repealable
by future Parliaments.
N. S. Wales passed clauses amending
the Constitution Act a generation ago to
prevent any later Parliament abolishing
the Council except through a referendum.
Queensland Parliament in 1934 passed
an Act to contrary effect to prevent the
reintroduction of its abolished Council
by future Parliaments.
So Mr. Nicklin, deprecating the prin-
ciple on which these moves were made
and abolishing the effect of the Imperial
Act of 1865, nevertheless proceeds to
fetter future Parliaments and “inflict his
views” upon them in a way which he
says should not be done, by providing
that this particular piece of legislation
shall not be repealed or altered by future
Parliaments save as the result of a State-
wide referendum.
Flowever, he has set out to remedy
what he calls “a frightening and intoler-
able position.”
The “just terms” provision is applied
to all acquisitions of private property—
except for primary products, which are
exempted.
The whole measure apears to open
the way for as much contention as Sec-
tion 92 of the Federal Constitution, and,
in the hands of an obstructive and con-
tentious Opposition legally advised by
cunning men, could well make Parlia-
mentary life one long procession of
referendums.
This apart from producing a conflict
or unevenness of rights applying to one
and the same citizen in the Federal or
State spheres.
Constitutions are living things that
have grown, as the British Constitution
has grown, unwritten and continually
changing through legal interpreta-
tion and the evolving needs of each
generation.
The great trouble with “Bills of
Rights” is that they cannot declare rights
without also defining and limiting them,
irrespective of the impact of gradual
change. In the hands of unscrupulous
Governments they can be as much a
danger as a protection to freedom.
Fiji and the Indians
The Fiji riots are a reminder of Aus-
tralia’s need for the maintenance of its
strict policy of immigration.
At the root of the trouble in Fiji are
the Indians of a particular type who are
born rioters and agitators. Wherever
they have been allowed to settle outside
India they have brought trouble with
them to an extent that has made the
original population wish that they had
never seen them.
Africa had them in the days of
Gandhi, breeding a special enmity that
has never died. Ceylon’s 900,000 Tamils
never tire of trying to take-over the
policy of the country and trend it towards
Indianisation.
In Mauritius they are almost in con-
trol of the economy. In the West
Indies they have been a thorn in the
side of more than one Government.
They introduced British Guiana* to
Kremlin propaganda, and but for the
firm action of the British Government
would have handed the colony over to
Communism.
Malaya hasn’t so many of them, but
they are prominent beyond their num-
bers, and in Fiji there has been plenty
of evidence of their recalcitrance and
determination to displace both the
British and the Fijians and become the
dominant race.
They achieve their entries into nearly
every British community through the
sugar industry and bring with them the
technique of arousing mob-hysteria with
cunning and provocation.
This seems native to their race. The
division of India when it became “free”
led in a few weeks to wholesale slaughter
along the India-Pakistan borders.
The dispute behind the Fiji riots about
wage-rises with the two oil-companies
which fuel the industry and transit of
Fiji, including the international air-
facilities at Nandi, was a simple indus-
trial matter, but to the Indian agitators
it presented an oportunity to provoke
the usually law-abiding Fijians to mass
hysteria over something about which
there were strong feelings.
The strike plan seems to have operated
under extremist - union advice from
Sydney. It was marked by the element of
surprise and designed to force the police
to oppose a mob assembled at Suva’s
main bus transit-centre at the busiest
time of the day’s struggle. There was
no real attempt to hold a meeting prior
to this or to negotiate to the point of
last resource, and there were only 300
workers directly interested in the issue
which precipitated struggle and destruc-
tion mainly by hundreds with no direct
concern in the matter.
The riot was one of the most violent
in the history of the Pacific. The
pattern was that of Indian- and
Communist - projected “anti-colonialist”
agitation against British rule —something
carefully planned and masterminded,
with all the normal Communist touches
and methods used in other places, and
aimed to be a typical Communist type
of demonstration of unity of the native
race and the Indian liberators for use
throughout the world as an example of
how British rule inspires uncontrollable
hate.
Constitutional Review
[From Commander C. C. M. Usher]
“The Bulletin’s” recent reminder
that Constitutional review will soon
be on the notice-paper of what should
be our national Parliament would be
more effective if we and our political
representatives were more aware of the
issues involved. As it is, we will be
asked to deal with mere palliatives.
Conceived at the turn of the century,
when Australia was still under the pro-
tective mantle of the Royal Navy, our
Federal Constitution is a product of the
Victorian era in which festina lente was
the order of the day. Today, as an out-
post of Western civilisation in a very
disturbed and contracting world faced
with problems arising from technical
and scientific innovations, our national
Government simply cannot afford the
delay of protracted litigation and argu-
ment as to its powers to deal with such
problems. Unless our Constitution
equates power with responsibility and
gears the machinery of government to
match the tempo of modern conditions,
the progress and survival of Australia
as a nation are in jeopardy.
This point is emphasised by the appa-
rent need to amend the Constitution to
deal with nuclear energy, television,
broadcasting, etc. In Canada the powers
of the provinces are specifically desig-
nated, and the residue of power rests
with the national Government. Thus
any new technical development or prob-
lem of a national nature can be dealt
with promptly by the national Govern-
ment as and when it arises.
Opposing real Constitutional reform
are the parochial vested interests of the
States and the fact that even in a matter
of such national importance one half
of the people, politically speaking, does
not trust the other half.
Although the functions of the States
are little beyond that of local-government
or those of a province or region, they
have “sovereign rights.” In this day and
age this virtually results in a claim to
divide the country into six nations for
the sake of arguing about it, instead of
making sacrifices to build one nation.
Regarding the fear that an A.L.P.
Government in Canberra would use a
Constitution on the Canadian model to
make Australia a wholly Socialist State,
the answer is that this is a risk that we
must take. In any case, we are already
half-way there, and if we want to go
the whole way no Constitution will stop
us. Canada, in spite of its Constitution,
is still wedded to free-enterprise.
As to the period of dislocation and


readjustment required to establish what
would virtually be a new Constitution,
are we to admit that such a change is
beyond us? To our north new nations
released from colonial status are bravely,
by trial-and-error, forging new Constitu-
tions. What for them is, understandably,
a difficult task, we with centuries of
experience of developing democracy
should be able to take in our stride.
The Doctors Differ
The bitter row in Victoria over methods
of dealing effectively with drunken
driving, of which only fragments appear
in the press, received an impetus with
the publication of the report on the
European and Scandinavian section of
the fact-finding expedition of Dr. K. M.
Bowden, the Government pathologist.
In the past few months Dr. John
Birrell, the police-surgeon, has been
silent, or, as his supporters claim,
silenced. In October Dr. Birrell post-
poned a series of lectures he intended
to give on drunken driving because the
Government insisted that he use Govern-
ment Statist figures for the association
of alcohol and road accidents; earlier
the Government had announced it was
concerned about his statements on
accidents involving alcohol.
Dr. Bowden’s preliminary reports indi-
cated that compulsory blood-tests were
not the final solution of the problem by
any means, and since this is the Govern-
ment’s own (but not officially admitted)
view, he is the Government’s favorite
son on the issue. Dr. Birrell, the
adamant advocate of blood-tests and a
usually cheerful fellow, is in the official
doghouse.
In his final report on seven European
countries, Dr. Bowden points out that
it is very difficult to place overmuch
reliance on blood-tests taken some time
after a motorist has been on the road,
and despite severe penalties in some
countries, the incidence of drunken
driving is no better. Norway has had
compulsory blood-tests for 33 years and
harsh penalties, and the situation is at
least as alarming as ever it was.
Dr. Bowden’s report must be respected
because he does not take a line; he
lets his facts speak for themselves, and
the facts on Norway and Sweden are
not encouraging. Sweden’s laws are as
strict in some respects as Norway’s, but
Sweden is now overhauling them in an
effort to make them more effective.
Since Dr. Birrell retired from the
rostrum, sections of the Methodist,
Presbyterian and Baptist churches have
complained that he has been muzzled.
The churches’ views are not impor-
tant, since they are unvarying on any
subject related to alcohol. Dr. Birrell’s
views are important because he is a
specialist dealing in his subject and a
human who sees much of the slaughter
resulting from drunken driving; but
there seems general agreement among
the Parliamentary parties that as a
Government official he should adhere
at least to Government figures when
taking his own views before an audience.
Formality and Stuffiness
The programme for the four-day fare-
well visit of Sir William and Lady Slim
to Victoria was precisely the sort that
officials get up for Royal visits and
amend slightly when the inevitable storm
against stuffiness breaks.
Either or both attended the annual
meeting of the Boy Scouts Association,
went to St. Paul’s, ate a State luncheon
and a luncheon given by the Council
of the British Commonwealth Societies,
had a drink at a Town Hall civic
reception, farewelled representatives of
societies of which they were patrons at
a Government House reception and
snatched a breath of fresh air only on
the drive to and from Essendon and in
planting trees in the Botanic Gardens.
At many of these places the Slims
saw the same old faces repeatedly, but
the G.-G. put a brave soldier’s face on
it, although the situation must have been
desperate.
Probably the only place at which a
mass of Victorians have had a good
look at, and listen to, the Governor-
General is at the Melbourne Cup.
Nato Difficulties
Nato’s existence is justified by the
solid and permanent nature of the Soviet
Union forces aimed at external striking.
Some military strategists hold that
Russia is at a vast disadvantage in being
a centralised Power against which attack
can converge from all sides.
In these days of long-distance missiles,
large and fast aircraft, the boot is rather
on the other foot, for the threatened
outside the Communist borders must
keep a huge perimeter-defence against
break-out in any direction, while the
U.S.S.R., the potential aggressor, has the
advantage of being able to determine
the direction of its strokes, of being
able to strike at vital objectives by land
as well as through the air, and of having
main Western power concentrated in
two or three closely settled areas
within easy reach of Soviet jumping-off
places.
If they attacked the Russians would
probably make two drives —by land with
their huge numbers of divisions which,
including reserves available for action
within a month, tot-up to about 7,000,000
men. These would aim to take Western
European facilities intact and all the
land to the Channel and the Spanish
and Portuguese Atlantic. There would
be a preparatory air-strike to immo-
bilise England and U.S. defences
there ; then a longer-term attack on the
United States and Canada after the
European victory had been consolidated
by bombing where needed.
The Institute of Strategic Studies in
its pamphlet just issued places the break-
down of manpower in the Russian forces
(outside immediately available trained
reserves who have not long been through
their two-year training) at Army
2,350,000, Navy 500,000, Air Force
700,000 and labor troops 350,000. This
shows very clearly what the nature of
the war would be.
The institute, estimating military
balance between the East and the West
in the Nato area, declares that the
Soviet Union’s missile-arm has about
100 main missile bases.
They are all under a single command
of an engineer-general who has forces
of 200,000 fully-trained men. He con-
trols the whole striking-enterprise from
the manufacture of nuclear weapons,
rockets, guided missiles, sites and fight-
ing-units, thus having complete power
of co-ordination.
Against this, Nato can muster four
Thor bases in the U.K., two Jupiter
bases under construction in Italy, and
a projected Jupiter base in Turkey—
seven in all, building, built or about to
be built.
At present the Nato Allies, who in
Moscow are supposed to have combined
for attack on innocent, peaceful Russia,
have only about as many actual missiles
as the Soviet Union has bases in
Europe. And the land-forces are no more
than 21 divisions —on paper —about a
ninth of the number of Russian stand-
ing divisions.
It is no wonder that France is eager
to have the atomic bomb on its own
account, and, with Western Germany,
is turning back to the concept of
national internal defence, while at the
same time both are prepared to do their
paits in building up Nato’s combined
shield-force.
Double-talk and No Pay
For sheer double-talk and hypocrisy,
the dealings in the Victorian railways go-
slow strike take beating. The strike began
when the Railways Commissioners suc-
cessfully opposed at arbitration railway-
men’s claims for service pay after the
Cabinet had indicated the matter would
not be contested.
In the early days of the go-slow the
Arbitration Court granted the 28 per cent,
margin-rise in the metal trades, in prin-
ciple, to some railway-workers, but the
commissioners withheld it because the
railwaymen were going slow, “observing
regulations.”
The commissioners, therefore, were
the first of the parties to bind-up the
two issues, and the Trades Hall Council,
which had given the strike its official
blessing, acknowledged, quite erroneously,
of course, that the two matters were
related by conferring with the commis-
sioners on them.
When they reached the inevitable dead-
lock the Trades Hall Council in fact
ordered a resumption of the strike and
blandly announced, “At no time has the
disputes committee asked unionists to go
slow. . . .Our actions have been designed
to operate within the regulations laid
down by the Railways Commissioners.”
The railwaymen, who are not entitled
to the service grants but are entitled to
the margins increase, and have got
neither, have been instructed to go slow
by their union and have heard their
instructors deny their instructions. They
must be bewildered and disillusioned.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
Why not a referendum on shopping-
hours in N.S.W.? After all, what’s
sauce for the booze should be sauce for
the organdie.—“Zeyd.”
*X+ +*<■
“C.A.A.”: The TV provincial-licences
inquiry in Melbourne discovered a new
word: “duopoly.” Counsel explained
that it was used by economists to describe
two companies that provided substan-
tially all the TV-services in a State—just
another version of soft-copoly, the way
it’s working-out:
♦> +♦♦ *t+
“Jo”: The wife of a young suburban
doctor drove her own small car to the
shopping-centre. When she had finished
her marketing she drove to the service-
station and, not leaving the driver’s seat,
bought petrol ; then moved over to the
free-air sign to have air put in the tyres.
She glanced behind her and noticed that
her husband’s car was parked at the
bowser; the doctor was examining a
man’s foot at the front doorstep. Mrs.
Doctor began an angry tirade to the
free-air attendant about the poor medical
man who could never call his time his
own, etc. When she had finished the
obviously embarrassed youth awkwardly
explained: “It’s a very good thing the
Doctor drove along just then. You see,
you ran over Mr. Smith’s foot as you
drove up to the bowser . . . he’s not very
happy about it . .
“Narumee”: Melbourne’s November
burst of humid weather was harnessed
by my teenage correspondent thus:
“Can’t stick this drooby sticky heat;
it’s awful for exams —your hand sticks to
the paper and everything gums-up in
your head. And that reminds me, can
I stick you for another quid?”
❖ ♦> ■
“G.T.”: Had been warned before
attending an exhibition that the presi-
dent of the women’s organisation which
was holding it was the unconventional
type. Five minutes after the scheduled
opening, the mayor, who was to do the
deed, had not turned up, and although
everybody else began to fidget, Madam
President continued to chat serenely
with all and sundry, including the press.
“Oh, he’ll turn up,” was her breezy
reply when it was suggested that some-
one attempt to locate the missing
dignitary. “He’s probably just slipped
into the local to have a couple.” After
which Mr. Mayor’s excuse of having
mistaken the time sounded very tame
indeed.
*X*
“P.0.M.C.”: Excuse me, “Villefair”
(B. 2/12/’59), but in a shop on Burwood
Road, Burwood (N.S.W.), at least two
of the four waxen models on the staff
not only have attractive faces but real
hair always beautifully coiffured. One
must be the best-dressed doll in town —
she wears a different and pricey frock
for every business-day of the year.
*** *** ***
“Aus”: Wife awakened husband,
whispering that someone was in the yard.
“Shut up; I’m not going out in the
frost to see who’s there.” Wife declared
she could hear sounds. At last the
exasperated husband left his warm bed
to find that the woodman from whom
he had bought a £5-load of wood that
day was quietly replacing it on his
truck. The shivering husband stood and
watched him place every piece of wood
-on the truck, then ordered him to
unload it.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Old Pivot”: The Australian Journalists’
Association has decided to build a
memorial obelisk at the birthplace of
Bulletin founder Jules Francois (or,
more correctly, John Feltham) Archibald
in Geelong (Vic.). The association had
a headache tracking-down the spot; it
turned-out to be a little cottage attached
to a police-barracks long since dis-
appeared and now hard-by Geelong
West oval, partly occupied by children’s
playground equipment.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Ymar”: It was Friday the 13th when
a journalist calling at a Horsham (Vic.)
dry-cleaner’s learned that a pair of his
trousers had been collected in error by
a bowls - acquaintance. A N phone - call
caught the bowler just before he took-off
for Country Week bowls in Melbourne.
The laundry van was rushed to intercept
him, and on the highway the exchange
of trousers took place.
"I sure enough am crazy about your wife , Max , and I'd like to take this
opportunity of asking for her hand in marriage."
GIVE A THING, TAKE A THING
“The Lord Mayor (Alderman Jensen) asked
Sydney County Council to give £lO,OOO a
year to Sydney Opera House Appeal, but the
S.C.C. general-manager, Mr. Ranger, having
reported that gifts were restricted to £lOO under
the Local Government Act, the council decided
to give £100.”
Ten grand, the Sydney Council wanted
To give the Opera House-to-be,
But by the law they’re covenanted
To nothing larger than a C.
Its reception will be icy
In the Fund committee’s mail:
A hundred pounds is not a high-C
On the operatic scale.
We may well not wax ecstatic
Over such donations ; but
It might be more democratic,
Running opera in a hut . , .
Hut or House? The question’s aimless;
Fate decides what may befall:
But Sydney's aldermen are blameless —
They have offered up their All!
N.S.VV.
SWILLIAM.


Tf you take a vote for the most
•*- popular carol, it is almost
certain that “Silent Night” will romp
home. It’s an ordinary piece of com-
position, without originality and with a
theme to be found in dozens of other
songs. Yet, perhaps because of its very
naivete, it has seized on the imagination
everywhere, being as popular in Shinto-
Buddhist Japan as it is in Christian
Britain or the U.S. The verses were
strung together last century by the priest
of a small Tyrolean parish and set to
music by his schoolmaster-amateur-
organist, but within a comparatively few
years it had outdistanced “Good King
Wenceslas” and “The First Nowell.”
Throughout Germany and Austria it
soon became the carol to be sung at the
national Christmas Tree ceremony on
Christmas Eve. Heard under the right
conditions, as at this ceremony, when,
before distribution of Christmas gifts,
children and their elders join in “Silent
Night” before the Tree, it can be pro-
foundly affecting. And it isn’t only non-
Christians in the East who are fond
of it; Austrian and German Jews
observe the Christmas Tree custom and
sing the carol associated with it as
fervently as their Christian brethren. My
own introduction to the observance was
in the household of Viennese Jews.
“Silent Night” has been recorded
countless times, appears in practically
every carol - collection, has been the
theme of money-spinning films (“Going
My Way,” for instance, with Bing Crosby
as star), impacts itself upon millions of
ears through radio and TV, is sung in
department-stores during the Christmas
season as well as in the most conservative
of churches. It’s fairly safe to say that
no other carol has been subjected to
so much commercial exploitation ; never-
theless, it’s a shining example of how a
tune, humble and unspectacular in itself,
can touch something deep in humanity.
Incidentally, it’s remarkable how
carols in general appeal to boys. It’s
been my lot over many years to train
the choirs at a famous boys’ school and
I’ve found that the mightiest enthusiasm
is aroused, not by the singing of lively
hymns, nor of stirring patriotic songs,
nor of lusty sea-chanties, but, for some
unfathomable reason, by Christmas
carols.
Clement Hosking.
❖ <* *>
“Pat”: “Listen, darling,” she said, “the
stores started playing Christmas carols
the first week in November and I’ve
been buying-up every day since then.
The first Christmas-card arrived in the
middle of November and I’ve been send-
ing them out since then. The children
had their Christmas break-up the first
week in December and they’ll have to
be taken to see Santa Claus in half-a-
dozen different places. The two nights
Jack and I aren’t going to Christmas
parties we have to give them. So,
honestly darling, I don’t see how we
could possibly come to you on Christmas
Day. I mean it’s the only day. we’ve
got free to rest and diet a bit and puli
ourselves into shape to struggle through
“That archaeologist must have been mighty careless
with his pick-and-shovel."
the New Year parties.” Must say I had
a fellow-feeling for this woman ahead of
me in the telephone-booth.
❖ ❖ *
“Diorc”: I sincerely hope the head-
waiter who introduced “Croid” (B.
2/12 / ’59) to his hotel table-mates has
since got the sack. The difference be-,
tween a hotel and a boarding-house is
precisely this: that in a hotel the guest
is not necessarily expected to exchange
yaps with anyone, but in a boarding-
house the guests are expected to fill gaps
in the menu with yaps.
*+♦ +J+
“Croid”: Owners of TVs are now
beginning to realise that each year the
programme for the previous year is
repeated, some films which were not
worth seeing once being shown over and
over again. The A.B.C. station is the
worst offender.
*X* *X* ❖
“Fragmos”: Research at Melbourne
University Dental School shows that
brown-eyed people are liable to be highly
sensitive, but as the color of the eye
of the patient changes in the direction of
blue there is less sensitivity.
* * ❖
“Shibli Bagarag”: One of the most
imposing volumes ever published in
N.Z., The N.Z. Descriptive Atlas, of
which 12,000 copies were printed at £2
a copy, was sold-out inside a few days.
Most of the booksellers were sold-out
in advance. Queues lined-up at the
casual-sales counter in the publishing-
office of the Government Printer, making
a pictorial news-item for the daily papers.
The book is a splendid example of co-
operation between editorial staff and
printers, and is also one of the best
specimens of the binding - craft. Full
marks to editor Dr. A. H. McLintock
and Government Printer Roy Owen,
whose staff is now working at high
pressure on a second edition.
❖ ❖ *X*
“Kerba”: N.S.W. Railways have gone
all highbrow and burst out in Latin.
Scattered sparingly through the rolling-
stock is a carriage branded with a coat-
of-arms over “N.S.W. Government Rail-
ways” and crowned with the mystic
legend, Orta Recens Quam Pura Nites.
Just what that means I have never found
a Railways-employee who knows.
*X* *X* ❖
“Manamoi”: The quaint sub-humans
in the primitive hinterland beyond
the near-Sydney bounds of Hornsby
and Penrith are always good for
a laugh, according to a certain type
of city journalist. Latest target was
Jimmy, eight-year-old grandson of a
former Governor-General, who allegedly
told his grandfather that Sydney Cricket
Ground was better than the one at Gilgai.
Gilgai, explained the columnist, is
Jimmy’s home-town (it isn’t ; Inverell is),
is 514 miles north of Sydney (which
would place it in Queensland ; the
correct figure is nearer 400), and you
get there by rail to Inverell. then seven
miles by buckboard. Well, most rail-
travellers prefer to go via Armidale or


Glen Innes, thence by bus, but if you
like to go the long way round, you can
go by rail to Inverell; the trouble then
will be to find a buckboard, or anyone
who knows what it is. The local yokels
prefer to travel the six miles of tar-
sealed highway to Gilgai by faster means.
It would have spoiled the columnist’s
story to mention Gilgai’s chief reason for
existence, a large, all-weather airport
whence turbo-jet airliners take-off day
and night for Sydney, Brisbane, New-
castle, Tamworth and other centres.
However, he was right about the cricket-
grounds. y
❖ ❖ ❖ I
“Jeyles”: At school in GJascow “Frog-
march” (B. 25/11 / ’59) was the progres-
sion on hands necessitated by the victim
being held up by his legs, but in Aus-
tralia we found this was called “wheel-
barrowing.” My friend Cornelius, an
ex-Rotterdam cop, says “frogmarch” in
Dutch means a man being persuaded
by collar-grip and arm twisted up his
back, and is frowned-on nowadays by
officialdom as too undignified for even
arrested citizens.
“Just think of it, dear —a quiet and uninterrupted honeymoon !”
“Barra”: When double-sided records
were first issued, “Lasca” (B. “Wants”
28/10/’59) and “Gunga Din” were on
the one Zonophone platter—much easier
to learn from than the book; and many
of Albert Chevalier’s and Bransby
Williams’s monologues were listed at a
three-bob touch.
* *
. „ _ - x , ..
Doric : One of two youths who si
in front of me in the bus every morning
wore a new sports-coat. This was duly
admired by the other, and all particulars
of price paid and where purchased were
given. Next day they appeared in
identical coats. Nothing extraordinary
about this, of course, but I couldn’t help
thinking what would have happened had
they been girls.
Revisiting a seaside-resort after 30
years I looked in vain for the
tiny general-store to which we used to
run barefoot over the sandhills. It was
run by a widow and her two teenage
sons, who also assisted with the dress-
making business she conducted on the
side. All three might be seen in the
curtained-off rear portion of the shop
pedalling briskly at their three sewing-
machines. As I entered one day, portion
of a print dress was being held on high
and a newly-cracked male voice was
inquiring, “Do you want a dart there,
Mum?” “Yes.” The budding Yves St.
Laurent came to serve me, murmuring,
“A dart there ... a dart there . . . What
do you want, miss . . .? A dart there . . .
a dart there . . .” The winding track is
now a bitumen-sealed street, and the
sandhills hidden by cottages, flats and
gardens. Do the two sons now own
one of those glittering glass-and-chrome
supermarkets? They deserve to
“Miss M.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Bo”: A whisky expert has been
telling Rotary Club luncheoneers in
Sydney how Scotch should be imbibed,
It should always be swallowed neat, he
says, and with the eyes closed. This is
not, as may be supposed, the better to
express one’s ecstasy as the mellowed
dew laves the tonsils—as the lover may
close his to savor the full intoxication
of an extended labial clinch—but be-
cause, if he keeps 'em open, the sight
of the stuff will make his mouth water,
so that the whisky will be no longer
nea t. g utj dammit, there are so many
things to make a drinker’s mouth water
j n the pub that a truly neat drink seems
an impossibility: the curves of the
blonde barmaid, all the other firewater
strung along the bar-shelves, and, above
all, the oodles of dough being pushed
into the peter as the presiding angel
plays a xylophone-solo on it. Still,
there’s one cove mixing among the
milling swillers in the rush-hour who’ll
deeply appreciate the advice to toss it
down blindly: the light-fingered gent.
❖ ❖ ❖
“C.A.A.”: Smartly turned-out in a
P.M.G. messenger’s uniform, he
described a perfect parabola from his
bicycle and entered the milk-bar during
the lunch - hour, sucked a soft - drink
through a straw while he played a
boogie-woogie record, had a dozen shots
with a pistol in the miniature shooting-
gallery, and rode off well satisfied with
his luncheon break.
* ❖ ❖
“Glen Park”: Drove past a yard in
which two vintage cars were on display.
Boldly written across the windscreen
with a thumbnail dipped in cream was:
“For Sale £85.” On a nearby gate was
the more important sign: “Beware of
Cars.”
DEFINITIVE DISTINCTION
“Police Prosecutor: ‘lt was during your meal
that accused intruded?’ Witness: ‘No. We
were just having a feed of saveloys.’ ”
Please remember : When you dine,
There are some distinctions fine
Which, unobserved, must reduce de-
glutition
From an art to just a chore
To manufacture gore
By necessary victual-demolition.
Bubble-and-squeak, the gourmet’d feel,
Simply cant be termed a meal,
Nor fish-n-chips be classed as a col-
lation ;
Belly-timber they may be.
But quite lacking dignity,
Incapable of palate-excitation.
Some scran, clad in overcoat.
Might appear as table d’hote,
Though every gargon deems there’s
nothing odder
Than the sight of humble snork
{Even though it’s laced with pork )
Sharing the board with more patrician
fodder.
But the sunburnt saveloy
Which the hoi polloi enjoy
Is never on nodding terms with snowy
napery.
Blokes who would browse on it
Would most likely wipe their mitt
Nonchalantly upon the nearest drapery.
Should you see a fellow munch
His way right through a bunch
Of saveloys all bloated and a-tether,
You may confidently feel
You’re not witnessing a meal —
They and “the trimmings’’ never go
together.
Taste can never rouse dispute;
Savs. may eminently suit
Some palates, which might even feel a
need of ’em.
But this dictum firmly stands,
And authority it commands:
All you can ever do is make a feed
of ’em !
n.s.w.
S.W.K.


A Fish for Grandma
By GWEN KELLY
At a first glance she
looked like a man. It
had always been like
that. But her wrinkled,
weatherbeaten face, hidden
beneath the old canvas hat,
inevitably provoked a second
look. She must have been
over 50 at the very least, but
her black eyes, pressed tortoise-
like into the brown wrinkles,
were ageless. Her stoutish
body suggested muscular
strength, emphasised by the
firm swelling that protruded
from the back of the old blue
jeans.
She was a grandmother and
she was going fishing.
Her grandson walked behind
her, a small boy, flat-faced,
with protuberant eyes and
ears. Where she was stout,
he was thin, but the same
intimation of strength was
conveyed by his spare frame
as her stout one. In his arms
he clutched a tin of long-dead
prawns, a little weed and two
fishing-lines.
As they tramped along the
road he placed his feet in the
dusty indentation left by her
old sandshoes and walked
without raising his eyes above
the level of the surrounding
shrub. Everyone they passed
greeted her. She’d been coming
down to the coast now every
holiday for the past 20-odd
years.
“Going fishing, Ma?” called
Grandpa Hills from his front-
veranda. “Not much of a day
for it.”
“Lousy weather,” she
answered without stopping.
“Lousy the whole week, Pa.
No fish’ll bite in this wind.”
But the boy treading care-
fully behind her knew that she
was acting. They were going
right out to the Jewy Hole to
get the old bream. Ma only
came because she felt today
was the day, wind or no wind.
She’d been after him the whole
week.
The leaves from the sur-
rounding gums, browned to a
crisp sliver by the bushfires
of the preceding summer,
eddied down in the gale. He
watched them quivering and
squirming along the roadway,
and they made him think of
the minnows cast by net-
fishermen along the shores of
creeks, little fish too tiny to
bother about. He had scooped
some up in his hands and they
now stank in the bottom of
the rusty tin along with the
prawns.
VX7hen they reached the
* * Jewy Hole there were
already a couple of fishermen
perched on the large rock
above the deep, brown water.
Boambee Creek was for the
most part a shallow, weedy
affair, but at this point the
water widened into a long,
depthless channel pressed
against the edges of the rocks
where the fish lurked.
He watched Ma sit down
and unroll her old gut line.
No fancy nylon for Ma.
“Pass me a prawn, Joe,”
she said, squatting on her
haunches above the pool.
“Quick, now!”
The smell remained on his
hand, permeating the skin.
The stale odor pleased him
and he surreptitiously sucked
a finger as Ma bent over her
hook. He unrolled his own
line, new gleaming . green
nylon that his mother had
sent him for his birthday.
“Still got the nipper, I see,”
said the old fellow next to Ma.
“Still got him,” she said.
“His own mum’s gone to
Sydney, but he prefers to stay
with his grandma. We’re
mates, Joe and me.”
He felt the warmth glow
within him. Mates. That was
it —he and Ma had always
been mates, even when she
cuffed him, and that was pretty
often. She had a temper,
had Ma.
“ ’Strewth,” said the younger
chap next to him, “anyone
would think he’d take the first
chance he got to get out of
that cold hole. Spent the first
ten years of my life in Armi-
dale and was I glad when my
dad up and quit.”
Joe turned and looked at the
man with interest. The
man smiled at him in return.
“What school do you go to,
Nipper?” he said, passing Joe
a sandwich out of his knap-
sack.
“The Sisters,” said Joe.
“What do you know!” said
the man. “Me, I went to the
old Dem.; up on the hill.
Believe it’s still there. Same
old building.”
Joe nodded.
“Good school, the Dem.,”
he said politely as he felt the
corn-beef catch between his
teeth. He stabbed with his
tongue at the salty fragments.
“But the Sisters are 0.k., too,
and the Saints help string-out
the holidays.”
“What do you know!” said
the man again. “Real boy you
got there, Ma. Has his eye
on the holidays.”
He gave Joe a hearty slap
on the back that resounded
through his thin shoulder-
blades, And Ma laughed, so
Joe laughed, too, but he didn’t
tell the man about the feeling
of cool peace that the chapel
gave him or how he thought
the gold-and-blue plaster of
the Virgin the most beautiful
thing he had ever seen.
Soon after lunch Joe caught
his fish. His heart leapt
with excitement as he felt the
little jerk on the line along
his finger. Carefully he began
to pull.
“Take it steady, lad,” said
the man. “It’s a long haul-up
from the water.”
“Keep your head, Joe,” said
Ma. “You’ll land him.”
And he did. Within a few
seconds the lovely gleaming
silver creature was lying at
his feet. The light caught the
stippled colors on its side and
his own throat pulsed with
delight.
“Bit under size,” said the old
fellow.
“Don’t you worry, Joe,”
said the younger man. “I’ll sit
on it if the inspector turns-
up.”
“I ain’t worry in’,” Joe
replied.
“Good lad, Joe,” said Ma.
“We’ll fry it up for breakfast.
Plenty on it for a whipper-
snapper like you.”
The crumb of praise echoed
happily in his ears. He lifted
the fish onto his hand and
laid it tenderly on the rock
beside the lunch-bag.
“Better get a move on,
Ma,” said the old fellow.
“Can’t let the boy beat you.
Not at your age.”
Ma in reply bent over the
tin, carefully selecting a high-
smelling, fleshy prawn, sliding
it along the hook with dextrous
cunning. Her undulating rear
jutted up beneath the old
fellow’s face and he promptly
pinched it. Joe watched, a
little embarrassed, a little
bored. Old men were always
pinching Ma’s bottom. He
wished she’d be more careful
where she put it.
But she never said anything
except “Come off it.” She said
it now. He suspected she rather
liked it.
But it was not Ma’s lucky-
day. Prawn followed prawn.
Beside her the men hauled in
the blackfish, but Ma refused
to change to weed. She
wanted the bream, the big
silver-bream that had been
taking their bait for the past
week.
“What’s the road like these
days, Ma?” said the younger
man. “That Dorrigo stretch
used to be enough to make
your ears curl.”
“We manage,” said Ma.
“We’re used to it, Joe and
me.”
And Joe thought with
{Continued on page 45)


POLITICAL POINTS
Fl-eisenhower.
• V
The axe fell swiftly on the seven
Labor M.L.C.s who voted against the
bill to abolish the N.S.W. Legislative
Council. On Friday night the State
executive of the A.L.P. expelled them
from the party. The M.L.C.s claimed
(through their spokesman T. P. Gleeson)
that they had not broken their party-
pledge because they had not actually
voted against the bill; they had merely
voted, on Constitutional grounds, against
accepting the bill from the Assembly, as
they believed it should have originated
in the Council.
The executive wouldn’t buy that one ;
the vote for expulsion was unanimous.
Stating their case against expulsion
the seven said they felt that the Council
should be retained to safeguard Labor
legislation. They intended to vote for
the Government on all other matters.
The burning question now is whether
they will still be of the same intention
now that they are no longer in the
A.L.P. And on this hinges the Heffron
Government’s majority in the Council.
After the expulsion G. B. Rygate,
another Labor M.L.C., announced that
he was also opposed to abolition of the
Council and would have voted with the
seven had not illness kept him away from
the House when the vote was taken. He
has been warned that the axe is being
kept sharp.
• •
What happened to that Good Com-
panion bloke who came out here a few
weeks ago?
• •
Next year’s Anzac Day in Victoria
is likely to have a new look. The R.S.L.
poll on observance resulted in a big
majority in favor of a change from the
closed-holiday that has been a feature
of the day for so many years. In the
general poll 21,933 members voted for
a change and 8576 for carrying-on as at
present. On the question of what type
of change was wanted voting was much
closer. There was general agreement
that the march and ceremonies should
be held in the morning ; the main point
at issue was whether activities after
1 p.m. should be “restricted” or “unre-
stricted.” “Restricted” won by 15,192
to 14,336. In both cases it was urged
that profits from any organised enter-
tainments should go to the R.S.L. and
other ex-service welfare-funds if the
promoting bodies agreed.
The final decision on Anzac Day
observance rests with fhe Vic. Govern-
ment, but Bolte has said he will be
guided by the result of the poll.
Menzies has announced that his Indo-
nesian visit was successful in that he
“got to know President Soekarno and
became familiar at first hand with his
views.” Who says the P.M. is a pessi-
mist? Indications over the past three
years have been that Soekarno doesn’t
know his own views for two hours
together.
• •
Frank Forde, former Federal Minis-
ter and short-time Prime Minister, is
having another try at the Queensland
Assembly seat Flinders which he lost
in 1957 ; he is among the five seeking
the A.L.P. preselection for the seat,
which now includes Charters Towers.
Another ex-Federal member, W. F.
Edmonds, is seeking preselection for
Townsville South, a new seat. He was
M.H.R. for Herbert for 12 years and
was defeated in 1958 by the Liberal-
Country-party joint-candidate J. Murray.
The Q.C.E. will select Labor candi-
dates for the Assembly election next
Friday, having decided against holding
plebiscites on the grounds that rolls for
the redistributed electorates won’t be
ready in time. There was considerable
opposition to this move and the final
vote was very close.
• •
T. J. Cahill had no difficulty in retain-
ing his late father’s seat for the A.L.P.
at the Cook’s River by-election on
Saturday. Scores (with a few hundred
votes to come): Cahill (A.L.P.), 14,082;
Bampton (Lib.), 4452 ; Buckley (Com.),
907.
Tito has developed a new grievance
against Russia: It now “ignores him and
keeps silent about his progress.” He
seems to suffer from the disabilities of
all fence-sitters—the onlooker is apt to
gaze past him to the pastures beyond.
• •
The detailed provisions of Queens-
land’s “Bill of Rights” include one
that in future redistributions of
electorates must be achieved on the
basis of at least 75 seats formed on a
quota-system. It proclaims the right of
all electors not bankrupt or members of
the Federal Parliament to stand for
election, freezes the voting-age at a
minimum age of 21, subject to electors’
power to make a change by referendum.
It also sets the terms of appointments of
judges by the Governor-in-Council, safe-
guarding them against reduction of salary
during their terms and against removal
without consent of the Assembly follow-
ing an address from the Governor-in-
Council alleging misconduct. It provides
for their retirement at 70 and the fixing
of their salaries by Parliament.
• •
The Indonesian Administration is
suffering the same sort of trouble as
Hong Kong from Chinese Government
speculation and machinations with a view
to undermining the Soekarno regime.
Subandrio, the Foreign Minister, says
that Peking has instructed Chinese
traders, through its Embassy, “not to
abide by Indonesian officials’ orders in
rural areas.” That is only a normal
instruction. Russian or Chinese, to Com-
munist agents throughout the world. In
Australia the Communist party has no
regard for officials or law except when it
needs “British justice” to save it from
the consequences of its misdeeds.
BOOKED-UP
“Sorry, Mikoyan old boy, but with all this international hobnobbing
going on, if you want to meet me socially the best I can do is breakfast,
Paris, on March 26, 1960.”


Climatically speaking, the Prime
Minister said in Brisbane, he and Dame
Pattie were going to have an arduous
journey in Indonesia, and added that
his idea of paradise was somewhere near
the South Pole. Surely that makes Can-
berra demi-paradise?
• • -
Arthur Calwell has never been re-
nowned for tact, and one of the biggest
obstacles in his path to party-leadership
has been his susceptibility to periodical
attacks of foot-in-mouth disease. He had
one last week when, commenting on the
possibility of the Doc. becoming N. S.
Wales Chief Justice, he said, “The N.S.W.
Bench, I understand from my legal
friends, is woefully weak.”
If the N.S.W. Bench is woefully weak,
then it is a woeful reflection on the
N. S. Wales Labor Government, which
for the past 18 years has had the respon-
sibility and privilege of appointing the
judges. Calwell is quite entitled to his
opinion and has every right to express it.
But for a man who aspires to the leader-
ship of Federal Labor and who needs
every caucus-vote he can muster this
implied insult to the N. S. Wales Labor
Government seems to be a prime
example of Calwellian honef.
• •
Addressing one of the angry Mel-
bourne meetings the “Peace” congress
has left in its wake, Myra Roper said
she had remained a sponsor of the
congress because she had examined its
organisation thoroughly and could find
no sign of Communist organisation. Miss
Roper, who has just resigned as principal
of the Women’s University College, has
an acute, liberal mind ; yet apparently
she really expected the Reds to
leave a trail of hammer-and-sickle
emblems, copies of “Pravda” and
Russian boots for easy identification.
• •
Clothes made of terylene and nylon will
be worn by the Australian Olympic team
in Rome next year. The manufacturers
of the artificial fibres gave the material,
and Melbourne and Sydney manufac-
turers have agreed to make them up
without cost for the athletes ; the Aus-
tralian Olympic Federation accepted the
offers because they were bored with
rebuffs from the Australian Wool Bureau
in other years.
Belatedly, the Wool Bureau wrote to
the Australian Olympic Federation
asking its requirements so that it could
“ask firms to quote for a supply.” Edgar
Tanner, secretary of the federation, said,
“All I could reply was that most
of our clothing had already been
donated.”
0 0
The United Kingdom and the United
Arab Republic resumed diplomatic rela-
tions after a vacuum of three years, blit
it is only tentative and the representa-
tive of each power will only be a
charge d’affaires, not an ambassador.
Much has been said in recent years
about the diminished power of the press
to influence the result of elections, but
in the N. S. Wales local-government
elections one paper—and a provincial
one at that—seems to have had a definite
effect on the poll. Only three candidates
contested the election for the Young
Municipal Council. Six of the retiring
aldermen refused to nominate because
the local newspaper had criticised them
and, in their view, “had held them up
to ridicule.”
Result: No council. The town clerk
of Young has been appointed adminis-
trator until a fresh election can be held.
• •
A feature of the European situation
is the emergence of Italy, asserting its
right to consultation as a Great Pqwer.
Earlier moves brought Eisenhower to
Rome. Now Macmillan has been invited
officially to Rome in the spring—about
the time Khrushchev will be in France
—to “hold a useful and businesslike
meeting between friends, consisting of a
general exchange of views and informa-
tion.”
• •
When aldermen of the Sydney muni-
cipality of Canterbury voted to elect
their mayor for the next three years the
result was a six-all tie between J. H.
Buckeridge and R. J. Schofield. The
deadlock had to be resolved by putting
the two names in a hat. Alderman
Schofield won the draw.
e •
A New Zealand lawyer visiting Sydney
is disgusted at the way N. S. Wales
politicians of all parties voted themselves
an extra £lO a week and back-dated it
six months to ensure a Christmas bonus.
He considers their conduct amounts to
a breach of contract, and he’d like to
see some public-spirited person or asso-
ciation take action against them on those
grounds.
His argument is that as the question
of salary wasn’t specifically mentioned
when the M.L.A.s offered themselves for
election early this year there was an
implied undertaking to accept the job
at the ruling rates of payment for mem-
bers. By voting themselves a rise they
have broken their contract.
It is certainly true that no candidate
said anything on the hustings about any
intention of seeking higher pay. Most
of them seemed out to give the impres-
sion that their only wish was to serve
the people; the sordid question of
money hardly entered into it.
A challenge on the lines suggested
would be most interesting. Any village
Hampden like to give it a go?
• •
Priority accorded to every major field
of rural capital-expenditure under its
control had been reduced by the State
Labor Government, N.S.W. Opposition-
leader Askin said last week. A table
of capital-expenditures over the four
financial years, 1955-56 to 1958-59, pub-
lished in ffie latest report of the N.S.W.
Auditor-General, showed that annual
expenditures of loan funds upon such
vital rural works as conservation of
water, soil and forests; land-settlement;
rural and agricultural institutions and
services; and local-government works,
had declined during that period.
Askin said this reduced expenditure
was all the more alarming as the State’s
total expenditures of loan funds had
risen from £53.3 million to £6O million
in the four years.
• •
“D.”: The mystery of Melbourne’s
disappearing pubs has been solved, at
least partly, by the auction of the Royal
Mail, which has a 37ft. frontage to
Swanston Street and a 131 ft. frontage
to commercially hallowed Bourke Street.
Bidding stopped at £430,000, which the
owners, the Richmond Brewery, refused.
But there were three bidders above
£400,000, indicating the tons of money
around for retail-sites at prices that make
hotel-keeping small beer.
• •
Rockhampton's mayor, Alderman
Pilbeam, has been endorsed as Liberal
candidate for the new seat South Rock-
hampton at next year’s Assembly elect-
ion. Pilbeam was the unsuccessful
Liberal candidate for Rockhampton in
1956, but missed the selection in 1957
and stood as an Independent for nearby
Keppel, where a joint Liberal-Country-
party candidate had been endorsed. With
the Labor vote split between A.L.P.
and Q.L.P., Pilbeam’s intrusion almost
certainly cost the coalition parties the
seat, but he has apparently been forgiven.
• •
Victoria’s game-licence fee has made
the Fisheries and Game Department
well-to-do for the first time in its long
history ; the last duck - season alone
brought in more than £34,000. The
department has added scientists to its
staff and opened two game-reserves:
Jack Smith’s Lake, south of Yarram,
and the second in Gippsland at the
western end of Lake Wellington.
• •
At a conference of scientists in
Buenos Aires, P. G. Law, chief of the
Antarctic division of External Affairs,
said that I.G.Y. observations had shown
that the pioneer maps of Antarctica
were “amazingly accurate.” These maps,
many of them drawn last century and
in the first two decades of this one,
will remain permanent tributes to the
courage and ability of the hardy early
explorers of the frozen South.
e •
There is trouble in Canberra already
over the size of the Soviet Embassy staff
which was governed by the agreement
under which the Russians came back to
their Embassy. The prodigals are appa-
rently trying to ring-in an extra or two,
but this is a point on which the Com-
monwealth is likely to prove adamant,
in the face of the lesson taught by the
evidence before the Petrov Commission.


Personal
ITEMS
New chairman of the Commercial
Banking Co. of Sydney, Douglas Royse
Lysaght was born well within cooee of
the sound of cash —on the bank’s
premises at Berrigan (N.S.W.), his father
being manager there. Schooled at King's,
Parramatta, he forsook an engineering
course at Sydney University to join the
Ist A.1.F., and afterwards was with the
British Army in India and Afghanistan.
For about 20 years from when he got
back to Australia in 1919 he was on
the land —he still has a grazing-property
at Murrurundi (N.S.W.).
• •
Dr. Michael John Flynn, chief medico
of Sydney Water Board, has been
awarded a 1960 overseas travelling
fellowship by the National Health and
Medical Research Council. Joining the
Water Board in 1937, he started by
studying engineering as an externee of
London University, but after service in
War II (including a spell on the Burma-
Siam railway) he decided to switch to
medicine and in 1957 was back with the
Water Board as C.M.O.
• •
The board of governors of the
Adelaide Festival of Arts picked British
impressario lan Hunter to advise on the
artistic set-up for the show they’re hold-
ing from March 12 to 26, 1960. Forty-
year-old managing-director of London
theatrical agents Harold Holt and Co.,
he had experience as adviser and admin-
istrator at the Edinburgh Festival from
1949 to 1955. Coming to Australia earlier
this year, and spending most of his time
in Adelaide, but with quick trips to
Melbourne, Sydney and Canberra, he
blueprinted the artistic side so well that
the show is now under its own steam
and he’s back in London, advising by
remote-control.
• •
Melbourne Royal Children’s Hospital
has appointed Dr. John Perry its new
medical director, in place of Dr. Vernon
Collins, who has accepted the Chair of
Child Health at Melbourne University.
Dr. Perry graduated in Melbourne,
organised the first Australian blood-and-
serum unit when an A.I.F. major, served
at the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute
and Royal Melbourne Hospital and
joined the Royal Children’s in 1948.
He won a Nuffield Foundation travelling
scholarship and was appointed director
of the Royal Children’s pathology
department. At 42 he is a highly ranking
authority on pathology, and his cardiac
research has already been notable.
British Council Representative in Aus-
tralia, Norman Ellis Williams (1908
vintage) hailed originally from Nor-
thamptonshire, home of his family for
the last three centuries. Educated at
Towcester Grammar and at Cambridge
(honors degree), he had considerable
experience before the war in local-
government and education. On the out-
break, he joined the Royal Artillery,
later transferring to Intelligence and
spending some time in North Persia. He
joined the British Council in 1945, and
has since served in Egypt, Holland,
BRITISH COUNCIL
Czechoslovakia and India, with intervals
at the London office. While in Prague
he lectured university students there on
English literature, and in the course of
his six years in India he toured the whole
sub-continent. Here pictured, he hopes
to spend four years in Australia.
• •
The first Asian Anglican clergyman
appointed to an important administrative
post within the Church in Australia is
the Rev. B. I. Chiu, new Home Secretary
for the Australian Board of Missions. A
former vicar of St. Mary’s, Selangor, in
the Diocese of Singapore, he studied
missionary projects in South-east Asia.
• •
Korumburra (Vic.) is cockahoop at
a remarkable dairy dollar-contract
signed by K. L. Ballantyne, managing-
director of the export firm bearing his
name (he was recently paragraphed
here).
Korumburra Co - operative Butter
Factory has now completed a £lOO,OOO
casein plant, claimed to be the only fully
mechanised one of its kind in the world,
and under the contract will supply edible
casein to the U.S
The amount is reported to be 1000
tons of edible casein yearly, worth about
£200,000; and the contract will be
worth some million dollars.
. • •
Due to succeed his father shortly as
chairman of the English engineering
firm of Mather and Platt, Ltd. —they’ve
been notable suppliers of machinery and
plant to the Australian paper- and sugar-
industries and to Broken Hill —William
Loris Mather was last week looking
Sydney over in the course of his world-
touring to see how general trading-
conditions affect his company.
Hailing originally from Adlington,
Cheshire, with education at Oundle and
Cambridge, he served his engineering
apprenticeship partly with the family-
firm and partly in France and the U.S.A.
In War II he went to Palestine with the
Cheshire Yeomanry and later served in
Syria, Iraq, Iran, the Western Desert and
Italy. A squadron-leader in the Ist Royal
Tank Regiment at the Normandy land-
ing, he was twice wounded and won the
M.C. After the war he soldiered-on as
a Territorial, ending as Colonel and
Deputy Commander, 23rd Armored
Brigade. He was appointed to the board
of the firm in January, 1947, and at
present is in charge of the general-
machinery and food-machinery depart-
ments of his company.
• •
“M.D.C.”: Touching on recent men-
tion here of A. C. (now Sir Arthur)
Rymill, I was flying over the Outer
Harbor at Adelaide the day he capsized
the racing hydroplane Tortoise, and
well remember the incident. I think
the event was the Griffith Cup, which
was held for several years in South Aus-
tralia.
• •
G. J. (Geoff) Rodger, who has just
retired as Director-General of the Com-
monwealth Forestry and Timber Bureau,
graduated from Adelaide University in
1915 and the same year went to a job
as assistant-forester with the South Aus-
tralian Woods and Forests Department
at Bundaleer. Commissioned in 1917 with
the 25th Battalion in France, he was
seconded for duty as 2 i.c. 7th Australian
Light Trench Mortar Battery and was
wounded at Ypres. When the war was
over he was able to study the forests
of Belgifim and France and attend a
course arranged by the U.K. Forestry
Commission before returning to work
with the commission’s N.S.W. counter-
part.
In 1924 he transferred to W.A., and
a couple of years later became Chief
Forester in the A.C.T. Another two
years and he was back in N.S.W., having
had a look at Tassie on the way. Then,
in 1935, he acquired another address —
as Conservator of Forests in South Aus-
tralia. He moved up to his top job in
1946, made several visits overseas with
various delegations, and in 1957 was


elected chairman of the 7th British Com-
monwealth Forestry Conference, held
here and in New Zealand. An elder
member of Adelaide Legacy, he has
always taken a keen interest in R.S.L.
affairs.
• •
Dropping in at The Bulletin office
with “Duke” Tritton the other day,
Leslie Hall, who was a 10-year-old in
Sydney’s Woollahra about 50 years back,
was quite definite in his recollection of
Henry Lawson selling his poems printed
on paper of different colors and varying
in length and cost from a short verse
at a penny to full foolscap - length at
sixpence, in addition to bringing along
lemons at several for a penny.
Hall (pictured below) recounted other
memories of old days, too —the visit of
the American Fleet (“the White Fleet”)
in 1908 ; another poet —known as the
“Penny Poet” —whom he used to meet
on board the Manly ferries ; “Sovereign
Smith,” who used to stroll along the
Manly Corso, and “Blind Billy” at the
Milson’s Point pontoon.
Now 62, Hall joined the 2nd Battalion
at 17, served at Anzac and in France
(wounded at Ypres, marked “C.l” and
“mentioned”) and finished the war at
administrative h.-q. in London as clerk
for the G.O.C.’s fund, run by Brigadier-
General Thomas Blarney. After War I
he became an inspector of dangerous
cargoes, working under the Common-
wealth Department of Supply and Ship-
ping.
War II found him as R.A.A.F. em-
barkation staff-officer (transportation
DANGEROUS CARGOES
and movements), varying his time be-
tween living in comfort on board the
Queen Elizabeth (not often enough, he
says) when she went to Hobart to
revictual, and dealing as well with
potentially dangerous cargoes. When the
first drafts of trainee pilots were sent
to Canada in the then neutral ships of
the Matson line he was responsible for
all details of their passports and taxa-
tion-clearance certificates ; when the
Idomeneus came into Sydney Harbor
with a leaking cylinder of mustard-gas
in her hold he was concerned with
decontamination and removal of the
rest of the cargo to a place of safety.
He ended the war as squadron-leader,
and after demob, was with Angus and
Robertson until recently retiring.
• •
“Ek Dum” pays his tribute: —-
It was typical of Brigadier Walter Paton
MacCallum that, for all his war-record and
other service to the country, his name was
little known to the public. The son of a
distinguished professor—Sir Mungo MacCallum,
gentle and much beloved, and esteemed as
one of the great literary scholars of his day
—he enlisted at 19 in the First A.I.F. and
served in the fighting-line on Gallipoli and in
France, returning home at 23 (with three men-
tions in dispatches) to resume his medical
career where he had left off. He qualified in
1924.
By the time War II came along he was
a distinguished physician, and, after two years
with the A.A.M.C. in the Middle East, Greece,
Crete and the Netherlands East Indies, became
.Deputy Director-General of Medical Services
in 1942 and held that office throughout the war.
Afterwards he w'as honorary consulting-
physician to the Royal Alexandra Hospital
for Children, the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital
(Sydney) and the Ryde Soldiers’ Memorial
Hospital, and in recent years hon. consulting-
physician to the Prince Henry Hospital and
a member of the N.S.W. Medical Defence
Council.
As well as all that, he did a tremendous
amount of honorary work for returned
soldiers at Concord Repatriation Hospital and
elsewhere, always with a quiet, unsoldierly air
that belied his string of war-won decorations
—C.B'.E., D. 5.0., M.C. Never blessed with
a strong constitution, strikingly like his dis-
tinguished father in figure, he was a volcano
of quiet activity in his prime, a whale for
detail and an enthusiast in his own field.
To the last he took a great interest in the
affairs of his old school, Sydney Grammar,
whose functions, especially those on the military
side, he attended regularly. He died suddenly
after playing some golf with an old war-time
associate.
• •
Not only did pharmacists roll-up from
all parts of Victoria and inter-State to
wish a happy retirement to Ben Haigh,
but to ensure the going would be smooth
for him they gave him a Mercedes
Benz.
He has had 30 years as g.-m. of
Sigma Co., Ltd., a co-operative drug-
wholesaler, which is established chiefly
in Victoria but has pharmaceutical
shareholders in all States.
Ben Haigh built Sigma up from a very
little show in the depression to the size
of 700 employees currently ; and 450
shareholders turned-up for the dinner,
completely filling Menzies’ dining-room.
• •
Melbourne artist Dick Ovenden, who
has lately been painting among the
rhododendrons and azaleas in William
Austin Comeadow's garden at Woodend
(Vic.), took time off to sketch the
owner, who can still look cheerful
in spite of holding down a number of
office-bearing jobs and being a member
of many committees, including those
associated with New Australians, flowers
(he’s president of the Victorian Horti-
cultural Society), charities, advertising,
Red Cross, technical schools, the C.T.A.,
and libraries. Also he’s a City Coun-
cillor, has just resigned the chairman-
MELBOURNE COMMITTEES
ship of Moomba, was formerly horti-
cultural-editor of the “Argus,” and has
spent much of his civic life lately urging
Melburnians to a brighter outlook, even
trying to set an example by inviting
Brigitte Bardot to drive down Bourke
Street on a float in the Moomba Festival.
But he made no headway with Miss
Bardot.
With all these activities be naturally
doesn't get much time for business. He
puts in a couple of hours a day with
Printers Pty., Ltd., and Archer’s Printery,
of each of which he is managing-director,
and he explains he can do this because
he has good staffs. He must have.
• •
Into the Silence: —-
At Southampton (Eng.), Ernest Favenc
Chin, Sydney-born heart-surgeon and head ot:
the Southampton Thoracic Unit. In War 11
he was with the Royal Navy in the Dieppe
raid, was wounded at Murmansk (Russia), and
later fought in North Africa. In 1956, as
Hunterian Professor, he delivered the oration
to the Royal College of Surgeons in London,
In Aberdeen (Scotland), at 65, Admiral Sir
Roderick McGrigor, who led the Allied naval
forces in the invasions of Sicily and Italy; he
was First Sea Lord, 1951-55.
In Bombay, at 54, Prince Duleepsinhji, Test
batsman and nephew of the great Ranjitsinhji.
He was a former Indian High Commissioner in
Australia.
In Brisbane, at 67, Archibald Cameron
Treweeke, of Umbercoilie, Goondiwindi (Q.>,
Merino studmaster, recognised Shorthorn expert
and fine horseman.


ABORIGINALITIES
hearing-time on the bigger stations
on the East Coast and Poverty
Bay districts of New Zealand means
hard work for shepherds and hands.
When the shearing is done by a Maori
contractor he will generally employ a
“Dad, of course, lived in the modern age.”
ADELAIDE-SYDNEY-ADELAIDE
Drive into solitude, camp by a clump of
myall
On the red soil and, when it is dawn,
hear the currawongs call
Purely up and clearly down, while the
’roos graze quietly
And a wedgetail sits hugely still on a
little, stalky tree.
The car opens the ■ country of square
miles and little wire,
Past a mulga where a beer-bottle snoozes
in the hammock of a blown-out tyre,
The only pounding message the tyres in
the corrugations,
No telephone, no letters, no business, no
relations.
Eastward into the Riverina, the camp
smokes where a creek flows
Under great white gums racketing with
sulphur-crested cockatoos,
And a bloke just back from Paris says,
“Oh, it’s all right,
But for a bit of real fun give me good
old Dennie on a Saturday night.’’
Sydney, too . tells you all quickly, like a
taxi-driver:
“l took a lass to one of these night-clubs,
cost me a fiver
A head and the waiter spilt wine on me
jacket,
1 didn’t get a glow, what’s worse, I didn’t
even crack it.”
Sydney it seems is mostly surrounded by
sea
And entirely filled with liquids the color
of claret or whisky,
Though old friends’ voices fail beside a
Pommy neigh :
“So you drove from Adelaide? I suppose
you barbecued MADLY all the way ?”
Home lies by a crooked line a long way
north through Bourke
Where there is a river called Darling and
a storekeeper called McGurk,
And if you camp southwards, near the
low water’s high shore,
And stand tree-still at evening, a delicate-
stepping black boar
Shuffles past, twenty yards away, and an
old fox
With a white tip to his tail trots along
beneath flocks
Of black cockatoos flying home to the
river,
Winding their dark scarf around the
evening’s first shiver.
Next day eleven emus stalk slowly down
to drink,
A long sip, and then the neck uplifted
to let the water sink,
While above them float the softest pink
shells
As one bushy tree endlessly tosses out
Major Mitchells.
In these wandering plains the river’s
architecture,
With its dislike of restrictions, its insis-
tence on curves and the texture
Of powdery seams, neverthless imposes
its own order
With rings on trees and the cool purpose
of green water.
As for men, there’s a ruin and a tomb-
stone
Partially toppled by rabbits, Patrick
Doolan’s bones,
Died 1880, cet. 30,
Nothing left of his house but the proof
of how wonderfully thirsty
He was, hundreds of bottles, champagne,
Burgundy, pale ale, their color sunned
to a faint stain,
Violet and purple once, sauce and 0.T.,
Glen Li vet, schnapps, Bols gin, all the
best, and hundreds neatly
Buried ostrich-wise for their bottoms to
enclose
Borders for flowers where now, not even
a grass-blade grows.
At the last night’s camp, far south of
Broken Hill,
If you look up in the moonlight the still
gum-leaves fill
The sky like stars with their separate
gleam
That twinkles when a faint wind blows;
later, a dream
Of rain, which, on waking, comes exactly
true.
Break camp, before the ten faded cloud
wraps dust in glue,
And drive away, mud thumping the
mudguards, till the tar
Glistening ties the trim paddocks down.
The far
Fades, the close crowds happily around,
back
Home, dusted softly by a distant track.
S.A.
GEOFFREY DUTTON.




team of women and girls on fleece-
rolling and piece-picking. On one station
there was a pretty constant coming and
going between the shepherds’ quarters
and the shearers’ accommodation, and,
as this traffic was mostly through the
sheepyards, gates were left unfastened
and sheep would get boxed -up over-
night, and have to be redrafted. So the
station-manager decided to chat the head-
shepherd. “Johnny,” he said, “I hear
you’ve been haying some wild parties
in the quarters.” “Too bad, Boss,”
answered Johnny. “What’s too bad?”
roared the Trump. “Too bad, Boss.
You’ve struck an off-night.”—“Brolga.”
* * t
“Cisticola”: It would be wrong to
suppose, as N. G. Rae seems to
imply (B. 18/11/’59), that the Overflow
Station near Nymagee (N.S’.W.) is the
only area bearing that Clancyish name.
The new Australian Encyclopcedia makes
it clear that the term is applied to three
pastoral properties, two of which are
in N. S. Wales and the third in the
Barcoo district of Central Queensland.
“Banjo” Paterson may have had one of
these three stations in mind when
“What are YOU getting for Christmas?”
acclaiming Clancy of the Overflow, but
it’s also possible that he used the term
in a general sense as relating to country
subject to the overflow of the Macquarie
River.
% * * *
“Dicky”: The fummy we inherited
with the house occasionally stalks up
the hill, playing at being tiger, and re-
turns with a young kitten-rabbit, where-
upon he makes for the athol-trees, under
which he spends the rest of the day
dining and dozing. Following one of
these forays his ceaseless yowling and
meowing on the veranda brought me
out to investigate. Dangling from his
jaws was a jet-black bunny. His yelling
was obviously for us to come and see
the freak he’d found. Perhaps it helps
kill the notion that cats are color-blind.
Tnteresting hobbies some blokes have,
Came across a chap holding a large
stumpy-tail by the back of the neck and
carefully probing and peering under the
scales, despite the angry tongue darting
at his face. In response to my polite
inquiry he muttered: “Poor devil needs
a bath! ” Then, realising his reply was
scarcely a model of clarity, he added:
“They get lice under their scales and
they irritate the flesh. A mate of mine,
down at the store, bathes ’em with some
stuff to kill the lice.” He peered again
at Stumpy-tail. “Hm—lice, all right,
Think I’ll take him down to Johnno.
Can’t set him free in this state.” And,
with the lizard protesting like a small
boy who hates a bath, the enthusiast
strode purposefully off.—“ Elbow.”
„. * * *
“Dune”: That American belt-maker
who is here to negotiate purchase of
kangaroo-hides, mentioned by “Kelms”
(B. 18/11 /’59), is named Hickok, not
Kickok, and the variety of belts his firm
makes appears to be inexhaustible. The
belt that holds my rammies up at the
moment is a Hickok, and it is a beautiful
elastic affair, plaited in much the same
way as bushmen used to plait their
kangaroo-hide belts. One of the most
comfortable affairs imaginable, it does
its supporting job without being pulled
tight and gives with the motions of the
body. The tongue of the buckle goes
through between the plaits of elastic,
obviating the need for holes or eyelets,
and in consequence can be adjusted to
one-eighth of an inch instead of, say,
the usual inch-and-a-bit space between
eyelet-holes
* * * *
“J.W.”: “Margaret’s” governess (B.
25/11/ ’59) was either born lucky or she
lived in a later period than 1902. Then,
class-distinction relegated my country
governess to the school - room —
she had a hard time ; the family were
kind but condescending; the servants
resented her, and her position pro-
hibited her mixing with the hoi polloi
in the township. The lot of the city
governess was not much better, except
that she got every second Sunday off.
Her wages were the same. In one very
grand house at Darling Point, Sydney, a
whole staff was maintained at a cost of
20s. 6d. a week: cook, 7s. 6d.; house-
parlormaid, ss. 6d.; governess, 7s. 6d.
What’s more, the maids wore uniform:
cotton prints in the morning, black with
elegant cap and apron in the afternoon.
The house still stands, although the
mistress has been dust for many years.
No doubt there are many of your readers
who remember similar households ; they
abounded in Potts Point ... I know ; I
was brought up in one, in later years.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: What is the biggest
crocodile recorded in northern Austra-
lian waters? Largest I heard of while
round Cape York way was over 25ft.,
but a lady croc.-hunter who operated
along the Gulf of Carpentaria put the
figure at just over 33ft. De Prado, in
his journal of Torres’ expedition through
Torres Strait in 1606, mentioned “a
caiman more than 40ft. long” which
came to the ship every night at a place
where they anchored, “a fierce brute
which was punctual in its visit.”
* * # =p
“Shamuseen”: I admit that mead-
making, for the connoisseur, belongs in
the realm of the monkish maestros ; but
the old-timers in the Mitta Mitta (Vic.)
district gleaned from their own hives
a consolation not unpleasing to their
unsophisticated palates. There, the
mettlesome mead was decanted on
successive Sabbaths, according to a
neatly-calculated schedule of fermenta-
tion, which permitted hospitality at
rostered farmsteads, also on Sundays.
The pigs that regularly got sozzled on
the lees fed to them were appreciative
of the routine. My dad declared that
the swine could so accurately calculate
the Sunday on which their proprietor
was scheduled to play host that they
would honk belligerently in protest at
any delay. He claimed also that, from
a spectator’s viewpoint, the disputes be-
tween the porcine gents lost little in
comparison with those between the pro-
prietor’s guests. Likewise the Monday-
morning hangovers.
* * * *
“Swelpme”: It is many years since I
read in a natural-history magazine that,
although white markings on the under-
side of a dark-furred animal were com-
mon, they seldom occur the other way
round, but when they do it is Nature’s
warning that the animal is odoriferous,
the skunk and polecat being held-up as
examples. And now in Ellis Troughton’s
Furred Animals of Australia I find an
Australian confirmation: “By a strange
coincidence the rather dainty possum
[the striped-possum] not only has a
skunklike color-pattern, but also exudes
a pungent glandular-odor which should
repel its enemies.”


A stuffed fish in a glass case looks
down on the garrulous customers
in a Victorian country pub. An inscrip-
tion says: “If this fish had kept its
mouth shut, it wouldn't be here.” —
“N. S.”
* * * *
“Q. Ree”: 1 stopped and admired the
Fijiart baby. “He is lovely,” 1 told the
mother. “Ah, marama,” she said, and
looked at the healthy little boy, “he is
black.”
:|c % fjc
“Clara”: I travelled on A.N.A.'s
“Stations Run” a couple of years ago,
the regular weekly flight from Cairns
to Normanton (on the Gulf of Carpen-
taria) to Mitchell River Mission, visiting
a dozen or more stations. Half our
passengers between Normanton and the
mission were aborigines going to jobs
as stockmen or returning to the mission.
Because of short hops and tropical air-
currents, air-sickness was common. Those
who talk of color-bars would think twice
if they had witnessed the gentle care
the hostess gave one big blackfellow
who was sick, or the way she offered
them sweets at every landing and take-
off, often only a few minutes apart,
“because they like them.”
»i*
“Jesmondene” :• One - third of the
bubbly with which Princess Alex, bap-
tised the Oriana was champagne from
Concongella (Vic.), where is racked wine
creditable to its founding vigneron, Hans
Irvine, of Great Western, and worthy
of the Pinot Blanc grapes brought here
from the Marne, Aube and Aisne com-
munes in 1887.
* * * *
“Pieter Nuyts”: Any attempt to im-
prove, modernise or beautify a city is
bound to raise some opposition, but a
group which is seeking support for a
botanic gardens for native-plants in
Perth’s King’s Park has been rocked
by the latest objection—that “our wild-
flowers bloom for only two months of
the year and are faded and dead for
10.” The fact is the sou’-Westralian bush
carries blooms for a greater part of the
year than almost any other locality in
the world. Apart from being a bee-
keeper’s paradise, it supports a big
population of honeyeaters, a family of
birds that have adapted themselves to
living very largely on nectar from forest-
blooms and from insects that also come
for the nectar. An adaptation like these
birds’ marvellous brush-tongues wouldn’t
arise in a locality where blooms were
available for only a few months of the
year.
* * * *
“Bass”: Those Air Force pilots who
flew crates between obstacles with a
bare 3ft. or 4ft. to spare (B. 11/11/’59)
could have learnt something from a
Flying Doctor based on Darwin. On a
mercy call southward he followed the
railway until he lost it in a fog ; then,
unable to pick up a landmark, he decided
to land and save his fuel for the morn-
ing. He put the crate down all right,
but lound that he’d left his axe behind,
and to take-off he had to fly between
two trees almost at the end of his
improvised runway, when he’d be at top
ground-speed. The trees looked mighty
close, but a careful measurement gave
him ample clearance, so next morning
he took-off, lound his bearings, and
leached his destination. He was a good
doctor, but that particular patient owed
his life to two other factors—Clive
Fenton’s skill as a pilot, and the fact
that those two trees were a few inches
further apart than the tips of his plane’s
wings.
* -!' *
“H.A.L.”: “Paper-oil” (B. 11/11/’59),
made by burning brown-paper or news-
paper on any cold surface which will
condense the smoke, is merely a wood-
tar with properties like those of carbolic
or creosote for killing germs and bac-
teria. It is also a mild anaesthetic, hence
its use as a bush remedy for toothache.
Greek doctors of the Hippocratic School
2500 years ago made it by holding a
cold knife-blade in the smoke of a
burning knot of pine-wood and scraping
off the tar for use as a salve.
ijc :Jc ❖
OLD MAN MURRAY
Tgnorant Victorians who had never
seen Mildura or even the world’s
23rd-largest river except fleetingly under
an odd bridge or two, we embarked on
a Murray paddleboat five-day cruise.
The cabin-accommodation with h. and
c. water, bed-lights and louvred windows,
mosquito-screened, bettered that of
20,000-ton liners. Deck-space, either for
sun-baking or coddling the complexion,
was ample for the 32 voyagers. The
forward-hold embodied a spacious sit-
ting-room with piano and wood stove ;
the after-hold was the dining-saloon,
with a cuisine about 100 per cent, above
the average country pub, though re-
grettably lacking fish by reason of the
closed season on Murray cod.
The bar operated simply on the prin-
ciple that at any time consonant with
N.S.W. liquor-laws you pressed the bell,
and the chief-engineer ascended from
his dieselised department and attended
your liquid wants. In best tradition
cuppas and currant-cake were laid on
generously and punctually at 7.30 a.m.
and IQ a.m., 4 p.m. and 10 p.m.
The really young had a lovely time
prawning, resultlessly but relentlessly
fishing, seeing how close they could go
without falling overboard, and obeying
with equanimity the captain’s wise ukase
that any on-board scampering must be
done by bootless feet. The engineer
entertained one night with projected
color-slides of the river, its craft, its
adjacent occupation and an impressive
fund of information, ranging from the
acreage under vines to the capacity of
irrigation-pumps.
We tied-up about four-o’clock each
afternoon, our only criticism being that
the berthing-place was inhabited solely
by redgums. The seven U.S. tourists
on board hankered in vain to see a flock
of sheep, a mob of cattle or even a
kangaroo, and wistfully mentioned they
hadn’t yet had a chop-picnic or billy-
tea. I suppose these things are irksome
to organise, particularly since the
dieselisation of such craft has severed
shore contact with firewood-suppliers.
The fare of £l9 for a Sunday-to-Friday-
night trip wa's, of course, less than
modest.
For ihe American passengers a sur-
prising episode in their acquaintance
with this border-river was enwrapped
with their land-transport. From Mel-
bourne their tourist-coach crossed the
Murray into N.S.W. at Euston, then re-
approached Vic. territory at the N.S.W.
hamlet of Buronga. There, at the
witching hour of midnight, the bus-
driver stopped and told the passengers to
leave their luggage but decant them-
selves into waiting taxis, which would
follow the coach two miles across the
river-border into Mildura, where they
would regain their luggage. Puzzled
passengers were only dimly enlightened
by the explanation of sophisticates that
this enigmatic shenanigan was called
“border-hopping.” •
JESMONDENE.


There’s richer enjoyment in every glass
Australia’s
Better Brandy
stagings
Pot still brandy
There’s no drink at once so stimulating ... so
relaxing ... so cheering at all times as good
Australian brandy. And no brandy offers you
richer, more satisfying enjoyment than St. Agnes.
All the skill and experience of careful wine mak-
ing, distilling and blending are combined in the
perfection of St. Agnes Brandy . . . winning for St. Agnes a
distinguished reputation for quality, both in Australia and the
world over!
Enjoy the
Better Brandy
STAGINGS
Old Liqueur
or Three Star
BRANDY
ANGOVE’S LTD. of RENMARK, S.A. • WINEMAKERS & DISTILLERS
ASK ALSO FOR ANGOVE'S WINE
Business, Robbery, Etc.
MIXED MARKET MOVES
■COR the second time in the
A past two months there has
been a weakening in Australian
sharemarkets, following an
unprecedented boom in indus-
trial, hire-purchase and other
shares.
The weakening has followed
warnings by Staniforth Ricket-
son, of Were’s, and by the
Bank of New South Wales that
the rise in equity-share values
generally had tended to outrun
immediate prospects of income-
return.
The ’Wales specifically used
the phrase “prolonged boom
on the Stock Exchange”. The
word “boom” usually carries its
own warnings to sharemarket
observers who have had experi-
ence of booms before. Nearly
every boom is followed by a
reaction. The daily press in
Australia seems to have been
reluctant to use the word in
connection with the share-
market upsurge of the past two
years. But a boomer it
certainly has been—described
by The Bulletin as a freak
sharemarket, whipped-up by
takeover speculation and by
taxation anomalies and other
factors, including unusual over-
seas buying, which have carried
industrial shades out of the
realm of investment for in-
come and whetted the market
appetite instead for capital-
gains,
Almost simultaneous with
T\. ’\y a } es warning has
come a mixed development of
economic circumstances
th e calling-in of reserve deposits
b Y the central bank from the
trading-banks, the inflationary
increases in wage-margins
(following a lift of 15s. a week
in the Federal basic wage in
June), the easing of controls
on imports, the announcement
from various sources (and
variously interpreted) of some
excess capacity in manufactur-
ing-industry, and, finally,
reports from London that the
Bank Rate might have to be
raised following an outflow
°f funds from the U.K. as a
result of the lifting of interest-
r^tes in Frankfurt and New
York.
The sharemarket itself has
found a slackening in the
stimulus of major takeovers
and has lately been treated
to the sight of some poor trad-
ing-results of various—mostly
small or middle-sized—corn-
panies, indicating, as forecast
here earlier in the year, that
trading-results have in fact
been patchy over the past 18
months, that in an economy
where overall manufacturing
productivity increased by some-
thing of the order of an average
5 p.c. there were bound to be
minuses as well as pluses, and
that costs in some cases would
outstrip increased turnover-
margins.
Tn patchy economic con-
A ditions selectivity in share-
buying should be a cardinal
rule ; but the market practice
for the past 18 months has
been to follow general market
“tone,” and to bid-up for any
stock that has not so far had a
black mark against it.
Various brokers have gone
to the trouble of producing
booklets which show that leading
industrial stocks bought at high
prices and held for lengthy
periods have given their holders
a very poor return by way of
dividends but a high paper-
profit in the form of capital-
appreciation. In the mood of
the past year investors were
more likely to take note of the
capital-gains and to ignore the
poor dividend experience.
Oelection of stocks according
to their apparent invest-
ment merits is the only course
to be followed by an investor at
any time. “Following the
market up” is pure speculation.
At present selective buying is
the one line to be followed,
and in a market that is showing
weakening tendencies there may
be opportunities for buying
on better terms than have been
available for some months.
There appear to be great
prospects of industrial expan-
sion in Australia over the next
decade,' but where a stock is
being bought to give a yield of,
say, only 3 p.c. much of the
expansion, so far as that stock
is concerned, may be already
discounted.
In some cases it may be
more than a decade before a
stock representing an expand-
ing secondary industry will be
able to pay reasonable divi-
dends because of the need
for profit-retention in order to
finance expansion. B.H.P. is
just such an investment enigma.
It makes juicy profits, but share-
holders are kept on 8| per cent,
because of the urgent present
need to turn profits into capital.
nPHUS far we have considered
_ the sharemarket from the
point of view of a fairly stable
but expanding economy.
What the effect of an increas-
ing rate of inflation that could
arise from recent arbitration-
court awards w'ould be depends
largely on what action—if any
—is taken to counter it. Unin-
hibited inflation would create
a further great demand for
equity-shares. But Budgetary
or central-bank action to
counter inflationary influences
could impose special penalties
on the proprietary side of
industry as much as on the con-
sumer side, just as was the case
in 1951-52. Already the slack-
ening of import-controls is
having an effect on some of our
manufacturing industries
through the letting-in of increas-
ing overseas competition. This
tends to counter inflation. But it
makes things particularly diffi-
cult for Australian enterprises
now subject to the wage-infla-
tion that is on again in nearly
every industry.
Counter - inflationary mea-
sures could prick sharemarket
buoyancy.
In the United Kingdom
greater stability of costs and
prices remains a major aim of
Government policy. On
November 3 the Chancellor of
the Exchequer, Mr. Thorney-
croft, said that it was “of the
utmost importance that where
output is rising and costs are
falling the gains should not be
entirely taken in higher wages
or bigger profits, but should
also be shared far more widely
in the form of lower prices.”
That is a text to be studied
by alb industrial and economic
authorities in Australia as well,
even though costs at the present
time don’t look much like
falling.


How to give
“the very thing”
Choosing a gift is usually difficult. When you don’t
&
vV-
s*.
m
m
know what is wanted,
you can still give “the
very thing” in a most
charming manner
with a Bank of New
South Wales Christmas Gift Cheque. This Gift
Cheque combines a gay greetings card with a
personal cheque.
Gift Cheques may be obtained at any branch,
whether you have an account or not. The cost is only
1 3d. (including stamp duty) plus, of course, the
amount you intend to give.
This Christmas, give
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
94
Issued by the Bank of New South Wales
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
Also available: Gift Cheques for Birthdays, Weddings,
Mother’s Day, and General Purposes.
A5953c
A.W.A.
/'Vn a buoyant turnover (up
£2.3 million at £15.7
million —parent only), Amal-
gamated Wireless (Australasia),
Ltd., has shown a profit
£30,186 higher at £701,259.
That was after undisclosed
provisions for taxation, depre-
ciation £252,272, and undis-
closed contingencies.
‘The disclosed profit repre-
sented 31 p.c. on capital as it
has stood for the past three
years, or 23.4 p.c. on the £3
million of capital and con-
vertible notes combined (the
notes are convertible on
30/6/’62).
Dividend on the ordinaries
was lifted from 14 p.c. (9 p.c.
in 1956-57) to 16 p.c. Prior
to the doubling of capital by a
bonus-issue in August, 1956,
the div. had stood at 16 p.c.
The ss. shares at 275. 9d.
return only 2.8 p.c. on a
16 p.c. div. basis; and total
disclosed earnings to market
price is 5.5 p.c.
But in spite of the 17 p.c.
increase in turnover last year,
stocks and work-in-progress
appeared in the books only
£140,769 higher at £3,681,884,
and trade debtors were down
£238,532 at £2,178,284.
These figures look conser-
vative both in relation to the
increase in turnover and in
relation to turnover itself.
Accumulated depreciation
provision figures at £2,119,462
against plant of £1,462,065 and
wireless services of £1,024,015.
Land and buildings appear
at £1,681,661, and, rather than
requiring any depreciation
offset, are probably in at below
the present valuation of the
freeholds, even though writing-
up of freeholds provided most
of the 1956 bonus-issue.
One of the balance-sheet
items most intriguing to
investors, however, is “shares
in subsidiary companies—at
cost—£2oo,7B6” (down £7500
during the year). This would
include the holding in Amal-
gamated Wireless Valve Co.
Pty., Ltd., which shares the
market with Philips in the
manufacture of radio-valves
(used also in TV) in Australia.
A.W.A.’s published figures
are not consolidated figures.
Nor is there any directois’
certificate stating whether
profits of subsidiaries are in-
cluded in the p.-and-l. account
in the form of dividends or
otherwise. In view of the fact
that some subsidiaries appear
as debtors to the parent co.,
it would seem that these par-
ticular ones are not called upon
to pass-on much of their
profits.
A.W.A. is in the happy posi-
tion of being a major manu-
facturer of new TV- and radio-
sets, and at the same time an
exclusive supplier of many
replacement-parts. That is
apart from its many other
radio and electronic activities,
some of them exclusive to
A.W.A. in Australia.
Tt is obviously a dynamic
business, especially so when
the restoration of the 16 p.c.
within three years of the oner
for-one bonus-issue is kept in
mind.
Lend Lease Buildings
is being placed on
*- J new buildings in the First
National Buildings Trust being
sponsored and guaranteed by
Lend Lease Corporation, Ltd.,
Sydney.
An 8 p.c. p.a. income is
guaranteed for three years by
Lend Lease. Repurchase is
undertaken “on demand in
normal circumstances.”
The first trust is offering two-
million 10s. units at par, plus
a service-fee not exceeding
74- p.c.
An average return of at
least 8 p.c. p.a. is expected
over the 15-year life of the
fund. Investments will be
spread over commercial, pro-
fessional and industrial build-
ings, home-units and flats,
houses, land, mortgages and
shares in cos. having an
interest in land.
Management is in the hands
of Lend Lease Corp., which, in
addition to the service-fee, may
levy a management-fee of half
of one per cent, on the current
value of the trust-fund collected
at half-yearly intervals.
Real-estate advisers to the
trust are Richardson and
Wrench, Ltd., and consulting
sharebrokers are Charles A.
Ord and Minnett.
Hodgson’s New Issue
A new one-for-three issue
of ords. at par by
Hodgson’s Holdings, Ltd., of
Summer Hill (Sydney), will be
available to present holders of
both ords. (£160,000 in 10s.
units) and convertible notes
(£50,000).
The issue will bring in
£70,000, and will take capital
up to £230,000.
The notes are convertible on
December l, 1961, and, in the
absence of any further issues
meanwhile, capital will then
rise to £280,000.
Hodgson’s have a depart-
ment-store at Summer Hill, a
widespread selling and delivery
service, and the co. carries its
own finance for credit sales
and hire-purchase.
Sales for 1958-59 were up
18.2 p.c. on the preceding
year, and 52 p.c. higher than
in 1954-55, the year prior tto
public flotation.
Net profit for 1958-59,
after £18,939 tax, was £33,563,
equal to 21 p.c. on ord. capital
(after charging the 8 p.c.
interest on convertible notes).
The dividend was kept at
10 p.c.
Net tangible backing for the
10s. ords. was 17s. Id. last
balance-day, and there was
considerable undisclosed
strength in freehold properties
(£56,845).
Stocks were then £148,270,
book-debts £287,972, and
current liabilities £160,726,
including taxation and other
provisions.
The ords., cum rights, have
recently sold at 17s. The con-
vertible £1 notes are not often
dealt in, but, with conversion
only two years off, should be


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urquhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Mullens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
BWBI7I (3 lines) 8L5327
Cables & Telegrams
DAVIS, ROTHWELL & CO.
(Incorporating Headlam, Hewson & Co.)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.)
ll? Pitt Street, Sydney.
Bli 1855 (3 lines)
193 Summer Street, Orange.
Orange 4034
Telegraphic and Cable Address, “RETEP," Sydney.
well worth 30s. with the ords.
at 17s.
The new issue of ord.
capital is underwritten by Mc-
Nall and Hordern, of Sydney
’Change.
Commonwealth Fertilisers
sharemarket interest in
Commonwealth Fertilisers
arises from large holdings by
Cuming Smith, Ltd., and Mt.
Lyell Mining and Railway Co.,
which are listed on ’Change.
Commonwealth Fertilisers’
2,177,856 £1 ords. aren’t listed.
Competition in the fertiliser
business in Victoria was intense
last financial year, with demand
affected by low wool prices and
a dry summer and autumn.
Fertiliser sales by Common-
wealth Fertilisers and Chemicals
fell by £897,727 to £3,846,758,
but sales of chemicals were
slightly higher at £1,395,731.
The co.’s net profits, after
providing £109,000 taxation
(£195,750 previous year), fell
from £283,506 to £212,337. (Of
the latest profit, £98,184 was
tax-free investment income,
compared with £82,341 in the
preceding term.)
As usual, taxation provision
for profits from trading seems
particularly high £109,000
tax, against tax-paid trading
profit of £114,153.
During the year the co. sold
a parcel of its shares in
ICIANZ —apparently 140,809
of them —at a profit of
£288,506, for which more
remunerative use is apparently
expected to be made in the
business. This leaves Common-
wealth Fertilisers with a parcel
of 1,015,150 listed shares,
mostly in ICI, in the books at
par.
Since the close of accounts
ICI has lifted its div.-rate
from 9 p.c. to 10 p.c. p.a.
Although 7 p.c. on C.F.
prefs. (896,904 of them, £1
each) and a steady 6 p.c.. on
the ords. called for all but
£18,883 of the year’s disclosed
profit, the true margin appears
to be much greater, especially
if the undistributed ICI earn-
ings are taken into account.
Although the reverse in
Commonwealth Fertilisers’
profit has had the effect of
bringing the price of Cuming
Smith’s shares down from 565.
to 495. 3d., the high asset-
backing existing in Cuming
Smith’s holdings (direct and
indirect) in ICIANZ, Mt. Lyell
Farmers’ Fertilisers, and Aus-
tralian Fertilisers, together
with the undistributed profits
of these concerns, makes the
long-term prospect for the
shares more attractive than
appears on the surface.
H & S Credits (Newcastle)
/Circulars posted by H and
S Credits (Newcastle),
Ltd., have been offering in-
vestors 12 p.c. p:a. on five-year
fixed-deposits, 11 p.c. for four
years, 10 p.c. for three, and
1\ p.c. for “on-call” or “short-
call” money.
Does H and S Credits offer
these high rates of interest out
of generosity or because it
finds it necessary to do so in
order to attract the money?
Whatever the answer, it is
not to be found in the “in-
formation booklet” accom-
panying the form-letter circu-
lated during November. Details
of the co.’s financial structure
or profit-earning capacity were
not there revealed. But it was
mentioned that the co. is pro-
hibited by law from paying
more than 10 p.c. p.a. for
money raised in Tasmania.
Development Finance Corp.
A t the annual meeting of
Development Finance Cor-
poration, Ltd., in Sydney on
December 7, chairman John
H. D. Marks told shareholders
that the resources of the Aus-
tralian continent had as yet
been barely scratched, and with
modern equipment and tech-
niques its development can pro-
ceed at a rate which, a few
years ago, would have seemed
impossible. Present inflation-
ary pressure, he added, cannot
be ignored, and in order to
retain our export markets we
must avoid prices in Australia
increasing at a faster rate than
prices abroad.
During the 1957-58 financial
term a number of D.F.C.
projects planned in earlier years
were brought to a successful
conclusion. “These included
the provision of capital, the
negotiation of licences to im-
prove production techniques
in this country, and the nego-
tiation of associations between
Australian and overseas com-
panies.”
In February, 1959, a new
subsidiary, Delfin Discount
Pty., became an authorised
dealer in the new short-term
money-market.
Net .profit for the year of
D.F.C. and its subsidiaries,
after £118,851 of tax, and
setting aside £29,182 for
minority shareholders, was
£203,867, equal to 20.3 p.c. on
the round million of capital
now paid-up. A p.c. div.
was declared for the year.
The co. on June 30
had £642,448 of “corporate
securities,” at the lower of cost
or market-value. This is its
“trading stock.” Delfin Pro-
perties shares —the co. is owned
jointly with Eagle, Star In-
surance —are in at £lOO,OOO.
Short - term money - market
activities are shown by Com-
monwealth securities at
£9,577,691 and, on the other
side of the accounts, deposits of
£9,427,914.
Development Finance Cor-
poration, Ltd., is the major
shareholder, through United
Investments, Ltd., in Australian
Fixed Trusts Pty.
D.F.C. itself has several large
overseas shareholders, includ-
ing the Rothschilds, Pearl
Assurance, Prudential Assur-
ance, Lehmann Bros. (New
York), Eagle, Star Insurance,
and Philip Hill, Higginson and
Co.
Australian investors in
D.F.C. included Patrick
Nominees Pty., Mercantile
Mutual Insurance, Commercial
Banking Co. of Sydney, Bank
of Adelaide, Washington H.
Soul, Pattinson and Co., and
a number of others.
Latest move by Develop-
ment Finance Corporation is
to give its backing and blessing
to the establishment of a wool-
futures market in Australia.
The D.F.C. board does not
intend to increase the co.’s paid
capital beyond the present £1
million until after the scrip is
listed on the Australian Stock
Exchanges. When listing does
come it should be accompanied
by a lively public investment
interest.


A DISCRIMINATING HOST’S FIRST CHOICE
(Pemofn
Vintage Wines
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS: CRAIG MOSTYN & CO. PTY. LTD.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Borovansky
Well, Heaven be praised for
Borovansky: that’s one piece of
Australian theatre you can
always rely on to be first-class.
He always has elegant and
sometimes excellent principals ;
if a ballerina fell over, as one
has seen happen in the most
august places overseas, or even
crooked a finger out of place,
he would probably leap out
from the wings and strangle
her on the spot. Sets, costumes,
music—if sometimes you can
quibble—are always carefully
attended to ; the whole thing
has a verve which can more
than hold its own with most
overseas companies, short of
the fireworks of the Bolshois.
And this year, for his open-
ing production at Sydney
Empire, in what is either a
most courageous piece of
artistic integrity or a nice bit
of commercialism for Christ-
mas, or a blend of both, he has
put on the whole of “The
Sleeping Princess.”
For children, “The Sleeping
Princess” should have all the
charm of pantomime —»the
Princess, Prince Desire, the
Wicked Fairy, the Nymphs, the
White Cat, Red Ridinghood
and the Wolf, the Blue Birds
and the three bouncing Ivans
—with none of the usual
vulgarity. For adults, it is
not the best of ballets to fill a
whole evening. It hasn’t a
strong enough story to carry
it, nor quite enough lively
dancing. It is a bit thin and
stately and stiff, like an old
masque, and it is easy to see
why most companies simply
put on the superb last act.
But then, in an age supposed
to be too much given to bits
and pieces and “digests,” it is
really very interesting to be
given, for once, a complete
three-act ballet. The old
masques were at least always
graceful and pretty, an essen-
tially aristocratic form of
entertainment; and this ballet
has its rewarding moments all
the way through: Algeranoff
as the Wicked Fairy (as pleas-
ing as he was years ago when
he used to be the Ugly Sister)
coming in to liven-up the
prologue; the Lilac Fairy
(Estella Nova) and her cohorts
at the Sixteenth Birthday
party; the nymphs in their
lovely woodland costumes in
the hunting scene . . . and so
to the magnificent third act
which redeems the whole thing,
and in which the Ivans
bounced like mad, Barbara
“It boils down to this—what right has a primitive to be
so damned realistic ?"
Chambers was an exceptionally
dainty Red Ridinghood, Barry
Walsh and Rosalia Kurowaska
most charming and amusing
as the cats, Jeffrey Kovel and
Estella Nova outstanding as the
Blue Birds and Marilyn Jones
(ably abetted by Garth Welch)
youthfully attractive as Prin-
cess Aurora.
The sets of the palace lacked
something in sumptuousness
and in certainty of design—it
was never quite .clear whether
the thing was taking place in
medieval Europe, ancient
Athens or fairyland —but the
woodland scene had fine color
and spaciousness. The cos-
tumes were excellent.
+%+ * ❖
“Once Upon a Mattress”
Straight from Broadway and
without the usual backing of
a West End success or at the
very least a couple of over-
seas stars, Garnet Carroll’s
choice of “Once Upon a
Mattress” and his selection of
an all-Australian cast for
Melbourne Princess Theatre’s
Christmas production gave the
impression that he was either
taking a faff-sized commercial
risk or simply budgeting.
Neither supposition proved
to be correct.
In the first place this is a
lavish production in anybody’s
language; expensively and,
surprisingly enough, imagina-
tively staged and dressed.
Secondly, as Carroll no doubt
was perfectly aware before-
hand, “Once Upon a Mattress,”
though no world-beater as
musical-comedies go, has
enough charm and freshness,
giggles and gaiety, together
with a featherweight blend
of worldly innocence and
Freudian sophistication, to
make it a certain success with
most Australian audiences,
especially around this time of
the year.
The title, incidentally, is a
trifle misleading—no doubt de-
liberately so. What happened
on a mattress has nothing
whatsoever to do with conven-
tional sex fun-and-games.
What it has to do with is
one Princess Winnifred, who
proved her royal lineage and
thereby won the hand of
Prince Dauntless by turning
and tossing all night atop of
20 mattresses for no other
reason than that there was a
solitary pea underneath them.
Or at least that is what hap-
pened in the original Hans
Andersen fairytale on which
this musical js based.
With a few necessary altera-
tions (such as the addition of
a mandolin, a spiked orb and a
lobster under the mattresses)
this crackpot plot bounces off
the stage of the Princess
Theatre as a genuinely success-
ful musical-comedy mainly be-
cause George Carden has given
it just the sort of ingenious,
quick-paced production that it
needs, and because it has the
benefit of an exceptionally
talented and enthusiastic young
Australian cast to bolster the
sometimes threadbare efforts of
the script.
No. 1 among these is surely
Gloria Dawn (Princess Winni-
fred), whose infectious moat-
swimming hillbilly charm, bel-
lowing brassy voice, volatile
stage-personality and sure sense
of timing make her a perfect
comic suitor of poor mother-
dominated Prince Dauntless.
Others to stand out include
Joy Grisold as the jawing
virago Queen-mother, and Rod
McLennan as Prince Daunt-
less. The music is by Mary
Rodgers, daughter of the
famous Richard, and while few
of her themes are especially
memorable, they are neverthe-
less full of bounce and humor.
♦♦♦ +*«■ *i*
The Adding Machine
In a period of social decay
writers tend to get caught-up
in movements of social protest
or flights from reality into the
occult, or even talk about rein-
carnation. Most of them have
the good sense to confine their
work to one or other of these
fields; but occasionally there


BY APPOINTMENT
TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS,
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.
BORN 1820 —STILL GOING STRONG
JOHNNIE
WALKER
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER 3c SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW.190.12
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO LILLIAN JUNE FORD late of New-
castle* and Willow Tree.—TAKE
NOTICE that ROBERT JOHN FORD has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3917
of 1959 on the ground of desertion for
three y6ars and upwards without just
cause or excuse and on the ground of
your adultery with a man or men un-
known If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by the 29th
day of February 1960 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. ADRIAN TWIGG & CO., Soli-
citors, of 160 Castlereagh Street, Syd-
ney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
TO HAROLD WILLIAM CHARLES
THOMAS MATSEN formerly of Beverley
W.A. (present address unknown). —-
TAKE NOTICE that your wife THELMA
JEAN MATSEN has commenced pro-
ceedings against you in the Supreme
Court of Western Australia for Divorce
on the ground that you have deserted
her for a continuous period of three
years or more and requesting the exer-
cise of the Court’s discretion under
Section 270 of the Matrimonial Causes
and Personal Status Code 1948-1957 If
you desire to defend such proceedings
you must file your defence in the
Central Office of the Supreme Court at
Perth within forty clear days from the
date of this publication In default of
your so doing the case may proceed and
the Court will present judgment and
make orders against you in your
absence. —DATED this 26th day of
November, 1959 —G. J. BOYLSON,
Registrar. MESSRS. ROBINSON, COX
& CO., 20 Howard Street, Perth, Soli,
citors for the Plaintiff.
is the one who goes the whole
hog, and writes about the lot.
This vulgar synopsis may come
off in a novel, but never in a
play, yet it is precisely what
Elmer Rice attempted to do in
“The Adding Machine.”
Canberra Repertory made
what they could of this effort,
which starts as a play on the
impoverishment and degrada-
tion of the individual in a
capitalist society, whisks off
into a discussion of what we
deserve, to bluff us that on that
score some of us do not deserve
to be whipped, and, then, after
a drop and a rise of the curtain,
we are in the antechamber of
Big Brother listening to a rather
emotional history-lesson and a
good pep-talk against resigna-
tion, with some asides on rein-
carnation for good measure.
Even if the big stores can
offer something for everyone,
audiences rightly like to know
where they are. The production
was a little tired and offhand.
The acting, except for Ken
Farnham’s hangdog perform-
ance as Everyman, was un-
distinguished — though less so
than the play.
M.C.
* •* *
“Messiah”
The first of the annual
bumper-crop of the oratorio
was harvested at the Sydney
Town Hall when the Hurl-
stone Choir, the Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra and four
soloists under the direction of
Bernard Heinze got busy.
Of the soloists, Stewart
Harvey sang throughout with
style and assurance. Elaine
Blight drew copiously on the
beautiful quality of her
soprano and her intelligent use
of it, and she was heard to the
best advantage in airs of
gentle introspection. Raymond
McDonald’s tenor, which on
occasions rose richly to the
heights, coped with the middle
and lower registers no more
than adequately. Florence
Taylor’s contralto showed
signs of wearing thin at the
edges.
There is always one very
good feature about a “Messiah”
which is under the Heinze
baton: its ebullience is kept
in strict check so as to give the
soloists every chance of achiev-
ing better-than-parity with
instrumental weight, and this
performance was no exception.
Artbursts
Travelling Abstracts
A collection of abstracts by
15 Australian painters, now on
show at Sydney’s Bissietta
Gallery, is to be sent to the
New Vision Centre, London,
early next year.
This is not an exhaustive
survey of Australian abstract
art; and it might have been
better, in an exhibition of this
size, to limit the artists to one
painting apiece—a representa-
tive example. The inevitable
result of “doubling - up”
(Coburn has four pieces) is that
a show will lack - perspective.
As this exhibition does.
But, allowing for general
lack of scope, there is some
really interesting work. Gleg-
horn’s two —“Rise of the
Moon,” with his customary ear-
marks of engineering tech-
nique, but with important use
of color; and “Moon and
Harbor,” an attractive mixture
of square shapes, pellucid blues
and blacks and greens—would
show-up well in any gallery.
So would Peter Laverty’s
‘Vibrant Bush,” a controlled
rush of foliage (his other one,
“Seabirds Rising,” in which the
wings are fused into an ascend-
ing pattern, is a bit large and
not as tight as the “Bush” sub-
ject). And so would Margo
Lewers’s two, especially the
bright “Bamboo Scaffolding.”
The rest is variable in
quality. Leonard Hessing has
a pleasant ivory finish in
“Mooncharmer,” and “Bride’
is subtly charming; Rapotec
has “Tension” and “Distur-
bance,” both rather aptly
titled ; Roy Fluke has squiggles,
Nancy Borlase technicolor
sweepings, Hector Gilliland two
vague pieces in black, Frank
Hinder two delicate line-com-
positions, and Sheila McDonald
a frankly derivative “Corrob-
oree” which, if it is faintly
monotonous as a picture, shows
potential as a design for a
curtain or rug.
John Coburn has a large
black-flecked shape in “Sum-
mer.” This painting seems to
gyrate from show to show —
present viewer saw it elsewhere
a few weeks back, and now
here it is again: a bloodshot
football threatening to fall into
a black curve. Maybe it will
one day. But he has a nice
blue moon in “Strelitzia Along
the Pacific” and a very wind-
milly windmill in the top left-
hand corner of the somewhat
contrived “Mallee Memories.”
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
Christmas-boxes
Christmas comes but once a
year and if most of the paint-
ings in Sydney Macquarie
Galleries’ Christmas Exhibition
seem to come two or three times
a year there are few of them
one wouldn’t be very pleased
to receive from any admirer,
saint or well-wisher who drops
down the chimney. Cedric
Flower’s wrought-iron bal-
conies, for example ; or Donald
Friend’s “Pottery Market.”
The two painters who have
turned over a fresh leaf for
Christmas and the New Year
are Robert Grieve, whose
“Red Cliff” is so firm in paint
and warm in color that it’s a
pity it doesn’t move one step
nearer realism, and William
Salmon, another expert on
cliffs, who has a lovely bit of
Australian background with a
somewhat dubious tree in front
of it.
In “Malay Boy, Broome”
Russell Drysdale adds another
impressive, drab, monumental


THE FLOATING QUID


WANT TO GIVE SOMEONE
THE PERFECT YEAR- ROUND
GIFT ? JUST FILL IN
THIS FORM-
'At
>
«r“
*)
9
/
(
//
/
y
-WE DO
THE
REST/
m
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept., NEW SUB. / RENEWAL
The Bulletin Newspaper, (Please cross out one)
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque I money-order f0r.......
months' subscription to The Bulletin.
RECIPIENT:
ADDRESS:
DONOR:..
ADDRESS:
GIFT SUBSCRIPTION: If the above is a Christmas gift
an appropriate Greetings-card will be sent direct to the
recipient announcing your gift and signed on your behalf.
SIGN CARD :..., c . , .........
Rates (A/asia): 1 year— £2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British C’wealth: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
and haunting study to his col-
lection of melancholy types
from the outback.
At the same address is a dis-
play of stoneware jewellery
and pottery by Patricia Eng-
lund, the jewellery in the
deliberately-clumsy style, the
pots very elegant.
Films
“Solomon and Sheba”
In 1 Kings ix it was baldly
reported that, in order to learn
for herself if King Solomon's
reputation for wisdom were
true, the Queen of Sheba visited
that monarch and, having
satisfied herself about his
sagacity, departed home with
her extensive retinue.
The Old Testament was
wrong, of course. What she
really came for, vide this ex-
pensive, extensive production,
was to wreak Solomon’s ruin
to please her Pharaoh ally (the
scriptwriters having conveni-
ently overlooked the fact that
Israel's king had married the
Pharaoh's daughter and was
ace-high with the Gyppos).
And what better way to effect
his downfall than by exerting
her feminine wiles to make him
her slave and so turn his people
against him?
After all, with such a beauti-
ful and exotic siren as Gina
Lollabrigida to fill Sheba’s
role, it would be a major
cinematic crime not to have
her hip-swing her way into his
embrace and so prove that even
the wisest of men may wilt at
the sight of a nifty lass.
On one or two points the
story has a basis in truth.
David did prefer Solomon as
his successor to another son,
Adonijar, who in the film is the
chief plotter against the king
at home. But the Biblical
record has his too-ambitious
brother bumped - off by
Solomon after he demanded
the hand of Ashibag,
Solomon’s protege, in marriage,
instead of living to make an
unholy alliance with Egypt
and lead the Gyppo forces
against Solomon. The King
also did build the great Temple
he promised his father, and the
incidence of the disputed baby
is well authenticated. But the
rest is pure fiction.
Its little inaccuracies granted,
the film remains what of
course it was primarily in-
tended to be: a magnificent
spectacle. The battle-scenes are
vivid, and the episode in which
a charging Egyptian army,
blinded by the sun reflected off
the cunning Yiddishers’ burn-
ished shields, hurls itself to
destruction over a precipice is
a first-class piece of camera-
faking. Internal sets are
superb, the costuming lavish
and the crowd-scenes handled
in director King Vidor’s most
skilled manner.
The quality of intense vitality
which is Yul Brynner’s trade-
mark is given plenty of exer-
cise in his role of Solomon.
Lolly adduces quite a good
argument that even a Solomon
could forget the higher things
of life when she turns her
glowing orbs on him. George
Sanders is a smoothly villainous
Adonijar. But the best work
is done by Finlay Currie as the
dying, still-majestic David,.and
by Harry Andrews as Sheba’s
shrewd Minister.
At Sydney Paris.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sapphire”
In this well-knit British
crime-drama a girl'is murdered
and her body dumped on
Hampstead Heath. The Scot-
land Yard inspector assigned to
the case is faced with a multi-
plicity of motives and suspects,
and how he goes about
whittling them down to one of
each makes a moderately
exciting spot of observation-
and-deduction. For a who-
dunit, the character-drawing is
uncommonly sharp.
Nigel Patrick brings shrewd
eyes, a rapier tongue and a
quiet air to dissemble his
tenacity in the role of the chief
detective, and Bernard Miles
does a neat job as the head
of a family of four, all of
whom come under the Yard’s
suspicions.
At Sydney Embassy.
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Hangman”
Robert Taylor, U.S. deputy-
marshal, ferrets-out that the
wanted bandit he is pursuing
has become a respected and
even well-loved citizen in a
western town, and that his
efforts to prise him apart
from his new-won respect-
ability are viewed dimly by the
tough cits. Even the baddie’s
ex-girl won’t peach on him,
though he once did the dirty
on her.
Taylor falls back on his
customary air of tight-lipped
sternness for his effects, and
Tina Louise is the spirited
damsel.
At Sydney Prince Edward.


Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Titt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BWI77I—BW 8088
Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdale”
PATRICK & COMPANY
Sydney.
K. H. ALLEN
P. R. LEVY
M. R. L. ROWLING
A. I\ REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911.
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
North Broken Hill, Ltd.
Tn spite of an appreciable drop in the
average realised price of lead (by
£7 9s. Bd. a ton to £B4 3s. sd. a ton) the
financial results for the year ended June
30, 1959, were considerably better than
in the previous term.
Adverse conditions continued in the
world lead and zinc market; zinc
firmed a little, by £4 3s. 9d. to £9l 17s.
3d. a ton, while 1958-59 average lead
prices dropped by £7 9s. Bcl. (all figures
in Australian currency).
For the first quarter of the current
financial year the co. has realised £B7
16s. 3d. for lead and £lOl os. 6d. for
zinc:
Year to Lead* Zincf Silver
June 30, (Ton). (Ton). (Oz.).
1957 .. £l3l 9 2 £llB 9 3 Bs. 1.5 d.
1958 .. 91 13 1 87 13 6 7s. 11. Id.
1959 . . 84 3 5 91 17 3 7e. 10.8 d.
* F.a.s. Port Pirie, S.A. f F.o.b. Risdon, Tasmania.
The position on the lead and zinc
market remains serious, because the
world production of these metals has
been running ahead of industrial demand
ever since the post-war reconstruction
boom fizzled-out in 1949. World prices
were then supported by strategic stock-
piling by U.S. and U.K. Governments.
This had sometimes, in fact, stimulated
output. After the accumulation of metal
reserves by the two Governments was
discontinued early in 1957 the market
situation at once became grave, gradu-
ally worsening.
In November, 1958, the U.N. spon-
sored a futile trade conference of lead-
and zinc-exporters. Another, this time
more successful, meeting took place last
April. The leading producers agreed to
limit the supply of both metals. Aus-
tralia was a party to this agreement, and
sales by Broken Hill Associated Smelters
continue to be limited in accordance
with it.
This action, coupled with improved
consumption stimulated by increased
industrial activity, has produced some
beneficial effect on the market, especially
for zinc. However, the metal contri-
buting most to North's revenue is lead,
which is much less costly to treat and
refine than zinc.
Early in 1959 North, together with
neighboring producers, reduced working-
time by 10 p.c. This policy was con-
tinued in accordance with the agreement
restricting output.
Ore mined totalled 363,500 tons (down
18,772 tons), 315,146 tons being won
from the North section and 48,354 tons
from the British-Junction section. Ore
reserves are put at 4,344,000 tons (down
244,000 tons).
There was an improvement in the lead
content of total ore mined—to 14.5 p.c.,
compared with 13.7 p.c. for the previous
year.
Ore treated amounted to 362,651 tons
(down 17,445 tons) The output of lead
concentrate was down 1110 tons at
70,179 tons. Production of zinc con-
centrates was down 255 tons at 73,786
tons. On the whole, the assays showed
a slight improvement:
r~ Assa y
Lead, Silver, Zinc,
Lead— Tons. p.c. Oz. p.c.
1957 .. .. 69,311 71.0 36.2 5.1
1958 . .. 71,289 70.6 34.6 5.6
1959 .. .. 76,179. 72.4 34.7 5.1
Zinc —
1957 .. .. 74,326 6.9 1.5 51.2
1958 .. .. 74,641 0.9 1.3 50.9
1959 .. .. 73,786 0.8 1.15 51.0
Revenue from mine-products increased
by £192,268 to £4,170,459, and was
augmented by £602,809 income from
investments. Further reductions in the
work-force (down by 162 men to 1348
employees) and stringent economies
succeeded in cutting mine-costs by
£650,168 to £3,322,217. However, the
improvement in mine-earnings brought
back the tax (£197,375). and royalties
(£28,000), from which the co. was free
in the previous year. Depreciation re-
mained steady at £25,000 and tax on
income from investments was down
£11,375 at £3625. Administration ex-
penses absorbed £81,252.
Net profit at £1,115,799 jumped by
£602,972 compared with the lean previous
income-period:
Revenue— 1957. 1958. 1959.
Mine products.. £7,257,928 £3,978,191 £4,170,459
Investments . . 642,037 624,225 602,809
£7,899,965 £4,602,416 £4,773,268
Expenditure—
Mine .. . . 4,524,441 3,972,385 3,322,217
P. and 1. items. . 1,255,628 117,204 335,252
£5,780,009 £4,089,589 £3,657,469
Net profit - ..£2,119,896 £512,827 £1,115,799
Dividends paid during the past year
totalled £700,000 (100 p.c.), against
£1,120,000 (160 p.c.) in the preceding
year, and a distribution of £420,000
(60 p.c.) was paid on December 2.
These dividends are not necessarily from
profits made in the year of distribution.
Recently North’s board announced a
scheme to bring the capital-structure
more into line with the company’s worth
(see B. 9/12/’59).
In addition to its mine, North’s
balance-sheet at June 30, 1959, showed
listed shares with a book-value of
£1,612,457, yielding an income of
£222,411 for 1958-59. The market-value
was described in the annual report as
being “in excess of £6,000,000.” North
also holds unlisted shares (mainly B.H.
Associated Smelters, Metal Manufac-
turers, Ltd., Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Co., and Commonwealth Air-
craft Corporation) with a book-value of
£2,363,237. Last year North collected
£371,080 divs. from this source. Valuing
the unlisted stocks on a 5 p.c. basis
their true value comes close to £7,400,000.
On this basis the listed and unlisted
holdings are worth about £13.7 million,
compared to their total balance-sheet
value of £3,975,694.
After the closing of accounts North
reduced its interest in B.H. Associated
Smelters Pty. from 36.4 p.c. to 30 p.c.
by selling 96,576 20s. ords. to B.H.
South, for an undisclosed price.
During the year under review shares
were acquired in Adamaust Pty. (2208
f.-p. 205.), Consolidated Zinc (7229
f.-p. 20s. stg.), Mount Isa Mines (8800
f.-p. 55., in satisfaction of a tax-free
div.), Western Aluminium N.L. (250,000
20s. paid to Is. 6d.) and 100 20s. f.-p.
ords. in Timber Industries Pty.
Paid-up capital remained unchanged
at £700,000, and reserves were disclosed
at £9,989,514 (up £22,665), plus £370,000
appropriation for mine and development
(down £30,000):
1957. 1958. 1959.
Shares other cos. £3,709,699 £3,930,636 £3,975,694
Stores . . . . 300,822 294,082 251,361
Concentrates on
hand, etc. .. 1,185,816 1,110,319 1,420,493
Debtors. .. .. 247,052 497,736 332,066
Cash, etc 2,302,143 285,495 279,572
Liquid assets . . £7,805,532 £6,118,26S £6,259,186
Less liabilities*.. 3,112,445 1,678,118 1,668,227
Liquid surplus. . £4,G93,087 £4,440,150 £4,590,959
* Includes provision for taxation, final divs,, etc.
Stocks of concentrates on hand, etc., in-
creased by £320,174, due to decreased
sales and North’s policy of the mine
producing at full capacity within the
limits of the 10 p.c. reduction in work-
ing-time at Broken Hill. As a result, it
is expected that this year’s output of
lead concentrates will again exceed its
proportion of the B.H. Associated
Smelters sales of metal. Consequently,
a further increase in lead stocks is
anticipated.
Total liquid surplus was £150,809
higher at L 4,590,959. Net tangible assets-
backing (on book-values) worked out at
just under 795. for a ss. share.
Last October a new refinery for treat-
ment of lead-bullion was completed at
Port -Pirie (S.A.), with a modern layout
which should enable substantial
economies.
At the co.’s Coal Cliff Colliery
(N.S.W.) the development and mechanisa-
tion programme was substantially com-
pleted. The Bulletin visited the coal-
mine recently and was favorably im-
pressed by its efficient operation. During
the year a contract was signed for the


A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. F. NEVITT;\A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Fife Building:,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 312761 (4 Fines) P.O. Box No. 1387 W
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
113 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. BE 5771-2-3
406 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. 67-5089, 67-5080
Cables ami Telegrams: “Ralphking” Sydney and Melbourne
Branches at Grafton and Armidale
sale of 1,250,000 tons of washed coal to
Japan over five years.
In spite of considerable difficulties,
the current term holds out a hope for
a higher surplus from operations. North
is now selling the whole of its zinc and
silver output.
There has been some improvement in
the limited lead sales to U.S.
Quoted at 138 s. 6d., the ss. ords. give
an immediate yield of about 4 p.c.
Blue Metal Industries, Ltd.
Tormed as a holding-co. in 1952, Blue
Metal Industries, Ltd., acquired the
share-capital of the then 31-year-old
N.S.W. Associated Blue Metal Quarries,
Ltd., the new parent co. exchanging
five ss. ords. for each £1 pref. in the
operating-co. and four ss. ords. for each
10s. ord. Since then, with the exception
of the year just completed, considerable
funds have been spent on plant, equip-
ment, etc. A vigorous programme of
modernisation and replacement has been
effected, and resultant rises in efficiency
have greatly enhanced the group's profit
potential.
Five years ago (in 1954) book-value of
fixed assets (including freeholds, lease-
holds, buildings, sidings, plant and
machinery, motor-vehicles, office furni-
ture and equipment, etc.) at cost or
valuation and prior to deduction of pro-
visions for depreciation and amortisation,
£938,023, was £1,885,366. Today the
relevant figures are fixed assets £3,518,047
(a visible increase of £1,632,681) and
provisions for depreciation and amortisa-
tion £1,748,000, leaving a net balance
£1,770,047.
The Blue Metal Industries group is
as follows:
N.S.W. Associated Blue Metal Quarries
Pty.
Sydney and Suburban Blue Metal
Quarries Pty.
Blue Metal Quarries Pty.
Federal Blue Metal Quarries Pty.
Peat’s Ridge Blue Metal Co. Pty.
Carson Bros. Pty.
(These cos. work quarries in various parts
of N.S.W. to produce blue-metal aggregate
and road-base .)
Nepean Sand and Gravel Co. Pty.
Quarries Pty.
(River gravel, crushed aggregate and sand
from deposits o-n the Nepean River.)
Mobile Plant Pty. (Haulage contractor.)
Transport Industries Pty. (Plant-
maintenance for group and outside
customers.)
Howard Engineering Pty. (Construction
and maintenance of heavy quarry-plant,
general engineering.)
Bituminous Pavements Pty. (Manufac-
turers of pre-mixed bituminous macadam,
road- and pavement-contractor.)
Prospect Equipment Pty. (Buying-agents
and suppliers of quarry equipment.)
Blue Metal and Gravel Pty. ( Selling-agent
for the metal- and gravel-cos.)
The group keeps much of the incidental
trade associated with quarrying and
roadmaking within its organisation.
Activities range .from production of blue-
metal aggregates and road - bases (of
these, the group is the largest producer
in N.S.W.) to the manufacture of pre-
mixed bituminous macadam and include
as well the operation of heavy quarry
plant, general engineering and the pro-
duction of river-gravel and sand.
Blue Metal Industries has just com-
pleted another successful year —a year
spotlighted by efficient development of
its quarrying undertakings and ably
supported by its engineering, transport
and other service departments. Con-
solidated pre-tax profit surged forward
to a new high-water mark. At £695,124
(up £154,325) the previous year’s record,
£540,799, was completely submerged ;
this after setting aside £317,052 (down
£5324) for depreciation. Tax provision,
£275,212 (up £66,808), left net profit up
£87,517 at £419,912 and equivalent to an
earning-rate on capital of 26.5 p.c., as
against 20.9, 22.6 (on average capital),
24.9 and 18.4 p.c. back to 1955:
Parent axd Subsidiary.
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. ( —‘—Dividends serves. serves.*
£ p.c. £ £ £
1955 .. 218,806 10 = 118.726 100,080 47,780
1956 .. 295,736 10 = 118,726 177,010 224,790
Tax underprovided, £3284 .. .. 221,506
To prov. 1.-s. leave, £22,885 . . 198,621
Share-issue expenses, £1675 .. .. 196,946
Added subsidiary reserve, £2500 . . 199.444
1957 .. 313,957 io = 138,514 175,443 374,889
1958 . . 332,395 10 = 158,302 174,093 548,982
1959 .. 419,912 197,878 222,034 771,016
* After deducting intangibles.
Capital-expenditure easing-off, the way
was paved for an increase of the
div.-rate, at the same time enabling
massive addition to mounting reserves.
Divs. were lifted-from 10 to 124 p.c.
and took £197,878. Reserves benefited
by £222,034.
Balance-sheet figures stand tribute to
sound financial structure. As mentioned
earlier, the book-value of fixed assets
was £1,770,047 (down £8360), and, if
productivity is any guide, these assets
were fully utilised. Liquidity improved
and theoretical working-capital swelled
to £670,220 (up £237,794). Investment in
stock rose to £522,597 (up £65,092).
Debtors dropped £31,243 to £581,184.
Creditors and tax provision were both
up, the one at £395,768 (up £45,533), the
other at £294,154 (up £68,231). The most
significant movement, however, was in
cash, bonds, etc., w'hich as an asaregate
jumped £337,497 to £355,300: “
Oox.-oi.[Dated Balance-sheet.
1957. 1958. 1959.
Paid capital . . £1,583,016 £1,583,0T6 £1,583,016
Reserves .. .. 776,720 950,813 1.172,847
Outside interests. . 80,318 80,566 87,680
Overdraft .. 129,987
Creditors, etc. .. 326,320 350,235 395,768
Tax provision .. 237,215 225,923 294,154
Final div. .. 79,151 79,151 98,939
£3,212,727 £3,269,704 £3,632,404
Fixed assets .. 1,873,488 1,778,360 1,770,047
Shares other cos... 1,334 1,778 1,445
Stock .. .. 429,315 457,50 a 522,597
Debtors, etc. .. 504,759 612,427 581,184
Cash, bonds .. 2,000 17,803 355,300
Intangibles .. 401,831 401,831 401,831
£3,212,727 £3,269,704 £3,632,404
Latest development contemplated by
the group involves the soon-to-be-
acquired Carson Bros. Pty. This co. has
been associated with Blue Metal since
1936, and is a substantial shareholder
in several of the subsidiaries. The take-
over, when effected, will further con-
solidate the group’s holdings and its
shareholdings in associated trading cos.
The basis of consideration will be the
issue by a subsidiary of £50,000 in 10 p.c.
notes and the issue of 100,000 fully paid
Blue Metal ss. shares.
Blue Metal continues to investigate
every opportunity for expansion. Growth
prospects are bright, and expanding
profits, spurred on by energetic director-
ship, have not failed to impress investors.
Most recent bid for the co.’s ss. ords.
was 205.; and at this price yield from
a 124 p.c. div. is only 3.1 p.c., putting
the co. into the “glamor”-stock class.
Last capital-move took place in 1956-57,
when 1,583,016 shares were offered to
shareholders at par, one-for-three. Net
tangible backing is visibly 7s. sd.
G. P. Fitzgerald and Co., Ltd.
THE original retail-store business of
■*- G. P. Fitzgerald and Co. Pty. was
established in Hobart (Tas.) in 1886.
In October, 1955, the old family show
was converted to a public co. with paid-
up capital of £300,000 (in 10s. ords.). Of
this, £240,000 was released for public
subscription. No new share-capital has
been brought-in to date, but last year
the co. revalued its freehold property,
writing it up by £lOO,OOO. This action
was said to have been taken to “safe-
guard the interests of shareholders and
to inform them of the current value of
this major asset.”
During the four years 1955-56 to
1958-59 net profits edged-up from
£38,885 to £50,939, averaging £45,704,
or 15.2 p.c. p.a. on the unchanged share-
capital.
Both sales and customer transactions
last term were higher than in the previous
year, but the extra profit-margin was
partially offset by rising costs.
Trading-profit for the year ended
August 31, 1959, was £491 higher at
£81,939 after deducting all charges and
expenses, including directors’ fees £BOO
and depreciation £11.308 (up £4492).
Tax absorbed £31,000 (down £1000),
leaving net profit at £50,939 (up £1491),
or almost 17 p.c. on paid capital:
To Ru- Re-
Aug. Profit. (— —Dividends —— N serves, serves.-
31. £ £ £ £
1956 .. 38,885 7.29 p.c. = 21,600 17,285 136,536
Tax overprovided, £2471 .. .. 139,307
1957 .. 43,544 9 p.c. = 27,000 16,544 155,801
Tax overprovided, £2293 .. .. 158,144
Goodwill written-off, £5OOO .. .. 153,144
1958 .. 49,448 10 p.c. = 30,000 19,448 172,592
Tax overprovided, £2462 .. .. 175,054
Goodwill written-off, £5OOO . . . . 170,054
Assets revaluation, £lOO,OOO .. .. 270,054
1959 . . 50,939 10 p.c. = 30,000 20,939 290,993
. * Subject to intangibles, written-off 31/8/’59.
Dividend was steady at 10 p.c. (£30,000)


*SB»
REGISTERED FIXED
DEPOSIT NOTES
High return and sound security! Your
money is invested in first mortgages
on homes, real estate and selected
hire purchase. Check the advantages:
10% for 3 years and over, 9% for 2 years,
Bi% for 1 year, 8% for 6 months, 6|%
on 14 days’ call.
Renewal Interest Rate gives added benefits.
Invest with the company, or through the
Brokers to the Company, Messrs. Ralph W.
King & Yuill, 113 Pitt Street, Sydney, or
through your own Broker.
Send for Application Forms and
latest Balance Sheet.
Park House,
15 Park Street,
Sydney
BM 6945
and reserves received £20,939. Reserves
also benefited by £2462 tax-overprovision
and £lOO,OOO assets-revaluation, but were
depleted by £5OOO final write-off of
goodwill.
The co. is ready to commence the
erection of a “.Shopping Mall,” connect-
ing its Elizabeth Street and Murray
Street stores in Hobart. It is expected
that the outlay will be about £60,000.
Recently Goodwill Food Hall Pty. was
acquired.
Apart from the assets-revaluation and
writing-off of goodwill, there was little
variation in the balance-sheet figures:—-
1957. 1958. 1959.
Paid capital .. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Reserves* .. .. 155,851 172,592 290,993
Mortgage .. .. 150,000 166,875 158,125
Notes . . .. 20,000 20,000 20,000
Loan . . . . 2,000 2,000 2,000
Staff fund .. 17,095 17,950 18,848
Sundry creditorst 147,087 205,012 217,798
Overdraft .. 64,449 16,976 17,395
Tax provision . . 29,471 32,000 31,000
Final dividend .. ' 19,500 22,500 22,500
£905,453 £955,905 £1,078,659
Land, buildings,
etc 500,016 531,042 640,153
Investments .. 27,820 32,184 36,862
Sundry debtors . . 144,145 139,932 156,647
Stock . . .. 220,544 246,874 238,650
Cash .. .. 1,428 1,173 6,347
Intangibles .. 11,500 5,000
£905,453 £955,905 £1,078,659
* Includes mortgage redemption fund,
t Includes shareholders’ deposits.
Creditors and shareholders’ deposits
increased by £12,786 to £217,798.
Sundry debtors were £17,015 higher at
£156,647 and cash increased by £5174.
Working-capital was much the same at
£112,951. Current ratio was 1.39 to 1.
Net tangible asset-backing was 19s. Bd..
per 10s. ord.
The current term was said to have
started well, with an encouraging in-
crease in turnover for September. How-
ever, competition remains brisk.
At the last sale in Hobart the 10s. ords.
changed hands at 14s. 9d., yielding 6.7
p.c. on the basis of the 10 p.c. div.-rate.
Kern Bros., Ltd.'
R. G. Kern set-up in Towns-
ville (Q.) in 1947, and the business
then grew into a modest family-partner-
ship of building-contractors. Expansion
began in 1954, when good contracts were
landed.
On June 28, 1956, the business was
converted into a public co. with a
nominal capital of £150,000. The new
Kern Bros., Ltd., took-over the old
family firm for a purchase consideration
of £25,070, satisfied by £5570 cash and
the allotment of £19,500 20s. f.-p. ords.
to the vendors.
Further shares to the value of £2502
were issued for cash. In April, 1957,
the public subscribed £40,000 in ords.,
lifting paid-up capital to the present
level of £62,002.
In 1956-57 Kern Bros, received several
large contracts, including one for laying
concrete foundations for a Mary Kath-
leen Uranium treatment-plant.
The average earning-rate over the past
two years has been 19.1 p.c. p.a. A
\2\ p.c. dividend was paid from the
beginning:
Re-
June Profit. —serves.
30, £ £ £
1957.. 10.630 124p.c.*= 3584 7,046
Preliminary expenses w/off,
£1950 .. .. .. 5,096
1958.. 11,914 12-J p.c. = 7,750 9,260
Preliminary expenses w/off,
£1949 7,311
1959.-11,862 121 p.c. := 7,750 11,423
*On 22,002 20s. ords. for 12 months,
and 40,000 20s. ords. for two months.
Net profit for the year ended June 30,
1959, was £11,862 (a shade over 19 p.c.
on the average share-capital). The result
was achieved after meeting all expenses,
including £4919 tax (down £3578) and
providing £6184 for depreciation (up
£1026).
Reserves received £4112, rising to
£11,423. Intangibles were written-off in
the first two years.
During last year Kern Bros, brought-in
£20,600 fixed-deposit notes. There were
£10,420 new liabilities under h.-p. con-
tracts, and creditors jumped up by
£59,002 to £93,186, plus the £7294 over-
draft :
1957. 1958. 1959.
Paid capital .. £62,002 £62,002 £62,002
Reserves .. .. 5,096 7,311 11,423
H. contracts .. 10,420
Notes . . .. 20,600
Sundry creditors .. 51,263 34,184 93,186
Overdraft .. .. -- 7,294
Tax provision .. 8,300 8,600 6,070
Final dividend .. 3,584 3,875 3,875
£130,245 £115,972 £213,870
Freeholds .. .. 16,850 27,510 28,803
Plant, etc. .. 24,385 26,302 53,100
Stocks and work-in-
progress . . 47,356 38,559 53,910
Book debts .. 11,812 17,116 69,725
Cash, etc. .. 27,893 6,485 8,332
Intangibles .. 1,949
£130,245 £115,972 £213,870
Book-value of plant was £26,798 higher
at £53,100. Stocks and work-in-progress
increased by £15,351. Book-debts rose
by £52,609 to £69,725. Working-capital
was £7041 higher at £22,542. Current
ratio worked out at 1.2 to 1.
The board believes any contingencies
or losses in work-in-progress have been
provided against, and that work in hand
will maintain a “very satisfactory profit-
rate in the future.”
The current term began well, with
about '£750,000 worth of contracts in
hand. The co. is in a confident mood
as the population and industrial growth
of N. Queensland continues. During
the period from December 31, 1954, to
December 31, 1958, Queensland’s total
estimated population rose by 102,066 to
I,
The financial position seems sound
enough, although the div.-rate policy may


Divorce Notice
]N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO EDWARD JOHN DAVEY late of
Abermain.—TAKE NOTICE that BETTY
MARGARET DAVEY has filed a Notice
in Suit No. 1301 of 1959 asking- for
-the exercise of the Court’s discretion
under Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matri-
monial Causes Act 1899-1958 AND
TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that if you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney within
14 days of this date. —CHARLES
GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 107-109 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney.— C. A. 11. HARMS,
Registrar.
v/“
ffte. Wcfalcf
*H,oi,e t/va+i
' " as v
the Pen
with the
Marvellous
QOLD
Nib!
{pnway 85 L 42/6.1.
Other Conway Models
29;6d. to 151-
the finest Pens -
the Greatest Value
CONWAY STEWART & CO. LTD. LONDON
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting: Machines.
George Ellison Switch Gear,
f t„ Makers of Classifiers,
Water Eilters, Steam Valves,
etc
INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant
supervision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Est. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY - 27-3444
108 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - MU 4081
appear a bit generous in the
light of the co.’s earning-power
and the need to build-up
reserves. Contracting is a
chancy game, although thus far
building-contractors have had
little cause to complain.
Over the first three years
the co. appears to have estab-
lished itself in the Townsville
area. Growth prospects look
reasonable.
The 20s. ords. were last
quoted in Brisbane at 295. 6d.
each, yielding 8.5 p.c. on the
basis of a continued \2\ p.c.
div.-rate. The 20s. f.-p. shares
were each backed by 235. Bd.
of net tangible assets.
Tableland Tin Dredging
HThe Australian tin industry
A was struggling during the
last year, much the same as it
did in the previous term. In
September, 1958, the world tin
price dropped to £BO5 a ton as
the market staggered under the
Soviet Union’s dumping-camp-
aign.
Since then the situation fras
improved ; the U.S.S.R. discon-
tinued its dumping policy and
even showed some signs of
playing the game according to
accepted international rules. By
June 30, 1959, tin prices
reached £9BB a ton (up £75 a
ton for the year).
The higher price and a
larger volume of ore treated
during the year ended June 30,
1959 (up 738,405 tons), com-
bined to help along Tableland
Tin (operating at Mt. Garnet,
Q.) to better financial results: —-
June, Income. Exes. Profit. Divs.*
£ £ £ £
W/off dredge acct., £30,000 8 p.c.
1955.. 703 314,233 74,470 35,200
W/oft' dredge acct., £50,000 13 p.c.
1956.. 340,042 133,510 57,200
Royalties overprovided,
£65)84 .. ..
Loss.
1957.. 331,971 360,977 29,006
Profit.
1958.. 303,778 .60,052 12,800
1959.. 340,261 86,601 35,199
* Rate shown is for ords., but amount
also includes divs. paid on 8 p.c. cum.
participating prefs. and deferreds.
Tin sales were £62,722 higher
at £424,476. Interest (£1564)
and rents and “sundry income”
(£822) improved the showing
to a £426,862 gross profit.
Expenses were £36,483 higher
at £340,261 (including £26,000
tax and £3047 depreciation),
leaving £86,601 net profit (up
£26,549).
The co. paid-out £35,199 (up
£22,399) in divs. on prefs., ords.
and deferreds. The divs., two-
thirds of which were taken-out
from tax - exempt profits
reserve (down to £2100), were
described as 8 p.c. interims, but
there is no indication of a
further pay-out for the year.
The balance-sheet showed
few changes. Liquidity
improved a little, with current
assets up £40,221 at £193,295,
mainly due to cash being
£40,551 higher at £123,098.
Working-capital was £44,862
andthe current ratio 1.3 to 1:
Balance-sheet.
1958. 1959.
Paid capital—
Pref £80,600 £BO,OOO
Ord. and deferred 246,000 t 246,000
Reserves . . . . 338,960 390,266
Sundry creditors. . 28,023 42,433
Overdraft . . 130,000 ~ 80,000
Tax provision . . 26,000
£822,983 £804,699
Mine, plant, etc... 577,666 579,161
Shares, etc. .. 1,666 1,666
Stocks . . . . 51,874 51,598
Sundry debtors . . 18,653 x, 9,965
Trust a/c.. .. 8,634
Cash, bonds etc... 82,547 123,09 S
Intangibles . . 90,577 90,577
£822,983 £864,699
The co.’s State-guaranteed
loan was reduced by £50,000 to
£BO,OOO, with another £30,000
payment dilie this month.
Technical results compared
favorably with 1958, except in
the ore-yield and average assay,
which dropped slightly:
1958. 1959.
Cub. yards treated 3,219,898 3,958,303
Hours worked . . 7,403 7,582
Area dredged
(acres) . . . . 32.826 46.19
Ore recovered
(tons) .. - 629.35 706
Average assay (p.c.) 71.31 70.52
Ore - yield cubic
yards (oz.) . . 7.01 6.39
Costs cubic yard
(pence) . . 20.268 19.054
Costs per cubic yd. dropped
encouragingly by 1.214 d. to
19.054 d. The dredge operated
continuously during the year.
In spite of the considerable
increases in domestic tin-plate
output, the industry’s position
remains precarious. Australian
tin-dredging costs are said to
be 100 p.c. higher than in
Malaya. Most of the world’s
tin is produced in cheap-labor
countries, and domestic
investors see little profit-possi-
bilities at present low and
unstable world prices.
Paid capital is £326,000, in
240,000 20s. ords., 6000 Is.
deferreds and 80,000 20s. 8 p.c.
prefs. Net tangible assets-
backing worked out at £7 16s.
sd. for the prefs. and at
£2 ss. 6d. for the ords., includ-
ing mine, plant, etc. Sellers
ask 12s. for the ords.


MANUFACTURERS (N.S.W.) FINANCE CO.
INDEPENDENTLY GUARANTEED INVESTMENT
FIXED DEPOSIT NOTES EARN
10
10% for 3 years
9% for 2 years
8% for 1 year
BASED ON THE SECURITY OF
CAREFULLY SELECTED REAL
ESTATE INVESTMENTS.
A
1
j
The repayment of principal and
interest is INDEPENDENTLY
GUARAN FEED by an Indem-
nity Co. that issues a policy to
each depositor.
Interest is paid quarterly. The
original sum deposited is returned
in full at the end of the term
nominated. The depositor has
the right of withdrawal of capital
in an EMERGENCY.
MANUFACTURERS (N.S.W.)
FINANCE CO.
2nd Floor, Northern
House, 13/15 O’Con-
nell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BW 2601
(10 lines).
Mail this
coupon for
full details
Ml 19
To: Manufacturers (N.S.W.) Finance
Co., Box 4790, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
B 16/12
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Wellington, December 8, 1959.
T abor will have a hard fight
to regain popularity in
time to win the elections next
year. Most people think it
will be impossible.
The electors gave a plain
hint of how they are feeling
in the recent municipal polls.
A strong swing against Labor
was apparent in voting
throughout the country. Many
Labor councillors were swept
out of office.
Finance Minister Nordmeyer
undoubtedly has more tax-
reductions up his sleeve, but it
won’t be so easy to win favor
this time as it was last.
Short though the public’s
memory is, it hasn’t forgotten
the “tax-rebate” fiasco, and
the National party can be de-
pended upon to keep rubbing
it in.
Better Overseas Markets
News from N.Z.’s overseas
primary-produce markets is
mainly good, and it is hoped
that income from export sales
may this year reach the £3OO-
- mark for the first time.
Wool sales are going off
well. Compared with last
year, prices of medium cross-
breds are 35 to 40 per cent,
up, and prices of medium half-
breds 18 to 20 per cent. up.
The outlook remains bright.
Butter, which a year or two
ago was selling in Britain at
well below cost of production,
has recently reached a new
record high price. The worry
now is that the price is too
high, and may turn consumers
to margarine.
• Meat has been the weak
spot, but latest indications are
that results will not be so bad
as had been feared earlier.
Good clearance of stocks, with
the prospect of shorter supply
in the early part of 1960 than
had been expected, has
strengthened the United King-
dom lamb-market.
Healthy overseas markets
have given grounds for an im-
proved business outlook in
N.Z. over the last quarter, the
Bank of N.S.W. says.
The rise in disposable
incomes as a result of the
moderate reduction in per-
sonal taxation which became
effective in October was supple-
mented by a general wage-
order which added 5.1 per cent,
to award wages, giving
increases up to a maximum of
15s. 7d. a week to adult male
workers.
These factors, together with
the expectation of a recovery
in farm-development expendi-
ture and of a rise in State works
spending, have evoked a degree
of confidence which even three
months ago seemed unlikely to
emerge before the new year.
As yet, these shifts have
shown little inflationary im-
pact, though the Government
will probably have a cash
deficit for the year.
Farm Income
N.Z.’s gross farm income
for 1958-59 showed a decrease
for the second year in suc-
cession, according to pro-
visional figures issued by the
Department of Statistics. It
was reduced by 4.5 per cent, to
£283.7 million, compared with
a decline of 3.4 per cent, in
the previous year.
The income of the agricul-
tural group increased by 7 per
cent, to £27.8 million, but this
was more than offset by de-
creases of 3 per cent, to £164
million in the pastoral group
and of 10 per cent, to £92
million in the dairying, poultry
and bees group.
With record wool produc-
tion and lamb killings, there
was an increase in the volume
of production for the pastoral
group, but this was more than
offset by lower prices.
Butterfat production showed
practically no movement during
the year, so that the fall in
guaranteed prices for dairy
products was fully reflected in
the dairying group.
The expansion of wheat-
growing caused a rise in both
value and volume in the agri-
cultural group.
The index-number of the
volume of production of all
farming groups showed an in-
crease of 5 per cent. Agricul-
tural output rose by 5 per cent,
and that of the pastoral group
increased by 9 per cent. Pro-
duction by the dairying,
poultry and bees group de-
clined by 1 per cent.
Company Results
N.Z. company-incomes in-
creased substantially in 1958-59.
Net incomes of companies
were £124.5 million, compared
with £117.4 million in the pre-
vious year and £llO million in
1956- The estimated num-
ber of companies conducting
business rose from 31,000 in
1957- to 33,300 in the latest
year, the increase of 2300 being
slightly smaller than that of
2700 during 1957-58.
Companies engaged in con-
struction were the only group
which had smaller net incomes
in 1958-59, having fallen from
£5.8 million to £5.6 million.
In the three largest industry
groups incomes from manu-
facturing rose from £39 million
to £41.3 million, incomes from
wholesale and retail trades
from £43.2 million to £46 mil-
lion, and incomes from other
commerce including banks,
insurance companies and hold-
ing-companies, from £16.9
million to £18.5 million.
Mining Developments
New uranium discoveries
have been made in the lower
Buller Gorge on N.Z.’s West
Coast.
Prospectors employed by
Lime and Marble, Ltd., work-
ing on the southern slopes of
the Buller Valley about 1000 ft.
from Hawkes Crag, have dis-
covered fairly extensive out-
crops of radioactive rocks in
three seams.
In one locality specimens of
a very highly radioactive
mineral have been found,
thought to be pitchblende.
Officials of Australia’s Con-
solidated Zinc Pty., Ltd., who
have been investigating the
possibility of using South
Island lakes to produce elec-
tric power for a £lOO,OOO
aluminium industry, recently
reported progress to the Prime
Minister, Mr. Nash.
It is understood that it may
be some time before the Gov-
ernment is ready to sign an
agreement with the company
for a full investigation of the
scheme.
Hopes of an overseas coal-
market for N.Z. have faded.
“We may get two or three
shipments a year, but that is
about all,” said the Under
Secretary of Mines. Unless a
contract for 20 years was
drawn-up it would not be
worth while spending money in
developing the Paparoa State
Mine, or in improving Grey-
mouth harbor facilities. At
the most the Japanese would
take coal for a period of two
years only and till a longer
term was guaranteed it could
be forgotten.


Memoirs of a
Pioneer Pressman
(Abridged from a book to be published later)
SOME SECRET
NEWSPAPER HISTORY
By B. S. BAXTER COOK
(Founder of the Australian Journalists’ Association and No. 1 A.J.A. Gold Medallist)
President in 1908 of the
Melbourne Press Bond
(a forerunner of the
Austra 1i a n Journalists’
Association), J. E. Davidson
rose rapidly through the
ranks in the course of about
five years to the editorship of
the Melbourne “Herald,” but
resigned after protesting in
vain against interference by
one of the directors, Theodore
Fink.
Seeking “pastures new,”
Davidson and his warm per-
sonal friend Gerald Mussen
(later Sir Gerald, but at that
time in business as an indus-
trial consultant in Collins
House) , then surveyed the
Australian newspaper world,
and came to the conclusion
that there was room in
Adelaide for an evening paper.
All the City of Churches had
in the evening-newspaper field
was a dull afternoon edition
of the “Advertiser.” This was
usually a four-page broadsheet
containing a rehash of the news
already published in the morn-
ing, but giving the finish of
news-stories which had been
too late for the morning issue.
Davidson went to Adelaide,
to test the reaction of business
people and the general public
to the proposition. Having
discussed the project with
potential advertisers and with
such leading citizens as he
Could safely contact with as
little risk as possible of arous-
ing the “Advertiser” and the
“Register” to some forestalling
action, he returned to Mel-
bourne to inform Mussen that
the scheme had a good chance
of succeeding. Both Davidson
and Mussen then went to
Adelaide.
There, by chance encounter
at the South Australian Hotel,
they met an old press friend,
Harry B. Manderson, who had
many big business connections.
“Mandy,” said Mussen,
“excuse us entering your pre-
serve here, but we're going to
start an evening paper. Who’s
the best man to see as prospec-
tive chairman?”
“A. E, Allnutt,” Mandy at
once replied.
Allnutt was then chairman
of a big company formed by
Manderson. Introductions fol-
lowed, and the stage was set.
The next thing they did was
to look around Adelaide for a
suitable site for the new paper’s
home. A vacant allotment on
North Terrace attracted their
attention, but it had no board
indicating owner or agent.
They inquired at an adjacent
butcher’s shop, “Who owns
that piece of land?”
“Why, we do,” said an
ancient - looking shopman.
“We’ve owned it from the
beginning of Adelaide.”
“Who’s we?” said Mussen.
“Why, the firm —the direc-
tors —the family,” said the
butcher.
Asking where they could be
contacted, Mussen was in-
formed that they were meet-
ing upstairs at that very
moment.
Mussen and Davidson, suc-
cessfully dodging a succulent-
looking pig-carcass at the rear
of the shop, made their way up
an old flight of narrow saw-
dust-strewn stairs to the next
floor, and knocked.
The door was opened by a
white-whiskered old gent, who
said, “We’re having a meet-
ing. What do you want?”
Three other ancients sitting
at a table looked up inquir-
ingly. Mussen startled them
by bluntly announcing, “I
want to buy that block at the
back of this shop in North
Terrace.”
“Good heavens,” said the
spokesman for the firm, “we
decided only half-a-minute
ago to sell it! How did you
know? Who are you, any-
way?”
“We are starting an evening
newspaper in Adelaide —Mr.
Allnutt’s behind it!”
“Oh, Ernest Allnutt, we all
know him. Come inside.”
After further negotiations,
the deal was clinched by a
deposit of £lOOO.
Intensive work to raise the
necessary capital was immedi-
ately entered upon, advertis-
ing contracts were arranged,
and in ; a very short while the
“Evening News,” under the
editorship of Davidson, was
born. This was in 1922. It
has been a good profit-earner
for many years.
HUMORISTS
When I returned to Mel-
bourne after the
failure of the indus-
trial-betterment plan
at Broken Hill I became
interested, as a director, in a
A Fighting Editor-J. E.
Davidson, as Low (and
the author) knew him.
small company formed to
market a special toothpaste
from a formula prepared by
Dr. Charles Allen, a well-
known and respected dentist
of Collins Street, Melbourne.
It was called “Sanos.”
It was suggested to me that
as I had a wide circle of per-
sonal friends engaged on the
daily press it would be a good
move to get their candid
opinions on the product. I
therefore had samples sent to
as many members of the Aus-
tralian Journalists’ Association
as I could think of.
For some reason my press
colleagues refused to take the
campaign seriously. -The idea
of my peddling a toothpaste
was too tempting a theme for
the exercise of their wit, and
a deluge of rejuvenating banter
and refreshing sarcasm fell on
me for, it seemed, forty days
and forty nights.
E. J. Brady sent a breezy
note from Mallacoota in
Eastern Gippsland:
“You can send any damn’
commercial commodity free to
this joint and we will not pull
a gun on you. If your tube is
accompanied by a case of
Dewar’s Whisky or Lindeman’s
Claret, the experts of the
establishment will probably be
prejudiced in its favor.”
“L.J.W.” took both a bright
and gloomy view of the
proposition:
“Received your glad tidings
today,” he wrote. “Immedi-
ately rang-up the wife and told
her to order a gross. Then
sent an express messenger to
my solicitor —thought I had
better make my will.”
“F.J.W.” was cautious.
Plainly he did not like being
switched-off his “gargle,” but
for the sake of old friendship
he decided to sacrifice him-
self :
“Re your snoshter tooth-
paste —am getting old, and my
opinions are hard to change,”
he wrote. “Hitherto my denti-
frice has been the salicylic acid


This Christmas...
you can open your doors wide
to an old friend
DEWAR'S
'White
Label’
COTCH is WHISK
White Label'
L>t a *rs Fine Scotch Whiskc
J obn Dewar & Sons L-
DISTILLERS
Jeakvi
V
Yours to enjoy, and enjoy giving, over
the festive season: Dewar’s White
Label" Scotch Whisky in this colourful
new carton. There’s no doubt: "Scotch
is the drink . . . and Dewar’s is the
Scotch." It never varies.
contained in beer, and I esti-
mate it would take 65 tubes of
your paste to permit of my
forming a judgment on its
merits. Pack safely and send
to above address. I shall try
the experiment. Good luck!”
Strong .paternal affection
was shown by “1.P.8.”:
“I should be pleased to re-
ceive a tube,” he said. “Already
my father is a firm believer in
the paste, and he still seems
healthy and happy.”
One who forgot to sign his
name wrote:
“Replying to yours of yester-
day’s date, 1 may say that per-
sonally 1 never use the animal,
having but few left of the
ivories that Nature originally
provided me with. Conse-
quently my mainstay is soap,
pure and unadulterated. But
will it clean boots? If so, Ha!
I’m your Moses!”
I am not very sure whether
“H.W.T.” intended this to be
a compliment or not:
“I gave the ivories a brush
with it and have had no occa-
sion to use a dentifrice since.
P.S. The youngster consumed
the balance —a striking tri-
bute.”
“P.J.8.” delved into superla-
tives and poetry:
“The only misgivings I
have,” he said, “is that the
polish it puts on my teeth may
make me look too dandified.
I have noted lately that some
of my serious-minded col-
leagues have taken to smiling,
thus flashing pearly teeth, and
I can only ascribe this to the
fact that you have been bring-
ing them also into the fold. It
is all very well for Oliver
Wendell Holmes to say that
‘for him in vain all the envious
seasons roll, who bears eternal
Summer in his soul,’ but we
are living when externa! show
counts more than internal
equipment.”
“E.D.” optimistically looked
forward to the desire of his
inmost soul being fulfilled. He
delivered himself thus:
“I have been on a lifelong
pilgrimage in quest of the per-
fect paste —the genuine paste,
so to speak. Send along a
tube (or is it a tub?).”
“A.N.A.” modestly declined
to be taken at his own face-
value :
“I have no teeth myself, but
if you will send sample of
your concoction to above
address I will introduce it to
the family.”
The tribute of “R.S.” seemed
to be reminiscent of the tramp’s
testimony in a famous soap
advertisement:
“I’ve grown jealous of the
beautiful ivories of Watson,
Waters, Whitehead and other
dead-head patrons of your
famous toothpaste, and if
there’s a sample tube left I
would appreciate the privilege
of trying it—since when I
shall use no other.”
Great Christian fortitude is
reflected in the letter from
“G.E.D.”:
“To please a friend,” he
wrote, “I shall be glad to use
free samples of your paste
until my last tooth is
destroyed.”
Could friendship go further?
A GREAT INDUSTRIALIST
Gerald Mussen (later Sir
Gerald) has figured
several times already in
these memoirs, because
our careers seemed to inter-
twine from the time I first met
him in 1901. He is now in
complete retirement, and may
never know what an old pal
thought of him.
Mussen never sought the
limelight. He was one of the
class of capable citizens—not
by any means inconsiderable—
whose real worth to the com-
munity is known only to a
restricted circle of people. He
fought his way to the top the
hard way. No project was too
formidable for him to tackle
if the realisation meant profit-
able "progress, not primarily
for himself, but for the public
at large. Of his memorable
achievements, one of the
greatest was the establishment
of the paper-pulp industry in
Tasmania.
Born in New Zealand,
Mussen came to Australia as
a young man. Attracted to the
Coolgardie goldfields, he went
direct to Western Australia in
1897 to take part in the process
of gold-recovery known as
“dry-blowing.”
He did not make a fortune.
He was laid low by the pre-
vailing epidemic of typhoid
fever, and it says much for his
stamina that he was the only
patient on his side of the hos-
pital ward who survived. This
illness left him so weak that
he could only get about on
crutches. That finished his
prospects of a bright future
from “dry-blowing.”
His leaning was toward
press-work, but there did not
seem to be a suitable job
offering. He was given to
understand, however, that his
prospects would be brighter if
he were able to write short-
hand. His inquiries led him to
believe that there was a boom
in shorthand-teaching.
Mussen subsequently made


his way to Sydney. He got
hold of the textbooks. Always
original in his approach to
any subject, he decided that
one of the best and cheapest
ways to learn a subject was to
begin to teach it to others,
always keeping a jump ahead.
It proved quite a successful
scheme.
This was about the time
(1899) of the war in South
Africa between the British and
the Boers. Australia was pre-
paring to send a contingent.
Mussen thought it was oppor-
tune to tell the public how war-
fare was conducted, this being
the period when the long and
peaceful reign of Queen Vic-
toria was coming to its end
and the public was not at all
war-minded. As a freelance
journalist, he wrote several
very learned articles on war-
tactics for the Sydney “Daily
Telegraph,” and was compli-
mented by some of the military
officers.
Payment, even at the low
rate of a penny a line, was
much more remunerative than
“dry-blowing,” but the day
came when the proprietor de-
cided that Mussen was making
too much money, and that it
would be cheaper to take him
on to the permanent staff.
Mussen afterwards laughingly
confessed that, far from being
a naval or military expert, he
had gleaned most of his infor-
mation from The International
Code of Warfare, produced by
the Geneva Convention. A
copy of this work was actually
in the archives of Sydney mili-
tary barracks, practically
neglected. Mussen borrowed
it, rewrote the information
and applied it to the condi-
tions in South Africa.
Married in 1900, Mussen
came to Melbourne with his
wife a year later, as representa-
tive of the Sydney “Daily
Telegraph.” F6r seven years
he was on the inside of most
of the big Federal political
“scoops” of those exciting
days.
TGaturally financially
' minded, Mussen then be-
came associated (in 1908) with
the firm headed by W. L.
Baillieu in Collins House,
Melbourne, and for two years
had the overseeing of the
firm’s widespread investments.
With his wife and three
children he went to London
as representative of the
Baillieus and conducted several
important financial missions,
both in Great Britain and on
the Continent.
One project was to develop
the brown-coal resources of
Victoria. Two famous Ger-
man experts were brought to
Australia. They selected Yal-
lourn and laid-out the complete
scheme. But the engineer then
advising the Victorian Rail-
ways Department on the pro-
posed electrification of the
railways was dead against the
use of brown coal. The
scheme collapsed, only to be
revised later by others and
brought to its present enorm-
ously successful development.
Back from London after a
few years the enterprising
young Mussen, whom nothing
daunted, whether he knew any-
Sir Henry Jones: he
offered to find “three-
quarters of a million.”
thing about the subject or not,
acquired an interest in the
ferry-service between Port
Melbourne and Williamstown.
It paid well until the Railways
Department improved the rail-
service to Williamstown.
Later the formation of a big
fish-canning enterprise at Port
Lincoln (S.A.) engaged his
attention. This cost him
many thousands of pounds',
but it achieved his object of
opening-up the possibility of
the establishment of a much-
needed canning-industry in that
locality. The Government of
South Australia assisted in
this, and others are now
carrying out the work he
pioneered.
He had many other business
interests. In literature he is
among the few who have been
honored by the invitation to
deliver the Fisher Lecture at
the Adelaide University. He
took for h : s subject “Humanis-
ing Industry.” He also de-
livered a notable address on
“The Family Spirit in Aus-
tralian Industry” to the mem-
bers of the Institute of Indus-
trial Management. Among his
other publications is a thought-
provoking book entitled Aus-
tralia’s Tomorrow.
Mussen always looked on
the bright side of things. One
day, when I called casually to
see him, he remarked: “I had
a chap in today who seemed to
have all the wrong ideas
about the relationship of capi-
tal and labor. I couldn’t con-
vince him so,” he laughingly
added, “I got rid of him by
presenting him with a copy of
one of my books. That should
keep him quiet for a bit.”
'T'owards the end of the First
World War Mussen, as a
member of the State War
Council, was instrumental in
starting a scheme called
“Anzac Work.” This was on
original lines. Each factory
and workshop employee was
asked to give an hour’s over-
time a day until it amounted to
a day’s work. The employer
was then to take-over the out-
put of the day’s work and
embody its value in a fund
for the soldiers when they
returned.
There was a splendid
response, 15,000 men being
enrolled ; but the Government
then stepped in with its own
scheme financed out of the
taxpayers’ money.
During this war-period
Mussen was industrial-consult-
ant to the Broken Hill Associ-
ated Smelters at Port Pirie
(S.A.). I have already related
how he maintained industrial
peace at a critical period. I
have also told what happened
with his attempt to humanise
industry at Broken Hill.
And then there was that
other great achievement of
his, the establishment of the
paper-pulp industry in Burnie,
Tasmania, which afterwards
gained for him his knight-
hood. His work in this con-
nection extended from 1924
to 1936, and success was
brought about only after many
grave setbacks in promised
financial support and conflict-
ing advice among tech-
nologists had been overcome.
The trouble was that no-
where in the world had paper
ever been manufactured from
hardwood eucalypts.
Mussen had become ac-
quainted, early in this century,
with A. K. McGaw, represen-
tative in Australia of the Van
Dieman’s Land Company,
which held British Crown
grants of hundreds of square-
miles of almost virgin forest-
country in the north-west of
Tasmania, with Burnie as a
port. At McGaw’s invitation,
Mussen, in 1908, visited portion
of the area and discussed with
him various developmental
schemes. Timber - marketing
was uppermost in their minds,
but in any further extension
of this branch of industry they
realised that increased compe-
tition with the hardwoods of
the mainland would have to be
faced.
For some time Mussen had
been turning over in his mind
the possibility of using Aus-
tralian hardwoods for paper-
making. The Tasmanian Gov-
ernment was enthusiastic, and
promptly brought to Australia
an American expert, Henry
Surface, to report on the sub-
ject. He took away samples
of eucalypt-trees, but was not
long in advising that it would
be impossible, “from an eco-
nomic point of view,” to make
paper from them.
Western Australia then came
into the picture. That State
possesses some of the best
building-timber in Australia,
but it was felt that it should
be put to better use. I. H.
Boas (later chief of the divi-
sion of forests-products of the
C.5.1.R.0.) carried out experi-
ments. These were held to
prove that, with suitable modi-
fications, excellent pulp could
be made economically from
various varieties of eucalypts.
Using a pilot-plant, Boas
manufactured enough pulp to
produce a small quantity of
paper. His report was actually
printed on the paper he had
made.
The stage seemed to be set,
but the finance —the many
hundreds of thousands of
pounds required—had yet to be
found. This was difficult, the
industry being an entirely new
one.
~IVT othing daunted, Mussen
studied paper-making from
all angles, and came to the
conclusion that, from the
start, one of the most import-
ant things to ensure subsequent
success was the geographical
position of the works.
He decided the most suit-
able site was at Burnie. It
had easy accessibility to
forests; a good water-supply
in the Emu River; a deep-
water port; the open sea for
the discharge of the objection-
able effluent; cheap electric-
power from the State hydro-
electric scheme and an estab-
lished town where employees
could live comfortably. The


1
$
m
SBS
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and A. Mcwilliams,
O’Connell Sts., Manager
Sydney,
selection of this site was after-
wards confirmed by Robert
Woodhead, a world authority
on paper-making.
Among the first big
financiers whose support
Mussen sought was W. L.
Baillieu. He brought Amalga-
mated Zinc into the scheme,
but differences occurred on the
board and that company
dropped out.
Mussen went to London to
interview the committee ad-
ministering the British Trade
Facilities Act. He received
such a favorable hearing that
he expected a recommendation
of an advance of half-a-million
pounds being made, but the
paper-makers of Great Britain
vigorously opposed the pro-
posal, and it was rejected.
He next tried to get United
States capital, and succeeded in
interesting a Mr. Rutherford,
who was associated with the
Foundation Company of
America, but its engineer
condemned the project. Mussen
replied in detail to every
objection, and Rutherford
subsequently told Mussen that
the engineer hadn’t been left
with a feather to fly with. But
it was too late ; others had by
then become interested.
One of these was Sir Henry
Jones, the wealthy Tasmanian
fruit-canning identity. He told
Mussen that he had spent £3OO
to have the proposal investi-
gated and was satisfied that it
was sound. He asked Mussen
how much he wanted. Mussen
said, “Threequarters of a mil-
lion.” Sir Henry replied, “Let
me find it.” Unfortunately,
he dropped dead a few days
later!
Sir James Fairfax, proprie-
tor of the “Sydney Morning
Herald,” personally offered
financial support. Several other
metropolitan newspaper pro-
prietors agreed to enter into
contracts to take 50,000 tons
of newsprint a year for fifteen
years. Then fate took a hand
again. Sir James Fairfax died.
Rutherford reopened the
negotiations on his own be-
half. He talked the project
over with a powerful group of
newspaper companies in Eng-
land, and cabled for Mussen.
He went without delay. The
upshot was that be returned
to Australia with a contract
under which £2,000,000 was to
be spent in establishing the
newsprint - industry in Aus-
tralia. But delays took place,
and the English group asked
for an extension of its contract.
Mussen had never been very
keen on having the industry
wholly controlled by English
interests. He refused the
request.
Meantime, to start the pro-
ject, a small company called
Paper Makers, Ltd., was
formed, with L. K. S.
Mackinnon, one of the pro-
prietors of the “Argus,” as
chairman.
Efforts were made to induce
the Federal Government to
encourage the establishment of
the industry by offering a
bounty of £4 a ton and a duty
of £1 a ton on imported news-
print. This was during the
1930 depression, and the
proposition appealed to the
Scullin Government then in
power, as one of the best
measures to open-up new
prospects of permanent em-
ployment.
“But,” as Mussen remarked,
“the newspapers began to
scream, and the bill was never
introduced.”
W. L. Baillieu came back
into the picture, with the result
that Mussen went post-haste to
Canberra with a proposal that
the Government should
guarantee £150,000 in deben-
tures, private interests to pro-
vide the rest of the capital
required. The Scullin Govern-
ment was in favor. Before the
bill could be introduced a
political crisis arose on another
issue and the Scullin Govern-
ment was defeated!
TAuring all these develop-
ments other financial in-
terests had become impressed
with the prospects of establish-
ing the paper-pulp industry as
the result of further C.5.1.R.0.
experiments, and had obtained
valuable timber - concessions
from the Tasmanian Govern-
ment. They formed a com-
pany for the manufacture of
newsprint, and the newspaper
shareholders in Paper Makers,
Ltd., transferred their interests
on satisfactory terms to the
new company.
This really suited Mussen’s
plans. He had always bfeen
keen on the formation of a
company which would confine
its operations to the manufac-
ture of writing- and typing-
papers, for which he con-
sidered Australian-made pulp
would be more suitable. This
category includes all the higher
classes of writing-papers, as
distinct from newsprint.
Mussen was satisfied that this
would be a more profitable
avenue to explore.
Joseph Lyons, who had
become Prime Minister, asked
Boas and Herbert Gepp
(later Sir Herbert) for a
report on the project. This
was entirely favorable. There
was now no doubt about the
suitability of Australian euca-
lypts for paper-making, and
while the other companies went
ahead with their newsprint and
heavy-paper schemes, Mussen
concentrated on fine printings.
Mr. Harold Cohen, Sir Walter
Massey Green and Sir Colin
Fraser had swung in behind
Mussen, bringing in powerful
financial support from such
companies as North Broken
Hill, South Broken Hill, Amal-
gamated Zinc, Electrolytic
Zinc and Zinc Corporation.
When the big public com-
pany was floated under the
name of Associated Pulp and
Paper Mills, Ltd., the 325,000
shares that were made available
to the investing public were
heavily oversubscribed.
It was a great occasion in
Burnie on September 9, 1937,
when the Burnie Chamber of
Commerce tendered Mussen a
complimentary dinner. It was
truly said:
“Mr. Mussen had sur-
mounted seemingly unending
difficulties and disappoint-
ments which would have dis-
couraged most men. Fighting
against great odds, he
triumphed after nearly twenty
years’ work.”
The establishment of the
paper-pulp industry was only
portion of Mussen’s scheme for
the development of the Van.
Dieman’s Land Company’s
vast holdings. He secured an
option of purchase at £250,000
of the whole of the area, but
it took so long to get the paper-
pulp industry established that
he had to allow his option to
run out, except for large areas
of forest-lands within easy dis-
tance of Burnie. These, with
timber-cutting rights granted
to the Burnie company by the
Tasmanian Government over
adjacent Crown lands, and
an adequate reafforestation
scheme, are regarded as suffi-
cient to supply the raw
materials for the future.
Today the great Associated
Pulp and Paper Mills at
Burnie, backed with eight-
million of capital, stands as a
monument to one whose
imagination and courage
resulted in the creation of one
of the biggest new industries
in Australia. This great work
put the coping-stone on the
spectacular career of a man
of kindness, enterprise and
human understanding, whose
great usefulness to the com-
munity well merited the knight-
hood conferred on him in
1939.
MAGPIES
(For Francis)
From dawn the magpie sings
for the sun.
My seven months’ boy in his
basket
Warbles the waking day on
his own
For joy of his own answers.
The magpie sings at midnight
too.
In the moon of dreams and
terror
The silent corridor shakes with
the flow
Of laughter, his own laughter.
The high magpie coming down
dive-bombs
The eagle floating over.
When that silent shadow comes
He will not take cover.
S.A.
GEOFFREY DUTTON.
RING FY7 FOR FOOTSCRAY
OF course nothing like
this could happen to
you today (I hope); it
belongs to an earlier
age of telephoning. I found
my story of it stowed away in
a forgotten file. And, to con-
clude, here it is:
I turn the dial on the auto-
matic telephone to FY7, which
stands for Footscray. Nothing
happens. I do this at intervals
for ten minutes and still I
receive no response. I consult
the Telephone Guide and learn
o Continued on page 44)


M’s All lit “Hansard”
Parliament being above all things
a place where people talk, it
stands to reason that the number
of words uttered in a year in the
seven Australian talking-shops is almost
beyond computation, even allowing for
the fact that the number of sitting-days
per session wouldn’t overtax the consti-
tution of a broody hen.
In the case of the Federal Parliament
a considerable proportion of this flood
of oratory is broadcast over the national
radio-network. There is, of course, no
guarantee that anyone listens to all of
it or that everyone listens to any of it,
but it is a safe assumption that someone
listens to some of it. As to the rest of
it—well, the spoken words, unedited,
uncorrected and unrecallable, are
pumped into space to take their chance.
Members of State legislatures do not
share with their Federal confreres the
distinction of having their speeches
broadcast, but, like them, they have the
proud knowledge that every word they
utter in the House is preserved for
posterity. Every word? Well, almost.
The “Hansard” staff of shorthand-
writers are charged with this awful
responsibility, and it is generally admitted
that they make a pretty good job of it.
Being tidy-minded people with a deep
regard for the Queen’s English, they
hate to see a sentence that has started
off well lose itself in a maze of subsidiary
clauses or flounder about looking for
the verb that will put it back on the
path of straight-thinking. They therefore,
with the approval of most members,
tidy-up the speeches for publication,
correct major grammatical slips, omit
the “ers” and “urns” and redistribute
the aspirates.
r T"'HE result of this is agreeably sur-
prising to members who read their
own speeches and find out that they are
better orators than they thought they
were. This misconception could of
course be remedied -by reading other
members’ speeches and realising that the
hand of the polisher-upper had been
at work. But what member would ever
want to read another member’s speech?
Federal “Hansard” for the current
year runs into 5608 pages for the House
of Representatives and 3546 for the
Senate. The State Parliaments having
fewer members than the Canberra insti-
tution, their “Hansards” are not quite
so voluminous, but they make quite
sizeable tomes nonetheless.
Incidentally, “Hansard” must be about
the cheapest reading-matter available in
Australia ; threepence will buy an issue
covering two or three days’ proceedings
and running into anything up to 150
pages. Yet, apart from M.P.s, few
people read “Hansard”—a fact that must
be rather saddening to members, as
what is the good of getting one’s speech
into print if no one reads it? Members
probably console themselves with the
thought that the record is really being
preserved for posterity.
TJosterity not being at hand to speak
for itself, we can only base our
estimate of how it will react to these
mountains of eloquence on our know-
ledge of what history has done to the
great figures of other ages. The result
is not encouraging. Take King Alfred,
for example. Of all the things tradition
might have preserved in his memory it
has chosen to hand down the legend
that he burnt a batch of cakes. There
is no suggestion that he made a habit
of it and almost any cook or house-
wife must have burnt more cakes than
he did. Yet to most people Alfred is
known as the man who burnt the cakes.
Similarly with Bruce and the spider.
It seems most likely then that posterity
will not be interested in the speeches
which members themselves regard as
worthy of study, but will remember
instead trifles which now seem insignifi-
cant. The Divorce Bill was one of the
most important pieces of legislation dealt
with by the Federal Parliament this year
When posterity reads the “Hansard”
report of the Senate debate on this
measure it will come across a speech by
Senator Dorothy Tangney which opens
on this note:
It seems to me that this bill is rather
like the curries or stews that I make on
Thursday nights when I get rid of every-
thing in the refrigerator. I put everything
in and make a curry or a stew out of it.
It seems that everything in the way of
divorce law has been put into this bill.
Senator Tangney is assured of a place
in history as the first woman to be
elected to the Commonwealth Senate,
but in two- or three-hundred years’ time
posterity will place little importance on
her views on divorce. But it may be
vastly interested to know what she had
for dinner on Thursday nights!
Historians of a future age, studying
the habits of politicians of 1959, may
get the impression that members are
interested only in things that will win
them popularity in their electorates and
gain them votes. Two extracts from a
recent South Australian “Hansard” may
counter this.
TN the South Australian Legislative
Council the Hon. R. R. Wilson
expressed concern about the destruction
of porpoises in waters adjacent to his
electorate: —
It is considered by some that the
porpoise is one of the most intelligent
creatures, after man. In New Zealand a
porpoise named Pelorus Jack' used to meet
incoming ships and, as it were,' hitchhike
with them for miles upon miles at the
same pace as the ship.... Opo, another
famous New Zealand porpoise, played ball
and allowed children to ride on its back,
and it was a joy to all who saw it.
In the South Australian Assembly
Opposition-leader Mick O’Halloran, sup-
porting the Motor Vehicles Bill, admitted
to some sadness at the thought that this
bill “marked the complete end of the
horse-and-buggy era.” He said that was
all very well while things international
went smoothly but he had some mis-
givings at the thought of what might
happen if Australia’s oil-supplies should
ever be cut off:
If that day should unhappily come we
shall have reason to rue the passing of
the horse, but I think it is idle for me
or anyone else to lament the passing of
Dobbin; unfortunately, Dobbin’s demise
seems to be real and permanent.
As neither porpoises nor horses have
votes these passages may be quoted
centuries hence as proof that at least
two of our politicians, one a Liberal
porpoise-lover and the other a Labor
Dobbin-lover, had thoughts beyond mere
vote-catching.
Posterity will, of course, find plenty
of evidence of what Sir Roger de
Coverley used to call “the malice of
parties.” Most of this will be voted
dull through repetition, but occasional
quips may be considered worth noting.
These two examples from Queensland
“Hansard” might qualify, as representa-
.tive of two sides in politics. The first
is credited to A. T. Dewar, Liberal
M.L.A. for Chermside:
For 20 years a Labor Government talked
about a fertiliser-works at Parkhurst, but
didn’t even raise a smell.
The second is a crack by J. Burrows,
Labor M.L.A. for Port Curtis:
He [the Minister for Education] never
misses an opportunity to push the political
barrow, but I’m afraid it is so overloaded
with men like the honorable member for
Cooroora [D. A. Low, Country party]
that it must be hard for him to push it.
Also from Queensland “Hansard”
comes this plague-on-both-your-Houses
comment from T. Aitkens, Independent
M.L.A. for Mundingburra:
I have known A.L.P. aldermen with as
little brains as Tory aldermen.
■puTURE researchers may be helped in
their interpretation of debates by
this lucid remark of Assistant Minister
Mannix, recorded in N. S. Wales
“Hansard”:
The best legal opinion on the meaning
of the word “may” and the word “shall”
as used in statutes, may be found in one
of the authorities on the interpretation
of statutes, Maxwell, readily available in
the Parliamentary library. A reference
will be found there to many decisions of
the Privy Council as to whether “may”
may mean “may” and whether “shall”
shall mean “shall.”
On browsing through “Qnestion-time”
in the House of Representatives for the
session just ended posterity may find its
curiosity aroused by this query, put to
the Minister for Works by F. Daly,
Labor M.H.R. for Grayndler
(N.S.W.):
1. Have tenders been called by his
department during the past twelve months
for the supply of billiard-tables?
2. If so, which department required
the tables and what were the (a) dates
on which tenders were called; (6) tenders
received; and (c) tenders accepted?
Posterity’s curiosity will have to go
unsatisfied. The Minister replied:
The answers to the honorable member’s
questions are as follows:
1. No.
2. See answer to question 1.


start the day right!
T'-
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Master
Despite his well-intentioned
panegyric (B. 2/12/'59) it is
obvious that “R.L.” never saw
Dally Messenger play Rugby
football.
For two reasons: Firstly, he
was not a winger, but a centre-
threequarter, Though extra-
ordinarily nippy and fast for
50yds., he had not the sustained
speed of the great wing-three-
quarter.
Secondly, Dally was not “fed
by other players.” He always
went looking for the ball and
found it for himself.
Early in his career he was
accused of being a “rover”
who would let his side down,
but he never did, and was
always where he was wanted.
It was his ability to think
seconds quicker than any other
player, the facility to stay on
or regain his feet when
tackled, his bewildering oppor-
tunism, his uncanny intuition
as to his opponents’ intentions,
his versatility in beating his
opposition—for each one a
different trick —a master of the
sidestep, swerve, prop and
change of pace, and a wonder-
fully safe pair of hands —all
these made him the greatest
centre who ever pulled on a
jersey.
Australia has had no better
place-kick, but he could also
drop-kick goals from halfway,
and his punting was extra-
ordinary. Everything he did
was better than any other
player, and that other great
footballer and sound judge
Les Cubitt did not exaggerate
when he said that Dally was
equal to any other two backs.
Time and time again he would
beat every player on the field
to score tries.
I first saw Messenger play in
1905 at Hampden Oval (now
Trumper Park, Sydney). He
was playing second-grade with
Eastern Suburbs against Uni-
versity in the season’s final, an
early match to the first-grade
fixture. He was the bright,
scintillating star, and Easts
won easily.
Then, with 10-minutes spell,
he was roped into the First XV,
and he won that match, too,
just as brilliantly.
A new star was on the
horizon.
In 1906, after a few games,
all football enthusiasts had
Daily’s name on their lips, and
then came the great All Blacks
from New Zealand. Messenger
practically picked himself, and
on the Sydney Cricket Ground
he scored the wonderful try
that gave an Australian team
its very first victory over New
Zealand, jumping and diving
over three burly forwards to
land head-first behind the
goal-line with the ball. The
All Blacks went on to Eng-
land for a triumphant tour.
In 1907 A. H. Baskerville,
“You’ve got him bluffed —he just can’t believe you
haven’t got something up your sleeve."
capitalising on the success of
the All Blacks’ Union tour,
gathered some of the original
All Blacks team, and with other
prominent players arranged a
tour of Lancashire and York-
shire against the Northern
Union (now the English Rugby
League). They brbke their
journey in Sydney and met a
team of players who were dis-
satisfied with their treatment
by the N.S.W. Rugby Union.
Messenger was induced to
play, and became Australia’s
first professional Rugby
player.
He so dazzled and be-
wildered the All Blacks that
they insisted he accompany
them, which he did, and wore
the black jersey and the silver
fern for the tour. He played
in practically every match,
creating a furore of enthusiasm.
He did have one spell—he
played fullback against Wales
and scored three tries!
At the end of the tour the
All Blacks called in at Sydney
and Messenger played against
them with N.S.W. In this
match he kicked one goal that
was measured at 110yds.
Back he went to England in
1908 with the first Kangaroos,
and again proved a prolific
crowd-gatherer. Then the Eng-
lish Rugby League paid him
the wonderful compliment of
hanging his life-size portrait in
oils in its headquarters, with
the only caption “The Master.”
They were the days before
World War I, when little was
known of Australians, and for
the “Poms” to do that shows
the pedestal they put him on.
Back Dally came to Sydney
for his fifth season of big foot-
ball without a break —in fact,
no other player that I know of
had as much big football as
the Master, and it speaks well
for his stamina that he was
able to continue on until 1913.
And then he did not “lag
superfluous upon the stage.”
Without Dally Messenger
there would have been no
Rugby League in Australia. He
was the magnet that drew the
crowds until Harold Horder
and other stars were able to
take-over. We shall not see his
like again.
H. H. Bridge.
* * *
Despite outstandingly bril-
liant play by one following
close in Daily's footsteps—
young Kangaroo centre Reg
Gasnier, who was respon-
sible for both Australia’s
tries (scored by Raper and
Carlson) —England won the
deciding Rugby League Test
played at Wigan at the week-
end, 18-12. For England, Fox
doubled Barnes’s three goals to
secure the two-to-one holding
of the Ashes.
Sydney Horses
In the £2150 International
Stakes, staged at Canterbury
Park last Saturday, Yosi
Nohira first rider from
Japan to compete in Australia
—handled Akatarawa with
skill equal to that shown by
the Sydney jockeys who had
won nine races on that New
Zealand-bred galloper. Aka-
tarawa started from the outside
barrier, but Nohira was in no
hurry to cross the field on
the freegoing Canterbury
specialist. He took about 24-
furlongs to gain control; then
he raced to a three-lengths
lead, gave Akatarawa a
breather along the back of the
course, and won very well, his
good horsemanship fully merit-
ing the cheers from the crowd
and his £lOO trophy. It was
race-record time, for
the 9{ furlongs.
• • • •
The real star attraction,
however, was of course Tod-
man, and he raced as all at
the course hoped he would,
winning the Flying at his ease,
after having been off the scene
for upwards of two years.
M. McCarten did a grand job
to get him so fit and well for
such a splendid first-up suc-
cess, after the handsome chest-
nut had given him plenty of
trouble and at more than one
stage was believed to be
finished with racing. His
lmin. 10.9 sec. was a course
record. Not much wonder
that runner -up Cornelius
punctured in the final burst,
to be beaten by two lengths,
with Lady Cortauld five
lengths away third. Keeping
on as fit as this, the brilliant
five-year-old will be just the
sort of attraction that clubs


THE
ORION INSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
{lncorporated in England)
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT AVIATIOIV
N.S.W. BRANCH: 19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
TELEPHONES * BU 4387 L. F. THORPE, Manager
and racegoers alike have been
waiting for.
Trained at Rosebery by
Frank Lewis (who has Gren-
oble) the three-year-old filly
Ziette won the Campsie Stakes
in a style giving promise of
staying. Raced sparingly
(which should be to her
benefit), she is by El Ziet (imp.),
winner of about a dozen races
on Sydney tracks at.from six
to 12 furlongs, including a
Rosehill Cup (1* mile). Her
dam, Addition, is by The
Buzzard (imp.) from Calcu-
late by Caledon (imp.) from
Ashtaroth by The Welkin
(imp.).
• • • •
Newcastle trainer F. K.
Tinson won races at Canter-
bury and at Newcastle the
same afternoon, both horses
starting favorite. Wanton Lass
had an easy task in the Can-
terbury First Ashbury Stakes,
and Gander cleared out with
the second division of the
First Improvers’ event at New-
castle. Tinson may give
Wanton Lass (a four-year-old
Bob Cherry mare) her next
chance at Newcastle, but she
could win again soon in
Sydney.
Erskine, winner of the
Second Ashbury, has now had
three starts for a second and
two wins, and the . Newtown
Wonder sprinter could score in
much better than Graduation
Stakes company, especially
around the six furlongs at
Canterbury.
Goldspur gave N. Sellwood
an easy ride in winning the
Third Ashbury, the five-year-
old Golden Hackle gelding
running right up to the form
of his close second to Saydor
at Rosehill, where he led to
the closing stages. It was his
first city win, but he had won
four country races and then
one at Kembla Grange. His
dam, Avis Mari, is by Talking
from Wyavis.
• • • •
In the 74-furlongs Welter
the usual scrimmage and
bunching soon after the start
saw Tudor House one of the
principal sufferers —cut back to
third-last —and apprentice H.
Trenear did well to get him
balanced quickly and go on
to win, after covering more
ground than any other runner.
There generally is a fair
amount of early jostling in
races at this distance at Canter-
bury, mostly caused by riders
near the outside trying to get
over much too quickly—a
dangerous practice that the
club might well look into.
Wattle did well on the race-
track, with the Champagne
Stakes among her wins, and
“She's not herself —cant keep a thing down today."
she’s producing smart gollopers.
Another of her progeny, Flori-
bunda, nicely won the Juvenile
Maiden for fillies at the A.J.C.’s
midweek Twilight meeting. He’s
by Flying Missel (Am.). The
Two-year-old Maiden for colts
and geldings was won by Alpen-
stock, a colt by the new sire
Alpenhorn (imp.) from Nizam's
Belle by Belvedere (imp.)
from Nizam’s Ring by Nizami
(imp.).
A possible Summer Cup pros-
pect showed-up at the Twilight
—Dual Copy, winner at his
latest two outings over the
Randwick - 10 furlongs. A
Carbon Copy four-year-old,
he’s handicapped on the limit
(7.4) in the £2600 mile-and-a-
half Cup (on Boxing Day).
Carrying 7.6, he beat open
company in last week’s win.
The A.J.C. Villiers Stakes,
first leg of the Randwick
summer double, will be run
next Saturday, and should
draw a smart field of milers.
Acceptances are not due until
tomorrow (Thursday), but on
latest displays Boorala makes
a strong appeal as the likely
winner. Comte de Paris and
Lady Cortauld raced promis-
ingly at Canterbury and could
provide the chief opposition,
while Tudor House could be a
lightweight danger with 7.7 —
31b. above the limit.
* * *
At Caulfield
The Smokey Eyes colt Fiery
Eyes, who had run three
minor placings from five
starts, deserved to break
through for a win in the first
division of the five-furlongs
Acorn Stakes for two-year-olds
at Caulfield. Trainer Russ
Wallis put his promising
apprentice Des Lake on Fiery
Eyes, and young Lake rode
his usual good race: he now
has 19 metropolitan wins to his
credit.
It is a long time since any
Melbourne racetrack has seen
such a well-executed betting-
plunge as that associated with
Boran’s win in the second heat
of the Acorn. Boran had
raced twice before, for a ninth
in a country Maiden and a
dismal 11th behind Aly Khan
at Moonee Valley, so it was
not surprising that he was
50 to 1, with 100 to 1 available
in places. Connections of
Boran moved quietly around
taking the long odds, and
then, as the quote shortened,
accelerated their investments,
until finally the Ring was in
a turmoil, with the books try-
ing to “bet back,” and the
public trying to follow the
money. At barrier-rise, the
best about Boran was 7 to 1.
The colt duly landed the money
with a withering run which
took him from ninth at the
turn to a length-win. It is not
surprising that Boran can
finish-on. His sire, Double
Bore, won the Goodwood Cup
(2 miles 5 furlongs) in Eng-
land, and his dam, Follies, by
Midstream, is a sister to
Murray Stream, dual winner
of the Metropolitan.
Hat-tricks are about as
elusive on the racetrack as on
a cricket-ground, but two
horses at Caulfield scored their
third win in a row! One was
Fund Hurdle winner Grasirius.
trained by Warrnambool
mentor Kevin Lafferty, who
seems able to make a jumper
out of every horse that comes
to him. Grasirius, who won
well enough to be worth watch-
ing next winter, is a six-year-
old gelding by 1944 Melbourne
Cup winner Sirius :
The other hat-trick per-
former was Turkish Empire,
who won the 12-furlongs
Benevolent Handicap. An aged
gelding by Ottoman from
Beluni, Turkish Empire showed
form in his younger days, but
turned mulish. He’s now under
the firm hand of Euroa
trainer and dairyfarmer D.
Shannon, who has been school-
ing him over hurdles a
reliable cure for most wayward
horses. Turkish Empire had
prefaced his Caulfield success
with wins at Albury and
Pakenham, and could score
again before the handicapper
gets his measure. One to
watch from this race is Voile
D'Or, who may have won but
for being carted off the course
at the turn.
Prince Dahomey, who won
the 10-furlongs Heath Handi-
cap, put up an excellent per-
formance to finish all over the
field after being at the rear
for most of the race. He could
be a chance in the Bagot
Handicap on New Year's Day.
The well - named Flying
Missel gelding Jet Gun stands


QANTAS introduces
with BOEING 707 Jetliners
7777
Hiui! UAX T A i
SYDNEY • FIJI • HONOLULU
SAN FRANCISCO • NEW YORK • LONDON
QANTAS
AUSTRALIA'S ROUND-THE-WORLD AIRLINE
Qantas Empire Airways Ltd. (Inc. in Qld.) in association with 8.0.A.C., TEAL& S.A.A. 934.63.7?
over 17 frands, and must be
close to the biggest horse
racing in Melbourne. He was
heavily backed from sevens to
fours to win The Sprint, and
Ron Hutchinson, who is soon
to try his luck in England,
played a big part in his win,
hugging the rails all the way
and getting the run-through
right on the line to just beat
Sartorial Splendour. Former
Westralian On Guard, who had
not raced since his second to
Tudor Hill in the Doncaster
last autumn, had a run in The
Sprint, but he was carrying a
lot of condition. He will be
better for the run.
Winner of the Benefit Welter,
Strontium had won a similar
race back in September at 50
to 1, but at two starts since
had finished with the tail-
enders. He won Saturday’s
race like a really good horse,
conceding the leaders a dozen
lengths half -a - mile from
home, but coming down the
outside in the straight to win
going away. Raced by the
mother-and-sons combination
of Mrs. E. G. Trevaskis and
T. R. and R. A. Trevaskis,
Strontium—if he can run up
to Saturday’s form —should
win more races against similar
class.
% # %
The Trots
Leading nearly all the way,
favorite Sweet Oro was beaten
narrowly in the Harold Park
Handicap last Friday night by
the previous week’s Handicap
winner, Delvyn Ringer. Half-
way through the race, and
trailing the leader, Ross Lawn
seemed to be favoring a leg,
and , presently broke into a
gallop, causing severe inter-
ference to several well-backed
runners, including Firmament,
Colonist and Flingo. Trailing
Piermont for most of the
journey in the Turramurra
Handicap, Jim Caffyn, driving
hot favorite Eden Monaro,
found himself boxed-in with
about two furlongs to go.
Stewards held that by easing
back and forcing a passage
he caused interference, and gave
him a month to think it over.
Eden Monaro failed by a
length to catch Piermont, with
fast-finishing Mossgiel a close
third. One of Sydney’s oldest
trotting drivers, Jack Watts
(62), drove Queen Bee to a
convincing win in the Trotters’
Handicap and later made it a
double with Blue in the
Pymble Handicap. Another
oldster, Jim Simonds (63),
drove High View to an all-the-
way win in the Killara Handi-
cap. Sons of both veterans
drive regularly at the Park.
* * *
Cricket Tests
The third cricket Test
between Australia and Pakistan
finished in a draw, with the
advantage Australia’s way,
though it had finished its first
innings 30 runs shy. Having won
the first two Tests, Australia won
the three-Test series. Pakistan bats-
men were dreadfully slow in both
innings, and on the average in the
series scored at only half the
Australian rate. Diminutive Pakis-
tan opener Hanjf Mohammed
made 51 and 101 not-out; while
Saeed Ahmad, who made 166 in
the second Test, notched a first-
innings 91. Best bowling figures:
Benaud’s 5-93 off 49.5 overs in
Pakistan’s first innings.
“Veryl”: North Perth’s red-
headed left-hand fast-bowler Hubert
Bevan on a recent Saturday was
no-balled 14 times —13 times for
dragging and once for throwing.
None of the commentators I read
recalled that in Bevan’s first Shield
appearance, against Queensland in
Perth in December, 1956, he was
no-balled nine times on the first
day. In the same recent round of
Perth district cricket this year, inter-
state cricketer and footballer Alan
Preen was also no-balled for throw-
ing. Mayhap he was justified—his
three previous balls had each been
hit for 4.
“K.R.”: In the only game which
produced a decision in the Sydney
grade round played on rainy
December 5, fast-medium bowler
Ken Gray took 9-43 in Bankstown’s
win over Petersham—most wickets
ever taken by a Bankstown first-
grade bowler. Moreover, he caught
the other man, the last wicket to
fall. Otherwise he might have
bowled the lot.
“Flannels”: That master organiser
of G.P.S. sport R. S. Rankine, of
Sydney’s Scots College, is organis-
ing a round-the-world cricket-tour.
His team, to be known as the
Australian Old Collegians Wan-
derers and totalling 24, leaves early
in the new year and will “take-in”
the Rome Olympics. Itinerary
includes matches in Scotland, Eng-
land and Ireland, mostly against
minor countries and such famous
schools as Eton, Harrow and
Rugby. Games in Canada, Boston,
Chicago, Philadelphia and New
York also figure in the scheme, and
in Europe the team will play the
British Army of the Rhine and the
Second Tactical Air Force in Ger-
many. Between matches there’ll be
sightseeing, and enthusiasm for the
tour is such that there are plenty
willing to plank down the £l5OO
involved.
* * *
• Newington
College (Sydney) headmaster
L. Pryke, speaking at the
annual speech-night at Sydney
Town Hall, voiced strong views
°» over-organisat.oi of inter-
school sport. He said three
aspects had to be discussed
q„ f ~ * ■
~ ” dS me Ia f t l inat tne desir s
to win at all costs caused
unsportsmanlike behavior on
the field. Competition became
so intense that, in order to
keep pace with Qth schools,
too much time had to be given
to sport. Too much interest
was being aroused in school-
cnr.rt u,
P ’ d \ hat should be
pleasant games between school-
boys became public spectacles,
Tn do awav with what roulH
, 10 ° aW fy wittl ( . wnat cou d
De pleasant competition simply
because of the objections might
be too drastic a step, but it
as ? ne ,^ Was ein S dlS-
cussed. Mr. Pryke obviously
was referring to statements by
Athletic Association officials
™ , , association officials,
had complained of G.P.S.
athletes not competing.


ABOUT COCKROACHES
OLAZINE kills the >
Over a million jars have
been sold.
NO SPRAYING NO
SMELL.
Just Put on Paper
, or in Bottle Tops.
As Supplied to
Dep’t Army and U.S.A. Navy.
CHEMISTS & STORES
SYDNEY.
3/1 per Jar,
4/- Post Free.
from
NICOL CHEMICAL CO.
ROACH
S
n
OYEP
DESTR
ACH
fioo
...HIS LAST PARTY
TASTY SUPPER-HASTY DEATH
PTY. LTD., Brisbane.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
MIKOYAN IN SOUTH AMERICA
'"Three comments on Russian
Deputy Premier Mikoyan’s
tour of Latin-America with 30
trade-specialists, during which
he opened a Soviet industrial
exhibition in Mexico City and
was said to have offered sub-
stantial credits to the Mexican
Government:
Bruce Rothwell, in London
“News Chronicle” : “The new
Russian drive [in Latin-
America] is exploiting two
related factors:
“1. Falling raw-material
prices, which have affected
economies of every Latin-
American country.
“2. The general desire in
the area for a larger role in
world affairs —a desire amount-
ing in some countries to a
revolt against being taken for
granted by Washington.
“Brazil has just sent a trade-
mission to Russia. Chile has
just held discussions with the
Russians on the installation of
new industries. Colombia
recently signed a trade agree-
ment under which Russia
pledges to buy ‘a large amount’
of coffee.
“Russia is expected here
[the U.S.] to try to back its
new drive by promising
deliveries, on credit, of mass-
produced surplus equipment —
even whole factories.
“For Latin-America the
prospect of guaranteed prices
for several years for the com-
modities on which the respec-
tive economies depend is
something Western markets
have consistently declined to
provide.
“America has suddenly
become concerned over the
economic and political vul-
nerability of the area.”
* * *
New York “Herald Tribune”:
“We [the U.S.] must not make
—London “Observer.”
“NOW WHAT WOULD BE THE BEST TIME
TO MEET HIM?”
the mistake of assuming that
the Soviet offers are only
propaganda. It is obvious that
the Russians could deliver what
they promised if they wanted
to, and it is also obvious that
they could absorb as much raw
material from Latin-America
as suited their purposes.
“The warehouses of South
America are bulging with
goods nobody will buy, as
‘Pravda’ gleefully observed the
other day. And since Latin-
Americans must sell what they
produce but cannot sell enough
in the West, one cannot blame
them if they are inclined to
take the Soviets seriously.
“Keeping Soviet economic—
and, therefore, political—
influence out of this hemis-
phere will be an increasingly
difficult task. But we cannot
address ourselves to this prob-
lem alone. For the Soviet
opportunity in Latin-America
is really a symptom of our own
failure properly to share our
wealth with the countries to
the south of us.
“People used to say, "and
still say, that it is not our
‘fault’ if Latin-America suffers
from poverty and backward-
ness. The Soviets are showing
us that it is.”
i'fi * *
London “Economist's” Wash-
ington Correspondent: “It is
not surprising that Americans
are swallowing hard as they
see Mr. Mikoyan touring
Mexican industrial plants and
Brazil preparing to send an
economic mission to the Soviet
Union. But the political
implications of the problem are
far wider than the issue of
Communism.
“The United States has run
up hard against two facts. One
is that the Latin-Americans
are not insulated, as it was
rather trustfully hoped they
would be, from the nationalism
at large in the world. This is
most obvious in Panama, the
one country where the United
States occupies a slice of terri-
tory. But it is also shown in
the growing reluctance of
Latin-American delegations at
the United Nations to have
their arms twisted by big
brother; at one time in this
session eight of them —the
largest number ever to rebel
on a cold-war issue—were
voting against the United
States in the fight between
Turkey and Poland for a seat
on the Security Council.
“The other unpleasant fact
is that a social revolution is
stirring with which the United
States, forgetful of its own
revolutionary youth, has so
far been unable to identify
itself.
“Very little has been done,
for instance, to carry out the
recommendation made by Dr.
Milton Eisenhower almost a
year ago that the United States
should treat democratic
Governments more warmly
than dictatorships. The former
Ambassador to Cuba has
been replaced by one more
sympathetic to the Cuban
reformers, but the Ambassador
to Nicaragua, a friend of the
very .undemocratic President
Somoza, remains. Nicaragua
and the Dominican Republic
continue to receive small
amounts of military aid for
‘hemisphere defence,’ in spite
of an abortive attempt by
Senator Morse this year to
strike them from the list, and
there is a team of military
advisers in darkest Paraguay.
“So far the United States
has also been unable to muster
much enthusiasm for the re-
distribution of land-ownership
demanded by the Latin-
American reformers. Mr.
Chester Bowles, one of the
best-informed liberals in
foreign affairs, [has] argued
in the ‘New York Times’ that
it will have to do so if it is
to have a chance of retaining
their confidence.”
Housing Migrants
A suggestion made by Lieut.-
Colonel R. F. Wright in
Britain that the U.K. Govern-
ment should advance money
to British settlers in Australia
for buying homes brought a
letter to London “Daily Tele-
graph” from G. C. Colbran:
“At present the main
obstacle in the way of house-
purchase in Australia is the
very severe restrictions which
the Australian Government
has imposed on loans for this
purpose. In practice these
mean that about 50 per cent,
of the full purchase-price must


CHRISTMAS CARDS
A unique range of hand-colored Christmas Cards
featuring photographs by Monte Luke, F.R.P.S., and
John Wray, A.R.P.S., of Australian landscapes and
scenes is available to readers at the privilege price of
10s. a dozen, with envelopes. Orders should be
addressed to the Card Department, Box 2521, G.P.0.,
Sydney, with remittance enclosed. A sample card will
be sent by return mail on receipt of three sd. stamps.
Please print your name and address.
watch his eyes
LIGHT UP
when you give him a
this Christmas
Barling Briar Pipes are cut from rare roots of
great age. On!/ the finest grains are selected.
There is no “breaking in" and, to ensure free
draught, only the finest vulcanite is bored.
Give him a Barling—he’ll be delighted.
Obtainable from all Leading
Tobacconists
Trade enquiries: Box 502, G.P.0., Sydney.
be put down as a deposit, and
in Australia that means a
minimum of £ISOO.
“To make matters worse,
the chief source of loans for
housing, the insurance-com-
panies, will lend only on new
or recently-built homes, so that
older houses are available for
the most part only to cash-
customers. Strangely enough,
restrictions do not apply to
anything like the same extent
on hire-purchase of luxury-
goods like refrigerators, TV-
sets or motor-cars.
“Thus a young couple with,
say, £SOO saved soon find that
they might as well wish for
the moon as hope to use this
sum as a deposit on a £3OOO
house, but they have quite
enough for down-payment on
a luxury American automobile
costing just about as much.
“Now, I think it has been
established that one of the
worst causes of resentment
towards migrants in any coun-
try is competition for housing.
You have printed some letters
reporting ill-feeling against
British migrants in Australia,
but I know from personal
observation that they usually
get on very well with Aus-
tralians.
“But what would happen if
Col. Wright’s proposal were
put into effect, and British
migrants alone could obtain
loans for housing, while Aus-
tralians —not to mention non-
British migrants—could not?
Knowing Australians as I do,
I am sure their protests would
be more than vocal, and in
any case no Australian politi-
cal party could expect to sur-
vive an election after allowing
such an unfair situation to
develop.
“No doubt there is a case
for injecting additional finance
into Australian housing, but
surely the first step is to bring
pressure to bear on the Aus-
tralian Government to ease
their absurd restrictions on
housing-finance, and to make
house-purchase in Australia as
easy as it is in Britain, as it
should be.
“The British Government as
a passive if not active partner
in the migration-scheme has
the right, surely, to bring such
pressure. But any easing in
controls, with or without finan-
cial assistance from this coun-
try, would have to apply
— N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
SLEEP TIGHT , AMERICA.
equally to all home-buyers,
whether Australian-born or
migrants, British or non-
British.”
Flag Language
/Commenting editorially on a
book called The History
and Significance of the Flags
of Nations, by Kofi Davies,
of the Prime Minister’s Office
in Ghana, the Manchester
“Guardian” asks: “How many
people appreciate that in many
cases the colors [on flags] are
supposed to bear symbolic
meanings distinct from the
national significance of their
pattern or combination?”:
“Ghana’s flag has stripes of
red, yellow and green ; as it
is one of the most recently
devised, many people may
recall that the red is intended
to commemorate those who
worked for the country’s
independence, yellow for its
wealth, and green for its farms
and forests.
“This is perhaps the most
logical arrangement, except
Bolivia’s red, yellow and green
(not recorded here), which
stands for her animal, mineral
and vegetable resources respec-
tively.
“In Italy, green, white and
red are taken to represent
faith, hope and charity.
Liberia’s red, white and blue
are for valor, purity and
fidelity. India’s saffron, white
and green have been defined by
Sir S. Radakrishnan as point-
ing respectively to renuncia-
tion or disinterestedness, light
and the path of truth, and
man’s relation to plant-life.
“In Greece blue stands for
the sea and sky, white for the
purity of the national charac-
ter ; in Finland blue is for the
country’s lakes, white for its
snows ; in the Sudan blue is
for the, Nile, yellow for the
desert and green for the culti-
vated land. Pakistan’s flag is
three-quarters green, one-
quarter white, symbolising the
Moslem majority and the non-
Moslem minorities.
“Mr. Davies’s researches
may add fresh interest to the
display of national flags- on
ceremonial occasions. But the
significance of colors varies
so much that it would be rash
to speculate on the intention
of unfamiliar combinations.”
Soviet Censors Again
T ast month, even while
Georgi Zhukov, the Soviet
expert in foreign cultural rela-
tions, was in London seeking
a new cultural pact with
Britain, the British Council was
perturbed to learn that Soviet
censors had removed about 30
items from an exhibition of
4000 British books and periodi-
cals in. the Lenin Library in
Moscow.
Among the books removed


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
7 S YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
—“New Statesman.”
CATCHING UP.
were the Earl of Halifax’s auto-
biography The Fullness of
Time, A. L. Rowse’s The Later
Churchills, H. R. Trevor-
Roper’s The Last Days of
Hitler, a biography of ballerina
Dame Margot Fonteyn, a study
of George Orwell and Alan
Bullock’s biography of Hitler.
Reasons given for the removals
were that the books allegedly
contained “distortions” or
“inaccuracies” relating to
Soviet society, ideology or
foreign policy. Selected
press comment:
London “News Chronicle ” :
“There is probably no section
of the human race more prone
to make fools of themselves
than censors. Perhaps nothing
except the habitual timidity
and stupidity of Soviet bureau-
cracy should be read into this
soldering over of a chink in the
Iron Curtain.”
* *
London “Time and Tide”:
“Great indignation has been
expressed by some of the
authors whose books have been
removed. We cannot ourselves
profess great surprise or indig-
nation on learning that Time
and Tide’ has been similarly
removed, along with a number
of other distinguished publica-
tions, including ‘Encounter,’
The New Scientist,’ The
Hibbert Journal' and ‘The
Economist.’
“All the same, the episode
has its comic aspect. Is one
to assume that the Soviet
citizen will be thrown off
balance by merely seeing the
outside front cover of, say, The
Economist’ or Time and
Tide’? The pen may be
mightier than the sword, but
we can hardly flatter ourselves
it is as mighty as all that.”
❖ ij:
London “E co n o nvi s t”:
“Such Stalinist antics should
not be taken too tragically.
Cultural coexistence cannot be
established overnight. Mr.
Zhukov, it is to be hoped, will
have been tackled sufficiently
energetically in London that,
he may have a word or two
with the censors when he goes
home. As it is, the Russians
have given everyone a sound
idea of the type of British
book that they don’t like to
see around—and which Dr.
Charles Hill [of the British
Council] ought soon to be
pushing onto the overseas
market in some quantity.”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman”:
“Too much should not be
made of this episode, but it is
right that the Russians should
be permitted to see that we in
Britain believe that cultural
exchanges are bound to be
robbed of their value if they
are not free and open.
“Much appears in Soviet
books and journals with which
we in this country profoundly
disagree, but we should not
dream of forbidding the entry
into Britain of this literature in
consequence. As the Soviet
Government should be well
aware, British newspapers fre-
quently publish quotations from
the Soviet Press, or from
Russian spokesmen, that are
sharply critical of our society
and of our own press.
“Nations cannot move
towards mutual understanding
in blinkers. If they seek to
do so, their friendship can only
be based on a tissue of lies and
misconceptions.”
* * *
John Baker White, in a
letter to London “Daily Tele-
graph’’ : “The list serves to
show how deep the cultural
gulf still is between the Soviet
Union and the West, and the
degree to which the knowledge
the Russian people may or may
not have is still controlled.
“Nevertheless, the fact that
3970 out of 4000 publications
still remain on exhibition is
something to be welcomed.”
"Verba Volant"
Tn a letter to the New York
“Herald Tribune,” E. S.
Dessoffy, of Lisbon, asks:
“Why should the Hungarian
Government pay attention to
requests from the United
Nations [for observers to be
allowed into the country]?”
He adds:
“As is known, and members
of the U.N. Assembly are cer-
tainly aware, the present.
Hungarian Government has
never been recognised by the
Western Powers either de facto
or de jure. It therefore appears
not only futile but downright
grotesque to address requests
and petitions to non-recognised
—e rg o theoretically non-
existent —authorities. All the
more so as the same non-
recognised Government has
nothing to lose and everything
to gain by refusing admission
to United Nations representa-
tives. As long as the situation
remains static, Western poli-
ticians may protest repeatedly
and that will be all there is
to it.
“Thus when British Foreign
Secretary Selwyn Lloyd spoke
in Parliament on the ‘disturb-
ing reports’ from Hungary he
was obliged to add that he was
‘unable to confirm’ the news of
the recent execution of 30
young students (which lack of
reliable information on the
part of a Foreign Secretary
seems odd. It certainly suited
Hungarian authorities).
“In Tibet the Chinese
emasculate their prisoners. In
Hungary students are executed.
(May the planned forthcoming
execution of another 100 boys,
when those rebel teenagers
have attained the mature age
of 18, remain a non-consum-
mated atrocity.) Who knows
—London "Evening Standard .”
LA GRANDE ILLUSION.


A
t*\mF
THE UMPIRES gather up the stumps
and another great match is ended.
Now in its unchanging way comes the evening
ritual of the game—friendly talk and cheerful
banter, new jokes and old songs, and
White Horse Whisky, gleaming
gently in the glasses.
Ask for tha
Gift Pack
'/la
nl
/m
ms 4!
Ihnlßfi
m
•S?
mmm.
W/'AVi
m
Wmgmg
;■ --
cm.
□
xr«
what fate is in store for
patriots when the bell tolls for
the next nation to be ‘liberated’
of its freedom. Then, no
doubt, well-meaning West-
erners will again raise their
voice in protest, in indignation,
in concern.
“It is quite as certain that
their voices will disappear un-
heeded in the limbo of
Communist self-assertion and
self-confidence.
“Verba volant —voices, like
words, make no impression on
unwilling ears.”
Red Trade Pact
London “Economist” :
A “An East German delega-
tion signed an important trade-
agreement last month in
Moscow. Trade-exchanges be-
tween the Soviet Union and
East Germany are to be raised
to the value of 7500-million
roubles next year and to at
least 42,500-million roubles
in the following five years.
Quotas may be increased
each year, but the lists of com-
modities provided for in the
basic long-term agreement are
by themselves fairly impressive.
“The long-term agreement fits
into the pattern of integration
which ‘Comecon,’ the Com-
munist council of mutual
economic aid, is seeking
gradually to establish through-
out the Soviet bloc. Since all
the members of the bloc have
economic plans formulated up
to 1965, these can be dove-
tailed into each other by means
of trade-pacts of equal dura-
tion.
Similar agreements have, or
will be, signed by all the Com-
munist countries in Europe
both with Russia and among
themselves. Clearly, in
Moscow’s eyes East Germany
is a full member of the bloc,
not a potential outsider. While
the Bonn Government tenaci-
ously pursues the integration
of Western Europe, the other
third is being more firmly
embedded in its place in the
Communist common-market.”
Dragnet Digest
London “News Chronicle":
“Certainly any addition to the
mushroom-cloud club is un-
desirable. But the French are
at least forcing the existing
members to face unpalatable
facts. France will abandon her
bombs when Britain, Russia
and the United States do so.
General de Gaulle is playing
on the fear which unites the
nuclear trio —the spread of
nuclear weapons to a dozen
nations. If by so doing he
can inject more urgency into
the disarmament negotiations,
so much the better for peace.”
* * *
Baltimore “Sun” : “It is very
doubtful that France will pay
any attention to the United
Nations vote on suspending
nuclear tests while a ban is
under negotiation. General de
Gaulle and his Government
seem to have set their collective
jaws and decided to go ahead,
“Where the vote was valu-
able was in putting so many
smaller nations on the record
as opposing further nuclear
testing. It may well be that
East and West will never reach
a firm agreement on defining
the terms of a real ban, with
all its apparatus of policing and
inspection. But a de facto test-
suspension of indefinite dura-
tion is a tolerable result while
the talks drag on—as they have
dragged on for a year now.
“Meanwhile, the smaller
nations which lined-up against
further testing, and some of
the larger but poorer nations,
would be morally obliged to
hold-off nuclear testing. Not
that too many of them have
so far shown any desire to
possess a nuclear bomb, but the
reasons of prestige which have
swayed France and Britain
could operate in other coun-
tries. If they have made a
decided stand against testing
during negotiations the general
scramble for nuclear weapons
may be at least postponed.”


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON g,
OSUI.UVAJv
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating:
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
that for Malvern complaints
1 have to ring U double O.
I dial U double O, with no
result.
After a minute or so I again
dial U double O, but the
silence is unbroken.
A third attempt produces a
male voice. I ask whether my
phone is out of order. The
reply is “No.” I say, “I can-
not get Footscray.” “Try it
through Central,” says the
voice.
I dial B, which is the auto-
matic symbol for Central.
There is no reply.
I wait a minute. I dial B
again. This time a male voice
responds. I ask for the Foots-
cray number. The male voice
says “Dial FY7.” Before I
can get in another word the
voice has gone.
I am back at where I
commenced, but I am not dis-
couraged. I again dial B. This
time Central answers promptly.
I ask for the Footscray num-
ber.
“Dial FY,” once more comes
the advice, but before he has
time to get away I break in:
“I have tried it.”
“What’s that?” says Central.
Now I have him interested. I
can afford to take a breath. I
explain briefly and firmly that
I have tried several times to
get “FY7,” but without suc-
cess.
“Ring U double O,” cuts in
Central, and again disappears.
I am thankful that I am not
slipping back. I have at least
got as far as U double O on
the second journey toward
Footscray.
I dial B again and consider
tactics. I am afraid to ask
straight out for Footscray, so
I say, “I have tried several
times to get FY7”
“Ring U” breaks in the
voice, but I am quicker this
time, I forestall Central.
“No, no; wait!” I almost
yell. “I have also tried U
double O, and they say try
Central! ”
Appreciating the position at
last, Central says, almost in
aggrieved tones, “Well, I can’t
get Footscray from here, but
I’ll put you on to . . .” The
rest, unfortunately, is lost in
the rush to comply with my
wishes.
Then comes a female voice,
“Number please.”
“I’ve been trying to get
Footscray” I begin.
“Dial FY7” is the curt
response. The line is dead and
I am back again in Malvern.
I survey the position,
mobilise my forces, and now,
having a woman to deal with,
try new tactics. I must say
something out of the ordinary
or risk another charge of
“FY7” followed by “U double
O.”
Plainly what is wrong is the
“speeding-up” process leading
to too much automatic reac-
tion. So, as soon as the tele-
phonist hears the word “Foots-
cray” from an automatic tele-
phone, the formula is to say
“Dial FY7.”
I realise, therefore, that I
must not mention Footscray
until I am absolutely compelled
to do so. I shall begin by
softly saying, “My dear.” At
least that will command me a
hearing for a fleeting second,
even if only out of curiosity.
No woman can resist being
unattentive when an unknown
man sweetly says, “My dear!”
I dial “B.”
The reply comes from a male
voice. I was not prepared for
this and am somewhat dis-
organised. Losing my temper,
I demand:
“What’s wrong with every-
thing? I’m wanting Footscray
and”
Fatal word!
“Dial F . .
“I won’t dial FY7,” I shout
loudly enough for all Footscray
to hear. “I’ve tried it, and it
won’t work—at least not
tonight.”
“Ring U . .
“I won’t ring U double O,”
I break in. “I’ve tried that also,
and am told to ring you.”
“Wait a minute, and I’ll try
and get them for you. What
number?”
“Thanks awfully. Footscray
891.”
After a few minutes someone
says, “Is that Footscray 891?”
“No, but I want Footscray
891.”
Another brief period of
silence, and then a voice says,
“Finished?”
“I haven't begun yet.”
“What number are you want-
ing?”
“Footscray 891.”
“Dial . . .”
“I’ve been through all that
before. I can’t get results from
FY7 and U double O, and all
that rot, and now I’m pinning
my faith to Central.”
“What’s your number?”
“U 1882.”
“Hold the line.”
“Thanks.”
“Waiting?”, chips in a voice.
“So am I,” I respond in a
cheery tone, trying to show I
am not in the least put out.
“Number please?” comes the
voice very austerely—plainly
from a woman not to be trifled
with.
I heave a sigh and begin to
tell the story. Somehow I
cannot help saying that I want
“Footscray 891.”
That is where I again make
the fatal mistake. I should have
said some fantastic thing like
“Ting Ting double O Ping.”
That would have thrown my
gentle protagonist off her
guard, and before she had
fully recovered I could have
got safely past the FY7 and
U double O stages. However,
the damage was done.
At the sound of “Footscray”
the voice automatically says
“Dial FY7.”
Broken in spirit, and other-
wise demoralised, I hang the
receiver on the hook provided
for that purpose, fish out a
piece of paper and envelope,
and send the message by letter
to my friend at Footscray ...
■JVTo, as I said, nothing like
' that could happen today
(I hope). But perhaps —as I
also trust other pages in these
Memoirs might have done it
may ring a bell here and there.
[the end.]


Now in Book-form
"Duke" Tritton's
“TIME MEANS TUCKER”
V
3
ft
sail
r.
vr
This factual account of a shearer-drover’s experiences
in the sheds and on the track has proved to be one of
the most popular serials ever printed in “The Bulletin.”
Reader-demand for the story in book-form has been
constant.
It’s now off the press—and the price has been kept
down to 10s. a copy, post free.
This first edition (a large one, to satisfy the expected
demand from readers who recognise the book’s value as
a Christmas gift) is available only from “The Bulletin.”
PLEASE USE COUPON BELOW.
Available also over-the-counter from branch offices in
Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth.
ORDER FORM
Book Department,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please post copy/copies of
"TIME MEANS TUCKER"
by H. P. (“Duke”) Tritton
Amount enclosed
pleasure of the high-slung,
old-fashioned truck and Ma’s
brown, weatherbeaten old
hands curled firmly around
the wheel.
“Broke my gearbox on that
stretch once,” said the old
fellow. “The blinkin’ stones
just bounced the underneath
out of existence.”
He smiled to himself and
he heard Ma laugh.
“My blinkin’ underneath’s
so high from the ground,” she
said, “the stones would have
to be ruddy frogs to hit it.”
“Wouldn’t catch me on that
road,” said the younger man.
“Not for a million pounds.”
And Joe thought: Silly
fools! A few stones and
bumps, what do they matter?
He recalled the rolling hills,
green with mist-fed pasture,
backed by a jungle of rain-
forest, along the bends of the
Macleay, the wilderness of
hills east of Tamworth and
the tantalising glimpse of the
sea. And he knew that he
waited all the year for just
that moment, that second of
vision before the truck rolled
into the town of Dorrigo.
“You’re silent, mate,” said
the man. “What ya thinking?”
“Nothing,” said Joe. “Noth-
ing. Only I reckon the road
ain’t too bad.”
“That’s the boy, Joe,” said
Ma.
As he caught no more fish,
the afternoon began to drag.
By now Ma had finished the
prawns and was down to the
minnows. He looked across
at the opposite bank of the
stream and thought of the
ocean just a few hundred yards
beyond the further bank.
Perhaps he should have gone
surfing with Jimmy. As the
afternoon sun beat down on
his bare head and shoulders
he imagined the green, curling
waves and the white, hot sand,
black-specked with rutile.
“I bet they’d make a fortune
mining her,” Jimmy had said ;
“just like they do on the Gold
Coast.”
In a sudden rage Joe had
pummelled and punched his
friend ; he couldn’t explain
that he hated the thought of
their solitude of sand being
marred by the machines of
men.
The shadows grew longer.
“Guess I’ll have to give it
away,” said the man next to
him. “What about you, Bill?”
The old fellow nodded.
“It’s no good, Ma. He
won’t bite. Not in this wind.
You’d better fold-up, too.”
“Not me,” said Ma. “Joe
and me are good for an hour
or two yet, aren't we, kid?”
He agreed, patient, acqui-
escent, understanding Ma’s
need. He ran his finger in
delight against the grain of his
own fish and felt the prickle
of the ruffled scales. They
were alone now, he and Ma.
He slipped the shirt over his
shoulders as the sun began to
sink. The wind was cool even
through the thin cotton. Then
suddenly it dropped.
He looked at Ma as she
slipped the last minnow on the
hook.
“She’s got to get him this
time,” he thought. “She’s got
to get him!” He realised he
was praying.
TTe saw, even before she felt
it, the convulsive pull on
her line ; he caught the magni-
ficent wet gleam of the big
bream’s body as she lifted him
from the water, and for a
moment he felt regret that the
fish had to die.
But the tide had dropped.
The rock was 6ft. above the
pool. Halfway up, the big
fish in a gargantuan burst of
strength wriggled free and fell
back into the stream.
Ma lifted her empty line onto
the rock. Neither of them said
anything. In agony he looked
at the bait-tin. The empty,
dry stink struck his nostrils
in mockery. Ma looked at it,
too. Then they looked at one
another. He knew with cer-
tainty the fish had won. She
would never catch him now.
No, he thought, no ; you
can’t ask me. It’s my fish.
I won’t do it.
Then he knew he was wrong-
ing her. She wasn’t going to
ask him. She never would. It
was up to him alone. He
picked up his fish, now stiff
but still beautiful. For one
second he stroked it lovingly,
then quickly pressed it into
her hand.
“Here, Ma,” he said “Have
another go before he gets
away. No. good keeping this
tiddler. The big-’un will feed
both of us.”
Then he turned away . . .
“Guess I’ll pack-up, Ma,”
he said.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N Z.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Minister for the N.T. ?
I think that the administra-
tion of the JN.T. is an urgent
problem. The present Minister
is being asked to carry an
almost impossible burden;
he simply can't keep track of
all the problems daily arising
in the N.T., New Guinea and
elsewhere. Under existing
arrangements he has to
shoulder all the responsibility
and take all the kicks. The
kicks are numerous, if the press
is to be believed.
Many of the problems in the
N.T. stem from remote-control.
I spent three months there in
1950, and met a number of
folk whom I had known for
over 25 years. The complaints
on all sides were bitter, and
some (at least) appeared well
justified. From personal obser-
vation, as well as from letters
I get regularly, I know that
there has been a very marked
improvement in administration
generally, and for this the
Minister is entitled to credit.
But there are plenty of
problems yet to be ironed-out.
It seems obvious that the N.T.
alone has become a full-time
job for one man.
The Minister has also to
handle all the problems of New
Guinea, where, apart from
the white settlers, there are
over 300,000 natives speaking
a variety of languages. Part of
the island, too, is Trust Terri-
tory, held under mandate. The
responsible Minister has the
worry of reports to U.N. Aus-
tralia is spending more on
New Guinea than it is on the
N.T.; all told, the Minister for
the Territories is responsible
for a total annual expenditure
between the two of well over
£20,000,000.
The N.T. has become an im-
portant part of Australia. It
is showing signs of developing
a successful agricultural eco-
nomy ; its mineral output is
growing ; its pastoral industry
is out of the doldrums ; and
large sums of overseas capital
are being invested in stations
on the Barkly Tableland, with
more money promised.
It appears to me the N.T.
should be separated from the
Department of the Territories
and given a Minister of its
own. The Minister would have
more time to spend in the
Territory itself, instead of
making rush visits, and if he
was able to spend three months
each year in moving about the
place meeting people and dis-
cussing their problems I feel
sure everyone would be much
happier.
The Darwin of 1949 was a
quiet country-town; in 1959
it is a bustling city, an im-
portant air-base, and, in all
probability, destined to become
a naval-base as well. If
Commonwealth legislators will
not give the N.T. self-Govern-
ment, the least they can do is
to give it the services of a
full-time Minister. —D. C.
Tilghman (N.S.W.).
Housing Needs
Addressing the annual con-
vention of the Federation of
Co-operative Housing Societies
of Victoria, the Minister for
the Army (Mr. Cramer)
said :
We need to be careful that we
don't gear our building-industry
to an output that cannot be con-
tinuously sustained. If huge
amounts of finance are provided
and manufacturers build up to a
rate of output which would quickly
overcome the shortage, then, when
the shortage is overcome, the
industry could collapse. This is
quite a possibility and it would be
extremely dangerous for our
economic stability.
As depicted by the Minister,
it is an alarming prospect —
the building-industry, stimu-
lated by overdoses of finance,
expands enormously, then
collapses, bringing economic
ruin in its train.
Does this gloomy forecast
fit the facts? Even if the
accumulated backlog could be
overcome in two years (as
claimed by the Minister) by
maintaining the current rate
of housing-construction, it is
not axiomatic that there will
be a sharp decline in the
demand for dwellings.
Undoubtedly there will be
a very sharp rise in the
marriage-rate, resulting both
from the high birthrates of
the war and post-war years
and from the relatively low
marriage-rates of recent years.
Immigration will continue to
swell our population and to
augment our housing-needs for
many years to come, unless
there is a complete reversal of
national policy ; and there has
been relatively little replace-
ment of dwellings in post-war
years.
Even if finance is not made
available on more liberal
terms it seems clear that for
the next 10 years total funds
available for housing must be
increased appreciably if build-
ing is to keep pace with
demand. From all accounts,
housing-finance is by no means
as liberal in Australia as it is
in U.S.A. In the U.K. bor-
rowers can get 95 per cent, of
the total needed.
As the authority ultimately
responsible for controlling the
nation's spending, the Com-
monwealth Government will
have to choose between risk-
ing the dangers predicted by its
spokesman and the worse
alternative of allowing the
housing-lag to increase. —
Wusslean (Vic.).
Shopping Hours
Assuming the N.S.W.,Govern-
ment eventually grants one late-
shopping night a week, this will
be seized on by the Shop
Assistants’ Union as an argu-
ment for all-day closing on
Saturday. Shopkeepers will
then find the extra few hours
on Friday night a poor substi-
tute for Saturday - morning
shopping, and the public
generally will be greatly in-
convenienced.
What about a five-day week
for all employees, spread over
six days? The benefits from
such a change would be wide-
spread, embracing shop-
assistants, shopkeepers, the


Fadh ifi
Fiilwrc
Another school year is ending. Across
Australia, boys and girls in their thousands will be
stepping out into careers.
They have magnificent opportunities. But
more than favourable chance, more than the spirit
of youthful challenge is needed to enable our young
people to do the best for themselves and for their
country: They should choose their vocations well
and wisely; and in that their parents and teachers
should be giving them every guidance.
So much is lost in talent by accepting the
“accidental” in pursuit of a career; by taking a
position as it offers, and gradually losing that sense
of individual purpose which is seeded in all of us
and is brought out by teaching and training.
Many of us can recall how differently our
careers have shaped from the forms they took in
the years immediately after our school days. In
my own case, higher studies had been interrupted
by war. At the war’s end, flying was the business
I knew.
My inclination was to stay in England and
continue as a test pilot with an aircraft company.
It was work on which I was actually engaged when
my mother’s influence prevailed, the spent years
were overtaken, and the course of my lifework was
entirely changed.
It is supremely important to Australia that its
young minds should be marshalled well to the
nation’s cause. Every year the world’s population
is increasing by four-and-a-half times the total
numbers we have at present in this country.
Accompanying this surge of life is the necessary
upward adjustment of mental values to an amazing
new order in knowledge and achievement.
The obvious point in all of this is that
education is only beginning when the school years
end. Young Australians owe it to themselves to
go on to extended study, at whatever sacrifice to
their leisure time. And parents have a higher
responsibility now to encourage them towards
that end.
For only the best in trained and purposeful
intellects will be good enough to carry us on into
the future with justice to mankind and satisfaction
to ourselves.
// //czsfuxj*
7
general public and the trans-
port authorities. It seems in-
evitable that the present work-
ing-week of 40 hours will be
still further reduced within the
next few years ; and if shorter
hours are confined to five days
it will mean shops opening
later or closing earlier than at
present.
I doubt whether the same
volume of business would be
done in five days as in six. The
greater the opportunities for
buying, the more people will
buy. Few people will spend
money unless they want to,
and a Government anxious to
maintain full employment
should provide the widest
possible opportunities for
spending.
If the N.S.W. Government
seriously considered this ques-
tion it would realise that the
promise of an immediate five-
day week to all shop-assistants,
in return for a spread of shop-
ping-hours over six days,
would meet with general
approval. To make such a
change workable it would have
to be clearly understood that
overtime would be paid only
when the award-hours were
exceeded, and that work on
Saturday was part of an
ordinary five-day week. —
M.F. D. (N.S.W.).
Getting Down to Earth
One is forever reading of
soil - conservation activities ;
continued insistence on “top-
soil” implies that we must
cherish these few inches.
Wide acceptance of this doc-
trine seems to savor of
unnecessary delusion.
In his book The Astonished
Earth Humphrey Kempe tells
how he created a lush pasture,
sustaining a dairy-herd, sheep
and beef-cattle, on a dried-out
claypan on the banks of the
Murray River. Initial average
total salt-content of this
alkaline clay was approximately
0.3 per cent.; the accepted
upper limit of 0.25 per cent, is
considered dangerous for agri-
cultural activity. (These figures
come from an article by Sir
Cedric Stanton Hicks in
“Journal of the Soil Associa-
tion,” January, 1959.)
There have been other
notable examples of the
creation of good soil on
apparently “barren” earth,
and one has only to read such
books as The Challenge of
Landscape, by P. A. Yeomans,
to find out how it is done.
At present I’m developing a
1500-acre block near Wander-
ing (W.A.) —a good 20in.-25in.
rainfall pastoral and grain-
growing area. Some time ago,
1 tried to get water by boring.
I didn’t get any, but I learnt
—the hard way—quite a lot
about the soil. One bore-
hole went down 108 ft., and it
might still have been going
at 208 ft. Nothing startling
about this, but it was all
reasonably good soil.
A hundred feet of soil
underneath me! Gritty, and
clay and sand, but still soil.
So why so much accent on
soil “conservation”? Creation
of fertile topsoil from abundant
underground supply seems to
be more to the point. If you
can build new soil downwards,
on a salt-flat, what is there
to worry about if a few inches
of soil blows off perfectly
good land? —R. H. G. (W.A.).
Death of Conversation
When television first loomed
on our horizons many of my
friends vowed they’d never
have a set in the house. How-
ever, they have not only
bought sets but have become
slaves to them.
Unlike the radio, which you
keep in its place by bawling
louder than it, TV appears to
demand a more reverent
attitude ; probably because it
calls for visual as well as aural
attention. Anyway, you hesi-
tate to break-in on a TV-pro-
gramme with inconsequent
chatter, just as you refrain
from unnecessary talk in
church.
The result of a majority of
the public spending the greater
part of its leisure before the
TV-set should be obvious —a
death-blow is likely to de dealt
to the art of conversation.
The cynic, no doubt, will say
that the blow has already fallen,
and, conscious of wbat passes
for conversation on buses, in
trains, and in the street and in
company generally, one may be
tempted to agree. Older folk,
however, can remember when
intelligent conversation was
expected of all educated
persons—the days when there
weren’t so many distractions,
and before attending a dinner-
party or other social function
guests actually prepared what
they intended to say. Some
even went to the length of
jotting-down headings on their
stiff shirt-cuffs. This may have
been carrying things a bit far,
but all the same, the simplest
method of proving intelligence
(or lack of it) is through conver-
sation.
Constant preoccupation with
TY is responsible for actual


misdemeanors. Personal corres-
pondence is shamelessly neglec-
ted ; and a standard excuse for
failing to get a promised job
done is: “Sorry I haven’t got
round to it yet, old chap. But
you know how it is ; I’ve been
watching TV.”
Then there's the serious
business of reading. With TV
as a nightly institution, when is
time to be found for books? It
looks as if all our reading will
shortly be done at the break-
fast-table or when travelling to
and from work.
Not for an instant am I try-
ing to undervalue TV. It
certainly has a remarkable
educational and cultural
potential. My objection is that
people who should know better
surrender too much of their
Jives to it.
Only the young seem to be
showing any wisdom in this
matter. Faced on the one hand
with TV as a household institu-
tion, and, on the other, with
Intermediate, Leaving and
school exams, they show com-
monsense by rationing their
viewing. They choose an item
or two they enjoy, see them out,
then get back to the study.
Their parents, more often than
not, just continue to look.
Perhaps, one of these days,
when the P.M.G. suddenly per-
ceives that the race is in danger
of becoming entirely inarticu-
late, he too may see the wis-
dom of rationing and restrict
telecasts to so many hours a
“They copied the fish , and now us!”
day. This might result in
improved attendances at con-
certs and plays, increased read-
ing of good literature, corres-
pondence punctiliously atten-
ded to, and might even contri-
bute to an improvement in the
dying art of conversation. —
Maitri (N.S.W.).
New Guinea and U.N.
The Administrator of the
Territory of Papua-New
Guinea has been reported as
saying that much of the
criticism of the Papua-New
Guinea administration by the
United Nations mission which
visited the territory was un-
just.
If the Administrator feels
this is so, then he is the person
who should explain to the
Trusteeship Council just where
he considers the report to be
at fault.
However, owing to the policy
laid down by External Affairs,
a policy influenced largely by
the jealousy which exists be-
tween External Affairs and
Territories, neither the Admini-
strator nor his Assistant
Administrator will be per-
mitted to plead Australia’s
cause before the world organi-
sation.
As an example of how
divided the two Canberra
departments are in their views
one may mention the two
replies given to the question
asked by the Trusteeship
Council as to whether the Aus-
tralian Government considered
there was any land-shortage in
New Guinea, from the native
point of view. External Affairs
denied any shortage; Terri-
tories admitted there was some
problem.
The basic fault in the Aus-
tralian representation before
the Trusteeship Council is that
External Affairs does not avail
itself of the services or advice
of one or more of the
many competent persons avail-
able with long and meritorious
service in one or other of the
Australian territories.
The United Kingdom has
always had an ex-colonial
Governor as its permanent
representative on the T.C.,
and France and Belgium have
followed suit. But not one of
Australia’s permanent repre-
sentatives (all External Affairs
officers) has served in any Aus-
tralian territory, nor has he had
a Territories officer on his staff.
Just once a year, for a few
weeks when the annual reports
of New Guinea and Nauru are
before the T.C., an officer
from Territories goes to New
York as special representative
before the Council. Tangan-
yika has sent its Governor as
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 569
Across
I—This1 —This makes a party drink behind the financial editor’s
version of 9-across. (3, 5)
4—Mirth has hedges in ditches. (5)
8 — For all its proverbial deadness, it demands action! (4)
9 Nu. (9)
12— Wee sleekit beastie to employ Roy Rene (5)
13 — Unlissome (anagram). (9)
15 —Swede tailored garb for the widow. (5)
17— Oates gives us the bird. (5)
18 — One way to be sorry. (3)
19 — Blushing about coppers. (3)
20 — Love some ancient capital
belonging to us. (3)
21 — Drain of the Engadine
Tavern. (3)
22 — Jack says hail to Cayenne! (5)
23 — A rodent with obvious ego is
holding a lasso. (5)
24 — Rebellious noi-outs requiring
immediate attention. (9)
25 — It was true of Doris’s husband
once. (7, 3)
26 — Somewhere between Istanbul
and Tokyo. (4)
27 — Sign I’d arranged for a railway
loading area. (6)
28 — Agree to contribute to shark-
skiri. (8)
Down
1— Stendahl’s novel identification
of the Essendon football team.
(5, 2,4)
2 Hop up. (3)
3 They know some gear has the
odorless one. (11)
4 Changed where mockers identify
mockers of marriage. (4-8)
5 Will provides a retort for
gossipers. (3)
6 Crooks,, not to be confused with
4-down, accommodate surf. (13)
7 Go to court a girl. (3)
10 — Vetoed shop-worker died with-
out one. (13)
11— Killing beasts over one
country. (43)
14—Spare money which makes the
disorderly class rush up. (7, 4)
16 —Disorderly day sentry in one way
of getting to the point of publica-
tion. (6, 5)
25 Used to be cut up. (3)
26 — Aria given in English. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 568


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £89,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia: F. H. Egerton,
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY, Manager for Australia.
special representative ; Ruanda-
Urundi the same. The United
States invariably sends its High
Commissioner, and New Zea-
land’s High Commissioner for
Western Samoa is a familiar
figure. This year he was joined
by the Minister for External
Affairs.
Australia remains the one
Administering Authority, in the
whole history of the Trusteeship
Council, which has never sent
its Administrator or Assistant
Administrator to face Aus-
tralia’s critics in New York.
The Australian special repre-
sentative, a Canberra officer
who has held the post of
Director of District Services
and Native Affairs in Papua-
New Guinea, is indeed a most
competent officer; but if he
is more competent to inform
the T.C. concerning New
Guinea affairs than the Admini-
strator who is directly respon-
sible for them, then these two
officers should perhaps change
places. — Kassa (Q.).
Destruction of Trees
As “Dix” says (B. 18/11 /’59),
it may not be practical to
compel landholders to retain
trees on their properties. In
W.A. the authorities are find-
ing it hard even to permit
them to.
When a new housing-estate
is subdivided and about to be
cleared the surveyors try to
have at least one tree left on
every block, and at times
they’ve gone to considerable
trouble to indicate the trees
they wanted left. Unfortunately
the bloke on the bulldozer
finds it easier to take every-
thing as it comes, so he “mis-
reads” the instructions, and
the result is often an entire
settlement without a tree in
sight. Around Perth there are
Housing Commission settle-
ments of hundreds of houses
several years old, and there’s
still not a tree showing-up.
Even worse cases of depart-
mental vandalism occur when
P.M.G. gangs clear the fringes
of country highways prepara-
tory to taking their lines
through. In places you can
drive for miles through rich
country which once carried
some of the prettiest eucalypts
in the State or had been
covered with an attractive
forest of small, hardy shrubs,
and the road-fringes from
fence to fence are as bare as
the bitumen.
Follow close behind a
P.M.G. clearing-gang and
you’ll see the bush-life —quaint
little mountain-devils or unique
echidnas wandering about
aimlessly, lost and mystified,
completely bereft of food and
shelter. You won’t see birds.
The lucky ones have been able
to find refuge within flying-
range, but many—small birds
like robin - redbreasts and
willy - wagtails have been
blown to bits to satisfy the
".. .and take him carefully — he’s tricky !”
killer-instincts of an ape with
a .22 and a contempt for our
game-laws.
Spokesmen for the P.M.G.
usually express regret when
this wanton destruction is
pointed out to them, and some
State Housing Commission
officials are indignant ; but all
say the solution is beyond
them.
It shouldn’t be. P.M.G.
officials should have power to
suspend employees deliberately
denuding the country, and
gangers should be instructed
to report breaches of the game-
laws. The S.H.C., of course,
could insert in their contracts
a clause which would hold a
contractor to his instructions.
—Pieter Nuyts (W.A.).
Developing Campbelltown
Recent press-items have
shown that official recognition
of plans of the Cumberland
County Council to establish
satellite cities within 50 miles
or less of Sydney has begun
with detailed planning and
development of historic
Campbelltown (present popu-
lation, 5000).
The idea is to develop
the town with planned resi-
dential, industrial and recre-
ational areas to accommodate
some 20,000 workers and their
families within a matter of
years. Newcomers will find
more amenities and facilities
than in some other comparable
areas, due to the extensive
sewerage-works, and to the
local council’s policy regarding
subdivision of land being ex-
tended into the living-area.
Plans create a precedent in
local-government. Apart from
the normal minimum size
of 6000 squares in each
new allotment, and the neces-
sity for the subdivider to
lodge a bond to enable the
new streets to be tar-sealed
and kerbed and guttered, five
per cent, of the land, or the
equivalent in cash, has to be
donated to the council towards
the establishment of parks and
gardens.
The C.C.C. admitted in the
press that certain efforts to
control development around
the inner-city areas had to date
been unsuccessful. This time,
it appears, it has been spurred
into a new experiment by
threats of an inter-State enter-
prise to “throw the C.C.C.” by
establishing a satellite city not
far from Campbelltown at
Minto, and achieve what the
State Housing Commission was
unable to effect some years
ago.
This company had already
bought large farming-areas
in the Minto district, and there
has been mention of an un-
successful attempt to establish
a 120-acre factory between
Campbelltown and Minto.
Small wonder, then, that the
C.C.C. has been stirred into
some form of action.
Bennetts (N.S.W.).
Government P.R.
Roger B. Cook (B. '2/12/’59)
seems to overlook the fact that
every public-servant is, or is
expected to be, a public-
relations officer.
In the P.M.G.’s department
the principal burden of the
“Raise Your Sights Forum”
(which every officer, super-
visory or not, attends periodi-
cally) is public-relations.
Forums examine courtesy,
service and understanding be-
tween public-servants and
citizens, no matter how minor
the service might be. The
Commonwealth Bank and the
Taxation Department maintain
similar systems.
I don’t think “R.8.C.” means
by his phrase “the whole and
unadulterated truth will be
served to the public as it
should be” that a public-ser-
vant should disclose, willy-
nilly, information relating to
his department. By oath of
allegiance to the Crown, public-
servants are bound not to make
public either matters of policy
or administration with people
outside the particular depart-
ment.
In my experience, I’ve found
that the need for good relations
between public and public-ser-
vice departments seems to be
appreciated less by the former
than by departmental per-
sonnel. — Postscript (N.S.W.).


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
SUPERPHOSPHATE
From H.A. LINDSAY
TThe idea of using super-
phosphate in Australia,
first for growing grain-crops
and later for pasture-improve-
ment —one of the world’s agri-
cultural revolutions —originated
with three practical South
Australian farmers and a young
agricultural-college student.
Some of the soils in the
heavy-rainfall areas of South
Australia were so productive
that pioneer farmers used to
say: “Tickle them with a
plough and they laugh with a
harvest.” The first wheat sent
to Britain from these areas was
of such quality that it brought
a premium price of £3 16s. a
quarter instead of the £3 then
ruling.
There was comparatively
little of this type of land, and
subsequent arrivals had to
take-up land where the rainfall
was lower and the soil light
and sandy. First yields were
good here, but they decreased
with continual cropping. Soon
Australian lamb pro-
ducers will undoubtedly
be pleased to hear
of the Commonwealth
Government’s decision
to permit the Australian
Meat Board to spend
some of its trust iunds
to promote the sale of
lamb within Australia.
With overseas markets
for lamb continuing to
diminish, stimulation
of the home market has
become a matter of
dire necessity. Of
prime importance to
producers is their lamb
mortality rate since
every lamb saved means
increased production.
A wise course adopted
by successful breeders
to avoid many of the
dangers normally asso-
ciated with o 1 d-
fashioned methods of
castration and tailing,
is the use of Elastrator
Rubber Rings, the safe,
sure method of castra-
tion and tailing.
the same thing was happening
on the heavier soils of the
higher-rainfall belt, too.
At the time, most people
blamed the seasons. Today
it’s been recognised that all
"He tells a good story , but he's inclined to laugh
at his own jokes."
these soils had a low phos-
phorus-content which had
become exhausted after about
40 years’ production of crops
of wheat, barley and oats. The
nitrogen-level had also been
lowered, and nothing had
been done to replace these
important trace-elements.
The position was becoming
alarming, so the South Aus-
tralian Government founded
the agricultural college at
Roseworthy, 30 miles north of
Adelaide. At first, there was
strong opposition to the site ;
but the Government replied
that experimental work on
good land with a high rainfall
wouldn’t do much to help
farmers working lighter soils
in a low rainfall, while any
discoveries made on country
around Roseworthy would
apply also to better soils in a
wetter climate.
Roseworthy’s first principal
was Professor Custance.
When he retired in 1888 he
was succeeded by Professor
Lowrie, whose experience had
been gained in the wet climate
of Scotland. Elder, Smith and
Co. were then advocating the
use of basic slag, imported
from England, as a field-
fertiliser ; the Adelaide Chemi-
cal Co. also made a phosphate-
manure, and small consign-
ments of Lawe’s “super-
phosphate” were arriving from
Britain.
Professor Lowrie did not
agree with any of these. What
he called “artificial manures”
were all right in wet climates,
he said, but in the dry climate
of South Australia they would
“burn the heart out of the
land.” Meanwhile three enter-
prising farmers —Marshall, of
Wasleys ; Hawke, of Tippera ;
and Baker, of Dublin —were
getting impressive results with
their wheat-crops.
They collected bones from
every butcher within reach,
ground them up and distri-
buted the bonedust over the
paddocks from a seed-sower.
In those days this implement
was simply a long box with
small, spaced holes; it
depended wholly on vibration
caused when it was drawn over
rough ground to shake-out its
contents. Marshall made the
bonedust more readily avail-
able as plant-food by sprinkling
it with diluted sulphuric-acid.
Charles Deland, then a
student at Roseworthy, was
impressed by the increased
yields obtained on the farms
of Marshall, Hawke and
Baker, and by the growth of
fodder on ground which had
been under manured crop the
previous year. Every farmer
couldn’t possibly make his own
bonedust, because there was a
shortage of the raw material,
so Deland decided to see what
could be done with one of the
commercial phosphates.
With the backing of Hock-
ing, the college farm-foreman,
he persuaded Professor Lowrie
to let him put fertiliser on a
few experimental plots. Helped
by Oliver Marshall, son of the
Wasleys farmer, he then
assembled a seed-drill, which
had been sent to Roseworthy
for trial and left lying around,
and used it for spreading
manure when the plots were
sown in autumn.
Within a few. weeks of
sprouting, the manured plots
made such a contrast to those
which had had no fertiliser that
Lowrie had to alter his
opinion. 'But a Government
party was coming to inspect the
college, so, to avoid “questions
I’m not yet ready to answer,”
Lowrie had the manured plots
fenced with netting and grazed
to the ground by sheep.
They grew again later and,
when ready for harvesting,
their yields were treble those
of other plots. From being
a strong opponent of “artificial
manures,” Lowrie became an
advocate of their use —and
then had to listen to hidebound
farmers using his own former
arguments against them!
No amount of argument
could alter the fact that men
using superphosphate were
reaping heavier crops than
those who weren’t. Further,
instead of becoming sterile,
land on which a topdressed
crop had been grown would
carry a heavy growth of grass
and clover the following
season—and the next crop
grown on it gave an even
heavier yield.
With the introduction of
bare fallow into the rotation,
and the sowing of rustproof
wheats like Marshall’s No. 3
and King’s Early, the use of
superphosphate changed the
whole aspect of farming in
southern Australia. The wheat-
belt could be extended into
mallee-country with a rainfall
as low as llin.
In 1902 Professor J. D.


• :-K!
Si:?
M
Smooth, seamless walls and ceilings
that won't buckle or warp
Gyprock Plaster Board goes up quickly, cleanly
Are you looking for the best available lining for your new
timber-frame home? Its name is Gyprock Plaster Board.
Two sheets cover wall. Smooth, seamless walls and ceilings
of Gyprock Plaster Board can be put up swiftly, easily.
There are seven economical sheet lengths in the new 4'6"
width. Two sheets laid horizontally cover a standard 9'
high wall.
_ Gyprock is crack-resistant. It won’t buckle or warp.
Fire insurance less. Gyprock will not burn, so insurance
premiums are lower when it is used for all interior walls
and ceilings. Gyprock is vermin-proof, takes paint or wall-
paper most efficiently.
Gyprock costs no more than other similar lining materials,
yet provides the highest standard in quality and appearance.
For further information about Gyprock write or ’pnone your
nearest C.S.R. Showroom or contact your local distributor.
GYPROCK Plaster Board
Manufactured by CONCORD PLASTER MILLS
Marketed by THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
CSR396 Building Materials Division
Towar, an American, succeeded
Lowrie as principal of Rose-
worthy. He returned to Cali-
fornia two years later, but
before leaving he said to
Charles Deland: “I’ve learned
more from South Ausralian
farmers than I could teach
them —and have decided to
take this knowledge to
America.”
Since then Australian farm-
ing has come a long way ; but
the great change began 70
years ago, with the use of a
bag of phosphate-fertiliser
which the Adelaide Chemical
Co. had sent up for trial.
Firefighting
“R.H.G.”: By the time the
firefighters pictured by “Pieter
Nuyts” (B. 28/10/’59) had
managed to juggle 200 gallons
of water onto the truck by
the method he describes, the
air would be blue around the
water-tank and the fire well
away in the bush.
A quick-loading ramp is
what’s needed, and I’ve found
the best to consist of two
parallel rails sloping up towards
the rear and spaced to allow a
table-top truck to back easily
between them. Side-rails--
each composed of, say, three
uprights with a 16ft. length of
10 x 5 decking checked-in and
on edge (edges well above each
upright-top), and with cross-
braces of 3 x 1{ to keep the
rail steady— must be bolted
throughout.
The front of the ramp must
be lower than the height of the
tray on an ordinary truck, but
the rear well above the height
of the tray.
A 200-gallon tank is then
mounted on a sleeper-frame,
with runners (parallel to the
truck-body, but not fastened
to it) checked-in at all four
ends to allow solid wandoo
poles to slide through and still
be clear of the running-edge of
the frame.
The tank is filled, and the
truck, complete with tank,
frame and poles, is backed into
the open ramp. The poles,
sticking through the frame each
side, clear the ramp-runners at
first. As the truck goes gradu-
ally further back and its tray
starts to fall below the level of
the runners the poles take the
weight of frame and tank and
transfer the outfit onto the
ramp-runners, where suitable
chocking-devices can hold it.
It can be pushed back as far as
necessary simply by using the
truck’s “fowlhouse,” or frame
behind the cab, before chock-
ing into position. The empty
truck can then be driven away.
To load the outfit takes only
a couple of seconds. The truck
is driven backwards into the
ramp, the chocks are released
and, since the runners are
greased (preferably with proper
skid-grease), the whole contrap-
tion slides down. It is helped
along until its weight grips the
truck-body, carried forward
until the poles can be whipped-
out —and, bingo, you’re in
business!
Rabbits
“Mulga”: To speed patrol-
ling, the Leichhardt Rabbit
Board, in Western Queensland,
is replacing horse-patrols by
motor-transport and has bull-
dozed the track along the
650-mile fence to allow the
vehicles to negotiate the
rugged stretches safely.
Even with constant patrol-
ling some rabbits have found
their way through the fence,
though trapping and the spread
of myxomatosis has kept them
in check. The chairman of
the Co-ordinating Board has
declared that there is no evi-
' dence that rabbits are develop-
„ ing immunity to the virus,
although many graziers say
they are not so sure about it,
and the C.5.1.R.0., recognising
that immunity might be
developed—as happened in
South America, where the
disease started —has been try-
ing to find a poison to keep
the pests in check.
They have found that
sodium-fluoroacetate, popularly
known as 10-80, is deadly to
the rabbit. Developed in the
United States as a rat-poison,
this light, white powder is
tasteless and odorless, and will
give a kill of from 90 per cent,
to 99 per cent. It has been
used with effect in Tasmania,
Victoria and Western Aus-
tralia.
“Zorok”: The N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture
lately held a “1080”-poison
school at Cooma, where
experts B. Young and R. Stark
urged all rabbit-inspectors to
try to persuade Pasture Pro-
tection Boards to use “1080.”
The new poison is not the
complete answer to rabbit-
eradication, though it is claimed
to be a powerful weapon which,
used intelligently, could not
fail to take great toll.
The poison cannot be made
available to property-owners in
its pure form. P.P. Board
rabbit-inspectors will be the
only ones allowed to mix and
prepare the baits.
However, there’s little risk
involved for humans. For a
person to get a fatal dose he
would have to eat at one sitting
20 rabbits —hides, insides and
all.
If anyone unknowingly ate
a “1080”-poisoned rabbit he
would not notice anything at
all, and would think he had
been eating a healthy Brer.
Precautions must be taken
with dogs, though—they are
more susceptible even than
rabbits. As some sort of com-
pensation for the risk with
dogs, “1080” will kill foxes.
Other animals have varying
degrees of susceptibilty. Birds
and fowls have most resistance
to it, so farmers have no worry
on that score.
An advantage of “1080” is
that, since it is odorless and
tasteless, rabbits do not associ-
ate their sickness with the bait.
Rabbits usually wander away
from the trail to die, and so
do not frighten other rabbits
from taking the bait.
Poisonings tried at the
Cooma school proved that
“1080” was an effective agent.
It is necessary to keep stock
out of a paddock when a trail
is laid, and they should not be
put back in for at least six
weeks, unless the trail has been
well covered.
Heavy rain will wash a trail
out, and after, say, a downpour
overnight it would be safe to
put stock back next day.
Two New Wheats
“North”: Two new varie-
ties of wheat have been deve-
loped at the experimental
farm on Queensland’s Darling
Downs. One, known as Hopps,
was bred by the late R. E.
Soutter, who introduced many
of the State’s best varieties. The
other, Kenora, is the first bred
by David Rosser, Soutter’s
successor. Both are resistant to
rust.
Hopps is a dual-purpose
variety, useful for grazing or
grain. Equal to Lawrence in
most respects, though with
better resistance to drought and
a shorter straw, it is awned and
does not shatter. It is easily


m
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
threshed, and the fine straw
makes excellent grazing, while
the white grain is medium-
strong and much sought after
by millers. It matures slowly
and, sown in April or May,
will give good grazing and then
yield a big crop of grain. In
tests over seven years, Law-
rence yielded an average of
24.8 bushels to the acre, while
Hopps returned 27.2 bushels.
Kenora is a quick-maturing
grain-variety. A high yielder,
it averaged 38.5 bushels an acre
in tests in 1956-58, occasionally
producing 52 bushels to the
acre. Like Hopps, it holds its
grain well and yet is easily
threshed. The glumes are
smooth, and harvesters are not
subject to “harvesting itch.”
It is a medium-strength variety,
with flour-characteristics like
Puora.
Cabbage-pests
“Windy”: Real success in
growing cabbages and cauli-
flowers demands constant vigil-
ance against cabbage-moths
and aphids, because these pests
never cease their attack from
the moment seedlings appear
above the ground. Modern
insecticides are good, though,
and residual-acting chemicals
retain their lethal powers for
days after they are applied as
spray or dust.
Before setting the plants out
into their permanent beds give
them a good spraying with a
i per cent, solution of endrine.
If the weather is damp and hot,
and grubs are bad, weekly
sprayings may be necessary,
and if aphids appear on the
seedlings use B.H.C. in a .03
per cent, solution. Make sure
that these sprays wet the plants
thoroughly, but avoid forcing
liquid into the leaves. A light,
misty spray is best.
Once plants are out in the
beds the strength of sprays
used for grubs and aphids can
be given until a „ fortnight
before the vegetables are
picked. It’s important to stop
then, so that the spray has time
to become inert before the
vegetables are cooked. Even
so, it’s best to wash all sprayed
vegetables before they are
eaten.
Wear old clothes when using,
these sprays, and wash
them immediately afterwards,
because the chemicals can be
absorbed by contact. Also,
operators and all who come
into contact with these sprays
should wear gloves and a
mask, or at least a handker-
chief over the face.
Home Markets
“Pieter Nuyts”: Overseas
markets for Australian eggs
and apples are dwindling
alarmingly, so producers of
both commodities will have to
aim at selling most of their
produce domestically.
The Australian public would
consume at least twice as many
eggs as now if prices were right
and eggs attractively presented.
Prices could be put right by
pruning production-costs and
marketing only high-quality
eggs. A housewife who now
has to pay an exorbitant price
for anaemic - looking eggs
would accept the same price
as right for eggs that could be
relied upon for quality;
That reliability is important,
though; it must be 100 per
cent, because on crook egg in
1000 can mean one customer
—usually one household —
“off” eggs for months.
Prices that are ruinous for
a farm that’s badly managed
can be reasonably satisfactory
to a man who runs his chooks
efficiently, cuts-out all waste,
and culls heavily.
The only Way to make eggs
thoroughly reliable is to pass
every single egg over a grading-
floor. However well-equipped
a farm may be, its owner can
never be certain that his eggs
are as fresh as he thinks. They
may have features like blood-
spots which do not improve
sales —in fact, the ordinary
producer would probably be
astonished at the way blemishes
are shown-up by the grading-
floor lights. Anyone whose
eggs have been down-graded
ought to go and watch his
consignment being candled —
and then go home and start
culling.
To get all eggs to the
grading-floor would involve
abolishing the permits which
some Westralian producers are
given to allow them to sell
part of their output direct to
customers. They have to fur-
nish returns and pay certain
costs, but the saving is enough
to make the system attractive
to them and their customers.
Many customers imagine that
“board” eggs are staler than
those bought direct, although
the reverse is actually true,
because the “board” egg is
more likely to have been kept
in cool storage and is usually
in better condition and less
liable to blemish.
The worst feature of this
permit-system is that it leads
to blackmarketing. This can
never be completely prevented,
but it might be reduced if the
system were abolished. The
backyard producer may be dis-
regarded—no efficient poultry-
farmer has anything to fear
from him . . .
Fruitgrowers still have some
overseas markets, but increased
competition is bringing lower
prices and more stringent
import - regulations. At the
same time not as much fruit
is eaten in Australia as might
be, partly because so much
inferior fruit comes into the
shops. To some extent this
is due to the fact that the best
fruit is exported, but the main
cause of such small home-
consumption is insufficient!
thinning and general mis-
management.
Many growers do not recog-
nise the need for thinning.
If too much fruit is left on
a tree, it will all set small, but
the drain on the tree will be
heavy. A tree heavily over-
fruited will produce less fruit-
flesh than one that has been
thinned, and will grow more
kernels —which are just waste,
and which damage the tree.
A South African expert
reckons that a good crop of
peaches should run at 30 fruit
to each inch of the tree's trunk-
circumference ; that is, for
example, 600 fruit on a tree
with a trunk 20in. in circum-
ference. This figure will vary
with the type of tree, but gives
something handy to work on.
Like egg-producers, orchard-
ists will develop the home-
market only by selling top-
class fruit all the time. This
may involve reintroducing
some of the regulations,
imposed during the war, with
the addition of minimum sizes
in all fruit marketed. These
sizes may have to vary with
the season, but could be deter-
mined well in advance and
must be based on adequate
thinning.
Some Sheepdogs
[From R. A. McCallum]
'"To my mind —and I had 25
years dealing with them —
there’s no animal more
naturally intelligent than a well-
bred sheepdog. All that sheep-
dogs need, according to my
experience, is to be taught to
come to heel and sit down when
required the rest comes
naturally to them.
While in the bush I preferred
general-purpose dogs to fancy
workers, because on a station a
man usually goes out with his
dogs to get something done as
quickly as possible, not to waste
time dodging about with a few
sheep.
Most dogs have their own
peculiarities, and I found that
much could be learned by care-
fully watching the antics of a
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(3/12/’59)
Queensland should have good general rains during
January, with heaviest falls in the coastal areas, the Penin-
sula and the north-western districts. Flooding is indicated
in the south-western, south-eastern, central and northern
divisions.
N.S.W. should also have good general rains during
January, with heaviest falls in the northern half of the State
and particularly on the North Coast, where flooding is likely
as it is also in the southern divisions.
There should be reasonably good rains in most of
Victoria during January, with best falls in the central and
north-eastern divisions. However, the Mallee and Wimmera
may have only light patchy rains.
Rainfall will probably be patchy in South Australia
during January, varying from light to good, though isolated
heavy falls may occur in the interior. Similar rains are likely
in February.
Good general rains should occur in Western Australia
during January, possibly associated with a willy-willy off
the north-west coast in the middle of the month.
LENNOX WALKER


'Phenovis' Brand of Phenothiazine
Save
V m
per
gal.
Drenching costs
with high purity
POWDER
the most widely
used sheep drench
in Australia!
The new 21-lb. pail is the most economical
pack to use in the field. It is made up
of 3 separate sleeves enabling the grazier
to mix either 7, 14 or 21 lbs. Each 7-lb.
sleeve makes 1 •/s gallons of drench for
only 61/6 per gall. ... a savina of
11/- per gall.
EE
14-lb. LEVEL
7-lb. LEVEL
ass
if
MMUTV
OVIS
*P«CTIVI PM*** :J5
STOMACH imt«T!*A I ’.=2?
5 st omach ( imtesti^, l
. *•***■ WORHS ,N .
AND CATTU* .
PHE.93X.5973
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
r icr
pup and following them up. A
nervous, highly-strung pup can
often be improved if put to play
with the youngsters —but not so
often that it gets too fond of
playing and pays more attention
to that than to working. Some
pups are whip-shy or gun-shy,
but can be cured if you fre-
quently crack a whip near
them. One dog I had loved
a whipcrack or a gunshot, but
a clap of thunder would send
him for his life towards the
homestead, there to get under
a bed and stay for the rest of
the day unless pulled out.
All my good dogs came from
a bitch that, as a miserable
small pup, had followed me
home from town one night. I
found her lying down the
paddock next morning with
the horse I had been riding,
and, as no one answered my
ads., I decided she must have
been lost by someone passing
through, because she had a
couple of yards of clothesline
tied round her neck. Where
or how she was bred I could
never discover; she looked
like a Border Collie-cross.,
black with white collar and
shirt-front, and had one ear
pricked, though the other
would stand-up only in
moments of excitement. This
bitch was a very shy breeder,
having only one litter a year,
and then never more than three
pups. I kept the breed until
1 came to live in town, when
I gave one of the bitch-pups to
a friend who was going to
Queensland. Some time later,
when I saw him in Roma, he
told me he had refused as
much as £5O for her (a lot of
money at the time). Like all
the breed she never had more
than three at a litter.
Occasionally I used to judge
sheepdog-trials at country
shows, and once I came in
for a lot of abuse over a
decision I gave. The man
awarded second-prize tore-up
the ticket, threw the ribbon on
the ground and abused the
steward who had handed them
to him. The steward com-
plained to me, and I insisted
that a special meeting of
the committee should be
called and this competitor
disqualified, because, if he had
any grievance, he should have
come to me and not let-off at
the steward, who was only
doing his duty. When the
meeting got together, quite a
number of outsiders turned-up
to support the bloke who had
made the complaint. They
said they were sure I had made
a mistake. However, I pointed
out that the prize was given
for the dog completing the
course within a limited time —
no question of points came
into it —and as the dog I gave
the prize to was the only one
to complete the course, I had
no option. The committee
decided that I was right, the
man who had abused the
steward apologised, and so the
matter ended.
I had one dog that hated
riding in cars, but if I went
out in one he would follow
behind and oblige me to keep
stopping to let him catch-up,
though even then he would
never submit to being caught.
This dog also hated water and
would never go in if it could
possibly be avoided. Coming
to a pool he would lean right
out to lap the water, not even
wetting his toes. But he was
the most useful dog I had, and
no matter how hot the weather
was he would work all day.
Crosscuts
“Stao”: Dry as this summer
has been in western Victoria,
oats sft. high were grown
near Horsham, with crops
further west at Kanagulk
going up to 6ft. on clay soil.
“Porque”: Wheatfarmers in
the Victorian Mallee find pigs
a profitable sideline. One of
them recently sold for £43 a
sow from whose progeny—
which included one litter of
18 —he had already realised
£500!
Only dehorned or poll
cattle will be eligible for
exhibition at Sydney’s 1961
Fat Stock and Carcass Show
and Sales. A regulation to that
effect will be included in the
schedule of prizes for the 1960
Show.
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
Wool Type Card. This Card
has many uses—as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered—in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed,
or in the paddock, with a
type, perhaps, outside the
main run of your experience.
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing.
A comparison study, using
the Bradford Wool Type
Card, eliminates the possi-
bility of error. Your name
and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to
“The Bulletin” will send one
on its way.


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Souter’s Cats
With, no doubt, a few delighted
meows and an arching of collective
backs, the Souter Cats (B.
25/11 / ’59) have found a home
where, our inquirer writes to say,
“they will, be treasured.”
Wants
Copy of Sinclair Lewis’s Elnvpr
Gantry. —69o9.
1950 Land/Rover repair-manual.
—6910.
Anyone interested in Henry
Lawson’s On the Track, a collection
of short-stories published by Angus
and Robertson 1909? Also book
containing about 80 Phil May
“Punch” sketches. Both in fair
condition. —6911. •
Does Anybody Know?
Anything of Fred Priest, last heard
of at Caboolture (Q.)? He was
at Jerilderie some years ago, and
left in 1956. Friend inquiring.—
6912.
In my reading about Switzerland
there is mention of the Gotthard,
“one of the most formidable
fortifications in the world.” Does
anybody know what these forti-
fications consist of and what military
value they have at present?
Information Sought '
-v /
Details of “Rorke’s Drift”?
An incident in the Zulu War
(1879). Background to the incident
was as follows: In January, 1879,
a British force under Chelmsford
invaded Zululand. Chelmsford
had a force of 5000 Europeans and
8200 natives; Cetewayo, the Zulu
chief, an army of 40,000 men.
Chelmsford divided his force into
three columns to converge on
Ulundi. On January 22 the centre
column (1600 Europeans, 2500
natives), which had advanced from
Rorke’s Drift, was encamped near
Isandhlwana; on the morning of
that day Chelmsford moved out
with a small force to support a
reconnoitring party. After he had
left, the camp (in the charge of
Colonel Durnford) was surprised
by 10,000 Zulu. The British were
overwhelmed and almost every man
killed, the casualties being 806
Europeans and 471 natives; the
reconnoitring party returned to find
the camp deserted.
The following day they retreated
to Rorke’s Drift. The garrison
stationed there, under Lieuts. Chard
and Bromhead, numbered about 80
men of the 24th Regiment. Between
30 and 40 men were in hospital.
Late in the afternoon they were
attacked by about 4000 Zulu. On
six occasions the Zulu got within
the entrenchments, but were driven
back each time at bayonet-point.
At dawn the Zulu withdrew, leaving
350 dead; the British suffered 17
killed and 10 wounded.
* * * *
Information on the strangling-
fig?
The strangling-fig is one of about
60 species of fig found in Aus-
tralia ; approximate number of
species in various parts of the
world has been computed as 1000.
The majority of fig-trees start life
as epiphytes, their seedlings grow-
ing in the fork of the branches, or
in cracks or wounds of various
other kinds of trees. Aerial roots
are then sent out: first long,
slender, flexible roots, which gradu-
ally increase in length and strength
and finally reach the ground. These
aerial roots keep on growing in
thickness and strength, branching
and rebranching until they even-
tually form a lattice-like growth that
crushes the life out of the tree on
w'hich the seedling fig has started
its life —hence the term “strangling.”
The host-tree gradually decays, and
its rotting wood arid bark give food,
which is absorbed by the roots of
the fig. The whole of the trunk
of most figs, with the exception
of a small section near the top of
the / tree, is thus formed of these
aerial roots.
* * * *
Origin of the word “station,” as
used in a pastoral sense ?
Use of the term in Australia
dates from the early days of
squatting. Originally it referred to
the owner’s house and outbuildings
of the pastoral holding; it now
more generally signifies the w'hole
property and all that goes with it.
Stations are distinguished as sheep-
stations or cattle-stations. Among
the larger stations are Victoria
River Downs, which in 1956 had
an area of 5494 square-miles,
running approximately 72,000 head
of cattle; Brunette Downs (4730
square-miles, 50,000 cattle); and
Auvergne (3948 square-miles, 30,000
cattle). Alexandria was a good
deal larger, having an area of
11,262 square-miles. All of these
properties are in the N.T., and the
land is held under pastoral lease.
Brief Answers
B’.J.: Bach’s “Six Brandenburg
Concertos” were dedicated to the
Margrave of Brandenburg. It is
almost certain Bach never heard
them performed... .G.T.: Write to
the Society of Australian Genealo-
gists, 91a Phillip Street, Sydney.
There is a fee for this type of
work... .W.M.: No records avail-
able. .. .8.8. W.: Unless stamped,
addressed envelope accompanies
contributions material will not be
returned, and in such a case gener-
ally is not acknowledged in the
“Answers to Correspondents” sec-
tion... .8.R.: (1) Born September
5, 1818, on Guernsey, Channel
Islands. (2) English nationality.
(3) Arrived in Sydney when about
21, in March, 1840. Appointed an
assistant-surveyor on July 27.
Explored and charted river-systems
in Portland Bay area. Late in 1845
selected by Sir Thomas Mitchell
as second-in-command of his
northern expedition.:. .H.E.F.:
Unable to locate words of poem.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
C.Y.F.: Blackboy poem too
prosy... .J.M.: That's a remark-
ably wide poem... .N.G.: We like
the thought of “true happiness
galoire” R.M.: Old Bob never
gets around to his story... .H.L.:
“The Preselection Committee'’
turned down by the preselection
committee D.P.E.: Thank you
for explaining to us that “garbage-
can” means “city” in your
“Citiode”; and now go:
The roar of the crowd in the garbage-
can
Is a jiasty gnaw on the ear,
Pervading all is the hum of its heart,
The beat of its heart is fear.
. ...J.C.: A good idea but too
incoherent and not enough to the
point... .R.E.: We put out “Bush-
fire” Kali: And that one, too
....K.J.W<: Where did you get
the idea that authors are never
moved by “the scintillating sarcasm
ot the pseudo-critic”? .... M.G.T.:
No kennel here for the old dog
nor stable for the old horse....
Jane: No, Jane... .M.F.: it’s well
written. Flard for us to say more
than that till you’re 01der....
M. 8.: It doesn’t really communi-
cate the enchantment... .A.F.M.;
No loitering in Hyde Park....
R.P.: “I hath loved many times.”
Hath you, indeed? Well, hath your
luck, then... T.J.W.: Thanks. It
is a ballad b'y W. T. Goodge....
M.D.: “Herewith a poem l wrote
travelling Ballarat - Melbourne.”
Glad you didn’t go on to Adelaide.
....N.K.C.: It has atmosphere
and feeling, but for Heaven’s sake
don’t type all your “l’s” as capital
“I’s” —how do you expect anyone
to respond properly to “The robber
gull’s loud-shrieked derision”?
THE HOLLIDAY
“ Interesting, but I don't think I'd like to BE one!"


New Books
ty
Australians
KNOW-HOW IN THE SURF
by John Bloomfield
Out to the last breaker, how to deal with
dumpers, the use of boards and skis,
training for competitions—this first-ever
book (by a surf champion) will help
experienced surfers as well as the ten-
year-old who wants to learn to shoot
waves. Well illustrated. 25/- (post 1/3)
FEAR DRIVE MY FEET
by Peter Ryan
A boy of eighteen, patrolling isolated
parts of wartime New Guinea close to
Japanese lines, found that fear was
always with him. How he matured and
learnt endurance and courage from the
hazards of jungle warfare is told in this
true story. “. . . steadily increasing
tension. It mounts into a terrific
climax.” (The Bulletin). 20/- (post lOd.)
At all booksellers now!
ANGUS & ROBERTSON
LTD.,
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
much the same as Kensington, the
other lodgers all have their delightful
particularities, and these Miss Row-
lands observes with an eye as tender
as it is amused.
So, all those who have been to
England and all those who are about
to go, and that means everybody —but
particularly women readers —will un-
doubtedly enjoy “Why Can’t the
English?”; and it must be said that,
for a change, it is pleasant to have
someone from Australia inspecting
those peculiar English instead of the
usual person from England inspecting
us peculiar Australians.
James on Wine
After nearly a hundred years wine-
drinking has come in again and
“inmanship” demands a certain know-
ledge, so A Word Book of Wine s
Walter James (Georgian House) has
come out at the right time.
Written by a journalist who aban-
doned his craft to make wine in his
own Australian vineyard and then
travelled through the European wine-
countries looking at other people’s vine-
yards, the book is a wine-dictionary.
It defines most words describing wines,
gives names of grape-varieties and
vineyards, and produces a lot of techni-
cal information about making, serving
and storing wines. Australian wines,
as Well as those of North and South
Africa and the Americas, are included
in what is primarily a list of European
varieties.
It is an entertaining book for the
general reader and wine-bibber, but
the seasoned connoisseur can hardly be
expected to swallow all of it without
some protest. It is, of course, very
wicked of Walter James to insert
entries about such vile potions as cider,
gin, perry, rum and whisky, and even
a dissertation about cocktail-parties,
in a book about wine; and there are
other lighthearted irrelevancies such as
the note on Diogenes—“ When asked
what wine he liked best, Diogenes
replied, ‘The other fellow’s.’ ” Mrs.
Beeton is quoted inaccurately on the
subject of corkscrews, according to
this reviewer’s (1891) edition.
But more serious complaints are that
there is not a word about the famous
champagnes such as Charles Heidsieck,
Pol Roger and Veuve Cliquot: indi-
vidual mention of two Hunter River
vineyards is skimpy, and Mount
Pleasant, though mentioned in the
general item, gets no individual mention
at all; and finally the author does less
than justice to Australian brandies,
some of which are just as good as the
French.
R.G.
Idress Again
Christmas would not be Christmas
without a new Idriess. The Tin
Scratchers (Angus and Robertson) is
his 46th book, and if one hasn’t been
reading a new volume every Christ-
mas since 1913 that is only because
sometimes he turns them out two a
year.
Idriess is a born yarn-spinner,
and anything, if you have lived the
right sort of life and have a retentive
memory, will make a good yarn:
whether it is as notable a scene as
Charlie Goodall, the Bad Boy of the
Two Mile, galloping-in full of whiskers
and rum to wake Cooktown up to its
proper legendary wildness, or some-
thing as simple as a turkey crossing
the track.
“The Tin Scratchers” is all about
the time when Idriess, with six pounds
in his pocket, went up to Cooktown
in the hope of finding gold and,
warned-off the wilderness by one of his
invaluable informants who told him
about crocodiles, malaria, starvation
and perishes, took to tin-mining. It
ranges from pleasant, easy pictures of
Cooktown by night—
The dim figures of Chinese
storekeepers, in white singlet, in
bloomers and sandals, lazed in cane-
chairs outside their shops, with their
chattering womenfolk in those long,
quaint, blue pantaloons—
to the wilder landscape of the tin-
fields:—
No women up in those cool
heights with only soughing winds for
company ; barely a dozen gnarled
old roughnecks poked away in shel-
tered places here and there in bark
and slab huts... .Everything seems
grey, grey scrub, grey mists, grey
trees, grey granite rocks, the feel-
ing of a greyness of age.
It is full of information about Cape
York, full of stories of the miners and
the aborigines—Big Jack Elliott of
Lode Hill bringing the water around
the precipices from Home Rule Falls;
Bert Hislop, the “blue-blooded”
Englishman who became king of three
tribes of blacks; the black-gins settling
their little arguments by knocking each
other’s brains out with fighting-
sticks —and it is, in short, Idriess.
A Good Year
When Angus and Robertson’s annual
“Australian Poetry” anthology has one
of its good years one never quite knows
whether to give the credit to the editor
or the contributors.
What the editor has to avoid, if the
collection is to have a worth-while
stature, is too much mediocrity and
too many small poems which, however
excellent they may be in their own
right, can nevertheless give the impres-
sion that Australian poetry is wholly
devoted to the lyric; and both these
difficulties simultaneously disappear
when there are poems of genuine sub-
stance available to fill a considerable
proportion of the anthology—and
when the editor has the acumen, good-
will, generosity or whatever it takes
to put them in.
So Nancy Keesing can take her due
share of credit for Australian Poetry,
1959, which is one of the best issues
to date; but her success was pretty
well assured from the start because
Robert D. Fitz Gerald’s powerful and
tight-wrought image of Australian
nationhood, “The Wind at Your
Door,” was available.
She has also been able to get Francis
Webb’s “The Sea,” which conveys a
similar impression of strong poetry
welling-up from underground sources:
all the stars patter together,
A heathen tongue, while our home-
sick story-telling fires
Are Hellas mouthing, burning;
Little, dangerous men attack without
warning;
We loot and kill, singing hopelessly
in the foreign morning.
And in a lighter vein, but still impres-
sive in its smooth and sustained flow
o Continued on page 58)


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
This is the season of the year when
one must learn to live on orange-drink,
sandwiches, lamingtons and Christmas-
cake, or perhaps on cocktails, fish-fingers,
oyster-patties and Christmas-cake, or
on beer, peanuts, sausage-rolls and
Christmas-cake, or on champagne,
canapes, cashews and Christmas-cake,
or on barbecue-steak, billy-tea, ants and
Christmas-cake, or on espresso-coffee,
wafer-biscuits, shish-kebabs and Christ-
mas-cake.
For the Christmas parties are swinging
into action now with increasing vigor,
and, however much they vary in other
respects, they all have one thing in
common. A Christmas-cake? Well, that
is minor and symbolic. What is charac-
teristic of them all is a general feeling
of goodwill and a desire to wind-up the
year in an atmosphere of merriment and
happiness.
☆ ☆ ☆
Like the lady in the song, everyone
wore a white gardenia at the party given
by the Orchestral Committee to say
“Thank you” to members of the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra for giving us so
much enjoyment during the year. There
one could see at close quarters the
musicians one had watched at admiring
concert-distance over the months—
Blodwen Hill without her viola, Rosa-
mund Cornford without her ’cello, Clare
Fox (newcomer from Adelaide and
foreign parts), violinist Jennifer James
(charming in natural shantung and
Kelly-green accessories), Irene Pang (who
won the instrumental section of the
A.B.C.'s Vocal and Concerto Competi-
tion this year), tall, glamorous Vanessa
Payn (in blue linen), Adrienne Throsby
and all the ladies of the social committee.
The president, Lady Lloyd-Jones, wel-
comed the guests with Sir Richard Boyer
and Mrs. A. H. Chartres.
P.S. There was a very nice Christmas-
cake.
☆ ☆ ☆
Then on to the Christmas “do” of the
Gallery First-Nighters, which was a
buffet-dinner for 400 at Anthony Hor-
dern’s Aranda Room. This group has
been organised for only three years, but
there are already 900 members, who
form the nucleus of a wide section of
Sydney people genuinely interested in
live theatre. It was interesting to hear
from Ralph Crago and Gwynne Knight
(who welcomed guests to the party) that
Sydney’s most popular theatre shows
are ballet, opera and sophisticated
comedy. Others present included Mrs.
Frank Dabbs, Mr. and Mrs. Lillford and
Mrs. Thelma Griffin. Providing enter-
tainment was that grand comedian Reg
Quartly, helped by George Brown, Betty
Wilson and Merlini.
Nicest Christmas greeting so far is
that on the card of the Royal Com-
monwealth Society. It is an extract from
the Queen’s 1958 Christmas broadcast
and contains the wholesome reminder ;
“Christmas is a good time to remember
those around us who are far from home,
feeling perhaps strange and lonely.”
Not so nice is the greeting on the
front page of “Journalist.” It runs ; “A
Merry Christmas to All. Levy will rise
by 135.”
Lovely young Australian dancer
Marilyn Jones is a principal-ballerina
with the lately re-formed Borovansky
Ballet, which opened its new season at
the Empire during the week. Marilyn
has had spectacular success in her career,
despite her youth (she is 19), having
studied with the Sadler's Wells botter
school in London, where, after only one
year, she was chosen by Madame de
Valois to join their No. I company. She
danced at Covent Garden, then went
on a Royal Ballet tour of Canada and
America. Home again, she will alternate
with the other Borovansky ballerinas,
Kathleen Gorham, Christiane Hubert
and lovanka Biegovic, as Aurora in the
enchanting “Sleeping Princess,” with
which the season has begun.
~~ Celebrating their party’s 10 years of
Federal Government, 600 Liberals
flocked to the special cocktail-party at
David Jones’ dining-room.
Everyone looked very nice and smiling
in their Christmas best. Noted that
“Whimsies,” those little bits of bows and
veiling (which look so easy to make but
really take the delicate, artist touch)
have almost taken the place of the cock-
tail-hat.
Mrs. Lyle Moore wore a charming
little whimsy confection of black-satin
bows and veiling with her beige lace
dress. Among those who rook the eye
were Mrs. Eileen Furley, Mrs. Millard
Hagen (flame chiffon) and Miss Rose
Galagher, who, the only woman to make
a speech, talked for the shortest length
of time. Is there a moral in that?
V V #
The Christmas-cake at the Garden
Club's party was cut by American visitor
Louise Ballard, representing the National
State Garden Clubs of the U.S. She
asked Sir Frank Berryman to help her
cut it “with his wife's permission,” be-
cause that was the American custom.
Lady Stewart was among the guests, also
Sir John Northcott, and it was interest-
ing to meet Mrs. Alan James and Mrs.
Kell Bothy, visitors from Darwin, where
the Garden Club has quite a strong
branch.
The changed style of flower-arrange-
ment in recent years was well illustrated
at this party. Formerly, great masses
of flowers were used and balanced,
symmetrical shapes favored. This year,
however, the blossoms were used very
sparingly and mostly as accent. Mrs.
Arthur Davis', the club's president,
showed an interesting treatment of
strelitzias painted silver, their leaves gold.
Mrs. Albert Streber used an Indian sari
for her exquisite little Nativity scene.
Mrs. George Fenton cleverly combined
driftwood with gladiolus-heads and ivy,
and Mrs. D. Coloman’s candy-cottage,
its roof tiled with chewing-gum cubes,
would win the heart of any small child
on Christmas Day.
☆ ☆ ☆
Perhaps the most glamorous party of
the week was the Hawaiian luau given
in the home of Mr. and Mrs. David
Klippel at Wahroonga in aid of the
Black and White Committee of the Royal
Blind Society.
A fine moon lit-up the lovely garden,
where standard flares also added to the
romantic effect. Mannequins at the
parade of clothes by Frank Mitchel
included Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere, Mrs.
Max Sturzen, Mrs. John Trenerry, Prue
Pratten and Jane Hilbert. Everyone wore
leis (including “Churchill,” the bull-
dog). Special punch of bacardi rum and
what-not was served in pineapple-halves,
sucking-pig was a feature of the luau (or
feast), ukuleles played, hulas were danced.
The South Seas invaded the North Shore
line.
This party gave one quite an idea of
what is being worn at Palm Beach this
year. The muu-muu from Hawaii was
seen in many guises, from the sublime
to the ridiculous. The most attractive
were the fitted muu-muus, as worn by
Mrs. Klippel and Mrs. Sylvia Quist.
The flowing types, which reach in
Mother Hubbard fashion from shoulder
to ankle, really look like bright floral
nightgowns of amateur cut. Of course,
they’re rather fun, and that’s part of
fashion. The sarong-dresses were much
more flattering, and the wide-cut skirt
more feminine.
One cannot use the word “slacks” any
more, for those garments have become


so narrow and tight. They are getting
closer to the knee as the moments pass.
Soon they will be breeches in the 18th-
century fashion, having passed through
all the stages of the matador-, the
picador- and the toreador-pants.
MELBOURNE
Huge bowls of yellow roses were set
in the official enclosure for the farewell
luncheon given by the State Government
at Queen’s Hall in honor the Governor-
General and Lady Slim (the latter was
presented with a bouquet of pink and
white orchids and Christ mas-lilies by
Mrs. Henry Bolte). Lady Slim chose a
turquoise-blue silk frock, its fichu collar
extending from the high waist beyond
the shoulders ; the sleeves were elbow-
length. A cap of tiny flowers in lighter
tones of blue was a delightful finish to
the frock. Mrs. Bolte’s choice was a
tailored coat in tabac-brown faille, a silk
frock in a beige, brown and white
design and a wide-brimmed planter’s-hat
in burnt-straw banded in tabac-brown
grosgrain ribbon.
In proposing the toast of Sir William
Slim the Premier scored a hit when he
gallantly said that his Excellency had
been decorated many times, but his finest
decoration was Lady Slim. At the vice-
regal table were Chief Justice Sir
Edmund Herring and Lady Herring,
Legislative Council President Sir Gordon
McArthur and Lady McArthur.
☆ ☆ ☆
Later in the day the G.-G. and Lady
Slim were host and hostess at a pleasant,
informal party at Government House,
guests being representatives of organisa-
tions of which their Excellencies have
been patron and patroness, and which
were indicative of the wide interest they
have shown in the community-life. The
150 guests were received in the State
drawing-room, which was decorated with
bowls of Christmas-lilies, gladioli,
hydrangea and yellow-broom. Lady Slim
chose a frock of navy silk-chiffon which
featured a wide sailor-collar and pleated
skirt. With the host and hostess were
the Governor and Lady Brooks, the latter
wearing a frock of delphinium-blue lace
mounted on taffeta.
☆ ☆ ☆
There were 1000 guests at the glitter-
ing civic reception at the Town Hall to
pay their tribute to the retiring Governor-
General and his lady. The main hall
was adorned with flowers, and behind
the vice-regal enclosure was a sloping
lawn with gardens on each side. The
Governor-General’s standard, the Aus-
tralian Flag and the Union Jack were in
prominent positions. In front of the
official dais was a garden and fountain.
The guests-of-honor were received by the
Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Cr.
and Mrs. Bernard Evans), and the Town
Clerk and Mrs. Rogan, and the guard-
of-honor comprised scarlet-coated officers
of the Royal Melbourne Regiment. A
small diamond tiara and diamond pendant
necklace were handsome accessories to
Lady Slim’s attractive gown of
pervenche-blue poult, which had a slight
train. A wide-skirted gown of honey-
toned Chantilly-lace, the bodice carrying
matching iridescent stones, was worn by
the Lady Mayoress. Also in the official
party were Acting Prime Minister
McEwen and Mrs. McEwen, and the
Premier and Mrs. Henry Bolte.
White gladioli, Christ mas-lilies and
hydrangeas decorated St. John’s Church,
Toorak for the marriage of Diana, elder
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. George
Laurens, of Toorak, and David Jones,
younger son of Mr. and Mrs. Angus
Jones, also of Toorak. The bride’s full-
skirted gown of white French re-
embroidered lace was trimmed with
crystal beading. Her full-length tulle
veil was caught by a pearl coronet, and
she carried gardenias and stephanotis. In
attendance were her sister Faye, Carolyn
Fairlie, Carole Visbord and Mrs. Wilfred
Dungan. Loops of white satin ribbon
from waist to hem adorned the bell-
shaped skirts of their white chiffon
frocks, which featured narrow folds on
the bodice and skirts. In their hair were
circlets of white satin finished with
jewelled petals, and their bouquets were
of tiny pink roses and tuberoses. Best,
man was Robert Griffiths and grooms-
men were Roger Armstrong, Graeme
Broadridge and Barry Finlay. Reception
for 300 guests was held at the home of
the bride’s parents. Mrs. Laurens chose
a gown of aqua-blue silk-tulle mounted
on taffeta and embroidered in silver
thread, Mrs. Jones wore a gown of
shell-pink satin, the sweeping skirt fea-
turing a group of impressed pleats at the
back. John Warlow photo.
The final farewell function to the
Governor-General and Lady Slim, a
luncheon at the Royale Ballroom given
by the British Commonwealth Societies,
was attended by over 400 people. Their
Excellencies were received by Overseas
League president Bruce Mcßrien and
hon. secretary Margaret Williamson.
Lady Slim wore a frock of smoke-blue
chiffon patterned in wide checks in black
tonings and a head-hugging cloche of
smoke-blue petals. Miss Williamson’s
slim-skirted suit was of ice-blue silk, her
hat of white petals. One of the features
of the decoration of the official table was
the tiny Union Jacks and Australian
Flags ; they had been used by Lieut.-
General Sir Horace Robertson (president
of the Royal Commonwealth Society)
when he was C.-in-C. in Japan.
☆ ☆ ☆
It was a full-house at the Princess
for the premiere of “Once Upon a
Mattress,” and a triumph for Gloria
Dawn, who plays the role of Princess
Winnifred. In the audience were Mrs.
Garnet Carroll, whose short frock of
deep-cfeam French-lace had a deep-gold
satin rose at the waistline ; Mrs. Leo
Guest, her champagne-tinted chiffon
frock fully pleated ; Mrs. Maurice Sall-
mann, who had a matching taffeta coat
for her rose-pink chiffon frock; Judy
Banks, in a short strapless frock of pink-
and-silver brocade; Mrs. Daryl Abra-
hams, in lipstick-pink taffeta ; Dr. and
Mrs. Keith Fairley and their son and
daughter-in-law, Dr. and Mrs. Ken
Fairley ; and Mrs. Bernard Dowd, whose
frock of black French lace featured a
wide floating panel.
☆ ☆ ☆
For the Tiv.’s new show, “Ecstasy on
Ice,” the foyer was decorated with figures
of skating-girls and cherubs among snow-
flakes. In Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Cooper’s
party on the opening night were the
Lady Mayoress (Mrs. Bernard Evans)
and her daughter Margot. Mrs. Cooper's
frock was of autumn-flowers printed on
pure silk, Mrs. Evans’s of champagne
self-embossed satin. Margot’s ballerina
frock was of China-blue lurex-satin.
Mrs. Garnet Carroll was accompanied
by her son John and a visitor from San
Francisco, Helen Robb. Sir Arthur and
Lady Smithers, Mrs. A. G. Silk (her
oyster-toned satin theatre-coat featuring
a wide black satin portrait-collar and
cuffs on which were printed pale-blue
Chinese motifs), Sir Frank Richardson
and Lady Richardson, Mr. and Mrs.
Norman Spry and Mr. and Mrs. S.
Aarons were others who enjoyed the
bright show.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Victoria League clubrooms were
decorated with mixed flowers for the
festive sherry-party given by members
of the Young Contingent of the league.
More than 60 guests were welcomed by
president Max Chapman and social-
secretary Mrs. T. Firth. Guests included
the senior vice-president of the league
(Mrs. Guy Bakewell) and Mr. Bakewell ;
league vice-presidents Mrs. R. B. Hamil-
ton and Mrs. Frank May ; Mrs. D.
Holyman ; Spanish Consul Dr. F. Xipell
and Mrs. Xipell; Mr. and Mrs. G. Jack-
son ; Mr. and Mrs. F. D. Beck; Mrs.
Hellier Evans, Marjorie Tatnall and
Pamela Middleton.


The English-
as Australia** see tUe<M !
LESLEY ROWLANDS
/<5tW/c/ gift ! .
AH 6ooh seders 2of~
A URt JMI TM OOCK.
New Books from Australian Authors
Tales from the Aborigines
by W. E. (Bill) Harney 22/6
Well-known author and broadcaster, now keeper of Ayers Rock.
The Red Bull
by H. A. Lindsay 15/9
An authentic novel of land clearing, pasture establishment and the
struggle to turn virgin land into farm. Set in the south-east
corner of Australia.
Robert Hale are the Publishers
of narrative, there is A. D. Hope’s
ingenious reversal of the Robinson
Crusoe legend, amusing in its paradoxi-
cal story, most telling in its satire —
poor Man Friday, taken home with
Crusoe, is shipwrecked in English
respectability.
But apart from these longer
pieces, it still seems to have been an
exceptionally good year for both writ-
ing* and editing. Running through
the contents in the alphabetical order
in which they are arranged one notices,
particularly, John Blight - continuing
to make the world’s oceans his private
and peculiar territory (he is leaving
very little scope for anyone elsd to
write a successful poem about the
ocean and its inhabitants); David
Campbell very nearly at his lyrical and
Australian best in a “Prayer for Rain”;
Robert Clark with a pleasant sort of
Anglo-Saxon terseness- in “Genera-
tions”; Rosemary Dobson delightfully
turning nurses into horses (fillies, one
should say); Mary Gilmore staunchly
reminding us that men are more than
machines; Keith Harrison very musical
in his “Evening Canticle”; Max Harris
much alive on colonial ghosts in
Adelaide; William Hart-Smith observ-
ing snails and boomerangs with his
amused and sensitive eye; Peter Hope-
good seeing the revolutionary signific-
ance of the donkey, much as Yeats
saw his “rough beast” that “slouches
towards Bethlehem to be born”;
Evan Jones with a graceful “Christen-
ing Song”; James McAuley beginning
to seek for Quiros and finding a
memorable seagull; Ronald McCuaig’s
moving elegy for his father, making
tragic poetry out of such unlikely
material as rainbow-cakes and hard-
ware-shops; Nan McDonald’s haunted
and haunting hatters; Thomas W.
Shapcott forcibly using Hopkins’s
technique to describe a “Woman in
the Bar”; and, ending a fine collec-
tion among which many others could
be singled-out, Judith Wright searching
in a lake for the Creator: —
What lover’s shuttle flew when all
began?
Who chose the images this net can
draw? —
Sun, moon and cloud, the hanging
leaves and trees,
all gather round the terrible face of
man —
my face. I drew my net, and eyes
met eyes,
lover to lover. Deep we looked, and
saw.
This anthology would obviously
make an ideal gift-book for anyone
who cares for poetry; and, for the
young and aspiring writer, it is really
essential. Nobody can hope to write
poetry acceptable to the age unless he
knows, if only as a point of departure,
the best work that is being done in
his own country in his own time.
D.S.
Harney's Aborigines
W. E. Harney’s new book, Tales
From the Aborigines (Hale), is at its
most readable in Part IV: “Tales of
Contact,” where the happenings are
real and have some relation to white
men, though the “Tales of Fantasy”
have their points—especially the story
of the Lightning Brothers, Marlu and
Yaba, who were divided over the
seduction and possession of the cave-
girl Cananda, and who fought a duel
in- which Yaba’s head rolled “as a
stone on to the open plain.”
There is also the story of Pungalung,
the aboriginal Actaeon, who found the
mice-women innocent, and dealt with
them cruelly, so that they became
dingoes and chased him out of their
country, though his death seems to
have been caused by stumbling over
a mountain on a dark night.
But the true-life story of how
Jalnuk and his family left their job
for a holiday in a canoe, were wrecked
on an island and labored like the Swiss
Family Robinson to feed and clothe
themselves and build a new canoe to
take them back to the mainland, makes
much better reading; and so does the
story of the half-caste Muraguleki and
his full-blood step-brother Hector.
When Muraguleki came back from
the mission school to the tribe he was
welcomed and given a wife, but he
had learned a different law from the
blackfellow code on the question of
one’s right—and,. indeed, duty—to
sleep with the wife of an absent
brother.
Nevertheless, all the stories here are
handpicked, and are the selection of a
sage in such matters; and in all of
them Harney brings the storytellers
into the picture. For some readers his
wonderful introductions will be the
best part of the book: the conversation
of aborigines before the story proper,
an old lubra explaining the facts of
life to an audience of enthralled and
unembarrassed children (“The Story of
the Stolen Baby”); the characterisation
and humor that only a man who can
speak to aborigines as one of them
could secure:—
“When I find nothing water,” con-
tinued Bradley, “I been talk-talk to


GEORGIAN HOUSE BOOKS
YANDY
by DONALD STUART. A documentary novel based on a strike of aboriginal station-
hands in north-western Australia in 1946. An inspiring answer to the question “Can the
aborigines earn the status of full citizenship in White Australia ?" With a striking colour
jacket reproducing a magnificent oil painting “Don McLeod and His Mob,” by James
Wigley. 160 pages. 18/- (lOd.)
CATHOLIC ACTION AND POLITICS
by TOM TRUMAN, Senior Lecturer in Political Science in the University of Queensland.
A critical examination of “The Movement.” 246 pages. 35/- (1/3)
A WORD BOOK OF WINE
by WALTER JAMES. A dictionary of the wines of the world, with comments on their
infinitely various characteristics. Decorations by Harold Freedman. 209 pages. 26/- (1/5)
THE EXPLORATIONS OF CAPTAIN JAMES COOK IN THE PACIFIC
as told in his journals. Edited by Dr. A. Grenfell Price and superbly illustrated by
Geoffrey Ingleton. Limited edition. 292 pages. 70/- (2/6)
SYDNEY’S HIGHWAYS OF HISTORY
by GEOFFREY SCOTT. The fascinating story of Sydney’s streets and the people
who have lived in them from the earliest days. 262 pages, profusely illustrated. 42/- (1/3)
UP AND DOWN THE SYDNEY ROAD
The Romance of the Hume Highway, by BERESFORD REA. All the history and
romance of this great highway is told in this absorbing book. 256 pages. Illustrated. 25/-(l/3)
AUSTRALIAN SHELLS
by JOYCE ALLAN. New revised edition of this standard work. 487 pages. 44 plates
including 12 in colour, £4/4/- (2/6)
THE SEA-HORSE AND ITS RELATIVES
by JOYCE ALLAN and GILBERT WHITLEY. The only book on this interesting
subject. 80 pages. With a coloured frontispiece and many line drawings. 30/- (1/3)
( Figures in brackets denote postage.)
Obtainable from all booksellers
GEORGIAN HOUSE, MELBOURNE, 5.C.6.
my old woman —‘You wait here and
I go down well and bring up water
in billy-can’... .Then I go down.”
“Go down,” laughingly interrupted
Nelly. “You been slip and fall down
like stone.... Old woman been tell-
em-we that you been sing out all the
way like baby.”
“Baby nothing,” disgustedly re-
torted the old man. “I been go
down easy way. Big snake in timber
make me fright and when I try to get
away from that cheeky-one I been
slip and close-up drown when I go
long way into that water.”
There are also some ten poems distri-
buted throughout the book, mostly on
the white man from the aboriginal
point of view:—
White man properly different kind,
Watch on wrist, then wind . . . wind
. . . wind;
Pull up sleeve and look all day,
Look when work and look when
play.
Most of the poems are gay, except
“Two-fellow Level ’Gether”: —
Missus boy and my little boy two
fellow grow up ’gether,
Level play in mud all day longa the
rainy weather;
Two-fellow chase em dog all-time,
fight and climb em tree,
Listen hard when my man tell stories
longa to we.
But when the children grow up, they
aren’t level any more: “And my old
man him say to me, ‘Must be someone
mad, Whitefellow think him all time
good, blackfellow all time bad’
So I talk, “Old man, listen here,
no more growl-growl white,
All-about must live him way, which
one say him right?
Kiddie him play-play every day,
kiddie him no more fool.
Two-fellow level understand when
two-fellow level school.”
Fires and Trees
H. A. Lindsay’s The Red Bull
(Hale) is a bushfire; he has a beaut in
the prologue, the bushfire that
destroyed the Lady Alice mining-
settlement in South Australia in 1881;
and later in the novel, in 1939, Tom
Reeford, who has been making the
valley abundant since 1919, copes with
another great bushfire by lighting a
fire to run up the hill and stop it.
Reeford, the simple farm-worker,
and his city-bred wife Agnes have a
daughter called Alison, who grows up
to study at the university and become
an expert botanist. In World War II
she walks out on the fuddyduddy head
of the wood-technology department
and goes to work for a toolmaker
who is angry with the Government for
not having supplies of American
hickory for handles.
Alison has told the toolmaker that
there is hickory on a farm near her
father’s. He puts her in charge of
the forestry branch of his business.
She meets a young university student
who is in the army, marries him, and
when he comes back from a hard time
in the islands, makes him her assistant
in the forestry business, which they
further to such an extent that their
industrialist patron accords them a
trip around the world —on which
utmost fulfilment of contemporary
Australian desires the book ends.
H. A. Lindsay is as practical a
novelist as ever lived; his people are
not quite cardboard people, but when
they come alive most it is because of
the problems they have to solve. With
another novelist such problems might
have been shaded-in, as means of
illustrating different facets of the
people’s characters, but with H. A.
Lindsay it is the problem that is
important: how to extinguish a bush-
fire. how to plant trees the foliage of
which will not carry fire, how to
experiment until you find that zinc
and copper mixed will grow lucerne
where it would hardly grow before,
how the ageing Tom Reeford is cured
of an allergy to dust that no doctor
could diagnose, how the visiting big-
city doctor who diagnosed the allergy
arranges for the stocking of the stream
with trout, how the trout will be
tasteless on such a clean, gravelly bed
but will nevertheless be of interest to
anglers . . .
But the real interest of the book is
in forestry: in the possibility that trees
imported into Australia will grow
better here, as Australian gums grow
better in South Africa; in the
advantages of foreign foliage in keep-
ing down underbrush; in the rotting
of fallen timber with fungus as prepara-
tion for plantations of American red-
wood . . . One feels that H. A. Lindsay
will never see a novel lovely as a tree.


Package Sewage Treatment Plants
without Sludge Disposal Problems
t m
• V :
Complete Treatment in One Tank without Odour or Nuisance for Populations
between 50 and 10,000 in
HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS
SHOPPING CENTRES
INDUSTRIAL PLANTS
SCHOOLS
MOTELS
HOSPITALS
AIRPORTS
COUNTRY CLUBS
INSTITUTIONS
Aeration, settling, sludge re-circulation, digestion by “ Wet-burning ” and chlorination results in a clear ,
sparkling effluent with low 8.0. D.
“Wet-burning” of the sludge by oxidation produces a fine ash which is transferred in small quantities to
the chlorine contact zone without materially increasing the 8.0. D. or degree of purity of the final effluent. -
Sludge disposal problems are therefore completely eliminated.
Wholly Manufactured under License in Australia by
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. ltd.
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY QUEENSLAND, AUSTRALIA
v- \ y •- <* . i* * C -I.Z. 1.
Interstate Agents: 1 ' ‘ '
N.S.W.: Alfred Snashall Pty. Ltd. 500 Kent Street, Sydney
Vic.: Thomson & Carroll, Pty. Ltd., 792 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
S.A.: Mining Supplies (S.A.), 622 South Road, Edwardstown
