

PROVED THROUGHOUT AUS
as the
HOME LIGHTING
BATTERY that’s
YEARS AHEAD
Century engineers working closely with leading battery
laboratories in U.S.A. perfected this marvellous homelighting
battery, approved by thousands of users all over Australia as
the finest battery ever made. It’s NEW IN EVERY DETAIL
—WITH NEW TECHNIQUES—NEW CONSTRUCTION
METHODS—NEW SUPER PERFORMANCE.
100 K AT THESE DYNAMIC FEATURES.
* SILVIUM — tlie scientific additive
winch KEEPS PLATES ACTIVE
WITH MAXIMUM EFFICIENCY;
PREVENTS GRID CORROSION.
ONLY CENTURY IIOMELIGHT-
-ING BATTERIES CONTAIN
SILVIUM.
• INBUILT GRAVITY BALL
INDICATORS . . . show state
of charge AT ALL TIMES.
No more messy hydrometer.
• TRANSPARENT POLYSTY-
RENE CONTAINER . . . you can
see the acid level at a glance.
© GLASS INSULATION gives
sustained power during the
BATTERY’S ENTIRE LIFE.
BACKED BY A BULLET-PROOF
THREE YEARS' GUARANTEE
with SILVIUM
FOLLOW THE LEAD OF THOUSANDS OF SATISFIED GRAZIERS
AND STATION OWNERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
DEMAND THE BEST ... BUY THE BEST ... BUY CENTURY!
SILVIUM Batteries are also available for all cars, trucks, tractors, etc.
i
OIIAItANTIilil)
tlfllllii; YEARS
tin i imi is* j
These three gravity ball
indicators white, red
and green—are clearly
visible through the trans-
parent polystyrene con-
tainer. Their floating
position shows instantly
the Battery s state of
charge.
AVAILABLE FROM CENTURY BATTERY DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
The Bulletin
As Others See "T he Doll”—page 32
Wednesday, June 24, 1959
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find It for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
AUSTRALIANS ABROAD
The combined weight of T. S. Eliot
and the U.S. armed forces in Europe—
it is difficult to say which is the more
potent —has persuaded English pub-
lishers of late to recognise the exist-
ence of several American poets, and
it is becoming quite common for
anthologies such as “The Faber Book
of English Verse” to include them.
American poetry —so much of it as
there is room for —is accepted as a
contribution to the common glories of
the English language; London, as we
always wish it to be, becomes the
Centre.
When they remember this fact, as
from time to time they do, Australian
poets, who also write in English, who
have closer imperial relations with
Great Britain than the Americans, and
who are never included in English
anthologies, naturally simmer with
indignation. Nobody, of course, takes
any notice of that; but, still, when
they remember to, they simmer.
There was, certainly, the recent
“Penguin Book of Australian Verse”;
and a very good thing, too. Though
in point of fact it was mostly reviewed
in England By Australian expatriates
who took the opportunity once more
to shake the dust of their native land
from their heels, it presumably intro-
duced Australian poetry to a numerous
audience of English readers. But it
was still not quite the same thing as
mingling Australian writers, cheek by
jowl like the kangaroos at Whipsnade,
with the local English inhabitants.
They remained segregated; and the
English reader who shuddered at the
thought of Australian poetry was, alas,
under no compulsion to inspect it.
But now, largely as a result of the
Penguin book, there is The Guinness
Book of Poetry (Putnam), which is so
mollifying as almost to remove all
excuse for simmering.
This anthology, with the Guinness
Awards which are the source of it, is
indeed a most noble institution. One
of its most pleasing features is that, as
the Duke of Wellington said about the
Garter, there is no damn’d merit about
it; or, rather, for there really is a great
deal of merit, not too much damn’d
competition. Out of the blue, out of
the generosity of their hearts, the spon-
sors of the venture simply select the
best poems published during the year
in England, pay the authors a hand-
some fee (£5 sterling, if one remembers
rightly) for permission to reprint them,
and give the author of the best poem
of all an extremely handsome prize of
£lOO (also sterling).
Thus altogether it is a very stout
effort, and the only thing which makes
it not quite so mollifying as it might be
is that it seems to be essentially an
Irish enterprise rather than an Eng-
lish; and if anybody thinks that is the
same thing he is mistaken. However,
the effect is the same: Australian
writers selected for it mingle on equal
terms with English, Irish, Scottish and
South African poets (there don’t seem
to be any New Zealanders or
Canadians; but they may simmer on
their own account about that); and
the book circulates in England.
The Australians who got into the
present volume did so because they
were also in the Penguin anthology,
which was regarded as having been
published in England. This is not
altogether satisfactory, because the
Penguin book, though the best modern
anthology we have had, was itself not
wholly satisfactory; nor have the
Guinness editors (Laurie Lee, Louis
MacNeice, Lennox Robinson) taken
all the best of it. But at any rate it is
very pleasing to see some Australians
there—John Blight, Mary Gilmore,
A. D. Hope, J. R. Rowland, Randolph
Stow, Michael Thwaites, Judith
Wright, etc. —keeping company with
Graves, Auden, Spender and Day
Lewis; with that Edinburgh school-
master Norman MacCaig who looks
so much like an Australian writer
misspelt; with Sean O’Criadain and
Donagh MacDonagh from Ireland;
and with such delightful items as
Hilary Corke’s “Sailing to India”
which might almost have been written
by Kenneth Slessor. No Australian
got the £lOO prize; but prizes, as 69
of these 70 authors will surely agree,
always go to the wrong poems.
There is one matter to which, so
that this most gratifying alliance may
continue, one would very much like
to draw the attention of the Guinness
editors. Do not Angus and Robertson
publish their books these days both
in England and Australia? And if
that is so, would it not be possible for
the contributions to their annual
anthology, “Australian Poetry,” to be
considered every year for this Guin-
ness book with its breadth of outlook,
its beautiful format and its exceedingly
beautiful prize?
D.S.
Happy Families
In Lantana Lane (Collins) Eleanor
Dark has gone light with a set of
sketches of people who have taken-up
small farms on a road within view of
the Queensland coast, not with a plan
of making fortunes, but rather to
enjoy life.
One husband was a Melbourne
newsagent, another, an Englishman,
has forsaken law for farming, a
husband and wife were schoolteachers,
another couple used to be a bank-
clerk and typist, another a beauty-
specialist and another a hotel-recep-
tionist. All make a community, help-
ing each other in difficulty, picking
each other’s pineapples, mending each
other’s cars, minding each other’s
children, etc.
There is also a French aunt; one of
the best chapters is an account of how
she travelled in a train with her dog,
avoiding the efforts of the officials to
keep the dog out of carriages or put
it in the guard’s van.
It is a book about a dream. Of the
people who try to realise a conception
of life lived easily and carelessly, their
own bosses, away from tfie strain and
confusion of big cities, how many
really succeed? Yet most people have
memories of a few years, generally in
early marriage, when everything went
well; when neighbors were kind and
considerate, when the morrow looked
as though it could take care of itself;
when life was simple and at the same
time full of contentment —this book
brings some of it back to the reader.
Yet even Mrs. Dark or, maybe,
especially Mrs. Dark —knows it will
not last. Throughout the book there
have been references to surveyors and
main-roads and The Deviation:—
We have lived round the corner
from the world, with not even a
signpost to betray our whereabouts;
we have ripened a few fruits besides
our oranges and pineapples; and if
the treasure we have accumulated
makes no show upon our bank
statements, neither is it subject to
income-tax. Thus, with our wealth
safely invested, we need not repine
too much when the highway catches
up with us. The world and his wife
will come whizzing past our doors,
but we shall know, if they do not,
that this mile-long strip of glassy
bitumen was once Lantana Lane.
Miles Franklin Broadcast
Anyone who has had the privilege
of a private hearing of John Thomp-
son’s tape-recorded symposium on
Christopher Brennan, which for some
obscure reason the A.B.C. is unable to
broadcast, must have been consider-
ably alarmed by its brilliance: for it
almost seems to make the art of both
the biographer and the playwright
unnecessary.
Thompson simply goes around with
his tape-recorder interviewing people
who have known his hero. They tell
(Continued on page 58)


180 branches ca
for the
Man on the Land
€©- WWIrS
m
m
m
□
m
*' V ' -V^v^.v..
ELDER'S
BRANCHES AND
SUBBRANCHES
IN N.S.W.
ARMIDALE
BROKEN HILE
COLLARENEBRI
CON DO BO El N
COONAMBEE
COOTAMUNDRA
(’ROOK WEE E
DENIEIQUIN
DUBBO
FORBES
GIEGANDRA
OEEN INNES
CUNNEDAH
GUYRA
HAY
INVEREEE
JERIEDERIE
MERRIWA
MOREE
NARRABRI
NARRANOERA
NARROMINE
NYNGAN
QUIRINDI
TAM WORTH
TEMORA
T R ANG IE
WAECHA
WENTWORTH
WEST WYAEONG
WIEEOW TREE
YOUNG
have always endeavoured to put service as
%/****' their first aim and to carry this service to the
Man on the Land they have built 180 branches throughout
Australia. Not only do they give personalised service through
the branches but their buildings have enhanced country towns
from Carnarvon to Charleville.
180 branches give nation-wide Service to the
Man on the Land, covering Wool, Merchandise,
Shipping, Travel, Chartering, Insurance, Skin and Hides, Land
and Livestock, Rural Banking.
ELDER, SMITH & GO., LIMITED
Adelaide, Perth, Albany, Melbourne, Geelong, Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane, London
with which are amalgamated
COMMONWEALTH WOOL & PRODUCE CO. LIMITED .. e . SYDNEY,
NENCO LIMITED NEWCASTLE
MOREHEADS LIMITED BRISBANE


The Bulletin
Wednesday, June 24, 1959
Vol. 80—No. 4141
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opposite
G.P.O. ), Wellington.
PASSWORD: COMPROMISE
npHE State Labor conferences have
A run their course in New South
Wales, Victoria and South Australia.
Particularly in N. S. Wales the
spectacle was more notable as an
exhibition of the “democratic central-
ism,” which has been learnt from the
Communists, than as a display of true
A.L.P. principles.
Agenda - committees, steering - com-
mittees, a whole legion of .managers
working on the “diamond” principle—
some on each side —made the N. S.
Wales conference a fine exemplar of
how these things can be done on
totalitarian lines with a semblance of
democratic virtue.
Resolutions were timed for particu-
lar purposes—including that of making
it too late to bring them on before the
axe and gag cut the meeting’s head off
during a breathless debate on the
proposition that a percentage of their
salaries should be (illegally) exacted
from members of Parliament.
The usual crop of instructions to
Mr. Cahill were brought down at the
times when it would be most conveni-
ent for the press to report them fully,
and with a right degree of menace and
limelight to make the miserable helots
of the N. S. Wales Cabinet feel that
they were naked before the big guns
of the party.
course the authors of these mea-
sures do not expect even a quarter
of them to be carried out; they know
as well as anybody that if they were
all applied in government the State
would face ruin. But it impresses the
rank-and-file with a sense of the power
of their managers both over Ministers
and over themselves. It inflates the
sense of self-importance of those who
bring these things forward, and it gives
them levers to use when standing for
office or running for nomination to
Parliament or to a council.
Ministers and political leaders, of
course, are given their chance to throw
a few crackers in the powder-game.
And the whole show ends with an
election in which it is contrived for
political purposes to appear that the
Right-wing has won, but only with a
small minority over the militant Left,
which can always count on a few
weaklings or underground workers
among the Right-wingers to turn a
crucial vote.
npHE party is full of members who
model themselves on Dr. Evatt,
who must by now surely have to look at
his diary to decide what is his color
for the day. A few months ago he was
fighting an election with the backing
of the fierce protagonism of the
united-front Red-union ticket-holders.
Now he is condemning his former
supporters just as fiercely as they
approved of him at the end of last
year.
A year or so ago he was the Bayard
of a Left army which was sworn to a
crusade to push-out Catholic white-
anters who were allegedly burrowing
into the party. Now he’s against unity-
tickets and is convinced that Com-
munism is the danger.
It’s a remarkable sight to see—the
Victorian Left shouting that “Evatt
must go” and the N. S. Wales Right,
squired by Mr. Cahill, making obeis-
ance to the erstwhile enemy of the
Groupers, now apparently on the
Grouper side.
Of course, anything could happen
within the next year or so, but both
Evatt and Cahill are supple and accom-
modating acrobats, ever willing to put
their big-toes behind their political
ears or attempt to tie three knots in
their necks. Ready, too, to cover-up
incongruities and inconsistencies in
their attitudes by loud double-talk
about their principles.
'T'HE task of rationalising the policy
of Federal Labor as expressed at the
various conferences would be enough
to daunt even an indiarubber man like
Evatt. He is less fortunate than Ward
and his henchmen, who have been able,
in their apparent defeat, to steal
silently underground where they may
excavate, like the wombat, the very
shaky earth beneath the feet of their
opponents. Only undermining rumb-
lings can be expected from them in the
next few months.
But Evatt is in a different position.
The N.S.W. branch apparently looks
on him as a champion of causes so
much based on Rightist principles that
the D.L.P. is allegedly thinking of a
united front with the A.L.P. And if
there are wicked people who believe
that the good Doctor’s (and Cahill’s)
exhibition of perfervid Rightism ,and
moderation is merely a ruse to lure
the D.L.P. out of its cave and smother
it in the mass of A.L.P. enthusiasm
for its causes, this is perhaps natural,
but very naughty of the sceptics who
hold these views.
It became quite evident at the
Federal election that without the aid
of the D.L.P. no more Federal elections
were likely to go to Labor for years
to come.
Therefore something had to be done.
If that something was a complete
volte face and involved the adoption
of principles diametrically opposite to
those in use last year, still, self-
preservation directed its urgent
adoption.
The Victorian A.L.P., contrary to
the trends further north, has swung
to the Left. It tied itself up to the
Australia-New Zealand Congress for
International Friendship and Disarma-
ment, which reeks of Communism and
is looked on by those who know
(including the Communist press) as a
“fellow-traveller” operation.
T/ICTORIAN Labor is all for the
rescission of the Federal confer-
ence’s action against unity-tickets. It
is behind the Communist campaign
for the abolition of penal clauses in
arbitration-legislation, a matter which
is being pressed by the waterside and
transport unions, apparently, with
certain plans allegedly made for world
disruption of transport in view, the first
symptom of which is the strike of
Italian seamen.
The South Australian conference,
while concentrating on a move for the
abolition of card-voting, an issue round
which rages a fight for A.W.U. control
of the branch, was inclined to the
revision of the unity-ticket outlook of
the Federal conference. Generally
speaking, the topsy-turvy attitudes
which made the Lefts into Rights and
some of the Rights into Lefts was as
obvious in Adelaide as elsewhere.
Today the password of Labor is
“Compromise,” designed to save the
party from ruin, and the countersign
is “Expediency.” Every leader is
trying to adapt himself to the opinions
which seem most likely to prove good
medicine for a body whose present
hard platform looks like its deathbed.
Tomorrow’s principles and opinions
can take care of themselves.


"While they're waiting down there, let's start from the other side."


PLAIN ENGLISH
Stand and Deliver
The feature of the Geneva Foreign
Ministers’ talks seems to be their com-
plete hopelessness.
The Russian tactics have been the
typical ebb-and-flow tactics of Com-
munism. Give way a little —egg the
other side on to give way a little. When
a point has been reached at which the
opponent has given a little more than
yourself, withdraw what you have already
given and start afresh from the original
position. Carry on this see-saw until the
weary adversary makes some mistake
which can be used in world propaganda.
Then take advantage of him, and retire
jeering and triumphant to start the same
game somewhere else.
Present negotiations started with an
ultimatum delivered last November that
the Western Allies must get out of
Berlin, leaving it and the whole of East
Germany behind the Iron Curtain, by
May 27 this year. But the Soviet Union
would sooner have an agreement which
would dupe the West into a position of
giving way on effective points.
Recent history shows that every time
the Western Allies have agreed to a
partial or temporary occupation of any
country by the Kremlin, the Russians
have seized the area permanently, broken
every undertaking and used whatever has
been put in their temporary charge or
that of their Communist allies, to further
the advance of the world revolution.
Without firing a shot in the Pacific
War, Stalin forced the handing-over of
Manchuria and its immense resources to
the care of Moscow. Chiang Kai-shek’s
Nationalist Government, as one of the
Big Four, agreed to this. The Russians
then used the Japanese military resources
quite illegally, and in defiance of a
treaty with fighting allies, to drive out
Chiang Kai-shek and install in Peking a
Chinese Communist Government bitterly
hostile to the United States.
The Allies agreed to Russia holding
half Korea in trusteeship. It at once
began organising North Korean armies
to invade South Korea, and helped Red
China to provide an army for this pur-
pose. It conditioned the armies of Ho
Chih-min to invade North Vietnam and
oust the French.
On the pretext of destroying colonial-
ism and freeing India, Burma and
Malaya it has been at the back of the
Communist organisations whose depreda-
tions and attempts to clamp-down a new
Red colonialism have cost tens of
millions of pounds and thousands of
innocent lives and untold wretchedness.
It tried to play the same game in the
Philippines, Egypt and Syria. It is trying
even now to play it in Iran, Ceylon,
Malaya and the Indo-China countries.
It is only prevented from having its helot
Communist party seize Indonesia by the
firmness and strength of the Army.
It has honeycombed Africa with agents.
Its history in Europe has been a long
record of unbelievable treachery, fol-
lowed by violence and wholesale murder
where the populace has resisted.
Its subjugation of Eastern Germany,
which it dredged of its technical talent
and machinery, and which it has reduced
to a prison of suppressed intellect
and devoid of ambition, involves shock-
ing breaches of faith with trusting allies.
Khrushchev is still determined to sign
a separate peace with East Germany,
with or without Western consent, “if the
West continues to hinder the settlement
of the German question”—by, of course,
making the reasonable proposal that, 14
years after the end of the war, the Ger-
mans should be allowed to decide their
own fate byjvote and state at the polls
whether or not they wish to go behind
the Iron Curtain.
Behind the Russian autocrat’s demands
lies only one potent argument —brutal
armed force ; the aggression which the
hypocrites of the Kremlin profess to
loathe as the last resort of tyrants and
imperialists.
Greater Sydney Again
Once again N. S. Wales Labor is trying
to revive the Greater Sydney plan. At
the A.L.P. conference a resolution was
passed instructing the Cahill Government
to establish a Greater Sydney Council
“before the next State elections.” This
is something that has been in the party-
platform for years, but latterly without
any clear definition. Apparently it was
on the urging of Lord Mayor Jensen for
a clearer statement of the plank that
the latest resolution was passed, after
various delegates had spoken critically
of the present set-up. Whether the inten-
tion is that a Bigger ’n’ Better City
Council would absorb the Water Board,
the Sydney County Council and the
Cumberland County Council, the
Abattoirs and metropolitan transport, or
whether it would limit its swallow to
geographical items and merely gulp
down all municipalities within TV-range
of Sydney Town Hall, has not yet been
announced, but when Labor gets in this
mood it usually seems inclined to go
the whole hog. Alderman Jensen has
expressed himself pleased with the move
and seems to be thinking along the lines
of London County Council. Most of
those who voted for the motion at the
conference were probably not thinking
along any specific lines at all, other than
the pathetic belief that bigger necessarily
means better, and that in any case there’d
be more jobs for the boys.
It is 12. years since Labor last had a
stab at a Greater Sydney. This was the
Eight City Plan, introduced when Premier
Cahill was Minister for Local Govern-
ment. Resolute opposition by some
councils saved them from destruction on
that occasion, though several inner-
suburban councils were tacked-on to the
city, their predominantly Labor voters
swamping the vote of the city-proper and
bringing it permanently under Labor
control.
Since then there has been very little
about the administration of Sydney City
Council that would make a self-respecting
ratepayer in the suburbs want to change
his local municipal council for that of a
Greater Sydney ; there’s been much to
make him feel grateful for the relatively
pure municipal air of the outer suburbs.
Coal and Socialisation
Somebody is remiss in not circulating to
the Australian coalminers the report of
the British National Coal Board, just
to show that the nationalisation, which
the Miners’ Federation unceasingly advo-
cates as the solution of Australian
difficulties, is no solution at all.
Of course, the Federation’s members
can scarcely be blamed for supposing
that it is, in view of the habit of Mr.
Cahill and his henchmen of providing
specious arguments for socialisation at
the expense of the whole of the Austra-
lian taxpayers.
Beside the rationalisation and closing
of redundant mines which has been going
on in the United Kingdom, miners’
troubles in the northern coalfields of
N. S. Wales—the one centre of complaint
—are a mere circumstance.
While Australian coal-production has
been buoyant, in the United Kingdom,
as on the Continent of Europe, there
has been recession. U.K. production fell-
off for the year by 144-million tons,
which is not far short of the whoie
production-of N. S. Wales mines.
And the attitude of the U.K. National
Coal Board, which has accumulated losses
of £stg.32 million, has a last-stand air.
Its average loss per annum is about
£stg.4 million.
During 1958 employment in the indus-
try fell-off by 22,600, and it was kept
at this figure only by abolition of Satur-
day work, reduction of overtime working,
earlier closing of 12 large pits, stock-
piling of 12-million tons of coal and
various other devices, apart from Govern-
ment pressure on electricity-generating
utilities to abandon plans for going-over
to oil, largely on the basis of inducements
offered by favorable prices.
No fewer than 36 pits were marked-
down for closure during the year; 25
are already closed. For the future there
will certainly be more shuttings-down.
The chairman declared that he could not
say “how many would go of a large
number still under review,” but that “by
the very nature of things we are facing
contraction.”
The position is, of course, worse in
Europe. But the central fact is that, in
comparison with the rest of the coal-
producing countries of the British Com-
monwealth, Australia is immeasurably the
best off. In Britain, prices are still too
high to maintain overseas competition in
an industry in which the main excuse
pleaded for nationalisation was the huge
profits made by private coalowners. In
contrast, the private owners of Australia
are now doing very well on the whole


and the coalminers as a body can look
forward to virtually full employment
when mechanisation is completed. They
have wages and incentives which put
them beyond the right to complain.
Bigger and Better
Scholarships
[From ‘‘Collins Street”]
At first blush it might seem possible
to commend the Victorian A.L.P. con-
ference for departing somewhat from
its familiar list of dreary class and
political resolutions in favor of a motion
to give very high priority to establish-
ment of a system of scholarships and
living-allowances for secondary-schools.
The motion claimed that many
thousands of capable students were
forced to leave school at the end of
the Intermediate year for economic
reasons, and that, despite the magnitude
of the scheme and its large initial cost,
it should be implemented because the
future of young people was jeopardised.
The Labor conference has, in fact, raised
its sights in this recognition of the world-
trend towards better education for all
and the nurturing of the brilliant; but
the scholarship - grants in Victoria are
already of considerable magnitude.
As from January next (based on work
in the current year) there will be 1330
junior-scholarships of four years ; 650
free places (for four years) in State
secondary- or technical-schools ; 1100
Leaving Certificate bursaries ; 550 matri-
culation-bursaries ; 175 diploma-
bursaries; 550 junior - technical, 250
senior - technical and 50 senior-
scholarships. In addition, 80 free places
at the University are awarded for
up to six years, with free admission to
lectures and examinations, plus a living-
allowance of up to £169 a year where
applicable.
About 100 other scholarships, officially
listed as “special” because they are not
provided for by the Government but by
private organisations, also are available,
in nearly every case to all-comers.
It is true the burden of secondary-
education presses heavily on parents, and
the tax-concessions made by the Federal
Government go only a small way for
most parents with children in the higher
grades ; but with nearly 5000 Govern-
ment scholarships alone available already,
children with special aptitudes have at
least a reasonable chance of acquiring
one.
Warnings to Westward
Curiously little has been heard in the
eastern States about the R.A.F. diffi-
culties in establishing its base in the
Maidive Islands, southward of Ceylon,
or of the still-abortive efforts in Western
Australia to secure the building of a
naval base at or near Fremantle. Yet
it is being stressed elsewhere that Britain’s
claim to be a Power in the Pacific is
dependent on the R.A.F.’s ability to trans-
port troops and material with celerity
from Kenya and Middle East bases to
Australia, New Zealand, Singapore and
Hong Kong—and that British ability to
maintain its share of the missile- and
rocket-bases in Australia and to come
to our aid in a limited war depends on
the same R.A.F. service.
India has refused to allow missiles for
testing in Australia to be flown across
Indian territory, and the alternative
staging-post in Ceylon may soon be un-
available.
Awareness of this weak link was the
principal reason why the R.A.F. agreed
in 1956 to build a staging-post (not an
air-base) on Gan Island, in the scattered
Maldives, which have a total population
of about 100,000, all Moslems. The Gan
Islanders have been delighted with the
new prosperity which has thereby come
their way, but the central Government
in Male, 270 miles from Gan, has refused
to sign the agreement which it earlier
initialled, and is proclaiming that the
R.A.F. “Resident” on Gan has carried
out “undesirable and poisonous political
activities,” designed to subvert the Gan
Islanders from their allegiance to Male.
All this is minor in magnitude, but it
is recognised in Perth, if not in Canberra,
that the post is vital to British and Aus-
tralian strategy, and that any more vocal
claims by the Maidive Government might
have unpleasant repercussions in Ceylon,
India and even in the United Nations.
The subject becomes of greater im-
portance when the warning of Paul
McGuire, former Australian Ambassador
in Italy, about the Russian base being
built in Yemen is examined. McGuire
has warned that our communications, and
especially the use of the air- and sea-
facilities at Aden, are threatened by this
base, which has brought Russia to the
Indian Ocean for the first time.
Communist Plot
A warning from Seato headquarters in
Bangkok that a Communist plot to
capture the Labor movement within the
South-east Asian Treaty area is in being,
suggests that Seato’s information-service
is very slow on the up-take.
It is perfectly true that this plot is in
being. Two Russian trade-union leaders
were here months ago to go over the detail
of a scheme of which the foundations
were laid the year before last or earlier.
The plot is a recrudescence of the one
which was framed and handed over to
Jock Garden to implement in the late
1920’5, and which resulted in the forma-
tion of the Pan-Pacific Trades Union
organisation and the Vladivostok con-
ference at which Australia was repre-
sented by leading trade-unionists. It also
resulted in the foundation of the
A.C.T.U. under the Communist-party
aegis.
The present scheme is marked by the
same symptoms. At present there is a
body of leading Indonesian trade-
unionists in Australia from unions with
powerful Communist ingredients, and
there is little doubt that Indonesia is a
central focus of at least an important
regional section of the conspiracy. The
Seato report declares that there the Reds
control the central organisation of Labor
whicß is affiliated with national unions of
textile-workers, estate-workers, railway-
employees, sugar-workers, waterside-
workers and employees of the oil-
industry.
Yet the delegation from the central
core of this body is being received with
open arms in the Commonwealth.
The recent Tokyo transport-conference
of the W.F.T.U., to which Jim Healy
was a delegate, was one manifestation
of the new Pan-Pacific Communist plan.
There is no doubt that since the
reverses it suffered at the time of the
Petrov Commission the Australian Com-
munist Party has been working quietly
and highly successfully inside the A.L.P.
and the Australian trade-unions and in
concert with the parties of South-east
Asian countries.
In the waterside unions, A.R.U.,
engineering and metal-trades, building
and coal it has achieved its primary aim
of having a leading party-member in the
executive as president, secretary, trea-
surer or full-time organiser. It controls
the thinking of the Victorian A.L.P. and
vefy largely that of the leadership of the
Federal executive, which has been per-
meated with its ideas.
The insidious feature of Communist
operations is that the party prefers not
to have majority control, or at least not
openly. It likes to secure its ends
through the drive and personality of its
agents, who honeycomb executives, take
the credit for ideas and push the blame
when necessary on a feeble majority of
non-Communists.
Scientist and Public Servant
External Affairs Minister Casey des-
cribed Sir lan Clunies Ross, who died
in Melbourne on Saturday, as “a great
scientist and a great public servant,” and
no one who knew the man and his work
will dispute the description. Sydney-
born, Clunies Ross graduated in
veterinary-science at Sydney University
in 1921 and began lecturing there on
Veterinary Parasitology two years later.
After post-graduate work at the Insti-
tute of Infectious Diseases in Tokyo, he
became Director of the McMaster
Animal Health Laboratory of the
C.5.1.R.0. in 1931. In 1935-36 he carried
out a survey of the sheep- and wool-
industry in North-east Asia and followed
that up with three years on the Inter-
national Wool Secretariat in London.
During the war years he was Com-
monwealth Director of Scientific Man-
power, and for the past 10 years was
chairman of C.5.1.R.0. Under his
chairmanship the institute grew to world
status. Awarded honorary degrees by
the Universities of Adelaide, Melbourne
and New England, the Gold Medal of
the Royal Agricultural Society of Eng-
land and the James Cook Medal of the
Royal Society of N. S. Wales, Clunies
Ross was knighted in 1954.


Society
"AND ITS
PRINTED WITH
WIMBLE'S INKS"
Tn our peaceful Melbourne suburb
Dad and I generally manage
a Sunday morning sleep - in, but
yesterday ominous sounds from ' an
awake and restless four-year-old suggested
an invitation into our bed. Warning
him not to disturb Dad, 1 settled down
until a hoarse whisper asked how soon
could he get up. “Not till the milkman
comes,” said I sourly, lapsing again into
unconsciousness. This time the expostu-
lation was desperate: “But Mum, the
milkman’s too fat to fit; he’d disturb
Dad! ” The understatement of the week.
—“Wandobah.”
❖ ♦♦♦ ►;«
“C.S.”: Lady Herring, wife of the
Chief Justice of Victoria, asked a C.W.A.
audience whether plays and stories about
canecutters and bookmakers give people
in other countries any idea of what Aus-
tralians are really like, mentioning the
murder and two attempted murders in
“The Bastard Country” as well.
Get those ghosts and murderers out of
“Hamlet,” Bill, and no more addled
ladies from you, Tennessee!
* ♦> ❖
“Bicky”: The snappy light - cream
utility, which carried three happy, laugh-
ing Salvation Army men, occasioned
hardly a glance from me as it sped
through the city traffic—until I spied the
furry wolf’s-tail fluttering from its radio-
aerial. Hounds of Heaven, no doubt.
❖ * *
“Ceg”: Victoria’s division of the
Associated Poultry Farmers of Australia
suggests increasing the consumption of
henfruit in that State by setting-up a
Chair of Poultry Husbandry at the Mel-
bourne University. I don’t know so much
about a chair: what’s wrong with a
nice cosy box with plenty of clean straw
in it? it would be of interest to see what
a broody professor could do in a practical
way.
*z* ♦>
“Mugga Way”: Memories of a banal
song of the first year of World War II
will be stirred at the news that progress
is being made with removing the last
vestiges of the Siegfried Line. Since
1957, when clearance work got under
way, 343 bunkers have been removed,
as well as more than two miles of vertical
tank-traps and 36 other fortified installa-
tions. Nearly 400 acres of land have been
returned to agriculture. Wonder what’s
happened to the Maginot Line?
, ♦> * *
“B. A. Ker”: “It’s murder!” I heard
an irate motorist declare after bailing-out
his car from the tow-aw'ay pound in
Phillip Street, Sydney. The same thing
had been said on that spot, but with a
far grimmer meaning, long before car-
parking presented any problems. The
pound is on the site of an old house
which was never known by any other
name than “164 Phillip Street.” Back in
the 1920’s a young girl was bashed to
death in her bed in the basement and
“Daddy hates leaving us, dear, but he's got to go to his job."
her dog killed beside her. So far as I
remember, the house still held secret
the murderer’s identity when it was
demolished in 1956.
♦♦♦ *Z+
‘Ticki”: After airing a most monstrous
piece of canned rubbish recently, the
announcer declared that it was currently
rated No. 79 on the American charts. A
most liberal rating, if somewhat inane-
like the promising young actress who
was cast as “third prostitute” in the
amateur production of an American low-
life drama.
♦♦♦
“Enn-Kay”: Had always supposed that
it was a Welsh custom to christen people
after their trade: Price the Sweetshop,
Morgan .the Post, etc., but lately I’ve
picked-up the ringing phone several
times to hear, “This is the lawnmower”
■ —“refrigerator” “new tap” and so
forth. Is this a new habit creeping into
our syntax, or one of long standing that
I happen not to have noticed before?
“J.J.A.”: Future generations will regret
the removal of veranda awning-posts
along the streets, as “Manamoi” suggests
(B. 3 / 6/’59). Removal seems to be the
policy of all shires and boroughs in Vic-
toria. Yet where will the charm of
Bridge Street, Ballarat, be when all the
veranda-posts have disappeared and the
city has merely another narrow street
of flashy modern shops, and no character?
Many of our towns have, or in more
cases had, streets as picturesque as the
Rows of Chester, and even they, believe
me, would be happily destroyed in the
interests of uniformity if our Australian
civic fathers had any say in Chester’s
affairs.
THE POOR OLD PARTY
“Delegates to the N. S. Wales State A.L.P.
conference in Sydney failed in an attempt to
aid party-funds by levying 2\ per cent, of
Federal and State politicians’ salaries.”
“Remember me ? I knew you when,
My hoity-toity gentlemen,
I bumped you into Parliament,
And now is two-and-a-half per cent.
Of what you earn too much to give
To help a poor old Party live ?’’
“We’d give you more, old fellow, if
It were not for the words of Chif.:
How often he was heard attack
Firms that ploughed their profits back !
As lifelong foes of Capital
We cant abandon Principal ! ”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Second Shackle”: Add to lan Mudie’s
aids for Latin that of “Feet” Allen, Latin
Master of Albury (N.S.W.) High School
46 years ago, and not a great admirer
of my skill at hoisting in the subject,
declaimed whilst swishing a fearsome,
flexible six-foot cane:
Amo, amas,
I loved a lass,
For she was tall and slender;
Alas, alack,
I knocked her flat,
Although of the feminine gender.
“Barra”: lan Mudie (B. 3/6/59)
omits the valiant:
Sticks and stones
May break my bones,
But names will never hurt me;
and also when, from opposite footpaths,
homegoing pupils from rival schools
ripped the welkin with the sectarian:
Proddy (or Paddy ) dogs
Jump like frogs
In a pail of water.
Probably before Mudie's day, when
streets were gas-lit, the appearance of
the bike-riding lighter was greeted
with:
Lamp-lighter, flea-biter,
Had a wife and couldn’t fight her;
Had another, didn’t love her;
Up the chimney he did shove her .
“Choices”: lan Mudie omitted the
classic:
Lloyd George knows my father.
Father knows Lloyd George;
sung to the tune of “Onward Christian
Soldiers”; that is the entire lyric. It
is still top of the hit-parade in U.K.
schools. Not so long ago at a party in
Kuala Lumpur I conducted an im-
promptu choir of mixed voices in it.
None had been long out of class. I’ve
heard a topical variation sung in this
country:
Menzies knows my father,
Father he knows Bob.
And what about the brutal accusation
to “Men of Harlech”?
“Sohano”: Those reminiscent rhymes
of 40 years ago recall another told by
my father even longer ago and not, I
think, without ulterior motive, that he
heard as a child from his English
mother:
Her ain’t a calling a we,
Us don’t belong to she.
Now, as an invigilator at public examina-
tions, when scanning the English papers
I've often thought it could well be
included in “Correct the following
sentences.”
*J* <?♦ ❖
“Saucy Sue”: Travelling in the south
with his wife, Dad wrote to say that the
hotel proprietress had introduced them
to another middle-aged couple who
turned-out to be old acquaintances. It
was the “another” that set me wonder-
ing—although his wife is much younger,
Dad is rising 88!
* *
“Bicky”: Competition must be stiff
in the dry-cleaning world judging by the
bait being thrown-out by Melbourne
“Someone ought to get an extra stripe for THIS haul”
firms. Twenty-four-hour service has been
reduced to same-day service, and home
collection and delivery of dry-cleaning
is becoming the rule. One film is giving
free to each customer a goldfish in a
plastic water-filled bowl and one month’s
supply of goldfish food, while another
is offering to replace shirts it launders
as they wear out.
*:♦ ❖ ❖
“Hick”: Juvenile Westerns and Adult
Westerns have been with us quite a while,
but now our theatre is billing its latest
horse-opera: “For Deep Thinking
Western Fans!”
♦♦♦ ***
V V ♦
“Ceg”: A dear old lady had to pay-out
£4OO. Toddling into the bank, she sat
down to write her cheque. Alas, her
handbag was minus her cheque-book.
The teller explained that cheque-forms
had to be obtained from the cheque-book
clerk. The young lass in charge of that
department was most obliging ; she not
only filled-in the cheque for the old
lady, but also added the old lady’s
signature to it. If that’s not service, I'll
eat a moneybox.
♦> ♦>
“L. 8.5.”: No need to waggle a
collection-box when Auckland’s (N.Z.)
harbor-bridge was opened on May 30 by
the G.-G., Viscount Cobham. Even the
oldest cars fluttered to life at the exciting
prospect of rolling across instead of
being rocked across by vehicular ferry.
At 2s. 6d. a car, toll-boxes were deluged
with silver. Since the four-lane bridge
is for road - traffic only, the humble
pedestrian was allowed to walk across
before the official opening, and all but
the halt and maimed did so. Lacking
the majestic proportions of Sydney’s, the
cantilever structure should suffice for a
few years. The problem of enlargement
or a second bridge may then have to be
faced. Some of Auckland’s smallish
passenger-ferries, sold to another com-
pany for a mere £32,000, continue to ply,
to the delight of sentimentalists.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Jesmondene”: I reckon “H.C.8.” is
talking through his mortarboard when
he says that the apprentice-electrician
(B. 10/6/’59) should learn his customer-
relations ethics at his mother’s knee and
not at tech. He may derive from a home
carpeted with wheat-bags where every-
body smokes everywhere always. Why
should that handicap him in his career?
General Electric of U.S. don’t leave it
to chance or mother’s knee ; they even
instruct their journeymen how to behave
when the lady of the house answers their
knock in her negligee —by resolutely
backing-off the doormat while saying
clearly, “I shall call back later, madam,
when it is more convenient."
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ *i*
“Bo”: I’d thought the odd ways of
women had ceased to surprise me —their
sacrilegious use of beer to rinse their
hair ; their putting dead matches back
into the box ; their blind belief that roll-
ons will stretch four or five ways ; wear-
ing shapeless sack-monstrosities which
blunt the very weapons they depend on ;
the innocent wonder they express when
the tube of toothpaste they will squeeze
from the. top busts out at the bottom ;
their habit of putting lipstick on and
immediately sucking half of it off in their
efforts to moisten it ; buying a dress-
maker’s model and then fitting the dress
they’ve just made on Shirl over the road
because she’s much the same height and


weight. But even I, long hardened in
the fires of boudoirs, lifted an eyebrow
when, big-hearted-Otis-like, I brought
home for the wife a pair of stockings
and was coldly informed they weren’t
quite right. The llesh-color was right on
the beam, but they had seams. It seems
that they had to be seamless the better
to render them invisible. “The ultimate
object,” I observed, “is apparently a
stocking that makes you look as if you
weren’t wearing any.” “Well, yes,” she
agreed. “Then, why wear any at all?” I
asked. The look I copped was around
90 per cent, pity, 10 per cent, scorn.
♦j *j*
“Mugga Way”: Scotland never scorns
the foreign bawbees, and last year that
“knuckle-end of England, that land of
Calvin, oat-cakes and sulphur,” raked-in
£l3 million sterling from some 430,000
tourists, including a lot of visitors from
Australia. How many Scots tourists
come to Australia in return?
T had heard of it, but on Anzac
Day I actually saw it carried at
the head of an R.A.A.F. unit marching
in Melbourne; the banner with the
motto “Nil Illegitimus Carborundum
which, being freely translated, means
“Don’t let those born out of wedlock
grind you down.—“ Orion.”
❖ *l* *X+
“One Over Nine”: Tell “Ceg” (B.
3/6/’59) that my American dictionary
shows Pastrami as a noun: smoked beef,
heavily seasoned and usually cut from the
shoulder. Evidently blade-bone steak.
*Z* ❖
“Saucy Sue”: Waited outside the
phone-booth while the wife of a married
couple, who between them hold three
They 're just back from a cruise on a ducky Wee coachhouse-sloop."
jobs, made a call. It was to the furniture-
shop, about a £250-purchase: “We
couldn’t manage the full deposit yet, but
would it be all right if we put a deposit
on the deposit?” And so a piano joined
the h.-p. items in a home where the store
bill is above the half-century mark.
<£♦ *3*
“5 G.R.”: Re kh&ki-clad soldiers (B.
27 /5 / ’59), the famous Corps of Guides,
Indian Army, comprising cavalry and
infantry, were the first in British history
to wear khaki. Lt. Lumsden, who raised
the corps vof many races and creeds,
found the cavalry so trussed-up that some
could scarcely mount without assistance,
and the bright uniforms of infantry too
conspicuous and unworkmanlike and
their footwear shoddy. So he made
Delhi shudder by. ordering a “dun-colored
uniform, loose-fitting and good substan-
tial boots.” Tradition dies hard, but the
Mutiny stopped the frowns and argu-
ment. Ordered at a moment’s notice to
march to Delhi, the Guides covered the
500-odd miles at the hottest time of the
year in the hottest part of the world.
The infantry averaged 27 miles a day,
not including diversions to suppress local
insurrections, and went straight into
action. By nightfall half the infantry
had been killed in repeated charges. So
that was the beginning of the end of
red-coats in war.
“Narumee”: “Quin” is not only an
abbreviation for a multiple birth, but
also a word in its own right, meaning
“a kind .of scallop.” A “xyst” is a
“covered portico used by athletes for
their exercises,” and “ixtle” is another
form of “istle.” What is “istle”? Why,
a valuable fibre, of course, obtained from
a tropical American plant. Melbourne’s
freeze engendered the resurrecting of
word-making games during the holidays
in our TV-less home, which is why I
know the meaning of “skail,” “neist,”
“ged,” “kvass,” “urf,” “yex” and
“jabiru.”
❖ *x*
“Arma”: Domestic science school-
girls, mentioned by “Judee” (B. 3/6/’59),
may have been able to outclass the cook
of the U.S. submarine Blackfin in fancy
cooking, but if he had been trained in
the same naval cookery-school as the
cook of the U.S.S. Nautilus, in which
I spent 72 hours during 1943’, he would
be hard to beat at good plain cooking,
The Nautilus cook, a young university
student, with no previous sea-training,
but anxious to serve in submarines, volun-
teered as a cook and passed a course at
a naval cookery-school. The bread he
cooked each night surpassed any that I
have ever eaten, and the meals were as
tasty as one could get anywhere. But
cooks had to be good in that service—or
else. The crew told me that the cook
on the previous tour of duty was thrown
overboard when the Nautilus arrived at
its home-base as an indication to the
authorities that a new cook was needed.
* *
>* ~ ,
® e f™, : hav ? n 1 s f en V ou f ° r
a whll =- T 1? matron turned
‘° * r “‘ her fnend ' No, P. and C. have
bee ? keeping me pretty busy. Ive just
"’ ade ; u P e, S bt P°™ ds ° f r J° r tbem :
Sweetsiseem to se best but I refused
0 " lake t offee - 11 ss ° badf ° r the k ! d ?
teetb ' and on Pnncple 1 just wouldn t
make any more. Then I felt a heel be-
cauf ,he * bava " 1 enough helpers, so I
, made , marshmallows Such a nu.sance
t°°, toffee is so much easier.
THE BLACK MAN’S BURDEN
“Abyssinian women are doing more and
more of the heavy outside work that used
to be exclusively the men's prerogative. The
husband never does any household chores,
this being considered degrading for him.” —
From an A.B.C. travel-talk.
The men who dwell
In that far land
Never rebel
When dames demtini
The right to slog
Into a log,
Or pull a plough behind ’em.
This gracious due
They grant their wives:
The privilege to
Lead strenuous lives.
They don't get mad
At such a fad —
In fact, more jobs they find ’em.
They’ll set this chance
A gainst the gain :
Predominance
In man’s domain >
Might make a girl
Less of a pearl
Of feminine allurement.
At the same time,
They’ve made it clear
That man’s sublime
Status he’d smear
With household work.
Quite a good lurk,
This self-imposed abjurement!
Don’t pity as
Some backward bloke
(Who all he has
To do is smoke
All day, and screw
At women who
Hoe in), this Ethiopian.
His strife does her
Own toil, AND his.
This I’ll aver:
He knows his bizd
I ask : Are we
As close as he
To living life Utopian?
N.S.VV.
S.W.K.


No Hangover
“Hars Been Matured in Wod”
By JOHN HARNETTY
American researchers who say
science has found a hangover-
proof synthetic whisky have dis-
covered nothing new. The dis-
covery of a hangover-proof synthetic
whisky was made 10 years ago by a
Japanese bootlegger—but history doesn’t
relate that he ever patented it.
The Japanese discovery seems to have
followed the same research-line as that
examined by the American Chemical
Society—with one sharp difference.
The Americans say they found a way
of disposing of two substances which
allegedly cause hangovers —acetaldehyde
and fuse-oil. A decade ago, the Japa-
nese bootlegger may have found he
couldn’t dispose of these two little
gremlin-breeders, so he compensated for
them—and a story goes with it.
Attention was first attracted to this
Japanese bootlegger because quantities of
strange liquor were finding their way into
the hands—and gizzards—of American
troops in occupation zones around Kobe
and Osaka. Special Investigation Branch
men from British Commonwealth and
United States Forces found bottles of'
the bootleg liquor and examined them
with interest.
Bottles used were those in which a
popular cheap brand of Australian
whisky was packed. The labels looked
like the standard Australian label, but
slight changes had been made. Instead
of the company’s seal, which normally
decorated the centre of the label, a crown
had been substituted, and the name of
the whisky had been changed to “Special
Old Crown.”
Normally, no undue suspicion as to
the genuineness of the article would have
arisen in a Gl’s mind—apart from the
fact that the legend at the top of the
label read: “Hars been matured in wod
over mamy years.”
Since the bottles were of Australian
origin, and since the labels were obvious
fakes of a well-known Australian liquor
brand, the Americans tossed the task of
detection into the hands of the Australian
Occupation Force’s 5.1.8.
The task of detection took a few weeks,
but finally the bootlegger was run-down
through a tip from a Japanese employed
as an Occupation Forces mess-steward.
He told of a Japanese rag - and - bone
merchant who seemed anxious to get
hold of certain types of Australian
whisky-bottles, and would pay well for
them. This seemed odd, since the bottles
were expendable containers, anyway.
The steward ultimately put the finger
on the rag-and-bone man, and the rag-
and-bone man in turn put the finger on
the bootlegger, who told all when con-
fronted by the Special Investigation
Branch men.
The 5.1.8. seized a new batch of the
brew, which was simmering away to
itself in the bootlegger’s hideout. It was
sent for analysis to the 8.C.0.F. General
Hospital to see if it contained torpedo-
juice, denatured alcohol, or some other
form of liquefied dynamite.
And here’s where the shock came in!
The hospital analysts cleared the liquor
as being “completely potable, containing
a few organic ingredients not readily
identified, but otherwise quite harmless.”
The 5.1.8. men congratulated the boot-
legger on the purity of his grog, and then
asked him —what the devil's in it? The
recipe for this liquor would make the
witches’ brew of Macbeth sound like a
baby-food formula.
He had used stolen medical alcohol to
give it the initial kick. He mixed this
with water so the profit-margin wouldn’t
be much lower than exorbitant. Then he
added coloring-matter, such as burnt
sugar, with Japanese mustard to give it
a bit of a sting.
There were other local herbs and
simples to give this Japanese white mule
a pleasant taste and pleasant aroma —
then came the final, the most significant
refinement of all.
Out of due consideration for his-clients,
the Japanese bootlegger had whipped-in
a good proportion of a plant called
saburan—prized by Japanese herbalists as
a specific against headache!
Since he hadn’t poisoned anybody in
the Occupation Forces, there wasn’t
much the Australian authorities could
do about it. However, they did take
steps to make sure he wouldn’t get more
Australian-made empties to keep his
business going. The old printer who
made the labels was
completely in the
clear. He pointed out
that he knew nothing
about English, and
had accepted the
label - job merely as
a little more rice for
the mat. That “Hars
been matured in wod
over mamy years”
established his inno-
cence beyond all
reasonable doubt . . .
It was about this
time that another
printing problem
worried the Occupa-
tion authorities, but
it wasn’t concerned
with faked labels on
bootleg liquor. It
was the rather deli-
cate matter of cir-
culation of forged
ten-dollar U.S. Occu-
pation scrip. Special scrip was used
by both U.S. and British forces in Japan
to prevent currency-juggling—but a Japa-
nese printer in Hiroshima did a little
currency-juggling on his own.
The alarm was raised when forged ten-
dollar scrip was found in United States
Army post exchanges, or canteens,
around Kobe and Osaka. The Japanese
printer who produced the forged money
was run-down finally in a little two-by-
four commercial printery right on a
Hiroshima tramway-line near where the
first atom-bomb fell. Here, tenacious
Japanese survivors had set-up shanty
offices, workshops and homes on the
business-as-usual-during-alterations basis.
The forger gave himself away by over-
looking a simple thing. He had hired the
little printing-shop by night, but left no
waste behind for the shop’s apprentice
to clear-up in the morning! Since Japa-
nese police had been warned to check
printing-shops, the apprentice told the
boss printer, who told the police of the
strange behavior of his shop’s night-
tenant.
That’s how the 5.1.8. men caught the
printer, who confessed that he had made
plates from a “collected” ten-dollar piece
of scrip, and printed his notes in reason-
ably correct style during the night—
shielded from the curious eyes of the
locals by only a paper-thin curtain.
His notes weren’t bad, considering the
primitive conditions in which they were
made. But it was the very fact that he
was so tidy that put curious authorities
on his trail. So ended the attempt by a
small-time Japanese forger to rattle the
very doors of Fort Knox.
“Pains in the right foot, too, eh? That's what the bloke
down at the works had. He ain't with us no more."


POLITICAL POINTS
Was all that fuss about the shape of
the Geneva table really worth while?.
• •
At 76 Eamon de Valera becomes
President of Eire, after 21 years as Prime
Minister. Leader of the Fianna Fail, he
formed his first Goverpment in 1932
and continued in office till his party lost
its majority at the 1948 election. After
three years in Opposition he made a
comeback in 1951, went out again in
1954 and returned for his third term
two years ago.
De Valera’s resignation was announced
after voting for the Presidential election
had closed, but before counting had
finished. Dev. is assumed to have made
a pretty shrewd estimate of the result
before resigning as P.M. His opponent
was General Sean MacEoin, leader of the
Fine Gael party.
• •
Nowadays the “S. M- Herald” never
loses a chance to heave a banana-skin
at the P.M. It has adopted implicitly
the yarn that he was charged to convince
the French and the West Germans of
the need for a Summit Conference and
that he “faced defeat in Paris —just as he
failed in Germany yesterday.... .even
before he arrived in Bonn from Britain.”
The most Menzies could have been asked
to do was to express the Australian
view. Macmillan and Eisenhower may
be weaklings, but they have scarcely
abdicated world leadership.
• •
Joynton Smith got one. Hugh D.
Mclntosh didn’t. Frank Packer did.
• •
The strike of workers who are not
satisfied with conditions on the sheep-
transport ship Delfino should be enough
to make any heart bleed. The poor
fellows are drawing-down only from £BO
to £9O for their week’s pay for condition-
ing the ship, and a cruel and hard-
hearted proprietary is refusing them
disability-pay. Meanwhile, the Fijian
crew who are to suffer the conditions
complained-of for the whole voyage are
as merry as larks; but they, of course,
are Fijians, a backward people apparently
who do not recognise misery when it
takes them by the throat. Or perhaps
they are not accessible to Communists.
• •
The president of the N.S.W. A.L.P.
says that he hopes Lord Mayor Jensen
of Sydney will enter Federal politics. If
he does he will put a very different face
on the party’s prospects if he can rise
to leadership. But he will need an iron
neck to survive—every careerist in the
Old Guard will bring his strangling rope
to welcome him.
• •
The Citizens Reform Association is
calling for nominations for candidates
for Sydney City Council elections to be
held in December. The Liberal party is
not nominating any candidates ; the three
aldermen elected as Liberals last time
will nominate as C.R.A. candidates.
Nominations close on July 10.
• •
According to official documents pub-
lished in Djakarta, Indonesian leaders
originally planned for an Indonesian State
to include all the former Dutch East
Indies, plus the whole of New Guinea,
Malaya, British Borneo and Portuguese
Timor. This proposal was made at a
meeting of the preparatory committee
while Japan was still in occupa-
tion of Java. It was put forward
by Professor Mohammed Yamin and
carried by 39 votes to 19, after Dr.
Hatta, now Vice-President of Indonesia,
had opposed it, saying that he doubted
if the people of Papua belonged to the
Indonesian group of peoples and that he
believed they were Melanesians. Hatta
preferred to limit the boundaries of the
republic to the Dutch East Indies. Pro-
fessor Yamin is a Minister of State in the
present Government.
• •
[From Canberra]
Royal Tour authorities have devised a novel
—if nothing else—manner in choosing up to
200 Canberra residents in the 18-25-years age-
group to lunch with Princess Alexandra.
An advertisement in the “Canberra Times”
invites persons in that age-group to submit
their names to the Prime Minister’s Depart-
ment. The powers-that-be will then sort the
applicants—and there are 3500 “possibles” —■
into categories representing various bodies and
organisations, such as students, farmers, graziers,
public servants, and industrial and commercial,
church, youth and sporting groups and New
Aussies. A ballot will then decide the final 200.
The authorities assert that there’ll be no
“string-pulling” to get to the luncheon, which
will be the opening social function of the
Princess’s tour.
Hosts will be Prime Minister Menzies and
Dame Pattie Menzies, and the luncheon will
be completely informal—a buffet-affair —and
the Princess will spend about an hour-and-a-
half mixing freely with the guests.
"Y' cruel cow! Why don't you let us kill 'em here?”


Melbourne’s Footscray, which took its
name from the little Kentish town of
Foots on the River Cray, celebrated its
centenary with an admirable list of
exhibitions, shows of arts, processions,
craftwork, sports, church and official
functions, and, as an earnest of changing
Australia, with substantial contributions
from the Footscray Poles, including a
traditional Polish procession with a huge
wreath of wheat.
With about 65,000 people, Footscray is
the highest - ranking Melbourne suburb
industrially and one of the fastest grow-
ing, with some of the nation’s biggest
factories. It seems a long time ago since
Footscray’s only claim to fame was all-
pervasive . smells, and a typical Tom
Glover sketch could show one Melburnian
asking another, “How does living in
Footscray compare with St. Kilda?” —
getting the malapropian reply, “My dear
fellow, the comparison is odorous.”
» •
Cahill doesn't see any necessity for
calling Parliament together before August
in order to enable the Speaker to issue
writs for a by-election for the Lismore
seat, declared vacant by the Court of
Disputed Returns. Yet he felt obliged
to call a special sitting of both Houses
to fill a casual vacancy for the Legislative
Council. It was a foregone 'conclusion
that the Council vacancy would be filled
by a Labor nominee ; it's also a foregone
conclusion that Lismore will be won by
a non-Labor candidate. That, of course,
has nothing to do with the Government’s
attitude.
Perhaps Country-party leader Cutler
is pulling rather too long a face when
he pictures the sad plight of
left for three months without a Parlia-
mentary representative. Lismore will no
doubt survive that privation, but for that
matter the State would not have lost any
sleep if it had had to struggle along till
August one man short on the payroll of
the Legislative Council.
Cahill’s policy is short-sighted. In a
few months’ time he’ll be asking for
higher pay for M.P.s and he and others
will be repeating the Canberra story of
the terrific amount of electorate work a
member has to do. That’ll be the cue for
someone to remind him that the electors
of Lismore were left for months without
any elected rep. to whom they could take
their troubles.
• •
A new source of gypsum is to be
developed by the C.S.R. on
Kangaroo Island, South Australia. The
deposit, in the bed of a shallow lake
near American River, is estimated to
contain two-million tons of workable
gypsum, and the project involves the
construction of a deep-sea port near
Ballast Head, with a jetty and mechanical-
loading equipment. South Australia’s
present production of gypsum is about
250,000 tons a year.
• •
Employment figures improved during
May, according to a survey issued by
the Department of Labor and Industry.
Unemployment registered with the Com-
monwealth Employment Service dropped
by 1594 to 67,621. All States except
Queensland and Tasmania shared the
improvement, with N.S.W. showing the
biggest fall (1212). The number receiving
unemployment-benefit rose by 365 to
27,924, which was 642 higher than at the
end of May last year. In the same period
job vacancies registered with the C.E.S.
rose by 2956 to 20,373.
It is interesting to note that despite
further dismissals on the N.S.W. coalfields,
N.S.W. showed an improvement both in
the number of unemployed registered
and in the number on unemployment-
benefit. The survey says many coal-
miners were absorbed into other industries
in Newcastle during the year.
There is no room for smugness over
any of these figures, but at least they
provide no ground for calamity-crying
of the type that is the stock-in-trade of
certain Labor politicians.
• •
The B.M.A. in Victoria has recom-
mended that by a fixed date safety-belts
should be compulsory equipment on all
cars. It seems likely that they will
become mandatory for official cars, at
least. Police like them; the 75 cars
already fitted are those most in demand
by police crews and so far those which
have been involved in minor accidents
have had no injured crewmen.
• •
From now until Budget-time Treasurer
Holt may expect truckloads of advice
on what taxation-cuts he should make
and why. The Associated Chambers of
Commerce have just weighed-in with
recommendations for the reduction or
elimination of payroll-tax ; reduction in
company-tax by removing the remaining
sixpence of the Is. added as an emergency
measure 2\ years ago", increased depre-
ciation allowances.
The chambers claim that higher - tax
receipts and improved loan-prospects have
made-these concessions possible, and that
their implementation would help to lower
costs, would stimulate investment and
increase the rate of national development.
R. W. C. Anderson, director of the
Associated Chambers, urges the necessity
of these cuts in order to offset the rise
in costs caused by this month’s Federal
basic-wage increase. .
• •
An A.L.P. conference motion to levy
State and Federal Labor politicians
sixpence-in-the-pound on their salaries in
order to set -up a public - relations
secretariat was deftly avoided by the
executive. Efforts to get the motion dis-
cussed early on the last day of the con-
ference failed, and when it finally reached
the top of the agenda there were only
three minutes left before closing-time.
By the time the motion had been pro-
posed and the chairman had commented
that there didn’t seem to be enough time
to give it fair discussion, there wasn’t
time to give it anything but a wharfie’s
farewell.
“Ex-ACT”: When the Russians re-
turned to Canberra they had “beaming
smiles” (B. 17/6/’59). There were no
smiles at all when they left in pouring
rain in 1954, and the only “incident”
happened to me and wasn’t seen by any-
one else. I got to the airfield early, and
the only Russian there was the First
Secretary, one Vishinsky, who was super-
intending the loading of luggage. (I’d
been a visitor a few weeks earlier in
his home, pursuing an innocent editorial
instruction to find “how the Russians
lived in Canberra.”) I was prepared to
say good-bye formally to him, but he at
first ignored me. At last he came down
the steps from the plane, walked across
the tarmac to one of the big wagons that
had brought the trunks, and then
beckoned to me. I went across, and as
I got near he gestured at me and then
flung a penny down at my feet, pre-
sumably to indicate either utter contempt
or his evaluation of my merits. It was
a great temptation* to pick-up the coin
as a memento, but 1 resisted it and
walked away.
• •
One undoubted effect of the main-
tenance of West Berlin as an outpost
of Western Europe is the opportunity it
offers to the unfortunates in East Ger-
many to seek refuge and freedom. East
Germany must be the only nation in the
world with a decreasing population. Ten
years ago it had 18,892,000 inhabitants ;
today’s figure should be 21 million at
the normal rate of growth. The official
figures, however, show the total now is
17,310,670. The fall is partly due to the
low birthrate, but mostly to the constant
stream of refugees to the Federal
Republic.
• •
“Mrs. Beeton”: If the Scorfield cartoon
on Budget-making (B. 17/6/’59) is correct
it's going to be a fairly rich concoction
—although the “eggs” may really be
“plums” for the upper public servants,
now restive because their Ministers are
getting higher wages and perks. It looks
as though there’ll be some pepper in it,
and the salt may be for “Pinches to be
taken by taxpayers with the Budget.”
Cook McEwen obviously insisted on the
butter to help the dairying industry, and
if the wage-increase is put into the basin
in one lump the whole thing is going to
overflow, with sticky results for all. Let’s
hope it will be a cheerful cartoon when
the pie is publicly opened in August.
© •
Over a recent year the Victorian Police
Accident Appreciation Squad, a shrewd
collection of The Boys with no bees in
their bonnets, found that liquor was a
factor in 94 of 173 road-accidents, and,
of 125 deaths in these accidents, liquor
was a main contributing factor in 65.
On these figures the prohibitionists
have been a mere 50 per cent, wrong,
and the brewers have been a mere 50 per
cent, wrong. It would be unfair to claim
that either has been more misleading
than the other.


Personal
ITEMS
Donald Cheek, one of the cleverest
medical scientists turned-out in Australia
in recent years, has returned from the
U.S. to take-up a senior research and
consulting position at the Royal
Children’s Hospital, Melbourne.
Soon after the war Dr. Cheek, an
Adelaide graduate, began research work
into Pink-disease in small children and
he completed this in the U.S., where he
took his D.Sc. at Cincinatti and worked
in the same laboratory with Dr. Albert
Sabin while he was developing a live
anti-polio vaccine.
He resigned as Associate Professor of
Pediatrics at Texas University, Dallas,
to take-up his new Melbourne appoint-
ment. He had eight years in research in
the U.S., where the Government provides
300-million dollars a year for it. Canberra
provides about £250,000 —in a flush year.
• •
Born at Geraldton (W.A.) 36 years
ago, Ronald Darling Wilson, who’s just
been appointed Crown Prosecutor in
Westralia, started as a junior in the Clerk
of Court’s office in his home-town.
Transferred to the Crown Law Depart-
ment, Perth, in 1939, he took time off
for War II and. served with the R.A.A.F.
in England, piloting Spitfire and Tempest
fighters. After demob, he took a recon-
struction-course in law at the Westralian
University, and graduating with first-
class honors in 1949 was admitted to
practice in 1951 and became Solicitor,
Crown Law or, as it became re-
designated in 1954, Assistant Crown
Prosecutor.
• •
Edmund Osborn Milne coined the
phrase “Australia Unlimited” and it’s
been his motto all his life. It’s impossible
to listen to Ted Milne without catching
his enthusiasm. For that matter, it’s
impossible to meet him without feeling
the world’s a better place. He’s a man
whose only enemies are abstract—he’s
against indolence and procrastination,
because these are the opposite of his own
dynamic energy, and he’s against any
injustice that may fall upon his country
or his fellow-men.
Born at Bundanoon (N.S.W.) in 1886,
Milne (pictured here to the life by Aria)
followed his father into the N.S.W.
Government Railways. He joined them
in 1901 and served for 50 years, becoming
superintendent of passenger-transporta-
tion before retiring in 1951. Meantime,
he got his first commission, in 1910, as
railway-representative in the Australian
Intelligence Corps, and, on the outbreak
in 1914, organised the Ist Australian Rail-
way Supply Detachment, went away with
it, and found himself controlling Army
Corps supplies to Anzac Beach. Various
important staff - appointments under
Generals Birdwood and Monash followed,
and he ended as major, with D.S.O. and
“mention.” Keeping on with military ser-
vice, he had command of the 34th
Battalion (Illawarra Regiment) from
1937-39, and in War II went overseas
again, as A.A. and Q.M.G. of the 2nd
A.I.F. Overseas Base and 7th Australian
Division. Returning in 1941, Colonel
Milne served at L.H.Q. until 1944, finally
going on the retired-list in 1946.
He’s a foundation-member and past-
president of Legacy, which takes much
AUSTRALIA UNLIMITED
of his time nowadays, though he also
manages to be secretary of the Forestry
Advisory Council and of the Hawkesbury
Scenic Preservation Council.
• •
The award of a Carnegie travel-grant
takes 29-year-old John Greenway, lecturer
in mathematics and science at the Clare-
mont (W.A.) Teachers’ College, to the
U.S. There he’ll be the first overseas
student to attend a summer-institute in
mathematics, sponsored by the National
Science Foundation of America and held
at Princeton University, New Jersey.
After study at Princeton, he will look
into methods of training teachers at
various other education-centres.
• •
“M.T.P.” (Fiji): Met here in Suva,
J. J. Richard, a Frenchman who lives in
Switzerland, and who became interested
in volcanoes when he was a planter in
Java. Later he spent 18 years in Kenya,
where he helped to compile a catalogue
of active volcanoes in Africa and around
the Red Sea. At present, with another
expert, he’s investigating the vulcanicity
of the New Hebrides at the invitation
of the Condominium Government. When
last seen he was just off on a month’s
trip to the active volcano in the Tongan
Islands
• •
Pat Lawlor: Besides the four new
knights (B. 17/6/’59), prominent New
Zealanders included in the Birthday
Honors list were Prime Minister Nash,
with C.H.; Dr. R. A. Falla, director of the
Dominion Museum, and the Rev. H. J.
Ryburn, master of Knox College, both
C.M.G.; and there were four C.B.E.s,
12 0.8. E.s —including Dr. P. D. Cameron,
now almost blind as the result of his
radiological work—and two 1.5.0.5;
while the 16 M.B.E.s included Arthur
Helm, secretary of the Antarctic Society.
• •
E. Badian, old-boy of Christchurch
(N.Z.) Boys’ High and now lecturer at
the University of Durban, has been
awarded the Conington Prize for his work
Foreign Clientelae, published by the
Oxford University Press in 1958. The
award, made triennially for the work of
an Oxford graduate on a subject of
classical learning, makes Badian’s third —
he won the Craven Fellowship and the
Roman Scholarship in 1950.
• •
“R.R.D.”: H.M. 50th Foot, affec-
tionately known as “the Dirty Half-
hundred,” and politely and correctly,
until their recent amalgamation with the
Queen’s —as The Queen’s Own Royal
West Kent Regiment, has had several
distinguished members flitting through
these pages in the past 12 months. One
of these is “Don” (Lunnis Donovan),
who works in The Bulletin office and
makes my journalistic days brighter by
his tales of the old army. He will be
delighted to know that Lieut.-General
Sir Henry Oliver, the present colonel of
his old corps, is coming to Australia to
succeed Lord Carrington as British High
Commissioner.
General Oliver joined the Regiment
from Sandhurst in 1921 and held a
number of important staff-appointments
during War 11. Since then he has been
Chief Army Inspector, Imperial Defence
College; Chief-of-Staff to the British
High Commissioner in Malaya ; G.0.C.,
Berlin and Vice-Chief of the Imperial
General Staff. Recently he did a spell
as military adviser to the Commonwealth
Relations Office.
• •
Retiring after 20 years as Dean of
the Faculty of Dentistry at Adelaide
University, Dr. T. D. Campbell, born
at Millicent (S.A.), was educated at Prince
Alfred College and Adelaide Uni., and
was one of the first to receive the degree
of B.D.Sc. there (1921). He followed
this by becoming a D.D.Sc. in 1925 for
his thesis on the teeth of Australian
aborigines and was made a D.Sc. in 1939.
Besides holding high qualifications with
the dental sections of the Royal Colleges
of Surgeons, London and Edinburgh,
and with the Royal Society of Medicine,
London, he has published a number of
scientific papers and has still found time
to devote to music—even writing the score


of a musical-comedy that was performed
in Adelaide in 1932. Succeeding Dr.
Campbell in the Chair of Dental Science,
Dr. A. M. Horsnell comes to Adelaide
from being sub-dean at the London
Hospital Medical College.
• •
Sydney architect Peter Stephenson,
who’s just been made a Fellow of the
Royal Institute of British Architects, is
a Master of Architecture of Harvard
(U.S.A.). Born in Melbourne and now
38, he flew Blenheims and Beaufighters
in the Middle East, at Malta and in
Europe during War 11, then compressed
a five - year Bachelor of Architecture
course at Sydney Uni. into two-and-a-
half years. These days he co-ordinates
production in the firm which his father.
Sir John Stephenson, founded in Mel-
bourne in 1920, and which today has
eight offices in four countries.
A job Peter Stephenson was responsible
for lately was the St. Marys (N.S.W.)
munition-filling factory, and he was also
closely associated in Sydney with the
medical centre at the Royal Prince
Alfred Hospital, the Page Chest Pavilion
and Legal and General’s Temple
House. He thinks the challenge to Aus-
tralian architects is to find ways to do
the major works demanded by the present
spectacular growth. It was in anticipation
of this challenge that he went to America
in 1951-52 to study under Walter Grotius,
whom many acclaim as the most influen-
tial architect of our times.
STANLEY AUGUSTIN McDONNELL,
president of the Queensland B.M.A. and
deputy-chairman of the Red Cross in
Brisbane. Born in Sydney and graduating
from its University, he went to War I
as M. O., 43rd Infantry Battalion. Now
retired, and living in Brisbane, he prac-
tised as a G.P. for 37 years at St. George
(Q.) and, by way of a change from
medicine, was for some time chairman
of Balonne Shire Council. In War II he
had five years with the A.I.F. in the
Middle East and New Guinea.
“Oodonit”: Lately in Brisbane on a
visit, Arthur Upheld last saw the city
when he marched through in 1914 on
his way to War I. Meantime he has, of
course, become an outstanding best-
selling author, while his bush sleuth,
Detective-Inspector Napoleon Bonaparte
(“Bony”), has publicised the name of the
Queensland police in every continent.
Upfield's books, translated into eight
foreign languages, have sold to the tune
of 2,000,000 copies. Hailing from
England, Upheld landed in Brisbane in
1912 —broke. While working on a station
near Winton he met former police-
tracker Leon Wood, who was then a
boundary-rider there, and later immor-
talised him as the now-famous detective-
inspector
• •
“Bolivar”: Alfred Hodsoll Gordon
Heath, who lately crossed over the sunset
at Pinjarra (W.A.) at 85, was in charge
of the first camel-train to attempt the
overland trek from the eastern States
to the Coolgardie goldhelds. In March.
1894, he took charge of a drove of
camels (owned by Sultan Raz Mahomed,
a big contractor) at Hergott Springs (now
Marree), undertaking to travel “thence to
Coolgardie, making all possible speed and
dispatch . . . Sultan Ras Mahomed agrees
on his part ... to pay the said Alfred
Heath the sum of £2 a week and rations.”
Heath was in charge not only of the
camels but of their six Afghan or Arab
drivers. On July 24, 1894, he delivered
to Sultan Raz Mahomed, at Coolgardie,
70 camels —12 more than he had started
with! He had brought them some 2000
miles with only one loss among those
he set out with —and he was still only
20 years old when he reached Coolgardie!
Heath was early on the Kurnalpi and
Kanowna fields ; Subsequently he helped
survey the overland-telegraph route to the
east. Later he farmed at Flinders Island,
and was the first to grow subterranean-
clover for seed there and export it to
the mainland. Returning to the West to
farm at Serpentine, he could not resist
the call back to the ’fields in the gold-
boom during the 1930'5, eventually
taking-up leases at the Nullagine, which
are still being worked by two of his sons.
• •
Charles Bannon (above) has been
holding an exhibition of his drawings and
paintings semi-abstract landscapes, he
describes them in Farmer's Blaxland
Galleries. Sydney (it closes on June 26).
Though the first time he has hung his
work in Sydney, this is his fourth one-
man exhibition —the others have been in
Adelaide and Melbourne —and some of
his pieces gained favorable comment in
“Artbursts” (B. 17/6/’59). Several have
been bought by the N.S.W. National
Gallery.
Winner of the Blake Prize in 1954,
Bannon, now 39, spent six years with
the 2nd A.I.F. (bombardier with the 2/3rd
Field Regiment in England and the
Middle East) and at the war’s end took
an art rehab.-course in Melbourne. In
1948 he joined the staff of St. Peter’s
College, Adelaide, where he is senior art-
master and also teaches botany arid
graphic arts. He believes there is a great
future for Australian art, and quotes
the enthusiasm and ability of bis pupils ;
but he insists that its expression must be
indigenous— not a copy of the European
CHARLES BAN NON
schools, but born of true Australian tech-
nique and imagination.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Brisbane, at 63, David Marwedel Archer,
of Honan Downs, Dartmouth (Q.), president
of the Queensland Merino Stud Sheepbreeders’
Association and Bulletin writer.
At Auckland, at 88, Montague Harrison
Wynyard, prominent in Harbor Board affairs
and New Zealand's motor rep. on the Highway
Board. He was a grandson of Lieut.-Colonel
R. H. Wynyard, who commanded the forces in
the Maori fighting and as Deputy Governor
introduced representative government in
1854-55.
At Hay (N.S.W.), at 94, pioneer pastoralist
Michael Joseph Rutledge. He selected land
in the Hay district in 1884, on arrival from
Ireland, and his first woolclip sold for 4-1-d. a
pound.
In Sydney, at 84, Charles Stanley Panton,
journalist and formerly Federal gen.-sec. of
the Viticullural Council. He was news-editor
of the “Australian Star’’ and “Sunday Sun”
and later chief sub-editor of Melbourne
“Herald.”
In Sydney, at 64, Victor Massey, composer,
who was formerly organist at All Saints’,
Wooliahra, and later, for 15 years, at St.
Mark's, Darling Point.
In Melbourne, George B. Woodgate, for
many years principal of Dookie Agricultural
College.
In Melbourne, at 50, Arthur Harold Drake-
ford, formerly member of the Victorian Legis-
lative Assembly for Essendon and Pascoe Vale.
In Adelaide, at 54, Leo Francis Wilson, a
director of David Jones’, Ltd., and on the
board of several other companies.
At Mistake Creek (W.A.), at 49, Wally
Dowling, bushman and poet; one of the best-
known drovers in Westralia’s north-west.
At Rotorua, at 58, William F. Young, New
Zealand's first Director of Roads. He spent
40 years in the Ministry of Works, designed
the Rimutaka tunnel and Wellington’s water-
supply, had a hand in the South Island Main
Trunk railway, and in War II organised the
building of the Mersa Matruh-Tobruk railway.


ABORIGINALITIES
MOKOLKOLS: AN EARLIER MEETING
By P. M. PENHALLURICK
T\ave Fienberg’s well-written account
of his “Meeting the Mokolkols”
caused me to turn up my old New Guinea
files for the report of my 1930 patrol to
this small but doughty tribe.
In December, 1945, I was returning
to Kenya to rejoin my Army unit after
leave in Australia, when Captain Fien-
berg, a fellow-passenger on the old
Nestor, inquired if I was the Penhallurick
who had been a cadet in New Guinea.
During the next two weeks of
reminiscing, it was inevitable that the
Mokolkols should receive quite a men-
tion. I was surprised
to learn that no con-
tact had been made
since my patrol, par-
ticularly so as these
people are scarcely
more than 100 miles
from Rabaul.
The Bulletin
story was my first
inkling of this fol-
low-up, and I read
every word with the
greatest of interest.
Tn June, 1930, after
spending the
greater part of two
years on pacification
work in the “closed”
Nakanai area, fol-
lowing the 1927
massacre of four
prospectors there, I
was looking forward
to my leave. District
Officer Taylor wrote
from Kokopo asking
if I would like to
have a shot at con-
tacting the Mokolkols. When last seen
they had been hurling spears and de-
fiance at Patrol Officer Calcutt’s party
some four years earlier.
I set off from the beach-village of
Baia with a corporal, six police-boys and
15 not very enthusiastic carriers, travelling
“light.”
I found them tucked away in a
stockaded stronghold on the tip of a
precipitous spur. After crawling across
a log and through the 15ft.-high fence
with an Arawe police-boy, we laid out
an assortment of knives, axes, lap-laps
and salt, and retreated back to the other
side of the log bridge to await the dawn.
The subsequent parley was handi-
capped somewhat by lack of a suitable
interpreter, our efforts at sign - language
being not very well received. A
splendidly built, bearded fellow, who
appeared to be the “big man,” made no
secret of his intentions, and when my
covering-party called a warning the
natives became alarmed and slipped off
down a goat-track cut into the far side
of their eyrie.
I waited four days on a neighboring
spur for them to return. I was about
to leave for the beach on the fourth day
when they came. They had climbed the
steep mountain-slope behind my camp,
and they came in running, bent over low
and swinging their long-handled axes.
My party was taken completely by sur-
prise, my sentry on the down slope having
gone off to relieve himself. The carriers
panicked, and a number of them dived
headlong over the steep cliff. Two of
“They swapped all this for a handful of gold beads."
these were killed; others were badly
injured, but later recovered. Others again,
who had fled down the slope, were
chopped by the Mokolkols as they fled
from my revolver-fire.
As an experiment, my police had been
armed with a light single-shot rifle once
used by Senior Cadets, and I was to
furnish a report on the suitability or
otherwise of these weapons. The small
black-powder cartridges were in flat boxes
of 50, and not a shot was fired from
these rifles until the attackers were well
away. The rifles were never used again.
I had to restrain my police from a
follow-up to concentrate on collecting
my carriers. Fortunately, I had a well-
stocked medical-chest, and the next few
hours were spent in stitching numerous
axe-cuts. A striking example of human
invulnerability was afforded by the case
of one young lad who had fled after
receiving a deep cut in the side. He was
carried to me with his intestines supported
in the two hands of his father. I washed
these as well as I could with a weak
solution of condes, poked them back
with my fingers and, after rolling him
gently, stitched the wound. He was
conscious the whole time, apparently felt
no pain and smiled his encouragement
whilst I worked on this and other wounds.
He recovered, and was running round his
village with scarcely discernible scars a
few weeks later! Two others, however,
died after reaching the beach.
The trip to the beach, with all hands
taking turns at carrying the injured on
improvised stretchers and across shoulders
in the “fireman’s grip,” was something
of a nightmare, and took two days and
a night.
As there had been a lot of adverse
criticism in the press and later from
the council of the League of Nations
following the punitive measures taken
after the Nakanai massacre, this attack
received only the vaguest-sort of report
in the southern papers. District Officer
Taylor, together with Patrol Officer Mack
(later killed on-a patrol in Morobe), did
take a large force into the area, but
stayed only a brief time, with negative
results.
I have always retained a soft spot for
these Mokolkols, as well as for other
primitives with whom I have come in
contact. Most patrol-officers know that
the occasional forays of these isolated
tribes against the more sophisticated
beach natives are often not without some
provocation, real or imagined. On an
earlier patrol on the eastern side of
Mount Ulamon, when an intended attack
was averted, I subsequently learned that
my beach carriers had, after some trade-
dispute, promised the natives that the
Kiap would come soon to “make them
savvy.”
A month or so after the Mokolkol
attack I overheard my police arguing
about the type of noise the attackers had
made. All gave different versions, the
only correct one coming from my cook,
an elderly Rabaul native. The killing
cry, which I have heard several times and
have no wish to hear again, was a long-
drawn-out “Ah-h-h-h!”
* * * *
“Temora”: Annual meetings of coun-
try shows being in the news means com-
mitteemen getting their 1959 jobs; so
here’s a warning to the amiable mug who
gets himself bluffed into taking charge of
a Women’s Homecraft Section. Unlike us
men, when our best sow, Rose of Tralee,
with her dozen little hips and haws,
doesn’t achieve the blue-ribbon, Mrs.
Bakebottom is liable to snort, throw out
her chest, and demand an explanation
of the failure of her six indifferent
sausage-rolls. You’ll discover, too, strict
rules of etiquette in the cookery world:
Gingerbread-cake must be square, short-
bread triangular, and marmalade must


♦
RjnO THE Poctor. —•
/Host be som&thino wrongt,
H£s QtM£T/^
%


be of the true orange variety—the usual
grapefruit confection is just not done.
A square cake served on a round plate
is as shocking as tan boots with a dress-
suit, and pattycakes must be topped with
five currants —no more or no less —per-
haps an Edwardian idea to honor Queen
Alexandra, who first wore five - button
gloves. Mind you, there are compensa-
tions lots of gentle ladies fluttering
around asking our advice and hanging
on our words —that’s easy to take for
any of us old baldheaded coots!
4* 4 s
“Casey”: Taking the back-road from
Orbost (Vic.) to Mt. Bonang, we pulled-up
at the Bonang store to give ourselves
and our over-taxed 10-h.p. job a needed
spell, to find ourselves greeted with un-
expected excitement by the two daughters
of the place. When the excitement died
down we learned they had mistaken us
for pen-friends from Perth. “They were
due about five weeks ago,” the elder
one said casually, “and we thought you
might have been them.” We then asked
whether we could be of help in fighting
the bushfire over the creek. At the time,
half the mountainside was in flames.
“Oh, that’s just the bloke over there
burning-off a bit,” was. the answer. We
took-off for Cooma less concerned about
time and with almost a contempt for
bushfires.
* * * *
“J.A.K.”: The auction-market was in
full swing when an old lady appeared
with an overnight-bag filled with lettuces.
Opening it at the counter she thrust it
aside with a shriek and pointed to several
inches of tiger-snake amongsf the lettuce.
An attendant dispatched Joe; the old
lady said she didn’t know how the snake
had got there, as she kept the bag under
her bed.
* * * *
“Deegs”: A country hostelry changed
hands and the new Bung was confronted
at 7.15 a.m. on the first Tuesday of his
occupation by a quietly-spoken well-
dressed cove off the train who asked for
the key to the room previously booked
for him. Bung had let the room for the
night to a couple of travellers (com-
mercial) and replied: “You’ll have to wait
until after breakfast. The room’s let.”
To the q.-s.-w.-d. cove’s query re the term
of Bung’s occupation of said premises
Bung snarled, “And ’oo wants to know?”
The quiet-bloke told him; he was a
Quarter Sessions judge, on circuit.
* * * *
“Tasma, jnr.”: Hobart’s Regatta
Association is asking that the silver-
wattle be adopted as* the Apple Isle’s
floral emblem, reviving an idea that goes
back 121 years. When the regatta was
founded in 1838, to commemorate the
discovery of Tasmania, Governor Sir
John Franklin declared the first public
holiday in the colony for the initial dis-
play ; and at the inaugural meeting of
the association one of the resolutions
passed was “that a national emblem be
adopted, to consist of a sprig of silver-
wattle blossom tied with navy-blue.”
Possibly some overdue finality will be
reached this time.
* * ♦ *
“North Eastener”: White kangaroos
have been spotted from time to time,
but a rarer animal is a white wallaby.
A couple of Tasmanian hunters have
captured one in the north-east. So far
as is known, it is the only one of its
kind in captivity anywhere. A fully-
grown young buck, it has the pink eyes of
the albino.
* * * •
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: Natives in a lonely
area of the Western Highlands of New
Guinea, on the Porgera River, have
developed a useful little goldmining
enterprise. Its presence was revealed
when one of them brought a parcel of
50oz. to Mt. Hagen, and a patrol under
mining-warden H. J. McKenzie went to
the scene. Two boss-boys were carrying
out systematic mining, and the field is
now being studied. Its isolation explained
the accumulation of the large parcel of
gold, compared with the average parcel
of about soz. It was quite a long trek
in to Mt. Hagen.
“Okay! Take it away—see you yesterday!"
“Mackville”: The C.5.1.R.0.’s bird-
banding experiments might be more
efficient if details of the scheme were
published so that interested laymen would
know what was expected of them. Just
what are we expected to do when we
see a banded bird? Shoot it in the
interests of science? Notify the organisa-
tion, put salt on its tail, or stalk it till
it dies of old age? I saw a banded sea-
gull alight on a seawall, but, lacking in-
formation as to the correct thing to do,
I did nothing.
* * * *
“Bellfield”: Thought I'd heard of all
the fantastic bush-remedies, but it took
a touch of toothache to dig out the zaniest
of ’em all. My mate clucked sympatheti-
cally, then asked where we could find a
horse. It didn’t seem to me the ideal
time to wax humorous, and I said so.
He, however, was quite hurt. Hadn’t I
heard of the horse-cure? You pared a
piece off that corn-like protuberance high
up on a horse’s foreleg and rubbed it
on the gum or filled the hollow in the
tooth with it. In the old days people
swore by it. It set me wondering whether
Richard 111 had a nagging tooth when
he offered his kingdom for a prad.
* * * *
“Olivia”: “Lost a beaut watch once
in the bush,” said Jim, “and it wasn’t
until a coupla years later, when I’m clear-
ing away some undergrowth, that I found
it again, and, what’s more, it was still
going! Couldn’t make it out at first an’
then I took a jerry. It’d fallen outside a
snake’s hole, and every time Joe came
out he musta passed over the winder!”
* * * *
“Margaret”: The police-patrol, having
dropped-in as usual for a cup of tea and
a yarn, asked if we’d seen anything of
a cow, branded with an F, that had
been reported missing. We hadn’t, but
passed-on the query to our staff, George.
He's a fine stockman, but when it came
to education the “compulsory” was just
a challenge. “F?” he repeated, thought-
fully. “That’ud belong to that feller,
Paddy ’Effernan, I s’pose.”
* * * •
“Flight”: As a game and audacious
midget the wagtail may worthily represent
the bird-world; his counterpart in the
reptile realm is the 3in.-long, sandy-
colored sun-lizard. That mite, reared-up
against a stone, will face anything from
a bigger lizard to a swooping kestrel, with
hopeless odds meaning nothing to it. How
the species manages to survive is a
wonder.


The giant-toads, which were introduced
into N.Q. to stonker the cane-
beetle (they did so most efficiently), and
which later earned the curses of bee-
herders, have again found useful work.
During late summer, and particularly at
the tailing-olf of the “wet,” the large
sucking-moth does great damage to paw-
paw crops, settling at night on half-ripe
fruit to pierce the skin, and, by sucking
the juice, reduce sound pawpaws quickly
to ruined pulp. Croppers now bury some
of the half-ripe fruit beneath the trees,
leaving one-third exposed. These offer-
ings make convenient snack-bars for the
toads, who regard sucking-moths as the
perfect dessert. —“Amdee.”
* * * *
“Spin”: I’ve spent hours here in W.A.
trying to catch a glimpse of a bird —a
reed-warbler, perhaps, or a wren —that
was making the bush or swamp clamorous
with its song and wasn’t keeping still
for a second. That applies even in places
like King’s Park. The little birds work
through the undergrowth, sipping nectar
from the shrub-blooms or feeding on the
insects which also seek the nectar ; and
there’s nearly always some species
present, because no matter what time of
the year you look you’ll always find some
blooms in that type of country. That
is, if you look properly. The blooms that
appear at the end of a long, dry summer
aren’t spectacular, but they’re surprisingly
pretty and delicate and often rich in
nectar, so they draw insects and birds.
But the birds are shy, as all ground-feed-
ing birds have to be, and the unwary
walker shepherds them well ahead of him.
Also, they blend with the native shrubs.
The birds you easily sight in the big
trees, notably the parrots, are spectacular,
but they haven’t the delicate tints or the
exquisite forms of the little birds you
find amongst the undergrowth. But, as
I said, you’ve got to know how to look
for them.
* * * *
“Silicus”: The aggressive, confident,
fast-talking young realty salesman was
showing a prospective buyer over an old
farm when his client pointed to a
luxuriant patch of weeds and remarked
sarcastically: “That's a decent patch of
groundsel.” “Ah, yes,” responded the
high-pressure bloke glibly, “and it con-
firms all I’ve b#en telling you about the
wonderful qualities of this soil —it will
grow absolutely anything.”
* * * *
“Fairf”: On Prospect Creek (N.S.W.),
behind what is now the grounds of Fair-
field High School, there is an old concrete
structure which legend designates the
remains of a Chinese temple, prob-
ably because Chinese market - gardens
used to flourish on each side of it.
Thirty-five years ago the municipal coun-
cil dug a canal to drain low - lying
areas. Where the canal drained into the
creek a concrete spillway was built to pre-
vent erosion. It speaks well for the
engineers of the day that countless tons
of earth was washed away down the
creek, leaving the spillway standing out
high-and-dry, like well, a Chinese
temple.
# # # m
“Northern”: At the annual training-
camp at Danbulla (N.Q.) the boys got
stuck into the area’s reptile-population.
A few taipans of various lengths were
killed, but no bites recorded. Probably
“He expects us to slave all day to keep him in idle luxury."
the most surprised man at the camp was
the canteen-manager, who had been in his
canteen (an old barn) four days before
a snake was noticed in the rafters, killed,
and identified as a taipan. Happiest was
Ram Chandra, who gave sterling service
instructing C.M.F. units in snake-lore
and treatment of snakebite. He even had
volunteers from various companies hold
out a finger to be bitten by non-poisonous
Joes to demonstrate treatment. His best
piece of advice? If bitten by a taipan,
pinch the area between finger and thumb,
cut the piece clean out, and apply two
tourniquets above the bite.
* * * *
'T'he colony of spitfire-grubs in the red-
gum contained 30 members, and they
came so close to defoliating the tree that
they were spared only in the interests of
study.
Throughout the day they stayed
clustered together in a sticky - looking
mass, apparently sleeping, but stirring
into action at any threat. Then the group
would become a conglomeration of
waving tentacles as each member raised
a head or tail or both, if necessary
spitting—ejecting a secretion that stinks
to high heaven and can irritate, especially
if it strikes the eye.
They congregate for protection, and
it’s pretty effective —there’s hardly a bird
will attack a colony. Then, at dusk, when
the danger from birds is past, they
separate, spreading over the branches and
eating leaves so fast you’d swear you
could hear the champing of their jaws.
As far as I can tell, they don’t leave a
trail an Y sort; yet at daylight they
find their way together again, and not at
the spot they occupied the previous day.
That continued throughout their grub-
life. Then one night, instead of dispers-
ing, they moved down the tree, still in
a group, so entwined that they looked
like one multi-armed animal, and next
day they rested on the tree-trunk near
ground-level. That night they moved off
the tree and were a couple of feet away
by morning, but instead of resting they
moved aimlessly around all day. Whether
they were searching for a-suitable spot,
or waiting for the rain that had been
hanging off all day, I can’t say ; but just
after dark they were huddled a foot or
so from the base of the tree, still in a
group, burrowing under leaves and debris.
Soon after that we got about a point
of rain, and an hour later they were dis-
appearing into the ground. I know what
happened then —they pupated, forming
cocoons, not of silk, but from soil mixed
with a secretion from their bodies ; and
in due season there will emerge some
winged insects like wasps, rather longer
and slimmer than bees, colored black
and orange. You’d know them as saw-
flies, named from the minute sheathed
saw with which each female is equipped in
place of a sting. With that saw she makes
a tiny incision in the leaves in which
to lay her eggs ; so another colony of
spitfires will arise in the midst of its
feeding-ground, each member equipped
with that remarkable instinct which
brings the lone night-feeders back into
the fold at daybreak before the early
bird is on the wing.
GRAVELSNATCHER.


MULLENS & CO.
A. If. Urquhart, M. D. Pasrm-ore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Mullens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone Cables & Telegrams
BWBI7I (3 lines) 8LR327 Sydney
PRING DEAN & CO.
H. H. Dean, V. J. Berner, W. L. Hunt, J. A. Hudson.
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
27 Hunter St., SYDNEY. Telephone: BW4OII (3 lines)
Telegrams Address: Pring Stock Exchange, Sydney.
Cables Address: Einwar, Sydney.
Business, Rollery, Etc
U.S. INVESTMENT IN AUSTRALIA
[From an address by William J. Sebald, U.S. Ambassador to
Australia, before Sydney Rotary on June 9J
TYurjng the past year-and-a-
half we have had an
extraordinary demonstration
of the strength of the Aus-
tralian economy in the face of
a world-wide recession and of
a continuation, for the second
consecutive year, of the? lowest
level of Australian farm-
incomes for a decade. Income
from wool exports has been
down by over 40 p.c. Yet,
in spite of this, national income
has not declined significantly.
The period has thus shown that
Australia has become less
dependent on primary industry,
and particularly on wool, for
its short-run prosperity.
1 do not mean to suggest
that the longer-term importance
of wool and other primary
products for Australia has
diminished. This is by no
means the case. But the eco-
nomy of Australia has demon-
strated that it can now with-
stand, without serious ill-effect,
a temporary reduction of in-
come from these., sources. In
the past, such setbacks would
have had serious immediate
consequences on the economy
as a whole.
A substantial degree of
credit for this remarkable
change must, it seems to me,
rest with secondary industry,
which has grown so spectacu-
larly during the past 15 years.
And in view of the role that
private investment from many
sources has played in this
growth, it would seem well
substantiated that such invest-
ment makes a great contribu-
tion toward strengthening the
economy.
We thus have before us the
happy spectacle of a success-
story.
This success-story has not
gone unnoticed abroad. During
the last half of 1958 the rate of
inflow of overseas capital was
reportedly almost twice as high
as for the same period of the
year before. I know of no
reason why, under present cir-
cumstances, this higher rate of
capital-inflow should not con-
tinue.
I believe, in fact, that Aus-
tralia has reached not a point
Qf arrival with respect to
foreign capital-inflow, but a
point of departure. Successful
investments attract the atten-
tion of other investors. The
“While you Were on holidays the output in your
department doubled. Why? ”
investors of the world, I think,
are now becoming aware of
Australia’s rich resources and
of the stability of its institu-
tions and strength of its
economy. This being so, Aus-
tralia has, through its own
efforts, reached a most enviable
position a position which
many other less-fortunate
nations would go to great
lengths to achieve. •
I' am convinced that the
level of private investment
from abroad, and particularly
from the United States, could
increase many-fold in coming
years. I am frank to say that
I hope it does. I say this be-
cause I believe this would be
in Australia’s best interest. And
I am candid to say, also, that
I believe it would be in the best
interests of not only the
United States, but of the free
world.
It is for this reason that I was
somewhat puzzled by recent
comments which suggested that
the price paid for foreign in-
vestment was too high. The
answer to this is of great im-
portance to me, because some
of these doubts seem particu-
larly to be held with respect
to United States investments.
Accordingly, it might be help-
ful to touch upon some of the
questions that have been raised
and to give you what I believe
to be our viewpoint in these
matters.
On what opinions, then, are
the doubts usually based?
In essence, the argument
seems to run somewhat as
follows: Because of the growth
of foreign investment the drain
on foreign-exchange reserves to
cover overseas payments will
soon become excessive. This
will be especially true, the
reasoning continues, with
respect to American invest-
ment, because of the excep-
tional success of American
enterprises.
On the other hand, the argu-
ment goes, because of the
practice of American enter-
prises of reinvesting un-
usually high percentages of
their earnings in Australia,
United States firms are acquir-
ing a rapidly increasing control
over important sectors of the
Australian economy.
It is not surprising that such
doubts should arise. Similar
doubts arise in one form or
another in many countries
which utilise substantial
amounts of foreign capital.
Nevertheless, it seems to me
that they are mistaken doubts
and are based on a miscon-
ception of the true role which
foreign capital plays, and the
contribution it makes toward
a growing economy.
What we are concerned with
here is a policy of government
which has as its objective the
improvement of the standard-
of-living. This is the basic
truth which we must hold
before us in our consideration
of investment. Without this
objective, investment has no
real purpose for the, country
concerned.
Some commentators
approach the problem of in-
vestment purely from the point
of view of foreign exchange.
They welcome foreign invest-
ment because it makes an
initial contribution to the
foreign-exchange position. Yet,
if the investment succeeds and
by the magic of sound capital-
investment builds more capital,
they become disturbed at the
prospect of earnings flowing
to the source of the original
capital. In due time, it is con-
cluded, the investment has con-
tributed nothing to the eco-
nomy, but has, in fact, resulted
in a net drain.
This view looks upon the
economy as though it were a
reservoir with a fixed capacity.
Should the investor take out
more than he originally brought
in, pound for pound, or dollar
for dollar, it ig*concluded that
he thereby lowers the level
of the reservoir.
. Actually, what the investor
is in effect doing is something
entirely different. In reality he
is building additional aque-
ducts to carry fresh resources
to the reservoir. If the enter-
prise is successful, the resources
become larger and greater than
before. What has taken place


J. T. HARRY & DIXON
(Eric E. Dixon, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
113 Pitt St., Telephone: BL 1987
Sydney Tel. Add.: “Harry Stock Exchange,” Sydney
Cape rcrf
QUEENSLAND
*
s
★
★*
NEW SOUTH WALES
VICTORIA
Portland
"From
Cape York
to
Portland"-
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
Established 1885.
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
The only Trustee company having offices
each with its own Board of Directors and
Management in three States —New South
Wales, Victoria and Queensland,
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
And at Newcastle, Albury, Townsville, Too-
woomba, Rockhampton and Charleville.
UT23O
is a rise in resources available,
and these resources, of course,
in their pervading way, raise
the standard-of-living of the
receiving country....
This, then, is what capital
investment does, and this is
why most Governments the
world over are anxious to
encourage the highest possible
rate of capital investment,
whether it be governmental or
private, local, or foreign. This
is also why many countries
which do not as yet have suffi-
cient capital resources of their
own are too eager to attract
foreign capital.
I do not wish to suggest that
the effect of foreign investments
on the balance-of-payments
should be ignored. But I do
suggest that the balance-of-
payments position is only one
element in this equation. Some
investments make a direct and
obvious net contribution to
overseas balances either by in-
creasing exports or by sub-
stituting for imports. But in
the case of many other invest-
ments it should be borne in
mind that earnings remitted
overseas represent only a small
fraction of the contribution the
investments have in different
Ways made to the nation’s
economy.
American investors abroad
have gained the reputation of
achieving higher-than-average
earnings in their activities.
Certainly, however, there are
American investors in Aus-
tralia who have lost their
entire investments. These
failures do not, of course,
usually make headlines. There
are also other investors who
are continuing their efforts and
adding to their initial invest-
ments although they still
operate in the red.
The search for oil is an out-
standing illustration of this.
In Australia and Papua, over-
seas companies, principally
British and American, have
thus far spent some £A4O
million in the search for oil.
They have received not a
penny in return. If they fail
to discover oil, this investment,
to the investors at least, will
be a total loss.
If Australian private investors
alone had financed this explora-
tion through loans, for example,
they would even now be paying
back every pound, together
with the usual rate of interest.
Direct investments involve
remittances only if they are
successful. And if they are
successful, they are simul-
taneously generating the
wealth which makes repayment
possible....
The experience of Canada
has often been cited as a case
in point of a country which
has become concerned at the
growth of American invest-
ment. This merits examina-
tion. Canada has a gross
national product about 2\
times that of Australia and a
population of 18 million. At
the same time, total foreign
investment of all kinds in
Canada is eight times as great
as total foreign investment in
Australia. The level of United
States direct investment in
Canada is 14 times the level of
U.S. direct investment in
Australia, and during the last
few .years new U.S. invest-
ments have been entering
Canada at a rate of 16 times
the rate at which they have
been flowing into Australia!
Admittedly, this faow of
capital has created some
problems for Canada, and,
understandably, has given rise
to some concern not unlike
that expressed in Australia.
The point I wish to emphasise,
however, is that notwithstand-
ing this tremendous investment
influx, and in spite of some
doubts concerning its wisdom,
our Canadian friends apparent-
ly believe that in the long-run
this investment is in Canada’s
interest.
Company Directors
A ustralian Institute of
Company Directors was
formed last year in Sydney to
promote higher standards of
ethics, efficiency and relation-
ships among Australian com-
pany-directors, and to assist
the development of the free-
enterprise system, particularly
in the field of secondary
industry.
Another object is to ensure
that shareholders in companies
obtain the fullest information
consistent with the mainten-
ance of the secrecy of such
matters as are necessary to be
kept secret in the best interests
of the companies. Also to
establish and maintain a
bureau to collect and dissemi-
nate information useful to
investors in Australian com-
panies, and to assist members
by the provision of informa-
tion.
Founder of the institute is
John Ramsay Partridge, A.C.A.
(Aust.), and N.S.W. registrar
is Sir William Durrant.
The value of the institute
will depend a great deal on the
growth of membership and
enthusiasm of members. From
its June issue, “Business
Review” will be the official
organ of the institute, under the
general editorship of S. R.
Brown, LL.B., F.C.A. (Aust.).
Institute of Management
believes that with changes in
company legislation imminent
there will be a greater interest
in the responsibilities of direc-
tors, and consequently a grow-
ing interest in the institute.
Two Drilling Wells
[From Li. Owen]
TThroughout the Australian
mainland and Territories,
the total number of major wells
currently being sunk in the


REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
V/
r~»
Q
O
C,
Up lo TANARUS/« P.O, (or
Long Term
.for
Short Term
I.A.C. guarantees fixed quarterly
income, free of exchange.
For full details see Prospectus;
your copy available from all
Members of Stock Exchanges,
the 703 branches of the A.N.Z.
Bank Limited & f.A.C. Branches.
ASSETS EXCEED £60,000,01)3
PAID UP CAPITAL £10,000,000
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE
ADELAIDE • PERTH • HOBART
CANBERRA
and at PROVINCIAL BRANCHES
(Established 29 Years)
Underwriting Brokers:
lan Potter & Co.
Melbourne, Canberra
and Sydney
DII6N
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription 22/6
search for oil amounts to two
only, in spite of subsidies and
other inducements offered by
the Government.
It may be some consolation,
however, that, each in its own
way, the two bores are of
enormous interest not merely
to oilmen but to every citizen,
who nourishes the hope that
their drilling will lead to
the striking of sizeable reser-
voirs of oil.
The second deviation from
the original Puri (Papua) No.
1 hole —according to the latest
press release issued by Aus-
tralasian Petroleum “has
been made at 3871 ft. and the
new hole has since been
deepened 2214 ft. to 6085 ft.
(vertical depth 5975 ft.).”
It will be recalled that the
original Puri No. 1 well struck
a sequence, downward?, of wet
gas and condensate and (after
acidising) of light crude oil and
finally brine from a limestone-
zone at between 7460 ft. and
7508 ft. The first deviation
was made at 6090 ft. and
encountered the limestone
sequence at a well-depth of
7489 ft. There it struck a small
flow of gas, oil and water which
persisted down to 7528 ft.
Below that depth, the zone
proved to be water-bearing.
Assuming that the top of the
limestone-sequence is approxi-
mately horizontal, and that
there has been no appreciable
“corkscrewing” in the bore
itself, the published figures
indicate that the first deviation
was inclined to the vertical at
an angle of around lldeg.
45min., with a horizontal drift
at the top of the limestone-zone
of 285 ft. from the original hole.
The second deviation amounted
to 18deg. lOmin., with a hori-
zontal drift (at 6085 ft.) of
about 690 ft.
Any substantial dip in the
limestone-surface would neces-
sitate, of course, some correc-
tion to the figures calculated
on the assumptions mentioned,
as far as the first deviated hole
is concerned, but their general
order and significance would
not be seriously affected in
either deviation.
It will thus be realised that
a quite considerable area of the
limestone-sequence is being
tested from the one surface
location at Puri.
The other well currently
drilling is Innamincka No. 1,
located in the n.-e. corner of
South Australia. This well
reached 7140 ft. on June 5.
This depth is within a zone
which—from many points of
view is of considerable
interest to oil-seekers on the
mainland. No data with
reference to it has been
released—apart from the bare
depth of 'the hole which, in
itself, has little informative
value—although the well is sub-
sidised by the Government
Frome Rocks Salt Dome
[From H. G. Itaggratt, secretary,
Department of National Develop-
ment, Canberra.]
T was interested to read
Launcelot Owen’s, com-
ments in B. 10 /6 / ’59 on the
discovery by Bureau of
Mineral Resources geologists
of a probable salt-plug at
Woolnough Hills (W.A.).*
Mr. Owen suggests that the
structure at Woolnough Hills
is worthy of detailed testing
and expresses surprise that this
has not been done already. By
implication his suggestion is that
it is surprising that the Bureau
of Mineral Resources itself
has not tested the structure.
It may be as well, therefore,
to make it generally known
that it is not Government
policy for the Bureau of
Mineral Resources to engage
in drilling to test structures
for petroleum. This is regarded
as the job of private enterprise,
which no doubt will follow-up
the B.M.R. discovery.
Mr. Owen suggests that
B.M.R. has not drilled the
Woolnough Hills structure be-
cause of past experience ‘,‘of
its predecessors” in drilling in
igneous rocks at Miauri Marsh,
Papua, on a structure which
looked like a dome on air-
photographs.
The selection of the Miauri
Marsh site was made by Dr.
Woolnough himself on the
basis of a report by me after
field examination. It would
take up too much space to give
the reasoning that led Dr.
Woolnough to make his de-
cision—but time may yet
justify it.
I most wholeheartedly agree
with Mr. Owen that it would
be a fitting memorial to a great
man if oil were to be discovered
at Woolnough Hills.


dfg
QUEEN
LAND
CO
where a wealth
of natural resources
ensures continued
development
This is a task which has a significance extending far beyond
the borders of the State itself! Because of the great and
evergrowing contribution which Queensland makes to the
security and economic strength of the nation, this is a
project which affects all Australia. That is why you are
offered the opportunity of making a sound and profitable
investment in' this Queensland State Electricity Loan. The
money which Australians are subscribing to this Loan will
provide the power on which almost every major develop-
mental enterprise depends for continued rapid expansion.
Join with those responsible Australians who recognise this
vital need —become an investor now!
* mm m. m g' ol *m ml *m* m*
1 Vvß - Si I A. I K
ELECTRICITY
COMMISSION | A »||
OF QUEENSLAND LUA If
£5.7.6% INTEREST (GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED)
5,10, or 20 year terms
APPLY NOW THROUGH— Any of the following
banks: Commonwealth Trading Bank A.N.Z.
Bank Commercial Banking Company Com-
mercial Bank of Australia —E.S.&A. Bank —
Bank of N.S.W. —National Bank of A’asia.;
any Stockbroker, or direct to the State Elec-
tricity Commission of Q’ld., 447 Gregory
Terrace, Brisbane. Phone 5 2701. >v
Underwritten by Charles A Qrd & Minncft


SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Danny Kaye
If I may mention it, I have
been going to a gymnasium
lately and the torturers there
have so expanded the muscles
of my mighty chest that I can
no longer button my dinner-
jacket and its waistcoat. So it
was as a proud man —bursting
with pride, in fact that I
went along to Danny Kaye’s
first night at Sydney Empire.
But the trouble with being
a critic at a 'first night is that,
bursting with splendor or not,
you are expected to describe
the show ; and how to describe
the indescribable, which is
Danny Kaye, I know not.
Outside the theatre after the
show—we shall get back to it,
I hope—there was a colossal
man who I thought was going
to be very helpful. “You’ve
got to take it this way,” he
was saying. “This man [mean-
ing Danny Kaye] stands up
and talks for an hour-and-a-
half, and Bob Menzies stands
up and talks for three hours
and he doesn’t get the
same”
But just at that moment the
enormous milling throng milled
me away and ground me under
its mill-wheels, and what it is
that Menzies doesn’t get the
same of I shall never know.
The same money? That is
likely enough. The same
number of laughs? Surely he
would hardly expect to. The
same audience? The same
amount of kindly publicity in
the “Herald”? Heaven knows.
But Danny Kaye. - Well, he
just stands there, for an hour-
and-a-half. And Menzies
doesn't get the same. And so,
if I make myself clear, there
is something about him which
I can only describe in French.
It is a Je ne sais quoi.
But this is not exactly
graphic.
As a matter of fact some-
times he just sits there. And
smokes a cigarette. For half-
an-hour. And Menzies-
At any rate there is the first
half of the programme, and
that is easy to describe. Here
are these forlorn entertainers—
I. Francis Brunn, the Dunhills,
Senor Wences—who have to
come on first when everybody
is waiting to see Danny Kaye ;
and Francis Brunn beg
pardon —I. Francis Brunn,
clothed in black samite or
some-such, mystic, wonderful,
whirls beach-balls like sputniks
so brilliantly around him ; and
the Dunhills, though usually
I don’t go much for tap-
dancers, are so dexterous and
relaxed in the fouette, the pas
de deux and the elevator, if
those are the correct terms for
tap-dancing ; and Senor
Wences is so absolutely wonder-
ful with the manikin made
out of his fist, the hen-bird
that says the egg is her son,
and the disembodied head that
roars out of the box, all of
whom simultaneously keep
talking to him: that altogether,
while it lasts, you forget you
are waiting to see Danny Kaye.
Which I perceive we still are.
What does he look like? He
looks like Danny Kaye. What
does he do? Well, he just
stands there, or sits there, for
an hour - and - a - half (and
Menzies . . .); and plays with
the audience as smoothly and
easily as the inimitable I.
Francis Brunn balances- a
beach-ball on the end of his
nose. And personally, except
for the difficulty of buttoning
myself up again to go out, I
have never spent a more enjoy-
able evening.
S.
❖ ❖ ♦>
Vienna Boys’ Choir
After hearing the Vienna
Boys’ Choir at Sydney Town
Hall last Saturday this writer
found himself faced with a
pretty problem: how, in the
interests of measured criticism,
to avoid going overboard with
praise. The 22 boys led,
coaxed and inspired by their
forceful young conductor
Xaver Meyer —are concert-
performers in the truest sense
of the term.
Unlike the best English boy-
sopranos—precise and chiselled
in effect—these Viennese kids
have a delicious vocal warmth.
Maybe their English cousins
would make a very nice job
of Scarlatti’s “Exultate Deo” ;
but one has never heard such
confidence in dealing „with a
four-part, unaccompanied piece
of florid counterpoint.
It was the same with the
Victoria piece, “Tenebrae Factse
Sunt”: again the richness and
superb control, but applied
meditatively, the tapered
cadence at the end floating
gently away in a breathed con-
cord. And they revelled in
Stephani’s “The Cuckoo on the
Fence Sat” virtuoso stuff,
done magnificently, with one
of the boys giving a vibrantly
Viennese interpretation of the
cuckoo.
There were two solo songs,
one Haydn, one Schubert, sung
by two different lads: the first
boy nearly filled the Town Hall
with near-alto lyricism. The
voice of the second sparkled
and shone like light through
crystal. Then someone came
out on the stage and said that
the piano, which had been
moved during the afternoon,
had been knocked and was a
little out of tune ; this didn't
stop Meyer accompanying the
kids as, with gay costumes and
make-up, they danced and
sang their way through “The
Village Barber,” a comic-opera
by Schenk.
After the interval they were
on home-ground: Austrian
folksongs, light and bright;
the Schubert “La Pastorella”
(charming); and the “Blue
Danube” waltz, in which, as
conductor Meyer alternately
played the piano and directed
with his left-hand, one detected
a bad note somewhere around
top C —and so did Meyer, who
grimaced.
Among the encores they
did “Waltzing Matilda” in an
eager Viennese half-English
which, long before the swaggie
jumped into the billabong, had
everybody chuckling. The
audience might have kept them
there in their neat sailor-suits
all night had not Meyer, with
an authoritative downbeat,
brought them surging in on
“Now is the Hour.”
A. W.
+!♦
Joseph Post
Taking-over the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra on Satur-
day afternoon at less than an
hour’s notce after the walk-
out of visiting Rumanian con-
ductor Constantin Silvestri, the
A.B.C.’s Assistant-Director of
Music proved yet again that
his gifts are higher than is
generally conceded.
Post had a colossus on his
hands Brahms’s First Sym-
phony—and he set about
shaping that great cosmic
drama with fine confidence and
zest; a task in which he got
full co-operation from an
orchestra that knows and likes
his methods and respects his
judgment. There was a
splendid headlong drive in the
opening section, its varying
stresses and strains well limned;
the slow movement was
charged with deep emotion and
developed to a lovely stream of
lyricism to which Robert
Miller’s violin obbligato lent a
most appealing voice. Balance
fell away slightly in the brief
third movement.
The successful performance
of this work stands or falls
largely by the magnificent
finale, and here Post really


IfPiri 1
-XwSS.
M*
'***»
m
mm
% vs
mz
wrn^mmmmmmwM
rTSs&s-j
ssssss
mm
6P£AT£Sr WM£ M
Only £llofor this new 16g
10,000 gal. LYSAGHT
Flat Plate WATER TANK
STRONG ! LONG-LASTING !
This new Lysaght 10,000 gallon Flat
Plate Water Tank is manufactured
from heavy gauge galvanized steel
plate to give many years of satisfactory
service. Assembly is greatly sim-
plified, too, thanks to accurate pre-
drilling and fully bolted construction.
Every feature you are looking for is
included in this tank which is supplied
complete in every way, ready for
immediate erection.
STANDARD FITTINGS include internal wind
bracing ... 3" sludge outlet, complete
with 9' length of pipe and plug . . .
overflow unit ... 3" outlet fitting .. .
sealing compounds ... all bolts, nuts,
washers, etc.
OPTIONAL EXTRA 22 gauge steel floor.
PRICES F.O.R. NEWCASTLE
10,000 Gallon Water Tank £llO
Optional Extra —22 Gauge Steel Floor £54
oßa
Another guaranteed
Prefabricated rural product
Write for further information to:
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Offices in Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Fremantle.
T6OA
showed his worth. The brood-
ing beginning ; the great bursts
from the tutti orchestra; the
majestic sweep in the string
exordium ; the chorale in the
brass (beautifully disciplined);
and the blazing climax all
these were masterfully con-
trolled.
Bartok's “Divertimento For
Strings,” was replaced by
Schubert’s “Unfinished,” in
which Post successfully evoked
the gentle but never mawkish
sadness which somehow hangs
over both the minors of the
first movement and the majors
of the second ; and he painted
the harmonic hues with suitable
delicacy.
Debussy’s “Afternoon of a
Faun” was notable for the
excellent work of the wood-
winds in suggesting the im-
palpable. Mallarme’s symbolic
poem may be, as someone has
said, “a famous miracle of un-
intelligibility,” but the music
it inspired certainly isn’t. It is
a miracle of shifting sonorities,
melting tone-color and lovely
melody. Post tended subtly to
understate it.
Least sat : sfactory was
Weber’s “Der Freischutz”
Overture. Its essence is a clash-
ing conflict between goodies
and baddies, an evocation
which somehow just failed to
materialise; it was, however,
driven along with exuberance.
& **♦
A World Premiere
The most effective scene in
Stefan Gryff’s “Sinners With-
out Guilt” —the world premiere
of which opened the Inter-
national Drama Festival at
Sydney University’s Wallace
Theatre last Friday night—is
the one in which the group of
young Polish Resistance fighters
realise that if they are going
to be real saboteurs and not
just boys playing at war they
will have to shoot a former
playmate who has tried to
betray them to the Germans.
This terrible discovery of
what war really means could
be shaped into a strong little
one-acter that would say
almost as much as the whole
play does.
The rest is a spirited mix-
ture of contrivance, redundant
sound-effects and crashing
overstatement —all with its
heart appealingly in the right
place, but irresistibly recalling
the crude anti-Nazi films of the
early ’forties.
Much of this is no doubt
due to the author’s neces-
sarily uncertain feeling for
English—a 23-year-old Polish-
born law-student, he knew no
English when he came to Aus-
tralia a little more than two
years ago. In the leading role,
however, he worked on much
higher levels than the rest of
the obviously inexperienced
cast.
Artbursts
Howard Ashton
Howard Ashton has never
been a painter to take lightly,
and is not so now in his exhi-
bition of 80 pictures at
Anthony Hordern’s, Sydney.
The jnost important thing
j s that, if you look care-
fully around amongst the
mass of his work, every now
and again you come across a


Invest in
The longest established hire-purchase company
in Australia,
k
in which the Batik of New South Wales
has a 40% shareholding.
DEBENTURE
STOCK
6 to 10 years
7%
4 years 6V2% 3 years 6% 2 years 5V2%
Short Term Stock also availabla from
3 months at 3Vi%
Assets exceed £55,
Application Forms and Prospectus
• Any A.G.C. Branch 9 Your Stockbroker
• Bank of New South Wales at any Branch
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
142 Phillip Street, Sydney • BW 2673
Sydney • Melbourne • Brisbane • Adelaide e Perth
Hobart
Underwriting brokers: lAN POTTER & CO.
S 2
really excellent painting. The
reward of dogged craftsman-
ship is that when a genuinely
poetic mood takes hold of the
painter, when he has something
subtle to express, he has the
equipment to convey it.
So that, in the present exhi-
bition, if the big canvas of the
Blue Mountains landscape
“Narrow Neck,” though a most
painterly attempt at the un-
paintable, is essentially an
example of his doggedness,
the smaller study for it, fresh
and full of light, is so rich with
feeling that it almost persuades
one that the unpaintable can be
painted. And where the sub-
ject is not so difficult, as in
“Winter Sunlight,” “Morning
on the Dunes” and “Such
Quantities of Sand,” reality is
transformed in genuine poetry.
These are small paintings:
and though Howard Ashton
probably reaches his peak in
them, at least in sensitivity, it
would be wrong to leave the
impression that his reputation
rests on the “little gem.” There
is a kind of middle range of his
paintings, sometimes marred by
lack of light in the foreground,
sometimes fully alive, where
his strength and sensitivity
often come together in a
durable and harmonious
alliance; and this is about
where he stands in “Bush
Path,” “The Ringbarked
Ridge,” “Turimetta Head,”
“The Rainbow,” “Low Tide”
and “The Bluff, Long Reef.”
Films
“The Journey”
, Anatol Litvak’s production
of this drama of the 1956
Hungarian uprising evokes a
very convincing scene and
atmosphere, and his direction
accents with pungency and
power the conflict of wills
between a Soviet commander
and an Englishwoman in a
party of foreigners held-up at
the Austrian border.
The woman, refusing to be
panicked into betraying her
wounded Hungarian lover or
blackmailed into yielding to
the Russian, is played with
poise and assurance by
Deborah Kerr. Yul Brynner’s
Russian major is a mixture of
sternness and banter, a lonely
man with a keen sense of
humor and irony who is
finally forced to help some of
the hated capitalists—and a
counter - revolutionary to
escape, and falls ironically to
the bullets of the revolution-
aries whose hatred he has
earned.
At Sydney St. James.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Gunman’s Walk”
An adult western with sur-
prisingly good character-
studies. A formerly vicious but
now respected cattle-rancher
takes an inordinate pride in his
son, who wants to be even
tougher than his old man and
a better gun-slinger (although
that occupation is by then con-
sidered passe)- Not until the
pugnacious son commits a
couple of cold-blooded murders
does the father begin to see the
result of his own influence, and
finally, to avoid further blood-
shed, he is forced to kill the
boy in a gun-duel.
Van Heflin and Tab Hunter,
as gun-toting father and son,
lend credibility to the proceed-
ings.
At Sydney State.
Shakspeare on TV
Last Wednesday night the
A.B.C. in Sydney and Mel-
bourne gave Australia its first
taste of Shakspeare on “live”
television.
The small screen, and the
knowledge that the audience
will be watching from the
intimate surroundings of
lounge-rooms among the
family photos, the indoor
plants and the heaters (some
viewers, perhaps, like this
writer, in their pyjamas)— must
make the presentation of
Shakspeare’s huge tragic in-
sights very difficult for the
TV-director.
Unless the cameras can be
placed and co-ordinated so as
to convey something of Shak-
speare’s breadth and sweep,
much of the impact is lost.
The great men and women
get trapped as in a glass
tank; their great passions' are
squeezed down into domesti-
city ; the bigness of their speech
is too often contradicted by
their necessary closeness to
each other; or their voices
are turned down to drawing-
room intimacy—in short, the
nobility goes completely out
of them.
That, more or less, is what
happened in Royston Morley’s
production of “Hamlet” for
ABN-2 (Sydney). Denmark’s
royal court became the Hamlet
family; their tragedy shrank
to middle-class size; Hamlet
was a G.P.S. boy angry and
hurt by what had been going
on at home during term;
Polonius was the family
solicitor and his daughter the
girl next-door.
Still, within these severe
limits, the production was
sound enough—even, in places,
admirable. Pacing and scene-
changing were neat (though
too much of Hamlet’s un-
certainty got into the lighting);
and Douglas Smith’s costumes
—which attacked the black-
and-white barrier by replacing
richness of color with richness
of texture —and set-designs
were fitting ; and now and then
the cameras did look deeply
and closely at the mounting
evidence of tragedy.
Most of the players were
careful with the poetry and
drew their characters cautiously
along the lines of the school-
text notes, leaving you with a
version that wouid probably be
helpful to students, would
not put people off Shakspeare
and might even make a few
converts.
William Job’s Hamlet, Henry
Gilbert’s Claudius and Owen
Weingott’s Laertes came
nearest to struggling out of the
domestic net and into the sea
of troubles. Geoffrey King, as
Polonius, and Georgie Sterling,
as the Queen, seemed well con-
tent to swim tamely about in-
side.
Delia Williams seldom over-
came the handicap of looking
more like a jolly nice girl than
the delicate and gentle Ophelia.
A telerecording of the Mel-
bourne production, “Antony
and Cleopatra,” will be shown
on ABN-2 in Sydney on
Wednesday, July 8; and a
telerecording of “Hamlet” will
be shown on ABV-2 in Mel-
bourne on Wednesday, July 22.


Telegraphic and Cable address: “Brovrnhllls.”
Telephone: BIV 1165 (3 lines).
A. H. BROWNHILL & CO.
(A. H. Brownhill, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
27 O’Connell Street ---------
Sydney
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 ritt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771 — 8 W 8088
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Edwards Dunlop and Co., Ltd.
A continued improvement last term in
the sales-figures of Edwards Dunlop's
various branches and subsidiaries fattened
gross-earnings, outstripped an increase in
expenses and pushed total sales to a near-
record level. It might reasonably be
assumed that it also strengthened taxable
profit to a somewhat greater extent than
that indicated by the small increase in
declared net earnings, but, as published
from year to year, the profits of this
successful paper-merchant and importer
rarely stretch much beyond div.-require-
ments and last term’s showing was no
exception.
In the circumstances, the sharemarket
tends to evaluate Edwards Dunlop scrip
on the basis of the co.’s solid reserves,
both visible and assumed, its prominent
position in the paper-trade and its long
record as reliable div.-payer. On all these
counts the £1 ords. show-up as a sound
holding.
Established in 1869, the Edwards Dun-
lop organisation handles printing- and
wrapping - papers, stationery, printing-
machinery and printers’ requisites. Head-
quarters are in Sydney and there are
branches in all mainland capitals and
Newcastle (N.S.W.), freehold properties
being owned in these centres. A U.K.
subsidiary acts for the group in that
quarter of the globe while a second off-
shoot, Galwey and Co. Pty., is in business
as a manufacturing-stationer.
Divs. have gone out in an unbroken
sequence ever since the share-register
was opened to the public in 1915, the
return of share-capital rendered surplus
to immediate needs by the depression of
the early ’3o’s lightening the div.-burden
during that difficult period. Shareholders
helped to finance post-war expansion by
putting-up £345,424 of fresh capital and
£319,145 of premiums between 1947 and
1955, the capitalisation of £423,834 of
reserves during 1955, in a three-for-five
bonus-issue, lifting the all-ord. paid
capital to the present total of £1,154,223.
The div.-rate, which hasn’t fallen below
10 p.c. since 1938, was dropped from
15 p.c. to 10 p.c. after the bonus-issue.
The increasing volume and variety of
papers turned-out by Australian mills in
recent years have greatly reduced the
co.’s dependence on overseas supplies—
although substantial imports are still
necessary to cover all local requirements
—and a strong demand for Australian-
made papers was encountered over the
year to April 30 last. Sales of printing-
and wrapping - papers, machinery and
stationery all exceeded those of the
previous year and, with all branches
sharing in the improvement, total sales
were surpassed only by those arising from
the extremely high paper-prices of the
1951-52 term.
Gross-profit margins are reported to
have been maintained and while “some”
expenses were higher, “the increase was
not proportionate to the sales increase.”
However, part of this gain appears to
have been side-tracked before it worked
through to the net showing; claimed
net profit inching forward by only £2134,
after providing undisclosed amounts for
taxation and planned sales - promotion
expenses,. together with a little-changed
£28,632 for depreciation:
To Re- Re-
Apr., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
From inner reserves, etc, £28,977 . . 1,046,149
Share premiums, £60,1i5 .. .. 1,10G,264
1954.. 114,173 15 p.c. = 90,174 23,999 1,130,263
1955.. 120,162 15 „ „ 108,208 11,954 1,142,217
Assets revalued, £163,200 . . . . 1,305,417
Reserves capitalised, £432,834 .. 872,583
1956.. 117,397 10 p.c. = 113,019 3,778 876,361
Assets revalued, £lOO,OOO . . . . 976,361
1957.. 117,615 10 p.c. = 115,423 2,192 978,553
Provision long-service leave, £30,000 948,553
Profit sale freeholds, etc. £12.978 . . 961,531
1958.. 119,114 10 p.c. = 115,422 3,692 965,223
1959.. 121,248 10 „ ~115,422 5,826 971,049
Equal to 10.5 p.c. on share-capital,
compared with 10.3 p.c. in 1958 and
10.2 p.c. in 1957, the £121,248 profit
includes the earnings of subsidiaries only
to the extent of divs. actually received
during the year by the parent co.
The board expects that sales will con-
tinue to benefit from an expanding Aus-
tralian economy, but sees small chance of
any “dramatic short-term growth in the
wholesale merchanting of paper and
stationery,” particularly while trade in
some lines is limited by import-
restrictions.
Partly for this reason, the co.’s
machinery-agencies are being extended to
cover equipment outside the printing
field, new lines, manufactured by Buhler
Bros., of Switzerland, including mechani-
cal and pneumatic conveyors along with
machinery used in the production of
paste-goods, die-castings, paint and ink.
Imports of machinery are, on the whole,
subject to less-rigid control than they
were a couple of years ago.
An increasing proportion of machinery-
sales is being effected through hire-
purchase transactions, which are, no
doubt, making their contribution to earn-
ings, and to assist in financing these
operations shareholders were invited in
1957 to deposit funds with the co. “at
call.” A continuation over the next few
months of h.-p. business on the present
scale will “probably” necessitate the pro-
vision of additional funds, which, in this
event, the co. plans to raise by means
of a debenture-issue. Shareholders will
be given an opportunity of participating
in any issue, but no indication has yet
been given of the terms on which the
debenture-money would be sought.
Book-debts, including £590,222 (up
£130,869) of bills-receivable, jumped by
£337,988 last term and at £1,874,122
figure as the largest single item in the
balance-sheet. To help carry the bigger
load, and an extra £71,893 in stocks, the
co. added £344,327 to the amount against
creditors, provisions, etc., accepted a
further £54,902 on deposit and almost
doubled the overdraft (up £76,241). With
a £25,961 reduction in the mortgage-loan
(on a large Melbourne property pur-
chased in the previous term), variations
in the subsidiary-debt and a £33,202 in-
crease in cash holdings, these movements
left the current assets-current liabilities
ratio at a solid 2.2:1:
1957. 1958. 1959.
Paid Capital .. £1,154,223 £1,154,223 £1,154,225
Reserves .. .. 978,553 965,223 971,049
Notes . . . . 305,609 305,609 305,609
Mortgage .. . . 103,847 77,886
Overdraft .. .. 78,986 155,227
Creditors, etc.* .. 416,849 434,794 779,121
Deposits . . . . 118,165 173,067
Due to subsids. . . 71,587 60,391 37,949
Tax provision . . 172,660 134,519 144,605
Final div. .. 28,856 _ 28,855 28,855
£3,128,337 £3,384,612 £3,827,591
Land, buildings . . 458,260 616,028 607,504
Plant, vehicles . . 100,000 138,073 146,493
Stocks .. .. 1,012,737 907,311 979,204
Shares subsids. . . 84,346 144,571 144,571
Debtors . . . . 1,403,461 1,536,134 1,874,122
Cash, bonds . . 69,533 42,495 75,697
£3,128,337 £3,384,612 £3,827,591
* Including provisions, etc.
Freeholds are shown at “less than
independent 1955 valuation,” with sub-
sequent additions at cost.
Australian consumption of paper has
continued to grow during the first half
of 1959 and the expected maintenance of
this trend should strengthen the co.’s
long-term prospects, in addition to pro-
viding scope for further progress in the
current term. On present-day market-
values the £1 ords. don’t appear over-
priced at 395. 6d., the scrip returning
£5 Is. 3d. p.c. from a 10 p.c. div. at this
price. Acknowledged reserves (parent’s
accounts only) reflect a visible net
tangible cover of 365. lOd.
Kelvinator Australia, Ltd.
Production of domestic refrigerators
rose by approximately 14.5 p.c., to
215,000 units, over the year to March
31 last—the period covered by the latest
accounts from Kelvinator Australia, Ltd.
—but, while the sales-tempo was definitely
brisker during part of that year, output
tended, on the whole, to outrun demand.
With a refrigerator in three out of
every four homes, refrigerator-manufac-


Telegraphic ie Cable Address ‘'Rosdale” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
It. H. ALLEN M, R. L. DOWLING
I*. R. LEVY K, p. REYNOLDS
Members of 7 he Sydney Stock Exchange.
Ifi O’Connell St., Sydney. Crown Si.. Wollongong.
Tel. BLsyil. Td. B 5900.
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. E. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, R. A. McINNES, N. W. C. DRAPER
{Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Eife Building l ,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO’*
Phone: 31 2761 (4 Dines) P.O. Box No, 1887 W
turers are now concerned, mainly, with
meeting the replacement-requirements of
a well-supplied and fiercely-competitive
market, and, unless there is an unex-
pectedly-sharp increase in the rate of
homebuilding, sales of domestic re-
frigerators seem unlikely to average much
more than 200,000 units p.a. over the
next couple of years.
Production on this scale is well below
the installed plant-capacity of the industry
and the passing of the TV-boom in
Sydney and Melbourne can hardly be
counted-on to produce any marked easing
in the strongly-competitive nature of the
market.
A leading ’frig. - manufacturer, Kel-
vinator has given a good account of itself
under the difficult trading conditions
experienced over the past three years and,
with the aid of efficient production-
methods, alert management and well-
regarded products, held last term’s earn-
ings at the satisfactory level reached in
the two preceding years.
With only limited scope available for
the expansion of refrigerator-sales, the
co. re-entered the slightly stronger
washing-machine market during the term,
the new range of products being designed
to cater for the growing consumer-
interest in machines of the fully-automatic
type.
The 26-year-old South Australian con-
cern also turns-out. electric petrol-
bowsers, domestic freezers, room air-
conditioning units and other domestic
and electrical appliances, as well as
marketing radio- and TV-receivers under
the well-known Kelvinator brand.
Post-war demands brought about a
rapid expansion of the co.’s manufac-
turing-facilities and although substantial
profit-retentions helped to finance this
growth, shareholders found £1,042,500 of
fresh capital and £146,250 in share-
premiums over the 12 years to 1956.
The most recent issue, one-for-two at
par, in 1955, took ord. capital to
£1,012,500, a further £20,000 in 6-7|
p.c. participating prefs., the same amount
in 6 p.c. prefs. and £190,000 in 5 p.c.
prefs. giving the co. a total paid capital
of £1,242,500.
Introduction of a new model petrol-
bowser and the proliferation of one-brand
service-stations played a part, presum-
ably, in the “substantial increase in sales”
achieved last term by the wholly-owned
Wayne Pumps Australia, Ltd., but.
while the board doesn’t refer, specifically,
to the level of refrigerator-sales, the
accounts offer little evidence of any
significant advance in this direction.
However, room air-conditioners are
gaining rapidly in popularity and sales
of these products, and of domestic
freezers, are understood to be making an
increasing contribution to group turnover.
Practically unchanged, at £238,125 (up
£493), net profit for the year was calcu-
lated after providing £160,000 for taxa-
tion and £182,664 for depreciation, the
non-disclosure of tax- and depreciation-
provisions in the previous term hindering
an accurate comparison of trading-results
for the two years:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
( Dividends —*
f Prefs. \ Re-
Mar., Profit. Ist 2nd 3rd Ord. Total, serves.
£ p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. £ £
Tax overprovided, £33,353 . . . . 766,739
1954.. 235.039 7i 6 5 15 113,450 888,328
Tax underprovided, £3372 .. .. 884,956
1955.. 097 7 i 6 5 15 113,450 1,009,603
Tax underprovided, £29,041 .. .. 980,562
1956- 74 6 5 15 138,762 1,134,937
Profit sale land, £13,621 .. .. 1,148,558
Tax underprovided, £3256 .. .. 1,145,302
1957- 7i 6 5 15 164,075 1,222,462
Tax overprovided, £11,338 .. .. 1,233,800
Added revaluation reserve, £31,356.. 1,265,156
1958- 7$ 6 5 15 164,075 1,338,713
Tax overprovided, £1666 .. .. 1,340,379
1959- 7J 6 5 15 164,075 1,414,429
Pref. shareholders collected their usual
£12,200, the balance of the earnings
representing a little-changed 22.3 p.c. on
ord. capital, to cover a steady 15 p.c.
payout with £74,050 to spare. The 5 p.c.
“bonus-div.” has been added to the basic
10 p.c. rate in nine of the past 10 years.
Cut severely in the 1958 term, stocks
leapt by a startling—but not necessarily
alarming—£73l,3lo last year, cash hold-
ings being drawn-on to the tune of
£765,318 to provide funds for the in-
crease and a £221,892 jump in book-
debts. The liability to creditors (includ-
ing tax-provision, etc.) also rose (by
£161,755) but, after a period of heavy
capital-expenditure, the term’s net addi-
tion to fixed assets (£36,087) was well
covered by retained earnings, working-
capital growing by £26,129 to a com-
fortable, if somewhat less - liquid,
£1,270,574:
Paid capital- 1957. 1958. 1959.
Pref £230,000 £230,000 £230,000
Ord.' .. .. 1,012,500 1,012,500 1,012,500
Reserves .. .. 1,222,462 1,338,713 1,414,429
Mortgage . . .. 442,500 429,000 415,500
Creditors, etc.* . . 1,082,905 959,827 1,121,582
Final div. . . 107,350 107,350 107,350
£4,097,717 £4,077,390 £4,301,361
Freeholds .. .. 579,313 637,265 587,339
Plant .. .. 713,385 1,128,503 1,214,516
Stocks .. .. 1,729,497 1,122,741 1,854,051
Debtors . . .. 260,894 399,899 621,791
Cash, etc. .. 814,628 788,982 23,664
£4,097,717 £4,077,390 £4,301,361
* Includes provisions for tax and warranty.
The substantial reserves have contri-
buted to the healthy earning-rate and at
March 31 last totalled £1,414,429, or
£171,929 more than share-capital.
On present indications, the current
term will provide few opportunities for
any big improvement in Kelvinator’s
earnings, although the co. has already
shown itself able to win attractive profits
in highly-competitive markets and should
have no difficulty in living-up to this
reputation. At the same time, it may
be over-optimistic to look for short-term
benefits over and above the 15 p.c. div.
The sharemarket expresses its con-
fidence in the undertaking by pricing the
ss. ords. at 13s. 9d. to return £5 9s. Id.
p.c. from a 15 p.c. distribution. At
balance-date there was 425. 9d. in net
tangibles for every £ of share-capital, the
prefs. participating with the ords. in any
surplus on return of capital.
Australian Stock Breeders Co., Ltd.
/Criticism is frequently levelled at the
Australian meat industry with sug-
gestions of inefficiency and outmoded
methods in the raising of beef north of
Capricorn ; of holdings crying out for
improvement and vast cattle ranges sup-
porting sometimes only two or three head
of stock to the square mile. Criticism
justifiable, no doubt, were it not for the
tremendous problems confronting meat
producers of the Far North.
In 1952, when the 15-Year Meat
Agreement was effected with the U.K.,
Australia could look forward to a guaran-
teed market for its meat and some
jmeasure of price stability. Security has
fostered research and development and
many difficulties have been overcome.
Present and short-term prospects are
good. Although recent negotiations under
the agreement have resulted in lower
minimum prices for beef and veal from
1961 to 1964 —down 9 p.c. on the 1958-59
level—U.K. demand for Australian beef
(chilled and frozen, especially chilled)
has improved, and prices have risen above
the minimums prescribed. This stems
principally from the drastic reduction
of beef-exports by Argentina—down 30
p.c. on last year, and is supported by
lower production in Britain and by diver-
sion of much of New Zealand’s trade to
U.S. markets. Argentine herds have been
seriously depleted under the strain of
heavy exports and excessive home-con-
sumption ; and everything points to a
general world-wide shortage of beef for
the next two or three years. The recent
negotiations granted Australia the right
to export first- and second-grade quality
beef, up to 7500 tons a year (“the beef free-
quota”), during 1961-64 to markets other
than the U.K. and also gave unrestricted
licence to export lower graded with no
limit on quantity. The immediate market
in the U.S. is good, especially in demand
for manufacturing (“hamburger”) lines
but with growing replenishment of herds
in the States, requirements will tend,
before long, to taper off.
The Australian Stock Breeders Co
owns a chain of four breeding properties,
together with a stud and fattening
property. This cattle kingdom comprises
some of the most cruel and difficult
stock-country in the world. Its province
stretches from back of Cairns to the
hinterland of the Gulf, a region parched
and thirsty for most of the year;
watered, when fortune smiles, by an
unreliable wet. Natural pastures are poor


Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hudsonian” Brisbane
J. B. & FRANK CHARLTON
F. B. Charlton, .T. F. Charlton, J. M. Fay, C.A.B. Marjason, J. L. Russell
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange.)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Third Floor, City Mutual Building, 309 Queen St., Brisbane
Telephone: 2 2775, 2 4349 G.P.O. Box No. 61A
profitable
p.a
FOR 3 YEARS AND OVER
9% for 2 years 8% for 1 year
Guaranteed by
an Independent
Insurance Company
who issue a separate indemnity policy direct to the
depositor, covering principal and interest.
• Your money is guaranteed by an independent
Insurance Company who, if necessary, are liable to
repay your principal and interest.
# Interest is paid quarterly.
9 £5OO accrues to £1,023 in 7i years.
This outstanding investment is again available with
Manufacturers'
(N.S.W.) FINANCE COMPANY
2nd Floor, Northern House, 13/15 O'Connell St., Sydney.
Telephone BW 2661 (10 lines). M|9
POST THIS COUPON
Manufacturers' (N.S.W.) Finance Company,
Box 4790, G.P.0., Sydney, for detailed brochure.
YOUR NAME
YOUR ADDRESS.
B. 24/6 /'59
and foddering cattle is un-
economic. Tick worry, internal
parasites, pleuro-pneumonia
and thirst all take their toll.
Despite this difficult back-
ground Australian Stock
Breeders has made consider-
able progress in the last two
years. The co. secured a loan
of £45,000 from the Inverleigh
Pastoral Co. and with the aid
of these funds effected improve-
ments to its properties to the
value of £60,972. The con-
templated tank-projects were
finally completed and all hold-
ings now have supplies of
water. Nevertheless, with
severe droughts in ’57 and ’5B
the number of deaths increased.
The mortality rate amongst
calves and breeding stock rose.
Brandings fell from 16,848 in
’57 to 12,256 in ’5B, a fall which
would have been considerably
greater had it not been for the
policy of water-improvement
just concluded. Turn-off for
’57 was 6261 in fat bullocks
and cows and 6144 in ’5B.
Closing stock of cattle, after
deducting estimated mortality
figures, fell from 70,725 in
’57 to 67,066 last year. Stud
Hereford included in these
figures rose from 1681 head to
1877. In his annual report
dated lanuary ’59, chairman
N. Jameson referred to good
rains which had then fallen on
all the co.’s stations. Subse-
quent weather conditions
suggest, in general, a reason-
ably favorable outlook for the
balance of the current term.
Profits have risen steadily
from the 1956 low, lifting in
’5B £11,374 above the ’57
figure to £43,683. Reserves
rose over the same period by
£28,300 to £120,602. Earning
rate on ord. capital (after
covering £6649, the 6.2 p.c.
div. on prefs.) reflects the fall
and subsequent improvement
in profits and reserves: 1954,
15.5 p.c.; 1955, 38.8 p.c.;
1956, 7 p.c. ; 1957, 23.5 p.c. ;
and 1958, 33.9 p.c. Dividends
paid in these years, on the
£109,165 ord. capital were 6 p.c.,
8 p.c., 6 p.c., 8 p.c., and 8 p.c.,
respectively, and at current
market-valuation of 15s. 4d. for
the 10s. ords. the shares would
yield 5.2 p.c. from an 8 p.c.
div. Last term’s profits have
been ascertained after deduct-
ing depreciation , written-off
leaseholds and improvements
£13,555 (up £4612 on ’57) and
tax provision, amount un-
stated.
, »—Dividends —— N Re-
Nov., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total serves
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1949.. 13.131 6.2 5.5 12,654 1,060
1950.. 15.791 7 7 15,149 1,702
1951.. 14.115 6.2 5 12,108 3,709
1952.. 9,299 6.2 5 11,016 1,992
1953.-16,462 6.2 6 13,199 5,255
1954.. 23.555 6.2 6 13,199 15,611
1955.. 49,029 6.2 8 15,383 49,257
1956.. 14.318 6.2 6 13,199 50,376
Provision for contingencies
disclosed, £25,000 . . 75,376
1957.. 32.309 6.2 8 15,383 92,302
,1958. .43,683 6.2 8 15,383 120,602
Apart from the sizeable
addition to reserves, balance-
sheet values, with slight vari-
ations, remained almost the
same as those of 1957, the one
exception being the smaller
bank overdraft. Loan monies
received from the Inverleigh
Pastoral Co. enabled the co. to
reduce its bank outstandings
by £26,053 to £92,554 and this
reduction was the main factor
in increasing theoretical work-
ing capital to £174,604 (up
£23,223).
Paid capital— 1956. 1957. 1958.
Pref. .. £107,249 £107,249 £107,249
Ord. . . 109,165 109,165 109,165
Reserves.. 50,376 92,302 120,602
Loan,
mortgage 60,000 105,000 105,000
Overdraft . 53,924 118,607 92,554
Creditors,
etc. .. 34,629 11,058 10,450
Final divs. 13,199 15,383 15,383
£428,542 £558,764 £560,403
Freehold and
leaseholds 152,478 262,335 267,412
Livestock . 209,645 246,608 249,105
Stores . . 56,023 37,279 30,009
Cash, debtors,
etc. . . 10,396 12,542 13,877
£428,542 £558,764 £560,403
Net tangible asset-cover at
balance-date for the prefs. is
625. lOd. and for the ords.
21s. Id.
Provided expectations of
more favorable weather con-
ditions are fulfilled, Australian
Stock Breeders should increase
profits in the current year.
Last term five more high-
quality stud-bulls were pur-
chased for the “Lyndhurst”
property. The resultant better-
ing of the herd-cattle, together
with the developmental im-
provements to property recently
effected by management, should
enable the co. to secure for
itself a bigger and juicier slice
of the easier export markets.
Union Trustee Co.
/Corporate trustees, such as
the Union, carry-out a wide
range of varied and complex
services for a moderate charge,
the rates of commission relat-
ing to these services being
limited, in many instances, by
statute.
Substantially unchanged over
the first half of the century,
the scales of commissions apply-
ing in the Eastern States were
increased in 1952, this rather
tardy acknowledgement of the
impact of inflation on salaries
arid other expenses covering
new business only. As a result,
the improvement in commis-
sion-income, from the barely—
if at all—profitable level pre-
vailing immediately prior to the
increase, has been gradual,
rather than spectacular, and
although the net profit claimed
by the Union last term was
the highest since 1930, it repre-
sented a return on paid capital
of only a little over 13 p.c.
Share-capital in trustee cos.
is usually represented by
statutory guarantee - funds,
Government securities, free-
holds, etc., and the return from
these investments is, more
often than not, the main
source of divs. to shareholders.
Among the largest corpbrate
trustees in the country, the
74-year-old Union operates
throughout Victoria, New
South Wales and Queensland,
where, with a long experience
in pastoral business behind it,
the co. acts as trustee, admini-
strator, guardian and agent.
The Union is also interested in
the Central Share Registry of
Australia, an organisation,
formed early last year to
maintain share-, debenture-
and note-registers, etc., on
behalf of public cos.
After providing for contin-
gencies, commissions collected
last term (to February 28) rose
by £12,335 to a record £350,494,
a further £33,917 (up £1961) in
gross rents, interests, etc.,
taking total income to £384,411
(up £14,296):
Commissions, Exes. p.c.
Interest, etc. Exes. Earnings.
1954 ..£291,176 £281.133 96.5
1955 .. 308.328 294,102 95.4
1956 .. 320,532 307,060 95.8
1957 .. 343,209 328,070 92.6
1958 .. 370,115 353,220 95.4
1959 .. 384,411 366,321 95.3
Including provision for taxa-
tion (£6ll higher at £17,065)
and the year’s outlay on office-
equipment, motor-vehicles, etc.


n
Over-subscriptions
stilt being accepted
o
Per annum 7 or 10 years
0
o
PER ANNUM
FIVE YEARS
0
o
PER ANNUM
THREE YEARS
0
0
PER ANNUM
TWO YEARS
10/
2 /O
PER ANNUM
ONE YEAR
INTEREST PAYABLE HALF YEARLY
Free of exchange in capital cities
ISSUE IT PAS OF
£250,000 REGISTERED
DEPOSIT NOTES
CHEVRON
QUEENSLAND LIMITED
To raise funds for an extensive building programme
Chevron Queensland Limited launches this
£250,000 Registered Deposit Note Issue.
10% per annum means your money doubled in ten
years. Invest for maximum returns and security
with Chevron Queensland Limited.
Get full particulars from . . .
UNDERWRITING BROKERS:
CORRIE & CO. WALTER P. HAH & CO.
(Members of the (Members of the Stock
Brisbane Stock Exchange) Exchange of Melbourne)
BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, 105 QUEEN ST..
SURFERS PARADISE. Phone MU6551. MELBOURNE
TRUSTEE FOR THE DEPOSIT NOTEHOLDERS:
QUEENSLAND UNITED INVESTMENTS LTD.,
400 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
THE PROSPECTUS FOR THIS ISSUE COMPLIES
FULLY WITH THE NEW VICTORIAN COMPANIES
ACT OF 1958.
OBTAIN A COPY OF THE PROSPECTUS
. . . from the Underwriting Brokers or any member of a recognised
Stock Exchange in Australia, or from any Branch of the Bankers
to the Issue:
AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND BANK LTD.
COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
CHEVRON QUEENSLAND LIMITED
Cavill Avenue, Surfers Paradise, Queensland
Please send me a copy of the Prospectus of the Deposit
Note Issue.
Address
CQ2/B
(up £4199 at £9212), expenses
climbed at much the same
rate to absorb 95.3 p.c. of total
income, as against 95.4 p.c. in
the preceding term.
The higher investment-
income appears to have
accounted for well over half
of the £1195 inrease in net
earnings, which, at £18,090,
were equal to 13.1 p.c. on paid
capital compared with 12.3, 11,
9.8 and 10.3 p.c. back to
1955:
To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. serves, serves.
£ p.c. & £• £
’54.. 10,043 7 = 9,625 418 92,000
’55.. 14,226 8 = 11,000 3,226 95,286
’56..13,472 8 = 11,000 2,472 97,758
’57.. 15,139 8 = 11,000 4,139 101,897
To prov. long-service leave,
, £14,000 87,897
’58..16,895 9 = 12,375 4,520 92,417
’59.. 18,090 10 s= 13,750 4,340 96,757
Raised from 8 p.c. to 9 p.c. in
the ’5B term, the div.-rate was
hoisted to 10 p.c. (the highest
point reached for almost 30
years) to give an average div.-
rate for the past decade of
7.7 p.c.
Steady at £137,500 since
1931, share-capital is in 50s.
ords. paid to 275. 6d., all but
2s. 6d. of the uncalled liability
being in the nature of a reserve
and callable only in the event
of liquidation.
A mortgage-loan of £BO,OOO
was arranged by the co. last
term to finance improvements
to the Melbourne freehold and
the purchase of new branch-
premises at Toowoomba (Qld.)
and Newcastle (N.S.W.).
Against this liability and pro-
visions for tax (£34,500), divs.
(£6990) and long-service leave
(£14,000), the' balance-sheet
showed assets of £369,747 at
February 28 last (freeholds,
£244,263 ; cash and guarantee-
deposits, £124,157 ; book-debts,
etc., £1327), shareholders’
funds of £234,257 equalling
345. Id. for each £ of paid
capital.
Over the past few years the
Union has been able to couple
a more attractive, earning-rate
with the high degree of capital-
security enjoyed by its scrip
(in times of reasonably stable
money-values) and sharemarket
support has strengthened
accordingly.
However, the market also
recognises that, under existing
conditions, there is little pros-
pect of direct capital-gains or
a big improvement in the div.-
rate and prices the scrip at
around 38s. to return £7 4s. 9d.
p.c from a 10 p.c. distribution.
O.D.E.
A contract to drill the
deepest stratigraphic test
well yet undertaken by the
Bureau of Mineral Resources
has been awarded to Oil Drill-
ing and Exploration, Ltd. The
well will be at Beagle Ridge,
W.A., about 160 miles north of
Perth.
Drilling will start in July
with a National T2O rig and
the well will be carried to a
depth of about 4500 feet. The
operation is expected to take
about three months.
r .
The purpose of the well is
to investigate the geological
structure of the Beagle Ridge
area as part of a broad Bureau
study of stratigraphy and
structure and geological history
. P Basin. The
information obtained will also
b e h e ipf u i geologically to com-
panies engaged in searching for
oil.


X
j
Best
Mineral
Supplement
For all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over 65%
tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed minimum of
30% phosphoric acid and 40% lime. Because there
is little protein and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do
not pay for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes the
really palatable and wholesome lick.
Tri-Cal-Os
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
*5% Triple.; fWo‘P K *' #
Vic€ct£(k
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR,
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly supplied —
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: G.P.O. Box 3583,
SYDNEY • G.P.O. Box 590, NEWCASTLE
• G.P.O. Box 4058, MELBOURNE • G.P.O.
Box 712 F, ADELAIDE • G.P.O. Box 758 K,
BRISBANE • G.P.O. Box H5BB, PERTI
• G.P.O. Box 533, LAUNCESTON.
FROM LEADING
STOCK & STATION AGENTS
Lendon Airmail
From Herbert Holman
Mr. Charles Clore’s sensa-
tional £2O-million bid for
Watney Mann has taken the
City as much by surprise as
it has scandalised the directors
of this firm of brewers.
For two years or so there
has been no important take-
over struggle which could be
identified with the professional
bidder. The men who acquired
empires and great personal
wealth in the post-war years
have been busy consolidating
their interests. And, for a
number of reasons, it was held
that the heyday was past.
Broadly speaking, take-over
bids were practicable and
profitable because of inflation,
compulsory dividend - limita-
tion, undervaluation of assets
and complacent management.
Board-rooms naturally took
protective action, and a Gov-
ernment directive to insurance-
companies preventing them
from buying freeholds to lease
back to the vendor removed
the main attraction of the
deal.
Another factor which in-
hibited the bidder was the
need, as the technique became
more complex, to be business-
man as well as financier. That
is to say, the price of the share-
offer had to discount the
rewards from more efficient
and energetic management.
With Mr. Isaac Wolfson, for
example, it was held that fur-
ther conquests would mean
spreading-out into new fields.
(His basic plan was to make
furniture available to wage-
earners ; he did so, but they
have since become more
ambitious, seeking to acquire
cameras, cars, foreign holidays,
and so on.)
Trouble Brewing?
It is not only the magnitude
of Mr. Gore’s bid which is
sensational. He is evidently
now ready to undertake the
kind of further conquest which
may be deterring others. If
he succeeds, either directly by
gaining control of Watney
Mann, or indirectly by forc-
ing the brewers to recognise
his arguments, the nature of
the industry must change
dramatically.
For the implication is that
Watney Mann’s assets and
resources are not being used
to the maximum of efficiency
and profitability. This despite
a major amalgamation last year,
a statement by its chairman,
Mr. Combe, that moves in
connection with the develop-
ment of its properties are
pending, and the fact that
brewers have already spent
much money and enterprise in
modernisation plans.
Mr. Clore is looking far
ahead. He realises that drink-
ing habits have changed. The
cosy English pub, dear to fic-
tion and overseas visitors, is
dead. He sees not the'tradi-
tional set-up of three or four
different-priced bars, but a
one-class affair, brightly lit and
furnished, where the serving of
beer is not the main function.
There, will also be soft-drinks
and food. The bar, moreover,
will occupy a comparatively
small place in a block of
offices or shops or flats. In
other words, he will develop
property out of pubs. Watney
Mann own - nearly 3700
licensed premises.
The social aspects of the bid
are not the least interesting.
Most breweries are long-
established (Combe and Co. in
1787), and their board-rooms
have become dynasties. The
brewing families are closely
linked and of the same top-
drawer background Eton,
White’s and the M.C.C. (two
directors of Watney Mann
have captained England at
cricket).
Mr. Clore, though a man-
about-town whose natural
home is Mayfair, is the son of
a Whitechapel tailor. He is
tough but scrupulous, and it
is certain that, backed by a
shrewd and experienced organ-
isation, he has carefully
assessed the pros and cons.
The outcome of the struggle
remains to be Seen. It is the
first time that a constituent of
the “Financial Times” index
has become the focus of a
take-over bid. But financial
circles are certainly not aghast
at Mr. Clore’s effrontery.
Shareholders stand to gain
either way, and, whatever
happens, one must acknow-
ledge that the move is in the
right direction —towards pro-
gress.
Drama in Despond
For more than a decade the
last section of this column has
been devoted to the theatre,
primarily with the object of
bringing to the notice of
Bulletin readers the best new
straight plays. A glance at
the diary is in revealing con-
trast to this aim, for the
engagements, two past and two
future, are all musical-
comedies.
The English Stage Company,
it is true, has contrived to put
on a first play, “Orpheus
Descending,” at the Royal
Court, but this is scarcely of
high moment, since the author
is Tennessee Williams, the
work dates from 1939, the title
is the fourth, and the mixture
is tedious as well as horrible.
The other new plays are light
fare, including an early Lons-
dale and a conventionally up-
roarious farce in the Aldwych
tradition.
Clearly, the drama is once
again in the slough of neglect
and the London theatre gener-
ally may be due for another
spell of euphoria.
An investigation conducted
by Richard Findlater and pub-
lished as a pamphlet by the
Fabian Society confirms this
view. The financial set-up and
increasing production - costs
force managers to choose
shows for their “long-running”
possibilities. “Their ideal
drama is the one that will run
for ever.” Artistically, this is
bad for writers, actors and
audiences, too. It is no less
than calamitous for the drama
unless, as happens from time
to time, the fervor of a group
of determined souls unites
them in striving to break down
the barriers. But the odds
against achievement are so
heavily stacked that the life
of such ventures is invariably
short.
How can one explain the
spate of musicals when pro-
duction-costs in each instance
amount to £25,000 or more?
Only by reasoning that a
bigger net catches more fish.
Maybe, too, the appeal to
coach-parties is stronger.
On this premise, John
Osborne’s essay into words
and music may yet rank as the
supreme folly of the year.
“The World of Paul Slickey”
is not only embarrassing to
the family-party but also
embarrassingly poor and lack-
ing punch. Osborne’s lyrics
are doughy and his production
trite. The first half gets by
as entertainment, but the
second, when not dull or
bathetic, is in bad taste.
Mr. Osborne’s main targets
are Fleet Street and the
Establishment-, but he evi-
dences no inside knowledge of
either ; and such minor sallies
as laconic naval officers, the
income-tax man and the teen-
age idol, have been better
realised elsewhere. Even the
revolting clergyman has a
precedent in Sandy Wilson’s
adaptation of Fir b a n k’s
“Valmouth,” but the rock-and-
roll cortege scene has none.
Marital irregularity is often the
formula of artificial comedy.
Osborne’s characters were
never more ridiculously inter-
mixed. His desire to resolve
a double misalliance by change
of sex is original but some-
thing less than a coup-de-
theatre.


As Others See "The Doll”
GERMAN ACCLAIM: By Curt Prerauer
Ray Lawler’s “The Sum-
mer of the 17th Doll”
hit Germany with the
force of a southerly
buster, sweeping away all those
peculiar, preconceived ideas
which the average German —
if he has any ideas at all—
seems to have about Australia
(often he mixes it up with the
Argentine or Brazil).
The press, with a few excep-
tions, has been full of super-
latives, a few critics stating
quite baldly: “Let’s face it.
There is no dramatist in Ger-
many today who can write
like Lawler.”
Immediately after the Ger-
man premiere in West Berlin
in November, 1957, other lead-
ing theatres like Hamburg,
Munich and Brunswick had
already accepted “The Doll”
and rushed it into production.
Since then it has, without
interruption, been on the pro-
grammes of various theatres
throughout Germany. The
publishers expect it to go on
right through next season, too
- —that is, from next August
till June, 1960.
The Vienna premiere last
January at the Volksthealer,
in the presence of the Austrian
President, with film-star Hilde
Krahl as Olive, was considered
important enough to get a
mention in the London
“Times” and in leading Ger-
man newspapers ; and in April
“The Doll” had its Swiss
premiere at the German-
speaking Basle Theatre.
C'eeing “The Doll” on differ-
ent stages, with different
actors in a foreign language
Lawler can’t have even thought
of in connection with his salty
Australian, the incredible
vitality of the play continues
to knock you out, night after
night, and it doesn’t matter
how often you see it. It never
loses its impact, it never loses
its true Australian flavor, and
the Yarra never gets even
minutely diluted with the
waters of the Rhine or the not-
so-biue Danube.
The most German, the most
Viennese of actors are sud-
denly as dinkum Aussie as they
come, often without even
knowing what a dinkum or any
other Aussie is, anyway. How
to account for this? Great
acting? Sometimes, but not
always, though the general
standard of acting and pro-
ducing in German-speaking
theatres today is extraordin-
arily high. It’s the great
writing—the sheer, overwhelm-
ing power of “The Doll” itself.
And if you’d once seen that
most British of operas “Albert
Herring,” as performed by a
leading company, becoming a
rustic Teutonic frolic with an
atmosphere as heavy as a
German dumpling, you’d
appreciate how easily, theatri-
cally speaking, an authentic
flavor can be lost.
Often after a dress-rehearsal
the translators (that is, this
writer and wife) were asked
for suggestions and criticisms,
but we never pointed out minor
blemishes of background at
such a late stage, when the
underlying significance and the
overall atmosphere were cor-
rect—and in every production
we saw personally they were
always uncannily correct.
Of course, we once saw the
curtain rise on Emma’s
veranda lovingly adorned with
potted prickly-pears. Often
the table was dotted with a
dozen squat bottles of
unlikely - looking Australian
beer ; and no Aussie barmaid
ever poured beer into a glass
the way the Germans do. It
was also a pleasant surprise to
see that Carlton backyards now
have banana-trees.
But we did point out that
rubber-trees are not gum-
trees. This is one of the most
common mistakes in Germany.
It is brought about by a co-
incidence of language. There
is only one word for both
“rubber” and “gum” in
German “Gummi.” Most
Germans think that Australia
is full of rubber-trees.
audiences tend
to be a little puzzled at
the beginning of the play, but
without exception are demon-
stratively enthusiastic by the
last curtain. The problems of
facing-up to time and change
and the end of youth are uni-
versal and seem to have a
special appeal for the Euro-
pean.
We usually write a general
background to the play for the
programmes. The theatregoers
conscientiously read them right
thiough and precede first per-
formances with newspaper-
articles and radio-talks which
all help to give an idea of
Australia and the life of men
like Barney and Roo. Other-
wise, audiences would be con-
fused by the “lay-off” season
and the casual manner in which
a barmaid rings-up the boss to
say she can’t come to work —
she has a headache. Or they
would find Olive’s expensive
clothes quite incredible.
There is nothing like an
Australian bar and nothing
like an Australian barmaid in
Germany. The boss-worker
relationship and the high Aus-
tralian wages need explaining.
Still, error dies slowly. We
were pleading with editors to
have Sydney spelt with its two
y’s, when we saw a Qantas
advertisement in the most
intellectual of German maga-
zines offering to kangaroo-hop
the Germans to Down Under
and nonchalantly spelling
Sydney as “Sidney.” We
gave-up.
THE AUTHORS
Before World War II Curt Prerauer, who describes the
German productions of “The Doll,” was assistant to Leo Blesch,
of the Berlin State Opera; he went across to help the 8.8. C.
produce Berg’s difficult opera “Wozzeck,” and came to Australia
with the D’Abravanel opera company. Here he married the
Australian contralto Marea Wolkowsky, and after the war they
went abroad. Marea has appeared at Covent Garden and in
Italy, Spain and Portugal. Their translation of “The Doll”
ran in Berlin, Munich and Hamburg in the 1957-8 season,
and was to have been done by 14 different companies in the
1958-9 season. Curt Prerauer broadcasts on German radio on
“anything from wool to abo. art”; and the pair are at
present making translations for the “first anthology of Australian
verse to be published in German.”
Walter McVitfv, who gives the American view, was bom
and educated in Melbourne. He has visited 18 countries in
the course of his travels and was a schoolteacher in London
before going to Canada two years ago. He is at present on the
staff of St. George’s School, Montreal, which he describes as
“one of the most interesting educational establishments in
North America.”
AMERICAN
REACTION
By Walter McVitty
<‘ /■ pj he Doll” was a con-
siderable success in
JL London, but a dismal
failure in New York.
Australians who know life in
Britain and North America are
not surprised at this, but a
less-informed Australian, be-
lieving (so erroneously) that
we have become, in this
decade, more American than
English, may wonder why New
Yorkers failed to enjoy this
fresh Australian breeze on
Broadway.
The critics politely com-
plimented the play itself, but,
in the real measure of success
in the U.S.A. —the box-office —
the show was a flop. The chief
reason for this was Lawler's
failure to understand fully the
American mind. The breeze
was too pure. It should have
been sanitised, deodorised and
air-conditioned.
The Canadian story is
different. The Toronto Crest
Theatre’s production was on
safer ground. In this country,
such a sentence as Barney’s
“Take the weight off your
feet” can at least be under-
stood, because Canadians, un-
like Americans, have not
entirely lost their English feel-
ing for graphic English. The
play, like Australian speech in
general, is so full of vernacu-
lar that this must be a con-
stant irritation to American
audiences, who, naturally,
want to “belong.”
The Londoner found much
that was new in the dialogue,
but at least his background of
metaphor gave him enough to
go on. The Americans, whose
vernacular is surprisingly thin,
even when spared such words
as “crook” or “blue,” can only
o Continued on page 44)


"N
S 3
* •
Damocles said:
“Thss reallq slaqs me!”
Not an unreasonable statement when a sword, suspended by a
horse-hair, is dangling above your head. Being a prudent type
he got out but fast.
Prudent types just don’t sit waiting for the blow to fall. It’s so
easy to cushion the financial effects. There are not many things
you can’t insure against, with the A.M.P., these days.
You never know how the cards will fall.
Your A.M.P. man has all the Fire and General as well as Life
information you may need.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
GENERAL MANAGER: M. C. BUTTFIELD
Every A.M.P. member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by funds exceeding £400,000,000 which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.
Q 0748


High Maharajah
By
MENA ABDULLAH
and
RAY MATHEW
Summer was done. The
sky that had been white
with heat was blue. The
days that had been long
and heavy were short and
gentle. All day now we could
have flown our kites.
We flew them in the after-
noons in the big paddock that
had been cleared for the
horses. There was no scrub
there to trip us as we ran,
no trees to trap or tear the
kites.
My kite, like Lai’s, was
home - made. Its face was
newspaper (brown paper was
too heavy), but when it was
swaying in the sky it looked
grey and beautiful. But it was
the tail that was really beauti-
ful. It was red - and - green
cloth that Ama had dyed
especially to be beautiful.
Rashida’s kite was different.
It sang. It had come from
India. When Rashida was
born —she was the first-born
—an old friend of Father’s
had sent it to him, for her.
It had been bright-green when
she had first flown it, but that
was a long time ago and it
had had many colored faces
since then. But the sticks and
the pierced bamboo-reed that
was the kite’s voice, they were
always the same.
The colored paper to make
its faces came from Song
Ling, a Chinaman who had a
store in town. Sometimes his
goods were packed in colored
paper, and he always saved
it for us. A long time ago,
in China, he had flown kites
too. Father kept the paper
in a £ox. It was used only for
Rashida’s kite, which we all
knew was special; it could
sing.
We wound the kite - strings
round bamboo rollers which
Father had brought with him
from the Punjab. He had been
the best kite-flyer in his village.
He used to tell us stories of
the kite-seasons there and of
the Basant Panchami, the
spring festival, when all India
flew kites and there were com-
petitions to see who flew them
best.
Ama told us stories, too ;
legends about brave young
rajahs using kites as mes-
sengers of love, of a general
who cheered his soldiers b.y
tying a lantern to a kite
and telling them it was
the star of victory, of
villagers who all night long
flew singing-kites so that they
might sing away every harm
and hurt.
T)ut these things belonged to
■ India and legend and not
to Rashida, not to Lai and not
to me. We flew our kites be-
cause we loved the dip and
dive and sway of them against
the sky, the tug of the string
on the rollers in our hands.
That was why we took the
billy of flour-and-water paste,
the paper for mending, the
string and our kites down to
the big paddock and chased
the horses away from us,
down to the far end where
the trees were.
“Rashida,” I said, “there is
no string for your kite.”
She looked at the rollers.
“I’ll use ordinary string.”
“Your kite’s too big.
Father said you had to use
the thick string.”
“It will be all right,” said
Rashida. “The wind is not
strong today.”
We were tying the string
to the kites when Lai men-
tioned the High Maharajah.
We looked up at the sky,
looked in every direction.
“He is not here,” said
Rashida.
“He always comes when we
fly our kites,” I said.
“We can’t fly them unless
we ask him,” said Lai, looking
as though he would cry. “He
is the king of the sky.”
“We can’t ask him,” said
Rashida, “if he’s not here.”
We stared at the third hill.
It was from there that he
always came.
“Perhaps he can see us,”
I said, “even if we can’t see
him.”
“But we have to ask,” said
Lai. “We always ask him
first.”
“I suppose we could
salaam,” said Rashida. “That
should satisfy him.”
But it was Lai she was
thinking about, not the High
Maharajah.
We bowed very low towards
the third hill. Then Rashida
began grabbing at the kites.
We put Lai's kite up first;
he was little and always
needed help. Then Rashida
and I put mine up ; some-
times I needed help, too. Then
Rashida put her own up ; she
was bigger than we were and
she never needed help.
The kites flew high, riding
the wind. The newspaper
kites danced, and Rashida’s
bright orange kite sang for
them, sang for us, sang for
the whole world. The string
spun on the rollers, playing
out and out, while the kites
danced higher. They were
pulling at our hands and arms
and we were running with
them. It was as though we
were flying and dancing, too.
Suddenly Lai gave a shout.
“Look! The High Mahara-
jah ! ”
And there he was the
High Maharajah of the Sky,
the great eagle that owned the
air. Serenely and without
haste he circled the three kites.
His wings hardly moved. He
glided solemnly while they
danced for him and Rashida’s
kite sang. And then, as if
approving, he soared suddenly
high, higher than all the kites
in the world. He circled once
more, looking at us, and then
flew towards the third hill.
“He is beautiful,” said
Rashida.
“He is too big,” I said. “I
am glad he doesn’t come close
to us.”
“He is the High Maharajah,”


SAVE
£5OO to
£lOOO P.A.
IN TAX
This Year and
Each Year
(or the Next 5 Years
A strictly Limited Offer of
Outstanding Tax Savings
Opportunity to Recipients
of
Higher-than-average
Incomes
Particulars by Personal
Interview. For Appoint-
ment, phone—■
MA 9855
D. M. CLARKE
& COMPANY
Tax Consultants
11 Randle Street, Sydney.
said Lai. “He would never
hurt us.”
“I want to fly,” said
Rashida, and she jumped up
and down with her kite as
though she were flying already.
“If I could fly I would go so
far, so far up, that no kite
could catch me. I’d be so high
that you, Nimmi, and you,
Lai, would look like ants —■
would look smaller than ants.
I would fly up so high that
I could see all the world,
everything, the whole world
spread out like a carpet.”
She flung out her arms to
show us how wide the world
was. The roller fell from her
hand, and her kite began to
leap away.
I screamed and Lai shouted
and Rashida grabbed des-
perately to catch the string.
It was cutting her hand, but
she held on to it. With my
free hand, I tried to pick up
her roller. I just got it when
Rashida jerked the string, to
make it hurt less, and it
snapped. It snapped high-up,
further than Rashida could
jump, further than we could
reach. We could only stand,
Lai and I with our newspaper
kites and Rashida with her
useless string, and watch the
singing-kite fly upwards and
away from us like a bird that
had been set free.
At home, Ama scolded
Rashida and called her
impatient. She sat discon-
solate.
“No tears,” said Father.
“I will write to India. We will
get another singing-kite.”
“It will not be the same,”
said Rashida. “It will not be
mine for being born.”
We were out searching for
it when we saw Mr. Angus.
He was our neighbor, a big
man with a voice so loud it
frightened you, but with so
many smiles that that didn’t
matter.
“Oh, Mr. Angus!” said
Rashida. “Have you seen an
orange kite?”
“No kites today,” he said.
“Not even orange ones.”
Suddenly he looked up at the
sky. “There’s that eaglehawk
again. Savage-looking brute.”
“It’s the High Maharajah,”
I said. “He wouldn’t hurt a
fly.”
“Not thinking of flies,” said
Mr. Angus. “Thinking of your
father’s lambs. I’ll shoot him
if he comes near my place.”
“You couldn’t shoot him!”
We were shocked.
“You’re right,” he said. “I
couldn’t shoot him. Too quick,
too mean, too cunning.”
I looked at his gun. “But
if you see him again”
“I’ll raise my hat to him.”
The next day Mr. Angus
came to our place. He had
brought some things from
town that Father wanted on
the farm. “That kite,” he said.
“Did you find it?”
“No,” said Rashida. “We
will never find it.”
“Then you’d better look at
these.” He handed her a long
thin parcel.
“I’ll take them back, if you
don’t like them.”
“Kites! ” said Rashida.
“Australian kites!”
There were three of them ;
one pink, one green, one
orange. Father and Mr. Angus
put the sticks together and
fitted the faces over them.
They were big kites, as tall as
Lai, and the orange one was
for Rashida.
But when we were running
down to the paddock to fly
them Rashida said, “It is not
the same. There is no kite in
Australia that can sing.”
“What is the Maharajah
doing?” said Lai.
TTe was there, at the foot
of the third hill, flying
low over the bush and scrub.
Sometimes he swooped down
out of sight. We watched and
saw him do it many times.
He would hover over the one
place, circling and dipping,
then he would fall towards the
ground. He was like a kite
that would not stay up.
“There must be something
wrong with him,” said
Rashida. “He must be hurt.
Lai, you mind the kites.
Nimmi and I are going to see
what’s the matter with him.”
“I’m not going,” I said.
“He’s too big. We should go
and get Father.”
“We won’t go close,” said
Rashida. “Just close enough
to see if he is hurt.”
I followed her then, as I
always did.
The Maharajah hadn’t risen
for a long time, but we walked
towards the scrub around
which he had hovered. The
track was overgrown. It was
rocky and the trees grew low
to the ground.
“We should go back now.
He must have flown away.”
“Just a little bit further.”
Rashida kept saying that.
At last she leant against a
big rock. “We’ll go back
now,” she said. “He is no-
where here.”
Suddenly there was a noise
from the other side of the
rock. There was a movement
of branches and a sound like
a rushing wind. We looked
up and saw red eyes, hooked
beak and huge red-brown
feathered body. The wings
were beating over our heads
and the great bird was very
close.
We clung to each other,
hiding our eyes, terrified. But
we couldn’t hide our ears. The
beating of those mighty wings
became the beating of our
own hearts.
{Continued on page 45)
THE DEATH OF ORPHEUS
A Pindaric Ode
Li.
When the hep-cat sisters of Thrace got on the hops
They were gone, I mean gone, about Orpheus, the singer
of pops,
They tore off his legs, and they tore off his arms, and they
tore off his head,
And it had a surprising effect upon the crops.
1.11.
All the plants and the animals, the birds and the bees
and the trees,
That were frozen by the Greek sheik’s musical sorceries
Got back in the groove, making honey, making nests,
making love,
And waving fruitful branches in the breeze.
1.111.
“So bye-bye, sisters, you stole my heart and liver,”
Sang the head of Orpheus, floating down the river;
“Good-night, ladies, l bid you-all adieu,
There never have been critics as implacable as you.”
Il.i.
Now, after five-thousand years, in foreign lands,
They found this antique Greek’s lost head and hands,
And the right hand plink-a-plonked upon the lyre,
Making classical music no one understands.
11.11.
And the left hand took to doodling abstract art,
And the head sang songs that were terribly, terribly smart,
But the brainless hand made everything look insane,
And the lyrics that the head sang had no heart.
11.111.
O Head and Hands of Orpheus, you’ve taken every trick
Because you have no body for the critical to kick,
But woe, woe, O Critics, you’re losing your wits,
Because there is no Orpheus for you to tear to bits!
n.s.w.
RONALD McCUAIG.


Canada's Inland Seaway
When the Queen and
President Eisenhower
officially open the St.
Lawrence Seaway on
Friday, June 26, the ceremony
will mark the culmination of
a work which began over 150
years ago. Dreams of it go
back further still —probably to
the day in 1535 when Jacques
Cartier found that the Lachine
Rapids, a little way upstream
from where Montreal now
stands, blocked navigation
which to that point had been
unimpeded all the way from
the mouth of the St. Lawrence,
1000 miles away.
Montreal is a port for ocean-
going steamers, and a channel
with a depth of 35ft., capable
of taking all but the biggest
vessels, is maintained all the
way to the Atlantic. The pur-
pose of the seaway is to open-
up a further 400 miles of river,
thereby giving ocean steamers
entry to the Great Lakes.
Work on a project to over-
come or bypass natural barriers
to navigation beyond Montreal
began in 1800, and the Lachine
Cana! was opened in 1825. It
was a small affair, providing
a 9ft. channel, and was the
first of several which were con-
structed during the next few'
decades, making it possible for
small craft to trade between
Montreal and Lake Ontario,
Between 1883 and 1901 these
canals were replaced by a 14ft.
system. v
its mouth to about 150
miles west of Montreal
the St. Lawrence River is
wholly in Canadian territory ;
west of that point it becomes
the boundary between Canada
and the United States, so its
navigation is a matter which
concerns the two countries.
For that reason, when at the
beginning of this century
engineers began discussing as
a practical proposition the
deepening of the canal-system
to provide a waterway which
would enable steamers to sail
from European ports direct to
the industrial towns that had
sprung-up on the shores of the
Great Lakes, the two Govern-
ments set up the International
Waterways Commission. This
body, after much discussion
and investigation, drew-up
plans for a 30ft. canal, with
the necessary locks and dams.
The project was approved by
U.S. Congress, but before a
beginning could be made
lobbyists from American rail-
road companies and Atlantic
ports got busy and the whole
scheme was shelved.
When it became clear that
U.S. co-operation could not be
counted on, Canada began
construction, in 1913, of the
Welland Ship Canal, to con-
nect Lake Ontario and Lake
Erie, bypassing Niagara Falls.
World War I held up the work
soon after it was started and
the job was not finished until
1932. Built at a cost of $132
million, the canal had a depth
of 25ft., and its system of locks
provided a lift of 326 ft., the
difference in levels between the
two lakes. -
The Welland Canal w'as
really the first part of the
present St. Lawrence Seaway ;
it might be described as the far-
end of it.
/"''o-operation between the
tw'o North American
neighbors did not become
effective until after World War
11, and then largely because the
Great Lakes freighter on the Welland Canal.
hydroelectric potential of the
scheme became apparent to
commercial interests on both
sides of the border. In the
1930’s the need for additional
sources of electric-power was
not immediate or urgent; by
the 1950’s it was important
enough to be the deciding
factor in getting the seaway
project completed. It was
agreed that Canada should con-
struct five of the seven locks
required in the scheme and the
United States two ; it was also
agreed that the State of New
York and the Province of
Ontario should share equally
in the electricity produced by
a power-house at Long Sault
Dam with a capacity of
1,640,000 kw. At this point in
the river the two U.S. locks —-
the Eisenhower and the Grass
River locks —were to be built
just above the towns of
Massena (on the American
bank) and Cornwall (on the
Canadian side). The Canadian
locks were to be built at St.
Lambert and St. Catherine,
near Montreal ; at Beauharnais
(two) on Lake St. Louis ; and
at Iroquois about halfway
between 'Cornwall and Lake
Ontario. Associated with the
locks were canals and dredg-
ing operations to provide a
27ft. channel.
In November, 1954, work
began in earnest, and at its
peak the project employed
22,000 men. In addition to the
major works mentioned, the
scheme involved the resiting at
various points of highways,
railways, the inundations of
farmlands through diversions
of the river, the shifting of
villages and the raising of
bridges. Total cost was about
$450 million, with Canada pay-
ing two-thirds and the U.S.
one-third. Tolls will, it is hoped,
recoup the cost in 50 years.
A lthough the primary pur-
pose of the Seaway is to
give ocean steamers access to
the Great Lakes, it will also
free the shipping of those in-
land seas from captivity.
Vessels of up to 20,000 tons
operate on the Lakes. They
were built there and they shift
huge quantities of grain and
other cargoes, but hitherto they
have had to tranship these
goods into smaller vessels for
the last lap to Montreal.
On the old 14ft. canals this
meant that the cargo of a
20,000-tonner had to be trans-
ferred into seven smaller ships.
The saving in time and ex-
pense should be considerable,
especially when it is remem-
bered that 21 locks had to be
passed through on the old
canals, compared with only
seven on the new Seaway. Last
year, when only three of the
seven new locks were open for
traffic, the transit time for
navigation showed a reduction
of more than half a day.
When the Queen, with the
Duke of Edinburgh, sails up
the St. Lawrence on Friday
(June 26) she will be repeating,
under very different conditions,
the journey her great-grand-
father Edward VII, then Prince
of Wales, made exactly a cen-
tury ago. President Eisenhower
will fly to Montreal to join the
royal party for the inaugural
ceremony, which will take
place along the eastern ap-
proaches to St. Lambert lock,
just above Montreal. The
Royal Yacht Britannia will
then carry the party through
the Seaway, thus officially
opening a new route to the
heart of North America.


start the day riqht!
'M
zr.
OUO»HC
mOE"
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Brisbane Highlights
For those who take notice
of such signs, there was a
clear bit of writing on the
wall as a pointer to the Bris-
bane Cup. On that same
Queen’s Birthday holiday
(Monday, June 15) there was
a meeting with some eight
races on the card in Mel-
bourne ; yet Ron Hutchinson
—who hadn’t gone up for the
opening day of the big Bris-
bane meeting—had apparently
given away all the Flemington
mounts he could certainly have
had, to go north and take the
ride on Macdougal in the Cup.
“Hutch” (as they know him
in the south) has over and over
proved himself one of the very
best distance. riders in "Aus-
tralia. Of course, he’s no
slouch on a sprinter, either
(he also won the first —a seven-
furlongs—race on Cup day on
Royal Descent), but over a
bit of distance there are few
who can judge it so well.
Hopeful reasoning from the
late announcement of Hutchin-
son’s engagement was that
either Hutch himself thought
very highly of Macdougal,
whose third and fourth in two
previous Brisbane Cup runs
showed the right stamina, or
else he’d been told a convinc-
ing story of Macdougal’s
recent improving form ; or it
could have been a bit of both.
Anyway, it all looked promis-
ing ; and so it worked out,
though only just.
Hutchinson—who, all told,
has a bag of 60-odd Cups to
his credit—rode one of his very
best races in landing the big
Brisbane prize by a matter of
inches from Queensland St.
Leger winner Grand Garry,
with Melbourne Cup winner
Baystone a couple of lengths
away. As well as a nice bit of
timing using Macdougal’s
good finishing run to just get
there on the post —Hutch
showed his shrewdness in
deciding that Grand Garry
was the one to beat, following
the Queensland-bred three-
year-old through the field most
of the way, for a comparatively
easy ride up to when he had
to go all-out in the straight.
The aim of leading Queens-
land racing-clubs to make
Brisbane the all-Australia
winter racing-centre (as it
should be) has paid-off hand-
somely in only a matter of
years. Their big prizemoney
—both for the Stradbroke and
the Ten Thousand sprints and
for the distance Brisbane and
Doomben Cups—and a handi-
capping policy of not crushing
them out with mere weight,
ensures a roll-up of the very
best from all parts, and conse-
quent first-class racing. The
southern sporting - writers’
cliche for the scale of weights
favored —that they’re “flatter-
ing”—looks a bit absurd when
the finishes produced are as
good as those in this year’s
Stradbroke and Brisbane Cup,
in both of which the finishes
were practically identical, with
a visitor downing a Brisbane
horse by only inches, Grey
Ghost having also had that
sort of margin over Second
Earl in his record-making win
in the sprint. Formerly there
were only the Melbourne
Nationals with anything like
Australia-wide interest; the
jumping double still holds
interest, but these days the
Nationals are more local than
they used to be, while Bris-
bane, almost overnight, is now
the winter Mecca for all-
comers.
Perhaps an odd piece of
Brisbane handicapping has
been the tidy weights so far
allotted to Yahabeebe, appar-
ently justified by the mare’s
New Zealand performances,
but with hardly any Austra-
lian form to warrant them. In
general, though, the handicap-
ping is very sound, and is cer-
tainly attractive, with the
Brisbane Cup result just a
representative example. Mac-
dougal—who, on perform-
ances, has been something of
a Christmas horse, though he’s
been a good winner—carried
only 7.11; an inch or two
away, Brisbane’s best three-
year-old, Grand Garry, carried
7.6, while Baystone, with his
Melbourne Cup runaway and
all that behind him, had a top-
weight of only a deserved 9st.
Further —on the all-Australia
and New Zealand side —Mac-
dougal, bred in N.Z., and by
the French horse Marco Polo,
is owned in Sydney and trained
there by former Brisbane
trainer Dick Roden, with the
Melburnian Hutchinson in the
saddle ; the very promising-
looking Queensland-bred and
Brisbane-owned Grand Garry
is by N.Z.-bred 1952 Mel-
bourne Cup winner Dalray, now
at stud in Queensland ; while
Baystone is, of course, one of
the Brimstone (imp.) products,
trained in Sydney by Jack
Green and ridden by Sydney
jockey Camer (not at his best).
Also, Sydney rider Jack
Thompson had the Grand
Garry mount, and may be said
to have had bad luck in strik-
ing Hutch in such good form.
Thompson, for such a good
rider, has been thus very
unlucky at times.
• • • •
Grand Garry looks the one
to watch, if southern handi-
cappers give him a fair go.
He won the Q.T.C. St. Leger
with an acre to spare, and is
a first-rate stayer. Fine and
Dandy was the other chiefly
notable youngster of the Bris-
bane meeting, his Sires’ Pro-
duce Stakes win lifting his
stake-earnings to the record for
a two-year-old of £18,935,
beating even Tulloch (£18,478),
though maybe he’s so far had
it a bit easier than the subse-
quently sadly unlucky champ.
The spread of interest in the
Brisbane racing was further
exemplified on the Q.T.C.’s
final day last Saturday, when
Adelaide Cup winner Mac,
from Melbourne, and —also
from Melbourne former
Westralian good mare Dawdie
both had wins, Dawdie at 33
to 1. Maybe the Brisbane
winter air does something to
them. As well, the filly Golden
Stockade, by Stockade (imp.)
from Hyasha, and bred by Alec
Higgins at his Piercefield Stud,
Muswellbrook (N.S.W.), won
the Queensland Oaks. And, of
course, interest in Brisbane
racing now continues, with the
big Doomben double com-
ing up.
More than half the 111
entrants for the Doomben Ten
Thousand have been handi-
capped below 7.3, and only 18
have between lOst. and Bst.,
with Tulloch —nicely in on his
record, at least—-the only
horse on lOst. Grey Ghost’s
second Stradbroke success
naturally sent him to 9.5, a
rise of 61b. on his Eagle Farm
weight. Second Earl, though,
has been raised 51b., which
does seem a bit stiff for that
defeat. However, with 8.8,
he’s certainly still very much
in the picture, and northern
handicapping has earned
respect.
With 9.3 in the Ten Thous-
and, Gold Stakes is also well
in for a winner of the
Oakfeigh-Newmarket double,
carrying 9.6 in the Newmarket
and winning with wonderful
ease. Tudor Hill, as a Don-
caster winner, is also nicely in
with 8.9 —a drop of 21b. on his
Doncaster weight.
* * *
Sydney Horses
Having her second Sydney
start, New Zealand-owned
two-year-old filly Legato im-
pressed with a stylish win in
the Rosehill Graduation Stakes
for that age-group. She’s by
Someo (imp.), winner of nine
races and sire of many
winners, including Sombrero
(£20,976), and is from the
Bulandshar (imp.) mare Canto.
Boorala was reported last
Saturday morning as being on
trial at Rosehill for the Ten
Thousand, in which he has
7.10, or 111 b. less than his
Flying Handicap weight. He.
ran too badly for it to be true
in the Flying, and a swab
was taken and an inquiry
opened. Pending the result of
that, it may be noted that
horses are not machines, and
certainly Boorala wasn’t the
horse he was when he won at
the same course late in May.
Rosehill was no happy
hunting-ground for followers
of the T. J. Smith stable, and
they don’t bet in pennies. Sun
Feast, Easter Fair and Star
Sovereign, all ridden by Sell-
wood and strongly fancied,
were costly defeats; then, in
the final Welter, along came
New Stand ridden by one of
the Smith apprentices, R.
Tunsted, to easily win at 25


Divor'ce Notices
TO LESLIE ALEXANDER GREIG
FRASER formerly of Magnetic Observa-
tory Watheroo Western Australia. —-
TAKE NOTICE that your wife LESLEY
ELIZABETH MAY FRASER has com-
menced Divorce Proceedings against you
in the Supreme Court of Western Aus-
tralia on the ground of your habitual
failure for three years immediately prior
to the commencement of the action to
make periodical payments of mainten-
ance under an order for separation made
by a competent court If you desire
to defend such proceedings you must file
your Defence in the Central Office of the
Supreme Court at Perth in the State
of Western Australia within forty (40)
days from the date of publication of
this Notice In default of your so
doing the case may proceed and the
Court will pronounce judgment aud
make orders against you in your
absence. DATED this 16th day of June,
1959.—-G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
FRANK UNMACK & CULLEN, of 45
Market Street, Fremantle, Solicitors for
the Plaintiff.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EDNA EDITH MOUNTFORT late
of Cook Road Centennial Park in the
State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that JOHN RICHARD
MOUNTFORT has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 735 of 1959 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards and is
asking for the exercise of the Court’s
discretion under Section 19 (2) (a) of
the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry Mint
Building Macquarife Street Sydney by
the Fourteenth day of August 1959 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MICHELL GEE WILSON
& CLAPIN, Solicitors, of 92 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO RONALD BENNETT MANSELL.—
TAKE NOTICE that ALFREDA MINNIE
MANSELL has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1227 of 1959 on the ground
of desertion for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by 26th August 1959 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from j. BRUCE FERGUSON, Solicitor,
of 84 Pitt Street Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM ALISTAR BARR Mc-
GUIRE CONNELL formerly of 19 South
Terrace Adelaide. —TAKE NOTICE that
DOROTHY CONNELL has issued a Writ
for Divorce No. 566 of 1959 on the
ground of desertion for three years If
you desire to be heard you must file an
appearance at the Master’s Office
Supreme Court Adelaide South Australia
withiii Sixty (60) days of this advertise-
ment otherwise orders for divorce and
costs and maintenance may be made
against you in your absence. —J. L. S.
& H K. TRELOAR, 38 Grenfell Street,
Adelaide. Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
to 1, leading all the way!
Anyway, the lad rode a well-
judged race in front all the
journey.
Little Rock, runaway winner
of the First Parramatta Stakes,
has been in training for the
best part of four seasons and
is still eligible for restricted
events, but the manner of his
latest success, following two
others at Wyong and at New-
castle, point to the five-year-
old soon quitting the restricted
ranks. He is now trained at
Canterbury by Jack Denham,
and was ridden by apprentice
J. Coffey, who has had a
lucky break since transferring
to that stable. The Second
Parramatta was convincingly
won by Herne Hill, who had
also scored just as easily at
his prior start at Canterbury.
Amanullah only just beat
Edspell in the Rosehill Handi-
cap, and it was the vigorous
horsemanship of Jack Thomp-
son that landed the race ; but,
thus winning with 7.13, the
five-year-old Amanullah must
be given a good chance in the
Doomben Cup with 7.3, only
31b. above the limit. As well,
Amanullah had been only just
beaten in three prior photo-
finishes.
* * m
Melbourne Jumpers
There was a new favorite for
the Grand National Hurdle
following the running of the
Toolambool Hurdle at Caul-
field last Saturday. Carrying
11.5 (21b. above his National
weight) Fordell led from the
mile-post to easily win over
the two miles, one furlong and
65yds. It was the eight-year-
old Voluntary gelding’s first
jumping-success since he won a
Hurdle at Flemington in
December, 1957, and his first
start in a jumping-race since
he finished well down the
track in a Steeple at Caulfield
last July. It is a rather curious
record for a horse who has
been allotted top weight in the
National, but Fordell can hold
his own in good handicap
company, and the handicapper
has appraised him accordingly.
He found the National dis-
tance beyond him last year,
but trainer Ray McLaren be-
lieves he's now more seasoned.
There was no positive lead
to the National in the Roisel
Steeple. It was won by Side-
track, who’s not in the National,
his trainer believing the
distance would be beyond him.
It was the first time the nine-
year-old Footmark gelding had
won a jumping-race; despite
many tries. Military Chief,
who had been prominent in
National discussions, toppled
over when going well. Mudeet,
another fancied for the big
race, gave a dreadful display,
to finish at the rear of the
field. However, as the first half-
dozen in the order of fancy
for the National did not run
in the Roisel, form in the race
can be forgotten, with the
possible exception of second-
placegetter Boya, who should
be improved by this, his first
start over fences since last July.
He has only 9.4 in the big race.
Among older horses, winter
form is rarely of much account,
but the same is not true of
two-year-old form, and the
youngsters who won the heats
of the Minook Two-year-old at
Caulfield on Saturday may be
worth remembering. Last year
Webster won a division of this
race, and he turned-out w.-f.-a.
material. The winner of the
first heat on Saturday was Bob
Right (by Bob Major from
Eboli); last spring he raced
four times in good company
for three seconds and a fourth,
and he’s been just as consistent
this time up. Blue Pine, who
finished on from well back to
be third, is by Webster’s sire,
Blue Booklet, from Murray
Pine, and should win soon.
It was suggested here when
Sir Emblem won a heat of the
Lyndhurst Handicap at the
Valley last month that he
might be more than useful
He strengthened that impres-
sion with his win in the second
Minook, which he always had
in his keeping. This colt by
High Peak from Gold Fern has
raced only three times, for a
second at Geelong (when he
protested unsuccessfully) and
two city wins. He has beaten
useful horses easily in both his
city wins, and looks to have
an interesting future. He is
a one-man colt, having been
bred by his owner-trainer,
A. E. Moss, who raced his
dam, Gold Fern.
Owner J. McCraith, himself
a Melbourne man, made a
wise decision when he switched
Gabonia from Sydney to Mel-
bourne. As a two-year-old in
the spring of ’57 Gabonia won
at Randwick, then careered
away with two juvenile races
in Melbourne. Sent back to
Sydney, he raced for 18 months
without scoring again. A
couple of months ago he was
brought back to Melbourne,
where, in four starts, his
record reads, in order: fourth,
second, and two wins. The
second of those wins was an
impressive performance in the
Rosny Plate last Saturday.
Carrying 8.11 in heavy condi-
tions, he ran the six furlongs
in 1.12 9/10, beating Foxley,
a good winter galloper, effort-
lessly. He already carries his
share of weight for a three-
year-old, but it will need con-
siderably more to stop him.


m
'M-
m
g!'
I
S S ■:
iV: i
o
ii
o
i:
Wm
m
■ax-
ay/ot.. yo
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES, DISTILLED & BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
Arthur Bell & Sons Ltd., Distillers, Perth, Scotland. Est. 1825
At Caulfield on Saturday
Sir Chester Manifold, ..chair-
man of the V.R.C., announced
to pressmen that the Melbourne
Cup of 1960 will carry prize-
money of “at least £25,000.”
The reason for the extra-
ordinary prize easily the
richest ever given for a horse-
race in Australia is that the
i 960 Cup will be the 100th
running of the famous race.
It is a long way in time and
money since Archer won the
1861 Cup, run for an adver-
tised prize of 20 sovereigns,
with 10 sovs. forfeit or 5 sovs.
if declared. And yet, pound-
value for pound, probably
Carbine’s prize in the boom-
ing year of 1890 was worth
more than "even next year’s
Cup. In 1890, and again in
1891, the big race carried
£lO,OOO prizemoney. It is Sir
Chester’s hope that the early
announcement of the big prize
will attract horses from over-
seas. Certainly it will have
every owner in Australia and
New Zealand anxious to have
a runner.
* * *
Other Sports
Those who oppose the
staging of inter-State football-
matches in Melbourne received
a strong boost when Victoria
ran rings round W.A. at the
M.C.G. on Saturday, 31.21-3.11.
The Westerners matched Vic-
toria in general play for a time
jn the first quarter, though Victoria
was well ahead, 5.4-1.2, at quarter-
time. Thereafter Victoria, seem-
ingly bent on proving that it was
not the “weak side” some critics
acclaimed it, ran riot. In one live-
minute burst in the second quarter
Victoria slammed on five goalsrand
at half-time led by 16.10-1.41
Young Essendon full-forward
Evans booted nine goals, while the
elusive Abrahams, of Fitzroy, on a
half-forward flank, got seven.
Other Victorian stars were rovers
Skilton (five goals) and Aylett
(lour) and, till he went off at three-
quarter-time, v/jngman Aston.
At Devonport, in a game in
which tempers flared in the last
quarter, Victoria II overwhelmed
Tasmania by 55 points, 17.17-9.10.
* * *
There was no change in
“the four” after the split
V.F.L. round on the Queen’s
Birthday weekend ; but there
was some most interesting
football. Carlton beat Geelong,
but got some shocks from the
youthful Cats, who put on
5.3 to 1.6 in the last quarter ;
Carlton, by only nine points
(12.16 - 11.13). ' Melbourne,
looking now back to top form,
thrashed disappointing Essen-
don by 73 points, 19.15-8.8;
the Demons’ third 19-goal
score in their last five games.
After its four successive defeats,
South, with all its stars back,
drubbed St. Kilda 16.13-7.11,
though the Saints still cling to
fourth possie. In the one
game of any real consequence
on the Saturday North beat
Hawthorn 12.12-8.6, in a fast,
vigorous game —good football
considering the day’s appalling
weather.
* * *
In Sydney’s Rugby Union,
Gordon narrowly beat Uni-
versity 13-11 in a hard game ;
Randwick whitewashed Parra-
matta 37-0 (Parramatta had a
feast of the ball from scrums
and lineouts, but could do
nothing with it; ’Wick centre
Foy marked the occasion with
a try, five goals and three
penalty-goals); Manly met
unexpected opposition from
wooden-spooner Drummoyne
19-13 ; St. George, which
should have scored even more,
outclassed Eastwood 22-3 ;
and East beat North 8-3. At
Napier, in their first game in
N.Z., British Isles absolutely
dazzled Hawkes Bay 52-12.
Hawkes Bay is, however, con-
sidered one of the weakest of
provincial sides —though it
beat the 1958 Wallabies, 8-6.
* * •
In Sydney Rugby League’s
match-of-the-day St. George
demolished Newtown 45-10
after holding a narrow 11-7
lead at half-time ; Saints’ stars
were Test players Gasnier
(three tries), Provan (two tries)
and Raper. (In its previous
two games St. George —with-
out doubt one of the best club
sides ever to play League in
Australia—had crushed Parra-
matta 61-4 and did ditto to
Canterbury 63-12.) In other
matches Balmain, with new
Test captain Barnes scoring
a try and kicking eight goals,
outscored North 31-25, Canter-
bury beat East 17-11, South
beat Parramatta 10-4, all
points coming from penalty-
goals, and, on Sunday, West
managed Manly 19-16. In
Brisbane the N.Z. Kiwis were
too strong and fast for
Queensland 34-19.
* * *
Sydney’s Soccer Federation
remains open, with most teams
in the running for the semi-
finals. In the weekend round,
unbeaten Prague easily re-
mained so, against Granville
5-2 ; Gladesville, carrying two
limping players through the
second half, held-off Apia
2- ; Canterbury, after going
down to lowly Concord in its
last game, beat Bankstown
3- ; Corrimal beat Concord
3-1 ; Sydney Austral and
North Side drew 1-all; and,
on Sunday, Auburn and
Hakoah also drew_ 1-all and
Balgownie beat Budapest 4-2.
Tn a surprise result the
Indian Krishnan easily beat
Neale Fraser 6-3, 6-0, to win
the final of the Queen’s Club.
Fraser won the Queen’s Club
in 1956 (from Rosewall), and
was runner-up to Hoad in
1954 and to Cooper in 1957.
Alex Olmedo, No. 1 seed for
Wimbledon, was (also surpris-
ingly) eliminated by Krishnan
in a semi-final. Australians
Gorman and Hewitt won the
doubles.
* * *
Dragnet: For the third year
in succession, Australian
Stuart Mackenzie won the
senior sculls at Marlow, one
of Britain’s major sculling-
titles. In Brisbane Irish welter
Mick Leahy defeated Queens-
land welter champion Jack
Walsh on a t.k.o. in the fifth
round, while in Melbourne
promising southpaw feather-
weight Les McLean, in his first
main fight, stopped Barry
Molloy in the 10th round.
England comfortably defeated
India, in the second cricket Test,
for a 2-0 lead in the series—
but some of England’s younger
batsmen did none too well
themselves.
* * *
“Mitron”: With the Heart
of Midlothian Soccer tour now
over, let me recall that Queens-
land gave the visitors their
hardest match, a 3-all draw.
Hearts’ manager Tommy
Walker is reported to have
said in Melbourne that the
Queensland State team was the
best team Hearts had met in
Australia, and they had all
easy games after leaving Mel-
bourne: Professor Csanardi,
manager-coach of the Feren-
cvaros (Hungarian) team in
Australia in 1957, also quoted
Queensland as the best team
encountered by Ferencvaros.
This was not propaganda for
State consumption, as both
statements were made after the
teams had left Queensland.
One reason for its good show-
ing against Hearts was that
Queensland had been training
together and playing together
as a team for weeks before the
game.


Between
Ourselves
R\
&
u
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SINGAPORE GOES LEFT
A sampling of press comment
on the sweeping victory
of the Left-wing People's
Action Party jn Singapore’s
first general election under its
new Constitution:
London “Financial Times” :
“Mr. Lee Kuan Yew, leader of
the victorious People’s Action
Party, has had a brilliant
academic record. Born in
Singapore in 1923, he first went
to school at the local Anglo
Chinese school. From there he
gained a scholarship; to the
Raffles Institution and ob-
tained the best results in the
whole of Malaya in the 1939
Cambridge School Certificate.
He was later to show the same
distinction at Cambridge itself,
gaining a double First in law
and top place on the final
honors-list.
“After the University he read
for the Bar and was called in
1950, immediately before
returning to Singapore, where
he was elected a member of the
the Bar Committee in 1953,
and became leader of the
People’s Action Party on its
foundation in 1954. His
Socialism springs in part from
nine years’ close association
with the Singapore trade-union
movement. In the 1955
general election Mr. Lee was
elected to Tanjong Pagar, a
constituency in the west side of
the island embracing much of
the poorer Chinese area ; he
polled more votes than both
his opponents combined.”
The same: “The P.A.P. pro-
gramme is both anti-Communist
and anti-Colonial. Among its
plans are redistribution of
wealth, educational reorganisa-
tion with the gradual introduc-
tion of the Malay language, the
GLAN WILLIAMS, IN LONDON “NEWS CHRONICLE .”
development of Singapore as
the industrial centre of
Malaya, the encouragement of
foreign capital, the establish-
ment of a common market
between the two territories, and
a vigorous social-welfare pro-
gramme. All of this is directed
at, and for the most part
depends upon, the eventual
union of the two territories.
This it sees as ‘a solution to
unemployment and to the
problem of finding for Singa-
poreans a national identity.’
“But with union at present a
dim prospect, given the atti-
tude of Malaya, Mr. Lee may
well run into trouble. Any
decline in Singapore’s position
as a free port will increase the
island’s social and economic
problefns, making it at the
same time more urgent and
more difficult for the P.A.P.
to deliver the goods it has
promised.”
- * * •
London “Daily Express”:
“This strategic fortress, pro-
duct of the genius of the
British people, is abandoned
to violent and hostile forces.
Its people are delivered into
the hands of tyrants.
“What muddled ideas of
freedom lie behind so perverse
a surrender? The British
Government must accept a
large share of the blame. It
may be late to cry against its
policy towards Singapore. But
it is never too late to learn
the hard, unyielding lesson
from this act of folly. So that
never again will a British
Government desert a million
of the Queen’s citizens. And
leave them to the mercy of
men whose weapon is fear.”
* * *
Derrick Sington, in London
“Spectator ” : “The challenge
of Communism means that the
new rulers have to do some-
thing quickly to redistribute
some of the wealth of a very
inegalitarian society. One step
in this direction is likely to
be Governmental strengthen-
ing and compulsory reorgani-
sation of the trade-unions. This,
though it sounds shockingly
authoritarian, may have the
advantage (not overlooked fry
P.A.P.’s leaders) that Com-
munist infiltration in a key
sector will be taken care of.
“But when it comes to going
very far in egalitarian policies
the P.A.P. are brought up short
by the need to attract capital—*
foreign as well as local —if the
central difficulty of this small
island with its inhabi-
tants is to be overcome. Suc-
cess or failure of the P.A.P. as
a Government depends on
whether it can solve the
problem, common to all Asia,
of population versus produc-
tivity.
“The P.A.P. economic expert
Goh Keng Swee has declared
repeatedly that he welcomes
and will protect foreign capital,
and that loans will be available
for private industrialists from
a development-board with a
fund of £l2 million. But —
conscious of competing with
Communist ideology—he has
also brandished P.A.P.'s
Socialist convictions in a pledge
to ‘channel back’ some of the
£9O million of Singapore money
invested abroad.”
The same: “The idea that
capital and trade may now
flee from Singapore in appre-
hension at P.A.P.’s egalitarian
programme has been fostered
by political opponents, both
Asian and European. It is un-
likely to happen. The few
firms that have moved com-
pletely to neighboring Malaya
have been inconsiderable. Most
business interests have 100
much to lose ; they will await
events. The same applies to
foreign investors. Everything
depends on whether the P.A.P.
can maintain administrative
efficiency and industrial peace.”
* * *
London -“News Chronicle” :
“Its [the P.A.P.’s] leaders have
wasted no time in declaring
that their party is not the ‘hand-
maid of the Communist party.’
The P.A.P.’s general-secretary,
Lee Kuan Yew, has said that
he does not want British troops
to leave the island until union
with Malaya has been achieved
—and he admits that that may
lie 20 years ahead.
“Electoral ambition put a
premium on an extremist and
irresponsible campaign, but


s
The Chairman of Directors of the Colonial Sugar Refining
Company Limited, Sir Edward Knox, in his annual address to
shareholders, said that a moderate increase in the Company's
profit for the year ending 31st March, 1959, was due to
generally satisfactory results from most activities.
Points from the Chairman's speech
Sir Edward reported on the
Company's manufacturing
activities in Australia, New
Zealand and Fiji and said:
The Company’s
Sugar Activities
Mills —Raw Sugar
Production of raw sugar from
the Company’s 12 raw sugar mills
in Queensland, New South Wales
and Fiji reached half a million
tons for the first time in the 1958
season, with record production in
each of the three areas.
Australian mills: The Company
owns 7 of the 34 raw sugar mills
in Australia —3 in N.S.W., 4 in
Queensland.
The estimates for 1959 at our
Company’s Australian mills indicate
a large crop. However, as the
International Sugar Agreement
restrictions on exports continue in
force, it may not be possible to
harvest the whole of the available
cane.
Fiji mills: The Company owns all
the 5 raw sugar mills in Fiji.
Growing conditions for the 1959
crop have been favourable and it
is estimated that the crop is large
d
enough to produce at least 250,000
tons of i;aw sugar.
Refineries —Refined Sugar
Australia: Sales of sugar products
from our five Australian refineries
for the year ended 31st March, 1959,
were 499,000 tons. "
i< -o' s?
i
*»
r
M
i:V
six* .• .:• •:• «#
Sir Edward Knox,
Chairman of the C.S.R. Co.
A new 21b. refined sugar package
was placed on the N.S.W. market
in March.
Bulk liquid refined sugar is being
sold from ail our Australian
refineries except Brisbane, where it
will be produced later this year.
Sales of this line continue to increase
and now represent about 16 per
cent, of all refined sugar sold to
manufacturers in Australia.
Bulk granulated . refined sugar is
now being sold to manufacturers
in Sydney. It will be on sale in
Melbourne shortly and is being
planned for Brisbane.
New Zealand: Sales of sugar
products from our Auckland
refinery for the year ended 31st
March, 1959, were 106,000 tons.
Bulk Raw Sugar
at Refineries
Our refineries in Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Adelaide and Auckland
now receive their raw sugar in bulk.
A new mechanised bulk unloading
plant and a new wharf are under
construction at our Melbourne
refinery.
Building Materials
The value of sales of C.S.R.
building products increased 10 per
cent, compared with the previous
financial year, the increase coming
mainly from new products and
activities. Costs of production have
increased for several of our lines.
Pyneboard: A new company,
Pyneboard Pty. Ltd., in which the
C.S.R. Company has a 60 per cent,
interest, is building a £350,000 fac-
tory at Oberon, in N.S.W., to make
a rigid building and furniture board
from pinewood flakes bonded with
synthetic resin. The factory is
expected to begin production by the
middle of next .year.
Timbrock: A new £2 million
Timbrock hardboard factory . will
be built by the Company at
Bacchus Marsh, in Victoria. It will
be better situated than our Sydney
Timbrock factory to supply Vic-
toria and south-eastern Australia.
The new factory is expected to be
in production early in 1961. Both
the Timbrock and Pyneboard fac-
tories will process waste timber or
forest thinnings for which there is
no other important economic use.
Cane-ite: Our business in Cane-ite
insulating board is steady and we
are working on new products and
uses.
Gyprock: Sales of Gyprock plaster
board have increased considerably.
This board is now accepted by
building authorities and loan
organisations in N.S.W., Canberra
and South Australia, where most of
our sales are made.
Plaster: We now produce building
plaster in all States except Queens-
land and Tasmania, and this busi-
ness is making steady progress.
Floor Tiles: There is a. good
demand for Vinylflex floor and wall
tiles. The range of vinyl tiles
offered is being continually increased
to attract more sales.
Asbestos: Sales of blue asbestos
produced at Wittenoom, Western
Australia, are steadily increasing.
Industrial Chemicals
The business of C.S.R. Chemicals
Pty. Ltd. (60 per cent. C.S.R.) has
continued to make progress during
the past year, partly because of
increased sales of established pro-
ducts and partly because of new
products.
Polystyrene: Production and selling
of Starex 475, a toughen.d poly-
styrene plastic, started last year and
have continued satisfactorily.
Vinyl acetate: The vinyl acetate
plant at Rhodes was started up in
August; 1958. The plant was
designed for expansion to meet
increasing demand, and capacity
has been increased as sales have
risen.
Petro-c hemic als: In January this
year, an announcement was made
of the joint plans of various com-
panies to co-operate in setting up a
group of petro-chemicai factories
adjacent to the Vacuum Oil Com-
pany’s refinery at Altona, near
Melbourne, the total expected
capital expenditure of the group
being about £23 million. C.S.R.
Chemicals Pty. Ltd. and Dow
Chemical International Ltd., S.A.,
have formed a new company,
C-S.R.C.-Dow Pty. Ltd.; 51 per
cent, of the capital is owned by
C.S.R. Chemicals. This new com-
pany will build and operate one
of the factories of the group at
an estimated cost of about £3
million. The C.S.R.C.-Dow factory
will produce styrene monomer, an
important intermediate in the
manufacture of plastics, synthetic
resins and various kinds of latex,
and a principal ingredient in the
manufacture of synthetic rubber
which is to be produced in another
factory of the group.
Cellulose acetate: The bounty on
cellulose acetate flake was recently
extended at the same rate as
before, to apply until 30th June,
1961.
Solvents, plasticizers, acetic acid
and some other chemicals are pro-
duced at the Lane Cove factory.
This part of C.S.R. Chemicals has
been experiencing buoyant business.
Distilleries
The increase in demand for
distillery products has continued.
In particular, manufacturers of
industrial chemicals, plastics and
solvents have increased their
purchases of alcohol.
Ocean Vessels
Our vessels “Tambua” and
“Rona” continue to serve satis-
factorily. “Fiona” has been sold
to overseas buyers.
Other Activities
Rice in Fiji: The Company has
plans in hand to establish a rice
mill and rice marketing organisation
in Fiji. Final arrangements for
marketing have yet to be com-
pleted; if these are successful, a
mill will start operating early in
1960.
New Auckland building: Contracts
have been let for the construction
of a new office building in Fort
Street, Auckland.


there are indications that the
prospect of Ministerial office
and the pressure of economic
realities are having a sobering
effect on the victors of the
polls.”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman”: “The
British bases, the position of
which is covered by the Con-
stitution, are not likely to be
the object of serious political
attack for some time to come.
For one thing, they are much
too valuable as a source of
employment—particularly to
many of the electors of the
P.A.P. For another, they are
regarded as essential to security
by the Government of Malaya,
and for the next few years the
Government of Singapore must
try to overcome the determi-
nation of the Conservative
leaders of the Federation not
to admit Singapore into the
family.
“The fact that one party has
a solid majority as a of
the election is a reason for
satisfaction. Nothing could
breed instability and extremism
more readily than a minority or
coalition Government.”
* * *
“New York Times”: “Mr.
Lee’s reassurance about Com-
munists is not sufficient in the
light of the established fact that
Singapore is one of the most
heavily infiltrated communities
in the world. The Communists
have repeatedly made effective
use of teachers and students
and of trade-unions. They
have kept Singapore in turmoil
for 10 years. If Mr. Lee does
not follow their line they can
make plenty of trouble for him,
too, and he knows it.”
World Refugee Year
TThe “Yorkshire Post” com-
A ments on the opening of
the World Refugee Year
(June 1):
“There are some 40-mitfion
refugees in the world. These
are to be found in India and
Pakistan, exiled by partition ;
in Korea and Hong Kong,
where a million Chinese who
have fled from the mainland
live in cardboard shacks, huts
made of earth and with only
one bowl of rice a day ; in the
Middle East, where a million
Arabs have been exiled now
for 10 years ; and in Europe,
where some 160,000 unsettled
refugees are confined in former
concentration-camps, or crowd
the towns in other people’s
houses, in cellars, in attics and
in barns. All of them long for
what is surely every man’s
right—a home, and the free-
dom and security that home
should mean.
“It is in an effort to end the
refugee problem that World
Refugee Year has been organ-
ised. Eighty member-States of
the United Nations are taking
part in accordance with a
resolution of the General
Assembly, passed in November.
The aims of the Year, as
defined in the resolution, are to
focus interest on the refugee
problem and to encourage
additional opportunities for
permanent refugee solutions.
“In the United Kingdom the
Queen has given her patronage
to the 51 agencies and organisa-
tions associated with the
United Kingdom Committee
for World Refugee Year, and
the vice-patrons are Mr. Mac-
millan, Mr. Gaitskell and Mr.
Jo Grimond ; Lady Elliot, the
life peeress, is president and
chairman of the committee.
Members of the advisory
council include the Foreigu
Secretary, Dame Edith Evans,
leaders of the Church, distin-
guished soldiers, men of letters
and trade-union officials.
“The committee has set it-
self the impressive target of £2
million, towards which the
Government is giving £lOO,OOO.
Voluntary organisations in the
country, who already raise
£500,000 annually, are deter-
mined to double this figure.
But, no matter how successful
the Year is, we must not be
under the illusion that it will
solve the world’s refugee
problem once and for all. The
problem is too vast.
“What the Year will provide
is an unprecedented oppor-
tunity to solve some refugee
problems and to alleviate
others. For example, the
troubles of refugees in camps
and of refugees in the Far East
can be solved completely, while
the needs of refugees outside
camps can certainly be met in
part. New refugees in Greece
can be helped to settle there,
and refugees in Tunisia and
Morocco can be given the
emergency aid they so badly
need. Finally, a contribution
can be made towards a solu-
tion of the vast problem of the
Chinese refugees in Hong
Kong.
“This Year will also enable
the goodwill of the world to
be concentrated upon achieving
positive and useful goals, in
which all can share, even if
they make only a modest con-
tribution. It can bring a new
life to many thousands who
have existed too long on hope
alone.”
THE MOON AND SIXPENCE.
(Cartoonist Vicky’s comment, in London “Evening Standard, ”
on the launching of the World Refugee Year.)
Dressy
"Crom Bradford “Wool
Record”:
“A Polish woman, furious
at not being allowed to buy a
dress displayed in the window
of a shop, has taken the
owners of the business to court
—and won. For this to happen
behind the Iron Curtain is
phenomenal, because the owner
of the shop there is invari-
ably the State. And to criti-
cise the State tends to be
considered treason. It is little
wonder, then, that plucky
woman is now the heroine of
the hour in Poland.
“She had been told originally
that there were no dresses in
stock of the type displayed,
and it was at this point that
she demanded the one on dis-
play. She was curtly informed
that to allow her to have this
would be against Ministerial
regulations.
“At this impasse a mere man
might have made a quick re-
treat ; but the lady concerned
said that to display an article
was to offer it for sale. It is
noteworthy that a similar case
brought before an English
court would probably fail, it
being generally held that no
contract exists until the seller
has agreed to sell and the
buyer to buy.”
Games for Tokyo
HPhe “Manchester Guardian”
reflects editorially on the
International Olympic Com-
mittee’s decision to allocate
the 1964 Games to Tokyo:
“Japan has long been a
stout supporter of the Olympic
movement and has produced
some notable champions, par-
ticularly in athletics and
swimming. She has been the
leader of Asia in popularising
sport, already has many fine
stadia in Tokyo, and recently
had the valuable experience of
organising the Asian Games.
“Too often a city’s organis-
ing committee has little or no
experience of the problems of
a huge, many-sided interna-
tional sports occasion before
the biggest task of all falls
upon it. The Japanese made a
number of serious mistakes
over the Asian Games, but we
can be confident that they will
not be repeated.
“The award is recognition,
however, not only of the part
Japan has already played in
the Games, but also of the


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
osumvAN
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :.\ PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
steadily growing part Asia is
taking as a whole. Vast
countries like India and
China had no nation-wide
sports-facilities and organisa-
tions long after these were
commonplace in Europe, North
America and Australia, and
even now they have many
years’ work to do before every
schoolchild has a chance to
play the popular international
games.
“But they have taken big
strides forward since the war,
and these first Asian Olympic
Games will give them much
encouragement. Each of the
five rings on the Olympic
emblem and flag represents a
continent, and after 1964 only
one of them —Africa —will
still be without its first Games.
“Africa must wait awhile,
for few would accept a South
African city as host while
sports apartheid is still prac-
tised in the Union, and her
other countries are still young
in sport. But Nigeria, Ghana
and Kenya are now regular
Olympic competitors, and it
will not be all that long before
the turn of one of them comes,
probably after South America
has had her turn first.”
Soviet Writers
As seen by the “Manchester
Guardian,” the latest con-
gress of the Soviet Writers’
Union “brought only mitigated
comfort for those who would
like more freedom for Russian
literature”:
“True, Mr. Khrushchev, in
what was apparently one of the
most effective of his recent
speeches, called upon writers
to decide for themselves what
should be published ; he went
so far as to say that Dudintsev
had never been hostile to the
Soviet regime, and he asked
the writers to help their fallen
comrades to rise to higher
things.
“But he continued to empha-
sise the necessity of suppress-
ing ‘unjust’ writing and recom-
mended the continuance of the
peculiarly unpleasing form of
critical lynch-law by which, in
group discussions, the less
original Soviet writers have
been able to get their own
back on their more talented
and critical fellows.
“The attacks delivered by
Mr. Surkov on Pasternak may
have been made in obedience
to the dictates of a bureau-
cratic Communist conscience,
but what writer will fail to
see in them the envy of an
inferior talent when faced with
—New York “Herald Tribune .”
"OH, NO—NOT THAT OLD TRICK AGAIN!”
greatness? It is hard to
imagine, say, Mr. Graham
Greene being expelled from
the P.E.N. Club for attacks on
her Majesty’s Intelligence Ser-
vice, but if this were to happen
it would not be at all hard to
guess the kind of literary poli-
tician who would take the lead.
A main criticism of the Soviet
way of organising literature is
that it permits the triumph of
the mean and the petty over
the great and the generous.”
Edward Crankshaw, in Lon-
don “Observer,” notes that the
“massive reassertion of party
control over the writers, sym-
bolised by Mr. Khrushchev’s
presence at the opening session
of the congress, has tended to
make Western observers think
that nothing has changed since
Stalin, and that after all the
excitements of the ‘thaw’ the
arts in the Soviet Union are
back where they were.” He
regards this as “an erroneous
conclusion”:
“To begin with, under Stalin
and Zhdanov the writers (the
painters and musicians, too)
were simply ordered about
without a thought. Now they
are being wooed.
“Mr. Khrushchev and prac-
tically the entire Presidium of
the Central Committee did not
turn-up in the Great Hall of
the Kremlin simply to show
that they had won their
struggle with recalcitrant ele-
ments. They turned-up to
honor the writers, to show their
realisation of the supreme
importance of the intelligentsia,
and to celebrate, in effect, a
‘reconciliation’ between
authority and the intelligentsia
after rather a stormy passage.”
Elsewhere in the same
article Crankshaw stresses that
he doesn’t want to “suggest
that there has been no tighten-
ing of party control since
1957 ; there has been a great
deal. But the situation is still
infinitely removed from that
situation under Stalin. The
writers have been disciplined,
but gently, and told that
although they have the run of
a great deal of the country, cer-
tain particularly tempting
fields are strictly out of bounds.
“Meanwhile, especially in
the obscurer magazines, much
interesting stuff is being
written. Meanwhile, also, the
Establishment itself is slowly
changing.”
London “Economist”
observes that “all the doubts
left [by the congress] in the
Russian mind in spite of all
Mr. Khrushchev’s pleading
were summarised in advance
by a Soviet author:
“Writing on the eve of the
congress in ‘Literaturnaya
Gaz e t a,’ Mr. Paustovsky
bluntly described the mass of
Soviet books in which the pro-
portion of bright and dark
colors is carefully mixed so
that the bright should prevail;
he thanked fate that Tolstoy
had written Anna Karenina
before the emergence of this
convention. He even asked at
one stage ‘whether we are not
talking so much and so loudly
about truth because we are
lacking in it?’; and damned
the writers ‘who are playing
with truth guided by motives
that have nothing to do with
literature.’
“The dilemma persists. If
he wants masterpieces, Mr.
Khrushchev cannot keep
writers on a leash. His sooth-
ing words at the congress will
probably be taken as a new
sign of relaxation. Even the
replacement of Mr. Surkov,
who was chairman of the
Writers’ Union at the time of
the squeeze, by the less com-
mitted Mr. Fedin, will be inter-
preted in the same way. But
if they write more freely, the
writers are bound to cause new;
scandals. In one of his many
metaphors Mr. Khrushchev
referred to them as the Soviet
Union’s artillery. As the Soviet
infantry surges forward, Mr.
Khrushchev will have new;
troubles with his gunners.”


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
ST KUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. O. S. PETTERSEN, Manager,
liranches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
sit in dumb silence when Olive
tells Roo that Barney has come
home “full.” When they see
Barney stagger in, drunk, they
may be heard to say, muster-
ing-up the full glory of their
own quaint idiom: “How ’bout
that? The guy’s an alcoholic.”
T awler didn’t realise how
disappointed Americans
would be to hear pure Aus-
tralian accents. After all, one
might say, the theatre is a
place for entertainment, not
for the correcting of long-
held beliefs. The Canadian
production I saw features an
Australian, Max Helpmann,
of Sydney, as Roo. The lady
sitting beside me, discovering
this while checking through
her programme during an inter-
mission, expressed something
like incredulity. Quite baffled,
she said to her friend: “But
Barney has more of an Aus-
tralian accent than Roo does.”
She was referring to a voice
which, like all the others in
the cast, was a painful mix-
ture of stage-Cockney and
Brooklynese.
While in London, Lawler
feared this would happen if
he allowed American actors to
do the play in New York.
While his insistence that his
own Australian group must
present the play in New York
was admirable stubbornness in
a desire for it meant
a box-office flop on Broadway.
Had it been adapted, re-
organised, reconditioned and
presented in America by
Americans, for Americans,
it might still be running
there, for it is a good
play. But Americans will only
pay to see what they expect
to see. Of course, bearing this
in mind, there can be no doubt
that the film will be a success.
'T'he editor of the Montreal
“Star,” who flew to New
York especially to review the
Lawler production in January,
1958, impartially stated the
reason why the play failed
there. He placed no blame on
the critics, that Deadly Half-
dozen who can blight a show
at birth or keep it running for
years: “For me it was a
chilling experience, witnessing
the failure of communication
in theatre terms. Obviously
‘Summer of the 17th Doll’
was not getting across, and
the polite Americans didn’t
know what it was all about.”
“Splendid headline—so the cat died!"
This is understandable. One
American pointed out that
Roo’s reluctance to take a job
in a paint-factory would baffle
the average American, because
in American terms a cane-
cutter is at the very bottom
economically and socially,
while a man in a paint-factory
is several notches above him.
It would seem that the
present-day American will not
make the necessary adjustment
of imagination and sympathy
needed to appreciate a play as
foreign as this. But the
Canadian still can.
“The Doll” was the high-
light of the current season in
Toronto. A certain Common-
wealth kinship undoubtedly
helped. As in London, the
audiences, even if sometimes
shocked, were warmly recep-
tive to this novel Common-
wealth .situation. (Maybe this
was helped in Canada, also,
by the unintentionally amus-
ing scene wherein Barney
warns Roo of the horrors of
the Melbourne “winter.” Out-
side the Toronto theatre the
temperature may have been
close to zero.)
Two clever pieces of stage-
directing will illustrate the
appeal to Canadian awe and,
on the other hand, unexpected
delight.
When Roo first attacks
Barney, the Canadian director
(George McCowan) has him
give the “Australian hand-
shake.” Roo smashes a beer-
bottle savagely on the mantel-
piece and attempts to stab
Barney in the stomach with
the jagged “business end” of
the bottle still in his grasp.
This is an electrifying scene,
more terrifying than Lawler
intended. When things have
calmed-down, the Canadian
audience is treated to a spec-
tacle long forgotten by most,
and completely new to younger
theatregoers: Roo sits down
and actually rolls a fag, by
hand, with the makings. This
was nostalgic delight.
/Ane Toronto newspaper gaily
stated that the Canadian
production far surpassed the
“original Australian version.”
Having seen both companies,
I cannot agree with this
opinion. But, for North
American audiences, the Cana-
dian production was far more
“suitable.” The world is not
yet ready to take Australians
as they really are. Slight adap-
tations must be made until such
time as the rest of the world
becomes truly conscious of the
worth of Australian theatre.
What, then, of the future of
Australian drama abroad?
The New York critics agree
that “Australia’s home-grown
theatre” (Lawler’s group) is
thoroughly professional in its
acting-standards. While little
trouble would be encountered
in London with Australian
plays acted by Australians, the
picture is quite different in
North America.
The Glasgow monthly
“Scottish Field” stated that
“The Doll” is “worth a whole
streetcar of hot-tin roof cats
from any Williams glass
menagerie.” The play has done
its bit in Britain to destroy
the prevalent idea that “Aus-
tralia is a low-class country
inhabited by low-class people
living "unimportant lives in
violent conditions.” But a
popular American humorous
postcard, entitled the “Geo-
graphic Ages of Woman,”
states at the tail-end that after
55 a woman is like Australia
—“everyone knows where it is,
but nobody goes there.”
(America claims the 35-to-45
group, classed as “streamlined,
efficient and co-operative.”)
'T'his rather weird view of the
■*- forgotten continent cer-
tainly doesn’t belong only in
America. However, Homer
Q. Bolenxsiawicz, from St.
Petersburg (Fla.), knows we
have tennis, Botany wool and
Maoris (!), but it will be a
great many years before he
decides which of the two
Kramers (Jack or Stanley)
actually runs that desert
“down under.”
The solution lies in Australia
reaching, in original drama,
literature, music and art, the
same outstanding world reputa-
tion of its performers—its
singers, dancers, actors and
musicians.
In Canada “The Doll” is
called “The first Common-
wealth success in drama.” This
is a fine start. I doubt if it
would have been possible 30
years ago. However, before
we can really expect the rest
of the world to share seriously
with us in our original crea-
tions we have an enormous
task of prestige - building
abroad. Our soldiers and
sportsmen already enjoy this
admiration. The rest of the
job may be long and slow, but
should not be difficult.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,'
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
r« • t 9 •••••••• t •••••••• • • • • • •'•]
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques ,
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to "The Bulletin" or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
When Rashida realised that,
she raised her head and made
me raise mine. High, high in
the blue was the Maharajah,
a speck, a tiny thing moving
towards his hill.
Rashida went round to the
other side of the rock and
then called me to her.
“Look!”
Tt was the singing-kite. Its
tail was caught in a bush.
It was moving in the wind
bumping up and down. The
sticks were broken. The
orange face was slashed to
pieces, but the bamboo-reed,
the voice, the singer, the kite’s
own self, was safe.
Ama scolded us at home.
“You are not to go near any
of those wild creatures.”
But Father smiled.
“Rashida is happy,” he said.
“We can make her Australian
kite sing.”
Ama was holding the kite,
looking at its torn paper.
“This is what he could have
done to you. He must have
thought it was a live thing.”
“But he didn’t hurt us,”
said Rashida. “And he showed
me where the kite was.”
“He is a good Maharajah,”
said Lai.
Ama looked at him and
then at all of us. “You will
not go near him again,” she
said.
Outside, in the yard,
Rashida said, “The High
Maharajah of the Sky has
given me my song, and I will
thank him.” She salaamed
very solemnly towards the
third hill and, after a moment
when I almost laughed, so
did Lai. And so did I.
Bull’s-Eye
By C. W. MAPP (Jnr.)
The boot struck the fence
fully a yard from the
caterwauling tomcat;
he sprang stiff-legged
into the air and landed on the
spot he had taken-off from.
His amorous ode during this
interruption altered to a harsh
hissing.
Regaining his composure,
Sam stealthily descended from
his perch on top of the fence
and inspected the large boot.
“Thank goodness your father's insured. Here's
that early bird.”
Sam was no ordinary cat.
His mother, a pure Persian,
had mated outside her class ;
his father was a battle-scarred,
large - footed, long - legged
warrior called Midnight. Sam
was feared and respected by all
the cats of the district; and
when many a dog rushed at
him, head down, fangs bared,
growling deep, Sam, instead of
seeking the sanctuary of a tree
or roof-top, would arch his
back, puff up his fur, and shoot
a couple of snake-quick jabs
from his unsheathed talons.
The dog, yelping with pain,
would depart with its tail
between its legs and crouch
whimpering for comfort at its
master’s side.
Sam made a thorough exami-
nation of the boot, sniffing all
about it, satisfied himself that
it was dead and no good to eat,
lifted it by its lace, and with
a muffled goodnight to his
mistress faded into the
shadows.
The further Sam went the
heavier his burden became,
until on reaching the pond’s
edge it dragged along the
ground. What Sam had in
mind as he waded into the
shallow water will never be
known. Had he conceived the
idea that water would remove
the man-scent, or was he, out
of pure spite, getting even?
Reaching the middle of the
pond he dropped the boot and
hastily retraced his steps.
At the pond's edge he paused
to shake the water from his
dripping coat. Sam had his
pride, and before rejoining his
girl-friend he 'stretched be-
neath an elm and began
methodically to put his muddy
paws and bedraggled coat in
order. Giving his whiskers a
final brush, and satisfied that
he was presentable, he padded
off to resume his serenading.
A/Ceanwhile the owner of the
boot, exasperated and ex-
hausted with futile efforts at
sleep, was resolving that, come
morning, he would tell the
R.S.P.C.A. about the cat-
menace.
“Meowrroaaark . . .!”
Joe was fully awake and
sitting bolt-upright in bed as
the caterwauling resumed. A
red haze clouded Joe’s brain ;
he fumbled for his remaining
boot beneath the bed and,
taking no particular trouble to
aim, hurled it in the direction
of the disturbance.
His hasty shot was rewarded
by a shrill shriek of pain and
the scampering of padded feet.
Joe returned to bed and slept
the sound sleep of success.
In the morning, rubbing the
sleep from his eyes, Joe
recalled the events of the
previous night, donned his
gown and slippers, and went
outside to retrieve his boots.
Search as he would, he could
locate only one, and that
splattered with blood-spots.
“Damnation to all cats!” he
muttered from the depths of
an early-morning liver.
He was sitting at breakfast
in a pair of sandshoes when
his wife handed him a blood-
splotched note with his.coffee:
Mrs. Symonds—settle milk-
account tomorrow, l won’t be
calling in future—too damn’
dangerous with boots flying
about. The milk-oh.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Neglected Properties
Landlords who let their pro-
perties fall into disrepair are
not always prompted by the
hope’ that a closing-order, by
enabling them to get rid of
tenants, will ensure a high
sale-price for the land (B.
6/5/’59). Only in select resi-
dential areas, or where there is
keen demand for land for com-
mercial or industrial purposes,
would such conduct be worth
while.
Most landlords who neglect
renovations do so because their
rents are too low to justify the
expenditure. The recent V.-G.
policy of making assessments
close to the real value of a
property has aggravated the
situation. Where there is no
reduction in rating-charges to
correspond with increases in
valuation an owner's return
from tenanted property has
sometimes been cut to prac-
tically nothing.
For example, in the 1930's a
Sydney resident inherited two
shop-properties in a country
town. One was an old family-
business premises with resi-
dence attached ; the other was
divided into two lock-up shops,
both let. The new owner let
the residential shop as well.
Even in those days rates
absorbed about a third of the
gross return —the frontage was
wide, and, as the estate was not
in the main shopping-street,
under the conditions of the
time tenants could only be got
by charging moderate rents.
By the early 1950’5, through
rents being pegged at the 1939
level and rates having increased,
the owner’s net return had
fallen to £37. He applied to
the Rent Controller for an
increase to cover rate-rises since
1939. This was granted after
some months’ delay, but the
effect was only temporary. A
fresh valuation, unaccom-
panied by a rate-reduction, had
cut the net return within two
years to £45.
Eventually the council issued
a closing - order, and the
tenants had to seek other
When the estate was
put up to auction no bid
reached the modest reserve-
price. One bidder, who wanted
to establish a business there,
was, however, prepared to pay
it.
The landlord spent no
money on renovations in
the last decade of his owner-
ship. It would have been
sheer foolishness to keep the
properties in good order when
the income from them was so
low. In view of the heavy rate-
burden and the prospect of
further upward periodical
valuations, the site could only
have been made profitable if
used as the buyer used it, or if
the landlord had been able to
exploit it more intensively,
which would have meant de-
molishing the existing build-
ings. Terry the Tory
(N.S.W.).
Pension Reviews
No doubt the Social Services
and Repatriation Departments
are flat-out coping with their
big jobs, but I can't help think-
ing that they make unnecessary
work for themselves —and, in
particular, the pensioners.
Take the case of old soldiers
drawing service-pensions. Every
i
year they’re confronted with
the task of filling-up Form
5.P.3, a formidable document
of four foolscap pages contain-
ing 27 questions and a declara-
tion to be signed before a J.P
or other competent witness
such as the postmaster. Should
the pensioner be married,
another of those forms has to
be completed by his wife.
Surely this annual bugbear
—-for that's what it is to very
old people—is quite unneces-
sary? Another form, 5.P.15,
has to be completed when the
pension is granted, and in it
the recipient undertakes to in-
form the commissioner of any
change in his or her financial
position which would affect the
rate of pension payable. This
undertaking is also* the subject
of a declaration before a J.P.
or other competent witness.
I take the view that most
persons are honest, and since
the department is armed with
the pensioner’s promise to
notify any change in financial
position, I fail to see what’s
gained by sending out the other
form (5.P.3) every 12 months
or so. The amount of work in-
volved in sending them out
and checking them when
received must be very great.
Of course, it’s recognised
that files are the breath of life
to most Government depart-
ments, and in the Repatriation
Department, at any rate, they
must be as high as the Great
Pyramid. But even at the risk
of depriving the department
of that breath of life, 1 think
the old people should be
spared that annual worry—
they have enough without it.—
Beechy Bill (Vic.).
Fiji Commission /•
An event of great importance
to Fiji in the near future will
be the arrival of Sir Alan
Burns and his assistants to
Things are crook. Before you know where you
are these days, you're in the soup."
conduct the Commission of
Inquiry set-up by the British
Colonial Office to investigate
land and population problems.
Surprisingly, little interest is
being shown in it so far, and
although anyone with ideas or
information to put to the com-
mission has been invited to do
so, response has been poor.
The recent census has shown
that the population by a.d. 2000
will be about 1,700,000 at the
present rate of increase, and
not 1,000,000 as previously
thought. Two-thirds of these
will be Indians, and there will
be even less land per person
than was expected.
One of the most important
issues before the Burns corn-
mission will be the land ques-
tion. Although Fiji ceded un-
conditionally to Britain, and
lands that had not been sold
to settlers or that were needed
for the Fijians themselves were
vested in the Crown, it has
alwavs been understood that
these lands will be kept for the
Fijians. At the time of cession
there were no Indians in Fiji,
One wonders how long this
policy can be kept up.
Generally speaking, the
Indians in Fiji are unpopular
both with Fijians and Euro-
peans. Much as the Indians
complain of color-prejudice,
they are not a friendly or like-
able people themselves. Even
so, when they can make more
money by it they are most
industrious,
Fiji enjoys better medical,
educational and other facilities
than could reasonably be
expected. Much of the money'
is granted by Britain, but a
lot is raised in the colony.
An important source of
° v ? rs f as rev =™ e is the
industry, and there would be
no sugar-industry without the
Indians. The Fij ans could not
be persuaded to work on the
sugar-plantations in earlier
days, and they will still not
work harder than they need.
As long as the Fijian is reason-
ably fed and clothed, he sees
no need to work for more.
Also, he has customs which,
though generous, are no in-
centive to work for more than
he needs —his friends and
relations would soon have the
surplus off him.
The tourist-industry is im-
portant to Fiji, yet a good part
of tourist-money goes into the
Indian tailors’ and jewellers’
shops. The Indians own most
of the shops and sell cheap
goods and clothing to the ad-
vantage of the population.


They run the bus- and taxi-
services. They are the most
responsible members of the
staffs of hotels, hospitals, etc.
In fact, although the Fijians
are a most likeable people,
they live mostly in their
villages, and it is the Indians
who are providing essential
labor.
The Indians, apart from
their rapid increase, have the
necessary qualities for survival.
The Fijians, on the other hand,
only live and increase as they
do because they are looked
after by a European Govern-
ment. They begged for cession,
and only British protection
saved them from being overrun.
The question is: How long
can more land and more say in
the Government be denied the
rapidly increasing Indian
majority? M. T. Pezet
(Fiji).
Errors by Novelists
The agent, of a London pub-
lisher handed me the MS. of
a novel about Australia and
asked me to check its bush
background for errors befoie
he sent it to his head-office. I
found 38 errors —all of which
would be apparent to any
bright 14-year-old from the
bush.
Some people claim that
errors of this type don’t matter.
What if G. B. Lancaster, in
Pageant, does have foxes bark-
ing at night in Tasmania—a
place which is free from this
introduced pest —or describes
a boy picking-up spent cart-
ridge-cases after a battle with
bushrangers in a period when
all firearms were muzzle-
loaders?
Such errors matter because
more fallacies exist overseas
about Australia than about any
other country.
Adam Lindsay Gordon
described Australia as a place
where “bright blossoms are
scentless, and songless bright
birds.” He has been dead for
some 80 years, yet thousands of
people in other countries —and
quite a number here still
think this description is correct.
In Paving the Way, Simp-
son Newland has the South
Australian Commissioner of
Police confessing that he
selected two aborigines for
execution as a punishment for
the massacre of 27 European
men, women and children “be-
cause they were the worst-look-
ing of the lot.” A footnote in
the book claims this to be a
fact. But the papers of that
court-martial are still in
existence, witnessed by several
reputable citizens, and they
state that the tribe gave-up the
two men as ringleaders.
Further, when this tribe no
longer had any fear of addi-
tional reprisals for the massacre,
its members stated emphatically
that those two men had each
murdered a number of the
castaways. But today Com-
munists and their stooges are
quoting that case as an example
of white injustice to aborigines,
with the novel as their
authority.
Dozens of similar cases
could be quoted. Today, with
a boom overseas in novels
with an Australian setting, it is
imperative for our authors to
be accurate in historical and
background data.
For some errors there is no
excuse. Every public library
now has a set of the new edi-
tion of the Australian Encyclo-
pedia and other reference-
works. But even when a care-
ful check has been made, some
errors are liable to remain.
One best-selling sea-yarn,
written by a master-mariner,
has the new moon rising in the
east at dusk!
Such errors are due to what
the Americans call “script-
blindness.” The author is
unable to see faults in his own
work, yet they leap to the eye
of the outsider with a little
general knowledge. The cure
is for a novelist to have his
MS. read by a competent
critic before it goes to a pub-
lisher.
Some of our writers do take
great care to get their back-
grounds right. The thrillers of
Arthur Upfield, for example,
always describe the outback
correctly. The recently pub-
lished February Dark, by Anne
von Bertouch, is another
object-lesson in accuracy of
background.
It must be said, however,
that there is now a welcome
tendency for our novelists to
portray Australians as normal
human-beings chosen from a
typical cross-section, instead of
concentrating almost entirely
on misfits, morons, crooks, no-
hopers and those with fowl-
yard morals. For this we should
be thankful. — H. A. Lindsay
(S.A.).
Wild-life Magazine
Earlier ' pleas in these
columns for a wild-life maga-
zine were not in vain. We now
have “Wild Life Service,” pub-
lished by the Fauna Protec-
tion Panel, N.S.W., to replace
the “Quarterly Bulletin,” a
duplicated news-sheet started
by Frank Griffiths, when Chief
Guardian of Fauna, to keep
Faith in the
Future
A constructional masterpiece of our time will
be commissioned to the world when Queen
Elizabeth and President Eisenhower open the St.
Lawrence Seaway next Friday.
In the United States and Canada last year I
saw this monument to two nations’ faith in
themselves and in one another.
For five years Canadians and Americans had
been applying brains and skills to the linking of
the Great Lakes with the Atlantic Ocean. The
finest of modern machinery was in their hands.
They worked through nights and days.
Now a great system of canals and locks was
to be seen from the St. Lawrence to Lake Ontario,
and -on into Erie, Huron, Michigan and Superior.
And to sense the distance of it all, we need only
reflect that the western tip of Lake Superior is
close enough to halfway across the North
continent.
They had opened the difficult way in from
Montreal to Lake Ontario; had by-passed the angry
rapids in the region of Niagara Falls to make the
inlet to Lake Erie.
The great city of Chicago, with its cluster of
industrial might at the edge of Lake Michigan, was
seven hundred miles by air—more by land transport
—from the nearest point on the Atlantic. Now, like
Detroit and other big centres of American and
Canadian industry, it was to become a direct
seaport of major call.
Australians can look admiringly on this
grand achievement.
While we in this country have no huge inland
lakes to loose in traffic to the sea, the St. Lawrence
Seaway nevertheless points us a lesson—apart
altogether from its magnitude and the spirit of bold
enterprise that inspired it.
This sprang from a co-operative partnership.
Borders did not count when it came to the mutual
performance. Equally, in Australia, the lines
between States need never divide us in any
undertaking for the advancement of the country
as a whole.
It is a big approach to national development
now, that will reward us most handsomely in the
expansive years ahead.
H. Hastings Deering


honorary rangers informed on
wild-life matters.
Delayed by the move of the
N.S.W. Government Printer
to new and larger premises, the
first issue, dated March, 1959,
came out in May—2o pages,
well produced, well illustrated
and with a wide coverage of
conservation subjects.
“A Message from the
Minister” is featured, in which
Chief Secretary C. A. Kelly
says: “It is hoped to increase
the size of issue and to put it
into the hands of a more varied
public. In this way the work,
aspirations and achievements
of the Fauna Protection Panel
will become more widely
knowm and appreciated....
and our sons and daughters
may see for themselves with-
out having to listen to stories
of species long extinct.”
I agree with Max Childs (B.
6/ 5 / ’59) we do need an
authoritative, educational
medium, but —vide the Herald
and Weekly Times effort —such
a publication won’t pay until
the Australian becomes more
conservation-conscious. We
have “Australian Wild Life,”
issued annually, but this is
written not so much from the
reader-appeal point of view as
that of recording the activities
and aspirations of the Wild
Life Preservation Society of
Australia, which, as its name
implies, has for 50 years been
the main defender of our
unique fauna and flora.
I can see great possibilities
in “Wild Life Service.” Allen
"I've got the answer to those premature explosions !”
Strom, the present Chief
Guardian of Fauna, N.S.W.,
has a flair for the clear pre-
sentation of pertinent material,
so we can expect a steady
development in this new addi-
tion to our scant supply of
conservation literature. — Arbre
(N.S.W.).
Industrial Accidents
There’s an increasing weight
of opinion against “C.W.P. s'’
statement (B. 6/5/’59) that
industrial accidents are “at
root nobody’s fault,” but are
simply the result of fallible
humans dealing with machines.
Obviously humans are
fallible, but the rate of indus-
trial accidents can be appreci-
ably reduced by sound train-
ing, commonsense and care.
One example is provided by
General Motors - Holden’s,
Ltd., who have an enviable
safety-record with a large
work-force in an industry
where danger and injury are
by no means uncommon.
Another major firm —a chemi-
cal-manufacturer —has reduced
its accident-rate to a negligible
figure, and a large oil-refinery
boasts 950,000 man-hours
worked without one disabling
injury.
U.S. statistics indicate that
only 20 per cent, of industrial
accidents are caused by inade-
quate mechanical safeguards,
the rest being due to insuffi-
cient training of employees in
the hazards of their work, or
indifference to such hazards.
This seems to be the crux
of the problem: apathy by
both employers and employees;
failure to think and act in
terms of safety.
Most recognised safety-
officers agree that any worth-
while safety-programme must
start with the boss and go all
the way down the ladder.
Passively abiding by legisla-
tion, sticking a few notices on
walls or installing a first-aid
station are merely a begin-
ning.
Some time ago in Victoria
a Government Select Commit-
tee investigated industrial
accidents. It recommended
that the job be tackled on a
nation-wide basis by creating
State centres to publicise the
need for organised accident-
prevention, moulding manage-
ment and labor closely to this
objective. It also stressed the
importance of industrial-
safety education in secondary
and technical schools and uni-
versities, State inspection to
police safety-legislation, and
the need for co-operation from
manufacturers and distributors
of machinery in conforming
with safe operating.
Today there’s little doubt
that industrial accidents are a
solid social problem demand-
ing imaginative thinking and
vigorous action. The Safety
Engineering Society of Victoria
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 544
Across
I—Sauce1 —Sauce vessel in the air. (7)
4 —Offensive-looking phone-call by General Grant's adver-
sary. (7)
B—Palpitating broth spoilt by a crooner. (9)
10- —Let off a place to take the waters about. (5)
11— Nonsense! One turned it on in circulating sequence. (8)
14 —Lays he composed for a senator in Chifley’s Cabinet. (6)
15—An investor’s trick to study
dancing. (8)
17 — East is shortly to joke against a
Melbourne newspaper retinue. (8)
18— Fifty-one in meat as part of a
creed. (6)
20 —A bowl of French servant’s
uniform. (8)
23 — Crook in Virginia takes six all
back in the dwelling. (5)
24 Grand lass hiding in pasture. (9)
25 — Speakeasy inquiry as to whether
the woman has put in an appear-
ance earlier. (7)
26 — Australian tennis-player swal-
lowing the firebrand boss with a
fever. (7)
Down
1 — The cat deserts Morpheus sea-
birds. (10)
2 Our thought is corrupt all the
way along. (10)
3 Paul Robeson’s monogram isn’t
altered in art reproductions. (6)
4 Limb on one turned it on an
oversea minister's address. (8)
5 -Good to look at East as the
distant you, and no contradic-
tion. (4. 2,3, 4)
6 Yours Truly hurried into the
country. (4)
7 —A Scot with a leg broken. (4)
9 —An opening batsman’s glance is
taking a considerable time,
according to the human stud-
book. (6, 7)
12 — Cow in a boy and a girl and
the Maori. (10)
13 — Damned study started. (10)
16 —The Governor-General batting
with dash in the middle and
urging along the total. (6, 2)
19 —A new serving of old ingredients
has her mixed up. (6)
21— Save injured birds. (4)
22 — Feel differently, so go for your
life! (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 543.


calculates the bill at £l6l
million annually to the Com-
monwealth —equivalent to £l6
million a year pay-out for
every man, woman and child.
The society says' that man-
power at present lost to
industry each year equals the
time worked by 27,188 men in
a full 12 months, and that the
annual deathrate is between
500 and 600, while 2657 suffer
permanent disability such as
the loss of an arm or an eye.
Some 261,424 of the coun-
try’s work-force are injured
badly enough to be out of
action for at least one com-
plete shift.
Accident-records in industry
are seldom complete and often
inaccurate, but the society’s
estimates have been widely,
accepted by Federal and State
Government agencies and
union bodies. If anything,
they are held to be conserva-
tive !
No doubt there are discrep-
ancies in compensation from
court and workers’-compensa-
tionr sources, as “C.W.P.” says,
but it seems that if more atten-
tion was given to prevention
of accidents much less com-
pensation would be needed. •
Xavier (Vic.).
Crisis in Education
Whilst agreeing with “Sir's”
prediction of a crisis in educa-
tion in 1960 (B. 10/6/’59), I
think some of his figures aren t
quite accurate.
The Wyndham " Report
estimated a net increase of
17,000 pupils in N.S.W.
secondary schools in 1960. So
the increase for all Australian
secondary schools will be
nearer 30,000 than ‘ Sir s
estimate of 20,000.
My figures naturally include
estimates for private schools.
They are at present educating
about 350,000 primary pupils
and about 120,000 secondary
pupils, which gives us a total
of 470,000 —somewhat less
than half of ‘ Sir’s” “million
youngsters.”
Nevertheless, his trembling
at the prospect of the private-
school system collapsing has
some basis. About 86 per cent,
of the private schools’ primary
pupils and 62 per cent, of their
secondary pupils attend R.C.
schools.
Last year's “Current Affairs
Bulletin” on “The Catholic
School in Australia” drew
attention to the financial
problems, teacher - shortages
and mounting enrolments of
the R.C. education-system. It
would seem that unless some-
thing is done to assist financi-
ally in the very near future,
the State secondary schools
will have an overflow from
the R.C. schools to add to
their many problems. — Cab
(N.S.W.).
French Without Tears
“Ardoyne’s” lament (B.
3/6/’59) about the “new”
method of teaching French in
the school at which his son is,
or was, being conditioned as
an Intermediate French
examinee is understandable
from one point of view ; but
let’s have a look at the other
side.
In France (1914-18), after six
years’ orthodox study of
French, I found myself, like
most of my public-school con-
temporaries, speechless among
the natives of that country.
"I'm sick of the South Pole. Let's try the North."
The same state of affairs
existed right through the
British Army, from Douglas
Haig at the summit to the most
junior subaltern —fresh from
Eton, or where-have-you.
Indeed, what went wrong on
the Somme, and elsewhere,
might well have been worse
were it not for the presence
at British G.H.Q. of expert
interpreters, for the fact was
that British senior and junior
officers, though they might
have been able to tell you the
third-person singular of the
pluperfect indicative of avoir,
knew little or nothing of what
made the language tick, or
click, when it came to adding
one word to another in an
intelligible conversation.
Back at school I had
observed that the only boys
fluent in French were grammar-
less new boys fresh from the
clutches of an able-bodied
mam’selle who had insisted on
her charges speaking French
from the start —without benefit
of grammar. Thus they learnt
to rattle it off like mam’selle
by picking-up the language
from her directly ; just as we
all learned how to speak
English in childhood before
anyone ever threatened our
peace of mind with a grammar-
book.
It is, incidentally, in the very
same way that Pope John
XXIII, aged 77, expects to be
fluent in English within 12
months, though he has mighty
little time to spend on picking-
up what is to him an entirely
new language.
The real guinea-pigs are the
pupils who have been
grammar-bound in French ever
since French became a school
subject and, for them, ceased
to be a living language. Pro-
gressive English schools have
lately woken-up to this fact,
and in another 25 years or so
we shall have woken-up here,
too —I hope. Meantime I am
glad to hear of at least one
schoolmaster in this country
who has had the guts to put
the direct method into practice.
—Sir (Q.).
C.P.S. Insurance
Before the Commonwealth
Public Service Superannuation
Fund was introduced perman-
ent employees were obliged to
take out a certain amount of
insurance, the policies being
held by the various depart-
ments against any serious mis-
demeanor by the employee
concerned.
When the superannuation
scheme was introduced in
1923-24 all insurance-policies
were handed back to em-
ployees. With a watertight
fund still in operation, many
Federal public servants would
like the opportunity of borrow-
ing finance against home-
building, etc., but it appears
that the millions of pounds
handled by this Federal de-
partment are not available for
such a purpose. — Central
(N.S.W.).
Arbitrary Taxation
“Stromlo” (B. 6/ 5/’59) asks
how many taxpayers “have
accepted improper depart-
mental rulings.” The answer
would be thousands.
My two sons, both over 21,
went overseas —one to study
the latest self-service retail
methods ; the other, a doctor,
to continue his medical studies.
Expenses, £3OOO each. Both
claimed a tax-deduction of only
£750.
First son is now in business
utilising self-service methods
learnt overseas; the other is
lecturing in medical research.
The latter, if he had only
known, could have claimed a
full £3OOO, as he was only
improving his medical know-
ledge and not seeking a further
degree. The department
claimed both were on pleasure,
and not only disallowed the
£750 but imposed a heavy
penalty for “false” returns.
Each demanded the matter be
brought before the Taxation
Board of Review, but it never
was.
Someone ought to write a
book on these impositions. A
good title? “The Autocrat of
the Taxation Table.” And
there’d be no shortage of
material. —A. S. H. (Q.).


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
WHY ARE STRIPPINGS RICH IN FAT?
By W. G. WHITTLESTONE
in Australia there still are a
lot of old - fashioned
farmers who hand-strip their
cows, and at meetings the old
question pops up:
“If I don’t strip-out that last
drop I’m losing the richest
milk ; surely I must lose pro-
duction if I don’t get it out?”
To this sort of question I
usually give an explanation
like that offered here in earlier
articles, but I can see from the
farmer’s face that he doesn’t
believe me, and doesn’t intend
to give up hand-stripping,
whatever he has heard.
Because this is such a
common question I think it
worth while to spend a bit more
time on it.
Hand-stripping, if unneces-
sary, is a bad practice. It takes
extra time and more
labor; it is unpleasant, and
helps to make good labor hard
to get; a dirty operation, it
makes producing good-quality
milk difficult ; and it gets cows
The Wool Industry
generally has been
concerned for some
time by the increasing
sales of synthetic fibres.
Whether or not such
fibres as nylon could
ever replace wool is
difficult to say. It is
certain, however, that
wool must look to its
laurels, and the need
for more and better
publicity is all too
obvious.
As a Saleable Com-
modity, wool must
maintain its superiority
over the synthetics.
Quality must be beyond
reproach. Ensure
quality and reduce
stock losses to a mini-
mum with the use of
Elastrator Rubber Rings
for marking and tail-
ing. Elastrator Rubber
Rings provide th e
proven method of safe,
sure castration and
tailing.
into bad habits which make for
slow machine-milking.
The cow’s milk is stored in
tiny round units, called alveoli,
which are connected to small
tubes or ducts. These tubes
join bigger tubes, and so on,
until the milk flows into a big
duct or cistern at the bottom
of the udder. Milk can't get
out of these alveoli any more
than water can get out of a
sponge unless it is squeezed
out. Around each alveolus
there is a little basket-arrange-
ment of muscle-fibres (myoe-
pithelium)l, which are stimu-
lated by a hormone from the
pituitary gland. When the cow
is stimulated this hormone
makes the fibres contract and
the milk is squeezed out into
the ducts. There are fibres
along the ducts as well, and
these act like valves which open
when the hormone is in the
blood and close again when the
hormone has been destroyed.
Milk, as everyone knows,
contains fat-globules tiny
spheres of fat which cluster
together. If they didn’t
cluster it would take days for
a cream layer to form on milk.
Actually, cream rises quickly
in cow's milk, which proves
that the globules are clustered
into quite big chunks.
Now, in the alveoli the
clusters occupy more space
than the little tubes through
which the milk is squeezed,
even when they are enlarged
by hormone action. This
means that there is some
resistance to the bigger clusters
getting out of the alveoli. When
let-down occurs, the free
globules and milk-serum flow
out first, followed by .the
clusters. This explains why the
last milk we get is so rich in
fat.
With a normal let-down,
which doesn’t last very long,
there is always milk left in the
alveoli ; and, it being mainly
composed of clusters of fat-
globules, it is therefore very
rich in fat. Even when we strip,
this milk complementary
milk, it is called—is left be-
hind ; it may be as much as
20 per cent, of the milk con-
tained in the udder, and be-
cause of its high fat-content it
may comprise as much as 30
per cent, of the total fat
secreted at any one time.
Leaving behind comple-
mentary milk has no effect on
production; there just isn’t
any way of getting it naturally.
The only way is to inject an
unnaturally high dose of
hormone. So there isn’t any
point in struggling to get the
last ounce of fat —you can’t
get it, however hard you
struggle. The milk left behind
from one milking is obtained
at the next; the high fat-
content “super-strippings” left
in the udder are just diluted
by normal milk secreted before
the next milking.
What would happen if a fair
amount of milk were left—say
one-third of the cow’s normal
yield? Such a quantity of
milk would result in higher
pressure building-up in the
udder. When pressure rises in
the alveoli a mechanism comes
into operation which causes the
ducts to relax and let some of
the milk flow into the cistern.
This mechanism is a recent
discovery made in the Soviet
Union, where physiologists
have found that the udder has
an elaborate pressure-regulat-
ing mechanism which stops the
pressure from rising too high
and so stopping secretion.
So if much milk is left
behind some of the milk in the
alveoli is transferred into the
cistern. During the flush most
high-producing cows have
quite a lot of milk in the
cistern when they come to be
milked. When a cow comes in
with a fairly high cistern-
pressure she usually has an
extra-good let-down, and so
milks-out faster. This makes it
possible to get all the extra
milk which has been left.
Of course there’s a limit to
the amount which can be left,
but a typical cow can go for
16 hours without losing any
secretion. The pressure-adjust-
ing mechanism looks after the
extra 50 per cent, or so of milk
secreted. After that, the cistern
is stretched to the limit. Then
the pressure goes up in the
alveoli. They swell and press
on the little blood-vessels
supplying them ; this reduces
the flow of blood, and so
slows-up the rate of secretion.
There are some snags in this
theory. I know of a few cows
which dried-off when stripping
was given-up. What hap-
pened? They were older cows
and it was evident that they
had been trained for years to
give their real let-down when
they were hand-stripped, so
that the only stimulation they
got was after the machine was
taken off. All the stimulation
they got at %the start was a
rough swipe at the udder with
a dirty udder-cloth ; then the
cups were clapped on.
Probably during the flush,
when the udder-pressure was
high, there would be a bit of
let-down, but as soon as the
pressure fell the let-down
would become feeble. The real
let-down happened when strip-
ping started.
It’s hard to teach an old dog
new tricks —and the same thing
applies to old cows. You might
manage to get cows like this to
respond by giving them the
works before putting on the
machine. The trouble is, of
course, that they have learned
to wait until the machine is on
before going into action.
Vigorous machine - stripping,
with the cups being pulled
down, l 'metimes works, and >s
worth trying.
Then there is another sort
of problem-cow. I had in my
experimental herd a pair of
twins that always let their milk
down in two lots. They would
have what looked like a normal
let-down, but after a few
minutes the flow stopped or
slowed-down. Then quite auto-
there would be a
second flow, and the cows
would milk-out completely.
These cows were shifted to
another dairy, where the
doubled let-down characteristic
was not known. Immediately
their production fell. When
they were allowed to have their
usual double let-down they
came back to normal.
Cows like this, accustomed
to hand-stripping, would be a
problem unless the milker knew
their habits. It would be
necessary to machine-strip
them in order to get a second
let-down, and then wait until
they had milked-out again.
The use of a flow-indicating
sight-glass or milk-flow indi-
cator is a help in such circum-
stances. It makes it possible
to see what is happening, and
to start machine-stripping
while the first flow is still at
a reasonable rate, thus saving
time. It is important to note
that both these twins had that
double let-down habit. Many
of the daughters of a famous
New Zealand Jersey bull had
this tendency, and these cows
in a herd were a problem when
stripping was stopped. If you
are stripping and intend to give
it up, the first thing to watch
for is the cow that responds with
a real second let-down when


you start to strip. She will
need machine - stripping with
stimulation for a while. You
may manage to get all of
her milk in one lot if
your first stimulation is good
enough and she can be taught
to respond to it.
We know from experience
that good milking-methods can
influence milking-rate and pro-
duction. We also know chaps
who strip and have record
milk-yields. Good stimulation
is necessary, and certainly
vigorous hand-stripping will
give it. The point I am trying
to make, however, is that this
is the hard way of getting the
cow’s maximum production.
I’ve been in sheds where it
would have been better to have
thrown-out the machine and
settled down honestly to hand-
milking.
Machine - milking without
hand-stripping is the most
hygienic way of getting milk,
and the easiest on the milker.
In these days, when it is hard
to get good help on the farm,
stripping is just another chore
that makes a man give up the
cowshed as a means of liveli-
hood. Good stimulation at the
start saves the need for strip-
ping, and enables you to get
all the cow can produce with-
out sweat —so why sweat?
Coast Trees and
Shrubs
“Sundowner”: There aren’t
many kinds of tree which grow
well when exposed to sea-
winds, but a good dense break
of -such as will grow, planted
on the windward boundary of
a property, makes it possible
to screen the growth of a range
of other hardy shrubs and
plants.
A. J. Plumridge, horticultural
adviser in Victoria, has stated
that the Norfolk Island pine
is the largest tree that will
thrive in coastal weather,
though it’s not a good break-
wind. In the same expert’s
opinion, it’s therefore best to
plant a triple row of trees, the
tallest taking the brunt of the
winds on the exposed side and
the smallest inside. Behind the
front line of Norfolks, he
suggested, plant sheoaks, and
then tea-trees; both do well
in windswept conditions.
For smaller holdings Plum-
ridge advised a row of casu-
arinas, then Lagunoria pater-
sonni, another Norfolk Island
species, or New Zealand laurel
and fire-trees. To complete the
break he recommended a third
row of large shrubs, like
oleander, macarantha, etc.
To improve the effect, smaller
varieties should be placed
where they aren’t obscured by
the taller ones. For the average
building-block, where large
trees are out of the question,
this can be done by planting
“I suppose you re proud of THAT, too!”
a row of small trees with a
row of shrubs at staggered
intervals in front.
The distance between large
trees should be 15ft.-20ft. ; be-
tween sheoaks allow 10ft.-15ft.,
and between smaller trees,
like the Lagunarici, Bft.-10ft.
Shrubs should be set 6ft.-Bft.
apart.
Plumridge said it’s advisable
to provide young trees with
shelter for the first year, and
where the soil is poor, compost
or rotted organic matter should
be worked-in to give them a
good start.
Soil-conservation
“Bovar”: Aware of the need
for soil - conservation the
Queensland Government has
appointed committees to plan
all future schemes within the
State. Such committees —com-
posed of senior technical-
officers from Government de-
partments and representatives
of local-authorities —have been
established on the Darling
Downs, the Atherton Tableland
and the South Burnett.
Disposal of run-off water is
the main problem in any large-
scale soil-conservation project,
so plans are designed to benefit
whole catchment-areas rather
than to serve individual pro-
perties. Because of their size,
these projects must include
effective systems for leading
large volumes of water harm-
lessly across farms, roads and
railways. Such systems are
costly, and, being permanent
works, must be soundly
planned, sited in the right
places and capable of protect-
ing farmlands without en-
dangering public-utilities.
The task of the committees
is to ensure that the best
possible plans are prepared in
the shortest time.
Guayule Rubber-plant
“Pastoral”: Inspection of the
State by American rubber-
growing promoter Hugh
Anderson has induced the
Westralian Department of
Agriculture to test the guayule-
plant in 20 trial-plots, at places
as far separated as Esperance
and the Kimberleys.
One of these plots will be
in the unlikely area of Kal-
goorlie or Coolgardie, where
rainfall is a highly unreliable
Sin. This plot will be grown
under irrigation and, as water
will have to come from the
Goldfields Water Supply
(which is not cheap), the test in
that area will be on only a
small scale. Possibly, because
it is convenient to test the rich
goldfields soils at Kal. or the
Old Camp, results may be of
value in other districts, like
Wiluna, where there is plenty
of underground water at
shallow depths.
The guayule normally requires
up to Min. of rain in its native
Mexico, though no doubt it
would not object to more.
There’s plenty of room for it
in W.A., even in the 10,000-
acre blocks, each with its
treatment-plant, envisaged in
the scheme.
Rubber-tyred Vehicles
“Billjim”: Rubber tyres
on farm-vehicles, especially on
tractors, are better than steel
wheels, though they need more
care. They give greater speed,
and so save time and operating-
costs, and they cause less
damage to the surface of roads.
The switch-over to rubber-
tyred tractors has meant
greater ' efficiency over a
wider range of gears and has
improved fuel-economy by
about 20 per cent. Also, rubber
gives more traction than steel
wheels, particularly in sand.
The corresponding disad-
vantage is that, with a heavy
load on wet grass or on a
greasy sloping surface, rubber
tyres need heavy weighting
to get full use of their power—
every 21b. added will give about
lib. more drawbar-pull, up to
the capacity of the engine. For
each 1001 b. added to the
tractor, the drawbar pull is
increased according to the con-
dition of the surface: on green
sward or sand, by 361 b.; sandy
loam, 501 b. ; dry clay, 551 b.;
concrete or bitumen, 661 b. To
load the tractor in order to
weight it properly, either trans-
fer the weight of the implement)
and its load by design-and-
hitch arrangement, or add
weights to the tractor-wheels
or -frame, or weight the


wheels by filling the tyres
partly or wholly with water.
The key to maintenance of
tyres is correct inflation-
pressure. Trouble comes from
stones or sharp objects, which,
where an obstacle has been
surmounted at too high a
speed, work in between the
tyre and rim and cause bruis-
ing. Test rear-tyre pressures
twice a week when the tractor
is in daily use. They should
also be checked when the
machine is idle or has been
placed on blocks. Pressures
should be adjusted when tyres
are cold. Over-inflation doesn't
compensate for overloading
the vehicle and only weakens
the tyres by reducing their
ability to absorb shocks.
Avoid spinning the .wheels in
mud or water, because tyres
cut more easily when the
rubber is wet. Oil and grease
adhering to tyres should be
removed as soon as possible,
and tyres should be kept free
of sprays. It always pays to
inspect tyres regularly and
attend to them at once if there
is any injury.
Water-filled tyres need not
be drained if the tractor is in
fairly constant use. They don’t
need such regular checking,
and can be run at slightly lower
pressure than normal, since the
added weight reduces wheel-
slip. But they should generally
be run more slowly and with
greater care, because if they
strike an obstacle they have no
cushion of air to absorb the
shock and so are more likely to
be damaged.
Perennial Rye-grass
“Belar”: Perennial rye-grass
(Lolium ' perenne) succeeds in
a variety of climates and soils,
and is palatable to cattle and
sheep.
Prepare the land well,
harrowing it to a fine tilth, as
for wheat, and enriching it,
where necessary, with 2cwt. to
3cwt. superphosphate an acre.
The rate of seeding is 301 b. to
401 b. an acre, broadcast to
ensure a thick stand growing
quickly. Autumn is the best
time for sowing, so that the
grass may be grazed in late
winter and spring. Harrow the
seed in lightly, and then roll
to firm the seedbed and hasten
germination.
On no account allow young
permanent pastures to ripen
seed for the first two years at
least, or they will be weakened
and die prematurely. Also, seed
saved from young pastures is
worthless, as it will produce
only plants of annual duration.
As soon as flower-heads
appear, mow the grass down
or graze it off quickly by turn-
ing in a mob of young cattle,
but make sure they don’t crop
the grass too closely. Young
cattle, lighter than full-grown
beasts, will not cut the pasture
up so much or pull-out the
young plants. When the grass
is well established, cattle may
be turned in—but don’t over-
stock.
A mixture of perennial rye,
cocksfoot and certified white-
clover makes a well-balanced
permanent pasture. For good
land, with an average rainfall,
151 b. perennial rye, 81b. cocks-
foot and 41b. certified white-
clover is the mixture recom-
mended. Each autumn give the
pasture a topdressing of lcwt.
superphosphate to the acre to
stimulate winter-growth.
Iron Deficiency
“Big Billy”: Peach-trees and
citrus in the Murray Valley
(Vic.) are being treated with
RA 157 and Chel. 138
(chemicals imported from the
U.S.A.) to combat a deficiency
of iron.
Previous trials by the De-
partment of Agriculture have
shown that chelated iron-com-
pounds used widely in America
were not effective in Australian
conditions. The new chemicals,
however, have improved the
yellow foliage of the trees.
One or two ounces of this iron-
chelate salt has been enough
to restore greenness within a
month. The chemicals are not
yet available in quantity, but
enough was obtained for the
experiments.
The department has been
conducting trials for many
years on yellowing of fruit-
trees caused by chlorosis from
lime. Versend and Perma-
Green 135, iron-chelates
obtainable in Australia, have
given improvement in leaf-
color when used on affected
pear-trees and orange-trees at
the rate of lib. to 31b. a tree.
But they aren’t effective on
peaches or on citrus other than
the orange. Research shows
that chlorosis is caused by the
action of water on the lime in
the soil.
Whatever new hope these
present trials give, the best
ways of avoiding this trouble
are: Plant vines or apricots on
plum-stock instead of peaches
or citrus on susceptible lime-
rich soils; make sure that
drains work well and irrigate
sparingly ; plant lucerne be-
tween the trees, as long as
there’s sufficient irrigation
available for both crops.
Field-peas
“Pisum”: Field-peas pro-
fitable for fodder or green-
manure, and their seeds good
for kitchen use—succeed in, for
instance, good wheat-districts
with an annual rainfall from
1 Sin. to 20in. In fact, they
grow well in most fertile soils,
given good drainage, though
they produce the largest yields
in deep, friable loams. In very
rich soils they grow too
vigorously, producing vines at
the expense of pods.
A dressing of 4cwt. lime to
the acre, ploughed-in three
weeks before sowing, helps the
crop. For fertiliser, try a com-
plete mixture, containing a
large percentage of super-
phosphate and potash, drilled-
in with the seed at 3cwt. to the
acre. Work the land deeply
and thoroughly to a fine tilth
just before sowing, which can
be done in autumn, winter or
early spring, according to
locality. Seed in drills, 2ft.
apart, covering the seed with
2im soil, and using 301 b. to
401 b. seed an acre.
Sown in conjunction with
barley or oats, field-peas make
a succulent and nutritious
green-fodder. They are rich in
protein, and combine with the
cereals to form a well-balanced
ration. When peas and cereals
are sown together, use
peas to 1 bushel cereal, and
graze or cut the crop when the
flower-heads of the oats appear.
The mixture makes excellent
hay, which should be cut when
the peas are in full bloom.
For green-manure, sow peas
alone, plough them under when
in flower, and sow the succeed-
ing crop over them.
The main varieties are blue,
dun and grey—the last variety
is also known as pigeon-,
partridge- and maple-peas. The
blue is the “blue boiler,”
usually sold in packets as
“green peas,” while the dun
and grey are halved and
skinned to form split-peas,
used for thickening soups and
stews. The grey pea is also
used in the diet of racing-
pigeons, hence its alternative
name.
Silage
“K.S.”: The making and
consolidating of silage is now
generally understood, but its
handling from the stack,
bunker or pit is still a subject
of controversy.
It’s generally best for a
grazier or farmer, feeding up
to (say) 200 head of cattle or
their equivalent in sheep, to
use a front-end loader, in con-
junction with stacks or
bunkers. -
Often the front-end loader
can actually tear silage out of
the stack unassisted, though
where the material is too well
consolidated or the stack is
fairly deep some cutting or
easing is necessary. W. E.
Hawker,' a grazier from Clare
(S.A.), has hit on the idea of
using sticks of gelignite to
solve this problem. With a
crowbar, he made a hole down
to the bottom of the stack, well
back from the face, and put in
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(11/6/’59)
Southern Queensland and the north coastal districts
should receive good rains during July, although rainfall may
be light elsewhere. Good rains should occur in much of the
State during August, and, with the exception of the far
western divisions, should continue for the rest of the year.
N.S.W. should receive moderate to good rains during
July, with best falls on the north-west slopes and plains and
northern tablelands districts, and heaviest on the North
Coast. Rainfall may be light in part of the Riverina and
far-western districts. Moderate to good rains are indicated
for August and the rest of the year.
In Victoria rainfall may vary from light to moderate
during July, although fairly heavy rains should occur in
August ; there is likely to be flooding in the southern half
of the State.
South Australia may expect light to moderate rains
below average during July, although good rains should
begin in the agricultural areas during August and continue
throughout the spring.
Rainfall may be moderate and below normal in the agri-
cultural areas of Western Australia during July, although
good rains are indicated for August. Rainfall may be con-
sistently below normal in the pastoral areas.
LENNOX WALKER.


GENUINE TILLEY
SPARE PARTS
FOR LAMPS, LANTERNS, IRONS
AND RADIATORS
Although Import Restrictions may
make it more difficult to obtain
ALL the Tilley Spares you need,
limited supplies of every item
ARE available. If your Store-Keeper
is temporarily unable to
help you, ask him to contact
the Australian Agents :
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LTD
1092 Mt. Alexander Road, Essendon, W. 5. Victoria
Phone: FX 4747
a charge or two of gelignite at
suitable intervals. When this
was exploded, the silage was
sufficiently broken-up to allow
easy handling by the front-
end loader.
It’s too early yet to say
whether this technique will
always work, but I suggest that
it certainly looks like touching
something off.
¥ * *
“Sevenelms”: When feeding-
out silage over the fence which
protects the stack, push the
unpalatable char and top into
a tidy head on one side. This
helps to prevent adding to the
pugging round the stack, and
the discard can be used to
enrich the vegetable-patch.
Farm Costs
“Aerogenes”: “Ruddigore’s”
request (B. 20/5/’59) for more
information on which to base
his farming-programme is one
heard far too often for the
general health of farming.
There’s no book to tell a
farmer which type of farm-
activities will be most profit-
able for him ; and no one, how-
ever expert, can plan a pro-
gramme better than the farmer
can himself. He knows better
than anyone else what he
wants to do, what resources
are available, what obstacles
are in the w'ay, and all the other
factors that come into it.
Of course, the more informa-
tion a farmer can get, and the
better its quality, the wiser will
be his decisions. Items of
value are weather-information ;
prices and market-trends ; up-
to-the-minute details of new
machines and new farming-
practices ; facts about his
neighbors’ experiences with
simijar problems; and complete
accurate records of his own
activities.
That last item is as useful as
any other, because costs vary
from farm to farm —over 300
per cent., according to a recent
Milk Board survey—so that no
other man’s experience can be
taken as a true guide ; it can
only be a small part of the
evidence to be considered.
One farm may get more rain
or have better soil than another
just across the road, so a farmer
must discover and take ad-
vantage of any natural privi-
leges he may possess—or allow
for any drawbacks. He must
make a plan to fit his farm,
not his neighbor’s or some
farm in the U.S.A.
There are stacks of books in
bookshops and public libraries
on the principles of farming
and stock-management. Those
recommended for the study of
farm-economics by the N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture
are: The Farm as a Business
(published by H.M. Stationery
Office, London) ; Farm Book-
keeping, by Kirkwood (pub-
lished in Britain) ; Farm
Management Economics, by
Heady and Jensen (of the
U.S.A.).
“Ruddigore" could apply the
principles given in these books
to the problems he quotes ; but
he’ll have to decide for himself
what the limiting factors of his
farm are and which resources
are in good supply and avail-
able for greater use —whether
they are capital, labor, fertility
of the soil, climate or outlets
for more production of one
sort or another.
If, say, his milking-plant is
big enough to handle more
cows without costing more in
labor or capital, then more
cows might be the right move,
unless the returns are too low.
If conditions are not good for
growing or marketing grain he
might be better-off fattening
cattle, which fits-in well with
dairying and uses little extra
labor.
The whole question of in-
formation for farmers needs
immediate close attention. The
Government advisory service
is not adequate, partly because
it lacks money, but also be-
cause it often lacks drive,
imagination and suitable
advisers. With only two or
three assorted advisers avail-
able to cover a thousand farms
or more, a farmer is lucky to
get a routine visit once a year,
and there are so many calls
for advice and so many meet-
ings and so forth to attend that
personal contact with Govern-
ment sources of information is
very limited.
Farmers’ organisations some-
times make it possible for
specialists to lecture on im-
portant topics, and the best
part of such meetings is ques-
tion-time, when lecturers can
get right down to brass tacks.
But many farmers’ organisa-
tions are not suitable for
spreading information. Some
are designed to express the
opinions of limited sections or
to work for special political
objects. In others the details
of finance and management
and the constant labor of
keeping-up attendances draws
too heavily on the time and
energy of those willing to take
office.
In my opinion it would pay
farmers to spend a considerable
sum and organise more com-
plete and effective information
services.
In New Zealand and in a
few places in Australia there
are Farmers’ Clubs which
employ advisers for them-
selves. Each adviser is shared
by not more than ,50 members,
so there is always personal
contact. The job of the adviser
is not to be the heavy expert,
laying down the law, but to co-
ordinate the group’s activities
towards better farming. It is
he who seeks-out the necessary
information from any source
available —Government depart-
ments, pamphlets, commercial
propaganda, local and overseas
publications, experience and
experiments. He does the
reading, research and personal
investigation which each
farmer could not possibly do
for himself.
There are frequent group-
meetings, and co-operative
trading and commercial ven-
tures are sometimes undertaken,
but the main point is that the
adviser is at home on every
member’s farm, and in close
touch with every problem, able
to bring to bear on it all the
information his trained mind
can muster. Through him
members—who each pay £5O
to £BO a year for the service-
help each other to be more suc-
cessful.
The natural centre for col-
lection and dissemination of
farming information seems to
be the producers’ co-operative
societies. They already have
the interest and attention of
the members and the organisa-
tion and business machinery
needed for control and admini-
stration of such a centre.
Some societies already em-
ploy field-officers, while a co-
operative factory or packing-
house might be a good place
to establish a library for the
use of its members. There
might also be rooms which
could be used for meetings.
It might even be possible to
start an information-service by
phone, for a fee which could
be paid as part of the phone-
bill.
To combine good rooms and
good books at headquarters,
with one or more field-officers
capable of giving an advisory
service like that of the Farmers’
Clubs, would make an informa-
tion-service worth having.


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Man, 26, ex-teacher, wants out-
back job. Good worker. —6839.
Does Anybody Know?
Author and title of the poem
which contains the following
lines :
It is the end of evensong—
He sleeps but finds perpetual birth
Within our hearts, within our earth!
Information Sought
(1) How many times did Bill
Squires and Bill Lang meet ? (2)
How many times did Tommy Burns
and Bill Squires meet ? (3) How
often did Tommy Burns and Bill
Lang fight ? (4) Was Lang in world
class ? (5) Was Pat Doran ever
Australian heavyweight champion ?
(1) Three times (1909-11). Lang
won all three by k.o. —in 17
rounds, seven rounds and five
rounds. (2) Tommy Burns and Bill
Squires fought three times, Burns
winning all three. In America
Burns k.o.’d Squires in the first
round; he met and defeated him
in France; and in August, 1908,
at Sydney Stadium, he k.o.’d him
in the 13th round. (3) Twice —in
1908, in Sydney, he stopped Lang
in six rounds (this fight was billed
for the world’s heavyweight title
—which Burns lost to Jack Johnson
a few months later), and in 1910
Burns defeated him for the
Australian heavyweight title. (4) Not
really—certainly not in the class
of either Burns or Johnson (who
also just played with him). (5) No.
• * * *
Who were the first three Austra-
lian V.C.s ?
There were six Australian V.C.-
winners in the Boer War. The first
three were: Lieut. Neville (later Sir
Neville) Reginald Howse, bravery
at Vredefort on July 24, 1900;
Lieut. Guy George Egerton Wylly
and Trooper John Hutton Bisdee,
both near Warm Bad on September
1, 1900.
* * * *
Details of the 1959 Composers’
Competition ?
Sponsored by the Australian
Performing Right Association and
the A.8.C., the competition is open
to natural-born or naturalised
British subjects domiciled in Aus-
tralia or its Territories. All com-
positions entered for the competi-
tion must be original and not
previously published, broadcast or
publicly performed. The sections
are: (a) Composition for symphony
orchestra; prize of £lOO. A
concert - overture of maximum
duration of eight minutes, scored
for full symphony orchestra
and suitable for performance by
the Australian Youth Orchestra or
similar orchestras of advanced
student standard. Entries must be
submitted in full orchestral (con-
ductor’s) score. Entries should be
of high musical quality and interest
and of a degree of difficulty not
exceeding the capabilities of
advanced students or semi-profes-
sional players. The winning entry
will be considered for public per-
formance by the Australian Youth
Orchestra in Adelaide in 1960. An
additional special prize of £5O is
offered for the best entry submitted
by a competitor under the age of
30 years (as at August 28, 1959).
( b ) Light orchestral composition;
first-prize, £75. A light orchestral
composition of a maximum dura-
tion of four minutes for
performance by an orchestra of
approximately 30 players, the
instrumentation to be at the dis-
cretion of the composer. Entrants
may submit either the full orchestral
(conductor’s) score or the piano-
score only. A.P.R.A. will arrange
for the commercial recording of
any entry or entries considered to
be of sufficient merit. Second-prize
in this section, £5O; third-prize, £25.
If the first-prize is awarded to a
work submitted in piano-score only,
arrangements will be made to com-
mission an orchestration of the
work and the cost will be deducted
from the prizemoney. (c) Choral
composition, first-prize, £5O. A
short choral composition of a
maximum duration of four minutes,
written in three or four parts for
mixed or male or female voices and
intended for performance either un-
accompanied or with pianoforte
accompaniment. Any published
or unpublished words may be used,
but wherever it is necessary to
obtain the author’s or copyright
owner’s permission for their use, it
will be the responsibility of the
composer to obtain such permission
before submitting entry. Any entries
of sufficient merit will be brought
to the notice of eisteddfod com-
mittees responsible for the selection
of test-pieces for choral competi-
tions. Second-prize in this section,
£2O; third-prize, £lO.
Closing-date for receipt of MSS.
is August 28, 1959; entry-forms
available from A.P.R.A., 66 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
* • * •
When was the Australian National
Research Council formed, and what
are it's present status and functions ?
The organisation was formed in
1919 as part of what is now the
Australian and New Zealand Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of
Science. Its objects are: (1) To
represent Australia on the Inter-
national Research Council; (2) To
promote generally, as far as possible
in co-operation with existing institu-
tions, the cause of scientific
research in Australia; and (3) To
serve as an Australian National
Academy of Science. Subjects
represented were agriculture, anthro-
pology, astronomy, botany, chemis-
try, economics and statistics,
engineering, geography, mathe-
matics, mental science and
metallurgy, pathology, physics,
physiology, veterinary science and
zoology. In 1954 the main func-
tions of the Research Council were
handed-over to the Royal Austra-
lian Academy of Science; the coun-
cil had published the “Australian
Journal of Science” (every two
months), with “Australian Science
Abstracts” as a supplement, of
which 16 vols. had been issued to
1954. The council also published,
“Fair sort of a roll!”
in conjunction with the C.5.T.R.0.,
the “Australian Journals of Scien-
tific Research” and “Oceania.”
Subsequently the University of
Sydney assumed responsibility for
the production of “Oceania,” and
the Australian and New Zealand
Association for the Advancement
of Science took-over the “Austra-
lian Journal of Science.”
» * * *
Some information on Sir Edmund
Hillary?
Born in Auckland (N.Z.), on
July 20, 1919, he was educated at
Auckland Grammar School. After
spending two years at Auckland
University he joined his father’s
beekeeping business. He was in
the R.N.Z.A.F. during War 11, and
in 1944-45 was a Flight-Sergeant
Navigator on Catalinas in the
Pacific. He first visited mountains
in 1935; between 1944 and 1950
he did extensive climbing in the New
Zealand Alps, and in 1950 climbed
in Austria and Switzerland. In the
spring of 1951 he was a member of
the first N.Z. Expedition to the
Himalayas. In 1953 he was one
of the successful British Expedition
to Mt. Everest, reaching the summit
with Tensing on May 29. Turning
his attention to Antarctica, he was
a member of the 1955-56 British
Expedition on the Theron, which
penetrated the Weddell Sea and
established Shackleton Base. In
1956-58 he led the New Zealand
Antarctic Expedition, establishing
the New Zealand (Scott) Base in
McMurdo Sound and laying-out
depots for Sir Vivian Fuchs's trans-
Antarctica party. At present he’s
in partnership with his brother
operating their 1300 hives of bees;
he is also writing a detailed account
of his Antarctic activities. Publica-
tions: High Adventure, East of
Everest (with George Lowe) and
The Crossing of Antarctica (with
Sir Vivian Fuchs).
• • * •
What were the Seven Wonders of
the World ?
(1) The Pyramids of Egypt, (2)
the Gardens of Semiramis at Baby-
lon (the famous “Hanging
Gardens”), (3) the statue of Zeus
at Olympia, (4) the temple of
Artemis at Ephesus, (5) the
Mausoleum at Halicarnassus, (6)
the Colossus at Rhodes, and (7) the
Pharos (lighthouse) at Alexandria,
* * * *
' s it possible to record the weight
°f a human hair ?
Yes. At an Electronics and
Automation Exhibition in London
in 1957 a balance was shown which
wa s so sensitive that it could
measure the weight of ink in a
full-stop, or the amount of steel
lost from the edge of a razor-blade
j n a single shave,
* * * *
Was the Order of Merit founded
for the purpose of honoring dis-
tinguished literary men ?
No. It was founded by Edward
VII as a special distinction for
eminent men and women—without
conferring a knighthood on them,
The Order is limited to 24 members,
plus foreign honorary members,
Membership is of two kinds, Mili-
tary and Civil, the badge of the
former being crossed swords, and
the latter oak-leaves. Membership
is denoted by the letters 0.M., and


in precedence the order ranks imme-
diately after the first-class of the
Order of the Bath, preceding all
inferior classes of the Bath and all
lesser orders of Knighthood. Several
literary men have received the
0.M., among them Thomas Hardy,
John Masefield and T. S. Eliot.
• * * •
Some particulars about the
F. 8.1. ?
The U.S. Federal Bureau of
Investigation was created in 1908
on the order of Attorney-General
Charles J. Bonaparte. Special
agents of the Bureau are charged
with the duty of investigating viola-
tions of the laws of the United
States and collecting evidence in
cases in which the U.S. is, or may
be, a party.
F. 8.1. men are college-trained;
they must be graduates of an
accredited law-school or account-
ancy-school. During 13 weeks of
training at Quantico (Virginia), they
must learn the various Federal
violations over which the F. 8.1.
has jurisdiction; the techniques and
mechanics of arrest and the search
of crime-scenes for evidence; pro-
ficiency in the use of firearms. At
joining, agents must be between 25
and 4U years old.
The F. 8.1. Laboratory, in addi-
tion to the work it does for its
own organisation, also handles much
material for local, county and
State law-enforcement agencies.
The F. 8.1. National Academy is
open to selected police-officers from
every State in the Union. It has
also been attended by officers from
other countries.
Brief Answers
E.W.: It depends entirely on the
quality of the stories. There is a
reasonably good market for books
of short-stories suitable for chil-
dren ; suggest you write for further
advice to Angus and Robertson,
Ltd., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
B.G.: As far as is known,
there is only one standard work
on the subject: Modern Brick
Making, by Searle, available from
Angus and Robertson (address
above), price £6 9s. 6d., postage
3s. 6d. There are also good articles
in encyclopaedias at public libraries.
. ...T.1.: The Hebrew word “rosh”
means chief or head. For instance,
“rosh yeshibah” is the head of a
rabbinical college ( Jewish Encyclo-
paedia). Rosh Hodesh (or Chodesh)
is the beginning of the month in
the Jewish calendar. No informa-
tion available on the other “rosh”
matters T.K.: In 1946 Lady
Docker, as Mrs. Norah Royce
Callingham, married Sir William
Henry Collins, who died in Novem-
ber, 1947. She married Sir Bernard
Docker in 1949... .W.E.W.: Sug-
gest you write to the Mitchell
Library, Macquarie Street, Sydney,
for information on the tribe in
question... .C.J.: Suggest you, too,
write to the Mitchell He
must have been relatively unimport-
ant, as neither the Australian
Encyclopaedia nor Macartney and
Miller’s Australian Literature knows
anything of his works... .J.R.:
The Australian Encyclopaedia says:
“On August 22, 1770, Cook and
his company landed on an island
near Cape York and there pro-
claimed possession of the whole
Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.
Claims which state the
section in which paragraphs
appear and the date of
appearance will be paid more
promptly than those which
don’t.
eastern coast in the name of King
George 111. The scene of this
historic ceremony was named
Possession Island”... .R.P.: The
1959 Who’s Who gives his address
as c/o Jonathan Cape, Ltd., 30
Bedford Square, W.C.I, London.
The last piece of information given
by Who’s Who about him is that
he was “travelling in Africa, U.S.
and Canada, 1947-58.” He was
born in London in 1895....
W.J.W.: According to the 1959
Whitaker’s Almanack, the popula-
tion of the United Kingdom at
June 30, 1957 (excluding armed
forces overseas), was 51,455,000.
. ...N.H.: According to Sidney J.
Baker's Dictionary of Australian
Slang “skyhacking” refers to the
practice of backbiting or black-
guarding a person... .W.D.: Get
in touch with a solicitor P.P.:
Enclose a self-addressed, stamped
envelope for possible return.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
C.F.: No payable ore in that
mine....MJ.: Stick to prose....
R. 8.: The office-boy was vastly
interested... .P.R.G.: Occasional
roughnesses (as in the third line of
the second stanza and the first
line-of the last) spoil it W.T.:
Put it away somewhere for a few
years, then have another go at it.
.. ..0.L.: Has the bouncy stolidity
of a school - magazine story....
J.N.: It creaks... .1.P.: Too far
off the beaten track.... 8.G.: An
interesting variation on the “crime
doesn’t pay” theme, but the total
effect is tepid... .R.N.: The
“brawny country youth” was over-
come by a flying tackle... .J.T.:
They all move about like wooden
dolls'... .D.R.R.: The only good
point about it' is that it’s short.
. ...H.8.: The pelicans and ibises
are prancing around in the basket.
. ...F.P.: All those superlatives!
. ...E.N.: With a bit of polishing
and a discreet cut or two it might
pass.,. .T.M.: Most of the charac-
ters shriek like paper-boys.'...
A.M.L.: Fragmentary... .K.J.: The
idea behind the poem could well
make a short-story, but you’d need
to alter the ending... .O.B.: Try it
on a women’s magazine... .H.T.:
Concentrate on looser writing. At
present your style is too tight and
is choked with unnecessary super-
fluity... .J.V.: The same might
almost be said of “Freddy’s Horse,’’
except that, generally speaking, it’s
a better-written story... .W.M.:
Modelled too closely on The Wind
in the Willows... Far too
long and diffuse... .C.K.F.: Stutters
along like a pneumatic-drill
S.W.: It reaches new heights of
absurdity... .T.P.: Some of the
rhymings are novel, but on the
whole the poem is rather flat....
IX.: The setting—a South Sea
island —is pleasant, but the story
tends to lean too much on Becke.
G.G.: All that can be said at
this stage is: keep trying... .R.T.:
What is the meaning of “Lacy
fringes palm-bedecked as my heart
the lake balmed palmily’’?....
D. Agree entirely with your
views on colloquialism; the only
trouble is that some colloquialisms
are unprintable.... F.8.N.: Tidy-
up the plot and get rid of the
“novel” ending.... A.P.: Don’t
try to imitate other writers. It
may be hard, but try to cevelop
your own style... .M.J.: The
rooster crowed before being thrust
into the basket... .S.S.: It comes
close to passable parody, but you
need to take more care with facts.
T.G.: The girl may well be
“some dish,” but a story requires
more than that. 0.M.: Try your
hand at paragraph-writing
E. : A thougut in it....D.E.:
Hobbles along... .T.T.: Such a
theme might, handled properly,
form the basis of a play... .F.L.:
Abyssmally humorless.. . .P.H.: Yes,
but a story must have a begin-
ning, a development, a crisis-
section and a tailing-off... .C. 8.:
“The pine-trees’ soft lament” isn’t
bad, even if the poem, as a whole,
lacks forceful unity... .A.S.: The
recipe was indigestible... .W.L.:
The fisherman in gumboots got
swallowed by a whale... .LX:
Nullarbor verse long and sandy.
....B.B.: Come again, less ver-
bosely G.P.: A little too studied
in rhythmical effect... .T.J.: Try
mastering basic punctuation and
grammatical rules first... .0.N.:
Like a flustered stenographer, it’s
breathless and incoherent... .D. 8.:
“The Ginger Cat’s Song” might
interest the cats... .M E.: An
incredibly tough character; he broke
away from the Short Story Editor
and scuttled out of the office.
THE HOLLIDAYS
“The captains compliments, sir. Would you please replace all divots."


Womens Letters
SYDNEY
Current theme of our visitors this week
is: “It might as well be spring.” Locals
(in good old English tradition) keep
silent their thoughts about the sunshine
sparkling on the Harbor, the gay blooming
of poinsettias and the iced-blue depth of
sky, and become voluble only when the
temperature falls a trifle below its
seasonal low, or the clouds completely
cover the sun.
* * *
There was a strong emphasis on
youth with the Vienna Boys’ Choir
and the University Drama Festival
attracting large audiences, while the
enthusiasm of young committee-members
gave fresh impetus to discussions about
functions ahead—mostly planned to raise
money for causes that concern children.
# #
The Golden Ball, which will honor
Princess Alexandra and raise money for
the Royal N.S.W. Institution for Deaf
and Blind Children, will be.held at the
Trocadero on September 10, and tickets
will be sgns. each, which includes
champagne. This was decided at the
inaugural meeting of the ball-committee,
at which Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere was
elected president, Mrs. Russell Nash
deputy-president, Mrs. John Atwill and
Mrs. David Lloyd Jones vice-presidents,
Caroline Anderson hon. secretary and
Prue Pratten hon. treasurer. The youth-
ful committee selected by Mrs. Dekyvere
has 40 members, all of whom are under
30 ; each will take. 10 tickets, and another
600 invitations will be held for the
general public, who should make their
applications straight away.
V V V
Not a cough or a creaking chair was
heard at the Town Hall on Saturday
night when the Vienna Boys Choir
worked its usual spell on a large and
delighted audience, which included Arch-
bishop and Mrs. Gough and their
daughter ; Lady Braddon ; Mr. and Mrs.
Leo Cherniavsky (just arrived from
London); Miss Doris Fitton; Mr. and
Mrs. C. J. Delaney and the Hugh Hunts.
Quite apart from their beautiful voices,
the boys possess such appeal that one
could feel the wave of warmth flowing
out to them from the audience from
their opening number until, in sheer self-
defence, they had to sing the “Maori
Farewell” as yet another and final encore.
Those among the more maternal-minded
(and overhead to comment on the way
out, “Aren’t they just adorable!”) will
be pleased to know the boys are
thoroughly enjoying themselves in the
way of small boys the world over. They
get into scrapes, collect odd bits and
pieces like string, beetles and worms —
and were ver y dred and hap’py little boys
when they returned from a picnic held
““ f< ™i S
niSed f ° r them loCal P eo P le and aided
enthusiastically by Mr. and Mrs. Garnet
Carroll (over from Melbourne for the
onPn ; n „ m'ohtt
S S )■
Talented young actress Julie Kierath
is to play feminine lead in the Greek
comedy “Dyscolus,” which opens at
Sydney University’s Wallace Theatre on
July 4 in the current Festival of Drama
and Music. A fourth-year student, Julie,
who is the eldest daughter of Mr. C. G.
Kierath, of Newcastle, made her first
stage-appearance when a schoolgirl, and
has taken part in several of the Uni-
versity’s drama-festivals. Photo by
Norton Trevaire.
As each couple enters the Pickwick
Club on Saturday night for the
Boomerang Ball ' they will be given
“magic” boomerangs which could bring
lucky ones a very handsome prize. The
function has been arranged by the
Nunyara committee to help the N.S.W.
Society for Crippled Children, and a
highlight will be a “Belle of the Ball”
competition which will' be judged by
Mrs. Gregory Kater, patroness of the
committee. Secretary of the Nunyara
committee (its aboriginal meaning, by the
way, is “to make well again”) is Miss
Mary Tancred (MU4411), who will supply
any further details.
☆ ☆ ☆
Often too little is heard of the work
being done for causes that should be
solidly supported. Notable in this respect
is the Broughton Hall Auxiliary, whose
members are striving to provide
amenities for patients at the Psychiatric
Clinic, and to let people know more
about its work. With this objective in
view, the enthusiasm at the supper-dance
held by the auxiliary at Prince’s on
Saturday night was readily understood
and quite contagious.
Those who added to it in no small
way (and to the undoubted success of
the evening) were its president, Mrs.
W. H. Trethowan (her short evening-
dress was of gift-green satin), and Pro-
fessor Trethowan; Dr. and Mrs.
Nicholas Radeski (she has just taken-
over as social-secretary) ; Dr. and Mrs.
David Maddison (she, who is commit-
tee-secretary, looked charming in a
strapless gown of Paris-sky taffeta beaded
in white and mauve). Dr. and Mrs.
Listwan, also working hard on the enter-
tainment-committee, produced unsus-
pected qualities as sales-promoters, as
also did Mr. Nicholas Radzcowski.
V V #
A giant model of Queen Elizabeth I
made an effective background at the
Elizabethan Theatre Ball on Friday night
at Prince’s and the red-and-white decora-
tions of the EJ-shaped official table a
most attractive setting. The Governor
and Lady Woodward, who were guests-
of-honor, were welcomed by president
Mrs. Kenneth Hill and Dr. Hill. Hus-
bands of committee-members did a great
part in helping to make the night a
financial success, while their wives made
sure everyone had a good time. Promin-
ent in this way were Dr. and Mrs. List-
wan, Mr. and Mrs. Tony Buckingham
and Mr. and Mrs. James Cohen Guests
included Dr. and Mrs. Coombs, Lieut.-
Commander and Mrs. Donald Ross.
* ☆ *
A popular topic of the past few days
is what some people insist is the hypno-
tism of Danny Kaye. On his opening
night at the Empire he succeeded in
getting even the most dignified among
his audience cracking their fingers in
Spanish style, and joining in a sort of
three-part glee.
Most women in the first-night audience
had taken special care with their dress-
ing, the result being most glamorous.
Satin theatre-coats in glowing colors were
popular, sparkling tiaras added to the
effect, and gold-and-silver matalasse was
seen in many of the more elegant dresses.
The pale-gold of Lady Tait’s gown was
embossed with a deeper shade at
shoulders and waist, and gay blossoms
rioted over the black theatre-coat Mrs.
Garnet Carroll wore over a slim jewelled
sheath. The cardigan made entirely of
moonlight sequins worn by Mrs. A.
Fulop was very lovely.
☆ ☆ *
Sydney University’s Ninth Interna-
tional Festival of Drama and Music
began on Saturday night with the first
of three world premieres, and attracted a
number of the Polish community to see
“Sinners Without Guilt,” whose author
is Polish-born Stefan Gryff.
Another performance on the festival


programme, claimed to be a world-
premiere, will be of “Dyscolus” (its
author, Menander, lived in Athens about
300 b.c.), and the festival’s closing item
will be a world-premiere of “Dead Men
Walking,” by Robert Hughes, an
architecture-student.
MELBOURNE
Champagne flowed, a superb dinner
was served, and women wore their most
glamorous gowns in the Myer Mural
Hall when King Wool was honored —
a rich setting for the showing of a
wonderful collection of almost 100
woollen gowns and suits for all occasions,
valued at £35,000. This gala-premiere of
t’he International Wool Fashion Parade
will gather-in £lOOO for the Alfred Hos-
pital Building Appeal.
The chairman of directors of the
Myer Emporium, Mr. A. H. Tolley, and
Mrs. Tolley (she wearing a deep-cream
French-lace frock covered with a parch-
ment silk-taffeta coat) received the official
guests. These included Federal Treasurer
Harold Holt and Mrs. Holt (her fine-
wool gown was printed with brilliant
flowers on a white ground), the deputy-
chairman of the Myer Emporium, Mr.
Kenneth Myer, and his wife ; Sir Arthur
and Lady Warner ; Mr. and Mrs. David
Lloyd Jones (Sydney); chairman of the
A.H. Building Appeal, Mr. Eric Avery;
and Dr. and Mrs. Buchanan.
In Mr. and Mrs. Baillieu Myer’s party
were Mrs. Sam Hordern (Sydney), Sir
Rupert and Lady Clarke, and Mrs. Fred
Fair. Mr. and Mrs. John Carrodus were
there, as were Mrs. W. H. Horsfall, her
daughter Mrs. Graham Oliver (Kyneton)
and daughter-in-law Mrs. Hedley Ladd,
Mrs. Jack Steele (Hastings), Mrs. Ada
Colman, Mrs. Frank Fogarty, Dorothy
Ganley, Mr. and Mrs. H. I. Fader, Mr.
and Mrs. Clifford Ellis and their son
Hilary and his wife.
☆ ☆ ☆
Sir Edmund and Lady Herring were
in the audience when, at the Little
Theatre, a gala-performance of “The
Philadelphia Story” was staged by the
Camberwell Auxiliary of the Brotherhood
of St. Laurence. Proceeds will be devoted
to the work the Brotherhood does for
the aged. Also in the official party were
Sir Leslie and Lady Martin, Lady Norris,
University Chancellor Mr. Justice Dean
and Mrs. Dean. President of the
auxiliary, Mrs. A. L. Read, received them
with the organiser, Miss M. E. Rawlins.
Noted also in the audience were Dr. and
Mrs. T. Crankshaw, Mrs. John Casson,
Mrs. Dal Mein and Mr. and Mrs. Alfred
Fowler.
☆ ☆
Guests at the late-afternoon party
given at Majella, St. Kilda Road, by
members of the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra Subscribers’ Committee were
welcomed by its president, Mrs. Guy
BakewelU Guests-of-honor were the
French baritone, Gerard Souzay, and
conductor Kurt Woess. Those attending
included the Ewart Chappies, Mr. and
Mrs. Desmond Deasey, Mr. and Mrs.
Howard King, Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth
Hunt, Miss L. Cairns Lloyd and Miss
Bertha Jorgensen (leader of the Vic-
torian Symphony Orchestra).
Having been granted six months’ leave
of absence from the various committees
on which she serves, Mrs. James
Buchanan is concentrating on her work
as president of the women’s group of
the Alfred Hospital Building Appeal.
The wife of a well-known surgeon, Mrs.
Buchanan is the mother of four daugh-
ters; and, though all of them have left
school, she is still a member of the St.
Catherine’s Parents’ Association. When
the Alfred Hospital appeal is finished,
Mrs. Buchanan will carry on her work
for International House. Mrs. Buchanan,
who is tall, slim and has a peaches-and-
cream complexion, has also been greatly
in demand as a mannequin for numerous
charity-appeals.
At a luncheon-party given by Mrs.
L. R. Buxton at her Armadale home to
help the Sacre Coeur Building Fund,
decorations included a large silver dish
filled with slipper-orchids. Mrs. Ross
Batten assisted her mother in the
hostessing. Other functions planned as
money-spinners for this cause include
a jumble-sale at the Malvern Town Hall
on July 2 and 3, a card-party at No. 9
Darling Street on July 13, and in August
Mrs. Alan Corr and Mrs. Kenneth
Cussen will give a luncheon-party.
☆ ☆ ☆
Twelve charming debutantes, wearing
identical frocks of white nylon-tulle em-
bossed with a lace-design, and carrying
trails of deep-pink carnations tied with
pink ribbon, came - out at the annual
Prince Henry’s Hospital cabaret-ball at
the Royale Ballroom. Guests-of-honor
were the Dean of the hospital’s clinical
school, Dr. Keith Bottomley, and his
wife, to whom the debutantes were pre-
sented. A large portrait of Queen
Elizabeth was the focal point of the
decorations, with the official-table and the
smaller ones set in the ballroom gay
with posies of colorful flowers. Mr. I. L.
Schroder, ball-committee president, and
Mrs. Schroder received the official guests,
among whom were the Mayor of South
Melbourne, Dr. Janet Cooper, and Cr.
Milton Gray (president of the hospital);
Mr. and Mrs. W. K. Burnside (she wear-
ing a lovely gown of floral silk-faille);
the Hon. Simon Warrender and his wife
(the latter in a gown of silver-grey satin-
brocade); Dr. and Mrs. Douglas Donald
(her short strapless bouffant frock was
of pale-mauve shot-taffeta); and hospital
Matron Miss A. H. Morgan, who chose
a gown of dove-grey Chantilly-lace.
# S-
Guest-of-honor at a luncheon given by
the executive committee of the Vic-
toria League was Miss Mary Goldie,
Lady -in - Waiting to Princess Alice,
Countess of Athlone, whom she was
to join later in Brisbane (Princess
Alice is president of the league for the
whole of the British Commonwealth).
Miss Goldie, wearing a modified beef-
eater’s hat in scarlet velvet with her
deep-green wool suit, was welcomed by
Mrs. Guy Bakewell (senior vice-president)
and Mrs. Robert Hamilton (vice-presi-
dent). Among those at the luncheon
were Mrs. Frank Hobill Cole, Mrs. J.
Buckland, Mrs. T. N. D. Stevens, Mrs.
H. Faull. Mrs. Norman McCaul, Mrs. S.
Phillips and Miss E. Brett.
# V V
Dame Mary Daly, chairman of the
women’s committee of the Yooralla
Crippled Children’s Appeal, was hostess
at an afternoon-tea party held at Menzies’
Hotel to celebrate a splendid achievement
—in four months her committee raised
£31,440 of the present total of £150,000.
Others at the official table were Mrs.
Maurice Askanasy (her husband is chair-
man of the appeal), Lady Selleck, Mrs.
W. K. Burnside (who raised over £lOOO
with a dinner-dance at Ciro’s), Mrs. Tom
Carlyon, Mrs. Eric Cottrell and Mrs.
Angus Jones. Also at the party were
sisters Mrs. W. McGowan and Mrs. Leo
Curtis (wearing smart veil-snoods), Mrs.
“Bing” Molyneux, Mrs. Dudley Peck,
Mrs. K. Hattam, Mrs. Desmond Holly-
wood and Mrs. A. A. Lord.
V V #
Carol Ann, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Raymond Price, came from the U.S. with
her parents in 1949, attending school at
The Hermitage, Geelong, and when the
family moved to Melbourne she became
a model. In 1955 she returned to
America, to become a buyer at Rich’s,
one of the largest stores in Atlanta,
Georgia. Recently she was married in
that city’s Cathedral of St. Phillip to Dr.
James Pruett, a resident M.O. in a
Louisiana hospital. In the absence of her
parents, who are still in Australia, her
grandmother, Mrs. D. W. Siddell, of Fort
Wayne, Indiana, and her sister and
brother-in-law, Mr. and Mrs. Robert
Croy, of Atlanta, received guests at the
wedding-reception, which was held at the
Atlanta Athletic Club.


him what they know and, with careful
editing, there emerges the most vivid
of portraits, with the additional
advantage that you also get a picture
of the very interesting people who are
being interviewed. The Brennan
recording makes not only a living
portrait but a most powerful and
moving drama.
Fortunately for the rival arts, the
tape-recording turns out, on inspection
of the A.B.C. script for the forthcom-
ing broadcast of Thompson’s Miles
Franklin symposium—he has also
completed one on Hugh McCrae —a
bit thin: regarded as literature. People
take a long time to get to the point in
conversation. The biographer would
need to condense these anecdotes and
to go deeper into character; the play-
wright to dramatise some episode that
would bring out the depth.
But this tape-recording, though
lighter, should play as well as the
Brennan, for the naturalness of the
conversation is part of its appeal in a
broadcast, and it does give a most
fetching and accurate picture of Miles
Franklin, her life and her works.
George Farwell, incidentally, thinks
that her diaries, now held at the
Mitchell Library, might turn out to be
her most important piece of writing . . .
though they would have to be good to
out-do “My Brilliant Career.”
Here —Nancy Keesing’s contribution
to the script—is a sample of the per-
sonal pictures it contains:—
The first time I met her I went
to her house one night with Rex
Ingamells and Roland Robinson.
And it was a very wet night and we
went to Carlton station and I sup-
pose it wasn’t more than about a
ten-minute walk from the station
and we scurried along in the rain
and we arrived there and she greeted
us quite warmly and told Rex and
Roland exactly what she thought of
them “allowing a poor fragile
female to walk in this frightful rain,”
all of ten minutes from the station
to her house.
So she took my coats and things
and insisted on putting me down
bang! beside a rather hot fire and
grate. And every time I made to
move she refused to allow this be-
cause she said that I’d get frozen
stiff. (This was all part of a dig at
the men, of course, for not having
taken a taxi.) And she had—she
always did whenever I saw her —a
little tea-party.
Well, I think she was one of the
sort of people who would have a
tea-party—she was a real lady—if
that’s not a horrible term to use.
She was, of course, not well-off, but
when she had people to the house
she liked a certain amount of
ceremony. And on this occasion as
it was my first visit to the house I
was given the Waratah Cup. This
Waratah Cup was a prototype that
was made by Doultons, I think,
who were trying to use some Aus-
tralian motifs in decorating their
china.
I don’t know how she came by
it, but occasional guests were given
this, and you drank your tea out
of it having heard the story of its
value, not enjoying the tea at all
because you were so terrified in
rather a small room with things
coming and going, you were going
to drop the Waratah Cup and be the
one who used it—for the last time.
And then you had to write in a
book which was written-in by people
who had had their tea out of the
Waratah Cup.
And I’m not sure that it was on
that occasion or another occasion
that we were there, that she had her
mantelpiece decorated with little test-
tubes full of earth of different colors
—very bright colors,, that someone
had brought her from Central Aus-
tralia. She was absolutely thrilled
with this because she was so wildly
and devotedly Australian.
Others taking part in the symposium
include Mrs. Bridle (who knew Miles
Franklin in her childhood), P. R.
Stephensen, Colin Roderick, David
Martin, Muir Holburn. lan Mudie,
Ray Mathew, Roland Robinson,
Beatrice Davis and Margaret Trist.
The broadcast will be from 2BL,
Sydney, on Friday, June 26, at 8.30 p.m.
Moyes on Cricket
A. G. Moyes’s Australian Cricket:
a History (Angus and Robertson) tells
the story of cricket in every Austra-
lian State from its beginnings, in all
cases very modest ones. Thereafter is
given, in outline, an account of all
inter-State cricket played, and of every
visit by representative teams both to
and from Australia up to the end of
the 1957-58 season. The Board of
SOUTHMOST TWELVE
Now at the year’s midnight turned
towards dawn,
the stroke of the southmost twelve deep
in your ears,
you must not count upon the swing of
the stars
to bring you back to sunrise. Light with-
drawn
could sink past all renewal if logic gropes
at truth beyond astronomy’s telescopes.
For that the sun rose every dawn of the
world
from waves or crags or desert and rose to
east
leaves all things possible still, this thing
not least :
a western sun tomorrow in the uncurled
petals of morning. And though natural
law
be urged against the argument there’s no
flaw.
Nor do l speak of miracle but what’s
plain
of any so-called law traced out in dust
by man’s or nature’s fingers: that it just
records things measured such as list of the
moon
derelict on time’s drift, or takes a glance
at temporary truth afloat on chance;
and nowhere says day certainly shall break
or the shocked sky, uprooted and flung
hence,
would flare and fuse all that was order
once
and yet not flout the mindless law, but
make
its wheels the wrecker. Let light come or
not,
it is time we struck a peace with our own
thought . ..
Meant thus : peace went which in a cruder
age
bull’s-blood, or honey mixed with wine
and spilt,
ensured for skin-clad hinds who held
men’s guilt
called winter on them; but one might
assuage
research that freezes reason and thaw both
with warmth in wisdom, near-half of all
truth.
Myself, I never liked logic’s rope, the
theme
that step should tie on step. Why, as to
that,
your first blind leap at premise can fall
as flat
as mine where stones to tread on fail mid-
stream ;
and no man lives by logic or could
suppose
there’s logic in the fact that live he does.
But the cold cause-and-effect of mass and
force,
of harnessed action under a shackled sky,
the powerlessness of will, l still deny,
who cross the road at choice or hold my
course
and tell the gong of the clock that bangs
this beat
not rope, and better than engine, leads my
feet.
Creature of instinct, I share still the faith
of beast and bird, and call intelligence
knowledge of what l touch — what’s bared
to sense
as real itself, real in what lies beneath—
and doubt not of tomorrow opening
where
the twang of this vibration thins in air.
N.s.W.
ROBERT. D. FITZGERALD


THusic for THohini
BHABANI BHATTACHARYA
The noted Indian novelist tells of a young giri’s life in a village which is ruled by her
st™ct Hindu mother-in-law. “In a splendid novel that may take rank with Pearl Buck’s
THE GOOD EARTH, Mr. Bhattacharya gives us modern. India.” ( Chicago Tribune.)
17/6 (post lOd.)
AVAILABLE FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS AND . . .
Angus & Robertson Ltd.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Control and Australian umpires are
also discussed.
The complete story of Australian
cricket possibly requires the printing
in full of the scores of every first-class
match ever played here—an obvious
impossibility in one book. In fact,
only three or four games are set down
in full, one being the first Test to be
played between England and Aus-
tralia, another the first game ever
played between an English team and
a colonial side in Australia (XVIII
of Victoria against Stephenson’s XI
in January, 1862).
This reviewer detected only one
error, apart from a couple of mis-
spellings of names—it was Hassett, not
Harvey as stated, who made 102 in
Australia’s second innings in the
fourth 1951-52 Test against the West
Indies, the Test which had possibly
the most dramatic ending of all post-
war Tests.
On Lindwall Moyes makes an error
of judgment—justifiable enough, how-
ever. Lindwall’s “omission from the
Australian team to tour South Africa
in 1957-58,” says Moyes, “made it
clear that his majestic career had
finished.” Wrong —as proved by his
recall to the Australian side in the
fourth Test against England last
season, and his subsequent setting of
a new wicket-taking record.
Moyes has few pretensions to style,
and ne has a tendency to repeat some
facts unnecessarily; for instance every
time a Victorian batsman, Baring, is
mentioned it is stated that he “could
hit hard.” On the other hand, he does
not elucidate enough when he men-
tions that the 1925 Victorian side
included “Keith Miller, a youngster of
promise.” This is not, of course, the
better-known Keith Miller, who was
“a youngster of promise” in the Vic-
torian side some fourteen or so years
later. It could mislead; anyway, the
1925 player spelt his name Millar.
It is not a book to be read straight
through, but is a first-class record-
book; possibly as comprehensive an
outline of Australian cricket as could
be put in one book. A similar plan
might well be attempted for other
major sports, such as tennis, boxing
and the various brands of football.
More from Joyce
Those who thought that the Joyce
barrel had by now been pretty well
scraped clean will be surprised—some-
times pleasantly so—by The Critical
Writings of James Joyce (Faber), a
collection of 57 items ranging from
student essays, book-reviews for a
Dublin newspaper, articles and
lectures about Ireland published or
delivered in Trieste, letters to editors,
and such talked-of pieces as the youth-
ful review of Ibsen’s “When We Dead
Awaken,” the pamphlet attacking the
parochialism of the Irish national
theatre, the Swiftian poems “The Holy
Office” and “Gas From a Burner,”
and the late-period “From a Banned
Writer to a Banned Singer.”
As the editors, Richard Ellmann
and Ellsworth Mason, remark in the
introduction, “Not all of them are first-
rate, but some of them are, and all of
them help to make Joyce’s develop-
ment less elusive.” Written over a
period of forty years, they also show
some unfamiliar Joyces: the facile-
minded student, the icily competent
reviewer, the biting political observer,
the astringently vivid journalist and
the sly lecturer.
But the chief pleasure of the book
is the editing. Thorough and impartial,
Ellmann and Mason have traced and
checked every Joyce quotation and
allusion, revealing errors of memory
and transcription (themselves often
revealing) and, with their acute intro-
ductory notes, have placed and
analysed each item in such a way as
to develop a kind of mosaic biography
of Joyce’s aesthetic theories.
Reviewed Briefly
Solitaire: Kay Dick (Heinemann).
This is a fine-drawn yam about four
people and their relationships, padded
out by explanations of how the story
got itself written. Paris in the winter
is the setting. Neatly designed but
threadbare.
• * * *
Best Detective Stories: Edited by
Edmund Crispin (Faber). Rex Stout,
H. C. Bailey, the John Dickson Carr
of “The Gentlemen from Paris,” and
maybe Ellery Queen, might be undis-
puted in most “best ten” detective-
story selections; but many other names
could be preferred to Michael Innes,
Roy Vickers, Anthony Gilbert, Harry
Kemelman, Charlotte Armstrong and
Edmund Crispin himself. Still, the
unusual choice assures the addict a
good chance of never having seen
some of these stories before, and as
Crispin says in his introduction, they
are all examples of genuine detection.
* * * *
Painting For All: Mervyn Levy
(Odhams). The author is an artist and
an art-correspondent for the 8.8. C.
With chapters contributed by R. O.
Dunlop, R.A., Colin Moss and Stephen
Bone and lavish illustrations, both
ancient and modern, in color and black-
and-white, the book discusses the
techniques of drawing, oils and water-
color and the history of art in a way
that makes it equally useful for the
amateur painter or the reader who
simply wants to learn something about
art.
* * * *
Night of Wrath: York Smith
(Macdonald). Opens with a dead man
and a packet of pork sausages; they
vanish while the private-eye, one
Chaloner, goes to phone the police.
The beautiful, hard-eyed owner of the
flat comes in, and is no sooner left
alone than she, also, is assassinated.
She tums-out to have been a fashion-
model, and then the trail leads to
feelthy pictures . . .
* * * *
Rivers and Man: Robert Brittain
(Longmans). The author is an Ameri-
can who has travelled considerably
and become fond of rivers; but
the analysis of their economic im-
portance seems a bit obvious. He. is
more informative on the gradual
development of Egypt from conquest
of the dangerous Nile marshes, and
on the evolution of the river as an
irrigator, a grinder of bread, and a
general source of power. A plate of
the 70ft. water-wheel at Hama, Syria,
is most impressive, and so are his
descriptions and diagrams of shaduf
water-lifters, treadle-run pot-wheels,
treadmill bucket - chains, tympanum
water-drums, ingenious norias that use
the same push of river to fill and lift
water-bottles, etc.


THE MUTUAL LIFE AND CITIZENS’ ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED ( incorporated in n.s.w.
The weather at a glance...
from the M.L.C.
Weather Beacon
!■■■■■■■■■■ llBllllllllllllllltiftllllllllllllllllfllllll
■is
1111
IB
IBIHIHW
11111111111
lIUIIIIIII
lIIINIIIII
liiiiSi
SliliSS
IS!!!
!
sEE
■IIIIIIM
iniiiiiiH
mnniiii
/ u
t \
: / 1 t
iillS
SIIBIBH ill I
Si!
11111118
\m
■llllB
si
iiiiHia
18811118
lIHBIIIR
111111
188811
■min
i man
an
in
mil
818111111
mini
I
7
IS
m
i
m
m
TEMPERATURE FORECAST
When the lights are:
Rising- Becoming - warmer
Falling - Becoming cooler
Steady No change
WEATHER FORECAST
WHITE:
Steady .. Fine
Two Sec. Flashes Clearing
Half Sec. Flashes Windy
RED:
Steady Rain
Two Sec. Flashes Change developing
Half Sec. Flashes, Strong winds and rain
The forecasts come from the Weather Bureau
hy remote control. The signals are for short-
range forecasts and are adjusted at 6 a.m.,
noon, 4.30 p.m., 10 p.m. and when a change
is imminent. Keep an M.L.C. Weather Beacon
Signal Guide handy. Write or telephone for
the pocket-sized card.
THE M.L.C.
hd
