

The Bulletin
Moon Over the Potomac— page s
Wednesday, September 23, 1959
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia, for transmission by post as a newspaper.
"One and two halves to the Tivoli, please."


BOOKHUNTER, Box 2611, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find It for you—flctioa,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
A NOVEL OF MELBOURNE
Balzac is mentioned once or twice
in Leonard Mann’s Andrea Caslin
(Cape)—the heroine is a librarian, and
well-read—and there is something
Balzacian about the novel in the ease,
assurance and authenticity of its setting
in a country town; in the picture of the
Caslins, decayed gentlefolk oppressed
by poverty; and, particularly, in Andrea
Caslin’s struggle out of poverty
towards, if not a Balzacian miserliness,
at any rate to a grasp of financial
affairs that gives her great power and
influence in her native town. She is
the “Duchess of Campford,” the
“Empress” even, by the time the book
ends. Andrea Caslin is the sort of
woman old Grandet’s daughter might
have become —if she had been a differ-
ent kind of daughter.
Again when the story moves to Mel-
bourne in the middle chapters, for
Andrea to make her fortune, it recalls
other Balzac novels—“A Bachelor’s
Establishment,” for instance—in its
picture of business affairs and in its
insistence on money as one of the
mainsprings of human conduct.
But Balzac is a large name; and,
coming nearer home, the sort of story
of which “Andrea Caslin” most
strongly reminds me is “Quartet,” by
the South Australian novelist Leslie
Mellor—who also, a good many years
ago, was published by Cape. It hasn’t
Mellor’s suavity of style, which was
based on Conrad, but (with a few
lapses) it is like “Quartet” in the
smooth steadfastness of the writing, in
its queerness—there is an incest-story
in it, half-brother and half-sister—and,
especially, in a sort of heavy, quiet
sensuality, not at all unattractive, in
the portrait of the heroine. Leonard
Mann has indeed done remarkably well
in looking so dispassionately and
sympathetically on Andrea Caslin; so
that, ruthless and even repellent
though she often is, she yet remains
attractive.
But though these names come to
mind, as also could Faulkner’s for the
dark incest-story and the pictures of
Andrea’s blind, malevolent old mother
and Andrea herself in desolate and
half-mad old age, it is not really like
any other novel, but stands firmly on
its own feet. Long a distinguished
figure in the Australian novel, Leonard
Mann is here writing with more
imagination, with increased strength
and maturity and with an admirable
certainty of direction.
There is no floundering about the
book; nothing amateurish. It gives the
impression, rare enough in Australian
fiction, that the author knew exactly
what he wanted to say and, without
ever straying from the point, though
incidentally you get a broad picture of
Melbourne and the Victorian country-
side and a financial history of Aus-
tralia from the early 1900’s to the
present day, has said it. Obviously he
has wanted to do this one thing: to
show the young, poor, bitter, pain-
fully shy Andrea Caslin developing,
chiefly through a love-affair with a
politician who deserts her, into a
powerful, polished and unscrupulous
woman of affairs, caring only for her
illegitimate son and for the recapture
of her ancestral estate: and that, the
single, powerful stroke of portraiture,
from youth to her final destruction,
he has achieved unfalteringly.
I suppose it is true in a sense, as
has been said, that the novel is melo-
dramatic; and I must say that, after
the absorbing chapters about Andrea’s
rise to fortune and her love-affairs, I
was myself a bit disconcerted when,
late in the novel, the incest drama came
along—not because of any moral
objections to the theme, which is as
old as Euripides, but simply because
it is old enough to be shop-worn. An
unmarried mother who brings up her
son in ignorance of his father’s
identity so that he falls in love with
his half-sister—we’ve had that one
before. It is old-hat even in Shak-
speare.
But then Leonard Mann does
manage to vary the stock situation by
making both the mother and the son
well aware that the marriage, which
nevertheless takes place, is incestuous.
Also, though there is not much space
for them so late in the novel, he
manages to make credible and
intriguing characters of the son and
his wife. And as to melodrama—
you can say that, if you want to say
something disparaging, about any
novel that deals with the depths, com-
plexities and violences of human
passion.
It seems to me that, instead of
criticising the novel for its melodrama,
it is more profitable to note its differ-
ence from the general run of Aus-
tralian novels. Most of our novels fall
into one or another of three well-
worn categories: the epic; the docu-
mentary; or the sociological. You
can get good and lasting work, of
course, in all these categories; but here,
in “Andrea Caslin,” is a novel that
simply sets out to tell, with valid
characterisation and a valid setting, an
interesting human story. If there is
some underlying sociological thesis in
it about the evil of money, it never
becomes obtrusive. And that, simply
to tell an interesting human story,
always seems to me to be closer to the
proper function of the novel than any
of the other approaches, however
triumphantly they may sometimes work
out. Certainly, because of this clear
development of a single dramatic
theme, because of the extraordinary
character of Andrea Caslin and
because of the natural human interest
in watching somebody make a lot of
money, I found the novel exceptionally
and admirably readable.
D. S.
Eliot's Producer
For many readers the main interest
of Henry Sherek’s autobiography Not
in Front of the Children (Heinemann)
would be that he produced Eliot’s “The
Cocktail Party,” “The Confidential
Clerk” and “The Elder Statesman,”
and for this reason can show you
Eliot himself as few others can—or
will. He agreed to produce “The
Cocktail Party” at the Edinburgh
Festival when Eliot had written only
20 or 30 pages of it, and was invited
to the flat of Martin Browne, Eliot’s
friend and sort of private play-
producer:—
When I was introduced, horrified
distress was plainly visible on T. S.
Eliot’s face. He had probably never
seen a theatrical producer or met
anybody looking remotely like me
before, and his expression showed
clearly that he hoped fervently that
he would never have to again.
But after the first night in London
of “The Confidential Clerk” he had
progressed considerably. At a private
room at the Savoy, Eliot
sat between my two leading ladies,
Margaret Leighton and Isabel Jeans.
They were wearing exquisite gowns
specially made for the occasion, and
both looked ravishingly glamorous.
As I was sitting opposite, I leaned
over the narrow table and whis-
pered to Eliot:
“The fruits of victory, eh, Tom?”
He did not seem displeased.
Still, he handles the greatest living
poet with the circumspection of a play-
ful Great Dane for a hedgehog; and
Eliot has cause to unbend for him.
After the Edinburgh success of “The
Cocktail Party” no London manager
would produce the play, if only be-
cause good reviews at the Festival are
“a sure sign that you will have a flop
in a commercial theatre.” So Sherek
took the play to New York —and his
account of how he persuaded the
Sunday editor of the “New York
Times” to run a page on it shows that
successes are not completely contrived
on stage. Then, taking the play back
to its first London production, Sherek
(i Continued on page 58)


Prometheus said:
“This is strictJif
for the birds!"
A mild comment in the
circumstances. Chained to a rock
with vultures pecking at him the
prospects of a comfortable and
carefree old age seemed pretty dim.
V
These days, of course, people arrange with the A.M.P. to
guarantee that on retirement the money will be there to enable them
to really enjoy a carefree comfortable old age
Get your A.M.P. man to tell you about
group or individual retirement plans.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
GENERAL MANAGER: M. G. BUTTFIELD
Every A.M.P. member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by funds exceeding £400,000,000 which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.
P23C9


The Bulletin
Wednesday, Sept. 23, 1959
Vol. 80—No. 4154
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 436-440 King William St.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack . Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
TWO KINDS OF TRUTH
TT is plain that while the United States
Government wishes to treat the visit
of Khrushchev like that of any other
head of State, one in which the visitor
shall be treated as a Presidential guest
aloof from local politics and making
no attempt to bypass the Administra-
tion in his contacts with the public,
Khrushchev elects otherwise.
From the first, Khrushchev has
shown a tendency to compete with
the President for attention on public
occasions, and the results which he
wishes to achieve through his contacts
with the people are illustrated by his
wish, unprecedented for such occa-
sions as his journey to America, to
hold public meetings in various cities
to make a direct appeal to the
American electors.
One would almost imagine from
his prospective programme as set-out
before he left Moscow for Washington
that he intended to become a candi-
date for the Presidency instead of a
guest of the Republic.
The launching of the moon-sputnik
on the eve of his departure for
Washington, his present to the Presi-
dent of a miniature, his behavior at
the airport on arrival, are all in the
best tradition of ballyhoo. And the
entirely inaccurate accounts published
in the Moscow official press of the
enraptured welcomes of the Washington
crowds illustrate clearly what is ex-
pected of him in his own home-town.
The speeches at the first White
House banquet after Khrushchev’s
arrival establish both the tone of the
visit and the nature of the problems
which beset each side in the discus-
sions.
Mr. Eisenhower told his guest that,
“because of our strength and of our
importance in the world, it is vital that
we understand each other.” He
remarked that “skilful debate is not
enough; we must make it our common
purpose.... that we develop for each
other the maximum of truth and fact
so that we may better lead —between
us —this world into a better oppor-
tunity for peace and prosperity.”
Khrushchev failed to notice this part
—the essential part —of the Eisenhower
speech. His theme was that “the U.S.
and U.S.S.R. were much too strong to
quarrel with each other.” Therefore
a quarrel must be avoided because not
only would the two countries “suffer
colossal damage, but the other coun-
tries would also be involved in a world
shambles.” Phrases like this trip off
his tongue regularly.
TAISAGREEMENT on main prin-
ciples was well illustrated by the
second part of Khrushchev’s speech.
The emphasis laid by Eisenhower on
the need for truth and fact-finding was
entirely lacking from Khrushchev’s
statement, and no doubt he was
puzzled by the Washington viewpoint,
as most Russians are. Truth is not a
virtue in Communist philosophy;
neither is honesty as it is expressed
in the West. As a devotee of Marxism-
Leninism, the Russian representative
naturally subscribes to the Leninist
dictum that what is right is what for-
wards the policy of the State. It is
right —vide Lenin’s “Left-wing Com-
munism” —“if necessary to practise
trickery, to employ cunning, to resort
to illegal methods, to sometimes over-
look or conceal the truth”... .and to
carry on the work of Communism “by
every and all means.”
Communist policy has been soaked
with this doctrine in the international
field. Anything has been right with
Russia iff' it forwarded the world-
revolution —rape of little States, arm-
ing of quarrels of other nations to pro-
duce revolution, flagrant and consistent
breaches of agreement in respect of
treaties, all of which when made with
the U.S.S.R. have proved mere scraps
of dirty paper since 1945.
As Khrushchev made clear, more-
over. it is not the principle of peace
that matters; peace is an objective
which the Communist believes can
only be obtained by world-conquest
and the suppression of every other
ideology and of every class of human-
being not approved by the Communist
dictators. It is a convenience of
government, not something for the
universal good.
That the_ theories of Marxism-
Leninism are not dead, or even asleep,
at Washington banquets, then, is
shown by a close study of the
ambiguities of Khrushchev’s speech.
For while the Communist does not
regard truth as a virtue, he sometimes
uses it to deceive. Time and again
Russian leaders have made statements
about their brutal intentions so fan-
tastic that they were unbelievable, but
they have turned out true. Thus it
would be worth while to know the
exact meaning of the dictator’s asser-
tion that the U.S.S.R. was going
presently to be richer than the United
States, and “after all, we are going to
do this by our own forces —by our
own strength.” Most of the access
of strength of Russia has been gained
by sucking into its body the abilities
and know-how of smaller nations —the
cream of German and Baltic scientists
captured during the war, the cultures of
the surrounding nations of the Baltic
and Eastern Europe.
It is quite true that the U.S.A. and
the U.S.S.R. have “different social
systems”; that the Communists believe
their doctrine of force and repression
is better, while the West believes in
free enterprise. But when Khrushchev
goes on to say: “But surely we should
not bring quarrels out onto the arena
of open struggle... .Let history judge
which is right,” the bear-claw shows
through his glove.
TSfHAT have the Communist parties
of the world, organised by the
Soviet Government through the Comin-
tern originally and now directly con-
trolled by the Communist Party of the
U.S.S.R. (in effect the rulers of Russia’s
bloc), been doing all this year if not
fighting the non-Socialist systems “on
the arena of open struggle”?
In order to understand the dangers
inherent in taking the wily tourist at
his face-value, it is necessary only to
resort to the official translation of his
own book recently released in the
United States.
While his spoken word is going out
to tell that “surely we should not bring
quarrels out onto the arena of open
struggle,” his written word in his book
is boasting: “Our principal weapon is
Marxism-Leninism. We shall defeat
the capitalist world by using this
powerful ideological weapon, rather
than the hydrogen-bomb.” And he
makes it plain that peace can only
come through the universal applica-
tion of Socialism —as plain as
Marxism-Leninism makes it that those
who oppose the forward march of
Socialism must be crushed and
annihilated as has happened to the
hapless oppositions of China, the
Baltic countries, Poland, Hungary,
Tibet and Vietnam. The Kremlin and
the West do not talk the same language.
Khrushchev writes in his book that
the “Soviet Union has never waged
any aggressive wars—such wars are
foreign to the very nature of our
State.” And this is true in the Com-
munist argot, because no war, however
brutal and unprovoked, can, under the
Marxist-Leninist doctrine, be adjudged
aggressive if it is designed to destroy
the opponents of Socialism who resist
being engulfed.
One of the headaches of Washing-
ton is obviously to get understanding
as to what constitutes “truth and
fact.” Marxist-Leninist brand? Or the
good, old-fashioned Western brand?


MOON OVER THE POTOMAC


PLAIN ENGLISH
Moscow's Marco Polo
Khrushchev’s journeyings through the
United States, if they are serving no
other purpose, are teaching world leaders
more about him and the problem of
dealing with him than they ever knew
before.
While President Eisenhower and his
Department of State are behaving with
hospitable dignity, their visitor resembles
a potentate out of the pre-Christian era
rather than from the ultra-modern
world which he claims to represent.
If he had brought a few dancing-girls
in his luggage as a present for his hosts
he might easily have been mistaken for
an Assyrian king visiting Egyptian
Heliopolis in its prime.
He has the same unpredictable moods
as the tyrants of old, and leaves the
feeling that he would like to flay victims
who offend his t®uchiness. He does not
suffer gladly mere mayors and newspaper-
correspondents who dare to disagree with
him or suggest that he is not a world
dictator. He has the same habit of
applauding himself with hand and
tongue . . . “I, the Prime Minister of
the great Soviet Union.” He has also
the same habit of boasting about his
might and his international morals, not
with any real belief that anybody takes
him at face-value, but because it is part
of the general formula of royal pro-
cedure in the tyrannical Asiatic circles
in which he moves.
Like all tyrants, he has shown him-
self sober one moment, a schizophrenic
in a passion the next, completely unpre-
dictable except that in all incidents there
is an ominous and threatening quality
about him and a paradoxical uncertainty
of mood which makes it difficult to take
him seriously except as a paranoic would-
be conqueror applying guile to bewilder
and cajole his opponents into weakness.
His offer to the U.N. Assembly was
more of an alibi than a plan if the actions
of his own and his associated countries
within the Communist bloc are read into
its context. Time and time again the
proposal for disarmament has been
debated by the councils of the nations.
Sometimes the Russians have shown a
sullen resistance, sometimes a disarming
frankness, until the point of practicality
is reached.
Then, on every occasion—there has
been no exception—they have suddenly
buttoned themselves up, raised sometimes
absurd pretexts and obstacles which they
know must wreck the scheme, and retired
growling to their dens.
Generally it has been discovered that
while they have been dispensing soft
words in London or Geneva or Moscow
they have been cooking-up some new
scheme for aggressive advances and
using the peace-talks as cover, as has
happened in Asia while the recent
Geneva meetings have been taking place.
Disarmament in four years is a con-
ception designed to lure the unthinking
and the unknowledgeable. Russia and
its allies cannot disarm on the
scale proposed by Khrushchev. To
disarm would mean dissolving not
only the Red Army and Navy, but
the huge security forces by dint of which
the Kremlin’s dictatorship is maintained.
It would mean holding East Europe by
moral force alone. Without the 29 Russian
divisions in East Germany and Hungary
and other East European countries, and
without an armed Czechoslovak Govern-
ment, the Soviet Union’s alliances would
break-up, even if disintegration did not
go further. Unless the Ukraine is a
changed place in the last few years, the
Russian hold on its 34 millions would
be tenuous if there were no armed force
to hold them down. Red China is in
much the same position.
However, the scheme should not be
dismissed. Discussion should be con-
tinued until the mailed fist shows through
the fur on the Kremlin’s glove, as it
almost inevitably will when the summit
conference, which now seems a certainty,
gets to grips with the practical problems
associated with complete disarmament.
Cahill’s Budget
Although New South Wales is not yet
in the same category as the State of
Monaco, which derives almost the whole
of its revenue from gambling, the State’s
coffers have a vested interest in gambling
that is unhealthily high. And it is
symptomatic of the preoccupation of the
Cahill Government with gambling that
the only two major changes in taxation
in this year’s Budget are concerned with
poker-machines and greyhound-racing.
During the year the one-armed bandits,
particularly the 2s. variety, have come
in for a lot of criticism through their
propensity for swallowing pay-envelopes.
This has moved Premier and Treasurer
Cahill to action, and he has doubled the
licence-fees on the 2s. machines ; clubs
will now pay a fee of £SOO on each of
their first five 2s. machines and £7OO for
each additional one. The idea, according
to Cahill, is to discourage “the increasing
tendency to install this type of machine,
and it is hoped that the relatively heavy
rate of tax imposed will reduce the
number of these machines in operation.”
This pious little hope takes the railway-
refreshment-room bun for tongue-in-
cheek double-talk ; in almost the same
breath Cahill explained that the increased
revenue (£125,000 this year and £250,000
in a full year) would be used for the
building of “special low-rental housing
for aged persons.” The removal of the
tax on “the dogs” is presumably to help
a struggling “industry.”
Apart from these two items, there
was little that was not routine in the
N.S.W. Budget. Revenue, apart from
income-tax reimbursement and Common-
wealth grants, will be £38.7 million, an
increase of £1.3 million on last year;
stamp- and probate-duties and land-tax
will provide most of this. Education will
account for £46.9 million (up £3 million)
of the State’s expenditure and health
and hospitals £27.8 million (up £2.2
million).
Transport services will again be up to
their knees in red-ink ; the railways are
expected to lose £6 million and trams and
buses £2,294,000. Improvement is
expected in revenue from carriage of
goods and livestock, but passenger-
earnings are expected to decline.
Cahill is budgeting for a surplus of
£57,938. Estimated surplus for the last
financial year was £30,755 and the actual
surplus was £42,542.
Farewell the Hurricane
[By Gardon WebbJ
The final appearance of the Hurricanes
and Spitfires over London must have
brought back vivid memories to those
gallant pilots who flew them nearly 20
years ago. They were regarded as cousins
—the Spitfire the more glamorous, but
the Hurricane a faithful friend held in
respect by all who flew her.
During the first year of World War
11, Britain was. in desperate need of a
formidable fighter, and it was the Hawker
Hurricane that came to the Very
often outgunned, most times out-
numbered, the sturdy Hurricane gave out
more than it took.
After the Battle of Britain the top-
brass were looking around for a fighter-
bomber. It had to edge - out over the
Channel, sniff-out likely targets along
the French coast, and drop its bombs
where they would do the most damage.
This called for low-level bombing, and
the Hurricane was the logical choice.
Australians took part in many of these
sorties and* saw the Hurriebomber out
in Great Britain as high-speed aircraft
replaced it.
Then once more the Air Chiefs were
looking over their varied armory. This
time they wanted an aircraft for accurate
pinpoint-bombing of jungle targets in
Burma. Again they decided they could
do no better than call on the trusty
Hurricane, now practically jobless. And
it was soon found that no other machine
could fill the position so admirably as
the Hurricane—the aircraft that was
“finished.”
At Palel airstrip in Burma the ground-
staff would watch the Hurriebombers
attacking bunker positions on ridges
above Imphal Valley. That’s how close
the fighting was. The Japs were ham-
mering at the gateway to India then,
and heavy fighting was going on to keep
them out of Manipur State.
But gradually the Nips were driven
back into the Chin Hills and the battle
for Tiddim began. It had been fought
so many times before that the local in-
habitants could never be certain which
force was in occupation. Finally, the
Fourteenth Army, headed by General
(now Field - Marshal Sir William) Slim
pushed the Japs back—ably aided and
abetted by the Hurricane. The aircraft
that was supposed to have been “finished”
two years before!
Then in 1943 Mountbatten declared,
“There will be no monsoon.” General
Pluvius didn’t take much notice of the
Supremo, however ; Burma still got its
usual fall of 100 to 400 inches during
the “wet.” But the Hurrie boys obeyed
their commander ; they were called out
all through the monsoon to give close


support to the fighting, forgotten Four-
teenth, caving-in bunker positions and
strafing Japs in their foxholes.
'As in Europe, newer and faster air-
craft began to take over many of the
jobs the Hurricane had performed so
well. Heads began to shake and agree
that the Hurricane was “finished.” To
many of us it was a sad occasion. This
September, 20 years after World War II
began, there was a brief moment of
triumph to find those who escaped the
scrap-pile taking the air for a final salute.
Enter, Comets
Last Saturday morning 8.0.A.C.’s de
Havilland Comet 4 inched down Mascot
runway, stood for a minute or two
quivering with the 10,5001 b. static-thrust
of its four Rolls-Royce engines, and
then, with 63 press-, radio- and TV-
representatives inside, nosed powerfully
forward and rose into the air in an
almost vertical ascent.
Soon Sydney and its surrounding
elephant-hide sea were far below ; the
plane kept climbing, and at Yass it was
38,000 ft. up. Over a glass of champagne
one could note the comfortable seating
and the absence of excessive noise: the
only sound is a faint high-pitched hum.
Cruising-speed is around 500 m.p.h.;
wingspan 115 ft., length 111 ft. 6in.
Although this courtesy-flight lasted only
an hour —to Canberra and back—the
plane carries enough fuel to stay in the
air, with capacity payload, for six hours.
From November 1 Comets will link
Australia and Britain in about 36 hours ;
first service is planned to leave London
on November 1 and Sydney on Novem-
ber 4. The Comets will replace the
present four Britannia jet-prop, services.
The New Postages
[From Canberra]
Of all the Government critics of the
new postal and telephone charges, only
one —Malcolm McColm, from Queens-
land—had the courage of his convictions
and refused to vote for the legislation
in Parliament.
He didn’t go to the extent of crossing
the floor of the House and voting against
it, but he did abstain from voting.
In sharp contrast to McColm were
Messrs. Barnes and Bandit, C.P. members
from Queensland, and Sir Wilfred Kent
Hughes, Victorian Liberal, who were
among the most vocal of the critics, but
who, when the chips were down, took
their place with the strength and voted
for the new legislation.
Another critic, N.S.W. Liberal and
former Works Minister Allen Fairhall,
was out of Canberra when the vote was
taken.
It now turns out that for a month—
from October 1 to November I—airmail1 —airmail
letters inside Australia will cost Bd., a
penny more than at present.
P.M.G. Davidson, outlining the pro-
posals originally, said that when the
new flat-rate of sd. for letters was in-
troduced on October 1, they would be
carried by airmail when this would en-
sure speedier delivery.
However, this part of the plan doesn’t
come into operation until November 1.
So, in the intervening month, letters will
be sd. and the present 3d. surcharge for
airmail will apply.
Australian Manufacturing
Victoria, traditionally the sponsor of
Made-in-Australia weeks, gave last
week’s endeavor its usual friendly
response with flag-flying, newspaper-
space, window-shows and fine, brave
speeches; and the Premier, opening it,
soared rather high.
He predicted that Australia would
soon supply consumer-goods to Asia,
and, in a decade or two, capital-goods,
and he based this chiefly on the fact,
which is quite remarkable, that exported
Australian secondary products last year
were worth £l3O million.
Bolte’s optimism accords to some
extent with the forecast in July by J. N.
Kirby, chairman of the Industry
Advisory Council, which was set-up a
year ago to advise the Federal Govern-
ment on matters affecting the role of
manufacturing industry in the national
economy.
Mr. Kirby and his 21 businessmen on
the council predicted that the Australian
working-force would rise from four-
million to 5.3 million in the next decade
and that manufacturing, on present
trends, would have to provide employ-
ment for an additional 400,000; that
there were gaps in the Australian in-
dustrial structure, but the long-term
world - economy trend was strongly
expansionist, and that the Government
should not allow short-term falls, par-
ticularly in wool, to influence long-term
policies and investment programmes.
The Prime Minister was talking in
Sydney in somewhat similar robust terms
about Australian manufacturing at the
same time as the Victorian Premier.
Neither mentioned the restoration to top
production of Japan and Germany, with
better-quality goods than ever before
and considerably lower prices because
of working-conditions.
Many Australian industries have sub-
stantial unused capacity. In the year
ended February the total number of
people profitably employed rose by only
9700. This is not the rate Mr. Kirby
and his colleagues forecast, and to
achieve that, it may be necessary for the
Government to make greater concessions
to manufacturers, to abolish payroll-tax,
and to permit the return of more profits
to businesses for development.
The Hurseys
There has been jubilation among all
ranks of the unions, Right or otherwise,
over the fact that in the High Court’s
judgment in the Hursey cases it has
now been settled by five unanimous
judges that a union may make rules
which compel members to pay levies
designed to help political parties to
which they are diametrically opposed;
this even though those bodies are, like
the Communist party, allied with foreign
countries which refer to Australia as “the
enemy” (vide the Petrov Commission),
which keep no books and issue no
balance-sheets.
Mr. Cahill is so pleased that he pro-
poses to introduce fresh legislation to
confirm the idea, but to see at the same
time that the A.L.P. gets the lion’s share
of the spoils.
Mr. Healy, of the Watersiders, a mem-
ber of the Central Committee of the
Communist party, is naturally pleased
at the finding. It has not only been ruled
that he can compel members to pay the
levies, but it also has been ruled that
statutory preference to members of his
union, in effect, exists.
The Communist party, of course, is
the first to stick-up for the principle of
free speech and for action contrary to
the law and rules when the Communist
faith thus dictates. It is equally adamant
and vindictive in denying these rights to
others when they are opposed to Com-
munism.
The High Court held, in relation to
the claim for damages against the
Hobart Branch of the union and 14 of
its members, that “on the facts there
had been a combination amounting to
an actionable conspiracy of the kind best
recognised in law, namely, a combina-
tion to do unlawful acts, necessarily in-
volving injury. Those acts constituted
an interference with the plaintiffs’
personal liberty and freedom of move-
ment and an obstruction of their path
to their work.” This was putting the
situation with great judicial mildness.
Mr. Justice Fullagar, who wrote the
judgment with which his colleagues
agreed, thought that in the Tasmanian
Supreme Court judgment had been
rightly pronounced against the 14 indi-
vidual defendants and that the acts of
the branch within its local limits were
the acts of the Watersiders’ Federation,
which was also liable.
At the same time the court reduced
the £2500 damages granted by Sir
Stanley Burbury, C.J., to each of the
Hurseys to £IOOO, because, when it was
a matter of exemplary damages motives
might be important and the question
whether the Hurseys were legally mem-
bers of the union at the time of the
conspiracy—which the Hight Court now
held they were not —had a bearing on
the matter.
The unfortunate public, the shippers
of perishable produce, the shipping-
companies, the workers affected in other
industries, the Governments put to the
expense of subduing the strong-arm
men of the W.W.F. who were threaten-
ing the Hurseys, shouting insults to their
womenfolk and preventing them from
doing work which they were authorised
to do by a Commonwealth statutory
authority and which the Supreme Court
said they were lawfully entitled to
do as unionists, have no redress.
If any action is needed, it is a little
by the Commonwealth Government to
protect the political freedom of unionists
in the grip of Communist tyrannies and
to preserve the right of freedom of
political thought and action according
to the civilised conceptions of British
freedom.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
Tohnny Ray and the members of
** a famous chamber - music com-
bination arrived in Sydney on the same
plane, the sofci-singer first-class and the
musicians tourist: for the humble shall
be exalted and the mighty be put down
from the dear seats. —“Maitri.”
* * *
“Jay” (Sarawak): My wife was ques-
tioning son and heir on a geography-
lesson, the notes of which were in his
book. “What,” she said, “is an artesian-
bore?” “It is a special sort of pig, Mum,
that does not require much water ; it is
bred for use in the dry parts of Australia
where, because of the lack of water, it
would be uneconomical to run cattle,”
he reeled off —practically word for word
from his notebook, which began:
“Artesian Boar.”
* * *
“Colam”: A Brisbane driver pulled-
up at 6.15 a.m., strolled into what he
thought was a brightly-lit shop, slapped
his money on the counter, and loudly
demanded a packet of cigarettes. Cops
(it was a police-station) promptly booked
him for being in charge while under the
influence. Fined £4O, licence suspended
six. months.
❖ ♦> ♦>
“Sister Ellell” (abroad): In Greece I
was at some pains to fix the ancient
columns and pillars. Doric was simple
—as my legs felt as I disembarked from
the plane after two days ; just straight
up and down and no ornamentation!
lonic the same, but decorated with
curlicues at the top. Corinthian, similar,
but they are garlanded with acanthus-
leaves at the head (these leaves are seen
so often in actual growth in Greece).
And thus I disposed of them. Fetching-
up in the lovely City of Washington in
“Gahd’s Own Country,” where all the
“Of COURSE there's no one else , Wilfred —you don't think I'd be messing
about with YOU if there Was, do you?”
buildings are so eye-catching, I was on
a conducted tour of the capital and
spied more pillars. The guide saw me
looking at the carving atop the column
(definitely not curlicues or acanthus-
leaves) and said, “The flowers and leaves
are of the tobacco-plant; symbolic of
one of our greatest industries.”
*t*
“Kenyas”: “In my darker moments,”
remarked the English-master, marking
papers, “I wonder if my braves aren’t
more logical than the language. For
example, half the class asserts that the
plural for ‘mongoose’ is ‘mongeese,’ while
one brain maintains that the singular for
‘Portuguese’ is ‘Portugoose’.”
•)£♦ %
“Imperial 55”: The boss stood over
the desk of his senior typist and dictated
a letter. He broke off, amazed: “Hey!
You’re going grey! Aren’t you lucky!
When you go grey you can tint it all
those luscious colors, but when you’re
like me and go bald, what can you do?”
She’d never let him down, and she didn’t
then: “You could always let it for
advertising,” she suggested.
♦> *l* ♦>
“F.J.S.”: Brisbane radio-personality
“Bird Brain” Bert Robertson set a new
endurance-record for broadcasting when
he stayed at a microphone in a tem-
porary studio in the window of a city
store for 54 hours. “Bird Brain,” an
astute young man, raised over £6OO for
the Red Cross blood-transfusion service
in donations from his listeners. He had
an audience for most of the night.
Policemen, postal workers, cleaners, the
sleepless and the homeless called on him.
A news-vendor stayed in the studio and
played requests on a mouthorgan,
ranging from Billy Graham’s theme
“How Great Thou Art” to “Click Go
the Shears.” A second - year medical
student ran from Coorparoo (five miles)
at 3.30 a.m. to tell him how to beat
fatigue (close your eyes and hold ice-
cubes to the upper eyelids) and Lonesome
Sal, who conducts an opposition all-
night programme, called to offer good
wishes.'
BALLADE OF HAMS
“Christmas Hams Likely to be Short This
Year.” — headline.
When Wild West cowboys on TV
Have shot six villains more away
You’d think that soon there wouldn’t be
Enough to fight another day,
You’d feel assured enough to say
“This way an unrestricted sport,
And as the Dodo, so are they :
Hams, by Christmas, will be short
Alas, the Dodo-fallacy
Leads the philosopher astray ;
The Phoenix is the simile,
Born like the Ham in fire, to a
Repeated life, an encored play,
Deranged in reason to distort
The probable, for those who pray
Hams, by Christmas, will be short.
And yet the Sydney “Herald” —See ?
Not over-given to going gay,
Full of responsibility
As papers bought beneath its sway —
Deigns to emit a smoky ray
Of hope for us in the report
(Or do you think they’re falling fey ?):
“Hams, By Christmas, Will Be Short ”
THE ENVOY
Princess, O Flower of England’s May,
If you’re the televiewing sort,
You might see better if you stay —-
Hams, by Christmas, will be short
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


That article by Walter Brooks-
bank (B. 12/8/’59) on the Coast
Watchers set the bells ringing and “Ex-
R.S.M.” (B. 2/9/’59) gave them another
jangle. I think “Ex-R.S.M.” is incorrect
in stating that the book was withdrawn
from sale; I think it just ran-out. I
knew both Feldt and Brooksbank, and
I bought one of the first copies of the
book. Several friends borrowed it, and
when I was again asked for it my copy
was missing. I turned Melbourne inside-
out for a copy, and then Sydney—not
a hope ; out of print. Tyrrells took my
name and address and promised to keep
me in mind when a secondhand copy
came in. About nine months later a card
came from them: “A good secondhand,
quite clean, 11s. plus Is. 3d. postage,
do you still require a copy?” And it
was a good copy, too. The flyleaf was
inscribed: “To Sister J from the
Sydney Nappy Wash, wishing you a
Happy Xmas.” The book had not been
read, several of the pages being still
uncut, and its general condition as new.
On collecting it from the post I called
on my best friend to take him to lunch.
I greeted him with: “Do you remember
that book of mine, The Coast Watchers?”
He turned a deep red, dived into his
satchel and handed out my original copy
which he had discovered the night before
in his bookcase at home. Out at dinner
that night with some old friends I spoke
of my good fortune. Our host said he,
too, should hunt for a copy, as the
Director of Naval Intelligence was his
brother. Christmas was only two weeks
off and . . . sodium hypochlorite re-
moved all traces of Sister J and
the Nappy Wash, and friend Long re-
ceived a copy of The Coast Watchers for
Christmas.
Those who served at T.I. and Horn
Island will recall the nuisance-raids
which the Zeros carried-out there, raids
of which the Navy would always give
50min. warning, thanks to some
Watcher up Fly River way who
always reported the number of planes
and their course. One of the ratings who
received these w/t warnings, Roy Wood-
roff, was later put ashore from a sub-
marine on a northern island and not
seen or heard of again. An extremely
efficient telegraphist and a very nice lad
in every way. The Paluma, which the
Naval Board turned over to the Coast
Watchers had earlier been used to pick-up
A.I.F. boys who had escaped from
Singapore and had made Merauke in
Dutch New Guinea. Yes, those Coast
Watchers were in a class all by them-
selves, figuratively and literally, with a
special issue of special guts.
Wavy N.
♦:« *
“Zorok”: “Wear green you’ll wear
black!” Further to my par. on the men
from Marr’s (B. 16/9/’59), on the same
building-site I noticed a chap in a green
football-jersey with No. 13 on the back
walking jauntily across an unprotected
girder some 40ft. above the ground
seemingly unaware of the unlucky
associations of number and color.
“Matilda”: Developing appendicitis
during his first term at boarding-school,
he was taken to hospital and operated
on. Returned to school, he showed
me the beautiful transistor - radio his
parents had given him. As I admired it,
he said “My sister had her appendix out
“Modom desired a pair of matadors , no?"
last year. All she got was a pair of silk
stockings.”
❖ *>
“Sister Ellell” (abroad): On the last
stages of a round-the-world flight, it
was nice to be aboard the Kangaroo
again. I asked for The Bulletin —
and there it was! The latest edition
was available to me flying between Van-
couver and San Francisco at the same
time as it was being read by my relatives
outback in Broken Hill!
* .> »;«
“Narumee”: The ighklars store’s
floor - manager hadn’t been mentally
aberrated while dressing that morning,
even though he wore one elegant pig-
skin slipper, and one brown suede boot,
a pair of yellow leather gloves, and
three ties: lime-green, blue-and-pink
check, and blue-and-white stripe, draped
over his dark coat. It happened to be
the Saturday before Father’s Day ; the
assistants at the Gift Bar were all
female; and the clustering throngs of
daughters were all so vague about sizes
and colors!
* * *
“Tabba”: The Communist attack on
Laos has probably caused more un-
happiness in the A.B.C. than anywhere
outside Laos. I dips me lid to the com-
mentator who, amid the diphthagonised
groans of his fellows, soothed the ear
with: “The Lotion Army.”
❖ ♦> ♦>
“Yakipan”: The hatchet affair in the
Regent Theatre, Sydney, reminds me
that many Chinese and Europeans gave
up going to the cinema in Shanghai in
1948 after a party of soldiers wearing
the Nationalist uniform stormed in,
demanding free seats for the show. The
manager refused and, unable to get them
to leave, called in the civil police. The
riot-squad was quickly on the job, and
started shooting at the soldiers with
revolvers. The soldiers phoned the
military police, who came armed with
tommy-guns and grenades. It stopped
after a couple of grenades had been
thrown; the casualties were mainly
civil police. The audience had been on
the floor right from the start of the
battle; for a long while afterwards
movies had no appeal at all.
❖ ❖ *X*
“Margo”: The little elderly man with
a bald head and a bright-blue shirt
sitting opposite me in the restaurant
was shabby but clean; he placed a
worn briefcase on the floor beside him.
When the waitress came he pointed a
blunt finger at my grilled chops, potato-
chips and green-peas, and said “Same as
that.” When it arrived, he wired-in with
a will, but I noticed he ate the vegetables
and his bread-roll, but didn’t touch the
chops. When he had finished, he took a
brown-paper- bag out of his briefcase,
slipped the chops into it, put it back,
collected his ticket, and went away.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“One Spur”: A London reader has
asked me to explain the origin of my
pen-name. Well, it derives from a single
silver spur light and beautifully
fashioned, but more cruel than any you’d
see in use nowadays—which belonged to
the Empress Elizabeth of Austria. You
couldn’t be long in Vienna before you
got to know something about Franz
Josef’s consort. With her double share
of the beauty, wit and frenzy of the
“mad Wittelsbachs” she had been dis-
trusted by the Viennese, but loved by
the earthier Hungarians. It was her skill
as a horsewoman, from breaker to expert
of the haute ecole, that caught our
imagination. A noble and venerable


English lord renowned for his prowess
in the hunting-field gazed at her portrait
in the Kinsky palace we used as an
officers’ club. “Elizabeth of Austria!”
he said. “That’s her to the life. I saw
her when I was a boy in Ireland. She
was following the ‘Blazers’ and riding
as straight as an arrow.” High praise,
this, if you know the Galway country and
the standard of horsemanship needed
there. Four or five officers of the British
occupation-forces, connoisseurs of beauty,
blood and courage, formed an Elizabeth
Club, with the aim of finding out all
they could about the Empress (who was
assassinated by a nihilist at Geneva in
“You need glasses , maestro."
1898). They managed to borrow the
Empress’s spur from a nobleman of the
old Imperial court and placed it in the
centre of the table at a small private
dinner held on the outskirts of the
Wienerwald, where only one toast was
drunk: “The immortal memory of
Elizabeth of Austria, most beautiful of
breakers.”
“Doric”: A man whose hobby is
tracing the origin of names of Sydney
suburbs has a few queries: Why has
the “e” been left out of Surrey in Surry
Hills ; why was Lakemba called after
a small island in the Fiji group; who
was the “Mona” of Mona Vale?
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Bo”: I am prepared to swallow the
camel of Russia’s Lunik achievement
while keeping in mind the lone Yank
scientist who pointed out that the
Russkis could have arranged for the
signals to cut-out at the estimated time
of moon-reaching, just in case their cal-
culations happened to be out. But the
gnat on the same astronomical menu I
couldn’t get past my gullet: the
announcement from Budapest’s observa-
tory that at the time the rocket landed
they had seen a small black circle on
top of the moon, “probably dust raised
by the rocket’s impact.” It has all the
earmarks of a kowtowing stooge adding,
like Pooh Bah, corroborative detail to
give verisimilitude to a bald and uncon-
vincing narrative. The rocket’s third
stage—the one designed to hit the moon,
weighed slightly less than 30 cwt. If a
comparatively small object of that weight
were to hit our earth the dust arising
from it wouldn’t be visible more than
a suburb or two away. The moon was
233,600 miles distant. A top Russki
scientist said a rocket would have to
be 200yds. in diameter to make the
impact visible from earth. Over to you,
Budapests!
❖ ►>
“Dune”: As to the “Shy-Anne” pro-
nunciation of “Cheyenne” (B. 2/9/’59):
No, “H.C.8.,” it wasn’t TV which
brought it here; old-timers who were
devotees in their youth of the cylinder-
type phonograph will remember a fear-
fully nasal voice warbling “Shy-Anne,
Shy-Anne, hop on my pony, for there’s
room here for two dear, just after the
cere-mony. . . .” So even in those far-off
days over 50 years ago we had
“Cheyenne” as “Shy-Anne.”
* ►>
“Sanasi”: Stalactites forming in the
foundations beneath Melbourne’s Shrine
of Remembrance aren’t new. In the
late ’twenties I got ten-bob for the news-
item that there were stalactites under
the overwdy bridge at the western end
of Eddy Avenue in Sydney. There are
many, too, under the railway overbridge
in Countess Street, Brisbane.
❖ ❖
“Adele”: Adelaide has often incurred
blame when magnificoes have been
denied admittance to a hotel dining-
room because they had no ties. Let the
people of Adelaide he consoled by a
Sydney law-report of September 7:
Mr. McLennan refused bail after Det. T.
Stone said: “He has no ties, and we fear,
in view of the serious nature of the
charges, that he will not answer bail.”
❖ *l* ❖
“Zeyd”: My young shaver was un-
fortunately among the high-markers in
his school’s intelligence-tests, so decided
then and there that mere work was con-
temptible to a near - genius, and de-
generated from a willing worker who
was always near the top of his class to
a supercilious loafer who was of no use
to himself or his teachers.
♦> ❖
“1.H.P.”: Having left the garage-door
open, I found a printed form tucked
under the windscreen-wiper when I went
out. In large type it asked: “Are you
too Lazy or too Busy to keep your Car
Clean?” Well, it did need cleaning, but
what sort of an approach is that? All
it did was make me mad, and I didn’t
even read the rest of it.'
A LOST ART
“In a paper to the Association for the
Advancement of Science, Dr. Charles Good-
heart, of Cambridge University, says that while
the blushes of which monkeys are capable are
genuine, those of women do not reflect
innocence. But they do enhance her charm
and appeal.”
If a monk, were to squeeze a monkess
In a slightly improper caress,
Hers would be the oddest
Reaction, for modest
Is she —though that scarcely you’d guess.
She’d not swipe him over the jaw,
Or his dial indignantly claw;
. Instead, very shame-faced,
She’d just become flame-faced
A simian shocked —and withdraw.
Her humankind sister, you’ll find,
Has a frontispiece also designed
For facile arranging
Of swift color-changing
Whenever she feels so inclined.
Injured innocence, though, has-no part
In her blushing. With her that’s an art,
And a self-imposed duty
To point-up her beauty —
A tip Nature gave from the start.
The blush that suffuses her face
Also helps to keep Man in his place;
And ( she’ll add as a rider )
That place is beside her —
There’s always available space!
Don’t start getting coy, though, m dears ;
It’s less ponderable than appears.
It’s theory, not practice —
You all know the fact is
The blush has been stone-dead for years !
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


To Brindisi-and Bark
By "NIMROD"
To belong to a clique is not a bad
thing. Apart from the solid feel-
ing of being one of a group, there
are all sorts of customs, jokes and
bywords not shared by the bloke out on
his own.
That’s how it was at Barney’s. Not that
you could call the crowd there a clique;
that was too highfalutin a term for
Gaudenzio, Anselmo and Mick and Tony
and Scotty, for Barney’s was a shanty
on that woodline that used to supply
Kalgoorlie’s fuel before the mines
changed over to coal and oil about six
years ago.
Every night the same mob of wood-
cutters, navvies and engine-crew met there
and got to know each other so well that
they began to speak the same language
with many turns of phrase not quite clear
to the outsider. /
“To make the Brindisi,” I remember,
was one of these. To the ordinary Italian
“fare brindisi" means to drink a toast —
that’s how it appears in the dictionary—
but to the crowd at Barney’s it meant to
go on a binge.
Some reason for making the voyage
was usually felt to be only right and
proper, but, at the same time, some excuse
wasn’t hard to find. A cheerful heart or
a sad one, troubles or freedom from them,
bad news or good, good health or the
lack of it, love or the need of it, consola-
tion or rejoicing, or just plain boredom
were all held to be enough to send a man
“to Brindisi.” And sometimes, quite
without intention, you seemed just to
start off.
AToonlight on whitewashed hessian and
vines trailing over a trellis, sleepy
cooing of sleepless pigeons from the yard
at the back, light of the pressure-lamp
.on swarthy faces above the bench under
the gum-bough shed, strong smell of
garlic and oil and wine on the breath ;
and lively arpegii on Bennie’s accordion
all helped to set the tone.
It wasn’t long before Bennie’s music
had you singing in chorus. Old folksongs
like “Quell’ Mazzolin’ di Fiori” were sung
in parts; more modern ones like “La
Campagnola” (“The Woodpecker’s
Song”) were popular because all parties
knew at least the tune. Later in the
evening would come “II Cacciatore,” an
old ballad with innumerable verses about
a hunter, who was himself snared by
female cunning.
Popular with younger members was
“Se Canta II Mare,” soulful or doleful,
depending on your point of view:
If the ocean shall sing
Then I. wish to hear
For dreams it will bring
Alone of you dear.
“Stella Alpina,” or “Alpine Star,” with
the theme of a happy night of love, high
up on the flower-clad slopes of the Alps,
sounds cool enough on paper, but sung
by warm-blooded Mediterranean types in
a land with few women, it developed an
unmistakable warmth and vibrant long-
ing.
Tf big Mario was there you would be
sure to hear “Santa Lucia,” as would
anybody else within half-a-mile, for
Mario was gigantic in every respect.
He was a raw-boned man with fierce
eyebrows and big jaw-muscles. His voice
was musical and true, but deafening in
volume, and his appetites were as large
as himself. He was credited with having
drunk a full case of beer—4B bottles!
in one night, turning-out to work next day
as usual. Mario was almost a permanent
resident in Brindisi.
If the voyage went on for long, sooner
or later old Jack Locky, after sitting and
brooding on the evils of the Southern
European invasion until he couldn’t stand
it any longer, would shout, “Stop that
Dago singing and give an Aussie a
go! ” Then he would bellow out “Mel-
bourne Town,” “The Wild Colonial Boy”
or a parody on “Killarney” which began
“By Coolgardie’s stinks and 5me115....”
Jack Locky had been on the Woodline
at Bulong, Kurrawang and Lakewood for
almost 50 years, so that he was well-
known to the Italians, who took no notice
of his abuse.
( Continued on page 49)
Tf you preferred, there was always a
card-game at Barney’s. You played
euchre for beer, or any of the European
variations like “scopa” or “tresette.”
The crowd had their own code of rules.
If you saw or suspected cheating, you
didn’t make a fuss, but set your wits
against the other’s to beat him at his own
game.
Arturo, for instance, had an odd habit
of stacking all the jacks at the bottom of
the pack, where they were most access-
ible. When you knew about this, the
obvious thing was to cut the pack deep, so
that you or your partner collected on
that deal.
If you did this often enough, Arturo
would get up, muttering curses which
sounded like poetry, but which, in reality,
condemned you and your family to the
most extraordinary experiences.
The queerest game of all was “bris-
cula,” in which, cheating was legalised.
The.first hand was played blind, but after
that you looked at your cards and were
fully entitled to tell your partner by a
series of winks, nods, upliftings of eye-
brows and shrugging of shoulders what
lay in your hand. The idea was to make
each sign so subtly that only he saw them,
at the same time trying to find out what
the others had by intercepting their
signals.
“Admittedly there is only three-weeks' registration left on this model ,
sir. On the other hand, We must consider the additional advantage of
any longer period being superfluous .”


POLITICAL POINTS
Congratulations on political longevity
were being showered in all directions last
week. On Monday Tom Playford’s tally
of years and days as Premier of South
Australia passed the record of Sir Robert
Walpole for the longest term as chief
Minister of a British country. Walpole
became Prime Minister of Great Britain
on April 3, 1721, and remained in office
until February 11, 1742, a period of 20
years 10 months and nine days. Tom
took over the top- job in South Aus-
tralia on November 5, 1938, and is still
there.
A day later Prime Minister Menzies
and J. J. Clark, Labor M.H.R. for
Darling, completed 25 years in the House
of Representatives. Both were elected
to Canberra at the 1934 election,, but Bob
had a slight advantage on Joe. He’d
already had two years in the Victorian
Legislative Council and five years in the
Assembly and had held Cabinet posts
in Victoria.
On the following day J. J. Cahill
brought-down his eighth successive
Budget in the N. S. Wales Assembly.
U.A.P. Premier and Treasurer Stevens
delivered nine Budgets, but only seven of
them were in succession. Cahill had
already established a record for the
longest term as Premier of N. S. Wales.
• •
The Postal Bill raising rates was passed
last week at Canberra, and Postmaster-
General Davidson says the first five-
penny-stamps issued on October 1 will
be colored blue. Probably with a
purplish tinge like a bruise.
• •
In all the smog raised by the martyr
Healy and his co-sufferers as an after-
math of the Hursey case, one might
imagine that it was the wharf-laborers
who were persecuted, threatened, abused
and menaced with actual injury by flying
objects and hurtling motor-cars. Every-
body seems to have forgotten that though
the High Court did not agree with the
Hursey’s view of' the law it did give
them damages.
• •
When C. J. Campbell’s preferences
were distributed in the Lismore (N.S.W.)
by-election a surprisingly high proportion
(29 per cent.) went to Labor candidate
K. Compton, giving him the seat by a
comfortable margin (583). Final figures
were Compton (A.L.P.), 8312; Easter
(C.P.), 7729. This is the first time
Lismore has ever returned a Labor
member, and the win makes the state of
parties in the Assembly Labor, 50;
Liberal, 29; Country party, 14; Inde-
pendent, 1.
The Russian moon-rocket, launched on
the dot just before Khrushchev’s arrival
in the U.S. was (according to K. himself,
who took with him a replica of it, made
well in advance) sent-off at that time
by sheer casual accident and not with
any intention that it should be a propa-
ganda stunt. Professor Butler, Sydney
University, while not minimising its
impact, declared that the Russian success
was due to the fact that the Kremlin had
made rocketry a No. 1 target ever since
it brought the German scientists to Mos-
cow to develop the enterprise in 1945,
whereas U.S. work did not begin seri-
ously till 1951-52. And he disposed of
the assurance of the press that the hitting
of the moon proved that Russia could
drop a ballistic weapon on any pinpoint
target on earth with ease. He said
hitting the moon was equivalent to
hitting a circle 300 miles across at 12,000
miles.
• •
Good oil from the Spring-street
training-track is that the bill to establish
off-course tote credit-betting in Victoria
will leave the starting-stalls next week.
The going promises to be firm, and the
odds are that Hyland, leader of the
Country party, who holds the whip-hand,
will leave the rails at the right moment,
allowing the favorite to slip through for
a well-earned win, and the chance to
reproduce New Zealand form.
The guarded announcement that Asso-
ciated International Cement, Ltd., of the
U.K., is to make a “survey” of the
Metropolitan Cement undertaking at
Maldon (N.S.W.) at the request of the
N.S.W. Rural Bank, which has advanced
Metropolitan over £4 million, raises the
question of the special terms (if any)
which an overseas co. might be granted
to help salvage the wreck.
Everybody will hope that some miracle
can be performed to rehabilitate this ill-
conceived venture, but not at the expense
of special political concessions that might
be to the disadvantage of other manu-
facturers. Metropolitan has had a lot
of that sort of thing before, and still it
finished up in a fantastic mess.
• •
[From Canberra]
For the first time for more than two years
Labor played as a strong team last week. They
hammered Trade Minister McEwen about
the Import Licensing Branch.
Victorian J. F. Cairns started it on Tuesday,
in the Estimates debate, when he alleged that
if a person “knew the right man and could
pay a few pounds,” he could easily get licence-
transfers from one category to another.
McEwen went into the fray, boots and all,
next day and accused Cairns of a “defamatory
and scurrilous” attack on honest public
servants. Then Ward and Evatt tore into
McEwen and demanded a full inquiry into
import-licensing. Evatt and the P.M. got into
holts and were sternly rebuked by the Speaker.
Reg Pollard took it up from there and pitched
into hjs old opponent McEwen.
On Wednesday night, on the adjournment,
it was on again. First Ward, then Pollard
again, followed by Deputy-Leader Calwell
hammering away for half-an-hour or more. A
repeat-performance at Question Time on
Thursday seemed to have McEwen really
rattled, and Air-Minister Osborne’s attempt to
help him was far from successful.
It’s a long time since the Government side
was so pleased to welcome the weekend.
“And the odds against your getting a house out of it in your old-age are
about the same as against your cracking the jackpot.”


Most surprising piece of book-banning
of the year comes from Pakistan, the
volume blacklisted being the Concise
Oxford Dictionary. The reason is its
definition of Pakistan: “A separate
Moslem State in India, Moslem
autonomy ; (from 1947) the Independent
Moslem Dominion in India > . .” The
objection, of course, is to the implica-
tion that Pakistan is part of India. It
is part of what used to be India ; the
modern term employed to get over this
political difficulty is “Indian sub-
continent.” The Oxford University
Press admits that the definition is tact-
less ; it will be changed when the next
edition is published, but no date has been
fixed for that.
• •
On the subject of bans. Customs
Minister Henty has denied that his
department ordered the banning of a
Tom Lehrer record. He says it may have
been withdrawn by “the people who con-
trolled its release” because of criticism
from a public body in the press. The
public body referred to was obviously
the Boy Scouts’ Association, officials
of which had, not surprisingly, taken
exception to Lehrer’s “Be Prepared.”
The record - company may well have
decided to withdraw the record rather
than antagonize a worthy organisation.
But what about the story that a Customs
official called at the company’s office
about the record, although it was made
in Australia and therefore didn’t come
under the department’s jurisdiction? The
Minister says there was no ban. But
was any moral suasion exerted?
• •
Choice bit from Khrushchev’s propa-
ganda - book unleashed in U.S. on the
eve of his arrival: “Socialism does not
need atomic or hydrogen bombs to
assert itself.... Our principal weapon is
Marxism-Leninism.” It certainly works
without hydrogen bombs —when backed
by a couple of large armies, one run by
the M.V.D., and a few large concentra-
tion camps, plus an occasional massacre
of the recalcitrant.
• •
Cahill says that 41 per cent, of Aus-
tralian factories and factory-workers and
43 per cent, of the value of factory
salaries and factory production are in
N.S.W. A more interesting figure would
be the percentage of industrial stoppage
and go-slow in the Mother State to the
rest of Australia.
• •
Turnbull, M.H.R. for Mallee (Vic.),
suggested in the Reps, that it should be
made a condition of entry for migrants
that they should become naturalised
within three years. Immigration Minister
Downer replied that naturalisation was
an entirely voluntary act and that to
introduce compulsion would be foreign
to the whole concept of Australian
democracy. That is sound; citizenship
is something which should be sought as
an honored privilege, not forced on
people as an obligation.
To another inquirer the Minister said
that there were 206,328 migrants who
were eligible for naturalisation but had
not applied for it. Of these, the main
nationalities were Italian, 53,471 ; Polish,
29,544; Dutch, 23,213; German,
16,812; Yugoslav, 12,725; Greek,
11,123.
• •
British strikes are likely to have a
painful back-kick against Labor at the
elections. The British public reacts
violently against strikes which deprive it
of buses and sporting-news. The election
comes on top of disturbances which are
hindering production of the flood of
cheap baby-cars for which the whole
country has been waiting and of others
which stopped publication of the maga-
zines of the masses.
• •
Brisbane Lord Mayor Groom has sug-
gested foundation of a Metropolitan
Transport Board, arguing that all public
transport should be co-ordinated in the
public’s interests. Treasurer ®Hiley, at
the moment, says nothing, but in a news-
paper article published last year he urged
the council to get rid of its buses. The
council would like nothing better; its
money - gobbling transport - department
always ends its year a hefty six figures in
the red, holding back other council
works. Throughout Greater Brisbane
the council runs trams and buses; State
Railways the suburban trains. Both
systems have their problems, and rising
car-registrations aren’t making them any
easier.
• •
Victorian Chief Justice Herring last
week quashed and criticised a judge’s
order dismissing the appeal of a carrier
who had been sentenced to a month’s
imprisonment and fined on motor-car
charges. The carrier had not been
informed by his solicitors of the date of
his appeal and did not appear. “I’m
shocked,” said Sir Edmund. “You might
be in Russia.”
• e
The ease with which Russia can get
publicity from the Australian capitalist
press is illustrated by the sensational
treatment of the importation of a £llB
“sleep - producing machine.” Dozens
of novel and ingenious pieces of
medical equipment are brought in every
year from Britain, Western Europe and
America without attracting a word of
advertising from the daily press. It is
only the word “Russia” that gives the
thing news-value out of all proportion to
its real importance.
• •
A report on the excellent shopping
facilities on Russian weekends handed
to the A.C.T.U. by Monk and Winter,
who attended the 12th congress of
Soviet trade unions, has created a painful
impression in the Victorian Shop
Assistants’ Union. The report said that
the greatest shop-trading was on
Saturday-afternoons and Sundays ; food-
shops, staffed in shifts, opened all day
and closed just before midnight ; nearly
all shops dosed on Mondays, but a few
of each remained open; everywhere
shops selling durable goods stayed open
12 hours a day.
• •
A wine-firm advertising on the front
page of London “Times” has caught
election-fever. Under the heading “Tory
Topers lead half a lap ahead of Labor
Lappers” it purports to give the results
of a “Gallon poll” conducted by itself
on the question “If there were a General
Selection tomorrow, whose Vin
Ordinaire would you drink?” It claims
that the people interviewed replied
“Dominic’s” in the following per-
centages : Tory Topers, 99|; Liberal
Quaffers, 95; Labor Lappers, 99;
League of Large Bottle Launchers, 100.
This, the vintners maintain, shows that
theirs is “clearly the wine for all parties.”
• •
Cotton-picking is Binghi’s new job
in the Herberton district, N.Q. Taken
on (at award wages of 4.8 d. a pound) to
solve a colored unemployment problem,
Binghi has proved very efficient and likes
his new job so much that he chants as
he works. Lack of employment in the
area has long been, a problem for the
Native Affairs Department; shortage of
pickers has only recently begun to
trouble the increasing number of cotton-
growers.
• •
Queensland Literature Board of
Review has let its average slip. After
banning 79 publications in four years to
June, 1958, it made no orders at all in
1958-59. In its annual report to Justice
Minister Munro the board said the pulp-
literature field still called for “constant
vigilance,” noted general standards of
improvement in comics and paper-backs,
but expressed “concern” about certain
new publications in the “glossy - novel
field.” The board’s score for five years
of censorship: 79 orders prohibiting
publications ; six orders later revoked ;
eight appeals upheld by the High Court
of Australia ; one appeal dismissed by
Queensland Full Court.
• •
“C.S.”: The practical and the academic
approach to the problem of the shortage
of doctors in Victoria is illustrated by
the suggestion of surgeon Albert Coates,
who began life as a letter-carrier and
lived through the Burma-railway horrors,
performing surgical miracles in primi-
tive conditions..
Coates has repeated his suggestion,
first made in 1948, that medical schools
should be set-up in Melbourne hospitals
to avoid the necessity of importing doc-
tors and to give local boys their chance
to become doctors.
As in 1948, the faculty at the University
does not approve, although medical
schools not attached directly to a uni-
versity have" long been established in
London. “It is only a second-best way
of training doctors,” said Professor
Edgar King, the acting Dean, not answer-
ing the issue, and not getting any more
local doctors.


Personal
ITEMS
Passing through Sydney last week on
his way back to England for the election-
campaign, John Hugh Hare, present
Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and
Food in the British Government, has an
unusual distinction. Both he and his
brother, the fifth Earl of Listowel, were
Minister of State for Colonial Affairs,
though on opposite sides of the House.
Listowel held office under the Labor
Government from 1948-50, and Hare for
the Conservatives from December, 1955,
to October, 1956. After Suez, Hare
took-over as Secretary of State for War
and was given his present post in
January, 1958. Educated at Eton, later
in business in London and an alderman
of the L.C.C., he served with the
Suffolk Yeomanry and in War II was in
North Africa and Italy, winning the
0.8. E. and the American Legion of
Merit.
• •
It might not be correct to describe
W. R. Cumming as a power behind
the Throne, but it is a fact that he has
more than most people to do with moving
it about —he is the Commonwealth's
director-general for Princess Alexandra’s
tour, was A.C.T. director for the visits
of the Queen and the Queen Mother
and joint director (with Sir John Jung-
wirth) for the Duke of Edinburgh’s tour
in 1956. He flew to London to make
preliminary arrangements for Princess
Alexandra, flew to Vancouver to see that
she got here, has accompanied her
throughout the tour, and says she is not
in the least exhausted by the strenuous
programme but thoroughly enjoying it.
He lives in Canberra —when he is not
in motion —and, a man of many parts,
is also secretary of the Commonwealth
Art Advisory Board and of the Com-
ROYAL TOURS
monwealth Literary Fund. With a 8.A.,
an L.L.8., a C.V.O. and the rank of
major in the A.I.F. in 1943—none of
which you’d ever guess from his
extremely unassuming personality.
. • •
“C.S.”: Charles Osborne Fairbairn,
who died recently in Melbourne, was not
only the owner of one of Victoria’s
largest sheep-stations, at Skipton, a
V.R.C. committeeman and a good judge
of a running horse, but also one of the
world’s leading amateur daffodil-growers.
His property at Skipton had vistas of
daffodils in the spring; he won inter-
national awards, and he judged at
daffodil-shows on visits to England.
He won the A.F.C. in War I in the
R.F.C., and as a group-captain com-
manded the Ballarat R.A.A.F. training-
centre in War 11.
• •
Colonel James L. MacKinlay, of Perth,
who’s been appointed Colonel Com-
mandant of the Royal Australian Corps
of Signals, was with the sappers in War I,
was later commissioned in the C.M.F.,
and between wars commanded the signals
unit in the 13th Mixed Brigade and later
the 44th Bn. (C.M.F.). He ended War II
as Chief Signals Officer at Morotai and
went on the retired list in 1947. His wife
was for several years State president of
the Westralian R.S.L. Women’s
Auxiliaries.
• •
“K.R.”: Coach of the 1959-60
touring Rugby League Kangaroos,
Clive Churchill at his top was one
of Australia’s greatest Rugby League
fullbacks, brilliant in attack and defence.
Coming to South Sydney from Newcastle
at the end of the 1947 season, the “Little
Master” played a big part in South’s five
premierships in six years (1950-55) —
South was runner-up the other year. He
went on three Kangaroo tours (1948-49,
’52-’53 and ’56-’s7>—a record equalled
by only one otfter player—and also went
away with the 1954 World Cup team.
He led the 1952-53 Kangaroos, and from
1948 to 1956 was an automatic selection
in Australian Test sides. This season he
moved to Queensland, and for a time
was in the running for selection as a
player for his fourth Kangaroo tour. He
coached the successful Queensland and
Test teams this season. Also worth
adding to the record: a year or two ago,
at a picnic, he rescued the daughter of
his employer from drowning.
• •
A few months back Ray Men-
muir won considerable applause with
his TV - production for the A.B.C.
of the “live” drama “The Strong
Are Lonely” —it dealt with the
struggle by Spanish Jesuits to establish
themselves in Peru in the face of intrigue
from the Escurial. In that TV-production
the leading Shakspearian actor John
Alden starred with Ric Hutton. A little
later Ray Menmuir enhanced his solid
reputation with another imaginative
production, Rex Reinits’s “Bodgie.”
Menmuir (here sketched) was
born in W.A. and started as a
journalist with Perth “Daily News”;
then, after a couple of years on the
TV
amateur stage, transferred to radio, where
his talent for producing quickly
showed-up. With the advent of TV he
worked hard with American producer
Rudy Bretz, which sound apprenticeship
launched his career.
• •
Although he finds it a wrench to leave
what he described to The Bulletin as
his family of 250,000 kids and 10,000
teachers, Oliver Charles (Ol) Phillips,
who retired last Friday as Chief Inspec-
tor of Primary Schools in Victoria, will
still be in parental touch with them.
He is a member of the committee pre-
paring a White Paper for the Govern-
ment on education, the most contentious
public subject in Victoria just now
because of the great population-growth
stimulated by migration ; and he will
remain a National Safety executive
because “it’s splendid for the kids.”
A jolly, keen educationist, still as fit
as a fiddle after 47 years in the depart-
ment, he will also have in his retirement
bowls, at which he is quite successful,
and fishing, at which his lack of success
can be judged by his lachrymose: “It’s
so good for your character.”
• •
Resigned for business reasons, Ron
McAuliffe had been joint-secretary of
Queensland and Brisbane Rugby Leagues
since the position was founded. A
former Railways audit-officer and pre-
war R.L. player and Stawell Gift com-
petitor, he served with the 2nd A.I.F.
in the Middle East and in 1952 was


elected B.R.L. chairman in his first year
as a delegate— at 32, one of the youngest
ever to hold the post. In 1954 he became
a member of the Australian Board of
Control.
• •
“Manamoi”: Surely dear old Arthur
Rupert (“Pop”) Wood, who passed
on in the Inverell District Hospital,
aged 86, was the last, not of all Cobb
and Co. drivers, but of those who regu-
larly drove the mountainous Glen Innes-
Grafton (N.S.W.) route. His former
route, still regarded as a “horror stretch,”
has been in the news lately. The new
alternative road, so many years a-build-
ing, is nearing completion, and residents
served by the old road claim it is being
neglected and is often impassable. It
wasn’t often impassable to “Pop” Wood
and his horses.
v
• •
The Earl of Northesk, in Melbourne
to judge dogs at the Royal Show, is
one of the greatest judges of general
dog-breeds in the world. He began
breeding dachshunds as a boy, and is
now a leading breeder of them and of
Labradors, a county aristocrat who
belongs to one club only, the Kennel
Club, of Clarges Street.
He is president of it. The club runs
Crufts, at London Olympia, the greatest
annual dog-show ; this year there were
classes for 120 breeds, with 6500 entries.
A tweedy, friendly fellow, characteris-
tic of English country life, David
Carnegie, the 11th earl, is also an
amateur railwayman and rich enough to
own 3000 ft. of toy train-track at his
home in Berkshire, with 50 locos., 100
passenger-cars and 200 trucks or vans.
He is also chairman of the Talyllyn
Railway Preservation Society in Wales,
which took-over more than six miles of
line in Merionethshire when it was
threatened with closure, and now makes
a profit from it.
When he leaves Melbourne he will
judge at Auckland Show and return
home.
• •
Lately arrived in Sydney to become
Warden of the Australian Outward
Bound Memorial Foundation School —
it’s been opened at Fisherman’s Point
on the Hawkesbury, about 35 miles from
the city—Warwick Deacock seems just
the type to teach boys what their
capabilities are and show how best to
develop them. English, now 32, he was
-in the Royal Marines in War 11, became
a commando-instructor, later collected
a commission in the Middlesex Regiment,
and in 1955 transferred to the Parachute
Regiment. He interspersed military
duties with expeditions in Alaska,
Lapland, Malaya and the Himalayas,
until Sir John Hunt had him seconded
to help on the adjudication-committee
of the Duke of Edinburgh’s Award.
Early this year the British Army agreed
to release him to take-up this appoint-
ment in Australia. He’s a Fellow of
the Royal Geographical Society, a
member of the Himalaya Club and of
the Climber’s Club of Great Britain,
and has done a lot of lecturing about
his expeditions. His wife was one of
three women who made a 16,000-mile
round-trip by car from London to the
Himalayas and back —the first European
women ever to enter the forbidden terri-
tory between India and Tibet.
• •
In 1942 John Waters left his desk as
editor-in-chief of Brisbane “Courier-
Mail,” and, a bit over the age for a
fighting-man, enlisted in the A.I.F. as
JOURNALISM
a gunner —characteristic of the journalist
who’s now editor-in-chief of Melbourne
“Herald’s” publications. Later seconded
for R.A.A.F. public-relations, he flew on
missions and turned-in news-reports that
were acclaimed overseas as well as in
Australia.
At the time one of Keith Murdoch's
young men on the “Herald,” he was
chosen by the “Argus” as editor of the
“Star” when it was decided to challenge
the “Herald” with an evening publication.
The “Star” folded, and Murdoch sent
him to Brisbane.
One of the best-liked and best-known
newspapermen in Australia, Waters
(pictured) wrote Crosses of Sacrifice —
an Anzac tribute —in 1932 and Valiant
Youth (1946) on the theme of the newer
Anzacs. Apart from his journalistic
activities he’s now interested in primary-
production and in racing jumpers.
• •
Pat Lawlor: Winston McCarthy, the
Rugby commentator, is almost a world
radio-personality. His shrill voice has
echoed over the air in Britain and
Africa, and on the Continent, as well
as in his own New Zealand. And what
a voice it is—it never falters or fades,
rising to falsetto at the scoring of a
meritorious try, but in calmer moments
soliloquising like Hamlet over the
adequacies or inadequacies of a game ;
then suddenly trumpeting like Lear in a
Wellington gale as the battle breaks
anew. As just as Solomon, he will
unknowingly betray his sympathies by
the withering or triumphant note of his
delivery. Through it all, the progress
of a game is recorded on the listener’s
mind as faithfully as TV could do it.
• •
“R.K.” farewells his successor as
Representative Colonel Commandant,
Royal Australian Corps of Signals:
In late 1942 the anti-aircraft guns of Port
Moresby’s defences were located on the summits
of the steep conical hills around the port.
When Brigadier Herrick Edwards arrived he
wished to see the inter-communication system
which connected the guns, and said he intended
to visit each gun in turn. This gave some
concern to the younger officers of the Signals
staff, who suggested that the country might
be too rough and rugged for a personal visit
to each gun-position. But the Brigadier was
not to be put-off, and a couple of hours later
it was the younger generation which was breath-
lessly laboring behind!
The Brig.’s grey hair and rather plump figure
belied his excellent physical condition and
mental energy. In the sago-swamps and jungle
around Buna, Gona and Dobodura he was
always determined to see for himself the line-
and wireless-links and the men who operated
and maintained them. And he even saw humor
in New Guinea mosquitoes, once expressing a
fear that the punctures they made might never
heal, so that he’d suffer from pernicious
amemia through blood-leakage.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Brisbane, at 63, Garnsey H. St. Clair
Potts, in World War I squadron-leader, A.F.C.
A King’s School (Sydney) boy, and second son
of a former principal of Havvkesbury College,
he joined the first School of Flying at Rich-
mond, along with Reg Williams, Nigel Love
and others. After the war “Gar” was a crew-
member of the Blackburn-Kangaroo plane (the
others were Hubert Wilkins, Reg Williams and
Rendle) which crashed into a ditch in Crete
while competing in the Australia-England air-
race won by Ross and Keith Smith.
In Sydney, at 58, Eric McLoughlin, assistant-
editor of the “Sydney Morning Herald.”
At Coolangatta (Q.), «at 96, Patrick Joseph
Fagan, who came to Australia in 1886 and
built Greenmount guest-house in 1903, naming
it after his home-village in Ireland. He ran
the guest-house for 40 ( years (there’s a beach
there named after it)' and was for long a
leading figure in Tweed Heads and Coolangatta
jntblic life.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 63, Father James
J. Riordan, S.M., whose work for the spiritual
and bodily welfare of the Maoris was rewarded
with the C.M.G. A Rugby Union enthusiast,
he listencd-in to Winston McCarthy’s broad-
cast account of the third N.Z.-Lions Test the
day before he died.
At 53, the Rev. Father Tom Cunningham
passed on in the Arctic. Born in New
Zealand, he entered the Jesuit order in Aus-
tralia and studied in Europe, Canada and the
U.S. before volunteering for his missionary
post. He was parish-priest of 150,000 square-
miles of territory above the Arctic Circle.
At the Old Timers’ Home (N.T.), at about
80, Carl Wille, known for 41 years at Coober
Pedy as the greatest opal-cutter ever. Of
German birth, he deserted his ship at Port
Pirie in 1911 to work on the east-west railway.


ABORIGINALITIES
’IX7E were doing the “milk-run” by
** DC3 from Cairns, delivering mail,
groceries, reels of Sylko, nylons and
hi-fi records to cattle-stations in the Gulf
Country around Normanton. At Mitchell
River Mission Station we ran into mem-
bers of the Spalding-Ferguson Wild Life
Society of New York, who were ranging
the country, collecting specimens for
their museum. They explained they were
awaiting the arrival of an abo. named
Robert, who had arranged to bring along
a carpet-snake for their collection. A
little later, coming out of tile scrub,
Robert was greeted with: “Hey, where’s
that carpet-snake?” Robert cogitated for
a moment, then, rubbing his bingy
appreciatively, said briefly: “Et him
yest’d’y! ” —“Nedkel.”
* j * * ■ - *
“Q. Ree” (Fiji): The Fijian meke
(action-song) is very dignified, and when
tourists see anything with hula in it they
are not seeing the genuine Fijian article,
but one learned from Samoan or
Rotuman immigrants. The Samoans’ and
Rotumans’ dancing is more what tourists
expect, and is nice to watch —as also is
the meke. Usually, the younger ones
dance, with the older women singing,
but when the music gets faster,
especially when they begin Chulu r
Chululu, the old ones get up
and dance with a grace, vigor and
enthusiasm which puts the young ones
to shame. When I remarked to a com-
panion on the energy of one old girl
"If I GIVE you one, Chucks, don't tell the Marketing Board!"
who looked about 50, she replied: “She’s
not so old. She hasn’t turned forty yet.”
They are beautiful when they are young,
and so mature —but how they agel
* * * *
“Rehab”: Riley, one of the station
blacks, always went about his job on
winter mornings sporting his entire
wardrobe: shirt, trousers, pullover, boots,
Army great-coat, balaclava and slouch-
hat. His chores completed, a transformed
Riley, stark naked, spears in hand, would
leave the nearby natives’ camp and go
streaking off into the bush in search of
game.
* * :k £
“Jasby”: Most Australians had prob-
ably never heard of Ceduna until the
Stuart royal commission brought it into
the headlines, but this little town on
the shores of the Great Australian Bight
has the distinction of being near the
first point on the South Australian coast
ever sighted by a European —and that
nearly a century and a half before Cap-
tain Cook discovered Botany Bay. In
1627 the Dutch ship Golden Zeepaard,
commanded by Francois Thijssen and
having on board as passenger Pieter
Nuyts, an official of the Dutch East
India Company, made its landfall in that
vicinity and sailed back along the shores
of the Bight until it rounded the Leeuwin
and got on its course to Java. The name
of Nuyts Archipelago, a group of islands
athwart Denial and Smoky Bays, com-
memorates the visit. Nuyts and Thijssen
named the two largest islands St. Peter’s
and St. Francis’ islands, perpetuating
their own Christian names ; a reef about
150 miles to the west of. the archipelago
w'as named Nuyts’ reef and the whole
coastline westward to the Leeuwin was
shown on early maps as Nuytsland.
After the Golden Zeepaard no ship was
seen in those waters until Flinders took
the Investigator along the coast in 1802.
* * * *
“Jade”: Generations of mother-cats
have made life difficult for dogs that
approach the house-yard. Favored attack
is for one mother to launch herself at
the dog while he is off-balance ; another
cat follows-up, and when he is down the
first attacker jumps on his tender under-
surface. The present title-holder has no
sisters to help, and, though a small cat,
gets good results by a series of ricochets.
When Uncle Don brought a strange dog
from the Queensland west, as usual
Tibby had kittens to protect, and she
sized-up the intruder carefully. It was
long, lean and yellow, with white-tipped
bushy tail, while a long red tongue lolled
THE RAVEN CROW
He is round and glossy, and smooth and
sleek,
Swift of pinion and strong of beak;
At the break of day he is on the wing
With the wild, fierce cry of an evil thing.
Peering down as he flits on high,
Nothing escapes his glittering eye ;
His evil shadow profanes the sky —
The squatter’s bane and the farmer s foe,
A cruel bird is the raven crow.
When the land is barren and drought-
distressed
That is the time that he loves the best
And the stockmen riding around their
herds
Curse the work of the cruel birds.
When starving cattle grow faint and weak,
Lying helpless in swamp or creek
They fall a prey to its cruel beak :
A shout of triumph, a wail of woe
Blend in the cry of the raven cro w.
111-omened bird, when your race is run
And they call the list of the deeds you’ve
> done,
There is not a voice will be heard to
plead
One word to soften the doom decreed.
But down, deep down to the fiery pit
That is mentioned oft in the Holy Writ
With one last croak to the depths you’ll
flit,
And the evil demons that dwell below
Will welcome the soul of the raven crow.
N.T.-
EDWARD HARRINGTON.




from a mouth filled with extra-large
teeth. It looked at her and whined, but
mercifully did not bark, barking being
bad for cats’ nerves. With a big dog the
only thing is for-a cat to get it on the
run before it gets her ; so, fluffing herself
up and frizzing like a packet of crackers,
Tibby launched herself into her routine
very successfully. Still not a bark out of
that odd. dog! Looking puzzled, she
chased him again, then retired, puzzled,
to the fence-top to ponder, unaware that
she is one of the few cats in the world,
possibly the only one, to have chased a
half-grown dingo. Now it is full-grown,
and she still chases it.
* * * *
“C.H.R.”: A South Australian grazier,
showing me a six-months-old pup he said
was worth £2OO, stressed that the price
was economically sound. He would get
10 years’ work out of the dog, which
would do the work of five men. If you
“Now what have you done?”
figured that out, he was dirt-cheap at
the price. After seeing the pup working
a blowfly down a 45ft. skin-shed, and
taking it off my shoulder without my
feeling it, I believed him.
* * * *
“North Esk”: Harry v an old fossicker
on Tasmania’s west coast, was worried
by a big black bird of the jay family
that would come and perch nearby when
he hung out his bit of washing and
call out “Cal-i-co! Cal-i-co!” Fed-up
with the critic’s comments, Harry yelled:
“You’re a flaming liar! They’re not
calico —they’re flannelette ! Now say
that if you can, for a change!”
* # * *
“A.P.L.”: That story of the bulldog
(B. 1/7/’59) recalled my young mastiff
Oom, purchased from a Sydney pork-
butcher and taken with me to Port
Moresby. When, up there, I was
eventually transferred to Daru the native
police-orderly took an affectionate fare-
well of Oom. I found him hugging the
dog, who was licking his face. Daru is a
notorious place for snakes of the most
venomous kind, and one eventually got
Oom. The native police, who had
found him dead, were instructed
to bury him. They sewed him up in
their blankets, built a shelter in the
consecrated cemetery at Daru and put
plates of food alongside Oom for his
spirit to use. After a few days the local
missionary complained about the smell.
Asked why they had not put him in the
ground, the “boys” said, “Oh, Oom, he
’nother kind,” meaning he was not an
ordinary dog. Then Oom was buried in
a grave, European-style, with Europeans
for company.
* * * *
“H.R.M.”: Re saying Grace (B.
26/8/’59): an itinerant Digger we
invited to lunch told us he called on a
North Coast (N.S.W.) dairyfarmer to
touch him for a job or a hand-out and
was invited to dine with the family. When
all were seated there was an embarrassing
silence until the father of the family
said: “Will the Stranger say Grace?”
* # * *
“Tom Trout” (London): Revealing
Australia as my origin had Spaniards
bumbling around with “Italia” and
“Austria” before alighting correctly in
the Southern Hemisphere. Then their
envious question would be: “It’s a very
rich country, isn’t it?” Next they’d ask
was it as hot as Spain? When I said
sometimes hotter, they were plainly
depressed. The Spaniard’s conversational
pride in his “mucho calor /” is as great
as the Englishman’s in his rain! The
French were more interested in our
fauna, and, though sheep were men-
tioned, rabbits invariably came up first.
When I told of myxomatosis, they were
at first surprised, then delighted at this
further evidence of French genius con-
tributing to the well-being of the
barbarous outer fringes of the world 1
* * * *
“F.G.”: Not only Sankey’s hymns
are used for other purposes (B. 26/8/’59);
I hear on the air the old shearers’ song
with the refrain “Qick go the shears,
click, click, click.” Sixty years ago we
sang to the same tune a song beginning:
“High in the belfry the old watchman
stands,” with the refrain: “Ring the bell
watchman, ring, ring, ring.” Was told
then that the song referred to the joyful
ringing of the bells when news arrived
of Nelson’s victory at Trafalgar.
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: That joke-block about
the bird-bath (B. 2/9/’59) reminds me
of a matron now of Ashfield (Sydney)
who has provided bird-baths on the front-
lawns of her various homes all her
married life. She also provides a generous
sand-box nearby ; she says small birds,
especially, ‘take both baths —the dry
always first.
* * * *
“Miss M.”: Discussion here about
suitable wood for clothes-pegs recalls
those hard-to-get war-time clothes-pegs
which split on first use. I’m glad to
have my conviction that there must have
been some more suitable timber borne-
out by no less than “Sevenelms.” The
annoyance of match - sticks that
snapped when struck has been
overcome, not nearly soon enough,
by the use of hoop - pinfe, that
darling of the Queensland Forestry
Department, but demand now threatens
to outrun supply. Latest experiments
have been with the fast-growing cotton-
wood-popiars, plantations of which are
to be started in the Grafton (N.S.W.)
area.
* * * *
“J.G.E.”: Constantly removing
drowned birds —mostly kookaburras —
from our windmill-tanks, and attributing
the fatalities to the birds’ over-balancing
while trying to get a drink, I put a
floating fence-post in every tank. Result:
no, more drowned birds. Generally fol-
lowed, this would save the lives of count-
less thousands of valuable birds, as well
as keeping the water in the Mnks un-
contaminated.
* * * *
“L.V.G.”: Moorabbin, 10 miles south
of Melbourne, owes its name to a gum-
tree. The name is abo. for “resting-
place.” Natives from Mornington Penin-
sula used an outsize eucalypt as a shady
half-way house when they went visiting
their neighbors up along the Yarra, but
it went out of business when the northern
blacks sold their area to-John Batman.
Nowadays, white fellas stop for a spell
quite near that old blacks’ camp, but
the refreshments they imbibe are a little
more invigorating than what was avail-
able to the abos.


Tt was raining cats-and-dogs the first
day of the pony-club camp, so, the
kids being “grounded,” the chief in-
structor, a military type, put them
through their drill under shelter, minus
ponies. At the end of it he expressed
the hope that they had all been attentive,
because they would have to do all that
drill on their ponies the next day, and
asked if there were any questions.
Serious-faced little bloke at the back
put his hand up: “Please, sir, how do
you make a horse stand-at-ease?” —-
“Dicky.”
* * * *
“Miss M.”: At first I thought “Brick
E’s” “Pats” must be exiles from Erin,
but that par. (B. 5/8/’59) referred to
Chinese. I, too, have seen them carry-
ing watering-cans or baskets of produce
suspended from shoulder - poles not
long or springy, but old broomsticks,
which must have been cruelly hard on
the shoulders. But “Pats” —anyone know
the origin of that colloquialism?
* * * *
“Joel”: Perhaps “Blower” (B.
2/9/’59) could help? 1 have a 21b.
glass-jar embossed with a coat-of-arms
depicting a harp, thistle and the lions.
The wording around the device reads:
“Standard Salt Co. Ltd. S.A. Waratah
Superfine Table Salt.” Now, how long
since salt was sold in glass-jars?
* * * *
“Blocker”: A succession of bumper
seasons has brought unprecedented
prosperity to most Victorian farmers, but
storekeepers in some two-store, one-pub
towns have never had it worse. Years
ago the cocky booked at his local store
everything from a drum of kero, to a
toothbrush, but now, flush with ready
cash, he gets the ute out once a week
and drives Mum to the nearest town
that has a couple of self-service grocers.
The poor old local storekeeper still sells
the occasional tin of fruit or baked-
beans for cash, but many of the regular
orders he gets are from bad-payers, who,
regardless of their soaring bank-balances,
still believe that a storekeeper should
be paid never more than once a year,
and then only when legal action is
threatened.
SEAWEED STORY
{"''an’t some more profitable use be made
of Australia’s abundant supplies of
seaweed? Is the C.5.1.R.0. perhaps do-
ing something about the new chemical
uses of the stuff ?
Overseas, these weeds of the sea have
a variety of uses —and altogether an
interesting story.
Caragheen-moss, or carrageen (several
times referred to in these pages), is Chon-
dr us crispus, which is prolific in the
shallow waters around the coasts of
Northern Ireland and Scotland. The
Hebrideans wash it in fresh-water, bleach
and dry it in the sun; when boiled with
milk it makes a nutritious, creamy-look-
ing jelly, and I can vouch for its flavor.
Among other seaweeds used for food
(and found plentiful on Britain’s coasts)
are purple-laver ( Porphyra vulgaris ),
which contains sugar, has an agreeable
acid-flavor and is eaten with roast-mutton,
or as a savory on toast; green-laver
(Ulva latissima ), whose thin, broad,
glossy green leaves are made into a kind
of bread; and Ceylon- or Jaffna-moss
“I told you not to put the Woodpeckers next to the hull!”
(Plocaria Candida ), from which comes
agar-agar, used by bacteriologists as a
medium for their cultures, also for jellies,
isinglass and paper-varnish.
The Laminaria species is burnt for
kelp and iodine. One ton of kelp can be
obtained from 20 tons of weed. The
principal elements of kelp are potassium-
sulphate, potassium-chloride, sodium-
chloride and sodium-carbonate. lodine
is obtained from kelp by a boiling and
distillation.
Crofters in the Western Isles gather
the “tangle” (as they call seaweed) after
the autumn and winter gales, and use it
either as fertiliser or as cattle-fodder.
As a fertiliser it is put on the land at once,
as it will not “compost” in heaps. There,
its greatest results were with mangolds
and plants of the cabbage-family.
The right to collect tangle is generally
part of the crofters’ leases, and its
use to them is important. The rise and
fall in its demand sparked an exciting
but disastrous episode in Scotland’s
social history.
In 1720 one Meldrum went from
Frazerburgh to the Orkneys to show
how kelp-ash was obtained. Soon,
shallow pits, smouldering for a fortnight,
caused a low blue haze above the shore,
permeated by a salty-sweet scent.
Because of its higher potash- and soda-
content, glassmakers and bottlemakers
used Spanish-barilla until troubles in
Spain cut-off supplies. The sudden
demand for kelp jumped the 1740 price
of £8 a ton to a peak of £2O. The enorm-
ous profits caused an influx from the
cities, and by the end of the 18th century
some 100,000 men, women and children
were depending on the industry. All
kelp went into ash ; none of it, nor labor,
was available for fertilising the forgot-
ten coastal lands.
Then came the crash ! When barilla
was back on the market kelp slumped
to £2 a ton ; hundreds of small firms
were ruined and thousands of kelp-
makers were starving. The neglected
land gave no employment. It was this
that started the mass-exodus to America
at the beginning of the 19th century.
When a Frenchman—M. Bortois —
discovered iodine, the kelp-trade rose and
a boom was expected. Then came cheaper
iodine from Chilian nitrate and the great
Highland industry died. The tangle was
left once again solely to the crofter for
his small-holding.
Then, with World War 11, came a
demand for alginic-acid, agar-agar and
other chemicals, all. obtainable from the
forgotten tangle. ‘And now once again
a lucrative outlet' is available through
modern chemistry and engineering in the
processing-factories in the Isles and on
the mainland. One crofter on South
Uist made £2OO in three months last
winter. The Scottish Seaweed Research
Association and private companies are
making every effort to encourage gather-
ing by the crofters and are investigating
mechanical means of harvesting.
Australia, with its untouched abun-
dance of seaweed, could share in this
boom-market. Even in seaweeds of the
same variety there is a difference in
chemical composition because of geo-
graphical locations, possibly caused by
varying densities of sea-water and differ-
ent types of sea-movements. Japan is
successfully developing its seaweed-
industry for chemicals and for food.
Sea-farming along our littoral might
yet, and soon, be as profitable as land-
cultivation.
ARBRE.


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urqchart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Briooes, F. H. Mollens
J Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
BWBI7I 13 lines) 8LK327
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECELEX.” Sydney
DAVIS. ROTHWELL & CO.
C lncorporating Headlam, Hew son & Co.)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.)
117 Pitt Street, Sydney. 193 Summer Street, Orange.
81. 1855 (3 lines) Orange 4054
Telegraphic and Cable Address, “BETEP,” Sydney.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
B.H.P. at 70s. 6d.
'T'he 70s. 6d. a share notched
by B.H.P. last week left
some market observers shaking
their heads, though probably
not shaking as hard as when
the scrip went to a “high” of
575. in 1958, before the last
new issue.
A wider understanding of
the compounding effect of
overseas buying, under recip-
rocal-tax advantages, on the
prices of Australian shares has
brought a realisation that some
Australian stocks are not being
bought for themselves alone,
but in the belief that someone
else from overseas will find
them more attractive for hold-
ing tightly than the local lads
have found them to be, and
will pay accordingly.
B.H.P. has an issue now of
63,697,000 £1 shares, and
when these are all fully paid
the market capitalisation of
the undertaking, at 70s. a share,
would be £232 million. The
yield from an 81 per cent. div.
is 2.4 p.c. on that basis. If the
div. were raised to 15 p.c. in
the near future (and there is
no indication of it) the return
would still be only 4.3 p.c.
On the other hand, the earn-
ing-capacity of B.H.P. is
obvious. The snag is the
enormous amount of develop-
ment that has still to be paid
for out of earnings. But in view
of the regard which even the
biggest and most conservative
companies have for the matter
of possible takeovers, there is
some cause to wonder whether
B.H.P.’s suggestion "of in-
creases in price J:or its pro-
ducts indicates any contem-
plated liberalising of the divi-
dend policy.
Cellulose (Aust.), Ltd.
/Cellulose (Australia), Ltd.,
manufacturing paper-
board from pines grown at
Millicent in South Australia,
has financed its steady expan-
sion largely out of ploughed-
back profits, dividends having
been kept down during the
co.’s earlier manufacturing life
even when profits were quite
juicy in relation to capital.
However, the div. grew to
a respectable 10 p.c. in 1957
and stayed there in 1958 even
though earnings fell below
30 p.c. on ord. capital (to
26.9 p.c.) for the first time in
four years. Last term, with a
recovery to 33.3 p.c. in earn-
ings, in ' relation to capital, a
4 p.c. bonus was added to the
10 p.c. div., making 14 p.c.
for the year.
There is £126,875 of cheap
“Our case rests.”
(5 p.c.) pref. money. Ord.
capital over the past six years
has grown only from £380,000
to the present £570,000 in spite
of large outlay on plant and
the joint venture into tissue-
paper.
During the current year it is
expected that the co. will make
its final contribution to the
capital of Apcel, Ltd., formed
in co-operation with Australian
Paper Manufacturers to make
tissue-papers at Millicent.
Cellulose (Aust.) owns 600,000
B-class shares in the co. (half
the capital), and at June 30 had
paid 7s. a share (£210,001) on
them. The calling-up of the
remaining £389,999 during the
present year is expected to be
met out of internal funds. At
last balance-day Cellulose
(Aust.) owed only £57,402 to
outsiders, and its credit with
the State Bank of S.A. seems
to be particularly good.
Output of paper-board by
Cellulose itself is now in the
vicinity of 16,000 tons a year.
The co.’s equipment has been
kept very up-to-date and
adaptable to changes in tech-
niques overseas.
The £570,000 of ord. capital
is backed-up by £817,998 of
reserves and undistributed
profits.
In addition, there is a
£61,109 provision for replace-
ments and contingencies (down
£42,67-3 during the year).
Accumulated provision for
depreciation stands at £265,796
(down £62,212 during the year,
although the addition out of
the year’s profits was £55,452),
against plant with a book-
value of £959,589 (down
£20,121, though the whole
item is shown at cost in the
books).
Apparently some plant was
scrapped, sold or transferred
to the new Apcel associate
during the year.
The business looks to be one
with a high long-term potential,
especially when the new tissue-
paper venture gets into full
production. The sharemarket
has hoisted its bid for the
shares from a “lowest” of
41s. 9d. in 1958 to 88s. last
week. At that figure the imme-
diate yield is £3 3s. per cent,
on a 14 p.c. div. basis, and the
showing of earnings to market
price is 7.6 p.c.
Mauri Bros, and Thomson
As indicated in these pages a
short time ago, Mauri
Bros, and Thomson has paid
a 10 p.c. ord. div. for the past
year, compared with 9 p.c. in
the preceding term and 8 p.c.
following the last bonus-issue.
It has been the pattern of
directors’ policy, after a bonus-
issue, to lift the dividend by
1 p.c. p.a. until a certain
“critical” point—last time 11
p.c.—and then to make another
bonus-issue.
But in between bonus-issues,
profits (entirely dividends from
subsidiaries) have each year
shown little surplus above
the parent’s div.-require-
ments. The inference has
been that the subsidiaries
have not been required to dis-
tribute more of their earnings
than has been necessary to
cover the dividend to public
shareholders with an adequate
margin.
It would appear, though,
that consolidated earnings have
been big enough for many
years not only to pay the
annually increasing dividend-
charge but also to finance the
considerable growth that has
been taking place in the busi-
ness. That is apart from the
growth financed by issues of
shares in takeover operations
which have occurred on a wide-
spread scale during the past
few years.
Last term the co. issued
ordinary stock with a par-value
of £552,518 in the biggest
series of takeovers (in Aus-
tralia and N.Z.) to date.
“Thus,” says chairman Don
Junor, “we have entered the
field of stainless-steel fabrica-
tion of equipment required for
the buttermaking, dairying,
chemical, food and paper-
making industries.”
In addition, the co. joined
with Crosse and Blackwell
(Holdings), Ltd., of London,
in establishing an organisation
in Australia to manufacture
foods under the Crosse and
Blackwell brands. Mauri Bros,
will be equal partners with C.
and 8., and has given the new


Invest in
The longest established hire-purchase company
in Australia,
k
in which the Bank of New South Wales
has a 40% shareholding.
DEBENTURE
STOCK
6 to 10 years
7%
4 years 6Vk% 3 years 6% 2 years SVz%
Short Term Stock also available from
3 months at 3%%
Assets exceed £55,000,000
Application Forms and Prospectus
• Any A.G.C. Branch • Your Stockbroker
• Bank of New South Wales at any Branch
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
142 Phillip Street, Sydney • BW 2673
Sydney • Melbourne • Brisbane • Adelaide • Perth
Hobart
Underwriting brokers: lAN POTTER & CO.
S 3
venture a ready-made start by
acquiring Raleigh Preserving
and L. G. Thorne and Co. Pty.
The parent’s paid capital
now stands at £2,316,819, all
but £171,900 of it in ords.
The co.’s four-year plan for
modernisation and extension
of its factories was completed
during the past year, but
further capital-outlay will be
necessary during the current
term to cope with the Crosse
and Blackwell joint venture, and
other activities now in. hand.
The Mauri Bros, business is
Australia-wide, and it and its
archipelago of subsidiaries deal
in Crown seals, cork, yeast,
malt, vinegar and brewers’,
hotel-keepers’, bakers’ and
butchers’ supplies, as well as
general shop-fittings and many
other things. No details of
activities are given in the
accounts, the holding-co.'s
profits being written in one
line (£216,278 last term, after
tax), and, apart from the
parent’s freeholds, etc., its other
assets are shown as shares and
advances to other companies at
a total of £3,834,962. Reserves
disclosed at £793,864 are
obviously a nominal figure.
But while the management
is resolute in its opinion that
the best interests of share-
holders are served by not
publishing consolidated figures,
it does not leave investors
entirely in the dark as to its
true potential—witness the two
bonus-issues over the past
seven years, which show that
it has no desire to rest on its
accumulations. On the other
hand, its takeover policy and
its own expansion plans reveal
the management to be most
energetic. And, as to the pros-
pects arising from the most
recent developments, the chair-
man in the latest annual report
says that it is believed that the
co.’s earning-capacity will be
“increased satisfactorily upon
our new activities becoming
expanded and fully established
in accordance with our plans.”
The sharemarket recently
ran Mauri Bros, shares up
from a “lowest” of 465. this
year to 655. Though the final
dividend was no higher than
what was indicated by the
interim, on the pattern of
previous years an 11 p.c. dis-
tribution this year is a reason-
able anticipation, and there are
true growth prospects in this
stock even if they are not fully
exhibited to shareholders in
the annual accounts. The
advent of canned beer does not
appear to entail much of a
threat to the Crown-seal busi-
ness, and the co.’s other
activities appear to be con-
solidating as well as broaden-
ing. The immediate yield on
an 11 p.c. div. basis would be
3.4 p.c., and there are at
least reasonable prospects of
such a rate being bettered,
either through another bonus-
issue or an outright div.-
increase, within the foresee-
able future.
Mt. Isa’s Cash Div.
As was forecast in B.
26/8/’59, Mt. Isa Mines,
Ltd., is this year paying its
25 p.c. dividend wholly in cash,
and not partly in shares, as in
the two previous years.
Group profit for the year to
June 30 last has been an-
nounced at £4,030,722, com-
pared with £1,498,533 in
1957-58. The 1958-59 profit is
equal to 56 p.c. on capital.
It was a year in which
higher output more than offset
low, but improving, metal
prices.
There are 28,498,694 ss.
shares issued by Mt. Isa
Mines, Ltd., and they have had
strong market support lately
at 58s.
Pick-Me-Up Food
'T'he 34-for-100 bonus-issue
announced by Pick-Me-Up
Food Products, Ltd., is another
one up for the backers of
Raymont Moore, who is a
director of the co., but not, in
this case, chairman. He is on
the board of several of this
season’s crop of bonus-issuing
companies—R. Fowler, Aus-
tralian Gypsum, J. Stedman
Henderson, to name the most
prominent. It remains to be
seen whether Ford Sherington,
which has had a rise from
9s. 3d. to 16s. 6d. in its ss.
shares this year, will be another
“Ray Moore” to make a
bonus-distribution. Up to this
year most investors had come
round to the view that a death-
adder had taken-up its resi-
dence in this co.’s affluent till.
John Mcllwraith Industries
'T'he management of John
-*• Mcllwraith Industries,
Ltd., has met the economic
conditions, good and bad, of
the past eight years with a
stout heart and energetic
trading activity, and its policy
has paid-off. It is not in the
easiest of businesses baths,
sinks, plumbers’ and builders’
supplies, brassware, lead and
lead-piping, etc. —but, except
for the 1952-53 term, profits
each year have shown an in-
crease.
For 1958-59 sales overall in-
creased slightly, despite in-
tense competition (which the
board expects to continue),
and consolidated net profit,
after depreciation (£77,306, up
£7998) and taxation (£282,262,
up £12,370), was £30,224
higher at £485,257, and equal
to 32 p.c. on the one-class ord.
capital of £1,517,240, compared
with 30 and 27.5 p.c. in the
two preceding years.
The dividend was main-
tained at 15 p.c., a rate share-
holders have received for the
past two years.
The sharemarket has in-
creased its bid recently for the
10s. shares to 445., to yield
only 3.4 p.c. on the current
div. basis. Earnings to market
price are now comparatively
low at 1\ p.c.
But emphasis in the directors’
report is upon expansion in
all States, particularly in
N.S.W. and Victoria. Special
attention is being given to the
stainless-steel side of the
business.
During the year Sydney free-
holds were revalued and
written-up by £153,834. Since
the close of accounts a 23-acre
factory-site has also been
acquired in Sydney. In Vic-
toria manufacturing is to be
concentrated at Coburg, all
activities at Richmond to be
transferred eventually.
At the weekend the takeover
by Mcllwraith’s was announced
of J. Wadham and Sons Pty.,
Adelaide brassfounders, for
160,000 10s. stock-units and
£lO,OOO in'cash.
The considerable expansion
that has taken place under the


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £89,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office (or Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/,-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
various John Mcllwraith roofs
during the past decade has been
accomplished with an increase
of only 50 p.c. in paid capital.
Though there is nothing in
the taxation provision to indi-
cate that profits have been
understated at the same time
there has been little to suggest
that the book-value of assets
(or outside liabilities) has
grown unduly.
In its accounts for the past
year the old-established busi-
ness makes a point of illustrat-
ing the growth of its visible
reserves since the conversion to
a public co. in 1950. Including
goodwill-on-consolidation as an
asset, reserves in nine years
have grown from £89,034 to
£1,755,854 —which is £238,614
in excess of paid capital.
While General Industries was
passing through its difficult
period a couple of years ago
the sharemarket was a little
concerned about the prospects
of John Mcllwraith. And
then there were rumors that
General Motors might enter
the baths-and-sinks business in
Australia. G.M.-H. haven't
shown any sign of doing so
yet. And in order to chase-
away anyone who might think
of coming-in through a take-
over, John Mcllwraith appears
to have gone to some extra
trouble this year to put the
co.’s good points before its own
shareholders.
The co., incidentally, does
the commonsense thing in
putting its consolidated figures
in the anrfual accounts before
the holding-co.’s purely formal
items.
“Block” Clays on Timor
[From L. Owen]
“TJlock” clays consist essen-
tially of a clay matrik
which carries rounded or
angular blocks of erratics (that
is, material derived from
another formation) which can
vary in size from pebbles to
masses weighing hundreds of
tons.
The bedding-planes (where
such are recognisable) of these
erratic masses may occur at
high inclinations to the general
disposition of the clay matrix
which, itself, is often con-
torted.
Before the nomenclature
“block clays” had become
popular, the dip-complexity of
matrix and erratic—apart from
that of glacial boulder clays,
which is another story —was
considered to be a result of
thrusting. Latterly, however,
it has become fashionable to
attribute the contorted matrix
and the chaotically-dipping
erratics of block clays to
slumping, which is gravitational
movement down slopes.
In a great many cases, how-
ever, dip-complexity must be
attributed —as it is more in
accordance with observable
geological data —to tectonic
thrusting; the clay material
itself, also, may originate from
rock-flour produced by grind-
ing between the upper and
nether thrust-masses of rock.
Where wells sunk in search
for oil are expected to en-
counter thrust-zones, special
precautions are normally taken
to avoid damage to the casing
or drill-pipe, as instances are
known where casing or drill-
pipe, or both, have been
sheared and the lower portion
has been moved so far laterally
as to be irretrievably lost. On
the geological side, a thrust-
zone usually tnarks a funda-
mental change in structure
below the thrust, whereas, with
a slumped bed, it can be hoped
that no radical change of
structure occurs, thus saving
the geologist much work and
many headaches.
The September 10 press-
release from Timor states that
Ossulari No. 1 well had drilled
through 900 ft. of block-clay in
a week and that the drill-pipe
stuck and parted at 6755 ft.
This suggests that the Timor
block-clay at least in the
Ossulari area has been
affected by, and may have
originated from, thrusting, an
assumption which carries both
operational and structural im-
plications.
[At the time of going to press
Timor Oil, Ltd., announced that
the attempt to recover the drill-
pipe had failed and that the
Ossulari No. 1 well was being
abandoned.]
Vehicle-ferries versus Con-
tainer-ships
[By “Lookout”!
'T’he Princess of Tasmania,
-*■ carrying passenger-accom-
panied cars across Bass Strait,
is an almost certain winner.
Not so the Bass Trader, carry-
ing freight-vehicles only. Over-
seas experience with this type of
ship indicates that only about
a quarter of the weight carried
is freight-earning; prime-
movers and chassis making up
the other three-quarters. Such
ships must make four trips to
every one made by an ordinary
vessel of similar size to move
the same cargo. Short voyages
where the round-trip can be
made in a day or less are neces-
sary for them to succeed.
During the war loaded-
vehicles were landed on
beaches and driven to their
destinations without using
labor or cargo-gear. And these
landing - craft, subsequently
disposed of to private com-
panies, established the “roll-on,
roll-off” trade between Britain,
the Continent and Northern
Ireland. They have now been
replaced by ships specially
designed for the purpose —with
passenger - accommodation.
Ships that are similar in many
ways to the Princess of Tas-
mania.
The Bass Trader is intended
to carry cargo in loaded
trailers and in containers on
deck. Ships of this class have
also been used, both in Europe
and America, but they are
being superseded by specially
designed vessels carrying con-
tainers only.
Since 1932 the American
“seatrains” have been carrying
loaded railway-wagons. They,
too, have adopted the container
idea. These are unloaded from
their chassis aboard the sea-
trains by rollers alongside the
rail-tracks.
Even more revolutionary is
the 7800-ton Victory-type ship
adapted to carry uniform-
sized containers only. The
idea has been developed from
the war-time method of load-
ing cargo on pallets—uniform-
sized trays stowed by fork-
lifting trucks. Pallets halved
cargo-handling costs; con-
tainers have further drastically
cut them.
Conversion of the ship was
costly. Decks were removed
to within a foot of the shell-
plating, strength and buoyancy
being maintained by 4ft.-wide
sponsons fitted outside the hull
and by internal strengthening.
Winches and derricks were
replaced by two gantry-type
cranes spanning the holds and
travelling along rails outside
the opened-up hatchways. Six
symmetrical compartments
have guides into which the
containers fit neatly alongside
and on top of each other. They
are held rigid by their weight,
the guides and the interlocking
pontoon-type hatch - coveis.
Two tiers of containers are also
stowed atop the hatches.
Loading is simple' Each
container is lifted from its
chassis by the crane extended
outboard on cantilevers and
traversed sideways and fore-
and-aft to its allotted space.
Weight of contents is limited
to 20 tons. Each operation
takes about four minutes, and
the ship can be fully loaded
by one gang in about 12 hours!
That the conversion has
proved successful is shown by
the plans for a new container-
carrier. This vessel will have
a deadweight capacity of
17,000 tons, with machinery
and accommodation aft; 508
containers, each 27ft. x Bft. x
Bft., will be carried.
Only about 75 p.c. of all
cargo carried can be success-
fully containerised, so a hold
for non-container cargo will be
provided. Another two holds
will have removable tween-
decks, adapting them for con-
tainers or other cargo. These
three holds have conventional
cargo-handling gear in addition
to the cranes. About 5000 tons
of non-container cargo and
750,000 gallons of bulk or
liquid cargo will be carried in
addition to that in the con-
tainers.
Such a ship will only be
usable on overseas voyages, but
smaller container-carriers are
in operation on coastal trades.
Cargo-handling in this way is
a development from road-
hauliers’ transport vans.
It is two years since Aus-
tralian shipowners entered the
road-transport business, and
coastal ships have been using
containers in various forms for
several years. The recently
announced freight-concessions
reflect the success of both
ventures. Container-carriers
might be better than a “roll-
on, roll-off” freighter.


London airmail
From Herbert Holman
Tt would be interesting—and,
no doubt, revealing—to
hear the truth about stereo-
phonic sound. Has it taken
on? Is it worth while?
The atmosphere of virility,
enterprise, technical expertise
and prosperity at the Radio
Show (Earl’s Court) was cer-
tainly not conducive to the
suggestion that this innovation
has not fulfilled the expecta-
tions of its sponsors. Repre-
sentatives of the leading
manufacturers understandably
were not inclined to depreciate
stereo. Sales were “going along
very nicely.” It was “the thing
of the future.” And they all
enthused about the sets they
had installed in their own
homes. But it was noticeable
that the various firms had gone
to considerable trouble to-
provide demonstration-booths,
suggesting that the sales-
campaign for this line is
extremely vigorous.
The point of significance is
that stereo fits a little uncom-
fortably into the pattern of
modern sales-technique where
all the time the emphasis is on
change—scfap what you have
because it is out-of-date and
buy something new. If, for
example, a vacuum-cleaner
breaks-down, the representa-
tive from the “service” depart-
ment turns out to be a care-
fully drilled salesman. (“You
take my advice, ma’am. It’s
not worth repairing. Why, for
what it would cost you could
put down the first instalment
on our wonderful new model.
Let me arrange for you to
have one on trial. You’ll thank
me for it . . .”)
Sales of television-sets,
thanks to the easing of h.-p.
credit, are 80 per cent, higher
for the first half of 1959 than
for the corresponding period
of 1958. Since the saturation-
point must be approaching
(Britain’s 10-millionth TV-
licence is expected to be
announced at any moment),
manufacturers are increasingly
concerned with design. The
console model is going out
and the “slim-line” set, with
the 110-degree tube, is coming
in. Transistorised radio-sets
are replacing the other kind.
Radiograms are no longer in
demand, sales being nearly a
third less than in 1957.
This last circumstance, per-
haps, accounts for the develop-
ment of stereo. It remains to
be seen whether the project
will turn-out to be a revolution
or a fiasco. There are un-
resolved technical snags, rang-
ing from the complicated pick-
up to the difficulty, in modern
homes, of finding a room big
and empty enough to accom-
modate the equipment and the
volume of sound.
Uses of Leisure
Labor has gained a slight
advantage on points in the
preliminary exchanges in the
battle for votes.
The pamphlet, “Members
One of Another,” on the
Health Service is, apart from
irresponsibility as to the source
of the money, a reasoned and
well - considered document.
And “Leisure for Living,”
Labor’s policy for recreation
and the arts, is mature,
informed and reflects up-to-
date thinking.
While it is natural for the
party in Opposition to take the
initiative and to be more
generous with promises than
the party in Government, the
Conservatives’ poor showing
has disappointed their well-
wishers. Despite their beating
the Socialists by a few days
with the publication of the
comparatively sketchy “The
Challenge of Leisure,” the
Tories seem to be on the
defensive, and, where not, to
have fallen into the error of
“writing-down” their appeal.
(The comic-strip magazine,
“Form,” is hammered by the
Conservative “Daily Tele-
graph” as being “crude, raw,
amateurish and, in places,
vulgar.”)
What is the explanation?
On the one hand, it suggests
that the Labor policy-makers
are determined to break-
away from the old shibboleths
and parrot-cries which have
cost them so much disdain ;
they are trying to find a new,
more positive approach. On
the other, it indicates a wide
disparity between the perform-
ance of the Government
(notably of the Prime Minister)
and of the Central Office,
whose synthetic, clamorous
propaganda is out of tune
with the prevailing mood.
But leisure, whether viewed
as a political issue or as the
basis for dignified apprecia-
tion of the arts or for healthy
recreation in the next Parlia-
mentary term, is hardly likely
to sway the election. Most
people are concerned with
adding to their material pos-
sessions and experiences. The
arts interest a minority only.
That they are shamefully
undernourished by comparison
with- other, less-prosperous,
countries is beside the point.
They should be kept—and
keep themselves —out of party
politics.
Meanwhile, the Gallup-
polls show that the Conserva-
tives have increased their
prestige (helped considerably
by Mr. Macmillan’s assurance
and grasp of practicalities on
the TV-screen). It is unlikely
to be much affected by a tem-
porary and not very important
shortcoming such as this one.
Redgrave Triumph
The success of “The Aspern
Papers” is felicitous: it
endorses the merited honor of
Michael Redgrave’s knight-
hood, for few actors have ever
approached their art with
greater humility and self-
searching devotion ; besides a
performance of high distinc-
“ Iguanodon, iguanodon—never anything but
bloody iguanodon !”
tion he has also adapted the
play ; he has assembled a bril-
liant cast; and he has caused
a new theatre—the rebuilt
Queen’s —to have an encourag-
ing start.
First, a qualification. This
is a literary play and is bur-
dened by the limitations of its
kind: the dialogue is high-
flown and the substance is
neither big enough nor broad
enough for the stage. With a
theme so limited in interest to
any but the bookish, a drama-
tist would have sought to
provide contrast and color.
No character is under middle-
age and, altogether, they are
an unattractive bunch.
Henry James’s disappoint-
ment at his failure in the
theatre was to some extent
redeemed, posthumously, by
“The Innocents” which came
over well as refined melo-
drama. “The Aspern Papers”
has similar blood-creeping,
touches, but, because there is
nothing to compare with the
underlying evil in the other
play, they fail to shock.
Yet for two-thirds of the
evening the determined man-
of-letters in search of Aspern’s
unpublished papers whom
Redgrave has given the initials
“H.J.” keeps the attention and
upholds the suspense. But the
play falls apart after the over-
blown curtain at the end of
the second act, when the aged
recluse, Miss Bordereau
(played by Beatrix Lehmann
with all the thunder of antique
melodrama), catches him in
the act of opening the chest
and, after uttering the terrible
curse, “Publishing scoundrel!”
swoons into a death-fall.
The acting of Redgrave
(“H.J.”) and Flora Robson is
superlative. He is three distinct
persons and yet one. While
conspiring to get into the Bor-
dereau house in Venice, “H.J.”
is testy and overstrung ; once
admitted and engaged upon
his literary plunder he is self-
possessed and resourceful;
after his exposure, he is
thick-skinned and cynical.
Miss Robson touches the
heart with her eloquent sim-
plicity and agelessness as Tina
the niece, but doesn’t quite
bring-off the coup in the third
act where she implies that he
might have the papers if he
were “one of the family”—that
is to say, her husband. Basil
Dean’s production is expert
but a little over-indulged.
The limitations, though, are
in the material. Acting of
this calibre is rare indeed.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“The Piccadilly Bushman”
Without a doubt Ray Law-
ler has again written a masterly
play. A comedy-drama of
deadly serious intention, brim-
ful of ideas, charged with
boisterous humor, penetrating
dialogue and genuine drama-
tic incidents, it is a work that
will Create a stir wherever it
is staged. But, unlike “The
Doll,” it suffers from one
major, totally unexpected,
lack: it has no final act.
Lawler’s present concluding
act is in effect a fake, an
appalling anticlimax for an
audience ripe for enlighten-
ment. Audiences everywhere
are likely to judge it as such.
Those at the Comedy
Theatre, Melbourne, where the
play had its world premiere,
certainly did.
And they were right. If
ever a play needed some sort
of unpretentious dramatic dis-
tillation of the author’s argu-
ments —a meaningful pulling-
together of loose ends—it is
this one.
As it is, everything is left
up in the air; with the unfor-
tunate result that the message
—something to do with our
search, or, rather, our need for,
a national identity never
really gets past the footlights.
And that, surely, is fatal in a
didactic work.
The story-line is deceptively
simple. An English film-
director (John Huson) and a
scriptwriter (Don Pascoe)
have turned-up in Sydney to
film a book by Australian
author Douglas O’Shea, bring-
ing with them an Australian-
born couple actor Alec
Ritchie, who is to have a lead-
ing role in the film, and his
wife Meg. Author, script-
writer, director, actor and wife
squabble over alterations to
O’Shea’s original MS., thus
revealing their various atti-
tudes to good old Australia.
Whatever action there is—
and there isn’t much, other
than verbal action, which is
non-stop —takes place in the
gaudily decorated sunroom of
“B.H.P. executive” Lew
Leggat’s Vaucluse home. The
three central characters are
Ritchie, Meg and O’Shea —
vehicles for outstanding per-
formances by Guy Doleman,
Diana Davidson and John
Gray, respectively.
Ritchie has been working for
10 years at Stratford and the
Old Vic. The sophisticated
expatriate, he is “frightened at
that dirty word ‘colonial’ ”
and has devoted himself to
shedding everything—friends,
accent, tastes, etc. —that might
associate him with Australia.
Meg, a warm-hearted nympho-
maniac-dipsomaniac (a pretty
combination), comes under
this category. So do five other
of the play’s sharply-drawn
—perhaps overdrawn —charac-
ters : the dinkum, unashamedly
Aussie O’Shea; Lew Leggat,
who never tires of telling how
his grandfather was one of the
six men who first put Broken
Hill on the map ; his gushing,
celebrity-hunting wife Isabel,
who with equal energy sets out
to climb every social ladder
within reach ; and, to a lesser
extent, the “liaison public-
relations officer” Grace Clive,
and the boathouse boy Scone
Corcoran.
Only one of these characters
escapes the biting Lawler lash,
and that is O’Shea.
O’Shea (consistently) and
Meg (intermittently) are the
only positive characters. And,
as such, their condemnation
of our condescending attitude
to the aborigines; of 'the
Englishman’s attitude to the
colonials (“There is something
second-rate about even the
best of them”); of the attitude
of the overseas film-director
who insists on creating a false
image of Australia; of our
alleged “national inferiority
complex,” evoke our sympathy
and often our agreement.
4 Everyone in “The Piccadilly
Bushman” has an attitude to
Australia. They either want to
accept it or want to reject it,
but none of them rightly under-
stands Australia for what it is
—except, presumably, O’Shea.
They all want something
which, for a multitude of
reasons, they don’t know how
to get. Alec wants a status
denied him in Australia; his
wife a normal marital status
with her husband. O’Shea
wants the genuine qualities of
his country recognised and
respected for what they are
worth. The film-director wants
to preserve his traditional
approach to film-making ; the
scriptwriter likewise.
None of these wants is satis-
fied. No one quite knows where
he or she stands —left leg in one
camp, right in another; secure
now, the reverse a minute later.
Development either one way or
the other, argues Lawler, is
virtually impossible, as none
of them is prepared to —or,
rather, is capable of —change.
However, all this is rather
obvious. But the answer isn’t.
And here Lawler unfortunately
doesn’t offer us anything new,
and what he does say we have
heard before (both in “The
Doll” and elsewhere): If people
can live happily with their
illusions, best leave them alone ;
but if they can’t, if they grow
bitter and emotionally corrupt
as Alec Ritchie does, then some-
thing will have to be done about
it, the guilty illusions will have
to be unmasked. There will
have to be a fresh, more honest
start.
The trouble is that the
problem, barely stated in the
three acts, remains hopelessly
unresolved, trying out for an
Ibsen or a Shaw to thunder
home his conclusions on what
has, gone before —the moral of
the story in fact —before stage-
hands yank down the final
curtain and erect an impene-
trable barrier between audience
and author.
It’s no use claiming that this
would inevitably reduce the
play to mere propaganda, or
pulpit-preaching. It has been
done before, and it can be done
again, successfully.
Instead, we get a few pointed
remarks from O’Shea and Meg,
and a miserly ration of
aboriginal folklore, excellent in
itself, but clumsily naive and
ineffective in the context of
the drama; a device which
seriously weakens the preceding
and following dialogues, which,
on the whole, are superb in
their naturalness and relevance
to each of the situations
presented to us by the play-
wright.
This play has no place for
obscurity, for its author’s inten-
tion was obviously to instruct
a wrong-thinking audience, and
to clarify contemporary prob-
lems. It goes a long way
towards doing this, but falls
a fraction short of its admir-
able goal. In doing so, how-
ever, it still rises far above
most other drama in our com-
mercial theatre.
On the production side,
John McCallum’s skilled hand
is everywhere evident, from the
near-faultless c a s ting and
staging to the pretty-pretty,
yet extremely effective, back-
drop of the Sydney Harbor
Bridge—complete with flicker-
ing lights at night and, when
the sun shines, seagull calls and
light shimmering on suitable
expanses of blue-green sea.
" M. G. S.
t£t
Joseph Krips
At the Town Hall last
Saturday night the burly
Austrian conductor succeeded
in infusing into the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra much of
his own enormous dynamism ;
the result was a night of
memorable music-making, with
the~ orchestra giving its best
work in several years.
Krips began with a sparkling
reading of Mozart’s “Haffner”


KUCHING'S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street,
SYDNEY
Symphony the opening
allegro all bustling energy;
the andante a well-controlled
stream of lyrical tranquillity;
the rhythms of the minuet
spun with courtly grace ; and
the presto driven along at top
tempo, exhilarating in its
musical joy-of-life.
Next, a leap of over a
century for Vaughan"
Williams’s “Fantasia on a
Theme of Tallis.” The theme
may be from Thomas Tallis,
but the wonderfully fertile
enrichment of it for string-
orchestra is Williams at his
best —which is the best since
Purcell in English music.
Under Krips’s sensitive and
understanding treatment
which certainly gives the lie
to the old claim that no Con-
tinental conductor completely
understands this so-English
music, with its utter simplicity,
refinement and restraint—the
harmonic colors glowed richly,
and the flavor he gave it was
distinctly liturgical; as, indeed,
it should be. The beauty of
the playing owed much to the
quartet work of the four prin-
cipal desks: Ernest Llewellyn
(concert - master), Ronald
Ryder (2nd violin), Robert
Pikler (viola) and John Painter
(’cello).
The first performance in
Australia of Australian com-
poser Robert Hughes’s “Sin-
fonietta” brought to light a
first-class work, written only
two years ago. Of sound con-
struction and organisation, full-
bodied, alive with invention,
melodically and harmonically
attractive, fresh in its idiom
yet with no exaggerations of
style, it is eminently listenable,
with a slow movement of
especial beauty. The com-
poser, who was present, should
certainly have been well
pleased with the orchestra’s
inspired work on it.
After the interval, a Beet-
hoven Fifth that was electrify-
ing right from the statement
of the opening four-note theme.
The orchestra roared into top-
gear at once to limn with
tremendous zest this initial
struggle of Titans. The weary
giants rested in the gentle set
of variations in the andante ;
gave signs of stirring again
during the scherzo, in which
the 'cellos and basses brooded
and mocked alternately ; then
came to vivid life with a magni-
ficent claim to triumph of the
spirit in the final allegro, with
the trombones joining in a
stunning climax.
Artbursts
Jeffrey Smart
Derived though they are
from stylisations long familiar
in France and America, Jeffrey
Smart’s paintings at Sydney
Macquarie Galleries are never-
theless a significant contribu-
tion to Australian art because
they bring to this country a
way of coping with the con-
temporary scene at its most
contemporary.
Brick walls and new brick
buildings, bus-stops, beach-
esplanades, park-seats, deck-
chairs, rubbish-bins, discarded
newspapers, traffic-lights, sky-
signs, trucks and spare-tyres:
these are the strange objects
whose portraits he paints with
loving and meticulous care;
and, intractably new and un-
paintable as they might seem
to painters more concerned
with Nature than with Man,
nevertheless he unquestionably
turns them into art.
This is quite a different
approach from the romantic
fuzz and light filtered through
trees of city-paintings derived
from the Impressionists;
different again from the
romantic painting of old build-
ings in the slums for their
color and tupnbledown charm
with which Sali Herman and
others have made us familiar.
There is no fuzz, nothing
antique in Smart’s paintings;
everything is as precise in form
as he can draw it, and the
newer and glossier it is the
better he likes it.
Of course he is able to make
art of this brave new world
only by developing his own
form of romanticism: which is
to isolate and dispose his forms
and colors in strange tones and
perspectives so that they seem
to live in some timeless, faintly
desolate tranquillity, like land-
scapes seen in a dream or
(even when they are inhabited)
left empty after some atomic
cataclysm. It is a surrealist
view of modern Sydney, not
always succeeding, but at its
best strangely haunting.
Films
“The Goddess”
Paddy Chayefsky, who in
“Marty” and “Bachelor Party”
showed how keen were his per-
ceptions of lower-middle-class
American character, here
probes deeper, though some-
times a trifle glibly, into
psychological disturbances, and
comes-up with an intense
episodic study of a chattering
neurotic girl who, partly by
accident, partly by calculated
promiscuity, reaches film-
stardom, despite a poor intelli-
gence—no rare phenomenon
in our time.
Beset by domestic unhappi-
ness, her shallow character
leading her into greater lone-i
liness the higher she climbs,
her arrogance detested by
everyone, she finishes-up before
she is 30 teetering, full of self-
pity, on the verge of insanity.
Right from its snapshot
opening the story moves with
remorseless logic ; dialogue is
first - rate ; the numerous
domestic scenes are at times
so realistic as to be almost
embarrassing ; and there is one
notably brilliant episode when
the alleged actress puts on an
act at the funeral of the
mother she despised and
patronised.
As the self-tortured star,
Kim Stanley makes a most
impressive debut. Clearly
presenting every facet of a
complex character, she sus-
tains high-voltage emotion and
limns a growing mental dis-
turbance with great skill.
At Sydney Victory.
❖
“I Want to Live”
Even the most rabid up-
holder of capital punishment
stands to have his views
shaken _ by the meticulous
preparations for execution by
gas-chamber which take-up the
final 30 minutes of this sear-
ing drama from the pen of
Pulitzer Prize-winner Edward
Montgomery.
Based on the case of Bar-
bara Grahame, who went to
the San Quentin death-chamber
four years ago for her part
in a murder, the script, rightly
or wrongly, makes her the inno-
cent victim of a circumstantial
frame-up by her two com-
panions, who did the killing
in her absence.
Barbara, wholly amoral,
flash and jaunty, living on the
fringes of crime, defying
authority right up till the
cyanide-fumes overcome her,
is played by Susan Hayward
—a performance which justi-
fiably won her last year’s
Academy Award. It is a role
tailor-made for her, replete
with richly dramatic situations,
beyond the proper confines of
which she never steps.
Director Robert Wise, mak-
ing no concessions to stark
horror, avoiding the cheaply
sensational while exposing the
press-sensationalism which too
often surrounds murder-cases
involving women, brings a
deep compassion to the presen-
tation of the condemned
woman’s last hours.
At Sydney Regent.
♦>
“Ask Any Girl”
David Niven moves with his
customary serenity and suavity
through this highly-polished,
sophisticated comedy with a
neat basic idea —advertising-
research by Niven into the
man-hunting proclivities of the
human female. Shirley Mac-
laine (developing into quite a
bright comedienne) is his fresh-
from-the-country employee;
Gig Young is his very gay
brother ; and Australian actor
Rod Taylor asserts some mas-
culinity as a red-blooded suitor
out of luck. It is all very
frothy, the laughs come easily,
and the dialogue has a good
snap to it.
At Sydney Liberty.
“The Naked Maja”
Hollywood again puts his-
tory through the mincer in
this expensive, vulgar second-
rater about Spanish painter
Goya’s affair with the Duchess
of Alba. Ava Gardner hams
her way painfully through the
role of the haughty blueblood
who was mistress to many and
supposed master of Goya;
Anthony Franciosa does
better with the painter, but is
handicapped by a wretched
script and wooden dialogue.
Even the reproductions of
some of the Goya masterpieces
at the film’s beginning aren’t
very satisfactory.
On M.G.M. Circuit.


COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET as at 30th June, 1959.
LIABILITIES.
Central Banking Business—
Capital
Reserve Fund
Rural Credits Department—
Capital
Reserve Fund
Mortgage Bank Department—
Capital
Reserve Fund
Industrial Finance Department
Capital
Reserve Fund
£
4,000,000
20,871,813
2,714,000
1,330,121
5,428,000
840,314
5,429.000
3,833,572
44,452,820
Special Reserve —Premium on gold sold .. .. .. .. 4,754,954
Notes on issue 391,457,208
Deposits—-
Special accounts of trading banks .. .. .. .. 250,159,000
Other deposits of trading banks .. .. .. .. . 29,996,884
Other deposits, bills payable and other liabilities (including
provision for contingencies) .. .. .. .. .. 304,735,723
Total 1,025,556,589
n u Aooiiio.
Gold and balances held abroad (including money at short call)
Australian notes and coin .. ..
Cheques and bills of other banks .. ‘ "
Commonwealth Government Securities (including Commonwealth
Treasury Bills)
Securities of other governments and of local and semi-governmental
authorities
Bills receivable and remittances in transit
Bank premises (at cost less amounts written off) ..
Loans, advances, etc. (after deducting provision for debts con-
sidered bad or doubtful) :
Central Banking Business .. .. ..
Rural Credits Department
Mortgage Bank Department
Industrial Finance Department
Other assets .. .. ..
£
420,834,330
2,339,383
5,667,860-
439,510,210
36,824,447
9,005,097
1,274,261
72,300,761
6,109,296
27,100,368
4,590,576
Total
. .1,025,556,589
Dr.
Note. — Inter-departmental accounts totalling £63,457,339 have been offset
PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1959.
Cr.
Central Banking Business—
To National Debt Sinking Fund .. .. .. .. .. 2,100,158
To Commonwealth Bank Reserve Fund 2,100,158
Note Issue Department—
To Commonwealth Treasury .. .. .. .. 10,935,095
Rural Credits Department—
To Rural Credits Department Reserve Fund 113,421
To Rural Credits Development Fund .. .. .. .. 113,420
Mortgage Bank Department—
To Mortgage Bank Department Reserve Fund ~ .. .. 122,729
Industrial Finance Department—
To Industrial Finance Department Reserve Fund .. .. 512,359
Total , 15,997,340
By Profits (after provision for contingencies)—
Central Banking Business ...
Note Issue Department
Rural Credits Department
Mortgage Bank Department
Industrial Finance Department
£
4,200,310
10,935,095
226,841
122,729
512,359
Total
15,997,340
/c , w e certify that the aijov 6 Balance-sliect, compiled from Statements furnished by the several Offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
iVr fS fvtfr i , (Sgd.) H. C. COOMBS, Governor.
(Sgd.) W. P. ESKDALE, Chief Accountant. „ Sydney, 20th August, 1959.
COMMONWEALTH TRADING BANK OF AUSTRALIA
BALANCE SHEET as at 30th June, 1959.
LIABILITIES.
Capital 5,429,000
Reserve Fund 3,295,855
Deposits, bills payable and other liabilities (including provision
for contingencies) 296,945,848
Balances due to other banks .. .. 1,125,456
. . 306,796,159
Total
AOS-Cj 1 o.
Coin, bullion, notes and cash at bankers .. .. .. ~
Money at short call—
(a) London
(b) Elsewhere
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank
Cheques and bills of other banks and balances with, and due from
other banks ..
Treasury bills—
(a) Australian Governments
(b) Other governments
Public, securities (excluding treasury bills) —
(a) Australian Governments . . .. ..
(b) Other governments
(c) Local and semi-governmental authorities
Bills receivable and remittances in transit
Bank premises (at cost less amounts written off)
Loans, advances and bills discounted (after deducting provision for
debts considered bad or doubtful)
Other assets
it
18,647,388
1,500,000
1,925,000
30,150,000
4,064,466
3,000,000
60,891,762
1,298,090
42,008.776
4,513,997
129,200,708
• 3,595,972
306,796,159
Total
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1959.
Cr.
To National Debt Sinking Fund .. .. .. .. .. 300,334
To Commonwealth Trading Bank Reserve Fund .. .. .. 300i334
Totai ' - 600,668
£
By profits (after provision for contingencies) .. .. .. 600,668
Total 'fioo,o6B
i - certlf y that the above Balance-sheet, compiled from Statements furnished by the several Offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
(Sgd.) A. 'N. ARMSTRONG, General Manager . , (Sgd.) H. C. COOMBS. Governor .
(kgd.) S. J. HEATLE\, Chief Accountant. Sydney, 20tii August, 1959
COMMONWEALTH SAVINGS BANK OF
BALANCE SHEET as at 30th June, 1959
AUSTRALIA
LIABILITIES
Reserve Fund
Depositors’ balances and accrued interest
Other liabilities (including provision for contingencies) ..
Total
£
10,326,385
. . 764,816,972
.. 19,042,456
.. 794,185,813
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1959.
Cr.
To National Debt Sinking Fund .. .. .. .. .. 407,936
To Savings Bank Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. .. 407,936
Total 815,872
£
By Profits (after provision for payments amounting' to £507,071
due to and £20,235 due by State Authorities under Savings Bank
Amalgamation Agreements and after provision for contingencies) 815,872
Total .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 815,872
We certify that the above Balance-sheet, compiled from Statements furnished by the several Offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
(Sgd.) H. G. T. SEARLE, Chief, Superintendent. (Sgd.) H. C. COOMBS, Governor.
(Sgd.) S. J. HEATLEY, Chief Accountant. Sydney, 20tii August, 1959.
Certificates as to the correctness of these Accounts have been given by the Auditor-General for the Commonwealth (Mr. H. C. Newman).


Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: Bff 1771—8 W 8088
Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdale” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
R. H. ALLEN
P. R. LEVY
Members of The Sydney
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911.
M. R. L. DOWLING
A. P. REYNOLDS
Stock Exchange.
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Paper Manufacturers, Ltd.
A growing proportion of Australia’s
paper demand is being satisfied
from domestic production, but, despite
recent large-scale development in the
industry, reliance on overseas supply
is still considerable.
In 1939 Australian annual output
reached nearly 100,000 tons of jpaper
and paper-board, produced mainly from
waste-paper and imported pulp. The
subsequent establishment of mills for
pulping natural timber has enabled
rapid expansion, and output now
amounts to about 450,000 tons a year.
Today the major deficiency in home
supply lies in the newsprint field, and
stems primarily from the shortage of
local timbers suitable for the produc-
tion of pulp.
By far the largest manufacturer of
wrapping-papers and cardboard in the
Commonwealth, Australian Paper
Manufacturers, Ltd., makes a valuable
contribution toward national self-
sufficiency. Last term A.P.M. set new
production records, lifting output of
paper and board by 11 p.c. from 248,164
tons to 275,069 tons. At the same time
woodpulp production was increased to
92,581 tons (up 2945 tons) and the pulp-
grade range was extended. Production
was only slightly ahead of sales, which
rose by 18,691 tons (7 p.c.) to 269,248
tons: —
, —-—Production , Sales.
Wood- Paper and Paper and
Year to pulp, Boards, Boards,
June 30, Tons. Tons. Tons.
1954 .. .. 61,609 166,276 168,976
1955 .. .. 73,245 196,008 188,358
1956 . . . . 70,900 206,557 210,771
1957 .. .. 87,898 234,220 225,869
1958 . . . . 89,636 248,164 250,557
1959 . . . . 92,581 275,069 269,248
A.P.M. came into being in 1926 as an
operating-co. for Australasian Paper and
Pulp (established in 1897), and Cumber-
land Board Mills, the parent cos. amal-
gamating in 1948 and going into volun-
tary liquidation in 1954, when members
exchanged their holdings for scrip in
A.P.M. Shareholders have put-up a
large part of the funds in the business
over the last decade, and paid capital,
£3,200,000 in 1948, now stands -at
£17,000,000, including £3,500,000 in 6 p.c.
prefs.
In February, 1958, 1,400,000 £1 7 p.c.
unsecured notes were issued to share-
holders in the ratio of one note for
every ten ords. held. These notes are
convertible into ords. at par in 1961.
The funds provided by this issue have
been used to extend and modernise
various of the co.’s mills, etc. The co.
now proposes to make another issue of
£1 unsecured notes to shareholders, in
this case, in the ratio of three notes for
every ten ords. held as at August 25,
1959. This issue is convertible on
January 30, 1965. It will bring in
£4,600,000, which will be used to increase
machine capacity and so accelerate the
co.’s expansion programme. The co.
also intends to submit to pref. and ord.
shareholders a proposal for the con-
version of prefs. to ords. If accepted,
shareholders will receive three ords.,
which will be ex rights to the currently
proposed note issue, for every four prefs.
they now hold.
The co. owns seven mills, four in
Victoria (at Maryvale, Fairfield, Mel-
bourne and Broadford), one in N.S.W.
(at Botany), another in Queensland (at
Petrie) and one in Perth (at Bayswater).
Its several subsidiaries provide strength
and diversity to an already stable
organisation. A.P.M. Forests Pty. con-
trols extensive pine-plantations in Vic-
toria (Gippsland) and Queensland
(Bribie Island), and makes a valuable
contribution to the co.’s woodpulp
requirements. Maddingley Brown Coal
Pty. operates an opencut in Victoria
(at Bacchus Marsh) and supplies coal
to the three mills in and around Mel-
bourne, as well as to outside customers.
The co. operates a limestone-quarry at
Buchan in East Gippsland. The lime-
stone is used by the pulp-mill at Mary-
vale. Recently another limestone lease
was acquired nearby at Rocky Camp
and is now in process of development.
Last term, A.P.M. Fibercraft was in-
corporated to manufacture and sell
fibre-mouldings in Australia and N.Z.
under exclusive licence from Deutsche
Fibrit Gesellschaft of Krefeld, West
Germany—components will be moulded
from woodpulp for use in motor-
vehicles, TV-receivers, radios, etc.
Plans to drill a stratigraphical bore-
hole in the Latrobe Valley (Gippsland),
the area in which the Maryvale mill is
situated, have been advanced, and last
July A.P.M. Development Pty. was
registered. A petroleum - prospecting
licence has been taken-out, but the
directors emphasise “that the purpose of
undertaking this drilling is to provide
geological knowledge at depth without
any immediate expectation of finding
oil.”
A peel, Ltd., registered in 1957 and
jointly owned by A.P.M. and Cellulose
Australia, Ltd., is erecting a mill at
Millicent (S.A.), which will utilise the
softwood-forest resources of the s.-e. of
that State for the manufacture of pulp
and tissue-papers.
Concurrently with rising productive
capacity comes an increasing demand
for woodpulp and other raw materials.
A.P.M. has given considerable attention
to the large eucalypt forest in the Huon
Valley of southern Tasmania, and at
present negotiations are in hand with
the Tas. Government, the results of
which will decide whether a pulp-mill
will be established there to meet in part
the requirements of the expanded Botany
mill. Pine - planting was continued and
last term 2900 acres were planted in
Victoria and Queensland.
Despite some increases in manufac-
turing-costs, the selling-price of all major
lines remained steady last year. The net
value of sales was £29,001,317 compared
with the previous year’s figure of
£27,180,717. During recent months prices
of competitive overseas products have
weakened further, but import - restric-
tions are providing a buffer against the
effect of this competition.
Last term pre-tax earnings advanced
by £127,979 to £3,733,409, and net earn-
ings increased by £115,637 to £2,241,295.
The higher profit was written after pro-
viding £1,492,114 (up £12,342) for taxa-
tion and £2,485,828 (up £185,777) for
depreciation ; but, as in previous years,
the tax provision was calculated after
drawing on a provision for deferred-tax
(raised during the years when special
allowances were made for initial depre-
ciation), a net £98,002 being transferred
from this account:
Parent Only.
, Dividends
Net Prefs. Ord. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. 6.5 p.c. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1954. .1,476,708 190,312 893,363 393,033 3,086,360
Unexplained reduction, £6BOO .. 3,079,560
7.5 p.c.
1955. .1,690,089 210,000 1,010,611 469,478 3.549.038
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Added on -consolidation, £53,444 .. 3,602,482
Tax overprovided, £21,111 .. .. 3,623,593
From contingency reserve, £5780 .. 3,617,813
7.5 p.c.
1956. .1,726,524 210,000 1,010,611 505,913 4,123,726
Share premiums, £lBB9 .. .. 4,125,615
From contingency reserve, £6120 . . 4,119,495
8 p.c.
1957. 210,000 1,080,000 578,734 4,698,229
Tax overprovided, £98,587 . . . . 4,796,816
From contingency reserve, £5731 . . 4,791,085
1958. 210,000 1,080,000 835,658 5,626,743
From contingency reserve, £6450 . . 5,620,293
1959. .2,241,295 210,000 1,080,000 951,295 6,571,588
Unchanged at 8 p.c., the ord. div. was
covered with £951,295 to spare, earnings
after meeting the pref. commitment
equalling 15 p.c. on ord. capital,
compared with 14.3 p.c., 12.3 p.c. and
11.2 p.c. back to 1956. After raising
the div. rate from 7 p.c. to p.c. in
1952, Australasian Paper and Pulp could
only manage a 4 p.c. distribution in
1953, the rate rising to 6y p.c. in 1954
(when A.P.M. assumed direct responsi-
bility), 1\ p.c. in 1955, and to the current
8 p.c. level in 1957. Reserves were in-
creased by £944,845 to £6,571,588.
During the year the book-value of
fixed assets was increased to £24,400,679


RALPH W. KING & YUILL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
113 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. BE 5771-3-3
406 COEEINS STREET, MELBOURNE. 67-5089, 67-5080
Cables and Telegrams: “Ralphlting” Sydney and Melbourne
Branches at Grafton and Armidale
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. 1,. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Ploor, The National Mutual Life Building;,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 312761 (4 Dines) P.O. Box No. ISB7W
(up £1,219,439 on the value at previous
balance-date). The investment in other
cos. of £210,001 (up £149,999, being
further calls made by Apcel, Ltd.) repre-
sents the amount paid-up on shares
allotted by Apcel.
Loans on mortgage rose by £80,727
to £702,189:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1957. 1958. 1959.
Pref. .. £3,500,000 £3,500,000 £3,500,000
Ord. . . 13,500,000 13,500,000 13,500,000
Reserves .. 4,698,229 5,626,743 6,571,588
Minority interest 26,397 28,814
Debentures .. 3,250,000 3,250,000 3,250,000
Mortgages .. 653,162 621,462 702,189
Notes . . . . 700,000 1,400,000
Deposits .. 750,634 308,546 295,027
Overdrafts .. 1,702,604 809,027 624,300
Creditors .. 1,325,332 1,351,740 1,718,870
Tax reserve .. 2,307,527 2,012,066 1,905,956
Staff funds . . 598,685 710,289 850,597
Final divs. . . - 780,000 780,000 780,000
£33,092,570 £33,198,687. £34,998,527
Fixed assets .. 23,321,718 23,181,240 24,400,679
Stock .. .. 5.118,953 4,917,648 5,093,402
Book debts . . ' 4,629,399 5,022,297 5,294,445
Bonds, etc. . . 22,500 17,500
Shares other cos. 60,002 210,001
£33,092,570 £33,198,687 £34,998,527
Theoretical working-capital at £4,118,013
was £323,064 higher than in the previous
year. Main contributing factors to the
improvement were: stock at £5,093,402
(up £175,754), book debts at £4,530,537
(up £208,355), overdraft at £524,300
(down £284,727) and creditors at
£1,718,870 (up £367,130).
Tariff protection and import-restric-
tions continue to shield A.P.M. from
the effects of weakness in world paper-
markets, but in the opinion of the
directors real dangers still exist. With
this in mind representations have been
made to the Minister, the outcome of
which are not yet known, in the hope
that Government policy and procedure
will be stiffened in the application of
Australian anti-dumping legislation.
In another sphere, prospects of possible
takeover bids, especially from overseas
interests, are causing directors some con-
cern. The takeover merchant is more
active today than ever before, and a
co. of A.P.M.’s obvious calibre could
well attract his attention. With this in
mind—“overseas control of any section
of industry could be contrary to the
interests of Australian shareholders,
especially in the long term . . . and of the
Australian public —the co.
intends to move amendments to its
articles which will aim at preventing
control of the co. from falling into non-
Australian hands.
At 375. 3d. the f.-p. £1 ords. would
return 4.3 p.c. from an 8 p.c. distribution.
The £1 convertible notes currently
fetching 335. 6d. would yield 4.2 p.c.
Rights to the new issue of notes sold
recently at 10s. 7d. Net tangible asset
backing for the ords. at June 30 (con-
solidated accounts) was 295. 9d. and for
the prefs. £6 14s. 9d.
City Mutual Life
T>articipating fully in the Australian
post-war life-assurance boom, the
80-year-old City Mutual has doubled
both its assets and income within the
last nine years. Due to City Mutual’s
status of a wholly mutual concern, the
policyholders reaped the benefits through
increased bonus-rates —lifted on no fewer
than seven occasions in the last eight
years.
The society, which writes ordinary-
life policies, operates throughout the
Commonwealth, and at December 31
last had £163,908,594 of assurances on
its books. This was a rise of £19,608,594,
or 13.6 p.c., on the preceding year’s
figures.
Income for the year ended December
31, 1958, was £7,037,275 (up £648,817):
Writ- Total
ten Assets.
Dee., Income. Claiini. Expenses. Off. Increase
£ £ £ £ £
Profit, sale property, £25,897 .. ■]
1953. . 4,031,907 1,128,257 644,266 78,585 1 2,269,237
To general reserve, £60,000 ..
Profit, sale property, £73,881 .. '
Interest from prior years, £20,565..
Tax-refund, £85,607 .. .. .. o onn
1954.. 4,566,216 1,245,472 677,450 89,918
To general reserve, £200,000
To deferred repairs, £15,000 ..
Profit, sale property, £10,573 ..'
Tax-refund, £94,418 ..
1955.. 5,046,519 1,474,846 734,579 78,431 -3,212,280
To general reserve, £lOO,OOO
To staff fund, £15,000 .. ..
Profit sale assets, £48,310 .. ..'
Tax overprovided, £34,000 .. ..
1956. . 5,711,447 1,638,098 821,306 88.356 6 ’ ‘ *’ ‘
To general reserve, £lOO,OOO ..
Profit sale assets, £34,065 .. ..'
Repairs prov. written-back, £33,206
1957.. 6,352,458 1,749,577 923,045 68,244 3,990,952
To general reserve, £150,000 ..
Loss sale assets, £47,735 .. .. '
1958. . 7,037,275 1,969,509 919,915 39,069 3,812,977
To general reserve, £lOO,OOO .. J
Net premium income (£4,960,617) was
up by £375,528. Divs., interest and rent
received increased by £309,289 to
£2,076,658, after deducting taxes, rates
and other charges. Claims paid-out to
policyholders were £219,932 higher at
£1,969,509, taking almost 28 p.c. of the
higher income, as compared with 27.5
p.c. in the preceding term. The expense-
rate, however, was cut-down by 1.4 p.c.
to 10.4 p.c. of the “total normal in-
come” :
Income— 1957. - 1958.
Premiums, etc £4,585,089 £4,960,617
Interest, divs., etc. .. 1,767,369 2,076,658
Surplus sale assets, etc... 34,065
Total £6,386,523 £7,037,275
Outgo and charges—
Paid to policyholders .. 1,749,577 1,969,509
Expenses* .. .. .. 956,289 1,006,719
Increased actuarial liability 2,153,817 2,282,059
Total £4,859,683 £5,258,287
Surplus 1,526,840 1,778,988
* Includes taxes, depreciation and contribution to
staff fund.
After providing £2,282,059 to cover
increased actuarial liabilities, the year’s
net surplus was £252,148 better at
£1,778,988.
Together with £29,734 brought for-
ward from the preceding year, the total
amount available for appropriation was
£1,808,722. Of this sum, £1,663,660 was
allocated to provide reversionary bonuses
on scales which were “increased again
substantially,” and £17,804 earmarked
for interim bonuses paid. General re-
serve benefited by £lOO,OOO (down
£50,000), and the carry-forward to the
current term was £27,258:
1956. ' 1957. 1958.
Surplus earned* .. £1,293,120 £1,526,840 £1,778,988
Excess provisions,
etc 34,000 33,206
Brought forward 43,272 45,306 29,734
Total surplus. £1,370,392 £1,605,352 £1,808,722
Bonuses to policy-
holders! .. 1,165,086 1,390,618 1,681,464
To write down assets. 60,000 35,000
To reserve .. 100,000 150,000 100,000
To carry forward 45,306 29,734 27,258
* Includes surplus on realisation assets. t Includes
provision for interim bonuses.
The rate of interest, earned after taxes,
went up by 4s. 3d. p.c. to £5 2s. 4d. p.c.,
further widening the margin between the
actual interest-rate and the 2\ p.c. (on
net premiums) assumed when estimating
policy-liabilities. The interest factor
again contributed to the progressive im-
provement of results and bonus-rates.
There were no significant variations in
the society’s investment-pattern. As in
the preceding three years, advances
under mortgages (including home-pur-
chase loans) increased at a slightly faster
rate than the investment in Government
securities. Together, these two items
accounted for more than 74 p.c. of the
funds employed:
1957. p.c. 1958. p.c.
Com’wealth stock £13,154,441 33.6 £14,293,993 33.3
Local-govt, stock 1,050,894 2.6 1,275,706 3.0
Shares and debs. 6,760,335 17.3 7,048,624 16.4
Mortgages . . 14,405,345 36.9 16,211,737 37.8
Loans on policies 1,234,510 3.2 1,438,063 3.4
Debtors, etc. .. 846,896 2.2 970,015 2.3
Cash, etc. .. 367,023 0.9 396,936 0.9
Properties .. 1,272,358 3.3 1,269,705 2.9
Total ..£39,091,802 £42,904,779
During the year under review, assets
increased by £3,812,977, after providing
£39,069 for depreciation and totalled
£42,904,779 at December 31, 1958. The
life-fund stood at £40,072,722, and
visible reserves at £1,477,258.
The continuing upward trend in
bonuses, and the new tax-concessions
featured by the current Budget (£4OO
a year paid by the taxpayer in premiums
is now deductible) combine to enhance
the advantages of life-assurance as a
secure form of investment and pro-
tection.
Another attractive feature of a life-
policy is the possibility of obtaining a
housing-loan on reasonable terms —an
important advantage under conditions of
tight credit.
The co. recently bought the whole
of the issued capital of Perpetual General
Insurance and Guarantee Co., Ltd., thus
entering the fire-and-general field in com-
mon with other leading Australian life-
offices.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PETER SELWYN BETTS late of
Merrylands.— I TAKE NOTICE that
TIIORA GWYNNE BETTS has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2157 of 1959
on the ground of desertion for three
years If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Macquarie Street Sydney by
the 23rd day of November 1959 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from K. H. WILSON & CO.,
of 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
General Credits Ltd.
First mortgage debenture stock
SHORT TERM
RETURN UP TO
0
0
PER ANNUM
12 months 5 %
9 . 4|%
6 . 4%
3 . . 31%
LONG TERM
RETURN UP TO
0
o
PER ANNUM
5-10 years 7%
4 . . * 65%
3 . . . 6%
2 . . . 5i%
Cumulative stock carrying 62% compounded on
yearly rests with currencies of 5J5 years. Interest
is paid quarterly free of exchange.
Applications must be made on the forms
enclosed in the Prospectus, which can be
obtained from :
ALL MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGE,
COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LTD. OR
GENERAL CREDITS LTD.,
393 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
UNDERWRITERS: J. B. WERE & SON *
Miilaquin Sugar Co.
■\/riLLAQUiN operates two
crushing - mills and a
refinery at Bundaberg (Q.),
and, in addition, draws an
income from considerable
holdings of shares and public
securities (entered at cost at
£548,381 on June 30, 1959),
and its subsidiary, Bundaberg
Distilling Co. This co., in spite
of being handicapped by high
excise-duty on rum, main-
tained a basic 10 p.c. dividend
rate, and, in addition, threw-in
a “special bonus” of 21 p.c.,
“to commemorate Queens-
land’s Centenary.” However,
directors warn that this bonus
is not a permanent addition to
the basic div.-rate.
Besides milling its own cane,
Miilaquin crushes cane for
other growers, assigned to it by
the Central Sugar Cane Prices
Board.
Climatic conditions last
season were favorable. The
co. crushed 464,846 tons of
cane, including 19,029 tons
from its own plantations
(covering 2035 acres near
Bundaberg).
From this, 62,904 tons (up
20,832 tons) of raw sugar was
produced. Sales of refined
sugar, golden-syrup and treacle
were said to be higher than
in the previous year, but turn-
over figures aren’t disclosed.
Earnings for the year ended
June 30, 1959, were good. Net
profit recovered from the pre-
vious year’s dip (caused by a
poor harvest), and was £43,356
better at £175,136, equal to
23.35 p.c. on paid capital. This
was arrived-at after providing
£180,730 for depreciation (up
£78,510), and setting aside an
undisclosed amount for taxa-
tion:—
Re-
Jne., Profit. —* —Dividends n sen es.
£ £
’50.. 87,918 13 p.c. = 65.000 488.057
'51.. 88,557 13 „ „ 65,000 511,614
From inner reserves, £20,000 531,614
’52.. 85,465 13 p.c. = 65,000 552,079
’53.. 97,799 15 „ „ 75,000 574,878
’54..146,094 17 J „ „ 87,500 633.472
’55..139,055 174 ~ „ 87,500 685,027
Assets revalued, £250,000 .. 935,027
Res. capitalised, £250,000 685,027
’56..161,81 2 15 p.c. = 112,500 734,339
From inner res,, £150,000 884,339
’57..184,916 174 p.c. = 131,250 938,005
'58.. 131,780 17f „ „ 131,250 938,535
’59..175,136 20 ~ „ 150,000 963,671
The dividend was raised from
171 p.c. (including a 5 p.c.
bonus) to 20 p.c. (absorbing
£150,000) by a 21 p.c. “Queens-
land Centenary bonus.” As in
the case of the subsidiary, the
latter is not a permanent addi-
tion to the div.-rate.
Balance-sheet figures suggest
a sound financial position.
Reserves, at £963,672, on the
unchanged paid capital of
£750,000, are sufficient to help
the co. through a lean year,
which may be caused by un-
favorable weather conditions
or a sharp slump in world
sugar-prices. These two eventu-
alities are occupational hazards
in the sugar-trade.
Creditors, provisions for
taxation and contingencies and
unspecified other liabilities in-
creased by £274,042 to
£1,221,915. Creditors proper
are not disclosed, making the
item hard to analyse:
1958. 1959.
Paid capital ..£750,000 £750,000
Reserves . . .. 938,536 963,672
Creditors, etc.* .. 947,873 1,221,915
Final divs. .. 93,750 112,500
£2,730,159 £3,048,087
Freehold, mills, re-
finery, etc. . . 1,678,673 1,750,182
Investments .. 611,467 613,333
Stocks .1 .. 328,485 332,671
Debtors 35,695 50,792
Cash .. .. 75,839 301,109
£2,730,159 £3,048,087
* Including taxation and contingencies.
Book - values of freehold,
mills, refinery, railways, rolling-
stock, tramline and livestock
increased by £71,509 to
£1,750,182 (after heavy depre-
ciation provisions). Visible
outlay on capital-assets during
the year was £252,239. Stocks
showed little variation at
£332,671. Debtors went up
£15,097 to £50,792. Cash
jumped £225,270 to £301,019.
A new brick, two-storied,
air-conditioned building was
built on the site in Herschell
Street, Brisbane, bought by the
co. in 1957. Some office-space
is available for letting.
As from July 1, 1959, Milla-
quin entered upon the distri-
bution of refined sugar in
bulk, in addition to the usual
delivery in 701 b. bags. This
was done as a move against
the rising costs from handling-
charges, both at the refinery
and in course of trade.
The outlook for the current
crushing-season is good. Excel-
lent growing-weather has been
(<Continued on page 32)




Do you own any
EAL ESTATE ?
WANTED
FOR
LAND
FLATS
HOUSES
CITY BLDGS. CASH
SUBDIVISIONS
AGENTS PLEASE NOTE
If Cumberland Pastures
purchases a property, it
will pay full purchasing
commission to the agent.
NICHOLS & BORROW Pty. Ltd.
|B| J Largest Land Subdividers
and its associated company
CUMBERLAND PASTURES Pty. Ltd.
OWNERS OF AUSTRALIA'S GREATEST DEVELOPMENT
TERRANORA HEIGHTS ON THE GOLD COAST
WILL VALUE FREE
NO OBLIGATION - -
YOUR REAL ESTATE PROPERTY!
SPOT CASH DEAL
Mite, phone or
CALL
NOW
VICTORIA N.S.W.
None MF 8293 Phone BW 2331
Q’LAND - S.AUST.
Phone 81338 Phone LA 5400
• SYDNEY •MELBOURNE
• BRISBANE • ADELAIDE
victoria
PI *ONE MF8293
Pastures Pty. Ltd.
Collins St., Melbourne.
* C ° nta(:t me - I have ......
to be valued/for sal*
" rs 'i Miss ...
K,
Phone
N.S.W.
PHONE BW 2331
Nichols & Borrow Pty. Ltd.
67 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Please contact" me. I have
to be valued/for sale
Mr., Mrs., Miss
Address
Phone
823
QUEENSLAND
PHONE 81338/9
Cumberland Pastures Pty. Ltd.
Kodak Building, Queen St.,
Brisbane.
Please contact me. I have
to be valued/for sale
Mr., Mrs., Miss
Address
Phone
823
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
PHONE LA 5400 LA 4106
Cumberland Pastures Pty. Ltd.
Rechabite Chambers, Victoria Sq.,
Adelaide.
Please contact me. I have
to be valued/for sale
Mr., Mrs., Miss
Address
Phone
823


ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many year* to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines.
George Ellison Switch Gear.
et~. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant
supervision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Est. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY - 27-3444
108 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - MU 4081
experienced in the main during
the 12 months. It is anticipated
that the co.’s total mill-peak
will again be exceeded, and, of
necessity, some 144,350 tons
of sugar-cane left in the Milla-
quin and Qunaba areas will
remain unharvested.
About half of Australia’s
raw-sugar exports are sold
under guaranteed prices, nego-
tiated annually under the
British sugar scheme. The
rest is sold on the free market,
but enjoys imperial preferences.
The problem of increasing the
world’s consumption of sugar
remains acute. Experiments are
under way to see if sugar can
be used in production of sucro-
chemicals.
Under these conditions,
Millaquin has given a good
performance. From 1954 to
1958 the co. paid \l\ p.c. divs.,
with one exception in 1956,
following the 1- for-2 bonus-
issue in 1956. Looking back
over the past five years the
earning-rate on paid capital
was 23.35 (1959), and 17.6,
24.6, 21.6 and 27.8 p.c. back
to 1955. In 1955 there was an
assets - revaluation, involving
£250,000, and in 1957 another
£150,000 was drawn from inner
reserves. Another gain to
shareholders by way of a
bonus-issue is not unlikely.
At present, the sharemarket
values 10s. ords. at 48s. each.
Based on 17£ p.c. div. the yield
is 3.6 p.c. ' Net assets-backing
is 19s lid. a share.
Bellambi Coal Co.
■Cor over 70 years now, the
A Bellambi Coal Co., Ltd.,
has been operating its South
Bulli coalmine on the N.S.W.
southern coalfields, winning
coal of high steaming value,
though not nearly as suitable
for gas-production.
The great 1949 coal-strike
gave a savage blow to the coal
industry. Production waned,
contracts and markets were lost
and earnings fell. Bellambi
suffered with the rest of the
industry.
The high level of costs was
another adverse factor. The
average price (free-on-rail) of
N.S.W. coal had jumped from
30s. 7d. a ton in 1949 to 565. Id.
in December, 1951, reaching
645. 6d. a ton in June, 1952.
Following heroic efforts to
reduce costs, and thanks to in-
creased mechanical efficiency
(which was partly the result of
allowing tax-free allocations
for expenditure on plant), the
price of coal gradually fell,
over the next seven years, to
575. a ton in June, 1958, and
565. sd. a. ton in December,
1958. The downward trend is
continuing.
In November, 1956, Bellambi
made a bonus-issue of 400,000
3s. 6d. shares, one for each
6s. 6d. unit held. The paid
capital was raised to £200,000
in consolidated 10s. shares, and
has remained unchanged.
Since then, profits have
grown steadily. Looking back
over the last five years, the
percentage of earnings to share-
holders’ funds has been 15.2
p.c. in 1959; 13.1 p.c. (1958);
11.5 p.c. (1957); 9.5 p.c., or
14.6 p.c. on pre-bonus capital
(in 1956) and 7.6 p.c. in 1955.
The dividend-rate has
remained steady at 10 p.c. since
1957; it was 10J p.c. (on
smaller capital) during the pre-
ceding three years.
The 15.2 p.c. profit earned
during the year ended June 30,
1959, was made up of £19,403
net trading profit and £11,059
income from investments, the
lot totalling £30,462 (up £6253).
A capital-profit of £15,386 was
also made from the sale of
investments.
No provision for taxation
was made. After allowing for
the divs., the total of reserves
and undistributed profits was
£25,848 up at £517,254 (includ-
ing £191,986 reserve for colliery
development and contingen-
cies).
Current liabilities disclose a
bank overdraft of £21,457.
Sundry creditors are a little
lower at £34,239.
Freehold property is shown
at the unchanged valuation of
£172,053. Mining machinery,
rolling-stock, etc. (at written-
down cost) appeared at
£427,602 (up £136,144). In-
vestments were down £18,869
at £102,643.
Sundry debtors and prepay-
ments were £22,032 down at
£58,370. Cash and holdings of
government securities were
£61,735 lower at £15,804.
The reductions in invest-
ments and current assets (a
drop of £85,296) were caused
by the third stage of the co.’s
mechanisation programme.
During the year a total of
£159,021 was spent in complet-
ing underground mechanisa-
tion, erecting an electric trans-
former sub-station and other
technical improvements.
This development was
financed by funds obtained by
recall of short-term invest-
ments, sale of bonds and some
shares, capital-profits and
bank overdraft. The mechani-
sation programme helps to ex-
plain the absence of taxation
provision, and the low tax-
payments in preceding years.
Capital-expenditure in the
current term is planned at
about £lOO,OOO.
The 10s. ords. last fetched
21s. 9d. each. Based on the
10 p.c. div. the yield was 4.6
p.c. The net tangible backing
works out at 355. lOd. a share.
Placer Development, Ltd.
Principally because of the
closing - down of the
tungsten-mine following the
end of the General Services
Administration contract, con-
solidated net earnings of Placer
Development, Ltd., dropped to
45 Canadian cents a share, com-
pared with 94 cents a share in
the preceding year. Dividends
totalling 50 cents a share were
paid during the year.
During the term Placer sold
its interest in Coronet Oil Co.
for $12,190,436, resulting in
a $9-million capital surplus.
The Jersey lead-zinc mine
was affected by labor troubles
during the year, but produced
a somewhat greater overall
quantity of concentrates from
higher-grade ore. All current
production and stockpiled con-
centrates were sold, which was
encouraging after the attitude
of the U.S.A. towards lead-
zinc production in the preced-
ing year.
The tungsten-mine was
closed-down at the end of July,
1958. A total of 37,000
units of WO3 has been stock-
piled until prices are more
favorable.
Exploration for new mines
or oil- or gas-wells was con-
tinued during the year at a
cost of $408,336, as against
$700,816 in the preceding term.
The co. looked-over prospects
in Canada, U.S.A., Alaska,
Mexico, the Philippines and
Australasia.
Chief Canadian properties
remain a substantial interest
(through Canadian Explora-
tion, Ltd.) in Craigmont Mines,
Ltd., which is developing a
promising copper ore-body in
the Merritt area of British
Columbia, and* through the
same channel, a 22.2 p.c.
interest in Mattagami Lake
Mines, Ltd., which has dis-
covered an orebody in excess
of 20-million tons averaging
about 13 p.c. zinc, 0.7 p.c.
copper, 0.020 z. gold and 1.30 z.
silver to the ton.
Pato, in South America, was
still a contributor to profits,
but a declining one because of
higher costs. Asnazu is in the
final process of liquidation.
Bulolo Gold Dredging did
better last term, with profits
indicated at 65 cents per Bulolo
share, as against 40 cents in the
preceding year. The plywood
operations of Commonwealth-
New Guinea Timbers, Ltd., in
which Bulolo has an interest of
slightly under 50 p.c., “con-
tinued satisfactorily.” A 5 p.c.
div. was paid in November,
1958.
There are 2,580,000 shares of
no-par-value issued by Placer.
They were selling at £5 2s. in
Sydney last week. Allowing
for the receipt of the considera-
tion payable in respect of
Coronet Oil, Placer would
appear to have consolidated
net liquids of about $22
million, plus'' shares in other
cos. with a quoted market-
value of over s7| million.
At $3O million together, they
would represent about $11.50
a share, which is near enough
to the equivalent of the Sydney
market-price.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WANES— In Divorce.
TO HEDWARD ERNAST COOK late of
67 O'Connor Street Haberfield.—TAKE
NOTICE that ALICE MARY COOK has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4551
of 1958 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
Mint Building Macquarie Street Sydney
by the Twenty-third November 1959
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from McPHERSON, HILL
& STEWART, Solicitors, 83 Market
Street, Mudgee, or from their Agent,
BRYAN G. TURNER, ESQ., Solicitor,
10 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO VIOLET MAUD McBRIDE late of
North Wagga.—TAKE NOTICE that
MARK LEOPOLD McBRIDE has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 2830 of 1959
on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Registry Mint Building Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by the 7th day
of December 1959 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from E. G.
SAYEGH, Solicitor, 133 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Wellington, September 16.
Maoriland’s largest com-
pany, the Tasman Pulp
and Paper Co., Ltd., plans to
spend about £lO million on
expansion, including the instal-
lation of a second newsprint-
machine.
Share-capital will be in-
creased from the present £6
million to £7 million, and, later,
£8 million.
The Bowater Paper Corpora-
tion, London, will take up a
million £1 shares at par.
The Government will pro-
vide additional finance of up
to £900,000, and when the
residue of its advances, about
£4,250,000, is being repaid
about 1964, will invest £1
million in preference shares.
Present paid capital to £6
million has been subscribed as
follows: N.Z. Government, £2
million ; Albert E. Reed and
Co., Ltd., London, £1,508,000 ;
Fletcher Trust and Investment
Co. Ltd., £1 million; Com-
monwealth Development
Finance Co., Ltd., £500,000;
public, £992,000.
The Tasman Company began
production of newsprint at the
end of 1955. In the year to
October 31, 1958, output was
75,000 tons. The second
machine, which is expected to
be working by 1964, will
increase annual productive
capacity to 180,000 tons.
In addition to newsprint, the
company last year produced
40.5-million board-feet of sawn
timber and 39,000 tons of
sulphate pulp.
Up to October 31, 1958,
total depreciation written-off
amounted to £5.5 million, and
the book-value of assets was
reduced to £13.6 million.
The company’s first profit,
£258,019 earned last year,
reduced accumulated losses to
£3.3 million.
Approach by Bowater
In 1952 a British group
headed by Bowater made an
approach to the Government
for an interest in Tasman. It
wanted complete control of
newsprint and pulp production,
sales and prices. The bid fell
through because the Govern-
ment insisted that the manage-
ment of the industry and the
disposal of its products must
remain with a N.Z. board.
Under the scheme now pro-
posed, Albert E. Reed, which
at present has three directors,
will lose one. The Bowater
Corporation will appoint two
directors, and the board will
appoint a managing-director,
not necessarily a director of
any of the companies interested.
Three directors will be ap-
pointed by the Government,
two by the Fletcher Trust and
two by public shareholders.
N.Z. interests will thus main-
tain control.
Tasman chairman, Sir
Bernard Ashwin,- said that the
company would sell practically
all its expanded production in
Australia, where Bowater’s
already had sufficient contracts
to absorb it. Both pulp and
paper would be exported.
In building-up contracts in
Australia in anticipation of the
installation of the second news-
print-machine, the co. had
contracted to sell more news-
print than it was producing,
and this had meant that it had
had to buy newsprint from
elsewhere to fulfil the contracts.
Tasman shares, which had
moved up from 20s. to 255.
over two months, jumped to
275. 6d. after the announce-
ment of the expansion plans,
but quickly settled back to 255.
The scheme looks a good one
for N.Z. and for the co. in
the long-run. It also looks good
for Bowaters, who come in on
the ground-floor to take a
million shares at par several
years after the other partners
put their money up. But it
hardly seems to justify any
sudden increase in the price of
the scrip. If anything, it seems
likely to put the payment of
dividends further away.
Mineral Resources
N.Z.’s mineral resources
have been attracting unusual
attention lately.
The Shell-Todd-BP explora-
tion group has had encourag-
ing results in its search for oil
in Taranaki.
The Minister of Mines, Mr.
Hackett, told Parliament that
several thousand gallons of oil
had already been obtained
from the Kapuni No. 1 ex-
ploratory well. The Shell-
Todd-BP group expected a far
better flow when the bore
lining was removed at the
8000 level.
“These oil people do not
show a great amount of
optimism when they find oil,
but I understand they are
reasonably optimistic about
what they have seen,” he said.
Mr. Hackett explained that
as the bore was deepened the
hole was lined, sealing-off any
oil and gas which might be
there. The prospectors were
now withdrawing the lining
from the bottom at 13,040 ft.
by exploding it, sampling- as
they did so, and they expected
a far better flow when they
returned to the 8000 ft. mark.
“The most encouraging and
most positive indication of oil
yet to come out of Taranaki
as far as I am concerned,” said
Mr. P. O. Veale, head of the
science department at the New
Plymouth Boys’ High School
after making tests of a con-
densate sample reported to
have been taken from the
20,000-gallon tank at the
Kapuni No. 1 well.
Expenditure of almost
£150,000,000 in a scheme
which would “revitalise the
coal industry” was hinted at
by the Minister of Mines
opening the Mineral Confer-
ence.
The Minister may have been
referring to an oil-from-coal
scheme. Such a scheme on the
Buller coalfield should be “an
economic proposition in the
near future, and ultimately a
necessity,” according to Mr.
W. B. Watson, lecturer in coal
mining at the University of
Otago School of Mines and
Metallurgy.
Both the Grey and Buller
coalfields have difficulties due
to poor transport facilities to
markets, and production is
tending to decline.
Rio Tinto, London-based,
world-wide company, is re-
ported to be seeking rights to
prospect for bauxite in North-
land.
In the Warden’s Court at
Whangarei two applications
were filed in the name of
Samuel Benson Dickinson,
who is associated closely with
the Rio Tinto interests.
Extraction of gold and silver
from the banks of the Ohine-
muri River will probably begin
in about six months, according
to B. W. Barnett, managing-
director of South Pacific Mines,
Ltd., who has arrived from
Canada to inspect the progress
of his co.’s investigations.
The co. has a number of
claims under option in the
Thames, Maratoto and Coro-
mandel areas and along the
Ohinemuri River. Except for
the river claims they are all on
or about the sites of old mines
worked during the boom days
of Thames.
At present there is no inten-
tion of offering shares in the
company in N.Z. The com-
pany will go on the Canadian
Stock Exchange in a few
months.
N.Z. Oil-refinery
The Government has agreed
to a wider basis of financial
participation in the N.Z. oil-
refinery, the forthcoming
construction of which was
announced on May 20.
The revised basis provides
an opportunity for the Shell,
8.P., Caltex, Standard-Vacuum,
Atlantic Union and Europa oil
companies to participate in the
venture.
As originally planned, the
new. arrangement retains the
opportunity for N.Z. investors
to contribute 40 per cent, of
the capital requirements, and
to share with overseas enter-
prises in the development of
N.Z. industry.
The proposed oil-refinery
will result in the saving of
overseas funds of some
£3,200,000 a year, according to
the Secretary of Industries and
Commerce, Dr. W. B. Sutch.
In 1958, imports of the types
of oil the refinery would turn-
out accounted for 84 per cent,
of the value of 'N.Z.’s total
imports of petroleum products,
said Dr. Sutch.
To the extent that refining
these products in New Zealand
could reduce the imported con-
tent of goods, which now cost
upward of £l5 million in
foreign exchange, the refinery
could make a substantial con-
tribution to a better balance-
of-payments
An important factor in the
estimated saving of £3,200,000
in foreign exchange a year was
that 40 per cent, of the capital
required would be held in N.Z.
A broad estimate of the
capital needed was £17,200,000.
If all this were held overseas,
a 5 per cent, annual payment
would mean that each year
about £900,000 would need to
be remitted abroad.
Because 40 per cent, of the
capital would be subscribed by
New Zealanders the saving in
exchange based on a 5 per
cent, payment would be
£350,000 a year.


Long Dry
By
CLIVE BARRY
Put a mongoose in a box
with a ping-pong ball.
The mongoose will seize
the ping-pong ball and
hurl it between his hind legs at
the walls of the box. After
many repetitions this hurling
will cease ; then the ping-pong
ball may be replaced with a
genuine egg, and the egg will
remain undamaged.
As an administrator in
Jamskoni district I reached the
same condition as the mon-
goose. The district commis-
sioner had admonished me so
frequently for hurling tax-
payers into custody in mistake
for gangsters, that now a
genuine gangster could accost
me with impunity.
I was awakened one dawning
by the click of my bedroom
windows. Because of
pneumatic hocus-pocus in my
house, my bedroom windows
clicked every time a door
opened.
Hurriedly twitching-on a
local waist-shawl to disguise
the poverty that precludes
pyjamas, I sped barefoot
through to the eating-room
where horizontal rays of the
six-o’clock sun bounced off the
polished parquet and obliter-
ated glowing embers in the
Roman-bridge of a fireplace.
The door was open. A
Visitor was in the eating-room.
“Peaceful greetings, mister,”
he said solemnly.
“Greetings, mister,” I replied
automatically. “What is your
news of many days?”
I had never seen him before.
His face was formed like
solidified lava-dribblings with
small tufts of beard as though
he had half-heartedly shaven
with a broken bottle. His hair
was long, unlike the shaven
skulls of most taxpayers, and
he wore a hat with a two-foot
brim made of buffalo hide.
This hat had loops so that it
could be hung on the arm as a
shield as tough as galvanised
iron.
“My news is excellent,” he
said, and spat on his spearhead.
“Splendid,” I said.
We spoke in a coastal dialect
native to neither of us. Rather
like speaking Spanish to an
Italian: it helps a bit but you
can’t bet on it.
“And I bring you a present,”
he added, rubbing his spear-
head around the inside of my
fireplace in much the same way
that I rub dull razor-blades
around the inside of a glass
tumbler.
Jamskoni people like to give
presents. I remember being
“Two-foot brim.”
pursued along a lonely path-
way by a villainous-looking old
man who presented me with a
ripe guava as he overtook me.
My visitor now offered me a
lucky wrist-loop made from a
giraffe’s tail-sinews, and I
accepted gratefully.
“Joy be with you, mister,”
he said, moving toward the
open door.
“Wait,” I cried. “Is th'ere
anything you need?”
“The beggar needs less than
the merchant,” he quoted.
“Farewell.”
“Farewell,” I said, but in the
moment of de-
parture he men-
tioned a short-
age of salt. I
showed him my
sack of cheap
kitchen salt and
he took it all.
Having the
better part of the bargain, i
shrugged.
T drove down to the compli-
cated filing system known
as Jamskoni Administrative
Centre. I looked in that com-
plicated filing system and found
a photograph of my visitor.
According to the filing system,
my visitor was Colonel
Mahamedi Marete, a genuine
gangster.
Instead of chasing him, I
twisted the giraffe’s sinews on
my wrist and said to myself:
‘'May Allah be praised.”
Because Jamskoni district is
as big as Tasmania and as
rugged, gangster-chasing is
tedious and foolish. Jamskoni
district begins at the high tip
of a permanent ice-cap, and it
spreads down through cold
forests on to warm grazing-
“Don’t move !”
areas and hot plains. Taxpayers
live down on those warm
grazing-areas, gangsters live up
in those cold forests and
elephants live where there is
water.
The long rains send
elephants down to the lowly
taxpayers and the long dry
sends them up to the gangsters.
During the last long dry,
25-pounder shells were hurled
up the mountain to discourage
the gangsters. Consequently
many taxpayers became
gangsters in order to benefit
from the prodigious supplies of
slaughtered elephant-meat on
the mountain.
During the present long dry,
I am employed instead of
25-pounders to discourage
gangsters. I am employed at


miserly rates ; and because I
believe in a fair day’s work
for a fair day’s pay those
elevated gangsters often enjoy
very little discouragement.
My fair day’s work is usually
done at night with no moon
and plenty of mountain mist. I
take a flask of brandy, half-a-
dozen tribal policemen, a .606-
calibre rifle and the district
commissioner.
On one such misty moonless
midnight I mentioned to the
district commissioner my
miserly rates of pay.
“I cannot live on my pay,
sir,” I grumbled to him.
“Can you pay your brandy
bill?” inquired the district
commissioner. Then he added:
“Watch out for puff-adders.”
"The harder I watched out the
-*■ blacker the night became.
By daylight, puff-adders are as
gaudy as sunburnt Pommies,
but at night they are invisible.
1 took long high steps on the
points of my boots.
“I cannot pay my grocery
bill, sir,” 1 said.
Puff-adders have slant-sharp
hypodermic needles for stings
and they wait here and there to
inoculate mammals like you
and me with hasmotoxin.. This
haemotoxin flushes through you
like myxomatosis through a
rabbit and it makes all your
blood-vessels leak.
“And survival seems impos-
sible,” I added sadly.
“You can get credit at the
Hindoo grocery,” said the
district commissioner. “We
better check this government
school.”
The point of my boot
prodded a puffiness, maybe
elephant-dung, and I did a
worried-stiff dance.
“I don't want credit,” - I
yapped. “I want security.”
“Sh,” said the district com-
missioner, and I stopped danc-
ing. Immediately the six
tribal policemen knelt in a
circle with their regimental
shotguns turned outward. I
could not see them but I knew
their drill.
From above came an
explosion of sounds which
resembled all the gangsters in
the mountain behind one
colossal sword-charge. Instead
of gangsters, however, those
sounds were mostly baboons.
Muffled through the mist came
the abrupt tenor barks of
baboons as they tore the ears
and lips off a serval cat. Mixed
with the tortured screams of
that torn cat, those maniacal
tenor barks reassured the
district commissioner.
“Proceed,” he said calmly.
“Financially,” I proceeded,
“I should have more security
on Bondi Beach.”
“Go on,” said the district
commissioner. “I’ll veer
slightly and meet you behind
the school.”
Again our tribal policemen
knelt in a circle in the dust and
turned their shotguns outward.
The district commissioner
veered slightly and I went on
until I collided with the
thatched eaves of that govern-
ment school. From that
collision I ricocheted and
touched a stone windowsill. I
put the foresight of my .606
over that sill and I pushed one
eye forward after it. That
government school was as
black as a puff-adder’s soul.
I veered again and pushed
an eye over the next sill. That
government school was as
quiet as a puff-adder’s pulse.
At the next windowsill the
breeze from a sharp hiss made
my forward eye blink. I
danced back to avoid an
inoculation of heemotoxin and
that sharp hiss came again.
Thinking it was a joke I
said: “You lousy cow, sir.”
Behind me in the kneeling
circle, six hammers snicked
back into six trigger-locks.
“Keep your voice down,”
murmured the district commis-
sioner. “This school is full of
gangsters.”
“Splendid,” I said, trembling
with fright.
A quiet vibration like the
scream of a housefly came from
within that government school,
and in response those six tribal
policemen adjusted their
postures. In my mind’s eye I
could see their six regimental
shotguns aimed through me at
that vibration.
“Go round behind the
school,” directed the district
commissioner, “and drive them
out the front doorway.”
“Eh, sir?” I gulped.
Then the thought of those
six shotguns aimed through me
sent my legs round behind the
government school.
As soon as I was shielded by
the government schooL I
dragged the stopper from my
flask and took the largest
mouthful possible of neat
brandy therefrom. So large
was this mouthful that my
cheeks were distended under
pressure and every taste-bud
was jabbed as though with
broken glass.
I leaned my .606 against a
windowsill and I struck a
match. I expelled that neat
brandy out through tight lips
with the kind of force used to
blow a regimental bugle. The
neat brandy came out in a fine
spray like insecticide out of a
flit-gun. With the match I
ignited that fine spray.
Immediately flames flowed
across the windowsill and
filled the government school
beyond. Flames lapped up past
the rafters and scraps of flame
tore off from the main con-
flagration and blew out among
the swirling shadows. Dry
thatching above the rafters
caught alight so that even when
my pressurised mouthful was
exhausted, flames continued to
wave and writhe, and the effect
was aggravated by the after-
images in my eyeballs.
I threw a brandy-soaked yell
across the windowsill into the
flames, but the yell that came
back like an amplified echo
could have been 700 serval cats
synchronised on torture-racks.
Not long afterwards I lay
breathless behind the massive
bolt of my .606 about 200yds.
from the government school.
Action inside that school
now was more like break-up at
Darlinghurst Public than
resistance from a schoolful of
gangsters. The sound of falling
masonry and woodwork indi-
cated that those gangsters dis-
regarded the front doorway
and simply exuded througn
stone walls.
“Tally ho,” cried the district
commissioner, and from the
kneeling circle of tribal police-
men gunshot hosed outward in
six directions simultaneously
like petals in the flower of
flame. I thumbed the safety-
catch and fingered the trigger
of my .606, and as usual my
shoulder was almost carried
away, my eardrums almost dis-
integrated and miles out on the
grazing areas a hot slug pene-
trated 30ft. of red topsoil.
As soon as all sounds of flight
had died in the distance and in
the ringing of my ears I
returned to the front of the
government school and said:
“Let us pursue them, sir.”
Whatever the district com-
missioner said was covered by
the fall of another flaming
rafter. I estimated that my
night’s work would cost the
government at least 20,000
shillings, so I added: “It is
obvious my work is worth more
than the pay I get.”
The dry thatching now burnt
brightly and sent a column of
sparks upward which tem-
porarily blotted out the begin-
nings of daylight. But soon
jagged shieds of mist grew
visible between the forest trees ;
and miles out on the grazing
areas, sunlight struck through
in big hot patches.
“How much more?” asked
the district commissioner.
By the huge holes battered
in the walls of that government
school I assessed the value of
my work. Then I deducted a
little for the lack of prisoners
and the fatigue on the district
commissioner’s face.
“About twenty-bob a day,
sir,” I guessed.
""Through jagged shreds of
mist I could see the foot-
prints of an elephant. Each
footprint obliterated grey
surface-dust to reveal sharp red
volcanic topsoil beneath. The
footprints, like gallon splashes
of doorstep-paint, trailed down
the hillside, and I judged by the
sharpness of the wet-paint
effect that the elephant had
ghosted past only a little while
earlier. Elephants are quieter
than humans, quicker than
humans and much more
dangerous.
“Too much,” said the
district commissioner, squint-
ing down to where the red foot-
prints vanished into dead
ground.
“I’m thinking of resigning,
sir,” I said, clanking back the
massive bolt of my .606. “It
is time I settled down.”
I put another cold slug in
the spout before slamming
home the bolt; but as daylight
grew stronger we saw that
elephant miles out on the sunlit
grazing areas going like a
double-decker bus, so I put the
slug back in the magazine.
“And you will find it hard
to replace me.”.
We marched back on dead-
reckoning to my parked vehicle.
The tribal policemen piled in
under the canopy, the district
commissioner sat up front, I
clipped my .606 under the dash
and freewheeled down the
mountain in top gear until the
engine fired. Automatically I
went into a controlled drift on
a dry corner, but financial
worry made me lose touch and
centrifugal force sucked us out
over broken ground as we
tried to adjust to that mile-a-
minute situation. My vehicle
settled down in a forced land-
ing on brittle needle-rocks and
I hobbled away to survey the
damage. My chassis was
slightly twisted and machinery
inside my shin grated.
“I’ll find it easy to replace
you,” said the district commis-
sioner after counting the tribal
policemen.
“I was really only joking,
sir,” I said.
My vehicle was drivable, but
needle-rocks held it stranded.
The wide difference between
day and night temperatures had
distorted those needle-rocks for
ages, so now they were full of
('Continued on page 45)


Britain’s General Election
Once Prime Minister Macmillan
had taken the plunge and
announced October 8 as election-
day, neither side in British
politics wasted any time in hopping into
the fray. Macmillan himself had stolen
a march on his oppohents by capitalising
his TV chat with Eisenhower. As against
that, Labor-leaders Gaitskell and Bevan
had the advantage of having had the
ear of Khrushchev almost on the eve
of the Soviet Premier’s departure for
Washington though K. apparently
didn’t breathe a word about the moon-
rocket.
Hastening back from Moscow, Gait-
skell dropped in on the Trade Union
Congress at Blackpool, called the dele-
gates “comrades,” and rather self-
consciously explained that he was entitled
to use the word because he was a trade-
unionist himself. In what amounted to
a preliminary policy-speech, he pleaded
that it was Labor’s right to be the
Government that would take part in the
summit talks when they eventuated;
that it was, in fact, vital for the whole
world that a Labor Government should
be returned next month.
Tt cannot be said that there have so
far been any noticeable signs of a
mighty concerted shout of “We want
Gaitskell” coming from the 80-odd
nations for whom his elevation to the
Prime Ministership is considered vital,
but that may merely be because
they don’t know what’s good for them.
Not that it matters from an election
point of view. What is important is
whether the British electors want Gait-
skell, and, if they don’t, whether he can
convince them during the next fortnight
that they should.
At Blackpool he devoted much of his
time—probably too much —to foreign
affairs, but he did give some indication
of Labor’s domestic policy. He
promised higher pensions, a more active
housing programme, lower mortgage
rates. He hinted at action to curb take-
over bids ; promised to stop death-duty
evasions and “expenses rackets” and to
put a tax on capital-gains. As to taxes,
he would ease the burden of “those who
earn their money properly, by the sweat
of their hands and by their brains. This
goes also for professional people,
scientists, and management, who are
doing a good job and on whom we
also depend.”
Gaitskell warned his audience that if
Labor’s plans were to be carried out,
“the trade-unions cannot contract out
of it. It cannot be done without their
co-operation.” Everyone said “Hear,
hear,” and gave the Labor leader an
ovation that really made Blackpool rock,
but as soon as Gaitskell had gone they
got down to business again and pro-
ceeded to pass resolutions supporting a
policy of wage - increases absolutely
opposing the idea of a wage-freeze—and
seeking a shorter working-week. This
suggested that they either didn’t care
two hoots whether their action would
embarrass Gaitskell in his attempt to
win the election or else that they didn’t
expect him to win, anyway.
T abor’s pamphlet, The Tory - Swindle,
-“- y 1951-59, got some unexpected pub-
licity last week when Randolph Churchill
sought a court injunction restraining the
Labor party from infringing the copy-
right of his book The Rise and Fall of
Sir Anthony Eden by reproducing in the
pamphlet a passage criticising the policy
of the Eden Government at the time of
the. Suez affair. The judge found that
Randolph had a reasonable ground for
resentment that “passages of his care-
fully written work should be wrenched
from their context and used for political
purposes,” but he was not satisfied that
the author had suffered “any other harm
than injury to his feelings and possibly
subjection to ridicule.”
The decision doesn’t affect Randolph’s
right to take action for damages, but
the pamphlet remains in circulation, to
be used, presumably, to bolster-up Gait-
skell’s claim that the country needs
“above all a Government that could
never in any circumstances commit the
disastrous folly of Suez.”
Certainly no one would expect a
Gaitskell Government to take any action,
foolish or otherwise, as positive as the
Eden Government’s attack on Suez. Any
disasters it might invite in foreign affairs
would be far more likely to be due to
follies of omission. But Suez is not likely
to play an important part in this cam-
paign. As an election issue it’s a dead
duck.
'T'he Conservative manifesto, The Next
Five Years, devotes itself to things
that touch voters much more closely
than Suez. It reminds them that eight
years have passed since the Conservative
Government came to power, and it asks
them to contrast the conditions of 1951
with those of today. It claims that the
British economy is sounder now than at
any time since the first World War.
Sterling has been re-established as a
strong and respected currency. “Under
Conservative Government we have
earned abroad £l6OO million more than
we have spent. Our exports have reached
the highest peak ever.” Overseas in-
vestment, continues the manifesto, is at
double the level of eight years ago, in-
vestment at home half as large again.
These are general statements. Getting
closer to earth and closer to the electors’
pockets is this section:
The paraphernalia of controls have been
swept away. The call-up is being abolished.
We have cut taxes in seven Budgets, while
continuing to develop the social-services.
We have provided over two-million new
school-places, a better health-service and
a modern pensions-plan. We have stabil-
ised the cost-of-living while maintaining
full employment.
In the forefront of the five-year pro-
gramme are placed three prerequisites
of success—a strong sterling, expanding
trade and national unity. Flexible
monetary and other measures are to be
used to keep currency stable and the
cost-of-living as steady as possible so that
goods and services will be available at
prices the world can afford to pay.
All promises and undertakings given
by the Government are intended to fit
into this background. Representatives of
employers and trade-unions are to be
invited to discuss afresh with the Govern-
ment the human and industrial problems
ahead. No threat is seen to full employ-
ment, but the machinery for coping with
local unemployment is to be strengthened.
Referring obviously to automation, the
manifesto says that while welcoming
technical progress, the Government
recognizes the necessity for dealing with
the problems it creates. Education pro-
grammes are to be expanded —it is
expected that by 1965 at least 40 per
cent, of children will be staying on at
school after 15 —and the hospital-build-
ing programme for the coming five years
is double the present commitment.
Within the period of the programme it
is intended to rehouse “at least another
million people from the slums.” Long-
term assurances given, to agriculture in
1957 are confirmed for the life of the
next Parliament and technical develop-
ment is to be encouraged by the appoint-
ment of a Minister for Science.
'T'hat Macmillan and co. are justified
in claiming that they have given the
country stability is borne-out by the
latest figures on trade, finance and em-
ployment. The sterling position is
healthy; with the exception of two
months when repayments had to be made
on American and International Monetary
Fund loans, reserves have risen every
month since September, 1957. Exports
reached an all-time high in May, dropped
somewhat in June, but rose again sharply
in July; on current figures there is a
favorable balance-of-payments surplus.
Civil employment figures rose by 62,000
in May and by 85,000 in June, the
improvement covering all industries
except coalmining and shipbuilding.
Despite prosperity, retail prices in June
were at the same level as in June, 1958,
and only one point higher than in June,
1957.
All these things add-up to Gaitskell
having a very tough job ahead of him
in trying to convince the electors that
they need a new Government. This is
borne-out by public-opinion polls and
by the odds quoted by political book-
makers.
The Government’s biggest risk could
come from complacency. This is recog-
nized by its campaign-manager, Lord
Hailsham, who has warned the Con-
servative party against over-optimism.
He said, “Margins are narrow, and the
way to lose an election is to think that
it is in the bag.”


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Guineas Day
Handicapped out of it by
sundry causes, present writer
hadn’t been on a course for
several years, but last Satur-
day’s Guineas Day at Rosehill
was temptation that couldn’t be
resisted. Except financially (as
would be expected), it paid
handsome dividends —one of
them curiously surprising.
Guineas Day up there had
always been a special personal
favorite —right back to the time
when the flowering trees alone
made it a pleasure to be there.
The flowering trees have long
since gone, to make room for
the books and the variety of
totes and the everlasting hope-
ful, whose interest (most
noticeably so on Sydney
courses) may perhaps not
strictly be accounted “sport,”
but without whom, anyway,
there’d be no Guineas Day,
and what would be the gain in
that?
From that finally decisive
point of vie\v the Sydney Turf
Club has done a tiptop job
with its improvements, and it’s
also doing something towards
suitably gracing its Guineas
Day with wide beds of flowers
over beyond the winning-post,
and the old little lake there with
a couple of black swans diving
and a dozen or so ducks swim-
ming around. So it can be
forgiven the lost glory, and
particularly when the Guineas
itself remains the old grand
spectacle, with, last Saturday,
leading the sizeable field from
go to whoa, as magnificent-
looking a horse as anyone
could hope to set eyes on.
That is where the profit (of
surprise) and the loss (financial)
came in. The surprise arose
from the fact that, in all the
reams written about his notable
succession of wins, not one
account had conveyed an idea
of how superb-looking a horse
is Martello Towers. It was
mentioned that he is a grey,
and that’s about all.
In fact, he is not only a
superlatively beautiful grey—
light-grey overall, with splashes
of darker marking but in
general conformation he looks
entirely as if he had just stepped
out of one of those old-time
horse-paintin)gs— the seemingly
small, very alert, dominating
head ; the tall, comparatively
very big structure of the rest
of him. Picture-book horses
are not always the best, but
this fellow gallops as beauti-
fully as he looks. And he
gallops “long,” likb one in
those old paintings, too.
It was worth going to Rose-
hill just to look at him. Rest-
less there, high and alert in
his stall before the Guineas,
he dominated everything— not
merely just the other horses
near him, but the admiring
crowd and the entire place as
well. From away back in the
Dark Ages one recalled seeing
the well-named Heroic doing
just that; but Heroic looked
a little mad, rolling his wild
eyes over the crowd, and this
fellow, though his eyes flash
their fire, dominates by sheer
magnificent impressiveness.
And so, too, he dominated
the Guineas —Podmore appear-
ing to just let him stretch along
“You're getting too soft for this game, Slugger."
as he liked ahead of the field,
which included some pretty
pacey horses, and not one of
them looking like catching him,
until Travel Boy unwound
something like the finishing
run of a stayer, and, for all
that’s been said to the con-
trary, was still coming on. His
run started half-a-furlong too
late. Still, these fast-finishing
seconds can be confoundedly
misleading.
That is where the loss part
of it occurred—on Travel Boy ;
a preconceived notion, admit-
tedly, based on the fact that the
grey’s form was mostly winter
form, but also confirmed by a
close look at them both before
the race. In that viewing—
probably mistaken —the grey
looked a trifle long to lump
weight over a journey, though
big enough to carry the grand-
stand at a middle-distance, and
looked a bit too plentiful
astern for a true stayer (though
the easy Rosehill 10-furlongs
is no good test of that).
Maybe these are only after-
math consolation notions?
Anyway, the smaller bay Travel
Boy, with his angled hind-
quarters and the rest of his
compact, powerful build,
seemed, on the other hand, to
look the part completely.
All wrong, as it turned out—
in the Guineas.
And now, what about the
extra two furlongs of the
Derby? They argued the toss
over that all the way home—
as keen enthusiasts as ever
they were, just as the S.T.C.’s
Guineas Day, and Martello
Towers, demonstrated that it’s
still securely the Sport of
Kings, and let what will be
second.
This writer, having the
customary dash of Angora in
him, will, of course, follow
his lost dough in the Derby
(contrary to The Bulletin
regular writer’s findings, which
follow here). Meantime, one
thing remains to be seen—
how this splendid, dominating
grey will fight back if ever
they do catch him. They have
yet to do so. Even again losing
over him in the Derby will be a
pleasure.
C. M.
* * *
Sydney Form
Despite leading trainer T. J.
Smith’s expressed confidence
in Travel Boy’s prospects of
lowering the colors of Martello
Towers in the Rosehill
Guineas, the colt was no match
for the flying grey, who
emerged a warm favorite for
the A.J.C.’s £lO,OOO Derby,
and there seems nothing to
bar his way to victory in the
classic. His Guineas win was
forecast here on September 9.
He and his jockey, George
Podmore, were given a Cup
reception on returning to
weigh-in.
While Martello Towers
made the running in the
Guineas at a pace to suit his
rider, Travel Boy and Fire
Flair, who followed him home,
were toiling in the rear until
the home-turn was rounded.
Travel Boy threatened danger
a furlong from home, but,
while he was being urged
along, Martello Towers was
coasting to the wire. In fact,
pictures taken near the finish
showed Podmore looking
round for his closest rival.
The grey has already won
about £7OOO, not such a bad
return for the lOOOgns. he
cost as a yearling.
• • • •
Maybe Fire Flair could
create a Derby upset. His
run from the rear of the field
for third-money in the Guineas
indicated that he will have no
bother seeing the Derby mile-
and-a-half right out. Breeding
also points that way. He is
by Flying Missel (Am.), who
won at two miles, set a world’s
record of 3.32 f for two miles
and half-a-furlong, and won
nine races and many thousands
in' stakes. Fire Flair’s dam,
Olympic Crown, an imported
mare, is by Big Game from
The Bud by Diophon from
Papilla by Papyrus. Papilla
was related by Buckleigh, a
winner of the Doncaster Cup
(2| miles) and of the New-
market Jockey Cup miles),
so there’s every reason to
anticipate Fire Flair’s hand-
ing-out a staying performance
in the classic. The colt cost
llOOgns. as a yearling, and is
raced by R. J. Nossal. He’s
trained at Rosehill by Morrie
Anderson.
* * •
The Royal Empires keep on
winning, Royal Perception (in
the September Handicap) and
Nadar Shah (Auburn Stakes)
carrying on the good work for
him at Rosehill. It was Royal
Perception’s first success since
November last; Nadar Shah
had not previously had a win.
However, Nadah Shah put in
a splendid determined last-
furlong dash to get up in time
to beat Chartwell by a head,
with outsider Earl Carol third.
At his prior outing he finished
13th of 21 starters in Novice


company at Warwick Farm. A
four-year-old gelding, he’s
from the Beaupartir mare
Belle Femme, whose dam,
Newsgirl, was got by Magpie
(imp.) from Carrah by Charle-
magne II (imp.). Related to
Speciality, a winner of the
Metropolitan and the Don-
caster nearly 40 years ago,
Nadar Shah was bought for
400gns. as a yearling and was
bred by M- V. Point at Sled-
mere Stud, Scone (N.S.W.)
When an owner starts two
horses in the same race and
the “roughie” of the pair wins
with the stable-elect out of a
place there’s bound to be
plenty of noise from the public.
Stablemates Morning Gleam
(evens) and Royal Perception
(16’s) contested the Rosehill
September Handicap. It was
first intended to take Royal
Perception out at acceptance-
time, but, as the field quickly
dwindled, trainer Bob Stuart
thought he might as well be a
starter, as a possible pace-
maker for the better-performed
Morning Gleam. Mount on
the outsider was given to a
capable apprentice, Alan
Taylor, and the gelding carried
only 6.12. In the small field
of seven he was in front soon
after the start, and was still
there at the finish, when the
crowd started to have its say.
Thus he had carried.-out his
job of pacemaking, but Morn-
ing Gleam showed little dash
in the final stages, and her
fourth was unimpressive.
Jack’s Count handed-out a
moderate effort for a well-
fancied runner. The Stuart
stable has Bardshah in the
Metrop.
• • • •
Spectator looked the part as
he walked round the mounting-
enclosure prior to the begin-
ning of the racing at Rosehill
and he was made a warm
favorite for the event, the First
Parramatta Stakes. Trained
by C. L. Sheil, the colt acted
in keeping with his race-
condition, being untroubled to
beat pacemaker Te Rapa, who,
how'ever, should not be long
in opening his winning-
account. Spectator has a num-
ber of spring engagements, but
can win another Graduation
race or an Encourage before
tackling open company. Bred
by V. C. Bath at his Bhima
Stud, Scone (N.S.W.), and
raced by Ken Ranger, the colt
is by Jambo (imp.) from Fell
Flower (imp.) by Felstead from
Thyrse by Hyperion, so he
has a sound background.
Engagement of strong light-
weight, Bill Camer, turned the
tide for owners T. and M.
Ryan and trainer B. W.
Byrnes when that rider won
the Rosehill Welter on Merry
Amber, who had finished close-
up in four prior starts, and
in one was a short-head second
at Warwick Farm to Tudor
House. In four previous races
the mount had gone to midget
apprentice Peter Miers, a clever
youngster, but on the light
side. He had handled Merry
Amber well, but lacked the
vigor of Camer over the final
stages. Camer had the Welter
won a long way from home,
and Merry Amber easily
defeated the better-fancied
Irish Folly and Royal King-
dom. The winner is by
Emperor (imp.) from Merry
Shirl (a half-sister to Good
Idea) by Merry Matthew
(imp.), and traces back on the
dam’s side to Tressady (imp.).
Trainer Harry Plant won a
double at Rosehill with Morn-
ing Star (Flying) and Prince
Crown (Second Parramatta
Stakes). Both are three-year-
olds, and these first wins of
the new season could be fore-
runners of others, in much
better company. Morning Star,
one of the Star Kingdom clan,
cost 2500gns. as a yearling,
but Prince Crown went for
310gns. He is a Crown Street
gelding from Mid Brunette by
Midstream (imp.) and has a
sound staying background.
• * *
Commenting on Foxmara’s
fifth to Flash Gem at Canter-
bury Park on September 5, this
page (September 9) stated:
“Foxmara handed - out a
promising effort, should be
benefited by the run and
could enter the list of Metro-
politan and Cups chances. He
should, be a show in any
distance-race of the spring
round.” At next outing, at
Newcastle last Saturday, Fox-
mara stylishly won the 11-
furlongs Cup, and immedi-
ately came into strong request
for the Metropolitan, in which
he’s weighted at 8.2, same as
carried at Newcastle. T. J.
Smith trains Foxmara at Rand-
wick. The stable was right
out of luck at Rosehill, with
four seconds, Te Rapa, Travel
Boy, Great Blaze and Irish
Folly, a costly day for the
Smith followers.
* * *
Brisbane horses Grand
Garry and Book Link have
settled-down at Randwick on
their visit for the Sydney and
Melbourne round of spring fix-
tures, and both look particu-
larly fit. Book Link has won
in Sydney. He figures among
the entrants for the w.-f.-a.
Hill Stakes at Rosehill this
coming Saturday, and could
add to winnings. Grand Garry
—second to Macdougal in the
Brisbane Cup—has a good
Brisbane record. He has 8.3
in the Epsom, but the stable
has hopes for him taking this
year’s Melbourne Cup.
* * *
In the Randwick two-year-
old trials best efforts by colts
and geldings were those of
Gemini Prince, Noble Star,
Sky High, Beau Tirage,
Swallow Tail and French
Empire, while fillies to please
included Weona Girl, Miss
Gigi, Fleur Rose, On Wave and
Sensational. Harry Tancred
paid 4000gns. for the well-
grown Gemini Prince, whose
time;—49| —was a fraction out-
side the best for the session ;
but the colt was eased-up in
the final stages. The colt is
trained by M. McCarten, who
also won trials with Australian
Star (5000gns.), Weona Girl
(2100gns.) and French Em-
pire (2400gn5.). Gemini Prince
is by Star Kingdom (imp.)
from Valiant Queen by Gold
Nib (imp.). T. J. Smith won
trials with Miss Gigi (1500gns.),
Noble Star (7100gns.), Beau
Tirage (1500gns.), and Swallow
Tail (passed-in at 325gn5.).
Noble Star is another Star King-
dom, and is from Sweet
Adeline by Dogger Bank
(imp.).
* * *
At Moo nee Valley
To the normal hazards of
finding a winner at the tricky
Valley course, last Saturday
added the problem of a rain-
soaked track. In the opening
event, the first heat of the
six-furlongs Merri Handicap
for three-year-old fillies, the
speedy Hyleena, burdened with
9.6, drifted from odds-on to
threes, on that account. None-
theless she put-up a great per-
formance to lead most of the
way, though she couldn’t with-
stand the strong finish of
Sahibah, carrying 7.2. Hyleena
will win soon on a dry track.
Sahibah is by N.Z. sire Bel-
vedere from Milford Haven,
and is raced by Sydney couple
V. J. O’Gorman and wife.
The lightweights had it to
themselves again in the second
Merri, Princess Ada and Gal-
lenza clearing away to fight
out a tight finish, with the
Princess just landing the
money. She’s a South Aus-
tralian filly, by Ruthless from
Ada Fox. Colin Hayes, who
has had a lot of success on his
trips to Melbourne (notably
with Pandie Sun), trains the
winner.
One horse who appreciated
the going was former Queens-
lander Malarno. The aged
Captain Fox gelding has
“shelly” feet, and he improves
a stone on a heavy track. He
scooted away "with the main
event, the John F. Feehan
Handicap. In view of the con-
ditions, the form is unreliable
as a guide to the Cups, but if
Malarno strikes a similar day
for the Caulfield Cup, in which
he has 8.0 (he carried 8.9 on
Saturday), he will be a real
danger. There isn’t a better
wet-weather galloper in Aus-
tralia. Mac’s second to him
was a good run. This five-
year-old MacArthur gelding
(Adelaide Cup winner, and
fifth in last year’s Melbourne
Cup) is well-weighted with 8.7
for Flemington, and he stays
like a mother-in-law.
t= * *
Tomorrow (Thursday) is
Show Day in Melbourne, with
a race-meeting at Caulfield.
The feature event is the Invi-
tation Stakes, for which lead-
ing jockeys from each State
have been invited to ride.
Remarkably, no Sydney rider
has yet been successful. Scenic
Star may win tomorrow, with
last year’s winner, Gay Saba,
the danger.
* * *
No youngster was more
impressive at the Flemington
two-year-old trials last week
than the Sir Dallas-Bymue colt
Dalby, whose time for the four
furlongs was 48^ —easily the
fastest of the 11 heats. Tony
Lopes trains Dalby (who
also won a trial at Caulfield
the previous week) for the
colt’s breeder, S. L. Calvert.
Dalby and Milverton (Caul-
field trial-winner) look the
best of Melbourne’s two-year-
old colts. The Landau stock
again did well at Flemington,
winning three heats. The
Landau filly Kuch Parwani
(from Resignation) was par-
ticularly impressive, and the
Rashleigh-Dizzy Dame young-
ster Gay Amour was under a
tight rein and could be an
early winner.
* * *
Trots
At Harold Park on Friday
night six-year-old Enzedder
Guiseppe qualified for next
month’s £5OOO Anniversary
Cup by winning the Harold
Park Handicap in race-record
time of 3min. 37Asec. for the
13fur. and 98yds. He had a
comfortable win, and in six
starts this season now has the
excellent record of three wins


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO DUDLEY GEORGE REWELL late
of Goulburn. —TAKE NOTICE that
BETTY JUNE REWELL has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 2333 of 1959 on
the grounds of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or
excuse and is asking for the exercise of
the Court's discretion under S. 19 (2)
(a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899-
195 S If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 2nd day of December
1959 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from CHARLES
GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 107-109 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney, New South Wales.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JEANETTE MARSHALL (formerly
JEANETTE KANE) late of 53 Griffiths
Avenue West Ryde Sydney.—TAKE
NOTICE that DAVID WILLIAM
MARSHALL has filed a Petition for
Divorce" No. 2053 of 1956 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards and
is asking for the exercising of the
Court’s discretion under Section 19 (2)
(a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1899 If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 30th November 1959 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from SALWEY & PRIMROSE,
Solicitors, of 155 King Street, Sydney.
—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
QUEENSLAND
INSURANCE
Co. Ltd.
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE &
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies
throughout the World.
and two placings. Streak’s Son
ran away with the Carlton
Handicap, beating First Kiss’s
race-record by two-fifths of a
second, recording an excellent
mile-rate of 2.9, and beating
New Zealander O’Dearo by
three lengths. In the Second
Qualifying Stakes, Danny
Hanover, one of last season’s
top three - year - olds, led
throughout, lasting long enough
to just beat the fast-finishing
Sky Queen, having her first
run at the Park, after many
wins on provincial tracks.
The crowd totalled over
18,000.
* * •
Notes from Harry
Hopman
Contents of a letter from
Harry Hopman to Orme Best,
representative of a Victorian
paper in N.S.W.:
Dear Orme,
Each time I open a cable or
some other message of goodwill
I realise how fortunate our tennis-
teams are to have Australia so
solidly behind them. A team
reaches a crisis, and along come
so many words of encouragement
that the task seems so much less
formidable.
We met some tough obstacles
on our way to winning back the
Cup; we needed the outside
influences of goodwill to build-up
team-spirit and the team-effort
which carried us through.
When Neale was stricken with
appendicitis, badly for a day and
mildly for several days, before we
met Mexico, we wanted Ken
Fletcher around to have someone
to “rubbish” and Marty Muldoon
(alias Martin Mulligan) to make-up
a four for five-hundred, and these
two youngsters were great fun as
well as good work-horses.
That match with Mexico was a
great battle, and Rod showed his
mettle when he recovered from two
sets to one down and 1-3 down
in the fourth set against Tony
Palafox and the volatile gallery to
clinch the match for us. It was
in that fight against Mexico, too,
that Neale and Roy showed us
something better than their Wimble-
don form and gave me confidence
in the doubles if we were to reach
the challenge round.
The matches against Canada and
Cuba provided valuable match-
practice, and we were in good shape
when we met the Italians. Neale
and Rod in singles and the Fraser-
Emerson combination showed their
worth in upsetting a very confident
"It all began one day he retrieved my cane
from the water.”
Italian team —and we knew then
that we had a great chance of taking
the Cup back home.
However, there was still much
to be done in final preparation,
and thinking of the number of
backhand returns of serve Neale
hit in the four final days of prac-
tice, you will, I am sure, sympa-
thise -with Bob Mark if he returns
home with a lopsided shoulder or
no right arm at all. He must have
served hundreds of balls con-
tinuously at times to strengthen
Neale’s return of serve.
Roy and Bob were our top singles
practice-men, but Ken and Martin
were also around for practice
variety, and, of course, “Fletch”
was there to advise Frais and Rocket
how to play Alex and Barry.
I am sure you have the picture;
in other words, winning back the
Cup was a good team-effort, and
although it will be best remembered
as Neale’s year, he, I am sure,
will always be happy to tell how
Fletcher and Mulligan (and their
team-mates) won the Cup for
Australia before a challenge-round
ball was hit.
Thanks again and I hope this
finds you well.
Sincerely,
Harry.
* * *
Ski Scores
Last year’s national Langlauf
champion, Victorian R. Walpole,
retained his title in the 1959 Aus-
tralian national ski titles, held at
Mt. Buller (Vic.). He completed
the course in lhr. 2min. 31sec. —
27sec. ahead of H. Dalheim
(A.C.T.). H. Nordal (N.S.W.) was
third in 1.3.26.
The Australian jumping cham-
pionship was won by Victorian E.
Vettori, with H. Nordal second and
R. Janata (N.S.W.) third.
Results of the men’s and women’s
divisions of the downhill and
slalom championships showed the
evenness of the top bracket of
skiers in these events in Australia,
placings in the downhill being
exactly the same as in the slalom,
as lollows:
Women-—first, Christine Davy
(N.S.W.); second, Judy Forass
(Vic.); third, Jans Tinsley (Vic.).
Men—first, Billy Day (N.S.W.);
second, Bruce Dyson (Vic.); third,
Danny Collman (N.S.W.).
* * #
Billiards Titles
“Bob Ray” discusses them:—
In the Australian amateur
billiards championships in Brisbane
the entrants comprised the six
State champions.
These included the two outstand-
ing amateur billiard cueists in the
world today—Bob Marshall (W.A.)
and Tom Cleary (Vic.).
Arthur Ball made a good come-
back this year to win the N.S.W.
title for his sixth time. He has
been runner-up in two past Aus-
tralian championships, and had
also once beaten Bob Marshall.
South Australian Tom McLaughlin
was a newcomer to Australian
national championships, but has
won the last three Australian rail-
way titles. Another newcomer was
Bert Munro from Tasmania.
Queensland’s representative was
Allan Young, who has won Queens-
land’s title six times. It was against
Young, whom he beat easily,
3391-529, that Marshall made his
two world marks (noted in B.
16/9/ ’59). Cleary had set the pre-
vious record for a four-hour session
(3185) in the 1950 Australian
championships.
It was obvious from early on that
the title would be fought out
between Marshall and Cleary, the
titleholder, who were due to meet
in the last match of the champion-
ship.
In the event Marshall beat Cleary
3663-3225, though Cleary had the
best individual break in the match
(493). It was Marshall’s 15th
Australian title.
Queenslanders still remember the
1953 clash between Marshall and
Cleary in Brisbane, when Marshall
got up in the last hour to win with
the world-record break of 702.
* * m
As it has done more than
once in the past, Essendon
came with a late run to
qualify for whatever joy it
may find in being outed by
Melbourne in next Saturday's
V.F.L. grand-final. Anyway,
that’s how it looks on per-
formances, especially after the
belting the Demons gave Carl-
ton, and Essendon’s narrow
enough win (8.9-7.8) over
Carlton last Saturday.
* * *
Surprising nobody, and
adding much to the centenary
jubilation in its neck of the
Sydney woods, Randwick duly
walloped Northern Suburbs,
16-0, in last Saturday’s Rugby
Union grand-final.
* * *
“Golfer”: Both Sam Snead
and Cary Middlecoff, who’ll
battle to win the Canada Cup
for the U.S., have made
fortunes from the game. Snead
is probably the greatest
natural player in the world. In
26 years as a pro. he has won
more than 100 tournaments,
has repped for the U.S. in
four of the six Canada Cup
tournaments played. He and
Ben Hogan won for the U.S.
in 1956. Snead has only one
disappointment about his golf
—he has never won the U.S.
Open. But he has a cupboard-
ful of trophies which show
wins in the American P.G.A.
championship (three times),
British Open (1946), U.S.
Masters (three times) and the
Vardon Trophy (four times).
He brings to golf the same
color as Jack Dempsey brought
to the boxing-ring. Since 1947
Cary Middlecoff has never
been out of the first 10 in the
big-money list. Yet he limits
his competitions to 20 tourna-
ments a year—concentrating,
of course, on the big ones. His
record includes two wins in
the U.S. Open and a Masters’
victory. Like Snead, he’s a
gifted “showman.”


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
ABORIGINAL PROBLEMS
A Manchester “Guardian”
editorial on the death of
Albert Namatjira brought,
over the past several weeks,
some letters to the editor from
prominent people on the
present situation of the
aborigines in Australia.
The first, from Eoin Aber-
deen, F.R.C.S., claimed that
the extinction of the aborigines
“in a comparatively few
generations seems predictable”:
“The causes of this eclipse
are many but can be sum-
marised by saying that these
Stone Age nomads are. not able
to adjust to the changed
environment which is filling a
steadily increasing part of their
continent.
“A desire to help these
amiable, tolerant and fun-
loving folk is not lacking
among those who live in the
remote areas. Police, native-
welfare officers, station-
managers and missionaries are
all commonly sympathetic
friends to the original owners
of this vast land: it is not
common to find antipathy in
these personal relations. The
medical care provided, usually
through the Royal Flying
Doctor Service, is of a high
order by medical standards.
“Why is it then that these
people, in spite of the evident
goodwill, are not likely to
survive? Should more help be
provided to train them how to
use what we call civilisation, or
is it that any close association
with European communities
can only result in their extinc-
tion? The facts are not agreed
upon by the few anthro-
pologists who have made a
study of the aborigines in their
present environment, but the
steady decline of these primi-
tive people supports the second
hypothesis.
“If this be true, does the
only hope then rest in the
establishment of native reserves
where palaeolithic customs may
continue, shielded by the white
man from the white man? If
this is necessary, then it will
need to be decided during the
next decade or two, or the point
may become a purely dialectic
one. That the critical facts
should be clearly assessed is the
first need, and this requires that
trained observers should do the
assessing.
“It may be that we are
observing the conclusion of
what has been known to have
occurred so often in history
and in prehistory—the rejection
of a Species by evolution. Is it
that we are too close to the
problem to view it in historical
perspective, or is such a thought
a device for soothing troubled
conscience?
“The problem remains, and
if the only help offered the
Australian aborigines continues
to be that of men of goodwill
and abundant charity, but lack-
ing any expert anthropological
—London “News Chronicle .”
“NOW THIS TIME WE'LL TRY THREE HEARTY SHOUTS OF ‘WE LIKE
IKE,’ THEN WE’LL ALL RAISE THE ROOF WITH ‘THE STAR-SPANGLED
BANNER.’”
directions, then the result seems
predictable.”
“Degradation”
In a qualifying reply to the
Aberdeen letter, author Eric
Lambert claimed that what
threatens the aborigines is “not
so much extinction as utter
degradation”:
“Wherever the aborigine has
come into contact with the
white man he has been the
victim of social degradation.
Namatjira was merely the most
notorious of many cases.
When, some years ago, Albert
was taken in a white man’s
charge from his reservation to
meet royalty, on the three-day
bus-journey he was obliged to
sleep in a garage and on a
woodheap respectively, while
the white passengers rested in
hotels. Although presentable
as Australia’s most famous
third-class citizen, he neverthe-
less was not permitted to sleep
in a white man’s bed.”
Furthermore, notes Lambert,
“where the aborigine has
attempted self-help he has been
ruthlessly discouraged. There
was the case some years ago
of Fred Waters, a leader of the
aboriginal stockriders, on
whom the economy of the
northern cattle-lands depends.
Attempting to unionise his
fellows and negotiate for higher
pay than their present low rate,
he was arrested and banished
to the high land at Haast’s
Bluff, where the weather is
cold. This was more-or-less
a sentence of death, and only
Australia-wide public protests
saved Fred Waters.
“In Western Australia the
white man Don McLeod,
who formed the aborigines into
co-operatives, has been con-
sistently persecuted by the
Government over many years
for the offence of luring
aborigines away from slave-
like dependence on station-
owners to self-dependence in
their co-operatives. Many
white men in the West have
paid the penalty of official per-
secution and even imprison-
ment in their practical attempts
to teach self-help to the
aborigines.
“Two initial steps seem
necessary to avoid the total
degradation of this gifted and
lovable race: (1) Recognition of
the tribal aborigine as member
of a primitive communist
society with freedom to act
according to the rules of that
society, the only rules he
understands; (2) The dignity
of education and full citizen-
ship to detribalised or half-
caste members of the race.
Then, in time, perhaps, our
treatment of the aborigines will
not be, as your recent leading-
article remarked, a matter for
shame.”
“Moment of Truth”
Then, from journalist
Murray Sayle, came “a per-
sonal moment of truth” which
he hoped might “help to illus-
trate the indifference of most
city-bred Australians (the great
majority of the population) to
the disgraceful treatment we
have given our aboriginal com-
patriots.
“I was born and bred in
Sydney, and I can remember
seeing only one aborigine there:
in bare feet, wearing cast-off
clothes, he sold boomerangs at
the seaside suburb of La
Perouse. 1 fell easily into the
attitude of Sydneysiders, and
regarded him not so much as a
man as the human equivalent
of the kangaroo, the koala and
the rest of our exotic fauna.
Certainly I felt no guilt about
him.
“Coming to Britain, I read
the news from Johannesburg
and Little Rock with the same
indignation which, I should
hope, anyone not blinded by
bigotry and self-interest would
have. There seemed nothing
incongruous about my attitude:
Australians think of themselves
as fair-minded, kindly, always
on the side of the underdog.
Perhaps everyone does. But,
reading Eric Lambert’s letter to
you, I was moved to search
my memory to find what part,


Fatih in Ilie
Future
It is an axiom of modem progress that a
country’s industrial growth is reflected in its
appetite for steel.
By that standard, we can say that Australia
is in a state of healthy thriving. In ratio to
population we now rank sixth among the world’s
consumers of steel, and the demand for it is rising
at a faster rate than our human numbers
are increasing.
Very much has gone into expansion of the
Australian steel industry; mammoth investment,
wise direction, good workman skills. In seven
years the production of steel ingots has
been doubled.
And yet we are told in a survey report from
the Department of Trade that Australia by 1965
may need a million tons a year more than will
come from the industry’s current big programme
for extending capacity.
Projecting the national requirement over the
next ten years, the Broken Hill Proprietary has
estimated that present steel-making capacity will
have to be increased by more than sixty per cent,
to keep up with anticipated demand.
This is a challenge—involving, as it does,
satisfaction of supply for the many vital and
growing industries that are serviced by steel. But
it is one which I believe we can confidently meet.
Coal for our well-sited iron and steel works is
here in abundance. Accessible high-grade iron ore
from South Australia and Western Australia is in
reported reserve for forty years. That is not long,
in the broad national view; but exploration is
active for other discoveries, and research is being
directed to ways of efficiently using our known
big deposits of low-grade iron.
Above all, there is the spirit which in less
than half a century has built up a huge Australian
industry capable of producing iron and steel for
home and export at low world cost.
With such a spirit enlivening the whole of our
Australian effort, every material problem of the
future will most surely be met with a practical and
winning answer.
if any, I had myself played in
the persecution of the
aborigines.
“Only one incident, itself
small, came to mind. I remem-
ber, as a child in the ’thirties,
on holiday in Taree, a small
town on the North Coast of
New South Wales, going to
the local picture-hall to see
a Jessie Matthews film. There
was a rope down the centre of
the hall: whites sat on one
side, aborigines and half-castes
on the other. I have no idea
who enforced this, or how:
I didn’t ask, because it seemed
as natural as breathing or
Bondi Beach, which I doubt
has ever seen an aborigine since
the white man came.
“It was, in fact, only the
other day that I admitted to
myself that every country town
in New South Wales is a Little
Rock: this in a country which
professes affection for the
aborigine, in which railway-
trains and postage-stamps are
decorated with ‘aboriginal’ art
—not, of course, the work of
aborigines. Is it not in my
own ignorance and indiffer-
ence, taken as representative,
that the trouble lies? Like Mr.
Lambert and most Australians
who have had the chance to
see their country from the out-
side, as the world sees us, I am
ashamed.”
Official Policy
Between the Lambert and
Sayle letters came one from Sir
Eric Harrison, Australian High
Commissioner in London, out-
lining official Australian policy
on the aboriginal problem:
“The dilemma the Australian
authorities faced was complete
segregation or assimilation. On
the answer to this question
depended the entire direction
of the aboriginal welfare-
programme. With the help of
expert anthropological advice
as well as the practical experi-
ence of people who have spent
a lifetime working in the
interests of the aborigines, the
Commonwealth and State
Governments agreed that the
salvation of these proud, fine
people lay in assimilation.
Even if it were possible to
shield 73,000 aborigines from
white civilisation they them-
selves refuse to be segregated.
In fact, many of them have
been so long in contact with
settlers, missions and white
communities that their tribal
links are slight.
So the past 10 years have
brought a complete about-face
in aboriginal policy. The
fundamental concept of the
b e W approach is the very thing
that once caused the decline
of this race —closer contact
with white people. We are
encouraged to believe that this
will succeed by the fact that
for the first time since white
settlement the aboriginal popu-
lation is now increasing.
“Stated in its simplest terms,
the policy of assimilation
means encouraging and help-
ing the aborigines to live, work
and think as white Aus-
tralians, and to advance to a
place in the community on a
basis of complete social,
political and economic equality.
That is the aim. The Govern-
ments concerned regard this as
mainly a social rather than a
racial problem. Obviously it
will be a long and difficult
process. It may take several
generations. Many adult
aborigines find it impossible to
change an age-old pattern of
life and thinking. But the
children are bright and intel-
ligent, and many learn as
quickly as European children.
“The keys to the programme
are the special assimilation
settlements and missions dot-
ting the Northern Territory.
Schools, hospitals and train-
ing-facilities are provided at
these centres, and here
aborigines are helped by people
dedicated to their welfare to
take the first steps towards
their place in the community.
“As many aborigines as
possible are encouraged (but
not compelled) to move into
these centres —half-way houses
which will eventually dis-
appear. Your correspondent is
therefore astray when he pre-
dicts that in spite of the good-
will towards them, these people
are not likely to survive. They
are surviving. They are, in
fact, increasing. And they
have a predictable future in
the Australian community.
Hope in Assimilation
“The hope for the future of
the aborigines does not lie
exclusively, as your correspon-
dent argues, in sheltering them
in native reserves. It lies in
assimilation. But thousands
who choose to live their own
lives in their own way are free
to do so.
“Your correspondent says
that unless the question of
providing reservations is de-
cided in the next decade or two
it will become purely a dialectic
one. The fact is that this ques-
tion has already been resolved
—nearly two decades ago.
Nearly 80,000,000 acres are
proclaimed as aboriginal areas
which no white man may enter
without approval. The
aborigines are not ‘excluded
into the arid wastes’ but are


given the exclusive occupancy
of their own traditional hunt-
ing-grounds and sacred tribal
territories.
“The recently passed Wel-
fare Ordinance is based on the
premise that full Australian
citizenship is as much the birth-
right of the aborigine as it is
of any white Australian. It
provides that individuals (as
with some individual whites)
may be in need of special pro-
tection as ‘wards.’
“Albert Namatjira, the
painter, and other outstanding
members of his race have
shown that the aborigine has
the capacity to attain a higher
degree of civilisation. The un-
happy case of Namatjira was
also a warning of the need to
hasten slowly. Namatjira had
the full rights of an Australian
citizen, including the right to
buy liquor. But the white
men’s responsibilities under the
law went with those rights,
and one of them was not to
supply liquor to aboriginal
wards in need of care and pro-
tection. Namatjira followed
the aboriginal tradition of
sharing everything with rela-
tives and friends, and when it
came to liquor the effects were
utterly disastrous.”
Jet Questions
“T T.S. News and World
Report” (an independent
weekly news-magazine pub-
lished at Washington, U.S.A.I
notes that, in spite of the
admirably rapid development
of world air-travel by jet, head-
lined accidents involving the
new Boeing 707 have lately
raised questions, “in and out
of the aviation industry,” about
the future of jet travel:
“Here, from official sources
and from pilots who have
logged hundreds of hours in
the planes, are the facts.
“The Boeing 707 went into
scheduled airline service in
October, 1958. It now is being
flown by four U.S. airlines and
one foreign airline. Fifty-two
of the jet liners have been
delivered, and 145 more are
on order. Those delivered in-
clude three of the military-
transport version, the VC-
-137A, to be flown by the U.S.
Military Air Transport Service
for travel by President Eisen-
hower and other high Govern-
ment officials.
“A recent count showed that
the 707 s had carried a total
of more than 600,000 pas-
sengers more than two-billion
passenger-miles. The jets have
logged 40,000 hours in
scheduled operations, covering
close to 25-million miles. One
has been involved in a fatal
crash, killing five crewmen.
There have been no passenger
fatalities.
“The jets’ record on engine-
trouble is termed excellent by
officials of the [U.S.] Federal
Aviation Agency. One airline
has had one engine ‘shutdown’
in flight for each 13,000 hours
of jet-engine operation.
“A shutdown does not neces-
sarily mean a complete failure.
Another airline has had a shut-
down for each 24,000 hours
of engine-operation. These
records, states an F.A.A.
official, are five to ten times
better than for piston-planes.
Pilots say that the hazard in-
volved in operation of either
jet- or piston-planes with an
engine out is not so great as
the public seems to think. In
virtually all such situations,
landings are made without
incident.
“Many emergencies involv-
ing the 707 trace to trouble
in the hydraulic system which
raises and lowers the landing-
gear and operates the brakes.
Boeing engineers concede that
the plane has had more than
a normal amount of hydraulic
trouble. Changes suggested by
them "and approved by the
F.A.A. have been made to
clear-up these ‘bugs.’ In all
cases of hydraulic failure,
emergency systems—similar to
those on piston-planes—have
operated wheels and brakes and
brought the aircraft in safely.
“The fatal crash on Long
Island and the shaking-loose of
an engine over France occurred
when the planes were on train-
ing-flights. On these flights all
kinds of emergency situations
are set-up to train pilots. In
both incidents the plane is
reported to have been flying
with both engines on one side
shut-down, presenting one of
the most difficult control-
situations a pilot is likely to
experience. F.A.A. officials
state that the possibility of
such a situation’s actually
developing in passenger opera-
tions is ‘very remote.’
“Official investigation of the
near-fatal dive of the 707 over
“TELL ME, MR. K., WHAT WOULD YOU DO IF YOU
HAD MILLIONS OF DEVIATIONISTS?”
(Cartoonist Abu, in London "Observer,” on the visit of Gaitskell and
Bevan to- Moscow early this month.)
the North Atlantic pinned the
blame on malfunction of the
‘automatic pilot’ device. The
pilot of the plane was fined
by the F.A.A. for being out of
the cockpit when the dive
began, though he did manage
to return to his seat and pull
the plane out in time.
“ ‘Hard’ landings, such as the
one at Chicago that broke-off
the nose-wheels, are said by
pilots to be due to the fact that
a ‘pure’ jet handles somewhat
differently on the landing-
approach than a propeller-
driven plane. One seasoned
707 pilot states that the airlines
need to maintain a closer con-
tact between their top pilots,
who thoroughly understand the
new plane, and the pilots
‘further down the line’ in their
training-programme.
“All in all, say F.A.A.
officials, the Boeing plane has
had less major trouble than
many new airliners. Official
records show it was necessary
to ground, temporarily, some
of the new planes introduced
after the war. One had trouble
with engine-fires, another ex-
perienced two fuselage-fires,
and a third lost a wing in flight
because of a faulty spar.
“The 707 and the other jet-
liners now in operation the
British Comet and the French
Caravelle —have been accepted
with . enthusiasm by air-
travellers. Latest official
figures on load-factors —per-
centage of available seats filled
—show this:
“Pan American World Air-
ways, on routes across the
North Atlantic, has averaged
91.5 per cent, of seats filled.
American Airlines, on nonstop
flights across the U.S., has
averaged 92.5 per cent. Trans
World Airlines, also on non-
stop flights across the U.S.,
has averaged 95.3 per cent.
Continental Air Lines, flying
routes from Chicago west to
California, averaged 82.7 per
cent.
“National Airlines, which
offered ‘pure’ jet - service
between New York and Miami
during the winter season, had
load-factors well over 90 per
cent, except toward the end of
the season. For comparison,
anything above 70 per cent, of
seats filled has been considered
excellent in airline operations
before the jets started flying.”
Footnote from the same
paper: “A measure of the
change air-travel has brought
to the world is seen in his
comparison: In June, 1939, a
Mrs. Clare Adams left New
York to make a round-the-
world trip by air. It took her
16 days, 19 hours and 8
minutes. Now, as shown in the


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. .. .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; i year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.j):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to. country cheques ,,
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to the Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
chart above, a round-the-world
flight by jet on scheduled air-
lines would require 2 days, 21
hours, 30 minutes. That in-
cludes a 13-hour delay in
Tokyo to make connections.”
(i Copyright, 1959, U.S. News
Publishing Corporation .)
Dragnet Digest
London “New Statesman”:
“Where Chinese Communism
meets Indian democracy in the
Himalayan Mountains history
appears to be repeating itself.
In the years after the war
Stalin’s brutal policy of politi-
cal aggression drove the natjons
of western and southeril
Europe into the Western camp.
The Marshall Plan, and the
economic upsurge it produced,
the creation of Nato and Ger-
man rearmament, the slow
decline of the Western Com-
munist parties—these were the
foreseeable response to a
policy of territorial encroach-
ment through subversion. And
even six years after Stalin’s
death the alternative policy of
peaceful competition has failed
to redress the balance.
“Is Mao Tse-tung about to
make the same mistake in
Asia? Just why he should
decide to turn- India, his
friendly neighbor and inter-
national backer, into an angry
nest of wasps is a matter of
speculation. His decision may
arise from the trouble he has
created for himself by his
unnecessary and continuing
violence in Tibet. Its inevit-
able effect is to drive India
and perhaps other Asian coun-
tries towards the West and so
make more likely that fatal
polarisation of the world which
Mr. Nehru for 12 years has
struggled to avoid.”
* * *
Walter Lippmann, in N.Y.
“Herald Tribune”: “The Soviet
Union must avoid nuclear war
if it is to carry-out its seven-
year plan of internal develop-
ment. But for the success of
its development of Siberia it
needs also assurance of stability
and peace on its frontier with
China.
“The Soviet Union, India,
the United States and the
Western Allies have a common
interest in containing the ex-
pansionist aggression of revo-
lutionary China. This does
not mean that they can sign
a pact or a declaration saying
so. But without its being said
it can be understood. It seems
quite fitting that the President
should pay a visit to Mr.
Nehru in Delhi on his way
home from seeing Mr. Khrush-
chev in Moscow.
“If we are to find common
grounds, even tacitly, with the
other great Powers of Asia on
the containment of the Chinese
revolution, we must refrain
from telling them ‘We told
you so.’ Our policy of non-
intercourse with the Chinese
revolution is an impossibility
Illingworth, in London “Daily
Mail.”
for India and is inconceivable
for the Soviet Union. The
Indians may be right, more-
over, in arguing that we are
not controlling Red China by
excluding her from the United
Nations, and that within the
United Nations Red China
would be subject to many
influences that she cannot
ignore and that would urge
restraint.”
• * *
Baltimore “Sun”: “Modesty
has shown its comely face in
the field of space-exploration.
Dr. T. Keith Glennan, chief of
the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration, acknow-
ledges that, in its civilian efforts
to get on with the conquest of
space, the United States has
tried to go too far too fast.
We are not nearly so well
advanced in space-technology
as we had thought or hoped.
“What is more, we have
talked too big, and too in-
accurately. The ‘successful
failures’ in so many launchings
have, after all, not been suc-
cesses. Though each has pre-
sumably added to the sum of
technological information, they
have still been failures.
“Under the circumstances it
is time now to fall back a bit
and regroup, proceeding hence-
forward at a slower pace, step
by logical step.”
Various Voices
Chancellor Adenauer: “I
don’t hate Socialism or the
form of it called Communism.
I go further. In certain stages
in the development of a nation
perhaps Socialism can be a
form of economic development
that promotes progress. But
I do not believe that Socialism
is the final stage of any
people’s development, because
men are not angels and saints
who behave without regard for
their personal interests.”
* * *
Ernst Scharnowski (founder
and president of Berlin’s Free
Trade Unions): “We Berliners
have 14 years of hand-to-hand
combat with the Communists
behind us, and we know what
it is like. One thing is clear.
Whatever they agree will never
make the Popes of Commun-
ism give-up their aggression.
They have a credo. This credo
commits them to fight globally,
even for other planets. Only
yield for a moment and they
will move in. Their weapons
are spiritual, military, econo-
mic—and they will use which-
ever of them the situation
demands. They will even use
a summit-conference.”
* * *
President Eisenhower: “I
think that the problem of the
underdeveloped nations is
more important for Western
civilisation than this problem
of the Soviet-Western differ-
ences and quarrel. There are
one - billion seven - hundred-
million people living today
without sufficient food, cloth-
ing and health-facilities. They
are not going to remain
quiescent. They are just going
to have an explosion if we do
not help them ; and the biggest
co-operative job of all in the
world which calls itself civil-
ised —including the Soviet—is
to help those people so that
they can achieve their legiti-
mate aspirations.”
* * *
Lord Hailsham: “The fact
remains that the nation State
in isolation is no longer a
viable entity, and if we are
to preserve our respective
countries in independence, we
can no longer hope to preserve
them in isolation. The pattern
of trade and industry, the dis-
coveries of science and tech-
nology on the one hand, and
on the other the cultural,
moral and civilised values
themselves, no less than the
requirements of strategy and
defence, follow a pattern
transcending national boun-
daries and require a code of
conduct between free peoples
differing radically from what
has sufficed before.”


Famed—and Forgotten
First Australian Novelist
By JOHN EARNSHAW
Place of refuge chosen for the exiled
Dalai Lama, the once-famous
Musoorie, high in the foothills of
the Himalayas, has a direct Aus-
tralian interest.
There, below the faded bungalows of
the sanatoria, steeply terraced into the
hillside, is the old English cemetery. On
one of the higher terraces, beneath a
grove of ever-whispering deodars, is the
neglected grave of John Lang, first
Australian-born novelist. Here he has
lain forgotten for almost a hundred
years.
His tombstone bears the simple
inscription: “In Memory of John Lang,
Barrister at Law, who died at Musoorie
on the 20th August, 1864, aged
years.” Around him are the graves of
long-departed servants of the East India
Co. and officers of the British Raj.
"Oorn in Sydney in 1816, a second-
generation Australian, Lang was the
mok brilliant “currency lad” of his day.
Educated at Sydney College and Cam-
bridge, he married, was admitted to the
London Bar in 1841, and returned to
Sydney with his gently-born wife in the
same year.
But, despite family wealth and polish
of four years abroad, the “pure Merinos”
of Sydney society turned a cool shoulder
to one whose roots went back to the
First Fleet. Lang was too proud to
bear this social obloquy. Turning his
back on his native land, he sailed for
India in April, 1842, never to return.
After several years in Calcutta, he
moved, in 1845, to Meerut, an import-
ant military town 80 miles south of
Musoorie. Here he founded and edited
“The Mofussilite,” which became during
his life one of the most influential pro-
vincial newspapers in India. Apart from
journalism, he continued to practise his
profession, and appeared in many cele-
brated cases, receiving on occasions
princely fees from native rulers for his
services.
Now earning a handsome income,
Lang moved freely into the cream of
Anglo-Indian society. The faint echoes
of the First Fleet could be forgotten.
Botany Bay was far away.
Where his headstone was found —view from Musoorie across the English cemetery,
with Himalayas beyond.
/”"\VER the ensuing years he contributed
many articles on the Indian scene to
the Charles Dickens periodical “House-
hold Words” and other London journals.
Among these is one entitled “The Hima-
layan Club,” which vividly describes the
gay social swirl at Musoorie in the days
before the Indian Mutiny ; when gentle-
men lost fortunes at the card-table over-
night and wives their reputation in a like
span.
During the 1850’s Lang published nine
novels, a book of short-stories and a
volume on his travels in India. He also
wrote the melodrama “Plot and
Passion,” which had a prolonged run on
the London stage and was repeated for
many years afterwards.
Only two of his books have an Aus-
tralian setting: The Forger’s Wife, a
tale of Sydney in convict times, and
Botany Bay, or True Stories of the Early
Days of Australia. The latter is his best-
known work, and ran through many
editions. It contains many references
to actual events in the first 50 years of
Sydney’s history, and did much to
popularise the well-known
legend of Fisher’s Ghost.
"lyo portrait of Lang is known
' to exist, but those who
knew him in his later years
remark on his handsome
appearance, engaging manner
and brilliant powers of conver-
sation : “There was not a sub-
ject he could not take up with
graceful ease. His wit was ever
ready. His marvellous memory
continually flashed forth appro-
priate illustrations from the
ancient classics. He was a
remarkable amateur actor....
and one of the best Persian
scholars that ever came to
India.”
Undoubtedly Australia lost
one of the most talented of her
native sons when he went into
exile.
The site of his grave
remained unknown until
recently, when it was found,
thickly moss-covered, by Mr.
Puskar Nath Tanka, of the
Tilak Memorial Library,
Musoorie. Iron railings that
once enclosed the plot have
long since rusted away in the
moist Himalayan air. They
should be replaced and the
headstone preserved.


■la
1
eaM/
IN
\ V
Nv
Wm
m
1
#r
SSi!
g::?'
«S*S
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
(DEPOSITS GUARANTEED BY THE PARENT COMPANY)
cracks. We inserted pointed
stakes into the cracks and
levered needle-rocks apart so
that they fell in heavy square
blocks. It was like dismantling
a three-dimensional jigsaw
puzzle with the knowledge that
never again could it be so
superbly assembled^
We worked my vehicle onto
smooth ground, then sat in the
sun on heavy square blocks and
drank sweet tea from the
district commissioner’s thermos.
T jerked the dregs of that
sweet tea onto the ground
and stood up just as the district
commissioner said: “Don’t
move. Elephant,” in Swahili.
The tribal policemen moved
all right. They rapidly became
part of the shadow of my
vehicle while I stood like a
banana-plant dripping with
sweat.
There is a belief that
elephants cannot see you
unless you move, but I am not
sure that this belief has been
effectively tested. But true or
false, a line of elephants
walked past on the roadway
without molesting us.
“Will I run?” I murmured.
“Don’t run,” said the district
commissioner quietly. “Don.’t
talk.”
As those elephants padded
past on the lava-dust of the
roadway, their trunks flicked at
every object within reach: the
bushes, the bank, the ground
and each other. By the time
the last had passed, my
trembling knees could scarcely
support me, and a crowd of
small black ants had attacked
the dregs of the sweet tea. As
the water-content evaporated,
residual sugar excited them so
that they dislodged leaves,
twigs and pebbles in their
efforts to extract it.
As the last elephant turned
his back on us we all slipped
into my vehicle and I swung it
so that we could observe the
elephants through the side-
windows. If you observe
elephants through the wind-
screen it means you are pointed
in the wrong direction.
When the elephants reached
the semi-ruined government
school they flicked at it with
their trunks and then set about
ruining it completely. They
nodded at walls till they toppled
them, they spilled floorboards
like matches and they ploughed
the ground with their tusks.
“We shan’t build another
school there,” said the district
commissioner, “because the
elephants will make a habit of
revisiting the place.”
We drove back to Jamskoni
administrative centre, and over
the next few days received
reports from widely scattered
points of Jamskoni district
describing elephant activity.
Not only had elephants bat-
tered our government school,
but also they had ruined a
police-post, a tea-factory and
two churches.
"Mow, because I was in danger
of losing pay for having
caused damage to a govern-
ment vehicle, I propitiated the
district commissioner by advis-
ing him how elephants could
be thwarted in future.
“You buy large quantities of
Epsom salts with government
funds,” I advised, “and you
spread those quantities around
all government buildings.”
“Not bad,” said the district
commissioner, and he followed
my advice.
Nevertheless while the long
dry lasted, and while elephants
migrated from the hot plains in
large numbers, two medical
clinics and a bridge were
destroyed in spite of the
Epsom salts.
The elephant has a
tremendous appetite for kitchen
salt. He will dig huge caverns
in search of salt traces, and he
will even destroy stone build-
ings if kitchen salt has been
cunningly spread about by
genuine gangsters like Colonel
Mahamedi Marete whose lives
are dedicated to the overthrow
of the present government.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSON 4
O'SUI'U'AN
PIT ITB v
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS St OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS *
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
"JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
U-, and Posterity
Is there any way in which a
nation can bequeath a national
asset to posterity?
Thoughtful people in W.A.
are asking this question as they
survey the recent, very deter-
mined, attempt to have part of
King’s Park handed-over for
sporting-facilities—the begin-
ning, if successful, of the dis-
memberment of the park into
playing-fields.
When the park was first set
aside—or, rather, when its
area was increased to about
1000 acres—the statesmen of
the day imagined they were
bequeathing to future genera-
tions a section of natural bush
of the type the first settlers
found along the Swan River,
and that it would be held for
that purpose. Over the years
the park became a legend and
a monument to the first
settlers; and they couldn’t
have wished for a better one.
But it became more than
that. As clearing progressed
it became a small bird- and
flower-land in the heart of a
city ; a place where city school-
children could study birds they
could never otherwise have
seen, and adult naturalists and
scientists could learn how
plants lived and developed in
But I don't Want you to follow in my footsteps, son.
I Want you to study with the great white witch-doctors
at Sydney University.”
the days when the mastodons
roamed.
King’s Park is now one of
the few spots in W.A. —pos-
sibly the only spot —where this
peculiar and interesting type
of flora can be preserved. It’s
becoming increasingly import-
ant that it should be preserved,
not only for schoolchildren
and amateur naturalists but for
its scientific value. New drugs
are being developed from
extracts from Australian
plants; and there may be a
plant in King’s Park and
only in King’s Park which
could- yield a cure for cancer.
This is of major concern to
the whole of Australia.
Throughout the continent,
wherever the native flora is in
danger of extinction, reserves
should be established, to be
maintained in their native con-
dition for ever. Already some
species must have ceased to
exist. As a nation, and in the
interests of humanity, we can’t
afford to lose any more.
But if such reserves are
established, how can we
guarantee they’ll be preserved?
What safeguards can we erect
against the vandalism of some
future generation? I can sug-
gest only one solution: a
national trust, to be given
complete control of such
national assets as it is con-
sidered desirable to preserve
for posterity. The trust would
safeguard historic buildings,
monuments, parks, areas of
timber, and any other such
worth-while public assets. And
it should be absolutely free
from political control.
That isn’t, of course, a com-
plete solution. I don’t believe
there is any way in which one
generation can be forced to
accept responsibilities imposed
on it by preceding generations
for the benefit of those still
to come. But I think such a
trust may well act in a care-
taker capacity until tradition
becomes strong enough to
ensure greater protection
against vandalism. Pieter
Nuyts (W.A.).
Superannuation
Is superannuation such a
blessing? A Government
official, when in work, is com-
pelled to pay into a superannu-
ation fund. If he gets more
than £8 15s. a week when he
retires his pension is taxed for
social services. The couple
next-door can have a private
income of £7 a week, and still
draw an old-age pension of
'£B 15s. p.w. They can also
get free doctor, free medicine,
half-rates in trains and trams,
half wireless-licence and other
concessions. The poor old
superannuatee has to pay full
rates, and gets no concessions.
The other day I was the only
paying patient out of 16 in a
doctor’s waiting-room. There
were 10 motor-cars outside
waiting to take their fortunate
owners home. I can’t even
afford a billy-cart. — Elanora
(N.S.W.).
Blood-tests for Alcohol
There is a tendency in many
of our courts to demand more
medical and scientific evidence
in cases concerning the
drunken driver. Something
more substantial is sought than
a policeman’s statement that
“accused staggered as he got
out of the car” or “he appeared
to be under the influence of
liquor” ; something more
adequate also than conven-
tional sobriety-tests, some of
which appear either pointless
or designed to defeat the
sternest abstainer.
This increasingly critical
approach to the nature of such
evidence is desirable, and police
have mostly lent support to the
compulsory blood-test as a
method of determining guilt or
innocence. They claim it is
nearly impossible to get a con-
viction for drunken driving
except in fairly obvious cases,
and that the blood-test would
reduce the number of acquittals
due to lack of technical evi-
dence.
Accurately taken, a blood-
test shows the degree of alcohol
in the blood. From the results
it is possible to gauge closely
the amount of liquor a person
has taken. However, a test
doesn’t necessarily determine
whether a drinker is incapable
of controlling a car, though
it can be helpful. What is often
ignored is that individual
tolerances to alcohol vary con-
siderably, depending on food
taken, general health, domestic
relations and other factors.
It’s one thing to say that a
degree of alcohol in the blood-
stream indicates a minimum
liquor-consumption ; it’s quite
another to claim that anyone
who has taken that minimum
is automatically under the in-
fluence.
Yet many blood-test advo-
cates assert just that; and, as
the law stands, the motorist
would be penalised on that
assertion for consuming a


Missing Friend
WOULD EDMUND PETSCHEL (nephew
of CHRISTINE BERTHA PETSCHEL,
late of Hamilton), whose last known
address was MERINGUR, via Mildura,
in 1929-1930, and who was formerly
of KIAMAL, near Ouyen, or anyone
knowing his present whereabouts, kindly
contact MESSRS. MELVILLE &
MILLER, Solicitors, 69-71 Thompson
Street, Hamilton, Victoria ?
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
incorporated in England
m
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
certain amount of liquor with-
out its ever having been a
criminal offence.
By far the most disturbing
element of the compulsory
blood-test is its denial of the
basic legal principle that a
person may not be forced to
give self-incriminating evi-
dence.
Victorian Solicitor-General
Sir Henry Winneke was
ported to have said that such
a procedure as the blood-test
was bad, however effective it
might prove. “If it did work,”
he said, “it could lead to the
stage where people would say
that a man charged with
murder should be compelled
to make a statement.”
Superintendent R. H. Arnold,
of the Victorian police, be-
lieves it would raise a great
barrier between police and
public ; but he also says that
blood- or breath-tests are the
only way to ensure punishment
of the guilty.
Apparently this funda-
mental tenet of British justice
is not cherished in America. In
1957 the U.S. Supreme Court
confirmed the conviction, for
“motor - vehicle homicide,”
against a truck-driver who had
a blood-sample taken from
him while he was in a coma
under treatment in hospital.
The court said, inter alia : “We
therefore conclude that ' a
blood-test taken, by a skilled
technician is not such ‘conduct
that shocks the conscience’....
nor such a method of obtaining
evidence that it offends a
‘sense of justice.’ ”
More moderate advocates
recommend a voluntary test,
but hasten to say that refusal
to take it would carry an
automatic suspension of licence
—a rough type of justice imply-
ing that to drive a motor-
vehicle is a State privilege and
not a human right.
Advocates of both the com-
pulsory and the voluntary test
claim that some loss of free-
dom by the few is necessary
for the protection of the many.
There might be merit in this
argument if the blood-test were
the sole method of getting
sound evidence. But is it?
Have other methods been
properly investigated?
Professor R. J. Wright, of
“Well, if you Wont come down —toss me a coconut !”
Melbourne University, suggests
that a talking-picture record
made of a suspected driver —
the result to be compared with
his normal behavior —could be
effective without violating
human -rights.
It’s hard to concede that in
this age of technical advance-
ment no more acceptable tech-
nique than the blood-test can
be established. Apart from its
dubious legality (there are
equally competent tribunals in
conflict with the U.S. court), it
is essentially a deterrent only.
Of itself it is debatable whether
it prevents many accidents,
since similar deterrents such as
fines, imprisonment and can-
cellation of licence haven’t been
conspicuously successful.
Xavier (Vic.).
Time in the Air
Became a bit reminiscent
over “Flyaway’s” notes and
queries on slow air-trips (B.
16/9/’59).
I’ve only crossed the Atlantic
once, and that was eastward in
a tourist DC7. Going from
New York, we stopped at
Boston to refuel, and then went
non-stop for about nine dark
hours to Shannon. I’ve crossed
the Timor twice in a DC3 (once
including a climb to an un-
pressurised 15,000 ft. to circle
the peak of Lombok), and
made plenty of trips around
the Indies islands in similar
planes—as well as many be-
tween Perth and Melbourne
with head-winds and with stops
at Adelaide, Ceduna and Kal-
goorlie. In addition, I’ve had
some long and curious hops in
chartered Lockheeds.
My point was that the com-
paratively small reductions
being made in the times of
medium-distance and long
flights (to cut a three-hour trip
in half saves only an hour-and-
a-half) are being made at
immense costs for airports,
planes and all the supporting
incidentals. Such costs are not
fully met by increased patron-
age and the greater number of
trips per plane, and therefore
flying is becoming more ex-
pensive. It now seems to be at
or near the point where time-
saving for passengers is more
than outweighed by higher
charges, except for tycoons
whose time is worth a tenner
an hour or more.
Most of us, especially on
international trips, don’t worry
too much if they take, say, four
days instead of two, but we
do worry at having to pay an
extra £lOO or more. The
actual flying may be boring—
although some of the most
magnificent views in the world
must be from planes—but it
can also be restful and relax-
ing.
Let’s have a comparison be-
tween the cost of flying to
London now at 500 m.p.h. and
the estimated cost of the same
trip at 2000 m.p.h. The time
would be more than halved—
but what would the fare be? —
Mugga Way (N.S.W.).
Letting Them Eat Cake
“Farinmail’s” examples of
"workers’ incomes and food in
late-18th-century England (B.
9/ 9/ ’59) are scarcely typical.
Admittedly, workers’ wages
varied from place to place,
and it’s always hard in such
cases to strike an acceptable
average. However, such
sources as The Village
Labourer, by Hammond,
Select Documents in Australian
History (1788-1850 ), by Clark,
and Trevelyan’s Social History
give quite a different picture
from “Farinmail’s.”
The wretched rural laborers
formed a third of the work-
ing-class at the time. Dis-
possessed of their small hold-
ings as a result of enclosure of
the commons, they were com-
pelled to work for Is. to Is. 6d.
a day. Clark gives a detailed
analysis of one rural laborer’s
income and expenditure. The
weekly earnings of this man
and his wife amounted to
Bs. 6d. He spent 6s. 3d. on


flour for bread, Bd. for lib. of
bacon, and the remainder on
tea, butter, sugar, etc.
Hammond’s evidence sug-
gests this is a typical case, as
does the famous Speenhamland
meeting of J.P.s and “discreet
persons” in 1795, summoned to
fix minimum wages for rural
laborers. Its result, of course,
was the Speenhamland Act,
which gave the laborer a dole
to make-up the deficiency in
his wages. He was no better
off, and the main effect of the
system was to introduce a
universal scheme of pauperism.
There were riots and rick-
burnings in most counties, and
Lord Carnarvon could say in
Parliament that the English
laborer had been reduced to a
plight more abject than that
of any race in Europe.
The factory-hands were
better-off as far as wages were
concerned. Still, one doubts
that their average earnings
were as high as the £47 and
£42 p.a. in “Farinmail’s”
examples.
Arthur Young was astonished
at the “immense wages” paid to
factory-workers in Birmingham
in 1791:
A boy of 10 or 12 years, 2s. 6d.
to 3s. a week; a woman from 4s.
to 205., average about 65.; men
from 10s. to 255.
These were, according to
Young, the highest rates for
labor in Europe, Birmingham
being the leading manufactur-
ing town of the world at the
time.
We should remember, too,
that breadwinners in the fac-
tories had short lives as a result
of long hours, unsanitary con-
ditions and unfenced
machinery.
The well-fed prisoners
referred to by “Farinmail”
were, perhaps, being fattened
for execution, since treason
—along with over 50 other
crimes, including “sending
threatening letters” and
“cutting down trees in an
avenue” —were punishable by
death.
J. Howard’s detailed report,
The State of the Prisons, refers
to some jails “in which
prisoners have no allowance of
food at all.” His account
supports the view that the Eng-
lish penal system was the
harshest in Europe at the time.
“Farinmail’s” food-list for
the London of 1807 is indeed
impressive, but it tells us little
about the average English
worker’s menu.
Ninety per cent, of the
workers lived outside London.
The greatest distress was to be
found in the laborers’ hovels
in the southern counties and
in the grim factories and ugly
slums in the north. —B. E. D.
(N.S.W.).
“Farinmail’s” instance of
Sir Frederick Eden’s Leicester
woolcomber who was able to
buy 101 b. of meat weekly to
feed a family of apparently
three people seems irrelevant
to me. In terms of mutton-
chops this would amount to 40
chops a week ; so each of the
trio would have had slightly
more than one chop a day
to satisfy his or her meat-urge.
Moreover, as the household
had an income of about £l2
a week at least (in terms of
current purchasing-power) it
would appear that these folk
spent part of their time in
pulling Sir Frederick’s leg.
The Manchester dyer, with
but one additional mouth to
feed, would have been able
to make protein whoopee with
about a chop-and-a-half a day.
As for the Cold Bath Fields
Prison fare, that, too, has to
be consumed with a consider-
able amount of salt. In Aus-
tralia at about the same period
the standard daily ration for
convicts (male) was: lflb.
flour, |lb. fresh- or salt-beef,
ilb. salt-pork, |lb. potatoes or
lib. cabbage or turnips, }oz.
salt. Such a ration-scale made
no claim then to be lavish, but
it was in fact much the same
sort of fare as the ordinary
enlisted man got in the Navy
or Army of the period, and by
the standards of many in free-
dom in England it was by no
means an ungenerous allow-
ance.
Indeed, the whole transporta-
tion-system derived its princi-
pal inspiration from the fact
that a considerable number of
people in England at the time
couldn’t live except by thiev-
ing.
As for London’s feeding-
statistics in 1807 and the bland
assertion that most of this food
(meat, butter, fruit, vegetables,
etc.) must have found its way
into working-class homes —
that is quite ridiculous. At
that time no London workman
normally ate either fruit or
butter. In fact, the Battle of
Waterloo, eight years later, was
won, not on the playing-fields
of Eton, but on the plain fare
of bread and dripping, with
fish-’n’-chips on Saturday
night.—F. R. H. S. (Q.).
Melbourne’s Changing Face
No doubt it’s as useless to
get indignant at the changes
being made to the face of
Melbourne as it is at the spec-
tacle of a beautiful girl
arrayed in the latest Dior or
following Rubinsteinian dic-
tates on facial adornment. We
don’t know what we may feel
about the girl a couple of
months hence when the fashion
has become universal, and the
inner qualities of architecture
are just as hidden.
Modern Melbourne could
hardly be expected to fit itself
into the kind of suit that
accommodated Batman’s
village. Still, it seems a pity
that there should have been
such a complete break as we
have seen lately with the
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 557
Across
I—Headland named after an apple publisher. (8, 4)
9—Cape bowler’s subtlety. (9, 2,4)
10— Police Anton bashed with some bearing on philo-
sophy. (3-8)
11— Expose to the wind theme. (3)
12— The locker of a wheel is within grasp. (5)
14—Female to report this establishment. (7)
16 —One needing a haircut may order this in English. (7)
—Drop by an entertainment. (5)
22 Whale alternative to an old
hundred with love to a member
of an old Christian church. (3)
23 This makes one Assyrian purge
the cherub with which I replace
you. (11)
25 A divorce action in Bob’s family
is to be obstinately optimistic.
(4, 7,4)
26 — The credit of Walter King gets
the cane. (7, 5)
Down
1— June lives with youngsters. (9)
2 Strait bowman’s equipment be-
tween the North and the
South. (7)
3 Retrial for a vehicle which needs
towing. (7)
4 A pith of the matter to graze
upon public or rented grass-
lands. (5)
5 Is' no dance disorderly enough
to be sainted? (9)
6 A plumed headdress which
makes the patron of the pastures
suffer pain. (7)
7 Bleak medical man attending a
listener. (5)
8 — Mother gets some old nurse
tomorrow. (6)
13 —Pound an inexperienced foot-
baller. (9)
15 —Olga a possible outcome of this
overpowering of warders with
the pen spinner. (4-5)
17 — Begin to affect nice physical
training. (6)
18 — Give Miss Hari an overdose of
phosgene in a New Guinea
battlefield. (7)
20 — Current aversions of a faithful
dog. (7)
21— A monk and I like reasoning
from cause to effect. (1, 6)
22 Alternative holding the alter-
native thing. (5)
24—Dale associated with this Scot-
tish burgh jn Sydney. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 556.


Tp veryone knows that a sea-
voyage should not be
undertaken on an empty
stomach, so in front of both
players and singers were plates
of sliced salami, or square
hunks of home-made cheese
that smelt like old socks but
tasted all right.
On special occasions, there
were dishes of olives or chest-
nuts. Every now and then
something more substantial
would be brought out —a basin
of steaming Italian sausages,
strongly flavored with garlic
and spices and wine—lugar-
nichi or cortaghini they called
them.
Lugarnichi were made from
a mixture of beer and pork, or
sometimes from horseflesh and
pork. Reputed to be the best
of all were those made in the
older country from the flesh of
the donkey. Cortaghini were
made from the skin of the pig
and the scraps. They needed
to be cooked for about two
hours, but were tasty enough if
you had the patience" to wait.
Towards the end of the even-
ing Barney’s wife would bring
neat brandy to cauterize and
cleanse the tired palate, to
revive with shock the dulled
nerves of the stomach, and to
prepare for arrival “in Brin-
disi.” Or, if you wanted it, the
brandy was served with coffee,
fresh-ground, strong and black.
And so to Brindisi . . .
did you ever quite get
there? You were never
sure, but whatever the end of
the voyage, there was no
doubt about the return when
you woke-up next morning to
the raucous carking of the
crows.
There were no illusions now
about the bough-shed in which
you lay on the rickety spare
bed, trying to concentrate your
aching eyes only on the leaves
of the pumpkins that trailed a
dusty green, the only cool thing
within sight. You were far
from Brindisi when the door
of Barney’s whitewashed
hessian camp clattered open
with a rattle of the tin of
which it was made.
You swore “Never again!”
as Barney stood red-rimmed by
the bed with a frothing bottle,
the sight of which you could
scarcely bear, and you cursed
him as you reached for it with
a shaky hand—and he mocked,
“You feel to make the Brin-
disi again today—yes?”
tradition that produced the
lovely little houses, inns and
woolstores which still make-up
the major part of the city.
These rows and rows of little
dwellings were under sentence
of demolition just before the
Queen’s visit, and for that
event the owners had them
painted. The painting, done
with extraordinarily good
taste, brought out their beauti-
ful proportions, the elegance of
their ironwork and the quality
of their brick- and stone-work,
“Dacey’s are having a big sale next Week, dear."
and now they are a joy to look
at. •
When Gropius visited Mel-
bourne he was asked what
interested him most about its
architecture. To the discom-
fiture of the architects who
put the question, he said:
“Those little houses! ” This
world-famous architect thought
they should have been the
foundation of Melbourne’s
architecture rather than the
glasshouses he had erected
himself in Europe. They
weren’t built by architects but
by humble tradesmen who
happened to be following a
good tradition.
These are the so-called
slums of Melbourne, and
slums they are by modern
standards, which are con-
cerned with function and
economy and hardly at all with
beauty. They are dark and
damp and sometimes smelly,
and the land they occupy
costs more per inch than
formerly it did per frontage,
so they are doomed to fall and
make way for the glasshouses
which seem to be the sine qua
non of modern architecture.
One of these is to be erected
on the site of the Western
Market, a nice old rambling
building with a lot of waste
space in the centre where,
between the cloistral arches on
a hot day, wine - merchants,
wine-bibbers and stockbrokers
foregathered as shut-off from
the madding crowd as if they
were in the Never Never. It’s
to be replaced by a stupendous
pile of glassed boxes of 25
stories where 10,000 people will
moil and toil or eat and sleep
and enjoy all the privacy of
goldfish.
The old Customs House,
another noble building,
narrowly escaped the wreckers,
It was suggested that it be con-
verted into a club for Canberra
politicians with business in the
southern city, but such a
howl went up from the tax-
payers that the project was
abandoned, and the men who
sit at the receipt of Customs
wd l ban our books in a glass :
house to be erected elsewhere,
A professor of architecture
says that the Customs House,
which is on the 'spot Batman
thought would be a fine place
a village, has in its “Long
Room” the finest room in
Melbourne and that it should
b e preserved for grand occa-
s*onS-
The worst architectural news
late in Melbourne is that
the Equitable is to be de-
molished. As a young man en
route from Adelaide to the
Tar East I remember standing
on . the corner of Collins and
Elizabeth Streets, awestruck
by its grandeur. Nobody
would say today that it is one
°f. the best of Melbourne’s
buildings, but it is better than
most . It was built by Nellie
Melba’s father, and the song
sang stone on that street-
con?er was e yery bit as lovely
as th ® SOngs hls dau § hter sang
concert " P l atforms of
The granite was brought
from Wooloornai in barges
through the wild seas between
Westernport and Port Phillip.
The wharf and quarry are stiil
there. Some of the lovely
marble came from Buchan —
no small effort in the ’eighties
—and some from Europe. The
keystone of the enormous
archway weighs 15 tons, and
the entrance goes deep back
into the building, while a some-
what academic Faith, Hope
and Charity tower inside it. It
is full of marble stairways and
passages and tesselated floors.
The amount of cutting and
sawing and carving and polish-
ing by manual craftsmen in
making these must have been
enormous.
I couldn’t discover the name
of the architect responsible for
it, but if he came up with the
same conception of a business-
building today he would
probably be regarded as a
lunatic. The entrance alone
occupies sufficient space for a
dozen offices ; there is a shock-
ing waste of space on the land-
ings ; and to heat and air-
condition it would cost a
fortune. I spoke to an old
retainer about it. “It’s sad, sir,
to see it go,” he said, “but
you’ve got to move with the
times, you know.”
I suppose you do. I
walked along Queen Street,
where dozens of old buildings
have been pulled down, one of
which, an artist’s studio, had
very rich associations for me.
In their place enormous
fabrications of steel and con-
crete are going up. Not that
steel and concrete couldn’t be
used as beautifully as Buchan
marble, but it is as unlikely that
that will happen as that the
sun won’t rise tomorrow.
To cheer myself up I turned
my feet towards Young and
Jackson’s, but overshot the
mark and found myself inside
St. Paul’s Cathedral. Is there
anywhere anything lovelier
than its great nave, its inter-
secting arches and its soaring
pillars, or richer in the variety
of its light and shade and
color?
There were three old ladies
praying, and somebody was at
the organ, the Gothic music
seeming perfectly to match the
building. St. Paul’s, at least,
will always be a feature of the
face of Melbourne, however'
much it changes— M. G.
Skipper (Vic.).


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
GREEN FIELDS AND PASTURES NEW
(Shell Pre-Show Tour of W.A.)
By MALCOLM WALLACE
TThere will, of course, be
many more pre - Royal
Show Journalists’ Tours
(W.A.) in the years to come —
there is nothing more certain
than that—but those who took
part in the first one feel like
descendants of the men who
stood at Agincourt —“We few,
we happy few, we band of
brothers.”
Actually there were about
30 of us, including a couple
of sisters and the president of
the R.A.S. of W.A., G. Gordon
Gooch; the vice-president,
H. N. Higham ; and the secre-
tary, J. B. Marshall.
Also there was a public-
relations officer, thoughtfully
supplied by Shell Oil Co. to
ensure that we got everywhere
on time and that the schedule
was strictly adhered to. We
got very fond of Frank Bird,
and are taking him with us on
the next tour as a pet.
Of interest to all Agri-
culturists is the news
that American research
scientists have devel-
oped a new drug, which
it is claimed will suc-
cessfully control lung-
worm to be coughed
out after injection. An
old-established method
of lamb' protection is
the use of Elastrator
Rubber Rings for all
Castrating and Tailing.
Safe, sure and humane,
Elastrator Rubber Rings
greatly lessen the risk
of fly-strike, set-back
and other diseases
normally associated
with old - fashioned
methods of Castration
and Tailing.
Western Australian conditions
and distances are different from
those in the stud-breeding areas
of the eastern States, and the
Royal Agricultural Society of
W.A., which organised the
tour, and the Shell Company
of Australia, and Shell Chemi-
cal (Australia), which spon-
—“ Dalgety’s Review” Photograph.
Cheviots with “trainer” at T. F. and J. M. Robinson’s
property, York (W.A.).
sored it, were virtually path-
finding.
To inspect four widely
separated stud-properties a
day, to cover 800 miles in the
four days, and to enjoy the
almost-embarrassing hospital-
ity that was offered to us
meant that we filled every
unforgiving minute of the day
—and a lot of the night as
well.
The first day’s journey fol-
lowed the South-west Highway
and Bunbury railway-line to
Busselton, the first stop being
at the Hereford stud of N. S.
and C. C. Fletcher —Dirk
Brook, Keysbrook.
The Fletchers gave us a well-
organised parade of their Show
team at 7 a.m. (we had left
Perth at the unearthly hour
of six).
This property was for sale
25 years ago at £1 an acre,
and for a long time there were
no takers. Today the Fletchers
carry, including calves, 600
head of stud and grade Here-
fords on 1200 acres ; and one
bull, Dirk Brook Fortitude,
was sold for 1030 guineas at
a Royal Show sale in 1954.
Founded in 1948 on Timor
and Colly Creek females and
the bull South Boorook
Monash, there is now only one
bull in the stud that was not
bred on the property.
The work done at Wokalup
Research Station, which is run
by the Department of Agricul-
ture, includes the Artificial
Breeding Centre which is
expected to supply some
12,000 cows this year, experi-
ments in the breeding of dairy-
cattle and of beef-herds from
reject dairy-cows, and the
field-testing of new pasture-
plants, including the perennial
Currie and Neptune cocks-
foots, probably the most valu-
able introduction to Australian
pastures since subterranean-
clover.
The Grass Vale Romney
Marsh stud at Burekup of
R. TL Rose and Son is the
oldest and largest Romney
stud in W.A., founded in 1914
with ewes from S.A. and a
ram from N.Z. These are true
to the proper Romney type,
big-framed, robust, very even
and with splendid fleeces of
the right character of wool.
The top ram of the Show-team
would take a lot of beating
in any Show in Australia.
The nice old town of Bussel-
ton turned it on for us, and
at a civic reception one mem-
ber of the party had a lovely
talk with a bloke who turned
out to be the caretaker of the
hall: and they had both seen
Sarah Bernhardt, H. B. Tree,
Violet Vanbrugh," Marie Lloyd,
Little Tich and all, in the years
when the Empire was the
centre of London and London
was the centre of an Empire.
Dunkley Brothers at Capel
have 5000 acres of rich land
and go in for Canadian Berk-
shire pigs (which we did not
see), Hereford and A.I.S.
■cattle. At last years Royal,
their Hereford cow, Summer-
lea Victoria Ist, was supreme
champion of the breed. This
cow has had five heifer-calveS,
and is going back to the Show
this year with Summerlea Vic-
toria sth at foot and Summer-
lea Victoria 4th to keep them
company, both remarkable
cows.
The A.I.S. cow, the three-
year-old Summerlea Princess
36th, was the most outstanding
animal seen on the tour, an
eye-filling cow of great quality.
Through Donnybrook and
the Preston Valley, the orchard-
country of the hills, and over
the other side to the “blue”-
wool country, where S. F.
Jackson and Sons have built-
up a farm from 800 acres and
100 sheep to 6000 acres and
6000 sheep since 1923. Wool
from their Merryville Stud has
twice wop the Grand Cham-
pion Fleece award at the
Royal.
Powhatunui at Jingalup
supplies many of the star
horse-jump entries that delight
Royal Show patrons: it also
boasts, quite rightly, of Mrs.
Hope Russell, wife of the
owner, known as “the flying
grandmother,” who must be
the oldest woman Show-rider
in Australia.
R. N. Russell came from
New Zealand, where he had
been a steeplechase and point-
to-point rider: the Russells
run a riding-school, and the
pupils put on a great show
for us. There is no money
in the game, he assured us,
and he lives on the proceeds
from his 2200 Corriedales,
which had beautiful lambs.
Katanning, when we got
there, was very kind to us, and
we met Harry Ladyman, whose
Woodlat Poll Hereford stud
we visited next day. The
Woodlat Stud was registered
only in 1954 and didn’t show
at the Royal until last year,
when it took back both the
bull and cow championships;
and the bull, Mt. Fyans Bold
Venture, gained the supreme
championship; an unusual
performance, to say the least
of it.
Very nice, well-colored, even
cattle, the Woodlat Polls.
T. H. Anderson’s Minne-
warra Corriedale stud at
Katanning is a successful
example of in- or line-breeding,
no new blood having been
introduced for 23 years, with


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
A "must” for all
housewives —if you want
to keep them up to the
mark —are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, gar-
dening and “help”
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
the result that the sheep are
unusually even in type. A
large consignment was recently
exported to Yugoslavia, where
they are reported as doing very
well.
It was nice to see Aberdeen
Angus cattle for a change, and
H. A. Trefort, of Hillside, Nar-
rogin, has a very breedy, even
team. There was a shortage of
assistants, so we gave a hand,
and it was a fascinating sight to
watch the “Doddies,” each of
them carefully parading a
journalist.
Clarrie Russell, of Yarling
Brook, Wickepin, in the wheat
country, has done well for
himself since he sold his first
clip of four bales at 6yd. a lb.
at the first wool-auction in the
State in 1920. Just prior to our
visit he had held his first annual
sale at Narrogin, with his top
ram making 530 guineas, his
studs averaging £lB3 15s. for
51 head, and the total of 143
rams averaging £ll2 10s., a
record for the State.
Last year he won the Grand
Championships and Reserve
Grand Championships for both
rams and ewes at the Royal,
as well as the Grand Cham-
pion ram’s fleece in the wool-
section. He entertained us
most lavishly and we were
sorry to leave.
The old town of York wel-
comed us very nicely, and,
incidentally, we discovered the
most civilised pub in W.A.
T. F. and J. M. Robinson,
of Marrinup, breed Cheviots
on a large scale and with
success, the original stock hav-
ing been imported from New
Zealand. It was interesting to
find that the lambing for last
year was 140 p.c. and that
about 120 p.c. is expected this
season. (Other breeders please
note.)
K. V. Gray, at Gosnells,
showed us his PalOmino show-
breeder Phantom Gold, and
the imported Nearco horse
Cyrus ; and, at what must be
one of the last of the metro-
politan dairies, we saw the
Friesian stud of the late C. W.
Treasure.
C. W. Treasure was the lad
who came here from the Old
Country in charge of Short-
horn bulls for the Kimberleys,
and who walked the 120 miles
from Broome to Anna Plains
station leading his five Short-
horns by the hand (B.
28/1 /’59)....
We looked pityingly on the
homeward-bound mobs of
wage-slaves as we made our
noticeable progress along St.
George’s Terrace, for we had
seen many strange and interest-
ing things, and had learnt, or
refreshed ourselves, about
something of the eternal
verities.
We normally city-bound
characters had suffered a
change—and liked it.
Blossom-time
“H.0.H.": Up and down the
land orchards are bursting into
bloom —first to blossom are
plums, apricots and peaches ;
later come the apples and
pears.
We are apt to take all this
beauty as a matter of course,
and don’t stop to think of the
heavy drain that blossoming
makes on the resources of the
tree. True, it has had a rest
over the winter; but if left
unpruned apples and pears will
only flower every second year.
Thus it is important to reduce
the number of flowers to give
the bees a chance to do their
part.
There’s a lot we can learn
from the gums. These great
trees, with their, deep foots, set
their blossom-buds one year
and flower the next.
From Hattie F.
Hopkins
Lately I have been reading
several books about rural Eng-
land. They all deplore the
desertion of the land and the
decline of farming as an
occupation and of the old-
fashioned methods of cultiva-
tion. A farmer has not so
much honor in his own country
as hitherto.
H. J. Massingham expresses
himself strongly against over-
cultivation ; if too much is
taken out of the soil, the soil
dies, for soil has life and
cannot live if it is too
exhausted. He cites the case
of the Sahara desert, which
was once a tract of cultivated
country, until exploited too
much by the Romans for the
production of grain. He
describes land in England
once devoted to agriculture
and now used for bombing
experiments.
Monica Hutchings tells how
land has been taken more and
more for purposes other than
production of food. She, too,
grieves over the decline of
farming, and the way people
leave the country for the cities
—a trend not unfamiliar in
Australia.
We should neither forsake
the land nor take from it more
than it was created to yield.
We must use natural fertilisers
and discard artificial ones.
Massingham is very emphatic
about that, and also about the
production of our daily bread
as it was meant to be, with all
its vitamins restored to it, for
which we have to pay separ-
ately in the form of essential
parts of the wheat in packets.
If we could have bread with
nothing of the wheat extracted
from it there would be less
illness and disease —and no
need for the vitamin-tablets
sold in little bottles.
Although my father was a
cartoonist on The Bulletin
and excelled in many fields
of craftsmanship, he was at
heart a farmer. Ele had been
brought-up on the land, his
father having been a farmer,
although the headmaster of a
school and a surveyor by
profession.
One result of his farm-life
upbringing was that there
were no dilapidated fences on
my father’s property. Besides
making the garden himself,
laying-out and turfing the
lawns and designing the wind-
ing paths, he kept its
boundaries and the house in
repair. There were no broken
locks or squeaking hinges, or
sagging gates, to be heard or
seen, in his domestic sur-
roundings.
If a tradesman told him
that a job could not be done,
he would say, “There’s noth-
ing that can’t be done.” Not
by him, at any rate —because
of that farm-life upbringing.
When he purchased our
home it stood on a large piece
of uncultivated land growing
nothing but gumtrees. He had
deep holes and trenches dug
about the place and directed
that all household refuse should
be emptied into them, and
each relay covered with a
sprinkling of earth. When
these were full, saplings of
valuable trees were planted in
them. One of those plantings
is now a huge magnolia and
another a tall silky-oak. I use
nothing else but their fallen
leaves as fertiliser for the
garden, and rejoice in the
prolific flowering of camellia
and hibiscus-trees, hydrangeas
and bulbs. Massingham says
he never uses any other fer-
tiliser for his own garden,
which, although in England,
flourishes with tropical
luxuriance.
Why should not garbage,
which is dumped down hill-
sides and into hollows in some
of our suburbs, or into the
bush surrounding residential
areas, be used for such pur-
poses? Left lying where it
has been deposited, it putrefies,
creating unwholesome odors
and attracting vermin. How
can the residents of these
localities keep tlieir families
healthy and their homes free
from pests, when the air which
they breathe is polluted and
a neighboring garbage-tip is
infested with rats and cock-
roaches? This refuse could
be disposed of in the ground
and used as a fertilising agent.
The law of Nature is that
whatever comes out of the
earth should be returned to it.
Too much is taken out of the
land and not enough put back
into it. If the laws of Nature
were obeyed, the discrepancy
would be adjusted, the country
made more prosperous, and
the cost of living made less
extortionate.
Lcmdrcsce-cross Pigs
“Jaygee”: Ever since the
Landrace pig, of Danish origin,
was imported into Australia
from Northern Ireland by
Ed Galbraith, of Kyabram
(Vic.), there has been keen
and widespread interest in the
breed. In appearance the pure-
bred is longer and thicker than
other breeds. It is stumpy, and
grows faster, giving increased
weights at marketing, while its
meat compares favorably with
existing standards.
Many breeders in northern
districts of Victoria have intro-
duced Landrace blood into
their piggeries, and are keep-
ing statistics to see whether
or not pure Landrace make
better and quicker pork than
the crossbred progeny.
The first auction of crossed
Landrace and Large White
was held at Tatura (Vic.)
Showgrounds on August 4.
Buyers came from South Aus-
tralia, New South Wales, Tas-
mania and all parts of Vic-
toria. The top price of 120gns.


for a sow far exceeded the
expectations of the vendors,
J. L. and B. Bradley, of Olinda
Park, Tatura.
Cheviots
“Pat O’Day”: Cheviot sheep
are in high demand in Vic-
toria and are gradually infil-
trating into N.S.W., especially
around Henty, Culcairn and
Albury, where the bleak hill-
districts suit this dual-purpose
breed. Cheviot rams are ex-
pensive, besides being scarce,
and there’s also a strong
demand for the ewes.
The breed originated in the
bleak Cheviot Hills on the
Scottish border and is still
popular there as a dual-
purpose sheep. Hardy, and
maturing later than the Border
Leicester, they do well in
cold conditions and are there-
fore well suited to the rigors
of the N.S.W. tablelands
country around Tumut and
higher.
Graziers from fat-lamb dis-
tricts in Victoria are now
stocking their farms and
grazing-lands with Cheviot
ewes and using them for cross-
breeding with Border Leicester
rams. The hairy, hempy nature
of the wool is a disadvantage
in crossing, although some
strains are relatively free from
hemp. The fleece is 56 to 54
in quality, full-handling and
of good staple.
Australian breeders are par-
ticularly anxious to eliminate
hairy or hempy fibres, though
in the United Kingdom
Cheviot wools are readily
absorbed.
Dingoes
I have been after dingoes’
scalps for over 50 years, and I
agree that aerial baiting is not
generally successful. It’s im-
possible to estimate how many
dingoes would be killed by this
method, but I would say that,
in view of the expense of
chartering aircraft, each
dingo would cost a few pounds
to kill.
An article published in
the Brisbane “Courier Mail”
stated that when a dingo
swallows the bait, it will die
within 15sec. at the most,
killed by the half-grain cap-
sule of strychnine concealed
inside it. I have used all
makes of strychnine and tested
them. Giving a fresh liver-bait
and watching the animal
swallow it, with access to water,
the quickest death I’ve noted
by stopwatch was 90sec. If
the animal had been loose he
could have travelled a consider-
able distance.
Any dingo poisoned by
aerial baiting would be young
and inexperienced. An old dog
is much harder to get. I have
laid baits and set traps, using
all the wiles I know. The
dingo comes along, sniffs the
bait or the trap, lifts his leg
and fouls it, then turns and
kicks some dirt over it—just Lo
let you know that he has
passed that way.
The only way to keep the
dingo in check is by bonus,
and as the dingo gets scarcer
the bonus must go up. Con-
tinued trapping and poison-
ing makes the dingo very wary.
He is naturally good at pre-
serving himself ; otherwise he
would have been wiped-out
ages ago.
In 1910, when kangaroo-
shooting on Kymuna Station
at the head of the Diamantina
River, I was paid £3 a dingo
(the Pests Board paid £1 and
the station paid £2). While we
were on the job there were not
many sheep killed by dingoes,
but as soon as we eased, the
dingoes came back.
Barrier fences are doubtful
blocks. They may keep some
dingoes out, but they are
definitely not 100 per cent,
secure. I chased a dingo into
the corner of a dingo-fence one
day. The fence-netting, with
three wires on top, was 6ft.
high, and the dingo went right
into the corner. I was thinking
what I would do with the three-
quid but I didn’t get the
money. The dingo just climbed
up the netting, slipped through
the top wires and trotted away.
He seemed in no' hurry, looked
back a couple of times and
then made off. I don’t think
it was the first time he had
scaled a dingo-fence.
Another factor against the
dingo check-fence is that when
those western rivers come down
in flood they are miles wide,
so miles of netting-fence get
washed away. The netting
catches any debris, and the
weight of water behind it pulls
it right down. It is sometimes
weeks before it can be effec-
tively repaired, and dingoes
pass through while the fence
is down.
One of the best methods of
laying poison is to get a
marsupial carcass, take the
liver out, cut it into small
pieces, split each piece and
insert the .strychnine. Do
about a dozen pieces, then get a
stick about 2ft. long, sharpen
one end and “stick” a piece of
the liver. Make a fire from
grass or small sticks that will
soon burn to ashes, toast the
liver one piece at a time, and
put it around the carcass. Don’t
touch it with your hands. Then
put some poison at the butt of
the tail of the carcass and also
some strychnine in the blood
in the chest, where you cut the
liver from. Throw a piece of
meat on the fire when you are
leaving. By this method you
are" likely to get a dingo close
at hand. If it takes one or
more of the liver baits, it will
poke around the carcass and
the poison has time to work.
Here’s another method for
use against a very cunning
dingo. Find out where he
drinks and place some leaves
on his track, first treating them
with poisoned honey, treacle
or molasses. When the dingo
moves around, the leaves will
stick to its feet; it will stop to
lick the leaves from its pads,
and so get the poison.
Recently I heard of a chap
getting a lot of dingoes along
the Bruce Highway, so 1
made it my business to have a
look-see. I found him a first-
class bushman ; he was catch-
ing dingoes in rabbit-traps. He
had the traps strengthened, so
that the jaws would not pull
out. The chain had a touch of
oxywelding, so the links would
not part. He told me that
rabbit-traps were much cheaper
to buy and a lot lighter to
carry.
His method was to hang a
part of ’roo or wallaby on the
limb of a tree, and then set
two or three traps at intervals
underneath the baits. He always
made a fire, so that there would
be some ashes about. A dingo
does not seem to be able to
resist walking in ashes.
On the rounds of his traps
in the morning, this chap
always carried a rifle, and
when he spotted a dingo in a
trap he would shoot him. This
saved extra strain on the trap.
During my travels, I have
met many dingo-trappers, but
can count the good ones on
my ten fingers. I knew of one
station which had the one
trapper for a few years, and
the dingoes were never a worry.
He left the station. They got
another man, but he could not
cope with them. They had
several different trappers in
about a year ; then the owner
of the station came up on a
tour of inspection.
That night a dingo got in the
fowlhouse, and I shot it. (At
this time I was horsebreaking
on the station.) The owner
asked the manager where the
old trapper was, and, on being
told that he had left and was
last heard of in Cairns, straight-
away got in touch with the
Cairns police and asked them
to locate the chap. After a
couple of days, he was located.
Then, after a long-distance
phone-call, the trapper agreed
to come back. The owner told
him: “All you have to do at
the station is to collect your
pay, and you need recognise no
other boss than myself.” This
trapper, while on the job before
he went to Cairns, had been
bringing in an average of 30
scalps a month. No mean
effort, considering the others
got about two . . .
The dingo will never be
exterminated completely, be-
cause there is too much No
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(10/9/’59)
Queensland should have good general rains during
October, although falls may be light on the Peninsula and
in the north-western districts. The heaviest rains are likely
on the south-coastal areas, around Maranoa and part of
the Warrego, and good rains should extend into portion of
the far-south-western districts.
N.S.W. should receive moderate to good rains during
October, although rainfall may be light on part of the
Central Coast. Heavy general rains and widespread flooding
may occur in November, and reasonably, good follow-on
rains are likely in December.
Good general rains are indicated in Victoria during
October, with heaviest falls and some flooding in the central
division. Heavy rains and widespread flooding are probable
in November.
South Australia should get good general rains in
October, and reasonably good rains should continue during
November. However, falls may be patchy and below normal
during December.
In Western Australia there should be good rains in the
south-western agricultural areas and around Eucla and the
south-east, and heavy falls in the north-eastern areas. Rain-
fall may be poor in the rest of the State.
LENNOX WALKER.


Man’s Land in Queensland —
scrubby mountains and rough
country, where nobody wants
to go. That’s what saves the
dingo. If you start west of
Ingham and go right along to
Cloncurry you’ll find dingo-
country all the way.
A. T. W.
Asparagus
“Big Billy”: This is a good
time to plant-out asparagus-
seedlings, which are usually
got from nurseries at 12 months
old. The bed needs to be
deeply dug, with well-rotted
stable-manure worked-in ; they
should be built-up where
drainage is poor. Set the
crowns about Bin. below soil-
level, with the top-bud covered
by not more than 2in. of soil,
and space them 18in. apart in
single rows.
Beds of not less than 42in.
wide may be inter-cropped
between rows for two years
after establishment; with small
plants, which do not interfere
with the growth of asparagus,
inter-cropping may be con-
tinued longer.
A good fertiliser is four
parts by weight of blood-and-
bone, one part sulphate-of-
ammonia, three parts super,
and one part sulphate-of-
potash, applied at 2oz. to 4oz.
a square-yard in early spring
or after the last cutting. Where
a heavy dressing of good stable-
or cow-manure has been
worked-in, blood-and-bone at
3oz. to 6oz. a square-yard
makes an adequate additional
fertiliser.
The cutting-period of
asparagus varies. Young beds
may be harmed by cutting too
early. In the second year after
transplanting, if the growing-
season is long and plants are
well-grown—and only then—
cutting can be carried out for
more than two weeks ; in the
fourth year the period shouldn’t
exceed about four weeks.
Thereafter cutting can continue
each year for from six to 10
weeks, according to the season
and the growth and vigor of the
bed.
Mary Washington, Paradise
and Connovers Colossal are
popular varieties.
Memorial to Farrer?
“A.C.T.”: The present
owner of Lambrigg station,
former Liberal M.P. “Jo”
Gullett, who takes good care
of William Farrer’s grave on
the property, would no doubt
support the plea of W. P.
Bluett, of Brindabella (N.S.W.),
for some form of national
memorial to the man Bluett
calls “Australia’s greatest
benefactor.”
In a letter to the “Canberra
Times” Bluett pointed out that
Farrer had now been dead 53
years, but nothing has been
done to impress upon our
10 - million population the
enormous value to our national
economy of this one man’s
indefatigable work.
He suggested a Farrer
Museum as a possible
memorial. There may be other
“Must be spring!”
ideas, but surely some action
should be possible. The gift
of the value of a bushel of
flour by every wheatgrower
might start a fund, and the
Commonwealth and the wheat-
growing States could supple-
ment it.
Clover for Poultry
“Spin”: There would seem
to be a good future for clover-
growing for poultry in W.A.
A comparatively small per-
centage of clover-meal added
to the birds’ ration produces a
rich-colored yolk, possibly not
as brightly orange as is some-
times produced by unlimited
greenfeed but fully bright
enough ; and it’s estimated that
the poultry-industry in W.A.
could use up to 2000 tons of
clover-hay a year and could
afford to pay £l2 a ton for it.
Cartage, freight and hammer-
mill charges will probably
bring the price of the clover-
meal to between £2O and £25
a ton, which should be
acceptable to growers. There’s
nowhere near 2000 tons of
clover-hay available in W.A.
for this purpose, so there’s an
opening for anyone who cares
to take it.
Lucerne
“Spica”: In the Darling
Downs (Q.) R.A.S. Wheat
Competition these last three
years leading entries have
come from crops rotated with
lucerne.
In the 1958 trials a
paddock continually cropped
for 60 years without fertiliser
and then sown with lucerne
for five years, before being
re-cropped with Lawrence,
yielded 45 bushels an acre,
with a protein-content of 14.3
per cent., even after being
grazed.
An adjoining paddock,
under cultivation for 12 years,
after a linseed short-fallow
rotation was sown with
Lawrence, but was withdrawn
from the competition because
of its inferiority.
Experiments at Hermitage
Experimental Station show
that Downs land after five
years’ lucerne-rotation will
produce improved yields for
three years’ cropping, and the
effect seems likely to continue.
Long-range trials have been
started on a Downs property
to discover the best length of
rotation of lucerne - based
pastures and cereal crops.
Experiments prove that results
are best on new cultivations
and gradually lessen under
continual cropping. However,
when old land is changed to
lucerne for a few years and
then re-cropped with wheat,
yields and quality are almost
as high as those of new culti-
vations.
Farm Hints
“Rudy”: Leather belting
should be thoroughly cleaned
and treated with castor-oil at
six-month intervals, to make
it supple, discourage foraging
insects and prevent mildew.
“Sundowner”: Pigs can be
stopped from wilting after
weaning by the use of tallow.
Feed about loz. a day to each
pig in the creep from a week
before weaning, and at wean-
ing gradually increase the
amount to 4oz. daily. Con-
tinue this for six weeks, but
for each increase of loz.
tallow reduce the meal fed by
2oz. Tallow must be free from
salt and is fed by simply
throwing it into the yard.
“Ino”: To get best results
from tomatoes, press through
each stem two small pieces of
copper-wire. The result will
be a plant loaded with fruit
and free of wilt. Plenty of
liquid fowl-manure once a
week is also recommended.
“Declara”: When choosing
a bull for a hot climate select
an animal with a smooth,
glossy coat. It will stand the
heat better than one with a
woolly coat because the latter
generates more interior heat
and this leads to'panting, slob-
bering and general decline in
utility.
“Waxy”: Containers used
to water bees should be
cleaned and refilled regularly
and always placed in a sunny
situation. The water - borne
spores of Nosema disease are
killed-off in about three days
when exposed to sunlight.
“Sinlson”: Harrow - disks
should be sharpened regularly
if they are to make a good
job of chopping -up crop-
residues. Blunt disks cause
trouble and expense owing to
excessive pull on the drawbar.
In a tandem-disk, the rear
disks should run between the
tracks of those in front.
Faulty tracking is apt to leave
channels that may be scoured-
out during heavy rain.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CECIL ARTHUR DUNSHEA late of
Inverell—'TAKE NOTICE that PEARL
MAY DUNSHEA has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1146 of 1959 on the ground
of desertion without jusf cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
the 2nd day of December 1959 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from GEOFFREY SEE, GILLIS
& CO., Solicitors, 28 Martin Place,
Svdney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO CHARLOTTE LONGWORTH late of
Sydney—TAKE NOTICE that JAMES
PRESTON LONGWORTH has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2196 of 1959
on the ground of desertion without cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
and is asking for the exercise of the
Court’s discretion under S. 19 (2) (a)
of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Macquarie Street Sydney
by the 23rd day of November 1959 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from McDONALD AND MC-
DONALD, Solicitors, of 17 Bolton
Street, Newcastle, or JOHN CORCORAN
& CO., Solicitors, of 2 York Street,
Sydney—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JAMES CAMPBELL STEVENS late
of St. George, Western Queensland. —
TAKE NOTICE that KATHLEEN
STEVENS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1590 of 1959 under Queens-
land Law on the ground of desertion
without cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Macquarie
Street Sydney by the 18th day of
November 1959 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MC-
DONALD AND McDONALD, Solicitors,
of 17 Bolton Street, Newcastle, or JOHN
CORCORAN & CO., Solicitors, of 2
York Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JAMES HITCHEN late of No. 20
Waratah Street Arncliffe. —T AK E
NOTICE that THELMA DORIS
HITCHEN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2156 of 1958 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Mint Build-
ing Macquarie Street Sydney by 30th
November 1959 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from F. W.
HALL & CEDRIC CULLEN, Solicitors,
of 77 King Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Culbertson’s Auto Bridge Deal
Sheets for Contract Bridge— 6BBo.
1
T c .• c l .
information bought
Information on the rule against
perpetuities ? ...
Ihe rule against perpetuities is
that an executory interest or an
equitable contingent remainder may
be limited to commence after any
number of existing rights, and a
further period of 21 years, but not
later. The object of the rule is to
prevent a tendency among settlors
to tie-up property in family settle-
ments so as to keep it in the family
and prevent people from disposing
of it for as long as possible. This
was formerly done by creating an
estate-tail—until it was discovered
that an estate-tail could be barred
by common recovery. It is basically
common law, though variants of it
“I wish to apply for the position made vacant by
my dismissal."
—such as the statutes against
accumulations in force in most
British countries —do occur.
» m * •
Application of the law in
forgery ?
Has always been considered a
major crime, but the law relating to
it has been relaxed in recent years—
persons convicted of the crime are
no longer sentenced to be hanged
or transported. It is not possible
to estimate the approximate jail-
sentence since this invariably
depends on the type of the forgery,
the reason for the forgery and the
character of the person doing it,
as well as the possibilities, in the
opinion of the Court, of the forger
having reformed.
• * * *
A few details on pianist Jacob
Lateiner ?
Born in Cuba of Polish parents,
he has lived most of his life in the
U.S.A. He first attracted notice
when he won the Philadelphia
Orchestra Youth contest, and
appeared as soloist with the
orchestra Within four years ot
his debut he had risen to the top
rank of the younger pianists appear-
ing on the U.S. concert-platform.
He has received high praise from
European and Australian as welt
as American critics. He has toured
Australia twice, in 1948 and 1956.
After his first Australian tour he
made his New York debut in a
Carnegie Hall recital, for which he
received high praise,
■» • • •
Brief history of the annual
Writers’ Convention ? When will
this year's convention be held ?
Over three years ago the Quill
Club of Australia, a writers’
organisation with headquarters in
Melbourne, decided to hold a con-
vention at which practising writers
could meet, exchange information
and receive hints from experts in
various branches of writing. After
months of planning and organisa-
tion the convention was held at
Seaford, an outer Bayside suburb
of Melbourne, over the period of a
weekend, and attracted such a large
attendance and was so' successful
that the club decided to make it an
annual affair. To date, three con-
ventions have been conducted, and
the fourth will be held at Seaford
on October 24 and 25, 1959.
Bernard Cronin, founder of the
club, and a distinguished Austra-
lian author, will formally open
the convention; there will be talks
on selected topics of interest to
writers, discussion-groups and a
short-story competition open to all
attending, whether club-members
or not.
The Quill Club this year cele-
brated the completion of 21 years
of continuous activity. It aims to
assist the practising author and
provide opportunities for mutual
help and the interchange of ideas,
and the conventions have greatly
stimulated its activities. For further
information write to the hon.
organiser, James Preston, 4 Reserve
Road, Beaumaris, S.lO, Vic.
Brief Answers
R.F.: There is no need for
photographs to go through an
agency. Send them direct, with the
article, to the magazine. Be sure
to enclose a self-addressed envelope
with a stamp for possible return.
. ...K.M.: Consultation with the
Oxford and Webster’s dictionaries,
as well as Roget’s Thesaurus, failed
to discover any one word to fit the
whole phrase....J.H.: (1) Bill
Squires was born in 1879, and had
four fights with Bill Lang, two in
1909 and one each in 1910 and
1911. Lang won all four fights by
knock-out. You would therefore
be right in your assumption. (2)
No information. (3) Ron Richards
won three Australian titles, not
four—middle, light-heavyweight and
heavyweight... .N.R.: The records
are strangely silent on this par-
ticular point; a long search reveals
no date for N.S.W. The very last
coach of the company was taken
off the Yeulba-Surat run in
Queensland in 1924, and is now
in the Queensland Museum. It
was probably ousted by the service-
car rather than the railway....
W.R.: The Admella, which was
shipwrecked on August 6, 1859
(reference to it appeared on the
“Society” pages, B. 19/8/’59),' was
skippered by Captain Hugh
McEwan (or McEwen —it is given
both ways), described as an experi-
enced seaman... .J.H.: (1) For
invalid-pensions age doesn’t matter,
but means come into it. (2) The fact
that a person draws a particular
type of pension in no way dis-
qualifies him from voting. (3)
A pensioner may have property
apart from his home and personal
effects to the value of £227 10s.
and receive a full pension subject
to any deduction on account of
income. A pensioner may have
other income amounting to £182 a
year after which he draws a
reduced pension... .H.F.: Can find
no reference to Magnetic Lake;
however, perhaps you have con-
fused it with Magnetic Springs, a
small village in Union County,
Ohio (U.S.A.); the water of the
springs is claimed to have a
peculiar magnetic quality, and the
place used to be popular as a
health - resort... .E.S.W.: English
piano - teacher Tobias Matthay
(1858-1945) was born in London,
and founded the Matthay school
in 1900. He was a professor of
piano at the Royal Academy of
Music. His system is founded on
observation of the operation of
both physical and psychological
laws, and is described in The Art
of Touch (1903). Some of his
famous pupils are Harriet Cohen,
Myra Hess, Irene Scharrer, York
Bowen and Frank Hutchens
P.B.: Your question was answered
in B. 22/7/’59, halfway through
the “Brief Answers” section.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they• may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
R. 8.: Nothing very new about
it. Try for a fresher approach.
....F.M.: The shrimp-boats floated
away into the sunset H.H.:
Ties itself up in circles... .8.C.:
One or two neat character-sketches,
but little else... .1.V.: If you altered
the ending—make things finish
happily—and shortened it you’d
probably have something
L.J.P.: Not enough general reader-
interest. .. .A.S.: There were
moments —particularly around the
Nullarbor —when the style seemed
less prosaic and the observation
consequently sharper... .E.W.: One
or two fresh touches... .E.Y.:
None of them sounds very real.
M.G.: Like a flamingo, it
stands on one 1eg....T.N.: The
nurses are nice... .S.P.: The big
tough gangster has been deported.
R.L.: So have the two sinister
foreigners... . S.G.S.: Nothing new
in the idea about having a murder
committed while the radiogram is
turned-up to shrieking-volume....
N. : Condense it... .P.D.A.: The
whirlybird crashed into the basket.
T.R.G.: Off-beat rhyming....
O. : Rather too short and lacking
in proper development.


THE HOLLIDAYS
“I'd like to get him down to our local dart club!”
New Recordings.
“Pierrot Lunaire”
Inspired by the Australian
first performance of this work
in Sydney a couple of weeks
ago, one went along to a
record-shop to see if they had
it on record. Not only did they
have it —an English Argo disk,
RG 54 —but they most kindly
allowed one to sit in a sound-
proof room and listen to it.
There, with a fan whirring
over the doorway, one observed
again Schoenberg’s terrific
mixture of modern harmony
and drama. It is a setting of
21 verses by the Belgian poet
. Albert Giraud, scored for solo
voice and (virtuoso) orchestra,
and Schoenberg radically re-
casts the soloist’s role. Gener-
ally a soloist is treated as a
separate instrument, but here,
in these 21 lush, occasionally
extravagant poems, the soloist
is part of the whole ensemble.
The verses are delivered in an
extended monotone, rising to
shrieks in some places; and
the orchestra, indissolubly
interwoven with the soloist,
“paints” the text.
It is a novel idea, and the
total effect —of variety, of
richness of scoring and brilliant
transmutations (as in “Valse
de Chopin,” still a waltz, but
veneered with atonalism) —is
extremely fresh. Perhaps, in
this version, Ethel Semser
(soloist) may strike those who
heard Marilyn Richardson in
the same role in the Sydney
performance as a little cool;
but probably that can be
explained on the grounds of
temperament.
The orchestral playing is, as
far as one is able to observe,
accurate, and is most certainly
well balanced: at all times the
soloist’s tone comes from the
“front” of the listening-area.
Players are: Lionel Bentley
(violin); Gwynne Edwards
(viola); Willem de Mont
(’cello); Edward Walker
(flute); Sidney Fell (clarinet);
Walter Lear (bass-clarinet),
and Wilfrid Parry (piano).
Conductor Rene Leibowitz
provides an excellent jacket-
note.
❖ * *
Kostelanetz
In “A Kostelanetz Pro-
gramme” (Coronet KLL 598)
A. K. and his orchestra have
put together a varied little
orchestral concert in minia-
ture. A delicate rendering of
Debussy’s “Clair de Lune” is
followed by a bracket of
waltzes from “The Count of
Luxembourg,” which turn back
the calendar half-a-century to
the days when Franz Lehar
was taking-over the dancing
feet of Vienna from the
Strausses. Ravel’s “Lament for
a Dead Princess,” hauntingly
sad, and Fibich's “Poeme” —
the simple waltz which was
adapted into “My Moonlight
Madonna” —complete the first
side of the disk.
Side two includes two of
Edward MacDowell’s dainty
flower-pieces—“To a Water
Lily” and “To a Wild Rose”
—and Drigo’s popular
“Serenade.” If the Lehar
waltzes are evocative of old
Vienna, memories of a
grimmer kind are stirred by
Richard Addinsell’s “Warsaw
Concerto,” written for the
soundtrack of a British film
dealing with the fall of Warsaw
in 1939 and intended as a
tribute to the defenders of the
Polish capital.
❖ *l*
Shuffle and Deal
It’s funny what happens
with these pop.-singers and
their pop. tunes. Take this
Guy Mitchell. He makes a
record—“ Singing the Blues,”
say—and it sells well, so he
makes another and another
and so on, and they all sell
well, and he gets a color named
after him, and then they make
an 1.-p. of a dozen of his pops.,
and that sells like nobody’s
business, and he’s a best-seller*
Or take Johnny Ray, who
gives “Cry” and rips shirts,
coats and the welkin and keeps
on giving and ripping and
selling till he’s on the top step
of the selling-ladder, too, and
his 1.-p.s are on the rack of
every self-respecting pop.-tune
fan this side of the Black
Stump.
Or, if you prefer '’em, take
Mitch Miller and his Gang,
whose speciality is making old
songs sound new ; or the Four
Lads, who follow the same
line rather harmoniously (with
the occasional assistance of a
lass). Take, for that matter,
Vic Damone, Percy Faith,
Tony Bennett, Johnny Mathis
or Frankie Laine. Or, if it’s
dolls you want, take Doris
Day, Jo Stafford or Rosemary
Clooney, nice lines all.
These 12 guys and dolls
have, according to those who
should know, dug the grooves
for a dozen of “the best-
selling records of all time”—
or at least of the years between
1951 and 1957. One gathers
that if all the disks they’ve sold
were piled one on top of
another in a neat but lofty
heap Ed. Hillary would have to
use oxygen-equipment to climb
to the top, and if all their
sound-tracks were unwound
and the kinks straightened out
they’d reach slightly beyond
the moon.
And what happens after all
this? Well, along comes
Coronet and picks out the top
of each top, shuffles the pack
and there you have “Hall of
Fame Hits” (KLP 808).
J. B.
+2*
Drums
“Ten Thousand Drums,”
sung by Carl Smith on
Coronet KS-327 (45 r.p.m.), is
bright but not light, since
drums beat from'beginning to
end. On the reverse side
Smith sings “The Tall, Tall
Gentleman,” a pleasantly
straightforward number dotted
with banjo and brush-drums.
Both of these are potential top
hits.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
It did not take long for Princess
Alexandra to charm this city with her
poise, simplicity and unconventional
manner. Those on the platform at
Spencer Street to see her arrive in the
Royal train were the first to glimpse how
unconventional she can be. When Sir
Dallas Brooks —who with Lady Brooks,
the Premier and Mrs. Bolte, had
welcomed her —was escorting her to her
car he turned to speak to the Royal
visitor and saw her some 10 yards away
talking to Squadron-Leader Hicks, whom
she had recognised as conductor of the
R.A.A.F. band at the ball in Canberra.
This breaking-away from tradition was
again noticed when, arriving at the Exhi-
bition Building for the State reception,
H.R.H. got out of her car on the offside
so that the waiting crowds could see
her. That done, she sauntered round the
back of the car to be welcomed by the
Premier and Mrs. Bolte, Chief Secretary
Arthur Rylah and Mrs. Rylah, and to
receive a bouquet from Annabel Rylah.
Again she left the official party to speak
to a young woman in a wheel-chair.
Then she rejoined her host and hostess
and began her walk through the waiting
guests to the dais.
This was a State reception with a
difference, for of the 6000 guests present,
more than half were young people.
Instead of politicians and their wives, 38
representaive young people were pre-
sented, among them a nurse, a Girl Guide,
Olympic swimmer Marjorie McQuade
and Mrs. Graeme Fair (formerly Joy
Donoghue, who has played in the State
tennis-team). The Princess sat in a
mahogany and claret-velvet chair on the
dais, and behind her was a backdrop of
sea-blue silk caught with gilded Tudor-
roses." Also on the dais were four large
Grecian urns filled with waratahs, lilies,
gladioli, gilded leaves and trails of ivory
leaves. In front of the dais was a lawn
of English grass with borders of
cinerarias and cyclamens. At the edge
of the lawn was a giant-sized “drum”
forming a circular stage.
Here the Princess, who saw a
mannequin-parade of Australian wool-
fashions and some exhibition dancing,
■wore a lovely gown v of white silk-organza
patterned with a large kingfisher-blue
coin-spot. It had an overskirt drawn
to one side from the front and cascading
into fullness at the back of the skirt.
The bodice was low-cut into a V and had
narrow, square shoulder-straps. Her slim
pointed-toe shoes were in kingfisher-blue
satin. She wore a diamond-and-pearl
tiara and a diamond-and-pearl necklace,
diamond earrings and diamond bracelets
and her family Orders. Mrs. Bolte chose
a gown of porcelain-blue ribbon-lace
heavily embroidered all over with sequins
and pearls in a paler shade of blue. Cut
on sheath-lines, the bodice had an off-
shoulder neckline. The Lady Mayoress,
Mrs. Bernard Evans, chose a gold-toned
lace gown with a bouffant skirt.
Lady Clarke’s royal-blue satins were
embroidered with silver ; Mrs. Jim
Morrison (Terang) chose a bouffant frock
of pale-blue tulle trimmed with toning-
blue satin ; Mrs. Neville Palmer’s formal
gown was of coral-pink satin with a
jewelled bodice. After supper Princess
Alexandra danced through three foxtrot
numbers with the Premier. At this
reception-with-a-difference many guests
went to TV-screens to watch the Royal
progress. The television-cameras fol-
lowed her to the dais and recorded the
entire proceedings.
Lady Brooks, wife of the Governor,
Sir Dallas Brooks, returned from England,
where she had been on a short visit to
her mother, Mrs. Turner Laing, in time
to supervise arrangements for the enter-
taining of Princess Alexandra at Govern-
ment House, where the Princess has
occupied the lovely suite the Queen
Mother used. Always gracious and
charming, the Governor's lady takes a
keen interest in many of the city’s wel-
fare-organisations, none more so than in
the work being done for spastic and
crippled children. The Governor and
Lady Brooks have one daughter, Mrs.
Robin Byrne, and two grandchildren,
Christopher and Jennifer. Photo by
John Warlow.
When she attended the Royal Agri-
cultural Show Princess Alexandra was
welcomed by the president of the R.A.S.
of Victoria, Judge Mitchell, and Mrs.
Mitchell. Her Royal Highness, who made
her short speech in a deep, perfectly-
modulated and -controlled voice, wore
a balloon-skirted frock in poinsettia-red,
a hip-length matching-cape caught at the
back of the waist, a mink scarf and a
turban cloche in matching-red velvet.
An enthusiastic horsewoman, the Prin-
cess watched some of Victoria’s leading
equestriennes lead the Parade. These
entrants for the coveted Garryowen
trophy, impeccably groomed, were led
into the arena by Mrs. G. B. S. Falkiner,
of Haddon Rig, Warren (N.S.W.),
mounted on Symphony, champion Gallo-
way mare at this year’s Show. The
Prime Minister and Dame Pattie Menzies
were in the official party, as were the
Premier and Mrs. Bolte, the Lord Mayor
and Lady Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs.
Bernard Evans), and the three vice-
presidents of the R.A.S., Dr. Frank
Stephens (with Mrs. Stephens), George
Wilson (with Mrs. Wilson) and Mrs.
John Bott.
☆ ☆ ☆
Salient feature of the decorations at
the Battle of Britain dinner-ball at St.
Kilda Palais was an illuminated replica
of the Battle of Britain window in West-
minster Abbey. There were also models
of Spitfires, Sabres and Jindivicks, flags,
the R.A.A.F. crest and massed blue
balloons. The function was organised
by the R.A.A.F. Women’s Association,
whose Federal president, Mrs. E. C.
Wackett, with her husband, Air-Vice-
Marshal Wackett, received the vice-
regal party. A graceful full-skirted
gown of ice-blue satin was worn by
Lady Brooks. Mrs. Wackett’s gown was
of midnight-blue satin. In the official
party were Minister for Air Osborne
and his wife; the Lord Mayor and
Lady Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs. Bernard
Evans) —she wearing deep-cream satin
faintly etched in a black-leaf design;
Sir Frederick and Lady Thomas (her
lovely strapless gown of white satin
having an overskirt finished with coral-
pink satin); Air-Vice-Marshal and Mrs.
A. L. Walters (her choice white pure-
silk patterned in pale-blue flowers); Sir
Lawrence and Lady Wackett (they cele-
brated their ruby-wedding next day);
the Burmese Air Attache, Group-Capt.
S. Schisho, and his wife and Air-Vice-
Marshal and Mrs. H. G. Acton.
Other guests were Mrs. B. Chadwick
(her gown was of deep-green-and-black
brocade), Air-Vice-Marshal and Mrs.
E. A. Daley, and Wing-Commander and
Mrs. R. D. Austin. The hon. secretary
for the ball (which will assist the funds
of the association’s educational patriotic
fund) was Mrs. E. Tuck. Hon. ticket-
secretary was Mrs. W. D. Richmond.
Mrs. W. Cameron was hon. treasurer.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Town and Country Ball organised
by a group of young people to assist
the funds of the Ramsay Mailer Oppor-
tunity Club drew 300 to the newly-
decorated Ormond Hall. Each small
table was covered with a scarlet cloth
and centred with silver candelabras
bearing lighted red candles. The chair-
man of the ball-committee, Angela Rau,
welcomed Patricia Heaton (she is
assistant Lady-in-Waiting to Princess
Alexandra) and two other members of
the Royal staff, Wing-Commander Kelly
and Group-Captain James Stack.


SYDNEY
There was a natural sense of flatness
after the departure of Princess Alexandra,
but it dispersed in a busy week, in which
Battle of Britain celebrations were a
highlight. (The Air Force Ball, of course,
was held the week before at the Troca-
dero, and inherited the decorations left
from the Golden Ball the night before.
Very appropriate, too, all those thous-
ands of golden laurel-leaves!)
☆ ☆ ☆
The 11th annual reunion of the Aus-
tralian Army Medical Women’s Service
brought together former members from
near and far, 200-strong, and they had
a wonderful time catching-up on news
and renewing old friendships. Bravely
supporting each other were the only two
men present —Sir John Northcott and
Dr. Geoffrey Mutton. Organiser of the
party was Mrs. Joyce Snelling (she
thoroughly deserved all the compliments
she got for her good job). Among those
who attended it were Miss E. Pert; Miss
Sheila Armstrong ; Mrs. Donald Coburn ;
Mrs. Alan Tarrant and Mrs. Robert
Milburn.
V v V
Champagne Cha-cha’s and Flaming
Marne’s were cocktails sampled by guests
at the party given by the Dolls and Guys
Committee of the N.S.W. Society for
Crippled Children at the Arthur Murray
studios, when Shirl Conway, star of
“Auntie Marne,” was guest-of-honor.
The enthusiastic committee, headed by
Peter Timbrell, with Marilyn Dykes the
hon. secretary, has among its members
Helen Langtree, Patria Cooke and
Stephen Pasch. Proceeds of the party
added more than £7O to the cause ; it
was one of the special functions of the
“Forget Me Not” appeal week, which was
launched by the Lord Mayor, Alderman
Jensen.
V V V
Countess De La Warr, who is visiting
Sydney with her husband, the ninth Earl,
is an executive of Young Farmers’ clubs
in England, and knows plenty about
raising beef-cattle and growing tobacco ;
she gained her experience on their
property in Rhodesia. When in London,
their home is in a mews, and weekends
are spent as often as possible at Buck-
hurst Estate in Sussex, where they raise
Jersey cattle. The Countess and her
husband, who is chairman of the Royal
Commonwealth Society, have a busy
programme ahead meeting fellow-
members, and began with an evening
reception at the rooms of the N.S.W.
branch of the society on Monday night.
While in Sydney they are guests of Sir
Eric and Lady Woodward at Govern-
ment House.
☆ ☆
“El Grito!” (“Freedom!”) was the
toast at Prince’s on September 16,
when the Consul for Mexico and Mrs.
E. K. Mansfield gave a party in honor
of the 138th anniversary of Mexico’s
National Day. To welcome their 250
guests, Mrs. Mansfield chose a chiffon
dress in muted shades of leaf-greerf and
grey. U.S. Consul-General and Mrs.
Frank Waring, and Netherlands Consul-
General Dr. Theodore P. Bergsma were
there; so were Mr. and Mrs. Joseph
Dougherty and Melbourne visitors Mr.
and Mrs. Lionel Cross. A first-hand
account of the way the anniversary is
celebrated in their home-town, Mexico
City, came from Mrs. Maurice Wales,
there with her husband and their 15-
year-old daughter Sonia. The family has
lived in Sydney only five years. The
dress Mrs. Waks wore came from her
mother in Mexico, and was of hand-
embroidered cotton, on which sequins
in an intricate pattern had been sewn
by hand. In a gay group were Mrs. C.
Martin ; Sydney University Vice-
Chancellor S. H. Roberts and Mrs.
Roberts; Mr. and Mrs. J. C.
Mcßoberts ; and Mr. Justice Mitchell
and Mrs. Mitchell.
Diana Rose is the only daughter of
Mr. L. S. Snider, M.L.C., and Mrs.
Snider, of Point Piper, and her engage-
ment to Captain Alex Orr, only son of
Mr. and Mrs. J. M. Orr, of Warwick
( Q .), was announced recently. Miss
Snider is private-secretary to Lady
Woodward, and her fiance the personal-
assistant to the G.O.C. Eastern Area,
Lieut.-General R. G. Pollard. Photo by
John Hearder.
You never know what you will hear
at parties! Conversation may be a lost
art, as some people bemoan, but it’s
amazing the odds-and-ends of fascinating
data one can pick up amidst the gay
and light-hearted chatter. For example,
there is that ancient Sydney tram
(“second-oldest in Australia”), honorably
retired to a garden-setting at the home
of Mrs. C. Martin, whose late husband
was a former N.S.W. Attorney-General.
When in its heyday, that tram was used
for the transportation of late-homing
M.L.A.s. Nowadays members of histori-
cal societies find their way to Mrs.
Martin’s home to gaze at it.
Gone are the days when details of
fashion-trends were known only to a
select few. With numerous fashion-shows
to provide entertainment (and help along
good causes), nobody can plead ignorance
as excuse for not being up to the latest
neckline and down to the right skirt-
length. (Local taste seems to have
settled for this as b.k. —about 2in. below
the knee to be more explicit.)
Among the many attractive invitations
to viewings comes one from Scots
College Parents’ and Friends’ Associa-
tion, to be held in Anderson Hall at the
school on September 30. The parade is
arranged by Miss Barbara Martin to
include Catalina sportswear and furs by
Cornelius. Hon. secretary is Mrs.
Blanche Ball (FM 1412), assisted by Mrs.
Gwen Cooper (FX 5256). and tickets for
the afternoon parade are 15s.
☆ ☆ ☆
To aid crippled children was the
fashion show organised at Usher’s by
Mrs. Gregory Kater and her Hansel
and Gretel committee, who are produc-
ing Humperdinck’s fairytale opera at
the Conservatorium on October 1, 2 and
3. There is something about early-morn-
ing entertainment to induce a guilty and
thoroughly enjoyable feeling (a decade
ago it would have been unthinkable to
the slaves of household routine). The
mood was certainly pandered to by the
collection supplied for the occasion by
Courtnay’s ; it included outfits invisibly
marked “for Randwick and Fleming-
ton,” pure-silks and chiffons for parties,
and cottons for casual wear. Equally
chosen for charm and beguilement was
millinery by Madame Therese. Mr. A.
Allan left his Edgecliff salon to help
things along and attended to the hairdos
of the models, and also gave the large
audience details of the latest line. All
in all, a very successful combination!
Among the groups around the tables
were Mrs. A. J. Swirles, with Mrs.
Russell Sinclair; Mrs. Robert Dixson
and Miss Garside, of the Crippled
Children’s Society. Mrs. Swirles, who
shares with her husband a deep and
active interest in the society, is busy
planning for their trip overseas early
next year. This time they intend travel-
ling by plane, and in the seven months
of their tour will visit the U.K., the
Continent and the U.S.
☆ ☆ ☆
Delegates from inter-State and country
districts will attend the Federal confer-
ence of Catholic Women, to be officially
opened by Cardinal Gilroy, R.C. Arch-
bishop of Sydney, at a concert at the
Conservatorium on Tuesday, September
29, at 7.45 p.m. Conference-sessions
begin on September 28 at Legion House,
161 Castlereagh Street. Included on the
agenda is a paper from Tasmania on the
importance of adult education for women
and an address by Sister M. St. Hugh
on problems of the home-front. Enter-
tainment of wide variety has been
organised for visitors, and a mayoral
reception, a garden-party at the Cardinal’s
palace and a debutante-ball will take
place during the week.


persuaded Rex Harrison to play
Guinness:—
T. S. Eliot saw the London com-
pany for the first time at rehearsal.
After Rex Harrison, who was, of
course, already then a very famous
international star, had played his
first scene and gone off, Eliot turned
to me and said:
“That young fellow’s very good.
Tell me, where did you find him?”
Sherek is a bit cagey about “The
Elder Statesman,” which he persuaded
Eliot to alter considerably. Its London
first-night was “a splendid affair,” etc.;
probably it was too close to his book
for any further news.
The life that prepared Henry Sherek
for putting Eliot on the commercial
stage was not one of which T. S. Eliot
might have entirely approved. Son of
a London theatrical agent, he followed
a Chariot revue which included
Gertrude Lawrence, Jack Buchanan,
Beatrice Lillie “and a host of beauti-
ful English' girls” across to America
in 1923; lived around, working in a
theatrical agency, toured America as
assistant stage-manager to a revue;
sent home to his father for money;
was taken into his father’s business;
and as a scourer of the U.S. for talent,
brought Jack Benny to the London
Palladium where he failed, and made
stars of Burns and Allen in England
before they came to the top in
America; handled Madeleine Carroll
and Simone Simon before Hollywood;
got a part for Laurence Olivier when
British producers said he didn’t photo-
graph well; tried to get Lindbergh, at
the Paris end of his Atlantic flight, to
appear in the Ziegfeld Follies in New
York; produced non-stop variety, from
2 p.m. until 11 p.m., at the London
Pavilion, and managed the supply of
music and entertainment to big pubs.
One of his first ventures into produc-
ing was taking John Drink water to
Rome to translate a play called
“Napoleon,” by Mussolini, which
failed —whereupon Sherek was left try-
ing to get repayment from Mussolini
of £262 he had forgotten to deduct
from a 5000-dollar advance on
royalties.
He made the English production
of “Idiot’s Delight,” and after World
War II had a big success with Robert
Morley in “Edward, My Son.” He has
an amusing account of his duel with
'Shaw over the revival of “You Never
Can Tell”; and a much more amusing
story of a dinner at the Ritz to Margaret
Lockwood, who wanted to appear in
“Pygmalion.” After arranging the
dinner he found that the play couldn’t
run long enough before the panto-
mimes set in, and this having been
explained to Miss Lockwood, she
turned to him, “her large eyes flash-
ing”:—
“What’s this? What’s this? No
Eliza? Then what are we sitting
here for? We’re wasting our time!”
The matter having come up again,
he found that Gertrude Lawrence had
wheedled a two-year option on
“Pygmalion” out of Bernard Shaw. He
rang Miss Lockwood up to tell her: —
“Then I don’t have to have dinner
with you this evening,” she said
briskly.
The last part of the book deals with
his TV-productions for the 8.8. C. and
T. S. Eliot’s happy married life:—
I saw that this astounding man
had yet another attribute of great-
ness. He is a brilliant carver of
meats. A succulent shoulder of
lamb appeared, which he took great
care to carve rhythmically in iambic
pentameter—five stresses to each
slice.
Australian Play Scripts
A collection of scripts of unpublished
plays by Australians is being made for
VARIOUS VERSE
THE GIRL
But yes, to die. Yes, yes, there will be time ;
there’ll be a time —not now. You’ll find that I’m
not one to die while I am loved and lamI —
am loved ? You hear, my life’s a perfect rhyme.
How die ?
The pointed word, the blending chord, the phrase .
that’s answered, echoed, understood—it stays.
Eternity’s a minute in eternity.
The minute thing we have survives the days,
eternally.
Said the girl,
her faith each captured thought.
But yes, to live. Yes, yes. There will be time ;
there’s fifty years without you. There’s the chim-
ing eight-day clock I’ll wind, the thoughts I’ll sieve
until all’s clear as bone and stone and rhyme.
How live
till time when time remembered is untrue
and I imagine I imagined you ?
Eternity’s remembering eternally
the minute thing you lost before you knew
eternity.
Said the girl,
her faith in capture caught.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.
FULL MOON
At each month’s soiree well-dressed Pleiades —
Twelve hundred times the century’s press reports it.
Moon’s glazed light doals himself a perfect hand; while
Moon’s rondure bares her ace of breast, at ball-brave
To feed what’s born with unimammic milk.
Tonight’s the night. Big silver news has hit
Rome and Snake Gully. Lookee ! Trajan’s Arch
Drips argentine ; moll Colosseum’s sequined :
In solid’s lingua franca, unvowelled shadows,
Fern-frond tells simple truth of self to fern-frond ;
Tree’s tall lays tallness flat across bridged stream.
Poor Eisenhower must bear to face the one
And poor Khrushchev must bear to face the one
Man in the Moon. And neither met him yet.
TASMANIA.
ERIC GALE SCOTT.
INDIAN SUMMER
Man that is born of a woman is of a few days and full of trouble.
Lo, he cometh forth like a flower, and is cut down . . .
Holy Bible.
He looked, and was pleased with what he saw.
The trees were alive with the fighting life of green,
and the corn stood high and rich
against the pastures, lush with sudden growth,
and the dugs of his mare hung heavily
with the promise of life.
The air was sweet with scent of flowering stream,
and rich soil, black and damp,
and the earth crunched beneath the boot.
The first arrow hit him in the throat,
The second tore into the flesh below the left lung
and snapped, as he stumbled to the ground,
and his body twitched 'like a cut worm. They burnt
the maize; rose a mountain of red against the evening sky,
and that night, the mare ate of forest grass.
The air was rank with tart smoke
and the stench of ash-stained pine,
and the earth crunched beneath the mocassined feet.
W.A.
P. W. JEFFERY.


the Fryer Memorial Library (an all-
Australian library) at the University
of Queensland.
Playwrights are invited to send
scripts to me at the University English
Department, St. Lucia, Brisbane, for
consideration and possible inclusion in
the Fryer collection. Scripts sent will,
if they warrant inclusion, be copied
and returned without delay to the
authors.
The intention is to preserve for the
record any play that has merit of any
kind, and not to exclude plays because
they are not meritorious on every
count. Authors are therefore urged to
submit their scripts without diffidence,
and are assured that no improper use,
by infringement of rights or unauthor-
ised publicity, will be made of these.
The library collection will be
properly indexed and catalogued and
be available to research students and
others concerned with the development
of Australian drama.
Eunice Hanger.
Trotsky
Trotsky’s Diary in Exile, 1935
(Faber) covers only his last months in
France and his first months in Norway.
The entries are irregular, some are
only newspaper-clippings pasted in,
and many are too obscure or topical
to be read today without frequent
reference to the excellent notes at the
back. Thus it doesn’t give much idea
of the historical stature of the man
who, during the civil war, rallied and
steeled the Red Army when it seemed
certain to go under to the Whites and
even Lenin was discouraged, nor of
the intellectual range and force of the
man who wrote “Literature and Revo-
lution” and the “History of the
Russian Revolution.” Nevertheless it
is in some ways an absorbing human
document.
For the greater part of it Trotsky and
his wife are living alone and incog-
nito —under strict orders from the
French authorities—in an alpine
village near Grenoble. Trotsky, the
foreword tells us, was at this time
directing his Fourth International
through its early stages, editing and
writing most of his Russian-language
“Bulletin of the Opposition” and
working on his biography of Lenin.
These activities, however, seldom show
in the diary, which is a sort of over-
flow from them. Most of the early
entries are astringent analyses of the
political situation in France, thrusts
at Stalin and fascinating glimpses of
Lenin, Kamenev. Zinoviev and others
of the original Bolsheviks. Here it is
possible to see Trotsky testing his
theories against events, developing the
germs of political and literary ideas and
trying to discover the historical logic of
his own strange fate. But few of them
are really conclusive.
It is in the more personal entries—
the occasional sharp little sketches of
life in the village, the observations of
his wife, the remarks about the music
they listen to on the radio, the news-
papers and books he is reading, and
especially in the news he gets from
Russia—that the real interest for the
present-day reader lies.
Stalin had by this time begun to
persecute everyone in Russia who had
been at all closely associated with
Trotsky—his family, including even
his first wife, and many of his old
secretaries and political associates were
exiled or imprisoned or hounded to
suicide. Now his son Sergey, an
engineer with no political connections,
disappears, and Trotsky gradually
learns that he is in prison on a charge
of “poisoning the workers.” The
Trotskys know only too well what that
could mean. On top of this comes the
news that they must leave France, the
complicated farce over visas and per-
mission to stay in Norway, and the
illnesses that periodically overtook
them both.
Trotsky describes all this with
remarkable detachment, clarity and
even flashes of humor. The only time
his famous, almost inhuman personal
aloofness breaks down is when he
writes about his wife —her courage,
her loyalty, her sustaining calmness
and dignity. These passages are
movingly simple and sincere.
A publisher’s foreword and a preface
by Max Shachtman, who discovered
the diary among Trotsky’s papers in
Mexico, give a clear background to
the diary, and Elena Zarudnaya’s
translation is readably crisp and
pointed.
Reviewed Briefly
The Dawn is My Brother: Richard
Calvert Williamson (Faber). A first
book—the author can’t be more than
25—and a change from the outpour-
ings of the “angry young men.” It’s
the autobiography of a boy who grew-
up in the English countryside and has
the knack of recording his observations
on natural history and ordinary hap-
penings like a first duck-shoot with
skill and humor. Later he had a tour
of National Service with the R.A.F. in
the Middle East and his sketches of the
terrain, inhabitants and wild life of
Egypt, Iraq, Jordan and Cyprus make
equally bright reading. A few small
errors have been allowed to slip-in ;
“dannet-wire,” “Scots Guard” and
“deep-seat kitbag” may make old
soldiers smile, but their smiles will be
indulgent because the author writes
with truth about the dust and flies, and
in such a pleasant, unaffected way.
* * * *
Handel’s “Messiah”: edited by
Watkins Shaw (Novello). Based on
autograph sources, this edition pro-
vides the performer with an authori-
tative answer to the many spurious
extant editions. The accompaniment
is set on two staves, thus being useful
not only for the organist but the
rehearsal pianist; certain textural addi-
tions, for long regarded as essential,
have most happily been omitted
(Prout’s additional accompaniments,
for instance). At all times Handel’s
string-parts are printed in full-size
notes and the continue build-up in
small notes. Shaw follows the line of
thought that Handel’s wishes should
be respected; in talking about
“Messiah” that’s really something.
* * * *
Elizabeth of the German Garden:
Leslie de Charms (Heinemann). Built
up from copious journals, letters and
papers, this biography is both objec-
tive and intimate and is to be recom-
mended to the many thousands who
over the first half of this century read
a new book by “Elizabeth” every year
and felt that they knew her personally.
Born Mary Anne Beauchamp in
Sydney (her mother was a Lassater of
the retailing family) she married Count
von Amim Schlagenthin in 1891 and
published her first book in 1898. Her
last book was written in 1939 and in
the intervening years she met most of
the famous literary figures in Europe
(including H. G. Wells, who fell in
love with her) and her cousin
Katherine Mansfield. Her marriage to
Lord Russell, brother of philosopher
Bertrand Russell, was a disaster, but
her spirit remained ebullient to the
end and her journals reflect this essen-
tial quality.
* * * •
Monet, with an introduction and
notes by Adrian Stokes; Poussin, with
an introduction and notes by R. H.
Wilenski (Faber Gallery). Two more
in the series, both handsomely pro-
duced and illustrated with full-color
plates. Wilenski is interesting on
Poussin’s use of light, which almost
invariably springs from the left-hand
side of the picture. But Stokes on
Monet goes into far more technical
detail and, at least by implication,
points to the abstract values which, of
course, are always present in a realistic
painting. In “Poplars by the River
Epte,” for instance, Monet sought “to
introduce a dominant, though hidden,
rectangularity by deciding on an
entirely square canvas.”


66
99
i
m
Published by
m
21-
per single
copy
A review of
ECONOMIC, MARKET
and
FINANCIAL CONDITIONS,
COMPANY ACCOUNTS
and
OIL AND MINING ACTIVITIES
22/6
a year,
post free
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” gives the most complete and comprehensive
analysis of company accounts, in addition to its mining comments and
economic forecasts.
It is thoroughly indexed on a continuous basis, and the pages are stitched
together for permanent reference.
Facilities are available for binding each twelve issues on an annual basis.
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly,"
BOX 2521, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
