

The Bulletin
The British Pound— page 40
Wednesday, January 21, 1959
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Ilegistered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
"Coming, Sweetie!"


WRITE FOR
PROFIT!
If YOU have the urge to write, you «an
learn to write Successful Stories, Articles,
Written Sketches, Radio Talks, Pars, Verse,
etc. There is a large, and constant demand
for well-written work.
STOTT’S Training, will provide yon with the
assistance and knowledge of highly-qualified and
experienced Instructors.
Mrs. J. Penna gained. £7O far Short Stories
sold while still engaged on her Course;
Mrs. L King was paid £2l for her sth story.
What these students have done, YOU inn
do. If you would like information about
our Courses in Story Writing, Freelance
Journalism, etc., post the Coupon today.
i Stotts Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St.. Adelaide; 254 Murray St.. Perth.
---- CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Course in
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE (S.B, 259)
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOKS BOUGHT
We visit you in the City and Suburbs
Immediate Cash Payment
Valuations made for Probate
BW 7874
(After Hours JY liai)
BERKELOUW
114 King: Street, (Between Pitt and
Castlereagrh Streets), Sydney.
The Red Page
FAWCETT AGAIN
Brian Fawcett’s Ruins in the Sky
(Hutchinson) is partly an autobio-
graphy about his days as a railway-
engineer in South America, partly a
sequel to his best-selling “Exploration
Fawcett,” that fascinating book he
edited a year or two ago about his
father’s disappearance in the Brazilian
jungle in 1925.
The autobiography is remarkably
good. It might be expected that the
son of so famous a father might not
have anything particularly interesting
to say about his own life, but, dashing
down the Andes in crazy Peruvian
railcars, quarrelling with his bosses,
hob-nobbing with toughs who wore
guns at their hips and drank whisky by
the gallon, coping with mobs of armed
Indian strikers or speeding on a loco-
motive engine to escape them in the
style of a frontier-film, Fawcett has
lived quite adventurously enough him-
self to make a most vigorous auto-
biography; and one which, since the
jungle has been written about a great
deal, and the railways very little, breaks
comparatively new ground: —
The first thing to do was to see if
Huaman and Vilches were all right,
for it’s no joke to be pinned against
a hot boiler with steam from smashed
water-gauge columns and fractured
pipes playing about one’s person.
Meanwhile from the train came a
hullabaloo of shrieks and yells, oaths
and prayers, and every coach
window vomited people and pack-
ages .... The cause of the accident
came to light at the subsequent
investigation. A peon, fired from the
Tambo track gang, had locked the
switch of the ballast-siding against
the mainline to get even with the
foreman . . .
Impressive for its toughness, the
autobiography is also strangely
enlivened by its moments of fantasy
when, as if they were the most natural
things in the world, Fawcett meets
ghosts and fairies. Apparently the
belief in the occult, which had a good
deal to do with attracting his father
into the jungle in search of lost cities,
continues in the family:—
I was emerging from an inspec-
tion of used brake-shoes scattered
along beside the track inside the
Galera Tunnel when a little human
figure accompanied by an animal of
some kind moved across the mouth,
ten yards ahead of me .... The figure
was that of a little man about two-
feet high with slit eyes and dressed
like Robinson Crusoe .... A few
days later at Anticona .... I caught
a glimpse of two of these “Robinson
Crusoe” mannikins with their rat-
like companions beside a small pool
amongst the rocks. It was for a
second only, and then mist obscured
them.
The second part of the book—the
sequel to “Exploration Fawcett,”
when the author, 25 years after his
father’s disappearance, flies over the
Matto Grosso in search of the explorer
or his lost cities—is not so good.
In the first place his flights, financed
by a Brazilian millionaire, were
obviously newspaper stunts, another
example of how newspaper publicity
and easy transport by air are every-
where marring the spirit of adventure;
and in the second place, the few dis-
coveries that Fawcett did make on
these flights were all rather disconcert-
ingly negative. The “ruined cities,”
the mysterious “obelisks” in the jungle,
the fortifications on the mountain-tops
all turned out to be natural forma-
tions —the “obelisks” were dead trees;
the “cities” weather-worn cliffs (rather
like our own “ruined city” in Arnhem
Land} —and it seems that his father
may have lost his life searching for
rains that never existed.
However, if it hasn’t the vitality of
. the engineering autobiography, this
remains quite a story in its own way;
and if the ruins weren’t ruins it is as
well to have the truth established . . .
especially as there are always plenty
of genuine ruins elsewhere in South
America, to say nothing of ghosts and
fairies.
Streets and a Road
Australian streets and roads are
becoming so well trodden literarily
that the reader who picks up another
book of Australian travels cannot
avoid the feeling of having been there
before: for instance, one has hardly
left Melbourne in Up and Down the
Sydney Road, by Beresford Rea
(Georgian House), before one is in
Seymour, whose centenary-history one
reviewed a few weeks ago; and then
one is in the Kelly country, and Rea
is telling the old, old story —for the
how-manyth time? And in Sydney’s
Highways of History (Georgian House)
Geoffrey Scott’s streets intersect with
those of Isadore Brodsky’s “Sydney
Looks Back,” which one reviewed in
the middle of last year.
Brodsky’s affections centre around
King Street, maybe because he writes
discursively around and around the
town, whereas Scott’s best writing is
about the Quay, and he begins to
weary of George Street, Pitt Street and
Castlereagh Street halfway up town —
beyond Brickfield Hill he can hardly
abide them, and by Central it is as
much as he can do to be civil to them.
On the whole, Scott’s book seems
more rewarding than Brodsky’s, be-
cause it is more systematic: three
chapters on George Street, two on Pitt
Street, one each on The Rocks, Bridge
Street, Castlereagh Street, Macquarie
Street, Church Hill, Hyde Park and
O’Connell Street. He is well on his
subject all the time, and he builds
up a picture of the evolution of Sydney
streets that is clearer than one remem-
bers having seen before.
One sees George Street beginning
as “The High Street,” the oldest street
in Australia, and fronting Sydney
Cove, the house, wharf and stores of
Robert Campbell, formerly of Cal-
cutta and later of Duntroon; show
gardens, he had, and peacocks walk-
ing in the orchard. And across the
way, almost, around the Argyle Cut
district, was Sydney’s first Chinatown,
noisy, villainous and bawdy; and from
Margaret Street to Barrack Street
nothing but the barracks wall with the
barracks and parade-ground beyond
(Continued on page 58)


5*
I®
K* £vv
I >v
1859-1959
One
Hundred
Years of
Progress
COMA,
Vs &
0*
INVEST IN QUEENSLAND
Australia’s fastest-growing
State!
Uranium, aluminium, copper ... today they mean
economic progress for Queensland on a scale
thought barely possible a few short years ago.
That these vital, natural resources now contribute
so Importantly to the State’s development fs due
largely to the constantly-expanding operations of
Queensland’s biggest secondary industry—
electricity supply.
Set against this background of truly striking
progress, the electricity industry now offers you an
attractive, secure, investment opportunity.
THE STATE
ELECTRICITY
commission!
|
£5•7 • 6 %
GOVERNMENT
GUARANTEED
• Securities will be listed on the Stock
Exchange and are negotiable
• You may deposit 10% now and pay
the balance by 30th April, 1959
• £5.7.6% is Australia’s highest Govern -
ment-guaranteed interest rate,
• Short, medium or long term —5, 10
or 20 years.
APPLY NOW THROUGH:
• The Commonwealth Trading Bank
• Australia and New Zealand Bank Etd.
• Bank of New South Wales
• The Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney litd.
any Stockbroker; any Regional Electricity Board Office,
or direct to the State Electricity Commission of
Queensland, 447 Gregory Terrace,
Brisbane. Phone: 5 2701
Underwritten by
Charles A. Ord &
Minnett.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, January 21, 1959
Vol. 80—No. 4119
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adama
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
Hew Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O. ), Wellington.
"ROOM OF REALITIES"
r T'HE latest facility for jaded United
•*- Nations talkers in their expensive
building in New York is “a room of
quiet,” paid for by the world’s tax-
payers, a “meditation-room,” where
“only thoughts can speak.”
The U.N. finds the idea so engaging
that it has issued a special pamphlet
about it. It seems, from its picture, to
consist of a cell, modelled on a normal
prison-cell with one window done in
cubist designs and a scoring across it
as if an inmate had been using his nail-
file in an attempt to escape.
There is no furniture in the room
except a “block of ironstone” on which
“a shaft of light strikes the stone in a
room of utter simplicity.” Deliberately
or not. the whole thing seems to
symbolise the empty futility of the
U.N. organisation, out of which it
seems possible to strike sound, but
which can perform no function of itself.
The U.N., in describing this sanctu-
ary, said a mouthful in the paragraph:
There is an ancient saying that the
sense of a vessel is not in its shell but in
the void. So it is with this room. It
is for those who come here to fill the
void with what they find in their centre
of stillness.
So, it might be added, is it with the
U.N. It is a void which evilly disposed
manipulators of world politics fill with
the most startling things that they
find in their own vortices, which are
not usually “centres of stillness.”
In Cuba, for instance, rebels, a
body led by university long-hairs with
guns, have been filling voids in the
earth with bodies of the Batista regime,
a Government which only a few
months ago was a tower of strength
“for freedom.” a vociferous backer of
the Atlantic Charter, always ready to
fill the void with shouts and resolutions
backing the Dulles - Hammarskjold
axis.
It is now forgotten—almost—that
it was this regime which fathered the
resolution condemning the allegedly
brutal aggression of the French and
British in their descent on Suez in 1956,
the U.N. interference leading the
nations into the trap which has made
Khrushchev very nearly master of the
Middle East and strengthened Com-
munism immeasurably throughout the
world.
It is symbolic that the British
Foreign Office, which was so bitterly
humiliated by the events of the last
months- of 1956, is in hot water for
having consented to the supply of arms
to the Batista regime of nail-pullers,
torturers and murderers. This is an
action which would have met with the
vehement opposition of the nail-pullers
themselves if the United Kingdom had
similarly bolstered Israel in its contest
with Nasser; this, though the Israelites
were carrying-out offensive-defence
against a foreign foe who frequently
invaded their borders, while the Cuban
upheaval was a domestic matter.
'X'HERE is no “centre of quiet” in
A Europe, where the East Germans
still threaten to oust the Western allies
with nuclear bombs and tank-shells
supplied by courtesy of the Russian
Government, which is laboriously
hammering-out an anti-nuclear policy
at Geneva with the representatives of
various sceptical Powers.
Russian policy in the matter has
assumed the usual guise of an Oriental
chimera, an unstable thing of which
the content changes coloration from
moment to moment or is several differ-
ent colors at the same time.
Moscow, for instance. having
repelled all attempts to achieve a
German peace-treaty during the past
10 years and having armed Eastern
Germany to the point at which it feels
powerful enough to threaten the whole
Western world with atomic weapons, is
now demanding a peace-conference to
be held behind the Iron Curtain, with
31 nations participating. At the same
time it is lecturing Western Germany
(which holds two-thirds of the people
and resources of the old Reich) on the
wickedness of developing military
power for defence or any other pur-
pose. It feels that the arming of West
Germany would be regarded with
misgiving in Communist countries.
Its whole policy is aimed in Europe
at two targets to be destroyed through
the use in particular of the Berlin
situation and the new offensive for
German “peace” without German unity
on a free-election basis: the ruin of
Nato and the disintegration of the
European Free Trade area.
The Kremlin is willing for the unity
of Germany only if the resources and
manpower and genius of Western
Germany are brought into the Com-
munist zone and the West deprived of
them.
There is no “centre of quiet” even
in the United States any more than in
Iraq and Persia, where Communist
intrigue is at its height. While the cold
war is being pursued from Moscow
across the borders of the Nato and
Baghdad Pact countries with relentless
fury, the deputy-head of the U.S.S.R.,
Mikoyan. has been heard inveighing
against it in the United States, moving
unstable gatherings of reporters, whose
opinions have no anchorage, almost to
tears with his Armenian eloquence.
He has even smiled on wretched Hun-
garian refugees whose relatives were
buried in thousands only a couple of
years ago by Russian tanks under a
policy specifically implemented under
his charge and in line with his lifelong
methods.
He has pleaded for “peace.” He has
almost persuaded large sections of
Americans and others, with the aid of
a press which reports him seriously as
if every word he used were to be
trusted, that he is against the cold war
and that Russia is heading for freedom.
He, in fact, has produced the idea
that past massacres and deportations
were the inevitable contents of normal
revolutions with an air that was almost
convincing.
ALSO, he has propagandised the
theory that Russia is now a free
country in which nothing “political” is
ever punished!
There is no such thing as a “politi-
cal” offence in Soviet Russia, and
never has been. The word “political,”
in Communist double - talk, like
“peace.” has an entirely different mean-
ing to its meaning in English. What is
“political” in the Communist concep-
tion is something judged “politic” by
the State, and anything that is not so
approved by the State is not political
but treasonable or seditious at best.
Then there is the unedifying
spectacle of the representative of
Hungary standing up in the General
Assembly, and, amid respectful silence,
assuring the United Nationers —“dead-
pan” —that condemnation of the Soviet
massacres in Hungary was “doing
enormous harm” and that “the presence
of Soviet troops in his country had
“no connection with the counter-
revolution [which they suppressed with
wholesale slaughter], but is solely for
defence against the aggressive inten-
tions of Nato bases in north Germany
and Italy.”
There appears to be need for more
rooms specially fitted-out in the U.N.
building by the East River.
One might be equipped with a
prickly-pear bed as a “Room of
Realities” into which members could
go and meditate on the actualities of the
international situation and the hypoc-
risies of a startling number of the U.N.
nations and policy-makers.


TEST-RUN
“It may need a few modifications and adjustments here and there, but otherwise, like women, I think it’s here to stay.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Mr. Paradox's Dilemma
As a display of optimism the conjectures
put forward in certain N.S.W. Labor
quarters that the D.L.P. might be willing
to sell its support to the A.L.P. at the
State elections in return for retention of
City Council seats should win a year’s
supply of toasted buns with Russian
raspberries on top.
The . Deputy Leader of the Federal
party, A. A. Calwell, was more realistic
when he said that there was no hope of
union between the A.L.P. and D.L.P.,
and that in order to win elections from
now on the party must “get rid of the
D.L.P.,” which deprives Labor of seats
by its habit of giving preferences to its
opponents.
Any.party which has the support of
the N.S.W. A.L.P. State Executive as at
present constituted, not to mention that
of the Communist United Front, is only
dreaming if it doesn’t believe that the
D.L.P. is importing all its big guns
(including Joshua and Keon) into N.S.W.
at election-time for the purpose of dishing
the Cahill Government.
It is no wonder that that unfortunate
political outfit hesitates to take to the
election water, or perhaps finds itself
unable to concentrate sufficiently to
achieve the act necessary for the plunge.
It has become bogged-down in its own
low cunning, caught in its own man-
traps.
To achieve sufficient election-funds and
secure key-votes it has had to pander to
the big Communist unions and at the
same time keep out of the disputes be-
tween them and other unions whose
leaders get more and more annoyed every
time peaceable workers are forced today
down their jobs temporarily to suit the
needs of striking wharfies.
Mr. Cahill cannot join Mr. Parkinson,
the Communist Federal President of the
Coalminers’ Federation, which is out of
step both with the State Government and
most of his own members, in. the
propaganda against the alleged develop-
ment of wholesale unemployment
through the closing of uneconomic
mines.
He has to leave all that to Dr. Evatt
because his Government is an equal
partner with the Commonwealth in the
set-up of coal organisation, and it is
impossible to attack the Commonwealth
Government without attacking Cahill. He,
on the other hand, cannot take credit for
the great improvement of life on the coal-
fields without delivering a blow to the
kidneys of Dr. Evatt and Mr. McNeely,
the general-secretary of the Miners’
Federation, who is to be a Cahill candi-
date at the poll for Cessnock and who
jointly put forward the view that Cess-
nock and the surrounding district have
been reduced to a depression approaching
that of 1929 by the failure of Canberra
to act.
Mr. Cahill likes to foster the illusion
that he is the arch-philanthropist of the
coalfields, the father of all power-stations
and amenities granted through the Joint
Coal Board. But he cannot pull himself
into the grateful limelight without pulling
Mr. Menzies also.
Similarly, it is Cahill’s thesis that New
South Wales, under his Premiership, has
become a rich and prosperous and up-
and-coming State beside which other
States pale ; and no doubt he fully be-
lieves this on the say-so of the s.-p.
bookies and publicans who frequent
Parliament House and the A.L.P. head-
quarters.
But Dr. Evatt doesn’t agree. To him
Australians a whole is a dismal swamp
of recession created by his Federal rivals.
His viewpoint is in direct contradiction
to Mr. Cahill’s.
That gentleman is certainly the favorite
competitor to become Mr. Paradox
for 1959. Almost everything he says or
does' seems to react against him.
Entertaining Silly Season
It has been a remarkably entertaining
silly season in Melbourne, Sabrina, in
prior possession, has been collecting the
shafts of limelight left to spare by the
“On the Beach” company, and, if the film
represents Melbourne as the last place on
earth when nuclear destruction comes,
Melbourne is well able to endure the
label for the distinction of providing the
background and of learning what Miss
Ava Gardner has been having for lunch.
Thus, at one place she dropped into,
she commanded a pot of tea and a glass
of ice, poured the tea over the ice, and
drank it. This seemed to surprise some
people. But the fact is that Miss
Gardner’s taste in iced tea is more
enlightened than her taste in bull-
fighting. No local fanciers of iced tea
in the present warm spell should dismiss
this way of making it without first trying
it themselves. It is immensely superior to
tea that has merely been gradually chilled,
and which, that way, loses its flavor and
aroma. It does demand a generous base
of ice-cubes, on which the boiling tea
promptly turns cold and zestful. Glasses
of tea merely kept in a refrigerator are,
by comparison, a mournful drink.
Another noteworthy performer of the
Melbourne holiday-season operates at a
mundane level and has been wonderfully
successful in taking a rise out of
authority. He requires no production or
direction. His script—which he knows
painfully well—is the parking and traffic
by-laws of the City Council.
This one-man act is being put on,
with persistence and ingenuity, by David
Robertson. He is by profession a loss-
adjuster, and by hobby a shooter of holes
through civic regulations. He has .cer-
tainly involved the City Council in some
loss, and the council will apparently have
to adjust the loss itself.
Mr. Robertson satisfied a court that
the City Council had no right to charge
fees to Cricket Ground patrons parking in
Yarra Park, whereupon the council had
to ask for its two-bobs as a donation
instead of as a demand ; and legislation
will have to be brought into the State
Parliament to put all this straight. Since
then he has been courting and collecting
parking-tickets in a personal crusade for
fair-dealing for the motorist, conducted
with a notebook, a camera, a tape-
measure, and marked coins wherever he
thinks he can catch the council out on
breaches of its own by-laws.
There may be an element of “agin the
Gover’ment” in all this. But Crusader
Robertson at the same time may _ have
something in his assertion that the council
has shown more interest in making money
out of parking than in solving the park-
ing problem.
The Right Road
[From Canberra]
The frightening carnage on the Aus-
tralian roads in the past 12 months, and
particularly over the Christmas-New Year
holiday period, has shocked Common-
wealth authorities into action.
Appalled by the slaughter on the roads,
Commonwealth Transport Minister
Shane Paltridge has called a conference
of Commonwealth-State authorities to
launch a full-scale attack on the problem.
The conference, which will be held in
Canberra on February 12, will be
attended by State Transport Ministers,
automobile-organisation representatives,
leaders of commerce and industry and
other interested parties.
Senator Paltridge hopes that as a result
of the conference he will be in a position
to put a scheme before the special
Premiers’ Conference in March for
financing a road life-saving plan.
The main theme at the Roads Confer-
ence next month will be consideration of
a national plan to accelerate the develop-
ment and improvement of Australia’s
roads-system. Discussion will centre on
plans to co-ordinate and improve the
construction and maintenance of Aus-
tralia’s roads, which, according to authori-
ties, are responsible for a large percentage
of the accidents in Australia.
If such a plan can be hammered-out
it will be placed before the Premiers’
Conference in March, which has been
called to discuss Commonwealth-State
financial relations generally. However,
finance for roads will take priority at this
meeting, and a decision will be made on
•the allocation of Commonwealth
financial aid to the States for road-works.
The allocation this financial year is
£37,250,000, and it is expected to increase
considerably in the new financial year.
It is thought likely that while the
•Premiers are in Canberra for the
Premiers’ Conference, the Prime Minister
may call a special meeting of the Loan
Council to consider allowing local-
governing authorities to raise more
money for developmental road-works in
the remainder of this financial year.
Apart from the question of roads, the
Premiers’ Conference will reopen the
whole question of Commonwealth-State
financial relations.
Both N.S.W. and Victoria are expected
to press for a resumption of States’


taxing-powers, taken-over by the Com-
monwealth under the uniform-tax legis-
lation many years ago.
The Commonwealth is agreeable to
handing back some taxing-powers if a
workable formula can be devised, but
the smaller States, which benefit greatly
under the present system, are expected to
fight any move to give them back the
taxing-rights.
German-Australian Industry
Melbourne’s south - eastern approaches,
rolling farmland only a few years ago,
are being more and more dedicated to
the motor industry. Bulldozers are at
work on the Volkswagen plant at Clay-
ton, and Australian public companies are
contributing 49 p.c. of the £ 10-million
investment of the newly formed Volks-
wagen (Australasia) Pty., Ltd. This aims,
ultimately, at making the Volks, an all-
Australian car, which, presumably, will
keep its all-German name, for the objec-
tive of the new company is the whole
South Pacific area as well as the Aus-
tralian market.
Of all the striking Australian indus-
trial developments that now stir only
ripples, this, surely, is the one that would
have seemed least probable of all when
Volkswagens first puttered into the inter-
national vocabulary as one of Hitler’s
enticements to his deluded Germans.
Even 10 years ago we couldn’t have
imagined the president of Volkswagen-
werk at Wolfsburg as the chairman of a
German-Australian company.
Advertising Australia
Tourists returning to Australia are
raging about the poor show put on by
our public-relations bodies overseas, and
by the manner in which New Zealand
and other Commonwealth countries are
leaving Australia for dead when it comes
to publicity.
One homeward - bound traveller sat
through several descriptive films about
South Africa and New Zealand (supplied
by their Governments) on board ship, but
the only Australian “short” screened was
an admonitory one dealing with the
requirements of the Australian Customs.
New Zealand supplies a variety of attrac-
tive tourist literature to be put in with
material by travel-agencies anywhere.
The same critical traveller found an Aus-
tralian pamphlet (supplied by a shipping-
company) which dealt with Australia
principally from the time of Dirk Hartog
and Dampier to Captain Phillip.
These travellers’ tales seem to be
endorsed by Sir Norman Hqlbert, tem-
porary Speaker of the British .House of
Commons, recently in Melbourne. He
said that British M.P.s received much
more in the way of publicity from sister-
Dominions than from Australia, adding,
“I don’t think Australia is doing enough
to sell itself, or make its attractions,
potentialities and wares known to the
rest of the world .... You spend a lot
of money bringing immigrants here. I
would like to see some of that money
used to invite not only once, but probably
each year, eight or ten prominent British
industrialists to come out here to see what
Australia has to offer.”
Hulbert was clearly astonished by
the attractions and potentialities of Aus-
tralia, and described his visit as “the best
three weeks in my life.”
Eugene Black, president of the World
Bank, has also criticised Australia’s over-
seas publicity deficiencies in comparison
with its performances and possibilities.
To advertise a country you must
advertise, not merely put staff on a
payroll. Possibly it would be a good idea
to give an advertising appropriation, in
annual succession, to a few top Australian
advertising-agencies, and then retain the
one which got the best results.
A.D. 1788-1959
At the end of this week will be cele-
brated the 171st anniversary of the found-
ing of the Sydney Cove settlement.
January 26 is the date on which, some-
where near the northern base of
Macquarie Place in Sydney, Governor
Phillip came ashore with his staff and
officially founded the colony.
There are some who argue that the
date which really should be celebrated
is February 7, when Phillip assembled
the convicts under armed guard and had
read to them his commission and the
statutes establishing the colony, backed
by a few well-chosen words from himself
as to what would happen to them if they
should not behave.
In actual fact this date did not repre-
sent the foundation of the colony, for
Phillip’s instructions placed him under
the Home Department with full powers of
Government as soon as he should
approach the coast, and he had by
February used those powers to appoint
officers and perform acts of Government.
Those who took part in the historic
ceremony on January 26, which all old
hands and pioneers prefer to call Anni-
versary Day rather than Australia Day,
as has become the habit, regarded what
took place—the raising of the Union
Jack on a mast of which the latitude and
longitude were calculated, the drinking
of toasts including “Success to the
Colony” and the firing of a volley—as
an act of taking possession as is stated
clearly in the notebook-log of Lieutenant
Philip Gidley King, who was present.
January 26 was the first Anniversary
Day celebrated in the colony of New
South Wales and the continent of Aus-
tralia. It was celebrated for the first
time in 1791 as a “color day” on which
salutes were fired and flags hoisted,
and doubtless would have been celebrated
in the previous two years if anybody
had been in a mood to celebrate anything.
In 1789, in a summer of weariness and
starvation, there seemed no hope for
Botany Bay. In 1790 before all was
misery and death, with convicts dropping-
down in the fields from weakness and the
summer made demoralising by a series
of fierce thunderstorms which swept
through the wattle-and-daub of the bark-
and leaf-thatched huts that passed for
houses —disasters which no doubt were
attributed to the wrath of God at the
French Revolution, the nuclear bomb not
having been invented.
On January 26, 1789, the first Anni-
versary Day, Parramatta was the fringe
of civilisation, Botany Bay and Prospect
Hill, Toongabbie and Castle Hill the
outposts on the fringe of savagery.
The population was below 2000 and
the mortality that year was perhaps 25
per cent. Cultivation at Parramatta had
just begun. The first wheat had been
harvested in the Botanical Gardens in
Sydney. It was unsafe to venture a mile
out of the closely guarded camp of
Sydney without military support.
And the next year was even worse,
despite the few acres that somehow got
cultivated with the hoe among the giant
tree-roots out at Rose Hill. The first
celebration of Anniversary Day in 1791,
therefore, was the first notice that the
Botany Bay community had dug its toes
in sufficiently to feel that it would sur-
vive.
Great - great - grandchildren of the
First Fleeters who will assemble at
pioneer functions on the 171st Anniver-
sary Day at the end of this week can
look back with pride on the staunchness
of their ancestors who hung on when
there seemed to be no chance that the
colony would survive, and marvel that
they were able to live without motor-
cars, TV, h.-p., s.-p., child - endowment
and hot-water services, which seem now
to be looked on as essentials even to
existence.
The Commonwealth boasts a larger
population than the Mother Country in
the foundation-year of 1788, and two
cities as great as, or greater than, the
London of that time, with a Paris and
a Rome thrown in as the next-largest
capitals.
Australian history is a subject that
could well be recommended for the treat-
ment of pessimists.
Perils of the Bay
The perils of Port Phillip Bay —-
shallow, unsheltered and unpredictable—-
have brought into outline, at least, a new
rescue-system designed to cut-down the
number of its boating tragedies. This
is the Victorian Coastguard Organisation,
which, under police, Harbor Trust and
yacht-club sponsorship, is making a
register of boatmen willing to man a
24-hour rescue-roster under police direc-
tion. The help of lifesavers and profes-
sional fishermen also is being enlisted.
If inexperienced people who set-off in
any old craft can’t be persuaded that the
Bay isn’t as innocuous as it sometimes
looks, the next best thing seems to be
to be more adequately prepared to get
them out of trouble.
Another move the Coastguard
Organisation is planning may save more
voyagers from themselves before they
have to call upon it to bring them in—
the V.C.O. aims at the classification of
all boats on the Bay and their examina-
tion for seaworthiness.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INK'S"
At the Olympic Stadium by the muddy
stream during Test II the city-
dwelling brother was obviously entertain-
ing his two country-dwelling brothers,
and right royally: from his kitbag he
extracted a polythene bag tied at the top
: —Victorian canned beer packed in ice—
and sandwiches. As they had arrived
fresh, before the start of the great throw-
day, I could sympathise with Country-
brother J, when the last beer-can had
been emptied, and his city-brother went
to walk away to empty-out the melted ice,
grabbing the bag, taking off his shoes and
sox and dribbling the ice-water on his
pavement-pounded feet—with an angelic
smile, too, that added a ray of benefaction
to a beautiful day.—“Kalic.”
“Bo”: During play on the fourth day
of the third Test in Sydney the score-
board carried a notice: “Wanted at
Members’ Gate, Dr. XYZ.” Had the
medical profession, along with Royalty,
taken to going incognito on their plea-
sures, and was this member of it using
the fag-end of the alphabet instead of the
beginning so as not to get himself
mixed-up with the broadcasting people?
Then it struck me —it could be a dinkum,
if not a dinkum-Aussie, monicker ; after
all, there are plenty of Polish migrants
around, and X, Y and Z are as common
in their surnames as the “O” is with
Irishmen.
“Zake”: During the Test in Sydney
I sat beside an elderly man in the Mem-
bers’ Stand ; and during play we naturally
swapped comments. When the players
resumed after the lunch-break he got up
to go to the dining-room, thus beating
the queueing-up problem, and as he went
he offered me the loan of his binoculars,
which 1 accepted. Now, in what other
sport would a man leave £2O- to £3O-
- of Zeiss with a complete stranger,
confident that >vhen he returned half-an-
hour later the trustee wouldn’t have
skipped with ’em?
“McDorian”: By some sort of miracle,
the rain eased at about 1.45 ; on to the
twinkling field strolled the cricketers.
This was a continuation of the previous
week’s, bout, and I was one of the two
openers . . . Tommy took strike, and I
watched as he blocked his way through
the first over. Then the fast-bowler
hurtled up to the crease to attack me ;
the first ball I tapped away, the next
somehow turned itself into a boundary
snick, the next sprang off the pitch and
thumped me on the thigh, and the next
ball, which I tried to whack, smacked
me on the backside. There seemed to
be a hush, so I looked at Tommy to see
if he wanted to run ; then the awful
words of the wicket-keeper: ‘"You’re out,
mate!” Dazed, I walked off the field,
pondering this reversed l.b.w. decision.
But there was some consolation in the
remark of a team-mate: “L.b.w. nothing!
Best case of b.b.w. I ever saw!”
♦X* ❖ ♦>
“Joanne”: At Surfers’ Paradise (Q.)
on a house being built the beholder
learns that X is the builder, Y is doing
the brickwork and Z is the architect.
.It's an imposing sign, and in a small
square in the centre is: “Victim I. A.
Smith.”
❖ ❖ *
“Ilin”: Our outer suburb, fast becom-
ing socialised, but not by Socialists, is
largely septic-tanked, but That Man still
comes around to a few dwellings. As
our wealthiest matron graciously offered
me a lift in her beautiful car, the pan-van
screeched around the corner, and the
driver’s offsider, with whom my husband
had years ago worked in a vastly different
capacity, bellowed out a friendly greeting
to me. Judging by the look on the
matron’s face, I shall not be invited to
her “tea an’ cakes.” Pity. I had a septic-
tank long before she had, too!
❖ ❖ ❖
“Imperial 55”: They were milling
around after the New Year break swop-
ping experiences, comparing suntans, and
showing that general reluctance to start
work which characterises Monday. The
junior had been sunburnt and started to
peel. Her frock showed a generous pro-
portion of back in an assortment of
flesh-colors, and she had it turned to the
door just as the junior partner arrived.
“Happy New Year,” he said. “Aren’t I
the lucky man? I’ve got a two-tone
typist! ”
“Couldn't We settle this out of court, officer — COULDN’T We ?”
CURTAIN-LINES
“Sydney Actors’ Equity wants Sydney Opera
House, tenders for which closed on Monday,
abandoned in favor of a £ 1-million theatre,
the other estimated £5-million to be spent on
training ballets and actors, and forming and
subsidising orchestras and theatrical companies."
Just when Sydney Opera House’s
Tenders for construction close,
Actors’ Equity arouses,
Thinks the project on the nose:
“Why put up so vast a building?
It will cost six-mill-i-un !
Save five-millions on the gilding ;
Build the theatre for one !
“There are actors, sad and dreary,
In this hard, cold world of ours,
Poor musicians, weak and weary —
Why not buy them pretty flowers?’’
“Why,’’ a stranger asked them sadly,
“Have you stayed so long aloof
When the press was rooting madly
For that cultural concrete roof?’’
“First of all we were divided,
But at last we all concur’’ —
Said the stranger, “I’ve decided
Fife is like a theatre :
“Everyone is well-intentioned;
Nobody is on the make
Till six-million pounds are mentioned —
Then they want to split the take.
“Why be foolish now, and louse-up
Architecture s crackbrained crown?
Let the builder put the House up —
Can’t you actors bring it down?’’
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


It was a hot day, and the mourners
left the crematorium and repaired
to the nearest pub. The main
bar was full, but a few mourners found
a small room where there appeared to
be only two drinkers, and were delighted
when their order was promptly met.
“Drinking in the cookies’ room?” the
drink-waiter inquired. “Cookies’ room?”
asked the drinkers. “Well,” explained the
waiter, “the boys who attend the furnaces
at the crematorium drink here.” The
drinkers consulted their watches ; it was
time to go. The two “cookies” gathered-
up the abandoned beers. “Must be
Sydney visitors,” one said. “Don’t seem
to go for the Victorian beer ; bloWed if
1 know why.”—“Yarra.”
♦> *> ❖
“North Esk”: Some Tasmanian drive-
in theatres are having trouble with gate-
crashers carried in by drivers who con-
ceal them in the boot of the car. One
driver who was told-off by the proprietor,
and asked to leave, vented his displeasure
by playing his car-horn all the way out,
to the wrath of other patrons.
►j» ♦♦♦ ♦;«
“Kenyas”: The girl at the library (she
was a newly - arrived British migrant)
was commenting on her Christmas to a
man subscriber. “There was one thing I
missed,” she complained. “There was no
mistletoe. Don’t you do any kissing in
Australia?” “Not often,” admitted the
bloke ; “we’re more direct here.”
* ❖ ❖
“Eureka”: For years the dilapidated
wagonette had been an eyesore under a
tree in the paddock close to the main
road. He was considering giving a carter
a few pounds to take it to the tip vvhen
a motorist stopped and asked if he would
consider selling it. “What's it worth?”
the farmer asked. “I’ll give you a tenner
for it just as it stands,” said the motorist,
“and send a chap to take it away to-
morrow.” The farmer hesitated, and the
motorist said: “I’ll make it fifteen-quid,
but that’s the limit.” “Sold,” said the
farmer, and the money was handed over.
The two pairs of wheels certainly look
nice as entrance-gates to the motorist’s
elaborate home, and many of his friends
envy the pair of old buggy-lamps, fitted
with electric lights, outside the house.
* * *
“Paddy”: I’ll say Canberra has a way
of its own (B. 24/12/’58); besides the
numbering of houses, the naming of
streets has me intrigued. Apparently the
Nomenclature Branch of the Town
Planning Department had more names
than streets, as over a stretch of a mile
of one street appear the names Chisholm
(in Ainslie), Donaldson, and after making
a small turn, Cooyong (in Braddon).
Entering Turner the street becomes
Boldrewood, and with one slight turn
and another almost at right - angles it
maintains this name until it reaches
O’Connor, where it changes to Miller for
the two-mile run through that suburb to
Lyneham, where it becomes Mackennal.
If the name must vary, why not main-
“And all the fuel this unit requires, sir, is a young maiden once a Week."
tain the Boldrewood stretch and term
that passing through the business houses,
“Robbery Under Arms,” that passing be-
tween the three schools, “The Minor’s
Right,” and the portion climbing Mount
Ainslie, “Ups and Downs,” and so on.
These would be no stranger than many
names now appearing in the city. And
perhaps the Nomenclature Branch could
inform us why Marcus Clark Street had
the Clarke spelt with and without an
“e” on the posts at each end of one
block?
♦2* *2»
“Dear Bill”: Last year two old dears,
in answer to an ad., rented a cottage
at a small seaside resort, but on arrival
were dismayed at its isolation. Terrified
by every sound, they had a few sleepless
nights before they were %ble to hire an
old chap who did odd jobs in the
neighborhood to sleep in a shack at the
back. Early this season the local paper
included an ad. by the old fellow:
“Wood supplied. Odd jobs done.
Nervous women slept with.”
+♦♦
“Dicky”: The laconic bloke applied
for permission to burn-off, and was duly
asked if he had any firefighting equip-
ment. He scratched his head, thought it
over and eventually said he had. Not
overimpressed, the powers - that -be
pressed for further details: exactly what
plant? “Me wife and a wet bag,” advised
the laconic bloke.
♦t 4
“Bicky”: Met a bookie friend after
his first day of fielding at a small trotting
meeting in the country: “Blimey! The
punters are certainly well-educated in that
part of the world—we were lucky to get
home with our bags!”
* * *
Tt is traditional in our house to have
A a New Year pudding as well as a
Christmas-pudding, and if the exchequer
can stand the bangs the fruity mix-
ture -is well-salted with threepences
and sixpences. The visitor was really
enjoying his helping, but as he neared
the end of his plateful, was aware of
Mum’s eye upon him. “Didn’t you get
anything out of that?” she asked. “No,
should I?” “There was a sixpence in it.”
“Gosh, me gullet’s not that big. You
must have made a mistake.” “It must
have been a bit of peel, Mum, and you
thought it was a sixpence,” was the com-
forting suggestion of young sister. Any-
way, it didn’t stop the visitor from
coming back for more. Mum carved
with great delicacy, and I saw the slice
was loaded. Came the end of that
plateful, too, and this time Mum could


“Make mine a small one, and neat”
not restrain herself. “There was some-
thing in that piece, I’m sure.” “True
enough. I saw her carve it,” I said. The
visitor’s eyes bulged. “Gee, Mum, if you
keep feeding him sixpences like a poker-
machine, one of these days you’ll strike
the jackpot!” cried Junior, while the rest
of the table forgot good manners and
shrieked with laughter.—“ Beam.”
❖ ♦> ❖
“Alma”: Voting-day was a scorcher,
and the dear old lady struggled up the
hill to the polling-booth with very bad
grace. “Drat Mrs. Pankhurst!” a by-
passer heard her mutter, as she breasted
the last rise. “I wish they’d left her in
jail.”
❖ ❖
“W.P.T.”: There was a time when
tradesmen’s calendars were hung in the
dining-room, kitchen and even the
drawing-room, but in modern homes the
walls are left bare, and you won’t find a
calendar hanging anywhere except the
garage or toilet. Gone are the days when,
the calendar being out of date, the pretty
picture was framed or tacked on the wall.
I remember one country home in which
the walls of the dining-room were com-
pletely papered with calendars and the
colored supplements once enclosed with
periodicals.
♦I 4 *.& »!♦
“Wu Foo”: A dear old gent who had
run his country universal store for over
50 years was retiring with the good-
will of his clientele plus a six-figure bank-
balance. At his send-off the shire chair-
man commented upon his spectacular
business success despite so little initial
education ; and in his response the ex-
storekeeper let the secret out: “Always
be sure ol one per cent, on everything
you handle. Yes,” he reflected, “if 1
bought flour for ten-shillings a bag, I
weighed it into paper-bags and priced it
to return a pound. You just can’t lose,”
he added, "if you make certain of that
one per cent, on everything you sell.”
* ❖ ❖
“Central”: Women play a big part in
church affairs, raising much - needed
funds, but not many of them are remem-
bered in memorials. One Sydney church
has a stained-glass window that honors
such a woman when the John Taylor
Memorial Church was built at Green-
wich a likeness of the daughter of the
donor was included on the western side
of the church ; it shines very nicely in
the setting sun.
❖ ❖ *
“Barrowman”: Would the author of
Time means Tucker be in error (Xmas B.)
in naming the peanut-vendor at the
Brewarrina Show as Percy MacDonald?
About that time the undoubted King of
the Peanuts was Percy Brunton, who
roamed from Western Australia to the
top of Queensland with his portable stall.
❖ >♦ *t*
“Suwannee”: The builder’s brick used
as a permanent ad. (B. 17/12/’5B) recalls
a more elaborate use made in Perth,
W.A., of the same device. Trinity
Church, in St. George’s Terrace, is a
noble pile erected in the boom-days of
the goldfields ; it stands right in the centre
of the main business block. On its
foundation-stone for all to see, but veiled
in decent Latin, chiselled deep in the
stone in Gothic characters, is part of
verse I, Psalm 127:
Except the Lord build the House they
labour in vain that build it.
Below, in the plainest of plain English,
is cut the name and description of the
builders:
Bunning Bros., Contractors.
***
“Jock”: The Scot was telling us in the
saloon-bar of his wide knowledge of
whisky. “There are at least eight genuine
brands,” he said. But Bung knocked
him sideways, producing a price-list
showing 2520 different brands.
♦♦♦
“Quartercut”: My young elicited that
I had lived during the reigns of six Eng-
lish sovereigns, and despite my assertion
that such a situation was encompassed
by many people now in their virile fifties,
I got a distinct impression of covert
glances at my feet to see which was in
the grave. Now, on the birthdate year
on my driver’s-licence application I find
inexorably printed “19. . ..” Well, if the
police have so indicated that only 20th-
century Jehus need apply, I have my
pride ; so I have just returned it filled-
in: “1996.”
DOGFACE
“Dr. William Conlan, a Canadian psycholo-
gist, says that there is a strong tendency for
a dog-owner to take on the characteristics of
his dog.”
The bod. who walks a poodle
Looks, to you, as big a noodle
As his tyke.
As well, you'd say that this is
Quite a cert.-—that when his missus
Called, he’d hike
To her heels, and do it hopping
For the earbash he’d be copping.
Like the pooch
That they own, some fellows gambol;
Or, dead sober, they will amble
In a mooch.
Bulldog-owners, it’s emphatic,
All get bandy and asthmatic ;
Slobbery, too.
Yet, although they may affright you.
They will never, never bite you
For a sou.
I've seen spaniel-owners sad-eyed ;
Irish-terrior-owners mad-eyed.
There are blokes,
Like their dogs, who’re always growling.
If you twist their tails, they’re howling—
Human jokes !
Men who Pomeranians pamper
Never learn to put a damper
On their yap.
Foxie-look'tng men are numerous.
Grinning dog will go with humorous
Sort of chap.
Note the cove with Dachshund tagging
A t his heels- — His middle’s sagging,
Underslung.
As for me — well, I’ll be modest,
For 1 really own the oddest
Looking mong !
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


"Cirst we saw half-an-hour of Scotland
Yard crime-detection, then a full-
length whodunit murder-film. This was
followed by a story of hijacking on
the American highways, then a tale of
juvenile delinquency, after which came
a rootin-tootin Western, with plenty of
gun-play and killing of the bad men.
Do they think they’re catering for a
convict population—or are they bringing
back Transportation to rid Britain and
America of criminal films? —“Doric.”
♦> ❖ ❖
“Mugga Way”: Radio time-pips from
the Commonwealth Observatory, Mt.
Stromlo, will soon be monitored by an
atomic clock, costing upwards of £30,000,
which won’t lose a second in 300 years.
That’s £lOO a year for a clock that’s
bound to be obsolete in 300 years. Why
not pay £lOOO for a clock that won’t lose
a second in 10 years?
“Sopranos and Contraltos”: As our
choir has had several pars, written about
them through the mastery of a Bulletin
journalist we now wish to appeal
for a solution to a problem very
real to us. How can we tactfully restrain
our beloved Organist-choirmaster from
filling the air, and at times the floor,
paper ashtrays, glasses, or anything else
conveniently handy, in a vestry we all
unfortunately have to share, with
cigarette-ash and smoke? We would not
attempt to control the smoking of this
our genius, but rather just the unpardon-
able habit of leaving behind the distaste-
ful odor we females find most unpleasant.
*•> ❖ ❖
“Ajax”: Excuse me, “X. Cuseme,” (B.
26/11 /’5B), but Walker’s restaurant was
on the ground-floor in Park Street, so
popular that I have frequently queued
in Park Street waiting for a meal.
Waiters were employed, waitresses being
a rarity in those days. There were
hundreds of city restaurants, including
Gilhams, which served quite adequate
and appetising three-course meals for
6d., 21 tickets for 9s. Around the
wharves fourpenny three-course
meals were “full and plenty.”
Many hotels served free and
lavish counter-lunches. A hotel
on an Elizabeth Street corner
served biscuits and cheese,
saveloys, salads, eschalots,
lettuce, radishes, celery, etc.,
and morning and afternoon a
huge dish of stew with spoons
and plates appeared on the
counters —help yourself. You
could get a beer served in a
handled pint pewter pot and an
open slather at the eats, all
for 3d. This hotel had four
people in the kitchen preparing
counter-lunches. A shearer in
Sydney for the first time saw
the notice: “Dinners 12 till
2 p.m.—6d.,” and said to his
mate: “Blime! Two hours’solid
eating for a zack? Come on
in.” When I began smoking
about 65 years ago “Vanity
Fair,” Ogden’s “Guinea Gold,” and
Dixson’s “No. 1” cigarettes were 3d. a
packet of 10. If the budget didn’t run
to such profligate spending I could get
three for a penny—and often did. I
now smoke 60 cigarettes a day, but I
suppose some day they’ll get me.
Dixson’s tobacco factory was where the
T. and G. Building now stands in
Elizabeth Street, but was later merged
with W. D. & H. O. Wills of Bristol, and
transferred to Raleigh Park, Kensington.
“Pat”: A country hotel we stayed at
stipulated “No shorts in the dining-
room,” so I rushed back to change
myself and three daughters into skirts
and blouses. Half-way through break-
fast, I was intrigued and mildly irritated
to notice the next table occupied by a
Junoesque - type wearing skin - tight
matador-pants and an overblouse show-
ing a generous expanse of midriff. The
proprietress explained that only revela-
tion of the legs was considered un-
respectable.
“Cargo Net”: While employed in
London a visit to Egypt resulted in the
British authorities assessing me on the
sum earned in Cairo. Refusal to pay
on the grounds of Australian citizenship
brought a summons. The assessor, when
convinced the case would be fought,
offered to waive the tax if I paid the cost
of the summons. We settled the matter by
tossing an Australian penny. 1 won. The
New Zealand Government could increase
the flow of visitors by giving Aussies a
similar gamble.
❖ * ❖
“H.C.8.”: Roped in to m.c. a wedding-
reception, I was asked to announce a
woman singer. Duly escorted her into
the wings and was about to walk on to
the platform, when suddenly she was
gone. A few minutes later she bobbed
up from nowhere. 1 introduced her and
left her to it. After the item, like a per-
fect little gentleman, I moved in to escort
her back to her seat. Turning to hand
the damsel down the steps, I found I
was alone. I hung about for several
minutes, then wandered off in mystifi-
cation. Next day my spouse non-
chalantly cleared-up the mystery: “Oh,
Shirley can’t sing with her corsets on.
She ducked into the ‘Ladies’.”
♦2* ►> *•>
“Maitri”: Because three women who
share a home had shown him generous
hospitality, a visitor to Sydney interested
in comparative religion enclosed with the
Christmas-gift he sent them a card in-
scribed “With many thanks to the
Tripitaka’ and added the information
that the Tripitaka was the name of a
famous Buddhist scripture and meant
“The Three Baskets.” Next time he got
in touch with them he met with a cool
reception: they’d completely misunder-
stood the reference.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Dig”: This twilight racing at Rand-
wick is to make full use of dark horses
and nightmares.
.& «J«
“Tidak Makan”: At the annual meet-
ing of an organisation to which I belong
the committee appeared very proud of
persuading a TV-station to send along
a crew. Now and again we of the audi-
ence were subjected to a sudden blinding
glare ; but it was the official party I felt
sorry for. For almost the entire meeting
it was battered by the merciless glare of
searchlights. After many minutes the
distress to some of the members on the
dais was painfully obvious. In addition,
the attention of those of us who were
trying to follow the proceedings was
constantly distracted by the TV-crew
whispering and moving around to adjust
lights, recover flex and remove equip-
ment. Viewers in their homes probably
enjoyed the meeting more than many
present—if the TV-boys are going to be
at the next meeting 1 think I’ll look it
over at home.


POLITICAL POINTS
It isn’t clear whether the proposed
inquiry into the adequacy or other-
wise of salaries of Federal M.P.s is
required to advocate reductions, if
thought necessary, as well as to recom-
mend increases. In view of the suspension
of automatic cost-of-living increases in
the Federal basic wage, the all-round
efforts of private industry to prevent
further inflation, and the national diffi-
culties arising from the adverse balance
of payments, any increase ,in Parlia-
mentary salaries at this stage will be
regarded as a bit poor, to say the least.
• •
With wool income for 1958-59 down
32 per cent, already, there will be a big
hole in tax-collections. But this doesn’t
deter M.P.s from their regular cam-
paign for increased salaries. It would
be more to the point if some considera-
tion were given to their women sec-
retaries, mostly mature and experienced
women, who often do all the member’s
departmental work, and who are about
half as well paid as women doing the
same jobs in private enterprise.
• •
On top of mooted salary-increases the
Government has embarked on the pur-
chase of six new Rolls-Royces for Royal
and v.i.p. visitors. Passers-by in Martin
Place and Canberra Avenue no doubt
will be surprised at the Australian look
of some Royal trippers.
• •
Although Menzies and Khrushchev
again exchanged New Year messages, the
Russians coming to the ECAFE con-
ference at Surfers’ Paradise in March
are not relaxing their usual precautions.
They don’t want to stay in the Broad-
beach Hotel, where the conference sessions
will be attended by 400 delegates from
40 countries, and they are seeking a com-
plete block of serviced rooms. They are
bringing their own security-guards and
servants, and probably some of their own
food and drink.
• •
One more dictator has been added to
the list of those who stand for
democracy and the Atlantic Charter —a
gentleman who appropriately is named
Mr. Phoui Sanankore, and who is styled
Premier of Laos, a State in which about
half the Army is in jail in battalion
formation after being infiltrated to the
rear ranks with Communists. The list
now includes, among new boys, the heads
of Cuba, Pakistan, Egypt, Jordan, Burma,
Indonesia, Iraq and the various Arabias,
all with votes in the U.N. Assembly that
in most circumstances are as potent as
those of the U.K., Canada and Australia.
• •
Cahill is still coy about the date of
the election. He is apparently waiting
to see whether there will be any Labor
party left to support him after the
Federal Conference in March. Or
whether the Opposition is smothered by
its own pile of promises about what it
will do when in power.
• •
The tough and enduring Mikoyan,
who has survived as a member of the
Communist Committees since 1916 and
of the Russian Politbureau since 1935,
plus a death - sentence passed by the
Whites during the revolution, has been
driven to retreat by American hospitality.
He has gone home two days early, having
abandoned his proposed visit to Miami,
Fla., apparently sated with the adulation
of millionaires and capitalist reporters.
On his Hungarian record, red blood is
more to his taste than chicken Maryland.
• •
The W.A. Government has allocated
another £2|m. for extensions to Wynd-
ham jetty and development of the port
at Black Rock, near Derby, to aid
development of the Kimberleys. In
N.S.W. it is impossible to get a deep-
water port even in the Clarence River.
But there is no longer any need for one
there ; the N.S.W. Government and the
Seamen’s Union have killed coastal
transport.
• •
If professional public pulse-taker Roy
Morgan previously sampled the electors
of Albert ward in Melbourne City Coun-
cil he kept quiet about its result.
This was that Morgan, director of the
Australian Gallup Poll, was beaten —2144
to 1952 —in the close by-election won by
A. F. Bottomley, former mayor of
Brighton and managing-director of the
Metropolitan Night Patrol Service.
Albert ward takes in parts of East Mel-
bourne and South Yarra, whose residents
don’t like the idea of becoming giant
overflow parking-zones, especially when
cricket or football crowds pour into Mel-
bourne Cricket Ground.
• •
Melbourne confusion over cross-
ings that aren’t crossings and that
have had no legal standing since
January 1: One of these is in busy
Victoria Street, Abbotsford. One side of
it is under the control of Collingwood
council, which took down the “walking-
legs” symbol when the crossing, not
fitted with flashing amber lights to con-
form with the law, ceased to be a recog-
nised crossing. The other side is under
the control of Richmond council, which
left its “walking-legs” sign up. Not sur-
prising that a 10-year-old girl has since
been knocked down on the “crossing.”
SHOWING THE FLAG


“Cahill Favors Museum,” said a
Sydney newspaper-headline. It is to be
hoped his Government becomes the first
exhibit in the historical displays.
• •
The upshot of the action brought by
John Fairfax and Sons Pty., publishers
of Sydney “Herald,” seeking writs of
attachment against Frank Packer and
King Watson, of the “Telegraph,” and
the sequestration of the assets of Con-
solidated Press, Ltd., was that Manning,
J., in the Supreme Court dismissed the
three motions. The “Herald” alleged
that the “Telegraph” people had infringed
an injunction granted by McLelland,
C.J. in Equity, restraining the “Tele-
graph” from copying the births-and-
deaths ads. in the “Herald,” and were in
contempt of court.
Judge Manning found that, “taking a
benevolent view,” the injunction was not
infringed because the ads. were so re-
written (after the granting of the injunc-
tion) as to no longer amount to copying
within the meaning of Judge McLelland’s
order. He added:
T have no wish to censure anybody.
The conduct of the defendent company has
left a great deal to be desired. But I do
not think the plaintiff company should
properly, in the circumstances, have em-
barked on a series of proceedings of such
a serious nature without first making in-
quiries to ensure that the facts alleged
were correct.
Having come to the conclusion that there
has not —from the strict point of view—
been copying by the “Telegraph” of
“Herald” advertisements, these motions
must fail.
Costs against the “Herald.”
• •
Melbourne held some remnants of
Federal-capital status as long as thei
fighting-services clung grimly to it as
their headquarters. Now those days are
at last over with the gradual moving to
Canberra, with accompanying groans, of
the defence departments and their key
staffs.
Victoria Barracks, in St. Kilda Road,
presents its same old stately creepered-
bluestone facade to the world. And it
still has its loopholed and Crenellated
keep, built about 100 years ago, to help
to defend Melbourne in case the Russian
Czar sent a marauding expedition down
this way. But, internally, it no longer
enshrines the authority of the top Army
brass. For Navy, Army and Air Force
officers and the public servants obliged to
go with them under orders to Canberra,
there is presumably the consolation that
the convoy of furniture-vans now lead-
ing the retreat should, really have got
rolling 25 years ago.
• •
To motorists, at least, Tasmania will
seem less remote and less likely to be left
off the map of Australia when the new
passenger- and car-ferry gets going from
Melbourne to Devonport. This will be
the first Australian equivalent of the
service across the English Channel. Drive-
on, drive-off facilities are planned for
the Princess of Tasmania, now building
at Newcastle and expected to go into
the Tasmanian service in August carry-
ing up to 334 passengers and 100 cars,
three times each way each week.
Among the attractions of the ferry
for motorists is that they will not, as
they are at present, be obliged to drain
petrol-tanks before freighting their cars
to Tasmania. Altogether, the Princess
of Tasmania holds out a number of bright
hopes—for the Tasmanian tourist-trade
and also for coastwise shipping, which
otherwise seems to be bleeding to death.
• •
[From Canberra]
In her New Year honors-list the Queen
bestowed honors on a group of work-
men engaged on the Snowy Mountains
scheme, including two New Australians.
The action drew praise from persons
engaged on the scheme and gave the
workers in that lonely, isolated part
of Australia a great shot - in - the - arm.
The awards went to a radio-operator, a
plant-operator, a diamond-driller and a
field-instrument man.
The Queen also recognised the work
done by Lady Hudson, wife of the
commissioner (Sir William Hudson), in
assisting visitors to the scheme, and also
the efforts of Sir William’s assistant-
commissioner, Thomas Arthur Lang.
• •
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: The Trust territory
of New Guinea is now awaiting, with
customary resignation, the annual visit
of a U.N. inspection delegation. The
delegates will be Chiping H. C. Kiang
(China), chairman; Albert Claeys
Bouuaert (Belgium); U Tin Maung
(Burma) and Sergio Kociancich (Italy).
The party is expected in Nauru from
March 10 to 14, and in New Guinea and
Australia from March 14 to April 16.
• •
The public is to get some sort of token
say before Ministers and members of the
Victorian Parliament receive their next
pay-rise. The Committee of Inquiry into
Parliamentary Salaries is inviting “mem-
bers of the public and interested organisa-
tions” to submit their views confidentially
in writing by January 23 ; and to say
whether they wish to appear personally,
later, before the committee. This might
be an interesting exercise. But, the
subject being one which commands
unanimity among the Parliamentary
parties, the form prediction can’t be that
salaries will stay put.
• •
“Postcript”: Touching that knight-
hood for ex-telegraph-boy Patrick Mc-
Govern. According to the “Herald,” a
P.M.G. spokesman said: “Messenger-
boys could still rise to the top posts, but
it was more common now for men with
university training to get these positions.”
However, the spokesman didn’t say that
P.M.G. ex-messengers still in the service
and well up the ladder don’t get those
top positions any more because men with
university training are going over
their heads whether the ex-messengers
are competent to till the coveted berths
or not. In short, the seniority-rule within
the public service, once such a hind-
rance to capable young men, still reacts
against them now that they’re capably
old.
• ®
“Stromlo”: One of the more vocal
critics of the growth of the public ser-
vice is ex-Premier, ex-M.H.R., Jack
Lang. In the January 9 issue of his
paper, “Century,” he devoted the front
page to a pungent article on the subject,
with letters l|in. high denouncing the
“Dictatorship of the Bureaucracy,”
basing his arguments on the recent out-
burst by Sir “Billy” Kent Hughes. On
an inside page in the same issue a small
par. remarked that Kent Hughes had
merely created a “minor stir” by his
remarks. Another small par. gave a free
plug to a forthcoming book by Les
Haylen on China, which predicted plenty
of heated debate on its contents. It seems
possible that there’s been a little heated
debate inside the “Century” office.
• •
“Mugga Way”: Sydney Harborside
suburbs are up in arms about tall build-
ings of flats on the waterfront obscuring
the views (which cost a lot in property
values) of homes further back. The posi-
tion seems even worse at Surfers’ Para-
dise, where drilling for the foundations
of a 17-story “accommodation project”
has started. This will include 72 home-
units—if the local council, which appa-
rently has not yet “approved” the 150 ft.
£700,000 job, agrees.
• •
In Queensland the “New States” move-
ment is a lot more active than in N.S.W.,
as a result of the interest of the new
Government. Both the Capricornia and
North Queensland movements are dis-
cussing requests from Premier Nicklin
for their plans on financing their projects
and for future development and adminis-
tration. Both the “new States” want
Federal representation, but are waiving
their moral claims to such State assets as
Parliament House, Queensland Univer-
sity and the Public Library in Brisbane.
• •
“Stromlo”: Defence Minister Athol
Townley has just renewed his licence as
an air-transport pilot qualified to airline
standards. He got a second-class
instrument-rating and a medical clear-
ance. Townley first qualified as a private
pilot and later got his commercial ticket,
both after his election to the Federal
Parliament. One of his hobbies is to
ask to take the controls while a pas-
senger, a habit which induced Civil
Aviation to insist on a commercial licence.
It isn’t that Townley has lined-up another
job in case politics lets him down ; as
Minister for Civil Aviation and now with
the Defence portfolio he feels better
qualified through having some first-hand
knowledge of flying.


Personal
ITEMS
Author Nevil Shute came out of
Royal Melbourne Hospital after a heart-
attack just in time for the arrival of the
last of the stars to make the film-version
of his On the Beach. Melbourne owes
Shute a vote of thanks, if not something
more, for the publicity and business his
book has brought. He was, of course,
well established as a writer long before
he left his then-Socialist England. But his
biggest successes have piled-up since he
settled in Australia. There would be no
buying the world publicity he has con-
ferred on Melbourne by writing On the
Beach from his place at Langwarrin
(Vic.).
• •
Frith, former Bulletin cartoonist,
called in the other day to look at his
old office and at the head of Ned Kelly
(“muddled by Frith,” but actually a
satire of the modellers work, done by
stereotyper Jack Donnelly) that still does
duty as a paperweight, and to talk of
his old friends who sometimes used to
visit him at the rate of 25 a day. Born
in the City of Westminster, Frith
migrated to Australia from England (via
Japan) in the 1920’s and migrated from
Sydney to the Melbourne “Herald.”
• •
“Uramao”: Brother Jerome, a native
of Tipperary, whose teaching career has
been almost entirely in Australia, has
been appointed director of the new
Francis Douglas R.C. Memorial College
at New Plymouth (N.Z.). Until lately
he had been Provincial of the De La
Salle Brothers for Australia and N.Z.
• •
“Corio”: John Bechervaise, who left
on Boxing Day for the Antarctic, is lead-
ing his third polar expedition in less than
10 years. A Geelong (Vic.) Grammar
schoolmaster, he’s already won the
Queen’s Medal for his exploits in the
South. Besides being an explorer, Becher-
vaise is also a writer and art-historian.
His publications include the joint author-
ship of “Anare,” Current Affairs Bulletins
on Antarctic topics, and a book of
Geelong-district verse.
• •
Lloyd Lawson, new programme-
manager of Westralia’s first commercial
television station, TVW7, was born in
Kalgoorlie 35 years ago and first faced
the mike at 17 as a cadet-announcer in
a Perth commercial. His war service
included work with a mobile broadcast-
ing unit in New Guinea, and after
demob, he returned to commercials and
put-in nine years managing a station in
Kalgoorlie. He was later with the team
which covered the Westralian end of
the Royal visit in 1953, before becoming
acting-manager of a commercial in Vic-
toria. As a singer and actor he has had
several A.B.C. contracts, and has played
the lead in musical comedies and stage-
plays.
• •
Dundas Allen, whose biography of his
great-grandfather, Early Georgian, was
favorably reviewed by the Red Page (B.
17/12/’5B), was born in Sydney and
educated at Radley (Eng.) and New
College, Oxford, He went straight from
ALLEN
the university to War I, serving in the
British Army (The King’s Regiment and
Royal Flying Corps) and collecting the
M.C. Back in Sydney, he took up
practice as a solicitor. A kinsman of his,
John Allen, shared the 1957 Sulman
architectural award with Russell Jack.
• •
Promoted to manager of Melbourne’s
Alfred Hospital, G. B. Canham has been
deputy-manager since 1947. Before that
he was assistant-manager at the Austin
Hospital, Heidelberg. He served with
the R.A.A.F. in World War II and has
recently returned from six months’ study
of hospital administration in England
and on the Continent.
• •
Still going strong as a member of the
Conciliation and Arbitration Commis-
sion, Mr. Justice Foster has completed
a half-century at the Bar. Graduating
with honors at Melbourne University
and taking the Supreme Court prize,
Foster practised as a barrister until
1927. when he became a County Court
judge. In 1944 he became an Arbitra-
tion Court judge, and in this capacity
sat on the 40-hours case and the two
basic-wage cases. In 1952 he was diverted
from the second basic-wage hearing to
deal with the turbulent maritime indus-
tries.
• •
Jasper Patrick Norton, who was
awarded the 0.8. E. in the New Year's
honors, comes from the Westralian
south-west, where his properties are at
Capel and Benger. The award was made
for his services to dairying on both the
producing and manufacturing side over
the past 25 years. He was producers
representative on the Dairy Products
Marketing Board for several years, and
has been president of the Dairy Farmers’
Federation of Australia and of the butter-
fat section of the Primary Producers
Association, as well as being a member
of the Commonwealth dairy-costing com-
mittee.
• •
“Ceg”: Mention of Captain Jimmy
Woods, veteran W.A. airline pilot
(B. 3/12/'5B), brings to mind another pioneer
who made his bow to Australian flying in
Western Aostralia way back in 1925. Now
retired to South Yarra (Vic.), Wing-Com-
mander Frank Neale is possibly as well known
to old hands of the flying game as any man in
Australia. An Englishman from Epping
(Essex), he started with the R.A.F. and during
War l was Chief Instructor, No. 4 Schpol
(bomb-dropping and navigation). During
War 11, he commanded the R.A.A.F. Com-
munications-unit, and his job' was to transport
v.i.p.s of the defence-forces, as well as top-
ranking civilians and politicians.
He came to Australia in 1925 and soon
found himself pilot and engineer-in-charge at
Port Hedland (W.A.) under contract to W.A.
t Airways. He made the first tourist trip to
Alice Springs in 1927 and took the first Aus-
tralian-built three-engined aircraft to Darwin
in 1928. He flew the Donald Mackay expedi-
tions on four aerial surveys, covering the desert
from Nullarbor Plain to and from
Alice Springs to Broome and Roy Hill. Later
he operated his own service from Sydney,
covering all Australia, and was private pilot to
Harry McEvoy. Trips included one to China
in 1937 and to Europe and London shortly
after.
Another of his many interesting activities
was inaugurating the air-mail to Tasmania for
Matthews Aviation Pty., Ltd., in the old Cutty
Sark (amphibian). That was in 1930, and the
flight across Bass Strait occupied 3)hrs.
Civilian notables flown ranged from Lord
Stonehaven and Lord Somers to many lesser
but important lights. Passing years resulted
in his inevitable “grounding” in 1946, and it
ever a pilot took unkindly to the operation of
wing-clipping it was Frank Neale.
• •
Through Melbourne recently on leave,
A. R. (“Mick”) Driver is now domiciled
in Geneva and living the cosmopolitan
life of an international civil servant with-
out looking or sounding any less Aus-
tralian. The Northern Territory seems to
put some sort of mark for keeps on most
people who live there, and Driver was
Administrator for five years from 1946.
These days he’s operational head of
I.C.E.M. —the Inter-governmental Com-
mittee for European Migration, which
has found new countries for 700,000
people. Driver, still keen on populating


the Territory, as well as on migration,
brings back the warning that the right
sort of migrant isn’t now falling over
himself to come here —he has to be
sought after.
• •
“Pelga”: General Rafiq Arif, the
former Iraqi chief-of-staff whose execu-
tion has been reported, was a student at
Quetta staff-college in 1935-36, when
Monty was chief-instructor there. Quiet,
charming and altogether a good sort
of man, he was liked by everyone. He
had always taken care not to become too
deeply involved in politics—but I suppose
his Western way of thought was too
obvious.
• •
“Joanne”: Daniel Witheriff, Under-
secretary of the N.S.W. Department of
Labor and Industry, is calling it a day
after 48 years in the department. He’s
held the posts of Prices Commissioner
and Director of Social Services and was
Federal Deputy Director of Manpower,
N.S.W., during the last war.
• . •
Pied Piper of St. George (Sydney)
Police Boys’ Club, Sgt. Joe Hall was
sketched while in charge of a vaudeville-
show. Hall watched from the wings as
his young troupers ran through the
vaudeville gamut to entertain the Narra-
been War Veteran’s Home. St. George
Police Boys’ Club has been Hall’s special
care since he launched it with five boys.
He now has about 50.
Police boys’ clubs started in N.S.W.
when, in 1936, former Commissioner
McKay, alarmed at delinquency, tossed
the idea to Governor McKell. McKay
promised clubs for athletic and cultural
education. From the kick-off Hall in-
cluded girls, and carried out the cultural
policy with a musical-drama group, helped
by his musical wife. The sergeant, who
spent five years as a police cadet, has
been in the Force for 14 years.
HALL
Gordon Whitworth, an art-teacher at
the Brunswick (Vic.) Technical School
will represent the Australian Teaching
Federation at the world conference of
teachers in Washington on July 31. Whit-
worth, a former president of the federa-
tion, has been teaching 24 of his 44
years. F. H. Davis, a South Australian
teacher from Morphettville Park, as new
president of the federation, will repre-
sent it on Unesco.
• •
Geoff Sawer, Professor of Law at the
National University, Canberra, is on his
way to Germany to have a look at the
German problem, particularly its legal
aspects. Sawer, one of the most listened-
to of national radio-commentators, came
through Melbourne University and pre-
war was on a panel of W.E.A. lecturers.
• «
“Uramao”: After 36 years on the
“N.Z. Herald” (the last seven as editor),
H. G. Bell is calling it a day. A member
of the newspaper family of Ashburton,
he first worked on the “Ashburton
Guardian.” Joining the staff of the
“Herald,” he has remained loyal to it,
except for a term as associate-editor of
the Wellington “Dominion.” Rejoining
the “Herald,” he became associate-
editor, and nine years later was appointed
editor in succession to Sir Leslie Munro,
who went to Washington as N.Z.
Ambassador and made his name in inter-
national politics. His successor as editor
of the “N.Z. Herald” is O. S. Hintz,
associate-editor since 1952. Hintz joined
the “Herald” as a cadet-reporter in 1925
and has been there ever since.
• •
“Ailsey”: President of the Australian
Institute of Mining and Metallurgy,
C. G. L. Clark was a councillor for W.A.
from 1954-58 and vice-president last
year. He was educated at Launceston
Church of England Grammar School and
won degrees at the Universities of Tas-
mania and Melbourne. In War I he
won the M.C.; in War II he was Deputy-
Controller of Mineral Production for the
Commonwealth.
• •
Awarded the Distinguished Flying
Cross for services in Malaya, Wing-
Commander K. V. Robertson has now
taken-over the Base Squadron at Point
Cook (Vic.). He won the decoration for
operations between January, 1956, and
July, 1958, when he commanded No.
1 Squadron of the R.A.A.F.
• •
Seven Nuffield Foundation travelling-
fellowships have been awarded to Aus-
tralians: Dr. D. J. Deller, of Sydney,
and Dr. J. V. Hurley, of Melbourne
(medicine); A. V. Everitt, of Sydney,
P. G. Martin, of Adelaide, G. H. Pack-
ham, of Sydney, and R. St. Clair
Johnson and J. R. Poynton, both of
Melbourne (natural sciences).
T. G. H. JONES, D.Sc., Professor of
Chemistry at the University of Queens-
land and, among other things, a member
of the Senate for five successive terms.
Born at Owens Gap, Scone (N.S.W.), he
graduated from Sydney University with
first-class honors and medals for chemis-
try and mathematics, and joined Queens-
land University staff in 1915.
Into the Silence:
Bendigo paid proper tribute to Sir George
Lansell, industrialist, newspaper-owner, soldier,
and politician (M.L.C., Vic., 1928-52) when
his funeral procession was halted at the ceno-
taph he gave the city. Sir George, wounded
as a captain in France with the 38th battalion
that he afterwards commanded, was a helpful
power in the R.S.L. Three-hundred ex-service-
men formed a guard-of-honor at the cemetery.
His almost lifelong association with Bendigo
came to an end at Denderah, his home there.
In Melbourne, at 76, the Rev. Spencer
Churchward, Methodist supernumerary minister
and a specialist in languages and theology.
A graduate of Adelaide University and Queen’s
College, Melbourne, he compiled a Samoan
grammar after seven years in the Western
Samoa field. He also served the church in
Tasmania and various Victorian country
circuits.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 96, Sir Thomas
Anderson Hunter, New Zealand’s first Director
of Dental Hygiene. He formed the first Army
dental corps when World War I broke out,
went overseas with the N.Z.E.F., becoming
director of dental services and collecting a
C.B.E. In 1947 he was made a K.B.E. in
recognition of his service to dental science.
At Christchurch (N.Z.), at 76, P. H. Powell,
Professor of Electrical Engineering at Canter-
bury University college for 24 years until his
retirement 11 years ago. Born at Liverpool
(Eng.), he was a Master of Science at Victoria
Uni. (Eng.) and Master of Engineering at
Liverpool Uni.
In Perth, at 59, Henry Norman Braithwaite.
Director of Parks and Gardens for Perth City
Council for more than 30 years. A B.Sc. of
the Westralian University, he was responsible
for the floral decoration of Perth during the
Royal visit in 1956.
In Perth, at 82, Dr. John Joseph Holland,
formerly of Windsor (N.S.W.), who practised
in Kanowna in 1907 and Katanning, 1910,
before settling in Perth, where he was honorary
gynaecologist of the Royal Perth Hospital for
24 years. He was one of the founders of the
Flying Doctor Service (W.A.) and also helped
to found the Westralian University’s anatomy-
school.


ABORIGINALITIES
Tleplying to an inquiry regarding
falconry, The Bulletin’s Service
Department gave a spot of information
on the sport in Britain and added that
“there is an article on falconry in the
Encyclopedia Britannica.” There is also
a discussion of the subject much closer
to home—in the new edition of the Aus-
tralian Encyclopedia.
Maybe the local contribution wasn't
expected, but in fact there have been
numbers of interesting experiments with
falconry in this country. David Fleay,
in particular, functioning in Victoria
during the 1930’5, practised the sport
successfully, not only through the
medium ot the classic bird—the widely-
spread peregrine-falcon but with the
big wedgetailed eagle and the white
goshawk as well. The quarry in each
case was the rabbit, but on one occasion
Fleay's wedgetail by - passed small -game
and snatched-up a fair-sized wallaby. Most
picturesque of the batch was the goshawk
—a handsome figure in snowy plumage,
black beak and talons, and red eyes,
“All visitors ashore!”
rounded-off with plumed hood and bells
in the finery of an ancient art.
More recently Eric West, a resident
of the Murray River district of Tocumwal
(N.S.W.), has been reported to have
attained some success as a falconer, also
through the medium of eagles and
peregrines. And now, I gather, three 17-
year-old lads in the Armidale area
(N.S.W.) have made themselves local
pioneers in the business in collaboration
with goshawks.
A.H.C.
“Sevenelms”: After planing and care-
fully examining a piece of 50-year-old
fence-post I decided it was mahogany-
gum. Just for confirmation I gave it to
the C.5.1.R.0. identification section, and
a chit of a girl with a magnifying-glass
came-up with the absolute answer in
minutes flat—red-stringybark!
“Rickee”: Our head stockman, who
claimed Debrettage and wore a huge
crested signet-ring to prove it, lost the
ring when mixing mash for a sick cow.
He bailed the beast up, assuring us she
would eject it when chewing her cud.
She did.
“Myzantha”: In Australia we have a
batch of native birds known as miners,
and an introduced species (not related
to the miners) termed myna, or mynah,
or minah. There’s no mystery about the
word “myna”—it’s Hindustani —but I’m
puzzled to account for “miner.” Is it
merely a corruption of “myna” or is
there a sounder origin? Anyway, it
doesn't appear to derive from goldfields
associations, for both the noisy miner
(soldier-bird) and the yellow-throated
miner were labelled before the rushes
began.
* * * *
“Quartercut”: The dawn is nicely
heralded by the carolling of magpies, the
risible chorus of kookaburras and black-
birds diligently cracking snails on the
front steps. None of these items disturbs
my last hour of bed. Spare me, how-
ever, that cacophony involved when the
scolding parental magpie is instructing
its whingeing young to dig worms on my
front lawn.
* * * *
“Jesmondene” : January ploughing was
turning-up few worms, but three days
in a row I had a constant mate in one
adolescent kookaburra. Then at noon
three delinquent magpies chivvied him
home rudely. After lunch he was back —
with four pals—and a stranger might well
have thought there were just no magpies
in this part of Victoria.
* * * *
“Bymoresby”: Medical training in
Papua-New Guinea is going ahead, with
1400 natives now receiving instruction
in various categories, from medical
orderly to assistant medical practitioner.
The acting assistant-director of medical
training, Dr. E. J. Wright, says the pro-
gress has been so rapid that there should
soon be fully-qualified native doctors.
The higher medical training is now done
at Suva, but with the establishment of
the Papuan Medical College all training
will be done in the Territory.
* * * *
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: Destruction of New
Guinea birds has been worrying the
Administration for some time, and
Administrator Don Cleland has now
warned that future cases will be followed
by prosecution. In particular, slaughter
of birds-ot'-paradise and trading in their
plumes has been intensified, and the
spectacular Goura pigeons are being
exterminated. Cleland says there are dis-
turbing reports that some Europeans have
taken part in plume-trading with native
people, and has pointed-out that, fauna
being common property, the aid of the
whole community is needed to ensure
that the aesthetic and economic benefits
from it are conserved for future genera-
tions.
* * * *
“Sack”: Nature does some shocking
things to one of her creatures in order
to perpetuate the species of another. For
instance, she equips the botfly with the
instinct to lay its eggs on the neck, mane
or head of the equine victim. Then she
causes the whitish-cream dots to itch the
horse’s skin. If the itch were on any other
part of the body the sufferer would
scratch against a fence or tree, and the
eggs would almost certainly fall. Itchy
about the head, however, a grazing horse
rubs the irritated part against a foreleg




“Good Lord — where’s the punch?”
—and unwittingly knocks the eggs down
into the grass it is eating. An animal
feeding at a manger is obviously in even
greater danger, since the eggs are scraped-
off into the feed. The swallowed eggs
hatch into worms, and then only swift
diagnosis and an expert vet. can hope to
save the victim. If there is a bright spot
in the picture it lies in the fact that the
eggs can be killed if they are noticed
before they are swallowed ; remedy is
the bushman’s cure-all —“a drop o’
kerosene.”
* * * *
“Amdee”: Seagulls fly in clockwise
direction when circling the shoals of small
fish that abound in Barrier Reef waters
at this time of the year, when the winds
vary from n. to n.-e. If there is a reason
for this invariable procedure I’d like
someone to trot it out.
* * * *
“Halque”: Our pet dove, which comes
onto the veranda for daily cheese titbits,
is nesting in the plum-tree and has
developed a fad for a daily ride on the
swivel-bar of our old-type clothesline.
As soon as anyone approaches the line
there is a whirr of wings and there she
is waiting on the bar. We give the lady
a few swings, then back she goes to the
nest. We put it down to an urge to air
the body without self-effort.
* * * *
“Kinta”: A new heat-controlled glass-
house to be erected in Canberra for the
entomology division of C.5.1.R.0., at a
cost of £15,000, will greatly assist research
into insect-life and the eventual eradica-
tion of garden-pests. The
glasshouse will have panel-
heating, evaporative cooling
and a compressed-air system
so that optimum temperatures
can be constantly maintained,
unlike normal glasshouses,
which become too hot in the
summer and too cold in the
winter for most insects. Re-
search is concerned particu-
larly with the eradication of
the cabbage-moth and the
vegetable-weevil.
* * *
“Doric": I left my garbage-
tin inside the front fence,
according to our council by-
laws. It was passed-over by
the collector, and when I re-
monstrated with him he said,
“Yer shoulda put it outside,
mate.” I phoned the council
and was told that inside was
the correct place. Told the
collector of this by-law and
he replied, “Our rules is that
they’ve gotta be left outside,
mate.” So I wrote to the
town clerk. That was two
months ago, and I’ve had no
reply, so I’ve been putting it outside
pending a decision. But somehow I
think the garbage-man has won, by-law
or no by-law.
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: Those who yearn for
pet crocodiles can have 'em! In Borneo
1 was given a 12-incher and fed it for
six months to 19in. Its table-manners
were awful. It hissed horribly at my
approach, wolfed its meat and unendingly
tried to bite-off my hand that fed it.
Harry Keith (Agnes Newton’s husband)
swapped me a gibbon for it because he
thought the 14in. croc, he had in his
lily-pond might be lonely. He sent his
“boy” to collect my croc., with in-
structions that the introduction was
to await Master’s lunch-time chaperonage.
But it got tipped into the pool at 1 p.m.
Harry arrived at 1.15 to find my little
pet had eaten his little pet, bar the tail.
Tn the bright light of a full moon I
saw an owl-fledgling • fall to the
ground from the hollow limb of a tall
jarrah. Presently, Ma and Pa swooped
down and landed beside the helpless off-
spring. Their strong beaks grasping a
wing each, they rose simultaneously and
carried the precious burden back to the
nest.—“Sandgroper.”
“You irresponsible idiot —NEVER disturb me with the telephone when
I'm calming a patient!”
THE MAN FROM TUMBARUMBA
He asked for work at muster-time,
We tried him as a rider;
We tried him out as rouseabout
And as the cook’s offsider.
He had sailed the seven seas
And worked up in Alaska,
He’d been in every Western State
From Texas to Nebraska.
Chorus
He said he’d shorn a sheep or two
And cut a bit of lumber
And waged war on the kangaroo
At Tumba-b rumba.
We had him in the shearing-shed,
We put him on the stacker;
We tried him digging rabbits out,
He wasn’t worth a cracker,
tie had a shop in Singapore,
He owned a pearling lugger;
He was a champ at baccarat,
Australian Rules and Rugger.
He never showed his aptitude
On work he was allotted.
But showed his skill upon the drinks
A tul cigarettes he hotted.
He had climbed the Matterhorn,
He’d been a union-leader,
And years ago in Adelaide
He was a pigeon-breeder.
We had him cutting fencing posts
We tried to find his caper
Until that happy pay-day when
He got his piece of paper.
I wonder what he’s doing now —
Perhaps back on the lumber,
Or shooting kanga-b -roos
At Tumba-b rumba.
vic.
J. WOLFE.


Time Means Tucker
By H. P. (“DUKE”) TRITTON
Illustrations chiefly from contemporary issues of The Bulletin.
Both o£ them 19-year-olds, the writer and his mate Dutchy have set out from
Sydney in 1905 on a breezily adventurous wander about the N.S.W. outback,
learning to become shearers, doing fencing contracts and having a go at gold-
digging, singing and taking the hat round in the towns, boxing in show-booths,
meeting picturesque characters, and generally getting to know the bush and bush
folk, and taking life as they find it. They have gone by boat to Newcastle, headed
west from there, travelled the country with George Ruenalf’s boxing-show, tramped
to shearing jobs at big and small stations, and have just had a go at gold-digging
on the old Gulgong goldfields.
We rolled our drums, and
took to the track once
more. Two days late"'
we reached Welling-
ton. We thought we
could make a few bob singing,
but Wellington was noted for
a very unpleasant copper. We
had gathered a nice crowd, and
everything looked rosy, when
he came up and gave us an
hour to get out of town. The
crowd booed him, but we,
knowing we would take the rap
if a brawl started, gave it away.
Parkes was our next town.
A nice little town, with tree-
lined streets and a general
appearance of neatness. It, like
Gulgong, had been a great
goldfield. Our financial posi-
tion was, as my mate put it,
“Not broke, but badly bent.”
He, being a young man of
many ideas, suggested we inter-
view the sergeant of police and
see if we could get permission
to busk in the streets.
At the police-station the
sergeant listened attentively to
our story, looked through a
book, then said, “Actually,
there is no law against singing
in the streets, but if you take
the hat round it is classed as
begging, which is an offence. I
think if you put a hat on the
ground, and people care to put
money in it, that would be in
order. However, it lays to my
discretion to a certain extent,
so if I think your singing is
worth while I’ll give you the
nod, and you can take the hat
round.”
We agreed that his offer was
very fair, and for two hours
we sang and recited, mainly
requests, till we could do no
more. The people of Parkes
gave generously, and the
sergeant, in plaia clothes, con-
tributed his share. We reckoned
that the police on the whole
were not bad chaps. Where we
met one tough one, we usually
met half-a-dozen good ones.
TJogan Gate was a village of
about 20 houses, including
two pubs. We didn’t find any
gate, though we had often
heard of the man who hung
Bogan Gate. Possibly the same
bloke who dug the Darling
River.
Condobolin, on the Lachlan,
was a fair town, and, with
police permission, we had a
nice collection. From there
we went up through Nymagee
and Mount Boppy to Cobar.
Cobar, though a big town,
seemed overshadowed by the
huge mullock-heaps of the
coppermines. The mines were
on the decline, as the lodes
were cutting-out, and many of
the miners were idle. The
general opinion among the
men was that the mines
had been worked badly.
“Murdered,” said one old
Cornishman. “The share-
holders, mostly English, who
had never seen the mines, were
hungry for quick profits, and
ignored the low-grade ore,
insisting that only ihe rich
leads be worked. Had they
taken the low-grade with the
high, Cobar would have been
good for a hundred years.”
The history of mining
throughout Australia seems to
prove this theory to be true.
“Rip the guts out, and damn
the future,” was the slogan for
most of the mines in those days.
Again the policemen were
friendly, and we had two suc-
cessful nights in Cobar. Then,
having an urge to travel the
real outback and visit some
of the stations made famous
during the shearing strikes, we
made for Louth, on the Darl-
ing. Here we got a job with
a drover, taking a mob of
sheep to Tilpa, 50 miles down.
This took us past Winbar
and Compadore. The pub at
Compadore had been the
scene of many fights during
the strikes, so we went there
and made a night of it, yarn-
ing and singing. I have often
regretted being too young at
that time to realise the value
those stories would be to the
historians of today. It is only
those I have heard again, years
after, that I have been able to
recall to my mind.
After delivering the sheep at
Tilpa, Tommy Vincent, our
boss, picked-up another mob
to take to Dunlop, on the
western side •of the river. It
was only a two-day trip, but
he said he expected to get a
lot more work, and as we got
on well with him he asked
us to go with him.
At Dunlop I had a look
round the famous shed
where shearing-machines were
first used in full-scale shearing.
The shearers had refused to
use them at first, but gradually
accepted the “newfangled
things, which are going to put
a lot of men out of work.”
Also, a lot of time was being
lost by the endless-rope (the
means of delivering power to
the machines) stretching and
breaking. One man, an old
sailor, had been constantly
employed to splice the rope.
When the shaft-pulley and
friction-wheels were devised,
the shearers were satisfied the
machines had come to stay.
(I met the old sailor, whose
only name I heard was “Sailor
Jack.” After a few rums he
boasted that he had earned
more money than the ringer at
Dunlop. He got seven-and-six
for each splice, and to be sure
of plenty of splices he would
cut a strand of the driving-
rope half-through. Two or
three hours later Jack’s services
would be in demand again,
while a mob of cursing shearers
stood at their pens, holding
half-shorn sheep, or sometimes
finishing-off with blades. I re-
marked to Jack that he was
lucky not to be caught at his
trick. He laughed and replied,
“I’d have finished-up in the
Darling with a coupler dozen
machines tied round me neck.”)
From Dunlop we took 3000
wethers to Wanaaring, on the
Paroo River. Wanaaring had
been a big camp during the
strike. Nocoleche shed, 10
miles south of the town, had
shorn with non-union shearers,
and as a result much fighting
had ensued. Several attempts
to burn the shed had been
made, one attempt almost suc-
ceeding.
HTommy Vincent had no more
A droving, so we were on the
track again. After those few
weeks in the saddle we found
padding the hoof a bit tough,
but covered the 60 miles to
Hungerford in three days.
Henry Lawson mentions
Hungerford as a town “with
a rabbitproof fence, and
rabbits on both sides.” I agree
with Henry that the only
feature Hungerford is noted for
is the fact that it is situated
on the boundary-fence between
New South Wales and Queens-
land. But to me Hungerford
always remains clearly fixed in
my memory as the place where
I first met the Reverend Feet-
ham, afterwards the Bishop of
Carpentaria.
Feetham was one of a group
of young men who had formed
a society known as the Bush
Brothers, with headquarters at
Dubbo. They went hundreds
(Continued on page 34)


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. URQUHART, M. D. PASSMORE, K. W. A. BRIDGES
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
25 O’CONNELL STREET
SYDNEY
Telephone
BW 8171 (3 lines)
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECELEX,” Sydney
J. T. HARRY & DIXON
(Eric E. Dixon, Member of Sydney Stoek Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
113 Pitt St. f
Sydney
Telephone: BL 1987
Tel. Add.: “Harry Stock Exchange,” Sydney
Business, Rollery, Etc.
WOOL DOWN, SHARES UP
Tn a Sydney newspaper last
week readers were greeted
by headlines on.facing pages:
“Sharemarket Moves Forward
Again,” and “Wool Cheque
Drops By £64 Million.”
The drop in the wool-cheque
was in respect of the five
months to November 30.
Exports in that period brought
in £106.4 million, compared
with £170.5 million in the
corresponding period of the
previous year.
The opening sales for 1959
have been barely steady
at the closing prices for 1958.
The puzzle of soaring share
prices in the face of low wool
receipts and an increasing
balance-of-payments deficit is
one of the chief items of
financial conversation and eco-
nomic discussion these days.
It is as striking as the miser-
ably low yields accepted from
front-line industrial equities in
comparison with the juicy
interest offered by a variety
of companies on fixed-interest
securities and convertible notes.
These companies are not
confined to hire-purchase con-
cerns. Recently we have seen
Bradford Cotton, Felt and
Textiles and Yarra Falls offer-
ing 8 p.c. interest on un-
secured notes ; and there have
been many others.
The Causes
The exceptionally keen
support for industrial equity
shares is based on a number
of factors.
Firstly, there is the infla-
tionary background of the
post-war period which has now
established a fairly set pattern
in the public mind, though it
took a long while to do so
during the early years of infla-
tion.
Secondly, there is the picture
of unfolding industrial develop-
ment following hesitation and
frustration for at least 10 years
after the war. There is a feel-
ing that industrial investment,
which has not yet really “paid-
off” in terms of income from
the industrial shares them-
selves, may be about to “pay-
off” within the next few years.
Thirdly, there are a variety
of new technical factors enter-
ing into investment which did
not exist previously. Among
these are the activities of the
“Cot a dinkum fiver, Bill?”
unit-trusts, which are bringing
in increasing millions of money
from small investors hitherto
not accustomed to deal in
Stock Exchange securities.
Then there are the
staff-superannuation funds,
encouraged by increased com-
pany-taxation allowances for
superannuation purposes, now
buying more and more
industrial equities. Life-offices,
too, have been acquiring
ordinary shares as an offset
to inflation and (in earlier
years) a sweetener to the low
interest-rates then offered on
fixed-interest securities.
Among these technical
factors has been another
forceful one —the taxation
advantages in a company
borrowing on fixed-interest
securities instead of offering
new share-capital to its own
shareholders. This has had the
effect of creating a scrip-
shortage, especially when com-
bined with the other technical
factors already described. Ex-
pansion of production facilities
by this method of finajice in
itself is a “bull” factor in the
sharemarket —suggesting as it
does that benefits to share-
holders are only being deferred
by these financial methods and
that when the increased pro-
ductivity resulting from the
outlay of note-issue finance
begins to show up in the
p.-and-l. account the notes
themselves may be replaced by
new issues of share-capital.
Fourthly, a strong “bull”
factor in the market has been
the long and strong rise that
has already taken place over
the past seven years, providing
the adroit market operator with
far more income than the
dividends received from the
shares themselves.
This fourth factor is full of
traps for the uninitiated
speculator, seeing that the
“increment” in the market-
prices of shares, where realised
by selling shares, has come so
far out of the pockets of
other investors, and not so
much from the investments
themselves. To this extent
investors are living on other
investors and on hopes for the
future.
The Unit-trust Switch
A noteworthy fact, in the
face of this strong sharemarket,
has been the. pause by unit-
trusts themselves in their
investment in front-rank
stocks showing a low yield in
interest. Leading unit-trusts
are now swinging-away, almost
as a body, from an exclusively
ordinary-share portfolio and
offering a “balanced fund” of
ordinaries and fixed-interest
securities in order to be able
to offer the investor a return
in keeping with those offered
in previous trusts.
It has become obvious that
if the underlying securities in
a trust sold-off initially at £1 a
unit to yield 6 p.c. but now
valued, on a market basis, at
265. a unit, the yield now (in
the absence of any div.-
increases) is only 4.6 p.c.
In other words, a trust with
the same underlying securities
now floating could only offer
4.6 p.c., which would not be
attractive to the average
investor. Hence the swing to
some 6 p.c., 7 p.c. and 8 p.c.
fixed-interest securities in
order to offset the low yields
offering from B.H.P. (3.3
p.c.), Woolworths (2.9 p.c.),
1.C.1.A.N.Z. (3 p.c.), Burns
Philp (3.3 p.c.), and so on.
U.S.A., Too
A buoyant industrial share-
market is not, at the moment,
confined to Australia. In the
United States prospects of
“what is going to happen in the
1960’5,” plus the fact that
market increment already
gained is subject to a tax of
25 p.c. if realised in cash by
the successful investors, plus
again the favoring of debt-
finance by companies (as in
Australia, and for the same
reasons) rather than new share-
issues, which has tended to
create a scrip - shortage in
desirable stocks all these
factors have tended to make
present investors hang on to
their shares and to compel
new investors to pay higher
prices in order to buy-in.
The Traps
In Australia it seems, as
has been claimed in these pages
for a year or more, that the
top-line equity-shares are too
high by far for the short-term


investor, and could be a
danger if he cannot afford to
hold (in the event of market
reverses) for several years.
Institutional investors, such
as superannuation funds, life-
offices, insurance-offices and
unit-trusts, usually have a long-
term investment policy in
which holding for 10, 20 or
more years is visualised, and
in which case the highly-priced
key stocks may be fully reward-
ing over the long term.
But acceptance of a 3 p.c.
yield from almost any stock
today is speculating on the
market rather than investing,
regardless of the merit of the
stock itself.
The personal investor should
remember that. The company
he is choosing as an invest-
ment may be as solid as a rock,
but the market he is dabbling
in may not be.
Sharemarket conditions
throughout the world are to-
day complex and peculiar. One
thing which cannot be counted
on (in Australia, particularly
this year) is a continuation of
“market increment” while
yields from top stocks are down
as low as 2\ p.c. to 4 p.c. During
the next six months taxation
assessments will have to be
met, and in the case of
graziers provisional tax could
be a stunner, if relief is not
obtained. Further, the problem
of low export prices and the
balance-of-payments may come
right into the hip-pocket.
Kraft Takeover Offer
An offer of one National
Dairy Products (U.S.A.)
$5 share in exchange for every
Kraft Holdings, Ltd. (Aus-
tralia), share of £1 each hasn’t
yet been unanimously approved
by Kraft shareholders, as it has
been by Kraft directors.
The offer is conditional upon
acceptance by holders of not
less than 90 p.c. of the 530,827
Kraft ords. not already owned
by National Dairy Products
(its present interest is 68 p.c.).
Kraft, which has done
famously as a trading concern
in Australia these past few
years (consolidated earnings
for 1957-58 represented 44 p.c.
on ord. capital, excluding taxa-
tion overprovision, compared
with 46.6 p.c. and 38 p.c. in the
two preceding years), has
passed on only crumbs in the
way of ord. dividends—s p.c.
for many years, then 1\ p.c.,
1\ p.c. and 10 p.c. over the
three years to June 30, 1958.
With such dividend frugality
it has amassed large reserves
retained profits totalled
£3,551,193 at June 30 last,
against an ord. capital of
£1,642,436, which had the sup-
port of £250,000 of 5 p.c.
redeemable pref. money.
Visible reserves were equal
to 435. sd. per £1 ord. share,
making net tangibles behind
the ords. visibly 635. sd. at
June 30, 1958.
Fixed assets appear in the
books at cost, less depreciation.
There is every indication that
profits and assets are, and have
been, conservatively stated.
Kraft shares have recently
been selling in Melbourne and
Sydney at 755. On the
basis of $49,875 (New York
Stock Exchange) for each
National Dairy $5 share, the
takeover offer is equal to
88s. 6d. (Aust.) for each
Kraft share (exchange at
$2.25 to the £A).
In view of the faraway
nature of the takeover com-
pany and the lack of precise
knowledge in this country (at
the weekend) of its finances
and earning-power, the keep-
ing of the offer open to
February 23 is no more than
a fair condition of the over-
ture.
An interim div. at the rate
of 15 p.c. p.a. will be paid by
Kraft on March 10.
In view of the takeover bid,
this belated increase in the
dividend is bound to arouse
discussion among shareholders
who counted on Kraft becom-
ing a profitable holding on its
own distribution of earnings
regardless of takeover offers.
State H.-p. Legislation
A greement to draw-up a
uniform hire - purchase
code was reached by State
Ministers and Federal repre-
sentatives meeting in Sydney
last week. But unanimity
could not be attained in respect
of maximum interest-charges.
Matters in respect of which
agreement was reached in-
cluded insurance ; elimination
of secret commissions; con-
ditions in respect of misrepre-
sentation, particularly in
respect of second-hand goods ;
possible rebates in the case of
repossession; minimum de-
posits ; buyers of h.-p. goods
to be adequately informed of
their obligations under h.-p.
contracts.
Bolte, Premier of Victoria,
said the proposals of the con-
ference were almost based on
the legislation he had already
submitted in Victoria. This
legislation, which had been
rejected by the Victorian
Faith in the
Future
We have been told with authority on several
occasions lately that within ten years the national
income from minerals may exceed the wool cheque.
The telling should not cause a thinking
Australian to register deep surprise; for we are
at the edge of a mineral expansion which, I believe,
will produce results beyond our now highest hopes.
There are a few interesting points to consider
in background to what is taking place in the
relative earning-power of our great industries.
Long dependence on wool has tended to make
us regard it as the “singular” in basic prosperity;
whereas our main sources of economic strength
must be “plural,” in the sense that they should be
diversely spread.
Generations have grown up who have known
only as history the dramatic discoveries of gold
and base metals in that fifty-year period which
ended in the 1890’s. We had become passive to
the idea that very much more could be won for
the mining.
This has been changed by the realisation that
Northern Australia contains unmeasured wealth
to supplement that which has been won by bold
and brilliant mining ventures in the south.
Mount Isa is embarked upon its long-term
programme of expansion in copper, lead and zinc.
Mary Kathleen uranium field is in production ahead
of schedule. Organisation is advanced for the
working of the huge bauxite deposits in Cape
York Peninsula.
To state these facts —to point to the fresh
records being set in the volume of Australia’s
mineral production even now, before some
of the great new fields are under way—is to
acknowledge all that this entails in faith and effort
and investment.
The real rewards of this awakening are to
come. World metal prices will recover. Export
markets have to be won.
The important thing is that we have the
minerals in treasure. And their confident
development is one of the duties we owe to
Australia now as it advances into a stable and
balanced future.
H. Hastings Deening


Upper House, would be re-
submitted in March.
Aluminium Takeover
[From “Old Openont”]
"O eynolds Metal Corpora-
tjon of America not only
now controls a very large slice
of Britain’s general ferrous and
non - ferrous tube - production,
but has the controlling-interest
in the British Aluminium
Company, the U.K.’s only
aluminium-producing concern.
The last balance-sheet of
this company shows book
assets of £37 million on a paid-
up capital of £9 million.
At first glance surface indi-
cations do not disclose any
valid reason for the takeover,
nor for the extraordinary
measures taken by Reynolds
in buying shares to get control.
Close examination, however,
reveals that the B.A. Co. had
become vulnerable.
The policy through the years
was to tie ingot-production to
secondary metal - processing
sales. There was to be no
surplus virgin metal for any
possible processing competitor.
The sudden upward surge in
the demand for aluminium
alloys, rod, sheet, extrusions
and the like forced the expan-
sion of this side of the business
—the most profitable side —
up to a yearly output of
80,000 tons while the smelter-
capacity remained at 37,000
tons. Canadian ingot bridged
the gap—on dollars.
The co. had certainly
realised the need for additional
reduction capacity, and had
several investigational teams in
the field at the time. The
researches were, however, too
varied, too many and too
leisurely. Their competitors
jumped in and secured bauxite
deposits and developed power-
potential while the B.A. was
considering whether a par-
ticular proposition required
fellows with bowler-hats or a
team of cloth-caps.
Their ultra - conservatism
defeated them in the end.
Reynolds fell into another
type of trap. With their con-
temporary giants they ex-
panded ingot-production to a
stage of serious oversupply.
The urgent need to find new
markets led Reynolds to look
to the U.K. The B.A. Co.,
in trouble with ingot shortage
and with their spare cash tied-
up in too many non-earning
exploratory projects, looked a
sitter for some quiet share-
acquisition. When the B.A.
did realise what was pulsating
their sharemarket they negoti-
ated a deal with Aluminium
Company of America by which
this co. would acquire one-
third interest by buying the
balance of the unissued shares
— 4\ million —at 60s. The B.A.
directors had lost control
before the deal could be
ratified.
Reynolds get some nice
pickings from the acquisi-
tion. The secondary side of
the business in U.K. has a
yearly turnover of £stg36
million. They come in for a
quarter-share in the 80,000-
ton ingot plant about to come
into production at Baie
Comeau in Canada. In Aus-
tralia they’ll step into Austra-
luco, the big aluminium-pro-
cessing firm. They will have
an equal share with Consoli-
dated Zinc in Comalco, the
company formed to develop
the Weipa field. They’ll reap
the benefits, if any, of the
exploratory work in New
Guinea. South African
interests look nebulous. at
present, but as Reynolds
require four-million tons of
bauxite each year they will
certainly follow-up any worth-
while holdings. Their present
source of supply is Jamaica,
where, in company with
Kaiser and Alcan, they are
really moving the ore.
This ore appears to be
identical with the Weipa
bauxite. It is not quite as
rich as the Malayan ore treated
at Bell Bay. Under the terms
of the B.A. agreement, Rey-
nolds may come in on the tail-
end of the 15-year period and
be required to give technical
advice to Bell Bay. That
would be interesting.
It is of little value to con-
jecture at this stage on the
future of the industry in Aus-
tralia. Costs have risen to a
degree which now makes any-
thing under an 80,000-ton
ingot-production plant un-
profitable. If, however, you
combine secondary processing
with mining, treatment, and
smelting, a 30,000-ton plant
would be good business. The
South Pacific zone could use
50,000 tons a year on present
demand.
Weipa appears to be a vast
and most valuable deposit. The
fact that we own it is a jolly
good bargaining-point with
which to open negotiations.
Holden’s Sydney Plans
"Extensions to General
■*“' Motors-Holden’s plant at
Pagewood, which will allow
Holden production in N.S.W.
to be increased about 25 p.c.,
will be completed in February
at a cost exceeding £BOO,OOO.
The extension, designed by
architects Stephenson and
Turner, covfers more than
115,000 square-feet and com-
prises five bays. Careful pre-
planning will enable the job
to be finished within a 21-week
building schedule.
Site-preparation was. started
before tenders were accepted
for the new building, and 60-
ton Frankipiles were sunk for
column - foundations. These
were necessary because of the
unstable nature of the ground,
and were used instead of the
concrete-pad foundations of
the previous buildings.
Melbourne Shopping
/”|ne of the more agreeable
things about life in Mel-
bourne these days is the steady
transformation of the shopping-
centres notably of, among
other suburbs, Toorak and
South Yarra. It’s hard to keep
pace with the development of
what had been humdrum shops,
basically unchanged for de-
cades, into bright and inviting
places. Along with this has
come the quick growth of Con-
tinental-type restaurants to
offer variety and some illusion
of worldliness where, before,
only a few strictly-routine
eating-houses existed. This
trend has put new enticements
into suburban shopping and
eating.
Of course, business isn’t
good all along the line. The
spacious, comfortable Village
theatre quietly folded-up on
New Year’s Eve, leaving 5.E.2
without a cinema of its own.
There had been increasingly
thin houses for some time. TV
no doubt had a hand in it;
but the theatre lay on the road
to a couple of drive-ins. And,
while cars are still parked stiff
about the Village theatre every
night, their occupants are not
at the films —they are dining
or supping late at one or other
of the Italian restaurants, or
they are window-shopping.
Roads and Money
A lderman R. S. Luke, presi-
dent of the Australian
Council of Local-government
Associations (with the Can-
berra conference of Feb. 12
in mind), is against any Com-
monwealth organisation
taking-over planning of Aus-
tralian roads. State and 1.-g.
bodies, he says, can build the
roads —all they need is the
money. Luke asks for a 50
per cent, increase in the Com-
monwealth roads grant, not
less than 40 per cent, of the
grant to be for local roads.
Certainly no duplication of
Government departments or
“organisations” is needed in
respect of roads, though over-
all planning in nearly all trans-
port matters is a necessity.
The tendency in Canberra is
for a large body of office-
workers to overwhelm the
functional-bodies, in salary and
other respects.
H. E. -Richards, of the
N.R.M.A., says the money for
urgently needed roads should
come from taxes motorists are
now paying “millions of
pounds of which are kept in
general revenue.”


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO JOHN JOSEPH BURNS.—TAKE
NOTICE that GLADYS IRENE BURNS
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3326
of 1958 on the grounds of your having
deserted her without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by the 20th
March 1959 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
H. G. SLARKE & CO., Solicitors, of 02
Margaret Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO IVY DORELLE JOYCE RODGERS
and STANLEY ELLIS each late of 18
Steel Street Hamilton in the State of
New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that
WILLIAM NEWTON RODGERS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 242 of
1958 on the ground of your adultery
If either of you wish to defend you may
enter an appearan'ee in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by 18th March 1959 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from D. W. ABBOTT & CO., Solicitors,
342 Grey Street, Glen Innes; or their
Svdney Agent, D. G. Stuart, Solicitor,
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HECTOR REGINALD DAVIS late
of Mona VaIe.—TAKE NOTICE that
MELVIE JOYCE DAVIS has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 4052 of 1958
on the ground of desertion without just
cause .or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by the 27th
day of March 1959 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. JOHN CORCORAN & CO.,
Solicitors, of 2 York Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Petroleum Prospects for 1959
By L. OWEN
"Previously it has been
customary for the major
companies engaged in the
search for oil on the Australian
mainland and its environs to
publish, before the New Year,
fairly detailed forward informa-
tion as to their exploratory and
drilling programmes.
For 1959, however, this pro-
cedure has not been followed.
The major organisations, this
time, have released little
beyond statements, couched in
general terms, as to immediate-
objectives and operations. On
the other hand, some of the
minor groups have issued fore-
casts of ambitious programmes,
the implementation of which is
quite beyond their capabilities
unless they acquire very sub-
stantial increases in working-
capital, equipment, staff and
technical know-how.
Western Australia
While “the thorough evalu-
ation of the Rough Range-
Cape Range area,” promised a
year ago, has not induced
Wapet to resume active ex-
ploration in the Carnarvon
Basin, there appears to be a
hope that a move in that
direction will occur before
1959 is out.
It should already be obvious
that the major hope of striking
commercial oil lies in a more
thorough understanding of the
disposition and form of the pre-
Cretaceous strata underlying
this structural unit—if it can
be described as such. It should
also be obvious that deep-
drilling must be supplemented
by the recovery of correctly
orientated cores, and by
properly applied and inter-
preted chemical analyses of
gases, oils, brines and strata.
Geophysical surveying could
then be employed, with some
assurance of dependable
results, in determining between-
well conditions in some detail.
In view of the fact that
deep - drilling appears an
essential item in the search, the
sale of Wapet’s most powerful
rig—a National 130 —seems to
have been unfortunate.
The striking of basement,
much above the geophysically-
predicted depth [as at Sam-
phire] occurred also in the
Goldwyer well, a hundred miles
or so to the north-west of
Samphire and 40 miles south-
south-east of Broome. But
persistent showings of oil,
between 2900 ft. and 4000 ft.,
in this well in a tight lime-
stone may indicate either the
existence of a possible source-
bed or the migration of oil
into a porous medium since
rendered impermeable by the
deposition of secondary lime.
In either case, this well opens
up further possibilities in the
area lying south and south-east
of Broome, and further in-
vestigation—in particular with
the aid of applied chemistry—
is justified.
In the Meda 1 well, 40 miles
east of Derby, the recovery of
several gallons of crude oil (of
a light and obviously migrated
character), from the 5110 ft-
. interval, is encourag-
ing ; the location of Meda 2
well only 4000 ft. to the south
ranks almost as an offset in
this country of huge distances.
South Australia
No major drilling was
carried out in this State during
1958, so the foreseeable pros-
pects remain unchanged. Geo-
logical and geophysical surveys
have conventionally followed
the delimitation of post-
Triassic structures, in spite of
the complete failure of such
investigations to achieve com-
mercial results in any part of
the mainland. No attempt at a
comparative chemical study of
several samples of oil collected
in the Wilkatana district
appears to have been made.
Victoria
Apart from routine surveys
by Governmental organisa-
tions, the search for oil in
this State has remained
dormant. Any success is im-
probable unless a drastic over-
haul of the technique pre-
viously employed produces new
information of value.
New South Wales
The entry of new organisa-
tions into the search for gas
is encouraging, but it is to be
hoped that they will modify
the technique normally adopted
in exploration for petroleum
gases to suit the conditions
under which commercial
quantities of methane,
generated in coal-measures,
may be expected to be found.
Queensland
The prospects of success in
the search for oil in this State
have been improved by the
entry of overseas organisations
into the field. It should now
generally be recognised that
post-Triassic tectonics have
little application to pre-
Triassic strata to which the
chances of striking commercial
oil are very largely confined
here.
Northern Territory
The year has produced a
few geological and geophysical
reports, but nothing has been
published which would justify
a forecast of the oil prospects.
Papua
The striking of high-pressure
“wet” gas at Kuru, that of
“moderate to substantial”
shows of gas at Barikewa, and
the production of a very “wet”
gas—first accompanied by
condensate and later by a
mixture of condensate and
light crude oil —at Puri, has
been a complete vindication of
the views expressed in these
pages. I repeat that the pro-
spects for commercial oil in
Papua, over an area straddling
the 7°S. parallel of latitude,
and extending for over a
degree of longitude west from
Puri, are “as bright as those
of any unproved territory in
the Southern Hemisphere.”
This view has now been
confirmed by the major
partners in the operating group,
who, after a period of vacilla-
tion, not only decided to con-
tinue participation in the
search for oil, but are seeking
a permit to operate over an
additional 8930 sq.-miles north
and west of Puri. This appli-
cation covers a large area pre-
viously relinquished by the
same organisation.
Portuguese Timor
Work, since February, 1958,
has been limited to detailed
geological surveying and scout-
drilling which will, of course,
enhance the prospects of suc-
cess in future major well-
sinking. The general geo-
logical conditions on the
island are so complex, however,
that it is difficult to imagine
any area which could benefit
more by the specialised appli-
cation of chemistry, in con-
junction with the usual tech-
nique, to the solution of its
many problems.
General
Throughout 1958, the em-
ployment of “classical”
methods in the search for
petroleum—within a region so
geologically unique as the
Australian continent and its
environs—has proved as fruit-
less as in former years.
At long last there are signs
that the almost universally
migratory character of the oil
in the region, and some of the
effects of the almost com-
pletely erosional phase, which
persisted throughout the
Triassic Period (and, in certain
parts, beyond it), on the pro-
spects of finding commercial
oil are being recognised.
It must again be emphasised,
however, that in Australia,
Papua and Timor, the addition
of applied chemical analyses,
efficiently interpreted, to the
exploratory aids already in use
will, at least, provide invalu-
able additional information
and can lead to commercial
results which could not be
attained without that help.
At the very worst, it will
avoid a great deal of abortive
drilling, and that at the cost
which represents a minute
fraction of the expense
involved in sinking a single use-
less well.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
Max Meldrum Redivivus
The most interesting artistic
event of the New Year for a
lot of people was the sym-
posium on Meldrum
prepared by poet John
Thompson and broadcast over
the A.B.C. network. It was
extremely well done and
couldn’t have failed to touch
the hearts of everybody who
knew Meldrum.
Thompson has assembled
onto the same one-hour record
ex-pupils and friends of the
dead master as far apart in
space as Colin Colahan in
London and Percy Leason in
New York, with Amelie and
Archie Colquhoun, Alma
Figuerola, Jock Frater, Arnold
Shore, John Farmer, August
Cornehls, Lionel Lindsay and
Bill Cook and others pouring
out their tributes and telling
their stories on the home front.
They were mainly anecdotal,
but even the most trivial anec-
dote about a great man reveals
something of him. Alma
Figuerola told how Meldrum
made the bullets in the con-
troversy that raged around him
over a period of two decades
and how she fired them,
thereby getting herself into a
lot of trouble ; and her final
words which finished the broad-
cast were perfect Meldrum. She
described how he loved not
only art, music, architecture
and sculpture, but skills of all
sorts —he would spend a whole
day in London looking for a
pair of boots because he
thought the English craftsman
was infinitely better than the
French, and how there was
nothing he liked better than
listening to a cricket broadcast,
especially if Johnny Moyes was
commentator, and how in his
last days listening to “the
cricket” was his chief solace.
Incompetence, whether of a
plumber or a painter, in-
furiated him, and this is really
the reason why most modern
pictures either enraged or
bored him. He made all his
painting apparatus beautifully
himself, including a chair on
wheels with an arrangement of
pulleys whereby he propelled
himself to and fro in front of
his subject-matter when a
broken leg prevented him from
walking the subject - matter
on this occasion, if I remember
rightly, was Dr. Mannix.
That was characteristic of
Meldrum, who was an ex-
tremely complex individual,
arrogant and humble, aloof and
“These adult Westerns give me the pip!”
kindly, gloomy and as light-
hearted as a child, compas-
sionate and tender and some-
times revengeful, but never
mediocre. When he kicked one
of his pupils out of his studio
for being a pest —as he was —
and the pupil asked to be taken
back a friend took his request
to Meldrum. “Of course he
can come back, the fool,”
grunted Meldrum. “Where else
can he learn anything about
painting?”
Coming back from the
funeral at Springvale with
Archie Colquhoun, John
Farmer said, pointing to the
landscape, “He opened our eyes
to all this beauty.” He put
it very aptly. The con-
temporary opinion of the
critics at that time was that
Meldrum besmirched the Aus-
tralian landscape. But, cripes,
here’s Bill Cook talking. He
tells how, after the death of
his mother, whom he loved
intensely, Meldrum told Bill,
to Bill’s horror, that he would
have liked to have had the
old lady’s head, boiled the skull
clean and preserved it because
of its beauty. “That was push-
ing rationalism a bit too far,”
was Bill’s comment.
That is not the full version.
The story actually concerned
Meldrum’s father, whom he
loved equally with his mother.
Meldrum said that he would
have liked to cut his head off,
wrap it up in paper and take
it home so that he could paint
it; he didn’t do it because
he was afraid he wouldn’t be
understood by anybody who
caught him at it—people w'ere
so damned sentimental. He
himself came of four genera-
tions of rationalists, and be-
lieved that if only telescopes
were mounted' in the cathedrals
that would be the end of all
religion and the dawn of the
age of science. Meldrum got
all the spirituality he needed
from contemplating Nature.
Somebody touched on his
attitude towards women.
When a woman asked to
become his pupil he told her
to go back to the kitchen and
the cradle ; if he had been able
to bear a child he would never
have wanted to paint. He
maintained that there had never
been a. first-class woman
painter and never would be;
then he contradicted his own
doctrine by producing Clarice
Beckett.
His idea of education was to
be given 1000 children, teach
them all the crafts, from brick-
laying to engineering, up to the
age of 20, after which they
could learn to read and write
if they wanted to —but they
would be so complete in their
various skills that they pro-
bably wouldn’t want to. He
himself was a superb crafts-
man. The way he could push
paint about astounded Frater,
who likened his firmness and
gentleness to a violinist’s ; on
this account alone he would
be regarded someday as the
greatest painter for the past
300 years, a valuation which
Meldrum would heartily have
agreed with.
Colin Colahan was. charac-
teristically eloquent and witty
and gave at least some inkling
as to where Meldrum’s genius
lay, not so much in his painting
as his thinking; and Percy
Leason, the one-time Bulletin
cartoonist, shyly added his
tribute from New York I
could see him rubbing his bald
patch as he did so.
It was really an excellent
broadcast. Thompson was con-
sistently high-minded and
reverential and got the very
nicest melodies out of his
chorus of ex-pupils, some of
whom would certainly not be
regarded by Meldrum himself
as his artistic children. Never-
theless, whether in fact they
reacted for or against him,
the broadcast left no doubt
that they all felt the little
bearded, passionate, red-lipped
Scotsman to be of immense
importance, and the biggest
man they had ever met or were
likely to meet in this world.
I regretted that I hadn’t
suggested to Thompson that he
round-off his symposium by
quoting the two articles I
wrote for The Bulletin, one
on Meldrum’s retrospective
exhibition in 1954, and an
obituary two years later,
especially as Justus Jorgensen,
his most distinguished pupil,
was not included in the broad-
cast, through no fault of
Thompson. My notice elicited
this from Meldrum, then on
his deathbed: “I’m writing by
another hand to thank you for
sending me the full copy of
your excellent review. It is
refreshing to read such a one
where an appreciation is given
without qualifying ‘buts,’ and
nothing in the last few years
has so deeply touched me.”
The interesting thing about
this notice and Meldrum s
appreciation of it is that,
though the words are mine,


FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
JOHNNIE
WAMtER
BORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
BY APPOINTMENT TO
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS,
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.
JW. 184.12
the voice is the voice of
Jorgensen, alleged by a lot
of people to have been
Meldrum’s most disloyal pupil.
M. G. SKIPPER.
Journalists’ Club Awards
Results of the Journalists’
Club competition for Graphic
Arts, announced by President
Ken Slessor, are:
The major prize of £2OO for
the best entry —Frank Hodg-
kinson, at present abroad.
For the best drawing in any
medium (£5O) —Ursula Laverty,
207 Eastern Road, Wahroonga.
For the best print in any
medium (£5O) lithograph,
etching, woodcut, monotype,
etc. —Frank Hodgkinson, 315
Edgecliffe Road, Woollahra.
For the best black-and-white
drawing (cartoon, comic-strip,
caricature, etc.) intended for
publication in a newspaper,
magazine or periodical (£5O) —
Peter Harrigan, Jenkins Street,
Coliaroy Plateau.
For the best color illustra-
tion intended for publication in
a magazine or periodical (£5O)
—James Phillips, 124 Blues
Point Road, North Sydney.
The judges were Hal Missing-
ham, director of the N.S.W.
Art Gallery, W. E. Pidgeon
and Laurence Thomas.
Films
“La Parisienne”
There is wit and keen obser-
vation in this French-made
film, with settings and color
well up to standard, even if
the basic plot is tenuous. Com-
promised by the feather-
brained daughter of the Prime
Minister, his private-secretary,
to avoid a political scandal
which could bring the Minis-
try down, agrees under pres-
sure to a shotgun - marriage.
When he persists in dallying
with a string of mistresses, his
bride attempts to arouse his
jealousy by sampling an
affaire with the middle-aged
consort of a visiting queen.
The many comedy-embel-
lishments hung on this thin
thread give the film its par-
ticular charm—that, plus the
polished work of two talented
actors. As the Prime Minister,
Andre Luguet ranges con-
vincingly from icy calm to
Gallic explosiveness in his
desperate endeavors to save the
ship of State from piling-up
on the reefs of domestic in-
fidelity. Charles Boyer effort-
lessly exerts a persuasive charm
as the consort only too willing
to seek diversion from the
boring round of official visits.
Nadia Gray brings to the
role of the Ruritanian queen
a regal bearing, a serene aware-
ness and a good-humored
tolerance of her consort’s little
weaknesses. In the role of the
P.M.’s darter the Bardot falls
back, for the umpteenth time,
on the only two items in her
histrionic box -of - tricks: a
slinky walk which she
obviously hopes is the ne plus
ultra in voluptuousness, and a
won’t-wash-off pout. Both
tend to become rather boring.
At Sydney Savoy.
Patronising and Patronage
[From London]
The critic whose minority
opinion of disapproval con-
flicts painfully with the
vociferous applause of those
about him must often search
his conscience.
Is he sour, out of step, too
demanding? Are artistic in-
tegrity and full houses
mutually exclusive? To the
music critic, having to listen
to the third performance of
the same popular Beethoven
symphony in a single week, the
ordeal is common. He knows
the work off by heart, disagrees
with the interpretation, and
considers the performance
rough. But the audience shouts
“bravos” in real delight.
This kind of experience
occurs, too, in the London
classical theatre. . The Old
Vic’s “Macbeth” has broken
attendance records. Yet one
seasoned theatregoer endured
it with wide-eyed astonishment
and aesthetic dismay. This was
ne great tragedy heightened
with sublime poetry, but a
popular entertainment, strident
with violence, flowing with
blood and packed with eye-
catching producer’s tricks. It
left one quite unmoved, except
in moments, because the
essence, the inner core of truth
and grandeur, was swamped
by overflowing histrionics.
Yet it would be wrong to
condemn this approach out-
right. The Old Vic depends
upon the box-office for four-
fifths of its revenue. And, after
all, which is the greater attain-
ment to entertain the
thousands, thereby introducing
them to classical drama, or to
satisfy a few intellectuals? The
question can only be posed, not
answered.
That the running of an Art
Theatre (“a place where one
play in three is serious, diffi-
cult and not to be seen else-
where”) is precarious and tax-
ing to the endurance is clear
from an article in “Encore”
by Frank Hauser, director of
the Oxford Playhouse. The
definition is Mr. Hauser’s own.
He points out that the Play-
house would have no real
function as a try-out theatre
and it can’t switch to Agatha
Christie between plays.
His average . fortnightly
budget is £1350 and the maxi-
mum fortnightly takings £lBOO.
Since October, 1956, he has
presented 16 new plays, six of
them world premieres. All the
six lost money (maximum
£600) except a Ustinov comedy
which, though people were
standing at every performance,
made £25. In its first season
the Playhouse lost £3OOO in
six months. Now it is show-
ing a profit.
How does it survive? By
a generous Arts Council grant,
by touring, and by a lucky
transfer to London. “Lysis-
trata” made £BOO on tour and
a further £3OO at the Royal
Court. Anouilh’s “Dinner with
the Family,” after going the
rounds of the managers’ offices
for 10 years, “got the Play-
house out of the red (crimson)
after a five-week tour, before
it came to London and paid
for the rest of the season.”
The truth is inescapable.
There is no “market” for
worth-while new plays. In fact,
each time the public has to be
wooed. For a theatre such as
the Playhouse to survive the
hazards—and the worries—of
making ends meet it must de-
pend substantially on State
patronage. And this will have
to be increased. For example,
Covent Garden Opera House,
with an annual grant of
£302,000, is in the red to the
extent of £163,000 and asks
for a future annual subven-
tion of £500,000.
A high price to pay for a
minority to enjoy? Can we
afford not to afford it? Two
points of view, and both
arguable. But no Government,
surely, would like the records
to show that it closed down
the national Opera House.


PET
ITED
Highlights of Chairman’s Address
In his address to the annual meeting of Stockowners held in Sydney (and simultaneously relayed to
subsidiary meetings in all capital cities within the Commonwealth) on Friday, January 16, 1959, the
Chairman, Mr. L. J. Thompson, reported:
• Safes:
9 Profit:
Turnover (for year ended 30/9/’5B) £29,453,903 —Up 14%. (For first quarter of
current year 3 months ended 31/12/ ’58 —Up 12% on corresponding period last year.)
Net profit (after provisions) was £1,760,599 —Up 22.6%.
$ Earning Rate:
Earning rate on average paid-up ordinary stock was 22.2% —Up .5%.
0 Dividend: Increased by 1% to 131%.
© Stockowners'
Funds: Funds total £13,626,409—Up 15.2%.
Assets: Assets of the Company and its subsidiaries now total £24,900,589 —Up 7.2%.
# New Share
Issue:
A new £1,500,000 issue of ordinary shares at par, in the proportion of one new share
for every six ordinary stock units held, will be made on April 24, 1959.
New Tankers: A new £2,000,000 Company-owned tanker of 25,000 tons will come into commission
in July, 1959. Planning for the £4,000,000 super tanker of 32,000 tons is proceeding at
Whyalla in South Australia. This super tanker will come into commission in 1962.
0 Search for Oil: Drilling and exploration continues in the Kimberleys. One new well was spudded-in
at Frome Rocks on January 2.
Another (Meda No. 2) is expected to be spudded-in within a few weeks. The Royal
Dutch Shell group has accepted an invitation to join the WAPET partnership under a
scheme of rearranged interests of 1/7 Ampol and 2/7th each Socal, Texas and Shell.
@ B. F. Goodrich Ampol’s association with the B. F. Goodrich Company of America in the formation
iij . of B. F. Goodrich Australia Pty Ltd., will be a very profitable investment and in the
*■ best interests of the Company. Construction of the most modern tyre factory in the
Southern Hemisphere has started in Melbourne.
Aust. Pty.
Future: With the anticipated increase in consumption of petroleum products during 1959,
together with our steadily increasing share of the market, we confidently expect our
profits for the year to be maintained.
H New Product: Last week we announced a new product, Ampol Boron Special, which replaces our
super grade motor spirit. This follows our successful negotiation of the importation
of BORON, a variant of the BORON rocket fuel used in experiments being conducted
to put satellites into orbit and to reach outer space. This, we believe, will give
tremendous impetus to our sales volume in 1959.
In its first week of marketing, our new petrol has set sensational sales figures and has
had an amazing reception from Australian motorists, proving that NOTHING
MATCHES BORON.
AUSTRALIAN
fIMPOL
OWNED
AMPOL IS OWNED BY MORE THAN
40,000 PROUD AUSTRALIANS


Telegraphic and Cable address: “Brownhills.”
Telephone: BW 1465 (3 lines).
A. H. BROWNHILL & CO.
(A. H. Brownhill, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
27 O’Connell Street - -- -- -- -- - Sydney
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BAY 1771—8 W 8088
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Ready Mixed Concrete, Ltd.
Bids for the 20s. ords. in Ready Mixed
Concrete have risen to 51s. within
the past few weeks, and the scrip, which
sold at 425. 6d. at the end of November,
is currently fetching around 48s. 6d.
While the prevailing emphasis on “growth
stock” (and R.M.C. scrip has certainly
qualified for that rating in the past) has,
at times, appeared to reach mania pro-
portions, the current price of R.M.C.
equities isn’t altogether out of line with
the co.’s recent performances.
Par issues over the last eight years have
taken paid capital from £280,000 to
£1,400,000, without any significant
weakening in the earning-rate on share-
capital, and, although any appetite for
new funds not satisfied by substantial
profit-retentiohs may bear a smaller
relationship to existing scrip, there is no
sign that expansion is at an end.
In any case, with the young associate
co. in Brazil moving into top-gear and
the U.K. offshoot expanding profitably,
the R.M.C. group should have little
trouble in at least holding earnings at
last terms record level and, on this basis,
capitalisation of the sharemarket
premium would give the reasonably good
earnings-yield of 9.7 p.c. The div.-yield
at 48s. 6d. from a 10 p.c. distribution,
would be 4.1 p.c.
R.M.C.’s main interest is, of course, the
supply, on site, of concrete mixed at the
group’s central depots and delivered in
the now familiar agitator trucks. An
engineering division, established in 1955,
fabricates portable batching - plants,
transit-mixers, etc., while a river-gravel
offshoot supplies group- and outside-
customers in Queensland.
Incorporated in N.S.W. in 1939, R.M.C.
found its activities restricted for the next
10 years by the war and the subsequent
shortages of cement, power, labor and
equipment. Since then, however, the
group has bounded along, net earnings,
£16,093 in 1949, rocketing past the
£ 100,000-mark in 1953 „to exceed
£200,000 in 1956 and £300,000 last term,
by a comfortable margin in both cases.
Paid capital was trebled by a par issue
in 1951 and raised to £1,400,000 by par
issues in 1955 (one-for-three) and 1956
(one-for-four), £17,500 of prefs. being
converted into ords. after the 1956 issue.
Retained earnings have also played a big
part in financing the growth of the
organisation, the div.-rate, lifted from
8 p.c. to 10 p.c. in 1955, lagging behind
the earning-rate on average paid capital.
Earnings climbed from 5.7 p.c. of average
capital in 1949 to 14.3 p.c. in 1951, slipped
back to 11.5 p.c. in 1952, and advanced
from 22.8 p.c. to 24.1 p.c. over the three
years to June 30 last.
Permanent mixing-works are located
in all mainland State capitals, as well as
Canberra, Geelong (Vic.) and the Queens-
land centres of Toowoomba and Towns-
ville, overseas opportunities leading to
the establishment of plants in the U.K.
(1952), Singapore (1955) and West Ger-
many (1955), while, in 1954, the co. joined
with U.S. and Brazilian interests to form
an associate co. in Brazil. There is still
ample scope for expansion in the U.K.
and West Germany, and, to date, earnings
won in these countries have been
ploughed-back, the first div. from the
Brazilian co., which is understood to be
knocking-up attractive profits, coming in
in the current term.
Sales on home and overseas markets
continued to improve last term, group
earnings responding accordingly, the con-
solidated pre-tax profit rising by 14 p.c.
to £552,356 after providing £203,738 (up
£35,961) for depreciation. Provision for
Australia and U.K. taxes (up £11,844 at
£222,729) left the net figure £57,438
stronger at £329,618:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends ~ To Re- Re-
Jne., Profit. Pref. , Old. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
’53..101,174 1400 8 p.c. = 64.120 35,654 122,462
Unexplained reduction, £126 .. .. 122,336
’54..133,744 1400 8 p.c. = 65,800 66,544 188,880
Profit sale assets, £17,140 . .; .. 206,020
’55..188.662 1550 10 p.c. = 82,250 104,862 310,882
’56..235,295 1550 10 ~ „ 103,250 130,495 441,377
’57..272,180 10 „ „ 119,000 153,180 594,557
’58..329,618 10 „ „ 136,500 193,118 787,675
Steady at 10 p.c., the div.-rate called
for an extra £17,500, to cover the final
payment on scrip issued in 1956, the
whole of the div. coming from profits
earned in Australia.
To assist in financing current expan-
sion projects, the U.K. subsidiary raised
£313,750 on 1\ p.c. convertible loan-
stock last term and, by easing the task
of retained earnings, this move may
enable the successful offshoot to make
its first contribution to the parent co.’s
income.
The profitable development of the
business is evident from the consolidated
balance-sheet, new mining-plants and a
growing swag of book-debts absorbing
most of the funds introduced over the
last four years. However, even with the
U.K. co.’s loan-stock and the £137,745
of share-capital gathered-in last term,
the fast-expanding group didn’t appear
to be oversupplied with working-capital
at June 30 last, despite the big improve-
ment in the ratio of current liabilities
and provisions to current assets, 1:1.26
at the end of the term as against 1:0.88
12 months earlier:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1956. 1957. 1958.
Paid capital .. £1,120,000 £1,262,255 £1,400,000
Reserves .. .. 441,378 594,558 787,076
Minority
interests 30 26 26
Convertible loan-
stock .. .. -—• 313,750
Overdraft.. ... 85,823 110,475
Creditors, etc.* .. 451,869 542,814 630,279
Tax provision .. 321,339 358,420 407,973
Final div. .. 54,150 61,250 70,000
£2,474,589 £2,929,798 £3,609,704
Fixed assets . . 1.654,922 1,976,755 2,205,985
Stock .. .. 107,089 127,962 141,600
Book-debts, etc. . . 701,361 817,636 960,947
Cash, etc... .. 11,217 7,445 301,172
£2,474,589 £2,929,798 £3,609,704
The year’s outlay on fixed assets (which,
in the published accounts, include in-
vestments) was in excess of £430,000, the
depreciation provision leaving their cost-
/cw-depreciation book-value higher -by
£229,230. Although the overdraft was
eliminated, the amount owing to creditors,
etc., increased by £87,465 and total out-
side liabilities and provisions by £349,043.
A third larger than the figure given in
the 1956 accounts, book-debts rose by
£143,311.
At balance-date there was a net tangible
cover of 31s. 3d. for each £1 ord.
Containers, Ltd.
\X7hen allowance is made for a tax-
overprovision in the preceding year,
the earnings of the big Containers group
remained virtually stationary last term
at the peak-level reached in 1956-57, the
benefits flowing from a record output
barely matching a rise in raw-material and
labor costs.
Biggest of its kind in Australia, the
Containers organisation turns out tin-
plate, fibre and plastic containers, cans,
etc., screw-caps, closures, cartons and
flexible packaging-materials, as well as
undertaking tin-printing and -lacquering
and label-printing.
The interests of several leading can-
manufacturers were amalgamated on the
formation of Containers, Ltd., in 1949,
the original members of the group includ-
ing Union Can Co., Southern Can Co.,
J. T. Picken and Sons, Dominion Can
Co. and Fibre Can Co., with James
Marsh and Sons, T. Dawson and Sons,
Paul Bruce and Co. and Chas. Steele and
Co. (Holdings) coming into the group
through subsequent share-exchanges.
Manufacturing-strength is concentrated in
Victoria and N.S.W., but there are fac-
tories in all States except Queensland.
Growth by absorption has been accom-
panied by the vigorous expansion and
extension of 'established production-
units, and members were asked to contri-
bute to this effort in 1956, when 1,034,275


G. H. PARTRIDGE & CO.
Ij. I). PARTRIDGE, A. G. HANSON
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
113 Pitt Street, Sydney Telephone: BE 5031-2
Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdale”
PATRICK & COMPANY
Sydney.
R. H. AMEN
P. R. LEVY
Members of The Sydney
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911.
. M. K. L. DOWLING
A. P. REYNOLDS
Stock Exchange.
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
£1 ords. were offered to ord. (three-for-
-10) and pref. (one-for-five) shareholders.
In the same year another £500,000 was
raised on 6j p.c. prefs. redeemable after
1971 at a 12| p.c. premium. A small
issue to employees in the current term
took paid capital to £5,860,789, 5 p.c.
prefs. accounting for £750,000, and the
redeemable prefs. for £500,000 of this
total.
A maiden (64- p.c.) ord. div. was sent
out in 1951, an 8 p.c. distribution in each
of the last four years leaving the average
div.-rate at a little under 7.4 p.c. In the
last five terms earnings, after covering
pref. charges, have equalled 14.3 p.c.
(1954), 17 p.c., 12.5 p.c., 12.4 p.c. and
13 p.c. (1958) on average ord. capital,
and, with new factories planned in South
Australia, N.S.W. (two) and Victoria,
there doesn’t appear to be much chance
of an early lift in the div.-rate.
Despite the growing variety and uses
of containers produced by the group
(beer-cans were added to the range last
term),, fruit- and vegetable-canners are
still among its largest customers and
tinplate its major raw-material. As might
be expected, earnings tend to fluctuate
with variations in seasonal conditions
affecting the canning-industry, but it was
costs rather than demand that hampered
progress last term, the group absorbing
increases in the cost of imported tinplate
(covering about 50 p.c. of total tinplate
requirements) and in wage-rates. How-
ever, the greater volume of business
limited the fall in pre-tax “trading profit”
(£1,070,409) to £20,079, and, after
including investment income, etc., and
providing £407,807 (down £46,163) for
taxation, consolidated net profit was
reckoned at £670.198:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends ~ To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. serves. serves.*
5 p.c. 6 p.c.
£ ±: £ £ £
1953.. 213,565 37,500 153,003 23,062 490,690
Tax overprovided, £9552 .. .. 500,242
■ Loss sale assets, £1358 .. .. 498,884
Goodwill written-off, £14,019.. .. 484,865
74 p.c.
1954.. 457,766 37,500 219,568 200,698 685,563
Tax overprovided, £B2B .. .. 656.391
Profit sale assets, £1245 .. .. 657.636
Goodwill written-off, £4600 .. .. 683,036
8 p.c.
1955.. 538,704 37,500 235,806 265,398 945.434
Profit sale assets, £5682 .. .. 954,116
Tax overprovided, £12,403 .. .. 966,519
Share premiums, £6BB .. .. .. 967,207
Unexplained reduction, £57 .. .. 967,150
Share issue expenses, £43,680 .. 923,464
Pre-acquisition profits not available for
distribution, £36.181 . . . . 887,283
5 & 64 p.c.
1956.. 517,10 C 47,952 298,890 170,252 1.057,535
Share premiums, £775 .. .. 1,058,310
Profit sale assets, £6455 .. .. 1.064,705
Tax overprovided, £14,200. . . . 1,078,905
To prov. long-service leave, £41,000. . 1,037,905
Goodwill written-off, etc., £5067 .. 1,032,898
1957.. 039.872 70,000 365,855 204,017 1,2.36,915
Loss sale assets', £1702 .. .. 1.235.213
Tax overprovidi d, £31.809 .. .. 1.207,022
Written-off goodwill, £137,901 .. 1,129,121
1958.. 670.198 70,000 368,050 232,118 1,361,239
* Subject to intangibles, £11,580 at 30/0/’SS.
Claimed after allowing £333,014 (up
£36,354) for depreciation, the profit was
£30,326 higher than the figure written
in the previous term, but, as tax was
overprovided for to the extent of £31,809
in that year, the actual difference was
£1483 in favor of 1956-57.
Several non-operating subsidiaries were
wound-up during the term and their
assets transferred to the parent co., good-
will being written-down by £137,901 in
the process.
There were no marked changes over
the year in the solid and comfortable
financial structure:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1906. 1957. 1958.
Pref. ..£1,250,000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Ord. . . 4,475,778 4,591.189 4,591,189
Reserves .. 1,057,535 1,236,915 1,7161,239
Outside interests 74,044 27,938 29,479
Mortgage . . 55,183 333.931 448,536
Overdraft . . 1,107,270 1,336,289 1,260,442
Creditors .. 1,001.895 1,197,000 981,771
Tax provision . . 442,270 453,970 408,118
Final divs. .. . 210.194 218,647 219,432
£9,674,169 £10,645,945 £10,550,206
Land, buildings 1,838,757 2,005,536 2,149,513
Plant, machinery 2,136,297 2,249,866 2,240,019
Investments .. 54,846 52,778 75,278
Stocks . . . . 4,168,899 4,423,157 4,269,751
Deotors .. 1,307,-378 1,761,338 1,791,784
Cash, etc. .. 29,802 3,554 12,281
Intangibles .. 138,190 149,716 11,580
£9,674,169 £ 10,645,945 £ 10,550,206
Retained earnings easily covered the net
£134,130 added to fixed assets, a £221,976
improvement in working - capital
(£3,204,053) following a £153,406 slip in
stocks and reductions in the sizeable over-
draft (down £75,847) and the amount
against creditors,-etc. (down £215,295).
The steady widening of Containers’
range of products has given the co. a
stake in most aspects of the container
and packaging industries, and the long-
term prospects appear to favor continued,
if unspectacular, progress. Within the
next few years JB.H.P. expects to begin
production of electrolytic tinplate on a
scale sufficient to meet the bulk of local
requirements, and this move should result
in some saving in raw-material costs. (At
present, B.H.P. turns-out only hot-dipped
tinplate, this material being used, mainly,
in the manufacture of “open-top” cans.)
However, the level of costs could
assume even greater importance if new
trade-alignments in Europe and the
limited convertibility of sterling bring
Australian fruit- and vegetable-canners
up against stiffer competition in the U.K.,
their principal export market.
Meanwhile, there has been a small
reduction in the price of tinplate in the
current term, and, as adequate supplies
of fruit and vegetables are available for
canning in most areas there would seem
to be some scope for an improvement in
earnings this year.
The sharemarket prices the f.-p. £1
ords. at 31s. 9d. (as against 275. 3d. a
year ago), for a yield of £5 os. 9d. p.c.
from an 8 p.c. div. Net tangible cover at
June 30 last was 255. lid.
Humes, Ltd.
TTijmes. ltd., is one of the top-line
profit-winners of the moment, and
its shares are priced according to an
earning-rate which, at a guess, wouldn’t
fall far short of 40 p.c. on ord. capital.
From a string.of 50 or more factories
in Australia and N.Z., and also Singapore,
Malaya and Fiji, Humes turns-out rein-
forced-concrete piping for water-supply,
sewerage and other purposes as well as
allied concrete and steel products.
The Melbourne-based parent owns all
the ordinary capital in Humes Indus-
tries (N.Z.), Ltd. (paid capital £650,000 in
250,000 prefs. and 400,000 ords., all of
20s. each); and has a controlling-interest
in Hume Industries (Far East), Ltd. (paid
capital £950,000 in 250,000 20s. prefs.
and 2,800,000 ss. ord. stock-units).
In both cases the prefs. are held by out-
siders, as is also £lOO,OOO of the Malayan
subsidiary’s ord. capital.
While the basic soundness of this well-
integrated group is beyond question, it is
all too easy to be dazzled by present
splendor, and to forget that turnover is,
for Humes, to a large extent a catch-as-
catch-can matter, highly dependent on
the level of Government and semi-
Government spending, and the com-
pany’s own competitive tendering.
Chairman C. N. Mackenzie stressed
this at the annual meeting for 1958. He
pointed out that the level of Govern-
ment activity isn’t necessarily even in its
spacing, and that periods of relative quiet
must be expected.
This doesn’t mean, of course, that
Hume’s profits are about to do a swallow-
dive ; but it does mean that the present
earning-rate should be put into pers-
pective by averaging over a significant
period, for which purpose the past decade
can’t be considered entirely normal.
Humes was formed in 1920, and, after
showing early promise in the ’twenties, set
a rather drab pace until 1948. In its
career it has passed a dividend on occa-
sion, but has, nevertheless, always
managed to come out on the right side.
In the 1957-58 term, group sales reached
a new peak of over £l4 million (up £1.5
million), and the net consolidated profit
claimed by the group was £603,383
(£584,802 in 1957), struck after providing
£502,780 (£495,308) for taxation and
£463,555 (£376,198) for depreciation and
amortisation.
There’s nothing to argue about with
this result, even if it isn’t a record,
visibly. Worth noting is an abnormal
£lOO,OOO charged against the year’s
earnings as the company’s block contri-
bution to its superannuation fund ; and
the avoirdupois of those tax and deprecia-
tion figures makes them highly interesting,
too, given the background information


REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
W p a
i*
ASSETS EXCEED
£55,000,000
PAID UP CAPITAL
£10,000,000
Our Auditors, Messrs, L. B.
Wallace & Son, Chartered
Accountants (Aust.) wish to
state that as at the 31st July, 1958,
the amount of Issued Debenture
Stock was £23,346,000 secured
f by First Floating Charge over
the Tangible Assets of the Com* £
pany which at book value
exceeded £55,000,000 at that
date.
I.A.C. guarantees fixed quarterly income,
free of exchange
For full details , see Prospectus: your copy available
from Members of Stock Exchanges , 703 Branches of
A.N.Z. Bank Limited or I.A.C. Branches.
Underwriting Brokers:
lan Potter & Co., Melbourne,
Canberra & Sydney.
Trustees for the Debenture Stockholders:
The Perpetual Executors & Trustees
Association of Australia Limited.
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
(Established 28 years)
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE
ADELAIDE • PERTH • HOBART
CANBERRA • NEWCASTLE
WOLLONGONG
GEELONG • BUNBURY
x/ est
r-»
'V
that losses incurred by sub-
sidiaries for the year amounted
to a trifling £18,341:
Parent and Subsidiaries.*
f— —Dividends
Jne. Profit. Pref. Old. Reserves.
30. £ £ £ £
174 p.e.
’56..455,884 27,188 293,125 2,665,733
Less increase in intangibles,
£l6ll 2,664,122
Surplus revaluation subsidiary
assets, £310,106 .. 2,974,228
Loss sale assets, etc.,
£62,628 .. .. 2,911,600
Written-off, £6200 .. 2,905,400
16 p.c.
’57..584,802 27,188 268,000 3,195,0)4.
Tax overprovided, £22,078 3,217,092
Revaluation reserves capital-
ised, £418,169.. .. 2,798,923
Amortisation —N.Z. Asbestos
mine, £6200 .. .. 2,792,723
Investm’ts w/down, £4900 2,787,823
Less added intangibles,
£1864 2,785,959
15J p.c.
’58..603,383 27,188 298,937 3,063,218
* After deducting outside interests.
Half of one per cent, was
chipped-off the previous year’s
div.-rate, and for 1958 an odd-
looking p.c. was the ords.’
portion.
Any reduction in the current
year’s rate, however, won’t
unduly perturb ord.-share-
holders, who were treated
to a one-for-four gift-issue dur-
ing the term, financed from
revaluation reserves. The first
capital issued by the parent
since 1952, it obviously hasn’t
exhausted the scrip’s prospects.
Net profit was £576,195 for
the ordinaries last term —that
is, on book-figures—covering
the ord. dividend nearly twice
over and representing an earn-
ing-rate of 34.3 p.c. on ord.
capital as it stood before the
bonus issue, nearly up to the
average of 35 p.c. for the past
six years:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital—- 1957. 1958.
Pref. .. £362,500 £362,500
Ord. .. 1,675,000 2,137,500
Reserves .. 3,195,014 3,063,218
Outside interest 893,580 896,316
Notes .. 1,000,000 1,000,000
Mortgages .. 625,620
Overdraft . . 1,103,591 514,047
Creditors . . 1,664,962 1,671,068
Tax provision 506,673 516,232
Suspense a/c.. 64,219 68,2.16
Final div. .. 164,344 195,281
£10,629,883 £11,049,998
Freehold .. 601,767 600,507
Buildings .. 2,112,902 2,245,069
Plant . . 1,995,484 2,141,259
Asbestos . . 99,397 68,819
Shares other cos. 222,070 223,170
Stocks ... 3,684,084 3,586,493
Debtors .. 1,818.080 2,018,765
Cash, etc* .. 96,099 105,916
£10,629,883 £11,049,998
* Includes deposit on contracts, £41,485
at 30/6/’5B.
Liquidity, already quite satis-
factory, was further bolstered
by the injection last term of
£625,620 of mortgage money,
while bank-overdraft fell from
£1,103,591 to £514,047. At
balance-date, current assets
were £5,664,294 and current
liabilities £2,964,844.
Visible net tangibles showed
up as 48s. Bd. for each 20s.
ord., and at 60s. the scrip
would return £4 13s. 4d. p.c.
from a 14 p.c. distribution.
G. & R. Wills (Holdings)
Shareholders in the G. and
R. Wills organisation have
had an excellent run for their
money since the public
obtained a share-interest in the
110-year-old business in 1946.
Gift-scrip was handed-out in
1948 (one-for-one), 1950 (one-
for-two) and 1954 (one-for-six),
while formation of the present
holding-co. in 1955 involved,
in effect, a one-for-two bonus-
issue and was followed by a
one-for-three par-issue.
Bonus-scrip is of little real
value, of course, unless it leads
to a bigger dividend-income,
and on this score the co. has
given shareholders small cause
for complaint, an increase in
the div.-rate last term, from
13| p.c. to 15 p.c., lifting the
ord. div. 50 p.c. above the 1955
payout and 100 p.c. above the
1953 figure. Pajd capital is


THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England )
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WAL.ES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 4357 (2 lines).
L. F. THORPE. MANAGER.
now £1,150,000, of which
£150,000 carries a cumulative
6 p.c.
A wide spread of interests
has contributed to the group’s
success, the operating sub-
sidiaries carrying on business
as merchants, manufacturers
and shipping-agents, as well as
holding a sizeable wad of in-
vestments.
Headquarters are in
Adelaide, the subsidiary cos.
trading in all Australian States
and the U.K., in addition to
operating large clothing-fac-
tories in Adelaide and Perth
(turning-out shirts, pyjamas,
underwear, etc.). On the mer-
chandising side the numerous
agencies held cover a variety
of locally-manufactured and
imported goods and include
the Australian agency for
Bombay Dyeing and Manu-
facturing Co., one of the
largest cotton-spinners and
-weavers in the world. Build-
ing materials, chemicals and
softgoods are among the lines
handled.
Import - restrictions con-
tinued to limit activities in
certain sections of the organisa-
tion last term, while the volume
of shipping-business suffered
from the effects of the drought.
The trade in building-materials
was also a little quieter, but
sales of other lines, including
those manufactured by the
group, helped to keep turn-
over more-or-less steady
at approximately £17,000,000.
Nevertheless, “profit from
trading” slipped by £30,359 to
£249,274, after providing a
practically unchanged £46,139
for depreciation and sending
£36,054 (down £20,344) to the
staff superannuation-fund.
Equal to p.c. on paid
capital, investment income
was £6512 smaller at £86,834,
a less generous, but ample, pro-
vision for taxation (down
£32,759 at £100,901) leaving
net earnings £4112 lighter at
£235,207:
G. k R. Wills and Subsidiary.
r~ —Dividends Re-
Jly. Profit. Pref. Ord. , serves.*
19, 54 p.c.
£ £ p c £ £
’55..214,723 8250 20 =lOO,OOO 1,089,913
To staff fund. £9286 . . 1.080,627
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Excess, cost, over for sub-
sidiary shares, £248.709 831,913
Preliminary exp. written-
off, £2915 .. .. 829,003
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. 819,003
Surplus sale assets, £385 819,388
6 p.c.
'56..214,130 9000 13J—116,667 907,851
To staff fund, £13,333 .. 894,518
’57..239,319 9000 991,504
Revaluation freeholds,
£234,933 .. ..1,226,437
Tax overprovided, £38,676 1,265,113
To staff fund, £13,333 .. 1,251,780
’58..235,207 9000 15 =150,000 1,327,987
* After deducting intangibles, written-
out in 1957-58.
There was no difficulty in
meeting the higher div.-rate,
the £235,207 covering the pref.
div. and 22.6 p.c. on ord.
capital, compared with 23,
23.4 and 20.5 p.c. in the three
years back to 1955.
During the year the staff
endowment-fund was entrusted
to a subsidiary formed for that
purpose, surplus tax-provisions
arising from this transfer
accounting for most of the
£38,676 overprovision shown
in the above table.
“Very difficult” trading con-
ditions were experienced by
one subsidiary towards the
close of the year, and, while
w<orking-capital increased by
£104,611 to £1,139,676, the
group had to stretch its over-
draft by £425,198 to cover a
rather steep (15 p.c.) rise in
stocks and a reduction of
£228,194 in the amount owing
to depositors and sundry
creditors. For some years the
co. has depended on outside
money for a largish proportion
of its total funds (49 p.c. at
July 31 last), but at balance-
date the £3,270,373 of current
assets exceeded all liabilities
and provisions by £823,176:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1957. 1958.
Pref £150,000 £150,000
Ord. .. .. 1.000.000 1,000,000
Reserves .. 991,504 1,327,987
Mortgage .. 365,500 316,500
Overdraft .. 48.836 474,034
Creditors, etc. .. 1,650,182 1,421,988
Staff fund .. 112,982 48,200
Tax provision .. 166.649 98,582
Filial divs. . . 71,106 87,833
£4,556,819 £4,925,184
Land, buildings 555,317 797,906
Plant, etc. . . 227,961 215,446
Shares other cos. 617.801 641,459
Stock . . . . 1,607,988 1,860,402
Debtors . . . . 1,407,388 1,408,917
Cash . . . . 9,504 1,054
Staff-fund invest-
ments . . 70,860 - —-
£4,556,819 £4,925,184
Used to eliminate goodwill, the
surplus on an “extremely con-
servative” revaluation of
certain freeholds was respon-
sible for most of the £242,589
increase in the book-value of
land and buildings, the depreci-
ation on plant, etc., outweigh-
ing expenditure.
Investments, up £23,658 at
a modest £641,459 (cost, or
valuation), include scrip in
Davies Coop and Co., Union
Carbide (Australia), S. A. Port-
land Cement, T.S.I. (Aus-
tralia), Valley Worsted Mills,
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co.
and Courtaulds (Aust.).
Shipping-business and the
building-materials trade could
prove more profitable in the
current term, and, although
tighter import-restrictions seem
possible before too long, the
15 p.c. div. appears to be well
within the group’s earning-
capacity.
At 16s. the ss. ords. look a
long-term proposition and at
that price would return
£4 13s. 9d. p.c. from a 15 p.c.
div. Net tangible cover at July
31 last was 11s. Bd.
Mac. Robertson Miller Air-
lines, Ltd.
Re-
June Profit. Dividend.— N serves.
69, £ £ £
Tax overprovided, £2l .. 1,326
1956.-38,023 7i p.c. = 35,712 3,637
Sept. 30.
Capital profit, £4291 .. 7,928
1957* 62,357 74 p.c. = 35,712 34,573
Prelim, exp. w/off, £lO,lBO 24,393
Capital profit, £1770 . . 26,163
1958.. 70,084 74 p.c. = 35,712 60,535
* 15 months to Sept. 30, 1957.
A Westralian which is
showing good results (for
an airline), M.M. gained
ground convincingly in the
year ended September 30-
more so than the tabulated
results indicate, since the 1957
figures cover a period of 15
months.
Apart from this, the 1958
tax-provision, £59,810, gives
the impression that the
accounts are made-up conser-
vatively—rightly so for this
class of business. Depreciation
was charged at £58,306, a little
higher than in the previous
year, and the significance of
this item in relation to total
fixed assets is rather difficult
to assess. It will be remem-
bered, however, that the Taxa-
tion Commissioner allows a
rate of 37y p.c. on the reducing
book-value of commercial air-
craft.
Deduction of the above
items from gross profit left net
earnings of £70,084, and this
represented a visible return of
14.7 p.c. on the uniquely ordi-
nary capital.
Mac. Robertson Miller Air-
lines, Ltd., is the larger entity
which was formed in June,
1955, when the publicly-held
Airlines (W.A.), Ltd., and the
proprietary, Mac. Robertson-
Miller Aviation Co., amalga-
mated their interests.
Shareholdings are widely
spread —nearly 900 investors,
mostly in Westralia, have a
stake in the airline —but actual
control is vested in another
public company, Mac. Robert-
son (Australia), Ltd., the
chocolate - and - sweet maker,
which owns nearly half of the
share-capital.
This unlikely association had
its beginning in 1928, when the
late Sir Macpherson Robert-
son (hence the Mac.) became
interested in aviation in the
West, among other pioneering
and civic ventures and endow-
ments. It was he who financed
the famous London-Melbourne
air-race of 1934, won by the
Comet, the prototype of the
Mosquito.
The present airline provides
Westralia with an internal
network of passenger and
freight schedules. Freight is
apparently the bigger profit-
winner ; some of the passenger
routes are serviced at a loss
despite a Government subsidy
for outback flights.
An interesting sideline is the
Air-Beef scheme, under which
the carcasses of cattle killed in
the inland are flown to Wynd-
ham on the Kimberley coast.
The balance-sheet is straight-
forward and needs little
comment:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
June 30. Sept. 30, Sept. 30.
1950. 1957. 1958.
£ £ - £
Share capital 476,157 476,157 476,157
Reserves . . 3,637 24,393 60,535
Creditors .. 115,719 122,660 1 , Q( - 9f , Q
Tax provision 35,668 47,202 j
Dividend .. 35,712 -—• * *
668,893 670,412 731,901
Freeholds and
leaseholds 140,100 143,023 150,242
Aircraft and
accessories 181,069 142,409 ]
Plant and 188,423
equipment 72,229 72,526 J
Shares in Air
Beef Pty. 6,500 6,500 6,500
Stocks, spares,
etc. . . 75,753 75,625 71,997
Debtors . . 117,746 115,171 130.498
Cash, bonds 64,548 115,158 184,241
Intangibles . . 8,948
068,893 670,412 731,901
* £35,712 in 1957 and 1958, paid
Sept. 20.
Cash or near-cash alone is only
slightly less than the total of
current liabilities. The co.,
however, could run into
trouble when it has to replace
its present obsolescent fleet,
which consists of DC3’s, Doves
and Ansons. Its present holding
of cash and bonds, and the
current rate of accumulation
won’t provide more than a
down-payment on a single
modern craft suited to the air-
line’s purposes.
Perth investors aren’t exactly
clamoring for M.M.’s 10s.
scrip. Current trading
shows buyers offering around
Bs. 9d., at which price yield
would be 8.6 p.c. from a
p.c. dividend. Net tangible
backing for each share was
11s. 3d. at balance-date.


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week.
«HJkV»** C
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
6 6Tt was moonlight, so most
people were abroad,”
wrote Jane Austen. They
travelled by coach to neighbors’
houses. A century-and-a-half
later, “abroad” means over-
seas, “coach” means a high-
powered, air - conditioned
luxury affair with pneumatic
brakes, and travelling has be-
come an important industry.
Before the war, people be-
gan to think about summer
holidays after Easter. Nowa-
days, they begin before they
have taken down their
Christmas decorations. The
travel-agencies have found that
the time of year when the
weather is at its dreariest is the
best time to launch their cam-
paign, which they prosecute in-
tensively and at enormous ex-
pense throughout the popular
press.
All the signs point to a
bumper season. There is plenty
of money available, especially
among those to whom a Con-
tinental holiday is a new ex-
perience or still a novelty. The
economic recovery safeguards
the agencies from their biggest
worry—a reduction, at Budget-
time, of the travel-allowance
of £lOO. And, if there are
doubts as to the willingness of
European nations to co-operate
4n a Common Market, such
hesitancy certainly does not
apply to tourism.
Except for the “grand tour”
by coach, conducted parties are
few. In fact, the agencies no
longer describe their tours as
independent. The demand for
air-travel is insistent and the
part-journey by air (London
to Bale or Munich or Pisa) is
increasing.
Prices are reasonable: two
weeks at a good hotel in
Switzerland, Austria or
Northern Italy working out at
about £5O, inclusive of air-
travel. The deceptive appear-
ance of that useful old discard,
the guinea, is by no means
neglected. One firm even com-
pares its own rates in guineas
to those of a competitor in
pounds.
The success of the charter-
plane, whereby a fortnight’s
holiday can be obtained for
less than the normal tourist
return-fare, has compelled
British European Airways to
compromise by offering similar
facilities. One agency adver-
tises a 10-day inclusive trip
to Greece and Turkey, with a
night in Rome, for only £76,
against a normal £l2O for the
flight alone.
Other more ambitious trans-
continental holidays include
“seven glorious days” in New
York (£185), an “Over the
Pole” trip to Los Angeles,
Washington and New York
(£281) and a week in Moscow
and Leningrad (£175).
Outlook for 1959
The spectacular close to
1958, when the “Financial
Times” industrial ordinary-
share index passed its previous
“high” (July, 1955) on the last
day of the year, has not been
maintained. But there is no
depression. Confidence in in-
dustrial and financial circles is
high, if cautious. A reasonably
optimistic forecast is of an
uncertain period during the
early months of the year, a
noticeable recovery in the
autumn and record production
figures by the end of the year.
The caution springs from
two imponderables. One is ex-
ternal— the continuance or
otherwise of the U.S. recovery
and the ability of the pound,
now partially freed, to with-
stand speculative flights. The
second is internal and simple
enough—the color of the next
Government. Other factors are
the higher costs of imports and
the greater difficulties of ex-
ports, the recession in heavy
industry and the success of
the Government in promoting
demand without a wages-costs
inflation.
A Socialist victory at the
general election could, of
course, undo all the economic
gains of the past year, but there
are no signs of any resurgence.
Labor is, in fact, more on the
defensive than ever. It is, per-
haps, an oversimplification to
say that every forward move
of the Government adds to
Mr. Gaitskell’s jitters, but his
shriek of protest at con-
vertibility was decidedly a cry
from the heart. No Labor
leaders (still less a Prime
Minister - elect) like to see
exchange-controls freed. What
glory will there be in coming
to office if the first reaction is
a run on the pound? The
general trend away from
Socialism, as endorsed by the
Australian elections, must also
dishearten them.
Opinion in Throgmorton
Street inclines to the view that
equity-prices may fall. Not
only have they discounted
future developments but they
are also boosted by new money
from the unit-trusts. It is
known that the institutions, on
this account and anticipating
cheaper money, have been
switching into gilts. On the
other hand, company reports,
especially in the steel industry,
are more cheerful, and the ten-
dency is for dividends to be
increased.
Flat in Bayswater
“No Concern of Mine,”
another play about the dis-
turbed younger generation, has
failed to excite the English
public, although the author,
27-year-old Jeremy Kingston,
has sold the film-rights and
aroused considerable interest
abroad. Perhaps John Osborne
has thankfully been allowed
the last word on Angry Young
People?
There are, it is true, affinities
with “Look Back in Anger.”
The unsuccessful writer,
Bernard Ross, is quite as
vehement as Jimmy Porter but
inherently kindlier and more
sterling; and the two-male/
one - female menage-a-trois
(this time brother, sister and
friend) lives in a similar kind
of emotional rough-house. But
there the resemblance ends.
Mr. Osborne’s shattering im-
pact is essentially personal and
his technique at once crude,
superficial and brilliant. Mr.
Kingston’s approach is im-
personal, with no insensate
anger to work - off and no
message to convey ; he merely
(though with superb adroit-
ness) translates life as he sees
it into dramatic terms.
His is the more enduring
play because it is timeless. So
long as there are capital-cities
and drama-schools and vaguely
would-be writers, young mi-
grants will let ragged
Bohemianism serve as compen-
sation for unattained (and,
usually, unattainable) fame.
Here the brother and sister
live in an appalling basement
‘"flat” and out of sympathy
have taken in the vociferous
Bernard, who is the unwilling
friend of the one and the un-
certain suitor of the other.
Skylarking, freedom from
parental control, idleness,
irregular living and late-night
bottle-parties all point to
wasted lives and promiscuity.
Nonetheless, underneath the
facade of rebellion against the
conventions there lies a
morality which, if strained, is
rigid.
Mr. Kingston has recaptured
this Quartier Latinism
astonishingly well and is ably
supported by his producer and
cast, all of whom, save only
the sedate aunt who drops in,
are under 30. It is when he
becomes serious that the play
fails. The weak-willed brother’s
shop-breaking out of bravado
and his attempted suicide may
be credible, but the reactions
of the others are not.
The play should certainly
be seen by those who live a
long way from London and
who fancy the stage as a pro-
fession. By acquiring in
advance a distaste for washing-
up (professionally, of course),
for self-pity, for serving in
coffee-bars and for the dubious
glamor of impoverished
Bohemianism they will save
themselves much delayed
agony.


TWO LADIES CALLED
By RAYMOND BARRY
Steve and Joey walked
across the park towards
Macleay Street. It was
a hot night and there
were quite a few people in
the park, some talking, and a
few children, although it was
getting late.
The man who stood at the
Macleay Street end of the park
where they would come out
held a large new potato in his
hand and * was tall and
extremely thin. They walked
towards him, and Joey said,
“Gord strike me, took an
overdose of slimming-tablets! ”
The man didn’t appear to hear
him. Joey was funny the way
he said things like that.
The man walked up to Steve
and held the potato up to him
as if it were a microphone.
“And what is your opinion of
the current world situation?”
he said.
Steve was mad at having
a bad day at the races and
things like that, and he said
to him, “Go away, you mad
bastard! ”
This made the tall man wild,
and people sitting around who
had been forced to listen to
him on world affairs for the
past quarter-hour were amused.
The man called out after Steve
and said he was an ignoramus
and apathetic. Steve didn’t
care much, and the people
around in the park laughed,
although they see plenty of
that sort of thing in the Cross.
“Gotta be stone yarra,” Joey
said. “Think they’d put ’em
away somewhere, wouldn’t
you?”
Steve more or less nodded
his head. He was very easy-
going. Steve was well-built and
not bad-looking, with dark
hair and a tanned complexion.
He worked as a bookmaker’s
clerk when he was working,
and always got to race-
meetings. Joey was small and
walked with a limp. He was
good-looking in a cheeky way
and had dark hair with a high
wave swept right back. He was
nearly always with Steve, and
before that he’d been with
Siddy. They seemed to like
to have him about to do
messages and things
like that. Also, he
was good at being
funny when no one
else felt like being
funny, and for get-
ting girls. He had
plenty of contacts
for getting the kind
of girls they wanted.
They crossed
Macl e a y Street.
“Where you going
• —the club?” Joey
said.
“How can I go to
to the club?” Steve
said. “You know
I’m off there.”
“Not going to let a few
ghosts worry you, are you?”
“It’s more than ghosts, I told
you. My name’s on the door
after the other night. It’s a
man’s own fault for getting
there elephant’s trunk.”
“Oh, the blue last Thurs-
day?”
“Yair.”
“How you going to have a
chance with someone, then?
You said you had a chance
with someone for a five-pound
note.”
“I have. We’ll have to wait
around opposite the club.”
“Can you snip Sorrowful?”
“No, he’s got a death-adder
in his kick.”
“Just as well I didn’t get
those sheilas for tonight.”
“You don’t need money for
those sheilas. You’re not
going to paint the town with
those rough broads.”
“But I told them we’d get
to the Starlight.”
“You’re always promising
rough sheilas good times with
somebody else’s Bugs Bunny.”
Tt was nine-o’clock, and the
two of them stood there
talking, and Joey kept passing
comments on people . who
walked past.
“Well, you’ve killed them
stone dead, darling,” he said
to one girl.
She was tall and blonde and
wore a tight skirt and
sweater. Steve admired the
girl, too, and thought he would
rather not be standing opposite
a gambling club he was barred
from on such a fine summer
night waiting for someone to
borrow money from.
“Hey, pay attention to who
goes in and out over opposite,
will you?” he said to Joey.
“That’s Mousey just come
out, isn’t it?” Joey said.
“Yair, that’s Mousey,” Steve
said. “I can’t snip him. I’m
already on his settling.”
“He’s seen us,” Joey said.
Mousey was well-named and
walked across the street with
his both hands in his pockets.
He had a small mouth, but
when he smiled his lips curled
right up and made his mouth
look big.
“How are you, Steve,” he
said. “Long time no see.”
“How are you, Mouse,”
Steve said. “What’s doing?”
“Very little, Steve. How
are you, Joey? Still shooting-
down mugs and giving cheek?”
“It’s a good trick to sort
out a mug lately,” Joey said.
“Everyone gets to a race-
meeting seems to be a smartie.”
“Get to the races yourself
today?” Steve said.
“No, I don’t fancy the mid-
week,” the man called Mousey
said. “I stayed home and
washed the car.”
“Any luck up there tonight?”
Steve said. He pointed to
the upstairs of the club.
“Yair, a little,” Mousey
said. “Positioned a mug and
got wages.”
“What at —gin?” Joey said.
“Yair, gin.”
“Who was it, anyone we
know?” Steve said.
“One of those Dutchmen,”
Mousey said.
“Was it Big Peter?” Joey
said. “He’s the biggest goose
in that team.”
“No, his big mate,” Mousey
said. He laughed and shook
his head. “He nearly had a
haemorrhage when he woke
I’d been falsing in the first
three games.”
“What’s on the card for
tonight?” Joey asked. “Still
got Pat?”
“Yair, still got her.”
“She’s all right?” Steve said.
“You’ve had her for a while.”
“Yair, she’s all right.”
“See you, Mousey!” Steve
said. Mousey was moving
away with his hands still in
his pockets and his bright
sports-shirt coming out of his
trousers at the back.
“Yair, see you,” Mousey
said.
“Oh, Mouse,” Steve said.
“Do you know Ben Ander-
son?”
“Yair.”
“See him up there?”
“Yair. He was winning, too,
I think.”
“Good ; thanks, Mouse.”
“Better leave us with an
African nigger before you go
Mouse,” Joey said.
“You’re good,” Mousey
said. He handed Joey three
cigarettes from a full packet
and lit one himself. He lit one
of the three for Joey and
waved to him as he blew smoke


from his nostrils and walked
off.
Toey walked back to Steve
** and handed him one of the
cigarettes.
“You’re not waiting for that
mad Ben, are you?”
“What's the matter with
him?”
“He would be the worst
squarehead in Steak-and-kid-
ney,” Joey said.
“So he is a squarehead,”
Steve said. “You don’t want
everyone to be a smartie, do
you? You wouldn’t live if it
wasn’t for squareheads.”
Joey drew on his cigarette.
“He backed a winner with
us today,” Steve said, “so I
know he’s got money. And
I tipped him the last winner.
Didn’t see him after, but I’d
reckon he’s had something on
it. He thinks you’re a genius
if you tip him a winner.”
“He’s a nice flea if you don’t
tip him winners, though,”
Joey said. “Wants to throw
barrels.”
“You’ll just have to im-
prove your ringcraft, then, or
learn to pick winners,” Steve
said. He was dry sometimes.
Joey said: “You know that
Pat must have the best set
in Australia. She used to wear
my cashmere jumper round the
joint. When she gave it back
it was eight sizes too big for
me.”
“When was this?”
“When I was staying in
Mousey’s flat. That time he
was sick.”
“There’s Ben over there
now,” Steve said. “Now we
might have to put a bit of
heavy work on to get that
five-pound note. How much
drinking-money we got?”
“I’ve got a deuce,” Joey
said. “We’ll all get John Bull
on that.”
“I’ve got six-og, “Steve said.
“Give me the two and that
should see us through. An-
other thing, Joey,” Steve said.
“I don’t want you to start being
a lair with this feller.”
“Whatever you say, dad,”
Joey said. “You’re the cap-
tain.”
“Hello, Ben!” Steve called
across the street.
The man called Ben had
walked about 20yds. from the
entrance to the club where a
Morris Minor was parked. He
was opening the door of the
car.
“Hello there, Steve,” he said.
“Going upstairs?”
“No, just walking. Thinking
of going for a drink, matter of
fact,” Steve said.
“Well, I could use one my-
self,” the man called Ben said.
“I'm going back into town
now. Like to join me for a
pot?”
“Yair, if you don’t mind,”
Steve said.
“Of course I don't mind.
Always pleased to have a drink
with a couple of racing
identities,” he said, and
laughed at his joke.
“Get a listen to this poor
imbecile,” Joey said.
By this time they had
joined the man called Ben at
his car.
“You sit in the front, Steve,
where you can stretch your
legs,” Ben said.
Joey got in the back.
Steve was about to get into
the car alongside Ben.
“Watch your loafer!” Joey
said.
Steve bent low and eased
himself into the front of the
small car.
“What’s this loafer?” Ben
asked.
“He means watch your
head,” Steve said. “Loafer
bread—head.”
“Oh, I see,” Ben said. “That’s
good.” He laughed.
Joey held his hand on the
left lapel of his jacket. He
whistled a tune and tried to
draw Steve's attention.
C'teve ignored him and went
on talking to the man
called Ben about the races that
day. Ben was about forty and
wore glasses. He was quite fat
and would have weighed about
15-stone. He had a very red
face, and what hair he had left
was sandy and almost color-
less.
“Yes, indeedy, Steve. I
followed your tip in the last.
Backed it each-way, matter of
fact.”
“I’d gone broke by then,”
Steve said, “or I would have
got stuck right into it myself.
Could have got something
from the joint, but I don’t like
doing it. You know how it is.”
“Of course,” Ben said. “It’s
not good business.”
The man called Ben -Ander-
son had a frock shop in the
city. His wife used to manage
it for him until she became
sick. Ben said his wife should
rest-up. He would never let
her go back to manage the
•shop. He was fortunate to get
a young lady who could
manage the shop very ably.
“That Miss Edwards still
managing the shop for you,
Ben?” Steve said.
“Yes . . . yes, she’s a capable
young lady, that one.”
“Very attractive girl, too,”
Steve said.
“Yes,” Ben said. “You know,
with a bit of luck I’d have
backed the programme there
today.”
Joey dug Steve in the ribs
when Ben changed the subject.
“They say you fancy a
young bird Ben,” Joey said-
“ What was that, Joey?
Young bird . . . Oh, don’t we
all?”
He laughed, and the other
two laughed with him.
“Where to for a drink,
men?” Ben said.
“Wherever you like,” Steve
said.
“What about the Standard?”
Ben said.
“Fine,” Steve said. “We
often drink there. Had a couple
there yesterday.”
Ben stopped the car along-
side a tram, and on the foot-
path beside them were a group
of American sailors and two
girls. Joey wound down his
window and leaned out towards
them.
“The fleet’s in! ” he said. “Get
back to Harlem, you im-
postors ! ”
“Haste!” Steve said. “You
want to get us all into
trouble?”
The tram started and Ben
accelerated quickly without
looking sideways, and a few of
the sailors shouted out after
them. Ben parked the car
outside the Standard.
They walked into the saloon-
bar, and there were four other
men drinking there, three in
a group.
“What are you drinking,
boys?” Ben said.
“Beer,” Steve said, and Ben
ordered two middies and a
Scotch-and-water.
The barmaid had a slightly
upturned nose and knew Steve
and Joey. Her name was Clair
and she was blonde and pretty
in a way, but wore a sour
expression.
Steve winked at her when
she brought their drinks.
“What’s doing, laughing girl?”
he said.
“Nothing, Steve; it’s been
terrible quiet here tonight.
What was the name of that
horse you told me about last
night?” she said to Joey.
“Flying Fox,” Joey said.
“Went for a bath.”
“Went for a what?” Clair
said.
“Blew out to e : ght to one.
Didn’t try a yard,” Joey said.
“I was going to back it,” she
said, “but I couldn’t think of
its name.”
“Lucky girl,” Joey said.
“You know little Danny
Walker?” the barmaid said.
“Trains Mister Stanley,”
Steve said.
“Yair, that’s the horse I was
trying to think of,” Clair said.
“I know him. He was in here
the other day, Danny, and told
me it’d win the Melbourne
Cup.”
“Yair. Hear about me?”
Joey said.
“No. What?” Clair said.
“I’m standing for Parlia-
ment.”
“Oh, youse don’t believe
anything,” she said. “Just be-
cause you never back a winner
yourselves there’s no need to
sling-off at everyone else. Any-
way,” she said, “I’m going to
back it.”
“You can back it with me,
dear,” Joey said. “Million to
one it starts and a hundred
to one against it ever winning
another race.”
“Oh, pooh ! ” she said.
She walked up and served the
man drinking on his own.
“Danny Walker!” Joey said.
, “Can’t fire.”
They talked for a while, and
Ben talked the most. He told
them how he had won at cards
and at the races.
After a while Joey said to
him: “That girl of yours, Ben,
she got any chinas you can
get away with?”
“Listen, Joey,” Ben said.
His face was redder than usual.
“You be careful what you say.
You’ve got a bad leg, I know,
but don’t play on it. That’s
just not the right sort of thing
to say to a man like me”
“He was only cracking
jokes,” Steve said..
“No joke if you can get a
knock-down to a choice young
bird,” Joey said. “Anyway,
I’m stalling to the braska.”
He headed for the toilet.
o Continued on page 45)
ROAD TO AVOCA
September walks the bellbird
road;
The single mile from Terri gal,
Ringing the swan-questioned
lake,
Wringing from light and leaf
a rain
That rings the reign of grace.
From every flowering campanile
Sabbath chimes in the spotted
gums :
With chink and clink and
interlink
Among the leaves a singing leaf
Lengthens the chain of praise
Till canon dissolving bird to
bell
And light to lilt enkindles me
And sprinkled with silver
aspergill, ■
I am a burning silent psalm
In the sanctuary's candled
sanctuary.
N.S.W.
R. ID. MURPHY.


of miles in all directions hold-
ing religious services- wherever
they could get half-a-dozen
people together ; camping with
swagmen one night, sharing
tucker with them, and dining
with a squatter the next night.
As all the Bush Brothers
were fully ordained, they could
marry, christen and bury
people. Most of them were
Englishmen who had taken
Orders, only to find there were
no churches for them in the
Old Country, so many came
to Australia to carry on the
job for which they were
trained. Around the back
country they travelled on horse-
back, and were always alone.
There were 10 of us camped
on the Paroo, and about four-
o’clock we saw a cloud of dust
on the road, then a horse and
rider came into view, pound-
ing along at a fast canter. The
rider saw our camp, and swung
off the road. He dismounted
and came forward with out-
stretched hand.
“I’m Feetham,” he said, “of
the Bush Brothers.”
After shaking hands with the
10 of us, he went on to say:
“I’m holding a service in the
town tonight, and I’d like to
see all you men come along.
It doesn’t matter what your
religion is, just come along
and I’m sure you will enjoy it.
I’ll give a short sermon, and
we’ll sing a lot of hymns.”
We promised to go to the
service, and he mounted and
rode off at a fast rate. A tall,
angular man, he rode with
arms and legs flapping, in the
typical English style. His dress
did not improve his appearance
on a horse. White pith-
helmet, coat which seemed too
small for him, and baggy
riding-breeches stuffed into
concertina leggings, made-up
an outfit which seemed out of
place on the outback tracks.
His horse was a huge animal,
more of the coaching than
saddle-type, built for strength,
not speed. But the sincerity and
good-fellowship of the man
made him loved and respected
all over the western districts.
His heart and soul were in his
work, and many a down-and-
out swagman had cause to
thank him for assistance given
when badly needed. He had
been known to nurse a man
for over a week through a bad
bout of the “horrors.”
A t the service, which was
held in the open, he began
with a short prayer, then spoke
for 10 minutes in a clear and
simple manner on the value
of doing unto others as you
would have them do unto you.
He did not ask for converts,
nor was there any collection.
He suggested “Rock of Ages”
for the first hymn. Then we
got a shock, as he was abso,
lutely tone-deaf, and was bliss-
fully unaware of it. He sang
in a loud voice, and halfway
through the first verse he was
the only singer left. It was
impossible to follow him, as
there was no rhythm or tune
in it, so all present gave-up.
This went on through five or
six of the best-known hymns,
till Dutchy could stand it no
longer. He offered to sing
“Abide With Me,” but insisted
that he sing solo. Feetham
agreed, and Dutchy did a
wonderful job. His clear tenor
had the crowd fascinated, and
they could not help applauding
when he finished. Being
mercenary-minded, I regretted
that I could not take the hat
round. Feetham thanked him,
spoke for about 10 minutes
again, then asked Dutchy to
sing “Lead Kindly Light.” The
meeting closed, after a short
prayer.
Though Feetham had several
offers of a night’s lodging, he
camped with us on the bank of
the Paroo. We sat a long time
yarning, and he asked many
questions about our experiences
on the track, and told many
stories of his own adventures
in the outback.
He rode off next morning,
with the good wishes of every-
one, the big horse pounding
along in a cloud of red dust.
One of the chaps commented:
“He can’t ride, and he can’t
sing, but he’s a damned fine
man.” With which we all
agreed.
HTo Barringun, along the
boundary-fence, was our
next trip. The country was
arid, sandy soil. Spinifex, a
tough grass with every blade a
needle-point, and low brigalow
scrub were the only vegetation.
Every step kicked-up a spurt of
fine red dust, which hung in the
air behind us. Our clothes and
bodies were covered with it,
and the flies swarmed in clouds
all the time.
We had been advised to carry
waterbags, and had also filled
our billies. But with a water-
bag in one hand and a billy
in the other, we were defence-
less against the flies, so the
billies were emptied, and with
a bunch of twigs constantly
waving we managed to keep
most of them off. The moment
the switching stopped, they
settled back like a mask on our
faces.
At midday we met six
camel-teams making for God
knows where. Great, lumber-
ing brutes, plodding along, with
their large loads swaying. With
their queer, rolling gait they
looked like prehistoric
monsters as they went past in
a cloud of dust. They were
mangy, slobbering brutes,
covered with sores, and swarms
of flies. I think camels are the
most unlovable animals in the
world. Apart from a couple
at the zoo, we had never seen
them before, and were not im-
pressed with these, except un-
favorably.
Their drivers tall, dark,
bearded men —looked straight
ahead, and did not cast a glance
in our direction, though we
were barely 20ft. from them.
I called out, “Good-day,
mate,” to the chap with the
leading team, but he didn't
answer. I remarked to Dutchy:
“Friendly lot of blankards,
aren’t they?” He replied:
“Wouldn’t like to meet any of
them on my own, unless I had
a shotgun.”
Barringun, on the Warrego
River and also on the
boundary-fence, like Hunger-
ford was noted for nothing
else except the usual flies, sand,
spinifex and brigalow. So,
reckoning we had seen enough
of the “Great Outback,” we
made for Bourke. The country
was very dry, the stock in bad
condition, and the squatters
unfriendly.
One chap whom we asked for
rations replied curtly: “Not
giving any, and if this bloody
drought keeps up much longer
I’ll be on the track myself.”
Dutchy, in his politest manner,
said: “Dear me, that would be
a calamity!”
But we had lamb-chops for
breakfast next morning. Mid-
night mutton. This was the
country “back of Bourke,” also
known as the land of “long
leads and short feeds.”
'T'wenty-odd miles from
Barringun, Enngonia was
noted for its loneliness. The
pub, store and post-office were
all in one building, which was
about the size of the usual
boundary-rider’s hut gable
and skillion, with the front
veranda closed in to form the
bar, and all built of galvanised-
iron.
To enter, one had to duck
one’s head, and after a few
pots of the brew served at Enn-
gonia one was apt to forget
to duck. The results were
disastrous, and the ensuing
language was, to say the least,
lurid.
There was a police-station,
manned by a solitary trooper
and a black-tracker. The
tracker was picturesque. His
uniform was the regular outfit,
down to leggings and spurs, but
no boots.
There were about a dozen
other houses scattered around,
but I never found out why
people lived there.
Enngonia is on the Warrego
River, but the river is very hard
to find in a dry time, though
the locals swore they had seen
water in it after heavy rains
in Queensland. We were too
polite to argue about it.
However, if Enngonia had
no scenic or architectural
features, there was plenty of
human interest. Being Satur-
day, there were men in from
all the surrounding stations,
with cheques to knock-down,
and all seemed eager to be
broke again in the shortest
possible time. Old men, young
men, middle - aged men,
SENZA RANCOR
“Good-bye” for you and me’s good-bye for ever;
the word means nothing but the fact of parting.
“Farewell,” a word that still has a trace of meaning,
is more than we could rise to ; we could never
imagine, ask for happiness and parting:
the strength we shared is weakness now for ever.
The “love” we were and talked of —it could never
contain our parting and have still its meaning.
No word of love then. Go, and come back never.
“Remember” is the word that says our parting,
but it’s not fond or future; it has meaning
more live than words are: it is ours for ever.
n.s.w.
RAT MATHEW.


bearded, moustached and clean-
shaven, well-dressed and
ragged, all seemed intent on
getting drunk.
Cheques were passed over the
bar, with the words, “Tell me
when this is cut out, boss.”
The bar was crowded-out, and
drinks were being passed over
heads to the men outside. In-
vitations to “Come an’ have a
drink” were heard in all direc-
tions. Sheep were being shorn,
buckjumpers ridden, dogs,
trapped, fences put up, dams
sunk, bullocks driven, and all
kinds of bush-work was in full
swing.
■pvERYONE seemed to be talk-
ing, but no one listened,
except Dutchy and myself.
Being swagmen, and broke, we
had nothing to talk about.
Also, we were waiting our
chance to earn a few bob when
the drinkers mellowed enough
to be interested in listening to
our songs. And when the
chance finally arrived, and we
were going nicely, trouble
started.
A character known as
“Snaky Smith,” who was as
snakelike as his name sug-
gested, insisted on joining in
the singing. As his voice was
something like a cross between
a dingo and a crow, he was
asked to shut-up. But he kept
up a running-commentary on
our. style, voices and songs,
and he was very unflattering.
Dutchy walked over to him
and asked him to give us a
fair go. Snaky answered with
a punch, which Dutchy, being
a good tradesman, easily
avoided, and then calmly pro-
ceeded to chop Snaky up. Like
most of his kind, he couldn’t
take it, and in less than two
minutes he was a battered
wreck on the ground.
He was dragged outside, and
left to recover. But just as
we had the crowd in the right
mood to take the hat round,
Snaky reappeared with a bottle
in his hand. He knocked the
bottom out of it, and charged
madly at Dutchy. Before he
got within striking-distance he
was borne down by half-a-
dozen men, and badly mauled.
I reckon he >vas lucky to
escape with his life. The
bushman of those days was a
great believer in fair play, and
if you were unlucky enough to
meet a man better than your-
self, and get a hiding—well,
you had to grin and bear it.
Bottles as weapons were not
looked on with favor, even in
a drunken brawl.
All the men were in agree-
ment that Snaky had brought
the trouble on himself and
deserved all he got. But our
night was ruined. The trooper
and the tracker came over and
asked a lot of questions. They
had a look at Snaky, then
ordered the publican to close-
up. So the door was shut, and
business went on as usual,
though no noise was allowed.
As we were passing the
police-station the next morn-
ing the trooper pulled us up
and warned us that if we met
Snaky in the future to watch
him closely. He remarked :
“It’s a pity the boys didn’t kill
him last night. He's a mongrel
through and through, and I'd
like to get something on him,
to put him away for ten years.”
I met Alf Harvey, who was
the publican at Enngonia at the
time of which I write, again in
1935. We re-lived the night of
the big brawl over and over
again. Alf, who is into his
eighties, is still able to get
around, and his memory is still
good. He is one of several men
I know whose reminiscences
should be collected. When in
Mudgee I always spend a few
hours yarning with him.
'"‘Ten miles from Enngonia, at
about two-o’clock, we were
plodding along fighting a
ceaseless battle with the dies,
too tired even to think. Though
continually thirsty and with
our watefbags nearly full, we
had to resist the urge to drink,
and content ourselves with
occasional sips, having learnt
the value of water and the need
for conserving it on those dry
tracks.
The heat was terrific, as
though coming from a bush-
fire, and there was absolutely
no movement in the air. Birds
had disappeared ; even the
crows —which seemed to be
always with us, as though
hoping for a feed of tasty
young swagman had gone.
Rabbits, which had been almost
as thick as the flies, had gone
down their burrows. Sheep
were huddled in tight mobs,
where they smothered in
hundreds.
Looking to the west we could
see a reddish cloud rising to
the sky, and wondered what it
was. Then the sun was hidden
behind a red pall, and a kind of
twilight took-over. Five
minutes later we looked west
again, and perhaps half-a-mile
away the red cloud was billow-
ing along the ground.
We had no time to prepare
a shelter of any kind ; not that
any shelter would have stood.
It struck with a roar, and in
less than a minute it was dark.
The air was filled with red dust,
bindii, spinifex-needles and
fine debris. We were in the
open, over a mile from any
timber, and took the full force
of the wind. We could not
stand against it, but lay flat,
with arms over our heads.
In a matter of minutes we
were covered with debris ; then
the wind seemed to come lower,
and we were swept clean again.
That is how it went on for
three hours, as near as we
could reckon. It was difficult
to breathe, and apart from the
air which scorched our throats
the dust filled our mouths and
nostrils. Any exposed part of
our bodies was stung by sand-
particles and spinifex till it
bled.
It ended as quickly as it
came. The wind stopped, a few
drops of rain fell, and the
“Darling shower” was over.
There wasn't enough rain to
lay the dust, but it cooled the
air. It left a scene of desolation
in its wake. That part of the
country is not noted lor beauty
at its best, but after the storm
it was iike a desert. Trees were
stripped of every leaf, many
were blown down, and fences
buried till the tops of the posts
were just showing. Acres of
soil were blown away, some-
times to a depth of eight or
nine inches. Even the spinifex-
clumps had been torn out of
the ground and sent rolling
along like the roly-polys of the
Liverpool Plains, till they piled
up in great heaps at the timber
that had managed to stand the
force of the gale.
Dead sheep were lying in
heaps in fence-corners where
they had run before the storm.
The crows were enjoying them-
selves immensely, and probably
hoping a “Darling shower 1 ”
would come more often. Of
course, the flies were back with
us as soon as the wind
dropped ; probably a fresh lot.
I doubt if even the western flies
could have survived in that
wind.
TX7e wasted no time in
getting on the move again,
“For time means tucker, and
tramp you must” is very true
in the outback. Fortunately
we had plenty of water,
although our food was well
sanded. But, as we had no
option, it was still edible. Swag-
men have to develop good
digestions, else it would be a
waste of time on the part of
the squatters to issue rations.
We camped on the Darling,
“the grand old gutter,” and
met a few old friends at
Bourke. Sid Bennett, who had
been cook at Charlton, wel-
comed us heartily, and as he
was in funds he got a feed
ready while we had a much-
needed swim. Steve Field
greeted us like long-lost sons.
A great old bloke was Steve.
We were then introduced to
another famous cook, “Jack
without a shirt.” No one
seemed to know what his other
name was. The story is that
he was cooking at Boorooma
many years previously, and,
wanting to give the shearers
a special treat, had knocked-up
a big duff, then discovered he
didn’t have a cloth big enough
to hold it, so he used his shirt.
At tea-time the shearers were
praising the duff, and backing-
up for second helpings, when
one of them, going into the
galley for a mug of tea, noticed
the shirt bearing evidence of


its use as a pudding-cloth.
Being a bit fussy, he com-
plained, and there was an
argument, during which the
shirt was torn to pieces. And
it was the only shirt Jack
owned. So till the cut-out he
went about his babbling
stripped to the waist, and the
name stuck.
He didn’t mind his nickname
in the least; in fact, he seemed
rather proud of it.
Tn Bourke the main topic of
conversation was the storm.
It had done a lot of damage in
the town ; many roofs stripped,
and several houses blown
down. About 20 people had
been injured, and there was a
rumor that two swagmen had
been killed by a falling tree.
This was not verified while
I was in Bourke. The stock-
losses had been very high. The
wind velocity had been offi-
cially recorded at 84 miles, and
the temperature at 114 degrees.
The dust had gone hundreds
of miles out to sea, and it was
the worst storm ever recorded
in Bourke.
Like all western towns
Bourke had a Royal Hotel. It
was said to have been painted
by Henry Lawson during his
stay there, and I often specu-
lated, as 1 sipped a shandy, on
the originals of his characters.
I think I picked one whom he
called “Awful Example,” but
who was known as “Dead
Finish” by the locals. There
were many who would have
fitted the part of Macquarie,
complete with dog. And
Mitchells were plentiful.
All the people we met were
very friendly, and we had three
good nights busking. So good
that we decided to become
law-abiding citizens and pay
our own fare to Nyngan. I
have to admit that we came to
this decision after we heard
that the train-crews were very
hard on jumpers; also, the
police always inspected the
trucks on every train leaving
Bourke after .dark.
In Nyngan, following our
usual custom, we interviewed
the sergeant, and he readily
gave us permission to sing in
the streets. (The long arm of
coincidence must have been
reaching out, for just 50 years
later I was at a gathering of
the Fellowship of Australian
Writers when one who was a
stranger to me sat at my table.
He introduced himself as Joe
Porter, which meant nothing
to me. But each of us knew, at
first sight, that the other was
a bushman, so we were talk-
ing of the outback in a very
short time. The climax came
when he said that he had been
a police-sergeant, and had been
stationed at Nyngan for several
years. In a flash, it all came
back to me: Sergeant Porter
was the man who gave Dutchy
and myself permission to busk
in the streets of Nyngan in
1907. Naturally, he did not
remember the incident, for, as
he said, “I tried to help any
man on the track as much as
possible, and if they were clean
and tidy, and not full of booze,
I never objected to them
making a few bob.” Joe
Porter is “Spinifex,” the writer
of many articles and pars, for
The Bulletin and other
papers. This is a long digres-
sion, but 50 years between
meetings is a damn’ long time.)
had taken a bashing
' by the storm, though not
as bad as many of the western
towns that had been in its
path. We had a good spin with
our singing, and our finances
were very healthy. And we
had another bit of luck. When
shearing at Mount Tenandra
the previous season we had
met a young squatter, Frank
Dowling, who owned. Walla, a
property of about 8000 acres
adjoining Mount Tenandra. He
had been very interested in
our singing, and, on a business
trip to Nyngan, he recognised
us and came over and shook
hands.
I mentioned that we were
going to Coonamble, and lie
said he would be glad of our
company, as he was alone in
a buggy and pair. Needless to
say, we rushed his offer with
ears back. He intended staying
at Haddon Rig one night,
Coonamble the next. Two
days, and it would have taken
us a week per boot, at the least,
being over 100 miies.
Frank saw that we were
fixed-up at the men's hut for
the night at Haddon Rig. We
were quite happy about this,
for we had not expected to
dine with the Falkiner family
at the homestead. Haddon Rig
was then, and still is, famous
for fine-woolled Merinos.
We went through Bullagreen,
and stopped for lunch at
Bourbah Hotel. This had been
one of the notorious lambing-
down pubs in the west, but had
grown respectable in old age.
Four or five miles from
Bourbah the road ran through
a cypress-pine forest. It was
like driving through a tunnel,
with the tops of the pines meet-
ing overhead. It was unique in
another respect, being the only
corduroy-road I had seen. Fine
sand, in which the horses sank
up to their fetlocks and wheels
went down a foot, it had been
almost impassable. So trees
about 9in. in diameter bad been
felled and laid side by side. Had
the upper parts been squared
it would have been a good job,
but the round logs made the
surface incredibly rough. Hie
bump, bump, bump, was nerve-
shattering, and as the horses
could not keep-up, except at a
slow walk, it took over an
hour to negotiate the four
miles of its length. We all
breathed a sigh of relief when
we bumped for the last time.
/'"'oonamble was reached in
the early afternoon. Frank
still had 20 miles ahead to
Walla, so, after spelling his
horses and washing the road
dust down, he went on.
Frank Dowling was the
second son of Vincent Dowling,
of Lue and Gumin stations,
and was a gentleman in every
sense of the word. He was
just as happy and friendly with
a swagman as with his fellow-
squatters. I last saw him in
Gulargambone in 1952. He
was then about 70, and looked
good for a long time yet.
T\7e built-up our bank in the
’’ two nights we had in
Coonamble ; then were offered
jobs at Wingadee with a con-
tractor.
Burning-off dead timber is a
hot game at any time, but in
the summer it is hell. Apart
from the heat we had snakes
of all descriptions to contend
with. There were 40 men on
the job, made up of six axe-
men, 30 “stick-pickers,” or
“emu-bobbers” whose job was
to pack the timber in heaps,
and four men who lit the fires,
so the job was completed in
one operation.
As the snakes were travelling
in front of the fires, the further
we went the thicker they
became. As an axeman going
ahead and cutting down the
small timber I soon developed
the habit of keeping my eyes
on the ground, and could stop
on the instant, with one foot
in the air like a pointer dog,
and leap sideways or back-
wards without thinking, as the
occasion demanded. Ever since
Wingadee I have had a very
casual approach to any reptile.
The “emu-bobbers” had the
worst job. A snake can look
remarkably like a slender
branch in long grass, and every
day you could hear a string of
curses and see one of the men
jump back after just missing a
“Joe Blake.”
Emu-bobbing, for the benefit
of those not versed in the
“slanguage” of the bush, is
picking up the fallen timber.
At a distance a group of men
bending head-down and tails-
up look very much like a flock
of emus.
Dutchy was one of this gang.
We had knocked-off for lunch,
and had gathered in the shade
of a wilga-tree, and Dutchy,
who had been on the end of
the line, was strolling casually
towards us. Fifty yards from
our tree he saw' a log that had
been missed lying in some long
grass, and, being of tidy nature,
he hoisted it on his shoulder,
and kept coming. The log
was a mere shell, and we were
horrified when 3ft. of brown-
snake slid out of the rear and
waved wildly to and fro,
apparently afraid to drop to
the ground.
Everyone yelled “Snake! ”
Dutchy, wondering what all
the commotion w'as about, and
puzzled by our behavior, was
getting closer. As it was
evident he was going to drop
the log on the fire nearest us
we made off in all directions.
Then the snake decided to
reverse, and swung out of the
front end. He then seemed
to realise he was in a worse
position, and stiffened himself,
and stared at Dutchy. For per-
haps 10 seconds man and snake
posed, with heads barely a foot
apart. Then Dutchy heaved
the log away, and the snake
went for its life into the grass.
When we came back, Dutchy
grinned and said, “Cripes, that
cow was trying to mesmerise
me.”
We were camped on a bore-
drain, and, like a lot of
artesian bores, the water was
hot and highly mineralised. An
Indian hawker came to the
camp, and I bought a pair of
moleskin pants from him.
Moleskin was great wearing
stuff, but when new it was
stiff with lime and glue, so had
to be washed before wearing.
Being averse to washing
clothes, unless it was very
necessary, I pegged the strides
down in the bore-drain,
reckoning the fast-flowing
water would do a good job
without any effort on my part.
It did. In the morning when I
went to retrieve my pants there
were a few shreds of material
still hooked on to the wire I
had pegged them to. The soda
and lime in the water had done
their work too well.
(To be continued next week )


SPORTING
NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Sydney Horses
Huntly, which won the
Banjo Paterson Handicap, and
On Line, which won the
Henry Lawson Handicap, at
the A.J.C. January meeting at
Randwick, look like repeating
their successes in the Chal-
lenge Stakes and the Anni-
versary Handicap respectively
at Randwick next weekend.
Both won stylishly, and should
finish ahead of any horse
which followed them to the
post last Saturday.
• • • •
Huntly won the Carrington
Stakes with 8.6 and last Satur-
day’s sprint with 9.1, and drops
to 8.12 in the Challenge, in
which the only likely dangers
may _be Gold Stakes,- Greater
and Royal Kingdom. On Line
carried 7.3 to victory over
Lord Cortauld and Bystander,
and is similarly weighted for
the Anniversary Handicap, so
it will take a solid middle-
distance galloper to lower his
colors in that race. He has
won at 12 furlongs in novice
company. Ulandra, easy
winner at Canterbury on
January 10, should be next-
best, while Aqua Boy, Ruth-
less Don and Lord Cortauld
are others with prospects.
Progeny of Good Brandy
(imp.) offered at the Randwick
yearling-sales last Easter were
popular with buyers. Racing
in several States, they have
won and filled minor places
in two-year-old events. They
are competing in their first
season, and a number have yet
to sport silk. Tamberan, which
cost Mrs. M. L. Sudholz
1500gns., was an impressive
winner of the First Two-year-
old Graduation Stakes at
Randwick. The handsome colt
is trained at Warwick Farm
by Ernie Fellows, who had
him in fine fettle for his open-
ing success. At his only prior
start he had finished second to
Perouse on New Year’s Day.
Tamberan had no trouble in
beating the odds-on favorite
Akimbo and Golden Lady.
• • • •
Karendi won £23,694 in
stakes. A brilliant performer,
his successes included the
Q.T.C. Stradbroke Handicap
and the A.J.C. Doncaster
Handicap. Molong studmaster
G. A. Smith, who bred Iturbi,
wasn’t happy over the lack of
interest taken in the Karendi
yearlings at the Randwick
auction last autumn, and a
number were passed in when
modest prices were bid. Iturbi
is a Karendi three-year-old
gelding, and won the Randwick
Maiden Handicap for that age-
group, thus improving upon
his second to Wilcumian* three
days earlier.
Rosebery trainer Gordon
Brown has been a iong time in
racing, and was once a leading
trotting-driver. He has won
"No, no —THIS one!”
a number of important handi-
caps at Randwick and at Bris-
bane with gallopers, but lately
hasn’t had any luck with
Turkestan, whose form has
slipped since he won the A.J.C.
Epsom Handicap last October.
Leading jockeys G. Moore and
M. Schumacher, and appren-
tice K. Smith, have been tried
on the four-year-old, who is
a top galloper on the training
track. Turkestan again missed
a place in On Line’s Randwick
race. However, Brown did
have a win last Saturday with
Royal Pastime in the First
Henry Kendall Stakes.
Royal Conquest completed
a double for Warwick Farm
trainer E. J. Fellows when he
won the final Randwick event,
the Second Henry Kendall
Graduation Stakes. It was the
first double Fellows has won
at A.J.C.’s headquarters. Royal
Conquest did all his early
racing in Victoria, but his
second Sydney start, when
fourth to Robin Tout at Can-
terbury Park on January 3,
indicated prospects in similar
company, and G. Moore again
had the mount. As Royal
Conquest is now rising seven,
he has been a long time getting
out of the restricted class. He
was bred in New Zealand and
is by Ruthless (imp.) from
Vetan by Balloch (imp.).
' Owners of two-year-old
Chartwell paid 2300gns. for
the good-looking black colt
at the N.Z. yearling-sales last
year. Trained at Randwick by
one of the part-owners, R. W.
Roden, Chartwell made his
first appearance jn public and
ran a promising though distant
fifth to Tamberan. Chartwell
is a half-brother to Victoria
Derby winner Sir Blink. His
brother, Dark Spot, also has
won races in Melbourne. He
is also related to Rising Fast,
winner of 24 races and £66,765
in stakes. Chartwell is by
Summertime (imp.) from Inky
by Sir Beau.
The usual crop of N.Z. year-
lings sold at the sales now in
progress there will find their
way to Australian cities, and
owners expect them to hit the
headlines before this year
closes. Randwick mentor
Frank Dalton paid a big price,
3400gn5., for the bay colt by
Gabador (imp.) from Ajadyne
by Ajax on the first day of the
auction. The youngster is a
half-brother to Atellor, which
won five races before being
shipped to America, and to
Tsajadyne, a winner at Rand-
wick- and Canterbury. He also
is related to Pride of Egypt,
winner of £21,956 in stakes.
. Woodlands Wonder was the
only prior winner engaged in
the Second Two-year-old
Graduation Stakes at Rand-
wick. The Newtown Wonder
filly had an easy task, experi-
ence being a factor in her
success. Beechly, which has
had three prior starts, was pre-
ferred in betting but finished
second. He had every chance
but found the Newtown
Wonder filly much too smart.
Raiburn, also by Newtown
Wonder, filled third place.
Bookmakers had a heavy
settling over the January
Rand w i c k meeting —in
the eight races five favorites
and three second-favorites
were successful and longest
starting-price was 3 to 1. That
would be an unusual sequence
for Randwick but was naturally
appreciated by punters, 22,500
of whom attended the fixture.
In most cases form worked out
correctly. In the Adam Lindsay
Gordon Handicap one of the
winning favorites, Lochie,
backed from 2’s to 5 to 4,
gave the much-travelled senior
jockey C. Kelly his first Rand-
wick success.
Though she hadn’t been
closer than fifth in four prior
races Canny was made second
favorite for the Three-year-old
Maiden at Randwick and once
again the disappointing filly
handed out a poor run, finish-
ing in the ruck and at no stage
flattering supporters. She had
been racing over longer dis-
tances than a mile, and why
she should have been so
popular in view of a series of
poor displays seems surprising.
She had run fifth at a mile-
and-a-half at her previous
start. Yet she always gallops
well enough for trainer E. D.
Lawson.
Tried and found wanting in
all types of minor races, four-
year-old Meska cracked it for
a win at long last when he
finished strongly in the Second
Canterbury Park Maiden
Handicap at the S.T.C.’s mid-
week fixture. Meska is by
Emir-El-Said (imp.), who has
had few runners to date.
Barrister, highly fancied for
the race, finished in the ruck.
Saima, having her first run
for Tom Kennedy—she has
had other trainers, and as a
yearling was bought by Adolph
Basser for 1900gns. was
backed from 14’s to 7’s for the


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO PERCY WILLIAM THOMAS
DYMOTT late of Speers Point near New-
castle and of Gosford.—TAKE NOTICE
that JOAN DYMOTT has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3969 of 1958 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Divorce Office Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by 27th March 1959 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from THOMAS ALFRED INGLIS
BRA YE, Solicitor, 7-9 Newcomen Street,
Newcastle.' —J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
First Highweight. She hadn’t
raced since August last, and
few thought her ready for a
first-up win. It was Saima's
fourth win at Canterbury —she
hasn’t been successful on any
other track. Her first win was
in March, 1957. She is by Delta
from Ajixa. Her half-sister
Pantomime was a brilliant
performer.
* * *
Melbourne Racing
The point was made here a
couple of weeks ago that the
Westralian mare Dawdie,
w'hich was brought to Victoria
in the spring to try to win one
of the big cups, was better-
class than most summer
gallopers. Although she was a
last-start winner, many race-
goers at Moonee Valley last
Saturday thought the task of
lumping 9.5 in the extra-
ordinary conditions—it was
108.5 at the time the race was
run—would be too much for
the Remarc mare. Although
she is only pint-size, Dawdie
made light of her burden to-
win the 10-furlongs Magdala
Welter at the generous odds
of 13 to 2.
After the buffeting she
received in last year’s Mel-
bourne Cup, owner J. G.
Money was inclined to retire
the mare to the stud, but
trainer Angus Armanasco was
sure Dawdie had more rating
in her, and her summer form
has proved his point. Inciden-
tally, Dawdie’s ability to spot
weight to the horses —she gave
up to 221 b. on Saturday —
suggests that owners of
gallopers just short of top
handicap form would be well
advised to concentrate on
summer racing rather than on
trying to win the rich handi-
caps in the spring and autumn.
Mention has been made here
before of young Warrnambool
trainer Kevin Lafferty and his
knack of buying horses cheaply
and winning jumping races
with them. In the space of
four days last week he won
four jumping races. At the
summer meeting in his home
town Warrnambool R.C.
makes a feature of cross-
country events he won the
Booval Steeple with Flanders
Field, the Breakwater Hurdle
with Minjin, and the Summer
Steeple with Solight. At the
Valley on Saturday he took the
Tweedside Trial Hurdle with
Meadow Prince. The odd
thing was that Meadow Prince
was a 33-to-l outsider
generous odds for any jumper
Fafferty enters in a race. It
seems strange that the progeny
of Meadow Mist, who gets
mainly sprinters, can win over
a jumping course, but Meadow
Prince is not the first of his
sire’s stock to succeed at the
cross-country game. Pitter is
another of his stock to win his
share of jumping events.
Possibly the secret of
Lafferty’s success with horses
discarded by other trainers is
his idea that horses are as
individual as are humans. He
feeds and trains each of his
charges according to his own
idea of its personal needs.
There must be something to
his theory; he seems to be
able to get a race out of every
horse in his stable.
It was a good day at the
Valley for provincial trainers.
Following Lafferty’s success,
Wangaratta trainer Hal Hoy-
sted took the Niddrie Handi-
cap with Golden Haze. It
seems clear that Hoysted has a
brilliant two-year-old in this
Smokey Eyes-Ancilla gelding.
At his only previous start,
Golden Haze had romped in
by six lengths in a maiden
event at Wagga. In the six-
furlongs Niddrie Handicap at
the Valley, Golden Haze beat a
promising youngster in Kent,
and he cut out the distance in
1.12 f. Granted that summer
times are misleading, that is a
very smart gallop for a two-
year-old around the circular
Valley track.
Melbourne racegoers are
learning to respect form in the
north-east of Victoria and
around the Riverina district.
Golden Haze is only one of a
long line of horses which have
come from that area to city
wins. It is probable that form
in those parts is much better
than that shown on country
courses reasonably close to
Melbourne, where the fields
are usually made up of horses
which have failed in the city.
There are very few better
jockeys riding in Melbourne
at present than Westralian
Frank Treen. He had a lot
to do with maiden performer
Kiandra’s success in the mile
Kalkallo Handicap at the
Valley. Kiandra had been
weakening in previous races
over six furlongs, and yet with
Treen in the saddle the High
Peak gelding led from barrier
to line and found an extra
effort when the pressure was
on in the straight. It was a
triple success for Roy Roach.
He bred the gelding, owns it
in partnership with his wife,
and trains it. Roach is one of
the few men who have com-
bined the training of gallopers
and trotters. On the Friday
evening before his Valley
success one of his charges won
a trotting event at Ballarat.
Talking of the gulf between
spring form and summer form,
the breadth of that gulf was
well indicated in the five-
furlongs Caldermeade Handi-
cap. Rhexia, which had won
three races on end, was rightly,
according to summer form, a
two’s-on chance in the race.
The Rego filly Snowflower,
which had won one race in the
spring and been placed in three
others, was a drifting 6-to-l
chance, but in the run along
the straight she was able to
wear Rhexia down to win
narrowly. J. McA. Rankin,
who owns Snowflower, realises
clearly that the best-class
youngsters are not out at this
time of the year, and he will
plan Snowflower’s programme
to dodge the top fillies.
The w.-f.-a. scale has stood
the test of a very long trial
under field conditions, and it
received a further justification
when Planetoid ran out of a
place in the sy-furlongs
Argyle Handicap, richest event
on the Valley card. According
to the scale, Planetoid, a
three-year-old, should have
carried 8.6 in the event. The
handicapper allotted him 9.0,
and although he led to the turn,
Planetoid could not hold off the
challenges of the older and
favorably-weighted horses.
* * *
The Trots
Before a crowd of 20,000-
odd champion pacer Fettle out-
classed a strong field with an
all-the-way win in the Harold
Park Free-for-All on Friday
night. Starting at 2-to-l on, he
beat Diabolo Don by three-
quarters of a length, with
Sibelia \\ lengths away third.
Fettle ran the furlongs in
3min. 5.25ec., which broke the
record set by Mineral Spring
in October, 1956, by 2.4 sec.
Going to the front early,
Fettle was trailed by Sky High
and Diabolo Don until the
final half-lap, when Diabolo
Don threw out a strong
challenge, but driver Hayes
was able to maintain -his lead
to the finish.
Sibelia ran the usual honest
race, coining from fourth at the
bell to lead Tasmanian Col-
laborate, who showed his first
flash of form at Harold Park,
into third place. Sky High,
resuming after a long spell,
was not disgraced to finish
fifth.
The fourth, fifth and sixth
qualifying divisions of the
Carnival Handicap were
respectively won by Van Ray,
Ebony Point and Victorian
Heroic Action. Heroic Action
(3-to-l on) ran easily the best
time, 3min. 38|sec., and will no
doubt start a hot favorite in
the final on Friday night.
Five-to-four favorite for the
fifth heat, Ross Lawn, paced
well for the first half-mile, then
slackened speed, and, in spite
of driver Alf Phillis applying
the whip vigorously, he con-
tinued to lose ground and
almost came to a walk when
he was pulled up.
• • • •
New Zealander Excellenza
scored her first win in Aus-
tralia when she won the £IOOO
Trotters’ Cup by three-quarters
of a length from Victorian
Carlotta’s Pride, with Gather-
ing Gold only a nose away in
third possie. A check just
before entering the straight
probably cost Carlotta’s Pride
the race. She was trotting very
strongly at the finish.
* * *
The Cricketers
The third Test petered-out
into a draw, as it looked like
doing from the time May and
Cowdrey got set in their big
second - innings stand. Aus-
tralia had a slight edge most
of the game. Factors which
worked against an Australian
win and in England’s favor
were that unnecessary loss of
two-thirds of a day’s play on
the Saturday, and loss of pace-
bowler Meckiff in England’s
second innings.
England must now win the
remaining two Tests if it wishes
to retain the Ashes. A draw in
either match is no good. It
can thus be assumed that
England will play more attack-
ing cricket than it has to date
—defensive cricket should be


“out” as far as May and Co.
are concerned.
Both teams have problems
to solve. England needs some
batting support for May and
Cowdrey, particularly as far
as opening-bats are concerned.
(Those two fine batsmen, it will
be recalled, were the backbone
of England’s batting in ’54-55,
too.) Australia’s main worry
is to find another bowler or
two. Slater was not too im-
pressive. Off - spinner Burke,
who took 2-26 in England’s
second innings, could be made
more use of —he is seldom
bowled as much as he might be
in first-class cricket.
Opening-bat Les Fav ell
appeared to have established
himself in Australia’s Test-
team after enterprising (even
though not particularly big)
knocks in the first three
1954-55 Tests against England;
but then he was 12th-man for
the fourth Test and failed
twice in the fifth. He regained
the Test side in the fourth Test
against West Indies in 1955,
when he made 72 and 53 (run-
out), but was then passed-over
completely for the 1956 tour
of England. Last season in
South Africa he batted very
well all through, but could not
get into the Test side. His 54
in the recent third Test against
England, batting lower down
the list, should help to con-
solidate his Test place now.
He’s a bright bat when he gets
going.
“R.L.”: Thought Johnny
Moyes was joining in the
Meckiff controversy when I
heard him say, “These England
fast-bowlers throw well,” but
his next words put me wise—.
“That return of Brian Statham’s
from near the boundary landed
right over the wicket.”
* * *
“Zingo”: In our junior-
grade (Sydney) cricket-team
the first-wicket fell at 1 ; two
runs later the second-wicket
crashed. Thereafter the scoring
was slow and infrequent.
Reason? Demoralising effect
of the “star” opener's early
dismissal. Because he’d made
good previous scores (around
the 80-mark a couple of ’em)
the team regarded him as a
necessary pillar. It just shows
how dangerous it is to pin
unshaking faith on one man.
You can never tell, of course,
exactly how a game will end ;
“Turn a bit more this way, sport!”
but like, say, a well-trained
choir, a cricket-team must be
both an individual and collec-
tive effort. Expecting all the
work to be done by one man
just isn’t cricket.
* * *
Other Sports
Australian golfer Bruce
Crampton won the seventh
Far East open championship
by nine strokes from Japan’s
H. Kobari. Crampton finished
with a one-over-par total of
289 and received 10,000
Philippines pesos (£A2232) for
the effort. Australian golfers
finished third (von Nida),
ninth (Nagle) and eleventh
(Cremin), with Cowling and
Phillips further down the list.
* * *
While the Australian
cricketers couldn’t make it
three in a row, Australia’s
speedway riders have done
so. After being overwhelmed
in the second Test the week
before, England went down
fighting gallantly in the third
Test of the five-Test series, in
Sydney on Saturday night, to
give Australia an unbeatable
3-0 lead.
* * *
John Konrads, in winning
the N.S.W. 220yds. freestyle
title on Saturday night in 2min.
2.25ec., broke his own world-
record for 220yds. (2.3.2) and
the Japanese Yamanaka’s 2.3
for 200-metres. Konrads now
holds the eight world freestyle
records from 200-metres to
1650yds. It is a measure of
his swimming quality—as it
has been, in like circumstances
in recent years, with Lorraine
C'rapp and other young Aus-
tralian swimmers and swim-
meresses —that it was news
when he failed to set a new
world-record (by a mere tenth
of a second) in winning the
N.S.W. 440yds. event a night
or two earlier.
Last Wednesday night lisa
Konrads set world-records for
the 1650yds. and 1500-metres.
There was no previous record
for the 1650yd5., but the time-
limit set by the F.I.N.A.
(20min. 30sec.) was easily
bettered —her time, 19.25.7.
Previous world - record for
1500-metres was Jan Koster’s
20.3.1, which was 37.45ec.
slower than lisa’s new time.
• • • •
“Veryl”: John Konrads’s
world - record under - 9min.
880yds. freestyle (B. 14/1 /’59)
has been described as “the
greatest swim of all time,” and
it could well be that. It was
certainly a “sensational” swim.
At the Australian swim-
ming championships in
January, 1955, Murray Rose
won the 880yds. in 9min.
49.85ec., first swimmer to win
the Australian title in under
lOmin. A “sensational”
enough swim ; yet in four
years Konrads has clipped
nearly a minute off Rose’s
time.
* * *
“Canopus”: Could I make
two comments on the article
on the Burns-Johnson fight (B.
24/12/’58)? (1) The taunt-
ing in the ring before the bell
did 20 times more damage to
Burns than to Johnson;
Tommy was green with temper
or what-you-like. (2) The
terrific punch which nearly
finished the fight in the first
round was delivered while Mc-
Intosh was holding Burns after
separating the boxers . . .
Johnson promised to finish it
off in the 12th round, but Burns
was so busy in that round that
Johnson’s grin almost com-
pletely disappeared and he
looked very anxious. As to
the fight being altogether one-
sided, there was as much cash
at evens after six rounds as
anybody wanted, and there is
not much sentiment among the
punters. I saw the scrap at
reasonably close range, though
not close enough to hear the
boxers’ remarks.
“Regel”: Echo of the Burns-
Johnson fight appeared in a
frame for years outside a Pitt
Street, Sydney, business-house
It was a certified Bank of
N.S.W. cheque for £6OOO paid
to Burns, “win, lose or draw.”
“G. Elburg” reminisces on
the Burns-Johnson fight:
I saw the Burns-Johnson fight-
in the Adelaide Town Hall. The
photography was superb, but, it
being many years before talking
films, Johnson’s running remarks to
Burns were inaudible, though,
judging by the expression of the
ear-bashee, they were highly
unpalatable.
The opinion of the Burns
supporter that Tommy would have
won had the fight not been stopped
was surely a world-record for wish-
ful thought. Had it gone much
further the sequel would more likely
have been a coroner's verdict—with
Burns the subject of the inquest.
Johnson played with Burns for
10 rounds, grinning and talking.
Then he sailed in to massacre the
shorter man. No faster “heavy”
ever fought in the ring. It was ring
history that Burns had evaded meet-
ing Johnson for some time before
Mclntosh engineered the show in
Sydney, and a current story was
that he agreed on the understand-
ing, or promise, that the black
would throw the fight.
By the way, Burns, whose real
name was Noah Brusso, took off the
gloves later to sail into another
black opponent, the Devil.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE BRITISH POUND
"Press-comment on Britain’s
move towards converti-
bility of the pound:
London “Time and Tide” :
“Convertibility is the essential
attribute of every sound
currency. The. right to change
a currency into any other that
the holder chooses is the
classical test of honest money
and the final defence of the
individual against the pro-
fligacy of national Govern-
ments. The convertibility
formally conferred on sterling
and many other European
currencies, however, is a pale
shadow of this classical con-
cept. It applies only to those
residents of other countries
who do not already enjoy the
right to convert their pounds,
francs, marks or guilders info
gold or dollars at the official
exchange-rate, and it in no
way affects the strict control
that most Governments exer-
cise over the transfer of private
capital from one country to
another.
“For sterling, this limited
convertibility means that all
pounds held by persons resident
in neither the dollar-area nor
the sterling-area can now be
converted into dollars at the
official rate of exchange. Pre-
viously conversion was possible
only in overseas markets and
at a rate below the official
rate, though since February,
1955, the intervention of the
British exchange authorities
had kept the exchange-rate for
such transferable sterling
within one per cent, of the
official rate. Thus, in practice,
such sterling had been con-
vertible at only a trifling cost
for nearly four years and the
[recent] announcement merely
formalised the existing system
by making all non-resident
sterling convertible at a single
exchange-rate.
“It is difficult to see why this
technical step was not taken
much earlier.”
The same : “It is natural for
Britons to ask what does con-
vertibility do for us and to
be disappointed on learning
that apart from bringing some
additional foreign - exchange
business to the City it is un-
likely to make any perceptible
contribution to the nation’s
well-being. The true signifi-
cance of the decision, however,
is not to be sought in its
immediate or tangible effects,
but in the further progress that
it promises towards freer inter-
national trade and payments
and towards the achievement
of a wider and more funda-
mental convertibility.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph” :
“To keep the change in pro-
portion it may be compared
with the next step, to be taken
presumably some time next
London “Daily Herald"
THE BABY-SITTER CHANGES—THE BABIES DON'T
year. This would be to allow
people in this country [Britain],
and the sterling-area generally,
to use their pounds to buy
freely everywhere—including
the dollar-area. At present
there are restrictions, for
example, on the purchase of
cars or of stocks and shares
in North America, and on
holiday spending in all
countries. When these restric-
tions are moved the pound will
really be free.”
* * *
London “Sunday Times’’:
“Most people not engaged in
international business will find
the changes in the status of
sterling rather technical, and
will be content to realise that
the pound is a freer currency
than it was. They are right.
Convertibility in the sense of
liberty for anyone to buy or
sell sterling in exchange for
any currency and for any
purpose is at present quite un-
attainable and, indeed, un-
desirable.
“What has been done is to
make the pound a fully negoti-
able international currency
within the limits of British
policy on imports, tourist-
exchange and capital move-
ments. That is a great gain,
both for the strength of
London as a world financial
centre and for the cause of
freer international commerce,
which is always an objective
for a country like ours. Liberal-
isation of import- and other
restrictions should proceed as
our circumstances allow.”
r * *
Harold Wincott in London
“Financial Times”: “The
plain truth of the matter is
that a currency which is not
convertible is in greater or less
degree a weak or a disreputable
currency. Non-convertibility is
an admission that you are
following or intend to follow
wrong policies wrong in-
ternal, fiscal policies; wrong
external, trading policies. Your
own nationals can do nothing
about such policies—except to
throw out the Government or
Governments which practise
them. They have to hold the
disreputable currency—without
the option. But the only way
you can force a foreigner to
hold a disreputable currency—
or, to be correct, try to force
him to hold it —is by making
it non - convertible. And
demonstrably, the thing
doesn’t work. We [Britain]
ought to know. We tried it.”
* * *
London “Financial Times'’
editorial comment: “The
British move has been the
signal for similar action by
the other major European
currencies. Surprising although
it may seem at first sight, the
very act of making the pound
and other leading European
currencies convertible into
dollars has helped to dethrone
the dollar from its eminence.
For, once all foreign owners of
funds can purchase gold or
dollars at any time they like,
dollar-holdings lose their im-
mediate attraction. The dollar-
standard of post-war years has
come to an end. In the new
financial world which has come
into being, the major inter-
national currencies are more
nearly of equal standing.”
* * 9
Edinburgh “Scotsman” :
“Without any doubt the
Government’s decision to make
sterling held by non-residents
of the sterling area freely con-
vertible is a most important
one. For the time being the
ordinary citizen may consider
that it has no effect on him
because, unlike Frenchmen and
Germans, he cannot obtain
dollars for sterling. But the
effects on our [Britain’s]
national economy are bound
to become apparent before
many months are over. So
far the main voice raised
against the Government’s de-
cision is that of Mr. Gaitskell,
leader of the Labor party.
He makes no bones about his
conviction that a serious
mistake has been made.
“The Fabor leaders are pro-
bably acutely conscious of the
experience of the convertibility
experiment in 1947 when Labor
was in office. This move, how-
ever, is quite different from that
of 1947, which was forced
upon us as a consequence of
the American loan, and it has
all the appearance of having
been carefully and deliberately
planned. It is significant that
other Western European
countries are going to take
parallel action, and that their
currencies are also to be freely
convertible abroad from to-
day. The fact that they are
assuming similar obligations
as ourselves should reduce the
strain on us provided our earn-
ings of foreign exchange
derived from exports do not
fall too far short of payments
due for imports.”
* * *
London “Daily Mail’’: “The
loudest discordant note is that
struck by Mr. Gaitskell, who
speaks for the Socialist party
and, in this matter, for the
trade-unions. He thinks the
decisions a ‘serious mistake’
and ‘bad for Europe and


Services
wmm
cWS
n
C.B.C. services can contribute
to your personal comfort and
help to provide freedom
from financial care.
The C.B.C. provides
a number of special
services to aid you and
to lighten your work.
%BU!SHTBH YOUR LEISURE
A C.B.C. Savings Account is
the means by which many
customers build up funds to
make their leisure more
enjoyable.
fr/S'///,
“ft'
;s
The
Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. Savings Bank Limited
(DEPOSITS GUARANTEED BY THE PARENT COMPANY)
Britain.’ He adds: ‘Before
long we shall regret them.’
“These words cannot be dis-
missed as idle or inexpert. Mr.
Gaitskell is a former Chan-
cellor and an aspiring Prime
Minister. We must therefore
ask why he spoke them, and we
believe he did so for several
reasons. The first is the haunt-
ing thought of 1947, when the
£ was made fully convertible
and Britain lost in weeks dollar-
loans intended to last for
years.
“That was a wrong decision
at a wrong time. Britain had
a Socialist Government. Her
trade and investments had
suffered enormous damage in
the war. J>he was living on
borrowed money.
“No wonder there was no
confidence in sterling. No
wonder foreign holders of £s
rushed to turn them into
dollars when Mr. Dalton gave
the word ‘Go.’ Things are
different now. Our credit is
good and our trade booming.
Savings are high. The reserves
are healthy. Sterling is
stronger and the dollar
weaker.”
* * *
“Yorkshire Post”: “The
Government has every right to
feel satisfied with what has
been accomplished. Less than
a year ago the country was
shaken by the departure of the
Chancellor of the Exchequer,
Mr. Thorneycroft, on a major
issue of policy. He resigned
because he judged that the
defence of the pound
demanded even sterner action
than the Government proposed
to take. He wanted the esti-
mates for Government expen-
diture to be kept down, even at
the expense of cutting social
services. '
“A few months earlier, in
September, 1957, he had intro-
duced drastic measures against
inflation, including a seven per
cent. Bank - rate. Those
measures have proved effective,
and gradual relaxations have
become possible. The Bank-
rate is now lower than it was
when speculation against the
pound necessitated its sudden
rise. The credit-squeeze has
been ended, and other restric-
tions have been removed.
“During the same period, in
the words of Mr. Thorney-
croft’s successor at the
Treasury, Mr. Heathcoat
Amory, Britain’s economy has
been fortified at every point.
Over the past year we have
seen record investment, record
personal consumption, record
savings, a strong pound,
strengthened reserves and more
stability in internal prices than
we have had for years. In the
first half of the year we earned
a bigger balance-of-payments
surplus than in any whole year
since the war.
“If is a heartening record of
progress.”
* * *
London “News Chronicle”:
“In sending the pound out to
fight on the international
markets the Government is
taking a calculated risk. Labor
is bound to object and can
quite fairly claim that a use-
ful line of retreat has been lost
in the event of a run upon
sterling. The result of the
gesture remains to be seen. We
believe that the risk is worth
taking. The move has already
been welcomed all over the
world, including the Common-
wealth, but the immediate
impact will be upon Europe.
“Taken together, the various
moves will help to liberalise
trade. They are bound to pro-
mote, not hinder, European
economic stability. Already
de Gaulle has announced that
France will liberalise 90 per
cent, of her imports.
“Cries of increased unem-
ployment in Britain should be
assessed against the general
benefits that come from open-
ing up trade. There is no valid
reason why employment
should suffer. If it is too soon
to say that Europe is out of the


“Die Zeit ”
IN AND OUT OF THE LEBANON
wood, there is still every reason
to be hopeful of the decisions
taken in Paris, London and
the other capitals. A sound
and solid European economy is
now that much nearer.
“The language in which all
these moves are shrouded is
just part of the ritual. It is the
facts behind the language that
count; and since they involve
freer trade based on fairer
currencies we believe that all
Europe will gain.”
* * #
London "Spectator “ All
seems set fair for a continua-
tion of the present policy of
‘convertibility by stealth,’
which has been so successful.
For complete convertibility
has yet to be established.
British people still cannot
spend as much as they would
like on foreign holidays, they
are still deprived of a wide
range of American consumer
goods, and special arrange-
ments still have to be made
for British investors who wish
to buy dollar securities and
foreign investors who wish
to buy British securities.
Discrimination against dollar-
goods remains a feature of the
trading policies of most sterling
and many European countries.
To abolish these few remain-
ing restrictions on full conver-
tibility may not be possible
for some time yet, but policy
should still aim to remove
them.”
* * *
“New York Times”: “The
increased freedom to convert
10 Western European curren-'
cies into American dollars or
other money is a significant
step forward, though still far
short of the ideal of a world in
which international trade could
be carried out freely without
the limitations and obstruc-
tions implicit in non-conver-
tible currencies and without
governmental regulation of
imports and exports dictated by
currency - market considera-
tions.
“The most obviously en-
couraging feature of these
latest developments is the clear
testimony they give of the
increased strength of Western
Europe’s economy and of the
confidence with which Western
Europe’s leaders view their
economic future. These leaders
obviously do not fear that their
move giving foreign holders of
their currency free converti-
bility privileges will result in a
flight from their moneys
resembling in any way the dis-
astrous 1947 shortlived British
experiment with convertibility.
“Behind that confidence, of
course, is the remarkable
recovery Western Europe has
made from the destruction and
economic weakness which
resulted from World War 11.”
* * *
New York "Herald Tri-
bune’’: “No one would contend
that the currency changes
which the Western European
nations have worked together
to .achieve will solve all the
economic problems of the area.
Much remains to be worked
out in practice. But the con-
vertibility agreement marks a
big step on the road towards
European unity which the free
nations of the Continent and
the island United Kingdom
have been exploring since
World War 11.
“Benelux, the coal ard steel
community, the European Pay-
ments Union (which i s
destined to be superseded
under the new convertibility
arrangement), the Organisation
for European Economic Co-
operation, Euratom, Nato, the
European Parliamentary
Assembly, the European
Economic Community (the
‘common market’) and the
work that has been done to-
, , . , ,
ward the creation of a free-
trade area these are all mile-
stones on that road, in the
fields of economics, defence
and politics.
“They all demonstrate how
old rivalries and bitternesses
are being submerged in the
consciousness of the need for
a free Europe that can stand
as a unit before the threat of
militant Communism and the
competition of new nations
beyond the sea. And through
that unity the energy and
dynamism that have charac-
terised the Western European
peoples through so many cen-
turies can be canalised for their
own benefit and as a force for
peace and prosperity through-
out the world.”
"Washington Post”
"HE ASKED ‘HOW. ABOUT A FREE COUNTRY?'”
Mao Tse-tung
T ondon “Economist’s” dis-
counting of the theory that
differences between Mao Tse-
tung and Khrushchev were
responsible for the former’s
decision to relinquish his posi-
tion as Chairman of the
Chinese Republic:
“There seems little basis for
these speculations ; the official
explanation is plausible enough:
Mao Tse-tung has never
shown great interest in the
trappings of power ; and he
has personally done much to
develop Marxist - Leninist
dogma. Before the Com-
munists won power in China,
he had already written a large
number of works on this
subject; his literary output has
declined since.
“He may regard it as his
duty to round-off his life’s
work with an opus that would
bring theoretical Marxism
closer to Chinese, and Asian,
realities; Marx had based his
theory on conditions in highly
industrialised societies ; Lenin
had to do a lot of juggling to
adapt it to Russia, where only
a small industrial proletariat
existed in 1917. Mao pre-
sumably wants to transform
Marxism-Leninism into a
doctrine fully applicable to
societies that are still virtually
unaffected by any industrial
revolution.
“He may also be drawn into


WHAT LONDON “DAILY
MAIL” ARTIST EMMWOOD
WOULD LIKE TO SEE IN
1959
MR. BEVAN —to give up
farming and take up politics.
the field of ideology because
Mr. Khrushchev, and most of
the Soviet leaders, are keeping
clear of it. But he is evidently
not going into retirement. And
the tortuous way in which his
colleagues have handled the
news reveals their fear of ‘any
misunderstanding’ among the
masses to whom Mr. Mao has
been so long presented as a
godlike father-figure.”
I.G.Y.
/commenting on the end of
the 18-month Interna-
tional Geophysical “Year,”
“New York Times” notes that
it “has been described as ‘the
single most significant peace-
ful activity of mankind since
the Renaissance and the
Copernican Revolution,’ and,
search as we may, history does
not record any single peaceful
activity during the past 500
years to equal it in scope or
dimension. The laboratory was
the entire earth, its surface and
its interior, its oceans and its
atmosphere, the space around
it and the great mysterious
forces that operate within it.
“The participants were
30,000 scientists and techni-
cians in sixty-six countries, in-
cluding the Soviet Union. The
studies were carried out at
4000 principal stations and at
several thousand additional
temporary and volunteer sites
and stations, all at a cost
estimated to reach a total of
$l5OO million. The probing
tools included the most subtle
paraphernalia devised by man
to force nature to yield its
secrets including globe-
circling satellites and a rocket
that rose 79,000 miles in man's
first bold attempt to reach the
moon.
“While collective gathering
of data [has come] to an end
the analysis and interpretation
of the many thousands of
items collected and their corre-
lation will take many years.
In fact, some of the data now
collected may have to wait for
a Newton or an Einstein to
reveal their hidden meaning.
However, the data already
obtained have provided much
new knowledge, some of it
seemingly of profound signifi-
cance for man’s continued,
tenancy of this planet, and for
the possible realisation of his
age-old dream to voyage to
other worlds.
“For example, the 6,000,000-
square-mile continent of
Antarctica, instead of being a
single land-mass, now appears
to be a complex of island and
MR. DULLES —to give up
politics and take up golf.
mountain-chains. So much ice
has been found in Antarctica,
to depths of 14,000 ft., that the
amount of ice and snow in the
world must be revised upward
by some 40 per cent, from
3,240,000 cubic-miles to some
4,500,000 cubic-miles. A vast
mineral-rich region has been
discovered in the Pacific, with
millions of square-miles laden
with manganese, iron, cobalt
and copper of a value esti-
mated at $500,000 per square-
mile. An intense band of
radiation, increasing in
intensity with altitude, was
discovered at a height of 250
miles.
“A ‘fabulous record’ of the
activity of the sun during the
I.G.Y. has been obtained by a
perpetual watch. Evidence for
the existence of magnetic fields
in space other than the earth’s
own magnetic field has been
discovered, as well as of the
existence of solar X-rays low
in the ionosphere. Data were
obtained in support of the
theory that three globe-girdling
electric currents circle the earth
in the high atmosphere. Lastly,
and most spectacularly, the
launching of artificial satellites
by Russia and ourselves [the
U.S.] has ushered-in the Space
Age and the era of inter-
planetary travel.
“But the I.G.Y. was more
than a purely scientific enter-
prise. As Dr. Hugh Odishaw,
executive director of the
United States National Com-
mittee for the 1.G.Y., has said:
‘lt also has overriding signifi-
cance as a purely human
engagement without specific
reference to its subject-matter.’
For almost alone among
human enterprises ‘it achieved
international co - operation
among sixty-six nations in a
period of sharp and perhaps
unparalleled political unrest.’ ”
Japan's Wool Exports
■piGURES (from Bradford
•* “Wool Record”) to “illus-
trate how Japan has taken
more and more of the Ameri-
can market- for imported wool
cloth from the traditional chief
supplier, the United Kingdom:
Shake of Total Imports (Per-
centages).
1952. 1954. 1956. 1958.
(to Any.)
Britain .. 81.0 09.7 55.9 89.1
Japan . . 0.5 4.1 16.73 32.9
“Thus,” the same paper
comments, “in a few years
Japan has seized from us
[Britain] a large slice of the
U.S. market and looks like
ousting us as the leading over-
seas supplier. How has she
MR. EISENHOWER—to give
up golf and take up farming.
done it? Has it been fair
competition, with Japanese
cloth beating British on merit?
The answer is to be found
wholly in America’s tariff-
quota on wool fabrics, which
has operated since the autumn
of 1956 and which, according
to an announcement a few
days ago by the U.S. State
Department, is to continue [in
1959], It is too early yet to say
exactly what the amount wilt
be, because it is based on
recent American production-
rates, but it is unlikely to be
more than this year’s quota of
14.2-million lb.
“Because the race goes to
the swiftest, Japan has been
able to capture a rapidly
increasing share of the annual
quota. Her exporters have
poured-in plainly styled cloths
made speculatively and having
cheapness as their main attrac-
tion. British firms, on the other
hand, have been accustomed
for generations to making
expensive, highly styled fabrics
to the requirements of Ameri-
can customers of long stand-
ing. They are often intricate
cloths that cannot be mass-
produced, as Japan's are. As a
result, they are suffering
heavily from the quota, which
usually runs out in July or
earlier, leaving half the year a
sterile period brooded over by
a 45 per cent, tariff.
“Ironically enough, the
Japanese Government itself
has been obliged to curb the
enthusiasm of the cheap-cloth
merchants. It realises that
what is important is not the
yardage of cloth sold to
America, but the number of
dollars earned. It realises, too,
that before long the U.S. cloth-
manufacturers will be making
a mighty squawk about the
way their prices are being
undercut by the Japanese.
Consequently, a quota has been
placed by Japan upon ship-
ments of the cheap stuff, while
the sky is the limit for good-
quality, higher-priced cloth.
In this way the traditional
Japanese supplier to the
American market will be given
fair play as against the ship-it-
quick opportunist firm.
“And it is only fair play that
the British wool-textile industry
is requesting. If the quota has
to continue —the industry is
urging—let it be on a country-
by-country basis, to give a
reasonable chance to makers of
those highly styled cloths that
the Americans need most. By
its nature, the quota is an
imperfect instrument ; but if it
could be made to dispense even
rough justice it would be an
improvement on the present
situation.”
MR. KHRUSHCHEV -to
give up...


Are You a Genuine Pill-box?
By STEPHEN KELEN
An increasing number of
people are making them-
selves receptacles for
“happy pills,” pro-
fessed to ease tension, boost a
sagging ego, reassure and lull
to sleep ; in fact, do everything
except pay the chemist’s bill.
Talk about chain-smokers
and alcoholics! Gradually a
third, infinitely bigger, danger
—the increasing number of
pill-addicts threatens the
balance of our society.
Every new medical discovery
is followed by an avalanche of
new pills—some of them bene-
ficial, others harmful or almost
neutral, but all a danger if
taken unwisely. Vitamins are
certainly no exception.
Magic potions have been in
vogue, of course, ever since
man discovered that sicknesses
can be cured by herbs and
some of the concoctions made-
up by witch-doctors. But
“suggestibles” have never
been made more conscious
of ailments they are liable to
acquire or actually suffer
“without knowing about it.”
T>y every possible means of
communication they are
asked and told in affecting
details about suffering from
headaches, lumbago, rheuma-
tism, fibrositis, neuritis, insom-
nia, indigestion, stomach-ulcers,
loss of virility, irregularity . . .
and after taking it all in, sug-
gestibles usually find a few
striking symptoms and rush to
the nearest chemist to buy some
of the prescribed potions—so
easy to take in the form of
pills.
The slightest headache—and
down goes a pill. Unable to
sleep on a hot night? Business
worries? Why battle to attain
a soothing sleep of one’s own
accord when sedatives can do
the job faster?
The indiscriminate pill-takers
can be likened to car-owners
who wouldn’t even walk to
the next comer to buy a paper.
Why walk when you have a
car? What’s the good of going
to sleep of your own accord
when a pill can do it for you?
The final consequences,
resulting in complete enerva-
tion both for the motorist and
the piller, are ignored. The
man who was able to walk
miles without fatigue now
starts puffing after a few
hundred yards; the sedative-
seeker who previously managed
to go to sleep after half-an-
hour of trying to induce him-
self would keep on tossing and
turning for hours —unless he
takes his pill.
The slogaE-swallowers don’t
even bother to find out what
the “magic pills” are good for.
They delight in reading or hear-
ing those reassuring words:
“It’s good for you!” No ail-
“ Pyjamas, actually—had ’em tailored for when
I Wake-up late”
ments necessary. What a relief!
Perhaps disappointment?
Most pill-addicts usually
end-up as members of a
vicious circle. Those who
complain they can’t keep
awake go in for the “wakie-
wakies”; insomnia - sufferers
swallow sedatives. It stands to
reason that the drugs will turn
the scale of complaints in the
other direction, and they
finish-up being taken for
lethargy and sleeplessness as
well.
People taking pep-drugs to
make them keener in all aspects
of living usually conclude
there’s nothing really worth
getting peppy about, and turn
to tranquillisers, only to find
out that their existence is
duller than ever. There’s a
toss-up for them between end-
ing-up raving lunatics or
stupefied zombies with a
constant idiotic smile express-
ing nothing.
TTere are some of the Pill
Characters—with a little
bit of honesty you may even
recognise yourself as one of
them:
Those Who are Frightened
to go to the doctor because
he would unmask them as fakes
(fooling others) or imaginary
invalids (fooling themselves).
The Most Tragic Cases
pretend or imagine they are
being cured by pills and patent
medicines, frightened to go to
a doctor who might suggest
surgery. These are genuine
cowards, exact opposites of the
pretenders.
Smart Operators imagine
they know more than the
doctors, whom they delight in
calling “quacks.” They like to
be dazzled with the “science”
of patent medicines. Often they
take to old wives’ cures, or
even prescribed medicines
from friends —“It cured Bob,
so it should be okay for me
The Mean Ones won’t hear
of calling a doctor to diagnose
a sick member of their family
or themselves. They reckon
that by trial and error they
will eventually be able to find
the right cure without the help
of an expensive, interfering
doctor.
nPHESE types usually don’t
_ count the pennies so care-
fully when it comes to spending
on beer, races, sweets, a new
frock, cosmetics and beauty-
treatment. The men are often
jealous of the doctor, not
wanting anyone else to have
absolute authority over their
family.
The Lone lies have a thorough
approach to buying their
favorite pills, having more time
to read-up and scrutinise
patent-medicine ads. and
literature. They regard pills as
the best companions money
can buy. In the range of pills—■
to these strange companion-
seekers—there are all the
human emotions, such as
excitement, and comfort of a
soothing personality that one
would like to find in an ideal
mate or genuine friend.
' The Brazen Sympathy-
seekers in former times would
have exclaimed: “Pass me the
smelling - salts.” Nowadays
they simply produce .their
bottles and boxes of pills and
take them for all and sundry
to see. Then eagerly they wait
for the sympathetic inquiry:
“Anything wrong, dear?”
“What’s the trouble, old man?”
The very questions often have
the same mental effect as the
fulfilment of a love-affair has
for a normal person.
The Sentimental Psycho-
logical Warfarers have the
talent to take their pills at the
dramatic moment, cunningly
studying the effect of their
action on the audience.
Don’t think that only rela-
tives indulge in this kind of
practice to create sympathy
where love used to be. Ruth-
less businessmen and cunning
bosses have been known to
swing deals, induce employees
to remain in their service. In-
efficients practise it to play-up
“momentary indisposition.”
The Fashion-hounds are the
sophisticated intellectuals in
this grim pill-taking game.
They know all the latest
scientific developments, pro-
nounce polysyllabic cures,
indulge in party-talk on the


Steve had bought a round
of drinks before the beer went
off, and he stood talking to
Ben, and Ben smoking a cigar.
“Take no notice of Joey,”
Steve said to him. “I thought
you knew him better than to
take notice of him like that.
He's a funny kid.”
“I know that, Steve, and I
know he’s a mate of yours, but
you should check him on those
things. You never know who
might have been here drink-
ing with us and him saying
that.”
“Yair, I- know,” Steve said.
Steve thought Joey was right
about Ben being, a squarehead.
Ben’s face was almost back
to its normal red, and
Steve asked him for the loan of
£lO until Saturday, before
Joey came back.
Ben gave it to him and said
he was always glad to do a
mate a turn and things like
that. Steve said he appreciated
that a lot.
Steve and Joey left Ben
when the hotel closed and took
a cab back to the Cross.
“You get the five-pound
note?” Joey said.
“Yair.”
“Bet you had to operate on
him.”
“No, a painless extraction,”
Steve said.
“Yair, I bet. Nice square-
head, Ben,” Joey said.
V\fHEN they got out of the
cab Joey said, “No risk
you could get away with that
cabbie if you put some work
on.”
The cab-driver wore a
cravat and had blond, wavy
hair.
“He was a good style of
feller,” Steve said.
Steve had a flat at the
Cross and they went to it,
Steve saying he was tired and
wanted to get some sleep, and
threatening Joey about keep-
ing him awake.
The flat was small and was
on the first-floor of a block
of flats. There were two beds,
a dressing-table and a ward-
robe, and Steve's bed was by
a window that looked out on
a lane at the back. Steve sat
on the bed and blew smoke out
through the window.
Joey had stripped to his
underpants and was dancing
about the room snapping his
fingers and singing: “I won’t
dance, don’t ask me, ring-a-
ding-ding, don’t ask me”
There was a noise outside,
and girls’ voices, and a knock
at the door.
“Well, see who’s there,” Steve
said.
Joey pulled the door ajar
and poked his head through.
There was a girl there with
big eyes and long black hair,
and another girl, with two
American sailors. The first
girl had a good figure, but was
gaudily dressed in a black
skirt and red cardigan. She
had no stockings on, and had a
big mouth when she opened it
to speak.
“Joey!” she said.
“Gord strike me!” Joey
said. He turned and spoke
in to Steve. “The Beast of
Belsen.”
“Janey and Marcia,” Joey
said. He was speaking out
through the door again.
Steve heard Joey say,
“You're kidding, of course,”
and there was a scuffle and the
sailor’s voices raised as if they
were trying to get in.
Joey pushed against the doo r
and said, “Pooh, get away, you
molls! ”
Steve got off the bed and
went across. His size when he
opened the door seemed to
frighten off the sailors, who
were drunk, and soon the four
went off down the stairs.
“How about that!” Joey
said. “They only wanted to
lumber their sailors in
here —borrow the flat, if you
please! ‘Youse can find some-
thing to do for a coupla
hours . . .!’ ” He was taking-
off the girl.
“When did you have them
up here?” Steve said.
“Jazzer and 1 had them here
last night,” Joey said.
“You didn't tell me.”
“I was going to get them up
here one night and we'd have
them two out and surprise
you,” Joey said.
“Yair, surprise me. They'd
probably want to lumber a
couple of old wine-dots from
the ’Loo here with them. That'd
be real good.” Steve was in
bed and pulled the bedclothes
up to his chin.
“But that's the stretcher of
all time,” Joey said. “Trying
to empty us out of the joint
and lumber two Russian-tank
sailors in. You wouldnt
believe it, would you!”
Steve looked across at Joey
sitting on the bed smoking.
He was mad at him for having
the girls in the place without
telling him, and for being a lair
in front of Anderson.
But you can't help liking
him, he thought. He is such u
funny little monkey.
latest miracle-cures by drugs
alone. Their moment of
greatest triumph comes when
they ask the chemist for the
“latest pills'’ they have been
reading about in overseas
magazines that are at present
still unobtainable in this
country.
The chemist’s apology—
“ Sorry, that isn't on the market
here yet” gives them the
desired kick, and it doesn’t
even cost them anything.
Slimmers more often than
not take pills not because they
are overweight, but to satisfy
the very sentiments they harbor
against themselves.
■Excessive and indiscriminate
*- J taking of pills may
immunise one against the bene-
fits of drugs at a time when one
might really need them.
The journal of the American
Medical Association pointed
out that a number of U.S.
children suffer from vitamin-
poisoning, and recently the
number of adults suffering
from self-inflicted ailments for
health’s sake has considerably
increased.
A person may become a
recluse preferring pills to
human company. Some taking
pills excessively are all
wrapped-up in themselves ;
they “turn inside,” instead of
looking out at other people,
things around. Usually they
lose interest in their work and
friendships, and an over-
interest in their health remains
their only concern.
The pill-habit is an indica-
tion of selfishness, a lack of
sense of humor, inferiority-
complex and even a guilty
conscience into the bargain!
Financially, spending on
pills can be just as insanely
wasteful as gambling, drink-
ing, smoking and cosmetics all
put together.
In case you have already
turned yourself into a fully-
fledged pill-box, open for
reception (of pills) any time
during day and night, add-up
your pill-bills, and even the
strongest tranquilisers won’t
save you from getting worried
—that is, if you still manage
to retain some sanity and
rational thoughts!
'T'he unprescribed pill poses as
* the closest, most under-
standing friend and protector
to the hypochondriac—it is the
symbol of the kind person who
goes to all the trouble of
making it just to relieve you
from the agony of your often-
imaginary sufferings.
Pill-addicts develop a
passionate faith and often
physical craving for their
“medicine,” and sudden re-
moval may have similar results
to withdrawing liquor from an
alcoholic.
So here you might be on
the verge of, or already living
in, a world where only pills,
suggested and unprescribed,
matter. Or perhaps heading
in the same direction as, but
using different means of
transportation to, an ointment-
and liniment-applier in an
eternal quest for cures for non-
existent or incurable short-
comings, such as baldness, too
much or too little bosom,
waning masculinity, mysterious
aches and pains, under- or over-
weight, itches, fatigue, flat-feet
and a host of other imperfec-
tions.
Naturally there are thousands
of people genuinely needing
pills, taking genuine pills that
are good for them. If you, in
all honesty, can place your-
self in this category, you
needn’t bother about this
article, unless you care to
satisfy your curiosity,
I think it is time to organise
a Pill-takers Anonymous,
perhaps on the lines of the
Alcoholics organisation. It
might save thousands from
keeping on being—pilis.
EXODUS
In the beginning
In the beginning there was
Love, that’s what there was :
And love encircled the whole
world
Religion notwithstanding.
In the beginning
In the beginning there was
A love, and it was mine.
Frail and quick as a dragon-
fly’s
Sun-spiralled darting.
In the beginning
In the beginning there was
A finality, and even as we
spoke
The whole of Nature smirked
at us, unchanged :
Even the sun kept climbing.
In the end . . .
Ah, but who knows which way
the twig will bend ?
N.S.W.
ADRIAN WINTLE.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Alaska
The visit of Soviet Deputy
Prime Minister Mikoyan to
Washington, just after Alaska
had been incorporated the 49th
of the United States, must have
aroused chuckles among
American historical re-
searchers.
The Russians themselves
have probably forgotten that
they once owned Alaska, but
when the economic resources
of that territory seemed to
have been fully exploited they
offered it to the United States,
it was in March, 1867, that
the Russian Minister in Wash-
ington opened negotiations for
the transfer by purchase. The
price paid by the U.S.A. was
$7,000,200, a hefty sum for
a country undergoing recon-
Education
“Parent” does the N.S.W.
Department of Education a
disservice when he im-
plies (B. 7/1/’59) that its
attempt to classify pupils by
age is undertaken lightly and
without serious consideration
of the problems involved. The
department has never suggested
that all children of the one
age should be rigorously con-
fined to the one grade—its con-
cern is rather to prevent
children from being advanced
so prematurely that they be-
come misfits.
“If this is ‘modern’ educa-
tion, give me the old-fashioned -
type any day, when a child
was classed according to
ability,” says “Parent.”
Obviously he means scholastic
ability, but what of social
ability, and emotional ability?
Do they count for nothing?
Any practising teacher will tell
you that one of the worst
problems he meets in his class-
rooms is that of the child who,
because of his brightness, is
led to associate with children
who are emotionally more
mature and socially more
developed. Though their
academic attainments may be
similar, a 10-year-old rarely
fits in well in a class of 12-year-
olds. He is forced to fend for
himself, to protect himself
with inadequate weapons, and
the resulting emotional dis-
turbances sometimes mean
years of unhappiness for him.
Parents often have a snob-
bish pride in the fact that little
Johnny is 18 months ahead,
scholastically, of Mrs. Smith’s
Billy ; they are blind to the
fact that little Johnny’s teacher
regards him as an unmitigated
pest and his fellow - pupils
treat him as a baby and a
classroom butt, whereas Billy
may be captain of the class
and teacher’s right hand.
Children are cruel, and mere
scholastic ability means little
to them.
The Education Department’s
latest decision is in accord with
its policy that its schools shall
not be scholastic hothouses,
but places where well-rounded
citizens are moulded. —
Presbyter (N.S.W.).
“That the only Way you can stop smoking ?”
struction after a long and
disastrous civil war.
The transfer, completed on
October 18, 1867, and the price
paid were severely criticised by
many sections of the American
public, and for a long time
Alaska was called “Seward’s
Folly,” after the American
Secretary of State, William
Henry Seward, who had been
in charge of the American side
of the negotiations. The trans-
action, however, by pushing
another European Power off
the mainland of North
America, and preventing
further expansion of Canada
to the north-west, fitted in very
well with the Monroe Doctrine.
It also deprived Russia of sites
for atom - bases well within
striking distance of Canada
and the U.S. —although that,
of course, could not be fore-
seen at the time. — Pip Tok
(W.A.).
Wool for Comfort
Mrs. H. K. P. Wood, wife
of the chairman of the Inter-
national Wool Secretariat, is
as certain of wool’s assured
future as J. N. Bridgland (B.
24 /12/’5B). On a recent world-
tour she contrived to be always
well dressed but comfortable,,
whatever the restrictions of
air-travel or the vagaries of
climate. Six out of the seven
dresses she took for the three-
and-a-half months’ tour were
made of pure wool. They in-
cluded cocktail- and evening-
dresses and a silk-lined, trans-
parent flower - print, which
weighed only Bfoz. Australian
wool alone, she claims, is fine
enough to make such feather-
weight fabrics.
She found these woollens
perfect for travelling, because
they neither crease nor crush.
Hers, folded flat without tissue-
paper padding, rolled up in an
overnight - bag and washed
en route, emerged quite fresh
and rarely needed pressing.
They were also the coolest
wear, Mrs. Wood found,
during the 16 days she was in
India. In spite of the heat of
Bombay, she was much cooler
in woollens than those who
wore drip-dry cottons.
She says that there’s a great
future in Australia for these
finer woollen fabrics, light and
absorbent, which are ideal for
our climate. — Emel (Vic.).
The New Colonialism
Anxious to populate and
develop this continent at all
costs, Australian politicians
have gone about the job with
untidy and visionless haste. To
quote only one example: At
the recent Federal elections
the authorities deemed it neces-
sary to promulgate information
regarding democratic pro-
cedure in several foreign
languages for the benefit of
so-called naturalised Aus-
tralians. The question immedi-
ately arises as to how and why
these migrants became
naturalised and entitled to
vote —or rather are con-
strained to do so —when un-
able to understand either the
basic principles of our system
of government or the policies
of the contesting parties. Is
it any wonder that the
number of informal votes was
abnormally high?
Despite the obvious back-
lag in public-amenities in all
the capital cities, and the
equally obvious lack of oppor-
tunities for permanent settle-
ment of the newcomers in the
hinterland, the process of
cramming more and more
migrants of all descriptions,
skilled and unskilled, into these
urban ganglia continues apace.
Is there any considered plan
to this apparently haphazard
intake ; and if so, where is it
"pigeon-holed and why has it
not been divulged either to
Parliaments or people?
From the rambling state-
ments made from time to time
in Canberra it appears that the
hackneyed slogan “populate or
perish” lies somewhere behind
the political mind, just as
though an extra few million
would either deter an invader
or prevent him from making a
long-distance attack on one of
the half-dozen clots of popu-
lation conveniently distributed
around the east and south of
this continent.
A stranger paradox occurs
with regard to the country’s
economic development in these
post-war years. It is still
fashionable among Socialists
and liberals alike to look back
with revulsion, and even
horror, on the days of
colonialism —on the plantation
boards of the 17th and 18th
centuries; on the merchant


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to——
NAME
ADDRESS ,
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; % year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.J:
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to.\ country cheques ,
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to "The Bulletin" or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
adventurers; and particularly
on the India Companies, whose
activities consisted of the ex-
ploitation of the resources and
labor of undeveloped lands for
the behoof of some distant
metropolitan power. To be
sure, the exploiter did fre-
quently provide some measure
of improvement in the lot of
the native worker, some
medical care, necessary com-
munications, and an upward
■ move in living-standards, but
the real “lolly” went to the
foreign shareholder who sat
back and waited for its arrival
after the annual board-meeting.
To-day we have, at least in
principle, and as a result of
deliberate governmental policy,
this same exploitation of our
labor and resources for the
behoof of foreign and other
outside shareholders. Yet, and
in spite of this exploitation,
politicians persist in running
about offering the resources
and labor of their country to
anyone who will build a
factory or open a mine capable
of giving work to Australians,
who, in turn, will produce
dividends for foreign share-
holders from the natural
resources of their native land.
Is there any real difference,
then, between this form of
colonialism and the old? If
there is any difference, it is in
degree only.
It is essential that the
resources of Australia be
searched-out and won ; to do
this, capital is the indispensable
prerequisite. But if this
country is ever to stand on its
own feet as a nation of sub-
stance and solid progress, there
should be limitations upon the
distribution of profits from the
exploitation of Australian
labor and material.— Fred
Aarons (N.S.W.).
School Curriculum
Although there is much to
be said for greater emphasis on
the humanities in modern
teaching, it’s a sign of the
times that one of our greatest
public schools —G e e 1 o n g
Grammar —will have a master
in 1959 to instruct boys in
aspects of mechanical engineer-
ing.
As the great teaching insti-
tutions of the country swing
over gradually to introducing
some technical subjects into
their curriculum, it is an indi-
cation that we are slowly being
forced to keep pace with the
vast change modern technology
is bringing to the world around
us.
The innovation will help
solve a post-war problem of
“ Isolde —what can you mean about the enchantment
going out of our marriage?”
headmasters of our public
schools —how to get the best out
of boys (reckoned in the case of
Geelong school as more than
50 per cent.) whose abilities
do not lie in the scholastic
field.
It seems that this move will
fill what has hitherto been a
vacuum in the private-school
curriculum. Plain Aus-
tralian (Vic).
Workers and World Affairs
In Australia the average
unionist who takes any interest
at all in foreign affairs appears
to take his opinions either from
the political head of the
Federal Parliamentary party or
from the segment of the party
violently opposed to that leader
on foreign policy and other
grounds apart from those
misguided few who swallow
the barbed Communist line,
with its Moscow bait and
Labor sinker. Things are very
different in the United States,
where vast numbers of
unionists take an informed and
intelligent interest in world
affairs and form their own
judgments.
President George Meany, of
A.F.L.-C.1.0., told a recent
meeting in San Francisco that
American Labor’s interest in
the international situation and
its pressing problems had be-
come more and more intensive.
This was due in part to the
shrinking of the world, and
the immediate impact of hap-
penings in faraway places on
the position of the U.S. It was
also because workers —as citi-
zens —tried to help their
country to meet its many
world responsibilities. Labor’s
policies, he said, aroused
world - wide attention and
response, although the response
from overseas was not always
warm and friendly. When it
was from Moscow it was
“always hot and hostile.”
He concluded his remarks by
saying the American people
would have to be prepared to
make every necessary sacrifice
to ensure that their country
and its allies would always be
militarily strong enough to
deter and turn back aggression,
if the Soviets should decide
that this was the immediate
way to Communist world-
domination. Perhaps Dr. Evatt
and Mr. Chamberlain will get
copies of the speech. It might
conceivably do even them some
good.—Ex-A.C.T. (N.S.W.).
Science and Religion
There should be no conflict
between science and the
church if churchmen would
admit that they, like scientists,
are seekers after truth. But
those who claim to have the
truth, the whole truth, and
nothing but the truth, yet
cannot agree on what that
truth is, must continue in
conflict with science and with
each other. And in the minds
of those whose point of view
is sufficiently remote to put
the warring sects and their
pettifogging dissensions in
focus, they must stand con-
demned of inadequacy and
failure to comprehend reality.
With the spread of educa-
tion in non-Christian countries,


the old religions will break-
down ; and with them will go
the traditional sanctions and
social codes. More and more
the world will need a common
concept of human values and
social conduct; a common
spiritual goal.
Christianity has the oppor-
tunity and the duty to fill the
want, but unless some agree-
ment is reached on route as well
as destination, that “slow drift
to emptiness of soul” (B.
19/11/’5B) will travel farther
in the new world than will the
Gospel.
That new world will be pre-
dominantly Asian. Edu-
cated Asians will not be
attracted to Christianity in face
of theological hair-splitting and
obsession with matters of no
significance which distract
Western Christendom, and
which have driven so many
born Christians out of active
Church membership. And the
illiterate masses will be no
more eager in the future than
they have been in the past to
accept what seems to them a
strange system of magic in
place of one with which they
are familiar.
The church has never made
much headway in Moham-
medan countries or in India,
and in China at present appears
in danger of total eclipse.
Force never yet destroyed a
living faith ; but, as things are,
if Mao Tse-tung wished to
discredit Christianity per-
manently, he could take no
more effective measure than
to call off the persecution and
invite every sect he could
identify to establish a mission.
With 57 varieties of Chris-
tianity being preached from as
many pulpits in every town in
China (as we have it here) Mao
could sit back and let Chinese
commonsense—and sense of
humor —do the rest. Jas.
Macansh (Q.).
Signs of Assimilation
If the remarks penned by
P.-N.G. native writers and
appearing in the correspon-
dence column of the Port
Moresby “South Pacific Post”
can be accepted at face-value,
it is evident that the sophisti-
cated members of these com-
munities are making a good
job of absorbing our Western
civilisation, with all its modern
trimmings, including the asking
of curly questions and making
candid statements per medium
of the press.
One native writer joined
issue with a European corres-
pondent who had stated that
the suggestion of the establish-
ment of Mau Mau in P.-N.G.
within 10 years was “silly.”
Writes the native:
I disagree with the statement. I
am a native and I know the natives
in some parts of the Territory do
not like Europeans for many
reasons.. . .Mau Mau would not
come to P.-N.G. if the natives are
educated to become good people.
Australia has been governing
P.-N.G. for 30 years but not much
improvement taking place in edu-
cating natives to become good
leaders. No college has been
established to educate natives to a
high standard and therefore Mau
Mau will easily come in 10 years’
time.
He goes on to object against
the Government forcing certain
laws on the natives “which
they do not like” —“natives are
like elephants. They do not
forget what someone has done
to them.”
Other letters in the press
referred to current questions
puzzling the thinking indigene,
such as equal pay for equal
work, the absorption of native
apprentices in industry, the
paying of taxes.
One letter, which prompted
an editorial criticism of the
Administration, pointed out
where writers of letters to the
press had been approached by
Government officials to come
forward and discuss the con-
tentious subject. The corres-
pondent wrote:
This is the wrong thing to do as
we do not want anyone to talk to us
as if we were schoolboys, or like
policemen who talk t© people who
do a crime. Those good friends who
wrote the letters asked for a
proper answer in the paper so that
all people can read what is going
to happen to their work. Every-
body is waiting for an answer from
Mr. Cleland (the Administrator) in
the paper and we do not want
any secret talks in the offices. In
our school-books we read of people
of fighting to be free to think and
to talk and native people are using
the newspaper more each day. The
good papers are always the friends
oi the people and we know that you
will bring important things out so
that everyone can read and think
about what is happening in our
land.
The editorial resulting from
this letter pointed out that it
was unreasonable for people
to expect an “Administrator to
answer every query, either in
or out of the press, just because
someone asked it.” But it also
remarked that the Administra-
tion had left itself open to
criticism in its search for the
writer who desired information
concerning salaries. The edi-
torial continued:
It would seem that in some native
minds the Government is no longer
the paternal fellow officials have
considered it to be. By and large
there is no reason for this wariness
of the Government, but when deal-
ing with issues of this kind officials
should remember that bias and
ft-ar need no logical or easily under-
stood basis.
Training the native mind to
become capable of self-deter-
mination —according to our
views—is not the simple task
so many people thing it is.—■
Gelt (N.S.W.).
Lesson from Seato
Although Seato properly
holds itself aloof from the
politics of its member
countries, it devotes a con-
siderable amount of its work to
the countering of Communist
subversion in South-east Asia.
In that task it has been probing
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 522
Across
I—Fred1 —Fred surrounding a number sent by goods train or
cargo vessel. (9)
s—Mutilated shark listens. (5)
8 — S, not s. (8)
9 Craft to be seen in the face of Samuel. (6)
10 —How is 1-across’s Fred near the night session’s starting
time. (5, 5)
13 —Need to change a valley. (4)
15 —Donkey coming in to a poet sat back like this. (5)
16 — Conspiring together to produce
angry barracking in old Peru.
(2, 7)
17 — Am I alone in . the midst of
apparel. (9)
19 —A bit of a bounder associated
with my capacious moor when
reversing the circle trisector.
(5)
21 — The little piano tune composed
by a couple. (4)
22 — A Marx has singles with
members of the whaling industry.
GO)
25 — Meaning sheltered under canvas.
(6)
26 — Pertaining to building medicine
for improving detectives’ vitality.
(8)
28 — Figure first seen on some wood-
work joint. (5)
29 — Compresses chicken and freezes.
(9)
Down
1 — Drop on a Spanish composer.
(5)
2 A listener to Menzies’ adorn-
ments. (7)
3 Tongues Jose weight, and you
take direction in a home away
from home. (5, 5)
4 Taint disputed, so sit up. (3)
5 Mercury’s up in this race divi-
sion. (4)
6 Musically supplementary tear that
is negative. (7)
7 Unless located in some sly
synonym of darkly. (9)
10—Takes pains to corroborate a
late meal designed in black and
white squares. (6, 2)
12 —Fair isle producing part of a
bulbed flower-bearing plant.
(4, 4)
14 — The gutteral more superlatively
at the heat controller. (10)
15 — Friar who intercepts the square-
cut brickwork finish. (9)
18 —Wet Australian comedian enters
• double figures. (7)
20 —Peculiar cocaine of great seas.
(7)
23 — Punch’s apparel. (5)
24 — An area containing no offside
fieldsmen at once. (4)
27 —The French moved this bird.
(3)
Solution to Crossword No. 521.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. 0. S. PETTERSEN, Manager.
Brandies in nil States Agencies in all Country Centres
the Communist association
with trade-unions, and it has
emerged with a summary
which could be regarded
almost as a blueprint of what
is being done in this country,
including “united action” by
Communists with non-Com-
munists..
No honest union-official in
Australia would deny, for in-
stance, that the Communists
select key-unions for their in-
filtration work and that they
seek within those unions cer-
tain key-posts, including
secretary, treasurer and full-
time organisers, which give
control over union organisa-
tion. He could not deny that
new workers are recruited
both into the union and the
Communist party, or that
grievances are exploited by
ceaseless agitation “in carrying
out the union’s struggle.”
In South-east Asia, as Seato
reveals, the “executive Com-
rades” direct the union activi-
ties secretly, and open leader-
ship is avoided. Open infiltra-
tion is practised through
“united action” with non-
Communists, the aim being to
discredit the moderate union-
leaders and win over, by
“struggle,” the rank and file.
Once in control of individual
unions the Communists seek
to dominate, by infiltration and
amalgamation, national federa-
tions of unions. Can anyone
acquainted with Australian
unionism fail to recognise the
similarity of the Communists’
tactics or refuse to acknow-
ledge how successful in any
unions these tactics have been?
In other words, the lesson
for Australian unionists is
plainly on the wall, even if
Seato did not intend addressing
itself to them. The final word
from Seato is equally applic-
able: “The best means of
checking Communist activities
in the unions,” it says, “is
resolute action by the unionists
themselves.” Many Australians
will not need these warnings,
but the Labor party, in every
State and in the Federal sphere,
should ponder them. — Stromlo
(N.S.W.).
Mail Services
When a new and improved
method of accomplishing any-
thing is evolved, the older or
original method, when re-
tained alongside the new,
invariably slowly degenerates.
This rule applies to mail as
to most other things (B.
5/11 / ’5B).
But it is by their infrequency
compared with the old days
—not in actual time of transit
—that surface-mails by sea
have deteriorated. Consider-
ably fewer mail-steamers ply
between England and Aus-
tralia now than was the case
30 years ago. Modern ships
are faster, of course, but on
long runs like that from
London to Sydney, with many
ports of call en route, only
across stretches such as the
Indian Ocean is time materially
gained now in relation to mails
compared with then.
Also, a letter posted in Lon-
don on August 22, and de-
livered in Sydney on October
9, may have been mailed at
random and probably lay in
the sending office for as long
as 12 days ; almost certainly
narrowly missing an outward
mail. However, discriminately
posted on closing-day to catch
a P. and O. or Orient steamer,
it would have been delivered
in Sydney, barring accidents,
not more than five weeks later.
Even so, this would be only
about nine days faster than
obtained 50 years ago—the
improved normal cruising-
speed of modern steamers of
something like 50 knots every
24 hours does not justify send-
ing urgent mail by surface
when air-services of 60 hours
are available. Overlanded
mail across Europe and from
Fremantle to Sydney across
Australia cuts the surface-time
from London by half, of
course, but special rates (as in
the case of air-services) apply.
—Postscript (N.S.W.).
Uses of the Upp-er House
The bicameral Parlia-
mentary system (B. 24/12/”58)
was adopted in imitation of
the “Mother of Parliaments”
at Westminster. Though acci-
dent originally determined the
sitting of the Peers and the
Commons in separate cham-
bers, by the 18th century the
practice had come to be
praised on the ground that it
represented a “balance of
interests,” and was thus the
surest safeguard of the liberty
of the individual.
That was the principle on
which the British Constitution
was defended down to the late
19th century. Most British
political thinkers adhered to
Aristotle’s dictum that the best
form of government was one
that combined monarchy,
aristocracy and democracy.
The British Constitution was
held to fulfil this ideally. Pure
, m ... J . ,
democracy, with power vested
• t/ ’, , . , ,
in one House elected by uni-
L
versal suffrage, and with un-
i- •. . . r
hmited sphere of action, was
considered a threat to liberty
of person and property, and
liable to end in a dictatorship.
The 19th-century Constitu-
tion-makers elsewhere generally
& J
followed the British bicameral
system, but the place of the
hereditary House of Lords was
taken by an Upper House,
generally either nominated for
life or elected by the proper-
tied classes.
Experience has clearly
proved the value of an effec-
tive Upper Chamber, but to
perform its basic work
adequately as a House of
review it must not be domin-
ated by disciplined party
adherents. It usually is when
the electorate is the same that
elects the Lower House. An
exception is the U.S. Senate.
That Chamber, and the House
of Representatives, are elected
by the same voters, but
grouped very differently. Each
State elects an equal number
of Senators. There are
49 States, which vary widely
in size, population and
economic character. Party
ties are not strong in the
U.S.A. “States’ rights’’ feeling
is. So the Senate has a mind
of its own and is one of the
most impressive and firmly-
rooted second Chambers in
the world.
Where, lacking a similar
situation, the Upper House is
chosen by the same voters as
the lower, the result is com-
monly disappointing. Either
the second Chamber will be
an echo of the Lower, or it
may, if the Opposition can
command a majority in it, be
used to harass the Govern-
ment.
Australia’s Senate has
proved unsatisfactory because,
although the States elect an
equal number of members,
they are all more-or-less on
the same pattern ' with a
majority of the people living
in big cities. With the excep-
tions of Victoria and Tas-
mania, State boundaries are
also extensive. Party disci-
pline being strong and “States’
rights” much weaker than in
U.S.A., the Senate has always
been subject to party domina-
tion.
The Australian Senate would
be far more likely to serve the
purpose of a responsible House
of review, as would the States’
Upper Chambers also, if elec-
tion were on a functional
basis, representative of the
various vocational and cul-
tural interests of the com-
munity. A House so consti-
tuted would include a wide
range of expert opinion,
would not be wedded to any
party, and would be unlikely to
reject or mutilate legislation
for party reasons. It would,
on the other hand, prove a
check on any Government that
initiated highly controversial
legislation without the elec-
torate’s consent. Farinmail
(N.S.W.).


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS"
MILK FOR THE MILLIONS
By W. G. WHITTLESTONE
Come time ago I had the good
fortune to be asked to
help with the milking problems
at one of the world’s most
interesting dairy-centres—the
Aarey Milk Colony, near Bom-
bay (India). At this colony
there are about 15,000 water-
buffaloes housed in about
thirty “units” scattered around
the area. These animals are at
present milked by hand. My
problem was: can a buffalo be
milked efficiently by machine?.
First, some explanation of
how the colony came into
existence is needed. Bombay is
a city on an island; three-
million people live there, and
their only route to the main-
land is a causeway. This
presents the town milk-supply
authorities with a real problem.
Usually a city is surrounded by
farming lands, and milk can be
brought from all directions.
Not so in Bombay; there is
only one route —the causeway.
Some years ago, D. N.
Veterinary authori-
ties strongly advise
graziers to mark lambs
in clean, fenced-off
areas of a paddock
away from sheep
yards. Under such
conditions there is less
risk than otherwise of
soil contamination by
disease germs. An-
other safeguard is the
use of hygienic Elas-
trator Rubber Rings
rather than a knife
which can be a carrier
of disease germs.
Khurody, the Milk Commis-
sioner, had the bright idea of
establishing a milk colony and
moving into it the buffaloes
which live in the city.
Now, Bombay is a city which
has grown quickly; it used to
DR. W. G. WHITTLESTONE
(as seen by Aria).
be, not so very long ago, a
fishing-town on an island. It
got its milk from the surround-
ing dairies. As it grew the
dairies were swallowed-up in
the city until in postwar years
the population reached over
two-million people whose milk-
supply came from an abomin-
able collection of bovine slums
scattered throughout the resi-
dential area. The effluent from
these dreadful places passed
into the city sewers, and the
stench had to be smelt to be
believed. There are a few left
which I have smelt with my
own nose, so that what I have
been told can easily be
believed.
The new colony was built
about 30 miles from the city
and a high proportion of the
town’s buffaloes shifted into
it. The result was an
immediate improvement in the
quality of the milk. To start
with, less water was added and
now I believe it is rare for an
owner to add water because the
penalties are high and all milk
is carefully supervised. The
bacterial quality also improved
rapidly, though there is still
much to be done.
The buffalo supplies about
70 per cent, of the total butter-
fat consumed in India. Unfor-
tunately, however, buffalo-milk
is too rich in fat for most pur-
poses. It runs about 7-8 per
cent., which is rather more
than we city-dwellers are used
to. Mr. Khurody ingeniously
introduced the idea of “toned”
milk. This is buffalo-milk
which has been diluted with
cow skim-milk made from
imported powder. This pro-
cedure reduces the fat-content
while keeping the more impor-
tant protein - level normal.
Were it not for exchange diffi-
culties, India would be able to
consume large quantities of
skim-powder imported from
Australia and New Zealand by
“toning” larger quantities of
buffalo-milk.
The Aarey colony is almost
complete. In the centre is a
treatment-plant where the milk
is processed. Most is toned,
though some is sold “straight.”
Both types are pasteurised,
bottled and sent to the city
distribution-centres in insulated
lorries. About half-a-million
bottles leave the colony every
day.
The buffaloes are housed in
barns at the units. Most barns
hold 80 animals. They are kept
there all the time, apart from a
brief period before each milk-
ing, when they are taken to a
“dry lot” and “dunked” by
having buckets of water
poured over them. This cere-
mony is thought to put them in
a better humor for milking. It
seemed to me a very efficient
way of washing the dust from
the bodies down to the teats
so as to ensure a maximum
amount of contamination in
the milk.
Hand-milking is practised,
and it is a most inefficient
affair. My first job at the
colony was to try to teach the
milkers how to milk by handl
And what a job it was. First
I had to explain to one of the
shed-supervisors, in English,
what I wanted done. He would
then translate this into Hindi
for the owner, who finally
would pass-on the information,
or rather what was left of it,
to the milker who spoke some
odd country dialect. Most
milkers came from 1000 miles
away with their buffaloes and
so were really foreigners in
Aarey. Their language was as
different from Hindi as French
from Spanish.
Considering all this, what is
the use of even discussing
machine-milking? My view is
this. The present hand-milk-
ing methods are poor hygieni-
cally; poor from the physio-
logical point of view; poor
economically. Hand - milkers
are a very poor caste. They are
illiterate, jealous of their posi-
tion and opposed to any
change.
A machine-milker would be
able to handle so many extra
animals that he could be paid
much more ; he could be better
educated and in effect he could
come from a higher caste. (1
use the term “caste” advisedly
because, despite new laws in the
division of labor, caste is just
as strong as it is in England
and will take as long to become
extinct.) As I see it, to make
any progress in dairy-
husbandry it is necessary to


break away from traditional
methods. This means breaking
with the tradition which ties a
certain caste to the milking art;
it means creating a new group
of workers with at least a
smattering of scientific under-
standing.
The introduction of the
milking - machine would do
this. The new type of milker
would be a technician, trained
at a centre like Aarey, so that
he would understand the
nature of his work. He could
go out into the villages to help
organise co-operatives and
teach the villagers the new
ways. I believe it is possible
for a simple mobile milking-
machine to be owned by a
village co-op. and used by the
members. The machine would
be taken round the herds and
the suppliers paid for their milk
on a quantity-and-quality basis.
In the shocking conditions of
the Indian village the machine
makes is possible to obtain a
reasonably clean yield of milk,
and watering could be con-
trolled quite easily.
Even at Aarey the quality of
the milk drawn by machine
was much better than that
drawn by hand. While I was
there we set up a machine-
milking unit and found that the
buffalo is quite a good
machine-milker though a bit
tough. The machine needs a
higher vacuum and a “short-
squeeze” pulsator, but given
these the milking-rate is satis-
factory. Because of the acute
shortage of cooling water and
the high cost of refrigeration,
anything which will step-up the
quality of the milk hygienically
is desperately needed. The
machine is justified on these
grounds, though a special type
of machine is needed. It needs
to be much simpler and more
hygienically constructed than
those at present in use.
It is interesting to note that
Indian labor is so inefficient
that the labor-content of a pint
of milk in Bombay is about the
same proportion as it is here,
despite the much higher wages
paid on Australian dairyfarms.
We estimated that if we took
one group of centres at Aarey
where 3000 buffaloes are
milked, the introduction of
machines would save 100,000
rupees a year (one rupee equals
about Is. lOd. Australian). Of
course labor-saving in a
country of unemployment is
not talked about much, but the
fact is that if Bombay's
millions are to have milk at a
reasonable price, machines are
one way of helping to achieve
it.
To summarise my own
studies: buffaloes will milk by
machine efficiently and this will
result in cleaner, cheaper milk.
It also makes it possible to
break the tradition which
makes the milker the most
important man in the barn,
although he is a member of a
despised, ignorant and ineffi-
cient caste. This is the first
step in helping India to pro-
duce desperately needed milk
more cheaply and in larger
quantities.
Peanuts in N.T.
“Arafura”: Peanuts, grown
in the Northern Territory since
1917, are found mainly along
the Daly and Katherine Rivers,
150 to 200 miles inland from
Darwin, both permanently
flowing streams with deep
alluvial-flats along their banks.
Peanuts have been grown for
so long on the same ground
that some cultivations are now
“flogged out.” Only recently
have rotational crops of grain-
sorghum and fodder-grasses
become a paying proposition
as baled fodder for cattle being
shipped to Manila and Hong
Kong. The N.T. Administra-
tion’s experimental farms have
been conducting field-trials in
fodder and peanuts for some
time. Last year the bulk of
the baled fodder for cattle-
boats leaving Darwin came
from the C.5.1.R.0. farm at
Katherine.
The main variety of peanuts
grown is Virginia Bunch, for
the confectionery trade, but
there’s now a future for pea-
nuts for fodder purposes within
the Territory. If fodder were
available, cattle would be
fattened by hand-feeding in
holding-paddocks near Darwin.
The 1952 and 1953 seasons
gave the highest returns ever
for N.T. peanut-growers —2s.
to 2s. 6d. a pound, or as high
as £l5O an acre. The present
price is about Is. 6d. a pound.
With no marketing-board,
growers must depend on buyers
who visit the Territory each
season, mainly from Perth.
Most growers use aboriginal
labor in harvesting the nuts,
but Bill Alexander, a farmer
on the Upper Daly, imported
machinery from Kingaroy
(Q.) and, when prices were
good, ploughed-up 300 acres
of his river-flats for peanuts.
This season, only about 300
acres will be under nuts on
about 10 farms along the
Katherine and Daly.
N.T. Administration has gone
in for peanut-production in a
big way, and although its prime
function is supposed to be to
help farmers, it is in fact,
producing and selling its crops
in competition with private
growers. Admin, put 100 acres
under nuts at Katherine last
season and harvested a record
35cwt. to the acre —about twice
the average Queensland yield.
They are putting a similar area
under peanuts this season.
The market is limited, . and
such large plantings are bound
to bring prices down still
lower. Only crops that can
produce high returns —£50 an
acre or more —are profitable in
the Territory, where produc-
tion-costs are double those
elsewhere.
A processing-plant for pea-
nuts is an urgent need in the
Top End of the Territory. It
is necessary before peanut-
growing can become a sound
proposition. There are tens of
thousands of acres suitable for
the nut ; only the guaranteed
market is lacking.
Outlook for Coffee
“A.C.T.”: A new technique,
discovered at Israel’s agricul-
tural research-station, makes it
possible to grow the coffee-
plant at a latitude of 32deg.
north and more, and has
expanded the possible world
cultivation-area. Israel is now
investigating the practicability
of growing its own coffee hop-
ing to avoid importing two-
million - dollars’ - worth each
year.
The new methods may have
some possibilities for Aus-
tralia, and perhaps for parts
of New Guinea. At present
New Guinea coffee-beans sell
in Australian retail-shops for
up to 1 Is. 6d. a pound—
dearer than several varieties
imported from elsewhere.
Spraying Brigalow
“Bottlejaw”: Hopes of
destroying brigalow by aerial
spraying with chemical hor-
mones have not been realised.
Thousands of acres were
sprayed, and ' first results
seemed encouraging. The trees
began to die and the smaller,
more troublesome growth
wilted under the effect of the
chemical. But it soon became
apparent that the scrub was
not dying evenly. Patches,
often several acres in extent,
were evidently surviving.
There was no reasonable ex-
planation for this, and even
now one can only conjecture.
Where the plane had to rise
and fall to dodge high timber
the kill was not satisfactory.
If the scrub was flat and even,
the kill seemed much better
than if the trees were uneven
in height. Some people think
that the sudden rise of the
plane disturbed the even
spread of the hormone, con-
centrating it more in one area
than another. On top of that,
suckering probably took place
before the dead timber could
be cleared and fired.
Many landholders have
given aerial spraying away.
They prefer the ball and chain,
followed by a fire when the
timber is dry. But even here
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(8/1/’59)
Heavy rains are indicated in Queensland during
February, with widespread flooding. These should continue
in much of the State during March, although rainfall may be
patchy in the far south-west area.
Fair general rains are indicated in N.S.W. during
February, with heaviest falls in the northern divisions. Rain-
fall may be patchy and mainly below normal during autumn
and winter.
General rains well above average are indicated in Vic-
toria during February, and good follow-on rains are likely
in March. Rainfall may become patchy during the late
autumn and winter. ,
The agricultural areas and n.-w. interior of South
Australia should receive moderate to heavy rains during
February, but rainfall may be poor elsewhere. The seasonal
rains should start in the agricultural areas during May.
The North Kimberleys of Western Australia should
receive reasonably good rains in February, although rainfall
may be poor in the balance of the State. A further cyclonic
disturbance may occur near Cossack at the end of January.
The main cycle of 1888, on which the present Kim-
berley cyclone was indicated, suggests a very dry year in
most of the continent, with the exception of south-west
Western Australia.
LENNOX WALKER.


Happy Harmony • •.
Everybody is happier when
Asbestos-Cement Flat Sheets are
specified. Carefully made by
Wunderlich Limited, recognised
leaders in building materials.
Wunderlich Durabestos Flat Sheets
offer many features . . . fine
workmanship-—low cost mainten-
ance and attractive appearance,
the evidence of superior quality
sheeting.
ASBESTOS-CEMENT SHEETING BY
/
Baptist Street, REDFERN • MX 2411
S2AC.6
there are several opinions on
how to go about it. Some
claim that pulling the timber
green disturbs the ground too
much. The green timber takes
a big clod of dirt with its roots,
and this leaves a gaping hole
in the ground, with a mound
of dirt several yards away,
When the scrub is burnt the
ground has to be roughly
levelled before it can be cul-
tivated. However much care
is taken, those green trees are
generally dragged several feet
or more from their original
site before the rope releases its
hold. There doesn’t seem to
be any practical way of stop-
ping that hole and mound of
dirt from being a lew yards
a P ait>
The alternative is to frill-
ring the scrub first and let it
die. Shortly after the leaves
start to turn, natural grass
takes-over and, in a favorable
season, soon covers the ground
among the trees with green
herbage. Thus it is possible
to get two years’ grazing from
the rung land before the dry
timber is pulled. When pulled
and ’dozed into lines, rung
scrub burns much cleaner than
the dry unrung scrub. If the
ground is going to be culti-
vated there will be fewer
sticks to pick up, and there
will be practically no levelling
to do, as the dry timber pulls
out without taking a large clod
of dirt with it.
Despite chemical hormones,
the brigalow still looks like a
job for the axe and the chain,
Onions
“ M yall”: Commercial
onion-growing is not difficult
anc j can profitable. Onions
thrive in most types of well-
drained soil, but do best in
heavy loam, which isn’t too
rich. Rich soil sends the plants
to tops at the expense of bulbs,
while onions grown in light
sandy loams don’t keep as well
as those from heavier soil,
Depending on the climate,
sowing can be spread over the
autumn and early winter, from
February to August. In warm
climates February to May are
the best months, with the main
sowing in April, but in colder
parts August sowings will give
good results.
If fertiliser is needed, the
mixture recommended is six
parts of bonedust, four of
super, and one of muriate-of-
potash, applied at the rate of
licwt. to 2cwt. an acre. Harrow
this in lightly, because onions
have shallow roots and, if you
work it in deeply, the crop
will not get the full benefit.
Plough the field thoroughly,
bringing it to a fine tilth before
sowing, then drill the seed in
rows 12in. to 13in. apart and
cover it with about 4-in. of
soil. Firm the seedbed with a
light roller drawn behind the
combine, to make germination
even and quicker. When the
young plants are big enough,
thin them out about 4in.,
keeping the field free from
weeds.
When mature the tops flag
and turn yellow and the stems
bend over. The bulbs should
now be pulled on the first con-
venient fine day. If needed for
storing,, the bulbs should be
left on the ground, with the
roots towards the sun, and
turned occasionally till they are
perfectly dry. Onions bagged
the slightest bit “fresh” will
soon heat and become value-
less. Store them in a cool, dry,
airy shed until you need them
for market.
Potato-moth
“North”: The potato-moth
(Gnorimoschema operculella ),
has become the worst pest of
potato-crops in all States, while
in Queensland it is also the
enemy of tomato- and tobacco-
crops. Greyish-brown, with a
wing-span of 4-fin., the insect
lays about 200 eggs in a fort-
night on the leaves, stalks and
tubers of the plant, and in
sacks of potatoes left standing
out overnight.
During the warmer months
of the year the eggs hatch in
three to five- days and the
larvre begin tunnelling between
the upper and lower surfaces
of the leaves. Those hatching
on the tubers tunnel under the
skin, eating their way into the
centre of the potato and spoil-
ing it for human consumption.
After two weeks the larvae are
full grown, white and 4-in. long.
They pupate on the outside of
the tubers, among dead leaves
or in the folds of sacking, and
after about a week emerge as
moths ready to continue the
life-cycle. There are a number
of these cycles during the year.
To control this pest in the
field, plant the seed as deeply
as possible, hill-up the growing
plants and keep the soil loose.
It is when the ground becomes
dry and cracks that the moth
makes its way through the soil
and lays its eggs on the tubers.
When digging, bag the potatoes
as soon as possible, sew-up the
bags and cart them out of the
field. If they’re left to stand
overnight, thousands of eggs
will be laid on the potatoes in
the bags and heavy losses will
result. Never cover potatoes
with the plants after digging,
or the larvae will soon travel
from these to the tubers. Sacks
should be new or, if second-
hand, dipped into boiling
water to destroy any larvae,
pupae or eggs. Spraying the
growing crop with 0.1 per cent,
strength D.D.T. at the rate of
lOOgal. an acre as soon as
infestation is noticed on the
leaves will give excellent
results. A second spraying may
be necessary in 10 days if plants
are severely infested.
Tubers badly infested in
storage should be fumigated
with carbon-bisulphide at the
rate of 41b. to each lOOcu. ft.
of the container. This will
destroy the pests in all stages
if kept up for not less than
36 hours. Some damage may
occur to immature tubers, but
it is better to lose a few than
allow the moth to destroy the
lot. Carbon-bisulphide is
very inflammable even an
electric spark will cause an
explosion—so be careful.
Derris-dust containing at
least 0.5 per cent, rotenun —or
2 per cent. D.D.T. powder—
and dusted over stored potatoes
will keep the pest in check.
About 81b. of either dust will
treat one ton of tubers if
applied within 24 hours of
harvesting. The treatment may
be done in the field while the
potatoes are being bagged. Put
about loz. of the dust in the
bottom of a kerosene-tin and
fill with tubers ; when this is
tipped into the bag the dust
forms a cloud which leaves
quite a good film on the spuds.
Up to 4oz. of the dust should
then be sprinkled over the top
of the bag before it is sewn-up.
Paspalum Dilatatum
“Fencer”: Paspalum dila-
tatum, one of the most popular
summer - growing pasture -
grasses found in the coastal
districts of N.S.W. and Queens-
land, is also increasing in favor
inland where graziers are sow-
ing it along creeks, in water-


A
COMPLETE
SHOE
SERVICE
Byrne Bros, are shoe specialists, and have
been for over 50 years. The skill and
experience of those 50 years enables them
to give you complete satisfaction in the
following services:—•
• Repairing all shoes and boots.
• Renovating your old shoes (golf shoes,
which are old and comfortable, can be
renovated to new condition and still
retain their comfort) .
© Re-styling and covering all types of
ladies’ shoes. (The recovering of shoes
with your own material to match a
frock is but part of our service.)
Q All kinds of boots and shoes made to
your individual order and requirements.
If you would like further details and a quo-
tation, ring, write or call to —
YRNE BROS.,
PTY. LTD.
15 Wilmot Street, Sydney.
(Opposite the Trocadero) ,
MA 5865
MA 7976
“Y'r mate ’ asn't quite got the knack of it”
courses and similar places. It
is deep-rooting and can
weather severe dry spells;
though the foliage may
“brown-off,” it comes away
quickly as soon as rain falls.
Sow during the warm months
at the rate of 81b. to 101 b.
broadcast to an acre. If
possible sow in the ashes after
a “burn.” Otherwise work the
ground well and roll lightly
afterwards. Mix a couple of
pounds of white-clover or
lucerne with the seed to make
a better-balanced pasture.
Stock should be kept off the
grass until it’s well-established,
and then it should be grazed
heavily.
The grass is excellent both
for milk-production and fatten-
ing ; it also makes good hay
and ensilage if cut before
seed-heads appear. Although
heavy frosts will cut the grass,
they will not kill it; it soon
recovers in warm weather and
can also withstand a lot of
flooding.
After the grass has been
eaten-down by heavy stocking,
take out the stock and let it
recuperate. Run a harrow
upside-down over the paddock
to spread the manure over the
surface. In early spring, a top-
dressing of lcwt. of super, and
281 b. of sulphate-of-ammonia
should be given.
A disease called ergot may
attack the seed-heads but other-
wise not injuring the plant.
Animals that eat the heads
may become ill and cases
of abortion often occur.
The best control is intensive
grazing to prevent the
forming of seed-heads. If the
pasture “gets away” from the
stock, cut the crop with a
mower and turn it into nay.
The grass is safe provided it is
kept from seeding so that
ergot can form on the heads.
Be sure to buy selected seed,
as threshed and sweated lines
will only cause disappointment.
Avocado-pears
“North”: The avocado- or
alligator-pear (Persen grates-
sima) has become essential to
the Queensland fruitgrowing-
industry.
The tree grows to between
20ft. and 25ft., according to
variety. Evergreen and orna-
mental, it is a native of the
West Indies, and does well in
tropical and semi-tropical
regions. It will stand light
frosts without damage. Avo-
cados will grow in any climate
suitable for citrus, provided
the soil is well drained. They
need more water than citrus
during dry spells, and don’t
take kindly to too much culti-
vation.
When planting the trees,
space them 20ft. apart each
way and protect them from
sun and wind for about
a year, otherwise the
bark may harden and they may
die. Use hessian for this, and
when the tree has grown suffi-
cient leaves to shade itself,
cut the protection away. Once
established, give the trees a
heavy mulch of grass or other
organic matter. This keeps the
soil cool and moist, and acts
as a fertiliser when turned
under. Grafted trees will bear
fruit two to four years after
planting. Then they crop
heavily. Certain varieties do
better in some districts than
others, so it’s as well to grow
a few of each and note which
produces the best crop, before
planting any large number.
The fruit varies in size, from
12oz. to 360 z. according to
variety. Some fruits are green
and others purple, but all con-
tain a mass of firm pulp, which
has a buttery taste, is rich in
calcium and iron, and second
only to the olive in oil-content,
The fruit is good for invalids,
diabetics and children, since
it contains minerals, proteins
and vitamins, which are
easily digested and have the
energy-value of lean meat. It
can be eaten as a salad or
breakfast food, or mashed with
a little lemon-juice to make
a sandwich-filling.
CrOSSCuf
“Spooks”: P. L. Ashby, of
Wattle Grove (W.A.), has
brought a 190gn. boar by sea
from Sydney and hopes to
mate it with the progeny of a
410gn. Landrace sow recently
purchased at the Melbourne
Show. A second boar, “Seed-
stow Caesar V” (whose mother
was a winner at the Dublin
show), flown from Tasmania
to Melbourne and sent by train
from there, has just reached
the Joronga Stud at Kelmscott
(W.A.). Both arrivals should
be an asset to the Westralian
bacon-industry.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSON &
O SULLIVa.\t
PIYLTD
y 'yjtft £
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty; Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And. at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
lithographic: printers
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREQTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
"JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Miniature scores of all the Beet-
hoven symphonies, as well as the
Brahms violin concerto, the fifth
of Bach’s six Brandenburg Con-
certos and Tschaikowsky’s Fifth
Symphony. —67B4.
Copy of Outback Occasions, by
the late Charles Shaw. —6783.
Does Anybody Know?
Whereabouts of G. F. Sanders,
employed on Dalgonally station,
Julia Creek (Q.), between 1929-
1932? Friend inquiring.
Information Sought
When and by whom was the first
mental asylum in N.S.W. estab-
lished ?
In May, 1811, Governor Mac-
quarie established the first asylum
at Castle Hill, and a little later
the old Government barn was
repaired and allotted for that pur-
pose at that station. Accomoda-
tion was provided for 30 patients,
with a courtyard for exercise
surrounded by a strong stockade.
A weatherboard cottage was
erected for the superintendent and
his family. The first resident
superintendent was George Suttor,
who received special instructions
from Governor Macquarie in
September, 1814. This asylum was
maintained until 1828, when the
lands occupied were required for
the clergy and school estates. The
building used by the Bench of
magistrates at Liverpool was there-
upon converted into an asylum, and
the patients, numbering 32 men
and 12 women, were transferred
from Castle Hill.
* * * *
How are imitation pearls made,
and how can the imitations be
detected ?
Glass imitations may be detected
by inferior iridescence, by greater
“Watch it — it's an intersection
hardness and by the apparent
doubling of a spot of ink placed
on the surface —caused by the
reflection from the inner surface of
the glass shell. They consist of
hollow glass spheres, made by
blowing, lined with parchment and
an underlining of a preparation of
fish-scales, known as “Essence
d’Orient.” When the lining is dry
the globe is filled with hot wax
to impart solidity. In cheap imita-
tions the glass balls are not lined,
but heated in hydrochloric-acid to
give an iridescence to the surface.
Sometimes they are merely coated
with wax, which may be scraped
off with a knife.
• * • *
Details of the Queensland Cen-
tenary Novel Competition ?
The competition, open to full-
length, original, unpublished MSS.,
is part of the official centenary pro-
gramme ; the £lOOO prize for the
best novel will be given by the
“Courier-Mail” and the “Sunday
Mail.” Author of the winning novel
will be free to make his or her own
arrangements to have it published
m book-form after the “Courier-
Mail” and the “Sunday-Mail” have
exercised their rights to serialise
it. Entries for the competition close
on December 1, 1959; to be eligible
for entry in the competition, authors
must comply fully with all the
conditions, which are as follows:
(1) The “Courier-Mail” prize of
£lOOO is offered to the author or
authors of the best novel manu-
script received as an entry in the
competition, subject to the condi-
tions below.
(2) The “Courier-Mail” Centenary
Novel Competition is open to
authors of any nationality resident
in any part of the world. Each
entry, however, must be written
in English.
(3) Each entry must have some
Queensland background or interest,
but need not be set in Queens-
land.
(4) Entrants may submit more
than one manuscript.
(5) Each entry must be accom-
panied by a comprehensive synopsis
of the plot.
(6) The prescribed entry-form,
duly signed, must accompany each
manuscript. Each manuscript must
be the original and previously
unpublished work of the entrant.
(7) Australian serial- and first-
publication rights of the winning
novel will become the property of
the “Courier-Mail” and the
“Sunday Mail.” All other rights
will be available to the author.
If publication- or serial-rights in
the prize-winning novel are sold by
the “Courier-Mail” and the “Sun-
day Mail” to other Australian news-
papers or journals, the author will
be entitled to participate in the pro-
ceeds of such a sale on a basis to
be agreed upon. Should the
“Courier-Mail” and the “Sunday
Mail” find it impracticable to publish
the prize-winning manuscript within
12 months, first-publication rights,
but not serial-rights, will lapse. The
“Courier-Mail” and the “Sunday
Mail” will be entitled to acquire,
if they so desire, first Australian
publication-rights and also serial-
rights of all manuscripts, other
than the prize-winning manuscript,
submitted. Payment for these
would be made at ruling rates.
All manuscripts submitted must be
typed and double-spaced, and only
one side of the paper must be used.
All manuscripts should be for-
warded by registered post. To assist
in the return of manuscripts, please
enclose stamped, self-addressed
envelopes, and advise the editor of
any change of address, Judging of
the competition will be completely
impartial. To ensure this, names of
entrants will not be divulged to the
judges. Competitors must use a
pen-name on the manuscript, and
must state on the entry-form
accompanying the manuscript (a)
title of the novel; (b) their pen-
name ; and (c) their real name and
address. In no case must the real
name and address of the author
appear anywhere on the manuscript
itself. All correspondence regard-
ing the competition should be
addressed to The Editor, “Courier-
Mail,” Queen Street, Brisbane.
Entries must be accompanied by a
specific form, obtainable at the
above address.
* • * *
(1) How many members are there
in, the House of Commons ? (2) In
the House of Lords? (3) Are mem-
bers of (he House of Lords paid?
From Whitaker’s Almanack: (1)
In 1885 membership was increased
from 658 to 670, and in 1918 to
707. In 1920-22 Irish representa-
tion was reduced from 105 to 13
and total membership to 615. In
1945 the number was raised to 640,
in 1948 it was reduced to 625, and
in 1949 increased to 630. (2) 870
Lords Spiritual and Temporal. (3)
Members of the House of Lords
are unpaid, but (since 1946) are
entitled, if they attend regularly,
to travelling expenses from home-
address to the Palace of Westmin-
ster.
* * * *
How is olive-oil made ?
The olives are placed in a siev-
ing machine to remove sand and
dirt, and next passed into machinery
which chops them into a mass.
The mass is packed in bags and
subjected to very heavy hydraulic
pressure for about 7min. The oil
expressed during this process is the
finest quality and is described as
“cold-pressed,” “salad-oil” or
“virgin olive-oil.” Oil still remains
in the mass, and the material is
next raised in temperature and
pressed again to yield the “second
expression,” and once more
heated and pressed for the “third
expression.” These processes pro-
duce oils ready for use; if the oils
contain impurities they are purified
by processes using charcoal or
chemicals. Simple screw-presses
may be used for crushing home-
grown olives on the farm; any
method by which the seeds are
crushed and compelled to yield
their oil can be used for small
clean quantities, but it is impos-
sible to extract the whole of the
oil by such home apparatus.
* * * *
Simple explanation of the
principle of jet-propulsion in
aeroplanes ?
The basic principle underlying
jet-propulsion is the creation of
thrust (i.e., forward drive) by the
ejection of gases from a nozzle
which, meeting with air-resistance,
forces rapidly forward the movable
construction ejecting the gases.
A simple example is an inflated
balloon, held by the neck between
forefinger and thumb, and suddenly
released: the compressed air rush-
ing through the narrow neck forces
the balloon forward at great speed.
In the power-unit of jet-propelled
aircraft, air enters through an intake
and passes into a compressor, which
in its action corresponds to the
blowing-up of a balloon —it builds
up air-pressure. This compressor
consists of a revolving vaned-disk,
pushing air round and packing it
into a chamber through which it
moves at speed. A continuous


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies .. ~ .. 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
charge of fuel (any liquid petroleum
mixture) now joins the compressed
air through a nozzle from a fuel-
pump, forming a highly combustible
mixture, similar to that used in a
motor-car engine.
This mixture burns continuously,
as fast as it arrives in the combus-
tion-chamber. The electric plug
which ignites the mixture for start-
ing can afterwards be switched-oif,
as the mixture will continue to burn
as long as fuel is pumped into the
combustion-chamber. Although the
burning mixture does not use all
the air, the unused air becomes so
hot that it expands, and its speed is
greatly increased. The only exit
is through a gas turbine, which is
thus rotated. As the turbine is
mounted on the same shaft as the
compressor it provides the turning-
power for the initial compression.
After leaving the turbine, the
mixture of burnt gas and air is
ejected from the slightly narrow final
opening (or nozzle) at high speed,
expanding, and causing the whole
unit, and therefore the aircraft to
which it is attached, to react for-
ward. Speed-control is obtained by
varying the amount of fuel
injected.
* * .* *
Brief biography of Christopher
Marlowe ?
Born at Canterbury, 1563,
Marlowe was educated at King's
School in that town and matricu-
lated as a pensioner of Benet
College, Cambridge, where he took
his degree of Bachelor and Master
of Arts. He belonged to the group
of University Wits who derived a
precarious living from literature.
While still at the uni. he began to
write for the London stage, and
wrote the first important tragedy of
the English language. His prin-
cipal works are the plays “Tambur-
laine the Great,” “Doctor Faustus,”
“The Jew of Malta,” “Edward the
Second,” “The Massacre at Paris,”
a narrative poem, “Hero and
Leander,” and a few lyrics. He was
killed in a tavern brawl at Dept-
ford, 1593.
* * * *
History of the “Star of Africa”
diamond ?
Found in the Premier mine, near
Pretoria, Transvaal, 1905, it was first
called , the “Cullinan,” after Sir
T. M. Cullinan, chairman of the
mine, but on. the wish of George
V it was renamed “Star of Africa.”
The rough stone, which weighed
3025| carats (about l|lb.) was
brought by the Transvaal Govern-
ment for £150,000 and presented to
Edward VII on his birthday, 1907.
The cutting was entrusted to
A.sscher, of Amsterdam, who cut
it into two main parts, one being
a pendeloque weighing 51.6! carats,
the other a square brilliant weigh-
ing 309 3/16 carats. The first is in
the sceptre and the second in the
crown of the regalia. Besides these
there are a pendeloque (92 carats),
a square-shaped brilliant (62), a
heart-shaped stone (18|), two mar-
quises (8 9/16 and 11!), an oblong
stone (6f), a pendeloque (4 9/32)
and 96 small brilliants together
Weighing 7f carats.
* * * *
Some details concerning thorn-
black rays ?
Mainly inhabitants of temperate
waters —though a few occur in the
deeper waters of tropical seas —
they are usually armed with spines
on the back, and males often have
rows of sharp, spiny hooks near
the margins of the pectoral fins.
The teeth of the male have sharp
cusps; those of the female are
flattened and obtuse. The young
are produced from eggs, deposited
in horny cases, oblong in shape,
and ranging from a little over an
lin. to Bin. long. These fish,
classed generally as skates, are
largely used as food in the Northern
Hemisphere, the pectoral fins, or
“wings,” having a palatable flavor.
A small species, Raja australis, is
caught by trawlers in deeper water
off Australia’s south-eastern coasts,
but it is less prized as food than
the stingrays, commonly sold in the
markets as “skate.” Another and
larger species, R. nasuta, attaining a
width across the disk of nearly 4ft.,
is common in Bass Strait. There
are many other species.
Brief Answers
S.H.C.: The name given to the
place where wine is manufactured is
“winery”... .H.P.McI.: Write to
Angus and Robertson, Ltd., 89
Castlereagh Street, Sydney....
T. Unable to trace any informa-
tion on that convict-ship. Try the
Australian Historical Society, Young
Street, Sydney, or the Mitchell
Library, Sydney... .G.R.J.: Write
to Angus and Robertson, 89-95
Castlereagh Street, Sydney
X.Y : 1923 was the year of the
Melbourne police - strike....
H.H.W.: (1) and (2) Such matters
are usually shrouded in mystery, and
not much information is available
about the ones you’re interested in.
(3) Sorry, but unable to trace when
that article was printed. .. .G.L.H.:
(1) Bitalli won the Melbourne Cup
in 1923. (2) No—unless the result of
the challenge-round had already
been decided. With the agreement
of both captains, Fraser could have
been substituted for Anderson in
the last 1958 singles, the Cup already
having been won by the U.S.A. (3)
Another member of the squad can
play in those conditions....
U. Difficult to discover just
where the names of those particular
mayors and Lord Mayors would
have been inscribed for posterity,
though it can be assumed that they
are recorded... .J.C.S.: Arsenical
sprays would probably not be
effective; possibly the best material
would be Dalapon, at about 301 b.
per acre. T.C.A. should also be
effective at about 1001 b. per acre.
Diesel distillate would severely
damage the plant and possibly kill
ii at about 400 to 500 gallons per
acre D.R.S.: (a) Australian War
Memorial, Canberra, A.C.T.; price
30s. (b) Cassell *& Co., Ltd., 26
Clarence Street, Sydney; price
235. 9d.
THE HOLLIDAYS
BT MIDDY
“ — Also, I promised to give a brace to each of the Ladies' Guild — and, of course, We cant forget the
Jackson family!”
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
'Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
D.1.F.: Hit to leg... .H.N.M.:
Your architectural observations:
All Melbourne knows the 1.C.1.
That is like a matchbox-holder
Sitting on the ashtray rim
Of the city’s eastern shoulder.
. ...C.8.: A bitter brew for
Xmas... .L.F.: As painfully
patriotic as all other anthems....
E. : Looked twice at “The
Spider.” It’s intriguing but doesn't
quite work 0ut....E.R.: Sonnet
lost in formality... .D.J.R,.: That’s
not what the motto means, but at
least you state the point clearly
F. The plain speech of the
sonnet is better than the turgidity
of “Gold Fever”... .J.E.: Very
slight... .V.G.W.: The weakness is
a hackneyed poetic language—
“nooks,” for example—which dis-
torts your observation... .S.D.S.:
No moon-rocket ever crashed like
that one... .J.A.C.: It has feeling
without form... .M.G.H.: All
right. Bring him in:
THE LOCAL WHIPMAKER
Beneath the shady tree he stands
Trimming and plaiting the greenhide
strands;
With the pipe in his mouth
And his back to the South
He plaits a stockwhip
As neat as a chip
And makes a headrope
To hold any colt ;
A six-strand belt
From a kangaroo pelt.
Now the fame of his whip
Has spread far and wide
(As many an old cow can tell
When it lands on her hide—•
She’ll let out a bellow
When cracked by a white
Or black fellow).
J.S.: Nothing new in “Icarus.”


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
The oppressive heat of the week was
relieved for the 400 people who were
the guests of Mr. and Mrs. R. P. Peix
at the reception they gave on the Show-
boat in honor of the maiden voyage of
the new Total Oil tanker Astrolabe.
Showboat itself was dressed up to the
nines with shrubs and flowers, festoons
of pink muslin, trails of greenery and
swans of ice (on the buffet). A highlight
of the party was the arrival of cricketers
Jim Laker, Ted Dexter and Trevor Bailey
by one of the launches which provided a
shuttle service for those who came late
or went early.
Mrs. Peix’s dress of turquoise shantung
was a model bought in Paris only a
couple of weeks ago, and she wore with
it a lovely necklace of diamonds set in
silver. Among the pretty summer dresses
worn was Mrs. Neville Manning’s short
sheath of rose-patterned cotton and Mrs.
Dick Allen’s slim dress of cotton in a
black-and-white chicken-foot design. The
Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Aid.
and Mrs. Jensen) were present, French
Ambassador M. Sivan and Mme.
Sivan, Mr. and Mrs. Roy McKerihan,
Mr. and Mrs. James Kearney, Mr. and
Mrs. William Anderson and Mr. and Mrs.
Reginald Mackay.
Also saw at this party Mr. and Mrs.
“Huck” Finlay, who were sad on the
one hand because of the death of their
beloved dog Jinx (“He was a singing
dog,” said Mrs. Finlay, “and we had him
for twelve years”), but excited on the
other hand because they set off for
London in July and will see their little
grandson Tim, now 10 months old, for
the first time. Their daughter, Mrs. H.
Woodhouse, now lives in Kensington.
☆ ☆ ☆
Actor Edwin Styles recalled the gay
and lavish days of the stage in a witty
speech which he made to members of the
Stage and Society Club at a luncheon
given in their Forbes Street clubhouse on
Wednesday. He produced a gold watch
which he had had for 30 years and which
had been one of the presents showered
on to the stage nightly by enthusiastic
audiences of those days. Mr. Styles
described the sort of gifts that actors
received at an annual party which a mil-
lionaire used to give for the theatrical
company. One of these gifts was a huge
basket of flowers with a high arched
handle decorated all round with little
bottles of liqueurs. In the centre of the
basket was a jeraboam of champagne,
and around it six imperial-pint bottles
of champagne. In the bottom of the
basket was a box containing a dozen
golf-balls and a £ 10-note. Those were
the days!
☆ ☆ ☆
An engagement of interest to Sydney
people is that of Mrs. Enid Miller to
Mr. Colin Dence, who met on board
Orcades returning from Australia to
England late last year. Mrs. Miller, who
has a large circle of friends in Sydney,
is flying to Australia during the first
week in February, and when she has
settled her business-affairs here will go
back to London for the wedding, prob-
ably in March. Efer fiance is a widower
who visited Malaya and Australia last
November on business for the firm of
Brand and Co. (Vauxhall, London), of
which he is the manager.
Youthful Laura Jane Casson is one of
the stars of the new intimate revue open-
ing at the Royal on January 30. The
granddaughter of Dame Sybil Thorndike
and Sir Lewis Casson and daughter of
actor-producer John C'assoii, Laura Jane
has made a promising start on a career
which may equal those of other eminent
members of her family . “lor Amuse-
ment Only” is o London revue, described
as “gloriously funny," and with Miss
Casson in the cast are Toni Latnond,
Tikky Taylor, Margo Lee, Red Moore
and a group of other bright young things.
The vogue for little girls dressing-up
“just like mummy” has gone a step
further in the U.S., for now “Mother-
and-daughter” wigs are becoming the
vogue. Leading the way in this fashion
is film-star Jayne Mansfield and her
young daughter.
V ¥ V
The Ensemble Theatre, launched at
North Sydney only last year, seems to
have had a tremendous success with its
thriller “The Man,”, which is now playing
its fifth month and has reached its 50th
performance. Their new production,
“Orpheus Descending” by Tennessee
Williams, starts on Thursday, January 29,
and will play on Fridays, Saturdays, and
Sundays, while “The Man” will be pre-
sented on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and
Thursdays. An extended season of this
kind is certainly an achievement for a
new venture.
V V V
Back in Australia for a six-weeks’
visit are Sir Eric Harrison, Australian
High Commissioner in the U.K., and
Lady Harrison. At present they are stay-
ing with Lady Harrison’s daughter at
Roseville, and will go on to Hobart and
Adelaide to visit Sir Eric’s three daughters
and seven grandchildren.
# V ¥
Due this week is the Duke of Argyll,
hereditary head of the Campbell Clan,
and the Duchess, who is his third wife.
The Duke is a very colorful character
who has spent a fortune trying to salvage
the treasure on the Spanish galleon
Florencia, which went down in Tober-
mory Bay after the Armada was routed.
So far the Duke (the 11th of his line)
has not been successful, but he has-made
money to finance his ventures (and meet
death - duties) by such expediencies as
personally advertising Argyll sox, open-
ing his historic Inverary Castle to public
tours at 2s. 6d. a head, and being lucky
enough to inherit £BO,OOO from an elderly
member of his Clan whom he never met.
During his three weeks in Australia the
Duke will meet members of the Clan and
will attend the 200th anniversary-cele-
brations of the birth of Robbie Burns.
& V- V
This touching little letter has been
received from the head teacher of the
Gemo Hansenide school (New Guinea),
where sufferers from Hansen's disease
(leprosy) are treated. With it comes a
donation of £l, which represents a wealth
of goodness in the human spirit:
Let me tell you how we raised this little
money. Gemo is rather a stoney little island
and any means of gardening is almost impos-
sible owing to the soil. But as we can't expect
money from other people, we made a small
garden beside our ward. In this garden we
planted watermelons which grow up and have
fruit after many doubts. Last week two
gathered these and sold them for money. We
know that we have always been helped by the
Red Cross Society, and we never tried to repay
these debts. Of course this is only a very small
amount indeed in comparison with others who
contribute hundreds of pounds. However, we
are not to equalize these contributions. Our
aim in sending this small amount of money is to
express our love for others to whom we are
indebted, and also to show our gratitude
towards the Red Cross Society. We hope that
you will accept it with love and kindness.
# # V
The first bride ever to be married from
Bishopscourt, home of the Anglican
Bishop of Newcastle, will be Miss Anne
Housden, only daughter of the Bishop of
Newcastle, the Right Rev. J. A. G. Hous-
den, and Mrs. Housden. She is to marry
the Rev. John Bayton, of Longreach
(Q.), in Christ Church Cathedral, New-
castle, on January 31.


MELBOURNE
If the new yarns in brilliant colors
and smart designs are any indication,
knitting-needles will soon be clicking
busily and the results will be most
rewarding. Patons and Baldwin s new
range includes blends of 80 per cent, wool
and 20 per cent, nylon, and this, it is
claimed, will make them long-wearing and
more shrink-resistant than many knitting-
wools previously on the market. A
delightful example of this new blend is a
boucle yarn finished with white flecks.
For the smart skier there is a polo-necked
jumper with cable-stitched front, small
hat and long cuffed gloves knitted in a
new confetti-flecked off-white yarn. Many
of the expertly-knitted garments seen in
this preview were in a new orlon yarn.
Light in weight, it is soft to wear, easy to
wash and quick to dry. New colors
include orange-flame, blue-turquoise,
mauve-mist, sparkling-coral, foam-green
and bright-olive. All these yarns are
mothproof.
☆ ☆ ☆
Interest has been aroused in hunting
and polo circles with the engagement of
Elizabeth Rosina, only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. W. H. Stocks, of Wonga Park,
and Frederick John, only son of Mrs.
F. B. Lithgow, of Flowerfield, Cold-
stream, and the late Mr. Lithgow. The
engagement was announced at a party
given for friends at Mrs. Lithgow’s home,
following the opening match of the
Yarra Glen and Lilydale Polo Club.
John is the president of the club
and is also the Master of the Yarra Glen
and Lilydale Hunt Club. He is an old
Geelong Grammarian. Elizabeth, who
was educated at Toorak College, Mt.
Eliza, is wearing a ring of three large
diamonds. Plans are in hand for a
wedding later in the year.
# V V
Fauns’ Green, the Mt. Eliza seaside
home of Cr. and Mrs. W. J. Kilpatrick,
was the setting for a smorgasbord
luncheon which included home-cooked
turkey, sucking-pig, ham and cool tempt-
ing salads. These appetising dishes were
served to 300 guests in the garden over-
looking Davey’s Bay and eaten under
gay umbrellas at little tables. Mrs. Kil-
patrick and a committee of 14 hope to
raise £lOOO for the Campaign Hostess,
organised to assist the Yooralla
Crippled Children’s Appeal. The com-
mittee assisting Mrs. Kilpatrick included
her daughter Mrs. Neil Randall, and
Mesdames Noel Arbrecht, W. J. King,
George Laurens, N. Parish, Gordon
Walker, A. Temple, Geoffrey Tolson, W.
Clarke, Colin Russell, B. Ahern, W.
Mcßride and D. Bean.
☆ ☆ ☆
Home again after a strenuous 12 weeks
overseas, Mrs. Garnet Carroll is bubbling
with enthusiasm for the exciting
theatrical productions she and her hus-
band saw while away. Mrs. Carroll
says “The Music Man,” which they saw
in the U.S., is an even better musical than
“Oklahoma?” But the most exciting and
fascinating part of the trip was choosing
the wardrobe for the forthcoming pro-
duction of “Auntie Marne.” Mrs.
Carroll has impeccable taste in dressing,
so the clothes she selected in London for
the principals will be something worth
seeing. She is delighted at the prospect
of Sir Ralph and Lady Richardson coming
to Australia to appear in three
productions, including “Flowering
Cherry” and “Waltz of the Toreador.”
In New York they saw Cyril Ritchard in
“The Pleasure of His Company”—the
Australian actor is enormously popular
there. The Garnet Carrolls’ next venture
overseas in search of new shows is timed
for July.
When Ava Gardner had her first film-
test she w not permitted to speak, and,
because she was totally lacking in
dramatic experience, was not called upon
to act. But M.G.M. film-men knew she
had what it takes, and Ava, with a con-
tract in her handbag, began drama-train-
ing with a special view toward bleaching-
our her Southern accent. Born in Smith-
field, North Carolina, where she began
her education, she continued it in New-
port, Virginia, finally returning to her own
State for college, where she did a business
course —an early ambition which Holly-
wood changed. The famous and lovely
star is here for the filming of "On The
Beach," in which she plays the role of an
Australian girl who falls in love with an
A merican naval-officer when time is
running out for them and for what is left
of the world after a disastrous nuclear-
war.
Businessman Barty Mei has returned
from a trip overseas, the highlight of
which was his attendance at St. Peter’s
for the Coronation of Pope John. From
Rome he went to the Brussels Fair, which
he says was fabulous. Barty went to two
fashion-shows of note, one in Paris at the
Dior salon, the other in Florence at the
Palazzo Pitti, where the foremost Italian
designers, among them Venetziani,
showed their magnificent collections.
☆ ☆ ☆
When she was married at St. Andrew’s
Presbyterian Church, Hamilton, Jennifer
Ann, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Harold Young, of Murroa Lodge, Hamil-
ton, wore a gown of white pure-silk-
taffeta which had a bell-skirt falling
into a long train. Her fUll-length tulle
veil was held by a coronet of orange-
blossom, and her bouquet was of trailing
ivy and gardenias. The ’groom’s sister
Susan, her cousin Beth Philip, Sandra
MacDonald and Janet Thornton were the
bridesmaids ; their full-length frocks
were of pale-blue pure-silk-taffeta, their
bouquets of white roses. The bridegroom,
John William, only son of Mr. and Mrs.
Arthur Gubbins, of Coolana, Chatsworth,
had Ronald Little as best man. Grooms-
men were Richard Jamieson, James
Maffett and Donald Richardson. Recep-
tion was held at the home of the bride’s
parenis.
☆ ☆ .☆
To celebrate the coming-of-age of their
daughter Sandra, Mr. and Mrs. E. L.
Moran gave a dinner-dance at their
Sandringham home, to which 100 friends
were invited. The guest-of-honor, who
is an old Clyde girl, wore a short frock
of blue-and-white pure-silk in a floral
design picked-out in blue sequins. It had
an off-shoulder bodice and bouffant
skirt. Her grandparents, Mr. and Mrs.
L. E. T. Moran and Mr. and Mrs. S.
Osmond, were present. Sandra, who
recently returned from a holiday in Tas-
mania, where she stayed with Dr. and
Mrs. Max Clemons, hopes to have a
trip abroad later this year.
# V V
When she is married to Francis Duffy,
son of Mr. and Mrs. F. Duffy, of Kew,
next Wednesday (January 28) at Our
Lady of Good Counsel Church, Deep-
dene, Susan Parker, daughter of Captain
and Mrs. C. Parker, also of Kew, will
have her twin sister, Mrs. Paul Fitz-
gerald, as her matron-of-honor.
News has come from London of the
engagement of Gillian Margaret, eldest
daughter of Mr. A. P. Whitaker, of
Winchester, England, and the late Mrs.
Whitaker, to David Peter, only son of
Mr. and Mrs. A. G. Gale, of Upper
Hawthorn. They will marry on Decem-
ber 27 at Winchester College Chapel,
where Gillian’s father is a classics-master.
David, an old Geelong Grammarian, is
doing a post-graduate medical course in
London. While in residence at Trinity
College, Melbourne University, David
was hon. secretary of the Victorian Sym-
phony Orchestra Subscribers’ Committee.
David’s sister, Angela, a physiotherapist
at the Repatriation Hospital, Heidelberg,
will sail for England in the Strathaird on
November 27. She will be in England
for the wedding, and later plans to do
post-graduate studies there and in the
U.S.


it, the biggest of Britain’s colonial
barracks. In Bridge Street, only a few
feet from where one is sweating blood
to purvey Mr. Scott’s book to the
public, an earlier hack “saw a man
walk across the yard with blood that
had run from his lacerated back
squashing out of his shoes.” It was
the Lumber Yard, where convict
blacksmiths, coopers, iron- and brass-
founders, nailers, carpenters, shoe-
makers, tailors and harness-makers
labored; and there were installed the
flogging-triangles where flogging went
on “incessantly, for hours.”
Scott makes a rather good job of
the extension of Pitt Street, which used
to end at Hunter Street, by the gradual
filling-in of the Tank Stream; and his
picture of Simeon Lord’s and Mary
Reibey’s mansiosis in that area, long
before the convicts had started build-
ing Circular Quay, makes one wish
that things hadn’t changed—until one
reflects that one would in that case
have been less likely to have been
wealthy emancipist Lord, with whaling
fleets and merchandise and the beauti-
ful house on page 150, than one of
the workers in the Lumber Yard being
flogged on page 145 .. .
Scott peoples his streets and brings
them to life with many Sydney worthies
and not-so-worthies; notably Samuel
Terry, who operated from his wife’s
tavern near the present G.P.0., and
collected Pitt Street rents worth
£lO,OOO a year. His farms brought him
in £50,000 a year, and he discounted
£300,000-worth of . bills a year for
merchants and shopkeepers. Then
there was Wilson, who had an iron-
mongery almost on the present site of
Nock and Kirby’s in the 1830’s; he
dallied publicly with lost creatures,
provoked John Dunmore Lang to loud
denunciations in prose and verse,
bolted, owing thousands of pounds,
returned, piled-up more debts, sailed
away again with “£60,000-worth of the
town’s merchandise and coin,” and was
never seen again.
And then again, there was Mr.
Levey’s Royal Hotel and Theatre
Royal, in George Street where
Dymocks is now, which were burnt
down soon after Levey’s death, and
were followed by a new Royal Hotel,
which lasted 80 years: “No other hotel
since, not even the sybaritic Australia,
has ever held quite the same place in
the city’s social life.” Before it was
burnt down the Theatre Royal had
been superseded by the Royal Vic-
toria, in Pitt Street; and one of Scott’s
most startling scenes is the story of
how the arrest of two sailors after a
brawl in the Royal Victoria in 1841
started a riot in which the other sailors
from the ship, at the head of a mob of
several hundred from The Rocks,
battered down the door of the Cumber-
land Street watch-house, freed all its
prisoners, marched to the St. James
watch-house and smashed it open, too;
marched on the main Police Office in
George Street, were met by the Gov-
ernor at the head of the military in
the Police Office Square, and after
two volleys of ball-cartridges fled, upon
which “the constables rushed out with
their staves and fell promiscuously
upon all and sundry, without reference
to age or sex.”
Maybe there is little here that the
student of old Sydney hasn’t seen; but
Scott has organised it well and tightly;
and, discounting Lola Montez, Francis
Greenway, the Tichborne claimant and
other such hardly annuals, most of it
is of fresh interest to the present unhis-
torical reviewer. Some 70 illustrations
show how well Australia has been
served by its artists —one can only
exclaim again at the excellence of the
workers for the “Illustrated Sydney
News.” The pictures have been dis-
tributed throughout the book as part
of the type-page, and this way of using
illustrations, instead of having them on
plate-paper in sections or tipped-in,
improves a book out of sight.
As to Beresford Rea’s discursive
trip from Melbourne to Sydney, it
keeps the reader well-enough enter-
tained with chit-chat about graziers,
bushrangers, explorers, old-fashioned
country stores, Mittagong iron, graves
of policemen shot by bandits, etc.; but
he rarely touches the heights of a few
paragraphs on pages 169-170, where
he is not remembering what he has
been told but is crying from the heart:
Most of the cafes in the Hume
Highway towns are now in the
hands of our Greek allies, and the
road is dotted with Parthenons,
Marathons and Acropoli. Their
premises, often extensive, are usually
up-to-date with chromium, neon,
artificial marble, and glass-topped
tables, but, be they large or small,
the food is always the same—fish
from the freezing-chamber, or tough
chops and tougher steaks, though
the sausages and eggs certainly are
tender.
The invariable accompaniment of
any order is a round or two of beet-
root, with a spoonful of its reddish
juice and a few tired, limp leaves of
whitish-green lettuce, though some
of the swarthy proprietors, in a mad
rush to be different, depart from
tradition by shredding their lettuce.
Shredded or whole, however, it is
equally repulsive. With your fish
or grill there will also be a helping
of soggy potato chips, fried in some
unmentionable fat or oil. As for
the tea and coffee, the less said the
better....
The hotels will certainly do you
better if you are lucky enough to be
able to get a meal in any of them
in these spacious, independent days.
Too often, it’s either too late or
too early, or the chef’s decided to
get drunk, or the shortage of staff
makes it impossible to cater for the
travelling public.
That is real writing, and an addi-
tional reason why one should stay at
home and read Mr. Rea’s book, and
not go trying to find out things for
oneself along the Hume Highway.
Book Design
In Modern Book Design from
William Morris to the Present Day
(Faber), Ruari McLean has enlarged
and brought up to date a British
Council job he published in 1951. It
is a highly compressed account, very
informative on changes in book-design,
and on the designers themselves, in
England, Europe and America.
One of the most influential, for
instance, was the American, Bruce
Rogers, who designed type and went
over to England to design books for
the Cambridge University Press. .
Penguin Books, first designed by
Edward Young, were in 1945 put in the
hands of a Swiss, Jan Tschichold, as
chief typographical designer. Chatto
and Windus books were brought to
leadership in British design by Charles
Prentice, a director in the firm, until
1934, when two other directors, lan
Parsons and Norah Smallwood, took-
over. For many years the chief work of
Berthold Wolpe, a German expert on
type and decoration, a pupil of Koch,
has been designing books and book-
jackets for Fabers. The Gollancz
covers of black on yellow, and title-
pages in which the small, simple and
severe type is used so effectively, are
the work of the English designer,
Stanley Morison. All these things
help to explain to the bibliophile and
collector why he can recognise a Cape
book, or a Faber book, etc., from a
page of the type, or a long-distance
view of the jacket.
The great days of the private press
and limited editions seem to be over:
how great they were may be imagined
from McLean’s examples from a 1930
bookseller’s catalogue of three
books: —•
Bede’s History of the Church of
England, printed in 1930, on vellum,
in quarter-pigskin and oak boards
cut from a Brasenose college beam —-
200 dollars. Froissart’s Cronycles,
printed 1927-28, in 8 volumes
“with over 600 armorial bearings
colored by hand, one of three sets
printed on Japon vellum with silk
ties, contained in leather book-
shaped cases” —900 dollars. Para-
dise Lost and Paradise Regained,
Cresset Press, 1930, with 20 wood
engravings by Galanis and initial
letters designed by Anna Simons;


LONDON
TOPSIDE
or THE FUTURE OF ENGLAND
J. B. PRIESTLEY
A provocative, well - argued TT /JL
piece of campaigning literature. •I **
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
: : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : :
AUCKLAND
WEST COAST STORIES
Selected by H. DRAKE-BROCKMAN
An impressive and unique anthology of stories by Western Australian writers, designed as
a tribute to the memory of Joseph Furphy, the famous author of Such Is Life. Most
of the 23 contributors are well known in Australia and some, such as Murdoch, Prichard
and Casey, are already part of the history of Australian literature. 20/- (post 7d.)
Available from all booksellers and . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
195 copies on handmade paper —
20 guineas; 10 copies on Roman
Vellum —200 guineas.
Nowadays the emphasis is on paper-
covers, in many of which the typo-
graphy is as good as the best typo-
graphy of pre-paper-cover days.
Illustrated with plates of title-pages,
and textual examples of type-designs,
and replete with such stories as that of
Cobden-Sanderson, who threw the
punches for his types into the river so
that no one could print books in them
after him, it is a book of considerable
interest for its own sake, and of even
greater value to collectors.
Reviewed Briefly
High Road to Hunza: Barbara
Mons (Faber). Mrs. Mons and her
husband drove in a Land-Rover, through
Turkey and Persia to Hunza, which
is a self-governing State within Paki-
stan, “where the icy peaks of the
Karakoram meet those of the Hindu
Kush.” She gives an interesting
account of this remote spot, where she
was the guest of the ruling Mir, but the
style of the book as a whole is very
much that of a guidebook—where they
slept and what they had for dinner,
with a few dutiful trips to ruins, etc.
* * * *
Worlds Apart: Tudor Edwards
(Longmans). This most unusual travel-
book is a tour of European mona-
steries: England, Spain, Italy, Belgium,
France. It is extremely well written,
up to date with living anecdotes of
the monasteries, and the author has a
special interest in art and architecture.
* * * *
Magic and the Magician: Noel
Streatfield (Benn). Subtitled “E.
Nesbit and her Children’s Books,” this
is a biography of the author of “Wet
Magic” and “The Magic City,” which
have been republished simultaneously
with the Life. Born in 1858, Edith
Nesbit did not begin writing children’s
books until she was nearly 40, when
her journalist-husband was hard-up.
H. G. Wells thought that both of them,
as members of the Fabian Society, were
“fundamentally intricate.” The bio-
graphy, however, is fundamentally
simple, and will best suit children
anxious to ascertain how the Ugly-
Wuglies, etc., came into being.
* * * *
The Inn with the Wooden Door:
Norman Mac Swan (Cassell). A com-
petent manhunt novel by an Australian
journalist now living in London. Just
after the Korean war an Englishman
who had earlier defected to the Chinese
Communists and made anti-West
broadcasts turns out to have been a
British agent all along. The Com-
munists have found out, and he is on
the run south from Pyongyang. An
English journalist, helped by two of
the agent’s former sweethearts and an
Australian reporter (who, oddly
enough, is big, tough, blasphemous,
gentle, can wangle anything and calls
everyone “mate”) are trying to get a
vital message to him from the British,
who, of course, cannot show their hand.
A “wow” ending supplies, a bit too
late, the sort of meaning the story all
along seems to lack. Local color
(good) and propaganda (poor) slow it
down considerably.
* * * *
The Magic Shell: photographed and
written by Nadine Amadio (Ure
Smith). Mark is a small boy from
the country who comes to visit Sydney
and inspects the wharves, the Botanic
Gardens, the Bridge, the beaches, etc.
This simple story is told in very simple
language and illustrated with excellent
photographs: it would be a pleasant
gift-book for intending migrants.
* * * •
Flight to Formosa: Frank Clune
(Angus and Robertson). There is no
doubt that Frank Clune gets around.
Here he has been to Hong Kong,
Macao and Quemoy, and in Formosa
asked Chiang Kai-shek to tell him
exactly when and where the Nationalists
proposed to return to the mainland. At
the question of where, the Generalis-
simo “smiled blandly”; at “when” he
looked at the interviewer unsmilingly
and regretted that “at this stage I
cannot disclose our plans.”
* 4 * *
A Country Window: Richard Church
(Heinemann). A selection from the
essays on country matters which
Richard Church has written once a
week for (London) “Truth”: birds,
beasts, rustics and the poets Davies
and Frost. The book is not likely to
have the appeal of his best-selling auto-
biography, yet this is a field in which
Church has always written charmingly
and with distinction.
* * * *
The Sisters: Hugh Ross Williamson
(Michael Joseph). Mary and Elizabeth
Tudor in the last four years of the
former’s reign. Styled a “novel with-
out fiction,” the author's sympathies
are wholeheartedly with Mary, whom
he depicts as prematurely old, pining
for her hated Spanish husband and the
son she would never bear. Not the
legendary Bloody Mary and decidedly
not Good Queen Bess, who is seen as
the centre of every conspiracy against
the Crown. The justification for this
whitewashing treatment is Elizabeth’s
purported destruction of documents
when she came to the throne and the
author’s access to Spanish State papers
that were only calendared in 1954. An
interesting theory is that Maiy, while
treating Elizabeth as her sister, believed
she was sired by Anne Boleyn’s lover,
Mark Smeaton.


No. 2
u
KEY MEN
mm
r
i
m H
. -
wm
m
«£v»«S
~,^
- _ i &!imsK- tM.
:• ' v-
f
:->yf■■:■•'<■'■•■-
'■ •••■■•■■
Conventional Staff Superannuation Plans may not always be adequate
in the case of “Key Men”J.
What is really needed is heavy emphasis on protection against death,
combined with modified retirement benefits.
A.M.P. “Key Man" plans are tailored to meet the needs of the
individual and his company.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
GENERAL MANAGER: M. C. BUTT FIELD
Every
A.M.P.
member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by funds exceeding
£375,000,000 which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.
ZII7C
