

The Bulletin
The " Takeover” Boom —page ?,o
Wednesday , August 5, 1959
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
" Frankly, dear, I wouldn't be seen dead in a thing like this even if
it did cost twelve guineas."


LEARN
How to Write
STORIES/ARTICLES
SUCCESSFULLY
STOTT’S CAN TRAIN YOU
STOTT’S COURSE
will provide you with interesting,
Practical, Home-study Instruction of
the highest quality, under the guidance
of thoroughly experienced Instructors.
Literary Prospectus Free.
Write at once for your copy.
15!) Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castle-
rea&h St., Sydney ; 290 Adelaide St., Bris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St.. Adelaide; 254 Murray
St., Perth.
CUT AXP MAIL THIS COl'l’OX
To STOTT'S: I’lease send me. without any
obligation, your I ’rnspevtus. and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
,\rY NAME
ADUIiKSS
A(1 K (S.n. 1559)
BOOKIUNTER, Box 3671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
tee only if successful.
NORTH AUSTRALIAN
MONTHLY
Subscribe to this 56-page magazine (est. 1954)
with Outback about Nth.
Qld., N.T., and Kimberleys. Informative
articles, good fiction. 30/- p.a. post free from:
North Australian Monthly, P.O. Box 116,
Darwin, N.T.
The Red Page
TALKABOUT WALKABOUT
People tend to go blank-eyed and
yawn delicately the twentieth time one
mentions the prophetic words of
“Banjo” . Paterson to the present
reviewer a few years before he died:
“Up in the Northern Territory—that’s
where the material is.” But one
wouldn’t be able to bring it up for the
twentieth time if yet another journey
to the Northern Territory had not been
recorded: Walkabout, by Charles and
Elsa Chauvel (W. H. Allen).
Which is not to say all these
chroniclers are not reliable; they must
be, because they all say much the same
thing. Moreover, they have different
excuses for going there: some write
about it because they have seen things
they have never seen before; others,
like Douglas Lockwood, because they
have been there ten years or more and
can write about it from the inside;
others because it has never been done
before with one hand bandaged in a
car with a left-hand drive; and Mr.
and Mrs. Chauvel because a trip “from
the Great Divide to Port Augusta, and
from Port Augusta to the strange lands
away in the north....had never been
undertaken with cameras before.”
They did it for the 8.8. C., a TV-
travelogue.
So readers worn-out from perishes
undertaken with Idriess, Clune, Simp-
son, Lockwood, Cleary, George Far-
well, Ernestine Hill, etc., might
dismiss lightly the drover cooking
chops on a shovel on the road to
Broken Hill —only if he were cooking
chops on a Chauvel would it be news
to them; but there must still be many
who have never read a book about
such country, and for them this book
can be recommended as a first-rate,
up-to-date vicarious walkabout.
If they missed the detailed account
of the outback-radio and ffying-doctor
services in Jon Cleary’s new novel,
they can read here how the system
works, and how, by outback radio,
travellers are reported and followed
from station to station. If they failed
to suffer with Darcy Niland’s heroine
on the opal-fields, and have not read
half-a-dozen others on Lightning
Ridge and Coober Pedy, they will find
here a real-life account by Mrs.
Chauvel of life in a Coober Pedy dug-
out, where light and air are let into
the bedroom through a hole in the roof
with a few planks laid across it to
prevent passers-by dropping in.
For them, it will be as if for the
first time they travelled on the Afghan
Express, “The ’Ghan,” from Quorn,
and ate in its dining-car with mission-
aries, hotel-keepers, tourists, crocodile-
hunters, station-owners, prospectors,
mining-engineers, buffalo-shooters and
unexpectedly exotic females. Those
who missed Arthur Upfield’s “Death
of a Lake” will see here, from the
real-life cliffs above Lake Cadibarra-
wirracanna, how
The salt waters of Baita Baltana
widened by inches until it turned
into the lake in the distance—silver-
white for as far as the eye could see.
There was death all along this
strange seashore. Many eagles had
fought to the end here or had been
killed by wild foxes or dingoes while
they drank. There were rotting
carcasses of wild dogs, and skulls
lay half-eaten and spewed out again
by some monster —later we found
that monster lying coiled under a
log. It was a big carpet-snake with
the leg of a rabbit still dangling from
its mouth.
Nor let it be said that the published
rhapsodies of Beth Deane, J. K.
Ewers, Alan Marshall and others have
deprived the Chauvels of the pleasure
of describing corroborees; Mrs. Chau-
vel reports a dance put on specially in
their honor, each section portraying one
of the Chauvel party —a world-
premiere:—
From our activities they had figured
out that he [Charles] was the “No.
1 Man” of the team —so settled for
an outsized native carrying a big
stick, and with a pair of field-glasses
painted with white clay upon his
chest. The long stick he waved con-
stantlv during the dance in a
dictatorial fashion.
I was the last to be portrayed, in
the form of a stocky native dressed
as a woman. He carried a station-
ledger as a “script-book” and
followed the other three natives
slavishly about their gambotlings—
at the same time .making imaginary
stabs at the script-book with a piece
of stick for a pencil.
The account of the aboriginal dances
is balanced by an account of prepara-
tions for the ball that concluded the
five-day picnic-races at Brunette
Downs:—
Four of the five days were given
over to racing, the last race of each
day being ridden by aborigine
jockeys, who chose a native judge.
Urged on by their screaming friends
and families, all decked out in yellow
and green satin rodeo-shirts, and
crowded on to every vehicle that
could act as a grandstand, the
jockeys rode like demons. On the
last day there was a rip-roaring
Rodeo, and a formal Ball in the
evening to close the meeting. Our
enclosure was like an Eastern bazaar
as the girls prepared their dresses.
Silks and satins were spread every-
where, on posts and guy-ropes, on
the portable tables pulled out from
the tents. It was a marvellous bustle,
with girls desperately wielding petrol-
irons to subdue yards of billowing
net and tulle. This was the most
important date in the year for some
of them... . Would he propose or in
his shyness dedicate them both to
another year of loneliness?
We meet English-born Sister
Harmes. first nurse in the world to give
an injection of penicillin, now married
to a stockman 160 miles from Inna-
minka; Helen Jocelyn, formerly child
star of the Chauvel films “The Over-
landers” and “Bush Christmas,” now
married to a partner in a cattle-station
of almost a million acres near the
Everard Ranges, 2000 miles from her
old home in Sydney; and we see the
authors chasing buffalo at high speed
on Marrakai station, scene of the
Chauvel film “Jedda.”
The book is illustrated with fine
sepia stills from films taken on the
journey: stockmen, cattle-yards fenced
with petrol-drums because of the short-
age of wood ; the girls’ shower-room
at the picnic-races; horned lizards;
(Continued on page 58)


WONDER GREASE
i
NOW! One grease ... one gun
for al! these farm jobs—
Farm Machinery
Complete protection for
shearing machinery,
pumps, windmills and
other stationary
equipment.
Farm Implements
Harvesters, combines, disc
ploughs—all mobile
equipment, including
wheeled tractors.
Cars, Trucks, Wheel Tractors
«*•
All chassis points, springs,
shackles, water-pumps,
universal joints, wheel bearings.
MEANS* ONE GREASE... ONE GUN
Why use specialised greases when one grease
will do all jobs . . . and do them better?
Ampol Lithium-base Multi-purpose Grease
is amazingly versatile ... it resists heat, cold,
water, rust and corrosion . . . affords com-
plete protection under all service conditions.
It stays in bearings longer; keeps out dirt
and grit; means substantial savings in time
and maintenance costs. From this moment
on . . . use only one gun, one grease . . •
Ampol Multi-purpose.
Except where equipment manufacturer specifies
a free flowing, semi-fluid grease or gear oil for
the lubrication of track rollers on crawler
tractors.
AUSTRALIAN
*
OWNED
!
- y
dMPOL
-Ty;|
WM
mm
pSMS
HOMOGENISED
GREASE
MULTI-PURPOSE
RED
£
*■ 4


The Bulletin
Wednesday, August 5, 1959
Vol. 80—No. 4147
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man’
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 436-440 King William St.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
TWO DRIVERS
'T'WO Parliaments and two Budgets
A will be features of politics in
August.
One group of legislators will
meet in Canberra to consider and
plan for the coming year the finances
of the Commonwealth —or, rather,
accept the finances as already planned
for them by Treasury officials by kind
permission of the Cabinet and Mr.
Holt.
Another will emit its figures from
Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Both Budgets and the policies
inherent in them affect the whole of
the population of Australia. New
South Wales holds .two-fifths of the
people of the Commonwealth, and its
economies or extravagances make
rings on the surface of Australian
prosperity right out to the coastline in
every direction.
The same applies to each and every
one of the other five States. And there
is no correlation of policy, no
common method of detailed taxation
(apart from uniform income-tax)
among these separate slices. There is
often, indeed, a competitive spirit
which manifests itself in a tendency in
some of them to prove how much
more they are prepared to give in
return for votes than a Common-
wealth Government or the Govern-
ment of some other State of a
different political color.
Mr. Cahill, of N.S.W., is in this
category. He plays a lone hand, since
the Tasmanian Government can
scarcely be termed a Labor Govern-
ment in the true sense of the word,
being a sort of nondescript, almost
extinct, marsupial. Mr. Cahill is the
forlorn hope of Labor in the Com-
monwealth who lives his life hotly
pursued by his Liberal-Country party
opponents, and a fugitive also from
A.L.P. stand-over groups who holds-off
the wolves by remaining still only long
enough to throw them bits of meat
and then running for his life again.
How Mr. Cahill obtains the meat he
doesn’t much care. Some he gets by
sobbing on the shoulder of the
Federal Treasurer at Premiers’ and
Loan Council conferences; some he
snatches rudely from industry and
commerce, sometimes in the shape of
land-taxes and what-have-you; and
some he gouges out of the State trust-
funds, hoping that in the future a
good fairy will take a liking to him
and enable him to put it back in time
to beat bankruptcy.
TN the past Mr. Cahill has been an
1 artist at feeding electors on phantom
schemes for giant power-stations and
other public-works of tremendous
import which form in his brain around
election-time.
This policy of Mr. Cahill’s has been
a relatively innocent form of playing
politics; but it has become a little
shopworn. And he apparently is finding
it tougher going, and is beginning to
take more and more desperate measures
to placate the following which keeps
him in power.
The wolves are all round him now,
determined and ready to eat Mr.
Cahill’s political trousers if they can
get nothing else. They began to close
in noticeably before the election, but
by adroit dodging and judicious
promises of political bribes to come,
he succeeded in getting back to the
shelter of Macquarie Street, whence
his Budget is to be launched.
He can scarcely be feeling happy
about what it holds or about its
realities. And neither can industry,
which has to condition itself to Mr.
Cahill’s lavish methods of placation.
Mr. Cahill’s gifts to the nation by
way of collecting votes included, before
the last election, equal pay for both
sexes, a concession for which there
did not appear to be much demand.
But this was a circumstance beside
the other plans which were wished on
to him and to which he will have to
adjust his finances, like his victims in
industry and commerce, from now
onward.
His hottest pursuers, who are them-
selves desperate to maintain the back-
ing of workers who are gradually dis-
carding principles of “direct-action”
for new and more enlightened ones
depending on incentives, have been
the Red union-leaderships and their
helot spearhead of the A.C.T.U.
These bodies chose the coal-
industry as their point of entry into
a new exercise in rapacity and taxa-
tion of industry. They chose cun-
ningly—an industry in which Mr.
Cahill would have no excuses for not
acting once they took him by the
throat. So they demanded a 35-hour
week in the State mines, with higher
pay, a month’s holiday in the year,
and a few other perks.
This demand was put at a confer-
ence with Mr. Cahill’s '-Ministers,
Simpson and Renshaw, behind closed
doors, and was followed by some
bullying of Mr. Simpson publicly with
open threats as to what might happen
to his political career if he didn’t
follow the line of the Communist
leadership of the miners.
Mr. Cahill’s response, however,, was
an apparently forthright and manly
statement that it would be impossible
for him to make any pronouncement
on the 35-hour week and the other
concessions demanded until the com-
mission on automation, which he had
appointed and which was hearing
evidence, had given its findings.
This was before the election; and
as soon as that ordeal was over Mr.
Cahill forgot about the Automation
Commission and surrendered all the
way along the line to the demands
regarding the hours and holidays at the
State mines, though his oppressors
allowed him to keep some of his self-
respect by making the week hours
instead of 35. Their victim announced
that the railways would pay part of
the cost and the Electricity Commis-
sion the rest; which, of course, means
that ultimately the public pays the lot.
The managements of the State
mines were not represented at the con-
ferences which the Ministers held with
union-leaders. It was all settled
politically.
THE A.C.T.U. has now called a con-
A ference for August 31, with the
backing of the N.S.W. Trades and
Labor Council, and having got Mr.
Cahill’s agreement in principle, it will
proceed to twist his arm for a general
35-hour week, setting the pace for the
rest of the Commonwealth and placing
further handicaps on Australian
industry through shorter hours.
Of course, all the burden of uneven-
ness of conditions and financial
burdens does not come from the State
quarter, as demonstrated by the fact
that the N.S.W. State basic wage is
7s. a week less than the Federal basic
wage in the same localities.
It is obvious that if there is one
thing that is badly needed in Australia
it is some uniform control over the
national financial policy, so
that unscrupulous Governments can’t
debauch portions of the electorate and
start Australian costs on the upgrade
whenever they find their positions in
danger and need to buy votes, irrespec-
tive of the effects on national pros-
perity or the interests of other States
which can’t control them and which
have to carry them as part of the
national handicap.
The Australian national wagon
under the present system always has
two drivers, at least, and these rarely
agree on where they aim to go. No
wagon can follow a straight path
in those circumstances.


BREAKING THE ICE


PLAIN ENGLISH
Trans-Pacific Record
The dispatch of the first Boeing 707
on the Sydney-San Francisco run was
an .historic occasion for a good many
people present, and especially for
Hudson Fysh and Captain. “Scotty”
Allen, who can remember what it was
like to fly passengers in open cockpits.
The giant doesn’t at first glance look
big until the eye sweeps its length and
watches it engulfing passengers at both
ends. It can take 144.
Its behavior belied the horrifying
descriptions of its alleged dirty habits
which have provided the daily press and
local aldermen with so much meat for
sensationalism.
It certainly makes a very rude noise
when it taxis off the million-pounds’-
worth of concrete yard at Mascot, which
Hudson Fysh insists on referring to as
“our farm”; but it is in fact a less ear-
splitting noise than that made by old-
fashioned propellers. It moved away
from the seated crowd without causing
it more than normal inconvenience with
its slipstream. And when it finally took-
off, its roar was not heard in the enclosed
dining-room of the overseas terminal,
newly extended and furbished for jet
traffic.
Fourteen hours and 57 minutes later
it was over the tower at San Francisco.
It had made Nandi in Fiji, 1500 miles
away from its starting-point, in 3 hours
38 minutes, which is what it used to
take to get from Sydney to Melbourne
a very few years ago.
It clocked-in at Honolulu 6 hours and
31 minutes later, and made the last
2000-odd miles to San Francisco in
another 4 hours 48 minutes. It thus
halved the Pacific Ocean record.
It is a very far cry back to the day
when Qantas flew its first passenger, the
pioneer pastoralist Alexander Kennedy,
across Western Queensland only 37 years
ago, and the years when it was possible
to see Fysh and Brain taking-off in their
wobbling kites on the Longreach-Charle-
ville run in the middle ’twenties —and
sometimes coming down on the plains
on the way to do odd repairs in a dusty
gale of wind.
The inauguration of the jet service
across the Pacific is basically the result
of Australian pioneering work. Qantas
pioneered commercial flying on a prac-
ticable and permanent scale in Australia.
Qantas flew the first trans-ocean mails.
And Australians, dating from Kingsford
Smith and Ulm, are the undisputed
pioneers of the opening-up of the Pacific
routes, like all the other routes that
centre on Australia —those to South-east
Asia, to Europe, to Africa and to lapan.
No doubt the Boeing service will
usher in an era of intense competition,
especially when the South American
routes have been pioneered.
For Australia, the rule should be the
more the merrier, subject to the condition
that competition should not be cut-
throat, and that a national effort should
be made to maintain the lead which Aus-
tralia’s own airline has so well earned.
And it should not be forgotten that
whatever the merits of United States
aircraft (or any other aircraft), the day
is coming when Australia should be able
to build its own and supply other Pacific
countries into the bargain.
Campbell, of "The Age"
Harold Alfred Maurice (hence “Ham”)
Campbell, editor of Melbourne “Age,”
died suddenly last week two days after
he had caught a cold, and Victoria lost
a calm, pleasant and wisely tolerant
journalist whose qualities were reflected
in one of the nation’s most respected
dailies.
Ham Campbell began as a printer’s
devil, and although he was born at
Ballarat (Vic.) started his reporting career
in West Australia. He was a member
of Melbourne “Herald” staff in 1920
after winning the Military Medal in
France, was appointed “The Age’s”
political writer in 1921, leader-writer in
1926 and editor in 1939, when “The
Age” was, politically, unbearably
portentous.
He elevated the newspaper to political
importance and national prestige.
He was a member of the Australian
delegation to the United Nations con-
ference at San Francisco in 1945, and in
1949 one of the three non-governmental
advisers to the Australian delegation at
the U.N. General Assembly in New York.
Although he was vice-chairman of
David Syme and Co., the “Age” pub-
lishers, and of other companies, he
insisted on remaining a working journa-
list and retaining his editor’s desk ; and
he was often among the strap-hangers
on the trams from his East Melbourne
flat to “The Age” office.
He was knighted in 1957.
Money in the Bag
[From “Collins Street”]
Racing-clubs in Victoria are confident
the off-course tote will soon be a reality,
and claim to have £200,000 in the kitty
to start it off.
Why this extravagant opening is con-
templated may be better understood after
the Government has introduced the bill
to set-up the tote during the session which
begins on September 1.
(Rylah, who is both Attorney-General
and Chief Secretary, disclaims knowledge
of any bill, and a voice from that dual
Ministerial vantage - post should be
authoritative. Still, he returned from
New Zealand an enthusiast for the off-
course tote, and it is possible he is not
anxious at present to antagonise the
backbench Liberals who haven’t yet
been consulted about it.)
Nothing like this amount was needed
(or, indeed, available) to start-off the
original off-course tote in New Zealand.
There the protagonists began modestly
by renting premises in two small towns,
and, as their funds grew, extended their
operations.
- The New Zealanders were experiment-
ing, of course, with little money to spare
and under hostile attention at first;
the Victorians, who will have the N.Z.
experience as a guide, and, if they are
wise, some senior N.Z. officers to assist
in launching the tote in Victoria, no
doubt feel they can begin in bolder style.
Still, £200,000 is a bold sum in any
currency.
The foolish opposition of the churches
to this proposed reform of the sordid
s.-p. ..business seems to have been elimi-
nated in recent months, and the race-
clubs are now assuring the supporters
of legal bookmakers that they have no
intention of abolishing the licensed book-
maker on the racecourse; the New
Zealanders have made a grave mistake
in doing this/ and their race-meetings,
without the cries from the Ring, seem
rather eerie, like a silent movie.
The financial prospects from the off-
course tote are truly glittering, even if
there is a decline in the amount wagered
s.-p. currently, and it will, without doubt,
put Victoria far ahead, in racing prestige
and prizes, of the States which continue
to tolerate the back-lane bookies.
Another Playford Daydream
In a radio-talk last week South Austra-
lian Premier Playford gave details of a
plan for the large-scale development of
waste land near Port Adelaide. This
will involve the levelling of sandhills, the
reclaiming of swampland and the
realignment of long stretches of the Port
River frontage.
Port Adelaide is on an inlet of St.
Vincent Gulf; its Outer Harbor is a
purely artificial harbor outside the mouth
of the inlet, about seven miles away.
Much of the land on Lefevre Peninsula
between the inlet and the gulf, particu-
larly near the Outer Harbor, consists of
sandhills and low scrub —dreary-looking
and virtually undeveloped. It is proposed
to level this area to provide almost a
square-mile of land for a housing project
—“garden suburb” is the Premier’s term.
The soil not needed for levelling will be
taken to the other side of the Port River
where it will be used to reclaim a much
larger area which is now mainly
mangrove swamp and low-lying land
often inundated by high tides.
Three new docks will extend the
wharfage of the inner port down to the
North Arm and behind this frontage
about 1130 acres of reclaimed land will
be subdivided to provide commercial and
industrial sites to which it is hoped to
attract new industries. Further industrial
sites will be provided along the western
banks of the Port River between Osborne
powerhouse and the Outer Harbor. It
is hoped that this part of the scheme will
make Lefevre Peninsula “a self-balancing
unit.”
Playford sees it as a new community
of 6000 homes and 25,000 people, most
of them dependent on local industry for
employment. The proposed industrial
areas on the eastern side of the river


he expects to provide avenues of employ-
ment for residents of Adelaide’s northern
suburbs and the satellite town Elizabeth,
with which they will be linked by direct
road. Other parts of the plan provide
for reclaiming swampy upper reaches of
the Port River to provide further land
for housing.
Many of these projects have been
discussed before, but the plan is a co-
ordinated scheme for the ordered
development of the whole area. It’s a
long-term plan which will change the
whole character of the Port Adelaide
area. In pre-Playford days it would
have been dismissed as a mere daydream,
but Playford’s daydreams have a con-
sistent record of becoming reality.
First with the Latest
No sooner had Victoria’s wandering
Premier and his party hit Essendon than
the tumult and the shouting rose, drown-
ing out the hosannas for the returning
vanquishers of the City of London and
Wall Street.
No doubt Bolte and his shrewd private
henchman, Maurice Nathan, and his
official henchmen led by Sir John Jung-
wirth, expected undivided attention after
what had been apparently a successful
promotional tour ; in that case they had
reckoned without those who had already
landed.
Sir Chester Manifold, chairman of the
Victorian Racing Club, bounded out of
the starting-stalls (like his Misting in the
Lightning Stakes) with the announce-
ment that the racing-clubs could find
ample money to launch the off-course
tote. He had thus snitched Page 1,
Column 1, before Bolte could put a foot
on the tarmac.
The others were soon in full gallop
for the remaining limelight. Sir Arthur
Warner, the Minister for Transport —a
Minister who hasn’t had a trip—came
up uncharitably with the announcement
of a £400,000 underpass at Oakleigh;
and McEwen (Federal), in Perth, came
to light with some glowing fiscal
prognostications at a C.P. conference,
but he was too far-off to be accused
of any malicious intent of crowding the
Premier’s tale of achievement.
Finally, almost squeezing the tourists
from the front page altogether, Mr.
Menzies and Mr. Kaye indulged in some
banter after the P.M. had seen Danny’s
show. It showed these wits at less than
their best, but it was engaging copy.
The Premier’s difficulty in giving a
report to the State is chiefly that he is
bound by business honor or prudence
or promise to withhold specific facts;
so what he can disclose seems peculiarly
undocumented and unauthoritative
coming from the head of the State.
He predicted that, as a result of the
mission, industries worth more than £IOO
million would come to Victoria within
the next few years ; within the next few
months representatives of dozens of over-
seas companies would visit Victoria to
see the great potentialities for opening
new industries and expanding existing
ones.
Most of the big companies interested
in opening in Victoria are in the auto-
motive engineering and petrochemical
fields. (These are two of the most
prosperous of all industries since the war.)
He didn’t say so, but it is evident
that he got his most encouraging recep-
tion in London, although, of course, the
mission set out with hopes centred on
dollar and Continental capital.
Yet the mission found the U.K.,
returning once more to strength and in-
vestment, still showing most interest in
our country.
Lookee See
Of all six clergymen who were inveigled
into a flying-visit to Russia, China and
Czechoslovakia, the Rev. E. Lyall
Williams, principal of the Churches of
Christ College of the Bible in Glen Iris,
a Melbourne suburb, returned most
deeply impressed with the “religious
freedom in China.”
His statement to the Melbourne press
was printed gravely and at length,
although the only genuine observed in-
formation he could reasonably have
gathered in such a bustling trip over
such vast territory is that most aero-
dromes, Communist or democratic, look
alike from the air.
The traveller found that the Christian
church in China was free to pursue its
religious life. This freedom, however,
did not include “the perpetuation of
denominational divisions,” and “the door
to missionary-work was definitely closed”
because “Western church missionaries
have been regarded as definite instru-
ments of imperialism.”
This would not appeal to those living
in the Western imperialisms as religious
freedom. The clergyman went on to
explain the rule of the Red bosses over
the church as: “In all three countries
there was evidence of the Church’s
appreciation of the efforts of the State
to improve the lot of the common man,”
and “There is indeed a spirit of deep
satisfaction upon the part of the Christian
community at the Church’s identification
with the people generally in their total
life.”
This drew the tart rejoinder in a St.
Patrick’s Cathedral statement that he
could hardly have expected to find any
evidence of persecution, since he was
visiting countries of a total population
of 900 million, with a land-area of 12-
million square-miles, presumably did not
speak Russian, Chinese or Czech, and
had to rely on Communist interpreters.
The cathedral statement referred to
the July 24 accusation by the Inter-
national Commission of Jurists that the
Chinese Government was deliberately
attempting to destroy the Tibetan nation
and the Buddhist religion; the state-
ment by the Protestant Rev. Leland
Wang that 200 of 206 churches in one
Chinese province had been closed ; and
the startling statistics of the expulsions,
imprisonment and murder of R.C.
clerics and nuns, whether native-born or
emissaries of the Western imperialists.
Mr. Williams seems to have swallowed
what he was offered at one gulp.
New Deal for the North?
[From Canberra]
A new deal for the forgotten Northern
Territory seems on the way, following the
Commonwealth’s decision to appoint a
committee-of-inquiry to investigate the
possibility of closer-settlement in that
vast, lonely area.
The committee will be headed by Dr.
H. C. Foster, Professor of Agriculture
at the University of Melbourne.
Other members will be South Austra-
lian Parliamentarian C. R. Kelly, who is
also a practical farmer ; and one-time
director of the Bureau of Agricultural
Economics, Dr. D. B. Williams, now
0.-c. of the Agricultural Liaison Section
of C.5.1.R.0.
The committee will report to Terri-
tories Minister Hasluck on the prospects
of promoting agricultural settlement on
an economical basis in the Territory, and
major factors to be considered in shaping
an agricultural policy there.
The committee’s procedures will not be
formal evidence-taking in stuffy offices,
but contact with men in the field through-
out the Territory.
Members of the committee will visit
the Territory twice —once towards the
end of the present “dry,” and again in
the “wet,” next January.
Hasluck said that, 13 years after the
end of the war, people wishing to develop
the territory were getting impatient.
The appointment of the committee, on
Hasluck’s initiative, will be a step
towards preparing a case for submission
to Cabinet.
The committee will be up against it.
There are many difficulties. Not the
least of these are widespread doubts and
scepticism (which have a pretty firm
hold with those in the south) as to
whether anything should be done with
the Far North.
Beef Research
[From Canberra]
Dour Charlie Adermann, Minister for
Primary Industry, will have some terse
words to say to beef-producers when he
meets them shortly on the question of a
Beef Research Committee.
At the recent meeting of the Australian
Agricultural Council, Adermann let it
be known that it was bickering on the
part of these organisations over repre-
sentation on the proposed committee
which was delaying its establishment.
The Government is anxious to get the
plan under way, as it believes research
into the industry’s problems is the only
way to get it onto a sound footing in
times of tightening markets.
However, it is being frustrated at every
turn by the organisations’ inability to
agree among themselves, for their own
good, who should be on the committee.
Adermann left no doubts in the minds
of Agricultural Council members how
he felt on the subject.
He expressed his annoyance so forcibly
that the council agreed to leave the
matter in his hands, and authorised him
to approach the producer-organisations
and lay his cards on the table.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
FROM GAVIN CASEY
T owe thanks to everybody who contri-
buted to the success of the sale of
pictures for my benefit held in the Perth
Press Club on July 17.
The walls of the club bulged as about
400 people squeezed in, and when the
books and accounts are squared-off I’ll
be several hundred pounds better-off at
a time when otherwise I would have been
very broke indeed.
Unfortunately on this evening, when
most of my local friends lapped-up lager
and bid for the pictures, all I could do
was stay in my bed and chew Red Cross
licorice - allsorts. However, my mate
Doug Baker, in the next bed, and I
committed the only sin we are allowed
these days, and smoked too much.
The whole generous effort makes it
seem very worth while to have spent
most of a lifetime writing, and thus
mixing much with big-hearted colleagues
of the drawing-board and the typewriter.
Gavin Casey,
Ward 17, Repat. General Hospital,
Hollywood, W.A.
“And get that silly smirk off your face, or I'll make YOU eat it!"
“Joseph”: Spring-heel Jack, a famous
burglar who used to leap over back fences
with springs on his boots, would appre-
ciate a mattress advertised in Melbourne
—with 837 springs!
* * *
“Joanne”: Watched a bulky woman in
a rag-shop trying to buy a ready-made
frock. She wasn’t sure of her hip-size,
so the girl assistant obliged with a piece
of string ; a long piece, too. The circum-
navigation over, the customer apparently
got the shock of her life at the tell-tale
result. “Goodness!” she said. “Imagine
what I’d look like if someone flattened
me out! ’
*** * *
“Briars”: A friend passed-on to me
some outdated Bulletins obviously
without the knowledge of his teenage.
daughters. The girls had “personalised”
the joke-blocks and illustrations by pen-
cilling-in names and remarks relating to
the older generation of their family
friends, , including my husband and
myself. It was an illuminating and some-
what shattering experience to see myself
as others see me, but I must be truthful—
the comments were devastatingly right
and very funny—especially my husband’s
collection.
“Nor”: Music while you wait. Among
new releases in a music-shop, one disk
of sentimental numbers displayed on its
shining jacket a pair of delicate hands
holding white knitting. The title? “Music
for Expectant Mothers.”
*s•
“Alma”: Re off-rhyme: I have just
(inadvertently) heard a popular song, the
repetitive lyric being based on the
romantic sentiment: “Move over, baby,
your tail’s in the gravy.” Perhaps Mr.
Stewart, Mr. Macartney and Mr. Row-
botham would care to comment?
“Tabba”: The library of the late W. A.
Amiet to which I referred (B. 1/ 7/ ’59)
contained more than two-and-a-quarter
tons of books. Apart from the books
given to friends and institutions in
Mackay (Q.), carriers packed 2 tons
4 cwt. for the journey to Brisbane.
. „
“Eureka”: Have been taking tablets
prescribed by a doctor at a cost of 14s.
for 50. Last visit the doctor suggested
that 100 would be cheaper. Yes, the
chemist gave them to me for 265., thus
saving me 2s. So the sick person who
can afford only small quantities has to
pay more than the man who can buy
in larger lots. It’s bringing essential drugs
down to the level of vegetables, where
you pay Is. a lb. or 31b. for 2s. 6d.
HANDS ACROSS THE SEA
or,
A Short Paper of Verses from a Far Countree,
Tender and Admonitory,
addressed to
The Author’s Homeland.
Said the great big blousy White Lady
To the innocent Maiden in Curls,
Lemme give yeu a lil bit advice, Baby,
Ef yeu wanna be one of the Girls.
Yeu air gettun a great big girlie now,
Time yeu wuz makun a show.
Hev to put yeur bes’ foot foward,
Sweedie-Pie,
Er yeu won' never be in the dough.
It's a shame yeu air still all thet backward,
Land sakes ! What a figyure, teu !
Suure, yeu gat plenny nice contours
But hook yeurself up, Honey, deu !
A Lady which takes herself serious
An’ means to become a success
Has gadda use ways an means, Dearie,
So some things look more an’ some less.
Yeu suurely could use a noo lipstick,
Thet shading kem outa the Ark ;
An’, Honey, dump rachel for peach-
blow —
Yeur compact’s two-three tones teu dark.
No, Sweedie, yeu gadda look nice, Dear,
Er else won’ no customers come.
Gosh darn it, yeu gadda smile sweet,
Pet tie,
Believe me, I bin around some.
Go buy yeu a pack Juicy Fruit, Dear,
Also it makes yeur breath nice.
A Lady which ain’ gat no charm, Dear,
Cain’t growl ef she don’ git her price.
Yeu jes gadda be perfectly genuwine,
Delightful to know underneath.
Yeu know, Dear, any Lady which wears
falsies
May as well wear a funeral wreath.
So hold up yeur chin, now, my Pretty,
An’ don’ let no bum beat ya down.
Ef yeu do as I say an’ be careful,
Yen’ll end up the Queen of the Town,
Ridun round in yeur Lincoln or Cadillac
So gracious in dimons an’ pearls,
Said The lovely peroxide-blonde Lady
In mink, to the Maiden in Curls.
S.A.
BRIAN ELLIOTT.


It’s been school - exam, time, and
one of my nephews has achieved
the possible in dictation: 50 out of 50.
The only unfortunate aspect of his
accomplishment was that the 50 were
mistakes. I w 7 ondered how his father
would take the rather startling tidings,
but after the shock had worn off, Senior
seemed to see the funny side of it, and
he has certainly enhanced his reputa-
tion as a humorist by pointing to his
offspring’s achievement on appropriate
occasions. Yet when, last year, the kid
confessed to 40 mistakes, he received a
larruping from his disgusted parent. The
moral seems to be, if you can’t be
brilliant, be a brilliant failure. —
“Mackville.”
❖ ❖
“Maitri”: She was entertaining at a
small dinner-party some characters who
had the reputation of being gourmets.
All exclaimed about the delicious gravy
she’d served with the Wiener-schnitzel,
and tried to guess what gave it its subtle
flavor; one finally ran it to earth:
“Coffee! ” he exclaimed ecstatically.
“What a stroke of genius for you to
have thought of it!” The hostess knew'
it wasn’t genius (though she wasn’t
letting-on); everything had gone wrong
with her preparations, so, just before the
meal, she’d made some strong black
coffee to buck herself up. After she’d
poured out a cupful, there was a little
left in the saucepan: in her flurry, by
mistake, she poured it into the gravy.
•£« ♦♦♦
“Eldaob”: Feminine logic in the
fruitshop: Said the fussy one, buying
bananas, “I don’t want the rotten ones
from the back, I want them from the
front.” Continuing to load the bag from
the back of the pile, and with a glitter
in her eye, our long-suffering lass re-
plied: “Madam, that’s just what you are
getting.”
* * *
“Sunray”: Well past his first youth,
he'd just tumbled down a flight of ten
concrete steps and his companions feared
for his life. But after they picked him
up and made sure his old bones were
still attached to one another, they wanted
to put him in a taxi and send him home.
Shaken in body, he was yet firm in re-
solve. “Go in one of those suicide
machines? I’ll see you in hell first. I’m
going by tram.” He did, too.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Tappy”: A retired nursing - sister
living in Adelaide visited patients and
friends from July 13 to July 17: Monday,
sick friend, 80 yrs ; Tuesday, sick friend,
72 yrs ; Wednesday, friends, 80 yrs, and
90 yrs; Thursday, three sick friends,
87 yrs, 92 yrs, and 80 yrs ; Friday, two
sick friends, 92 yrs, and 72 yrs. Total,
745 yrs.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Mugga Way”': Those unimaginative
civil servants or politicians who decided
to call the new and attractive Bass Strait
car-ferry the Princess of Tasmania have
reaped their just reward. The vessel has
become known in Newcastle as the “Pot,”
“Tell the pilot to step on it —I have a date in New) York on Wednesday.”
and will probably be called that by
most of its future users. Duchess of
Tasmania would surely have been more
apt for a boat going to the Speck.
* * *
“Sunray”: Latest on the dental front
is the invention of a retired dentist and
consists of a model train in the rod from
which the drill swings. When the drill
is in operation the w'heels of the train
go round. It is supposed to keep childish
patients happily unaware of what is going
on in their mouths that’s how little
dentists understand children.
♦> ♦>
“Croid”: Remember the “International
Rag”? Dug-up the music recently and
was amused at the phrase:
Dukes and Lords and Russian Tsars,
Men who own their motor-cars.
Nowadays the old chap who lives in a
humpy generally owns a bomb of some
kind, though I doubt if all the Dukes
and Lords could afford one, and the last
Russian Tsar, no lover of bombs, got
the bullet.
* ❖ *
“Tabba”: I bought five-bobs’-worth of
fish. As she tossed the pieces onto a
paper the sharp-eyed assistant spotted a
chip sticking to the batter, rolled the
offending piece of fish over, recovered
the chip and threw it back into the fat.
That was one that didn't get away!
❖ ♦>
“Amcee”: The woman who preferred
stolen cuttings (B. 8/7/’59) reminds me
of an acquaintance who always wore
woollen gloves when visiting the Botanical
Gardens. Notices threatening prosecution
for taking flowers or plants didn’t worry
her; she merely handled the plants,
admiring them, and usually managed to
collect a few seeds. Green-gloves, or
green-fingers . . many a rare plant
graced her garden.
❖ * *
“Fragmos”: During an interview with
a client I was startled by a muffled,
rumbling sound oddly emanating from
him. “Are you mechanical?” I queried.
“Oh,” he explained, rising to leave, “that’s
the alarm-clock. My parking-meter’s
up.” So out he went to move his car.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Murray Swagman”: A couple of
years ago I wrote a par. on the ages of
War I Diggers, mentioning a chap born
November 6, 1900. No one challenged
this record, but last week 1 met a War
I Digger born November 12, 1900 —so
my record is now advanced six days.
* ❖ *l*
“Bo”: That the self-imposition of
torture is not the exclusive prerogative
of the wild and woolly savage can be
attested by anyone who has ever had a
tooth-abscess and the compelling urge
to keep biting on it. But this peculiarity
which makes civilised man one with his
primitive brother surely has its most
refined expression in the irresistible com-
pulsion to impose on himself the maxi-
mum agony of the mental kind, which
can be so much worse than the mere
physical sort. After all, what TV-viewer,
fascinated by the utter corniness of the
words and a “tune” which seems to have
been dashed-off by a milliner’s laborer,
hasn’t found himself, while pulling-up
weeds or polishing the car, giving voice


to “Halt that halitosis, use Glugg’s tooth-
paste, it’s great!” which he has had
unharmoniously howled at him week
after week by a gaggle of females? Or —
again, by a multiplicity of cackling hens,
a form of torture that Torquemada
inexplicably overlooked—“ Your skin will
get that gorgeous look, if you feed it
each night with Spoopju Food!” The
fear has now gripped me that this un-
conscious addiction to asininity might,
by subtle means, become so deep-seated
that I may begin collecting ’em as records
and dice my symphonies and sonatas.
A A A
. “Harbel”: It is noticeable that the
N.S.W. Railways are dropping the
“Ladies” and “Gentlemen” signs, replac-
ing them with “Men” and Women. ’
Whether the change comes from a drive
to save unnecessary lettering, or whether
there is Government pressure to make life
difficult for Liberals has not been divulged.
Opinions as to correct designations vary
considerably. One drive-in theatre
displays: “Romeo” and “Juliet” ; another
prefers the more down-to-earth “Guys”
and “Dolls.” A camping-area on the
South Coast flaunts “ ’lm” and “ ’Er.”
But the Paris Theatre in Sydney leaves
nothing to chance. On one of its polished
doors is lettered: ‘‘Gentlemen, Messieurs,
Signori, Herren.” A similar door on the
opposite side announces: “Ladies,
Mesdames, Signore, Damen.” Nobody
seems to have given a thought to
“Bodgies” and “Widgies.” No wonder the
beat-generation rebels ; they are, as the
song says, on the outside, looking in.
❖ ❖ *
“An Chuidh”: Since publishing a par.
here on the origin of lower-case “ff” for
certain surnames I’ve discovered that in
the 15th century it was not the practice
in Scotland to use capitals for any sur-
name or for names of places, at least in
the Acts of the Scottish Parliament. But
Christian-names were always graced with
a capital. Words to be emphasised were
capitalised, but numbers of words were
also spelt with capitals for no obvious
reason.
♦> *
“Mitron”: In a Brisbane tram dis-
playing a Health Education Council
poster depicting, against a sombre black
background, a lighted cigarette, a skull
and the caption “Give it up,” fellow-
passenger sat down, glanced at the poster
and said to us, “Better read that notice,
fellows.” Then he lit a cigarette and
immediately went into a coughing spasm
which lasted several stops. As he
alighted, he gasped to us “Winter cough,
Purely a coincidence, that notice.”
v
“Wusslean”: Playing with his seven-
year-old sister, my teenage lad said:
“I’ll be the grocer-boy, coming to the
door with the groceries, and you be his
girl-friend, eh?” “All right,” replied
Miss Seven, eagerly. Grocer - boy
knocked ; Miss Seven opened the door,
and putting on her sweetest expression,
cooed: “Oh, hullo, Bob!” Then lower-
ing her voice, she added: “Be careful
what you say—my father’s in the next
room! ”
A A
“Doynest”: After the wedding the
bride’s father gloomily perused his bank-
statement and the pile of still-unsettled
accounts and reflected upon social com-
pulsions upon parents to spend more than
they can afford. Then, summoning his
two remaining daughters, he announced:
“Girls, I'll give you each two-hundred
pounds if you elope before 1 reach
retiring-age!” If they don't take him up
on it, he says, there’s nothing for him
but the old-age pension.
* ❖ *
“Sunray”: Walking down the corridor
in a city building, a whiff from the base-
ment reduced me to a roly - poly kid in
bare feet coming into the kitchen with
a yearning stomach and suggesting that
something should be done about it. There
was a stock answer: “There’s bread and
dripping if you’re hungry.” I used to
like the black bits that had escaped from
the gravy into the dripping-tin ; they gave
that slice an extra oomph.
♦Jt
“Curie”: In the course of his work
my husband has collected a number of
beautiful specimens of gold-bearing ore.
One evening he brought them home to
show the children. We admired the per-
fect crystals of gold clustered on one
piece, the veins and leaves of gold on
another, and the speckles of gold cover-
ing the surface of another. He picked-
up one and said, “There must be eight-
pounds’ worth of gold in this.” “Where
do you keep them ; locked in a cup-
board?” I asked. “Whatever for?” he
said, amazed ; “I use them for paper-
weights.”
+j* _
“Ailsey”: Newcastle (N.S.W.) branch
of Gideons International has placed
£2OOO-worth of Bibles and New Testa-
ments in district hotels, motels and
hospitals. According to the superinten-
dent of Newcastle City Mission (Mr. J.
McCallum), there has been a “good
response” to the putting of the Word in
pubs: licensees consider that their houses
may be rated better - class when Bibles
are provided.
DIRECT-CURRENT
“A Swedish scientist claims that sufficient
electricity can be generated by a kiss to be
measurable.”
When I, a callow lad,
Tried-out the cooing-dove
Stuff, I found that l was burdened
by timidity.
1 was just an undergrad
In the Faculty of Love.
That try wgs punctuated by stupidity.
Those labial pecks l took
Were, I know now, too restrained ;
They also had a deal too much of
haste in ’em.
The sport I soon forsook,
For all the girls complained
My soulless, tepid kisses had no
taste in ’em.
Nearer manhood, I again
Sought the soft art to espouse,
But my technique still lacked re-
quisite barbarity.
All my efforts were in vain,
Doing no more than arouse
A cool contempt, admixed with
jocularity.
Was my generator gone ?
Battery buckled-up and bent ?
In black despair I thought of taking
medicine —
Then two tomes I came upon,
An event co-incident:
One dealt with Don Juan, the other,
Edison !
Soon a fine spark I achieved ;
Stepping-up the voltage was
A hurdle I flew over with simplicity.
Faces lit-up when / cleaved
To hot lips. A Wizard of A us.,
I overdid that amour-electricity.
It happened thus-wise, mate:
I had taken-out a miss,
And in terms of watts and volts and
ohms computed her ;
Well, we all miscalculate.
When l did switch-on that kiss —
It’s jonick I damn near electro-
cuted her !
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


“EVERYBODY’S going the free milk
at school now,” announced young
daughter. “Why’s that?” I asked. “Well,
you see, we take it in turns to buy a
flavored straw from the tuck-shop and
six of us share it. It’s beaut.” Hygienic
dairies, pasteurised milk, then —a com-
munity straw. —“Beam.”
►I-* *>
“F.G.”: Remember well a Norman
Lindsay sketch in The Bulletin depict-
ing Dave watching through the window
the city-girl visitor dressing, having just
put on a bra., and Dave saying “ ’Struth,
she’s wearing winkers!” In a Brisbane
paper lately was a large ad. in which the
make of bras, was “Hidden Treasure.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Roomy”: She examined the sale-
priced sweaters, and then turned away
frowning ; the assistant rushed forward
and enlarged on the super quality of,
and heavy reduction on . . . The customer
shrugged: “I want something to wear
for gardening—those are cheap enough,
but they look too good. If you haven’t
what I want, I’ll go elsewhere!”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Zake”: Time was when Sydney’s
underground - train travellers had the
option, at any time of the day or night,
to emerge from Town Hall Station at
what exit was most convenient for their
ultimate destination. But no longer!
Nowadays the unsuspecting passenger—-
especially the visitor from other parts—
who innocently gets on the rear of a
train coming from Central and wishes
to go out the southern end, is forced to
trip along, on the many occasions when
the central barrier is closed, to the far
barrier at the northern end and then
hike down south, by which time he’ll
have padded it the best part of a quarter-
mile. And what is the hiatus which pre-
cludes his rushing up the forbidden steps?
Not, of course, one of those white ropes ;
that would be too easily seen. No, a
drab-colored chain which those with
unhawk-like eyes have to get close to
before it becomes apparent. And, of
course, the chain beats a rope hands-
down as choice for the barrier, it being
the perfect symbol.
*>
“H.A.L.”: Smith is an engineer. Jones,
his next-door neighbor, has a garage with
a sliding-door that has never been lubri-
cated. Every time that door is opened
or shut, it makes a noise like a catfight
and a mob of goats galloping across a
dump of old tins. “Easy to see that
fellow used to be a cocky farmer,” Smith
used to growl. “Never does any repairs
or oils a bearing!” Until a morning
when Smith went out to his garage and
pressed the button, and his well-lubri-
cated, counter-weighted door rose
silently; but instead of his 20ft.
American car with cocked tailfins, fog-
lamps, air-conditioning and what not,
he beheld only a large, empty space. The
police recovered his car much the worse
for wear. “But it was dead easy to
pinch,” Jones pointed out. “Nobody
“Bon voyage , Abdul!"
heard it go.” He heaved back the door
of his own garage, raising a screech of
unoiled rollers and a rattle of loose
iron: “If 1 heard that noise in the night
I’d be out with a shotgun.”
<s*
“A.H.G.”: As to dear meat (B. 8 /7/’59),
in the Moreton Bay Courier of 1859
appeared this polite advertisement:
J. Darragh, butcher, begs to acquaint
the inhabitants of Bulimba and Kangaroo
Point he intends supplying beef wholesale,
from one-quarter to a carcass, delivered
within four miles at twopence per pound.
♦J* ❖ ❖
“Matilda”: City-bound, she passed my
friend’s service-station every morning.
One day she stopped, distressed ; she
had forgotten to check the tyres of her
car; she always pumped them herself
and she thought they might need some
air. Friend said that he or his assistant
would always do that little job for her
there was no need for her to do it. She
thanked him profusely, and thereafter
came every weekday for months, until
she moved from the district. Friend
thought she didn’t like his brand of
petrol—never once did she buy a gallon.
♦J4
“Sunray”: We were giving the kitchen
the annual shock-treatment, but that
didn’t stop her sitting on a stool amid
the debris and giving us the latest chapter
of her autobiography. She must have
complete attention when telling a tale,
so the work was frequently interrupted.
She broke-off to watch me cleaning-out
the holes in the gas-jets of the griller and
said, “Oh, goodness. You can do that,
can you? Mine wasn’t working, so I
threw it out. And I haven’t had toast
for months and months.” This last was
said so wistfully, I asked why. “Well,”
she said, “the griller wasn’t working.
Wouldn’t grill anything in a hundred
years. And I just had to have a grilled
chop. Had to. Had to. And I couldn’t
take it in next-door and say, ‘Please,
would you grill me a chop?’ now, could
I? So I did it in the toaster and it was
lovely, but the toaster wouldn’t work
any more after that. The fat must have
got into its insides. Anyway, it was in a
mess, and I couldn’t take it up to the
man all over fat and grease and ask him
to fix it; now, could I? So I threw that
out, too.” She laughed, as we shrieked
with mirth ; then went on, “Well, you can
laugh. But it was a beeootiful chop.
Never had one like it. But it did spoil
the toaster.”
BLACK MAGIC
Her loveliness
Confounds me. Hell!
To my distress,
She casts a spell.
Her figure ? Cripes !
It’s barely lawful!
And when she types,
Her spelling’s awful!
N.S.W.
P. O. M. C.


POLITICAL POINTS
Heard the story of the two takeover
companies which made takeover bids to
each others’ shareholders, then each
decided that the other’s offer was too
good to turn-down, so they both accepted,
and now they’re trying to decide who’s
up for what and who pays?
• •
Prefabricated tunnels for Sydney
Harbor, first suggested by engineer R. D.
Carter, whose proposals have been con-
sistently ignored by Cahill and his
Ministers, will be under discussion on
Friday when councillors from munici-
palities and shires north of the Harbor
meet at North Sydney Town Hall. The
latest proposal, put forward by C. L.
McMahon, is for a tunnel from Bradley’s
Head to Clark Island and low-level
bridges or viaducts from there to
Elizabeth Bay and Darling Point (this
is similar to the Carter Plan); also a
tunnel under Middle Harbor between
Grotto Point and Cobbler’s Beach near
Middle Head (to relieve the pressure on
the Spit Bridge).
The main difficulty about such pro-
posals is not in getting the councils in-
terested, but in getting the N.S.W.
Government to listen.
• •
Nasser, at the third anniversary cele-
brations of the seizure of the Suez Canal,
promised the Israelites that if they chal-
lenged him he would “exterminate” them
—this “crime established by treachery
and imperialism.” On his past record
he presumably intends to suffocate them
with the dust-cloud produced by the
hurried retreat of his forces. He boasts
that “we defeated Britain, France and
Israel three years ago... .we have never
been defeated with arms.” Which is
strictly true —no hostile army has ever
been able to catch up to his field-
marshals.
• •
Trade Minister McEwen announced on
Friday an increase of £5O million (to
£B5O million) in the import-licensing
ceiling, simultaneously with the lifting of
licensing discrimination on most dollar-
impo'rts.
Category A quotas will be increased
in most cases by 10 per cent, and
category B quotas by 20 per cent. In
making the announcement, McEwen said
that 60 items, worth £5O million a year,
would be freed from licensing, and almost
£2OO-niillion-worth of goods could be
imported without a licence. Licences for
a further £ 100-million-worth of goods,
mainly materials and equipment for the
motor-vehicle and other industries, would
be virtually issued freely.
This relaxation of controls had been
generally expected. It was made possible
by an improvement in the export posi-
tion beyond what had been anticipated
and the continued inflow of overseas
capital. Overseas reserves dropped by
only £lO million during the year, com-
pared with £4l million in the previous
year, and higher exports, both of primary
and secondary products, are anticipated
for 1959-60.
• •
Events have forced Indian Prime
Minister Nehru to intervene in the affairs
of the Communist-governed State of
Kerala, where riots and bloodshed have
arisen out of popular opposition to Red
rule. On Friday President Prasad issued
a proclamation taking-over control of
the State. Federal troops had already
been sent into Kerala.
• •
New South Wales Chief Secretary Gus
Kelly is talking of reducing the number
of charity lotteries —he and the law call
them “art-unions” —as a result of the
difficulty found nv filling the ones with
mammoth prizes pubs, sheep-stations
and the like. Encouraged by the bad
example of the State Lottery these giant
gambles have got out of hand. The
excuse given for Government inaction is
that existing legislation gives Gus only
limited power to refuse applications for
permits. If that is so the legislation
could have and should have been
amended long ago.
Meanwhile, the drawing of the Air
Force Association art-union (first .prize,
the Seabreeze Hotel at Tom Ugly’s
Point) has been twice postponed and the
promoters of the Christian Brothers’ art-
union (first prize, Pacific Hotel, Manly)
are in a spot of bother because proceeds
were less than had been anticipated. The
winner of the Pacific, by the way, on
finding out that the Pacific was a tied-
house, appealed to the court to break the
tie, but without success.
• •
Shell Oil managing-director Lewis
Luxton, in Queensland on a periodical
look-see, raised Queenslanders’ hopes
when he said the State was bound to get
an oil-refinery, ultimately. But he
refused to be tied-down to any specific
period of time—“could be three years;
might be twenty.”
“Will you walk a little faster?” said a whiting to a snail,
“There’s a porpoise close behind us, and he’s treading on my tail.”


There was a touch of musical comedy
about the Khrushchev-Nixon exchanges
in Moscow. This little piece, for example,
when tempers cooled-down after the
blow-up:— K. “Were you offended?”
N. “Never!” could have come from the
Professor Higgins - Colonel Pickering
interlude in “My Fair Lady.”
• •
Within 24 hours of the announcement
of a new type of radar, capable of distin-
guishing between the male and female
sexes at a considerable distance, the radar-
equipped American Hunter ungallantly
struck the world’s biggest female —the
Cunarder Queen Elizabeth just out-
side New York Harbor.
•• * >
Since Victorian Deputy Premier Rylah
forecast at the Premiers’ Conference that
a reduction in the tax on cinema seats
would have to be made “to keep this
field of taxation alive,” more theatres
have closed. When the Federal Govern-
ment quit this tax the Cain Labor
Government reimposed it, and Labor
spokesmen have belatedly been asking
Bolte to reduce it. The Government’s
half-promises will no doubt be fulfilled
in the State Budget if there are any
cinemas left to benefit from it.
• m
America’s first atomic - powered
merchant-ship has been launched by
Mrs. Eisenhower. A 22,000-tonner, cost-
ing £22 million, the Savannah will not
be ready for service until 1*961. The
U.S. Navy has six nuclear-powered sub-
marines in commission and 27 under
construction or authorised ; other units
of Uncle Sam’s nuclear fleet now being
built are an aircraft-carrier, a frigate and
a cruiser which was launched a fortnight
ago.
• •
When it was announced the small
troupe of Bolshoi Ballet dancers imported
by the Elizabethan Theatre Trust would
perform in Melbourne to the piano
played by i their own musician, the
Musicians’ Union threatened fortissimo
to declare the company black. The trust
announced pianissimo that Australian
musicians would be engaged, and a
pas de deux between the Russian piano
and the Australian strings was arranged,
an unusual harmony.
• •
E. A. Willis, M.L.A. for Earlwood,
is the new Deputy Leader of the N.S.W.
Parliamentary Liberal party; he won the
long-drawn-out ballot by 16 votes to 13,
Harold Jackson (Gosford) being the
runner-up after five other candidates had
been eliminated. When Willis won Earl-
wood 11 years ago he was 28, the baby
of the Assembly, and on several occasions
he has been put in the corner by Speaker
Lamb being a bad boy in the House.
He holds a B.A. degree, served five years
in the army in World War II and was
an officer of the Cumberland County
Council before he entered Parliment. As
a result of his election Willis will also
be Deputy Leader of the Opposition.
Kassem must wish sometimes that he
had left the Government of Iraq to the
defunct Nuri Pasha, torn to bits by
his mobs. Murder, riots and confusion
are the order of the day throughout the
Iraqi oilfields. Iraq is under a military
governorship, and an arms-ban has been
imposed.
• •
Judge Cussen has been complaining
in Melbourne that a young offender was
released from Pentridge prison the day
before he was due to come up for sen-
tence ; but the youth realised something
was wrong and gave himself up again.
Not only the old-timers at Pentridge are
incorrigible ; scarcely a month goes by
without news of someone breaking in
or out. Jealous Hobartians make claims
for their old jail because prisoners can
or could slip through a hole in a wall.
At Pentridge they go out through the
big entrance gates, with an official slap
on the back.
• •
“Federal Office Speed-up” said a head-
ing in the S.M. “Herald.” Anyone who
assumed that this presaged an efficiency-
drive in the Commonwealth public ser-
vice was mistaken. It was just an
announcement that the new office-block
to be built in Phillip Street, Sydney, for
the Commonwealth Government would
be completed in two years instead of
two-and-a-half as originally thought.
• •
Widespread issuance of revaluation-
notices by the N.S.W. Valuer-General
raises the question whether the Sydney
Water Board will continue its practice of
using the higher valuations as an excuse
to grab more revenue. Municipal coun-
cils adjust their rating so that higher
valuations of land don’t mean propor-
tionately higher municipal rates. The
Water Board leaves its rate in the £
unchanged and applies it to the V.-G.’s
new rental-values. There’s no logical
justification for this; the board’s
expenses don’t automatically increase
with increased valuations, and there is
no reason why its revenue should.
• •
Concession-fares for N. S. Wales school-
children will be extended to the 15-18
age-group from August 20, the start of
the school holidays. At present these
children are carried to and from school
at concession-rates, but must pay full
adult fare at all other times. The anomaly
that pupils travelling to and from school
are carried free on trains but must pay
on Government trams and buses still
remains.
« •
“A.U.A.”: More than-30 years ago
the chairman of directors of the Bank
of New Zealand said:
That the system of hire-purchase is
pernicious needs no argument. It seriously
affects legitimate business, it is costly to
the extreme to the purchaser, and it tends
to breed a habit of reckless extravagance.
There are, of course, exceptional occasions
when the system may be of advantage but,
generally speaking, it is a dangerous prac-
tice for buyer and seller alike. Any
serious financial setback would have a
serious effect on those whose trade is largely
made up of selling goods on the time-
payment system.
What would that banker’s reaction be
today on learning that Australian h.-p.
debts rose by £3,537,000 during April to
a record £347,501,000?
• •
Warringah Shire Council is doing-away
with parking - fees at beaches under its
control —a long stretch of surfing-beaches
running from Freshwater, just north of
Manly, to Palm Beach. At 3s. a day,
with cheaper rates for season tickets, the
impost has been bringing-in £lB,OOO a
year, at a cost of £7OOO. It will be dis-
continued at the end of the year.
Other Sydney beaches which make a
similar levy will now have to decide
whether they’ll follow the Warringah
example. The argument used to justify
the charge is that the money is needed
for the upkeep of the beaches and that
it isn’t fair that this should be borne
entirely by local ratepayers while visitors
from other suburbs share the benefit.
This argument ignores the extent to
which seaside business - people rely on
the spending-power of visitors. Further,
motorists are entitled to ask why they
should be levied for beach-upkeep while
visitors who come by public transport
aren’t.
• •
Victorian B.M.A. is very serious in
its campaign to get compulsory blood-
tests of suspected drunken car-drivers,
and Dr. C. H. Dickson, the secretary,
made a Meet-the-Press interview a
forum for their views, despite some sharp
questioning, and also came to light with
the news that a Drunkometer is being
tested in Melbourne to determine the
alcohol-level in the bloodstream by
breath-analysis.
The B.M.A.’s interest in blood-tests
isn’t academic. Since 1940, 9000 have
been killed and 200,000 injured in Vic-
torian car-accidents, which have become
the major killer in the under-40 age-
group. Dickson implied drink was the
main cause of these; the National
Road Safety Council says speed is un-
doubtedly the first cause.
• •
“Stromlo”: Although settlement of
world differences seems as far away as
ever, there are optimists at U.N. who
believe mankind will reach amicable
agreement on the peaceful uses of outer
space. A working-group on the subject
recently expressed the view that the
International Geophysical Year might
have initiated recognition or establish-
ment of a generally accepted rule that
outer space is freely available for peaceful
exploration and use by all on equal con-
ditions in accordance with existing or
future international laws or agreements.
The group, however, didn’t think it would
be practicable or desirable to attempt at
present a codification of “space law.”
It recommended a watch-and-wait policy
to ensure timely and effective action as
and when required.


Personal
ITEMS
From Sudeb Kumar Mookherjee, 1227
Gemal Bigha, Church Road, Gaya, Bihar,-
India: May I express my profound grief
at the passing of a great Australian Test
Cricketer Captain, Herbie “Lucky” Col-
lins, whose excellence in cricket game had
been enrolled on the pages of history
of games. He was not only familiar
among the Australian countrymen, rather
among all the different nationalities of
the world. We have really lost a jewel
from the ornaments of cricket game. I
pray for the peace of his soul.
• •
Hugh Devine’s was at least one of
the best-known names in surgery to the
populace for a couple of decades in pre-
war Melbourne, and in the same period
one of the best-respected in international
clinics. His operating skill was reckoned
close to g6nius ; he invented many sur-
gical instruments, some of which are
still in use throughout Australia ; and he
was a wonderful teacher.
He was 81 when he died, and up to
his last illness had been a sprightly figure
at Flinders, the Victorian coastal resort.
He made his own way, working in a
chemist’s shop to save the money for
his course, travelling to Europe for ex-
perience, and working under eminent
surgeons, chiefly in Vienna.
Sir Hugh was knighted in 1936 for his
services ; he was one of the founders
of the Australasian College of Surgeons
and president for many years, and his
international fame contributed greatly to
the prestige of St. Vincent’s clinical
school, which he had nurtured for so
long. More than 500 representative
Victorians attended the Requiem Mass at
St. Patrick’s Cathedral.
• •
“P.J.”: The late Sir Hugh Devine
was ambidextrous, which no doubt
helped in his great skill in surgery.
His enthusiasm was such that he
often had students at his home to teach
them ; he used to say that drugs often
caused late diagnosis and their constant
use was of doubtful value. Some of his
patients were R.C. priests and brothers,
and the staff of St. Vincent's Hospital
formed a guard-of-honor for his cortege.
• •
J. E. Howard, who’s now State
manager of Shell Chemical Pty. (Aus-
tralia), in Perth, was educated at Perth
Junior Technical School and started
work in 1937 as a cadet-chemist in the
assay-office of Wiluna Gold Mines. In
1941 he enlisted in the R.A.A.F. and
served in the Pacific. After demob, he
did a rehabilitation-course in science at
the Westralian University, collecting his
B.Sc. in 1951. Going to England for
further experience he had four years
with the Morgan Crucible Co. at Batter-
sea. He joined Shell on his return to
Australia in 1955, and recently had three
months as acting-manager in Adelaide.
George (Harold George) Ensten, Aus-
tralian general-manager of the E., S. and
A. Bank, is the new chairman of the
Australian Bankers’ Association, which
comprises the leading executives of the
free-enterprise banks.
Dick Ovenden’s caricature herewith
could be misleading. They do not dis-
cuss common banking matters and the
effects of financial policies on the national
economy on Port Phillip Bay, and
BANKER
Ovenden simply states that he also is
one of Melbourne’s most industrious
fishermen.
After Scotch College, Ensten joined the
bank at 90 Bourke Street, in 1920, and
after a series of appointments in adminis-
trative posts was made g.-m. of the bank
in Australia in 1955. He has had a num-
ber of overseas trips in recent years and
accompanied the recefit Commonwealth
Trade Mission to the U.S. west coast.
• •
“Keima”: Newly appointed Professor
of Anatomy at Queensland University,
55-year-old Professor Michael Hickey
obtained his M.A. at the University in
1933. At first a teacher, in 1936 he
enrolled as a medical student and in
1941 graduated Bachelor of Medicine and
Bachelor of Surgery ; the following year
he was appointed anatomy lecturer at
the University. He was a Rugby Union
Blue, and later coached the University
XV and has been a selector of the
Combined Universities Rugby teams.
• •
“A.U.A.”: Add to the record of fathers
and sons being both knighted the South
Australian Butlers and Duncans. Sir
Richard Butler and his son Sir Richard
Layton were State Parliamentarians and
both served as Premier. Sir John Duncan
was a member of the S.A. Legislative
Council, of which his son Sir Walter is
at present President.
• •
Eton and one or other of the older
Universities is generally considered a
very liberal education; Eton, Oxford
and Cambridge is surely very rare! But
that’s the schooling of the Rt. Rev.
C. K. Bardsley, Bis-hop of Coventry
(Eng.), who’s at present visiting Aus-
tralia. He’s dynamic and uncompromi-
sing, agrees with sport on Sundays,
provided no one makes any money from
it, and has done a lot to restore his
Cathedral, which the Germans bombed
in War 11.
• •
K. H. Youdale, who’s been appointed
general-manager of the. Sydney firm of
George G. Clarke, Ltd., and its sub-
sidiaries, did his war-time chore flying
with Lancasters and Mosquitoes of the
R.A.F. over Europe, collecting D.F.C.
Home again, he did a law-course at
Sydney University, and is a barrister,
admitted to the N.S.W. Bar in 1950.
• •
Veteran N.Z. journalist R. H. Billens,
who has passed on at 77, made his
Palmerston North daily, the “Times,” one
of the most progressive and outspoken
newspapers in the Dominion. He was
prosecuted and convicted for an editorial
attacking censorship - regulations during
War 11, but appealed, and a higher court
quashed the conviction.
• ■ •
“D.”: Father Barry Miller, who studied
philosophy at the Aquinas Academy,
Sydney, has just been awarded a doc-
torate of philosophy in Rome, with the
highest distinction —“Summa cum laude.”
He’s the second student of this Sydney
Academy to win first place in such an
exam, in recent years.
• •
The Kelvin Medal of the Royal
Society of Westralia has gone to Pro-
fessor E. J. Underwood, Dean of the
Faculty of Agriculture and Director of
the Institute of Agriculture at the
Westralian University. The award is
made once every four years for outstand-
ing research of benefit to the State-
Professor Underwood started research
when on the staff of the State Agricul-
tural Department and has worked on all
kinds of investigations. Lately he’s been
inquiring into problems of sheep-fertility.
He won the Australian Medal of Agri-
cultural Science in 1952 and, last October,


was elected a Fellow of the Australian
Institute of Agricultural Science.
• •
Captain Donald Macßae, harbor-
master at Newcastle (N.S.W.) from 1944
to 1951 and later at Port Jackson until
1956, was the exactly right pick for
trials-master of the Bass Strait vehicle-
ferry Princess of Tasmania. The new
craft was built at the State Dockyard
at Newcastle, and Mcßae put her
through her paces—l2-hour run, speed-
tests and the rest—out at sea thereabouts.
Macßae was the first master of the old
Newcastle pilot-steamer Birubi, which is
now being retired after 32 years’ service.
• o
Meet a backblocker who’s seen some
service and is possibly the only man
now alive who can give a first-hand
account of the Bushmen’s Elands River
siege after the relief of Mafeking during
the Boer War. Major F. V. (“Jerry”)
Weir, D. 5.0., was at that fight, when
440-odd Australian Bushmen and Rhodesians
were surrounded in an area of about four
acres by de la Rey’s Boer commando. When
the Imperial officer in command of the post —
sick at the time —wanted to surrender, Major
Tunbridge, of the Queenslanders, refused on
behalf of the Australians, took command, and
sent back to de la Rey the message: “As this
post is held by her Majesty’s troops, it cannot
be surrendered.” The post was held against
several thousand Boers —who had deployed con-
siderable artillery against the garrison’s single
71b.-muzzleloader—until relieved by Kitchener’s
column after a 14-day stand. The Australian
troops never gained any recognition for this
action, though Conan Doyle had something to
say about their bravery in the history he
eventually wrote, and Lord Roberts made a
special visit to them when they reached Pretoria.
Jerry Weir (pictured here by Gram) was
born in 1878 at Widgiewa station, near Urana
(N.S.W.). After schooling, he jackerooed for
four years in the back-country, and then worked
for the McCaugheys at Yarrabee and later at
North Yanco. When the Boer War broke out
he joined the Citizens’ Bushmen’s Contingent
—which was paid for entirely by the people
of N.S.W. and other States. By the time he
WEIR
reached Elands River he was a sergeant-major;
“ ,s duties throughout the siege included hoisting
and lowering the Union Jack each day above
the post! Shortly afterwards he was wounded
in a skirmish—shot through the face—but was
well-treated by the Boers, who left him a
gourd of water and reported his position to the
nearest British troops. Invalided to Netley
Hospital (Eng.), he thought he’d had enough
of hospitals, so left the troopship and managed
to get himself away to stay with a doctor he
knew in Northern Ireland “to be repaired
before going back to fight again.” He eventually
turned-up in front of a medical board to refute
the report that he had been killed in action,
and to be passed fit and given a commission in
the Ist Australian Commonwealth Horse. Back
in South Africa, he soldiered-on until the end
campaign, then returned to Australia
and, joining the Reserve, went back to the
bush.
Called-up in 1914, Weir received a wire from
Victoria Barracks, Sydney, telling him to “enrol
all suitable men for Light Horse —doctor’s certi-
ficate will frank on railway—form local
committee and report for duty in 10 days.”
He did, and went with the Light Horse to
Gallipoli, was wounded on August 7 at Lone
Pine, but got back to his regiment in time
for the blizzard and the evacuation. From
there he went to Palestine, was knocked off
his horse by a shell at Romani, spent a
summer in the Jordan Valley, and at the finish
returned to Australia and went back to the
Reserve and the bush.
He had a job in War 11, also, though not,
this time, overseas. There can be few men
who have had quite so much of the rough-and-
tumble of fighting and adventure as Jerry Weir
in fact, that last inability to go overseas
was probably the greatest disappointment of
his life.
• •
Having already been to Western
Australia and then S.A., Sir Sydney
Caine, director of the London School
of Economics and Political Science, has
now been doing the Melbourne part of
his lecture-tour of Australia. Next, Can-
berra and Sydney.
• •
“0.W.W.”: Expert at Esperanto, which
he’s studied for over 40 years, Bertram
Potts, of Wellington (N.Z.), lately came
home from lecturing in the universal
language all over Europe. For many
years he also wrote humorous short-
stories, most of which appeared in the
old “Aussie’’ magazine.
• •
Herewith, Charles Grosvenor Kelsey,
lately retired as investigation-officer to
the N.S.W. Government Insurance Office,
and before that War I Digger and printer.
On a visit to The Bulletin the other
day he recounted some of the variety
of things that can'happen to you in
peace and war —especially, maybe, if you
go looking for them.
Born at Forbes (N.S.W.) in 1898, he
started work in New Guinea as motor-
launch driver for Burns, Philp. On the
outbreak he came back to Sydney, en-
listed in the A.1.F., was posted to the
old 17th Battalion and went overseas. In
spite of some opposition from the Duke
of Connaught—who queried the age of
this juvenile member of his guard-of-
honor —Kelsey managed to convince the
authorities that he was old enough to go
to the front, and spent the next few
years in France, until in April, 1918,
a burst of German m.-g. fire sent him
back to Sydney, and to hospital until
January, 1921.
When he left hospital Kelsey was
apprenticed by Repat. to the Government
Printing Office and was there for over
18 years, until he transferred to the
Government Insurance Office. As investi-
gation-officer, his duty was to check
claims for workers’ compensation, third-
party motor-accident, common law, pub-
lic liability, fire and burglary—and, in
the course of these investigations, he
travelled all over the State by every
means of transport. His work took him
KELSEY
to the various big dams being constructed
(Burrinjuck, Warragamba and others), to
coalmines and other mining ventures, to
the Sydney Harbor Bridge while it was
being built, and to sea in the Captain
Cook —this last chore to investigate a
hernia-case on behalf of the Maritime
Services Board! Never a dull moment —
and perhaps that’s why Kelsey is so alert
now, with the knack of never failing to
see the humor of the situation if he’s the
victim or its pathos where others are
affected.
• •
Into the Silence:
At Stirling West (S.A.), at 73, Dr. H. Kenneth
Fry, former S.A. Rhodes Scholar and for 20
years Adelaide’s Medical Officer of Health.
In War I he served with the 3rd Field
Ambulance and afterwards as A.D.M.S. in
the sth Division, won the D.S.O. and was
“mentioned” four times.
In Adelaide, at 88, G. E. (“Teddy”) Yates,
Federal member for Adelaide, 1914-19, and
again from 1922 to 1931. He served as a
gunner in War I.
In Sydney, at 81, Joseph James Lynch,
former police-superintendent. As a detective
he played a leading part in breaking-up the
Darlinghurst (Sydney) razor-slashing gangs
about 30 years ago.
In Sydney, Dallas Hodgins, who, with his
partner Duncan Thompson, won fame in the
early 1920’s as North Sydney Rugby League
half-back. Also, he “repped” for N.S.W. at
both Rugby League and Rugby Union, was
a champion of Chatswood Bowling Club and
inter-State representative, and, as well, was a
champion of Roseville Golf Club.
In Melbourne, at 63, Reginald G. Little,
Inspector-General in Bankruptcy and formerly
Registrar in Bankruptcy for Victoria.
In Perth, at 88, James L. Hardwick, retired
printer and member of the Perth City Council
from 1924 to 1957; he then held the record
for unbroken service on the council.


ABORIGINALITIES
TQarker, straight from London and
diffident about accompanying me
to attend my niece’s wedding, fell in with
the idea after an assurance of lounge-
suits and no dancing.
At the reception, “God Save” evoked
his comment that it was a jolly nice loyal
touch, and that English folk were a bit
stuffy about singing it, and usually only
at posh do’s like the Honorable Fish-
mongers’ or the Lord Mayor’s did they
warble it.
The first “For They Are Jolly Good
Fellows,” sung at the bride and ’groom,
had him confess that never before had
he, sober or in sober company, partaken
of it. At the third repetition of the
routine interruption of the 'groom’s reply,
Barker lent the aid of his enthusiastic
but startlingly discordant bass.
When “Jolly Good Fellows” had in
turn been projected at the bridesmaids,
the bride’s mama and ultimately the
chairman, Barker said, “And I never
dreamt that that song had ever strayed
beyond the tavern or the regimental re-
union ! ”
As I took him back in my car he
silently reviewed the novelties of the
evening, and then ruminatively spoke:
“You know, that was a bit odd, toasting
her Majesty in beer but favoring the
newlyweds in champagne. I suppose the
caterer chappie was a bit slow opening
the wine.”
Arriving at his hotel, Barker shook my
hand warmly: “Terribly in your debt,
old man. I was distinctively sick at miss-
ing a corroboree at Darwin, but I
wouldn’t have missed tonight’s show for
worlds!” And up the steps he went,
happily crooning “Why Was He Born
So Beautiful?”
Sevenelms.
* * sfc $
“Weakstaple”: Six or seven years ago
The Bulletin published a shearing-
article of mine, one part of which was
devoted to comparing old-time condi-
tions in accommodation in sheds with
the new. In it I said, inter alia, that
“there were no lined two-bed rooms with
nice clean mattresses and covers to sleep
on.” The local paper, hard-up for re-
print-material, republished the article.
Its version read: “No lined, two-bed
rooms in those days with nice, clean
soft waitresses to sleep on;” etc. There
was no shortage of shearing-labor in our
district that year!
* * * *
“North”: No, A. G. Atkins was not
the last of the Cobb and Co. drivers.
That honor goes to John Riley, of Towns-
“Nice try, Nelson!"
ville, who is still going strong at 102.
The city’s oldest inhabitant, he recently
headed the “One Hundred Years of
Progress” procession.
* * * •
“Numbudgee”: A Cairns (Q.) hotel
used to employ a Chinese gardener for
the vegetable-patch and various fruit-
trees in the backyard. The proprietress
—a newcomer to the North —after observ-
ing that a couple of the pawpaws were
non-productive male trees, instructed
Gun Lee to dig them out. The old chap’s
face was a blank as he struggled for
words. Finally he exploded: “No more,
Missie —me no more diggum that one;
he allasame looster !”
* * * *
“Lillydale”: Tassie sassafras isn’t only
tops for clothes-pegs (B. 15/7/’59). In
1941 an English brushmaking company
established itself in Victoria, and got
itself into strife because its supply of
European beech was cut-off. This was
the classic timber for the firm’s nail-
brushes, an exacting utilisation with
multiple holes bored close together to
be filled with tufts of bristles based
with expanding metal rings that were
shot into place with an air-gun. The
wood not only required excellent boring
and non-fissile quality, but had to be void
of tannic- or acetic-acid, which, with the
bristle-rings, would create bristle-stain.
In some trepidation the brushmakers
switched to sassafras —and when the
beech again became available they
declined it.
* * * *
“Angus McScupper”: The “black
wood” stopper of “B. A. Ker’s” early-
days soft-drink bottles (B. 22/7/’59) was
made of the world’s hardest and heaviest
wood — Lignum vitae. Screwed quickly
into the neck of a bottle delinquently
primed with half-a-pound of carbide and
a half-pint of w'ater, it precluded a thrill-
ing juvenile scramble to safety and a
notable explosion.
* * * *
Those disguised and mounted outback
policemen who have been the subject
of an “Aboriginalities” symposium lately
are usually as shrewd as ? and sometimes
shrewder than, their quarry. One young
recruit who called at a settler’s cottage
in the Gippsland hills and inquired the
way to a neighbor’s place passed him-
self off as an insurance-agent. The house-
holder directed him “about a mile further
on,” and, after the cop had departed,
said to himself, “Insurance, hell! As if
/ don’t know a police-horse and police-
saddle when I see ’em!” Whereupon he
GIANTS CROSSING
The shrill wind whistles on its way,
“Caution : giants are crossing the road !
Look, in the distance, the faraway figures
Crossing, re-crossing in stately procession.
Closer, come closer to see the tall figures
Clad in long vestments crossing the red
road.
Closer, come closer, the tall giants
diminish ;
Quickly, come quickly before they
vanish”.
Deceitful wind, in dull red clock,
Your giants are guide-posts in mirage,
And even now with friendly sun,
You’re plotting further subterfuge.
Oh, whistle on your shrill red way,
I'd rather be alone,
And take your devils, giants and ghosts,
For I have brought my own.
QUEENSLAND.
E. BARLOW.




rolled-back the lino., lifted the floor-
board-trap and hoisted out several well-
filled bags. These he loaded onto his
old ute and set-off in the direction oppo-
site to that he’d directed the Law to take.
He was still grinning to himself when
he reached an isolated barn a couple of
miles away. As he opened the door a
now-familiar voice greeted him with,
“Come in, Bill, I’ve been expecting you.
Just tip out those bags of possum-skins
and we’ll start counting them! ” —•
“Murray Swagman.”
* * * *
“Spin”: Ore coming from the No. 8
and No. 9 levels of a Coolgardie mine,
rich enough to be classed as specimen-
grade, is said to be very like the quartz-
gold which Ford and Bayley, the dis-
coverers of the field, chipped out of a
surfaced reef with a tomahawk in 1892.
That’s fair enough the mine is the
Baylev’s Reward. But it’s promising
striking the same stuff at that depth!
* * 4= *
“Amdee”: The “bolt from the blue”
can come, as well as down from an azure
“I thought We Were loading aluminium , but it was LEAD!”
sky, up—out of the deep-blue sea ; and
it is best exemplified when a 501 b.
mackerel suddenly decides to emulate the
flying-fish. The upward surge will carry
it as high as 40ft. without apparent effort.
At the apex there is a distinct pause of a
few seconds before the streamlined flyer
completes the arc with a return to its
element that carries scarcely a sound or
splash.
* * * *
“J.J.A.”: “Some o’ these alecs at the
saleyards go mad at jacking prices up,”
the cow-cocky moaned. “Here I was trying
to buy some sucker-pigs to drink-up me
skim-milk for me, and they’re going
around the seven-quid mark. Seven quid!
And they were only three a few months
back when I didn’t want any. Why,” he
concluded bitterly, “they even knocked-
down the saleyard-cat for a fiver three
times!”
\T7hen we were kids in North Queens-
’ * land the taipan was not known as
such ; it was simply a big brown —a
species that was treated with consider-
ably less respect than it gets today, but
never with contempt. Dad, who was
troubled with rheumatism, laid down an
edict to his brood: “If you see a carpet,
kill it yourself. If you see a black, get
me. If it’s a brown, get your mother.”
The rule held good for years. Mum was
a crack shot with the pearifle. —“Banana.”
* * * ♦
“Kelms”: Some collective nouns of
fauna are not only apt (B. 15/7/’59),
they’re also attractive, and some have
interesting derivations. I like a “charm”
of finches and a “bevy” of quail—some-
how I associate the word bevy with
buxom, although there's no connection —
and a “paddling” of ducks, which be-
comes a “team” in flight, and is matched
by a “gaggle” of geese, on water, string-
ing-out to a “skein” in the air. A “wedge”
of swans is understandable, too they
fly in V-formation at least part of the
time. But why a “flight” of doves, yet
a “flock” of swifts, which are flight
personified, particularly as swallows also
congregate in flights? A “nye” of
pheasants is correct terminology, but the
only man I’ve ever known use the term
regularly pronounced it “nide”—he could
have had something there, too ; it comes
from the Latin nidus, a nest, and origi-
nally referred to a brood of pheasants.
The same derivation is responsible for
“eyas,” a nestling, and in falconry a
hawk which had been taken as a nestling,
as distinct from one caught after it had
attained its adult plumage (that’s a
“haggard”).
* * * *
“Stromlo”: Some of Australia’s most
primitive inhabitants will be astonished,
probably, by parties from the team of
98 Army surveyors currently mapping an
area of 100,000 square-miles of northern
Australia in an arc from Derby to
Camooweal. Aircraft, helicopters and
the Navy frigate Gascoyne are co-
operating in the work, which will take
the parties into some of the remotest
and least-known parts of the continent.
Existing maps are mostly based on old
surveys and are largely inaccurate. Some
of the coastal maps date back to charts
made by Matthew Flinders in 1802-3.
* * * *
“Brick E.”: Surprised to read of that
Chinese gardener using a shoulder-yoke
to carry his watering-cans (B. 8/ 7 / ’59).
When I was a kid the Pats jig-jogged
along the narrow path between their
well - raised beds with the cans sus-
pended from a long, springy pole laid
across the back of the neck and hunched
shoulder-muscles. But it might surprise
younger members of the building-trade
to learn that brickies’ laborers no more
than 20 years ago used shoulder-yokes
on the construction of brick-kilns. In-
stead of mortar, fireclay was used, a mix-
ture much too liquid to be carried in a
hod. Hence the yokes ; with big buckets
filled with “clay” swinging from the
yoke, the laborer walked along the wide
walls pouring the mixture on top of the
previously-laid bricks. The brickies fol-
lowed, dumping the next course of bricks
on the thin bed of fire-clay.
* * * «
“1.H.”: Two farm-gate notices which,
the owners told me, have proved most
effective: One read: “Hawkers and can-
vassers beware. We shoot every sixth
one, and the fifth has just called.” The
other was put up by a sufferer from
mushroomers: “All persons entering this
paddock do so at their own risk. The
Oryctolagus cuniculus abounds here.”
That fearsome-sounding Latin name of
the rabbit beat ’em.
* * , * *
Tt would probably amaze American
political-campaign managers to learn
that their election - ballyhoo parades,
replete with elephants, chorus-girls and
other fauna, are mere second-rate stuff,
and well out-of-date at that. A much
more dazzling show was put-on by Aus-
tralian goldminers a century back.
Deciding that one Donald Cameron was
the man for their money in the first
Victorian Parliamentary elections, the
diggers of Wool Shed Creek and Reid’s
Creek took -up a collection which
gathered sufficient gold to make a com-
plete set of horseshoes, with which the
candidate’s prad was shod. Mounted on
his golden-footed steed, the hero led an
army of miners to the small but roaring
town of Beechworth. In a mighty pro-
cession the yelling diggers followed their
gold-mounted prospect down the main
street to the door of the polling-booth.
Ninety-nine years later a stone memorial
was erected on the site of the shoeing.
A plaque gives a brief account of the
event and a gilded horseshoe on the top
illustrates it. Two points of interest,
however, are not given. One is whether
or not the candidate was elected ; the
other, what happened to the golden shoes.
I fancy the candidate failed ; but the
horseshoes —well, maybe they brought
somebody good luck! —“Villefair.”


f\UR district’s tame hatter was taken
to town by a kindly policeman and
the minister, and expressed delight at
the modern world he had long renounced.
But pleasure turned to lament when he
arrived back home and found his fire
out —for the first time in seven years!
“Sparrow.”
* * * *
“Dorian”: Friends in Brisbane have a
bright - eyed corgi thoroughly house-
trained, except that when visitors arrive
Bobby is apt to get excited. In order
to preserve amicable relations with
neighbors, Bobby is forbidden to bark
during the night. But when the cater-
wailings of cats pierce the evening calm
the pooch gets around the ban by bark-
ing in falsetto —a kind of soft soprano
apology for a full-blood warning which
effects a working compromise between
satisfaction of canine instincts and the
hostility of neighbors
* * * *
“Kelms”: Tawny - frogmouth chicks
are often blown from ihe nest (B.
8/7/’59), and it doesn’t take a gale to
do it. Podargus builds the most make-
shift nest of any bird, and it serves its
purpose far less effectively than the
“nest” of some birds that don’t build
at all—such as the frogmouth’s distant
relative the spotted-nightjar. That fowl
lays its single egg on the ground, amongst
dead leaves where it’s almost impossible
to see either the sitting bird or the egg
when the bird’s away.- The frogmouth
nests comparatively high—l’ve seen a
nest 40ft. from the ground —and the
few sticks it lays across a fork offer
practically no protection to either eggs
or nestlings.
* * * *
“Harbel”: Aviculturists are turning
their attention more and more to the
various species of African lovebirds;
and though there is at present little hope
of getting, as with the budgie, unexpected
colors in a nest of fledglings, the possi-
bility of doing so in future generations
cannot be ruled-out. Already lutinos —
pink-eyed birds similar to albinos except
that the plumage is a beautiful canary-
yellow—have appeared in the Nyasa
variety. One Sydney fancier has found
experimenting with them costly. He paid
£75 for a pair of Adelaide-bred lutinos,
only to find them dead on the floor of
his aviary after cracker - night appa-
rently, in their panic, they had flown
straight into the wire. And no wonder
their necks were broken the African
expatriate is one of the fastest-flying of
small birds.
* * * *
“Manamoi”: A Western Australian
legend, said to date from the turn of
the century, concerns one Joe, a bush
boy who went to work on a railway-
construction job. Came payday ; Joe
examined his money carefully, and held
out an unfamiliar-looking coin. “That’s
oo good to me, I want real money.” “It’s
real enough, Joe,” said the pay-clerk.
Its a gold sovereign.” Joe eyed the
In q» m istrustfully. “Whose picture’s
t „ tt “Why, that’s Queen Victoria,
Joe. Yair? ’ Unimpressed, Joe turned
iTi-i7? Ver anc * sc l u i nte d a t St. George.
What’s that ?” “That,” said the clerk,
with a flash of inspiration, “is John
“ Don't stare at me like that, you little gluttons!”
Forrest on a brumby, spearing a bungarra
with a blackfeller’s spear.” All doubt
assuaged by the magic name, Joe pocketed
his pay and went off grinning.
* * * *
“Eldaob”: I now doubt the fummy’s
vaunted ability to see supremely well in
pitch - darkness. Entering the feed - shed
at night I heard a scraping noise behind
me. Switching-on the torch, I found
Puss laboriously squeezing herself
through a small hole in the wall —right
beside the open doorway! As my hair
slowly flattened-out again, she ceased
her redundant efforts and stalked-out
through the open doorway.
* * * *
That “fear of bulldogs” noted in the
story of Judy O’Grady (1/7/’59)
isn’t confined to Australia. It all recalled
another Judy belonging to Edwardian
London.
On receipt of a telegram from my
sister asking me to collect a dog off the
Bridgewater train and bring her to Cam-
bridge, I, a mere slip of a girl of 17,
went to Paddington Station and asked
the guard of that train if he had a dog
aboard.
He eyed me up and down. “Have you
come to get her?” he asked.
“Yes.”
“Have you seen her?”
“No.”
“Then come with me,” he said.
Standing chained in the van was Judy,
a full-grown bulldog of the Rodney
Stone breed. With the brindle markings
on her face and powerful white body,
she was the exact replica of the dog we
are so familiar with, seen standing on
the Union Jack.
Cautiously the guard unhooked the
chain, as thick as my wrist, and handed
it to me.
“Sure you’ll be all right?” he asked.
“Oh, yes,” I told him —feeling anything
but all right.
No one hindered our progress down
the platform—in fact, a path was cleared
for me.
I hailed a hansom-cab to take me
across to Kings Cross Station. The cabby
demurred: “Is that dog quiet?”
“Quiet as a lamb,” I hopefully assured
him.
“Well, he don’t look it to me!”
But I got inside, and Judy sat on the
seat beside me, her head well above the
apron of the cab—and such publicity I
have never enjoyed before or since.
The guard of the Cambridge train
suggested I take Judy in the carriage
with me ; “The van’s full. There ain’t
no room for her”
Dogs were then—still are, in fact —
acknowledged differently in England than
in Australia, so we travelled together,
but without company, for, though
the door of the carriage was often
opened, no one came in.
We two became well acquainted on
that trip, and I never want a better com-
panion ; our loving acceptance of each
other lasted for the rest of her life. An
absolute lady, but guarding, by her
dignified mien, the home and its occu-
pants from the tramps and gipsies, so
prevalent at that time.
Her prototype was the ideal choice to
represent the Empire. Being slow to fight,
the petty bickerings of lesser breeds were
beneath her, but oh, boy! —when
thoroughly roused could she fight—and
never let go!
L. N. RADCLIFF.


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Ueqchart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Mullens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
BWBI7I <3 lines) 8L5327
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECELEX,” Sydney
PRING DEAN & CO.
H. 11. Dean, V. J. Berner, XV. L. Hunt, J. A. Hudson.
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
27 Hunter St., SYDNEY. Telephone: BW4OII (3 lines)
Telegrams Address: Bring: Stock Exchange, Sydney.
Cables Address: Einwar, Sydney.
Business.Rollouy.Etc
THE HOT BREATH OF TAKEOVER
A pparently feeling the hot
of 'potential take-
over down the back of its neck,
the Australian Gypsum Pro-
ducts Pty. group (Australian
Gypsum in Sydney, Victor
Electric Plaster and Peninsula
Plaster in Melbourne) has
hastened what might have
been expected to be its normal
process of benefits-distribution
by springing a one-for-one
bonus-issue on the market in
a move that has sent the shares
of the holding-companies from
around 50s. early in July to
86s. last week.
Almost ever since the
announcement by Associated
Pulp and Paper Mills that
it was “negotiating” with
another company, later
revealed to have been Masonite,
there has been movement in
Gypsum shares. And since
C.S.R. jumped in swiftly and
made Masonite what was
apparently a better offer than
A.P.P.’s, the movement up-
wards in Gypsum shares has
been more pronounced.
The reason isn’t hard to find.
The building-board business
has been principally in the
hands of Masonite, C.S.R.
(Timbrock and Cane-ite) and
Associated Pulp (Burnie-
board). Building-materials
made out of gypsum (plaster-
board, insulating tiles and
plaster-of-Paris products
generally) have mostly been
produced by the Australian
Gypsum group and the C.S.R.
Recently the C.S.R. arranged
to take-over control of the
Bradford Insulation companies
(making Bradwool) and came
into competition with Austral-
ian Gypsum in another field —
that of Insulwool.
Since there is tendency
among hardware- and timber-
merchants to become “one-
brand” houses so far as wall-
board is concerned, the attrac-
tions in Australian Gypsum
Products Pty. must have be-
come immediately apparent to
Associated Pulp. A takeover
would have added to the list
of building-materials which
this manufacturer could have
offered to any retailer along
with Burnie-board when it
came up against competition
from the C.S.R.
Whether Associated Pulp
had any definite intentions in
this direction isn’t known, nor
has there been any real
information as to whether
"... and then there's this account running back
into April.”
C.S.R. was likely to make a
move and swallow this ind-
ependent gypsum-processor.
But the board of Australian
Gypsum Products and its
holding companies in any
case acted promptly and with
decision.
A one-for-one bonus-issue,
and an indication that the
dividend will be maintained
at 10 p.c. on the new capital,
as on the old, provided profits
are maintained at current levels,
is a handsome present to share-
holders indeed. It means that
to old holders the 10 p.c. dis-
tribution jumps to 20 p.c. on
the par-value of any investment
made since the previous bonus-
issue in 1957.
It would appear that, had
there been no thought of take-
over, the bonus-issue might
have been deferred until all
the new plant recently installed
was in full operation. But even
on the profit-figures for 1957-
58 (and 1958-59 results are
reported to show a “satisfac-
tory improvement on the
previous year”), The Bulletin
was of the opinion that
the true profit (judged from
taxation provisions) was
nearer 38 p.c. on holding-co.
combined capital than the 20.2
p.c. indicated in the consoli-
dated accounts.
In view of the fact that 1958-
59 profits are an improvement
on those for the previous year,
a 20 p.c. (that is, 10 p.c. on
the bonus-increased capital)
distribution would still be very
comfortable out of a profit on
which tax was paid equal to,
say, 40 p.c. (after tax) on
present capital, or 20 p.c. on
the new.
The Australian Gypsum Pro-
ducts group has built-up a high
state of efficiency and quality
over the years, and full marks
should be given to chairman
Raymont Moore, whose name
repeatedly crops-up these days
along with announcements of
bonus-issues or similar benefits
from other well-managed com-
panies—Newbold Refractories
and R. Fowler are two that
come to mind. There has been
a magnificent build-up from
the depression days.
The principal subsidiaries of
Australian Gypsum Products
are Australian Plaster In-
dustries Pty., Waratah Gypsum
Pty., Insulwool Products Pty.,
Bellco Pty., and Australian
Plaster Co. Pty.
The group mines gypsum
(which is used for the making
of plaster-of-Paris, as an in-
gredient in Portland cement,
and as a soil-improver) at
Kowulka and Stenhouse Bay
(S.A.), Ivanhoe (N.S.W.),
Mildura (Vic.) and in the Vic-
torian Maliee. It has plaster-
mills at Melbourne, Sydney,
Adelaide, Thevenard (S.A.),
Mildura (Vic.) and Auckland
(N.Z.), and these produce
fibrous-plaster sheeting, plaster-
board, hard wall - plasters
(under the Victor and Waratah
trade-names), and dental and
surgical plasters.
Perlite is mined at Nerang
(Q.) and processed in Sydney ;
it is used for fireproofing and
lightweight insulation of
modern buildings, and the ex-
panded ore is used as an aggre-
gate with plaster or cement.
Insulwool is an insulation for
homes and commercial build-
ings, as well as for appliances
requiring temperature-control;
it is also used as an acoustic.
A wide range of other acoustic
products is turned out, includ-
ing the plaster Perfotile, and
the group’s own contracting
organisation will undertake
acoustic installations. School
chalks are also produced under
the name of Bellco, and others
by arrangement with Reeves,
of London. The group makes
Burgess micro-switches to pro-
vide automatic control of many
operations.
As indicated previously, it is
likely that the process of dis-
tributing benefits to share-
holders has merely been
accelerated by takeover possi-
bilities, and that they would


A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. Li. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Life Building,
2!)7 Queen Street, Brisbane
_ Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 (4 Lines) P.O. Box No. 1887 TV
Cape Yorf
QUEENSLAND
*
\
-A
★±
NEW SOUTH WALES
VICTORIA
Portland
"From
Cope York
to
Portland'-
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED ,
(Incorporated in Victoria)
Established 1885.
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
The only Trustee company having offices
each with its own Board of Directors and
Management in three States—New South
Wales, Victoria and Queensland.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
And at Newcastle, Albury, Townsville, Too-
woomba, Rockhampton and Charleville.
UT23C
have come in a couple of years
anyway. Because of the bonus-
issue being made now, any
potential takeover would cost
the institution taking-over in
excess of 86s. a share, as against
a price of 505 .-plus previously.
On past performances, share-
holders in the A.G.P. group
have every reason to feel satis-
fied with the present manage-
ment.
Those “Three-year Holds”
Tn The Bulletin of May 6
this year a series of invest-
ment recommendations was
begun with the preface: “There
are a number of stocks in the
present highly-priced market
that give definite promise of
income-increment over the next
three years.”
First suggestion was Mauri
Bros, and Thomson ords. The
dividend and bonus-issues pat-
tern of the past was examined,
and the summary concluded:
“The stock in any case is a
very sound and expanding one.
It has a particularly wide and
varied net of subsidiaries which
is being extended every year.”
Only three months have
gone by, but in that time the
co. has arranged to acquire
control of Raleigh Preserving
and to enter into a subsidiary
partnership with Crosse and
Blackwell, the big U.K. vinegar-
making and preserving co.
Div.-rate for 1958-59 is not
yet known (it will probably be
at the interim rate of 10 p.c.),
but the scrip has risen in price
from the 48s. at the time of
mention to 58s. last week.
In the issue of May 13
Cuming Smith, then at 395.,
was pointed-out, and it was
said that as “an investment in
a key-industry the shares to
date appear to have been
somewhat overlooked by the
sharemarket, probably because
of the complexity of their
investment ramifications.” Last
week the shares sold at 465.
On May 20 Henry Jones was
suggested when the market
for its shares was at 555. At
that figure, it was recorded,
the stock had “shown very
little appreciation this year, and
is well below the highest price
of previous years”; also that
“the greater part of earnings
which have been exhibited
over the past 20 years have
been locked-up in this com-
pany, and shareholders have
had little more than their
10 p.c. during a long period
of build-up. There hasn’t been
a bonus-issue since 1927.”
From the 555. of that date
the shares have gone to 695.
On May 27: “The three
holding-cos. in Australian
Gypsum Products Pty., Ltd.—
they are Australian Gypsum
(Sydney), Victor Electric Plaster
(Melbourne) and Peninsula
Plaster (Melbourne) are sug-
gested this week as likely to
repay holding over a period
of two or three years... .Taxa-
tion provision suggests that the
true profit is more than three
times the dividend. When plant-
extension is complete profits
should benefit further, and
coincidentally the need for
retention will not be so great.”
The shares of all three hold-
ing-cos. were then at 50s. or
under. Last week, after
announcement of a one-for-one
all - round bonus - issue (see
page 20, this issue), they sold
at 86s.
A deep breath was necessary
before drawing attention to
Kandos (Cement, then at 605.,
in the issue of June 3. But
for three-year holding the
merit seemed to be unquestion-
able. That week’s suggestion
concluded: “Profits of the
operating - co. are not dis-
closed, nor are its reserves ;
but a concern which has paid
10 p.c. p.a. to its public share-
holders while adding so greatly
to its plant-capacity without
raising fresh capital should
eventually reach the stage
where its earnings will show
a steep increase at a time when
the drain on its cash resources
ceases. That point, allowing
for maintenance of general
constructional activity through-
out the Commonwealth, should
be reached by the 1961-62
term.”
Kandos scrip has now moved
up to 675. 6d.
Over the three months since
the first of these suggestions
was made the sharemarket
has been something of a
pressure-cooker, and share
prices have been rising at an
unusually fast pace. Take-
overs, and talk of takeovers,
have stimulated boardroom
activity as well as sharemarket
activity.
Whether the market will
maintain its present level is a
rather uncomfortable question
to answer. What The Bulletin
was convinced of at the time
the stocks were suggested was
their merit for holding for
income over a period of up to
three years.
Shipping Shares Rise
Australian shipping
** services dwindling each
year—there is no Australian-
registered passenger-vessel at
present running from the east
coast to the West—the rise
in the shares of Adelaide
Steam from 255. earlier this
year to 355., Huddart Parker
from 575. to 88s., and Mc-
Ilwraith McEachearn from 235.
6d. to 305., buyer, is obviously
not prompted by prospects of
improved shipping earnings.
The takeover bid by Elec-
tronic Industries for Huddart
Parker caused the sharemarket
to focus its attention on other
shipping-cos. with large wads
of investments as well as under-
valued freeholds, and the
bonus-issue from Burns Philp,
made, apparently, in an attempt
to shake-off some possible
takeover, gave speculators
additional food for thought.
There is an impression
abroad that Jardine, Mathieson,


B. R.
is read
by the
Top Men
in
INDUSTRY
and
COMMERCE
You, too, will find it
invaluable in keeping
up to date with new
developments.
A top management
journal dealing with all
phases of business.
Official organ :
Australian Institute of
Company Directors.
Commence subscribing now.
Published monthly, £3/3/-
per annum.
BUSINESS REVIEW
243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
MA 1614
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ing’s. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A, EISHER, 8.A.. B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
world-wide shipping and trad-
ing people who have been
finding their scope in the China
Seas restricting (they have
already made an experimenfal
alternative southward venture
into the New Guinea area)
may be down around these
parts shopping for a shipping-
line or two, plus whatever
might go with a shipping-line
or two.
Adelaide Cement Bonus
A n effective two - for - one
bonus-issue (12 f.-p. ss.
shares in exchange for each £1
ord. now held), through recon-
struction by means of a new
holding-co., was the striking
picture offered to the Adelaide
sharemarket by Adelaide
Cement Co., Ltd., last week.
The £1 ords. had risen to
80s. prior to the official release,
and then mounted to 905.,
so the extent of the bonus was
not entirely unexpected.
Under terms of a loan from
the S.A. Government, the ord.
div. in the past has been
restricted to 8 p.c. p.a., though
the co.’s profits averaged a
disclosed 31.8 p.c. on ord.
capital over the five years to
May 31, 1958, with the show-
ing at 37 p.c. in the final term.
The loan from the S.A.
Government (at under 4 p.c.
interest) is now to be repaid
through the raising of an over-
draft.
A div. of not less than 7
p.c. is forecast on the bonus-
increased capital. Pref.-share-
holders are to be offered five
ss. shares in the new holding-
co. or 355.. in cash for each
of the 15,000 8 p.c. cum £1
prefs.
Takeover Tea-party in
Queensland
ITTHth Australia’s expanding
and growing secondary
industries, takeovers are
becoming the order of the day.
This is certainly the case in
Queensland, where, for the
twelve months to June 30 last,
there were 17 cases of offers
being accepted. This has
resulted in “takeover jitters.”
A southern director making
a casual purchase at a retail-
store ; a tentative inquiry by a
rival organisation ; a mystery
caller from the south: all these
events can be traced as the
start of a takeover rumor and
its consequent market fluctua-
tions.
One of the more recent
stocks to be discussed at “take-
over tea” has been Allan and
Stark, Ltd. Despite the chair-
man’s repeated denial ofl any
takeover approach, last week-
end both Cox Bros, and Myers
were found to be in the field.
Directors of Central Queens-
land Salt were quick to make
a statement after seeing the
market for their shares rise 7s.
overnight. Although a take-
over was not mentioned, the
company has had discussions
with another organisation in
seeking additional markets.
A “cursory look” at Bruce
Pie Industries inflated the
market price of the shares by
2s. 6d. Even a mere whisper
about Brisbane Permanent
Banking and Building Society
is enough to put the shares up
several shillings. Another
retailer, T. C. Beirne, rose and
fell without any statement by
the company. According to
rumors, however, the deal was
all but signed! McDonnell
and East, the George-street
retailer, rises and falls with
monotonous regularity accord-
ing to whether or not a take-
over rumor is around.
The symptom of the “jitters”
is the propensity of the investor
to blindly follow the whim of
Dame Rumor. Together with
expectations of a quick profit,
speculators see in every bit of
tattle the vision of another
Masonite-C.S.R. deal.
Australia’s Board Refuses
TVirectors of Australia
Hotel Co., Ltd., Sydney
have declined to accept the
takeover offer made by Federal
Hotels, Ltd., Melbourne. The
offer was of 20s. cash, plus
four f.-p. ss. Federal shares,
and two ss. Federal 7 p.c. un-
secured notes, convertible into
two ss. shares at par on June
30, 1964, for each Australia
£1 share. At last week’s market
the offer was roughly equi-
valent to 70s. per Australia
share.
The Australia has also
announced higher profits for
1958-59, and has lifted the
div.-rate on the bonus-increased
capital from 12| p.c. to 15
p.c.
Following announcement of
the increased div., Australia
shares, which had risen to
around 70s. on early takeover
talks and then dropped to 615.,
rose again to 655.
Federal Hotels will now
make direct overtures to Aus-
tralia shareholders.
Savoy (London) Pays-off
■piVE years ago there was an
attempt by a financial
group in London to take-over
the Savoy Hotel, Ltd., and to
develop its hotels as office
properties. The attempt failed.
At the annual meeting of
Savoy Hotel in London on
April 17, Hugh Wontner,
chairman and managing-
director, pointed out that those
stockholders who held their
shares and resisted the take-
over offer (in spite of the high
price offered) had done far
better than those who sold,
“and, even ignoring two
capital-bonuses, their stock is
worth more in the market to-
day than it ever reached during
the takeover struggle.”
Savoy Hotel, Ltd., which, in
addition to the Savoy, owns
Claridges, the Berkeley and the
Connaught (a new addition to
the string), as well as Simpson’s-
in-the-Strand and engineering,
furnishing, laundering and
garage offshoots, celebrated the
present occasion by paying 20
p.c. to ordinary-shareholders,
including a tax-free 1 p.c.
capital-dividend.
Speaking of plans to rebuild
the Berkeley and at the same
time retain its charm and
intimate atmosphere (no
“factory-like building” or
“box-like rooms”), chairman
Wontner said:
This brings to my mind what
seems to me a regrettable tendency,
perhaps difficult to avoid within
existing rules of angles of light and
plot-ratios, to turn London’s new
buildings into something similar to
New York; and, unfortunately,
planning-schemes put forward today
very often seem to have the effect
of destroying the charm of London,
its winding streets, its nooks and
crannies and odd little corners and
shapes; in fact, of destroying one
of the things that appeals most to
an American visitor and attracts
him to come here, He cannot very
easily, if at all, find anything similar
in his own cities.
A. P. (Sir Alan) Herbert,
proposing a vote of thanks,
said:
I don’t think the directors will
be surprised or dismayed by the
comparatively small attendance of
indignant shareholders. In times
of storm and heavy weather the
seabirds congregate outside on the
banks, on the shores of the Thames,
but in sunny weather they stay
away, content and happy by the
sea.
The same goes for shareholders,
who, very sensibly, do not inter-
fere unless things are going wrong.
The year has been, as we have
heard, not only a rosy but a
record one. I will not dwell upon
record profits because I know how
odious, how distasteful, is not
merely the fact but the thought of
profit in the minds of a large, but
I think diminishing, number of
citizens of this country, to whom
the only decent businessman is one
who makes a loss, because then he
can be nationalised and the loss
made permanent. I am sure that
the directors, too, are not only
concerned with profit. They think,
rightly, that the sound profit is
evidence of efficiency, and also an
invitation to investment. But,
being good men, they also think,
as all good men do, that private
profit should go hand in hand with
public service.
Colonial Mutual Building
of Melbourne’s most-
admired landmarks, the
Colonial Mutual’s granite
office on the north-west corner
of Elizabeth and Collins
Streets, is to come down.
Fortunately the C.M.L. is
putting-up another building of
character, architecturally more
attractive than another glass-
house.
It will cost £3 million and
will have 16 stories above and
three (including a sub-base-
ment car-park) below ground-
level. It will be set on a black-
granite base surmounted by a
facade of Sicilian pearl-marble
inset with bronze frames and
spandrels. It will take about
three years to put-up.




SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Artbursts
Indor.esian Art
How easily a great tradi-
tion can be lost and how
difficult it is to regain is
exemplified in an exhibition of
Indonesian arts and crafts at
the Tasmanian Tourist Bureau's
gallery in Melbourne.
Indonesian art has a respec-
table antiquity. Some 2000
years ago, when Java had a
twentieth of its present popula-
tion, Indian traders started to
take an interest in the island.
The flag usually follows trade,
and by the sixth century a.d.
there were flourishing empires
on the island. Art followed the
flag in this case and, as the
Hindus were great builders, in
a remarkably short time Java
was covered with shrines,
monasteries and temples,
Hindu and Buddhist.
The Brahmanic temple-city
of Parambahan occupies
several square-miles, and you
can walk five miles round the
terraces of Burubudur follow-
ing the life of Sakyamuni
exquisitely portrayed in
frescoes by sarong-clad crafts-
men who never heard of the
Greeks or Alexander and yet
show their influence in their
carving.
Then Arab traders started to
take an interest in Java. Out
went the great empire of Mod-
jopahit and in came the great
empire of Matai am ; while the
Hindus who had not been
murdered fled to Bali. Un-
fortunately the followers of
Mahomet had no time for
graven They pillaged
the temples and knocked the
heads off the Thousand
Buddhas, one at least being
knocked as far as the National
Gallery in Melbourne.
By the time the Dutch came
the temples were safely buried
under hundreds of feet of
volcanic dust and jungle, where
they remained until Stamford
Raffles unearthed them again
during the short British occu-
pation. They were duly pil-
laged by the Dutch to make
retaining-walls and embank-
ments.
Before the last war the
Dutch got a conscience and
were beginning to preserve and
restore them when the Japs
grabbed the islands. Then Dr.
Soekarno and his friends took-
over, turned''the Dutch out and
became custodians of the
ancient buildings their fore-
bears had created.
Dr. Soekarno is apparently
alive to the importance of
Java’s artistic past and would
like to restore it in all its glory.
For this purpose he has estab-
“I’d do anything for you, Angel-face—fight hulls,
shoot Niagara, rocket into space, anything—on a
suitable script, of course !”
lished an academy of the plastic
arts in the holy, city of Jog-
jakarta. Unfortunately, this is
an age of professors, not doers,
and by the look of the paint-
ings and statuary in this exhibi-
tion they are at their fell work
in Java. That section of the
show is as like any current
show in Melbourne as two peas
out of the same pod. Only the
village water-jugs and kitchen-
ware and the hand-woven and
hand-painted batik have the
beauty of line and color that
link them with the tradition —
these were preserved in the
courts of the princes and
sultans, who weren’t demo-
crats but tyrants and pretty
bloody tyrants at that.
It is the same with the Bali
section. The Hindu survivors
of the Moslem Jehad fled to
that island of active volcanoes
and beautiful women and,
following their habit, covered
it with shrines, temples, com-
munal baths and viharas. They
used a soft volcanic stone
called tratas, which weathers
badly, so myriads of craftsmen
in countless kampongs were
incessantly engaged in restoring
the heroes, nymphs and gods
of the Hindu pantheon and the
frescoes, sometimes indulging
their individual fancy by
putting in among the un-
ashamedly naked ladies a
stout Dutch Kompeni official in
a top-hat and a tailed coat.
It was still a living art 30
years ago when I was last on
the island, but I would be
immensely surprised if today
it isn't a dead art. I saw work-
men on that occasion pouring
cement into a wooden mould
of gods and heroes in a rajah’s
palace: they had got the idea
from watching Dutch engineers
making concrete bridges. As
Gresham’s Law applies to art
just as much as to money, one
wouldn’t expect any more
proper carvers to be left today
in Bali than there are in Mel-
bourne.
However, the Java batik, the
hand - woven silks from
Macassar and the gold cloths
from Sumatra make the show
worth seeing.
M. G. SKIPPER.
Contemporary Group
Except for Jean Appleton’s
active and. ingenious “River
Landscape” and, less certainly,
Margo Lewers’s vivid but
indeterminate “Abstraction,”
this year’s Contemporary
Group exhibition at Sydney
Macquarie Galleries has hardly
the fresh force to live-up to
its title or to match the best
standards of previous years.
If it is to continue to be what
once it almost was —a summary
of the best contemporary
painting it needs a few
new members, including some
from other States.
However, if you understand
its purpose differently, merely
as a group of capable painters
presenting, still capably, the
sort of paintings they have
often exhibited before, there is
plenty to look at with pleasure
—particularly George Dun-
can’s “Burrawang Country-
side,” Donald Friend’s “Two
Boys, Ceylon,” George Law-
rence’s “Corner House, Surry
Hills,” Jack Carington Smith’s
“Morning” and the exhibits
by Grace Cossington Smith
and Thea Proctor.
Stage and Music
Mattiwilda Dobbs
Now on her second Aus-
tralian tour for the A.8.C.,
the American soprano ranged
far and wide in programme-
material for her Sydney con-
certs. Since she was here four
years ago her coloratura sing-
ing has strengthened to a
remarkable combination of
agility and pure tone. This
bell-like clarity is one of the
outstanding characteristics of
her voice, and it is obviously
achieved by the most skilful
use of the “covered” tone, at
the service of which is breath-
control of the finest order.
Her tone-coloring, too, to suit
the moods of a song, is effected
with much more subtlety than
before.
She began with a bracket of
Lully: a serenely sung recita-
tive followed by an aria from
“Atys,” sung with restrained
emotion exactly suited to the
style of the 17th-century
Frenchman. The “Song of
Venus” from his “Therese”
was an enchantingly heartfelt
appeal for the resurgence of
love.
Trilling, that vocal device
which above all others is fully
mastered by so few sopranos,
was brought to the glory of
high art in Rameau’s “Air of
a Shade.” A group of
Schubert lieder included “To
Laura,” with voice and face
vying in radiance to convey
the song’s essential rapture;
“The Trout,” infused with a
delightful touch of the mis-
chievous ; “Ave Maria” —that


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 18 78
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. 0. S. PETTERSKN, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
delight and despair of singers
with its tremendous test of
breathing, legato and phrasing
—as perfect a reading of it
as one could hear; and the
blithe and rhythmic morsel,
“Son of the Muses.”
Richard Strauss songs in-
cluded “Serenade” —the only
one to match Schubert’s —given
plenty of warmth ; “Morning,”
probably the slowest-tempo
song ever written, and invested
with an unmistakable under-
current of sadness ; and
“Amor,” the smoothest of
lyrical streams.
There were Gallic songs by
Hahn and Chausson —always
a strong challenge to a singer’s
intellect —and Miss Dobbs
brought their essential beauties
to the surface. There were
also (surprisingly) three songs
of the vocalise kind: one by
Rachmaninoff, Saint - Saens’s
“Nightingale and the Rose,”
and Panofka’s “Tarantella”—
wordless exercises in vocal
aerobatics negotiated with fas-
cinating ease.
The natural refinement of
Miss Dobbs’s voice was ad-
mirably suited to the calm,
clear phrases of Mozart’s can-
zonetta, “Ridente in Calma.”
“With Joyous Emotion,”
Susanna’s aria from “The
Marriage of Figaro,” was sung
as an exact reflection of the
title.
The four Brahms Madchen-
lieder songs, of a sameness of
mood and rather austere, were
followed by Brahms in more
benevolent vein: “We Wan-
dered Together,” “In a Boat”
and the well-known “The Mes-
sage”—all mellifluous expres-
sions of buoyant hope.
Of contemporary songs, a
splendid one by Castelnuovo-
Tedesco, of strong Iberian
flavor and rhythm, was charm-
ingly sung. By comparison,
Pizzetti’s “Fishing for the
Ring” was poor fare.
The soprano ranged the
globe for an extended bracket
of folksongs, the best being a
humorous Creole song and a
lovely air from Brazil by Villa-
Lobos. The only facet of her
art which failed fully to satisfy
was the singing of negro
spirituals, but this was due to
no fault of either voice or
interpretation. No woman’s
vocal equipment can do them
justice ; they call for the rich,
deep voice of a man.
Geoffrey Parsons, all
through the exacting pro-
gramme, collaborated with
such ease and taste of musician-
ship as to establish him very
solidly in this sphere.
“King Lear”
Any well-intentioned parent
who is contemplating dividing-
up his substance amongst his
children during his lifetime in
order to ensure for himself a
tranquil old age should, before
taking further action, consult
Shakspeare. A visit to the
Comedy Theatre, Melbourne,
will forcefully acquaint him
with what Shakspeare thought
about this subject.
If Lear had wanted to make
enemies of his children he
couldn’t have gone a better
way about it. All he did by
giving away his kingdom was
to make himself a candidate
for an old-age home. Had he
kept his charming family guess-
ing as to what he was going
to do with his money and his
kingdom he would probably
have lived to a green old age
surrounded by three loving
daughters all furiously compet-
ing for his interest.
Poor Lear! With his
knightly hangers-on he made
such a pest of himself at the
castle he had given one of his
daughters that she had to kick
him out, so he made a pest of
himself at the castle he had
given another of his daughters,
and she kicked him out. He
had no castle of his own to go
to, and as old-age homes hadn’t
been invented, all he could do
was go mad and spend the rest
of his days wandering about in
very dirty weather cursing and
reviling his ungrateful daughters
—when, as his Fool aptly put
it, he should have been reviling
himself for not knowing more
about human nature.
The Fool is Shakspeare him-
self commenting on the follies
of his own creations. Like the
chorus of Greek tragedy, the
Fool is the only person in the
play who consistently talks
wisely.
It never occurs to Gloucester
to blame himself for the bloody
disharmony between his legiti-
mate son and his bastard. “As
flies to wanton boys are we to
the gods ; they kill us for their
sport,” he says. So he blames
the gods for the mess he made
of Edgar and Edmund. As
Edmund says:
This is the excellent foppery of
the world that, when we are sick
in fortune—often the surfeit of our
own behavior—we make guilty of
our disasters, the sun, the moon,
the stars: as if we were villains
by necessity; fools by heavenly
compulsion
And what a mess Lear made
—: the faithful Gloucester
blinded, the faithless Edmund
slaughtered, Regan poisoned,
Goneril suicided, and Lear left
howling over the dead body
of the only daughter who really
loved him.
Shakspeare has been criti-
cised for writing melodrama.
He was a better judge of what
is melodrama than all his
critics. If “Lear” is melodrama
it is extraordinarily like our
own society; although, being
a bit more cultivated than the
society of early Britain, ours
usually substitutes polite in-
difference for murder and
wipes-off its debt to the aged
with a twilight home or a
trifling pension.
As to the actual performance
that stimulated the above
observations, it was dashed
good. John Laurie, the Scottish
actor, extracted the last ounce
of demented feeling out of the
part of Lear. Anthony Bazell’s
Gloucester was convincing, as
also was John Unicomb’s
Bastard. Jessica Noad and
Fernande Glyn were ade-
quately bitter as the elder
sisters, but Mavis Turner was
too good to be true as the
younger.
Goneril’s castle looked as if
it had been built by the
Housing Commission in a
hurry, but there was a surpris-
ingly good backcloth.
M. G. SKIPPER.
Prize Play
Sydney University’s Inter-
national Festival of Drama and
Music ended at the Wallace
Theatre this week with the
world premiere of “Dead Men
Walking,” by 21-year-old
architecture student Robert
Hughes, winner last year of a
University play - competition
judged by Professor Milgate
and Hugh Hunt.
The play’s prize-winning
qualities strong intellectual
impulse, sharpness of metaphor
and aphorism in dialogue—
are obvious, and rare enough to
merit high praise in a play-
wright so young ; but they are
almost lost in the outer
dramatic space of theory and
abstraction.
The basic situation, for
example. We have a society
run by an “Academy,” which
is a law unto itself, deciding all
moral and political questions.
It produces as figureheads one
dictator after another whose
brains it has washed clean like
slates on which to write its
decisions and values. The
Academy has one mortal
enemy, the “Society,” which
opposes its blinkered impera-
tives and believes in human
doubt, searching and learning.
There are no in-betweens.
This obviously owes some-
thing to Orwell and Huxley,
and touches some vital con-
temporary nerves ; but how did
it come about, and why? We
never quite know. It is too
hypothetical.
Our attention is directed to
the latest dictator, a young
man who rejects the Academy’s
certainties and craves doubt.
He is reoriented, but when he
captures the Society’s leader he
becomes convinced of the
horror of his systematised life
and destroys himself.
Once again a good idea. But
it remains an idea. It advances
mainly through talk some-
times brilliant, sometimes
merely “literary”—and on an
unbroken, monochromatic level.
It is all as naive and bare and
emotionless as John White’s
accompanying music and the
expressionistic sets.
John Croyston’s production
and the acting of the Sydney
University Players seldom got
inside the play and served
mostly to underline its defects
rather than to give it the light
and shade it needs.
Films
“The Old Man and the
Sea”
Besides being a wonderful
story, Hemingway’s short novel
about the old Cuban fisherman
who fights an enormous marlin
on a handline for two days,
gets it, then loses it to sharks,
is a sort of symbolic poem on
man’s struggle against the
forces which always finally
destroy him but never wholly
defeat him.
This film, though it searches
honestly for pictures big and
colorful and atmospheric
enough to suggest larger mean-
ings, fails as both story and
poem. It never quite conveys
the magnitude and duration of


THE HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY
i
The Perfect Hotel
For BUSY Men and Women
Right in the heart of the city, the
Hotel Metropole is the ideal place to
stay during your Sydney business
trip and at the same time you’ll find
its pleasant atmosphere really
relaxing.
Only a step away from Sydney’s
main business offices and handy to
shops and all forms of transport —
The Hotel Metropole combines
convenience and comfort with the
relaxed, friendly atmosphere that
has for years made it Australia’s
friendliest Hotel. Over 400 rooms
all with telephone and hot and cold
water (85 with private bathrooms),
luxurious ultra-modern suites, day
and night room-service, fine, enter-
taining facilities and magnificent
dining-room and cellar make the
Hotel Metropole THE hotel for
busy men and women.
THE HOTEL METROPOLE
Where It’* Never
Too Much Trouble
B 0522. Box 1601, G.P.O.
the old man’s struggle—and
that is the centre of the story
and the source of its poetry.
The failure is hardly sur-
prising: the struggle really
takes place in the old man’s
heart, and there the camera
cannot go. A narrator tries to
fill the gap by telling you what
the old man is thinking as he
fights in his little rocking boat,
but they have him telling most
of the story as well, which
means that he is often describ-
ing things as the camera shows
them. Pictures and words
fight against and weaken each
other.
The fisherman is as much a
concept as a man. Spencer
Tracy, with his usual solidness
and warmth, becomes the man;
but who could become the con-
cept?
The marlin, like most sym-
bolic creatures, is all right as
long as he is out of sight and
lives mostly in one’s imagina-
tion ; but once he materialises
he loses much of his character;
and when he is killed and
lashed to the skiff he is just a
rubber marlin —a clever mock-
up and nothing more.
The sharks are better. They
can’t help being dramatic.
Their legends never desert
them.
At Sydney Century.
<* *Z*
“Marjorie Morningstar”
There is much ado about
very little in this tedious and
inflated account of Herman
Wouk’s novel about a rebel-
lious teenager who, scorning
her rich Jewish family’s plans
for marrying her off to an
efficient dollar - collector,
prefers to follow the dubious
fortunes of a playwright.
When, upon her insistence,
he is backed by a syndi-
cate to produce a play on
Broadway and clearly shows
he hasn’t the talent, she dices
him in favor of a successful
playwright the moral
apparently being that true love
and lots of lolly go together.
The dud playwright is played
by Gene Kelly, who is an
excellent dancer ; unfortunately
he is allowed to exercise his
natural gift for only about
two minutes, and for the other
118 he tries to act.
Natalie Wood, as the
feather-brained female,
decorates the scenery nicely,
but is otherwise ineffective.
Projection of character is left
to two seasoned players: Claire
Trevor, as the money-conscious
momma ; and Ed Wynn, as an
aged and indigent relative with
an acute sense of fun.
At Sydney Regent.
CAMELLIA SHOW
TTaving once planted some
choice seeds kindly donated
by a well-meaning friend, nur-
turing and caring for them
affectionately until they de-
veloped into the finest crop of
pee-the-beds ever seen in our
suburb, the present writer
acquired a reputation as The
Bulletin’s champion horti-
culturist. He was thus assigned
the task of covering the
tralian . Camellia Research
Society’s exhibition at Farmer’s
Blaxland Galleries (Sydney);
and very entertaining and in-
structive he found it.
The first thing one noticed
was not the blooms, they being
not readily observable, but
women —bevies of ’em, prides
of ’em ; they must have out-
numbered the men by about
100 to 1. The reason for this
would naturally be that their
menfolk would be too ex-
hausted from watering, dis-
budding, fertilising, weeding
and otherwise mucking-around
with their own camellias to
attend. Yet such a dispropor-
tion could also argue that the
ladies themselves were very
keen gardeners who had come
along not only to admire but
to pick-up the finer points of
the game ; and the conversa-
tions picked-up at random
during a preliminary browse
amply confirmed this:
“. . .' And you know, of
course, that Evelyn •is going
away on a world tour?”
“She isn’t! How lovely!
She’ll enjoy that! ”
“Yes, my dear, but you know
her! So excitable! Her doctor,
you know, even says she’s quite
neurotic. With all the excite-
ments of the tour I wouldn’t be
at all surprised if she came
back a total wreck!”
“ . . . Oh, yes, she was at
Jean’s party, and in that awful
taupe Empire-line thing she
had last season. I think she's
gone-off a bit lately” . . .
“. . . And here Deirdre was,
using my lipstick that I’d just
paid twelve-and-six for, smear-
ing it on lavishly! And she’s
only thirteen. Yes, she is
advanced for her age; her
Daddy thinks she’s so cute.
I really don’t know what to
do with her!”
Sill, some of the ladies had
also come to look at the ex-
hibits and were even able to
talk expertly about the blooms:
“Look at that Czar, Mavis
—we’ve got a tree of that, and
I’ll bet I could pick a hundred
blooms off it better than that
spindly-looking specimen! ”
“. . . Arthur tried his hand
at growing them, but you know
what a frightful messer he is.
We paid a pound for three
shrubs and they all died —he
pampered them too much, I
know !”
“. . . Look, Joan, that one’s
the exact color of my new
evening-dress! ”
“. . . What do they call
trumpet-looking thing growing'"
out of the centre, Shirl?”
“ . . . Tricolor? I can’t see
more than two shades in it—
they must have misnamed it!”
“. . . I’ve heard, Nell, that they
breed them in a special nursery
to get that size.”
As to the flowers themselves,
they added-up to a bewildering
variety of beauty. One noticed
a trio of blue-bloods huddled
together: Prince Eugene
Napoleon, Prince Frederick
William and the Lady Clare,
all their faces suffused bright-
pink at finding themselves in
embarrassing juxtaposition with
one of the hoi polloi, Frau
Minna Seidel.
The doughty old King Lear
held court on a side-bench, his
color appropriately that of
good red blood. There was
Elegans, haughtily aware of the
description. Hikarugenji (or
words to that effect), a Japanese
riot of pink-and-white. Frizzle
White, which seemed just to
have been given a cold-wave
perm. Kocho-Wabisuki, a
miniature just made to adorn
some dainty maid of the Ginza.
Loveliest of the delicate pinks,
Mrs. H. Boyce; and about
1700 others, or so it appeared.
If one had had room in his
garden for only two shrubs, and
was forced to make a choice,
it’s likely he’d finish-up on a
psychiatrist’s couch or, taking
the easier way, settle for a
gardenia or something else
there’s only one of.
Another item of information
was gleaned which must have
been very, very sad for those
who like to get their shrubs on
the cheap. Every now and
again someone would ask a
question, and an official, in a
very eager voice which every-
one around could hear, would
announce that camellias grown
from slips take from five to
seven years to flower, and even
then they might not prove true
to the parent.
So one left with the depress-
ing thought that it is useless
to wait for Nextdoors to go
on holidays and pinch a slip
from their Reticulata ; and
that lack of filial piety is as
rife in the vegetable as in the
human world.
BO.
More Camellias
Camellias are also having an
airing in an exhibition by Paul
Jones at the Clune Galleries,
King’s Cross —an appropriate
piece of timing because, having
illustrated some of the beauti-
ful camellia-books that have
been published in Sydney and
done it so well that you could
never quite tell whether the
book was for art-collectors or
gardeners, Paul Jones has got
himself inextricably entangled
with the camellia-cult in Syd-
ney . . v almost as if he were
a kind of tree himself.
Tree, gardener or artist, at
any rate he paints the flowers
very finely: under Old Dutch
influence, with a fidelity, even
to the drops of dew, that will
please anyone, art-lover or
gardener, who thinks that a
painted flower might as well,
after all, look like a flower;
and that a “shape” might as
well be one of the exquisite
shapes which Nature and the
camellia-cultivators have toiled
so long to produce.


Telegraphic and Cable address: “Brownhllls.”
Telephone: BW 1465 (3 lines).
A. H. BROWNHILL & CO.
(A. H. Brownhill, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
27 O’Connell Street - -- -- -- -- - Sydney
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771—8 W 8088
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Patons & Baldwins (Aust.)> Ltd.
A s far as stocks are concerned, yarn-
spinner Patons and Baldwins (Aus-
tralia), Ltd., takes the buffetings of the
wool market as they come.
Stocks, the biggest item in the balance-
sheet (on book-figures), go into the
published accounts at the lower of cost-
price or market - value at balance - date,
and, as there is little or no juggling with
stock-fluctuation provisions and the like,
the level of wool-values on the day the
books are ruled-off can play as big a
part in determining net profit for any
one year as can the actual results from
trading.
Fluctuations in wool prices do, of
course, have a considerable bearing on
Patons and Baldwins’ earnings but, on
occasions, the strict application of
traditional stock-valuation methods can
exaggerate, or minimise, the impact of
price-movements on published profits—
without in any way affecting the co.’s
real earning-power or the problems
associated with trading in an unstable
market. Under these conditions, the
violent fluctuations in P. and B.’s earn-
ings seem somewhat less alarming than
they might appear at first glance.
Judged on average figures, the co. has
given a reasonably good account of itself
since it took over the Australian interests
of Patons and Baldwins, Ltd. (U.K.), in
1951. Although an understandable
emphasis on reserve-building has kept
the average ord. div.-rate down to 6.9 p.c.
over the past seven years, the earning-rate
on an unchanged ord. capital has
averaged 18.6 p.c. over the same period,
the last three years seeing still better
results with the earning-rate rising to
21.3 p.c. p.a. and the div.-rate to 7.6 p.c.
Carrying -on a business established
towards the end of last century, the
Victorian-registered P. and B. turns-out
a variety of woollen, and, since early
last term, orlon, yarns at its big mill
at Launceston (Tasmania). High-grade
hand-knitting and embroidery wools are
also produced, while a merchandising
department handles a number of local
and imported lines, including synthetic
fibres, angora yarns, rug- and tapestry-
canvas, knitting-needles, etc.
On formation, P. and B. bought the
Australian branch of its U.K. parent
for £3,879,016, paying £1,000,000 in f.-p.
£1 ords. and £1,200,000 in cash, the
balance (£1,679,016) being regarded as
an interest-free loan, repayable in 1976.
Advance repayments against this loan
have since reduced the debt to £1,350,000.
The public came in, shortly after incor-
poration, with £500,000 of ord. capital
and £750,000 of 5 p.c. pref.-money,
raising paid capital to the present total
of £2,250,000.
Wool-values lost ground over the
greater part of last term, and the co.
again encountered cautious ordering-
policies and highly-competitive trading
conditions, in addition to the normal
hazards of processing materials bought
on a falling market. With buying-con-
fidence weakened by the trend in wool
prices, changes in spending-habits and
the possibility of greater competition
from imported lines and synthetic fibres,
it was necessary to work short-time at
the mill for a period early in the term,
and, while the co.’s share of available
business was “fully maintained,” turn-
over fell in both value and volume.
. However, stock - values again had a
considerable, if less direct, influence on
the final figures, the big £252,229 stock
write-down, which had slashed earnings
in the previous term, proving more severe
than that justified by subsequent sales.
The recovery of a “substantial” portion
of this book-loss showed-up in last term’s
results and, with £15,302 from a pro- ;
vision against forward contracts for raw
materials, contributed “materially” to
the £216,685 jump in net profit, which,
at £376,730, was written after providing
£254,300 (up £118,300) for taxation,
£128,126 (up £38,482) for depreciation
and an unstated, but relatively small,
amount for stock-adjustments:
/ Dividends
Pref. To Re-
May, Profit. 5 p.c. j —* —Old. N serves. Reserves.
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
1953.. 37,500 6 = 90,000 202,105 199,934
Tax overprovided, etc., £66,454 .. 266,388
1954.. 37,500 6 = 90,000 132,904 399,292
Profit sale assets, £619 .. .. 399,911
Tax overprovided, £7B .. .. .. 399,989
1955.. 37,500 6 = 90,000 34,240 434,229
Tax overprovided, £2OO .. .. 434,429
1956.-371,011 37,500 7$ = 112,500 221,011 655,440
Tax overprovided, £3996 . . . . 659,436
1957.. 070 37,500 84 = 127,500 346,070 1,005,506
Tax overprovided, £24,916 .. .. 1,030,422
Profit, sale investments, £9354 .. 1,039,776
1958.. 045 37,500 6 = 90,000 32,545 1,072,321
Tax overprovided, £1227 . . . . 1,073,548
Profit sale assets, £lBB .. .. 1,073,736
1959.. 730 37,500 84 = 127,500 211,730 1,285,466
Dropped from 8y p.c. to 6 p.c. in the
previous year, the div.-rate was restored
to the higher scale, earnings covering
the pref.-div. and 22.6 p.c. on ord. capital,
as against 8.1, 33.2, 22.2 and 8.3 p.c.
over the four years back to 1955.
As revealed in the balance-sheet, the
financial structure looks both solid and
comfortable, current liabilities and pro-
visions amounting to only 4s. 3d. at
May 2 last for every £ in current assets,
while fixed assets figure in the accounts
at a cost-fess-depreciation value well
below their present-day worth. Never-
theless, considering the growth and write-
down of stocks in the 1958 term, a
reduction greater than last year’s £175,558
might have been expected:
Paid capital— 1957. 1958. 1959.
Pref £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Ord 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
Reserves .. .. 1,005,506 1,072,321 1,285,466
Deferred liability 1,450,000 1,350,000 1,350,000
Overdraft .. . . 377,081 92,234
Creditors . . . . 432,993 222,596 185,771
Provision 1.-s. leave 59,000 59,000
Tax provision .. 383,352 293,000 303,694
Fipal divs. .. 146,250 90,000 127,500
£5,668,101 £5,713,998 £5,653,065
Freeholds.. .. 447,202 708,512 743,819
Plant .. .. 634,773 1,082,811 1,185,550
Stocks .. .. 2,022,117 2.327,871 2,152,313
Debtors .. .. 1,632,483 1,507,412 1,484,379
Cash, etc 931,526 87,392 87,604
£5,668,101 £5,713,998 £5,653,665
Over £260,000 was put into fixed assets
during the year, depreciation, etc., limit-
ing the addition to book-values to
£138,046. Retained earnings more than
covered the net capital-outlay and, with
funds released by the reduction in stock
and a £23,033 slip in book-debts, cleared
the way for a £284,847 cut (to £92,234)
in the overdraft.
If maintained, the improvement in
wool prices toward the close of the last
selling-season may help to stabilise the
demand for yarn from the textile industry
and encourage a greater volume of
forward-ordering. Still, at this stage,
there are few signs of any marked revival
in sales to the industry as a whole and
a relaxation of import-restrictions could,
possibly, lead to even keener competition
from overseas manufacturers, with the
results reflected in the local demand for
yarn.
At the same time, P. and B. isn’t lack-
ing in the technical and financial strength
needed to cope with the uncertainties of
its business and, as a long-term proposi-
tion, the £1 ords. might be worth a
second look at last week’s price of 295. 6d.
the scrip returning £5 14s. 4d. p.c. from
an 8i p.c. div. at this price. Book-values
at May 2 last showed a net tangible
cover of 375. 2d.
General Credits, Ltd.
HThe post-war period has seen a spec-
tacular boom in the hire - purchase
industry. In 1945 the debt outstanding
on h.-p. contracts was less than £6
million. It reached £lOO million by mid-
-1952, £2OO million by the end of 1955,
and today exceeds £350 million.
General Credits entered the h.-p. field
in 1953. The newly formed co. quickly
gathered to itself a galaxy of business.
Profits rose by leaps and bounds, drama-
tically rocketing to £460,905 in 1958.
The sparkle dimmed last term, profits
dropping to £382,243 (down £78,662),


Telegraphic 8c Cable Address “Rosdale” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
K. H. ALLEN
P. H. LEVY
M. R. E. DOWLING
A. P. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911.
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
113 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. BE 5771-2-3
406 COL.BINS STREET, MELBOURNE. 67-5089, 67-5080
Cables and Telegrams: “Ralphking” Sydney and Melbourne
Branches at Grafton and Armidale
after providing for tax, £239,786 (down
£68,184), and writing-off depreciation
£26,289 (up £4483):
To Re- Re-
April, Profit. t Dividend serves, serves.
Tax oveiprovided, £26 . . .. .. 18,987
1956. .104,811 10 p.c. = 80,000 24,811 43,798
Share-issue expenses written-off, £879 42,919
1957. .136,086 10 p.c. =112,244 23,842 66,761
Share-issue expenses w/off, £853 . . 65,908
1958..460.905 10 p.c. =164,731 296,174 362,082
Loss, sale of assets, £2117 .. . . 359,965
1959. .382,243 11§ p.c. =305,462 76,781 436,746
The earning-rate fell from 28.4 p.c. to
14.6 p.c. following 23.6 p.c., 13.1 p.c.
and 12.1 p.c. in the years 1955-57. At
the same time the div. was lifted from
10 p.c. to Ilf p.c.
Superficially a surprising gesture, the
higher rate is in fact a recognition of
the true earning-power of the co.
Finance-cos.’ profits are determined by
the difference between charges made to
consumers and expenses, which include
interest paid on borrowed funds, the cost
of collecting instalments from the hire-
purchasers, and bad debts arising by
default of borrowers.
Last April’s accounts show the co.’s
h.-p. and other outstandings at
£18,282,631 (up £3,374,915). Why then is
the profit down? Debenture and deposit
borrowing increased in the 12 months
by £4,111,364, the interest-bill as a result
rising by £313,874. Aggravated by higher
operating costs, especially the heavier
stamp-duties in Victoria and N.S.W. and
by increased losses stemming from re-
possessions, the lowered profits are essen-
tially a reflection of the inability of
the co., during the first half of the year,
to make full use of added funds while
at the same time being obliged to pay
interest thereon. The slack was taken-up
in the latter part of the year, and profits
can be expected to recover. It is unlikely,
however, that the brilliant pattern of
previous prefits-progress will be repeated.
The dynamic upsurge of h.-p. finance
is tending to level-off, the volume of
repayments to financiers, as a whole, is
now running not far below that of new
business, and boom spending is likely
to be followed by markedly reduced
borrowing—people will consolidate their
position by paying-off existing debts
before incurring new ones. Yet some
increased h.-p. activity should attend the
development of TV-services shortly to
take place in Perth, Adelaide and
Brisbane.
Originally a subsidiary of Automobile,
Fire and General Insurance Co. (A.F.G.I.
hold 20 p.c. of today’s ord. capital),
General Credits, Ltd., sought additional
share capital from the public in 1955
(offering 2,000,000 ss. ords. at par), the
scrip being listed on the Melbourne
’Change in March of that year. Since
then the issued capital has jumped from
£BOO,OOO to £2,618,250. In August, 1956,
the co. joined hands with the Commercial
Bank of Australia, Ltd. which under-
took to subscribe for 3,142,000 ords. at
par. (C.B.A. hold 45 p.c. of today’s ord.
capital.) A one-for-five par issue to ord.
shareholders accompanied this transac-
tion, which, of course gave the co.’s
credit-rating with the investment public
a tremendous fillip, with the consequent
advantage of cheaper loan-money.
The co. is controlled from Melbourne,
with branch-offices in Sydney, Brisbane
and Perth. Since the end of the financial
year branches have been opened in
Adelaide and Canberra. Two subsidiary
cos. were recently formed —the Regent
Insurance Pty. to transact reinsurance
and ancilliary business, and the G.C.L.
(Wholesale) Pty., to handle wholesale
transactions for the co.’s dealers.
Thus General Credits has strong ties
with both banking and insurance. Its
connections in these fields have greatly
facilitated the building-up of a sound
business in the financing of new and
near-new motor-cars and trucks, indus-
trial equipment for secondary and pri-
mary industry, and also a wide range of
domestic equipment.
An analysis of the balance-sheet
emphasises the underlying strength of
the co.:
1957. 1958. 1959.
Paid capital ..£1,352,750 £2,618,250 £2,618,250
Reserves . . 66,761 362,082 436,746
Debentures and
deposits . . 4,283,415 9,755,992 13,867,356
Creditors, etc. . . 189,267 468,707 439,106
Unearned income 784,961 1,826,051 2,232,246
Tax provision . . 87,640 395,611 542,954
Final div. .. 67,638 87,275 152,731
£6,832,432 £15,513,968 £20,289,389
Freeholds . . 40,559 41,462
Office equipment 40,570 65,252 95,567
H.-p. contracts . 6,385,621 14,907,716]
Advances to branch j- 18,282,631
managers . . 10,796 15,137 J
Prepayments .. 17,926 9,733 18,612
Cash, deposits . . 377,519 475,571 1,851,117
£6,832,432 £15,513,968 £20,289,389
Finance cos. charge interest to con-
sumers at a flat rate, not at an annual
rate. By expressing the amount set aside
by way of unearned income as a per-
centage of moneys due on current h.-p.
contracts, it becomes possible to gauge
whether or not a co. is making sufficient
deduction from earnings, of charges,
etc., relating to future periods. As a
general principle this figure should not
be less than 10 p.c. In the case of General
Credits unearned income at £2,232,246
(up £406,195) is 12.2 p.c. of amounts
due by h.-p. customers. In itself a very
satisfactory percentage, it is in fact even
more so, since the h.-p. outstandings
include not only amounts due under con-
tract but also sums due by non-h.-p.
debtors—unfortunately the extent of the
latter is not indicated.
Another pertinent ratio is that of
borrowings to shareholders’ equity. The
co. has raised the greater part of its
funds by successive issues of first-
mortgage debentures, and to a lesser
extent has obtained finance per medium
of fixed deposits. At balance - date
debentures stood at £10,545,290 (up
£3,397,250), and deposits were £3,322,066
(up £714,114). The proportion borne by
debentures and deposits combined, to
capital, is 4.5 to 1, and as such is typical
of not a few cos. in the h.-p. business.
Of interest, too, financed outstandings
by G.C. were seven times greater than
the co.’s capital. In any other sphere,
a gearing of this magnitude would be,
to say the least, startling, but in the h.-p.
game it is quite normal.
Reserves at April 30 were £436,746
(up £74,664), creditors had fallen to
£439,106 (down £29,601) and tax provi-
sion was £542,954 (iip £147,343). Tax
provided for during the year was closely
aligned to profits declared.
With the h.-p. boom approach-
ing a flattening - out the share-
market is tending to value finance-
co. scrip not by expectations of future
growth, but rather by the quality of the
paper written. General Credits’ record
in this respect has been unquestionably
good, and compares more than favorably
with the policy adopted by some of the
more recently formed and less soundly
balanced entrants into the h.-p. world.
Investors today are paying 10s. lOd. for
the co.’s ss. shares. At this price an
effective yield of 5.4 p.c. would be
obtained from an Ilf p.c. div. At
balance-date each share had a tangible
asset backing of ss. lOd.
Kinnears Ropes (Aust.)» Ltd.
of the current 9 p.c.
-L* *• div.-rate on a share-capital increased
by this month’s one-for-five bonus-issue
shouldn’t call for any break with the
rather cautious div.-policy followed, in
the past, by Kinnears Ropes (Aust.), Ltd.
The Victorian - registered co. has
plougned-back 50 p.c. of the profits won
since the public gained an equity in its
85-year-old business in 1954, retained
earnings averaging £82,733 p.a. during
this period, or almost £66,000 more than
the amount needed to pay 9 p.c. on the
new bonus-scrip.
Through its principal subsidiary, Geo.
Kinnear and Sons Pty., Kinnears Ropes
manufactures manila, sisal and coir
ropes, binder, baler, and bag-sewing
twines (the “harvest - twines”), and
numerous threads, yarns and twines
produced from jute, hemp, flax and
cotton. Nylon rope was added to the
range several years ago, and investiga-
tions into the wider application of
synthetic fibres is continuing, with
current emphasis on the uses of synthetic
carpet-pile.
A second subsidiary, B.D. Mops and
Buffs fty., was formed in 1956 to take-
over a concern turning-out industrial
mops and buffs from materials supplied,
in the main, by Geo. Kinnear and Sons.
The first alteration to the parent’s


ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. FF 3931.
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
Your money will
EARN
10%”
FOR 3 YEARS AND OVER
NEW £lOO,OOO ISSUE IN
FIXED DEPOSIT NOTES
With Absolute Safety
Your money is absolutely securely invested. There
is £165 security to every £lOO of depositors' money
invested. Deposit monies rank ahead of share capital
for repayments.
With Maximum Return
10% per annum for 3 years and over.
9% per annum for 2 years and over.
8% per annum for 1 year and over.
With Availability
Your money is available on request in an emergency.
WRITE TODAY FOR A PROSPECTUS TO
CO. LTD.
2nd floor, 13-15 O’Connell St., Sydney.
YOUR NAME
ADDRESS
BW 2661
(10 lines)
M498/I
8.5/8
capital-structure since forma-
tion in 1954, the bonus-issue
(to shareholders on the books
on July 22 last) will lift paid
capital to £1,083,600, all in
f.-p. 10s. ords. The div.-rate
has been steady at a comfort-
able 9 p.c. since 1955, the co.
breaking the ice with an 8 p.c.
distribution in the previous
year.
Primary producers form an
important group among the
co.’s wide range of customers,
and seasonal conditions can
exercise a fairly direct influence
on turnover through the
demand for harvest-twines.
Drought - depleted harvests
seriously affected sales of these
lines during the 1958 term (to
February 28 for the sub-
sidiaries), and, with an increase
in imports of cheap flax-canvas
yarn, helped to cut earnings by
more than 25 p.c.
However, while sales of flax-
canvas yarns “settled down to
a fairly steady level” last term,
bumper crops brought about a
big improvement in sales of
binder-, baler- and sewing-
twines and, with the benefits
of a higher turnover enhanced
by strict and successful cost-
control, the board claimed an
appreciable increase in the per-
centage of gross profit to sales.
B.D. Mops and Buffs traded
profitably, although it doesn’t
appear to have contributed
much to group earnings.
Drawn-up at June 30, con-
solidated accounts show pre-
tax trading profit £87,076
fatter at £290,986, after allow-
ing £53,262 (up £731) for
depreciation; £19,736 (up
£1614) in investment-income,
rents, etc., taking pre-tax earn-
ings to £310,722. Provision for
taxation claimed £119,100 (up
£35,900) of this total to leave
net profit £52,790 stronger at
a record £191,622:
Parent and Subsidiary.
Re-
June Profit. —■, serves.
30, £ £ £
1954.. 111,111 8 p.c. = 72,240 91,785
Staff fund, £25,000 .. 66,785
1955.. 165,957 9 p.c. = 81,270 151,472
Tax overprovided, £2746 154,218
1956.. 167,419 9 p.c. = 81,270 240,367
Capital profit, £1251 .. 241,618
Added intangibles, £2lOB 239,510
Tax overprovided, £437.. 239,947
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1957.. 187,249 9 p.c. = 81,270 345,926
Tax overprovided, £9508 355,434
Preliminary exps. written
off, £ll4 .. .. 355,320
1958.. 138,832 9 p.c. = 81,270 412,882
Tax overprovided, £105.. 412,987
1959.. 191,622 9 p.c. = 81,270 523,339
Equal to 17.6 p.c. on the
bonus-enlarged capital, the
richer showing represented
21.2 p.c. on share-capital as it
stood at the end of the term
compared with 15.3, 20.7, 18.5
and 18.2 p.c. back to 1955.
A good demand for the
harvest-twines is indicated in
the current term and, given
reasonable weather conditions,
the group should be able to
turn-in -a satisfactory profit at
June 30 next. Looking a little
further ahead, a steady increase
in sales of jute yarns also
seems probable in view of the
expansion of the carpet-
manufacturing industry and
the possibility of additional
overseas manufacturers setting-
up carpet-plants in Australia.
Judging from the comfort-
able working-capital position,
the abundance of liquids and
the absence of borrowed
money, there doesn’t appear to
be any urgent need for fresh
capital and, if profit-margins
can be held, a 10 p.c. div.-rate
could easily replace the 9 p.c.
payout within the next year or
two:
' Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1958. 1959.
Paid capital .. £903,000 £903,000
Reserves .. 412,882 523,339
Outside interests 50 50
Overdraft . . 22,090
Creditors, etc. . . 144,350 207,555
Staff fund .. 19,343 17,147
Tax provision .. . 83,200 119,100
Pinal divs. . . 45,150 45,150
Inter-co. balances 36,120 36,120
£1,666,185 £1,851,461
Freehold .. 626,961 627,254
Plant, etc. .. 271,317 245,052
Investments .. 52,358 52,358
Stock . . .. 481,632 491,585
Debtors, etc. .. 233,137 274,458
Cash, bonds .. 780 160,754
£1,666,185 £1,851,461
Last term’s provision for
depreciation exceeded the out-
lay on fixed assets by £25,972,
while the extra £63,205 due to
creditors at balance-date more
than covered the increases in
book-debts (up £41,321) and
stocks (up £9953) flowing from
the higher turnover. The co.
was thus able, with the help of
undistributed profits, to elimi-
nate the overdraft and finish
the year with holdings of
cash, etc., £159,974 bigger at
£160,754, working - capital
growing by £86,429, to
£451,325, over the term.
At June 30 last consolidated
accounts showed a net tangible
backing of 14s. lOd. for each of
the 10s. ords., including the
bonus-shares, the scrip return-
ing 4.5 p.c. from a 9 p.c. div.
at an ex-rights 20s.
Draffin Everhot, Ltd.
TThe well-established Draffin
A Everhot, Ltd., supplies an
Australia-wide market with hot-
water systems, slow-combus-
tion stoves, etc., turned-out in
its several factories in and
around Melbourne. And a very
profitable occupation it has
proved to be, too, despite the
downward trend of earnings
over the last couple of years.
The public acquired a sharb-
interest in the business about
10 years ago, shortly after
Draffin Everhot was formed
as a holding co. to Draffin
Bros. Pty. Since then earnings,
at their lowest, have always
been sufficient to cover the
annual 10 p.c. div. at least
twice (providing a threefold
cover in three of the last five
years), and this on a share-
capital increased by one-for-
four and one-for-three par
offerings in 1953 and 1954
respectively.
To counter restrictions in its
home-State on the sale of
electric hot water-services —
the line on which the business
grew up—the co. has, over the
past decade, developed inter-
state markets, brought-out
kerosene-, gas- and oil-burning
hot-water systems and under-
taken the manufacture of sink-
heaters, low-level flushing-
cisterns and slow-combustion
cooking-ranges, the non-
electric lines opening-up
hitherto untapped markets in
rural areas unsuited to electri-
cally-powered appliances.
According to chairman
A. R. Draffin, it was a slacken-
ing of business activity in
these rural areas (first evident
towards the end of the 1958
term) that trimmed-back turn-
over and earnings during the
year to March 31 last and


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1812.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
F. S. WATSON, Manager.
Partnership
Owner partially equipped, con-
veniently situated Gold Mine will
transfer generous interest to person
or persons prepared to subscribe
comparatively small amount of
capital necessary to put mine back
into production. Mine has good
history and good future prospects.
Subscriptions could be part Tax
Deductible and Income is Tax Free.
For Personal References and mine
details apply
T. J. M. HIGGINS
Box 93, Clermont, Q.
offset gains arising from the
successful introduction of a
new, low-price, slow-combus-
tion cooker.
Down £3458 on the previous
term’s effort at £42,227, net
profit for the year was still
equal to a healthy 28.1 p.c.
on the £150,000 all-ord. capital,
net earnings coming-in at the
rate of 30.4 p.c. on share-
capital in the 1958 term and
31.6, 23, 30.1 and 21.5 p.c in
the four years back to 1954:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Re-
Mar. Profit. —,, serves.*
1952.. 18,172 10 p.c. = 9,000 46,850
Share-issue exps. written
off, £617 .. .. 46,233
1953.. 18,348 10 p.c. = 9,000 55,581
Unexplained addition,
£6549 .. .. 62,130
1954.. 24,185 10 = 11,250 75,065
Long-service leave provi-
sion, £4OOO .. .. 71,065
Share-issue exps. written
off, £5OO .. .. 70,565
1955.. 37,627 10 p.c. = 12,500 95,693
Unexplained addition,
£1425 97,118
1956.. 34,467 10 p.c. = 15,000 116,585
Tax pverprovided, £636 .. 117,221
1957.. 47,440 10 p.c. = 15,000 149,661
Tax overprovided, £2094 151,755
1958.. 45,685 10 p.c. = 15,000 182,440
Tax overprovided, etc.
£3717 .. .. .. 186,157
1959.. 42,227 10 p.c. = 15,000 213,384
* Subject to intangibles, £44,541 at
March 31, 1959.
The slimmer profit was
reckoned after providing an
extra £2386 (£23,741) for de-
preciation and £30,000 (down
£4000) for tax, the tax-pro-
ision being appropiate to a net
profit of around £50,4)00.
An additional factory was
erected last term on the co.’s
Fishermen’s Bend (Melb.)
property and work (since
completed) begun on a new
showroom-warehouse for the
Sydney branch. The steady
expansion of plant and build-
ings over recent years has
helped to keep the div.-rate
pegged at 10 p.c.; although
this hasn’t removed, necess-
arily, the possibility of further
fund-raising, over and above
the extra £53,228 raised on
mortage last term.
Still, finances were in pretty
good trim at March 31 last,
the balance-sheet showing
265. 6d. in current assets for
every £ against liabilities
(current and deferred) and
provisions:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1958. 1959.
Paid capital ..£150,000 £150,000
Reserves .. 182,440 213,384
Mortgages .. 50,414 103,642
Creditors, etc. .. 153,564 106,312
Tax provision .. 44,000 45,000
Dividends .. 15,000 15,000
£595,418 £633,338
Freeholds .. 99,763 115,587
Leaseholds .. 21,817 51,372
Plant, etc. .. 65,150 64,068
Stoek .. .. 174,557 155,976
Debtors .. .. 148,436 153,001
Cash, etc. .. 41,154 48,793
Intangibles .. 44,541 44,541
£595,418 £633,338
“Extremely keen” competition
continues to keep selling-costs
high, but the board expects
to counter both of these
problems through the modern
manufacturing techniques
employed at the new Mel-
bourne plant, along with the
reorganisation of marketing
throughout Australia and the
additional business brought in
by the new outlet in Sydney.
In any event, the co. has
got away to a good start in
the current year, with sales
in the first quarter up on those
of the same period last term,
an improvement which, in the
opinion of the directors,
“should be maintained.”
On present market-values
the 10s. ords. look reasonably
priced at around 205., the earn-
ings-yield at this price (on
last term’s figures) working-out
at a tempting 14 p.c. and the
div.-yield, from a 10 p.c. distri-
bution, at 5 p.c. There is no
shortage of net tangibles,
either, each 10s share enjoying
a cover of 21s. 3d.
New England Antimony
■piRMER prices for antimony
concentrates, coupled With
the eventual achievement of
almost continuous production,
enabled New England Anti-
mony Mines, N.L., to turn in
a trading-profit last term for
the first time since the co. began
working the Magword mine
(Guyra, N.S.W.) early in 1954.
Activities in past years
were hampered by shortages
of both water and working-
capital, the former being
remedied by the construction
of a new dam and the latter by
mortgage-loans from Common-
wealth Mining Investments
(Aust.), Ltd., and the raising
of fresh share-capital.
A sharp fall in antimony
prices during the 1958 term
added to the co.’s problems,
but negotiations with the
smelter-owner (in Sydney) and
with the Federal Government
brought about some improve-
ment last term, the average
price per long-ton unit rising
by 3s. 4d. to 28s. 6d. over the
year. The co. is now awaiting
a report from the Tariff Board
on the question of assistance
to producers of antimony and
antimony products.
During the year to March
31 last N.E. Antimony treated
7449 tons of ore (up 2533 tons)
for 1145 tons of concentrates
(up 507 tons) and 6\ tons of
prill ore. Sales of concen-
trates and ore brought in
£105,697 tup £56,333), concen-
trates on hand at balance-date
being taken into account at an
estimated realisation value of
£l6OO (down £900).
Up £21,405 at £70,222,
mining and realisation charges,
nevertheless, reflected the
economies of steady produc-
tion and, with royalties and
mine overheads, fell by
approximately 10s. to £9 8s 7d.
per ton of ore mined. No
provision for tax was neces-
sary, thanks to accumulated
losses, the £7147 profit being
written after allowing £BOB4
for depreciation (nil in 1958)
and covering development
expenditure of £12,125 (up
£6409). A loss of £3809 was
incurred in the 1958 term.
The nature of the orebody
prevents an accurate estimation
of ore-reserves but, according
to the mine manager, “it would
appear reasonable to assume
that there is at least 18 months’
ore in sight.”
At March 31 last, current
liabilities of £6646 were covered
by current assets of £15,926,
fixed assets figuring at
£72,762, the mine property,
development, etc., at £74,972
intangibles at £5470 and the
accumulated p. and 1. debit at
£16,916. The loan from Com-
monwealth Mining Investments
was reduced by £BOOO, to
£12,000, over the year, C.M.I.
having the option while its loan
is unpaid, and in any event,
until January, 1961, of taking-
up 20,000 f.-p. shares of 7s. 6d.
at Is. 6d. each. Present paid
capital is £167,400 in 7s. 6d.
contribs. paid to 6s.
The scrip changed hands
last week at Is. 2d.
South Alligator Uranium
/Continuous production of
uranium oxide by South
Alligator Uranium, N.L., is
scheduled to begin around the
middle of September and the
designed output of one ton of
oxide every seven days should
be achieved during October.
Construction of the co/s
treatment-plant at the Rock-
hole (N.T.) mine is expected
to be completed by the end of
August.
South Alligator has con-
tracted to supply the U.K.
Atomic Energy Authority with
uranium oxide to a total value
of approximately £1,150,000,
with deliveries to be completed
by early 1962.
Uranium Exports
■yUiTH an eye to the probable
weakness of uranium
markets facing local producers
on expiry of their contracts
with the U.K. Atomic Energy
Authority, the Federal Govern-
ment has agreed to allow
exports of limited quantities of
uranium oxide to countries
other than the U.K. and U.S.
The last of the current con-
tracts between Australian pro-
ducers and the U.K. Authority
is expected to run-out some
time in 1965.
It is understood that, under
the new arrangement, total
shipments to any one country
from all local producers will
be restricted to 25001 b. of
uranium oxide a year, with
individual sales limited to
2501 b. The first export-licence
has gone to Mary Kathleen
Uranium, Ltd., for the supply
of an unstated quantity of
uranium oxide to Japan.
M.K.U., incidently, is con-
tinuing to pile-up profits at a
spectacular rate. Gross revenue
for the six months to June 30
last was £2,831,543 and net
profit £1,459,836. Pref. divs.
and provision for loan repay-
ments took £744,820 'of this
total, the balance of the profit
(£715,016) representing a
shade over 2s. 6d. on each of
the co.’s 5,683,678 2s. 6d. ords.


SAVE
£5OO to
£lOOO P.A.
IN TAX
This Year and
Each Year
for the Next 5 Years
A strictly Limited Offer of
Outstanding Tax Savings
Opportunity to Recipients
of
Higher-than-average
Incomes
Particulars by Personal
Interview. For Appoint-
ment, phone—•
V ' -
D. M. CLARKE
& COMPANY
Tax Consultants
11 Randle Street, Sydney.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
City-workers are grumbling
about the oppressive heat
and gardeners about the
drought, but to most people this
exceptional summer is a
delight. The long period of
unbroken good weather is too
blessed a rarity to be con-
demned for its minor incon-
veniences.
All the major sporting
occasions have passed without
serious interruption or disaster,
and the season has been a
bumper one for the innumer-
able lesser matches, tourna-
ments and regattas. Also for
the romantic, if faintly madcap,
exploits that people get up to
during the holiday period, like
conducting an elephant over
the Alps or dashing from
Marble Arch to the Arc de
Triomphe in forty minutes.
This summer, it is revealed,
is the driest and sunniest for
38 years. The mind accepts the
challenge and, astonishingly,
memories bob to the surface.
The concentration on Warren
Bardsley’s face, as, during a
knock-up, he assessed the turf
at Park Avenue. Hendry’s
open cricket-bag with Arthur
Mailey’s caricature on top (but
no recollection of how the
wide-eyed schoolboy contrived
to reach the dressing-room
door). Gregory’s facial simi-
larity to the French master.
His, and Macdonald's, huge,
earthy pit beside the wicket at
Headingley. Warwick Arm-
strong’s tummy, patriarchal
arrogance and calculated lazi-
ness in the field. And, most of
all, Pellew’s grace and classical
fleetness in the outfield.
Why are memories dim of
Macartney and sharp of Carter,
the wicketkeeper? How is it
that one can name the Aus-
tralian team and not the Eng-
lish, except for Lionel Tenny-
son, who made a half-century
(then a mountainous total for
an Englishman) one-handed;
for Ernest Tyldesley, who got
knocked-out; and for J. W. H.
T. Douglas, so unique initially?
It is remarkable that, despite
later and more mature experi-
ences as a Test spectator,
including that fabulous con-
temporary in age, Don Brad-
man, how vividly these
memories of 1921 stand out.
Was it a great age in cricket,
or did it just seem to be one?
Hire-purchase Compendium
The financial world is in-
debted to the authors of “Hire-
Purchase in a Free Society,”
published by the Institute of
Economic Affairs for this new
and important industry is
poorly documented.
Their pronouncement, “it is
time for the tradition-bound
banks to follow the example
of Australian banks in financ-
ing hire-purchase and play their
part in the expansion of the
economy,” seems to have been
noticed, for, within six months,
all but one (the aristocratic
Coutts) had, or was about to
have a substantial stake in
finance-companies.
The second edition of the
book brings the statistics up-
td-date. Particular attention is
given to recent developments
“in the light of discussions
about the need for further
government action to avoid in-
flation, to protect depositors
and to ensure high standards of
practice by finance houses.”
Experience since 1957
(mainly price - stability)
strengthens the case against
using hire-purchase controls as
an anti-inflationary device. If,
argue the authors, hire-pur-
chase aggravates the inflation
produced by other causes, the
remedy is to remove the
causes. That is to say, Govern-
ments .should rely on general
monetary and fiscal policy to
regulate the level of economic
activity and_ avoid inflation.
They also advocate better
public-relations in the industry
and wider discussion in the
press, so that the public may
rely on its own judgment, and
Government action to protect
depositors’ money may be mini-
mised. In other words, they
feel that better financial
awareness will lessen the
danger of the unscrupulous or
irresponsible upstart.
Other recommendations to
finance-houses include a warn-
ing against excessive competi-
tion on terms, the greater use
of credit-bureaux to check all
but the smallest transactions,
refusal to enter into collective
agreements on charges, com-
missions and terms, efforts to
diminish the power of dealers
to demand commissions, and a
firm attitude towards de-
faulters and laggard payers.
Although the bad - debt
record is remarkably good
(below 0.1 per cent.), the
authors believe that, in its rapid
expansion, the industry may
have gone too far in its in-
dulgence towards the customer.
They consider that the term
“hire-purchase” should be
reserved for repossessable
merchandise and not for holi-
days, education, house-repairs
and similar services ; and they
stand out firmly against too
soft an attitude towards the
irresponsible customers, advo-
cating a stricter attitude by the
County Courts towards re-
possession.
Rebels’ Revels
Theatre Workshop, after
years of precarious struggle at
Stratford, E., in the cause of
working-class drama, is in the
money. Shelagh Delaney’s “A
Taste of Honey” is doing so
well that it has transferred
from Wyndham’s to the
Criterion to make way for
Brendan Behan’s extravaganza,
“The Hostage.”
It is a peculiar alliance, this
tying of the Ends, East and
West. It is incongruous, like
Fortnum and Mason’s taking-
over a fish-and-chip shop, or
the Garrick accommodating
the Lower Bethnal Green
Darts Club. On the one hand,
there is Joan Littlewood, who
is inspired by Left Wing tradi-
tions of the Group Theatre
(Stanislavsky and all that) and
on the other is Donald Albery,
son and successor of the
urbane Sir Bronson.
The result is that English
audiences are paying West End
prices (including the exorbitant
Is. for a programme) to see
an Irish play about the 1.R.A.,
written by an ex-member of
that rabidly anti-English
organisation, who because of
his intermittent bursts of con-
viviality in public, has acquired
some notoriety.
To the discerning playgoer,
the evening is an infuriating
one, not least because of the
talents dissipated and the op-
portunities thrown away.
Instead of the discipline,
cohesion and doctrinal impulse
of the Group Theatre that
might fairly be expected, the
affair is grotesque, immature
and amateurish. Until Miss
Littlewood learns to curb her
wilder improvisatory notions
and to sacrifice flamboyance,
however striking in itself, for
unity of pattern, her methods
and the producer’s art must
remain at variance.
Mr. Behan’s attempts at
Aristophanic humor and
satirical comment are more
prolific than incisive; his
bawdiness is unrelated and his
jokes second-hand. Yet when,
as in the middle, he drops
fantasy and turns to drama
there is a compelling half-hour
which cries-out for develop-
ment.
This is where the English
conscript-hostage, bewildered
at the causes of the age-old
bitterness (“but all that hap-
pened so long ago”), is be-
friended by the Irish servant-
girl. In an instant, the whole
violent, illogical and crazed
background is seen in clear
perspective ; and here, signifi-
cantly, the acting is beautiful
and the production simple and
true.
But, excepting for moments
(the witty burlesque of all
stage I.R.A. officers is one), the
rest is embarrassingly facetious,
especially the final curtain,
when the assassinated con-
script rises to sing “The Bells
of Hell Go Ting-a-ling-ling”
and to join in a jigging
ensemble of conventional
Oirishry.


Muscles by Pipeline
Lifters of the Lifts
By GEORGE ANGUS
Through a couple of years of
going-up to the third-floor of an
ancient George Street, Sydney,
fire-trap, since replaced by a gleam-
ing modernistic tower of plateglass,
plastics and pastel paint, I always, at first,
felt guilty sympathy for the greying
custodian of the building’s antediluvian
lift.
In fact, more often than not I climbed
half-a-dozen flights of rickety staircases
to save his venerable back the labor I
imagined to be involved in hauling me
—and the lift—by sheer muscle-power
applied to the rope running in through
the roof and out through the floor of
his birdcage. It was that sort of lift.
And then, when I did sympathise, my
lift-hauling mate broke it to me gently
—the labor involved was really rather
less than might appear. All he did in
gently tugging the rope, he explained,
was to operate a lever which controlled
a valve which in turn released or shut-
off the hydraulic pressure that supplied
the real muscles to hoist the lift.
And thereby I discovered one of those
little-known sidelights of what makes
the city tick.
Somewhere in the early 1600’s a
budding scientist of the day named
Pascal discovered a scientific principle
which he expressed: “Fluid under pres-
sure exerts equal pressure upon equal
areas of surface.”
Which might prompt one to ask, “So
what?”
It certainly doesn’t sound a discovery
calculated to set the world on fire. But
in it lies the key whereby man is able to
multiply infinitely his own somewhat
inadequate muscle-power. It gave him
the application of hydraulic power that
enables Bst. Joe Blow to lift the front
of his two-ton Juggermobile a foot off
the ground to change a tyre with no more
physical exertion than he’d use to sink
a pint of suds.
The principle is, broadly and not too
technically, something thus: If you take
a pipe with a cross-section of one square-
inch, fill it with water and shove on one
end with a force of 101 b., then you have
a force of 101 b. per square-inch acting
every which way (as the Yanks say),
Bring this pressurised fleid to bear then
against a piston in a cylinder of, say,
1000 square-inches area and you have,
by courtesy of Mr. Pascal’s discovery,
101 b. a square-inch exerted against every
one of the 1000 square-inches—which
means the piston has a force of 10,0001 b.
shoving it along. And that is a useful
force. It is just the shot for operating
freight- or passenger-lifts, goods-hoists
or “whips,” woolpresses and heavyweight
doors such as some banks go in for.
Useful, too, to boost the pressure in
sprinkler fire-protection systems,
All of which is why, about 250 years
after Mr. Pascal made his discovery, a
bunch of Sydney’s better-heeled citizens
• decided to turn that discovery to account,
The result was the Sydney and
Suburban Hydraulic Power Company,
authorised by special Act of Parliament
(June 24, 1889) to provide a public supply
of hydraulic power and also, if they
wished, an electricity-supply,
They never got round to doing any-
thing about the electricity-supply, which
wasn’t rated very highly as a business
proposition in those days—although,
under the original Act, they still could
set-up opposition to the County Council
today, and the same Act provided that
any dividends over. 10 p.c. had to be
divided equally between the Sydney City
Council and shareholders.
But the Hydraulic Power Company
they started is still going strong—round
its 70th birthday.
The Hydraulic Power Co. began in
a fairly small way (though capital by
1899 was £112,500, a tidy sum in those
days) on a few acres of ground they
bought in what is now the Sydney suburb
of Waterloo—right on the edge of the
present Moore Park golf-course. A con-
siderable part of the staff was an office-
boy who was paid four-shillings a week ;
they shared him with another company,
each contributing two-bob a week of his
screw. This was vouched for by the office-
boy, who retired only a few years ago.
Reason for picking a site so compara-
tively far from the centre of the city,
where their power-consumers would be,
was the need for a reliable supply of
water. The few acres of ground at
Waterloo included an acre or so of
natural lake, which, till then, had been
a popular picnic-spot.
The hydraulic power began flowing in
1890, when a steam pump was installed
by the lake at Waterloo to pump water
to a 150,000-gallon overhead storage-
tank at the main power-plant in the
city—in Pier Street, up by the Markets.
At Pier Street a battery of steam boilers
and pumps built the water-pressure up
to 7501 b. per square-inch and sent this
pressurised water coursing out to con-
sumers through a network of pipes laid
mainly in the city’s footpaths.
Basically, that’s how the system still
functions today—with refinements.
As the network of consumers extended,
new mains were being laid continuously
up to 1911. Since then there have been
no great extensions. The network now
has about 50 miles of high-pressure, cast-
iron mains running under Sydney streets.
There are two booster sub-stations, one
at Woolloomooloo and one at Pyrmont.
Over this 50-mile hook-up of pipes,
power is supplied to operate still today
some 500 machines ranging from fancy
bank-doors to the big freight-lifts that
can accommodate a fully-loaded, heavy
lorry.
In 1923 the original old steam pump
at Waterloo was pensioned-off after
30-odd years’ service and replaced by
an electric unit that can deliver 24,000
gallons of water an hour from Waterloo
to the Pier Street station.
And in 1952 Pier Street was brought
up to date. The old steam boilers, with
{Continued on page 49)


Miss Brockel
By HAL PORTER
The slabby walls sur-
rounding the 18 6 0
windows of the two-
storied small shop are
blue, mad blue. The door,
shut, is encrusted with blue.
Painted on the warped panels
and posts are lopsided sprays
of sulphur-yellow roses and
tarry butterflies with fringed
wings. The name of the shop,
Floros Ebudeu, leaf-entwined,
curves above. Segments of
gaudy and silver papers pasted
inside the cracked and bubbly
glass of one window make the
words: \
MISS BROCKEL.
A rtist. Fancy Goods.
Dressmaker. -
This sign has been there for
years, maybe for ever ; but the
messages written on envelopes
or scraps of wallpaper and
attached by jujubes are corn
stantly different, things of a
day. The handwriting, peaked
and singular, is of the same
century as the arched windows
and the carved wooden capi-
tals of the doorposts and the
foot-eaten bluestone step and
the vivid, unopenable door.
Miss Brocket denies that she
is the recipient of charity. If
this lie has been circulated it
is unfounded for, apart from
the fact that she has Relatives
of Means, last week Miss
Brocket had at least six pictures
accepted by the Royal
A cademy.
This likeness is of Miss
Brockel as an innocent child.
She was the adored,
at that happy time,
of substantial and
God-fearing parents.
The daguerrotype is
slightly faded.
The door is closed
merely to prevent the
spoliation by in-
clement weather, or
dust, of Miss
Brockel’s valuable
art-works and mer-
chandise. Intending
customers are re-
quested to knock.
Miss Brocket has
never, in her long
career, hit any child
or,- indeed, any of
God’s creatures. She
is famed for being
good and kind to the
little ones.
Behind these mes-
sages is a rubble of
torn lace, scrap-
books, dolls’ houses
made of match-
boxes, tarnished hat-
pi n s flowering
crazily from pin-
cushions, dirty marzi-
pan mice with eyes,
rag dolls asprawl
like drunkards.
T\RAWING - PINNED
to the rear walls
are Miss Brockel’s
paintings. These en-
chant passers -by
more than the mes-
sages and toys and unhealthy
needlework, for it is quite likely
that, depicted on a shoe-box
lid, an old meat-dish or a tin-
tray, one will find among the
overrunning tiny figures of a
pigmenty streetscape a figure
which is almost certainly one-
self.
There is St. Mary’s school-
ground, children clambering
and chasing among knolls of
bricks with which men in
berets are building a new wall.
One man, miniature and
important, with legs astraddle
on the loftiest rampart, is sil-
houetted against the agitated
sky. A nun, the wind in her
veils, claps hands in a ring-a-
rosy of minute clapping girls.
There is even a barking fox-
terrier, a speck of black and
white.
There is Victoria Street —the
beach at the end wriggling with
bathers. It is summer; the
palms along the street seem to
gasp behind their fans. Bril-
liant motor-cars rest empty
outside houses in which half-
clothed people must be sipping
iced lemon-drinks behind
blinds. In the foreground a
few blackened men spray tar
from black watering-cans onto
the road. A sandalled boy, a
towel over his shoulder, hangs
one bare leg over his bicycle
and watches.
There is a self-conscious
Sunday crowd at a band-
concert among coprosma and
lawns and cockscomb; there
is the fish-and-chip shop
Friday-frantic in a veil of blue
smoke; there is a steamer
loading wheat under the El
Greco intensity of arc-lamps ;
there is a Boy Scout parade, a
clutter of unemployed, a street-
corner violinist elbowing tone-
lessly for nothing to an
audience of urchins.
Miss Brockel’s pictures are
her crown, the emblem of her
queenhood.
TTntil noon each Saturday
there is always a grocery-
burdened child loitering in
terror and ecstasy and derision
before Floros Ebudeu, some-
times tipping with a finger felt
to be sacriligious the blue
scales or congealed bleedings
of paint.
One child after another
enters the street; scuttles along
afraid to tread on the rusted
cellar-grates of forsaken inns,
afraid to peep into the cob-
webbed inferno of the tumble-
down smithy, afraid especially
to discover itself alone in this
one of all the streets of this
cemetery port. Here the
snivelling of the sea under
decayed wharves cannot be
heard even faintly.
Each child, having panted
its scrap of adoration, sud-
denly scorns itself and runs,
shrilling, “Old Dotty! Old
Dotty! Silly old Dotty!” It


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
SLACKS ON &
, O'SUL UVAM
ip PTY LTD i
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS Sc OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Between
Ourselves
--Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always'
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
seems that there is always,
until noon on Saturday, a child
fawning before the scorching
blue of the boards and the
delirium of the windows, a
child nimble and vicious,
although expecting annihilation,
escaping from the street which
is to all children limitless, with
a core that flares tormentingly,
held together by its paint and
some alchemy they cannot
comprehend.
On Sunday afternoons men
and women, who have long
ago convinced themselves that
they did the same when young,
hear their children’s voices
tugging, “Can we —may we—
please go past Old Dotty’s?
Please, Mum m a. Please,
Dadda.”
Clean, squeaky-shoed, talking
with callous clarity, the chil-
dren know themselves part of
a sauntering which uses Old
Dotty’s street in preference to
all others that maze from the
modern town to the Sunday
sights . . . fishermen half-asleep
against bollards, coal-barges,
seagulls, rusty dredges, the
morgue and time-ball tower
built by convicts,' and, occa-
sionally, a steamer drooling
foreign slime from its flanks.
It is rarely that anyone sees
Miss Brockel herself.
Sometimes a drunken Lascar
—lost at the hour when the
page of' night stirs exhaust-
edly, about to lift over —reels
with swaying eyes to her win-
dow where he almost discovers
some freak arranging strings
of poisoned beads and macabre
animals of flannel by candle-
light. And although it is pos-
sible for him to see every
idiot’s morsel of merchandise
and the minutest thread and
fly-spot of color on each
morsel, it is difficult to see her
clearly ... a hand of some
unmentionable white sub-
stance ... an ectoplasm of
neck on which sprouts a tail
of sickly hairs ... It is as
though the glass were feet
thick, transparently curdled,
and she some horror of a
larger imperfection stirring in
it as the candle-flame stirs
in it.
Sometimes in flagrant day-
light, but only along the night-
mare perspective of a lane
fouled by dolichos, children
perceive a slow crab of colors.
Paralysed immediately, they
gape until they can squeeze out
voice enough to squall “Old
Dotty! Silly old Dotty!”
has seen her closely?
She seems, even to men
and women, to be always at
a distance. In the distance a
multi - colored shapelessness
wavers along a corrugated-iron
fence, or among the lumps of
a seamen’s wrecked coffee-
palace. She is the centre of
a circle in which nothing
moves, where rank horehound
and deadly nightshade have
conquered hitching-posts and
house-deserted chimneys.
On the circumference old
men gobble, “Es thet thet Mess
Brock-ull?” and spit ; while
spoiled girls, clawing like
monkeys, chant meanly,
“Sil-lee ol’ Dot-tee! Sil-lee ol’
Dot-tee! Sil-lee ol’ Dot-tee!”
Few recall her or speak of her
until she is seen, far-off as
youth, familiar as death and
fascinating as terror.
Only on Saturday mornings
and Sunday afternoons is
there any premeditation about
her and then it is rather about
her shop ; a child sinning into
the loneliest and most for-
bidden street, a child grizzling,
“Aw, do let’s walk along
Dotty’s street. Please, please.”
Sunday-bathed and arro-
gant, although aware uneasily
that Bible-Jehovah gestures no
golden thunder of blessing
over Miss Brockel’s street, the
children and their shepherds,
group trailing group, talk dis-
tinctly. This troubles them;
they are aware that they thus
reassure themselves that She
cannot hear and that, even
if She hear, crouching wasp-
like in her nest of boards and
glass, it does not matter. But
is She listening? Is She
actually inside pricking dirty
stitches into a garment that
nothing but a baby cretin could
wear, is She inside and
listening?
Everybody wonders this.
Everybody thrills at the
notion that directly behind the
door huddles a creature power-
ful as a witch. Everybody
wonders what would happen
should they kick at the door.
Nobody wonders how she
obtains money, food, clothing,
the scraps from which she
devises her unsold wares and
her maggot - vital paintings.
Nobody considers that she has
a past and will be of the future.
No. She exists, without needs
or desire or mind ; she is not
mortal nor human; she is
past - less and future - less,
created when things were first
created, to go only when all
things have gone to the dark
oven.
Or has she already been
packed there, has she already
died, time out of mind ago,
and become her own ghost-
lier shop her grave and monu-
ment and shrine?
They worship in sneers at
a shrine whose reliques are
those things children are
always wishing to make on wet
afternoons but never have,
whose reliques grown-ups
recognise as the things they
always wished to make but
never will ; they come, they
worship in sneers, they pass.
They taunt from the distance
they or she can never lessen,
and in their cry, which irri-
tates the soul in their throats,
is the under-cry of those
conscious of ignorance derid-
ing omniscience, the under-cry
of the first man gibbering at
the first moon.
They jeer. They pass.
And she?
And she?
'T'hough no-one notices it,
as no-one notices the boot-
laceman outside a Luna Park,
there is a tree outside Miss
Brocket's. It is a tree the birds
adore ; twigs and leaves are
always whitened and clotted by
their excited droppings.
She has never seen the tree.
Or has she?
One day, one day, she sees
it from her attic window and
the maddened birds in its laura
gabbling at the burgundy-
splashed sky, feeding on sunset.
That day, one day, a nail
crawls out, a board slips on
the blue wall. A board slips,
there becomes a tiny hole. A
skinny wand of notes strikes
through the hole and pokes
another pink tiny hole in the
floor. She, Jemima Adelaide
Brockel, sees this, but not
singly, not merely this: the
moment is instantly not new,
is instantly of the past; at the
same time it is not, to her, of
past or present. Each moment
is, very clearly, one that has
had no precise inception and
will have no finish —the wand
has been there always.
Startled suddenly by the
hysterics of the birds, the wind
uncurls and bumps against the
wall. Immediately . . . after
an eternity . . . the wand is
snatched back and taken away
over the sea.
So.
Down below and out there
are happenings. She sees and
hears them all. The pier-steps
are crystalled with salt;
raspberry - colored sea - things
are suckled on the green-black
velvet of piles. A lustrous
cloud is standing like a mother
in the sky—Virgin Mary in
galleries hung with wine. Miles
away a bicycle-bell chimes (or
tfmps . . . how prettily the
slender spinning creature
chirps) and a tennis-ball pads
animally on asphalt.
Leaves tickle each other. An
eyelash falls. A voice, from
some cool faraway - where,
seems to sing as at the begin-
ning of an arietta, “Le-il-ah!
Le-il-ah!” Oh, cool . . . cool
. . . And yet there are deserts
showing bracelets and
brooches of bone, deserts the
color of lions . . . giraffes . . .
(Continued on page 49)


Travelling-Man
By ROY THEODORE
Rostova was a big, slack
man. Slopping chins
and burlaps of fish-flesh
white; pale podges of
hands that even handling the
bolt of satin seemed too un-
healthily busy. The only color
in the face was the blackness
of starved blood-vessels in tfje
skin beneath the eyes. He
moistened fat lips with tobacco-
browned tongue continuously.
Jamieson, waiting, wanted
to say “Get on with it! Take
it or leave it.”
Instead, he said, trying to
force warmth into his voice:
“Well, Bert —a good lot, isn’t
it?”
Rostova ignored him, eyes
now following one of his
factory girls, a buxom lass
with 8-to-5 bundy-sullenness
stamped all over her carelessly-
pasted face. He looked again
at the satin spread over the
cutter.
“Good lot!” he echoed. His
sharp laugh became a spluttery
coughing. “What makes that
old fool Friedman think
women don’ sweat too?”
He tugged savagely at the
cloth until it tore.
“It’s a good price,” Jamie-
son said tightly.
“Good for Friedman. You
tell him I think about it if he
comes down a bit.”'
“You know he won’t.”
“Then I’ll see what Sampson
can do. Mr. High-and-mighty
Friedman’s getting too damn’
pricey altogether. He ain’t the
only one in the supply busi-
ness, you know.”
“Okay,” said Jamieson,
wrapping up the bolt. “I’ll
tell him that.”
He was on his way out when
Rostova called him back.
“Where you stayin’ this
time?”
“The Kings.”
“Yes . . .? Like I say, the
old fool’s making too much
dough. Even his salesmen get
to stay at The Kings.” He
drew slowly on the cigarette,
letting Jamieson wait for it.
“Come over my place tonight
—I got a party. Dames or
cards, take your pick. And
we’ll talk about this sweat-rag
again tomorrow.”
It was the routine. Part of
the game. Jamieson cursed as
he drove to the hotel.
“Nothing much,”
Rostova assured him
. ... "Only trouble
was the blood.”
'T'he girl had the cool pale-
ness of thin moonlight on
water. Dark, attractive eyes
well-spaced in a wide, open
face. Tall, a sensitively
moulded body beneath white
lace and pencil skirt. As she
moved Jamieson’s earlier
thought came back to him:
a tigress on the leash of
orthodoxy.
The hotel was designed for
country patrons. In the city’s
heat the lounge was an oasis
of dark panelling . . . Ameri-
can-leather armchairs and
settees, potted ferns and two
staghorns . . . lilies in water-
bowls, comfortingly conserva-
tive oils of ducks and sunsets,
cows at a stream . . . cut-
glass decanters and glasses on
the two tables and above the
writing-desk. It was air-
conditioning by suggestion.
“So you’ve come back, Mr.
Jamieson.” An amused lilt,
yet with the faintest initialling
of something else ; something
else that, clearer, might have
been a schoolgirl’s breathless-
ness. Jamieson couldn’t be
sure.
“Yes, Clare, back again.
Booking okay?” -
She handed him his key.
“You’re in seventeen, the one
you had last time.” The eyes
could have been giving him a
cue, but he couldn’t tell, and
he held the keys, standing
before her awkwardly.
A little man came up.
“We’re still having trouble
with that tap in the Private,
Miss Stevenson.”
“Yes, I know,” she said.
“Mr. Norris is in the bottle
department. He’ll be there in
a moment.”
After the man left Jamieson
said “I’m sorry I didn’t get a
chance to say goodbye
properly last time.”
“It was only a fleeting visit,
wasn’t it?” She smiled. It
didn’t matter.
“You got my note?”
She nodded, but added noth-
ing. She was waiting for him,
and Jamieson felt unsettled,
unsure.
“Do you think we could
have dinner together?”
“No,” she said softly. Again
she seemed to be going to add
nothing, but at last she said
“I’ll be working here until
eleven-thirty tonight.”
“I could meet you then.”
A smile started, and then
the pale coolness smoothed it
out again.
“If you want to, Geoff.”
A fter dinner he drove to
Rostova’s: a massive old
structure, with wide verandas,
near the river. Light shafted
from the windows and from a
row of open French-doors
"down one side. There were
other cars in the grounds.
Rostova came to the front-
door himself as Jamieson rang.
He had a glass in one hand
and was chuckling past a
cigar at something that had
been said inside. He kept on
chuckling as he saw who it
was, and merely fanned with
the fingers of his free hand,
beckoning Jamieson in.
The card-players were in one
corner of-Jhe lounge. They
didn’t bother looking up.
Without asking, Rostova
poured a hefty whisky and
gestured at the table. Jamie-
son flooded the drink from
the decanter.
“It’s a nice place, all right,
Bert.”
“Yeh, yeh.” He made no
move to introduce Jamieson
to anyone. There were a' few
women about and a couple
gazed interestedly at Jamieson.
Like the men,, most of them
seemed to be of Rostova’s
race. They didn’t seem to
mind being left for the cards.
The sullen girl from Ros-
tova’s factory moved across to
them.
“What is it, Gwen?” asked
Rostova. His words were
thick.
“You didn’t tell me every-
one here was gonna be .
you know, not Australian.”
“Yeah?”
“Honestly, I feel awful;
they don’t want to talk to
me. And I can’t understand
them when they do.”
He laughed. “I can’t under-
stand some of them myself.
But don’ you worry, don’ you
(Continued on page 44)


All Hands To the Pumps
Half-a-century ago a favorite way
of keeping green the memory of
a notable citizen was to erect a
drinking-fountain in his honor.
These ornate monuments, complete with
cast-iron drinking-cups, were a feature
of most cities, serving the dual purpose
of honoring the departed worthies and
providing self-service refreshment for
thirsty citizens. There is no record in
Australia of their ever having been used
to dispense any drink other than water,
though in England and on the Continent
it was apparently once customary on
festive occasions so to order things that
the fountains “ran with wine.”
Some of these monuments still remain,
usually without cups and often without
water, and the only free drinks obtain-
able in most cities are those provided
by “bubblers,” which are traps for the
unwary and tend, if anything, to dis-
courage the drinking of water.
Complaints were recently made in Mel-
bourne about the removal of these free
thirst-quenching facilities from railway-
stations, it being darkly hinted that this
was the result of a compact between the
railway authorities and the owners of
slot - machine soft - drink dispensaries
which are being installed on the plat-
forms. Sydney railway-stations have not
yet been invaded by this particular variety
of mod. con., but no doubt the march of
civilisation will soon remedy that.
A lthough the serve-yourself soft-drink
dispensers haven’t opened their cam-
paign in Sydney yet, the possibility of
slot-machine marketing of two other
liquid commodities is causing ripples in
appropriate circles. N. S. Wales Milk
Board chairman J. A. Ferguson is recom-
mending to the board the installation of
milk-vending machines at suitable sites
in Sydney. While in London at an
international dairy conference he was
impressed by the development of these
vending-machines of which he says 1200
are already in operation in Britain, with
7000 more on order. These machines
give customers a choice of several
flavors ; some of the more obliging ones
even give change. Ferguson also saw
machines which served hot soup when
plied with the appropriate fee.
It is to be hoped he merely threw in
this remark as an item of general interest
and that it didn’t imply that he was
going to recommend that his organisa-
tion should also sell soup. The possi-
bility of the Milk Board having a
monopoly of the distribution of soup
in N.S.W. is too horrifying to contem-
plate, though even worse would be the
sprouting of a separate Soup Board.
Think of all the demarcation disputes
with the Meat Board and Water Board,
not to mention prosecutions for home-
stewing and the crime-wave that would
inevitably follow the emergence of sly-
broth shops!
But as far as milk is concerned there
seems no reason why the scheme
shouldn’t be given a trial. A. W. Thomp-
son, secretary of the Milk Carters’ Union,
who might have been expected to raise
objections, seems to be all for it. He
holds that the innovation would mean
increased sales of milk because the instal-
lation of the machines on railway-stations
and similar sites would lead to “impulse-
buying.” Far from fearing the effect
of the machines on employment, he sees
them creating employment as they would
have to be filled and maintained and,
in spite of them, “people will still want
their milk delivered every morning.”
nTHE suggestion that self-service petrol-
A pumps should be installed in
Sydney has had a much less favorable
reception. The proposal has been made
by a Melbourne concern, which is asking
permission to put-up a test-pump in
Sydney. The system—as known in Vic-
toria —involves placing a slot-machine on
the wall of the service-station. The
machine will take any number of 25.-
pieces up to 10. The motorist then feeds
petrol from a normal pump into his tank
until the quantity paid for has been
taken, when the pump is automatically
cut-off.
The application for permission to
operate in N.S.W. was made to Minister
for Labor and Industry J. J. Maloney,
who seems to have passed the buck to
the Mines Department which for some
curious reason administers the regula-
tions relating to “inflammable liquids.”
Mines Minister Simpson says his
officers are investigating the fire-hazard
in self-service pumps. The chief danger
envisaged is the possibility of spillage
and subsequent ignition through someone
dropping a cigarette-butt or a lighted
match. The Minister says his depart-
ment was already studying this safety-
problem when the application was passed
on to it; investigations had been going
on for two years. His officers were
examining an American device designed
to prevent spillage ; their report would
be available soon.
According to Mr. Maloney, he referred
the application to the Mines Department
purely for the purposes of getting a
certificate of safety. However, he added
that if the certificate was granted the
pumps would be restricted to the
ordinary trading-hours, unless the Shops
and Factories Act was amended. He
gave no hint of any intention to support
an amendment, though obviously the
certificate would be useless if the
machines were to be restricted to the
hours when ordinary service was
available.
It is quite right that the safety-angle
should be thoroughly examined, but it
should not be used as an excuse to
conceal other motives for opposing the
machines. The major oil-companies and
the N.S.W. Service Station Association
have also been quoted as feeling that
the fire-hazard of the self-serve pumps
is too great. On the other hand, Sydney’s
Fire Chief, H. W. Pye, according to
S. M. “Herald,” considers the danger
would be “very slight,” and the Fire and
Accident Underwriters’ Association of
Australia has approved their use at
normal rates of premium.
"piRE-HAZARD or not, there is no doubt
about the real reason. Shop Assist-
ants’ Union secretary O’Dea is against
these newfangled contraptions. He sees
them as “a snide move to get around
the laws on petrol-selling.” As usual,
Ernie is looking the situation squarely
in the face with half an eye while the
rest of his vision is fixed (quite properly)
on what he considers are the interests
of his union members. The snideness of
the move depends on whether petrol-
selling (or sardine-selling or mousetrap-
selling) is designed primarily to fulfil a
public need or to provide a job for
petrol-sellers (or sardine-sellers or. mouse-
trap-sellers). Several years ago the
N.S.W. Industrial Commission recom-
mended unrestricted selling-hours for
petrol, but under pressure from the trade-
union movement the Cahill Government
rejected the advice. The argument used
(as in the case of opposition to any
extension of general shopping-hours) was
that longer hours would put too great
a strain on employees. This argument
has no force in the present case, so pre-
sumably O’Dea now regards the “laws
on petrol-selling” as having some
peculiar sanctity of their own irrespective
of their former purpose.
The August issue of “The Open Road,”
official organ of the N.R.M.A., says that
90 self-service pumps are in operation in
Victoria and that they sold l|-million
gallons of petrol last year. There are
three in Tasmania and one at Coolan-
gatta (Q.). No instance of fire, accident
or vandalism has yet been reported from
any of them.
On the face of things it seems that
provided the Mines Department reports
on the safety of the pumps there will be
no reason for refusing permits for them.
Opposition in Sydney to a device already
proving successful in Victoria is merely
pigheaded conservatism. Self - serve
petrol-pumps, like self-serve milk and
soft-drink dispensers, are bound to come.
It is no good trying to put back the
clock.
It is not suggested that on festive
occasions the pumps should pour forth
champagne or beer, but perhaps Mr.
Ferguson could come to some arrange-
ment with the petrol-companies whereby
the pumps could handle his wares as
well as their own.


AUSTRALIAN GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
Head Office: 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: BW 1011, BW 1012, 8W4991
DIRECTORS:
STRUAN ROBERTSON (Chairman), S. E. A. STIRLING,
JAMES 11. STEPHENSON, R. G. GALE, RAYMOND S. GOWARD, C.B.E.
A. C. MAITLAND O. S. PETTERSEN
(Managing Director) (Manager)
Branches and Agencies in all States.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION MERITS YOUR SUPPORT.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Signs of Spring
There was a pleasant
promise of spring about the
first day’s racing of the new
season at Caulfield; not from
the weather, which was bitterly
cold, but in the winning-
performances of Webster and
Lord Gavin. Here were two
class gallopers both are (
w.-f.-a. winners—whose ability
stood out from the winter per-
formers opposed to them like
Danny Kaye appearing at a
village concert. The handi-
capper had done his best to
cut them down to size by
allotting each 9.7 against a 7.5
minimum, but his efforts only
emphasised the gulf between
winte r and spring form.
Lord Gavin’s run was par-
ticularly interesting. The six-
year-old Black Pampas geld-
ing had been off the racing
scene since last November,
and in the meantime he has
given Bon Hoysted no end of
worry because of a weakness
in the off foreleg. His race on
Saturday was the six-furlongs
Moondah Plate, an ideal dist-
ance for a middle-distance
horse to tackle after a spell.
Barely in the call at the half-
mile, he went through the field
like a hot knife through
butter, and on the line was
being eased-down by Ron
Hutchinson to win by three
lengths. He now looks a Cups
chance (he has a Moonee
Valley Cup in his record), but
he would be a risky horse to
back before the day of the
race because of that suspect
leg.
• • • •
Webster’s win was in the
mile - and -a - half Balaclava
Stakes, in which he carried his
heavy burden in the lead from
barrier to box. iLast month
Webster ran in the Doomben
Ten Thousand and Doomben
Cup, and ran very badly in
both. That is hard to under-
stand. It was not a matter of
the class being too good for
him —Webster has a C. B.
Fisher Plate in his record, and
that is class-enough race for
any horse. Possibly he did not
become acclimatised, or more
likely the track did not suit
him. Webster is a big-striding
animal, and does his best when
he has plenty of galloping-
room. He does not appeal in
the Cups, but in w.-f.-a. events
from a mile to 12 furlongs he
will be a real danger.
Encouraged by the earlier
successes of Lord Gavin and
Webster, punters were anxious
to back Sir Blink, another class
horse, in the weak 10-furlongs
Gardenvale Handicap. They
forgot that Sir Blink is
notoriously a bad horse
secopd-up. On the same pro-
gramme last year Sir Blink,
again racing second-up, was
unplaced at odds-on. In the
Gardenvale he ran as might
be expected, tardy early,
improved to second straighten-
Broadlea missed the jump,
and had to travel wide around
the big field, to be beaten by
inches by the Carbon Copy
filly Carbonella. The winner’s
run was good, too —she came
from a long way back, and
both these fillies will win
better races.
With Hillwood unable to
run, last Saturday’s Australian
Hurdle looked, on paper, no
more than an exerpise-gallop
for Gay Ranick. The aged
Blank gelding was sent out an
11-to-8-on chance —the first
time an Australian Hurdle
favorite had started “in the
red.” Gay Ranick’s backers
still had no worries when the
gelding approached the last
jump, well clear and going
ing for home, then faded right
out of the picture. The run
can be forgotten. Give Sir
Blink another start, or pos-
sibly two, and then he will be
ready to tackle the best of
them.
• • • •
Honor of winning the first
three-year-old race of the new
season —in fact, the first race
of the horse-year—went to the
Blue Mickie-Boonong filly
Royal Rest when she won the
first heat of the Elsternwick
Stakes. She has been a good
buy for owner R. Parker, with
three metropolitan wins to her
credit. Parker thinks he can
win the Oaks with her, and
he has this to support his
hopes—last year Chicola won
the Elsternwick-Oaks double.
Possibly, however, a beaten
filly in the second Elsternwick
will prove a better Oaks
chance —Lord’s sister Broad-
lea. Racing first-up since a
Randwick win on April 1,
comfortably. Then he made
a shocking jump, but the com-
bination of Brian Smith’s skill
and the gelding’s own agility
prevented a fall, and in the
run home Gay Ranick was
only trotting to win by eight
lengths from the only runner
backed to beat him, French
Master, with Denvid another
15 lengths away, third.
Gay Ranick’s time was par-
ticularly good. On a dead
track he ran 4.53 y, not far
outside Elastin’s 1949 record
of 4.52|. For Brian Smith it
was a first Australian Hurdle
success after 12 tries. He has
now ridden at least one winner
of each of the big four
jumping-races—the National
double and the Australian
Hurdle and Steeple double.
* * *
There is no tougher test for
horse or rider on the Austra-
lian calendar than the Aus-
tralian Steeplechase, to be
decided at Caulfield next
Saturday. Run over miles,
it is Australia’s longest race.
In this decade Brian Smith has
ridden the winner of the race
five times. Back in 1892 Red-
leap won the Australian
Steeplechase with the prodigi-
ous burden of 13.12. It is no
wonder old-timers still love to
talk about him. In the same
year he won the Grand
National Hurdle with 11.12
and the Grand National
Steeple with 13.3. Next Satur-
day’s event looks open, but
possibly the South Australian
Double Bracket (9.13), winner
of the Godfrey Watson Steeple
last Saturday, will win from
another lightweight, Fulham’s
Hope (9.2), with Irish Sun
(11.1) just a chance.
* * *
First step in the V.A.T.C.’s
extensive plan of improve-
ments to Caulfield will be
taken in the next few days,
when work begins on the new
totalisator-house on the present
site of the horse-stalls. The
tote-house will incorporate
refreshment-counters. When it
is finished next February the
existing tote will be demolished
to permit extension of the main
stand.
V * *
At the V.R.C. office last
week some 50 representatives
of various sections of racing,
including club officials,
breeders and jockeys, launched
a new body to be known as
the Victorian Chamber of
Racing. It has as one of its
prime objects the moulding of
public opinion in favor of the
establishment of a system of
off-course tote-betting.
* * *
At St. Francis Catholic
Church in Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne, last week the
opening of the new racing-
season was marked by a special


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.*
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,’’ to
be posted weekly to
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates 1 year—£2 Bs.; £ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
tree. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.jl:
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; j year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add. exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO WILLIAM HAROLD COWAN
formerly of Centennial Park. —TAKE
NOTICE that GLADYS VALERIE
COWAN has filed a Petition for Divorce
In Suit No. 2665 of 1958 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or
excuse for 3 years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Mint Building Macquarie Street Sydney
by the 28th day of September 1959 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from MESSRS. JOHN D.
NORTON, RICKARD AND SYMONDS,
Solicitors, of 67 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO SIDNEY STEAD WILSON formerly
of Glebe.—TAKE NOTICE that LAURA
WILSON has filed a Petition for
Divorce in Suit No. 1233 of 1959 on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for 3 years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by the 9th day of
October 1959 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from
MESSRS. JOHN D. NORTON,
RICKARD AND SYMONDS, Solicitors,
of 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. —
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALLAN REGINALD DAVY.—TAKE
NOTICE that GRACE ELIZABETH
DAVY has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 4678 of 1958 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
the Twelfth day of October 1959 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from GEOFFREY SEE GILLIS
& CO., 28 Martin Place, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Mass. It was news to most
of the 200 racing men who
heard Father John Pierce give
the sermon that Camillus de
Lellis is regarded as the patron
saint of racing. Father Pierce
said the good saint had two
things in common with many
racing people: he was a very
unsuccessful gambler, but
when he saw the error of his
ways he dedicated himself to
charity—a quality with which
most racing people are well
endowed.
* * *
Sydney Horses
Travel Boy, from the T. J.
Smith stable, handed-out a
striking barrier win with colors
up at Randwick, and maybe
he will become the best of his
age as the season progresses.
His half-mile win over smart
performers Noholme and
Sonar King in 49sec. —best of
the session for his age-group—
indicated he is ready for a
good first-up performance, and
this is expected to be at Rose-
hill next Saturday. Travel Boy
wintered well, and was more
forward in race-condition
than his opponents. But, of
course, some of the gallopers
at these trials were as usual a
bit casual, or their jockeys had
a tight hold of the reins. How-
ever, at this early stage Travel
Boy looks a Melbourne Cup
chance. His sire, Marco Polo
(imp.), bred in France, won at
two miles in England. Stayers
he has sired include Mac-
dougal and Ark Royal.
* * M
In September last year two-
year-old filly Cherryhurst,
trained at Randwick by
Maurice McCarten, won
barrier-trials with colors up at
Randwick and at Rosebery in
fast time and was picked as
an early winner against the
best youngsters. However', she
went amiss, had to be thrown-
out of training, and was a
long time off the scene. Cherry-
hurst was to have competed
in the Randwick barrier-trials
last week, in the heat won by
Travel Boy, but she fell in the
stalls and was withdrawn. She
wasn’t hurt, though, ancTafter
the final trial was given a
strong hit-out from the boxes
and covered half-a-mile in
49isec., which was close to the
best for the session. Maybe
the filly will soon have her first
race-start, and she could do
well over a short course.
Cherryhurst (she carries
Stanley Wootton’s colors) is by
Bob Cherry (imp.) from
Durius (imp.) by Denturius
from Black Duck by Bellacose,
and is related to Belle of All,
winner of the One Thousand
Guineas and the Ascot Corona-
tion Stakes, and with total
earnings of £25,229.
# * «
New Spec has won nine
races —one at Hawkesbury (his
first as a two-year-old), the
rest at metropolitan fixtures in
the best sprint company, but
all on good going. His best
run on a heavy track was at
Warwick Farm on May 20,
when a close second to Gentle
Lu after leading round the
home-turn. He hadn’t been
produced since that outing
until last Saturday at Rand-
wick, and to many he was a
surprising 11-to-4 favorite.
Few racegoers recollected New
Spec previously sporting band-
ages on both forelegs. The
A.J.C. veterinary surgeon and
assistant steward, W. J. Mc-
Fadden, closely examined the
protective covering. Jockey
T. Hill then mounted the geld-
ing and went to the starting-
gates. New Spec shaped fairly
for about half-a-mile, then
dropped out to beat only three
home —a poor showing. Still,
New Spec perhaps needed the
strong hit-out, and might 'soon
do better. He’s a pretty nifty
sprinter when he strikes best
form on a fast track. New
Spec and a soft track
apparently don’t make a good
double.
••• . •
The Leo O’Sullivan stable
had mixed fortunes, with New
Spec failing so badly after
Juderion had, two races earlier,
won the Second Maiden
Three-year-old for colts and
geldings in brilliant style,
coming from the rear of the
field. It was an impressive per-
formance. Apprentice Keith
Smith rode an excellent race —
the first time he had had the
mount on Juderion. Smith gives
promise of being among the
leading jockeys this season. He
has ability, nous and a weight-
pull, being able to ride at 7.5,
which is close to the Sydney
limit.
Though Juderion’s Rand-
wick win was a big form-
improvement he hadn’t
finished closer than sixth in
four prior starts since mid-
May—he could win again soon,
and in much better company.
By Judicate (imp.), a son of
Hyperion, he is from Speedy
Duchess, a half-sister to True
Course. They don’t come
much better than True Course,
whose successes included the
A.J.C. and the V.R.C. Sires’
Produce Stakes, the Adrian
Knox Stakes and the V.R.C.
Oaks and the Wakeful Stakes.
Speedy Duchess is by Le
Grand Due (Fr.) from Urun-
along, a smart winner in her
time, and a sister to Australian
Cup .winner Carry On, by
Magpie (imp.) from Farfadet
(imp.) by Hurry On. That
ought to be breeding enough
to win a fair share.
French Descent started the
new racing season well for
Ray Selkrig, who won the
jockeys’ premiership in the
1958-59 term. Later in the
afternoon Selkrig made it two,
when Shamrock landed the
final event, the Clontarf Handi-
cap. Winner of the First Three-
year-old Maiden for colts and
geldings, French Descent was
patiently ridden by Selkrig.
The well-grown gelding, owned
by A.J.C. committeeman
J. H. B. Carr, was back in
the field to the home-turn, then
finished fast down the outside
to win going away. He’s by
Genetout (Fr.) from Belle
Coiffure (imp.) by Faigaro
from Belle Aventure by
Nothing Venture. Belle Coif-
fure won .at Newmarket.
Kerrie, easy winner of the
Maiden Three-year-old for
fillies, had been knocking at
the door with her two seconds
from four previous outings. In
all races she has shown a lot
of pace, and this time she
stayed in front to the end,
after taking an early lead.
Trained at Randwick by Tom
Smith, who later in the day
also scored with Sun Feast,
Kerrie is raced by a partner-
ship of four, one of whom is
Tom Cox, who in Jervis Bay
tourist-days was a well-known
figure at that seaside-resort.
Kerrie’s family-lines include
Pershore, whose wins included
the A.J.C. Metropolitan. The
filly is by Newtown Wonder


TENNIS COACHING
Melbourne tennis coacli has capa-
city for a School Vacation Clinic
in country. L.T.A.V. regional
coaching rates. Address:
Tennis Coach,
C/o “The Bulletin,” Box 55A,
G.P.0., MELBOURNE.
(imp.) from Miss Belgrade by
Marconigram (imp.) from
Brazen Line by Brazen (imp.).
She was capably handled by
stable apprentice H. Williams,
who has been doing a good
job with Smith-trained horses
lately indeed the 27,000
crowd gave the young horse-
man a hand even though
Kerrie had five ahead of her
in the betting. Belle Pan was
a big disappointment to owner
Alec Higgins and trainer H. T.
Walsh, after having been
backed from twelves to sixes,
but she may soon recoup losses.
An impressive unplaced run
is often followed by success
next start, and maybe two-
year-old filly Scythian, who
carries the colors of A.J.C.
committeeman Mr. Justice
Dovey (vice-chairman) and Dr.
T R. Street, will soon open
her winning-account. Scythian,
who improved on prior form
to finish fourth to Kerrie, had
solid support, but wasn’t
noticed until the closing stages,
when she came with a whirl-
wind finish on the outside to
narrowly miss a place. She
was a tail-ender at the home-
turn. T. J. Smith trains the
filly, whose rider, Mel
Schumacher, told stipes he had''
been disappointed several
when trying to get a run,
especially in the straight.
Stewards were anxious to learn
why the filly was so far back
in the early stages. Scythian
is by Delville Wood (imp.),
sire of good stayers, from
Amazonian (imp.) by Devon-
ian, and cost a modest 450gns.
as a yearling. A half-sister to
Waterford, who won races on
Sydney and Brisbane tracks,
Scythian would be suited by a
mile, or an even longer journey.
For a sprinter that had won
nine previous races, and all
of them on rain-affected tracks,
Valiant Prince was at gener-
ous odds (7 to 1) for the Rand-
wick Neutral Bay Handicap, in
which he had one of the easiest
wins of the afternoon. ( Huntly
and Lady Cortauld did well
enough to jot down for early
success. Both had been resting
over the colder weeks.
Grey five-year-old Shamrock
returned to the winning-list
after just on one year’s absence
when he finished strongly to
land the money in the Clon-
tarf Handicap. C. L. Sheil
trains the Jambo horse at
Warwick Farm for P. C. Bell,
who’s been a racing man for
many years. Like most of the
Jambos, Shamrock was suited
by the holding state of the
going. He finished in the
centre of the track, and it was
a decidedly convincing win.
Favorite Eudare had every
chance, but could only manage
a fourth—and it was the fourth
successive time he had started
first-fancy and let his backers
down. Dantesque was again
an unlucky placegetter. Sham-
rock was sold as a yearling for
275gns. His dam, Vestal Maid,
winner of several races in
N.S.W. country districts, is by
Nizami. (Fr.) from Vestal
Queen by Chief Ruler (imp.).
* * *
Most interesting winner at
the Eagle Farm (Q.T.C.) meet-
ing last Saturday was middle-
distance galloper Book Link.
Trained by Fred Best, he was
ridden by his usual pilot, Noel
Best, and had an easy task in
the Holly well Handicap (11
furlongs), beating Chilly
Glance, piloted by Noel
McGrowdie, who had a win
on Repatriate in the previous
race, the City Handicap (six
furlongs). McGrowdie had
also won the opening event, the
First Novice, on Midswain, a
three-year-old colt by Cox-
swain from Ina’s Robe by
Her o i c’s Double. Aswain,
winner of the Second Novice,
is a four-year-old by Turkaris
(imp.) from Shoal by Mid-
stream (imp.), and cost 400gns.
at the Randwick yearling
auction in 1957. He is trained
by A. B. Sinclair for Miss E. A.
Heuston. Family - lines of
Aswan include Carry On and
True Course.
* * *
Jack Gaxieu stepped out of
the panel of A.J.C. stewards
last Friday, retiring after up-
wards of 30 years with the club.
Into his place stepped another
Jack —Jack Sharp, who for
some time had been a deputy-
steward. It was a popular
promotion. As a clerk of the
course Sharp did a particu-
larly good job, and he’s had
wide and varied experience of
racing generally. Jack Gaxieu
in earlier years was one of
the best amateur riders, with
a fine record in various parts
of N.S.W., and subsequently
was A.J.C. starter for several
years. They’ll certainly miss
him in the busy round com-
ing up.
* * *i
Other Sports
The six leading teams in
Sydney’s Rugby Union —they
are the only teams still in the
running—clashed on Saturday.
Randwick, now on its own on
top of the table, beat St. George
12-9 in a fast, vigorous game.
University, which had to win,
beat Manly 32-22 in a fast and
open game; the Students
scored a try in the first minute,
and ran to a 13-0 lead, but
Manly fought back. North,
always the better team, beat
Gordon 18-3 —these two teams,
and ’Varsity, are level on
points in fourth place... .In
Wellington (N.Z.) on Saturday,
before a crowd of 55,000, the
British Isles beat Wellington
21-6, after trailing 3-6 at half-
time Sydney’s G.P.S. com-
petition was won by Scots
College, which on Saturday
beat St. Joseph’s 9-3. Scots has
twice before been joint winner
of the title, but this is its first
win on its own.
$ * *
Sydney Rugby League’s
second semi-final, one of the
best games of the year, was
won by St. George, which beat
West 35-25. It was 15-all at
half-time ; West, fighting back
gallantly, was without Test
forward O'Shea for all the
second half. The two stars of
the match —St. George centre
Gasnier (two tries), whom West
couldn’t handle, and West full-
back Russell (a try and five
goals). Despite the high scoring,
the defensive work by both
teams was good. This Saturday
West meets Manly.
* * *
Collingwood has made it.
Bottom of the V.F.L. list after
five defeats in the first five
games, ’Wood on Saturday,
after its sixth successive win,
entered “the four” for the first
time this year, ousting St.
Kilda on percentages. The
Magpies defeated Carlton
9.14-8.9 in a hard, slogging
“thriller.” After its previous
week’s trouncing by Richmond,
North hung on for a 10-point
win over St. Kilda, down at
St. Kilda, 13.7-10.15; North
dominated the first three
quarters, and led 12.7-4.9 at
the third change, before the
Saints, too late, began to play.
Melbourne and Fitzroy played
an exciting 11.11-11.11 draw
on the M.C.G.; the Lions’ two
match-points only has probably
ruined their chances of making
the finals. Essendon kept its
faint hopes alive by probably
ending South’s, 10.19-8.14 —
though both teams are now
level on match-points. It was
an even “any man’s” game up
to three-quarter-time, but
South’s loss then of star rover
Skilton settled the issue. In
'two games with no bearing on
the premiership, Hawthorn
overwhelmed Footscray 14.15-
7.10, and Geelong, kicking 7.6
to nil in the second quarter,
thrashed Richmond 12.15-6.7.
* * *
Last week’s boxing: At
Sydney Stadium red-haired
Irish welter Mick Leahy
stopped Australian middle-
weight champion Clive Stewart
in the seventh. Stewart’s left
eye was badly cut, and Leahy,
who had been concentrating,
on it, was well ahead on points.
This was Leahy’s second win in
Australia over a champion —
on June 8, in Sydney, he had
outclassed Empire welter cham-
pion George Barnes (who
gained a hairline points deci-
sion over Leahy in a return
bout).... In Brisbane, in a
fight for the title he had won
only a fortnight before,
Queensland lightweight cham-
pion Gary Cowburn defeated
Des Asche on a t.k.o.


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS, A. MURRAY JONES, HUGH DIXSON,
D. A. T. DICKINS.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J . K. WILLIAMS, General Manager .
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
FACING THE BOMB
“ A ll British parties are search-
for means to avert the
horrors of nuclear war.
Reduced to the simplest terms,
there are three schools of
thought about how this can be
done. The first, associated
with Mr. Cousins [chief of the
powerful Transport and
General Workers’ Union] is
a unilateral refusal to make or
to possess nuclear weapons.
The second, just argued by
Mr. Gaitskell at Hamburg and
supported by the Liberals, is
an association of nations,
pledged neither to make nor to
possess such weapons. The
third, which is the policy of
the Conservative Government,
is to make and keep them
until other countries agree to
limit or renounce them. The
first two policies either dis-
claim the deterrent or maintain
that we need not contribute
to it. The last maintains that
we must, in all sense and
honor, contribute to the only
instrument which has kept the
peace for the past 10 years.”
Thus London “Daily Tele-
graph,” summarising positions
in the nuclear argument which
has lately occupied many U.K.
editorial-writers, continues:
“This is not a simple issue
of patriots versus traitors, nor
even of the courageous against
the cowardly. Perhaps the best
description is that the sensible
face the sentimental. In any
case, as [a recent] sample
poll shows, the majority
against unilateral nuclear dis-
armament among voters of all
parties is overwhelming.
“That does not mean that
anybody shrugs-off the horrors
of nuclear war. It means
simply that most people do
not believe the argument that
it is possible, by making our-
selves unnoticeable and un-
notable, to avert those horrors
if nuclear war should start.
“With the exception of a
few countries in circumstances
very different from ours, his-
tory has shown that the hope
of keeping out of major
trouble is an illusion. Some
of the disarmers recognise this
and declare that it would be
—London “Observer."
“ANYTHING SUITABLE FOR A FRENCH GENERAL
AGED SIXTY-EIGHT?”
better to allow ourselves to be
overrun and occupied.
“In fact, countries which
have banked on neutrality or
even tried to establish
neutrality when all seemed lost,
have endured casualties and
damage hardly less than the
combatants. They have too
often got the worst both of
the physical and of the moral
worlds. If it be said that the
prospect is now not merely
suffering but annihilation, the
answer is that abdication
might well fail to avert even
annihilation. The consequences
of war today differ in degree,
but not in kind.”
Considering the problem
from the Nato viewpoint,
London “Observer” notes that
“in their different ways General
de Gaulle and Mr. Cousins
express the same crisis in the
Western alliance”:
“At present the West
depends for its safety on the
nuclear deterrent, which is
fully possessed by only one of
its members, the United
States, and to a much smaller
extent by Great Britain. From
this General de Gaulle con-
cludes that if France is to have
her rightful say in deciding
Western policy she, too, must
have nuclear bombs and dare
not leave her defence to the
Americans. Mr. Cousins con-
cludes that the bomb is so
hateful and dangerous that it
would be better to risk break-
ing-up the alliance than to
continue to rely on it. The
British Government, more
sensible but hardly more con-
sistent, is ready to take the
Nato bombers France refuses,
but still insists on having its
independent deterrent as well.
“In fact all three are wrong.
Britain’s influence does not
depend on her nuclear
weapons, as General de Gaulle
seems to think, but on having
a fairly sensible world policy
which the United States can
support. France would gain
more by ending the Algerian
war than by manufacturing a
bomb. Mr. Cousins is wrong
if he imagines that Britain can
stand alone or that the West
can afford to give-up the deter-
rent as long as Russia has it.
The British Government is
wrong in thinking that
Britain’s independent deterrent
adds anything to the real
strength of the West.
“The problem of the con-
trol of the bomb is more
difficult, and one can have
some sympathy for the reluct-
ance of countries even more
immediately threatened than
Britain to depend solely on
weapons based far away and
in the use of which they have
no voice. But this problem
will not be solved by giving
nuclear weapons to each
member of the alliance, but by
strengthening the alliance
itself.
“If Britain and France insist
on manufacturing their own
nuclear weapons at the expense
of their conventional forces,
the Western alliance will be
threatened with disintegration.
Unity depends on recognising
that Europe cannot be
defended solely from North
America or solely by nuclear
weapons. We should not try
to get rid of the Americans
as, for different reasons,
General de Gaulle and Mr.
Cousins both seem to wish;
but to commit them so deeply
to the local defence of Europe
that their interests and ours
seem identical.”
Coming back to the argu-
ment within Britain, London
“Time and Tide” finds the
different positions of Messrs.
Gaitskell and Cousins equally
unsatisfactory:
“To argue, as do the
Socialists, that this country
would benefit in some way by
renouncing nuclear weapons
herself in the pious hope that
others will follow her example
is to refuse to face facts. In
the first place the Russians,
while they might be gratified
at our self-denial, would not
allow their gratification to
deter them from directing their
missiles at Great Britain if they
thought fit to do so. America
would feel that her principal
ally had abandoned her and
would shape her policy accord-
ingly. France, China and the
other countries involved in the
ghastly nuclear race would
neither admire us for our
altruism nor follow our lead.
And we should be defenceless.
“We have now a modest
stock of the terrible weapons
whose existence overshadows
the minds of men. We must
retain these under our own
hands while striving, as Mr.
Cousins urges, to secure the
general abandonment or inter-
national control of nuclear
armaments. We cannot hope
to do this if we ourselves are
powerless in terms of modern


DO YOUR CHILDREN
RUN YOUR HOME?
The family can be a unique
character-building institution
. . . or it can be dominated
by a young tyrant. In August
Reader’s Digest you’ll read
how the mother of 4 children and
the grandmother of 11 shows
what happens when parents
give in to their children —
wrongly afraid of losing their
love.
Other articles include: Six
Seconds for Exercise; Should We
Adopt the Metric System?; Inter-
view with an Immortal; What
“Success”- Schools Really Can
Do; Condensed Book, The Long-
est Day; The Thermoelectric
Engine's Debut — in August
Reader’s Digest.
On sale NOW at all news-
agents and bookstalls. Get
your copy today. Only 2/-.
warfare. That is the plain
fact of the case, and we shall
ignore it at our peril.”
The “Manchester Guardian,”
however, finds a certain value
in the Gaitskell plan:
“As a policy it may not suc-
ceed, but, as Mr. Gaitskell has
been telling the European
Socialists in Hamburg, it is well
worth trying. We shall not
know whether we can stop the
spreading of nuclear weapons
until we have tried. The most
immediate obstacles are the
probable objections of the
French and Chinese Govern-
ments, but neither of these
need prove insurmountable.
“The root of French
anxieties lies in the feeling that
decisions governing her own
destiny are taken without her
participation. If that can be
overcome by better consulta-
tion within the alliance —and
if at the same time the French
realise how costly the manu-
facture of their own weapons
is going to be —French views
may change.
“As to China, if Peking also
insists on having its own
bombs, then the form of the
non-nuclear proposal may have
to be revised. The line of
negotiation then may be to
suggest that bombs are retained
at present by the Russians and
Chinese on one side and the
Americans and British (or
French and British jointly) on
the other. That is a less-
satisfactory alternative, but a
possible one.
“The primary purpose is to
try to prevent the spreading
of nuclear weapons to 12, 15
or 20 nations in the next
decade. If that is allowed to
happen the danger of a devas-
tating war will be higher.”
Undeterred?
Another way of facing the
bomb —working out what
would happen if someone
dropped it on you comes
from the U.S. by way of
London “Economist”:
“If a hypothetical attacker
had succeeded in dropping 260
nuclear bombs on American
cities and defence-installations
last October, about 50-million
people would have been killed
outright or fatally injured and
about half the houses in the
country would have been
destroyed or made uninhabit-
able. This was the estimate
given to a sub-committee of
Congress’s Joint Atomic Energy
Committee by experts of the
Office of Civil and Defence
Mobilisation and of other
Government agencies during
five days of hearing [in June].
“Even so, the United States
would have survived; more-
over, the number of casualties
from such an attack could be
greatly reduced by building
shelters, preparing to evacuate
cities and adopting simple
warning systems. Experts
from the Defence Department
dismissed as fantasy the idea
that the human race would be
wiped out by clouds of radio-
active dust.
“To the 50-million Ameri-
cans condemned to a hypo-
thetical death this may seem
—New York "Herald Tribune."
1960 POLITICAL PRESTIGE MACHINE.
doubtful comfort. But advo-
cates of a civil-defence pro-
gramme, such as Mr. Holifield,
the chairman of the sub-
committee, feel that it is of
the utmost importance to dispel
the idea that a nuclear war
would mean mass suicide and
that nothing can be done to
reduce its terrors. So does the
Department of Defence; it
does not want Mr. Khrushchev
to think that the United States
is too horrified by nuclear
weapons ever to use them.
Whether the sensational head-
lines produced by prophecies
of 6-million deaths in New
York, 2-million in Boston and
so on, have had the bracing
effect sought is another matter.
“Once these hearings were
completed, Mr. Holifield, with
four other members of the
Atomic Energy Committee,
spent a few days, at the Admini-
stration’s suggestion, at the
Geneva talks on the banning
of nuclear tests; these talks
are the chief hope that the
warheads may eventually be
brought under control.
“Hearings this spring seemed
to convince Mr. Holifield that
the dangers from such tests
were exaggerated, and most
members of the committee feel,
with Mr. McCone, the influ-
ential chairman of the Atomic
Energy Commission, that no
agreement would be preferable
to one without adequate
provisions for inspection.
The Administration’s invitation
suggests that it is sufficiently
hopeful about the talks to want
to convince influential Senators
that the safeguards are
sufficient, at least for tests
above-ground.”
Soviet Economic
Challenge?
Tn an article in London
“Financial Times” on the
rapid growth of Soviet econo-
mic power and its possible
threats to the West, Sir William
Hayter (Warden of New Col-
lege, Oxford) notes that
although “the alarming feature
of this great expansion is the
extent to which its products
have been devoted to State
needs, and particularly to
military needs,” it neverthe-
less has its compensating side:
“The best hope for the
world is, presumably, that
Soviet Communism will one
day lose its dynamism, its
crusading fervor, as other mis-
sionary creeds like Islam have
in the past, and that the Soviet
Union will settle down as a
normal member of inter-
national society. This settling-
down process is surely more
likely in a prosperous than in
an impoverished society; as
Mr. Khrushchev has put it, ‘we
are getting richer, and that
makes us more democratic.’
“As the economy visibly
improves, two things seem
likely to happen. First, the
rulers will realise that they have
more at stake, more to lose in
a conflict, and so feel less
inclined to adventures.
Secondly, the ruled will tend
to demand a larger share of
the visibly growing assets of
the economy, this consumption-
pressure will be increasingly
difficult to resist, and the pro-
portion of the national income
devoted to military ends should
sink.
“All this, however, is still
a long way off, and meanwhile
the Soviet Government remains
remarkably free to deploy its
economic assets as it wishes, at
home or abroad. Its impact
abroad is twofold. First, the
spectacle of a backward
country successfully industrial-
ising itself must clearly make
a strong impression on other
underdeveloped countries wish-
ing to do likewise, and this
may incline them to admire
and perhaps to imitate the
political system responsible for
these successes. Secondly,
there is the direct use the
Soviet Government can make
of the great resources at its
disposal.
“The Soviet Government
could theoretically use these


resources in support of its
political policies in one or both
of two ways. It could use them
to disrupt the economy of the
capitalist world by dumping,
upsetting prices, or other
wrecking tactics. This is a
bogy often raised. It is only
a bogy so far. Nothing of
the kind has yet been attempted.
Though there have been sales
(for example, of tin) and re-
sales (for example, of cotton)
at well below world prices,
these seem all to have been
motivated by a desire to get
foreign exchange at any cost
and not by disruptive designs,
and they were not pushed far
when protesting noises were
made by other exporting
countries.
“The second way in which
Soviet economic policy can
serve political ends is in the
aid-programme to under-
developed countries. The
volume of this aid is of course
minute in relation to Western
and particularly American aid.
But the Soviet Government is
particularly well placed to draw
the maximum political profit
from such aid, owing to its
complete control of all its
foreign trade and its ability to
mobilise as much of its pro-
duction as it judges fit for the
purpose.
“This means that the Soviet
Government can easily direct
the aid it gives to just the areas
and in just the forms in which
its impact will be greatest.
Moreover, owing to its starved
internal economy the Soviet
Union can easily absorb as
much as it likes of the under-
developed countries’ exports,
which the West for one reason
or another is often unwilling
to take, or to take at a profit-
able price. For all these
reasons the Soviet Govern-
ment finds it much easier than
the West to use its aid to these
countries to win friends and
influence people there.
“Successful and powerful
though this programme is, it is
important not to overrate its
impact. The political motives
that lie behind Soviet aid have
been clearly enough shown in
Soviet handling of Yugoslavia,
where aid was cut off in mid-
flow owing to political differ-
ences, and this lesson has not
been lost on other recipient
countries. Moreover the in-
satiable demands of the Soviet
Union’s own internal market
cannot always be resisted, and
as prosperity grows in the
Soviet Union there may well
be less and not more available
for politically inspired aid
abroad.
“Well-placed as the Soviet
Government is to use its
foreign trade for political
purposes, it should not be
supposed that this is the
only or even the principal
guiding factor in that trade.
In the present phase of
its economic expansion cer-
tain imports from abroad,
particularly tropical raw
materials and certain special-
ised machinery, are obviously
indispensable. The currency to
acquire these is not easily
earned by Soviet exports, and
its acquisition and not the
winning of political successes
or the disruption of capitalism
is probably the main pre-
occupation of Soviet foreign
trade at present.”
Workers of the World
"Crom a report by George
Vine, in London “News
Chronicle,” on the Sixth
—London “News Chronicle.”
“WHAT BAFFLES ME IS—HOW ON EARTH DID HE GET THAT FAR?”
Congress of the Socialist
International in Hamburg:
“Over half of the delegates
were either Cabinet Ministers
or ex-Cabinet Ministers, or
members of coalition Govern-
ments, some even ex-Prime
Ministers.
“Men who have arrived,
men who have power or every
expectation of power.
“Men still, perhaps, with
dreams but no illusions. Men
who know that the answer to
bigger old-age pensions is how
many streaky rashers can you
sell off a pig’s back.
“I mean no disrespect. I
admire these people. But
watching them depart after the
ritual of passing those great
grey omnibus resolutions, one
wondered: Was their journey
really necessary?
“It was an ex-Prime Minister,
Jules Moch, who expressed the
lost feeling:
“‘What are we aiming a?
now? The workers in Europe
eat _ better than Marie
Antoinette. Nationalisation is
a dead-letter. .
“It was an Austrian, Oscar
Poliak, who warned of the
danger that Socialists are be-
coming too immersed in their
own national problems.
“One recalled the remark
of the French Socialist, Andre
Philip: ‘The .only nationali-
sation that has been successful
is the nationalisation of the
French Socialist Party.’
“Here were 150 Socialists in
search of an ideology. Gents
in pin-stripes looking for a
toiling mass.
“Where are the toiling
masses today? Not far away,
About six hours by Comet.
“And their leaders, in
kimonos, saris and lungis, were
sitting right here in the hall,
perplexed and disappointed
that the Socialist International
had not found time to devote
a session to the problems of
the Far East.”
New Rich, New Poor
A recent United Nations
report emphasised what
the “New York Times” sees as
“a dangerous trend in world
economy, obscured by the
more dramatic developments in
the cold war, but of equal and
potentially even greater impor-
tance to the outcome of that
war and the preservation of
freedom”:
“Stated in baldest terms, the
trend is that the rich industri-
alised nations are growing
richer while the poor and under-
developed raw-material
countries are at best holding
their own or are growing
poorer, and that in any case
the gap between the two is'
widening rather than closing,
“This is largely, if not solely,
a result of the fact that since
1953 the prices of goods ex-
ported by the industrialised
nations have risen by 4 per
cent., to the benefit of their
general prosperity, while the
prices of raw materials
exported by the under-
developed countries have
dropped by 7 per cent,
“As a result, while the
‘terms of trade’ have improved
by 3 to 11 per cent, for the
industrialised nations, enabling
them to raise living-standards
and amass gold-reserves, the
same terms have fallen by 10
per cent, for the Far East and
by 12 per cent, for Latin
America. The impact of this
fall is further aggravated by
an explosive population
increase which is highest in the
worst-affected areas.
“In other words, while, in a
manner never dreamt of by
Karl Marx, the gap between the
‘capitalists’ and a vanishing
‘proletariat’ is closing in the
industrialised nations, a new
gap is opening between the
‘haves’ and the ‘have-nots’
among nations. Moreover, it
is widening at a time when
the latter are on the march
to claim their place in the sun
of prosperity.
“The obvious and generally
accepted solution of this
problem is, of course, industria-
lisation. This explains the lure
of Communism, which, though
fading among the masses
because of brutal Communist
aggressions, still intrigues some
of the intelligentsia as a way
to lift up a nation by its boot-
straps, irrespective of the
human cost. It also explains
the rise of military and authori-
The Bulletin, August 5, 1959


IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
tarian regimes in under-
developed countries as one
way of coping with the double
problem of essential economic
development and a restless
population. The Communists
are, of course, making the
most of their opportunities.
They thus pose a new challenge
which the free world cannot
ignore.”
China's Atomic
Capacity
/commenting on China’s
capacity for nuclear-arms
manufacture, the “Manchester
Guardian’s” science - corres-
pondent notes that “so far
as official announcements go,
the only atomic-energy plant
on the Chinese mainland is
an experimental atomic reactor
built largely with Russian help
and commissioned on June 13
last year.
“This is a heavy-water
reactor with a heat-output of
10,000 kilowatts and is in-
stalled at Peking. Even this
machine could, however, pro-
duce plutonium which could
be used for military purposes,
though only at such a small
rate that it could not be used
for serious military develop-
ment. .
“Thus at full and continuous
operation the reactor would
produce some three kilograms
of plutonium every year, or
enough to make a small atomic
bomb of fairly crude design
every 18 months. This would
mean that by the end of this
year the Chinese could be in
possession of enough plu-
tonium to make a single bomb
even if they had received no
help from the Russians in the
way of designs and scientific
information about bombs.
“The further development
of a Chinese military atomic
industry would presumably
take a similar course to that
in Britain, principally because
electricity is urgently needed
for other purposes than the
extraction of fissile uranium
from the natural metal. This
implies that they would be
more likely to obtain fissile
explosives by building reactors
which could make plutonium.”
Return of the Saar
'J'he “New York Times”
comments editorially on
the French Government’s de-
cision to turn-over to West
Germany, six months ahead of
the allotted time, full economic
as well as political control over
the Saarland:
“Like Alsace-Lorraine, the
Saar has long been a bone of
contention between France
and Germany. By the will of
its people, as well as by the
fact of two German defeats,
Alsace-Lorraine has returned
to France. But the people of
the Saar, voting in two plebi-
scites in 1935 and 1955, con-
tinued to cling to Germany,
and France accepted their ver-
dict. It turned-over political
control of the territory to
Germany on January 1, 1957,
and has now liquidated the
Customs Union that still bound
the territory to France for a
transition period of three years.
“The return of the Saar
makes West Germany the
strongest industrial Power in
Western Europe, so prosperous
that today it has more job-
vacancies than unemployed.
Furthermore, this return of the
Saar, following a voluntary
exchange of border-strips be-
tween Germany and Belgium,
completes German reunifica-
tion in the West and does so
by the democratic process.
“What is more, it strengthens
European unity and the whole
North Atlantic alliance that
must depend on it. For both
these reasons congratulations
are due to President de Gaulle
and Chancellor Adenauer for
solving a difficult problem in
a manner that should serve as
a model for solving other intra-
Western disputes.”
Monty on Berlin
“Crom an article in London
“Sunday Times” by Field-
Marshal Lord Montgomery:
“I suggest we must be quite
honest. We must say to the
German people that any
reunification of their nation is
not possible until the European
security problem is sorted out
to the satisfaction of East and
West, and some organisation
is created which provides effec-
tive guarantees against disturb-
ance of the peace of the world.
“Later, when all are satisfied,
we will see what can be done.
But it cannot be yet. And the
Germans must understand that.
After all, basically they are
responsible for the present
state of affairs.
“This problem of a united
Germany is so acute that there
can be no hope of any agree-
ment with Russia so long as
all Western proposals are
linked to a plan to reunify
Germany. But if German
reunification is put away in the
cupboard for a while, and the
West admit that it is not
possible until the more impor-
tant problem of European
security is settled, then I reckon
we could at once make progress
with Russia and get some
agreement on essentials.
“If there is any one partic-
ular danger against which we
must guard, it is that we should
get impatient with the present
situation and settle for some
quick solution which sacrifices
all we have struggled for over
the weary years. That we must
never do. There can be no
quick solution ; the causes of
the conflict between East and
West are too deep-seated for
that.
“The struggle will be hard
and long. But time is on our
side—and not the contrary, as
so many think. No tyranny
has ever lasted. Provided we
can find some way to ‘live and
let live’ with the Russian people,
the progress of civilisation and
education will bring great
changes in that nation —and
all may well work out right in
the end.”


THE ‘‘WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An I r sent Guide '
c
Single Cork's . * •** 2/r
.Yearly Sj»ficriptica4 «. 22/6
J %
worry. You and me speak the
same lingo, don’t we?”
The radiogram was playing
something from the new musi-
cal comedy and Rostova
hummed a few bars of it, then
spoke with the girl again. His
eyes were sniffing greedily,
giving her all the warning she
could have wanted.
“Come on, kid; I show you
that dress-stuff I wanted you
to see.”
He yelled back at Jamieson.
“Plenty of drink. Mak’ your-
self happy.”
“Sure, Bert; have fun.”
He wandered over to the
card-table and pretended to
watch. His thoughts were on
the girl at the hotel and that
night he’d had nothing to
do. He had leaned across her
desk —“I know we haven’t met,
but do you feel like taking
pity on a traveller with
nowhere to go?”—A night-out,
nothing more—until the explo-
sion at her front gate; the
tigress unleashed . . .
“Geoff . . . Geoff,” she had
murmured as they kissed. She
held hard to him. There was
no build-up to this; he was
unready. And then the ice-
and-fire excitement caught him
up and the casualness of the
night was shredded to pieces.
The unreality of it assumed the
most frantic reality. The
street lights snapped out sud-
denly, and with that the girl
snuffed out her own fires and
broke away. She went through
the gate; she was crying
softly . . . The next day
Rostova rang early, and he
had left the hotel before she
came on.
One of the men at the table
was leaving, and Jamieson
realised he was being asked
into the game. He shook his
head and one of the players
said something he couldn’t
understand, and they all
laughed.
Then the same ma. ! in
clumsied English, ied
man’s traveller, eh?” And
when Jamieson ooded: “Is
too big, this game, for the
traveller; he say—Friedman
say—‘What happen to all my
money, traveller, eh? Where
all my profits go?’”
They laughed again.
"Ip ven as he sat in the vacant
chair Jamieson was curs-
ing himself for haying risen
to the bait.
Five played. A dark girl,
no more than fourteen,
brought Jamieson a tiny cup
of black coffee and a glass of
arrack. The man who had done
the talking was banker. He
halved the new pack as Jamie-
son drew out a smoke, broke
the halves into each other
several times, then shuffled. It
was a loving ritual. Jamieson
cut.
It was for money, all right.
No-limit bets. Jamieson
“ Yessir , the Polar Section is holding its reunion
separately .”
played cautiously until he
realised it was costing him too
dearly. He opened his play
out a little and stopped the
drain. Then three quick hands
cost him a tenner. The tight-
faced banker made another
funny remark.
Jamieson drew an ace, put
a tenner on it and bougnt
another as his second card. He
’’ed thoughtfully at his
The other four were
wrneimig him closely as the
game swung back to him.
Three playing the bank.
He split his aces and bought
■e with a fiver: a two. He
pushed out another fiver for a
sc en. His fourth card was a
live—fifteen, and he had
fwenty pounds sitting on the
hand. He made it twenty-five
pounds for the last and turned
it slowly in the silence: a
three. There was a murmur
as he showed the cards.
He turned to his other hand,
buying again for a fiver —his
last.
A king gave him his pon-
toon.
The little banker flushed
angrily but said nothing. His
own hand busted and he paid
the three —eighty pounds to
Jamieson.
Jamieson felt more appre-
hensive than excited. The man
who had been banker was
talking volubly now to the
player next to him, his face
losing its tightness in expres-
sive disgust. Jamieson took
the cards with a trapped feel-
ing. He looked at his watch.
Nine-thirty.
The bank proved costly for
him, too. His brief spin with
it took forty-five pounds of
his winnings. After that he
kept even on the play. At
10.30 they decided to change
to poker and Jamieson asked
to be let out.
The little man protested
angrily. One of the others,
bigger, said, “Sit down!”
sounding as though he was
used to being obeyed. Jamie-
son rose. The big man palmed
the cards together deliber-
ately. The little man spoke
excitedly.
Something ugly was coming
up—Jamieson wasn’t quite sure
what—when Rostova came
back into the room.
He looked at the notes
Jamieson was folding away.
“The cards pay you better than
the rag business, eh?”
He sounded surprised.
His shirtfront was crumpled.
The dark sags beneath the
eyes seemed more pronounced
than before. He was blinking
back vision into eyes that had
accustomed, themselves to the
dark. Ignoring the others, he
dragged Jamieson across to
the table where the liquor was
set.
“Where’s the girl?”
Rostova laughed. “I sent
her home. She got tired.” He
dropped his voice. “I’m getting
sick of this crew, Jamieson.
Too much like my old man
and woman, Jamieson. Sid-
down all night and talk, talk,
talk —play cards and talk, you
know?”
The liquor, souring in his
stomach now, sharpened his
sense of injustice. “They come
to my place, play cards and
talk about the ol’ country all
night. Drink my whisky,
wine ; eat my food. Then they
go home and say, ‘That swine,
Rostova, all he thinks about
is his women ; why do we go
to his place?’ ”
Jamieson wanted to laugh.
He thought he might have felt
a little pity for else.
But not for such a sloppy,
untidy and ugly man as
Rostova. He drained his drink,
waiting.
“Anyway, I know where we
can get some laughs tonight,
Jamieson. We can really have
a bit of fun, you and me.”
Jamieson was thinking of
the girl. He looked at his
watch. Nearly eleven. He
was in Rostova’s home for the
same thing as the others —
maybe not his liquor, but
something more: that order.
He wanted to say, “To hell
with your cat-chasing, Ros-
tova.”
Instead, he said, “Okay,
we’ll take my car.”
On the way across town he
realised exactly why he had
been asked to Rostova’s home.
“You're a good-looking sort
of chap, Jamieson . . . Yet
you don’ bring no girl-friend
to my place.”
In the silence, Rostova
probed again: “Like the last
time you come. Good-looking
chap and no girl-friend with
him.”
“Too busy trying to sell
cloth to you.” Jamieson won-
dered when he could with
safety leave Rostova at this
next party.
'T'he room was heavily car-
peted, lit with a rose-
fluorescence. The music was !
something weird, pulsating.
With a shock Jamieson saw all
present were men, yet it was no
bucks’ party.
A gross youth, about nine- ;
teen, came over to them. Blue
suedes, chicken - yellow |
trousers, grey shirt and an
imitation-skin waistcoat.


INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £20,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 813 1 (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL, Man
“We’re terribly glad you
could come.”
He beamed at Rostova. “You
recognise what that is, don’t
you?” He had bent back a
little, waiting for recognition
of his taste.
Rostova pretended to listen
to the music. “That’s what
you bought with my dough?”
“Listen,” shushed the youth.
He rested the tips of his
fingers on Rostova’s chest, as
though trying to impart the
feel of the music to him.
“Wonderful, isn’t it? It
builds up into something
terribly frenetic soon; you’ll
hear.”
No one paid any more atten-
tion to Jamieson than had the
fat youth. He felt tired. The
staleness of too many cigarettes
was in his mouth. The liquor
had left him overheated and
flat. He wanted to go.
Rostova was obviously well
known and popular. The
youth with the palm-fond
hands fanned at him and
gushed over him, and another,
taller, gold-fillings and waved
hair, joined them.
The tall one was talk-
ing .... “Jonathan says I’ve
got really supple legs and he’s
agreed to take me for ballet.”
He put a slim, long-fingered
hand on each hip and balanced
on his toes.
“Watch, Mr. Rostova, watch
this! ” He did several high
kicks.
Rostova chuckled. “Very
good, Peter ; yeah, very good.”
Jamieson moved away
slightly, and at once a youth
was beside him, pouring a
drink. Jamieson was feeling
uneasy as well as tired.
“Have you known Mr.
Rostova long?”
Jamieson was silent a
moment . . . Yes, the brat was
fluttering his eyelashes. “Quite
a time,” he said.
"Dostova was enjoying him-
self. The liquor had
charged his sense of humor to
the point where he laughed
continuously.
“I’ll have to be getting
along, Bert,” said Jamieson.
“Soon, soon,” said Rostova,
impatient with the interrup-
tion.
It was eleven-thirty.
“Afraid I must go.”
Rostova turned to face him,
Palms up in appeal. “Whas-
samatter with you, Jamieson?
I asked you out for a few
laughs, now you wanna go.
Am’t you enjoying yourself?”
S ure - But I’ve got some-
thing else I must do.”
“We’ll go soon.”
The flat statement angered
Jamieson. He headed abruptly
for the door before the anger
could dissipate. And just be-
fore he reached it he hesitated.
He fingered his tie in a
mirror. He brushed a hand
through his hair. Then he
turned back.
Rostova was watching
mockingly.
Someone else was watching,
too —the youth with the flutter-
ing lashes.
“It’s far too early to go.
Come over here with me and
I’ll pour you something.” He
put one hand beseechingly over
Jamieson’s.
It happened before Jamie-
son’s thoughts could catch up
with his actions. He gripped
the boy’s hand and pulled him
tumbling back to him and his
right smashed hard against the
startled, simpering face.
There was a stricken hiss
from the room. The boy rose.
He stared horrified at the
blood from his spurting nose.
The clouded mixture of confu-
sion and shock left his fea-
tures, and rage trampled the
delicate face into nascent
savagery. There was a click
as the spring-blade unfolded.
“Put that away, Tony,”
shouted Rostova.
But the boy was already at
Jamieson. Jamieson brushed
the knife-arm away and his
other hand took the boy by
the shirtfront. His knee rose
and he saw the boy had at
least some of the sensatory
reactions of a normal male.
As the boy doubled, others
were upon Jamieson, but the
boy eeled away from the man
holding him and struck while
Jamieson was held. Jamieson
twisted and the knife went into
his left arm, just below the
shoulder. A wavy blackness
with increasingly few crests of
consciousness washed in
around him and then he
slumped, the blood spurting.
When he came round he was
in his car. Rostova, driving,
saw him move.
“Why in hell you pick one
of those boys?” His voice was
easy, amused.
Jamieson’s coat had been
removed and part of his shirt
torn away. He felt cautiously
around the rough bandaging.
“Nothing much,” Rostova
assured him. “Bit of flesh
nicked out, but it’ll mend fast.
Only trouble was the blood.”
His voice was still relaxed,
content. “You bled like a
stuck pig—all over the place.”
“Sorry about it.”
“Forget it. I told you we’d
have laughs tonight, didn’t I?”
“Yeah. Yes, you said that.”
Rostova pulled-in at the
front of the hotel. He helped
Jamieson into his coat and
they were walking towards the
entrance when the girl called.
“Clare! ” he said, remem-
bering.
“What happened to you?”
They stood under the yellow
glare of the hotel light.
“I’m sorry. I had to go
somewhere else first and got
delayed.”
“I was waiting for you.”
There was no reproach. The
wide eyes took-in the torn
shirt and stains. She seemed
to see Rostova for the first
time.
“I had a bit of trouble,
Clare.”
“Yes,” she said softly.
“I didn’t think you would
have waited.”
“No?” He knew she was
near tears.
Rostova said, “I’ll get him
inside, then I’ll take you home,
Miss.”
“No,” she said, shaking her
head. “Don’t bother. There’s
a cab - rank around the
corner.”
She had gone before either
man could say anything
further.
Tamieson rose late. He was
** still tired. His head and
his arm ached. He bathed the
wound in the wash-basin and
bandaged it again awkwardly.
Fumbling with the makeshift
bandage he caught himself re-
living the episode, an expan-
sive, C.T.A. version of it . . .
“So I punched this little weed
right up the nose, and next
thing he’s on top of me with
a knife!”
He thought it this way, and
was disgusted.
The girl was not due on
until 3 p.m. He sat on the
bed, smoking ; then picked-up
the phone and told the office
he would be leaving in an
hour . . .
Rostova came striding down
the floor of the factory to
meet him. He looked fit.
“Feeling better?”
Jamieson forced a smile.
“Arm’s still a bit stiff, but I’m
okay. On my way back now ;
thought I’d find out what
you’ve decided on the cloth.”
“Yeah. Sorry about that
business, but it was a good
night. I haven’t had so much
fun in a long time. What a
character, that Tony—the one
with the knife. Would have
killed you if he'd been left to
it, you know.”
“Sure. What about the
satin, Bert?”
“Yeah . . . Yeah, I’ll take
it. It’ll do.”
“What about the price?”
“Yeah, I’ll take his price.
Too damn’ pricey, that Fried-
man. But I’ll take it.”
Jamieson took out his order-
book. The game was ended.
He scribbled in the details and
passed it to Rostova.
The fat man hitched at
black, heavy trousers, brush-
ing ash from the front. He held
the pencil poised above the
paper, then looked up at
Jamieson.
“That girl waiting for you
last night . . . Mmmm.”
Tongue licked over fat lips.
“Real smasher, Jamieson . . .
Whafs her name?”
Jamieson lit a smoke. None
of your bloody business, he
wanted to say.
He drew on the cigarette.
The game wasn’t quite ended.
But he tried.
“Nice all right, wasn’t she?”
“Yeah, yeah. Where’s she
working, eh?”
Jamieson studied the cigar-
ette as though it was the simple
point of his thoughts’ imme-
diate focus.
“Her name?” he repeated.
“I’m just interested. She
looked a smasher.”
Jamieson dropped the cigar-
ette. He put all his force in
the swing. It caught Rostova
high on the cheek and reeled
him back against a sewing-
machine secured to a work-
bench. He slumped to the
floor, half under the bench,
and did not move.
Jamieson could see the
ragged red line across his
cheek, just beginning to bleed
now.
Someone giggled: Gwen,
the bundy-girl.
Jamieson walked out. The
punch had been good. He
felt 21.
He turned the car and
headed toward The Kings.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Developing the North
The “N. T. News” of 3/7/’59
gives prominence to two news-
items which the Sydney metro-
politan press seems to have
completely ignored—remarks
passed by the Lord Mayor of
Sydney on his return from
Israel, and comments made by
a team of top-ranking N.S.W.
rice-experts.
Alderman Jensen has really
done a good job for Aus-
tralia by going to Israel and
observing at first-hand what is
being done there by scientific
farming and water-conserva-
tion. He then went on a fact-
finding mission in the N.T.,
and had his eyes opened. For
there is an extraordinary
parallel between Israel and
parts of North Australia.
Both have areas of limited
rainfall, with high summer
temperatures. Both have soil
that responds to water in a
most remarkable manner. I
have travelled over much of
the Territory and have also
been struck by this comparison.
I remember coming off a dry,
arid, sunbaked plain and land-
ing at an outback station called
Monteginnie. Monteginnie will
always stick in my memory,
for there I saw, of all things,
a cauliflower weighing
No fertiliser. Just water and
Territory soil.
Now that Alderman Jensen
has seen what can be done with
water and scientific farming, it
is to be hoped that he will use
his very considerable influence
to induce politicians from the
south to take a more realistic
view of the Territory potential,
and I hope to see him come
out boldly as a protagonist of
the Birdum-Alice Springs rail-
way and—its natural corollary
—the link across the Barkly
Tableland through Western
Queensland to Bourke.
In June the chairman of the
Rice Marketing Board, with
other members and the director
of marketing of the N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture,
visited the rice-areas in the
Territory. They were vastly
impressed, and made very com-
plimentary remarks both about
the work done and the future
potential. They regard the
flood-plains of the Adelaide
as the great future “food-bowl”
of the East, and said so
emphatically.
But the tragedy of it all is
that old Dr. Holtze told the
S.A. Government exactly the
same things 70 years ago. I
have all his reports, and they
make interesting reading. Yet
they have been on the shelves
of Commonwealth or State
Departments all these years.
The Chinese in the Territory
“Well, I Was blowing my whistle — and, suddenly,
it just vanished !”
grew all their own rice well
over 60 years ago; I well
remember seeing the old check-
banks (or their remains) in
1950, and talking over rice-
growing with Jimmy Pan Quee,
son of one of the original rice-
growers. He would still have
been growing rice had he been
permitted by the Federal
Government. But no! Succes-
sive Governments, both Liberal
and Labor, insisted on all rice
used in the Territory being
brought from N.S.W. irrespec-
tive of cost, and irrespective of
the effect on the economy of
the Territory.
And this condition of affairs
prevailed until the Chase
Syndicate came into the picture
only a few years back. Had
there been a real vision of the
rice-potential of the North
when the Commonwealth took
control, 49 years ago, we
should have seen by now a
population of 100,000 in the
Territory, instead of less than
20,000, mostly civil servants,
their families or dependants.
Is it too much to hope that
Alderman Jensen and the rice-
marketing people who have
been up North will join forces
and really mobilise public
opinion down South? For it is
only public opinion that will
move our politicians. Then we
may really see something
happen—perhaps a trek like
that which peopled the Ather-
ton Tableland will start for
the Territory. It is not just one
big syndicate that will people
the North, but thousands of
young Australian farmers, their
wives and families. —D. C.
Tilghman (N.S.W.).
Service Pensions
I can endorse “Beechy Bill’s”
remarks about the Repat.
Department and service-pen-
sions (B. 24/6/’59). I have
been a service-pensioner since
1952, and every year my wife
and I have been subject to this
futile questionnaire. Each form
contains 27 questions plus sub-
questions. The pensioner
answers all these and then has
to duplicate the answers for
his wife. The spouse has a
similar 5.P.3 form to fill-in, so
in all, the couple have to
answer 104 questions and sub-
questions.
Till October last I was living
in N.S.W. Then I moved to
another State. Last January
my wife and I got our usual
5.P.3 forms, and were given
a month to return them or
pension stopped. Before the
month expired we received
another threat that if the forms
were not returned in 14 days
pension would again be stopped.
Within two months of send-
ing in my 5.P.3, I received
another issue of 5.P.3 forms
for spouse and self. I pro-
tested strongly, and received a
reply and apology from Repat.
“Tock Emma” (B. 8/7/’59)
must have been exceptionally
lucky to escape this annoying
annual inquiry. I tried to have
my service-pension paid into
an account, but was refused.
The ways of the department
can be most mysterious.— Gaba
Tepe (Tas.).
Surveys Needed
The Army’s recent Opera-
tion Grand Slam in the Collins-
ville-Eungella Range cattle-
country showed clearly the
need for new surveys in this
area. The same need probably
applies in most of North
Queensland.
When I first travelled the
Collinsville area armed with an
oil-company’s map I learned
that roads and rivers were
shown as often as not in the
wrong places. For example,
the Suttor River crosses the
Mt. Coolon road 42 miles from
Collinsville, but according to
the map it didn’t come within
60 miles of the • road—which
was rather disconcerting, since
I had instructions to inspect
the bridge over the river.
My troubles were small in
comparison to those of the
Army, which got w-ell and truly
bushed through following its
outdated Ordnance Survey
maps. These showed the road
to Eungella branching off the
Mt. Coolon road seven miles
from Collinsville, crossing the
Bowen River near Emu Plains
homestead, then proceeding
around the south-west end of
the Stonewall Range on its way
to Exmoor station.
Actually the Bowen River
is crossed on the Mt. Coolon
road, and the Emu Plains road
follows the river’s south-west
bank. From Emu Plains the
road passes to the north of the
Stonewall Range between it
and the Blackwall Range.
Even when they managed
to find Emu Plains, units dis-
covered that the relative posi-
tions of the homestead and
Tent Hill weren’t as shown
on the map.
An old-hand in the district
told me that flooding of the
Bowen and Broken Rivers
caused Emu Plains homestead


ficufli in Ihe
iuiiure
Great years are ahead of Australia: years in
which this country will be demanding that those
who can lead shall lead, and that its men shall be
men of action.
It is necessary, I believe, to remind ourselves
of this twofold prospect now, when the proofs of
a solid expansion could tend to bring us into the
error of thinking we can go along at a daily pace,
letting progress come largely of its own impetus.
Australia’s rise in a changing world must be
propelled; not just allowed to happen.
It would be a mistake, for instance, to imagine
that in material matters alone we can fulfil our
destiny. We could be prosperous and still poor,
possessing and yet wanting, without the spiritual
force that will put upon us the stamp of true
worth as a people.
Engineers can say what our national
requirements are in roads, or water, or power.
Authorities can measure production or survey the
outlets in trade. Bankers can tell us how the
financial streams are likely to flow.
In every important branch of our development
there are people who can advise on the actual and
potential in our economy.
Given all the skills and sciences we can
assemble to bear upon the resources that fortune
has placed abundantly around us, we still will
find no substitute for that Faith and inspired action
which must come from within ourselves.
Australia’s call, then, is for men who will
think originally and act courageously.
What they have to say and do may not always
be popular. Many of our problems require energy
and sacrifice, and these do not mix easily with
personal ideas of ease and comfort.
But the important thing for Australia’s future
is that our judgments should be right, our vision
clear, our forward-aiming high to the point of
daring —and that we should be capable of having
our national conscience stirred by leaders with the
courage to stir it.
to be moved from the position
shown on the Army maps when
he was a boy, and that the
old tracks fell into disuse when
the Bowen River was bridged.
The present roads were laid
by the shire. Shouldn’t some
provision be made for shire-
councils to notify the Defence
Department of such changes,
so that the Army could enter
an area with reasonably
reliable maps? As the old-
hand snorted in disgust: “If
the b Russians landed
you can bet they’d have better
maps than our own boys!”—
Tabba (Q.).
U.S. Trade-unions Clear
Slums
The announcement of a big
slum-clearance project, spon-
sored by a group of New York
trade-unions, strikes a note
distinctly novel to Australian
ears.
Nobody could accuse the
Australian trade-unions of
apathy in regard to housing
and the associated problems
of slum-clearance, but they
expect the Government to find
the money to do the job. In
America, it seems, the spirit
of self-help has inspired the
unions.
The New York project, how-
ever, is said to be the first in
which a number of them have
banded together to tackle a
large-scale housing-job. The
group known as the
Seward Park Housing Co-
operative—has been formed to
redevelop a run-down area in
Manhattan’s East Side, with
the approval of the New York
Planning Commission and
other authorities.
Briefly, the scheme calls for
the demolition of over 200
sub-standard buildings and the
erection of four 20-story build-
ings containing 1700 apart-
ments of various sizes.
Estimated cost is about £94
million, part of which will be
provided by investment by the
tenants, who will jointly own
and manage the undertaking
on a co-operative basis.
The balance of finance is to
come from mortgage-loans
from banks and the various
sponsoring unions—the local
painters’ union, for instance,
will invest about £1 million in
the project. Union-members
will be given priority in the
allotment of tenancies;
already, it is said, more than
twice as many applications
as there will be apartments
have been received.
If the project succeeds —and
there seems to be no reason
why it shouldn’t —this move-
ment for “clearance of the
slums by working people, for
working people” will probably
be copied by many other union-
groups throughout the U.S.
Is it too much to hope that
something similar might be
attempted here? The trade-
unionist, after all, is vitally
interested in housing; and if
there is anything on which the
trade-union movement in Aus-
tralia is in united agreement
it is that State housing is falling
far short of the workers’ needs.
—Ardoyne (Vic.).
Teaching Languages
“G.R.’s” suggestion that
consideration should be given
to teaching Russian instead of
French as the main modern
language in Australian
secondary schools is unreason-
able.
The argument that “Russia
is turning-out enormous masses
of material in many fields of
research, and most of it is
lost to research-workers in this
country,” ignores the fact that
very few who pass through
secondary school are ever
likely to do scientific research.
A secondary language, there-
fore, needs to have far wider
value. In this respect Russian
cannot compare with French.
Russian literature dates
mainly from the 19th century,
and is relatively narrow in
scope. France has had for
centuries a brilliant, varied
and copious literature.
France has been the princi-
pal cultural force in the Wes-
tern European world ever since
the early Middle Ages, save in
the period 1400-1640, when
Italy temporarily took her
place. This has been the case
in letters, architecture, all
branches of the fine arts and
in political and economic
thought. In scientific achieve-
ment France has also an im-
pressive record.
The old saying “What
France thinks today the world
thinks tomorrow” still has sub-
stantial truth. Even in modern
scientific research and techno-
logical invention France is
well in the forefront, as a
recent “Reader’s Digest” article
pointed out.
French is a language
familiar to the cultivated all
over the world. Only a hand-
ful of persons outside the Iron
Curtain countries know
Russian. — Cunedda (N.S.W.).
School Hours
“Peter Simple’s” suggestion
of a six-day week for schools


(B. 15/7/’59) strikes me as
most admirable —for increas-
ing school accommodation.
At present, with three
months’ annual holidays and a
five-day working-week for nine
months of the year, there is
difficulty in recruiting teachers ;
so it would not be difficult to
imagine how much space there
would be in classrooms (especi-
ally around the teacher’s desk)
under the “Peter Simple”
scheme. — Not So Simple (Q.).
Attitude to Japan
I realise that international
hatred and distrust cannot, and
should not, live for ever ; but,
equally, I can’t work-up any
enthusiasm over the invest-
ment of Japanese capital in
Australian industry, nor over
the protestations of Australians
returning from visits to Japan
that the people there are
wholeheartedly friendly to-
wards Australia and want to
trade with us as a gesture of
goodwill as much as anything
else.
The latest to return with an
assurance that “Australia is
undoubtedly highly regarded
by Japan” is former Federal
Treasurer Sir Arthur Fadden,
who added that he found
among Japanese traders “an
honest consciousness of the
need to avoid any action that
would be damaging to Aus-
tralian domestic industry.”
No doubt that is how the
situation was made to appear
to Sir Arthur, but can we be
assured of Japanese sincerity
in the matter? Frankly, I
doubt it. Japan was our ally
in World War I, and later
made considerable progress in
building-up trade with Aus-
tralia. No doubt we were then
“ Bail-up , Ned Kelly—or be shot down like
the dog you are!"
as “highly regarded’’ as we
are now ; but what lay behind
this “high regard”? The hap-
penings of World War II
supply the answer.
Let us trade with Japan by
all means ; but let us not for
one moment feel under any
obligation to buy as much
from her as she buys from us.
Japan’s population is at leas?
nine times as great as ours,
and continues to increase at a
much faster rate. If we were
to aim at equality of trade
now we would have to go on
increasing our purchases each
year at a much higher rate
than Japan’s—which would
soon involve us in serious trade
difficulties with other coun-
tries.—M. F. Dixon (N.S.W.).
Migrant Colonies
It seems to me that all
criticism of migrant colonies
fails to consider certain essen-
tial factors.
I was once a teacher at an
Australian boarding - school
where there were a number of
Chinese boys. The continual
complaint of the headmaster, at
staff meetings, was that these
Chinese boys formed a clique
among themselves and appar-
ently refused to become whole-
heartedly integrated with the
school. When I asked him
whether, if the position were
reversed and he were among
a small number of Australian
boys in an Asian school, he
would not do likewise, he
replied that he did not think
so. But I know that he would
have behaved much as the
Chinese boys did.
The point in connection with
ego-involvement of this sort is,
first of all, that migrants are
people under stress: in ordinary
circumstances you don’t volun-
tarily abandon your own
country to adopt the nationality
and ways of thought of an-
other. This fact in itself often
creates a hard core of resistance
in the migrant, particularly
against pressure to conform.
In any case, why should the
migrant be expected to give
all, and we to concede noth-
ing? The implication is that
nothing short of a complete
surrender of his former ways
of life and speech will be con-
sidered a satisfactory exchange
for the inestimable boon of
becoming an Australian.—
Schoolmaster (Q.).
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 550
Across
I—A revolting Englishman going to my school. (7)
4—Dook seen backing redskins. (7)
7 A Shakspearian title role gives us the bird. (5)
8— Fondling the preoccupations of the anxious chant. (9)
9 About to have an academician underdone. (4)
10—Mimi’s trial is showing some disposition to quarrel on
a grand scale. (10)
14 —A health resort associated with his Algerian cavalry-
men. (6)
15 — A horse which is hurrying the
bile opener. (8)
16 — Part of the eye has his X cubed
for some Hibernian characteris-
tic. (8)
18 —A structure with a way through
its middle opponent of all
government. (6)
20 —Oil blemish with which King
George relaxes the stomach. (6, 4)
22 —A feline parent turned-up
first. (4)
24 This makes bitter herbs of a
yellowish-brown color beef. (9)
25 — This makes one fishing-basket
credit fish. (5)
26 Dirty relative first mentioned the
article. (7)
27 — Orchestra observed a cutter. (7)
Down
1— Flower occupying the throne
marking with a star for refer-
ence. (11)
2 A second course which may be
chosen to change one bom
here. (11)
3 Seat arranged for direction. (4)
4 I parted with the lost girl in
“The Winter’s Tale.” (7)
5 Used to be running before the
wind having drinks in a revel. (10)
6 Eagles sneer badly. (5)
B—A8 —A nun may wear this business
production of Kipling. (4)
11 —They never stop asking spirit or
pitch rectifiers. (11)
12— Sweet god responsible for 10-
across and his Majesty are to
let. (11)
13— Head things affected bella-
donna. (10)
15 —Stick the countenance up. (3)
17 —South Australia is in the near
future, according to Siegfried. (7)
19 —Stop up kitchenware. (4)
21 —French city. (5)
23 —Look over the small South
Carolina article. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 549.


their dirt and mess, were
replaced by three modern
centrifugal pumps, each push-
ing out 10,000 gallons an hour
at 7501 b. a square-inch.
Today the whole plant vir-
tually runs itself —a classic
example of automation. Where
there used to be roaring
furnaces spinning great, 12-ton,
12ft.-diameter flywheels, with
sweating, grimy stokers work-
ing round-the-clock shifts,
there is now only the subdued
humming of electrical machi-
nery and an occasional sharp
click as switchboards in an
almost antiseptically clean
machine-room automatically
cut the machines in or out.
A staff of two, working a
normal nine-to-five day, keep
an eye on the plant at Pier
Street. The rest of the time, the
outfit can be left unattended.
As the water-level falls in the
Pier Street storage-tank an
electronic signal goes out over
a leased P.M.G. line to the
pumping-station at Waterloo,
and the pump automatically
starts-up, pumps the necessary
amount of water, and cuts-out.
In at Pier Street the three
electric pumps cut-in and cut-
out automatically, according
to the demand. If anything
starts to go amiss when the
plant is unattended at nights
or weekends, the plant itself
automatically sends for help.
But in some ways the most
amazingly automatic feature of
the whole show is the lake that
supplies the water out at
Waterloo. “Lake” is gather a
grandiose title. It is more in
the nature of a moderate-sized
pond, set in a fringe of reeds.
Yet it has met the constant
demands of the Hydraulic
Power Co. for 70 years with-
out. ever looking like going
dry.
Nobody knows quite how it
is replenished, but in even the
worst of drought-seasons it
doesn’t fall below about 6ft.
depth ; normally it is round
the 10ft. mark. These days the
pumping-station draws on the
lake for about 45,000,000
gallons a year. When the
company was delivering its
peak output about 25 years
ago, the lake was supplying
more like 85,000,000 gallons
a year. To date, this seemingly
inexhaustible puddle has
coughed-up an estimated
3,500,000,000 gallons.
The little lake, erstwhile
picnic swimming-spot, has cer-
tainly been a valuable piece of
real estate for shareholders in
the Hydraulic Power Co.,
which has never failed to pay
a dividend, modest though it
has often been, since it declared
its first five-per-cent, divvy in
1892.
And there are elephants with
ears like Pharaoh’s fans . . .
The elephants . . .
The elephant is made of
green velvet.
Hardly able to stand, weak
as a new moth, it does stand
among stained saucers and
worn-down brushes and dead
paint-tubes, among cotton
reels and chocolate boxes, and
spaghetti of wool, and work-
baskets seething with crumples
of silk.
The elephant is of green
velvet.
“You are ill, poor angel!
You are quite ill. You are
“Wouldn’t it, Maisie! He's calling me home again!"
barely able to stand. Elephant,
are you ill? Yes, you are ill.
Are you ill?”
The elephant does not
answer.
“Are you ill? Are you ill?”
Downstairs the burdened
whatnots totter like half-fed
spinsters to listen. She, Jemima
Adelaide Brockel, hears them
and the scuffle of dolls drag-
ging heads along shelves, the
limping cardboard horses, the
creeping garments. She hears
the click of glass eyes, the sigh
of aroused rotten satin, the
mewling of sugar mice, as they
all of them sidle fumbling up
the dusty stairs to lean against
each other outside her door.
“Are you ill? Are you ill?”
The elephant does not
answer.
To her amazement, and
then to her delight, she presses
a pin into him.
£\utside, they thinly squeal
with pleasure and kiss
each other fricatively. The
wind moans, “Oh . . . e-e-e-e!
Oh . . . e-e-e-e! ”
The birds, having nibbled
the wine from the sky, blink
maliciously among the leaves,
listen to the wind and mimic
i{ cunningly in another key,
“Oh . . . e-e-e-e! Oh . . .
e-e-e-e! Oh ...0'... e-e-e!
Oh . . . o . . . e-e-e! Ol’ . . .
Do’ . . . e-e-e! Ol’ . . . Do’
. . . e-e-e!”
Dolls, sawdust, haemorrhag-
ing from their dry bellies, the
scalpless leering dolls gnash
button-teeth and incite by
delirious obscenities all those
outside to raise a wavering
chorus, wind’s chorus, birds’
chorus, shadows’ chorus: “Ol’
Dot . . . e-e-e! Ol’ Dot . . .
e-e-e! Ol’ Dot . . . e-e-e!”
Rage impoisons her. She
shudders vehemently. The
veins on her hands thicken and
writhe like black worms; a
bead of black sweat stings onto
her temple; her brain blazes
black.
“How dare you interrupt!
I am Jemima Adelaide! How
dare you! E-nough!”
Silence. Fear. Panic. Flight.
And the wind too collapses
without a whimper while night
tumbles, devilish and sad face
downward, upon the streets
and the sea.
“Now, you, elephant, answer!
Answer! Are you ill? Are
you ill? Are you ill? Are
you ill? . . .”
She hears herself singing
these words, singing and sing-
ing and singing ; her powers
lie unrippled within her, em-
bryons rich with waiting. She
knows that she has forgotten
to expect an answer; she
knows that, singing, she is
accepting silence instead of
answer. It has always been
so. She sings always and
always has. She sings . . . for
a few moments only.
And then, touched gradually
by her singing, the night opens
its eyes and lifts its face. And
its eyes are greyly opalescent
and chilly, and night’s rising
from the roofs and the waters
is grey and opalescently chill.
She decides to remember who
she is. No one is singing, no
one has sung or will, and she
is the silent She who creates
the little crazed persons that
patter in streets and in and
out of doorways. They throw
themselves onto the beach or
loiter on the wharves or scurry
about the world of corners and
gates that she paints for them,
that she fashions for them.
About her, Jemima Adelaide
Brockel, they circle in adora-
tion and fear.
They dare not come too
near; they are afraid to
knock. They are unable to do
more than traduce her, far
off from her and her secret.
They know —their faces like
raw pies and the taste of their
voices tell her they know . . .
that she has existed from the
beginning and that she alone
is eternal, omnipotent, gifted
with the greatest of gifts.
The greatest of gifts . . .
she remembers. The odor of
her secret overflows her like
a spilling of light. She is strong.
She shakes her goddess’s
gaudiness and rays-out inspired
fingers. She grows stiff and
prodigious and awful; she
rises, an imrhanity luminous
as an aurora, over the elephant
of green velvet. The greatest
of gifts . . .
The dawn listens ; the dawn
and the world are afraid.
“Are you ill?
A nswer ! ”
Convulsed by the last thrust
of her voice, desperate, in a
voice she instantly recognises
for it is hers by right of
creation just as the words it
uses are hers by right of cus-
tom and creation, “Yes, ill!
Yes, illy old Dotty, silly old
Dotty, silly old Dotty!”
shrieks the elephant of green
velvet.


m
MTS
PAOOf,
100% Australian-
made from Aus-
tralian Material
LYSAGHT’S
ESTABLISHED 1884
WIRE NETTING • FENCING WIRE
WIRE NAILS
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Oar MARKER
in every Roll of Netting
,; .'--A , t
?IK. , r ’ l/ $fT T*,' H
;y y;- yy y.y ' - ; ;/'■•- - ; ; ' y
'Vv'
'&*£*ss[£/?*■'■ 't -!r»v- <-■■/,> . :
|j?»k t* * t
* J ! / *- o
' < y - r * -*. f?#
•■•<* " '''»;
•»*» .*, -■ !is&- ,< ia-Sj
, yS £ssp| gssp
BARBED WIRE
ZINC OXIDE
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
LYSAGHT BROS. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Elaekwall Pt. Road,
Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
FORESTRY METHODS
From Colonel E. O. MILNE
South African Methods of
Cultivation, by W. C. Hiley
(Faber), is a detailed analysis
of forestry methods, worthy
of close attention by Austra-
lian capital. Hiley, partly
trained at Yale, has written
other works on forestry, and
A great improvement
in the quality of wool
produced in the U.S.S.R.
has been shown in
recent years. Such is
the impression gained
from several recent
Soviet publications. One
of the points indicated
is a substantial increase
in the proportion of fine
and semi-fine wool.
This may have been
due to large-scale use
of artificial insemina-
tion which of course
permits wider use of
improved breeding rams.
Wool quality may be
improved and lambing
losses cut to a mini-
mum with the use of
Elastrator Rubber Rings
for all marking and
tailing.
in this one his visit to South
Africa is made the occasion
for an exhaustive review of
practice in that country and
comparisons with English
forestry. It is established that
conditions in England would
warrant application of this new
plan.
The thesis is growth in the
quickest time possible, so that
profits may flow in and make
the investment attractive.
The originator of present
South African practice is Dr.
lan J. Graib, who devised a
plan for successive thinning
(allied with pruning) by which
smaller timber is marketed
early for certain purposes.
The space thus made available
contributes to the growth of
the remaining trees, which are
to be felled successively when
suitable for particular needs,
leaving the minimum number,
more widely spaced, to attain
the most useful size for heavier
purposes.
Allied with experiments to
determine the most useful varie-
ties of pine for different soils
and localities have been tests
as to the best' time for thin-
nings, again as to soil and
district. No fewer than 119
species of conifers have been
listed for trial under African
conditions. In the upshot, two
varieties have outstripped all
others — P. caribcea (the slash-
pine of southern U.S.A.) and
P. patula (Mexico).
The driving force in South
African forestry has been low
natural resources, growing
demand for timber, and high
cost of importation. The
situation is thus similar to that
in Australia.
Foresters throughout the
world exchange information so
readily that all are able to
participate in the results of
experiments such as these, and
there is constant movement
towards more effective
methods, earlier marketing and
accelerated maturity.
Planting in South Africa is
at the rate of 530 seedlings an
acre, with thinning to 300 at
eight years, 200 at 12, 130 at
18, and harvest completed at
30 years. Although South
Africa has the considerable
advantage of cheap native
labor, our Forestry Depart-
ments can pay their way and
follow generally the practice
here stated.
The outstanding lesson
derived from this book is the
substantial share taken by
private capital in the timber-
industry. In South Africa in
1957 the State forests totally
518,000 acres, mainly of coni-
fers ; but the planting by
communal and private enter-
prise amounted to 1,387,000
acres, most of it hardwood.
In Australia, forestry is mostly
in the hands of State Depart-
ments, and the share of private'
capital in the actual planting
of trees is only minor. Apart
from Paper Manufacturers,
Ltd., and Calperco at Mount
Gambier (S.A.) —and there
may be other important con-
tributors —little investment has
been made by industry in
forests.
In small ways, there is
growing interest in trees on the
part of local-government
bodies. School forests are
increasingly featured in Vic-
toria. Outstanding examples
are the Ballarat Water Author-
ity, with its planting of a
million trees, and profit of
£132,000 from the timbermill,
and the school forest of 23
acres at Tumut (N.S.W.),- which
has returned £l5OO a year
towards school amenities after
providing for the needs of the
forest.
The . Forestry Advisory
Council of N.S.W. has for
many years been advocating
the establishment of com-
munity forests, primarily for
relief in rating in shires and
municipalities, but also in the
interests of public education as
to the value of trees. The
Australian continent. has the
lowest forest-cover in the
world —only 3 per cent. The
established proportion for
national safety is 30 per cent.
We suffer from the reckless
felling of trees in the past, a
folly that is costing us immense
sums in the importation of
timber to meet our manifold
needs.
It is of the greatest import-
ance to our future, both as
to power and population, that
a great advance be made in
forestry— not merely for inde-
pendence from foreign timbers,
but because the industry
already supports a lot of
people, and should be
immeasurably expanded to
keep pace with the rapidly
growing demand from our
increasing population for
timber in all its forms.
It’s a matter for regret that
the founders of the Federal
Constitution did not provide
for national power to take
charge of forestry. The
Federal Government’s interest
is restricted to a Forestry


CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1808 t'n Reign oj
George 111 .
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
-FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England)
N.S.W. Branch:
8 Spring: Street, Sydney
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne
School at Canberra. Every
State has areas well suited to
the growth of trees, and any
amount of first-class land
capable of giving the maxi-
mum rate of growth. But, as
things are, Hiley’s book is
worthy of study by great cor-
porations, able, through the
magnitude of their resources,
to wait for the return Ihat is
assured.
Although New Zealand's
timber-industry has attracted
Keith Bloomfield (nearest to camera) and George Barnes, of Yeomans Pty., Ltd.,
admiring the 150-million-gallon dam. P. A. Yeomans, who took the photo, said that
a flock of about 100 seagulls flew off the dam as he drove up—an odd sight at Trundle.
Government participation,
private enterprise gave it a
start, and the example across
the Tasman should be sufficient
to cause thinking men to recog-
nise the advantage Australia
would gain by taking-up
forestry seriously as a national
industry.
Writer Recoureec
waTer Resources
Mention (B.
17/6/ '59) of the big dam on
North Bindango, near Roma-
as “Myall" remarks, the largest
water-resources scheme ever
attempted on one property in
Queensland—invites P mention
of Keith Bloomfield's dam at
Mordialloc, Trundle (N.S.W.).
_ r A
Mordialloc is a 1600-acre
sheep-property, but the dam,
which was started by Keith
Bloomfield and finished with
the aid of a contractor, has a
catchment of 2500 acres. It
a 0 ~f. gallons,
ooding 60 acres.
There's a big capital outlay,
of course, for dams of such
size but, on the other hand,
on the right sort of country,
the returns could be very sub-
stantial indeed,
It’s difficult to estimate the
value of irrigated pasture in
£. s. d.—all sorts of imponder-
ables, such as the type of
country, seasons, and the
strategic importance of a
sizeable green patch in general
management come into the
picture but a conservative
figure would be around £250
an acre. Indeed, with values
based on what it costs to
deliver Water to farmers in
large-scale-irrigation areas the
price would be considerably
higher. But, taking the figure
of £250 an acre, on average
grazing-country the cost of
big dams should be quickly
recovered,
Modern techniques, such as
the fitting of outlet-pipes be-
neath and through the wall of
the dam ’ have made a big
difference in the economical
use o£ *! or , ed water ', U " ,il
comparatively recently, when
f/. A ' Yeomans Began using
* ls system on his dams at
1° imcw",
h , R, = h . m ° nd < N - S -W->,
farm-dams did not have outlet-
f'? es ’ alt^ ou S f h ' °, f cou , rse ;
‘ hls metho f ot water-control
was normal in the big com-
m Unity-type dam.
Both ' Keith Bloomfield’s
darn and t j-, e Bindango
dam have the Yeomans lock-
pjp e S y S tem, with heavy steel
flanged pipes, baffle-plates,
gaskets, strainers and take-off
mechanisms. With this system,
it is claimed, a child of 10 can
irrigate hundreds of acres —
just turn the water on and off,
like a garden tap.
Anyone who can put-in this
type of improvement for the
collection and distribution of
w'ater out of current income
is obviously going to do very
well, particularly on long-
slope country. Which raises
the question: what about those
who w'ould like to do it, but
can't raise the finance?
There seems a case for
diverting some of the money
for large Government-financed
water-storage schemes' to
farmers, as loans to store
water on their own land.
Money thus spent would con-
tribute handsomely to national
production and, what's more,
it would come back into the
public purse.
In any case, dams like Keith
Bloomfield’s at Trundle and the
Queensland one near Roma are
pointers to the future. Does
anyone know, by the way,
whether these dams are the
largest on individual properties
in Australia?
Dipping Losses
“Kaytee”: Re “Bilwon” (B.
25/3/’59), modern dipping-
preparations may be practi-
cally non-poisonous when used
at concentrations for control-
ling sheep-parasites, but there
have been big_ losses in cattle
after using some of these
chemicals against cattle-tick.
Fatalities in cattle have
occurred after dipping in
8.H.C., toxaphene, dieldrin
and aldrin. In theory, B.H.C.
is of low toxicity, yet losses
have occurred after dipping
poorly-conditioned cattle in it
on a hot day. The other
three chemicals mentioned
have been responsible mainly
for deaths of calves, and toxa-
phene seems particularly toxic
to calves and dogs. There
have also been losses of sheep
after treatment with aldrin
against lice. All these chlorin-
ated hydrocarbons except
toxaphene, which is a poor
fumigant—can cause poison-
ing by ingestion, skin-absorp-
tion and inhalation. All four
bring on convulsions, followed
by death.
Strangely enough, D.D.T. is
theoretically one ’of the most
toxic of the newer insecticides.
However, because of its low
absorption - rate, practical
chances of poisoning are
remote. The main drawback
in using D.D.T. for agricul-
tural purposes seems to lie in
possible cumulative effects
after continued eating of pro-
ducts treated with the chemi-
cal. Apart from fruit and


No. 14 “ONEIDA”
JUMP TRAP
74in.
0 HU Oja
Jaws
2Jlb,
Outstanding efficiency as Dingo
catcher, well established. Available
from woolbroking houses through-
out Australia.
Further particulars from
R. J. MURPHY,
Box 555, G.P.0., Townsville, Q.
Sole Agent for Australia.
T utor / Book-keeper
Retired Army Officer, ex
Army Schoolteacher, seeks
post teaching N children and
keeping accounts. Outback
or country, any State, for
family or community —■
moderate salary.
Box No. 297,
C/o Bulletin, 252 George St.,
SYDNEY.
vegetables, these include milk-
products and fat meat from
animals which have been fed
continuously on forage-crops
treated with D.D.T. There’s
no proof that dairy-products
assume high concentrations of
D.D.T. after cattle are sprayed
at recommended strengths.
Of the organic phosphates,
malathion and diazinon appear
to be safe, but parathion is
toxic and shouldn’t be used on
animals.
Poisonous Plants
“Billjim”: It’s rare that
stock are poisoned by plants ;
when losses do occur they
sometimes come from forage-
crops or from plants grown in
the garden.
For instance, nitrate-poison-
ing may be caused by oaten
hay which has been exposed
to the air when damp. Gener-
ally only cattle are affected by
this form of poisoning, though
pigs also sometimes suffer.
Immature turnip-tops, green-
feed-oats and mangel-roots can
affect cattle and pigs ; short-
rotation rye-grass, in combina-
tion with rape, can cause
trouble in sheep.
Nitrate-poisoning can also
come from winged and varie-
gated thistles. Its noticeable
symptoms are the chocolate
color of blood from a sick or
dead animal.
Fodder-beet poisoning can
kill stock. The maximum safe
intake of fresh beet has been
shown (o be 61b. for a 1001 b.
sheep and 601 b. for a 10001 b.
cattle-beast. Bracken-fern, too,
can poison farm-animals,
though they need to have fed
on the fern for a month or
two before they build-up
enough toxin in their systems
to cause damage. The fern
causes extensive haemorrhage,
for which no cure has yet been
discovered.
The rhododendron is toxic
to most animals, particularly
sheep. Its emetic effect will
even make a goat sick. Other
plants that need watching are
the hemlock-thistle (poisonous
also to humans), the English
yew-tree and ragwort. There’s
no treatment for the last-
named, and the only remedy
is to get rid of it quickly on
any infested country. Poison
from this plant can also come
through contaminated hay,
dried grass or pasture. A
popular counter is to stock
with sheep at a high rate to
the acre and get the weed
eaten-out quickly. It’s best to
use a mobile flock, in which
sheep are fattened and sold
before liver-damage (a conse-
quence of this poisoning) is
severe enough to cause out-
right losses.
It’s a sound maxim of stock-
management to treat all lesser-
known garden - plants as
potentially poisonous until
experience has proved them
safe.
San Jose Scale in W.A.
“Pieter Nuyts”: Two years
ago San Jose scale was a
nuisance to W.A. fruitgrowers,
but not a serious pest. Then
some European countries
imposed quarantine embargoes
on all scale-infested fruit —
and immediately San Jose
stepped alongside codling-moth
and fruit-fly as a public enemy.
The Department of Agricul-
ture led the attack with full-
scale experiments aimed at
complete destruction. ' The
majority of growers recognised
the seriousness of this threat
to their industry, and sprayed,
taking the department’s recom-
mendations as a guide.
What they didn’t appreciate
was that those recommenda-
tions weren’t intended as a
guide —they were meant to be
regarded as the necessary mini-
mum. Very few growers
sprayed anywhere near as
thoroughly as the departmental
officers did on their trial-
orchards, and probably none
used as much spray on each
tree.
The result was that, not
getting the same results, they
claimed the recommendations
were at fault.
To get this pest where it lives
you have to do more than
spray the trees —you have to
almost saturate them. The
department’s recommendations
for apples and pears are:
superior-oil—preferably forti-
fied by the addition of gusa-
-thion, diazinon or parathion—
at the rate of 3gals. to lOOgals.
water ; or lime-sulphur, lOgals.
to lOOgals. water.
Where the pest has a good
hold apply lime-sulphur dur-
ing August, and follow a
month later with superior-oil.
The final spraying shouldn’t be
later than the first week in
September.
In addition to this winter
■spraying it may be necessary
to spray during summer for
crawlers, using superior-
summer-oil or white-oil, with
the addition of one of the fol-
lowing: gusathion 25 per cent,
wettable powder at 21b. to
lOOgals. ; diazinon 20 per
cent, concentrate, 2 pints to
lOOgals.; or parathion 20 per
cent. concentrate —dangerous
to handle, so read the manu-
facturers’ instructions carefully
—2 pints to lOOgals.
Spray late in November, in
mid-January and in late
February. If you’re spraying
stone-fruits —and you should
if the scale is on your property
—a pp 1 y lime - sulphur or
superior-oil before bud-burst.
That treatment should con-
trol the scale, provided it’s
applied • thoroughly —possibly
up to 2gals. a tree —and it
should be kept going for at
least two years. Then you
should be able to market fruit
that will be acceptable in any
market.
San Jose scale will breed on
a variety of fruit-trees, and
even on some ornamental
garden-shrubs ; so it pays to
spray every plant which could
be harboring the pest.
Controlling Weeds
“Sundowner*’: It’s not
noxious weeds that do most
harm. Farmers generally
recognise the importance of
keeping these down, and it’s
nuisance weeds —silver-grass,
capeweed and Yorkshire-fog
and suchlike—that eventually
do the damage. All those
species give some feed, but
pastures do much better if
they’re removed completely.
Best plan is to destroy them
on sight.
Discussing the whole sub-
ject, two South Australian
weed-control officers, A. F.
Tudeman and J. M. O’Neil,
stress the following points:
Don’t buy hay from infected
properties ; check cereal grains
before sowing, and watch for
second-grade clover-seed, which
will probably contain nuisance
weeds and possibly noxious
ones as well; stock brought on
to a property may carry burrs,
and so may contractors’
machinery if it hasn’t been
cleaned before leaving the last
property.
Apart from normal methods
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(23/7/’59)
Queensland’s rainfall may vary from moderate to good
during August, with best falls in the south-western districts,
but possibly light in the Curtis division, central-coast and
far-western districts. Good rains should extend into part
of the far south-western districts during October. A good
season is indicated in much of the State.
N.S.W. should have moderate to good rains during
August, with best falls on 'the south-west slopes and
Riverina, though the South Coast and part of the far-western
districts may get only light rain. Moderate to good rains
should continue in September and October, with heavy falls
and widespread flooding during November.
Victoria should get good general rains during August,
falls being heaviest in the central, north-eastern and western
divisions; flooding is likely in the southern half of the State.
Good rains are indicated in the agricultural areas of
South Australia during August, with light to moderate falls
in the Murray Valley and west-coast areas. Rainfall may
be poor in the north interior.
. In Western Australia the s.-w. agricultural areas should
have good rain in August, although falls may be light and
patchy elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


It’s got the lot . . .
It’s a Tilley!
There’s only one kind of portable kerosene heater worth having—the
best! And that’s the Tilley. It’s warmer, cleaner, safer ... and it burns
for 12 hours on only 1£ pints of kerosene. The Tilley Portable Pressure-
Kerosene Heater is a first-class engineering product. . . and 100 %
British Made.
£8.8.0
(freight extra outside
metropolitan area)
1
El
t —7v
\ h
REGD.
TRUST TILLEY
for lighting and heating
Obtainable from all good hardware stores throughout Australia. In ease of difficulty
write for name of your nearest stockist to;—
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 Mount Alexander Road, Essendon, Victoria.
“He says, ‘What tribe you belong?' ”
oi control weed - burner,
coarse-salt, weedicides and soil
sterilants they advocate the
use of chemicals to attack wide-
spread infestation, but urge
caution here, because of the
expense involved and of pos-
sible losses in-yield.
As an alternative they sug-
gest a modification of farm-
management. To prevent
weeds setting seed, and to give
better use of pastures, they
recommend topping during
mowing and early haymaking,
followed by grazing to prevent
seeds forming in the regrowth.
They say that cultivation is
good, provided it’s correctly
timed, and quote the example
of Cape-tulip, which can be
destroyed in three years by
ploughing mid-June to July
and cultivating a month later
—this still allows time for
sowing cereals or fodder-crops.
Incorrect cultivation, though,
can defeat its aim; if early
fallow is worked-down too fine
too soon, weed-growth is
encouraged.
Their suggested answer is
long-term pasture. But they
point out that, while lucerne
will eliminate skeleton-weed,
land left too long under pas-
ture is liable to invasion by
other pests, notably onion-
weed. So, when choosing
pasture-seed, they advise
farmers to look ahead and con-
sider the possible effect of
future use of chemicals. Their
conclusion is that the best
species to sow are vigorous
growers, which will thrive while
weeds are making the greatest
headway.
Soil-types are important—
for instance, ironstone soils suit
rye-grass better than phalaris,
and phalaris and strawberry-
clover will push out docks and
Yorkshire-fog in waterlogged
ground. Time of sowing is
another factor to be considered
—lucerne and phalaris are best
sown in spring, rye-grass in
autumn. To ensure weed-
control the best grazing-practice
is to keep to small paddocks,
with a watering-point.
If these suggestions are fol-
lowed and weeds still are not
destroyed, Tudeman and
O’Neil suggest that farmers
should check whether their
pasture seeding-rates are high
enough, or whether they are
applying enough super. Other-
wise, they say, it’s lack of trace-
elements or else control of
pests that needs attention.
Pollinating Pawpaws
“Northerner”: The paw-
paw’s primary flower-types are
staminate (male), pistillate
(female) and hermaphrodite.
Each flower of the male tree
carries several stamens —long
threadlike strands in which
pollen is produced. Those of
the female tree carry five petals
each and a pistil, which is the
embryo of the pawpaw-fruit.
Hermaphrodite trees bear
blossoms like the female tree
and carry both pistil and
stamens.
In a plantation of pawpaws
generally about 10 per cent,
of the trees are male and pol-
lination is brought about by
wind-currents which transfer
the pollen. If a female flower
is not pollinated, its fruit will
be small and will soon turn
yellow and drop to the ground.
Lack of stability in the
flower-type of pawpaw-trees is
fairly common. Thus, a female
tree may produce male or
hermaphrodite flowers, while a
male tree may produce
hermaphrodite flowers, and a
hermaphrodite tree put forth
male or female flowers, leading
to a proportion of sterile
flowers. To overcome this
trouble, hand-pollinate be-
tween trees with a record of
consistent bearing.
Rice
“Second Shackle”: How far
South can rice be profitably
grown? The N.S.W. Agricul-
tural Department says the
most southerly irrigation-
centre is a tiny one at Barham,
not far from the Murray.
Travelling along the little-
used river-road, almost mid-
way between Mulwala and
Corowa (N.S.W.) and less than
half-a-mile from the Murray’s
northern bank, I was amazed
to-see land being prepared for
conversion into rice-paddies
for the annual October plant-
ing. This is over 100 miles
south of the Leeton-Griffith
area, hub of Australian rice-
growing.
Estimated yield for this
year’s rice-harvest, on the
authority of a departmental
spokesman, will total between
80,000 and 90,000 bushels,
which will provide for
domestic needs and leave a
sizeable whack for export.
Since rice is grown through-
out Japan to around latitude
45deg. North, there’s no reason
why, with similar conditions
for growth and ripening, it
shouldn’t be cultivated to
latitude 45deg. South, which
certainly offers all Australia—
including Tasmania —a more
than fair go.
“J J.A.”Probably many
sows accused of eating their
young have been innocent, and
the real villains, where pigs
farrow in the open, have been
crows. The remedy is to
restrict the piglets’ run and
roof it over with wire-netting.
There are four-legged thieves
too, who have a liking for very
young pork ; so it’s best to be
on the look-out.


Legal Notices
IN THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE
METROPOLITAN DISTRICT
HOLDEN AT SYDNEY.
No. 20148 of 1959.
BETWEEN WARWICK KENT
MALLICK Plaintiff AND DESMOND
MASIK Defendant.
TO DESMOND MASIK of “Merrimba”
Station Warren.—TAKE NOTICE that
a plaint has been entered and a sum-
mons issued against you in the District
Court of the Western District Holden
at Dubbo which has been ordered to be
transferred to this Court by Warwick
Kent Mallick of “Merrimba” Station
Warren against you for damages and
an order has been made that personal
service of the summons be dispensed
with and that publication of a notice
in the Sydney Morning Herald news-
paper and Bulletin newspaper respect-
ively shall be deemed to be service of
the summons on you The summons will
be heard at the Metropolitan District
Court Queen’s Square Sydney on the
First day of September 1959 at ten
o’clock in the forenoon on which day
you are required to appear and if you
do not appear either in person or by
your Solicitor at the time and place
abovementioned such order will be
made and proceedings taken as the
Judge may think just and expedient.
DATED this 27th day of July, 1959.
C. E. CHAPMAN, Registrar.
ESTATE OF GEORGE MARTIN
INFORMATION is sought regarding a
WILSON MARTIN, who was bom in
Ireland, went to Australia and is be-
lieved to have died approximately 1918.
Would anyone knowing the date and
place of his death, or the names and
addresses of his children, please com-
municate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, P.O. Box 429, Dunedin,
New Zealand.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RICHARD LINDSAY DAWSON late
of 32 Raglan Street Waterloo. —TAKE
NOTICE that SHIRLEY LILLIAN
DAWSON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1331 of 1959 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Old Mint Build-
ing Macquarie Street, Sydney by the
6th October 1959 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
McMASTER HOLLAND & CO., Soli-
citors, of 129 Pitt Street, Sydney. —
J. DOUG HAN, Registrar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words of “The Rose of No
Man’s Land” and “Black Eyed
Susan.” —6857.
To get in touch with Frank
Hayes, who came to live in Aus-
tralia about 30 years ago.
Brother inquiring.—6856.
Information Supplied
(From “Terry the Tory”): Fur-
ther to the “Service Department”
par. about Judge Jeffreys (B.
22/7/’59) in which it was remarked
that, in reference to his conduct at
the trials following the 1685 Mon-
mouth Rebellion, “the savagery of
Jeffreys’s behavior made his name
a byword.” In this rising, punish-
ment of the defeated was hardly
any more severe than in most other
rebellions in English history. Nor
was Jeffreys’s judicial conduct out-
rageous.
Jeffreys wasn’t the only judge
to deal with the rebels: there were
four others. In his study of Jeffreys
Montgomery Hyde remarked that
“it has never been suggested that
the condemned were wrongly con-
victed.” James 11, the sovereign
Jeffreys served, was overthrown,
within three years of the suppres-
sion of the rising (1688), by his son-
in-law, William of Orange, who
became King William 111. The
new regime tried to blacken the
record of its predecessor, and the
account of the Monmouth Rebel-
lion, together with its aftermath,
won popular credence. In the
present century it has been sub-
jected to destructive criticism by
a number of able students of the
period.
J. G. Muddiman’s The Bloody
Assizes (1929), for example, is
decidedly favorable to Jeffreys:
Jeffreys was a great judge, a great
lawyer, and a great man, the trusted
confidant of one king, and the neglected
adviser of another. His condemnation
was unjust, the result of the lips of the
mean scamps of the Axe Yard clique.
Every great lawyer who has examined
Jeffreys’s decisions is favorable. Lord
Birkenhead says of him that he per-
formed his work without passion or
ill-will.
Jeffreys was singled-out for
opprobrium because the Stuart
dynasty had no more able or
zealous supporter. His measures
in the last years of the reign of
Charles II had virtually destroyed
the Whig enemies of the Stuarts as
a political force. In Muddiman’s
words:
The Whigs hated Jeffreys because they
realised how formidable an opponent
he was. Jeffreys was the great up-
holder of the Royal Prerogative. His
advice brought about the downfall of
the Whigs.
Eva Scott points out, in her Six
Stuart Sovereigns, that “the dis-
tricts where Jeffreys held h>s assizes
showed great loyalty to 'James at
the time of William’s landing.”
A note in The Student’s Hume
remarks of the atrocity stories
against Jeffreys, and his military
colleague, Kirke, that
Many of them were gross exaggera-
tions ; many were fabrications to serve
the purpose of the Revolution, and
render the reign of James more odious
by the contrast. It was in Somerset-
shire, and at Taunton in particular, that
James II found his warmest adherents
in 1092.
Information Sought
Were the Halle Society and the
Halle Orchestra formed to honor
the birthplace of Handel ?
No. They have no connection.
The Halle Society of Manchester
was formed in 1857 to finance and
manage the concerts- founded by
Sir Charles Halle, under whose
guidance the performances became
a landmark in the north of Eng-
land, the orchestra and its con-
ductor extending their activities to
other cities. Sir Charles Halle
(originally Carl Halle, born West-
phalia, Germany, 1819) was a
pianist and conductor, a friend of
Chopin and Liszt, who, leaving
Paris after the Revolution of 1848,
settled in England, nine years later
forming the Halle Orchestra. As
well as regularly conducting he gave
piano-recitals. In 1883 he suc-
ceeded Max Bruch as conductor
of the Liverpool Philharmonic
Society. He toured Australia in
1890-91. He died in 1895.
* * * *
Method of tanning sheepskin (a)
leaving the wool on; (b) how to
remove the wool; (c) how to bleach
the wool; (d) how to remove
the brand; (e) methods of dyeing
the wool, and (f) will tanned skins
stand the boiled methods of dyeing ?
(a): Wash and shake-out skins;
if they have been dried, soak them
in cold water first. Dissolve 12oz.
alum and Boz. salt in igal. boiling
water. Mix flour to a paste
with cold water, stir into the other
mixture and make-up to lgal.
Cpat the skins liberally with this
mixture on the flesh-side every day
for four days, folding skin-to-skin
during the process, and then dry-
out. Pull into shape, rub in neats-
foot-oil if stiff and trim-up. (h):
Mix, in proportion, 301 b. lime to
lOOgals. water. Soak the skins in
this for about six or seven days;
the wool should then come off b’y
scraping. While the skins are
soaking, move them about with a
stick every day. Wash clean, (c)
and ( d): Thorough scouring in
water containing ammonia should
do the trick. If obstinate, paint
the marks first with kerosene and
wash this out quickly. Brand-
removal is a bit of a headache;
you’ll have to experiment. (e):
Any packet-dye can be used, ratio
approx, one packet to one skin.
The wool should be slightly damp.
Use a shallow vessel and swish
only the wool in it, keeping the skin
as far as possibe clear. (/): For
amateur work the previous method
is recommended. Commercially,
wool-products go through many
heat-processes. Most home-tanners
prefer a pure-white mat —easiest to
produce and quite stylish.
* * * *
How to prepare a snakeskin for
belt-making ?
Soak skin in water for two days,
then place in solution of 31b.
slaked-lime to lOgals. water.
Handle skins each day until scales
can be scraped off the skin. Wash
well and scrape-off all loose flesh.
Tan in a jar, using weak, clean
wattle-bark liquid obtained from the
bark with cold water. Wash after
tanning. After tanning, lay skin
out smooth and flat on a board and
give it a light coat of oil, then
allow to dry. If skin receives too
much oil reduce by immersing for
lOmin. in petrol. To finish, give
skin a coat of thick starch solu-
tion, and press with ordinary
domestic iron on the scale side.
Brief Answers
8.8. W.: Hammond was a pro-
fessional until 1938, when he was
granted amateur status. He cap-
tained England against the Austra-
lian XI in England and on the
M.C.C. team’s 1946-47 tour of
Australia.... G.T.: Wompinni is abo-
riginal for “sheltered from heat”....
W.S.D.: Verse beginning “I’m sick
of fog and yellow gloom” is entitled
“Homesick,” and was written by
Dorothea Frances McCrae. It is
included in the anthology, The Wide
Brown Land, edited by Joan and
George Mackaness... .N.N.: That
quotation is from Byron’s “Childe
Harold”... .J.M.L.: The color-
defect would be caused by the
plant’s being kept too long in the
shade V.K.: Leaflets giving
general information on poultry-
farming are available from the
Department of Agriculture,
9 Farrer Place, Sydney....
G.A.: Renwick and Simpson-Lee’s
The Economic Pattern is as good
a textbook on economics as you’ll
find. Published Longmans, 255. 6d.
... .F.R.: Lacrosse originated
among the Red Indians of North
America. It became Canada’s
national game during the first half
of the 19th century, and was intro-
duced to Australia in 1874
T.P.: Write to the Chamber of
Manufactures, 12 O’Connell Street,
Sydney... .H.C.D.: (1) No infor-
mation. (2) and (3) Get in touch
with Angus and Robertson, Ltd.,
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
L.F.: Gravel used as coarse aggre-
gate for cement should range in
size from |in. to 3in. in diameter.
For walls or similar structures the
size of the stones to the thickness
of the work in hand should be in
the ratio of 1 to 5; diameter of
stones should not exceed lin. for
a sin. wall. For plain concrete
floors or yards make the ratio 1 to
3; diameter of stones up to 2in.
for a 6in. floor. In mass concrete
work don’t try to mix-in stones
over 3in. in diameter H.M.:
“For the Fallen” was written by
Laurence Bjnyon and set to music
by Elgar... .P.L.D.: Try to resolve
the matter without recourse to a
solicitor G.C.: Write to the
hon. secretary, N.S.W. Canoeing
Association, 71 Emmerick Street,
Leichhardt, Sydney..
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor,
thinks necessary.
A.J.H.: A little criticism for your
little poem? Well, it’s all right,
but it’s little... .R.J.McD.: Both
have energy... .G.S.: You made a
good job of that narrow line....
A.P.Z.: “Climber” nearly made it.
The others, as well as having
language difficulties, don’t get far
enough beyond the merely descrip-
tive Anon: On, on, Anon:
A NEW SONG OF AUSTRALIA.
Sing of Australia, land of plenty
oi poor —a half-million now, another
at the door ;
Their life’s ambition consigned to per-
dition ;
Struggling on small pension or super-
annuation
They blame politicians for ruinous in-
flation.
Sing of Australia, land of hope
save for the abandoned fixed-income
dope
Who’s cheated and fleeced whenever
rates are increased
Whose prayer oft pleaded by Can-
berra unheeded,
Who's swindled till to zero values have
dwindled.
N.L.: The construction is too
obvious. Concentrate on getting a
more even f10w... .I.B.: The fisher-
men in gumboots squelched out
of the office R.W.: Much too
long; shorten and aim for a more
humorous approach P.T.: You
bounced in with a good start, but
the development and subsequent
climax were muddled... .H.H.:
Well, the dialogue was poorly
handled; and an Australian setting
would probably be better....
A.J.L.: It’s an unusual storm-poem,
but hardly more than an idea.


New Recordings
More Stereo
Coronet has issued its first
batch of stereophonic record-
ings (or, more properly, “stereo-
fidelity” recordings), and
very good they are, too.
Eschewing “novelty” - type
disks such things, for in-
stance, as a game of table-
tennis, with the ball ping-pong-
ing from speaker to speaker—
the company has five colorful
labels in this first release.
In many ways Music of
Cuba (KLLS 597), with Percy
Faith and his orchestra, is the
pick of the bunch. On the
first side ‘ Malaguena” grows
mysteriously out of virtually
nothing ; suddenly the castanets
come springing from between
the two speakers and the tempo
quickens. Then the mood
softens, and a guitar throbs
steelily out of the right-hand
speaker. So it goes: at all
times there is a “presence” and
a heightened fidelity that makes
comparison with old 78 r.p.m.
recordings laughable.
The third track on this first
side (“El Manisero”) is a
brilliant if rather noisy example
of fast-beat playing by an
apparently innumerable array
of kettle-drums, bongo-drums,
Congo-drums—and, of course,
trumpets. And the next one
(“Danza negra”) shows you
how effective drum-syncopa-
tion can be, provided the under-
instrument (in this case a flute)
is able to maintain metronomic
time. “El Bodeguero,” which
looks suspiciously like “The
Bougie,” is, appositely enough,
pve-rnusic, with a fascinating
bieak for flute ; and Damisela
Encantadora, the last tracx
ls Sl^e ’ 1S m °re medita-
tiv.e anc *. str ingy in flavor,
spiced with a tinkling xylo-
Pd° ne -
The reverse-side starts with
“Siboney,” a part-gentle, part-
heated little number ; the next,
‘ La Cumparsa,” is so
vigorously scored for drums
that, when the record was first
played, the cat, asleep by the
fire, woke-up fast with ears
pressed flat on his head. There
is a lot of racy—and expert—
playing before the last number,
“Tabu,” which, although it’s
well done and although it tries
its hardest to be alluring, is
really less interesting than
many of the previous things,
Sound Ideas, with Les and
Larry Elgart and their
orchestra (KLPS 691) exploits
the Western beat. Perhaps the
playing isn’t as fresh as Percy
Faith’s, but that may be be-
cause Cuban music is more of
a novelty. On the second
track (“When the Sun Comes
Out”) Larry Elgart comes out
with an alto-sax., and the
contrast between smooth solo
and edgy ensemble is quite
enjoyable. Musical purists
might notice a preponderance
of “nightclub-sixths” and
diminished-sevenths, but at all
times the engineering is tops,
and, besides a generally good
balance of tonal colors, there
are patches of effective separa-
tion —notably in “You’re My
Thrill” and, on the reverse side,
“Technicolor Dream” and
“Light Flight.”
Right from the start of
Patterns (Frank Comstock and
his orchestra ; KLPS 705) you
notice the unusual; in “Am I
Blue?” there is a solo-passage
for contra-bassoon! The disk
contains a selection of fairly
well-known numbers things
like “Smoke Rings,” “Love Is
Just Around the Corner” and
“Sometimes I’m Happy.”
Again, the sound is first-rate
and, if you like a beat applied
with the forceful skill of Ben
Bolt, you’ll find it here.
On KLPS 743 Broadway in
Rhythm, Ray Conniff, his
orchestra and his chorus are
faintly disappointing Mr.
Conniff’s obvious talents are
surely wasted on well-worn
-favorite tunes? Here he does
some incredible things with
tunes from “South Pacific,”
“My Fair Lady,” “Oklahoma”
and “The King and I.” The
incessant brush-drum tends to
jar a bit; and, when all’s said
and done, the original musical
versions of these shows are the
thing to go by. That is not
to say the record is second-
rate: as a party-disk it would
be lopnotch. And, while one
may not altogether agree with
Conniff’s treatments, he comes
up with some interesting effects
the brass scoring, while often
blatant, is occasionally rich,
and the piano is used through-
out with discretion.
Final record in this batch
is Grofe’s “Grand Canyon”
Suite, beautifully played by the
Philadelphia under Ormandy.
The most obvious characteristic
of this work is its imaginative
orchestration. Never having
seen the Grand Canyon, one is
at a loss as to its size, grandeur,
etc. but Grofe variously
makes it seem vast, colorful
and rainy. The “Cloudburst”
movement (No. 5) conveys the
feeling, as well as the actual
sounds, of a sudden storm;
this is achieved largely through
long vibrato violin passages
allied with violent brass out-
bursts. Again, “On the Trail”
(No. 3) is nicely evocative
you can just about see the
horse. If they ever produce
records which, while pla-ying,
simultaneously throw images
on a screen, here’s one bit of
music on which such treatment
would be superfluous!
+♦< * *
Doris—and Ken
Sung by Doris Day, two hits
from the film “It Happened to
Jane” are available on a 7in.
45 r.p.m. Coronet. In the title-
tune Miss Day, with her usual
smiley - sparkly style, sings
about love being like an “April
show-wer” and a “summer
flow-wer.” The song on the
reverse-side, “Be Prepared,” is
a sort of sugar-coated pop.-pill:
it' urges youngsters to give-up
seats in buses, not to fight,
smile at the teacher, etc., etc.
Reward? The last line of
every verse: “And you’ll be a
real good scout.”
Another seven-incher (KFP
147) has Ken Griffin cooking
three chestnuts on a Wurlitzer.
The tunes are “You Can’t Be
True, Dear,” “Side by Side”
and “You. You, You.” —A. W.
THE HOĹIDAVS
"Hullo, Air. and Airs. Holliday! Sack again? You re certainly gluttons for punishment!"


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
The spirit of Governor Macquarie
and his lady seemed to be abroad all last
week, and when the beautiful St. James’
Church held special commemorative-
services, it didn’t take an over-vivid
imagination to hear the rustle of crino-
lines along its aisles. Those who dearly
admire this Greenway church will wel-
come the suggestion that it should be
enclosed in a square. At present visitors
are in danger of being run-down by a
swirling onrush of cars if they pause too
long on the crossing outside to admire
its slender spire and satisfying lines.
It was little wonder that Mrs. Mac-
quarie continued to haunt the mind at
the Macquarie Club on Friday, when
Swiss Consul-General Hedinger and Mrs.
Hedinger held a reception there for their
country’s national celebration —her
picture on the wall of the reception-
room showed her wearing what is de-
creed now to be the very latest of styles,
and the selfsame fichu-like collar and
mob-cap were seen in several different
versions on smartly-dressed women at
the party.
Guests included Consuls and their
wives ; among the latter Mrs. M. Yuval
looking very glamorous in a hand-
woven dress of silver lame, with which
she wore heavy silver jewellery. Mrs.
Frank Waring wore an elegant dress of
fine black wool under her mink stole,
and black was also the choice of Mrs.
R. J. Heffron, there with her husband,
the Deputy Premier, who as Minister for
Education was having a particularly
busy week. Also present was Lady
Boyer, who had plenty of news
to give about the women’s organisations
in which she is so active, and who is
evidently making up for time lost during
her recent illness by working harder
than ever for their objectives. Dr. and
M rs. H. D. Black were there, and Mr.
and Mrs. S. F. Kellock. To receive
guests, Mrs Hedinger wore a dress of
pure amethyst-silk and a feathered wig-
hat of a deeper shade.
☆ ☆ ☆
Seldom has an artist appealed more
to Sydney audiences than American
soprano Mattiwilda Dobbs, whose final
concert at the Town Hall on Saturday
night brought such a frenzy of applause
that it seemed she would never be
allowed to leave the platform. As well
as her glorious voice, the singer’s taste in
dress has made a popular conversation-
theme ; opinion is divided as to which
of the three dresses she wore was the
loveliest. For her opening concert it
was a fairy-like dress of Paris-pink
nylon-tulle, its full flounces banded with
satin. The full-length off-white satin
worn by her at the next concert was
embroidered with baskets of flowers in
pastel colors; its shoulder-straps were
of petunia satin, which was also used
for the swathed sash which gave an
Empire-line to its bodice. The dress in
which the singer appeared at her final
concert was breathtakingly lovely; of
white tulle, it was made in three tiers,
with a long, strapless bodice of white
satin, encrusted with rhinestones. Matti-
wilda wore with it a long stole of tulle,
and a single string of gleaming pearls.
“Never a dull moment,” is the com-
ment on her job at Crown Street Women’s
Hospital by Mrs. Mary Torpy, recently
appointed its publicity-officer. The
remark rather astonishes her many
friends, for she came to Sydney a few
months ago after spending nearly a year
in Indo-China, Bangkok, Hong Kong and
Kuala Lumpur. While at Saigon, where
she stayed with her sister and brother-
in-law, Commander and Mrs. A. N.
Dollard, Mrs. Torpy often went on tiger-
hunts, and has some exciting experiences
to talk about. Now working enthusiasti-
cally to help swell funds of the
hospital, she was very elated at the
success of the fashion-show she helped
to promote last week, and is full of plans
for the annual fete in November. A
Victorian by birth, Mrs. Torpy is a
horsewoman and is fond of golf and
tennis, but declares sailing is her first
love. Last weekend she was one of the
working-crew in the Cruising Yacht Club
Race.
Education Week is in full swing, and
its influence appears to be swaying even
the tardy scholar, while proud parents
are descending upon all the schools in
enthusiastic groups and meeting in
cordial fashion their teaching-staffs. For
the first time, there will be Open Day
for parents at the Lorna Hodgkinson
Sunshine Home, Gore Hill, where 140
sub-normal children are resident, and
are there receiving an education for
living, since they cannot achieve formal
education. Those who can learn to read
are taught to recognise signs like
“Danger” and “Cross Here,” and the
accent generally is on social graces, self-
respect and security for the individual
child.
☆ ☆ ☆
At a private hospital in Adelaide on
July 10, shortly before her 82nd birth-
day, the death occurred of Edith Nina
Irwin, who as Edith Morris was, with
her elder sister Mary Elizabeth, a
co-founder of C. of E. Girls’ Grammar
School in Melbourne. “Miss Edith,”
beloved of hundreds of old scholars, was
co-headmistress, first of Merton Hall,
then of C.E.G.G.S. from 1898 until she
resigned in 1912 to be married. Her
sister, who predeceased her, was also 82
when she died two years ago.
# V V
The social highlight of the forth-
coming annual State Congress of the
R.S.L. will be the Victory Ball, proceeds
of which will help the Northcott Centre
and R.S.L. welfare fund. The ball will
be held at the Trocadero on August 13,
when 21 debs, will be presented to the
Governor, Sir Eric Woodward, and Lady
Woodward. Matron-of-honor is Sister
Park, whose war-service was gained in
New Guinea and at Morotai. Last year
Sister Park was elected to the highest
position that can be held by a woman
in the R.S.L.—Women’s Service State
Councillor. Decorations planned for the
ball will include thousands of blue-and-
gold flags, and masses of daffodils, most
of which will be sent from country sub-
branches of the league in N.S.W. It
is expected there will be about 1500
people at the ball, many of whom will
come from country areas as far away as
Menindee, Eden and Murwillumbah.
Double-ticket is £3, and further details
may be had from R. A. Sansom,
honorary-organiser, at Anzac House,
Sydney.
#' V V
Sydney Conservatorium Opera School
will present Gounod’s “Faust” for a short
season commencing on Saturday
(August 8), with further performances
on August 11, 13 and 15. Sir Bernard
Heinze will be the conductor, with
Stefan Haag as producer. Choreography
is by Jean Dembitzka, and Maurice
Sullivan is scenic artist. Reservations for
the opera can be made at Palings and
Nicholson’s.
☆ ☆ ☆
A formal dinner-party at Prince’s on
August 15 before the gala-premiere of
the Bolshoi Ballet to aid funds of the
Australian Elizabethan Theatre Trust
Ball Committee has been arranged by
Mrs. Ken Hall and her fellow-members.
Another fund-raiser for the same cause
will be a garden-inspection day at the
home of Margaret Gillespie at Turra-
murra early in September.


MELBOURNE
Queen’s Hall, Parliament House, was
the setting for the late-afternoon recep-
tion given by the Victorian Government
for overseas visitors who attended the
convention of the Law Council of Aus-
tralia held in Perth. Mr. Arthur Rylah,
Chief Secretary and Attorney-General,
with Mrs. Rylah, received the guests,
among whom were Lord Justice Pearce
and Lady Pearce, and Mr. Justice
Harlan, of the U.S. Supreme Court, and
Mrs. Harlan.
A frock of beige wool with a swathed
bodice caught by a jewelled clasp was
chosen by Lady Pearce, who wore with
it a small matching satin hat and short
jacket of dyed-ermine. With her
Eastern-patterned silk suit Mrs. Harlan
wore a black net “fascinator” trimmed
with black velvet bows. Mrs. Rylah’s beige
frock was slashed across the front of
the bodice with deep-green and red satin,
and her beige satin hat repeated the
red-and-green motif. The Chief Justice
of Victoria, Sir Edmund Herring, and
Lady Herring were in the official party.
Others present included Mr. Justice
Monahan and JVlrs. Monahan ; Judge
Gamble and Mrs. Gamble; Mr. Noel
Burbank, Q.C., and Mrs. Burbank ; Mr.
Maurice Ashkanasy, Q.C., and his wife ;
and Mr. John Galbally, M.L.C., and
Mrs. Galbally.
# # V
The legal-eagles who were the guests-
of-honor made speeches notable for their
brevity and wit when, on returning from
the Legal Convention held at Perth, they
attended a reception given by the English-
Speaking Union, of which Sir Owen
Dixon is president. Large bowls of
pink blossom, camellias and japonica m
the reception-rooms were greatly admired
by the visitors. The guests -of - honor
were Lord Justice Pearce and Lady
Pearce, from London ; Mr. Justice Har-
lan and Mrs. Harlan from the U.S.; and
Dr. A. L. Goodhart, Q.C., and Lady
Goodhart, from Oxford. Among the
guests received by Sir Owen and Lady
Dixon were Sir Charles and Lady Lowe,
Sir Norman and Lady O’Bryan, Mr.
Justice Sholl and Mrs. Sholl, University
Chancellor Mr. Justice Dean and Mrs.
Dean, English visitors Mr. S. Lesser and
the Hon. Mrs. Lesser, U.K. Trade Com-
missioner H. F. Stevens and Mrs. Stevens,
and Law Institute president J. R. Burt
and Mrs. Burt.
☆ ☆ ☆
An appropriate name for the next
function being organised by the St.
Vincent’s Maternity Hospital Auxiliary
is the Rock-a-Bye Dinner Dance at
Ciro’s. Date is August 13, and double-
tickets are five-guineas. All the mem-
bers of the committee are young
mothers, and their president is Mrs. G. C.
Molyneux, whose husband is the Consul
for the Philippines. Applications for
tickets may be made to Mrs. B. Finney
(WL 1588) or Mrs. Peter Kiernan
(BJ 2844).
Lady Amies, wife of Sir Arthur Amies,
Professor of Dentistry at Melbourne
University, has been well in the fore-
front of the work being done to raise
money for the University building-fund
appeal. A charming Scotswoman and
graduate of Edinburgh University, Lady
Amies is the only woman in Australia
with the double-qualification of physician
and surgeon-dentist. In her medical
capacity she is on the staff of both Royal
Melbourne and Royal Children’s Hospi-
tals. She is also a vice-president of the
Diabetic Association. Lady Amies is
co-convenor, with Mrs. Tristan Buesst,
of the Embroideries Of All Nations
Exhibition, which will assist the building-
fund, and is to be held in the Beaurepaire
Hall at the University from Monday,
August 17 to Sunday, August 23.
What is probably the best collection
of embroideries ever seen in Victoria
will be shown at this exhibition, the
highlight of which will be the exquisite
silken panel specially chosen by the
Queen Mother from her own collection.
There will also be on display magnificent
ecclesiastical embroideries, intricate
Elizabethan stitchery, dazzling Ukrainian
costumes and petit-point chairs. Mrs.
Graham Hall, wife of the U.S. Consul-
General, will open the exhibition. Open-
ing-day tickets at one-guinea may be
obtained from Mrs. Tom Edwards, 27
Irving Road, Toorak. At other times
entrance-fee will be 5s. for adults, 2s.
for students and 1s. for children.
From August 19 to August 22 a gay
book-fiesta will be held in the Melba
Hall at the University. The Lady
Mayoress will open it at 5 p.m. on
August 19. There’ll be more than 30,000
good secondhand books at bargain-prices.
This function will also help the Univer-
sity building-fund appeal.
There were many lovely evening-
frocks —nearly all of them short —and
theatre-coats seen at the premiere of the
Bolshoi Ballet season at the Palais
Theatre, St. Kilda. It was a surprise to
see in the audience soprano Joan Ham-
mond, who is spending a quiet holiday
and expects to be here until early
September. The Victorian chairman of
the Elizabethan Trust, Aubrey Gibson,
was accompanied by his wife, whose
theatre-coat of bright scarlet patterned
in black velvet motifs was worn over a
black frock. Other members of the
trust in the official party were Sir Arthur
Smithers (Lady Smithers wore a deep-
grey silk-organza frock trimmed with
lace appliques, the skirt being finished at
the hem with a deep frill), and Mrs.
Massey Burnside, who was with her
husband.
Also in the audience were Sir George
and Lady Paton ; Lady Tait and her
daughter Isla (whose velvet coat was
scarlet); Mrs. Kenneth Myer and Mrs.
Peter Condon (both also favoring
scarlet); Mrs. Ray Joseph, who wore with
her black velvet frock a white Arctic-
fox stole; Mr. T. Grant Major (who
had a mink coat to go with her beetle-
wing-green silk-faille frock); • Mrs.
Helmut Newton ; Miss Patsy King,
fiancee of Mr. John Sumner, of the
trust; Jane Casson and Ann Connolly ;
well-known ballerinas Mrs. Paul Ham-
mond (Peggy Sager) and Mrs. Alan
Wynn (Sally Gilmour); Sir Robert Knox
and Lady Knox (her black Persian-lamb
coat had a white ermine collar); Mrs.
Frank Fogarty; Mrs. A. G. Silk and
her daughter, Mrs. Rodney Myer (the
latter in short, white brocade frock and
matching shoes); Mr. and Mrs. Norman
Lynch (she wearing a powder-blue coat
which had a matching Arctic-fox collar)
and their daughter Leveda (whose white
silk frock patterned in cherry-red was
worn with a royal-blue velvet coat).
Mrs. Emmet Spring’s choice was a
white brocade frock and white ermine
wrap ; her daughter Sue’s lovely theatre-
coat was of palest-pink mohair threaded
at the collar with deep-pink faille. Also
seen was Rosa' Boffa, who has been
working in the Australian Embassy in
Rome for the past 11 years, and is here
for a short, visit.
# # #
Penny Casson was guest-of-honor at
a cocktail-party given by her parents,
Mr. and Mrs. John Casson, at their
Malvern home. Having just finished
nursing at the Alfred Hospital, Penny
is England-bound to do a year’s course
in midwifery at the Ratcliffe Infirmary,
Oxford. While there she will visit her
grandparents, Sir Lewis Casson and
Dame Sybil Thorndike. Penny chose
a full-skirted frock of powder-blue white-
starred silk-shantung. Her mother
teamed a slim, black skirt and white-
silk-and-lace cocktail-blouse. Helping
their parents were son Anthony and
younger daughter Jane, who has tempor-
arily forsaken acting to concentrate on
music. Among the guests were Mr. and
Mrs. James Hunt, Mr. and Mrs. James
McCoy, Mrs. Robert Gardiner, Mr. and
Mrs. Ted Bilson, Miss Violet Tivey and
Captain David Hurford-Jones


an aborigine wrestling a 14ft. croco-
dile in the water ; aborigines cooking
snakes ; buffaloes bathing in a billa-
bong ; the Chauvels with the former
child-star at Everard Park.
Castlereagh's Suicide
H. Montgomery Hyde, a specialist
in the mysteries and bizarreries of
history, has made in The Strange Death
of Lord Castlereagh (Heinemann) a
190-page monograph of the last days
of Lord Castlereagh, who cut his throat
at the height of his power with a
shilling knife with a white handle he
bought from a boy in Piccadilly.
And for no proved reason. He is
best remembered in a few lines of
Shelley, about Murder having the face
of Castlereagh. and his windows had
been broken by the mob; but all this
did not disturb his equanimity. It left
him. as Hyde’s account of his last few
months shows, cheerful and contemptu-
ous, a tall, capable Foreign Minister
with an aristocratic disdain for popu-
larity.
Then, suddenly, he is calling upon
George IV. stammering, seizing the
King’s arm. breaking into tears, saying
that the police Were coming to arrest
him. that he knew he was mad and
had been for some time, and that he
was to be accused of the same crime
as the Bishop of Clogher.
The bishop had been recently
arrested for a homosexual offence with
a private of the Ist Regiment of
Guards; he broke bail and fled to
Scotland—and, to cut a long story
short, after Hyde had canvassed all
the possibilities, he produces a book
called “Recollections of the Last Half
Century,” privately printed for the
Rev. J. Richardson, 1855, who was
told by “a reliable informant,” who
had it from “a noble lord,” whom
Hyde says must have been Lord Clan-
william. who had been Castlereagh’s
private secretary, that when Castle-
reagh was walking home in the even-
ing from Parliament House he now
and then accepted the invitations of
prostitutes. A group of blackmailers
had him accosted by a youth dressed
as a woman, and then broke in upon
him and the half-undressed youth, and
began blackmailing him.
Day after day did these mis-
creants station themselves by the
iron railings with which the
enclosure of St. James’s Square is
surrounded, and take the oppor-
tunity, by signs and motions when-
ever he appeared, to let him know
that they had not yet forgotten the
scene which they had contrived
... .He made known his case... .to
the late Duke of Wellington and to
another nobleman. By them he was
advised to give the wretches into
custody at once, avow the full facts,
and extricate himself from further
disgusting thraldom. He had not
the resolution to follow this advice.
He shrank from the consequences
which the painful disclosures....,
might produce on the feelings of
his wife.
To force a man to endure the shame
of a false accusation of homosexuality
under threat of disclosing more normal
and excusable adulteries would surely
be a rare stroke of blackmailing
virtuosity; but, blackmail being a
secret weapon, it may be not uncom-
mon in the records of the craft.
Sails on the Derwent
Harry O’May has put out another
compilation of early Tasmanian craft:
Hobart River Craft, with which is
bound a much smaller essay, Sealers
of Bass Strait (Government Printer,
Tasmania). His early craft include
old Derwent River steamers; but the
charm of the book is in its lists and
memories of the Tasmania-built barges,
double-enders and cutters which
flowered into such beautiful produc-
tions as the ketches Surprise, May
Queen, Foam, Huon Chief and
Heatherbell. Photographs of these are
the pride of the copious section of
plates in the middle of the book.
The photograph of Good Intent
makes her look so long and clumsy
that it is hard to account for her fame ;
and one can only imagine that the
picture was taken after her operation,
when she was brought back to the
Wilsons’ yard, cut in two and had Bft.
of length inserted. (Wilsons made a
speciality of renovations: they split a
double-ended Sydney ferryboat down
the middle, opened her out. made her
4ft. wider and 2ft. deeper, gave her a
new bow and a counter-stern, and
rechristened her Hopetown).
But as to the Good Intent, she was
the pride of Cygnet, and Cygnet men
came up to see her, “coated from keel
to above the waterline with a mixture
of black-lead and stale beer and then
polished,” win in the Hobart Regatta;
and one of the Cygnet men told John
Nichols, Good Intent’s owner and
captain, that if anyone fouled her, he
would have him. Pat, to settle with.
And indeed May Queen, Captain Fred
Boucher, collided with Good Intent at
the starting-line and put her out of
the race, Boucher and May Queen
going on to win. Whereupon, next
morning, Captain Boucher stepped on
to the. wharf with his medal in his
pocket, and met this Pat: —
“Good morning, Pat, what brings
you here?” Pat returned the greet-
ing and said “How did you get on
yesterday, Skipper, did you win the
prize?” “Yes,” said Boucher, “and
the medal too.” “Where is it?” said
Pat. “Here,” said the captain, fetch-
ing out the medal; “Have a look at
it.” Pat looked at the medal and
then at Boucher, and asked “Are
you going to wear it?” “Wear it?”
said the captain, “Of course I’ll
wear it.” “Well,” said Pat, shaping
up to the captain, “wear that with
it.” There were only two hits —Pat
hit Boucher, and Boucher hit the
wharf.
O’May has unbent a bit more in
this book than in his previous works ;
there are several such stories, including
the yarn of how Chopper Cross, after
another captain had mentioned
entering the crowded dock in full sail,
decided to amaze everyone by taking
his ketch out with all sails set; but
to the amusement of all, went danger-
ously back and forth across the dock
until: —
It was down the jib and staysail,
down topsails, down everything.
Then he ordered two men into the
boat, passing them a line over the
bow, and they towed her labori-
ously out through the narrow open-
ing in the Dock, on either side of
which were congregated deckhands,
fishermen, and sightseers... .As
Catherine went through the laugh-
ing assembly Chopper looked up
sheepishly at Geordie until he met
Geordie’s eye ; in a very apologetic
tone of voice he said “Couldn’t do
it, George, she’s too big.”
And again, there was James Garth,
pioneer settler and boatbuilder, who
had warned-off the suitors of his two
pretty daughters. Launching Caledonia,
with all residents present, he struck
trouble, looked around for help, saw
the two suitors and called them over:
“Look, lads, help me float her and you
can come and see the girls when you
like.” There's surely a novel in O’May’s
asides, very different from the usual
stories of bleak, convict-ridden Tas-
mania.
Besides his amazing, if not very
efficiently assembled, facts about little
boats of long ago, their birth, lives
and (sometimes a hundred years later)
their deaths, O’May is good on the
woods from which they were made,
and which they helped to carry: trees
that would produce 20,000 palings or
50,000 shingles ; Huon pine, found only
from the Huon to the Pieman River
(“very little of it now remains”), the
famous boat-building timber; silver-
wattle trees that made 6ft. staves for
whale-oil casks ; trees 70ft. to the first
limb, pit-sawn for keels by experts
who would sharpen their saws and put
their shirts over them “so that the wind


Long: Pis:
Russell Foreman
“The South Sea Islands are usually presented in terms of a Polynesian
Paradise, but there is the other side of the picture the savage cannibal-
istic Melanesian world of recent histoiy. The story of that other side is
superbly told in Russell Foreman’s dramatic novel.” —Alec Waugh. 20/-
WfILIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
.*
CP
<s>
,\v
#
$
Ask us to place you on our mailing list and regularly inform you
of new books on any subject which interests you.
Ask us to send you a book and we will post it by return mail to
any place in the world.
Ask us anything you like about books . . . we know and would
like to be of service to you.
GRAHAME BOOK COMPANY
Cnr. Martin Place and Elizabeth Street, Sj-daey. MA 9021.
wouldn’t blow the edge off” ; trees that
had to be felled so that branch and
trunk could be sawn for wood naturally
shaped to crook or knee...
And this is not’to mention the steam-
ships, the rowing-races, the songs of
ship-building by Syd and John Wilson,
and the last Christmas Eve race
between the steamers Togo and
Cartela, in 1926: —
On rounding Sandy Point, Togo
was a few lengths in the lead, and
Cartela gradually overhauling her ;
off the Esplanade Cartela’s stern
was on Togo’s port quarter. Togo
at this point appeared to bore in
on Cartela, touch her, shoot across
her bow, and run half her length
on the beach. There was no more
racing after that. Probably there
was an unofficial ban by the Marine
Board.
The Hobart Craft section concludes
with an account of a trip in a modem
ketch, Derwent Hunter, launched in
1946, down the inhospitable south and
west coast, never properly charted,
in search of a good all-weather anchor-
age. The search was unsuccessful, but
not the fishing—ll 6 score of cray-
fish (at 24 to the score) in ten days,
and the final dozens of trumpeter
uncounted.
The sealing-section is about Captain
Kelly and the naked native women
who stretched alongside seals, lulled
their suspicions, and clubbed them to
death ; the difficult times the Yankee
Captain Amasa Delano had with the
Sydney sealers under Murrell ; and the
bitter vengeance Thomas Tucker of
Guncarriage Island wreaked upon the
native, Murray, who had dashed out
the brains of Tucker’s half-caste child.
Reviewed Briefly
Full Cycle: Rear-Admiral W. S.
Chalmers (Hodder and Stoughton). A
capable and conventional biography of
Admiral Sir Bertram Ramsay, who
organised the naval operations at the
Dunkirk evacuation and later co-
operated with Montgomery in the “full
cycle” of Allied ripostes on Sicily and
Normandy. Straightforward and well
documented. A lot of the ground has
been covered before, but that is
inevitable.
* * * *
A Stranger Here: G. R. Fazakerley
(Macdonald). The intolerance shown
to West Indian immigrant. Jacob
Nelson, when he lands in Liverpool,
brings quick disillusionment; his edu-
cation only adds to the resentment felt
against him, especially when he is
made foreman over white workers. He
falls in love with a white girl, whose
father was an advocate of racial
equality but found he held differ-
ent opinions when asked to accept
Jacob into the family. In a story told
with some bitterness there is a fair
presentation of the case for both sides,
white and colored, and a summary that
mixed marriages could make demands
too exacting for happiness, and that
negroes can live peacefully with white
only if they are content to work in
subordinate jobs.
* * * *
The Psychology of Social Class: M.
Halbwachs (Heinemann). The author
had just been appointed to the Chair
of Social Psychology of the College de
France when the Gestapo dragged him
off to Buchenwald, where he died
early in 1945. This book is a survey
of the habits of mind of peasants,
entrepreneurs, bourgeoisie, factory-
workers; city divisions of “lower-
middle or intermediate class”; and in
his conclusion he meditates on patriot-
ism, religion, science, art, politics,
social morals and collective representa-
tions. With a bibliography of Halb-
wachs’s thirteen books and many
articles and lectures
* * * *
War at the Top: James Leasor
(Michael Joseph). Describes the war-
time experiences of General Sir Leslie
Hollis, who was Assistant Secretary to
the War Cabinet and Chiefs-of-Staff
Committee and who between 1939 and
1945 attended more than 6000 meetings
of this august body. The blurb claims
that this is not just another book about
the war; but it is, except for the
author’s peculiar technique. Every now
and again the General chimes-in with
great hunks of reminiscence about
what went on in the “hole in the
ground” under Whitehall or during
various high-level conferences through-
out the world. James Leasor comes
back to tell the reader things which
Hollis could not very well say about
himself—such as how hard Hollis
worked: “from 7.30 each morning,
weekends included, until one or two
the next morning”; with similar testi-
monials to the General’s devotion to
duty. The book is repetitive and
painfully well-documented.
*** * *
The Body at Bowman’s Hollow':
Freda Hurt (Macdonald). The young
girl journalist, going down from
London to stay with her retired uncle
and aunt, is offered a car-ride from the
station by a personable young man,
and on the way they almost run across
the body. The victim turns out to
be an actor’s agent; and matters are
complicated by the girl’s having to
interview a TV-personality she can’t
find, while the young man who drove
her has been having an affair with a
married woman, and a poor gardener
is knocked-off for no apparent reason:
and why has the actor’s agent been
posing as a vacuum-cleaner salesman?
If this seems a considerable tangle,
let it be said that it is unravelled far
better than you’d expect in a first
detective-novel.


If you
really care
for your
car
m
ENERGOL
visco-static
w
: • •s
Z.'XfM
x, i
'*• :
wm.
-XwvWx®
:•
/
use
a a
CQR
&
ENERGOL
visco-static
MULTI-GRADE MOTOR OIL HD —APPROVED BY ROLLS-ROYCE
ENER GOL VISCO-ST A TIC
Multi-grade Motor Oil,
Energol Premium Grade Motor
Oils and Energreases are
available wherever you see
this sign.
ENERGOL VISCO-STATIC has all these
proven advantages over conventional oils —
# Reduces engine wear . . . by giving perfect
lubrication instantly when starting, and con-
tinually throughout all engine temperatures.
& Increases engine power . » e by reducing
oil drag.
# Improves petrol economy ... by remaining
free flowing, even when your engine is cold.
BP AUSTRALIA LIMITED, formerly The Commonwealth Oil Refineri
e:
Limited
2/C786
