

The Bulletin
The Unplaced Favorite— page 17
WWnesc/ay, March 11, 1959
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
"I want a bodgie cut."


BOOKHUNTER, Box 2071, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
the only if successful.
The Red Page
AMERICAN NOVELIST
Longmans are publishing a uniform
edition of most of the novels of James
Gould Cozzens, whose “Guard of
Honor” won the Pulitzer Prize in
1949; and Cozzens is worth knowing:
he has been a man to watch ever since
“S.S. San Pedro,” a book something
like “The Bridge of San Luis Rey,”
first found its way out of America in
the ’thirties.
“S.S. San Pedro” (along with three
other earlier books) does not appear
on the list which Longmans are to
publish: which is a pity—it would be
pleasant to have another look at it.
But the three volumes which Long-
mans have issued— Guard of Honor,
Men and Brethren and Ask Me
Tomorrow —along with the two pro-
jected—The Just and the Unjust and
A Cure of Flesh (which originally had
the milder title of “The Last Adam”)
—will provide a pretty substantial
amount of reading and give a fair
picture of Cozzens’s outstanding talent.
His most recent novel, “By Love
Possessed,” acclaimed in America as
his masterpiece, is presumably still
available in another edition.
Though it is by no means his best
book. “Men and Brethren” (written in
1936) will serve as well as any of the
three published in the Longmans series
to illustrate his qualities; for if it does
not amount to quite the revelation it
should, it is workmanlike and typical.
The way Cozzens goes to work is
carefully and methodically to “docu-
ment” in each novel a phase of Ameri-
can life, usually one of the professions.
“Men and Brethren” happens to be
about a clergyman, an Episcopalian,
which invites a comparison with Trol-
lope; but then “A Cure of Flesh” (or
“The Last Adam”) was about a
country doctor, and “The Just and the
Unjust” was about lawyers and “Guard
of Honor” about the Air Force, and
so on.
In one respect, apart from the
coincidence that “Men and Brethren”
is about the clergy, Cozzens is, in fact,
a bit like Trollope: in his detachment,
his fairness, his balance of mind. Apart
from Sinclair Lewis (who is livelier
than Cozzens but more erratic) he is
the most temperate, the most measured
of the prominent American novelists.
Most of them, one way or another,
run to excess; they are extravagant,
romantic, dithyrambic; they write a
kind of prose-poetry; they tend to
scream. Cozzens talks quietly and he
writes plain prose.
One of the problems which the
clergyman in “Men and Brethren” has
to face is, for instance, that of a girl
who is going to have an illegitimate
child. That was enough to set
Dreiser screaming for the whole 7 of
“An American Tragedy”; Cozzens’s
clergyman quietly sends her off to a
doctor to have an illegal operation—
a sensational enough thing for a clergy-
man to do if Cozzens or his readers
liked to take it that way—and that is
the end of that.
But here, of course, is a difference
from Trollope; for such a problem, or.
at any rate, such a solution, would
hardly have been recognised at Bar-
chester, where sufficient perturbation
was caused by a clergyman’s forgetting
whether or not he had stolen twenty
pounds. Nor would another of the
“Men and Brethren” problems have
been allowed to arise: what Cozzens’s
clergyman is to do about his old
college-friend, another clergyman, who
has been caught-out in homosexuality
and comes to him for refuge. Nor, for
that matter, would a Trollope clergy-
man have one of his ex-mistresses, now
turned into a very drunken trollop,
arrive to make another problem until
she conveniently falls into the river;
nor would he be pursued, at least so
frankly, by an attractive red-head who
wants to divorce her husband and (not
quite credibly) marry him.
So there is in Cozzens this wider
view of life than Trollope cared to
take; a broader, more natural picture
—though whether there is a deeper
understanding of life is another matter.
Certainly what you do miss in
Cozzens is Trollope’s fineness —his wit;
the grace of his style; and, in “Men
and Brethren” at all events, Trollope’s
power of dramatisation, for all these
tremendous problems which his clergy-
man, under the disapproval of his
superiors, has to face, never explode
in the end to anything like the agony
of the Rev. Crawley or the disaster
of Mrs. Proudie. It is Cozzens’s
method to avoid overstressing the
agonies. It enables him to avoid
hysteria; it gives him balance and
detachment; and at the same time it
gives him a certain tameness and even,
when you have finished “Men and
Brethren,” an ultimate impression of
formlessness . . . what was all the novel
for, if nothing was going to happen?
Life may be like that; but not the bits
of life that make the most memorable
novels.
But, if he turns out a little tame at
the end of this novel, Cozzens is still
always interesting; and “Men and
Brethren,” like all his novels, is interest-
ing in two distinct ways: first, for the
story itself; and next, for an exact
picture of the particular slice of
American life he happens to be docu-
menting.
In the first way, the story, “Men
and Brethren” is indeed excessively
interesting. It seems almost to have
been written for adaptation as a play
or a film—or at least has been written
in a stage-technique.
There is the stock stage-beginning
of the colored maidservant answering
the telephone; and thereafter, with the
clergyman hardly able to take his ear
from the incessant phone-calls, except
to dash away and attend to an illegal
operation here, an offer of adultery
there, a junior’s sermon, an old woman
dying, a row with the vicar, a problem
about the garbage, a visit to the
morgue, arguments with Oxford
Groupers and a dispute with a
Catholic priest, the novel moves in
the crowded and clamorous speed of
one of those films they make about
American newspapers. The whole
action takes place over a single week-
end, and obviously Cozzens has
crowded too much into it for prob-
ability.
But not too much, allowing for a
little speeding-up, for a very interest-
ing and convincing picture of a world
most of us know nothing about, except
as it is satirised in “Elmer Gantry”:
the life of the modern American
clergyman. And not too much (though
one wishes that Cozzens would modify
his detachment just for a moment to
say what he really thinks of his sin-
cere, helpful, compassionate and
utterly conceited hero) for a most
interesting portrait of the clergyman.
In these two aspects of his art —the
universal modern problems with which
he deals, and his series of pictures of
the American scene—Cozzens, of
course, moves right away from Trol-
lope. Taking him at his simplest level,
he could be regarded as merely a most
careful and conscientious reporter of
American life; taking him at his
highest, his aim would be close to
Balzac’s.
Of the other novels published in
the Longmans series, “Ask Me To-
morrow,” about an American writer in
Italy, is slighter than “Men and
Brethren,” with something of Heniy
James in its inconclusiveness, and
“Guard of Honor,” again crammed
into three days, is the massive, richly
packed story of what happens in the
U.S. Air Force when an officer strikes
a negro. It amounts to a vast tapestry
of uamp-life, slow-moving, but crowded
with portraits that seem more authentic,
more maturely observed, than you can
get from any other American novelist.
(“Red Page” continued on page 58)


CONTRACTORS and TRADESMEN:
m
S*llf
Sc ,
" ! ' ..
Close the gate on
your carrying
problems
with....«
SMART, RUGGED, ROOMY, DYNAMIC. . .
■ \
W:«L
wm
m
.... m
'W
■ ...
..Jv
mm
■
• • •
INTERNATIONAL PICK-UPS
These husky, energetic Jack-of-all-trades International Pick-ups are ready for the call to work—
from builders, plumbers, carpenters and electricians—in fact any operator who is restricted by
the limitations of car-type utilities.
Choose from the three models : International AA-110 with 15 cwt. capacity, the International
AA-120 with a payload of over one ton and the International AA-120 ‘4 x 4’. This four-
wheel-drive model rolls your loads over rough away-from-highway country that would bog
down any ordinary vehicle. You can seat three large adults in comfort in the new International
cabs. There’s plenty of room on the tray floor, too. You can lay an 8 ft. x 4 ft. building
sheet flat, with the truck’s tail-gate up.
The International Pick-up has everything the truck operator needs from the new Australian
Blue Diamond engine to the replaceable I" bondwood planks on the tray floor. Why not
get all the details feel the Pick-up’s performance for yourself. Ask your International
Harvester Dealer or your nearest I.H. office about a test-drive today.
INTERNATIONAL
rick- up TRUCKS
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
> FMT-3ie/3fl


The Bulletin
Wednesday, March 11, 1959
Vol. 80—No. 4126
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
THE L.-C.P. OFFER
TN view of the new accord which
A seems to have developed between
the Liberal and Country parties in the
N.S.W. Parliament, it seems a pity that
the policy-speech of the coalition had
to be delivered in two helpings.
The policy of any Government is a
whole, and it should be backed by the
best ability available, all of which
should have an equal chance of pre-
ferment. As it is, the N.S.W. coalition
seems to consist of a senior and junior
partnership in which the Country-
party men, who form the most solid
and enduring nucleus, have inferior
chances of office. It appears unfor-
tunate that the South Australian L.-C.P.
arrangement does not exist under
which there is a single organisation,
and members can elect their party
allegiances without hampering their
chances of the highest office. At pre-
sent no Country-party man can hope
to be Premier of N.S.W.
The matter is the more important
since the programme of promises put
forward in the two policy-speeches is
predominantly developmental and
rural.
Both sides in this election, in which
the Lib.-C.P. have a real chance, have
proved mighty promisers, but Mr.
Cahill is at a distinct disadvantage. He
bought so many votes in his day,
and devised so many burdens on
the shoulders of the taxpayers to
finance them, and so much squander
goes with his tolerance of go-slow and
industrial indiscipline, that he is about
at the end of his resources. The
Liberals at least are able to promise,
with an appearance not only of good
faith but of enthusiasm, to abolish his
unpopular measures and improve on
his popular ones. Anyone who
could not improve on his public works
and transport methods would be futile
indeed.
TyHILE some electors might wonder,
in the present state of finances,
how either party can carry-out some of
the measures which are imperative, like
the acceleration of school- and dam-
building and the doing-over of trans-
port to make it work, and at the same
time abolishing land-tax and ton-mile
tax and reducing rural rail-freights,
adding to the outlay on soldier-
settlement, cleaning-up the lag in water
and sewerage in both country towns
and Sydney urban areas, the Liberal-
C.P. have a chance of doing it gradu-
ally. Labor, with its burden of bought
voters and dictating Communist union-
leaders, hasn’t Buckley’s chance.
The standard policy of Labor has
been to promote anything which will
lead to the collection together of large
aggregations of unionised voters whose
political outlooks can be supervised,
forced in the right direction by duress
or led in the right direction by the use
of political carrots denied to voters in
areas where political opinion is likely
to be more diverse.
The result has been that the country
has been governed by the city, and the
city outlook has been governed by the
interests of the concentrated body of
civil servants and of other pressure-
groups to which Labor Governments
are content to be subservient.
While population has poured into
the State through immigration and
boomed through the increased birth-
rate, one of the consequences of
general prosperity, there has been
actual leakage from the rural areas.
This is partly due to the fact that
modern methods call for smaller man-
power requirements in farming and
grazing; but largely it is due to the
determined policy of centralisation
pursued by Governments like the Cahill
Government, which picks up its big
freight stick every time it hears of
anything developing in a safe C.P. or
Liberal electorate, especially outside
the bounds of the great wen of Sydney.
There is always hope for Labor in
the Sydney environs, no matter how
strong a Liberal majority. The dump-
ing down in a marginal area of a jerry-
built housing estate, incomplete, with-
out proper sewerage or roads; and the
induction into it of a chosen many
can alter the political complexion of
a district; but this technique is not
always so easy in the country.
The rural population and urban
population outside Sydney combined
in 1924 represented half the total
population of the State; in 1959 the
metropolitan proportion is much the
bigger half, and with Newcastle and
Wollongong areas taken in the big-city
populations are easily predominant.
'THERE is no doubt that the Liberal-
A Country-party programme is both
salutary and original, and mostly well
thought-out.
Its promise of a Ministry of
Decentralisation and Development will
come as a breath of fresh air to many
stagnant and neglected areas which, so
far from being encouraged, are actually
punished with taxation through freights
and royalties whenever they show any
sign of taking business away from the
centralised areas in which the floor-
rental of commercial buildings has
risen to a dizzy level of £2 or more a
square-foot a year. Sydney transport
has broken-down and the streets are so
congested that they are more dangerous
than a Korean battlefield.
TF the country is to spring to life
industrially and productively it cer-
tainly needs a thorough overhaul. Dam
projects need to become swiftly realised
media for production of permanent
water and flood-prevention, instead of
life-pension schemes for blocs of
sluggish voters of whom the main
requirement' is that they are maintained
at certain places for as long as possible
in order to retain or win a seat for
some hard-eyed Labor M.L.A.
The burden of cost in the usage of
country roads, the length of haulage to
port of rural produce from the north
and south of the State, the redevelop-
ment of an economic coastal shipping
trade all needs attention for the growth
of N.S.W., as distinct from the growth
of Sydney and the coalfields areas.
The country needs an equal deal
with the cities in housing, localisation
of education and transport, and it also
needs a closer representation on a
regional rather than on a population
basis in Parliament irrespective of
what that does to the Labor party.
The argument that predominant
country representation means a “hay-
seed” programme and method of
Government holds no water. Anybody
who thinks it does should compare the
development of South Australia, where
the representation has a rural and
regional basis, with the shabby, be-
spattered and besmirched condition of
progress under the McGirrs and the
Cahills in N.S.W. It is all the more
needful to get rid of the existing policy
because of its insistence on centralisa-
tion in local-government, where a
policy of amalgamations is directed
towards a complete city dictatorship.
The Liberal-C.P. programme pre-
sented in the dual policy-speech is
largely the product of a busy group
of young C.P. members who are unfor-
tunate in not being able to go to the
polls headed by their chief planner,
Davis Hughes.
At the same time, they are fortunate
in having three or four men capable of
carrying on the party-leadership during
the campaign with capacity and vigor,
and in having agreement with Pat
Morton and his followers.


"OP IT. YOUNG MORTON!"


PLAIN ENGLISH
Macmillan Leads
In spite of the lack of confidence in
him on his own side, Mr. Macmillan
seems to have come-off best in the
Moscow encounters.
He kept his temper when Khrushchev
didn’t. He went about apparently un-
ruffled by insults, carried on a buy-
British campaign among the Russians,
with geniality until Khrushchev, recover-
ing from his toothache and his bad tem-
per, decided to play ball on the matters
on which he had said, with insulting
overtones, that he would not play a
Foreign Ministers’ conference on Berlin.
It now seems that Mr. Khrushchev's
arrogance was probably dictated by the
arrival of the Iraqi delegation to Moscow
to whom he was anxious to demonstrate
that he regarded the British as less than
the dirt and a dastardly crew from which
he was rescuing the unfortunate
Baghdadis.
His bad temper may have been dictated
by the fact that the Indonesian plans
of the party have gone astray and that
the Djakarta Government is now almost
wholly in the hands of the Army, that
the Cyprus agreement ditches the Com-
munist hope that there would be another
victory for “anti-colonialism,” violence
and more ignominy for the United King-
dom, and that the Anglo-Egyptian
agreement, signed during the British
mission’s visit to Moscow, marks a turn-
ing-point in Middle East affairs.
Whatever the facts, he did change his
tune suddenly while Macmillan went on
pumping into the Russians the astonish-
ing facts about Britain’s leadership in
invention radar, jet engines, antibiotics
and pre-eminence in working for peace.
He is now ready for a Foreign Minis-
ters’ Conference, and in Leipzig told the
East Germans that the balance of military
strength achieved by the West and the
Iron Curtain bloc, “must rule-out war
as an instrument of international policy
and that it was time for the armies to
withdraw and leave the outstanding issues
to be settled by the diplomats on the
basis of truth.” It was the first occasion
on which he had admitted that Russia
was not in a completely predominant
military position, capable of crushing the
resistance of the Western world in a few
minutes.
The joint communique issued by the
British and Russian leaders on the pre-
vious Tuesday had spoken of “the useful-
ness of the possibilities of increasing
security by some method of limitation of
.forces and weapons, both conventional
and nuclear, in an agreed area of Europe,
coupled with an appropriate system of
inspection.”
Macmillan seems to have become
the chief figure in the Western
world for the time being, working for
a summit conference of leaders follow-
ing the Foreign Ministers’ conference
on Berlin, to which all the great Western
European Powers are now agreed.
The crucial part of his job will be to
convince the Americans, they having a
habit of believing that nothing can be
any good unless originated in Wash-
ington. '
The success of any conference, sum-
mit or otherwise, depends on what
Khrushchev means by “settle” in
relation to agreements. If he means
“settle” by complete surrender of
the West to the idea that Russia,
with Poland and Czechoslovakia,
should decide the fate of Eastern Ger-
many, there is not much hope from the
meetings.
Mr. Cahill's Lapse
There was an air of comedy about the
reactions of the Premiers to the Com-
monwealth Government’s hint that it was
prepared to hand-back taxing-powers to
the States.
The two congested south-eastern
States, N*.S.W. and Victoria, with South
Australia, were the only ones that showed
any willingness, and Mr. Cahill was
willing without the slightest enthusiasm.
Mr. Cahill wanted a common income-
tax law and one collecting-authority for
five years, leaving the States to raise
“essentially State taxes, fixing their own
rates.”
Mr. Bolte, the only really pressing
- enthusiast, was for all six States taking
back their tax-rights, or, if that were
impossible, for a dual optional system
under which any particular State could
resume its right to income-tax, those
which assumed taxing rights not to
receive any reimbursements from the
Commonwealth.
Neither Premier was very enthusiastic
about the Commonwealth’s scheme
which provides for the handing-back of
taxing-powers under a uniform system
of assessment, a single collecting organisa-
tion, single returns and assessments, con-
tinuation of the pay-as-you-earn system,
with the field of company-tax left to the
Commonwealth to provide for uni-
formity.
The last provision would certainly be
a necessity in any scheme. One of the
greatest blessings of the existing scheme
is that overseas investors know that they
will not be completely at the mercy of
the States whose Governments are
pledged to socialisation and are sinking
towards bankruptcy.
Mr. Cahill had his eye on the election
throughout the three-hour debate, and
urged the Commonwealth not only to
relieve State Governments of interest on
loans from Commonwealth tax-revenue
but to abolish payroll tax on State Gov-
ernments. And then he turned on Mr.
Bolte for proposing that Victoria become
a claimant for Commonwealth Grant
Commission aid and declared passion-
ately, as if he were making a speech at
the guillotine, that “if Victoria becomes
a claimant State we may as well do away
with the States, for it would spell the end
of the Federal system.”
Apparently Mr. Cahill doesn’t know
his own party’s platform. He attacks
Mr. Bolte’s ideas as likely to produce
the dreadful catastrophe of the destruc-
tion of the States. Yet he himself, as a
Labor candidate, has signed the Parlia-
mentary candidate’s pledge, set-out in
the party’s N.S.W. branch Rules and
Constitution and Policy and Platform,
1958-59: “If returned to Parliament on
all occasions to do my utmost to ensure
the carrying-out of the principles
embodied in the Labor platform.” And
the N.S.W. State platform says:
The policy of the party is abolition of
State Parliaments.
The same is true of the Federal party.
It would be interesting to hear Dr. Evatt
—and Mr.* Calwell —on Mr. Cahill’s
expressed views.
All this, however, is fully in line with
the fact that Labor has become a party
of straightout opportunists.
Bets OfF-course
As- might have been expected from the
overwhelming case in its favor presented
to him, royal-commissioner Martin has
reported to the Victorian Government in
favor of the establishment of off-course
totes.
The N.Z. off-course cash-tote system
was urged by the racing-clubs, had
already been favorably and publicly re-
viewed by Chief Secretary Rylah, praised
by independent observers and reported
on with modest satisfaction by the New
Zealand experts who run it.
Opposed to it were only the illegal
s.-p. bookmakers in Victoria, represent-
ing nobody except themselves, and a
number of churchmen who obviously
knew very little about its operation and
had not troubled to seek the views of the
N.Z. churches and social workers who,
with a few exceptions, like it very much
indeed.
Mr. Martin’s report was quite plain-
spoken. He recommended the off-course
tote because it would not provide any
motive to corrupt police, telephone-
employees or the connections of horses,
and there would be no evasion of tax.
The only real disadvantage he saw in
a licensed off-course tote was that more
people would bet, and gambling would
increase ; against this would be the pro-
vision of a lawful means of betting for
those who could not attend meetings, a
net annual revenue for the State of about
£2.6 million, lower administrative costs,
better relations between police and
public, and less compunction by magis-
trates in imposing heavy penalties on
those convicted of illegal betting.
The commissioner estimated the illegal
off-course turnover in Victoria at £162
million. This is an extraordinarily high
'estimate, and a 5 p.c. State tax on it
would yield the Government £8 million
a year, not the £2.6 million estimated.
It was significant during the commis-
sioner’s sittings that every witness who
had first-hand knowledge of the N.Z.
off-course tote reported favorably on it,
and the opposition to it came from in-
terested parties who feared the tote or
those who knew little of it.


Not on the Roll
Sydney City Council is the big anomaly
in N. S. Wales local-government. It is
chosen by proportional-representation;
all other councils are elected by preferen-
tial voting. All other municipalities are
divided into wards ; Sydney wards were
abolished by the same bill that estab-
lished p.-r. In all but one council in
N. S. Wales the aldermen and councillors
choose their mayor or shire-president.
Sydney City Council is the exception;
the Lord Mayor is elected by a general
poll at the same time as the council.
Sydney City Council has an interesting
system of franchise. Residents must be
enrolled and they must vote. Non-
resident ratepayers are entitled to vote
and their names are automatically placed
on the rolls, but they are not compelled
to vote. A third class of person may
also qualify for a vote. This is the non-
residential occupier— i.e., the direct tenant
of the owner, head-lessee or trustee of
property to whom rent is payable. Such
persons are entitled to vote, but they
are not compelled to do so. Moreover,'
they are not obliged to enrol. The onus
is on them to see that their names are on
the roll; otherwise they are not entitled
to vote. And they must enrol again each
election-year or their names are removed
from the roll.
The pattern is clear. The resident vote
keeps the council in Labor hands. The
people who pay the overwhelming bulk
of the rates and thus keep the council
solvent are not residents. With them it
is a modern case of taxation without
representation. But a citizens’ committee
which has gone into the matter con-
siders that the ratepayers have it in their
power to get proper representation if
only they will take advantage of the small
privilege still left to them and enrol and
vote. The next council election is in
December, and the City Roll must be com-
piled by the end of June. The Property
Owners and Tenants’ Committee, Box
760, G.P.0., Sydney, will answer any
inquiries on the subject.
International Trade Fair
[From “Collins Street”]
One of the main purposes, no doubt, of
the Melbourne Chamber of Commerce
in sponsoring the International Trade
Fair was to show the trade and the public
the wonderful world of goods which our
licensing or tariff system exclude, or
permit in a trickle; and this aim has
certainly been achieved in the manu-
facturers’ Cornucopia at the Exhibition
Building.
The show, which covers thousands of
articles from aircraft and diesel-engines
to pretzel-sticks, is claimed to be worth
£2 million, but looks worth many millions
more, and, apart from the U.K., the
biggest efforts seem to have been made
by our ex-enemies Japan, Italy and
Germany.
Although it is primarily a trade fair,
Melburnians have been turning-up in
thousands every day, no doubt because
of the novelty, beauty, rarity and mass
of goods, and it\ is unfortunate that
citizens of other Australian cities can’t
see the exhibition. The two chief reasons
are that the fair must be sponsored, as
it was in Melbourne, and the enormous
cost of packaging and transport in Aus-
tralia. One estimate I heard of dis-
mantling the Japanese show and repro-
ducing it in Sydney was not much less
than £20,000.
Much of the Japanese show was in
the traditional style, compartmented,
simple and sometimes stark, embracing
chiefly textiles, furniture, woodwork and
glassware in the modern patterns of the
better Danish and Swedish makers.
Characteristically, the Japanese were
seldom in sight, but the Italians were,
of course, at their animated stands, rang-
ing from textiles to Lloyd Triestino, the
Necchi sewing-machines, the Fiats down
to the inevitable Gaggia espressos, for
ice-cream as well as coffee. The reason
for the world’s rediscovery of Italy and
her genius since the war is epitomised
in the show.
The German show is characteristic,
too. All that moves in their stands is
a film, and most of them are occupied
by cameras, films and scientific instru-
ments. At the end, a few feet away,
are some of the latest models of the
magnificent Mercedes Benz, “The World’s
Oldest Automobile Manufacturers,” but
presented by Mercedes Benz (Australia),
and so having, apparently, two-bob each
way.
Light in the Darkness
[From Canberra]
After a couple of lean years, with
falling wool-prices and lack of public
confidence in the economy, Australia
seems to be on the threshold of a new
and prosperous 1959-60. Two significant
events in the past week have shed a
little light into the darkened economic
corner, and it is even possible the Com-
monwealth may be able to ease the tax-
burden later in the year.
The first event was the magnificent
response to the Commonwealth’s last
public loan. The second was a remark-
able • pick-up in Australia's overseas
trading operations last month.
The loan, which was the second for
the current financial year, was for £25
million, but total subscriptions amounted
to £6O million —almost 150 per cent, more
than was sought.
Prime Minister Menzies, commenting
on this at the special Premiers’ Con-
ference last week, said the remarkable
response to the market meant that the
Commonwealth would not now have a
deficit this financial year of £llO million,
as originally estimated. He said it would
be much lower.
New Treasurer Harold Holt added
that the Commonwealth would again
budget for a deficit next financial year,
this indicating that the Government was
paving the way for much-needed tax-cuts
on individuals, and, possibly, companies.
On the international - trading front
Australia showed a remarkable pick-up
in February and recorded a favorable
balance of £12,200,000 —the third favor-
able balance so far this financial year.
Meeting at Broadbeach
In the conference at Ecafe —few people
who help to pay for it could interpret
the letters which stand for Economic
Commission of Asia and the Far East—
Australians at last are having an oppor-
tunity of a brief glimpse of the kind of
luxury organisations the world possesses
inside the United Nations.
The Gold Coast of Queensland, with
its luxury hotels and huge charges and
its distractions, seems about the most
incongruous place in the world to hold
a meeting to consider the woes and needs
of a poverty-stricken Asia.
The key to the effectiveness or other-
wise of the discussions rests largely with
the Russians, who, of course, look on the
meeting merely as another opportunity
to press the claims of Red China to in-
clusion in U.N. and to sprag any real
attempt to better Asian living-conditions,
except through Communist initiative.
The outstanding pre-occupations of the
conference (apart from the surf and the
delights of Broadbeach) will be the
“current economic realities and prob-
lems” of the Asian region as seen through
the eyes of officialdom, a discussion of
population trends in the Ecafe region.
A debate is officially “expected to
develop on the question of Asian popula-
tion pressures and what to do with them.”
Mao, with the backing of his friends
in Moscow, has already settled that one:
employ them to conquer South-east Asia
by weight of numbers.
The conference is also setting-out to
study a report on “economic and natural
resources,” as well as one submitted by
a “working party” on “economic plan-
ning and development.” Near the bottom
of the list is an “analysis of the diminish-
ing share that Asia has in the world's
markets” under the new freedom assured
in the post-war world as the result of
the establishment of an “anti-colonial”
policy, guided in the main locally by
military dictators.
This, it seems, needs “a deeper
regional approach.” Of course there are
transport problems, “co-ordination of
this and that—railways, waterways,
highways, inland transport,” including a
plan for an international highway sub-
committee to go into a scheme to link
the Communist and other countries with
neighbors still in the Western bloc—a
scheme which (for U.N. at any rate) “has
the fascination that it would in fact
re-open and recreate the caravan routes
of the past.”
Beyond that there is river development
and, last but surely not least, food and
agriculture.
Nothing concrete will or can be done,
because U.N. has no resources to do
anything of itself—except hold confer-
ences. But it is some consolation that a
good time will be had by all, as it is per-
petually being had by myriad similar
assemblies in the more expensive holiday-
resorts and cities of the world. Thus tax-
payers may take unction to their souls
that they are giving pleasure to some-
body.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
TIE walked out of the Town Hall
to see a couple of lads hoisting a
bike up the flagstaff. “Here,” he said,
“I’ll give you a hand,” and helped haul
the bike to the very top. “Let's tie some
decent knots in it,” he laughed ; and tied
a series that would baffle a Boy Scout.
“That’ll take them an hour to undo,” he
said . . . but like shadows the lads had
departed for safer regions where they
could watch the fun. He, too, darted for
his bike. Just a bare wall showed where
it had been—then the horrible truth
dawned. —“J.J.A.”
C*
“E.H.M.”: On the news we were told
that the A.C.T.U meeting in Hobart had
agreed to urge the Federal Government
to have diplomatic relations with Red
China. The next item was to the effect
that the wharfies had walked-off a Dutch
boat at Bowen (Q.)—- they refused to use
the same washing-facilities as the Chinese
seamen. Old Chinese proverb say: “You
can lead a ho:~e to the water, but you
don’t have to i se it yourself.”
“Juiso”: The Annandale (Sydney)
fruiterer must follow the “Little King”
in the Sunday funnies ; a crate of his
oranges, half as big as tennis-balls, were
boldly labelled: “King Size.” .
❖ ❖
“Liewahlo”: Ever since the whirr of
the hand-mower gave place to the put-put
of the powered job prices for grass-cutting
have run mad in our neck of the woods.
Charges vary from 15s. to 225. 6d. an
hour, despite that every second house-
holder is hiring-out his mower, and any
snotty-nosed brat who borrows Dad’s
machine refuses to look at your grass at
under 12s. 6d. an hour. Our butcher-boy
admits to picking-up a cool 255. for half-
an-hour’s work—“ Well-kept lawn, too ;
none of your rough jobs.” We've just
employed a first-class cabinetmaker who
would appear to be in the wrong employ-
ment —his really excellent workmanship
costs 12s. 6d. an hour.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Phil Anthus”: An imaginative young
typist to whom 1 dictated “lamentable”
turned it into “mementable,” and now
a Queensland journal has accused some-
one of “damentable” ignorance. The
typist’s creation is, perhaps, merely
ornamental, but the journal’s one-letter
alteration, with its suggestion both of
sorrow and of anger, appears to merit a
useful and happy life.
“Central”: Phenylisobutylparahydroxy-
norephedrine.
*2* *> ►>
“Sister Ellell”: Tell “Geep” (B.
18/2/’59) not to lose any sleep over the
wasted assets of miladies Jayne Mansfield
and Sabrina. Maybe the emotional strain
of keeping up the standard prompts
failure in the fount; but in any case
that cantilever-type bosom is not favored
by Ma Nature —she likes ’em small and
spherical for the use of bambinos. Any
bearer of Flo’s lamp who has spent
months training to be in the same race
as the stork will bear me out.
*** *s►
“Baksac”: “So you saw Sherlock
Holmes on TV? What did you think
of him?” I said to my young nephew.
The kid shrugged. “Aw, he’s all right,”
he conceded, “but Watson’s a dumb-
cluck.” I was staggered. Absolute
heresy. And yet ... a seed has been
planted. Dismiss the thought as I do,
J still find myself clandestinely consider-
ing: if Watson had been a little brighter,
maybe Holmes might not . . . No, dam-
mit! The boy’s a renegade.
*X* ❖ ❖
“Roomy”: The expensive country
hotel proudly advertised that its guests
could have a cup of tea at any hour, day
or night ... we were expected to make
it for ourselves: “All facilities provided,”
said the blurb on the brochure. “Quite
like home,” smiled Mrs. Hotel. Milk,
sugar, water, kettle, cups, saucers, and
spoons; even teapots. And a sink in
which to wash-up. But no —if we didn’t
bring it, we had to make it, just like the
advertisement said.
“She knocked him back three times —then he cracked the
ten-bob Special Lottery
AN INDEPENDENT ARMY
“Clive Evatt, Independent M.L.A. for Hurst-
ville, announced the formation of a group of
Independents to contest the N.S.W. election, a
‘solid phalanx' which had worked-out a common
policy.”
What is that sound of marching feet,
Some right, some left, some off-the-beat,
Some moving near, some in retreat?
It’s the Independent Army!
The drums are beating “rat-tat-tat !”
The trumpets trumpet “Waltzing Mat.,”
The tubas, Chopin in D Flat,
To drive the enemy barmy.
And, marching north, south, east and
west
To lead his phalanx in its quest
With his Cyprus medal on his chest,
Clive Evatt is transcendent :
“Hey, that man there, get out of line!”
“Undo that button, you! That’s fine!”
“You’ll never be loyal troops of mine
Unless you’re Independent!”
The General wears a fearful frown :
“As Company A attacks the town,
Company B will cut them down . . . !”
“Huzza, my lads ! That’s glorious . . . /
Now, all you heroes still alive,
Engage in duels to survive
Until there’s only General Clive
Alone, unique, victorious !”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


TT happened in an outer - subur-
ban cinema on the right side of
town. She came down the aisle during
the show and asked a female patron
in the front-stalls about a petticoat to
wear to a party. They were teenagers,
apparently sisters. Film-goer stalled and
tried to cut the scene by saying that
she happened to be wearing the crimson
thing. Party-goer seized sister’s dress,
ripping it from waist to hemline. Yield-
ing to the attack, film-goer went through
a series of motions and, after several
violent body movements, projected the
petticoat into the aisle. The girl went
off to her party, and we slumped back
to our tame fare of rehearsed script and
two-dimensional players.—^“Orion.”
->t+
“Latilla”: With a solid mahogany
double-bed to dispose of I had hopes of
passing it off as an antique, but two
expensive advertisements failed. So I sent
it to a suburban auction-room, and a
month later they sent me a postal-note
for 2s. and a statement of account:
Sale of bed 45., less commission 2s. . . .
2s! I was minus a beautiful bed, and
255. 6d. cash, as the advertisements cost
15s. and the cartage 12s. 6d. Did I hear
anyone say there was a “seller’s market”?
♦j t »:«
“Pelga”: Have often wondered why so
many Victorians are axe-happy tree-
murderers ; but now discover they are
taught these ways by the Education
Department. The February issue of the
“School Paper” (Grades 111 and IV) has
a picture-strip about an elflike creature
who is going to build a house: “But Trot
must think of other things before he
starts to build ; his land must have its
trees pulled out, the holes have to be
filled.” And then is shown the prepared
land —a neat little block as barren as a
desert.
♦j-
“E. & 0.E.”: News of the death of
author Laurence Housman has just
reached us. My own introduction to
him was through his book The Unex-
pected Years, which came out just before
the last war. He explained that he had
always expected to die at 70 —possibly
a Biblical feeling about three-score-and-
ten. When he found himself still alive
and vigorous at this time he decided
to use the extra years in writing his
reminiscences. His better-known older
brother A. E. Housman died in 1936.
Laurence carried on the family banner
to the age of 93.
♦j
“Angus McScupper”: The cigarette-
packer, en route to the girls’ room,
slipped and the cat was out of the bag
—fags spilled from the sleeves of her
carried cardigan, elastic-banded at the
wrists. She was in double-trouble be-
cause at her home the D.’s found her
pilfered hoard consisted mainly of
N.A.A.F.I. excise-free cigarettes, and
that gravely concerned H. M. Customs.
Starting him off in easy stages —first he says boo to a goose.”
As routine they had a look at Aunty’s
room: Aunty worked in a match-factory
and her wardrobe disclosed a large stock
of wcoden-boxed N.Z. excise-free lucifers
-—another one for H. M. Customs. Uncle
worked in an electrical-goods factory,
but the Customs people weren’t interested
in the 15 toasters stacked under his bed.
♦S'
“Piketrailer” (Bahrein): Even Britons
who have never been near Australia
know at least four things: the Sydney-
Melbourne rivalry, the peculiar licensing
laws, Wagga Wagga, and strange happen-
ings on the wharves. Let me hear no
more cracks about the customs and traits
of Aussie wharfies! A Sudanese docker
who arrived on a ship at Liverpool told
officials he fell asleep while working on
the ship at Port Sudan and awoke when
it was well out at sea.
<2*
“Narumee”: Two men came to install
a new tank in the water-heater: half-an-
hour later the sporadic bursts of ear-
splitting song gave way to yells of, “Hey!
Are y’ there?” which brought me at
speed. With proud grins, I was informed
“She’s right.” She didn’t look right. The
vent-pipe had been sawn through and
left gaping; the pressure-valve and the
open end of the drip-pipe were-6in. apart,
with 4in. of broken pipe lying accusingly
between. I pointed this out. “Look,
lady,” they said, with pitying patience,
“all your old man has to do is clamp
a piece of tin round the vent and stick
a piece of rubber-hose on the drip-pipe.”
“Why,” I inquired, “can’t you do it?”
Their mouths gaped wider than the vent.
They were, for appreciable moments,
struck dumb. Then they elucidated:
“Ain't our job. That's plumbing!”
A. A A
V V V
“Fair Mac”: No more do we go down
to the township or up to the shops ; it’s
“the shopping-centre” now. A garage
advertises as “the auto, service and
filling centre.” Our butcher’s shop is a
“modem meat-mart.” no more, but “the
quality meat-centre.” And next-door
to the “baby health-centre” the boot-
maker’s sign proclaims: “Boot repairs
and shoe-centre.” Nor is this a purely
parochial trend. I happened on the sign
in a Sydney street: “Slimming-centre.”
The centre, I must admit, sounds the
logical place to start.
<£♦
“W. St. C. 8.”: During my 10 years
in Kenya before 1923 it was considered
madness to venture out in the tropical
sun without a cork or pith helmet, or
a double-felt hat, and most added a spine-
pad covering the whole spine, and lined
with red. Consequently, revisiting Kenya
after 35 years in Australia, where I
seldom wore a hat, I decided I’d meet
the East African custom halfway, and
invested in an ordinary Australian felt-
hat —not a double one. But when I
landed at Nairobi I was amazed to find
the European population taking no more
heed than the natives of the midday
sun. There was as great a proportion
of Europeans walking hatless at midday


in Nairobi as one would see in London.
It seems remarkable that a tradition so
closely followed for at least half-a-
century should prove an entire fallacy.
Perhaps, as the match-manufacturers are
alleged to have been responsible for the
“three - match superstition,” the hatters
encouraged the East Coast hat-idea.
During the 10 years of my previous
“Into the surf, Rosalind, before I start skylarking and carry you in.”
residence in Kenya, I knew only of one
solitary man, an elderly scion of an
aristocratic British family, who habitually
walked in the sun hatless ; the general
verdict being “not right in the head.”
❖ *> ❖
“Dorian”: Have just got a stereophonic
radiogram, and it looks quite nice in the
same room as my 1956-model high-
fidelity ’grans. In fire next room stands
my piano, which, when I’m tired of
stereophony, can be persuaded to tinkle.
It’s getting to the point where, meeting
a girl, one is tempted to murmur: “Your
teeth gleam like piano-keys, and your
voice has all the brilliance of a dual-
cabinet stereophonic hook-up!”
“In the A.C.T.”: Flat and home-unit
builders, and owners of some more
opulent homes, will be interested in a
new passenger-lift invented in England.
Its cost will be comparatively low, and
no brick shaft or motor-room will be
needed. The lift is supported on one
wall, with a simple enclosure, and can
accommodate three.
Tlackstage at the ballet a sweet
young corps-member dashed up and
importuned me for two pennies. A nearby
old-hand elucidated that she needed
them to get her legwear taut. The waist-
band of her 50-denier tights was inade-
quate, and she would tape a penny inside
her tights a few inches down each leg
and haul to an auxiliary belt. Sockettes
are worn inside the tights’ feet to cushion
the nylon. For soloists, tights are silk at
30-bob a leg extra. An occupational
hazard is rheumatism, result of getting
cold in sweat-soaked tights. On hot nights
the girls would give their tutus to be
able to dance in leotards. They are warm,
cool, absorbent —and wool. —“Lillydale.”
*l* ❖ ❖
“Rustle”: I drew to the side of the
road to let the fire-engine pass, replete
with helmeted crew, clanging bell, hoses
and ladders. A few minutes later another
tore along. I tagged behind, only to find
that the two engines were part of the
entertainment equipment of a children’s
boarding - establishment; superseded
vehicles of the Melbourne Fire Brigade
rejuvenated and repainted to attract the
kids. The helmets were of cardboard
painted with luminous paint.
♦l* +s•
“Duffer”: While I agree with “Bicky”
(B. 25/2/’59) on the ability of racecasters
to ad-lib gags in race-descriptions, I
think his estimate of their speed of over
540 words a minute (nine words a
second!) is well off the rails. Timing one
of Melbourne’s fastest and most com-
petent race-callers (Frank O’Brien, of
3 AW) over six furlongs in the Rosstown
Plate, with 15 runners, I found his speed
to be between 200 and 250 words a
minute. I’ll lay odds-on that anything
much faster than that would be an
unintelligible babble, and at 540 words
a minute I doubt whether the commen-
tator would finish with even half a
breath!
“Meg”: The jobs some people have!
In Hollywood a character earns his liv-
ing by being a dead man: he can hold
his breath for an almost impossible time,
and is invaluable when “shots” of
deceased gangsters, etc., are required.
Another chap gets £3 a time for playing
the part of a yawning man—but if I
yawn at work I don’t get paid any extra
for it.
KNIT-WITS
“Women know the tranquillising effect of
doing knitting and other hand-work during
waiting-time in competitive sport. The time
may yet come when men will overcome preju-
dice and likewise adopt such nerve-soothing
activities.” — Woman’s journal.
When the demon bowlers send
Bumpers flying round their ears,
And the spin-bloke’s struck a length
that’s quite a wonder,
Tying ’em up at either end,
It’s a cert, that many fears
Will arise, which might result in
fatal blunder
By the next-in batsman who
Sits there quaking, as if Doom
Inevitably stalked his go at batting.
Yet he could serenely view
The ordeal, dispel all gloom,
Were he to fill-in waiting-time in
tatting.
See the muddied oafs come in
To excited shrieks and cheers,
The culmination of a matcti
victorious.
Will they celebrate their win
In the dressing-room with beers ?
Nay ! There’s a way far better, less
uproarious.
Hefty “pigs,” no longer rude,
Will be sitting there, apart,
Resuming their embroiding with
stolidity ;
Well they know the tranquil mood
This induced before the start
Was responsible for their dash and
intrepidity.
The pug who’s due to keep
An appointment in the ring
With another who enjoys a reputa-
tion
As a lightning putter-to-sleep,
Should find knitting socks the thing
Best fitted to his needed relaxation.
Sorting out the purl from plain
Kicks anxiety out the door ;
If, later on, a torrid time he’s
copping,
Well, the stitches he will gain
Should prove compensation for
The ones that knitters always must
be dropping.
n.s.w.
S.W.K.


A pal who runs the dispatch of
a big wholesale footwear warehouse
was during a world-class series called
upon to deliver a pair of sports-shoes to
a pro. within five minutes. The courts
were over a mile out of the city, but
supersonic organisation had the footwear
on the feet of the big-shot in 5| min.
“Bit late, aren't you?” was the only
response from the racket-star, who knew
darned well that the delivery-docket was
endorsed “no charge.”—“Bagot.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Old Pivot”: In our Geelong (Vic.)
district two enterprising girls each bought
for a tenner one of the obsolete four-
wheeled baker’s carts supplanted by
three-wheel motorised delivery-vans. They
worked on these in secret for months ;
then, just before Christmas, proudly
presented two wagonettes freshly painted
in contemporary designs and fitted as
kitchen-lounge with portable gas-stove,
and as a bedroom. A friend towed the
vehicles to the seaside, where they’ve
been set-up in a bushland camping-area
as holiday homes-c/fm-caravans.
+j*
“Naz”: Australia’s capital garden-city
encourages each householder to take up
to 60 shrubs and 20 trees free of charge
from the Parks and Gardens section of
the Department of the Interior on the
acquisition of a previously-unoccupied
home, with the added privilege of main-
taining that garden by using as much
water as desired without paying excess-
water charges. But although water is
pouring over the Cotter Dam, the
Minister of the Interior has been forced
to ban fixed hoses and sprinklers between
certain hours —the pumping-system can’t
cope in hot weather, and people in newer
suburbs on the surrounding hills are left
waterless: it’s the only instance in Can-
berra of the parish-pump not working
efficiently.
♦> ❖ *s*
“Fairf”: There was a lighter side to
that ’flu, epidemic of 1919 (B. 4/2/’59).
For three or four glorious weeks N.S.W.
schools were closed as a desperate
measure to save kids from being infected.
We, the protected, used to hurry through
our messages wearing masks made of
three thicknesses of cheesecloth. Chores
done, we’d hotfoot it to the creek, still
enduring the stifling germ-filterers. When
we got to the creek-bank, the masks came
off. We dived, swam, ducked one another
or sat and yarned, until the glorious
summer day was closing, when, masked
to regulations and in groups of not more
than three (as advised) we wandered
homewards. But we didn’t escape scot-
free : every one of us suffered sunburn.
>♦♦ +>
“Hattie Hop”: Not only have lead-
pencils become obsolete (B. 11/2/’59)
but penholders are regarded as curiosities
of antiquity. Mine having given-out, I
was surprised to find that girls behind
stationers’ counters didn’t know what I
meant, and said that they had never seen
one. Rummaging in drawers and boxes
failed to produce one, although all sorts
of queer substitutes were revealed.
Finally, noticing some writing-materials
in a barber’s window, 1 asked the man at
the counter, who, not being young, was
sympathetic, and he began a prolonged
search, probing into the innermost re-
cesses of cupboards and drawers, mur-
muring “There may be just one some-
where,” and finally produced a penholder,
for which he refused payment, assuring
me that he wouldn’t be able to sell it to
“ Well , madam , our next step is to get an extradition-
order to bring your husband back from the moon.”
anyone else, and that he would give, it
to me with the greatest pleasure.
❖ ❖ ❖
*
“Narumee”: “Colossal” is certainly
one of today’s most misused ad-
jectives, but how about "terrific”?
Chambers defines this as: “Creating or
causing terror: fitted to terrify: dread-
ful,” although it is teenageously applied
to everything from ice-cream to athletic
prowess. Only when a wave of perfume
stunned me as one of our local glamor-
pusses wafted by—short-skirt, halters of
globular beads, super-bouffante hair-do,
death-pale complexion, iridescently-
shadowed eyelids—could I concur with
my daughter's breathed, “Doesn’t she
look simply terrific?”
+*+ -ijf
“Mullbong”: At the turn of the
century Fate made me messenger-boy,
dog - walloper, window - dresser, book-
keeper and debt-collector for a King
Street, Sydney, tailoring firm at the
princely salary of 15s. a week of some
60 hours. 1 had to dress to suit my
surroundings, but the cutter and the
girls helped me out by cutting and
making-up, free of charge, the remnants
of suiting I bought cheaply from a
Barrack Street warehouse. In addition
to my magnificent suit I wore a 3in.-high
celluloid collar with cuffs to match, and
was shod in a pair of sample patent-leather
Florsheim shoes, which I bought at a
nominal price from a Jewish dealer
named Rappaport, who had an "un-
claimed” tailor-made-suit shop in Castle-
reagh Street near Park Street. 1 walked
abroad under the shelter of a Woodrow
hardhitter derby hat which cost me
9s. 6d. at Farmer’s. On my salary,
though well aware of the attractiveness
of Is. eateries, I was unable to give
them my patronage. On Friday nights,
when the shop remained open, 1 was
given a zack for tea - money, and as
tuppence was not to be sneezed-at then I
gave my patronage to a fourpenny
restaurant next to the Theatre Royal in
Castlereagh Street —a three-course meal
with a pot of tea and plenty of bread
and butter. I can’t
recall whether a
starched serviette
was supplied, but I
believe we had a
tablecloth. Or I
could go to Joe
Podesta’s in Rowe
Street and fill-up the
crevices with a plate
of peas and chips, a
fried egg and a huge
ice - cream - and -
jelly for a similar
4d. Joe was a color-
ful character, which
made-up for the
rough service, the
crockery, which
could be dropped
with impunity on the
marble tables, and
the discolored Ger-
man-silver cutlery.


POLITICAL POINTS
Playford has done it again! Premier
of South Australia since 1938, he won
his seventh consecutive election on
Saturday. It was said here three weeks
ago (B. 25/2/’59) that S.A. Labor would
need to win three seats to form a Gov-
ernment “and there just don’t appear to
be three that offer much chance of a
swing. In fact, there doesn’t seem to be
one.” And there wasn’t.
• •
Barring last-minute upsets Ridley
could possibly pass from an Independent
to the L.C.L. on preferences —the new
S.A. Parliament will look like the old
one as far as party-strengths are con-
cerned : L.C.L., 20; Labor, 17; Inde-
pendents, 2.
• •
N.S.W. Opposition - leader Morton
allowed nearly a week to pass after his
policy-speech before releasing a letter
from Sir Douglas Copland which stated
that in the prof.’s opinion the financial
proposals in the Liberal-Country-party
programme were “realistic” and that the
problem of paying for the things offered
“should be a manageable one.” Cahill
and his colleagues had spent the inter-
vening days in saying on platforms, the
radio and in press advertisements that
the promises couldn’t be kept. The best
Joe could think up on the spur of the
moment in reply to the professor’s state-
ment was that Sir Douglas had always
been an optimist.
Morton revealed that the
Opposition-parties had submit-
ted their programme to Cop-
land in order to have
independent proof that their
proposals were sound.
• •
S.A. Supreme Court re-
fused to intervene to stop
women candidates contesting
Legislative Council and Legis-
lative Assembly seats, and if
the right of the two women
elected on Saturday is further
challenged the argument will
have to be taken to a Court of
Disputed Returns. In that
case the decision would really
be of academic interest only, as
both the Government and the
Opposition have agreed that If
any legal obstacle stands in the
way of admitting women to
Parliament it will be removed.
• •
By winning the Burnside seat
for the L.C.L., Mrs. Joyce
Steele becomes South Australia’s first
woman M.L.A. Mrs. Geoffrey Cooper
(L.C.L.) is the first woman M.L.C. She
won one of the seats in Central District
No. 2.
• •
N.S.W. Cabineteers don’t save all their
squabbles for the caucus-room. Last
week Lands Minister Gollan and Hous-
ing Minister Landa had a good old-
fashioned barney in full view of the
neighbors and anyone else who cared to
listen. A short time ago Gollan vetoed
Waverley Council’s granting of a lease
of Bondi Beach pavilion to a Rugby
League club. The council thereupon
granted the club a weekly tenancy, and
Gollan announced that he would take
action to have the club evicted (the
pavilion is situated on Crown land).
Landa’s interest in the matter is that
he is M.L.A. for Bondi. At an election-
A BIG BOY NOW!
meeting in Bondi he said that Gollan’s
yiews were his own and not those of
Cabinet. Gollan’s reaction to this was
“Tell him I said he’s a damned liar,” and
Landa’s retort was that Gollan was a
nice old man of 73. Landa is 68.
Somewhere in the middle of the argu-
ment Landa said that Gollan wouldn’t
be standing for the Ministry this time.
Gollan replied that that had been his
intention, but that now his fighting-blood
was roused and he would stand. Both
Ministers were overlooking the fact that
unless they win the election neither of
them will get an opportunity of standing
for the Ministry.
• •
Local Reds will have to do another
back - somersault. Last year they were
abusing the Government for allowing
Alfried Krupp to visit Australia. On
Saturday at Leipzig Trade Fair Khrush-
chev toasted the firm of Krupp and asked
for his “personal best wishes” to be
conveyed to Alfried.
• •
Pat Morton obviously isn’t super-
stitious. One of his promises—9o,ooo
houses in three years—had an ominous
ring about it. That’s exactly what Jim
McGirr promised back in 1947, and how
lamentably short of it he fell! Still,
McGirr, though he denied it later, pro-
mised to build the homes —which meant
through the Housing Commission.
Morton hasn’t committed himself to that.
His proposal is to make it easier and
cheaper for private persons to build
homes or get homes built.
• •
On Saturday Sydney “Herald” ran a
full-page ad. giving the children’s TV-
programmes for the week on ATN-
Channel 7. Good red-blooded stuff.
Cowboys and redskins ; American detec-
tives ; American space-ships; American
comics ; American navy ; American big-
game hunters; Western marshals.
Twenty-seven shows in all. Of course,
they’re not all American. Only 26
of ’em.
• •
Clive Evatt’s reference to his band of
Independents as “a solid phalanx” seems
rather a contradiction of terms. Can a
phalanx be solid if its individual mem-
bers are independent? The Macedonian
phalanx was a “formation of hoplites,
with ranks eight to 16 deep.” Are Clive’s
independent followers hoplites? Is
Clive a hoplite? What is a hoplite? For
an independent development of this
theme, see “Swilliam,” on page 8.
• •
Sometime yesterday, somewhere in
Australia, someone became current Aus-
tralian No. 10,000,000. Who he or she
is no one will ever know, but in years
to come there’ll be plenty of claimants
from among those whose birth-certificates
show March 10, 1959,


Premier Cahill says the Opera House
unites the political parties. That’s more
than the Macquarie Street Unmusical
Comedy House has ever been able to do.
• •
Hire-purchase has been blamed for
many things, but the prize should go to
a correspondent of the “West Australian”
who rates it as one of the chief factors
in the decline of horse-racing.
• •
Morton's promise of free travel for
children on school - buses those who
travel by rail already get free passes—
is probably causing Labor more worry
than the rest of his “We wills” - put
together. Cahill says it can’t be done,
but Morton claims he can pay for it out
of savings in cost of administration:
We have already looked into it, and it
can be done. Revenue in N. S. Wales is
about £l4O million a year. If, after 18
years of Labor rule, 1 couldn't bring about
a saving of between two and two-and-a-half
per cent, of that, I would eat my hat and
chew the ribbon.
Hat-devouring promises may be old
stuff, but they still convey confidence in
one’s statements —especially when the
ribbon is thrown in for dessert.
• •
Tape-recorders or verifying shorthand-
writers to record interviews at police-
stations are needed, according to Mr.
Justice Sholl of the Victorian Supreme
Court, but in reply to this Police Com-
missioner Porter says there is no substi-
tute for the efficient, honest endeavor of
a good policeman. There’s no substitute
for the efficient, honest endeavor of a
good judge acting on good evidence,
either, and in the case which the judge
threw out, a statement was taken from a
tired 13-year-old boy in the early hours
of the morning.
• •
Holland will have a general election
on Thursday as a sequel to the break-up
of the coalition Government last Decem-
ber, since when a caretaker Cabinet
under Professor Beel has been in charge.
In the old Parliament the coalition con-
sisted of four parties Labor, with 50
seats ; Catholic People’s party, 49 ; Anti-
Revolutionary party, 15 ; Christian
Historical Union, 13. The remainder of
the 150 seats were distributed: Liberals,
13 ; Communists, 7 and Political Re-
form, 3.
At municipal elections last year Labor
lost ground a little and it is assumed
that no party has any chance of getting
an absolute majority. Some sort of
coalition Government is expected, but the
parties aren't committing themselves till
they see the numbers on the board.
• •
The challenge to the right of women to
sit in the S.A. Legislative Council
caused a mild stir in political circles,
which perhaps explains why the Adelaide
“Advertiser” spoke of the possibility of
the matter being referred to the Court of
Disrupted Returns.
The West Australian Government’s
decision to use its second £2i-million
Commonwealth grant on the Ord River
irrigation project (B. 4/3/’59) has been
rescinded. The money will be spent on
three projects already approved:
1. A deep-water port at Black Rocks, near
Derby.
2. Extensions to the jetty at Wyndham.
3. Survey of the Napier-Broome Bay area.
This information was given by the
Prime Minister in reply to a question in
the Reps, by Peter Browne, new M.H.R.
for Kalgoorlie, and was confirmed by
W.A. Premier Hawke. Meanwhile, the
Commonwealth Government will investi-
gate the Ord River scheme, which may
later be the subject of an additional grant.
• •
Khrushchev is reported to have said
to a group of Western diplomats, “Let’s
sign a peace-treaty with Germany. We
will sign with East Germany and you
can sign with West Germany. After all,
you signed a treaty with Japan before
we did.” Apparently no one thought to
remind him that if Russia had delayed
its declaration of war on Japan much
longer the Pacific war would have been
over and Moscow would have had no
seat at the peace conference at all.
• •
Recent comments by High Commis-
sioner Sir Eric Harrison on the ignorance
in Britain of Australia suggest that our
expensive publicity set-up there has
achieved little. They add point to Eric
Kennedy’s recommendation that the size
of the Australian News and Information
Bureau should be reduced. Kennedy
found considerable overlapping of func-
tions between members of the Bureau
staff and publicity-officers employed by
other departments.
• •
“D.”: The stately-homes belt in Mel-
bourne, notably . Heyington, where you
can still smell horses, wasn’t successful
this year in getting the Liberal confer-
ence to vote in favor of a series of State
lotteries to pay for the new art-gallery
and cultural centre at Wirths’ Park site.
The gallery and centre is now returning
£15,000 a year as a car-park, and as. the
culture-centre will cost £4 million it
would take about 240 years to save-up the
finance at the present rate. But, after
all, art is long.
• •
At the Australian Natives’ Association
quinquennial conference in Sydney during
March 2-6, delegate J. E. Menadue said
that the main source of interest by Asians
in migrating to Australia had been
prompted by “idealistic” organisations
within Australia sending out propaganda
to Asians against the White Australia
policy. “Australia has a sovereign right
to maintain her White Australia,” said
Menadue, “just as China and other Asian
countries have the sovereign right to
exclude Australians and other peoples of
Europe. Asians have greater natural
resources than Australia, and can more
easily support 1000-million people than
Australia can at present support 20
million. If the Australian White Aus-
tralia policy is obnoxious to some
people, the Black Australian policy being
preached by Quotaists is not acceptable
to the great majority of Australians.”
• •
Attacking Opposition-leader Morton as
“the prince of airy promises,” an A.L.P.
election-sheet accuses him of bouncing
into Cowra, promising it a modern hos-
pital and bustling out again. The story
goes on to say that this promise would
have been well received but for the fact
that Premier Cahill had already opened a
magnificent hospital in the heart of
Cowra last November. Morton’s reply
is that he was last in Cowra in June,
1958, and that he made no statement
about a hospital on that occasion and
has made none since.
• •
Victorian Liberals agreed to a resolu-
tion seeking the appointment of a diplo-
matic representative to Nationalist China
after Sir Wilfrid Kent Hughes, M.H.R.,
told them he had been unable to explain
to the Nationalists why Australia was
represented diplomatically in every free
Asian country except Formosa.
• •
Tito’s visit to Ceylon last January went
off smoothly, according to reports, and
Ceylonese journalists were . told by
Yugoslav security men that their vigilance
had been relaxed in Ceylon to a greater
degree than in any other countries on
the tour. Nevertheless the Ceylonese
reporters found the Marshal’s bullet-
proof vest noticeable when he bent down.
He continued to wear it in spite of, or
perhaps because of, the relaxed attitude
of Ceylonese and Yugoslav detectives.
• •
Whichever side wins the N.S.W. elec-
tion will get an unwelcome inheritance.
A High Court decision has ordered
the N.S.W. Government to refund £5467
paid by inter-State hauliers H. J. and E.
Mason in 1953-54 for carriers’ permits.
The decision affects similar claims already
lodged to the tune of £1 million, with
possibly more to come.
• • •
[From Canberra]
Post-mortem on the Evatt-Ward vote :
Had all the Right-wingers voted for Ward,
he would have won the ballot, but their plan
was not to let Eddie win but to give him
enough votes to give the Doc. the shock of
his life.
The 46-32 vote would, in any other circum-
stances, have been a great triumph for Ward
or any other opponent against the Doc., but
the Right-wingers made sure they would with-
hold the eight votes Ward needed to tip the
scales in his favor.
Evatt now knows that in any future chal-
lenge to his leadership he will have to woo,
and practically wed, the Right-wingers.
He claims that Ward got every Right-wing
vote, totalling about 25, and got solid support
only l'tom his own followers of seven. How-
ever, Ward claims that almost 20 of his votes
were dinkum and that he only got about 12, or
fewer than half, the Right-wing vote.


Personal
ITEMS
Appointed director of Princess Alexan-
dra’s Australian tour, W. R. Cumming,
assistant-secretary of the Prime Minister’s
Department, hails from Queensland. He
directed the Queen’s visit to Canberra
in 1954, was joint director of the Duke
of Edinburgh’s tour in 1956, and helped
to arrange the Queen
Mother’s trip last
year. Cumming will
go to England next
month to discuss
with the Princess
details of her tour.
• •
On Wednesday of
last week nine lasses
on the staff of the
Standards Associa-
tion, Sydney, clubbed
together to give
Lancelot (“Taffy”)
Owen a fine fare-
well dinner at the
Wentworth. For
“Taffy,” who is well
known to Bulletin
readers for his ex-
pert oil-search com-
mentaries, is retiring
from the Standards
Association, some-
one having found
out that his years
belie his youthful
and energetic
appearance. This
was the first of a
series of farewell
dinners “Taffy” will
be attending before
March 31 ; and. he
will make an enter-
taining guest-of-
honor. He has tested
the oil and tasted the
wines of many coun-
tries, and played a
part in two World Wars, booby - traps
being his speciality.
• •
W. H. Halliday, who celebrated the
35th aniversary of his entrance into the
Westralian Education Department by
taking-over as principal of the Graylands
(W.A.) Teachers’ Training-College, passed
through the junior grades of the teaching-
service and holds B.A. and B.Sc. degrees
and the Diploma of Education from the
Westralian University. On the staff of
Claremont Teachers’ College for the past
11 years, he had been vice-principal
there since 1955. In 1955 and 1956 he
worked for Unesco as a science-teacher
at Bandoeng, Indonesia, and while there
gathered material for the thesis which
gained him the Master of Education de-
gree from Melbourne University.
Unless you’d heard it somewhere, or
the solid rugged quality of his features
told you, you’d hardly guess that Charles
Moses, general-manager of the A.B.C.
since 1935, had earlier on been a
leading amateur boxer in Victoria —
so he must have been pretty good. He figured
MOSES
also in the Cabbage State’s Rugby Union and
athletics, and still keeps a live interest in those
sports, and in woodchopping—and (in person)
walking (he celebrated his 50th birthday by
padding the hoof 50 miles —in good time, too).
From when he became the A.B.C.’s g.-m.
he has been urging the formation of full-time
symphony orchestras in each State capital. He
bought the title “Sydney Symphony Orchestra”
from a man in Leichhardt (Sydney) for £10;
and, generally, much of the credit for the high
standard of Australian orchestras is his.
Pictured here to the life by Dubois, he was
born in England, burdened with the middle
names of James Alfred, and educated at
Oswestry (Shropshire) Grammar School and
Sandhurst. He was commissioned in the 2nd
Bn. The Border Regiment in 1918 and served
with them until 1922. Coming to Australia,
he started as a fruitgrower, next tried his hand
as a motor-salesman, and then (in 1930) joined
the N.B.S. as announcer, and three years
later was sporting and talks editor of the
A.B.C. in N.S.W. He has given great emphasis
to sport in A.B.C. programmes.
In War II he went to Malaya with the A.1.F.,
escaped with General Gordon Bennett after
the fall of Singapore, and was later in New
Guinea in the sorapping at Buna and Sanananda.
He was a lieut.-colonel when recalled by John
Curtin to take-up his former job again.
Mentioned in dispatches in 1943, he was
awarded the C.B.E. in 1954.
• •
Westralian - born Russell S. Turner
goes to a top post as Shell Chemical’s
industrial sales-manager in Australia. A
Perth Wesley College boy, he graduated
from the Westralian University in 1946
and joined the Shell co. as a chemist
at its Newport (Vic.) Installation
Laboratories. After two years in London
with Shell Chemical as technical repre-
sentative, he worked in Sydney for three
years as sales-representative. In 1955 he
became the first State manager for the
company in Westralia.
• •
Over on a visit from New Zealand,
with a pleasing nostalgia for Sydney and
a pocketful of poems about Peru, William
Hart-Smith dropped-in at The Bulletin
office last week. Born in England, he has
been fluctuating between Australia and
New Zealand since 1924 and never really
knows which country he is living in ;
but since 1946 he has been fairly firmly
in New Zealand, where he has a wife
and three children. He has been working
in adult-education and advertising. He
has a new book, Poems of Discovery
(the Columbus sequence and later poems),
being published by Angus and Robertson
in April; and on March 19 at 8 p.m.
at the rooms of the Australian Poetry
Society, 217 a George Street, Sydney, he
is to give a reading of modern New
Zealand poetry.
• •
Baron Karl Von Guttenberg, a member
of the West German Parliamentary
Foreign Affairs Committee, has been con-
ferring with Prime Minister Menzies,
External Affairs Minister Casey and the
Foreign Affairs Committee on the Berlin
problem. He says that West Germany
is united in its attitude to Soviet pressure,
and is convinced that a firm stand must
be maintained by the West if the crisis
is to be settled by peaceful means. He
plans to visit New Zealand before return-
ing home via the United States.
• •
"Met at Perth airport on his way to
Sydney, Alistair Campbell Mars, the
submarine-commander who became a
novelist. He first went to sea in 1932
and 10 years later won the D.S.O. for
sinking two enemy cruisers. The D.S.C.
and Bar were added for the sinking of
enemy craft in Far Eastern waters. The
Germans made him a pin-up on the walls
of messes —as a dangerous enemy.
• •
After a nine-months’ study-tour
abroad, Dr. F. Duras, director of Physi-
cal Education at Melbourne University,
believes that Victoria has as good an
answer to juvenile delinquency as any-
where. He says that every country he


visited had a teenage problem, with West
Germany the worst, owing to the after-
math of the war and the stream of
refugees coming in from the East. The
Victorian idea in reducing juvenile delin-
quency is to fill teenagers’ leisure-time
more profitably.
• - •
Dr. J. H. Lindell, chairman of the
Victorian Hospitals Commission, is off
on a five-months tour starting in April,
with the object of studying overseas
hospital-trends, the latest
methods of treatment for the aged.
• •
Andor Fold e s, Hungarian-born,
naturalised American pianist now tour-
ing Australia for the A.8.C., made his
initial bow to the public when as an
accomplished seven-year-old he played
a Mozart concerto with the Budapest
Philharmonic Orchestra. Study under
pianist-composer Ernst von Dohnanyi
followed, and winning the International
Liszt Competition at 19 gave - him the
green-light to the recital-highway, which
he’s been travelling ever since, his concert-
tours taking him all over Europe and the
Americas and to Africa. For his work in
aiding the rebuilding of the Beethoven
Hall in Bonn he was awarded the Cross
of Merit by the German Federal Republic
—violinist Yehudi Menuhin is the only
other foreign holder of it. In 1957 Foldes
was appointed professor to succeed
Walter Gieseking at the Saarbrucken State
Conservatorium, where he holds monthly
master-classes. Author of Keys To the
Keyboard, which has been translated into
eight languages, the 45-year-old virtuoso
has both the temperament and the tech-
nical and interpretative equipment to be
able to dispense with any phony manner-
isms on the platform. Off it, composing
and collecting pictures and stamps are his
chief interests.
PIANIST
“Urarnao”: One of the five big chiefs
of the U.N.’s new International Atomic
Energy Agency at Vienna will be G. E.
Roth, director of the Dominion X-ray
and Radium Laboratory, Christchurch
(N.Z.). Roth came from Vienna in 1938
to a job in cancer-research at the Univer-
sity of Canterbury, and has represented
N.Z. at triennial gatherings of the Inter-
national Congress on Radiology in
London, Copenhagen and Mexico City:
He’s a world authority on radiation-
protection.
• •
“M.F.D.”: Journalist Edmund Garnet
Bonney, who died recently at his Avalon
(N.S.W.) home, aged 72, once told me
he owed any success he had achieved to his
early training in Grafton. He was a junior
reporter on the “Argus” there when I first
met him, fully 50 years ago. Juniors had to
deal with practically every assignment, even
to proof-reading, and young Bonney soon
showed he could handle anything that came
his way. In due course he moved to Sydney,
and we did not meet again for many years.
In the interval Bonney had filled such important
posts as the editorship of the “News” and
“Mail” (Adelaide) and Melbourne “Argus.”
In 1940 he was appointed chief publicity-censor,
and this inevitably brought him several times
into open conflict with his old love, the daily
newspapers, though his inside knowledge of the
game always stood him in good stead. In 1943
he was appointed Director-General of Informal
(ion, later relinquishing this post to go to the
department's New York office. Shortly before
leaving for New York he was a member of the
Government-appointed Fitzgerald committee,
which inquired into the administrative set-up of
the A.8.C., with particular attention to the
independent news-service.
• •
The name of de Burgh first became
well known in and around Sydney be-
cause of E. M. de Burgh, M.1.C.E., who
came to Australia in the ’eighties from
the Royal College of Science in Dublin,
joined the N.S.W. Public Works Depart-
ment, and became Chief Engineer and
a mighty builder of dams, leaving to
posterity such enduring works as
Cataract, Cordeaux, Avon, Nepean,
Burrenjuck, and the Hume dams, and
many bridges, including that Sydney
landmark, de Burgh’s Bridge over the
Lane Cove River. His elder son, Tom
de Burgh, M.1.C.E., M.I.E. Aust.,
L.G.E., followed the parental example
in engineering by graduating B.E. in
civil engineering at Sydney Uni., joining
the Public Works Department and work-
ing on railways and tramways, roads and
bridges and sewerage construction when
that department was responsible for
those things. In 1928, when the Water
Board took-over its own construction-
work, Tom de Burgh was taken-over, too,
and worked mainly in the field on major
constructions until he retired in 1954.
Within a month of his retirement he
returned to the board itself as the elected
member for Sydney’s northern suburbs,
which might be called a hot seat in dry
times, and in which he is a vociferous
advocate for the hastening of large works
now in progress to deliver more water
to those areas. He was, incidentally, a
founder of the original Light Car Club
of N.S.W., and responsible for the estab-
lishment of the Mount Panorama
Bathurst Circuit.
Herewith Christopher Koch, whose
first novel, The Boys in the Island, was
recently reviewed on the Red Page. Born
in Tasmania 26 years ago, he was first
a press-artist on Hobart “Mercury,”
from which start he graduated as novelist
NOVELIST
by way, he says, of 17 jobs, mainly con-
cerned with reading, writing or teach-
ing, but including a two-months’ trip
through India, visits to Europe and 18
months in England, where he worked for
part of the time as waiter in a coffee-shop.
His verse has appeared in The
Bulletin and “Southerly”. London
newspapers speak highly of this present
novel and he's now working on a second.
• •
Tnto the Silence:
At 49, J. B. McAdam, Director of Forests
for Papua and New Guinea. After War 11, in
which he won the M.M. in New Guinea, he
was appointed Director of Forests there, in
which post he helped to develop the pine-forests
in the Bulolo Valley.
Jn Perth, at 87, Walter Richardson, for over
50 years a leading figure in civic activities of
Subiaco (W.A.) as councillor and mayor. He
was in Parliament as a Labor member from
1921 to 1933.
Tn Sydney, at 61, E. R. Badgery-Parker,
president of the Anti-Tuberculosis Association
of N.S.W., past-president of the Sydney Savage
Club and of the Australian Association of
National Advertisers, and member of Legacy.
At Wellington (N.Z.), at 82, J. W. Carr, who
in his 60 years with the A.M.P. Society won
for the company over £ll-million-worth of
new business. He took an active part on many
public bodies in Wellington. Clyde Carr, M.P,
for Timaru (N.Z.), is his brother.
In Perth, at 89, Frederick Austen Woodman,
former civil servant, who had been secretary
of the United Friendly Societies in Westralia
for the past 52 years.
At Cheltenham .(Vic.), at 72, F. A. Cameron,
for 10 years M.L.A. for Kara Kara and Borung
and later a Moorabbin city councillor. He was
an executive member of the Wheatgrowers’
Association.
At Ringwood (Vic.), at 58, Alfred Kelly,
town clerk since 1950. He served in War II
with the 6th Div.


ABORIGINALITIES
Tnterested to read in “Time Means
Tucker” of Bush Brother Feetham,
afterwards Bishop of North Queensland
(not of Carpentaria, as “Duke” Tritton
says) for.over 30 years.
Countless stories of this well-loved,
unconventional prelate abound in the
north. Tall and lean, clad in khaki shirt
and trousers, elastic-side boots, concertina-
leggings and panama-hat, he rode round
his diocese in the early days, his swag,
robes and episcopal staff on a packhorse.
Later, he evidently drove his car in
much the same erratic way Tritton says
he rode a horse, for it used to be said
the main rules of the road in Towns-
ville were: “Keep to the left, and watch-
out for the Bishop.”
Intensely interested in his fellowmen,
he had an astonishing memory, and
would greet a person, met perhaps once
before, with details of their former meet-
ing, and interested inquiries of all other
members of the family by name.
Tritton gives a very true picture of this
learned, simple man.
Faraway.
“R.A.McC.”: That McMaster bull
mentioned by “Duke” Tritton (B.
11/2/’59), which was nicknamed Bonser,
was more likely Baritone. Bred in Vic-
toria and purchased by lohn McMaster,
of Binnia Downs, in Sydney for
1750gns.—a record at that time for a
yearling bull —it won the championship
in Sydney four times in succession ; but
it was a freak. Always enormously fat,
it couldn’t get round the ring in the
Grand Parade without being given a
spell. It was a failure at the stud. Sir
Frederick McMaster, of Dalkeith, had
Herefords.
* * * *
“Simon Scrawler”: At the peak of
Victoria’s heatwave tree-limbs of up to
“I keep gettin' calypsoes down here, boss.”
14in. diameter snapped like carrots.
There was no wind at the time, and the
trees affected were red-gum and apple-
box, both short-grained, dense timber.
I’ve seen the same thing in high-altitude
forests during periods of intense frost.
There, the species affected were woolly-
butt and mountain-ash long-fibred
timbers with plenty of “give.”
* * * *
“Stromlo”: Could be there isn’t a
New Guinea native who hasn’t seen a
plane. There are now 42 dromes capable
of taking DC3s, as well as dozens of
strips for light aircraft. Major air-
problem is that the rugged terrain makes
night-flying a bit of a risk.
* * *
“Sevenelms”: We timber-experts got a
dint in our self-esteem because the old
cider-shed was lined with 12in. x lin.
boards of an unfamiliar wood. We cut
samples, both edge and slash-grain;
planed them; smelled, tasted and
scrutinised them, and decided it was
basswood. For confirmation, we took a
sample to the C.5.1.R.0., where a chit
of a girl equipped with a ponytail, card-
index and magnifying-glass came-up in
two minutes flat with the right answer-
magnolia, probably Malayan.
* • * «
“P. Nuyts”: “O.G.’s” friend might be
surprised to learn there’s not a skerrick of
lead in a lead-pencil (B. 11/2/’59); the
writing medium is composed of graphite
and a special type of clay. Graphite
was formerly called plumbago, from
the Greek for “I write,” and was mis-
called black-lead. It’s been used for
writing for centuries, and for a long
while that was its principal use. Now
it forms an important part of the atomic-
pile.
* * * *
“Sanasi”: What is all this talk I hear
about Papua-New Guinea coffee being
not “Numba wan” and, in Australia by
the merchants, being “of use for blend-
ing purposes only”? Is it that the mer-
chants are putting one over our present
(post-war) growers, or is it that the
growers are not producing as good a
'•coffee as that I used in the Roman
Catholic mountain area in Papua back
in the ’twenties? I am not a coffee
expert, but I have travelled the world and
have found the Papuan coffee (a real
good “black roast,” which I am informed
Australians do not like, preferring the
“brown roast”) equal to the best coffees
dispensed in the U.S. or London. Every-
body knows the excellent Egyptian coffee
LINES TO A DINOSAUR
Down there my Dinosaur:
On ebb-tide from the tumbled promon-
tory
Where the tormented rocks, hell-hewn,
Upthrusted, burn
Fretted outlines on the brazen sea.
Came there on some primeval afternoon
When fronded fern
Had place of coral and anemone —
A day when rock was slime,
Not yet the troubled bed of moon-racked
tide—
Arch-necked in steaming swamp, my
Dinosaur,
Slow-humping, misty-eyed,
Stamping its signature of scaly claw
To set upon the manuscripts of time.
This mark its own,
More meaningful than skull or vertebrce ;
Bone is but bone ;
This was the sign of flesh, bluntly aware
Of darkness and the day
And turn of time on Mesozoic air,
The warm of ooze and cool of cloud
and rain,
Wet scent of weed, green taste,
Quick prick of pain.
This three-pronged hollow that my hands
define
Spans in a thought the dim, eroding waste
Between that hour and mine.
W.A.
MARY DURACK.


THE UNPLACED FAVORITE


(London), the Brazilian (U.S.), and the
wishy-washy rubbish served in Australia.
No wonder visiting Yanks are so critical!
I suggest our roasters and blenders go
overseas to learn how to process a good
coffee. In my time in Papua there was
nothing wrong with the delicious coffee
grown and processed—and with native
labor, too —by the foreign R.C. mis-
sionaries, who, apparently, had the
know-how!
• * • «
“Spinifex”: Notice a report that a
chap at Newcastle (N.S.W.) Zoo pro-
“Why didn't you give a stop-signal ?”
poses to put a track down for emu-racing,
having got the idea from seeing emu-
races in a Russian film. “There’s no
doubt about the Russians, they get some
bright ideas,” he was reported to have
said. Well, they may have got this one
a bit belatedly from yours humbly
“Spinifex,” under which monicker I per-
petrated in The Bulletin, round about
1907, a 16-stanza verse in which a
boundary - rider named Dick O’Grady
rung-in a racing emu at a trotting meet-
ing at Miandetta and cleaned-up a
packet.
* * * *
“Duke” Tritton: In my day, on the
concrete-board, a man who could not
shovel either hand would find it hard to
get a job. Two men turning concrete,
both right-handers, means that one is
working crosshanded, which is not
only harder work but slower, and
therefore frowned - on by bosses. So
it was taken for granted that a
man applying for a job on a concrete-
board could use either hand equally
well. The same applied to load-
ing drays; a left-hander on one side,
a right-hander on the other. And chang-
ing sides every three or four loads was
a break, especially if a strong wind was
blowing, when one man would be eating
dust all day, while the other would be
working in comparative comfort. As for
axemen, any bloke who couldn’t swing
Kelly either hand wasn’t considered an
axeman’s bootlace. I would say the pro-
portion of ambidextrous axemen would
be nearly 100 per cent. Before the air-
compressor and jackhammer, the men on
hammer and tap would be in the same
proportion. In their case it would be
absolutely necessary for them to be able
to strike the drill from almost every
angle. And beating a drill has no margin
for errors. A foul blow will jar the
hands of the man turning the drill, while
a miss means broken bones.
* * * *
“R.A.McC.”: “Curio” is wrong in
thinking that a fleece thrown over the
head cannot be put on the table skin-
side-down (B. 18/2/’59). It’s quite a
simple matter if the picker-up gathers
the fleece away from himself, instead
of towards him, as customary. It became
something of craze in sheds for a time,
but was regarded as a sort of smart-aleck
stunt; and lots of boys, till they got
the knack of picking-up the fleece, would
dump it in a heap on the table, causing
much delay to the wool-rollers. In one
double-board shed, with the cross-belt
running over the wool-table, 1 remember
a picker-up, trying to display an extra-
high toss, sending the fleece into the
revolving belt. In a flash it was being
wound round the main-shaft. It stopped
the shed, and the expert took nearly an
hour getting it out again.
* * # #
“Bass”: The bob-tailed lizard gives
the impression of being the sort of de-
hydrated citizen who could go through
life without developing a thirst; and
since he often inhabits thirsty country,
where he’d sometimes have to go for
months without a sight of moisture, he
must be fairly drought-resistant. By the
same token, when he strikes a pool after
a long waterless stretch he reveals a
capacity many a hard drinker would
envy. Came across one drinking at a
puddle left by the first rain for over
three months. While I watched he must
have soaked up about a pint-and-a-half
before he waddled off into the scrub —
presumably to lef the moisture penetrate
his dried-out tissues.
“Kerba”: Granted that “Spin’s” several
nominees are adepts at aerobatics at speed
(B. 4/2/’59); but my wad would still be
on the scissors-grinder. Saw three of
the little skylarkers having a whale of
a time running along the ground into a
roaring westerly, taking-off, being swept
back, turning an inside back-cartwheel
about 6ft. in diameter in the process,
then landing on their feet to repeat the
performance. Further, only the ’grinders’
cousin Willie can match the little
chatterer’s skill in flirting with fierce,
feline death for week after week. And
a bird that can cause an attacking, nest-
ing magpie to break off the engagement
and get a hiding in the retreat also gets
my nomination as the best feathered
scrapper for his weight in the world.
* * * *
“Manamoi”: In recommending well-
water for irrigation in the Moree (N.S.W.)
district, the Department of Water Con-
servation and Irrigation emphasises that
only wells which receive their water by
soakage from the river are suitable. Resi-
dents with long memories will endorse
this warning. In 1902 the Department
of Agriculture had an experimental
irrigation-farm, managed by Mr. B. L.
Thompson, on the outskirts of Moree.
Around 600,000 gallons a day came from
an artesian - bore, and first results
were remarkable. Green - fodder crops
flourished, also oranges, pears, plums,
almonds, peaches and nectarines; but,
as in other experiments of this
kind, the soil became too highly
impregnated with minerals from water
which contained 64 parts per million
of them, mostly sodium-carbonate and
sodium-chloride. Though fatal to plant-
life, it was found to be beneficial to
sufferers from rheumatism and nervous
complaints, as the famous baths were
built on the farm-site.
* * * *
“Pieter Nuyts”: Every autumn, for a
day or two, my paddocks around a swamp
became covered with gossamer fine
spider-web which floats along, sometimes
for a few hundred yards, until it catches
in tall grass or drops to earth as the
sun sinks and the air cools. Each of
those gossamer-strands carries a newly-
hatched spider, and the sole object of
the web is to carry the baby as far as
possible from its mother’s hunting-
grounds, so that it won’t compete with
her for food and there’ll be less danger
of her eating it. Just one of the strange
ways in which Nature ensures the
preservation of species. The web
is almost unbelievably light, and with
any wind at all it would be blown too
far and too high—that happens some-
times as it is ; so the webs are released
when there’s a minimum of breeze. The
gossamer gets enough “lift” for itself
and its burden from the fact that the
sun’s rays impinging on it radiate suffi-
cient heat to warm the surrounding air
and create an updraft—a flying-machine
that operates solely on solar energy.


ROCKET POWER
for your car...
Gives you all these
advantages ...
• ROCKET POWER!
0 More miles per gallon
0 Easier starting
0 Smoother, quieter running
0 Longer engine life
0 Fast acceleration
Australia's FIRST
BORON Petrol
Ampol Boron Special is Australia’s
only Boron petrol. It is the best
petrol you can buy! Test it your-
self. Fill up with Ampol Boron
Special to-day! Costs no more
than the Super Grade petrols it
replaces. Get rocket power for the
road at no extra cost.
NOTHING MATCHES BORON!
- AUSTRALIAN OWNED!


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. URQUHART, M. D. PASSMORE, K. W. A. BRIDGES
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
BWBI7I (3 lines) 8L5327
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECELEX,” Sydney
DAVIS. ROTHWELL & CO.
(Incorporating Headlam, Hewson & Co.)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.)
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BJj 1855 (3 lines)
193 Summer Street, Orange.
Orange 4054
Telegraphic and Cable Address, “RETEP/ 1 Sydney.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
LINOLEUM HOLDINGS, LTD.
A fter 32 years of develop-
ment and consolidation,
the Michael Nairn linoleum
offshoot in Australia is making
one of its very rare share-
issues. (The previous one was
in 1949, and totalled £125,000.)
Ploughed-back profits, visible
and invisible, and moderate
help from the bank and sundry
creditors have looked after
most of the development-
finance needed during all that
period.
The operating-co., Michael
Nairn (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., is
making a one-for-two ord. issue
at par—£2so,ooo all told,
carrying paid capital up to
£750,000 and Linoleum
Holdings, Ltd., which has a
21.3 p.c. interest in the
working-co., is making an issue
in the same ratio in order to
subscribe its quota.
The only asset, other than
“petties,” owned by Linoleum
Holdings (paid capital at pre-
sent £106,666), is 106,666 £1
shares in Michael Nairn
(Aust.). The rest of the Nairn
scrip is owned mainly by the
Nairn cos. in Scotland and
Canada, and by Meggitt, Ltd.,
which also has an interest in
Lino. Holdings itself.
It took a long time to
stabilise the industry. Michael
Nairn (Aust.) in 1927 took
over from Linoleum Holdings
(then Linoleum Manufactur-
ing Co. of Australia) what was
originally the business of the
Australian Linoleum Co., Ltd.,
at Auburn (N.S.W.), and
which was finding the going
difficult.
Meggitt, besides supplying
finance, has also supplied the
linseed-oil used in making the
lino.
The new set-up soon ran
into the depression, and it
wasn’t until 1936 that a div.
came from the manufacturing
co. Lino. Holdings paid its
first div. in 1939, after a
capital-reconstruction in 1938.
During the war, divs. were
infrequent. After the war
distributions were patchy for
some time. Following the
credit-squeeze of 1951, Michael
Nairn showed a loss in 1952,
and no div. filtered through to
Lino, shareholders.
Since then results, though
variable, have been much
better—at times quite hand-
some, and seemingly much
better than they look. The
“If it isn't a rude question , how much am I being caught
for as interest?"
operating-co. does not publish
p.-and-l. details, but from
balance-sheet figures it would
appear that profits averaged
about 34 p.c. on capital in
1953 and 1954, and in 1957
were about 16.7 p.c., in 1958
20.5 p.c. (Its financial year
ends on September 30 ; that of
Lino. Holdings on January 31.)
In view of the fact that no
taxation provision is disclosed,
it isn’t possible to check on
profit-estimates, but balance-
sheet figures suggest that de-
preciation and other provi-
sions have been entirely
adequate:
Michael Nairn and Co. (Aust.) Ptv.,
Ltd.
1957. 1958.
Capital .. .. £500,000 £500,000
Reserves .. 769,921 ' 832,317
Overdraft . . 474,674 390,961
Creditors, tax, etc. 505,627 558,325
£2,250,222 £2,281,603
Freeholds, etc... 225,500 237,908
Plant, fittings .. 215,901 .269,664
Stocks .. .. 1,212,128 1,079,464
Debtors .. 565,881 663,935
Cash, etc. .. 810 630
Intangibles .. 30,002 30,002
£2,250,222 £2,281,603
In 1952 freeholds, etc., were
in the books at £148,723 ; last
term they figured at £237,908.
Plant six years ago was in at
£174,783 ; last term £269,664.
In its latest report, Michael
Nairn says: “Plant and build-
ings have been well main-
tained, and the programme of
additions agreed in 1956
almost completed.” Whatever
the additions were in fact, they
don’t show conspicuously
financially.
The £250,000 of new capital
being raised will help most on
the trading side, where
working-capital has always
been very large in relation to
fixed assets.
Stocks at £1,079,464 are
down £132,664, but are still
the major item, followed by
debtors at £663,935 (up
£98,054). In 1954 stocks were
as high as £1,521,070.
For the term to September
30 last the Nairn board
reported a better trading year,
though not without its prob-
lems ; sales increased, and
profits were up 24.8 p.c. But
it was still considered prudent
to “conserve the company’s
finances in order to meet
increased competition and
costs and to take care of any
expansion deemed necessary.”
It paid an 8 p.c. div., and
Linoleum Holdings handed its
shareholders p.c.
To take-up its quota of the
present £250,000 issue being
made by Nairn’s, Lino. Hold-
ings is offering its own share-
holders 53,333 £1 ords., one-
for-two, and this will raise
paid capital to £159,999, all
in ords.
The holding in Nairn’s will
rise from 106,666 £1 ords. to
159,999 ords. ,
Seeing that the Lino, co.’s
holding in Nairn’s is share-for-
share with its own capital, it
is easy to relate earnings and
asset backing one with the
other.
Visible net tangible backing
for shares in each co. at Sep-
tember 30 last was approxi-
mately 525. There is every
indication that this figure is
conservative.
Allowing for the new issue,
this will drop to 41s. 5d., sub-
ject to profit-accumulations
over the past five months.
A tight Nairn rein has been
kept on dividends in the past,
even when times have been
affluent. Now that the expan-
sion programme has finished
and additional capital is being
raised, there are grounds for
hoping that a more liberal
policy will be followed in the
future.
The “rights” to Lino. Hold-
ings’ new issue at 6s. (265.
fully paid) are highly interest-
ing. Import-restrictions, if
they occur, will be of assist-
ance to profit-earning.
U.S. Financier
IpLOYD G. Blair, who
hopped-off from Australia
for New Zealand and home at
the week-end, is one of the
most important Americans to
visit the Commonwealth, par-
ticularly at present when
investment capital is so


THE WOOL-FUTURES MARKET
[This is Part C of the wool-marketing report by
G. d’A. Chislett to the Australian Woolgrowers*
Council on February 23, 1959.]
The Wool-futures Market
An essential first step in deal-
ing with the subject of
“futures” is to distinguish
them from “forward selling.”
They are quite distinct and
independent. One, futures con-
tracts, is an insurance opera-
tion, and the other, forward
contracting, is the sale of a
A. C. BUCKLE & CO.
(Member of the Sydney Stock Exchange}
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER
105 pitt street, SYDNEY.
Telegraphic and Cable Address:
Phone: BL 2421-2
“BCCKLEX,” Sydney.
Will
Your Business
“die” with you?
What assurance have you that the business you
have built throughout a lifetime will continue to
function without dislocation and to the advantage
of your beneficiaries after your death?
Your appointment of Union Trustee as Executor,
Trustee, Manager or Attorney would ensure sound
administration of your affairs—impartially and
permanently—at moderate cost, and safeguard the
future of your Estate.
Write or ’phone for an appointment to discuss our
service, and obtain a copy of the explanatory
booklet, “Important Facts Concerning Wills,
Executors, Trustees.”
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
The only Trustee company having offices
each with its own Board of Directors and
Management in three States —New South
Wales, Victoria and Queensland.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
And at Newcastle, Albury, Townsville, Too-
woomba, Rockhampton and Charleville.
UT25d
urgently needed for develop-
ment.
From 1931 to 1955 he was
vice-president of the National
City Bank of New York, and
since then he has been one
of the brains-trust which runs
the Harriman investment-
banking business in the U.S.
He is president of the Ameri-
can-Australian Association in
New York, and has met almost
every Australian of tonnage
who has visited the city in
recent years.
All this —his associations, his
interests and his keen aware-
ness of what is happening in
Australia—explains why he
was so warmly received in
Canberra and the capitals
which he visited. In each, and
sometimes in public luncheons,
he urged that consideration
should be given to permitting
the States, municipalities and
utilities- to make direct
approaches to the New York
loan market.
.(At present the Loan Coun-
cil is the sole overseas borrow-
ing authority for public funds
in Australia, so his suggestion
was warmly received by the
States, the municipalities and
the utilities.)
He spent two days in Mel-
bourne with Premier Bolte,
who impressed him, and was
otherwise looked after by two
old friends, lan Potter, the
sharebroker, and W. S. Robin-
son, the Australian metals
wizard.
P. and O. Setback
■COR the year ended Sep-
tember 30 last year the
P. and O. group of shipping
cos. showed a drop of 36 p.c
in their earnings—from £10.4
million sterling to £6.4 million.
Earning-rate fell from 6.5 p.c.
on funds to 4.1 p.c. A sharp
reduction in cargo carried was
responsible. Passenger-traffic
actually picked-up after the
Suez scare was over, and earn-
ings on the Australian run
consequently seem to have
held-up better than elsewhere —
the Orient Line showed a
recovery in profit, as did the
N.Z. Shipping Co.
As the Australian National
Line has found out, conditions
have changed drastically in
the overseas shipping business.
Shipping—and shipbuilding—
are in the doldrums. P. and 0.,
with six months of the current
year behind it, expects figures
to be down further when the
September 30, 1959, results go
up.
The group operates 357
ships, and one of the problems
is to plough-back enough profit
to maintain the fleet and make
replacements where necessary.
The U.K. Government is giving
the shipping industry some
taxation assistance in this re-
spect, especially in view of sub-
sidised foreign competition and
Liberian and Panamanian
registrations of competing lines.
International Partnership
\*/hen the Victorian Premier
* * turned the first sod of the
joint Ampol-Goodrich enter-
prise, the new motor tyre-
factory at Somerton, near Mel-
bourne, the speeches hinted at
some questioning of wholly-
owned overseas companies
operating in Australia.
The irrepressible W. G.
Walkley, Ampol managing-
director, said bluntly the
pattern whereby American and
Australian capital had been
joined together to establish the
partnership was one that could
well be followed by other
financial interests entering the
Australian field ; Bolte more
discreetly observed that unlike
other instances, the new show
ensured the distribution of
profits within the Common-
wealth, making it more pros-
perous.
commodity for delivery at a
future specified time and price.
Although a futures contract
provides for delivery of a
standard top, in the case of
wool futures this is merely a
device to make the contract
legal, and it is not the intention
of the market that physical
delivery should take place. If
many deliveries do take place,
it is an indication that futures
prices are out of their proper
relation to commodity-market
prices. (On the average,
approximately 2 p.c. of the
contracts on the London Wool
Futures Market are allowed to
go to maturity.)
A futures market is the
medium for bringing together
those people in a trade--pro-
ducers, merchants and pro-
cessors —who wish to protect
themselves against falls or
rises in the value of the com-
modity in which they are
trading. The essence of
futures-trading is the inter-
change of price-risks between
one trader and another, whose
businesses are different and
/


Public Notice
IN THE COMMONWEALTH CONCILI-
ATION AND ARBITRATION COMMIS-
SION THE PASTORAL INDUSTRY
AWARD (1956)—FEDERAL TO ALL
PERSONS AND ORGANISATIONS
BOUND BY THE ABOVEMENTIONED
AWARD.
TAKE NOTICE that an Application
dated the 3rd day of March 1959 has
been filed in the said Commission by
various Organisations of Employers and
will be heard before the Commonwealth
Conciliation and Arbitration Commission
at 451 Law Courts Place Melbourne on
Tuesday the 17th day of March 1959
at 10.30 a.m. The Application seeks to
alter the rates of pay prescribed there-
under by (a) reducing the basic wage
prescribed in Clause 74 of the said
Award by 25/- to £ll/16/0 per week
for employees other than Station Hands
and to £ll/15/0 per week for Station
Hands (b) making such consequential
or further alterations as the Commission
thinks fit.
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that on the
said 17th day of March the Commis-
sion will be asked on behalf of the
Applicants to join the hearing of the
abovementioned application with the
other applications for variation of the
Basic Wage provisions of the Metal
Trades Award at present being heard
by the Commission and that the above-
mentioned application be decided upon
the evidence material and submissions
presented in the Metal Trades case from
the commencement of that case.
The Commission has dispensed with per-
sonal service of the Application on indi-
vidual employers and has authorised this
advertisement in substitution for such
service.
Any person bound by the Award or
group of such persons may appear on
the date mentioned and make such sub-
missions as may be desired.
Copies of the said Application for
Variation may be inspected at the
Principal Registry or any District
Registry of the said Commission between
the hours of 9.30 a.m. and 4.30 p.m.
on Mondays to Fridays inclusive. —E. S.
COLE, 56 Young Street, Sydney, For
and on behalf of the Applicants.
The
NORTHERN LIFE
Assurance Company of Australia Limited
( Incorporated, in Canberra, Australia )
All Classes of Ordinary Life Assurance,
Superannuation and Annuity Policies Issued
HEAD OFFICE: 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone BL 5601 K. J. Hedley, General Manager
who require to cover them-
selves against opposing risks.
The person with stocks (in-
cluding the producer) will fear
a fall and he will sell futures ;
those who have to buy raw
materials will fear a rise in
price and will buy futures.
When he sells or buys the
actual stock, the trader closes
his futures contract by making
the opposite transaction on the
futures market.
These counterbalancing
operations (known as “hedges”),
when of sufficient magnitude,
take much of the risk out of
marketing and processing a
raw material.
Use of Futures
As with all insurance, the
insured cannot expect to
“profit” on every transaction ;
but the futures market does
provide a medium which allows
the grower to elect for a certain
income without having to wait
for his clip to be sold.
Very few futures hedges are
actually taken by Australian
woolgrowers because the
market is not suited to their
needs, and there are vey few
brokers able to give skilled
advice on futures operations. •
The New York Wool Ex-
change, which is conducted by
the Wool Associates of the
New York Cotton Exchange,
introduced a greasy wool
contract in 1941. This is more
appropriate for growers’ needs.
The establishment of the
London Wool Futures Market
in 1953 was in the face of
apathy and even opposition
from Bradford, which tradi-
tionally has tried to cope with
the same problem of fluctuat-
ing prices by forward-contract-
ing. Some of the criticism was
based on lack of understanding
of the functioning of a futures
market. It was feared by cer-
tain sections that the futures
market would encroach on
their commercial operations.
Within five years, the
London Futures Market ex-
ceeded the other three wool-
futures markets in terms of
turnover. It is now almost
equal to Bradford’s output of
merino tops, but this does not
mean that all topmakers use
the market, since transactions
from all other sections are
measured in terms of tops.
Some topmakers prefer to sell
their output for future delivery
and then cover themselves by
buying only sufficient wool to
make the required tops, i.e.,
they prefer to rely on forward-
contracting alone.
The relationship of futures-
trading to wool-production is
still small compared with the
situation of cotton. For the
cotton crop year 1957-58, the
value of the D.S. crop was
estimated at $1854 million,
and the value of futures
trading $3600 million, almost
precisely double the value of
the crop.
Employment of wool futures
by Australian wool-processors
is fairly limited.
Criticism of Futures Markets
Futures-trading, being the
most sophisticated of all com-
mercial transactions, has
always been a target for special
criticism, particularly by those
not versed in the theory and
practice of futures “hedging.”
There have been examples of
this type of criticism in the
Australian press during the
latest twelve months. The
allegations defy analysis be-
cause they are incoherent. They
appear to confuse futures-
trading with forward-selling
and to disregard or be ignorant
of the actual state of the wool-
futures market.
In so far as they are at all
intelligible, they allege that
wool futures have been used
to depress wool prices in the
primary auction markets. The
allegations could be meant to
imply that wool-merchants
(including topmakers) who
have sold forward then use the
futures market to depress
primary auction prices, in
order to enable them to buy
sufficiently cheaply to be able
to make a profit on their
forward sale.
Such a theory might reason-
ably be dismissed on the
grounds that the magnitude of
all operations on the futures
market at any time is so
relatively small compared with
the operations of the primary
(spot) markets as to be incap-
able of determining the level of
spot prices.
The complete answer to
such allegations is that an
examination of the relation-
ship between spot auction-
prices and spot futures-prices
shows that futures-prices
respond to changes in auction-
prices, not vice versa, and that
for the latest twelve months,
distant futures-prices (i.e.,
contracts maturing about six
months ahead) have been
equal to, or at a premium
above, spot prices. In other
words, those who have been
operating on the futures
market have, for almost
twelve months, been expecting
a rise in wool prices.
During the preceding twelve
months, distant futures, by
going to a premium above
spot prices, have implied that
wool’s price should rise— i.e.,
they were taking a favorable
view of the market. Anyone in
the trade who cared to use
futures could have bought
stock with confidence, as he
could have obtained a satisfac-
tory hedge on the futures
market.
As spot wool prices rise,
distant and spot futures prices
will approach each other, and
should wool prices continue
rising, distant futures will at
some stage move into discount,
as an indication that wool’s
price is regarded as too high
and that it is expected to fall
at a future date. This was the
position at the beginning of the
1957-58 season, and it remained
so until late in November,
1958, following which there
was a period of fluctuation
above and below spot prices ;
then distant and spot prices
became practically at par, until
April, 1958, when distant
futures moved into a premium
position, where they have
remained ever since.
This movement of the
distant futures-prices in rela-
tion to spot prices represents
the stabilising function which
futures-markets contribute to
trade in raw materials.
Naturally the bigger the scale
of their operations, the more
traders who offset their oppos-
ing risks against each other,
the more effectively will it
perform its function.
The United States cotton-
futures market has so reduced
the risk of handling the cotton
crop that many merchants are
able to operate on a profit-
margin as low as one-half of
one per cent.
The Role of Wool Futures
If it be accepted that it is
impossible to stabilise prices
determined by auction without
introducing controls
that any pretence of auction
ceases to exist, then the fuller
development of the wool-
futures market offers the only
alternative to the complete
abandonment of the auction
system, if the quest for protec-
tion from instability is to be
pursued.
Australia is the world’s major
wool-producer, accounting for
more than half the annual clip
of merino (apparel) wool. Pro-
viding a sufficient magnitude
of operations could be attained,
it would seem to be a logical
development that we should
have a local wool-futures
market, with a greasy contract
for use by woolgrowers, who
would then have a ready choice
between the auction and
futures-markets.
It may be possible to devise
a mechanism for stabilising the
market through the agency of
an organisation which would
buy and sell futures at appro-
priate times, in the same way
as central banks conduct
“open - market” operations
(buying and selling bonds) to
support or dampen-down
securities interest-rates.
Such a market would not in
any way impinge upon the
existing auction selling system.




SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Artbursts
Currier and Ives
Currier and Ives were two
energetic and mildly artistic
Americans who, a hundred
years ago, used to dash out into
the street whenever there was
a really good fire, accident,
shipwreck or battle with the
Indians (sometimes, it appears,
they must have used their
imaginations), draw the scene,
lithograph it and, within four
days, race the lithograph out
onto the streets again, where
it sold like hot lithographs.
, They were the equivalent of
the modern news-photographer,
and, even if their wares were
hardly art, they have this much
significance and warning for
the artist: that they dealt with
life, they became history, and
so were in time eagerly sought
by collectors and connoisseurs.
The 54 of their grand total
of 4000-odd prints (loaned by
the U.S. Information Service
from the Library of Congress)
on display at the N. S. Wales
Gallery have seldom the artistic
quality of our familiar Gills
and Skinner Prouts, nor of the
cherished English coaching-
prints ; but they come toler-
ably close to them in a few
things like the snow-bound
train and “Californian
Scenery”; and the rest, even
the green ice-cream “Niagara
Falls” and the fearful “Prairie
Fire,” are always curious and
amusing.
He would be hard of heart
indeed who could not respond
to the lurid and sentimental
charm of “The Death of
Minehaha”; to the immense
and colorful assortment of
birds and hares so precisely
labelled “American Dead
Game”; to General Tom
Thumb, 28in. high, standing
in infinitesimal majesty on a
red-velvet chair; to the curves
of “The Star of the North,”
who, alluringly depicted in
bed, must have been a sort
of Marilyn Monroe of the
period ; to the alarming “Life
of a Fireman”; to the touching
view of “The Young House-
keepers—the Day After Mar-
riage” (the event does not seem
to have ruffled in the slightest
their lollipop tranquillity); to
the frozen steamboats, the
galloping Injun-fights, the very
pleasant buffalo-hunt, and to
the notable view of “The Cele-
brated Four-in-Hand Stallion
Team,” where the four stately
black stallions haul gently
through eternity their four
bearded and equally stately
coach-passengers.
♦> ❖ ♦>
“Life” Photographers
Thanks to American “Life”
magazine photographers, girls
have invaded Farmer’s Blax-
land Gallery, Sydney. Girls
from India ; a windswept girl
from France ; a girl lounging
in front of the Coliseum ruins ;
girls from Spain, Italy (sultry),
Japan, Hong Kong . . . and a
splendid large study of two
wide-eyed American lasses;
all in color.
Not that the “Life” boys are
advertising one product. They
turn their color-cameras effec-
tively on less mobile subjects—
Ralph Crane has “The River
Rhine,” with a rising (or
setting) sun turning the water
into liquid copper; he also
has a different view of the
Rhine, this time in dark-red
tones with a spidery firework
bursting overhead; Alfred
Eisenstaedt’s picture of Vir-
ginia farmlands looks rather
like a huge pink-and-grey
patchwork quilt; Howard
Sochurek’s “Salmon Fishing,
Canada,” shows two men in a
canoe and a very misty mist;
Eliot Elisofan has a Cinema-
Scopic shot of Windsor Castle.
There are jets and jet-pilots,
statuary, interiors of Japanese
houses ...
But not all the photos are
colored. The black-and-white
section is large in both number
and range. You can take your
pick of many subjects—
Leonard McCombe’s grizzled
Texas cowboy, for instance, or
Robert Capa’s Spanish loyalist
being shot-down. Marilyn
Monroe is there, in typical
pose; Pier Angeli looks even
more pixyish than usual, and
there are American teenagers,
baseballers, underwater
swimmers and, while on
watery subjects, Ralph Morse’s
action-shot of the Nautilus
submarine beginning a dive.
♦> ♦> ♦>
“Family of Man”
Some 500 of the world’s best
photographs depicting the
“Family of Man” are on view
at Preston Motors’ showrooms,
Melbourne. The photos were
selected from 2,000,000 sub-
mitted to the Museum of
Modern Art, New York, and
even if some of them aren’t
the best, they must certainly
be the largest ever printed.
The theme-song of the exhi-
bition is a poem by Carl
Sandburg:—
There is only one man in the world
and his name is All Men. .
There is only one woman in the world
and her name is All Women.
There is only one child in the world
and the child’s name is All Children.
So we have a procession
of men and women making
love, getting married, having
babies, planting the earth
with crops or rending it
with bulldozers in order to
support themselves, and
generally carrying on the
struggle for material existence
in much the same way in
Allahabad and Tierra del
Fuego as in Moscow and New
Guinea, quarrelling and fight-
ing and succoring one another,
all in the supposedly best
interests of King Baby.
A striking item is a huge
picture of an Australian house-
hold —Mum, Dad, Dave, etc.
—straight out of Steele Rudd.
Another is a huge photo of a
city intersection massed with
cars, and people frenziedly
tramping over one another to
get back to the suburbia they
have only recently escaped
from.
The only suggestions of a
spiritual incentive are photos
of the auditorium of La Scala
and of a symphony concert;
and the only hint of a higher
power presiding over the
destinies of all the mums, dads
and babies is an enormous
photo of a meeting of the
United Nations.
Stage and Music
“The Seven Year Itch”
When a playwright with an
idea suitable for a one-acter
spins it out into a three-acter
he puts a great strain on the
resources of producer and
players ; yet Canberra Reper-
tory’s performance of George
Axelrod’s “Seven Year Itch”
almost stood the strain.
Joyce Goodes’s production
bounced along at a pace suit-
able to trivial comedy. The
play was well mounted, the set
suggestively furnished, and the
women even more so. Eric
Reiman also had a difficult
task—to titillate and hold the
interest of the audience in a
problem which the author ex-
plores neither profoundly nor
with great wit. He did so by
controlled exaggeration, big
toothpaste grins, Napoleon
angers, and a use of the hands
which suggested that he has
depths as an actor.
Elizabeth Pringle, as the girl,
legged and bozzed fetchingly—
as, indeed, did the other
women, with Joan Reseigh
creating quite a picture as the
atomic-age girl, and Frances
Rose as the blousy vulgarian
who hunts in different pastures.
M.C.
♦♦♦ ❖
Dance Duo
The sombre background of
the Sydney Conservatorium
curtains, and the support of a
lonely, only piano were not
enough to carry duo-dancers
Lisa Czobel and Alexander von
Swaine on to a sucessfully
stimulating evening of enter-
tainment.
Their dancing is of the inter-
pretative kind and needs more
fire and intensity of spirit than
they seemed able to give it.
Still, Alexander von Swaine
showed a fine turn of humor
as a Mozart exquisite and in a
Galop by Stravinsky, while
Lisa Czobel wore the imagi-
natively designed costumes with
charm and style.
Talkies
“Mardi Gras”
Spun out of fairy-floss, the
story of this musical is just
about strong enough to hold
half-a-dozen catchy tunes and
some agreeable humor.
A glamorous French film-
star, attended by all the guff
her studio’s publicity-hound
can mint, goes to the Mardi
Gras at New Orleans. The
cadets of the Virginia Military
Institute hold a raffle, the
winner getting a roll of green-
backs and the job of persuad-
ing the star to come to their
graduation-ball. You know
before the numbers go up that
Pat Boone has to be the winner.
That veteran plot-wajrrior
Mistaken Identity is enlisted
to back-up the usual misunder-
standings, but who doubts that


For a truly smart home . . . and
a lower building estimate ... use
the world’s strongest
roofing material
A:
1
4m*
/Vs***
*
Si Y JjJ ACS HT
Galvanized
CTPPI
. f : ;w S mm • ••.
SHEET
wr mm mm K B
\ !
Your new house can be the showplace of the street
and yet be the lowest-cost home in the street!
A Lysaght roof makes all the difference, lending itself
readily to the most advanced modern designs, yet giving
you worth-while savings compared with competitive
materials.
Completely fire-proof . . . absolutely unbreakable
because Lysaght Red Orb is made especially hard for
roofing purposes. So easy to care for that you can
virtually forget about maintenance problems.
Decide now to investigate the facts and figures on the
beautiful, practical, economical Lysaght roofl
• Galvanized
Corrugated
Steel Sheet.
• Prepainted
Galvanized
Corrugated
Steel Sheet.
• Flat Galvanized
Steel Sheet.
Free — low cost
home plans booklet!
Send today for this helpful new series
of practical, low-cost home plans,
especially designed to suit Australian
conditions.
01650
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.,
Port Line Building, 50 Young Street, Sydney N.S.W.
Please send /ne, free and post free, your new set of low cost home
plans.
NAME
ADDRESS .* -
STATE...


GENERAL MOTORS
Acceptance Corporation, Australia
{lncorporated in U.S.A. Limited Liability )
REGISTERED UNSECURED
LOAN STOCK
With principal and interest unconditionally guaranteed
by General Motors Acceptance Corporation, New York
6*
7 %
,%
per annum
per annum .
. . . . 3 YEARS
.6 and 10 YEARS
£lOO or any multiple thereof may be invested in any or all of the currencies—
-3 years, 6 years, 10 years. GMAC, Australia has the right to repay earlier.
Conditions of repayment, including premiums, are set out in the prospectus.
Registers of holders of the Loan Stock will be kept in Melbourne , Sydney,
Adelaide and Perth.
We report that, in our opinion, as at December 31, 1958 Total paid up
Capital and earned surplus of General Motors Acceptance Corporation,
Australia was 3,356,258 dollars and total tangible assets were 47,120,747
dollars. Furthermore, in our opinion, as at December 31, 1958 total Notes,
Loans and Debentures payable by General Motors Acceptance Corporation,
New York amounted to 3,221,688,114 dollars. Its other liabilities amounted
to 364,439,909 dollars and its total tangible assets were 3,881,283,432 dollars.
Melbourne, February 9, 1959. Signed Haskins & Sells, Auditors.
HOW TO APPLY
Applications for Loan Stock can be accepted only on the printedform attached to
the prospectus. Copies of full prospectus with application form obtainable from:
BRANCHES OF COMMONWEALTH TRADING BANK OF AUSTRALIA
MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGES
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION, AUSTRALIA
Underwritten by the
ANGLO AUSTRALIAN CORPORATION Pty. Ltd.,
Melbourne, Sydney,
Brokers to the Issue
lAN POTTER & CO.
Melbourne, Sydney, Canberra.
8240
Missing Friend
WOULD anyone knowing the where-
abouts of STANLEY WALLACE REID
of Woodenbong please communicate
urgently with the undersigned. His
description is: Age 56, height sft. 9in.,
thin to medium build, fair sunburnt
complexion, blue eyes. He was last
seen at Ballina on 23rd February, 1959.
—SOMERVILLE LAUNDRY LOMAX &
NEWTON, Solicitors, Lismore, N.S.W.
the star will arrive at the
dance-floor on time?
Christine Carere’s beauty
and sparkling-eyed vivacity do
much for the film ; Pat Boone’s
pop-singing is pleasant enough;
and Fred Clarke extracts a
heap of humor from the
troubles of the publicity man.
At Sydney Regent.
+*♦ ♦♦♦ *s*
“Escapade in Japan”
The airliner in which a
seven-year-old American boy
is flying to join his diplomat
parents in Tokyo is forced to
“ditch” off the Japanese coast.
Sole surivivor, the boy is
picked-up by a Jap fisherman
and immediately becomes
buddies with the fisherman’s
son. When the boys hear the
fisherman getting in touch with
the police they do a bolt, fear-
ing the rescued boy might be
in trouble. This starts a good-
humored hunt for them which
takes cops and parents through
Tokyo, Kyoto and so on.
While the kids hold the
stage, as they mostly do, the
film has charm enhanced by
attractive color - photography
of rural and urban Japan. But
the script drags-in a second
story about an imminent
estrangement of the parents,
which allows a little-child-shall-
reunite-them ending.
Cameron Mitchell and
Teresa Wright pay only casual
homage to their roles as the
parents ; Jon Provost and
Roger Nakagawa demonstrate
without effort the universality
of small boys and their talent
for getting into mischief.
At King’s Cross (Sydney)
Metro.
“Dollar Daddy”
This, at the Australia, is the
first Hungarian film to reach
the screen in Melbourne.
The story is set in the period
when migration to the New
World was the only escape
from poverty in most European
countries. A struggling univer-
sity professor and his family
are staving-off their creditors on
grounds of their expectations of
an incredibly rich old uncle in
Chicago. A flashback shows
uncle carrying a billboard and
looking hungrily at the diners
in a cafe and dreaming nostal-
gically of the ease and comfort
he would enjoy if he could only
get back to his native village.
He succeeds in getting there
without a penny—to the con-
sternation of the professor’s
family but a smart young
lawyer uses the dear old
gent to manoeuvre a gigantic
swindle which takes-in every-
body, including the Emperor,
Franz Josef. The kindly but
biting satire on Hungarian
social conventions might have
come from a Dickens.
“A Question of Adultery”
Whether a sterile husband
could get a divorce on the
grounds of adultery because his
wife conceived by artificial
insemination —even though he
grudgingly consented to it —
is the burden of this film. For
artificiality, however, the plot
easily surpasses the insemina-
tion. The dialogue is puerile ;
only a sketchy attempt is made
to give plausibility to the
dramatic situations; and the
script-writers, unable or un-
willing to resolve the problem
one way or the other, resort to
a cheap and badly-contrived
denouement to induce a happy
ending.
At Sydney Victory.
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Matchmaker”
All the pungent wit and fun
of Thornton Wilder’s play
come vividly to life in this
screen-version -by Paramount.
The director has set a crack-
ing pace, and his polished
cast responds well.
. Paul Ford plays the miserly
Yonkers merchant Vander-
gelder, whose romantic resur-
gence at 60, when he shoots
through to New York to choose
a second wife, sets the comedy
in train.
Shirley Booth brings her
mature art to the role of the
widow, Mrs. Levi, a masterly
tactitian who plays a real rival
against an imaginary one to
finish, as she had always
intended, in the arms, and
wallet, of the fatuous Vander-
gelder.
The best-timed piece of
comedy is created by
Anthony Perkins, as the gauche
chief clerk. His gradual
evolution to the confident
fellow who pinches his boss’s
girl and then, with the help
of the shrewd Mrs. Levi,
tricks his way into member-
ship of the firm is handled
with rare subtlety.
At Sydney Prince Edward.


That | Perplexing Problem!
EPK?
95
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
The Trustees Executors & Agency
COMPANY LTD.
TRW. 34
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
—how will my Estate he administered?
By appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd. Executor of
your Will, you obtain the benefit of an impartial Executor with over
three-quarters of a century’s specialised experience in the Administration
of Estates, and the assurance that the interests of your legatees will be
safeguarded until the Trusts are completed.
No individual Executor can offer such permanence, security or experience.
Write or call for free booklet setting out the following —
★ Advantages of appointing the Company either alone or jointly with
some trusted relative or friend.
A Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
★ Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, 1976,220.
A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.G., D. 5.0., M.C., V.D. (Chairman); W. Sydney Jones;
J. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R. Syme; .R. H. Norman, D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.; W. E. M.
Campbell; T. L. Webb.
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman); Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E.,
C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomar B. Heffer; W. Sydney Jones; Alan G. Potter; Rear
Admiral H. J. Buchanan, C.8.E., D.S.O.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
A.E.1., Ltd.
"W HILE rst SIX mont^s
year produced satisfactory trading
results, the second six months was a dis-
appointing period.”
Chairman Sir Jack Stevens’ earlier
forecast of a “reasonable trading profit”
for 1958 thus proved rather approximate,
as did his statement that the 2} p.c.
interim was “not to be regarded as any
indication of the final distribution.”
In neither case, on performances since
the public was granted a share in pro-
ceedings in 1955, or on information pro-
vided by the prospectus of that year, is
there anything to suggest that the 20s.
scrip was worth the 325. the shares com-
manded in 1957. Size and rich relations
alone don’t make a money - spinner,
and, even though the scrip is today
fetching a mere 225. 3d., a 4.5
p.c. yield now from a 5 p.c. divi-
dend, together with an earnings yield
which is very little higher, would be
intolerable from many industrials with
far more visible earning - muscle than
A.E.I. Perhaps an echo of a takeover
rumor, current a year or so ago but
almost certainly unfounded, is helping to
lend the stock support.
To be sure, A.E.I. has some big
brothers in the U.K., but their fortunes
don’t necessarily run parallel with those
of the Australian company or its public
shareholders, who control only a quarter
of the capital.
Originally, the company was known
as the Australian General Electric Pty.,
formed in 1931 when the U.S. General
Electric Co. and several U.K. electrical
appliance manufacturers went into
partnership.
In 1955, the U.S. associate sold its
50 p.c. interest to the present parent,
Associated Electrical Industries (U.K.),
which then formed the Australian sub-
sidiary of the same initials, with a
£4,000,000 share-capital in 20s. ords., of
which 1,050,000 were offered to the
public at 20s. 4d. each.
The biggest names among shareholders
in the English parent are: N Metropolitan-
Vickers Electrical Co., Ltd., British
Thompson-Houston Co., Ltd., and Edison
Swan Electric Co., Ltd.
Net profit was down by £67,794 to
£239,872. There could possibly have been
a slight measure of conservatism in
arriving at this figure, judging by the
£177,448 (£210,904 in 1957) provided for
taxation and the £178,576 (£166,264)
charged for depreciation on fixed assets,
which are shown en bloc in the con-
solidated accounts. This is by no means
certain, and in the same context it must
be mentioned that the year’s interest-bill
on borrowings from the parent was
lightened by an ex gratia remission of
£50,000 which benefited the group’s
earnings by £31,250 after allowing for
tax:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. f- —Dividend— serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1955* ..404,354 t 590,832
Add adjustment accrued income, £1662 592,494
Unexplained addition, £940 .. . . 593,434
1950 ft. .307,232 7i p.c. = 300,000 67,232 660,606
To prov. long-service leave, £20,750 639,910
Design costs charged against reserves,
£40,577 .. 599,339
1957 ..307,666 7i p.c. = 300,000 7,606 607,005
To redesign, etc., £41,979 . . . . 565,026
To provn. long-service leave, £140.683 424.343
1958 ..239,872 5 p.c. = 200,000 39,872 464,215
* 13 months for operating co.
f Div. of £196,875 paid by operating co. before
formation of parent co.
ft 13 months for subsidiaries of operating co.
The above table shows that the earning-
rate has been, on average, little higher
than the dividend-rate itself, and that,
in consequence, reserve-building has
been anything but brisk.
Also shown interlined is a reduction
of £182,662 in reserves, £140,683 due to
a heavy and rather belated provision for
long-service leave, and £41,979 to cover
the costs of what is vaguely referred to
as “difficulties in the manufacture of
certain products” and redesign work.
This latter item may be connected with
certain repercussions, highlighted in the
press and State Parliament, following the
delivery to the N.S.W. Railways (via a
well - known manufacturer of traction
locomotives) of electric-motors which
subsequently needed modification. All
difficulties have since been ironed-out,
but it is uncertain, from the annual re-
ports, whether the 1957-58 year bore the
whole of the cost of modifications.
A.E.I. keeps its borrowing within the
family. Fellow subsidiaries put up a
further £599,640 (net) during the year
and £236,133 was sent back to the parent.
With an unsecured loan of £50,000 and
mortgage repayments, net borrowings
for the year totalled £398,507, which was
outlaid substantially on fixed-assets, up
£338,735 after deducting depreciation.
Working-capital and liquids look to be
in abundant supply, and possibly, after
a period of expansion, the company may
be able to show investors something a
little better for their money.
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
7 956. 1957. 1958.
Paid capital. . £4,000,000 £4,000,000 £4,000,000
Reserves .. 660,666 607,005 464,215
Minority interest 83,268 93.366 97,884
Mortgage .. 750,000 735,000 720,000
Unsecured loan . . - 50,000
Owing to associ-
ated cos. .. 1,642,133 3,058,508 3,502,207
Overdraft .. 187,123
Creditors ‘. . 1,286,711 893,800 1,033,737
Sundry provisions 66,781 83,407 218,637
Tax provision . . 302,206 209.109 179,475
Final div. .. 150,006 150,000 100,000
£9,128,888 £9,830,315 £10,360,155
Fixed assets .. 1,865,562 2,422,080 2,701,421
Owing by associ-
ated cos .. 800,227 104,981 24,789
Stock . . . . 3,747,931 4,049.627 4,496,035
Debtors,' etc. .. 2,052,082 2,410,128 2,688,020
Cash . . .. 3,086 242.893 395,890
£9,128,888 £9,830,315 £10,306,155
At October 31 last, net tangibles had
fallen slightly, and amounted to 225. 4d.
for each 20s. of share-capital.
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd.
'T'hose shareholders in Henry Jones
■*- Co-op., Ltd., who still hope that last
term’s one-for-six par issue will soon be
followed by the “more generous distri-
bution,” hinted-at back in 1956, are
offered little encouragement in the latest
annual report.
Although a smaller tax-provision left


Telegraphic and Cable address: “Brownhllls.”
Telephone: BYV 1465 (3 lines).
A. H. BROWNHILL & CO.
(A. H. Brownhill, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
27 O’Connell Street - -- -- -- -- - Sydney
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: Bff 17U—BW #OBB
net profit ahead of the figure claimed
in the preceding term, there was a fur-
ther slip in the earning-rate on share-
capital (23.1 p.c., as against 25.2, 31.2,
29.9 and 35.3 p.c. back to 1954), while
the official forecast for the current term
is for “more-competitive trading and
lower (selling) prices.”
This, of course, doesn’t mean that the
big. co. is in for a particularly lean year,
but a board that baulked at the idea of
distributing more than a third of the
near-record profit won in 1956, on the
grounds of rising-costs, increased taxa-
tion and the “current financial
stringency,” would, it seems, be unlikely
to regard any trimming of profit-margins
as a suitable background to a lift in the
div.-rate.
Henry Jones has never failed to pay
a div. since its formation in 1909 (the
business dates back to 1861), and last
term’s 10 p.c. payout was the nineteenth
successive distribution on this scale. A
wide dividend-cover backed-up by mas-
sive reserves affords shareholders a high
degree of security for both capital and
income and, as might be expected in these
circumstances, the sharemarket is pre-
pared to pay well for the scrip and wait
for future benefits, pricing the f.-p. £1
ords. at ss. 9d., to return £3 17s. 4d. p.c.
from a 10 p.c. div. There was a
conservatively-valued 665. Bd. in net
tangibles, at October 31 last, for each £1
share.
Through its numerous subsidiaries
Henry Jones controls over 20 large jam-
and fruit-canning factories of which four
are in New Zealand, five in South Africa
and the remainder in Australia. A
number of can-making and other
auxiliary plants turn-out various group-
requirements, as well as supplying outside
customers, the group as a whole reckon-
ing its annual turnover at somewhere in
the vicinity of £15,000,000. The Tas-
manian offshoot is the largest exporter
of fresh fruit in Australia, and, in addi-
tion to its canning-business, owns ships,
timber-mills, box-factories and orchards,
is active as a shipping- and insurance-
agent, and is the sole distributor for
Australasian Commonwealth Carbide
Co., Ltd., the only large-scale manufac-
turer of carbide in Australasia.
Last term’s one-for-six offering raised
the parent co.’s all-ord. capital to
£2,485,000 and was preceded by par issues
in 1950 (one-for-five) and 1953 (one-for-
six).
Strong competition in well-supplied
export markets and increases, particu-
larly in the Australian side of the busi-
ness, in the cost of labor, freight, sugar,
etc., have weakened profit-margins over
the past three or four years, and,
although overall output and turnover,
last term, compared “favorably” with the
corresponding figures for the previous
term, earnings within Australia fell for
the third year in succession:
Profit— 1956. 1957. 1958.
Australian ..£331,630 £283,177 £270,644
Ex-Australian .. 328,839 250,361 280,848
Total ..£660,469 £533,538 £551,492
As claimed, group trading-results
seem to have been on a par with those
of the preceding term, an extra £42,995
for depreciation (£247,207) and a £10,898
slip in investment income practically
covering the £54,270 drop in pre-tax
earnings (£952,087).
However, after crediting outside
interests with £8036 (down £11,273) and
making a considerably smaller provision
for taxation (down £60,951 at £392,559),
consolidated net profit advanced by
£17,954 to £551,492, various subsidiary
losses totalling £28,089 (up £26,816):
Henry Jones and Subsidiaries.
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
Unexplained additions, £14,495 ..8,117,244
1953.. 549,430 10 p.c. = 203,625 345,805 3,463,049
Unexplained reduction, £6385 ..3,456,664
Add contingencies reserve, £169,200 3,625,864
1954.. 746,860 10 p.c. = 211,500 535,360 4,161,224
Unexplained additions, £80,887 .. 4,242,111
1955.. 633,013 10 p.c. = 211,500 421,513 4,663,624
Profit sale assets, £2604 .. ..4,666,228
Capital-expenditure w/off, £537 ..4,665,691
Unexplained additions, £38,773 . . 4,704,464
1956.. 000,409 10 p.c. = 211,500 448,969 5,153,433
Profit sale assets, £1922 .. .. 5,155,355
Capital-expenditure \v/off, £2930 .. 5,152,425
Less added intangibles, £37 . . .. 5,152,388
Unexplained reduction (net), £7541.. 5,144,847
1957.. 533,538 10 p.c. = 211,500 322,038 5,466,885
Profit sale assets, £10,422 . . . . 5,477,307
Capital-expenditure w/off, £4793 .. 5,472,514
Unexplained additions, etc. (net)
£13,201 5.485,715
1958.. 551,492 10 p.c. = 239,250 312,242 5,797,957
* After deducting intangibles (now £50,935).
The usual 10 p.c. on the higher
share-capital called for an extra
£27,750, but, as has been the case in 11
of the last 12 years, over half the dis-
closed profit was left in the business.
The consolidated balance-sheet presents
an impressive picture, with reserves close
to two-and-a-half times the size of paid
capital and outside liabilities and pro-
visions equal to only 6s. 6d. for every
£ of current assets:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1956. 1957. 1958.
Paid capital .. £2,115,000 £2.115,000 £2,485,000
Reserves . . . . 5,204,368 5,517,857 5,848,892
Outside interests 136,293 148,364 152,067
Creditors, etc... 1,069,743 1,137,297 1,152,208
Tax provision . . 1,032,179 797,831 716,153
Final div. . . 158,625 158,625 186,375
£9,716.208 £9,874,974 £10,540,695
Freeholds .. 1.777,117 1,911,884 2,057,435
Plant, etc. .. 1,360,298 1,516,120 1,620,237
Stocks . . .. 2,508.311 3,225,011 3,606.584
Debtors . . .. 2,320,231 2,256,251 2,325,740
Shares . . . . 451,549 457,986 441,805
Cash, etc. . . 1,101,587 436,573 357,301
Suspense account 146,180 20.177 80,658
Intangibles .. 50,935 50,972 50,935
£9,716,208 £9,874,974 £10,540,695
Less-buoyant trading conditions in the
jam-making and canning industries,
together with good crops of some varie-
ties of fruit, appear to have been partly
responsible for the big bdild-up of stocks
over the past two years, the stock-figure
(shown at a valuation below that accepted
by the taxation authorities) rising by
more than £1,000,000 since the end of
the 1956 term. JBy comparison, book-
debts have remained more-or-less stable
over the same period, while holdings of
cash, etc., have fallen by £744,286.
Although these movements have left
working-capital in a far less liquid form,
book-debts and cash, etc., at October 31
last were, together, £628,305 greater than
the sum of creditors and provisions for
tax, dividends, etc.
Consolidated Metal Products, Ltd.
TTaving coped fairly successfully with
the severe fall in lead prices over
the last couple of years, Consolidated
Metal Products, Ltd., last week reported
a continued improvement in earnings in
the first half of the current term, and
followed this up with the announcement
of simultaneous par and bonus issues.
For every nine shares held on the
20th of this month the co. will hand-
out two gift-shares and offer another one
share at par, the two issues raising the
all-ord. paid capital from £450,000 to
£600,000. The new scrip will miss out
on next month’s interim div. but partici-
pate fully in the final div., which, the
board expects, will be at the rate of
11 p.c., p.a., compared with the p.c.
distribution made in each of the last
three years. The lower div.-rate would
be equal to 13.4 p.c. on scrip held prior
to the bonus-issue.
Although profits sagged (along with
lead prices) in the 1957 term, Consoli-
dated Metal has developed in an attrac-
tive fashion since, formation, in 1950,
and the co. would need to do no more
than maintain earnings at last term’s
level to show a return of 19.3 p.c. on
the enlarged share-capital. There should
be little difficulty in holding the div.-
rate at at least 11 p.c.
In view of the boost given to liquidity
by the decline in lead-values and the
temporary deferment of building-projects
(now under way) which were to have
been financed out of existing “capital
resources,” there would appear, at first
glance, to be little reason for the £50,000
par issue. However, the board has been
putting surplus liquids into shares in
public cos. and short-term deposits, the
additional funds being needed, accord-
ing to chairman J. Broinowski, “in order
to consolidate the results of that policy
and, at the same time, to be ready to
advance suitable opportunities for diversi-
fying our activities still further.” While
the investment of idle funds in this
fashion is a sound practice, the board
must be on to something pretty good
if it can come anywhere near equalling
the tax-paid 25.7 p.c. earned on the co.’s
share-capital last term.
The largest buyer and processor of
scrap-lead in Australia, Consolidated


Missing Friend
WOULD EVELINE CLAIR, wife of
FRANK CLAIR and daughter of
WILLIAM CHARLES G R A II A M
BURDEN, late of Gundy, or any of her
children, or any person knowing the
present whereabouts of the said EVE-
LINE CLAIR or her children please
contact the undersigned and she or they
will learn something to her or their
advantage.—McLEl.l.AN, O’RYAN &
CO., Solicitors, 140 Kelly Street,
Scone.
Telegraphic & Cable Address
“Rosdale” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
R. H. AI.I.KN
I’. K. LEVY
M. K. li. DOWLING
A. F. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911.
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900."
Last Opportunity
To Invest This
Financial Year
in the
GOVE R N M ENT - G U A RA N TEE D
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
5V4% LOAN
For
5, 10 or 20 YEARS!
This Loan will be the last public issue in the
financial year ending 30th June, 1959.
As principal and interest are unconditionally guaranteed
by the New South Wales Government, every investor
gains absolute security, coupled with a high return.
The Loan is also an Authorised Trustee Investment in
N.S.W., Queensland. Western Australia and Tasmania.
Applications may be lodged
at any office of the —
Commonwealth Trading Bank;
Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited;
Bank of New South Wales;
Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited;
Or through your Stockbroker;
Or at the Board’s Offices.
SYDNEY WATER BOARD LOAN
Underwritten by :
RALPH W. KING & YUILL. ERNEST L. DAVIS & CO.
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
Metal is also a major pur-
chaser of virgin-lead ingots.
Through its seven wholly-
owned subsidiaries, the co.
trades as a lead-merchant,
reclaims, smelts and refines
scrap-lead and manufactures
lead-based alloys, lead-oxide
and storage - battery com-
ponents (including battery-
plates). Portion of the group
income comes from its export
trade, but the bulk of the profit
is won in Australia, the benefits
of volume-production provid-
ing some compensation for the
low profit-margins available in
export dealings. Factories are
located in Sydney, Melbourne
and Brisbane.
The group’s connections with
the battery-trade date back to
1934, when Phoenix Chemical
Co. Pty. and Battery Equip-
ment Supply Co. Pty. went into
business, in Sydney, as manu-
facturers of lead-oxide and
battery - plates, respectively.
Manufacturing activities later
spread to Victoria and led to
the formation of Lead Pro-
ducts Pty. in 1947, and Lead
Refineries Pty., in 1950, the
smelting- and refining-business
of C. J. and W. F. Doring
(Sydney) being added to group-
interests in 1951.
The public has had a good
run for its money since acquir-
ing a share-interest in the
organisation in 1951, annual
increases raising the div.-rate
from 8 p.c. in 1952 to a well-
covered 12| p.c. in 1956, while
new scrip was offered at par in
1955 (one-for-seven) and .1957
(one-for-eight).
The continued weakness in
metal prices would have called
for some skilful management
last term but, with stocks
written-down at the end of
the preceding term, the co. was
able to effect an almost com-
plete recovery in earnings
(although not in the earning-
rate), reckoning net profit
£25,279 stronger at £115,800,
after providing an extra
£20,005 for taxation (£6.9,736)
and allowing £31,365 (up
£5505) for depreciation. The
higher profit represented a
return of 25.7 p.c. on share-
capital, compared with 22.4,
29.4, 32.3 and 30.9 p.c. back
to 1954:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Re-
Jne. Profit. r Dividend serves.*
30, £ £ E
Capital profit, £lO.OBO .. 39,046
W/oft' intangibles, £21,409 16,057
’52.. 50,093 8 p.c. = 28,000 38,150
Share premiums res. subsid.
capitalised, £2250 . . 35,900
W/off intangibles, £12,731 23,169
’53.. 65,122 9 p.c. = 31,500 56,791
Surplus sale shares, £15,612 72,403
From contingency pro-
vision, £2OOO .. .. 74,403
W/off intangibles, £37,250 37,153
’54..108,250 10 p.c. = 35,000 110,403
Profit sale shares, £387 . . 110,800
’55..117,438 11} p.c. = 40,938 187,300
Profit sale assets, £5063 . . 192,363
’56..117,500 121 p.c. = 50,000 259,863
Intangibles w/off, £69,291. . 190,572
Unexplained reduction, £322 190,250
Profit sale assets, £6OO . . 190,850
’57.. 90,521 121 p.c. = 50,521 230,850
Profit sale assets, £6OO . . 231,450
’58..115,800 121 p.c. = 56,250 291,000
* Subject to intangibles, written-off
30/6/’57.
There was some improvement
in sales of lead, lead-alloys and
lead-oxide during the year, but
demand for battery-plates was
weaker, and, judging from the
interim report, sales in the first
half of the current term have
followed a similar pattern
without preventing an improve-
ment in earnings.
The consolidated balance-
sheet shows the co. in a com-
fortable and flexible position
at June 30 last:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
] 956. 1957. 1958.
£ £ £
Paid capital.. 400,000 450,000 450.000
Reserves .. 259,863 230,850 291,000
Overdraft . . 7,668
Creditors . . 193,000 190,070 124,127
Tax provision 74,282 51,636 70,880
Final div. . . 25,000 25,521 28,125
959,813 948,077 964,132
Freehold . . 185,352 198,015 206,454
Plant, machinery,
etc. . . 124,849 131,172 130,950
Shares .. 60,659 65,853 191,242
Stock ~ 410,255 232,470 156,443
Debtors, etc. 109,407 194,006 175,890
Cash .. 126,561 103,153
Intangibles .. 69,291 —-
959,813 948,077 964,132
Retained earnings for the year
were far in excess of the
(temporarily-restricted) outlay
on fixed assets and, with re-
ductions in the quantity as well
as the value of stocks (down
£76,027), an £18,116 drop in
book-debts and £23,408 from
cash holdings, the co. was able
to cut the amount owing to
creditors by £65,943 and put an
extra £125,389 into shares and
short-term deposits.
At last week's price of 255.
for the 10s. oids., cum rights


ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Kaput Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
et„. Makers of Classifiers,
Mater .filters, Steam Valves,
etc
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
RALPH W. KING W. KEITH YUILL K. C. PHILLIPS
lAN C. WALTON GORDON G. KING
Member* of The Sydney Stock Exchange
113 Pin STREET, SYDNEY. BL 5771-2-3
Cables and Telegrams: "Ralphldng” Sydney
Branches at Grafton and Armidal*
G. H. PARTRIDGE & CO.
E. D. PARTRIDGE, A. G. HANSON
{Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
113 Pitt Street, Sydney Telephone: BE 5031-2
to cash- and bonus-issues and
a 7jd. interim div., rights to the
cash-issue would have a
theoretical value of around
95., the scrip returning a little
under 5.8 p.c. from an 11 p.c.
div., at an cx-div. 19s.
Including the new scrip,
there was 13s. 2d. in net
tangibles at June 30 last for
every 10s. ord.
Woolcord Fabrics, Ltd.
Tl7oolcord Fabrics special-
~ ises exclusively in the weav-
ing of uncut moquette for the
domestic and commercial
markets, and, as the name im-
plies, wool is its basic raw
material. Seymour, - Victoria,
is the scene of operations.
With total assets of no more
than £192,204, and share-
holders’ funds of £134,558,
the company itself is ad-
mittedly of the vest-pocket
variety. But it is widely listed
and worth at least a glance
because of the current high
yield obtainable from its
ordinary stock. Dividend has
been at the rate of a well-
covered 8 p.c. for the past
three years, and, if no change
occurs, a return of 11 p.c. is
indicated from recent market
quotes of around 14s. 6d. for
a 20s. ordinary share.
At first sight this yield looks
fair enough, if the earlier
stumbling years are put down
to teething troubles. On the
other hand, the make-up of the
balance-sheet could give pause
to the would-be buyer:
Paid capital— 1957. 1958.
Pref £16,675 £14,475
Ord 93,627 95,827
Reserves .. 18,986 24,256
Mortgage ... 33,054 31,596
Creditors .. 19,344 13,558
Tax provision . . 10,452 8,300
Final dividends 5,091 4,192
£ 196,329 £192,204
Freeholds .. 59,092 60,635
Plant .. 42,195 39,945
Stock .. 53,439 66,852
Debtors .. 37,273 21,260
Cash .. 4,330 3,512
£196,329 £192,204
Two items stand out. At June
30, stocks were up £13,413, to
£66,852, while debtors had
declined by £16,013, to £21,260.
Chairman Raymont Moore
makes no mention of a stock
write-down in his annual
report, so presumably the
company got over the obvious
hurdle.
He did say, however, that thei
above changes reflected the
decreasing tempo of business
towards the close of the
financial year.
• This threat, he said, was met
by the institution of an adver-
tising campaign, mainly on
TV, in Victoria, with the result
that sales for the first quarter
of the new financial year are
up to previous averages.
Apart from these considera-
tions, the company looks happy
enough in its finances. Current
assets at the last reckoning
were £91,624, current liabilities
£26,050, and there was no
great outside indebtedness.
The 5 p.c. cumulative 20s.
preference shares are interest-
ing, in that they are con-
vertible to ords. at any time
at the holder’s option. So far
this prerogative has been exer-
cised only in regard to about
a quarter of the 20,000
originally issued.
Woolcord, Ltd., registered
in Victoria in 1946, didn’t be-
come producing until 1948, and
then at a low level. The in-
dustry is rather specialised,
and time was needed for
operative-training. By the
time a reasonable output had
been whipped - up, around
1951-52, soft furnishings were
being poured into the country
from overseas and there were
also losses due to the necessity
of writing-down stocks of
worsted yarn.
Profit for 1957-58 was down
slightly. A lower taxation pro-
vision (£B3OO against £10,300
in 1956-57) was offset by
higher charges for depreciation
(£4961 against £3111), and for
administrative expenses (£24,772
against £22,224); and after
these had been billed against a
gross profit of £52,262
(£51,144), net earnings were
struck at £14,229 (£15,509). Re-
turn on average ordinary capital
was a middling 13.7 p.c., and
compares with 16.6 p.c., 15.6
and 7.5 back to 1955:
t —Dividend— N Re*-
June Loss. Pref. Ord. serves.*
30, £ £ £ £
Tax overprovided, £l3OO .. 2,090
Nil Nil Deficit.
1952 .. 5,908 2,518
Profit. 5 p.c. Nil Reserves.
1953 . . 3,937 948 471
Deficit-
Intangibles w/off, £3021 .. 2,550
5 p.c. & sp.c. 4 p.c.Reserves.
1954 .. 9,786 1,895 3,654 1,687
5 p.c. 5 p.c.
1955 .. 7,756 948 4,567 3,928
8 p.c.
1956 .. 15,217 941 7,319 10,885
1957 . . 15,509 884 7,424 18,086
Provision long-service, £525 17,561
Tax overprovided, £832 .. 18,393
1958 .. 14,229 763 7,603 24,256
* Subject to intangibles, written-out
in 1954.
Reserves are now beginning
to take shape, and at balance-
date last, the net tangible back-
ing for each 20s. ord. was
255. Id. Assuming all prefs.
were converted, the asset back-
ing would be 245. sd.
The outlook remains obscure
for textiles, but the unchanged
interim of 4 p.c. for 1959 in-
spires confidence. Disregard-
ing the effect on the com-
munity’s purchasing - power,
continued low prices for wool
aren’t going to harm Woolcord,
but on the contrary will give
it a competitive advantage
over synthetic-fibre and cotton
soft-coverings.
A continued adverse balance-
of-payments can only lead to
further import controls, de-
spite Government denials that
any special action is impend-
ing, and Woolcord could be
one of the favored industries
In the past it has received a
certain amount of encourage-
ment from the Tariff Board.
Japan doesn’t appear to be
an active competitor, the bulk
of moquette imports coming
from Belgium-Luxemburg. In
1958 112,000 yards were im-
ported from these countries;
and a further 57,000 yards
from the U.K. out of a total
of 179,870 yards (value
£100,000). This was double
the quantity imported in the
previous year, and would
represent a good proportion of
Australian consumption.
Emperor Mines, Ltd.
A lthough Emperor Mines,
Ltd., hasn’t sent out a div.
since the Is. per Is. share paid
in December, 1955, a rising
throughput and attendant eco-
nomies, together with a Fijian
Government subsidy, should
produce some worthwhile
profits for the operating sub-
sidiary within the next few
years.
The subsidy of £F.2 per oz.
of fine gold produced, payable
for three years and limited to
£F. 150,000 in any one term,
will go towards the cost of the
big development programme
which, in the last couple of
years, has soaked up a major
part of the mine surplus. In
return for the subsidy, the co.
will forgo the remainder of its
period of exemption from
income-tax and royalties. The
full benefit of the develop-
ment-work should be felt in
about three years.
Emperor Mines receives the
bulk of its income from the
wholly-owned Emperor Gold
Mining Co., Ltd. (Fiji), which
in the current term expects to
raise throughput to a rate of
200,000 tons a year. In the
year to June 18 last the co.
treated 180,888 tons of ore (up
24,104 tons) for 74,9300 z.
gold (up 13,5000 z.). Average
head-grade was 9.2dwt. per
ton and the recovery rate 91.5
p.c. Operating costs per ton of
ore mined fell by 4s. to 90s.
Mine-development expendi-
ture of £170,959 (up £48,323)
took most of the £200,623 mine
surplus (up £78,485), deferred
expenditure written-off (£20,326)
and sundry expenses leaving
net profit at £21,030 (up
£20,140), of which £13,734 (up
£12,040) came in as a rebate,
on power- and air-charges,
from the associated Tavua
Power Pty. (The operating co.'s
figures are shown in Fijian
currency, £F.IOO equalling
approximately £AII2 10s.)
No div. was paid to Emperor
Mines during the year, the co.
finishing the term with a loss
of £1595. The parent co. has
a paid capital of £95,750, all in
f-p. Is. shares.
While prospects seem en-
couraging, the sharemarket
appears to be looking a fair
way ahead by pricing the scrip
at around Bs. 9d.


INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant
supervision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Est. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY - 27-3444
108 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - MU 4081
w
V
m
Best
Mineral
Supplement
For all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over 65%
tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed minimum of
30% phosphoric acid and 40% lime. Because there
is little protein and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do
not pay for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes the
really palatable and wholesome lick.
Tri-Cal-Os
STERILISED-
BONE FLOUR
J,
>
€a£ ■
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly supplied —
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: G.P.O. Bax 3583,
SYDNEY • G.P.O. Box 590, NEWCASTLE
• G.P.O. Box 4058, MELBOURNE • G.P.O.
Box 712F, ADELAIDE • G.P.O. Box 758K,
BRISBANE • G.P.O. Box H588, PERTH
• G.P.O. Box 533, LAUNCESTON.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Wellington, March 2, 1959.
"VTew Zealand’s internal
finances are arousing more
than usual interest this year.
Groaning under the weight of
unprecedentedly heavy taxa-
tion, the public is busily specu-
lating on what the Govern-
ment’s “take” will be.
The Minister of Finance,
Mr. Nordmeyer, has admitted
that there will be a surplus in
the Consolidated Fund and the
Social Security Fund when the
year ends on March 31. He
says, however, that he doesn’t
know, cannot even guess with
any accuracy, how big it will
be. Surely a rather strange
statement to come from a
Minister of Finance only a few
weeks before the end of the
financial year!
Abnormal and Complex
Admittedly the situation is
both abnormal and complex.
It is the first year of Paye, and,
in addition, tax-increases in-
troduced by the Budget do not
operate for the full year.
The combined Consolidated
. and Social Security Funds for
the nine months to December
31 showed receipts of £l9O
million, an increase of £4B
million on those for the corre-
sponding period of the previous
year. Payments tyere only £9
million up at £195 million. The
deficit of £5 million, against
£44 million last year, would
have been turned into a sur-
plus if £7 million held in sus-
pense account had been in-
cluded.
Receipts were up under all
headings, but the biggest in-
crease was in income-tax, £3O
million up at £4B million.
Income - tax receipts have
been boosted by the steady
flow from wage- and salary-
earners under Paye, in place
of the former one-sum pay-
ment in February-March, and
by the earlier receipt of instal-
ments of tax from self-
employed. On the other hand,
nearly all company-tax has yet
to be paid. To make things
more difficult, -the increased
rates of income-tax will be re-
flected only in the final half
of the year.
Customs revenue for the nine
months was £6 million up at
£3O million. The increase in
the petrol-tax has operated for
six of the nine months,
accounting for much of the
increased revenue, but, Mr.
Nordmeyer says, imports
generally are falling, and the
total yield from Customs-
duties may not be as high as
the nine months’ figures would
indicate.
The yield from sales-tax (£4
million up at £2O million for
the nine months) is expected to
exceed the Budget estimate.
Beer-duty (£3 million up at £8
million for the nine months)
will be lower than estimated
because of a slight drop in
consumption.
A Surplus in Prospect
The Minister of Finance in
the former Government, J. T.
Watts, is not so bashful as Mr.
Nordmeyer. He is willing to
hazard a guess about the final
result. He says it looks as if
all the company-tax, amount-
ing to between £4O million and
£5O million, to be paid in the
final quarter will be “profit”
to the Government.
The prospect of a surplus
for the year is already causing
pressure for tax-reductions. If
the surplus is a large one, as
seems likely, the Government,
with a small majority and an
election looming, may find it
hard to resist demands for
relief.
There is a good deal to be
said in favor of high taxation
at present in order to draw-off
surplus purchasing-power and
check the development of in-
flationary pressure arising from
the greatly reduced flow of
imports.
This presupposes, however,
that social-security handouts
are not increased, as they have
been, that wages are not
allowed to rise, as they have
been, and that Government
spending is firmly restrained,
as it has not been.
Savings Taken by Taxation
Mr. Nordmeyer, addressing
a Rotary Club recently, said:
“This last year—for reasons
on which we may speculate,
but about which no one can
be really certain there has
been a considerable draw-off
in Post Office savings and a
similar, though less, amount
in trustee savings accounts.”
Mr. Nordmeyer may not be
“really certain” of the reason,
but most other people are.
They know that the main
reason why private savings
have fallen is that he has taken
the money.
They believe that Mr. Nord-
meyer was putting the cart be-
fore the horse when he said:
“If savings were greater at the
present time the possibility of
tax-relief would be greater
than it is.”
The Government could re-
duce taxation and, by reducing
its own spending even more
drastically, still create a disin-
flationary climate. That is
what it should do.
In fact, however, Govern-
ment spending seems to be con-
tinuing on a rising course.
Company-tax and Probate
Two forms of taxation are
causing special concern to
those with the country’s eco-
nomic welfare at heart. Com-
pany-tax (10s. in the £ apart
from dividend-tax) and death- 1 '
duties.
The high rate of com-
pany-tax must tend to dis-
courage risk-capital and hinder
the development of new in-
dustry. Death-duties at the
new l increased rates will, it is
farms into uneconomic units
or the enforced neglect of
feared, lead to the break-up of
maintenance and to the dis-
integration of established
businesses (the Stock Exchange
Association) of N.Z. at its
annual conference made a
strong protest against the
“crippling taxes imposed in last
year’s Budget.”
“The Minister of Finance, ’*
said the association, “is stress-
ing the importance of saving,
and admits his concern at the
decrease in savings-bank de-
posits. The remedy lies
squarely in his own hands.
“The imposition of dividend-
tax, together with a very high
rate of company-tax, is viewed
with grave concern by the con-
ference. The burden of exces-
sively high taxation on the
public generally, and on the
investor particularly, must have
a far-reaching effect on the
economy of the country.
“The incentive and the
means to save are no longer
with the people and the results
of present Government policy
could well affect the high pro-
ductivity and development of
the country.
“It is essential that confi-
dence be restored and that
every incentive be given for
increased production. Taxa-
tion and penal death-duty rates
must be reduced while every
effort should be made to attract
and encourage the flow of over-
seas investment funds to New
Zealand.”


An Australian Saga
Voyage of the
Storm King
By MERVYN SKIPPER
A FASCINATING show in
Melbourne last year
was the Nautical Pic-
ture Exhibition spon-
sored by the Shiplovers’ Society
of Victoria.
Watercolors and prints of
ports and harbors, oil-paintings
of famous clippers which once
traded to these shores, and
often were wrecked upon
them ; the telescope of the
Marie Gabrielle, which left her
bones and the bones of most
of her complement on Cape
Otway ; nameplate of Cheviot,
which ended its days at Port-
sea ; a lovely sketch of Hob-
son’s- Bay in its heyday, alive
with shipping; the wreck of
this ship, the wreck of that;
a glorious picture of the Light-
ning, which made the fastest
24-hour run ever of any sailing-
ship 436 nautical miles,
respectable even in these days
of power ships ; an entrancing
view of shipping on the Yarra
where now there is no ship-
ping ; relics of Captain Voss,
who sailed the Tillicum more-
or-less single-handed to Aus-
tralia ; of Slocum, another of
them; other notable voyages
described in picture and
story ...
But, amazing to relate, no
mention of one of the most
remarkable voyages in Austra-
lian history—that of Captain
Jorgensen in the Storm King!
No mention at all ; yet,
while the voyage was in pro-
gress the world watched, just
as it watched when Sir Edmund
Hillary was scaling Everest.
One Australian newspaper
of the time said: “Without
doubt, the records of modern
navigation will be searched in
vain for a parallel to the
voyage just completed by Cap-
tain Jorgensen in his novel
craft the Storm King,” and the
president of the Marine Board
in Melbourne said: “The
voyage of the little Storm King
was the most extraordinary
feat of seamanship ever
recorded.”
Jt made such a deep impres-
sion amongst seafaring people
that when Baron Nordenskiold,
the Swedish Arctic explorer,
offered to finance a fully-
equipped expedition for
research in Australian waters
one of his conditions was that
Captain Jorgensen should be
made commander ; and Nansen
offered him the post of cap-
tain in his expedition to the
North Pole.
\l7hat grounds were there for
these opinions? “Novel
craft” was the right word, inas-
much as the Storm King con-
sisted of three ships’ water-
tanks bolted together!
The feat Jorgensen contem-
plated, however, was not a
stunt like going over Niagara
in a barrel; nor was he actu-
ated by personal ambition, like
Voss and Slocum. He used
to say that anybody with a
knowledge of seamanship
could have done what they
did.
His curious invention had
a much more serious intention,
the best way to explain which
CAPTAIN JORGENSEN
is to tell the story of the
inventor . . .
S. J. Englehardt Jorgensen
was born at Risor, Norway, in
1857. His family had been
one of the leading shipbuilding
firms in Norway for many
generations, and ancestors of
his may have helped to build
the Viking fleets which plun-
dered Britain. The Jorgensens
built many of the windjammers
which became famous in the
China tea-trade and the Aus-
tralian wool-trade.
Following an old Norwegian
custom, Jorgensen was sent to
sea at 14, got his first-mate's
ticket at 17, and three years
later was a master. In 1881 he
took command, as part-owner,
of the newly-built Ragna: her
tall spars were often to be seen
in Melbourne.
Jorgensen married in Mel-
bourne ; and he used to say
that he hated the sea. But
its cruelty and indifference
offered a challenge to him
which he certainly took-up, for
he spent his whole life pitting
his skill against its impersonaL
strength and fury. To sit down
and just look at it like a poet
didn’t interest him ; what inter-
ested him was the battle. He
used to say that the com-
mander of an ocean liner was
only a glorified bus-driver in
a peaked cap: what he liked
was the uncharted waters.
TTe believed that the life-
saving equipment of the
modern steamship, which was
beginning to oust the sailer,
was hopelessly inadequate.
Round about that time
public interest in the problem
had been roused by a series of
frightful marine disasters, with
the loss of hundreds of lives,
due mainly to exposure in open


lifeboats ; but long before that
Jorgensen’s interest had become
focused on it.
The sailing-ship he com-
manded was making its easting
far south in the Antarctic, and
the thought came to him:
“What on earth would I do
if the ship hit an iceberg?
Even if I got a lifeboat into
the water without it capsizing,
and succeeded in filling it with
people, we would all be dead
in a few hours from expo-
sure.”
Then his eye fell on one
of the ship’s tanks.
“If I got inside that,” he
thought, “at least I’d float and
would have some protection
from the weather.”
This was the germ of the
idea which culminated in the
Storm King.
A great liner, for all its
swimming - pools and
electric-lifts, was a death-trap,
and the open boats on which
its passengers complacently
relied should have been called,
not lifeboats, but deathboats.
They usually capsized or
swamped as soon as launched,
and could not be launched at
all to windward in really dirty
weather, which was when they
were most wanted. The boats
to leeward would be under
water, and the windward boats
would have to be taken off
the davits and carried across a
sloping deck swept by breakers.
This is what had happened
with the Quetta, with H.M.S.
Serpent, with the Orpheus in
New Zealand, and with scores
of other noble vessels.
Jorgensen felt as if he were
being watched by the eyes of
tens of thousands of drowned
men and women.
TX7hen the idea took hold of
” his mind, while he was
still in command of the Ragna,
he concentrated on how to use
the notion of ships’ tanks and
to apply it to the shape of a
practical boat for sea-travel.
He designed his boat in three
parts or more, each section
shaped to form the lifeboat
when joined together. Each
section had a false bottom to
contain fresh water, for use in
case of emergency as well as
to provide weight at the keel
to ensure self-balance.
When required, the indivi-
dual tanks could be connected
together in a few minutes by
a special patent, and there was
a special trolley to ensure
quick transport along the deck.
He took out patents for this
device in England, America
and other countries. His life-
boat, he thought, would float
even in the foulest weather,
while if the ship sank it would
launch itself, unlike the con-
ventional lifeboat tied to
davits, which must go down
along with the ship to the
bottom.
Thus the Storm King was as
unlike the lifeboats designed to
the Board of Trade’s specifica-
tions as a carthorse is to a
Phar Lap.
Torgensen showed his inven-
** tion to Captain Fullarton,
president of the Marine Board,
who urged him to take it to
London.
Captain Fullarton was sub-
sequently to say: “Captain
Jorgensen showed me his idea
before he left Melbourne, and
I told him I thought it quite
feasible, but I never imagined
in my maddest moments that
he would attempt to sail from
England to Australia in an
actual model of his invention.”
Jorgensen resigned command
of the Ragna in 1887, to be
in England while his Storm
King was being built; also to
continue his efforts to impress
the authorities in England with
the need of changing the open
lifeboat for the system he was
promoting— i.e., decked boats.
It was not long before his
great broad shoulders, his mas-
sive head, with enormous
square brow and long, firm
chin, and his determined blue
eyes were known in the offices
of every leading lifesaving
authority in Epgland, includ-
ing the majestic Board of
Trade.
He was politely laughed-off.
IyroTHiNG daunted, he had a
vessel built to his specifica-
tions by the engineering firm
of Redfern and Paris, rigged
it as a lugger, and put it in
the water.
They thought it was un-
seaworthy.
“Would you stiil think it
was unseaworthy if I sailed it
from England to Australia?”
he said.
They had always thought he
was half-cracked: now they
thought he was quite mad.
PLAN OF THE STORM KING
He was counselled to make
his passage round the Horn,
as that was considered safer,
so he chose the Cape, as the
Cape was notoriously danger-
ous at the season when he
would have to round it.
HThe Storm King left West
India Docks, London, at;
3 a.m. on September 12,
1890. Jorgensen’s companion
was Johannes Neilsen, who was
serving before the mast when
they first met, and, schooled by
Jorgensen, became a master.
He also had given up a com-
mand to follow his chief in
this do-or-die adventure.
The lifesaving capacity of
the Storm King was soon
tested. They ran into terrific
gales in the Bay of Biscay.
From the log-book; “It
was up hill and down dale, and
gave us sometimes the sensa-
tion of running on snowshoes.
Between the seas we had
hardly any wind, the sails
actually flapping. It was a
grand sight to see those moun-
tains of seas coming thunder-
ing after us., with their roaring
white crests. Each sea she took
splendidly. I have seen the
Ragna, swept by such a sea,
take at least five minutes to
shake the mass of water off;
while on the Storm King it
was off almost as soon as it
was on.”
The captain of a barque
altered his course to go to
the rescue of what he thought
was a pair of shipwrecked sea-
men, and sailed alongside for
half-an-hour making repeated
offers of provisions and assist-
ance, only to be told, to his
amazement, that all the
mariners wanted was to be
(Continued on page 45)


Gloria on Troubled Waters
By J. F. SEATON
They were fighting, as
usual, about the cars.
The Pollard family
boasted two cars,
although if you asked Frank
Pollard he’d have hotly denied
it.
“The family,” he would say,
“has one car. Keith owns, or
nearly owns, the other.” And
he would squint in the know-
ledge of having expounded a
truism.
But Keith thought differently.
So did Max.
This night, Keith wanted the
family car so he could go to
see his girl-friend at Windsor.
His own car, a canvas - top
Singer, was infinitely less com-
fortable on long runs than the
Chev. Max, 19, was quite
happy to use Keith's car to go
to a drive-in. But Frank Pol-
lard particularly wanted the
family car so he could take his
wife into town to the theatre.
Mrs. Pollard was hardly what
you’d call a strong woman
physically ; arthritis per-
petually hampered her. So
Mr. Pollard’s request was at
least reasonable.
He tried again. “Look here,
Keith, it’s not often we go to
the theatre. Couldn't you take
the Singer?”
“Aw, Dad.” Keith tried to
put out of his mind the
prospect of a bumpy 40-mile
trip in the Singer. He was
fighting a losing battle, but he
was obstinate under his surface
good-nature. “Couldn't I use
your car? It's a long way, and,
well, you know what the
Singer’s shock-absorbers are
like. Besides, it’s a wet night
and it might be dangerous.”
“Hey, wait a minute,” Max
cut in. “/ want the Singer.”
“Anyway, Keith,” his father
said, “couldn’t you go and see
your sweetie-pie some other
night?”
Keith flushed. He didn't like
to hear his beloved facetiously
referred to.
"1 told her I’d be coming
tonight . . .”
Max said “I don't want to
miss this show.”
Mrs. Pollard said, rather
crossly, “And 1 don't want to
miss the theatre. For heaven’s
sake, make up your minds, the
lot of you! ”
Mr. Pollard took a deep
breath. He would try again.
“Now look here,” he began
. . . and in ten minutes every-
thing was resolved nicely.
Keith took-off triumphantly
in the Chev., Mr. and Mrs.
Pollard got into the Singer and
Max, disgruntled, switched-on
the TV.
home after the show
(not so good, after all),
Mr. Pollard happened to ask
his wife a perfectly innocent
question.
Screwing up the toll-ticket
and throwing it out the win-
dow, he accelerated before ask-
ing, “When’s the lass coming?”
Mrs. Pollard, suffering the
after-affects of a second-rate
show and the present torture
of a semi-comfortable trip, re-
plied heatedly: “Oh, Frank!
Sometimes I wonder whether
you work too much. You
know as well as I do she’s
coming on Friday. 1 went to
the home and made final
arrangements yesterday.”
By now they had reached
the northern approaches of the
Bridge. “Friday, is it? Yes,
that’s right. I hope she’ll be
all right. Not,” he continued,
noting the expression on his
wife’s face, “that 1 mean she
won’t be all right, er, morally,
but—well, I hope she’ll be
willing to give you a hand
around the house.”
“Well, and why shouldn’t
she?” Mrs. Pollard said.
“We’re giving her a home, for
which she should be more than
grateful. Besides, they train
them at the home to be
obedient and to make them-
selves useful. Of course, she’s
only fifteen, but that’s neither
here nor there. If she could do
most of the housework it
would make things easier.”
Mr. Pollard grunted, swerv-
ing to avoid a fool pedestrian.
All the way out to the ordered
vastness of the North Shore
he refrained from saying any-
thing further about the matter.
It had been entirely his wife’s
idea and, while he secretly
thought that a young lady to
do the housework was a good
idea, he was not at all sure
about the young lady herself.
He wasn’t sure about
orphans, to start with. They
were, he thought, inclined to
be independent. This one
looked all right, but you never
could tell . . . all Mr. Pollard
knew about her was that she
had lost her parents when little
more than a child ; that she
had a sister who hacT just
opened a general-store down at
Gosford ; that after being
shunted around from aunt to
aunt she had spent three years
in the orphanage . . .
A shaft of sympathy ran
through him, and his wife re-
marked “What’s got into you?
You’re awfully quiet all of a
sudden."
He steered the car carefully
up the drive; Keith wasn't
home yet. “Just thinking, dear,
just thinking.”
/~\N Friday there was the cus-
tomary morning panic as
the two boys and their father
buzzed around getting ready
for work. Keith worked in an
insurance-office in the city ;
Max at a suburban bank. On
weekdays, during the daytime,
the family car unquestionably
belonged to Mr. Pollard. He
drove to and from work, and
this morning he groaned when
he saw rich country mud
despoiling the chrome-work.
He had no time to clean it
properly, but he had a go at
it with the garden hose. The
bulk of it came off, but quite
a bit remained. Mr. Pollard’s
thoughts, as he backed down
the drive, were unprintable.
Mrs. Pollard hobbled around
the quiet house, dusting and
polishing; she had already
fixed-up the spare room —
rather, her husband had. The
morning sped by ; at 12.15 she
heard a car pull-up. Smooth-
ing her hair and straightening
her dress, Mrs. Pollard waited
just inside the front-door. Slow
steps up the drive . . . the
knocker dropped sharply once
. . . Mrs. Pollard allowed half-
a-minute before opening the
door.
Big buxom Matron Burgess,
in a grey suit, stood on the
doorstep.
“Good morning,” she
boomed. Then, “Here's your
charge.”
From somewhere behind the
matron Gloria emerged, not
dressed drably, as Mrs. Pollard
had last seen her at the home,
but in a blouse and checked
skirt.
Mrs. Pollard said “Do come
in,” and later, over a cup of
tea, she turned to Gloria:
“Now, don't you worry. You
just relax and make yourself
at home. From now on you're
one of the family."
Gloria smiled. Not an out-
standingly pretty girl, but well
cared-for and certainly not un-
attractive. Well-developed.
Listening to her, Mrs. Pol-
lard observed the occasional
“ain’t' 5 and found herself
wondering whether, as Matron
Burgess had told her, the girl
had really passed the Inter-
mediate. But she pushed this
thought from her mind as
being unworthy ; and presently
the good Matron put her cup
on the table, thanked Mrs. Pol-
lard —“So very, very kind, and
I'm sure you'll find Gloria most
helpful"—and said good-bye to
Gloria.
Mrs. Pollard excused herself
and limped away with tne tea-
things ; when she got back,
after washing and crying the
dishes, the Matron had gone
and Gloria was standing un-
certainly in the living-room
with the suggestion of tears in
her eyes. Poor child, Mrs. Pol-
lard thought instinctively ; the
Matron had been a sort of
foster-mother . . . but when she
took the girl to her room,
supervised her unpacking, and
gave her a good lunch, Gloria
brightened-up a good deal and
even offered to scrub the
kitchen-flpor.
Mrs. Pollard was pleased,
and left her to it.
The reaction of Mr. Pollard
and the boys was pleasing.
Mr. Pollard more or less
reiterated his wife's words
about Gloria making herself
at home ; the boys were well-
mannered, and only two argu-
ments developed during the
meal. Both boys jumped up
after tea, carried the things out
to the kitchen and dried - up
while Gloria washed, all the
while talking about cricket,
current pictures and whatnot.
As Mr. Pollard drily
observed to his wife, while they
were sitting in the lounge
watching a Western on TV,
“I bet you two-bob the kitchen
craze will wear-off in a few
days. Still, it’s good whiie it
lasts, and it’ll help to unloosen
the girl.”
Mrs. Pollard said “What do
you think of her, Frank?”
“Think of her? She'll be all
right. Young, strong and, so
far, willing.”
o Continued on page 44)


FIRST regular jet service across the North Atlantic . •»
FIRST to the Far East. •.
BOAC Fid
4r
Britannia
with round-world jet service
...by Comet 4 Jetliner and Britannia Jet-Prop!
m
v
V jjjjjgK * •*'
\x> '■&,', '-.. •• ;•’;/• „a ~ •
.' • :•■■•■
Hi
..... «
Comet 4
From early April you can enjoy the incomparable comfort and luxury
of jetliner travel all round the world by BOAC. And only by BOAC —■
undisputed world leader in this jetliner age.
Comet 4 Jetliners now operating between New York, Montreal and
London, will also operate services from London via the Continent,
Middle East, India, Bangkok, Hong Kong to Tokyo. At Tokyo they
will connect with the new BOAC Britannia Jet-Prop services to Honolulu,
San Francisco, New York and London.
This round the world jet service can be joined from Australia by flying
Qantas to Hong Kong, Tokyo, or Honolulu, or by BOAC Britannia
from Sydney or Melbourne to Singapore or Bangkok. Break-of-journey
facilities available on all services.
BOAC Comet 4 Jetliner is supreme in the skies for super-fast, super-
smooth, vibration-free flying. The BOAC Britannia is the largest, finest,
fastest jet-prop airliner in the world.
Book by BOAC. You’ll arrive gloriously fresh . . i
thanks to the difference BOAC jet travel makes.
FLY BM
The most experienced Jet Airline in the World.
For full details of Luxury and Low-Fare services throughout
the world, see your Travel Agent, Qantas Empire Airways
(BOAC General Agents for Australia)
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL, S.A.A. AND C.A.A.
nv/iiv


Who Wonts Wool and What Wool Wants
The Problems of Wool
The present and future of wool is
a subject that has been getting
more attention in the past few
months than at any time in
decades. Woolgrowers, woolbrokers,
woolbuyers and wool-users have all been
active in discussing the problems of the
industry and in seeking remedies for
troubles which did not exist or were not
apparent in the boom years of six or
seven years ago.
Governments and political parties, con-
tent in the past to ride with the rest
on the sheep’s back, have been stirred to
interest now there is no longer room
there for everyone ; hence, questions in
Parliament about "wool cartels” and
(an old word with, to most people, a new
meaning) “pies.” Hence also the Wool
Inquiry which has been dragging-on in
Sydney for several months.
On February 28, at a special meeting in
Sydney, the Australian Woolgrowers’
Council decided to recommend to its
affiliated bodies —the council is composed
of representatives of Graziers’ Associa-
tions in the various States —that no major
alteration be made at present to the wool-
auction system. At the same time it
decided that it should “adopt a con-
structive policy of ascertaining improve-
ments necessary in the free-auction-
system and recommend their adoption.”
To this end a sub-committee would
be set-up to examine suggestions for
improvements. It was also resolved that
the council’s secretary, G. d’A. Chislett,
should go abroad “to examine various
aspects of wool-marketing, use of wool
in major consuming-countries and the
effect of extension of the wool-futures
market.”
These decisions of the Woolgrowers’
Council were the outcome of an agita-
tion against the auction-system by a
section of the growers who complained
that it worked against their interests and
benefited the buyers rather than the
producers. In making its decision the
council had before it Mr. Chislett’s report
on wool-marketing, a most comprehen-
sive document covering many facets of
the industry. It was decided to postpone
a full discussion of this report until Mr.
Chislett returned from the overseas trip
which it planned for him.
The Chislett Report
hthis voluminous document discusses
■*- factors affecting wool prices, both
in a general way and in relation to
other commodities; it gives a lucid
summary of the working of the present
system of wool-selling, with comments
on cartels, buying-rings, pies, lot-
splitting and forward-dealing ; it explains
the functions of the futures-market and
outlines the wool-marketing systems in
the main producing countries and in the
United Kingdom. Finally, it evaluates
the present system (of free-auction) and
alternatives which have been proposed.
In this final assessment Chislett says
that criticism of the present system falls
into four categories:
(/) Instability and inadequacy of
income to the woolgrower.
The annual income of individual wool-
growers is liable to considerable fluctua-
tions, and this introduces difficulties into
his financial arrangements and uncer-
tainty into his development programme.
Further, it is urged that the woolgrower
is not ensured an adequate return for his
investment and labor —an adequate
return being defined as cost-of-produc-
tion, plus a margin of profit.
(2) Instability of costs to the wool-
users.
Domestic wool-using industries are
highly competitive and because of this
the unstable cost of wool is a source
of annoyance because a firm with high-
priced stocks, or one caught without
stocks on a rising market, can be under-
cut by a rival with . access to cheaper
wool:
This criticism has been a feature of many
of the annual reports of Australian wool-
processors during recent months, often
associated with statements about the
advantage of stability of price possessed
by the man-made fibres.
(J) Instability of income to the Aus-
tralian economy.
This instability, says Chislett, has two
aspects. Large variations in export earn-
ings cause difficulties in Australia’s
financial relations with the rest of the
world, leading to currency-rationing
through import - licensing. Secondly,
sudden fluctuations in internal income
can cause inflation or deflation unless the
Government is successful in its counter-
measures.
Alternative Proposals
■pROPOSALS for an alternative to free-
•*- auctions vary in detail, “but they are
all basically floor-price or acquisition/
appraisal plans.” Some of the former
category suggest average cost-of-
production, plus a reasonable profit ;
others propose a compromise between
cost-of-production and world-market-
prices, including the prices of competi-
tive fibres. The acquisition/appraisal
plans also vary. Some envisage wool
being sold on a similar basis to wheat;
others want a return to the Joint
Organisation scheme under which wool
was marketed during the war. There are
also plans for stockpiling wool when
prices are falling, or for financing
individual growers to enable them to do
their own stockpiling.
Chislett considers that neither a floor-
price system nor a stockpiling plan would
provide the answer to the problems of
the industry. Defending the auction-
system, he says:
There is no such thing as “wool,” not
even “f.a.q. wool.” It is a most diverse
commodity, which has produced the most
logical selling system for its disposal . . .
barring the payment of a subsidy on wool-
production, I am convinced that the
difficulties in which some sections of the
woofgrowing industry find themselves
cannot be cured by superimposing controls,
such as a floor-price, on the existing system.
To scrap auctioning altogether and to
set-up a marketing authority which would
determine prices might place wool on the
same basis as man-made fibres, but then
woolgrowers would lack the degree of
control over quantity and quality which
the makers of man-made fibres exercise.
Moreover, such marketing would require
the exercise of skills and judgment not
readily available, and “fundamental
mistakes in price-policy could cause
serious damage to wool's future:
1 he main complaints against the existing
system might be cured by a fuller develop-
ment of wodl-lutures markets. Surely the
auction system of marxeting ana luiures-
markets are complementary.
Striking a note of warning, the Chislett
report concludes with the thought that
“if woolgrowers as sellers were to adopt
a monopolistic pricing policy” the chief
buying countries might be forced into
combination. For that reason, “from
the long-term outlook, we would be well
advised to make every effort to diversify
our market for wool.”
Asian Markets
A similar thought seems to be in the
mind of the International Wool
Publicity and Research Puna, which
announced last week a scheme to spend
£500,000 over three years to promote
the sale of wool in Japan. W. A. Gunn,
chairman of the Australian Wool Bureau,
is also thinking 'along these lines ; he
told the annual conference of the
Graziers’ Association that ultimately the
centre of the wool-textile industry could
shift from the West to the East. At
present Red China, because of its low
standard of living, was not a big market,
but ultimately China could be a major
wool customer.
The graziers’ conference also heard the
views of its biggest Australian customer
when a letter written by R. J. Webster,
chairman of Felt Textiles of Australia,
Ltd., was read. Mr. Webster said the
present system of selling was most
unsatisfactory as price-fluctuations and
uncertainty forced manufacturers to
become speculators in wool. He said
that in his opinion no manufacturer of
woollen goods would buy wool if any
other fibre could be substituted. His
remedy was the building-up of the
futures-market “so that all concerned —
growers, manufacturers, spinners and
processors could cover themselves
against contracts.”
Meanwhile, the Wool Inquiry in
Sydney still goes on, and cables from
America suggest that the synthetic-wool
publicity-men may have been overselling
their product and that women are swing-
ing back to true-wool garments. Perhaps
the Sabrinas and the Marilyn Monroes
will have the last word on the subject,
after all.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £81,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Brilliant Gold Stakes
Not since Heroic won the
big sprint with 9.8 in 1926 has
a four-year-old given such a
brilliant Newmarket perform-
ance as Gold Stakes did with
his 9.6 last Saturday.
The rain, which had fallen
intermittently on the track for
days, settled into a steady
downpour from midday Satur-
day, until the going was soft
enough to make the most loyal
supporters of Gold Stakes
think twice about the gelding’s
chance of winning with his
burden. So, instead of being
favorite, he started at 7 to 1.
Gold Stakes could hardly'
have won more easily with a
bag of feathers on his back.
He jumped clear at the start
and revelled in the mud, draw-
ing further and further away
until Hutchinson eased him
down to a five-lengths win over
Lady Cortauld, a half-length
to Tudor Hill. While it was
bad luck that such an import-
ant day’s racing was held in
such shocking conditions —New
Spec, for example, was hope-
less in the going and finished
last —the race proved Gold
Stakes the ideal horse; the
type that does his best in all
sorts of conditions.
It was the Star Kingdom
gelding’s 10th win from 15
starts, earning £12,762 in
stakemoney. His likely clash
with Lord in the All Aged
Stakes at Randwick on the
middle day of the A.J.C. carni-
val should be worth going a
long way to see.
Tudor Hill’s third again indi-
cated that the five-year-old
Ottoman horse improves a
stone in heavy going. If he
strikes similar conditions in
Sydney he will be a real Don-
caster chance.
• • • •
Usually the winner of the
V.R.C.’s Sires’ Produce Stakes
is rated the best two-year-old
in the land, but perhaps that
cannot be said of last Satur-
day’s winner, Travel Boy. The
colt won easily enough from
Prince Lea, but with Sydney
youngsters Fine and Dandy
(in particular) and Perouse
not in the Sires’ the race did
not carry the usual prestige.
Travel Boy, raced by the wife
of trainer T. J. Smith, cost
1700gns. at .the N.Z. sales. He
is a bay from Mere-Ana by
the imported Marco Polo 11.
Mere-Ana, who has thrown
the N.Z. winners Nonda,
Composed and Gold Standard,
is by Foxbridge (imp.) from
Konneta by Bulandshar (imp.).
Surprise of the day’s racing
was the manner of Chicola’s
“I dreamt of a pink tortoise, an elephant with Maltese
cross and a donkey with blue sash. Now —what should
I back?"
win in the three-year-old
classic, the St. Leger Stakes.
The filly showed by her Oaks
win in the spring that she
was good, but it was not to be
expected that she would
trounce Sir Blink by 12
lengths. The crowd objected
noisily to Williamson’s tactics
in taking Sir Blink to the lead
with a mile to go, but Chicola
picked the colt up so easily
that she must have won how-
ever the race was run. Un-
doubtedly Chicola is the best
staying filly in the land, and
she should do well at the
Sydney carnival, where her
programme includes the A.J.C.
St. Leger and the Adrian
Knox Stakes. The last filly
to win the V.R.C. St. Leger
was Amelia in 1947, and the
only other filly to win since
1922 was Tranquil Star (1941).
Trainer Jack Godby said
Sir Blink’s defeat would not
affect the colt’s programme,
which' includes the Queen
Elizabeth Stakes at Fleming-
ton next Saturday, and the
Sydney Cup.
Connections of Prince
Darius had an unenviable
problem to solve. He’s hope-
less on a soft track, but if he
was to have a chance in the
£lO,OOO Queen Elizabeth
Stakes next Saturday he had
to have the run in the Queen’s
Plate, and, as expected in the
prevailing conditions, he never
looked like taking a hand in
the finish. Punters made the
only other genuine w.-f.-a.
runner in the field, Wiggle,
favorite for the Plate, and she
landed the money. Preston,
on Wiggle, sooled the filly to
a long lead from barrier-rise,
to make it a one-act affair.
There were 25 starters in
the first heat of the five-
furlongs Hopeful Stakes for
two-year-olds, at set weights,
but despite the size of the field
the Neapolitan - Mendl filly
Josephina was sent out a
warm, favorite, and justified
the old racing saw, “the bigger
the field the bigger the cer-
tainty” by bolting-in three
lengths clear. She will certainly
win in better than Maiden
company.
The punters’ elect also won
the second division of the
Hopeful, when Summer Queen
scored comfortably from two
youngsters having their first
race, Turkey Talk and Yur-
gama. Summer Queen’s win
was the reward for consistent
form in much better company
—at her previous two runs she
had been placed behind good
fillies Ritmar and Snowflower.
Kevin Lafferty’s charge,
Orford, won the Pines Hurdle,
which meant for the Warrnam-
bool trainer that he had- won
11 of the last 12 jumping races
in which he had a runner.
Selections for today (Wed-
i nesday):—
\ Ascot Vale Stakes.: Travel
Boy, 1 ; Prince Lea, 2 ; Fast
Gun, 3.
Lloyd Stakes: Gold Stakes,
1 ; Wiggle, 2 ; Gay Saba, 3.
Breeders’ Plate: Ritmar, 1;
Rhexia, 2 ; Hyleena, 3.
Sydney Horses
Prince Kerdieil whistles
while he works, but evidently
the loud noise he makes dur-
ing track-trials at Rosebery,
suggesting a wind infirmity,
does not cramp his speed.
However, it did affect owner
W. H. Duffy, who had only a
light bet on him, and at the
shortest price (9 to 1), when
the Prince narrowly won last
Saturday’s Flying Handicap at
Canterbury Park. He beat two
other outsiders, Sealkeeper and
Jazz Singer.
A strong combination in
Sydney and provincial racing


start the dau right!
jhk
piy /
BkUV-O^®
«!«*
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— Is Divorce.
TO NEVILLE LINNEY.—T AK E
NOTICE that KEITH CHRISTEY
SMITH has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 14 of 1959 on the ground of your
Adultery with MARCIA ELIZABETH
SMITH his Wife If you wish to defend
such charge you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce’ Registry Supreme
Court Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by Ist April 1959 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from ERIC A. WILLIAMS, Solicitor, of
1 John Street, Lidcombe, New South
Wales.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— Ix Divorce.
TO JACK KETHEL GILES late of 88
Hunter Street Glen Innes in the State
of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE
that LILLIAN NONO GILES has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3978 of 1957
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years, and up-
wards and is asking for the exercise
ot the Court’s discretion in her favour
under Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matri-
monial Clauses Act 1899-1958 If you
wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Mint Building Macquarie Street Sydney
by the sth of May 1959 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. L. B. FEENEY & CO.,
Solicitors, of 16 Barrack Street, Svdney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH' WALES— Ik Divorce.
TO TEODOR BARTKIW late of 4
Pasliley Street Bal m a i n. —TAKE
NOTICE that MARY ELLEN JEAN
BARTKIW has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 144 of 1959 on the
ground of your adultery with a woman
unknown to her and is asking for the
exercise of the Court’s discretion under
Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial
Causes Act 1899 If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
the sth day of May 1959 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from ABRAHAM GEORGE - BRINDLEY,
Solicitor, 116 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
is Canterbury Park trainer
Jack Denham and his No. 1
jockey, Doug Weir. They went
close to landing a double at
Canterbury, when Half
Hennesy won the Cup. and
Achnacary finished a close
second to In Love in the
Welter. Both are raced by
Mrs. M. Pollard and had heavy
stable support. Half Hennesy
had beaten only a couple home
in Braemar’s main-event win at
Warwick Farm a week earlier.
Rosebery trainer Cecil
Buckley is racing smart two-
year-old Another Link on
lease, and he’s doing a good
job with the Bob Cherry geld-
ing, whose three outings have
yielded wins at Rosehill and
at Canterbury Park. At the
Park he was never worse than
second, and won easing-up
from the favorite, Rum Issue,
and rank outsider Staraway,
who should be improved by
the run, his second with the
colors up. Another Link was
ridden by J. Thompson, who
has at last struck a winning
patch—he also won the Third
Ashbury Stakes on Winchester,
the only favorite to win in
the eight events.
Winner of half-a-dozen or
so races at Newcastle, four-
year-old Rock Mai had his first
Sydney success when he battled
on gamely to stall-off the
better-fancied Tres Chaud, who
had headed him briefly in the
straight in the Canterbury
Campsie Stakes. Trained at
Newcastle by D. D. Frost, one
of the best-known mentors in
the coal city, Rock Mai should
win again in Graduation com-
pany before going into open
company. He is by Rock and
Rye (imp.) from Philena by
Salmagundi (imp.). Apprentice
C. O'Neill rode an excellent
race.
• • • •
Sal bo had her first metro-
politan success when she easily
lifted the Second Ashbury
Stakes. A five-year-old, she had
won several prior races at pro-
vincial and Newcastle fixtures.
An interesting nomination
for next Saturday’s weight-for-
age Rawson Stakes at Rosehill
(first of Sydney’s autumn
round) is New Zealander
Second Earl, who has won
several top races .in the
Dominion. At time of writing
he is also in the Railway
Quality Handicap.
Two years ago Redcraze ran
the nine furlongs of the Rawson
Stakes in 1.50.3, which is best
for the race. He was ridden
by A. Ward, now riding with
success in the Far East. Ward
also scored on Vagabond and
on Columnist. G. Moore won
on Tulloch (5 to 1 on) and also
on Tarien and Forest Beau.
The Sydney Cup is open,
with New Zealanders pro-
minent. Yeman was unplaced
over two miles at Trentham
last Saturday. Ark- Royal,
another Dominion stayer, has
arrived in Sydney looking fit
and ready for his first race.
Winner of more than £23,000
in stakes, he will be ridden
here by N.Z. horseman R. J.
Skelton, who has ridden him
in most of his important races.
The New Zealanders should
prove an attraction at Rand-
wick.
Yahabefebe didn’t do much
good for herself when she
raced in Australia, but she has
an excellent winning- record in
New Zealand. It was added to
at the Wellington meeting
(Trentham), when she started at
odds-on and beat her only two
opponents in the North Island
Challenge Stakes, running the
seven furlongs in the smart
time of 1. 22}.
After so many failures that
he must have just about broken
the heart of owner A. G.
Peterson, four-year-old Cuban
Tan had an all-the-way run-
away win in the Canterbury
Park midweek First Maiden
Handicap, for which he was an
odds-on favorite (all-tote
betting). At his previous start
he’d run a good third to
Loquendi at Rosehill. Cuban
Tan is by Near Way (imp.)
from Caprieste by Talking
from Capris (A.J.C. Epsom
winner) by Captain Bunsby.
Trainer Sid Day and his
brother, E. R. Day, race Rio
Barb, who cleared out with a
Newcastle Maiden Juvenile (4y
furlongs). Sid Day has trained
most of the progeny of the
filly’s dam, Barbara Pentheus.
others including Persian Barb,
Miss Pukka and Persian Pen.
Rio Barb is by Australian-bred
sire Rio Janeiro, whose wins
included the Caulfield Eclipse
Stakes in record time. Rio
Janeiro’s progeny are racing in
their first season.
* * *
The Trots
Outsider at 33 to 1, South
Australian four - year - old
Young Pedro won the final of
the Inter-Dominion Pacing
Championship (1J; mile) at
Melbourne Showgrounds on
Saturday night, with a crowd
of 30,000 there, though the
race was run in pouring rain,
on a waterlogged track.
Jumping him away smartly,
driver Hunt had Young Pedro
lying outside in fourth posi-
tion behind pacemakers Kodak
and Dusty Miller. At the two-
furlongs Young Pedro was
right on the heels of leader
Dusty Miller, and in the run
home proved too strong for the
Victorian, winning by 3yds.,
with Billabong Scott (N.S.W.),
driven by Jim Caffyn, 2yds.
away, third. Sydney’s Harold
Parkites will see Young Pedro
at Easter, when he comes over
for the Lord Mayor’s Clip.
Conditions of the race and the
state of the track on Saturday
night proved too much for
champion Caduceus.
Withdrawal of champion
colt Eden Monaro raised
Amazing Vale to favorite in.
the £3OOO final of the Sires’
Produce Stakes at Harold Park
last Friday night, and he duly
won from Danny Hanover and
Sandy Volo. Time was 3min.
15sec. The win made Amazing
Vale eligible for the N.S.W.
Pacers’ Derby, to be run at
Harold Park next month.
* * *
Sheffield Shield
The Shield season began as
usual with N.S.W. v. Queens-
land in Brisbane. N.S.W. made
a round 500 (Harvey 160,
Burke 113, Davidson 70), and beat
Queensland, 233 and 7-243, on the
first innings. Burge made 74 and
94 for Queensland, while Grout
made a first-innings 83 and Archer
a second-innings 79.
W.A. played in the following four
Shield matches, on its eastern tour.
It went home with one first-innings
win (over S.A.), two defeats on the
first innings (by Queensland and
Victoria) and one outright defeat
(by N.S.W.). One or two high-
lights of the four games, for and
against—Test-batsman Favell’s two
centuries, 104 and 145, for S.A.;
76 and 7-65 by Test-skipper Benaud
for N.S.W.; W.A. skipper Meule-
man’s 180 not-out against S.A.; two
centuries by left-hander Vernon
(128 against Q., 139 against S.A.);
W.A. fast-bowler Gaunt's 6-81 and
3-20 against Q., and W.A. fast-
bowler Hoare’s 6-85 against S.A.
The next Shield match, N.S.W. v.
S.A. in Sydney, was a high-scoring
game won by N.S.W. on the first
innings. In N.S.W.'s 7-554
(declared) was that new Shield
sixth-wicket record by Marks and
Thomas, mentioned last week.
Also century-making (104) for
N.S.W. was Bill Watson, in a
return to Shield-cricket. In S.A.'s
second innings opener Gavin
Stevens made 259 not-out, highest
Sheffield Shield score since the war,
against an attack weakened by the
breakdown of Rorke. Stevens
eventually just failed to make 1000
runs in a first-class cricket season
—he reached 951. (Colin McDonald
finished with 991, O’Neill 982 and
Harvey 949.)
In Brisbane Queensland defeated
S.A. outright by an innings and 95
runs. Mackay made an unusually
fast (for him) 113 after taking
5-51 in S.A.’s first innings, of which
top-scorer was the hard-hitting
Dansie (107 not-out out of 219).
This was Dansie’s sixth century
against Q. since 1952 —Dansie either
fails completely, or goes on to a
reasonably big score, and he is
often at his best in a tight corner.
Veteran spinner Walmsley won the


Don’t miss the
RANDWICK
EASTER
CARNIVAL
SATURDAY MARCH 2S
it Doncaster it St. Leger
it Sires Produce Stakes
MONDAY MARCH 30
★ Sydney Cup
WEDNESDAY APRIL 1
it All-aged Stakes
SATURDAY APRIL 4
★ Queen Elizabeth Stakes
it Adrian Knox Stakes
match for Q. with 6-56 in S.A.’s
second innings.
Beginning on Christmas Eve came
Victoria v. N.S.W. in Melbourne —
outright win by N.S.W. by 162
runs. Victoria began the first-
class season very poorly, and was
labelled “Victoria’s weakest team
ever,” though it showed signs of
form later in the season. It
hadn’t settled down when
crushed in the first innings by speed
(Rorke 6-52), in the second innings
by guile (Benaud 7-32). Marks
made a century in this his second
Shield game (103).
Queensland then went on tour.
In its four games it was beaten
on the first innings by N.S.W. and
S.A., defeated W.A. outright after
a sporting second-innings closure
by Meuleman, and defeated Vic-
toria on the first innings.
Features of these games—
Rorke’s 6-58, including the hat-
trick, in Q.'s 153, which (with his
effort against Victoria) brought him
into Test calculations; Q. opener
Reynolds carrying his bat for 125
not-out (out of 281) in the first
innings against W.A., while openers
Rutherford and Woodhead hit-up
a record opening-stand for their
State of 136 in W.A.’s second
innings; against S.A., Lindwall’s
7-92 in the heat in S.A.’s first
innings, which took him into the
fourth Test, centuries in the game
coming from Stevens (141) and
Burge (101); Burge followed with
171 against Victoria, which match
was Walmsley’s last Shield game
before transferring to N.Z. —
Walmsley, a Mormon elder, entered
Shield cricket in 1954-55 at the age
of 38, and has. been a very handy
player for Queensland; one of
Australia’s best spinners in recent
years, good tail-end bat and capable
fieldsman.
Victoria, on its western tour, was
beaten outright by W.A. by an
innings and 141 runs—W.A.’s
biggest win in Shield cricket —and
beaten by S.A. by eight wickets,
S.A.’s first outright defeat of
Victoria for six years.
One notable batting effort, W.A.
left-hander Shepherd’s 173 not-out
(out of 392) against Victoria, which
equalled his previous highest Shield
score, made against Queensland in
Brisbane in Nov., 1956.
W.A. then defeated S.A. on the
first innings in Perth, Stevens get-
ting another century (126, retired
hurt) in S.A.’s second innings, and,
in Melbourne, Victoria got its
revenge on S.A. with an outright
win by an innings and one run —
Vic., 511; S.A., 288, 222. Vic-
toria's batsmen at . last really got
going. (Potter 119, Ray Harvey 97,
Lawry 60; for S.A., Lill a first-
innings 107.)
Victoria, moving north, had an
interesting tussle with N.S.W. It
won on the first innings, after
forcing N.S.W. to follow-on;
though at stumps at the end it was
holding on defensively, and facing
possible outright defeat. This was
the match in which Victoria’s bats-
men Kendall, Ray Harvey and
ShaW slammed the N.S.W. bowlers
in the first innings.
With Rorke capable of only four
erratic, half-pace overs on the first
day after his fourth-Test effort,
Benaud also below par and New-
castle spinner Marjoribanks ineffec-
tual, N.S.W.’s bowling looked
second-rate.
Rorke’s selection was a mistake.
He should have been rested, as was
Davidson.
• • • •
Victoria v. Queensland in Bris-
bane was interfered with by rain,
and the game was drawn, with the
position favoring Victoria. Queens-
land all-rounder Bratchford, who
was nearly “given away” by the
selectors earlier, took 6-57.
In the equivalent Shield game of
1957-58 playing-time was also
reduced by rain, and the game
drawn; Bratchford then also did a
noble job for Q., with a hard-
hitting 78 (assisted by Lindwall, 71)
after his side had lost 6-87.
• • • •
N.S.W. wound-up the season with
two easy-outright wins, over S.A.
and W.A. The Shield winners could
probably have beaten S.A. by an
innings had Benaud insisted on a
follow-on, but he prolonged the
game by batting a second time, with
everyone “having a go.” Davidson
finished the match off with three
wickets in four balls. N.S.W., by
174 runs.
Against W.A. Davidson had a
good double—4-24 and 110. Sur-
prisingly, his 110 was his first
Shield century (but he’s played
many useful knocks for N.S.W.
since his first State game in
1949-50). O’Neill also made a
hundred (128). Benaud, who’s had
a wonderful season, made 39, took
one remarkable catch and bagged
seven wickets. Young N.S.W. fast-
bowler Frank Misson, in his first
Shield match, took 3-31 and 3-64 —
all six were recognised batsmen;
he got left-hander Vernon for “a
pair.”
Best W.A. bowler, Hoare, with
a lion-hearted 5-103. Highest W.A.
innings, Strauss’s second-innings 52.
Both ’keepers, Ford and Buggins,
each dismissed five batsmen in the
first innings, and Ford another two
in W.A.’s second knock.
• • • •
“K.R.”: Jim Burke, who last
week retired from first-class
cricket, took 9-53 (with
O’Neill, the other batsman,
run-out) in Northern District’s
surprise win over St. George
in Sydney grade-cricket on
Saturday. With his off-breaks
Burke has always been a pro-
lific wicket - taker in grade-
cricket. Surprising he was not
given more bowling in big
cricket.
* * 9
Most spectacular item on
the second day (Mar. 2) of the
Australian athletic champion-
ships in Hobart was 18-year-
old N.S.W. sprinter Don Bur-
sill’s winning of the 220yds.
in 20.9 sec. This time equalled
the British Empire record, and
broke five other records. Bur-
sill was running as an indi-
vidual—the State selectors had
not thought him good enough
to run in the race. Last Octo-
ber, Bursill, then of Scots, won
the 100yds., 220yds., and
440yds. at the Sydney G.P.S.
meeting.
“Veryl”; At Melbourne
Olympic Park last Wednesday
night Herb Elliott won an in-
vitation 1000-metres race in
2min. 25.35ec. The track was
wet, so there was little chance
of a record being set. It must
be ages now since Elliott was
beaten in a race —I can’t recall
one in the past couple of years.
Promising Queenslander Tony
Blue, who two days earlier had
beaten Lincoln for the Aus-
tralian 880yds. title, came a
very good second, John
Murray was third and U.S.
“four-minute” miler Don Bow-
den, not at his best, a dis-
appointing fourth.
* * *
“A.J.S.”: W.A. Soccer
official Stan Power, who has
been closely associated with
Perth City club since his arrival,
from England in 1912, has
decided to retire from active
association with the sport.
Power began as a junior in
1913 and continued to play
for a number of years, except
when on active service with the
48th Battalion, Ist A.I.F. He
was secretary of Perth City
seven years, and in 1948 was
appointed chairman and made
a life-member for his work
for the club.
* * *
“Zorok”: First Australian
boxer ever to fight in the
famous Golden Gloves tourna-
ments in America, the stepping-
stone to professional heights
of many great champions,
British Empire Games light
heavyweight champion Tony
Madigan followed his winning
last month of the New York
Golden Gloves light-heavy
title by winning last Wed-
nesday night the Eastern Divi-
sion final (in which he had to
stoush two opponents in the
one night). All his wins in
both tourneys were clear-cut
and decisive. In Mexico City
last August Madigan won the
light-heavy title in the Inter-
national Diamond Belt, against
stout opposition. He fights
the Western Division cham-
pion later this month for the
national Golden Gloves title.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE CYPRUS AGREEMENT
T>ress comment on the sign-
ing of the Cyprus agree-
ment :
“Yorkshire Post”: “If, as
Mr. Macmillan said, the
agreement is a victory for all
concerned, it also represents
concessions by all concerned —
and not least by Makarios.
That should be remembered.
For the revolt in Cyprus was
engineered by the Enosis
movement. Its aim was not
independence for Cyprus but
the union of Cyprus with
Greece. The terrorists fought
to secure this end —the trans-
forming of a British colony
into a Greek colony. They
have not succeeded. As British
statesmen have long empha-
sised, the rights of the Turkish
minority in Cyprus must be
safeguarded. Thanks to the
wisdom that finally prevailed
in Athens and Ankara those
rights are fully maintained in
the new pact. Cyprus becomes
independent of Britain, Greece
and Turkey, but maintains
close links with all.
“While rejoicing that the
bloodshed and misery of the
past four years have thus been
ended it is well to bear in
mind that there are these
elements of compromise in the
settlement. To men and
parties deeply embittered after
prolonged struggle compromise
is not an attractive word. Men
like Grivas did not fight for
this. The new Government of
Cyprus, when it takes-over —
and there is every reason for
speed now in bringing that
about —will not face an easy
task. There are ruthless men
in the island, and racial hatred
which never used to exist has
been stimulated by the un-
happy events of recent years.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph” :
“Since we are to maintain
bases of our own in the island,
we have necessarily required
formal guarantees for them :
security against eviction by any
future Cyprus Government,
security of communications
between them, and the un-
fettered right to use them as
we wish. Nevertheless, our
real safeguard must remain un-
written ; it rests on the con-
tinuance between the Govern-
ments and communities of
such harmony that none shall
have cause or desire to dispute
our rights. This is indeed the
guarantee on which the whole
agreement depends. It will
work if the contracting Powers
and the majority of Cypriots
want it to work. If they should
fall out, whether in Cyprus or
over some other issue, none of
the checks, balances and safe-
guards now devised could
prevent trouble.”
* * «
London “Daily Express”:
“Yet another unit of the
British Empire is cast away.
“As usual, the surrender is
saiuted with applause and con-
London “Daily Mail.”
ALPHABET SOUP—OR EATING THEIR WORDS.
gratulations. Those who
object are scoffed at as reac-
tionaries. So another stage is
accomplished in the dissolu-
tion of the Imperial structure.
Weakness and blundering have
prevailed where vision should
be.”
• * *
London “Observer ” : “The
settlement, while laying down
general principles, did not
attempt to outline a Constitu-
tion. Fundamentally, these
principles commit Cyprus to a
dyarchic type of Government,
which demands full agreement
between Greeks and lurks on
all important questions.
“Dyarchies are never easy
to work—as Britain knows to
her cost in Malta. In Cyprus a
dyarchy can work only if
there is real conciliation be-
tween Greek and Turk. This
friendship will be put to an
early test in the negotiations
that must now take place ro
draft a Constitution. If Arch-
bishop Makarios makes a be-
lated attempt to weaken the
concessions to the Turks, there
is a real risk of deadlock and
the whole situation being again
thrown into doubt.”
* * *
London “New Statesman” :
“Madness, Madness!” shouts
the medical officer at the end
of The Bridge On the River
Kwai. A future historian,
analysing the Cyprus conflict,
might be tempted to make the
same facile comment thus
missing the opportunity to
draw a valuable political lesson,
“For, if Cyprus was madness,
it is a very common and re-
current variety to which few
of us seem immune: the mad-
ness of political slogans,
‘Never,’ said the British,
‘Enosis,’ said the Greeks,
‘Partition,’ said the Turks.
Around these words, each
mutually exclusive, each largely
unrelated to the interests of the
ordinary people they were
alleged to benefit, clustered the
senseless passions which
modern mass-communications
and mass-electorates can con-
jure-up with frightening speed,
but which are not so easily dis-
persed. Other emotive words
joined the vocabulary of
volence: ‘Vital Interests,’
‘Sovereignty,’ ‘Murderers,’
‘British Boys,’ ‘Atrocities.’ To-
gether, these words killed 400
men and women; they cost
£3O million ; and it took four-
and-a-half years of misery until
the politicians saw through
them to the reality they
obscured.
“Have the 400 died in vain?
Not if we force ourselves to
understand why they died and
apply that knowledge else-
where.”
* * »
C. L. Sulzberger, in “N. Y.
Times ”: “Is the Mediter-
ranean evolving its own vague
formula to adjust conflicts
between. free-world strategic
needs and the rights of aspiring
peoples? After all, the United
States has already shown at its
bases in Spain, Morocco and
Libya that it is possible to
benefit international security
without infringing on national
freedom.
“Might this approach not
apply to other unsolved


puzzles? Can it help Britain
work out difficulties with
Malta? Above all, could it
guide the French and Algerians
toward a settlement of their
cruel impasse? Cyprus has
shown that there are indeed
ways of composing the most
savage clashes between strategic
and economic interests on the
one hand and self-determina-
tion on the other.”
* * *
“N. Y. Times” editorial:
“This agreement, which would
have been regarded as a miracle
only a few months ago,
represents a compromise
between conflicting interests
and rival passions that is more
important for its effect on the
eastern Mediterranean and the
whole Atlantic defence system
than for any of the novel
details it provides for the new
order on Cyprus. Britain gives
up an anachronistic colony it
has ruled for 81 years,
but retains permanent bases
on it unde r its own
sovereignty and under con-
ditions that should make
them far more valuable for it
and for the North Atlantic
alliance than before. By doing
so it also ends the four-year-
old guerrilla war on the island
that cost hundreds of lives
and impaired the value of the
bases.
“At the same time the agree-
ment also ends the feud
between Greece and Turkey
over Cyprus and settles their
last territorial dispute. It
thereby restores friendship and
co-operation between them to
strengthen the weakened
southern flank of Nato and
promote the stability and
prosperity of the whole area.
Through their cross-connection
with Yugoslavia within the
Balkan alliance they also enlist
that country more firmly in a
common defence against Soviet
aggression. The denunciation
of the settlement both by the
Soviets and by Greek and
Cypriot Communists is a
token of its significance.”
U.K. Defence...
TJritain’s latest White Paper
on Defence, drafted by
Defence Minister Sandys, was
seen by most U.K. papers as
an unexciting document a
progress-report on the first two
years of the five-year plan
announced in 1957 rather
than a statement of new
defence principles and theories.
The 1957 plan, it will be
remembered, was to go all out
for the nuclear deterrent while
retaining and building ‘'ade-
quate conventional forces.”
This year’s Paper makes it
clear that the deterrent is being
proceeded with, but lays
special emphasis on the supply
of improved conventional
weapons to the services, and
recruiting for the “compact,
all-Regular forces of the
highest quality” that have been
promised for 1963.
Samples of press comment:
London “Daily Mail’’: “Some
exceedingly vital statistics are
necessarily withheld. In 1957
the main nuclear weapon was
the H-bomb. By 1958 it was
‘now in production.’ Today
‘production is proceeding
steadily.’ Which could mean
much. Or little.
“In 1957 it was ‘intended’
that bombs should be supple-
mented by missile rockets —
from the U.S. Two years later
we are right in the rocket age,
and a fateful choice confronts
us. This is whether to rest our
main defence on: (1) a land-
based missile ; (2) a submarine
rocket; (3) a new heavy
► bomber.
“The decision has been made.
It has gone to the Blue Streak,
an all-British rocket with a
range of 1800 to 2000 miles.
“The instinctive preference
of the British people would
have been for the submarine
missile, a sea-weapon fired from
an undetectable platform.
There are technical objections,
however. One is its gigantic
cost. Another is the possibility
that detection devices will one
day be able to pinpoint a sub-
marine anywhere at sea.
“This apart, we are far from
happy about the Navy. In 1957
it was decided to scrap
hundreds of ‘conventional’
vessels of all classes and to rely
on fewer, more modern types,
especially guided-missile ships.
But they are slow in coming.
Three years ago we read that
‘designs are put in hand,’ but
today only ‘preliminary work
has begun’ and two will be laid
down ‘in the near future.’ We
hope that in this case near is
not too far.”
* * *
London “New Statesman’’ :
“The principle behind the
Sandys ‘revolution’ [the 1957
plan] was that Britain could
not afford to spend £l5OO
million on defence, and that
substantial savings were not
only possible but imperative.
This is now finally abandoned:
not only will defence cost £4S
million more —not £2O million
as the Government seeks to
prove in Paragraph 48 but
Faith in the
Future
It has been true of every great nation in
modern history that at some point it seemed to take
sudden strength and surge forward to the heights
of its achievement.
Australia, I believe, is entering such a
period now.
We are at the ten-million mark in population.
The sooner we make to a target of double that
number the faster we will take ourselves into this
phase of gathering" prosperity.
In Canada at the end of last year I discussed
this subject of population with Mr. Rhys Sale, a
leading Canadian industrialist. He told me Canada
was finding a noticeable difference, in terms of
economic progress, between her more-than-fifteen
million people now, as against the ten-million of
thirty years ago.
Australia is numerically at the stage Canada
reached about 1929. Our rate of growth—by births
and immigration, in proportion to total population
—is slightly higher than Canada’s today.
But proof of the strength to be gained from
increasing numbers is here before our own eyes.
The way in which Australia has borne the
fluctuation in wool prices can be attributed to our
more widely based industrial economy, which has
been made possible by the sharp rise in population
in the last twelve years.
Count also among the advantages from this
development the readiness with which overseas
investment is coming latterly to Australian industry.
We can admit the internal difficulties, the cost,
of sustaining migration at a high level. We know
our economy is sensitive to conditions ruling outside.
But we also have to face the fact that the
world is not turning for our benefit alone. On a
United Nations estimate, the Earth’s population
will have doubled in the next forty years.
Whatever we achieve must be purchased—in
positive effort of our own, as much as by cash and
credit. It resolves itself into how much Faith we
have in our country, and in ourselves.
And that Faith, to me, implies confident
acceptance of a steady migration as the hinge on
which our happy future will swing.
H. Hastings Deening


Between
Ourselves
Rs
$
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
THE BALLET “ROMEO AND JULIET,” AT THE BOLSHOI, AS PREVIEWED BY CUMMINGS IN LONDON
“DAILY EXPRESS.”
there is not a word about
possible future savings.”
The same: “The White
Paper reveals that the Sandys
policy has collapsed on all
counts. We have no mobile
strategic reserve, and even if
one could be collected there
are no plans to provide it with
either the minimum air-trans-
port or the level of modern
equipment required to make it
operationally effective. The
only type of operation we can
hope to mount (and that re-
quiring several weeks’ assembly)
is a Jordan-style landing, based
on the assumption (which
fortunately proved valid) that
it will be unopposed. We
cannot therefore fight a con-
ventional war. Equally, we
cannot fight a nuclear war;
for, even if Sandys's statement
that there will be a ‘significant
increase’ in the production of
warheads is true, we still lack
the means to deliver them in
any quantity. Moreover, we
shall continue to lack this
means for the foreseeable
future ; the TSR 2 will be
highly vulnerable to Soviet
Mach 3 fighters, which are
already operational. From the
evasions and ambiguities with
which the sorry tale of failure
is shrouded only one reliable
fact emerges: the taxpayer will
pay more.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph’’ :
“What is certain is that any
future Minister of Defence
now has a much sounder basis
for increased expenditure than
at any time since the war.
Ruthless economy and amal-
gamation have been combined
with a real effort to enable the
services to compete with
civilian jobs in the pay and
conditions offered. To have
dispensed with over 100,000
soldiers ‘employed on non-
operational duties' will be a
'remarkable proof of the will-
power which the Minister has
shown in reducing the services’
tail. Indeed, his contribution
to the reduction of Govern-
ment expenditure has been out-
standing, even though the new
estimates exceed the old by
£4B million. By persisting in
the defence planning of 1956
we might now have a bill of
over £2OOO million.”
* * *
London “News Chronicle” :
“The main problems remain
unmet by the White Paper.
How much care is being taken
of vast sums of money ex-
pended on weapons that either
prove useless or become obso-
lescent overnight? Why is
there still duplication of
weapons which Mr. Sandys has
so often denounced? How
long, for that matter, can we
afford to remain in the upper-
missile bracket? How far are
Britain and America sharing
knowledge?
“Mr. Sandys can claim that
there is nothing new in the
White Paper because there has
been no change of policy. But
this is a matter on which there
are constant changes of thought
which concern every taxpayer.
He is entitled to know more
than Mr. Sandys tells him.”
And the Nuclear Club
In the same week in which
the White Paper on Defence
was presented there was a
debate in the Lords on a
motion, put forward by Lord
Simon of Wythenshawe, for
unilateral nuclear disarmament
by Britain as part of a plan to
stop more Powers from de-
veloping nuclear weapons.
Three press opinions on the
debate :
E d i n b u r g h “Scotsman” :
“Lord Simon's motion asks
Britain to wash her hands of
all guilt for a nuclear war. The
Bishop of Manchester sums-up
the moral content of it in one
sentence: ‘Let God defend the
right.’ By implication then,
the motion is pacifist. It asks
Britain to contract out of the
arms-race, and so for practical
purposes out of the Western
alliance. This implies either a
willingness to allow Com-
munist occupation or an
assumption that America's
technical power alone could
maintain stalemate. The
assumption is incorrect.
America has fallen behind
Russia. Were she to fall far
enough behind, her deterrent
might become ineffective.
Britain could alter this funda-
mental disparity in the long-
run only by agreeing to a much
fuller integration of resources.
‘'lnstead she makes her own
deterrent, a marginal contri-
bution to the Western one. She
stations the 1.R.8.M. in Britain
—an area too small to allow
the mobility strategists advise.
A fully integrated Western
defence policy might allocate a
very different role to Britain,
but certainly one entailing the
use of nuclear power, either
submarine-based 1.R.8.M.s or
tactical atomic weapons. While
Britain is not making the best
possible contribution to
Western defence, a condition
of technical stalemate seems
feasible on the basis of
reorganised British - American
effort. By achieving rough
parity again the West might
put itself in a position to
bargain for disarmament —but
few speakers in the Lords
debate seem to understand the
extent of Western inferiority
now. If we are to run the arms-
race we must make a job of
it.”
* * *
“Manchester G a a r d i a n”:
“The essential question is
whether it is to Britain’s
advantage that nuclear weapons
shall go to further nations. As
Lord Simon said, probably
another 10 countries will be
making bombs in the years
ahead. Do we welcome this, as
a reinforcement of what Lord
Strang called ‘the Balance of
Terror’ (and he approved it):
or do we, with Lord Russell
and Lord Adrian, regard it as
greatly increasing the risk of
general war?
“It depends, of course, into


QUEENSLAND
INSURANCE
Co. Ltd.
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE &
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies
throughout the World.
whose hands the bombs and
missiles go. If it were merely a
question ,of Sweden and
Switzerland, anxieties would
be few. But, after France has
its bomb, Western Germany
will hardly allow itself to be
left behind ; and when nuclear
weapons are numerous in
Western Europe (whoever
holds them), the Russians are
all too likely to distribute them
in Eastern Europe.
“In the Middle East, Israel
may have the capacity to make
them by about 1965, and the
United Arab Republic will be
reluctant to let itself be left out.
In the Far East, China and
Japan face each other ; and the
list does not end there. Each
country taken alone may seem
to bring no great risk with its
bombs. But the danger of
accidental or irresponsible use
is cumulative.”
* * *
London “Economist”: “At
least it [the debate] focused
some attention on the state that
the world can expect to get
into, as the number of nuclear
Powers grows, if no agreement
is reached to arrest the nuclear-
arms race. The end in view is
one to which almost everyone
(Lord Strang was of the
minority that favors atomic
bombs for every Ruritania)
would subscribe —and to which,
indeed, the Government did
subscribe ; all that is in dispute
is how it can be reached. The
proposition that Britain should
offer to renounce its own
nuclear weapons as part of a
pact between it and other
potential nuclear Powers to
leave the great deterrent strictly
to Russia and America is at
first sight attractive. It could
inaugurate inspection and
control techniques outside
Russia and America which
later become acceptable to the
super-Powers themselves. It
was moderately urged with
one or two lapses—by Lord
Simon and Lord Russell as a
practical first step.
“But the difficulties are
formidable. To rope Sweden,
Switzerland and Canada in
such a policed abstinence-area
is one thing; to bring in
France and China is another.
It would have to leave the exist-
ing balance of power between
the West and the East un-
disturbed, and hence the
deployment of American and
Russian nuclear bases outside
American and Russian soil
would have to continue ; those
bases would thus find them-
selves within the policed area.
Lord Home made the reason-
able and obvious point that the
immediate objective is to get
three-Power agreement on
suspension of tests now —the
best possible gesture to the
non-nuclear countries and
Russian agreement to inspec-
tion, which would be a greater
immediate gain.”
Missing U.S. Transport
A fter several unsuccessful
attempts to obtain official
Soviet information about the
loss, over Soviet Armenia in
September last year, of an
unarmed American transport-
plane containing 17 U.S. citi-
zens, the American Govern-
ment has released documentary
evidence in the form of a
tape-recording alleged to have
been made of conversations
between Soviet Air Force
pilots in the air around the
N.Y. “Herald Tribune.
TIME TO REVIVE AN OLD AMERICAN FLAG!
transport immediately before
its disappearance.
In a comment fairly typical
of the U.S. papers to hand,
“New York Times” claims
that the recording “casts new
shadows over East - West
relations”:
“It clearly shows that the
unarmed American plane —
identified as such —was deliber-
ately shot-down by Soviet jet-
pilots acting on orders from
the local Soviet air-command
and taking satisfaction in this
cowardly performance. They
were hailed as heroes by their
commanding general, and
their exploit was extolled in a
paper published by the Soviet
Ministry of Defence. It is
possible that the plane, flying
over Turkey, was purposely
lured across the Soviet Union’s
frontier by false Soviet radio-
signals and set-up as a target
for the Soviet Air Force.
“It may be that the incident
was provoked by a trigger-
happy local air - command
which then reported it as a
mere military exercise without
revealing the target. It may
also be part of a deliberate
Soviet policy to discourage
foreign planes from flying
close to the Soviet Union’s
border.
“In either case the Soviet
Government must accept full
responsibility for the incident.
It is now incumbent on the
American Government to
lodge the sharpest possible
protest, which must include
demands for reparations and
punishment of the guilty,
release of the American flyers
still unaccounted for or sur-
render of their bodies and
guarantees against a repetition
of such outrages. The Soviet
response will provide new
evidence of just what Premier
Khrushchev means by his call
for ‘peaceful coexistence’ and
an end to the cold war.”
These Escaped
From “U.S. News and
World Report”:
“Flight of the ‘elite’ from
Communist East Germany
reached these totals in 1958:
physicians, veterinarians, den-
tists, 1242; lawyers, 75;
teachers, 3089; professors,
208 ; engineers, 2345 ; univer-
sity students, 2522. Since 1954
the East Zone of Germany has
lost 36,933 persons from these
key groups.”
Various Voices
George Kerman : “I believe
that Soviet policy is the product
not of any single mind but of
many; that these are not
always in agreement and that
Soviet policy often represents
a compromise between them ;
that Soviet intentions change as
the world situation develops ;
and that our own actions and
attitudes are an important
determinate of them. With
these reservations, I can say
that I do not believe that the
Soviet leaders want another
major war.”
* * *
Mr. Reginald M audlirig
{Britain’s Paymaster-General):
“The United Kingdom could
not contemplate any system
[economic] with Europe
which was at the expense of
our ties with the Common-
wealth. If it would be bad for
us —it would be bad for the
Commonwealth. I think it
would be a bad thing for the
whole free world if Britain
were ever forced to choose
between the Commonwealth
and Europe.”


He neglected to add what
was uppermost in his mind:
How would the boys take to
her, when the novelty of hav-
ing a stranger in the house
wore-off?
But Gloria, laughing, came
into the room, and behind her,
still talking, were Keith and
Max.
“Are you going to see her
tonight, Keith?”, inquired his
father.
“Sure am. Look —ah —I
don’t mind taking the Singer.
You go ahead and use the
Chev.”
Mr. Pollard’s eyebrows rose.
He squinted. “Well, well . . .
what are you doing, Max?”
Max looked - thoughtful.
“Guess I’ll stay and watch
TV.”
Mr. Pollard got up. “Well,
that’s that. Come on, dear,
I’ll take you to a picture.”
'T'his happy state of affairs
-®- lasted fully three weeks.
No arguments about using the
cars ; both boys polite at all
times.
Gloria had settled in, and
had progressed to cooking the
evening meals. Mrs. Pollard
had nothing but admiration for
her, and gave her husband
detailed reports of her willing-
ness, cheerfulness, apparent
inexhaustibility . . . Mr. Pol-
lard grunted: two things were
becoming noticeable, and his
wife, blinded by the girl’s
virtues, could scarcely be
blamed for overlooking them.
One: Max, who considered
himself a bit of a lad with the
girls, had taken to staying at
home in the evenings. Further,
when Keith had openly offered
the Singer to him, Max had
bluntly said he was tired and
would rather watch TV.
Two: In serving -up the
evening meal, Gloria seemed
to take special pains over
Max’s plate. Always he got
the best baked-potatoes, the
topside slices of beef. At least
that’s what it looked like. And
she was certainly more ani-
mated when Max was around.
Mr. Pollard decided to spare
his wife his suspicions, but he
needn’t have worried ; several
days later Mrs. Pollard re-
marked “Max and Gloria seem
to be spending a lot of time
together. I do hope it won’t
develop.”
The following Saturday
night Mr. Pollard caught them
on the lounge holding hands.
He didn’t say anything: let
sleeping dogs lie; no sense
in stirring-up trouble.
The morning ritual became
almost a luxury for Max. First,
Gloria tiptoed into his room
and woke him. When the tea
was made, Max got a cup in
bed, as did Mr. and Mrs. Pol-
lard. Gradually Gloria ex-
“Well, it Was YOUR idea to Wrap the pennies up!”
tended her favors. Max, re-
turning from Saturday-after-
noon tennis, would throw his
white shorts and shirt on the
bed ; ten minutes later Gloria
would transport them to the
washtub.
Keith, too, was aware of the
situation, and once, once only,
he tried to give his brother
some advice.
“Why don’t you drop her?
Why not get one of your old
girls? But, of course, you just
love being waited on hand and
foot.”
Max got very red. “You
mind your own lousy busi-
ness, Mr. Smart-alec Big
Brother. There’s nothing
wrong with Gloria. We can’t
all have flash girl-friends in
the country.” And he walked
surlily outside.
Mrs. Pollard tried talking to
Max. When that failed, she
took Gloria aside and told her
how very difficult the set-up
was. Gloria merely tossed her
ponytail and smiled. “Dear
Mrs. Pollard! Don’t you worry
a bit.”
Indeed, Mrs. Pollard had to
admit that, apart from this
one annoying facet, the girl’s
work was excellent. Scrubbing,
polishing, cooking, even mend-
ing . . . Max lapped it all up.
Surprisingly, because he was a
man of action, usually getting
his girls the hard way, in com-
petition with his cronies.
Now that everyone knew, he
allowed Gloria to pamper him
in public: it was nothing to
find them curled-up tightly in
front of the TV in the
darkened lounge-room. And
on Gloria’s birthday Max
bought her a pair of shortie
pyjamas which she wore morn-
ing, afternoon and night. Very
short shorties.
TT had reached the stage when
Mrs. Pollard was seriously
thinking of getting rid of her.
Mr. Pollard, not given to
actions of a hasty nature, had
begun to think along the same
lines.
But, miraculously, Max
solved the problem.
Perhaps it was beginning to
bore him, being waited on
every minute he was in the
house; perhaps his adven-
turous instincts were getting
the upper hand ; maybe he just
craved fresh female company.
At any rate, he forsook TV,
the lounge and Gloria one
night and escorted an old
flame to a dance.
Somehow or other it got
back to Gloria. The poor girl
was heartbroken. She re-
doubled her efforts to snare
him, but Max, by now
alarmed, wasn’t having any.
When she came to wake him
in the mornings, a pathetic
figure in short pyjamas, Max
merely grunted and turned
over to the wall, pulling the
bedclothes over his head. Soon
he was openly ignoring her.
Mrs. Pollard sensed the
break, and desperately tried to
make herself more cheerful and
loving. Keith even stayed
home a few nights and played
draughts with her while Max
was out on a date. At first
she was sullen, but after a
while she regained her usual
good spirits. Then, one morn-
ing, she wasn’t there. Her
room was tidy, but the bird
and her luggage had flown.
She had left a note on the
dressing-table:
Thank you for being good
to me. I’ve gone to my sisters
place she runs a shop at Gos-
ford, don't worry about me
because I’ll be O.K.
Gloria.
Somehow, Mrs. Pollard
didn’t have the heart to tele-
phone Matron Burgess. The
girl had been good and had
worked well ; sooner or later,
when the Matron called to
see Gloria, the truth would
come out, but by then Mrs.
Pollard hoped she would be
happily occupied in her sister’s
shop.
Nearly three months later
she received a letter:
Dear Mrs. Pollard, I hope
you are well and Mr. Pollard
and the boys too. I am well
and the shop is doing 0.K.,
you know we sell fresh fruit
and veges here as well as straw-
berries, I wish you could see
them, big as two-bobs. I met
a nice boy here and we are
going around a lot, he is in
the plumbing business, if you
see Matron please tell her l
am well and I hope to come
up and see her some time.
Yours sincerely,
Gloria.
It was curious that Mrs. Pol-
lard, in reading the letter aloud
to her family, was obliged to
interrupt a furious dispute as
to who would use which car
that night.


THE HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY
Sydney's Most
Distinguished Hotel
Newly modernised and decorated
throughout, The Hotel Metropole is
fast becoming Sydney’s smartest and
most fashionable hotel. Right in the
heart of the city, the Hotel
Metropole offers you the comfort
and convenience of Australia’s
largest and friendliest hotel. Over
400 looms all with telephones and
hot and cold water (85 with private
bathroom), luxurious ultra-modern
suites, 6 magnificent entertaining
rooms, swift, efficient room service
and a really fine dining room and
cellar.
Yes, at the Hotel Metropole you’ll
receive truly wonderful hospitality
and service in the traditional
relaxed and friendly atmosphere
that makes the Hotel Metropole
THE place to stay in Sydney.
THE HOTEL METROPOLE
Australia’s Most
Friendly Hotel
B 0522. Box 1601, G.P.O.
reported “all well” in Mel-
bourne.
A fter 18 stormy days they
anchored at Madeira,
where the whole population
turned out to greet them.
On December 2 they left
Pernambuco, where they had
also got a great reception.
Two months later, off Cape-
town, a sudden gale blew them
120 miles to leeward, and most
of that time Jorgensen and his
mate spent goose-winged and
often under water.
On March 1 a pleasure-
boat found them and towed
them into Capetown, where
“Captain Burmeister, the
harbormaster, invited us to
dinner, which we enjoyed very
much, not having sat down to
a decent meal for three
months.”
Between Capetown and
Albany they fought their way
through three rotatory storms
which Jorgensen diagnosed as
cyclones—only a person who
has been in a cyclone, even
on a liner, knows what that
means.
By this time the voyage and
its purpose was thoroughly
known in Australia, and the
navigators got an enthusiastic
reception.
Between Albany and
Adelaide something hap-
pened which filled the soul of
Jorgensen, craving to be tested,
with delight.
One wild night the ship was
hove-to and the two men were
below decks in their cabins
when the Storm King suddenly
turned-turtle, the floor became
the ceiling and water poured in
through a hatch that had been
left open. Both thought they
were done for.
A few minutes later • the
Storm King righted itself,
shook its feathers like a duck,
and went on sailing. Jorgen-
sen concluded that it had been
struck by a tidal-wave or a
sea monster —a whale had
previously paid them a visit of
inspection.
When he told the story at a
civic reception he received in
Adelaide a lot of people
thought it “a cock-and-bull
yarn invented by the gallant
captain to heighten the danger
of the voyage and prove the
stability of the Storm King”—
but a couple of months later
a telegram arrived from Paris
reporting that the Storm King
had been run-down by the
M.M. liner Salazie, and that
the two brave navigators had
certainly perished!
This piece of information
could not have come from
Australia, where their safety
was never doubted. It trans-
pired that the Salazie’s captain
had reported that he had
accidentally rammed the Storm
King and had sent her to the
bottom, and, believing that
rescue in such a sea was
impossible, had sailed on. The
date in the Salazie’s log-book
corresponded with the date
given by the captain of the
Storm King.
T>y this time Jorgensen’s
-*■* invention was floating in
the Adelaide city baths and
being viewed by thousands.
From Adelaide it proceeded
by rail to Melbourne, was put
on show there, and then con-
veyed to Sydney, where it was
exhibited on the site of the old
Central Police Court in George
Street. The “Daily Telegraph”
came out with an ecstatic
leader, which compared its
master with Drake, Vasco da
Gama and Bass, and ranked
him “with the heroes—not
with the simpletons who rush
to a watery grave simply that
their vanity may be gratified
by the publication of countless
sensational paragraphs.”
'T'he rest of the story is soon
told.
In setting sail for Australia
Jorgensen imagined he would
silence all detractors, and that
the Storm King would become
the pattern of the modern life-
boat. If, he argued, I can
prove that my lifeboat can do
what mo other can do ; if for
11 months I endure the horrors
of being' tempest-tossed in the
little vessel, she will commend
herself to all who send ships to
sea.
He evidently knew more
about winds and currents than
he did about officialdom.
The Sydney Marine Board
contemptuously dismissed his
claims, seeming to regard him
as a crank out to make a for-
tune. The Victorian Marine
Board was more sympathetic,
and recommended his inven-
tion to the Minister of Cus-
toms ; unfortunately, he died
and his successor thought
nothing of it.
In June, 1891, Jorgensen
returned to England with his
boat. There he battled very
strongly with the authorities to
have his boat-system estab-
lished, but all to no avail. The
Storm King was refused admis-
sion to a naval exhibition at
which trials of lifeboats were
a feature.
He tried the Shipowners’
Association, but, although
members agreed that the boat
was as wonderful as claimed,
they declined officially to
recognise it, because they
feared that if they did the
Board of Trade might com-
pel them to scrap their ortho-
dox equipment and install
replicas of the Storm King,
with all the- expense that this
would entail.
Jorgensen remarked mildly:
“You don’t mind how much
you spend on machines for
destroying life, but you object
to spending a few pounds on
a machine for saving it.”
Then James Huddart, of
Huddart Parker, who was
fitting out new steamers for
the New Zealand trade, agreed
to install lifeboats modelled on
the Storm King. Jorgensen
was enraptured. Hope had
dawned.
It was promptly quenched
by the Board of Trade. The
board refused to sanction use
of the boat until its inventor
gave better proof of its sea-
worthiness !
Jorgensen, a jolly—or, as he
would have said, “a yolly”
man with a sense of humor,
retorted: “Perhaps you would
like me to make another
voyage to Australia?”
Torgensen gave his boat to a
Norwegian society for sav-
ing life at sea, surrendered all
rights to his invention, and
returned to Melbourne, and
took-up farming at Mordialloc.
He was, however, no farmer,
and after 12 months had to
give-over and return to sea-life.
He joined the Melbourne
Steamship Co. and became
commodore-captain of their
fleet, leaving eventually to
become harbormaster at
Geraldton (W.A.). A son of
his was recently in Oslo, and
made inquiries as to the fate
of the Storm King. The steel
frame had decomposed and
the boat which made this
remarkable voyage to Australia
is now one with the Viking
ships which discovered Green-
land.
“Perhaps, as with the
majority of reformers, Cap-
tain Jorgensen’s invention will
live and be recognised when
he is no more,” one optimistic
prophet had written.
r ately I went down to the
Port Melbourne wharves
and climbed aboard one of the
latest and most luxurious of
modern liners.
There, hanging from their
davits, was the same old string
of open lifeboats, a bit more
streamlined than when I was
a boy. Some of them had
motors in them, and all had
electrical and other labor-
saving devices for hoisting and
lowering.
“The first things to go wrong
when a ship meets with
disaster,” I thought 1 heard
Jorgensen say.
Whether or not the Storm
King was the right answer, his
criticism directed at the life-
boats of 80 years ago still
holds good with regard to the
modern lifeboat.
I remember acutely the
shock of horror that went
round the world when the
Titanic sank and 1500 people
perished, hundreds of them
through exposure in the open
lifeboats.
“If their lifeboats had been
modelled on the Storm King,”
said Jorgensen, “none of them
need have perished.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Selling Australia
One of the chief obstacles
to progress in Australia is lack
of publicity overseas, particu-
larly in the U.S. and Britain,
where it matters most. This
shortcoming is underlined by
visitors to these shores and
Australians returning from
overseas —the latest to empha-
sise it are Hollywood stars
working here on the films “On
the Beach” and “The Doll.”
Research in the U.S. indi-
cates that too much reliance
can be placed on printed pub-
licity. It is pointed out that
such material too often gets
into the wrong hands, is well
placed but not sufficiently
read, and sometimes never even
leaves its disseminating-point.
These findings are supported
by experience in the Geelong
(Vic.) district. Here Chambers
of Commerce and tourist-
development committees have
relied heavily in the past on
brochures and pamphlets,
which, though well illustrated
and documented, have been
almost entirely unsuccessful.
Attention has now been
turned to films. In co-opera-
tion with the Shell Film Unit,
some hundreds of pounds have
been spent on producing a
color documentary of Geelong.
Copies of the film have been
sent to the High Commissioner
and Agent-General in London,
the Australian Embassy in
Washington, and Matson liners
plying between San Francisco
and Sydney. The film is
expected to get better results
than all other publicity media.
If we had a national film
industry the whole of Australia
could be publicised in this way
—as systematically as Holly-
wood publicises the U.S.
Such an industry would need
to be subsidised by the Federal
Government. A start could be
made with semi-documentary
films with stories set in indus-
try —primary and secondary—
and later expanded into
broader fields.
We have the talent, the
resources and a countryside
that is made for films. In
not fostering a film industry
we are missing the best means
of selling ourselves to the
world. Plain Australian
(Vic.).
Compulsory Training
My experience of the old
compulsory military - training
scheme was the reverse of
“Wavy N’s” (B. 4/2/’59) —it
is closer to “E.J.P.’s” (same
issue).
I was in the Fort Street High
School cadet-corps from 1920-
22, and then spent a year in
my local suburban unit, being
rejected (poor eyesight) for the
militia.
Drill was very unpopular in
both units. Not that the lads
were infected with pacifism—•
I encountered scarcely any of
that. It was the uninteresting
methods of drill and the ugly
uniform that we -disliked. The
latter, based on the uniform
of the First A.I.F., was heavy,
uncomfortable, and un-
glamorous. The puttees in
particular were an abomina-
tion. We did not handle
weapons until practically at the
end of the senior-cadet course ;
and only once did I go to
Randwick Rifle Range for
shooting-practice.
The four-hour drills were
hated in the school cadet-corps.
They were always held on
sports-afternoon, and cricketers
and footballers in the school
teams never did any, the drills
being credited to them while
they were playing their games.
But the mass of the school had
to don uniform and drill.
Sometimes we went route-
marching through Petersham —
no joke on a hot afternoon.
In the suburban unit it was
the two-hour drills that
were particularly disliked.
These were held from three
to five on a Saturday afternoon,
thus effectively preventing us
from enjoying sport that day,
either as players or spectators.
Most of us would also have
preferred to do our annual
service by several weeks in
camp, instead of periodical
afternoon drills. Then our
ordinary recreational activities
would not have been interfered
with, for we could have played
cricket and football at the
camps; and we would have
learnt far more in a shorter
time with such continuous
training. Members of a
suburban unit would also have
been able to get to know each
other, and have the oppor-
tunity to develop esprit de
corps —both impossible under
a system where they were only
casually brought together.—
Terry the Tory (N.S.W.).
Science and Religion
“Jas. Macansh” (B. 21 /1 /’59)
and “Pee-Bee” (B. 11/2/’59)
might be reminded of Vol-
taire’s advice to a contem-
porary who wished to start a
new religion: “Well, first have
yourself crucified, then rise
from the dead.” A new religion
would encounter pretty stiff
competition from those already
existing, which give us the
whole moral law, if only we
would apply it.
There are considerable differ-
ences between science and
religion. Science swiftly
changes, is constantly proving
itself wrong, and cannot give
us a standard of conduct other
than the survival of the fittest.
Its chief method is experiment.
Religion, on the other hand,
has its Ten Commandments;
its unchangeable postulates;
and an answer from revelation
concerning the purpose
implicit in each individual soul.
In these things there is little
room for experiment to get at
the truth. The truth is already
there for our learning, accept-
ance and following.
Those who discard the moral
treasures of the past for a
trial-and-error ascertaining of
morals are the bodgies and
widgies of the spirit who pro-
vide us with despicable cults,
not dawn-bright new religions.
In ethics and morals, as
Renan put it, men have long
been in possession of every
good principle: they fail only
in their application.
Both “Macansh” and “Pee-
Bee” seem to think there is a
grievous conflict between
science and religion. This is
a misconception. In any
healthy society the two are
complementary. Some evi-
dence of this is the number of
front-rank scientists who have
been deeply religious men:
Pasteur, Newton, Jeans, Edd-
ington, Einstein, Alexis Carrel,


THE
ROYAL EASTER
SHOW
20th March -31st March, 1959
Don’t miss the greatest spectacle of
the year. At the 1959 Royal Easter
Show you will see our finest
stock on parade, cattle judging,
wood chopping, primary and
secondary industry exhibits and a
feature-packed programme of
special ring events, including
trotting.
Come to the 1959 Royal Easter
Show at the Showground, Sydney.
to DAYS - 8 NIGHTS
“Betcha it is—betcha it's Jack Kramer !”
Sherwood Taylor, Heisenberg,
Millikan and Planck. 1 put
Planck last because this very
distinguished pioneer of new
scientific ideas in our day is
on record as having said only
a few years ago:
Wherever and however far we
look, there is nowhere a contra-
diction between religion and
science to be found: there is, how-
ever, full agreement between them
in the decisive points. Religion
and science do not only not exclude
each other, as some people still
believe or fear, they do, in fact,
supplement and postulate each
other.
—Martin Haley (Q.).
“Jas. Macansh” (B. 21 /1 /’59)
is far too sweeping. I have
never known any responsible
churchman, clerical or lay,
who claimed to have “the
truth, the whole truth, etc.,”
though I admit that too many
do tend to look down on other
faiths. Naturally each believes
his own is best, or he wouldn’t
hold it, but there is a difference
between believing and knowing
which we sometimes overlook.
There has been bitterness
and enmity between the
churches. Not so long ago
most Christians believed it to
be their duty to persecute all
who differed from them on
matters of faith. But we have
come a long way since then,
and there is a large and in-
creasing fund of goodwill,
sympathy and desire for better
understanding in most, if not
all, of the major denomina-
tions. I cite the World Council
of Churches and the British
and Foreign Bible Society (or
counterparts in many other
lands) as instances of true
inter-church co-operation in a
cause which all recognise as
worthy.
But apparently this isn't
enough for “Jas. Macansh.”
He wants unity in the sense
of complete uniformity of
belief and practice. This has
never existed, and is quite im-
possible. Past attempts to
achieve it have hindered under-
standing and caused further
schisms.
The letters of St. Paul show
that he recognised and
approved—that each church
should develop in accordance
with the local genius of its
people, provided always that
by the grace of the Holy Spirit
it kept intact the fundamentals
of the faith and preserved the
bonds of brotherhood with all
other Christian communities.
It is unity in this sense that
we have lost, and must work
to regain. It would mean that
though there were still many
churches, members of any one
would be welcomed as brothers
by any other congregation with
whom their lot might be cast,
and allowed to partake fully
in all its rites. In other words,
full intercommunion is the
goal, but uniformity—never.—
Magnoon (Q.).
Provisional Taxation
Last year there were 1367
bankruptcies in Australia, and
only 26 bankrupts were dis-
charged. This was the highest
number since the depression
year 1930-31. Also, 6351
notices in bankruptcy were
issued —an all-time record. The
main reason appears to be that
many people cannot or will not
pay their income-tax.
About 30 per cent, of
bankruptcies are instigated
by the Taxation Department.
Another 20 per cent, are
sought by debtors themselves
because of taxation commit-
ments. In many of the remain-
ing cases the Taxation Depart-
ment is the only creditor to
collect anything out of the
bankrupt’s estate. No ordinary
creditor is entitled to a penny
until the outstanding income-
tax has been paid in full.
This situation is not alto-
gether surprising under the
system of provisional taxation,
by which a person is taxed
in advance on the assumption
that he will continue to earn at
the same' rate as last year. Many
things can hinder his earning-
rate, including capricious and
arbitrary Government decisions
—for example, the import-
licence system.
Surely the ability-to-pay
theory of taxation should be
replaced by the principle of con-
tribution to revenue in accord-
ance with benefits and services
received. — Fragmos (N.S.W.).
English Now
“D.J.G.” (B. 11/2/’59)
shouldn’t blame teachers alone
for the poor results of students
in senior English exams.
In a world of mass media
dominated by America any-
thing the Yanks choose to do
to English gradually filters
through every part of the
community ; and the U.S. has
decided that English no longer
adequately fulfils its function.
Useful but essentially simple
words have to be elongated
and drowned in a welter of
syllables. After all, why use
a word of two syllables when
you can invent a perfectly good
one with five?
Anyone who left school
more than 10 years ago and
can translate “motivationwise”
deserves a medal. Yet this is
the sort of pretentious, com-
plex and essentially meaning-
less word now being absorbed
by English.
Language must be fluid to
grow, but new words must con-
tribute to the strength of the
language, not to its decay.
Don’t blame the pupil; blame
the language he reads and
hears around him.
Nelson’s stark and classic
message, “England, expects
that every man will do his


duty,” would never have done
for our modern world. Sir
Alan Herbert has translated it
into modem English thus:
“England anticipates that with
regard to the current emer-
gency personnel will duly
implement their obligations in
accordance with the functions
allocated to their respective
age groups”—and that’s fojr
sure, linguistically - wise.—-
Inwyt (Vic.).
The Fishing Industry
Japan’s capture of the Aus-
tralian fishing - market, as
prophesied by “Orang Puteh”
(B. 11/2/’59), is apparently
well under way. The manager
of the Newcastle Fish Markets
estimates that during the past
year Japan exported to Aus-
tralia 25-million lb. of frozen
fish—more than 56 per cent,
of Australia’s total consump-
tion.
Members of Newcastle Dis-
trict Fishermen’s Co-operative
complain that Australian
fishermen can’t compete with
cheap-labor countries such as
Japan. Wholesale price of
Newcastle mullet on the
Sydney market has fallen from
Is. 3d. per lb. a year ago to
an all-time low of 2d. per lb.
Freight from Newcastle to
Sydney is 7s. Id. a 601 b. box.
With commission, cost of box
and ice, the total expenses are
11s. a box to the shipper. Fuel
for trawlers has risen 50 per
cent, in the last year, and cost
of fishing-gear is now about
three times as much as it was.
The position is certainly
desperate for the fishermen,
and with wages and costs con-
tinuing to rise it is difficult to
see when and how their situa-
tion can be improved.
Are the general public get-
ting the benefit of this cheap
fish? Apparently not. Neither
the Japanese frozen fish nor
the fresh fish from Newcastle
is being sold to the Sydney
public at a reasonable price.
Presumably the freight-carriers,
commission-agents and middle-
men generally are reaping the
benefit.
It is hard to believe that
fish for which the Newcastle
fisherman gets only 2d. per lb.
in Sydney cannot be sold to
the public at well under Is.
per lb. No one expects fisher-
men to sell at a loss or at a
marginal profit. The mullet
are apparently landed in
Sydney at 4d. per lb. The
middleman gets the rest.
Where is the cheap frozen
Japanese fish that has forced
the local fresh mullet down to
2d.? The public certainly
doesn’t get it. Fish, frozen or
fresh, is still, as “Orang
Puteh” says, a luxury food. —
Tock Emma (N.S.W.).
N.Q. Coastal Roads
Tourists invariably return
from North Queensland com-
plaining about poor roads and
the armchair plans for an all-
weather road from Brisbane to
Cairns within the next four
years.
Much as we who hammer
our cars to bits on them all
the year round agree about the
roads, it is clear that most
travellers are unaware of the
very high cost of road-con-
struction and -maintenance in
North Queensland. Because of
high rainfall and the great
number of waterways, that
cost is probably higher on the
N.Q. coast than anywhere
else in Australia.
A good example of nigh con-
struction-costs is the eight-
mile stretch of Bruce Highway
between Emu Creek and
Kangaroo Creek on the Pro-
serpine-Bowen road. This
section was recently sealed at
a cost of about £lO,OOO a mile.
Apart from numerous culverts
three bridges are needed. Emu
Creek bridge opened in
October, 1958 cost over
£20,000; Kangaroo Creek
bridge—now under construc-
tion—will be in the same
range; and Yeates’ Creek —
halfway between the two —will
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 529
Across
I—Diary kept by Hansom in a home jn the forest. (3, 5)
s—He5 —He can deal aggressively with bumpers, but he only
22-across with 6-down in their world-record 1-down. (6)
8— Checking Menzies on the stalk. (8)
9 Inter-State legislator and you taking a thousand in
redskin money. (6)
10 — Pale West against an inter-State direction. (3)
11 — Being a seaman, Magellan didn’t go around the ?
Your boy might get the answer at Christmas. (6, 5)
13 — 307 for Collingwood Cricket
Club against the Eyes. (6)
14— Eager to change in accord. (5)
18— No time for a South or West
Australian to work with dis-
orderly poets to bar by law. (5)
19 — Samson wasn't one young
rascal. (6)
22 —Walter put on weight, was in
front, but played the rock. (12)
24 — The republican rocking Sinbad’s
transporter. (3)
25 A famous Sydney musician is no
more than one cuckoo and one
duck. (6)
26 — Do I spoil the clock or watch
of the sea? (8)
27 Laugh to scorn of Gallicised
journey by horseback. (6)
28— Doesn't go forward about
poetry. (8)
Down
1 — Some wagging of the tail equip-
ment for cobbling some pitch
pavilion. (4, 6,5)
2 U.K. city wherein No. 100 is
written in Greek. (8)
3 Furniture freshly ordered by a
Mrs. A. Rich. (9)
4 Tave r n e r’s wicketkeeping
gloves. (6)
5 Why do this greeting in it? (5)
6 Kiss unshipped some pianissimo
with a kiss; but cutting was his
forte. (6)
7 Caesar, Brutus, Coriolanus,
Cassius? You’re looking right
at them now. (5, 10)
12 —Make a humble entreaty to a
N.S.W. country town. (4)
15 — He carelessly chided less than
half a score like hedgehogs. (9)
16— Mother goes after business, but
it leaves one senseless. (4)
17 — Ring composer (not Wagner),
with a corresponding after-
thought, steeps too long. (8)
20 — Angora substance of which a
moustache is made. (6)
21 — Give much satisfaction when
asleep in secret, (6)
23 —Worked as a scribe in the
tower. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 528.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
O'SULLIVAN
rjV PTVLTD Cj
T'ftADET» > * , “ MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
"Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
cost nearer £40,000 to bridge.
In other words, the bitumenis-
ing of the section was only
half the cost involved.
Having built your bridge you
find the elements playing a
game of “You set ’em up, we’ll
knock ’em down”—and there
go the maintenance costs. Here
is a list of bridge damage for
the past three years on 25 miles
of the Pioneer River (including
rail-bridges);
In February, 1956, rail- and
road-bridges at Mirani were
destroyed. In April, 1958, the
emergency rail-bridge was
destroyed; so were the half-
built “permanent” bridge
(having then cost £50,000) and
the low-level road-bridge. The
four road-bridges downstream
from Mirani, including Mac-
kay’s steel-and-concrete Forgan
Smith bridge, were all closed to
traffic for varying periods.
In February this year the
second emergency rail-bridge
at Mirani went, and the new
road-bridge was damaged. The
Hospital bridge at Mackay
has been destroyed and the
Forgan bridge has again sub-
sided. As well as that lot we
have lost several main-road
bridges.
Much as we like a vigorous
programme for bitumen roads,
our first need is for safe creek-
and river-crossings ; providing
these under the conditions
described must interfere with
new-road plans.— Tabba (Q.).
Those Rhymes!
Not so many years ago the
Red Page condemned the
rhyming of “morn” with
No. Not here , Nanook. The Yanks may be looking
at us through the ice.”
“dawn,” claiming that it was
“a Cockney rhyme” (whatever
that might be). Lately, how-
ever, The Bulletin seems to
have become more liberal. On
page 45 of B. 25/2/’59 there
are such atrocities as “road”
and “stood”; “beyond” and
“ground” ; “door” and “sure.”
On page 59 of the same issue
we have “further” and
“either”; “hills” and “heels”;
“droving” and “closing”;
“licence” and “silence.” There
are others, but I’ll finish with
a beaut, “water” and “poplar.”
Has the advent of New Aus-
tralians changed our pronunci-
ation, or has the Bully grown
careless? —W. Jarred (N.S.W.).
Melbourne Trams
“Ardoyne” (B. 11/2/’59) is
right when he labels as
cranks those who suggest re-
placing Melbourne’s trams “at
one fell swoop” with trolley-
buses. The cost would be
beyond the M.M.T.B. in its
present financial state. The
vehicles alone would cost at
least £lO million, and this
would still leave overhead
wiring, alterations to depots,
etc., to be paid for. There
would be no financial return
from all this expenditure, since
the trolley-buses would almost
certainly lose money faster
than the trams.
The “sceptics” are a bit hard
on the Bourke Street trams.
Admittedly they are fairly
noisy in Bourke Street on con-
crete track ; but out at East
Preston, on resilient track, they
would not sound much differ-
ent from trolley-buses. Hence
the idea of using plastic-coated
rail to give resilience.
Not many Australians are
aware that Washington,' D.C.
(U.S.A.), has trams as quiet
as trolley-buses. I have seen
a photograph of one —labelled
“Washington trolley-bus.”
The Melbourne Tramways
Board obtained the Australian
manufacturing-rights for this
type of tram. If it had been
allowed to plough-back some
of its profits (in the days when
it made profits), instead of
being compelled to subsidise
municipal councils, the Fire
Brigades Board and the Infec-
tious Diseases Hospital, Mel-
bourne might already have had
some of these trams. It would
still cost a good deal less to
build enough of them to
silence all except peak-hour
tram-traffic than to go in for
wholesale conversion to trolley-
buses. — Jakipi (Vic.).
Homes for the Aged
The running of most old
people’s institutions seems to
be dictated by the needs of the
frail and chronically ill. The
fitter ones must adapt as best
they can.
The practice of herding
three- or four-hundred ill-
assorted oldsters under the one
roof to await the end is surely
demoralising when the victims
are not given opportunities to
use whatever talents are left
to them.
In a home I visited in Vic-
toria one of the “youngsters,”
a man of about 70, still hale
and hearty after a lifetime on
the goldfields, told me that his
one remaining passion was for
gardening. But institution rules
would not permit him even to
trundle a wheelbarrow.
Others, mainly women, com-
plained that they were not
allowed to do enough for them-
selves, and that in time they
became almost entirely
dependent on the staff. A
sense of uselessness was the
pathetic but common result.
At least some of these
problems would be solved if
those old folk able and willing
to participate were allowed to
form small, self - selected
groups, and were housed in
semi-detached cottages, each
with a plot of land. They could
then do as much for themselves
as they liked. — Permie (Vic.).


If sheep develop a
light brown or cop-
pery coloured skin it
could be a symptom
of copper poisoning or
heliotrope poisoning.
Sheep so affected
should be immedi-
ately moved to an-
other paddock. To
avoid causing danger-
ous wounds which
could be infected by
disease germs graziers
should use Elastrator
Rubber Rings when
marking and tailing
lambs.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
MILKING-MACHINE SERVICING
By W. G. WHITTLESTONE
Co far I have discussed tech-
nical problems connected
with managing the cowshed
and care of the milking-
machine.
Perhaps I have raised more
problems than I have solved,
telling you how an expert
would go about testing your
machine and indicating the
faults he might find in it.
Right through this series of
articles I have stressed the
importance of keeping the
machine in good condition all
the time. But I haven't
answered two questions: Who
will test the machine? and,
more difficult: Who will fix it?
Perhaps before discussing the
problem in Australia I can tell
about some experiences in
New Zealand.
Many years ago, up in the
north of the North Island, a
progressive dairy - factory,
owned co-operatively, started
a service for the machines of
the suppliers. The motto of
the organisation was “Service
Before Sales,” and men doing
the job were expected to look
after the farmer’s interests
first. They moved around the
district servicing machines and
doing on-the-spot repairs
where possible. Back at the
factory there was a good work-
shop where major jobs, like
repairing vacuum-pumps,
could be done.
The organisation became
agents for a particular make of
machine, and this was perhaps
the weak point in the set-up,
particularly as the machine
chosen happened to be a
“vacuum-break” type, about
which there was much con-
troversy. However, several
factories followed this scheme
quite successfully.
Later the Department of
Agriculture trained a number
of farm dairy-instructors in the
use of the then newly developed
testing-equipment which Mr.
Phillips, at Ruakura, was
responsible for. The advent of
simple testing-instruments and
a system of testing put the
business on a firm founda-
tion, and when the depart-
ment’s men made surveys and
found a surprising number of
faulty machines it became
obvious that testing, as it stood
at the time, was hopelessly in-
efficient.
I don’t blame the milking-
machine people for this state
of affairs. The manufacture
and sale of milking-machines
is a highly competitive business,
in which the cost of a sale is
high in proportion to the
value of the article sold.
There are many reasons for
this. An important one is the
great distance the salesman has
to go to contact a prospective
customer. Where sales depend
on hard talking on the farm
sales-costs are inevitably high.
Most machines are sold on the
farm ; it is rare for a farmer to
go to town and decide, after
logical consideration of the
merits of various makes, which
one he should buy. Usually it
is the best salesman who makes
the deal.
Now, once a sale has been
made at great cost there isn’t
much of an incentive to offer
a service which is also ex-
pensive. Again the distance-
problem comes in. In a given
district, of, say, 10 square-
miles, there may be two
Daffodil machines, four
Glorious Vacuum Breaks, one
Painless Wonder, three Omegas
and one Cowshed Bobbydazzler.
Suppose you happen to be
the agent for the Cowshed
Bobbydazzler, and the sole sale
packs-up one morning at 4 a.m.
You have to go seven or eight
miles, to find that to make it
go all that’s needed is oil in
the vacuum-pump.
It just isn’t a profitable deal ;
the cost of time and travelling
even for such a short distance
is so great in relation to the
job that a farmer probably
wouldn’t pay it. And in
Australia the distances are
much greater than in that
example. It is not un-
common for a serviceman
to have to go any distance from
50 miles to 100 miles to fix
some minor fault. No wonder
most of them are out to get
sales at any price ; there isn’t
really any alternative if the
industry is to keep going.
The economic structure of
the milking-machine business is
out-of-date, and this makes for
some unfortunate difficulties.
The advent of testing-gear
hasn’t always been good for
the farmer. I know of instances
where a salesman equipped
himself with the latest
“Ruakura” testing-gear and
arrived on a farm announcing
that he would test the machine.
After a great display of ex-
pertise, he solemnly ran the air-
flow-meter and recording-
gauge over the machine and
announced to the farmer, who
was duly impressed, that the
machine was in a hell of a
state ; in fact, so bad that most
of it required replacing. The
great display of test-gear so
impressed the farmer that a
sale was clinched on the spot.
In a few cases of this sort it
so happened that a Depart-
ment of Agriculture officer
tested the condemned machines
before they were replaced and
found only a few faults which
could have been cheaply
corrected.
In other words, it isn't
enough for experts to design
testing-gear. There is a need
for thought on how to get test-
ing and servicing done for the
farmer’s benefit.
The first point which comes
out of what I have said is
that, because of the great
distances involved, the testing
and servicing organisation
must be able to do all the
machines in a district. If
there are six different makes
this will represent a saving of
about 5 / 6ths of travelling-
expenses. This clearly shows
that the makers or agents of
machines cannot be expected to
supply the service. The agent
for the . Glorious Vacuum
Break could hardly be trusted
to give an impartial opinion on
a Painless Wonder —and vice
versa!
Secondly, the servicemen
should not have an interest in


AUTOMATIC
IRRIGATION
y'
’-M
Mss
(7
xtt
««£•
'S.
••:•• ••
WM>
' ' '
,
' **
tlftl
an entirely NEW conception
in pasture irrigation to give you
CONTINUOUS FODDER PRODUCTION!
Grasslands “Rainline” can provide you with a constantly growing supply of
fodder which may be grazed or cut regularly for greenlot feeding, silage or
lay-making.
It is the most practical and economical method of permanent spray irrigation
yet devised and there’s NO PIPE SHIFTING —no labour at all. A 10-acre
plant needs only 12\ G.P.M. to apply lin. per week. Size, speed and coverage
vary greatly, according to requirements. 40-acre plants are now being
used successfully.
40-ACRE PLANT IRRIGATES 80 ACRES
The “Rainline” may he towed end-on from one site to another. One 40-acre
plant now in use services 2 adjacent 40-acre paddocks alternately.
Close-up of the outer end of a “Rain-
line” showing one of the hydraulic
“water motors” which propel the plant
slowly in a circle. Crawler tracks allow
the plant to mover easily over sodden,
rough or undulating surfaces. The
plant pivots on a fixed water outlet
which is connected by underground
pipe to the pump.
Patents pending 22967/56, 32693/57, 35541/58.
Write or phone for free 16-page booklet:
GRASSLANDS FARMING EQUIPMENT
25-27 Fairfield Street, Villawood, N.S.W. YU 7251
sales. It is only human to
make a machine look really
bad if there is a chance of an
easy sale.
Indeed, perhaps the most
important feature of any
milking-machine service is to
have it so organised that the
chap on the job has an interest
in saving the farmer money,
Even if a serviceman can’t
make sales, there is obvious
temptation to make work for
himself.
So, m my view the testing
and servicing of milking-
machines should be organised,
bv the milk-factories and based
on the factory as the centre.
All operators should hold
certificates issued by the
Department of Agriculture, to
protect factories against
“sharks.” The department is
now offering training in milk-
ing-machine servicing, and
issues certificates of proficiency,
This is a good step forward,
which farmers should support
with enthusiasm.
The men should be on a
salary basis, with a bonus for
the number of machines tested,
Every machine should be done
once a year, and such corn-
ponents as claw-tubes, long-life
inflations, certain pipe joint-
rings, etc:, should be replaced
regularly. Pumps should be
cleaned and tested ; releasers
checked for air-consumption,
capacity and so on, so that
every machine is brought to
normal performance,
j think it is important that
the officers of the Department
of Agriculture shouM be
; d with tes ti„g-g ea r.
T . A
The >; can ,hen do , raore , than
sim P l y carr y ou ‘ ''all,able
survey-work. In the event of
a dispute between a farmer and
a serviceman, the officer can
do a check-test, and so settle
the matter. A farmer may com-
plain that he is not getting a
fair test. We all know the kind
of farmer who would find
trouble with a Rolls - Royce
milking-machine. The story is
familiar: the machine is slow,
the cups won’t stay on, etc.
The trouble is, of course, that
the farmer rough-handles the
cows ; they are upset, kick-off
the cups, hold their milk, and
so on, but in fact there is noth-
ing wrong with the machine.
The serviceman must be
protected from that sort of
thing, and that’s where the
officer from the department
comes in. Often, too, there is
trouble between the maker of
the machine and the farmer.
Again the chap from the
department with his test-gear
can settle the argument.
Finally, I should like to see
at factories servicemen who
could test and service machines,
help with shed-layout problems,
advise on milking methods, and
help the farmer solve his clean-
ing-problems by doing simple
water-tests and recommending
the right detergent for the job.
In the long run such a service
would pay everyone hand-
somely ; all machines would be
efficient, production would
increase and all the cows would
be happy.
Achievement
“Desert Conquest,” a short!
(27min.) documentary color-
film, tells the story of the Aus-
tralian Mutual Provident
Society’s land - development
scheme in South Australia and
Victoria. With the co-opera-
tion of the two State Govern-
ments, and helped by the
research of the C.5.1.R.0., part
of the area formerly known as
the Ninety Mile Desert (S.A.)
—now renamed Coonalpyn
Downs —and a smaller portion
of the “Big Desert” over the
Victorian border, have been
transformed from useless,
undeveloped land into pros-
perous farms.
The film itself is technically
tip-top, and the story stimu-
lating. It shows each detail
of the tremendous work done in
research, provision of trace-
elements lacking in the soil,
clearing, pasture-improvement
and, finally, establishment and
settlement of the area. The men
who enlisted in the project, did
the work of development and


eventually bought the land
were specially selected. The
job they did is a great credit
to them and to the A.M.P.
Society, which launched the
scheme. The whole project
called for imagination and
financial courage.
The film will presumably be
shown overseas as well as
throughout Australia. For
that reason the title may
possibly be misleading. To
anyone who does not know
what the Ninety Mile Desert
looks like, clothed with mallee
and broombush, it might seem
as if the achievement loses
some of its point. This is no
“treeless, waterless waste” (as
the dictionary defines a desert)
and, in fact, most of the
country overlays good stock
water at depths ranging from
15ft. to 200 ft. In many
localities a sub-artesian basin
is tapped. If it might be sug-
gested “Conquest of Nature,”
“Scrubland Conquest” or just
plain “Conquest” might be
more descriptive. For this is a
story of achievement of which
any country could be proud.
R. G.
Trees for Profit
“Sevenelms”: “Pieter Nuyts’s”
item (B. 28/l/’59) provides
food for thought, but is
dendrologically indigestible.
He recommends that timber-
growing plantations should be
used also to shelter sheep, and
suggests that matchstick-wood
could be planted with profit
and that soil unsuitable for
other crops should be used for
tree-planting.
All successful tree-growers
agree that the “wood-lot” must
be the best-fenced on the farm,
and that no beasts should have
access to it. Australian match-
manufacturers would consider
only black Italian-poplar, a fast-
growing cousin of Popu-
lus tremula, the aspen-wood
of the imported “splints” that
are used for making all Aus-
tralian matches today. This
black poplar ( Deltoidece ) de-
mands a rich alluvial soil, plus
ample water.
Aerial Sowing
“Big Billy”: Aerial sowing
of linseed can be effective, as
long as the ground is well
harrowed just before or after
seeding. It’s useful where land
cannot be sown by conven-
tional methods because of wet
weather.
Near Warncoort (Vic.), a
medium-weight tractor travel-
ling fairly fast was used to
drag a light set of harrows
over most of the paddock after
seeding. Weak patches in the
crop are probably due to the
difficulties of making a com-
plete job of the harrowing
rather than to faulty distribu-
tion of seed.
After calculating the drift
of seed due to air-currents and
obstructions caused by trees
and power-lines, the best fly-
ing-height under total condi-
tions was found to be 50ft.
This was determined by count-
ing the number of seeds
dropped on marked sheets
spread on the ground. The
degree of overlay needed by
successive flights was also
shown by these seed-counts.
Bunchy-top
“Musa”: Some years ago an
embargo was placed on the
growing of bananas around
Brisbane, to prevent bunchy-
top spreading to North Queens-
land. With the disease under
control, anyone wishing to
grow the fruit can now obtain
a permit from the Agricultural
Department—but only lady’s-
finger plants may be grown, and
five stools are the limit for
each household.
Bunchy-top is caused by a
virus, not by a fungus or bac-
terial parasite. It is easily
recognised, since young leaves
turn light-green along the edge,
with blades dipping sharply
back from the rib and curving
in again from the margin. To
make sure whether a plant is
infested hold the youngest leaf
to the light, and examine its
base. If it’s diseased there will
be narrow dark-green lines,
broken in dot - and - dash
manner, lying parallel to the
clear veins, which run at right
angles from the rib.
The disease is spread by the
banana-aphid, which sucks
virus-infested sap from the
affected plant and carries it to
a healthy one when it settles
to feed. The infection travels
down the sap-stream into the
corm and from there into the
young suckers.
Bunchy-top cannot be con-
trolled by spraying. Destroy
all aphids on a diseased plant;
pour at least ipt. of pure
kerosene into the central leaf
and all others in the same stool,
and leave for a few hours. The
entire stool should then , be
dug out by the roots, cut into
small pieces and burnt.
Coffee
“Narea”: All Australia’s
eastern coastal belt from Cape
York to the Clarence River
(N.S.W.) is ideal for the coffee-
tree. Actually, experiments in
coffee-growing have been
carried on for almost a
century: in 1901 over 500 acres
were under the crop in Queens-
land (in the Cairns, Mackay,
Maryborough and Buderim
districts), and many small
trials were made as far south
as the Richmond River
(N.S.W.).
For many years coffee was
manufactured in Mackay from
beans produced locally. Its
quality was excellent, and it
found a ready sale in northern
towns. Chinese were employed
to pick the berries and
separate beans from the pulp.
However, high cost of produc-
tion gradually crippled the
industry, which could not com-
pete with cheap native labor
in other countries. Today only
a few acres are still in cultiva-
tion, mostly around Cairns.
(Many hundreds of coffee-
trees are, however, grown in
Brisbane, the beans being
prepared, roasted and ground
by householders. The trees
thrive there, and are orna-
mental, with their dark-green
leaves, white flowers and dark-
red berries.)
The coffee-tree (which
originated in Arabia, where the
world’s best coffee is produced)
is now grown in most tropical
and sub-tropical parts of the
world. It grows quickly, reach-
ing a height of from 12ft. to
20ft., according to the richness
of the soil and the humidity of
the climate. A light crop is
produced when the tree is two
years old, and each year it is
more prolific. White flowers
are borne on short stems along
the branches, followed by
green berries which turn dark-
red when ripe. The outside
pulp is separated by machinery
and the beans dried. Husks
must be removed before roast-
ing.
The tree will thrive in most
well-drained soils. Rich, moist
soil will produce more and
bigger berries than light, drier
soil, but the flavor will not be
so rich. Farmers in the inland
districts of Queensland might
well experiment with coffee as
a crop the climate there
should suit it perfectly.
The tree is easily raised from
seed, and transplants readily.
Plant with about 20ft. each
way between trees, to allow
room for pickers. If possible,
give the trees a position where
they will be shaded from the
afternoon sun —say, by a row
of taller trees.
Rust-free Wheat
“MacMuirick”: An old
hand from Dubbo tells how
he managed to grow rust-free
wheat from 1915 to 1946—by
the simple expedient of sow-
ing east and west!
The wheat, he says, then has
a good chance of drying-out
before the full force of the sun
hits the crop at midday.
He has received encouraging
letters from the N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture.
Experts seem to think his idea
worth a trial.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(26/2/’59)
Most of Queensland can expect heavy rains and flood-
ing during March, although rainfall may be patchy in the
far south-west areas. Serious flooding is likely on the central
and north coasts and the central-west and south-west areas.
Good rains should occur in a large part of the State during
April.
Rainfall may vary from moderate to good on the coast
of N.S.W. during March, with best falls around Port Mac-
quarie and from Sydney southwards. The rest of the State
may receive only patchy rains below average. General
rains are indicated in April, with heavy falls on the central
and mid-north coastal districts and part of the Hunter River
Valley.
Good general rains are indicated in Victoria during
March, with best falls in the central western divisions. Rain-
fall may be patchy during late autumn and winter.
Rainfall may be poor in South Australia during March,
although moderate rain is indicated in the central and south-
east districts and Murrtiy Valley.
The north-east. and south-east divisions of Western
Australia should receive good rains during March, but
rainfall may be poor elsewhere. Reasonably good seasonal
rains should start in the agricultural areas during May.
LENNOX WALKER.


Giant Sensitive-plant
“North”: The giant sensitive-
plant (Mimosa invisa) is worry-
ing sugarcane-growers in
North Queensland, where it is
constantly being found in new
localities.
The plant was first noticed in
the Tully area in 1948, and
C. T. White (Government
botanist of that time), declared
that it was the most potentially
dangerous plant - pest ever
introduced to a tropical
country. The warning went
unheeded for several years,
while the plant became firmly
established in several areas. It
is a rapid-growing, prickly
climber, which takes possession
wherever it appears. Round
Innisfail it climbed over trees
20ft. high, and smothered
several 40-ton crops of sugar-
cane. Permanent pastures are
ruined, because the spiny plant
prevents stock from grazing
over the land. It is now
flourishing in areas about
South Johnstone, Mourilyan,
Ingham, and south to Proser-
pine, Sarina and Mackay.
The seed, small and prolific,
is widely spread by being
carried in mud on tyres of
motor-cars and trucks. Timber-
carting and the movement of
heavy hauling-equipment are
also blamed for distribution.
During heavy rains the seed
is washed into creeks and
rivers and lodges along the
banks, where it germinates.
Farmers about Mourilyan,
doing concrete work on their
properties, obtain their sand
and gravel from the beds of
the watercourses, so the pest
is found growing almost every-
where the materials have been
used. Originally introduced in
imported seed of centrosema, a
valuable perennial legume for
permanent pasture, the pest has
appeared in most paddocks
where this has been sown, and
in many instances has taken
possession.
The Government recently
took steps to eliminate the pest.
It has been declared a noxious
weed throughout the State, and
landholders and shire-councils
in infested areas have been
ordered to destroy all sensitive-
plant growing on properties
under their control. For this
purpose, weedicides are de-
livered to the nearest railway-
station at manufacturer’s cost.
Pentapine, the most effective
preparation to use, should be
applied at 41b. an acre in suffi-
cient water to wet the plants
thoroughly. The Agricultural
Department has prohibited the
sale of centrosema-seed contain-
ing the pest, and all imports
must be examined by its officers
before they are allowed to
enter the State. In the Jo"hn-
stone and Cardwell shires, two
gangs have been employed for
some months, hand-pulling
small infestations and spraying
large patches of the pest.
Marker-posts are erected on
these spots, which are kept
under observation to prevent
reinfestation.
Lambing Percentages
“Sundowner”: Trials held at
Ruakura (N.Z.) over the last
10 years on lambing-per-
centages in breeding Romneys
“Would you accept a ring from me ?”
show that fertility can be im-
proved by selective breeding.
Results also emphasise that
those starting an improvement-
programme must not expect an
immediate dramatic increase in
the lambing-percentages of
their flocks, but be content
with steady gains over several
years.
L. R. Wallace, who con-
ducted the tests, stresses that the
significant factor in calculating
lambing-percentage is the
effective figure found by
dividing the number of lambs
docked by the number of ewes
mated. This figure is affected
by the percentage of ewes
which fail to lamb, the
numbers of lambs produced
per head by ewes which do
lamb, and the deathrate before
docking among lambs pro-
duced.
Wallace says it’s important
that two-tooths (which figured
prominently in the Ruakura
experiments) should be well
grown and the remainder of the
ewes in fairly good condition
before the rams are turned-
out, if good percentages are to
be obtained.
Results at Ruakura suggest
that it is poor practice to
overdo the process of starving
the condition off ewes after
weaning, particularly if there’s
a danger that as the breeding-
season approaches the ewes
may have to be shut-up and
fed short rations as a pre-
caution against diseases such as
facial eczema, which they are
prone to get at this stage.
Dry two-tooths, Wallace
points out, were generally
found to be of three kinds:
those which are completely
infertile ; those which are
partly infertile by nature ; and
those which fail to lamb
simply because of the way
they have been treated. They
should, therefore, be given a
second chance to mate at the
four-tooth stage. In a few dry
two-tooths there is likely to be
a high proportion either sub-
fertile or completely sterile, and
the sooner these are culled the
better.
Summer Fodders
“Sundowner”: When using
summer fodders begin grazing
at the right stage of growth for
each particular crop ; until the
crop is ready for grazing, feed
hay, grain or silage. Ration
the grazing, providing some
kind of roughage for stock all
the time the crop is being
grazed, and remember to
protect the fodder against
insect-pests.
In using summer-fodder
crops it’s important to remem-
ber that although they are
summer-growing, they won’t
give maximum fodder in mid-
summer, without irrigation or
good summer rains. They are
not complete in themselves,
either. To make the most of
these protein-rich crops carbo-
hydrates are needed, in the
form of hay or dry pasture.
Generally speaking, rape
and millet are best grazed in
December and January.
Turnips will provide feed
through autumn and early
winter, while chou moeliier
will go through from late
summer to late winter. The use
of these crops should be dove-
tailed into the supplementary
feeding-programme.
The first point to watch
when starting to graze a
summer-fodder is to use the
picking for stock most in need
of green-feed, such as weaners,
ewes irt lamb, ewes for flush-
ing before mating, and cows
in milk or about to calve.
Hungry stock should never be
allowed onto these crops,
because there’s risk of scour-
ing or bloat.
The next point is stage of
growth. Rape must be quite
mature, but millet can be
grazed when 6in. to Sin. high,
and chou moeliier‘at any time.
Turnips are best grazed in
strips. Since both rape and
chou will taint milk, cows
should be grazed immediately
after milking, and removed not
less than six hours before milk-
ing, with the grazing-period
varied between |hr. for
irrigated crops to 2hr. on dry-
grown turnips.
To protect crops against red-
legged earth-mite and lucerne-
flea apply D.D.T. a week after
sowing, or lindane mixed with
super, and broadcast after sow-
ing. D.D.T. can be used against
cutworms, and malathion
against -cabbage-aphis and
cabbage-moth.
In establishing any of these
crops try to sow in spring,
when there is less chance of
competition from weeds.


KITCHING'S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
IVrite for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
Tbe Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l hBs. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin" or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Want#
To buy Two Cheers for Demo-
cracy, by E. M. Forster. —6801.
Copy of Handy Hints for the
Farm. —6802.
Information about J. Stanley,
concertina-maker, of Bathurst; to
buy, examine or photograph Stanley
concertinas. —6800.
To buy a recording of Schumann’s
Dichterliebe, sung by Lotte
Lehmann accompanied by Bruno
Walter. Any copies of Lehmann
singing lieder on 78 r.p.m. records.
—6799.
Information Sought
(1) How to store apples and pears
for winter use ? (2) Method of
making both apple- and pear-cider ?
(1) Find a cool, airy room or a
cool loft, with not much light. The
fruit should be carefully hand-
picked, and no damaged or blem-
ished fruit should be stored. Put
it on shelves lightly covered with
straw, or very dry, clean paper;
the fruits must not touch. Examine
as used —any which show signs
of shrinkage or spoiling should be
taken out first. Fruit may be
packed in sawdust or shavings in
barrels, although in this case it
is difficult to inspect. Some types
keep better than others; the late
varieties are usually best for
storage.
(2) Apple-cider and perry from
pears are both made by almost the
same process; but the fruit used
is usually grown specially for the
purpose. Good drinks may be made
with a mixture of apple varieties,
but for perry the pears should b'e
of one kind only, preferably harsh
and sour. Here’s the process for
both apples and pears: place sound,
quite ripe fruit in a wooden or
enamel tub and crush thoroughly.
Collect juice and put in an open
tub or cask, allowing to ferment
in a cool room. As soon as fer-
mentation begins, pour the juice
into a cask almost up to the bung-
hole, leaving the bung out. Fer-
mentation will proceed; when it
froths, wipe off the spume with
a spoon. When the liquid settles,
transfer it to a clean cask and drive
the bung in tightly. It will then
be ready for use or for bottling.
Improves with keeping.
* * * *
Brief information on the old sun-
downers ?
The Australian Encyclapcedia
describes the “sundowner” as a
type of bush-wanderer who made
a habit of approaching a home-
stead at dusk with an appeal for
work, and, work not forthcoming,
got free rations of flour, mutton
and tea. The “sundowner” is dis-
tinct from the “swagman,” who
carries a swag while tramping
country roads, often in search ot
casual or seasonal work. The habit
of giving “hand-outs” to sun-
downers persisted long after the
days of economic stringency —
though with reservations. The sun-
downer’s distinguishing habits,
besides that of his sundown
approach to a station, were, as
given by the Australian Encyclo-
pcedia, “avoidance where possible of
hill-climbing; restlessness; solitary
habits; a methodical walk; reluct-
ance to work; and reluctance to
camp at a spot for more than one
night.” People in lonely areas were
often pleased to see him, as he
invariably had a stock of yarns to
exchange for hospitality. But he
was not always so welcome; hence
John Shaw Neilson’s verdict, in his
“The Sundowner” —“A rare old
humbug all the time.” The sun-
downer flourished mainly in the
1880’s and 1890’s, and vanished as
settlement and communications
increased.
* * * •
Details of the national fishing-
contest to be held in May ?
The contest, organised by Ampol
Petroleum, Ltd., in conjunction
with the Grafton Brewery, will be
held from May 9 to 17, and there
will be prizes worth more than
£20,000. Fifty tagged bream will
be released, one of which will carry
a tag worth £15,000. Apart from
the tagged-fish prize more than
£5OOO in prizes must be won in
other sections. Prizes include a
Standard Super Ten motor-car, a
television-set, refrigerators, radios,
boats, furniture, cameras, clothing,
sporting-equipment, etc. There are
special sections for women and
children. All proceeds will go to
Legacy.
* * * *
(1) Information on haemophilia ?
(2) Was there haemophilia in the
Russian Royal Family ? (3) Is
Anastasia the daughter of the last
Tsar ? (4) If so, would she transmit
the disease to her son ?
(1) With haemophilia the blood is
incapable of clotting, and the
simplest cut or bruise may cause
dangerous bleeding. Modern science
has not yet solved the riddle of
its cause and prevention. An
affected man never transmits the
complaint directly to his children,
but all his daughters (and, on
average, half his sisters), although
healthy themselves, will hand the
defect on to half of their sons.
Medical history records only a
handful of women sufferers. The
disease in some families may remain
dormant in female “carriers” for
generations. (2) Yes. (3) There’s
no conclusive proof. (4) She
would not necessarily be a “carrier,”
as the Tsar was not a haemophiliac,
and, even if she were, her son
would not necessarily be a victim.
(The Tsar’s son Alexis, who was
among those murdered in 1917,
was a haemophiliac.)
Brief Answers
T.X.R.: (1) Possibly an invalid
pension. Contact the Department
of Social Services. (2) Provided
you do not earn more than £209 a
year. (3) Home, furniture and per-
sonal effects do not count in esti-
mating property. (4) This is also a
question you should take-up with
the department. (5) Depends both
on the property and income ques-
tions... .W.G.D.: You certainly
had a perfectly good action against
the trustee at one stage, but you
may have waited too long. It
depends on when you found out
about the sale. See your solicitor
about taking action X.X.: A
simple and effective hoof-dressing
for horses can be made by melting
down and mixing together equal
quantities of tallow and Stockholm-
tar J.H.: (1) £227 10s. per year,
plus an allowance of £1 15s. a week
to a wife if she is not in receipt
of any other pension. (2) Yes.
The pensioner may have £lB2 a year
and receive a full pension, reducible
until the other income reaches £7
10s. a week when no pension is
payable. A pensioner may have
property to the value of £209 apart
from his home, furniture and per-
sonal effects. (3) Such illness as
will completely and permanently
prevent him from earning money.
(4) Certainly not if the person died,
probably not if he committed
suicide. One of the things a surety
is supposed to do is prevent people
from committing suicide. (5) If a
person had £12,000 and lost it on
the races, whether or not he received
a pension would be a matter to
be decided by the Department of
Social Services. (6) The Scullin
Government reduced the old-age
pension by 2s. 6d. to 17s. 6d. a
week in 1931. In 1932 the Lyons
Government reduced the rate to 15s.
if the pensioner had an income of
not less than 2s. 6d. a week. The
Lyons Government removed this
provision in 1933 and by 1937
restored the maximum rate of pen-
sion to the 1925 level of 20s. a
week D.H.D.: Veneers are
usually very thin, and will not
tolerate the treatment required for
this job, as stains and surface-
finish have penetrated the wood.
You’d have to remove surface
coloring by scraping or sandpaper-
ing, a rather hard method for the
amateur. See a furniture-restorer
or cabinet - maker... .E.J.M.W.:
Try a bookshop for some of the
many books on card-games, notably
those by or on Hoyle, as well as
books on home hobbies. If you are
close to a city library, consult the
librarians. Again, a purveyor of
games-boards would no doubt allow
examination, if you explained that
you wanted to make one. The
board is indented with 33 or 37
hemispherical hollows, with the
same number of balls or marbles.
An unoccupied hollow is left by
removing one ball, the balls being
then captured as in draughts: no
diagonal directions are allowed, or
moves over more than one space
at a time... .R.M.8.: The Geologi-
cal Society of Australia was formed
in 1951 for the advancement of the
geological sciences. There is a
division in each State, and one for
the Commonwealth Territories;
divisions and branches meet regu-
larly, and plenary meetings of the
society, for elections and other
constitutional activities, are held at
intervals of not more than two
years, normally in conclave with the
Australian and New Zealand Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of
Science. The society publishes the
“Journal of the Geological Society
of Australia” each year, and a bi-
yearly news-bulletin for members.
V.G.W., “Possum,” H.J.M.: Un-
able to find words of those poems.


New Recordings
Four Stereo Releases
There are two ways of
listening to stereophonic
records: the professional
method, in which you carefully
separate the speaker-cabinets,
twiddle with bass, treble,
balance and volume controls,
and exult at castanets springing
out of space ; and the casual
method, where you simply put
the record on, sit back and
listen.
Whichever way you choose
(there is, of course, the entirely
desirable composite method, a
mixture of science and care-
freeness), four new disks illus-
trate something of the spatial
effect and the increased depth
of sound possible with stereo.
In Pop Stereo Sampler
(SKLA 4005) the Decca engi-
neers have achieved first-class
reproduction. The only criti-
cism is of the choice of subject-
matter. On the first side is a
selection from “My Fair Lady”
—obviously modelled on the
Julie Andrews and Rex Har-
rison original release. The Bev-
erley Sisters sing “Wouldn’t it
be loverly?” (essentially a solo),
and you miss Julie Andrews’s
inspired pronunciation. They
err chiefly by making the song
too “nice”: the occasional
Cockneyisms are studiously
accented.
Other selections range from
the drum-rattling robustness of
“With a Little Bit of Luck,”
with The Stargazers singing
about likker and temptation,
to “I Could Have Danced All
Night,” with Diane Todd in
fine voice. One would like to
hear a stereo release of the
original “My Fair Lady” disk.
On the reverse, Mantovani,
Ted Heath, Edmundo Ros and
others present “Great Film
Themes”: a valuable collec-
tion, vsince all the maestros are
craftsmen in their fields (Man-
tovani’s tumble of shimmering
strings, for instance, or Ted
Heath’s brass effects) and,
especially in “Bewitched,”
from the film “Pal Joey,” there
is plenty of stereo broadness.
Another Decca release, Just
for You (SKLA 4015), has
Cyril Stapleton and his orches-
tra churning-out light music—
efficient, if at times a trifle
noisy. Most of the numbers
are old favorites from around
the 1920’s—such songs as “Tell
Me Tonight,” “Charmaine”
and “For Me and My Gal.”
The record is useful as a
memory-reviver; the sound
throughout is excellent.
Capitol has reissued, in
stereo, the soundtrack of
the Rodgers - Hammerstein
The King and I (SW 740) ; the
first thing you notice is that
the surface is slightly woolly,
although this isn’t so notice-
able on the reverse side. The
music hasn’t the same imme-
diate charm of “Oklahoma!”
or even “Carousel,” but is
tuneful enough to suggest that
it will be with us for some
time. One of the most striking
tunes is the “March of the
Siamese Children,” all Oriental
glitter and fake pomp, and
the rolling “Shall We Dance?”
Selections from South
Pacific (ST 992), another
Capitol release, is Rodgers and
Hammerstein again. Fred
Waring and the Pennsylvanians
pick their way through the
tunes ; the first bass soloist in
“Honey Bun” seems to be
overloaded with orchestra, and
“There is Nothin’ Like a
Dame” is overstated, though
not unpleasantly so. Some of
the sound, as in “Bali Ha’i,”
is crystal-clear.
❖ ❖
Olivier Reads Stevenson
In a Robert Louis Stevenson
Album (Decca LKA 4254) Sir
Laurence Olivier reads twQ con-
densed stories: “The Suicide
Club” and “The Strange Case
of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde.”
A curious double: “The
Suicide Club” is mid-Victorian
in the narrowest sense of the
term, full of plush curtains,
hansom-cabs and weird literary
furniture ; “Jekyll and Hyde”
has ceased to be a “strange
case” and, away from the
superb storytelling, survives as
a macabre oddity—these days
one isn't much impressed by a
personality that needs a drug
to split it.
Olivier presents the stories
with an eye to gripping his
listeners. Since there is an
orchestra in the background
and since Olivier is assisted by
“effects,” this is more a stage-
production than a straight
reading. No other actors are
mentioned ; so it must be
assumed Olivier takes all parts
—quite a triumph for both
Sir Laurence and the recording
engineers.
The orchestra is cleverly
used, adding point to a remark
and increasing tension by
tremolo simmerings. Perhaps
the most exciting moment in
“The Suicide Club” is the card-
dealing scene. You hear the
“slap” of dealt cards, and the
nervous voices of the recipients
as they declare.
In “Jekyll and Hyde” Olivier
pulls no punches. Not for the
squeamish, this —the scream of
the girl trampled by Mr. Hyde
is guaranteed to work on the
spine. So is the final scene,
where the doctor becomes Mr.
Hyde and can’t change back
again and, as the door is being
battered down, destroys him-
self and his secret. Again, the
orchestra and effects are first-
rate.
“ When I Was your age We Wore proper togs and did not
refer to sheilas as slick-chicks .”
Kogan Plays Paganini
Beautiful playing and record-
ing have gone into this
Columbia release (33 CX 1562):
two Paganini works, played by
violinist Leonid Kogan with
the Orchestra de la Societe des
Concerts du Conservatoire,
conducted by Charles Bruck.
Kogan has more than a
trace of Arthur Grumiaux’s
intonation and Heifetz’s pre-
cision. His tone is, one feels,
a little cool, but time and ex-
perience might easily cure that.
Tn the Violin Concerto
No. 1 the first movement, an
allegro mcestoso, is pretty
standard stuff, although after
an extensive lead-up, with
timpani dotting the scene like
bottlebrushes, a rich little
theme emerges—far more sub-
stantial than the comparatively
tinpot primary theme in a
later concerto (the Fourth,
in D Minor)! An orchestral
cadence, and then the soloist
springs in, bravado, in typical
headlong runs and passages in
thirds. Soon the first theme
reappears, and in the second
solo statement (in the alto)
Kogan achieves broad singing
tone. A few bars on, the leap-
ing arpeggio to a stratospheric
ledger - line note is done
brilliantly.
One can’t blame Paganini
for expanding such a lovely
theme, but the first movement
is really too long—there is a
limit to one’s reverence for
showy invention. That limit
had just about been reached
when it was time to turn the
record over, in order to hear
an adagio espressivo, which
Kogan handles really well, not
too flippantly, but not too
seriously either; then the
pirouetting rondo, with the
soloist tossing - off semi-
staccato phrases as easily as
one would play a five-finger
exercise. Admittedly, the
horn-fifths section is perhaps
not so confidently played as
the rest; but that merely makes
the final offering—a separate
work, Cantabile, Op. 17—
all the more appealing.
An exquisite short album-
piece for solo violin and piano,
this recalls in its general
pattern Schubert’s “An die
Musik.” Brightness and
warmth shine throughout, and
here for a few minutes you
can forget the tumbling pyro-
technics of the preceding con-
certo. An unusual side to the
popular Paganini ; and it is
reassuring to learn that he can
throw away double-stoppings
and passages in sixths and
write something as pure and
unvarnished as Corelli.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
The Comedy Theatre’s premiere of
“Roar Like a Dove,” in which Googie
Withers and her husband John Mc-
Callum star, was a brilliant affair. Sir
Frank and Lady Tait were in the audi-
ence, and entertained at a large supper-
party in the foyer after the show. Mrs.
L. R. Buxton was smart in a short black
taffeta frock, and one of the loveliest
frocks seen was worn by Senator Ivy
Wedgwood, who was with her husband
and Mrs. Maie Hoban. It was short
and of black pure-silk, the bodice heavily
embroidered in a beaten-gold design.
Over it the Senator wore a short black-
silk-tissue stole, also embroidered in
gold. Commander and Mrs. C. F. H.
Green were accompanied by their
daughter Caroline, whose white satin
frock was printed in tiny pink roses.
Robert Helpmann had his mother and
sister Sheila with him, and Margaret
Bolton, pretty in a white theatre-coat
printed in a pink-rose design, was
escorted by Laurence Hodgkinson. Three
pretty girls together were Sandra Pizzey
in white tulle and rose-pink stole,
Beverley Strong in royal-blue taffeta and
white stole, and Caroline Purbrick, whose
white taffeta frock had a blue-satin hem
to match her satin stole. Mrs. Neil
Rogers wore a lovely sheath-frock of
white French re-embroidered lace, and
Mrs. Betty Alcock’s smart frock was of
black guipure-lace.
☆ ☆ ☆
Just announced is the engagement of
attractive Diana Laurens and David
Jones. Diana, who is the elder daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. George Laurens, of
Toorak, was educated at St. Catherine's.
She is an excellent tennis-player and
represented the University in inter-varsity
tennis. David, who is an old Wesley
Collegian, is the younger son of Mr.
and Mrs. Angus Jones, of Toorak. Diana
is wearing a diamond-solitaire ring, and
plans are being made for a wedding at
St. John’s, Toorak, in February of next
year. Later in the month, Mr. and Mrs.
Laurens will entertain many friends at
a cocktail-party to celebrate the engage-
ment.
☆ ☆ ☆
Although heavy rain had fallen the
night before, the garden-party at Govern-
ment House was held in fine weather,
though without sunshine. But the 5000
guests enjoyed the party, even though
high heels did get stuck in the sodden
lawns. Lady Brooks, as usual, looked
charming. She chose a pretty garden-
party frock in pale-blue flower-patterned
nylon. It was buttoned down the front,
and the skirt featured fine knife-pleats.
Her wide-brimmed hat was of layers of
pale-blue organza, banded with match-
ing velvet and finished with two pink
roses on the brim.
Mrs. Bolte, who was in the official
party, wore a loosely cut jacket-
suit in cornflower-blue taffeta topped with
a cap of lighter-blue feathers. The Lady
Mayoress (Mrs. F. W. Thomas) looked
attractive in a tobac-brown faille frock
and full length coat. Her hat was just
a wreath of brown-and-white petals.
There, too, Lady Manifold, wearing a
frock of white silk coin-spotted in black.
Her toque was of white and pastel-pink
organdie carnations. With her was
daughter Sally, who chose a white-and-
pink printed cotton-frock and a white
curvette. Mr. and Mrs. J. O’Driscoll
had with them their daughter, another
Sally, whose white cotton frock was
printed in pink-blue-and-grey design and
topped with a curvette of white and blue
flowers.
Sandra, elder daughter of Sir William
McDonald (Speaker of the Legislative
Assembly ) and Lady McDonald, will
marry tomorrow {Thursday), at Toorak
Presbyterian Church, James Robert
Morrison, eldest son of Mrs. J. R.
Morrison, of Terang, and the late Mr.
Morrison. In attendance on the bride will
be her sister Jacqueline, Wendy McMillan
and Serena Songster, and flower-girl
Jacqueline Bryant. Reception will be held
at Menzies. Sandra was educated at
Toorak College and the bridegroom at
Geelong College.
Several Americans were among the
guests invited to a Town Hall reception
by Lord Mayor Thomas and the Lady
Mayoress to meet Rear-Admiral George
J. Dufek, U.S.N., and Mrs. Dufek. Large
bowls of autumn-leaves mixed with bright
pink belladonna-lilies and multicolored
gladioli decorated the reception-room.
Mrs. Thomas chose a graceful sheath
frock of teal-blue angora, with a match-
ing leaf-curvette highlighted with brilliant
scarlet berries. Mrs. Dufek's high-
crowned cloche of velvet in biscuit
tonings banded in olive-green had a
fluted brim and was worn with a frock
of vellum cotton patterned with fine
pastel stripes. On the dais were Minister
for Forests Alex Fraser and Mrs. Fraser,
she wearing a frock of deep dusty-pink
angora with a matching cloche. U.S.
Consul-General Graham Hall and Mrs.
Hall were also on the dais. Assistant
U.S. Naval Attache (Lieut.-Commander
J. Marsh) and Mrs. Marsh, the U.S. Air
Force Attache (Col. John Hussey) and
Mrs. Hussey were also there. Other
Americans were Mr. and Mrs. Mark
Clements and Mr. and Mrs. W. W.
Killough.
☆ ☆ ☆
Yachtsman brothers John and Frank
Livingstone were the life of the party at
the Dorchester to aid the Spastic
Children’s Society. Multicolored bal-
loons, tied with racing colors (it was
Newmarket eve) added a gay note to the
ballroom. Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence
Simpson (from N.S.W.) were at the
party, as were Mr. and Mrs. Robert
Molesworth (Ballan), who brought a
party with them. President of the dance
committee Mrs. Lionel Grimwade looked
charming in a frock of hyacinth-blue
chiffon; Mrs. Simon Fraser chose a
white chiffon frock patterned in rose-
pink ; Mrs. Claudia Creswick, who has
just returned from a holiday in Cambodia,
wore a black-silk faille sheath-frock. Mrs.
Frank Hobil Cole chose a frock of jade-
green taffeta, and Mrs. E. Weigall’s choice
was sea-green lace. Joyce Bowman wore
a frock of cream guipure-lace. Others
who looked pretty in their dance frocks
were Mrs. Keith Laycock ; Mrs. Clive
Coogan, who with her husband Dr.
Coogan leaves for England and the U.S.
later in the month; Carmen Clarke,
Marcia Turnbull, Mrs. Hedley Ladd,
Mrs. Robert Lane and Mrs. Douglas
Bowden.
☆ ☆ ☆
Gay Chinese-lanterns decorated the
garden of their Toorak home when the
Consul for the Republic of China, Mr.
K. Y. Leung, and Madame Leung gave
a cocktail-party for over 200 guests so
that they could meet Mr. C. L. Young
and Mr. C. C. Wang, who are the Chinese
delegates to the International Trade Fair.
A national costume of black satin
embroidered in white was worn by the
hostess, and others in national costume
were Gloria Tan, Margaret Louey and
Madeline Wing. Mrs. J. Way Lee, Mrs.
C. T. Tsiang and her son Dr. C. T.
Tsiang, Mrs. David Wang and Jessie Ling
were there to greet the visitors, who
included the Premier and Mrs. Bolte,
Sir Norman and Lady Martin, Mr. and
Mrs. Ron Calvert, Mr. and Mrs. L. J.
Dooling, Mr. and Mrs. Lindsay Mildred
(they leave for Hong Kong on a holiday
in April), Mr. and Mrs. K. Hobbs and


Cr. and Mrs. W. Kilpatrick (the last-
named jubilant at raising £l3lO at a
barbecue she gave at her Mt. Eliza home
for the Yooralla Crippled Children’s
Hospital Appeal).
SYDNEY
Summer lingers on, even though
(ungrateful wretches that we are) we have
gone far past the hinting stage and are
now making quite rude remarks about
our once-welcome guest. The newspapers
actually announced at the end of
February that it was autumn, and last
week all the stores dressed-out their
windows in winter garments. To no avail.
Summer replied with several temperatures
around the 90 mark, dished-out humidity
in abundance, and showed no signs of
packing-up.
Still, autumn must win in the long
run, and the girls who don’t give some
thought to the winter-wardrobe now will
have nothing to wear at the Easter do’s.
The waist has been rediscovered, it has
been announced. (“My goodness me!
Here’s a waist I’d forgotten I had, right
round my rib-cage!”) That’s your
Empire-waistline, dear, and is quite the
thing this year. Disregard all rumors
that it is finished, as was also announced.
As far as we are concerned, it has only
just about begun.
(Just quietly, by the way. Tou don't
have to refer to your Empire-waistline
as your “Commonwealth” waistline. The
“Empire” in question is the Napoleonic,
which is quite all right today. It’s the
British Empire we mustn’t mention.)
This winter we will wear wide-away
collars, stand-away collars, ruff collars,
mushroom collars, bulky collars, and
(alternatively) no collars at all. There
are no halfway measures with collars
this year. Either you are for them, or
against them.
Hats are tall. Even when they are
cloches, they are tall and inclined to
balloon at the top. The “champagne-
cork” is the favorite. It looks like the
champagne-cork once you have got it
out of the bottle. If you are not in
the champagne-class, you may be able
to manage with a shape like a sherry-
cork. But shapes like the screw-on top
of orange-cordial or the flat cap of the
beer-bottle won’t do this season at all.
Oh, dear me, no, definitely not!
These remarks do not, of course,
exhaust the fashion intelligence for
winter, 1959, but they exhaust the space
available. So more next week. (Or not?)
☆ ☆ ☆
The advance of culture in this city
was represented during the week by the
beginning of work on the Opera House.
Formerly one used to refer to “turning
the first sod,” but on this occasion a
bulldozer went into action and there
was a regular upheaval. The effect was
much more striking. Humidity enveloped
the assembly of politicians and well-
known citizens at the ceremony at Bene-
long Point, and then a thunderstorm
threatened, but everyone sat the cere-
mony out with Spartan fortitude and
the rain took itself off. Mrs. Joern Utzon,
the architect’s wife, was the most com-
fortably dressed person present in a white
seersucker dress, sandals and a pull-on
straw hat.
Evelyn Maitland, who is the second
daughter of Dr. and Mrs. D. G. Maitland,
of Macquarie Street, has recently become
engaged to Peter Duncan , son of Mr.
and Mrs. F. N. Duncan, of Killara. Her
engagement-ring is a lovely solitaire-
diamond with diamond-shoulders. Photo
by Norton Trevaire.
If ever anything fulfilled “a long-felt
want” it is the new foyer at the Eliza-
bethan Theatre, which was beheld for
the first time on Friday, when the Trust
gave a party for the presentation of the
General . Motors-Holden’s play award.
Peter Kenna (pronounced “Kennagh”
because it’s an Irish name) won the award
for “The Slaughter of St. Teresa’s Day,”
which will have its premiere tonight
(Wednesday). The winner’s trophy, which
was presented by Miss Gladys Moncrieff,
was designed by Lyndon Dadswell. The
foyer, achieved by dispensing with part
of the back-stalls, has a lush red carpet,
a display of modern paintings and two
handsome portraits of Irene Vanbrugh
and Dion Boucicault. It will undoubtedly
have patrons on the first-night murmur-
ing, “For this relief, much thanks.”
Sir Gilbert Laithwaite, who is Under-
secretary for Commonwealth Relations,
was entertained by the Council of Com-
monwealth Societies at a reception during
the week, and in a polished speech
made it clear that the Commonwealth of
Nations was the greatest force for peace
in the world today. Noted Lady Berry-
man at the party wearing a charming
cherry-red ensemble she bought in Italy,
and Mrs. H. B. Farncomb, very smart
in a floral dress with lantern-skirt. Mrs.
R. T. Russell was present, also Mr. and
Mrs. W. R. H. Naylor, Mr. and Mrs.
L. A. Scott and Miss Rose Merivale, with
her pretty young cousin Susan Dawson,
who is her house-guest on a four-month
visit from England.
.☆ ☆ ☆
Yachting enthusiasts were among the
150 guests who attended the marriage of
Jan Uther, only daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Arthur Uther, of Pymble, to Brian
Northam, elder son of Mr. and Mrs.
W. H. Northam, of Wahroonga, at St.
Swithun’s Church, Pymble, on Friday,
for Brian is the son of Mr. Bill Northam,
owner-skipper of the famous cutter
Caprice, a recent contender in the Hobart
Race and winner of the Sayonara Cup.
Jan was attended by bridesmaids Sue
Thompson, Annette Hooker and Mrs.
Jimmy Graham ; Brian by John Huie,
Brian Friend and Jimmy Graham. The
reception was held at the Elanora Country
Club.
☆ ☆ ☆
At a dinner-party on Friday Mr. and
Mrs. Allan Williams entertained Aus-
tralia’s High Commissioner in
London, Sir Eric Harrison, and Lady
Harrison. Other guests included Pro-
fessor and Mrs. Stephen Roberts and
Major and Mrs. Sugden, of Killara.
These Friday dinner-parties are quite a
feature of the Allan Williams menage,
next week’s guests being the Chancellor
of the University of Sydney, Sir Charles
Bickerton Blackburn, Professor and Mrs.
Blackburn, Dr. and Mrs. Cotter Harvey,
Admiral and Mrs. Harold Farncombe,
and Lady Plowman, while on the follow-
ing Friday Sir Harry and Lady Moxham
will be among those attending.
CANBERRA
Sir Gilbert Laithwaite's witty talk
was enjoyed by guests at a recep-
tion given in his honor at the Hotel
Canberra by the newly formed Canberra
branch of the Royal Commonwealth
Society. Miniature Commonwealth flags
and bowls of red roses were attractive
decorations in the reception-room, where
guests were received by the president, Sir
William Dunk, and Lady Dunk.
Sir Gilbert, who is on a world tour, said
he was often asked how it was that Com-
monwealth countries could quarrel
among themselves and survive, despite
the “illogical” structure of the group of
nations ; his answer was that members of
any family can talk to each other in
ways that strangers can't, and what
family is without its troubles? (Sixty-
thousand telegrams, some of them “quite
rude,” were sent out by his office last year
to Commonwealth countries.)
The U.K. High Commissioner, Lord
Carrington, was an interested listener, as
were the High Commissioner for Canada
and Mrs. T. W. L. Mac Dermot, the
High Commissioner for South Africa,
Mr. A. M. Hamilton, and representatives
of other Commonwealth countries.


A Gossip at Versailles
Louis XIV is supposed to have
established his court at Versailles to
keep his nobles under his eye and out
of (political) mischief ; and there, idle,
luxurious and glittering, headed by the
sun-king, his unacknowledged second
wife, his only surviving legitimate son,
his three ducal grandsons, his bastard
daughter the Princesse de Conti and
his four surviving bastards by Madame
de Montespan, with all these legitimate
and illegitimate minor royalties in-
cessantly quarrelling and conspiring,
naturally they got up to every kind of
mischief under the sun.
It was a paradise for a gossip ; and,
appropriately, one of the greatest
gossips of all time, the Due de Saint-
Simon, found himself in the thick of
things there and prattled ecstactically
about it to the extent of 2,700 folio
pages in minute handwriting “with no
stops, chapters or divisions of any
sort”. Saint Simon at Versailles
(Hamilton), translated by Lucy Norton
and introduced by Nancy Mitford, is
a liberal selection of choice episodes
from his memoirs ; in which, if one
misses many good stories and, especi-
ally, the smoother movement of the
whole, there is quite enough fascin-
ating gossip to entertain (and instruct
in the ways of kings) the average
reader.
One of the most interesting
characters in it is Saint-Simon himself.
Early in the piece he rationalises the
impulse that set him gossiping and
makes it appear a very sober and
practical decision: “My reading of
history, especially the memoirs of my
own times .... gave me the idea of
writing down my own observations, in
the hope that by learning all I could
of current affairs I might fit myself
for some high position”; but even then
he realised that his diary would have
to be kept secret and it is the avidity
with which he seizes upon his material
that shows him in his true light as a
gossip born, dedicated and impas-
sioned: —•
On the surface, the Appartement
[a sort of card-party at The court]
seemed duller than usual, on
account of the situation, but in
reality it was very lively, and, to
to me, it seemed shorter than usual.
It ended with the King’s supper,
where I resolved to let nothing
escape me.... Madame’s eyes were
full of tears, which fell from time
to time, and every now and then
she wiped them away, looking
. around all the while to see how
others were affected. M. de Chartre’s
eyes were also very red, and neither
he nor his mother ate much. I
observed how courteously the King
offered Madame the dishes that were
placed before him and how ungra-
ciously she refused, which did not
in any way disturb his air of polite
attention.
And, though there were only these
significant trifles to indicate it, it was
indeed an exciting scene that was then
■ taking place: for the king, always
anxious to advance his illegitimate
offspring, was then in the process of
marrying-off one of his bastard
daughters to the young Due de
Chartres, his only legitimate nephew;
and Madame, the young bridegroom’s
mother, was furious about it, though
she didn’t dare openly to oppose the
king.
Too much of this episode took place
offstage for Saint-Simon to do full
justice to it—though he did see
Madame box the bridegroom’s ears,
and it is amazing how thoroughly, from
gossip, he reconstructed the whole
affair—but the next royal wedding, as
it occurs in this edition of the memoirs,
was such a public affair, right up to and
after the moment when the happy
couple were put to bed, that he is able
to give up a picture of it as complete
as it is bizarre. This was the wedding
of Princess Marie-Adelaide, of Savoy,
at the age of 12, to one of the king’s
grandsons, the Due de Bourgogne:—
On leaving the table the ladies
went to see the bride’s coucher, but
the men were rigidly excluded by
the King’s command. The ladies
remained with her and the Queen of
England presented the nightgown,
which was handed by the Duchesse
de Lude. Mgr. le Due de Bourgogne
undressed in the anteroom, seated
on a folding stool, attended by the
King and all the princes. The King
of England [James 11, in exile]
presented the shirt, which was
handed by the Due de Beauvilliers.
When Mme. la Duchesse de
Bourgogne was in bed, Mgr. le Due
de Bourgogne entered and got into
bed on the right-hand side, in the
presence of the King and the entire
Court....
And then the young duke got out
again and went off to his own solitary
couch: for, until the couple were older,
it was a token wedding only, though
“the little Due de Berry, so naughty
and bold, thought very ill of his
brother’s meekness in this respect. He
said that he should have remained in
bed.”
It could not be said that life at
Versailles, if you kept your eyes and
ears open as Saint-Simon did, was dull:
even the absurd quarrels over proto-
col, as when all the foreign ambassa-
dors failed in the end to go to the
resplendent Army manoeuvres at Com-
piegne because they were not granted
“the privilege of the pour”—which
meant that someone would write on
their bedroom doors “Pour M. So-and-
So” instead of merely “M. So-and-So”
—had the note of high comedy, as long
as you weren’t involved in them.
And there is the time the king
furiously attacked a waiter with his
cane for pocketing a biscuit, but really
because he was annoyed about the
cowardice of one of his bastards, the
Due du Maine, in battle; and the time
the Duchesse de Chartres, his illegiti-
mate daughter by Mme. de Montespan,
told her illegitimate half-sister the
Princesse de Conti —with reason on
both sides —that “she would sooner be
a wine-skin than a tart” (sometimes
this translation is not altogether
felicitous); and the pranks played by
Lauzun, who persuaded a colonel-
general to wear a tall grey top-hat
when parading his troops before the
king; and the discomfiture of the
Austrian Ambassador when the King
of Spain left his throne to the* Due
d’Anjou, another of the sun-king’s
grandsons; and the spectacle of the
new King of Spain, after this great
affair had been decided, playing touch-
last with his brothers . . . and, perhaps
the greatest achievement of the
memoirs, though the whole picture is
invaluable, there is the superb portrait
of Louis XIV, cool, polite, dangerous
and magnificent, that emerges from all
jthe follies and intrigues of his court.
ANTAGONIST IN GLASS
In warm and brandy-colored light
He walks the room ; past nine, past ten,
Postures before me. His late eye
Is inaccessible and bright.
Intense emotion colors him,
Remote from shadows in the glass ;
Some Flemish hand maintains him there
Securely. The hour grows dim
With blurred print and a running clock
That passes twelve. I pace and turn
Where shadows move in at the door —
Observers of no barring lock —
Yet swing again to find him there,
Cunning or passionless, and I build
A tower against his permanence :
Locked words assaulting the black air.
Then, as my words flicker and die,
I quit my vigil to enjoy
The dark republic of your arms.
The empty mirror gives a sigh,
For up and down this darkened house
A man of glass in exile moves
Beyond the realms of traitorous love,
More insubstantial than a mouse.
victoria.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE.


Turgenev in Person
Prefaced with a 59-page essay by
Edmund Wilson, Turgenev’s Literary
Reminiscences, translated with an
introduction by David Magarshack
(Faber), don’t start until page 91.
Meantime Wilson has surveyed Tur-
genev’s life and works, with special
attention to his mother, who ruled
thousands of serfs so strictly that her
maids threw their babies into the pond,
while her mother put a little serf boy
who irritated her into an armchair, put
a pillow over him, sat on him, and
suffocated him; and Magarshack, con-
centrating on the present work, has
pointed out that the “Literary Remi-
niscences” began as answers to the
vicious attacks that had been made on
Turgenev’s novel “Fathers and Sons”
—“his great masterpiece”—especially
the charge that he had caricatured the
young critic Dobrolyubov in it.
When Turgenev begins to get his
word in edgeways, he writes very
pleasantly about his unsatisfactory
meetings with Pushkin and about
Belinsky, who knew very little but was
a good critic, gives a magnificent
picture of Gogol reading his own play,
remembers touring Italy with Ivanov
the painter, is hurt that he should have
been thought to have “lampooned”
Dobrolyubov:—
j have always been and stiU am>
of the opinion that the writing of a
lampoon, a “squib,” is unworthy of
[ my talents],
R , . h P tt Pr in the autnhio-
, . , , , ~ , f .
graphical sketches added from time to
time to the original Reminiscences:
The Execution of Tropmann, tor
instance, a description of the guillotin-
ing of a French murderer, at which
Turgenev was invited to a box-seat, “A
Fire at Sea,” in which he gives a some-
what suspect account of his bearing
when a passenger-steamer caught fire;
and especially three little nature-
studies, one of Pegas, his gun-dog, and
how it excelled all other gun-dogs in
retrieving not one, but two, hares at a
time, one of a quail leading the fowlers
from its nest, and, best of all, an effort
to get down exactly what the old serf,
Afanasy Ivanov, had to say on the art
of catching nightingales: how, with a
hen-bird and a little whistle, to snare
them or drive them into a net, how they
must be kept in cages with cloth tops,
in the middle of a room, and not near
the windows, and must be fed on
ants’ eggs, complete with illustrations
of their ten different calls.
“I’m Going to Maxim’s”: H. J.
Greenwall (Wingate). Begun by
Maxime Gaillard in 1891, Maxim’s of
Paris has been a British company since
1907; and this book is about its famous
customers, like James Gordon Bennett,
the American publisher, who arrived
late at night and would often have
the whole staff paraded before him,
holding kitchen utensils, brooms, etc.
in military fashion for inspection,
before he distributed gold 20-franc
pieces; La Belle Otero, who competed
with Liahe de Pougy, each wearing
more and more jewels, until the night
the de Pougy appeared in black velvet,
without any jewels, and her maid, on
a pretext of giving her a message came
to her table plastered with them . . .
The usual throaty old clubman stories
in the throaty old clubman manner —
but quite as good at passing the time
away as an evening’s TV.
THE JIVAROS
The Jivaros hunt heads. The Jivaros
live in clans, mutually antagonistic,
deep in the jungle of the Matto Grosso
under the eastern slopes of the Andes.
[
The Jivaros hunt heads. The Jivaros,
unlike their neighbors, the Colorados,
do not consider themselves a brother-
hood
all of one blood. What links them is a
perpetual feud.
The Jivaros hunt heads. The Jivaros
teach their men-children to kill only in
anger,
only for revenge prescribed and only in a
state of intoxication.
Thus there is a preliminary ritual of
drinking and drug-taking.
The Jivaros hunt heads. The Jivaros
have a witch-doctor in each clan who
periodically,
with dancing, dressing-up and drug-
taking,
names a victim who lives across the river.
The Jivaros hunt heads. The Jivaros
go out and seek to take the head of the
named man;
and the men of the named man’s clan, in
return,
seek to kill a man of the raiding-party, to
perpetuate the feud.
The Jivaros hunt heads. The Jivaros
cleanse their bodies with water before
they eat;
they fill their mouths with water and
squirt it over themselves.
They sit down by their cooking-pots and
eat their bananas and fish, and wait
for the snake to strike from out of
the jungle.
The Jivaros hunt heads. The Jivaros
peel the skin from the head of the named
man,
the head that was taken, and shrink the
skin with hot sand
and smoke it over a fire. It is hung by
the hair from the victory pole.
The Jivaros hunt heads. The Jivaros
(in the film that I have just seen) “survive
in the terrible jungle of the Mat to Grosso
because they are more savage than nature
itself.”
The Jivaros hunt heads. The Jivaros
still do in very truth. The Jivaros
love violence for violence’ sake, for it is
the Forest in them, for they are in the
Forest.
The Jivaros hunt heads. The Jivaros
kill according to strict ritual and custom
immemorial, but only in revenge and to
avenge
the spirit of the named man who other-
wise would haunt them.
The Jivaros hunt heads. The Jivaros
put flowers in their hair, are faithful
to their wives and they weave
very beautiful cloth. They sing. They
dance.
The Jivaros hunt heads. The Jivaros
comb their long black Mongolian hair;
they fashion artificial flowers
from the feathers of the comical
Papagayos.
The Jivaros hunt heads. The Jivaros
have just been presented in a mutilated
travel-film to a houseful of squirming
people who muttered how savage, how
disgusting.
The Jivaros hunt heads. The Jivaros
should have seen the main picture, which
was a Western
in which celluloid toughs murdered each
other,
for no good reason at all, with soft lead
bullets.
The Jivaros hunt heads. The Jivaros
would be very interested to know that
the antics
of all these pansy bully-boys is really to
earn money to pay
alimony to the several wives they have
discarded.
The Jivaros hunt heads. The Jivaros
have just been served up as an object-
lesson
in savagery, and to show how far the
white man has come
from the Forest . , ,
The Jivaros hunt heads. The Jivaros . . .
but let us forget the Jivaros or else we
shall see
nothing but shrunken heads and sewn-up
lips
wherever we look.
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.


Sewage, Waste
and Water
Treatment
diker mm
By America s Leading Designers and Manufacturers
Walker Process Equipment Inc.
Wholly Manufactured in Australia
7 his compact Activated Sludge Package Plant is designed for a population of 10,000 people.
Complete Plants are available for populations of 50 and upwards.
The available range includes:-
CLARIFIERS
FLOCCULATORS
SLUDGE HEATERS
AIR LIFT PUMPS
ROTARY DISTRIBUTORS
DIFFUSED AIR EQUIPMENT
GRIT HANDLING EQUIPMENT
SELF CLEANING BAR SCREENS
ORE CLASSIFIERS
OIL SEPARATION
OIL EMULSION BREAKERS
OIL COOLANT RECLAMATION
PAPER STOCK SAVE-ALLS
PLATING WASTE TREATMENT
CARBON DIOXIDE PRODUCTION
INDUSTRIAL WASTE THICKENERS
For lull details of Walker Process Equipment to suit your own application, write to us today
X
Manufactured under License by
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Lid.
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY QUEENSLAND, AUSTRALIA
Interstate Agents:
N.S.W.: Alfred Snashall Pty. Ltd., 500 Kent Street, Sydney
Vic-: Thomson & Carroll Pty. Ltd., 792 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
S.A.: Mining Supplies (S.A.), 622 South Road, Edwardstown
