

The Bulletin
Should Banking .Legislation Be Reviewed 1
Wednesday , February 11, 1959
Price 1 /-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
"It's got me worried the banks all castin' their eagle eyes on key corner-sites."


V;
JtS^XS
TifT
BOOKS BOUGHT
We visit you In the City and Suburbs
Immediate Cash Payment
Valuations made for Probate
BW 7874
(After Hours JY 1131)
BERKELOUW
114 King Street, (Between Pitt and
Castlereagh Streets), Sydney.
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
Special Interest to Writers
101 PLOTS USED AND ABUSED
by JAMES N. YOUNG,
20 years Fiction Editor of Collier’s.
Here’s 101 different short story plots each
outlined in less than 200 words —a “must” for
any short story writer who hopes to sell on
the 1,000 dollar market in America.
This unique book (hard cover, dust jacket)
now available for the first time in limited
quantity at 13/6 per copy post free.
Return Mail Service
ARAWA DISTRIBUTING CO.,
Sole Distributors.
Dept. 83, Box 5151, G.P.0., Sydney.
The Red Page
AUBREY
Time, which has dropped so many
beautiful thing in my lap, has given me
my third John Aubrey, Aubrey’s Brief
Lives, edited by Oliver Lawson Dick
(Seeker and Warburg), without
reproaching me for losing two copies
of John Collier’s between-wars “The
Scandal and Credulities of John
Aubrey”—Time, having invented no
way of coping with book-borrowers,
wouldn’t have the hide.
The 134 lives in Dick’s edition are
many more than in Collier’s selection,
and Dick’s introduction, which uses a
great deal of Aubrey’s fragmentary
pieces that are not included in the body
of the book, is an exact and thorough
commentary on Aubrey’s life and
times, whereas Collier’s introduction
was a charming sketch of Aubrey as an
artist in life and words; yet for the
dilettante this large new edition is no
improvement on Collier’s beautiful
little book with its fine typeography,
and its casual linocuts.
And most of us are dilettantes when
we read Aubrey, not caring at all that
these “Lives” have facts about people
and society in the 16th and 17th cen-
turies that historians can find nowhere
else, but merely rejoicing in a turn of
phrase, in a beautiful and libidinous
anecdote about Raleigh in the orchard
with the maid-of-honor, or in the
equally libidinous pastoral, more lively
and even more lovely than Spenser,
more direct than Marlowe, that com-
memorates Dean Overall’s gay wife, or
in the news that Suckling was a card-
sharp and sent marked cards in advance
to places he was going to visit—in fact,
Aubrey is a dilettante of dilettantes.
Biography, for him, is what can be
remembered from conversations where
wine flowed; “roving and magotie-
headed, and sometimes little better
than erased” applies no better to
Aubrey than to dilettantes in general,
and to those who read him in especial,
those of us who are more in love with
love of Aubrey than with exactly what
he wrote. With his style, that is; for a
hack writer, when words become
bilious and unreasonably splenetic,
there is no better antidote than a few
pages of Aubrey.
The circumstances of Anthony a
Wood’s calling Aubrey “roving and
magotie-headed” may interest students
of the new N. S. Wales defamation
legislation. In his “Athenae Oxiensis”
Wood relied on Aubrey’s information
in mentioning Lord Chancellor Hyde’s
“corruption”,' and action was brought
against Wood, although Hyde had been
dead 20 years, by Hyde’s son. Lord
Clarendon, and Wood was fined £4O,
and expelled from the university . . .
Suddenly one sees that if it was indo-
lence which prevented publication of
Aubrey’s 66 volumes of manuscript,
he was very fortunate; these amusing
and beautiful scraps of information
about the private lives of the great, if
published in his own times, might have
got him murdered.
Although it is published at 355.
(sterling), and runs to some 450 pages,
my “new” Aubrey is a cheapened edi-
tion of Dick’s original job of 1949, and
omits the bibliography and glossary of
persons and references; but it retains its
28 plates of Aubreyana and noble per-
sonages (Suckling appears as a true,
long-faced rake, impossible to reconcile
with the pudding-faced cavalier of my
edition of his poems), and if it is a bit
more cumbersome than the Collier edi-
tion, that may help me preserve it from
the light-fingered gentry so understand-
ably numbered among Aubrey’s
admirers.
R. McC.
Two on Birds
Two pleasant and useful little books
on birds that have lately flown in for
review are The Birds of Sydney (Royal
Zoological Society of N.S.W.), by
K. A. Hindwood and A. R. McGill,
and —if a game-fowl may properly be
described as a bird — The King of
Fowls, by Mark Marshall, published
by the Federal Society of Game-
fanciers, P.O. Box 267, Armidale,
N.S.W.
“The King of Fowls,” it must be
admitted, will be useful to only a. very
small circle, or covey, of readers. It
is limited to 200 copies, priced at
£5 10s. and serves a severely practical
purpose as a guide to the finer points
of the Australian game-fowl, the Aus-
tralian pit-game-fowl and the Old
English game-fowl. There cannot be
many connoisseurs of the game-fowl
in Australia, and, in fact, were it not
for dim memories of seeing the things
—beg pardon ; seeing these noble
creatures —at the Sydney Show, one
wouldn’t have thought there were any.
Yet, few though they may be, they
are valiant; and if their hobby, cult
or religion, as here expressed, is not
likely to spread far and wide it still
makes pleasant reading for any bird-
fancier : how the Australian game-
fowl was developed, for example, from
“the intermingling of the blood of the
Malay, the Aseel and the British fight-
ing fowls”; and the pit-game-fowl, in
turn, from the Australian game, or
“colonial,” with the Modern British
and the Malay, with the happy result
that “From a fancier’s viewpoint there
is perhaps no better fowl on legs. His
close plumage, fitting his body like
wax, his hardness of feather, upright
carriage, great size and stately bearing
make him a fowl to be wondered at.”
It is also stimulating to learn from
these enthusiastic pages that cock-
fighting, though the author faintly
frowns upon it, seems still to persist
as a sport in odd corners of this
country. It seems to have reached its
peak in Ike Tutty’s Australian pit-
cock “Les Darcy” (illustrated in color)
which weighed 101 b. 6oz. and “was as
smart and as active as an Old English.
He fought thirteen battles, killed eight
—the other five he couldn’t catch.”
Mark Marshall, the author, was
patron of the Glen Innes Poultry Club
and Big Game-fowl Club of Australia
and a well-known judge at poultry-
shows. The book, published by his
colleagues, is intended partly as a
memorial to him. It contained fore-
words by Athol Giles and Ralph
Berman and is handsomely bound in
a blue cloth with a golden game-cock
embossed on the front cover.
“The Birds of Sydney” is, of course,
of much more general use, the more
so since “Sydney” is taken to mean
the whole of the County of Cumber-
land, roughly from Bulli to the Nepean.
It lists and briefly describes the 337
species of birds (out of the Australia-
wide total of 700) which have been
observed in this fortunate area; is
illustrated with some charming photo-
graphs of birds at their nests; and in-
cludes a somewhat wistful “Provisional
(Continued on page 58)


ehkwmm
Bn
—offer these built-in
advantages ...
International
AA-139
■
tip WSO
.
♦ « «
'
\ * ' •
LOW MAINTENANCE COSTS
LONG TYRE LlfE...
CAB STYLE & COMFORT.
as**
sa
'£S9-
nfihrrr
International AA-148
The Important features bracketed here are built into every new International AA-130 and
AA-148 to mean more economical, more efficient truck operation for you.
Here are trucks sturdy enough to carry substantial loads which do not incur road tax
ideal farm carriers or general purpose vehicles for the "truckman about town". Here are
the strongest-for-their-class, entirely new designed frames, in the business. Here are the
hard-working Australian Blue Diamond Engines with more torque and more usable horsepower.
Check on the rest of the AA-130, AA-148 story. Call on your nearest IH Office or
International Harvester Dealer at once.
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.,
FMT3I4/J


The Bulletin
Wednesday, Feb. 11, 1959
Vol. 80—No. 4122
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adama
K. J. Prior.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Wesiralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
ITT AND HIMM
[LEPRECHAUNS AT CANBERRA]
AN ancient institution in Ireland,
according to unauthenticated
legend, was the Crowdie of the Sidhe
—the congress of the Little Men, or
fairies, who met in their own fort
from which every other living thing
was excluded except the two quarrel-
some leprechauns, Itt and Himm, and
the barryhoo, a bird with round yeMow
eyes and a long black tail which
mourned in a tree above the gathering..
Reporters being barred from the
crowdie, there have never been any
shorthand notes of such gatherings;
but, as with the modern Labor caucus,
whose procedures and character seem
to have derived from the ancient
Hibernian tradition, there were leak-
ages enough to provide a sketchy out-
line of what usually took place. And.
in any case, the indignant shouts of
Itt and Himm, always at loggerheads
with everybody in sight, and the wail
of the barryhoo continually mourning
for his mate, the barrywich, in the
arbutus-tree overhead, gave a clear
indication of the tone of the debate.
The crowdie seems to have died-
out in Eire; or, rather, it seems to have
immigrated to Australia, along with
so many of the race of Brian Boru. It
will reassemble in its new surround-
ings forninst the poplar-trees of the
yard of Parliament House in Canberra
on February 16 with all its tradi-
tional features and noises—the keen-
ing of the assembly in general for
comrades departed at the elections, the
authentic notes of Itt Evatt and Himm
Ward mingling with the dreeing sob of
the barryhoo-bird Calwell, lonely with-
out his friends Messrs. Bourke. Kane,
Keon and others in whom lay his vain
hope of leadership of the party, but
whom he does not dare to regret too
openly lest Itt and Himm and the rest
combine for once and deprive him of
his Parliamentary bread.
Altogether, the crowdie at Canberra
will run very true to the ancient type,
with nobody agreeing about anything
save the need to make as much
mischief as possible for the usurpers
of the Fairy Lands sitting on the
Government benches, who, at the same
time, must be enjoined to put out
more milk for the leprechauns in the
shape of increased Parliamentary
salaries.
The main question will be, of course,
who is to be the Big Fairy. Itt or Himm,
a matter which will be decided only
after a dire struggle in which a lot of
shenannigan will be involved, and
pious and unreal sentiments worthy
only of fairy logic will be uttered.
Not only the gathering, but the situa-
tion of its members, smacks of that
of Ould Ireland. Most of the mem-
bers of caucus are of the Irish race or
have Irish associations —even some of
the Itt Evatts were squireens in Kerry
of yore. But most of them have been,
severed from the ancient tradition
which dominated Australian Labor
politics for so many years before
colonialism died and in which the
prime axiom was that England was
esteemed to be—to quote one of the
late T. J. Ryan’s Ministers, Mr.
Fihelly, in Queensland —“the land of
cant, humbug and hypocrisy.”
With the loss of this phrase as its
rallying-cry and the rise of the political
fairies in the party to assert their rights
against usurping Roman Catholics at
the indignant demand of Itt, Labor
has lost its unity of character.
"ys/HATEVER the crowdie may or
can do in Canberra, or the bigger
and more potent biennial crowdie of
the A.L.P. in May, its assembly is now
a house irrevocably divided like the
Ireland of the 17th century.
The union-movement is split to the
wide with cracks running in every
direction —great cracks between the
A.W.U. and other unions, little cracks
in the internal fabric sometimes
developing volcanic eruptions due to
the perpetual election fight, Com-
munists v. the Rest.
The political set-up is the series of
fairy rings and forts. State and
Federal, each divided from the other
and secretly intriguing for control of
the others, and each a seething mass
of intrigue Communist. “Demo-
cratic” and just plain careerist.
The rank-and-file is becoming more
and more aloof from union and politi-
cal leadership, since all the reasons for
traditional hates and policies of Labor
have disappeared.
It is difficult to believe that only
15 years ago the Leftist heads of such
unions as the Miners’ Federation had
but to lift a finger and the Labor
Government of the day genuflected.
Today even their rank-and-file and
lodges do what they like, and the
issues which they raise are unrealities or
of little importance to those who main-
tain them in office, as much through
punchdrunk habit as anything else.
Mr. Albert Monk, from being the
darling of the Reds, now exhibits him-
self in the guise of an enlightened
and respectable industrial conservative,
a businessman engaged to look after
the workers’ interests, but with respon-
sibility to ensure expanding produc-
tion and absorption of the growing
work-force.
TN the circumstances, it does not
A matter very much what happens at
the Canberra crowdie on February 16;
that gathering belongs only to. the
make-believe realm of the Little Men.
Whether it elects Itt Evatt or Himm
Ward as its leader, the election can
only lead to perpetuation and intensi-
fication of the divisions and chaos of
the party, and of its impish and
destructive policies.
Whichever is chosen will be
anathema, as before, to all Rightists
and Moderates and in the pockets of
the new Communist-landlord class.
If the election goes outside the pale
of these two champions the office must
go to somebody who will find the Red
element tunnelling underneath him
from the word go.
The fact that Dr. Evatt has the
support both of that recent Peking
Pilgrim. Mr. Chamberlain, president of
the Federal A.L.P.. and of Mr. Calwell,
seems to suggest that he may win, unless
one of them engages in the ancient
gymnastic art of the double-cross.
Arthur Calwell himself seems to have
little chance, since he is scarcely a
member of the crowdie, but only a
mournful voice giving counsel from
the barryhoo perch in the arbutus-tree
above.
Nobody can believe for a moment,
in view of his external associations, that
he is really part of the Evatt bloc or
has any other objective in embracing
his present leader than to get his arms
round him and strangle him politi-
cally.
Dr. Evatt, when he produced sec-
tarianism after the Petrov Commis-
sion as a road-block to cover his retreat
from that disastrous incident, achieved
only one positive thing. He destroyed
the unity of Federal Labor as effec-
tively as if he had thrown a bomb into
the party, and he did it on such an
issue that the pieces can never be put
together again on the old basis, and
that political Labor as it exists can
never again be a useful and construc-
tive force in unionism, with which, as
a whole, it is no longer integrated.
It belongs, as it now exists, as much
to the yearned-for past as the Irish
Little People, and its attitude and
influence are about the same as those
of the leprechauns. It is a power only
for mischief.


THE SCARECROW


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Ides of March
Something better than rumor has it
that J. J. Cahill intends to take the icy
election plunge on March 21 —14 days
after Tom Playford in S.A.
It would sound unbelievable that any
other N.S. W. Premier, even at the moment
of exaltation when he has signed the
contract for a vast opera Louse, would
hold a poll in Royal Show week.
But desperate measures for desperate
men. Show-week would have advantages
from Cahill’s point of view, since it
might help to disorganise the country
vote, even if it did discomfort a lot
of the population to have an election
then.
Cahill’s legitimate chances become less
rosy every day. The intentions of the
D.L.P. are now clear, and their policy
becomes more justified as it is evident
that the Communist party will openly
support Cahill and the other Labor
Governments of West Australia and Tas-
mania.
Various facts have dawned on both
the Communists and the D.L.P. To the
former the truth has come home that
Labor is starving for funds and that
the Communist unions and itself —-
nobody knows how much money the C.P.
has because it doesn’t keep books —are
the only sources from which it can receive
succor. Thus there is hope of a juicy
bit of trading by Communist-led
unions with a man leading a forlorn-
hope party run to seed and blown
upon to such an extent that he
cannot even smell the fly-blow when it
is held directly under his nose by the
press.
Also, there is the desperate danger
that with all Liberal-Country government
in the States as well as in the Common-
wealth, the seven sovereign Governments
would get together and outlaw the
Communist party, at least from union-
leadership. Such a measure would have
the private support of an increasingly
irate union - membership working under
Communist dictatorships. These are
beginning to discover that while Com-
munist intimidation renders them afraid
to act against their officers, members of
non-Communist unions are better-off.
About 85 per cent, of all lost days in
industry are accounted for by the coal,
wharf and shipping unions, between them.
The D.L.P. senses the same facts. It
realises that Liberal Governments, if
able, would have very little excuse for
not dealing with Communism, even
if, in the face of the last referendum-
vote which proved such a triumph for
Dr. Evatt, they were reluctant to do any-
thing. The D.L.P., by holding-off, could,
some of its high - spirited leaders feel,
drive a bargain on the question at the
next ensuing election.
Also, with the loss of union-leadership
and legal control of union-funds and
power for mischief, the Communist allies
of the Left in the A.L.P. would lose a
great deal of their power, and the bulk
of the A.L.P. branches would be glad
to see the end of them. And then the
men within the A.L.P. who are closer to
Kane than to Evatt in outlook —A. A.
Calwell, for example—would be free to
muster-up their courage and plump for
the enforcement of the A.L.P. rules
against Communist association. Sheer
self-preservation would dictate this course.
Clive Evatt’s project he need not
worry about money, having behind him
one of the largest family-fortunes within
the Labor realm —for creating an inde-
pendent Labor party under his own
leadership is not so mad as it seems.
His objective is probably not to win
seats but to divert sufficient votes from
Cahill’s supporters to destroy him out
of revenge for past disfavors. In that
objective he might well succeed in mar-
ginal seats.
Cahill’s prospects round the Ides of
March, if he goes to election then, seem
no less bleak than those of Caesar. Under
his rule N.S.W. has become shabbier and
shabbier politically, less and less attrac-
tive to overseas capital which passes it
by almost as a matter of course, unless
connections already established make it
necessary to give it priority.
The public is becoming utterly sick of
the shabby,, dirty transport, scandal at
every turn, and perpetual whine, inepti-
tude and exaction which characterise
the Cahill regime.
Wool Prices and Publicity
Chairman of the Australian Wool-
growers’ Council, W. Weatherley, said
in Melbourne on February 6 that a meet-
ing of the council would be held in
Sydney on February 23 to examine alter-
natives to the present free auction system
of selling wool in Australia. His state-
ment followed a decision in Melbourne
on February 5 by the Australian Wool
and Meat Producers’ Federation to ask
the Federal Government to establish a
wool-marketing committee, one of the
duties of which would be to set a
reserve price at auction after consulta-
tion with the wool-marketing authorities
in New Zealand and South Africa.
These moves are in advance of any
findings that may be made by the inquiry
into wool-marketing in Sydney and
Goulburn being conducted bv Mr. Justice
Cook.
Mr. G. d’A. Chislett, secretary of the
Australian Woolgrowers’ Council, says
the council has been traditionally in favor
of free auctions, and had reaffirmed its
attitude as recently as March 5, 1958.
In 1951 Australian woolgrowers re-
jected a reserve-price plan, even though
it was approved in New Zealand and
South Africa. Prices are now much lower
than they were in 1951.
Greatest supporter of the reserve-price
plan in Australia has been P. R. Rogers,
whose views have been expressed at
length in The Bulletin over the past
year. He would undoubtedly have more
supporters for his plan now than was the
case in 1951 ; but whether support would
be sufficient to carry the proposal into
effect only a referendum could show.
Mr. Rogers says he thinks it would be
carried by four to one (see page 20,
this issue).
Mr. Rogers’s ideas concerning a better-
conducted publicity-campaign for wool
are bringing more immediate results. The
Australian Wool Bureau’s promotion
plans are being drastically changed, and
a variety of publicity drives are under
way.
The Australian Wool Bureau, in asso-
ciation with David Jones Ltd., and the
N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’ Association, from
May 25 to June 6 will stage a “Wool
and Sheep Show” throughout David
Jones’ three Sydney stores. This will also
coincide with the Diamond Jubilee Sheep
Show at Sydney Showground from May
27 to May 30. The promotion will in-
volve the staging of an International
Wool Parade featuring garments from the
world’s leading fashion-centres and the
release of new woollen merchandise of
every category, with particular emphasis
on the increased uses for wool, and its
many advantages. In addition, a special
exhibit from the C.5.1.R.0. will illustrate
the latest advances in research, and will
show the public, in a practical way, the
outstanding properties of wool.
Coinciding with the agitation that has
come to the surface in Australia in recent
weeks concerning the marketing of wool,
overseas buyers have chosen to lift their
bids by about 5 p.c. since sales opened
in 1959.
Mr. Chislett thinks this may be the
turning-point in the fall in prices that
has continued since October, 1957.
It is to be hoped that it is. But it
is also to be hoped that it is not taken
as an excuse for manufacturers of
woollens to raise their prices. No re-
duction in the price of woollen garments
has been noticeable to the naked eye
during the prolonged period of falling
wool prices just mentioned.
Moscow Visit
The visit of Prime Minister Macmillan
to Moscow, with the U.K. Foreign Secre-
tary, Selwyn Lloyd, emphasises the
increasing importance of the U.K. in
Western policy. Western Europe seems
to have decided, with Britain giving the
lead, that it is strong enough to stand
once more on its own feet and to restore
the old diplomacy.
Macmillan will reach Moscow on
February 20 and will remain there until
February 27. He, therefore, will be in
Moscow or thereabouts on February 23,
which is Red Army Day, usually cele-
brated by vast parades and swashbuckling
speeches.
It will be interesting to see whether
Khrushchev will be brazen and maladroit
enough to invest the day with its usual
atmosphere, and, if he does, how he will
reconcile his proceedings with his
demands for “peace.”
Mr. Macmillan’s presence in Moscow
would be an opportunity for some
compromise on the Berlin issue if com-
promise is possible ; it will also be an
opportunity for the Prime Minister to
make clear to the Russians just exactly
how far the United Kingdom is prepared


to go in developing policies of mutual
agreement on all issues about which there
are differences, which means nearly every
issue.
Macmillan should go to Moscow pro-
perly prepared for eventualities and the
double-cross ; if by nothing else than the
triumphant shouts of the Russian leaders
at the Communist-party congress last
week about their immense progress in
the development of the hydrogen-bomb
since some “agreement” has been reached
on the cessation of bomb-tests and
suspension of further H-bomb operations.
The Soviet Defence Minister, Marshal
Malinovsky—in full uniform with decora-
tions—boasted that his Army can now
carry its hydrogen-charges by rocket to
any point of the earth with exact
accuracy.
On the same day the Russian negotia-
tors in Geneva played one of their oldest
tricks. Having expansively agreed to
open inspection and control arrange-
ments designed to enforce suspension of
atomic-weapon tests and development,
and received world-wide publicity for this
evidence of their desire for peace, they
suddenly demanded the right to veto any
control arrangements which did not suit
them.
The stage is being reached when fur-
ther talk of agreement seems futile.
On the Russian side, dishonest by
Western standards, it has been proved
over the last 15 years that Communism
feels itself at liberty to break any agree-
ment even when signed and sealed.
It is to be hoped that the Kremlin is
not allowed to make use of the Mac-
millan visit for specious propaganda
purposes.
Caning the Teacher
When some of the facts and even a few
of the figures are considered, the row
that has developed between the Premier
and the Victorian Teachers’ Union seems
inevitable. It is possible to consider both
cases sympathetically and not feel too
censorious of Bolte’s production of the
Constitution, no less, on one hand, and
the hot-headed remarks of a few teachers
on the other.
The fact is that 30 to 39 schools opened
last week in halls or similar unsuitable
buildings because of the lack of new
schools, and that about 6000 pupils were
expected to learn in accommodation that
is, if not “dilapidated, condemned,
crowded, unheated, badly ventilated and
lighted,” is at least partly so.
It is also true that a recital of these
and similar facts at an annual gathering
well reported by the press, and at the
start of the school year, can be calcu-
lated as politically damaging, and Bolte's
public rebuke of the teachers has been
followed by another on an official level.
The “Education Gazette and Teachers’
Aid,” published by the Education Depart-
ment, has now warned schoolteachers to
stop writing to M.P.s in “attempts to
influence decisions on a teacher’s
remuneration, not to comment on con-
troversial political issues, religious
matters or in words that could be con-
strued as attempts to impose their own
beliefs on children.”
The “Gazette,” which must have been
brought to the newspapers’ attention since
no general newspaper-reader probably
had ever heard of it until the teachers
began criticising their lack of classrooms,
quotes Section 408 of the Constitution
Act Amendment Act, and says there has
been a tendency in recent years by some
teachers to disregard its provision that
public servants, including teachers, shall
not attempt to use any influence on pay
or positions in the public service.
The lapses and official misdemeanors
of a few teachers should not be cited
and publicised to the detriment of all
their colleagues. Teachers, of course, get
bees in their bonnets like other academic
citizens. But a little more tolerance and
forbearance with the big stick may get
the Government better results from the
teachers.
Taxation and Savings
[From Canberra]
Expressed in present depreciated pounds,
Australians paid more taxation, both in
the aggregate and per head of popula-
tion, in 1957-58 than at any other time
since taxation was first imposed.
Aggregate collections more than
doubled since the present Federal
Government took office in 1949, while the
rate per head of population also increased
by almost 100 per cent. Wage-rates have
nearly doubled in the same time, and
income-tax brackets have not been fully
adjusted to allow for increased living-
costs.
Victorians paid more per head of
population in State taxes than any other
State, but still managed to have the second-
highest per capita savings-banks deposits.
In 1957-58 the Australian people paid
£1,289,790,000 in taxation—£l,l6l,s33,-
000 to the Commonwealth and £128,257,-
000 in State taxes.
In State taxes, Victoria headed the
list with the rate of £l4 6s. 4d. per head,
followed by N.S.W. with £l3 ss. 5d.,
then coming Queensland, Tasmania,
South Australia and Western Australia,
in that order.
The overall amount of tax a head of
population during the year totalled
£132 Bs. 2d., compared with £67 13s.
in 1948-49.
The N.S.W. Government collected
£48,552,000 in taxes from residents of
that State. Motorists paid more than
one-quarter of this —£12,981,000, includ-
ing £10,308,000 in registration-fees and
taxes. Probate and succession - duties
claimed £10,756,000, stamp - duties
£11,581,000, liquor taxes £3,460,000,
racing £2,953,000 and poker-machine
licence-fees £835,000.
The remainder of N.S.W.'s tax-revenue
came from miscellaneous collections.
Despite the increased burden of taxa-
tion, Australians have more money in
savings-banks than at any other time in
their history.
At the end of December, deposits with
the savings-banks totalled £1,337,446,000,
an average of £136 15s. a head of
population.
South Australians, who are second-
lowest on the per capita taxation basis,
had their highest per capita savings-
deposits—£l6B a head.
Other States’ figures were Victoria
£l6l 18s., N.S.W. £126 45., Tasmania
£123 145., Queensland £ll3 165., Northern
Territory £lll, A.C.T. £IOO 16s. and
Western Australia £96 14s.
The OBd Pattern Repeated
Iraq, formerly the key-post of the
Baghdad Pact countries, occupying a
wonderful defence position below the
Alvand Range and commanding fuel
resources invaluable to Western defence
in the Indian Ocean zone, has given still
another illustration of what Communist
ferment can do.
As in Cuba, there was a very strong
Communist ingredient behind the
savagery which destroyed the United
Kingdom’s and Australia’s best friends
on the fringes of the Middle East, just
as there was behind Nasser and behind
the “youth movement” of Cuba and the
Indonesian revolution, not to mention
that of Burma.
In Iraq the usual pattern has emerged.
First some unscrupulous would-be dic-
tator rises near the surface and, as one
of a band, organises revolt, pushing for-
ward some stooge to make the impact if
things go wrong and to do most of the
dirty work. Thus worked Nasser from
behind Neguib, allowing him to win
control on pledges to which he himself
did not feel himself party. Thus also
worked Kassem in Iraq, with a noisy
deputy Premier, Colonel Aref, to plan
the murders and rabble-rouse and per-
suade the Arab bloc that the insurrec-
tion was a preliminary to the entry of
the new “free” State into the Arab
Federal Republican fold.
As soon as Aref had secured the
Government, and everybody from the
old regime had been placed in the dock
on trials for plottings against Syria and
the Arab combination—a cynical gesture
—Aref was sent to exile in Western
Germany as Ambassador to get him out
of the way ; but he came back through
Cairo full of zeal for Nasserism.
This was awkward for the Govern-
ment which, at the moment, was showing
itself in its true colors and proving where
its technique had come from.
In the subsequent discussions Aref is
alleged to have pointed a gun at the
Prime Minister Kassem and has been
sentenced to death in consequence, just
about the time that the latter’s supposedly
independent Ministry decided to tie itself
to Russia in return for promises of aid
and finance. A great many Baghdadis
must be deeply shocked and painfully
surprised by these developments.
So must some sleepy diplomats and
editors in the outside world.
Iraq, in Russian hands, would place
Persia in a Communist squeeze, outflank
Turkey on the east, throw important oil
resources into the Russian zone, give
Russia a way into the Indian Ocean and
provide another centre of Communist
ferment of great strategic importance.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
My wife got me a Japanese cork-
screw for Christmas, to help
me with my drinking. It is one of
those beautiful, shiny gadgets with a
wing or lever at each side, and all you
have to do is screw-in the corkscrew
part, press the levers and, hey presto,
out pops the cork. Only in this one the
screw won’t reach further than halfway
down the cork and when you press
the levers, if there is any weakness in
the cork, hey presto, out pops half the
cork. And you can’t screw the thing
in any further to get out the other half.
Screwy, isn't it? —“Mac Hoots.”
❖ * *
“Wusslean” : In an all-out drive against
purveyors of pornographic art, Victorian
police have been keeping a watchful eye
open for anything that might be con-
sidered obscene. Patrolmen in Russell
Street swooped on the tattooed picture of
a woman on a man’s arm. Arm and man
were taken to headquarters for photo-
graphing: when it came to laying a
charge, however, it was found that the
Police Offences Act, while prohibiting
obscene photographs, was silent on the
subject of tattooing. Well, what’s wrong
with a naughty picture so long as a chap
keeps it up his sleeve?
♦♦♦ ♦> ♦♦♦
“K. A. Toomb”: Sydney’s wealthiest
and most fashionable beach would be
Palm Beach, but I wonder how many
of the residents know that it was once
called Mad Mick’s Hollow, and at
another period Cranky Alice’s Beach?
A -t*. A.
V V V
“W.P.T.”: Saw a New Zealand car-
driver’s licence, a neat pasteboard folder,
vest-pocket size, and designed to last
for years. N.S.W. might have a look
at these N.Z. licences and compare them
with our own flimsy paper licence,
usually in several pieces by the end of
the year—even if its owner is not.
❖ ❖ *>
“Pelga”: Some half-dozen years ago
a quite wealthy club in India went into
voluntary liquidation, and we ex-members
were informed that the shekels would be
distributed among us. Since then there
has arrived a steady stream of air-mail
correspondence: financial statements
(with payments to old Uncle Tom Cob-
ley and all); notices of meetings ;
forms for proxy voters ; lists of untraced
members; letters from bankers, from
solicitors and from auditors. And now,
at long last, from this Parkinsonian
mountain has come forth a mouse of a
cheque—for “shillings two and pence
two sterling.” There was duty to pay
and two receipts to be sent. How much
better to have given the whole lot to
charity! But then, of course, all those
people wouldn't have had all that work.
“Barrowman”: A .St. Kilda (Vic.)
councillor suggests birching for public-
gardens vandals —and I’m all for it, pro-
vided aspirants for Parliamentary and
municipal honors are included for dis-
figuring bridges, buildings, e.-l. and
other poles, and footpaths during their
election campaigns.
♦> * *
“Hattie Hop”: It had never occurred
to me that dog-owners acquired the
characteristics of their dogs (B.
21/1/ ’59), but I’d often thought that
people have dogs that resemble them-
selves. At one period of her life my
sister went to live in a seaside village,
and in time became a popular member
of its community. At the end of about
three years one of the village ladies re-
marked, “When you first came we
couldn’t stand a bar of you. You always
walked along with your chin up in the
air. But we liked your dog.” Well, her
Scotty also trotted along with chin
elevated. Evidently what was tolerated
in him was resented in his mistress.
*l* *X* +>
“Curio”: For a hotel with a distinc-
tive Australian name (B. 3/12/’5B) what
about the Currency Lass at West Mait-
land (N.S.W.)? Seeking the origin of this
name will introduce the inquirer to some
interesting Australian history as well —
which is surely more than can be said
for the average pub-name.
“ That's his seventeenth doll this summer!"
LUNAR MAN
Above them wails the moon,
Her crater pearls, her speechless
mysteries;
A bove them Luna waits
With gothic-shaded mountains, dropless
seas.
They say not even tears
May fill the seas, no salt nor moving
gleam;
The gulfs are brimmed, they say, with
loneliness,
The lunar quarters roll through icy
dream ■ . .
A body coveted, as pale as snow,
Sun-reflecting globe on orbit planned
Before the first fine dusts and dews of
light
Translated into hitman skull and hand.
But now his eye desires
The eerie conquest, while above his lair
The void reverberates, the cool ellipse
Occurs again in brilliance on the air.
He thought he knew. But all is yet
to find —
The telescope outworn, his feet will tread
Upon the nameless substance, and his
gaze
Devour a world the scholars say is dead.
Maps and Latin, dried astronomers,
All these are fallible. A burning youth
Will stand, one day t upon the moon, and
learn
Terrific truth.
N.Z.
PAULA HANGER BIRCH.


Watched a team of New Austra-
lians playing the locals in a South
Coast (N.S.W.) country cricket-match,
sitting next to the wife of one who had
distinguished himself by scoring a
century. This didn't satisfy her. She
berated him roundly when he was
dismissed. I finally sorted out from her
stream of invective that the other bats-
men hit the ball a few times, got out,
and came in and kept their wives and
girl-friends company —but not Josef ; he
thought so little of his wife that he
stayed at the wicket for hours!
“Stumped."
♦t*
“Warbler”: At 10 p.m., hearing a not
unmusical sound from the kitchen, I
investigated and found it came from the
whistling - kettle, put - on in preparation
for my wife’s first hot-water bottle for
1959. The date was January 27 ; place,
Sydney. Js this a record?
♦> *>
“Eureka”: Let. me tell “Barrowman”
(B. 21/1/ ’59) that there were two con-
temporary peanut-vendors named Percy
—Percy Brunton and Percy MacDonald.
Most likely it was MacDonald at the
Brewarrina show, since Brunton con-
fined his activities to Sydney. Brunton
sat for Parliament and had his dodgers
pasted all over his peanut-cart, but he
polled fewer than 100 votes. MacDonald
was better known for having found a
rat’s tail in a meat pie he was eating,
and, later on, a piece of glass in an ice-
cream. His alleged discoveries landed
him in jail.
♦*+
“Bo”: The pronunciamento mentioned,
inter alia, “. . . . has given to our presi-
dent the documents relative to his new
Revolutionary line,” and 1 immediately
had visions of the greasy Head of State
of some microscopic banana republic
skipping across the nearest border with
the contents of the national peter, with
the incoming rebel regime bringing
succor to his oppressed subjects by giving
all dissidents immediate injections of hot
lead. Then I took a closer look and
noted that the president was of the “Inter-
national Coiffure de Dames,” who would
be arriving in Sydney from Europe and
the U.S., where he had been studying
the development of Fashion Groups
which “diffuse Monsieur Guillaume, the
Great, creator of hair-styles.” So
M’sieu Bill, the Great, fiddles around
with women’s topknots—shades of Peter,
Alexander and Catherine!
“T”: There are the ready makings of
a sturdy sermon in this season’s wheat
harvest in the Victorian Mallee, a
Biblical note in a modern Australian self-
help version. Around Robinvale, which
is close to the N.S.W. border, Catholic
farmers are again reaping the part of
their crop earmarked for the support and
expansion of their church and its schools.
The two priests of the district, in old
clothes and broad-brimmed hats, are
TLI lA
'tmjL tA 'Vila*
pulling their weight in the harvest toil.
This pastoral shows the pioneer religious
spirit joyfully alive in the tractor age.
, + +
*** *** v
“Wusslean”: Rational clothing for
men just hasn’t a chance of taking-on
in Melbourne. During our recent heat-
wave I sweltered in my ali-wool sac-
suit throughout a day when the tern-
perature soared to 109. Next morning,
braving smiles from my staff, 1 wore
white tennis-shorts and an open-necked
•shirt. Early in the afternoon the cool
change arrived ; feeling slightly foolish,
I put on my suit for the journey home.
To cope with Melbourne’s weather you
need a valet hovering around with a
portable wardrobe and changing-tent.
* * *
« tXT a r> » a i • ~
N.A.B. : As we swung along in the
car back from Duntroon my host re-
marked that the American war-memorial
was on the left, on the hillside. I was
prepared to take it as read, but he in-
sisted that I make an inspection. There’s
a 6ft.-square moat, full of water, at the
foot of a gracious column. I was told
this was an addition, placed there after
tourists insisted on scratching their names
on the aluminium plinth. These were
sandpapered off, or in some other way
removed, but-even since then some people
have taken their boots off—or walked
through the water—to do a hearty bit of
defiling.
“Mugga Way”: The ideas of the
horror-comics seem to be taking serious
shape in many ways. The latest, and
quite logical, development is that electric
computers will eventually be made to
“think.” A group of scientists from
several countries met recently at the
National Physical Laboratory at Ted-
dington, England, to examine the possi-
bility, and came up with theories about
electric analogues of cell-groups which
would respond to chosen stimuli as an
animal intelligence might respond. Possi-
bilities discussed at Teddington (and
in ! ome c f es demonstrated) included
machines for translating languages;
machines using the principles of the retina
tbe l e^/e , to rea d a variety of type and
eve " handwritten figures; typewriters
™ or } ed b F dictation ; and apparatus for
finding any given book in a library,
,■»<.
“Kenyas”: It wasn’t only in the bath-
rooms of the Dangar property near
Singleton (B. 14/1 /’59) that warnings
were pasted-up about waste of water. In
the rectory bathroom of that town hung
a notice informing users that “Three-
inches of water in the bath is enough
for bishop, priest or layman.”
J
♦> ♦> ***
.
Penelope : Rarity ol waitresses in
the 6d. hash-house days (B. 21/11 59)
reminded me. We were thiee little maids
from school (Fort Street) where we
were sitting for Sydney High School
entrance-exam. Lunchtime adventure
took us into a sixpenny -joint in
lower George Street Noith. We weie
tb ? females there save for a
skinny, slatternly waitress in diab blouse
shirt, no cap, no apron, and, ot
course, no make-up. Over her let t arm
hung an almost black tea-towel. The
soup we rejected. At the hash we could
only peck. Came the dessert. “It’s blue
monge,” she said. It was blue, like
blued boiled starch. The cashier, an
enormously fat man, neatly dressed in his
Sunday best, probably the proprietor,
offered us toothpicks as we paid our
sixpences, and seemed surprised, when,
instead of taking them, we laughed our
girlish laughter and fled. Next day, at
a three-course-for-ls. restaurant in the


same locality, we couldn't fault the good
food—generous helpings of Scotch broth,
roast lamb and mint-sauce with potatoes,
pumpkin and fresh green peas, jelly and
custard. Jt was serviced mainly by
waiters, but there were one or two cap-
less, apronless waitresses. The first
waitresses were apt to be slow-moving,
and it was the drill to take a book to read
while you waited between courses. By
World War 1 they had come into their
own, and many a restaurant was
patronised as much for its pretty and
efficient waitresses as for its meals.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ymar”: At the free library we were
filling-in new cards for triennial regis-
tration. On the question of hobbies Mrs.
Retired-Banker promptly declared hers
was work ; her husband as promptly
said beer. But this, much as he liked
the sound of it, he reluctantly discarded,
because it just wasn't true.
* ♦!«
“Piketrailer” (Bahrein): As a former
inhabitant of Cyprus, I fully agreed with
the London “Times,” referring to the
Colonial Secretary’s visit to Gibraltar,
that “it is refreshing to be able to report
on a British Mediterranean colony that
has no crisis on its hands.” However,
the “Times” sobered-up to add that one
of the two events that could “knock the
gilt off Gibraltar's gingerbread was
increased clamor from Spain.” I was
reminded of a curious custom practised
in Gib. for many years as a result of
one of the Spanish sieges, probably the
siege of 1779-83. The Queen of Spain
vowed that she would sit in a chair on
a spot still, apparently, known as “The
Queen of Spain's Chair” until she saw
the British flag over Gibraltar hauled
down. The English general, on hearing
this, “not wishing to incommode the
lady” but having no intention of sur-
rendering, ordered that the colors should
be dipped five minutes before sunset.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Barrowman”: Demise of the Austra-
lian Club Hotel, Bourke Street (Melb.),
between Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
reminds me that at various times the
late Roger Dillon was mine-host of the
other four hostelries in the same area:
New York, Victoria, Metropole and
Saracen’s Head. Now only the Metro-
pole marks the spot —with an XXX.
4*4 4*4 4*4
“0.W.W.”: Overseas publications have
been hard to get in N.Z. since import-
restrictions, and secondhand-magazine
shops are having a mild boom. A woman
I know, who once scorned such places,
now 'picks-up odd copies of favorite
prints there. She says she “plays safe”;
all magazines she buys are put away in
moth-balls for a week to make them
germ-free.
❖ ❖ ❖
“An Chuidh”: They generally do
much better, but last week the Mary-
borough (Vic.) “Advertiser” had a full
page comparing the Highland gatherings
at Maryborough with Braemar. It would
have been much better if throughout they
hadn't spelt Highland with a small “h.”
Scotland is divided into two parts, the
Highlands and the Lowlands. The High-
lands contain the largest areas of low-
land Scotland and the Lowlands contain
a great deal of highlands. The Highlands
once spoke nothing but Gaelic and the
“It’s good for his character after bossing people around all day at the office."
Lowlands now speak Lallans. The divi-
sion is ethnological and linguistic, and
has nothing to do with highland or low-
land areas. From one come the families
of Scott, Logan, Kerr, etc., and from the
other the clans of MacGregor, Donald,
MacLeod, etc. Much of the Highlands
is islands, and the bulk of the population
live just above sea-level.
❖ * *!♦
“Spin”: When a Perth lad found a
five-gallon steel beer-barrel in the bush
he rang a brewery and was told it was
their property. After waiting several
weeks he rang again ; and finally, six
months after finding it he gave the barrel
to a friend, who painted it and used it
as a mooring-buoy. The friend was
charged with stealing and receiving, but
the Beak found him not guilty and
allowed him to keep the keg on the
grounds that by neglecting to claim it
the brewery had abandoned ownership.
KEEPING NATIONAL WATCH
“Switzerland’s male voters overwhelmingly
rejected a proposal to allow women to vote
in Federal elections and run for national office.”
In less enlightened lands than Switzerland
{Ours, say ) men stand
For women’s rights, one being that they
may
Indulge in voting.
With what result? Well, take a gink or
two
At M.P.s who
Botch-up the works while drawing
princely pay,
As you’ll be noting.
But where bloometh the edelweiss, the
cheese
They chain to trees
In case it may escape; where they
refrain
From using a navy,
To turf-out Governments dolls are lacking
scope.
And they’ve no hope
Of reaching office, climbing aboard the
train
Yanks term “The Gravy •”
You couldn't accuse Swiss blokes of
being, like us,
Uxorious.
They keep ’em under their thumbs, and
tolerate
No agitation.
No alpine Pankhurst there can kick at
cops
Or placard shops,
Determinedly trying to postulate
Emancipation.
A very peaceful land is Switzerland,
Where dames can’t stand
And ear-bash from a soap-box, wag-
ging chin
To gain “improvement.”
Opposition from men to this New Deal
Is very real.
It springs, I fancy, from a genuine
Swiss movement!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


"O emark of a high - ranking Naval
officer inspecting his new home
in Canberra, one of the £BOOO homes
in choice Canberra positions provided
by the Government for the more-
favored of the Defence staff moving
from Melbourne: “I’m not going to live
in a hovel. Where can I buy a house?”
Canberra’s hostel-dwellers may therefore
thank their stars — non hovel, sed hostel!
—“S.S.”
<s*
“Pip Tok”: At 15 Peter Walmsley, of
Broken Hill, won his 18th solo cham-
pionship (this time, the tenor horn) in
the Australian band-contests in Perth.
He proposes to take-up cornet-playing,
but will concentrate on the piano, and
take music as one of his leaving-
certificate subjects this year. Last year
he won the “champion of champions”
contest in N.S.W.
“Sackfair”: Tin Pan Alley lyric-
writers get it easy these days. Most hit-
parade numbers finish by repeating the
last word at least five times, while in
some the whole lyric seems to consist of
just one word. There is the gem that
repeats “Gingerbread” approximately 82
times. “Lollipop” would, I’d say, slightly
outnumber it, with “Forget Me Not”
qualifying for third place. Maybe that
was why a Sydney store which amplifies
records for the edification of its cus-
tomers allowed a cracked record to re-
peat itself for a full 20 minutes.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Durian”: Speak not disparagingly
(B. 21/1 /’59) of printed matter adorning
that little room. At Victor Harbor, S.A.,
I commented appreciatively on the map
on the door of the privy, and my hostess,
mother of three young schoolgoers,
said their geography had been substan-
tially improved by such maps, which
are attractively legended and illustrated
with “Here grow sheep,” “Here are
opals,” and so on.
♦l* ❖
“0.W.W.”: Counter - lunch is coming
again in N.Z. hotels to woo back cus-
tomers who left when booze prices
soared. West - coast hotels began it
around Christmas, and now Palmerston
North pubs (good places for bar-feeds
till early last year) are turning-on savory
snacks for free round five-o’clock
❖ ❖ ❖
“0.G.”: The girl next-door was com-
plaining that her cousin had lost his
job through slackness in the lead-mining
industry. “Can you wonder at it?” said
the woman at the upstairs-window.
“When I went to school we did nearly
all our writing with pencils but
nowadays every kid has a pocketful of
ball-point pens!”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Pat”: The two middle-aged business-
men who shared my table for morning
coffee were well away on the theme
of places where
women shouldn’t be
seen ; so I listened
absorbedly. “Cocktail-
parties,” boomed the
more eloquent
type; “never stand
near a woman at a
cocktail-party. Take
last night—l dropped-
in to help celebrate
old B’s fiftieth. Good
show! Plenty of grog!
She was a jolly nice-
looking woman, too.
And intelligent . . .
well, I thought so at
first. Anyway, we were
talking golf, stand-
ing right up against
the bar, old boy,
and I reached out to
pour myself another
scotch - and - water.
Tooka swallow—and,
I tell you, had to spit
it right out. The stuff
would have killed me.
Well, I said to the
lass: ‘lf that’s scotch,
I’m a New Guinea
fuzzy-wuzzy.’ She just
grinned and said, ‘lt’s scotch, all right.
I thought you were funny, mixing it
with gin!’ Knew all the time it was gin
and not water, mind you, and didn’t
peep a word. Said she thought I must
like my scotch the cocktail way. That’s
women for you, old boy!”
♦J*
“Mabel”: She had been in Australia
only a short time when a man who had
called on her son said, “So long for now.
See you later!” An hour or so later she
was still sitting up awaiting his return.
Another “Nino Culotta” was working
on the roads, and the rest of the gang
were playing cards down a manhole.
“You keep watch,” they told him, “and
sing out if you see the boss coming.”
So when the boss came into view our
Nino sang Italian opera with all his
might. But his mates took no notice,
and afterwards, when the row had sub-
sided, they fell upon him: “Why didn’t
you sing out?” they demanded. “But
I sing,” he protested ; “why you take
no notice?”
❖ ♦> ❖
“Myall”: Cantering along Brisbane’s
Kingsford Smith Drive by night was a
horse, and attached to the back of the
rider’s shirt was a bicycle reflector!
“N.A.Z.”: Our personal glamor-girl
was worried about her freckles conve: t-
ing her into a hideous monster whom
none of the young men could bear to
face. From the chemist she obtained
a jar of freckle-cream so strong that it
would remove the spots from a Dal-
matian —according to the chemist. For
reasons best known to younger brothers,
her younger brother changed the label
and substituted a jar of white shoe-
cleaner for the miracle-cream. Return-
“Even with his bifocals he cant see to read the paper”
ing late from a dance, she creamed her
face lavishly ; and next morning was
amazed to find the cream had not only
removed her freckles but also bleached
her skin. She was disappointed only that
the results were not even, as her finger-
strokes were visible. Brother now asks
for freckle-cream to clean his sandshoes,
but only when he is sure that he is well
out of range.
“Fontaine”: Estate-agents are really
encouraging speculation. 1 found it easy
to pick the old reliables, “spac. D.F.W.B.
home,” “every poss. mod. conv.,” and
the newer “W.-W. carp.”; but it took me
a little time to decipher “cor. pos.,”
“R.O.W. at rear,” “beaut, app.” and
“lovely 0.Y.0. flat.” “8.1. C.” and “sep.
shr. rec.” had me stumped until I thought
of “built-in cupboards” and “separate
shower-recess.” Most houses advertised
are not, as in the old days, “five mins,
from station,” but “cl. tpt.” One agent,
determined to outdo his rivals on this
point, advertised, “close everything”—
vowels and all.
❖ ♦♦♦
“Sackfair”: I’ve educated myself into
accepting the assurance that a mumbling
blues-singer has a “colossal voice,” an
eight-stone girl a “colossal figure,” and
so on ; but I was caught off-balance by
a remark drifting over the back of a
train-seat: “You know how big Jack
is, don’t you? Well, his sheila’s just
the opposite—she’s colossally small.”
N.S.W.
When I was very young my dad
Reproached me for mistakes I made;
But now I’m many birthdays older,
My boy assumes the role of scolder:
So, reconciled to mild abuse,
I ask you simply: “What’s the use ?”
P.O.M.C.


POLITICAL POINTS
Come on, Joe. Tom’s taken the plunge.
What about you?
• •
Macmillan’s trip to Moscow is a return
visit for the one B. and K. made to
London three years ago. But Mac must
be careful not to ask K. how his old
friend B. is doing.
• •
Preliminary inquiries by the Melbourne
Tramways Board into the possibility of
recruiting staff from among unemployed
on the N.S.W. coalfields have been
attacked in Newcastle as a political stunt
designed to embarrass the Cahill Gov-
ernment by drawing attention to the
higher incidence of unemployment in
N.S.W. as compared with Victoria. The
argument is rather far-fetched. It is not
likely that many miners will elect to
switch to a completely different type of
work and in another State, but that’s no
reason for belittling the motives of the
Tramways Board in giving them the
chance to do so.
• •
If Errol Flynn’s excursion into the
Cuban civil-war zone is ever filmed it
will probably be revealed that he inter-
vened just in time to prevent President
Batista from blowing-up the Maine
and starting the Spanish-American war.
In an earlier film Errol led the Charge
of the Light Brigade in order to avenge
the massacre at Cawnpore two years
before it happened.
• •
Nominations for the South Australian
general election will close next Tuesday
(February 17) and polling-day will be
March 7. The 1956 election gave Play-
ford’s L.C.L. Government a majority of
three (two after appointing a Speaker),
but in by-elections since then Labor has
won Wallaroo from the Libs, and Mt.
Gambier, held for many years by an
Independent. The state of the parties
before the death of C. L. Davis, Labor
member for Port Pirie, a fortnight ago
was L.C.L., 20 ; Labor 17 ; Independents,
2. For the past two years the Govern-
ment has been dependent on the support
of Independents.
• •
A resolution passed by the A.C.T.U.
at its Hobart conference called on the
Federal Government to resume diplo-
matic relations with Russia. It may be
only a technical point, but it was
Moscow, not Canberra, that broke-off
diplomatic relations.
The three-man commission that will
redraw the electoral boundaries for the
Queensland Assembly was appointed last
week. Public Service Commissioner
D. W. Fraser is chairman and his two
colleagues are Surveyor-General J. P.
Harvey and barrister P. F. Wright.
Under the plan assigned them the
State will be divided into 78 electorates
—three more than at present. The
metropolitan zone will include 28 seats,
the provincial zone —comprising the large
towns —will have 12 and there will be
38 country seats.
• •
One of the strangest cargoes ever to
cross the Atlantic left the Gulf of Mexico
last week for England—2ooo tons of
natural gas, consigned to the North
Thames Gas Board and intended to be
fed into London gas-mains. Liquefied
for transport, it takes up about one-six-
hundredth of the space it occupies as
a gas.
• •
The International Wool Textile Organ-
isation has decided to list the Australian
Wool Testing Authority as an official
public testing establishment. This means
that certificates issued by the authority
to indicate the condition of Australian
wool will in future receive international
recognition. Announcing this, Minister
for Primary Industry Adermann said
that work at the new Melbourne testing-
centre was well ahead of schedule and
tests on woollen textiles were now being
undertaken. Centres had also been estab-
lished in Sydney and Perth.
He added that a “seal of quality”
scheme for woollen fabrics, which was a
necessary step in the battle with synthetic
fibres, had been introduced. The object
of this was to assist in setting standards
of performance of woollen fabrics and
garments, including those that had been
subjected to various treatments to
improve the already outstanding
attributes of pure wool.
• •
“Stromlo”: Tasmanian Senator Reg
Wright has thrown another pebble into
the ruffled pool of Federal-State financial
relationships by suggesting that the
States should be constitutionally guaran-
teed a proportion (to be worked-out on
the basis of the figures for the last 20
years) of customs and excise revenue as
well as income tax. Critics have pointed
out that this would bring the tariff much
further into the political arena than at
present —but this mightn’t be a bad thing.
Anyway, some discussion of the point
might be useful at present, with import
restrictions and quotas, with all their
gross inequalities, apparently likely to
remain permanent blots on the economy.
• •
“Tilly Tas”: As far as I can ascertain,
no one in Tasmania was consulted about
naming the new Bass Strait ferry “Prin-
cess of Tasmania” (B. 31/12/ ’5B). This
is apparently a purely Commonwealth
prerogative. We’ve a feeling that far
from adding a royal touch to Tassie she’ll
eventually be known as “The Pot.”
• •
Although the bison gag earned Premier
Cahill 10 dollars, he didn’t have it quite
right. A bison’s not to wash your hands
in ; it’s to wash your fyce in.
ANOTHER STRUGGLE FOR "THE ASHES"


Paying a tribute to former Tasmanian
Premier, Sir Robert Cosgrove, at a dinner
in Launceston last month, the Prime
Minister remarked that to be Premier
of Tasmania for even 12 months argued
a degree of agility comparable to that
of a three-legged man. To be Premier
for 19 years was “almost unbelievable.”
Menzies said he had dealt with Cosgrove
over many years of Premiers’ con-
ferences and Loan Council meetings, and
had never dealt with a man with a more
civilised and co-operative approach. He
added that the Federal Government
would like Cosgrove’s party to go out
of office in Tasmania “with the assurance
that your friends are not only of your
own party.”
e •
Urging the Labor party in W.A. to
go out after the votes of young people
and women, Calwell said, “Women have
kept us out since 1949.” Arthur must feel
a trifle envious of Swiss politicians who
can’t be kept out by women because
they make sure they keep the women out.
• •
Russia’s new bid for Berlin gives point
to the fact that Red rule is so detested
in East Germany that in 1958 there were
204,000 refugees to West Germany. The
figure is. a little smaller than previous years,
when the sealing-off of the zonal boun-
daries wasn't so brutal and complete as
last year. In the 1958 total, there were
3012 teachers (including 341 university
professors and scientific assistants), 2079
engineers and technicians, £O9l
physicians, 152 pharmacists, and 1685
classified as “other members of the in-
telligentsia.” Many local functionaries
were among those who sought freedom.
• •
For the first time on record men in
the most-marriageable age-group (20-29)
in Britain outnumber women. Taking the
whole population, however, females are
still easily in the majority.
• •
Criticising the proposed Development
Bank, Wheeler,, M.H.R., said that it was
unlikely to function as the farmers might
wish. He recalled that the Rural Bank
of N.S.W. had tied millions of pounds
in advances to a cement company while
“the farmers have been left lamenting
to the tune of £4£ million which could
have been devoted to their needs.”
This brought from Rural Bank presi-
dent McKerihan the retort that it was
unfair to suggest that primary-producer
clients of his bank had suffered as a
result of the loan granted to the cement
company:
The primary-producer clients of the
bank have been treated as well as, if not
better than, the primary-producer clients of
any other banking institution.
And, what’s more, there’s probably no
other banking institution that has treated
its cement-company clients as well as the
Rural Bank has treated Metropolitan
Cement.
• •
At the end of January the sterling
area’s central reserves of gold and notes
stood at £stg.llll million. With the
exception of December last the reserves
have risen every month since September
1957, when they were only £stg66l
million.
• •
Attorney-General Barwick, opening the
£BOO,OOO Commonwealth Conciliation and
Arbitration building in Melbourne, said
that whatever the position might be else-
where it was impossible in Australia to
leave great industrial issues to unsuper-
vised bargaining between employer and
employee “when the economy is so
dependent on widely fluctuating export-
markets, local and seasonal influence and
tariff protection for secondary industry.”
Consequently conciliation tribunals
must exist not merely to iron-out issues
on which the parties cannot agree but
also to supervise what they desire to do
in order to prevent damage to the com-
munity as a whole.
• «
During last year’s London County
Council elections the Labor party flooded
the city with leaflets about rents. The
top of one read: “Tories Threaten Big
Rent Rises for L.C.C. Tenants.” The
bottom read: “Do not give the Tories
the chance to introduce this measure.
Vote Labor.” Labor candidates won a
record majority on the Council. Last
October they announced rent rises, vary-
ing up to 6s. 6d. a week, for the 190,000
tenants.
n m
J. F. McGrath, N. S. Wales Minister
for Public Works, is retiring from politics
at the end of the present Parliament. He
has represented Rockdale since 1941 and
has been in Cabinet for six years.
Rockdale is one of Labor’s shaky seats.
McGrath’s majority was only 579 at the
last election, and although boundary
adjustments have slightly improved
Labor’s position since then, this gain has
been outweighed by the intrusion of a
D.L.P. candidate.
McGrath says his decision to stand-
down was made some time ago and was
not determined by the announcement that
the D.L.P. would nominate a candidate.
Lie has been in ill-health for some time.
D. McLelland, who was beaten by L. J.
Reynolds for preselection in Barton when
the Doc. moved to Hunter, is tipped as
most likely to get the A.L.P. nomination
for Rockdale.
• •
The North Queensland New State
Movement will hold its fourth conven-
tion at Innisfail some time in May.
• •
After a brief and unspectacular career
in Federal politics in Curtin’s day, Dr.
Gaha, of Hobart, retired to the less-
glamorous but still fascinating field of
Tasmanian politics. Now, in the dying
days of Labor’s administration of the
island, he has become a senior Minister,
taking the post of Chief Secretary in
place of White, who becomes Agent-
General. There have been a bewildering
number of changes in the Cabinet since
Reece became Premier—and the electors
will soon have a chance of making more.
• •
“Ex-ACT”: Terms of reference of the
last committee of inquiry into salaries
and allowances of Federal parliamen-
tarians referred to the necessity or
desirability for an “alteration,” not for
an increase. Presumably, similar wording
will be used this time, although no one
inside the Parliament will expect any-
thing except an “alteration” upwards.
The committee will presumably ask why
some of its 1955 recommendations were
not adopted, but in the light of its find-
ings on that occasion it may find .it
difficult to recommend any major in-
creases.
o •
“Ardoyne”: When Melbourne’s Tram-
ways Board introduced the “silent” tram-
car, sceptics claimed that the new rolling-
stock was, if anything, even noisier than
the old variety. Possibly the silence was
audible only to the perceptive ears of
the board, which persistently lauded its
own efforts at noise-reduction, in spite
of the public’s apathy. Now it has come-
up with another wonder —plastic-coated
rails, which the makers claim could re-
duce the noise of Melbourne’s trams by
50 per cent. Of course, there are a few
cranks who say that the tramcar din
could be reduced by 100 per cent, at one
fell swoop—by scrapping the trams and
using trolley-buses. But the board has
littie interest in such heretical notions.
• •
Woolgrower Bolte got a withering
reply from Douglas Cox, chairman of the
National Association of Garment Manu-
facturers, when he suggested the manu-
facturers and retailers of wool should
subsidise the Australian Wool Bureau’s
new promotion drive. He was reminded
that firms handling synthetic fibres paid
the manufacturers and retailers to handle
their goods by backing their advertising
and promotions.
Cox, an important figure in the gar-
ment industry, wants to handle more of
what he continually advertises as the
best fibre on the market, but complains
that the synthetic firms have created a
guaranteed, good product, use top-rate
promotional men, join with manufac-
turers and retailers in selling and use
first-rate advertising. He doesn’t want an
expert to promote wool ; he wants a
panel of them.
• •
“D”: Melbourne is to have helicopters
to bring air-passengers into the city from
the airports and also to run services be-
tween out-lying suburbs ; and the Navy
has steamed-up out of the Bay haze to
announce they’d like some, too. Diffi-
culty is said to be to find a city site ;
but that doesn’t seem to cause any trouble
at Flemington, where the Governor and
Reg Ansett occasionally drop in or out
of a helicopter on the steeplechase track,
about the width of a Melbourne street.


Personal
ITEMS
Recently joined the board of the
Trustees, Executors and Agency Co.,
Ltd., Rear-Admiral H. J. Buchanan,
C.8.E., D. 5.0., was educated at Scotch
College, Melbourne, and the Royal Aus-
tralian Naval College, Jervis Bay. He
became Second Naval Member in 1953,
and was promoted Rear-Admiral as Flag-
officer-in-charge, Eastern Australian Area
in 1955. Retiring in 1957, he became
a director of Bell’s Asbestos and Engi-
neering (Aust.), Ltd.
• •
“Uramao”: When one of Britain’s
latest and largest cruisers takes to the
water next year, an Enzedder, Captain
R. E. Washbourn, D. 5.0., 0.8. E., R.N.,
will command her. H.M.S. Tiger, 9550
tons and 31 knots, is one of three new
cruisers, the first to be built since the
end of War 11. Washbourn went from
Nelson College to join the Royal Navy
as a cadet. He was gunnery-officer in
Achilles at the Battle of the River Plate.
A brother, Commander J. E. Washbourn,
R.N.Z.N., is in command of the Antarctic
supply-ship H.M.N.Z.S. Endeavour.
• •
In Victoria on a three-month survey
of investment opportunities, L. Victor
Riches is manager of the Area Develop-
ment Research Department of the
Stanford Research Institute, California
(U.S.A.). He is being joined shortly
by his colleague, Carl A. Trexel, and
the pair will study Victoria's physical,
human and capital resources, production-
methods and industrial climate. The
project is the first research-programme of
its kind undertaken in Australia and
will precede the April mission of Premier
Bolte to the U.S.A. and Europe.
• •
“Asphar”: The first opera in which
aborigines have acted had its premiere
the other day at the Somerville Audi-
torium at the Westralian University. It
was James Pemberthy’s “Dalgerie,” with
libretto by Mary Durack Miller and
based on her novel, Keep Him My
Country. Pemberthy, whose father taught
him music from the time he was a
youngster, is a Westralian of Cornish
stock, and was first commissioned to
write an opera in Europe in 1953. This
was “The Whip,” and it was followed
by “Larry,” the story of a mission-bred
half-caste lad ; then “The Earth Mother”
(libretto by Donald Stuart); “Ophelia of
Nine-mile Beach,” the story of a
suburban housewife ; and “Bullock
Driver,” based on one of Lance Sku-
thorpe’s best-known stories. The success
of “Dalgerie” should lead to an airing
for more of Pemberthy’s work.
Herewith Mac Cailein Mhor, chief of
Clan Campbell, hereditary Master of the
Royal Household in Scotland, Admiral
of the Western Coast and Isles, Keeper
of the Great Seal of Scotland and of the
Castles of Dunstaffnage, Dunoon and
Carrick and Tarbert.
lan Douglas Campbell, 11th Duke of
TOP OF THE CLAN
Argyll, holds, among his other titles,
those of Baronet of Lundy, 36th Baron
and 45th Knight of Lochow. Born in
Paris and educated in the United States
and at Christ Church, Oxford, he served
in War II as a captain in the Argyll and
Sutherland Highlanders. He is possibly
best-known for his spectacular efforts to
recover a treasure sunk in a Spanish
galleon in Tobermory Bay, Isle of Mull.
Holidaying in Australia, he has been
kept busy meeting the many members of
his clan and hopes to form a branch
of the clan here. He is keenly interested
in forestry and farming, and is finding
plenty to engage his attention on this trip.
• •
O. L. Davis, senior External Affairs
officer at Australia House, London, be-
comes Australian High Commissioner to
South Africa. He previously acted as
High Commissioner in New Zealand and
has had experience in Washington and
Karachi.
• •
Victorian branch - manager of the
Orient Line, R. H. Norman, who retired
on New Year’s Eve after 50 years with
the company, served with distinction with
the A.I.F. in both world wars, reaching
the rank of Brigadier in the second. His
successor is R. H. Flett, formerly Queens-
land branch-manager.
• •
Dr. Angus McNeil, who died in
Sydney last week, was to have succeeded
Dr. John Hunter as leader of the B.M.A.
He was one of the McNeils of Kempsey
(N.S.W.), who came originally of the
McNeils of Barra —of those rocky isles
of Whisky Galore! off the west coast of
Scotland, where Johnson and Boswell ven-
tured out a little way on their Tour,
where Walter Scott got some of his
wild coast for rhyme and story, and
where Compton Mackenzie spends much ‘of
his time these days. They came to Aus-
tralia via Nova Scotia over a century ago
(the Chief of the Clan was here, too, on a
visit not long since), and for many years now
they have been linked with Kempsey, up on the
Macleay River. In an earlier mention in these
pages it was noted that at that time there
were four generations of Angus McNeils living
there. Now two of them remain—by the
inexorableness of destined things, the oldest
and the youngest. The oldest Angus McNeil
had his 90th birthday in Kempsey last Sunday ;
the youngest is a boy in Sydney. The second-
generation Angus McNeil died in Sydney last
June; and now his son has also died in Sydney,
from injuries caused by the simplest of acci-
dents, when he stepped from his car on the
drive near his own front-door, and the car
somehow got started and crushed him. Two
years ago, still in his thirties, this third-
generation Angus McNeil had sold his doctor’s
practice in Kempsey, and had moved to Sydney
to be Dr. John Hunter's right-hand man and
chosen successor as general-secretary of the
B.M.A. Before that he had been hon. secretary
of the B.M.A.’s eastern division, which covers
a large part of the N.S.W. North Coast, and
had also been Mayor of Kempsey and the
Diggers’ choice as leader there in both the
R.S.L. and Legacy, having himself served with
the A.A.M.C. in War M. He was lithe, bright,
vital; a good surgeon; a sterling character.
• •
Spending two months visiting the
Lithuanian Community in Australia and
New Zealand, Vincent Brizgys, exiled
Lithuanian Catholic Bishop, has come
from the U.S.A. Born at Marijampole
(Lithuania), he was ordained in 1927 and
consecrated coadjutor - bishop of the
archdiocese of Kannas in 1940. When
the Communists occupied Lithuania in
1944, he left for the West and has since
been a spokesman for his church and
country.
• •
Sir Alexander Carr-Saunders, currently
visiting Australia, retired two years ago
from the directorship of London Univer-
sity’s School of Economics. An Oxford
graduate, with 19 years at London Uni-
versity, he specialised in economics,
eugenics, population problems and
migration trends, and is the author of
several books on those subjects. He con-
siders that present-day students begin to
specialise too early, often at the expense
of general education, and advocates a
higher school-leaving age. He predicts
that the leaving-age will be raised in the
U.K. within the next few years. While


in Australia he will put-in five months
as guest at the National University, Can-
berra, and hopes to visit and lecture at
other Australian universities.
• •
When the Victorian Supreme Court
reopens, its senior puisne judge Sir
Charles Lowe, will begin his 33rd year
of service a record term for that
Bench. Appointed in 1927 under the old
law which prescribed no retiring-age, Sir
Charles, now 78, makes so few conces-
sions to his years that he is still a familiar
figure on the No. 8 tram from his home
in Toorak.
A Dickensian air of quizzical dryness
has distinguished him since early in life,
and his sharp wit, allied to a legal quality
of understatement, underlies the gravity
of his demeanor. Off the Bench, he is
busy in good causes. When going to the
State school at Panmure, the obscure
western-Vic. township where he was born,
he used to walk nine miles in the evening
for extra lessons. They evidently went
into a receptive mind.
• •
Called at The Bulletin office the other
day, Russell Cole, a constant reader
since 1895. His father worked at the
London Bank of Australia in Oxford
Street (London) and came to Melbourne,
where Cole was born. In 1907, Cole
moved to Sydney to work at the Bank
of New South Wales head-office. He
remembers when the bank had its own
hansom-cab to travel round the metro-
politan branches, also the first electric-
light being put in and the tramrails being
put down in George Street —they had
just been torn-up when he called.
Cole (sketched) accepted a challenge to
go up the new 18-floor 1.C.1. building in
Melbourne. Climbing the stairs two at
a time, he reached the top in seven
minutes flat and claims a record for the
course. In War I he went overseas with
the 4th Division Ammunition Column.
TOP OF THE HOUSE
“Xavier”: After 21 years as an oil-
company executive, W. J. (Bill) Wain
leaves Brisbane to join the sugar industry
at Townsville (Q.). A soldier of both
world wars, he left Australia in 1940 a
major in the 2/16th Battalion, served
throughout the Syrian campaign and later
commanded the 2/43rd Battalion.
Wounded at El Alamein when a lieut.-
colonel, he collected a “mention” and
subsequently a D.S.O.
• •
A recent promotion announced by the
Vatican is that of the Rev. Father John
Yobst to the rank of titular Bishop of
Pitane and Vicar Apostolic of the Kim-
berleys. Born in Germany, like his pre-
decessor, Bishop Otto Raible, he came
to Westralia nine years ago, and' spent
three years in the Kimberleys district
before moving to the eastern States. At
present he is spiritual director of the
Pallotine College in Sydney.
• •
Phil Dorter: Sydney, and particularly
its theatre, is the poorer for the passing
of Raoul Cardamatis, Greek-born and
German - educated Macquarie Street
specialist, who first learned about
theatre from watching Max Reinhardt’s rehear-
sals —in those days in Germany rehearsals were
open to the public for a modest price. Not
long ago, when he produced Anouilh's “The
Lark” at Doris Fitton’s Independent Theatre,
North Sydney, he was delighted when I referred
to him as “the old master of the difficult,” and
it was a title he thoroughly deserved. A play
that held no real challenge to his talents as a
producer did not interest him; more often than
not, by adding his own ideas, he made the
task more difficult. If the resulting production
sometimes carried little popular appeal and
generally cost Cardy a lot of money, it was
always imaginative and highly intelligent
theatre, and one inevitably went away the
richer for having seen it. A dynamic and
widely cultured personality—and a very lovable
one —he produced about 75 plays in the past
25 years. He was also a regular first-nighter
at any worthwhile production and, with his
short and powerful figure, expressive features
and emphatic tones, was always the centre of
a group of interested and appreciative listeners.
• •
Harley O’Regan knows something
about transport. He started at the age
of 16, working in his father’s firm as a
wharfloader, and, as soon as he was old
enough for a licence, started driving. (The
firm then had eight trucks and about 20
horses.) He took time off with the
R.A.A.F. in the war, collecting a D.F.C.
Then he came back to Sydney to take-
over the family business, now R. H.
O’Regan (Carriers), Ltd., with 70 trucks
and 120 employees.
This week, O’Regan’s brainchild, a
heavy-duty low-loader, which operates
both as a road-vehicle or a railway-truck,
leaves Adelaide on the biggest heavy-lift
journey ever made on land. It will carry
electrical equipment weighing about 70
tons on each of the 1700-mile trips to
Mount Isa, and about 1000 tons will be
shifted over the next 18 months. This
vehicle seems to promise the answer to
the transport problem of getting heavy
weights of machinery into such places
as the Northern Territory.
REAR-ADMIRAL H. M . BURRELL,
C.B., C.B.E., Chief of Naval Staff and
First Naval Member.
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 71, Dr. Bruce Hittmann,
formerly senior gynecologist at the Royal
Women’s Hospital, Sydney.
At Port Pirie (S.A.), at 74, Charles Leonard
Davis, M.H.A. for Port Pirie since 1946, and
a former State organiser, executive member and
president of the A.W.U. A councillor of
Port Pirie for 30 years, he was mayor from
1948-57.
At Christchurch (N.Z.), at 73, T. E. Holmes,
former superintendent of police. A native of
Westmoreland and a great athlete in his youth,
he represented England in the tug-of-war at
the 1908 Olympic Games. He went to N.Z.
in 1911 and put in 40 years in the force, mostly
in the detective branch. In War I he rejoined
his former English regiment for the duration.
At Warrnambool (Vic.), Monsignor Eugene
Galligan, Dean of the R.C. parish of Warrnam-
bool for 12 years.
In Melbourne, John Allan Aird, Old Digger
and a Victorian public servant for 44 years.
He was a member of the Closer Settlement
Commission for 16 years and of the Water
Commission for 10 years.
In Adelaide, at 71, Thomas Stanley Cheadle,
member of the Adelaide Chamber of Com-
merce, a chairman of the Adelaide Wool-
brokers’ Association, and S.A. representative
on the Federal Wheat Commission. Also one
of South Australia's best-known amateur
golfers.
At 85, Henry P. Zwar, former M.L.A. for
Preston (Vic.) for 13 years, president of Preston
Football Club for 27 years and president of
the Victorian Football Association for four. He
was the last surviving member of a family of 12.
In Melbourne, at 94, architect Henry William
Tompkins, who designed Melbourne’s first sky-
scrapers. His work included the Centreway,
London Stores, Melbourne “Herald” building
and Ball and Welch’s.
In London, at 84, C. E. Stuart Smith, former
managing-director of Perth Economic Stores.
Born in Edinburgh, he arrived in Westralia in
the 1890’s, and prospected on the goldfields
with Tom Cue, after whom the town of Cue
was named. In 1902 he went into business with
his uncle, Charles Moore, in Melbourne, and
managed department-stores for his uncle's firm
in Perth and Adelaide. He took-over the
management of Economic Stores in Perth in
1932, and held that position until the stores
were sold in 1952.
In Melbourne, at 81, Captain Hector
Mackinnon, who served with the Melbourne
and Geelong Harbor Trusts for 35 years. Born
in the Isle of Skye, Mackinnon served in mine-
sweepers in War I and was called from retire-
ment to become an R.A.N. superintendent in
War 11.


ABORIGINALITIES
T ove-birds? We took-on the two pets
of our England-tripping neighbors,
who briefed us that the hen was a bit
bossy. That was the year’s understate-
ment. The cock-bird ate only after Mum
was replete, and he spent all his time
dejected, silent, scolded and henpecked.
Then she of the restless sex managed to
shake the cage door-catch free, and she
was off for good, out an open window.
He has accomplished a metamorphosis
and jaunts into song with the slightest
encouragement. His plumage is sleek
and iridescent, and he now ventures out
of the cage to twitter on a human fore-
finger. Yesterday while so engaged he
caught sight of a bird through the
window. It might have been a female
the way he rocketed back to his cage
and was songless for at least five minutes.
—“Durian.”
* * '* *
“B. A. Ker”: On the beach near
Gerringong (N.S.W.), amid the debris
where a cliff-face had collapsed, I found
“Been taking your Weight-reducing tablets? "
some perfect specimens of fossilised
shells. A Sydney Museum expert identi-
fied them promptly and accurately as
“South Coast, Upper Marine series,
Permian.” Age? Just the bare 203-
million years! Wonder how that three
got in?
* * * *
“Canopus”: Operating my rotary-
mower in long grass, I saw a tiger-
snake beating-it in top gear, minus a
few inches of tail. I set the machine
at him, full throttle, and was puzzled
for a while as to what happened—he
just seemed to disappear. It took three
magpies half an hour to clean-up the bits.
It’s far more efficient than the old tail-
grabbing-and-whipcrack technique, and
much safer.
* * * *
“Spin”: Within days two small
launches were missing off Fremantle —
one unmanned, the other with two men
aboard. Both were found, but in each
case searching craft had come close to
the boat without seeing it. That’s hard
for the average person to understand.
He looks over the apparently flat surface
and swears he can see everything afloat
for miles, and it’s hard to convince him
there are troughs within half-a-mile
capable of hiding even a big boat. I’ve
struck the same problem on the Nul-
larbor. Until you know it you’d swear
it was perfectly flat, and you’d even
walk through dongas without particu-
larly noticing them. Yet they may be
deep enough to conceal a man standing
in the bottom of them.
“R.A.McC.”: I think the author of
“Time Means Tucker” might be forgiven
if he makes a few mistakes (“Barrow-
man,” B. 21/1/”59) over such a wide
field. The manager of “Chariton” was
Lackyzerma—his wife was Maud Lowe,
a particularly handsome girl when 1 knew
her in the Germanton (later Holbrook),
N.S.W., district over 60 years ago.
J. H. Dickson: I’ve enjoyed “Duke”
Tritton’s breezy and true-to-life descrip-
tions of happenings outback. However,
just to get the record straight: The name
of my Brewarrina (N.S.W.) property is
not Yarraman, as “Duke” quotes, but
Yarrawin. And the creek should be
Marra.
* * * •
“Sackfair”: The New Australian came
running into my place in great agitation.
Ravelled out, it seemed that he had run
over a dog. Investigation revealed my
neighbor’s heeler stretched out motion-
less. I called him by name, pulled back
his eyelids, lifted his head —no sign of
life. The motorist placed a hand on
the broad, still chest, paused, then looked
up, shaking his head miserably. We
carried the body to the wayside grass,
and I awaited the return of the dog’s
owner. Telling him wasn’t a pleasant
task. Halfway through he stopped me
with a puzzled air and jerked a thumb
towards the doorway. Bluey was stand-
ing there looking fit to fight all comers.
No; I hadn’t wasted sympathy on a
strange dog—a small hairless patch on
the wide skull vindicated me. Just three
nights later old Blue came gambolling
out to greet his master’s car, and . . .
Poor old Blue! Death doesn't take a
holiday twice in three days.
* * * *
“Wimra”: As defined in mechanical
terms in the animal-protection section of
an 1.C.1. technical-service bulletin, a cow
is an animated machine housed in un-
processed leather. At one end it is
equipped with a mower, grinder, bum-
pers, headlights, wing-flaps and foghorn.
At the other end is a milk-dispenser and
insect-repeller. In between is the con-
version plant: a combination storage-
and fermentation-vat, three converters in
series, and an intricate arrangement of
conveyer tubes. Special equipment in-
cludes a device for self-reproduction at
yearly intervals, and a central pumping-
system.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: The leafcutter bees
are working again, and my roses look
as though a tornado has just passed
through. Some bushes, apparently most
suitable for the bees’ purpose, haven't
a whole leaf on them ; others are being
attacked with more discrimination. The
bee, almost as big as the hive-bee, with
a similar angry buzz but distinguished
by an orange patch on its face, alights
on a leaf, rejects it, tries another, until
she’s satisfied ; then she cuts out a half-
moon segment, snipping the leaf as you
would with manicure - scissors but
quicker than you’d do it if you took care
to get the right shape—and flies to where
she’s currently stocking-up a cell. That
cell may be a nail-hole in a veranda-
post, the old nest of a mud-dauber wasp,


Guess WHERE I HAD /f
TD PARK ; DEAR. T


or any cavity capable of holding the grub
from the egg she's going to lay and a
supply of food to maintain it to the
pupation-stage. Far as I can make out,
the segments are masticated to form a
jelly for lining the cell and sealing it,
while the grub-food consists mainly of
pollen with perhaps some honey. But
occasionally I find, forced or placed into
small tunnels in the earth, tubes formed
of these segments joined together, over-
lapping and divided into cells by circular
pieces of slightly larger diameter than
the tube. Eve found four cells to a tube.
Anyone know if these are built by the
same species as uses the nail-holes and
wasp-nests?
* * * *
“Reims": A pair of eaglehawks ruled
a few thousand acres the bloke 1 was
working for thought he owned near
Kununoppin (W.A.), and the trump
reckoned they ate lambs ; I maintained
that the hundreds of rabbits they
accounted for more than made up for
the odd lamb they might be justly accused
of taking ; but while he was paying my
wages I had to carry a rifle at odd times.
Whenever l had it the big blokes circled
high and wide, well out of range ; when
I was empty-handed they’d come within
a couple of hundred yards. That
happened too often and too consistently
to be coincidence — I never got within
rifle-range of those birds while I was
carrying a rifle.
* * * *
“Bullet na": In his delightful descrip-
tion of the Bringelly countryside David
Adams (B. 10/12/ '5B) made geebungs
synonymous with ground-berries. There
is a difference. Ground-berries, whitish-
pink, are the fruit of small ground-
growing epacris, and you put the whole
berry in your mouth and chew till the
sweetish pulp is separated from the hard
seed. “Five-corners” were similar, but
much larger, oval and from a bush—
punnets of “five-corners” were sold in
the old markets in the ’eighties. Gee-
bungs are as large as a gooseberry, bright-
green, tough and bitter-skinned ; they
are from a small tree with large and
beautiful, oval, apple-green leaves which
contrast with a stem that is usually black.
To eat the berry, you must squeeze it,
and the creamy centre will pop into your
mouth ; you chew its nutty, fibrous pulp
which surrounds the hard stone.
“Rabbi Ben Alla": Early settlers
named part of our town of Benalla
(Vic.) Billygoat Flat. Now it's a resi-
dential area, but the name still sticks,
much to the disgust of some of the
socialites who live round that way.
* * * *
“Bellfield": I was amazed to see three
black swans riding with the swell beyond
the first line of breakers at Werri Beach
(N.S.W.). Black swans do not eat fish —
even the callous fishing-enthusiasts who,
some time back, wanted swans extermin-
ated were forced to concede that. Why,
then, did those swans remain bobbing
about in the briny for at least two hours?
Only answer I can think of is that it was
for the same reason that I did—they
liked it.
"It’s a damn sight better than walking back for petrol."
THOMPSON'S MILL
Thompson's mill does not exist.
It disappeared like a mountain mist.
The traction-engine stands there still
And marks the site of Thompson’s mill.
Jim and me on the breaking-down,
Happy Jim from Noojee town,
The Prince of Wales on the number-one
And little Bill on the scantling run ;
Tom the Dog in the doctor's shed,
And all the rest: but they are dead;
They were my mates, good men and true,
They all got burnt when the fire went
through.
There were logs as far as the Lonely
Bride
And God knows where on the Neerim
side,
And Thompson would have made a
screw
But he lost the lot when the fire went
through.
Thompson said we’d be 0.k.,
The smoke was fifteen miles away,
But old Hans whispered, “Look, that’s
strange !”
As Hell swept over the Baw Baw range.
We raced for the creek through the red-
brown light
Till the sky went black as a moonless
night.
I ran and crawled through a sea of smoke
Wit It bursting lungs and one arm broke.
A sawdust-heap marks Thompson’s mill.
You’ve never seen it and never will,
For it’s ten miles in off the Woods Point
track,
Ten miles through the scrub and ten miles
back ;
Ten miles out through a prickly mass
Of Stinking Annie and sassafras.
For twenty years there’s been no track.
For twenty years no one’s been back . . .
No one except old Jim and me —
We went in from the Jubilee,
Forced our way through the scrub eight
mile
To see a rotting sawdust-pile.
vie.
J. WOLFE.


ROCKET POWER
for your car ...
Gives, you all these
advantages...
• ROCKET POWER!
• More miles per gallon
• Easier starting
t Smoother, quieter running
• Longer engine life
9 Fast acceleration
Australia's FIRST
BORON Petrol
Ampol Boron Special is Australia’s
only Boron petrol. It is the best
petrol you can buy! Test it your-
self. Fill up with Ampol Boron
Special to-day! Costs no more
than the Super Grade petrols it
replaces. Get rocket power for the
road at no extra cost.
NOTHING MATCHES BORON!
F»0


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. URQUHART, M. D. PASSMORE, K. W. A. BRIDGES
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
25 O’CONNELL STREET
SYDNEY
Telephone
BW 8171 (3 lines)
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECELEX,’* Sydney
DAVIS, ROTHWELL & CO.
C lncorporating Headlam, Hewson & Co.)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.)
117 Pitt Street, Sydney. 193 Summer Street, Orange.
Blj 1855 (3 lines) Orange 4051
Telegraphic and Cable Address, "KETEP,” Sydney.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
A BRISK PACE
HThe past week has been,
financially and economi-
cally, full of event and develop-
ment. The new year has got off
at a brisk pace, with never a
dull moment. The sharemarket
has mounted to new all-time
peaks, with the young and
vigorous second-liners now
dominating the picture.
Generally the sharemarket
seems to have gone to a too-
high level, judging by the low
yields offering from first-class
stocks and the fact that even
the unit-trusts have started to
swing to fixed-interest securities
to “sweeten” their returns from
equity shares. But there are
so many technical “market”
factors at work that the
requirements of the ordinary
investor have been submerged
by the operations of bigger,
longer-term investors.
The balance-of-payments
position to December 31
is shown to have been rather
better than expected because
of the inflow of capital, Aus-
tralia in this respect momen-
tarily (and less emphatically)
resembling Canada, where the
balance of trade has normally
been against the Dominion in
recent years, but with a high
inflow of capital more than
correcting the position. Aus-
tralia’s resemblance, is of a
somewhat pale order, the
balance still being a deficit,
our £ by no means command-
ing a premium over the U.S.
dollar, as was the case with
the Canadian dollar.
There has been consider-
able stirring in the wool
industry. The Wool Bureau
has decided on sweeping
changes in its organisation and
its whole promotional policy.
There is increasing pressure
from the woolgrowing indus-
try, also, for a floor-price, as
advocated so strongly in The
Bulletin by P. R. Rogers, of
Victoria.
Mr. Rogers is asking the
Wool Bureau to call a con-
ference of manufacturers,
retailers and woolgrowers’
representatives after getting
advice from competent
businessmen as to the best
method of setting-up a stabi-
lisation scheme, and then sub-
mitting it to the growers by
vote.
Although a stabilisation
scheme was rejected in 1951,
"And no more parcels marked ‘Personal’!”
Mr. Rogers is of the opinion
that a floor-price would be
accepted by growers today
with a four-to-one majority.
(Incidentally, Mr. Rogers
suggests that the Federal
Government be left out of the
conference Government
representation “would involve
endless discussion and would
take up too much time.”)
As things are, the low price
of wool, in spite of a slight
strengthening, remains a
national problem, even though
its effects in the balance-of-
payments are for the moment
partly masked by the inflow
of capital.
A definite check seems to
have been suffered by the TV-
receiver business, with over-
production in the industry for
the present. There is normally
a fall-off in production and
sales at this time of the year,
but manufacturers generally
are reporting a slackening in
the boom conditions previ-
ously existing, and retailers
are cutting the price of some
models. Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth and Hobart TV-transmis-
sions will later on widen the
market for receivers, but it will
not total the demand 'that
existed in either Sydney or
Melbourne to begin with.
Release last week of a
further £l5 million of “special-
account” money by the
central bank to the trading-
banks is intended to assist
the rural, export and build-
ing industries. Spread over
the banks and through the
industries concerned, its cover
will be fairly thin, but its
release reduces the total frozen
funds of the trading-banks
from their last-year peak of
£340 million to a present £250
million.
Discussion of possible de-
valuation of the £ still goes
on. While it is well to discuss
these things, it would be bad
policy at present to implement
any inclinations in that direc-
tion. We have a number of
industrial problems demanding,
local treatment and correction
before we resort to economic
“antibiotics.”
Opposition to the National
Dairy (U.S.) offer to take-over
the Australian minority share-
holding in Kraft Holdings
continues to grow and become
more vocal. Other takeover
news included the acquisition
of F. Muller Pty., Ltd., Syd-
ney, by National Radiators,
Ltd., Melbourne, for a share-
consideration with a market-
value of £1,375,000.
The big cotton-spinners
and -weavers, Bradford Cotton
and Davies, Coop., have both
reported some fall in turn-
over, but each regarded their
profits as satisfactory and
declared unchanged dividends.
Minster Success Story
TXZith the payment of a 10
p.c. interim dividend (20
p.c. p.a.) on March 25, founda-
tion shareholders in Minster,
Ltd., will have received back
in dividends three times their
original investment.
Their original investment
was no syndicate matter, either.
The capital required to set-up
the first unit of the factory to
make rubber-bonded carpet
at Dandenong (Vic.) was
£250,000. More than three
times that sum has been de-
clared in dividends since 1951.
Westminster Carpets Pty.,
Ltd., the original company,
was formed on November 29,
1946, with the aforemen-
tioned paid capital. The
Keighleys, of Bradford Cotton
Mills, were largely interested
on the financial side ; the pro-
duction know-how, accom-
panied by the associated
ingenious mechanical methods,
came from Jack Dews.
Made originally for the
motor-car trade, Westminster
carpet (which has the appear-
ance of haircord) was soon in
demand for household pur-
poses, and in spite of regular
additions to the plant since,
production has never been
equal to the demand, even
though the co. is now the
largest manufacturer of pile-
carpet in Australia.
Production began on July
12, 1949, and for the term to
June 30, 1951, the first div.
(10 p.c.) was paid. On March
19, 1951, before payment of
the first div., paid capital had
been doubled by a bonus-issue
financed from the revaluation
of assets. On December 12,
1952, Minster, Ltd., was
formed to take-over West-
minster Carpets and convert it
into a public co. on the basis


A. C. BUCKLE & CO.
(Member of the Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER
105 PITT STREET, Sydney. Phone: BL 2421-2
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “BUCKLEX,” Sydney.
It’s safe,
simple and
time-saving
to pay by
l “Wales” cheque i
An account
with the “Wales” introduces
you to the many other
modern banking services
provided by Australia s oldest
and largest trading bank '
° o Q o
v A
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
rm i «irmwwii Hinn a m
A5904C
of two 10s. Minster ords., for
each Westminster £1 share.
In 1955-56 Minster took-
over Sydney Cotton Mills, Ltd.,
but sold the assets, apart from
freeholds, to Davies, Coop. In
the 1956-57 term Minster com-
pleted the duplication of its
plant at Dandenong and then
made a three-for-four bonus-
issue.
During the present term its
plant-capacity will be treble
that with which operations
commenced in 1949.
All additions to plant have
been financed from ploughed-
back profits. The only capital
issued otherwise than by way
of bonus since the original
cash-issue of 1946 has been
in respect of take-overs of
small such as
Sydney Cotton, Whitehead
Chemical Co. and Rayon
Processing.
Since formation as a public
co. all dividends (except the
latest 20 p.c. p.a.) have been
at the rate of 15 p.c. p.a.,
which up to 1956 meant 30
p.c. p.a. on the original capital
and, after 1956, 52| p.c. The
present rate of 20 p.c. is equal
to 70 p.c. p.a. on the original
cash-paid capital.
The investor who put £lOO
originally into Westminster
Carpets Pty., Ltd., and who
has held all bonus-shares
would now have 700 shares of
10s. each, which, at last week’s
price of 435. each, would be
worth £1505.
Westminster carpet—attrac-
tive, hardwearing and eco-
nomical —has filled a require-
ment indicated by the demand
for it. Minster, Ltd., is now
testing the possibilities of an
export market in Canada to
justify further plant-capacity.
The production methods em-
ployed at Dandenong are the
closest thing to automation yet
seen in the carpet industry.
The Minster board has
always been quiet as a mouse
about its activities, but recently
the sharemarket has taken
keen note of the co.’s perform-
ances and possibilities. Re-
gardless of sharemarket evalua-
tion, Minster’s dividend per-
formance over nine years of
production place it in the very
front rank of well-planned,
vigorous post-war industries
and profitable investments.
There should be more of
them!
N. B. Love Industries, Ltd.
Tn its twenty-fifth year of
expansion, energetic N. B.
Love Pty., Ltd. (Sydney), is
“going public” by forming
N. B. Love Industries, Ltd.,
and making a public issue of
50,000 £1 ord. shares. The
public co. has already acquired
358,182 ords. in N. B. Love
Pty. on a share-for-share
basis, representing all the
capital in the proprietary
except 12,500 partly-paid em-
ployees’ shares and 50,000 £1
redeemable (1980) 5 p.c. prefs.
When the public issue is
complete, N. B. Love Industries
will have a paid capital of
£408,182, all in ords. Minority
shareholdings in the sub-
sidiaries will be the employees’
shares, the prefs., and 25 p.c.
of the capital (total, £140,000)
of Millmaster Feeds Pty., held
by Gearin O’Riordan, Ltd.
Nigel B. Love, after 12
years with the old-established
flourmilling business of Edwin
Davey and Sons Pty., Pyrmont,
and five years in his own
bakery, in 1935 set-up a flour-
mill at Enfield, Sydney, to
produce a better-type baking-
flour.
This higher-grade flour met
with a quick demand, and on
a capital of £12,470, turnover
in the first year was £lOO,OOO.
Last term it was over £3
million.
In 1940 capital was raised
by £46,700 to £59,170, and the
addition, with some outside
finance, enabled the takeover
of the old Edwin Davey busi-
ness.
The pref. money was raised
in 1950. In 1952 freeholds and
plant of the co. and its sub-
sidiaries were revalued, and
showed a surplus of £282,275.
Out of this £203,310 was used
to make a bonus-issue of ord.
shares, in the ratio of three
for one, lifting paid capital to
£386,682.. Since then the
12.500 employees’ shares have
been issued, as well as another
21.500 ords.
The new holding-co. today
embraces all the activities and
assets of N. B. Love Pty. (bar
the pref. and minority em-
ployees’ holdings), all the
capital of Edwin Davey and
Sons, 99.8 p.c. of the capital
of N. B. Love (Boggabri) Pty.,
and 75 p.c. of the capital of
Millmaster Feeds Pty.
Millmaster Feeds is a lead-
ing N.S.W. producer of stock
feeds, and has proved very
profitable.
Pro-Max Bakeries Pty. and
N, B. Love Starches Pty. have
been registered in Canberra,
and all the capital will be held
by N. B. Love Industries.
At present, group activities
include the manufacture of
special-grade flour, stock-
feeds, starches and dry-gluten.
Flour-sales supply a large pro-
portion of the domestic market,
with exports to the Pacific
Islands and elsewhere. Flour-
production capacity is 1200'
tons a week, with about 400
tons of bran and pollard.
Activities of the group are
shortly to be spread to the
bread-baking industry through
Pro-Max Bakeries Pty.
Profits for 1956-57, allowing
for minority interests and tax,
were equal to 11.5 p.c. on the
proposed new paid capital of
N. B. Love Industries, Ltd.
For 1957-58 they were 15.9 p.c.,
and for the three months to


How much of
Your Estate
will your beneficiaries get?
Specialised experience in the intricacies of
Estate Administration may well prove of con-
siderable advantage to you—and your depen-
dants. Union Trustee’s comprehensive services
—available at moderate charges, limited by
Law—ensure fullest conservation of your assets
and continuous, competent control of your
Estate. Phone, write or call. There is no
charge—no obligation.
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established JBSS
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Norman
•I. Carson, C.M.G.; C. N. McKay ; S. M. Kimpton; E. S.
Vine. C.M.G. General Manager: John Larritt. Manager:
C. N. Williams. Resident Officer for Northern Victoria
and the Riverina : S. L. G. MacDonald, Albury. Pastoral
Inspector: E. I*. Learinontli.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N. S. W. DIRECTOR AT E.
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.; Bertram
.J. F. Wright, M.8.E.; R. A. Irish; Duncan N. Mathieson.
Manager: A. B. Tilemanu. Assistant .Manager : A. G. W. Dent.
Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird. District Representative
for Newcastle: 11. B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher. 0.8. E. (Chairman);
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon;
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Charleviile.
UT2"a
July 31, 1958, at the rate of
17.8 p.c.
Dividend for 1954 was 7
p.c. ; 1955, 7 p.c. ; 1956, 5 p.c. ;
1957, 10 p.c. ; and 1958, 10 p.c.
On October 31 an interim
“at the usual rate of 4 p.c.”
was declared.
These dividends have been
paid on the capital as in-
creased following the revalu-
ation and three-for-one bonus-
issue of 1952. Although it was
a large bonus, provided from
the writing-up of freeholds and
plant, the latest Valuer-
General's valuation for the
Enfield and Pyrmont freeholds
is £97,000 over book-values,
Net tangible backing for the
£1 ords. at July 31, 1958, was
£1 13s. 7d. on book-values.
The N.B. Love enterprise has
obviously been progressive and
profitable over the years.
The management has been
wise in giving major attention
to the more stable and profit-
able home market and now in
entering the baking business to
anchor its outlets.
Though the revaluation of
1952 was substantial, that is
nearly seven years ago, and
latest figures would suggest
that it was not overdone. Under
reasonable trading conditions,
the new capital and new
activities should broaden the
scope for profit-earning.
Frome Rocks Sail
[From li. Owen]
T atest press-release states
that 1712 ft. of “rock-salt
formations” have been drilled
through without encountering
bottom in Wapet’s Frome
Rocks well, between 2263 ft.
and 3975 ft.
The use of the term “rock-
salt formation” is both
puzzling and uninformative. It
suggests breaks in the salt, and
should be further defined. In
any case, 1712 ft. of rock-salt
is a sizeable thickness and
can affect geophysical readings
—and their interpretation—
very substantially.
The lack of any showings of
oil or gas within the rock-salt
mass is not remarkable. In the
segregation of oil-“pools,”
rock-salt normally plays only
a mechanical part by warping
the overlying strata. It can,
however, act as a trap when
the “plug” of salt extends
laterally to form an overhang,
or where its sides seal oil-
sands which have been rup-
tured in its upward progress.
That, of course, is a “text-
book” simplification of what
results, usually, in a very com-
plex structure ; but it is given
in an attempt to make clear
why the hope of striking oil
does not vanish when a rock-
salt mass is entered—as was
invariably assumed in the early
oil-development of the Gulf
Coast salt-dome area in U.S.A.
As far as the search for oil
in the Kimberleys is concerned,
the effect of buried salt-masses
on the interpretation of geo-
physical surveys is of prime
importance.
In the case of a “normal”
anticline or dome, the basal
arch underlying the sedi-
mentary series is of higher
gravity than the overlying
strata, and the nearer approach
of the basal mass to the surface
causes an increase in the
gravity anomaly, recorded
above the anticlinal axis.
Where salt, which has a low
specific-gravity, underlies the
axis, the gravity anomaly may
be either reduced, annulled or
reversed, according to the
amount and depth of the salt-
mass, thus necessitating a very
different interpretation.
The same is true of seismic
surveys, owing to the different
speeds of the longitudinal (P),
transverse (S) and the surface
(Rayleigh) waves in salt and in
other media.
No information has, as yet,
been made public as to the
chemical composition or the
physical properties of the
Frome Rocks salt.
Cheesed-off
Opposition to the proposed
takeover of 530,827 Aus-
tralian-held shares in Kraft
Holdings, Ltd., by National
Dairy (U.S.A.) continues to
grow, judging by correspon-
dence and comment in the
press.
One point not made by any
critic or commentator is the
fact that last year’s earnings
by Kraft in Australia, which
were 'shown at £734,718 plus
£34,108 of excess 1956-57 tax-
provision brought back into
account (against net profit of
£791,959 in the preceding year)
were arrived at after the special
provision of £149,934 to cover
“inventory write-down and
other unusual costs.”
Depreciation provision, too,
was £326,888, compared with
£296,641 in the preceding year.
This increased allowance for
depreciation may have been
due to the growth in working
assets, or to the new increased
tax-free allowances.
But if the inventory write-
down be restored to profits,
and the tax-overprovision be
passed back to the year in
which it was made, profit for
1957-58 rises to £884,652,
which is equal to 53 p.c. on
ord. capital, after allowing for
the prefs.
Whilst the inventory write-
down is said to have been
“required,” at the same time
it is an unusual charge, and
it may be taken that on a
similar turnover profits in a
normal year would have been
considerably bigger than those
claimed in the accounts.
This abnormality in the
estimating of last year’s profit
makes the offer by National
Dairy for Kraft shares seem
ever so much more inadequate.


Time Means Tucker
By H. P. (“DUKE”) TRITTON
Illustrations chiefly from contemporary issues of The Bulletin.
Both of them 19-year-olds, the writer and his mate Dutchy have set out from
Sydney in 1905 on a breezily adventurous wander about the N.S.W. outback,
learning to become shearers, doing fencing contracts and having a go at gold-
digging, singing and taking the hat round in the towns, boxing in show-booths,
meeting picturesque characters, and generally getting to know the bush and bush
folk, and taking life as they find it. They have gone by boat to Newcastle, headed
west from there, jumped the rattler to Narrabri, and, characteristically, have done
their share with other volunteer firefighters in saving that town from being burnt
down. They are now well-seasoned bushmen; have been through the shearings at
famous (and other) stations, earned a crust rabbit-poisoning, done tough fencing
jobs, tried for gold on the old Outgoing field, travelled with a boxing-show, tramped
out beyond Bourke, had a go at droving and other bush work with their Londoner
track-mate Cock, and are now to learn something of the gentle art of lambing-down
as they head homeward.
Having time to spare, we
took a different route
back to Walgett, and
would go past the
Grawin Hotel, probably the
most notorious lambing-down
joint in N.S.W. It stood in a
clump of coolibah - trees,
surrounded by plains, and I
doubt if there was any other
building within 20 miles of it
in any direction. Why pubs
were built in such lonely places
is still a mystery to me. Grawin
was not unique in this respect.
There were scores of such
pubs scattered here and there
over all the States, though I
think Grawin was the loneliest
of all I have seen. It was run
by a woman. A good-looking
woman, round 40, she seemed
to be of what was then known
as “the superior type.” Her
voice was well modulated, and
she spoke grammatically and
in a refined manner, and was,
as Cock put it, “a perfect lidy.”
To me she appeared to
overdo it a little, but I was
always a bit suspicious of a
too-hearty welcome. Especially
as I had heard stories of her
lambing-down activities in
every shed or camp wherever
1 had been. No doubt a lot
of the yarns were exaggerated,
but there must have been some
basis of truth in them. -
Pubs such as this could exist
only by robbing the occasional
traveller, in a more-or-less legal
manner. And few of the men
thus robbed seemed to worry
about it, but took it all as a
matter of course, and some-
thing to boast about later on.
I knew a drover who would
tell the story of how he had
called in at the Shingle Hut
with a big cheque and walked
away two days later broke,
leaving his horse, saddle, bridle,
swag and dog behind, and
nothing but a bottle of rum
to show for the lot. When I
remarked that he’d had a tough
deal, he grinned: “Served me
right for being such a blanky
fool.”
'T'he only time I saw lambing-
down in operation was in
1905. When. Dutchy and I
were waiting for Rockedgiel to
start, and with nearly a week
to go, we camped with several
other shearers near The Flags,
a shanty on the Coolah-
Gunnedah road. Five men
had completed a ringbarking
contract on Bomera, and
Carson (of Winchcombe
Carson) had given each man
a cheque for £32.
At The Flags each cheque
was presented, but only two
were cashed, there not being
sufficient money in the house to
cash the five. But the cheques
were retained by the publican,
and the three men" were told to
order what they wanted, and
an account would be kept. A
heavy drinking-session went on
till midnight, but the next day
none of the five put in an
appearance. On the second
day, when the mail-coach
bound for Coolah pulled-up,
the publican led three
shambling wrecks of men out,
shoved them in the coach, and
said to the driver, “Drop them
at Coolah, Bill,” and handed
him a pound-note. Bill nodded,
and drove off, as though it was
a common occurrence.
The two men whose cheques
had been cashed had another
day, but as the coach was on
the return-trip to Gunnedah
they were put aboard with
instructions to Bill to drop
them at Tambar Springs. None
of the five had made any
protest. The rotgut liquor, and
what had been added to it,
seemed to have completely
robbed them of their manhood.
It was the most casual and
cold-blooded act I saw in my
many years in the bush. One-
hundred-and-sixty pounds in
three days. It would have
bought the pub and all the
grog in it.
All the yarns, songs and
recitations told and written
about lambing-down have had
a touch of wry humor in them.
In 1907 I wrote a song detail-
ing the experiences of a drover
who had been stripped to his
spurs at the Shingle Hut, a
shanty at the junction of the
Merri Merri and the Martha-
guy Rivers. Built-up of the
many yarns I had heard of
lambing-down, it always got a
good reception when 1 sang it.
And today I can still get
plenty of applause from any
audience, mainly because of
the humorous twist in it.
At Grawin we had a very
good time ; food was well
cooked and served, beds were
clean and comfortable. It was
paradise after the track, with
hard beds and the eternal
mutton and damper.
Our landlady was on her best
behavior, probably taking pity
on our youth, or, more likely,
thinking we were not worth it.
We played cards ; then she and
Dutchy sang duets, mostly the
old favorites. She had a very
pleasant voice, easy to listen
to, and she played the piano
very well. The evening had the
air of a family gathering, and
it went on till midnight. Besides
us three, there was her
husband, whom she called
Charlie. I think he was
German, by his accent. Four
strangers made-up the party.
There was not one word out of
place, and, while all were
merry, none had too much
to drink.
I found it hard to believe that
this friendly, smiling woman
could be the cold-blooded
harpy about whom so many
stories had been told of men
drugged, robbed and sent
wandering into the scrub, to
live or die for all she cared.
It was the next year (1909)
she came to her end. Two
swagmen came to the shanty,
walked into the bar, and, after
failing to get attention, decided
to investigate. They found
her in a bedroom, with her
head smashed in. She had
been dead several hours, and
('Continued on page 32)


THE HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY
m
I IS
F
.... Right in the
Business Centre
You'll find the utmost in comfort
and convenience at The Hotel
Metropole. Conveniently situated
right in the heart of Sydney’s “West
End,” the Hotel Metropole is handy
to transport, offices and Sydney’s
smartest shops and theatres. Enjoy
superb, relaxed comfort at the Hotel
Metropole on your next trip to
Sydney. Over 400 rooms, 85 with
private bathroom; luxurious ultra-
modern suites; friendly, efficient
room-service, day and night; superb
cellar and cuisine; magnificently
appointed dining room and six
banquet rooms —yes, the Hotel
Metropole is truly THE place to
stay in Sydney!
THE HOTEL METROPOLE
Australia’s Most
Friendly Hotel
B 0522. Box 1601, G.P.O.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEETRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“For Amusement Only”
Most intimate revues open
with a chorus so brilliant and
unintelligible that one fears the
intellect has taken-over. But
the audience at Sydney Royal
was quickly reassured by a
sketch in which Margo Lee and
Red Moore were Australians
talking French to each other
in Paris, and next by a dance-
routine in which Tikky Taylor,
with frontal additions, made
like Sabrina —the variety and
perfection of the Taylor girl’s
expressions and dance-routines
arc unified by a bounce and a
strut that should take her a
long way, with the oblivious-
ness of a bullet on the way to
its target.
The big moments of the
show were “The Shopgirl
Princess,” a parody of War I
musicomedies, in which the
hardworking and economical
company managed to preserve,
for those who remember a
certain Miss Gibbs, a nostalgic
charm at the height of their
farce, which isn’t easy to do ;
and “The Vagabond Student,”
a libel on the amateur theatri-
cals of the staff of a depart-
ment-store—Graeme Bent as
the amateur tenor who couldn’t
be heard, with his cap falling
over his bespectacled eyes, was
as good a bit of fooling as one
has seen on those old boards.
Not less inspired was the
company’s appearance, men
and girls, as the young-lady
pupils of Gerton Hall, singing
in choir about the difficulty of
working in a school where the
teachers were always resign-
ing—this could scarcely have
had more success in Melbourne
when Merton Hall was in the
news; Toni Lamond had a
clever song, “Don’t Let Me
Down,” addressed to a piece
of elastic, and a monologue
in which she explained, with
illustrations by two elegant
black-clad legs and many con-
volutions about a sofa, how,
as an agent for Mr. Khrush-
chev, she prevailed upon the
English XI to lose the Ashes ;
Red Moore was pretty good as
Liberace, and with Margo Lee
made something of grafting
“Macbeth” on “Romeo and
Juliet.”
The parody of “The Doll”
was a bit thin, and a short
court-scene presupposed Eng-
lish magistrates’ courts, where
men and women sit side by side
on the bench —but all-in-all the
show had the exuberance and
plenteousness of good revue, as
witness one’s forgetting the
bright skit on “Dad and Dave”
broadcasts, on smoking in the
theatre, and Tikky Taylor’s
bombinations as the girl who
only gets garnets.
Wallenstein
An easy podium-manner and
an ability to get dynamic
results from an orchestra that
had been out to grass for a
month or two were the obvious
qualities of Alfred Wallen-
stein, conductor of the Los
Angeles Philharmonic, when
he made his bow with the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra
in a programme of six widely
varied works.
His chief offering was Men-
delssohn’s “Italian” symphony,
and he never lost sight of the
fact that this work is primarily
an essay in rhythmic melody.
The opening movement was
full of exuberant joy, with the
clarinets suitably restrained in
stating the second principal
subject after the strings had had
their say. The Pilgrim’s March
“Sorry, gentlemen! No admittance without a tie.”
slow movement brought good
work from oboe, clarinet and
violas ; and the wild Saltarello
dance—or is it really a Taran-
tella?—of the final section was
gaily wrought.
Gabor Reeves was soloist in
the Concerto for Clarinet by
the contemporary Hungarian
composer Zoltan Gardonyi, a
work which proved more,
interesting in its scoring for
the orchestra than for the solo
instrument. The extended
cadenzas of the first and last
movements are by George
Kraus, of the Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra, and test very
fully the resources of both
instrument and instrumentalist.
Mr. Reeves produced a beauti-
fully mellow tone, and main-
tained it even under the
greatest pressure.
The Saltarello dance-
measure was again strongly
handled in Berlioz’s “Carnaval
Romaine,” a rollicking gaiety
preceding the beautiful assign-
ment for the English-horn, and
the conductor giving the
orchestra its head in a fine
limning of the carnival spirit.
The Prelude to Mussorgsky’s
“Khovantchina,” that finely
scored tone-picture of day-
break over the Moskva River,
a flow of peaceful though
sombre music at striking
variance with the horror-filled
turbulence of the opera, struck
a reasonably good balance
between the choirs and drew
some attractive playing from
the high strings.
The Suite from Richard
Strauss's “Rosenkavalier” was
less sprightly and exhilarating
than is its due; but Ravel’s
“Bolero,” which brought the
concert to an end, was of a
very different color. This, the
longest crescendo in the whole
range of music, with its Spanish
dance-theme tossed from one
woodwind to another before
being taken by the full
orchestra and hammered flat
under a gigantic volume of
sound, was remarkable for its
evocation of nervous' tension,
for fine judgment in the
gradual adding of tonal weight-,
and for its shattering climax,
*♦«
Moira Lister
Currently at Sydney’s Anzac
Auditorium, Moira Lister tells
—or, rather, acts seven
stories, all but two of them
a b ou t "People in Love.”
This acting as distinct from
telling is important. It is the
basic reason why the show as
a whole wasn’t as satisfying as
jt s material led one to expect.
It seems that to put stories
over with the greatest effect
the artist must in a sense be-
come both the author and the
author’s characters—i.e., give


First mortgage debenture stock
SHORT TERM
0/
/o
PER ANNUM
12 months 5%
9 . . . 41%
6 . . . 4%
3 . . . 31%
LONG TERM
8
PER ANNUM
S-IO years 7%
4 . . . 6i%
3 . . . 6%
2 . . . 5i%
GENERAL CREDITS LIMITED offers first mortgage
debenture stock on long or short term basis. Cumulative
stock carrying 6£% compounded on yearly rests with
currencies erf 5 to 15 years.
Interest is paid quarterly free
of exchange.
Investors wishing to withdraw
earlier than the specified
term may do so in accordance
with the conditions described
in the prospectus.
PROSPECTUS:
Bankers are the Commercial
Bank of Australia Limited, from
whom the prospectus is avail-
able and from Members of the
Stock Exchange and Company
Offices at Corner Pitt & Goulburn
Streets, Sydney. Phone: MA8276.
Our Auditors, Messrs. L. B. Wallace & Son,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.), wish to state
that as at the 30/6/58 the amount of issued
Debenture Stock was £7,713,022 secured by
a first floating charge over the tangible
assets of the company which amounted to
£16,536,733 at that date.
BROKERS: J. B. WERE & SON
This is not a prospectus and does not constitute
an inyitation to subscribe.
10607/N
the impression of the creating
as well as the creations. That
was what Emlyn Williams did.
But if, like Miss Lister, the
artist simply acts the stories
out —with music, a few props
and changes of costume —you
get only the creations: neatly
fixed and framed, but not so
vivid.
And even within the scope of
her method, Miss Lister’s act-
ing was itself limited in range
and depth. Her talent seems
to be for broad effects rather
than for subtle undertones,
timing and the sense of phrase.
However, it fitted three of
the stories extremely well
Dorothy Parker’s “The Waltz,”
where the monologue humor
hits hard, straight and often ;
Poe’s “Tell-tale Heart,” with its
thick strokes of terror; and
the simple poignancy of Jose
d’Almeida’s “Her Son.” And
it came very near to fitting two
others Dorothy Parker’s
speakeasy monologue, where
again the more obvious swipes
of humor were caught, but
some of the underlying irony
got away; and Thomas
Croker's mermaid fantasy,
which had color and fun, but
seemed to call for more of
the kidding touch than she
gave it.
But stage techniques just
didn’t fit Dorothy Parker’s
“The Telephone.” A woman’s
desperate stream of thought as
she waits vainly for her lover
to call, it belongs to the silence
of the mind and the printed
page speech and action
weaken it and even make it
a bit embarrassing in places.
Miss Lister came nearest to
real storytelling in “The Chair-
mender” ; but here the choice
of story was at fault: it just
wasn’t good Maupassant.
All the Parker pieces were
a little too long. They appear
to need careful editing for
voice and stage, where an in-
flection or gesture can some-
times replace a whole phrase.
Emlyn Williams again is the
master here.
J. A.
The Royal Ballet in Bris-
bane
The dancers of the Royal
Ballet made their Brisbane
debut in a “Swan Lake” shorn
of the theatrical tricks that help
to bring-out the fairy-tale
atmosphere of the piece. A
lorry carrying elaborate light-
ing equipment did not turn up
in time, so the company had
to rely on the magic of their
feet. This they did with that
sharpened enthusiasm that
comes from meeting an un-
expected challenge.
“Swan Lake” needs an excel-
lent company, especially in the
exotic dances of the ballroom
scene in the third act. Neverthe-
less, the ballet stands or falls
by the excellence of its two
principals. It needs a man built
like an Olympic athlete for
Prince Siegfried, and a dancer
who can add personality to the
heavy physical demands of the
twin parts of Odette and
Odile.
Philip Chatfield was both
masculine and aristocratic as
Siegfried, every inch of his
six-feet a~prince. And his wife
Rowena Jackson was a brilliant
partner, first as the swan
princess, and later as the steely
Odile. The transition from
affectionate softness to the
hard brilliance of the en-
chanter’s daughter was cleverly
done.
From what could be seen of
it, the production by Ninette
de Valois was designed to keep
the action relentlessly flowing
to an inevitable conclusion. It
was the whole of this per-
formance that lingered, not just
isolated moments. An
orchestra under John Lanch-
berry contributed to the drive
of the performance and repro-
duced Tschaikowsky’s music
capably.
The company in general
showed a strong sense of disci-
pline wedded to a youthful
vitality that wiped out any
suggestion of the mechanical
drill of the rehearsal room.
Those parts of Leslie Hurry’s
scenery that happened to
arrive for the performance
were richly romantic, but with
enough of the clear, uncluttered
lines of a Japanese print about
the Act I backdrop to prevent
it from looking over-pretty.
Costumes, some apparently
made at the last moment,
looked fresh and attractive, and
did not betray their hurried
ancestry. The most remarkable
point about all this improvisa-
tion was that the audience
would not have known if the
company had not apologised.
D. J. M.
Artbursts
Young Painters
Though few paintings by the
“Young Painters” at the Terry


REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
77 pa... 6yrs.
ASSETS EXCEED
£55,000,000
PAID UP CAPITAL
£10,000,000
Our Auditors, Messrs. L. B.
Wallace & Son, Chartered
Accountants (Aust.) wish to
state that as at the 31st July, 1958,
the amount of Issued Debenture
Stock was £23,346,000 secured
by First Floating Charge over
the Tangible Assets of the Com-
pany which at bool
exceeded £55,000,000
date.
hat
0/
/o
I.A.C. guarantees fixed quarterly income,
free of exchange
For full details , see Prospectus: your copy available
from Members of Stock Exchanges , 703 Branches of
A.N.Z. Bank Limited or I.A.C. Branches.
Underwriting Brokers:
lan Potter & Co., Melbourne,
Canberra & Sydney.
Trustees for the Debenture Stockholders:
The Perpetual Executors & Trustees
Association of Australia Limited.
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
(Established 28 years)
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE
ADELAIDE • PERTH • HOBART
CANBERRA • NEWCASTLE
WOLLONGONG
GEELONG • BUNBURY
PI 07/27
x/EST
C
Clune Galleries, King’s Cross,
would be remarkable at, say,
the Society of Artists, quite a
Jot of them have enough
modest achievement or hint of
promise to engage attention in
their present isolation.
It is difficult to see them
clearly, with so many crowded
into the limited space ; and it
remains difficult, when you
have disentangled them, to say
where promise is most likely to
lie: in a workmanlike repro-
duction of contemporary
styles, such as you get in
Frances Smith’s large semi-
abstracts, Robert King’s
“Judgement Day” and Frank
Chicken’s green apples after
Cezanne, or in the pieces that
show a feeling for life and
allow a more personal line,
such as Judy Hepper’s lively
elongations of the figure, Brian
Dunlop’s “Bulb Family,” the
drawings of Ross Morrow and
the landscapes of Peter Jeffer-
son and Barbara Holliday.
Either path could lead to the
eventual emergence of an
artist—you can only wait and
see.
Films
“The Vikings’*
The only difference between
this and other Hollywood
“spectacles” is that the poverty
of the story exceeds the expen-
siveness of the production. It
even revives the device of the
child who is sold into slavery
and returns two decades later
to be revealed as the long-lost
heir to the throne.
There are a lot of phoney-
looking battles, with cardboard
stones bouncing off the skulls
of attacking Vikings, and
much skewering of the English
defenders ; and now and then
a hand is hacked off or wolves
dine on a well - nourished
captive. The stout - hearted
Vikings have accents strongly
suggestive of Dallas (Tex.) or
Jacksonville (Fla.); and you
always know that behind young
Erik’s beard lurks Tony Curtis,
tickled pink to be all got up
like this.
Two actors, however, show
to advantage—Ernest Borgnine,
as the tough and lusty king,
and Kirk Douglas, as the war-
like son who ironically gets his
ticket to Valhalla from the
blunt end of a busted sword ;
and the scenery around the
Norwegian fiords is the most
striking ever to have been
Cinema Scoped, Technicolored
or Stereophoned.
At Sydney Regent.
❖ <* ❖
“The Memoirs of Felix
Krull”
This German film with Eng-
lish subtitles is an extended —
too extended—account of how
a young German waiter exer-
cises his charm on a string of
women living in a state of
armed truce with their spouses
at an expensive Paris hotel.
He is a very devil of a fellow,
winning every bedroom with a
mincing grace, and staggering
out practically unmarked.
Interesting, perhaps, if you
happen to be the lucky Felix;
but a bit soporific if you are
not.
At Sydney Lyric.


Telegraphic and Cable address: “Brownhiljs.”
Telephone: 8W1165 <3 lines).
A. H. BROWNHILL & CO.
(A. H. Brownhill, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
27 O’Connell Street - -- -- -- -- - Sydney
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatinax" Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771—8 W 8088
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia, Ltd.
'T'he close of accounts on September 30
last rounded-off the National’s
centenary year.
This notable climacteric was coincident
with a record profit, which, however,
didn’t extend to covering a 2 p.c. cen-
tenary bonus plus the apparently now
regularised 9 p.c. dividend paid to share-
holders.
The total payout, £1,109,794, exceeded
declared net earnings by £137,472, and
reserves were called on to this extent.
Gross earnings rose by £316,753 to
£9,876,888, offsetting a £271,095 increase
in operating costs, which were £8,133,414
for the financial year. The allowance
for income, land and other taxes was
virtually unchanged at £771,152, and the
balance, being consolidated net profit
for the year, was £972,322, a gain of
£45,515:
National and Subsidiaries.
Dividends. Writ- To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit 8 p.c. ten off. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1953.. 669,004 538,082 100,000 30,922 5,965.788
9 p.e.
1954.. 741,394 605,342 100,000 36,052 6,001,840
Share premiums, £1,008,904 . . 7,010,744
From inner reserves, £991,096 .. 8,001,840
Unexplained addition. £7135 .. 8,008,975
1955.. 900,056 762.640 337,416 8,146,391
3956.. 954,152 908.013 46,139 8,192,530
1957.. 926,807 908.013 18,794 8,211,324
11 p.c.
1958.. 972,322 1,109,794 8,073,852
In the balance - sheet, total assets were
shown £858,531 higher, and are now
nearly £293 million. Advances rose by
more than £2l| million, at the expense
of liqu d assets mainly, and to a large
extent took the form of further accom-
modation for primary - producer cus-
tomer. The chief increase in liabilities
came from an added £759,892 of
depositors’ money:
Consolidated Balance-sheet
1956 1957 1958
Paid capital £10,089,037 £10,089,037 £10,089,037
Reserves . . 8,192,530 8,211,324 8,073,852
Notes .. 47,478 47,478 47,478
Deposits, etc. 252,373,888 272,895,857 273,655,789
Due other
hanks .. 211,172 255,835 269,364
Final divs. 454,007 454,007 655,787
£271,368.112 £291,953,538 £292,791,307
Liquids . . 75,139,473 83.722,803 74,752,731
Special a/c 39,437,000 53,837,000 41,137,000
Loans,
advances.. 147,829,425 142,595,127 164,252,421
Premises . . 5.871,851 8,253,592 8,971,902
Other assets 3,090,363 3,545,016 3,677,253
£271,368.112 £291,953,538 £292,791,307
Liquid assets (including the special
account) were, at balance-date, £21.7
million lower at £115.9 million, repre-
senting Bs. 6d. in the pound of deposits
compared with 10s. Id. in the previous
year. Main falls were £5.5 million in
Treasury bills, £5.9 million in Govern-
ment securities, and £12.7 million in the
special account.
Advances were £21.7 million higher
at £164.3 million and represented 60 p.c.
of deposits. To the largely Government-
fostered expansion of credit is due the
improvement in the year's income, but it
is unlikely that any expansion of the
credit-base in the current year, by special-
account releases and Treasury - bill
financing by the Government, will do
much more than offset the reduction in
export income.
So far this year, there has been only
the one release from the special-account
funds held by the eentral bank, the £l5
million announced last week, which was
the first since July last year.
From March to July, a succession of
releases totalled £75.2 million, and it seems
probable that this sum will be matched
by similar releases this calendar year.
Of the item for other assets shown in
the balance-sheet, presumably £2
million would relate to the par-value of
shares held in the financier affiliate, Cus-
tom Credit Corporation, Ltd., a money-
spinner in which the bank has held a
40 p.c. interest since 1954, being one
of the first of the private banks to venture
into hire-purchase.
The small upward change in the bank’s
“other assets’’ is surprising, in view of
Custom Credit’s two-for-three par-issue
last year, which was payable in full by
July 11, and would have involved the
National for £BOO,OOO.
Last year the National received
£lBO,OOO in dividends from Custom
Credit, whose ss. shares are at present
fetching 13s. 6d. on ’Change. At current
prices, therefore, the National’s equity
is worth well over £5 million.
Worthy of note is the commissioning
by the National of a history of its not-
always sedate career, and this meritorious
tome, written by Geoffrey Blainey,
makes excellent reading for the histori-
cally inclined.
A century of trading has mellowed
the National, and brought it to its present
position as the third-largest of the seven
big private banks native to Australia
today, with upwards of 850 branches and
agencies throughout the continent.
Internal strife, however, marred its
beginnings. Shareholders today can be
mere relaxed than their predecessors in
1859, at which time half of the board
had successfully thrown-out (literally)
the other half, including the chairman ;
and the general-manager, dismissed by
the same faction, was heatedly refusing
to relinquish his post.
Nor are shareholders likely to be faced
this year with the prospect of having to
forgo their dividend owing to the
directors’ having overborrowed from the
bank’s resources for their private pur-
poses, as happened to the shareholders
of 1859.
The National issued its prospectus in
Melbourne in 1857. Thereafter progress,
mainly confined to Victoria and South
Australia, was only moderate until 1918,
when the Colonial Bank was absorbed.
Three years later ? the National swallowed
the Bank of Queensland, itself an amal-
gamation of the Bank of North Queens-
land and the Royal Bank of Queensland.
In 1947 the Queensland National Bank
was taken-over.
New issues to shareholders have been
infrequent in latter years. The 1955 one-
for-two issue of 1,863,012 20s. ords. at
265. each and 2,400,000 paid to 12s. 6d.
at 16s. 3d. —a 30 p.c. premium in both
cases —was the first since 1928.
Visible earning-rates since the last issue
have been steady, sufficient to cover a
9 p.c. div.-rate and little more. The 9.7
p.c. declared last year compares with
9.2 p.c. in 1956-57 and 9.5 p.c. in
1955-56.
Currently, the fully-paid 20s. shares
are priced at 365. 6d.; those paid to
12s. 6d. at 225. 9d., for a yield of 4.9 p.c.
in each case, the uncalled liability of
the contribs. being entirely discounted.
At balance-date, the respective net tan-
gible asset backings were 325. Bd. and
255. 2d.
The Myer Emporium, Ltd.
Tn another record - breaking year, the
success of which is better indicated
by the £1,554,275 tax-provision than by
the £1,822,462 group-profit, the Mel-
bourne-registered Myer Emporium and
its subsidiaries last term reckoned their
combined sales at over £1,000,000 a week.
Ord. shareholders did better, too, the
div.-rate advancing to 16f p.c., after three
years at 15 p.c.
Australia’s biggest retailer, in terms of
turnover, the Myer organisation draws
the bulk of its income from large, inner-
city department - stores in Melbourne,
Adelaide and Brisbane, entry into the
last-named city being gained by the pur-
chase of McWhirters, Ltd., late in 1955.
Smaller units trade in Victoria’s second
and third cities, Geelong and Ballarat,
while a textile - offshoot, Wendouree
Woollen Mills Pty., turns-out blankets,
woollen - textiles, underwear and outer-
wear.
The efficiently-run group, which, if a
current bid is successful, will shortly
include the old-established Hobart re-
tailer, Brownells, Ltd., handles a com-
prehensive range of merchandise on a
quick-turnover, low profit-margin basis
and, in common with similarly well-
located retailers operating on the same


G. H. PARTRIDGE & CO.
1., D. PARTRIDGE, A. G. HANSON
(Members o'f the Sydney Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
113 Pitt Street, Sydney Telephone: BL 5031-2
Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdale” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
R. H. ALLEN
P. R. LEVY
Members of The Sydney
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911.
M. R. L. DOWLING
A. P. REYNOLDS
Slock Exchange.
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
principles, has, so far, shown little sign
that it is losing ground to suburban rivals.
However, to cash-in on trade diverted
to suburban centres by inner-city con-
gestion, high transport-costs and sheer
distance, the parent co., last year revealed
plans for a big regional shopping-centre
in the Melbourne suburb of Chadstone,
the subsequent purchase of land in
Sydney's none-too-sacrosanct “green-
belt” giving rise to rumors that a similar
move may be contemplated in Sydney.
The heavy demand for television-
leceivers brought about a “spectacular
increase” in the parent co.’s h.-p. sales
last term, and, for the first time, there
was a full carry-fprward in the group’s
accounts of that portion of the earnings
on h.-p. transactions attributable to
future years. Unearned income at the
beginning of the term, not previously
provided for, was covered by transferring
£321,983 from reserves and £193,098
(representing tax over-provided under the
altered method of accounting) from the
tax-provision.
These adjustments prevent an accurate
comparison of last term’s earnings with
those of the preceding year, but if the
adjustments are taken as being wholly-
applicable to 1956-57, as they have been
in the following table, the parent co.’s
share of the consolidated profit was
£207,190 higher at £1,444,153, and the
annual provision for tax, on group earn-
ings of £1,822,462, £234,711 higher at
£1,554,275:
Parent Only.
Dividends To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total.f serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
’53.. 612,951 9 p.c. lOp.c. 419,961 192,990 3,980,509
Stock-fluctuation reserve, £lOO,OOO ..4,080,509
Tax overprovided, £23,436 . . . . 4,103,945
’54.. 737,068 9 p.e. 121p.c. 508,398 228,070 4,332,615
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Added on consolidation, £1,575,857.-5,908,472
Less adjustment outside interest, £9666 5,898,806
Tax underprovided, £4326 .. ..5,894,480
Reduction intangibles, £15,493 ..5,909,973
From marine-insurance fund, £250,000 6,159,973
Unexplained addition, £18,826 ..6.178,799
’55..1,013,100 9 p.c. lop.c. 596,835 416,265 6,595,064
Tax overprovided, £17,769 .. .. 6,612,833
Profit on sale and revaluation assets
(£1,822,793), less unexplained ad-
justments to inter-co. holdings,
minority interest, etc., £689,232. . 7,302,065
Less increase in intangibles, £618,224 6,683,841
’56..1,117,949 9 p.e. 15p.c. 742,412 375,537 7,059,378
Profit sale assets, £19,763 .. .. 7,079,141
Tax overprovided, £18,921 .. ..7,098,062
Reduction intangibles, £27.943 ..7,126,005
Unexplained addition, £15,354 . . 7,141,359
’57..1,236.963 9 p.c. Isp.c. 742,462 494,501 7,635,860
Profit, sale assets, £171,989 ..7.807.849
Tax overprovided, £22,371 .. .. 7,830,220
Reduction, intangibles, £48,126 .. 7,878,346
Unexplained reduction, £13,452 . . 7,804,894
’58..1,444,153 9p.c. 16gp.c. 817,739 626,414 8,491,308
* After deducting intangibles, £603,113 at 31/7/’5B.
f Including staff partner and employee shares.
Forced to write-down stocks to accord
with lower wool - values, Wendouree
Woollen Mills turned-in a loss of £58,401
for the year, but, against this, the partly-
owned Myer Emporium (S.A.), Ltd., set
new records for both turnover and earn-
ings, while “satisfactory” progress was
reported by the Brisbane, Geelong and
Ballarat stores. All told, net sales rose
by £3.7 million to £54.1 million, this
gain, with a further reduction in the
ratio of expenses to sales, more than
compensating for a slip in retail gross-
profit margins.
The lift in the div.-rate was a com-
fortable matter, the profit, after deducting
divs. on pref. and employee scrip,
equalling a return of 30.5 p.c. on ord.
capital, compared with 25.9, 23.3 and 26.8
p.c. in the three years back to 1955.
If, as expected, the bid for Brownells
is successful, 90 ss. ords. in Myer
Emporium will be issued in exchange
for every 100 ss. ords. in the Tasmanian
co. On completion of a current two-for-
five issue (at an 80 p.c. premium)
Brownells will have a paid capital of
£260,022 for which Myer is offering
scrip with a par-value of £234,020 and
a market-value of over £1,000,000. The
deal would take Myer’s paid capital to
£5,505,639, including £655,450 in 9 p.c.
prefs. and £99,500 in staff-partnership
shares.
The last issue to Myer shareholders
was a hefty one-for-one bonus handout
in 1951. Dropped from Ilf p.c. to
p.c. after this issue, the div.-rate was
increased to 10 p.c. in 1953, 124 p.c. in
1954 and 15 p.c. in 1955.
The big increase in credit and h.-p.
sales was behind some of the year’s major
balance - sheet movements, book - debts
rising by £1,945,302, and the provision
for unearned income, after allowing for
adjustments relating to prior years, by
£583,854. Considering the improvement
in turnover, the £269,234 reduction in
stocks deserves a mention and, with the
stock-sales ratio, suggests careful buying
and efficient stock-control:
Consolidated Balance-sheet
Capital— 1956 1957 1958
Pref. .. £655.450 £655,450 £655,450
Orel. . . 4,616,169 4,616,169 4,616,169
Reserves . . 7,738.560 8,287,099 9,094,421
Minority interest 1.968,882 2,091,158 2,298,546
Mortgages .. 2,041,700 1,997,450 2,152.950
Notes . . . . 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,093,331
Overdraft .. 90.257 821.721 891,310
Deposits .. 1,621,818 1,578,964 1,636,180
Creditors . . 3,085,805 3,508,529 3,527.124
Unearned income 714,547 1,298,401
Tax provision 1,536,666 1,331,918 1,392.902
Final div. . . 489,306 489,306 451,667
£24,544.613 £27,092,311 £29,108,451
Freeholds, etc. 6,517,739 6,901,956 7.108,508
Plant, fittings.. 1,984,567 2.275,989 2,404.499
Investments . . 560,331 370,888 334,107
Stock . . . . 7,687,892 7.914,071 7,644.837
Debtors . . 5,077,752 5,587,576 7,532,878
Suspense . . 294.763 236,287 292,144
Cash, deposits 2,042,387 3,154,305 3,188,365
Intangibles . . 617,182 651,239 603,113
£24,844.613 £27,092.311 £29,108,451
At July 31 last the group had approxi-
mately £2 in current assets for every
£ of current liabilities, the robust
financial structure including reserves of
£9,094,421 in support of a £5,271,619
share-capital.
In a move designed to release sizeable
loan-funds tied-up in outside business
and needed to finance its own h.-p. trans-
actions, Myer sold its 40 p.c. share-
interest in Economic Holdings, Ltd., to
the Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney
at the end of last term, accepting 12s. 6d.,
or about half the market-value, for each
of its 400,000 10s. ords. in the finance
co. (The bank's h.-p. affiliate, Commercial
and General Acceptance, Ltd., then
acquired the whole of Economic Hold-
ings, capital with an offer of 255. in
cash or four ss. contribs. paid to 2s. 6d.
for each share.)
With a healthy earning-rate and over
£2,000,000 of revaluation reserves in the
parent’s accounts, there is ample scope
for a bonus-issue, but, if an issue is con-
templated, the odds would appear to
favor a cash subscription as the co. plans
to spend around £5,000,000 on the Chad-
stone centre and other building projects.
This outlay will be financed, according to
the board, by “normal company-finance
methods.”
In any event, by pricing the ss. ords.
at 255., the sharemarket appears to have
made adequate allowance for any immi-
nent gains, the scrip, at that price, return-
ing a modest £3 6s. Bd. p.c. from a 16|
p.c. div. At balance-date the consolidated
accounts showed a net tangible backing
of 14s. sd. for each ss. unit.
Provincial Traders Holdings, Ltd.
TPhe fast-growing Queenslander, Pro-
vincial Traders Holding, Ltd., has
developed in a quite attractive fashion
since it opened its share-register to the
public in 1951. The co. completed its
first term, in June of that year, with a
modest £24,104 net profit and an all-ord.
paid capital of £250,000 (a large part of
which was raised during the term), the
next seven years seeing an almost three-
fold increase in paid capital and a more
than fivefold increase in net profit.
Through its three operating sub-
sidiaries, Provincial Traders Pty.,
Fertiliser Distributers Pty. and Fondants
(Q’ld.) Pty., the holding-co. is concerned
with the manufacture and distribution
of margarine, dripping, fertilisers, pesti-
cides and sugar products. The two main
factories are on large freehold sites in
Brisbane and there are smaller fertiliser-
plants in Mackay and Cairns and depots
in most of the principal agricultural
districts of Queensland. The margarine
offshoot, which -markets industrial mar-
garine in all States, handles N.S.W.
business from its own warehouse in
Sydney.
Benefiting from wartime demands and
from the subsequent inability of
southern supplies to meet Queensland re-
quirements, the 30-year-old operating-
cos. have forged ahead rapidly over the
last decade, and their combined turn-
over last term appears to have been in
the vicinity of £3,000,000, compared with


RALPH W. KING & YUILL
RALPH W. KING W. KEITH YUILL K. C. PHILLIPS
lAN C. WALTON GORDON G. KING
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange
113 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. BL 5771-2-3
Cables and Telegrams: “Ralphking" Sydney
Branches at Grafton and Armidale
y&i/f* .
So/ic/for
will tell you:
fSTv
The pitfalls of
home-made Wills
For example:
© Unless your Will so provides, your
Executor may not be able to carry on
your business; he may have to apply to
the Court for special authority to do so.
© If, in your Will, you leave a share to
someone who predeceases you, the law
may provide that such a share be dealt
with as though you had died without
making a Will.
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited
does not prepare Wills, but is always
available to act as your Executor. Why
not call and discuss your Will with us?
There is no obligation on your part. Ring
B 0377 and make an appointment.
PERPETUAL
TRUSTEE COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR & TRUSTEE. AGENT UNDER POWER OP
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES & OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR,
ETC.
DIRECTORS: HON. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., chairman;
SIR EDWARD KNOX, vice-chairman ; ALLEN C. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAGHT; JOHN W. DUNLOP; JOHN DARLING;
A. G. ARMYTAGE, managing director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £90.000.000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT ORANGE & TAMWORTH
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (CANBERRA) LTD.
M.L.C. BUILDING, PETRIE STREET, CANBERRA CITY.
LOCAL DIRECTORS IN addition TO THOBE MENTIONED ABOV«S
WARREN D. MCDONALD (VICE-CHAIRMAN),
S. G. McFABLANE, NEVILLE C. MILSON.
gross sales of a little over
£BOO,OOO in 1950-51.
Although a careful div.-
policy has left a large propor-
tion of the earnings available
for reinvestment, liberal help-
ings of new share-capital have
been needed to finance this
growth. These have come from
par-issues, the last of which
was a relatively small, one-
for-10 affair in 1957 and
lifted paid capital to £729,201.
Turning to a cheaper form of
finance, the co. late last term
offered shareholders, and
others, £500,000 of 8 p.c. notes
convertible into ords. in 1968
at a 25 p.c. premium.
To date, earnings have
responded well to the intro-
duction of fresh capital and an
8 p.c. div.-rate gave way to a
well-covered 9 p.c. distribu-
tion in 1957: —
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Re-
June, Profit.* , —Dividend.—serves.!
£ p.c. £ £
1951.. 24,104 4 10,000 3,809
Undistributed-profits tax,
etc., £1328 ... .. 2,481
1952.. 34,631 8 20,000 17,112
1953.. 49,802 8 23,200 43,714
1954.. 60,247 8 26,482 77,479
1955.. 63,106 8 .33,145 107,440
1956.. 71,250 8 41,200 137,490
less adjustment goodwill
on consolidation. £lB 137,472
1957. . 112,271 9 57,084 192,659
Intangibles written-off,
etc., £937 .. .. 191.722
1958.. 129,034 9 62,976 257,780
* Less proportion attributable to
outside shareholders,
t Subject to intangibles, £23,030
at June 30, 1958
Restrictions on the production
of table-margarine (limited at
present to an annual quota of
1644 tons) hindered the mar-
garine offshoot again last term,
but the Australia-wide trade in
quota-free industrial margarine
continued to expand and, with
fertiliser sales at a new peak,
net profit rose by £16,763 to
£129,034. However, the im-
provement in pre-tax earnings
(up £5123 at £208,560 after
allowing an extra £2230 for
depreciation) was less marked,
an £11,500 drop in the tax
provision (£79,500) contribut-
ing to the improved showing.
The profit was equal to a
return of 18.4 p.c. on average
share-capital, compared with
17.7, 13.8 and 15.2 p.c. in the
three years back to 1955, and,
incidentally, would have
covered a 9 p.c. div. on the
note-money, as well as on
share capita], with over £lB,OOO
to spare.
There was a further heavy
outlay on fixed assets last term,
a net £268,729 going into free-
holds, plant, etc., but, as the
note-money was gathered in
during the last weeks of the
term, the co. was able to finish
the year with working-capital
£321,083 stronger at a very
comfortable £624,773:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1957. 1958.
Paid capital .. £662,910 £729,201
Reserves .. 192,658 257,780
Minority interest 2,929 2,610
Notes .. .. 180,500
Overdraft .. 91,600
Creditors, etc. .. 231,482 217,011
Tax prov. .. 89,175 80,021
Final div. .. 32,328 36,460
£1,303,082 £1,803,583
Freeholds .. 258,180 461,053
Plant, etc. .. 295,379 361,235
Investments .. 3,174 3.179
Stock . . . . 459,137 535,383
Book-debts ~ 283,356 299,981
Cash, etc. .. 2,008 119,722
Intangibles .. 1,248 23,030
£1,303,082 £1,803,583
After a big jump in the pre-
ceding term book-debts rose
by only £16,625, although
stocks (up £76,246) continued
to increase at a rather rapid
rate and in two years have risen
by 48 p.c. The growth of
share-capital has, so far, out-
stripped that of reserves, but
the note-issue should reverse
this trend, at least temporarily,
over the next few years. At
June 30 last the f.-p. £l s ords.
had a net tangible cover of
265. sd.
Satisfactory results were
obtained in the first quarter of
the current term, and the co.'s
immediate prospects seem
reasonably bright, with a 10
p.c. div. as a distinct possibility
in the not-too-distant future.
On a 9 p.c. basis the £1 ords.
would yield £5 16s. Id. p.c. at
315., the convertible notes
giving a return to conversion
of £6 13s. 4d. p.c. at 245.
John Darling and Son
(Australia), Ltd.
/"\nly a small rise in profit
shows-up in John Darling’s
first public accounting, despite
a sizeable increase in capi-
talisation. Much of the new
money was, however, gathered-
in late in the term.
Pre-tax profit for the parent
and its subsidiaries was
£215,016, after charging de-
preciation at £56,588. Deduc-
tion of a £76,409 taxation pro-
vision and £1467 appertaining
to outside shareholders left a
net £137,140, compared with
the £127,675 disclosed for the
previous term. There was
only £27,602 to carry forward
after dividends totalling
£107,623 had been paid, the
ords. at the rate of 8 p.c.
absorbing £90,000.
A fiourmiller primarily,
John Darling converted to
public status at an inauspicious
time for the industry.
On the one hand there was
the generally poor season
throughout 1957-58, which
resulted in flour exports from
N.S.W. being entirely banned
between December 1, 1957, and
October 1, 1958. On the other
there has been a tendency to-
ward oversupply in the flour
export-market, sharply reduc-
ing receipts from this quarter.
A well-established business,
incorporated last March, John
Darling and Son in April, 1958
issued 1,200,000 ordinary
shares of 10s. each and
293,718 20s. 6 p.c. cumu-
lative prefs. at part-considera-
tion to the vendors.
Total cash involved in the
deal was £1,043,718, and the
vendors reinvested their
£150,000 balance in the recon-
structed group in exchange for


EXPORTERS
Wish to exchange ideas and in-
formation leading to opening
small import business in Dallas-
Fort Worth trade area. Please
write:
CORBYN, C/o Box 9111,
Fort Worth, Texas. U.S.A.
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
et„. Makers of Classifiers,
Mater .filters. Steam Valves,
INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant
supervision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Est. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
1C Spring Street, SYDNEY - 27-3444
108 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - MU 4081
6 p.c. convertible notes. The
public didn’t come in very
big, being offered a mere
300,000 10s. ords.
There was a further issue
during the year, 750,000 ords.,
which went to Spillers, Ltd.,
the big U.K. flourmiller, which
also took-up £375,000 of con-
vertible notes.
Exercise of an entitlement
held by original shareholders
brought the total of convert-
ible notes to £795,000 at
balance-date.
Of the notes, £120,000
converts to ords. at par on a
pound-for-pound basis in 1963;
£525,000 in 1968 ; and £150,000
in 1973 ; so the co. has a
reasonable time in which to
boost its earning-rate.
Prospective buyers of John
Darling equity-scrip will note,
of course, that this great wad
of note-money considerably
restricts their increment
expectations.
The milling industry as a
whole hasn't proven itself an
overly lucrative investment
medium, but John Darling is
exceptionally well placed
within that industry.
Assessment of the ords. at this
stage isn’t easy. At 14s. 2d.,
with a yield of 5.6 p.c. from
an 8 p.c. dividend, they don’t
look exactly bargain-basement.
The balance - sheet is
obviously a transitional affair,
requiring little comment at
this stage:
Paid capital:— 1958
Pref. .. .. .. .. £293,718
Ord 1,125,000
Reserves 307,757
Outside interest .. .. 11,074
Mortgage 15,900
Convertible notes .. ~ 795,000
Overdraft ~ .. .. 5,850
Creditors ~ ~ ~ 328,892
Tax provision 76,409
Dividend ~ ~ .. 107,623
£3,067,223
Fixed assets .. .. ~ 1,055,656
Investments 580,026
Stock 363,071
Employee loans .. .. 25.709
Book-debts 524,489
Cash, deposits, securities 291,922
Goodwill, etc 226,350
£3,067,223
The bulk of the £226,350 of
net tangibles relates to good-
will on bread-rounds. A tie-up
with extensive Melbourne and
Sydney baking interests gives
the milling side of the business
an assured outlet for its
throughput.
Book-figures show 10s. 9d. as
the net tangible cover for each
10s. ord.
A. J. Veall Electrics, Ltd.
TAhe 15 trading-subsidiaries
of A. J. Veall Electrics,
Ltd., are engaged in the retail
of electrical appliances in Mel-
bourne and suburbs, and in
the wholesale distribution of
the same lines throughout Vic-
toria, but the star profit-
winner for the group is an
associated hire-purchase-cM/n-
-investment concern holding
scrip with a market-value of
over £2,000,000 in more than
200 public cos.
A. J. Veall Electrics holds
1,300,000 £1 15 p.c. prefs. in
this prosperous associate, Cor-
artie Pty., and while the hold-
ing may be increased when
the opportunity offers (as it
did in 1955-56) income from
this source is more-or-less
static. Corartie itself shares in
the fortunes of the domestic-
appliance retailer by relying,
exclusively, on the A. J. Veall
cos. for its h.-p. business.
Holding co. for an organisa-
tion founded in 1911, A. J.
Veall Electrics paid £350,000
in scrip and £150,000 in cash
for the share-capitals of 11
pty. cos. shortly after its for-
mation in 1951. The cash-
content of the purchase price
was subscribed by employees
and the public, subsequent
pref. issues, in 1954 and 1956,
giving the co. a pref. capital
of £475,000. A one-for-one
bonus-issue took ord. capital
to £1,000,000 in 1956 and was
accompanied by an increase in
the pref. div.-rate from 6 p.c.
to 7 p.c. and a reduction in
the ord. rate from 20 p.c. to
15 p.c.
Strong competition and a
weaker demand for many
domestic appliances cut the
group’s pre-tax trading profits
from £143,056 to £83,740 over
the two years to June 30, 1957,
but the now-ebbing TV boom
stopped the drift last term,
sending turnover past the
£3,000,000-mark for the first
time. Up £38,625 at £122,365,
after providing an extra £975
(£13,897) for depreciation and
writing-off note-issue expenses
of £14,000, trading profit was
still well below the 1951 peak
(£161,371), a £44,477 (up
£14,216) provision for taxation
leaving the net trading figure
at £77,888 (up £24,409). This
improvement put the spring
in overall results, a virtually
unchanged £195,484 of invest-
ment income taking consoli-
dated net profit to a record
£273,372, or £24,345 ahead of
the previous term’s showing:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Re-
June, Profit. , Dividends— v serves.*
£ £ £
’53.. 65,100 9 p.c. = 45,000 349,774
-' Profit sale assets, £275 .. 350,049
less subsidiaries’ reserves,
£BB6O 341,189
Intangibles w/off, £Bl5. . 333,039
From investment reserves,
£3774 329,265
Unexplained reduction,
£58,726 270,539
6 p.c. 10 p.e.
Pref. Ord.
’54..103,287 6,650 50,000 317.176
Profit sale assets, £129 . . 317.305
Assets revalued, £517,250 834,555
Unexplained reduction,
£9197 825,35 S
20 p.c.
’55..204.925 12.000 100,000 918,283
Res. capitalised, £500,000 418,283
Loss sale assets, £32 . . 418,251
Tax overprovided, £2576. . 420,827
W/off intangibles, £10,195 410,632
7 p.e. 15 p.c.
’56..245.683 25,340 125,000 505.975
Profit sale assets, £516 .. 506,491
Tax underprovided, £3606 502,885
Share-issue expenses, etc.,
£1484 501,401
Unexpl’d addition, £334.. 501.735
.’57. .249,017 33,615 150.000 567,147
Profit sale assets, £9602. . 576,749
’58..273,372 33,250 150,000 666,871
* Subject to intangibles, £345,533 at
30/6/’5B.
As was the case in the two
preceding years, the £195,000
div. from Corartie was more
than sufficient to meet divs.
on both pref. and ord. capital,
total earnings covering the
pref. charges and 24 p.c. on
ord. capital, compared with
21.5 p.c. in 1957 and 22 p.c.
in 1956.
Corartie’s outstandings, ex-
cluding unearned income, rose
by £777,134 to £1,911,411 over
the year and to feed the h.-p.
associate and ease the tightness
in the group's own accounts,
the parent co. borrowed
£400,000 on 1\ p.c. and 8 p.c.
notes half-way through the
term and went on to raise a
net £318,900 in term-deposits.
Of the funds raised, £450,000
was deposited with Corartie,
the balance, together with
retained earnings and an
additional £92,567 owing to
creditors, covering a big
(£419,700) cut in the overdraft,
small increases in stocks and
book-debts and a net capital
expenditure of £55,359. Com-
mencing the term with current
liabilities and provisions
£335,513 greater than current
assets, the group finished the
year with a slim £102,805 of
working-capital:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1957. 1958
Pref £475,000 £475,000
Old 1.000,000 1,000.000
Reserves ~ 567,147 666,871
Mortages ~ 105,708 99,667
Notes ~ ~ 400,000
Overdraft 491,180 71,480
Deposits ■, 80,000 398.900
Creditors, etc. . . 481.232 573.799
Tax provision ~ 30,261 44.553
Final div. .. 91,625 91,625
£3,322,153 £3,821.895
Freehold .. 244,527 280.838
Plant, etc. •, 84,969 104.017
Shares . . .. 1,808,339 1,808,345
Stock . . . . 438.114 452,047
Debtors, etc. •• 331,709 340.773
Associate co. . . 62,547 485.322
Cash. etc. .. 6,415 5,020
Intangibles ■. 345,533 345,533
£3,322,153 £3,821,895
Although the group got off
to a good start in the current
term, sales of TV-receivers
now appear to have passed
their peak in Victoria (and in
N.S.\y.), recent reductions in
output and fierce price-cutting
competition among distribu-
tors reflecting the less-pressing
demand. In these circum-
stances there seems little
immediate scope for an
improvement in group earnings
and, while there is possibly
room for additional share- or
loan-capital, it may be unwise
to look for early rewards
beyond the 15 p.c. div.
On a 15 p.c. basis, the f.-p.
ss. ords. would return
£6 10s. sd. p.c. at 11s. 6d.,
consolidated accounts at June
30 last showing a net tangible
asset cover of 6s. 7d.


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2 fr
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
Invest in
The longest established hire-purchase company
in Australia,
ta© b
in which the Bank of New South Wales
has a 40% shareholding.
DEBENTURE
STOCK
6 to 10 years
7%
4 years 6*/a% 3 years 6% 2 years 5Vz%
Short Term Stock also available from
3 months at 3Va%
Application Forms and Prospectus
• Any A.G.C. Branch 9 Your Stockbroker
• Bank of New South Wales at any Branch
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
142 Phillip Street, Sydney • BW 2673
Sydney • Melbourne • Brisbane • Adelaide • Perth
Hobart
Underwriting brokers: lAN POTTER & CO.
SI
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Wellington, February 2.
"VTew Zealand entered 1959
with its finances in better
shape than earlier predictions
by Government spokesmen
had led the people to expect.
Overseas exchange trans-
actions for the year to Decem-
ber 31 showed a surplus of
£13.1 million, against a deficit
of £32.2 million in 1957 and a
surplus of £8.9 million in 1956.
The 1958 surplus, however,
was achieved only as a result
of overseas borrowing by the
Government to the extent of
£44.7 million. In 1957 over-
seas borrowing amounted to a
mere £700,000.
On current account, 1958
showed a deficit of £33.5
million, against a deficit of
£39.4 million in 1957 and a
surplus of £1.4 million in
1956.
Export receipts, which the
Minister of Finance, Mr.
Nordmeyer, in his Budget-
speech in June, said could be
as much as £5O million down
on those for 1957, were, as it
turned out, only £10.6 million
down at £273.8 million.
Not all export items showed
a fall.
Meat to the Rescue
Meat really saved the
day. It brought in £84.6
million, an increase of
£13.7 million on the 1957
figure. The rise was due prin-
cipally to sales of meat (mainly
boneless beef) to the United
States. Total receipts for meat
sold to the U.S. rose by £20.1
million to £25 million, but
exports of beef to the U.K.
were much reduced.
Butter receipts increased by
£2 million to £42.6 million,
cheese by £2.9 million to £17.7
million. The lower average
level of prices in each case was
offset by the greater volume
of sales.
Lower prices for wool
caused receipts to fall by £26.5
million, or 24 per cent., to
£82.1 million.
Payments for imports were
£24.1 million down at £274.3
million. Private imports
actually fell by £2B million, but
Government imports rose by
nearly £4 million.
Private import-payments in
the second half of 1958
averaged £19.6 million a
month, compared with monthly
averages of £20.4 million for
the first half of 1958 and of
£24.7 million for the second
half of 1957.
Overseas Borrowing
The amount of official over-
seas borrowing included in
receipts was £44.7 million,
made up as follows:
£ million.
London loan 1976-80 .. 19.6
Drawing on Australian
bank credit 7.4
United States loans .. .. 17.7 *
Total 44.7
The overdraft arranged with
the Midland Bank, London
(up to £lO million available
for two years), was not drawn
on in 1958.
During 1958 the net over-
seas assets of the N.Z. bank-
ing system rose by £10.4 million
from £44.7 million on
January 1 to £55.1 million on
December 31.
Drawings against the Aus-
tralian bank credit £7.4
million are included in
receipts. As they constitute a
liability of the Reserve Bank
in overseas currency, however,
they are, in accordance with
normal practice, deducted from
overseas assets to arrive at the
net figure.
The Reserve Bank points-out
that, in any interpretation of
the rise in net overseas assets,
account should be taken of the
fact that some of the Govern-
ment’s external borrowing
during the year was of a short-
term nature, and that there are
loans maturing amounting to
£3.6 million in 1959 and £8.3
million in 1960.
For December, 1958, there
was a deficit of £2.2 million
compared with a surplus of
£3.5 million in November,
1958, and a deficit of £lO.l
million in December, 1957.
Export receipts amounted to
£24.6 million, more than £5
million better than November,
1958. All items contributed
to the increase particularly
wool, cheese and meat.
Payments in December for
all imports were £24.4 million,
against £22.2 million in
November and £28.9 million in
December, 1957.
Import-control Goes On
Unexpected but gratifying
increases in export earnings
had greatly improved New
Zealand’s financial position,
said the Minister of Finance
in his review of the year’s
results. Ffigher earnings this
year and reduced expenditure
on imports would not remove
the necessity to borrow more
overseas to maintain the
the reserves at a reasonable
figure, he added.
As it was desirable to keep
borrowing down, there could
be no general easing of
import-control. Licences for
imports this year were being
issued on a lower scale than
last year to avoid heavy over-
seas borrowing.
“A vital factor in our
economy is the maintenance of
full employment through the
provision of adequate raw
materials for manufacturing
industry,” he said.
“Till the needs of industry
have been fully assured, it
would be unwise to issue
licences for consumer-goods
which would have to be paid
for out of borrowed money.
When circumstances change
sufficiently to allow an easing
of import-control, the Minister
of Customs will make an
announcement of the extent to
which this is possible.”
The Leader of the Opposi-
tion, Mr. Holyoake, in his
comments on the year's results,
said that they proved, what
the Opposition had always con-
tended, that the Government
had taken “panic measures”
based on a “fantastic estimate”
of export-price trends.
Mr. Nordmeyer’s gloomy
prediction of June last that
export receipts could be £5O
million down for the year, a
prediction which had been
shared by the Prime Minister
and others of his colleagues,
had been exposed as “wildly
inaccurate”—indeed, “absurd.”


Hear the humorous “Duke”
Tritton singing Goorianawa
and Shearing In The Bar.
For free list of songs about
Australia write to:—
WATTLE RECORDINGS
13F Cathedral St., Sydney.
in another room was a man,
killed in the same manner.
The theory was that one of
her previous victims had
returned and got square, or
that some man undergoing the
treatment had recovered suffi-
ciently to realise what was
being done to him, and had got
out of control.
No one was arrested, and
the coroner’s verdict was:
“Murder by some person or
persons unknown.”
Lambing-down was an evil
chapter in the history of the
outback. With the coming of
the motor-car the isolated grog-
shanties were gradually wiped-
out, and now it is only when
a group of old-timers meet
that you will hear such names
as Grawin,- The Shingle Hut,
Tahrone, Boorooma, The
Who’d Ha’ Thought It, The
Flags, The Black Stump and
a few more of the notorious
pubs of the old days.
picked-up our sheep at
Walgett stockyards. It
was an uneventful trip, plenty
of feed, good weather, and we
generally managed to find a
good camp.
Cock was fast becoming a
good bushman, and loved the
life. Dutchy and he were
blood-brothers by this time.
Both were quick-witted and
enjoyed arguing the point, no
matter what the subject might
be. It was a point of honor
between them that no out-
sider should be allowed to
express an opinion or interfere
in any of their discussions. On
one occasion when 1 tried to air
my views both told me in a
very lurid manner that I
didn’t know what I was talking
about. So I sat back and
listened.
At Come-by-Chance we were
well into the Pilliga Scrub.
The road was a cleared line
a chain wide, with huge
cypress-pines and ironbarks
3ft. in diameter and 80ft. to the
first limb. At that time, to the
best of my knowledge, there
was not one sawmill in the
whole area of the Pilliga. There
were a few sleeper-cutters’
camps along the route, and
sleeper-cutting seemed to be
the only effort to make use
of one of the biggest timber
areas in the State.
The land could be taken-up
by free selection by practically
anyone who cared to do so,
and the timber could be ring-
barked and burnt, as though
it were so much valueless
rubbish. The soil was sandy,
and looked on as not worth
clearing, which was indeed a
costly, heart-breaking job, and
little of it had been selected.
It was the end of the First
War that the Pilliga Scrub was
used for soldier-settlement, and
millions of acres of timber
were destroyed to grow wheat.
Probably the greatest example
of short-sightedness ever shown
by any Government in Aus-
tralia.
\X7e went on through Pilliga,
** Gwabegar, Baradine,
Buga 1 d i, Coonabarabran,
Purlewaugh, to Uliman, where
we handed the mob over in
good condition, and all
accounted for.
Sheep-droving is not as
romantic or glamorous as
droving cattle. Cattlemen look
down on the sheepmen with
scorn (that is, if the cattleman
happens to be bigger than the
drover). But sheep will do
me all the time. They are
certainly stubborn, thick-
headed brutes, with a remark-
able capacity for getting into
trouble, such as getting tangled-
up in scrub or falling down
holes. To stroll along, leading
your horse, behind a mob of
good-travelling sheep is the
most peaceful occupation I
know. Of course, they have
their moments, especially
newly-shorn sheep. They can
be somewhat trying.
Uliman was of about 30,000
acres, and ran a sheep to the
acre. Owned and managed by
John Henderson, it was one of
the few stations which realised
that it paid to grow and store
feed for stock against a dry
time. Coming to the home-
stead was like - entering a
village. All the buildings were
grouped round the homestead
in neat, orderly rows, all
painted, each cottage fenced
and with water laid-on. To
the station-hands who had been
living in the hovels on the
western stations it must have
seemed a paradise, especially
to the women. All homes had
a garden and a few fowls.
Half-a-dozen cows were milked
by the station groom, and milk
and butter were always avail-
able.
John Henderson was 6ft. 3in.
in height, and very thin. Dutchy
reckoned he would have to
stand up twice in the one
place to cast a shadow. I think
he would have been
close to 70 then, but
he was still an active man.
To go to the outer paddock he
used a buggy and pair, but
would ride the home-paddocks
on horseback. His hack was
a half-draught known as Bess.
She was very fat and pot-
bellied, and he looked queer
with his long legs stuck out.
A very religious man, he
held church every Sunday in
the homestead, where he would
deliver a sermon, and hymns
would be sung. Cups of
tea and biscuits would then
be handed round; quite a
good idea. Swearing was
absolutely barred, and cruelty
to animals meant the sack.
Booze was not allowed, though
I have an idea John was not
averse to a little Scotch whisky
himself. Perhaps the doctor
had ordered it.
ttarry Hartless, who had
been on Uliman for many
years, told me this story: “Two
years ago, just as shearing
started, two women came
along in a covered van and
asked permission of me to
camp for a week or two. I
recognised them for what they
were at once. Of course, I had
no authority to let them camp,
and referred them to the boss.
He was about a hundred yards
away, and I couldn’t hear what
he said, but I could see he
wasn’t very friendly towards
them. They went off in a
hurry, and presently he came
over to where I was working.
His face was red, and he was
breathing heavily. I said in
a casual way, who were the
ladies, Mr. Henderson? He
turned on me with his eyes
flashing. ‘Ladies, ladies, Hart-
less? They are no ladies. They
are prostitutes.’ Then stalked
away. I had never seen him
so angry before.”
But John Henderson was a
good man. As soon as we
delivered the sheep he offered
us jobs. Having nothing iff
view in the droving line we
told him we would take on
contract work, but were not
interested in working for
station-hands’ wages, and also
stipulated that Dutchy and I
get pens and Cock wool-rolling
i at shearing-time. He agreed to
' our terms, and, after seeing
our references, said he would
see Carson at Bomera and get
us in for the shearing there.
He kept his word, and with
a two-mile fencing-contract and
two adjoining sheds to shear
at we were set for at least
three months.
r T' l HE fence was finished in
good time, and we started
shearing at Bomera. The
sheep were good cutters, and
I kept round the 120-mark.
Dutchy got close to me, but
could not quite catch-up. Cock
got on well at wool-rolling, and
at the bell we always had a
sheep half-shorn for him to
finish-off.
A good lot of men to work
with, there were very few
arguments. The only incident
of note was caused by a chap
singing a song which he


claimed to have written. It
was called “Shearing in a
Bar.” He had a good voice,
sang it well, and got a lot of
applause, but I had composed
the song two years previously,
and was not pleased. So 1 told
him I liked the way he had
sung it, but he was very wrong
in saying he wrote it.
He got very hostile at my
remarks, and a few harsh words
were exchanged. Never liking
to quarrel with workmates, I
dropped the subject, and con-
sidered the matter ended. Next
night the argument flared up
again as we lined-up for tea.
Bomera mess-hut and the
kitchen —or galley, as it was
called—were in the one build-
ing, divided by a partition. We
had to line-up and walk past
an opening about 2ft. square,
and the food was handed out
as we passed.
Shearer’s cooks were never
famous for variety in their
meals. One night it would be
roast mutton, the next stew.
This night it was stew. The
chap, whose name was Billy
West, was in front of me in
the tucker-line, and he looked
over his shoulder and said:
“I still say I wrote that song.”
I replied : “I still say you’re a
liar.” We swapped a few more
remarks of this kind as we
moved along, and the atmo-
sphere was not friendly. He
reached the ‘glory-hole,”
grabbed his plate of stew,
slammed it in my face, and
followed it up with his fists.
I went back, trying to clear
my eyes, while he was whaling
hell out of me.
Dutchy stepped in, and hit
him scientifically behind the
ear, and gave me a chance to
recover.
We adjourned to the grass in
front of the hut. Dutchy
wanted to take my place, but
I reckoned the matter was
too personal for anyone but
myself to deal with. In my
professional fights I had never
felt any animosity toward my
opponents, but in this case 1
had been attacked in a
cowardly way, and having a
plate of hot stew shoved in
my face had hurt my dignity.
It look me two rounds to
put him down. I didn't have it
all my own way. Had he
known anything about boxing
I think he would have beaten
me, but he was very crude,
swinging wildly and wasting a
lot of punches. He didn’t waste
all of them, and those that
didn’t miss had a lot of weight
behind them. And l was glad
when he said he'd had enough.
I lost two days’ shearing
through this scrap. Both eyes
were scalded with the hot stew,
and they were very painful.
Carson came to the hut and
brought a bottle of eye-lotion,
which cleared-up my eyes
quickly. I was happier when
Dutchy and Sock informed me
that Billy, who usually had
been shearing over the hundred,
was having trouble in getting
50.
■VTEARLY all the Bomera team
went to Uliman. Among
the strangers was Dick Hinton,
of Gunnedah. A big man,
always smiling, always ready
for a joke whether it was on
him or somebody else, he was
the fastest and best shearer I
have known. Every sheep was
“pinked,” and seldom did he
cut one. Most shearers pick
their sheep, but Dick always
grabbed the nearest to the pen-
gate. He never seemed to
move fast, but no move was
wasted.
Dick was a very good man
with his hands. He had a
son, whose first name I can't
recall, who fought profession-
ally in Sydney a .few years
later. I think one of his
opponents was Harold Hard-
wick. Don't remember how it
went.
The Davis brothers, Joe and
Darky, also shore at Uliman.
Both were fast, clean men and
kept close to Dick. (About
1914 Joe won the shearing
championship of N.S.W.,
which would mean world's
champion.) The rivalry
between the brothers was fierce,
and, having drawn the same
pen, neither lost the chance of
putting something over when
they could.
The pen had just been filled,
and among the sheep were
three “rosellas.” These are
sheep with the wool falling
off, and a shearer’s idea of
paradise is a pen full of rosellas.
First catch for both men was
a rosella, and each had his eye
on the other. Joe finished a
blow ahead of Darky, pulled
his machine out of gear, kicked
his sheep down the chute, and
put his hand on the gate, with
a happy grin. But Darky
wasn’t going to be beaten so
easily. He threw his sheep
down, held his machine, still
running, reached over the rail
and grabbed the rosella, hoisted
it on to the board, and had it
half-shorn while Joe stood
with his mouth open, too
surprised to move. Then he
joined in the storm of laughter
which swept the shed.
Joe and Darky have farms of
their own, each running about
3000 sheep. Comfortably olf,
their only complaint is that
they have to pay £7 10s. per
hundred to get their sheep
shorn, and they never got more
than £1 ; but they can still
laugh when Uliman is men-
tioned.
'T'hree days before the cut-
out an event occurred
which will always stick in my
memory.
We had finished a flock of
ewes of about 2000 by four-
o'clock. and they had been put
in the shed-paddock ready for
the musterers to take away, it
was a nice warm day, with a
few fleecy clouds about, and
no sign of any change. But «.t
came in the form of a hail-
storm, which, though it lasted
barely 10 minutes, killed over
800 sheep.
MacDonald, the boss of the
board, and his men saw it
coming and tried to get the
sheep back in the pens, but
as soon ‘as the hail struck, the
ewes formed-up in bunches and
refused to move.
MacDonald stopped the
engine, and every man was
carrying sheep into the shed,
and piling them together to try
to warm them. Most of those
we got to the shed survived,
and the toughest of the others
lived, I think, because they
kept moving.
The paddock was only of 10
acres, and it seemed to be
covered with little white bodies.
Had the hail been of any size
the losses would have been
trifling, but most of it was
very fine, something like sago,
and went right to the roots of
the shorn wool, so that in the
short period of the storm the
sheep were practically encased
in ice.
It was a hard hit for Hender-
son, for like most of the
squatters he was heavily mort-
gaged. (Till then, and for
many years after, I had never
received a cheque in the name
of the man who was supposed
to own the station. All were
endorsed by the Australian
Land Mortgage and Finance
Company, New Zealand Loan,
or one of the big woolbroking
firms. Wool had to be good
to bring a shilling a pound in
the market, so the squatter had
his troubles, the same as the
shearer.)
As the shearers had lost two
hours' shearing, Henderson
offered to make it up, accord-
ing to each man’s tally, but we
turned it down. (Before leav-
ing Henderson I would like to
mention that before coming to
Uliman he had managed
Quantambone, west of Bre-
warrina, which employed the
greatest number of shearers in
any shed in Australia. Quan-
tambone was a blade-shed, and
(Continued on page 44)


Living
Dangerously
by
E. O. SCHLUNKE
As I was hurrying, and
telling myself not to
hurry, to catch up to
the tail-end of the large
country-funeral crowd spread-
ing in its deceitfully smooth
and rapid manner over the
cemetery, a reaction to the
crawl of the procession through
the main street of the town,
or, I sometimes suspected,
eagerness to get a ringside posi-
tion near the open grave, I
heard someone softly calling
my name.
A man nearly as late as I
was, whom I hadn’t noticed in
my haste, stepped respectfully
and regretfully across a couple
of neglected, fallen-in mounds
—as if this would be less
offensive than infringing on a
neatly railed and headstoned
one —to intercept me. He put
his hand on my arm to stop
me. It was my friend Torrens.
“Ah, now, now! ” he said in
a mock-warning voice. “Rush-
ing about at that speed! Are
you ambitious to be the subject
of the next interment?”
I stopped and deliberately
relaxed.
“You know,” he said, “you
and I are just the sort of
people who should be going to
funerals. In our condition
we’re pretty likely to go next;
and we can’t expect a large
crowd at our shows if we don’t
go to other peoples’, now can
we, heh?”
He ended with a subdued
but gratified chuckle. This was
the sort of crack high blood-
pressure cases greet with a wry
smile at first, but after a while
come to enjoy as something
particularly exclusive and
esoteric.
“You think of everything
for the condemned man,” I
told him; “the legal, the
financial, and now the social
provisions.”
“I suppose you could call it
social,” he said, thinking it
over with a lawyer’s axelike
sharpness for the exact mean-
ing of the word. “Unless you
called it recreational.”
“Surely not recreational,” I
objected.
“It’s a sad state of affairs,”
he said, shaking his head,
“when we have to consider
going to funerals a recreation.
You could put up quite an
argument in support, you
know. A sort of plea by
elimination. Since we can’t
drink, smoke, or play.sports ;
and love-making, except of the
most legitimate and unexciting
character, must be attended by
prohibitive risk, what else is
there in the recreational field ?’’
He spread his hands. “A pretty
poor outlook for men of fifty
or so.”
He smiled sardonically at the
approach of an agent for a
large wool- and stock-broking
firm.
“Here’s another,” he said,
real derision in his voice.
HThere was reason of a sort
for Torrens, or both of us,
f or that matter, disapproving
of Templeman. He represented
the growing intrusion of big
city interests into country
towns ; a development strongly
resented by many country
people. The office Templeman
occupied had belonged to a
district iirm for several gener-
ations. More recently it had
operated in conjunction with a
big city concern ; then, when
the pinch had come, sold-
out to them. Templeman, the
manager, had come from head-
office.
Today he was in rather a
state because he had a wreath
to deliver, and had missed the
proper opportunity. This, with
the heat of the sun and his
unwise corpulence, was fretting
him. He came up behind us as
if using us to screen his late-
ness and his embarrassment ;
as wretched as though the
whole of the nation-wide
organisation he represented
was aware that he had failed
it by being late.
Torrens stopped him.
“Relax, man,” he said. “The


poor old deceased isn’t likely
to be impatient for his flowers.”
Templeman paused, sus-
picious of Torrens, irresolute
and uneasy. Torrens gave me
a questioning look that showed
he wanted to try-out his crack
about the next burial again,
but I shook my head. So he
became earnest, and turned to
the agent:
“How are you getting on
with your mevasine?”
This is the non-scientific
name for a drug for control-
ling blood-pressure, which
Templeman’s doctor was try-
ing-out on him, and which he
was prone to talk about at
objectionable length.
“Oh, very well,” Templeman
said, “as long as I take the
right dose. You see, the stuff
acts more strongly if I have a
lot of exercise, or if the weather
gets hot after I’ve taken it. I’ve
got to anticipate these things
when I’m deciding how much
to take. If I don’t make any
mistake in my estimate, my
pressure is normal all day.”
“Good Lord!” Torrens ex-
claimed, delighted. “Now say,
one morning, after drawing-up
your programme and listen-
ing to the weather forecast, you
calculate your dose and take it
before leaving home, antici-
pating a cool, cloudy day, and
that all the exercise you’ll have
will be driving to your office
and sitting at your desk. But
just as you get out of your car,
a gust of wind blows your hat
off, and as you start to chase
it, the sun suddenly comes out
strongly . .
“I'd just let the hat go,”
Templeman declared. “I’ve lost
several hats that way. But a
man’d be a fool to risk a black-
out, or even death, over a hat.”
Torrens’s glance moved in-
terestedly to Templeman’s hat,
which, out of respect for the
occasion, he was carrying in
his hand. A mischievous smile
twitched the corners of his
mouth as he turned to me.
“There, you see,” he said
gravely, “that explains why the
representative of a very im-
portant company wears such
cheap hats.”
Templeman looked up at the
taller man indignantly.
“I paid five pounds for this
hat !” he declared.
TTe moved a few yards away
from us, standing as
though only necessity kept him
in our vicinity. Torrens studied
him in his heavy-lidded
manner, acute boredom
struggling with the necessity
for provoking entertainment
from his country-town exis-
fence. He took a step towards
Templeman and said porten-
tously: “Do you know what
we were discussing before you
arrived?”
Templeman glanced at him,
interpreting the move as con-
ciliatory, but still watchful.
“Well, it was the fact that
we’re likely to be the objects
of interest at funerals in the
near future. We thought we
ought to take some steps to
ensure that our departures shall
be marked with the dignity and
impressiveness worthy of
citizens of our standing.”
Templeman frowned, but
Torrens kept on.
“Now, 1 won’t keep you a
moment,” he said, becoming
more and more solemn. “I can
see that you want to do some-
thing about that wreath. All
that I’m asking you, as a fellow-
man who shares a great danger
with us, is that you make a
promise that you will attend
our funerals, while we, on the
other hand, will promise to
attend yours, should you go
before us.”
Templeman’s face showed
that in his opinion Torrens had
gone far beyond the bounds of
accepted behavior. He made
a deeply-embarrassed noise in
his throat and left us without a
word, turning startled eyes
back at us several times, so that
he nearly stumbled over the
mounds.
The funeral was over soon,
and the people began to flow
back to their cars, but Torrens
stood there irresolute.
“That creep, Templeman,”
he said feelingly, “tottering
about with his wreath! What
did old Bob mean to him?
Nothing! Now he’ll go back
to his office to tell his book-
keeper to make a debit entry:
‘Wreath for client’s funeral,
one pound.’ And he’ll never
think of Bob again.”
“He might die soon,” I said
to cheer him.
“They’d only appoint a
worse manager.”
T met Torrens again that
night, as we were both
escaping from a tedious public
meeting. He glanced at his
watch.
“Just time for our tiny
daily ration before the pubs
close. We’ll go and see Mrs.
Moorshead; that’s one
pleasure we don’t need to deny
ourselves.”
We set off, walking quickly.
“Damn’ nice woman, Mrs.
Moorshead. Got the brightest
face I’ve ever seen.”
“It’s her conservation that
I like; never heard anything
so lively.”
(<Continued on page 45)
Faith in the
Future
Among the major performances of Australia
in the past few years I believe we can well count
the enhancing of our country’s appeal to
foreign investors.
The president of the International Bank, Mr.
Eugene R. Black, underlined the point recently
when he said that the already substantial overseas
investment in Australia should show a steady
increase in the future.
He was recalling that £675-million had come
to this country in overseas private capital between
1948 and 1957; and more than £l4O-million had
been provided by the World Bank itself, making
Australia the bank’s second largest borrower.
It is true, as the eminent banker has said,
that investment-interest in Australia is growing,
and at an accelerating rate.
But I think that while accepting this fact,
we should profit- from Mr. Black’s remark that
many important investors in the world are still
ignorant of the opportunities for growth which
Australia offers.
In other words, the drive that has been so
well begun to interest potential investors must be
carried on and extended.
Much credit is due to the Department of
Trade for enlarging its overseas publicity and
sponsoring trade missions. Likewise, to the States,
all praise for the activity they have shown in
sending delegations abroad to invite new industries.
With the exporters’ charter ship “Delos” back
from a successful trade tour of Asian ports, we
are to have now a Government-sponsored mission
to the Pacific coast of the United States and Canada,
to seek markets and to provide information
for investors.
This is the kind of visioned enterprise that
translates Faith into action; and it will be highly
commended by every thinking Australian.
One accompanying thought to it all:
The gains we make from investment and
increased trade are not to be counted in mere
capital: they embrace the human capacity and
technical skills that these bring with them.
And that in itself is an immeasurable advantage
to a young country in which the dedication of
personal lives is an even richer investment than
the welcome employment of funds.
H. Hastings Deening


Are the, Banking’ Bills Safe?
It is accepted that when the new
Federal Parliament meets next week
one of its first chores will be to pass
the collection of banking bills that
were rejected by the Senate last year.
At least one Government member,
R. C. Wheeler, Liberal M.H.R. for
Mitchell, feels there are very strong
reasons why the bills should not be
passed in their present form —and he is
probably supported in this by other
Government backbenchers. Wheeler’s
objection springs from a fear that the
proposed bills don’t provide adequate
safeguards against the possibility of a
future Labor Government making bank-
ing a Government monopoly. This is
precisely the ground on which the
Government based its objection to the
1945 Banking Act.
More than any other single issue bank-
ing policy was responsible for the defeat
of the Chifley Government in 1949. The
.Bank Grab Act of 1947 had been declared
invalid by the High Court and the Privy
Council, and Labor tried valiantly to
convince itself that this ruled-out banking
as an election-issue, but neither the Oppo-
sition parties nor the electors took that
view. In his policy-speech Menzies said
that the Australian banking system was
vitally involved in the election, and that
if the two parties he represented were
returned to office they would, in addition
to repealing the- Bank Nationalisation
Act, amend the Constitution to make it
impossible for such Socialist legislation
to be passed in future without the
approval of the people by referendum.
He further undertook to repeal the 1945
Banking Act and to place the Common-
wealth Bank under “a small board of
directors.” Menzies gave as his reason
for this course:
Under the 1945 legislation the Common-
wealth Bank under one man —the governor
—is compelled to give effect to the policy
of the Treasurer of the day. We believe
that great financial decisions which, if they
are wrong, are wrong on so vast a scale as
to injure many thousands of people, ought
not to be made by one man without refer-
ence to or control by the National Parlia-
ment.
Bank Grab Act
'T'wo years before this, Labor Prime
Minister Chifley, piqued at a High
Court ruling against a clause of the 1945
Act which required all public authorities
to bank with the Commonwealth Bank,
had made a bald announcement that all
private banks were to be nationalised.
This had been quickly followed by a
nationalisation bill which the Labor
Government, with its clear majority in
both Houses, had no difficulty in getting
through all stages except legal challenge
in the courts.
When, despite the pleadings of Dr.
Evatt, first the High Court and then the
Privy Council declared against the
measure, Chifley professed to consider the
matter closed. The election was only a
few months off and public opinion had
been aroused to such a degree against
nationalisation and socialism that the
last thing the Labor party wanted was
to fight an election on bank-nationalisa-
tion. Chifley, Evatt, McKenna and other
top men in the party adopted this line
and even Arthur Calwell, was saying that
bank-nationalisation was a dead issue,
although two years earlier he had re-
joiced thus:—
Capitalism is collapsing . . . We are
fighting to push the private banks out for
good. We are engaged in the process of
plucking the fowl. No one will be able to
put the feathers back once we have pulled
them out.
By November, 1949, Calwell and most
of his colleagues were desperately want-
ing it to be a dead issue, but the half-
plucked fowl refused to lie down.
The majority of Labor M.P.S behaved
at that time as though bank-nationalisa-
tion had been just a wayward fancy which
had momentarily beguiled their minds,
but which had now been banished for-
ever from their thoughts. But there were
a few recalcitrants. E. J. Ward, for
example, who held:
Nationalisation of banking is fundamental
to the Labor party, and without it Labor
cannot exercise political power. Irrespec-
tive of what may be the decision of the
Privy Council, once Labor has spoken and
said the banks are to be nationalised, the
issue is beyond doubt. It is only a question
of when we shall be able to do it.
Ward’s colleagues shuddered at his in-
discretion, but only a few weeks before
the poll the East Sydney terror repeated
his piece with slight variations. He told
a King’s Cross audience that bank-
nationalisation must be kept alive be-
cause : —-
If there is to be real progress towards
implementing the policy of the Labor party,
it is inevitable that there must be a banking
system completely under the control of the
elected representatives of the people.
New Banking Bills
A lthough the Menzies-Fadden partner-
ship won the election it was not able
immediately to fulfil its promises as
Labor still controlled the Senate. Eighteen
months’ argument and a double-dissolu-
tion preceded the repeal of the Bank
Grab Act and the establisUment of a
Commonwealth Bank Board. Two years
later a further bill separated the trading
business of the Commonwealth Bank
from its central-bank functions and estab-
lished the Commonwealth Trading Bank.
The same bill altered the provisions re-
garding “special accounts” to make the
requirements of this section less onerous
to the trading banks and at the same
time brought the Commonwealth Trading
Bank into line with other banks in re-
gard to “special accounts.” Labor
strenuously opposed all these changes,
but at the same time some Government
backbenchers felt the bills did not go
far enough towards frustrating possible
future attempts to achieve nationalisation-
by-stealth.
The present batch of bills rejected
by Labor in the Senate in 1957 and
again last year with the aid of a general
muster of the sick and the halt —aims
at completing the separation of the Cen-
tral Bank from the rest of the Com-
monwealth Bank group. It provides for
the establishment of the Reserve Bank of
Australia, which will carry out the
functions of a central bank and will also
include the present Note Issue Depart-
ment and the Rural Credit Department.
The “special accounts” will be replaced
by a system of reserve deposits. The
remainder of the present Commonwealth
Bank group will be reorganised under
a Commonwealth Banking Corporation,
under which will be established the Com-
monwealth Trading Bank, the Common-
wealth Savings Bank and the Common-
wealth Development Bank three
separate legal entities, each under a
separate general-manager.
Where the Danger Lies
Tt is the Commonwealth Development
•*- Bank that seems to Wheeler the
potential menace. It is designed to assist
primary production and the establishment
of industrial undertakings which might
otherwise find it difficult to raise finance.
Very good, says Wheeler, but under the
powers vested in it, the Development
Bank could become a privileged com-
petitor of the trading banks, possessing
almost all their powers, but free of most
of the restraints imposed on them.
It could accept unlimited deposits, open
cheque-accounts, grant overdrafts. It will
not pay taxes, and, unlike other banks, will
not be liable to surrender a part of its
funds to the Central Bank as special
deposits. Just imagine what a wonderful
instrument this bank would b'e in the
hands of a Labor Government, bent on
making banking a Government monopoly!
Wheeler suggests that the bills should
be amended to preclude the Develop-
ment Bank from conducting general
banking business and to limit its power
to accept deposits from the public. He
further suggests that applicants for
Development Bank loans should be
allowed to apply through any branch of
any bank instead of being obliged to
lodge an application through Common-
wealth Bank premises.
When Sir Arthur Fadden introduced
the bills last year he said there was no
intention of the Development Bank in-
dulging in general trading or accepting
“much in the line of general deposits,”
but the present Government's intentions
do not bind a future Government’s
actions.
E. J. Ward, who is on record as saying
“once the Labor Movement decided as
a whole that the private banks would be
nationalised they would be. and nothing
could stop it,” is now making a bid for
the leadership of the Labor party. Does
anyone believe that a Government led by
Ward would hesitate to take advantage
of any loopholes left in the banking legis-
lation? It is the Government’s duty to
see that none are left.


start the day right!
■m
Ir 4^
Oj
C«6M2
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Return of the Urn
And so Australia once again
holds the Ashes, with its 10-
wicket win in the fourth Test
in Adelaide. (Australia, 476
and 0-36; England, 240 and
270.)
England had regained the
Ashes by one Test to nil in
England in 1953, and retained
them 3-1 in Australia in
1954-55 and 2-1 in England in
1956. The 1953 victory had
been England’s first winning of
the Ashes since the 1932-33
series.
There’s been a remarkable
reversal of roles in 1956 and
1958-59—England was well on
top at home against lan
Johnson’s side, with Australia
very much the underdog ; this
series, same descriptions apply
in reverse.
England’s team relied in
large measure on its 1956 side
—virtually the same bowlers,
practically the same batsmen
(though without such a good
one as the Rev. David Shep-
pard, who may have made a
big difference had he come to
Australia, as May wished).
Australia, too, has stuck to half
of the ’56 men —Benaud,
Harvey, Davidson, Mackay,
McDonald, Burke; but it has
blooded some younger men,
like O’Neill, Meckiff and
Rorke, all of whom have suc-
ceeded famously. Their new
’keeper, Grout, has done a
mighty job behind the sticks.
As in 1954-55 England was, to all
intern, a “two-man” batting side
—the same two, May and Cowdrey.
And Cowdrey was out of touch for
a time. Graveney batted well on
occasion. A team with so many
unreliable bats and such a long tail
can’t win unless backed by great
bowling and fielding. England's
bowlers were triers, though the
fast-men were not as fearsome as
anticipated, and at no time was
there any Licked, Locked and
Lakering done. England’s fielding
was, on the whole, well below Aus-
tralia’s standard..
Richie Benaud, more-or-less
thrust into skippering at the
last moment, did a capable job.
He would seem at this point
the logical man to lead Aus-
tralia's team to England in
1961. Though not so success-
ful with the bat, he bowled
successfully, and fielded as
brilliantly as ever. His
opposite-number, May, per-
haps has claim to being the
world’s greatest batsman still
playing.
Another point of interest in the
Test was whether Ray Lindwall
could surpass Clarrie Grimmett’s
record —for an Australian bowler—
of 216 Test-wickets. In the event,
and with every chance, he took
three wickets, to remain one short
of Grimmett’s tally. “The old fox,”
of course, played in some 20 fewer
Tests than has Lindwall, who is to
get another chance in the fifth Test,
starting this Friday in Melbourne.
Umpire Mclnnes. some of whose
decisions have been queried by the
Englishmen, was described by both
“Just ignore the polite and affectionate banter of the
Australian barrackers.”
sides after the ’54-55 series as the
"best umpire in the world.” But
umpires can lose form the same as
cricketers can, and Mclnnes has not
earned the same rating in this series.
However, all his doubtful decisions
have not by any means discrimin-
ated against the Englishmen. In the
second Test in Melbourne he gave
Simpson out l.b.w. for a duck when
the batsman had most likely hit the
ball first.
His giving McDonald the benefit
of the doubt in the run-out decision
in which Burke, as runner, was con-
cerned was due to bad positioning.
But it’s not by any means the first
controversial decision in a run-out
in a Test. In the fourth 1953 Test
in England, for instance, English
batsman Reg Simpson was given
not-out when all the Australians on
the field near by were satisfied he
n as run-out, and his somewhat pro-
longed innings could well have
helped England save that Test —for
it was time alone that stopped an
Australian victory.
Mackay, given out by Mclnnes in
the first Test in Brisbane for a snick
behind which, it is now generally
conceded, he did not touch, sport-
ingly “gave himself out” to a snick
behind in this Test when Mclnnes
hesitated. Yet the ump.’s doubts
were seemingly well justified, as
O’Neill, at the bowler’s end, said
he thought the ball had gone off
Mackay’s pads. “Slasher,” it will
be recalled, sportingly ran himself
out in answering a very bad call
from O'Neill in the Combined XL
v. M.C.C. match in Perth last
October.
One can’t help feeling that
May was overgenerous to
McDonald. A suspect starter
before the match began,
McDonald batted for a day
and a bit, rested for nearly
two days, and, in this very vital
game for England, was allowed
to resume then with the aid of
a runner. After which he was
barely on the field the whole
time England batted. Surely
the affair poses a question of
ethics—should a batsman of
top quality be chosen when it
appears that his participation
may be limited to batting?
That same question seemed,
towards the end of his career,
likely to arise in connection
with Denis Compton, with his
injured knee and consequent
slowness in the field (whether
he should be picked in a Test
when it was almost certain he
would not be able to field).
And Bradman, towards the end
of his playing years, once made
a Test double-century though
he had been unable to field for
some time beforehand.
Summing-up on the series,
Australia, it can be said, has
been the better team, and there
was no fluke in its victory.
At Flemington
When Ritmar set too hot a
pace for the smart field in the
five-furlongs w.-f.-a. Lightning
Stakes at Flemington last
Saturday it was the second
year in succession that a two-
year-old had won the event.
Prime requisite in the Light-
ning is ability to break a
minute for the five furlongs.
Any two-year-old that has
shown the speed to do that
with 8.7 —as Ritmar did at
Flemington on Oaks Day—
must be hard to beat in a race
in which it carries only 6.11
(the set weight for a two-
year-old filly in a w.-f.-a. event
run over six furlongs or less
in February).
Ritmar ran the Lightning in
59j, particularly good time on
a track which had absorbed
half-an-inch of rain overnight.
She showed sizzling speed
from barrier-rise, and with her
light weight was able to hold
off the brilliant finish of Sky-
line. She’s a Star Kingdom
filly from Magic Ring, who
traces back to the outstanding
New Zealand brood mare
Eulogy.
• • • •
Skyline’s run into second
place was impressive. Whether
his autumn target is the New-
market or the Doncaster, he
will be a hard colt to defeat.
It is possible that he will start
in the Futurity Stakes at Caul-
field on February 28. The
seven furlongs of that race
will suit him nicely.
For the first time since the
inauguration of the event five
years ago, the favorite did not
win this year’s w.-f.-a. Blarney
Stakes, run over 10 furlongs
at Flemington last Saturday.
All previous winners of the
race had been “in the red,”


and again this year favorite
Sir Blink was at odds-on. At
no stage did he give his sup-
porters any hope, and at the
finish was a weak third behind
But Beautiful and Vogel.
Undoubtedly But Beautiful
is exceptionally good. Her
record includes wins in the
One Thousand Guineas and
the Sandown Guineas, in both
of which she proved too good
for Wiggle. But Beautiful’s
programme will be confined
to set-weight events in Mel-
bourne before she goes to
Sydney for the A.J.C. St.
Leger and Adrian Knox
Stakes. She showed in her
Blarney Stakes win that she
can match strides with the best
of the colts. In races confined
to her own sex she should be
close to unbeatable.
It may not be wise to write-
off Sir Blink. He showed in
the spring that he needs three
or four runs to wind him up
properly, and it is possible
that his hard race in the C. F.
Orr Stakes a fortnight ago took
a lot out of him. If he goes
to Sydney for the Cup it will
mean that his owners, C. R.
Finch and Mrs. W. M. Kellett,
are satisfied he will run a good
race.
First “leg” of a winning
double for Mentone trainer
Tony Lopes—he prepares But
Beautiful—was the chestnut
filly Double Image’s courage-
ous win in the 10-furlongs Fen-
tona Handicap. Placed at her
previous two starts, with some
bad luck in both of them, she
was in the leading bunch
throughout the Fentona, and
stuck on remarkably well when
it looked certain that favorite
High Peal would run past her
over the last half-furlong.
Double Image gets her
courage from her sire, Carbon
Copy. Her dam, Lenity—one
recalls her winning a race at
Flemington by 10 lengths—
was smart but weak, whereas
Double Image will win races
over a distance. The filly gave
her owner, Mrs. P. E. Ryan,
who races a big team of horses,
her first Flemington success.
Not long ago shoe-factory
proprietor “Ossie” Porter was
one of Melbourne’s leading
owners, and most fearless of
punters. These days he retains
only a mild interest in racing,
and the only horse he owns is
Royal Somme, who careered
away with the Brookside Han-
dicap at Flemington on Satur-
day. The Brookside field
included a number of horses
w'ith Australian Cup hopes, but
as Royal Somme, who cannot
be rated better than a moder-
ate, won so easily, those hopes
are slender enough.
There was such keen com-
petition from breeders all over
the world for the brilliant race-
horse Landau —formerly raced
by Queen Elizabeth —that
V.R.C. vice-chairman E. A.
Underwood had to pay
£A.26,250 to obtain the
horse for the Australian
bloodstock industry. This is
the first year the progeny
of Landau (who won six
races in England, and whose
bloodlines are faultless —he is
by Derby winner Dante, a son
of the unbeaten Nearco) have
raced It was not until a fort-
night ago, when My Chariot
won in Queensland, that Lan-
dau was represented by his first
winner. At Flemington on
Saturday his son Moolga—out
of Jhelum, a former smart gal-
loper—made the score two,
when he raced away with the
six-furlongs Criterion Handi-
cap. Moolga has raced only
three times, and his odds on
Saturday 12 to 1 were
surprisingly generous, consider-
ing the colt had finished second
to the promising Unquenchable
at his previous start. It is this
writer’s guess that both these
youngsters Unquenchable
and Moolga—will develop into
top-class performers.
It is hard to say how good
the five-year-old Solvive entire
Solvarge would be if he were
not troubled by “proppy”
feet. Mentone trainer Ray
Chapman has done a wonder-
ful job with Solvarge, and
under his care the horse
has won three times from
six starts, including his
success in the seven-furlongs
Paddock Handicap at Flem-
ington last Saturday. Present
intentions are to start Solvarge
in the Futurity later this
month. That is a better-class
race than anything Solvarge
has won so far, but if he goes
to the post sound he will not
be the worst chance in it.
There are not many horses
in Melbourne bigger than the
three-year-old gelding Jet Gun,
who’s over 17 hands. Horses
as big as that are only rarely
of much account, but Jet Gun
is an exception. From his nine
races, the Flying Missel geld-
ing has won five times. It
seems that speed is his game,
though his sire was a good
stayer in the United States.
Sydney Horses
There was what looked like
a considerable form-reversal
when, at Canterbury Park last
Saturday, the even - money
0 favorite Prince Kerdieil was
defeated easily by the second-
elect, New Spec, who finished
last to Huntly in the A.J.C.
Challenge Stakes a fortnight
earlier. In the Challenge, how-
ever, New Spec had mixed-it
with another speedster, Gold
Stakes, and both had missed a
place. A light handicap, plus an
apprentice’s allowance, helped
New Spec, who had not won a
race since he landed the Car-
nington Stakes at Randwick in
December, 1957.
- • • •
A.J.C. Breeders’ Plate winner
Front Cover and Rum Issue
had both started once before
clashing in the Two-year-old
Handicap at Canterbury, Rum
Issue having won an A.J.C.
Maiden , Two-year-old last
month. At Canterbury Rum
Issue, giving pacemaker Front
Cover a start, had to be hard-
ridden to down that gelding by
a short half-head. Front Cover
defeated the brilliant Fine and
Dandy (his stablemate) in the
Breeders’ Plate, and in view of
the latter’s subsequent top per-
formance Rum Issue’s win
seemed most impressive. Front
Cover, however, will be all the
better for the run ; he hadn’t
started since early October.
King’s Own (imp.)—for-
merly known as Mountain
King—has not, as a sire, had
many starters, but speedy
three-year-old filly Han A
Fore gave him a good adver-
tisement when she cleared-out
with the Canterbury First Ash-
bury Stakes, following a second
at the same track last month
to Felidoma. Han A Fore is
trained at Randwick by Pat
Murray for P. S. Fowler, and
the time for the six furlongs,
1.12.6, was only slightly
worse than New Spec’s in the
Flying. Fine and Fair, dam
of Han A Fore, is by Wayside
Inn (imp.) from Fine and Rare
by The Buzzard (imp.).
Winner of several country
races, some with big weights,
Gay Coin looked a safe bet
lor the Second Ashbury Stakes
at Canterbury after his second
to Huntly in the A.J.C. Chal-
lenge Stakes, and odds-on sup-
porters had nothing to worry
about, as the Newtown
Wonder speedster led all the
' way. Merry Inn made a dash
at him in the straight, but the
hot favorite was much too
good. It wasn’t much of a
field.
The Campsie Stakes at
Canterbury (a Graduation
event run over 11 furlongs
65yds.) had only seven accep-
tors (the race gets poor sup-
port). It was won by Grove
Hall, raced by Dr. E. G.
Carroll, who has long sup-
ported racing as .\n owner,
though he seldom rA;es more
than one or two horses. Grove
Hall won narrowly from
Woodcel, who as a yearling
cost 2900gn5., but has yet to
score a win.
Since joining E. D. Lawson’s
Randwick stable the grey
Boorala has won three in a
row, latest being in the Can-
terbury Handicap, a perforn>
ance which indicated he would
be a Doncaster show with 7.7,
or 31b. less than he won with
in close to record time for the
Canterbury 9A furlongs.
Boorala ran 1.58.9 against Fire
Flash’s 1.58.7 made last
November. Akatarawa had a
fair lead, and was still in front
nearing the winning-post, but
the lighter-weighted Boorala
gradually got the upper hand
after a hard ride by G. Pod-
more, who also won the
Campsie Stakes on Grove
Hall.
A heavy rainstorm delayed
the running of the Canterbury
Park Welter, and also caused
abandonment of the final
event. In the Welter Hurry
By, who had won the Rand-
wick Highweight on Anni-
versary Day, proved himself
a genuine mudlark, winning by
eight lengths and fairly revel-
ling in the rain-sodden going.
Conca D-Or, easy winner of
the Q.T.C.’s First Maiden Two-
year-old at odds-on last
Saturday, was reared at the
Oakleigh Stud, Kerribee
(N.S.W.), and is by Bold Buc-
caneer (imp.) from Speculate
by Valiant Chief from Canopy
by Marabou. The Second
Maiden Two-year-old was won
by owner-trainer A. Strong’s
Friar’s Cap, who was bred by
Randwick trainer Ted
McMenamin when he had the
Glencroft Stud at Wodonga
(Vic.). Friar’s Cap is by Maka-
pure (imp.) from Felsume by
Felcrag (imp.). McMenamin
won with Magic Symbol, a
Makapura filly, at Canterbury
Park last week.
The first all-tote midweek
Canterbury Park fixture must
have been disappointing to the
S.T.C. The attendance was
only 11,690, and the tote-
holding also was below expec-
tations. The meeting lacked


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
Tbe Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to ‘"The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
the usual keyed-up race-day
atmosphere which prevails
when bookmakers operate.
Another all-tote meeting will
be held today (Wednesday),
when a better idea of the
public’s reaction should be
gained. There'll be no free
tickets, but admission to the
Leger has been cut to 25.,
which brings it into line with
the Randwick Flat charge ; the
paddock-fee, reduced to 10s.
for the first all-tote meeting,
will stand at that.
Before winning the Maiden
Handicap (94 furlongs) at the
Canterbury Park midweek “all-
tote” meeting, Placer hadn't
shown much in the way of
form, apart from a third to
lturbi in a Randwick Maiden
for three-year-olds. On the tote
at Canterbury the filly paid a
little less than 3 to 1 ; she was
the best backed outside G.
Moore’s mount, Pardorus, who
came from the rear of the field
for second money. Placer is by
Bois De Rose (imp.) from
Canopy by Marabou. Canopy
wasn’t raced, but she has
thrown four winners. Former
grand gallopers David and
Reading appear in Placer’s
bloodlines.
Vitesse, who was the out-
sider of the field of six in a
Two-year-old Maiden at
Wyong, and who won the
sprint in promising style, is
a daughter of Snowstream, not
many of whose progeny have
been tried —they might well do
better with a bit of age on
their side. Snowstream won the
A.J.C. Summer Cup, City
Tattersall’s Gold Cup, ST.C.
Christmas Cup and the w.-f.-a.
Mackinnon Stakes. Great
Betty, dam of Vitesse, is by
Great Star (imp.) from Bettine
by Blankney II (imp.).
“Meg”: Griffelt, a former
Queensland racehorse, has
been part of the Oxley
mounted-police unit for some
years, but on Australia Day
he had his last job as a police
mount before being retired.
Recently the police asked for
a home for Griffelt. Inside a
day they had received 200
offers. He is to be the
clerk-of-the-course’s horse at
the Beaudesert (Q.) racecourse.
“P.0.M.C.”: It is surpris-
ing but not uncommon that the
progeny of sprinters (and
sprinters themselves) make
handy hurdlers (B. 21/l/’59).
In fact, old-time trainers
averred that sprinters made the
best hurdlers ; expounding the
theory that they’re surer-footed
or more nimble than stayers
and that the slower-run hurdle-
races permit schooled sprinters
to develop stamina of sorts
while preserving some of their
dash on the flat. During the
1920’5, when hurdle-racing
really boomed, most of the
stars over battens were ex-
sprinters.
* * *
Other Sports
Weekend dragnet: Five world
swimming-records were set in the
jNorth Sydney pool on Saturday
night—John Konrads (440yds. and
400-metres), John Devitt (110yds.)
and American lass Sylvia Ruuska
(220yds. and 200-metres butterfly).
Konrads and Devitt broke their own
times; the previous women’s
220yds. butterfly record had been
sei only the Saturday before by
Sydney girl Beverley Bainbridge.
lisa Konrads defeated American
girl Chris Von Saltza in the 220yds.
freestyle... .Gonzales beat Sedg-
man in four sets in the singles final
of the professional tennis in Sydney,
in a tourney in which all of
Kramer’s top boys competed....
American middleweight Jimmy
Martinez, after being narrowly
beaten by Clive Stewart in Sydney,
fairly comfortably outpointed Zulu
Joe N’Gidi in Melbourne Merv
Lincoln won the Victorian mile
title in 4min. 2.6 sec.
* * *
“K.R.”. Last Saturday Vic-
torian batsman Keith Kendall,
in brilliant but somewhat
risky fashion, hit 82 out of
101 runs scored in the 85min.
he was there. Rarely in first-
class cricket, particularly when
his partner is a recognised
batsman, does one man so
dominate run-getting. Seldom
did even Bradman or McCabe
so outdistance his partners.
Kendall has been in and out
of Victoria’s Shield-team in
recent years ; this is his first
Shield game this season, and
he only got in then when Mc-
Donald withdrew.
“C.R.H.”: Nominate Tibby
Cotter as the fastest bowler
ever, with Ernest Jones and
the Englishman Kortright as
probably next-fastest. Tibby
at least smashed more stumps
than any other express trundler
1 know. Cotter and Jones
were both also footballers and
very powerful fellows. I have
seen Tibby, a Rugby player,
kick goals from halfway
against a strong wind.
“Regel”: Phil Mead (B.
7/1/’59), on his second tour of
Australia 17 years after his
first, was accosted by an
official in Adelaide with, “I
remember your father when he
was here.”
* • • •
“Pelham”: In a grade-match
in Sydney one of Victor
Trumper’s opening partners—
can’t remember his name —
trotted down the wicket to give
Vic. “the oil” —that the bowler
was throwing the ball. “Sssh,”
said Vic. “Not another word
about it. I like playing against
throwers.” Forthwith Trumper
proceeded to hit the alleged
thrower for five sixers and a
four in the one six-ball over.
Actually I can’t see how a
thrower can gain the swerve
and breaks that the legitimate
bowler obtains.
* * *
An N.S.W. tennis-team is
at present on a month’s tour of
N.Z. It consists of four
promising juniors (Mulligan,
who is in Australia’s team this
year, Hewitt, Pares and Stolle)
and four girls (Australian
singles champion Mrs. Mary
Reitano, Jan Lehane, Betty
Holstein and Noelene Turner).
They’re managed by cartoonist
Jim Russell, who’s a vice-
president of the N.S.W.L.T.A.
* * *
“Dickon”: S.A. football-
league clubs are swinging away
from the V.F.L. idea of non-
playing coaches. Four have
appointed playing coaches for
next season, with West
Adelaide and Norwood the
only clubs to have a non-
playing coach. Norwood,
after some shilly-shallying by
the appointee, has vitriolic pep-
talker Alan Killigrew, who’s
done a good job at St. Kilda
in the last year or two. “Killer,”
it seems, had not been alto-
gether happy with the Saints.
* *
“Lyle”: In recent years
squash - courts have been
spreading in Sydney’s suburbia
—and now more and more of
them are being added. Former
Rugby Union international
“Bill” McLaughlin opened a
court at Burwood a couple of
years ago, and that suburb is
shortly to have another squash-
centre with 17 courts. It will
provide 15 double squash-
courts and two single squash-
courts. In nearby Concord
the council has decided to assist
a local businessman to buy
land suitable for erecting a
£15,000 squash-centre provid-
ing for four squash-courts and
clubrooms. Residents of the
Bankstown area will have a
court that Rugby League stars
Ken Kearney and Ken
Charlton are establishing at
Bel mo re.
* * *
“Ailsey”: Leaving behind all
his material and sporting in-
terests is Terry Curley, of
Newcastle (N.S.W.), Australian
Rugby Union Test fullback,
who has entered the Marist
Brothers’ novitiate at Mitta-
gong (N.S.W.) to become a
Brother. Curley represented
Australia for the first time
against the N.Z. All Blacks in
1957, playing in all three Tests,
then went overseas with the
1957-58 Wallabies. In the U.K.
Curley played in 34 of the 41
tour games—a record for an
Australian player. Overseas
critics rated him one of the
best fullbacks in the world.
Had he preferred it, Curley,
still only 20, probably had
another 10 years of inter-
national football before him.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
TWENTY YEARS OF FRANCO
Tearing a short, hard look at
-*■ what General Francisco
Franco has achieved in 20
years as dictator of Spain,
Mildred Adams, for many
years a student of Spanish
politics, writing in the Ameri-
can quarterly “Foreign
Affairs,” notes that “in physi-
cal terms a great deal has
been accomplished, particu-
larly since 1951.”
Madrid, Adams says, has
doubled in size since 1939 ; it
is a clean, handsome city, “and
in the centre, at least, it looks
adequately dressed and com-
fortably fed.” There has been
a building boom in apartment
houses, Government offices and
factories:
“In terms of morale the
changes are harder to measure.
There is perhaps less arguing
than a few years ago about
the General or his policies, less
attempt to explain what he is
trying to do ; cautious discus-
sion has been replaced by a
wry shrugging of the shoul-
ders, as in the face of a natural
phenomenon that must run its
course. This does not mean
that the people are content, but
when were Spaniards ever satis-
fied? Political protests are
made, and not only by the
argumentative young. Politi-
cal arrests are said to continue.
But this is told by word-of-
mouth —the newspaper-reader
learns no such heresies. Mean-
while, a generation that never
knew the Civil War is growing
up and old bitternesses are
receding. The net effect is a
curious passivity ; if a volcano
underlies it, the smoke shows
only in thin spurts.
“The socio-political struc-
ture is not so different from
what it was. The Army seems
to be gaining in its struggle for
power with the Falange and
getting back its old strength.
The Church, outwardly power-
ful, suffers internal divisions,
distrusts the new civilian order
of ‘Opus Dei,’ which has at
least three members in the
Cortes, of whom two are
Franco’s close advisers. The
large land-owners continue in
possession of their hectares, the
‘frivolous’ nobility ‘have
learned nothing these 20
years.’ Labor is held in check
by complex devices meant to
placate and control. The new
element is an active middle-
class.”
This middle-class is wealthier
than the one it has replaced,
and controls “a degree of
industrial power which did not
exist in Spain before the Civil
War.”
But the queries about the
regime “are no longer whether
the Caudillo has done well or
ill with his self-appointed
stewardship, but what kind of
a Spain he has fashioned and
what type of role it can play
in the second half of the 20t'n
N.Y. “Herald Tribune."
“ANY TIME YOU WANT TO GO ON AN EXPLORING
TRIP !"
century”; and “while the
answers are being worked out
Spain is embarking on an
activity in international rela-
tions such as she has not had
since she lost her empire. Casti-
gated in 1946 by the United
Nations as a country ‘poten-
tially dangerous for peace,’ she
has now been accepted as a
member of the United Nations,
the World Bank, the Monetary
Fund and other international
organisms. (Within Spain the
reproof of 1946 is said to have
united Spaniards behind
Franco, much the way a family
divided within itself closes
ranks against outside attack,
and to have kept him in power
at a moment when he was
tottering.) These new associa-
tions will require the Govern-
ment to submit to a new degree
of reality in terms of book-
keeping and criticism. At the
same time Franco will certainly
try to exert influence in
Mediterranean questions, in
North African affairs, in
Spanish-American matters —
and all the while managing a
young and still potentially
fractious governing mechanism
at home.”
After examining the present
structure of the Spanish State,
Mildred Adams goes on:
“It has been the fashion in
both Spain and the United
States to play-down the import-
ance of American aid —in
Spain for reasons of national
pride ; in the United States out
of political, diplomatic and
military considerations. But
the facts speak for themselves.
The difference between the
Spain of 1951 and the Spain
of 1958 is not to be explained
away by a couple of good har-
vests, a year of abundant rain-
fall or an extra turn of the
dictator’s screw. Undoubtedly
the expansion in apartment-
construction, the new factories,
the degree of improvement in
roads and even in railroads is
not to be credited wholly to
American aid. But it is equally
clear that this could never have
been* accomplished without
help from outside, and the help
they had was almost a billion
American dollars appearing in
one form or another within the
country.
“The first loan went to Spain
in 1951—a wheat loan of
$62,500,000. It was followed
by a series of smaller loans in
1952 and 1953, and then, as the
big cash for American base-
construction began flowing, by
aid and loans of various kinds.
By now, $894,800,000 of public
money has been spent in
Spain ; by fiscal 1959 the figure
will top a billion; and there is
no indication that that is all.
Nor does this include private
loans. In a country with an
annual income which runs
around $6 billion (an average
figure for 1952-54, which infla-
tion has increased), an average
input of an extra $100,000,000
is by no means inconsiderable.
“Nor is the argument sound
that because part of that
income arrived in the form of
wheat or cotton or earth-
moving machinery or as a
generative force for counter-
part funds, it should not be
added in. The 1957 report of
the Banco Nacional, describing
the impact of American aid and
recognising that the bases were
finished and that less would
henceforth be spent, observed
hopefully that by using the
earth-moving machinery which
was used for the bases, a rela-
tively small expenditure of
pesetas would make possible
agricultural programmes which
would very quickly bring about
an increase in the food-supply.
The question that nobody dares
to raise is what will happen to
Spain when and if American
aid should cease.
“The chances would seem to
be good that if Franco has the
strength, the courage and the
luck to manage the eventual
transfer of power from his own
hands to those of his successor
in such a fashion as to avoid
crippling violence, something
of this energy and organisation
will carry over. The Law of
Succession is, unhappily, a
weak bridge. In order not to
give away power or make him-
self too tempting for assassina-
tion, Franco has carefully
arranged that the agreed mon-
archy is to be headed by some-
one of royal blood or another


if mjmo.
r.t-
-■ :
y i X< i < i ': : >W*
r
¥3?<?w
iv
4
Holden owners say . . .
This is the greatest
buy of them all
LET'S PROVE IT TO YOU!
When the first Holden was introduced it was the first car ever designed
especially for you the Australian motorist. And model by model,
year by year, Holden has become an even greater car. Mr. P. Russell
of 12 Waterdale Road, Ivanhoe, reports “Having previously driven all
earlier models to my complete satisfaction, 1 consider that the latest
Holden is superior in every respect . .
Greater value than ever. Holden
now gives you more room, more
comfort, more luggage space, more
luxury, more power, more hand-
ling ease. And even though sales
tax has been increased by over
£6O, you can now buy a new
Holden Standard Sedan for less
than £lO more than you could six
years ago. Clearly, Holden value
is now the greatest it’s ever been.
Let’s prove it to you. Drive the
beautiful new Holden and prove
for yourself that it’s the greatest
buy of them all. And ask about
the convenient GMAC hire pur-
chase plan that is available to
help you.
AlO3
&, HOLDEN
AUSTRALIA'S OWN CAR AND STATION SEDAN
Prices from £BB5 plus tax
“AIR CHIEF” IS THE APPROVED GMH CAR RADIO
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY . MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia.
Spaniard at least 30 years old
if the Council of the Realm so
chooses. But the Council of
the Realm will hardly be sitting
in a vacuum, and while Spanish
history is full of poor rulers
who followed powerful ones,
the activity of the new middle-
class may prevent a retreat to
old despairs.
“As for the Caudillo, he has
undoubtedly grown in stature
since American aid began pour-
ing in. Where the initiative
first came from, whether it was
he who attracted the aid, or
the Americans who persuaded
him that permission to build
bases was a quid pro quo
worth accepting, is not quite
clear, but, like the late Huey
Long, if he did not plan all
this, he certainly knew a break
when he saw one. Meanwhile
he has, in Spanish terms, been
riding a wave of the future
that is carrying the country into
the heady swirl of international
conferences. His foreign poli-
cies have thus far had a mixed
success, but for the time being,
at least, he has put isolation
behind him, and behind Spain.
The result may astonish both.”
The Madrid correspondent
of London “Economist,” how-
ever, while allowing that “most
Spaniards today do live better
than they did five, ten and
fifteen years ago,” sees in
Spain’s economy “serious
symptoms of impending crisis”:
“The cost-of-living has
soared 40 per cent, in two
years, thus wiping out the
benefits of the large wage-
increase decreed by the Gov-
ernment in the autumn of
1956. Too-rapid industrial
expansion in recent years has
eaten away the nation’s gold
reserves from some $220
million in 1955 to $57 million
now —and these $57 million
are the ‘untouchable’ minimum
required as cover for the
national currency. Foreign-
exchange reserves are virtually
exhausted, partly because of
the growing need for industrial
raw materials to keep the
country’s expanding economy
going. A year ago the total
trade-deficit stood at a record
$387 million compared to
$l7O million two years earlier,
and the figure for 1958
promises to be about the same.
(True, American economic aid
covers about half of the deficit,
but what remains is too much
to shrug-off with a wish and a
hope.) Foreign credits and
necessary imports are becom-
ing harder to obtain.
“Lack of foreign exchange,
for instance, is forcing the
Government to cut imports of
petroleum products by some-
thing like 20 per cent. The
gravity of the measure is clear:
trucks, tractors and fishing-
boats stand to feel the pinch,
and the economy as a whole
will be affected unless some-
body (the United States?)
comes to the rescue. Petrol-
rationing may have to be im-
posed (but foreign tourists
would be spared this incon-
venience).
“Another sombre develop-
ment concerns Catalonia’s
textile industry, which has been
caught-up in a severe recession.
The average Spaniard has
begun to cut expenses, starting
with clothing. In October
textile sales were 25 per cent.
below what they were the
previous year, and advance
orders had dropped by 59 per
cent. If the mills are forced to
reduce output, 300,000 workers
will be affected. Labor legis-
lation ensures that the work-
ing man is paid for workless
days, but there is always the
risk that induced idleness will
disturb social stability.”
Altrincham Again
"IP dinburgh “Scotsman,” aim-
ing a blow or two at Lord
Altrincham’s neck, which has
again been stuck out with
proposals for reform of the
Queen’s role in relation to the
Commonwealth:
“His Constitutional theory
is that the Queen as head of the
Commonwealth is not bound
to take the advice of local
Prime Ministers. She must
fearlessly proclaim the prin-
ciples of the Commonwealth,


QUEENSLAND
INSURANCE
Co. Ltd.
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE &
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies
throughout the World.
as Lord Altrincham interprets
them, and if this brings her into
conflict with national Govern-
ments, then she must just sacri-
fice the national Governments.
This is how to finish the Com-
monwealth.
“Not content with the dis-
placement of the awkward
word ‘Empire’ by ‘Common-
wealth,’ Lord Altrincham
wishes to abandon the word
‘British.’ Apparently there
must be no historical trade-
marks. The inconvenient
historical fact that the Com-
monwealth was of British origin
must be carefully concealed
and the new revelation —vouch-
safed to Lord Altrincham—
that Gandhi is the patron-saint
of the Commonwealth —propa-
gated.
“There is certainly something
progressive about Lord Altrin-
cham’s ideas. Not satisfied
with demanding that the Queen
should change her official staff,
he has progressed to laying
down the law about how her
family should conduct them-
selves. The general idea is
that the Queen must live on a
Commonwealth scale. Instead
of being rooted in the United
Kingdom, she must be at home
everywhere. In spite of the
divinity that is said to hedge
a king, the practice of omni-
presence, in other than a
symbolic way, as the Queen
is present in the courts of
law, is a little difficult for
mortals. At best it seems to
be synonymous with home-
lessness.
“But that is not all. As he
contemplates the wide horizons
of life on a Commonwealth
scale, Lord Altrincham fore-
sees the possibility that the
Royal children will have the
opportunity of making mixed
marriages. Perhaps the pro-
gression of his ideas will lead
him eventually to the conclu-
sion that such marriages are a
matter of duty. There is no
knowing how far his impertin-
ence will go.”
London “Observer,” on the
other hand, while seeing that
there are “difficulties” in Lord
Altrincham’s notions, comments
that “the idea of the Court
reflecting the actual composi-
tion of the Commonwealth a
bit better is sound enough: and
so is that of some tactfully
organised residence outside
these islands. If the Common-
wealth is neither a State nor a
set of monarchies or demo-
cracies, but, rather, a kind of
international society with some
vague cultural and political
affinities, it would be helpful
if the Queen made the most
of her chances to symbolise
London “Daily Mail.”
THE ’59 LINE.
this society by reflecting its
variety in the people she
appoints to make up her Court.
If Prince Charles develops a
slight Australian accent, he
may owe this valuable asset
partly to that unstoppable
romantic, Lord Altrincham.”
Their Man in Havana
Come U.K. editorial thoughts
on the supply of British
arms last year to the now-
overthrown Batista Govern-
ment of Cuba:
“Manchester G u a r d i a n’:
“When Mr. Graham Greene
published his latest ‘entertain-
ment’ he could not have
suspected that the hero, the
vacuum-cleaner salesman who
made-up secret Intelligence
reports, was still at work. But
from whom except Mr. Wor-
mold could the Foreign Office
have got the information that
has landed if in its latest
muddle? Mr. Greene was
notably restrained in his
letters to the ‘Times’ in the past
few days. ‘Any visitor to Cuba,’
he wrote, ‘could have given her
Majesty’s Government more
information than was
apparently supplied by our
official representatives’; he
might have added an ‘I told
you so’ that would also have
advertised his book.”
• • • •
The same: “It is no use blam-
ing the British Ambassador
in Havana ; he was not respon-
sible for our discomfiture in
Iraq last July, nor for our
persistent misinterpretation of
trends in the Middle East.
The disorder goes deeper; it
seems to be built into the whole
structure of the Foreign Office.
It cannot be that our repre-
sentatives abroad meet too few
people ; the trouble is that they
meet the wrong ones. They
would often do better to meet
none at all, but to sit at home
reading the newspapers. Mr.
Alistair Cooke was not particu-
larly near the Eastern Province
of Cuba, but readers of his
dispatches from New York will
have been much better in-
formed than Mr. Selwyn
Lloyd and Commander Noble.
They at least will have known
that there was a war on.
“Secondly, are the commer-
cial profits to be made by
supplying arms to Governments
like ex-President Batista’s so
enormous as to outweigh the
political losses (not to speak of
the morality of such deals)?
We have now earned dislike
not merely from the supporters
of Dr. Castro but among men
and women all over Central
and South America who are
hoping for better Governments.
How many other dictators are
we supplying, and what is their
estimated duration of office?
We had better not go to the
Foreign Office for an answer.”
* * ♦
“Yorkshire Post”: “Were the
Foreign Office correctly
informed about the situation in
Cuba before President Batista
fled, and were they justified in
permitting the export of arms?
On the evidence we think that
they were. The supply of arms
to any country with a revolu-
tionary history is always
attended with doubts and diffi-
culties, but they were no
greater in this case than in
others. It was reported in
October last that the Batista
regime was in complete control
of Cuba except for a small
mountainous area in the east.
The Opposition groups were
disunited and Dr. Castro him-
self appeared unlikely then to
win wide popular support. It
is true that he was drilling his
guerrillas in the mountains, but
in some areas of the world the
drilling of guerrillas in moun-
tains is a well-established
custom, and it does not always
end in victory for the guerrillas.
“It is clear that the situation
changed rapidly in November
and the British attitude
changed with it. On November
19, in the House of Commons,
the Foreign Secretary, Mr.


KUCHING'S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Selwyn Lloyd, referred to the
earlier sale of arms, and added
that the situation in Cuba had
changed and that any future
requests for arms for Dr.
Batista would have to be
examined in the light of cir-
cumstances. After November
19 the agents of Dr. Batista
made a further request for
arms from Britain, but this was
refused even before it reached
the stage of negotiations. Our
man in Havana had reported ;
the British Government,
promptly and correctly, had
acted on his advice.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph ” :
“Formal recognition of the
new Cuban Government is not
in itself an automatic assurance
of friendly relations. We cer-
tainly hope that they will
follow; but, though that de-
pends on the Cubans, we un-
happily find ourselves in the
position of having to begin by
trying to explain away what
many of them hold to be an
act of hostility. Dr. Castro
himself acknowledges that the
British aircraft supplied to the
former Government were never
actually used against his
forces, and he is not sure that
any of the tanks were in action.
But the deliveries were
vigorously publicised among
the rebels and bitterly resented.
“It is manifest today that it
was a mistake for the British
Government to have sanctioned
these deliveries. Although not
improper, in the formal sense
that the arms were being
supplied to the then legal and
recognised Government of
Cuba, the transaction should
have been refused on more
important grounds. In the first
place, we should never have
put ourselves in the position
of armorer to a dictator like
Batista, whose regime was
widely resented, not only in
Cuba but throughout Latin
America. This, it seems, was
one of the considerations that
influenced the United States in
discontinuing military supplies
to him as long ago as last
April. From the moral stand-
point, we should have done
the same.
“Secondly, on the level of
pure expediency, this seems to
have been a case of knowledge
lagging behind action. There
is nothing remiss in principle in
supplying arms to an estab-
lished Government, but in a
Parliamentary reply on Nov.
19 the Foreign Secretary was
clearly doubtful about what
was happening in Cuba. And
yet only a few days earlier a
British shipment had been
dispatched. For the British
Government to have cancelled
an already approved contract
at this point would, it is true,
have looked like taking sides
against Batista and yet he
might yet have won. But there
would have been no need for
such an awkward decision if
we had declined to supply him
in the first place.”
U.K. Party Battle
Coinciding with the re-
assembly of the British
Parliament last month, public-
opinion polls indicating that
London “News-Chronicle."
NECK AND NECK.
the Government had lost its
formerly clear lead over Labor
in public esteem caused “Man-
chester Guardian” to ask what
lay “behind the reversal of the
Government’s good fortune
and what effect it is likely to
have on the Prime Minister's
calculations about the best
date on which to call a general
election”:
“The most significant clue
on the first point is that what
the polls reveal is a Conserva-
tive recession and not a Labor
recovery : most of the Tory
deserters have gone to join the
other ‘don’t knows,’ who now
comprise almost a fifth of the
total polled. This means that
Labor’s pamphleteering has not
yet borne much fruit (though
Mr. Gaitskell personally is
shown to be making a more
positive impact). The answer
which the pollsters themselves
give is that people are at last
beginning to be swayed by the
fear of unemployment. A
separate poll published in the
“Daily Mail” shows that this
alarm is not confined to those
who are directly affected either
by the loss of jobs or by the
sacrifice of overtime earnings ;
a sizeable fraction of the elec-
torate is now worried about
the immediate economic pros-
pects, and confidence in the
Government has accordingly
begun to suffer.
“This is not a particularly
novel or surprising conclusion ;
it is what many political com-
mentators have been saying
for some time was likely to
happen. It is also what the
Government itself has been
expecting—hence the intensi-
fied measures which are now
to be taken to lure new indus-
tries into the depressed areas.
The extent to which public
opinion has already been
moved by this issue may sur-
prise some politicians, but it
has always been assumed that
Mr. Macmillan would not risk
an election until the employ-
ment figures showed some defi-
nite signs of improvement.
How soon that will be is still
very much a matter of guess-
work. On the one hand, the
economic recession now pro-
mises to be over more quickly
than was thought possible a
few months ago. On the other,
there are some warning indica-
tions that jobs may not expand
as rapidly as production does
in the first phase of the re-
covery.
“This is one reason why Mr.
Macmillan may find that May
is too early a date for an elec-
tion. But there is nothing in
it yet that can be said to be
conclusive. The Prime Minister
may be inclined to give more
weight to the by-elections due
next month [February] than to
the opinion-polls (especially
as there are now signs that
opinion is no longer moving
uniformly throughout the
country). The Government is
obviously banking on the
Budget as a trump card; it
might decide to bring it for-
ward by a month, which in
the present context of industrial
uncertainty would be economi-
cally respectable, besides clear-
ing the decks for an early elec-
tion. And certainly, from the
national point of view, May
would be preferable to the
autumn if there is any risk
that a late election might
coincide with a period of
weakness for sterling.”
Dr. Verwoerd, Premier of
South Africa: “Communism
has one aim in Africa —to
make the black man resent the
presence of the white man.
South Africa is the one reliable
friend the Western world has.
Our friendship must remain
even in spite of misunderstand-
ings. If we are left in the lurch
for friendship in the present
cold-war, and the whites lose-
out in this country, then even
this bastion is lost to the
Western world.”
Mighty Little Agnew
A “Times” article on
“National Habits of
Drinking” having attributed to
N.S.W. the lead in extending
hotel-hours to 10 p.m., Peter
Hawker, of Gautby Rectory,
Lincoln, came out fighting in
defence of Westralia:
“On the Kalgoorlie gold-
fields the pubs have not closed
till 11 p.m. on weekdays since
they were built. On Sunday
there are certain adjustments of
time.
“The Australian average of
24 gallons a head annually is,
of course, often exceeded. In
my former parish, the small
mining town of Agnew was
proud that its 100 beer-drinkers
emptied 90,000 quart-bottles in
eight months.”


had 105 shearers. Big Burra-
wang, on the Lachlan, had 104
machines. I have never been
in either shed, so can’t say
anything about the layout.)
X\T E made down towards
Mudgee, calling at War-
gundy for the roll-call. A full
board there, so went to Mera-
therie, on the Talbragar. Fifty
men were there, but only 10
stands. As Henry Lawson
said, “Men were many, and
sheds were full, for work in
the towns was slack.”
Up the river to Tongy, pass-
ing the Ivy Rock on the way.
The Ivy Rock is one of the
strange rock - formations
scattered here and there around
the country which are a puzzle
to any but a geologist. Forty-
feet high and covering a
quarter of an acre at the base.
Some selector, many years
before, had planted a sprig of
English ivy, which had finally
covered the entire rock, giving
it the appearance of a large
green mound.
Tongy had started, so we
made direct for Mudgee. Ten
miles from Tongy we crossed
the Dividing Range, and were
back on eastern water again
for the first time in nearly four
years.
Through Turill, Ulan, and at
Cooks Gap we crossed to the
west again. A few miles down
the range we came to a strange
sight. At the side of the road
lay a huge, overfat bull placidly
chewing his cud. A man, hat
over his face, was lying com-
fortably against him, sound
asleep.
Naturally, we had to look
into this matter, so woke him
up. He was pleased to have
someone to yarn with, and
told us the story. He intro-
duced himself as Dave,
and we gave him our
names. Frederick McMaster,
later to become Sir Frederick,
of Cassilis, had paid a very
high price for the bull in Eng-
land, and had him shipped to
Sydney. He had been pam-
pered on the voyage out, and
as a result was almost unable
to walk, so fat was he.
Trucked to Mudgee, Dave
had been given the job of
getting him to Dalkeith. Cattle-
floats being unknown then, it
meant walking him the 50
miles. The bull had been
taught to lead, via a nose-ring,
and instructions were given
that on no account must he be
hurried, lest he knock-up.
The bull had an official
name as long as a wet week,
but Dave had christened him
Bonser. He was a very amiable
bull, and Dave reckoned he
was the best bed-mate he’d ever
slept with.
“Only thing,” he said, “if he
wakes up in the night and
brings up a wad of cud to
chew it’s like a flamin’ earth-
quake the way his blanky belly
rumbles.”
Feed was green and plentiful
on the roadside, and, according
to Dave, Bonser was getting
even fatter. It took 20 days for
them to reach Dalkeith, an
average of 21 miles per day.
We left the two mates and
went to Mudgee.
nPHE second settlement over
the Dividing Range
(Bathurst was the first),
Mudgee has a lot of history to
be written-up. Some of the
most fertile country in the
State, notably the Burrundulla
flats, good w'oolgrowing
country and a good climate,
Mudgee is my favorite district.
According to several geo-
logists of my acquaintance
every known mineral in the
world is to be found within
25 miles of the town. It is
famed for having the only
Chinese bushranger in history,
and the story of the building
of the gallows at Mudgee Jail
has a very remarkable co-
incidence.
A man named Pitt cut and
carted the timber, and Rope
erected the gallows. These two
men, and the Chinese bush-
ranger, were the only ones to
die on it. The crimes all three
were hung for would have
brought 10 years, at the most,
today.
Pitt had been lambed-down
at the Pig and Whistle shanty,
near Guntawang, and in a
drunken frenzy had killed the
barmaid with an axe. Rope
had been staying with his
brother and sister-in-law at
Mount Frome. Coming home
drunk, he was ordered out of
the house by the sister-in-law.
He gathered his belongings,
including a rifle, and left. A
hundred yards away he looked
back, and she was standing in
the doorway watching him. He
took his rifle and fired *at a
tree, with the intention of
frightening her, but the bullet
ricocheted and killed her
instantly. The Chinese was
bailing-up a few lonely
travellers around Slapdash and
Barney’s Creek, and made the
mistake of trying to rob Parson
Lowe. Lowe rode him down,
marched him to Gulgong and
handed him over to the police.
HThough Bathurst is said to
be the first settlement west
of the Dividing Range, I don’t
think there is much doubt that
the Mudgee district was the
first to be explored.
While the official expedition
was making preparations to
try to cross the Mountains —in
a typical English manner, by
tackling the toughest part of
the range—Archie Bell, whose
father had a farm near Kurra-
jong, had been observing the
abos. coming from the inland
to the coast. He noticed a well-
defined track, and decided to
ride along it for a few miles.
It led him over the range, up
through the Capertee Valley to
Rylstone and across the water-
shed between the Cudgegong
River and Lawson Creek,
which he followed to its junc-
tion with the Cudgegong,
where there was a long water-
hole called by the blacks
“Mudgee.”
When Mudgee was settled
and the country right to
Coonamble was thrown-open
cattle were brought from Syd-
ney along Bell’s Line up till
the time the railway was
opened in the ’seventies. Worn
down by countless feet over
the centuries, it needed no
labor to put it in order to
travel stock. No hills to climb
and an easy grade all the way,
it seems strange that it was
overlooked by the early ex-
plorers. Traces of Bell’s Line
are still to be seen in the
Capertee Valley.
Mudgee, though it had many
attractions, was a very low-
wage tow'n. It was noted for
large families, mostly boys. So
every cocky had plenty of
cheap labor, and the big
stations drew their casual
workers from the families of
their employees ; strangers had
no chance.
got the gold-fever again,
and, as usual, found an old
chap who knew where there
was “a bit of gold.” This
character, Sloper Potts, had
been mining all his life, and
had made some big strikes, but,
like most of the old diggers,
had put it back in the ground
looking for more. He knew
the history of every field for
50 miles round, and could tell
the depth, what the washdirt
was like, how thick, how wide,
and all the little details which
are useful to the newcomer.
We went with him to Kalud-
bah, and spent a day looking
round and deciding on where
to put a hole down. When the
position of the hole was finally
marked-out he shook hands,
climbed into his sulky and
went back to town. We had
brought all our gear out in
the buggy, so got our camp
fixed-up that evening, ready
for an early start the next
morning.
Sloper was right. We struck
gold in the first hole. Not
rich, but for three months we
made better than wages ; then
ran into the old workings.
After putting down half-a-
dozen more holes without find-
ing anything worth while we
gave it away.
'"F'hat night we intended to
-*• make plans for our next
move, but neither of us had
any suggestions. Cock was in-
different, anywhere suited him.
After a long silence, I
remarked: “1 know, I think
we had better go home for a
few w'eeks and see how the old
people are doing.” It was as
simple as that.
In Mud gee we made a clean
sweep, selling horses and dogs
and buggy. We got much
higher prices than we expected.
And we lost Cock. About two
hours before the train was due
to leave he was offered a job
painting. A§ this had been
his trade in London before
he became a sailor he took
it on. We were sorry to lose
him, as he had been a damn’
good mate, and in his short
time with us had learned the
ways of the bush surprisingly
well. And his quiet, dry humor
never failed to raise a grin
when things were not going
well.
So Dutchy and I were going
home, after four years of
battling round the bush. We’d
had good times, and bad times.
Everything that the outback
had to offer in the way of hard-
ship had been tried on us,
and we had come through,
better men for all our trials.
We had learned the value of
a mate, and we had been
lucky with casual mates who
were with us for only a short
while. We had quarrelled, and
cursed, and threatened each
other, sulked for a while, then
forgot about it.
And now, Dutchy Bishop
and Duke Tritton were going
home, cashed-up for the first
time in our lives. But we both
knew we would never forget
the days when our password
was “Time Means Tucker.”
THE END.


But when we walked into
the bar there was a man deep
in earnest conversation with
Mrs. Moorshead, and when he
turned to face us it was
Templeman. Torrens stopped,
all the pleasure receding from
his face. But Templeman made
an extravagantly welcoming
gesture, and called out in the
heartiest tones:
“Come on in. Have one
with me.”
Torrens went forward again,
unwilling and suspicious, look-
ing sharply at Templeman. He
said, almost accusingly,
“You’ve changed, since we last
saw you.”
“Oh, I’m not drunk ; you
needn’t think that. It’s just the
depressant effect of my drug
wearing off. I feel fine now.
I feel wonderful.”
Torrens turned to Mrs.
Moorshead. “He didn’t feel
wonderful at the funeral. He
was worried stiff because he
didn’t know what to do with
his wreath.”
Mrs. Moorshead looked at
Templeman and began to
giggle.
“Then I began to tell him,”
Torrens went on, greatly
encouraged, “about a scheme
of mine. All the men who
might die any day are to
undertake to attend each
other’s funerals —until it's our
turn. He was so upset, he
nearly fell into an open grave.”
Mrs. Moorshead found this
irresistible. “But is it really
true that you’re likely to die,
Mr. Torrens?”
“It's so true, Mrs Moors-
head, that I’m prepared to sign
a statutory declaration to that
effect. One of us might go
before bedtime tonight.”
“And you can go on joking
about it! I think that’s wonder-
ful. You’ve very brave, all of
you.”
That, with the round-eyed
admiration which went with it,
put both Torrens and
Templeman into excellent
spirits.
“You’re not such a bad bloke
after all, Templeman,” Torrens
said. “You have a drink with
us now.”
“And then you have another
one with me.”
It went on at a great rate
until the buzzer sounded. On
the footpath Torrens stopped
us.
“I don’t feel like going to
bed. What about you two
coming up to my place? We
ought to celebrate the fact that
it. wasn't any of us that was
buried today.”
“Oh, thanks,” said Temple-
man. “But for me it’ll have to
be on the wagon. I’m well
over my allowance today; and
you chaps must be, too.”
“Saved by the bell,” I said.
“We’ll celebrate,” Torrens
assured him. “There must be
something we can do.”
TN large grounds planted with
trees and shrubs, Torrens’s
house was almost invisible
from the road. A light had
been left on at the side near
the garage, and just as we were
about to enter the house
Torrens stopped abruptly to
stare with intense disapproval
at a tennis-racquet lying on
the lawn. Nearby was a tennis-
ball ; someone had been
practising strokes against the
wall.
“Kids,” Torrens said with
exaggerated disgust, the family
man, “never put anything
away.”
He retrieved the racquet and
swung it through some imagin-
ary forehand and backhand
strokes.
“Feels like a good racquet,”
he exclaimed.
Then he examined it under
the light.
“It is a good racquet.
Bought it quite recently for my
eldest daughter,” he said, be-
coming indignant. “And this
is how she treats it.”
“Let me have a look at it,”
Templeman asked.
He had been an inter-Stale
player in the days of his youth
and strength ; that he couldn’t
allow anyone to remain
ignorant of it was another
reason people disliked him.
“Just an ordinary school-
kid’s racquet,” Templeman
announced, as one who had
walked onto courts before
crowds of people, carrying
armfuls of the best racquets
obtainable.
“Here,” Torrens demanded,
suddenly tense and animated,
“give me that racquet.”
He took up a position to play
the ball against the wall, well
back, probably remembering
his condition so that he could
take the ball as it bounced
gently from the lawn, instead
of attempting to volley it
directly off the brick wall.
He hit the ball back quite
smartly a few times, exhibiting
some fairly skilful strokes.
“It’s a good racquet,” he
announced. Then he held it
out to Templeman: “Here,
you try it; show' us some of
those strokes you used to win
the Davis Cup.”
Templeman took the racquet
eagerly.
T»ut a lot of things had
happened to Templeman’s
muscles since he’d been a tennis
champion. It wasn't only his
corpulence, because some fat
men are quite nimble ; all his
muscular reactions were so de-
layed that his timing was comi-
cally erratic. When he finally
played earnestly at the ball
after it had already passed him,
Torrens said to me: “Here,
George, show him how it
should be done.”
Templeman went to sit on
the brick parapet at the side
of the steps, panting extrava-
gantly. 1 returned the ball
about 15 times, hitting it more
cleanly and with better style
than either Torrens or Temple-
man. But then I missed, and
the ball flashed past me.
“I’ll get it,” Torrens volun-
teered, now full of surprising
goodwill and eagerness.
I was just about to go and
help him find it, when a sickly
dizziness came over me. I got
to the other side of the steps
with as much strength as I
could command, and sat down
opposite Templeman. As soon
as I was still, I could feel
my heart hammering with a
frightening violence.
Then Torrens was at it again.
He did the same number of
ground strokes as I had, then
moved close to the wall and
ended with a rapid exchange of
volleys. But he was all-in when
he finished, and had tp join us,
gasping painfully, on the steps.
“That was good,” I
applauded. “But now 1 think
we ought to be satisfied.”
“Not on your life,” Torrens
protested. “Can't you see that
our ex-champion has to show
us he can do a lot better than
mere local players?”
“You’re right,” Templeman
agreed, as if it was inevitable.
“1 have to show you up.”
Although 1 realised we were
foolish, i could still feel the
compulsion of the contest in
which we had involved our-
selves. Even while 1 was itch-
ing to outdo Torrens, I had
sense enough to appeal to Tem-
pleman.
“This is much more
strenuous, you know, than
chasing your hat when the
wind blows it away.”
But Templeman gaped at
me, as if he could see no con-
nection between the two things.
“All right,” X said ; “my go.”
Tnstantly Templeman sprang
up and gripped the racquet.
“It’s my turn. Me after
Torrens.” It seemed that I’d
tried to do him out of his
fundamental human rights.
He began hitting the ball
against the wall, playing his
strokes confidently and almost
stylishly. Then he went in close
to the wall to show us how
to volley, made a number of
brilliant, rapid exchanges, then
hit three difficult, angled re-
turns, for which he had to
reach strenuously, first to one
side, then the other. Suddenly
he seemed to lose interest in
the ball ; his arms dropped to
his sides, his head drooped
forward, he sagged at the
knees, and collapsed in a
gentle, tired way on the lawn.
Torrens dashed inside to
telephone doctor and ambu-
lance, while I put Templeman
into a comfortable position and
tried to feel his pulse.
A fter the medical people had
come and gone, Torrens
turned to me excitedly.
“Boy, oh boy! Were we
dicing with death tonight!”
He was full of exultation.
“That could have been you,
George, or me, they are taking
away! But it isn’t! I guess
that despite our limitations,
we’ve had what they used to
call a crowded hour of glorious
life! ”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Union Ballots
C. R. Cameron, M.H.R.,
State A.L.P. president in S.A.,
says union-ballots should be
compulsory, like the Common-
wealth elections. It’s a point
—it might provide an added
check on the number of ballot-
papers “unaccounted for,”
apart from arousing more
interest in what could be an
important matter. But what is
wanted even more urgently is a
better system of counting the
ballots and the appointment
of an independent returning-
officer.
The usual practice now is
for the governing body of a
union to appoint a returning-
officer. He’s usually the sec-
retary, if the voting is for
president or membership of the
governing body, or the presi-
dent if the ballot is for
secretary. In some unions this
has been the practice for so
long that custom overrides
the rules, and either of these
officials may demand to be
made returning-officer.
Now the r.-o. isn’t under
any obligation to be impartial.
♦ He can actually campaign for
or against a candidate. He has
charge of the ballot-papers—
he orders the required number
from the printer, who almost
invariably supplies a number
of “overs.” He initials each
paper and sees that they’re dis-
patched to the various offices,
factories or centres for distri-
bution to the individual
members. He receives the
sealed envelopes on their
return, locks them in con-
tainers and retains the keys.
At the counting he supervises
the opening of the envelopes
and he examines the papers and
says in whose favor the votes
are cast, placing each candi-
date’s votes in the correct heap.
Usually scrutineers are
appointed—also by the govern-
ing body—to assist him ; but
they may not even glance at
the papers. Sometimes they
act as clerks and record the
votes called out by the r.-o. It
can happen than the r.-o. is
the only person who sees the
ballot-papers. And at the end
of the count he declares the
result of the poll and takes
charge of the papers again.
The loopholes are obvious.
Only the r.-o. knows how many
‘'overs” come from the printer.
It may be a couple, or it may
be a hundred, or at least
enough to secure a candidate’s
election if used for that
purpose—as they can be if the
r.-o. cares to use them.
Remember, he has charge of
the papers, which are returned
m sealed envelopes, these being
also sealed in counterfoils
bearing the voters’ names. The
r.-o. usually has a fair idea of
how certain members can be
expected to vote. Apart from
his honesty there’s, nothing to
stop him from substituting
papers from his surplus supply
“Under the new Defamation Act, Miss Bentwistle, it
boils down to this —We publish in emasculated form or
YOU go to jail!”
for others he suspects of being
against his candidate.
The system of voting for
unions is well thought-out and
designed to ensure honest elec-
tion. But everything depends
on the r.-o. It works per-
fectly where he’s honest and
takes his job seriously. If he’s
dishonest or weak or careless
the same system makes almost
impossible the election of any
candidate unfavorable to the
union’s governing body.
It shouldn’t be hard for
Governments to legislate for the
appointment of an independent
returning-officer to be chosen
by the Arbitration Court or the
electoral office. Without that
provision you’ll still get honest
elections, but there won’t be
any entirely free from suspi-
cion. And there’ll always be a
crop of ugly rumors seeping
out of the Trades Hall. —
Pieter Nuyts (W.A.).
Science and Religion
“Jas. Macansh” (B. 21 /1/’59)
is in good company when he
seeks for the world “a common
spiritual goal.” There have
been many voices over the past
decades raising a similar call.
“A new channel of communi-
cation with the infinite and the
everlasting is clearly the need
of the age,” said Arnold
Bennett, “that is to say, a new
religion.”
Science and religion must
go hand-in-hand ; it is science
without religious faith which
has brought today’s world to
the nadir of fear and to the
brink of destruction. On the
other hand, as G. N. Tyrrell
puts it in The Personality of
Man —and the statement is
equally true of the other great
religions—“ The protagonists of
Christianity continue to state
their religion in terms of the
mental background which was
universal when Christianity
began.”
To expect the necessary
reconciliation to be brought
about by the revival of any of
the extant great religions—
Christianity, Islam, Buddhism,
Hinduism and so on—is failing
to recognise the evidence of
history, however ; it is equiva-
lent to the Jewish insistence
that the Messiah should revive
the great Hebrew traditions.
Of the new religion for
which he looked, Arnold
Bennett suggested that “it will
be based on such a creed as the
majority of the best minds can
sincerely subscribe to.” Here
is the key for those who, like
“Jas. Macansh,” are sincere in
their search among the many
“new religions” of this century.
—Peeßee (Q.).
The Australian Legend
Concerning the Red Page
review of Russell Ward’s The
Australian Legend and his
claim that the convict became
the Noble Bushman and the
culture-hero of Australia, J
suppose it depends on which
weird mob at present inhabit-
ing this country can be said
to represent Australia.
We still have plenty of con-
victs in our prisons and we
release thousands of them on
the community every year
without their influencing us
very much. The Noble Bush-
man —now listening to city
broadcasts from the radio in
his Holden —is as dead as the
dodo.
If by “culture-hero” Ward
means the hero created by
the literary tramps of the
past —an ill-paid, half-starved,
half-drunk gang singing their
songs of sin, sweat and sorrow ;
blind in their misery to the
prosperity of the new Sydney
and Melbourne building about
them—then, on the dubious
evidence they have left us, he
might be right. And the
author wiil continue to find
further assurance in the booze-
and-brothel slum-stories by
which contemporary writers
continue to present us to the
world despite the fact that the
world knows us through the
representatives of many
millions of useful citizens who
have never seen anything of
that sordid side.
I write with a certain
assurance, because I come from
both the convict and the bush-
man world. From 1829 my
great-uncle was governor of
the female penitentiary in
Hobart Town ; my great-grand-
father was for 27 years chief
officer of Convict Commis-
sariat for Van Diemen’s Land ;
and some of their sons assisted
them. Although they wrote
a great deal, they never men-
tioned that part of the daily
chore, their preoccupation
being in the churches they


EXPERIENCED COUNSEL
The Bank’s 123 years’ experience
and its wide knowledge of com-
mercial and industrial activities is
freely available to customers who
seek it.
m
nr
INTEREST-BEARING
DEPOSITS
Interest-bearing deposits with this
Bank provide a safe and flexible
means of investment.
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK
FACILITIES
An ever-increasing number of cus-
tomers use the C.B.C. Savings
Bank to make money grow. Open
an account to-day.
BANKING SERVICES
are many and varied
TRADE INFORMATION
The C.B.C. welcomes enquiries
regarding market locations and
trade introductions. It provides
a comprehensive service for
all classes of foreign banking
business.
The
Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. Savings Bank Limited
(DEPOSITS GUARANTEED BY THE PARENT COMPANY)
founded, and the apple
orchards they were the first to
create there.
Was there one Australian in
a thousand who ever knew a
convict, a shearer or a Noble
Bushman? And how did it
happen, that the Melbourne
gold-rush crowd received the
convict-bushman culture when
there was no transportation of
convicts to Victoria, and the
bushman at that time was pre-
dominantly a sheep squatter?
My father was also a Noble
Bushman, and 1 was bush-
bred. We came to town twice
a year—to the regatta and the
agricultural show—chiefly, as
far as 1 remember, to laugh at
the semi-illiterate language and
hill-billy behavior of Dad
and Dave and the girls in their
pink-flannel frocks, just as
millions of Australians have
laughed at them since on stage
and radio. They would have
been hurt to be told they were
laughing at themselves, and
rightly so.
We thought they were
terrible hicks. We were so
ashamed of them that, like most
young hill-billies, we got out
of the bush as soon as we
could. Nor do I recall, during
a long life, any urge to return
to the wit, the scintillating con-
versation, or any part of the
culture of the Noble Bush-
man.
Within a year of coming to
town I had acquired a bogus
Oxford accent and become one
of the city smartiesmy envious
yokel friends had warned me
about. Over the years I
noticed that all their sons and
daughters followed me.
I believe that in the cities
the Irish influenced us con-
siderably, and gave us many
of our least-engaging foibles.
Nevertheless this would have
been a hell of a dull country
without them. Jack Cato
(Vic.).
Writers and TV
H. A. Lindsay (B. 28/1/’59)
doesn’t convince me that I’m
entirely wrong in my plea for
better-paid special writers and
writing for TV, and I particu-
larly object to his citing “My
Fair Lady” as evidence against
me.
“My Fair Lady” was origin-
ally written (as “Pygmalion”)
for the legitimate stage, then
rewritten —by Shaw and tech-
nical advisers —as a screenplay,
and finally transformed, by
different writers again, into a
musicomedy libretto. Could it
be denied that very new,
special (and brilliant) creative
writing shaped it to its latest
form?
Though alike in plot, “Pyg-
malion” and “My Fair Lady”
are, from the artistic, technical
and even creative points of
view, very unlike in form.
That, in fact, is the real point
I tried to make that it is
technically unsatisfactory ro
transfer stage-plays and/or
films to the “little screen” as
they stand ; that specialist
writers should rewrite and re-
shape them for the new
medium. Lucrative rewards
remain the strongest lure to
this kind of work.
Of course, TV-executives at
present, like those of the film-
industry 40 years ago, are
simply businessmen seeking
quick profits regardless of
form. That’s why TV-pro-
grammes on the whole are
neither very good entertain-
ment nor very good art. Only
time, money and special writing
will change 'this.—P. O. M. C.
(N.S.W.).
Teaching the Rudiments
“Orion” (B. 28/1/’59) hits
the nail on the head in assert-
ing: “It should be the busi-
ness of our schools and our
children actively to pursue
much more substantial values
than they have been meddling
with in recent years.”
Two essential, basic subjects
that have been badly neglected
during the last decade are
English expression and arith-
metic. I have been surprised,


and somewhat depressed, !o
hear how many bright, intel-
ligent students have failed in
English—a compulsory subject
—at Leaving and Matriculation
levels ; mathematics, too, >s a
stumbling-block for many at
the Intermediate stage so
much so that some students
have despaired of passing in
mathematics at Intermediate
standard and have tackled the
Leaving without any maths at
all (it is not essential for the
Leaving in Victoria).
Poor teaching is undoubtedly
to blame. Trained maths
teachers are scarce, competent
ones scarcer still. Present-day
teaching-methods in English
are certainly not getting good
results; the proportion of
secondary-school pupils who
can express their ideas in well-
constructed, correctly spelt
English is deplorably low.
The basic trouble in maths
seems to be that children are
not properly grounded in
arithmetic. Lacking a reason-
able degree of skill in the
simplest branch of maths, they
are heavily handicapped when
confronted with the intricacies
of algebra or geometry. Simi-
larly, failure to master the
elements of grammar and com-
position in the earlier school
years tells heavily against the
pupil who is required to pass
in English at Leaving or
Matriculation standard.
Proper instruction should be
given in these subjects from
“Remember me up the Cold Coast ?
primary standard upwards, and
the school curriculum should
allow adequate time for such
instruction, instead of frittering
away precious hours on less
important topics. D. J. G.
(Vic.)
Racial Integration
Early in the war two families
came to our country village,
now an outer outei;-suburb of
the city. They were very poor,
and our people fell over back-
wards feeding and clothing
them. One of the fathers got
a job on a large Government
project—house supplied—and
is now a skilled worker on
top wages. He often returns
to do weekend work for locals,
and wants his family to have
only the best. The other father
got a job with an interna-
tional corporation and was
soon financed by his employers
into a £4OOO home in the
village.
This family is now grown-
up, the elders married (social
events) and raising families.
The bridegrooms were local
Aussies, and their brides are
generally admired. We are
proud of the results, and they
are proud to be treated as part
of ourselves, but there is no
mawkishness on either side.
Some of their less lucky rela-
tions were placed in a settle-
ment on the other side of the
city, and our “pets” sometimes
visit them. They hate the duty,
because, as one father said with
a grin, “They live like black-
fellers.”
Our two families are
aborigines war - evacuees
from a mission in the Gulf of
Carpentaria.
Integration is in the air, and
this case of complete integra-
tion—though perhaps the war
had something to do with it—
is an example of what can be
done.
The secret of this sort of
assimilation seems to be: (a)
catch them young and
malleable; (/») plant them in
communities where there is no
old-fashioned race prejudice;
and (c) keep them more-or-less
isolated from their own kind.
(This would not hurt the young,
who would grow to have as
little interest in their uncles,
aunts and cousins as we have in
ours.)
The aborigines as a race
must either die or be inte-
grated ; and the sooner the
latter the less painful in the
long-run.—R. W. C. (N.S.W.).
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 525
Across
] —Hard outside service by a family of shellfish. (9)
6 —Sorceress is put back by fifty. (5)
9—Arts turned in the ocean oyster. (9)
10 — Assault with broken stone. „ (5)
11 — Japanese sash. (3)
12 — Backwardly spank with ack-ack equipment for hikers. (9)
14 — Place some restrictive boundary upon 50 before Yours
Truly has Clara Bow’s sex-appeal. (5)
15— One to disentangle some relative. (6)
16—Spanish fright of the chap. (8)
19 —Poker hands majestic corpora-
tions. (4, 4)
21 —Poster containing very quick
relaxation in the post-
office. (6)
24 Roy Rene took a bride when
cut down. (5)
25 — 'Sugar spoilt tea, but Ham
saved by the last fictional
kingdom. (9)
26 — Do you change color? (3)
27 — Hot-hearted loincloth. (5)
28 — Dance with an Oaks runner to
start a thingummybob. (9)
30 — Percy Nichols heartened by this
character of surly, austere,
unsentimental humor. (5)
31 — What comes after a changed
America picture of a right-angle
with two houses. (9)
Down
1 — Lumbago might be the cause of
this Richard 111. (9)
2 Disorderly puritan transport to
town. (7)
3 Give the Maori a drink. (3)
4 Clean without a cloth which
has no lot to squeeze up tight
and tensely. (6)
5 A song upset a muscular twitch
who’s not convinced there’s a
God. (8)
6 Narks the proceeds of plundering
wines. (11)
7 Diamond corner patrolled by this
low fellow. (7)
8 — Allowed a service which is half-
good, half-bad. (3)
13 —Had a skid record reason for
1-down? (7, 4)
17 — Two states of health in a N.S.W.
town. (9)
18 — Saint to age a Biblical character
with theatrical work. (5, 3)
20—Eft to have possession of some
of Sydney. (7)
22 — Rat errs in a film from the star’s
viewpoint. (7)
23 Lethargic without 8-down. (6)
24 Evatt introducing himself in
pidgin wine. (5)
29 —Kept by the secretive parent. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 524.


Missing Friend
To GRAHAM ERIC SVENSEN
formerly of Karara in the State of
Queensland but now of parts unknown
TAKE NOTICE that your wife
FRANCES JEAN SVENSEN has insti-
tuted proceedings against you for
divorce on the ground of desertion and
UNLESS you enter an Appearance in the
Protlionotary’s Office of the Supreme
Court Melbourne on or before the 20th
day of March and file an answer on
or before the Ist day of April 1959 the
case may proceed in your absence
and vou mav be ordered to pav costs —
NORMAN LANDAU, 415 Bourke Street,
Melbourne. Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Food and the Traveller
It would be nice if a body
such as the R.A.C. or Tourist
Bureau would bolster belief in
our high standard of living by
listing such odd eateries along
main highways that do not,
under the guise of food, supply
the frustrated traveller with
such gastronomical calamities
as the fry-pan steak, the flaccid
lettuce-leaf and the warmed-
up potato-chip.
There ore hotels listed, but
even if the motorist hits the
town bang on meal time, he
and his family might not all
yearn for 12-bobs’ worth of
soup, meat and pudding.
Spouse and I left Melbourne
at 5 a.m., chanced on no
culinary bright-spots en route
and arrived at our Glenelg
(S.A.) hotel at 6.15 p.m., hot,
dusty and tired. The girl at
the reception-desk said dinner
was on and would we please
go straight in. Wife said
shortly: “We won’t bother.”
We bathed, changed and
strolled out about 7.30. Up
a side street we luckily found
a small cafe with perfect
mushroom - covered filet-
mignons— at just half Mel-
bourne or Sydney prices.—-
Sevenelms (Vic.).
New Aussies and English
Like “27 Pommy” (B.
14/1/’59), I have met, and got
to know, a lot of migrants—
German, Slav, Italian, Polish
and Dutch. Some of them
took advantage of their
foreignness; others used
awards to gain easy money
“on compo.”; and I have even
met a few who, like some of
my own countrymen, have
bludged on their mates. How-
ever —and I have spent 10
years teaching migrants to
speak English—l have met
very few who did not want to
learn English, and, having
learned it, were not eager to
use it.
This, for most, has been no
easy task. Learning new
languages requires special
abilities. In our own system
of education it is a task
reserved only for the more
able among secondary-school
children. It requires a good
ear and a sound memory. And
English is one of the most
difficult languages.
Also, many of the students
at continuation classes have
not had much education in
their own countries, so they
have initial difficulties in read-
ing and writing. Although
English-teaching for migrants
is basically oral, instruction is
given from blackboard and
textbook, which the semi-
literate find difficult to follow.
Shift - work and frequent
changes of camp and other
demands of their jobs handi-
cap many in their attempts to
learn, and women find that
children and housework inter-
fere.
Nevertheless, in six differ-
ent centres scattered over a
thousand miles of W.A. I have
found that New Australians
flocked to newly opened
classes, and as long as they
felt that they were learning
something they kept coming.
And, contrary to the experi-
ence of “27 Pommy,”, once
they got a smattering of the
language you couldn’t stop
them frorii airing it. —L. R. M.
(W.A.).
The Fishing Industry
What’s happened to Aus-
tralia’s fishing industry? Gone
are the days when you could
“First you spit on it, then you chuck it over your left
shoulder for luck, then you clap your hands to your
ears
buy fish at a reasonable price
in any seaside city and many
country towns. Fish today is
a luxury food in most house-
holds. No doubt fish are still
being caught round the Aus-
tralian coast, but it costs a
fortune to get them to city
and suburban shops, and then
the buyer has to carry them
home There are no “fish
men” calling at the door as
there used to be in pre-war
days.
Today I heard a fishery
expert from C.5.1.R.0. being
interviewed on an A.B.C.
station. The best he could
suggest was that the valuable
trawling-areas in the Great
Australian Bight should be
developed. These were dis-
covered 50 years ago ; and if
we haven’t been able to develop
them in that time and get the
fish to city markets, are we
likely to be able to do it at
present-day costs?
There are several hundred
square-miles of good trawling-
grounds southward from
Sydney to Wollongong and
beyond, and many more hun-
dreds of square-miles of well-
stocked fishing-grounds on the
N.S.W. North Coast. If we
can't get fish from these to
city markets at a reasonable
cost, what hope have we of
developing more-distant areas?
Apparently the Japanese
can teach us something about
the game. A few months ago
when passing through the
Coral Sea, off the Australian
coast but outside the Barrier
Reef, in a small ship bound
for Dutch New Guinea and
Borneo, we passed two
Japanese trawlers fine
modern ships with refrigera-
tors to hold their catch—
operating out of sight of land
and 3000 miles from their base,
and apparently making it pay.
But we, with this fishing-
ground almost within sight of
our coast, are doing nothing
about it. Perhaps some of the
tins of so-called salmon I saw
at the Japanese Trade Fair in
Sydney came from the Coral
Sea, via Japan.
In Singapore recently I
saw a fleet of six modern
Russian trawters. They had
come many thousands of miles
from the Baltic and still had
several thousand more to
travel to Vtadivostock, from
where they would work the
fishing-grounds. These trawlers
obviously have a long
steaming-range or, as one
should say these days, a long
diesel-range. In a few years
we might have the choice of
eating Japanese- or Russian-
caught fish in Australia. —
Orang Puteh (N.S.W.).
Railways
My local paper quoted a
retiring stationmaster as say-
ing that no form of transport
could displace the railways. I
would amend the statement to
read: “....entirely displace
the railways.”
Before War If, when I was
in the U.S., it was said that
the day of the steam-train, and
even the diesel-electric, was
over, except for the cartage of
heavy freight. Nowadays the
position has worsened. Many
adult Americans can’t remem-
ber when they last travelled a
long distance by train; and
the president of the N.Y. Cen-
tral has said that in about 10
or 12 years long-distance
passenger-trains, as we know
them, will be uneconomical
and will not be run at all.
These trains are being re-
placed by fast bus or plane
services, which are cleaner and
more comfortable than trains,
and not much dearer. The
returns from train travellers
will not pay the interest on
the vast capital-cost of the last
decade’s improvements in rail-
ways.
But .even after long-distance
passenger-trains have gone fast
inter-urban trains —like the
Bamberger Electric between
Salt Lake and Ogden—-may
run for years if they can stand
road competition. Sanasi
(Q).


Sheep have not always
been shorn. It is be-
lieved that originally
they were plucked for
their wool. Research
has set the date when
the first shearing
blades were used at
about 1000 B.C. With
the introduction of
modem sh e a r i n g
machines and shear-
ing tables sheep rais-
ing today employs
highly efficient
methods—one of out-
standing merit being
the Elastrator Rub-
ber Ring system for
marking and tailing
lambs. This is a
system which, com-
pared with cruder
methods, has resulted
in a marked reduc-
tion of losses and
better protection
against set-back, fly-
strike and other
diseases.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
AGRICULTURE IN WESTERN SAMOA
By JOHN O’GRADY (“Nino Culotta”)
3SX7estern Samoa, due to
become fully self-govern-
ing at the end of next year,
occupies an isolated position
near the centre of the Pacific
Ocean. It is one of the few
countries in the world earning
foreign goods entirely by the
export of primary produce and
has no secondary industries
worthy of the name. A couple
of small saw-mills, cordial-
factories, and a soap-factory
sell their products only to their
own people, so the country is
almost entirely agricultural,
producing food-crops for local
consumption and for export.
There are four main islands
—two large and two small—
with a total land-area of about
1130 square-miles, and a
population of something over
100,000. The islands are
formed of volcanic rocks, with
central mountain - ranges,
covered with rain-forests and
very rugged, rising in Savai’i
to over 6000 feet. The people
live around the foreshores in
small village - communities
numbering about 400, and
cultivate foreshore-land and the
lower slopes of the mountains.
But because of the rocky nature
of the land, none of it is arable
“Why SHOULDN’T I be more civilised like the
white-fella?”
and the use of the plough is
unknown. Over the past 66
years, the average maximum
temperature has been Ssdeg. F.,
the average relative humidity
83 per cent., and the average
annual rainfall 112.77 in. The
year is divided into wet and
dry seasons, but showers
are fairly common in the
dry season, and the main
noticeable difference is that the
south-east trade-winds blow
during the dry, and the showers
are heavier in the wet, when
any winds come as brief storms
out of the north-west. Only
the generally reliable rainfall
makes agriculture possible,
since the rocky porous soil does
not retain moisture.
Land-ownership can be
divided into three principal
groups. First, Samoan cus-
tomary land, owned by families
and villages, and administered
by elected chiefs. Its primary
purpose is to produce food for
its owners. It has been so used
for centuries, and the “shift-
ing crop” method of cultivation
is still the one most favored.
Secondly, there is the Western
Samoa Trust Estates Corpora-
tion, administered by a Board
appointed by the High Com-
missioner and under the prac-
tical management of its
general-manager, a New Zea-
lander. The estates were
originally known as New Zea-
land Reparation Estates, and
consisted of German planta-
tions acquired after 1914. Most
of the original acreage has been
handed over to the Samoan
people, and the corporation
now utilises just over 30,000
acres. Thirdly, there is “pri-
vate property”—freehold land
owned by Europeans and part-
Samoans, descendants of early
settlers. These, and W.S.T.E.C.,
practise modern methods of
plantation-management. Acting
in an advisory capacity, con-
ducting experimental stations,
sending out field-teams and
inspectors, controlling pest-
diseases and weeds, and
engaged in general research, is
the Department of Agriculture.
Its avowed aim is to improve
the quantity and quality of
crops for export.
The basic food-crops of the
Samoans are taro, bananas and
coconuts. (Bananas are not
allowed to ripen, but are
cooked green.) These basic
crops are supplemented, from
the land, by ta’amu (another
lily-root type of food akin to
taro, but larger and softer),
breadfruit, papaw and other
fruits, chickens and pigs, and
from the sea, fish and shell-fish.
The use of beef, particularly
corned-beef, is increasing.
W.S.T.E.C. runs about 14,000
head of cattle, which graze
among the coconuts and keep-
down undergrowth, and
operates a small, modem
killing-plant.
Copra, cocoa, and bananas
form the bulk of the exports,
supplemented by small quan-
tities of coffee, rubber, timber,
hides, taro and sundry fruits.
No primary machinery is used,
all planting and harvesting
being done by manual labor ;
but considering the nature of
the land and the natural
indolence of the Polynesian,
the results are impressive. The
only complete figures I have
are for the year 1957, but in
that year 14,325 tons of copra
were exported, 3069 tons of
cocoa, 44 tons of rubber,
329,125 cases of bananas, and
3609 cases of taro. Total value
of exports for the year was
around £(stg.) 2 million.
Diseases and insect-pests are
a problem. It is estimated that
the rhinocerous-beetle is
responsible for a loss of
between 20 per cent, and 30
per cent, of the copra crop,
that scabmoth, weevil-borer,
leaf-spot and bunchy-top
knock-out about 25 per cent,
of bananas, and that black-pod
and canker are responsible for
a 15 per cent, loss in cocoa.
The Department of Agriculture
is active in the fight, engaging
in both research and practical
warfare. Control-teams destroy
rhinocerous - beetle breeding
places as well as beetles, eggs,
pupae and larvae, and the
department provides a farm-
service to spray cocoa-trees. It
distributes a monthly informa-
tion-circular to assist growers
in all aspects of planting, pest-
and disease-control, harvest-
ing, processing and packing.
It also maintains contact with
each village through the pulefa-
'ato'aga traditional village
agriculture-boss—who is now
a part - time Government
officer, on the payroll. He
supervises planting and main-
tenance of crops.
Marketing is well organised.
Trading-firms, mostly locally
owned, operate trading-stations
in the villages, and Samoan
growers sell their copra and
cocoa through these channels.
A Copra Board negotiates for
overseas disposal, and main-
tains a stabilisation-fund. A
Government-operated banana-
scheme arranges for the supply
of cases to the grower, for
inspection of the fruit, and for
transportation to the shipping-
point at Apia. All bananas are
shipped to New Zealand, being
purchased f.o.b. by a New


«SS
41A
V'' e y e y°'ji l
gßsaggjs
Sii
ms
iM§Bs&
W>i»iWi
mmm
--4'H
m
\
WyW
3*e
t
$K>
p§ii§
sjs§S
Wm
v-.v.v
•Ml;::,
w, u*m
Wt
s
mm
mm
%
»UI,
%
I
at
\\-\v
*£&&s%
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES, DISTILLED & BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
Arthur Bell & Sons Ltd., Distillers, Perth, Scotland. Est. 1825
Zealand commercial organisa-
tion. The grower receives the
purchase-price, less cost of
cases, handling, etc. In 1957
he received an average of 10s.
(stg.) a case. Since bananas are
less trouble than copra, the
tendency amongst Samoan
growers is to concentrate on
them. When I left the country
last November, export of
bananas was already approach-
ing a million cases for the year,
whilst the amount of copra
exported was decreasing.
What of the future? The
present policy of the Govern-
ment —no longer under New
Zealand control, but amenable
to New Zealand advice —is to
increase the agricultural drive.
This is understandable, since
all Government income is
dependent, in the last analysis,
on primary production, and
Government expenditure is
increasing to meet demands for
education, health services, etc.
But the Samoan is limited io
his 1130 square-miles of ocean-
encircled islands, and most of
those square-miles are unfit for
cultivation. Increased agri-
cultural efforts can do little
more than keep abreast of in-
creased population. The
annual birthrate is 31 per thou-
sand, and it needs no Einstein
to work out that eventually
all the available land will be
required to feed the people,
and there will be no food sur-
pluses for export.
The Department of Agri-
culture, by persuading the
people to adopt better
and less wasteful farm-
ing-methods, by introducing
subsidiary crops and obtaining
effective control over pests and
diseases, can postpone this,
but cannot avert it. Western
Samoa can feed its people for
a long time to come, but will
soon have to start looking for
other exports, visible or in-
visible, to maintain its social
services and to continue the
importation of those civilised
amenities to which its people
have become accustomed.
Book Review
Sheep. Part I: Sheep Hus-
bandry : P. G. Stevens. (Whit-
combe and Tombs). This is
an excellent book. Before
giving the reasons for this
conclusion, I ought to explain
how it happens that a dairy-
husbandry worker is writing a
review of a book on sheep-
husbandry. I know very little
indeed about sheep-husbandry,
„or, at least, knew very little
until I had read this book. I
wanted a fairly short account
of the field which would not
only give practical information
but also leave me a general
appreciation of the sheep-
husbandman’s poblems. This
book of P. G. Stevens was
just what I wanted. It is just
the book for the practical man
on the land, because it is so
clearly written, and just the
book for the student, because
jt keeps the reader’s attention
and interest throughout.
I hate looking for faults, but
a reviewer must do his duty.
On page 3 it is stated that fats
differ from oils only in their
physical state, whereas fats are
chemically different from oils.
The third paragraph on page
61 refers to “rational” grazing.
1 think the writer means rota-
tional grazing, though I admit
that in most cases the term
“rational” fits well! In con-
nection with the reference to
shearing-rate on page 79,
fourth paragraph, I take it the
sentence should read “As the
ewes are heavy to handle
the shearing-rate is somewhat
lower than for normal shear-
ing.”
The style generally is clear
and eminently readable. The
text is mainly free from typo-
graphical errors, and the pro-
duction of the book is
eminently suited for its pur-
pose. The binding is pleasant
and will not show the effects of
farmers’ hands, while the
printing is clear. The illustra-
tions are good —several, I feel,
were added because they are
excellent photographs. The
illustration of “fat - lamb
pastures” opposite page 21, a
photograph taken by the
author, is the sort of thing one
should see more often in text-
books.
1 recommend this book to
the tyro like myself who
wishes to learn about sheep, or
to the experienced farmer who
wishes to learn the latest in the
the application of science to
sheep-husbandry. It is a fine
synthesis of the art of the
husbandman with the detailed
discoveries of science in the
field of animal-husbandry.
W. G. Whittlestone
Develop New South
Wales
From the Shire Clerk, Bre-
warrina: The Brewarrina
Shire Council fully supports
the article under the above
heading (B. 24/12/’5B). The
Shire of Brewarrina was con-
stituted in 1955 by uniting the
former Municipality of Bre-
warrina with lands in the
western division. During 1958
the local-government bodies
and other organisations from
Moree to Bourke and Cobar
formed the Barwon-Darling
Rivers Development League.
The object of the league is to
sponsor water-conservation on
the Barwon and Darling
Rivers and tributaries, and
every effort is being made to
interest the Minister for Con-
servation in the scheme. Given
adequate water there is no
doubt about the potential of
the lands along these rivers.
American Views on
Wool
“MacMuirick”: American
woolgrowers were unanimous
in their criticism of wool-pro-
motion methods in the U.S.A.
A member of the party of
12 who came to Australia to
study wool - production
methods, C. Redd, from Utah,
said that for every dollar spent
on wool-promotion in the
U.S.A., 10 dollars are spent on
promotion of synthetics.
At present the United States
woolmen give one cent per
pound of wool produced to the
Wool Bureau for sales-pro-
motion, but disatisfaction with
the results may cause the dis-
continuation of the levy when
it comes up for ratification in
the middle of this year.
Leader of the party, L.
Nadasdy, of Minnesota, said
that advertising was confined
to expensive Eastern States
fashion-magazines which have
a very limited public and are
seldom seen by the average
American.
Fat-lamb production was
limited in the U.S.A., said
Harold Watters, who came
from the central western States.
He claimed that though con-
sumption in the U.S. might be
low, it was still 50 per cent,
higher for lamb than it was in
Canada.
Preparation of the clip by
woolgrowers in the U.S. was
criticised by C. Redd. He said
that the only work done on the
clip in the shed is to remove
sweat locks and stains. The
bellies are not removed from
the fleeces, and the whole


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
OSULUV/vn
PTV LTD v
?»s
ARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating;
Walson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
fleece is rolled-up and sent to
the mill as it is.
Improvement in fleece-pre-
paration would not come until
the mills start to give the pro-
ducers some encouragement to
improve their methods. At
present the mills give no
greater price to breeders who
skirt and prepare their clip
than to those with no prepara-
tion at all.
Main breeds of sheep in the
western States, where most of
the party comes from, are
Rambouillet and Columbia.
The latter is of similar breed-
ing to the Corriedale, but has
been selected for a larger
frame, and cuts a good fleece
of 565.
Fruit-fly
“Malua”: The season of
tasteless fruit is here again,
because, to cheat the fruit-fly,
fruits are being picked half-
ripe, with skins too tough for
the wog to dig-in. Forty years
ago, California amazed the
world with its enormous,
luscious - looking peaches,
which travellers said tasted
like cotton-wool, because of
artificial ripening. It seems that
now we are rapidly catching-
up in the backward race
towards tastelessness and
inferior size.
Ten years ago my small
block was a pinpoint in a mile
radius of vacant scrub and
knew no pests. Today I am
surrounded by Green Belters
whose backyard-orchards are
infested. Some conscientious
neighbors spend far more on
poisons than the fruit is worth;
I have seen trees pale with
dried spray, without any
noticeable result. Others give-
up and have fallen fruit liter-
ally crawling along the ground ;
but, in spite of the law about
fallen infected fruit, I have
never known a case of prosecu-
tion. As long as we have these
self-contained hatcheries dotted
over the country we shall have
bigger and better crops of Hies,
until Nature ruthlessly re-
adjusts the balance, and the
flies, like the dinosaurs, destroy
their own food-supply.
The crux of the matter is
this upset balance of Nature.
The wireless tells us to spray
this for that and that for this,
until we are befogged with
numerals and initials. My
neighbors, with their spray-
warfare, kill the “goodies” as
well as the “baddies,” and the
“goodies,” who are on the job
all the time, cop the lot; while
the “baddies” just hop-in to do
their dirt between shootings.
The fruit-fly maggot is almost
indestructible. Resilient as
rubber under pressure, it can
coil itself into a loop and
spring a foot at a time away
from such dangers as fire. You
can destroy it only by boiling.
Spending nothing on poisons,
I am as free of the fly as it’s
possible to be, and owe this
comparative immunity to an
article I read about 20 years
ago in an American magazine.
The writer was a pear-
orchardist in a State celebrated
for generations for its pears.
Owing to encroaching house-
holders and their backyard
hatcheries, the crops went bad.
At first, the writer dutifully
obeyed the bureaucrats,
sprayed his trees faithfully
according to regulations and
ploughed and scarified between
and under the rows of trees,
all correctly numbered off
from the right as in the book.
But the bugs flourished on all
this human sweat. So he
decided to defy the desk-
wallahs and let his orchard go
back to Nature. After grass-
and weed-seeding, he scythed
the growth and left it, repeat-
ing the process each year.
Within two years he had a
thick mat of trash under each
tree, serving both as a mulch
and also as a refuge and larder
for great numbers of benevo-
lent insects —ants, beetles,
larval-parasites and other car-
nivorous creatures. A maggot-
or a fly-infested fruit dropping
on to a pad of rotting vege-
tation gave the scavengers time
to grab the grub before it could
wriggle down and burrow into
the earth for pupation. Pre-
viously the scarified earth had
allowed a dropping fruit to
place it at its own front-door,
invisibly.
This experiment proved
completely successful. Neigh-
bors followed suit, and within
a few years the district was
back to its original luscious
state. I have found the method
also completely successful, but,
in spite of the evidence of their
eyes, my neighbors still say that
it’s not what the man said on
the wireless!
W.A. Oat Yield
“Bolivar”: A record yield
of oats has almost certainlv
been obtained at the Western
Australian Government re-
search - station, Esperance,
from the Westralian - bred
variety, Avon, which gave a
return of 89.9 bushels an acre
in a trial-plot. In a larger
bulk-area, under ordinary
farming conditions, Avon gave
72 bushels to the acre, with a
certain amount of grain lost
through lodging.
Other varieties in the trial
were Fulmark, a N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture oat,
which gave the next-highest
yield at 76.6 bushels ; the mid-
season Westralian-bred Dale,
which yielded 62.8 bushels, and
that fine old standby of the
past, Algerian, which could
only produce 53.4 bushels.
The land on which the trial-
plots were grown was sown-
down to Bacchus Marsh and
subterranean clover in 1951
after having been cleared by
rolling and burning the
previous year. It had been
topdressed yearly with 1801 b.
of super .-copper-zinc, ploughed
in May last and sown in the
first week in June.
Meat Marketing in
N.S.W.
[From 3. \V. Bennett, chairman of
the N.S.W. meat-section, Aus-
tralian Primary Producers’ Union]
For some years farmers and
consumers alike have been dis-
satisfied with the system of
meat-marketing in N.S.W. They
have felt that the system gives
both a raw deal.
The farmer gets an inade-
quate return for his product
while the housewife has to pay
retail-prices for meat that
would encourage vegetari-
anism. The farmer, however,
has no say in the retail-price.
If he gets the equivalent of
Is. 3d. a pound for his lamb
on the hoof and the housewife
pays 4s. 6d. a pound or more
for her lamb-chops, all he can
do is to wonder.
The Australian Primary Pro-
ducers’ Union has been trying
to solve this problem for a long
time. It has been acutely aware
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(29/1/’59)
Heavy rains and widespread flooding are likely in
Queensland during February and March, with flooding worst
in the central and northern coastal areas and the central-
west and south-west districts.
General rains are indicated in N.S.W. during February,
with heavy falls on the North Coast, the northern table-
lands, n.-w. slopes and plains areas and part of the Hunter
River Valley. Moderate rain may occur in the coastal
districts during March, although rainfall may be patchy
elsewhere, with general rains in April.
General rains above average are probable in Victoria
during February, with reasonably good follow-on rains in
March. Rainfall may be patchy during late autumn and
winter.
The agricultural areas and n.-w. interior of South Aus-
tralia should receive moderate to heavy rains during
February, although rainfall may be poor elsewhere. Rain-
fall may also be poor in March.
Rainfall may be poor in Western Australia during
February, apart from reasonably good rains in the North
Kimberleys. Patchy rains below normal are indicated during
March, although the north-east and south-east areas should
receive good falls.
LENNOX WALKER.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
o
Offices:
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
of the fact that meat producers
must develop the home-market
to the utmost.
This means that they must
offer the consumer the best
quality product at the most
competitive price.
Early last year the A.P.P.U.
took the first step by asking
other primary-producer organi-
sations, including the Farmers
and Settlers’ Association, if
they would be prepared to meet
and discuss methods of selling
fat stock other than the present
saleyard auction system
particularly selling by weight
and grade and by live-weight,
as is done in other meat-pro-
ducing countries.
They felt that if all organisa-
tions of farmers and graziers
tackled the problem together
some workable plan could be
evolved. The Farmers and
Settlers’ Association has lately
conferred with three other
primary-producer organisations
on this very prblem.
All meat-producers will wel-
come the move by the Farmers
and Settlers’ Association and
hope that it will be a precursor
to an even more widely repre-
sented meeting of farmers to
discuss this highly important
subject.
Blowfly Control
“Big Billy”: In any planned
control-programme the car-
dinal point is correct tail-length.
The tail should be cut level
with the tip of the vulva, leav-
ing a flap of bare skin on the
under-surface to heal over the
stump.
The next step is mulesing,
which is easier to do on freshly
shorn or crutched sheep. The
aim should be to stretch the
bare area under the tail, and
so keep the wool away from
the moisture. A dry skin in the
crutch-area means virtual
elimination of strike. One
crutching a year is essential to
keep the wool short and the
animal as clean as possible.
Jetting is worth while in a
season when there are long
spells of humidity. It gives
added protection against both
body- and crutch-strike and is
also useful when an owner
wants to go away for a break
or to get on with other work
without having to inspect his
flock through a bad fly-period.
Instead, dieldrin or diazinon is
the answer.
But jetting isn’t a cure-all.
It’s only a necessary adjunct
to the points enumerated above
and, as a result is more effec-
tive. It will give double pro-
tection—four to six weeks on
unmulesed weaners and 10-12
weeks on mulesed weaners —
and if all these points are taken
heed of, will offset any break-
down in resistance to insecti-
cides.
San Jose Scale
“North”: The San Jose scale
(Aspidiolus perniciosus ) men-
tioned by “Spin” (B. 31/12/ ’SB)
is the worst scale-insect pest
that the grower of deciduous
fruit-trees has to contend with.
I< will attack all common
species, sucking the sap from
the host-trees and weakening
them, so that heavy infestation
will cause much damage.
Every part of the trees are
attacked: trunk, limbs, leaves
and fruit. A pink or deep-red
discoloration on the leaves and
fruit shows that the insects are
present.
When young, the male insect
is protected by a scale. This is
discarded as the insect matures,
and develops a single pair of
wings. The female retains
her protection and, after
mating, gives birth to living
young, which shelter under her
scale for a short time. They
eventually find a suitable
feeding-place and fasten them-
selves to the spot chosen,
where they form the protecting
scale and lose their legs. The
San Jose scale .multiplies very
rapidly, and, unless spraying is
undertaken at the correct time,
the bark of the affected trees
soon becomes masses of
greyish-brown scale.
Winter, when the trees are
dormant, is the correct time to
take control-measures, as then
there is no danger of the spray
damaging the young leaf-buds.
The best remedy is red oil,
used at the strength of I gal.
oil to 20gal. water. This will
also control the red mite,
which feeds on the leaves and
turns them pale yellow. Lime-
sulphur is another satisfactory
spray for this scale pest, if
applied at the strength of 1 gal.
spray to lOgal. water.
Branding Pigs
“Windy”: Grading inspec-
tors at bacon-factories are con-
cerned at the number of pig
carcasses damaged by careless
branding—a heavy hand with
the hot iron causes unsightly
scars that show-up when the
carcass is dressed. Although
there’s no law to stop a pig-
grower from branding his
his pigs with a hot iron,
the graders point out that the
grower has to know what he
is doing when he takes the
brand out of the fire and that
it is essential to use a copper
brand. Heat it just enough to
leave a clear brand without
excessively burning the flesh,
and lay it on lightly.
All graders agree that the
body-tattoo is out on its own
for branding pigs. These are
not expensive and with care
will last a lifetime. The main
thing is to keep the needles
clean —points that are clogged
up with caked ink or hair will
not leave a clear brand. Put
the numerals and letters in the
correct way. It is very easy to
reverse them or put them in up-
side down ; the best way to
check this is to try the tattoo
on a piece of paper after it has
been fixed in the holder.
Most body-tattoos are placed
on the top of the shoulder, just
below the neck. When the car-
cass is dressed, the numerals
or letters will be easy to read
if the tattoo is properly applied
in the first place.
It is important not to mess
around while applying the
tattoo. Make sure the pig is in
a position where it cannot
move about too much. Then,
with a firm sharp blow, apply
the tattoo to both shoulders
high up.
Tattoo-ink can be bought at
most stores which deal in
veterinary instruments. Many
pig-raisers use stove-polish,
either as a paste or liquid. Any
reliable brand of stove-polish
will leave a clear brand that
will last, provided the needles
are well covered just before
the tattoo is applied and were
clean before being covered
with the stain.
Ear-tattoos give good results
also, but are liable to be
damaged if the pig gets an ear
ripped during a fight or in a
scuffle with a barbed-wire
fence. All in all, the body-
tattoo wins by several lengths.
Export Cheese
“Myall”: The Australian
Cheese Manufacturers’ Federa-
tion is making a bid to increase
the sales of cheese in the
United Kingdom. Within the
next few weeks, about seven
tons of rindless cheddar cheese
are to be sent as an experi-
mental shipment. The cheese
is now being prepared at fac-
tories on Queensland’s Darling
Downs, under the supervision
of a technologist from the
Agricultural Department.
The cheese is being packed
in 401 b. rectangular blocks,
sealed in plastic packaging-
material in a heated press, in
individual pine boxes.
Rindless cheese, packed in
plastic film, has been on the
market in Queensland for some
time. It is popular with house-
wives, but, so far, has not been
exported from the State.
For over 70 years cheddar
cheese has been exported in
double crates, each containing
two 801 b. cheeses. The dis-
advantages of this method were
that wastage was caused by the
formation of rind, the cheese
lost weight through drying-out,
and its surface often showed
mould-growth. Cracked rind
and “rind-rot” were other
common blemishes, which
depreciated the market-value.
Later, export cheeses were
coated with a special wax. This
was an improvement, but the
new method of packing is
better. It enhances the appear-
ance of the cheese and also
eliminates rind-wastage and
shrinkage.
American surplus stocks of
cheese in the United Kingdom
have been reduced, so the out-
look for the new rindless pack
seems bright.


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world-ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
An article on the birth of Henry
Lawson, which appeared during the
early ’twenties either in “New Idea ’
or “Aussie.” —6789.
Copy of Three Essays o‘n Religion,
by J. S. Mill, pub. 1874 by Long-
mans. —6790.
To buy The Spartan, by Caroline
Dale Suedekev, published, I think,
in 1912 by Doubleday in the U.S.A.
—6791.
Copy of Farm Accounts, at one
time published by The Bulletin.—
6792.
The Old Boys’ Union of the
Marist Brothers’ High School
(Maitland) is trying to trace approxi-
mately 4000 ex-students who
attended the school during the past
60 years. The committee of the
union is anxious to secure as many
names as possible to fill-up the
name-rolls, damaged beyond recog-
nition in the 1955 flood. Old Boys
are asked to send their names and
addresses to Paul Maher, 28 Rox-
burgh Street, Lorn, Maitland,
N.S.W.
Information Supplied
The present address of G. F.
Sanders (B. 21 /1 /’59) is “Apple-
garth,” Oxley Avenue, Woody
Foint, Queensland.
Information Sought
Brief explanation of atomic-
energy ?
An atom is the smallest particle
in which elements will combine
with themselves or each other, and
consists of a small, heavy nucleus
surrounded by a region in which
electrons move like planets round
the sun, but on a microscopic scale.
Rutherford in 1919 achieved atomic
changes leading to further experi-
ments and the discovery of the
neutron, a minute particle which,
in collision with a nucleus, releases
great energy. Neutrons can be
obtained only b*y the breakdown
ol nuclei. It was next discovered
that a nucleus of uranium (the
heaviest atom) could be bom-
barded with a neutron, causing it to
split in two and releasing enormous
energy. This nuclear fission is an
example of the conversion of
matter into energy. In addition
to the energy, from one to three
neutrons are released; it was seen
that if these would carry on bom-
barding other nuclei a “chain” effect
would occur, with terrific results.
The energy released per fission of
a uranium nucleus is about 200-
million electron volts. The high-
speed neutrons emitted have
velocities of thousands of miles
per second.
To use atomic-energy for con-
structive (power) purposes, slow-
speed neutrons under control are
employed; in the case of bombs
high-speed neutrons are needed to
“ We've made pretty good time, Bill —today must be Friday."
build-up tremendous energy before
the bomb bursts. If all the atoms
of a kilogram of one form of
uranium undergo fission the energy
released equals that in an explosion
cf about 17,500 tons of T.N.T.
* * * *
Origin of the term “freelance”?
Originally a soldier who fought as
a mercenary for anyone who would
pay him for his services. The
term is now applied to a journalist,
writer, artist or photographer who
works for newspapers or periodi-
cals, but not on the regular staff.
The term is occasionally applied in
politics and other spheres to any
person not allied to any party.
* * * *
Some details of the new stereo'-
pk.onic-sound radiograms ?
Principally, the difference between
standard radiograms and the new
stereophonic type is that in a
standard type the loudspeaker (or
loudspeakers) is in a central posi-
tion ; therefore the sound issues
Pom one particular point. In
stereo, two separately placed inter-
connected speakers are used; under
the right conditions the listener is
aware of a “spread” of sound, and,
in pieces like piano-concertos, the
solo instrument tends to transmit
from the auxiliary speaker. In
orchestral works, stereo reproduces
both the sound and the exact
playing-positions of each instru-
ment or group of instruments.
Violins tend to come from the
left-hand speaker; woodwinds from
both, but with more accent on the
middle —at times it is possible to
hear sounds coming from the centre,
where, in fact, there is no speaker
at all.
Depending on the distance each
speaker is from the other, listeners
should sit at least that distance
away from the centre of the speaker-
unit. For instance, assuming the
speakers are 4ft. from each other,
listeners should sit 4ft. distant. The
minimum distance between speakers
should be around 3ft. 6in. Anything
less tends to diminish the stereo
effect. Special records for the
new medium are being marketed;
anyone with a standard radiogram
who wishes to convert to stereo can
do it for about £4O. Stereo pick-ups
w'ill play all types of microgroove
recordings; monaural disks actually
sound better on the stereo system.
* * * •
When was Halley’s comet last
visible from the earth ?
At its last return Halley’s comet
y/as discovered photographically in
September, 1909. W. E. Raymond
observed, it at Sydney Observatory
in November, 1909. It was visible
to the naked eye for some weeks
in the first half of 1910. The next
icturn is expected about 1985.
* * * *
(1) How to tan kangaroo-skins
for rugs, mats, etc. ? (2) How to
tan them for leather ?
(1) Wash the skins, remove any
pieces of flesh and fat, and trim
roughly round edges. Rinse well in
cold water and hang up to drain.
Make a tanning mixture of 12oz.
alum and Boz. salt in 4gal. boiling
water; mix 41b. flour to a smooth
paste with a little cold water, and
whip it into the salt-and-alum mix-
ture when the latter has cooled.
Stir well and make the whole up
to lgal. by adding water. Spread
out the skins and paint them liber-
ally on the flesh side with the
tanning mixture, fold over and leave
them for a day. Repeat for three
days in cold weather, or four days
in hot weather, then allow the
skins to dry out. Rub well with
pumice, and, if dry or hard, rub
in neatsfoot-oil in small quantities,
working well in the hands until the
skins are pliable. Brush out the
fur, trim the edges and line if
required.
(2) Soak in cold water, drain
and place in a dehairing bath made
up as follows: Into lOgals. water
put 31b. hydrated lime, let stand
for an hour, then place the skins
in the bath and lift over twice
daily for eight days, when the fur
should be easily removed with a
blunt knife. Next, put the skins
in a neutralising bath of warm
water to which has been added 41b.
formic-acid to every 1001 b. skins;
move about occasionally in the
liquid, leave overnight, then add
41b. boracic-acid to every 1001 b.
skins and drain them after soaking
for 20mins. When well drained
(but before becoming quite dry)
spread out the skins and tan them
by the process given for the mats.
* * * *
Details of the Marie Celeste
mystery? What are the most,
popular theories regarding it ?
On December 5, 1872, the British
barque Dei Gratia, in lat. 38.20 N.,
long. 17.15 W., near the Straits of
Gibraltar, found the American
brigantine Marie Celeste deserted.
The ship was sound, and no boats
were missing. On the table in the
main cabin was a half-eaten meal.
The ship’s papers were missing, and
the log had not been written-up
during the previous 10 days. The
tragedy has been attributed to sea-
serpents or giant squid; another
explanation is that the captain,
while mentally deranged, put the
watch on deck into irons and threw
them into the sea, and then, sword
in hand, chased the rest of the
crew overboard and followed them
with his wife and child. Later,
documents allegedly written by one
Abel Fosdyk were made public;
Fosdyk claimed to have been steward
in the Marie Celeste. He said the
ship’s carpenter had rigged a
wooden platform in the bows as a
playground for the captain’s child.
On the morning of the disaster the
captain, who was unbalanced.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
C lncorporated, by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £81,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with th'
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
attempted . to swim fully-clothed
around the ship, accompanied by
the mate, while all on board
watched from the platform. This
structure collapsed, and those on it
fell into the sea. Meanwhile, as
sharks accounted' for some in the
water, the ship's sails filled, leaving
the rest to drown. Fosdyk alone
managed to cling to the floating
platform, and struggled ashore on
the north-west coast of Africa.
* * * *
How did (1) Sans Souci and (2)
Sutherland—both Sydney—get their
names ?
(1) It was at first known as
Rocky Point, but the name of
Thomas Holt’s homestead at the
point was adopted later. Holt had
taken the name (which is French
for “without care”) from one of
the estates of the King of Prussia.
(2) The naming of this place is
explained in Captain Cook’s diary.
The entry reads: “Ist May, 1770. —
Last night departed this life Forby
Sutherland, seaman, who died of
consumption, and in the a.m. his
body was interred ashore at the
watering-place. This circumstance
occasioned my calling the south
point of this bay Sutherland’s
Point.”
Brief Answers
M.N.G.: The Fleet Air Arm of
the Royal Australian Navy consists
of four front-line squadrons, one
operational carrier (H.M.A.S. Mel-
bourne) and one naval air-station
(H.M.A.S. Albatross, at Nowra,
N.S.W.). The aircraft-carrier Mel-
bourne, fitted with an angled deck
and steam catapult, carries three
squadrons of aircraft, including
Gannet turbo-prop for anti-
submarine operations and jet Sea
Venom all-weather fighters and
ground-attack aircraft... .M.E.K.:
It is not necessary to have a
reference-book, such as the one you
describe, to write paragraphs. In
any case, the material from that
book would have rather limited
appeal; its chief value would be
quaintness. Far better, in para-
graph writing, to concentrate on
topical things; the passing parade
of people and events. And writing
paragraphs is invaluable as a pre-
lude to attempting, say, short-
Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.
Claims which state the
section in which paragraphs
appear and the date of
appearance will be paid more
promptly than those which
don’t.
stories, since a paragraph requires
a minimum of words and maximum
of interest... .8.H.: The Year
Book of the Commonwealth of
Australia is obtainable from the
Government Printer, Canberra,
A. or from the Commonwealth
Sub-Treasury in each capital city;
in your case, Melbourne... .E.T. :
A sale netting “100 p.c. profit” is
one in which the article cost noth-
ing and no expenses were incurred
in selling. A “profit of 100 p.c.”
means that selling-price was double
cost-price... .R.J.H.: (1) No. (2)
An idea is not saleable, but a
patent embodying an idea is an
industrial property and saleable at
a price arranged between patentee
and buyer or licensee... .S.G.:
Use boiled linseed-oil of good
quality. If it has been standing
long, it may have become covered
with a dry skin, which should be
removed and- not worked-up with
the brush. When putting on the
first coat, a little turpentine may
be added as a drier and to spread
the oil for quick penetration....
D.F.: Unable to discover anything
either of the man or his b00k....
B. : No objection, provided your
handwriting is clear and the lines
well spaced W.M.: Contact the
Society of Australian Genealogists,
Lanark House, Phillip Street,
Sydney C.L.: It seems in-
credible; however, if you’re abso-
lutely sure of your facts you should
see a solicitor.
THE HOLLIDAYS
BY MIDDY
“This MUST go on record—our first 'kill'!"
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
G.F.: Yes, but the dialogue is
thin. The plot itself wasn't bad.
... .T.R.: Her Bermuda-shorts
sounded all right... .A.D.: They
all talk too loudly. Even the dog
“yelped stridently as he charged
across the lawn”. ...P.8.: Well, the
main fault is that you go on and
on when everything that needs to
be said has been said... .G.N.: Try
for more clarity; avoid as far as
possible using words ending in
“-ment” and “-tion”... .F.D.:
Don’t blow-up a mere sketch to
short-story proportions... T.C.C.:
It has the virtue of brevity, but
tends to read rather chunkily....
E.W.: A thought in the second
stanza... .D.T.: It has an un-
pleasant tang of sectarianism....
F.R.: Nice to learn that King’s
Cross-is really a most respectable
place... .G.E.: Your intrepid
space-man has blasted-off —home-
wards. .. .H.H.: "Would you con-
sider a story which, while having
its genesis in my imagination, never-
theless strikes me as a living
account?” Duly considered; ver-
dict: as an account, it’s overdrawn.
. ...J.T.: The real-estate agent
added little to what there was of
the action... .A.P.: Your wrangling
family is peacefully at rest in the
basket... .8.V.: Seeps out like
morning-tea... .K.H.F.: Vaguely
(and dangerously) leminiscent of
Stevenson... .P.S.: Muddled from
beginning to end....W.H.: Flard
to suggest where to send it, but it
needs drastic overhauling... .S.R.:
Give it an Australian setting, and
let the characters speak for them-
selves... .LJ.: No nightmares,
please... .C.L.: Vinegary old
matron politely but firmly bundled
0ff.... A.N.G.: The thought is faint
but genuine. Trouble is, most of
them exist as shadows rather than
flesh-and-blood people N.T.:
Suggest you send the story about
the Chicago underworld to Chicago.
... .P.P.: Put it in a cool, dark
place for about 20 years; then
reduce it to half its present size.
....1.R.: The idea was good; you
started to plunge out of orbit in
the development section, and the
climax was almost an anticlimax.
. ...L.F.: Promising if you’re less
than 20 years old.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
The committee organising the two
gala-performances of “My Fair Lady”
has every right to be proud of its efforts.
On both nights Her Majesty’s Theatre
was booked-out - no mean feat with
tickets at £lO, £5 and £2 each. And a
lot of the credit for the successful dis-
posal of tickets goes to Messrs. Dooley
and Burton, who did a valiant job. Four
organisations shared the profits: the
Royal Women’s Hospital, Royal
Children’s Hospital, Yooralla Crippled
Children’s Appeal and the National Trust.
Just before the curtain rose on the first
gala-performance in the presence of the
Governor and Lady Brooks, actress
Googie Withers opened the Yooralla
Appeal for Crippled Children. And at
the conclusion of the second performance,
at which film-stars Ava Gardner,
Gregory Peck (and his wife), Fred
Astaire, Tony Perkins and Donna Reed
were present, Lady Tait, chairman of
the organising-committee, announced that
the two performances had raised £13,000.
Lady,. Brooks wore a short frock of
white re-embroidered lace, the pattern
of the lace outlined with sequins; a
floating back-panel of white tulle high-
lighted the short sheath-skirt. Lady Tait,
who with Sir Frank welcomed the vice-
regal party, wore long, gold satin gloves
with her Empire-line frock of cream
guipure-lace. Mrs. Henry Bolte’s short
frock of pale-waterlily-green satin had
sequins in the folds of the deep, square
neckline. President of the Royal Women’s
Hospital, Miss Kathleen Syme, chose a
formal gown of pale-green satin patterned
in cherry-red, gold, blue and green. Lady
Murdoch, president of the Royal
Children’s Hospital (she was responsible
for the lovely floral decorations in the
dress-circle foyer) wore a full-length
gown of sapphire-blue silk. Mrs. J. A.
Seitz, Yooralla’s president, was in pale-
blue shot-moire taffeta. With the presi-
dent of the National Trust, Sir Daryl
Lindsay, was Lady Lindsay, whose short
frock was of emerald-green taffeta.
Mrs. Ken Luke’s white satins were
embroidered in a design of silver beads
and rhinestones. Lady Allison’s choice
was a gown of oyster-satin, Mrs. Bill
McGowan’s short full frock was of white
linen, heavily corded and embroidered
with clusters of sequins. Mrs. Tom
Carlyon’s short frock of white silk
patterned in a Parma-violet design
featured a peacock-hem.
☆ ☆ ☆
The newest addition to this city’s cul-
ture, the Sidney Myer Music Bowl, set in
lovely gardens close to Government
House, was given its informal try-out with
a recital by the R.A.A.F. Central Band.
Mr. Ken Myer, chairman of the Sidney
Myer Charity Trust (from which came
the money to build the bowl) and his
mother, Mrs. Sidney Baillieu Myer, were
there, when the audience was composed
of employee’s from the Myer Emporium.
The bowl will be officially opened to-
morrow (February 12) by Prime Minister
Menzies.
Shirl Conway, here to star in “Auntie
Marne,” is not only an actress of rare
charm and personality, but also a
sparkling conversationalist, with a mind
as sharp as a tack. Starting-off with a
pre-med. course, she went into speech-
craft, graduating into play-readings and
then poetry-readings over the radio. In
modelling work she was acclaimed the
best “Red Book” cover-girl. Later Shirl
joined Eddie Cantor in “Banjo Eyes” and
had a supporting-role in “Pal Joey” In
1954-55 she won the Theatre World
Award for the best actress on Broadway.
Writing articles for the press is another
of her accomplishments. Photo by John
Warlow.
“The Silken Touch” was the title
Makower Mcßeath and Co., of Flinders
Lane, gave to a collection of fashions
designed to tell next summer’s print-
story. The fabrics used were Shansi pure-
silks, Rondelle (an acetate pongee with
a silky finish) Silkissa (a fine-filament
rayon), Maklon (a tiny-bubble nylon),
the well-known Coolabah-cotton, and
Dream Sheen cotton-satin. Gay, colorful
and sometimes exotic, the designs were
printed by Silk and Textile Printers, Ltd.,
of Hobart, and compare more than
favorably with overseas fabric-designs.
A floral swimsuit in Coolabah-cotton
was highlighted by a beach-wrap in palest
chiffonyl which featured a hem of the
material used to make the swimsuit.
Another beach outfit, ideal for Portsea,
Palm Beach or Surfers’ Paradise, com-
prised a hat, beach-coat and swimsuit in
Coolabah-cotton, all having pink tulips
printed on a white background. Blossom
was the name given to a matron’s frock in
Maklon.
The fabric was pink printed with grey
flowers ; the skirt was finely pleated, and
the draped bodice had three-quarter
sleeves.
Shansi Sheen was used for a short
evening-frock. This fabric was in a
natural shade, boldly printed with bright-
blue roses. With it went a coat in bright-
blue duchess-satin lined with silk-taffeta.
A short evening-frock combined two
shades of pink chiffonyl the bouffant
skirt was pale-pastel, with deep-rose
draped on the skirt just above the hem.
To allow spectators to see the material
by the piece, a slim girl masked and wear-
ing black tights and a leotard, was draped
with the material.
☆ ☆ ☆
Melbourne Grammar School Chapel
was the setting for the marriage of
Dorothy Teresa, eldest daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. W. R. Webber, of Devonport
(Tas.), with John Douglas Raleigh,
eldest son of Dr. and Mrs. G. R. Weigall,
of Toorak. The bride’s gown of white
Swiss cotton had a V-necked bodice and
three-quarter sleeves, and the skirt fell
into a slight train. Her veil was elbow-
length, and she carried a sheaf of golden
roses. Her two sisters, Sylvia and
Margaret, were bridesmaids. Their short
individual frocks featured the harem-
skirt. Sylvia’s was of jade-green taffeta
shot with silver-green, Margaret’s of
Ming-blue taffeta shot with green. Each
wore a bandeau of the material at the
back of her hair. Their bouquets were
of aratum-lilies. lan Reid was best man
and Richard Weigall, the bridegroom’s
brother, was groomsman. Reception
was held at Myoora, Toorak.
☆ ☆ ☆
One of the highlights of the Moomba
Festival will be the Book Fair, which
will be officially opened in the Lower
Town Hall on March 11 by the High
Commissioner for India (Mr. A. Menon);
it will close on March 14. Each night
a new book will be featured, including
Judith Wright’s Generation of Men, one
by Cyril Pearl and a volume of poetry
and woodcuts by Sir Lionel Lindsay.
There will also be an information-desk
where questions on Australian literature
will be answered. To discuss plans for
the Book Fair’s projection, authoress
Bertha Johnstone was hostess at a buffet
dinner-party given in her Elsternwick
home, when she wore a frock (which
she had bought in Paris) of hibiscus-pink
silk-organza which had a pleated sleeve-
less bodice trimmed with matching
sequins and a harem-line skirt. Among
the guests were Alan Nicholls, Mr. and
Mrs. Syd Courtier, Georgia Rivers,
Kathleen Dalziell, TV personality Mitta
Hamilton, Bernard Cronin, Dr. Andrew
Fabinyi (president of the Australian Book
Fair Council), Evan Pincus (he will
manage the Moomba Book Fair), Dr.
F. Doczy and Mrs. Pat Moger.


SYDNEY
This is the season of the year when
people, having pleasantly weathered the
school holidays in beach - house or
weekender, return to town and plunge
into the social life of the city. Or,
rather, they don’t exactly plunge ; they
set a tentative toe in, as it were, and
then gradually wade in. It won’t be
until Easter that they could really be
said to be in the swim.
However, they attended in respectable
numbers the various functions of this
hot and humid week. There was a great
show of glamorous short evening-frocks
at the gala-preview of Moira Lister’s
recital in aid of the Royal Blind Society.
Anzac House, where it was held, has a
beautiful foyer well adapted for meetings
and greetings and viewing the fashions.
In fact, from Hyde Park opposite, the
foyer, with its plate-glass wall, looked like
a huge shop-window with animated
mannequins rather engaging. The
Governor and Lady Woodward (attended
by Miss Diana Snider) were present at
the gala.
☆ ☆ ☆
The airiest function of the week (this
is not a pun) was that held by the Sydney
Symphony Orchestral Committee at the
Woollahra home of its president, Lady
Lloyd Jones, in honor of the American
conductor Alfred Wallenstein and Mrs.
Wallenstein, and American pianist Andor
Foldes and Mrs. Foldes. The party
spread out from the veranda to the
garden, which from its eminence catches
the fresh sea-breeze, so that the humidity
lost its terrors. Mr. Wallenstein is known
as “The Maestro of the Hollywood
Bowl,” and is going on to Melbourne
to perform at the opening of the Sidney
Myer Bowl.
F ☆ ☆
There were nearly 300 guests at the
reception given by the Royal Common-
wealth Society for the Duke and Duchess
of Argyll. They were welcomed by the
society’s president, Mr. Ivan Black,
M.L.A., and Lady Berryman (who wore
a sack, cream patterned with green —“so
cool,” she commented). The Duchess,
who is rather grave and reserved, a
brunette with well-marked features and
large eyes, was hatless and wore a dress
of white Swiss cotton with a satin stripe.
Saw Miss Margaret Gillespie at this
reception. She is now a member of the
board of the Elizabethan Theatre and is
off to Melbourne shortly to see “My Fair
Lady.”
☆ ☆ ☆
There was also a large gathering at the
A.C.I. ballroom to see the Paris autumn
fashions organised in aid of the Sydney
Day Nursery and Nursery Schools’
Association. The president of the com-
mittee, Mrs. H. H. McNall, introduced
the French Ambassador, M. Sivan, who
opened the show. Of the shaggy, tweedy,
bulky coats which were shown one
woman remarked, “You know, it’s only
inside a coat like that that one can
really lead a life of one’s own these days,
isn’t it?”
☆ ☆ ☆
Film-stars are flitting round Sydney in
some numbers at present. Ava Gardner’s
flying visits caused some comment, and
Anne Baxter, who has just finished her
part in the filming of “The Summer of
the 17th Doll,” has established herself
as a doll of some wit and perception.
One of her colorful phrases, picked up
from a TV appearance, makes the quote
of the week: “As I see it, Australia is
just a fruit-cake of creative talent at the
moment.”
Many farewell parties are being
arranged for Margot Thatcher, of
Bellevue Hill, who with her mother,
Mrs. F. Thatcher, leaves for England in
the Orcades on February 17. Dress-
designing is Margot’s hobby, and she
hopes by practical experience gained
during her trip abroad to make it her
career when she returns. Photo by Norton
Trevaire.
Mrs. Iney L. Marden, M.8.E., who is
president of the Courtesy Circle, has
arranged a large party to attend the
Empire Theatre, where “Many Happy
Returns” is featuring many of the old
favorite entertainers. Among the 130 who
are going on this special occasion will
be Mrs. Florence Taylor, 0.8. E., and
Lady Hallstrom, members of the
Courtesy Circle, and groups from various
women’s organisations. A bouquet of
flowers will be presented to Gladys Mon-
crieff at the matinee as she is patron of
the Courtesy Circle and the party is in
her honor.
☆ ☆ ☆
That laborers and apparent “rough-
necks” make some of the best drivers,
while school-teachers and other profes-
sional men are poor, is reported as being
the finding of our Police Department
testing-officers this week.
This makes good reading for all those
poor women whose husbands try to teach
them to drive, for almost invariably such
husbands conclude that the wives are
“absolute idiots.” The answer-, of course,
is, “I’m too intelligent to be a good
driver. It has been found that school-
teachers, etc.”
Even the best of husbands seldom
make good teachers for their wives.
Why? Mainly because they don’t know
how to give instructions. Where a
driving-school man of our acquaintance
would say: “A little steadier on the gas,
mate,” a husband will say: “Hey, hey,
stop that!” When, after going through
the actions of a one-man band, one has
brought the car to a halt and asked:
“Why did I have to stop?” he replies, “I
didn't mean stop the car. I meant stop
accelerating.”
Another reason for a husband’s lack
of success as a teacher is that he hasn’t
control of the car, as a professional
instructor has (with the extra set of
pedals). No matter how foolish a move
one makes, the pro. can correct it and so
he is relaxed. But a husband, seated
in the suicide-seat beside an unskilled
driver, feels like a man who has to
instruct a person how to fire a gun that
is pointed at him. That’s why he panics,
and no wonder.
The third reason for the husband’s
lack of patience in teaching his wife to
drive is that it is generally his car that
is being practised on. The school has a
number of cars well-conditioned to being
handled by amateurs, and it is taken for
granted that they will have a short life
and a rough one. But the family-car is
to be cherished, so that every time the
clutch comes up too suddenly the'broken
axle appears in a vision to the car’s
owner, and every time the gears grate
harshly he shudders at the thought of a
wrecked gear-box. He becomes dis-
traught, of course, and wonders (aloud)
how his wife can be such an “absolute
idiot,” and then she replies: “I’m too
intelligent to be a good driver.” And
this is where we came in.
☆ ☆ *
The latest hairstyle, “Prediction,” is
based on the lines of the styles worn in
“My Fair Lady” and “Gigi,” though it
is to be worn short and tapered close to
the head at the back. This was revealed
during the week by Mr. Robert Shergis,
Australian president of the International
Coiffure de Dames. The style has width
and fullness with “wings” at the side and
a high swirl at the top of the head. The
whole effect is very soft and feminine.
The new colors for the hair, said Mr.
Shergis, are based on the red tones —
pink, copper and plum—and he added
that no well-dressed woman on the Con-
tinent would dream of wearing her hair
in its natural shade. She has it tinted
its “day” color and then adds variety
by means of pressure-pack sprays for
glamorous evening occasions. “Frosting”
is another new idea ; it bleaches a certain
number of hairs through the hair-do, just
a suggestion of frosting, which shows-up
only when the light catches the white bits.
And the Americans do “reverse frosting,”
which bleaches the whole hair and dyes
the stranded sections black.


List” in which one may read how
“On October 19, 1914, at Glenorie,
Gordon Miller saw what he believed
to be a Bustard in flight. The time
was 7 a.m., and it was a period of
strong westerly winds and severe dust-
storms from the inland.”
The book is not intended to replace
Cayley but rather to supplement that
invaluable work—in fact, to help in
identification, references are given to
the appropriate Cayley color-plates.
It will help the County of Cumberland
bird-watcher to identify his birds more
quickly and also to know what birds
he may expect to see, whether the
steadfast local inhabitants, the
migrants or such delightful strays as
the green pygmy-goose (supposed to
have been sighted, and shot, at Botany
Bay in 1909) or the bustards buzzing
over at 7 o’clock on a dusty, westerly
morning.
Prison Reformer
In his Alexander Maeonochie of
Norfolk Island (0.U.P., Melbourne)
Mr. Justice John Vincent Barry, of
Victoria’s Supreme Court, has become
counsel for the defence of a pioneer
penologist from charges of being an
intriguer, a nuisance, a false-alarm, an
impractical idealist, etc.
Maconochie, born M’Konochie, of
Edinburgh, was a midshipman chosen
to accompany Admiral Cochrane on a
visit to Nelson’s Victory a few months
before Trafalgar; he was two years a
prisoner-of-war of Napoleon; he saw
service with the Navy in assaults on
Washington and New Orleans; and
was paid-off as Commander, known
as Captain, in 1815. He wrote on Naval
matters, married in 1822, took a farm
in Fife, moved to London in 1828 and
became first secretary of the Geo-
graphical Society of London, in 1830,
and from 1833 to 1836 was first Pro-
fessor of Geography at University
College, London.
So that he was 50 on page 22, where
Barry really opens his case with the
arrival of Maconochie and his family
in Van Dieman’s Land in 1837; secre-
tary to the new Lieutenant-Governor,
Sir John Franklin; the secretaryship
being merely an accommodation-title
until a riper plum could be found for
him in the colony. But the convict-
system, which was to Franklin merely
an administrative job, was to Maco-
nochie a horrible disgrace. He wrote
reports on it to his chief; Franklin
circulated them among Tasmanian
authorities, but then, tired of the run-
around of yes-yes and no-no, Maco-
nochie more-or-less insisted on the
good-natured Franklin, who was his
friend, sending his reports and letters
associated with them to London
That was all very well, but by a
complication of departmental detail
the reports were printed as Parlia-
mentary papers—probably because
suited members of the Select Com-
mittee on Transportation—and when
the English newspapers reached Tas-
mania, with indignation over the dis-
closures and criticisms of Tasmanian
officials, Franklin had no alternative
but to dismiss Maconochie.
Maconochie spent a year or so of
leisure writing and publishing
“Thoughts on Convict Management,”
“Supplement to ‘Thoughts on Convict
Management,’ ” etc. In 1838 the Select
Committee in London came out for his
point of view: transportation to N.S.W.
was to end in 1840; and Lord
Normanby wrote to the Governor of
N.S.W., Sir George Gipps, suggesting
that Norfolk Island be reorganised and
Maconochie put in charge.
Gipps made the appointment, and
Maconochie went to Norfolk Island
early in 1840, and by May 25, with
the unheard-of, stultifying innovation
of a dinner-party with rum and a
theatrical performance, to celebrate the
Queen’s birthday, he had set fire to the
indignation of the Australian colonists
and British administrators, who
immediately began to work for his
dismissal.
In instituting his marks-system,
Maconochie found it difficult to
separate the doubly-convicted old-
hands from the new convicts from
N.S.W.; and so, by June of 1840, he
had provoked a statement from Gipps:
.whether the system of punish-
ment heretofore pursued at Norfolk
Island was good or bad is not the
question; it was a system which
caused transportation to that settle-
ment to be held in great and salutary
dread by the convict population of
New South Wales, and to destroy
that dread before any substitute for
transportation to Norfolk Island had
been devised would be to expose
this colony to risks for which he
cannot make himself responsible.”
To this administrative and official
theory, every stretch a horror-stretch,
the prisoner bashed to oblivion to
encourage the others, or worked to
death as reparation to the society
against which he had offended,
Maconochie opposed the theory of
prison as a means of reforming the
criminal with marks for good behavior,
team-work and useful occupations to
encourage personal responsibility;
book-reading, play-acting and all
leading to remission of sentence for
good behavior and ultimate enlarge-
ment.
By the end of his second year they
had decided to recall him; but it was
not until early 1844 that he was super-
ceded by Major Childs of the Marines.
And here the reader’s sympathies go
not so much to Maconochie but to the
convicts; encouraged for a few years to
come out and state their problems to. a
man who wouldn’t listen to them if
they cringed; given a fair deal if they
played fair and a reasonable hope for
TWO POEMS FOR AN
AUSTRALIAN SUMMER
I
Jack the sated snail slides down the bean,
The tall stalks of the sugar-peas
Yellow into straw, and the daisies
Blaze into anger from their beds of green.
The cold nasturtium dies beneath its leaf
Ashamed of being weak beneath the pride
Of goldenrods that bend to their own tide
In their own season, the sun their chief.
In the drying time Nature and man
Come to a testing less pitiful than flame,
Both harder and kinder, in a scheme
Of turning flesh and flower to sand.
Now blue is death, hot brown is peace
While time on balls of burning feet
Shimmers a track of days through heat,
No thought existing that summer ends its
lease.
Gibber and snake have come to terms
With life suspended in a lifeless land,
While leathered man and the soursob,
corms
Defy their natures, proud not to under-
stand.
II
Now on the bough hangs the almond
tenuous,
A dry shell ready for burial in dead grass.
North, cattle stamp; after long over-
landing
Skinny as rakes, and in Belsen-eyed dis-
tress.
No kiss parts lips that are sealed as a
letter;
Summer is in the heat, its humming end-
less in the mind
Not as a dead and dying time, but as
time the better
For a dry passion, coolness unremem-
bered behind.
Now to be explorers in the testing season !
As for Eyre and Sturt the world blazes
empty and clean
Between sky and foot; there is no cool
reason
Why love should survive, die, or have
been
Save by the sinews we force across the
land
And by our will to see the sun boil down
On fancies of sinking in bone-hills of
sand,
Face down, long-old, with outstretched
hand.
S.A.
MAX HARRIS.


the future suddenly they were
plunged back into the night of the lash
(25,000 in 16 months), solitary confine-
ment without light and the tortures of
the “tube-gag,” and the “scavenger’s
daughter” (“in which men’s heads
were bent to their knees, and they were
trussed and left in that position”).
This really did produce a bit of horror-
publicity, when William Westwood, the
bushranging “Jacky-Jacky” of Slessor’s
poem, led an uprising and battered
some jailers to death with the express
purpose of getting himself hanged for
it —and, indeed, within seven weeks,
17 men were hanged for it.
So, with such correct prison-values
restored, Maconochie returned to Eng-
land to campaign for his theories, and
to take-over the governorship of
Birmingham jail—from which he was
dismissed as the result of intrigues
against him by his deputy. Here,
curiously enough, he seems to have
instigated, or concurred in, the inflic-
tion of punishments in addition to the
prisoners’ sentences, although “he was
dismissed not because of any misuse of
authority at the expense of the
prisoners but because the visiting
justices had no sympathy with a
system based on benevolence.”
In 1863, three years after his death,
a House of Lords committee reversed
the trend towards prison-reform, and,
says Barry, although the Prison Act of
1865 introduced an “eviscerated ver-
sion which was called the Mark
System,” “the English penal system
was to suffer from the baneful influ-
ence of the Committee of 1863 until
the enactment of the Criminal Justice
Act, 1948, brought the opportunity
for a new era of penal administration.”
Throughout his documented and
beautifully proportioned study, Mr.
Justice Barry builds up the picture of
a man who was much more than a
theorist; like some successful prison-
governors of recent times, Maconochie
had a gift for handling criminals, and
his undoubted success with the Norfolk
Island lags, which impressed Gipps in
spite of himself, was as much a triumph
of personality as of theory. But as
for Maconochie’s theories, the Judge
makes a survey in a final chapter of
the astonishing amount of them that
has been vsritten into the resolutions
of reforming committees and legisla-
tion, particularly in America; Maco-
nochie has been declared in a United
Nations study the originator of the
movement that has led to the extensive
adoption of the indeterminate sentence,
while today, “in England, for example,
a persistent offender under preventive
detention serves his sentence under a
system that is strikingly similar to
that used by Maconochie on Norfolk
Island.”
With a bibliography, appendix,
index, and especially the story of the
man who was chained to a rock on
Goat Island, Sydney Harbor: —
He was fastened to a rock for two
years by his waist with a
chain 26ft. long and with trumpet-
irons on his legs.... his only shelter
a wooden lid perforated with holes,
which was placed over him and
locked in that position at night.... ;
He was fed by means of a p01e,...
He drifted to Norfolk Island, where
Maconochie made him a gardener;
later he went mad and died in an
asylum, “but even during his madness
his attachment to Maconochie and his
family remained.”
Reviewed Briefly
Pioneering, They Call It: Alan
Peters (Hammond). Peters is another
of those alarming migrants who come
out (like Mr. Pringle) and write books
about us. He landed in New Zealand
with a wife and 2s. fought, cows
in such unlikely places as Pukenqi and
Te Teko and, after four years, had
built himself a house and got a job
he thought he would like. Heaven be
praised, it is a Success Stoiy!
* * * »
Australian and New Zealand Ships
of Today: Frank Norton (Angus and
Robertson). Colorfully illustrated and
describing in easy as well as technical
style everything from fishing vessels to
the Sydney ferries and such old friends
as the Wanganella and the Monowai;
also some of the ships that come in
from overseas. A useful and pleasant
little book for boys, Harbor-watchers
or mermaids.
* * * *
The Ironic German: Erich Heller
(Seeker and Warburg). A study of
Thomas Mann, with a very thorough
critical and biographical approach to
the novels, made especially interesting
by frequent references to Mann’s auto-
biographical “Meditations of a Non-
Political Man” which is not available
in translation. Dr. Heller is Professor
of German at the University of Wales.
* * * *
The Care of Devils: Sylvia Press
(Constable). At least McCarthyism
blew the American novel a bit of good.
Here is another to put beside “The
Sure Thing” and “The Troubled
Air”; the victim a middle-aged
spinster, an Intelligence worker in
Washington. She isn’t put before a
commission on TV, but quietly cross-
examined for several weeks by two
male colleagues without knowing what
they are trying to get at. They ques-
tion her motives for the simplest acts
of trust in friends and former col-
leagues; they drag out her private life,
covering it with insinuations and
doubts. The author is concerned
chiefly with the effects of such treat-
ment on the mind and health of the
victim, though she does waste some
pity on the persecutors as frightened
little men. She also poses the interest-
ing thought that, in view of the obvious
inefficiency and destructiveness of
McCarthyism, it might well have
become itself a Communist tool for
getting able liberals out of high places.
The hopeful ending, with the heroine
fighting back against dismissal, is
unintentionally touching in its despera-
tion,
* * * *
Between Wickets: Ray Robinson
(Fontana). First published in 1945,
it has been revised and brought up
to 1958 in this paperback edition. Thus
there are discussed such up-to-date
cricketing controversies as whether or
not Meckiff throws, together with con-
troversies now historical, such as body-
line. Breezily written, full of anecdote
and statistic it is bound to interest any
cricket enthusiast.
* * * *
The Death of Stalin: “Monitor”
(Wingate). He thinks that there was
more to the arrest of nine doctors early
in 1952 than meets the eye, and
recounts the events subsequent to
Stalin’s death on March 5, right up to
Bulganin’s exile in 1958. He asks why,
if they removed the top of Stalin’s skull
to determine that his brain had been
naturally injured, was there no evi-
dence of this operation to those who
saw Stalin lying in state? But he
advances nothing more concrete than
a man speculating on a nightmare.
* * * *
Epitaph for George Dillon: John
Osborne and Anthony Creighton
(Faber). Though written in 1954, this
play was not professionally staged until
early last year. One wonders whether
it would ever have been revived if one
of its authors had not, later, written
“Look Back in Anger.” A poor, con-
sumptive young actor-playwright comes
to live with, and on, a lower-middle-
class family, puts the youngest daughter
in the family way, falls in love with
the Communist aunt and, after a
stretch in a sanatorium and success-
fully prostituting his art, settles down
rather terribly as one of the family. The
family is very real, especially the
women, and the hero has some of
the viciousness, self-pity and biting
eloquence that later found their full
expression in Jimmy Porter.


Contemporary home design is not expensive.. .when you specify
the world’s strongest
roofing material
Ho
•a*
Free
low cost
home plans
booklet
Looking for new
ideas in modern
home design ?
Then post the
coupon below
today, for this
special Lysaght
booklet of home
plans. Contains
ten home sketch-
es and floor plans
that can be built
at low cost!
' «i
, <4
a»
•fcj&v .v<%<sv • -V/'" 3$ " ''^✓V>vi
::?■
v. ' ; * "*'
'A
§***
1
Li
oE.e
JESL
Gal van ized
&s&*•
mini
V Nv >.- : ' : -\v '\x,:-.j
That striking flat roof home which was just
outside your budget you CAN afford to build
it if you specify a Lysaght roof! Check costs
today, You’ll find that this strongest, easiest-to-
maintain of all roofing materials enables you to
make really worth-while savings. Just as im-
portant, it blends so happily with the modern
approach to roof design. So investigate the
Lysaght roof discover how much extra
beauty it offers and how much it saves on your
building loan.
B
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.,
Port Line Building, 50 Young Street, Sydney. N.S.W.
Please send me, free and post free, your latest Home Plans Booklet.
NAME ,
ADDRESS
STATE
Galvanized
Corrugated
Steel Sheet
Pre-painted
Galvanized Corrugated
Steel Sheet
Flat Galvanized Steel Sheet
• ■. ■
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Offices in all Capital Cities GI6BC
