

The Bulletin
Meeting the Mokolkols—page 19
Wednesday, May 6,1559
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


BE A
SUCCESSFUL
WRITER!
If YOU have the urge to Write and a love for
expressing yourself in words, you can learn to
write fhtccrxxfnl Short Stories, Articles, Written
Sketches, Radio Talks, Pars., Verse, etc.
“During the past six months my Acceptances
have returned me over £200.”
"I am pleased to report further Successes since
I.es. 10. This makes £53 in hand with more
to come.”
“I list hereunder my Acceptances to the amount,
of £ 100/10/9.’’
“My earnings from my Writing total almost
£70.”
“During the Course I sold five Stories, which
more than paid for my fees.”
mi
159 Flinders Lane. Melbourne : HO Castle-
renali St.. Sydney; 290 Adelaide Sf.. Bris-
bane; 21 (Irenloll St., Adelaide; 254 Mux - ra v
St., Perth.
crT AXn MAIL Tfl[S cot’POA- —— -
To STOTT'S: Please send me. without any
obliiratbm. your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars ut your Literary Courses.
MY XA.MK
AHUUKSS
AUK '. (5.8.959)
BOOKHUNTEK, Box 2671, 0.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
NORTHERN TERRITORY
Douglas Lockwood’s book about his
ten years as the Melbourne “Herald’s”
correspondent in the Northern Terri-
tory, Crocodiles and Other People
(Cassell), is a chapter-by-chapter com-
plaint about being introduced, when
he returns to Melbourne, as “our
crocodile correspondent.”
Stung by this minimisation of his
infinite duties in his vast field of opera-
tions, he devotes a chapter to each of
his activities: he is, he says, a Croco-
dile. Buffalo. Brumby, Droving, Out-
back, Incredulous, Raft, Medical,
Personal. Crime, Primeval, Art,
Corroboree. Mission, and Births,
Deaths and Marriages Correspondent;
and certainly under each of these head-
ings he produces enough fresh and
fascinating material, from deserts and
mangrove-swamps where the silence
has been for so long unbroken save for
the clicking of journalistic and
novelistic typewriters, to justify his
claims.
The worst menace to the pressman
in the Territory is not the crocodiles
whose jaws open and shut quicker than
men can think, or the buffaloes that
delight in trampling-out campfires and
anyone sleeping around them, but
human-beings, especially white oik-s.
They can go long distances in time
with no more mental food than (lie
memory of a journalist who swallowed
a tall story, such as the one about the
Darwin bank which made a pet of a
crocodile; and they have an even more
frightening code of hospitality, whose
finest flower is the presumption that
the least that can be offered to a guest
at a lonely campfire is an all-in fight.
“Want a fight?” is evidently an invi-
tation made with as complete a sin-
cerity as that of island chiefs sending
their daughters to guests’ bedrooms
after the feast; and Lockwood has two
shining examples of it; one of a group
of drovers who broke-off breakfast at
a boardinghouse at Newcastle Waters
for a ten-minute all-in go, and then
returned to finish their meal, although
a much better story of the same
boardinghouse is of how fifteen
drovers fought for an hour, sustaining
“four broken noses, five pairs of black
eyes (single shiners didn’t count), two
sprained wrists and thirty—the possible
—swollen lips.”
The other story is about a camp of
buffalo-hunters, where they were set
to finish a twelve-bottle case of rum
in one night, fight all next day and
finish another twelve-bottle case that
night. It was in such a camp that
Jerry Randall and the Kid staged a
duel by night with rifles; as told by
Mr. Randall: —
“We stand back-to-back and
begin walking to opposite ends of
the clearing. The idea is to go to
the trees, then walk back and shoot
on sight. There is a bit of a moon,
and we can see for maybe twenty-
five yards. But I’m at the cunning-
drunk stage, see, so instead of
starting the walk back I squat down
behind an anthill and wait. The
Kid hasn’t turned up in half an
hour so I go to bed. We find him
next morning,-asleep under a tree
with the gun beside him. Real fool
of a feller.”
Still, with caution of intelligence and
most understandable caution of spirit
circumventing attacks upon both his
credulity and his life, Lockwood
manages to get together some (he says)
reliable marvels: the man shot by a
wallaby, for instance; the account,
which won him £lOOO in the London
“Evening News” competition for the
world’s strangest story, of how the
Dutch East Indies boy Bas Wie flew
from Timor to Darwin stowed-away in
a plane’s nacelle, his shoulder ripped
to the bone by the revolving wheel as
it was retracted; the story of how r
the casual artist lan Fairweather
staged a Kon-Tiki expedition on a six-
foot raft of waterlogged wood and
rusty aircraft belly-tanks 400 miles
from Darwin to Timor; of a black
murderer who disposed of the body in
the centre of a six-foot anthill; of
flying-doctor Fenton’s dash, without
passport, to visit his mother in China.
And there are notes on country
dances where one man danced with
his left hand “fixed so tightly around
his partner’s throat that the mouth was
forced open and I could see the black
tongue and ugly throat of an eight-
foot python”—dressed-up, it seems, in
a ball-dress with a train brushing the
floor; and corroborees where the
American dancer, Ted Shawn, was
shocked white with admiration of the
technique of black dancers; of the
murder of Japanese pearlers by
aboriginals; of the increase of leprosy
among aboriginals in recent years; of
Namatjira (“Pastor Albrecht knows
him perhaps even better than Battar-
bee”) and his way with money; of
Nemarluk, the brilliant murderer who
was hunted-down by the even more
brilliant tracker Bui Bui; of night-
time brumby-drives; of Bill Harney’s
conversational duel with Xavier.
Herbert:—
What Herbert said was this:
“Now, listen, Harney; the great
German philosopher Nietzsche once
said that every poet must have an
audience, even though it be bloody
buffalo. Now, 111 be your buffalo
for exactly one hour”—here he took
an alarm-clock off the mantlepiece,
set it, and replaced it —“but by
crickey at the end of that hour you're
going to be mine . . .”
“When you get used to it it’s quite
a good idea,” Bill said. “At any rate,
it’s the only way Herbert and I could
get on together.”
Sea-sprites at Mosman
One relic, at least, of the strange
theosophical episodes in Sydney round
about 1925, must survive in many
people's memories—the amphitheatre
built at Balmoral “which the Lord
was to use as one of his platforms
when he came.” now transformed into
a block of flats; and many more relics
are preserved in To Be Young (Rupert
Hart-Davis), by Mary Luytens.
There are, for instance, her memories
of Krishnamurti, whom in their youth
she found “vague to the point of
stupidity,” though afterwards she was
greatly to revise her opinion, describ-
ing him in his Sydney days as “like a
perfect rose—the only really perfect
specimen of the season—growing in a
beautiful garden, whereas we were at
best paper imitations, manufactured
inside stuffy rooms by hands practised
to turn out these shoddy counterfeits
by the dozen.”
There are her memories of Nitya,
Krishnamurti’s brother, with whom,
she says, she fell in love at the age of
six and so remained until, when she
was sixteen, he died of tuberculosis.
Maty Luytens makes a considerable
o Continued on page 58)


ROCKET POWER
for your car ...
,■
,
7
f
f
J
Gives you all these
ad van tages. ..
9 ROCKET POWER!
© More miles per gallon
© Easier starting
© Smoother, quieter running
© Longer engine life
© Fast acceleration
Australia's FIRST
BORON Petrol
Ampol Boron Special is Australia's
only Boron petrol. It is the best
petrol you can buy! Test it your-
self. Fill up with Ampol Boron
Special to-day! Costs no more
than the Super Grade petrols it
replaces. Get rocket power-for the
road at no extra cost.
NOTHING MATCHES BORON l


The Bulletin
Wednesday, May 6,1959
Vol. 80—No. 4134
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
NEHRU FACES MAO
ABOUT the unhappiest and most
disillusioned of rulers just now
must be Mr. Nehru, the father of
Asiatic “neutralism,” who believed
that he could take tea with the Com-
munist tiger and survive.
He has certainly gone the limit in
hobnobbing with Moscow, which is all
to the good from a world point of
view, since his experience must prove
beyond doubt, both to him and to his
simple followers, the complete bank-
ruptcy of his policy.
As Mao of China declares that every
political effect comes out of the mouth
of a gun, so the only way to live with
people like him is with gun in hand.
Again and again agreements with
Communism have been proved to be
worse than useless, and usually
dangerous, since they create a sense
of false security. And, with the Com-
munists, assurances and protestations
of friendship even when accompanied
by the hanging of wreaths round the
necks of Nehrus are merely part of a
technique.
At the same time, Nehru has been
in an impossible position. The theory
upon which India was “freed” from
“the Western imperialist capitalist
yoke” was born in Moscow and
adopted by a silly Western flapper-
press which screamed even more loudly
than the Moscow propagandists that
the civilisation of Asian nations was
being stifled and the juice sucked out
of it to feed the fatted aldermen of the
City of London. The Kremlin
succeeded in persuading a .lot of
Indian Congress members, that Com-
munism had been its liberator and that
India was looked on as a brother- or
sister-nation bound to the Moscow-bloc
nations by common ties of Asiatic
geography and racial interests.
Yet there is a deep-rooted friendli-
ness in large sections of Indian public
opinion towards the British, and par-
ticularly a pride in holding offices
created by the British. The whole
Army and civil structure of the Indian
Administration is British - planned.
Army, Navy and Air Force uniforms
and ranks and way of life are so British
that they would pass in Fort William
or the Wellington Barracks.
Apart from this, there has been the
age-old and well-founded distrust of
the Russian which lies close to every
Indian heart and which is proving all
too well grounded.
TV'EHRU has played a double game
during the years of freedom in more
senses than one. Politically he has
strengthened his position by pandering
to dislike of the West and to the friction
between the Hindu and the Moslem to
further territorial ambitions directed
against Pakistan, which refused to
agree to a United India under a pre-
dominantly Hindu rule.
At the same time he has sought to
conciliate the Arab Middle East by
kidding to Nasser and deserting his
British Commonwealth fellow-nations
during the 1956 crisis, while at the same
time backing Russia even to the point
of excusing the Soviet aggression in
Hungary.
He accepted the political support of
Russia in the matter of Kashmir, and
he showed neither alarm nor disap-
proval at the continual invasions of
Pakistan from Afghanistan.
India now stands as a large and help-
less island in a sea of hostility. Nasser
has deserted the Communist camp
along with his satellites and with it the
policy of specific neutralism which he
professed earlier to adopt in line with
Nehru’s.
The Russians obviously have grabbed
control of the politics of Iraq. India
has a cancer in its very heart in the
State of Kerala, which “went Com-
munist” without exciting any doubts
in the Brahmin mjnd of Nehru. Its
Communist rulers are showing the same
complete unscrupulousness as is always
shown by Communist Governments in
destroying political opposition and
assuring that no other party will ever
again secure power. They are extend-
ing their tentacles over the borders of
their own State and corrupting those
of adjacent ones. They have, in effect,
ceased to be a subject State of India
and are part of the Russian empire.
They maintain lip-service to Delhi only
because this procedure enables them
to live in the “enemy’s” camp as spies
and saboteurs and further the interests
of the Kremlin.
To add to Nehru’s troubles, his
bosom ally in neutralism, Bandara-
naike, the Premier of Ceylon, has
apparently sided with the Communists
over Tibet, though he has not dared
to do so openly (since five-eighths
of the inhabitants of Ceylon are
Buddhists), and chose the week in
which the eyes of India were opened
to announce that the British system of
Government was unsuited to the island’s
circumstances and that Ceylon could be
better governed by an executive coun-
cil of Ministers than by a constitu-
tionally elected Parliament:
It is singular that his adoption of
the theory of politbureau rule should
follow only a week after Soekarno’s
declaration that he would return to
the same system, the latter adventurer
being in almost the same close affinity
to Moscow as Bandaranaike.
Nehru obviously feels himself a
sadly mistaken man as he hears
Peking voicing patently false charges
against India of providing bases for the
organisation of Tibetan revolt and
creating pretexts for the invasion of
northern India to secure a foothold on
the high slopes of the Himalayas in
order to menace India itself.
rpHE Government of India, with its
i basic Aryanism, has nothing in
common with Tartar or Mongol, with
Russian or Chinese. It has a very great
deal in common with the British races,
and it thinks in English and has the
same principles of basic morality and
regard for truth and good _ faith as
concepts necessary to the existence of
an advanced and cultured civilisation.
Its future lies in integration with
Western civilisation rather than with
the barbarism of the polyglot Middle
East or the Malays.
Only when this Government realises
this will it become a really great nation
instead of a big potential puppet.
It can never achieve regimentation
with Russia and China because of
its religious and racial intermixtures,
and it can never submit to the same
sort of ruthless government as the
Communist countries except as a slave
State, because all educated Indians
have been taught to think in the English
idiom and of Western civilisation as
the ideal.
The Japanese have achieved in a
few years enormous things by applying
logic to their situation, and if the pre-
sent crisis has frightened Nehru out
of the rosy rhododendron-clouds in
which he lives politically and led him
home to a real alliance with the West
in place of the facing-both-ways
adjustment in which he has tried to
please everybody, it might turn into a
blessing in disguise.
India and Japan are the only bars
to the complete Communisation of
Asia,, which both Lenin and Stalin
coveted as the key to world-domination.


COMMUNIST ROPE-TRICK


PLAIN ENGLISH
Back to 1775—in Reverse
Mr. McEwen’s comment on the
“unparalleled obstruction” to Australia’s
selling on the United States market is
not an isolated protest.
Overseas aid, with its consequent
accumulation of U.S. investment funds
abroad, has been turned into
machinery for the building of a U.S.
overseas empire earning profits with
American capital under special encourage-
ment from the countries in which invest-
ments were made. At the same time
precautions have been taken to see that
the end-product of external investment
does no penetrate to compete with
American home primary industry.
The U.S. policy is, in fact, very
much in line with the British policy
that developed enough indignation in the
United States at the time of the Boston
Tea Party to lose Great Britain her
American colonies.
Mr. McEwen is late in the field as a
complainant. The Canadians switched
their Government on issues which arose
out of the U.S. restrictions on Pacific
Coast oil-import. U.S. interferences with
Canadian policy led the new External
Affairs Minister to remind Washington
that Canada was not a small South
American republic. In the Pacific an
attempt to dictate that the United King-
dom should be excluded _from defence
planning, so as to leave power of dictation
in American hands, met with a politer
but no less effective rebuff than the
measures affecting Canadian interests.
Last week the thousand delegates from
44 countries assembled in Washington
for the meeting of the International
Chamber of Commerce gave a panel
from Congress a thorough interrogation
on U.S. protectionist policies. The Con-
gressmen found themselves in a doubly
awkward position in the face of an open-
ing appeal by President Eisenhower during
which he asserted that “the flag fol-
lowed trade —an international banner of
freedom and peace.”
He declared that the “challenge to
businessmen in a changing world was to
prove that the free-market economy
could outproduce any other kind of
economy known to man.”
The Congressional delegation argued
subsequently that the irritations and dis-
criminations suffered through present
conditions were a “minor price to pay
for freedom.”
Most of the non-American delegates
seemed somewhat bewildered by this
approach. The British chairman of the
conference, J. L. S. Steel, of 1.C.1.,
asked enlightenment on U.S. policy in
the face of practical exemplars of the
U.S. protectionist trends, such as the
tariff quotas on woollen materials, the
moves to exclude heavy electrical equip-
ment, the mandatory controls over oil
and other basic needs of industry.
He challenged the Americans to show
that these moves were not inconsistent
with the freeing of world trade.
Australia chimed in to ask how U.S.
import-quotas on lead and zinc could be
reconciled with the President’s advice
to other countries to embrace liberal
principles and whether it was not waste-
ful for the U.S. to continue lavish foreign-
aid programmes to help develop new
countries while strangling their markets.
Germany, the British, Canadians,
Greeks and Danes poured awkward
questions on the Congressmen. Most of
the queries concerned the matter of
dumping primary products produced in
the U.S. with the support of Government
subsidies in competition with the exports
on which weaker countries lived.
The French, as reasonable people,
asked how the United States itself would
react to quota restrictions—for instance,
the German quota on coal-imports from
the U.S. Delegates were amused to hear
that the reactions would be “violent.”
Some of the Congressmen admitted
that the surplus-disposal programme had
grown into a “monster” which it was
difficult to control. U.S. tariff-walls,
which place the U.S. in a unique position
in respect of Australian exports, are
becoming a menace to primary - produc-
ing countries. The U.S.A. is the only
country which has a heavy tariff on
Australian wool, and its obstructions
against the sale of meat and a 49 per
cent, cut in purchases of lead in the
dollar area are a serious matter.
It is to be hoped that the assurance
of U.S. Senators at the conference can
be taken literally. They told delegates
that “it was unfair to deduce that the
U.S. was abandoning liberal policies
merely because it was momentarily deal-
ing with a specific problem of competi-
tion with local production.”
Any horse-laughs accounted for during
the conference probably came from the
ghost of King George 111.
Natives and SobstufF
[“By Eromanga”]
The aftermaths of the imprisonment of
Albert Namatjira for having sold liquor
to his fellow - Aruntas illustrates the
damage that can be done by the senti-
mental policy of a silly press which knows
as much about the natives of its own
country.as it does about the Hairy Ainus
of Japan—or less.
The aboriginal is unsuited by both
metabolism and mentality to live as a
white and unsuited by environment and
culture to mingle with whites. His
habits and thinking, with a few tribal
exceptions, are as far removed from us
as the Stone Age.
The problem is complicated by the
fact that in the eastern States there are
few, if any, aborigines left. Those that
are so designated mainly have names like
Macnamara or O’Toole.
Anybody who saw poor Namatjira
in his environment when he visited
Sydney three years or so ago and who
had been born among aborigines—as
the writer was—could only be moved to
pity and disgust.
The bewildered fellow was feted
like an American general, exhibited by
hosts who sat him down next-door to
decollete young socialites of the type
whose names and pictures appear in
flapper journals and who took it in
turns to pair with him while the flash-
lights exploded. He was compelled to
sleep in closed rooms, which he hated.
He was orated to by Dr. Evatt at one
function as if he were President Eisen-
hower about the rights of the aborigines.
He was whizzed round in motor-cars
and shown the sights, which his mind
could not take in.
Amid the turmoil of one such evening
near midnight, when hq ordinarily would
have been in bed in camp, he asked
pathetically whether he could be allowed
to sleep in the garden. He could remem-
ber nothing that he had seen during the
day except a kookaburra, which was a
novelty to him, since there are none in
Central Australia.
To any real friend of the aboriginal
the only satisfaction about Namatjira’s
plight is that he is probably happier in the
leserve detention where his white
“friends” cannot reach him than he would
be at large.
It is time Native Affairs Departments
stripped themselves of sloppy sentimen-
talism forced on them by the press where,
it is dealing with full-blood aborigines.
The problem of the half-quarter-
and octoroon-castes of the southern
States, who are invariably described as
aborigines, is an entirely different
matter.
Mosiopo!isfs on the Outer
[From Canberra]
/ One of the best-received features of the
Government’s decision to extend tele-
vision to country areas is its announced
policy of giving priority in the allocation
of licences as far as possible to local
independent interests.
Having seen the power of newspaper
monopoly during the recent uproar on
Parliamentary salaries, the Government
has decided that, if possible, monopolists
should not gain control of country TV-
stations through their interests in existing
stations in capital-cities. *
Although jt was not announced, the
Government will offer no objections if
licencees of the new rural stations
co-operate to secure programme material
which can be interchangeable between
the stations, but only as long as each
station retains its individual identity.
This would avoid rural licencees 'being
dependent on the metropolitan stations,
and prevent the metropolitan interests
from trying to put “the squeeze” on the
rural stations by withholding material
unless they had a substantial interest in
the licence.
Because of technicalities it will be
about 12 months before rural TV-stations
are operating, but when they do start
telecasts, approximately 75 per cent. •of
Australians will be able to receive TV in
their homes.
No decision has been made on the
actual siting of transmitters in country
areas, but the Australian Broadcasting
Control Board will require assurances
from applicants for licences that the


transmitters will be so situated as to give
the widest possible area of coverage.
The Government hopes that by pro-
viding for stations in the Newcastle-
Hunter River, Illawarra, Richmond-
Tweed Heads and Central Tablelands
areas nearly all of N.S.W. will be covered
by TV.
The Government has not limited to
one the number of stations in any area,
but it is unlikely at this stage that more
than one licence will be granted.
The A.8.C.8. is almost certain to
decide to watch the progress of initial
stations in rural areas before agreeing to
the establishment of a second or third
station.
Package Agreement
Despite the attempts of armchair
diplomats of the American press to dis-
count the efforts of the British Prime
Minister and to propagate the idea that
he is in the position of an adolescent
whom the mature .Uncle Sam is allowing
to play with foreign affairs under his
watchful eye, Macmillan seems to have
achieved unity of thought and procedure
in Europe on the approach to the summit
conference.
May is the crucial month, the dead-
line for the carrying-out of the Russian
plans for taking-over West Berlin. The
Kremlin announced this with grim
earnestness earlier in the year, backing
it with threats of all-out war if its
measures were resisted and the Western
allies stood on their undoubted rights to
remain in the old German capital.
Khrushchev, who seemed in good
health if in bad temper, was still rumbling
threats at the swashbuckling military
parade “for peace” in Moscow on May
Day, but he was faced with the most
united Western front so far exhibited
against him.
Contrary to the claims of the journalists
and broadcasters who in every crisis with
Russia foul their own nests with untruth-
ful rumor and baseless speculation, Mr.
Herter, the new U.S. Secretary of State,
has made it clear that the Foreign
Ministers of the Western Powers “have
settled every detail” of a package deal
for determining the fate of Berlin and
Germany, and of European peace, for
presentation to the Russians, first at the
Geneva meeting with the Kremlin’s
Foreign Minister and finally at the sum-
mit conference—if any—which follows.
If the crisis promised over Berlin late
in May can be deferred it will be a
Western gain in the transaction and have
profound effects on opinion in the
satellite countries.
It is as yet unsafe to assume that the
way even to negotiation is clear. For
Moscow is quite capable of presenting
the world with the fait accompli of an
occupied West Beriin overnight, with
Russian tank-divisions shielding it along
the Elbe. There is an inescapable air
of conviction in world Communist
propaganda at the moment that the West
is bluffing and that if Moscow is firm
and ruthless as in Tibet and Budapest
the Nato nations could do nothing about
it, since their workers would not allow
them to fight a world war on such an
issue as the freedom of a bombed-out
European city.
Tyrannies are apt to make this sort of
miscalculation, with disastrous results to
themselves and the world. The Kaiser
did it over the invasion of Belgium and
Hitler over the invasion of Russia, which
he seemed to believe would bring the
West round to his side.
Cahill and "Penalty" Clauses
A fortnight ago the N.S.W. executive of
the A.L.P. decided to send a deputation
to Minister for Labor and Industry J. J.
Maloney asking for a repeal of the
“penalty” clauses in the State Indus-
trial Arbitration' Act. The Trades
and Labor Council joined the depu-
tation, and the Minister promised to
refer the matter to Cabinet, saying that
a statement on Government policy would
be made before the June conference.
Next move was a notice of motion
signed by 20 Labor M.L.A.s indicating
their intention to raise the matter at this
week’s caucus-meeting ; actual discussion
on the proposal will not take place until
the following meeting on June 2. This
will give Cahill plenty of time to con-
sider his tactics —and he’ll need it.
If the 20 members stand firm they will
need to convince only a small number
of their colleagues to carry the day. On
the other hand, not all the 20 are dyed-
in-the-wool industrial-wingers some
have merely jumped on the band-wagon,
and a convincing argument from Cahill
could induce them to jump off again.
Left-wing unions have been fighting
for a long time to have penalty clauses
excised from both Federal and State
arbitration laws. Their purpose is clear
—the destruction of the arbitration system
—but it doesn’t seem to be clear to many
of their dupes who are hoodwinked by
the catchcry that the right to strike is
one of the fundamental rights of Labor.
Left-wing unions know they would
have no chance of getting the Labor
movement to agree to scrap arbitration.
But they realise that if they can get the
penalty clauses abolished they will be
able to make arbitration so ineffective
that even moderate trade-unions may be
glad to see it go.
As the biggest employer in N. S. Wales,
the Cahill Government cannot afford to
surrender to the demands of these
extremists and it is not expected that it
will do so. Already some of the moder-
ate trade-union leaders are pointing out
that the penalty clauses work two ways ;
if they are abolished for the trade-unions
they must also be abolished for the
employers. The moderates realise, too,
that the penalties have the effect of
curbing the wild men of the movement
who would otherwise be able to create
industrial chaos, to the detriment of all.
Dinny on the Rises
[From “Collins-street”]
In more than 30 years’ listening from
the Victorian Parliamentary Press Gal-
lery I doubt if I have ever heard a more
miserable speech in spirit, content and
intent than that delivered by Dinny
Lovegrove, the deputy Labor leader, on
the bill to increase members’ salaries.
His speech was in three parts. In the
first he admitted that the Premier had
not initiated the review of salaries, but
that he had been one of those from
both sides of the House to agitate for it,
to place facts before it and to now
believe that the extra £550 a year was
not enough. Then he announced he
would vote against the bill, and he did. '
For sheer brazenness this took the
Mace, but he then went into an attack
on the Melbourne press and spoke of
“character-assassination” without pro-
ducing a tittle of evidence ; sneered at
individual journalists by name ; and
quoted an obviously private letter from
Sir John Williams, the managing-director
of Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd.
The third section of his speech was
devoted to lame excuses for voting against
the bill because the Parliamentary party
had been instructed to do so by the
Labor central executive and amounted to
no more than quibbles.
Sir Herbert Hyland’s explanation of
how his Country party had come to vote
for the bill, despite the direction by the
annual conference to oppose it, which
preceded Lovegrove's speech, was quite
convincing. Hyland revealed he had
taken a straw-poll on the bill, for the
Premier’s information, before the con-
ference, and the result favored it. This
is how politics are practised, especially
on such a bill.
Probably the best contribution of all
to either the Victorian or Federal debates,
however, was made by John Rossiter, the
sincere and convincing Liberal 'from
Brighton, who suggested that all Parlia-
ments should follow the South Australian
example of legislating in these matters
for the coming Parliament.
No Pulled Punches
[l’rora Canberra]
Trade Minister John McEwen pulled
no punches in his talks with American
officials in Washington on the effects of
American trading practices on Aus-
tralia’s own trade policies.
He told the Americans that their
surplus-disposal policies in relation to
wheat, and the difficulties they placed
in the way of Australian primary pro-
ducts entering the U.S. market, were
“unparelleled obstacles” to the expansion
of Australian trade.
The major trouble was the U.S. wheat-
disposal programmes, which were seri-
ously affecting Australia’s normal wheat-
market, particularly at a time when Aus-
tralia was faced with a record crop.
McEwen said he told U.S. officials
Australia v/anted to co-operate, as much
as possible, in giving surplus production
to needy countries, but any such aid must
be side-by-side with the continuation of
normal trading practices.
When the “Food for Peace” conference
opens in Washington this week, top
(Continued on page 12)


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
T)sychiatrtc talent and a sense of humor
■*- save us mail-order clerks from the
madhouse. I opened this gem from a
northern Mallee dame to a Melbourne
store: “I am returning the bloomers, as
they are too small, and now wish you
to send me a veranda-blind with a 5-ft.
drop.”—“Bruce’s Spider.”
❖ ❖ *>
“Ardoyne”: “If you're expecting a
baby, take at least one egg a day,”
counsels the British Egg Marketing
Board in its latest publicity campaign:
Eggs are very remarkable. Clean and
beautiful to look at, each in its own tidy
shell, they help little children to grow up
strong. They help sick people to get well,
and healthy people to stay well. When you
are getting old they help you to keep
young.
It might have been added that egg,
taken with something to wash it down
the gullet, is first-rate for steadying the
nerves of expectant fathers.
❖ ❖ *l*
“Lillydale”: “Tasma” (B. 15/4 / ’59")
might be interested to know that my
Scots grandfather by 1865 had decided
that the blessings he had received from
this bounteous land warranted his second
son (of five) being christened “Australias.”
To ensure its use, it was his sole given
name, and survives (slightly mangled by
compositors) when yearly is published the
winner’s name of the Australias Sharp
Scholarship.
“Imperial 55”: The great decision had
to be made, and the boys were having
some trouble trying to make up their
minds. There were two attractions (well,
three, I suppose) and they only had one
night free. Which was it to be —Billy
Graham or Sabrina? ITeaven or bust?
❖ *l* <♦
“Swelpme”: At Parramatta (N.S.W.)
jail about 20 years ago a warder
approached the governor with the infor-
mation that a prisoner could climb the
25ft. stone wall to freedom in less than
10 minutes. The governor's answer was
emphatic ; whereupon the screw declared
that he himself could do it. Like a
sportsman the governor took him up.
Accordingly, when all the prisoners were
in their cells after evening - muster the
governor and his party retired to the
gate-house, leaving the warder in the
yard alone. Just under 10 minutes later
he was on the outside, knocking at the
huge, steel-bound door for admittance.
He explained how he had done
with no gear that was not available to
the prisoners. Alterations were promptly
made to a high, chain-wire dividing-
fence and ground and first-floor window-
bars ; but how he negotiated the 25ft.
drop to the pavement outside no screw
was ever permitted to divulge. The only
further information I was ever able to
glean was that the man had been a
steeplejack.
£« £«
“G. Kay”: The late Westralian State
Government, almost on the eve of the
election which put the party in Opposi-
tion, named the bridge across the Swan
River at Perth (now nearly completed)
The Golden West Bridge. The new
Government wasted no time in cancelling
“Golden West” and substituting “The
Narrows.” The place always was “The
Narrows’’ right back to very early times
when some of our fathers, as boys, swam
the river at that point after a longish
amble up from Fremantle. Peculiarly
enough, as one Digger points out, the
war - memorial on the hill above (in
King’s Park) accommodates its thousands
on Anzac and other days. The Narrows
is just beyond and down the slope, more-
or-less as it was on Gallipoli in 1915.
“Sunray”: A comment from a Mel-
bourne friend: “Our Music Bowl is
something to remember. It is a wonder-
ful asset for Melbourne, despite that it
is suggested we hold the swimming
championships in the Bowl and the con-
certs in the Pool because they can't keep
water in the Pool and they can't keep
it out of the Bowl. I don’t think the
engineers were very pleased.”
*> ♦> ❖
“0.W.W.”: Two bodgies sat next to
an elderly lady on a suburban train.
One kept-up caustic comments on the
mothers of his numerous girl - friends ;
to which the other invariably answered :
“Aw, bull!” Presently the lady rose to
leave at a station. Tapping one lad on
the shoulder, she indicated a suitcase
on the luggage-rack. "Now then, Bull,”
she said cheerfully, “how about helping
an old cow out with her bag?” Looking
sheepish, Bull obliged.
*> ❖ ❖
“G.F.A.”: I’dvlike to correct “C.E.G.”
(B. 1 /4/’59) about the weight of pennies.
After some five years as a teller around
Melbourne I can assure him that there
are only 48 pennies to one pound by
weight. By a strange coincidence 55.-
worth of pennies (200 z.) weighs exactly
the same as £5-worth of silver, irrespec-
tive of whether it’s comprised of three-
penny or two-bob bits, as silver all
weighs the same. In Victoria, where the
banks issue bags for coins, a careless
teller can find himself short £4 15s.
when a spiv passes over 55.-worth of
pennies in a silver-bag for change during
a rush-period.
DRESSING UP OR DOWN
“A plush era of fashion is beginning, with
glittering beads, brocaded silks and costly furs,
typical of other eras when the world was
troubled and under economic stress.”
Under economic stress
Unhappy millionaires will dress
In silken splendor to impress
The Joneses of our troubled era
That all is well, though slightly dearer;
Of course, they couldn't be sincerer,
But yet, by this they just invite,
If style-historians are right,
The chaos they desire to fight.
Therefore in shiny coats and bags,
In last year’s frocks reduced to rags,
Let jaded men and worn-out hags
Stave-off the stroke of doom, and be
The saviours of society :
And if they need a model — see,
It’s second-nature, now, with me.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


I arrived in an American city,
made myself known to relatives,
and was taken by a cousin for an after-
noon drive. Before starting I was told
he’d only had the car a week, and had
never driven previously. A sticker on the
windscreen partly blocked my view. I
thought his driving was queer ; the keep-
to-the-right rule made it all seem queer.
A man called out: “Isn’t half the road
enough for you?” “Oh, take the air,”
my cousin replied. “Sure,” said the man,
“it’s the safest thing I know.” Soon it
happened: a bump—nothing serious ;
just a few scratches. The other driver
was a stunning blonde. No harsh words
were spoken. Both said: “Sorry a lot.”
A cop rode up. “You’re a gonner,
cousin,” I thought, as the blonde smiled
sweetly. I feared being called as a wit-
ness. The cop was civil to my cousin,
but spoke rather sharply (I thought) to
the blonde. He said: “Get going—and
be more careful.” Back at the house I
looked at the sticker. It told the world:
“I favor Pay Raise for Police and Fire-
men.” —“0.G.”
»;♦ ❖ ♦>
“Sister Elleli”: Hadn’t seen my Old
Digger patient for so long that I had
hoped it was a sign that he and Mum
were hitting it off a little better (in one
sense) and a little less often (in another).
He fetched-up today with a shiner and
a grazed temple. “Put a bit of ointment
on this sore spot for me, will you, love?”
I ventured, “How come?” Never one to
put forth unlikely excuses of hitting a
door, etc., he replied, “Truth to tell, I
dunno how. I got full at the battalion
dinner and I either fell over or Mum
clocked me.” For his truthfulness I
warmed him at the radiator., and with a
hair of the dawg. Gazing at the glass
reflectively, he said, “It’s all so hazy;
but I think it was Mum . . . and she
certainly was entitled to!”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Narumee”: American stomachs must
be a lot stronger than most if they can
engulf, let alone render-down the affront
to gastric-juices depicted in natural (and
all the more revolting) color and size in
jpy Yank magazine: pancakes, sweet-
corn, peaches, strawberry-jam and cream
piled atop one another in that order —
as an opening gambit to breakfast!
♦> »>
“Louie the Louse”: Sometimes
wonder if all TV-viewers can be lumped
together as weirdies. Running a night
repair-service, I answered the phone.
“Television - service?” came a woman’s
voice. “My set’s just broken down.
Please send a man out.” And, with that,
she hung up. No name, no address. Oh,
well!
❖ ❖ *Z+
“Akarana”: News of carrier Mel-
bourne’s doings up north takes me back
to her departure from same waters two
years ago. Alongside in Hong Kong, the
wharf was packed with weeping Chinese
lasses, and if you’ve ever seen a Chinee
girl shedding tears you’ll know what a
heart-rending scene it was as they parted
from their lacks (unmarried ones only,
“ Please , Gloria! Don't let's start a brawl TODAY!”
of course). Sailing south, we anchored
in Cid Harbor, Barrier Reef, for three
days, so that the Admiral could carry
out his annual inspection —on the way
home! Nearby Hayman Island holiday-
makers turned-out in force to boat around
the carrier, and one large launch loaded
to the gunwales with bikini-clad beauties
soon had Melbourne’s lower-deck cleared
and the flight-deck crowded with tars
admiring the view. A male voice from
the launch: “Have a good look, Jack.
I’ll bet you haven’t got this on board,”
was immediately countered: “Ah-h-h,
white trash! ”
“Bick”: Picture-theatre in our (Vic.)
neighborhood, yet another victim of the
one-eyed monster TV, is up for sale.
Nothing unusual in that, except, perhaps,
that the sale-notice outside the theatre
states “Vacant Possession,” and that one
of the current films is “The Sell-out.”
+> ❖ ❖
“Temora”: Boss came into my office
with an excessive telephone - account,
pausing, in retreat, to suggest that all
calls could be checked in detail —appa-
rently expecting a feminine outburst of
remorseful tears. Report: inter-State
calls between 5 and 7 a.m. to Tasmania
included one of 36 minutes! Explana-
tion : Lovesick cleaner ; love will find a
way-ay-ay! But I am not aqiused.
❖ ❖ ❖
“1.J.”: In some South Australian
schools the M.B.HA. appoints a Sister
to talk to senior girls on baby-care and
child-welfare. At the end of the course
the girls sit for their mothercraft certifi-
cate, but sometimes find it difficult to
put on paper the lessons they have
learned. On baby’s need for exercise one
student wrote: “Before putting baby
down to sleep, give him a good kick.”
On breast-feeding: “Breast-feeding is
best because (a) it is cheap ; ( b ) the
milk is easily handled ; (c) the cat can’t
get at it; ( d ) the milk has bones and
mussels in it.” On the need for sunshine :j
“Babies who are exposed to sunshine
every day get V.D.” (i.e., vitamin-D). On
weaning: “Cut off one breast completely.
A few weeks later cut off the other.’’
No wonder Sabrina sticks to the stage.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“W.F.”: The pen-factory at Leura in
the Blue Mountains of N.S.W. (B.
22/ 4/’59), which employs quite a number
of local girls and several men, had a
miraculous escape from destruction in
the bushfires of 1957, proving, maybe,
that the pen is mightier than both fire
and the sword. Started just after World
War II by two former employees of a
company with a world-wide name in
British pen-manufacture, the Leura works
now turn out millions of their various
products for supply to Commonwealth
and State Government departments as
well as to chain-stores and wholesalers.
❖ ❖ ❖
“8.J.L.”: A short temper is never an
asset, but in few trades is it more a
liability than in that of a motor-mechanic.
The infinite patience of some in awkward
postures is always enviable, but the
crudities of others make grim entertain-
ment. One of the worst-tempered men
I have known cranked his truck-engine
furiously and fruitlessly ; snatched out
the handle and hurled it frenziedly at
the vehicle. The rusted grille collapsed,
and the result was a fist-sized hole in
the radiator. The same chap later drop-
kicked a carburettor, whose only fault
was a dirty jet, into a creek from which
it was never recovered. Then there was
Old Bill; you could tell when Bill had
trouble starting by the crank-handle welts


along the mudguards. In a farmer’s
engine-room can be seen innumerable
dents and scars along the iron wall. Long
ago the cocky did his alley and hurled
a spanner at his reluctant motor. Fortu-
nately the wrench skidded harmlessly off
the block, but flew with a most gratifying
crash into the wall. “I know what a
mug I am,” says the chap; “I always
do my block with that damn engine.
But now I keep my head when I lose it,
if you know what I mean, and always
pelt the spanner straight at the wall.
No damage to the engine and a much
louder bang.” True mechanics, working
for a boss, don’t —indeed may not —in-
dulge in such tantrums, but they still
have their little ways. Knew one who
would suddenly drop all tools, frenziedly
roll the biggest cigarette imaginable, and
smoke it so savagely that it burst into
flame. Another invariably stood back,
.with a most dismal look on his face as
“This year the Mutual Admiration Art Society is going all-out
for the Archibald Prize,”
his work collapsed about him, and say
tragically, “I’d ’a bet me left elbow, me
left elbow, that that would have worked! ”
Only he didn’t say “elbow.” Me? Well,
I dodge repair-jobs as much as possible,
but I’ll soon have to put a couple of
new sheets of iron on that engine-room.
♦> ❖ ♦>
“Old Boltonian”: Have swallowed a
surreptitious pot of beer at the “C. 8.”
in Richmond (B. 25/3/’59) after visiting
that famous township at the age of 16,
but for puzzling pub-names my entry
is the “Hark to Nudger” in Rockdale
(Lancashire). Before Rockdale swapped
rural simplicity for cotton-mills its Hunt
had a bitch renowned throughout the
county for her keen nose, and when the
hunt was up, the locals would “ ’ark to
Nudger,” knowing well that her deep
belling announced a view. Ancients, even
in my time, 33 years ago, would refer
to some particularly bright child as
“Sharp as one o’ Nudger’s pups.” Within
cry of the pub is the wall from which
daily, hoping he won’t be identified with
whatever happened to the turnstile, which
for a day or two bore an “Out of Order”
sign.
*** *** ❖
“D.H.9.”: There was never a shortage
penholders around the counters while
George Reid was postmaster at North
shore (circa 1900). As occasion demanded,
he hopped down Mount $t j
grabbed handfu] f meat . skewers £rom
S, ~ A
Pat Dunne s butchery. Memory is a little
dim, but 1 m sure that as penholders they
were not quite as ornate as the one I
use ’ which is embossed “Commonwealth
Bank of Australia” but serviceability
alone counted in those hard times. Pat
was a bit of a character himself. As
a Jay Pay, he swore deponents on his
cash-book ; but the solemnity of the
ceremony was always maintained,
*** *+* *
••p.o.M.C”: A delightful screen-play
now entertaining Sydney is surely unique,
John Bright preached his Corn Law re-
forms, and my grandfather never failed
to expectorate thereon, being a staunch
Conservative. My uncle, a Liberal,
solemly tipped his hat on passing the
historic spot. Sentimental, the English!,
❖ ❖ ❖
“Mugga Way”: Having failed to buy
a paper, the 18st. man had .both a
sixpence and a Manly-ferry token in his
hand as the warning bell rang. Going
at full speed, he accidentally put the
sixpence into the slot instead of the
token (cost Is. 9d.). The impact of
weight-cwm-speed on the turnstile caused
a splintering crash from its innards and
a sound like metal being chewed-up, and
the barrier gave way. Without pausing
or daring to look round, the traveller
scooted on to the ferry, last across the
gang-plank. He’s still using the ferry
to the point of being almost indiscreet.
From beginning to end, despite good talk,
good food and good wine, one solitary
cigarette (Miss Bergman’s) is lighted and
quickly stubbed—not another soul takes
so much as a draw throughout the per-
formance.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Allygroh”: A friend invited a busi-
ness acquaintance to a symphony con-
cert and remarked after he’d studied the
programme, “I see we’re to have some
of Walton’s music.” “Walton’s?” said
the guest. “How long’ve they had an
orchestra?”
“Sevenelms”: My friend Sam the
Snob served his apprenticeship in a shop
off Saville Row in the days when gents’
trilbies were shod only in Russian calf,
and had to be polished, insteps included,
with Day and Martin’s blacking. Boot-
polish as we know it had yet to be
invented at Williamstown (Vic.), and
prove a boon to world-wide do-it-
yourselfers. Of “Bespoke” (B. 8/4/’59)
Sam says, “Watch that hyphen; in any
shop of quality the window-lettering will
read: Bespoke-boot Maker. Lack of the
hyphen promises Hymen because a
Bespoke Bootmaker must mean one who
is affianced, walking-out or, as you vulgar
colonials express it, tracking-square.”
A NEW APPROACH
“A psychologist says that if cowards or moral
delinquents could only bring their weaknesses
into the open, even flaunt them, instead of
trying to hide them, they would be taking the
first positive steps to conquer themselves and
attain peace of mind.”
If on an affair you embark
With a synthetic blonde, whom you park
In a flat, you may stonker
And finally conquer
Your Devil, if this truth you’d mark:
You’ll find you can dig moral gold
If you would be open and bold.
Don’t try to conceal her —
Parade and reveal her !
Your wife, understanding, won’t
scold. , *
The expertly light-fingered “dip”
Might decide, ere he hoists from a hip,
That a style surreptitious
Is really pernicious.
Temptation he’ll certainly trip
If he brazenly flaunts his routine
When a wallet he wished to glean.
In clink, where he’ll languish,
In quite peaceful anguish
He’ll see what a prize mug he’s been.
If you're one of those fellows whose gore
Turns to water at sound of a roar
From a bloke who detests you,
This psycho, suggests you,
May throw wide your self-respect’s door
By bearding your lion. Scorning fear,
Bite your 16-stone enemy’s ear;
And then, for good measure,
Invite his displeasure
By dousing your fag in his beer!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


Mariners, Ancient and Otherwise
By CHARLES MEEKING
"Oassing ferries sent signal-
blasts from their sirens,
yachtsmen waved, and so did
lonely officers from the bridges
of liners tied-up at Pyrmont, on
the afternoon of Saturday,
April 11, as the Sydney ferry
Kanangra passed. At the bow
of the Kanangra flew the flag
of the League of Ancient
Mariners. The Red Ensign was
at the stern.
These courtesies were
acknowledged by the raising of
brimming glasses and an odd
cup of tea (“Tea is available on
the lower deck for those that
want it,” said a rather con-
descending announcement over
the loud-speaker). And as the
ferry passed a couple of
National Line ships and an old
steamer of the Adelaide Steam-
ship Company, tied-up in
“Rotten Row” in these days of
surplus shipping, there were
sudden snatches of remini-
scence from men who had
served in them.
It is a remarkable occasion,
the annual excursion on Sydney
Harbor of a group of men,
more than 200 strong, which
is unique in the world the
League of Ancient
Mariners of New South
Wales.
Some of the mem-
bers are over ninety;
several are in their
eighties. Many of them
still command mer-
chantmen ; most of
them served with the
Navy during the war
and enjoy swapping
experiences. “My wife’s
over there w r atching
us,” said one captain,
pointing to a fine home
on a promontory.
“When I came in in
war-time 1 used to break
a regulation by a pri-
vate signal telling her
if I’d be able to get
home that trip. It was
very handy.”
Other members have
swallowed the anchor,
and are ashore as marine-
surveyors or marine-superin-
tendents or the like. Elderly
or not so ancient, they
share the indefinable look of
men who have battled with
the elements (as well as the
human enemies of one or two
wars). Their eyes are keen,
their cheeks leathery, their
voices strong and confident,
and their capacity for refresh-
ment extraordinary.
The annual excursion is at
once a celebration and a re-
union, an occasion for eating
and drinking together, for
yarning about ports and ship-
mates, for the nostalgic singing
of chanties, and for the simple
enjoyment for many of the
oldsters of being literally afloat
for a time.
For a landsman, a “lay
mariner,” whose personal en-
counters with sea-captains is
mostly confined to a brief
word with an authoritative, uni-
formed figure on its way to or
from the bridge, it is enlighten-
ing to see these people in
mufti and bent on enjoying
themselves. They do it with a
gusto that is in a long tradition,
and all too rare these effete
days ashore.
The 1959 excursion saw a
large roll-up of members from
Sydney, Newcastle and Port
Kembla. They took along
about a hundred guests, and
for five hours they all cele-
brated, afloat and ashore.
The day began officially at
12.30 p.m., but there were
groups of “ancient” salts at
Circular Quay long before
that hour, greeting each other,
noting with sympathy the signs
of advancing age, recalling
former gatherings of the league
and chance meetings in distant
corners of the world. The day
was squally, with some heavy
showers, but there were no
oilskins and few overcoats.
They are a hardy race, these
old skippers.
The free bar on board
Kanangra opened as soon as
the ferry cast-off (a few
moments late to allow some
elderly latecomers to jump
aboard), and it did a roaring
trade for the fifteen minutes or
so needed to reach Rush-
cutter Bay. There the ferry
tied-up to a pontoon, and the
party transferred to a launch
to go ashore at the naval estab-
lishment of H.M.A.S. Rush-
cutter, traditional venue of the
annual luncheon.
At the newly-painted hall the
member deputed for the job
collected more than 200 tickets,
and let in a lot of people who’d
forgotten their tickets because
he trusted their faces. The
food was good, a special
service of sea-pie with dump-
lings and potatoes in their
jackets. There was ample to
drink, there were the chanties
led in a fine bass by Cap’n
David Craven, of the Maritime
Services Board, there were
some salty stories, the toast of
of the league was honored.
Then a league-member, W.G.
Walkley, of Arnpol, told how
a 33,000-tonner was being built
in Australia for his company,
and hoped that eventually . a
40,000-tonner would be built
here, a remark which was
loudly applauded. Guests were
welcomed, there were other
toasts, and it was nearly three-
o’clock when the party emerged
into the sunshine. A few
paused to watch the naval boys
doing judo, but most made for
the launch with alacrity. A
few steadying hands were
needed, especially in the trans-
fer from the launch back to
Kanangra.
Then the ferry headed west-
ward, with a three-man
orchestra playing bravely above
the din of greetings and yarns.
The bar was still highly
popular, but there were keen
eyes for the ships at the berths
west of the Bridge, for those
lying in the stream and for
a variety of port details. The
cruise reached its turning-point
about Gladesville, and on the
way home the ferry circled
Cockatoo Island and nosed its
way into Pyrmont, where the
old Orcades, with its fine
raked funnels and masts, con-
trasted with the huge stack of
the Iberia and the modernistic
Southern Cross.
The setting sun, or some-
thing, seemed to stimulate the
general nostalgia to a high
pitch. There were more
chanties, and the perspiring
bar-attendants saw, with
apparent relief, the end of the
bottles of whisky and the dis-
appearance of the beer. As the
Kanangra passed under the
Bridge about five-o’clock, and
headed into the Quay, the
whole gathering sang “Auld
Lang Syne” with a deep (or high)
feeling which demonstrated the
bonds of brotherhood among
mariners old and young, sur-
vivors of the age of sail and
pioneers of the diesel-tankers.
T'he league’s objects are to
promote and encourage the
social intercourse and welfare
of its members, to cultivate a
knowledge of the usages and
the interests of the Merchant
Service, to preserve its tradi-
tions, songs, “and all matters
relating to its past and present
conditions.”
To one landlubber at least
these excursions prove how
admirably those objectives are
fulfilled.
He has known his sponsor
since they were at school
together at the age of eight, he
recalls him as a ship's “peggy”
in a grimy Newcastle collier
and later as a smart apprentice
in one of the Commonwealth
“Bay” steamers in the early
"twenties. These occasions
make him realise just how
much the comradeship of the
sea means to his friend, and
to all the mariners in that com-
pany and all over the seas and
oceans of the world.


American officials will have these views
well to the fore in their mind.
McEwen, and indeed the whole
Cabinet, hope that out of the “Food for
Peace” talks will come a co-ordinated
plan to enable America and other
countries to dispose of their surplus
agricultural products, particularly wheat,
while protecting the interests of estab-
lished traders in these commodities.
If the conference turns out to be an
American stunt to whitewash its own
activities in this field, while at the same
time seeking to widen the area of their
application, Australia will be the loudest
of all nations in its protests around the
conference-table.
As McEwen pointed out, any big
fall in Australia’s export-earnings as
a direct result of American disposals
programmes would limit the whole de-
velopment programme of this country.
POLITICAL POINTS
Many of Monty’s critics are attacking
him for saying on TV what they’ve
already said in print themselves.
• •
Although counting in the Tasmanian
election is far from complete it seems
certain that Labor will continue its long
run which began in 1934. The probable
composition of the new Assembly is
Labor, 18; Liberal, 15; Independents,
2. The Independents will be former
Treasurer Turnbull, who retained his seat
in Bass, and W. G. Wedd, who made a
comeback in Denison, which he repre-
sented from 1948-53.
Premier Reece claimed on Saturday
night that his party now had a clear
majority for the first time since 1948.
After ten years balancing on a knife-
edge probably even a majority of one
is acceptable, though if a Labor Speaker
is appointed, his casting-vote will be
needed on all issues that don’t get the
support of the Independents. It is pos-
sible that Reece may ask Wedd to accept
the Speakership. He held the post in
1948-50.
• •
U.S. poultry-farmer Stanley Yankus is
to settle in Australia because he’s tired
of having Government officials tell him
how to run his farm. Wait till he tries
to sell his eggs outside the Egg Board!
• •
Pressure is being put on Treasurer
Holt to make himself a “man among
men” by reducing the excise on beer.
An U.L.V.A. deputation asked for a
cut of 3s. 6d. a gallon, which would
reduce the price of the middy by 14d.
or 2d. They argued that the reduction
in the rate would be compensated for
by increased sales of beer, quoting what
happened when the excise on brandy was
reduced a couple of years ago.
« •
Judgment has been reserved in the
Queensland Supreme Court in an in-
teresting case in which the right of an
M.L.A. to hold a Crown lease has been
challenged. O. F. Hobler is claiming
£5OO from Vincent Edward Jones,
Country-party M.L.A. for Callide, on the
ground that he is breaching the Queens-
land Constitution Act by sitting as an
M.L.A. while “enjoying the benefit of a
contract for and on behalf of the public
service.”
• •
The slightly triumphant hum that could
be heard in Sydney on Monday was
electricity from the first of four 80,000-
kilowatt generators at the Snowy Moun-
tains Scheme’s T 1 hydroelectric station
1200 feet underground near Cabramurra,
which is now being fed into the N. S.
Wales system. The second generator
will begin feeding-in its power by the
end of this week and the remaining two
in a few months’ time.
• •
The Doc. appears to want to pull-out
Seato’s teeth and give it a baby’s com-
forter.
• •
Adelaide “Advertiser” headline:
“Chamberlain expected to be renamed.”
Wonder what they’ll call him this time?
• •
C. J. Campbell, mayor of Lismore,
who failed by two votes to dislodge
sitting member J. S. Easter from the
Lismore seat at the N.S.W. State election,
is asking the Court of Disputed. Returns
to reverse the result and give him the
seat. Easter was the endorsed Country-
party candidate ; Campbell nominated as
an Independent C.P. candidate. Grounds
of the appeal are apparently to be
announced later.
GHOST-TOWN
“They dug everything out of it they could, and then cleared-out for the winter.”


Perth’s new bridge across the Narrows,
which the Hawke Government had pro-
posed to name the Golden West Bridge,
will now be named the Narrows Bridge,
the new Cabinet having sensibly agreed
with those critics who maintained the
public would call it just that, no matter
what official title was attached to it. A
parallel would be an attempt to fasten
a grandiloquent title to Sydney’s Spit
Bridge. Premier Brand expects the
Perth bridge to be ready for traffic by
November.
e •
When the Chinese People’s Congress in
Peking repeated its charge that “Indian
expansionists” had encouraged the rebels
in Tibet, Nehru said they were using the
language of the cold war. At least one
of the delegates was using the language
of Big Bill Thompson, onetime mayor of
Chicago. He said, “The Chinese people
will never allow foul hogs to poke their
snouts into our beautiful garden.” Big
Bill’s gem was “King George had better
keep his dirty snout out of Chicago.”
• •
Speaking on the adjournment in the
N.S.W. Assembly former Country-party
leader Davis Hughes made a personal
explanation in reply to statements that
he had wrongly allowed the letters B.Sc.
to appear after his name in “Hansard.”
The qualifications that I possess are
from the University of Tasmania. They
are Education I, which was then a second-
year arts subject, Pure Mathematics I,
Applied Mathematics 1, Chemistry 1 and
Physics I; in second-year, Chemistry 11,
with distinction, and Physics II; and in
third-year, Chemistry 111, with distinction.
After gaining these qualifications I was
transferred to Melbourne in the teaching
profession, where it was necessary, to get
a Melbourne degree, to complete a third-
year subject. I took the third-year subject
of Chemistry in Melbourne, but stilt
required another second-year subject to
complete the course. In other words,
the degree was not complete in either
university; in Melbourne I was one pure
science subject short of completion, and
in Tasmania, two subjects. I might add
that, for financial reasons, I was unable to
pursue a full-time university course. The
subjects that I have outlined were done
as part-time courses while I was a student
at the teachers’ college or while I was
doing other work. They are the qualifica-
tions that I possess. In the old “Hansard”
the initials B.Sc. stood against my name,
but I want to say that this is not true.
Though I saw them in “Hansard” I did
not take the necessary action to have them
removed.... I admit it was a grave weak-
ness on my part in not making sure that
the description B.Sc. was removed from
“Hansard.” I shall go further and say
that I see no distinction between that
and claiming the particular degree. I say
straight out to the House that this is
the precise position—l did not take the
necessary action. I understand the same
position obtains in the records of the Royal
Australian Air Force. In June, 1940, I
made the following statement in my applica-
tion to the Air Force:
I have read for a Bachelor of Science
Degree, completing it in the following
subjects
and I outlined the actual subjects. Appar-
ently more was taken from that statement
than was actually intended. I do not
wish to pursue the matter further, except
to say 1 very much regret the position.
So far as I am able to say, I have outlined
the true situation.
• •
“Stromlo”: Arbitrary methods of the
Taxation Department have been exposed
“Carsh , Pop —real Koka-kolas !"
by the taxation boards-of-review from
time to time. One of the latest instances
reveals what was obviously an
unwarranted refusal by the tax authori-
ties to permit a legitimate deduction. A
farmer-and-grazier who went on a
travel-agency’s “world farm tour” spent
£1966 during the taxable year, but his
claim for a deduction was totally dis-
allowed, although he had studied over-
seas methods of fodder-conservation and
winter-feeding, which he later applied
successfully to his Australian property.
The board, while stressing that each such
case should be decided on its particular
facts, allowed a deduction of £lOOO. How
many taxpayers have accepted similar
improper departmental rulings without
protest?
• •
Queensland is to open-up for settle-
ment ly-million acres of land in the east-
central portion of the State, Premier
Nicklin announced after a Cabinet meet-
ing at Rockhampton last week. There’s
also to be subdivision for closer settle-
ment of several hundred square-miles of
pastoral holdings for which the leases
expire this year.
• •
In the “Love Nasser” campaign now in
progress among most of the Western
nations, the arrogant detention by the
Egyptians of a Liberian ship carrying
potash and fruit-juices from Israel to
Ceylon and Malaya, and the impounding
of the goods, has not been given the
publicity it merits. This defiance, not
merely of the Constantinople Convention
but of the 1956 Security Council resolu-
tion, is a warning that if we are to
treat with Egypt, that little nation with a
bloated idea of its own importance must
be told firmly that it has no right to
molest the ships of any nation. Freedom
of navigation through the Canal is
indivisible.
• •
“Emel”: Someone’s been getting his
members and electorates mixed —or
perhaps his times. It’s eight years since
E. D. Mackinnon represented Wannon
(B. 22/4/’59) and 10 years since W. G.
Turnbull was member for Wimmera.
Their present seats are Corangamite and
Mallee respectively; Malcolm Fraser
holds the Wannon seat and Robert King
displaced W. R. Lawrence as M.H.R.
for Wimmera last November.
• •
Whether part of a paddock near
Richmond (N.S.W.) is an island or not
and whether it belongs to the people
who have been paying rates on it for
years or to the Crown are questions to
be decided in relation to Clark’s Island,
past which (and in flood-time around
which) the Hawkesbury River flows.
B. S. L. Deane, Liberal M.L.A. for
Hawkesbury, raised the matter when the
owners of the property read in the press
that the N.S.W. Lands Department had
leased the “island” for sand- and gravel-
mining.
Deane says that Mrs. E. J. Pauli and
her son pay rates on 76 acres of land,
which includes most of the 25 acres
comprised in the “island”; also that
maps as far back as 1883 show the
“island” as part of the grant. The Lands
Department says the Paulis’ boundary
stops at the flood channel and that if
they’ve been paying council-rates on a
bigger area that’s their pigeon. The
Valuer-General apparently regards the
“island” as private property ; he included
it in a revaluation of the Paulis’ land
only a year or so ago.


Personal
ITEMS
At 36 lan Beaurepaire becomes chair-
man of Olympic Consolidated Industries,
one of the youngest men ever to be
appointed to a top post in Australian
industry. He is a son of that Olympian,
Sir Frank, who founded the Beaurepaire
Tyre Service in the early 1920’s and, from
it, the great rubber companies now known
as 0.C.1.
lan Beaurepaire went to Carey and
Scotch, and he rowed for Scotch in 1940,
but next year he had begun at the bottom
at Olympic, and the year after that he
had joined the R.A.A.F. as an armorer.
He remustered and became a Kittyhawk
pilot in New Guinea and the steamy
islands close-by.
Olympic’s new chairman is also the
baby of the Melbourne City Council.
At 34, on the death of his father, he
won his ward unopposed.
• 0
Sir Raphael Cilento, expert on tropical
diseases, and president of the Royal
Historical Society of Queensland, is also
chairman of the official historical com-
mittee for Queensland’s Centenary Year
celebrations. Sir Raphael is editor-in-
chief of the official history, Triumph in
the Tropics, which is scheduled for pub-
lication in August. No complete history
of Queensland has ever been written;
Triumph in the Tropics is an attempt to
tell some of the story of the northern
State’s origin and development from the
days of the earliest sea- and land-
explorers to the present time. The history
will emphasise the triumph of the white
man over a tropical and sub-tropical
environment. All Queensland lies be-
tween latitude 10° and 29° south, and
therefore in those latitudes that were
considered, until comparatively recent
years, “fatal to the white man.” It was
in Queensland that this age-old canard
was added to many other exploded
myths.
0 0
Fred Hoinville, the skywriting stunt-
pilot who was killed at Goulburn
(N.S.W.) the other day when his new
German light aircraft hit a fence while
taking-off, could write just as well on
paper as he could 15,000 ft. up across
the heavens. His short-stories and articles
appeared in numerous Australian maga-
zines. Recently he completed a highly
regarded slab of autobiography, Half-
way to Heaven, due to be published
shortly.
One of Australia’s best-known pilots,
he had been stunting or skywriting for
a living since he left the R.A.A.F. in
1945. In his veteran Tiger Moth, Brolga,
he’d write anything from ads. for head-
ache-powders to Bible texts —at a fee of
about £4O a pop. Lean, tanned, tee-
totaller, he had the business to himself
in every State. Throwing a Moth round
like a drunken mosquito in near-freezing
temperature at 15,000 ft. to write smoke-
words upside down and backwards is
just not everyone’s cup of tea.
0 0
James Macdonald Holmes, Professor
of Geography at Sydney University, was
sketched for The Bulletin in his map-
littered room before he left to attend
the annual conference of the American
PROFESSOR
Association of Geographers, in Pitts-
burgh—a renewal of pleasant relations
on several counts. In 1948 a review of
Holmes’s Murray Valley filled the Red
Page—the entire, elongated page of those
days— -treatment calculated to make any
author think kindly of the paper.
But it goes further back: Holmes was
a foundation-councillor of the Flying
Doctor Scheme with the late Phil Prior,
Bulletin director and Queensland
manager ; this drawing was done by a
nephew, Bill Prior; and the professor
asked to be remembered to Miss Oates,
Phil's right-hand in the Brisbane office
and now in charge there.
In America, and later in England, where
he will be the guest of the British Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Science at
its conference at York, Professor Holmes
will tell his brother-geographers some-
thing about the Flying Doctor Scheme,
North Australia, and the Keyline tech-
nique of land-development.
Holmes’s interest in land - matters is
fairly well - known. He is also a keen
bush-walker, and of late years has spent
about three months out of every 12
looking over the North. The fruit of
these wanderings, Borderlines of Empire.
is now with the printer. An ancestry of
China-clipper captains on the paternal
side and farmers on the maternal per-
haps provides a clue to his taste for
space and earth. Australia’s first full-
time Professor of Geography, he came
to Sydney from Glasgow, via Newcastle-
on-Tyne when the Uni.’s geography
department was run more-or-less on a
part-time basis (his predecessor, Griffith
Taylor, fjqd left some years before) and
no other Australian university had a
geography department.
• •
Stewart Scott-Hall, who has come to
Australia as scientific adviser to the U.K.
High Commissioner and chief of the
British Ministry of Supply staff, will have
as his main interests rocket-research and
weapon-testing, in close collaboration
with the Australian Department of
Supply. Formerly scientific adviser to the
Air Ministry, he recently headed the
British mission to the U.S. for interchange
of. scientific information.
0 •
The Bulletin lost its favorite teller
last week with the retirement of R. T.
(Ray) Kidd from the National Bank’s
North George Street (Sydney) branch.
Ray was part of the atmosphere of the
branch, as well as a fixture there for
18 years. He would have received The
Bulletin’s confident recommendation
for a job in the Bank of England. He
saw several managers come and go.
Customers of the bank gave him a fare-
well party on the premises on April 27,
and Colonel M. F. (“Mick”) Bruxner,
leader of the N.S.W. Country party for
so many years, in making the presenta-
tion, mentioned that he and Ray had
worked together early in life in the same
branch (about the size and style of a
signal-box) in Tenterfield. Ray Kidd is
also well known in Lismore, where he
was also a teller. He retires among the
fascinating surroundings of Elizabeth
Bay, just below King’s Cross, where he
has lived for several years.
0 o
Marking the first time in 54 years that
Melbourne’s biggest synagogue (at St.
Kilda) has had a new minister, the Rev.
Dr. Simon Herman, of Harrow Syna-
gogue, London, has been appointed
senior minister there in succession to
Rabbi J. Danglow. Dr. Herman, who
takes-over in September, was educated at
the Jews College, London, and at London
University.
0 0
A much-bemedalled New Australian,
who served in three armies during World
War 11, 59-year-old Alexander Horoch,
marched with a small Polish detachment
in Perth’s Anzac Day parade this year.
Born at Lwow (Poland), he fought in
his own country against the Germans in
1939, escaped, and then served in the
French Army until the fall of France,
after which he crossed the Channel to
join the British Army. His service with
the British included the Battle of Britain,
the Narvik expedition, the fighting in


Italy and at Arnhem. He is now settled
in Victoria Park, Perth.
• •
Len Stephen, 23-year-old farmer of
Goomboorian (Q.), has been chosen for
this year’s award of the overseas-travel
scholarship sponsored by the Nestle Co.
in co-operation with the Junior Farmers’
movement. He will travel for about five
months in America, living and working
on American farms and studying farm-
ing-methods, particularly in connection
with dairying. From America he will
go to England, where he will visit various
dairyfarms before heading homeward.
• •
George Frederick Dickinson, who had
been ailing for some time before he
passed on at his Lindfield (Sydney)
home on the day after Anzac Day, was
himself one of the Originals, with the
old 15th Battalion. His age (64 at the
end) underlined with emphasis the
quality of his soldiering: in 1916 he
became the youngest major in the whole
British forces: he was G. 5.0.3 of the
4th Australian Division at 21. He copped
it badly at Quinn’s, but he soldiered on
afterwards through France: he was a
Monash choice as a staff-officer, and
won the D.S.O. and the Russian Order
of St. Stanislaus, and was twice men-
tioned in dispatches. Hailing originally
from the N.S.W. Tweed River (where,
at Murwillumbah, a schoolmate of his
was G. F. R. Nicklin, present Premier
of Queensland), he really began his
soldiering as a boy: he was one of the
picked Australian cadets who went to
London for the 1911 Coronation. After
War I he did just as well in Civvy Street,
going up all the rungs from a clerkship
to the managership of the Common-
wealth Bank (Sydney).
A. G. MULLER, M.L.A. for Fassifern
(Q.) since 1935, Deputy Leader of the
Queensland Parliamentary Country Party
since 1947, and Minister for Lands and
Irrigation since 1957.
Methodist Minister Rev. Dr. C.
Maxwell Churchward was off back to
Tonga in April alter relieving at a church
in Deniliquin (N.S.W.). This time he is
to lead in the revision of the translation
of the Tongan Bible under the auspices
of the British and Foreign Bible Society
and the Combined Church and Mission
groups in Tonga. A recognised authority
on Polynesian languages, Dr. Church-
ward was previously commissioned by
the Tongan Government to compile a
complete Tongan grammar and a Ton-
gan-English dictionary. This was com-
pleted in 1954. In his younger days he
served for 15 years as a missionary in
Roturna and Fiji, after which was pub-
lished his Rotuman Grammar and
Dictionary and later a New Fijian
Grammar. His brother, Spencer Church-
ward, who died recently in Melbourne,
had done similar work with the Samoan
language.
e •
Every four years the Turnbull Trust,
founded by the well-known Victorian
Western Districts family, brings a noted
English or Scottish preacher for a few
months to Scots Church, Melbourne.
This year the Rev. Professor James
Stewart is coming. He holds the chair
of New Testament Literature and
Theology at the University of Edinburgh,
is an ex-Moderator of the Presbyterian
Church and a chaplain in Scotland to
the Queen, and is rated as one of the
finest preachers ever heard at Morning-
side, the largest church in Scotland in
the Scottish denomination. Under the
terms of the Turnbull Trust he will
preach for 16 Sundays at Scots, and it
will probably be difficult to get near the
church, morning or night. The Trust was
founded about 30 years ago.
. © 9
The Miles Franklin award for 1958 —
£5OO for the best Australian novel pub-
lished during the year —went to the young
Westralian novelist Randolph Stow,
whose novel was To the Islands. Stow,
who was also awarded a prize at the Mel-
bourne Book Fair recently, hasn’t been
able to collect either piece of loot in
person —he’s away in New Guinea as a
patrol-officer.
• •
One of the highest Victorian public
posts —Government member on the State
Public Service Board has gone to
William Thomas Place, secretary of the
Education Department for the last four
years. Beginning his teaching-career in
1920 with a couple of dozen pupils at
Alma, a small mining-village near Mary-
borough, he moved eventually to Educa-
tion Department headquarters, where
much of his recent work has been in
the post of Chief Clerk. In War II he
took time out first as operations officer
with No. 2 Squadron at Darwin and
later was attached to Intelligence at
R.A.A.F. headquarters.
• •
In the parlance of the Senior Service
he represents as Lieut.-Commander Fitz-
morris in the British musical “Grab Me
A Gondola,” now running' at Sydney
Empire (and which he produced), Johnny
ACTOR LADD
Ladd came up to the theatrical quarter-
deck “through the hawsepipe.” At just
under 23, after having put in five years
in the R.A.F., he kicked-off in civvy life
doing some photographic - modelling in
men’s clobber before drifting into “bit”
parts in films. Followed variety comic
turns and pantomime, and when a comic
part in an ice-show r loomed ahead he
grabbed it, though he hadn’t been on the
steel blades before. He has, in fact, been
self-taught in every aspect of the theatre.
He picked-up script-writing like the bloke
on the trapeze, and producing shows
came just as easy. And he is one of the
few theatricals who can truthfully claim
he has played at Lords —even though it
was on a stage. It happened when he
appeared there with a Service theatrical
party in War 11.
• •
Elected a Fellow of the Industrial
Medical Association of America, Dr.
Sydney Crawcour, of Melbourne Uni-
versity, won the award with his work
in industrial-medicine. The honor was
accorded him at the Industrial Health
conference being held in Chicago.
t • •
t
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 93, William Minton, who
used his earnings as a painter to establish
the first poor-boys’ home in Melbourne.
Found dead at his desk at Yule Island
station (Papua), the headquarters of his
Vicariate, Andre Sorin, M.S.C., who for the
past 13 years had been Bishop and Vicar
Apostolic of Port Moresby. Born in France
(1903), he became a Sacred Heart Missionary
after 18 months’ service with the French Army,
and before going to Papua in 1931 he spent
a few months in Australia. He was well known
to Australian troops in Papua during World
War 11.
In Melbourne, at 78, Rev. J. McD. Forsyth,
former Moderator of the Presbyterian Church
in South Australia.
At Ballarat (Vic.), at 72, Rev. A. S. Nicholas,
who was Anglican chaplain to the old 4th
machine-gunners in Egypt and Palestine in
War I.


ABORIGINALITIES
"youNG Bill, from Wangaratta (Vic.),
sits his horse Aussie-style, as befits
a bloke who’s been travelling stock ever
since he was born. His father’s a boss-
drover, and his mother tg,kes the family
caravan from one night-camp to the next
and cooks for the outfit, with Bill’s
younger brother as cook’s offsider. At
present Bill’s riding with his father
droving 860 cattle, which they picked-up
at Grafton (N.S.W.) and are taking to
Moree, where they’ll add a further 800-
head before going on to Walgett, from
where they’ll head the mob south for
their home-town, know as “Wang.”
After this 1000-mile trip, Bill will be an
experienced drover by any standard —for
a five-year-old. His little brother is two.
—“Manamoi.”
* * * *
“Nimrod”: Main feature of this year’s
Kalgoorlie-Boulder (W.A.) Community
Fair was a shovelling competition. By
bogging 35 shovelfuls each minute, 321 b.
at a throw, a Kalgoorlie miner named
Linz-Verca shifted a ton of ore in under
two minutes, thereby gaining the world-
title. A miner also filled second-place,
although nowadays you'd have a job to
find a shovel underground ; it’s all done
mechanically. In fact, to get into con-
dition one of the contestants had to take
a job digging sewerage-trenches for the
Kalgoorlie Council.
* * * *
“Jacky”: The latest for N.T. abos. is
three weeks’ walkabout on full pay, as
they are now holding their jobs long
enough to get paid annual holidays at
native resorts such as Snake Bay,
Shoal Bay, and various islands where
corroborees take the place of pyjama-
parties, and spear and woomera are more
useful than tennis-rackets or golf-clubs.
For the less energetic, the most attractive
resort is a shady banyan-tree for three
weeks “sitting-down walkabout” at the
boss’s expense.
"It’s gone ahead a lot since I Was here last ."
“Agricola”: The local dairymen’s
meeting, having finished a session of
hate on margarine, the price of butter
and farm-costs, had come to the presi-
dent’s report, tabled for adoption. A
recommendation in it that the treasurer
be granted an extra pound a month for
stamps and phone-calls, brought old
“Jersey” Joe to his feet, with all guns
blazing. “A flamin’ quid a month!” he
roared. “What’s this supposed to be —-
the Richardson Report?”
® * * *
“Miss M.”: You know that legendary
bloke who sat on the tree-limb while he
sawed it off ? I’ve just met his grandson.
Young Joe, determined to learn to rope,
cowboy-fashion, began practising on foot,
lassooing a post. When he’d become
fairly expert he had a go on horseback.
In the absence of a saddle-horn he tied
the end of the rope round his chest,
then cantered briskly past the post and
cast his loop, all too successfully. Which
is how I came to nurse him.
♦ * *
“Margaret”: While I watched the
Olympic jumping at our country show,
Susan, immaculately jodhpured, pigtails
looped neatly below velvet huntsman’s-
cap, explained how much riders and
horses had improved since my day. “For
instance,” she said, indicating the gaily-
painted objects scattered about the ring,
“you didn’t have jumps like that, did
you?” Well, no, we didn’t; but, apart
from their strange appearance (one hopes
it’s true that horses are color-blind), they
are not, as jumps, so formidable. I don’t
think they’d have daunted the riders of
my day, nor those horses I remember
hopping cat-like over wire-fences, more
difficult to judge and disastrous to hit.
And then there was the high-jump, now
vanished from many country shows. In
my memory, few girls competed, but my
mother’s girlhood friends, those fragile
Victorian damsels, thought nothing of
sailing over the bars at 6ft. and upwards
—riding side-saddle!
* * * *
“Wippegong”: If those black swans
ever do reach the outer moat of the
Imperial Palace in Tokyo (B. 18/3/’59),
they’d better be careful how they lower
and operate their undercarriages during
winter; otherwise, instead of cleaving
a noble wake as on our own lakes and
lagoons, they will crack the back of
their heads on the ice and bust their
diffs. against the far bank. Christmas
in ’45 found us heaving bricks—there was
plenty of rubble in Tokyo then—right
across the frozen surface of that moat,
THE FOREST
These reaches where the bellbirds are,
The quiet gullies fading like great pillared
halls ,
Are beyond location, are strange with
time;
See, for ever in small steps the water falls.
You could run between the bracken,
Could shout against the immensity of
trees
Yet in a decade lapse to hear still
The water-voice, and your time fade in a
breeze.
Where are we then, in what old sense ;
In what great corridors, centred, do we
stray?
And where were we, what was the age
Whose noise this vast silence has taken
away?
Spring is here, yet only a ripple
That brings quiet things together then
disbands ;
There was an age when first we left here ;
See, down at your feet, mauve, a fringe-
lily stands.
O forest, you were hard; our fingers
Taught our dreamers to escape from your
green pain
And now, wandering here within you,
You deceive our time and claim us back
again.
Vic.
NOEL MACAINSH.


V •
(v\inp if i eer sc«vep
NfeXfp iVe GPT A TAXI
WAITIMG OPT-SIDS. /y
fes, i po
I've Got 4
Ate
/rnv/n .
UJAtTtNG OOT’S •


with appropriate disregard for the alleged
sanctity of its waters, as befitted the
circumstances of our presence there. If
the swans do settle-in, they will not be
the only black birds about; a highlight
amongst bird-memories was the sight of
a wavy phalanx, over half-a-mile across,
of black cormorants, beating into a
cold sunset from the sea and following
the curve of that moat. Maybe they were
accustomed to roosting near it; there
are some good clumps of trees nearby,
and in a park where the pines wear straw
rugs lashed to the trunks during winter
any camp that allowed the fowl to snuggle
close would be in demand. On the other
hand, the shags might have been con-
forming to tactics
evident in the shat-
tered city below, and
merely scouting for
unworthy fish to
drop in lap of hon-
orable occupation-
gentlemen.
* *
“Ex-Quiz-King”:
“The Irishman” (B.
8/4 / ’59) is on a
wrong tack with
H.M. Bark En-
deavour (370 tons,
Lieut. James Cook
in command). A
model in National
Maritime Museum,
Greenwich, is
square-rigged on all
three masts. If the
ship was schooner-
rigged on the after-
mast, surely no naval
architect would
stand for such a
blue. Cook’s Journal
always speaks of
“the Ship” (capital
“S”), never “barque.”
The word “bark”
is cognate with the
Italian and Spanish
word barca, mean-
ing a ship, and at
first was used in
English as a poetic term for any ship:
e.g., “Steer my bark to Erin’s Isle”
(Moore), “My bark is on the sea”
(Byron); also “embark” and “disem-
bark.” Only later came the special mean-
ing of “barque” for a ship rigged fore-
and-aft on the after-mast and square-
(or ship-) rigged on the others. Actually,
ship-buiiders called Endeavour a “cat-
"built” ship, having round, bluff bows,
deep waist, and thus slow at sea.
* * * *
“Sawtell”: New widely-advertised pro-
cess for scouring wool on the sheep’s
back supposedly removes the grease,
“stale sweat,” etc., from the fleece. Now,
the question is, do sheep sweat? In
years of experience with jumbucks I’ve
always presumed that sheep, like dogs,
sweat through their tongues. Canines also
sweat through the pads of their feet, but
I don’t suppose this applies to sheep, or
we’d have permanent footrot to cope with.
"\JTarble Bar, which once ran a tern-
perature of over lOOdeg. each day
for 160 consecutive days, isn’t classed
officially as the most consistently hot
place in W.A. The distinction goes to
Wyndham, with an annual mean maxi-
mum of 93.1, and a mean minimum of.
66.2 for the coldest month. Marble Bar’s
annual mean maximum is higher at 96.2,
but for the coldest month the mean
minimum drops to 52.5, which indicates
some mighty cold nights. But the Bar
has one record which seems safe —its
mean maximum is the highest in Aus-
tralia. For five months of the year it’s
above the century, and for another it’s
99.9. “Mean” is the right word ! —“Spin.”
“I repeat, Corporal, that joy-riding on the Whispering
Warhead Missile must cease."
“Duke” Tritton: “Justin Thyme” (B.
18/2/’59) has the Norris brothers mixed-
up—there were four, not three, and all
had a bad spin regarding iimbs. Roley,
when shearing at Calga, cut his arm
and died of blood-poisoning. Bill, also
a shearer, lost a hand the same way.
He it was who had the pub at Cobborah,
and later at Gulgong. Jim (“Wingie”)
had no arms. He had a pub and a farm
at Tallawang; his wife ran the pub,
“Wingie” the farm. Horses had to be
harnessed, but with straps fitted to his
shoulders he would plough with the
single-furrow mouldboard, turning at the
headlands and ploughing as straight a
furrow as anyone. He filled and lit his
pipe as “J.T.” described —time, two
minutes. The fourth brother, Sid, of
Cullenbone, had a leg off at the hip, the
aftermath of a break when he jumped
off a table. A jovial old bloke, I knew
him over 15 years. Herb, his son, has
a property about two miles up the
Gulgong road from the old pub (which
is still standing and now used as a shear-
ing-shed). It was he who confirmed the
family-history.
* * * *
“Maitri”: When I saw what I took
to be three gumleaves lying on top of
an agapanthus-clump, I just passed by.
Then, thinking that I’d never before seen
such rich - brown, velvety - suede - like
leaves, I took another peek and found
they weren’t leaves at all but the most
unusual-looking moth I’d ever encoun-
tered. Its body and wings were some
3i-in. long, its legs and the bands round
its head were lemon-colored, while across
its tummy were dark-red lines interspersed
with sapphire - hued spots. It stayed in
the same spot all day, so we were able
to ask neighbors and tradesfolk if they’d
seen one like it previously. They hadn't.
Anybody know?
It * * *
the antiquity of human occupation
of Australia (discussed here a month
on so back) the South Australian
Museum’s anthropological research has
unearthed the following facts:
The final phase of the Icc Age (which
radiocarbon-dating has established as
ending some 10,000 years ago) locked up
so much water that ocean-levels sank
about 250 ft. lower than they are today,
laying bare great areas of land.
Human-beings were able to enter
Britain by walking across what is now
the North Sea. There were land-bridges
connecting the American continent and
Asia, and Australia and South-east Asia.
New Guinea and Tasmania were both
joined with Australia. The few remaining
ocean-channels between this country and
Asia could be crossed with ease on rafts.
First to come were Negritos, who
reached Tasmania and once lived on
most of the mainland. The S.A. Museum
obtained the skeleton of one of these
people from a rock matrix on the Lower
Murray, and some natives exactly akin
to the now extinct Tasmanians are still
living on the Atherton Tableland
(N.Q.). This Museum has also obtained,
from 8000-year-old Negrito camp-sites
on the mainland, bones of diprotodons
and other large extinct creatures which
had been charred in fires and smashed
to extract the marrow, proving that the
first arrivals used these animals as food.
The dingo did not arrive until later,
probably brought as a domestic dog by
the Murrayians, who drove out or
absorbed nearly all original Negritos on
the mainland. This dog went wild in
Australia and killed out the Tasmanian-
wolf and Tasmanian-devil by competing
for food-supplies, but up to about 5000
years ago the abos. living in rock-
shelters on the Lower Murray were still
using the Tasmanian-devil as food and
making implements from its hard, dense
bones.
In all the great universities of the
world which specialise in anthropology
the above points are now accepted as
proved beyond any shadow of doubt.
H. A. L.


Meeting the Mokolkols
By D. M. FIENBERG
IN a report to the United Nations the Administration of the Trust Territory of New Guinea
Mr. C. Normoyle, Cadet Patrol Officer. . . . For more than a quarter of a century the Mokolkols
included the following: note:—
“The Mokolkol people were visited by Mr. D. M. Fienberg, Assistant District Officer, and
have been known to the Administration as y a small band of primitive nomads, apparently of
Gainings origin, living in the country at the foot of the Gazelle Peninsula. Administratively
they have enjoyed a notoriety disproportionate to their slight numerical importance, through
their long-standing habit of raiding outlying hamlets, wantonly butchering men, women and
children, and disappearing without trace. Before the war several patrols endeavored to get into
friendly contact with these people, but they were always met with hostility.”
This is the story of how
we finally succeeded in
taming the Mokolkols.
It was a stormy day
in July, 1950, and the pilot of
the Catalina flying-boat, out-
ward bound on a routine mail-
run from Rabaul Harbor to
Talasea Government station,
diverted from his normal
course to avoid a heavy rain-
squall. Instead of skirting the
coast, he turned inland over
the wild range-country that
separates Wide Bay from
Open Bay, just below the
Gazelle Peninsula of New
Britain. Flying between jungle-
clad, 5000 ft. peaks, he suddenly
emerged into a patch of clear
sky, and was considerably
intrigued to observe on a ridge’
a -small, neat village, flanked
by a large taro-garden. But,
despite his interest, he did not
circle the area.
“The old D.C. will be keen
to hear about this,” he
remarked to his co-pilot.
Now, in the Trust Territory
of New Guinea observing
native villages from the air is
hardly a novelty. That moun-
tainous land is not only one
of the most-jumbled and least-
developed large areas on earth ;
it is also one of the most air-
minded. The use of light air-
craft to overcome the com-
munications problems posed by
densely forested, broken ter-
rain, unpredictably flooding
rivers, malaria and wild spear-
men, was first developed during
the Morobe gold-rush of the
1920’5.
In the early mining era it
took eight days of back-break-
ing toil for tough mountaineer
porters to hump their 401 b.
loads across the 40 miles of
ranges that separated the gold-
rich Bulolo Valley from the
tiny anchorage of Salamaua.
The supply-problems of the
booming alluvial fields
appeared insuperable, until
fragile little biplanes, manned
by hard-bitten pilots, began to
claw their way over the cloud-
topped Kuder Ranges, landing
their profitable freights (any-
thing from butter and explo-
sives and bottled-beer to cattle
and dredge-machinery) on the
crazy Wau airstrip, built, of
necessity, on a slope of 12deg.
Salamaua was obliterated
during the Pacific war, and is
now a romantic memory.
The light aircraft has continued
to feature prominently in the
exploration, administration,
commerce and evangelisation
of the Territory. In the high,
grassy valleys of central New
Guinea primitive Waghi tribes-
men have learnt to regard the
“balus” —the “iron pigeon” —
with easy familiarity, long
before they have seen a horse
or a motor-car.
The Catalina pilot was
intrigued by this village
because he knew he was over
uninhabited country: un-
inhabited, that is, except for
the legendary Mokolkols.
T ate that afternoon, in
Rabaul, I was finalising
some Tolai council-election
arrangements with the District
Commissioner when the pilot
strolled in. We listened to his
story and watched him plot-in
the approximate position of
the village on the huge district
wall-map.
Then McCarthy, the D.C.,
showed him a radio-message
that had been received only
the previous day. It was from
the patrol-officer at Pomio, 80
miles down the south New
Britain coast, and read
tersely:
Luluai of Kasalea reports Mokol-
kols raided outlying: hamlet .June
eleven killing: nine persons. Stop.
Investigating:.
“First we’ve heard of any
Mokolkol raids since the war,”
said McCarthy. “I was begin-
ning to hope they’d been rash
enough to try conclusions with
some wandering Jap patrol back
in forty-five, or had simply
died out. No such luck. Looks
as though it’s on again. This
village of yours,-Harry, taken
in conjunction with this Pomio
report, gives me an impression
that the old Moks are becom-
ing pretty confident again.
There’s been no patrol of ours
an their tails for eight years,
of course. Last time we found
anything like a permanent
settlement of theirs was Pen-
hallurick’s patrol, back in
’thirty-one.”
He groped for a cigarette
and ran a huge freckled paw
CAPTIVE MOKOLKOLS
through thinning ginger hair.
Irritably. “Damn them. This
means another special expedi-
tion just when we’ve got our
hands full.” Pointing to the
cross on the map: “For a
Mokolkol raiding - party it
wouldn’t be more than one
and a half days from there to
Kasalea. I’ll organise a part-
charter for your next run,
Harry, and we’ll take a look
at your secret city. Might be
stray Japs, of course.”
nro Keith McCarthy, husky
veteran of 25 years’ native
administration in the New
Guinea wilds, dealing with
tribal raids and killings was
part of the daily round.
Back in the early ’thirties, as
a young patrol-officer, he had
hunted down and arrested
doughty little Kukukuku bow-
men in their Morobe
mountain fastnesses. At that
time the Kuks were allergic to
prospectors. He had also sur-
vived arrow-wounds in the
groin and stomach, inflicted by
some of the captives’ friends in
an ambush on the return
journey.
He had served on the middle
Sepik River (where for nine
months of the year the mos-
quitoes are like stinging clouds
of smoke) pacifying swamp-
dwelling latmuls, for whom
homicide was a pre-requisite
for initiation into manhood.
An assistant district-officer
at Talasea when the Japanese
invaded New Britain, he had
been decorated for hazardous
work in organising the evacua-
tion of fugitives straggling out
of Rabaul, and had later served
with distinction as an Aus-
tralian Army lieut.-colonel in
the New Guinea and
Borneo campaigns.
But, as McCarthy
himself was ruefully
aware, even his hard-
earned knowledge of
the tactics and men-
tality of primitive
Papuo - Melanesian
flighting tribes pro-
vided few advantages
in coping with the
Mokolkols.
/"Vnf. evening a week
later 1 was in the
New Guinea Club,
washing the pumice-
dust from my throat
after a long day on
school - construction
out at Reimber, when
McCarthy landed -in
from his aerial recon-
naissance. Visibility
had been poor, but
they had circled the
area several times, and
he was confident that the tiny
village they had glimpsed was
not a hide-out of Jap remnants.
“I think they’re Mokolkols
all right,” said Keith, pouring
a glass of beer. “Houses
definitely Bainings type, and a
big taro-garden about half-a-
mile to the south-south-east.
Not going to be easy locating
the place from the ground. The
map seems to be out to hell
—doesn’t show half the ridges
of that upper Mavalu system.
It’s pretty broken limestone
country.”
“What’s the approach to the
village like?”
“It's in a little saddle between
(Continued on page 45)


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. URQUHART, M. D. PASSMORE. K. W. A. BRIDGES
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone Cables &> Telegrams
BWBI7I (3 lines) 8L5327 “EMDECELEX.” Sydney
DAVIS. StOTHWELL & CO.
(Incorporating Hecidlam, Hewson & Co.)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
C Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange .)
117 Pitt Street, Sydney. 193 Summer Street, Orange.
111. 1855 (3 lines) Orange 4054
Telegraphic and Cable Address, “RETEP," Sydney.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
WHY ARE YOU BUYING?
HThe freak sharemarket con-
ditions which are being
experienced not only in Aus-
tralia but in other parts of the
world also are agitating the
minds of most financial ob-
servers, and are probably
second only in importance in
polite conversation to the Billy
Graham crusade.
Last week saw prices for
favored stocks leap again.
The reasons for the rise in
the market have been given
here many times. The market,
after occasional setbacks, still
goes higher.
There is a tendency among
some observers to assume that
perhaps we are going to be
living in a financial world in
which these new sharemarket
conditions will persist, dis-
regarding yields and foresee-
able prospects, but looking
more or less for pie in the
sky by-and-bye.
Whatever sort of share-
market this strange new finan-
cial world may have brought
us, the intending investor would
be wise indeed to analyse his
own approach to the market,
and ask himself, first of all,
Why am l buying these
shares ?
Then: Atn / buying for an
immediate income which 1 con-
sider satisfactory to me ?
Am I buying because there
are prospects already visible
(in the stock itself) of increased
earning-power, higher dividends
and perhaps new capital-issues
later on ?
Am / buying to protect my-
self against inflation ?
Am I buying because 1 feel
that general expansion of the
country wilt bring greater scope
for the company which l favor
as an investment, even though
its present yield and production
and financial set-up do not in
themselves show anything very
attractive ?
Or: Am I buying because I
feel the market is going higher
anyway, regardless of income-
returns from stocks whether
over the short term or the long
term, and I hope to get out in
the end with a market profit and
in time to let someone else
carry the baby ?
The most dangerous motive
for buying will be the last one.
It is never sound practice for
an investor to buy on the prin-
ciple of in the end finding a
bigger sucker than himself to
carry the loss when a share-
market crashes, as in the end
boom markets inevitably do.
Those people who bought
oil and uranium shares on the
principle that “Charley says
“Guess what, Mummy—I got a rise!”
they’ll go to fifty-bob,” and
who watched them topp’e to
oblivion from 495., are not
far removed from those who,'
on the industrial sharemarket,
gamble on market “tone”
alone.
There is undoubtedly a scrip-
shortage throughout the world
today. Great technical and
industrial developments are
afoot. New financial measures
(though not complete in them-
selves) are available for deal-
ing with recessions. Also,
people, after taking years
to be educated to it, now
fear inflation. But some of
them have become mesmerised
by inflation as it surrounds
sharemarket factors, and ar#
unable to assess its likely in-
cidence in any particular case.
They have become something
like gold-hoarders of the
Moslem world, but on less
substantial grounds.
For a Three-year Hold
'T'here are a number of stocks
in the present highly-priced
market that give definite
promise of income-increment
over the next three years.
One. of these is Mauri Bros,
and Thomson (ord.). It is an
exceptionally strong company,
manufacturing and importing
bakers’, brewers’ and bottlers’
supplies, with widespread rami-
fications, but which does not
disclose the strength of its well-
heeled subsidiaries.
With its dividend then at the
rate of 15 p.c. p.a. a one-for-
one bonus-issue was made in
1952, after which the div.
dropped to 8 p.c., climbing to
9 p.c. in ’54, to 10 p.c. in ’55,
and 11 p.c. in ’56, when another
bonus-issue (one - for - two)
“went-off,” and the div. fell
back to 8 p.c. It rose to 9 p.c.
in 1958, and this year’s interim
is at the rate of 10 p.c. p.a.
suggesting a div. and bonus-
issue pattern similar to that in
previous years.
If no bonus-issue eventuates,
but if the div. instead rises to
12 p.c. by 1961, the return at
the present price of 48s. would
then be 5 p.c., against the
immediate return of £4 3s. per
cent, from a 10 p.c. div.
The stock in any case is a
very sound and expanding one.
It has a particularly wide and
varied net of subsidiaries, which
is being extended every year.
[Further “three-year hold-
ings’’ will be suggested in sub-
sequent issues.]
Wool and Shares
CTeing that share prices
(overall) in Australia did
not drop as a result of the
1958-59 fall in wool prices, it
seems unreasonable for them
to -rise (excepting, of course,
wool broking and pastoral
shares) now that wool prices
have shown some recovery.
One of the reasons for the
tall in wool prices seems to
have been the matter of obtain-
ing credit to finance stocks fol-
lowing credit-restrictions in
Britain and the U.S.A. last
year ; they had been preceded
by a drop in military expenoi-
tures. Since then there have
been a number of failures
among wool-dealers and specu-
lators overseas as a result of
the first fall in prices, and
clearing-up their affairs has
depressed the market further.
It is unlikely that the recent
rise in wool prices will con-
tinue in an unbroken upward
ascent to full recovery. There
are usually pauses and re-
actions. But with present easier
financial conditions the out-
look is more hopeful than it
was.. It would be more hope-
ful still if the U.S. Customs-
tariff on our w 001—254 cents
a pound, plus 64 p.c. ad val.
—were removed.
Uncle Sam is certainly a hard
fellow for Australia to trade
with, as Trade Minister Mc-
Ewen made clear last week.
H.-P. Still Booming
"Economists and Government
officials do not attach any
significance to the slight slump
in hire-purchase transactions
recorded in January—the latest


A. L. NEVSTT & CO.
A. I. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, R. A. McINNES, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Fife Buildingr,
2!)7 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 (4 Pines) P.O. Bov No. 1887 W
month for which figures are
available.
Rather do they read into the
figures a continuing period of
prosperity, in which Mr. and
Mrs. Citizen still want motoi-
cars, TV-sets, refrigerators and
a hundred-and-one other house-
hold items no longer termed
luxuries.
The average increase in Aus-
tralian’s’ indebtedness to h.-p.
companies for that period has
been between £5 million and
£8 million monthly, but in
January it increased by only
a little over £2 million.
The main reason was a slump
in purchases of new motor-
vehicles (including tractors),
which were the low'est since
June last year. There was also
a slight decrease in purchases
of plant and machinery and
of household goods.
Despite this, at the end of
January the public owed h.-p.
finance companies the gigantic
sum of £340,319,000—an all-
time high, and approximately
£7O million more than they
owed 12 months previously.
Officials explained that the
easing-off in purchases during
January was normal, following
the Christmas spree.
Most people found their
pockets light after the expense
of the goodwill season and did
not enter into new commit-
ments until they had bolstered
their capital a little.
Wool-selling Legislation
AT the Wool Trade Inquiry
in Sydney last week,
Meares, Q.C., said that the
Crown would ask the commis-
sion to recommend legislation
on wool-selling.
The main recommendations,
outlined by the Crown, were
that Sydney, Newcastle, Albury
and Goulburn should be de-
clared by an Act to be wool-
auction centres for the purpose
of the Act, that combinations
to restrain trade at such centres
should be illegal, and that lot-
trartsfers and pie-buying should
be illegal.
Provision would be made
for adding to the list of
authorised centres, or deletion
of fcentres from the list, but
only after an inquiry by the
Industrial Commission.
Legislation aimed at lot-
transfers should not only pro-
hibit such action by buyers,
other than in the case of one
buyer acting as a broker for
another, but would make it an
offence for a wool-selling
broker to transfer wool to any
person other than the buyer
unless, prior to the sale, that
person was registered with the
wool-selling broker as a
genuine brokerage client.
It should also be an offence
for any wool-selling broker to
register or transfer wool to
any registered person known
to be not a genuine brokerage
client, Mr. Meares submitted.
New Commonwealth Loan
The new Commonwealth
Security Loan which opens
today (May 6) offers bonds
maturing in February, 1962,
giving a yield of £4 3s. lOd.
per cent, and a long-term loan,
maturing December, 1979,
offering 5 p.c.
Terms are a little less
favorable to the bondholder
than last time.
The “special” bonds are
also varied slightly in the Com-
monwealth's favor. Series B
offer 4 p.c. up to 30/9/’62, 4\
p.c. from 1/10/"62 to 30/9 / ’63,
and 5 p.c. from 1 /10 / '63 to
30/9/’66. They are repayable
at par up to 30/9/’62, £lOl
from 1 /10 / ’62 to 30 /9 / ’64,
£lO2 from 1 /10 / ’64 to
30/9/’66, and £lO3 if held to
maturity (October 1, 1966).
Accrued interest will be paid
on redemption for each full
month from last interest-date.
The bonds may be cashed,
at par or at the foregoing
premiums applicable, on one
month’s notice at any time after
April 1, 1960.
Maximum holding is £5OOO
of A and B series combined.
For moderate-sized estates
they are an ideal (but short-
term) way of providing for
probate-duty, as, after April
next year, they can be cashed
without loss on a month’s
notice at any time.
M.L.C. Bonuses
A nother life-office is increas-
ing its bonus-rates. Policy-
holders of the Mutual Life and
Citizens’ have again received
increased rates, and are now
Faith in the
Future
Mothers’ Day will be honoured by hundreds of
millions throughout the world next Sunday. It is
a day from which we can draw a deep draught of
spiritual refreshment.
There is in this family devotion something
akin to the Faith we find in religion, whatever
that religion may be. For it is linked with the very
fact of our existence, and it calls up within us a
feeling of gratitude for the manifold blessings that
have come to us through a Mother’s love.
A few days ago I was reading an article on
the famous mothers of history. Some mothers
have influenced to an inspired height the lives of
children who were marked for greatness. Their
own names are upheld in reflection of the fame
they cradled.
But what we honour on Mothers’ Day has
not to do with earthly renown. In its widest sense
the day is one of homage to the dignity of all
motherhood —in every class and colour and creed,
among rich and poor, privileged and humble alike.
Particularly it is the day when each of us
remembers the Mother who brought us to life and
whose teaching and example made a lasting
impress on our forming minds.
Sprung from a simple flower-wearing custom,
this day goes now in world-wide observance. Its
-honouring proves that in the changing and
challenging times there are men and women who
can still hold, in act and aspiration, to the ideals
they learned at their mother’s knee. And that,
to me. speaks well for the future of humanity.
Let us approach this day tenderly, yet
manfully. It is easy to let sentiment seize us for
a few short hours. The true test of sincerity in
observing Mothers’ Day is that we carry its spirit
of dedication into every day, and make the courage
of our Mothers’ lives the pattern of our own.
H. Hastings Deening
Mothers’ Day,
1959.


GENERAL MOTORS
Acceptance Corporation, Australia
(Incorporated in U.S.A. - Limited Liability)
REGISTERED UNSECURED
NOTES
With principal and interest
UNCONDITIONALLY GUARANTEED
by General Motors acceptance Corporation, New York
2 YEARS
I YEAR
9 MONTHS OR 270 to 360 days
6 MONTHS OR 180 to 269 days
3 MONTHS OR 90 to 179 days
I MONTH OR 30 to 89 days
6% per annum
5£% per annum
4J% per annum
4£% per annum
3f% per annum
3£% per annum
Subject to a minimum of £5OO, investments may be in multiples of £lOO.
If you desire to invest for any period between 30 and 360 days you nominate
the exact date you desire your investment to mature. Rate of interest depends
on the length of the investment. For example, if the investment is made for
95 days, the rate is that specified for the 90-179 days period.
Applications for Notes can be accepted only on the printed form attached to
the prospectus. Copies of the full prospectus with application form obtainable
from:—
MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGES
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION, AUSTRALIA
D 142
at least 50 p.c. higher than
they were only five years ago.
The total cash value of the
£9,000,000 of bonuses distri-
buted to policyholders was
£5,273,497, compared with
£4,538,670 for 1957, an in-
crease of over 16 p.c.
Total new business was again
a record —140,459 policies assur-
ing £78,612,526 (£72,401,953
for 1957).
The total business in force
at the end of 1958 was repre-
sented by 1,645,394 policies
assuring (with bonuses)
£574,046,211.
In the Ordinary Branch the
earning-rate on funds was
£4 19s. 6d. p.c. (up 3s. lOd.)
before tax, and £4 14s. 4d. p.c.
(up 35.) after tax. Expenses
were 16.21 p.c. (16.23 p.c.
previous year) of premium in-
come.
In the Industrial Branch the
earning rate on funds was
£4 12s. 3d. (up 3s. Bd.) before
tax and £4 Bs. 7d. p.c. (up
ss. 4d.) after tax. Expenses
were 28.92 p.c. (28.06 p.c.
previous year) of premium
income.
Mount Isa
HPhe announcement by the
American Smelting and
Refining Co. (B. 29/4/’59) that
the co. and its overseas asso-
ciates intended to reduce their
production of lead caused some
wrong assumptions to be made.
The first impression was that
Mount Isa Mines would have
to reduce its lead production—
the American Smelting and
Refinery Co. holds 54 p.c. of
the issued capital of Mount
Isa Mines, Ltd.
However, as indicated by its
chairman, Mount Isa Mines
has already reduced its lead
production by almost 25 p.c.
by concentrating on mining the
more profitable copper deposits.
Although Mount Isa has
recognised the world over-
supply of lead, and has been
able to take appropriate action,
the Barriers may find the only
alternative to stockpiling is a
further reduction in production.
The U.S.A. is talking of lift-
ing restriction on lead imports
if exporting countries will
reduce production to the level
of world demand.
Queensland Cement Rights
HThe “rights” to Queensland
Cement’s one - for - three
issue at par have been subject
to sharp fluctuations. Theoreti-
cally, shares bought at 545.
prior to the issue put the rights
at 255. 6d.
After opening at 245. 6d. and
rising to 255., heavy selling
reduced the price to 225., with
recovery later to 235.
The money received from
the new issue will help finance
an expansion programme to
increase the capacity of the
plant by two-thirds and enable
it, with its Townsville associate,
North Australia Cement, Ltd.,
to meet the full cement require-
ments of Queensland and
Northern Rivers of N.S.W. for
the next 10 years.
At 235., with 20s. to pay on
May 30, the yield from the
10 p.c. dividend, which the
directors expect to maintain,
would be a shade over 4\ p.c.
Contracts for Robbs
T ismore-based Robbs Indus-
tries, Ltd., has announced
the signing of several large
contracts since the beginning
of the year.
The most recent was for the
construction of the School of
Rural Science at the New Eng-
land University at Armidale
(N.S.W.), The value of this
contract is estimated at
£288,808.
Subsidiary Robb and Brown
(shop-fitting and glass-sections)
has the contract for the
Chevron Hotel (Gold Coast).
A new 14-story wing is planned
for Chevron later this year.
Expansion by this subsidiary
should be further enhanced by
the easing of import-restric-
tion on glass. It is now possible
under the new scheme to
import over double the glass
previously allowed.
The 10 p.c. dividend paid
last year by Robbs Industries
is covered by an earning-rate
of 20 p.c. In the accounts at
September 30, 1958, reserves
stood at £73,445 on a capital
of £150,000. The ss. ordinary
shares have been selling at
ss. 6d. to yield 9 p.c.
Money for Investment
[From Canberra]
Touring 1958, according to
the Commonwealth Stati-
stician, new investment in
companies listed on the Stock
Exchanges totalled £162 million,
a jump of more than £6O
million over the previous
year’s figure. This investment
took the form of share-issues,
debentures, registered notes
and deposits.
The trend throughout the
year was one of increasing
investment, quarter by quarter,
rising from £26 million in the
first quarter of the year to £57
million in the last quarter.
A similar rising trend was
shown in investment com-
panies not listed on ’Change.
Investment in Common-
wealth bonds, and local-
government and semi-govern-
ment loans, last year totalled
£lB5 million, in only two
loans, while the first loan this
year was more than 100 per
cent, oversubscribed. The loan
was for £25 million, but closed
at £6O million.
The Commonwealth is now
offering another local loan. Un-
fortunately, response to over-
seas offerings hasn't been as
ready as on the local market.




SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THETRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“Grab Me a Gondola”
J.C.W.’s new English girl at
Sydney Empire, Sheila Bradley,
fully-fashioned, warm-voiced,
with an oval smile and a
platinum wig to her shoulders,
plays a film-star of the time
when Diana Dors was being
pushed into Hollywood pools
and Marilyn Monroe was going
in for culture ; but instead of
satirising them she makes them
seem rather nice.
She steals an English
columnist from his fiancee at
a Venice film-festival. The
fiancee sends a jealous report
in the columnist’s name, that
the film-star is having a wild
time with a Venetian prince.
As the film-star is parading her
intellectual refinement be-
cause she wants to play Portia
at Stratford, this is supposed
to muck things up, but what
little there is to work out,
works out happily.
There is a good song-and-
dance, “Cravin’ for Avon,” in
which Miss Bradley is aided
by Shakspeare’s King Lear,
Macbeth, Richard 111 and
Hamlet; the dancers Nova and
Kovel put on a good saltarelia,
or whatnot, in the opening of
Act 2 ; there is an engaging
scene for the journalist (Bill
French) and his fiancee (Bar-
bara Robinson, who sings
very nicely) when their car
breaks-down near an Italian
village ; another good setting
is on top of an Italian tower,
where the wicked Prince Luigi
(Guido Lorraine) whistles like
birds and gets girls to look
for them through his telescope
while his evil hands get busy
moving their shoulders into
position ; another is the deck
of a visiting British battleship,
with mighty guns, where every-
one is charming for com-
mander Johnny Ladd and
they’d better be, because he’s
producing the play. John
Newman makes a good
manager for the star; Letty
Craydon, a happy old wife
for boardinghouse-keeper Fred
Patterson.
The music runs through dike
an efficient waiter giving un-
obtrusive service, as does even
the usually rumbunctious Tikky
Taylor; the jokes are either
subdued or exclusively English;
indeed the best performers were
not seen at all the scene-
shifters who changed the lavish
and complicated sets in black-
outs like the twinkling of an
eye.
ijf +;+ -ij*
“Judas Maccabaeus”
It is a strange fact that
Handel’s famous oratorio, per-
formed with the Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra and the Hurl-
stone Choir under the baton
of Nicolai Malko, was written
in celebration of the English
victory at Culloden over the
Scots. And. although the work
is purely Hebraic in subject, it
is also, bearing Culloden in
mind, strongly martial in
character; and the emphasis
was certainly on this in per-
formance.
It is, largely, music of forth-
right declamation. The big
choir was rather slow in warm-
ing-up, but once it hit its
stride, with “Lead On, Judah
Disdains,” it brought-off some
stirringly heroic singing in
mass. The “Hail, Judea, Happy
Land” had in it a fair meed
of exultation ; “Ah, Wretched
Israel” was a good example of
restrained grief on the half-
voice ; and the concluding
chorus, “Hallelujah! Amen,”
had the true ring of triumph to
it.
The solo singing had its
moments. Alan Ferris’s tenor
worked well in the title part,
and he managed the difficult
passages of florid ornamenta-
tion extremely well. His best
work went into the great
number “Sound An Alarm!”
The other tenor, Ereach Riley,
also achieved a fair quota of
ringing head-notes, whilst his
phrasing in “Well May We
Hope” was admirable. The
role of Judas’s brother Simon
was sung by Ronald Jackson
with pow'er and resonance in
the middle register, though the
baritone’s carrying-power fell
away slightly in the lower
scale.
The soprano, Heather Mc-
Millan, was accurate and clear
throughout her * considerable
gamut, and she invested several
of her songs, especially “To
Heaven’s Almighty King,” with
a deal of spiritual intensity.
Joan Milford’s mezzo-soprano
was most richly satisfying in
“Ah! Wretched" Israel”; and
the two women’s voices blended
attractively in the charming
duet “O Lovely Peace.”
The orchestra, despite a few
patchy periods as to tone and
balance, and a false start at the
beginning of Part 11, gave
generally sound support to both
soloists and choir.
+s►
Tropical Fruit
They were giving away
plastic bags full of tropical
fruit at the opening of “Tropi-
cal Holiday” at Sydney Tiv.;
and it’s a pity they didn’t also
give you one of the Brazilian
Dancers in a plastic bag.
Heaven knows what you would
do with it, but it would be a
nice little thing to take home.
The dancers didn’t do very
much, except wobble whatever
they had to wobble ; and to
come all the way from Brazil
just to wobble seems rather
an extravagant gesture. Still,
there was something savage
and fruity enough about them.
Nelson Ferraz, their singer, has
a nice deep growl; there
should have been more of him.
Lloyd Nairn does wonderful
things with bottles and tennis-
racquets, and Johnny Lock-
wood,. if he overdoes the
endearing charm, especially in
his curtain-speech, is fruity
enough in his moments; and
the ballet is entirely edible.
❖ ❖ *l*
Celebrity Season
Melbourne’s celebrity-con-
cert season for 1959 got
under way with hardly a hitch
at the Town Hall the other
evening, and the programme
was nothing if not solid—
Brahms, Beethoven, Dvorak
and the first Australian per-
formance of conductor Karl
Rankl’s “Sinfonietta.” The
concert introduced Czech-
born pianist Rudolf Firkusny
to Victorian audiences.
While on the subject of
audiences it must be noted that
on the first night the gloomy
prognostications of local critics
were found fio be correct—
the exorbitant fees charged
by baby-sitters and the
demands of that jealous god
TV had taken their respective
tolls, and there were far more
empty seats than tenants.
Those who braved the night,
however, were not unrewarded;
they were treated to a rare
lesson in pianoforte art by
Firkusny and some excellent
blended work by the Victorian
Symphony Orchestra.
Firkusny's interpretation of
Beethoven’s Third Piano Con-
certo was less conventionally
brooding, tougher and more
finely controlled than most,
with a sheer, hard brilliance,
full of fire and nuance, and
technically near - faultless.
The essential mood of
Brahms’s Tragic Overture
lacked definition in the earlier
stages, but recovered in the
clim'actic bars, through which
Dr. Rankl drove his team in
a most uncompromising, con-
clusive manner.
Naturally enough the
conductor’s own Sinfonietta
sounded pretty good with the
author there to act as midwife.
It is a nicely orchestrated work,
colorful and logically mould-
ed —the sort of unambitious
music to be expected from an
Austrian of the old kapel-
meister tradition.
Dvorak’s Symphonic Varia-
tions revealed the composer in
a familiar role as the inventor
of melodic offshoots which
never digress too far from the
main theme —a musician with


INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £20,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 81 3 1 (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL. Manager.
a seemingly inexhaustible range
of expression.
+> ❖ ❖
The Tree Theatre
A theatre “event” of the
Centenary Year was the open-
ing of the Tree Theatre in the
Brisbane University grounds at
St. Lucia with a production by
Eunice Hanger of “Love’s
Labor’s Lost.”
The site is a fine natural
amphitheatre, soon to be
sandwiched between the col-
leges. The “Courier-Mail” next
morning featured a picture of
one of the actors declaiming his
lines from the fork of a gum-
tree. The theatre is a memorial
to Professor J. J. Stable.
♦♦♦ ♦>
Unknown Ibsen
[From Herbert HohnanJ
Halfway through its trial six-
month season at the Lyric,
Hammersmith (U.K.), the 59
Theatre Company has found
success through the unlikely
medium of Ibsen's “Brand.”
Few modern playgoers can
have attended the only pre-
vious English production in
1912 and fewer still can under-
stand Norwegian, so, ignorant
of the source, they must take
the adaptation on trust. One
suspects, though, that the
essence of the tragedy, as inter-
preted by adapter Michael
Meyer and director Michael
Elliott, is not the author’s. The
different approach is justified.
So, too, are the prose transla-
tion and realistic production.
Ibsen’s Brand, a dedicated
and unswerving pastor, was
greater than the society whose
pettiness he showed up —the
same society, in fact, that the
author knew and satirised.
Here he is lesser because of
his unsufferable egotism and
self-will. Seen through modern
eyes, the play is a series of
episodes in which religious
mania rather than conviction
drives a quixotic bigot further
and further away from his
fellows until, symbolically, he
escapes higher and higher up
the mountain, meeting a
terrible and lonely death by
avalanche. Always uncharit-
able, he refuses to take his ail-
ing child away from the un-
healthy northern climate, will
not shrive his dying mother,
brutally denies his wife her
grief at the child’s death so that
she loses the will to live and,
having built a church with his
mother’s hoard, walks out on
the worldly, conventional pro-
vost. These attitudes are
linked by the unyielding motif,
“all or nothing,” which guides
his life.
Notwithstanding this gloomy
progression, the production is
both classical and epic. Brand
is comparable to Othello, sub-
stituting self-will for jealousy.
This is largely due to a monu-
mental performance by Patrick
McGoohan, who, save only for
a too-narrow range of voice,
has the equipment of a great
tragedian. Especially telling
are the warped nobility, mis-
directed sense of mission and
“Cant you feel a touch of spring in the air?"
inner power which he gives
to this hard, cruel and most
unsympathetic character.
The company’s regulars, too,
have fitted themselves better to
their parts than in earlier plays.
Dilys Hamlett’s Agnes has a
radiance and bitter-sweet devo-
tion that is sheer poetry.
Patrick Wymark’s earthy
mayor and Peter Sallis’s
splendid double of chiding
family-doctor and overween-
ing provost are excellent. Light-
ing, design and a cyclorama
are used boldly and effectively
as Nordic atmosphere.
A point of interest to Aus-
tralians is that, although many
of the company have stage ex-
perience, the motive-force
comes from outside the West
End theatre from the reps,
and from radio and TV.
Artbursts
Sydney Art
It would be hard to imagine
a greater contrast than there
is between the two chief
exhibitions in Sydney at the
moment: the British abstract-
painters at the National*
Gallery and the autumn show
of the Society of Artists at
David Jones’.
The Society of Artists,
instead of exhibiting a lot of
dud little paintings as most
of the societies do in their
secondary exhibitions, has
wisely confined itself to prints
and drawings—by past and
present members —so that there
is a chance, sometimes ful-
filled, of excellence in this
restricted field.
Once again, meeting old
friends, you can admire the
sensitivity of Lambert’s pencil-
portraits, the fine firmness of
Lloyd Rees’s pencil-landscape
of Hunter’s Hill, the captivat-
ing little travel-sketches by
Eric Wilson ; and, among more
recent work, it is pleasant to
see Maximilian Feurring’s
usually exuberant colors
quietened so effectively in his
“Greek Landscape” or to study
the fluent inky drama of John
Passmore’s jumping mackerel
and the liveliness of Leonard
Hessing’s spiky plants and
driftwood.
It calls, really, for the most
astonishing rearrangement of
values to go from this quiet
little show to the 30 British
constructivists, tachists, action-
painters and other practitioners
of the abstract all roaring like
heraldic lions at the National
Gallery.
But at least they do roar—
there is much more vitality in
modern British painting than
the recent National Gallery
show of seven painters could
indicate —and if, with the
exception of paintings that
verge upon realism, abstraction
is mostly decoration, there is
certainly some very vivid
decoration here: in, for
instance, the huge panels of
red and yellow fire by Gillian
Ayres, pretentiously entitled
“Fusions” but obviously based
on the decorative stylisms of
the Japanese ; in the tachiste
squares of Ralph Rumney, in
which the colors rush about
like a swarm of bees or settle
into patterns like seashells ; or
in the peacock-blues of Derek
Middleton’s “Objects Sub-
merged.”
Coming closer towards real-
ism, therefore more stimulating
to the imagination, there is a
dramatic “Blue Sea-coast with
Distress Rockets” by Donald
Hamilton Fraser; also some
exceptionally colorful recon-
structions of dusk and trees
and gardens by Louis James ;
and the suggestions of sea-
scapes by J. Milnes-Smith.
It should be added that out
of the two exhibitions this
reviewer was chiefly grateful
to Arthur Murch for his
“Nymph and Faun” at the
Society of Artists. Past or
present, art as she is painted
is usually such a serious-
minded thing, and there is
much to be said for one
genuine touch of wicked levity
such as this—the naked faun,
squatting down by the naked
nymph, is holding her skein
of knitting-wool.


It is possible
that YOU could
SAVE
£5OO to
£lOOO P.A.
IN TAX
AND
TAX FREE
_—4. —
Outstanding opportunities
now exist. Consult . . .
D. M. CLARKE
& COMPANY
Tax Consultants
11 Randle Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO JUNE HAYES late of 74 Waitara
Parade Hurstville.—TAKE NOTICE that
CORAL MARGARET NEW has filed a
Petition No. 4038-of 1958 praying for
a divorce from her husband ALFRED
LEWIS NEW on the ground of his
adultery with you You may apply to
the Court to be allowed to defend A
copy of the Petition may be obtained
without charge from R. E. SANDERS,
Solicitor, 355 Kingsway, Caringbah.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO CYRIL PIERPONT JONES late of
51 William Street Mayfield.—TAKE
NOTICE that MARIE KATHLEEN
JONES has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 4064 of 1958 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the Bth July, 1959 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. HUNGERFORD &
BLACKWELL, Solicitors, Mullumbimby.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM LEONARD BOWEN late
of Glebe.—TAKE NOTICE that PAT-
RICIA JUNE BOWEN has filed a Peti-
tion in Divorce No. 3898 of 1958 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by the 24th day of June
1959 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from GEOFFREY SEE
GILLIS & CO., Solicitors, 28 Martin
Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO LESLIE ALLAN McGUINNESS late
of Toronto in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that JOYCE
McGUINNESS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 271 of 1959 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Divorce
Office Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by Bth July 1959 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from R. S. WOODGATE, Solicitor, 27
Watt Street, Newcastle. —J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Prints and Abstracts
There is an exhibition of
Australian historical prints
from the collection of Dr. E.
Graeme in the print-gallery
adjacent to Melbourne’s
Museum of Modern Art. They
show Sydney in the early 1810’s,
Melbourne in the 1850’s, lovely
houses, lovely trees, lovely
water and lovely shipping ; the
lovely architecture of the
Treasury building; lovely
women and lovely men watch-
ing cricket-matches and military
manoeuvres; lovely abos.,
dressed, for some unknown
reason, like Maori chieftains ;
and bushmen in top-hats riding
along Bourke Street.
The print of a noble ship
under full sail was painted by
its skipper and dedicated to
some Sydney official. AEstheti-
cally most of the prints fulfil
the conventions of the period:
they are not great art, but at
least they tell a fascinating
story of their contemporary
world.
It is interesting to compare
them with the “contemporary”
abstractions in the Seven
British Artists exhibition at
the National Gallery, which
fulfil a different fashion and
tell us nothing of the world
their authors live in.
<6* ♦>
Paintings of gumtree themes
by Helen Minchin have been
showing at the Kosminsky
Galleries in Melbourne. “Nar-
cissus” is a slender gumtree
which is contemplating its
reflection in a billabong, and
“Suburban Twins” depicts two
well-matched eucalypti which
by some accident have been
left by the estate-agents on a
vacant allotment.
♦> ♦>
Albury Prize
Prize-money totalling £282
is on -offer for the Albury Art
Society’s centenary competi-
tion. This includes £lOO for an
oil-painting (any subject) and
50gns. for a watercolor (any
subject). The exhibition is to be
staged in the Civic Theatre,
Albury, from October 14 to
20 ; entries close September 25.
❖ ❖ ***
Travelling Scholarship
Judges for the 1959 Helena
Rubinstein Travelling Art
Scholarship are: Mrs. H. V.
Evatt, Elaine Haxton, Hal
Missingham, Eric Westbrook,
Norman Schureck and Wallace
Thornton. The award has been
increased by £3OO, bringing the
total in all to £l3OO.
Films
“II Ferroviere”
Power and poignancy are
about equally blended in this
Italian-made film (with English
sub-titles), which follows the
line of strong realism.
The story is about the driver
of a crack Italian express who
takes drinks to steady his
nerves after having run-down a
suicide and overruns a red
signal as a consequence.
Pietro Germi, who also
directed it, gives a distinguished
portrayal of the railwayman.
Every subsidiary character, too,
is strongly draw’n.
At Sydney Savoy.
♦t*
“Carry on Sergeant”
The bull-voiced, bulldozing
barrack-square sergeant who is
cursed with a platoon of no-
hoper rookies to bash into
shape within a limited time is
an old cinematic friend, and
he is trotted out again in this
British film.
But it does present a recog-
nisable cross-section of recruits
and a sergeant who is a real
snorter for discipline, though,
of course, with a heart of gold.
As the ogre, William Hartnell
acts as to the manner born,
and his awkward-squad are
amusing.
At Sydney State.
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Truth About
Women”
Comedy-drama, in which, by
a series of flashbacks, an aged
English diplomat tells the
story of his love-affairs in
many lands.
Laurence Harvey, made-up
to look about 50 and acting
as though he is about 90, is
more impressive when he steps
back into his 30’s for his
amorous ventures. The women,
except for Julie Harris as a
pert, serene little artist he
meets in a broken-down lift,
are not impressive—-Eva Gabor
being too tinselly and obvious
as his French mistress, and
Diane Cilento over-straining
for effect.
Hoyts’ Circuit.
❖ *l* ❖
“Bread, Love & Jealousy”
In this Italian-made comedy
—the third of the series—of
village amours, and especially
those of the police chief,
everybody talks at around
250 w.p.m. complete with arm-
action obbligato—which makes
the sub-title reading rather an
optical feat.
Vittorio de Sica is the
amorous top-cop and Gina
Lollobrigida is the village
hussy who delights the men
and infuriates the jealous
women, and she bares enough
to make both seem quite prob-
able. But the doings are under
forced draught all the way,
and the laughs are rare.
At Sydney Esquire.
♦I 4
“La Esccndida”
A peasant-girl (Maria Felix)
coldly beautiful in
“La Escondida” fails to await
the return from the Army
of her conscripted lover
(Pedro Armendariz) and be-
comes mistress to the Governor
of the province. On learning
this, the lover —already a Left-
-winger through a feeling for
his fellow-workers—becomes a
rebel leader and is nominated
a General in the new regime,
recapturing his girl in the
process.
The story is fitted into the
Mexican revolution of 1910,
and deals with agave (a liquor
which is a leading inspiration in
revolutions), with love (which
is also the subject of the theme-
song), and the hatred of the
peasantry for the “gentry,”
composed of politicians, Army
chiefs and landowners. The
acting by most of the gentry is
indifferent Hollywood, but the
peasants (including the Army
bandsmen) live their parts.
The sub-titles are only a
poor echo of the rich Spanish
dialogue, but the color-
photography is as worthy of
the settings as the realistic
portrayal of the Mexican
laborers. Which is very high
praise.
At Sydney Lyric and Vogue.
L. O.


Telegraphic and Cable address: “Brownhills.”
Telephone: BW 1165 (3 lines).
A. H. BROWNHILL & CO.
(A. H. Brownhill, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
27 O’Connell Street - -- -- -- -- - Sydney
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771 —BW 8088
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Howard Smith, Ltd.
/'Ariginally a prosperous shipping-
concern, Howard Smith, Ltd., trans-
ferred its fleet to the wholly - owned
Australian Steamships Pty. early in the
century and for many years has operated
as a holding-co. and investment-co.
Principal subsidiaries, apart from Aus-
tralian Steamships, are the partly-owned
N.S.W. colliers, Caledonian Collieries,
Ltd. (which recently took-ovei Cessnock
Collieries, Ltd.), and Invincible Colliery,
Ltd., and the North Queensland sugar-
miller, Australian Sugar Co. Pty. A
major source of income, the sizeable
investment - portfolio valued in the
books at-£1,144,250 and probably worth
at least twice that figure—includes large
shareholdings in 8.H.P., A. Goninan
and Co. and Southern Portland Cement.
Ord. capital has been static at
£2,000,000 for 35 years, which in itself
is something of a commentary on the
shipping and coal industries, bonus-scrip
accounting for nearly 80 p.c. of the total
figure. There is a further £250,000 of
6 p.c. pref. capital.
Tax - concessions relating to the
mechanisation of coalmines have the
effect of reducing published colliery-
earnings, but, even allowing for this,
the combination of heavy capital-expen-
diture and steadily-declining profits has
been a disturbing feature of group
accounts over the past four years. As
much of the capital-expenditure has been
directed, basically, towards preserving,
rather than enhancing, the earning-
potential of the co.'s coal and shipping
interests, the question naturally arises as
to whether other avenues of investment
might not have provided a greater return.
More important at this stage, however,
is the co.’s attitude towards future
capital-outlay, and on this score chair-
man W. Howard-Srnith spoke directly
at last month’s annual meeting, in
anticipation, perhaps, of criticism similar
to that recently levelled at the board
of Huddart Parker, a fellow shipowner
and colliery-proprietor. According to
the chairman, it is not the present inten-
tion of the shipping-offshoot “to embark
on any further building of vessels, either
as an addition to the fleet or as replace-
ment of vessels which are likely to be-
come obsolescent.”
Nevertheless, while losses on shipping
operations sharply reduced overall group
earnings last term, the board considers
it “imperative” for the group to main-
tain its interest in coastal shipping in
order to retain valuable agency and
stevedoring work carried-out for outside
customers.
Although his policy may be something
of a compromise it is probably an almost
unavoidable one, for, apart from the
effect on associated trading activities, the
surplus tonnage reported by both local
and overseas shipowners is unlikely to
encourage any immediate and large-scale
liquidation of shipping-assets.
On the other hand, expenditure on big
mine - mechanisation programmes has
produced more positive results, and, as
far as Caledonian Collieries is concerned,
future prospects appear to justify a con-
tinued outlay on handling - equipment,
mine-mechanisation and beneficiation-
plant. Australian Sugar Co. has also
profited from the modernisation of its
sugar-mill, but the immediate outlook
for the smaller Invincible Colliery is less
promising and the future of this co.
“must be regarded as uncertain” in view
of the reduced coal requirements of the
N.S.W. Government railways and the
purchase by the N.S.W. Electricity Com-
mission of the Newcom Colliery.
Excluding certain capital - expenditure
charged against earnings under tax-
concessions- granted to colliery cos., a
net £3,640,298 has been added to the
cost-Zcvv-depreciation value of fixed assets
over the past five years, more than
doubling book-values, while provisions
for depreciation during that period have
totalled £1,669,283. Current profits, after
dividends, covered about a third of the
net outlay, reductions in cash and other
current assets, together with increases in
current liabilities more-or-less exhausting
the group’s theoretical working-capital:—•
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1956. 1957. 1958.
Pref £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Ord 2,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000
Reserves .. .. 3,352,718 3,514,151 3,578,669
Outside interests.. 616,057 634.001 656,242
Overdraft . . . . 700,911 881,051 888,31 S
Creditors, etc. .. 1,504,939 1,158,701 1,544,869
Workers’ compensation 67,027 67,328 64,503
Tax provision* , . 653,706 681.068 604,318
Final divs. . . 103,750 103,750 103,750
Inter-co. .. . . —■ 38,959
£9,249,108 £9,329,009 £9,690,669
Freeholds, etc. .. 625,904 594,143 670,491
Steamers, collieries,
plant, etc. . . 5,089,120 5,614,237 6,036,906
Shares .. ~ 1,150,461 1,154,084 1.144,250
Stocks .. .. 821,897 756,887 912.060
Debtors .. .. 1,230,872 959,315 723,117
Cash, bonds .. 317,226 250,343 190,136
Inter-co. .. .. 13,628 13,709
£9,249,108 £9,329.009 £9,690,669
* Includes £493,300 against future income-tax
(31/12/’5B).
In the current term, Caledonian Col-
lieries expects to complete a coal-washing
plant designed to handle the whole out-
put of the Aberdare collieries and further
mechanisation of underground haulage-
systems is planned. However, group
capital - expenditure appears to have
passed its peak and an easing of the
tight liquid position can be expected, with
a consequent improvement in share-
holders’ chances of participating in any
profit-gains.
As claimed, dast term’s group profit,
including that proportion attributable to
outside shareholders, was lighter by
£79,619 at £292,629. Caledonian Col-
lieries contributed £212,749 (up £19,274),
Invincible £10,590 (down £1474) and the
parent co.'s general investments and
trading activities a net £117,939 (up
£8562), to leave the undisclosed loss of
Australian Steamship, less the similarly
secret profit of Australian Sugar Co.
somewhere in the vicinity of £50,000.
Elimination of the outside share-
holders’ interest and non-trading adjust-
ments reduced the profit to £236,897, or
£95,067 less than in the preceding term,
the further deduction of the parent’s
investment income (which would attract
very little tax) leaving net profit from
trading down £99,679 at £99,561. The
tax-provision wasn’t disclosed, the pro-
vision for depreciation (down £6625 at
£369,028) being £33,864 smaller than it
would have been had not the basis on
which depreciation was charged in one
subsidiary been changed:
Howard Smith and Subsidiaries.*
, —Div idends
To He- Re-
Dec., Profit. Prof. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1953.. 473,114 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 155,000 318,114 2,439,366
To special tax reserve, £112,516.. 2,326,850
Unexplained addition, £61,991 . . 2,388,841
1954.. 669,064 6 p.c. 8 p.c. 175,000 494,064 2,882,905
Unexplained addition, £64,357 .. 2,947.262
To special tax reserve, £53,100 . . 2,894,162
1955.. 452,425 6 p.c. 8 p.c. 175,000 277,425 3,171,587
To special tax reserve, £122,500.. 3,049,087
Loss sale assets, £958 .. .. 3,048,129
From provisions, £34,166 . . . . 3,082.295
Net unexplained addition, £ 28,209.. 3,110,504^
1956.. 416,354 6 p.c. 8 p.c. 1 75,000 241,354 3,352,718
Profit sale assets, £10,552 .. .. 3,363,270
To special tax reserve, £14,500 .. 3,348,770
Unexplained additions, £8417 .. 3,357,187
1957.. 331.964 6 p.c. 8 p.c. 175,000 156,964 3,514,151
Tax overprovided, £32.474 . . 3,546,625
Profit sale assets, £4685 .. .. 3*551,310
To special tax reserve, £39,400 . . 3,511,910
Unexplained additions (net), £4862.. 3,516,772
1958.. 236,897 6 p.c. 8 p.c. 175,000 01,897 3,578,669
* After deducting outside interests.
The £236,897 covered the pref. div. and
11.2 p.c. on ord. capital, as against 15.8,
20.1, 21.7 and 32.7 p.c., back to 1954,
the ord. div. remaining steady at 8 p.c.
However, the basic div.-rate was raised
from 7 p.c. to 8 p.c. by the inclusion
of a 1 p.c. bonus-div., paid in each of
the four preceding years.
Local and export coal-sales should
enable Caledonian Collieries to show a
satisfactory profit in the current year,
and, although sugar earnings may be
somewhat leaner, general investment in-
come is safe enough and overall prospects
more than interesting. Much depends,
of course, on the elimination of shipping-
losses, and, while there seems small


RALPH W. KING & YUILL
Members of the Sydney Stork Exchange
313 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. BE 3771-2-3
406 COEEINS STREET, MELBOURNE. 67-5089, 67-5080
Cables and Telegrams: “Ralpbking” Sydney and Melbourne
Branches at Grafton . and Armidale
chance of obtaining a reasonable return
on shipping-assets at the moment, better
tesults have been reported by Australian
Steamships in the past few months.
Support for the scrip has strengthened
wiih the improvement in colliery earn-
ings and the board’s announcement of
its attitude towards expenditure on new
vessels, the £1 ords. returning £3 19s. p.c.
from an 8 p.c. div., at 40s. 6d. the highest
price paid for the shares since 1951.
Even so. the visible tangible backing is
still 15s. 3d. above the sharemarket
valuation, inclusion of the major invest-
ments at market prices increasing the
margin to over 30s.
Waters Holdings, Ltd.
'T'he formation of Waters Holdings,
Ltd., in 1951 followed a dazzling
burst of profit-winning by the old Waters
Trading Co., shareholders in the trading
co., which had paid divs. averaging 13.4
p.c. over the 14 years to 1951, participat-
ing in a de facto three-for-one bonus-
issue. Although the size of this handout
has dampened-down the earning-rate on
share-capital, the scrip is not without
appeal as a reliable income - producer,
with prospects of limited gains in that
direction, at the current market-valuation
of around 255. 6d., the £1 ords. returning
£7 Is. 2d. p.c. at this price from a 9 p.c.
div.
Having pushed reserves past the big
swag of intangibles raised on formation,
the co. lifted the div.-rate from 8 p.c.
to 9 p.c. in 1957-58 and stuck to the
higher rate last term, despite a sharp
contraction in earnings.
Among other things. Waters Holdings
is interested in the processing and export
of peas, rice, barley, etc., and last term’s
showing arose, largely, from the
slump in world prices for local produce,
especially field peas. Weak markets and
strong competition forced a severe write-
down of produce-stocks carried-forward
from the previous year and caused the
recently-purchased offshoot, Mex Cereal
Co., of Adelaide, to finish the year in
the red.
Other sections of the business, engaged
in the import of spices, beans and other
Eastern produce, were more successful,
while the floor-coverings and furnishings
section enjoyed a record turnover and
profit.
All told, group earnings fell from the
1958 peak of £117,218 to £81,876, the
lower profit being calculated after pro-
viding £43,521 (down £16,689) for tax
and £7856 (down £1791) for depreciation.
On the all-ord. share-capital, increased
to £718,085 by a one-for-six par issue
in 1956-57, the profit represented a
return of 11.4 p.c., compared with 16.4,
11.3, 10.3 and 10.9 p.c. back to 1954,
the 9 p.c. div. being covered with
£17,249 to spare:
Waters Holdings, Ltd., and Subsidiary.
March Profit. Dividends ■, Deficit.*
31, £ £ £
To share capital, £461,610 .. 236,575
Preliminary exes., £3296 .. 239,871
Loss sale asset*, £3411 . . 243,282
1952 . . 72,232 6 p.c. = 36,930 207,980
To staff fund, £2500 .. .. I ora
1953 .. 79,356 6 p.c. = 36,930 J
To staff fund, £2500 .. .. t lnq
1954 .. 107,440 74 p.c. = 46,162 j \ ’
1955 . . 67,506 74 „ „ 46,162 87,932
Profit sale assets, £17,915 .. 70,017
To staff fund, £2500 .. .. f kk 900
1956 .. 63,446 74 p.c. = 46,161 l 00 -°
To staff fund, £2500 .. . . \ 99 C7O
1957 .. 90,201 8 p.c. = 56,112 f
Reduction intangibles, £10,139. . 13,539
Waters Holdings, Ltd., and Subsidiaries.
Reserves.*
1958 .. 117,218 9 p.c. - 64,383 39,296
1959 .. 81,876 9 p.c. = 64,627 56,545
* After allowing for intangibles, £199,861 at 31/3/59.
Cautious buying, rather than lower
values, brought about a big reduction
in stocks (down £151,307) over the year
and, with the lower tax-provision, a re-
lated drop in current liabilities (down
£117,570). Although capital-expenditure
cut working - capital by £44,280, to
£158,977, the ratio of current liabilities,
provisions, etc., to current assets was
little changed at 1:1.3:’ —
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1957. 1958. 1959..
Paid capital .. £697,431 £711,964 £718,085
Reserves .. 186.322 239,157 256,406
Creditors* .. 607,217 569,516 ) „ A -
Staft fund .. 25,000 25,768 j
Suspense a/c .. 1,090 5,590
Final div. .. 35,224 35,905 32,314
£1,552,284 £1,587.900 £1,488,110
Freeholds .. 307,580 396,294 427,262
Plant, eic. .. 101.396 131,226 156,106
Shares .. .. 45,339 26,073 24.926
Stock .. .. 570,916 573,746 422,439
Debtors .. .. 317,021 260,622 249,961
Cash .... 32 78 196
Suspense a/c .. 7,359
Intangibles .. 210,000 199,861 199,861
£1,552,284 £1,587.900 £1,488,110
* Includes tax-provision, overdraft, etc.
Controlled from Sydney, the group
owns freeholds in all mainland States,
the progressive modernisation of the
Melbourne property accounting for por-
tion of the net £55.848 put into fixed
assets last term. Freeholds have been
revalued from time to time, the last
write-up, in 1952, and affecting
the book-value of the Melbourne property
only.
Additional capital - investment was
made during the year in Northern
Developments (Holdings), Ltd., which is
interested in the rice-growing project in
the West Kimberley region of W.A.
At balance-date (March 31 last) con-
solidated accounts showed a net tangible
backing of 21s. 7d. for each 20s. ord.
Lowes, Ltd.
T owes’ lowest in 10 years of open-
J - v market dealings caused less dismay
among the investing fraternity than might
have been expected ; and rightly so, for
there is good reason to predict a speedy
upswing in the company’s fortunes,
although previous ceilings pro tem may
be beyond reach.
At first glance, the £14,026 fall in net
earnings over the term, and the fnore-
than-halving of profits since 1955, seem
to offer little ground for optimism. But
against this, where a department-store
radically alters the base of its merchan-
dising policy, costs of a non-recurring
nature —for rearrangement, sales-promo-
tion, development, etc. —will almost
inevitably depress the net return, even
though volume of sales and attendance
may be rising significantly.
Such seemingly is the case today with
Lowes, whose board has now crossed
the Rubicon into general retailing.
Formerly known as a middle-price-
range outfitter of men and boys exclu-
sively, Lowes last term went prospecting
into alien TV-home-appliance territory
and not without success, according to the
annual report; whilst women’s clothing
will grace its shelves this year for the
first time ever.
There has, of course, been some loss of
caste on ’Change. Shares which were
priced at 11s. 9d. in 1956 after the bonus-
issue had fallen to ss. 9d. earlier this
year. The 55.-par-value scrip now com-
mands 6s. 6d., offering a yield of 4.6 p.c.
on last year’s 6 p.c. div.-rate, but takers
obviously are banking on something a
little better.
Lowes can look back on 60 years or
so as a going concern, but the share-
market itself has been interested only
since 1948, when 150,000 new ss. shares
came on the market, and were snapped-
up, despite the 12s. 6d. premuim each
carried. Buyers, however, soon recouped
their outlay through two fat bonus-issues,
three-for-five in 1949 and one-for-one in
1955. Until this last issue, the dividend-
rate averaged 17 p.c. ; then for three
years in succession, 10 p.c. was forth-
coming, followed by last year’s 6 p.c.
Lowes trades through a chain of nine
stores, including a very well-positioned
headquarters with frontages on both
George and Pitt Streets. There are at
present six suburban branches with
another coming up, and Newcastle and
Wollongong have one each.
After a tax-provision of £22.000 (com-
pared with £29,000 in 1957-58) and
depreciation of £14,454 (£14,662) had
come out,, disclosed net profit was £37,254
(£51,280) and this represented a return
of only 8.2 p.c. on paid capital, compared
with i 0.4 p.c. for the previous year:
To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. f Dividends ■, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
3954 .. 62,602 17Ap.c.= 43,037 19,565 301,605
1955 .. 77,561 20 „ „ 49,129 28,432 330,037
Assets revalued. £324,014 .. .. 654,051
Reserves capitalised, £227,677 . . 426,374
1956 .. 55,175 10 p.c.= 49,438 5,737 432,111
Profit sale assets, £2249 .. .. 434,360
1957 .. 55.736 10 p.c.= 49.352 6,384 440,744
Freeholds revalued, £320,395 .. .. 761,139
Loss, sale investments, £72 .. .. 761,067
1958 .. 51,280 10. p.c. = 49,150 2,130 763,197
Tax overprovided, £5OOO .. .. 768,197
Surplus sale shares, £59 . . . . 768,256
1959 .. 37,254 6 p.c. = 29,379 7,875 776,131
At January 31 last there were £776,131


ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. FF 3931.
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
COVer ADEQUATE?
Con4u& Wm
AUSTRALIAN
LIFE ASSURANC||fOXLTD.
DIRECTORS: Inc. in Queensland. 1
r-:v:
E. W. Robinson (C’man)
Col. R. S. Goward, C.B.E.
P. H. Phillips
T. Keith Smith
C. W. Rofye
S. J. Gandon
General Manager:
W. J. Cooksey, B.Sc.,
F.
General Secretary:
George Leslie, F.C.1.5.,
A.A.S.A.
HUNTER AND BLIGH
STREETS
SYDNEY
ON
A full 6% per annum interest with security
makes this on-call cash deposit a wise
investment!
RATES FDR TERM DEPOSITS
10% PER ANNUM .. .. 5 YEARS
9%
8%
7i°/<
7%
We certify that there ivas £l9B of consolidated tangible
assets to cover each £lOO of consolidated liabilities excluding
deposits, at 31st December, 1958. HENSON, GATES AND CO.,
PTTRT TP ArrniTNTANT<!
SECURED BY THE AUSTRALIA-WIDE ASSETS OF CARAPARK
For full particulars, see your broker, 'phone LM 0391 or send
in this coupon to the Secretary.
C&Ut/OObA & GENERAL FINANCE LTD.
681 Parramatta Road, Leichhardt, N.S.W.
Please send me a brochure and copies of balance
sheet.
NAME
ADDRESS J
of reserves to support a paid
capital of £455,354, all in ss.
ords. Revaluation has been
rather heavy, totalling £644,409
since 1956, as interlined in the
profit table, and despite some
capitalisation, £416,732 of this
remains on the books. Obvi-
ously, however, an early bonus-
issue is out of the question: —•
1958. 1959.
Paid capital .. £455,354 £455,354
Reserves .. 763,197 776,131
Mortgage .. 60,000 64,583
Overdraft .. 126,502 199,999
Creditors .. 126,960 144,794
Provision for tax,
etc. . . .. 78,767 56,674
Staff funds .. 36,180 34,732
Final dividend.. 24,560 14,688
£1,671,520 £1,736,955
Freeholds .. 1,077,744 1,083,558
Plant, etc. .. 115,641 115,365
Stock .. .. 360,641 369,619
Debtors .. 68,744 121,907
Cash, shares, etc. 48,750 46,506
£1,671,520 £1,736,955
The £53,163 leap in book-
debts, which almost doubled,
is largely due to Lowes’
cautious first venture into h.-p.,
wherein it is pursuing a “rather
exacting credit policy.” Now,
if Lowes plans on extending
credit on any large scale, it
will need to have credit
extended to itself, since the
working-capital position seems
untenable for other than a
cash-sale store. Therefore,
since there is already a com-
paratively heavy liability to the
bank, some form of note-issue
looks a distinct possibility for
the near future, especially in
view of the building pro-
gramme at Fairfield.
Net tangible asset backing is
solid, but literal. There was
13s. 6d. to cover each ss. of
scrip at balance-date.
Yates Seeds, Ltd.
1C arnings of the Sydney-
■*-' registered Yates Seeds,
Ltd., have followed a rather
erratic course since the co.
opened its share-register to the
public in 1951, but the average
showing has been better than
satisfactory, a steady 10 p.c.
div., laced with a 2\ p.c.
anniversary-bonus' in 1958,
enabling the reinvestment in
the business of over 40 p.c. of
the profits won in the last six
years.
Well known to the home-
gardener as a grower and
merchant of flower- and
vegetable-seeds, the 76 - year -
old Yates organisation also
enjoys an extensive trade in
agricultural seeds (pasture-
grass, clover, lucerne, maize,
etc.), bulbs, nursery-supplies
and garden sundries. Branches
in Melbourne and Brisbane
assist in the wholesale and
retail distribution of the
group’s products throughout
Australia, exports, particularly
to the Pacific Islands and Far
East, helping to swell total
income.
There have been no changes
in the one-class share-capital
since the public issue in 1951,
the scrip issued at that time,
at a 12j p.c. premium, raising
paid capital to £258,015.
Another co. to feel the back-
wash of lower rural incomes,
Yates suffered a steep reduc-
tion in earnings last term, the
demand for clover- and grass-
seeds falling away with the
decline in grazing-incomes,
while weaker prices for agri-
cultural and horticultural pro-
ducts discouraged the sowing
of supplementary fodder-crops.
Won from a lower, but
undisclosed, turnover, net
profit was £28,304 (or 43 p.c.)
below the record figure claimed
in the preceding year, pre-tax
earnings shrinking by £58,160.
Before arriving at the £37,670
profit, “substantial allowance”
was made for the effect on
stock-values of unfavorable
market - movements, £18,258
(down £29,856), was provided
for tax and £18,055 (down £548)
allowed for depreciation: —•
Parent and Suusidiaries.
To Re- Re-
Feb., Prft. Dividends, serves, serves.
£ p.c. £ £ £
54..49,956 10 = 25,801 24,155 69,699
’55..55,464 10 = 25,802 29,662 99,361
Tux overprovided, £5OOO . . 104,361
’56..28,715 10 = 25,802 2,913 107,274
Profit sale assets, £825 . . 108,099
’57..44,394 10 =25,802 18,592 126,691
Loss sale assets, £4388 .. 122,303
’58..65,974 124=32,253 33,721 156,024
Tax overprovided, £4821 . . 160,845
Profit sale assets, £3572 .. 164,417
Less research donation, £2500 161,917
’59..37,670 10 = 25,802 11,868 173,785
There was no difficulty in
covering the 10 p.c. div.,
despite the extent of the profit-
fall, earnings coming-in at the
rate of 14.6 p.c. on share-
capital, compared with 25.6,
17.2, 11.1 and 21.5 p.c. in the
four years back to 1955. A
holding-co., Yates Seeds bal-
ances on February 28, the two
operating-subsidiaries ruling-
off their accounts in October
and November.
The stiffer trading conditions
encountered last term show-up
in the balance-sheet in a
£35,988 drop in book-debts


INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant
supervision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Est. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY - 27-3444
108 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - MU 4081
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate. •
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
A (rents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
eto. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
eto
If any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
and a £13,902 increase in
stocks, but without disturbing,
unduly, a sound and comfort-
able financial structure. Share-
capital has the support of
reserves totalling £173,785, and
there is a substantial £49,586
against “provision for returns
of dated packet-seed—other
provisions and accruals”:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1957. 1958. 1959.
£ £ £
Paid capital.. 258,015 258,015 258,015
Reserves . . 126,691 156,024 173,785
Mortgage . . 48,400 47,300 46,200
Overdraft .. 45,239 31,353 36,567
Creditors .. 60,295 66,018 70,777
Sundry pro-
visions, etc. 45,248 53,560 49,586
Tax provision 54,026 84,770 66,249
Final div. .. 12,901 19,352 12,901
650,815 716,392 714,080
. Freeholds . . 207,588 197,100 224,158
Plant . . 89,228 86,390 78,811
Investments . . 15 596 891
Stocks . . 223,236 279,132 293,034
Book-debts . . 130,748 153,174 117,186
650,815 716,392 714,080
A new sales warehouse in
Brisbane was completed early
in the term “without strain and
without recourse to any special
borrowing arrangements,” the
year’s addition to freehold
book-values (1950 valuation or
cost) amounting to £27,058.
Although the quieter sales-
trend has continued into the
current term, there are now
signs of some improvement in
demand and, with operating-
subsidiaries well into their
financial years, the board fore-
casts the maintenance of earn-
ings at a satisfactory level.
Acknowledging the promis-
ing long-term prospects, the
sharemarket prices the £1 ords.
at around 345. to yield
£5 17s. Bd. p.c. from a 10 p.c.
div. Net tangible cover is
335. 6d.
Miller Anderson, Ltd.
A delaide department - store
retailer, Miller Anderson,
Ltd., assumed public company
status 32 years ago, when the
Marcus Clark organisation
took over control from the
Miller Anderson family, which
had carried on business for
three-quarters of a century.
The Sydney parent still holds
a controlling interest, but suffi-
cient of the ords. are held by
the public at large to qualify
the company for Stock Ex-
change listing ; and the prefs.
also are public property.
For the first twenty years
ordinary shareholders had a
lean time, but with the arrival
of the ’fifties came comparative
prosperity.
News more current reveals
some uneasiness in Hindley
Street, where Miller Anderson
has its headquarters. Net profit
after deducting all expenses fell
by 19 p.c. to £31,883, but the
real dedline seems to have
been rather more severe. There
was nothing conservative about
last year’s taxation provisiori,
which looks about adequate at
£19,000 (down £8000) ; while
allowances for depreciation
and other contingencies also
fell by £2OOO to £9600.
Profit from trading before
deduction of these last two
items fell from £78,004 to
£60,483, despite an expanding
sales volume ; so that one must
assume that competition in the
southern State has sharpened
very considerably over the past
twelve months. There are, of
course, other factors: rising
costs associated with the
strange picture of price-control
maintained by a Liberal
Governnment, and certain un-
elucidated “stock readjust-
ments” which, according to
chairman R. C. Clark, “will
later greatly benefit the pro-
fitability” of Miller Anderson.
These benefits had better not
be too belated, for the 10 p.c.
dividend-rate, held now for five
years, looks to be directly
threatened:
t —* —Dividends Rp-
Jan. Profit. Pref.Ord. Total. serves.
31, £ p.c. p.e. £ £
From tax provision, £12,000 35',532
1948.. 24.297 6 6 11,100 48,729
1949.. 31,175 7 7 12 950 66,954
Unexpl’ed addition. £5249 72,203
1950.. 28.615 , 7 7 12,950 87,418
1951.. 35,985 8 8 20,000 103,403
1952.. 35.137 8 8 20,000 118,540
1953.. 33,325 8 8 20,000 131,865
1954.. 37.516 8 8 20,000 149,381
1955.. 41.726 8 10 23,400 167,707
Assets revalued, £263,373.. 431,080
1956.. 39.092 8 10 24,250 445,922
1957.. 35.373 8 10 28,500 452,795
From tax provision, £ 700. . 459,795
1958.. 39.404 8 10 28,500 470,699
1959.-31,883 8 10 28,500 474,082
Profit for the ords., £25,483
after deducting a pref.-dividend
of £6400, was 11.5 p.c. of
ordinary paid capital, well-
down on previous conserva-
tively-based rates —15.0 p.c.
(1958), 13.1, 18.5, 20.8, 18.3,
15.8, 16.9 p.c.. back to 1952.
There was one issue during
this period, a three-for-ten par
issue of ords in the 1955-56
term.
The balance-sheet for 1959
virtually duplicates that for
1958. Fixed assets increased by
£14,668 mainly as a result of
the purchase of a property at
Naracoorte, which hasn’t yet
been taken in at full purchase-
price. This branch will supple-
ment another established a year
or so back at Clare, but so far
the company’s drive into the
provinces seems to be on a
rather modest scale:
Paid capital— 1958. 1959.
Pref £BO,OOO £BO,OOO
Ord 221,000 221,000
Reserves . . 470,099 474,082
Mortgage .. 168,000 160,000
Overdraft . . .60,963 61,374
Creditors, etc. . . 65,771 75,835
Tax provision .. 53,237 48,690
Final div. .. 14,250 14,250
£1,133,920 £1,135,231
Freeholds . . 630,209 ' 641,509
Furniture, fittings,
etc 62,694 66.112
Stock .. .. 298,111 235,758
Relators . . . . 142,414 141,390
Cash .. .. 442 462
£1,133,920 £1,135,231
Freeholds were revalued in
1956, and asset-revaluation
reserve credited with a surplus
of £263,373, “not with the
intention of making a bonus-
issue of shares, but to give
shareholders a clearer idea of
the value of the company’s
principal asset.” As a result
each 20s. of ord. capital was
very well-armored with 635. of
net tangible cover on book-
values at Jan. 31 last.
The possibility of a take-
over looks remote. Never-
theless, the rather restricted
sharemarket must have some-
thing of the sort in the back
of its mind in offering 345. for
the ords. for a far-from-
guaranteed 5.9 p.c. yield.
1 here are £BO,OOO of 20s. 6 p.c.
prefs., which participate to
8 p.c., and on random
exchanges these sell at around
235. each.
Mary Kathleen Uranium
A lthough the first div. from
Mary Kathleen Uranium,
Ltd., is to'be an expected Is. 3d.
a 2s. 6d. share it will turn up
on May 22 next, some months
earlier than anticipated. To-
gether with the rate of pro-
duction and profit-winning at
the big uranium mine, this
move adds further weight to
suggestions that the annual
payout could, well, be nearer
to ss. a share than the fore-
cast 2s. 6d. a share. Profit for
the quarter was £746,259 of
which £360,000 was sent to the
provision for loan-repayments.
On an average monthly
basis, oxide production and net
profit for the quarter to March
31 last were over 20 p.c. higher
than those in the initial seven
months to December 31.
Approximately half of the
profit is set aside to cover
repayments on the more than
£9 million of loan-money
owing by the co. but even
after making this deduction,
profits appear to be coming in
at an annual rate of nearly
ss. 6d. a share.
Against this, of course, must
be set the fact that the greater
the rate of output the sooner
the co. will complete its con-
tract with the U.K. Govern-
ment and thus find itself at the
rather uncertain mercy of
world markets for uranium.
Uranium Kate’s step-
daughter, Mary Kathleen In-
vestments, Ltd., will collect
about 35 p.c. of the total div.-
cheque and should be in a
position to distribute at least
9d. a ss. share, with an annual
div.-rate of better than 30 p.c.
should M.K.U. hold its div.-
rate at 100 p.c. On last
quarter’s figures, M.K.l.’s in-
vestment in M.K.U. is earning
at the rate of approximately
3s. 6d. a year on each M.K.I.
ss. share, after deducting pro-
vis on for loan-repayment.
One M.K.I. share is worth
approximately two-thirds of a
M.K.U. share —on the basis of
its holding in that co. only—
and the sharemarket tendency
to discount M.K.I. scrip has
almost disappeared in recent
weeks, M.K.U.’s shares fetch-
ing around 31s. 3d,, cum div.,
and M.K.l.’s shares about 20s.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairman; F. W. DUESBURY, Deputy
Chairman; ALFRED S. WHITE, A. G. PARKER.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. B. J. LANE, Manager.
’Phone: BU 7401 16/20 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
How To Live With
The Russians
Will the Western Alliance be
successful in the struggle
against international Commun-
ism? How can we get along
with the Russians so that co-
existence does not turn out to
be “no-existence”? In May
Reader’s Digest, British For-
eign Secretary Selwyn Lloyd
presents a challenging pro-
posal.
You’ll enjoy the variety of
articles to browse through in
May Reader’s Digest, including
New Hope For Overloaded Hearts,
The Search For Perfection in
Marriage and The Wonderful
World of Wrestling.
May Reader’s Digest
pages of informative enter-
tainment only 2/-. Great
value! Get your copy today.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
TX7ith overseas funds build-
** ing up quite nicely at
April 15 they totalled £79.2
million, against £47.1 million
a year before —and with wool
prices rising strongly, the
Government has been en-
couraged to ease its import-
restrictions slightly.
There, has been no change in
policy, merely a distribution of
additional funds, for imports
within the licensing system.
These additional allocations
will bring the provision for
private imports in 1959 to
about £2lO million. This is
less than the expenditure on
private imports in 1958—even
after allowance is made for
payments against excess
licences, which were additional
to the schedule.
But, according to the
Minister of Customs, Mr.
Boord, it represents a consider-
able increase on what seemed
possible a few months ago
when the Government looked
at reduced export prices, de-
pelted exchange reserves and
the need for a reduced level
of overseas borrowing.
Unofficially it is estimated
that the increased provision
will amount to about £lB
million.
In 1958, total private imports
amounted to £240 million, but,
£l7 million of this was for
excess licences. For compara-
tive purposes the £2lO million
set aside for private imports
this year should be considered
alongside £223 million last year.
When making the comparison
it must be borne in mind that
the £240 million last year was
supported by overseas borrow-
ing of £44,700,000.
Mostly for Industry
A/Tost of the increases are for
raw materials and equip-
ment for industry, but some
consumer-goods are included.
Commodities for which in-
creased basic allocations are
provided include invalids’
foods, dried and canned fruits,
canned fish, desiccated coco-
nut, antiseptics, and anaes-
thetics, elastic, hand-knitting
yarn, linoleum, wallpaper,
table-chinaware, lenses, clocks,
wood-screws and corrugated
iron.
Goods for which increased
provision will be considered
on an “individual” basis in-
clude leather, certain textiles,
sewing-cottons, various types
of machinery, machine-yarns,
certain types of paper and
many others. A few items are
still under review.
Though described by a
retailers’ spokesman as “only a
drop in the bucket,” the in-
creased allocation has been
welcomed by manufacturers.
Trade with Germany i
A new trade - agreement
between N.Z. and the
Federal Republic of Germany
gives N.Z. the right to tender
for annual quotas for a variety
of primary products.
These are : 6500 tons of beef,
250 tons of canned meat, 250
tons of mutton and lamb, 750
tons of buttermilk powder,
3,500,000 Deutchmarks for
apples and pears, one-million
Deutchmarks for clover- and
grass-seeds, a million Deutch-
marks for meat extracts,
600,000 Deutchmarks for
bloodmeal and dried blood,
and 250,000 Deutchmarks each
each for frozen and canned
vegetables. The current rate of
exchange is 11.8 Deutchmarks
to the £.
No fixed quotas have been
established for full- and
skimmed-milk powder, butter,
cheese or honey, but N.Z. has
been granted the right to com-
pete for whatever volume of
those commodities the German
Government decides to import.
The increased trade could be
worth as much as £2,600,000
to N.Z.
N.Z. was not required under
the agreement to make any
special arrangements regarding
German exports to N.Z.
The new agreement gives
N.Z. some access to the Ger-
man market, but, as was made
clear during the negotiations, it
does not in N.Z.’s view, fully
meet Germany’s Gatt obli-
gations.
Trade Practices
"jVTEYV Zealand’s new Trade
Practices Commission held
its first sittings in April.
According to the Secretary
of Industries and Commerce,
Dr. W. B. Sutch, its policy
will be to keep the country’s
economy as free and liquid as
possible— to keep price-control
at the minimum, and competi-
tion at the maximum.
The commission is con-
cerned with trade-agreements
between industrial groups, and
it requires that such agreements
must be registered.
Already 650 agreements have
been notified and about 250
of these have been investigated
and registered.
The Commissioner of Trade
Practices, H. L. Wise, has the
job of reporting to the com-
mission on agreements and
practices he considers against
the public interest.
The commission has the job
of investigating these reports at
hearings where the parties con-
cerned will be expected to con-
vince the commission that their
practices are not against the
public interest.
The commission has an un-
charted field before it of
deciding what practices are
against the public interest.
Among other things, it will
consider arrangements between
wholesalers to sell goods to
retailers only on condition that
the retailers sell to the public
at certain prices.
The commission has full
powers of subpoena and
enforcement. Fines of up to
£lOO for an individual, and
£5OO for a company, are
prescribed in the Act.
The commission will be con-
cerned with prices of services
as well as goods, but only with
services not covered by other
enactments (taxi fares, for
instance, are covered by other
legislation).
Higher Wages Sought
r T' , HE long-awaited applica-
-* tion for a general wage-
increase has been made to the
Arbitration Court. An increase
of 13.7 per cent, on rates up
to £2O a week is sought.
The application asks the
court to raise minimum wage-
rates in awards and industrial
agreements from their present
level (including the 18 per cent,
general order) by the equiva-
lent of 13.7 per cent. The
amount has been calculated as
follows:
8.6 per cent. —To compen-
sate for the 8.6 per cent, rise
in the consumers’ all-groups
price-index between the time
of the last general wage-order,
December, 1956, to the quarter
ending March, 1959 (1049
points to 1137 points).
2.2 per cent. —To compen-
sate for the discounting of the
price-index number by the
court in making the last order
because of the high potato
prices then ruling, a discount
equivalent to 21 points, or 2.2
per cent.
2.9 per cent. —To account
for increased productivity per
head of available working
force, at the average com-
pound rate of 2.4 per cent, for
two years (4.8 per cent.), less
the minimum increase in wage-
rates received (shown in the
index between December, 1956,
and December, 1958, as 1.9 per
cent.).
It is asked that the present
ceiling of £l3 on the applica-
tion of the present order be
lifted to £2O a week, so that
the full overtime-rate may be
received by workers earning up
to that amount.
It is also asked that the effect
of the new order shall be
written into the basic rates of
pay, and that overtime-rates
then be based on the total
earnings for work done at
ordinary rates, instead of being
based on the rates payable
before the general wage-
increase is added.
The consumers’ price-index
rose by 0.2 per cent., or two
points, for the first quarter of
1959, according to figures sup-
plied by the Government
Statistician.
This compares with an
increase of seven points in the
fourth quarter of 1958 and 50
points for the third quarter.
The latest index figure is 1139
with the base of 1000 points
for 1955.


The Two Bachelors
By HAL PORTER
Every morning the door
punctually retreats open.
For a moment no one
appears, and nothing
sounds except the last two of
eight brown grunts from the
clock inside.
Then Mr. Bruno Redmond-
Jones trots out onto the
veranda, hoots, “B’gad, it’s a
top-hole day, La!” and
hurries, for no reason, no
reason at all, along the path
edging the enormous oval
lawn. He semaphores his
malacca at the cabbage roses,
at the country town with all
its Norfolk Island pines and
Edwardian chimneys, at the
sky, at the entire universe.
Marv’lous business, all of it:
footpaths and gardens and life
and what-not. The jolly old
sun, too —one could almost
wear one’s solah topee, eh?
Behind Bruno wavers the
clothes-prop Mr. Neville La
Gerche, weak from having
tenderly locked the door and
smothered the key and its
dungeon wards under the door-
mat.
Bruno duels at the palsied
wooden globes on the gate-
posts, “They’ll be tumblin’
off. Cannon-balls, eh? Must
have a puhs’n in, La. Fix ’em.
Do something to the summah-
house as well.”
La catches the gate, which
quakes in pain from Bruno’s
dramatic wrench, and soothes
it shut. Next, both of them,
the one skinny and about to
disintegrate, the other squat
and brisk and on the point of
exploding like a boil, move
away up the smiling street.
The lawn, on which neither
has trodden for 20 years,
although to wear a path dia-
metrically from door to gate
would be natural, relaxes flat,
a green pet, to wait their
return. The facade of the
house, french-windowed and
with latticed veranda-ends,
sighs like a back-cloth and is
thereafter moveless. Behind
this veneer of flaking boards
and panels of ruby glass etched
with raspberry vines, the daily
woman, unseen rodent of a
female, meanly flaps a
La pours himself another fountain of burgundy.... His mouth attempts to arrange itself
for speech. It is too late.
chamois, sniffs at soiled glasses
and scrapes up burnt matches.
Meantime, having parted,
after breakfast, at ten minutes
to nine, outside the Orient
Hotel, Bruno and La are out
in the world, out in the world.
"Druno, with nothing to do
except spend hours buy-
ing a tin of shortbread or
digging out a particular
“Illustrated London News”
from the Mechanics’ Institute
Library, grimaces at everyone,
is seen by everyone in all
sorts of places: springing
bravely as a lunatic over
drains, rattanning his malacca
along picket fences, scurrying
towards some seductive place
which must be quickly reached.
He doffs his lady-killing
panama repeatedly; some-
times, his knees trembling out-
wards in trousers yellow as old
newspaper, he descends to slap
dogs on the ribs, or planks
himself upon an iron seat in
the Main Street gardens, and
snorts up the scent of flowers
while, feet apart, hands devout
on cane-top, he jiggles his little
blue eyes about.
He vis witnessed, antique
celerity itself, marching
around this or that corner;
in the sawdusty recesses of a
grocer’s a mock-angry voice is
heard, “Pr’post’rous! I’d a
nightmare aftah it. Ghastleh
business monstahs and
things! I’d no more than a
crumb, a meah crumb. I said
to La, ‘La, this cheese has been
tampah’d with. Positiveleh! ’
Had a meah crumb. Popped
into bed and . . . pr’post’rous!”
He constantly feels that he
himself, Bruno, is . . . is . , .
well reahlly, aftah all eighteh-
four and still, dammit, a Jack-
be-nimble. Why, away back
theah, when Edward the
Seventh was . . . well . . .
well . . . with Lily Langtreh,
half the fellohs he’d been with
at Clifton College—the old
countreh —were as dead as
doornails. Years ago: . . .
growlahs . . . Charlottenburg
violets . . . Opera Creams . . .
and the sound frou-frou, frou-
frou that women’s petticoats
made . . .
He seems to have been


cajoled, make-up unsmudged,
from the first act of an Anglo-
Indian comedy: an odor of
the rattan chaise longue, in the
arm of which is plaited a hole
for his stengah, shakes from
his tussore shirt. On each side,
above his rosy beak, twitches
an eyebrow like a neurotic
white mouse.
His unreality is so intense,
one has read of his species so
often that, materialised, he is
more familiar than a human:
impossible to conceive him
abashed, naked, sick or silent.
That he was ever a baby or
has ever made an untypical
gesture, is not to be thought of.
It is equally incredible that
La can have been boy or lover,
anything ever except a 60-year-
old bachelor in dandruffy
clerical grey to the top of
which is clipped, by a speckless
collar, a mild head with beer-
colored eyes and a long mouth
always pegged aslant by a pipe.
But La is so real, so brimmed
with a pale ordinariness, so
quickly pictured in any hum-
drum situation miserable,
vomiting, groping for a stud
—that he seems unreal, as
though he might not care
enough and be firm enough
not to do the most common-
place yet unnecessary things:
die while mixing bismuth and
soda in his smallest mortar,
crumble-up in the vestry
gloom behind his chemist’s
counter or shamble off, golf-
bag-bowed, over the hill at the
10th hole, never to return.
All day, while he types
“THE GARGLE. To be used
as directed,” while he gums on
the label and melts the sealing-
wax, his mind plays pianissimo
from one to the other of two
notes: Stymied Doc. Harris at
the ninth. Order more Tinct.
Opii. Camph. Used her middy
to putt with! Get those ether
bottles from the hospital. If
Bruno hadn’t insisted on me
having that other liqueur I
wouldn’t have hit the ladies’
tee-box .. . .
When the worn shop-bell
tinkles him out of the labora-
tory, the light, striking in
through carboys of dyed water,
tinges his face with medieval
colors, cathedral - blue and
anthem-red. From this monas-
tic face floats an incense, as
from a gothic censer, of
tobacco-smoke.
Tn the evening, after La’s
Kiimmel and B r u n o’s
Drambuie, they leave the
dining-table of the Orient
Hotel.
Bruno, paces ahead, on the
drain edge, still—after a day
of it —jabs the ferrule of his
stick into the faces of the ber-
serk hordes of Americans,
Huns, bolsheviks, New Aus-
tralians and larrikins which
might come maniacking out of
side-streets after poor old La.
La, almost limping, is un-
aware that one of his scare-
crow shoulders has tilted itself
up to take the bullet that some
miscreant, not understanding
Bruno’s leetle ways, will fire
from behind a pittosporum
hedge or even a concrete
gnome. He watches Bruno
swashbuckling his hat with
one hand, his stick with the
other, while he pats the dog
with . . . Remarkable Bruno!
“Ho, ho! The beauteous Miss
Foggarteh, eh? Takin’ the
doggeh for a constitutional?
That’s the gel. How’s your
daddeh? And the doggeh?
Good doggeh!”
When La has pressed the
door behind them and the light
is on, the clock gives eight
greetings.. . . night.
At half-past eight La’s grey
felt is limply asleep on its
china knob and Bruno’s
panama with the other
panamas and solar topees
tossed upon the cedar buffet,
Bruno’s stick has bounced to
silence behind the buxom selzo-
genes, already Bruno has
yelped, “Fifteen!” and scored
his first two on the cribbage-
board.
La feels that the room and
everything in it and all the
other half-clean rooms make
a movement nearer to watch
his nightly defeat. If he were
to hurtle from the leather chair
and rip open the door to the
passage he could indubitably
surprise the hallstand, pedes-
tals, occasional tables, even his
golf-sticks jostling towards the
keyhole. And he hears the
lawn drawing itself stealthily,
slug-like, over the veranda-
planks to the front-door. Yes.
And always, as he plays, he
notices from the rim of his
eye something inexplicable—a
book, The Sorrows of Satan —
a calendar 10 years old —an
eggcup anything—something
that was not there when the
game began and which has no
reason for existing, being
neither his nor Bruno’s, yet
which does exist after the game
is over.
When Bruno has won and
La is able to look freely he
wishes to point and say, “Is
that yours, Bruno? Is it?”
but dares not.
It would kill him to hear
Bruno prickling up, “That!
That! Nevah saw it in m’life
before. Don't be an ass, La ;
must be yours. That!
Pr’post’rous!”
So, having observed that
Bruno’s whisky-decanter, the
packets of water-biscuits, the
carton of raisins, the Balzac
volumes and the brass bowl of
silver-jacketed chocolates have
all moved slightly from their
former positions, he forces
himself to stare at the chimney-
piece where, among tobacco-
tins and golf score-cards and
sinister husks of tropical nuts,
are two little glass domes on
bases of ebony.
In one is a wan, thinnish
frog, stuffed and varnished,
seated on a miniature hogs-
head smoking a churchwarden.
At the frog’s feet rests a card,
like a blind man’s, and printed
in spiky letters on it Le
Fumeur.
Blatant and yet secretive
beneath the other dome stands
Le Buveur, shiny and plump,
straddling finny feet and grip-
ping aloft a minute tumbler
into which, from a tilted fairy-
bottle, it incessantly pours an
invisible intoxicant.
Tjow did Le Fumeur and
Le Buveur get into the
place? La is not positive. Nor
is he certain how he and Bruno
. . . One thing is certain. The
two frogs have watched him.
He tries often to catch, and
sometimes does, their glazed
eyes returning to goggle much
too deliberately at tumbler and
pipe.
He finds his tongue prepared
to begin, “See here, Bruno.
Le Buveur is you. You know
. . . sort of jolly and . . .
and . . . you know. And the
seedy-looking johnnie with the
pipe, that’s me.”
Yet that is hardly what he
wants to say. That is not what
he feels. Something like that,
but . . . but . . . deeper ; more
. . . more . . . that there are
two frogs under glass, under
dusty glass, cooped-up, dried
and preserved, uncared-for, and
the gay gesticulating one is
like . . .
Bup!
Bruno has released the wire-
clutched cork from La’s bottle
of sparkling burgundy and
now the fountain of bubbles
plays up the hollow stem of
La’s glass.
Schutz-z-z-z!
Bruno fires soda - water
strongly into his whisky and,
squelching back into his sea-
grass chair, begins to speak
before La, his tongue tickling
with bubbles and words, can
make a sound.
“Don’t know how you can
stomach the stuff. Sparklin’
burgundeh’s only fit for the
mistresses of greaseh money
changers. I’ve seen 'em at it, all
furs and bust and those eye-veil
affaihs. Bah! Reminds me:
I’ve never, actualleh nevah,
seen a more unattractive
woman than that Mrs.
Thingummeh at the Orient.
Pr’post’rous female. Bulges
heah. Flops theah. Wears that
kimono thing. Raddles her
face. Nothing to commend
her. And he’s such a nice
felloh. Can’t understand it.
Why, she talked all through
dinnah. Bulged heah. Flopped
theah. All through dinnah . . .”
For months La has wanted
to suggest having meals at
another hotel. He has a theory,
a pretty shrewd one. that the
chef of the Orient Hotel cooks
all roasts simultaneously in one
oven so that beef becomes
muttony and fowly, fowl
WAITING FOR A TRAM
Here the mind's unfailing eye
encompasses timidity :
girl whose style and clothes
belie
her bloom and femininity;
and waiting for a tram I find
her movements like a subtle
fear
that penetrates and chills her
mind,
knowing that l look at her.
Trams hesitate at intersec-
tions —
she stiffens, shrinks —so sensi-
tive
of her body’s new inflections,
the things that body has to give,
that in her sudden fear of them
she hides behind her eyes and
lips,
wears blankness as a mask to
clem
my mind’s eye’s dream like an
eclipse.
O see her not as woman, child,
but some strange season of the
flesh,
like an intricate map compiled
to show where storm and calm
enmesh.
I chart her through encircling
reefs
to find some island in her mind,
and name the trees of her
beliefs,
but no island can I find.
She takes her bag and passes by,
lost in her subtle diagram,
drowning me in her storm-calm
eye
before she runs to catch her
tram.
Tas.
NEIL K. CHICK.


Missing Friend
EDWARD WILLIAM COI.US, EDWARD
WILLIAMS, EDWARD EDWARD®.—
WILL any person having any informa-
tion concerning EDWARD WILLIAM
COLLIS, also known as EDWARD
WILLIAMS and EDWARD EDWARDS,
formerly of South Road, Brighton, Vic-
toria, Australia, believed, to have been a
Drover; or any information concerning
any child or children of the abovenamed
EDWARD WILLIAM COLLIS, please
communicate with TtlE TRUSTEES,
EXECUTORS & AGENCY COMPANY
LTD., 401 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO SMARAGDA vLACHERDIS late of
8 Tierney Avenue Matraville. —TAKE
NOTICE that JOHN LACHERDIS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 333 of
1959 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry in the Supreme Court Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by the Bth day
of July 1959 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from PHILLIP
NORMAN ROACH, Solicitor, of 160
Castlereagh Street, Svdney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
becomes beefy and muttony,
mutton becomes . . . He un-
screws the pipe from the
corner of his mouth which
attempts to arrange itself for
speech. It is too slow.
“Yes, an unsavoreh creature.
No charm. Now, theah was a
chahmah I knew who’d a farm
in the Dargo Hills. She was
bulkeh, certainleh. But charm!
Je tie sais quoi! She was no
highah, dammit, than the
buffet theah. And, b’gad,
nearleh as wide! A positive
deah, was old Kitteh. Irish as
Killarney. She’d two children,
Maurice and Biddeh: Maurice
used to shoot satin-birds, nevah
a miss. Biddeh was five-and-
tw'enteh and a fine figure of a
gel.
“Young gallants would
arrive. ‘But it’s foine to be
seein’ yez,’ old Kitteh would
cry. ‘Come in. Biddy! Biddy!
Come quick; stop fiddlin’
with yez hairpins. There’s
young men here, bless ’em,
afther a sing-song and a boite
o’ supper.’ And the old deah
would leave ’em. But aftah a
while, b’gad, there’d be a mur-
mur outside the parlor door
and there’d be old Kitteh
soliloquisin’, ‘Yis, yis, stuffin’
thimsilves with good food, the
mallet - headed bog - throtters.
Won’t lave me a tack to me
feet. Maulin’ me Biddy as well,
maulin’ her with their dirty
min’s hands. Shameless thing
she is. She’ll come to a bad
ind, yellin’ and pourin’ me
whisky out like water itself,
while they kick their clod-
hoppers agin me pianny.
Arrah, hell to me soul! Here’s
a hot corner and Kilkenny
coals that’s half sulphur . . .’ ”
Alight, Bruno chucks more
whisky into himself to nourish
the blazings, the theatrical
gesticulations. La pours
another fountain of burgundy,
and stills himself to absorb, as
though he has not heard them
before, all the stories that
Bruno, word-perfect, will tell
and act as though for the first
time to a new audience.
With impeccable self-posses-
sion Bruno lowers tissue-paper
lids upon his eyes, gobbles his
Adam’s apple and becomes
lushly Irish, with two voices,
Father Cremin talking to him-
self :
“So Spud Murphy’s in jail
again? Drunk, eh? Serves
him roight, the boozin’ devil.
Oi’ve warned him. But it’s a
cold, cold noight to be in a
little brick cell . , . cold . . .
Ach! the drunken dog. Oi’ve
no toime for him. And him
old enough to know better.
Oi’ve no pity for the wretch.
Cold. Cold. And him an old
man; he’s had a hard loife.
He wants to forget and sing a
bit. Thim poliss are bullies . . .
The poliss are good chappies!
That sinner Spud reelin’ and
swearin’ like Nick himself, he
deserves all he gets. But it’s
cold. Blankets thin as paper.
He’s an old man. And he’ll
have a bhoy of a hid-ache . . .
oh ... oh ... oh .. . Serves
him roight! Oi’ll not bother
with him; Oi’ll be having
nothing to do with him ; he can
stay in clink . . .”
Bruno’s eyelids suddenly fly
up, his eyebrows too. He
becomes arch, he waggles a
finger at La and reveals an
earth-shaking secret, “But,
b’gad, La, the next second the
good fathah had his bicycle
out . . . and . . . was pedallin’
to the dungeons to bail out
the blackest sheep of his flock,
eh!”
■VTothing can stop Bruno now.
Were there an earthquake
La would still have to sit and
listen to that voice beating on
and on like a mad heart.
He feels himself sinking
backwards while the room, the
house, the world, also relax,
tilt back and throb. There is
a restless sea of words and
some chant out, like wave-
crests, and splash La’s numb
face. The room pants with
exotic aromas, reels with cries
and smoky shapes and the
flavorless witticisms of Bruno’s
long-dead acquaintances, is
alive with the scufflings of
clogs and sandals on foreign
streets and floors, the flashings
of portholes, windows of alleys
and boulevards, Bruno’s
malacca, the spectacles of con-
fidence men, the jet bodices of
adventuresses, the mouths of
drained bottles rolling away
into corners and nights and the
past.
Then, though neither has
heard the clamors of nine- nor
10-o’clock nor of any of the
quarter-hours, they both hear
the clock purposefully reciting
11. Bruno shuts up. La, who
has been squinting through
dangerous streets and between
the prickly bushes of tropical
farms at a cheese-cover of
white china on which are
painted large blue pansies, tries
to look straight at Bruno. At
the same time he strives to
remember something, some-
thing about the cheese-cover on
which the flowers, quite
feminine, seem to breathe and
lift up the edges of their mar-
celled petals. He knows what
he is to remember, but Bruno
is stumping about.
“Time for bed, for bed,
b’gad! Time two old bachelors
. . . must have eight ah’s
beauteh sleep . . . two old
bachelors . . .”
To La the room is foggy
and yellowish, filled with
yellow motes as though he had
taken santonin. Everything is
untidy ; none of the pictures
on the wall is quite straight;
the wall itself is skew-whiff;
the pile of Balzacs is about to
topple down.
Yet, even so late, he aches
to tell Bruno of the alterations
at the 12th and 13th holes,
about his idea of having a path
cut across the lawn straight
from door to gate, about —•
about many things. He would
like to say, “Bruno, do you
cheat at crib?”
He peers like a possum for
something to eat, something
sour,- a slice of lemon or a
pickled cucumber. But the
only thing he can vividly see,
and the only thing his fingers,
the nails black-brown from
metol - hydroquinone, can
touch, is the cheese-cover
which reminds him of things
softer and warmer: cups of
tea, asters, darned socks. He
is about to lift the cover.
“Hop to’t, old man! Must
be up earleh! Moon like a
blood-orange tonight. Naranje!
Hot tomorrow ; think I’ll don
the topee, eh? Come on! Two
old bachelors.. . . to bed . . .
to bed ... !”
It is not until he is almost
asleep that La properly knows
the scent flowing steadily out
of the other room from the
pansies on the cheese-cover;
pansies and living hair and
white knees, pink stays with
long pink tapes. A voice
wheedles, “Go on, Mr.
Chemist, buy the pretty cheese-
cover for your dear little wife.
Go on, nice Mr. Chemist.”
There is a giggle, right at his
ear. He moves his arm and
his body emits some word.
What was he saying? Talk-
ing in his sleep . . . what
was it?
Pansies. Cheese - cover —-
something under it. Glass
domes and something under
each— Le Buveur and Le
Fumeur. Two little cards.
White cards.
White cards with black
edges. Was it only yesterday?
Only yesterday a hand prick-
ing at a cream-horn with a tiny
silly fork. Yesterday . . .
yesterday . . .
Tomorrow . . . tomorrow I'll
say to Bruno . . . I’ll say . . .
I’ll say . . .
La sleeps. The two bachelors
sleep.
SECRECY
Night among the houses moves,
with no more noise than any star,
but in its deeps a hundred lives
explore again a landscape far
removed from day’s aridity
to reach love’s marvellous secrecy.
The night-wind wounds the camphor-tree
that grows in the dark suburban street —
O the wind tears fierce as an enemy
and the straining limbs exclaim defeat:
the tree surrenders in the night
and it learns in its depths the lost wind’s plight.
But morning touching the houses finds
merely some few extinguished leaves
beneath the camphor-tree.
It stands
in a street that had scaled the night with loves,
though now in their kitchens the housewives show
no more than their men what they may know.
QUEENSLAND.
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT.


Divorce Notices
IN THK SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO ALLAN JAMES TAYLOR late of
Moruva.—TAKE NOTICE that ENID
MONICA TAYLOR has tiled a Petition
for Divorce No. 4811 of 19.38' on the
ground of desertion for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by the 2nd
day of July 1959 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from MR.
J. H. PEOPLES, Solicitor, 77-79 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
An. Australian, Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEOKUE AND HUNTEK STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS, A. MURRAY .TONES, HUGH DIXSON,
D. A. T. DICKINS.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS , General Manager.
Theresa told me
By NANCY CATO
It was stifling among the
vines. Heat rose from the
furrows of crumbling red
sand; and seemed to cling
to the limp vine-leaves and be
shaken off in our faces as we
picked.
My fingers were raw from
the stiff currant-stems, and
smarted from the juice of
crushed grapes where 1 had
cut myself with the knife. Shirt
and trousers were sticky with
a mud compound of grape-
juice and dust.
I was hand-picking again
today, but Theresa still worked
swiftly and serenely with her
cutters. I envied that clean
snip-snap on the other side of
my row. Every now and then
Theresa’s broad hands, brown
and strong, came through to
snip a bunch from under my
nose.
She had to pick through
because I was so much slower;
but I was hot and tired, and I
began to feel sure she was
taking all the best bunches.
So I tried to grab all the big
bunches in sight, leaving the
small ones to be gone back
for later.
Just as I reached for a
beauty on Theresa’s side, a
fat wine-purple cluster of tiny
translucent globules, her snips
appeared close to my hand.
The bunch fell, was whisked
away, landed in her tin with
a thud. I drew back hastily.
“When I pick with my
Momma,” said Theresa cheer-
fully, “if I take her big bunches
she just snips my hand. It
would be easy to lose a finger,
so.”
The cutters flashed out, and
a thick stem was neatly sliced
before my eyes. 1 stared
soberly at the sap-oozing
stump, and retreated quietly
to my side of the central wire.
“But my Poppa,” said
Theresa, “leaves all the big
bunches for me. He is so kind,
so good. He works too hard.
He is not well, but with the
little ones there is much
expense, you understand?”
The bunches thudded rapidly
into Theresa’s tins. She was
only 18, but she was one of
the fastest pickers on the block.
She never stopped while she
talked. Although it was some
years since she had come from
Yugoslavia, she still kept an
accent.
“Do you believe in Hell?”
she asked suddenly.
Theresa’s head appeared,
framed in vine-leaves like a
bacchante’s, though the cutters
still worked busily as if they
had a life of their own. Her
usually cheerful face was
serious; for once her big teeth
were not showing in a grin.
I looked at the white, glaring
sky and lifted my hat for a
moment from my wet hair. I
longed for a mouthful from the
waterbag at the end of the row.
“Hell must be rather like
this,” I said.
“You believe it, then? When
we die we go to Hell, and burn
in fire for always?”
Snip. Snap. Snip. Snap. The
cutters sounded agitated.
“No, I don’t.”
“Ah! You are not a believer,
then? My Momma, she is a
good Catholic. She tell me I
am a bad girl and I will go to
hell for sure .. .Do you think
1 will go to hell?”
1 tried to tell Theresa some-
thing of my own ideas, which
did not include fire and brim-
stone, but the possibility of
creating a personal hell on
earth, in our own minds.
Theresa didn’t stop picking,
but I think she listened. Any-
way, I went on talking with the
egotism of youth airing its
opinions.
I
\\7hen the whistle blew at the
distillery at five o'clock
Theresa was cheerful again.
She crawled through to my side
and helped me fill two tins
to make up my 100. She had
picked 204. As we were on
piece-work, this meant that she
had earned twice as much for
the day.
I tucked one of my tickets
in the last tin.
“By craikey, you better
hurry up tomorrow,” she said
as we plodded down the long
row to the sheds. I grinned.
“Do you not care for the
money then?”
“Not much. As long as I
eat.”
She stopped and stared.
“What, are you rich or some-
zing?”
“No, just lucky. No respon-
sibilities, no ambition, no
family. I do seasonal work
until it gets too cold, and then
hibernate till the spring.”
“What is high-bernate?”
“Sleep through the winter,
like a lizard.”
She looked at me unbeliev-
ingly. Theresa was not rich
either. I knew. Her father had
worked for six years in Aus-
tralia before he'd saved enough
money to bring Theresa and
her mother out. He had a
small block of his own now,
but worked on a bigger block,
belonging to someone else,
during the week. He spent the
week-ends and the evenings
improving his own place.
Momma worked on their
block, got “the little one” off
to school, and took the baby
with her among the vines.
Theresa was out picking all
day, but she was never in bed
before eleven.
“By the time I have milked,
and washed up, and put the
little one to bed, and washed
out a frock and some szings,
and done some baking, it is
late,” she would say; and add
with a grin, “1 don’no what the
devil Momma does all day.”
I used to straggle back to
my hut, almost too tired to
open a tin and get myself
something to eat, and then
fall into bed like a log at half-
past eight. Theresa was a
marvel. What a wife she would
make for some lucky man!
But not for me, I thought
hastily, averting my eyes from
her buxom figure.
“I guess I’m just a rolling-
stone, Theresa,”. I said.
She giggled, and looked at
me sideways from her golden
eyes. “You do not look much
like a stone. Brown yes; but
you are too long and zin.”
Zin! What a lovely word!
O zinful man ...
TVpEXT day she was very kind
**■ Mo me. She let me work on
the shady side of the row all
the time (though I chivalrous-
ly tried to offer it to her), and
rounded me up and shep-
herded me back to work after
each smoke-oh.
Close to the end of the row
I found a small brown lizard
in the grass. Holding it in the
palm of my hand, staring into
its dark, brilliant eye that
stared back into mine, I be-
came lost in a dream of a
saurian world before man
walked the earth.
Theresa impatient, put her
head through the vine and
urged me to kill the lizard.
(Continued on page 44)
NOW
Now is the edge
of the world,
the lip, ledge,
rim of a leaf
where the ant,
blind, grabs for
a foothold
of nothing there,
washes face
as if to taste
the flavor of space,
turns over
and runs upside-
down to us
and you. But this,
this is the edge
of the world
from which
you cannot fall,
walking on water
in which you cannot
drown, unless you die,
only the dead
cannot speak,
only when you wake
and try to share
your dream is waving
feelers in the air
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.


How to Write-up a Prime Minister
Politicians, Bouquets and Brickbats
Prime Minister Menzies nor
Opposition-leader Evatt has had
much occasion lately to feel very grateful
towards the press. , On the contrary,
during the salaries debate both gentlemen
showed decided signs of irritation and
indignation at some of the things that had
been expressed or implied about M.P.s in
general and party leaders in particular.
The two leaders were in an awkward
position. They found their democratic
belief in freedom of speech in violent
conflict with their very human feelings
of injured self-esteem. The P.M. allowed
himself to drop an illiberal hint that
those that live by the sword may die
by the sword, and the Doc. reminded the
critics that Parliament had power to deal
with the press, though he “hoped it does
not have to be used.”
Criticism of politicians is a long-estab-
lished right in Australia and one from
which neither Prime Ministers nor Oppo-
sition-leaders are exempt. Despite occa-
sional signs of irritation, as recorded
above, our leaders have learned to take
most of the criticism without becoming
unduly distressed. One never hears of
Menzies throwing himself on the floor
and biting the carpet after reading a
“Sydney Morning Herald” leading-
article, nor of Dr. Evatt tearing-up the
flies of the Melbourne “Age” and strew-
ing the fragments around the Parliamen-
tary Library because of a comment from
its Canberra correspondent.
At the same time, they must often
wish they had a press just a trifle more
aware of their charms and talents, or
at least a little more effusive in expressing
its awareness. Such a press, for example,
as seems to have fallen to the happy lot
of the politicians of Ghana.
Respect and Reverence
Z'''hana, formerly the Gold Coast colony
in West Africa, became an indepen-
dent Dominion two years ago under the
Prime Ministership of Kwame Nkrumah.
In the past few weeks almost every day’s
mail has brought to The Bulletin one
or more newspapers from Accra, the
capital of Ghana, every one of them an
object-lesson in how to write of a Prime
"Minister with respect and reverence.
Contrast, for example, the Sydney
afternoon press handling of the departure
of Prime Minister Menzies on the Orcades
with the Accra “Evening News” treat-
ment of the departure of Prime Minister
Nkrumah for Nigeria and the Cameroons.
Sydney “Sun” headlined its story,
“Menzies Hooted. Wharfies in Angry
Scene.”
The “Evening News” front-page
announced “Nigeria Hails Nkrumah
Today,” showed a picture of Nkrumah
talking to a deputation of Ghanaian
chiefs and ran a news-item reporting a
bon-voyage message to Nkrumah from
Nigerian students in Ghana and another
announcing “Nkrumah and Bevan to
meet” (in Berlin next July).
Page two of the same issue of the
“News” contained two editorials; one
of these extolled “our able and unctuous
but dauntless leader, Dr. Kwame
Nkrumah,” and the other dealt with
Nigeria, with special reference to the
visit of Dr. Nkrumah.
On the same page was a picture of
Nkrumah and an article in the Hausa
language on his Nigerian visit. Elsewhere
in the paper articles in three other West
African languages mentioned Nkrumah,
and a column of “Zongo Gossip,” in
Gold Coast pidgin, told how “Big Fren
Broddah, Dokita Ankurumah” had left
on a “bisit for Nargeelia.”
The date of this issue of the “News”
was January 26, which happens to be the
anniversary of the inauguration of the
Indian Republic. In honor of the occa-
sion, the .“News” published an article
on the Rani of Jhansi, a woman warrior
of the 1857 Mutiny. This was illustrated
with a photograph of the Rani’s monu-
ment with Nkrumah alongside it
“beseiged by cheering crowds.”
Finally, on the back page of the paper,
was an account of the arrival in Ghana
of the Indian High Commissioner, who
said at the airport that “Dr. Nkrumah
had made a great impression on India
by his personality and his speeches.”
Subsequent issues of the “News” gave
liberal space to Nkrumah’s progress
through Nigeria and to his speeches there.
“Liberator of Africa,” “The Great
Liberator” and “Africa’s Greatest Son”
were some of the phrases used to describe
Ghana’s Prime Minister.
Every issue of the “Evening News”
carries the line “Founded by Kwame
Nkrumah” and a portrait in silhouette
of Dr. Nkrumah. The morning paper,
“The Ghana Times,” is not embellished
in this way, but both papers emanate
from the one office, which is situated
on Nkrumah Avenue, Accra. The
“Times” doesn't give the Ghanaian
Prime Minister as much space as the
“News,” but its reporters, photographers
and sub-editors can't be accused of
neglecting him. Its leader-writers give
loyal support and praise to “Africa’s
Hero.”
Preventive Detention
Although Mr. Menzies might be in
favor in Sydney and Melbourne
dailies taking a leaf from the book of
the Accra press in the matter of writing-
up- Prime Ministers, it is not likely that
Dr. Evatt would recommend the same
authorities for a course on the proper
treatment of Opposition-leaders. Apart
from Dr. Nkrumah’s travels, the big
news in Accra in January and February
was the court - martial of Captain
Awhaitey on a charge of “neglect to
the prejudice of good order and military
discipline.” The neglect allegedly con-
sisted of failing to report that he had
been approached by two members of the
Parliamentary Opposition who had tried
to persuade him to suborn Ghana Army
n.c.o.’s to assassinate Dr. Nkrumah on
the eve of his departure for India last
December. A month earlier, on the basis
of the reported discovery of a similar
plot, 38 members or supporters of the
Opposition party had been arrested under
the Preventive Detention Act. The two
Opposition M.P.s mentioned at the court-
martial proceedings were also arrested
and placed in detention.
Both Accra newspapers thoroughly
approved of the Act and the action taken
under it. An assertion at the court-
martial that a brother of Dr. Busia, the
professor of sociology who is Leader
of the Opposition, had known of the
alleged plot was accepted as proof that
Dr. Busia himself was involved. In an
editorial attacking the Opposition, the
“News” said “We have too many who
coddle assassination and evil planning”
and complained that “Ghana is suffering
from a weak and diabolic Opposition.”
, t
Best-paid Opposition
At least it can be said of Australian
press attacks on Dr. Evatt that no
one tries to hang brother Clive's indis-
cretions on him. He has been accused
of many things, but no one has ever
suggested that he coddles assassination,
or even that he and his followers are
diabolic. It is possible, though, that the
following extract from the “Ghana
Times” rings a faint bell: “We have
the best-paid and best-educated Parlia-
mentary Opposition, but too many of
them are flabby and insipid and this stirs
neither heaven nor hell for Ghana’s
freedom.”
According to the latest-received issues
of the Accra press, just to hand,
Nkrumah has arrived back from Nigeria,
Captain Awhaitey has been cashiered
from the Army, a three-man commis-
sion is inquiring into the plot, and the
40 United Party men are still in preven-
tive detention, with the apparent approval
of everyone except the Opposition and
the wives of the detainees. And whoever
it is who is mailing The Bulletin the
papers, on behalf of the “Adviser to the
Prime Minister on African Affairs,” is
doing his job so enthusiastically that
three or four copies of most issues turn-
up, each separately wrapped and stamped.
So far the record for the “Evening News”
is held by the January 26 issue, with
eight copies. But the “Ghana Times”
for January 30 beats that easily.
Thirteen !


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Canned Cricket
Tn our village by the muddy
stream we are learning to
enjoy our sport’s spectacles
with far less of the discomforts
of our Harborside Hillite con-
freres, judging by some of the
reports and comments in The
Bulletin since last season's
Tests.
For example, a memory or
two of a day at one of them.
It wasn’t quite playing the
wag—Monday is a slack day,
anyway. Our sightboards are
as broad and high as any Hill
obstruction ; but one has all
the answers for comfort and
enjoyment when one arrives
early in the Southern Stand.
Early means five minutes
before the awful and majestic
march of the white-coated
Fates of Cricket to sacred
wicket, to perform the nerve-
tingling ceremony of placing
the bails.
Here, with mate, one settles
for a form with back-rest, some
20ft. above the sightboard.
Almost plumb with the wicket,
too. Claiming the form in
front as foot-rest, bar and
lunch-table, we present a
brave front to the section of
the 40,000 spectators who
would share our eyrie.
Mate and I decide that
ceremonial is in order, as the
high-priests complete their
ritual. So, to cheer Mc-
Donald and Mackay, and to
appease our taste-buds, wa
offer a libation to the gods.
The gods are pleased—Mac-
kay scores a single. The
applause is caused by some-
one, surprised, dropping his
can, whereupon it rolls down
the concrete steps with a brave
clatter. Nearby spectators
snigger ; the can was half-full.
McDonald’s century, with
the sweet applause of tin-
openers biting into cans, calls
for heroic celebration, to
acknowledge our village hero’s
new stature.
The first empty can clatters
down the concrete steps. How
much better socially is canned
lunch than bottled lunch! No
horrid sound of breaking
bottles, and no splintered glass
underfoot. And no little boy
dwelling on one whilst empty-
ing the bottle, to snatch it away.
Mackay goes the way of all
batsmen. A mild cheer, and we
settle back, glasses in hand,
can on bar in front. We gaze,
contemptuously, across the
ground. We think, and say,
“What, today, have the silver-
tails got that we haven’t got?”
Trousers pulled up to knees
—a ppro v e d hot - weather
fashion here —we criticise the
English bowling. Heroes Mc-
Donald and Davidson give us
ample reason, and excuse, to
rejoice.
Believe it or not, through the
amber glow a voice saying,
“G’day, Jock Kalic. Howdy,
Lew. Good show.” I reply:
“Cheers, Joe. Have a can.”
Just like that. A fellow-
villager, right beside one. He
congratulates us on our cold
brew ; then ambles off to re-
join Mum.
Contented applause for good
English fielding marked by the
irregular clatter of two cans.
One notes the culprits two
youngish chaps racing their
empty cans down the slope.
When they reach mature age
they will learn that, in our
village, cricket is the excuse
for a day’s dignified drinking.
Lunch is taken by the
players. I dash away to secure
two paper-cups of tea. Our
good sandwiches washed down
with the hot tea, we sit back
to watch the passing show;
or, more properly, to observe
our brother and sister cricket-
watchers deal with their food.
And to talk on weighty cricket
matters with a stray child or
two.
Come the Fates to set us all
agog again. Drama and fire
arrive with Grout. Inspired, no
doubt, by a chorus of invisible
Olympians, he holds us
enthralled till 3 p.m.
Then one’s gaze settles on
one of those new little houses
of wood that are located in
most sections of the great
stand. One investigates, and
returns with the fruits of ex-
ploration—more cans.
Phooey to the silver-tails
opposite!
And one enjoys every golden
minute of cricket at its best.
Good sport, good brew, good
comment from our middle-
aged maturity—especially as
we will never be able to play
again, but can praise. v
Deep in the afterjoy of our
day we recount to each other
details of Grout’s lovely hooks.
As we wander across the pedes-
trian-crossing, holding-up that
moronic motorist, we decide
hazily that Grout scored at
least eight glorious hook-
shots for four. And dirt
cheap at ss. 6d. each for
admission.
Kalic.
# # *
Pay As They Go
“Zorok”: Due to visit some
19 or 20 countries and play
70 matches, most of them in
Britain but some in such places
as Karachi, Dusseldorf, Paris, Van-
couver and Hollywood, an Austra-
lian Old Collegians’ cricket-ieam
of 18 players, a manager and live
officials (described as “subsidiary
playing members”), set out a week
or two back and have already
played a few of their arranged
matches.
Each member in the party had
to put £l2OO into the kitty, and
economists might note that some 20
or more cricketers, all of whom
were prepared to meet that cost,
were knocked back. (Another
similar, world-tour is planned for
next year, and some of those who
missed-out this year could then
make the grade.)
Objects of the tour, as expounded
in a souvenir programme, are to
give Australian cricketers the oppor-
tunity to see how the game is
presented in other countries; by
personal contact to help cement
close ties between cricket-playing
countries; and to make the players
on their return “better equipped to
maintain the game’s prominence in
this country.” With so many otter-
ing, the selectors were able to go
on cricketing ability, and there are
several first-graders in the side, one
or two of whom have played higher
cricker.
Captain is accountant Jim Court,
skipper of Melbourne University
team, of which he has been a
member since 1951; the University,
of course, plays in Melbourne’s
pennant-cricket. Vice-captain is
Goulburn (N.S.W.) grazier Jetf
Prell, former skipper of The King’s
School Ist XI. He has played lor
Combined Southern Country XI,
and has led teams on tour inter-
state.
First-graders in the team include
two members of Melbourne club,
which won the 1958-59 Melbourne
pennant premiership. One is Barry
Stevens, who was in the Victorian
Shield team (1956-58); he’s a cousin
of S.A. opener Gavin Stevens, who
is in the Australian team to tour
India and Pakistan. The other is
Angus Mackay, who opens for
Melbourne with Test-opener Colin
McDonald whenever McDonald
plays pennant - cricket. Both
Stevens and Mackay have been high-
scoring pennant batsmen.
Another Victorian first-grader is
South Melbourne batsman Peter
Falconer, who has as good a future
—or perhaps even a better one—
in Australian Rules football. In
1958, in his first year with V.F.L.
club Geelong, he topped Geelong’s
voting for the “best and fairest”
Brownlow Medal.
One of the most interesting per-
sonalities in the side is Leo O'Brien,
dour Victorian and Test left-hand
opening-batsman of the 1930’5, who
has now reached his own half-
century but is still as lean as whip-
cord. O’B rie n, a lightweight
amateur boxer, was reported to
have threatened Larwood during
the “bodyline” series, “You hit me
—and I’ll hit you.” The record-
books don’t say whether there was
any hitting.
A Sydney first-grader is David de
Carvalho, wicketkeeper - batsman
with both Sydney University and
Paddington. A former Paddington


start the day right!
m®
y^OIWC
E»06«
i»iss
all-rounder, John Sweeney, is also
in the side.
A Queenslander going along (as
medico as well as player) is all-
rounder Dr. Leslie Westaway, who
has represented Queensland Country
against the M.C.C.
The tour was organised by a
Wagga (N.S.W.) grazier, Graeme
Wallace-Smith, who was overseas
with one of the two South Australian
country sides which have had
successful tours of a similar nature
in the past six years.
The team sports a special tie —■
a gold kangaroo resting on a crown.
* * *
The Horses
For its meeting featuring the
£lO,OOO Stradbroke Handicap
(seven furlongs), and £12,315
Brisbane Cup (two miles) the
Q.T.C. has earmarked £41,690
(including the 300gns. Cup
trophy). The meeting opens
on Saturday, June 13, and con-
tinues on the Monday and
following Saturday. The best
sprinters from the eastern
States and from New Zealand
have been nominated for the
Stradbroke, while the Cup and
the Moreton Handicap have
attracted leading stayers from
all parts of Australia and New
Zealand.
* * *
Evidently encouraged by the
success of Wiggle in the Strad-
broke last winter —she carried
7.5 and defeated New Zealand
champion sprinter Yahabeebee,
with Grifite and Duchesne
dead-heating for third
sundry owners have this year
nominated their two-year-olds
for the rich sprint. Australia’s
best youngster, Fine And
Dandy, is one of them;
another is the smart Tamberan.
They’re sure to find it tough.
The line-up should be one of
the best in Brisbane’s racing
history.
Association, winner of the
First Maiden Two-year-old at
Doomben last Saturday, comes
from a family of winners. His
dam, Te Loch, has thrown such
other successful Queensland
gallopers as Second Release,
Civil Jury and Rimlock. The
colt is by Justice Jury (imp.),
and his family also produced
High Caste. Countwood, who
narrowly won the Second
Maiden Two-year-old, is a
brother to another Brisbane
winner, Earlwood, being by
Boxwood (imp.) from Honey
Buzz by The Buzzard (imp.).
Honey Buzz is a sister to
Buzalong, winner of many
races, including the Caulfield
Cup.
• • • •
Sydney and ex-Queensland
jockey George Moore, who
is collecting a princely screw
these days to ride for the
"Ali is in the grass-trap again."
French-headquartered stable of
Prince Aly Khan, had his first
experience of the thrill of win-
ning one of the classics at the
home of racing when he
kicked-home Taboun in the
Two-thousand Guineas at
Newmarket last week. Im-
mediately afterwards —maybe
impressing on him that he
wasn’t riding in the bally
colonies now —he copped the
displeasure of one of the lordly
gentry. On his way to weigh-
in after the race, with
saddle and gear under arm and
smiling broadly, George paused
at the behest of a press photo-
grapher just as he would do
any day of the week at Rand-
wick or Flemmo. Instantly,
according to report, he was
prodded with a ducal walking-
stick and told to “hurry along
in there and weigh-in, Moore.”
Whatever might be thought the
proper retaliation for being
poked in the ribs with a cane,
one thing is quite certain—that
in touching the winning rider
before he had weighed-in the
aristocratic stipe committed a
far more serious breach of
the Rules of Racing than
Moore would have done had
he posed for photographers for
an hour. The aristocratic rib-
poking could have incurred the
winner’s disqualification as
the Queen herself was reminded
pretty sharply a year or so
back when she rushed up with
the intention of congratulating
the rider after one of her horses
had won a big race.
• • • •
Canterbury Park trainer Jack
Denham, who has a big team
in work, went for a good win
in the Carlita Stakes at War-
wick Farm on Saturday with
Delsound. Five minutes before
the start the price was 5 to 1,
but the gelding was so heavily
backed that he started favorite
at 6 to 4. The plunge missed
—Delsound finished sixth, but
he didn’t have much luck in
running in the field of 19.
Obviously he had shown the
stable something to go on. By
way of rubbing the tough luck
in, Denham was to see another
of his team, Essayist, with
stable apprentice F. Hodder in
the saddle, later win the Moore-
bank Handicap in brilliant
fashion at 200 to 1. There
wasn’t the proverbial bob for
Essayist!
Judging by the easy manner
in which favorite Beechley dis-
posed of the opposition in the
juvenile Novice for colts and
geldings at Warwick Farm he
could do well in major three-
year-old races in the coming
season. He hadn’t won before,
but his form was solid enough
for him to be made an odds-on
favorite. Prince Crown finished
second after running erratically
over the final stages. Darby
Munro trains Beechley for the
executors of the estate of late
A.J.C. vet. V. Davis. Beechley is
to be spelled briefly before be-
ing trained for the rich races of
the spring. He is bred to stay,
being by Delville Wood (imp.)
from The Duchess by Le
Grand Due (Fr.) from Kirrang
by Magpie (imp.). The Duchess
is a sister to Aristocrat, whose
successes included the A.J.C.
St. Leger, the A.J.C. Plate
(2£ miles) and the Randwick
Plate (2 miles).
Brothers Ern and Sid Day
race Rio Barb, Sid training the
filly at Rosebery, where she’s
noted for pace, but she was
at 40 to 1 in the six-furlongs
Two-year-old Novice at War-
wick ; it’s a small-betting
stable. Stewards asked ques-
tions about the improved form,
but jockey L. Billet was able
to tell them that she was
unable to handle the heavy
going at Randwick at her prior
start. Rio Barb is by Aus-
tralian-bred sire Rio Janeiro,
whose oldest progeny are two-
year-olds. Few of
them have yet been
tried. The Day
brothers have raced
nearly all the pro-
geny of the filly’s
dam, Barbara Pen-
theus, and Rio
Barb might prove
the best of the half-
dozen. Barbara
Pentheus is by Pen-
theus from Paka-
naire by Legion-
naire (imp.).
Edspell was an-
other to make
quick improvement
to win at the Farm,
in Graduation com-
pany, after having, like Rio
Barb, shaped only moderately
at Randwick on Anzac Day.
Edspell’s stablemate Diamond
Vista won the Flying, in which,
however, trainer Reg Cook
felt more optimistic. The good-
looking chestnut won well,
starting third-favorite. Stan
Cassidy rode the Port Vista
four-year-old confidently, wait-
ing on the pacemaker, New
Spec, until they’d turned into
the straight. Diamond Vista
used to be a tearaway sprinter
who set up big leads, but he’s
being given time to settle down.
It was his 10th success, and his
third for Cook. Grey Ghost
proved a handful for apprentice
W. Dickson, but he ran on
well into second place. New
Spec may not be quite as good
as formerly ; he tired into third
place after leading clearly at
the home-turn.
Experienced horsemanship
won the four-horse May Handi-
cap at Warwick, G. Podmore
headily landing the race on out-
sider Kurrawong, who hadn’t
been tried at 12 furlongs until
Saturday. New Zealander Sea
Hornet never looked likely. It


PROTECT
YOUR
ASS ETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
?,t YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
was stated that Kurrawong
might be sent to Adelaide for
the Birthday Cup.
New Zealander Comte De
Paris, who had won at Rand-
wick last October, was perhaps
the best thing beaten at the
Farm. Second-last in the field
of 19 at the half-mile in the
Welter, he unwound a terrific
finish down the centre of the
track and in another few yards
would have won. He could
quickly make amends, and
maybe will race better at one
mile —the seven furlongs could
have been just a trifle short for
him.
• • • •
The two-year-old Khorassan
(imp.) gelding Sir Ibex, third to
Beechley and Prince Crown,
may soon win. Dam of
Sir Ibex, Sabina, is by
Foxbridge (imp.) from Lady
Hetty by Lord Warden (imp.).
He comes from a staying
pedigree, and could do well
over middle-distances in the
coming weeks. His family pro-
duced Yeman (Auckland Cup,
two miles), and Deceptive
(Waikato Cup, two miles).
* * *
At Flemington
One for the Unusual Stakes:
at Flemington last Saturday no
fewer than six of the eight
events were won by last-start
winners.
Gaybao’s win in the 14-
furlongs Cardinia Handicap
was that gelding's fifth in a
row, and his easiest yet—he
was only cantering to land the
money by six lengths. Hutchin-
son, who rode him nicely, is
to be on him again in the
Adelaide Cup on May 13.
Another form-horse to keep-
up the good work was Scenic
Star, who made it three in a
row when she won the Dover
Handicap down the straight-
six. With 29 runners in the
Dover the books must have
reckoned they had a winning
chance, and they opened the
betting at fives the field.
Punters, though, wanted only
Scenic Star, who shortened to
twos, and proved again the old
racing saw, “The bigger the
field, the bigger the certainty.”
With Riverina lad Roy Higgins
riding very confidently, she had
the race .won at all stages.
That good galloper Webster
again showed his class by run-
ning second ; he was back to
a sprint-distance after winning
the 10-furlongs Sandown Cup
on March 30. He is to run
at the Adelaide Cup meeting
before he goes to Brisbane, and
should pay his way in both
cities.
• • • •
Although punters were to
stick to form later in the pro-
gramme, when they • made
Scenic Star and Gaybao
favorites, they threw the form-
book away in the earlier
jumping-events. Top Rail had
won at his previous two
Hurdle starts —at the Valley
and Bacchus Marsh (by eight
lengths at the Marsh) —but he
was a liberal 6 to 1 in the
Barkly Hurdle. He ran home
strongly from well back at the
mile to win comfortably.
Former New Zealand rider R.
McKenzie has ridden Top Rail
in his hat-trick of wins. The
aged Angus gelding will spell
briefly with the Nationals in
view.
In the Grassmere Steeple
Tranquil Glow, who had
scored a five-lengths win in
the Gordon Steeple at Caul-
field, was at even more per-
plexing odds than Top Rail-
backers of the Helios gelding
got 12 to 1 for their money.
The five-year-old chestnut, who
is out of former champion
mare Tranquil Star, gave a
dashing display in the Steeple,
leading from barrier to box
and clipping l|sec. otf the
course record. He is the best
’chaser seen out so far this
season, and could be really
good.
There was a chance to look
for two-year-olds with staying
potential in the divisions of the
mile Ferndale Handicap. In
this race last year Sir Blink
gave a pointer to his spring
successes, and no doubt the
connections of the two winners,
Deep Tan and Top Peal, will
be thinking ahead to the
Derbys. For Deep Tan it was
a second win in succession, but
the Rego gelding was lucky on
each occasion. In the Acorn
Stakes at Flemington in March
he had the race presented to
him when Royal Crown ran
off the course, and while he
was making his winning run
down the straight on Saturday
his co-favorite, Justice, was
hopelessly boxed-in until the
race was all over. Neverthe-
less, Deep Tan is a good type
and will win more races.
There could be a bright
future ahead of Top Peal, who
opened his winning-account in
the Second Ferndale. The
Empyrean-Victory Belle colt,
trained by Tommy Woodcock,
led most of the way in beating
the good filly Colour Glow.
He could be well above
average. His time, too, was
excellent —4.404, which bet-
tered Deep Tan’s by l^sec.
* * *
Pacers' Derby
Three New Zealand - bred
horses filled the places in Friday
night’s final of the £4OOO Pacers’
Derby at Harold Park,
champion colt Blue leading
throughout to beat Sandy Volo
and Danny Hanover. Veteran
N.S.W. reinsman J. D. Watts
dashed Blue to a four-lengths’
lead in the first lap, running the
first half-mile in a sensational
I.2ysec. Blue was allowed to
coast in the middle stages, but
when challenges came in the
last half-mile Blue was full of
running, and went on to beat
the fast-finishing Sandy Volo
by three-quarters of a length,
with Danny Hanover and
favorite Eden Monaro close
behind. The drivers of both
placegetters stated that the
early pace set by Blue was too
much for their colts. He ran
the llffur. in 3min. 9fsec.,
recording a mile rate of 2.9.
Before coming to Sydney
Blue had won eight races in
New Zealand, including the
Derby and Challenge Stakes.
His mile-rate in the Challenge
Stakes, 2.5 f, was an Austral-
asian record. He will now be
spelled, and later set for the
£15,000 Inter-Dominion at
Harold Park next year.
* * *
Footy
In a fiery meeting Mel-
bourne gave last year's V.F.L.
premiers, Collingwood, their
second defeat in two games
(13.14-12.7), though ’Wood
shaped better than the team
thrashed by South. North
always had Richmond’s mea-
sure, 16.12-10.20, and Carlton
beat Footscray 15.14-8.7.
South kept up its good work
by beating Fitzroy 13.21-12.11,
and Hawthorn, held by Gee-
long in a fast, exciting game,
got away from the Cats only
in the last quarter, 18.15-12.12.
Essendon was stronger and
faster than St. Kilda, and
finished six clear goals ahead,
18.15-12.15.
* * *
Manly and Randwick now
share top place in Sydney’s
Rugby Union, Manly on
Saturday beating Parramatta
26-6, and Randwick outplaying
University 27-14. Gordon was
lucky to beat Eastwood 15-14 ;
St. George toppled North 11-3,
and East beat Drummoyne 20-
11 —the Reds, who lack a goal-
kicker, for the second successive
game scored one more try than
did their conquerors. In the
first fixtures ever put on by
the N.S.W. Rugby Union on a
Sunday, North Harbor I over-
whelmed South Harbor I 32-9,
after South II had done ditto to
North 11, 28-6.
* * *
St. George, North and West
all won their Sydney Rugby
League games on Saturday,
St. George taking it eas> to
beat South 41-8, North trounc-
ing East 24-4, and West, with
fullback Russell kicking 11
goals, slaughtering Canterbury
46-8. Balmain stopped Parra-
matta 20-12, and on Sunday
Newtown beat Manly 15-11.
* * *
Tn Sydney's Soccer Federa-
tion games, Canterbury ran all
over Budapest 6-2 and, with
straighter shooting, could have
reached double-figures; Apia
beat Bankstovvn 3-2 ; Corrimal
downed Granville 2-1 ; Glades-
vilie played its third scoreless
draw of the season, this time
with Sydney Austral ; and
Hakoah crushed North Side
5-0. On Sunday Prague
doubled Auburn’s score, 4-2,
and Balgownie beat Concord
2-1.... The English F.A. final
was won by Nottingham Forest,
which beat Luton 2-1, after
playing with 10 men through
the second half. It was history
repeated—in 1898, last time
Notts played in the Cup-final,
it played a man short after
“lemons” to down Derby
County 3-1.
* * *
At Indianapolis, world
heavyweight champion Floyd
Patterson successfully defended
his crown for the fourth time
by k.0.-ing British challenger
Brian London in the 11th.
Patterson was miles ahead on
points anyway ... In the first
fight put on at Brisbane’s new
Festival Hall Stadium, Clive
Stewart outpointed Welsh
middleweight Fredd : e Cross in.
a dull scrap over 12 rounds.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
"LAW" IN RED CHINA
[Part 2]
Tn view of the decline of
the teaching of law, three
professors of law in Peking
proposed to establish a de-
partment of international law
and a legal research institute.
But their attempt was a com-
plete failure, and as a conse-
quence they were denounced as
Rightists. These professors
are Ch’ien Tuan-sheng, presi-
dent of the Peking College,
Lo Pang-yen, the deputy-head
of the Legal Bureau of Peking
Municipality, and Wang T’ieh-
yai, professor at Peking Uni-
versity.
The standard of the judges
in the People’s Republic of
China has been subject to much
criticism. For instance, the
“adviser” of the Supreme
Court, Yu Chung-10, com-
plained that the standard of
the judges of the various courts
were surprisingly low and they
were not able to write a judg-
ment. He said that there was
a great waste of competent
lawyers who worked in the law
courts under the Nationalist
regime, but are now working
as “coolies in hospitals and
crematoria.”
Mr. Yu’s complaints were,
however, vehemently rejected
by the judges of the Supreme
Court. According to these
judges, “there are fifty-odd
old Communist kanpu in the
Supreme Court, who joined the
revolution in their teens and had
abundant experiences in class
struggle. Many of them had
University or high-school edu-
cation.” Yu Chung-lo com-
plained further that in passing
sentences the judges simply
write out the autobiography
and confessions of the defend-
ants with a final verdict of
guilty of what is described as
“great and evil crime.”
This complaint was also sup-
ported by Yang P’eng, of the
Legal Research Bureau of the
Ministry of Communications,
who said that there were no
laws “upon which the judges
based their sentences, and that
the judges are practically all
party and Youth Corps mem-
bers who have no idea of what
law is. They render their
judgment from the standpoint
of class-struggle. Therefore,
for the same kind of offences,
there could be sentences of
great variance. The ignorance
of law has also been attributed
to those who served in the
Government, legislative and
judicial organs.
These articles on “Recent Legal Development in the
People’s Republic of China’’ were prepared for publication
by the International Commission of Jurists at the Hague,
the Australian member of which is Sir Owen Dixon, Chief
Justice of the High Court of Australia.
The purpose of the commission is “to contribute to the
establishment of a world in peace under law’’ —corresponding
to the concept of the Rule of Law.
This article, taken from the commission s “Bulletin,”
is based entirely on source-material published in Peking or
Shanghai by Red Chinese agencies of one sort or another,
and therefore speaks for itself.
The Constitution of the
People’s Republic of China
which was adopted in Sep-
tember, 1954, has been severely
criticised by Ku Chih-chung, a
well-know lawyer and journa-
list in Shanghai. Mr. Ku
expressed the view that the
Constitution existed only in
name. In support of this view,
he put forward the following
arguments: (1) While Article
85 of the Constitution pro-
vides: “Citizens of the
People’s Republic of China
are equal before the law,” it is
not so in fact; (2) The Con-
stitutional guarantee contained
in Article 89 which provides:
“No citizen shall be arrested
except by the decision of the
people’s court or with a war-
rant of the people’s prosecu-
tion yuan,” was completely
ignored when arrests were
made during the Sanfan and
Wufan opposition movements
and in all cases of counter-
revolutionaries ; and (3) Article
87 provides for “freedom of
speech, freedom of press,
freedom of assembly, freedom
of association,” but there is
absolutely no freedom of press
and association under the arbi-
trary power exercised by the
London “Evening Standard.”
“I THINK I’LL TAKE THE BOWLER—JUST LIKE AN ORDINARY INTOURIST.”


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
IT-JACKSON &
%. o'SULUVaa
-Afe ptyltd J
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LTNOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Communist authorities at all
levels.
Mr. Ku concludes that
“everybody considers the Con-
stitution a useless paper, and
from the Communist Party
Committee Chairman Lieu
Shao-ch’i down to the ordin-
ary citizen, nobody cares for
the Constitution.” This state-
ment was made in June, 1957.
Two months later came the
following denunciation from
the Communist party:
Ku Chih-chung made a shame-
less attack on the Constitution. He
shall learn that the Constitution
protects the freedom of the people;
but he will be disappointed if he
hopes that the Constitution will
protect the freedom of speech, press
and assembly of traitors, counter-
revolutionaries and Rightist
elements.
In the circles of the jurists
who have been considered
“Rightists” by the Communist
party there appears to be a
great concern about the lack
of learning in the field of inter-
national law.
In the opinion of these so-
called Rightist jurists, there
are only Communist kanpu
who are considered as experts
in international law. Such
concern has been expressed
publicly by Wang T’ieh-yai of
Peking. University and Ch’en
T’i-chiang, head of the Inter-
national Relations Research
Institute. But for having held
such views they were both
condemned at the anti-Rightist
meetings.
The Communist party had
repeatedly emphasised that the
Chinese Communists made
great contributions in the field
of international law, notably
the enunciation of the Five
Principles {Pant'ha Seela) of
Peaceful Co-existence adopted
at the Bandung Asian-African
Conference the expression
Pancha Seela has been bor-
rowed from Buddhism in the
hope that it would attract the
uninformed masses of Asian
nations—and the work being
done for “purging the
imperialist privileges in colonial
territories.”
The Chinese Communist
party further explained that
“international __ law is one of
the instruments (for) dealing-
with international problems.
When this instrument is useful
to us (the proletariat), we use it.
When this instrument is of no
use to us, we use other instru-
ments. But the majority of our
lawyers of the old school of
international law tie themselves
into the restrictive framework
of international law.”
The People’s Republic of
China appears to have imported
from the Soviet Union the
system of Procuracy—a basic
feature of Socialist legality
instituting complete control
by the Executive over all stages
of judicial processes. In this
field, the administration of
justice, like everything else such
as agriculture and industry,
was expected to make a “big
leap forward” during 1958.
From the Report on th'e Tasks
of the People’s Procuracy of
Canton since 1956 submitted
by Tseng Ch’ang-ming, Chief
Procurator of Canton, to the
Third Canton People’s Con-
gress on May 25, 1958, it
appears that the guiding policy
for procuratorial work is being
streamlined to the extent that
justice has become a second-
ary consideration to speed.
Speaking of the result
New York “Herald Tribune.”
IT’S KINDA GETTING CLOSE TO HOME.
obtained from “experimental
laboratories” in Canton, Mr.
Tseng reported:
The result of the experiments was
spectacular: without sacrificing
efficiency in work and with due
respect to legal procedure, we were
able to shake off the fetters of old
practices and do away with 32
kinds of unnecessary procedures.
Now, on the average, only three
hours are required to dispose of
a case, involving all procedures
in effecting arrest, examination of
findings and prosecution at the
court. As compared with the pre-
rectification record, the new method
raised the efficiency of work several
tens of times.
In thus equating speed with
efficiency, the Chief Procurator
of Canton gave further
explanation:
“Speed” means swiftness in
approving arrests, approving each
case promptly as it turns up. In
ordinary circumstances, decisions
should be reached within one hour.
Cases demanding prosecution should
b'e scrutinised promptly as they
-come up; in ordinary cases, it
shall not take more than 24 hours
for completion of scrutiny at the
procuratorate and prosecution at
the court after filing a case.
On the political- and legal
front, the rectification cam-
paign has been carried on by
the China Political and Legal
Affairs Society. At its third
annual meeting in Peking on
August 20-21, 1958, Wu Te-
feng, its deputy-chairman and
secretary - general, submitted
the following work report on
behalf of the council:
Led by the party, the Society of
Political and Legal Affairs has taken
an active part in the rectification
campaign and the anti-Rightist
struggle over the past year, and
has systematically exposed arid
criticised the reactionary speeches
and actions on the part of some
Rightists in the political and legal
circles. Pursuant to the guiding
principle and policy of the party
and the State, the society has
expanded legal research activities,
improved editing and publication-
work, developed friendly contacts
between legal circles of China and
the legal circles* of foreign countries,
and pressed forward its own work.
It would appear that all these
activities have been conducted
under the leadership of the
Communist party. Wu Te-feng
pointed out that legal science
is a science of strong class
character and a science used in
the class struggle. He pro-
posed to establish a “brand-
new science of socialist law
guided by Marxism-Leninism,
and Mao Tse-tung’s teachings.”
He suggested that legal workers
should wage an irreconcilable
struggle against old legal views
and revisionism—the political
and legal thoughts of bour-
geoisie—break-down the un-
desirable and set-up the good
on the ideological front of legal
science, reform the proletariat
and eliminate the bourgeoisie
and plant the red flag of prole-
tarian revolution everywhere.
This “rectification campaign”
was examined on a nation-
wide basis at the Fourth
National Judicial Work Con-
ference on August 20-23, 1958.
The conference was jointly
convened by the Supreme
People’s Court and the Minis-
try of Justice. It was a large-
scale “rectification meeting”
for national judicial work,
attended by the responsible
personnel of the people’s
courts and justice departments
(bureaux) of all provinces,


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies .. .. .. 2/r
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
municipalities and autonomous
regions as well as responsible
members, judges, and clerks
of intermediate and basic-level
courts.
The conference praised the
enormous achievement . in
judicial work, and pointed out
that effective party-leadership
was a fundamental problem
for the exercise of the dictator-
ship of the proletariat and a
prerequisite to the carrying out
of Socialist transformation and
Socialist construction. In no
uncertain terms, the meeting
called on the law courts in all
places to fight firmly against
the work-style of the old
judicial school. The confer-
ence reaffirmed the principle
that “the people’s court should
be absolute in its submission to
party-leadership, and there
could not be the least negli-
gence and vacillation. The
people’s court must victoriously
accomplish the sacred task
entrusted to it by the State
and the people. It must firmly
depend upon the leadership of
the Chinese Communist Party
Central Committee as well as
the leadership of party com-
“New Statesman.”
mittees at all levels. Only in
this way could court work be
made to meet the change of
situation as well as to imple-
ment concretely the lines and
policies of the party under the
guidance of the correct line.”
It is difficult to reconcile the
conclusions reached by the
Fourth National Judicial Work
Conference with the provision
of Article 78 of the Constitu-
tion of the People’s Republic
of China unanimously adopted
by the National People’s
Assembly on September 20,
J 954. This Article provides:
“The people’s courts are inde-
pendent in the exercise of their
judicial authority and are
subject only to law.”
Color and Sport
/Commenting on the action
of the Brazilian President
in instructing his Consul-
General in South Africa to can-
cel a football-match between a
Brazilian team and Western
Province when he heard that
four negro players had been
omitted from the side, “Man-
chester Guardian” said:
“Unpleasant though it would
have been, this is the kind of
action that the New Zealand
Rugby Union should have
taken some years ago when it
found that Maori players
would not be accepted for a
tour of South Africa.
“No outside country can
force the South Africans to
include colored sportsmen,
where sufficiently skilled, in
their teams. But equally none
should accept virtual dictation
from the South Africans about
the composition of their own
sides.
“Such international sports-
bodies as the Empire and
Commonwealth Games Federa-
tion, the International Olym-
pic Committee, and the Inter-
national Federation of Foot-
ball Associations ought to take
note. When will they refuse
to accept the affiliation of
national bodies which discrimi-
nate against color or religion?”
Anti-Nuclear March
T ondon “Daily Telegraph”
comment on the Easter
march from Aldermaston to
Trafalgar Square in protest
against Britain’s possession of
nuclear arms:
“Having failed to make roots
in our parties and trade-unions,
in our churches and universi-
ties, the Popular Front seems
now to have taken to the roads.
The Aldermaston march was
only the latest of a series of
processions of protest—against
nuclear weapons, apartheid,
the Rent Act, Rhodesian
federation and British rule in
Cyprus. They may have been
non-party in leadership, but
they have certainly not been
non-political in purpose.
“Indeed, most of them have
in common the presence of
what might be called the
fellow-marching element: at
one and the same time bitter
and hopeful, thoughtful and
emotional, bohemian and
Christian, puritan and exhibi-
tionist —admirable tools for a
well - organised movement.
Shoulder to shoulder with the
churchmen and the Quakers,
the Tories and the Liberals,
the earnest and the eccentrics,
they produce a vivid caricature
of a pilgrimage. It merits our
attention if not our respect.
“The marchers appear to
agree only on one point: that
Britain should get rid of its
nuclear weapons. There are
cogent and disturbing argu-
ments, both moral and military,
against our having the H-
bomb. They have been
thrashed out repeatedly in Par-
liament and in the press ; they
have been both upheld and
denounced from the pulpit.
The argument goes on, as it
should go on if this essential
weapon in our armory—and
the consequences of using it —
is to command public support.
“But the marchers present
no new argument; they merely
make a demand. Their appeal
is not to reason but to
emotion ; their behavior is
intended to move us by a mix-
ture of the bizarre and the
macabre. They spoil their
cause by making it appear the
persuasion of odd-looking and
strange-sounding people. If
the Christian-pacifist element
could be seen alone in all its
simplicity the effect would be
more impressive.”
Mongolian
Manoeuvres
golia, one of the least known
of the “people’s democracies.”
As seen by David Floy, in
London “Daily Telegraph,”
the two events “are probably
not entirely unconnected”:
“Six of the 14 members of
the Mongolian Communist
party’s Politburo, including
Damba, the First Secretary,
were removed. In addition, the
President of the Great People’s
Hural (the ‘Parliament’), the
President of the Supreme
Court, the Prosecutor-General,
the Chairman of the State
Planning Commission and a
Deputy Prime Minister were
also dismissed.
“In short, practically every-
one of any importance has
been disgraced with the excep-
tion of Tsedenbal, the Prime
Minister and First Party Sec-
retary, who appears to have
asserted a personal dictator-
ship. It is clear, however, that
he leans heavily on Russian
support.
“Outer Mongolia is a
country with a total area equal
to that of France, Spain,
Portugal and Ireland together,
and a population less than one
million. It is part of a nation
divided: there are more
Mongols (about 1,200,000) in
Inner Mongolia, a part of Com-
munist China.
'‘What is more, the Chinese
still, in their heart of hearts,
regard Outer Mongolia, like
Tibet,' as belonging to China.
For the moment the Kremlin
appears to have reasserted its
dominant influence in the area
and is able to exert greater
economic control than China.
“But large numbers of
Chinese workers, have moved
into Mongolia in recent years,
much to the Russians’
discomfiture. On top of this,
the Mongols themselves,
whether they live in Inner or
Outer Mongolia or in Russia,
are intensely nationalistic, cer-
tainly no less so than the
Tibetans.
“It is possible that the
Russians chose the moment of
Peking’s concern over Tibet to
TlZhile world attention was
fastened on China’s sup-
pression of the Tibetan revolt,
some quieter changes—in the
form of a purge of party and
Government leaders were
taking place in Outer Mon-


BANKING SERVICE
IS PERSONAL,
HELPFUL
and FRIENDLY
The C. 8.0. provides a wide range of
expert services for the convenience of its
customers.
C.B.C. Savings Bank facilities are
available to all members of a family. Any
friend who has a C.B.C. Savings Account
will tell you how helpful it is and how
simply and quickly deposits and with-
drawals can be made.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
m
©
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
x
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
(DEPOSITS GUARANTEED BY THE PARENT COMPANY)
bring some order Into affairs in-
Mongolia.' It seems unlikely
that the Chinese will accept
this settlement as permanent.”
U.K. Cars in America
IT> eporting that the British
motor-industry took the
largest area of display-space
at this year’s New York Motor
Show, “Manchester Guardian”
comments :
“That is a bold attempt to
assert that British cars are not
a passing fashion in American
streets, but that their makers
have come into the American
market determined to stay. It
is of great importance to
Britain’s economy that they
should succeed in holding
and, if possible, increasing—
a market that has been won
by real enterprise in the past
few years.
“But the American manu-
facturers cannot be expected to
take this sort of competition
lying down. To some extent,
they based their post-war policy
on a wrong guess they
assumed that as more Ameri-
can families became two-car
and three-car families, they
would want second and third
cars on the same palatial scale
as their first.
“Traffic-jams, difficulty in
finding parking-space, and the
sheer cost of the imposing
products of Detroit, have made
the smaller European car
attractive. And the impressive
performance of the relatively
cheap sports-car, which the
British motor-industry has a
long tradition of producing
well, has made British cars
more attractive still. But the
American industry has its own
small cars on the'"way, and
competition in the small-car
market will soon be acute.
“To its credit, the American
industry has shown no sign
of appealing for new tariff-
restrictions to protect its
market: Detroit has faith in
itself. So, however, have
Coventry, Cowley, Luton and
Dagenham. This international
struggle has so far been clean
and fair, and it is in every-
body’s interest that it should
continue so.”
Adenauer
Three European editorial
comments, as quoted by New
York “Herald Tribune”:
Vienna “Die Presse” : “Has
not Adenauer become a symbol
of the ‘good German’ in broad
Western circles which still
harbor anti-German resent-
ments?
“It would be regrettable and
harmful if suspicions developed
that the British had brought
about the downfall of a man
who disagreed with their dis-
engagement plans. This is a
wrong interpretation which
would be apt to shake Western
unity, which now must stand
a severe test and cope with
Soviet propaganda, which is
most likely to be intensified.”
Amsterdam “Telegraaf”:
“In one respect Adenauer’s
policy had no success: the
reunion of the two Germanys
was not realised . . . Will
other politicians, even from the
ranks of Adenauer’s party, try
it in some other way? Less co-
operation with France, less co-
operation with Europe, conces-
sions to the Soviet Union?
Only Dr. Adenauer’s successor
will be able to answer these
questions.”
Stockholm “Doge ns Ny-
heter”: “It has been Adenauer’s
decade . he has personally
coined the political develop-
ment of West Germany in a
period of transition, in a
period of restless new building.
Adenauer has been accused of
stubbornness and lack of
flexibility. Whatever Js behind
these accusations, one cannot
forget the fact that he has
been governing a nation which
in a period of 10 years has
been completely transformed.”


THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMA TE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from tlie rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A. FISHER,, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
Legal Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
ZEALAND —NORTHERN DISTRICT
AUCKLAND REGISTRY
In Bankruptcy.
TO THOMAS KEYES formerly of Ash-
burton in New Zealand, Jeweller. —
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
appear before this Honourable Court on
Friday the 26th day of June 1959 at
16 o’clock in the forenoon and show
cause why you shoiiid not be adjudged
bankrupt on the hearing of the Petition
by H. Bolton and Company Limited
and Pronto Watch (Wholesale Distribut-
ing) Company Limited and Symonds
Jewellers Limited all duly incorpor
ated companies having their registered
offices at Auckland in New Zealand that
you the said THOMAS KEYES be ad-
judged bankrupt UPON THE GROUNDS
that you the said 'Thomas Keyes have
committed an available act of bank-
ruptcy in that you have departed and re-
mained out of New Zealand with intent
to defeat or delay your creditors for
three'months prior to the filing of the
said Petition. A copy of the Petition
and Notice containing information for
you will be forwarded on application
to this office. DATED at Auckland in
New Zealand the 22nd day of April,
1959.--F. W. PRESSLEY, Deputy
Registrar.
Any person having knowledge of the
present whereabouts of the said THOMAS
KEYES -is requested to bring this notice
to his attention. This notice has been
inserted by Mr. BLAIR DANIEL
WEBSTER, Solicitor, Auckland, whose
address for service is at Suite 7,
Wellesley Chambers, Lome Street, Auck-
land, New Zealand.
She leaned over and lowered
her voice, her big cotton hat
flopping mysteriously. “But, I
will tell you somezing... he is
mad!”
I stifled my laughter in green
leaves.
At last we had reached the
final rows of currants.
Sultanas would be a change,
at least. One might even face
eating them for a while ...
But Theresa was not there on
the last few days, and 1 realised
how lucky I had been, teamed
with such an expert. My new
partner was called Lightning
Joe, or sometimes Joe the
Streak, because he never moved
faster than a glacier. My score
of tins improved, but my
muscles ached with weariness.
But its tiny hands were like a
child’s, trusting and helpless.
I crossed to the next row and
put the lizard among the long
grass.
“You should have killed it.
They are nasty, like snakes.”
“Actually, I am rather, fond
of snakes,” I said.
After lunch I was lying in
the shade of a pear-tree when
the whistle blew.
“Come, you lazy one!” cried
Theresa, dragging me away.
She treated me like a child or
a mental defective.
It was a golden afternoon.
A slight change had brought
bars and flecks of cloud,
stretching across the sky like
a vast sea-beach of wave-
rippled sand, with blue pools
between. Once I sat on my tin
and stared, until I seemed to
be walking on that distant sky-
shore. Theresa banged a tin
over the vines just missing my
head.
By five-o'clock she had
picked more than twice as
much as I had. She mocked
gently at my slowness: “At
the end of the week I shall
have twelve pounds. And what
will you have, lazy one?”
“Oh. . . ! ‘Gold that lies
behind the eyes,’ perhaps.”
Theresa stared, then laughed.
“You are a silly boy ” she said.
The next day I spent the
lunch-hour lying in the dry
irrigation-ditch, where the
feathery wild-asparagus and
the purple-flowering lucerne
made a green cloud about me.
It was slightly damp, and
deliciously cool. By squinting
down my chest 1 could just
see Theresa, sitting with her
feet in the channel and talking
volubly to another picker. I
watched her with dreamy de-
tachment as she stripped
flowers from the lucerne and
tossed them away without
seeing them.
“Oh yes, he is allright ... I
like to pick with him,” Theresa
was saying.
And I missed Theresa, her
cheerful voice and the
glimpses of her firm, apricot-
hued arms among the green
leaves.
Poor Theresa had been away
to attend the funeral of her
father. She had come back
the day - we began on the
sultanas, and I didn’t know
what to say to her. There
was a black band round her
hat, and all the natural jollity
had left her rather square face.
Her lips were set in sullen
misery.
We picked silently down the
whole length of one row, the
big golden-green bunches fill-
ing a tin in no time, so that I
began to feel an expert too.
At the end of the row we
stopped for a swig from the
water-bag.
Theresa said, wiping her
mouth with the back of her
hand, “He szought this was
the Promised Land. And he
came here only to die.”
“Not only to die, Theresa.
He has made a home, there is
the block of land for your
mother”—
“And do you szink now he
has gone to heaven?”
“Yes, of course,” I lied.
To my surprise she flung her
fruit-stained apron over her
head and sank on to the red
sand. “Oh!” she sobbed. “He
will be so lonely fhere. He will
not know anyone there, and he
will never see me again. My
Poppa would not be happy
wiszout his Theresa. And if
I am to go to the other
place”—
“Theresa,” I said gently, “if
your father is in heaven, he’s
happy. That’s what it means.
If heaven for him is to have
his family about him, you are
there already, for him. You
must not think of it as a place,
but as a state of mind. Perhaps
it is all a dream —life, death,
existence, appearence. The
important thing is to have
good dreams.”
She lowered the apron and
looked at me from reddened
eyes with something like a
smile.
“I szink you are crazy,” she
said. “Yet there is a kind of
sense in what you say. Some-
times 1 szink 1 would rather be
mad like you than sensible like
my Momma.”
“Thank you, dear Theresa.
There was a bloke who said
much the same thing once, but
he was a Dane, not a Yugo-
slav. His name was Polonius.”
“So?” said Theresa, staring
at me. “I do not know any
Danish peoples.”
I sat close beside her and
kissed her wide, generous
mouth, innocent of lipstick.
She didn’t seem to mind. The
tears were already drying on
her cheeks.
“Sensual heat and sorrow
cold are undivided twins ...”
I murmured.
“What is zis you say?”
She was stroking my hair.
“Nothing. I was quoting
from a great scientist, called
Huxley.”
“You have read many
books.” Theresa was looking
at me admiringly.
“Oh, a good many. Words,
words, words. There are other
things more important.”
I drew her under the shadow
of the vines where I could
console her properly.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charier A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £81,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
two spurs, about a mile south-
east of what seemed to be the
most northerly of the Mavalu-
headwater gorges, but we might
be wrong. It will be a tricky
job sneaking up on the place
unobserved. Dawn-raid job,
I’d say. We couldn’t see any
regular tracks. No signs of
people, but some smoke.”
We had another beer and
talked Mokolkols.
McCarthy and I were old
friends, dating back to pre-
war days at Talasea, where I
had served under him as a
cadet. Neither of us had ever
worked in the Mokolkol coun-
try, but we both knew the
hoary tales recounted along
the Nakanai coast, and
remembered some of the old
patrol-reports, destroyed dur-
ing the war, that had been on
file in the tiny Talasea sub-
district office.
HThe Mokolkol story is a
-®- strange one, even for New
Guinea.
The Gazelle Peninsula, at
the northern end of New
Britain, largest island of the
Bismarck Archipelago, has had
permanent European contacts
for more than 80 years. It
is an area of rich volcanic soil,
hot, humid, subject to earth-
quakes and eruptions, but
immensely productive.
Its centre is Rabaul, a beau-
tiful crater-harbor flanked by
quiescent volcanoes. This is
New Guinea’s busiest port,
from which radiates a network
of roads and tracks leading to
coconut- and cocoa-planta-
tions, and the villages of the
thriving Tolai people—the
most advanced, economically
and politically, of any of the
indigenous people of the
Territory.
Captured early in the Pacific
war, Rabaul became a strong-
hold, and ultimately a virtual
prison, for 80,000 Japanese
troops. The town was com-
pletely devastated by Allied
bombing, but has re-emerged
to be a busier and more pros-
perous little metropolis than
before.
Yet across the southern end
of the Gazelle, only 50 miles
from the Rabaul’s Cosmopoli-
tan Hotel, lies a 600-square-
mile tract of mountainous
virgin bush shunned by Euro-
peans and New Guineans alike.
Even in the year 1950 the
enterprising Tolais, the primi-
tive Bainings hillmen of the
adjoining ranges, the timid
Sulkas and Timoip hunters to
the south-east, and the Nakanai
fishermen to the south-west
never dared venture into this
area.
Presumably Jap bands
moved through it during their
long overland marches in
1944-45, but they left few signs
of their passing, and no record
of any native contacts. This is
“Come out and I'll behave .”
Mokolkol country, notorious
since early German times as
the domain of a mysterious
tribe of elusive and wanton
killers.
T\uring my first tour of duty
as a patrol-officer years
ago I had worked among the
villages strung along the reef-
girt Nakanai coast.
On fine evenings I would sit
with the old men under the
sighing casuarinas fringing the
gleaming black beach, watch-
ing the phosphorescent splashes
of mullet in the shallows, and
trying to improve my scanty
vocabulary.
My chief mentor was old
Sergeant Amalinu, a chunky
little bushman from Madang,
who was a gifted comedian
and a great favorite with the
grizzled elders. Many had
served with him in ancient
Mokolkol expeditions. As the
betelnut-fumes mounted, and
my tobacco circulated, the
reminiscences would become
more highly colored, with long
conversations reported in lov-
ing detail, and every man the
hero of his own anecdotes.
Or perhaps the untameable
wildmen, the legendary defiers
of Authority, were the real
heroes. To a romantic young-
ster the tales had an added
piquancy from the knowledge
that, somewhere in the brood-
ing tangle of ranges behind us,
the same predators still
roamed.
Fantastic tales were told of
these people, whose reputation
inspired abject fear even in
relatively sophisticated tribes,
like the Tolais. Contrary to
the usual pattern of primitive
New Guinea society, where
perennial feuding between
fairly static village-communi-
ties is normally punctuated
with intervals of uneasy amity,
involving common feasts,
exchanges of hostages, barter
and intermarriage, the Mokol-
kols apparently had no fixed
place of abode, and, quite
definitely, no social or trading
relations with any other group.
The New Guinea rain-forest
has insufficient game and
edible fruits to support humans
practising a strictly nomadic
type of subsistence-economy,
but the Mokolkols had come
close to achieving this. Their
hidden gardens were small,
scattered, and apparently
evoked none of the religious
and sentimental attachments
that bind most Papuo-
Melanesians to their land.
Once discovered by outsiders,
their cultivation-patches were
abandoned and never revisited.
A second peculiarity, in a
land where the bow, sling,
spear and club are conventional
indigenous weapons, was the
Mokolkol predilection for axes.
Their victims were always:
chopped. This was one reason
why the depressed little Sulka
and Timoip communities of the
South Coast, a favored prey,
regarded the raiders with a
superstitious horror, believing
them to be masalai, or forest
demons in human guise.
Invariably' the Mokolkols
struck without warning, after
carefully spying-out the land.
They generally chose isolated
beach-hamlets at times when
the men were out fishing, or
surprised parties of women
peacefully working in their
gardens. The raiders always
attacked with beserk ferocity,
killed without mercy, and
vanished within minutes,
snatching up any readily port-
able loot, especially axes, as
they went.
Following a raid they might
not be heard of again for
months, and then in a distant
locality. They were expert
bushmen, and were credited
with unbelievable feats of
endurance and agility. Thus,
the Timoips believed that the
Mokolkols lived in trees, could
see through solid objects, were
able to move swiftly through
heavy jungle without touching
the ground, and could become
invisible at will. They were
said to have no dogs or poultry,
but to train their pigs to
follow them silently through
the bush.
{To be continued next week)


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Salaries and the Press
In all this talk about the
“salary - grab” no one is
reported as telling the people
that the salary of Queensland
State members is higher than
that of our Federal members,
and that the proposed “rise”
amounts to a yearly each
voter for the M.H.R. and,
similarly, lfd. for Senators.
A Brisbane daily featured a
letter with big headlines sug-
gesting that in future our
Federal members must be
addressed as “Very dear Sir.”
1 wrote the following letter to
that paper: “Is the person who
wrote that letter aware that the
salary of our State members in
Queensland is £2400 p.a. and
the salary of our Federal
members £2300? That is, the
24 State members in the City
of Brisbane receive, in total,
£57,600 p.a. in an area cover-
ing 350 square-miles, and one
Federal member, say for Ken-
nedy, covering an area about
800 times the size of Brisbane,
gets £2350? All the Brisbane
members sleep at home every
sitting night.”
Although another letter was
featured with the heading
“Freedom of the Press,”
objecting to the P.M. exposing
the tactics of the combine-
section of our metropolitan
press, this freedom only ex-
tended to attacking Federal
members and not defending
them, as my letter was not
published.—J. A. J. Hunter
(Ex-M.H.R. for Maranoa, ex-
Federal Minister).
Caring for Old Homes
It seems useless trying to
overcome the housing-shortage
by building new homes unless
essential repairs and mainten-
ance are done on existing-
homes.
Thousands of homes, shops,
offices and other buildings are
being allowed to fall into ruin
simply because the owners
won’t spend money on them. .
Unfortunately, far too many
landlords are content to allow
their rented properties to fall
into disrepair, knowing that
the land has such a false value
that they won’t lose much if
the place gets into such a
state that it is condemned and
demolished. There are, of
course, tenants who do nothing
to help keep a building in good
repair, but this sort of thing
is often induced by the
tenant’s feeling of insecurity.—
Eureka (N.S.W.).
Voltaire and Religion
It’s futile for “Bon Chat”
(B. 15/4/’59) to quote Vol-
taire as being in favor of new
religions when, as a matter of
fact, he was au fond hostile to
“Well, what do you DO at sea ?”
everything except a vaguely
held, contemporary Deism.
“The theist,” he wrote,
“does not know how God
punishes, how He rewards, how
He forgives. He is not rash
enough to flatter himself that he
knows how God acts ; but he
knows that God does act, and
that He is just. The difficulties
with regard to Providence do
not at all disturb his faith,
because they are only great
difficulties and prove noth-
ing.”
A Christian could scarcely
put things better.
Voltaire was not consistent
over a long life in the matter
of religion, and at the end
made steps towards returning
to Catholicism. In 1936,
Alfred Noyes, who knew Vol-
taire’s works very well, wrote
a 635-page study of him, and
concluded with a flourish:
“None of his sayings has more
of that many sided spirit in it
than his devastating reply to
the philosopher who wanted to
start a new religion, and con-
suited Voltaire about the best
way to do it. The best way,
said Voltaire, is to get your-
self crucified, and then rise
from the dead.”
I put my trust in Noyes. As
for Talleyrand, who in his
youth sat at Voltaire’s feet, it
is quite likely that he said
almost the same thing in
slightly altered circumstances,
as “Bon Chat” says, and in a
slightly different way. Finally,
the saying “If God did not
exist, it would be necessary to
invent Him,” while it has the
Voltairean tang of ambi-
valence, says definitely that
God does exist, and it has no
bearing at all on the starting
of new religions. Martin
Haley (Q.).
Developing Australia
Can’t agree with “Plain
Australian” (B. 22/4/’59)
when he says that “the hap-
hazard and higgledy-piggledy
method of one State compet-
ing against another” in estab-
lishing new industries is “bad
for the country as a whole.”
There has been neglect of
the inland and coastal cities
outside the State capitals, and
State politicians who have
professed to be staunch sup-
porters of decentralisation have
proved unable to arrest the
flow of population to the
metropolitan areas. But it
must be recognised that eco-
nomic considerations, in the
long run, determine the loca-
tion of industries,
Overseas State - promotion
tours by politicians and their
advisers may direct attention
to the facilities and resources
of a particular State; but the
overseas interests who decide
to establish industries in Aus-
tr,alia have the final say on
choice of sites. If they are to
be influenced by considerations
of our internal politics, it
will be less likely that capital-
investments from such sources
will be made available. Vic-
torian provincial and country
areas have benefited in the
last few years from the
activities of overseas investors
—thanks to the State Govern-
ment’s initiative in publicising
Victoria.
As to competiton between
States for new industries:
surely this is beneficial, not
detrimental? In any other
field, competition is recognised
as stimulating and essential ;
from the average Australian's
viewpoint, the more new
industries we get the better,
and unless all States go flat-
out to attract the interest of
overseas capital the total influx


IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
will be less than what the
nation needs.
What might be welcomed by
State Governments is a
Federal grant for State-pro-
motion purposes.— Wusslean
(Vic.).
Clip the Strip!
A feature of the newer
suburban areas of Sydney is
the nature-strip, a grass verge
between the footpath and the
roadway, often several feet
wide.
With a lot-frontage of 50ft.,
or 60ft. one could do with a
motor-mower to keep the strip
tidy. But paspalum often gets
a hold, and, given favorable
conditions, the growth soon be-
comes so heavy that the
pedestrian has to make a
detour into the street when
approaching a neglected nature-
strip—either that or suffer
paspalum-stains on shoes and
clothes.
Old people often haven't the
strength or inclination to keep
wide nature - strips neat.
Younger car-owning house-
holders spend a good deal of
time away from home, conse-
quently keeping their yards
only in reasonable order. The
appearance of a street with
some nature-strips in good
order, others uncut, is very
ugly, quite apart from the in-
convenience caused by rioting
paspalum.
In most parts of the older
suburbs the nature-strip is
non-existent; where it is found
it’s usually very narrow. In
future subdivisions nature-
strips should be done away
with. More houses could be
placed in street areas, and
householders with no relish for
being “garden-coolies” would
be thankful. If municipal
councils insist on nature-strips
they ought to provide the
labor to keep them trim. —•
Cunedda (N.S.W.).
Science and Religion
Science neither opposes nor
disproves religion / any more
than the reader of a book of
rules opposes or disproves its
author.
Science and religion deal
with different matters. As a
branch of inquiry dealing with
natural laws and phenomena,
science is concerned with find-
ing what makes things tick.
First, it accepts that they do
tick, then proceeds to analyse
the laws governing the way
they tick under any given set
of conditions.
Religion concerns the accep-
tance of something or some-
one who makes the laws de-
creeing that things should tick
as they do, and ponders on the
nature of this creator and his
intentions beyond The merely
physical. Too often the word
religion is used when what is
meant is one of the recognised
traditional forms of religious
belief —men can be deeply
religious without conforming
to the views of any of these
forms.
Many scientists belong to
this group. Their researches
make them intensely aware of
some purpose in the universe
and of some universal law-
maker. They regard medita-
tion on these as an individual
matter, shunning regimentation.
When something hasn’t gone
as expected I’ve known a
friend say, “It doesn’t follow
the laws we know because of
one we don’t. If this hadn t
gone wrong we wouldn’t have
known it existed. After all,
we just follow the rules —we
don’t make them.” — Tabba
(Q-).
Understaffed Schools
If the current shortage of
teachers in N.S.W. schools
continues, the Education De-
partment may find it necessary
to revert to certain principles
of the Madras system of edu-
cation.
The earliest schools in
N.S.W. were organised along
the lines of this system. It was
conceived around 1789 by one
Dr. Andrew Bell. While
superintendent of the Madras
Military Orphanage he found
it very hard to get properly
qualified male teachers. So
he placed his classes under the
charge of monitors. Senior
students only were taught and
supervised by the headmaster.
These monitors subsequently
developed into student-
teachers.
Speaking from personal ex-
perience, I suspect that the
system is already gaining firm
hold in some of our over-
crowded, understaffed schools.
Two of my children in an
upper-primary class often refer
to the entertainment of lessons
conducted under the authority
of the form-captain the
teacher might have been ill,
at a staff-meeting or needed
somewhere else.
Whether or not the system
would encourage the coming
generation to join the ranks of
teachers is another question.—
Pat (N.S.W.).
That Literature Course
My thanks to “Matric.
Student” (B. 15/4/’59) for put-
ting the record straight on the
Vic. matriculation-course in
English literature ; 1 quoted the
list as supplied by my son’s
school, which did not include
the alternative books.
But as one play is prescribed
in the compulsory section, and
four others must be chosen,
out of the total of 11 books
studied, five (not four as
“Matric. Student” states) must
be plays. Unless it is conceded
that drama is by far the most
important branch of English
literature, devoting almost
half the course to it seems to
be excessive. Plays were
written to be acted, not read.
Notwithstanding the endeavors
of the Elizabethan Theatre
Trust to present plays to school
audiences, it is very unlikely
that Victorian matriculation-
students will get the oppor-
tunity to see even one of their
set plays on the stage.
While I accept the assurance
of “Eng. Lit.” (B. 15/4/’59)
that English teachers learn a
lot about acting in the course


of their job, surely few would
acquire anything like an inten-
sive knowledge of stagecraft
or the playwright’s art. As for
writing plays, 1 should think
the average teacher has as
much time and capacity as
anyone else to master the tech-
nique of writing plays. If
more teachers tried their hand
at it, and encouraged their
pupils to do so, Australian
play-writing would be given a
healthy boost.
To return to the English-
literature course, the range of
novels is certainly wider than
1 had realised ; it seems unfor-
tunate, however, that it is open
to any school to pick on three
works that have little to com-
mend them to the average
student The Odyssey ,
Northanger A bbey and
Great Expectations, all of
which were included in the list
I quoted. It’s a pity no room
was found for more poets and
for branches of literature such
as biography and criticism. —
Doynest (Vic.).
Children in the Home
Many modern parents are
too house-proud for the
children really to enjoy home
(B. 25/3/’59). They don’t like
their brand-new hue-purchased
furniture to be knocked about.
I was bred in a comfortable,
fair-sized bungalow in a
middle-class western suburb of
Sydney. The furniture was old
but serviceable, and it didn’t
matter if active youngsters
knocked it about a bit. (It had
been bought for cash.) The
bathroom had a metal bath
and unplastered, painted brick
walls and a wooden floor. Be-
cause no harm could be done
we were often allowed to use
it on a hot summer afternoon
to play whaling or naval war-
fare. _
Dad had a work-bench in the
woodshed. As he had no really
expensive or delicate tools for
young hands to ruin, the boys
of the house and their friends
were free to use it. The house
had a glassed-in side-veranda,
and behind this a little room
we boys used as a “den.” An
outside stairway gave access to
the veranda from the yard.
In holiday-time this veranda
was a popular resort of neigh-
bors’ boys. They could come
and go and enjoy our company
there without inconveniencing
the adults of the house.
Parents today are so con-
cerned with “keeping up with
the Joneses” that they won’t
allow their children to use
their homes as we did. Hence,
children find long holidays
boring, unless they are able
to go into town or on excur-
sions.—Castlereagh (N.S.W.).
Expressways
A lot of nonsense is being
written and said about speed
on our roads. Accidents are
caused by speed unsuited to
conditions and circumstances.
A motor-vehicle crawling
along Bourke Street, Mel-
bourne, George Street, Syd-
ney, Queen Street, Brisbane, or
Rundle Street, Adelaide, at 30
m.p.h. is potentially a greater
cause of destruction than a
vehicle going 60 m.p.h. on an
open road. Of course, where
there is a smash at high speed
someone is more likely to be
seriously injured.
The 1958 edition of the
U.S.A. National Safety Coun-
cil’s “Accident Facts” records
a reduction of road-deaths,
comparing urban and rural
results per hundred-million
miles of travel: “Down 3 per
cent, in 1957 over 1956, while
total vehicle-miles rose 3 per
cent. This reduced the death-
rate from 6.3 to 5.9, the lowest
yet in American history. All
decreases in deaths and most
increases in mileage occurred in
rural areas, and in conse-
quence the death-rate dropped
from 8.6 to 7.9. In urban areas
deaths were up slightly, but
mileage was up more, to pro-
duce a slight decrease in the
death-rate from 3.5 to 3.4.”
While deaths on the open
road in the U.S.A. on a
mileage basis exceed deaths in
cities, it is clear that the per-
centage-figure is improving,
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 537
Across
1- —Some animal with a sharpener, he has an accident. (11)
6—Expert has the bad turn. (3)
B—Our hog’s father changed in such ways. (13)
10 — Tale Eve has to raise. (7)
11— A ban, thanks to some barracking. (5)
12— Double back and extol you when swallowed by a
boy. (4)
15—Tea’s for Charles. (4)
17— A European as he might describe
himself for it and some Moslem
with a number on. (8)
18 — Wrong way to give the lad poise
bit by bit, as in story-telling. (8)
20 —This makes King David’s grand-
father duck bunk. (4)
22 —One about a two-dimensional
space. (4)
24 —King of Tyre giving a greeting
to Aries. (5)
26—Pertaining to borax. (7)
28— Post-office business and a metal
duck at a tempo a little more of
slow walking pace. (4, 9)
29 Mournful South Australian
coppers. (3)
30 — Time’s out of mind? (6-5)
Down
1 — Kitty behaves like a gull chang-
ing course, being crackers. (9, 6}
2 The things there with tea
socks. (5)
3 Tom at the centre of South Aus-
tralia mouths at atoms if
exploded. (7)
4 Exhaust by too fast to
inflate. (4, 3)
5 Curiously greet this bird. (5)
6 It keeps the mud off accommo-
dation for punctuation. (9)
7 Next stroke off a bumper alter-
native beside some villain any
way. (2, 4,2, 2,5)
9—Scot with a leg broken. (4)
13 — A sea-girt region giving access to
the seating blocks. (5)
14 — This makes some panelling pop
nothing. (4)
15 — Herr Cupid curiously twit-
tered. (9)
16 — Turf article mentioning drink. (4)
19 —A sheep with first-class crescent
tongue. (7)
21 —In the manner of George
Gordon. (7)
23 —Four-note musical theme is not
up. (4)
25 —You and I joining the M.C.C.
with regard to epithelial secre-
tion. (5)
27 —Capital tune in business. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 536.


WHY SUFFER
RHEUMATISM
or ARTHRITIS
THIS WILL INTEREST YOU
When Mr. R. A. Stratton was given an old Indian Formula
for the relief of Rheumatic complaints some 30 years ago he had
no idea that one day he would be sending the Powder round the
world to relieve sufferers. ‘‘Naturally as a strong, robust youth, I
thought little about it at the time,” said Mr. Stratton, ‘‘but in
later years I became a chronic Arthritis sufferer myself, so I
had the Formula made up by a Chemist and took a course of the
Powder for some months, which effected a complete cure.
‘‘l naturally sympathised with anyone else who had been similarly
afflicted, so I decided to have the Powder prepared in commercial
quantities so I could help the numerous sufferers from Rheumatism
and Arthritis and 1 must confess the results have been amazing”
When the Company first started
selling; the Powder its sales were
limited to this State, but as a
result of its success it was quickly
acclaimed a WORLD ■'DISCOVERY
and its fame spread throughout
the Commonwealth until we now
have a clientele of over 50.000 and
have established an enviable repu-
tation for our successful treatment
of all types of Rheumatism and
Arthritis.
People who have been almost
crippled with hands, feet, and
joints can now use their limbs with
perfect freedom from pain, and
cases have been reported where
men are back at work as a result
of our wonderful Treatment, and
note —this Las been accomplished
by the use of only one teaspoonful
of powder daily—nothing could be
simpler.
STRATTONS RHEUMATIC and
ARTHRITIS POWDER contains
no harmful drugs, will not affect
the heart, and is a natural remedy
for all complaints of the Rheumatic
Group.
It will further assist to improve
your health and keep you fit. Suf-
ferers who have had Cortizone,
Gold Injections and Ray Treatment
—all alike have found relief by our
proven methods of which we are
justly proud. Thousands have
found freedom from suffering—
WHY NOT YOU?
A . . . . FOUR WEEKS SUPPLY CARTON, Instruction Pamphlet
TREATMENT ADVICE and a SPECIAL CONCESSION RATE
VOUCHER if your complaint needs further treatment .... costs
only £1 POST FREE. Send to:
STRATTONS RHEUMATIC POWDER LTD..
9 BARRACK STREET, PERTH, W.A.
because of the construction of
better laid-out and controlled
high-speed expressways.
Australian road-safety bodies
should get off their “speed”
hobby-horse. No longer can
they properly use American
high-speed expressways as a
springboard for their claims.
These bodies would do well
to think about advocating the
construction of expressways
on which traffic may move
both expeditiously and safely.
Professor K. T. Healy, chair-
man of the Transportation and
Traffic School of Yale Univer-
sity, U.S.A., recently stated in
Brisbane that the expressway
type of road was the most
economical, and, besides being
the fastest, allowed least wear-
and-tear of vehicles and was
the safest per million-miles of
travelling.—Chas. E. Rattles
(Q).
Wildlife Magazine
Frank Snow’s reference (B.
25/3/’59) to the possibility of
a new wildlife magazine being
published in N.S.W. makes
very cheerful reading indeed.
I agree entirely that such a
publication is needed. We need
a newspaper (or periodical)
along the same lines as the
little monthly produced by
Herald and Weekly Times,
Ltd., Melbourne, from 1946 to
1954.
This magazine was a well-
produced, well-informed and
well-illustrated monthly with
as wide a range of topics as
one would find anywhere.
Subjects ranged from
astronomy to photography,
with great emphasis on plant-
and bird-life. The standard of
the articles was excellent; con-
tributors obviously knew their
subjects,
I’d like to know why it dis-
appeared from the bookstalls,
Apparently we can’t afford to
publish even one paper on the
preservation of our national
heritage. Although a publica-
tion of this type might never
be a strictly paying proposi-
tion its value as an authorita-
tive, educational journal would
be immense.—Max Childs
(Q-).
Banking
As one with more than 40
years’ experience of banking,
I’ve been watching with
interest the movement towards
nationalisation —a movement
that has accelerated over the
last decade.
Steadily the Commonwealth
Bank is gaining ground in the
pursuit of new customers and
business. Take, for example,
building-societies: clauses m
the legal document executed
by the borrower state that he
must transact his banking at
the Commonwealth Trading
Bank. Then there are the
numerous saving-bank branches
providing trading-bank facili-
ties. Although these factors
influence the domestic side of
banking, in the wider sphere
controls are being exercised
which must divert business to
the Commonwealth Bank.
Take the latest development
—the short-term money-
market. It seems to me that
the central bank, by allowing
certain approved dealer-com-
panies to operate and borrow
therefrom, is further strength-
ening its grip on trade.
This and other moves
received the blessing of a
private-enterprise Government;
as a layman one is rather be-
wildered at the situation,
which would seem to lead to
the ultimate destruction of the
private-banks in their existing
form.
Perhaps their greatest hope of
survival would be to amalga-
mate, thus reducing overhead
costs. Again, a trend towards
other avenues, such as hire-
purchase, savings-banks and
unit-trusts, could help the
private-banks to stay on the
scene.—C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
Industrial Accidents
Injuries at work are a prob-
lem of modern life. In the old
days there were plenty of
accidents, but they hardly con-
stituted a problem: the man
who was hurt was left to his
own devices. Now we think
he should be paid something
to tide him over his off-period,
or, if his injury is permanent,
to recompense him further.
The amount he receives is
worked-out in one of two
ways: either on a statutory
scale or by a jury. These
methods lead to greatly differ-
ent results. For instance,
a Queenslander has been
awarded £20,000 for the loss
of his legs—workers’-compen-
sation would have given him
£2500.
One reason for this disparity
might be that the heavy court-
awards are intended to
punish delinquent employers,
encouraging them to safe-
guard their men. But, in prac-
tice, insurance-companies pay
-—no real sanction is imposed.
Some people might argue
that a workman who can prove
his employer is to blame for
the accident is justified in get-
ting more money. I think the
answer is that most industrial
accidents are, at root, nobody’s
fault. They are the inevitable
results of fallible human-
beings dealing with machines.
All arguments aside, injured
workmen in general don’t con-
sider bringing an action. Even
if they have a good case and
enough money to pursue it,
they, seize on the quick, sure
payment rather than take the
chance of winning a lengthy
judgment.
But I think we could do with
a single scale of compensation
for all industrial accidents. —
C. W. P. (Q ).


On properties where
sheep have been
attacked by “scabby
mouth” each fresh
drop of lambs should
be vaccinated between
marking and weaning
by a special vaccine
recommended by Gov-
ernment veterinarians,
Marking should of
course, be carried out
by using Elastrator
Rubber Rings.
aoor
100% Australian-
made from Aus-
tralian Material
LYSAGHTS
ESTABLISHED 1884
WIRE NETTING • FENCING WIRE • BARBED WIRE
WIRE NAILS
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER
in every Roll of Netting
m
, OSE
ZINC OXIDE
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
LYSAGHT BROS. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road,
Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
DAIRY AND POULTRY HUSBANDRY
HThe Dairy Research Founda-
tion at the University of
Sydney was formally estab-
lished three weeks ago, and a
similar foundation for the
poultry-industry is to be estab-
lished shortly. Both innova-
tions are significant; they
show that we are beginning to
recognise the importance of
research in our future develop-
ment.
It is when an industry is
passing through a period of
great economic stress —certainly
in our primary industries, any-
way—that there is a demand
for research ; in recent years
the demand has been brought
about by the necessity for
meeting overseas competition,
developing methods of produc-
tion suitable to our conditions,
and reducing costs.
Today both the dairy-
industry and the poultry-
industry have to face adverse
trading conditions overseas,
and at the same time withstand
rising costs of production and
difficulties on the home-market.
In the past not enough money
was devoted to research for
these industries, except on the
dairy-processing side, and con-
sequently results have been in-
adequate. Without detracting
from work that has been done,
any comparison of it with what
should have been done is
bound to make these defici-
encies very apparent.
Generally speaking, we in
Australia have had to adapt, as
best we could, work done over-
seas, often by our competitors
and always years in advance.
Apart from inadequate re-
search, there has also been a
shortage of trained men and
lack of suitable training-
facilities.
Again, we have either had to
import specialists in dairy- and
poultry-husbandry, or send
graduates to other countries for
post-graduate training. This
has meant a serious loss to
these industries, which will not
RUPERT RUSHBY
RUDDER, g.m. of
the Nestle Co. ( Aust .), Ltd.,
elected chairman of the Dairy
Research Foundation at the
University of Sydney, has been
26 years with the co. He
hobbies at painting in water-
colors and yachting.
be overcome until there are
inducements for students to
specialise in one or another of
the branches of husbandry, and
this in turn can only come
from the existence of facilities
during the student's under-
graduate training. That is
why the establishment of these
foundations is so important to
the industries and to Australia.
Money raised from all sec-
tions of the industries enables
the foundations to offer means
for training both under-
graduates and post-graduates
in the specialist requirements
in either of the two forms of
farm husbandry. This training
will be available to students
from all States, and also to
those from overseas, including
those here under the Colombo
Plan.
The research planned falls
into three broad divisions:
economics of management;
improvement of breeding;
economics of nutrition. This
research and the practical train-
ing are being carried - out
at Cobbitty, near Camden
(N.S.W.), where two
farms —May Farm and
Corstophine—have been
given to the University
by the Federal boards
representing the meat,
wool, and dairy indus-
tries. Corstophine is be-
ing developed as a major
dairy-centre.
A further function of the
foundations will be to see that
the results of their work are
made available to those actively
engaged in the industries. It
is planned to sponsor national
conventions, like the recent
successful poultry-convention,
held jn Sydney ; to hold
summer-schools for all sections
of the industries; to recom-
mend and distribute publica-
tions to the industries, and to
organise field-days and meet-
ings,
H. J. Geddes has been
appointed Director of Animal
Husbandry Farms and Dr.
W. G. Whittlestone is Reader
in Dairy Husbandry, while
H. W. McNary, of Purdue


KUCHING'S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
University (U.S.A.), is to be
Director of Poultry Husbandry,
The foundations will be run by
a council, consisting of chair-
man, governors and members,
with representatives of the
University also included. R. R.
Rudder, general-manager of
the Nestle Co. (Aust.), Ltd.,
was elected chairman of the
Dairy Husbandry Research
Foundation at its inaugural
meeting.
These foundations —first of
their kind in Australia
cannot fulfil all the needs of
these industries, but they will
certainly be able to do much
towards overcoming difficulties
of the past. They will bring
together the primary producer,
the industrialist and the
scientist, who, working as a
team, may reach a better under-
standing of the problems to be
faced. When fully established,
they will go far towards im-
proving methods of production
and quality of the product, and
so stabilise these factors, as
well as those of marketing,
both at home and overseas.
Safflower
“N.”: Here in
safflower is best sown in
late autumn or winter;
July is possibly the best
month, because, sown late,
the plants grow no higher than
3ft. and can be taken-off easily
with an ordinary wheat-header.
Sow at the rate of 51b. to
71b. an acre, in drills about
30in. apart and cover the seed
to about 3in. Drainage must
be good—waterlogging causes
serious damage. The plant
thrives in any good soil, though,
where necessary, 2cwt. of super,
an acre should be drilled-in
with the seed. Unless the land
is “clean,” young plants should
be scarified ; when they are
growing strongly, they will
choke-out most rubbish that
appears.
Long periods of wet weather
will interfere with pollination,
and seed will be lost, but warm,
dry days will produce yields
of up to 1 ton an acre, though
the general average is about
half that.
Safflower can stand long drv-
spells, and provided rain falls
when it comes into bud it will
still produce a good crop. It
has few pests apart from
aphids, so spraying would be
uneconomical.
Safflower-seed yields a very
fine oil which is edible, though
mainly used in the manufacture
of soap and high-class paints
and varnishes. Last season,
growers received about £33 a
ton for first-grade seed, and
this is likely to increase in the
coming season.
In the Dalby district, when
seed was harvested, sheep and
cattle were turned into the
paddock to clean-up the foliage.
They, ate the lot, leaving only
the bare stems.
Queensland Agricultural
Department says there is little
local experience on the use of
safflower as a dual-purpose
grazing and grain crop. In
trials at the Biloela Regional
Experimental Station in 1957
safflower yielded only reason-
ably satisfactory grazing (1.5
tons an acre, green material)
from September 6 to 11,
though by October 11, it had
sufficient regrowth to provide
a second, but lighter, grazing
(0.5 tons an acre). The trial
was ploughed-out at this stage
to control weeds; final yield
was, safflower 2 tons an acre,
compared with oats, 2.1 tons an
acre.
Protein-content of the seed
may vary from 15 to 24 per
cent., according to variety,
season or environment. Seed
is relished by most livestock
and poultry, but, as the most
valuable part is the oil, it is
generally more profitable to
sell the seed and buy back the
meal. If fed alone, the high
oil-content would probably
produce digestive disorders.
Overseas reports show that,
added to small grains (1 part
of safflower to 10 of other
grain) before milling, all the
dust is settled and saved. The
protein-content of the meal
after the oil has been extracted
depends on the amount of hull
remaining, varying from 45
per cent, to as low as 18 per
cent. These meals may be used
in much the same Vay as
cottonseed- or linseed-meals,
and when “full fed” do not
appear to have any undesirable
effects on the animals or the
flavor of their product. Over-
seas work indicates that both
hulled and dehullled meals are
equal to other protein-con-
centrates, part for part.
Cocksfoot
“Belar”: Cocksfoot (Dnc-
tyles glomerata) will flourish in
a variety of soils and climates.
It’s a perennial grass, growing
to 2ft. in ordinary soils, but in
moist clay-loam, with good
rainfall, it will reach up to 4ft.
An erect, tussocky grass, it
grows rapidly from seed and
soon provides a good stand,
which may be lightly grazed
during the first season. Heavy
stocking when the grass is well-
established helps to keep tus-
socks from forming. Thick
sowing is also recommended to
overcome this tendency.
Sow in the autumn at 301 b.
an acre, when sowing it alone.
A mixture of 151 b. each of
cocksfoot and perennial rye-
grass, with 51b. red-clover, to
the acre is better than cocks-
foot sown alone, since clover
makes a more balanced feed.
Cattle and sheep may be
turned-in about six months
after sowing; a rapid grower,
it quickly recovers after being
fed-off. When young, it is
palatable and greedily eaten by
all classes of stock, which do
well on it.
It may be cut for hay, and
the after-growth will provide
good grazing till late autumn.
If allowed to seed occasionally,
the stand will thicken and
become even more permanent.
Quick-frozen
Vegetables
“A.L.S.”: Ulverstone, on the
north-west coast of Tasmania,
is the centre of a flourishing
quick-freezing industry now
that International Canners
have converted their canning-
plant to freezing. They quick-
freeze more vegetables there
than in any other cannery in
Australia.
A record crop of 1,000,0001b.
of beans has been harvested in
the Devonport and Ulverstone
areas —an increase of 700,0001b.
on the 1957-58 season. Some
of the yields reported were as
high as 20,0001b. climbing-
beans and 12,0001b. dwarf-
beans to the acre. Payment
was at the rate of £31 5s. for
10001b., so some crops
returned over £600 an acre.
Pickers are paid 3d. for each
lib. beans they bring in, the
daily wage averaging £5,
though one picker, working
from daylight until dark,
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(23/4/’59)
Moderate rain is indicated on the Queensland north
and south coasts during May, although rainfall should be
poor in the balance of the State. Light to moderate patchy
rains should occur in June, although good rains should be
received in the southern half of the State during July. How-
ever, rainfall should continue to be poor in the far-western
divisions.
Rainfall should be poor in N.S.W. during May, apart
from moderate rain on the coast. Light to moderate patchy
rains are indicated in June, although moderate general rains
are likely in July, with well-distributed rains for the balance
of the year.
Victoria should be confined to light to moderate patchy
rains in May, although moderate rains are indicated in the
East Central, North-east and Gippsland. Moderately good
rains should occur in June, although again being patchy
during July, with well-distributed rains for the balance of
the year.
South Australia should receive reasonably good rains
during May, although rainfall should be light in the interior.
Good rains should follow in the agricultural areas during
June, although being poor during July.
Reasonably good rains are indicated in May in the
s.-w. agricultural areas of W.A., although rainfall should
be light elsewhere. Moderate rains below normal should
occur in the agricultural areas during the winter.
LENNOX WALKER.


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in ail Principal Country Towns.
F. S. WATSOy, Manager.
earned £lO 17s. by picking
8881 b.
The beans are planted in
October and November on
well-fallowed ground, which is
given a dressing of i ton super,
to the acre, with one bag of
sulphate-of-ammonia and one
of tlood-and-bone.
The Blue Lake climbing-
bean, imported from the U.S.,
is the variety favored by the
cannery. Climbing-beans are
planted by hand. One man,
working with a billy tied
round his waist and a piece of
piping to drop the beans
through, should plant about \
acre a day. All he has to do
is to drop three beans at a
time through the pipe and
kick the dirt over them with
his boot. The beans are
planted 3ft. apart, with 3ft.
between rows. Poles, erected
in groups of four and tied at
the top with wire, are put up
when the first runners appear
on the beans.
Dwarf-beans can be sown
with a drill. Usually two rows
are set together, with a space
before the next two to allow
for cultivation, which is
important for both types of
beans.
Unsatisfactory returns from
potatoes, field-peas and other
crops have forced farmers to
look for something to grow
with a guaranteed price, and
International Cahners’ Ulver-
stone factory provides security
for them by giving contracts!
for beans, peas, broccoli,
brussels sprouts and cauli-
flowers.
Hay Hints
“Windy”: The secret of
successful haymaking is to cut
at the right time. With
lucerne, get the mower out
when the plants start to flower
and tonnage to the acre is
heaviest. Cereals should be cut
when most of the heads are
out and some are starting to
flower. Cut too late, oats,
wheat and barley make tough,
fibrous hay, with most of its
food-value—particularly milk-
making proteins—lost. The
best oaten hay is made when
seed-heads have ripened to the
doughy stage.
After cutting, hay should be
dried quickly. Warm weather
is ideal for haymaking, but
showery or very humid weather
means slow drying. Hay-
making is difficult in some
districts, because the weather
isn’t right for curing, so silage
is sometimes a better proposi--
tion. Too much scorching sun
is no good, either. It bleaches
out the vitamins and makes
leaf-loss high and stalks dry
and brittle.
"I'd say about 36-23-37."
Drying too much on one
side and not drying enough on
the other is the way to spoil a
good field of hay. When too
much moisture is dried-out the
loss in protein and other con-
stituents is very high, while
the underdried part of the hay
may go mouldy in the stack.
The result is hay that varies
with every forkful a poor
risk in stack or shed.
Baling is the critical stage of
haymaking. There’s little point
getting hay to the right stage
to bale, and then leaving it
out in the weather. Even if
hay looks green it is not neces-
sarily too moist to bale or
stack. Pull out a stalk or two
and try it. If it bends and
twists without any sign of sap
oozing out, especially at joints
in the stem, it is good enough
for the stack. It may need to
be drier for the baler. The
pressure in the bale tends to
make heat more than in the
stack. On the other hand, if
the hay is too dry at baling
it will become very brittle when
handled. When eventually
opened and fed to the stock it
will be dusty and of little food-
value.
As soon as hay is baled it
should be stacked away from
the weather. Bales should be
under a shed for preference,
although they may be built in
the form of a stack with a
waterproof-cover. If the hay
is stacked loose, a waterproof-
cover is needed, too. Rain can
ruin a good stack of hay in
next to no time.
It’s best to have several
stacks and feed them out
according to age, so that fresh
hay will always be available
for stock or for sale.
*
Merino Field-days
“Falconet”: Touching on
the remarks here by “Hugo”
on our sheep-studs (B.
15/4/’59) what about Cap-
peedee and Koonoona? Cap-
peedee is one of the oldest
parent-studs in South Aus-
tralia, and Koonoona, founded
in 1863, has (vide the Aus-
tralian Stud Merino Flock
Register) more registered stud-
ewes than any other stud in
South Australia ; it is second
to Collinsville in the number of
rams sold for the year and top
in the number of ewes sold
by any stud. Koonoona field-
day was the first of this
year’s series. Over 700 one-
year-old and two-year-old rams
and one-year-old ewes were
penned for inspection. Sixty
wethers —bred in the saltbush,
Sin.-rainfall country, and by
Koonoona rams —were also
shown, and when shorn a few
days later, with 13-months’
growth, averaged 221 b. a head.
Over 350 visitors came to this
field-day from all the mainland
States of the Commonwealth.
Owing to previous sales the
only rams on offer were 16
two-year-olds, 11 of which
went at satisfactory prices.
Bfaek-heart Disease
“Ananas” (Q.): Black-heart
disease—one of the worst that
growers have to face —affects
pineapples internally, first close
to the core, then gradually
spreading through the fruit.
Usually it gives no outward
signs, though the skin of a
badly affected fruit is duller
than that of a healthy speci-
men, and the “eyes” are not
developed, while the top is
long-leaved and soft. There’s
no mistaking the disease when
the fruit is cut.
All varieties are attacked,
but Ripley Queen is the most
susceptible, with Smooth
Cayenne a close second. In
Queensland, only the latter
variety is accepted by the can-
neries for processing, and dur-
ing the winter wastage through
black-heart is over 75 per cent,
in some consignments.
No organism has been
as cause of the trouble ;
it seems due to unfavorable
weather - conditions. During
late winter and early spring in
southern Queensland, when
days are short, with cold, dry
conditions and strong westerly
winds, the disease is prevalent,
and losses heavy. Fruit from
healthy plants are less liable
to the disease than those from
unhealthy ones. Sugar-content
of the fruit also has some
bearing, those with a sub-
normal content being more
susceptible than those of high
content.
So far nothing has been dis-
covered to give freedom from


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,'
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
• •
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight— Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.J:
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year— l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to. country cheques ,
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub*
scription is paid direct to "The Bulletin" or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
the disease. Plantations should
be in full sunshine, where the
plants will have no shade, and
fertiliser should be given to
keep them healthy. Mulching
about the plants with sawdust
or some similar material will
keep the soil moist and at a
temperature suitable for root-
growth.
Treatment of plants w'ith
acetylene may be used to force
early flowering, bringing the
winter-crop forward up to
three months, when attacKs of
the disease are less likely. The
treatment consists of placing a
pinch of granulated calcium-
carbide or 2f1.-oz. saturated
solution of acetylene-gas into
the heart of each plant. A
single application only is
needed it the weather is fine
for 24 hours after the opera-
tion, and six to eight weeks
later the formation of a flower
will appear. In preparing the
solution, add ordinary com-
mercial calcium-carbide to
4gal. water and stir gently until
the action of the gas has
abated. A knapsack-spray
fitted with a trigger-release is
ideal for spraying.
Two growth-regulating hor-
mones are also largely used by
growers instead of the former
methods. These are alpha-
naphthalene-acetic-acid and
beta - naphthoxy - acetic - acid,
both obtainable under various
trade-names. Add these to
water to make a solution con-
taining 5 to 10 parts to 1 mil-
lion of the active constituent,
and apply with a knapsack-
spray. October is the best
month for the treatment, about
three months before the flower-
buds would normally appear.
Fruits may be a little smaller
than if allowed to develop nor-
mally, but they will be of
better quality, both in color
and sugar-content, and there
will be no wastage from black-
heart. The treatment should
not be given to undersized or
partly-developed plants.
Prickly-pear
“Cactus”: Members of
several shire-couricils on the
Darling Downs (Q.) are con-
cerned about the spread of
prickly-pear.
For instance, one councillor
reported that along 11 miles
of the Condamine Highway,
from Dalby westward, be-
tween 200 and 300 patches of
pear were flourishing, in spite
of cactoblastis. The insects
were evidently not in sufficient
numbers to clean-up the pest,
and pieces fell to the ground,
making more plants.. In wet
weather some of these were
washed about the district, and
grew wherever they came to
rest.
At some times of the year
cactoblastis made a “mess of
the pear,” but were not able
to kill it. And cutting and
burning was not recommended
by authorities, since it
destroyed the insects.
Other councillors said they
had had the same experience,
and the biological section of
the Lands Department was
requested to re - establish
colonies for breeding cacto-
blastis. Also, officers of the
department have been invited
to visit various districts to
inspect the pear and give advice
on its destruction.
In Brisbane, however, a
Lands Department official has
said that the question has
arisen at periods ever since the
great clean-up by cactoblastis
over 20 years ago, adding that
dry seasons favored the pear,
because there was little grass
to compete with it and the
cactoblastis - population was
reduced, and that with the
return of normal seasons a
large increase of the insects
would be on the attack.
Speargrass
“Buzoe”: Here in W.A.
speargrass is a curse to wool-
growers, particularly in the
wheat-country, but a Wongan
Hills farmer has found a
simple and cheap means of
dealing with it. He hasn't got
rid of the speargrass only
good farming and cultivation
will do that —but has countered
the worst of its effects.
When the grass is dry and the
seed has set he takes two
tractors or trucks into the
paddocks, sets them about
170yds. apart, and joins them
with about 800 ft. of steel-cable
about lin. in diameter old
mining steel-rope, costing
about £ll. The ends of this
are fastened to each of the
vehicles, which are driven
through the grass at about
15 m.p.h. The effect of cable
being pulled through is like
threshing, and causes most of
the speargrass-seed to fall to
the ground, where it can do
little damage.
If this attack is made in hot
weather, suitable for harvest-
ing, over 90 per cent, of the
seed will be knocked-out. In
three afternoons, working only
four hours at a time, 3400 acres
were covered, so the cost of the
operation is negligible. Clover
growing in the paddocks was
found to suffer no damage
from the dragging of the cable.
Two lots of weaners were
carried on the property: one
lot was pastured in paddocks
that had been threshed-out and
the other in untreated
paddocks. Those from the
paddocks where the speargrass-
seed had been knocked-out
were so superior that, if the
two iots had been boxed, they
could have been drafted-out
with ease. They weighed 81b.
more than those from the un-
treated paddocks, and their
fleeces were almost free of
seed.
Ihe cable must never be
fastened to the towing vehicles
too strongly—ensuring that, if
the cable gets caught on a
solid stump, the attaching wire
will break.
Rhubarb
“Acacia”: Rhubarb (Rhuem
hybrid uni) is easily cultivated,
but needs thorough prepara-
tion of the ground and a posi-
tion in full sunlight, with good
drainage.
After sprinkling lime at the
rate of 4ib. to the square-yard
over the surface, turn the soil
deeply and allow the bed to
lie fallow for three weeks.
Next, give it a heavy dressing
of rotted farm-manure, supple-
mented by 2oz. of a 50-50 mix-
ture of bone-dust and super,
to the square-yard, and dig it
in. A few days before plant-
ing, re-dig the plot, and bring
the soil to a fine, friable
condition.
Get two-year-old roots from
a reliable seedsman, and plant
in rows 30in. apart, with the
same distance in the row and
with the crowns covered to a
depth of not more tnan 2in.
Give plenty of water, and
apply liquid-manure every 14
days during growing. stalks
may be pulled as soon as ready.
Do not cut them, b,.u give each
a sharp tug, downwaros and
outwards.
Should plants throw-up
flower-stalks, cut them out, and
give a dressing of rotted
manure and plenty of water.
Some growers place old 4gal.-
drums with the ends cut out
over the plants, which
lengthens stalks without im-
pairing quality.
Late each autumn give the
bed a liberal dressing of well-
decayed manure, lightly forked-
in about the roots. A bed of
rhubarb will last four or five
years. The plants being gross-
feeders, they must be well-fed
to produce the best results.
Rhubarb may also be raised
from seed, but stalks should
not be pulled for two years.
Sow in a seedbed during
August or September and set-
out when large enough, spac-
ing seedlings as recommended
for roots. Seed may be sown
where the plants are to grow,
with four or five seeds in
patches spaced as above.
When the seedlings are a
month old, pull out all but
the strongest.
For general requirements,
Sydney Crimson (Topp’s
Winter) is the best ; it bears
throughout the year, except in
very cold districts.


CARRY THE
BURDEN
Establi;hed ISOS in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
N.S.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
One easy way to keep
a wife contented and
quietlv-occnpied by her
own fireside is to see that
she always reads the
bright, happy, typically-
Australian stories in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy one No, 3 Miller
kerosene-1amp.—6824.
Words of verse beginning:
Had you but seen these classic features
once
You need not laugh, sir:
They were not, then, such a burning
libel on Gods creatures,
I was one of your handsome men.
—6823.
To buy or borrow back-copies
of “Punch”—l9s4-59.—6822.
Information Sought
Information on poet George
Essex Evans ?
Born in London on June 18,
1863. His father, John Evans,
Q.C., who was for five years a
member of the House of Commons,
died when the boy was only a few
months old. His schooldays were
spent in Wales and in Jersey, and
when he was 17 years of age he
emigrated to Queensland. He
arrived in April, 1881, and got a
position on the “Queenslander.”
He entered the public service in
1888, afterwards becoming district
registrar at Toowoomba. His first
volume, The Repentance of Magda-
lene Despar, was published in 1891,
and in 1892 and 1893 he was asso-
ciated with J. T. Ryan in the pro-
duction of an annual, The
Antipodean; a third number
appeared in 1897. In 1898 Evans
published Loraine and Other Verses,
and in 1901 he won a prize of £5O
for his Ode for Commonwealth
Day. Five years later The Secret
Key and Other Verses, which
included part of the Loraine volume,
was published. During the last
two years of his life Evans did
much writing for the Queensland
Government on the resources of
northern areas. He died at Too-
woomba on November 10, 1909.
* * « *
Is the “Welcome Stranger” nugget
or the Holtermann nugget the
biggest nugget of gold found in
Australia ?
The “Welcome Stranger” nugget
is “claimed to be the largest of its
knid ever known,” according to the
Australian Encyclopaedia. Found
near Dunolly (Vic.) in February,
1869, the net weight of the nugget
as given in an official list issued by
the Victorian Mines Department
was 22840 z. 16dwt. 22gr. The
Australian Encyclopedia states that
the Floltermann nugget, found in
1872 at Hill End (N.S.W.) and
weighing 75600 z., was not actually
a nugget but a mass of gold found
in a reef.
* * * *
How to treat a health y-looking
orange-tree, growing in a spacious
lawn, producing fruit which turns
yellow and falls ?
Assuming the tree is free of all
scale and other pests and is well
supplied with animal-manure and
fertiliser, the cause of fruit-failure
might lie in weather conditions
adverse to setting. Hot dry winds
at blossom-time, cold dry winds,
very wet weather and dryness at the
roots could cause failure; absence
of bees is sometimes a contributory
factor. Citrus-trees should not have
a grass coverage on their roots;
they do better in lightly tilled, bare
ground in an area equal in radius
approximately to their own height.
When well-fed and not kept too
dry they stand hard conditions fairly
well. Dryness at flowering may be
the trouble in your case.
• • « »
Information on the Bush Church
Aid Society ?
The 8.C.A., as it is known
within the Church of England, is
an organisation conducting outback
missions in places not otherwise
served by clergy. It was founded
in May,. 1919, in the Chapter House
of St. Andrew’s Cathedral by clergy
and laity of Sydney; today there
are missions covering a wide area
m S.A., Vic. and N.S.W. The
medical services of the B.C.A. began
in a 'small cottage hospital at
Ceduna (S.A.), in 1924, and have
been extended to several centres in
S.A., W.A. and Vic. A Flying
Medical, Service, centred in Ceduna.
was added in 1938, and a Maii-bag
Sunday . School enables isolated
children to obtain Christian educa-
tion. The society has also con-
structed a wireless control-station
at Ceduna, the buildings of which
were dedicated in 1953 by the late
Archbishop Mowll. Cost of the
erection had been provided by
funds left by Sydney Jones, of
Melbourne, who left £5OOO to help
provide facilities for people in
remote areas; the control-station
has been called “Anna Mason
Jones Memorial,” to commemorate
his 'Wife.
• * * *
Recipe for Bulgarian-culture used
in making yoghurt ?
True yoghurt is made from the
milk of asseS or camels. To make
it from cow’s-milk, fill a quart
champagne-bottle up to the neck
with pure skimmed milk, add 2
tablespoons white sugar which has
been dissolved in a little water over
a hot fire and then add a quarter
of a cake of compressed yeast.
Tie-down the cork securely, shake
well and put in a rather warm room
for six hours, leaving it in a
refrigerator overnight. Open care-
fully with a towel wrapped round
the bottle—because of its effer-
vescence it may burst. Some of
the mixture may be kept to act as
a starter for another brew. Method
of preparing Bulgarian-culture is as
follows: in a jug or basin place
1 cup sugar, dessertspoon ground
ginger, juice of 1 lemon and a quart
of water. This should be covered
with net and left for three days.
At the end of this time, pour-off
almost all the water; each day for
four days add 1 teaspoon sugar and
i teaspoon ginger. This culture is
not necessary if you use the recipe
given above.
Brief Answers
8.W.: Spiders can as a rule be
kept under control if their haunts
are sprayed with 2 per cent, chlor-
dane (four teaspoons to a pint of
water). Chlordane may be bought
from your chemist under a number
of trade-names. The chlordane
sprays you used should have been
effective... .C.T.S.M.: Named after
an ironmonger named MacDonald
whose shop was at the corner of
George and Market Streets, Sydney.
He lived near the site of the present
MacDonaldtown railway - station.
. ...K.R.: As regards whether or
not it is advisable to site a
television-aerial under the roof of
a house near a hot-water service,
all the experts consulted agree that
several factors might tend to
influence reception. Seems prefer-
able to site it outside... .M.D.:
Ettalong is a seaside resort on the
western shores of the entrance to
Brisbane Water, 57 miles by road
from Sydney, and three miles from
Woy Woy, its nearest railway-
town. At one time Ettalong was
known as Bar Swamp, later as
Gittins Lagoon. The present settle-
ment dates from about 1907. The
population of Ettalong, as a
holiday-town, varies sharply accord-
ing to the season ; at the census of
1947 it was 1260. Subsequently it
was included in the shire of
Gosford... .B.l.: Woolly-aphis has
been almost completely eradicated
by the introduction in orchards of
the parasitic wasp Aphelinus mali,
the only reliable way of dealing
with the pest. Apply to the
Department of Agriculture in Bris-
bane for a colony of the wasps
to clean the trees and kill the
aphides. Spraying is almost useless,
as the main haunts of the insects
are below ground on the roots of
apple-trees, etc. If only a few trees
are affected, lightly brush the woolly
groups off the limbs and soak the
surrounding ground with a reliable
insecticide. This pest shouldn't be
confused with white wax, which
requires different treatment.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
< thinks necessary.
“Montmorency Mousetooth”:
Can you call at the editorial depart-
ment? ... .R.T.: Shuffles a10ng....
8.G.: The idea is slight, and all the
padding in the world won’t help.
. ...S.Y.S.: How exactly does a
zealot acclaim a price?... .R.W.H.:
Not up; but we are grateful for the
exquisite typing... .P.A.C.: It’s not
much use describing trees as
“sterner, austere, grave.” They are,
after all, vegetable... .A.P.T.:
Never end a poem with a visit to
St. Peter....A.R.: The fisherman’s
dog was eaten alive by crabs —
fair dinkum? 0.M.5.: It’s well
worked 0ut....E.D.: Perhaps the
best thing you can _do with
“Kangaroo Curry” is eat it....
L.J.D.: Poem on high price of hair-
cuts missed by a whisker
Boomerang: It hit its mark all right
and' now it’s whizzing back....
T.T.: Prose-poem too prosy. Andy
—as a geologist—pleasing but hard
to swallow J.M. (South Africa):
Only the Bantu make it different
from the standard farm-poem....
L.H.: It needs sorting-0ut....
J.M.F.: But how is anybody to guess
this is about the aboriginals?:—•
Blonde wren reminds uncomforted,
Garrulous crow, delight unsated,
Life, cruel cudgel unblunted,
Attacks conscience belated.
. ...D.N.: Concentrate on exact
description; “green fields” rather
than “an expanse of verdant land-
scape” ... .1.H.H..: It would pos-
sibly make a paragraph.... V.L.:
The acrobat bounced into the
basket... .T.T.: Yes, but things are
happening all the time. Try to
describe everyday happenings....
E.W.: Too glossy. Ajm for a
simpler treatment P.N.: They
all scream like Elvis Presley
W.C.: Roberta and Lucette would
be better off in a school-magazine.
P. 8.: Traces of promise... .S.A.:
Reminiscences need shortening.
At present your best bet would be
to approach a publisher—either that,
or cut by two-thirds and re-
submit ... .O.McD.: But have you
ever been to Broken Hill?


New Recordings
Brahms and Beethoven
A good double! Here they
are (or, rather, some of their
overtures) on Coronet KLC
536 ; title of the record is
Beethoven and Brahms Over-
tures, with Bruno Walter con-
ducting the New York Phil-
harmonic Orchestra.
Beethoven occupies one side,
Brahms the other ; the listener
has a good opportunity to
compare styles. There is Beet-
hoven’s Leonore Overture No.
3, one of the four overtures
written for his only opera,
“Fidelio”; a solemn chordal
ramble gives way to string-and-
flute dialogue, leading to a
series of emphatic climaxes.
Walter very properly accents
the vigorous bits, leaving the
smoother parts to take care of
themselves.
In the Egmont Overture
Beethoven seems to be shaking
a mailed fist —over tremolo
strings the woodwinds try to
establish a peaceful melody,
but they're interrupted periodi-
cally by two snarling chords.
Out of the Beethoven enclo-
sure into the Brahms pen.
First on the second side is the
“Tragic” Overture, Op. 81, and,
after the preceding items, one
is prompted to observe that
Brahms didn’t have Beet-
hoven’s intensely masculine
strength ; he is a figure of con-
templation rather than action.
Last on this side is the “Aca-
demic Festival” Overture, based
on students’ traditional songs
—all good-cheer, with never a
hint of tragedy.
The recording-engineers have
served Ludwig and Johannes
handsomely. And, given the
chance, neither composer could
quibble about the playing.
<£♦
Evensong at King’s
This Argo disk (RG. 99;
Evensong as sung in King's
College Chapel, Cambridge)
should appeal to every organist,
choirmaster, singing - teacher,
choir-singer and orchestral
conductor in Australia —and to
anyone interested in sheer ex-
cellence of choral singing. The
record is r lesson in how td
sing—and a most enjoyable
lesson it is.
The Chapel choir show how
English can be raised to its
highest power; and the.
Book of Psalms contains some
of the most supple and power-
ful English in the whole of the
Bible. So, over and above
being a church-service, this
presentation of Evensong be-
comes an art-form. There
is no reason why, if we admit
the artistry of, say, the con-
certo grossi of Handel, we
shouldn’t similarly appreciate
fine singing. You don’t have to
follow a score to follow sing-
ing. All that is needed is an
ear tuned to the rhythm and
the rise and fall of chanted
prose.
The service starts with an
introit (“O Praise the Lord”)
by Adrian Batten, one of the
galaxy of 17th.-century church-
musicians. Deceptive music,
from a technical viewpoint: it
looks easy, it sounds fine
every part weaving through
and through the texture like
gold thread woven through
brocade —but it’s extremely
tricky. No accompaniment,
either. But this doesn’t worry
the Chapel choir ; in fact, they
seem more at home without,
rather than with, accompani-
ment.
Then there are Sentences, a
section devoted to prayers ; two
highlights here are the choral
recitation of the Lord’s Prayer,
with each word weighed and
delivered on its merits in
utmost clarity, and the Re-
sponses, sung to William
Smith’s flowing setting. To this
listener, the focal-point of the
whole service is the group of
four psalms, Nos. 126-129.
Nothing labored or forced;
everything crystal-clear—you
can easily hear-what they’re
singing about. Treatment is
antiphonal, one side of the
choir (Decani) singing a verse,
the other side (Cantoris)
taking the next, with both sides
uniting at the Glorias. One
ought to mention, too, Hugh
McLean’s altogether sympa-
thetic assistance at the organ ;
in a building the size, of King’s
College Chapel—let no one be
deceived by that misunderstood
word “chapel”!—it’s indeed an
art to maintain exact timing
and balance with the choir.
Christopher Keyte reads an
Old Testament lesson superbly,
and the choir moves into Stan-
ford’s G Major setting of the
Magnificat, a lyrical bit of
work featuring a boy-soprano
soloist declaiming against (or
with) the full choir and a
rippling organ part almost
pianistic in its effect. The
Second Lesson follows, then
the Nunc Dimittis (Stanford
again). All dark colors here ;
a bass soloist (John Walker)
starts things going, and there
is a most interesting arrange-
ment of text: the first line,
“Lord now lettest Thou Thy
servant depart in peace,” is
repeated right at the end, just
before the Gloria. This em-
phasises the contemplative
nature of the words.
A little later on there is an
anthem, “My Beloved Spake,”
by Patrick Hadley ; a soaring
modern piece of writing, full
of contrasts and climaxes.
After the prayers and final
responses Evensong ends with
Francis Jackson’s Toccata in
B Minor, in which the organ,
necessarily trimmed to choir-
level throughout the service,
bursts into vigorous, brilliant
life.
One would like to learn
more from the jacket-note than
biographical details of the com-
posers represented—something,
for instance, about the history
of the Chapel, and how the
choir-members are selected.
And surely the note might have
mentioned the number of
singers. One seems to remem-
ber there are 18.
The record is an English
product, but has been made in
Australia for the Argo peopie
by Scala Record Co., Lane
Cove, Sydney,, N.S.W.
THE HOLLIDAYS
"I've only got to see Anne Hathaway's cottage and I've seen EVERYTHING.”
MIDDY.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
The appearance of U.S. ships in the
Harbor and the uniforms of their sailors
around the city presaged the Coral Sea
celebrations, which are highlighted by
the visit of General L. S. Kuter, Com-
mander-in-Chief of the U.S. Pacific Air
Force, and Mrs. Kuter. A reception for
them by the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs. F. W. Thomas)
Will be held at the Town Hall at the
conclusion of the commemoration-march
on Thursday, and a gay finale to the week
will be the dinner-ball at St. Kilda Palais
on Friday. During their stay in Mel-
bourne General and Mrs. Kuter will be
the guests of the Governor and Lady
Brooks.
kb kb V
\
It was pleasing to learn that the new
Red Cross blood-bank hall is named the
Lucy Bryce, in honor of the woman who
pioneered this blood-transfusion service
in Australia. A large William Dargie
painting of Dr. Bryce hangs in the
hall of the Flinders Street building,
which will be officially opened by
the Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, on
Friday, May 8. Among the 100 girls
working at the bank will be medical- and
science-graduates, nursing-sisters, labora-.
tory-workers clerical staff and voluntary
helpers. Their special recreation-room is
very pleasing, with its walls of midnight-
blue and tiles of strawberry-pink, white
and grey. Sunshine-yellow walls, with
gay flower-study paintings, give the same
color-lilt to the lunch-room. Of special
service to blood-donors who are parents
is the creche on the ground-floor, where
young children can be left temporarily in
the care of trained staff.
☆☆ ' ☆
Does the wardrobe-mistress wave a
magic wand and re-create the skirt of the
lovely evening-dress which comedian Will
Mahoney slashes with scissors each night
on stage, or just what is done to provide
the needed supply? This was the question
which shared top place in after-show
discussions when “The Diamond Horse-
shoe ’ had its really glamorous premiere
at the Tivoli last week. Another popular
topic with women theatregoers was the
hooped crinoline worn by Anny Berryer,
which is so heavy that it has to be lifted’
on and off the singer with block-and-
tackle. Lavish use of tulle, feathers,
sparkling trimming and beaded-fringe
made the production one of the most
colorful staged at the Tiv.
In the first-night audience were Mrs.
Wallace Mitchell, Mrs. Royden Honey-
man (her small theatre-hat was made of
rose-trimmed fur and lace), Miss D.
Kaufman (convalescent after a serious
iliness) and her sister Mrs. P. Briggs, and
Miss Evie Hayes (in private life Mrs.
Will Mahoney); her vivid gown was of
lipstick-pink. A large party of guests
sat with Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Cooper.
Mrs. Ross Shelmerdine is busy with
arrangements for the Preview of Aus-
traliana Festival, which will be held at
Wilson Hall on May 11 to aid the Uni-
versity building-fund. Plans for the
evening will include a concert featuring
bush-ballads, shearing-songs and inciden-
tal music from “Lola Montez.”
Despite the claims of a young family,
Mrs. Shelmerdine gives a great deal of
her time to good causes. She is a very
active member of the Royal Melbourne
Hospital Whernside Auxiliary, and she
worked hard on the executive of the
Cancer Campaign. Both she and her
husband are keen gardeners, of which
fact their Toorak home gives delightful
proof. Photo by John Warlow.
The buried city of Atlantis was a
decoration-theme worked on with good
results by members of the Genassano
Association at their annual ball. A back-
drop of tulle in several shades of blue,
and fish of all shapes and sizes, with
coral, seaweed and shells, gave a delight-
ful underwater effect. Association presi-
dent Mrs. Douglas Hemingway, assisted
by her husband, greeted more than 800
guests ; later they received a large group
of debutantes. The official party in-
cluded Mr. and Mrs. J. Maloney, Dr. and
Mrs. George Morrison, Mr. and Mrs.
J. Minogue, Mr. and Mrs. G. O. Reid, and
representatives of various associated con-
vents and schools.
* ☆ ☆
A visit to the Ideal Home Show
would possibly be more enjoyed by the
newly-engaged than their elders; they
would have more opportunity of incor-
porating all the latest trends in furnish-
ings and fittings into their homes. De-
signers appear to have made a serious
study of housekeeping, with the result
that labor-saving equipment of the com-
pact kind has been given greater
emphasis. Amongst such fitments one
could choose triangle-shaped taps (to
protect soft hands as well as facilitate
turnings on and off), improved bathroom
design, cupboard-refrigerators, and a host
of the latest kitchen-fittings. The show
was opened by the Governor, who, with
Lady Brooks, tried-out various lounge-
suites, finally relaxing, with smiles, on a
divan of Colonial-design.
* ☆ ☆
If winter comes (though it has been
so mild, thoughts of it are far away) the
reassurance of a colorful spring and
summer to follow was given by a fashion-
parade of frocks and ensembles by
Adelyn at the Hotel Australia. Roses,
roses and still more roses were lavishly
scattered. They trimmed waistlines, neck-
lines and even hemlines, and rioted over
materials. If the cognac-colored one that
centred interest on the bodice of an
Empire-line frock was of a variety still
unknown to local growers, the effect was
none-the-less satisfying to the artistic-
minded.
* * *
Fish was the theme of decorations at
the St. Kilda home of Lieut.-General
and Mrs. E. K. Smart for a progressive
dinner to aid the University building-
fund. Pausing to enjoy drinks with their
fish-course, guests then “progressed” to
a chicken-dinner given by Sir George and
Lady Paton at their home at the Uni-
versity. Sweets and coffee were served
at Mr. and Mrs. Angus Jones’s Toorak
home in soft candlelight. More than 60
guests made the journey.
# V V
Pictures of little Marie-Pierre, aged
seven, and her nine-year-old brother Jean-
Marc brought a happy note of children
and springtime in Paris into the conversa-
tion when their parents, visiting organist
Pierre Cochereau and his wife, were
guests-of-honor, with A.B.C. conductor
Kurt Woess, at a reception hostessed at
Majella by Mrs. Guy Bakewell, 0.8. E.,
and fellow-members of the Victorian
Symphony Orchestra Subscribers’ com-
mittee. Among those able to join in
with their own happy memories of the
city were Mr. and Mrs. Dennison Deasey
(she was French-born) and Miss L. Gay
(whose mother is president of the Alliance
Fran9aise).
The pictures of the children were taken
in the garden of their home in Paris after
their parents had left on their concert-
tour of Australia. M. Cochereau, who is
organist of Notre Dame Cathedral, rarely
plays from a score, relying on memory for
most of the great works written for organ
in the past 500 years. His first appear-
ance as soloist with the orchestra at Mel-
bourne Town Hall on Saturday night
was enthusiastically hailed by a packed
audience.


SYDNEY
It was Coral Sea Week in Sydney, its
friendliness nothing dimmed by remarks
overseas by Lord Montgomery on the
one hand and General MacArthur (in
his book) on the other. Certainly when
the U.S.S. Bremerton arrived with over
1000 enlisted men, no Sydney girls in gay
floral dresses surged down to the wharf
as usual to meet them, but this was not
lack of goodwill ; rather, so it is said,
a precaution against University students,
whose Commem. Week pranks are some-
times embarrassing. (The students seem
to be absorbed at the moment, however,
in breaking the Manchester record of
the pram-pushing marathon. They were
to be seen pushing their pram at various
spots round the city all through the
week.)
The official guests for Coral Sea Week,
General Laurence S. Kuter, Commander-
in-Chief, Pacific Air Forces, and Mrs.
Kuter, were overwhelmed with welcomes.
On arrival they were whisked-off to a
State reception at the Australia, at which
the Premier was assisted in welcoming
by his daughter Margaret. They then
went on to a party at Prince’s, arranged
by the newly-formed junior branch of
the Australian-American Association,
hosts being Mr. and Mrs. David Gardiner
and Constance Russell. Then at night
there was the Coral Sea Ball at the Troca-
dero, where a ceiling of blue-and-white
gauze was star-and-aeroplane-spangled
and tropical shrubs decorated the centre
of the room. Hosts here were Mr. and
Mrs. Keith Yorston and Mr. and Mrs.
lan Jacoby.
V V Q
The milliners must have been happy
about the Country Women’s Associa-
tion’s four-day conference in Sydney
during the week, when 2000 delegates and
guests, every one of them loyal to the
chapeau, assembled at the opening in
the Town Hall. This added to the well-
dressed look of the gathering and was
in keeping with the dignity of an associa-
tion which, after 37 years’ existence, has
a membership of 28,508 and assets that
total nearly £1 million, an increase for
the year of £53,441.
After the association’s patron, Lady
Woodward, had opened the conference,
the retiring State president, Mrs. J. A.
Lander, presented an impressive report
of activities. She is to be succeeded in
this office by Mrs. Jeff Bate (formerly
Mrs.. Thelma Kirkby). Missed at the
opening ceremony was-the late Sir Charles
Lloyd Jones, who had always referred
to himself as their “steady.” He was
represented, however, by his son Charles,
who presented the Challenge Cup,
awarded for the branch with the greatest
membership-increase over a two-year
period. It went to the Kiacatoo branch
(increase of membership from 11 to 47),
and was accepted on its behalf by dele-
gate Mrs.-J. H. Watson (Condobolin).
☆ ☆ ☆
An all-day party at a Mountains-home
was given by the friends of David Slade
to celebrate his receiving his Ph.D. at
Sydney University. David was one of
Prof. Messel’s first students, and has been
a student from the Australian Atomic
Commission. The main organisers of
the party were Bob Armstrong (Wollon-
gong), Darrel Freeman (Hunter’s Hill),
Kay Wentworth (Leadyille), Xanthe
Small (Centennial Park), Rick North
(Bondi) and Judy Cunningham (East-
wood). Over 100 guests hied-up to the
Leura home of Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Slade
on Sunday, and in this ideal setting, right
on the edge of the valley with a magni-
ficent view of the falls, prepared their
barbecue-lunch for a party that was
delightful and different.
Margaret Barrett is president of the
Young Twenties committee which is
arranging the Red and White Centenary
Ball at Prince's on Friday next, May 8,
in aid of Red Cross. Guests-of-honor
will be the Consul-General for Denmark,
Mr. F. H. Hergel (he is Dean of the
Consular Corps), and Mrs. Hergel. A
special feature of the decor, which will
be all in red and white, will be a huge
100th-birthday cake, to celebrate the
centenary of Red Cross this year. Stars
from “Grab Me a Gondola’ will cut
the cake, and at midnight champagne
will be served to every guest. Altogether
it promises to be a very colorful ball and,
with its youthful and enthusiastic com-
mittee, very lively.
A gay atmosphere marked the open-
ing -night of the Tivoli’s new show,
“Tropical Holiday,” first created by the
lavish decorations in the foyer and then
by the gift to every first-nighter of a
cellophane package of a pineapple and
bananas. Everyone loves an unexpected
present, so everyone came in wearing a
smile. Mrs. David Martin entertained
in her party Mr. and Mrs. John Lemon,
and her daughter-in-law, Mrs. Martin,
jnr., who looked charming in a black-
velvet theatre-coat.
The following night another happy
show, “Grab Me a Gondola,” opened
at the Empire to a full house, very gay
and lively. It is a particularly colorful
show, a satire on show-business, publicity-
stunts, etc., but it is anything but sour,
being so lighthearted and carefree. Sir
Frank and Lady Tait were present at the
opening night, which was the Australian
premiere of this English musical. It was
a pleasantly, rather than richly dressed
audience, most of the interval-limelight
going to Sabrina (who had also been at
the Tivoli opening), all swathed in white-
fox and wearing a pearl coronet on her
piled-up hair.
❖☆ ☆ ■
Parties that aided good causes during
the week included a luncheon arranged
by the Forget-Me-Not committee for the
Crippled Children. Held at the Bellevue
Hill home of the Trade Commissioner for
Pakistan, Mr. F. H. Choudhury, its
hostesses were Mrs. Sydney Lennon and
the Begum Choudhury. After the
luncheon, guests, who included Mrs.
Yuval (wife of the Minister for Israel),
Mrs. K. W. Coad (wife of the Trade Com-
missioner for N.Z.), Lady McLaren and
Mrs. E. H. Rich (Brisbane), saw a fashion-
parade of furs compered by Mrs. Max
Cornelius.
On the following day Lady Barwick,
who is a member of the Northern
Districts Auxiliary assisting the N.S.W.
Society for Crippled Children, was hostess
at an afternoon-party at her Beecroft
home, and was assisted in receiving the
guests by the president of the auxiliary,
Miss J. Fitzhardinge.
# # #
Also taking advantage of the clear,
sunny weather was a party of 30 who
motored down to Penfold’s new winery
at Tempe, inspected the new plant, and'
took part in a wine-tasting presided over
by Mr. Douglas Lamb. Mr. and Mrs.
Hugh Hunt (who will be returning to
England shortly) were of the party, which
was arranged by Miss Margaret Gillespie
in aid of the Elizabethan Theatre Trust.
V V V
Have you bought your scort yet? No,
not a misprint. It is a combination skirt
and shorts which is just the thing this
season, and was seen, among many other
glamorous garments, by delegates to the
C.W.A. conference at the “Wool and
Glamor” parade organised by the Aus-
tralian Wool Bureau at Mark Foy’s
Empress Ballroom on Thursday night.
Featured at the parade was an evening-
skirt in fine wool, with a top made of
hundreds of fine wool medallions which
had been crocheted by the Metropolitan
Group president of the C.W.A., Mrs.
L. A. Buckley, and two other Sydney
members who had worked night and day
to complete the number needed. The
medallions were flown to Melbourne and
there made up into the pretty dress seen
at the parade.


romance of this story —indeed it is the
theme of her book —and one which is
a little embarrassing until one realises
how very young she was at the time.
It is a story cf childhood companion-
ship. then rare, chaste but intimate
meetings in mansions in England,
castles in Germany, palaces in India
and the curious “manor-house” in
Sydney ... all over the world in the
lavish and exotic settings that were
provided for Krishnamurti and his
brother by the devotees of the sect,
mostly wealthy old ladies. One of the
most arent devotees, though at that
time by no means elderly, was of
course Lady Emily Luytens, the
author’s mother, who took the young
Indians under her wing in England
after Annie Besant had “recognised”
Krishnamurti as the vehicle who would
be the next incarnation of “the Lord
Maitreya.”
Mary Luytens does not say a great
deal about Annie Besant, except that
she was queenly and kindly—“her hair
was short, white and curly, and she
always wore a white sari” —but she
paints in liberal detail the portrait of
“Bishop” Leadbeater, the leader of the
community in Sydney, and the extra-
ordinary life she and her mother and
sister led in his crowded “manor-
house” at Mosman with its walls lined
with beaten copper.
One of the most notable inmates
there was Leadbeater’s cat, “a large
tortoiseshell.. . .the one creature at the
Manor whom Brother treated with true
respect. It was said to be in its last
incarnation in the animal kingdom, and
already it had a crafty, wicked, human
knowingness.” Another was a boy who
was beloved by a rock in National
Park which used to “reach out all its
life at one end” in an effort to embrace
him. and loved him to sit on it. And
yet another was a boy who, in medita-
tion. used to project a tube, “rather like
a canvas fire-escape,” down to Mosman
Bay. “and the water-spirits would come
running up it and dance about the
room.”
Leadbeater, on his first appearance,
“came prancing down the wharf like
a great lion, hatless and in a long
purple cloak.” His personality “shocked
and braced” the author and his sharp
teeth reminded her of a vampire: “Now
that l had met him I could easily be-
lieve the chamber-pot story, and all the
other strange tales I had heard about
him, too. but not the accusation of
immorality. He looked far too healthy
and happy to be abnormal.” The
Bishop, or Brother, as he was alterna-
tively called, certainly ruled the com-
munal breakfast-table like a lion,
glaring if anyone spoke too loud or
dropped a spoon. In midnight medita-
tions he took the author and various
other inmates to Tibet—on the astral
plane—to meet “Koot Hoomi” and
other mysterious Masters; he spoke to
them of the fairies; and on one occa-
sion he borrowed Miss Luytens’s
diamond-brooch, “to put joyousness
into it,” and a couple of days later
returned it to her “sparkling deliciously
as no jeweller had ever made it
sparkle.”
Intriguing as these memories are,
they have something of the desolation
of all relics, and the most appealing
parts of the book are the author’s
recollections of her childhood and.
particularly, the wistful portrait of her
father. Sir Edwin Luytens, the archi-
tect of Delhi, who took a somewhat
dim view of his wife’s theosophical
activities and retreated into a private
world of puns, architecture and after-
dinner naps. He used to have his
children into the drawing-room after
lunch on Sundays and would play a
game of who could go to sleep first,
which he always won; and once when
he and Lady Luytens set out from
Marseilles for India he cabled his
daughters, “Pa and Ma sails.”
Pudovkin on Filmcratt
V. I. Pudovkin was a great primitive
of the cinema; so great that one of his
silent films—“ Mother” (1926). from the
Gorki novel—was judged at last year’s
Brussels Fair to be among the ten best
films, of all time.
Film Technique and Film Acting
(Vision; Mayflower) is a revised and
enlarged memorial edition of Pudov-
kin’s two theoretical books on filmcraft.
Though the first of these was written
before sound-film came in, and the
second not long after, they still make
fascinating reading. Pudovkin was not
a very original thinker, but his mind
was shrewd and clear. He selected
the best ideas about film-making that
were current in his day —scraps of
Griffith and Eisenstein on direction,
strips of Stanislavsky on acting-
ordered them and set them out clearly
and thoroughly, always with an eye to
fundamentals and practice.
Of course many of these ideas now
seem pretty obvious. But precisely
because Pudovkin was not a subtle
theorist and always had to relate ideas
.to practical, on-the-spot problems of
film-making, his explanations of even
the simplest things are fresh and in-
teresting. The book is everywhere
enlivened with stories about the
pioneering of film art, some of which
seem to contain the whole essence
of it:—
Kuleshov and I made an interesting
experiment. We took several close-
ups of [a] well-known actor....
close-ups which were static and did
not express any feeling at a 11....
We joined these close-ups, which
were all similar, with other bits of
film in three different combina-
tions. In the first the close-up was
immediately followed by a shot of a
plate of soup standing on a table. . ..
In the second combination the face
.... was joined to shots of a coffin
in which lay a dead woman. In the
third the close-up was followed by a
shot of a little girl playing with a
funny toy bear. When we showed the
three combinations to an audience
which had not been let into the secret
the result was terrific. The public
raved about the acting of the artist.
They pointed out the heavy pensive-
ness of his mood over the forgotten
soup, were touched and moved by
the deep sorrow with which he
looked on the dead woman, and
admired the light, happy smile with
which he surveyed thf girl at play.
But we knew that in all three cases
the face was exactly the same.
Which tells volumes about the art
of film-editing.
Ivor Montague, the translator,
remarks in a preface that the contents
of these books “are the grammar and
syntax on which all present-day film
thinking and film working are in-
directly founded.” Nothing could be
truer. Although the books are primarily
a sort of gospel of the great early period
of the Russian cinema, they give you
here and there the first glimmerings of
ideas that were later developed by many
different schools of directing. The
chapters on working with non-actors,
for example, are heavy with intima-
tions of Italian neo-realism.
Even now it could be argued that
anyone who followed Pudovkin’s
principles, ignoring most of the techni-
cal advances of the past thirty years,
would still make good pictures.
MERIDIANS
(To J. McK.)
For whole centuries there may be tracts
Of ocean never approached, only
Netted by meridians. In these lonely
Vast nesses such netting protects
Them from disintegration into space.
They were, and are, will always be some
place
In the ocean where a ship might pass
Or a plane plummet, and may be found
Entangled in the net. As the years pass,
Sometime we’ll find in the net a rock, a
fragment of ground
Thrust out of the sea by submarine
volcano.
It is the net will hold it in its place :
The net we’ve cast around —a flimsy lace
To hold five continents; yet, strong
enough.
Q.
JOHN BLIGHT.


A Cocteau Cocktail
Jean Cocteau says he wrote The
Eagle Has Two Heads to give the
contemporary theatre a shot of violence
and vitality; and maybe he has suc-
ceeded. At any rate, the “adaptation”
by Ronald Duncan, published by
Vision, has reached its third printing;
so people are reading it. It is lively
and interesting to read and may play
the same way.
True, the plot is a bit corny. It is
one that Christopher Fry has used;
Shaw was before him with “The
Chocolate Soldier”; and it was
thoroughly shopworn long before that:
a fugitive, in one of those Ruritanian
countries of Central Europe, steps
through the window in an aristocratic
mansion and falls in love with, or is
protected by, the mistress or daughter
of the house . . . with hair’s-breadth
escapes and hiding in barrels and
beds.
In this case the situation is founded
vaguely on fact, and the fugitive, who
is a young poet who wants to assassi-
nate the queen, climbs through the
palace window and they fall in love.
He has a startling resemblance to the
queen’s dead husband, in mourning for
whom she has shut herself away from
life and her subjects much as Queen
Victoria did; and. at first, longing for
death, she protects him merely in the
hope that he will go ahead with the
assassination; but then when, quite
unlike Queen Victoria, she falls in love
with him, she has to save him from
the machinations of the chief-of-police.
An absurd blurb tells us that the
assassin represents “the youthful Eros,”
who will redeem the queen from her
fixation on the “father-figure” of her
dead husband by becoming “a revo-
lutionary son” to her —all this, like
parts of the play itself, seems to be
influenced by the Freudian theories on
“Hamlet.” Cocteau himself hopes that
the play will rank with the great Greek
tragedies.
But, totally unconvincing in the
love-story, though it is nicely argued, it
remains, as Cocteau fears, essentially
a melodrama, redeemed by some of
the excellent theatrical moments it
provides the assassin climbing
through the window precisely at the
moment when the queen is supposed to
be invoking the ghost of the dead king;
the moment when the queen seems to
be going to shoot her lover, but fires
at a target instead; and the ingenious
finale, when, knowing they are both
trapped, the queen goads the youth into
assassinating her after all. There are,
too, good portraits of such minor
characters as the queen’s reading-
woman and the chief-of-police, both
in the pay of her enemies.
Reviewed Briefly
Heinemann have published in one
volume The Plays of William Douglas
Home: “Now Barabbas,” “The Thistle
and the Rose,” “The Reluctant
Debutante” and “Bad Samaritan.” In
a pleasant and amusing foreword Home
says he wrote the bulk of “Now
Barabbas” (“a good play,” as he
assesses it) in six days, completed it in
ten and subsequently, except for cut-
ting one short scene, never altered a
line of it. The first three scenes of
“The Reluctant Debutante” took
“three mornings in bed”; the last scene
took a year until, “acting on a brilliant
suggestion of my wife’s, I finished it.”
* * * *
The Watercress Girl: H. E. Bates
(Michael Joseph). Short-stories of
old-time rural England and people
like this: “ ‘How’s Nance and Granny
Houghton?’ Sar’ Ann said, and his
grandfather said they were fair-to-mid
and suddenly there was great talk of
relatives, of grown-ups, of people he
did not know, of Charley and a man
he thought was named Uncle Fuggles
and Cathy and Aunt Em and Maude
Rose and two people called Liz and
Herbert from Bank Top.” If you like
this kind of sketch, in which the world
and its complexities are seen, as the
blurb has it, “with crystalline purity
through the eyes of children,” all
thirteen stories will please you. If not,
the longest of them, “A Great Day for
Bonzo,” will suffice. By any standard
it is a masterpiece.
The Swan: the Story of Anna Pav-
lova: Helen May (Nelson). One of a
series of “Picture Biographies” for
children, this is outstanding for the
captivating illustrations in color and
black-and-white by Peggy Fortnum.
The brief biography of Pavlova is also
admirable, written with much more
feeling than is usual in this kind of
book.
* * 4* *
The Sleepwalkers: Arthur Koestler
(Hutchinson). On one level this is an
attempt to trace, from the Babylonians
to Newton, the ever-changing relation-
ship between science and religion (a
vast enough subject by itself). On
another level, and at much greater
length, it is an inquiry into “the
psychological process of discovery.”
This is pursued in long and vivid
studies of Copernicus. Kepler, Brahe
and Galileo, all of whom are taken
down from their pedestals, put back
into their ages and revealed as men
sharing in and struggling under the
philosophical misconceptions and pre-
judices of their times. It is a “personal
and speculative” study intended to
clear some ground for an understand-
ing of how the present “state of cold
war” developed between science and
the humanities. Such an understanding,
Koestler hopes, might help in deciding
whether man is going to “destroy him-
self or take off for the stars.”
THE AUTHORITY
“I have read your poems with interest ..
His comment fell
Like a spear, barb-tipped,
Leaving him, the dealer in sentences, hale,
Secure and beyond the pale.
Hard to tell
What continents of words
Made up his empire;
Or when last he stepped
Balm-tongued and filled with fire
Into the lists.
Most sure, he did not come unscathed
away,
For now and then he shows his scars,
they say.
So the merciful mists
Connubially enfolded him.
Turning from the tongues that spoke
Judgement, he became judge.
Forsaking the songs that broke
The eggshell of the world,
He formed another.
And now as the waiting nine
Bowed sacred heads, making no sign,
He the Authority penned his most telling
line :
“I have read your poems with interest. ..”
S.A.
PAUL HAEFFNER.
A GLACIER
A glacier is an escalator
taking thousands of years
to bring a gift of stones
from heaven to earth.
A glacier is a lava-flow
of molten ice coming to an abrupt halt
in emerald cliffs in a field of stones
and parleying the stones with a braided
stream.
A glacier is a calloused skin
seen through a peering glass, lit
with a bullseye sun, the crests
blinding, the terrible caves purest cobalt.
A glacier is an enormous white-winged
silence remorselessly breaking ,
the backbone of a mountain that cracks
with the sound of distant echoing rifle-
shots.
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.


When all is said and done
. * «
YOU
CO
BEST
WITH
/
M
}
THE WORLD’S BEST
FUEL IMPROVER
IP
SUPER
JUPEB
cm
STANDARD
BP
CQR
BP SUPER & C'QM THE ONLY PETROLS CONTAINING BENZOL
AT ALL BP/C.O.R SERVICE STATIONS
Make sure you get the
improved power and
performance which only
Benzol gives. Benzol
is available only in BF
Super and C.O.R petrols,
at BP/C.O.R service
stations everywhere,
BP AUSTRALIA LIMITED,
formerly The Commonwealth
Oil Refineries Limited
1/C7-33
