

The Bulletin
The Future of the Labor Party
Wednesday, October 21, 1959
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper,
"Hey, Joe! Can you see the rest of this serial up there?"


BE A
SUCCESSFUL
WRITER!
If YOU have the urge to Write and a love for
expressing yourself in words, you can learn to
write Successful Short Stories, Articles, Written
Sketches, Radio Talks, Pars., Verse, etc.
‘•During the past six months my Acceptances
have returned me over £200.”
“I am pleased to report further Successes since
Les. 10. This makes £53 in hand with more
to come.”
”1 list hereunder my Acceptances to the amount
of £lO6/10/9.”
“My earnings from my Writing total almost
£70.”
‘•During the Course I sold five Stories, which
more than paid for my fees.”
Stotts Correspondence tolieqe
159 Flinders Fane, Melbourne; 149 Castle-
reagh St., Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Bris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 254 Murray
St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT'S: Please send me. without any
obligation, vour Prospeetus. and full par
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS ..:
AGE (5.3. 2059)
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
QUEENSLAND WRITERS
Cecil Hadgraft, who wrote about
Queensland writers for “The Bulletin’s”
recent Queensland Centenary issue,
writes more extensively on the same
theme in a book published by the
University of Queensland Press for the
centenary, Queensland and Its Writers.
It is an admirable little book, lucid,
expert and entertaining, and if one is
disposed to find fault with it here and
there, that is only because, even on a
centennial occasion, criticism is criti-
cism, and critics, of all people, must
expect to be criticised.
It must be freely admitted that,
despite the temptations of the occa-
sion, Hadgraft never writes so ful-
somely about his authors as, say,
E. W. H. Fowles, M.A., LL.B., “author
of ‘The Workers’ Compensation Act of
1905,’ ” whose introduction to Alfred
Midgley’s poems in 1908 claimed that
“Thoughts at the Graveside” “might
have been written by Young, or Mont-
gomery, or Coleridge”—this is one of
the amusing pieces of research that
enliven Hadgraft’s survey—but he has,
all the same, a dangerous tendency
towards superlatives.
It hardly seems possible, for instance,
after A. G. Stephens’s memorable
drubbing, which was reprinted in “The
Bulletin’s” Queensland issue, to des-
cribe Brunton Stephens’s “Convict
Once” as his “greatest” poem; it seems,
according to A. G. Stephens, whom
Hadgraft respects, to have been a great
deal of nonsense. And then he is
alarming even on Brunton Stephens’s
comic verse (which A. G. Stephens
liked rather better than this reviewer
does) and of which Hadgraft says, “As
a comic poet Stephens is supreme. He
has written more comic poems and
better comic poems than any other
Australian poet.” Is this even mathe-
matically correct? And if it is, which
doesn’t seem likely, how do you decide
that Brunton Stephens’s comic poems
are “better” than C. J. Dennis’s,
W. T. Goodge’s, “Dryblower”
Murphy’s, Andre Hayward’s, John
Farrell’s or “Banjo” Paterson’s?
It is almost impossible to prove these
large claims, and there is no need to
make them. Hadgraft merely em-
barrasses the reader —and, one would
imagine, the poet herself —when, in
the same use of the superlative, he
claims that Judith Wright’s poem
“Woman to Man” is “probably the
greatest of Australian lyrics.” It is,
indeed, a profoundly beautiful poem;
but how do you prove that it is
“greater” than, say, Shaw Neilson’s
“The Orange Tree”? Each poem, in
its own way, has great beauty; so, in
another way and another mood, has
Hugh McCrae’s “Colombine”: it is not
really possible—and it is a pity—to
start such poems competing against
each other. As Hadgraft more wisely
goes on to imply, it is the number of
occasions when Judith Wright has
reached a particular kind of excellence
that gives her her special place.
But, apart from these and a few other
occasions where he slips into the
superlative or into the overestimation
of a few books so new that it is hard
to see them in perspective, on the whole
there is little need to question Had-
graft’s critical judgment. He is a bit
hard on Steele Rudd; he could have
been warmer on John Blight: and that
is about all this reviewer noted.
On the question of omissions, which
inevitably arises when such surveys
are written, it always seem unfair and
even impertinent for the reviewer, when
the author is the real expert and has
done all the labor of research, to come
along afterwards and point-out one or
two names which appear to have been
overlooked. However, just for the
record, one might mention that Queens-
land would have some claim to Jack
and Philip Lindsay (not that they
touched the Queensland scene much,
except in their autobiographies); that
Peter Airey (“P. Luftig”) could have
got a mention among the bush-
balladists; that some of Frederick T.
Macartney’s early poems of the Barrier
Reef are worth looking at; and,
chiefly, that by limiting himself to
poetiy and fiction, Hadgraft has cut
himself off from quite a rich, and
sometimes a very important field, of
history, biography and travel by
Queensland writers. It seems to be an
illusion of the twentieth century that
the most infinitesimal of poetasters and
the worst of novelists are “creative,”
whereas a great biographer is not. But
is not, say, Boswell’s life of Johnson
in every way a more important work of
art than Johnson’s “Rasselas”?
But to come to what is in the book,
instead of what is left out, there are
not only the minor figures, sometimes
amusing, sometimes pathetic and
always interesting—such as Vowles, the
first native-born Queensland poet, who
objected to mopokes; or the soldier-
poet who was converted to Islam; or
Colin Munro, who, in excruciating
polysyllables, wrote the first Queens-
land novel (Hadgraft deserves a medal
for having read it) —but also a most
impressive array of writers of genuine
and sometimes outstanding quality.
Altogether it makes an excellent book
for its occasion; and an invaluable one
for the student of Australian literature.
POETRY
Poetry is fighting a delaying action
in a battle one knows is already lost.
Poetry is sneaking time out to create
something useless furtively, covering
oneself with an alibi, aware
that the useless is the only useful.
Poetry is creating what no one needs
or buys or reads, aware
that when all buying and selling cease
poetry is the most precious of all com-
modities.
Poetry is assuming that every handful
of dirt,
chunk of rock or shovelful of gravel
has a bright speck of worth somewhere
in it,
and that even flecks of mica are not
useless
if they are pretty and keep you
scratching.
Poetry is enjoying the fragrance
of a flower one’s vainly reaching for
and the pleasant sensation of mud
at the same time
trickling through one’s bare toes.
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.
Birds and Islands
As the title makes clear enough,
Robert Wilson’s Bird Islands of New
Zealand (Whitcombe and Tombs,
Ltd.) is about two fascinating sub-
jects, birds and islands; but no title,
however exact, can indicate the full
(Continued on page 58)


For a truly smart home . . . and
a lower building estimate... use
the world’s strongest
roofing material
Your new house can be the showplace of the street
and yet be the lowest-cost home in the street!
A Lysaght roof makes all the difference, lending itself
readily to the most advanced modern designs, yet giving
you worth-while savings compared with competitive
materials.
Completely fire-proof . . . absolutely unbreakable
because Lysaght Red Orb is made especially hard for
roofing purposes. So easy to care for, that you can
virtually forget about maintenance problems.
Decide now to investigate the facts and figures on the
beautiful, practical, economical Lysaght roof!
Galvanized
Corrugated
Steel Sheet.
Prepainted
Galvanized
Corrugated
Steel Sheet.
Flat Galvanized
Steel Sheet.
Galvanized
; P : i : l2sBl
jg|p . WBm BSii
Free —
low cost home
plans booklet!
Send today for this helpful new
series of practical, low-cost
home plans, especially designed
to suit Australian conditions.
GI6SXC
HOME
PLANS
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., I
Port Line Building, 50 Young Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, free and post free, your new set of low cost home
plans.
NAME -
ADDRESS
STATE.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, October 21, 1959
Vol. 80—No. 4158 s
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
. Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 436-440 King William St.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
NEW COMMONWEALTH
immediately on top of the
establishment of a British Gov-
ernment in office for the next five
years, and following the stabilisation
of sterling and the British economy,
the Commonwealth Parliamentary
Conference at Canberra, for which the
delegates are gathering, might easily
be a turning-point in the history of the
British Commonwealth.
The period of transition from an
imperial rule to mutual association in
a comity of English-speaking nations
is nearly over. A few backward
colonies, still unripe for management
of their affairs, remain to achieve
independence. And there are still
racial problems to solve in some of the
African colonies and older Dominions
where two civilisations, white and
black, have developed side-by-side.
It is unique in history that the
change has been brought about with
so little violence and with such good-
will and understanding on the part of
the United Kingdom, the mother-
country of Western civilisation, though
it has been easier because the
“imperial” rule, despite the use of the
word with horrible connotations
attached by the Communists and their
hypnotised parlor-pink followers, was
so benign and generally interested.
The deeding of freedom to many of the
colonies has actually been a relief to
the British taxpayers and to the British
Government.
The change in status of the various
parts of the old Empire produced less
violence than the internal aftermaths
under the new autonomous Govern-
ments in many cases. And it has been
notable that most of these latter which
are not based on an immigrant Euro-
pean population seem to feel that it is
entirely in their interests to keep-up
the closest association with the United
Kingdom. They feel actually injured
if the U.K. does not continue to give
them the services in the way of
financial and technological support
which it used to give them a!s colonies,
when they supposedly were the “slaves
of imperialism.”
'T'HE lists of university-passes and
admissions to the Bar. medicine
and the professions in England (and
increasingly in Australia) teem with
Asian and African names. The lists
of the Inns of Court sometimes seem
to have more passes by Asian, African
and West Indian students than by
indigenous British. It is significant
that almost every leader of the
separation-movements, and every head
or dominant Minister and Opposition-
leader in the new world of former
colonies which have. achieved “free-
dom,” is a product of either British
universities or British-organised and
-named scholastic institutions in their
own country. A good many of them
speak English far better than the
average Australian politician.
The only exceptions to the rule are
the heads of the four great white-
ruled _ former Dominions, which have
advanced so far along the way of their
own development that they have their
own great schools and universities.
It is fitting that Australia should be
the venue of the association’s first
meeting to take place after the new
Commonwealth has really become
complete.
It remains for history to discover
how much the conception of the
Commonwealth of British nations owes
to the thinking of the early Australian
pioneers of responsible Government,
from Wentworth and Parkes and
James Macarthur to Deakin. Barton,
Griffith and their likes.
The part which Australians have
played, and the common linkage
which this has produced through their
associations with representatives of
other parts of the Commonwealth in
constructing the Constitutions of some
of the new nations, is more obvious
to those which benefited—Sir William
McKell. an Australian-born Governor-
General. for example, was one of the
architects of the Constitution of the
Malayan Federation, and the land-
laws of Malaya were stabilised out of
a whirling nebula of confusion by a
commission headed by Queensland’s
great expert in the land-laws, W. L.
Payne, supported by a Briton with
African experience and an Indian
administrator.
The atmosphere is one in which,
except in relation to such countries as
South Africa, there are no basic differ-
ences in either ultimate principles or
ideals.
There is no trend towards Commun-
ism and dictatorship, and where it has
manifested itself it usually has been
vomited-out in short order, as in
India, where the honeymoon with
Moscow and the experiment in Kerala
have withered quickly into disillusion.
The trends generally are towards
liberal freedom under the United King-
dom type of democracy, towards
mutual self-help and development
under such schemes as the Colombo
Plan and such others as are fostered
by the United Kingdom authorities
who are too modest to say much about
their own good deeds.
With some exceptions, the movement
is towards a general liberal-conservative
uniformity in politics, mutual aspira-
tions of peace and goodwill and a
common plan to even-up living
conditions and adapt the use of
economic surpluses in the “have”
nations to the standard of the
economies of the “have-nots.” These
trends are not entirely disinterested,
for the conception is growing of a
world-wide English-speaking associa-
tion of countries supplying each other’s
needs and providing each with the
products and the services which it most
requires for the benefit of all. while
not inhibiting the competitive spirit and
the natural religious and political local
tendencies and aspirations of the
different nations involved.
TT is strange to see. while the
Russians and their satellites, the
loudest preachers of the rights of small
nations, trend more strongly towards
armed imperialism, despite their loud-
mouthed worship of what they call
“peace,” and the Americans steadily
develop a policy of economic
imperialism, the apparently dismem-
bered British “empire” being restuck
together with the cement of goodwill,
mutual interest and common ideals of
justice and Parliamentary procedures
typified anew in every freshly fledged
legislature and court in Africa and
Asia by the appearance of the wig and
the mace and the black gown of order
and justice.
The dynamic of the new Common-
wealth is enormous; its latent resources
and vacant living-room in countries of
moderate climate are unique in the
world today. Its racial make-up and
aspirations are too diffuse at ground-
level to make it possible for the Com-
monwealth as a whole to become an
aspirant to world-conquest and to
threaten the integrity of other nations,
but its combined strength to resist
aggression if it can agree on a united
defensive programme is without
parallel.


WINE WEEK AFTERTHOUGHT
“Do you think it’s mellowing at all, or just turning sour?”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Middle East Refugees
The reports before the U.N. Assembly
show the sad state of millions of people
round the Mediterranean and in southern
Asia; the result of aggression and trans-
fers of population by force of a public
opinion which has very little ingredient
of conscience.
The worst case is that of Palestine,
where a huge indigenous population of
Arabs whose ancestors had lived in the
area for hundreds, and perhaps thous-
ands, of years were thrown-out to make
way for a Jewish population nearly all
of which was descended from ancestors
who had not been in Palestine for any-
thing from a thousand to two-thousand
years.
The creation of independent Israel
undoubtedly was backed by some of the
greater nations of the earth not because
they were impressed with the claims of
the Israelites but because a victory for
the agitators would mean another blow
to British prestige.
Apart from the fact that it created a
permanent sore in the centre of the Arab
world and gave more impetus to the
Arab movement, which has resulted in
the creation of a totalitarian Egypt and
Iraq (and continual threat of war to the
advantage of the Communist Powers to
the north) it meant throwing the Arabs
off their little farmsteads and out of
their homes to make way for Jewish
immigrants, of whom in the years 1948-56
14 per cent, came from Poland, 23 per
cent, from French North Africa, 6 per
cent, from Yemen, 14 per cent, from
Rumania, 4 per cent, from Turkey and
4 per cent, from Iran.
The total population of Israel is now
just under 2,000,000. When Israel was
founded it was about the same, but the
racial make-up was about 1.1-million
Moslems and 614,000 Jews ; a year later
the bulk of the Moslems were in refugee-
camps and/or a charge on the charity of
the civilised world.
The camps were organised in 1951 in
four host-countries—“ Gaza, Jordan,
Lebanon and Syria”— to provide for
400,000 refugees. Requirements have
increased regularly by natural-increase
ever since. They have grown in numbers
to 1,087,000 on the census of June last.
They are fed on the entirely inadequate
basis of 1500 calories a day for 844,000
of them, with 16,500 receiving half-
rations and some others receiving what
would be normal to well-fed men and
women. These latter are mainly t.b.
patients and women about to have
children.
The most that the refugee agency has
been able to do in housing in a little
over 10 years is to bring about “the
virtual disappearance of tents” in camps
and to provide the growing proportion
of the refugees now living in the camps
with huts much below the normal
standard of prison-camps in civilised
countries, but the best that the funds
will buy.
Pointing-out that “every aspect of life
and human endeavor in the Near East is
conditioned and complicated by the
Palestine refugee problem,” the U.N.
refugee-director “emphasises that any
solution to this problem must take into
account the psychological, political and
economic aspects.”
These refugees are not assimilable by
neighboring Arab countries which have
trouble enough in caring for their own,
even with outside help. Because of their
types and way of life they are scarcely
assimilable in European-populated or
non-Moslem lands.
No Hangover
Probably the only criticism that could
reasonably be made of the Wine Festival
in Melbourne was that its chief impact,
in the samplings at the Exhibition Build-
ing, was on a public which was already
converted to and initiated in wine-
drinking.
Should the Sydney wine-authorities,
who will stage a wine-show of some kind
next year, decide on a festival similar
to Melbourne’s, the trade’s purpose, to
broaden the wine-public, might be better
served by a wider invitation-list.
The Melbourne festival was designed
chiefly to broaden the outlook on wine
of those who already buy it, since the
invitations were issued chiefly through
wine-retailers ; but the wine-associations
also had invitation-lists, and the demon-
stration of wine-cooking and the associa-
tion of the wool-trade with the festival
also brought in new customers.
The figures quoted at the banquets
of the growing volume of wine-con-
sumption were cheerful, not only for
the industry but also for those who
hope for more discreet drinking in this
country; but they are still extremely
low in comparison with the figures of
the beer-guzzlers—and some at least of
the improvements must be due to buy-
ing by migrants.
Premier Bolte gave some sound advice
when, in discussing one of the industry’s
chief burdens, wine-snobbery, he said
a wise man simply found what wine he
liked and stuck to it. The guests cer-
tainly had every opportunity to do that
at the festival.
Lord Carrington
When Peter Alexander Rupert Caring-
ton, sixth Baron Carrington, left Aus-
tralia the other day after being United
Kingdom High Commissioner since
November, 1956, he took with him the
friendship of all Australians who had
met him. And that’s saying more than
may appear, because not every Aus-
tralian loves a lord in the same way as
the English do. Something more is
needed here, besides a kind heart and a
coronet —and this is just where Lord
Carrington scored.
To start with, he's a practical farmer
and knows the problems of farmers and
graziers from first-hand experience on
his own land near Aylesbury (Bucks),
where he runs Hereford - Shorthorn
crossbred cattle. Then he was a soldier,
too —major in the Grenadier Guards,
with an M.C. won in north-west Europe.
Political experience also helped
him (Parliamentary Secretary to the
British Ministry of Agriculture and
Fisheries, 1951-54, and to the Ministry
of Defence, 1954-56), but never took
away the “common touch” which made
Australians respect his knowledge, tact
and ability, yet also admire him as a
man.
The Caringtons had left a mark in
N.S.W. before. The third Baron
Carrington (later first and last Marquess
of Lincolnshire) was Governor of
N.S.W. from 1885 to 1890. To this day
the Carington family-crest forms the
badge of two famous armored regi-
ments, which inherited the traditions of
the Light Horse. The sixth Lord Carring-
ton, following his great-uncle’s example,
has extended his family’s influence to the
whole Commonwealth.
He said before he left for England
that he would return to politics there—
he calls himself a “radical Conservative.”
Mr. Macjuillan has assured that this will
be done to advantage by appointing him
First Lord of the Admiralty.
Bequests of History
The opening of the Dixson wing of the
N.S.W. Public Library last week was an
event comparable with the opening of
the Mitchell Library, that rich fountain
of original Australiana unparalleled
in its nature in any other country in the
world.
Sir William Dixson was a wealthy
man and his knowledge of early Aus-
traliana was probably unequalled in his
time and ranged over a far wider field
than David Scott Mitchell’s, since it
embraced not only books and manu-
scripts but pictures and objects Vith
historical associations.
Moreover, his gifts and bequests were
accompanied by the means to make the
best use of them, which made them
infinitely the more valuable.
Maps, coins, medals, curios, relics,
postage-stamps, and even the coining-
press of the old Mint in Sydney —the
first in Australia —went into his collec-
tions. The bulk of them have now gone
into national possession, along with
20,000 books, mostly rare and valuable
and many of them association pieces,
autographed by the author or possessed
at some time by an historic personage.
Sir William began to present his
treasures to the State in 1919, and in
1924 he informed the Trustees of the
Public Library that he intended ulti-
mately to leave the whole of his collec-
tions to them. The Dixson Wing was
then erected as an adjunct to the Mitchell
Library, part of it occupied by book-
stacks and part by the Dixson Gallery,
with a priceless collection of early
pictures connected with Australasian
history.
In 1951-52 Dixson made an outright
gift of £15,000 which has been used as
an endowment to provide capital for
the purchase of further pictures and


about the same time he began to trans-
fer the rest of his great collection to
the Library building.
At his death the removal of the vast
and orderly accumulation, now valued
at several hundred thousand pounds and
much of it nationally priceless, was com-
pleted. His bequests of material were
supplemented by investments valued at
the time at £114,000, but now worth
infinitely more, to establish the William
Dixson Foundation, the income from
which is to be used chiefly to print
historical manuscripts and rare books in
modern type or photographic reproduc-
tion, so that they may be available to
students.
The opening this week of the beautiful
reorganised Dixson Galleries and
Library building, to meet the needs
created by installation of these priceless
gifts, is a reminder to those who have
become rich out of the resources of
Australia and its pioneering opportunities
of the historical collection-work that
remains still to be done by those with
capital to do it.
Every State in the Commonwealth
needs a Dixson to rescue for posterity
the memorials of the past, some of the
most valuable of which steadily dis-
appear for want of somebody to invest-
in and preserve them.
Fauna Protection
For a department keen to clean-up the
lamentable trade in protected birds and
animals in Victoria, the Fisheries and
Game Branch hardly approached it in
their best stalking tradition by the pub-
lic proclamation of a wide hunt against
those keeping or buying them.
Yet Rylah, the Chief Secretary,
deserved considerable credit for initiat-
ing (and the South Australian Govern-
ment for coming to the party) the
organisation of a campaign in behalf of
native fauna.
It is now also possible, particularly
if they succeed in further worth-while
discoveries, that Canberra may be
stirred into assisting, possibly by facili-
tating an amendment to Section 92 of
the Constitution exempting trade in fur
and feathers from its provisions.
It is not a small business. In the first
nine months of 1957-58 about 41,000
parrots and galahs, 400 other bird-
species and 500 native Australian animals
were exported, or their owners received
export-permits for them.
Only a small percentage ever reached
their destinations alive, according to
Victorian fauna authorities; and the
prices they bring in Europe seem to
confirm this.
Bower-birds, galahs and kookaburras
have been bringing more than £4O. This
price contrasts with the latest fine in
Victoria of £lO on an offender, a New
Australian, caught using bird-nets.
The Fisheries and Game Branch now
proposes to make rigid checks of all
dealers in native game in Victoria,
especially in kangaroos, wallabies,
bower-birds, magpies, kookaburras,
bronzewing pigeons, king-parrots and
Major Mitchell cockatoos.
South Australia is approaching the
issue rather more gingerly with a Govern-
ment announcement that in future any
persons wishing to trap protected game
must apply for a permit; and permits
for the rarer species will be issued only
in exceptional circumstances.
In Victoria it will be possible for the
Game Branch to prosecute those buying
fiom dealers as well as those more
active in the trade; but with a maxi-
mum fine of £5 for an illegally-held
bird the undercover traffic is not likely
to wilt.
Dr. Evatt Chief Justice?
The fact that Cahill has not denied the
suggestion of Askin, Leader of the
Opposition, that it is intended to appoint
Dr. Evatt Chief Justice of N. S. Wales
when Sir Kenneth Street retires next
January seems to suggest that there is
meat in the story.
The plan has been canvassed for some
months, but it has not been believed in
most legal circles that Cahill would risk
such an appointment.
The Labor party is always reiterating
the shop-worn sentiment that not only
should justice be done, but that it should
seem to be done. And few citizens look-
ing at Evatt’s record over the past few
years would be inclined to feel confi-
dence in his sense of justice or in his
impartiality when his emotions are
aroused.
His behavior in reference to the Aus-
tralia First men was scarcely the product
of a judicial mind. After a royal com-
mission had been appointed he issued, as
Attorney-General, this warning:
Any person rushing- in to make party
political capital out of these eases will
find, when the full facts are disclosed, that
he is on the side of . . . undoubtedly a
quisling, subversive anti-Australian and
anti-British g'roup.
' His conduct in the Petrov Commission
proceedings even more strongly high-
lighted the lengths to which he was
prepared to go in advocacy on the basis
of the flimsiest information or no
evidence at all, in matters sub judice.
The three judges sitting as commis-
sioners on that occasion—one from
South Australia, the senior puisne judge
of the Queensland Supreme Court and
Sir William Owen, senior puisne judge
of the N. S. Wales Supreme Court, who
will be the senior colleague of the new
Chief Justice and who was chairman—
wrote in their report on his part in the
proceedings:—
Charge followed charge with bewilder-
ing variations. Suggestions were made of
blackmail, forgery, uttering, fabrication,
fraud and conspiracy and—upon repeated
assurances of Dr. Evatt that liis examina-
tion of witnesses was directed to these
matters and would prove them—we felt
constrained to permit him great latitude in
his questioning. This we felt bound to
do. since an exhaustive inquiry by us
into the authenticity of Exhibit J was part
of our duty . . .
No evidence was produced by Dr. Evatt
to support these accusations.
The commissioners wrote that “all
the charges turned-out to be fantastic
and wholly unsupported by any credible
evidence.”
In withdrawing his permission to
appear because he had attacked wit-
nesses, or potential ones, in the press
while appearing before them as an advo-
cate, the commissioners declared that
his conduct “emphasises the conflict
between your two capacities which makes
it impossible for you to approach the
elucidation of the facts with the imper-
sonal detachment proper to an advocate.”
Mr. Justice Owen remarked:
Dr. Evatt, we think it is a very serious
an<l wrong thing for an advocate to make
public statements concerning matters into
which we are inquiring and to make defa-
matory statements to the public about
persons who are giving evidence before
ns ... If I was sitting in a nisi prius
action and one of the counsel sitting
before me made a statement to the press
reflecting on the credibility of his
opponent’s witnesses, not merely would I
refuse to allow him to appear further,
but I would without hesitation commit
him for contempt of court.
Thus in two cases of great importance
Dr. Evatt showed himself so unjudicial
of mind as to produce serious doubts
about his capacity to conform to the
basic rules of fairness and ethics rightly
imposed on officers of the courts.
Whatever Evatt’s merits as a lawyer,
his choice as Chief Justice would cer-
tainly not be dictated by the fact that
he was the best man available. Rather
would it appear to be a move to get rid
of a Federal Labor leader who has long
been an embarrassment to his party and
particularly to the Cahill Government,
which depends so much for support on
the Catholic Labor vote. His appoint-
ment would leave the way open for a
reorganisation of the Federal leadership.
Victoria's In Front
[From Canberra]
Champions for the advantages of Vic-
toria over N.S.W. received some sup-
port from Commonwealth Statistician
Carver last week. In a demographic
review, Carver revealed that Victoria
was gaining population at a much greater
rate than N.S.W. In fact. Victoria's
population-gain through the net migra-
tion from overseas exceeded that of
N.S.W., Queensland and South Aus-
tralia combined. Natural increase, com-
pared with that of the previous year,
rose more than that of any other State,
whereas in N.S.W. it actually decreased.
The pro-Victorians argue that all this
shows that Victorians themselves believe
Victoria is a better place in which to
raise families and that migrants are
under the impression that Victoria is the
best State in which to settle.
To all this, the N.S.W. supporters
merely point to the figures and say—
well, N.S.W. still has nearly a million
more people than Victoria, 3,756,375 to
2,814,523.
Apart from N.S.W. and Victoria, the
most fantastic population-increase in
the 12 months ending June 30 was in
the A.C.T. —a little more than 4000, or
exactly 10 per cent.
At June 30 the total population in
Australia was 10,061,222 —an increase of
315,082 in the 12 months. Of this in-
crease, 137,925 was natural increase and
77,157 from migration.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INS"
TAisembarking for the refuelling
of the super-plane I wondered
idly if the men realised how
lucky they were to have their lower
members covered with trousers...
’course, some of the ladies were, too,
especially those casual travellers, the
Yanks! Folks said, that nylon elastic
stockings were the answer ; as a result,
on the Boeing 707, Doric pillars replaced
my legs with terrifying rapidity, and I
thought it must be the added height. A
bearded professor returning to Aus-
tralia from his native Italy chatted with
me. Said I, “Are your legs swollen?”
He replied “No,” and as I drew him to
look he added, “But then, I don’t wear
nylon stockings.” I remembered to close
my gaping mouth as he went on: “You
take them off, and your legs will go
down.” / did and they did! Airline
please note! —“Sister Ellell.”
“Exped”: Junior’s new headmaster
didn’t impress me much, but I sought to
raise his stocks with Junior by pointing
out that he’d held positions in every State
in Australia. “Yeah!” rejoined Junior.
“What d’ y’ reckon they’ll do with him
when this State gets too hot to hold
him?”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“O’Jai”: Over the years “See Naples
and die” meant to me that, once having
seen the beauty and grandeur of Naples,
one should be content to fade away. But
it wasn’t until I spent some time in Naples
that I learned that “die” refers to Due,
a collection of little rocks connected to
the mainland by a bridge. Round Naples
they are known as the Margellina Rocks,
“la morte sulla pietra”—death under
your feet. Hence “due” or die.
*£♦
“Baksac”: I’d often heard the warning
passed around, but never before had I
seen it written ; but there it was, a proper
signwriter’s job in an eye-catching
position in a Sydney junkyard: “No
Swearing. Ladies Within Hearing.” A
highly-commendable piece of gallantry.
Only one thing spoilt the general effect:
the burst of fruity profanity wafted over
the neighboring fence —in a woman’s
voice.
❖ ♦> ♦>
“Kerba”: Curious how “bomb” has
usurped the meaning of its antithesis,
“dud.” In my wayward youth, that
wrecker of neighbors’ letterboxes, the
basket-bomb, was a bomb in anyone’s
language. Today it would be declared a
bomb only if it emitted a poorish
pop or failed to do damage remotely in
proportion to its reputation.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Barra”: Tell “Seback” (B. 7/10/’59)
that Ballarat (Vic.) has a suburb named
Mount Pleasant, which it isn’t. Has
never had a pub, and is a dead-marine
.Valhalla.
<£►
“Blocker”: The announcement that
the West Melbourne Stadium would be
known in future as “Festival Hall” caused
many of the old pugs around town to
shake their heads sadly and mutter about
the joint never being the same again.
But a former prelim.-fighter who saw
the opening show in the renamed arena
told me that the old atmosphere was
still there. Bottles still rolled down the
aisles; the multicolored flashing lights
were just like those he used to see while
being carried out after a losing bout; and
the featured American rock-’n’-roll group
(appropriately called “The Champs”)
handed-out as savage an ear-pounding as
any he ever collected in his years of
stoush.
TRY IT ON YOUR GOANNA
“The popular belief that a goanna-bite causes
a sore that breaks out once a year is just an
old wives’ tale, according to Mr. H. Ci.
Cogger, of the Australian Museum, who added
that no goanna was venomous.”
Christmas comes back once a year,
Easter wanes and waxes,
Seasons are as regular
As gasbills are, or taxes ;
Confident in day and night,
l am shocked to learn
That the iguana’s bite
Never will return.
Such is Mr. Cogger’s text
For anyone who reads:
What will Science murder next
Of our simple creeds ?
How distasteful to admit,
And what will it avail,
That all that the goanna bit
Was an old wife’s tale !
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


Train trundled into a Melbourne
suburban station, destination on
front reading: “Flinders St.,” indication-
board saying: “Dandenong.” Appealed-
to, the porter was frank: “I dunno.” So
half the people on the platform got in
and half the passengers. got out. Porter
conferred with driver, and announced:
“Dandenong.” So the people who got
in, got out, and the people who got out,
got in. Then the stationmaster arrived
and, with lordly disdain, solved every-
thing: “Train not going.” So everyone
got out. —“R. E.”
& ♦>
“Sister Elleli”: Sharply contrasted to
Australian authorities’ “Keep off the
grass” notices were those in Waikiki,
Honolulu. In keeping with the gaily-
flowered muu-muus of the ladies (every
woman looked pregnant), the matching
tucked-out shirt of spouses (or otherwise)
and the flip-flop shoes of both, were the
signs on the lawns, inviting all to sit on
’em, keep ’em clean and tidy, and above
all, have fun.
♦l* C*
“F.J.S.”: The rise from 3yd. to sd. in
postage on accounts and other com-
mercial communications in unsealed
envelopes will decrease postings by
retailers. One Brisbane department-store
with many credit and mail-order
customers has sent this notice with the
month’s account:
As a measure to combat ever-rising costs,
we propose to adopt, as from your next
Monthly Statement, the following pro-
cedure when payment of accounts is
received by mail:—The receipt will be made
out and the proper duty-stamp affixed.
Instead of sending back the receipt at
once, it will be sent on to you when your
next Monthly Statement is posted.
This means that instead of spending
7d. a month a customer on postage (3yd.
to post account and 3yd. to post receipt)
the firm will now spend sd. a month to
post both account and receipt.
❖ *2* ♦>
“Malo”: In the train-carriage the old
lady helped the small boy to lift a heavy
basket on to the luggage-rack. Consterna-
tion among near passengers when drips
began to fall from the basket. “Your
pickles must be leaking, Sonny,” the
old lady said. “Pickles nothing,” replied
the youngster. “Them’s puppies!”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Sanasi”: After a four-State road-
tour it seems to me that half the popu-
lation is travelling and the other half is
living-off them in motels and hash-houses.
Thirty years ago The Bulletin, writing
on hotels, said Australians had the best
foods and the worst cooks. It’s still true.
If my wife offered me the same as some
of the wayside breakfasts for which I was
charged Bs. and dinners anything up to
14s. I’d let her have them as Bob Dyer
hands his lemon-meringue pies to his
customers. I had one midday dinner in
a well-known apple-town—apples to right
of us, apples to left of us and notices
“Eat more apples” all over the place—
but did we get apple-sauce with the
rather nicely-cooked roast pork? We did
"I told you before We left home, dear, We're both out-of-character
in this get-up."
not. When I asked the skivvy for it she
didn’t have a clue! Nor did the boss.
+*+ +l+ ♦*«
“O’Jai”: Hope “B. A. Ker” never hits
the U.S. with his use of “knocked-up! ”
The Australian “get a screw,” meaning
to take a look, or be paid a wage, is
a worse nightmare—in an office it got
me the bullet. “Getting bushed” means
not to get lost, but to feel tired. Women
looking for “frocks” would find only
gowns or dresses. Office jargon: one
works “Monday thru Friday,” puts the
month before the day at the top of a
letter, and avoids commas, anathema to
the Yankee boss. While I was there,
“good deal” was not exclusive to Wall
Street, but a remark made if one did
well at anything; catching the bus by
the skin of one’s teeth, meeting an old
friend, getting a rise, all brought forth
the flattering “Good deal!” Another all-
embracing inanity which had nothing
whatever to do with horses was “You
bet!” Apologising for walking on some-
one’s corn, remarking on the weather,
thanking a sales-assistant elicited the
abrupt “You bet!”
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Mugga Way”: Newspaper articles on
the life of Queen Mary mentioned the
Orient liner Ophir in which the Royal
Party travelled to Australia for the open-
ing of the first Federal Parliament in
Melbourne in 1901. I wasn’t around
then, but was interested to see the historic
ship, then a drab grey and a bit untidy,
lying near an oil-berth at Palembang,
in Sumatra, in August, 1941. A few
years ago I tried to find out her subse-
quent history and whether she had
survived the war, but without success.
Neither the Orient Co., which had sold
her long before, nor Lloyd’s Register
could offer any information. Does any-
one know?
* ❖ ❖
“Q.Ree”: The Fijian came into the
yard with beautiful pawpaws for sale as I
stood talking to a neighbor, with my
three-year-old son hanging onto my skirt.
I walked up the path to get some money
from the house with my little boy behind
me. I happened to glance back and saw
such a wide smile on the Fijian’s face that
I smiled back, feeling rather foolish that
I hadn’t greeted him properly the first
time. I felt even more foolish when I
realised that the smile was because my
dear little boy had held my skirt above
his head and the Fijian had had a
wonderful view of white legs and skin-
tight pantees as I sauntered along the
path.
# *:<
“J.J.A.”: The people of Maryborough
(Vic.) woke-up to find themselves without
a council, councillors or mayor. Nor did
they have a Water Trust. And this was
all because of four little words, “or any
other Act,” which were tacked onto the
oath a few months back and which they
had all forgotten. You or I would have


merely taken the oath again with the
proper wording, but Governments can’t
do such things. They are passing a
special Act of Parliament to set things
right. Several other councils in Victoria
are in the same boat, and they have been
advised not to sit until things are straight-
ened out. So some places have no
councils and other places have councils
provided they don’t meet. Oddly enough,
nobody really seems to have missed them
y et - ♦ » *
v
“P.0.M.C.”: My remarks (B. 7/10/’59)
on the luck of the color red in horse-
racing were illustrated four days later
when a horse of mediocre form but “all-
red” livery went out to race at Randwick
carrying my coin and returned a place-
divvy of 18s. 3d. for each five-bob
invested.
A a
“Canopus”: Tell “Murray Swagman”
(B. 5/8/’59) he will have to add about
two years to his record of the youngest
“This modern trend can be overdone !”
war-veteran. Towards the end they
weren t so fussy about qualifications. The
youngest I saw was only 16 in 1918. After
training and transport he was big and
husky and able to sink plenty of point-
blank (white wine). He wandered around
Peronne ruins in T 8 with another irre-
sponsible of about the same vintage, both
very drunk. They stood a dud 8.9 up and
were trying to detonate it with rifle-fire
from about 40ft. It didn’t go off, but a
sergeant who happened along did—good
and proper. For a rough shot, I reckon
these chaps were born during the 1902
drought. ~
* * *
“Roomy”: English as expressed by
correspondents of Melbourne “Sun’s”
Teen-page: “Most 17-year-olds drive
just as good, or better than older people.”
“This is an entirely different age than
_
The Bulletin, October 21, 1959
the one in which they lived.” “I also
don’t think rock-’n’-roll is bad.” “Parents
and teachers impress upon us the neces-
sity of giving up our seats . . “Who
manufactures loud clothes? Adults, of
course.” My 16-year-old correspon-
dent’s comment was enlightening: “Well,
no one bothers thinking writing letters! ”
* * ***
“Comae”: Footwork of the Yugoslav
Kolo dancers so impressed Brisbane
sportsmen that they offered two of the
dancers jobs as professional Soccer
players. The reply was a polite “No,
thanks,” and indeed the critiques accor-
ded Soccer-matches in N. S. Wales hardly
encourage entry into the business,
* ♦ ♦
v v
“Narumee”: Our postie apologised
for being so late with the mail on the
morning of October I—there had been a
Christmas-like volume of letters jamming
the mailboxes on the last day of the
fourpenny, she explained. “Yeah,” said
the old chap, leaning over the next-door
fence, “and my Mum used to have your
job, girlie, more than fifty years back,
Postage and posties was cheaper then ;
Mum got a tanner a week.” After
Postie’s shocked exclamations and
subsequent departure, the old chap
grinned at me: “Of course, there wasn’t
but three houses here then!” Now there’s
a solid network of streets
* * *
, .
oanasi : You cant win on the gee-
gees”—l’ve heard it scores of times ; but
you can, and over 43 years I’ve shown
a profit of 25 per cent., and that’s better
tlL^. ank " intere T st - In training-camp
, ” 8 " as ac^^ ltte d free of
ar §e o the Old Course (Victoria Park,
Adelaide) and by my then sheila was
ca^' e f. 1^ to P ut 4 in g five-bob (real money
in 1916 for a soldier on weekend leave)
on a horse on the Lady’s Tote. My nag
(Maori Lad) and another dead-heated
for first place, and, in the run-off Maori
Lad romped home. I collected 6s. 3d.,
and I’ve never invested a bob on a hay-
burner since!
♦> ♦>
“Meerum”: But is green an unlucky
color (B. 23/9/’59)? Surely not now
that the fashion-moguls have decreed it
top -chic for the best-dressed in both
hemispheres? Green was considered
unlucky because'it was the fairies’ color
and, the little people being notoriously
jealous of their privileges and perquisites,
they revenged themselves horribly on
mortal wearers of the green. But haute
couture has come out on the side of the
educators, who have long ago clamped-
down on fairy-lore on the grounds that
the kiddies must not be encouraged to
believe in flitting fays and peak-eared
elves.
“PINS"-UP GIRLS
“Hollywood, convinced that the public is
tired of stars with beautiful faces but scraggy
limbs, and aware that even the famous
‘bosoms’ have disproportionately tenuous legs,
is looking for young stars whose qualifications
will include shapely but solid legs.” —Movie
magazine.
The need to have a change
Isn’t, after all, so strange ;
Too much of anything is apt to pall.
We’d damn soon give it away
If served caviar every day,
Or every night had to attend a ball,
Or were forced to gaze on dames
With attenuated frames,
Their pipe-like arms looking as if
they’d snap;
Lean and meagre feminine craft
Who might capsize in a draught,
Or by vibrations from a thunderclap.
On the silver-screen intrude
Bosoms of great amplitude,
Owned by Diana, Marilyn and Jane.
On this mystery meditate:
How their pins can take the weight?
Their beef conks-out well above these,
it’s plain.
Oh, the poorhouse-pudding leg,
The pinched and peaky peg,
Has razor-edged shin topped by a bony
knob.
Kleig-lights, douse your powerful glims!
Cameras, whirl not on such limbs!
Film-moguls rate ’em now at two-a-
bob.
Constantly Eve gets narked
That meat just can’t be parked
Where she’d prefer it; but if hers has
gone
To upholstering a shank,
It’s like money in the bank !
That talent, talent-scouts will quickly
con.
Banished is the angled bone ;
She comes back into her own,
The gal who solid underpinning sports.
Meaty legs will soon enrich
Many a full-length feature which
May (or may not) requhe supporting
shorts !
N.s.w.
S.W.K.


Tt mightn’t be my lot ever to own a
•*- car; but that’s not the experience
of Mr. B. Humberstone, a Brisbane
spring-maker. He bought his 28th car
recently—a 1950 model. He’s done all
this buying in 20 years ; his first car, a
1926 model, was bought in 1939. Before
that this car-changer owned a motorbike
and two pushbikes.—“Jock.”
♦>
“Ike”: Seems the do-it-yourself
scheme for living is on the wane. Heard
over a recent news-broadcast that
members of the furniture-trade were all
set to make an official protest to the
Government about the inroads do-it-
yourself campaigns were making into
their industry. “The public,” announced
the news-reader, “should be asked not
to do it themselves.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Jock”: Mention of Dr. C. E. W. Bean,
historian of the First A.I.F. (B. 7/10/’59),
reminds me ihat once he was nearly
pinched by the Germans. It was at
Villers-Bretonneux in the rugged to-and-
fro fighting of early April, 1918, when we
didn’t know exactly where Fritz was,
and vice versa. Bean and a companion,
Captain G. H. Wilkins (later Sir Hubert),
official photographer, were in a battered
old car, driving out of the town after a
close-up look-see, when bullets zinged
across the road and they saw German
infantry nearby. An ambush threatened,
but fortunately the accelerator was in
good order and they got out of a tight
corner tout de suite. The Diggers always
had a good word for the pair—the war
wasn’t a remote-control job for them.
♦Jt ♦£♦
“0.W.W.”: I always wonder why The
Adventures of Mrs. Bridget Mac Sweeney,
a vastly circulated book of robust
humor, written, I think, by Thos. E.
Spencer, has not survived with Lawson,
Rudd and Dennis. I read it as a young
lad around 1920, and found it far funnier
than the Selection series. Bridget’s adven-
tures originally appeared in The Bulletin
early in the century, and it seems strange
that they have been completely forgotten.
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦>
“Shibli”: Photos of an aircraft stradd-
ling a gorse-bush down Timaru way are
regarded by many as proof that an N.Z.
amateur, Dick Pearse, made the world’s
first flight in a heavier-than-air machine
in April, 1903, several months before
the ascent by the Wright Brothers in
America Dick Pearse had been experi-
menting from early in the century, but
did not make his half-mile flight, ending
with the historic gorse-bush landing, until
three years later. They say the machine
may still be seen in one of the hangars
of the Canterbury Aero Club.
* ❖ *
“Pat”: Some psychiatrist has listed
“going to the pictures” as a major form
of escapism. Maybe it was once, but
that delicious sense of relaxing into
another world when one faces the silver-
screen is diminishing. The need for
escape getting the better of me on the
Labor Day long weekend, I took a turn
at Sydney Embassy to watch “Behind
the Mask.” During the technicolored
heart-operation sequence I became
aware of panic movement on my right.
During interval 1 had noted a middle-
aged woman seated there. I didn’t move
quickly enough ; she fainted right across
my lap. “Too much realism in the damn’
shows these days,” averred her husband
"I pride myself on keeping this library respectable —I personally
expurgate all my books.”
irritably from her other side, and asked
my assistance to carry her out to fresh
air. You certainly don’t escape much at
the pictures now.
♦2* <♦ ❖
“Mitron”: When accosted by an
inebriated gent in a tram, my friend
would indicate deafness by shaking his
head and pointing to his ears. This
method was successful on many occa-
sions, the i.g. turning his attentions else-
where, leaving friend to read his paper
in peace. But one i.g. played the game
according to different rules; he sub-
jected my friend for nearly four miles
to a one-way conversation at the top
of his voice. Most of his many and
varied remarks were prefaced by “Sorry
you’re deaf, mate.” Other travellers
enjoyed the situation immensely. My
friend agrees' he could have moved to
another part of the tram, but he was
so bewildered at the failure of his
proven method that this course didn’t
occur to him. He says he won’t have
the courage to use the system any more.
♦> *
“Kenyas”: Home after a trip to
Europe we met friends who’d been away
at the same time, and, comparing notes,
found that, all unknowing, for quite a bit
we’d lived under the same roof in a large
block of flats at Maida Vale. On the
other hand, in South Africa I amused
myself tobogganning down the slippery-
dip which used to be on the beach at
Durban and which, when it had finished
with you, precipitated your body ih the
midst of the multitude on the sands,
When I was ejected, I tried to save myself
by clutching at a passer-by. She turned-
out to be a woman relative: I hadn’t a
clue till then that she’d torn herseif away
from the shelter of her Sydney North
Shore bungalow.
“L. 8.5.”: Attention, umbrella-manu-
facturers! Sir Edmund Hillary proposes
to explore wet, wind-swept, south-west
Tasmania early in 1960. Consider the
advertising-value in a photo of Everest’s
conqueror, hot on the scent of a Tas-
manian-devil, successfully unfurling your
umbrella in heavy rain and a 60-m.p.h.
gale.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Wusslean”: No-deposit hire-purchase
can have its benevolent side. Several
months ago an acquaintance, 8., came
home to find wall-to-wall carpet re-
placing the outworn floor-coverings in
best-bedroom and hall; Mrs. 8., off her
own bat, had had it laid by a no-deposit
firm. Since the carpet-layers departed,
nothing has been heard from the firm.
Mrs. B. says she wasn’t even asked to
sign an agreement, and maintains that
if the firm wants to be paid it should
ask. B. says it’s nothing to do with
him— he didn’t buy the carpet, so why
should he pester the vendor? All the
same, it wouldn’t surprise me if in 10
or 15 years a Melbourne carpet-firm
receives conscience-money
S.A.
Twinkle, twinkle, little star!
How 1 wonder what you are.
Is that where you always were,
Or did the Russians put you there ?
JOEL.


POLITICAL POINTS
Although the A.L.P. remains decades
behind in facing-up to modern economics
it is very much in the running in the
political rat-race. A.L.P. men on Mel-
bourne City Council were as happy as
other councillors at having a mighty
building at last on the Western Market
site —until the agitation for a public-
square began. Then they saw the oppor-
tunity of winning acclaim at the expense
of the non-Labor councillors and began
to query the varying of some conditions
of the lease. Actually A.L.P. councillors
had been parties to the variations.
• •
The long-promised committee to re-
view Australia’s tax-laws should be
announced shortly.
Prime Minister Menzies last week had
talks with representative organisations,
particularly accountants and business-
men, to ensure, in his own words, the
appointment of people “who will carry
weight all round.” Membership and
terms of- reference of the committee are
expected to be announced this week.
At the same time the Government will
probably announce the terms of reference
of the committee to inquire into the
Post Office capital-structure. But there’s
little chance of their being wide enough
to cover, all aspects of Post Office
administration.
• •
When the medical profession was
urging last year that the new medical
No startling changes were made in the
British Cabinet in the post-election
reshuffle. All but two of the old team are
in the new, though seven of them have
been given a change of job. Alan Lennox
Boyd, Colonial Secretary since 1954, has
retired to the back benches. The Colonial
Office seems to be rather a hot seat;
Lennox Boyd’s five-year tenure is the
longest since Joe Chamberlain’s day.
lain MacLeod is the new Colonial
Secretary. One of the younger men of
Cabinet, he became Minister for Health
in 1952 and Minister for Labor and
National Service in 1955. He's 45.
Geoffrey Lloyd, Minister for Education,
is the other casualty ; his portfolio goes
to David Eccles, President of the Board
of Trade in the old Parliament, who had
an earlier term as Education Minister
under Churchill and Eden.
The new post of Minister Responsible
for Scientific Development has been given
to Viscount Hailsham, who will couple
it with the post of Lord Privy Seal.
Duncan Sandys becomes Minister for
Aviation (a separate portfolio for the first
time), handing over the Defence Ministry
to Harold Watkinson, formerly Minister
for Transport.
• •
N.S.W. Opposition-leader Askin thinks
there may be something in the rumor
that Dr. Evatt may be the next Chief
Justice in N. S. Wales. The latest version
of the story goes like this; the Doc.
will be appointed C.J. in succession to
Sir Kenneth Street, due for retirement
at the end of January ; G. Neilly, Labor
M. for Cessnock, will get the nomina-
tion for the Doc.’s seat, Hunter. Reg
Downing, M.L.C. and Minister for
Justice, will get the nomination for
Cessnock. The idea, says Askin, is to
bring Downing into the Assembly to
pave the way for his succession to the
Premiership when Cahill steps down.
And, of course, to enable the A.L.P. to
get a new Federal leader.
• •
New Staters are promising (threaten-
ing might be a better word) to stand at
next year’s State election on a policy
of “sovereign rights for North Queens-
land.” Executive-committee member of
N. New State Movement A. D.
Hooper says he will run for North
Townsville. In the same breath he
points out that North Queensland, with
a quarter South Queensland’s population,
produces half as much. In support, he
quotes the Government Statistician’s
1957-58 figures—£4s2.s per capita pro-
duction for the north; £228.3 for the
south.
school should be sited somewhere near
the two big North Shore hospitals they
were told that it was important that the
medical faculty should be in close
proximity to the Arts and Science
faculties at the University of N. S. Wales
and that it was therefore preferable to
have it at Kensington. Now Cahill has
announced that it will be established in
the grounds of Prince Henry Hospital
at Little Bay, which isn’t near to any-
thing, except Long Bay jail and
Bunnerong powerhouse.
• •
Senator Nancy Buttfield, from South
Australia, looks like receiving a frank
lesson on “all’s fair in love and politics.”
Today (Wednesday) she’ll be facing the
full wrath and ire of Country-party
Senators who, she alleged, because of
their stodginess, boycotted her plan for
a Senate committee to study tourism.
C.P. Senators are said to be furious that
Nancy should have disclosed (through
a newspaper article) what went on at a
meeting of Government Senators to dis-
cuss her proposal.
• •
Queensland Government is eagerly
awaiting the 1961 census —Ministers
claim the Statistician’s between-census
population-estimates short-change their
State. Since tax-reimbursements are
determined on official figures, the Gov-
ernment’s anxiety for a census is under-
standable. Premier Nicklin points out
that the last two census-figures were
above computed estimates, and he pre-
dicts a repeat performance next time.
Latest official statistics give Queensland
the smallest population-growth rate of
any State.
“At that international conference on Antarctica they reckon it’s too cold
down here even for the cold war!”


Cahill’s Bill for a referendum on
Legislative Council abolition is promised
for before Christmas, he feeling that
“all difficulties” about preparing it
have “been resolved.” One difficulty he
hasn’t been able to face yet is that good
union-secretaries regard the Upper House
as the White House is supposed to be
regarded by young Americans. The
spectacle of some present and prospective
M.L.C.s pursuing abolition will be like
that of an unarmed coolie pursuing a
leopard—keeping it in sight, but out of
reach. Cahill himself is said to favor
retention, with adjustments to make it a
better tool for the Government. That
is not a good start.
• •
S.A. plans to duplicate the Morgan-
Whyalla pipeline which takes River
Murray water around the head of
Spencer Gulf. This has been made
necessary by decisions to expand the
activities of Whyalla and Iron Knob by
the erection of steelworks and the estab-
lishment of a plant to treat low-grade
iron-ore. As far as possible the new line
will follow a different route from the old
so as to benefit additional areas on the
way. The existing line is expected to
handle 3000-million gallons this year.
• •
Queensland Police Union is protest-
ing against the State Government’s
decision to employ public servants “on
the force,” saying that this would deprive
the cops of the experience of working
as clerks ; that in some cases it would
be a disservice to the force ; and that the
commissioner would have little, if any,
control over public servants so
employed.
• •
Thirteen nations, including Australia,
have signed the Eisenhower Treaty, which
supposedly removes the threat of the
Antarctic being used as a military base.
No treaty, however, will stand in the way
of any plans of the Russians who have
squatted widely in Australian Antarctic
territory, refusing to recognise any rights
under international law, the U.S. being
compelled—not too reluctantly—to follow
suit. Since the nearest point of the
Antarctic continent is only 1450 miles
from the Commonwealth, the matter has
vital importance for Australia in the age
of rocketry.
• •
Davis Hughes, C.P. member for Armi-
dale, is urging the Cahill Government
to consider a five-year land-settlement
scheme to provide land for “thousands of
land-hungry young men —sons of farmers
and graduates of agricultural high
schools, colleges and universities.” He
suggests converting the present war-
service settlement organisation into a
land-settlement commission which would
acquire suitable properties at fair market
values ; investigate the farming possibili-
ties of undeveloped Crown land and bring
into production, by modern methods,
land previously not considered suitable
for farming.
Thinking, no doubt, of the A.M.P.
Society’s project in the Ninety Mile
Desert, he suggests that the commission
could undertake large-scale clearing of
land, sow it to pasture and then sub-
divide it for settlement, employing
potential settlers on the initial work.
To finance his scheme he suggests an
approach to the new Commonwealth
Development Bank.
The scheme sounds rather too practical
to interest the Cahills, though the mode
of financing it should appeal to them.
• •
Q.L.P. is the first of the four main
political parties to call nominations for
next year’s Queensland election. Former
Premier Gair says nominations close the
last Friday this month, and selections will
be made early to allow ample organising
time. The Q.C.E. is expected to make
Labor’s selections —on the plea that with
boundaries redistributed, there’ll be no
time for plebiscites. It won’t discuss
calling nominations until the end of this
month. Liberal and Country Party
nominations aren’t expected to close until
early in the New Year.
• •
State headquarters of the two
Government parties in Queensland have
warned their branches against com-
placency on next year’s election. Word
has gone out to all branches that the
Q.L.P. can be regarded as a doubtful
quantity in pulling votes away from
A.L.P. Election is scheduled for March
or April next year.
• •
That Granny “Herald” has returned
to the habits of her youth and begun to
give coverage to Federal Parliamentary
debates and question-time is a good
move, but embarrassing to members who
value the limelight. The effort to evolve
a technique which will allow a member
to use both broadcasting and Granny to
get maximum publicity from each is
likely to give a large batch of Parlia-
mentary coronary occlusions.
• •
Queensland has begun its first reaffore-
station programme north of Cooktown.
Patrol-vessel Melbidir recently took 500
hoop-pine seedlings from Cairns for
planting at the native settlement of
Bamanga, 17 miles south of Cape York.
Intention is to replace timber felled to
feed Bamanga’s sawmill.
• •
Defending his plan to amend the Local
Government Act to provide for the direct
election of mayors, N.S.W. Minister for
Local Government Renshaw said that
this system was the practice in Queens-
land and that a plebiscite of local-govern-
ment authorities in that State had voted
109 to 11 in favor of retaining it. It
would be more to the point if he agreed
to take a plebiscite of 1.-g. authorities in
N. S. Wales, but he and Cahill have
always been strangely reluctant to consult
the wishes of the people on matters con-
cerning local government. They even
repealed the legislation which provided
for the taking of a plebiscite before alter-
ing municipal boundaries.
• •
Five out of 10 of Macmillan’s senior
Ministers are Scots—Mac himself,
Kilmuir, Lord Home, Maclay and lain
MacLeod. Rab Butler was born in India,
son of a provincial Governor and Presi-
dent of the Viceroy’s Council of State.
Two had American mothers—(Mac and
Hailsham) and one a New Zealand
mother (Duncan Sandys). There are only
two members of the Cabinet over 60, the
P.M. and Heathcoat-Amory ; all but three
of the rest are in their fifties, the three
youngest being in their forties. Maudling,
President of the Board of Trade ,at 42, is
the baby.
• •
From J. A. J. Hunter, former M.H.R.
for Maranoa:
Your par, re joint-candidates for northern
seats in the Queensland Assembly turned-out
to be no kite (B. 14/10/’59), but almost
unbelievable fact. This, however, doesn’t close
the matter. I, among others, will have plenty
to say on the subject later.
• •
The Commonwealth Government is
not likely to act on a suggestion by
N.S.W. Laborite Whitlam that it should
finance compensation for road-accident
victims.
Whitlam said the Commonwealth,
through the Social Services Department,
should make periodic payments to road-
accident victims to ensure that their
income was the same during their period
of incapacity as it had been prior to the
accident. This figure could be readily
obtained from income-tax returns, thus
preventing any chance of people claiming
more than their entitlement.
Whitlam said the payments could be
financed through the petrol-tax, or some
.other excise-duty which the Common-
wealth could impose. This would be a
cheaper and readier form of financing
the proposals for compensation than
insurance.
• •
Albert Monk, the A.C.T.U.’s will-o’-
the-wisp president, is off on his 36th trip
abroad at the expense of the unionists
and the taxpayers. This time he is going
to Geneva for the 1.L.0. meeting, will
cross to London to hold some confer-
ences with union-leaders there, will go
to Brussels for an I.F.T.U. congress, and
be back to grace his native land with his
presence by Christmas Day.
• •
The U.K. Labor party has one merit
and one hopq—that it is prepared to
move with the times. Even its official
organ, “The Daily Herald,” urged the
party, after its defeat, to “reorganise and
throw away the dogma of the nineteenth
century.” Australian Labor still lives in
the world of 1890 —that part of it which
doesn’t live in the world of Moscow.


Personal
ITEMS
Taking a spell after 48 years, F. A.
O’Connor, secretary of the Department
of Supply, joined the Federal service as
a boy. His successor will be J. L. Knott,
former secretary of the Department of
Defence Production, which has now been
amalgamated with the Supply Depart-
ment.
• •
President of the newly-formed Federa-
tion of Australian Airline Pilots,
Brisbane’s Captain Richard Tweedy Holt
was employed in the Lands Department’s
mapping-section when War II broke-out,
joined the R.A.A.F. in 1940 and served
as a fighter-pilot in Great Britain and
New Guinea. He joined A.N.A. after the
war and has been flying for that company
ever since. An active member of the
federation's forerunner, the Airline Pilots’
Association, he’s a keen fisherman and
plays a bit of golf.
• •
Appointed manager of the Elizabethan
Trust Opera Company, Adelaide-born
Thomas Brown went from Australia to
England in 1947 as a ballet-student, later
winning a scholarship to the Old Vic
to study theatre-production. He was
stage-manager at the Old Vic when Hugh
Hunt was director there. For the past
five years he has been connected with the
annual Ontario (Canada) Shakspearian
Festival. When he joined the Ontario
Festival it used a circus-tent for its
theatre ; in the five years of its growth it
became one of the most successful,
ventures in North America. Brown, as
assistant artistic-director, worked closely
with the designers in constructing its
permanent theatre.
• •
The annual convention of the Aus-
tralian Association of Advertising
Agencies, due to open at Broadbeach
(Q.) on October 26, will have an inter-
national flavor. Frederic R. Gamble,
president of the American Association,
will be there, and Harold Austed is repre-
senting the New Zealand Advertising
Agencies' Association. More than 100
advertising-men are expected to attend,
and Premier Nicklin will be guest-of-
honor at the opening-dinner.
• •
No relation to the famous “Granny,”
Herbert Velvin Smith, of Batlow
(N.S.W.), has also done his whack for
fruitgrowing in Australia. Awarded the
0.8. E. in the New Year honors in
recognition of about 40 years’ service
to the industry, he has a swag of achieve-
ments to his credit. He . was first presi-
dent of the old Fruitgrowers’ Federation
of N.S.W. in 1942-44 and' again in
1956-57, and took a leading part in
the formation of the Apple and Pear
Growers’ Association (which included
leading apple- and pear-growers’ orga-
nisations in each State of the Common-
monwealth) and was N.S.W. delegate for
many years. He was also N.S.W. chair-
man of the Apple and Pear Acquisition
Committee during the war years.
Sketched herewith, H. V. Smith had
established an orchard in Batlow before
FRUIT
War I (in which he served with the 3rd
Div. Engineers) and, on return, was
responsible for the foundation, in 1923,
of the Batlow Co-operative Cool Stores,
becoming its secretary. When the Batlow
Packing House Co-operative was formed
and amalgamated with the Cool Stores he-
was appointed general-manager, holding
this position until he retired in 1956.
In War II a vegetable - dehydration
plant established by the Commonwealth
Government was operated by the Pack-
ing House Co-operative and, after the
war ended, Smith reorganised the plant,
which now markets under the “Moun-
tain Maid” label. He also submitted
the settlement-scheme now supporting
over 20 ex-servicemen near Tum-
barumba.
A prominent figure in all local
organisations, he has also been twice
called-on to visit Malaya. He went there
for three months in 1957 on behalf of
the Federal Government to report on
the Colombo Plan, and now is just back
from his second visit, made at the request
of the Minister for Agriculture of the
Malayan Government. He still finds time
to give practical help to any who need
it, coax trout from nearby streams,
follow Rugby League and do a lot of
color-photography.
* , *
Dr. V. K. R. V. Rao, delivering the
Dyason Memorial Lectures in Aus-
tralia under the auspices of the Institute
of International Affairs, is an Indian
academic who speaks his piece without
exhibiting any chip on his shoulder while
so doing. Dr. Rao is objective but
animated in dealing with his subject, and
obviously enjoys his job. He is Vice-
Chancellor of Delhi University and has
been India’s representative in various
international economic discussions; the
theme of his Dyason lectures is an
analysis of the problems that face an
underdeveloped country like India in
trying to get away from its economic
stagnation. India, he says, is aiming to do
it within the context of a free society,
whereas it was done in the U.K. and on
the Continent before there was universal
suffrage, and is being done in the Iron
Curtain countries under totalitarian rule.
The lectures are particularly interesting
to Australia because we are also an
underdeveloped economy luxuriating in
an atmosphere of the Welfare State and
as much political freedom as we choose to
vote ourselves. Both India and Aus-
tralia need to create capital ; but the
Welfare State is a consumer State rather
than a surplus- (or capital-) -creating
State.
• •
Nationalities are mixed in the five-
man C.5.1.R.0. team which is working
on the Hunter Valley Research Founda-
tion project on land-resources at Cessnock
(N.S.W.). There are two Australians:
A. Stewart, officer-in-charge of regional
surveys in the C.S.I.RO.’s division of
land-resources and regional-surveys, and
Dr. T. Chapman, hydrologist and
C.5.1.R.0. liaison-officer with the founda-
tion at Newcastle. Other members are:
Dr. R. Galloway, a geomorphologist from
Scotland ; Dr. R. Story, a plantecologist
from South Africa ; and R. Messe-
maeckers Van de Graaff, a soil-scientist
from the Netherlands.
• •
“Oily Rag”: There are to be several
important changes in Army appointments.
. Brigadier W. W. Wearne, at present com-
manding the 11th Infantry Brigade, is to
take-over the Ist Infantry Brigade Group
from Brigadier J. S. (“Hans”) Andersen,
who raised it and has commanded it until
now. Brigadier N. L. Currie, at present
Australian Army representative in the
U.K., is to take-over the 11th Infantry
Brigade. Both Wearne and Currie are
Queenslanders, and both came through
Duntroon. Wearne was at Tobruk
(where he collected a “mention” and an
0.8. E.) and later went to the U.K. Joint
Services Staff College and School of
Amphibious Warfare.
Neal Currie got “bagged” in the
Western Desert in April, 1941, and after
the war was posted to the staff of the
R.M.C., Duntroon, and then to Military
Intelligence, becoming D.M.I. in 1953.
I met him often in Singapore, Saigon


and Melbourne, and was always glad to
see him and to hear his views on the
various problems of the Far East —always
sensible and to the point. He’s a cheer-
ful type and got on well with British,
Americans and Frenchmen. There are
other appointments, too: Colonel T. G.
Trainor takes-over as Australian Army
Force commander in Malaya, replacing
Colonel E. G. McNamara, who becomes
Deputy Director of Military Training.
The new Director of Military Training
will be Brigadier T. S. Taylor, at present
Commandant, Australian Staff College.
Taylor went from Sandhurst into the
Indian Army, won an M.C. with the 14th
Punjabis in Waziristan in 1937, served in
Malaya and India during the war and
joined the A.M.F. in 1948. He was State
Marshal for South Australia during the
1954 Royal Tour.
• •
Keith Currie, principal of Bridgetown
(W.A.) Junior High School, has been
awarded an Imperial Relations Trust
Research Fellowship which will take him
for two years’ work in the Institute of
Education at London University.
Educated at Christ Church Grammar,
Claremont (W.A.), where he ended as
captain of the school and of the first
XVIII, he taught in a number of country
and suburban schools before going to
Bridgetown. He’s always in demand for
talks to audiences interested in the trend
of modern education.
• •
Alec Creswick,'with one of the oldest
names in Victorian racing, pipped
D. J. S. Mackinnon (an equally honored
name) and a quality w.-f.-a. field for the
vacancy on the V.R.C. committee.
The winner is a very lucky fellow,
since in 20 years’ membership of the
V.R.C. Jhe has owned such good race-
horses as Clear Springs, Mile End,
Glitzern and the crackerjack filly True
Course, who was retired, unbeatable in
her class, after winning nearly £26,000.
Judgment of horseflesh is a help, of
course ; his grandfather, A. T. Creswick,
was the owner of first-class racehorses,
too, notably Cimbrian ; but his father,
KENNETH ALLEN, United Kingdom
Trade Commissioner in Queensland.
H.F., was not so lucky. Alec Creswick
was team-manager of the Australian
Olympic Games equestrian-group which
competed in Stockholm in 1956, and he
is a stalwart of the Royal Agricultural
Society.
The runner-up, D.J.S., is a son of
one of the V.R.C.’s most admired
chairmen, the late L. K. S. Mackinnon ;
his grandfather was a committeeman*
too.
• «
A colleague farewells a star:
The late Jack Davey was fundamentally
a simple soul, but he had a built-in
energy-drive which not only took him
to the highest peak of popularity but
also sent him off-balance, occasionally
in smaller matters.
For this restless, shrewd-headed senti-
mentalist held the unshakeable belief
that he could do everything supremely
well; play cards, compose songs, write
poetry, and drive racing-cars.
In most cases, I’ll admit, ruefully, he
was dead right—and even when he was
dead wrong that almost tangible charm
of his robbed his attitude of any aggres-
siveness. For instance, Jack thought he
could play golf with the same effortless
swing he put into his quiz-shows and film-
commentaries.
Well, he couldn’t play golf for peanuts.
Even I could beat him. And whenever
he took a 9 on a par 3, he’d blame his
back, his rheumatics, or anything else
within reach.
Conversely, though—and here’s where
the man’s appeal lay —if ever one of his
shows fluffed, through no fault of his
own, he’d take the entire blame on
himself, and defy anyone to share it.
In small matters there was no more
amiable egotist than Jack Davey. In
the larger issues of his own profession,
however, a more exacting self-critic never
stayed up all night pulling his own
performance and his own script to pieces.
In his comedy show-days he would groan
aloud for 20 minutes over one gag;
reduce his writers to murderous rage over
a period of six hours —and then, within
five seconds, charm them back to smiling
co-operation.
To the press he was a model for his
profession. He never resented a bad
critique, never bore a grudge, never tried
to pull his influence.
Apart from all this, of course, he was
the best tireless, selfless, all-round enter-
tainer we’ve ever produced. May his
requiem be peaceful. He’s earned a rest.
• •
Winning the M.C. has become a
habit in the Wren family. Sidney won
his on the Somme in War I—he’d started
as a trooper in the Canadian cavalry
and transferred to the British Army.
His two sons won theirs in War 11,
when Sidney also came back for more
as a private in the A.M.F. and ended
as a major, this time on the staff.
Outside these Army occasions, Sidney
Wren (pictured above) is a journalist
of international experience. He’s worked
in most capital-cities and from the
JOURNALISM
Rockies to the Balkans, as well as from
Scandinavia to Australia.
When the Nicklin Government came
into power in Queensland he was chosen
to reorganise “The Countryman,” official
newspaper of the State’s Country party.
• •
Into the Silence
At Chelmer (Q.), Grace Francis, nurse and
social-worker. In War I she served with the
A.N.S. in France and England. In 1923, with
Catherine Capel, she opened the first A.I.M.
hospital at Birdsville (Q.), and in 1928 did a
further two years with the A.I.M. at Victoria
River Downs (N.T.). Commandant of the
Maryborough V.A.D. in War 11, she was
awarded the M.B.E. in 1950 for her services
to nursing.
In Randwick (Sydney) Hospital, at 68, John
Huntley Collins, 0.8. E., first secretary of the
Queensland branch of the R.S.L. He was
secretary of Bondi Diggers’ Club from 1935
to 1953 and president in 1953-54.
In Sydney, at 57, Richard Edward Paul
Dwyer, director of the Department of Agricul-
ture, Stock and Fisheries in New Guinea. He
joined the N.G. Administration in 1934, and
during War II served with the N.G. Volunteer
Rifles.
in London, at 83, O. M. Green, writer on
Far Eastern affairs in the London "Observer”
since 1944. Editor of the Shanghai "North
China Daily News” for 20 years, he left China
in 1931 but always kept his keen interest in
the Far East.
In London, at 72, A. F. E. Warner, partner
with his brother in Talwood (Q.) station until
a few years ago, and with interests in Warran-
dine and Bundah properties.
In Brisbane, at 56, Wing-Commander John
“Bugle” Campbell, the first aircraft-apprentice
toolmaker ever enlisted in the R.A.A.F. (1923).
As a war-time squadron-leader he led two
evacuations from Singapore and Java, sailing
through enemy waters in a bullet-riddled tramp-
steamer.
In Barcaldine (Q.) Hospital, at 62, Kailu
Ano, a Torres Island tribal chieftain who had
worked most of his life as a Queensland Rail-
ways laborer. Sixty Torres Islanders travelled
from Blackall, Hughenden and Townsville to
give him a king’s burial, with full tribal
honors.
In Brisbane, at 67, Charles George Henderson,
president of the Royal Queensland Aero Club.
In Vancouver (Canada), at 50, Errol Flynn,
who was born in Tasmania, went to Hollywood
and became the carpet-knight of Filmland.


ABORIGINALITIES
Tn the old days it was the Fijians
who used to shock Europeans
by their lack of clothes—times have
changed. The missionaries introduced
their converts to hide-all dresses, while
European women were being freed from
Ihem. Even now, Fijian women wouldn't
go anywhere without their ankle-length
sulus under their stylish dresses. The
Indian women are well covered with their
blouses, long underskirts and beautiful
saris. Because of this, very few European
"What will it he today — Dinosaur-soup or Brontosaurus-broth?"
women in Fiji wear shorts or play-suits.
It is left to tourists to scandalise the
colored population, and they managed so
well that now women tourists are often
asked not to wear these clothes ashore.
As most women tourists are well past
their prime, and their figures are not
what they were in their youth, it was not
always just the native population that
was shocked by elderly women in brief
shorts and bras. —“Q. Ree” (Fiji).
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: Fact sometimes is
stranger than fiction. Out in the Indian
Ocean flying-fish (Quinlan, B. 30/9/’59)
occasionally do execute a passable loop
in flight. I’ve seen ’em do it—on nothing
stronger than lime-juice.
* * * . *
“Olivia”: When schooners started to
fly during a Saturday-afternoon brawl
between shearers in his little pub in
northern Victoria, Bung threatened to
ring the police—until he recalled that the
pub had no phone. Then he had a brain-
wave ; he ran into the kitchen, grabbed
the alarm-clock, turned the alarm to the
current hour and braked the bell on and
oft. At the same time he called in a
loud voice: “.Is that the exchange?
Get me the police, quick!” “I’ll soon
fix that! ” roared one of the shearers.
Producing a pair of pliers, he raced out
the back door and cut the clothesline.
Returning to the now-quietened bar-
room, he yelled: “Y’ can get on with y’r
fightin’, boys —there’ll be no coppers
here today.”
* * * *
“Reims”: The main point of my par.
on aboriginal pronunciation (B. 30/9/’59)
was lost through my typewriter having
omitted the initial “g” in the anglicised
spelling of the mallee-hen's other name,
“gnow.” Although the “g” is popularly
silent now it originally had a definite
purpose in representing the true native
pronunciation, and although it probably
didn’t satisfy the original translator it
was as close as our tongue could get to it.
It’s ’ altogether different from the abo.
sound “ng,” as in Ngarla, in which both
consonants are sounded, and it occurs
again in the Westralian wheatbelt-town
of Mingenew. We pronounce that
“Mininew” now, and old-timers have
claimed that that's near enough to the
way the natives mouthed it; but in the
original leases, granted in 1856, the
spring from which the town’s name is
derived is spelt Mengenew. Apparently
there was some inflexion in the native
pronunciation which was discernible only
FOR RUDOLF MEISTER
Sometimes you smell like old leather,
Sometimes like mice
Warm in the wainscot,
Sometimes (post bath)
Of most unnatural cleanliness,
Beloved and present template
Of all dogs l have known,
Black badger-hound of Deutschland !
There was Tobias
Who lived on the love of his owner.
Too much heart, ran the diagnosis
When he came earless home,
A bloodied warrior.
But such chipping at his beauty did not
deter
Tobias from barking through a newsreel,
Parading in processions, torch-lit and
band-led,
Dogging the Finnin footsteps from dawn-
light to bed.
There was Simon, that well-beloved
Prince of fox-terriers,
Always manoeuvring our washes
Into his desires.
Beating all comers at the Coronation
show
(And biting the tail of the Hereford bull
At the blue-ribbon parade in the ring).
Dying of too much life in our arms
And being buried
Under his bone-bank rose-tree,
Shrouded in
Vicky’s Balmoral tartan.
There was Kimball O'Hara,
The wanderer,
The pariah,
The foxhound of suburbia,
Who hated the sound of telephones
And pushed them off the hook ;
But has his heaven now
Leading a mixed-breed rabbit-pack
From Bourke to Ivanhoe.
There was Simon the duck-dog,
Suspected a black Labrador.
A dog who kept his own demesne
And * barked intruders from three hills
. y ', , .
That was for duty.
. 1 y
His canine ways were gentleness
. , ~ ~ 6
And all his paths were peace.
c , . , : ~ /
Softly he took the birds
Plummeting from free air to prisoning
swamp.
But cats, cats in the carriage-shed,
Drew him to rage like moth to lamp.
Now you Rudolf
With your smell of old leather,
Or maybe a friendly mouse,
Have not / 2 i ng to Q ff er
But the twenty-three champions in your
pedigree
Your arrogance and Dresden-china shape
That has the passing school-children
agape
Your loyal heart and loving jealousy.
Though sadly we are badger-free,
jj y OU s h ou iy tunnel hard and deep
’Neath where the twin magnolias sleep,
Maybe through the hot world you’ll
chance
Upon some young Black Forest game
To lead our Rudolf such a dance
/// v short legs will come dragging home.
victoria.
MARY FINNIN.


\\e hnyrc- bjdies ; __—"•and, having ivnt, —' /jov&s on°,
lor Jl thy —-—■ — l?ety nor (lit sHdll Lee it —
v. j 1 1 d I' Hp c dll thy 'Jears msk oJT,
Xp cancel Hj- & line, J * cf it/


to a critical ear, or which became lost
soon after the natives made contact with
the whites ; an inflexion not easily
indicated in any combination of spelling
we are accustomed to using.
“Bass”: With k complete ban on
sprinklers from now till the end of
summer, Perth people are taking a keen
interest in underground-supplies; and
they’re being fed a lot of tripe from St.
George’s Terrace well-sinkers. The
commonest error is that the aquifers
beneath Perth hold unlimited supplies at
from 1000 ft. to 3000 ft., and that the
supplies could be augmented from these
indefinitely. That would have made the
early settlers laugh. For many years
Perth was supplied from bores, and
estates along the rivers were irrigated
“And what an EXECRABLE red!”
from the same source. When the water
in the aquifers lowered alarmingly an
Act was passed prohibiting the sinking of
further bores beyond a few hundred feet.
A further Act made it an offence to repair
a bore which became blocked or other-
wise unserviceable.
* * * *
“Monty”: I have always understood
that the term “Pommy” (B. 30/9/’59)
derived from “Pome” (the same pronun-
ciation), the letters standing for Prisoners
of Mother England. The contempt
originally associated with the term was
caused by the fact that most U.K. immi-
grants wanted to return home sooner or
later. Some of those going home merely
wanted to see their families again before
returning to become worth-while
additions to our population. Some never
returned.
* * * *
“Maitri”: Motoring back to Sydney
from Jenolan Caves with her nine-year-
old son, a neighbor came on a run-down
wallaby near Bell. They pulled-up and
got out, just to make sure the poor thing
was really dead, and discovered a very
young joey in the pouch. The creature
took some extracting, but they succeeded
at last and took him home, where, after
she’d rung the Zoo for instructions, he’s
been given as much attention as a human
baby \ HeS thn u vmg n f OW ’ but the lady
finds him something of a nuisance when
she s trying to get through her household
chores: Joey installs himself in her
apron-pocket and lel uses to budge,
* * * *
H. A. Lindsay: Re salt sold in bottles
(B. 23/9/759), I’ve, been looking-up prices
current in March, 1894. In that year
Standard Salt Co. and Castle Salt Co.,
of Edithburg (S.A.), put-up salt in 21b.
glass jars. With Black Horse salt in stone
jars, these were sold wholesale at 6s. 6d.
a dozen. There were also imported
brands in jars, such as Falk’s Jubilee,
Hickson’s Liverpool and a few German
brands selling at £4 a ton-lot, after paying
freight from overseas and a duty of
£1 ss. a ton. Local coarse-salt in sacks
sold at £1 ss. a ton. Other prices for
groceries: salmon 7s. dozen tins;
currants lb.; sultanas 3|d.; dates 4d.
Scoured wool was worth 9d. to Is. lb.,
greasy wool to Bd. But probably the
most striking thing was the price of
money. Anyone who had funds in the
National Bank, which had suspended
payment, and who was in urgent need of
cash, would have to discount every
pound for only 13s. 6d. These with
money in the E., S. and A. Chartered
Bank were slightly better off ; they could
sell their deposits for 14s. 6d. in the pound.
* * * *
“L. 8.5.”: Rate of natural regeneration
of radiata- pine so exceeds present cut-
ting-rate in a 275-square-mile forest in
the heart of the North Island (N.Z.)
that more timber-, pulp- and paper-
mills are urgently needed. The exploit-
ing company already has a payroll of
2000. Nobody ever imagined that
radiata would grow so fast as it does
in N.Z. Tallest specimen is said to be
a 202 ft. tree near Nelson, which soars
close to the 219 ft. Eucalyptus regnans,
planted in 1873 on a Waikato farm and
reputed to be the tallest tree in the
Dominion. The massive kauri (Agathis
australis), with its vast cubic-footage of
highly-prized timber, seldom exceeds
140 ft. Although found in its natural
state only in the northern half of the
North Island, kauri is now being success-
fully grown in nurseries, parks and
private gardens everywhere, even in
Invercargill and on Stewart Island. Odd
that this king of the forest should be
closely related to the quaint old Monkey
Puzzle ( Araucaria ).
« * * *
“E. & 0.E.”: Looking at counters
covered with hotwater-bottles of all
sizes and colors, was reminded of the
first I saw, at the beginning of the century.
My mother suffered from illness involving
great pain, only relieved by heat; we
warmed dinner-plates for immediate use,
followed by a bag filled with coarse-salt,
which took longer to heat, but lasted
longer. Someone advised a rubber hot-
water-bag newly arrived at our chemist’s:
at 12s. 6d. considered very expensive, but
it proved a great boon and lasted several
years. Thick, heavy and a dull-grey color,
it could not compete with later examples
in attractiveness, though in price and
other attributes there has been little
change in nearly 60 years.
* * * *
“Doynest”: Where are the songs of
yesteryear? Coming up fast on the hit-
parades. The other week I heard,
rendered into rock-’n’-roll, that lovely
English folksong “Lavender Blue,” also
“Clementine” (that’s what they called it,
anyway), “Annie Laurie” and “Loch
Lomond.” Though the original words
have been retained in “Annie” the air
has suffered a sea-change into something
—well, hardly rich, but certainly strange.
As for the bonnie, bonnie banks, who’d
want to meet again among those coke-
bottles of departed tourists? But the
teenagers accept these musical mon-
strosities as brand-new numbers. My
own youngsters were astounded when
told that “Annie Laurie” and “Loch
Lomond” were years ago part of the
repertoire of every schoolboy.
* * * *
“R.E.C.”: In his “Feathered Airlift”
(B. 9/9/’59), J. J. Larkin says the dollar-
bird comes south, “possibly from as far
as New Guinea.” When I was in Korea
with the 3rd Batt. in July, 1952 (mid-
summer there), I was delighted one very
hot 1 morning to hear the old familiar
“Ack-ack-ack-ack” coming from four
aerobatics - performing dollars. My
brother has also reported seeing them in
Pakistan. Possibly they migrate to Aus-
tralia from Korea.


'T'here is a grave in W.A. which
carries two memorial-stones: one
erected by public subscription, the other
by the State Government. The grave is
that of Philip Saunders, described as a
“pioneer prospector” and the first man
to discover gold in W.A. (1882). He was
93 when he died at Menzies in 1931,
and was buried in Kalgoorlie cemetery.
Saunders was recognised as a top-grade
prospector in Queensland before moving
across to the N.T., where, in 1881, he met
Adam Johns at Pine Creek. Together
they explored through from Roebourne
to the Kimberleys; there, just as they
were “specking” gold, Johns fell seriously
ill. Subsequently, in response to a tele-
gram that Saunders sent to John Forrest,
geologist E. T. Hardman was sent to
the Kimberley district. Hardman
recognised the metamorphic rocks that
might contain the' gold, and pointed out
likely places. The first reported gold
was in 1886, of 2700 z., but in those days
it was not necessary to record or report
gold found. Hall and Slattery were the
actual finders of the Hall’s Creek digg-
ings, and very soon after there were
other finds round about. That led to the
great Kimberley rush. —“Geekay.”
* * * *
“Mugga Way”: The tribute in verse
by Bill Harney to his friend Albert
Namatjira (B. 7/10/’59) should be given
worldwide reproduction as a white man’s
sorrow for his aboriginal comrade. This
would do more than reams of political
statements to prove that our feelings
towards our dark-skinned fellow-Aus-
tralians are not so black as they are
painted by some of our critics.
* * * *•
“Gangway”: Anyone who has lec-
tured servicemen will know how deflat-
ing it is when, after delivering what you
felt was a good lecture, you ask the class
for questions and some oaf puts up his
hand: “Yes. May we smoke?” On the
staff at Whale Island, Portsmouth, the
instructional school and Mecca of
British naval gunnery - officers, 1 had
held a class of foreign naval officers
spellbound, or so I thought, while I
expounded the intricacies of naval
bombardment. “Well, gentlemen, that
concludes this afternoon’s dissertation ;
are there any questions?” A sea of blank
faces looked at me for a while ; then:
“Yess. Vat iss der meaning of der vord
dissertation?”
* * * *
“O. K. Lee”: I always feel like draw-
ing my gat on the heroes in TV westerns
when they accuse the baddies of “bush-
whacking” the goodies, or of subjecting
them to the lynch-law procedure of
“kangaroo-courts.” It seems that to
“bushwhack,” in U.S. western parlance,
means to lie in ambush for someone
and shoot him in the back; while a
“kangaroo-court” sits only to decide
whether to hang the prisoner or truss
him up and harness him to a horse
which is about to be stampeded. It
seems feasible that “bushwhacking” was
taken by Australian “forty-niners” to the
U.S., where it gradually took-on a
criminal connotation, or that it could
have come here from America, and over
the years lost its opprobious significance.
But I’ve never been able to find or
formulate any theories on the-origin of
the “kangaroo-court,” which must have
had some Australian genesis, since the
’roo is indigenous only to Australia.
“Stop your tickling, Jock!”
“F.E.L.”: Punch on the jaw ; punch
in the kidneys (B. 16/9/’59)? Pass to
“Angus McScupper” these explanations:
“On” is used when the punch is delivered
to a projecting part of the body—i.e.,
nose, jaw, etc. “In” is used for the more
unobtrusive parts, such as the kidneys,
liver, solar-plexus, etc.
4> * * *
“Oscar”: My nomination for the
word used incorrectly most often is
“exotic.” In Hollywood, where promoters
are hard-pressed for adjectives to describe
their heroines, “exotic” has become
indigenous. I’ve seen Barrier Reef
souvenirs of coral and shells on sale in
Cairns called exotic, and an Australian
writer claiming the koala and wallaby to
be exotic. The perverted meaning has
become so accepted that the audience at
a lecture given by a noted botanist
seriously doubted the speaker’s aesthetic
capabilities when he used the word to
describe a weed known to all as “Stink-
ing Roger.”
# * * *
“J.J.A.”: In nearly every litter of pigs
there is a runt, born smaller than the
rest and remaining so while he stays
with his brothers and sisters. So when
the latest one reached three weeks I
decided to wean him. Putting him in a
bag, I took him half-a-mile away and
put him in a shed packed with baled
hay, where, on a diet of milk and grain,
he could be brought up to scratch with
the others. Next morning, counting the
litter, I found the runt back again. To
get there he had got out between the
bales, run the gauntlet of three dogs (all
stray-pig killers), found the gate in a
completely wire-netted 40-acre paddock,
crossed a busy road and wandered
another quarter-mile home to Mum —
all without having seen which way he
had left the family. First case I know
of a piglet having the homing-radar so
developed.
Tn both the N.T. and the Islands
officialdom is encountering an effer-
vescence of pointing - the - bone and
“purri-purri.” In the administration of
native peoples black-magic will always
be a problem, though I saw one out-
break successfully quashed in the Torres
Strait island of Moa.
A local magic-merchant told startled
villagers that he had established contact
with a mayhem-minded “debbil-debbil”
who threatened to wipe out the village
en masse unless appeased by generous
donations of the very best types of
provender. Gladly the villagers left
succulent portions of dugong and turtle-
meat, the best of garden-produce and
lashins of rope-stick tobacco at the hut
of the magic-merchant, who heroically
offered to act as go-between.
Although, under the strain of doing
business directly with the “debbil-debbil,”
the sorcerer was forced to retire from
all personal tucker-winning pursuits, he
continued to grow so fat that a kindly
official awarded him a spell in the
calaboose as a reducing measure.
Deprived of their go-between, the
villagers sat down resignedly to await
annihilation. When they were still alive
next morning they decided that the evil
spirit could not be much of a “debbil-
debbil,” since he left his local repre-
sentative in quod, and failed to execute
his threats. Thereafter they ceased all
appeasement offerings; and everything
—including the girth of the “purri-purri”
man —returned to normal in the village.
SHAMUSEN.


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urquhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridoes, F. H. Mullens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 0 Connell Street,
Telephone
mVRI7I (» lines) 81.K327
Sydney
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDKCELiEX.” Svdnev
DAVIS, ROTHWELL & CO.
(Incorporating Headlam, Hewson & Co.)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange .)
117 Pitt Street, Sydney. 193 Summer Street, Orange.
BL. 1833 (3 lines) Orange 4054
Telegraphic and Cable Address, “RETEP,” Sydney.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
AUSTRALIAN GYPSUM PRODUCTS
the one-for-one
bonus-issue at some dis-
tance (although the bonus was
announced after June 30, the
scrip has already been issued
for several weeks by all three
holding-cos.), the accounts of
the Australian Gypsum Pro-
ducts Pty. group were published
last week, and were the cause of
further market appreciation in
the prices of the three holding-
cos.’ shares. [The holding-cos.
are Australian Gypsum, Ltd.,
Victor Electric Plaster Ltd.,
and Peninsula Plaster, Ltd.,
each of which has a similar
equity, in proportion to its own
£1 shares, in A.G.P.]
The results shown are again
very good, but should, of
course, be taken in relation to
the new doubled capitals of
the holding-cos.
It has been a year in which
the investment spotlight has
swung onto the A.G.P. group
by reason of the concentration
of other sections of the build-
ing-materials industry in the
hands of C.S.R., which
already has extensive gypsum
interests, and during the year
has taken-over the majority
of the shares in Masonite,
leading building-board manu-
facturer in Australia, which
struck technical trouble at its
new dry-process plant at
Eildon in Victoria.
Associated Pulp and Paper
was a bidder for Masonite;
and when the C.S.R. outbid
A.P.P. there was a sharemarket
feeling that there might be
offers from two quarters for
Gypsum shares. At this point
the Gypsum directors decided
on the one-for-one bonus-
issue, which has certainly
shaken-off any takeover bids
for the present.
Tt has become customary
among building - materials
retailers to handle either C.S.R.
products or those of another
manufacturer, but not usually
both. This could produce a
strong sort of fellow-feeling
between A.P.P. (Burnie-board)
and Australian Gypsum Pro-
ducts, but whether it will ever
extend from the sympathetic or
complementary to the financial
still remains an intriguing
sharemarket question.
Gypsum is a basic material
in plaster-of-paris products
and Portland cement, and as a
soil-improver. The A.G.P.
group draws its main supply
of gypsum from around Sten-
house Bay (Yorke Peninsula,
S.A.). The deposits here are
particularly pure and are easily
mined. The co.’s other deposits
are at Kowulka (S.A.), Ivanhoe
(N.S.W.) and Mildura and in
the Mallee (Vic.).
A wide range of plaster
products are produced by the
co.’s mills at Melbourne, Syd-
ney, Adelaide, Thevenard,
Mildura and Auckland under
the trade-names of Victor and
Waratah. A new factory starts
in Brisbane in November.
Main products are fibrous-
plaster sheeting, cornices
and plaster-board. Hard-
wall plasters and dental and
surgical plasters are also pro-
duced. Then there are Perlite
lightweight aggregate, insul-
wool, and the widest range
of acoustic products turned-out
in Australia, as well as chalks
and micro-switches.
The whole organisation has
been extending and expanding,
financed out of ploughed-back
profits. Other businesses have
been taken-over each year
recently, and the practice has
been to write-off immediately
the excess cost over par of any
shares acquired. These annual
write-offs are shown in the
accompanying table. Last term
accumulated offsets against
intangibles and excess share-
values were shown for the first
time at £901,892, but whether
the whole of this item has
been established in the manner
of recent write-offs is not clear.
If it has been largely so estab-
lished it indicates a much
higher rate of ploughback in
years gone by than has
generally been believed.
As it is, profit-earning is at
a very satisfactory level, and
the well-placed and com-
fortably - financed group
appears to be more than
holding its own. Though
sales of all manufacturers of
plaster-board throughout Aus-
tralia last year were inclined
to level-off, the A.G.P. group-
turnover went to another high
record, assisted by the manage-
ment’s policy of developing
new lines and promoting the
uses of established ones.
After setting aside £199,996
(up £49,079) for depreciation
and £321,000 (up £20,662) for
taxation, group net profit,
including £lOO,OOO (unchanged)
earmarked for increased cost
of plant - replacement was
visibly £70,325 higher at
£458,008:
Australian Gypsum Products Pty.,
Ltd., and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
Jne..Profits. Dividends, serves. serves.*
£ £ £ £
Profit sale fixed assets,
£4085 1,144,747
’57..334,963 117,250 217,733 1,362,580
Tax written-back, £18,633 1,381,213
Profit sale assets, £9415 .. 1,390,628
Shares, subsidiaries, w/down
to par, net, £36,746 . . 1,353,882
’58..387,683 137,500 250,183 1,604,065
Shares, subsidiaries, w/down
to par, net, £23,046 . . 1,581,019
Tax written-back, £4246 . . 1,585,265
Profit sale assets, £4llB . . 1,589,383
’59-458,008 137,500 320,508 1,909,891
Reserve for intangibles,
£901,892 .. .. 2,811,783
* Since June 30, 1959, subject to
intangibles, £901,892.
In addition, there was a profit
on the sale of fixed assets
amounting to £4llB (£9415
previous year). If the tax-
provision is a true guide to
actual earnings, net profit from
trading last year was nearer
£535,000 than the figure dis-
closed, against £500,000
(worked-out on the same basis)
in the preceding year.
Following the bonus-issues,
the three holding-cos. have a
combined paid capital of
£2,625,000. On this new
capitalisation the 1958-59 profit
shown in the foregoing table
represents 17.5 p.c., and the
profit-figure worked-back from
tax amounts to 20.4 p.c.
In either case the 10 p.c.
dividend which is being main-
tained on the enlarged holding-
co. capital seems to be covered
most comfortably, in view of
the nature of the operating-
co.’s business and the trend of
constructional activity in Aus-
tralia.
In the Australian Gypsum
Products balance-sheet free-
holds, leaseholds and buildings
appear at £1,742,254 (up
£75,254); plant and equip-
ment is shown at £1,904,675
(up £229,096). Accumulated
depreciation is shown at
£1,277,053 (up £165,415). If all
the depreciation is deducted
from plant the net figure drops
to £627,622, or less than a third
of its original cost:
Australian Gypsum Products Pty.,
Ltd., and Subsidiaries.-
1958. 1959,
£ £
Paid capital held by—
Australian Gypsum 550,000 550,000
Victor Electric.. 550,000 550,000
Peninsula Plaster 275,000 275,000
Reserves .. . . 1,604,065 1,909,891
Intangible assets
reserve .. . . 877,928 901,892
Overdraft . . 249,878
Creditors and tax
provision . . 687,486 711,030
Deposits . . 68,750 68,750
4,863,107 4,966,563
Freeholds, lease-
holds . . . . 1,667,000 1,742.254
Plant, equipment.. 1,675,579 1,904,675
3,342,579 3,646,929
Less depreciation.. 1,111,638 1,277,053
2,230,941 2,369,876
Shares associated
cos 83,114 85,914
Stocks .. .. 641,591 565,007
Debtors . . . . 684,305 809,903
Cash and deposits 345,228 233,971
Goodwill, patents,
excess over par-
value . . .. 877,928 901,892
4,863,107 4,966,563
The £1 shares in the three
holding-cos. are currently
priced at 575. 6d., to return a
yield of only 3.5 p.c. on a 10
p.c. div. basis. But big expan-
sion has been financed out of
profits in recent years, and
earning-power should increase
as turnover grows without
much further capital-outlay.
Gypsum-processing is a key
Industry in which the A.G.P.
group is the dominant figure,
with strong finances behind it.
Pacific Island Mines, Ltd.
IDacific Island Mines, Ltd.,
has investigated its leases
on the island of Misima
(Papua) to the point where it
has decided to raise enough
capital to prospect them in a
more detailed manner.
The co. was formed in 1957,
and was at first attracted by a
variety of minerals to be found
on the island. It is now con-
centrating on the large gold-
bearing lodes, one of which in
the past yielded 114,0000 z. of
fine gold.
In his report on the area,
A. G. Palmer, mining-engineer,


INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
announces a new issue of
CORPORATION LIMITED
p
s
0
•-
0
" <
::
. ' :
HI
ra
WiS
m
mi ■
.
UPe® |l§§
m
:S : i ¥>
'
roar
7°j6 p.a. . . 6 yrs.
6p.o* . • 4 yrs.
6% p.a. . . 3 yrs.
51% p.a. • . 2 yrs.
5% p.a. 12 mtKs.
41% p.a. 9 Ruths.
4% p.a. 6 mths.
31% p.a. 3 mths.
ASSETS EXCEED <60,000,000
PAID UP CAPITAL <10,000,000
I.A.C. guarantees fixed quarterly
income, free of exchange. For full
details see Prospectus: your copy is
available from Members of all Stock
Exchanges, the 703 Branches of A.N.Z.
Bank Limited or I.A.C. Branches.
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
(.Established 29 years )
Branches at:
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • HOBART • CANBERRA
Underwriting Brokers, lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Canberra and Sydney
says that the numerous gold-
lodes so far discovered on
Misima Island are situated in
an intensely mineralised area
of about 22 square-miles.
Apart from the Umuna lode,
where sections of the oxidised
zone were extensively devel-
oped and mined, the lodes
have only been superficially
prospected, and, besides con-
tinuation to known deposits,
Palmer believes there are good
prospects for finding new lodes
in tracts of unexplored country
concealed by overburden and
jungle. The lodes of Misima
are considered to be the largest
ever found in the islands of
New Guinea.
The area lends itself to
cheap opencutting and modern
earthmoving methods. In the
oxidised portions of the lodes
gold is the only mineral of
commercial interest. In the
sulphides there is evidence of
lead, zinc and copper in depth,
as well as gold. The Misima
lodes are thought to have been
subject to secondary enrich-
ment above ground-water level,
and Palmer emphasises that
future testing of lode-structures
should not be confined to
shallow depths regardless of
values encountered.
With th s in view, the Bureau
of Mineral Resources has been
co-opted to carry-out a geo-
logical survey of Misima
Island (it began in May this
year), and application has been
made to the Administration in
Port Moresby to carry-out a
detailed programme of
diamond- and churn-drilling
on behalf of the co. Drilling-
rates charged by the Adminis-
tration are said to be extremely
low, and, it is pointed out,
drilling will play a vital part
in the projected exploration.
The float is only lightly
burdened with vendors’ con-
sideration. They will take 665
free ords. of £5 each (£3325),
and will have the right for two
years to take-up another 665
at par for cash. The public
is offered 5000 shares at par,
but the co. may go to allot-
ment on the subscription of
3000 shares (£15,000). Prior


nvest in
The longest established hire-purchase company-
in Australia,
k
in which the Bank of New South Wales
has a 40% shareholding.
DEBENTURE
STOCK
6 to 10 years 7%
4 years 6Va% 3 years 6% 2 years 5Va%
Short Term Stock also available from
3 months at 3Va%
Application Forms and Prospectus
• Any A.G.C. Branch B Your Stockbroker
• Bank of New South Wales at any Branch
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
142 Phillip Street, Sydney • BW 2673
Sydney • Melbourne • Brisbane • Adelaide • Perth
Hobart
Underwriting brokers: lAN POTTER t CO.
to these present issues 201
shares had been taken-up by
the directors and signatories,
Directors are G. W. Noe,
N. A. K. Wallis, Rupert V.
Brierley, E. R. Hudson and
K. H. Waterhouse. The mini-
mum subscription has already
been underwritten by brokers
Leslie D. Philips and Kitchen,
members of Sydney ’Change,
The venture represents an
interesting prospecting attempt
in a known mineralised area,
and appears to be in capable
hands.
a o r-L •
A Busy Chairman
VJIfARREN McDonald, chair-
TT man of the Common-
wealth Banking Corporation,
the Australian Airlines Com-
mission, and McDonald In-
dustries, Ltd., had a busy time
on his return from a two-
months trip abroad. He was
reported as saying, on Monday
of last week, that it would be
a thousand pities if air-fares
were to be increased. It should
only be considered as a last
resort. “Some of the frills
could be cut-out and economies
made before increasing fares.”
However, although the Inter-
national Air Transport Associ-
ation was discussing, in Hono-
lulu, cheaper air-fares to Aus-
tralia and N.Z. (without
coming to an agreement) and
British European Airways has
said it will cut its fares to
Europe and the Middle East in
1960, with “cheaper than rail”
air-travel believed to be loom-
ing in Great Britain, in Aus-
tralia on Thursday first-class
air-fares were raised by 3 \ p.c.
and tourist fares by 10 p.c.
A charge for transport to
and from aerodromes was also
announced, together with cuts
in meal-services aboard ’planes,
“I cant afford these new postal-rates."
Higher costs had made the
increases necessary, it was
officially stated with the
comment that Australian air-
fares were still among the
lowest in the world.
More in his role of chairman
of the Commonwealth Bank-
ing Corporation, Mr. Mc-
Donald expressed the view that
he thought the present rate of
investment-inflow into Australia
would continue. Overseas he
had found great faith and
interest in Australia. (Trea-
surer Harold Holt, incidentally,
on his return thought borrow-
ing overseas was becoming
harder.)
On the same day (Monday
of last week) Mr-. McDonald
chaired the annual meeting of
McDonald Industries, Ltd., and
announced the merger of the
construction interests of Email,
Ltd., with those of his own com-
pany. The Email unit is Atlas
Construction Pty., now trans-
ferred to McDonald for a con-
sideration of 140,000 Mc-
Donald ss. stock-units, plus a
cash consideration.
Atlas has been engaged in
power-station design and con-
struction, sub-station con-
struction, industrial engineer-
ing and construction and the
building of swimming-pools.
There will now be a pooling of
technical ability, mechanical
equipment and financial
resources.
McDonald Industries has
been a progressive and
profitable concern, originally
operating as McDonald Con-
structions Pty., which is now
the operating subsidiary. It
has made two bonus-issues this
year, the last being one-for-
two. Eh>bonus, the ss. shares
are now priced at 155., to yield
only 3.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis.
Paid capital of McDonald
Industries, allowing for the
bonus-issue and the considera-
tion to Email, will be £566,560
in 2,266,250 ords. of ss. each.
South Coast Telecasters
CjouTH Coast Telecasters,
Ltd., has been incor-
porated in N.S.W. with an
authorised capital of £600,000.
An initial public issue of
900,000 ss. shares will be made
shortly, without specific rights
but giving preference to resi-
dents of Illawarra and
Southern Tablelands (N.S.W.)
districts.
The co. has already applied
for a TV operating-licence.
Directors of the co. are
R. J. Atkins, a Wollongong
solicitor; W. G. Davies,
managing-director of the
Berrima pastoral firm Grant
Davies and Company; H. J.
Geddes, director of the Uni-
versity Farms at Camden;
A. N. Hindmarsh, managing-
director of Kiama Motor
Works Pty. and deputy-mayor
of Kiama ; and P. M. Threl-
fall, managing-director of Pve
Industries, Ltd.
Programme-arrangements in-
clude several which will be
originated locally.


A DISCRIMINATING HOST’S FIRST CHOICE
Va
V
\
f
Vintage Wines
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS: CRAIG MOSTYN & CO. PTY. LTD.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
‘‘Kolos” in Sydney
At Sydney Elizabethan the
Yugoslav Dance Company
drew together an extraordi-
narily peasant evening of
dances from places you never
heard of: Rugovo, Slovenia,
Glamoc, Barania, Voivodina,
Vranie, Banat.
The district dances had been
highly stylised and organised
for the stage, and they were
performed by dancers so skil-
ful that whether dancing in
line or arm-in-arm or hand-
in-hand the whole line seemed
to be performing from a
plank of air ; if they wanted
you to hear those bewildering
feet they let them swish on the
floor or stamped them ; if not,
they were silent.
The men were quite as deft
as the women; three men
dancing over knives fiad feet
that seemed to pour or wave
like cloth. Another speciality
was two men dancing a duel
with swords to the menacing
beat of a drummer on stage —
a bizarre and brilliant act. On
the opposite side of feeling
the Shiptar dance—“Shota,” a
Moslem wedding - duet
bubbled with the unbelievably
expressive gaiety of the little
bride-dancer.
Not only were these small
things honed-up to an edge of
perfection, but they opened, in
Auntie Marne’s phrase, new
doors to an Australian audi-
ence.
The little bubbling bride-
dancer, Zivka Namecek, was
one of the few with a pro-
grammed by-line; she came
out again to sing Serbian and
Croatian folksongs with a
wonderful tzigane and czardas
flavoring ; the flute-player,
Milosavljevic, was also men-
tioned, but not the player of the
three-stringed fiddle who
stamped his heel so much in
the style of “Turkey in the
Straw” throughout the Dal-
matian dance, or the girl with
the lovely Esther Williams
smile in the chain-dances . . .
But there you are. Orchestra
in the pit or orchestra on stage,
someone calling the turns, girls
squealing “Whee! ” anony-
mity is the essence of peasant
art; as Eliot remarks:
Lifting heavy feet in clumsy shoes,
Earth feet, loam feet, lifted in
country mirth....
Keeping time,
Keeping the rhythm in their dancing
As in their living in the living
seasons
But Eliot’s peasants were
never so deft or so gorgeously
dressed as these.
<s♦
Sigurd Rascher
Perhaps because there are
some comic elements about it
—a similarity in outline to a
meerschaum pipe, inevitably
provoking the thought that it
should be sucked instead of
blown; and a dual-personality
voice, able at one moment to
fill a comedy role like the
bassoon and a few seconds
later drop into a lugubriousness
so complete as to be itself
almost comic—the saxophone
has had to fight hard to get
established as a virtuoso,
instrument for classical music.
The visiting German saxo-
phonist, at his first Sydney
recital on Saturday night, drew
so widely on the instrument’s
extraordinary range, and im-
parted to its tone-color so
broad a compass as to scatter
a heap of prejudices about it.
He did it all in a this-is-dead-
easy manner ; he tossed-in, in
matey fashion, a commentary
here and there ; and his per-
sonality is such that when, in
the second movement of the
Bach Sonata in G Major, he
trailed-off into a diminuendo
of forgotten notes and strolled
across to look over his accom-
panist’s shoulder to refresh his
memory at the score, he did it
with an air suggesting: “Well,
what’s a trifle like this between
friends?”
That Bach sonata, of course,
was a transcription, the original
instrument being the flute ; and
the saxophone version, it must
be admitted, had the flute,
with its limited tone-color,
beaten hollow.
The programme’s first half
was, in fact, devoted entirely
to transcriptions for various
instruments, the originals all
stemming from the 16th to the
18th century, and most were
in dance-forms. Corelli sup-
plied a lilting Gigue after a
solemn Prelude which gave
Rascher a chance to display
a faultless legato. There was
Rameau with a lively Rigau-
don ; and, most attractive items
of the night, two Bourrees by
Purcell —a case, if ever there
was one, of an English com-
poser beating the Frenchmen
at one of their own most
sprightly dances. Here Rascher
achieved a perfect fusion of
melody and rhythm.
There were also three engag-
ing Flemish pieces dating back
into the mists of time, and the
“Air and Variations” from.
Handel’s Harpsichord Suite in
E in short, our old friend
“The Harmonious Blacksmith”
in yet another of his disguises.
The second half comprised
modern works written for the
instrument, most of them
specially for Rascher himself.
The best of these was a sonata
by the contemporary German,
Ernst-Lothar von Knorr. In
this —as in four shorter pieces
by Eugene Bozza, the Dutch-
man Henk Badings, English
composer Freda Swain and the
American Clair Leonard —the
accent was on pyrotechni-
calities, with an occasional
spasm in the direction of ex-
pressiveness. Whatever he was
called upon to display, Rascher
was always the facile master
of it.
Margaret Schofield’s col-
laboration at the piano was
assured and balanced.
❖ ❖ *>
Pro Musica
Pro Musica’s concert of
classical concertos, put on
under Professor Peart’s baton
last week in Sydney Univer-
sity’s Great Hall, was some-
thing of a study in contrasts —
not of music so much as of
performance.
After Rossini’s “Cinderella”
overture, played with a good
deal of spirit and too much
bass-drum, Ann Wentzel sat
down at the piano to do
justice to Mozart’s Ninth Con-
certo in E Flat. In the open-
ing allegro the balance between
orchestra and piano was poor,
and after a while one decided
Miss Wentzel was to blame:
she delighted in italicising left-
hand passages, and this,
coupled with a certain shy
quietness in the right-hand,
kept Mozart’s lacework in the
crochet stage—the brilliant
turns and the flowing scale-
passages, while fairly accurately
done, lost most of their glory
through being so soft.
In Boccherini’s ’Cello Con-
certo in B Flat, soloist Shelton
Lees occasionally rose to
measured and convincing
heights ; in the uncomplicated
choral lyricism of the slow
movement he seemed far more
at ease than in the opening
allegro (where the extended
cadenza was uneven in into-
nation and tuning) or in the
final rondo-allegro, with its
even tougher cadenza that
sounded at times as if Boc-
cherini belonged to the early
20th century.
But in Beethoven’s C Major
Piano Concerto soloist Marina
Moser stunned at least one
listener with a technique and
approach more usually found
in persons twice her age. In the
allegro con brio there was some
first-rate playing—and not
only by the pianist, either: the
orchestra found a new vigor.
Right through the concerto the
piano sang clearly ; Miss
Moser showered delicate thirds
and octaves and bounced into
the difficult final movement
with the ease of the born con-
cert-pianist.
A. W.
Artbursts
Off to Italy
Fourteen painters, young
and not so young, competing
for a year’s scholarship to
Italy sponsored by the ever-
generous Italian Government,


are showing their paces at the
N.S.W. National Gallery.
The successful candidate is
expected, presumably besides
painting and looking at paint-
ings, “to make some endeavor
to become acquainted with the
Italian language” (“si” is a very
good word, and so is “quanto”
and so is “vino” ; and “train,”
if anybody is bothered by it,
is simply “traino”), and it is to
be hoped that anybody seeing
their paintings will similarly
endeavor to become acquainted
with the semi-abstract or
stylised language in which
most of them paint.
There will be little difficulty
with such paintings as those of
Susan Wright, whose blue race-
meeting and golden merry-go-
round are perfectly recognis-
able in a style probably derived
through Passmore from
Cezanne, and Judith Hoy’s
broader blue “Picnic Races” ;
but you need some time and
patience, after the first response
to a nice expanse of green, to
see how effective a stylisation
Frances Smith has made of
“The Billiard Players” a
subject which could never be
so attractive if treated more
realistically. But surely, judg-
ing by the colored balls, it
should be “The Snooker
Players”?
Dickerson’s huge cartoons,
which one would like to see
compressed into a much smaller
compass, look the same as
ever, as do Margo Lewers’s
slathery but effective city-
scapes ; and there are some
yery striking semi-abstract
landscapes in vivid planes of
color (somewhat resembling
Gleghorn) by Shay Docking.
The scholarship, judged by
Russell Drysdale, was awarded
to Brett Whiteley.
<s► *t*
Annigoni and Others
The first thing you notice
in the Watson’s Bay Wharf
exhibition at Hordern’s,
Sydney, is Pietro Annigoni’s
“Lama”; and indeed it would
be hard to miss, for it has
been most decoratively placed
on an easel with flowers
strewn around the base.
It is only simple bushy trees
and a pale sky—on the surface
a slight subject—yet everything
about it is firmly controlled.
Almost next-door is Esther
Seymour Stevenson’s “Child
and Flowers” (165gns.). Ex-
cept for the luminous' face of
the child and, possibly, the
colors in the flowers, the whole
thing has a posterlike quality,
and there is something wrong
with the line of the table.
The rest of the exhibition is
enormous in size if not in
scope. In watercolors Frederic
Bates has some sensitive and
softly colored “Pelicans and
Reeds”; Norman Lindsay’s
three “Dalliance,” “Fruit”
and “Minstrel” —are, with two
Townshends, outstanding in
this section; and Kenneth
Mac Queen’s “Beach Patterns,”
although too studied in its
circular convolutions to be
classed as a sheer abstract, is
watery, unfettered and pleas-
ant.
There seem to be thousands
of oils. Molly Johnson has a
nice spacious “Wolgan Valley,”
Lance Solomon’s “Lisarow
“Just a reminder that I object to being called a mug!”
Way” is dusky and cool, and
Norman Lindsay’s oil of “The
Bathers” is a glowing study of
the nude. Other painters in-
clude Murch (trees and
swimmers), Rhys Williams
(“Afternoon, Wiseman’s
Ferry” is pleasant), Adrian
Feint, John Loxton and
Graeme Inson.
❖ *l*
Ten-guinea Paintings
Two exhibitions are showing
simultaneously at David
Jones’ gallery, Sydney: Hay-
ward Veal in the “Walk”
gallery, and a mixed collection
of 10-guinea-and-under paint-
ings in the gallery proper.
Some of Veal’s paintings are
disappointingly amorphous this
year—he seems to be trying to
catch in oils the evanescent
effects of light and shade and
weather that can only be
trapped in the swifter medium
of watercolor —but others,
where there is some substance,
as in “Late Afternoon, Paris”
and “Pont Neuf,” are very
pleasant and sensitive impres-
sions.
The 10-guinea paintings are
usually rushed by buyers and
no doubt will be again this
year. One incredible bargain
is a small Percy Lindsay oil, up
for resale, from his later days
on the Hawkesbury River;
and two Townshends, which
could stand bigger frames, are
also fantastically cheap.
Jean Derrin’s watercolor of
shady trees and beach
umbrellas that look like dancing
flowers makes a statement
about the charm of Sydney
beaches that a lot of artists
have been trying to express for
a long time.
Films
“Danger Within”
The British, who have pro-
duced almost all the best
escape-films set in p.-0.-w.
camps, have here struck
another rich vein of excite-
ment and ingenuity. The story
concerns the ceaseless activities
of an escape-committee in an
Italian camp and, especially
in the later phases, their
efforts to track-down a traitor
in their midst. The net closes
around the traitor in con-
junction with an audacious
breakout in daylight during a
theatrical performance, and
the denouement is wrapped in
a very neat piece of poetic
justice. Character-limning is
first-class, action brisk and
humor in the best chiacking
mode.
As the senior British officer
who subordinates his own
determination to escape to the
responsibility he owes his
troops, Bernard Lee is wholly
convincing. Richard Todd is
well in character as the impa-
tient, leash-straining colonel in
charge of escape-activities;
and Richard Attenborough, as
a quiet-spoken captain with
a lot of inner strength, is out-
standing among the many
others who lend full credi-
bility to the doings.
At Sydney Embassy.
❖ ❖
“Some Came Running”
This overlong but moder-
ately entertaining version of
James Jones’s novel about a
soldier-author returning from
the war to scandalise his home-
town in lowa and embarrass
his snobbish brother with wild
conduct and a preference for
dubious friends is splashed
with rather gaudy colors on a
big canvas.
Director Vincente Minnelli
gets his best effects, despite
some melodrama, in a frenetic
final sequence in which a
crazed, jealous lover stalks the
ex-soldier and a fickle ex-girl-
friend through a crowded fair,
intent on murder.
Frank Sinatra manages to
wring some credibility from the
role of the central character,
and Dean Martin turns-in a
neat performance as a whisky-
swilling poker-player who
takes a doctor’s death-sentence
with the philosophy proper to
a good gambler; but Arthur
Kennedy, as the brother, twice
gives sharp notice that he is
the best actor in the cast.
Shirley MacLaine wins sym-
pathy for the floozie who
bravely tries to hide her
despair at losing the one love
of a pleasure-mad life —this
despite clothes that make her
something of a caricature.
At Sydney St. James.
• * *
Other Sydney first releases:
“The Hound of the Basker-
villes” (Esquire), a bellow-
dramatic version of the old
Conan Doyle mystery, with
Peter Cushing, as a hungry-
looking Sherlock, firing deduc-
tions and elementary-my-dear-
Watsons like a well-oiled
automatic, and Andre Morell
as the admiring doc. ; and
“That Kind of Woman’’ (Prince
Edward), which takes about
80 minutes longer than neces-
sary for Sophia Loren to
decide to dice a tycoon
(George Sanders) who has
been keeping her in sin and
sables.


the
H
Facts
ere
are
on
«
f
» .. .
$ it
I
A,
- the Choice of the Experienced Man
on the Land for all Water Supply Needs
PROOF of the overall SUPERIORITY of Steel
Pipe over other types has long been established
—is still being established—on the basis of:
_★ COSTS LESS—prices include all necessary couplings.
★ Not subject to damage by termites or rodents.
★ When laid above ground, minimum possibility of damage
by stock or fire.
★ No deterioration from sunlight.
'fa Pressure capacity far greater than most other types.
★ Pressure ratings unaffected by atmospheric temperature
variations.
★ Less likelihood of damage during installation, storing
and handling.
★ Intrinsic structural strength readily enables overhead,
vertical or building installations to be made with a
minimum of support.
These are the facts that have guided so many
shrewd buyers for so many years .
For OVERALL Performance and Satisfaction, SPECIFY
STEEL PIPE and ORDER Steel Pipe from your local
Hardware Store, Pastoral House
STEWARTS AND LLOYDS (distributors) PTY. LTD.
Branches: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong, Geelong, Launceston,
Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs. Agencies: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie.
SSA 1.59


m
innnnn'
ANNUAL REPORT
of the
AUSTRALIAN COASTAL SHIPPING COMMISSION
operating as
THE AUSTRALIAN NATIONAL LINE
The Australian National Line is managed by the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission, which
was formed three years ago as a business undertaking. The Commission enjoys no privileges or
advantages over other Australian Shipping organisations. It pays Company and other taxation in
the same way as they do. It is purely a trading enterprise.
The Third Annual Report of the Commission which was tabled by the Minister for Shipping
and Transport, Senator Shane Paltridge, in Parliament on the Bth October, 1959, discloses these
facts of public interest.
THE FLEET
At 30th June, 1959, the Australian National Line fleet totalled 49 ships of 303,753 tons deadweight. All but four of these
vessels were built in Australian shipyards.
.V'V yMi-
NEW SHIPS
Four new vessels —three bulk cargo carriers and one general cargo vessel—went into service during the year, replacing
older, less efficient ships. Four more vessels were being built in Australia—two ferry vessels for service to Tasmania
and two bulk cargo carriers. All will be operating by the end of 1960.
WHAT THE FLEET CARRIED
Total cargo for the year was 4,980,861 tons. This included 4,921,344 tons carried on the Australian coast, an increase
on the previous year’s figures. The major portion comprised bulk cargoes, principally ironstone and coal, which rose to
4,005,255 tons, considerably more than last year.
SEAROAD SERVICE
The new passenger and car ferry “Princess of Tasmania” inaugurated the “Searoad Service” between Victoria and
Tasmania on 2nd October this year. A cargo ferry, “Bass Trader,” which is now under construction, will join the
service in the latter part of next year.
FINANCE
When the Commission was established in October, 1956, it was allotted by the Treasury sufficient resources to acquire
42 existing ships and to provide a small amount of operational funds. Since then', without increasing its capital, it has paid
£8,694,382 for new ships, has provided £2,753,018 for Company tax, and has declared dividends to the Treasury of £2,394,447.
\I/
THE YEAR'S RESULTS
After making all due provisions, including £1,258.503 for depreciation, a profit of £2,091,201 was earned during the year.
Of this, £1,191,367 will be absorbed by Company tax. The amount available for distribution was £1,046,458, from which
£985,507 will be paid to the Treasury in dividend at the rate of 6% per annum, the same as for the preceding two
years, and £50,000 transferred to Reserves.
SERVING 59
AUSTRALIAN PORTS


Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax" Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771—8 W 8088
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
H. C. Sleigh, Ltd.
T ately featured prominently in the
financial press in connection with its
three-stage, unsuccessful bid for Adelaide
Steam (and a later bid for Accommo-
dation Australia, Ltd.), H. C. Sleigh is
principally an importer and distributor
of petroleum products, marketed through-
out the Commonwealth (except W.A.)
under the familiar Golden Fleece brand.
At the close of last financial year there
were 1462 (up 152) service-stations sell-
ing exclusively Golden Fleece products.
The co. also operates successful
shipping, export and merchandising de-
partments. There are two ocean-going
tankers in service, and a third one is
under construction. Yet another tanker
is held on long-term charter. The ship-
ping department maintains valuable
agency connections. The export and
merchandising sections conduct a large
and profitable business in primary and
manufactured products.
A measure of H. C. Sleigh’s rapid
growth is the swelling of its paid-up
capital by £6,170,562 (or about seven-
and-a-half times) in the 12 years from
1947 to 1959.
Although profits did not match the
preceding term’s record level, the year
ended June 30, 1959, was a successful one.
Despite very intense competition, turn-
over of all petroleum products was
8,704,000 gallons higher at 132,910,000
gallons. The volume of sales through
service-stations was described as “most
gratifying” (although prices were re-
duced), but no figures are disclosed. The
volume of aviation-fuel supplied to the
R.A.A.F. and R.A.N. was said to be
“satisfactory.”
Sales of lubricating-oils and greases
showed a decided upward trend. The total
volume of lubricating-oil sales exceeded
4,500,000 gallons. A number of useful
contracts were secured, including de-
liveries to the P.M.G. and Departments
of Works, Civil Aviation, Supply,
National Development and Interior. All
buses operated by the N.S.W. Govern-
ment are lubricated with Golden Fleece
products. The co. also supplies trans-
former-oil to the Sydney County Council
and the Electricity Commission of Vic-
toria.
The most important development in
the co.’s shipping section was the laying
of the keel of a new 27,500-ton tanker at
Glasgow. Delivery is expected in March,
1961. Foreign-agency contacts continued
to grow. However, the trade with New
Zealand, carried on by the subsidiary’s
(H.C.S. Coasters Pty.) M.V. Abel Tasman,
declined, due to currency problems. In
general, shipping income was lower,
primarily because of the very low world
freight-rates on tanker-fleets.
Export-income was also smaller, the
result of lower world prices for wool
and other primary produce. This was
coupled with the loss of certain regular
British business to European suppliers,
as the economic effects of the European
Common Market began to spread. These
economic trends, adverse to Australian
primary-produce exporters, may become
more pronounced as further protection
is sought by the largely Government-
subsidised French agriculture.
On the brighter side of H. C. Sleigh’s
export business were several new long-
term contracts for coal-shipments to
Japan, Hong Kong and other East Asian
countries.
All in all, the trading-profit for 12
months ended June 30, 1959, edged down
by £361,530 to £2,028,167, including
£4442 income from investments in other
cos. Net profit was £153,881 down at
£1,212,141:
Parent and Subsidiaries. '
f —* Divs. —>
Pref. To Re- Re-
Jne., Profit. 5 p.e. —* —Ord. N serves. serves.*
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
Share premiums, £114,050 .. . .'
Profit sale assets. £4319 ..
Tax underprovided, £3056 ..
To insurance res., £14,081 .. .. 1,411,668
’56.. 608,590 30,000 264,207
To staff fund, £lO,OOO
W/off share exes., £18,750 .. ..
Share premiums, £191,860 .. ..’
To insurance reserve. £16.864
Loss sale assets, £26,405 .. .. |
P- c - to s^n
’57..1,077,054 39,000 121=400,843 637,211 f iOdIOOU
W/off goodwill, £34,098 ..
W/off share exes., £16,250 .. ~.
To staff fund, £15,000
Profit sale assets, £3099 .. ..'
Tax overprovided, £13,603 ..
To insurance reserve, £24,866
To shipping reserve, £lOO,OOO .. I. „ ,
’58..1,366,022 39,000 121=587,041 739,981 \
Share premiums capitalised, £485,172
Share exes, written-off, £5030
Goodwill written-off, £26,276
To insurance Reserve, £19,667 ..’
Profit sale assets, £264
Tax overprovided, £27,992 ..
To shipping reserve, £170,223 ..
’59..1,212,141 44,417 121=641,028 526,696
Share exes, written-off, £14,036 ..
* Subject to intangibles, £335,529 at 30/6/’59.
The profit was struck after allowing for
minority interests and providing £820,450
(down £232,903) for tax and £656,000
(up £34,907) for depreciation. On the
figures disclosed, the tax-provision
appears to be substantially above require-
ments at current rates. However, in view
of the diversified nature of the co.’s activi-
ties, and other complicating factors, only
a rough estimate is possible.
On March 20, 1959, pref.-divs. were
fixed unconditionally at p.c. p.a. Pre-
viously the rate was 5 p.c., participating
to 6} p.c. provided ords. received 10 p.c.
or more. The ord. div. last year remained
unchanged at p.c. (No divs. were
paid on deferred shares which only rank
for | p.c. div. for every 1 p.c. in excess of
15 p.c. paid on ords., and do not rank
for return of capital until after ordinary
shareholders have received 50s. per
20 s. share). Total visible reserves
(including provision for shipping
contingencies, £270,223) and undistri-
buted profits at June 30, 1959, totalled
£3,261,727, subject to £335,529 intan-
gibles.
After satisfying the pref.-div. require-
ments, last year’s earning-rate on the
paid-up ord. capital was equivalent to
22.8 p.c., compared with 28.3 p.c. in 1958.
The highlight of H. C. Sleigh’s capital-
changes for the year was the issue of
500,000 6y p.c. 20s. prefs. in May, 1959,
bringing the pref. issue up £1,100,000,
and making total paid-up capital
£6,970,562:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Paid capital— 1957. 1958. 1959.
Preference .. £600,000 £600,000 £1,100,000
Ordinary .. 8,504,640 5,128,222 5,128,222
Deferred .. 742,340 742,340 742,340
Reserves .. 2,165,850 2,530,921 3,261,727
Advance share
premiums . . - 306,411
Outside interests 3,636 3,626 3,627
Mortgages .. 1,673,144 521,940 537,000
Notes .. .. 500,000 500,000 1,725,644
Overdraft .. 453,150 1,138,549 1,011,370
Creditors .. 3,009,589 3,366,073 3,447,525
Staff funds .. 28,370 58,931
Tax provision.. 888,093 1,221,141 1,012,027
Final divs. .. 276,595 404,298 345,431
£13,817,037 £16,185,480 £18,680,255
Freeholds .. 3,402,724 TS ’ 4,457,306 5,872,413
Leaseholds .. 380,065 554,853 622,086
Plant, etc. . . 5,540,622 5,853,792 6,292,351
Shares other cos. 27,976 248,264 247,136
Stocks .. 1,923,468 2,014,628 2,228,188
Debtors .. 2,212,279 2,735,468 3,082,552
Intangibles .. 329,903 321,169 335,529
£13,817,037 £16,185,480 £18,680,255
In March, 1959, each 20s. ord. was split
into four ss. units. After closing
the year’s accounts, the co. issued
5,483,092 ss. ords. at Is. 3d. premium,
bringing-in share-capital of £1,370,773
and share-premiums of £342,693. The
issue was made on the basis of
one for each five ords. and four
shares for each five options and/or con-
vertible second-series notes held.
The principal additions to long-term
liabilities were £1,225,644 unsecured
notes, and £306,411 advance share-
premiums arising from the note issue.
The 20s. notes were allotted in December,
1958. Each note will be automatically
converted to four ss. ords. on June 30,
1965. The advance share-premium of
ss. collected on the application for each
note and paid in anticipation of this


A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. T. NEVITT A. C. DRAPER, \ W. C . DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Fife Buildlnr
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 (4 Tines) P.O. Box No. 1887 XV
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
113 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. BE 5771-3-3
406 COEEINS STREET, MELBOURNE. 61-3089, 67-5080
Cables and Telegrams: “Ralphking” Sydney and Melbourne
Branches at Grafton and Armidale
conversion is convenient interest-free
finance and will be carried as a long-term
liability, becoming part of reserves on
the conversion-date.
Freeholds increased by £1,415,107 to
£5,872,413, leaseholds by £67,233 to
£622,086 and plant, etc., by £438,559 to
£6,292,351. The book-values rose after
a heavy depreciation charge against
profits (£656,000). Visible capital-expen-
diture for the year was £2,576,899. Total
depreciation and amortisation provisions
written-off to date amounted to £3,337,364
since the date of acquisition of the fixed
assets concerned.
At June 30, 1959, net tangible assets
were £9,630,000, giving a backing of
£8 15s. for the 20s. prefs. and Bs. 4d. for
the ss. ords. The current-asset ratio was
about 0.94 to 1.
Last week the 5s ords. changed hands
at 20s. 3d., yielding 3.1 p.c. This seemed
to be a fair price to pay for Sleigh’s
dynamic scrip. The notes fetched 61s. 6d.,
while sellers wanted 51s. for the options.
The 20s. prefs. could be bought for
20s. 6d., yielding 6.3 p.c.
Berlei United, Ltd.
TPhe Berlei group is a well-known manu-
facturer of popular foundation-
garments. Its products are marketed
throughout Australia and are exported
overseas.
The group comprises Berlei United,
Ltd. (which is purely a holding-co.), five
subsidiaries and one associated co. [Berlei
(N.Z.) Ltd.]. The subsidiaries are: Berlei,
Ltd., Sydney; Berlei (U.K.), Ltd.,
London; Berlei Pty., Melbourne;
Warner’s “Le Gant” Pty., Sydney ; and
Berlei Staff Provident Management Pty.,
Sydney.
From 1952 to 1957 the co. enjoyed a
steady growth in its operations and
profits, building-up a reputation for high-
quality products and skilful and success-
ful management. In 1957 Berlei made a
one-for-four bonus issue, following a
two-for-five bonus handout in 1953.
However, since 1958 earnings have
dropped, in spite of substantial increases
in turnover, mainly because of more
difficult trading conditions and rising
operating-costs.
In 1957-58 sales increased by £602,961
to £5,049,567, but net earnings dropped
by £15,739 to £256,497. The trend was
continued last year.
The results of the operating-cos. for
1958-59 year were disappointing in some
respects. Sales showed increases in Aus-
tralia and U.K., rising by £56,759 to
£5,106,326. However, in both countries
higher costs absorbed proportionally
more of sales-revenue, and the resulting
net profits were lower than in the three
preceding years.
Trading conditions were patchy. Turn-
over was brisk in the first half of the
last term in Australia, but business
became much slower in the final six
months. In U.K. a lifting of h.-p. restric-
tions in the autumn of 1958 caused
some diversion of spending away from
non-durable consumer-goods such as
clothing.
Moreover, due to the fact that the
U.K. Budget-year does not correspond
with Berlei’s trading-year, last term’s
profits had to bear a considerable portion
of the higher U.K. profits-tax, levied on
the preceding term’s earnings. The
adverse effect was slightly cushioned by
the 6d.-in-the-pound reduction in the
standard income-tax rate. Last year the
U.K. company’s tax represented p.c.
of pre-tax earnings, compared with 45
p.c. before the change.
Keen competition in the foundation-
garments industry necessitated consider-
able outlays on advertising and sales-
promotion, reducing earnings. To rectify
the profit-position, Berlei made some
price-increases. The co.’s market was
widened by the inclusion of new lines,
including the new “Maidenform”
brassieres.
In the year ended June 30, 1959, the
co. earned a trading profit of £545,997
(down £36,255). An additional £2llO
came from investments: —-
Berlei, Ltd.
f— Dividends
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.e. , Ord. —— N serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
Parent and Subsidiaries.f
Added on consolidation, £198,976 . . 549,541
Less net increase intangibles, £19,188 530,353
Tax underprovided, £560 .. .. 529,793
Unexplained addition, £919 . . . . 530,712
’55..185,500 4000 10 p.c. = 65,921 115,579 646,291
To Stall fund, £13,308 .. .. 632,983
Tax underprovided, £438 .. .. 632,545
Establishment expenses, £lB4l .. 630,704
W/off Sarong investment, £5llB . . 625,586
Add net reduction intangibles, £6341 631,927
Unexplained reduction, £2159 .. 629,768
’56..257,451 4000 10 p.c. = 66,546 186,905 816,673
Revaluation assets (parent), £191,298 1,007,971
Reserves capitalised, £166,365 .. 841,606
Tax overprovided, £1979 . . . . 843,585
Royalties overprovided, £9755 .. 853,340
W/ofl Sarong investment, £5OOO .. 848,340
Less added intangibles, £165,288 .. 683,052
Unexplained reduction, £5159 .. 677,893
To staff fund, £24,255 653,038
’57..272,236 4000 10 p.c. = 74,864 193,372 847,010
Proceeds assignment licence, £5935.. 852,945
Tax overprovided, £7972 .. .. 860,917
Revaluation assets (U.K.), £21,822 882,739
To staff fund, £37,725 .. ~. 845,014
W/off Sarong investment, £5OOO .. 840,014
Add net reduction intangibles, £5OOl 845,015
Unexplained reduction reserves, £7432 837,583
*58..256,497 4000 10 p.c. = 83,182 169,314 1,006,898
Tax overprovided, £7997 .. ..1,014,895
To staff fund, £42,231 .. .. 972,664
Increase in intangibles, £225 .. 972,439
Unexplained addition reserves, £2576 975,015
Share premiums, £62,500 .. ..1,037,515
Less adjustment minority interest,
, „ £6371 1,031,144
’59..233,167 4000 10 p.c. = 83,182 145,985 1,177,129
* After deducting intangibles. f Less proportion
of profit due to outside interests.
Net profit for the year was £23,330 lower
at £233,167. The result was obtained
after writting-off £75,528 (up £4902) for
depreciation and paying £24,701 interest
on loan-capital and £4812 directors’ fees.
Provision for taxation seems a little high
at £192,690 (down £20,279), but here the
picture is somewhat clouded by several
transfers and adjustments.
The earning-rate on ordinary paid
capital was 21.5 p.c., after deducting the
unchanged 8 p.c. pref.-divs. requirements
(£4000). The ordinary dividend was
steady at 10 p.c. (absorbing £83,182) and
was comfortably covered by the earnings.
Reserves received £145,985 and
benefited by £7997 tax overprovision
and £62,500 share premiums.
The reserves were also augmented by
an undisclosed net increase of £2576,
but were decreased by £42,231 (up
£4506) transferred to staff fund, £225 net
increase in intangibles and £6371 adjust-
ment of the minority interest in undistri-
buted profits in the previous term. Not
included in the reserves was £50,000
stock devaluation provision, which was
deducted from the book-value shown.
On June 30, 1959, £250,000 5± p.c.
unsecured notes fell due for conversion,
on the basis of 7s. f.-p. ords. for each
£lOO note, at 6s. Bd. a share premium.
All noteholders exercised their options,
increasing paid-up ordinary capital by
£187,500 to £1,019,325, and a share-
premium reserve of £62,500 was
created: —•
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1957. 1958. 1959.
Pref £50,000 £50,000 £50,000
Ord 831,825 831,825 1,019,325
Reserves .. 847,010 1,006,898 1,177,129
Minority interest 154,521 169,100 181,596
Mortgages,, etc. . . 205,000 197,500 190,000
Notes . . . . 250,000 250,000
Overdraft, etc. .. 214,727 162,021 291,595
Creditors . . .. 386,057 448,987 538,707
Tax provision . . 345,587 380,970 331,953
Final divs. .. 47,467 47,477 47,732
£3,332,194 £3,544,778 £3,828,037
Freeholds .. 554,365 570,816 613,570
Plant, etc. . . 349,918 385,992 405,987
Investments .. 53,108 47,016 53,644
Stocks . . .. 1,653,880 1,846,775 2,090,454
Book-debts . . 687,666 646,062 641,346
Cash, etc. . . 33,257 48,117 23,036
£3,332,194 £3,544,778 £3,828,037
Visible expenditure on fixed assets last
term was £138,277.
Since the close of the financial year, an
independent valuation of the co.’s free-
hold properties in Australia was made.
The value set was £463,229, compared
with the balance-sheet figure of £284,558.
However, there is no immediate intention
of adjusting the book-values concerned.
This may be saved for a possible future
bonus-issue.
Trading stocks were £243,679 higher at
£2,090,454 (net of £50,000 devaluation
provision). The increase was partly due
to the need for providing immediate
delivery of orders over virtually the entire
range of products, in view of brisk
competition in the industry."
Current ratio was 2.3:1. Net tangible
assets backing worked out at £3l 12s. Bd.,
for the prefs. and about £l. 10s. for the
ords.
At the last sale the 20s. ords. changed
hands at 58s. 3d. a unit, yielding 3.4 p.c.
on the basis of a 10 p.c. dividend.


Missing Friend
TO GERALD VINCENT, ELLIS formerly
of Bell Street Heidelberg.—-TAKE
NOTICE that your wife EDNA EDITH
ELLIS has instituted proceedings against
you for Divorce on the ground of three
years’ desertion Unless you enter an
appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office
of the Supreme Court in Melbourne on
or before the 30th day of November
1959 the case may proceed in your
absence and you may be ordered to pay
costs If you intend to defend you must
also file an answer in the said office
on or before the 10th day of December
1959.—RODDA BALLARD & VROLAND,
Solicitors for Petitioner.
INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant
supervision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Est. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY ... SMitt
108 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - MU 4081
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
PACIFIC ISLAND MINES LIMITED
(INCORPORATED IN THE TERRITORY OF PAPUA)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £500,000
Issued Capital: 201 Ordinary Shares of £5 each, £lOO5.
To he issued: 665 Ordinary Shares of £5 each, £3,325.
Held in Reserve: 94,134 Shares of £5 each, £470,670.
Now Available for Public Subscription
5,000 ORDINARY SHARES OF £5 EACH—£2S,OOO
Minimum Subscription on which Directors
may proceed to allotment, £15,000. ,
OBJECTS OF THE ISSUE: The Company has decided to launch its
operations by investigating extensive mineral deposits known to exist
on Misima Island, in the Territory of Papua, some 650 miles North-east
of Cairns, Queensland.
The gold lodes at Misima are the largest and most extensive yet dis-
covered in Papua—New Guinea and gold to the order of £3,000,000 was
produced prior to World War 11.
The Bureau of Mineral Resources, a division of the Commonwealth
Department of National Development, commenced a geological survey
of the Island in May this year. Application has been made to the
Department of Lands, Surveys and Mines, Port Moresby, to carry out a
detailed programme of diamond and churn drilling on behalf of this
Company.
As large areas are suitable for open-cut mining, it is the intention
of the Company to employ the most efficient earth-moving equipment
available.
DIRECTORS
GEORGE WILLARD NOE, B.Sc., C.E. (University of Montana, U.S.A.),
Civil Engineer, Chairman, Herbert Avenue, Newport, N.S.W.
NORMAN ARTHUR KINGSBURY WALLIS, Timber and Forestry
Executive, “Trees,” Plateau Road, Avalon, N.S.W.
ERNEST ROY HUDSON, 8.A., LL.B., Company Director, 16 O’Connell
Street, Sydney.
RUPERT VICTOR BRIERLEY, F.A.S.A., Management Consultant, 18
Corona Avenue, Roseville, N.S.W.
KEITH HAMILTON WATERHOUSE, Company Director, “Rawdon-
croft,” 28 Collins Road, St. Ives, N.S.W.
UNDERWRITING BROKERS
LESLIE D. PHILIPS & KITCHEN, 13-15 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
(Underwriters of the Minimum Subscription of 3,000 shares .)
’ BANKERS
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, King and George Streets, Sydney.
The requirements of the Companies Act relating to Prospectuses have
not been fully complied with in this Abridged Prospectus, and applica-
tions will proceed only upon one of the forms of application annexed
to a printed copy of the full Prospectus, which is dated October. 19,
1959. A copy of the full prospectus has been filed for registration with
the Registrar-General of the State of New South Wales. The Registrar-
General takes no responsibility as to its contents.
Prospectus and application forms available from —
PACIFIC ISLAND MINES LIMITED
Registered Offices: C/- C. E., Foxall & Co., 117 Pitt Street, Sydney, or
C/- E. A. James & Co., Cuthbertson Street, Port Moresby.
Or the Underwriters'.
LESLIE D. PHILIPS & KITCHEN, 13-15 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
H 0.4.82
Castlemaine Perkins, Ltd.
HThe popular beer in Queens-
land is either Fourex
(XXXX in red ) or Bulimba. The
one is brewed by Castlemaine
Perkins, Ltd., the other by
rival Queensland Brewery, Ltd.
Pubs displaying four red
crosses over the door (indicat-
ing Fourex on tap) are known
in the idiom of Banana-benders
as “red-backs,” but the stuff
they dispense holds little venom
(certainly no spiders, and very
few pink elephants) and lends
itself to pleasant drinking and
few hangovers.
An early entrant to the
Queensland scene, Castlemaine
Perkins began brewing more
than 70 years ago (1887) —the
trade-name had its origin long
before, in medieval Europe,
when it was the practice of
English monks, then famous
for their brewing prowess, to
indicate quality by marking
barrels XX, XXX, etc.
Today Castlemaine Perkins
owns a string of hotels (the
number isn’t given) and a
brewery at Milton (Brisbane).
The brewery at Toowoomba
was closed last year—“we have
been setting an increasingly
high standard of quality at
Milton, and to have produced
a beer equal to our Brisbane
product at Toowoomba would,
in view of the condition of our
brewery there, have involved
the company in a heavy outlay
for new buildings, plant and
equipment which could in no
circumstances be justified, and
which expenditure could be far
more profitably employed
from a remunerative point of
view in expanding the activities
of our undertaking as a whole
in other directions.”
The Darling Downs and its
environs are now supplied
direct from Milton, and, judg-
ing by progressive expansion
of sales since the closure (turn-
overs are not given), the move
has had no deleterious effects.
No loss is expected in realisa-
tion of Toowoomba’s assets ;
rather the co. anticipates
centralisation to bring sub-
stantial savings in operating-
costs.
Such savings, if realised,
come at an opportune time.
Beer-consumption has tended to
level-off in the last year or so.
The spectacular post-war rise
is over and any increase of
future profits will depend on —
provided drinking-habits don’t
change—lower excise, greater
efficiency in cost-control and,
in the long-term, population-
growth.
Presented in strict accord
with the best conservative
tradition, Castlemaine’s
accounts give but a vague idea
of the co.’s true earning-
power:
Jly., Profit. Dividends. Reserves.
£ £ £
From inner res., £lOO,OOO 1,218,998
’53..214,011 8 p.e.=120,000 K o ln = O Q
Provident fund, £2500 .. S ’ ’
’54..323,067 10 p.e.=150,000 Vi iqi 070
Provident fund, £2500 •• S ' ’
’55..336,639 12 p.c.=:180,000 \ . 91 -
Provident fund, £2500 . . ) ’
Revaluation freeholds,
£908,950 .. .. 2,544,165
’56.-337,691 12 p.c.=180,000 2,701,856
Res. capitalised, £900,000 1,801,856
’57..378,928 10 p.c.=240,000 1,940,784
From provision renova-
tions, contingencies, etc.,
£lOO,OOO .. .. 2,040,784
’58..392,148 10 p.c.=:240,000 2,192,932
’59..403,298 10 p.e.=240,D00 2,356,230
As claimed, net profit climbed
from £143,364 to £214,011
over the four years to 1953,
rose by 50 p.c. in the follow-
ing year, and last term reached
a record £403,298. In the same
period, inner reserves and ex-
cess provisions totalling
£600,000 were brought to light.
Latest result is reckoned after
setting aside an undisclosed
amount for taxation and con
tingencies and £161,969 (up
£20,671) for depreciation, and
is equivalent to 16.8 p.c., on
share-capital, compared with
16.3 p.c., 15.7 p.c. and 14
p.c. back to 1956.
The dividend at 10 p.c. took
£240,000, and visible reserves,
benefiting undistributed profits,
rose by £163,298 to £2,356,230.
Held at 8 p.c. for all but four
of the 22 years to 1953, the
div.-rate was raised to 10 p.c.
in 1954 and to 12 p.c. in 1955.
Shareholders moved further
into the picture in the 1957
term, when paid capital, steady
at £1,500,000 for 16 years, was
raised to £2,400,000 by what
was, in effect, a three-for-five
bonus issue financed by a con-
servative revaluation of free-
holds. The div.-rate was
dropped to its present 10 p.c.
level after the gift issue.
Testing Castlemaine’s
adaptability, recent years have
brought about radical changes
in the strucvure of hotel-trading.
The more liberal licensing of
clubs has provided the major
challenge, but this has been
met and overcome as evinced
by increased profits. The co.
has spent considerable sums to
repair and recondition its
hotel-properties, and the now-
more-attractive taverns are
holding their own against
stepped-up competition.
But success in this field
brought Castlemaine little re-
spite. Last term the Queens-
land Licensing Commission


INVEST
WITH
ABSOLUTE
SECURITY
TO EARN
Is i
m
PER ANNUM FOR 5 YEARS
HUNT BROS.
: SECURITIES: LTD.,
the finance company of
the HUNT BROS. Group of
Companies. Successfully-
linked for 38 years as
Metropolitan Dealers for
FORD
OF AUSTRALIA
INTEREST RATES:
B°o PER ANNUM
FOR 5 YEARS
3 & 4 years . 7\°o
2 years 7%
12 months .. . 6%
9 months ... . . si°o
6 months 5%
INTEREST PAYABLE
QUARTERLY
E ree of Exchange
A FIRST
MORTGAGE
INVESTMENT
with an
asset backing of nearly
THREE POUNDS FOR ONE!
Application for official list-
ing of long term on the
Sydney Stock Exchange will
be made.
TRUSTEES FOR DEBENTURE HOLDERS:
NATIONAL MUTUAL LIFE NOMINEES PTY. LTD.
BANKERS FOR THE ISSUE:
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
Write or phone for a full Prospectus and application
form to the Underwriting Brokers:
ROLAND WALTON and COMPANY
SM& &&>•**■ i sajs-hJi, ••
• Or any Member of the Sydney Stock Exchange
• Any Branch of the Commercial Bank of Australia Limited in
N.S.W. and Australian Capital Territory • or direct from:-
Hum
(SECURITIES)
$
BROS
LIMITED
Crofts Avenue, Hurstville, N.S.W. Phone: 57.0321
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably ' efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
tU>. Makers of Classifiers,
Water JTilters, Steam Valves,
eta,
requisitioned the demolition of
hotels at Kedron, Camp Hill
and Balmoral. Promptly com-
plied with, the order was
executed, and now, drawing on
hidden strengths, the co. is
replacing old with new.
Modern hotels are in course of-
erection, and contractual debts
owing thereon were materially
reduced during the year,
Reflecting this activity, as
well as the modernisation of
old, and introduction of new,
plant to the Milton brewery,
book-value of brewery, hotels,
etc. rose by £209,345 to
£5,063,223 the co. is now
turning out Carbine stout in
addition to its Fourex beer,
and directors expect that, “like
its equine namesake, it soon
will be considered first in the
field”:
1958. 1959.
Paid capital .. £2,400,000 £2,400,000
Reserves . . 2,192,932 2,350,230
Prov. renovations,
contingencies,
etc 471,112 483,027
Creditors, etc. .. 559,641 580,789
Final div. .. 120,000 120,000
£5,743,685 £5,940,046
Brewery, hotels,
etc 4,853,878 5,063,223
Shares other cos. 11,183 11,183
Stock . . . . 415,397 329,685
Debtors .. .. 312,319 383,816
Cash, bonds, etc. 150,908 152,139
£5,743,685 £5,940,046
Other than the above, the
balance-sheet shows little
variation from the previous
year. Debtors are up £71,497
at £383,816,- and stock, at
£329,685, is down £85,712, but
working-capital slipped only
£34,132 (last year working-
capital was £198,983). Funds
have been and are likely to
remain equal to demands made
upon them. The co. is in fine
financial fettle, and directors
do not anticipate an early call
on the market for fresh
capital.
Castlemaine’s 10s. shares are
currently fetching 31s. 10d., to
return a yield of 3.1 p.c. from
a 10 p.c. div. Net tangibles are
considerable at 19s. lOd.
Ravenshoe Tin Dredging
TPhe mine is located in the
A tin-bearing lands covering
approximately 856 acres at
Battle and Nettle Creeks be-
tween Mount Garnet and
Ravenshoe in North Queens-
land. In September the Battle
Creek area was estimated to
have a remaining dredging-life
of three to three-and-a-half
years.
The co. has a paid-up capi-
tal of £400,000 in f.-p. 20s.
shares, less £193 calls in
arrear.
Operations commenced in
August, 1957. The first year
resulted in a profit of
£23,200, which was absorbed
by depreciation, dredge-
removal and bucket-suspense
expenses.
Difficult dredging conditions
prevailed during the year
ended June 30, 1959, and
recoveries were lower than
anticipated.
The. ground dredged proved
to contain a large amount of
hard, tough clay, and this had
adversely affected the through-
put.
The dredge was in operation
for 82 p.c. of the possible
working-hours and has been
maintained in good mechani-
cal condition. Tough clay
caused heavy wear to the
digging-end of the dredge, and
provision is being made to
replace the top tumbler and
renew sections of the bucket-
hand.
However, since the close of
the accounts both the dredging
conditions and recoveries are
reported to have improved
considerably.
During the 1958-59 term the
dredge treated 2,344,000 cubic
yards (up 292,000 cubic yards)
for a recovery of 374 tons (up
88 tons) of tin-ore averaging
72 p.c. (up 2 p.c.) metallic tin,
which realised £231,378 (up
£70,495).
Mine-working costs!
amounted to £153,532, or
15.72 d. (up 1.95 d.) a cubic
yard.
Net profit for the year,
transferred to the appropria-
tion amount, was £51,486 (up
£28,286). Depreciation, dredge-
removal and bucket-suspense
absorbed £33,300 (up £10,100),
and £13,539 preliminary ex-
penses were written-off, leav-
ing £4647. undistributed profits.
The co.’s fixed assets (plant,
vehicles, etc.) totalled £666,356.
Current assets were £49,866,
including £9OOB stocks of tin-
ore and £29,032 stores and
goods in transit.
Provisions and liabilities
totalled £56,000, and there
were £437,439 outside credi-
tors (including £298,573 bank
overdraft). The balance-sheet
revealed £125,671 intangible
assets, making the net tangible
backing 12s. lid. a 20s. share.
Last week 17s. 6d was
offered for a 20s. unit.


xLLi
First mortgage debenture stock
«S 0> 'O
SHORT TERM
RETURN UP TO
0
0
PER ANNUM
months
• • •
• • •
3
** • • •
5%
4i%
4%
3i%
lONG TERM
RETURN UR TO
0
0
PER ANNUK
5-10 years 7%
4 . . . 61%
3 . . . 6%
1 . . . 51%
Cumulative stock carrying 65% compounded on
yearly rests with currencies of 5-15 years. Interest
is paid quarterly free of exchange.
Applications must be made on the forms
enclosed in the Prospectus, which can be
obtained from :
ALL MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGE,
COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LTD. OR
GENERAL CREDITS LTD.,
393 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
UNDERWRITERS: J. B. WERE & SON
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Wellington, October 12, 1959.
'T'he outlook for business in
N.Z. during the next 12
months is good.
With higher farm prices, a
general wage-rise and some
tax-cuts there will be more
money about.
Retailers, who have had a
difficult time over the last
year or so, will be helped by
the relaxation of import-
control and by the recent lift-
ing of hire-purchase restric-
tions.
The Minister of Industries
and Commerce, Mr. Hollo-
way, has predicted “a minor
boom” for manufacturers.
They will have ample access
to raw materials and
machinery, he said, and those
who produce a good article
and sell it at a reasonable price
are in for a prosperous time.
The Secretary of Industries
and Commerce, Dr. W. B.
Sutch, has suggested that de-
velopment should be the theme
of the next quarter-century in
N.Z., as security and stability
have been the theme of the
last.
“I am not suggesting that
security and stability should
be thrown overboard,” he said.
“I am suggesting that there
needs to be a strong change in
public opinion in favor of
activities and methods of
administration which give
priority to a rapid and varied
development.”
Dr. Sutch’s remarks some-
times seem to give a preview
of Government thinking, and
the hope has been expressed
that on this occasion they may
presage a more liberal official
attitude toward controls.
There is a great need for
such a change if development
is to go on at a satisfactory
rate.
The president of the Stock
Exchange of N.Z., Mr. J.
Griffiths, who recently returned
from Australia, said that most
Australian businessmen and
sharebrokers were amazed to
hear that the Capital Issues
Committee still functioned in
N.Z. He considered that this
form of control should have
been abolished years ago,- as
it was definitely retarding the
progress of industry.
There have lately been some
signs of an easing of capital-
issues control, though no
change in official policy is
acknowledged. Consent has
been given to a number of new
share-issues ranging from
£lOO,OOO up to £500,000.
Wright Stephenson
Biggest of those issues is
being made by Wright Stephen-
son & Co., which is offering
shareholders 500,000 £1 shares
at 12s. 6d. premiurn in the
rafio Ve *°r *7? s r P. are |
held > or one for each £7 of
In consenting to the issue>
th c ital Is “ ues Committee
a , so aut I ' horised the co , 0 lace
250 000 ordi shares for
overseas currency prim arily in
Amtral j a; for the
use of the
Australian branch of the com-
pany’s business,
jt j s expected that these
shares will be placed at the
equivalent of a N.Z. price of
3 5 s> a s h ar e, issue, to indi-
viduals and concerns who will
retain them as investments.
The co. also has in mind
that at a later date, but not in
this year, it might be possible
to arrange for a small issue of
ordinary shares for offer to
farmer clients in limited par-
cels and at a price close to the
market price at the time of the
issue. If consent to such an
issue is given and the issue is
made, it will be for the pur-
pose of expanding the com-
pany’s connection with farmers
and so improving company
business
„ . ~
The announcement of the
premium and the overseas
placement caused Wright
Stephenson shares to fall
sharply from 435. 6d. to 41s.
(N.Z.), but there was a fairly
quick, partial recovery.
The coming N.Z. issue will
increase paid ordinary capital
to £2,890,480, and the over-
seas placement will take it to
£3,140,480. Conversion of the
current debentures in June,
1963, will add another
£400,000.
, P re ?cot issue will lift
reserve by
and the overseas
placement will add £187,500,
making a total of £785,995
Sooner or later this money will
£° pack s h ar ? -
holders in the form of a scrip
issue.
Wright Stephenson shares
bought now at, say, 425. would
average out after the issue at
40s 6d to y j e i d £4 18s 9d
per cent, from the current 10
p er cent, dividend. Theoreti-
cal value of the rights, ignoring
an y dividend difference, would
be about Bs. (Amounts ex-
pressed in N.Z. currency.)


Memoirs of a
Pioneer Pressman
(Abridged from a book to be published later)
By B. S. BAXTER COOK
(Founder of the Australian Journalists’ Association and No. 1 A.J.A. Gold Medallist)
These memoirs, com-
menced many moons
ago but not completed
until comparatively
.recently, have gradually
developed into more than per-
sonal press reminiscences. As
they have wandered into other
walks of life, the question
arose: What was I to call
them? They were not intended
to be an autobiography. In
the end, I decided that
“Memoirs of a Pioneer Press-
man” was the nearest I could
get to describe what seems to
have developed into a kind of
literary miscellany.
I can say now that once
you get on the track of an
interesting theme a few
impulses in your “memory
bank” may begin to function.
Here is one instance, doubt-
less kept green in my brain-
box by the gossip of my
relatives.
While still at a very tender
age I witnessed a near-tragedy.
Sunday dinner was just served
in our home in Commercial
Road, Prahran, Melbourne,
when my mother glanced
through the window. The
house was built on a corner
block of a side-street nearly
up to the building-line. A
drunken man stood on the
opposite footpath with his
back to us. He was yelling
out some very rude things,
“taking the Lord’s name in
vain,” as my mother expressed
it, and otherwise misbehaving
himself. It was a warm day
and the window was open.
Suddenly my mother seized a
hot potato from the dish and
let fly.
The Lord was on her side.
She did not exactly score a
bull’s-eye, but got an “outer”
which was much more effec-
tive. The potato smashed
against the brick wall close to
the man’s head. He felt the
warmth of the floury missile
as it exploded. With a startled
expression he wiped his hand
across his face, and, apparently
thinking that his brains had
been knocked out, screamed
hysterically to God to forgive
him. “Save me, Lord Jesus
Christ,” he yelled.
In a few moments the
potato pulp had cooled, and
he partly recovered from his
fright. But he had had his
lesson. He staggered off as
fast as his condition permitted.
The last we heard was a very
brave attempt in a faltering
voice to render the hymn
“Nearer My God to Thee.”
Another instance, of a cer-
tain similarity—and no doubt
also kept alive by relatives—-is
my having been sent by Mum
to buy some chops in Sydney
Road, Brunswick (incidentally,
lamb chops at that time were
3d. a pound). I was soon
home again, crying un-
restrainedly.
When I could get my breath,
I blurted out: “The world’s
coming to an end!”
“Stuff and nonsense,” said
my matter-of-fact parent. “Go
back and get those chops!”
“It’s true, it’s true,” I yelled ;
“I heard the ‘Herald’ boy call-
ing out ‘Latest edition. End
of the world.’ ”
It turned out that the
“Herald” had just driven the
“World” —its competitor in the
evening - newspaper field —out
of existence, and a smart sub-
editor had put an appropriate
joke in the headline: “End of
‘The World’.”
That was quite a time ago,
when the daily circulation of
the Melbourne “Herald” was
about 30,000: it is now about
half-a-million. It has grown
fat on the absorption of other
APROPOS THE “DEAD HORSE SCOOP.”
“Is there goin’ to be a fifteenth edition of the ‘ ’Erald?
tonight, Bill?”
“Why, of course there is.”
“How do you know?”
“Why, there’s a big rat been caught in Castlemaine.
I sor the telegram myself just ten minutes ago.”
Bulletin, 9/4/1887. (The gag was originally headed “Newspaper
Enterprise in Melbourne.”)
competitors over the long years
of its existence.
There is a curious aspect of
this progress. There was a
time when the morning news-
papers in Melbourne had the
largest circulations. They
looked with something like
contempt on an evening “rag.”
The public demand then was
undoubtedly in favor of the
morning dailies. I heard the
remark more than once, “Yes,
I saw that in the ‘Herald,’ but
I’ll wait until it’s confirmed
in my morning paper.”
Tt was right back in the year
1889 that I entered the
employment of the “Herald”
as a copyboy, a friend of the
family having said that what-
ever a lad was to become in
life, a knowledge of the city
and its activities was essential.
Later I attained the eminence
of a copy-readers’ boy and
“printer’s devil.” This was, of
course, in the hand-setting days,
and one of my duties was to
take the galley-proofs_ to the
reading staff and, when correc-
tions had been made, take the
proofs to the “Master of the
Chapel.” He was the head,
selected by the compositors
themselves to determine the
individual compositor whose
turn it was to make the
corrections.
If the “comp.” was tem-
porarily absent from his
setting-frame it was my duty
to “call him home.” So there
was I —all of 13 years old —
putting out my chest and shout-
ing, “Come home, Jimmy
Black,” . “Come home, Billy
Muir,” “Come home, Mar-
sorini,” “Come home, Billy
Wood,” “Come home, Jackie
Richards,” and so on as I
moved from frame to frame.
Anyone of them was old
enough to be my father, and
I hesitated about this
familiarity with their Christian-
names at first, but I was assured
it was usual practice.
I did, though, still have a


great fear of S. V. Winter,
whom everybody referred to as
“The Boss.” He was the first
editor I had encountered.
The comps, seemed a merry
body of men. One apparently
had operatic aspirations. On
his way to and from the box
where “copy” had to be picked-
up he would often burst into
refrains from the classics. If
it were a catchy, rhythmical
tune his mates would beat time
with their “sticks” on their
frames (a “stick,” by the way,
was a small adjustable square-
shaped frame in which type
used to be arranged in words
and lines, in those pre-linotype
days).
At length the Boss got sus-
picious of these happy out-
bursts. His room was imme-
diately below that of the
comps. He felt that something
more than a sense of joie de
vivre was responsible, especi-
ally as he got a whiff now and
again that did not seem to have
had its origin in printers’ ink.
He placed a boy at the front
door to report whether there
was any traffic, in working
hours, to and from the Royal
Arcade Hotel opposite. The
boy reported that he had seen
nothing unusual.
But the Boss felt sure that
sheer youthful exuberance
could not be wholly respon-
sible for the condition of the
jolly boys, so he set another
watch.
The solution was simple.
The rear of the “Herald”
building abutted on the yard
of a hotel facing Bourke
Street. At appropriate intervals
a billycan, with cash inside,
was lowered from the upper
story of the “Herald” office
into the backyard of the hotel.
I felt sorry for the comps.,
but they took it as a great
joke.
MR. JUSTICE HODGES.
(Viewed by Low.)
SAMUEL VINCENT
WINTER.
("The first Editor I had
encountered’’ —as Phil May
saw “The Boss.”)
As I had joined the “Herald”
in 1889, and was to remain
in its employment for many
years, it seems appropriate to
include here a brief outline of
its progress.
January 2, 1840, is recorded
as its first appearance. It was a
morning paper called the “Port
Phillip Herald.” The owner was
George Cavanagh. He carried
on for about 16 years, when
some kind of syndicate of legal
men took-over and appointed
F. Sinnett as editor. In 1863
George Collins Levy, C.M.G.,
became editor and proprietor.
Five years later John Halfey
and Samuel Vincent Winter
came into the picture. Halfey,
a wealthy man, had come to
Victoria in 1852. He became
a prominent figure in the
mining world and later a
director of several companies.
Winter was an experienced
journalist and very highly
respected.
The partners lost no time in
vacating the morning-paper
field and bringing out ttie
“Herald” as an evening paper,
It is a remarkable fact that
about a week later a group
of investors promptly jumped
in to bring out another morn-
ing paper. It was called the
“Daily Telegraph” and had an
associated paper, the “Weekly
Times.” Perhaps more remark-
able still, both these papers
were absorbed by the “Herald”
in 1892. The “Herald” closed-
down the “Telegraph,” but
kept the “Weekly Times” alive,
A later rival was a powerful
evening paper, the “Evening
Standard.” But the recovery
from the bursting of the land-
boom had been so slow that
both papers were finding it
, rr f * ~
d,fficult to operate profitably.
In fact, Hetald shares
dropped to as low as four-
pence. An amalgamation of
fhe two papers was arranged,
and it came as a surprise that
it was the Standard that was
to cease publication, despite
that it had the more modern
plant A new company was
1 r r ?fno 'nno 3 noml Cap
of £IOO,UOO.
In 1902 there was another
change, the company becoming
the Herald and Weekly Times,
Ltd. Its capital was £250,000.
In 1958 paid capital totalled
£2,836,240, reserves £3,307,416.
The Melbourne “Herald” and
“Sun” have a combined circu-
lation of about one-
million copies daily.
TV/f'Y first editor on the
“Herald,” Samuel
Vincent Winter, was a
big, heavily-built man,
of forbidding appear-
ance. He had the repu-
tation of being able to
use more spectacular
cuss-words in a given
time without repeating
himself than any other
character of those brave
raw days of the Mel-
bourne press.
I remember an occa-
sion when, as usual, he
was “putting the baby
to bed” (as the old news-
paper phrase has it).
There stood the Boss
intoning “Hurry - up,
please, gentlemen! ” He
always tried to appear
excessively polite when,
in fact, he was all
worked-up over the pro-
spect of not getting to
press in time to catch
the mass of home-going
workers. And then one
of the stone-hands, who
was always very nervous
when the Boss was there,
dropped a “take” of typ«
which he yvas about to fit
into the forme; the result,
a complete “printers’ pie” of
what should have been an
important correction!
The Boss let himself go. He
exploded in a vitriolic volume
which I can only interpret, for
polite society, thus: Clasping
his perspiring temple, he
appealed to the Almighty to
furnish him with an explana-
tion why he had to suffer all
the congenital idiots that were
allowed to encumber God s
£ ood earth.
The day came when the Boss
sent for me. There were, he
J old me > vacancies on the
literary staff. You can have
your choice of being a handy-
> Qy (0 , he sub . edito “ S! or take
tbe brst s j e p S , 0 becoming a
reporter ”
think si j would fer
... .- d ’ ,
„ y J,, N what do
u re^9”
This was a bjt o’f 0 ’ f a poser .
„ was more familiar with the
Deadwood Dicks of the day _
The Ghost of Deadman-S
Gulch, etc.—than the classics.
g ut j h a d sa y something,
i recalled having enjoyed
Scott’s Waverley novels and
Charles Dickens’s works, par-
ticularly David Copperfield ,
whose life somehow reminded
me of some youthful experi-
ences, although I could not
GAY LADS OF THE
VILLAGE.


pinpoint them. Then I sud-
denly thought of Emerson’s
Essays and a treasured volume
of Shakspeare, and....
But the Boss interrupted:
“They’re all right in their way,
but a reporter needs know-
ledge of everyday events. Do
you read the daily papers
carefully?”
“Oh, yes, sir.”
“Very essential,’ 1 he com-
mented. “A reporter must be
always up to date. Here,” he
broke off, passing over a one-
pound bank-note —a big thing
in those days—“go and buy
yourself some good journalis-
tic books.”
I decided to go to Coles’
Book Arcade in Bourke Street.
In a lane leading from an
arcade in Collins Street to Little
Bourke Street were large
panels on the wall of a build-
ing, painted inside of which
were quotations about books
from many famous authors,
such as* Crabbe, Byron,
Shakspeare, etc. They were
instigated by that well-known
picturesque character E. W.
Cole (no relation to the
present-day chain-store Coles).
One quotation that always
stuck in my mind was:
“The first step of know-
ledge is to know that we are
ignorant.”—Cecil.
In that frame of mind I
passed through the menagerie
with the monkeys and fish-
pools in the centre, to the
Bourke Street frontage, where
two little mechanical sailor-
boys labored . incessantly to
wind-over advertising flaps on
a cylinder.
I appealed to the man
behind the desk. Had he any
works on journalism?
“Afraid we haven’t,” he
said.
Picking up a Charles Annan-
dale Dictionary I became
interested in the appendices
relating to ‘‘Noted Names in
Fiction”; “Mythology”; “List
of English and Americdh
Writers”; “Pronouncing Voca-
bulary of Ancient Names”,
“Words, Phrases and Note-
worthy Sayings” . . . Cecil was
right. The profundity of my
ignorance suddenly struck me
like a cannonball. I decided
on that one ; then I spotted
a Cassell’s Concise Cyclopcedia,
and again I realised how little
I knew about the world. I
took that one, too. They
cost me: dictionary, 155.;
cyclopaedia, 10s.
This experience made me
feel deeply how the bursting
of the land-boom had affected
my education.
A few days later the Boss
sent for me again. I was
not prepared for this, and felt
somewhat uneasy.
“Well, what did you buy?”
I disclosed my two purchases.
“Huh,” he grunted, “a lot
of good they will do you as
a reporter. I want reporters
with a nose for news. I don’t
care much how badly it may
be written. It can be dressed-
up in the office. I want the
news as the first essential.”
Then, in a consoling way,
he added: “Perhaps you are
right, after all. I haven’t
enough men on the staff who
can write the King’s English.”
It wasn’t anything like as
bad as that. The Boss was
often given to exaggeration.
A further recollection of a
typical S.V.W. gesture was
when he called me into his
office at a later date, and said:
“Here, young shaver, they
tell me you’re going to get
married?”
I stammered an admission.
“What salary are you getting
now?”
I confessed it was the whole
sum of £3 a week.
“Good Lord!” he ejaculated.
“You can’t keep a wife on
that, let alone a family!”
I don’t know whether I said
“Yes” or “No” to that one;
but I do recollect the Boss
cutting-in with, “Well, I sup-
pose we’ll have to raise your
salary to four pounds.”
I learnt many years after-
wards that he himself had
married on £1 a week.
Anyway, thus it came that
Harriet Ann Butler (“Ett” to
this day) and I were married
at St. Luke’s, in Dorcas Street,
South Melbourne. The
wedding-breakfast was held in
the supper-room of the South
Melbourne Town Hall. We
went to our new home in
Armadale in a hansom-cab.
DEAD HORSE "SCOOP"
My first assignment on
the reporting staff
was to do the ship-
ping-round. I had to
call at the Mercantile Exchange
in Collins Street, where the
Commonwealth Bank now
stands, for any business
announcements of interest, and
then to the firms of Wilburs
and Grondonas. I was told
that, as import-merchants with
extensive overseas connections,
they frequently received letters
containing information of use
to the business world. This
was at the time when cable-
grams were shillings per word
and a great deal of overseas
news arrived by steamship
mail.
“Anything for the ‘Herald’
today?” I would ask.
“No, nothing for the
‘Herald’ today,” was the
invariable reply.
It seemed to me that there
was never anything for the
“Herald.” But I went parrot-
like through the formula every
day for many months, as I
was afraid that some day some
big news-item would break
and I would be carpeted for
missing it.
My next call was at the
old temporary Central Tele-
graph Office at the corner of
Elizabeth Street and Little
Bourke Street, afterwards to
be reconstructed and to become
known as “The Tin Shed,” a
label it still bears. There I
would copy the weather and
shipping telegrams from the
lighthouses and capes around
the Victorian coast.
Often, owing to unfavorable
weather conditions, the names
of passing vessels could not be
recognised. So they had to be
described as: “Off Cape
Otway, steamer, black funnel,
painted bands, passing west.”
On one occasion there was the
notice: “Off Green Cape,
lugger, painted ports, passing
north.”
I was very careful when I
copied this: I remembered the
occasion when a facetious
compositor on a Sydney paper
had substituted a “b” for
the “1.”
I have a vivid recollection
from this period of my early
journalistic days of an inci-
dent in Collins Street. Charles
Nixon, a year or two older
than I, was teaching me the
shipping - round. We had
arrived at the corner of Collins
and Queen Streets when we
saw a small and somewhat
excited crowd gathered in the
middle of the intersection. In
true professional style Charles
said, as if a riot had just
broken out, “You carry on!
I’ll take care of this!”
Before I left the scene I saw
that the cause of the excite-
ment was a cab-horse that had
fallen dead in the shafts.
When I reached the office
after having completed the
round I found Charles in a
restless condition of mind. He
was doing everything he could
think of to kill time. I knew
then that he had written some-
thing about the Collins Street
incident.
Eventually the distant
rumbling, of the printing-
machines indicated that the
edition was coming out.
Charles rushed down to the
machine-room and grabbed
one of the first papers to come
off the press.
“It’s in!” he cried gleefully ;
and sure enough there was his
cross-head: “Dead Horse in
Collins Street,” with a whole
three inches of space describ-
ing the scene. Pictured in his
face was the pride and joy of
seeing one’s first original effort
published in a daily newspaper.
Nowadays a few human-
beings are killed on the road
in a motor-car accident and
not more than a few inches of
space are devoted to the
tragedy.
T can understand the thrill
Charlie felt at seeing in
print the result of his first
real attempt at reporting, apart
from merely copying announce-
ments on notice-boards. I,
too, had that same kind of
feeling of elation when my
own first effort materialised in
the daily press.
I had purchased a bicycle,
and used to ride from Caul-
field in to the “Herald” office
to my work each day. This
day I was riding down Dande-
nong Road behind an elderly
grey-headed man. When we
came to St. Kilda Road junc-
tion another cyclist came tear-
ing down the High Street hill
with his feet up on the foot-
rests which used to be affixed
to the front forks. He was
following a popular custom
of those days known as
“coasting.”
Uncontrolled, his bicycle
smashed into that of the
elderly gentleman and threw
him heavily to the roadway.
When I reached the office
I tried to write the story, but
made many false starts. Sheets
of crumpled copypaper were
beginning to litter the floor.
While I was thus sweltering
in the throes of composition
(Continued on page 45)


CHEVRON
SYDNEY LIMITED
i
41
i
1
ill
111111111
ill!
lllllji
a
n
ill
II
ill
till
The main business of Chevron Sydney (now under
construction in Macleay St., Potts Point, Sydney)
will be to operate a fully air-conditioned Tourist
Centre and Hotel of international standard with
ultimate accommodation for 1,500 guests; restaurants;
public, saloon and cocktail bars; full convention
facilities, lounges, open air cafes; solarium; shopping
centre; airways terminal with booking,
information and baggage-handling
sections and ample off-street parking.
INTEREST PAID TWICE-YEARLY
free of Exchange in all Capital Cities
DEBENTURE REGISTERS
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
APPLICATIONS CAN BE ACCEPTED ONLY ON THE
PRINTED FORM ATTACHED TO THE PROSPECTUS
COPIES OF FULL PROSPECTUS WITH APPLICA-
TION FORM OBTAINABLE FROM
ASSfT COVER . .
■; TANGIBLE ASSET COVER FOR EACH £lOO OF
REGISTERED MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK IS £165
£2,000,000
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
I STOCK
Underwriting Brokers:
PATRICK & COMPANY, Members
of the Sydney Stock Exchange, 16
O’Connell St., Sydney. BL 5911. 50
Crown St., Wollongong. Ph. 5900.
WAITER P. HAM & CO., Mem-
bers of The Stock Exchange
of Melbourne, 105 Queen St.,
Melbourne. MU 6551.
CORRIE & CO., Members of the
Brisbane Stock Exchange. 400
Queen St., Brisbane. 31 2176.
Any Member of a recognised Stock Exchange
Any Branch of the Any Branch of
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES THE ENGLISH SCOTTISH & AUSTRALIAN BANK LTD.
WPH4O
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
The First Mortgage Deben-
ture Stock has been approved
for listing on tho Stock Ex-
change in all Capital Cities.
CUr OUT AND L
POST HO#
Share Registers &
Management Pty.
Ltd., 7 Rockwall Cr.,
Potts Point, Sydney
Please send me copy of Chevron Sydney
Limited prospectus with application form
attached.
NAME -
ADDRESS -
STATE


Lost Dream or Living Daydream?
Commenting on the British election,
Malcolm Muggeridge, who spent
some time in this country a couple
of years back, remarked, rather
sadly, that the Labor party had outgrown
the dream which enabled it to rise to
power and had found nothing to replace
it. On the hustings Gaitskell and Bevan
had offered higher pensions, cheaper
goods through reduced purchase-tax, a
more liberal scale of social-service bene-
fits. The electors had turned Labor down
because a majority of them were satis-
fied with the way things were going
under Macmillan; they felt that their
own personal circumstances were rela-
tively comfortable, that their collective
affairs were being adequately handled.
They therefore vo(ed for a continuance
of the status quo.
For Australians the interesting point
about Muggeridge’s summing-up is that
this is exactly what has been going on
in Federal Parliamentary elections ever
since 1949. Australian Labor has been
beating the same old class-war drums and
repeating the same old slogans to an
electorate which has become deaf to the
former and knows from its own experi-
ence that the latter have little if any
application to present-day conditions.
Years ago The Bulletin propounded
the theory that Labor M.P.s had become
the true conservatives of Australia in
the sense that they still clung jealously
to the traditions handed-down from the
days when the party was in swaddling-
clothes and most of its supporters wore
bowyangs, and that they tried to apply
to current problems philosophies and
dogma framed for a society that no
longer exists. Three years ago Professor
Arndt, delivering the Chifley Memorial
Lecture at Melbourne University, told
the A.L.P. this very thing. He said that
in recent years the only new thoughts in
the party had come from the Right, and
for that reason had been condemned out-
of-hand by the Left:
Paradoxically, it is the Left that has
become the stronghold of conservatism
within the Labor movement; content to
repeat the old slogans, fearful of departure
from the beliefs of its fathers.
Not a Ripple!
A knot said that the tremendous
x economic and political lessons of the
past 20 years had made virtually no
impact on Labor thinking. The change
from depression to almost continuous
full employment, with inflation the main
enemy ; from a rudimentary system of
social-services to a largely complete one ;
the demonstration in Britain that
nationalisation was not a cure-all; the
revealing of Communism in its ’ true
colors —all these changes, said Arndt,
had “hardly caused a ripple on the
surface of traditional Labor thinking.”
Three years and another election later
the ripples are still not apparent.
Labor claims to be the party of the
worker. The term “worker” is unde-
fined, but, judging from the speeches of
Labor M.P.s, it includes all wage- and
salary-earners and their wives. From
the same source it is apparent that
workers today dwe almost every advant-
age they enjoy to the untiring efforts of
the Labor party on their behalf. This,
one would think, would ensure the return
of the Labor party by a grateful
electorate, -since the great majority of
electors must, by definition, be workers.
Yet in five successive Federal elections
Labor has been defeated and is now just
as far off office as it was in 1950. If
every wage- and salary-earner—if every
trade-unionist even (and his wife) —
voted Labor there would never be any-
thing but a Labor Government in
Canberra. It is obvious that at every
election hundreds-of-thousands of the
people Labor claims to represent vote
silently but stubbornly against the party.
The Bulletin theory of the conservat-
ism of Labor—supported three years ago
by Professor Arndt and last week by
Malcolm Muggeridge explains this
apparent paradox. Any story, even a
good one, if repeated often enough,
begins to wear thin.
In its early days the A.L.P. had a good
story —or at least one that made a wide
appeal to the electorate. The bloated
capitalist, the heartless banker and the
wicked landlord were figures which
could be drawn very realistically in the
days before arbitration courts, before
wage-awards, before old-age and invalid
pensions, before unemployment pay-
ments, before hospital and medical
benefits, before rent-control, before
workers’ compensation, before credit-
control. But to the present-day electorate
those pictures look just as out-of-date
as the problem-paintings of the same
period do to admirers of contemporary
art.
A Creed Outworn
T>y clinging to its old shibboleths,
Labor places itself in an impossible
position. On the one hand it claims
credit for all the social advances of the
past 60 years ; on the other it asserts
that the condition of the worker is as
desperate as it ever was. When a Labor
politician, drawing upon his old familiar
well of cliches, speaks of the harsh lot
of the “pore old wage-plug” and of the
almost hopeless plight of the “pore old
pensioner,” he invites the question,
“What has Labor been doing all these
years if things are still so bad?”
The truth is, of course, that too many
workers know that as far as they are
concerned the conditions don’t apply.
The general run of wage-earner in Aus-
tralia has never been better fed, better
clothed or better supplied with amenities
—and he knows it. TV, beer and horse-
racing may be the mid-20th-century
equivalent of bread and circuses, but
they are at least here and real, and
accordingly higher valued than pie-in-
the-sky.
there is still a housing problem—of
acute and distressing import to the
minority affected —but landlordism as a
problem to stir the millions has no
appeal. It cannot have, when nearly 70
per cent, of all Australian homes are
occupied by people who either own them
or are in the process of buying them.
Unemployment was once a great vote-
compeller, but it has proved quite use-
less in that capacity since the war, yet
the “unemployment-pool” story —the
allegation that the Liberal and Country
parties, at the behest of their backers,
deliberately aimed at creating a pool of
unemployed in order to bring the workers
to heel—was part of the stock-in-trade
of Labor speakers at election after elec-
tion. With some members it became so
much a fixation that they seemed to be
hoping for a depression in order to prove
that they could put the workless back to
work if only they could find the work-
less. The 1930’s were still fresh in the
minds of many Labor men, but they
meant nothing to the young post-war
beginners in industry who were confi-
dent of their ability to hold their jobs
and who knew that if they chose to
walk-out of their current job they could
get one across the road at the same, or
better, pay.
Ancient History
r T"'o the youngster of 1949 the depres-
A sion of 1930 was ancient history ; not
so remote as Greece and Rome, perhaps,
but certainly in the same category as the
Boer War and Henry Parkes. This
applies with even greater force today.
No one in Australia under 35 has any
personal recollection of a period of
widespread unemployment, so it is use-
less trying to use fear of unemployment
as a means of persuading young people
to vote Labor. And it is to the young
that Labor must appeal if it is to replace
the ageing supporters of its palmy days.
A party of reform should always appeal
to youth.
As with unemployment so with
pensions. Labor must long ago have
gained all the votes it will ever gain on
the pensions-issue. Yet it still flogs it to
death. No young worker in the flush of
youth—and how flush youth is today!
—gives two hoots about the pension. It
won’t affect him for another 40 years.
This is not to say that Labor is wrong
in expressing concern about unemploy-
ment, if and when unemployment really
exists or seems imminent. Nor in seek-
ing higher pensions if it really believes
the economy can stand them. But in
trying to use the two issues as vote-
catchers ; in trying to win elections with
them in a time of prosperity, it is com-
pletely out of touch with reality. If the
British Labor party has, as Muggeridge
claims, lost its dream, Australian Labor
is living in a daydream.


Missing Friend
WOULD any person knowing the where-
abouts of LESLIE BASIL TAPP, for-
merly of Tasmania but later of Wol-
longong and other places in New South
Wales, please communicate with
MESSRS. PAGE SEAGER DOYLE &
BETHUNE, of 119 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, in Tasmania, Solicitors.
start the day right]
$
©lt* c
f>Mh
HO**
r tM sfVno
kiSJSi
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
First of the Cups
Only once in the last 36
years (Lincoln, 6.10, 1949) has
a Caulfield Cup winner carried
less weight than the five-year-
old mare Regal Wench did last
Saturday. She was handi-
capped at 6.12, but young
Trevor Dyer declared 21b.
over. Her record indicates
why the handicapper treated
her lightly. In her two-year-
old year she had six unplaced
starts-; the next season her
only two successes were in
minor country events; as a
four-year-old she did slightly
better, winning a weak 10-
furlongs event at Flemington,
a Trial at Moonee Valley and
a couple of country races, and
in her best performance ran
second in the Australian Cup.
In this, her fifth year, her only
success prior to winning the
second most important race in
Victoria was a handicap at
Mornington. On Saturday she
won —as most Caulfield Cups
are won —by being up with
the leaders from the start,
prominent at the turn, and
fighting on in the run down
the straight.
Dyer handled Regal Wench
perfectly, keeping her parked on
the rails, never further back than
fifth, and making his challenge as
soon as the field straightened for
home. With her featherweight
Regal Wench was not seriously
troubled to hold-off the late runs
of Sir Blink and Trellios.
Regal Wench, who is out of
Winval, gave her sire, the French
horse Atout Maitre, his most
important success in Australia.
Atout Maitre, foaled in France in
1936, raced successfully in England,
and has the remarkable record of
having been represented by winners
in 13 countries.
Trainer Bill Murrell has Regal
Wench on lease from the estate of
the late Col. Chisholm, who was
the owner of the Khancoban Stud
on the Murray, and who had raced
the mare himself. Murrell is
hoping that Regal Wench will emu-
late that great mare Rivette, and
win the Caulfield-Melbourne Cups
double. The mare was weighted at
7.2 for Flemington, but has copped
a 61b. penalty. Oddly enough, it
was Murrell who took-over the
stables of Rivette’s trainer, Harry
Bamber, when that mentor retired.
• x • • •
It was a good day for Vic-
torian owners at Caulfield, with
Regal Wench’s Cup win and
the victory of Chaise in the
One Thousand Guineas
(actually worth 4000gns.). It
was said here after Chaise won
a race at the Valley last month
that she would win better races,
and she certainly turned-in a
great run to defeat the good
fillies Mintaway, from
Adelaide, and Spacewise, from
Sydney. The Guineas is a mile
event, and, after taking-up the
running shortly after the start,
Chaise ran her rivals off their
“Come on, Butch!”
feet to lead to the line in the
smart time of 1.38 1/10.
Chaise continued the success this
season of the imported horse
Landau, and is from Lagoda, a
French mare formerly the property
of Marcel Boussac. The filly is
raced by V.R.C. committeeman
E. A. Underwood, who imported
both the filly’s sire and dam.
Chaise has been rated suspect over
a distance, but she went to the line
so strongly on Saturday that she
may be an Oaks proposition.
In the first division of the
five-furlongs Gwyn Nursery
for two-year-old colts and
geldings the warm favorite,
Dalby, ran up to good previous
form to score comfortably.
He’s raced by S. L. Calvert,
who puts a lot of money into
the racing-game, and who paid
4800gns. for Dalby’s sire, Sir
Dallas, as a yearling, and last
autumn gave the same amount
for the Comic Court-Chicquita
colt who has been named
Comicquita. Calvert bred
Dalby himself, from the mare
Bymue. It’s likely that Dalby
will contest the Maribyrnong
Plate at Flemington on Derby
Day. Winner of the second
Gwyn, Prince Paladin, was
friendless in the market. He’s
a chestnut colt by Pan II from
Posture, and even R. Schneider,
who races the colt in partner-
ship with his wife, confessed
that he had backed something
else in the race.
With the Derby so close,
added interest was taken in the
10-furlongs Burwood Handi-
cap for three-year-old colts
and geldings. Most people
have regarded Dhaulagiri as
Victoria’s main hope in the
classic, but that colt beat only
a couple home in the Burwood.
It might pay to overlook the
run, as he appeared to stumble
badly during the race. The
winner, Roman Reveller,
turned-in an impressive per-
formance. At the half-mile he
was in the last bunch, but from
there he put in a sustained run
to land the money narrowly
from Oswald. The winner is a
Neapolitan colt from St. De
Lass raced by V. Townshend
and his wife. They have de-
cided that the win has earned
him a Derby start.
New Zealand entries—there
were four of them —had no
luck in the Caulfield Cup, but
Court Gold did something for
N.Z. prestige by taking the last
event on the Caulfield pro-
gramme, the seven-furlongs
Moonga Handicap. Court
Gold —brought here by trainer
Ivan Tucker, well remembered
for his connection with Rising
Fast —is a four-year-old mare
by Gold Nib from Night
Court.
The most impressive per-
formance on the middle day of
the Caulfield Cup meeting was
that of the two-year-old filly
Impulsive, who broke a record
that had been standing to the
credit of Adored since 1933.
Impulsive ran the 4\ furlongs
of the Mona Nursery in
53 1-10. To make the run even
better, Impulsive missed the
start slightly, yet comfortably
defeated the promising Lady
Regal.
Impulsive could provide warm
opposition for the colts in the
Maribyrnong Plate on Derby Day.
Good fillies have done well in the
Plate in recent years, and Impul-
sive may be as good a filly as we
have seen for some time. She is
raced as a gift from Dr. Graham
Godfrey by the doctor’s wife, Mrs.
S. Godfrey, and daughter Mrs.
R. A. Walker, and is beautifully
bred, being by Landau from the
Hostile mare Spitfire, who won the
Oakleigh in 1950.
• • • •
Moonee Valley Racing Club
continues Melbourne’s racing
carnival on Saturday with the
£3500 Moonee Valley Cup and
the £5450 W. S. Cox Plate. The
Valley Cup is a poor guide to
the Melbourne Cup, only
Clean Sweep (1900), Blue Spec
(1905) and Wodalla (1953)
having completed the double.
The field is in doubt at time
of writing, but if they run,
Royal Jester, Gaybao and
Famed should do well, and are
selected in that order.
The w.-f.-a. Cox Plate has
been a good race for three-
year-olds, and in recent years
Chanak, Carbon Copy, Delta,
Alister, Bronton, Hydrogen
and Kingster have won at that
age. Again, the field is in
doubt, but if Martello Towers
and Travel Boy start, it will be
interesting to see how they
fare over the 10 furlongs of the
Plate against Caulfield Guineas
winner Prince Lea. There is
a slight chance that Mac will
run, and possibly Webster.
Last year Yemen won this race
on a very heavy track, and the
New Zealander is again
entered. If he runs, Martello
Towers may win, from Travel
Boy and Roman Reveller.
* * *
Sydney Form
Randwick trainer T. J. Smith
was at the Caulfield Cup meet-
ing when two of his team, Ra
Ora and Top Ruler, won at


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Seriousfinancial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
75 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
No. 1936 of 1907.
BETWEEN MARIO VAJDA Petitioner
AND SUSANNE VAJDA Respondent.
TO SUSANNE VAJDA C/o the Secre-
tary, Estonian Club Campbell Street
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that MARIO
VAJDA has filed Petition for Divorce
No. 1936 of 1957 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 4th November 1959 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from P. LINCOLN SMITH, Soli-
citor, 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN KEVIN KELLY of 12 George
Street Hurstville New South Wales. —
TAKE NOTICE that NORMA ELIZA-
BETH KELLY has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 832 of 1959 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three (3) years and upwards and
is asking for the exercise of the Court’s
discretion under S. 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899-1958 If
you JOHN KEVIN KELLY wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
Mint Building Macquarie Street Sydney
by the 21st day of December 1959 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from E. H. TEBBUTT & SONS,
28 Martin Place, Sydney.—-C. A. H.
HARMS. Registrar.
TO MAURICE PERRY CATLING for-
merly of Leederville and Broome
Western Australia. —TAKE NOTICE that
your wife BARBARA CATLING has
commenced proceedings against you in
the Supreme Court of Western Australia
for Divorce on the ground of habitual
failure by you for three years immedi-
ately prior to the commencement of the
action to make periodical payments of
maintenance under an order of a com-
petent Court If you desire to defend
such proceedings or to counterclaim you
must file your defence or counterclaim
in the Central Office of the Supreme
Court at Perth within forty (40) clear
days from the date of this publication
IN DEFAULT of your doing so the
action may proceed and the Court will
pronounce judgment and make orders
against you in your absence. DATED
this 13th day of October, 1959. —G. J.
BOYLSON, Registrar.
KOTT WALLACE & GUNNING, of 62
St. George’s Terrace, Perth, Solicitors
for the Plaintiff.
City Tattersall’s meeting at
Randwick. Ra Ora landed
the Army Stakes (two-year-old
maidens) for owner D. V. R.
Doyle, and Top Ruler the
Highweight for E. A. F.
Haley.
The only filly in the Army
Stakes field, Ra Ora was bred
in New Zealand, by Gabador
(Fr.) from Lady Balloch by
Balloch (imp.) from Lady Ex
by Lord Quex. Lady Ex is
dam of several winners, and
herself won five races in N.Z.
Though the colt Alpenstock
Ra Ora’s stablemate
didn’t get a place in the Army
Stakes, he shaped well enough
to suggest an early success.
This also applies to runner-up
Good Fort, who covered
rather much ground near the
home-turn after being near the
rails in the early part of the
sprint. Alpenstock, who had
won a Rosebery barrier-trial
in good style, is by the new
imported sire Alpenhorne,
winner of six races at from
seven furlongs to 1| mile and
a son of noted sire and stayer
Alycidon. Dam of Alpenstock
is Nizam’s Belle, by Belvedere
(imp.) from Nizam’s Ring by
Nizami (imp.).
For the best part of 30
years Dr. E. G. Carroll has
raced a horse or two on Syd-
hey courses, most of them
stabled with trainer Fred
Russell, and to his gradually
increasing prizemoney - total
his six-year-old Grove Hall
added the 12-furlongs City
Tattersall’s Gold Cup, worth
£852, plus a 150gns. trophy.
Time, 2.35-f-, was slow, but
there was no pace on.
The only runs at all like
Melbourne Cup pointers at
Randwick were that win by
Grove Hall and the stylish
effort in second place by
Royal Jester. Royal Jester
seems a certain starter in the
big Cup. He carried the
welterweight of 9.7 on Satur-
day, and drops to 8.6 in the
Flemington two-miler. In the
autumn Royal Jester twice
won over a middle-distance at
Rosehill, and in the Metro-
politan, on a dead track, he
finished second with 8.11 to
Macdougal, after being in a
rearward position five furlongs
from home. He’s a five-year-
old gelding by Timanova
(imp.) from Tendril (imp.) by
His Highness. Grove Hall
has twice scored at 12
furlongs, and he could be a
lightweight Cup show.
Trainer Jack Green also was
at Caulfield when Nadar Shah,
one of his team, had an easy
Randwick Novice win at 10
furlongs, a considerable
reversal after having finished
last in the A.J.C. Trial Stakes
on Derby Day. In that field
of seven he was one of the
last two all the way, and didn’t
improve, but last Saturday W.
Camer, who had the mount
this time, took him round the
field near the home-turn and
he won easily. Before the
Trial Stakes failure Nadar
Shah had won a 10-furlongs
Graduation Stakes at Rosehill
in brilliant style, carrying the
maiden weight of 7.12.
Trained by C. G. Shelley
for A. G. Paterson, Cuban
Tan had won at Randwick on
Derby Day in race-record time
for seven furlongs and had
finished on strongly when
fourth to Mystic Star at
Canterbury three days before
winning the City Tatt.’s six-
furlongs Welter, for which he
was backed from sevens to
equal-favoritism with Win-
chester (third). Apprentice H.
Trenear, who had surprised on
.Winchester at his prior outing,
didn’t ride him quite as well
this time. Cuban Tan won
in Brisbane in August, and is
more than a useful galloper.
Mrs. Rita Moore owns
Sensational in partnership with
D. N. Buffier and trainer R.
Shirtliff, and they correctly
gave the filly a good chance of
winning the Canterbury mid-
week Two-year-old Maiden
Stakes, though the youngster
had finished well back in the
Gimcrack Stakes after being
near the lead early. Sensa-
tional is by Squander Bug
(imp.) from Salmon Pink by
Midstream (imp.) from Trieste
by Constant Son (imp.) Stara-
way, after his good second to
Spectator at Rosehill, easily
won, as expected, the Maiden
Three-year-old. He’s a stylish-
looking gelding by Star King-
dom (imp.) from Pegaway by
Marconigram (imp.), and is a
half-brother to Connaught.
* * *
Queensland Guineas winner
Countwood is a three-year-old
gelding by Boxwood (imp.)
from Honey Buzz, and there-
fore a brother to Brisbane’s top
performer Earlwood. Honey
Buzz (sister to Buzalong,
winner of the Caulfield Cup
and many other races) was got-
by The Buzzard (imp.) from
Saccharine by Highfield (imp.).
Countwood may prove another
Earlwood, even though he won
the Guineas by only a nose
from Midswain. Surprise
winner of the First Hopeful
Stakes for two-year-olds, Pass-
ing Dance, is a bay colt by
Passing Glance (imp.) from
Floral Dance (a winner in New
Zealand) by Foxbridge (imp.)
from Knockfin by Hunting
Song (imp.). The Second
Hopeful went to 5-to-l-on
Refulgent, a two-year-old
gelding that also should go on
to better things. He is by
Melbourne Cup winner Dal-
ray from Chez Dior by May-
town from Mary’s Robe by
High Force (imp.) from that
fine performer Molly’s Robe
by Syce (imp.)—a sound back-
ground.
* * *
The Trots
Setting a sizzling pace after
a slow get-away, South Aus-
tralian pacer Sea Gram main-
tained his unbeaten record of
eight straight wins on tracks
in four States in Australia,
leading almost throughout to
win the Qualifying Stakes at
Harold Park on Saturday
night. Sea Gram paced the
1 li furlongs in the race-record
time of 3.7 J-. In the £lOOO
Trotters’ Cup (15fur. 92yds.)
Jenny and Shellgrit staged a
thrilling finish as they singled-
out from the rest in the
straight, Jenny landing the
bacon by half-a-neck in the
race-record time of 4.12|.
Jenny won the corresponding
race at last year’s Spring
Carnival. Fettle —sixth suc-
cessive favorite to win on
Saturday —outsprinted his top-
class rivals to beat his own
race-record by jth sec. in 3.4 f.
He comfortably beat the fast-
finishing Apmat, with Sibelia,
boxed-in on the rails, failing
by a nose for second money.
It was Fettle’s 15th Harold
Park win and his 29th in all.
Apmat’s performance was a
good trial for next week’s
£5OOO Anniversary Cup, in
which he meets Fettle and
Sibelia on 24yds. better terms.
By his convincing win from
Meadowlands in the fourth
heat of the Birthday Handi-
cap Yonkers looks like start-
ing favorite in the final on
Saturday night. New Zealand
Derby winner Blue got his
nose in front of Tungston in
the fifth heat, and Streak’s
Son comfortably beat Prize
Guy in the sixth.
* * *
Other Sports
On attendance - figures
Rugby League had a bad 1959
season —profit was only £5488,
a drop of no less than £lO,OOO
on the previous year. It hadn’t
that on its own, of course;
most spectator-sports suffered;
and a fair whack of the lost
dough went in the good cause of
encouraging the code amongst


!> 4
There’s richer enjoyment in every glass
OF FINE.
MELLOW
STAGI7CS
Pot-Still BRANDY
There’s no drink at once so stimulating ... so
relaxing ... so cheering at all times as good
Australian brandy. And no brandy offers you
richer, more satisfying enjoyment than St. Agnes.
All the skill and experience of seventy-five years
careful wine making, distilling and blending are
combined in the perfection of St. Agnes Brandy . . . winning for
St. Agnes a distinguished reputation for quality, both in Australia
and the world over!
You will enjoy §?
OLD LIQUEUR
or THREE STAR
Australia's Better Brandy
ANGOVE’S LTD. of RENMARK, S.A. • WINEMAKERS & DISTILLERS
ASK ALSO FOR ANGOVC'S WINE
juniors and in schools. How-
ever, the showing by the tour-
ing Kangaroos, particularly in
downing Britain 22-14 in the
first Test, should help pack
’em in during next season. The
’Roos forwards did so well
altogether that it would be
hardly fair to single any of
them out. Among the backs
young Reg Gasnier lived right
up to what all who saw his
brilliance with St. George this
year expected of him. Mid-
way through the second half
the ’Roos led 20-4, and
Britain’s skipper ruefully con-
ceded that they had then eased-
down.
* * •
“Recorder”: Administrators
of Rugby League —the main
football-code in N.S.W. —have
had their scouts make a care-
ful survey of the reported
threat to the code, particularly
from Soccer. The result is
satisfactory to the League boys
—an increase last season in the
number of schoolboy football-
teams, and a large list of appli-
cations from schools wanting
to play the game. And why?
Well, League is today looking
after the schools ; Soccer and
Union give a hand-out, and
let it go at that.
« * t
Next year Rugby Union sec-
retaries of the many nations
that play the game will all be
heading for London —to attend
the first Rugby Union National
Secretaries’ Conference. The
conference was decided on at
the recent international Union
get-together in New Zealand.
The good idea is thii the work
of the secretaries —who, after
all, do -a pretty heavy stint
of administrative toil—should
be recognised in a tangible way.
So, off to London next year
for a month. Some are already
planning to drop-in on Rome
for the Olympics.
• • • •
Among other good aspects
of their tour, the Rugby Union
British Lions visited no fewer
than 1000 schools, hospitals
and other institutions in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand. For
N.Z. the tour resulted in a net
profit of £250,000, all of which
will be ploughed-back into the
game.
* * •
“K.R.”: Marulan (N.S.W.)
opening-batsman Len Pole,
playing in Goulburn’s cricket
competition, has made a
century in seven of the nine
opening matches he’s played in
since 1951. In an eighth game
he was run-out for 93. This
year he began with a 154
against Postal.
“Veryl”: North Melbourne
fast-medium bowler “Lofty”
Pearce, a carpenter, has lately
been erecting a new scoreboard
at North’s ground. Best per-
formances recorded on it the
first match it was in use were
Pearce’s own 5-39 and 5-34,
which helped North to an out-
right win over Melbourne, last
season’s pennant premiers.
South Africa, holding that
there should be a reduction in
time allotted for cricket Tests,
put a case to the M.C.C., ask-
ing that when the S’Africans
next visit England the Tests
should not be longer than four
days, or should be limited to a
playing-time of 24 hours. The
M.C.C. is reported to have
replied that the suggestion is
worthy of “serious considera-
tion.”
* * *
“19th”: Interesting fact
about Australian rep. golfer
Bruce Devlin is that he took to
golf in a time of family suffer-
ing. His father, Arthur, a keen
golfer at Goulburn (N.S.W.),
lost an arm in a motor-acci-
dent, and, heartbroken, told
Bruce, his caddie, that their
days of fun in golf were over.
“That’s not so, Dad,” said
young Bruce, then 12. “I'll
take up the game, and you can
be my caddie!” And thus a
fine father-son alliance was
maintained through the years,
and Bruce, now regarded as
the best amateur in the world,
never discarded his father’s
advice in the choice of a club
for a particular shot. The
partnership was partly severed
this year, when Bruce accepted
a good position in Victoria,
but his father has always
found some way of being
present to see him play an
important match.
» • • •
“A.C.T.”: And now a
British firm has developed a
three - wheel golf - buggy
powered by a 24-volt battery,
which can carry two players
and their clubs over 36 holes
without recharging—a cheaper
job, therefore, than petrol-
powered buggies. There are
twin telescopic shock-absorbers
for ventures into the rough.
V * *
“Try”: ’Tis said there is no
man with the endurance of a
man who sells insurance . . .
A Sydney amateur sports-club
lately secured valuable land in
a posh section of the Northern
Harbor area for development
as a huge sports-centre. It
took eight years of work by
club-members to get council
approval the leader was a
member of an international
insurance company. -The plan
is to build a football- and
athletics-arena, plus squash-
and tennis-courts, to a total
value (including buildings) of
£200,000. The money will
come from the “iron bandits.”
* * *
“Let”: Five days after the
last ball had been hit in the
Davis Cup, Frank Land, secre-
tary of the Q.L.T.A., received
letters from 100 people asking
him to make reservations for
them in December, 1960. Land
didn’t know where the match
would be played, and told the
applicants so, but they didn’t
care. They wanted the tickets.
Says Land: “Isn’t that a signi-
ficant reaction in days when
some people are knocking the
sport?”
* * *
“Sam”: Te Aute College no
longer has the record of being
the only N.Z. school Rugby
Union team to visit Australia
(B. 2/9/’59). Dilworth School
first XV arrived late in the
1959 season for a three-weeks’
tour against Australian schools.
# * *
“Joanne”: Keep your eye on
Australian table-tennis singles
champion Cliff McDonald, of
Sydney, who is a whole 16
years of age. He won the title
in Perth when he defeated
former Queensland champion
Phil Anderson 21-16, 18-21,
21-17, 21-15. The youngest
champion before this was Jeff
Jennings, a team-mate, who
was 20 when he got to the top.
The N.S.W. title fell to Mc-
Donald when he was 15. Mc-
Donald, with Michael Wilcox
and former Australian cham-
pion Arden Robinson, earlier
this year represented Australia
in the world championships
in Germany for the Swaythling
Cup. He won the French
junior title, considered the
world’s top junior event, as
well as the South London
championship. With Wilcox he
won the Sussex junior doubles.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
WORLD COMMUNISM IN 1959
Commenting in the British
quarterly “Contem-
porary Review” on infor-
mation published in the past
few years by Soviet leaders
about the international Com-
munist movement and its main
components, Ivan Avakumovic
notes that “though it lacks the
completeness of detail given in
the early days of the Comin-
tern, it is a welcome change
from the notorious paucity of
statistical material in the late
Stalin era”:
“The data cover the number
of Communist parties, the con-
ditions under which they work,
their overall membership and
the numerical strength of their
most important branches. They
also give, indirectly at least,
some indication of the impact
of Khrushchev’s disclosures
about Stalin and the Hungarian
revolution on party-members
and electoral supporters in the
free world. Finally, the recent
21st congress of the Communist
party of the Soviet Union
throws light on the status of
the various Communist parties
in Moscow.
“According to Khrushchev,
Communist parties are operat-
ing in 83 countries compared
with 76 in 1957. The increase
is due to the recent formation
of several Communist parties
in Latin America, where the
Communists boast 'every Latin
American country now has its
own Communist party.’ In
addition, a representative of the
Communist party of Northern
Ireland made his appearance
at the 21st congress, which
was greeted, amongst others,
by the Irish Workers’ League.
This body is the leading Com-
munist-front organisation in
the Irish Republic. Lastly, the
Communist party of Syria-
Lebanon, which used to cater
for the two republics, has been
split, and delegates of both
the Syrian and Lebanese Com-
munists addressed separately
the congress in Moscow.
“Of the 83 Communist
parties, 12, excluding the Com-
munist League of Yugoslavia,
are in power. Of the remainder
over 30 are illegal and have,
on the whole, a low member-
ship. Recent events in Iraq and
some of the Latin American
republics show, however, that
the illegal Communist parties
are capable of rapid expan-
sion, once the ban on their
activities is removed.
“The most recent figure for
the overall Communist mem-
bership was provided by
Khrushchev at the 21st con-
gress of the Communist party
of the Soviet Union. He
claimed that ‘their membership
adds-up to more than 33-
million people.’
“The apparent levelling-off
of the overall Communist
membership in the past few
. years may be attributed to the
purges in several East Euro-
pean parties, to the steady
decline of Communist strength
in some parts of the world,
and to the fact that the figure
for 1957 explicitly included
Marshal Tito’s Communist
League of Yugoslavia with over
700,000 members. His leader-
ship and policies were attacked
in the Soviet world after the
publication of the new pro-
gramme of the Communist
League of Yugoslavia in the
spring of 1958.
“The 33-million organised
Communists are unevenly
distributed. The bulk is con-
centrated in the Communist
countries, with China and the
U.S.S.R. providing over 21-
million members, while the
satellites supply about eight-
million. Approximately four-
million party-members live in
non-Communist countries, with
almost half of them in Western
Europe.
“The Communist parties
west of the Iron Curtain may
be divided into two major
groups, according to the degree
of popular support they enjoy.
The first consists of five Com-
munist parties (Finland,
France, Greece, Iceland and
Italy) which have been able
to maintain their hold over
a sizeable section of the elec-
torate. In each case they com-
mand a poll of about a fifth or
more of the total, though party-
membership has declined in
the past few years and seems
to be still sinking. The second
group covers the rest of Western
Europe, where the Communists
have been losing popular sup-
port and influence in the trade-
union movement since the
beginning of the cold war. The
same trend is noticeable in
Australia, Canada and New
Zealand, where the Communist
parties failed to win even one
per cent, of the votes cast in
—London “News Chronicle.”
“IF TOTAL DISARMAMENT MEANS DISPOSING OF HIM, I’M BACKING
KHRUSHCHEV’S SCHEME TO THE HILT.”
the most recent general elec-
tions.
“Their successive failures in
the most advanced parts of the
free world have been com-
pensated by their successes else-
where. On balance they have
gained ground in Asia since
Mao Tse-tung came to power
in China. Their greatest suc-
cesses were achieved in India
and Indonesia, where party-
membership has increased
rapidly.
“T od a y the Indonesian
Communist party (1,500,000
members) bids fair to supplant
the Italian as the largest out-
side the Iron Curtain. The
growth of membership was
accompanied by electoral suc-
cesses. In the most recent
general elections in India and
Indonesia the Communists
polled over 17-million votes,
compared with over 14-million
in Western Europe. Their
Japanese comrades, on the
other hand, failed to make
similar headway. The percent-
age of votes for Communist
candidates rose only slightly
from 1.9 in 1953 to 2.5 in 1958,
compared with 9.7 in 1949.
“An outline of the hierarchy
of the world Communist move-
ment appeared in the course of
the 21st congress of the Com-
munist party of the Soviet
Union. In welcoming the 72
foreign Communist delegations
Khrushchev began by referring
to the Communist parties which
are in power today. His first
greetings were extended to the
Communist party of China and
Chou En-lai. He then cited
the remaining delegations,
beginning with Gomulka and
mentioning Ulbricht and
Novotny before Kadar and
Hoxha, while the veteran Indo-
chinese leader Ho Chi-minh
was greeted before the North
Korean and Outer Mongolian
delegates.
“As when celebrating the
40th anniversary of the October
Revolution in Moscow, the
Italian and French delegations
were again greeted before those
of Indonesia, India, Finland,
etc., not to mention the envoys
representing the American,
British and West German
parties.
“In all, Khrushchev men-
tioned by name the leaders of
34 delegations from the non-
Communist world. No indi-
vidual welcome was extended
to the leaders of 22
Communist-party delegations.
Most of these represented
parties which are illegal or
considered too insignificant


Now... 5 services weekly from Australia
m
m
ll#
m
mtimHv*
jpltfglfifafjl
A
#4l
m
uu
I
2
mmm
■ s'
VO
sM:
yyyyys
vyyyK
u&&<s&
mmmt
Britain’s supreme Rolls-Royce Powered Jet
sets a new high level in jet-age smoothness, comfort, speed
flying B miles a minute, 7 miles up!
Flying by BOAC Comet is the perfect way to travel the world.
In restful calm this fabulous Jetliner speeds you luxuriously
between Continents —with a wonderful sensation of well-being
and comfort induced by vibrationless flight.
World’s most proven Jetliner, BOAC’s pure-jet Comet 4 has
now flown millions of passenger miles on regular services
between Tokyo, Hong Kong, Singapore, Bangkok, Rangoon,
Colombo, Bombay, Calcutta, New Delhi, Karachi, Bahrein,
Teheran, Beirut, Istanbul, Rome, Zurich, Frankfurt, London,
New York and Montreal.
It will provide regular services from Australia to London
taking over from the magnificent jet-prop Britannia, and
serving all present points on the BOAC-Qantas “Kangaroo”
route.
BOAC’s great global network of jet services—linking all six
continents is not matched by any other airline. And with the
extra speed and comfort of jet-smooth BOAC airliners you
enjoy BOAC’s unsurpassed personal service. Remember,
First-class or Tourist, it still costs no more to fly by
BO AC world-wide jet services.
Book by BOAC. You will arrive gloriously fresh ...
thanks to the difference BOAC jet travel makes.
For full details of Luxury and Low-Fare services throughout
the world, see your Travel Agent, Qantas Empire Airways
(BOAC General Agents for Australia) or BOAC Booking
Office, 33-39 Margaret Street, Sydney. BX 7591.
nr soac
The most experienced jet Airline in the world
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL, S.A.A. AND C.A.A.
A22a/AU


Now Open!
THE
GOVERNMENT-
GUARANTEED
SYDNEY
WAYER
BOARD
5'A%
LOAN
For 7, 10 or 25 years
The Loan offers maximum security to every investor—
The New South Wales Government unconditionally
guarantees principal and interest.
Your investment will earn £5/5/- per cent, annually through-
out the term selected—7, 10 or 25 years. As this amount
would earn only £3 per cent, annually in savings bank
interest, it is easy to see why the Loan is extremely profitable
as well as absolutely safe.
Your Loan investment will be quickly arranged:—
At any office of the—
• Commonwealth Trading Bank;
• Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited;
• Bank of New South Wales;
• Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
Limited;
• Or through a Stockbroker;
• Or at the Sydney Water Board Offices.
An Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W., Queensland,
Western Australia and Tasmania.
THE
SYDNEY WATER BOARD LOAN
Underwritten by
RAEPH W. KING & YUIEE ERNEST E. DAVIS & CO.
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
THE
ORION INSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
( Incorporated, in England)
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT AVIATION
N.S.W. BRANCH: 19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
TELEPHONES * BU 4387 L. F. THORPE, Manager.
(like Luxembourg), while five
delegations were not even
mentioned by name. It is pos-
sible that the Egyptian Com-
munist party, which has been
suffering from teething-troubles
for some time, falls into this
category. Such was the order
of precedence of those whom
Khrushchev addressed collec-
tively as ‘our dear guests/”
Spring Comes Slowly
XVThile seeing plainly that
* little of concrete value
emerged from the Eisenhower-
Khrushchev talks, London
“Economist” outlines the
changes they have effected in
the international weather:
“Even inconclusive meetings
now serve the purpose of keep-
ing the various balls in the air.
And this is not merely a
sensible tactic in a world which
judges the peaceful intentions
of statesmen largely by their
relative willingness to for-
gather : it is also a prudent
form of insurance.
“It seems hardly likely that
Mr. Khrushchev will precipi-
tate a real crisis over Berlin,
for example, while the
gardeners at his country seat
at Semyonovskoye are making
sure of a fine show of spring
flowers to please the eyes of
the Eisenhower family [when
the U.S. President pays his
return-visit]. Pledges not to
resort to force are, unfortu-
nately, disposable ; social en-
gagements, fixed on the
calendar months in advance,
may well prove to have a more
inhibiting effect in practice.
“One hopes there will not be
too much lamentation in the
wake of the Khrushchev visit,
either by those who may accuse
Mr. Eisenhower of having
‘missed the bus’ or by other dis-
appointed hopefuls who may
have expected the Soviet leader
to be converted to understand-
ing of the Western way of
thought on his first encounter
with a supermarket. There
will surely be some. Only in
a State where the Government
controls all communications
can an inconclusive encounter
be convincingly depicted as a
triumph. But discussion of the
next stages should take account
of three things, all of which
have their encouraging aspects.
“First, Mr. Khrushchev has
now played his ace of trumps:
never again can a Soviet ruler
descend upon the stronghold
of democracy as a wholly new
phenomenon, with the awful
mien of a man from (and, in-
cidentally, in occupation of)
the moon. Indeed, one of the
strongest arguments for letting
personal diplomacy have its
head is that its returns, in terms
of melodramatic impact,
diminish so quickly, allowing
commonsense to regain its
grip.
“Secondly, the very incon-
clusiveness of the Camp David
talks was one more salutary
and needed reminder of the
limitations of dramatic con-
frontations as a substitute for
policy. Finally, for all Mr.
Khrushchev’s air of hustling
impatience, his actual policies
are deeply rooted in the
Russian way of life, with its
sometimes infuriatingly slow
tempo.
“His objectives are long-
term ones ; his negotiators are
prepared to sweat it out at
Geneva by the year if need
be ; he presides over a system
which is slowly, often grudg-
ingly, yet perceptibly evolving
in a direction less unfavorable
to the survival of liberty in the
world. The Russian spring
comes slowly ; but, for those
who have the patience and
courage to hold on through the
long darkness, it comes all the
same.”
Together Against
Disease
HThe “New York Times” notes
A editorially that, whatever
the political outcome of the
Khrushchev visit, the U.S. and
Russia have reached an agree-
ment in an important non-
political field:
“Henceforth there will be
several major joint-projects in


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO KEITH LIONEL POOLE late of
Ivanhoe I TAKE NOTICE that MARIA
POOLE has filed a Petition for Divorce
Suit No. 957 of 1959 on the ground of
desertion for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by the 30th December
1959 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from S. J. BULL SON &
SCHMIDT, Solicitors, of 34 Martin
Place, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
(A
/faon/tl fU , K)UCj/lOl*t Ate* U/o*ulcf
s4t,oi,e
ij catenas
the Pen
with the
Marvellous
QOLD
Nib!
B5 L 42/6d.
Other Conway Models
29j6d, . to 751 -
ri
the finest Pens-
the Greatest Value
CONWAY STEWART A CO. LTD. LONDON
—Condon “Observer:”
THE MIRAGE
the field of medical research
and the war on disease.
“This is a substantial ad-
vance over the programme of
mere exchange of information
that has already been going
forward. This actually calls
for a pooling of effort as well
as information. It moves one
step closer to the ideal of a
truly international medical-
research operation in which
efforts from many countries
are combined.
“The immediate projects that
have been announced are joint-
studies in the fields of cancer,
heart-disease and polio. It is
presumed that this will pave the
way for further research in
other fields. Also, it has been
emphasised that this joint-
programme is not intended to
replace the exchange-opera-
tions, but that the latter will
actually be expanded.
“It has been evident for a
long time that if there are ever
to be real breaks in the Iron
Curtain they will have to begin
in fields such as science, the
arts or humane endeavor that
can be divorced from political
considerations. Medical re-
search, coupled with the war
on disease, is just such a field.
There is no such thing as a
Marxist or an anti-Marxist
bacillus. Malaria is no
respecter of boundaries. Heart-
disease is not susceptible to
cure by dogma.
“Our area of disagreement
with the whole Communist
system is wide and profound.
We believe that we represent
a totally different concept of
life and its values. We cannot
compromise in matters such
as that.
“At the same time we can
sit down with Russians who are
making a life-work of finding-
out the facts about human ail-
ments and join our efforts to
theirs with warm enthusiasm.
They can help us and we can
help them.
“In a case such as this,
scientists can meet, not as
representatives of one nation,
State or another, or of one
ideology or another, but as co-
workers toward the same good
ends. This is a real field of
agreement, and it is important
and comforting to know that
it can be reached.”
Various Voices
Bishop Dibelius, leader of
the German Evangelical
Church: “There are certain
people in the West who seem
to believe that Communism is
just a different form of social
order. These people have no
inside knowledge of Com-
munism. If Communism came
to the West the atmosphere of
aggressive atheism would
spread with the support of an
authoritarian State machinery
complete with a violent secret-
police.”
* * •
General C. P. Cabell {of the
U.S. Central Intelligence
Agency): “The threat of Com-
munism is long-term and
many-sided. There must be no
blinders on us when we are
looking at the nature and
magnitude of this threat. The
Communists want to rule the
world. They want to abolish
free society. They have an
integrated offensive directed
from Moscow. Their strategy
is to infiltrate and absorb,
undermine and replace, sub-
vert and take-over —all, if
possible, without war.”
* * *
President Eisenhower: “We
shall not be serving mankind
well if we become obsessed
with just the business of putting
new satellites into orbit so
obsessed that we overlook the
fact that we have some real
problems left right here on
earth. We need to put new'
ideas —and more of them —into
orbit.”
* * *
Col. Tufton Beamish, M.C. :
“A growing number of people,
especially young people, find
the Socialists’ policy very old-
fashioned and irrelevant. They
are totally out of tune with the
fast-moving modern times.
Very few people today put
themselves in different social
classes as Britain is becoming
more and more, like America
and the Scandinavian countries,
where everyone regards them-
selves as middle-class and are
proud of it. People are more
interested in keeping-up with
the Joneses, than in dragging
down the Smiths. I see the
same trend all over the free
world. This side of the Iron
Curtain there is not one single
Socialist Government which
believes in nationalisation.”
* •* *
Sir Winston Churchill: “We
face a period of protracted and
complicated negotiations. In
this period two things are
vital. Firmness of purpose can
be accompanied by flexibility
of method ; but we must avoid
all temptation to buy a tem-
porary peace at the price of
a surrender of vital interests.
One-sidedly to deprive our-
selves of our arms, and in
particular of the nuclear deter-
rent, would be suicidal.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £89,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
A Cloud No Bigger
By E. O. SCHLUNKE
ttOU awake, Jim?”
\/ The voice bounced
JL the young man
instantly alert, though
it was low-pitched and con-
siderate. He sat up, surprised
for a moment by the unfamiliar
furnishings of the rented
suburban seaside flat. Then
he smiled and lay down again,
luxuriating in his idleness.
It was too early for even an
enthusiast’s morning swim.
But then, through the noise
of the'traffic pistoning shatter-
ingly up the hill just outside
his window, or coasting on
glider’s wings down it, he was
aware of his father’s voice
murmuring on and on in
conversation.
“You awake, Jim?”
This time he realised it was
no hallucination carried over
from the unrelenting pressure
of the changing seasons, but
the familiar parental voice,
coming from somewhere out-
side his window. He got out
of bed, feeling the hard tex-
ture of the long-life carpet on
the soles of his feet, and looked
down. There was his father,
already dressed, sitting on the
second step of the outside flight
that led to their first-floor flat,
talking amicably with the milk-
man.
Immediately the older man
looked up, his face animated
with interest or pleasure. He
smiled up at Jim.
“Come on down,” he called.
“Joe here knew the Inkerman
Valley in the old days.”
The milkman looked up,
too ; a man well into middle-
age, his red hair greying, his
face red and full of assertive
self-assurance.
“Born there, I was,” Joe
shouted up, in a rough, tile-
loosening voice. “Me dad
worked for the station.
Boundary-rider.”
“Come on down, Jim,” his
father repealed, as if this was
something too good to miss.
Tim slowly put on a flowered-
J silk dressing-gown, rather
too exquisite for his country
toughness. When he got to the
bottom of the steps, the milk-
man was in Charge of the con-
versation.
“Grew-up in a boundary-
rider’s hut, stuck in the bush,
miles from anywhere. I
usenter see another kid for
months on end. That’s why
I bolted as soon as I was
fourteen. It isn’t hooman to
live alone like that.”
He paused to lick, with a
massive expenditure of saliva,
the paper of a cigarette he had
been rolling, keeping a policing
eye on the Wintners, father
and son, while he did it. Some
of the loose tobacco fell into
the No. 2 Flat’s milk-can, but
he made no attempt to pre-
vent it. He gave Jim a hard,
inquiring stare, as if he’d been
unable to see him clearly.
“So you’re down from the
bush for a spell,” he said, his
voice coming in jerks as he lit
his cigarette. “Reckon you
won’t wanta go back, after the
pubs and the good-sorts on
the beach.”
The milkman winked heavily,
then turned challengingly to
the father ; a man whose open-
air appearance was under-
mined by a suggestion of
perennial anxiety.
“Oh, Jim’s not like that,”
Wintner said. “The city’s all
right for a holiday, but he
wouldn’t want to live here.
He’s like me, that way. Besides,
he’s got the farm to carry-on
when I’m gone.”
He looked at his son
expectantly, but Jim was
watching the milkman with
thoughtful distaste. The milk-
man had burst into raucous,
unbelieving, open - mouthed
laughter.
“So you reckon, hey, Old
Timer?” He took a couple of
draws and an inhalation, then
seeing them waiting for him
to finish his sentence, he ashed
his cigarette meticulously on
the steps before he went on.
“They’re arriving in hun-
dreds every week, Old Timer ;
these country lads whose dads
think they only like the city
for holidays. But it gets them!
Boy! How it gets them! Look
at me. Do you think I’d go
back to the bush?”
TlJather and son exchanged
a glance.
“Well, being a milkman,”
Wintner said, taking care not
to sound patronising, “can’t
be such a wonderful life.”
The milkman stared at this
impertinence.
“Me! I finish me day’s work
at nine-o’clock. ' Then I’ve
got all day to do what I like.
How’s that for a life? But
it’s the kids and the young’uns
that have the real good times.
My kids got tons of mates up
and down the street. They
don’t hafter play with sheep-
dogs and pet lambs like I
hadta.”
He smirked. Wintner
frowned. He began a gesture
dismissive of the milkman;
then changed his mind and
said pointedly to Jim.
“Long before I ever came
there, Joe remembers Inker-
man. When the MacPhersons
owned the whole valley. Blit
all they could run on it was
ten-thousand sheep.”
He turned to the milkman
and said with a return of
his earlier enthusiasm: “Since
it’s been cut-up, and the pas-
tures improved by the settlers,
it carries six times the stock.
And all the crops we grow,
too: oats and maize ; peas for


(but in what seemed more like
decomposition) my good
friend Tommy Kelynack, much
my senior, came to my rescue.
The dialogue went something
like this:
“In trouble, Bert?”
I told him I had a good
story to write but did not
know how to commence.
Every time I started, the story
failed to unfold itself evenly.
“Tell it to me,” Tommy said.
1 did so.
“That’s it,” he said.
“That’s what?” I asked.
“That's your story. Write it
in the way you have told it
to me v Don’t try any high-
brow stuff.”
He had sensed my difficulty.
The story seemed to come
easily when I cast out of my
“WENT HOME IN A HANSOM-CAB."
(George Lambert drawing for THE BULLETIN.)
juvenile mind the idea that
I had to try to write a highly-
polished literary account.
There was nothing veiy
extraordinary in an elderly
man being knocked down.
The story came from what
“ ° ow . • ..
The erring cyclist, myselt
and others had carried the
suffeter into the parlor of
Neil s Corner Hotel
How does it feel now, old
chap? I said (or something
of the sort). “Would you like
a stimulant. a drop of
...1;.],.,
wniSK-y, en - .
‘ I am not suffering a great
deal of pain,” said the injured
man, “but I have already
ordered some brandy. Most
unfortunate thing to happen.”
“Yes, poor old fellow,” I
agreed. “1 don’t want to leave
you like this,” 1 presently
added, “but I suppose there
is nothing else 1 can do, as
I’ll have to get on to my work.
But before I go perhaps I
could telephone someone to let
your people know you are
here?”
“Thank you,” he said. “Yes,
would you be good enough to
ring Dr. Davenport and tell
him that Mr. Justice Hodges
is lying injured here?”
1 felt as small as a microbe,
as, assuming the appropriate
air of respect, 1 hurried off to
the phone.
Doctors Davenport and
Schlesinger found that his
Honor was suffering from a
serious dislocation of the left
ankle and a fracture three
inches above-
Some jj ttle time i ater , w hen
j as pi acec j j n charge of the
Law Courts re p ort ing, and Mr.
j us tice Hodges was on the
Benchj j had a feeling that h is
Honor often glanced in the
direction of the press-box,
knowing m e as the forward
young cub who had addressed
him in a way he had never
b een addressed before,
(To be continued next week with
a “Dressy Interlude” describing
Melbourne s famous old the
Elock” and eminent promenaders
thereon; some further picturesque
journalistic colleagues ; and a
meeting with Henry Lawson at
Mallacoutta.)
the cannery. Homesteads all
up and down the valley, sur-
rounded by the improvements
the settlers have made. A
town there, too, with a
thousand people.”
The milkman looked at him
pityingly, then glanced to left
and right.
“There’s a thousand people
in this street, and what is it?
Nothing! If a bomb blew it
clean away you’d hardly
notice it.”
“The town's nothing,” Wint-
ner hurried to say, “it’s only a
village. The great thing is
what we’ve done to the land:
that’s what really counts. All
the beautiful farms we've
made.”
He turned to his son again:
“He should see it now,
shouldn't he, Jim?”
“Yes,” said Jim dutifully,
“he should sfee it.”
Wintner turned to the-milk-
man with purpose: “You tell
Jim what it was like when you
were a boy.”
'T'he milkman seemed reluct-
ant. He squinted through
his smoke at Wintner’s face.
Then he said grudgingly,
barely opening his mouth, and
without removing his cigarette:
“They only had one fence ;
round the boundary. That’s
all the MacPhersons improved
it. Except the slap-up home-
stead ; but that was a different
story. Me dad rode round
the boundary once a week,
propping it up, and before he
started again it was falling
down.”
“Clock-and-log,” Wintner
explained to his son. “Plenty
green timber about in those
days. Cost nothing but the
labor.”
“And was that cheap?
Gawd, I’ll say,” said the milk-
man. “Never had no boots
until I run away and earned
them meself. But the Mac-
Phersons! What a life they
had! More people, men and
women, working at the home-
stead than on all the station.
‘Yes, Mr. MacPherson,’ and
‘No, Mr. MacPherson,’ and
‘Thank you, Mr. MacPherson.’
Nearly makes me spew every
time I think of it. God, you
can have the bloody bush for
me! ”
-Wintner waited for his son
to speak.
“It’s not like that now,”
lim said.
The milkman stared, sur-
prised at being contradicted.
“It’s still a lousy life,” the
milkman said, almost vindic-
tively. “A thousand people!
What would you get in a town
like that? Not even a regular
picture-show.”
“Picture-shows aren’t that
important,” Wintner said.
“The young’uns think they
are.” He turned to Jim:
“Wouldn’t you like to be able
ta take your girl to the pictures
any night of the week?”
Jim hesitated.
“He does while he’s down
here,” Wintner said. “Or to a
play, or the ballet.”
The milkman turned to Jim
with new interest: “Brought
your girl down with you, did
you? Didn’t want to be
missing anything on your holi-
day, hey?”
This, time his wink was
unmistakably lewd.
“She lives down here,” Jim
said, resentfully.
TThe milkman settled himself
on a step for a prolonged
inquiry: “Now, how in hell
did you come to have a girl
down here?”
Jim said nothing and
avoided the avid eyes. His
father explained.
“My daughter, Jim’s sister,
goes to the university down
here. She brought Jill up
home for a holiday.”
“Ah, I see.'’’ The milkman’s
mouth was wide-open with
comprehension. “Holiday
flirtations, hey? You here ;
her there.”
This time his wink was for
the father. “There’s not much
us milkmen don’t know.
“She at the university, too?”
he demanded of Jim.
“Yes.” ‘
“Well ; there, now,” the
milkman said in triumph. “Do
you think she’ll want to waste
a university education in the
bush?”
He leaned towards Jim and
said with smug confidence:
“I’ll tell you what, son. She’ll
talk you into coming down
here. I’ll bet you a fiver she’s
been at you! And if you don’t
give in, she’ll dump you. I’ll
have another bet on that; and
I’m a bloke who doesn’t chuck
his money away.”
He sat back and gave the
Wintners a complacent, face-
splitting grin. They looked at
him, at each other, and then
away, embarrassed. But the
milkman stayed, enjoying the
last of his saturated cigarette,
and his power:
“That daughter of yours.
She’s a goner, too. She won’t
go back to the bush.”
He got to his feet in pon-
derous majesty.
“You made a mistake, Old
Timer,” he said. “If you want
to keep ’em in the bush, there's
only one way—never let ’em
see how people live down
here.”


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
O’SULUVajsj
PTY LTD
tRAD E
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC' PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
■
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
incutporalai in bnymmi
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
An Anzac Pilgrimage
How many soldiers of the
Ist A.I.F. who were actually
on Gallipoli are still alive? Or,
better still, in a sufficiently
good state of health to under-
take a visit to the old battle-
ground? Not many, no doubt,
and the number is fast getting
smaller.
The query is suggested by
something I lately heard over
the air, or read in a paper,
about a forthcoming pilgrimage
to Anzac. The cost of this
would be beyond the means of
most Old Diggers, so I would
like to suggest that the Com-
monwealth Government, which
is so fond of talking about this
era of unbounded prosperity,
make available a steamer to
be fitted-up on the lines of a
troopship—or perhaps some-
thing less Spartan could be
managed—in which all medi-
cally-fit survivors of Anzac
could make the voyage back
to Gallipoli.
Anzac Day parades and
reunions are all very well, but
I, and very many more, would
willingly give my boots (and
medals) for the chance to have
a last look at Anzac Cove and
parts thereabouts.
To stroll up Shrapnel Gully
and follow the line of trenches
"Ah, Missus ’ Arris—dis is what I call da
New Australian !”
to right and left without having
to keep the old top-knot well
down all the time. To view The
Narrows from the top of Hill
971 (Koja Chemen Tepe), that
view which only a few were
permitted to see. To have a
look at what remains of the
Lone Pine trenches. To look
down on the plain at Suvla
Bay, where the unfortunate
Tommies copped it from
Johnny Turk. To make an
Anzac rissole out of tinned
beef and pounded-up Army-
biscuit and wash it down with
billy-tea made on the spot.
That would be a better meal
than any turned-on at a
reunion, and the customary
lashins of beer would not be
missed. To sail in and out of
Lemnos Harbor and recall the
old Southland, which 1 last saw
beached just inside the entrance.
To gaze once again at the out-
line of Achi Baba away beyond
the olive-grove where Beachy
Bill used to fire from ; and
to survey the island of Imbros
at sunset.
I don’t know how such a
contingent as I’m suggesting
would be received in Egypt, but
old Nasser might prove a sport
and allow the delights of Cairo
to be sampled again (unfortu-
nately, though, in a more
restrained vein). No doubt
many would like to spend an
hour or so wandering through
the Ezbe k i a h Gardens
(although no British military
band would be playing there)
and the Wazir quarter, where
that other famous sort of
battle was fought so gallantly.
Afternoon-tea at Groppis
would bring back memories, if
that delectable spot is still
there, and a drink at Shep-
heards Hotel would now be in
order for those of other than
commissioned rank.
I could go on indefinitely in
this strain, but my purpose is
merely to sow a seed in the
hope that either the R.S.L. or
some imaginative Federal
politician will take the matter
up and see what can be done.
Lately I saw two large
steamers of the Australian
National line tied-up at Gee-
long whaff. They were said
to be awaiting sale. I’d like
to suggest that before the sale
one of those steamers —or both
if necessary—be made avail-
able for the pilgrimage.
No elaborate accommoda-
tion would be necessary: the
ship could be run on military
lines with some mild sort of
discipline. Men making the
pilgrimage could put up the
“spending - money,” provided
the ship and accommodation
aboard were found by the
Federal Government.
Is it too much to hope that
before next Anzac Day some-
thing will be done? I trust
not, and will accordingly make
a search for the old crown-
and-anchor board. Ceg
(Vic.).
Observation Blues
Judging by ‘ Bulletin
accounts of their activities, the
coast-watchers were more
reliable in their ground-to-air
observations than were Fleet
Air Arm observers in air-to-
surface reports during the early
days of War 11.
Air-crews, though highly
trained in aircraft-recognition,
were notoriously deficient
when it came to which end
of a ship was which. The fol-
lowing cases were given in
1943 by the F.A.A. official
organ, “Flight Deck.”
During the hunt for the
Bismarck a Swordfish signalled
“I’ve found him!” and loosed-
off at the cruiser Sheffield.
Later in the same chase a
Swordfish dropped through a
break in the clouds and sig-
nalled to the warship below:
“No sign of him!” Bismarck
chased him back into the
cloud with some pretty accurate
flak.
But the worst boner came
from a kite which spotted a
Jap ship on the horizon and
just had time to estimate its
course before turning back for
base. The planes which went
hunting the ship couldn’t find
it, and it turned-up later a long
way off in the opposite direc-
tion. When the observer of


f'Cbctjfl' 4M / t' Hie
Fuiui'c
One glance at the map should convince us
that Australia’s large-scale expansion in the
coming years is going to be in the North.
The past has produced, and the future will
confirm, the high achievements in the southern
half of the continent; in settlement, the creation
of great cities, the building of industries that
stand in powerful balance of the economy.
Development elsewhere can only add to that
established performance.
Geography alone compels our gaze to the
North. Nearly forty per cent, of the Australian
land-mass lies above the Tropic of Capricorn. And
there, in the upper half of this country, is our chief
reserve of new productive strength.
Its performance is to be defined by more than
area. The North is a storehouse of vast mineral
wealth, much of it in sight and waiting to be won.
It is the centre of the beef cattle industry, now in
a phase of brisk expansion.
And it is also a region where scientific
successes on soils and pastures have changed
completely the agricultural and pastoral picture.
The land research division of the Commonwealth
Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation
has estimated that we could add fifty million
pounds a year to the national income by proper
use of the new knowledge gained on northern lands.
Awakening has begun. Queensland is showing
active awareness of its diverse northern resources.
The Northern Territory is working this year to a
record budget for development. Western Australia,
with Federal assistance, is devoting extra funds to
the rich Kimberleys.
With everything that is being done there is
still, as yet, only an outline of what is most surely
forming in the full Australian pattern.
The detail will need to be filled in quickly,
uncomplicated by considerations of borders or
imaginary lines on a map. For I believe that the
speed with which we develop the North in the next
few years will set the pace for Australia’s total
advancement in the rest of this century.
the recce plane was quizzed
the unhappy youth was dis-
covered to have judged the
Jap’s course by the way the
smoke trailed out behind it.
In reality the ship was steam-
ing with a strong wind, so that
the smoke “trailed” in front!
—Tabba (Q.).
British Colonial Policy
I agree with former Chief
Justice Sir John Latham’s
statement, at a Rotary Club
luncheon, that Australians
should treat Asians “on the
basis of frank friendship and
as human equals.” But I dis-
pute his further statement:
1 consider Great Britain lost
what was called her Empire in the
East on account of the bad manners
of so many of the people who were
there —their arrogance, impoliteness,
lack of consideration, and acting
as a master-race.
Where the U.K. in this
century has abandoned control
of colonially governed terri-
tories, in the East or elsewhere,
it has been done voluntarily as
part of a process that began
in the mid-19th century, when
self-government was conceded
to those European-peopled
colonies politically and eco-
nomically mature enough to
stand on their own feet. In
certain colonies there have
been serious obstacles to local
self - government religious,
racial and tribal divisions, ex-
ploited by a power determined
to retain control. British
effort has rather been directed
to smoothing-over difficulties
and persuading diverse ele-
ments to co-operate.
Local agitation for inde-
pendence has been spearheaded
by intellectuals, often educated
at British schools and univer-
sities, and not representative
of the communities they claim
to speak for. These people
could not seriously have im-
perilled British rule if Downing
Street, backed by British
public opinion, had been deter-
mined to maintain it.
General Richard Hilton, in
his book on the Indian Mutiny,
sums-up the attitude of the
people of India to British rule
in the 20th century, and
remarks that there was no truth
in the claim that there was
widespread resentment against
it:
Observant and impartial
foreigners, travelling through
British India during the latter days
of our rule, often used to express
amazement at the lightness of touch
with which we ruled vast provinces
and teeming populations. In many
hundred miles’ journeying one might
see only a single white man, the
lone representative of the para-
mount power. Many military
stations were devoid of any British
unit. Many large cities were con-
trolled entirely by Indian magistrates
and police.
That has been true also of
the other non-self-governing
areas of the Empire.— Cunedda
(N.S.W.).
Balance of Nature
Norway, which a few years
ago made a drive to extermi-
nate hawks and falcons prey-
ing upon its grouse, found
that, after some temporary in-
crease, grouse became much
scarcer. Similarly, destruction
of Poland’s fish-eating otters
resulted in an initial increase of
fish, followed by a growing
scarcity.
Elsewhere, predators once
killed as enemies are now
recognised as friends. In
British East Africa leopards, in
spite of their raids on live-
stock and poultry, have been
protected ; they keep in check
wild-pigs arid baboons, which
otherwise would devastate agri-
cultural areas.
In other parts of Africa the
thinning-out of lions allowed
zebras to increase until they
threatened to eat-out the
countryside.
Ranchers in the Mississippi
basin (U.S.A.), having killed-
off the alligators which took
calves occasionally, found
themselves obliged, by greater
losses from dried-out land, to
import alligators so that their
wallows could again slow-
down streams and keep the
country watered. Asian
countries, warned by this, con-
sider the crocodile’s toll of
domestic animals and human
lives is far outweighed by its
value as a destroyer of reptiles,
shellfish and crustaceans more
detrimental to their agricultural
economy.
A special Missouri com-
mission found that, though the
coyotes in a test-area destroyed
livestock worth £250, they also
destroyed mice and rats
capable of doing £350-worth
of crop-damage, thereby saving
farmers £lOO. Colorado
farmers, too, found that the
calves saved by killing coyotes
did not make-up for the
destruction done by the in-
creased numbers of rats and
rabbits.
It may be, then, that our
wedgetailed - eagles, which
destroy a few lambs—and even
our dingoes, which are esti-
mated to kill two-million calves
and lambs annually more
than compensate for this by
destroying rabbits, kangaroos,
wallabies and other creatures
competing with cattle and


sheep for our none-too-plenti-
ful pastures.
A case could also be made
for the black-cockatoo, con-
demned as a bark-stripper
which jeopardises forests, but
really a tree-savior destroying
such more-deadly tree-borers
as the larvae of the longicorn-
beetle. The crow, another
sheep- and lamb-killer, is
valuable as a scavenger and
destroyer of grasshoppers and
other insect-pests. Even the
fox eats rabbits and other
vermin as well as lambs,
poultry and native birds.
Predators, by wiping-out the
unfit and diseased, ensure
healthier stock; and they
check the spread of potentially
greater pests. They are thus
part of Nature’s intricate
balance, and should be con-
trolled rather than eliminated.
Even the hippopotamus,
seemingly negligible to man,
has, surprisingly, an important
role in maintaining this balance.
Its droppings provide the neces-
sary fertiliser to stimulate, in
East African rivers and lakes,
the growth of the phyto-
plankton upon which feed the
native tilapias and other fish
cultivated there in great fish-
farming ventures. Ymar
(Vic.).
Historic Buildings
In the list of buildings
recommended for preservation
hv the National Trust I have
seen no mention of any
country buildings, yet many of
these might well be more
worthy of preservation than
some included in the list.
For instance, there are the
buildings erected in the 1840’s
by Ben Boyd at Twofold Bay
(N.S.W.). The lighthouse which
has never shown a light be-
cause Boyd intended to light it
only when one of his own ships
was expected is in splendid
condition, having been built of
Pyrmont sandstone. There is
the old church which was never
completed, never dedicated and
never heard a service ; and
there is the old Sea Horse Inn.
Restoration of Boyd’s buildings
would greatly help Twofold
Bay to gain the fame it
deserves.
Less than a hundred miles
away, at Nimmitabel, there still
remains the quaint round tower
of the first flourmill erected on
the southern Monaro. Origi-
nally it was worked by four
great wings driven round by
the wind ; but the shadows of
the revolving wings scared so
many horses that the towns-
people strongly protested, and
the wings were taken down.
The mill was then operated
by horses.
Nimmitabel is not far from
Cooma and the great Snowy
"G' day , driver—spare a droppa hot-Water from
the engine ?”
Mountains. In the future
thousands of people from all
over the world will be attracted
to this region by the spectacle
of the hydroelectric under-
taking. Restoration of the old
mill would add an historic
touch to the surroundings.
There are many such
historic buildings in other parts
of the country, too ; and unless
something is done to prevent
their demolition they will be
lost assets. — Eureka (N.S.W.).
Letting Them Eat Cake
.Sir Arthur Bryant, from
whose book The Age of
Elegance I drew the feeding-
statistics of English workers in
the late 18th century (B.
9/ 9/ ’59), is one of the leading
British historians of today.
Broad-minded and thorough in
research, he is an authority on
the period. He devoted several
pages to the subject, giving a
number of examples other than
those I cited, and quoting from
contemporary writers.
Hammond’s Village Laborer,
which “8.E.D.” cites as pre--
senting a very different pic-
ture (B. 23/9/’59), was by no
means free from prejudice. Its
accuracy as a general picture
of conditions has been criti-
cised by a number of modern
students of the period.
Wages in 18th Century Eng-
land, by Elizabeth W. Gilboy,
is a well-documented book on
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 561
Across
I—Access by such charms. (9)
6—Meat available by way of North Dakota. (5)
9—A turnip mashed by transport to town. (7)
10— I like this feature of a prisoner’s window data on
feather. (7)
11— Port vessel to turn the stomach. (3)
12 — Belgian city overlord. (s)'
13— Main-road progress. (7)
15—Dates are vice. (7)
17 —Possibly some mushroom frivolity
w ; th Bluett. (6)
19—Blubber. (3)
21 — Spot given with water above 32
degrees F. (6)
22 — Word opposing an entry in the
Roman roll of citizens at the
time of Caesar’s death? (7)
24 — Sweet artist swallowed by one
with the hump. (7)
25 Craft up to it in sauce. (5)
27 Hop out of a shop’s quad-
ruped. (3)
28— Malicious gossip by a boy who
lives around Barcelona? (7)
30 — Light fifty with an aquatic
fowl. (7)
31 — In the role of rion-amateur
sedative. (5)
32 — They rule them with publishing
plant. (9)
Down
1 — Curiously cautioned schools
provide it. (9)
2 Baby Baba’s given a rather rocky
mount what you can bet on! (11)
3 One of 1-across consists of valu-
able stone. (5)
4 Strives for a hundred on
dd.ddd.d.dd.dd. (8)
5 Inconsiderable cut. (6)
6 Music for strings knocks a devil
out. (5, 4)
7 A Georgia potentate of some
influence. (3)
8 — Dark of the alienated heaven. (5)
14 —State to leave the north-west
scoundrels which rolled pioneers
up into America’s north-
west. (5-6)
16 —Mail close disturbed this bull-
fighter. (9)
18 —Intervals during which Jews hold
on. (9)
20 —Congratulate pals. (8)
23 — Leg slip may stop this look. (6)
24 — Firms provided with a drink. (5)
26—Unrelaxed present or past,
perhaps. (5)
29 —Unsurpassed spinner. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 560


Divorce Notices
TO COLIN CAMERON formerly of 64
McMillan Street Victoria Park Western
Australia —TAKE NOTICE that your
wife VILMA JUNE CAMERON has
commenced proceedings against you in
the Supreme Court of Western Australia
for Divorce on the ground that you have
been guilty of desertion of, the Plaintiff
for a continuous period of three years
or more. If you desire to defend such
proceedings you must file your defence
or counterclaim in the Central Office
of the Supreme Court at Perth within
FORTY CLEAR DAYS from the date of
this publication In default of your so
doing the cause may proceed and the
Court may pronounce judgment and
make orders against you in your
absence. Dated this 21st day of Sep-
tember, One thousand nine hundred and
fifty-nine.—G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
H. A. READ, 7 Sherwood Court, Perth,
Western Australia, Solicitor for the
Plaintiff.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO JOHN EWAN KNOX late of 7 Paul
Street Balmain in the State of New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
WILLIAM ALBERT HARRADINE has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1683
of, 1958 on the ground of adultery and
iB asking for the exercise of the Court’s
discretion under S. 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 30th November 1959 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. ALFRED ROFE
& SONS, Solicitors, of 26 O’Connell
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
HOW TO HAVE SEWERAGE
IN A NON-SEWERED AREA
I SSSSiiHi
sg§,r
CONVENIENTLY
ATTACHED TO HOUSE
. . . NEAT AS A FLUSH
TOILET.
HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
STERILE SANITARY SYSTEM
OFFICIALLY TESTED AND APPROVED BY
N.S.W. BOARD OF HEALTH.
These tests proved conclusively that the effluent from the Dissolvenator
is bacterially sterile.
40,000 INSTALLED THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of sewerage
no matter where your home may be,
NO GERMS . . NO EMPTYING . . NO ODOURS
NO FLIES . . NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU CAN INSTALL IT! The simple instruction-card supplied
makes it possible for any handyman to install a Hygeia.
WRITE NOW FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET.
Distributors:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pfcy. Ltd.,
VIC.: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Vic.) Pty.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.)
W.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co., G.P.O.
TAS.: Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins
QLD.: Plumbers Supplies Pty. Ltd., 177
26 Bridge St., Sydney.
Ltd., Bay Rd., Cheltenham.
Ltd., 41 King William St., Adelaide.
Box 1704 T, Perth.
St., Hobart. Launceston and Burnie.
Barry Pde., Valley, Brisbane.
“ Hmm —Channel Ten!”
the subject, and thoroughly
impartial. The pattern she
presents coincides substantially
with Bryant’s. Despite some
black patches, there was, over-
all, a rise in wages and living-
standards among the English
working-class in the Napo-
leonic War period. Conditions
were highest, in both rural and
secondary industry, in the
north. The London region
came next. Conditions were
worst in the west and south-
west.
Widespread variations in
wage-rates and other factors
make generalisation difficult.
For example, the Rev. Becher
testified before a committee of
the Lords that in the years after
1812 the Nottingham lace-
makers, due to the invention
of machines by some of them,
had risen from a depressed
state to high prosperity, many
earning £lO a week. This, of
course, was exceptional; but
it illustrates the wide variation
in workers’ earnings in the
period.
Money-wages were generally
only a part often a small
part —of the worker’s earnings:
there were varied perquisites.
Many workers, even in
secondary industry, much of
which was then in rural
regions, had small holdings
and kept a pig or two and a
cow.
Enclosure of the common-
lands was spread over a long
period ; and there was actually
a rise in the number of small
yeomen between 1789-1802.
Wives and children added to
family - income through
cottage - industries, harvest-
work, etc. Henry Warren, in
Corn Country, says a proficient
gleaner could gather six weeks’
supply of wheat at harvest-
time. An old countrywoman
told S. P. B. Mais that in her
mid-Victorian youth she had
gleaned enough to provide
bread for the whole winter.
Countryfolk were also skilled
at using wild berries and fruits,
making a great variety of
nourishing drinks such as
dandelion-wine, cowslip-wine,
etc.
Gronow, of the Guards,
comparing French and British
soldiers’ fare, said the broth
of the French would never do
for the British, who had to
have meat twice a day.
“Cobbett,” says Bryant,
“using the measuring-rod of
what was customary in his
youth, declared that a working-
class family of five needed
daily 51b. bread, 21b. bacon,
lib. mutton, gallons of
beer.”
Farington, the artist, com-
plains in his diary that Eng-
lish working-people were so
finicky in their food-tastes that
they wouldn’t touch hake, a
fish he described as both
nourishing and cheap, and
eaten regularly by Conti-
nentals of much higher social
status.
Sir Arthur Bryant’s remark
that most of the large volume
of food consumed in early
19th-century London must
have gone into working-class
homes is reasonable. It could
hardly have been eaten mainly
by the upper- and middle-
classes, hearty feeders though
they were.
Jt is debatable whether most
people who took to thieving ; n
those days were primarily
activated by necessity. There
was no effective police-force
anywhere in England until Sir
Robert Peel established his new-
model London Constabulary in
the 1820’s. Crime was far
easier to get, away with than
nowadays.
In the maritime counties,'
where smuggling had always
been fashionable, there was a
tradition of lawlessness. Sup-
pression of smuggling became
far more effective in this period
(see Admiral Arnold-Forster’s
At War with the Smugglers
and Patrick Pringle’s Honest
Thieves). According to Dr.
Esme Wingfield-Stratford, in
The Squire and His Relations,
it was in these areas that rural
unrest, with its rioting and rick-
burning, was most pronounced.
—Farinmail (N.S.W.).


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
BRIGALOW
[From “Rodger”]
'T'hirty-five years ago the
part of Queensland west of
Warra and Chinchilla was a
farmer’s nightmare. Prickly-
pear grew saddle-high, with
tracks cut through it by wal-
labies and cattle which
struggled to eke out a meagre
existence on a ration of scrub-
grass and pear. In a very dry
season the stock lived on pear
alone.
Attempting to cope with the
pear, some settlers tried singe-
ing the spines off with a primi-
tive prototype of the modern
flame-thrower. The machine
was worked by a fan turned
by hand, but it had little value.
Then arsenic - pentoxide,
injected into the base of the
plants with the stabber, was
tried. Arsenic is not easy to
handle—spill it on the toughest
work-clothes and they rot in
next to no time. Apart from
that, the settlers had to battle
their way through a wall of
spiny pear to get near enough
to the base of the plant to
A plan to promote the
sale of wool in Japan
and the Far East will
be boosted by a sub-
stantial contribution
from the International
Wool Secretariat. This
campaign will extend
over three years. The
Elastrator Rubber Ring
method of Castration
and Tailing greatly
reduces the risk of fly-
strike because Elastra-
tor Rubber Rings leave
no open wounds.
Lambs Castrated and
Tailed by Elastrator
escape many dangers
of shock, setback and
disease which may assail
lambs that are Cas-
trated and Tailed by old-
fashioned methods.
inject the poison. And if they
wanted to plough the ground
the dead mass of pear had to
be grubbed-out and burnt.
The best that could be hoped
for was to clear about 50
acres and keep it clean. This
wasn’t easy, even after the
stuff was killed. Birds con-
tinually dropped seed from
“Bang! Bang!"
ripe pear-fruit; the seed grew
fast, and was almost as hard
to control as the original pear.
Then came the cactoblastis,
which cleaned-out square-miles
of pear while you sat in the
shade and watched. Over-
night, poison and stabbers
were abandoned, while the
moths laid eggs as fast as
meat-ants and the grubs waxed
fat on the pear.
The first phase in the Battle
of Brigalow had been won.
But that was only the initial
operation of the campaign to
subdue brigalow and bring
back this vast tract of fertile
country to full production.
Much of the brigalow was
too scattered and thin to fell
with the axe and get a good
burn. This method of clearing
had proved successful further
north, in the Upper Burnett
and Callide Valley, where
brigalow was much thicker.
You could fell it in winter
and burn it in early spring.
Because there was so much
dead timber on the ground
the fire was nearly always
fierce and burned clean, leav-
ing the land covered with a
blanket of rich ash.
In the thinner scrubs of the
south it was a different story.
Unless you could get a real
scorcher of a burn and follow
this with a heavy sowing of,
say, Rhodes-grass, you were
chased off the place by
suckers. It was hard to get
any such clean burn in that
sort of country. ,
So the second phase of the
operation seesawed backwards
and forwards up to the end of
War 11. By that time a few
bulldozers were making their
way out to the western dis-
tricts. With a blade, or ball-
and-chain, they could knock
down acres in a day. The
’dozer, too, banked the timber
into lines, where it was left
to dry-out before being fired.
These machines could do in a
day what would take a scrub-
faller weeks to do, and the
man with the axe could not
push the felled stuff into those
lines for a clean burn.
But that wasn’t the whole
story. Further north, where
the scrub was thick enough to
allow a good burn, there was
a time-lag before the land
could be cleared for the
plough. In that interval
stumps and roots had to dry-
out so they could be burnt-off.
Most of the clearing was done
by hand, with benefit of a
grubber and a stout heart —
and this was the method used
to clear the Upper Burnett
and Callide Valley.
Farmers in the brigalow-belt
to the south were more for-
tunate. By the time their turn
came, modern rippers, blades
and stick-harrows were avail-
able to clear the land ready
for ploughing in the one year.
With ploughs big enough to
do the job quickly, a crop
could be taken off without
time being wasted.
At first the cost of hiring
this equipment was high ; but
as more and more blades were
fitted to tractors, and more
and more ’dozers were avail-
able for contract-work, the
price came down to a reason-
able level. Scrub is being pre-
pared for the plough now at a
cost ranging from £5 to £9
an acre. Comparing this with
the price of felling brigalow
further north and then waiting
a few years before the ground
could be cleared for the
plough, an average cost of
even £8 an acre is not too
high for this new country.
So far, all the emphasis has
been placed on getting the
ground ready for the plough.
Brigalow can be put to other
uses. It can be frill-rung and
left for several years. The
scrub dies quickly and is soon
covered with a sward of native
grass which can be helped
along by a light sowing with
Rhodes-grass. After fat-stock
have been raised on rung
country for several years it is
in fine fettle for the plough.
The dead timber is easily
pushed-down, and, raked into
lines, it burns to fine ash. Also,
the dead timber can be pulled
out without a great clod of
earth coming with it; and so
levelling is made much easier.
Of course, the brigalow-belt
is subject to severe storms;
and three or four inches of
heavy rain can do a lot of
damage, because the rich,
black scrub-soil rests on a
deep bed of clay, and it
doesn’t take much heavy rain
to shift the topsoil off. When
this happens you will grow
precious little in the clay.
So soil-erosion is a problem,
though it can be controlled
by contouring and by rota-
tion. The holdings are large
enough in most cases to allow
some of the older cultivated
land to go back to grass. This
stops erosion and builds-up the
soil. Old cultivated wheat-
land grows excellent grass;
break-up the grass-country
and you grow good wheat.
The western brigalow-belt
is not far behind the Darling
Downs when it comes to
wheat-yields to the acre, and
it’s a shade better in regard
to protein-content of the
wheat. Wheat grown on
scrub-land averages about 1
per cent., or a little higher,
for protein.
Lately I made my first trip
back to the brigalow-belt after
nearly 20 years’ absence.
Without question the place is
fairly going ahead. I travelled
over miles of first-class bitu-
men roads practically all the
way from Toowoomba to


ffi/yAS
■
m
w*
M
I II
steel - wood - steel members give
unequalled structural strength —
and simplicity of construction!
The world's most versatile frame-
work—ideal for shearers' quarters,
cottages and homesteads. The
Bowas principle (cypress pine held
rigid on both sides by mild steel
members up to iin. thick) provides
a framework (surpassed only by
brick) of immense strength. Designs
conform to Rural Workers' Accom-
modation Act—free from dry rot,
white ants, etc.
Only Bowas allows future altera-
tions without major alterations . . •
only Bowas can be dismantled and
re - erected without framework
damage.
Bowes Constructions Limited -qp.
• Williams Parade (off Constitution Rd.), Dulwich Hill,
N.S.W. LM 5201, LM 7886.
• Railway Parade, Rockiea, Queensland. 47-1692.
Please forward, without obligation, the FREE illustrated
folder showing advantages and uses of the Bowas
patented wood and steel construction principle.
NAME
ADDRESS
Roma. There are long
stretches of bitumen around
Miles, Wandoan, Taroom and
Chinchilla. Wheat-dumps are
scattered all along the western
railway-line. There’s even a
large bulk-dump at Uluma-
roa, because bulk-handling is
just as popular out there as
in the closer-settled black-soil
plains. Sheep and cattle seem
to top-off well, the wool-clip
is up to average, and dairy-
farms around Chinchilla, Miles
and Wandoan show that the
district is not limited to meat
and grain.
Living in the near-west has
lost most of its terrors. Air-,
road- and rail-services are of
the standard of closer-settled
parts. Miles and Chinchilla
can supply all the needs of the
district, and are modern
towns into the bargain. Miles,
with its greenbelt running
through, is one of the best-
laid-out towns you will see
anywhere in the State.
Naturally, if the brigalow-
belt is “mined” it will soon
play-out. Soil-erosion and
suckers will drive owners off
their land. But if cultivation-
paddocks are rotated with
grass, and if the land is not
overstocked, it could become
one of the richest parts of
Queensland.
Droughts are not uncommon
in the 27in.-rainfall country,
so provision must be made
for them. A reasonable level
of stocking and silage to last
through dry times seems to be
the best proposition. In the
rush to get the most out of the
land after so much hard work,
such simple things as a reserve
of grain and silage to save
the country and the stock in
a drought may be overlooked.
Breeding-heifers
“Saw”: Dairy-cattle experts
advocate selection of herd-
replacements from proven
families, maintaining that stock
from these are most likely to
succeed. This does not apply
so readily in beef-cattle,
especially females.
Breeding Angus vealers, I
find the best cows don’t neces-
sarily breed the most suitable
heifers for future vealer-
production. There are rare
exceptions, of course—perhaps
an outstanding cow will pro-
duce a succession of daughters
equally as good as herself —
but generally speaking the
progeny fatten at an early age
and bring in a quick return as
vealers.
If retained for breeding, the
heifers tend to become overfat,
leading to trouble getting them
in calf and, quite often, to
calving-difficulties.
When a calf finally arrives it
has to battle for a living, since
the cow puts all its feed into
excess fat, at the expense of
its milk-supply. As a result the
calf is slow to get a start and
is small for its age.
However, once weaned and
put on to good pasture, it will
grow rapidly, although it may
be rather slow to fatten. The
steers are fit for sale at two
years, and usually make even
better bullocks at three.
Strange as it may seem, the
heifers, having had such a lean
time themselves, are good
foragers and make excellent
mothers, always provided they
are well-grown and developed
—any small ones are better
fattened.
Therefore, in a large herd,
there is some merit in retain-
ing the fat heifers from good
cows to breed your herd-
replacements. And there is
consolation in the fact that
milk-production usually im-
proves with age!
Mechanical
Peanut-harvesting
“Myall”: The peanut-
industry 'at Kingaroy (Q.) will
be completely mechanised
within a few years. Lately an
auto-harvester was successfully
demonstrated, and now crops
may be dug, stooked and har-
vested by machinery, while
four men are able to harvest
a field in half the time taken
by 20 men using old hand-
picking methods.
The machines, designed by
two untrained local men and
manufactured in Kingaroy, are
a puller, stooker and har-
vester. The puller gathers
plants up from the soil, shakes
them free from dirt and leaves
them in neat rows, ready for
stooking. Over 120 of these
machines are now working in
the district, and plans are
under way to export them to
the United States.
The stooker makes the
plants in the rows into neat
hive-shaped piles for drying.
The machine clears from 10
acres to 15 acres a day—a
good man can stook only an
acre in the same time. It’s
claimed that this is the first
machine of its kind to be
invented.
When the nuts are
thoroughly dry the harvester
gathers the piles of plants,
strips off and bags the nuts
and discards unwanted stalks.
Another local invention is
an improved mechanical cutter,
for chopping the roots of the
plants underground.
By speeding peanut-harvest-
ing these various machines
will revolutionise the industry,
saving growers time and
money.
Radiator Trouble
“Dune”: Tractor - engine
overheating for no apparent
reason —only light loading, yet
she persists in boiling—when
you’ve checked just about
everything?
Perhaps you haven’t closely
examined the radiator - core
itself?
Hidden, as it invariably is,
behind a false front, you are
apt to overlook the fact that
dust, grass-seeds, insects and
all kinds of rubbish have been
drawn in between the fine tubes
by the fan-draught.
Naturally, you will not go
poking at it with a bit of wire,
but you can dislodge most of
the rubbish with a strong jet


KITCHING'S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street,
SYDNEY
m
m
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Blanches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and A. Mcwilliams,
O’Connell Sts., Manager
Sydney.
of water and a good deal of
patience. An ordinary garden-
spray or a knapsack-spray will
do the job admirably, but if
the foreign matter is well dug-
in—and it will be, if the job
has not been done before, and
if the grass-seeds and the
’hoppers have been bad —then
you’d better get the radiator
right off the tractor, lay it flat
on a pair of trestles and work
from up top.
However you do it, and
however long it takes you, the
job is worth while and your
engine will respond by being
very cool towards you after-
wards.
"Test-tube" Foaling
“Amateur Breeder”: As
things stand, production of
foals by artificial insemination
is, to all intents, banned by
registration authorities of both
thoroughbreds and trotters.
Most State Governments
have legislated to prevent its
use by anyone except qualified
registered persons. The point
of view of keepers of stud-
books is, perhaps, that if 500
yearlings by the same sire were
to be offered at the sales one
year the result might be con-
fusing. Yet if that was done
from proven sires it would be
the quickest way of improving
the general quality of all stock.
However, apart from show-
horses, hunters, ponies, etc.,
any horse produced by artificial
insemination in Australia is
excluded from stud-books.
In Russia they are going
ahead with research in this
field, and there are thousands
of farms throughout the Soviet
Union where hundreds of
mares become pregnant to a
single (proven) stallion in the
course of the season. There
are still some technical diffi-
culties in this mass-production,
but, once the problems are
solved by Soviet scientists, it
looks as if the type of horse
produced in Russia may go
ahead, quite literally, by leaps
and bounds.
Cattle-tick
Re “Kaytee’s” item (B.
1/7/”59), with due respect to
the C.5.1.R.0., I can say from
my own experience with cattle-
tick that control-dipping is a
mistaken policy. In the course
of time the tick gradually be-
comes resistant to any and
every remedy used.
The only answer is complete
extermination, right from the
start. If at every dipping a
100 per cent, kill is obtained,
then no resistance can be
formed. Here, in northern sub-
tropical Argentina, we dipped
only to control the tick for
about 20 years. Then suddenly,
in 1935, I found I could no
longer kill enough tick to pre-
vent “tick-worry.”
I went to the U.S.A. to find
out American methods, and
was told that they had com-
pletely cleaned their country
by using “Cooper’s 18” —that
is Cooper’s arsenical dip with
the arsenic trioxide at .18 per
cent. They went at the exter-
mination baldheaded as soon
as they learnt that tick is the
carrier of red-water fever.
From the States I went to
Australia and saw Dr. John
Legg about my troubles, but
in 1939 Legg had had no
experience of any resistance
and had had no complaints
about the failure of any dip.
However, in 1941 he wrote to
me saying that owners and
managers were then writing to
say they could no longer kill
the tick as before.
In 1955 Dr. Legg did all the
experimental work for Geigy’s
new dip based on organic
phosphorus and proved that
a 100 per cent, kill can be
obtained with a mixture not
toxic to cattle. However, I am
sure that if this new prepara-
tion is used at anything less
than a 100 per cent, kill, a
resistance will be formed by
the tick. — F. H. Finch, Calle
Alvear No. 1, Apostoles,
Misiones, Argentina.
Canary-seed for Pigs
“Wilga”: However care-
fully canary-seed is harvested
a fair proportion will be
broken in the operation, and
this cracked grain reduces the
value of the article unless it
is removed. But it can be
converted into cash by feeding
it, previously crushed, to pigs.
Trials at the Hermitage (Q.)
Experimental Station have
shown that up to 40 per cent,
of canary-seed may satisfac-
torily be used in the ration.
Carcasses showed clean, white
fat, without any objectionable
odor, and flesh-development
was good and the dressing-out
percentage high.
Two groups of pigs were
tested. One received 20 per
cent, of the total ration as
canary-seed; the other was
given 40 per cent. The ones
on the 20-per-cenU ration
showed slightly better results ;
they grew faster, their fat was
firmer and the conversion-
iate better.
Analysis of canary - seed
shows its food value to be
only slightly lower than that
of other grains, and in pro-
ducing-areas broken seed and
gradings may be purchased
very cheaply, thus reducing
feeding-costs.
Queensland's
Tea-party
Oince 1936 scientists have
been investigating the possi-
bility of growing tea on a
commercial basis in Australia.
They established the country’s
first tea-plantation and have
studied every aspect of culti-
vation.
These men of the Bureau of
Tropical Agriculture are now
certain that tea can be grown
commercially in Queensland,
and that its quality will com-
pare favorably with the better
lines of imported “lowland”
leaf.
Repercussions of this investi-
gation may extend throughout
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(8/10/’59)
Queensland should receive good rains during November,
with heavy falls in the central and northern coastal districts,
and the central-west and south-western areas. Flooding may
occur in those areas, particularly in the south-western
divisions.
N.S.W. is probably in for heavy general rains during
November, with heaviest falls on the n.-w. slopes and plains,
the central tablelands and the central-western and south-
western districts. Reasonably good rains are likely in
December.
Victoria can expect heavy rains during November,
with flooding in many areas. Moderate rain should Con-
tinue in December, though light in the Mallee and Wimmera
districts.
South Australia should have reasonably good rains
during November, although rainfall may become patchy and
generally below normal during December.
In Western Australia there should be reasonably good
rains in the south-west agricultural areas during November,
with best falls in the centre-coastal districts. Rainfall may
be patchy and below normal elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


ONE OF THE FINEST FARMS
IN N.-E. VICTORIA
350 acres of very best fattening pastures, suit
beef cattle, vealers, fat lambs. River frontage.
Modern home. Electricity. Water.
EDWARD HAUGHTON,
379 Collins St., Melbourne, Victoria. MB 1808.
CHEVIOTS FOR FAT LAMBS
WALSON 3rd Annual Sale
Mt. Barker. Thursday, 29th October, 1959 —2 p.m.
H. R. Walsh & Son (the pioneers of Cheviot in
Australia) will offer for sale on the property
22 STUD AND SELECTED FLOCK RAMS
25 SPECIALLY SELECTED STUD EWES
(Ewes with lambs at foot)
CHEVIOTS, with their well-defined characteristics, are
particularly suitable for CROSS BREEDING, and
mated to any breed of sheep, will produce outstanding
first-grade, choice FAT LAMBS.
ASK ANY BREEDER WHO HAS
USED CHEVIOTS
CHEVIOT EWES are also recognised throughout the
world as the best of mothers, with remarkable milk
production*.
2\ per cent, rebate allowed to livestock agents
introducing buyers before the sale.
Agents: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LIMITED,
who will send catalogues on application.
the entire tea-industry. Re-
search already carried-out has
produced the idea of mechani-
cal harvesting. In fact, develop-
ment of a suitable mechanical
harvester is all that now stands
between Australia and a
domestic tea-industry worth
£l6 million a year.
To appreciate the full signi-
ficance of what’s going on in
Queensland it is necessary to
understand something of the
economics of the tea-industry
and how this affects the Com-
monwealth.
Australians are the world’s
fourth-biggest group of tea-
drinkers and its third-largest
importers. The cost of tea is
increasing at the rate of more
than £1 million a year. The
claim that tea is still the cheap-
est drink next to water holds
good only in British Common-
wealth countries, but political
upheavals in Ceylon, Indonesia
and India must inevitably force
prices up. In Ceylon, where
Tamil laborers once received
lid. a day, the law now en-
sures plantation-workers a
minimum of 4s. 4|d. a day and
planters are compelled to pro-
vide medical care and free
primary schooling for 625,000
estate-workers.
Against this background of
rising prices abroad and ex-
panding consumption at home
the only way out is to stimu-
late a home-industry. The
Bureau of Tropical Agriculture
set-out to do this on an experi-
mental station at South
Johnstone, near Innisfail (Q.).
Tea is an evergreen plant
with a white blossom, like the
camellia, to which family it
belongs. Cultivation is re-
stricted to wet tropical areas
and countries where there is
an abundance of cheap labor.
North Queensland has the
climate, but no cheap labor. At
the outset, it was obvious that
the biggest problem would be
harvesting.
In its natural state the plant
grows as high as 40ft., but only
the “flush” or top-leaves are
plucked, so growth must be
controlled to permit easy
harvesting. Five years must
elapse between planting and
picking.
It was not until 1950 that
most of the basic agricultural
problems had been weeded-
out. That year plucking-trials
were held to provide exact data
on the cost of hand-harvesting
under Queensland labor-con-
ditions.
First it was necessary to
determine the black-tea equiva-
lent of fresh green leaf. It was
at this stage that the bureau
became involved in the manu-
facturing-process. “We had to
set-up a curing-plant and go
through the complex process of
withering the leaf, rolling and
fermenting it,” says T. G.
Graham, formerly officer-in-
charge of the South Johnstone
Station, and now agrostolo-
gist at Rockhampton (Q.).
Withering reduces the leaf’s
moisture, causing it to wilt;
it is the first step in manu-
facturing, and does not require
special equipment. Rolling
ruptures the cells, liberates
juices on to leaf surfaces and
starts fermentation. This is the
most important stage in pro-
cessing black tea.
Because of inexperience and
lack of equipment the bureau’s
early attempts at manufacture
failed completely. Little was
known about this aspect of the
tea-business, and scieptists
acquired most of their know-
ledge from reference-books.
By 1951 the necessary data
had been logged, and they knew
the worst. “On a plucking-
standard of one bud and three
leaves,” says Graham, “we
found it would cost us 7s. to
produce lib. of tea. Allowing
for the various incidentals in-
volved in marketing, this meant
a retail price of more than
12s. a pound. The bureau’s
first attempt, while agricul-
turally successful, was an eco-
nomic failure.
Within months the bureau
learned of a revised plucking-
standard which eliminated the
length of stem between the
second and third leaf, and
produced a tea of higher
quality, but made picking
slower.
“Trial - manufacture had
given us an opportunity to
check on quality,” says
Graham. “We sent samples of
each batch to tea-merchants.”
The tea-tasters all commented
favorably. South Johnstone
had produced “a neat leaf with
a bright, grippy, pungent
flavor.” But more research
was still needed.
Rising costs have not been
confined to this country.
Planters everywhere have
struggled against the overhead
spiral since 1945. British tea-
interests have been experiment-
ing with a hand-harvester. This
is a portable outfit—an electric-
motor and a 110-volt generator
driving a leaf-cutter operated
on the same principle as a
lawnmower. The picker ad-
vances, the cutter-bar shears
off. the flush, and the leaves
are swept into a gauze con-
tainer. The power-cable
attached to the cutter unwinds
from a reel as the operator’s
distance increases from the
power-plant.
With this unit, the bureau
has cut production-costs to
ss. Bd. a pound—but still not
low enough. “The hand-
harvester is not the answer to
rising picking - costs,” says
Graham, “but it has shown the
way.”
The next step is a self-
propelled machine operated by
one man. This raises a number
of problems on construction
and cultivation. The cutter-
bar on such a machine would
have to be precision-set for
height, independent of irregu-
larities in the surface of the
ground.
Here’s how scientists visu-
alise Australian plantations:
Unlike India and Ceylon,
where many gardens cling to
hillsides, sometimes 4000 ft.
above sea-level, our future
gardens will have a lowland
setting. Tea will be cultivated
in neat hedgerows, pruned to
uniform height and set apart
by tramlines over which the
auto-harvester will operate.
Plantations will require high
capital expenditure at the
start, but the long life of trees
will offset this. Yields at South
Johnstone have been main-
tained at 10001 b. of commercial
tea an acre each year.
Hedges laid-out in varying
widths and employing various
experimental plant-spacings are
already established. These
have made such rapid progfess
that it is likely that gardens
cultivated on the Queensland
principle will produce at least
two years earlier than the
average overseas garden.
Kendrick Howard.


SUBSCRIPTION FO
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to "The Bulletin,’’ to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£ l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Copy of The Heike and the Ten
Foot Square Hut, by A. L. Sadler.
—6885.
Music and dance-steps of the
minuet. —6886.
Seventy-eight-r.p.m. recording of
“Juanita,” new or secondhand.
6887.
Copy of The Bulletin Reciter .
■—6 BBB.
Copy of poem “The Weaver, by
Dale Collins.—6BB9.
Papers, articles, etc., on John
Robertson Duigan, who jn 1910
made the first powered take-off in
an Australian-built aircraft. —6890.
Information Supplied
(From “Marcus”): The only tie-
up between Mrs. Cecil Frances
Alexander (1818-1895) and Charles
M. Alexander (B. 7/10/’59) is that
their names both appear on hymn-
books. The lady, who was the
wife of the Archbishop of Armagh,
was a minor poetess and author
of about 400 hymns. Charles M.
Alexander was an American
evangelist who edited a hymn-
book.
Information Sought
How to make a weed-spray that
won’t affect stock ?
This one is particularly good for
weeds in odd corners. Water
lOgals., sulphate-of-iron 51b., com-
mercial sulphuric-acid 16oz. by
measure. Dissolve the sulphate in
the water, then add the sulphuric-
acid. When acid from cream-
testing is available it can replace
the commercial variety if 75 p.c.
more js used. This comes out at
28oz. instead of 16oz. This weed-
killer has little or no effect on
grasses, but settles bindweed, char-
lock, etc., in cereal-crops. On the
leaves of grasses or cereals the
liquid forms into globules and runs
off; on the leaves of most weeds
it spreads and remains.
* * * ■*
How to combat sooty-mould on
citrus ?
Two simple but effective sprays:
(1) Mix washing-soda in
4gals. water; spray on leaves and
branches. Be sure to use new
washing-soda: old stuff is likely to
cause great damage to the tree.
(2) Mix flour and water into a
thin paste, and add a tablespoon
of kerosene. Apply to the affected
trees; when dry, the paste will come
off, the mould peeling off with it.
It’s best to combat this disease
in its early stages —it will retard
the growth of the tree, causing the
flowers to fall, and the fruit, if
any, is always very small and hard.
The mould prevents the leaves from
getting air and light, and, com-
bined with the mould-insects suck-
ing the sap, considerable damage
can result. A good spray that
will keep the tree free from the
disease is half-a-pint of white-oil
mixed in 2gals. water. Add \oz.
nicotine-sulphate. Apply every two
or three weeks. These quantities
are sufficient for one average-sized
citrus-tree only.
* * • *
A brief definition of assault ?
Assault might be described as
the wrongful application or threat
of force by a person who has the
apparent ability to effect his pur-
pose. the forms in which a
criminal assault can be made are
legion, extending from the direct
infliction of grievous bodily harm
to a mere threat of it by gestures.
A gesture must be one which could
apparently be successful. Anyone
who brandishes a stick at his enemy
across a river could hardly be
said to assault him; yet, where a
taxi-driver was held-up by a man
with a toy pistol, the latter was
convicted. Acts done in self-
defence, or in the defence of
others to whom one owes a moral
or social duty, or in the defence
of one’s property, are not criminal
assaults, provided the acts are
commensurate with the severity of
the attack or threat. Provocation,
which consists of some wrongful
act or insult of such a nature as
to deprive the object of it of his
power of self-control, is also a
defence to a charge of assault.
But this applies only to acts done
in the heat of the moment, as
distinct from acts of premeditated
revenge.
• • * *
Brief biographical details of Dr.
Frank Ogston ?
Born at Aberdeen in 1846 and
was educated there. He was for
some time in the North of Scotland
Bank and in a mercantile office
before proceeding to the study of
medicine at Aberdeen (M.D., 1872),
Paris, Prague and Vienna. He
practised for a few years, and was
then appointed Assistant-Professor
of Medical Jurisprudence and
deputy health-officer for Aberdeen.
In 1886 he was appointed Pro-
fessor of Medical Jurisprudence at
Otago University, N.Z., and he
also engaged in private practice.
He died on September 7, 1917.
• * * *
When was the lithographic press
first used in Australia ?
Lithography dates from about
1821. On, or shortly after, his
arrival in Sydney in that year, Sir
Thomas Brisbane, Governor Mac-
quarie’s successor, set-up two
lithographic presses at the Parra-
matta Observatory' for the use of
Mr. Rumker, „ the Government
Astronomer. After Governor Bris-
bane left, one of these presses was
transferred, in 1828, to the care
of the Surveyor-General, Sir Thomas
Mitchell, who probably used it to
print his maps. The other press
was given by the Governor to a
Mr. “Dunlop, a member of the
Observatory staff at Parramatta,
who in turn sold it to the artist
Augustus Earle.
Brief Answers
P.D.0.; The name “Pinchgut”
for Sydney's Fort Denison was
applied during the early days of
the colony, when convicts were
sent there on a diet of bread and
water... .A.N.; Unable to help
with that one. The best step would
be to see a solicitor... .R.L.: The
history of card-making is long and
obscure, and there seems to be
no reason for the larger size other
than a printer's habit of filling the
white space a little... .J.McC.:
“Duke” Tritton’s Time Means
Tucker will be published by The
Bulletin before Christmas this
year. Apply for a copy at the end
of November... .R.F.: Practically
none. This market is oversupplied
by photographic companies, and
many such slides, particularly of
Australian scenes, can be hired
cheaply. Sharp, well-defined, glossy
black-and-white prints sometimes
find a freelance market if accom-
panied by well-written articles of
the type required by the paper
approached V.M.: The boxer
was Joe Louis. He held the title
for 12 years W.S.: Write to the
Government Tourist Bureau, 8
Martin Place, Sydney... .G.S.:
The ballad “Murray Moon” was
written by Reginald Stoneham and
was published by Chappell, Sydney.
No trace of ‘‘Road to Omeo."
Both appear to be out of print.
W.S.: (a) Vessels usually
referred to as “cargo-boats” very
rarely secure permits to carry pas-
sengers between Australian ports.
All cargo-vessels in this sense are
those which are mainly cargo with
very limited passenger-accommoda-
tion. Mcllwraith McEacharn
operate a regular service between
Sydney and Fremantle with the
Kanimbla, and the Adelaide Steam-
ship Company with the Manoora
between October and April. Over-
seas vessels are operated by the
P. & O. Line and the Orient Line,
and these vessels regularly obtain
permits to carry passengers between
Australian ports, (b) It is possible
to travel to the outback regions
of Westralia; Macßobertson Miller
operate an airline there, (c) As to
the best time of the year, this
would depend on what you’re look-
ing for. If, for example, you want
to go to the outback north-western
areas, the best time of the year
would be from April to September.
If you’re after wildflowers in bloom
in the south-western part of the
State, go there in Seplember-
October... .T.R.: Do the job in
spring, when honey and pollen
are coming in freely. Combs of
worker-brood should be cut-out and
fitted in frames and fastened with
string or by wooden cleats. Hive-
bodies should be of at least |in.
thickness of timber, and of stout
construction. Covers need to be
waterproof and insulated against
heat or cold. Good floors keep
out ants, spiders and other pests.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
B.I.: It is an experiment. The
critic, however, is by no means an
addict to popular items. His taste
covers a wide range... .F.L:G.:
Thanks for the Fisher reminiscences.
. ...J.H.S.: Agree with you about
“the Doc.” D.R.S.: Maybe;
but he is a tip-top humorist. And
the decorative artists of the
’nineties, or their like, no longer
exist in this country... .H.L.;
“Minister-at-Large” won’t work.
F.J.: It doesn’t say much more
than that the bauhinia bloomed.
. ...J.8.R.: You need a more
modern language for so modern a
theme... .J.R.S.; Cripes!....
D.C.: Say that again:
And if perchance my own applaud
Inspires me further on,
It is impatient time, good Lord,
„ That fowls me when it’s gone.
A.J.S.; Try it on May
T.J.: But where did you ever read
any modern verse like that?....
D.J.0.: You have some strikingly
original spellings... .P.C.: “Flat-
head Jack” promising. Have you
tried short-stories? ... .R.D.: They
are better when they are funnier,
but they’d need to be a lot better
still M. 8.: “Roosters” flies too
high... .M.K.: A mixture of fresh
and hackneyed imagery and
language. The fresh is good.


THE HOLLIDAYS
New Recordings
“I DO hope We meet him — I'm just dying to say, ‘ Dr . Schweitzer, I presume!'"
Swing in Stereo
There is plenty of musical
height and width and a little
depth in Coronet’s latest stereo
release, Swingin’ Down the
Lane, with Richard Maltby and
his orchestra.
Twelve favorite tunes here,
and in the title-tune Maltby
fools you. A couple of times
he winds-up to a conclusion,
or what one concludes is a con-
clusion, and then, in an off-
beat surge, comes sweeping
back again. Irving Berlin’s
“Cheek to Cheek” really gains
by a restrained use of that
pianistically glassy instrument
the vibraphone (or is it a
glockenspiel? .Or celesta? It
would be nice if the jacket
mentioned what it is): at any
rate, the thing tinkles out of
the right-hand speaker, and
brass and string colors come
from the other. There is even
neater separation in the follow-
ing number, “Spring Will Be
a Little Late This Year,” and
again the celesta (or whatever
it is) makes a sparkling appear-
ance. Chimes, too. And plenty
of brass.
But “Love is Here to Stay”
is a bit disappointing. It has
a good swing, and the muted
brass is appealing, but it lacks
the warmth of a sung version,
even Sinatra's. Technically,
though, the arrangement of
harmonies is clever nearly as
clever, in fact as the generous
changes in orchestral timbre
and y° u h ear . vl ß ra
• • • er > glassy instrument,
Take the fast-beat So In
Tove, ’ on the second side: a
r ‘ ch trumpet statement, with
the celesta-vibraphone-glock-
enspiel cheekily tossing-in a
phrase or two. Other tunes in-
elude * Married an Angel
. Toggy P a 7’ When I Fall
m B° ve one has some
mellow sounds and a bit of
cool trumpeting) and All the
Things You Are.
A New “Roberta”
In gen eral the 1930’s were a
Jean period for musical-
comedy. Few of the shows
produced in that decade made
enough impact to get them on
the rev ival list; many of them
W ent their way without leaving
e ven one song behind. One
c f the exceptions was
“Roberta,” a smoothly moving
and tuneful Jerome Kern
adaptation of Alice Duer
Miller’s “Gowns by Roberta.”
First produced on Broad _
way j n 1933 w j t j 1 a cast w hich
included Tamara? Fred M ac-
Murray Bob Hope and Fay
Templeton, it was a popular
success and has been repeated
at intervals since—Australian
audiences saw it with Madge
Elliott, Cyril Ritchard and Fifi
Banvard —and has twice been
filmed. For the first screen-
version, which starred Irene
Dunne and the Ginger Rogers-
Fred Astaire dancing-team,
Kern wrote some additional
songs, with lyrics by Oscar
Hammerstein 11, one of which
“Lovely to Look At,” supplied
the title for the second screen-
version (with Kathryn Gray-
son) a short time ago.
For a Coronet record (KLL
1607) of a dozen songs from
“Roberta,'” Goddard Lieber-
son has got together a bright
bunch of songsters from recent
musicomedy casts, including
Joan Roberts (the original
Laurey of “Oklahoma! ”),
Stephen Douglas (“Carousel”),
Kaye Ballard (“Touch and
Go”), Portia Nelson and Jack
Cassidy. Backed by a chorus
and orchestra conducted! by
Lehman Engel, they recapture
the spirit of the original show.
Their 12 numbers include “I
Won’t Dance,” “The Touch of
Your Hand,” “Yesterdays,”
“Lovely to Look At” and the
haunting piece that really made
the play, “Smoke Gets in Your
Eyes.”
❖ ❖ *
Waltzing with Weber
Waltzes will probably never
lose their fascination, and in
Coronet’s In Old Vienna
(KLP 804) Marek Weber and
his orchestra have skimmed a
bottleful of waltz cream.
The playing isn’t nearly as
good as the Philadelphia’s,
which group has lately been
recording waltzes in its im-
peccably groomed style; but
Weber’s orchestra is almost cer-
tainly less than a third the
size of the Philadelphia, and
although this tends to limit the
spread of sound and overall
roundness the result is inevi-
tably a truer picture of music-
hall conditions than you. get
from a larger orchestra. This
is important, for waltzes were
first performed by very small
groups.
So here, in good hi-fi, are
the waltzes: the rumbustious
“Emperor,” “Voices of Spring,”
“Wine, Women and Song,”
“Southern Roses,” “Artist’s
Life,” “Vienna Blood,” “Tales
from the Vienna Woods,” “The
Blue Danube”; and two
appealing medleys, one giving
the best of Lehar, the other
the pick of Waldteufel. Wald-
teufel’s “Dolores” is as sorrow-
fully reflective as Lehar’s
“Merry Widow”. is sadly gay.
❖ ❖ *>
On a Coronet 45 (KS-341)
Leslie Uggams sings “The
Eyes of God” and “One More
Sunrise.” She has a strange
and not altogether pleasant
ripple in her voice. “The Eyes
of God” is a sickly-sad number,
alternating from the major key
to the minor, emphasising the
contention that the ballad-
style hit is coming in more
and more —irrespective of who
sings. “One More Sunrise is
at least a bit more cheerful.


Women’s letters
MELBOURNE
One of the features of Wine Week
Festival, which was opened by Lands
Minister K. Turnbull, was the wine-test-
ing at the Royale Ballroom. 1 rails of
grape-leaves, wine-bottles strung together
with wire so that they formed festoons,
huge casks and large photographs telling
the story of wine-making were used in the
decorations. Every wine imaginable was
there to be tasted and every day-session
was crowded. Several fashion-parades
featuring wool in many wine-shadings
were held, and there were cooking-with-
wine demonstrations.
Climaxing the opening day of the Wine
Festival were the banquets at Chevron
Hotel, one in the Bamboo Room, for
men, the other in the Fifth Avenue
Room, for women, following a reception
in which everyone joined at 6.30 p.m. Mr.
David Wynn, president of the Australian
Wine and Brandy Producers (Victoria),
and Mr. L Ekert, president of the Viti-
cultural Society of Victoria, were joint
hosts at the men’s banquet. Guests-of-
honor at the women’s banquet were
Mrs. H. E. Bolte, wife of the Premier,
and Mrs. Keith Turnbull, wife of the
Minister for Lands (the Premier and Mr.
Turnbull were guests-of-honor at the
men’s banquet), and Mrs. Wynn and Mrs.
Ekert were joint hostesses. Mrs. Bolte’s
lovely gown of oystef-grey and pink
satin-brocade had a decollete bodice and
wide pleats which gave fullness to the
skirt. A lace frock, shading from deep-
orange to pale-apricot and made with a
peacock-hemline, was chosen by Mrs.
Wynn. A short, bouffant frock of
champagne organza was worn by Mrs.
Ekert. Mrs. Turnbull’s choice was a
short frock of white silk with appliques
of threaded silver lace. Among those at
the official table were Mrs. lan Seppelt
(N.S.W.), Mrs. T. W. Hardy (S.A.), Mrs.
R. C. Cooley (N.S.W.), Mrs. J. Penfold
Hyland (S.A.), and Mrs. B. Bear (N.S.W.).
Other guests were Mrs. J. R. Mason, Mrs.
Phil Keon, Mrs. G. R. Christian, Mrs.
C. H. Jones, Mrs. A. R. Fox and Mrs.
R. Prince (Corowa, N.S.W.).
* * *
Strange though it may seem to vaude-
ville addicts brought up on a diet of
pony-ballets, tenuously-clad lovelies,
spectacular dressing and sets, speciality
turns and comperes, the Tiv. in its latest
show, “Ladies, Lions and Laughter,” has
the first curtain rise on a three-ring circus
with trapeze- and swing-acts and seesaw-
balancing, and elephants, horses and lions
appear in later acts. In the audience on
opening night were Mr. and Mrs. Ronald
Nott, Mr. and Mrs. George Thory, Mr.
and Mrs. Richard Frank, Mr. and Mrs.
Norman Lynch (her full-length turquoise-
blue knitted coat had tiny diamente
knitted into the pattern), Mr. and Mrs.
George Griffith, and Sarah Luxton (her
short full-skirted frock was made from a
white gold-spotted sari and worn with a
royal-blue satin stole).
Anne Berry, who is head designer and
fashion-manageress for Kayser, returned
recently from a six-weeks’ flying-visit to
the U.S., where , during Marketing Week
in New York, she conferred with other
designers from all parts of the States and
other countries and attended many fash-
ion-shows. These, she says, placed the
accent on the new drip-dry cottons and
lawns which launder so well. She is con-
vinced that Australian textile manufac-
tures are close to the world’s best, and
also that the Australian woman is as
fashion-conscious as any in the world.
Anne, who loves music and the theatre,
fits-in business with running a home and
looking to the needs of a husband and
three children. Photo by Athol Shmith.
Housewife, and mother of three sons,
Oriel Gray, of West Heidelberg (in
private life Mrs. John Hepworth), has
just won first prize of £5OO in the Little
Theatre Guild’s play-competition with
her “A Burst of Summer,” a story of
an aboriginal girl. This slim, attractive
woman does her writing at night after
the last of the domestic chores are over.
Sharing second prize were “The Bust,”
by Philip Albright, an American who
came to Australia in 1949 to play with
June Clyde in “Dream Girl” (and who
died before he could learn of his success
in the competition), and “Two D,” by
Eunice Hangar, a lecturer in the Uni-
versity of Queensland (she has written
many plays, one, “Flood,” having been
broadcast by the A.8.C.). To each of
the awards j. C. Williamson added £lOO
for first-performance options, and the
Melbourne Little Theatre has added £lOO
to the first prize as royalty for immediate
tryout.
☆ ☆ ☆
As to Caulfield Cup fashions, hats
really saved the day, which was cold
enough for all but the crack-hardy kind
to dispense with spring silks and stick to
fine-textured wools and linen-like cottons.
And the hats were mostly flower-
creations, the most successful being those
in which one bloom was used. Mrs.
Henry Bolte, who sat in the Vice-
Regal box with Lady Brooks, chose a
smart grey wool suit, the jacket having
a wide matching satin collar ; her ruffled
sailor-hat w'as in matching satin. Mrs.
L. R. Buxton’s hat was a notable
example, for one large and lovely pink
rose adorned the brown silk-straw cloche
she wore with a suit in brown tweed.
Lady Brooks, who chose a smart navy
frock and jacket, topped it with a tiny
hat, the crown a mass of green leaves
surrounded with sprays of lily-of-.the-
valley. Lady Robinson, wife of the
V.A.T.C. chairman, chose a black fine-
wool coat-frock, the high waist defined
with a flat bow of black satin. Her large
white summerweight felt hat featured a
brim upswept at one side. Mrs. Ronald
Nott wore a small pillbox-hat of fine
Italian silk-straw finished with a heavy
mesh veil. It was worn with a Christian
Dior suit in charcoal-grey alpaca, the
hip-length jacket, cut high to the neck,
having neither collar nor lapels. Mrs.
Leo Guest was another to wear a small
pillbox-hat ; hers, of greige silk-straw
finished with a face-veil, was worn with
a black-flecked greige Italian-silk suit.
Mrs. Tony Luxton’s suit featured the
new short-cropped jacket ; of navy-and-
white-check tweed, it had for company a
large flat navy hat swathed at the edge
of the brim with white organza. Mrs.
R. W. Robinson's coat, which she had
brought from the U.S., was of orlon-fur
(simulating beaver) and was in light-grey
with a darker-grey wide collar ; her high
Cossack hat was in matching orlon-fur.
Of beige-and-white-checked tweed was
Mrs. Arthur Laver’s suit, worn with a
bow-trimmed fascinator. Lady Clarke’s
rose-colored tweed frock and cropped
jacket was worn with a matching cloche.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Guy Bakewell, president of the
Victorian Symphony Orchestra sub-
scribers-committee, was hostess at a late-
afternoon party at Majella, St. Kilda
Road, when guests-of-honor were con-
ductor Kurt Woess (who is leaving Aus-
tralia) and John Kennedy (who was
guest-artist with the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra at the Town Hall). Mrs.
Kennedy accompanied her husband.
Among the guests were Sir Arthur and
Lady Smithers, Mr. and Mrs. David
Hyams, Mr. and Mrs. Lindsay Yuncken,
Mr. and Mrs. James Miller (they leave
for Adelaide at the end of the month,
Mr. Miller having been appointed
A.B.C. manager there), Mrs. Barbara
Gilruth, Lelene Cairns-Lloyd, Bonnie
McCallum, Sybil Hewitt, Nance Young
and pianist June McLean.


SYDNEY
Floral decorations and national cos-
tumes of many delegates of the Common-
wealth Parliamentary Association made
the reception arranged by the Council of
Commonwealth Societies a colorful
function. It was held at the Royal Com-
monwealth Society’s rooms, and guests
were welcomed in a brief and witty
speech by Mrs. Farncomb, of the Vic-
toria League, and by Mr. Ivan Black.
One of the speeches in reply was given
by Mr. Leary Constantine, now Minister
of Works at Trinidad, but better known
to Australians as a great West Indies
Test cricketer. A delegate from Northern
Ireland, the Duke of Abercorn, who is
a neighbor of Lord and Lady Wakehurst
(a former Governor of N.S.W.), told of
enjoying a bottle of Australian claret
with Lord Wakehurst not long before
leaving.
Among the 200 guests at the reception
were Mr. Naylor (representing the
Royal Overseas League) ; Mr. and Mrs.
R. T. Russell (she is a vice-president of
the Victoria League); Lady Sinclair ; Mr.
and Mrs. A. Rigby ; Colonel and Mrs.
Colville ; and Mr. and Mrs. Arthur
Beckingsale.
☆ ☆ ☆
Cocktails preceded the fashion-parade
held to mark the opening of its new
Chartreuse Room in Sydney’s fashion-
house of Kara, for which interior-decor-
ator Mrs. Ruth Sloane used unusual and
effective hidden floor-lighting, and
devised a most tasteful blending of chart-
reuse and lavender in walls, ceilings,
fixtures and furnishings to go with a
restful, deep-pile grey carpeting. Also,
there could have been no more delightful
corollary to the showing of smart
five-and-after, evening- and bridal-wear
than the softly unobtrusive harp-play-
ing by Mildred Harris.
The creations were the work of three
gifted young Sydney designers. They
are Shirley Little, whose speciality is
formal evening- and ball-gowns ; Shirley
Ryan, who finds her best expression in
elaborate cocktail-wear and frocks in
the ballerina manner ; and Elizabeth
Gonda, who, coming to Australia from
Hungary 10 years ago, graduated to'the
designing-board from machinist in a
clothing-factory and is now one of our
leading designers of high-fashion bridal-
wear. All of them were “discovered”
by the head of the Kara house, Mrs.
Clough.
One of the most elegant of the gowns
was a full-length sheath of black lace
over white lace. Another stunner was a
sheath-frock of satin-finished floral
polished-cotton with which went a full,
matching trapeze-coat. A telling, effect
was gained in another black-and-white
by the clever use of embroidered
organdie over a full white organdie skirt
of ballerina length. Accessories to a lovely
white-nylon frock embroidered with gold
were a broad gold cummerbund and gold
gloves. Two eye-arresters were a full-
length, full-skirted frock of green-coin-
spotted white tulle which had green
flowers down the back, and a pink
delustred satin with deeper-rose drapes in
chiffon flowers.
Paula Jones was recently re-elected
vice-president of the Junior Australian-
American Association, which was estab-
lished here nearly a year ago and already
has a membership of about 350.
Recently Paula had a busy time showing
visiting American junior-executives
Margie West and Ben Rice around
Sydney—a job she thoroughly enjoyed.
Their visit was a goodwill one sponsored
by the junior association, membership of
which has enabled numerous Australian
girls to find a warm welcome overseas.
There is also a plan in operation for
teenagers to visit the U.S., 'stay in private
homes for a year and go to school, so
they can get first-hand knowledge of the
American way of life. Paula is in charge
of the correspondence department at the
Shell Oil Company. Photo by Monte
Luke.
Heather which had been gathered by
Eileen MacLeod on the Isle of Skye
when, a few months ago, she attended
Dunvegan Castle as Australian delegate
to the “parliament” of the clan, and a
rousing Caledonian air played by piper
Ron Clements set the right atmosphere
for the reception given at the Royal
Commonwealth Society’s rooms by the
Clan MacLeod Society in honor of Mrs.
Joan Wolrige Gordon, daughter of the
Chief of the clan, Dame Flora MacLeod.
A tall, graceful figure in a red corded-
faille frock, Mrs. Gordon in her speech
of thanks gave ample proof that she had
not only inherited her mother’s sincerity
but also her gift for effortless eloquence.
It was interesting to hear that succession
to the chieftainship of the clan will go
not to Mrs. Gordon’s eldest son (who
will gravitate to the Gordon clan) but to
the second son—and he beat his twin-
brother (who is one of the youngest
M.P.’s in the U.K.) to the future title by
just 40 minutes!
The distinguished visitor was received
by the president of the N.S.W. branch
of the society, Mr. Bruce MacLeod, and
Mrs. MacLeod, who with Les Felton and
Jim Kalakarindos sang songs to the
accompaniments of Gwen Aldis.
☆ ☆ ☆
The twain did meet (despite Mr.
Kipling), and in a spirit of jollity and
camaraderie, at the late-afternoon party
thrown by Tibor Rudas at the Profes-
sional Musicians’ Club to introduce the
Western and Eastern artists who go to
make-up his “Oriental Cavalcade” (which
made its bow to Sydney Tiv. audiences
on Monday this week). Japanese
dancers in gorgeous kimonos mingled
with German adagio-dancers, TV- and
radio-personalities. Chinese, Filipinos,
Malayans and Siamese artists, most of
them able to converse, though haltingly,
in English, nearly all of them short and
lithe and sinuous, wore won’t-come-off
grins with either Bond Street suits or
national dresses. The party bubbled and
sparkled from start to finish, and a
delightful breeze of informality blew
around, with not a speech made.
☆ ☆ *
Cowra residents had a special interest
in one of Saturday’s weddings ; the bride,
Jean White, being Sister-in-charge of the
local Baby Centre, and the ’groom, Pier-
son Daniel, is Oflicer-in-charge of the
Soil Conservation Research Station there.
It was a very pretty wedding, the bridal-
dress being made of white delustred
satin, in princess-line, with very full
skirt, and scalloped V-neck, long sleeves
and fitted bodice. The three-tiered veil
was embroidered, and held in place with
a coronet of orange-blossom. Mrs. Colin
Hamer, of Wollongong, was matron-of-
honor, and wore a cocktail-length dress
of lilac self-embroidered linen and a
curvette of the same material. Best man
was Dr. Bruce Daniel, the bridegroom’s
brother. A special link with St. David’s,
Haberfield, the church in which the
wedding took place, was formed when
Mrs. David Ramsay, the ’groom’s great-
grandmother, gave land and money for
it to be built back in 1868. The ’groom is
the youngest son of Mr. and Mrs. F. C.
Daniel, of Epping, and the bride’s parents
are Mr. and Mrs. E. R. White, of Bega.
Among the guests at the reception,
which was held at Jonroe, were Dr. and
Mrs. William McLaren, Miss Doris
Smith, Mr. George Wiltshire, Miss
Lillian Hart (all of Cowra), Mrs. D. R.
Lowe (Mudgee), Mr. and Mrs. George
White (Shoal Bay), Miss Gwen Handley,
Mr. and Mrs. Jim Tucker, Mr. and Mrs,
Colin Hamer (all of Wollongong). The
honeymoon is being spent in Tasmania.
☆ ☆ ☆
. “Variety Fair 1 ” will solve a few prob-
lems for gift-givers ; this annual garden-
fete of Broughton Hall Auxiliary
promises to be a record-breaker as far
as the variety and quality of stalls is
concerned, and patrons are assured by
auxiliary members that they can buy
anything from a dainty doll to an
elephant (white) at the fete. It's being
held in Broughton Hall grounds on
Friday and Saturday next (October 23
and 24), and all proceeds will be used
to provide comforts and amenities for
patients.


richness of birds and islands, and fish
and waves and rocks and rats and sea-
lions, to be found in this delightful
book.
New Zealanders themselves will
projbably be surprised to learn they
have so many islands off the two main
islands they inhabit and will envy the
author the many camping-trips he has
enjoyed on these remote places in the
company of two notable New Zealand
bird-men, Edgar Stead and Major
Geoffrey Buddie.
The book begins with a character-
sketch of Edgar Stead, and a most
surprising character he was. Every
year, says Wilson, Stead used to order
from England 50,000 shotgun cart-
ridges, and, “keeping his hand in with
blackbirds and thrushes between his
game-shots,” by the end of the year
had shot them all off. He was also a
trout-fisherman of renown, and in
1916 caught 212 of Canterbury’s
famous salmon. At the same time he
was celebrated as a grower of rhodo-
dendrons; could take an alarm-clock to
pieces and put it successfully together
again; had an “uncanny ability for
finding birds’ nests” —“He found 26
where I found one”; and, when he
found a tree with a hole in it half-
suitable for a tomtit’s nest, would
improve it as a bird-residence by tack-
ing a piece of tin on it, with the result
that “Within a few hours a pair of
tomtits had inspected it and commenced
to build.”
Wilson’s islands lie scattered all
along the coasts from odd, unex-
pected bits of rock south of Stewart
Island to the Three Kings in the far
north, and everywhere he goes he has
something interesting to tell. On
Solomon Island, which is away down
south and would be better known by
its sonorous Maori name of Rere-
whakaupoko, if anyone could pro-
nounce it, he and Edgar Stead found
the carcass of a rare bat in a “more-
pork’s” larder, and also met a sea-lion
in a cave which belched at them so
horribly that “we had hastily to retire
to the open air.” On Jacques Lees
Island, south again, he observed the
contrasting behavior of the kindly sea-
hawks, which ate only as many young
shags as they required for food, and
the wicked wekas, “which seemed to
kill as many of the young petrels as
they could catch and ate only the soft
part of the stomach.”
On Hen Island, about halfway be-
tween Auckland and Whangarei, he
heard over 200 tuis and bellbirds sing-
ing in the dawn and caught several
specimens of the native rat, or kiore,
which the Maoris used to eat and
which is thought to be extinct on the
mainland. On the Chetwodes, a small
group in Cook Strait, he and the Steads
caught rock-cod by the dozen and a
201 b. snapper for good measure —
“When we rowed our boat to our usual
spot just off the kelp-bed seven seconds
was the longest time we ever had to
wait for a bite.” In the Gouland
Downs, on the South Island mainland
for a change, he hunted for kiwis in
the limestone caverns, found that they
were more than holding their own
against the stoats and, quoting from an
expert who bred them in captivity, says
the male does the sitting and the
mother, when the eggs are about to
hatch,, goes through all the motions
proper to an anxious father, nervously
“pacing up and down the run, pausing
now and again to rap on the box and
await an answering knock from her
mate.”
On the Poor Knights, north again,
he learned the story of a Maori
massacre—a neighboring tribe paddled
over when the men were away raiding
someone else, and massacred all the
women and children —and he studied
how the wild pigs had completely
changed the character of the flora and
fauna: “In the first place they had
rooted-up the floor of the forest and
the vegetation was changed. In the
second place they had rooted out and
eaten most of the petrels and tuataras.”
On the Three Kings he found a pipit’s
nest in the rain and was considerably
bitten in bed by eight-inch centipedes;
on the Snares he has the story of six
escaped convicts from Norfolk Island
who bit rather worse—they ate two of
their number, and the other four were
eventually marooned on the Snares,
where they grew potatoes. And there
are cats and muttonbirds and kakas,
skuas and penguins and the flying-
technique of albatrosses. It is
not a particularly well-written book;
just plain and to the point; but all its
points, whether of bird-lore or island-
lore, are worth taking.
WATERLILY
Look, look, there is an angel in the
fishpond,
It wakes its yellow wings above the
water.
Or say the naked moon came down to
bathe here
And dipped her toe in weeds and so we
caught her ;
Or say the sun fell in and sprang up
yellow,
Or say that mud’s in flower today—no
matter:
All images and fancies coalesce and
cancel
In mystery at last; it is an angel,
And moves its yellow wings above the
water.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
Police Chief
The memoirs of Colonel Gerald
Richardson, C.M.G., 0.8. E., Crime
Zone (Long), suffer in the early
chapters from an unjournalistic but
official tendency to generalise on his
early life as an English policeman
and Scotland Yard big-shot. His first
good story comes after he has gone to
organise police-forces in Italy and
Trieste behind the liberation armies
of World War 11.
He had news of a blackmarket con-
signment coming to Naples by rail;
and, with a Major of Carabinieri, an
Italian Customs officer and a detec-
tive, drove by car to intercept the train
at a small station and found crates and
crates of blackmarket eggs wedged
among passengers, stacked in corridors
and lashed- to the roof. They had the
crates unloaded and names taken, got
in the car to drive back to head-
quarters, and the author fell asleep
at the .wheel and turned the car over:—
I was on top and was able to push
open the door and climb out. I
then dragged my companions clear.
They were unhurt but were covered
in the yellow yolks and the slime
of the eggs they must have stuffed
into their pockets.
As Director of Public Safety in
Trieste, head of a force of 4000 men,
he had his hands full of assassinations
and riots: —
At a military parade in Pola,
when one battalion was handing over
to another, a woman brushed past
the guard and, shouting “Viva
Italia,” shot the commanding
officer, Brigadier de Winton, at close
range.
So that his appointment as C.I.D.
Chief at Tangier, although it began
with an attempt by two ruffians to
knife him, was a comparatively peace-
ful experience.
A British tourist was killed by a
Moor, but only because the Moor had
run amok on kif (marihuana); more-
over, the Moor was immediately
brought down by a cool policeman,
who shot him in the legs. Then, again,
Tangier was the headquarters of
motor - boat smugglers, running
cigarettes and such contraband into
Europe, but for the most part the
smugglers led irreproachable lives with
their wives and families in Tangier,
although anything went, from piracy
to murder, on their trips.
One of Colonel Richardson’s main
worries was a swindler who got money
from people for religious purposes and
annoyingly refused to lose his temper.
The colonel could not get any of the
victims to prosecute, so he talked the
swindler into a confession. Then he
found himself in danger of being
charged by the French law authorities


in Tangier with making an arrest with-
out formal complaint having been
laid. The confession emboldened a
dupe to prosecute, however, and the
swindler was tried and got 18 months’
jail—from which he was amnestied
because of the Sultan’s wife.
Colonel Richardson also super-
vised a stage in the life of William
Lindsay Pearson, the Australian who
offered to procure the return of the
huge haul of jewels stolen from Mrs.
Oppenheimer in Johannesburg in
1955. All the jewellery, except £BOOO-
- was returned; Pearson and
another were acquitted at their trial,
and then Pearson turned up in Tangier.
He began associating with three Moors;
and, in what Richardson says was an
arms-running deal and what Pearson
claimed was a sugar-deal, he almost
got his hands on the Moors’ draft for
124-million francs by a confidence-trick
of changed envelopes. One of the
Moors held the exchanged envelope to
the light, saw there was no writing on
the form inside, tore it open and dis-
covered the fraud. Another Moor
drew a pistol and covered Pearson, and
Pearson went to jail.
You may read here also of the
Belgian photographer who started a
bank in Tangier and got away with
£600,000 that had been transferred to
it from the Bank of Egypt —the way
some people succeed and others fail
is really too terrible to think of.
Sicily Waking
Carlo Levi, the Italian-Jewish
doctor, painter and writer whose
“Christ Stopped at Eboli” will be
recalled by many as a haunting account
of the primitive region in southern
Italy to which he was banished by
Mussolini for his anti - Fascist
sympathies in the late ’thirties, has
produced, in Words Are Stones
(Gollancz), another striking example of
that kind of dramatic and humanistic
social reportage at which Italian
writers (and, more notably, film-
makers) have excelled in the post-war
years.
It consists of three lengthy accounts
of separate journeys around Sicily, two
of them written originally for maga-
zines, all of them aimed at recording
aspects of the peasants’ awakening
from their almost medieval past to a
consciousness of modern life and a
changeable future—“a rapid picture of
a world that is changing from one day
to another and becoming bravely
conscious of its own existence.”
Broadly speaking, Levi suggests this
awakening through four separate
episodes: the triumphal return, after
50 years, of a mayor of New York to
the tiny village of his birth—small
boys reverently touched the hem, so
to speak, of his glittering Pontiac, and
old folk telling apocryphal stories
about his “nativity”; then the early
stages of a strike at the sulphur-mines
near Palermo which ultimately broke
the enormous traditional power of the
mine-owner; a tour of the country
around Etna (“a wonderful and
terrible landscape, black and purple
and grey, of bare or lichen-covered
lava blown by some prehistoric wind
into strange, wrinkled waves”) where,
in the land of the ancient gods, the
peasants struggle in staggering poverty
for a workable land-reform; and
finally, a visit to a widow whose son
had been killed by the Mafia, acting
for the feudal landowners, because he
would not be bribed out of organising
his fellow-laborers into a union and
demanding enforcement of the labor-
laws.
Levi is no ordinary reporter. He
never dons that leather overcoat of
deadpan objectivity which has become
the fashion for most modem reporters
when handling material of this kind.
He seldom allows you to forget that all
this is being seen by a particular man
with a particular brand of sympathy
and humor. He is never defeated by
the misery and injustice he depicts,
but places them naturally among their
splendid surroundings and in a context
of human decency and dignity which
he sees almost everywhere. His style
is leisurely but full of movement and
color; and with his painter’s eye for
telling detail, he fills out his basic
pictures with countless smaller ones of
the island’s life and culture, giving an
impression of continuous discovery and
development. It is the kind of book
that is memorable as much for its
author’s rare personality as for its
moving, strange and instructive
material.
SOME SCULPTURE
Like the skeleton of a sonnet,
abba, abba,
Each iron bone with nothing on it
Builds up the tune your eye will play,
abba, abba.
The meaning of each stance is latent,
A timid ghost that turns away,
Whose relevance is not more patent
Than what is murmured night and day—
abba, abba
When connoisseurs break to a fever
On solemn Art’s imperious sway,
Just quietly walk up to this sculpture:
Impeccably you’ll hear it say —•
abba, abba.
victoria.
NOEL MACAINSH.
Reviewed Briefly
Love Affair: Robert Carson (Heine-
mann). Ambitious young actor
Christopher McClaren becomes famous
through the efforts of his wife, Deane,
who believes in his talent; pays lots
of money for his upkeep (including
expensive dental treatment) and
polishes him into a good-looking and
thoroughly mixed-up star. He rewards
her by slapping her down; she leaves
him, and he marries another star,
equally mixed-up, realises his error,
moves back again to live on a farm
with Deane, father a child and make
an effective “homespun” comeback to
the screen. The novel, which explains
much about Hollywood, is written
“from the inside”—Robert Carson is a
successful scriptwriter.
* * * •
They Steal for Love: Anthony
Weaver (Parrish). Weaver spent four
years as warden of a home for children
beyond control or convicted of an
indictable offence. In this book he
looks at the problem of delinquency
from the angle of the psychiatrist
rather than the warden (surprisingly,
because on page 46 he describes
himself as a layman). Often labored,
the writing has curious lapses in tenses,
tending to rob it of its immediacy.
The best parts are where Weaver
prints notes of conversations between
psychiatrists and children. Doubtless
a useful book for those engaged in
child-rehabilitation work or for any-
one interested in the inner workings
of a home for pre-delinquent children.
The bibliography is first-rate.
• • * *'
Mr. Skeffington (Heinemann):
“Elizabeth” (of the German Garden)
tells how, one foggy morning, Fanny
discovers that, growing old, she is
haunted by the memory of the hus-
band she divorced 25 years previously
on account of his typistes. Trying to
lay this ghost, she visits a fashionable
physician who insults her; then, in a
last effort to recapture romance, she
calls upon a succession of her former
adorers. Undergraduate, courtier,
nobleman, priest, lawyer, colonial
administrator—each, in his turn, shows
he has developed exactly as might have
been expected—for the worse, though,
as far as Fanny is concerned. So she
battles on, and, as she reaches her
sensible but surprising answer, comes
delightfully to life. This last book of
“Elizabeth’s” shows a deep under-
standing of character. It couldn’t be
Edwardian (as the blurb says) if you
work-out timings; but idiom is right —
“looking-glass,” for instance, not
“mirror”—and everyone behaves and
speaks naturally.


THE MUTUAL LIFE AND CITIZENS’ ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED ( incorporated inw.s.wj
The weather at a glance...
from the M.L.C.
Weather Beacon
II
i—l
TEMPERATURE FORECAST
When the lights are:
Rising Becoming warmer
Falling Becoming cooler
Steady No change
WEATHER FORECAST
WHITE:
Steady Fine
Two Sec. Flashes Clearing
Half Sec. Flashes .. Windy
RED:
Steady Rain
, Two Sec. Flashes Change developing
Half Sec. Flashes, Strong winds and rain
The forecasts come from the Weather Bureau
by remote control. The signals are for short-
range forecasts and are adjusted at 6 a.m.,
noon, 4.30 p.m., 10 p.m. and when a change
is imminent. Keep an M.L.C. Weather Beacon
Signal Guide handy. Write or telephone for
the pocket-sized card.
THE M.L.C.
AND THE M.L.C. FIRE AND GENERAL
INSURANCE COMPANY PTY. LIMITED
MLC.29.FI*
