

PROVED THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
as the
HOME LIGHTING
BATTERY that's
YEARS AHEAD
Century engineers working closely with leading battery
laboratories in U.S.A. perfected this marvellous homelighting
battery approved by thousands of users all over Australia as
the finest battery ever made. It’s NEW IN EVERY DETAIL
—WITH NEW TECHNIQUES—NEW CONSTRUCTION
METHODS —NEW SUPER PERFORMANCE.
100 K-AT THESE DYNAMIC FEATURES.
SILVIUM —the scientific additive
which I< 10KPS I’LAT 10S ACTIVE
WITH MAXIM CM EFFICIENCY;
PKIOVIOXTS GRID CORROSION.
ONLY CKNTFRY IIOMFLIGHT-
ING BATTERIES CONTAIN
SILVIUM.
T]; ANSPA n 10 N T POLYSTI'-
11 lON 10 CONTAINER . . . you can
see the acid level at a glance.
INBUILT GRAVITY BALL
INDICATORS . . . show state
of charge AT ALL TIMES.
No more messy hydrometer.
GLASS INSULATION gives
sustained power during the
BATTERY’S ENTIRE LIFE.
BACKED BY A BULLET-PROOF
THREE YEARS' GUARANTEE
Ccnlwr
with SILVIUM
FOLLOW THE LEAD OF THOUSANDS OF SATISFIED GRAZIERS
AND STATION OWNERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
DEMAND THE BEST ... BUY THE BEST ... BUY CENTURYi
SILVIUM Batteries are also available for ell cars, trucks, tractors, etc.
SHYfiIA illllllU
These three gravity ball
indicators white, red
and green— are clearly
visible through the trans-
parent polystyrene con-
tainer. Their floating
position shows instantly
the Battery s state of
charge.
AVAILABLE FROM CENTURY BATTERY DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
The Bulletin
WOOL ISSUE
Wednesday, May 27, 1959
Price 1 /-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


Special Interest to Writers
101 PJLOTS USED AND ABUSED
by JAMES N. YOUNG
SO Years Fiction Editor oj Collier’s
Here’s 101 different short story plots each outlined
in less than 200 words. This unique book (hard
cover, dust jacket) now available for the first time in
limited quantity at 13/6 per copy post free.
AKA VTA DISTRIBUTING CO.,
8.8, BOX 5151, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
A YEAR IN AMERICA
The Stanford Writing Scholarship is
being offered for the third time to
enable a young Australian writer (man
or woman), preferably under thirty, to
study at the Stanford Writing Center,
Stanford University, Palo Alto, Cali-
fornia. It is offered for one year
(beginning in September, 1960), may
be renewed for a further year, and is
worth 3000 dollars a year.
The applicant does not have to be
a university graduate: his promise as
a writer is the first consideration.
A circular from the Registrar of
Melbourne University (from whom
further details can be obtained) says
that the successful applicant could
take an M.A. course or, alternatively,
write a novel, play, voluriie of poems,
essays or short-stories under his
scholarship.
“Stanford University is situated
35 miles south of San Francisco in
rolling foothill country between the
ocean and the bay. With pleasing
surroundings and easy proximity to
a cosmopolitan city, it should create,
within the general environment of
ideas which any good university
provides, a special climate favorable
to good writing—the presence of a
good library, the absence of com-
mercial pressures, and the stimula-
tion of a group of people engaged
in like concerns.”
The closing date for applications is
September 15, 1959.
Aboriginal Songs
Gathering mythology at Milingimbi
once, I met an aboriginal poet named
Leodardi. Now, an aboriginal poet
does not merely compose words, he
composes also the music and the dance.
When I first saw Leodardi he was
dancing, singing and beating time with
the song-sticks. He had what we call
in ballet, magnificent “line” and
“presence.”
Because I admired his dancing and
singing and told him so, he invited
me to a full evening’s recital of his
dancing and poetry. Afterwards I
asked Leodardi how he went about
making up his songs and dances. I
told Leodardi that in my country I
was something like him but that I
only made up the words, and even
doing that was hard enough work.
“Well,” said Leodardi, “I don’t
make these songs and dances up. The
spirits give them to me. Sometimes
when I am out hunting and I come
to a certain place, I see the spirits
there. The spirits come out and start
dancing and singing. I keep quiet.
I catch that dance and song of the
spirits. Then I come back to the camp
and give this dance and song to my
people.”
Similar explanations as to the
sources of aboriginal songs and dances
have been given to me by individuals
in various tribes in the Northern
Territory. Recently at Woodenbong,
on the northern border of New South
Wales, I was taken by an old aborigine
and shown a mountain which is the
site of an ancestral being who still
gives out songs to the aborigines and
caste-aborigines living in that particu-
lar country.
Although the aborigines and caste-
aborigines in New South Wales have
been de-tribalised for several genera-
tions, the older people have retained
their mythology and songs to a sur-
prising degree. Their racial memories
and religion, contained in their myths
and songs, are poignant to them in
this bewildering age.
Originally, the myths were never
related without their accompanying
songs. These songs are still remem-
bered and sung in the local dialects.
Here is how an old aboriginaLwoman
at Woodenbong translated and
explained a traditional song—“ The
Song of the Vine”—which she had
just sung into the tape-recorder for
me:—
There was a vine which was the
spirit of a man. These forest-vines,
they were the spirit-people’s vines.
They were not made by men. And
someone cut this vine, and there
this man is struggling to be alive.
This is my own grandfather’s song.
This vine is this man’s spirit, it is
his life, and there he is, struggling
to be alive. “I am here,” the song
says. “I am this vine. My life is
going away. It is going up into the
sky. It is going up into the sky
from this place, this ground, this
dust. My ears are ringing. Gaungun,
the spirit-woman, is making my ears
no good. My ears are ringing. I’ll
never see this world no more.” And
one man came along and saw this
vine struggling to be alive. He
covered it with dust. When I think
of my old people, how they would
sit down and sing their songs to me,
I could sit down and cry.
I went to Woodenbong in the course
of a tour of northern N.S.W. on which
I was gathering mythology. I carried
the tape-recorder chiefly to record the
traditional songs but I soon discovered
that the aborigines have been com-
posing and singing among themselves
quite a different sort of song—a fusion
of traditional aboriginal songs with
calypso, negro, hill-billy and ballad
influences which the aborigines have
heard through the mediums of the
radio and motion-pictures. Possibly
they will yet make a contribution to
Australian music comparable to that
which Negro music has made in
America.
These songs are sung to either a
guitar accompaniment, a tobacco - tin
beaten on a table, or two boomerangs
beaten together. They are sung either
wholly in the aboriginal languages, or
in a mixture of aboriginal and English.
One man, a guitarist, sang four
ballads, which he had composed, en-
tirely in English.
At Yamba, Billa Laurie, with the
well-known aboriginal guitarist Bill
Robbo of the Clarence River, filled
an entire tape with their calypso-
singing and playing. Billa was irre-
pressible. He seized the microphone
and danced with it as he sang.
At Tabulam where I recorded both
traditional and contemporary songs,
the children sang hymns for me, sing-
ing them in parts for various voices
and with individual rhythms far re-
moved from the staid original forms.
Because the people at Tabulam
knew I was going on to Woodenbong
they sang, in the language, a song
about a respected old man from that
place. It was concerned with his
amorous pursuits as a young man
when he would sneak round from
camp to camp after women. When, in
(<Continued on page 83)
SONNET
Waves rattling pebbles rocked me asleep.
But when l woke the waters were all still :
Dew on the wharf, and you, as tranquil
As in a dream, a/rd only the swish and
drip
Returning from my oars’ returning sweep
Betrayed the silence and my schoolboy
skill
While the boat surged and slid and the
land fell
Into a line of shadows dark and deep.
Then, when the sun broke red upon the
lake
And burned its beams to roses in your
hair .
I felt my hands tremble and my heart
shake,
But you were all the morning, and you
were
One with the water’s dreaming, still to
wake,
Your kiss incurious as the windless air.
N.S.W.
RONALD McCUAIG


OR
1,000 BALES
receive the same
Personal Service from
TRAINED WOOL
STAFF
V
m m
V- :• •■
You can be sure that your
wool will be displayed to
advantage on our well
lighted spacious show
floors in all the major
centres in Australia.
COMPLETE SERVICE TO THE MAN ON THE LAND
Insurance,
180 Branches give Nationwide Service to the Man on the Land,
covering Wool, Merchandise, Shipping, Travel, Chartering,
Skin and Hides, Land and Livestock, Rural Banking.
ELDER, SMITH & GO., LIMITED
Adelaide, Perth, Albany, Melbourne, Geelong, Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane, London
with which are amalgamated
COMMONWEALTH WOOL & PRODUCE CO. LIMITED .... SYDNEY,
NENCO LIMITED NEWCASTLE
MORPHPADS LIMITED .... BRISBANE


The Bulletin
Wednesday, May 27, 1959
Vol. 80—No. 4137
The National Australian Newspap-er
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adam 9
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland': 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
WOOL AND OUR LIVING
'"THERE is a tendency after the
A phenomenal experience of the last
year to discount wool as a contributor
to the national economy and to hold
that its day is done; that Australia is
on the way to being a secondary-
industry country, and that its economy
can float without the buoyancy of
wool underneath it.
The impact of wool on Australian
life and economy since the 1820’s
always has been (and still is) of
account for more reasons than the
mere financial return. It has been
the very lifeblood of settlement in a
continent most of which is peculiarly
unsuited for general agriculture except
under artificial conditions, but which,
in its natural state, is God’s gift to the
Merino.
While sheep have been the basis of
settlement in the wide open spaces,
they also are the basis of closer settle-
ment in conjunction with pasture-
improvement and cropping in many
nearer coastal areas. And the change
from the old system of sheep-walks
on vast stations of the Spanish mesta
type, to which the Merino was native,
to the small farm, highly improved
and near to great meat-consuming
centres and shipping ports, has
added solidity to the industry and
marked the route to future stability,
through providing a two-way market
for wool of utility types and mutton.
There is now only one State which
can be called a pure-Merino State—
Queensland —and it is capable of pro-
ducing the world’s requirement of
Merino wool when all its western
sheeplands are developed, leaving the
other States with a predominantly
dual-purpose role.
TyESPITE the pessimists and the
• pressing development of artificials,
especially in cheap - labor countries
such as Japan, there is no sign that
wool will not remain a permanent
requirement in all countries on a scale
which mounts with the growth of
population and ability to buy.
The advances in economic standards
will place many peoples which today
are vegetarian on a meat diet before
long Japan is trending that way
already, and so will Russia when the
world settles down, with probably
'China as well. It is then that countries
like Australia, which have wide inland
plains and downs which are suited to
little else than sheep- and cattle-
raising, and coastal areas with agricul-
tural lands more suitable to stock than
to pure agriculture, will come into
their own.
With the new standards of wages
and costs, however, the day has gone
when sheep can be grown merely by
driving them on to an empty piece
of land and letting them lamb and
grow wool. The cost of land, water-
supply and provision against drought,
and the cost of living and the amenities
demanded by labor, have made the
wool-raising business, even in the
interior sheep-belts, a matter of heavy
capital - investment which creates the
need to work only with the best
sheep under conditions of maximum
economy and wool - production per
animal and minimum loss through
droughts.
rpHE old - time western grazier, a
modern Laban, would have laughed
half-a-century ago at the idea that it
would be possible to raise sheep on
Queensland-border land which had
been subjected to improvements at the
rate of £lO an acre apart from stock-
ing; he would also have laughed at
the idea that it would ever be possible
to weather a western drought without
more than minor loss, or that the
country could carry more than a sheep
to four or five acres, or cut seven or
eight pounds of wool.
Equally, the selector who took-up
land in the supposed wilderness round
Cootamundra (N.S.W.) a brave
fellow under the Robertson Land
Act of 1861, designed to establish a
peasant class, would have sent for the
Lunacy Commissioner if anybody had
informed him that his grandsons would
have ceased to be cow-cockies and on
his poor patch carry five sheep to the
acre, with two English breeds of ewes
to get a double lambing, and then be
compelled to put a poddy-calf on the
equivalent of every five acres to keep
the surplus pasture down in a good
season.
Nevertheless, the revolution has
taken place in both these kinds of
district, made possible by modern
methods of subdivision and land-usage,
artificial pastures and fertilisers and
water-conservation and the increasing
growth and carrying-capacity of the
Australian sheep.
Australia, indeed, owes a vast debt
to its comparatively small group of
sheep-improvers, from the Macarthurs
and Rileys of the Cape Merino and
Saxon days, to the A.A. Com-
pany experts, the Coxes, Peppins,
and their followers. Also to the
devoted servants of the various
Agricultural and Lands Depart-
ments who have had the most
meagre rewards for the magnificent
contributions to the development of
intensive production from unpromis-
ing lands; and, latterly, to the
C.5.1.R.0.
All the complex armies of improvers
over the past century-and-a-half have
turned the Australian ram from a sire
carrying up to seven or eight pounds
of wool into one rugged with five or
seven times that amount, and the
average sheep, good and bad, from an
animal cutting 2.41 b. average into one
which, over all the States, cuts
10.51 b.—about the same as was cut
by the best ram in the. world when
John Macarthur brought the first
Merinoes from Kew to Australia in
1805.
Save for Queensland, a pure-Merino
State, and N.S.W., a largely Merino
State, all States now show an average
yield of over 101 b., and in South Aus-
tralia it is over 131 b.
All this with the increasing yield
of clean wool from greasy and the
reduction of inferior wools, which are
still too large a proportion of the
whole, has made it the
wool industry to keep its place in the
forefront of Australian production in
a modern world of high.costs and short
hours.
pROGRESS must continue, for
despite competition from artificials,
the demand for wool and mutton in
the world is far from its peak.
But, as ever, the wool-and-sheep in-
dustry will continue to prosper only
through meeting economic conditions
at home and abroad, and particularly
through increasing the amounts of
wool and mutton that can be turned-
off per acre at an economic cost,
having regard to the world’s markets.
Taxation Departments as well as pro-
ducers should never forget this hard
fact.
Whatever may be said carelessly
about the Australian economy being
able to keep itself well afloat without
a buoyant wool-market, it is doubtful
if this can be applied in a long-
term sense. It will be a long time
before the economy does not sag in
unison with a weak wool-market or
a bad drought throughout the Com-
monwealth and when a poor clip of
wool or a bad slump in prices does
not mean disaster to large numbers
of the people of inland Australia, who
exist almost entirely through wool.


A PORTFOLIO "DOWN UNDER"
“My lords and gentlemen, tradition is all very well, but I think it time we forgot about the unfortunate episode
of the South Sea Bubble and devoted portion of our investment portfolio to Australia and New Zealand.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Faces of Janus
Though the Temple of Janus, the two-
faced god whose door remained closed
only in time of complete peace, has long
been in ruins, there is little doubt about
the refuge of the fugitive god.
He has migrated from Rome to the
Kremlin, where the doors of peace and
war swing on their hinges, moving accord-
ing to the breathing of its chief denizen.
In relation to the Geneva conference,
Moscow is pursuing its normal cold-war
procedure for causing confusion, one
voice saying one thing, and one follow-
ing immediately to say the opposite.
On May 16 Gromyko at Geneva, tight-
lipped and “inflexible”, made his pro-
posals for the settlement of the Berlin
and German disputes. The West should
recognise East Germany as a sovereign
country and make a peace-treaty with
it; West Berlin must be created a “free
city”, irrespective of the opinions of its
inhabitants.
He was insistent on concentration on
the peace-treaty —in fact, on producing
a condition of affairs in which another
permanent satellite should be added to
the Russian empire, another group of
free peoples be dragged behind the Iron
Curtain, and the Communist borders be
drawn along the Elbe by a Power which
is determined to advance further and
engulf the Ruhr and its vast resources as
a preliminary to the domination of
France and the United Kingdom.
The West Germans are held up as
preparing to make war on innocent neigh-
bors, and Gromyko called for a ban on
the production by West Germans of
nuclear weapons or the means of deliver-
ing them, but no ban, of course, on
Russia having 23 divisions of troops,
mostly mobile and armored, in an
adjacent country with atomic weapons
galore if the Red Army’s boasts go for
anything.
Actually, West Germany agreed under
the Paris Treaty of 1954 not to make
atomic weapons.
The Russians’ attitude at Geneva is
aggressive, tough and abusive. They won’t
agree to anything except their own pro-
posals. They won’t give way anywhere.
Anybody who opposes their views
threatens peace of the world. A truce on
Berlin is only possible on the basis of
surrender. The one concession would be
to admit Russian troops as a token force
to the Allied section of Western Berlin,
where, of course, they would behave with
normal arrogance.
But at the moment when Gromyko was
bullying his fellow Foreign Ministers in
Geneva, Khrushchev was preparing a
statement in which he declared that
though the Western plan had left him with
a bitter taste in his mouth, “we shall be
prepared to seek acceptable solutions at
the conference-table, but it is necessary
to consider the questions separately and
not tie them together in one large knot,
impossible to undo, as is being done by
the Western Powers.”
Gromyko now echoed this. The West
was quick to make it clear that the pack-
age plan was not necessarily a bloc pro-
posal in which no detail could be dis-
cussed by itself. It explained that seperate
discussion on the Berlin proposal was
possible. The Kremlin, however, had
raised so many questions on haggling
details about nuclear tests that there was
no chance of really understanding what
they wanted, much less coming to a settle-
ment.
Then, on top of all the surliness of
Gromyko, and the equal surliness of his
leaders in Moscow, Janus turned the
sunny side of his face to the world in a
speech which Khrushchev made to a
group of simple businessmen in Moscow.
He said that “the talks in Geneva would
succeed”, and that the U.S.S.R. was ready
to go a long way to get results ; that
—despite his many warnings to the con-
trary — he did not believe the American
people wanted to fight to destroy Com-
munism in Russia ; that he did not believe
Russia and the U.S. would ever fight each
other.
While his agent in Geneva was mutter-
ing all the normal cliches of Communism
and being true to form, his master in the
Kremlin was playing the part of a sort
of grown-up Kim, the “little friend of all
the world.”
If he believed one word he said on
main issues he must have ceased to be a
Communist, since many of the views he
expressed are diametrically opposed to
those of the Congress of the Soviet Union
Communist Party, which allegedly framed
his national policy.
John Foster Dulles
The death of John Foster Dulles, at 71,
closes one of the most notable political
careers, and marks the end of an era
in post-war international politics.
He was the most travelled, and prob-
ably the most assiduous, of Foreign
Ministers of all time, and his devotion
to his job, with a sick President behind
him, aggravated his own long and
unrelenting illness. It was a tribute both
to the man himself and to the advances
which have been made in medical science
in the past couple of decades that, though
afflicted with a type of cancer which is
invariably fatal, he had both the courage
and the health to carry-out his onerous,
ever-controversial duties almost to the
last, clear of mind and determined of will.
He was one of the last of the Old
Guard among U.S. diplomats, trained in
the atmosphere of pre-war isolationism,
but nevertheless one of the main archi-
tects of the structure of the post-war
world.
He was one of the formulators of the
vision of the United Nations, one who
also helped to mix its strange ingredients
and draw the outline of its dreams which
he saw fade into the mists before he
died.
In a later period he was at the other
extreme of attitudes, the inventor of
“brinkmanship” and of the plan of tough-
ness towards Communism which he and
the founders of the United Nations had
earlier believed could be won over by
proving to its leaders that the West, and
particularly the United States, had no
aggressive intentions towards the Soviet
Union.
His last years were rather clouded by
disillusion through the failure of his
policies, in the Far East and Middle East
in particular, but he at least had the
consolation of knowing that he had
worked tirelessly—almost fanatically—to
make them a success.
His death, following a brief retirement
(spent in hospital), was a sad blow to
President Eisenhower, who leant heavily
on him, and to the Republican party,
which derived a certain amount of
authority in foreign affairs from his great
prestige in his own country.
Having been a leader m the making
of history in every great negotiation and
event since 1945, he was an almost unique
world figure, and his memorial, which
is to take the shape of a special library
to enshrine his personal papers at his
old University of Princeton, should form
a remarkable contribution to world
history in which his name will live for
a long time.
The Reds' Captives
[From “C’olliiis Street”]
There is little prospect of the directive of
the Federal Labor Executive ordering an
immediate ending of unity-tickets
Communists in union-elections being
accepted in Victoria, the key State in the
dispute.
The chief reason is that Communists
are already largely in control of the
unions, and if unity-tickets were to cease,
the Communists wouldn’t stand'a chance
of getting elected to union office, except
in a few isolated instances such as the
Seamen’s Union.
Unity-tickets, a device by which
Communists get key posts in unions in
Victoria —that candidates for secretary or
organiser are always Red, and the A.L.P.
men are fobbed-off with presidencies and
similar comparatively inactive positions—
are far more widespread than the public
appreciates.
The only union-elections which receive
any space in the newspapers are those in
which an Industrial Group ticket opposes
the unity-ticket ; and because it has
neither the finance nor organisation to
extend further, the D.L.P. has Groups
only in the unions covering railwaymen,
tramwaymen, watersiders, clerks, carpen-
ters, postal workers, ironworkers and
engineers (A.E.U.). Unity-tickets, how-
ever, are framed for other unions in
case an Industrial Group, or single
Grouper, should appear.
The Industrial Groups were formed in
1946, when there wals no D.L.P. and a
united A.L.P. movement, to counter the
Red organisations within the unions ; the
voting figures showed clearly that workers
were voting Labor at political elections
and Communist in industrial elections.
The A.L.P. Industrial Groups began
to win election?, and it seemed only a
matter of time before all but a few Com-
munists would be ejected from office ;
then the sectarian issue was successfully
raised, and the split ensued.
[The unity-tickets which followed were


an adroit Communist manoeuvre. In the
key A.R.U., where Jacky Brown has a
strong personal following—he has an
unquestionable knowledge of the rail-
ways and the railwaymen —the Reds
realised they couldn’t win alone, and
offered the A.L.P. some share of the
offices. Labor railwaymen accepted the
bait, in which the pill of Brown as secre-
tary was coated with the sweetener of a
Labor president; even so the margin of
unity-ticket successes have been narrow,
and in the last election very slender
indeed.
Communist successes on unity-tickets
have a deep political significance as well
as industrial importance. Three-hundred
of the 400 delegates to the annual con-
ference of the A.L.P., which is the govern-
ing body of Labor in Victoria, are elected
from unions. This makes the 100 dele-
gates sent along by the A.L.P. branches
rather insignificant.
The A.R.U., for instance, will send
20 delegates, their political complexion
depending on the result of the current
ballot.
At the conference next month, many
delegates, whether confessed Communists
or not, will be pledged to support unity-
tickets and bound and directed to support
union policy, which is Communist
policy. The successful retention of unity-
tickets will mean it is a question of time
only before the Communists elect A.L.P.
officials. They are not far from that
objective now.
Drama in June
The June conference of the N.S.W.
branch of the A.L.P. may be even more
interesting to the Liberal and Country
parties than the recent meeting of the
biennial Federal conference in Canberra,
which was barren of all real policy-
debate and devoted itself to using the
unity-ticket issue as a rope in a tug-of-
war between Left and Right.
If the political “experts” of Canberra
are right, the N.S.W. meeting will see
the real issue emerge—a struggle for the
championship-belt between those time-
worn and now politically seedy heavy-
weights, H. V. Evatt and E. J. Ward, both
of them former proteges of the Jock
Garden faction in the politics of the
depression years or early World War II
years.
The challenger has been assembling his
training-camp in Canberra, but its main
trouble seems to be that while it pro-
fesses to represent the Left and will look
for the support of the A.L.P. delegates
from the great Communist-led unions and
those under Communist influence, many
of the bottle-holders regard Mr. Ward
only as a has-been who can be used
momentarily to defeat Dr. Evatt inside
the caucus before being thrown over-
board to make room for somebody more
pliable and permanent in the captain’s
cabin.
It is said that there will be an attempt
to make a clean sweep of the moderates.
But the party’s difficulty for years has
been, and promises to continue to be,
that a surprising lot of moderates find
that they are Leftists when the Left is in
the ascendant, and a surprising lot of
Leftists find themselves moderates when
the moderates seem likely to acquire the
perquisites.
Whatever happens, it is certain that the
conference will be one more step towards
the doom of Dr. Evatt and the political
Labor party, and that the only people
who will benefit by it will be the Com-
munist party on the one side and the
Liberals on the other.
So far, Mr. Cahill has managed to keep
out of the slaughterhouse on these
occasions, but he will not find it so easy
this time. He is credited with having been
the moderator responsible for the change
of front of the N.S.W. State executive on
the salaries question. This startling bit
of acrobatics saw a body which in April
sternly censured, the Federal caucus for
its attitude on pay-rises, deprecating its
own point of view three weeks later.
Moreover, Cahill faces the conference,
full of delegates from unions which
cheered Dr Evatt on in his anti-Catholic
campaign, as the man who successfully
put forward a policy to attract the
Catholic vote at the State election.
Behind the scenes, it would appear,
lots of people are preparing for a Night
of the Long Knives during the conference,
but who owns the grindstone still remains
to be seen.
A Yank Speaks Out
[i'rom Canberra]
Hopes of increasing the current profit-
able meat-market to the United States
received a hard knock last week when
the American agricultural attache at
Canberra, James Boulware, said the
market would not last.
Boulware told the cattle - breeders
at Goulburn (N.S.W.) that the
present market for beef in the U.S.
was only favorable because, in a period
of severe drought a few years ago, Ameri-
cans cut-back their breeding-herds, and
as a result there was now a shortage of
certain types of beef on the U.S. market.
However, herds were now increasing
at the rate of 3|-million head annually,
and, “sooner or later,” the market would
become much less attractive to overseas
exporters.
He said when, not if, that happens,
the market will disappear for Australia.
“The Australian industry must remem-
ber, when the time comes, that the
unprofitability of the market will not be
the result of any machinations of the
U.S. Government, but will merely be
brought about by the supply and demand
position.”
Boulware hotly denied allegations that
America was “dumping” surplus primary
products on world markets.
He said American disposals of wheat
and other grains were carefully con-
trolled and were so carried out as not
to depress ruling world prices.
Boulware claimed that the present
tariff on wool imported into the U.S.
(25 cents a pound) was not discriminatory
against Australia, but applied to all non-
American wool.
He said the tariff was not relatively
high, and, in fact, was actually lower than
20-odd years ago, when it was 34 cents
a pound.
Boulware said America and Australia
both produced large quantities of primary
goods and had exportable surpluses of
much the same commodities.
He said America was self-sufficient in
dairy products and had no need to import
them from Australia or anywhere else.
“I can see no more reasons for America
to import dairy products from Australia
than I can see for Australia importing
New Zealand butter, when she has an
exportable surplus of butter herself.”
Government authorities in Canberra
were somewhat taken aback at the
strength of tone of Boulware’s address.
As they see the hopes of an expanding
market for primary products in the U.S.
now fading rather than increasing,
strenuous efforts are being made to boost
sales elsewhere, with the result that a
top-level conference will be held in
London in June to plan expansion of
trade there over the next three years.
The conference will be attended by
top Trade Department officials and repre-
sentatives of the seven major marketing
boards for Australian primary products.
English-speaking Economic
Union
The first move of the European Coal
and Steel Community, represented by
France, Germany, Italy, Holland, Bel-
gium and Luxembourg, was to consider
a plan put forward by the High Authority
of the combination’s Parliament for
meeting the coal crisis caused by over-
production and over-export in Europe.
With the Belgian industry nearly at
the point of collapse through over-
production, with German industry
menaced by cheap foreign imports, with
Italy’s industries living mainly on cheap
U.S. coal, and everybody else with a
... particular problem which can’t be solved
without damaging the interests of some
other member of the Community, the
whole thing proved to be a tangle the
solution of which it was impossible for
all to accept.
Four votes, including that of either
France or Gemany, were needed to
secure acceptance of the plan. But
France, Germany and Italy voted against
it, and the three little countries involved
for it.
It shows the wisdom of the British
Government, which, in spite of pressure
from various quarters, decided that it
could go no further than sign an agree-
ment for joint consultation at high level
between the U.K. and the Community as
an entity on questions of mutual interest.
It becomes clearer from the disagree-
ments even in vital discussions like that
of the future of peace in Europe that
the only really workable combination
which would be endurable for the British
nations would be an intensification of
the arrangements between the English-
speaking countries of the British
Commonwealth.


"AND ITS
PRINTED WITH
WIMBLE'S INKS"
At Rosehill on S.T.C. Cup day,
after bracketing, at four-figure
odds, my fancies for the Stradbroke-
Brisbane Cup double, I felt I owed the
bookmaker an explanation. “They’re
just hunches,” I mumbled guiltily ; “I
like playing long-shots.” He eyed me with
evangelistic tolerance. “I wish you luck”
he said, handing me the brief ; “person-
ally, I've never gambled in my life.” —
“P.0.M.C.”
♦♦♦ +2* *2*
“Amcee”: Some Vic. papers featured
on every page pictures of the latest bras. ;
but a bachelor lass I know doesn’t believe
in such exhibitions. On washing-day a
line of pillow-slips is hung out; inside
each pillow-slip hangs a bit of under-
clothing. Neighboring males ask each
other how one lone woman can use so
many pillow-slips in a week.
♦2* i>
“Temora”: Last week, little Samuel,
delivered at the kindergarten door by a
Mum with her nose in a splint, made
straight for teacher: “Mum says you’ll
be sorry about her face, but I’m not to
say anything, and you’ll just think it was
the dog! ”
♦2*
A.J.D.S. (London): I was interested to
see (B. 18/2/’59) a reference to a public-
"Will someone bump-off that lion-tamer!"
house in Abbotsford called the York-
shire Stingo. One of the oldest public-
houses in St. Marylebone has the same
name. The first reference to it occurs in
the Rate Book for 1683. It stands in the
Marylebone Road, near its junction with
the Edgware Road. The public-house has
been rebuilt several times, but the licence
has always been carried on. During the
early 19th century there was a music-hall
known as the Apollo Saloon on the
premises. A balloon ascent was made
from the gardens on July 31, 1837. by a
Mr. Green. 1 am delighted to say that this
old hostelry shows no signs of closing-
down yet.
* *j*
“Roomy”: The young couple three
along from us in the lounge-seats viewed
the film holding hands, though they were
separated by one seat; the occupant of
that didn’t seem to mind, in fact he slept
throughout the show —a very small baby,
comfortably tucked into a Moses-basket.
1 suppose a sitter’d have rushed them
double.
♦j-
“Doynest”: At midnight my friend
W. said good-night to his son’s teenage
friends, and he and Mrs. W. set about
removing the debris of the birthday-
barbecue. At 1.30 a.m. the telephone
rang, and an anxious voice asked:
“Where’s my daughter?” Mr. W.
explained that the daughter and five
other young girls had left in the car
of a woman guest, and should have been
delivered an hour ago. At the caller’s
insistence, Mr. W. doffed pyjamas,
pulled on clothes, and began a car-tour
of the district. At intervals he called
back ; further rings had been received
from frantic parents: the woman guest
and her charges had been swallowed-up
by the night . . . Not until 2.30 a.m.
did the first caller report all well : the
woman’s car had run out of petrol in
a lonely spot, ahd they had sat there
two solid hours, scared to budge from
the car, until a taxi happened to stop
nearby.
♦> ❖ ♦>
“Jobber”: Mentions here of blokes
who had been “on” different places
reminds me that as late as the early part
of this century I asked a Victorian if
he had ever been in Sydney. He replied
that he had been “on Sydney the year
Little Bernie won the Sydney Cup.”
❖ ❖
“Zake”: The new diversion-route
from the lower Kirribilli side on to the
Sydney Harbor Bridge approaches
involves, over the last 40yds., a
particularly steep pinch ; and, as motorists
can never, in peak-hours, get a run at it,
you’ve eventually got to get down to first-
gear in the bumper-to-bumper crawl.
But even in low-gear the 30-year-old
bomb in front of me couldn't make the
grade ; so he turned round, dropped down
the hill, and came up in reverse —the only
gear apparently not worn out. He made
it, and his luck even held further, there
wasn’t a cop anywhere about.
NOODLES
“Part of a Federal Government grant for
wheat-research will be used to determine if
Australian wheat makes good noodles. A
noodle-making machine will be imported from
Japan.”
Will Australian wheat make noodles?
You’d think perhaps it might
When you see the kind of doodles
The cereal-writers write :
With a cereal
It’s immaterial
If it’s nodular or flaked —
And there’s oodles
Of noodles
Half-baked.
Should Australia make the noodle
In a Japanese machine ?
Will it help bring in the boodle
When we’re down to our last bean ?
A beanery
Needs machinery,
Of that there is no doubt,
But we’ve oodles
Of noodles
Without.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


About that carburettor kicked into a
creek (B. 6/5/”59): “8.J.L.” may
be interested to know that he can find
a Bosch magneto at the bottom of the
Victoria Dock, Melbourne it’s been
there since around 1920, after Billy
Hughes had decided that never again
would Australia trade with Germany.
An ex-R.A.A.F. pilot, returning to Mel-
bourne from Johore (Malaya), bought
in Singapore an American car fitted
with the famous Bosch magneto. At
Victoria Dock the German maggie pro-
vided some complications. It was not
a matter of paying duty ; the car simply
was not allowed ashore with that fitment
in it. So an official attended while the
magneto was removed from the engine
and hurled into the water. And, not as
with the Scotsman throwing his penny
into the Firth from the Forth Bridge,
great care was taken to see that no
string was attached. —“Ceg.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Quartercut”: • Sorry, “Tame” (B.
13/5/’59), but a “blue” has naught to
do with bloomers. It could be a row
or argument pursuant to a blunder, but
basically is means a contretemps with
authority. Early 1900’s “Copping a
blue” meant getting a police-summons.
Later in the Army “causing a blue”
meant tangling with Army regulations.
“Word-doc”: “Make a blue” is derived
from the French word bleu, and in this
sense it means something indecent, or
obscene.
♦l* *5
“Cadam”: It could happen only on an
Australian outback airline. The old DC3
at the end of the runway vibrated madly
as the engines were tested. With a final
roar, instead of becoming airborne, the
plane trundled back to the airport. Pilot
and co-pilot ran down the aisle and
jumped out, leaving us passengers with
the feeling that a major disaster had been
averted by their keen watchfulness during
the testing of the engines. A moment
later, murmuring apologies
for the delay, they jumped
back on again after stowing
aboard the fishing-gear they
had nearly left behind ; and
off we went.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Dorian” : It was perhaps
unfortunate that the word
“crochet” should have crept
into David Rowbotham's
excellent “Red Page” article
on off-rhymes (B. 20/5/’59).
1 don’t like to be crotchety,
but the little black note, as
far as is known, has no
direct affiliation with needle-
work. You’d certainly be
uphill finding an off-rhyme
for “crochet”, but “crotchet”
goes nicely with “hatchet.”
“G. 8.”: Although
“Duke” Tritton is wrong in
saying (B. 4/2 / ’59) that
British troops in the 2nd
Boer War wore red coats
and white cross-belts, the
Rev. W. J. Owens (B. 29/4/’59) is also
wrong in claiming the white cross-belts
went out over 100 years ago. My father
and an uncle both served in the Royal
Warwickshire Regiment; I remember
helping to pipe-clay some of those white
cross-belts, both before and after 1900.
The dress for drill-order was blue tunics
and blue I never saw troops
dressed. in khaki till soldiers returned
from the 2nd Boer War. In August, 1909,
I attended church-parade at the Thorn-
cliffe Military Camp, Kent (Eng.). Of
' the four .regular infantry regiments in
garrison, three paraded in the traditional
scarlet tunics, silver spiked helmets, and
white waist-belts. Only one of them,
the Duke of Cornwall’s Light Infantry,
appeared in khaki.
“Banana”: Both our children can
explain the principles of rocket-propul-
“Just one this time , Henri!”
sion. The eldest, 13, is kept well abreast
of world events at our excellent four-
teacher school; she reads the news-
papers intelligently and is above average
for her age-group in her knowledge of
local politics. Yet yesterday she asked
me: “Is it true that people who live in
towns can buy fresh bread and even
buns any day of the week except
Sunday?” And our son —who can
identify any make of tractor in the
district by sound —thought, on seeing the
first sanitary-disposal cart, horse-drawn,
or otherwise, of his 10 years, that it
was a Cobb and Co. coach.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Doric”: How mean can a man get?
We were three strangers seated at a
table at a rather ighklars restaurant
and got talking together. She was a
very charming girl, he a well-educated,
much-travelled man, who appeared rather
affluent. Producing a cigarette, she asked
if we had a match. Non-smokers, we
had none, but he offered to obtain them
and, going to the cash-desk, came back
with a box. I thought he was joking
when he said “That will be twopence,”
but she handed him two pennies, which
he pocketed! Me, I couldn’t have taken
the twopence if she’d been the Beast of
Belsen, let alone ask for it.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Bo”: I had thought the ultimate in
screen horrors was not an opus involving
a meeting of the Frankenstein Monster
and the Mad Scientist, but the fourth-
grade western which uses the same old
plot about the smarmy big-shot who
master-minds his gang’s cattle-rustling
activities ; it is the basis of about half
the TV-programmes. But that opinion
has been revised since the inception of the
greatest of all agonies: the advt.-song,
peculiar to TV, which is howled by
several females. They’re making-up


their own tunes, but I fear that
when native invention lags, as it did
in Tin Pan Alley, they’ll draw on the
vast reservoir of the great com-
posers, and we'll hear bits of Beethoven’s
“Missa Solemnis” pushed into the service
of Blibber’s Bonny Biscuits, or the guts
torn out of the opening subject of
Schubert’s “Unfinished” to provide the
theme-song for Guggleheimer’s Toenail
Tint. In the meantime let some public-
spirited M.P. bring-down a private bill
to make manufacturers of TV-sets
supply a remote-control unit so that
viewers will be saved wearing out the
carpet turning the volume-knob to zero.
%
❖ ❖
“Andrew Starrier”: Gran still main-
tains admiration for enterprise, despite
being stung by a door-to-door peddler in
a Melbourne suburb, doing his stuff for
Mother’s Day with fragrant-smelling
lavender-nuts for Mum’s linen and
undies ; 6d. each, smooth and round, Aus-
tralian grown, absolutely the latest, and
not yet in nursery catalogues. An
amusing, if barefaced, racket with a
pound or two of not-so-well-known
Queensland Macadainia nuts, baptised
with lavender-water.
“Seemum”: Watery eyes, pallid faces,
red noses and hunched shoulders greeted
the senior executive when he arrived in
the office that morning. “What’s the
matter with you all?” he demanded
irritably. “If you’ve got ’flu or something,
why come to work and spread it around?”
Silence, except for coughs and sneezes,
then a hoarse grunt from the back of the
ro#m: “Pay-day! ”
♦I 4 »>
“Enbee”: Class-consciousness in items
other than pokers (B. 13/5/’59) is
apparent when one examines in the
barrack-stores inventory in the British
Army the section labelled “pots, cham-
ber.” The lowly private contented him-
self with a pots, chamber, private, while
his non-commissioned officers were the
proud owners of “pots, chamber,
sergeant.” High-ranking staff-officers
revelled in the possession of- “pots,
chamber, general, with Royal Cipher,”
and even the fellow whose mind finally
“Funny, We never see girls like this when our firm advertises for staff."
cracked under the strain of coping with
ail these stores was accommodated with
a “pots, chamber, round rubber,
lunatic.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Uramao”: At a suburban hotel of
Sumner, Christchurch, (N.Z.), a
branch of the Ancient Order of Buffaloes
was heard herding after hours ; some, in
a hurried attempt to avoid the raiding
police-party, sought refuge in the pub-
lican’s fowlhouse. The police instituted
a search ; and the excuse of one corralled
Buffalo that he entered the fowlhouse to
get a chicken to make chicken-soup
failed to soften the heart of the magis-
trate : thus another chicken came home to
roost.
v ♦> ♦>
“Piketrailer” (Bahrein): Waxed
moustaches at the Mecca of every
British Army bandsman, Kneller Hall,
the renowned “School of Wind,” must
have drooped after the international
Soccer-match between England and
Italy at Wembley on May 6. The foot-
ball was all right, though England, on
the eve of meeting the world champions,
Brazil, could only draw 2-2 ; but the
band of the 2nd Bn., “The Green
Jackets,” played the wrong Italian
anthem; instead of the Republican
“Inno di Mameli,” which came in a
mere 13 years ago, it gave the full treat-
ment to the “Marcia Realo,” the old
Royal march. The all-seeing and -hear-
ing TV ensured immediate ructions back
in Rome. Explained the bandmaster
blandly: “It came from a War Office
publication, National Anthems of the
Nations, issued in 1910.”
■*s»
“Pat”: The waitress handed me the
menu and waited with poised pencil. “I’ll
have the pie,” I said, indicating the
line: “Pie and gravy—ls. lOd.” She
studied it concentratedly, shook her head.
“Sorry, you can’t have that —that’s
the breakfast pie, and you can’t order it
after ten-o’clock.” “No pies on now? Is
that it?” “Yes. You can have a pie;
this one here.” She pointed to the other
side of the menu, where it decreed, “Pie
and vegetables—3s. 6d.” “Yes, but it isn’t
lunch-time yet and anyway I don’t want
any vegetables. I just want a plain pie
and gravy without anything else.” “Sorry,
you gotta have pie with vegetables if you
want a pie after ten,” said she. And
marched off to order it while I mused on
the paradoxes that crop-up in the demo-
cratic State.
♦t* «j*
“Metax”: A notice in the middle of a
parking-area next to our works prohibits
the leaning of motor-cycles against the
fence. The notice is obeyed, but the post
on which it is erected is already slightly
out of plumb from use as a bike-prop.
SIMPLE SOLUTION
“Practitioners of yoga find no need, as so
many do, to seek the guidance of daily news-
papeis in the solving of their personal problems;
the system they follow takes care of that.” —■
Radio-lecturer.
If a personal problem you face,
If you’ve got yourself into a fix,
Even though it’s a tough-as-nut case,
And your know-how to solve it is nix,
Your fate, you feel, you should place
In the hands of a Dorothy Dix —
Some Fourth Estate dame
Whose experience might
Help you lay-out your bogy.
Just skip it! The game
Will be sewn-up —and tight —
If you’ll follow the yogi.
By essaying postures which seem
Unnatural, first time you try,
You’ll find through the gloom there’s a
gleam;
Don’t feel you’re just hung-out to dry,
Or you’ll never get right on the beam.
Give senses-withdrawal a fly :
On the back of your neck
You would sit for a day
While refraining from blinking—
Though you finish a wreck,
Cares will all fly away,
And accomplished sans thinking.
It’s a comfort to know that a fear
You may dissipate pronto if you
Can stand for an hour on one ear,
Adopting an inverted view.
The wife's voice you’ll no longer hear,
The blackest despair you’ll subdue.
Should your cares involve pelf,
Don’t depend on the guff
You’ll be handed by editors —
If you’ll up-end yourself,
And stay there long enough,
You will beat all your creditors J
N.s.w.
S. W. K.


HIGH-FLY AUL-STEEL
SHEDS AAD GARAGES
»
20ft. x 10ft. x 7ft. Steel
Framework: From £35-12-6.
K!CH
?L¥
ROTARY
CLOTHES
HOIST
GUARANTEED 25 YEARS
In response to repeated requests from Primary
Producers, we now offer a complete range of
Tank Stands suitable for various tank capacities.
Standard sizes are available for prompt delivery.
Should you require a special size or have a
particular problem in your installation, we are in a
position to quote promptly for your requirements.
The name “High-Fly” stands for quality in all
tubular steel goods. Our stock Ramps and Rotary
Clothes Lines have long enjoyed a first-class
reputation throughout Australia.
HIGH-FLY TUBULAR STEEL TANK STANDS
HIGH-FLY STEEL GARAGES OR SHEDS
Made to any size light
but sturdy 2 men can
erect framework in half
hour.
J2JGir?
LW
Also Manufacturers of ® HIGH-FLY Automatic Poultry Feeders ® Automatic
Plucking Machines • HIGH-FLY Stock Ramps • HIGH-SPAN Tubular Steel Buildings
of all Types, Industrial and Rural ® HIGH-FLY Car Port.
MACSHIEL RURAL ACCOMMODATION
• Prefabricated steel.
© Insulated against heat and cold in roof and
walls.
• Proof against fire, white ants, dry rot and
vermin.
0 Approved by Dept of Labor and Industry.
® 3 Year Guarantee against fire damage.
FOR PARTICULARS AND QUOTES FOR BUILDINGS
OR RURAL ACCOMMODATION MAIL THIS
To
CLEVELAND ENGINEERING & WELDING CO. PTY. LTD.,
45 Kent Rd., Mascot
Or
CLEVELAND ENGINEERING (TAMWORTH) PTY. LTD.,
145 Bridge Street, Tamworth.
Or
CLEVELAND ENGINEERING (CHARLEVILLE) PTY. LTD.,
Box 180, Charleville, Queensland.
Please send me particulars of Buildings.
NAME
ADDRESS ......
Type and Size Req’d ...............-. ................


POLITICAL POINTS
The by-election for-the Mulgrave seat
in the Queensland Assembly, vacant
since the death of Country-party member
R. H. Watson, will be held on June 6.
Mulgrave was one of the seats wrested
from Labor by the Country party in 1957;
in a three-cornered contest Watson polled
3407 votes against 2331 scored by sitting
Q.L.P. member C. B. English and 1792
by R. Trembath (A.L.P.).
Both English and Trembath are in the
field again this time and the Country-
party candidate is C. F. Wordsworth,
who was M.L.A. for Cook 1950-53. The
poll should be an interesting index of
the popularity of the Nicklin Govern-
ment after nearly two years in office.
With first-past-the-post still the rule in
Queensland Wordsworth should hold the
seat.
• •
Labor moves to persuade the Liberals
to provide a Speaker for the Tasmanian
Assembly have failed ; so have Liberal
attempts to enlist the support of Indepen-
dents Wedd and Turnbull to outvote the
Labor Government. So, too, have moves
to get Wedd to accept the Speakership.
Parliament will therefore meet on June 2
with Labor prepared to nominate a
Speaker and Chairman of Committees
and take its chance as a minority Govern-
ment, dependent on the whims of the
Independents and, in the last resource,
on the Speaker’s casting-vote. In other
States this might be thought an impossible
position, but Tasmania is more-or-less
used to it. Must be the weather.
• •
Taking advantage of the one-day
session of the N. S. Wales Assembly,
Opposition-leader Morton asked the
Premier to tell the House the purpose of
Transport Minister Enticknap’s overseas
trip ; what the Government planned to
do about the Eastern Suburbs Railway ;
what it thought of J. R. Caldwell’s rapid-
transit scheme for Eastern Suburbs
traffic, and what it proposed to do about
weekend and children’s fares on public
transport. Joe didn’t enlighten him.
• •
The cancellation of Thomas Boydell’s
lecture-tour of N.S.W. schools shows
bad staff-work somewhere. The South
African ex-M-P. had already visited
schools in Westralia and South Aus-
tralia and the controversy raised in those
States by his exposition of his views
on apartheid should have given the
N.S.W. authorities plenty of warning
what to expect. They should either have
applied the Ban before he reached
Sydney or else allowed him to complete
the programme once he began it. To
suggest that anyone could lecture on
South Africa at the present time with-
out mentioning racial matters is absurd,
and Boydell was quite right in refusing
to agree to such a restriction.
• •
Qanlas has begun a new air-service
between Sydney and Flong Kong, via
Port Moresby. The service is at present
operating Super - Constellations, but
towards the end of the year Lockheed-
Electra turbo-prop jets will take-over.
• •
The new Victorian Hire Purchase
Act which was to have come into force
on June 1 will not now be proclaimed
until July 1. Announcing this, Acting
Premier Rylah said that h.-p. companies,
retail traders and others had asked for
extra time to print new h.-p. agreements
and make other preparations to comply
with new requirements. Rylah said the
Government had granted their request
reluctantly, and there would be no
further extensions.
• •
The Big Hole in Chalmers Street,
Sydney, scooped-out at great cost as a
starting-point for the Eastern Suburbs
Railway, may become an underground
car-park. A syndicate has dropped hints
that it is interested, but Railways Com-
missioner McCusker says consideration
of the project will have to wait until
the Government reaches a decision on
the Eastern Suburbs mirage. When
that will be no one knows. Perhaps it
is one of the things Transport Minister
Enticknap will seek inspiration on while
abroad.
• •
“Wusslean”: The exploit of the young
chap who allegedly “went on a bender”
and woke up to find himself inside a
sentry-box on the wall of Melbourne’s
Pentridge Jail, having scaled 15ft. fences
as well as a high wall, provoked little
comment. Melbourne citizens, if not
altogether happy at the idea that with
a little ingenuity and exertion an in-
mate of the prison can get out or an
outsider get in, have grown accustomed
to this curious state of affairs. Fortu-
nately, most people, inside or outside,
are content to stay where they are.
• •
New percentages of Australian-grown
tobacco-leaf required to qualify for con-
cessional rates of duty were announced
last week —24.5 per cent, in tobacco and
28.5 per cent, in cigarettes. The new rates
will apply from July 1, 1960. For the 12
months from July 1, 1959, the rates will be
23.5 p.c. for tobacco and 22 p.c. lor
cigarettes.
• •
Senator Spooner, Minister for National
Development, has predicted that 80,000
houses and flats will be completed during
the year ending June 30. This would
be the highest number for four years.
Completions during the March quarter
were 19,082, and commencements totalled
20,346. Both figures were records for a
March quarter.
* o
[From Canberra]
Civil Aviation Minister Shane Paltridge is
furious over the action of seven of his Senate
colleagues in jacking-up on the proposed legis-
lation to legalise the sale of liquor at major
Australian airports. . The rebels claim they
acted in their proper role as protectors of State
rights.
The Government wanted to push The legis-
lation through Parliament, believing that the
Senators wouldn’t vote against it, but Paltridge
refused, claiming the measure was too important
to risk defeat.
The Commonwealth intended asking the
States to amend their liquor-laws, if necessary,
to allow the sale of liquor at airports in
specified periods for the convenience of air-
travellers and others using airports. The idea
was to bring Australia into line with major
airports overseas where liquor-bars, shopping-
facilities and other amenities are part and parcel
of air-travel.
Paltridge will do some intensive lobbying
between now and August to bring the rebels
into line, as he wants the legislation to go
through in its present form. He Fas the backing
of most of the Government, as well as Labor.
"I'd better be getting below, Professor. This cold War gives me the shivers!”


In case the citizens of N. S. Wales
don’t know it, they are living in a Golden
Age. The authority for this statement
is N. S. Wales Minister for Education
Heffron, and his proof the fact that the
people of N. S. Wales have repeatedly
returned a Labor Government to office.
And apparently, if they continue to do
so, the age will get goldener and
goldener.
Willis, Liberal M.L.A. for Earlwood,
had complained that the Cahill Govern-
ment was ignoring Parliament and often
made its most important announcements
at press-conferences and “by leakages
and pipelines.” Heffron replied that the
Government had a big programme of
important legislation ahead of it and
that at the end of its term the people
w'ould give it “a still longer lease of life.”
At the present rate of progress Cahill’s
Government won’t get far with its big
programme in three years. It met for
the formal opening on April 21 ; sat for
three hours on May 19 to elect a new
M.L.C. ; will have another day of work
on June 4 and then rest again until
August.
• •
By a unanimous verdict the High
Court has ordered a retrial of John
Whelan Brown, a station-hand who
received a death-sentence for the murder
of Neville Lord at Pine Valley Station
(S.A.) last November. The ground of
the appeal was that the trial judge had
inadequately directed the jury on aspects
of the defence plea of insanity advanced
at the trial.
© •
“Ceg”: “Rich Vein Found by
Menzies” shouted a headline in my morn-
ing paper. At least, that’s what I thought
it was saying, and I assumed it was a
kind of postscript on Parliamentary
salaries. Then 1 read how two veteran
prospectors working on the Golden
Wonder lease on a W.A. goldfield had
turned-in ore averaging 220 z. to the ton
and valued at £3700. The heading really
read “Rich Vein Found at Menzies.”
Still, it set me wondering what would
be the combined tonnage of the M.P.s
who voted for the salary-rise. If we
could get that figure it would be a simple
matter to calculate the number of ounces
to the ton their Golden Wonder, the
Richardson report, assayed.
e ©
Plans which may give New Zealand an
oil-refinery and a steelworks are under
way. Prime Minister Nash has been
discussing with the Shell Co. the possi-
bility of building a refinery at a cost of
£2O million, of which Shell would put-up
60 per cent, and New Zealand investors
40 per cent. Shell has told him the
refinery could be built and in production
within three years of a site being
approved.
The steel project was announced by
Minister for Commerce and Industries
P. Holloway, who told a meeting of
industrialists that the Government
“Ever since I got this ultra-contemporary furniture you've been
uneasy and discontented."
planned to take-up 51 per cent, of the
shares of a company to be formed “to
investigate the economics of a proposed
iron-and-steel industry.” Apparently
“certain Australian interests” are prepared
to put £250,000 into an investigation of
iron and coal deposits and follow it up
with real money if prospects seem
promising.
• •
W. C. Peters, secretary of the Felt
Hatters’ Union, won the N. S. Wales
Legislative Council election to fill the
vacancy caused by the resignation of G.
Neilly, now M.L.A. for Cessnock. As
Labor has a clear majority in the two
Houses, Peters’s win over Liberal
candidate Helmore was a foregone con-
clusion, but apparently somebody bucked
the ticket; 81 Labor men voted, but
Peters collected only 79 votes.
• •
Ergonomics and cybernetics are the
two latest words in social science in the
United Kingdom. Ergonomics concerns
itself with find the easiest way to do jobs
or work efficiently—a sort of latter-
day motion-study —with considerable
emphasis on safety. One slogan defines
it as “fitting the job to the worker.”
Cybernetics? That’s easy —it’s simply
“ergonomics on the psychological side.”
U.S. Agricultural Attache in Canberra,
James Boulware, warned delegates at a
Beef Cattle convention in Goulburn not
to bank too much on the American
market. The present high prices, he said,
stemmed from herd-reductions in the
United States some years ago at a time
of poor seasons and low prices. Sooner
or later the price was bound to drop again,
and he asked his audience to realise, when
that happened, that it was merely a case
of supply and demand and was not due to
“deliberate machinations of the U.S.
Government.”
•
• •
“Ex-ACT”: In the current drive for
trade and better relations with Asia,
Federal Ministers have realised the serious
impact which Australian opposition to the
distribution there of surplus American
wheat could have. Acting Prime Minister
McEwen said the other day that Aus-
tralia was determined to see that ho harm
to our reputation occurred in Asia through
any impression that, in pressing to protect
our commercial opportunities, we would
underrate or obstruct the satisfaction of
real needs in Asia. That posed our
problem, somewhat verbosely. The real
question is what are we doing in Asia
now to counteract the anti-Australian
propaganda already being distributed
there?


Personal
ITEMS
On his 42nd birthday today (Wednes-
day) Professor Donald Cochrane, Sidney
Myer Professor of Commerce at Mel-
bourne University, will be giving an
address at the Long Range Planning
Convention at Terrigal (N. S. W.).
He will offer the 60-odd delegates of this
convention —sponsored by the Australian
Institute of Cost Accountants —an assess-
ment of the future.
Educated at Melbourne High, Mel-
bourne Uni. and Clare College, Cam-
bridge, Cochrane served in the R.A.A.F.
as navigator and flight-lieutenant from
1942-45. He was lecturer in economics at
Melbourne, 1945-46, and senior-lecturer in
mathematical economics’, 1949-54. During
1951-52 he was on loan to the Department
of Economic Affairs of the U.N.
• 9
“Gun” : George Walker, of Ledgworth,
Yass (N.S.W.), who’s been selected as a.
judge at Sydney’s Sheep Show, was
recently shown-over a famous woollen-
mill in Italy. Inscribed over the doors was
this legend: “We buy the best wool in the
world.” The first wool the party saw as
they walked through the doors was five
bales branded: “Ledgworth/Yass.”
• •
After 38 years in public life, Sir
Charles George Latham has decided to
call it a day. Born in England, he
migrated to N.S. Wales as a boy, but soon
moved on to the land at Narembeen
(W.A.). After service with the old 16th
Battalion, he entered the Westralian
Assembly as C.P. member for York in
1921 and held that seat until 1942, when
he was elected to fill an extraordinary
vacancy in the Senate. During the inter-
vening years he had been Leader of the
C.P., Minister for Lands and Health and
Leader of the Opposition. He missed-out
at the election in 1943, and for three years
after that was State Deputy-Director of
Commonwealth Loans. Back in Parlia-
ment in 1946 as M.L.C. for Central Pro-
vince, he became State Deputy-Director
of Recruiting in 1950 and Minister for
Agriculture in 1952. He was knighted in
1948.
9 9
A graduate of the University of Lille
(France), where the Auguste Angelier
School of English is reputed to be among
the best English faculties in the world,
Marcel Chicoteau must be one of very
few Frenchmen to hold medals for elocu-
tion from the Guildhall School of Music
and the English Poetry Society. A
descendant ‘ of Chaillou Saint-Aubin,
engineer-geographer to Louis XVI, he
started work as a translator of cartoon-
captions for an evening-newspaper, and
made his first connection with Australia
when he became French tutor to the
Llewellen-Palmers, grandchildren of Lord
Carrington, former Governor of
N. S. Wales. From 1936-41 he was
lecturer in French at the University of
Wales, at Cardiff, and while there
published his Studies in Symbolist
Psychology, which was favorably
reviewed in England and has since been
reprinted in Australia. With a capital of
10s. and the help of Baldensperger,
Hilaire Belloc, Sir Hugh Walpole and
CONSUL DE FRANCE
Walter de la Mare, M. Chicoteau
(sketched herewith) founded a periodical
on comparative literature of which he
was general-editor from 1940-45. Mean-
while he had become attache at the
French Diplomatic Mission to the
Allied Governments-in-exile in London.
In 1945 he became Vice-Consul for
France in Liverpool and Belfast, and 10
years later moved to Sydney in the same
role. He has just become Deputy Consul
for France in Sydney.
As an author of books and articles on
literature, philosophy, poetry and liturgy,
he has naturally been interested in Aus-
tralian writers. He published an article in
“Southerly” for November, 1958, on
Christopher Brennan’s French verse, with
particular reference to his rhymed
addresses. It was rhymed addresses that
brought M. Chicoteau to The Bulletin
office. He dropped in to show an envelope
sent to him by Dr. Frank Louat, with the
address inscribed in good French verse ;
the postman had duly delivered it at his
office. M. Chicoteau’s English is every
bit as good as you'd expect from his
scholarship, and his taste in waistcoats
impeccable.
Awards approved by the Queen for
members of the A.M.F. in Malaya:
Major Leslie Reginald Claude
Wild, R.A.E.M.E.;
M.C.: Lieut. Claude Henry Ducker,
Royal Australian Infantry;
M.M.: Corporal Maxwell Powell Hanley,
3rd Bn., R.A.R.;
“Mentions”: Lieut.-Colonel John Francis
White, 0.8. E., commanding 3rd Bn.,
R.A.R.; Major Coljn Hubert Alan East,
brigade-major, 28th Commonwealth Infan-
try Brigade; W. 0.11 Alan James Snedden,
R.A.A.; Sgt. Sidney James McLaughlin,
3rd Bn., R.A.R.; Corporal George Wallace
Brown, 3rd Bn., R.A.R.; Pte. Neil Scott
Collins, 3rd Bn., R.A.R.
Major Wild won his decoration for his
conduct in reorganising workshop-establish-
ments in Malaya; and Lieutenant Ducker,
commanding the unit tracking-team, for his
gallantry on many operational patrols and
in particular for two separate sorties in
1958. Corporal Hanley distinguished him-
self in operations throughout 1958, particu-
larly in an ambush last July.
e e
Pat Lawlor: Norman Aitken, passed
on in Wellington (N.Z.) at 74, had four
claims to fame. As a theatrical manager
he gave Marie Fix (later known inter-
nationally as Marie Ney) her first engage-
ment ; with Tony Wood, the tenor, he was
part-owner of Autopay, one, of the best
milers of his time ; he was a most riotous
Charley's Aunt on the amateur stage ; and
as “the postcard-king“early in the century
he sold 20,000 copies of the “The Whole
Dam Family.” He’ll be remembered for
the great work he did in putting-on
charity-shows and also for his likeable
stutter, which always vanished when he
took the boards.
• 9
During the past 10 years overlanding
of stock has been giving way in
Queensland to transport by road-trains.
The pioneer of this type of transportation
was D. M. Fraser, a lawyer who went
from Melbourne to Queensland in 1913
and now directs the affairs of the North
Australian Pastoral Co. (holding-company
for Alexandria Downs, Marion Downs,
Monkira, and Coorabulka) and other
concerns. The first road-train he spon-
sored shifted stock from Alexandria
Downs to Mt. Isa.
• e
“Centurion”: “Boy” Browning (Lieut.-
General Sir Frederick Arthur Montague)
is calling it a day ; he’s been Treasurer
to Prince Philip since 1952, but feels
“old age” —he’s 62 —creeping on. Best-
looking and best-dressed man in the
British Army in his day—and among the
bravest, too, as his record in two wars
shows —he was a holy terror when
adjutant at Sandhurst. Men were so
scared of him that it is recorded that
one “junior,” walking in plain-clothes
with a cigarette in his hand, and passing
the “Boy” in Camberley High Street,
firmly put his fag in his mouth and
threw his cap away. At drill his high-
pitched and clear instruction: “Take
the name of the gentleman seventeenth
from the left of the rear rank of Number
Five Company—idle slope!” brought an
immediate shriek from the drill-sergeant:
“Got him, sir! Mr. Lai, sir!” (This was
an Oriental prince of illustrious lineage


and resounding title, but a notoriously
bad drill.) We suspected that the “Boy”
had a list prepared beforehand of all the
bad drills in the battalion, with their
positions in the ranks noted, and gummed
this to the pommel of his saddle, so that
he could wreak vengeance with rough
justice and at the same time keep up the
standard of drill, which under him was
probably the best in the world. Later,
when the years had mellowed him —or,
perhaps, when the terms of meeting were
not quite so unequal—l still found that,
when he was ehief-of-staff to Lord Louis
in SACSEA, you had to watch your
step when the dead-eye look appeared.
It did no harm to have one’s ego
deflated, though, and Browning was
always fair.
© •
New director of Perth’s park* and
gardens, 43-year-old L. H. Steenbhom,
took diplomas in horticulture, gardening,
garden-design and greenkeeping at Sydney
Technical College before going north to
be assistant-manager of Brisbane's
Department of Parks. He’s favorably
known to radio-listeners as an entertain-
ing adviser on the gentle hobby of
gardening.
e a
“Uramao”: A slab over 2800 years
old, inscribed with Assyrian cuneiform-
characters, has been received by the Turn-
bull Library, Wellington (N. Z.), from
K. A. Webster, who lives in London and
collects Maori artifacts. The “book,” a
biography of King Ashurnasirpal of
Assyria, records the deeds performed by
the king. The gypsum slabs of this
“book” were placed in various parts of a
palace, built about 879 b.c. 20 miles
south of Mosul. Webster obtained part
of one of these slabs from the Montrose
Angus Museum ; the characters have
been translated by the Asiatic antiquities
department of the British Museum.
© 9
Among 135 New Australians, represen-
ting 12 nationalities, who took the oath
of allegiance at a ceremony in the
Perth Town Hall was a young Dutchman,
Diak van Sprang, who has already proved
that he’s determined to become a good
Australian. He has been here six years,
and for the past six months has been
a private in the Australian Regular Army.
9 «
Born in New Zealand, Clifford Abbott
came to Australia in 1956, after study in
England and on the Continent and a spell
of creative work back in* his native
country. Now settled in Sydney with his
artist wife, he’s making himself a name
as one of the most promising of the
younger contemporary orchestral com-
posers. Abbott is enthusiastic about the
opportunity there is in Australia for
composers, who, he says, can exploit here
the full virility of an expanding culture,
which has more to offer the con-
tempory artist than the culture of the old
countries. He has a high regard for the
German composers, notably Paul Hinde-
mith, and has also been influenced by the
modern Russian school which he has
taken as a background for his work.
Abbott has gone a long way since Dr.
Malko first took an interest in his work
two years ago. At present he’s writing a
flute-concerto for Neville Amadio, in
appreciation of the help and encourage-
ment the flautist gave him when he first
came to Sydney.
• •
Now at the Australian Missionary
College at Cooranbong (N.S. W.), study-
ing Greek and Hebrew and the native
languages of New Guinea and Fiji, for
his future missionary work, Leszek
Szymanski was born in Warsaw in 1933.
His studies were interrupted in 1952, when
DR. C. HUXTABLE, Broken Hill’s
flying-doctor.
he was arrested and spent six months in
jail because his views ran counter to those
of the Government. So he didn’t start
his career as a writer until 1956, just
before the October revolution, when he
published several short-stories and printed
and edited an independent journal
“Wspolczesnos” (“The Contemporary”).
In 1956 he went to Moscow for two years,
then won a scholarship which took him
to India researching for a historical novel,
on which he’s still engaged.
• •
“Judee”: These days retired, after
more than 60 years of snips, Tom Clarke,
of Carrington (N.S.W.), clipped the polls
of five generations of one family. The
veteran says that when he was young
all the young bucks wanted a shave in
the Larry Foley style. Foley, boxer and
famous trainer in the stoush profession,
wore wide side-levers cut on an angle,
and no young blood considered himself
well turned-out without a “Foley cut.”
Clarke —now 80 —keeps his energies these
days for bowls, and says: “I’m glad to‘
be out of it; I can’t do flat-tops and
bodgie-styles and I'm too old to learn
now.”
• •
Awarded a post-graduate scholarship in
science by the University of New Zealand,
Warren Wong, a young Chinese, went to
Harvard Graduate School of Arts and
Science under a Fulbright award. There
he did so well that the University of
Otago has now appointed him lecturer in
mathematics. Before going to America,
Wong graduated B.Sc. in 1955 and M.Sc,
with first-class honors in mathematics, in
1956.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 80, Colonel George Cattell
Somerville, C.M.G., D.S.O. Born at Goulb'urn
(N.S.W.), he was educated at Brisbane
Grammar and served throughout War I, being
“mentioned” five times. He was secretary to
the Royal Agricultural Society of N.S.W. from
1924-54, a council member of the N.R.M.A.
and of the A.A.A., and joint hon. sec. of the
Sydney Organising Committee. One of the
founders of Legacy in N. S. Wales.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 57, Father Reginald
O'Connell, Redemptorist vice-provincial for N.Z.
Ordained in Sydney in 1928, he worked in the
missionary-field in Australia and the Philippines
before his N.Z. appointment.
In England, Bertha Bennett Burleigh (Mrs.
G. S. Arthur), a Bulletin black-and-white
artist of an earlier generation, noted for her
decorative drawings satirising the social scene,
especially that of the restless and short-skirted
1920'5.
In Geelong (Vic.), at 72, Morris Jacob, twice
Mayor of Geelong and president of Geelong
Football Club for 10 years. He and his father,
Solomon Jacobs (three times mayor) served the
municipality continuously for more than 50
years.
In Melbourne, at 76, L. A. Righetti, chairman
of the Commonwealth Council of Rifle Clubs
and of the Victorian Rifle Association. He won
11 Queen's badges in different States, led two
teams to the Olympics and Bisley and was
three times Mayor of Malvern (Vic.) and a
president of Portland Shire Council.
At Palmerston North (N.Z.), at 88, Oscar
Monrad, farmer and public figure in the Mana-
watu district. He was a son of Bishop Ditley
G. Monrad, the Prime Minister of Denmark
who lost his post in the 1863 dispute with
Prussia over Schleswig-Holstein and came to
New Zealand to take-up land in the Manawatu.
Oscar was a foundation-member of the North
Island Land Valuers’ Association and first
president of the Danish Society of Palmerston
North. He was honored by the King of
Denmark with the Danish Liberation Medal.
In Adelaide, at 78, Rev. H. H. Hopton, who
was ordained in 1906 and spent a year in
London's East End before returning to Beech
Forest (Vic.) and later serving in South
Australia. '
At Taupo (N.Z.), at 68, Puatata Alfred Grace,
0.8. E., grandson of Rev. T. S. Grace, who
founded the Anglican mission at Lake Taupo
in 1846. A member of the Maori Affairs
Department and secretary of the Tuwharetoa
Trust Board, Grace was descended, on his
mother’s side, from the Maori tribe of
Turangitukua.
In Sydney, at 83, Dr. George Moncrieff
Barron, pioneer of the Far West Children's
Health Service, its chairman until June, 1958,
and a former chairman of the British Medical
Association in N. S. Wales.
In Melbourne, Roy Cotton, chief inquiry-
officer of the Victorian Premier’s Department
and a member of the Public Service Board
since 1936.


ABORIGINAHTIES
■COR an example of how Nature goes
about clothing the globe’s bare spaces,
examine the sandhills reaching back from
the seashore along W.A.’s west coast.
Close to the water’s edge, almost washed
by the waves in places, are plants,
obviously salt - tolerant, which fruit
readily and gain such a foothold in the
moist sand that they can hang on
through the dry summer and stand up
to the howling gales of winter. The gales
prune them almost to ground-level ; but
they also heap sand around the roots,
partly burying the plants and forcing
their upward growth. As they grow they
can support more sand, so sandhills
develop which can shelter and support
plants only slightly less hardy and almost
as salt-tolerant—some of the hardier of
the spinifexes. Having what botanists
. call a rhyzome habit —they have root-like
stems which send roots down and shoots
up—they can fight their way through the
covering sands and grow as the sandhills
develop.
The sand, being composed mainly of
pulverised shells, is highly calcareous ;
and the wind which brings it to the first
of the sandhills carries it further, de-
nuding the first rise to build successive
hills behind it. These hills bring more
shelter and provide a foothold for plants
less hardy still, which clothe them and
provide shelter again for plants further
back, until banksias and associated shrubs
are growing a couple of hundred yards
from the tideline. Half-a-mile from the
beach are jarrahs, red-gums and white-
gums and hundreds of species of shrubs
and ground-hugging plants. These are
much higher in the evolutionary scale
than the salt-tolerants along the shore ;
but they wouldn’t be there if the humbler
members of their kingdom hadn’t been
endowed with an inconquerable will to
live.
Kelms.
* * * *
“Yb Sul”: More coffin-nails for the
lingo. Heard some young Army types
speaking stripese: “We were on the
corner diggin’ these dreamboats and up
came their squares! Pow ! Clunk! Man,
you gotta be rugged!” Hard to blame
the lads when the Australian forces’
top-brass have officially condoned
Transportability, thereby leaving
America's “transportation” for dead.
This transports me to a tearful teenager’s
strange thrust when refused permission
to join a riotous pyjama-party: “ Mother!
Don’t be so pitiable!” Warning is here
issued about a watch plugged in a U.S.
magazine as Ultrasonic. Any timepiece
that goes faster than sound can only
add to the confusion already reigning on
our planet. My small daughter muttered
“Count-down!” when a warning-bell
rang for hospital visitors. If this spreads
we’ll have boxing-refs, enumerating over
losers from 10 back to zero. And without
suspicionising any massive savagery in
recent offstage snarls, I’m introspecting
that future entertainers visiting our shores
may circumspect themselves here.
“Pieter Nuyts”: Graphite as a lubri-
cant (B. 29/4/’59)? As a trainee tele-
phone-mechanic I found you can’t apply
oil to the keys of a telephone switch-
board. A rub with a stick of blacklead or
even with a soft black lead-pencil every
few months kept the keys working
smoothly.
* * * *
“Merino”: At Welltown, Goondiwindi
(Q.), a pastoral property with a back-
ground of 120 years, there can still be
seen the “beauty parlor” in which the
jumbucks were once given the full treat-
ment before shearing. Then, few clips
were marketed in the grease, and sheep
were subjected to “pressure-cooker” treat-
ment in sweating-sheds (110 deg.) before
they were moved on for cold-water treat-
ment, spouted from a creek. After that
they were pummelled until the fleece was
thoroughly clean before they staggered
out to dry in the draining-yard. In those
days the men handling the sheep got
6s. 6d. a day and the sheep got rheuma-
tism. Later some stations used hot water
on the sheep before massage— and a cold
shower.
* * * *
“Piketrailer”: So the Normans started
it all! Apparently the rabbit was
unknown in England pre-Conquest, as the
Anglo-Saxons had a name for the hare
but not for bunny, and the Domesday
Book has no records of warrens. But from
the end of the 12th century they were on
the Scillies and the Isle of Wight, and by
the 14th century were well dug-in on the
mainland. That collection of . rabbit-
holes we tend to call a warren is, strictly
speaking, a bury ; a warren is a piece Of
ground for keeping rabbits under semi-
domestication—in England, of course!
Hence the many Warren Farms in the
Old Country today.
* * * *
“Heresone”: Nearly two years ago I
made a small dam in a gully near the
house, mainly to see whether the soil
would hold water. It filled for the first
time in February, and has since shrunk
to a muddy puddle. But for a month or
so it has been home to a white-necked
heron and a spoonbill, who made a
meagre living fishing it. They should be
respectively mating by now —or has the
bird-world its misogynists' clubs too?
* * * *
“Myall”: Beware of that popular
garden-shrub the angel's-trumpet (Brug-
mansia knightii), which, for all its beauty
of leaf and sweetly-perfumed blooms, is
deadly. It belongs to the Datura family,
all of which contain powerful narcotic
poisons, and several people have died
after eating its leaves or flowers. Medical
aid should be sought immediately for any
person who eats any part of the plant.
Symptons vary according to the amount
eaten and the age of the victim, and often
appear in a few minutes. They may
include giddiness, yawning, dryness of the
throat, a bitter taste and burning sensa-
tion in the mouth, impairment of vision,
a “staggering” effect and a progressive
restlessness, which may develop into
delirium.
* * * *
“Spin”: A Russian ship is reported to
have sighted in the Antarctic an iceberg
60 miles long—“bigger than the one that
sank the Titanic,” which is like comparing
the Queen Elizabeth with “the biggest
canoe in Pawtucket.” The berg the
Titanic hit was the calf of a glacier which
had pushed its way down from the
mountains and into the sea. In a case
like that, when the toe protrudes so far
out to sea that the overhang is heavier
than the glacier can support, it breaks
off and another berg moves south. It may
be anything up to a mile long and up to
500 ft. high. You’ll also see that type


\ 7 _ n
Ckipes PAP , THt Solu - Erosion’s 1 ©AP W Hcß£ .


of berg in the Antarctic, because there
are glaciers down there, too ; but, in
addition, in the south there are barrier-
bergs—immense flat-topped islands of
floating-ice broken off the barrier shelves.
They’re not over-high, usually from 100 ft.
to 150 ft., but they can be the best part of
100 miles long. One nearly that big was
sighted heading towards Australia a
couple of years back. It melted before it
reached the shipping-lanes.
* * * *
“Brolga”: The cattle-drover who told
“Duke” Tritton to ride round the camp-
ing mob in silence differed from any
drover I ever worked for. First time I
ever went on watch, Charlie Burr, taking
a mob of speyed cows from Alroy Downs
(N.T.) to the channel-country of s.-w.
Queensland, said: “Talk, recite, whistle
or sing while you’re riding round. Not
because you’re going to croon those cows
to sleep, but just to let them know there’s
someone about, and particularly to make
sure that the odd beast which- will keep
poking out of the mob for a few mouth-
fuls of grass is not scared if you ride
“It's going to have a sapling!”
right on to it before you can s£e it.
If they hear you corning they’ll mostly
turn quietly back on to the ..camp of
their own accord.” But there can, of
course, be too much noise. On cattle-
camps near coolibah-shaded creeks a
stockman would be sent round the. trees
at nightfall, as the cattle were moving
on to camp, to frighten the roosting
galahs out of the trees, for a sudden -
squawking in the night could scare 'the
resting cattle into a rush.
* * * *
“Wulworra”: It’s rather • odd that
although the name “taipan” is now well,
known, and although the snake itself
has lately been found almost as far south
as Brisbane, next to nothing was heard
of it until recent years. Bernard Hesling,
in his entertaining autobiography, Little
and Orphan, proclaims that he heard of
Australia as the home of “the deadly
taipan” back in 1916, but in fact the
name wasn’t invented until long after
that. First collected in 1867, near Rock-
hampton, this formidable reptile was
regarded as a large member of the black-
snake group and was scientifically termed
Pseudechis scutellatus. Then it faded
from notice. Much later (1923) examples
of a large snake obtained in the
Cape York area and were sent to Sydney,
where they were regarded as a new
species and named Oxyuranus maclen-
nani. Later again it was found that the
Cape York specimens were identical with
the Rockhampton product of ’67, but
they didn’t belong to the genus
Pseudechis, and so the species became
known as Oxyuranus scutellatus, with
the abo. term “taipan” as a vernacular.
Now, after being lost to attention for
so long, this large-fanged poisoner is
famous; practically all of eastern
Queensland is taipan-conscious, and a
special anti-venine to combat the venom
has been (and is being) prepared by the
Commonwealth Serum Laboratories.
“Inglegar”: At nesting - time the
babblers (happy-Jacks) all pitch-in and
-
lenjd -a" hand. Back o’ Nyngan (N.S.W.)
I saw a mob of 20 or so pull to bits an
old side-entrance stick affair and rebuild
it, stick by stick, in another tree, with a
few new twigs added. Only one pair
took-over-.
¥ * • * *
“Harbeff’: Trying-out the echo at
Echo Point, Blue Mountains (N.S.W.),
my mate gave out a “Cooee!” which
prompted me to chiack him for emitting
the most typically - Australian sound
known—in a Scottish accent. He sur-
prised me by asking whether I was sure
the call was Australian. My informa-
tion that it is recognised as having been
an aboriginal call, allegedly used as an
SOS, and reputed to have been adopted
as such because it was completely un-
like any other sound to be heard in
the Australian bush, did not impress him.
He recalled the time, nearly 40 years
ago, when the mailman used to announce
that he had letters by stopping on the
roadside and cooeeing so that a certain
bairn could run through the woods to
collect the mail —and a penny. And that
postman, he was prepared to swear on
a sacred haggis, hac| never been out of
Scotland, never seen an Australian, and
knew about as much of Australian
aboriginal expressions as King Billy knew
about Young Lochinvar.
* * * *
“Paddy”: Sighting china-eggs on both
sides of the wire-netting fence, I remarked
to the chook-owner that he was an
optimist if he thought they’d lay outside.
“They’re not to encourage the hens,” he
said; “they’re to catch snakes. Joe
swallows the outside goog, pokes his head
through the wire and bolts-down the
other, and, while he’s thrashing around,
caught between the two bulges, I reach
for the waddy.’y
* * * #
“Angus McScupper”: We never ate
salmagundis (B. 29/4/’59) —we attended
’em! They were “miscellanies,” and after
you had done your bit and sung
“Because” there was no social obligation
to listen to Mr. Wheelbarrow elocuting
“Gunga Din,” so you could disappear
with Euphemia into the rose-garden.
% £
are baffling
enough without analysing their
phonetics (B. 22/4/’59). A bull’s vocal
decibels, when' he stages a turn against
some other bull (real or imaginary),
exceed those when his thoughts turn to
cows, particularly in those harsh draw-
back effects he obtains- while breathing in
after bellowing out. He can be. pawing
earth, snorting fire and putting on a
terrific show against another bull, but,
given a forkful of hay, will be quite
happy to do some munching and post-
pone the histrionics. But why does Butter-"
cup, when calf is tardy coming out of the
scrub and late for tea, bellow the same
indignant volume at it even after calf has,
ambled a quarter of a mile to her and is
within 10yds.? It then stops and bellows
back at her, breaks into a canter and.
dives into the overfull milkbar as though
perishing for a drink. This cow-calf
bellowing misleads the yearling bulls in
adjacent paddocks to start wolf-whistling
with the idea that she desires male
company, but the old bull is never
fooled.
The nadir of bovine guttural sound is
the short, electrifying general-alarm when
a stray dog, dingo or fox moves within a
few chains of young calves. Irrespective
of class-distinction or domestic tiffs, all
hearing cows come at a gallop to the
danger-point. While this earth-shaking
manoeuvre takes place the noble guardian
of the herd—the magnificently-horned
bull —can be observed uninterruptedly
stuffing his hide with clover.
The obvious mouth-closed sound is the
bovine purr, audible chains away, which
in any language is the apex of loving
maternal expression and means that
proud Strawberry has just got new-born
calf up on its tottering legs for its first
drink.
JESMONDINE.


Meeting the Mokolkols
By D. M. FIENBERG
IN a report to the United Nations the Administration of the Trust Territory of New Guinea
included the following note.—
“The Mokoikol people were visited by Mr. D. M. Fienberg, Assistant District Officer, and
Mr. C. Norn.oyle, Cadet Patrol Officer. . . . For more than a quarter of a century the Mokolkols
have been known to the Administration as a small band of primitive nomads, apparently of
Gainings origin, living in the country at the foot of the Gazelle Peninsula. Administratively
they have enjoyed a notoriety disproportionate to their slight numerical importance, through
their long-standing habit of raiding outlying hamlets, wantonly butchering men, women and
children, and disappearing without trace. Before the war several patrols endeavored to get into
friendly contact with these people, but they were alway s met with hostility.”
The patrol-party is about to enter a Mokolkol village.
( Continued )
IN usual mountain fashion,
the place where we had
finally located the Mokol-
kols was strategically sited
atop a little rise, and we
guessed that the rioge fell away
steeply on the far side.
We were stiff hidden by a
final twist in the trail, and a
cautious reconnaissance showed
that to gain the village necessi-
tated cross.ng a shallow little
saddle, almost devoid of tim-
ber, where we would be in
plain view of anyone chancing
to look down. Fifty-yards was
a longish start to give a
Mokoikdl.
" -I detailed Corporal Kindili,
with three constables, to work
around Side of the ridge to
the gully on the far side,
*ehecked my watch with his,
&nd gave him 15 minutes to
get into position. Our job was
to rush the huts and try to
prevent egress from the dog-
kennel doorways. Kindili’s
team was to grab any fugitives
diving into the gully.
Squatting, we sweated it out,
cringing when two hornbills,
mercifully unobservant, lum-
bered overhead with swishing
wings. Under the stress of
imminent action the brown-
faced Melanesians seemed to
go paler. With their brows
pulled down, wide nostrils
flared and lips retracted, they
looked a nasty bunch. Only
old Moite, nonchalantly biting
on a betelnut, battered felt hat
jauntily atop his grey wool,
seemed unperturbed. A young
constable began to unsheath
his bayonet, and I irritably
motioned him to desist.
Young Chris, a schoolboy
during the war,' and new to
this sort of show, crept up
and whispered : “What happens
if they turn out to be Japs?”
Against that contingency he
had lugged an Owen sub-
machine-gun for the whole trip.
1 patted it and whispered back:
“You go in and win a V.C.,
boy. i’ll write the citation.”
In the village somebody called
out, loudly, then a woman
laughed.
Another minute, and we
moved in.
TTUTith only 20yds. to go, a
* * large black pig came
snuffling into view, sighted us,
and stampeded in snorting
alarm. A talj, gaunt, middle-
aged woman immediately
peered around a hut wall,
emitted a fearsome yell, and
Then we reached the
streaked across the ridge,
plaza. For a few seconds
there was pandemonium,
dominated by the high-
pitched screams of children
struggling in the arms of
Nakanais. Most of the huts
were empty. A huge,
bearded fellow, grimacing
horribly, with an axe in
each hand, began to emerge,
stooping, from a doorway
on the far side, whilst two
Nakanais backed away.
Hoping not to hit him, 1
put a hasty carbine-shot
into the dirt at "his feet, and
he drew back.
Behind me, two police
struggled to slip handcuffs
on axeman they had
disarmed. Two reports boomed,
in the gully; a woman main-
tained a frenzied repetitious
call. Then things quietened
down.
It took quite a little time to
winkle the big man out of his
dark lair. He made signs for
us to kill him there and then.
We sorted out the catch: two
men, a woman, four children.
Not very good. The gaunt lady
athlete had escaped, after clout-
ing Constable Tingi with a
piece of wood. He had fired
after her in anger ; he was later
awarded extra guard-duty.
The captives were uninjured,
and, apart from Tingi’s bleed-
ing ear and badly wounded
vanity, our only casualty was
a carrier whom one of the
children had bitten.
This being a legalistic age,
and feeling suddenly facetious,
1 went through the ludicrous
formality of telling the sullen,
uncomprehending captives, in
English, that 1 held a warrant
for their arrest for murder.
After posting guards, I sent
Bill a note, telling him to cache
part of the rice and have the
main party carry up as much
water as possible.
The carriers arrived in high
spirits and were even happier
Lama, Maid and the woman Manu outside a hut in Atar, the
Mokolkol village, shortly after capture.
when they sighted a large heap
of beautiful taro-corms. Tn
New Guinea society, to. eat
your enemy s food and some-
times his person—is to imprint
the seal of Victory. Besides,
they were tired of rice,
Thick bush covered the
slopes on three sides of the
tiny clearing, and, remember-
ing Penhallurick’s unfortunate
experience, I set the line to
building a crude anti-blit zkreig
fence. They needed no urg-
ing, and finished the job by
sundown. There was some
minor excitement when eight
pigs, seeking their evening
meal, appeared silently out of
the darkening bush. Moite
importuned, and Tolat long-
ingly drew beads, but I was
adamant; after sniffing at us
briefly, the hogs vanished as
silently as they had come. We
did not sight them again.
Tn the meantime, to forestall
looting, Chris concentrated
all the village chattels in one
hunt. The articles indicated a
typical Bainings culture:
crudely utilitarian.
Except for a few beaded
armlets, probably stolen, per-
sonal ornaments were singu-
larly lacking; nor were any
implements decorated with the
magic motifs beloved by the
artistic Melanesians. There
were no cooking-vessels, food
being either baked in the Are
or roasted in pits between
layers of heated stones.
Bamboo water-carriers and
lime - containers, string - bags,
expertly constructed flexible
wicker-baskets, oystershell and
obsidian taro-scrapers, digging-
sticks, crochet-hooks wrought
from the wing-bones of flying-
foxes, a few stone adze-heads,
a doughnut-type stone club-
head, slings and water-rounded
sling-stones, torches of con-
gealed canarium-almond sap,
and lengths of limbom-palm
pith impregnated with sea-
water, made up the household
goods of local manufacture.
Wooden spears apparently
had been discarded in favor
of looted coastal pig-spears,
made from steel rods and
mounted in bamboo handles.
One of these, bound with U.S.
Army telephone-cable, was
newly made, and I set it aside.
Curiously, for raiders addicted
to attacking people in gardens,
there were very few knives, but
this deficiency was more than
compensated for by the ham-
let’s wealth in axes. We
counted 42 of them, mostly
light tomahawk-heads. Many
were worn-out, their temper
o Continued on page 82)


MULLENS & CO.
A H. URQUHART, M. D. PASSMORE, K. W. A.
Members of ike Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
BRIDGES
Telephone
P.WSI7I (3 lines) 8L5327
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECE.LEX.” Sydney
PRING DEAN & CO.
H. H. Dean, V. J. Berner, W. L. Hunt, J. A. Hudson.
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
27 Hunter St., SYDXEY. Telephone: BW4OII (3 lines)
Telegrams Address: Bring Stock Exchange, Sydney.
Cables Address: Unwar, Sydney.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
FINANCIAL BREATHING-SPACE
\lS7ith yields from so many
** favored equity shares
down to between 2y p.c. and
4 p.c., it is clear that investors
are relying on new issues and
other forms of capital-accre-
tion to justify their optimism.
It comes as a jolt to their
confidence, then, when, instead
of a share-issue, a note-issue is
made with —or without—full
or partial rights of participa-
tion in it.
The major chain-stores have
tended to unsettle the con-
fidence of investors by their
unusual methods of raising
capital. In the 1957 term
Woolworths issued 1,283,924
shares at a premium of 11s. a
share to outsiders for the pur-
pose of acquiring certain pro-
perties. The £790,676 of
premiums which came in
assisted in offsetting the high
cost of present-day building.
But, it was then stated, “except
for the occasional issues which
may be made for the foregoing
purpose, it is the intention of
the board to adhere to the
policy of making all issues of
capital for trading purposes
direct to its own shareholders.”
In May, 1957, the board
honored this promise by offer-
ing a one-for-two par issue
direct to its shareholders.
Some small issues were later
made to employees and to
finance property-purchase, in
each case at a premium.
Then in March, 1958,
3,049,905 ords. were issued in
exchange for the shares in
B.C.C. Stores, Brisbane. This,
too, was quite a normal opera-
tion, and the shares, then
around 19s. 6d., later rose to a
“high” of 21s. 3d. this year.
Now it has. been revealed
that there has been a private
placement of 7 p.c. unsecured
notes to the value of £2,000,000
through a sharebroker.
Whilst it is not usual for a
company to tell its shareholders
immediately when it raises a
mortgage or increases its bank-
overdraft, it has become more-
or-less customary for note-
money to be placed publicly,
and, where possible, for share-
holders to be given some rights
or privileges in the issue.
But, for whatever reason, the
sharemarket has taken a dim
view of the transaction. Fol-
lowing an announcement by
the co.’s chairman that some
“Good news, Darling! The boss lashed-out in a rage,
and 1 get Worker's compensation !”
new lines handled by the co.
were showing a narrower
margin than the traditional
chain-store articles, there was
a tendency for the shares to
recede from their 1959 peak.
Following the news of the
private note-issue the ss. shares
dropped more sharply, and last
week had slipped down to be-
low 18s., then recovered to
18s. 4|d.
At the weekend it was stated
by the directors that the
£2-ntillion of unsecured notes,
half maturing in 15 years, the
rest in 25 years, were issued to
replace short-term existing
loans.
At the same time it was
announced that an issue of
about £2-million of 6 p.c. con-
vertible notes would be made
to shareholders later this year
(in the proportion of approxi-'
mately one-for-five).
Woolworths’ chief rival,
G. J. Coles, adopted a novel
capital-raising method earlier
this year when it made a place-
ment of 2,400,000 ss. ords.
through lan Potter and Co. at
a premium of 12s. 9d. a share,
less 3d. brokerage, to the
nominees of Potter. But to-
soften the disappointment to
shareholders, it was announced
concurrently that a bonus-issue
of one-for-10 would be made to
shareholders.
By making the issue in this
manner less office-work was
involved, and shareholders -in
N.Z. had no problem in respect
of currency, since no cash sub-
scription at par on a “rights”
basis was involved.
But that such financial
finesse has become necessary,
more especially in the case of
Woolworths, has certainly
given the present enthusiastic
sharemarket heavier food for
thought than it has been in
the habit of taking of recent
years.
The issue of notes, of
“options” and convertible notes
by a variety of companies has
indicated the extent to which
managements have become
concerned about the incidence
of company-tax and the lag
between the time capital is
raised and the time at which
it will become self-supporting
by its profit-earning.
The shortage of capital, and
the high rate of interest which
is payable for borrowed
money, have made the retention
of profits almost imperative in
the case of many companies—
it is customary nowauays for
an expanding company to
retain at least half its dis-
closed profits.
An indication of the need
for profit-retention by com-
panies even of the size of
B.H.P. was given at the time
of its bonus-issue late in 1957.
This issue was made by
the capitalisation of share-
premiums, and afterwards the
div.-rate was dropped from
10 p.c. to 8| p.c., so that share-
holders received no more in
divmends on their increased
sharehoiaing than they had
done before.
But by dropping the rate
from 10 p.c. to 8| p.c. the
two big new
which have since been made
for cash to shareholders have
carried a much lighter div.-
buraen than they might have
otherwise done, and ,more
profit has been available to
plough-back into the co.’s
expansion.
In this instance, shareholders
have not been at all dismayed.
B.H.P. share prices have gone
from peak to peak with the
announcement of new issues,
even though the yield has fallen
to just over 3 p.c.
Current financial methods,
mostly aimed at lessening
immediate taxation and dividend
commitments, should in the
end result in the strengthening
of the earning-power of the
company concerned in rela-
tion to its share-capital. But
shareholders who are looking
for immediate market benefits
—let alone dividend increases
—may find reason to pause if
present trends in the art of
keen finance acquire too keen
an edge.


J. T. HARRY & DIXON
(Eric E. Dixon, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
113 Pitt St.,
Sydney
Telephone: BL 1987
Tel. Add.: “Harry Stock Exchange,” Sydney
A safe and profitable
INVESTMENT
m
p.Q
o
mu
W
m.
AND OVER
9% for 2 years 8% for 1 year
Guaranteed by
an Independent
Insurance Company
who issue a separate indemnity policy direct to the
depositor, covering principal and interest.
® Your money is guaranteed by an independent
Insurance Company who, if necessary, are liable to
repay your principal and interest.
# Interest is paid quarterly.
& £5OO accrues to £1,023 in 71 years.
This outstanding investment is again available with
Manufacturers'
(N.S.W.) FINANCE COMPANY
2nd Floor, Northern House, 13/15 O'Connell St., Sydney.
Telephone BW 2661 (10 lines).
Ml 9
POST THIS COUPON
Manufacturers' (N.S.W.) Finance Company,
Box 4790, G.P.0., Sydney, for detailed brochure.
YOUR NAME
YOUR ADDRESS
For Three-year Holding
TThe three holding-cos. in
Australian Gypsum Pro-
ducts Pty., Ltd. —they are Aus-
tralian Gypsum (Sydney),
Victor Electric Plaster (Mel-
bourne) and Peninsula Plaster
(Melbourne) are suggested
this week as likely to repay
holding over a period of two
or three years. Australian
Gypsum is priced at 505., to
return 4 p.c., while the two
Melbourne cos. are the better
buying by a shilling or two.
Shares in all three holding cos.
represent a similar equity in
the operating-co.
The annual public dividends
are more than twice-covered
by disclosed earnings of the
operating co., and taxation pro-
vision suggests that the true
profit is more than three times
the dividend.
When plant-extension is
complete profits should benefit
further, and coincidentally the
need for retention will not be
so great.
U.K. “Portfolio” Investing
A lthough “direct” invest-
in Australia by United
Kingdom companies has been
going on at a steady pace for
many years, from the Austra-
lian Agricultural Company
(1824), the Van Diemen’s Land
Company (1825), the Bank of
Australasia (1835), Australian
Mercantile Land and Finance
(1863), South Australian Land,
Mortgage and Agency Com-
pany (1880), sporadic mining
cos. (many on the Golden Mile
and at Broken Hill), Common-
wealth Portland Cement, Ltd.
(1900), ICIANZ (1928—at the
annual meeting of 1.C.1. in
London on May 14 Sir Alex-
ander Fleck referred to “our
Australian subsidiary”) and
more recently the British
Motor Corporation, it has not
been a general practice for
British investors to buy, as
investment stocks, shares in
companies controlled in Aus-
tralia. The exceptions to the
rule have been mainly the
Broken Hill companies (includ-
ing 8.H.P.), with which the
British investors had already
become partly familiar through
their own Zinc Corp. and
Sulphide Corp.
About five years ago an
enterprising partner in a
London Stock Exchange firm
arrived in Australia and did
a wide tour of Australian
industries, including the boom-
ing base-metal areas. Uranium,
rutile and wolfram had drawn
London attention to Australia
as well as to Canada and the
United States. -Every country
periodically likes its mining
speculation, and, with no in-
digenous mining boom, U.K.
investors looked abroad.
Already Canada was being
flooded with U.S. money and
a'considerable amount of U.K.
investors’ funds, and the invest-
ment virtues of Canadian
industrial stocks as well as its
mines were appreciated.
When the London stock-
broker returned to Australia a
couple of years later he was
as much interested in our
industrials as our mines, and
was impressed also by the
possibilities of the h.-p.
business.
Other London financial men
were popping in and out of
Australia ; and towards the end
of 1957 Harold Wincott, editor
of the “Investors Chronicle,”
did a tour of Australia, and
wrote a series of articles for
his paper and the “Financial
Times,” and these articles were
subsequently reprinted for
private circulation in Australia
by Melbourne sharebrokers
J. B. Were and Son.
Harold Wincott sought the
opinion of representative Aus-
tralian brokers as to what they
considered the “Top Six” Aus-
tralian equity shares, and in
reply got ICIANZ, 8.H.P.,
A.C.1., G. J. Coles, Common-
wealth Industrial Gases,
Colonial Sugar and E.Z. In-
dustries. Another “Top Six”
selections, but with only one
backer, were Mt. Isa, Waltons-
Sears, Industrial Acceptance,
Johns and Waygood, Myer,
Kandos, Burns Philp.
A “Second Six” selection
from the brokers was Repco,
Australian Guarantee, A.W.A.,
ARC Industries, Boral and
Ampol.
U.K. investors who heeded
Harold Wincott’s report and
spread their money over the 18
stocks have done very well
indeed. Boral has been one of
the few sharemarket disap-
pointments. Several of the
stocks have shown great share-
market appreciation.
It has now become clear that
selected Australian industrial
shares have received the
approval of many “portfolio”
investors in the U.K. The in-
rush of London money to the
Australian sharemarkets has
been an added factor tending
to increase further prices in an
already ‘freak” sharemarket.
One of the incentives towards
U.K. residents buying Aus-
tralian shares is the tax
advantages they gain under
present tax arrangements be-
tween the two countries.
It is necessary to distinguish
between this portfolio invest-
ment and direct investment.
Under the direct U.K. invest-
ment which has been going on
in Australia since the days of
the A.A. Company, permanent
funds have been transferred to
this country, and often per-
manent citizens with it.
Portfolio investing, in
Australia by a U.K. citizen,
on the other hand, can be
as temporary as it can
by an Australian. In other
words, it may be terminated by
selling on the Stock Exchange
within a matter of hours, as it
can by an investor in Sydney
or Melbourne.
The Canadian stock-market
has already had experience of
the ephemeral nature of U.K.
portfolio-investing as distinct
from the direct investment of
money by such institutions as
the Hudson’s Bay Company,
Bowaters and (repeat “institu-
tions”) Lord Beaverbrook.
The entry of U.K. investors
to day-by-day trading on Aus-
tralian Stock Exchanges must
be welcomed. Any economy
developing to world import-
ance as an industrial and finan-
cial centre should encourage
investment and the market-
ability of investments. But the
Australian investor should
recognise “portfolio” invest-
ment, from whatever source,
for what it is. It is not neces-
sarily permanent, and it has
come to Australia at a time
when there is already a scrip-
shortage.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 18 78
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
• DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director.
F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
0. S. PETTERSEN, . Manager.
Branches in nil States
Agencies in all Country Centres
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. F. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, R. A. McINNES, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Fife Building:,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 (4 Fines) P.O. Box No. 1887 W
TV Battle in Queensland
Electrical-appliance stores
are taking positions for the
opening of the TV-season in
July.
Southern retailers have been
moving into Brisbane in antici-
pation of a boom similar to
that experienced in Sydney and
Melbourne.
The H. G. Palmer-Music
Masters group is well estab-
lished, with five stores in the
city and suburbs and four more
on the planning-boards.
Chandlers (Aust.) has issued
£lOO,OOO through its hire-
purchase subsidiary to assist in
financing the sale of TV-sets
through its 14 city and country
outlets. y
Inglis Electric Pty., Ltd., has
moved into the field by estab-
lishing two stores in Brisbane.
Further expansion into the
suburbs is planned. Sydney-
based retailer Eric Anderson is
at present negotiating with
Packard Bell Pty. to take-over
and expand the present organi-
sations. Departmental stores
and smaller retailers are also
hoping to climb on the band-
wagon. However, the “ama-
teurs” may receive some keen
competition from the well-
experienced southern “pro-
fessionals.”
Lennons Hotel
'T’he lift in dividend-rate by
Lennons Hotel (Brisbane)
to 15 p.c. p.a. was fortunate for
those speculators who bought
on the recent take-over rumor.
But at the current price, 375.,
the £1 ordinary shares yield
8.1 p.c.
Perhaps the market is recog-
nising that operations of the
subsidiary companies have not
been so good.
Lennons Hotel (Brisbane)
has increased its shareholding
in Lennons Broadbeach Hotel,
Ltd., to 199,271 £1 ords., and
in Lennons Toowoomba
Hotel, Ltd., to 149,005 £1 ords.
These shareholdings are in-
cluded in the accounts of the
parent at cost (205.). However,
the market-value is consider-
ably lower—Lennons Broad-
beach and Lennorts Too-
woomba are currently selling
at 11s.
Lennons (Brisbane) holds all
the issued capital of Lennons
Kirra Hotel, Ltd. (£65,000).
The parent has made advances
to Lennons Broadbeach to the
extent of £50,000 and Lennons
Kirra to the extent of £35,000.
At 245. 9d. the 7 p.c. un-
secured notes of Lennons
Hotel give a buyer a yield of
5.6 p.c. On maturity in June,
1962, noteholders will receive
half of the nominal value of
the notes in cash and the other
half by the allotment of fully-
paid £1 ord. shares at par.
Overseas Reserves
HThe researches of the Insti-
tute of Public Affairs Vic-
toria indicate that the Federal
“Causing panic and danger to human life and exceeding the speed-limit .”
Government and the central
bank regard about £350
million as the danger-point in
the level of overseas reserves.
Australia is more exposed to
wide and sudden swings in ex-
port income than most
countries because our exports
are so dependent on one
product—wool, the price of
which is notoriously variable.
It is not prudent to depend
on our current receipts from
exports to meet payments for
vital imports because not only
are the receipts frequently in-
sufficient, but there is no sound
foundation from year to year
on which to estimate how
much they will be.
International reserves, in
Australian million-p oun d s,
were 61 in 1938-39; 630 in
1949-50; 355 in 1955-56 and
525 in 1957-58.
The Institute's estimate of
fully adequate reserves is about
£5OO million, around 50 pel
cent, of our current annual
overseas payments of about
£lOOO million.
Under conditions of free
importation, imports may rise
as high as £l2OO million a
year instead of the £BOO
million at present. Any further
substantial reduction of im-
ports would react detriment-
ally on one or more of the
basic objectives of Australian
economic policy, the mainten-
ance of living standards, em-
ployment and the development
and migration programme.
The margin for reducing im-
ports below £BOO million is
thin. Producers’ materials
comprise 53 per cent, of all
imports and capital-equipment
22 per cent. Consumer-goods
imports amount to £l4l million,
18 per cent; and £BO million
of this is represented by such
essentials as tea, coffee, phar-
maceuticals and books, which
already receive special licens-
ing treatment.
The less - essential category
would be difficult to cut,
because it comprises imports
from such countries as France
and Japan, which already have
unfavorable trade - balances
with Australia.
The continuation of the great
programme of national develop-
ment and the population-
increase, in addition to the
clamor for improved living-
standards, will mean a strong
and probably increasing de-
mand for imports of many
kinds. On the capacity of the
Australian economy to finance
these demands, mainly by ex-
port earnings, hangs the ful-
filment of these ambitious
objectives.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
jOSULUVa^j
PTY . ITD .A
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin," to
be posted weekly to——?
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to. country cheques ,
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to "The Bulletin" or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
Festival of Australiana
In its Wilson Hall, Mel-
bourne University has been
holding a Festival of Aus-
traliana.
Errors and omissions ex-
cepted, everything is in it. The
original owners of Australia
are represented by shields,
boomerangs, stone knives and
other lethal weapons which are
all much more tastefully
decorated than the Wilson
Hall, with its appalling frescoes.
Aboriginal art is exemplified
in carved throwing-clubs,
churingas, etc., but Albert
Narrtatjira’s painting has been
excluded, presumably because
it isn’t truly aboriginal (in
which case it would be difficult
to understand why Arthur
Boyd’s huge allegory, “The
Escaped Bride,” is included).
Discovery is represented by
the original MSS. of George
Bass; the garrison-orders of
Lieut.-Governor Collins, Sul-
livan Bay, Sorrento, 1803 (the
first piece of printing in Vic-
toria); an entrancing picture
by Zoffany of Captain Cook
trying to convince his patron,
Sir Joseph Banks, of the
advantages of financing his ex-
pedition (Sir J. not looking too
responsive) ; and a pair of leg-
irons which a freedom-loving
convict discovered could be
distorted and escaped from.
The Henty section contains
teapots, goblets, chairs and
earrings, all indicating a higher
standard of elegance among
these rough island pioneers
than in some of their suc-
cessors. The most interesting
item in the Batman-Fawkner
section is the first engraving of
Melbourne as seen from the
south bank of the Yarra in
1839 —it was already no slouch
of a village.
Nineteenth - century Mel-
bourne is represented by a
pencil-sketch of a rabbit-
auction in the Fish Market,
1872 ; a model of the double-
decker horse-drawn bus which
ran up Bourke Street in the
late ’eighties ; and the famous
dress worn by Mrs. Butters at
the Mayoral Ball, circa 1890.
There is also a magnificent
engraved billhead for A. E.
Cohen’s Soap and Candle
Manufactory, Footscray, 1850.
Mr. Cohen’s factory looks a
fit residence for a duchess.
The shipping-section couldn’t
help but be delightful, with its
lovely paintings of lovely
clippers. There is a model of
the paddlewheeler Hygeia,
which ended her career in
1931 after carrying three-
millicn trippers across Port
Phillip. But why wasn’t Cap-
tain Jorgensen’s self-made life-
boat, the Storm King, in-
eluded? Surely that was a bit
more important?
Theatre is represented by the
costume worn by Gladys Mon-
crieff in “Rio Rita” ; sport by
a Test-match stump loaned by
W. M. Woodfull; music by a
set of Swiss staff-bells used by
Percy Grainger in one of his
compositions ; Melba by a
scent-bottle and a cigarette-
case ; art by William Dobell's
fine portrait of Professor
Giblin and pictures by
Streeton, Longstaff and Roberts
(Max Meldrum being con-
spicuously absent); James
Cassius Williamson by the last
Christmas-card he sent to
Bland Holt ; and, last but not
least, eminent Victorian
families by the Boyds, the
Lindsays and the Kellys.
There are 12 Boyds and six
or seven Lindsays, but only
two Kellys. Edward is repre-
sented by his death-mask and
the armor he made out of
ploughshares, and Kate makes
an appearance with Constable
Fitzpatrick in a celebrated pic-
ture by Sidney Nolan.
The Bulletin gets a mention
as having had a great influence
on national thought in the late
’nineties and as having pub-
lished The Illustrated History
of Botany Bay, with Phil May’s
cartoons, which publication
was considered so defamatory
that it was immediately with-
drawn.
There is a sketch of the Uni-
versity, when there were only
two buildings in it. It doesn’t
look so good now that there
are a hundred in it.
M. G. S.
Fallen Angels
The Terry Clune Galleries
(Sydney) are showing a collec-
tion of John Perceval’s ceramic
sculptures called “Angels.”
With their mottlings of reds
and greys, their twists of ropey
hair, their empty eye-sockets,
their stained chubby legs and
splayed toes, they look like
Florentine angels that have
been exposed to the ravages of
time and weather, polished,
then confronted with the 20th
century.
And they react to this rude
treatment as normal angels
probably would. They fight
and dance; stand on their
heads; bite their toes ; nurse
their children sadly ; console
themselves with their old lutes,
pipes and trumpets; and
generally express joy, pain,
anger and wonder.
It is all exuberant work,
sometimes thoughtful, some-
times weirdly tender, and
always of astonishing crafts-
manship. But Perceval's extra-
vagant imagination is seldom
tempered with the restraint
that comes from a deep and
certain understanding of sub-
ject. He tends to pile on the
technical effects, smothering his
ideas with a surface richness
that _is finally indigestible.
♦♦♦
Abstract Arabs
Of the abstract paintings by
Louise Henderson, showing at
Sydney’s Macquarie Galleries,
three from the Middle East and
one from England caught this
viewer’s eye. They were


If is possible
that YOU could
••
-V
£5OO to
£lOOO P.A.
IN TAX
through
CAPITAL GAINS
AND
TAX FREE
INVESTMENTS
♦
Outstanding opportunities
now exist. Consult . . .
D. M, CLARKE
& COMPANY
Tax Consultants
11 Randle Street, Sydney.
MA 9855
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO ALLAN BOBBIN late of Palestine,
via Eden.—TAKE NOTICE that HAZEL
IVY BOBBIN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 878 of 1959 on the grounds
of desertion for.three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse and is ask-
ing for the exercise of the Court’s dis-
cretion under S. 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899-1958 If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by the
29th day of July 1959 and obtain a
copv of the Petition without charge
from CHARLES GRIFFITHS Solicitor,
107-109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New
South Wales.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROBERT LINDSAY LAWSON late
of Harbord Road Thirroul New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that SHIRLEY
ALICE LAWSON has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1082 of 1959 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to deferid you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by the 7th August 1959
and obtain a copv of the Petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. ROBERTSON
PARKHILL ROFE & MOFFITT, Soli-
citors, 79-SI Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO KEVIN COCHRAN late of Mt.
KU-RING-GAI N. S. Wales.—TAKE
NOTICE that AILEEN MAUDE COCH-
RAN has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1376 of 1959 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 7th August 1959 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from" MESSRS. ROBERTSON
PARKHILL ROFE & MOFFITT, Soli-
citors, 79-81 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO MILTON WALKER ROSE late of
Windsor.—TAKE NOTICE that FRANK-
TYNE GRACE LOUISE ROSE has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1298 of 1959
On the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause
or excuse If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 29th day of July 1950
and obtain a, copy of the Petition with-
out charge from CHARLES GRIFFITHS
Solicitor 107-109 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney, New South Wales. — J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
“Middle East —Resting,” a
sharp impression of quilt-
patterned, folding Arabs;
“Beirut —Facade,” a swimming
contrast of solid architectural
forms and a sort of melting
tapestry in orange, blue, grey,
white and yellow ; “Inside
Shah Mosque, Isphahan,” with
its suggestion of crescents and
confectionery ; and “Cornwall
—the Sea,” with its green sea,
black boat, and two towering
white-topped, red buildings,
the white in the left-hand
building changing subtly and
smoothly to cream, giving an
effect of dazzle from the start-
ling ocean. t
Stage and Music
Constantin Silvestri
Seldom has a conductor
seemed so indifferent as Con-
stantin Silvestri did in the first
half of his single Brisbane con-
cert. His version of Respighi’s
“The Birds” certainly had some
subtleties of tone and phrasing,
but these birds stayed firmly
in the nest most of the time.
Galliera some years ago
showed what rhythmic vitality
this music can have.
When Barbirolli arrived in
Manchester to conduct the
Halle Orchestra he refused to
spend his time accompanying
piano-concertos. Silvestri may
have felt the same way, be-
cause, after the brief Respighi,
he had to retire behind a piano-
lid to accompany Beethoven’s
Second Concerto. This is not
to detract from Igor Hmelnit-
sky’s pianism so much as to
explain why nothing excep-
tional came from a conductor
whose reputation suggested that
he gives off musical electricity
like a leaky battery. The con-
certo was neat and efficient, but
did nothing to disturb the
casual atmosphere of the con-
cert.
Perhaps Silvestri needs a big
orchestra to raise his musical
temperature. In the second
half he explored the vaster
territory of Brahms's First
Symphony, and then we had
something like the Silvestri of
fame. Not many symphonies
test orchestral string-depart-
ments so severely as this one.
Time and again they are called
on to give their fullest in tone
and to fall on every bar with
the bow to draw out the
richest possible sonority. For
an orchestra with a smallish
string band, this can be a cruel
test, and here Silvestri offset
some roughness of tone by his
shaping of the work as a whole.
He took the first movement
very fast indeed. Tympani
hammering away beneath the
great upward surge of strings
in the opening measures set
the pace and the atmosphere
for a performance cast in the
epic mould. There was some
warm clarinet-playing in the
slow movement, and the fine
tone of George White’s violin
brought real loveliness to its
closing bars.
The finale has one of the
great tunes of music, the one
celebrated by Priestley’s Mr.
Smeeth in Angel Pavement.
Silvestri took it most unsenti-
mentally—a small pity, since
the gain was in the sweep of
the whole movement. What-
ever his reputed eccentricities,
this conductor can see the end
in the beginning of a long,
orchestral piece, and the total
impression of unflagging
drama made-up for lack of
polish in the delectable byways
of Brahms.
The final bars came out in
a big flood of tone, and the
great chorale tune was
thundered out in strict time,
Toscanini fashion. This Silves-
tri made the earlier one look
tired and ineffective.
D. J. M.
* * ❖
Souzay in Brisbane
Sometimes it is hard to see
why the A.B.C. invites singers
to make return-visits to Aus-
tralia. With Gerard Souzay,
the situation is quite the oppo-
site, for the present taste we
are getting of his singing
sharpens the appetite for more.
In his Brisbane recital pro-
gramme there were three
groups of German songs, and
in each of these one song
lingered beyond the excellence
of the others. Schubert’s “The
Youth and Death” was sung
with an effortlessness
suited the languor of the boy.
slipping away into the arms of
death. Souzay, however, sus-
tained the emotion of the'song
to the point of tension. He
likewise raised the emotional
temperature of Brahms’s “Con-
stancy” and the popular
“Dedication” by Strauss, both
songs of similar mood. In
other places a slight sophistica-
tion got between singer and
song.
The high point of the con-
cert was a group of Faure
songs. Dull and tedious in the
hands of any but the finest
singers, Faure’s songs leave
much to the interpreter, who
on this occasion knew just
what to supply.
The ebb and flow of passion
in these songs made a good
case for more of the same kind
of thing in the programme.
After all, every singer who
comes can do Schubert and
Brahms, if not always so well.
Only Danco and Vallin were
comparable in French songs.
But if Souzay did not sing
any of the old French songs
and the other immediately
tuneful ones he has recorded,
he came back in a final vir-
tuoso display of languages and
much arching of his highly
expressive eyebrows. First
there was a witty imitation of
an Irish accent in “The Stutter-
ing Lovers”; then, after some-
thing from Brazil and more
from Spain, he sang the un-
accompanied spiritual “Were
You There?” with the near-
perfect intonations of a
Robeson or a Warfield. It was
not far, indeed, from the per-
fection of the famous recording
by Roland Hayes, which is
about as far as praise can go.
D. J. M.
Schubertiad
New Zealand pianist Tessa
Birnie was recitalist at the
Schubert Society’s concert in
Sydney. She caught much of
the fervent emotion which
surges through the “farewell”
motif of the opening adagio
and allegro of Beethoven’s E
Flat Major Sonata, Op. 81a,
and managed, in the handful
of notes which bridge the
second and third movements,
to convey awakening hope
after a movement of black
despair. Phrasing was .less
smooth than it might have
been in the reflective passage
of the final section, but there
could be no doubting the sheer
outburst of joy to which this
led.
Schubert’s miniature Sonata


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO ATHOL LEO ISRIEN. — TAKE
NOTICE that NETA MAY BRIEN has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3448 of
1958 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by the 31st July 1959
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. MARSH
HARVEY & CROPPER, Solicitors, 28
Martin Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO ANNA WYNNIK late of Poland. —-
TAKE NOTICE that .JAN WYNNIK has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 653 of
1959 on the grounds of desertion for
three .years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Mint Building Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by the 29th day
of July 1959 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from CHARLES
GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 107-109 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
-—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO JOHN LAURENCE COLLINS late of
Bolton Point. —TAKE NOTICE that
NORMA GWEN COLLINS has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 540 of 1959
on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause
or excuse • If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney" by the 29th day of July 1959
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from CHARLES GRIFFITHS
Solicitor, 107-109 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney, New South Wale s. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO RALPH GLENDENNING JOHN
BRADLEY address unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that SHIRLEY BRADLEY lias
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 51 of
1959 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three (3)
years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Mint Building Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by the 27th day of
July 1959 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MAURICE
J. McGRATH, Solicitor, of 56 Hunter
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
in A Major, replete with engag-
ing melodies and, in the second
allegro, lilting rhythms, was
given an attractive reading in
which well-judged lightness of
touch gave point to the work’s
essential tenderness and grace.
The third sonata was the
posthumous C Minor, a work
of extraordinary dramatic
power, one of the few Schubert
sonatas comparable with the
titanic ones of Beethoven.
Miss Birnie opened it with
something less than the
required urgency, angularity
and defiance, and the remote
adagio had some bars of jerki-
ness ; but the minuet, with'its
strange pauses, was neatly con-
trived, and the finale was a
striking flow of exuberant
rhythm.
Films
“Sky Without Stars"
A moving comment on the
division of Germany and its
tragic effect on the lives of
those unlucky enough to have
human ties in both zones. With
a passionate but sober realism
it tells of a young mother torn
between loyalty to her sick
parents in the East Zone and
longing for her son, whom she
has been forced to leave with
his dead father’s prosperous
parents in the West. Her
efforts to unite her family, com-
plicated by her love for a West
border-guard who helps her in
her secret crossings of the
frontier, end in ironic tragedy.
The camera looks sympatheti-
cally at everyday life on both
sides of the line, and nowhere
is explicit propaganda allowed
to weaken the deep humanity
of the story. The actors, none
of whom is well-known to
Australian filmgoers, are, with-
out exception, impressive in
their understanding of every
emotional demand of the
action.
G.U. Theatres, Sydney.
♦jf
“Human Cargo"
The business of procuring
girls for prostitution by promis-
ing them a dancing-career goes
under the microscope in this
French film, with Raymond
Pellegrin as a beginner-agent
who, falling in love with his
intended victim, tries to save
her and pays the penalty for
crossing the gang that employs
him. As an. expose of white-
slavers’ methods it holds a cer-
tain interest; for the rest, it is
merely routine gangster stuff.
At Sydney Lyric and Vogue.
“The Buccaneer"
An overblown and melo-
dramatic account of the part
allegedly played by the pirate
Jean Lafitte in helping General
Jackson save New Orleans)
from the British attack in the
war of 1812. “Credited’’ to
the late Cecil B. De Mille —-
though he had no hand in
either the production or direc-
tion —it seems to have been
especially devised to display
Yul Brynner as a yooman
pirate-chief. That sensitive
actress Claire Bloom is shock-
ingly miscast as a ranting
pirate’s > maid -of - all - work,
madly jealous of Lafitte’s love
for the daughter of the Gover-
nor of Louisiana. There are
two compensations: a strong
portrayal of Andrew Jackson
by Charlton Heston, and a
convincing battle-scene.
At Sydney Prince Edward.
Faith in the
Future
It requires little in prophetic vision to see
that the development of Australia is going to call
for the more intense use of modern machinery.
Highways and feeder roads will be built—they
must be. Massive construction will be undertaken.
Plans will be carried through for the larger saving
of water and for the control of its abundance
in floods.
And powering this will be the strong, engined
implements that can shift the rock, clear the bush,
grade the ground, pile the catchment.
Machines are already increasing our
work-power in numberless ways; helping, indeed,
to lengthen and widen our whole economic path.
The big pilot operation in South Australia
and western Victoria, where desert country was
transformed into fine productive sheep land, was
done almost entirely by machines working over
the soil to which trace elements had been added.
The new appraisal of Australia’s soil-wealth
resulting from this kind of scientific research has
produced a special type of machinery for the
fostering of pastures.
It is not in our stock and farm industries
alone that mechanisation will be playing its
increasing part. In construction and transport, in
factories and offices, the processes must necessarily
be towards the use of more machinery for lightening
work, raising output, reducing costs.
In the short view it may be argued that
mechanisation replaces human labour; that one
big bulldozer, for instance, can do the work of
hundreds of men. Yes, but it is a positive
replacement. And in a highly competitive world
it is essential to survival and progress.
A country’s prosperity derives from the volume
and efficiency of its production. From that stems
the over-all employment it can provide, the
' standards of living it can maintain.
So, longer reaches into the mechanised field
await us. We can advance to it with confidence,
welcoming machines as creative agents in the
hands of men; in Australia’s case, men with an
under-peopled and richly-resourced continent on
which to use them.
H. Hastings Deening


Telegraphic and Cable address: “Brownliills.”
Telephone: BIV 1465 (3 lines).
A. H. BROWMHSLL & CO.
(A. H. Brownhill, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
27 O’Connell Street - -- -- -- -- - Sydney
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
lIS Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW I77I—BTF 808 S
The WILD CAT COLUMN
General Industries, Ltd.
TX/TrH the wholly-owned Sovereign
Appliances Pty., beginning to pull
its weight, at last, the big General
Industries group was able to make encour-
aging headway last term. Net profit
actually fell by more than 9 p.c., but
figures—financial as well as feminine —
can sometimes prove misleading, and, in
General Industries’ case, a healthy
improvement in trading results was offset
in the final accounts by the absence of a
div. from Admiral of Australia Pty.
Admiral, in which G.I. has a 50 p.c.
(£100,000) share-interest, retained the
whole of its earnings, last term, in order to
finance further expansion of its successful
IV, radio and domestic-appliance
business.
The current term should see further
progress, with the possibility of a record
result, but, when considering the extent
of the G.I. group recovery since the
sudden loss of the 1957 term, it should
be remembered (as it has been, on the
whole, by the sharemarket) that earlier
profits were won with a much smaller
share-capital. Even assuming that Admiral
had come good last term with an
unchanged £150,000 div. the group’s
earning-rate on ord. capital would have
been barely 11 p.c.
The manufacture of domestic and com-
mercial stoves (gas, electric and fuel),
c.i.p.e. baths, sinks and basins, coppers,
bath-heaters and other items of domestic
metalware, builders’ hardware, etc., has
been G.l.’s prime interest since the present
parent co. was formed in 1927 to merge
the activities of K.F.B. Foundry, Ltd.,
with those of Metters, Ltd. Factories are
located in N.S.W., Victoria, South Aust.
and W.A., Metters K.F.B. Pty. operating
the Victorian plant.
In 1955 a big expansion programme
took the group into the TV, radio and
refrigeration fields through the newly-
purchased Sovereign Appliances (then
known as Rotafrig Pty.) and the half-
interest in Admiral, the highly-profitable
Grimwood Electrical Products Pty., a
Sydney-based manufacturer of electric
heating-elements, being added to the G.I.
family in the same year. Ord. and pref.
shareholders were offered two new ords.
at par for every three shares held to
finance these developments and the
extension of established subsidiary-
interests.
However, while Sovereign Appliances
was running-up big losses (£212,315 in
1957) in its attempts to break into the
well-supplied refrigerator market, Metters’
Sydney branch was seriously troubled by
a decline in homebuilding and turnover,
as well 'as by rising costs and industrial
disputes.
A “substantial” loss by this branch in
1957 practically swamped the profits won
by Metters in South Aust. and W.A., and,
together with the Sovereign deficit, gave
the group its first loss for 22 years.
Sovereign more than halved its loss in the
1958 term, and, although Metters again
lost heavily in Sydney, other offshoots
reported improved earnings which, with
the maiden (£150,000) div. from Admiral,
produced a group-profit of £337,345.
In addition to the Sovereign profit and
a further improvement in the earnings of
Metters K.F.8., a pleasing feature of last
term’s results was a considerable reduc-
tion in loss incurred in Sydney by Metters;
although the total earnings of this
subsidiary were affected by a weaker
demand in other States.
After providing £263,219 (down
£18,848) for depreciation, the group’s pre-
tax profit from trading, including that of
the recently-acquired Ferro Precision Pty.,
jumped by £138,655 to £459,205, failing
by only £11,345 to reach the figure claimed
in the previous year for trading-profit
and div.-income combined, deduction of
the tax-provision (up £20,395 at £153,600)
giving a net profit of £305,605:
General Industries and Subsidiaries.
Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 7 p.c. t —Ord.— N senes, serves. '
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
Tax Overprovided, £BO,OOO . . . . 655,830
Unexplained reduction, £18,913 . . 636,917
1954.-340,624 20,851 10 = 188,271 131,502 768,419
Unexplained reduction. £4397 .. 764.022
1955.. 074 33.278 10 = 188,270 185,526 949.548
Unexplained reduction, £4030 .. 945.518
1956.. 46,620 10 = 232,582 26,728 972,246
To staff fund, £91,617 .. .. 880,629
Loss.
1957.. 491 46,620 4-= 144,740 653,778
Stock-reserve disclosed, £635,000 .. 1,288,778
Stocks written-down, £lOO,OOO- .. 1,188,778
* Tax overprovided, £2339 .. ... 1,191,117
Profit.
1958.. 345 46,620 4 = 144,740 145,985 1,337.102
Note-issue expenses,. £49,194 .. 1,287,908
Less goodwill on acquisition of sub-
sidiary, £47,096 1,240,812
Tax ovetprovided, £2200 .. .. 1,243,012
1959.. 305.605 46,620 4 = 149,060 109,925 1,352,937
Lighter by £31,740 than the 1958
showing, the profit represented 6.9 p.c.
on ord. capital, after covering the pref.
div., as against a shade over 8 p.c. in
the preceding term, the ord. div.-rate,
slashed to 4 p.c. in 1957 after 14 years
at 10 p.c., being held at the lower level.
Ord. scrip to a par value of £lOB,OOO
was exchanged, last September, for the
share-capital of Ferro Precision, a manu-
facturer of cast-iron pipes and fittings,
the issue lifting G.l.’s paid capital to
£4,392,503, of which £666,000 carries a
cumulative 7 p.c. The manufacturing
activities of the new subsidiary have
now been extended from N.S.W. to Vic-
toria and South Aust. by the use of
foundries already operated by other
members of the group.
Working-capital was strengthened last
term and funds provided for the redemp-
tion of £500,000 of 6 p.c. note-money
by a £1,000,000 issue of seven-year 8
p.c. notes, the net proceeds contributing
to a £374,446 increase (to £2,528,721)
in the surplus of current assets over
current liabilities and provisions. Repre-
senting 37 p.c. of all assets, stocks are
subject to a £535,000 reserve, deducted
in the published accounts from the
stock-figure but included, in the follow-
ing table, with reserves:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1957. 1958. 1959.
Pref £666,000 £666,000 £666,000
Ord 3,618.493 3,618,503 3,726,503
Reserves .. .. 653,778 1,337,102 1,352,937
Mortgage .. - 42,809
Overdraft.. .. 1. 1,269,468 924,987
Registered notes. . 500.000 500,000 1,000,000
Creditors . . .. 622,830 550.990 629,961
Tax provision .. 447,220 259,643 301,840
Staff fund .. 100,000 100,000 101,507
Prov., warranty .. ' 8,500
Final divs. ‘.. 23,310 168,050 172,370
Suspense .. .. 39,590
£7,761,516 £8,469,756 £8,967,004
Freeholds .. 1,687,010 1,685,597 1,748,260
Plant . . . . 2,007,091 2,007,103 2,123,676
Shares other cos,
etc 121,630 124,630 128,038
Loan assoc, co. .. 65,000 150,000 205,000
Stocks .. .. 2,772,632* 3,171,211 3,344,453
Debtors, etc. . . 1,088,587 1,325,677 1,413,335
Cash .. .. 14,108 2,947 4,242
Suspense .. .. 2,458 2,591 '
£7,761,516 £8,469,756 £8,967,004
* After deducting stock-reserve.
The improved trading results brought
only relatively small increases in stocks
and book-debts, while depreciation
limited the addition to conservatively-
valued fixed assets to £179,236, all of
these movements being influenced, pre-
sumably, by the Ferro Precision take-
over. A further £55,000 was advanced
to Admiral, bringing total advances to
that co. up to £205,000.
With Sovereign out of the red and
making continued progress in the
current term, Metters’ Sydney plant
remains as the weakest link in the chain
—a weakness which the board is attack-
ing, with some success, apparently, by
the reorganisation of production methods
and the range of products. These
changes, along with the proposed re-
equipment of the foundry and the
brisker rate of homebuilding reported
in recent months, should show up in
the next accounts.
Supported by net tangibles of 275. 3d.
G.l.’s £1 ords. sold last week at 215.,
the yield, £3 16s. 2d. p.c. from a 4 p.c.
div., rising by approximately 19s. Id.
p.c. for each 1 p.c. added to the div.-rate.


REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
ASSETS EXCEED £60,000,000 PAID UP CAPITAL £10,000,000
Secu '“V.
Long Term
Short Term
I.A.C. guarantees fixed quarterly income, free of exchange.
For full details see Prospectus ; your copy available from all Members of Stock
Exchanges, the 703 branches of the A.N.Z. Bank Limited and I.A.C. Branches.
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
(Established 29 Years)
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
HOBART • CANBERRA
and at PROVINCIAL CENTRES
Underwriting
Brokers:
lAN POTTER &
MELBOURNE,
CANBERRA &
SYDNEY
DII4N
W. R. Carpenter and Co., Ltd.
HThe short-term investment possibilities
of the W. R. Carpenter empire don’t
appear to have been exhausted by the one-
for-one bonus-issue involved in the form-
ation of W. R. Carpenter Holdings, Ltd.,
late in 1957. Despite the doubling of
share-capital, the group came up last term
with an earning-rate close to the better-
than-20 p.c. average shown on the old
parent co’s capital in the four preceding
years, without resorting to anything like a
full consolidation of subsidiary earnings.
The Ilf p.c. div. claimed only 57 p.c. of
the admitted group profit.
The foundations of the Carpenter organ-
isation were laid in 1914 with the forma-
tion of the principal subsidiary, and
erstwhile parent, W. R. Carpenter and
Co., Ltd., as a copra-merchant, financier
and general island-trader, activities which
spread from New Guinea to Fiji and
other south-Pacific islands and led the co.
into island-shipping and a variety of
merchandising and agency interests.
The scrip was first offered to the public
in 1923, and by the time progress was
checked by the 1939-45 war, steady and
profitable expansion had secured for the
group a stake in most aspects of the island
economies, widened and diversified Aus-
tralian interests, brought about the estab-
lishment of branches in U.K. and Canada,
and involved, among other things, the
formation of an overseas (U.K.-Pacific)
shipping-line, an inter-island air-service
(Mandated Airlines, Ltd.,) and the group’s
insurance offshoot, Southern Pacific
Insurance Co., Ltd.
Last asked for fresh capital in 1938,
shareholders have been well rewarded
over the last decade, the return of 10s.
in the £ of paid capital in 1949 being
followed by a one-for-one bonus-issue in
1951, with a six-year run of 15 p.c. divs.
preceding the two-for-one exchange on
formation of W. R. Carpenter Holdings.
All in ords., paid capital now totals
£2,611,517.
Fijian ' trade and plantation-owner
Morris Hedstrom, Ltd., was brought into
the group late in 1955, and a 40 p.c.
interest acquired in the Sydney-based
Donson Holdings, Ltd. (merchant, flour-
millers, etc.), last November. The sizeable
swag of outside investments includes a
large holding in Consolidated Neon, Ltd.,
and 960,000 ss. ords in Commercial and
General Acceptance, Ltd., the latter hold-
ing arising from the sale to C.A.G.A. of
the hire-purchase subsidiary Terms and
Credits Pty. (Southern Pacific Insurance
still retains a share-interest in Associated
Securities, Ltd., an h.-p. financier in which
the big Pearl Assurance Co. of London
recently bought a substantial sharehold-
ing.) In 1957 the group joined with Carl-
ton and United Breweries to construct and
operate a brewery at Suva.
Traditionally modest in its claims to
financial strength and earnings, the group
threw a little more light on the solid finan-
cial set-up last year when, for the first
time, it consolidated the figures of some of
its subsidiaries with those of the parent co.
However,, while the partial consolidation
and adjustments relating to the forma-
tion of W. R. Carpenter Holdings
uncovered an additional £3.298,626 of
reserves, the book-value of subsidiary
interests not consolidated actually
increased by £46,016 to £2,569,741, at
which figure it was only £40,901 less than
the total figure for shares in subsidiaries
shown in the parent co’s balance-sheet:
\v. r. carpenter holdings, ltd.
5-3*.
Minority inter,.. - - 205,075
Creditors, etc. .. 54,866 18,053 1.516,251
owing to subside imW 663,602 345,531
Tax provision.. 7,074 8,087
* * iTsoo i&«£
” ——
Freeholds £3,195,197 £3, 7is,ii3 £i0, 079,308
Plant, etc. 13,339 16,103 ’e95!i66
® t !’ c !j cos 9 9 ? 9 °’- 9 i ,
Siurcs sulisids... 2,442,814 2,023,/2o 2,569,/41
stock .. .. e.oeo 3,003 1,243,363
Book-debts .. 30, 483 26,528 872,058
caVhfbonds,’"efc! 2,07^708
fTiirfir £ '~ aB u 9 ~
*w. r. carpenter and Co.,'Ltd’.', only. ’‘ ”
tw. R. Carpenter Holdings, Ltd., and some (un-
specified) subsidiaries,
Apart from according official recognition
to a healthy pile of assets and reserves —
the existence of which had long been
assumed by investors—the consolidated
balance-sheet doesn’t give too much away,
the obvious scope for further gains and
the large holding of cash, etc. (£2,073,708),
being among the more interesting features.
The consolidated statement of profit


Telegraphic & Cable Address
“Rosdale” Sydney.
R. H. ALLEN
P. R. LEVY
PATRICK & COMPANY
M. R. L. DOWLING
A. P. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911.
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
F.
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hudsonian” Brisbane
J. B. & FRANK CHARLTON
B. Charlton, J. F. Charlton, J. M. Fay, C.A.B. Marjason, J. L. Russell
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange.)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Third Floor, City Mutual Building, 309 Queen St., Brisbane
Telephone: 2 2775, 2 4349 G.F.O. Box No. 61A
and loss, also restricted to a limited
number of subsidiaries, is of similar tenor,
the directors’ report reading in part, like
an extract from the memorandum and
articles:
The profits earned by the organisation,
which includes subsidiaries, were derived in
Australia, Fiji Islands, New Guinea and
elsewhere from the sale of produce
produced on the company’s own estates,
trading, the sale of manufactured goods,
from services, insurance, investments and
shipping.
The board then goes on to lump together
trading profits, investment income and
divs. from subsidiaries not consolidated
and deducts an unspecified something for
taxation, £lOO,OOO for tonnage-replace-
ment and £184,321 for depreciation, to
show a net profit equal to 19.8 p.c. on
share-capital at £517,907: —-
W. R. Carpenter and Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. , ——Dividends >, serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1952. .139,013 15 p.e. = 127,500 11,513 574,137
.1953. .14.1,345 .15 „ ~ 127,500 13,845 587,982
1954. .146,049 15 „ ~127,500 18,549 606,531
Share premiums, £73,499 .. .. 680,030
From inner reserves £644,544 .. 1,324,574
Unexplained addition, £88,481 . . 1,413,055
1955. .193,889 15 p.e. = 127,500 66,359 1,479,444
Added investment reserve, £4510 . . 1,483,954
1956. .242,019 15 p.c. = 178,724 63,295 1,547,249
Added investment reserve, £509 . . 1,547,758
1957. .273,191 15 p.c. = 195,798 77,393 1,625,151
W. R. Carpenter Holdinus and Certain
Subsidiaries.
Added on consolidation, etc.,
£3,298,626 4,923,777
Profits atu iuutable to prior years,
Sept.
£79,725 .. 5,003,502
1958. .517,907 Hi p.c. = 293,796 224,111 5-,227,613
On its own account, the holding co.
reckoned net earnings at £326,499, or
£53,308 more than the amount claimed
by the previous parent in 1957.
Although world sugar prices, applying
to a proportion of the Fijian sugar out-
turn, have fallen heavily over the past
year, a stronger market for copra should
help to sustain trading operations, in the
islands served by the group, for the
balance of the current term, the great
diversification of both Australian and
overseas interests minimising the effect
on earnings of variations in sectional
trading conditions.
Activities of subsidiary and associated
cos. have been carried on “to the same
pattern as in previous years,” according
to an interim report issued last March,
and, should reassurance be needed,
adequate profits are said to be available
to cover the “usual” divs. to the holding
co. An interim div. at the rate of
p.c. p.a. went out last month.
Anticipating a more generous distribu-
tion before too long, the sharemarket
prices the ss. stock-units at 18s. 3d. (3s.
above the “low” of early March), to
return £3 Is. Bd. p.c. on the 11| p.c. scale,
and give an earnings-yield on last term’s
figures of 5.4 p.c. For what it’s worth,
book-values at September 30 last showed
a net tangible cover of 15s. for each ss.
ord.
Australia Silknit, Ltd.
HThe hazards inherent in anticipating
fashion-trends, in both styles and
fabrics, and in relying on normal weather-
patterns make the textiles game a tricky
one, even at the best of times, a fact
which the sharemarket tends to take into
account when valuing textile scrip.
Dependent, partly, on a degree of pro-
tection against imported products, the
local textile-manufacturer must also meet
the competition engendered by surplus
production-capacity, be prepared to scrap
expensive plant, made obsolete by tech-
nical advances, and cope with the direct
and indirect effects of wide fluctuations
in the cost of wool and other raw
materials.
As a manufacturer of rayon lingerie,
nightwear, etc., Australia Silknit, Ltd.,
has had its full share of these problems,
ord. shareholders going empty-handed
throughout the 10 years ended in 1947.
However, despite the sharp reverse
suffered in tne 1956 term, tne co. has
enjoyed considerably more success over
the last oecade.
Sponsored by Silknit, Ltd., of Canada,
Australia Silknit was formed in 1927 to
produce women’s and children’s under-
wear and nightwear, rayon piece-goods,
etc., lines wmch still make-up much of
the output from the co.’s mills and
factories in Sydney and in the N.S.W.
country centres of Young, Swansea and
Wollongong. Branches in alt capital cities
and Newcastle handle the distrioution of
the various products. Having responded
to post-war demands, earnings reached
their peak in the 1953 and 1954 terms,
the earning-rate on the £121,000 ord.
capital exceeding 55 p.c. in each of those
years.
Since then, however, increased spend-
ing on domestic-appliances, TV-receivers,
motor-vehicles and other consumer-
durables—encouraged by the expansion
of hire-purchase facilities—has contri-
buted to a reduction in the outlay on
clothing, Australia Silknit, along with
other textile concerns, suffering from this
switch in spending-habits. At the same
time consumer preferences tended to
favor cotton and synthetics other than
rayon, and, with the necessary additions
to the range of fabrics used in produc-
tion involving shorter production-runs
and higher operating-costs, a 70 p.c. fall
in earnings in the 1955 term was followed
by a loss of £23,912 in 1956.
Back on a profit-winning basis in the
1957 term, the co. made further progress
last year, despite a slip in turnover
(unstated), gross profit rising by £6618 to
£39,094, after allowing £14,119 (down
£650) for depreciation. A higher tax-
provision (up £Bl4O at £14,691) prevented
the improvement from showing-up in the
net profit, the previous year’s tax-provi-
sion allowing for the Has incurred in
1956:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends To Re- Re-
Dee. Profit. Pref. ( Ord. N serves. serves.
31, 7 p.c.
£ £ p.c. £ £ .£
From tax stock provisions, £12,200.. 147,014
Written-off intangibles, £ll4 .. 147,128
1950.. 44,246 4200 15 = 18,150 21,896 169,024
1951.. 42,706 4200 15 = 18,150 £0,356 189,380
Exchange refunds, £2373 1. .. 191,753
1952.. 56,344 4200 15= 18,150 33,994 225,747
Exchange refunds, £lB2l .. .. 227,568
1953.. 72,765 4200 47,390 274,'95,8
iy54.. 72,404 4200 = 21,175 47,029 321,987
1955. . 20,600 4200 121 = 15,125 1,275 323,262
Tax overprovided, £1940 .. .. 325,202
boas.
1956.. 23,912 4200 10 = 12,100 284,990
Pro jit.
1957.. 25,925 4200 10 = 12,100 9,625 294,615
i Tax overprovided, £l3OO .. .. 295,915
1958.. 24,403 4200 10 = 12,350 7,853 303,768
Down £1522 at £24,403, the earnings
covered the usual 7 p.c. div. on the
£60,000 pref. capital and 16.7 p.c. on
equity capital, compared with 17.9 p.c.
in the preceding term, a steady 10 p.c.
div.-rate leaving the average div.-rate for
the last 10 years at 13| p.c.
Careful to avoid an accumulation of
stocks, the co. has kept output in line
with the declining turnover, a big
(£199,272) reduction in inventories over
the last two terms leaving tinances in a
sound, but excessively liquid form. At
December 31 last, cash, etc. (up £91,974),
included £lBO,OOO in short-term deben-
tures and exceeded total outside liabilities
and provisions by £119,078:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1955. 1956. 1957. 1958.
Pref. .. £60,000 £60,000 £60,000 £60,900
OrJ. . . 121,000 121,000 121,000 121,000
Reserves . . 323,262 284,990 294,615 303,768
Creditors . . 82,723 88,414 76,405 80,585
Staff funds .. 12,277 12,186 5,680 634
Tax provision 77,812 33,933 8,709 21,775
Dividends . . 11,175 8,100 8,150 8,400
£688,249 £608,673 £574,559 £596,162
Land, buildings,
plant . . 92,003 85,042 75,558 76,864
Stock .. 437,505 403,113 252,263 203,841
Debtors .. 81,2/9 85,421 108,HO 84,9e5
Cash, etc. .. 77,462 35,097 138,498 230,472
£688,249 £608,673 £574,559 £596,162
Fixed assets are in the accounts at 1936
valuation or cost, less depreciation.
Earlier this year Australia Silknit
acquired the share-capital of A.R.A.M.
Industries Pty., a Sydney-based manu-
facturer and distributor of lingerie and
similar lines for the juvenile and teenage
section of the trade. The vendor share-
holders collected 20,000 ss. ords. as a
result of the deal, the new scrip, which
appears to have participated in the final
div., taking Australia Silknit’s ord. capital
to £126,000.
• Difficult trading conditions have con-
tinued into the current term, but there
are indications of a possible improve-
ment in demand over the latter half of
the year, and, with the co. able to show
a satisfactory earning-rate under exist-
ing conditions and well - equipped,
financially and technically, to take advan-
tage of opportunities for increasing turn-
over, the sharemarket prices the ss. ords.
at Bs. 9d. (7s. a year ago), to return


Be sure
you'U have
MONEY
WHEN YO
NEED IT
ASSURE adequately with the
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Inc. in Qld., 1895)
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
CALL
A full 6% per annum interest with security
makes this on-call cash deposit a wise
investment!
HATES FOR TERM DEPOSITS
10% PER ANNUM .. .. 5 YEARS
9%
8%
7i%
7°/o
We certify that there was £l9B of consolidated tangible
assets to cover each £lOO of consolidated liabilities excluding
deposits, at 31st December, 1958. HENSON, GATES AND CO.,
PTTRT TP ArrOTTNTANT<3
SECURED BY THE AUSTRALIA-WIDE ASSETS OF CARAPARK
For full particulars, see your broker, 'phone LM 0391 or send
in this coupon to the Secretary.
& GENERAL FINANCE LTD.
681 Parramatta Road, Leichhardt, N.S.W.
Please send me a brochure and copies of balance
sheet.
NAME '
ADDRESS
B. 27/5
£5 14s. 3d. p.c. from a 10 p.c.
div. In terms of assets the
scrip is going cheaply, book-
values at December 31 last
giving each ord. issued at that
date a net tangible cover of
17s. 7d.
Western Titanium, N.L.
"DORCED to restrict produc-
tion by the weakness of
the ilmenite market, Western
Titanium, N.L., put 148,300
tons (down 139,700 tons) of
crude sands through the treat-
ment plant last term for
54,560 tons (down 34,400 tons)
of heavy minerals.
Ilmenite production fell by
approximately 22,000 tons to
48,301 tons, 3271 tons of
zircon, monazite, rutile and
leucoxene coming from the
secondary plant, brought into
operation at the Capel (W.A.)
workings in March 1958.
The lower output and weaker
prices took much of the profit
out of ilmenite sales, revenue
falling by £45,070 to £295,184,
of which the secondary
minerals accounted for £39,060.
Net profit fell by £29,196 to
£53,283, after an unchanged
£30,000 for depreciation, to
equal 5.9 p.c. on the £890,000
share-capital. No div. was paid.
At January 31 last, current
assets (including stocks £69,602)
totalled £147,884, exceeding
current liabilities by 138,298
and all liabilities by £111,548.
There are indications of a
slight improvement in demand
for ilmenite, from which the co.
could benefit, but prices as well
as demand will need to pick
up to ensure a reasonable rate
of profit-winning. The ss. ords.
sold recently at 4s. 3d.
Gas-reservoir Controls
TFroin li. Owen]
C<everal correspondents have
written asking for the
definition of the terms
“hydraulic” and “volumetric,”
which I used in “Camden 7
Gas-flow” (B. 15/4/’59), with
reference to the factors con-
trolling the production of gas
from reservoirs pierced by a
borehole.
To begin with, the major
factor affecting production in
both oil- and gas-wells is the
pressure of the gas-cap in the
reservoir. This pressure is
determined by various factors
and combinations of factors.
With hydraulic control, the
pressure in an undisturbed
reservoir is due to the head of
water in the aquifer (which is
also the reservoir for the oil
and/or gas) at the point at
which it is in contact with the
oil and/or gas. It varies from
“pool” to “pool,” but approxi-
mates to a half-pound per foot
of the vertical distance from
the aquifer intake to the reser-
voir. It is this pressure, of
course, which activates artesian
bores, and it is known as the
“hydrostatic” pressure.
In a reservoir pierced by a
producing well, dynamic condi-
tions replace static conditions,
and the bottom-hole pressure
is less than the hydrostatic
pressure by an amount which
is a function of the resistance
to flow of the water in the
aquifer which, itself, is depend-
ent on the area of cross-section
of the aquifer and its permea-
bility.
In the case of volumetric
control, the pool is isolated and
depends for production on the
pressure, of the gas within the
lenticular mass which houses
the oil and gas.
The question as to whether
a pool is under hydraulic or
volumetric control is of con-
siderable economic importance.
Hydraulic control is recognised
by the fact that the bottom-
hole pressure remains sensibly
constant under natural (that is,
unaided) production, while
with volumetric control the
suffers a continuous
decline while production
continues.
However, in common with
all generalisations in petroleum-
physics, these definitions suffer
from over - simplification.
There are many cases where
the control is neither solely
hydraulic nor volumetric. For
example, a well may start its
productive life under hydraulic
control, but, if the gas or oil
is drawn off at a rate in excess
of that of the flow of the water
towards the well-bottom, the
volumetric factor becomes
increasingly important and
may eventually predominate.
In any case, overproduction is
liable to cause coning of the
bottom-water and ■ the con-
tamination of the oil with
brine.
The nature of the control
and the optimum rate of pro-
duction—can be determined by
an analysis of the production
data. Where hydraulic con-
trol is the sole factor, bottom-
hole pressure remains sensibly
constant —as does the produc-
tion of oil and/or gas—until
the oil/water interface reaches
the bottom of the well. With
volumetric control, a progres-
sive decline in pressure and
rate of production occurs
until either the production
drops below an economic
figure or the well goes to water.


¥
w
\
m
1
Y
THE AUSTRALIAN WOOL BUREAU
Never before have so many
Australian manufacturers
combined in an exhibition of
wonderful, versatile
WOOL
Here are some of the manufacturers who will be showing their newest
and best in the French Pavilion at the
DIAMOND JUBILEE ' ‘
SYDNEY SHEEP SHOW
MAY 27 to MAY 30
COLLINS BROS. WOOLLEN MILLS
CRESTKNIT MILLS
YERONGA KNITWEAR & BABY
GOODS PTY. LTD.
MARQUISE KNITWEAR
KATHRYN KNITWEAR
F. W. HUGHES INDUSTRIES LTD.
INGOT MILLS PTY. LTD.
LITHGOW WOOLLEN MILLS
FELT AND TEXTILES OF AUST.
LTD.
MARLBOROUGH PRODUCTIONS
PTY. LTD.
GLOBE WORSTED MILLS
YARRA FALLS LIMITED
ANTHONY SQUIRES PTY. LTD.
MICHAELS STERN-HARFORD
PTY. LTD.
STAFFORD ELLINSON PTY. LTD.
SWEDEX CLOTHING PTY. LTD.
FEDERAL WOOLLEN MILLS
AUSTRALIAN WOOLLEN MILLS
SUTEX WORSTED PTY. LTD.
WM. HOLLINS
CLASSIC WEAVING MILL
ONKAPARINGA WOOLLEN MILLS
KELSALL & KEMP
PLUS a host of new ideas in the unsusual
presentation of wool collected from the four corners of the world,
There’s a gold mine of ideas for textile and fashion designers
and manufacturers in this All Nations’ display.
TISSUS MICHELS
AUSTRAL SWISS
LACOCK & NETTLETON
H. MORELLA PTY. LTD.
HOLEPROOF (N.S.W.) PTY. LTD.
JOHN BROWN DISTRIBUTORS
KLIPPEL BROS.
THYNE BROS.
FETTER MILLS
JANTZEN (AUST.) LIMITED
DAVID JONES LIMITED
PATONS & BALDWINS (AUST.)
LTD.
LINCOLN MILLS (AUST.) LIMITED
ALEXANDRIA SPINNING MILLS
PTY. LTD.
JOHN VICARS & CO. LTD.
LEROY MANUFACTURING CO.
WHITE MANUFACTURING CO.
LTD.
THREE STAR FROCKS MFG. CO.
PTY. LTD.
SHETLAND PTY. LTD.
ABEL & LEWINNEK PTY. LTD.
FINLAW TEXTILES
I. & R. MORLEY
❖
Plan to be in Sydney between May 27 and
May 30 and schedule a full day to take in the
ideas offered at the SYDNEY SHEEP SHOW.


anssi
s s
lOOM
r * 1£Z£\
i » s'
' I • ' - '!
t *
■ ■ .. ■ >r
| ¥> : j‘ < - »j *j
. ' 5 \s> *-H
*Vi «
* •:
/ ]
/.V\
'/-
m
ia.
•?
....... J-r'i
//
SI
1 ** * i-..* * w
» ®
KM •<*
mfEAfl3 of « HAM ST1
i o»r
Jfeftw Ar'gLHLlTm.U.. SAXC* «....*. »f 8 A BV
“PORTRAITS of a prize RAM and EWE " runs the
caption beneath this historic ( and, of course, idealised )
engraving, “exhibited at Parramatta Octr 1828 before
the Agricultural Society of New South Wales
from the Electoral Saxon flocks of RABY
The engraving, which is inscribed “W. E. Riley, del.,”
is the possession of Mr. H. S. Black, of Toorak, Victoria, a
member of the legal firm of Blake and Riggall and a
descendant, on the grandmaternal side, of the Rileys, who
were the principal original importers of the Saxon sheep.
In The Bulletin’s Wool Issue for 1958, M. H. Ellis,
in his article “The Day of Saxon,” mentioned that “the
first substantial imports [of Saxons] were made by Edward
Riley and his father, Alexander Riley, though at the time
Mr. Riley was compelled to share the fame with Richard
Jones, whose importations were the most substantial of the
earliest days,” and added that in 1828 “the [newly formed]
Agricultural Society awarded the two Brisbane gold-medals
that year to Edward Riley and Jones.”
The importance of the Saxon sheep is now being
recognised, very belatedly according to some authorities, and
dimming somewhat the lustre of the Merino legend.
The mount of Mr. Black’s engraving also bears news-
paper-clippings of that era: “At the October meeting of
the society in 1827, TWO GOLD MEDALS were awarded to
Mr. Riley, the proprietor of the RABY FLOCK, for having
exhibited the FIVE BEST SAXON RAMS and FIVE BEST
SAXON EWES.”
Clippings record similar awards for the following years,
and also the award of a gold medal for “importing into the
colony the greatest number of pure Saxon sheep.”
It is interesting to compare the prizewinning sheep
depicted so carefully in this engraving with the ram (also a
Sydney Sheep Show champion) on page 37 of this Wool Issue.


A New Life for Wool?
By W. A. GUNN, C.M.G.
Chairman, Australian Wool Bureau.
'T'he 1958-59 wool-season has
r *- been contrary. We all
hoped at the beginning of the
season’s sales that we would
see better prices for our wools.
But the prices continued to
fall to the calamitous low of
42yd. a pound greasy in the
middle of January ; and nearly
34-million bales of the year’s
clip had been sold by Easter
at an average price of just over
47d. a pound greasy.
Since Easter values have
taken a sharp rise, and the
improved tone of the market
has attracted much public
attention.
However, it is as well to
place these latest events in
proper perspective. The year
1958 was not a good year for
wool, nor was it good for tex-
tile fibres generally.
There was a general nervous-
ness about the state of trade,
and the tendency was to eat
into existing stocks at all stages
of processing and manufacture,
and to buy raw materials only
to meet inescapable commit-
ments.
The fall in the price of wool
was part of this general textile
recession.
By the end of 1958 much of
the stock of raw and processed
wool which has been clogging
the pipeline had passed into
consumption, demand was
picking up, and confidence was
being restored. Against this
background, traders and manu-
facturers felt justified in again
entering the market at much
stronger levels.
Actually the lowest point of
the market was in January,
1959, just after the mid-season
break in sales ; it was, in addi-
tion, the lowest point reached
by wool prices since 1949.
If the whole Australian clip
had been sold at that level, it
would have averaged no more
than 424 d. per pound greasy.
Compare this with the pre-
vious season’s average of
62.45 d., and the average of
79.66 d. for 1956-57.
Even at the end-of-April
levels, which are some 30 per
cent, above the low point, the
clip would average only about
554 d. per pound greasy. The
market can therefore afford to
rise further, and, even so, wool
would still not be dear in rela-
tion to other commodities.
Further Rise .
The generally favorable out-
look gives hope that the rise
may, in fact, go further.
United Kingdom buying in
our markets has been keener
lately.
Continental mills have re-
sumed buying on a larger
scale.
There is a renewed interest
in wool in the United States,
Japan is still buying strongly,
W.A. Gunn, chairman of the Aus-
tralian Wool Bureau, author of the
article on this page.
and a number of other Far-
Eastern countries have begun
to buy moderate quantities of
our wool.
Local Australian mills also
are participating in the keener
demand.
Moreover, the lift in values
on the Australian auction-
market is paralleled in New
Zealand, South Africa and
London auctions, while private
sellers in Argentina and Uru-
guay are also reportedly asking
higher prices.
What of Wool?
But what of wool itself?
And what of our approach to
the use of more of this, our
staple, primary-product, in our
own living?
It is widely known and
generally admitted by the
scientists, who have for many
years been trying to imitate it,
that w ° ol 1S the superior fibre.
is superior to its competitors
m lts versatility and general
performance as well as in its
inherent qualities,
Why then, we should ask
ourselves, is it faced with such
fierce competition from so
many and varied fibres?
One of the reasons for the
abundance of com-
petitors is that the
manufacturers are still
searching for a “best-
seller” —a fibre that is
indisputably better than
wool. Until this is
found —if ever then
we can expect the rise
and decline of many
synthetic fibres.
With these com-
petitors coming and
going as they have since
the end of World War
11, there have been
large-scale promotions
to launch them on the
market. A m uch
greater percentage of
the production - costs
than usual has been
concentrated on getting
these new fibres estab-
lished.
And so we have seen
wool under a constant
barrage of high-pressure
selling year after year
in the scramble to cap-
ture the consumer-
market.
But let us have a
look at some of the
claims. How many “miracle”
fibres have assailed us over
the post-war years I would
not know, but I do re-
member some that were
“woollier than wool,” our suits
became air-conditioned, non-
iron and crease-retaining.
And many of these claims,
not at all outside credulity, in
these modern days of science
excited our interest. They
stimulated a curiosity-buying
on the part of us all.
But let us from now on
sum-up the claims for these
“miracle” fibres. Let us all
compare those claims with the
known qualities of wool ; and
let us not fail to add to wool’s
considerable natural advan-
tages the several excellent
scientific processes and chemi-
cal finishes which have been
developed over recent years to
eliminate wool’s few dis-
advantages.
Wool’s New Allies
I would like to think that
we will all shop for wools that
have been proofed against
shrinking and moths. There
are excellent processes com-
mercially available to manu-
facturers today that give these
protections to wool.
Over recent months we have
all heard of Si-Ro-Set perman-
ent pleating ; and a demand by
women, to whom more than
80 per cent, of the newspaper,
magazine and radio advertis-
ing is directed, for Si-Ro-Set
garments will speed along its
general acceptance.
Even more recently have
come to the clothing-markets
finishes for shower-proofing
and stain-proofing of wool
fabrics. Men’s lightweight suits
and top-coats are being treated
with these finishes.
These are the new-allies that
wool has in its fight Tor bigger
clothing-markets both here in
Australia and overseas. Now
the scientists are working on
the “easy care” of woollens.
We all know what a bugbear
wash-day is.
The emphasis of research is
to ease the drudgery of wash-
day as far as our woollens are
concerned; and it is hoped
that before many months we
will see drip-dry wool-fabrics
on the market.
A natural fibre, wool is the
healthiest of all because of
its absorbency, which allows
wool to soak-up a third of its
own weight before feeling wet;
because of its ability to insu-
late the body against extreme
variations in temperature. It
is the safest of all because of
its high resistance ; and it is
fashion’s most pliable servant
because of its draping qualities
and its suitability for styling in
a wide variety of weights,
weaves and textures.
This, then, is the wool story
which will be told, more force-
fully than ever before, by the
Australian Wool Bureau this
year. It is up to us as Aus-
tralians to sum-up the case
put before us and buy the best
quality and value in clothing.
I am certain that our deci-
sion will be wholeheartedly
for wool.


'■-v
m
m
t,
v
Highly-skilled technical officers
specially trained in all aspects of finance
connected with the wool industry
will gladly discuss any problems
affecting your business.
CONSULT OUR WOOL MANAGERS AT
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE
BRISBANE OR PERTH OFFICES
'////,/,
“ii %
»
P
between
the sheep
and the ship
the 'Adelaide'
operates
swiftly
in the
interests and
service of
Hank nf Airiath?
(INCORPORATED : „ ’ 1865 !N SOUTH AUSTRALIA WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
General Manager
ALAN A WEST


ft/ovfa. e*4eHtia£ /
t&e uwtfd cv&t /
sim.
[
\
%ww tamsjssk
_ point of\ieur. ...
WJnckcbmJt^
modern methods in
merchandising and
auctioneering,
give you best
returns
Consign the dip >
WINCHCOM BE, CARSON LTD.
Wool Selling Brokers
SYDNEY • NEWCASTLE • BRISBANE*
Mr STOCK AND PRODUCE SALESMEN,SIOCKAND STATION AGENTS
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
Wool Type Card. This Card
has many uses—as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered—in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed,
or in the paddock, with a
type, perhaps, outside the
main run of your experience.
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing.
A comparison study, using
the Bradford Wool Type
Card, eliminates the possi-
bility of error. Your name
and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to
“The Bulletin” will send one
on its way.
Problems of the
Stud-sheep Industry
By G. B. S. FALKINER
President, The Sheepbreeders’ Association of N.S.W,
At a time when there has
been a serious decline in
Australia’s wool income—a
decline which is still being
felt throughout the entire
economic structure of the
country —the position of the
stud-sheep industry calls for
careful consideration.
There is, unfortunately, a
tendency to take the stud-sheep
industry for granted. It is
widely assumed that all is well
with the breeders and that they
will continue to meet all
demands made upon them.
Australia has today about
2j-million registered stud-sheep
of a quality far above that of
any other woolgrowing coun-
try. Those sheep are the core
of our wool-industry.
It does not appear to be
generally realised that the stud
flocks are not there by acci-
dent. They are the result of
years of painstaking effort by
a comparatively small number
of people. Anyone who
imagines that sheepbreeding is
a simple task is completely
out of touch with reality. It
is, in fact, an undertaking
bristling with problems, par-
ticularly in present conditions.
Those engaged in the indus-
try have in the past, of course,
earned substantial rewards ;
but it must be stressed that
the rewards are far less sig-
nificant today than in years
gone by. There are avenues
for investment which would
produce a greater financial
return, and it is not surprising
that many have already for-
saken this vitally important
field to concentrate on less-
difficult and less-costly activity
which gives them greater
reward.
One cannot help wondering
what would happen to the
Australian wool - industry —
and the economic condition of
our country —if more breeders
gave up the fight! It would,
of course, be a national
calamity, particularly now that
wool prices are depressed and
when so much depends on the
maintenance of quality.
Quality and quantity become
even more important in the
face of the threat from
synthetics.
Those upon whom Australia
depends to maintain that
quality are the larger stud-
sheep breeders. In almost every
other key-industry incentives
of various kinds are given or
the industries are subsidised
or protected. The stud-sheep-
breeder has to carry on un-
aided. One would imagine
that the basic importance of
his special experience and skill
would be recognised, but the
fact is that he receives precious
little encouragement. Appar-
ently he is expected to con-
sole himself with the thought
that he is engaged on a task
of national importance. It
is a fact that most sheep-
breeders are dedicated men.
Through family association
with the industry or sheer
interest in their work, they
carry on in the face of ever-
increasing difficulties.
Let us consider a few of
these difficulties. It is, of
course, imperative that stud-
sheep should be well-grown with
a good cover of wool. This
necessitates the provision in
periods of drought of approxi-
mately three times the quan-
tity of artificial feed necessary
as an economic maintenance-
ration for flock-sheep. From
the veterinary point of view,
it is necessary to keep the
ravages of worms, blowfly and
footrot and all other diseases
at an absolute minimum.
These and other essential
requirements entail very con-
siderable expense—far greater
than that incurred with flock-
sheep.
During times of drought and
low prices some of the less-
efficient woolgrowers are
forced to sell, but production
is not normally interrupted.
It is carried on by the grower's
more efficient contemporaries.
The position is very different
in the case of the stud-sheep-
breeder. If, through high
operating costs, any of the
major studs deteriorate, or are
sold through sheer economic
necessity, it is a national
tragedy, for it can only result
in deterioration of the quality
and quantity of some portion
of the Australian wool-clip.
Australia today has the
largest number of Merino sheep
in the world, and, although
this can be attributed in some
degree to suitable climatic
conditions, it is largely due to
the steady development of the
parent-studs and satellite-studs.
Surely it is not too much to
hope, in the present critical
situation facing the wool-
industry, that the problems and
difficulties of the stud-sheep-
breeders will receive greater
consideration and that the
importance of the industry will
be more widely recognised.


m
m
wfe
m
wm
17/
(/Nylon)
Envy from
Nylon? Never!
After all, wool has so much to offer . . . it's
WONDERFUL . . .. always has been and always will be.
BUT wool PLUS a relatively- small percentage o
Nylon becomes quite astonishing in its added versatility.
Nylon weaves a touch of magic into wool . . .. makes it hard<
wearing . . . permanently pleatable, absolutely unbeatable
as an all-season fabric. For any occasion . . . there is
nothing to touch wool . . , with Nylon. See what we’re
driving at? Nylon can make fine woollens . . . finer!
You gain so much from so little.
If you want to know more about Nylon, write to
BRITISH NYLON SPINNERS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD
224 Queen Street, Melbourne—3B7 Kent Street, Sydney.
UNCONTROLLED DISEASES
By H. G. OSBORNE
Reader in Veterinary Medicine, University of Queensland Veterinary School.
Vl7hy do we have uncon-
trolled diseases—because
the cause is not known, or be-
cause there is no method of
treatment or prevention? These
are obvious reasons, and they
apply to some diseases. There
are, however, many major
diseases which are uncon-
trolled, even though their
causes are well known and
methods of control readily at
hand.
Mostly these diseases, which
should be controlled but aren't,
cause insidious losses of pro ■
duction rather than spectacular
losses from death. Often they
are so common that their
presence on a property is ac-
cepted as normal and the eco-
nomic loss they cause is
ignored even in these days of
lowered wool prices. An
example of such diseases is
hsemonehosis, or stomach-
worm disease.
Stomach-worm disease is
liable to cause serious losses
in most of the sheep-grazing
areas of N.S.W. and Queens-
land. The factors which cause
it have been known for years
and methods of control have
been worked-out. Effective
drenches are available on every
property, yet every year serious
losses occur sometimes ac-
companied by deaths and
always causing financial loss.
In the western areas specifi-
cally there are several reasons
for this.
First, in the drier years be-
fore 1950 stomach-worms were
less of a problem and graziers
generally regarded worms as
non-existent a cause of
disease on the tablelands but
not on the plains. Every year
since, many graziers have been
waiting for these “good old
days” to return.
Secondly, most properties
have inadequate facilities for
handling sheep. One set of
yards on a property is usually
not enough. If sheep have to be
mustered and driven—say, five
miles—to yards to be drenched,
this alone tends to discourage
drenching.
Thirdly, often in the wet-
season it is too wet to handle
sheep—especially if they have
to be driven miles to yards.
When the country dries-up, the
job of drenching is often
neglected.
Fourthly, there is still great
confusion about when to
drench, what drench to use and
what it will cost.
The most dangerous period
for serious stomach-worm
disease in most of north-
western N.S.W. and Queens-
land is from January until
April. Every property keeps a
rainfall-chart, usually hanging
in a conspicuous position in the
house or office, and this record,
more than anything else, should
direct the stomach-worm
control-programme. -
This year there was a
cyclone and heavy rains in
many areas during January.
All sheep in these areas should
have been drenched three weeks
after that rain. More rains
followed in February ; sheep
should have been drenched
again three weeks later, and so
on, if worms were to be con-
trolled. Concurrently with
drenching, sheep should have
(Cotinued on page 63)


$
' \
&
Wool is Australia’s biggest business and every wool
man wants to know the WHY of a business proposition.
Here’s WHY it will benefit him to send his clip to the
Jimac WOOL POOL:—
1
The Jimac service offers complete preparation
of a wool clip for sale, including, when
necessary, classing, sorting, piece picking and
re-packing.
2 The Jimac WOOL POOL saves you shed
costs —you can bale direct from the board,
cutting down shed handling, and getting your
wool away much faster.
3 Your oddments and outsorting can be pooled
and sold in large lots, accurately classed to
meet buyers’ requirements.
You can consign your wool direct to Jimac,
or have your own broker send your clip to
Jimac for pooling.
If you have your wool prepared by Jimac,
your returns are quick, and the average price
is higher.
Jimac is staffed with experienced personnel
who give your requirements and your wool
their close personal attention and interest. If
you call at Jimac s the men who handle your
wool will gladly discuss it with you.
JIM AC WOOL POOL
BRIDGLAND BROWN
PTY. LTD.
174-190 DOWLING STREET, EAST SYDNEY, and
HANNEL STREET. NEWCASTLE.


Marketing Background
WOOL POLITICS
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
An alternative to the above
heading could be
“Wool Policies”: it
would not be inappro-
priate to the weight of the
issues, and the thought given
to them by some of the coun-
try’s keenest minds, from the
days of B.A.W.R.A. and Sir
John Higgins—in the context
of wool, the two are practically
synonymous—down to the
protracted Inquiry Into Trade
in Wool lately staged in
Sydney.
But anyone who has turned
back a few pages of history in
order to learn something of the
background of what “Muster”
(the official organ of the
N.S.W. Graziers’ Association)
describes as “the most discussed
and controversial subject in the
Australian grazing industry”
may well be inclined towards
leierring to issues as “wool
politics,” with the term’s con-
notations of hustings, lobbying
and outright appeals to the
emotions.
True, as F. E. Hitchens
points out in his aptly-named
Tangled Skeins, many of the
pages are blank:
. are many valuable works
dealing with the historic and econo-
mic developments of the [wool]
industiy; excellent textbooks by
acknowledged masters on breeding
Merino sheep, and others which
describe some particular aspect or
incidents. Blit in the field in which
we are particularly interested —
marketing—there has been no
attempt over a lengthy period to
present facts in proper sequence,
and to relate cause to effect. Many
pages are completely blank.
H i t c h e n s’s book was
obviously intended to fill in
the gaps, which, from War I
until the defeat of the post-
J.O. plan by a referendum of
woolgrowers in 1951, it very
largely does. It is frankly
partisan, but well documented,
and is studded with eyewitness
sketches of vital conferences
and no-less-vital personalities,
such as J. P. Abbott, leader of
the “No” campaign. It is, in
a sense, more topical now than
when it was published a few
years back.
In the meantime, wool
dropped, a dispute over a
wool-selling centre in W.A.
flared-up, and in N.S.W. a
similar dispute led to the
Attorney-General, after repre-
sentations from both sides of
the House, instructing Mr.
Justice Cook of the Industrial
Commission to hold an inquiry
into the alleged boycott of
Goulburn by woolbuyers, and
other aspects of the sale of
wool.
Tn the meantime, too —in
February-March this year
—the Australian Woolgrowers’
Council held a special meeting
Present-day Merino.
A Merry villa champion special stud-rain, “Uniform 4th. This ram won honors at
Sydney Sheep Show 124 years after the champion Saxons depicted on page 31.
in Sydney and decided to
recommend to its affiliated
bodies that no major altera-
tion be made at present in the
wool-auction system.
One of the affiliated bodies,
the N.S.W. Graziers’ Associa-
tion, at its annual conference,
substantially adopted the
recommendation ; and also the
Chislett Report on Wool
Marketing has been published.
There is an intimate relation-
ship between all three. G. d’A.
Chislett is secretary of both the
Australian Woolgrowers’
Council and the Graziers’
Federal Council, and his report
was considered by the A.W.C.
before the recommendation
was made. Subsequently, the
N.S.W. Graziers’ conference
received Chislett’s report, and
a report from the A.W.C.
chairman, W. A. Weatherley,
before making its decision.
Francis Eric Hitchens —a
former president of the Aus-
tralian Wool and Meat Pro-
ducers’ Federation, W.A.
growers’ rep. on the Central
Wool Committee, and a
growers’ rep. on the Austra-
lian Wool Realisation Com-
mittee —was one of the authors
of the post-J.O. plan, and
exhibits a natural partiality for
it. His book should be read
side-by-side with the Chislett
Report, which has the advan-
tage of later information, and
which, as nearly as one can see
through a formidable forest of
facts and figures, presents an
entirely different argument.
need not go as far as
the leader - writer in
“Muster” (24/2/’59) who,
under the heading “At Last
Some Facts About Wool
Marketing,” praises it in what
1, for one, consider extrava-
gant terms —to agree that the
Chislett Report is a useful con-
tribution to the subject, and is
likely to be an influential one ;
indeed, the sequence of events
already outlined suggests that
it has already influenced two
important conferences.
It was the basis of a special
article in The Bulletin, has
been widely quoted elsewhere,
and “Muster” (normally a
small paper) ran the text in
full, making special arrange-
ments with newsagents for dis-
tribution in the country. So the
cumulative influence of the
report will probably be con-
siderable.
On the other hand, one need
not necessarily agree with
H. R. Shepherd, a delegate
from Narromine (N.S.W.) at
the Graziers’ conference, who
complained that members of
his association had become


t
Well be pleased to see
You at the Sheep Show
The Commonwealth Trading Bank will provide
full banking facilities at its Agency at the Sheep
Show and during the subsequent Auction Sales.
The Agency will be located between “B” and “C”
pavilions, near the Judging ring.
As an added service to country visitors, Mr. D. C.
Morrow, Manager of our Narrabri Branch, and
members of the Bank’s rural technical staff will
be available to discuss any aspect of banking,
finance or special features relating to the wool
industry.
You are invited to make full use of the facilities
available.
A. N. ARMSTRONG ,
General Manager.
COMMONWEALTH
BANK
TRADING
“sheeplike” in their uncritical
acceptance of Mr. Chislett’s
views.
As reported in “Land,” Mr.
Shepherd went on to say:
A large part of his [Chislett’s]
much-lauded report consists of a
recapitulation of well-known and
long-established facts in the
marketing of wool.
The only new matter in the
report, which I have read thor-
oughly, consists of Mr. Chislett’s
opinions.
While these are sound enough as
far as they go, it doesn’t seem right
to me that more weight should be
given to his opinions than to those
of many othjer men of longer
experience in- the industry.
But to form an independent
opinion on this (as Hitchens
points out) somewhat tangled
subject, it seems reasonable to
take stock of other sources of
information,
NE 0 f t u e most valuable of
I 1 L ine mosi VdlUdDie OL
these sources, in my
opinion, will be the transcript
G f what has been going on at
c a
No. D Court, on the first-floor
of the dour, sprawling bee-
hive of courts in Macquarie
Street at the ton of <svrlnev\
eet ’, at c the top ot Nydney S
Queen s Square, day by day
(with such breaks as the Christ-
mas vacation, a visit by the
court to Sydney wool-sales, and
a week at Goulburn) from the
latter part of 1958 well into
1959 ; read in conjunction with
Mr. Justice Cook’s eventual
report.
Anyone following the Wool
Inquiry in the daily papers
would get a very inadequate
idea of what has been brought
to light in that rather pokey
courtroom.
There was a bit of a splash
at first, when evidence on
buyers’ “pies” was given, and
now and then a news-item such
as “counsel clash” crept in.
C. L. D. Meares, Q.C. (assist-
ing the inquiry) and A. B.
Kerrigan, Q.C. (for the N.S.W.
and Queensland. Woolbuyers’
Association), obligingly clashed
many times, and so, less fre-
quently, did R. L. Taylor, Q.C.
(for Farmers and Graziers’),
and Mr. Kerrigan.
It is hard to see how counsel
could do otherwise in the cir-
cumstances. But-after a while
it ceased to be news. The
evening papers dropped out,
then the “Daily Telegraph,”
until, of the metropolitan press,
only the “Sydney Morning
Herald” kept a sort of spas-
modic watching-brief, reviving
it in a few well-chosen pars
every now and again.
Rural papers such as “Land”
and “Country Life,” however,
had reporters there every day,
and printed long accounts of
the proceedings—-an interesting
pointer to relative news-
values. But, granted that
country people (in sheep dis-
tricts, anyway) are more deeply
concerned in how wool is sold,
city folk have a stake in the
question, 'too. As someone
always reminds us around this
time of year, we all ride on the
sheep’s back.
one saw there, sitting
at the press-table through
most of the hearing, was a
grand-parade of the three
major sections of the industry
—growers, brokers, buyers—
with a fair smattering of expert
witnesses, including men of the
calibre of economist Sir
Douglas Copeland.
They have had their say, and
it has been taken down in
writing and, in a sense, has
been used in evidence against
them, in the form of cross-
examination ; and these
answers are on record, too.
The questions have been
asked by men skilled in the
art, who have insisted on “Yes”
or “No” to questions which
normally might be brushed
aside, or answered ambigu-
ously. Obviously this proce-
dure is more likely to bring
out awkward facts than any
ordinary research, however
well-intentioned and earnest
the researcher. Obviously, too,
answering questions under
these conditions is very differ-
ent from preparing an argu-
ment on paper.
It is necessary to state all this
in order to place such items as
the Chislett Report and Tangled
Skeins in what I consider to
be their true perspective.
Attending the Wool Inquiry
was often a mixed pleasure ;
flashes of intense interest
balanced by> heaps of boredom.
Rather like the heaps of wool
which were dumped on the
tables for us to sort at wool-
classing lessons. But, from that
monotonous sorting, logical
patterns evolved and stuck in
the mind. At the Wool Inquiry
one could, at least, admire the
deft manner in which com-
petent classers of facts plunged
their hands into heterogeneous
bundles, assembling a variety
of straight lines. And, bit by
bit, piece by piece, as state-
ment was compared with
document, checked and re-
checked with other evidence,
one began to form opinions.
'T'aking everything into con-
sideration, the timing of
the publication of the Chislett
Report seems curious.
Here, perhaps, it would be
useful to look at the
“Muster’ leader mentioned
earlier, since it may be taken
to represent an official attitude,
both to the report itself and to
the situation generally:
“Ever since the subject of
wool - marketing started to
develop into what it now is—
the most discussed and con-
troversial subject in the Aus-
tralian grazing industry—this
paper has consistently urged
growers not to commit them-
selves to any attitude, for or
against the retention of the
auction-system or any one of
the suggested variants of it,
until some factual and com-
prehensive examination of all
the implications of a change
might be available to assist in
coming to a decision based on
something more solid than
temporarily expedient or
emotional considerations.
“Such a document has just
become available in the form
of the report presented to the
Australian Woolgrowers’
Council by Mr. G. d’A. Chis-
lett, secretary of the A.W.C.
and of the Graziers’ Federal
Council. At any time, this


Mmmm
m
is
i
T
’
/
' !i'
.
e
<v
?s
Hi
H
a
gs&
■ W < % <y & ">
» i B * '** ? M,
> %y * *y? '"&}
3§ .... ' lA > V ._>. ••
m
' m
m
tXMKV.*
!
+r *
I
', j >
mm
How to chisel plow an area or paddock
The object of Chisel Plowing a paddock is not only to produce a certain condition in the soils .suitable for such
farming operations as sowing seed, but also to improve both the paddock and the soil.
1. To determine the depth of plowing, examine the soil with a spade in Hwo or three places.
This depth should, in shallow soil, just penetrate through the pasture root zone, the depth
will be more usually around 3in. or a little more.
2. Set depth control levers on trailing chisel plow to this depth. (For 3-pt. Linkage Plow with
- depth control wheels, adjust accordingly.)
3. Mark out the area to be cultivated by plowing two or three runs around the boundaries of
the area, taking care to travel evenly and closely to the fences. This preliminary marking
enables the operator to inspect the area carefully. Remove any logs, etc., that may be an
obstruction to plowing, as these spoil the appearance of the paddock.
4. If there are small erosion holes, hard areas, bare spots, cultivate these by breaking in the
sides of erosion gutters and ripping up hard areas or weedy growth patches.
5. If the paddock is being cultivated to a keyline, a guide line or contour, strike off from the
one end of an area, along any one of these lines, plowing parallel back and forth and turning
in the disturbed soil resulting from the two or three plowing runs which originally marked
out the area.
The depth control levers of the Yeoman's Plow have proved to be the most popular in the
world of chisel plows and will continue to remain so, although today the Yeoman’s 'Graham Plow
can be equipped with hydraulic depth control and mechanical depth control.
<2>
YEOMANS
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
537 Elizabeth St., Sydney, Tel. MX2515
The introduction of the Yeoman’s Graham Plow
into Australia with an emphasis on keyline and
contour cultivation, and the correct setting of the <
depth of cultivation according to each particular
soil, resulted in a boom for the chisel plow
as the most popular cultivating implement. Con-
trary to many expert opinions, the chisel
plow was immediately accepted b'y Australian
farmers and graziers. There are today
more manufacturers of chisel plows in Australia
than any other country in the world. BUT THE
YEOMANS’ GRAHAM CHISEL PLOW
REMAINS THE MOST SATISFACTORY
CULTIVATING EQUIPMENT.
POST THIS COUPON NOW
To YEOMANS Pty. Ltd.,
537 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Please send details of the Graham Plow
TO
ADDRESS
MAKE OF TRACTOR
Also send for details of YEOMANS BUNYIP
LEVEL, POST HOLE DIGGER, SEED BOXES,
LOCKPIPE & CROMAC 6'6" ROTARY
SLASHER.
Y44/8.4
analysis of wool-marketing
methods, of the advantages or
disadvantages that might
accrue from abandonment or
modification of the free-auction
system, and of methods by
which, in the existing circum-
stances, both growers and
buyers can safeguard against
price fluctuations —at any time,
such a report would be of
great importance to all sec-
tions of the wool-industry.
Today, with woolgrowers
grouping again into two camps,
each supporting diametrically
opposed systems of selling, it
has a tremendous significance
as the only objective and
seriously researched compila-
tion of relevant facts to which
graziers have access.
“The measure of the import-
ance attached by ‘Muster’ and
the Executive Committee of
the Graziers’ Association of
N.S.W. to this document may
be gathered from the fact that,
at considerable expense, the
full report, appendices ex-
cluded, has been included' in
this issue and that, despite the
many difficulties involved,
arrangements have been made
for the paper to be on sale <
with country newsagents.
“It is our conviction that, at
this juncture, we could not do 1
a more important service than
this for members of the asso- 1
ciation and other subscribers. |
We urge that they assist in
bringing about a better under-
standing, in the industry as a
whole, of the wool-marketing :
controversy by directing the i
attention of non-members to 1
the fact that ‘Muster,’ with the ]
full report, is available to them j
at newsagents.”
Co Mr. Shepherd’s poor
opinion of the report was
not shared by the executive of
his association.
But there are other voices-
off. Hard on the heels of the
Australian Woolgrowers’
Cou n c i l’s recommendation
(after receiving the Chislett
Report) came a statement from
B. Cole, president of the Wool
and Meat Producers’ Federa-
tion, in which he remarked
that he became “hysterical with
mirth” when he read that “the
present selling is under a free
(Continued on page 69)


SHEEP-OH!
By BILL HOWARD
For years I’ve been saying
and writing that the
shock-absorber of the
pastoral industry, the
shearing-contractor, makes too
much dough.
Giving contracting a go last
season I discovered that shear-
ing-contractors really earn
that dough. Woolaway Shear-,
ing Service was the rather pre-
tentious monicker of the outfit.
To be a good contractor one
has to be an authority on
petrol-engines, shearers’ egos,
“babblers” pre - breakfast
temperament, diesel-engines,
squatters’ attitudes, overhead-
gear, horse-form, the degrees
of hangoverness, and con-
tagious pustular dermatitis
(scabby-mouth to you!)
You have to be able to keep
good books, kill a sheep, cook
puffballoonies when the bread
is cut-out, swing Kelly pretty
well, have a clinical knowledge
of first-aid and knock-up a
bit of a feed when the cook’s
shot-through on you.
You have to be able to turn
charm on even when harassed
to billy-oh, especially when the
boss’s missus makes her .yearly
benign pilgrimage to the shed.
You must have a Pelmanish
memory, too, as you put her
over the wool-scales, and be
able to juggle those weights*
’and say, “Why you’ve lost six-
and three-quarter pounds since
last year, Mrs. Broadacres!”
Actually she’s gained half-a-
stone and is just on bale-weight
—2oolb.
You have to. be a psycho-
logist, and be able to sense
ahead a jack-up by 7 the
shearers. There may be a
particularly rough and burry
mob of wethers “in” ; every
man has “come back” a score a
day. You can feel their dis-
gruntlement. You hop-in first,
and tell the boys: “This is a
hell of a rough mob—they’re
worth a caser a hundred extra.”
The greasies were about to
demand a quid a 100 extra.
You save 15s. a 100, and earn
the approbation, “Good poor
, that!”
You have to be as diplomatic
as Bob Casey as you lean over
the sheepyard-rails and sympa-
thise with the squatter as he
laments about wool being down
and costs —that’s you!—rising.
You have to be as good a
raconteur as any travelling
salesman, and each year be
able to produce new naughty
and diverting stories, particu-
larly in the morning when the
owner comes to the shed
melancholy after hearing the
seven-o’clock news: “Wool fell
sevenpence-ha’penny in Bris-
bane yesterday.”
You have to be as dextrous
as a professional conjuror, and
This picture of a primitive shearing-shed near Cowra (N.S.W.) in the last.century
shows the bark roof kept down by saplings and a remarkable woolpress - product of
the inventive habits of the bushman. To form this press two great trees were put
upright in the ground, and, from a crosspiece, a huge beam (a gum-tree) was used
to put the necessary pressure on the box-press.
be able to slip-in, under the
rep.’s eyes, a “dry” ticket in-
stead of a “wet” one as you
count the secret vote as to
whether or not the sheep are
dry enough to shear.
You have to be as good a
meteorologist as Lennox
Walker to be able to keep that
shed full of dry woolly sheep.
Shearing - contractors never
sleep. One spot on the tin-
roof m the middle of the night
and they leap up, and tear
across the claypan to shove
another seven woolly hoggets
under the already-overcrowded
Wynyard-like shed.
You have to possess all the
Christian virtues with shearers
—patience, forbearance, toler-
ance ... it pays you to have
e m!
You must have the sporting-
instinct, too it also pays.
You’re 100 miles the other
side of Bourke ; 100 miles from
the nearest racing-supplement.
It’s Saturdee-arvo, and the
mob are bored. They ask you
—reasoning that you are the
“purse-man” and have the only
wireless —to run the s.p. book.
“Right-oh . . . ten - to - one
limit, no each-way.”
“Blimey, you’re a hard man,
Bill!”
The blankards back all the
7-to-l winners in the world
and you cough-up a fortune.
But the following three Satur-
days you come good in a big
way, and the shearers shear a
lot of sheep for you. It’s a
good, safe' lurk. No one can
take the knock on you . . .
you’re running the shearing-
books! . . .
Right, it’s your first contract
and you're pretty apprehensive.
You’ve organised a mob of
western boys you’ve known for
years. Cockies’ younger sons,
Not a booze-artist, whinger,
sheep-basher, Com. or wet-
voter among ’em.
You have a wonderful
woman cook. Her pastry is as
light and as pretty as she is.
“Best smoke-oh cook in the
back-country.” Her husband
is the burly woolpresser.
The rousies are good, alert
kids. It looks like being the
happy, cheap shearing you’ve
promised the owners. No
blues or bitterness.
You are starting on the
Monday morning. On Satur-
ou t a telegram from
one of the shearers sa ing his
girl . friend . s grandfather has
dled and he can - t come
p ro t» a bly a better run of sheds,
y ou are j n a S p ot you’ve
promised the squa ,t e r a full
board of shearers
T * •, . r.« ,
. s tke height of the shear-
mg-season, and shearers are as
rce as rocking-horse dung,
J ou are experienced enough to
know lt s nsky P«*ing-up a
(Continued on page 56)


WOOL FUTURES
consult
CLIVE HALL PTY. LIMITED
13 Phillip Street, Sydney
Phone, BU 6062
Telegrams, YARDWIDE Sydney
108 King Street, Melbourne
Phone, MB 1947
Telegrams, YARD WIDE Melbourne
information on Wool Futures will be supplied by return
m<ul free of charge.
Address all mail to:
Box 5260, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY
Box 4056, G.P.O.,
MELBOURNE


Snow on the
Fleece
By JACK LUSBY
Old Rennie turns his
pony’s tail into the
blizzard, hunches for-
ward in the saddle and
wonders what the blazes to
do next. He can still see the
ram a few feet past the pony’s
offside ear. The ram has also
turned rear on to it and is
already thick-mantled with
snow. In gathering darkness
Old Rennie can’t see much
more.
Somewhere close ahead is
the bleak, snowed-up street of
the tiny mountain township.
An uncle of Old Rennie’s used
to talk of 20,000 gold-diggers
clinging like limpets to this
God-forsaken high hump of
hell. Highest town in Aus-
tralia, Uncle Rennie would
boast.
Old Rennie knows that when
the blizzard eases so he can
shift his stinging eyes from the
ram he’ll be lucky to see the
low roofs of a few weather-
board shacks above the snow-
drift.
Damned wonder the ram’s
still alive, muses the small
figure monkey-hunched in the
saddle. By God he’d better be,
price the boss paid for him!
The pony moves slightly and
Old Rennie jerks out of a half-
doze. The blizzard has gone
screaming up around
Kosciusko, and here the dusk
is clear and freezing-cold.
Old Rennie’s boots hit the
snow beside the pony and he
goes stiffly along to the ram
and gets him moving. Just
moving, small- hooves sinking
deep, but moving.
The man and two animals
crunch slowly forward past one
white-roofed shack with the
drift high against black-
shadowed walls, then another,
also unlit. Old Rennie is
counting them. In the one and
only street now ; next one on
the right’s it. Bit of a light
showing! Old Rennie rubs a
stubbly chin in some surprise.
Still a few people about here,
but seldom someone else
shelters at Jackson’s shack.
Something looms suddenly
in front of Old Rennie, and
he peers for a few moments
in the gloom before recognis-
ing it as a snowed-in truck.
Not real big, but a high cabin
and a glimpse of caterpillar-
tread showing.
Old Rennie gets to the door
of the shack through a path
newly cut in the snow.
“Hoy, inside! ” he shouts and
knocks.
A man opens up and stands
/ there. Not much to be seen
of him against the light except
that he pretty well fills the
doorway.
“Like you to give me a
hand,” says Old Rennie. “I’ve
got to skull-drag a ram to the
shed round the back, and the
snow’s deep up against the
shack.”
nPHEY get the ram and pony
round to the out-house
without much trouble. Old
Rennie opens the doors and
knows where to find a lamp.
He unsaddles the pony and
finds a rug for him up on a
high shelf. Also pulls down a
lot of chaffbags and throws
them around on some old straw
on the board floor. The big
man just leans against the wall
watching till Old Rennie
finishes.
“Not your first time here,”
he says as Old Rennie breaks
ice covering a tub of water
with his boot-heel.
“Y’re dead right, mister.
This shack, Jackson’s, we calL
it, she’s been me winter resort
hundreds of times. Caught in
the dark or the,snow.”
“We’ve hopped into the stack
o’ firewood a bit,” says the
big man. “And just as well by
the look of you—you look
blue! ”
“Even me pony’s blue!”
“Yeah, she was a cold blow.
Here, have a rum. Pour your-
self a good one.” The big man
pushes a bottle and pannikin
across the shack’s rough table.
The bottle looks to Old Rennie
like one of a couple he’s left
with a bit of tinned food he
maintains at this halfway
house, so he pours a very
good one indeed. Beginning to
thaw, Old Rennie looks about
him. Same old shack. Stone
fireplace and woodstack, three
bunks against the other three
walls, one door, one window
and a few shelves. Two
hurricane-lamps hanging over
the table.
On one of the bunks lolls
the big man, pannikin in one
large red-hairy hand and a
rolled cigarette in the other.
His unzipped leather jacket
shows a loud-check shirt.
Heavy-duty pants and boots
Leather cap shoved well back
off a large, hard face.
“I’m Jim,” he says, and,
pointing his pannikin at the
man resting on the opposite
bunk, “Tony.”
“My name’s Rennie,” says
Old Rennie. Then, without
undue warmth, “Glad to meet
you.” He has the oldster's
dislike of finding strangers
making themselves at home in
what lie considers his own
domain. Tony is a short, thick
young man with a smooth,
broad face and black hair.
He waves a hand at Old
Rennie. Old Rennie nods back
and pours himself a second
rum before pushing the bottle
away.
“Have much trouble with
the ram?” asks the big man,
Jim ;
“His truck had trouble,” says
Old Rennie. “He had a
bloody great truck all to him-
self and it fell to bits or some-
thin’ back a few mile.”
“So they got you to bring
him on, eh?”
“Yeah. No blizzard then.
First o’ the season.”
“And a humdinger!” Jim


Start at the TOP--
HADDON RIG RAMS
Haddon Rig Special Stud Ram No. 54 is one of five
“Specials” to be offered at the Sydney Ram Sales.
Have Most to Offer
at the Sydney Sales
Haddon Rig is an excellent example of the practical value
of starting at the top. Established in 1882, the Stud was
founded on. the finest stock that Australia could provide —
38 Stud Rams and 3,400 ewes of pure Peppin-Wanganella
blood. An unswerving policy of mating “like with like”
ensures that every Haddon Rig Ram is true-to-type, and
possesses the evenness and prepotency so characteristic of
this famous strain.
At the Sydney Ram Sales in June, Haddon Rig will be
represented by a most outstanding team comprising 121 rams.
Five Haddon Rig Special Stud Rams, 38 Stud Rams, and 22
Selected Flock Rams will b'e offered by Dalgety & Company,
30 Selected Flock Rams by Elder Smith & Company, and
26 Selected Flock Rams by Goldsbrough Mort & Company.
Haddon Rig Blood is in extremely keen demand this year.
3,500 Flock Rams were available in March, and all were
sold. Stud sales on the property this season include Stud
Rams at 3,000 and 2,000 guineas to one of Australia’s largest
pastoral companies, and another at 1,500 guineas, also to a
pastoral firm. A number of Stud Rams at 1,000 guineas and
onder have also been sold.
Like every other Haddon Rig Ram, those selected for the
Sydney Sales spent their first fifteen months on the open
plains of Western New South Wales. Then they were classed
as 2-tooth reserves, and ran in the paddocks for another
six months or so before their selection in the Sales Team.
Leading Studs in N.S.W., Queensland, Western Australia and
South Australia are consistently improving the quality,
quantity and softness of their wool by using Haddon Rig
Rams. These studmasters know that it pays to start at the
top; there’s no sounder investment than Haddon Rig Blood'.
HADDON RIG STUD
Warren, N.S.W. Telephone: Warren 74
turns to Tony. “Someone’ll be
sleepin’ on the floor. That
plane feller’ll be back.”
“So let him sleep on it. He’s
rugged-up good enough.”
“Plane feller?” says Old
Rennie.
“W E ’ RE not the only blokes
** got stopped in it,” says
Jim. “This kid got down on
the road—he’s got skis instead
o’ wheels. Pie’s out there doing
something to it.” Jim stares
at the fire for a minute or so,
then: “That ram must be
worth a bit, Rennie, to get
around in a big truck all to
himself.”
“Worth a bit?” says Old
Rennie. “If he’d froze to death
they’d have shot me!”
“About what would one like
that run into?” says Jim.
“Aw, they go up to all sorts
o’ fancy prices. This feller’s
worth, every penny o’ four-
thousand quid. He was flew to
Cooma be special plane. Then
he gets this great truck to right
up near here. And, like I said,
it he’d froze stiff outside
there ”
“Look, Rennie,” Jim leans
forward, his hard face deadly
serious, “we know a man
who’d go for a ram like that.”
“He don’t go for this one!”
Old Rennie is suddenly wary.
“There’s more where this one
come from.”
“Yeah, yeah! But couldn’t
it be worth your while to have
lost this one in the blizzard?
Easy enough done. Miracle
you didn’t! They couldn’t
even question you!”
“Now then, now then ; not
me, mate!” says Old Rennie,
eyes fierce but with a tremor
of fear.
“The old coot’s crazy,” Tony
breaks in with a force in his
voice that shocks Old Rennie.
“We could hide the bloody
sheep in our bus out there and
get him away and nobody’d
see him. We could hide any-
thing in our truck!”
“Shut up, Tony!” says Jim
sharply. “Now look, Rennie,
we believe you about what this
ram’s worth. We can split it
between us. If you’ve lost
that ram in the blizzard I pay
you twelve-hundred-and-fifty
quid now ! I’ve got it on me.
Carry it for trading. We’ll get
our share later. What about it,
now?” Money appears magic-#
ally on the table. More than
Old Rennie’s been that close
to in his life.
“No!” Old Rennie screams
and leaps to his feet. He sup-
ports himself with hands
spread wide on the table and
glares wildly around the shack.
Old Rennie is frightened.
“Oh, well, it was worth a
try,” says Jim calmly,
resignedly. “Have a night-
cap?’’
Old Rennie opens his mouth
to speak, then simply shakes
his head.
“We’d better turn in, Tony,”
says the big man. “We’ve got
work tomorrow, digging her
out.”
“Got to look at ’em,”
mutters Old Rennie, and lets
himself outside.
TIE unlatches the shed doors,
reaches for the lamp on a
shelf just inside, and lights it.
Well, they’ve settled down for
the night. He blows out the
lamp, replaces it and closes
the doors. Makes his way
round the shack, skirting the
soft depth of the drift, to the
roadway near the truck. Oid
Rennie doesn’t want to go back
in the shack for a little while.
He buttons his heavy great-
coat, tight up under his chin,
pulls his hat down, tucks his
tingling ears in under it.
The weather’s still clear and
the landscape lies moon-white
against a starry black sky. Old
Rennie remembers the plane.
Might be someone to talk to
if he’s still working on it. He
ploughs along the line of
sleeping, snowbound shacks-.
The plane, its back to him, is
invisible, but soon there’s a
dim light down low on the
whiteness. Old Rennie walks
right along to it and finds
himself under a wing. There’s
a sound of movement above
him.
“Hullo, mister,” he says.
“Hullo there!”
‘‘Doin’ a bit?”
“Just covering the motor and
tying her down now. About
finished.’'
Beside Old Rennie a big
strut goes down into the snow.
“She’ll need some diggin’
out, mister. It’s right over your
wheels.”
“It’s not that deep—they’re
skis, not wheels. We’ll have
her out tomorrow all hunky-
dory barring more snow.” A
pair of legs find the ski-strut
and the pilot jumps down
beside the lamp. He’s not tall,
,but bulky in a big, fleecy
jacket.
“You’re campin’ with the
truck fellers, mister?”
“That’s right. You too?”
“Yeah, and they’ve got me
a bit worried. What do you
think of ’em?”
“Nothing in particular.
What’s up?”
“I’m a pretty old feller, and
they gave me a bit of a fright.”
(Continued on page 46)


17,000
PIECES IN A JIGSAW
Ever thought what it would be like to
assemble a jigsaw puzzle of 17,000 pieces—
and do it not once but 115,000 times
every year?
Well, that’s the kind of job GMH
Employees do. Every year 115,000 Holden
cars, utilities and panel vans roll off GMH
production lines, each unit made up of
17,000 separate parts and components.
You can imagine the vast amount of
planning needed to ensure that each
separate piece arrives at a certain time at
a certain spot on GMH production lines.
These parts and components are not all
made by GMH. Over 4,000 firms and
industries throughout Australia contribute
to the manufacture of Holden. Solely on
their production for Holden, these in-
dustries employ over 35,000 people and
with the 18,800 people employed in GMH
plants and approximately 16,000 employees
in GMH Dealers and distributorships, you
have a grand total of over 68,000 Aus-
tralians engaged directly or indirectly in
the manufacture, distribution and sale of
GMH products.
Thafs a picture of GMH in Australia.
A big organisation employing a lot of people.
Geared to produce more and better things
for more people — eroeiywhere .
<g
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY ® MELBOURNE ADELAIDE • PERTH
P24«?


The Interior and the Future
By M. H. ELLIS
This article reviews the actualities and potential
of the Queensland sheep-industry through the eyes
of the Payne Royal Commission.
The author suggests the appointment of a Com-
monwealth Technical Commission headed by W. L.
Payne to-plan the future of the semi-arid interior
sheeplands, and particularly of the 20-30-inch rain-
fall brigalow-belt which in Queensland is one-and-
a-half times as large as Tasmania.
Queensland is our lead-
ing cattle-breeding State
—of Australia’s 12-
million beef - cattle,
it holds about half. More
than a third of these are
in the Far North, above a
jagged line which runs cross-
country from near Sarina on
the east coast to the N.T.
border a little above Uran-
dangie. Almost exactly a
third are in the Central Dis-
trict, whose north - south
border follows an even more
irregular course from north
of Bundaberg to the South
Australian border, following
various watersheds.
Queensland produces more
beef and veal (bone-in) than
all the other States, except
N.S.W., put together.
Its sheep-position is unique
in another way. It has only
roughly a third as many sheep
as N.S.W., a million less than
Victoria, but- it is the only
State which can claim to be a
“pure Merino” State.
Out of its 22,116,000 sheep
last year, only 359 were not
Merino, and 64 of the balance
were Merino comebacks —the
produce of a Merino ram on
a crossbred Merino ewe —and
most of the remainder Merino
crossbreds.
The sheep - industry in
Queensland is a western in-
dustry, moving still farther
westward as the years go on.
The most easterly true, sheep-
breeding area is on the
southern Darling Downs, with
Warwick as its eastern out-
post.
In the Central District there
is a sort of island of sheep,
a narrow belt which runs
north-south from just above
Clermont to the south of
Springsure. Outside that, the
eastern border of the solid
sheep enclave is marked by
the towns of Warwick, Mil-
merran, Dalby and Chinchilla,
sweeps northward roughly up
the interior side of the Great
Dividing Range, its fringes
round by Roma, Alpha or
thereabouts on the Central
Line. It crosses the Towns-
ville-Mt. Isa railway east of
Prairie, sweeps westward to
the Flinders River system in
a peak to the latitude of
Ingham. Mainly its boun-
daries are governed by the
reach of the Mitchell-grass.
Cloncurry is nearly the
most westerly point of the
A group of shearers at Goonoo Goonoo Station (N.S.W.) at the turn of the century.
On this property (then, as now, owned by the Peel River Land and Mineral Company)
200,000 sheep were then shorn annually. On some of the bales, bearing the old
station-brand, sit G. B. G. King, manager of the station at that time, and his father, the
Hon. P. G. King, a grandson of Governor King.
main belt, but there is a
ragged flap of fine - wool
breeding-country which goes
out to the ’Dangie near the
border and further south to
Boulia.
Half -a -century ago
westerners would have looked
askance at the idea of taking
sheep to the Cooper and the
Burke and Wills country. But
today they are nearly out to
Windorah in the centre, and
well west of Quilpie and west
again of Thargomindah.
At the border of N.S.W. the
western border of the sheep-
country is not far east of the
Carapundy Swamp below the
Bulloo headwaters. Thus the
nearest Merino country in the
south to the sea is only 90
miles from the Gold Coast on
the east and 150 miles from
the S.A. border on the west.
The main part of the belt is
anything from 250 miles to
350 miles from the coast. At
its broadest it is 500 miles
wide ; for most of its north-
south length from 250 to 350
miles wide.
The area has thus been
shifting further westward
under the pressure of closer-
settlement for dairying and
mixed-farming on the east,
growing encouraged by the
development of modern facili-
ties for carrying and storing
fodder and station-requisites
and providing water-supply.
Closer-settlement
C'ixty years ago, the sheep-
station in Queensland was
synonymous with giantism-.
Stations such as Milo shore
a quarter-of-a-million sheep.
Most were primitive. Fences
were often confined to boun-
daries —if they were there at
all. Closer-settlement began
in the years immediately be-
fore World War I.
Today Queensland’s total
sheep-area of 60-million acres
is divided up thus:
Total sheep,
Flocks, per cent.
Over 10,000 .. 467 36.8
5000-9999 .. 1085 34.3
2000-4999 .. 1358 20.5
1000-1999 .. 800 5.2
Under 1000 .. 2164 3.2
Thus, about a third of the
whole sheep-population is in
flocks of from five- to ten-
thousand, more than another
(i Continued on Page 48)


Old Rennie tells the rest
of it.,
“Probably just a try-out,”
says the pilot. “A pretty poor
thing to do, all the same.” He
picks up the lamp and walks
all round the plane, comes back
to Old Rennie. “Well, this
lady’s set for the night!”
“Half her bloody luck.”
“Look, Mr.—er ”
“I’m Rennie.”
“Jensen here. Look, Mr.
Rennie, I shouldn’t worry too
much. These opportunists are
always ready to grab the un-
expected quid, but I feel these
two fellows have gone as far
as they intend to. Let’s sleep
on it, eh?” •
“Yeah, 1 suppose so. Apart
from all that, Mr. Jensen, I’m
damn sick of the way we’re
goin’, and so is the blasted
ram. Any chance of you takin’
him on? It’s only another few
mile, and all downhill from
here. Save the ram condition,
walkin’ in the snow. His own
truck’ll never catch up. The
company’d be glad as hell and
pay on the knocker. How
about that?”
“H’m. Well, I’m not a free-
agent, you see. I’m working
for people who want air-
pictures of this area urgently.
From the pics, they make
contour-maps. This time of
year we n.ive to use every
minute of clear weather. But
if the distance is so short, and
if tomorrow your matter seems
urgent . •. . once again, let’s
sleep on it. Okay?”
'T'he Jackson shack, inside, is
still warm, with a dying
fire and snores from Jim and
Tony. By the fire there’s a
billy half-full of canned beans,
hot enough to eat. Old
Rennie’s rum has been
partially spared. Meal over,
Jensen makes himself comfort-
able on the floor.
Old Rennie feeds some wood
into the fire, turns the lamps
low, and lies on the third bunk
determined to stay awake. His
eyes flick from the sleeping
Jim to the sleeping Tony. The
poor light and jumping fire-
shadows don’t hide the deep
anxiety on Old Rennie’s face.
However, Old Rennie doesn’t
allow for his own fatigue and
the drowsy heat from the fire.
Some time later he jolts back
to wakefulness as though he’d
been kicked under the bunk.
Sits up and squints here and
there, then freezes like an icicle.
Wide awake, up on one elbow
and staring straight at Old
Rennie is Tony.
“Glad you’re awake,
Rennie,” Tony says quietly.
“What for?” .
“Ah, I just can’t find me
makin’s for a smoke. Jim
musta shoved mine in his kick.
Can you throw yours over?”
Warily, watchfully, and with
a shaky hand Old Rennie
fumbles for the tin, finds it
and throws it across.
“Thanks. 1 got matches.”
Old Rennie's straining ears
hear a rustle of paper, hands
rubbing, and after a moment
there’s a match-flare and the
red end of a cigarette. The tin
thumps back on his bunk. Old
Rennie feels suddenly chilled.
He rolls off his bunk, steps
carefully over Jensen on the
floor and builds up the fire
a bit. Back on the bunk he
lies on his side and tries to
keep awake. The revived fire
plays shadow tricks on tne
walls and makes it hard for
Old Rennie to spot any move-
ment in the shack. He
manages to rolPa smoice him-
self, but has to put it out half-
finished. Old Rennie can t keep
awake.
When he does wake there’s
grey daylight in the snack.
And the grey daylight shows
there’s no Jim, no Tony. Old
Rennie pulls his boots on,
hurries do the door and
wrenched it open. Heaps of
shovelled snow lie out on the
road where the truck stood.
Old Rennie runs out and
studies the road. There’s been
a snowfall since the truck went.
It’s tracks, blurred, turn and
lead back in the direction from
which the truck came.
Old Rennie hurries back
from the roadway, skirts the
drift against the shack and
drives his spindly legs into the
snow like pistons as he heads
for the shed. Its doors are
open and there’s nothing inside.
Even the pony has gone.
A part from his own fresh
tracks all Old Rennie can
see in the snow are half-filled
indentations that could mean
anything.
“The pony,” he mutters.
“Did they think I’d catch ’em
on the pony?”
Old Rennie’s faded eyes gain
a glint of fury. He squints at
the sky. Clouded all over and
not a nice color. But no snow
at present. “Just might catch
you bastards with somethin’ a
bit quicker’n a pony!” Old
Rennie says to the sky and the
snow.
The cold blast in through the
< open door and the daylight
have wakened Jensen. He’s'
kicked-up the fire and is heat-
ing something from a freshly-
opened tin. Old Rennie points
a scrawny finger at the empty
bunks and jerks his head like
a tired puppet toward the door-
way.
“Before breakfast?” says
Jensen.
“We can eat that later.
Come ’n’ look!”
Outside Jensen immediately
turns and stares hard along
the white length of the road-
way. “The kite’s okay,” he
says, “flow what?”
“This is' what!” says Old
Rennie, and Jensen has to
move to keep pace in a quick
and thorough tour of inspec-
tion.
“If they can get the ram into
some hard-to-find spot below
the snowline,” says Old Rennie
over a hasty breakfast, “they
can hide him for weeks or
more. Grass down there,
mister.”
“You know your own job.
You feel sure they’ve got your
ram?”
"You bet, mister. And I’ve
got to get him back! And
we’ve got to hurry. It could
snow again.”
Old Rennie is pleading in
desperation now, mostly with
eyes and hands.
“Righto—they’ll be easy to
spot on fire snow. I can radio
the position. No harm done,
any way it goes,” says Jensen.
“I’ll just kill the nre, ’ says'
Old Rennie, “and bring a
spare shovel.”
Tt’s almost an hour later when
■*- the plane looks like a going
concern. Jensen has to give
her a lot of throttle to blast her
out of her anchorage, leaving
a high smother of white drift-
ing in the grey air. Now the
plane turns, facing back along
the empty roadway, and Old
Rennie feels the bucket-seat
press hard on his weary back
as the roadside shacks sweep
by and fall away.
For a few moments Old
Rennie can’t take his eyes from
the great cloud-bellies sweep-
ing majestically over the wing.
Then he switches his attention
to the racing, twisting, heaving
snowscape below. He sits on
Jensen’s right and concen-
trates on that quarter. Jensen
hangs up the radio-phone, and
now Old Rennie hears Jensen
in his own earphones.
“See anything you know?”
“I think so.” Old Rennie
points out on his right to a
clump of weed-sized trees near
a big rock outcrop. “The road
goes by there.”
The trees and rock rise and
are pointing straight at Old
Rennie’s shoulder; then they
turn in the air, sink back right-
side up and come drifting along
towards him.
“See the road?” shouts Old
Rennie, pointing. “You c’n
just see her! Few trees and
rocks stickin’ up along each
side!”
“I’ve got her,” says Jensen.
“Weather’s turning sour.”
He follows the barely
discernable windings of the
road for five minutes, then
turns in a tight circle, pinning
Old Rennie hard to the seat.
“There, I think, they are,”
says Jensen.
Old Rennie struggles to look
over past Jensen and there, sure
enough, is the truck. It seems
to Old Rennie to be ploughing
along very slowly and at the
same time rotating like a black
beetle on a white gramophone
disk.
The plane levels abruptly
and leaves the black beetle in
possession of the field. Jensen
uses the radio briefly. Old
Rennie notices that the racing
ground below disappears at
times for a few moments.
Sometimes the plane slices
through grey curtains of cloud.
The rock-flecked white ridges
pass closely below like night-
mare-size waves in some
petrified sea. Old Rennie
thinks the whole thing looks
pretty good. He feels every-
thing’s pretty good now he’s
located the ram.
“You told ’em where he is?”
he says into his mike.
“They know where the
truck is.”
“By God, mister, that was
quick work! Good work!
Where are we headed now?
Cooma?”
“Our only chance now,
chum, is where we came from.
More blizzard. Keep your eyes
peeled. In a minute or two
you may see something I miss.”
. Old Rennie catches on, and
watches the cloud-streaked
snowscape come drifting and
heaving beneath. He watches
as unwaveringly as Jensen
Shifting his eyes out to the
right for a moment he blinks
with surprise. There’s nothing
to see beyond three or four
hundred yards that way. _ Sud-
denly there’s nothing to see
anywhere. The wingtips are
vague. Old Rennie glances at
Jensen.
Tensen seems to be staring
** fixedly ahead —at nothing.
Then there’s * a faint light in
o Continued on page 79)


Don’t wait until dry times force you to buy hay at high prices
STORE YOUR OWN HAY AND
GRAIN
FOR HAMMER MILLED MIXTURES
.
r M
ml
OR&
The importance of hay and grain mixtures as a valuable
stock food is now generally recognised. Offering more food
units than its equivalent in baled hay, it cuts costs and results
in healthier, heavier stock.
So plan now to store your own hay and grain in Lysaght
Hay Sheds and Lysaght Grain Silos. And at feeding time
use Lysaght Dual Feeders, which will feed hammer-milled
chaff and grain, mixed or separate, without bridging or
blockage.
With its unique curved roof, the scientifically designed
Lysaght Hay Shed holds approximately 320 more bales of
hay than a conventional type hay shed of similar dimensions?
READY-TO-
ASSEMBLE
o
To John Lysaght (Australia) Pty. Limited
(C'ty)
Note: N.S.W. enquiries should be directed to John
Lysaght (Australia) Pty. Limited. Newcastle Works,
Newcastle. In other States please refer your enquiry
to the office of John Lysaght (Australia) Pty,
Limited in your State.
I am especially interested in:
LONG TERM FODDER STORAGE 0
SHORT TERM OR ‘BULK HANDLING’ 0
WATER STORAGE 0
(Please tick the square opposite the unit you are most
interested in)
LYSAGHT RURAL PRODUCTS The Key
to Successful Modern Farming
Please send me details of
fabricated Products:
WATER TANKS
10,000 gal. (flat plate )□
25,000 gal. corrugated )□
50,000 gal 0
75,000 gal. .. .. E 3
100,000 gal C 3
Open ended Barn for
storing bulk grain,
meadow hay, lu-
cerne .. n
Universal Grain Bins £3
Dual Feeder .. □
Hay Shed .. .. J 3
the following Lysaght Pre-
GRAIN SILOS
200 bushel
250 bushel (elev.)
500 bushel
1,000 bushel
2,000 bushel
2,000 bushel (squat)
3,000 bushel
3.500 bushel
4.500 bushel
Earth Rings □
Grain Augers (Ver.) □
Grain Augers (Mob.) 0
nnnnnnnnn
NAME
B
7 ~
NAME OF PROPERTY ROUTE OR RMB No.
DISTRICT STATE
RPICC/
DIMENSIONS
Width, 30 ft. Length, 45 ft. Height to Eaves,
16 ft. Overall Height, 22 ft.
Can be extended in ft. sections to any length.
Quickly, easily erected. Fully braced structural
steel frame. £420 F.O.R Newcastle.
•TO
i
m
■
LYSAGHT Grain Silos
The proven way to store grain quickly and cheaply and
to conserve it against drought conditions or future price
rises. Full range of sizes from 200 bushel to 4,500 bushel
capacity, completely prefabricated ready for assembly.
Fire, weather and rodent proof! Prices range from £4B
to £453 F.O.R. Newcastle.
Wi
W^MJm
x-'.; ■'
LYSAGHT Dual Feeder
Feed tossed on the ground is largely wasted through wind
and trampling. With a Lysaght Dual Feeder, however,
wastage is entirely eliminated. Supplementary rations can
be easily added and many man hours saved. Built to last
a lifetime this 50 bushel Feeder is the strongest and
heaviest automatic feeder made. £6O F.O.R. Newcastle.
John Lysaght (Australia) Pty. Ltd.,
Offices in Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Fremantle.


PORT LINE LTD .
Regular Sailings—Fast and Modern Vessels.
Taking Wool, Refrigerated and General Cargo to United
Kingdom, American and Canadian J’or.ts.
Limited number of passengers carried.
■v 1
m
m
AGENTS—
G 1 RISK, BRIGHT it CO., Brisbane, Newcastle, Sydney,
Melbourne,, Adelaide, Rertli, Fremantle and Hobart.,
A. G. WBlits*TlCK & WOOLGKOWISRS CTIt., Lainiced-ju.
AUSTRALIAN' ESTATES CO., i/f i>.. N ortli Queensland ports.
Head Office in Australia:
PORT LINE LTD.
(hi/-. in hu/ilonil)
50 St,. Sydney.
New Zealand: Maritime iSauMiitg, Wdfingt«o.
High-Grade
Riding Boots
For over 50 years, Byrne Bros, have
been Australia’s leading shoe makers.
Quality, styling and true craftsmanship
will be found in every pair of Riding
Boots, whether they be a stock size or
tailored to your individual requirements.
Riding Boots, tailored from high-quality
imported German Calf and English Silk
E1a5tic .................. From £l4/14/0
YRNE BROS.
Shoemakers for 50 years
15 WILMOT STREET, SYDNEY
{Opposite the Troeadcro)
third in flocks over 10,000,
and the balance divided among
smaller close - settlement
lessees and farmers.
Costs and Profits
HThe economic condition of
the Queensland sheep-in-
dustry is not easily ascertain-
able, but a lot of light has been
shed on it by W. L. Payne,
president of the Queensland
Land Court, who, as a royal
commissioner, has just
reported on land-settlement to
the Queensland Government
after an exhaustive inquiry.
He declares that though one
would think that reliable cost
of wool-production would be
easily obtainable, “such is not
the case.” It is surprising
“how comparatively few
graziers seem to know what
their costs of production
actually are.”
So many graziers, he added,
were engaged in producing
wool on varying types of
country “that one would
imagine that costs had only
to be asked for to be imme-
diately forthcoming,” but “the
industry unfortunately has not
yet reached that desirable state
of efficiency”; and even
brokers whose business •it is
to market wool and act as
bankers and financiers for
graziers cannot supply exact
production costs.
Nevertheless, despite propa-
ganda based on hypothetical
holdings and hypothetical
grazing activities, the commis-
sion secured some remarkably
interesting and copious figures,
particularly regarding " the
operations of one particular
property in Central Queens-
land, well managed and run-
ning normally 15,000 to 20,000
sheep. ft is a breeding-
property with good - quality,
heavy-cutting sheep, with sur-
plus stock for sale each year.
Over the decade 1948-57
costs of production on this
property showed great un-
evenness: from 19.1 d. in 1948
to 45.05 d. in 1954, counting
wool alone, but after allow-
ing for sales of surplus stock
showing profit from 2.2 d.
in 1948 to 29.48 d. in 1954.
These latter figures mean very
little in view of the low book-
value of the sheep.
At any rate, the commis-
sioner accepted that on a well-
managed and sizeable property
with heavy average fleeces,
and apart from sheep sales,
and interest on invested capi-
tal, the range of production-
costs could be taken over the
last three years before 1958
as ranging from 32d. to 39d.
per lb.
However, it was found that
on two sets of properties
with from 5000 to 12,000
sheep in North Queensland
and three roughly similar in
size and stocking-aggregate in
central and s.-w. Queensland,
there was a marked difference
in costs. Comparison of two
small properties carrying
5000 head showed an advan-
tage for the south and s.-w.
ones of 37.8 d.. against 45.17 d.
in the north. On two Jarge
properties producing round
90.0001 b. wool. representing
'a cut in the 7|lb.-range
average, the northern figure
was 37.75 d. and the southern
31.89 d. These figures embraced
all living expenses, including
schooling expenses for the
children.
Mr. Payne says that "there
is a rule-of-thumb that the
cost of running a sheep at
present, in good districts,
varies from about 255. a sheep
lo 325. a sheep, with an
average fleece higher than the
State average of 8 fib.” How-
ever, it seems “there is no
such thing as an average cost
of production applicable to a
large number of holdings,”
and any attempt to produce
a firm average gives only
“very misleading” figures.
Costs naturally tend to soar
on smaller properties. There
seems to be a variation as
great as 20 per cent, as be-
tween the 5000-sheep farm
and the 12,000-sheep one ;
and when it comes to the man
in the 2000-sheep range, he
either does a great deal of the
work himself or is in trouble.
It is striking that Mr.
Payne deckled, before the
recent wool-rises, that sheep-
holdings in Queensland —
where, of course, nearly all
are on Crown leasehold—“are
generally in a sound financial
position, good seasons and
high prices having enabled the
wiping-out of all debts and
the accumulation of substan-
tial reserves.”
So that, “if any old-estab-
lished grazier on an adequate-
sized area is not in a sound
position now, he has only
himself to blame” for not
having taken advantage of the
good times of the last decade.
Recent purchasers of small


NOTHING EQUALS
WARMRAY'S AMAZING EFFICIENCY!
warmray
• TRIPLE PURPOSE
• SLOW COMBUSTION
• AIR CONDITIONING
HOME HEATER
new"H.D."model
has over 7,000 ru. ft. heating
rapacity, equipped with a non*
jamming shaker grate.
• BURNS ANY SOLID FUEL—
AND NEED NEVER GO OUT.
if Beautifully enamelled
on solid cast iron, Model “H.D.”
introduces a new mottled CERAMIC GREY,
a matching tint for the contemporary or traditional
home. HAWAIIAN CREAM is also available.
Owing to fuel saving the "Warmray" ACTUALLY COSTS NOTHING!
Reduces fuel bill at least 75 per cent.
Vo
”^*l4
'>2 W&
::s^S»^sr
*
& :■
- »<
ass
.
i stalls in rooms with oi
icithout fireplaces.
MODEL No. 3
SUPER DE LUXE
■Jf Large capacity
over 10,000 cu. ft.
Special large firebox
for long burning with-
out attention.
■jc Extra large hotplate
for cooking.
The secret of Warinray’s efficiency is the patented
Heating Tubes (illustrated) which are built into the
firebox. The air in the room passes through these
tubes continuously, thus maintaining an even, overall
warmth.
WORLD PATENTED
HEATING TUBES MAKE
THIS THE MOST
ECONOMICAL AND
BEST ROOM HEATER OF
THEM ALL, REGARDLESS
OF PRICE
" m m'm <m m
*s■
WARMRAY
TUBES
HEATIN6
* BEWARE OF IMITATIONS
Imitated?? Often!!
Equalled?? Never!!
NOTHING Equals Warmray's Amazing Efficiency!
Sold by Stores, Builders’ Suppliers and Hardware
Merchants everywhere.
WARM RAY PTY. LTD.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney
Telegrams: “Warmray,” 8L2217
If unobtainable locally, ’phone, write or call for illustrated
brochure and name of nearest agents.
3/HP-6
holdings at high costs are in
a different position.
The Sweetness of Adversity
'T'he commissioner added, in
respect of the recent
slump in world prices:
An economic siege, for a short
period, is not altogether an un-
mixed misfortune, apart from its
effect on the community by the loss
of national revenue. It calls on the
industry to put its house in order,
to improve its technique and to
eliminate extravagance and waste
....and puts a brake on the con-
tinuous. .. .rise in costs, and....
checks the increase in absentee
ownership which, in recent years,
has been increasing much too
rapidly.
His findings about the
growers’ prosperity are con-
firmed in some well- and long-
settled districts of the south
by the values of land per
sheep taken over actual sales
of 206 properties comprising
3.5-million-odd acres in the
Goondiwindi, St. George and
Cunhamulla districts.
In the Goondiwindi area
land provisionally worth £4 an
acre was worth £2O in 1955,
but has dropped back to under
£lB. Around St. George the
climb has been from £2 to
£lO, with the graph showing
relatively the same kind of
rise and fall. Around Cunna-
mulla the increase has been
from under £2 to £l4, there
being a steep rise from £6 to
£l4 between 1956 and 1957.
Certainly the history of
some properties in this dis-
trict tends to show why
values have increased so
startlingly, apart from illus-
trating the remarkably lenient
rental policy of the Queens-
land Lands Department,
which becomes more striking
when it is remembered that
rents are a deduction for
income-tax purposes.
An example from the Cun-
namulla district shows how
advantageously a Queensland
sheepfarmer in what used to
be considered precarious
country can be placed.
Rents and Stability
TJ ents were determined in the
district in April last and the
highest placed by the Land
Court on grazing-selections was
10-ld. an acre, which was
applied to a very good sheep-
selection of 15,300 acres at
Wyandra. It was well-watered
breeding-country, capable of
carrying one sheep to four
acres.
Reckoning the rent on the
basis of 4 per cent, of its
capital-value, its unimproved
capital-value, according to Mr.
Payne, would be about 225. an
acre. Yet a few months after-
wards it was sold on the basis
of an unimproved capital-value
of £4 3s. 4d., and this was in
the middle of a drought.
In effect, in that bad time,
the buyer found it worth while
to pay the seller 95 years' rent
in advance for the right of
occupation when the future
looked gloomy as to water, and
wool-prices were as low as
they had been for a decade.
Most graziers are very well
satisfied with grazing-lease con-
ditions and rentals which are
subject to few controls, the
Land Court standing for a
policy of incentives.
A few, however, keep up an
incessant propaganda against
“high rentals” and regard
grazing as a speculation in
which the profit lies in the
turnover from sales of land
rather than of wool. These
force the court towards control
of sale-prices, a policy which it
opposes on the principle that
“moderation in rents is a
matter of land statesmanship,”
because “graziers must be.
allowed ample margins” to
meet “the risks and uncertain-
ties of their industry.”
The court keeps a strong
check on the Land Administra-
tion civil-servant tendency to
increase rates.
Its influence, even when not
directly invoked, is always a
brake on the tendency of a
Government to use the land
primarily as a revenue-raising
source to the detriment of the
industry. Mr. Cahill, of
N S.W., would be most un-
happy with the Queensland
Land Court.
Not long ago the Administra-
tion tried to raise the rents of
a bit of the fine Fernlee country
90 miles to the west of Dirran-
bandi to 124 d. per acre. On
actual returns over the past
few years this would not sound
unreasonable ; but on a long-
term view it is thought by the
president of the court “dis-
turbing” and “indicating a
desire to drive for high rents.”
Before the land went to ballot
last October it was brought
down to a “quite sufficient”
rent of 84d.
Mr. Payne, in his royal com-
mission report issued early this
year, wrote that “the present
new standards of rent are suffi-
ciently high.” Very many
properties have not yet been
reassessed, and if the Crown
needs more revenue it will get
it with the taking-up of the
backlog, but will be urged to
moderation by the commis-
sioner’s dictum that rents
higher than those now ruling
on the new scale should not
again be raised until wool
o Continued on page 52)


SHEEP-BREEDING AND WOOL-PROMOTION
By D. M. ARCHER.
President, Queensland Merino Stud Breeders’ Association.
Tt needs little imagination to
recognise that a very close
relationship exists between the
breeding and development of
the Australian Merino and our
future plans for food-produc-
tion. Without the success of
the former, the latter is doomed
to failure. The breeder
delivers the goods, while the
wool-promoter sells them ; and,
as there are serious deficiencies
in the organisation of both
wool-production and wool-
promotion, any constructive
criticism should be handled
separately and in its right per-
spective.
The Australian Merino, as
it stands today, is the result
of 100 years’ consistent effort
by the stud-Merino breeders
of Australia. Their road has
not been made easy by these
factors: (1) the vagaries of the
customer (that is, the wool-
grower), who “wanted ’em
D. M. ARCHER, president of the
Queensland Merino Stud Breeders’
Association and author of this article.
plain” one year and “thick” the
next ; (2) the Land Admini-
strator, who in his misinter-
pretation of the term “closer-
settlement” settled man and
beast on a like basis, up-
setting Nature’s economy and
reducing the weight of wool-
production by several pounds
a head ; (3) the scientific in-
vestigator, overburdened with
enthusiasm and technical
knowledge, but, generally
speaking, lacking all practical
knowledge of the Merino and
its habits, who nevertheless
criticises the breeder on his
achievements to date, and
clouds the minds of many
with obscure and incompre-
hensible suggestions towards
what should be done to pro-
duce the “perfect Merino.”
No one claims that the stud-
breeder, in his march of pro-
gress, has not made mistakes,
and no one can say that he
has not been quick to rectify
them to the best of his ability ;
in placing the 1959-model
he will not be accused by
many of not having done a
fair job towards the consolida-
tion of our national economy.
The flock-breeders—that is,
the actual woolgrowers—have
also pulled their weight, sur-
mounting the obstacles men-
tioned and combating to the
best of their ability
the vicissitudes con-
fronting the industry.
But underneath all
this lies a feeling
that all is not well
with the methods
being adopted in the
administration o f
our great sheep-and-
wool industry. In
point of fact, the
causes for such feel-
ing are many, but
can be stated briefly
by saying that
Merino-breeding has
been continually
heckled along the
line by misunder-
standing of what is
really necessary for
its complete success.
Much advice has
been given, but little
taken, because those
ministering for its
welfare know noth-
ing of its needs.
The results of this
policy are plain to sec.
The great Merino-studs of
Australia are diminish-
ing, because the old masters
can’t live for ever, and those
coming on understandably lack
the enthusiasm to fight a losing
battle against land-administra-
tion which becomes increas-
ingly detrimental to their
product. Further, young men
are not keen to be trained as
specialists in an industry which
has its proved field of opera-
tion threatened and its future
obscured by uncertainty and
frustration.
The same applies, in a lesser
degree, to the vast number of
woolgrowers who produce the
Australian wool-clip. How can
anyone be expected to develop
his land and his
stock for the future
when his land-tenure
and carrying-capacity
are limited far below
the margin possible
for the efficient pro-
duction of his
stock?
And so it is true
when people say our
breeding and pro-
duction methods are
not what they should
be. But it cannot
all be placed at the
door of the pro-
ducer, as most of the
troubles have arisen
from the conditions
under which the job
has to be done.
The remedy lies
not in trying to
breed a new Merino,
but in seeking a
more equitable
balance of what
Nature meant it to
have wide open
spaces in the under-
-20-in.-rainfall areas
of the Commonwealth and a
living-area that is a living-area
in fact and not in fancy. Such
reforms would put some hope
back into the hearts of those
who still want victory in place
of threatened defeat, and with
these reforms would come an
improvment in our sheep-and-
wool industry—more than 50
per cent, supplied by Nature’s
necessities, the other 50 per
cent, by the hand of the wool-
grower. Further, our efforts
must go beyond improving the
top 50 per cent, of our
Merinos, which are at present
palling their weight ; it is the
lower 50 per cent, of our Aus-
tralian flock-numbers that
must be raised to a higher
standard, and scientific
approach to the improvement
of the Merino should be based
on the knowledge that in stock-
breeding one cannot race ahead
and leave too much behind for
the “sweeper.” That is where
sheep - and - wool production
must join hands with wool-
promotion,
The fight of wool-promotion
must be based on an all-out
effort to prove, not only to our-
selves but to every prospective
woolbuying country in the
world, that Merino-wool is far
ahead of any man-made fibre,
IAN MACPHERSON GRANT,
secretary of the Queensland Merino
Stud Breeders’ Association.
In this regard every pound of
inferior Merino-wool produced
can be looked upon as a step
backwards from the success of
this aim. No sales-talk will
carry us far unless backed by
a superior article. It should
be remembered that synthetic
interests are among our largest
purchasers of wool, and low-
grade wools cover a high per-
centage of their purchases.
If wool-promotion is to
succeed, its efforts must be
backed by every organisation
connected with wool. At the
moment too many people use
wool when it suits them ; few
look upon its success as a
national asset and its failure as
a national calamity.
Representation should be
extended to bodies such as
manufacturers, wholesalers,
retailers, etc., to participate
with advice in the handling
and selling of the finished
fabric, while a closer liaison
(Continued on page 55)


BOX 2712, 5.P.0., SYDNEY. PHONE: 80951.
DANARM IS DYNAMIC!
The DDBF, direct drive chain saw has everything for-
© CROSSCUTTING
© LOPPING
© RIPPING
© FELLING
© BORING
m
m.
I
SSSS
m
m
m i
■*»!!!*
m
i
yMm
.
5
O
A STEP AHEAD OF EVERY OTHER TIMBER CUTTER
Power speed lightweight accessibility for easy maintenance reliability and ruggedness the DDBF
has everything to take the hard work out of chain sawing. Power is provided by the new Villiers 8F engine. Fit-
ted with a Diaphragm Carburettor for full-power cutting at any angle, even upside down. Operated efficiently in
any weather and any climate, cuts all kinds of timber, soft or hard, green or dry. Designed for heavy logging,
but is equally suitable for farm and pulpwood production. 16" cutter bar £l7B. 22" cutter bar £lB4. 30" cutter
bar £l9O. Write for the descriptive coloured Brochure. Post free. Box 2712, G.P.O. Sydney.
Machinery Department, Goulburn Street Buy your Danarm on A.H.'s
Famous Low Weekly Terms.
14'5
weekly


FJ
-!**«. a- m
s m m
r •-» * ® a
■mmm m m
mmm
M W ft
» m m
mmmm m
mmm m m
m ss m a
W * » ?
■|» ® «» 3
*» m m \
mmmi
mmm i
«»»!
»« » i
mmm
mmm
mmm
mmm
mmm
mm
m i
2*
m m
IP « i
m.mmn
m m $
On display at the Sheep Show will be the new Wilmo
Fleece Weighing Table —the unit that makes culling
by fleece weights a practical proposition.
It is a scientifically proven fact that heavy-cutting
Merino stock produce heavy fleece cutting offspring
—greasy fleece weight characteristics are strongly
inherited.
Here is the chance to combine visual culling with
weighing, eliminating double handling and hold-up
of fleeces from board to bin. -
Simple to use, easy to transport or store. Table
size 53in. x 106 in.
The WILMO FLEECE TABLE is on display at the
WILCOX MOFFLIN stand in the Cattle Judging Ring.
I
THE PORT OF LIVERPOOL
HTH
==£.
/r
i
WM
at
SLufim
Herbert R. Young
Australian and New Zealand Representative
MERSEY DOCKS AND HARBOUR BOARD
19 Bridge Street, Sydney
SHIP VIA LIVERPOOL
Prompt despatch Rail, Road or Canal
again averages between 65d. to
70d. a pound. Then they
might be allowed to “creep up-
wards.”
The present rates are fixed
as “perfectly fair” on a basis
of 55d. It is an insistent policy
in the Payne method, more-
over, that rent —“payment for
the use of land without which
no industry would exist” —
must be based exclusively on
unimproved value, and that no
tenant must be asked to pay
any extra rent because of his
improvements. There used to
be a struggle on this issue in
the early days of Labor rule.
At a stage at which the
industry is 120 years old and
settlement has covered the
whole area of the State in
latitudes possible for sheep it
might seem that the wool-
industry had reached its widest
expansion, and that it would
be progressively encroached on
by closer farming settlement
needed to feed the now rapidly
increasing population of the
State. This since World War
I has more than doubled.
However, there is still room
for further expansion.
Interior Queensland, like
other semi-arid tracts, has a
huge reserve of land which has
been locked away from maxi-
mum use because of the lack
of capital and economical
means to adapt it to its pur-
poses, until modern methods
have made it available.
New heavy-duty machinery,
aerial fertilising and sowing,
and new types of pasture and
provision of water are now
opening-up hitherto uneco-
nomic country in area the size
of fairly large European king-
doms.
The Mitchell-grass
'T'he basic sheep-country of
1 Queensland has been on the
peerless Mitchell-grass plains
and downs which cover most
of the prime sheeplands.
Mitchell-grass is about the
only fodder-grass which would
not repay for replacement. It
has its disadvantages. While it
carries a sheep on from three
to five acres, on the estimate of
Dr. Skerman of the University
of Queensland, and provides
standing hay during winter and
spring, it is a sub-maintenance
diet during that period.
Mitchell-grass country is
drought country, but the grass
adapts better to drought con-
ditions than any non - in-
digenous fodder could be ex-
pected to do. It grows on a
fertile blacksoil, is self-mulch-
ing and capable of storing a
good deal of moisture in the
3ft. crust above the underlying
stone.
After .summer rains it is
possible in some regions to
grow silage crops such as
sorghum on Mitchell-grass
country, and this in the 1957-8
drought provided a cheap but
adequate fodder for young
sheep at the rate of 41b. per
animal per day.
Cropping for fodder-conser-
vation, however, is unlikely to
be economic except as a
drought palliative. The im-
provement and stabilisation of
the Mitchell-grass country
seems rather to lie in the direc-
tion of improvement of the
grass and study of its fertilisa-
tion rather than in its replace-
ment. It is the best fodder
for its environment: the very
heart of Queensland wool-
prosperity.
The 55-million acres of
mulga in the southern interior
from the Balonne westward is
another matter. This country
cannot be cleared without
robbing it of a valuable stand-
ing drought-fodder, but Dr.
Skerman believes that the
addition of phosphorus to its
rich soil might greatly improve
its productivity.
The low-carrying gidyea
country, which needs clearing


ALIKE AS TWO PEAS.
,
B
..
S
..■i.a.Miait
DON'T BELIEVE IT!
When it comes to automotive spare parts/
only one brand is genuine. No copy of a
genuine spare part can be completely identical
to the original. Only those spare parts made
to the original design specifications can be
relied upon to give the same satisfactory service.
When your car is being serviced, for safety’s
sake insist on spare parts made by the
manufacturer of the original equipment. You
can get original equipment Lockheed, Borg &
Beck, Thompson and Purolator spare parts
from approved wholesalers and appropriate
vehicle distributors.
the parts tested/ proven and chosen
by the manufacturer of YOUR car.
GENU IN E
BRAKE SPARES & FLUID
BORG e BECK
CLUTCH SPARES
;v'
FILTERS & ELEMENTS
steering Joints
><WfiX»>>XMXsv
BRITISH AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRIES PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
8A166/10.5
or ringbarking—and which is
allied with Mitchell - grass
country —in the main lies be-
tween Tambo and Blackall.
Some of the gidyea soils are
fertile. The modern technique
is to pull the stuff down with
two crawler-tractors and a
chain. The cost is about £1 an
acre, but the full effects of
putting-down pasture on
dragged-and-burnt gidyea-land
has yet to be assessed.
The Brigalow Empire
A ll this country has mainly
an under-20-inch rainfall,
but the greatest potential for
improvement and extension lies
in the vast belt of brigalow
which stretches through the
State northwards at levels up
to 1500 ft., normally on lower
slopes and foothills.
The main areas are in the
middle-west, stretching from
the Qoncurry line southwards
across the N.S.W. border and
from the Thomson headwaters
and the line of the Warrego
eastward to the 151st degree.
Most of this is 20-30 in.-rai-
nfall country, and brigalow is
unfortunately a boon com-
panion of prickly-pear, dense
areas of the two coinciding.
Pear-infested brigalow pre-
sents a costly nightmare
problem in development.
The tree is an acacia, grow-
ing on fertile soil for prefer-,
ence to about 60ft. high. It
suckers from the roots, form-
ing a dense clump, and on poor
country makes a dense mass of
whipsticks up to 15ft. high.
Fire only produces more in-
tense ■ suckering. The pre-
dominating brigalow soils are
heavy clay-loams, fertile but
with the mineral deficiencies
common to most interior Aus-
tralian soils.
There are about 23-million
acres in this relatively high-
rainfall area, about 15-million
acres of it undeveloped and the
rest only partially developed.
In his report W. L. Payne
pays a great deal of attention
to the reconditioning of the
brigaiow-belt, as well he might.
The Lands Department and
settlers have been wrestling in
an often losing battle with a
great proportion of it since
the Year One.
He recommends that in
future brigalow lands be made
available under a special sys-
stem —perpetual leases up to
5000 acres ; “brigalow leases”
from 5000 to 10,000 acres and
grazing or pastoral leases over
10,000 acres.
The first experiments in
clearing were made half-a-
century ago round Tara, south
(Continued on page 58)


Wool-textile Research
in Australia
By DR. M. UPSON.
Chief of Division of Textile Industry, C.5.1.R.0. Wool Research Laboratories, Geelong (Vic.).
research in
’ * Australia is carried out
by the three Wool Research
Laboratories of C.5.1.R.0. at
Sydney, Melbourne and Gee-
long (Vic.). The Division of
Textile Physics at Sydney is
concerned primarily with
fundamental research on the
physical properties of wool and
methods of processing; the
Division of Protein Chemistry
at Melbourne is engaged on
fundamental studies on the
chemistry of the wool fibre,
using a large range of modern
techniques ; the Division of
Textile Industry at’ Geelong is
mainly concerned with general
problems in wool-textile pro-
cessing and improvements in
wool from the wearer’s point
of view.
This article summarises' some
of the results to date in the
textile field. These findings
have mainly resulted from a
short-range attack on several
major problems in the industry.
In future it is likely that many
of the practical results obtained
will depend upon longer-range
fundamental research now
being carried out. Already
several practical findings have
emerged in this way—for
example, recent improvement
in the carbonising process for
removing burr or seed from
wool. Basic research at the
Division of Protein Chemistry
showed that certain of the new
synthetic detergents slowed-
down acid-attack on proteins.
A practical application of this
finding was seen in carbonising,
where the sulphuric-acid used
to remove the burr often
attacks the wool (which is a
protein). By adding certain
synthetic detergents to the acid-
solution used in carbonising,
it was possible to cut down the
wool - damage which takes
place. Industrial trials in
several mills* showed greater
yarn-strength and less wool-
waste where wool was treated
in this way. Australian car-
bonisers are now using this
method of protecting the wool
from acid-damage.
Another problem tackled
has been that of “tar”-stains in
wool. These were costing
industry something like £2mil.
a year in extra handling,
devaluation and claims.
After many years’ research,
involving field-experiments on
thousands of sheep followed by
extensive mill trials, a brand-
ing-fluid was evolved, which
remained legible on sheep for
a year and was removed in
normal processing.
This was called LBE (lanolin-
base-emulsion) branding-fluid.
It was widely used by wool-
growers, but had one disad-
vantage. If applied to wet
sheep or if rain fell immediat-
ely after branding, some of the
marking ran. Research to
overcome this weakness finally
led to development of Si-Ro-
Mark branding-fluid, which
can be applied under any con-
ditions of rainfall. The name
LBE was not a registered
trade-mark and was used on
several products which were
not officially approved. To
avoid this, Si-Ro-Mark has
been registered, and all manu-
factures of the fluid are re-
quired to submit samples for
C.5.1.R.0. approval and have
their plants inspected.
Most Australian sheep are
now branded with Si-Ro-Mark;
last season alone, about
112,000 gallons was marketed
by various firms. It has been
made in three colors—red, blue
and green ; a fourth color —
purple—is now available.
Si-Ro-Mark is usually re-
moved completely during
initial scouring. If conditions
of scouring are mild, traces of
the brand can remain, but these
are satisfactorily elimated in
subsequent mill-processes such
as carding, backwashing, and
piece- or yarn-scouring.
Although the “tar” problem
has now been reduced to in-
significant proportions, there is
still limited use of products
which can cause trouble in the
mill. Efforts are at present
being made to overcome this.
The provision of a fourth color
will help the situation, as, in
some areas, local branding-reg-
ulations have required the avail-
ability of four different colors.
As Si-Ro-Mark is not available
in black, other products have
been used. Purple Si-Ro-
Mark should now replace
these.
A pilot-plant for solvent-
degreasing raw wool, with an
hourly capacity of 6001 b.
greasy, has been constructed,
and large weights of wool have
now been processed on this for
test purposes. The work, which
is still in progress, has shown
substantial differences in mill-
performance between solvent-
degreased and normally
scoured wool. Solvent-de-
greased wool has yielded more
top and less noil than soap-
scoured wool when carded and
combed at identical produc-
tion-rates. It has also been
possible to card and comb
solvent-degreased wool at
greatly increased production-
rates, without reducing its
combing performance or
quality of the final top when
compared with ordinary
scoured wool, processed at the
usual production-rates. The
first full-scale unit has been in
operation in an Australian mill
for over a year. Arrangements
are in hand to have another
full-scale plant set up in Brad-
ford which will be available for
demonstration purposes; it is
hoped that the machine may be
operating later this year.
It was found in comparative
combing-trials between solvent-
degreased and soap-scoured
wool that results were variable,
owing to fluctations in the out-
put of the Noble comb. For
reliable comparison between
two wools in combing, it is
essential to have identical pro-
duction-rates off the comb.
This has led to development
of a simple electrical comb-
control-unit, which can be
fitted to existing Noble combs.
The unit does away with
manual control of the comb
and ensures steady production
at any set rate of output. The
first commercial model has now
been constructed and several
locally-made units should
soon be installed in Australian
mills. Arrangements are being
made for marketing the equip-
ment in other countries.
In recent years there has
been renewed interest in the
printing of wool-tops to give
mixture shades. A disadvantage
of older methods was the
lengthy times of steaming usu-
ally needed to fix color in the
wool. Experiments were
carried out to reduce this time
and it was found possible to
streamline the process by modi-
fying the conventional form-
ular of the
was an extension of research
originally carried out at Leeds
(Eng.) University on the effect
of certain solvents on increas-
ing the dye-uptake of wool. The
method is now in general use in
Australia and has also been
extended to other countries.
In mothproofing experi-
ments, using many products, it
was found that wool could be
effectively protected by treat-
ing with, small amounts of
one of the new insecticides
—dieldrin. This chemical has
been widely used in Australia
to treat parasites on sheep and
has also found extensive use in
other branches of agriculture.
In the mothproofing experi-
ments, it was found that only
faint traces of dieldrin were
needed in wool to protect it
against moths and carpet-
beetles. Laboratory trials were
folio wed-up by tests under mill
conditions, and as a result of
these a treatment was devel-
oped which now has wide
application in industry. The
dieldrin is usually added in the
mill as an emulsion to the last-
rinse liquor of the wool, which
can be in the form of fabric,
yarn, or top. About 21b.
dieldrin will treat a ton of
wool, so the process is cheap to
apply. Cost of treatment is
something like per lb. of
wool.
In the past three years most


Pnenovis' Brand of Phenothiazine
POSITIVE
fit Pi s
OTHER
PHENOTHIAZINES
IMPROVED
TYPE OF WORM
‘PHENOVIS’
94°/°
58%
72%
45%
87%
100%
88%
90%
76%
92%
Large Stomach Worm
Small Brown Stomach Worm
Hair Worm in Stomach
Black Scour Worm
Large-mouthed Bowel Worm
SUPtl*' MI
quaut*
i'.
B
BH ENOVJS
« RICO T RADI MARK »
PHE.MX.B7II
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
PROOF established by scientists at ICIANZ Merrindale
Research Station who compared individually 12 samples of
the new improved 'Phenovis' with 12 samples of other
Phenothiazine Drenches still on the Australian market.
These accurate comparisons expressed in percentages
below, illustrate the wider range efficiency of 'Phenovis'
against all major worms particularly against the more
serious Small Brown Stomach Worm and Black Scour
Worm.
Yes it's a fact that 1C I
'Phenovis' is the high-purity
Phenothiazine drench which
gives certain control of all
major intestinal worms in
all sheep.
should be developed between
research and the promotion-
campaign.
Many think, and rightly so,
that the complete publicity-
angle on wool cannot be
handled by one person, but
should be given to some
advertising-company operating
on a world-,wide level. Last,
but not least, comes the ques-
tion of money. Australian
woolgrowers are proud of their
achievements, but it is crazy
to think they can supply all the
money necessary to promote
and keep wool ahead of its
rival fibres. The future of wool,
as far as Australia is con-
cerned, is everybody’s business,
and if the woolgrower has to
increase his subsidy to pro-
motion, the Commonwealth
Government should come
forward in a like manner.
Australian mills have adopted
this method of mothproofing.
It has been approved by the
U.S. Department of Agriculture
after independent tests and
American mills have now
taken-up the process. Applica-
tion of dieldrin has also been
extended to Britain and Japan.
Wide industrial use in Australia
has shown the process to be
without harmful effects on
shade, handle or other desirable
properties of the wool.
Shrinkproofing of wool has
been a major research topic.
Some years ago a resin-treat-
ment developed for shrink-
proofing was applied to
a limited extent on socks. As
the cost of treatment was too
high for general acceptance,
other methods are now being
developed. Several lines are
being followed. In one
approach, the application of
resins is being extended to
develop cheaper methods
whilst, in the others, chemical
modification of the scale-
structure is the basis of treat-
ment. The latter, incidentally,
has been followed in other
countries, particularly Britain,
where the Wool Industries
Research Association and
several private firms have
developed effective methods.
Recently, research on per-
manent creasing of wool was
intensified, due mainly to the
development of such effects in
synthetics and the need for
similar results in pure wool.
The Si-Ro-Set process has
resulted from this research.
It consists of spraying the
trousers or skirts with Si-Ro-
Set solution, the active ingredi-
ent of which is a chemical
called ammonium-thioglycol-
late, followed by steaming on
a Hoffman press or in a steam-
box or autoclave.
The creases or pleats formed
in this way stand up extremely
well to normal wear, resisting
wetting such as rainfall. At
this stage, treated goods are
recommended for drycleaning
and not washing. In order to
obtain pleats which will satis-
factorily withstand washing, it
will be necessary to use a
fabric in which the shrink-
age properties have been
eliminated.
The Si-Ro-Set process has
been used in Australia
since late 1957, and so far
about three-quarters of a
million pairs of trousers have
been treated by various firms.
Its use has extended to
Britain, Europe, America and
Japan, where certain firms
have been licensed to sell the
approved solution. Practical
trials under a variety of wearer-
conditions have shown that the
method can be applied to most
types of worsted materials and
the treated’ garments behave
normally in all respects, except
that the creases or pleats are
more-or-less permanent. The
research is being extended
to combine the process with a
shrinkproofing treatment and
so obtain wash - and - wear
results for certain types of
pure-wool garments.


WOOLGROWERS
CONSIGN"
CONFIDENCE
TO THE
Consign wool, fat stock or station produce to the C.P.S., confident
that every phase of brokerage will be handled with the efficiency of
long experience. Buyers on clients’ behalf of store and stud stock,
station supplies and equipment, C.P.S. serve you best. For marketing
and merchandising advice, write or phone
the COUNTRY PRODUCERS
SELLING COMPANY LIMITED
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney Phone: BU 5101
11 Watt Street, Newcastle Phone: 84160
FOR
AIR
TRA VEL
THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD
Book through
BIRT & CO.
(PTY.) LIMITED
4 Bridge Street, Sydney
80529 B 0 5 2 9
also at . s
312-316 Elizabeth Street,
Brisbane,
and Port Kembla, N.S.W.
strange shearer ... You just
have to.
You watch the “dooks” of
every man in pub or cafe. If
the knuckles of the left hand
are heavily puffed you know
he is a “bogghi” (shearing
hand-piece) boy. You don't
approach him and say loudly,
“Looking for a pen, mate?”
He may be wearing elastic-side
boots, slacks and a hacking-
jacket. He looks like the presi-
dent of the local Graziers’
Association. He may be sensi -
tive ... You negotiate
slowly.
At half-past-ten you pick-up
“Chook” O’Bannion. He is
clean, fiftyish, sober, well
dressed, pork-pie with little
feather and all.
Over a couple of middies you
engage him to start at Brinda-
bella Peak on Monday morn-
ing. At one-o’clock he is still
clean, still fifty, but not so
sober. At six-o’clock that night
he is still fifty, not so clean, and
very, very drunk.
He is demonstrating imagin-
ary long blows kneeling on the
bar floor.
A young rousie has scroung-
ed the pub’s broom and is
sweeping-up the imaginary
locks and second-cuts. Chook
bites you for a spin, asserts his
love for you, and assures you
he will be there at the kick-off
on Monday morning.
' Half-an-hour later you
discover Chook is a notorious
“cull” —a grog-man of all time
and a big bunger-on of blues.
At ten that night the police
phone saying they have a
bloke there in the catching-pen
who says he works for you . . .
will you bail him out?
Next morning Chook arrives
at the in a taxi, bites you
for two-quid: “Gotta get a feed
into me, and I’ll need a bottle
of overproof to do me the
week.”
You tell him you’ll pick him
and his swag up at the pub at
two-o’clock.
At two-o’clock Chook is the
big-shot of the hotel lounge
and has sent the two fiddlies
off: “Met an old mate on the
track,” he tells you. “Slung
him thirty-bob”. No feed,
no rum. 1
You wake the terse publican
out of his Sunday-afternoon
nap to get the strong medicine.
The publican is even more
terse when he sees who the
grog is for . . . “Chook” that
morning had had a blue with
him, saying he wasn’t paying
for a breakfast he was too
crook to eat.
“Chook” demands stops 18
times in the 30 miles out ; it
takes him seven minutes to
open each gate ; and he bashes
your ear the whole way with
all the old tired cliches about
capitalism, squatters and work-
ing-men.
The pretty babbler has just
got the kindling crackling in
the stove as “Chook” staggers
into the kitchen and says,
“Woman cook, eh? Got to
put up with you for three weeks
eh?”
Then he asks: “Is there a
meat-house here, Cookie?”
Of course she answers inno-
cently. “Well,” says “Chook,”
“Get-to quickly and cook me
a mob of chops.”
She tears out to where you
are unloading stores, followed
by her enormous husband, and
says: “I'm used to working
with decent men . . . One more
crack out of that drunken bum
and Ron and me are pulling-
out . . . Get him out of the
kitchen!”
“Chook” is already out of
the kitchen, searching for his
week’s rum: “Just one little
nip, Boss . . . It’ll help me
camp-down.”
“Chook” gets about half the
bottle into him and passes out.
He wakes at 10-o’clock that
night when everyone is just
settling, and gets stuck into
it again, and starts a personal
corroboree —chanting and sing-
ing.
The cook sends Ron round
to say she can’t sleep ... If
“Chook” doesn’t pipe-down
she’ll pack-up and float.
“Chook” is under the
blankets, fully dressed —pork-
pie and all. You admonish him
very strongly—l mean, go for
him scone-hot. There is about
a third of the bottle left. So
that there will be more chance
of “Chook” “fronting” next
morning, you drink it.
Next morning you both have
. hangovers. “Chook's” is epic.
He’s as shaky as a willow-tree
in a willy-willy.
Under instructions, he
apologises to the cook: “Don't
remember a thing, Missus.
Sorry if I said anything out of
place, Missus.”
After breakfast the young
owner brings some utensils over
from his kitchen. The young
boss is not too flash a dresser.
That’s an understatement —
sometimes he looks like a
bit of a bagman, and “Chook,”
thinking he’s one of the mob,
announces: “I’m too crook to
shear. Why should I kill my-
self for some hungry, exploit-
ing cocky when I’m half-dead
with the ’flu?”
The young grazier comes
over to the shed and attacks
■ you: “You promised me a
a sober team of shearers ...
one shearer just abused me.”
You explain, and implore him
to put on a tie.
There has been a little
shower of rain on the hoggets,
and the shearers intend to take
a vote on them. “Chock”
makes the shed, just, and it
takes him an hour to load-up
and draw for pens. “Chook,”
a chronic “wet”-voter any time,
is a write - your - own - ticket
certainty to vote “wet” this
morning.
He is doing some heavy
propaganda, too, about the
dangers of shearing wet sheep:
“You get crippled-up at forty,
o Continued on page 59)


r. Wolseley's
First Machine,
7886.
M
'mr/#
Another Ist!
WOLSELEY OVERHEAD GEAR
WITH UNIQUE DRIVING
ASSEMBLY SUITABLE FOR
SUBSEQUENT ELECTRICAL
CONVERSION
Owners can now buy with an eye to the
future and save money. This new
development of the Wolseley Company
enables a grazier who will eventually
come into the electricity grid to equip
with Wolseley Overhead Gear now,
and convert
it later. A
specially
designed
Wolseley
electric
motor and
bracket
arm is fit-
ted to drive
the friction
assembly.
.c-
IT'S A HAPPY RETURN—
ON YOUR WOOL CHEQUE, TOO, WHEN YOU USE
SHEEP SHEARING GEAR -
now made in Australia
Ist
1888 In 1877, F. Y. Wolseley invented
the sheep shearing machine and, after many years of careful study
and experiments, the first trial of this equipment took place at
Euroka Station, near Walgett, in 1886, and was pronounced an
unqualified success. The first successful shearing by mechanical means
took place at Dunlop Station in 1888 with Wolseley machines. At the
Melbourne Show of 1890, a prize of £5O was given for a shearing competition.
Several machines were entered, the competition being won by Wolseley,
"The Argus" reporting —"The work done by the Wolseley machine was
immensely superior indeed, if would be impossible to see sheep better
shorn."
If those words were true in 1890, they are more so today. The Wolseley Co.
is still the leader in shearing machine design, both electrical and mechanical.
The name WOLSELEY is synonymous with quality and fine workmanship. No
other firm can claim to have had such a long and successful association
with the shearing industry.
Today's shearing principles were pioneered by the Wolseley Company and it
can proudly be said that four out of the five features in the original patent
remain absolutely fundamental in all shearing machines to the present day.
iSI —Wolseley returns to Australia
with a new feature-proven machine one as exciting as must have been
the first model featuring the
Wolseley "Gun" Shearing Handpiece.
This is the latest design, fastest
cutting, oil-bath back-joint type hand-
piece with the most comfortable of
grips.
gp jpFr # m
WOLSELEY Belt Driven Overhead Gear for Electrical Conversion.
WOLSELEY Electric Overhead Shearing Gear.
WOLSELEY “Gun" Handpiece with specially designed Corrib and Cutter.
THE WOLSELEY SHEEP SHEARING MACHINE CO. PTY. LTD.
ENDEAVOUR HOUSE, MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY. PHONE BU 4436
DISTRIBUTORS: BALTIC SIMPLEX MACHINERY CO. LIMITED
N.S.W.: 608/614 HARRIS ST., ULTIMO (PHONE BA 2538)
VIC.: 210/220 HALL ST., SPOTSWOOD (PHONE ML 2541 5 lines)
Showroom, 446 Flinders St., Melbourne (Phone MB 4801)
OLD.: 115/117 MERIVALE ST., STH. BRISBANE (PHONE 4.5338)
See Wolseley on display at our stand during the Sydney Sheep Show,
May 27 to June 3.
PIONEERS OF SHEEP SHEARING EQUIPMENT SINCE ISBB
Please send me the booklet: " T he Wolseley Story."
Name ;
Address
IF FOR SCHOOL PROJECT, TICK HERE q ws| pp


REG. MERINO STUD No. 79
Established 1864 with 5000 stud ewes from Wanganella. Purchased by
Charles Mills in 1876.
These magnificent Merino sires are some of the team of 44 Uardry rams to
be offered on June 1 st and 2nd at the Sydney Ram Sales.
£
■
f'
V
• 5 SPECIAL STUD RAMS and 25 STUD RAMS
are in the Catalogue of Dalgety & Co., Ltd.
• A.M.L. &F. Co., Ltd., will offer 14 selected rams
(in pens of two.)
INSPECT THESE RAMS WITH A VIEW TO BUYING AND
YOU WILL SEE WHY 130 STUDMASTERS HAVE PREFERRED
TO USE UARDRY SIRES.
Bred by:—
CHARLES MILLS UIARDRY) PTY. LTD., HAY, N.S.W.
of the Roma-Miles area. Ring-
barking then cost ss. to Bs. an
acre, but now costs up to
275. 6d. an acre—if any toiler
can be found who will con-
descend to ringbark.
Modern Methods
TPoday the crawler-tractor is
■*- the main weapon used
against brigalow, costing up to
£2 an acre to operate. Destruc-
tion of the timber is followed
by sowing with suitable
grasses. Aerial spraying of
virgin brigalow with hormones,
followed by burning-off of the
dead timber, has not been 100
per cent, successful, and is as
yet more costly than tractor-
dragging.
However, in the sheepbelt,
brigalow country can be, even
under present conditions,
sheep-to-two-acre country, but
calls for vast outlays to con-
dition it for payable wool-rais-
ing.
Mr. Payne cites an area of
8300 acres in the Goondiwindi
district selected as a prickly-
pear development - grazing
homestead in 1935, but its de-
velopment was held up by the
war.
The improvements put on to
it consist of five bores, costing
£7500; dams and tanks and
accessories, another £3OOO ;
timber clearing by ring-bark-
ing, subsequent pulling and
“flogging” of suckers with
wethers, only shade lines being
left, £24,000; fencing of 20
paddocks and the boundary,
£14,900; cultivation of 1032
acres, £5160; buildings, and a
laboratory occupied and
partly paid for by the Univer-
sity of Queensland, £23,000;
electrical plant, roads, grids,
etc., £5200; implements
£11,700.
The total was £94,000, and
the outlay is not complete. The
lessee plans to spend another
£20,000 for cultivation and
pasture - improvement. The
area carries about a sheep to
two acres, plus 400 cattle.
Over the border in N.S.W.
this is not regarded as heavy-
carrying brigalow country —
some contiguous to the Goon-
diwindi country in the Mother
State has maintained better
than a sheep to the acre over
a number of years, which is
about sixfold the carrying-
capacity of native pastures.
Mr. Payne says that the
“potential of brigalow country
has passed well beyond the
the stage of conjecture and
expectation”—even with a £lO-
- improvement-cost im-
perative.
He gives a standard instance
of a Tara settler on a pioneer
selection taken-up 50 years
ago as green brigalow scrub
(2585 acres). It runs 1400 sheep
in all seasons with 400 lambs,
bringing the stocking up to
1800 over Christmas. The
owner, with some crop and
ensilage, has “never had to
feed dry sheep,” but only
breeding-ewes in a drought.
In the recent severe 1957-8
drought only 30 sheep were
lost and 200 lambs taken-off
their mothers for feeding.
The owner’s income last year
was £4OOO ; before that “con-
siderably more.” He thinks
that on the basis pf present
high costs —his land, of course,
was comparatively cheap-
three 1280-acre blocks would
be the maximum necessary to
provide a good living if
efficiently run and not either
over- or under-stocked.
Another area near Goon-
diwindi was cited —3100 acres
of cleared brigalow land on
which the total taxable income
earned in the 25 years 1934-58
was £81,250, income-taxes paid
£33,275, average taxable in-
come £3260. Over the past
decade the average was a little
over £6600.
A National Challenge
TPhe whole of this great virgin
area is a challenge to capi-
tal and national enterprise. The


Be assured of
SUCCESSFUL
YIELD
every year!
/ .•*
T}E ASSURED of a successful yield this year, and every year—irrespective
what the elements may bring. Know with absolute certainty and
accuracy what that yield will be, and when it will be received. Put your idle
money to work, earning a guaranteed interest yield in National Bank Interest
Bearing Deposits, available from 3 months to 2 years.
Throughout Australia, men on the land favour these Deposits because they
ensure that their money is not tied up for longer than need be. They also
enable them to maintain interest-bearing reserves which are immediately
available in cases of urgent need. There is no safer investment, with a guar-
anteed income and return of capital, unaffected by market fluctuations.
Monthly Summary
of Australian
Conditions.
—including regular notes
on your rural industry
available at any Brancii
or post free.
If you have money lying idle discuss this safe ,
convenient, profitable way of investment with
the Manager of your nearest National Bank.
NATIONAL BANK
n'twrmi Mmmm jjfi
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED (INC. IN VIC.)
5204/74/57
and you're no good to a woman
same age.”
The young blokes are quite
impressed ; but, despite this in-
sidious propaganda, and with-
out manipulation, you get a
“dry” vote . . . Shear on!
An hour later one of the
young shearers breaks out in
a rash. -The others finish their
sheep and gather round. “See,”
cries “Chook” triumphantly;
“that's what comes from shear-
ing wet sheep . . . Send you
blind, too!”
The shearers have a “swarm”
(meeting), and want another
vote. They “vote ’em out” . . .
wet.
At the weekend the same
shearer, playing tennis (it was
a hot day), develops the same
rash!
“Chook” comes to you at
night and says: “Some ’s
got down on me rum I
planted in the grass under me
hut. Only a couple of nips out
of it, too.”
Being a weak character, you
hit him with a beaut out of
your meagre, rationed supply,
and you have to \yet-nurse him
all the week after work.
By Friday afternoon
“Chook” has shorn enough
sheep to be out of your debt,
and you’ve landed a bloke you
know to start Monday.
As you are shoving some
frisky weaners into “Chook's”
catching-pen one of them leaps
through straight on to “Chook”
—who is going up the neck —
knocking the hand-piece out of
his hand and cutting his arm
pretty badly. It’s a big stitch-
job in town. The owner rushs
him in.
It’s not true that that weaner
was propelled through the door
by two feet!
That night you meet
“Chook” in town to settle-up.
After deducting his “bites,”
tucker-bill, grog-bill and pub-
bill, “Chook” has just enough
left for a decent shout. . .
Wpolaway Shearing Service
is over its first crisis, the local
chemists are out of sedatives,
and you realise how wrong you
were about shearing-con-
tractors.
Payne Report recommends
loans up to £15,000, with re-
payments over 25 years, in-
terest only for the first five
years—this in relation to 3500-
4500-acre blocks.
The conditioning of this vast
interior area of acacia country
seems a vital need for the Com-
monwealth, since it would not
only perhaps double Queens-
land fine - wool production,
but absorb much rural popula-
tion and be of immense im-
portance to secondary manu-
facturing industries.
Of the £94,000 -spent on the
8000-acre Goondiwindi block
mentioned earlier, at least three-
quarters went into fencing,
buildings, facilities and imple-
ments and vehicles, with neces-
sary labor. The cost of im-
plements'alone worked out at
£1 10s. per acre.
The vast problem needs
technological thinking by the
Governments involved —mark
that the land is Crown land —
comparable with that which
brought the Snowy River
Scheme to fruition.
It would not be too much
to suggest that an engineer-
ing and grazier panel, headed
by the imaginative Payne him-
self, who has reduced the blue-
print of Queensland pastoral
and agricultural lands to
systematic order and clarity,
should be appointed to make a
large-scale settlement - plan
which would cover not merely
interior Queensland but the rest
of Australia’s arid and semi-
arid areas which are equivalent
to several huge kingdoms.
These once seemed hopeless
desert. Modern technology has
utterly altered the view of their
potentialities.


Express Cargo Service t 0...
EUROPE, FAR EAST, U.S.A. and CANADA
'M
mm
Mi
Hill
Hill
\
mm
{ /
vm.
v
mmm:
¥SK<W:'
JW
MM*
11=
Regular service to
tWHdcll&WJfcljNhe lalnfeent and Scandinavia.
Refrigerated as well as general cargo space avail-
able. Limited first-class passenger accommodation
available in double or single-deck cabins.
sAMSTRAHAiWiSSonfACIUiIfi,
ports —returning via Shanghai, North Borneo,
New Guinea and Island ports. Regular sailings
by Milos, Delos, Aros and Citos with general and
refrigerated space available; also special mechani-
cal ventilation for fruit, vegetables, etc., in ’tween
decks. Luxurious passenger accommodation in
single- or two-berth cabins.
sANHIHQAMm Vessels from
Australia to U.S. and Canadian Atlantic Coast
ports, and Trinidad via Panama Canal. Vessels
carry a limited number of passengers in saloon
accommodation.
A
And for the finest in Air travel
ING
’XARAYELLt"
INEI
For full details on any of the above services contact • • •
SAS introduces the “40 minute travel hour” with new CARAVELLE
jetliners and cuts flying time by a third. SAS now serves more cities by pure jet
than any other airline. Book now! Fly SAS over the Pole or around the world.
GG PITT ST., SYDNEY. BU 6.3 01
51 WILLIAM ST.. MELBOURNE. MA 3031


PRODUCTION-RECORDS AND BREEDING
By DR. E. M. ROBERTS.
Officer-in-charge, Flock Testing Service, School of Wool Technology, The
University of New South Wales.
“t>reeders say they know
hpw to breed from prac-
tical experience and produce
the best-quality rams for their
clients. I take it they agree
that the best sheep are those
which will produce the most
money in the client’s area.
“They also maintain they
can pick constitution, frame,
breed character-type, bone-
size as well as wool-covering.
I presume that all this is then
taken into account to size-up
whether the sheep is a good
one in order to produce a sheep
cutting an increased return.
“This seems a rather, long
way round to me, and, with
due regard to classers, a little
prone to error. Let anyone
who feels he is endowed with
a special gift for selecting the
highest producers class his
maiden ewes and then have
them shorn and flock-tested.
The inefficiency will be
apparent to even the most con-
firmed exponent of visual class-
ing.
“Why not breed from the
higher-money-producing sheep?
With certain restrictions, I
don’t think it matters much
why a sheep produces a lot;
the main thing is to judge him
on performance in his own
particular environment and
make sure the accuracy of
judging or classing is at a
maximum. With flock-testing
a breeder can safely say he
has culled his lowest-pro-
ducers.”
This introduction has been
phrased by a practical Aus-‘
tralian Merino-breeder whose
commonsense approach to
sheep-classing is followed by
the work of the Flock Testing
Section. He crystallises the
relative importance of produc-
tion, in relation to the factors
which comprise the product,
and emphasises that a logical
approach is to select for pro-
duction initially and then to
take note of any restrictions
, on the accepted traits, such as
type, constitution, conforma-
tion, etc.
This philosophy is also the
One held by the Flock Testing
Section, which has been
attempting, since 1953, to bring
accurate methods of Merino-
sheepclassing and -culling to
stud-breeders and wool-pro-
ducers in N.S.W.
It has never been suggested
that the fleece-measurement
methods advocated by flock-
testing should do away with
normal classing; rather they
are to be used as an aid to
make it more accurate and the
combination of the two will
produce the optimum type of
Merino sheep.
With this aim the service has
now been brought to 14 out
of the 16 parent studs in
N.S.W., which by virtue of
their family status control the
rate of wool-improvement in
Merino sheep in the Common-
wealth.
In addition to the parent
studs there is a considerable
group of important daughter
and general studs, often as large
as the parent studs and hence
very important in disseminat-
ing improved breeding-stock.
A big proportion of these
in N.S.W. are also co-operat-
ing with the work of the sec-
tion. The initial period of co-
operation entails convincing
those concerned of the practic-
ability of the methods of fleece-
weighing and appraisal, and
the practical use of the test
reports which are returned to
the stud-master or wool-pro-
ducer after shearing.
This period of consolidation
usually takes two to three
years, at the end of which time
it has been found appropriate,
through the co-operation of
breeders, to establish a number
of production-trials in which
sires of outstanding merit
(merit sires) are mated and
their progeny compared at 18-
month-shearing with any other
progeny “which may be put
up against them.” These merit
sires must satisfy the criteria
of not only being outstanding
for wool-production but also
heing outstanding for normal
commercial Merino-type as is
determined by reputable stud-
classers.
A considerable number of
these trials are now in opera-
tion, and their importance is
confirmed by the support of
the Wool Research Committee,
which has seen fit to guarantee
their performance for the next
three years at an annual rate
of £lO,OOO a year.
As has always been the case
in the history of the Australian
Merino-stud industry, progres-
sive breeders have been quick
to realise the commonsense of
using production-records as an
“What did I tell you this morning!”
aid to their sheepbreeding,
and a number have initiated
breeding-trials prior to those
which have been commenced
under the direct supervision of
the Flock Testing Service. One
large N.S.W. Merino stud sell-
ing annually about 1000
medium-wool rams has found
that seven merit sires selected
with the assistance of the Flock
Testing Service and mated to
similar breeding-ewes as the
remainder of the station sires,
produced offspring superior in
two important respects,
namely:
(1) With respect to wool-
production the ewe-offspring
of these matings were classed,
with 10-months’ wool at about
18-months’ of age, into double-
stud, general and cull groups.
Following this normal classing,
further flock - testing was
applied to the double-studs,
dividing them into specials and
the remainder of the double-
studs. The three top groups
of young ewes were shorn,
averaging respectively 11.41 b.,
9.81 b. and 9.11 b. greasy-wool
per head (the culls were not
shorn).
• The seven merit sires pro-
duced ewe-offspring of which
28 p.c. went into the heaviest-
cutting group, 27 p.c. into the
next group, and 30 p.c. into
the third group.
The remaining sires not
selected with reference to pro-
duction-records produced 10
p.c. in the heaviest group, 21
p.c. in the second group and
46 p.c. in the third group. This
practical commercial trial in-
dicates the importance of
selecting, accurately, heavy-
producing rams if higher pro-
portions of heavy-cutting ewes
are desired.
(2) With respect to type, it
is extremely interesting to be
told that the three groups of
young ewes for which average
fleece-weights were listed above
were in fact the special, double-
stud and general selections of
the stud-classer.
It is apparent, therefore,
that, by combining flock-testing
for measured production with
normal classing for Merino-
type, improved cuts of wool
and type have been obtained
in the offspring of the merit
sires selected by this stud. It
is confidently expected that
both further trials of this
nature by studmasters and the
trials initiated by the Flock
Testing Section for merit sires
will produce similar results
confirming the importance in
our Merino industry of accu-
rate classing and culling for
measured production.


ms
i
mm
all
DP*
m
■
11
m
m
Steel-wood-steel members give unequalled
structural strength and simplicity in construction!
Bowas is the world’s strongest, most versatile frame-
work the perfect building material for shearers’
quarters, cottages and homesteads. The Bowas prin-
ciple (cypress pine held rigid on both sides by mild
steel members up to £in. thick) provides a framework
(surpassed only by brick) of immense strength. Only
Bowas allows future alterations to be made without
major alterations, and only Bowas can be completely
dismantled, then re-erected without damage to the
framework. ,
Bowas framework will not warp or twist; is not
affected by shrinkage, dry rot, white ants, gum veins,
etc. This is why Bowas quality pays off in the long
run, costs practically nothing in maintenance and very
little in depreciation holds its value years longer
than any other comparable structure. Erection of any
building, from a large homestead to small cottages,
takes less time than any other normal structure.
Bowas is the modern way to build permanently for
the years ahead!
IIAHIIIIiIiIIIUIDIVnTT]
mm
JUilßlMllillliii
1
f 4, t
BOWAS SHEARERS' QUARTERS
€1 Patented, “wood and steel ” building units
0 Easily erected—easily dismantled
9 Strong, rigid, durable—free from dry rot, white
ants, etc.
£ Exterior and interior Wall coverings nailed on
as in timber-frame construction
9 Designs conform to Rural Workers’ Accom-
modation Act
t
SEND THIS
COUPON
NOWI
BOWAS CONSTRUCTIONS LIMITED
Williams Parade (off Constitution Road), Dulwich Hill, N.S.W.
LM 5204 - 7886. Railway Parade, Rocklea, Queensland. JU 1692.
Please forward, without obligation or cost, the illustrated folder showing the
advantages and uses of the Bowas patented wood and steel construction principle.
NAME . ....
ADDRESS
STATE


DIAMOND JUBILEE
SYDNEY SHEEP SHOW
Commencing May 27 Ending May 30
ANNUAL STUD MERINO SHEEP SALES
Commencing June 1 Ending June 3
Record NUMBER 1,800 sheep on view— from N.S.W., Queens-
land, Tasmania, Victoria, South Australia.
RECORD ENTRY 200 Australian Fleeces.
WOOL DISPLAY in Arts and
Crafts Pavilion. Exhibitions by 60
manufacturers.
MANNEQUIN PARADES
throughout the Sheep Show.
INTERNATIONAL FLEECE
COMPETITION. Fleeces from
Argentina, Australia, South Africa
and New Zealand.
SHEEP DOG TRIALS every day.
x 140 sheep dogs from Australia and
New Zealand will compete for record
trophies and £550 cash.
CAT SHOW will be held on
May 30.
DOG SHOW. with cattle dogs,
border collies and kelpies.
ALL NATIONS WOOL DIS-
PLAY conducted by the Australian
Wool Bureau in the Anthony Hordern
& Sons Pavilion. Feature will be
national costumes and other articles,
representative of the various countries
participating.
POULTRY SHOW will be held on
May 29 - May 30.
REDUCED PRICES
Adults 4/-, Children 1/-
Season tickets for car and driver, £l.
Car only, 10/-.
FREE ADMISSION, parties of school
children accompanied by teacher.
NEW SOUTH WALES SHEEPBREEDERS 1 ASSOCIATION
BBS
been moved into a new
paddock which had been
spelled for a month. In a good
season one can always spell
paddocks, and stomach-worms
are always worst in a good
season —like grass, they de-
pend on rain to multiply.
The rainfall-chart for Col-
larenebri (north - western
N.S.W.) shows that this year
sheep should have been drench-
ed about January 22, Feb-
ruary 10, March 3 and March
25. One can be certain that
very few sheep were .drenched
like this. It is a fact that in
March many lambs died from
stomach-worm disease and
most of the remainder were
sick.
Dirranbandi (Q.) is only
about 100 miles north of Col-
larenebri. This area had much
less rain, and one or two
drenches would have controlled
the stomach-worm. In March
the sheep which had not been
drenched were not obviously
sick, but were heavily infested
and suffering from the effects
of the worms.
The drenches which should
form the basis of stomach-worm
confrol in the western area are
bluestone-arsenic and pheno-
thiazine. Bluestone-arsenic is
best for routine control-work,
because it is cheap ; phenothi-
azine should be used only when
the disease starts to get out of
control, because, though highly
effective, it is costly. Pheno-
thiazine should however, be
used as a routine drench in
May,
Bluestone-arsenic costs about
£1 a thousand for drenching,
while phenothiazine costs at
least £25 a thousand. Therefore
this year at Collarenebri
drenching from lanuary to
March with bluestone-arsenic
would have cost £4 a thousand,
or a penny a head, using labor
which is usually available on
the property anyway—not a
high price to pay for disease-
control.
There are other factors be-
sides rainfall to consider in the
control of stomach-worm
disease. Perhaps the most im-
portant are the effects of water
and high grass causing sheep to
congregate on small areas.
In any good season grass
tends to restrict movement of
sheep. They will eat into an
area and stay where the grass is
short. The same thing hap-
pens, and is more obvious, when
flooding restricts sheep to non-
flooded areas. These factors
are not easy to control, but
steps could be taken on most
properties to get the weaners
out of paddocks subject to
severe floodings and to use
cattle to control grass-growth
for sheep.
Serious consideration should
be given to the use of cattle on
sheep-properties. Perhaps their
value as a direct source of
income as well as their role in
grass-control for sheep would
more than compensate for the
damage they do to drains and
open ground-tanks and the fact
that better fences are needed
to hold them.
One not inconsiderable
factor which results in poor
control of controllable diseases
is that graziers and stock-
owners generally depend too
much on the advice with which
they are bombarded through
the radio and printing-press—
including articles like this one
—and use this propaganda as
a substitute for the advice of
a veterinary-surgeon on the
property itself. For good
animal - management, disease-
control programmes should be
tailor-made to meet the precise
needs of individual properties.
It is only by the constant
guidance of your own veterin-
ary-surgeon, who knows the
property and its problems in-
timately, that the most efficient
methods of animal-production
can be developed and main-
tained.
In these days every grazier
has access to a veterinary-
surgeon who will personally
guide his disease-control pro-
grammes as well as helping
with other general problems
of livestock-production. These
consultants should be used to
get the maximum return from
your stock.
I COULD NOT SLEEP
I counted sheep;
And, as they passed,
Each one l classed,
The Dor sets, Romneys, Corrie-
dales, Merinoes;
A nd paddocks found
The whole year round
For all flock-rams,
For ewes and lambs,
For gummies, four-tooths, full-
mouths, wethers, weaners.
I watched them grow;
With toil and woe
1 jetted, dipped, marked,
m ules e d, drenched,
crutched and shore them ;
I planned ahead,
As more I bred,
For better fleeces, built new
sheds to store them
Till prices rose;
Concerned with those,
1 was still yawning
At day’s first dawning ...
Because l counted*sheep!
Vic.
SHEEP-MUG.


In wool pooling, consignments of wool
from thousands of growers are classed
and wools of the same type are matched
for sale under the Grazcos brand.
Only those wools with identical
characteristics are grouped together;
every pound of wool receives individual
attention from skilled classers working
under expert supervision.
Grazcos has been classing and pool-
ing wool for 35 years. The Grazcos
brand stands for uniform quality in every
line of pooled wool. It is sought by
buyers because, sale after sale, Grazcos
lines represent standard types of wool in
the big lots they favour.
When small clips are classed in the
shed, it is often difficult to provide
sufficient lines to cover the various types
of wool shorn from the flock, and, at the
same time, to make the lines big enough
to attract the best competition from
buyers. Pooling overcomes this problem.
Pooling is the ideal way to market the
oddments of wool from clips of all sizes.
GRAZCOS CENTRAL
CLASSING SERVICE
for
CLASSING COMPLETE CLIPS
and
CLASSING and POOLING:-
• Smaller Clips • Wool from Lamb
and Stragglers Shearings
• Crutchings and Oddments
k
2**
WvXK'x
¥-::,x
CONSIGN YOUR WOOL TO
ft
%
w.
r«4
'don’t worry— l’m sending
IT TO GRAZCOS”
GRAZCOS
CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED
SYDNEY • NEWCASTLE • BRISBANE
Head Office: 46 YOUNG STREET. SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES COUNTRY BRANCH OFFICES:
ARMIDALE, BOURKE, DUBBO, MOREE, QUEANBEYAN, YOUNG
GRAZCOS—THE WOOLGROWERS OWN CO-OPERATIVE ORGANISATION


NATURE'S "MIRACLE FIBRE"
By GERDA BREWER,
Buyer for knitting-wools, David Jones, Ltd.
At this time, when synthetic
“miracle fibres” are receiv-
ing so much publicity here and
abroad, Australians should
remember that Nature got
there first with wool, which
has had centuries of use
behind it to prove its claims.
The slogan “No substitute
for wool” is badly in need of
darning,, but still remain the
truth. Synthetics have an im-
portant place in modern tex-
tiles, but Australians should
always bear in mind that their
country’s entire prosperity
depends on wool, and also that
wool has unique qualities.
Of all textiles used for
clothing, wool is the only
major “live” fibre. When worn,
it conforms to the body with
the comfort of a skin, which is
the main secret of its warmth-
giving property. And there’s
no secret about its versatility.
With synthetics growing in
pressure and competition, we
must encourage and instruct
our young people in using
wool. A survey of home-
science, schools and colleges
shows r that hand-knitting is
almost always included in the
curriculum. After school-age,
the biggest factor in maintain-
ing an interest in hand-knitting
is the “fashion angle,” ade-
quately catered for in women’s
magazines and the knitting-
books available from local
sources or imported.
What is not catered for,
though, is proper instruction
in making-up and finishing
hand-knitted garments and
their after-care (laundering,
pressing, etc.), without which
knowledge many otherwise
perfect hand-knitted garments
have been ruined. Publicity by
knitting-wool manufacturers,
with co-operation from the
makers of special soaps and
detergents, would help prevent
this. So would practical TV-
demonstrations of how a
hand-knitted garment should
be made-up and pressed,
washed and dried. Such
demonstrations could be given
in four sessions—ending with
a mannequin wearing the
garment properly made-up,
pressed, laundered and dried.
Like our woollen-textile
manufacturers, A u s tr a 1 i a’s
hand-knitters compare favor-
ably with those of other
countries; but they, have not
yet learned the skill of making-
up and pressing, which finally
produces an attractive garment.
These weaknesses could be
eliminated by proper teaching
and demonstration ; and pride
of achievement will stimulate
the production of more hand-
knitted garments and increase
the sale of knitting-wools.
At present the Australian
hand-knitter averages three
garments a year. Leaving
failures out of account, it
would be fair to assume at
least a 50 per cent, increase in
the number of garments. To
buy wool and knit a garment,
by machine or by hand, costs,
after all, only about a third as
much as a ready-made gar-
ment.
From a retail angle the
average customer recognises
good-quality wool, both in
stock-varieties and in the
“novelties” which come to
hand each season.
Australian knitting - wool
manufacturers can certainly
hold their own with overseas
producers. Except for certain
fancy yarns, which cost more,
the Australian product is just
as good' as the imported.
An interesting sidelight is
that our range and quality of
knitting-wools always excite
American women tourists, who
buy them possibly more freely
than souvenirs! Knitting-wools
are not sold in American
shops on the Australian scale.
In fact, David Jones’ mail-
order department often re-
ceives orders from the Ameri-
can women who have visited
Australia or been given pre-
sents of Australian knitting-
wool.
Some Australian manufac-
turers seem to think that wide
color-ranges (extending up to
70 individual shades) will in-
crease the popularity of their
knitting-wools ; but this is not
so. The customer is merely
confused by an excessive range
of shades, which make her
choice harder. With a wide
color-range, the retailer’s sales-
women have to spend more
time with each customer while
she chooses —and this increases
costs. Knitting-wool manu-
facturers should establish
attractive color-ranges of less
variety. Present variations are
“Take my advice—give them cigarettes away, boy!
You re just flirting with death!"
often sq slight many of them
wouldn’t be missed.
All knitting - wool - spinners
should also make permanent
mothproofing a standard prac-
tice. Today some European
knitting-yarns bear the label
“permanently mothproofed,”
yet they handle wonderfully
well and have certainly lost
nothing from the mothproofing
process.
There remains the threat of
synthetics—a shibboleth re-
peated ad nauseam. In fact,
synthetics have become part of
our way of life ; women de-
mand easy-care nylon stock-
ings, gloves and underwear,
which can be laundered in a
quarter the previous time
without ironing. At the same
time, suits, coats, dresses, etc.,
made from 100 per cent,
synthetic yarns have not the
same appeal, feel or finish as
a pure-woollen garment. They
never hang or drape in quite
the same way, in spite of all
the claims made for them.
Combinations of pure wool
and nylon has proved success-
ful for knitting-yarns, where
the content is 80. per cent,
wool and 20 per cent, nylon.
Australian knitting-yarns of
that specification are in great
demand. But sweaters and
twin-sets made from 100 per
cent, synthetic yarns, though
popular, soil quicker than pure
woollen garments, need wash-
ing more often and miss the
appearance and comfort of
wool in cold or wet weather.
Children must be taught the
importance of wool to them-
selves and their country and
learn a general view of the
relative value of synthetic
fibres. A British textile expert,
Dr. A. Caress (chairman of
the Fibres Division of 1.C.1.),
says: “It is extremely difficult
to imagine that all the extra-
ordinary properties of wool
could be simulated in a syn-
thetic fibre. We spent £2-
million sterling on one protein-
fibre alone, which we hoped
would come close to the mark.
B.ut we had to admit defeat
and give it away.”
Experiments to find a true
counterpart for wool are going
on throughout the world.
Scientisfs are trying to inject
“life” into dead, man-made
fibres. But until they find one,
there is “no substitute for
wool,” in which Nature has
already worked the miracle.
Let’s publicise that fact. If
the quantity of wool knitted at
home could alone be increased
by the 50 per cent. I suggested
earlier, how greatly Australia’s
economy would benefit!


More and Better Wool
By A. R. BEGGS
President, Victorian Merino Stud Breeders’ Association."
Oheepbreeding and wool-
promotion are two Very
closely correlated words to-
day. The whole future of the
woolgrower lies in the success-
ful promotion of his product
against the forces on the syn-
thetic side, which are basking
in the glory of their own
success in promotion.
During the last twelve or
fifteen years breeders have
complacently sheltered behind
slogans like: “There is no sub-
stitute for wool.” The war
showed what scientists could
do, and also proved that any
goal was within reach, if you
could catch the public imagi-
nation. “Something really
new” was offered —a synthetic
fibre which would make-up
into a garment for which the
most elaborate claims were
made.
I don’t wish to convey the
thought that the recent slump
in wool-values has been
brought about solely by the in-
roads of man-made fibres.
There are probably several
causes—foremost, the tighten-
ing of world credit and a
temporary reduction in the
general demand for garments.
This means that we must
maintain and improve wool’s
position as a textile and so
command a greater share of
the market.
It may yet prove that this
recession in the price of wool
and the falling-off of demand
for Woollen fabrics has been
timely. It may have brought
home to all those interested in
wool-: —and every Australian
must be vitally interested in
wool—the realisation that
unless promotion is put into
top-gear we may not get
another chance to put it back
in its position as the world’s
top fibre. I hope that those
charged with the promotion
of wool will use every effort
to place the virtues of wool
before the public.
As scientists discover
methods and processes to over-
come the disabilities of wool,
its popularity must increase.
Already the scientific worker
has given us mothproofing,
shrinkproofing and permanent-
creasing. These are being fol-
lowed by new and better pro-
cessing methods which will be
of great assistance to the manu-
facturer.
Apart from the promotion
of wool, the breeder need not
stand by until the scientist and
p.-r. man haye done their duty,
if he is to reap the benefit of
keen demand and payable
prices.
If our whole wool-clip was
already perfect this might be
so, but I think most of us
realise that the clip is far from
perfect. A wonderful sheep-
growing country like Australia,
which produces so much good
wool, also sends to the market
much of inferior quality, partly
because of bad breeding, partly
because much is badly grown,
since the nutrition of the sheep
is out of balance.
In this country, where scien-
tists have given us so much
knowledge, which can ue
obtained either from the
various institutions or by per-
sonal contact, it’s a question
why we are not doirlg better.
Our opponents
every opportunity.
At the base of an increased
production of wool in quan-
tity and quality stands the
stud-breeders, to whom Aus-
tralia owes much for the skill
and money they have put into
the industry. They have a
hard task. Consider the differ-
ence in environment and
climate between the north of
Australia and Tasmania.
Sheep are bred in such condi-
tions for a specific purpose and
should not be taken to an area
to which they are not suited.
Buyers should use only rams
which will improve their flocks
—not only superior, but also
not liable to upset their present
breeding-programme by pro-
ducing a wide variety of types.
Stud-breeders of significance
have bred their studs within
themselves for a century, try-
ing experimental outcrosses
sometimes, but not retaining
sheep unless some special bene-
fit is derived from them. The
most successful flock-breeders
have always followed this
policy and, because of it, they
market a superior wool-clip
each year.
Stud-breeders deserve com-
mendation for their efforts.
Can you imagine what would
happen it they were constantly
changing their breeding-
policies?
To my mind the greatest
danger facing our wool-
industry today is the possibility
of the introduction of some
wild-cat scheme to replace the
■present method of selling under
the open auction system. We
must remember we are selling
a world-fibre on a world-
market, and any means
whereby wool is withheld from
that market is an open invita-
tion for man-made fibres to
make capital out of our folly.
We are already committed
to one serious error —the
embargo on the export of
Merino sheep. The world
needs more good wool to
counter the inroads of syn-
thetic fibres, yet we retain in
Australia, for our own use
only, the very animal which
could improve that standard.
To sum-up, l suggest that first
we should aim for a top-level
promotion-scheme, both in
Australia and overseas, and a
redoubled effort by our scien-
tists to widen wool's uses.
Therefore, if you are asked for
an increased monetary contri-
bution give it willingly and
help to see that u is used to
full advantage.
Secondly, we must breed
more sheep with more and
better wool. Provided we see
that the advantages and uses
of wool are vigorously and
properly promoted we could
easily find that we have insuffi-
cient of it to meet the demand
of a world whose population
increases by 3 per cent, each
year, whereas the increase in
wool-production, on present
figures, will be no more than
about 1 per cent, for some
time to come.
This is not the first time
in history that wool has been
sold below cost of production.
It has survived past crashes
and increased in volume. But
today we are up against a
decrease in purchasing-power
as well as mounting quantities
of synthetic fibres, which no
doubt have some place in com-
merce. Let’s make use of these,
where we need them, because
they will always be with us.
But, above all, let’s produce
more and better wool and
promote it with the utmost
vigor.


ANNOUNCING—
THE NEW “AJAX” HYDRAULIC
WOOL PRE
Registered Design No. 37210
Still Priced Within The Range
Of EVERY FLOCKOWNER
O
THIS PRESS HAS THESE
OUTSTANDING FEATURES:
STRENGTH! The completely engineer designed box
with its powerful angle iron bearers and semi tubed slats is the
standard "AJAX." Since 1938, over 21,000 sheep men with
100,000's of bales, many over 500 lbs., have proved this strength.
When pressing, the pull is taken on a special imported 1 2 inch
STEEL CORE wirerope, needing no turn buckles or weak links.
SPEED! The ingenious framework efficiently handles the
monkey in and out of the press, with ease and speed, cutting
minutes off each bale.
The hydraulic hand pump with its double pistons ensures maxi-
mum speed with effortless pressing.
MOBILITY H The addition of five inch wheels makes this
press as simple to move from bin to bin as the standard "Ajax."
THE HYDRAULIC GEAR: a,*, m, yeas
experience in this country in shearing sheds and with wool presses
in particular, we have designed and are manufacturing in our
own factory, the powerful twin piston pump, cylinder and ram.
NOTE THESE FEATURES: The pump is encased in the sealed oil reservoir, doing away with unnecessary
joints and tubes, thus minimising leakage of fluid and evaporation of oil from one shearing season to another. A MINIMUM
OF SERVICE PROBLEMS.
The double piston means double pumping and so more speed and less effort.
The pump has a huge capacity. During the last fifty bales put through the test model, a bale of 524 lbs. of
stained pieces was pressed with the pump at less than three quarters capacity.
ONE presser with a lad throwing the wool from the bin, pressed five bales in thirty five minutes.
AGENTS IN ALL STATES ENQUIRE AT ANY MACHINERY MERCHANT OR WOOLHOUSE
Manufactured by
DONALD PATENTS LTD.
390 GLENMORE RD., PADDINGTON, N.S.W. PHONES: FA 1664, FA 7847


OVER
SERVICE TO THE WOOL INDUSTRY
A long association with Australia’s most important
industry means many things, among these are experience,
and knowledge of every phase of the wool business.
A.N.Z. Bank is equipped to give expert service to wool
growers, wool brokers and wool buyers.
Overseas travel bookings and advice about overseas
markets are included in the complete range of banking
services offered by A.N.Z. Bank. A call or enquiry from
you will be welcomed at any branch of the Bank.
A'N’Z
i***i
AN Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
ANZ453.2458
THE TASMANIAN FINE WOOL SAXON MERINO
By JOHN FOSTER
(Foundation-president, Tasmanian Fine-wool Merino Sheepbreeders’ Association)
'T'here is a saying “If you
stick to your fine-wool
Merinos they will stick to you.”
How very true this is. The
old Saxon properties went on
for years and survived
droughts, depressions, the ex-
port embargo and death-
duties.
The trend in world fashions
is more and more towards
super-lightweight materials.
We in Tasmania are fortun-
ate in having the perfect
environment for breeding the
best wool-sheep in the world,
Year after year the world’s
record price is paid for Saxon
wool at our Tasmanian sales,
and buyers come from every
State to get their top-sires here.
These Tasmanian Saxons are
so closely bred that they will
improve the wool on any breed
of sheep they are used on.
They are very prepotent.
The main rule in breeding is
to have a pure (as near perfect
as possible) inbred parent on
one side; it is more convenient
for this to be the sire. It is
easy to breed a champion with
an outbred hybrid, but this
hybrid champion’s progeny will
be all over the place. I believe
Pleasant Banks is the only
Merino stud to breed a
champion ram whose son and
daughter, grandson and grand-
daughter were all champions;
this can only be done with
pure inbreeding.
For some years Miss Helen
Turner has advocated the
weighing of fleeces to improve
your sheep. I pointed out to
her that possibly the method
she suggests would breed
bigger sheep, which eat more.
In my opinion it is profit per
acre we should strive for, not
more wool per sheep—or more
pence per pound. So I
persuaded her to weigh the
sheep, too.
Here we have a Campion
cradle mounted on our scales
and weigh the sheep before and
after shearing. This is most
important, because a sheep of
2001 b. eats twice as much as
a sheep weighing 1001 b. Work
it out for yourself. Which is
the more profitable to run—
one sheep weighing 2001 b.,
cutting 121 b. wool, valipie- 60
pence per lb. (cost of shearing
3s. 6d.), or two sheep weighing
1001 b. each, cutting 161 b. wool,
value 90 pence per lb. (cost of
shearing 75.).
The Saxon Merino sheep is
a slow maturer, but has a very
long useful life, usually having
good teeth and wool at nine
years, often much longer. We
have bred from ewes over 12
years old and their fleeces were
still good and teeth fair.
No animals have yet become
seasoned to highly fertilised
pastures; it is doubtful if they
ever will. The only pure
Merino, the Saxon, does well
where he can get some scrub
or tree to eat; it is an essential
part of his diet, whereas the
British breeds seem to do well
without scrub. We have found
the pine the best tonic tree, and
no matter how rich the pasture,
if our sheep get their pine and
the worms are kept out of
them, they thrive.
It has been proved that
blade-shorn sheep cut at least
ilb. more wool than machine-
shorn. Although the old blade-
shearer is dying out, it is a
crime to shear young Saxon
Merino lambs with machines.
We lamb in September, have
our general machine-shearing
at the end of October, and then
o Continued on page 72)


TIE WIRE-NETTING
GERRARD v
AUTOMATIC
RING FASTENER
GUN - - - 60/- each
GALVANISED FASTENERS
ll- per 10OQf )
THIS EASY WAY-
Kv.
(£5 yds. per minute)
As fast as you can squeeze its
easy-working handles, this
feeding gun effortlessly clamps tfrfe
Ring Fasteners are sold
in packets of 1000
H Gauge cement-adhered staples into sturdy -| in. rings, which are automat
caHy fed into_the jaws. There is_no wastage—the jobTs qSick. "neaTand strong^
Available from ALL WOOL HOUSES and
GENERAL STORES
Manufactured by Gerrard Engineering Pty. Ltd., IS Ireland St., W. MELB.
auction, which should be
preserved.”
The substance of Mr. Cole’s
statement is contained in the
following paragraphs:
1 refuse to believe that the
present generation of woolgrowers
will accept the rejection by the
A.W.C. of the Wool and Meat
Producers’ Federation’s modest
approach on the question of a
reserve-price plan.
The rejection of the co-operation
that the Australian Wool and Meat
Federation offered the Australian
Woolgrowers’ Council in a reserve-
price protection proposal was a
gieat disappointment.
'T'he post-J.O. plan was
A defeated at a referendum
of growers in 1951. Mr. Cole
was a champion of the plan,
as was W. A. Gunn, then presi-
dent of the United Graziers of
Queensland, and now chair-
man of the Australian Wool
Bureau. The history is so
recent that, inevitably, the old
names keep cropping-up.
C. M. Williams, treasurer of
the N.S.W. Graziers’ Associa-
tion, moved the motion that
“There be no major departure
at present from the auction-
system,” at this year’s annual
conference. The motion was
supported by G. G. Ashton
(Yass), opposed by R. P.
Holden (Warialda) and A-. W.
Scott (Goulburn), and carried
with a few dissenting voices.
Back in 1951 Mr. Williams,
who was then president,
addressed another annual con-
ference of the Graziers’
Association on the subject of
•the post-J.O. plan. These par-
ticular pages of history came
from the files of “Country
Life,” issue of April 20 that
year. The occasion was an
important one. Reading the
report now, one gets a fair
reconstruction of the temper of
the period ; which, after all, is
not very distant.
“1 cannot help remarking,”
said Mr. Williams, “how
naively innocent were the wool-
growers of Australia when,
instead of assuming the full
responsibility for wool pro-
motion and research, they
accepted the fatal pound-for-
pound which enables —indeed,
perhaps justifies—Government,
and the whole outfit of Govern-
ment technologists, fastening
upon the industry with the
remorseless and tightening
stranglehold of the Old Man
of the Sea.”
The speech was a long one,
and in it the composition of
the Australian Wool Board,
and the policy of the Austra-
lian Producers’ Union were
criticised.
“Country Life” reports that
after critically reviewing
various aspects of the past
year’s negotiations for a wool-
marketing scheme, Mr.
Williams said:
If at this stage we check our
milestones, they tell us this: that
any marketing scheme becomes
subject immediately to inter-
national pressures; that in the
international field the power of
Governments, not producers, is
paramount; that the control of
any plan will, if not immediately,
eventually, be shared equally
between consumer and producer
interests; that the claim for foreign
consumer-countries to participate in
the control may eventually have to
be conceded.
Again: —-
Gentlemen, I am opposed to this
Wool Marketing Plan absolutely.
The only benefit it purports to hold
out is short-range, in setting a
limit to any sudden major decline
in the market within the wool-
selling season ; and even of this no
guarantee can be given.
For this I am not prepared
voluntarily to bring the wool indus-
try within the compass of Govern-
ment control, or to subject it to
international pressure which flows
from treaties or understandings, the
terms of which we cannot in any
way influence.
Whatever may be said to the
contrary, this is not a grower-
controlled plan. If it is put into
operation, 1, for one, expect that
influence in its management will in
the course of time be substantially
reduced, and perhaps eliminated. L
hope that this conference will come
to a firm decision calling upon the
association to oppose the plan, and
that the delegates vvill do their
utmost to see that it is rejected.
IVfr Williams then mentioned
ivtr williams inen menuoneu
the Wool Sales Deduction Act,
but advised the conference not
to be diverted from “much
„
graver issues.
I am certain that, had not the
wool-tax pre-payment arrangement
been brought forward, a programme
embodying an export-tax on wool
would have been adopted....
Mr. Chifley’s promise to repeal
these Acts is valueless, because it
is not accompanied by an under-
taking to refrain from imposing an
export-tax on wool, or from sub-
jecting the industry to some other
kind of discriminatory impost.
Mr. Chifley’s promise to return
to woolgrowers the moneys already
collected under the Wool Sales
Deduction Acts plumb the depths
of insincerity. No sooner would
the tax repayments be handed back
to woolgrowers than woolgrowers
would receive their income-tax
assessments and be' obliged to
return the money.
'T'hen T P. Abbott read hi 9
-E- motion, supporting the
president and calling on the
executive to “do all in its power
to defeat the referendum by
voting ‘No.’ ”
There was then some discussion
concerning confidential papers, and
the statement on the
plan.
Mr. Bremner: We can. take it
the statement prepared was abso-
illte|y accurate in all details?
Mr. Williams: I can say that i
am satisfied that it is completely
accurate.
Mr. lck-Hewins (general-secre-
tary, who had prepared the state-
ment). I must modify that
statement a iittle daughter).
Brit when Mr. Ick-Hewins ex-
plained his qualification, several
delegates expressed their confidence
that the statement was no doubt
as complete and accurate as possible
with the- plan not actually
completed.
Not actually completed!
„ ,• ~ J , 5 ,
Reading the lepoit, one haSi
impression that the plan
has been thoroughly analysed,
and found wanting
M Ahhntt lannrhinn his
ADD ° tl * ms
motion, said : What I am
going to put before conference
are facts, regardless of whether
lhey emanated from confiden-
.. / , . .
documents or not.
• In the course of a lengthy
speech he said :
, Th f orn ' wn ,,u nav
1 growers would pay
£s2j million the first year, and
5 per cent, of their total wool-
proceeds for the next five
years.
2. That Britain had not, as
yet, agreed to put anything into
the fund, but was demanding
representation on the contin-
gency that she might have to
contribute when the growers’
fund had been exhausted.


Available for the First Time
in Australia
The Famous New Zealand
STEPHENS’
FOOTROT
CUPPER
® Fits all standard shearing
machines
® Strongly built for long life
® Light and comfortable to handle
® Will cut any type of sheeps’
hoof
£29'lo'-
WP
48-56 QUEEN’S BRIDGE ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE
3. That Britain demanded
lepresentation equal to that of
the Dominions combined. She
claimed this as representing
consumers on an International
Commodity Control Board as
laid down under Clause 63 of
the Havana Agreement of
1.T.0.
The motion was carried by
103 votes to nil, several dele-
gates abstaining from voting.
“/Country Life” reports:
“Mr. B. R. Bremner said
frankly that he had, previously
been in favor of some sort of
price-stabilisation, but from
what could be ascertained
about the present proposed
scheme he had come to the
conclusion it would be wrong
to advocate or accept it.”
Hitchens, who mentions the
incident in Tangled Skeins,
comments: “On the informa-
tion supplied few could think
otherwise. His judgment was
not at fault, merely the infor-
mation on which his judgment
was based.”
On Abbott’s three points,
Hitchens notes that the Havana
Charter was already dead, and
a comparison with the “finan-
cial provisions” and “represen-
tation” clauses shows that the
other information was
incorrect.
Turning over the “Country
Life” files, one sees a number
of “open letters” —Hitchens to
Abbott; Abbott to Hitchens ;
Renshaw to Abbott. The main
accusation is that Abbott
“stampeded” the delegates at
the Graziers’ conference.
In Tangled Skeins Hitchens
makes the point that in the
marketing of wool every sec-
tion except the grower is very
well organised. True, he says,
individual growers can put a
reserve on their wool and
refuse to sell. But, in practice,
it is very hard for an individual
to hold-out.
He also alleges that —in the
past, anyway woolbrokers
have had a disproportionate
influence on woolgrowers’
affairs, giving examples of men
who reached high office in
graziers’ organisations. The
interests of growers and
brokers may be identical in
some cases, he argues. In other
cases they may not be.
The post-J.O. plan is printed
in full, together with the plan
drafted by the Australian
Woolgrowers’ Council in 1949,
and the plan adopted by
his own organisation, the
A.W.M.P.F., in 1947.
He maintains that the
A.W.C. went through the
motions of preparing a plan,
since opposition to it would
have been dangerous “Because
many Council members were
strongly in favor of a plan.
Neither could the issue be
safely ignored, for the whole
question was very much in
everyone’s mind.”
After 18 months, Hitchens
says, a plan was produced and
taken to the Government “in
the almost certain knowledge
that no Government could pos-
sibly accept the financial
obligations which it sought to
impose on the Commonwealth
Treasury. It was rejected for
that reason, and was also
rejected by a succeeding
Government for the same
reason.”
Tn a foreword to Tangled
Skeins Sir S. M. Wadham,
Professor Emeritus of Agricul-
ture at Melbourne, remarked
that he told the author he
didn’t agree with him on
several points. For instance:
I agree that the price-collapse in
wool during the early years of the
depression— i.e., 1929-30 might
have been staved-off if a “reserve-
price plan” had been in operation.
On the other hand, it is certainly
arguable, and I think probably cor-
rect, that if there had been a
reserve-price plan, quite a large
quantity of wool' would have gone
into store at that time.
If this were so, then the rather
rapid recovery of wool in 1934
would have been delayed. The
fact was, that manufacturers got
their wool at prices which were
ridiculously low from the producers’
point of view. They then turned-
out a great deal of cheap cloth,
and this actually went into con-
sumption. It is quite arguable that
if they had not been able to do
this, less wool would have been
used from 1933 onwards, then more
substitutes would have been used,
and the recovery of wool would
have been delayed.
And:
It is well to remember that in
1925 the New Zealand dairy-
industry tried to fix its price for
butter on the British market. It
cost the dairyfarmers of New
Zealand several million pounds and
achieved nothing. Similarly, the
Canadian wheat-pools spent many
millions of dollars in trying to
hold up the wheat-prices during the
depression period.
Regarding the book itself:
“It contains an eyewitness’s
account of an important phase
of an important subject. The
details of these events have
not been set-out anywhere else ;
neither is anyone likely to set
them out until decades have
passed and some historian
starts writing a thesis.
“Such a one would find it
difficult to extract from the
rather meagre records an effec-
tive account of the contro-
versy. It is possible that such
a study might be relatively
inaccurate, whereas in this
book we have the account of
one who was an eyewitness
and a protagonist in the dis-
cussions. It is, of course, quite
true that the account is written
with a bias, but a controversial
subject must be approached in
that way by one of tne pro-
tagonists concerned.
“The second reason why this
statement should be put on
record is that it reveals some
or all of the factors wmch have
influenced past dec.s.ons on
the matter of wool-marketing,
and these should be under-
stood and available wnen the
controversy flares-up as it
most certainly will within the
next 10 years.”
Well, it has flared-up
npHE N.S.W. Graziers’ Associa-
tion conference appointed
a committee to investigate
a wool-marketing plan to
minimise price - fluctuations.
The conference also agreed
that if, and when, a plan was
hammered out by the associa-
tion, representatives of other
woolgrowing organisations
would be consulted before
approaching the Government.
Presumably the committee
would take into consideration
the three plans mentioned,
which are reproduced in full
in Hitchens’s book.
In the meantime, W.A.
Weatherley, chairman of the
Australian Woolgrowers’
Council, and G. d'A. Chislett
plan to visit America, England,
and possibly France and Italy,
to gain further information,
from the consumer’s end, in
order to complete the Chislett
Report, which should be in
the hands of the A.W.C. by
July.
It will be interesting to watch
future developments.


GOVERNMENT DISPOSAL DEALER
B
ONE AND TWO MAN CROSSCUT SAWS. Ist GRADE STEEL
ONE MAN
TWO MAN
PRICE 30/-
PRICE 59/6
WARDROBES
6ft. x 18in. x 21
in. deep single
shelf. Many uses.
Perfect used con-
dition. Good buy-
ing at
£4/9/6 ea.
m
Clothing Clearance
Khaki Serjjre Trousers. (Slightly
faulty.) 34 waist only. 34/(5 pr.
Khaki Drill Trousers. New, 39
to 43 waist, 39/6 pr.
Khaki Shirts. Drill, New. OS
or XOS, 35/- ea.
Khaki Shirts. New Drill. All
Sizes, 36/(5 ea.
Khaki Lumber Jackets, S/H.
S«*rge. SM to OS. 35/- each.
R.A.A.K. Trousers. Blue Serge.
New. 39 to 34 waist, 39/6 pair.
CHAIN
Brand new. llz” x Vi".
4’B” lengths. The cheapest
price ever.
5:
5/- Length
Postage 2/-.
* SPECIAL
QUOTE FOR-
QUANTITY
SIDE-
BOARDS
£4/19/6
each
18in. x fftiin., 42in. long:. 2-door 2-drawer
type. Perfect used condition. Only
stock in Sydney of this line at £4/19/6
each.
(•>/- extra packing: on furnitme.)
TABLES
35in. x 35in. x 30in.
high Inlaid lirio
tops. Perfect con-
dition suit week-
ender, camping-, etc.,
at
£2/19/6
Horse Rugs £5/10/-
IV
Out of season sell-outs of
H/D Winter Rugs. Weather-
proof, lined. Sizes sft. to
6ft. Price 5/10/-. Don’t
Delay.
Post 5/- extra.
EX-ARMY ANTI-
GAS HAVERSACKS
As-New Condition. Per-
fect. Ist release in years.
9/11 eoch
Postage 2/- ea
Brand New Rope
-y-- '■
7/16in. diam. in 26ft.
lengths. Splice one end.
Ideal for load tying, etc.
Price 4/ each.
It \1
wm
ty
b‘‘
]
CUTLERY
Ex-army Forks. Soup
Suuons, Teaspoons
and Dessert Spoons.
Price, 1/- each, or
10/- per do*.
KNIVES
Ideal all steel.
Price, 1/9 each or
17/6 dozen.
Size 20in. x 14in. x
7in. Galvanise d.
Complete with handles
and locking staples.
As new.
25/- each
DEED BOX or TOOL BOX
Brapd New Flying Helmets
vm
«Sv
\
m
/
Soft leather, Chamois lined
Ideal motor cyclists, etc.
Price 19/6 each
Sizes up to 7i. Post 1/9
extra.
Ex R.A..A.F. Brand new flying
goggles, complete with Polaroid
sun visor and spares. Price 19/6
pair. Post 4/ extra.
SM, M, OS Sizes. Blue. Good
condition at 12/6 each. Post
3/6 extra.
/
Flying Gauntlets
Ex - R.A.A.E. Brand - new,
complete wish zipper, best
quality leather. Wort h
treble. Postage 2/-.
19/6 pair
RAIN
S/H.
“Don-R” 3/4 Length. Ex-
Army. M to OS Sizes. Eer-
l'eet eonilition. 3 pockets.
45/- each
WEAR
TERRIFIC VALUE
MEN’S SHOES
Sizes 84 to 12 only. Ex-
U.S.A. Navy. Black. Brand-
new. 39/6 pair. Postage 3/6
pair. Eadies’ Shoes, Ex-
Army. Brand-new. Tan.
4,5, 6 sizes. 27/6 pair.
BRAND SPANKING NEW
CANE KNIFE or MACHETE
Brand new. Ist release for years. Low
priced at
8/6 each
Postage 2/-.
Mail Order Specialist
Please Add Postage
m
lsi
%)}
2
Si
<C/
'A-
Single - bed size,
60in. x B<>in.
Brand-new
35/-each
Heavy quality,
Seeondband, Ex-
Army.
25/- each
Perfect,
Postage ‘if- each.
D. KING PTY. LTD.
122-124 Devonshire Street, Sydney.
MX3954. MA4537. FA1985. (After
Hours, FX7242—AH Hours.)


THE
BIG
FOUR
THE
BIG
FOUR
Famous Stud Flocks
That serve A ustralia
Perpetuating 100% of Peppins original Merino studs established in 1861.
BOONOKE Flock No. 7
POLL BOONOKE Flock No. PI (Pure Boonoke)
WANGANELLA Flock No. 85
WANGANELLA ESTATE ******
THE GREATEST SOURCE OF PEPPIN BLOOD IN EXISTENCE
® More than one-third of the national woolclip
is bred directly or indirectly to “FSF” blood.
An Outstanding Team from these Stud's is available at Sydney Sales.
O 5 SPECIALS from POLL BOONOKE STUD with A.M.L. & F.
8 STUD RAMS from POLL BOONOKE STUD with ELDERS.
• 1 1 SPECIALS from BOONOKE STUD with A.M.L. & F.
9 STUD RAMS from BOONOKE STUD with ELDERS.
• 1 Special Stud and 5 Studs from Wanganella Stud are with
Dalgety’s.
5 Stud Rams, also from Wanganella Stud, with each ELDERS
and Goldsbrough Mort.
® 3 Specials and 7 Stud Rams from Wanganella Estate will be
offered by Dalgety & Co., Ltd.
And 10 Wanganella Estate Stud Rams are with Farmers and
Graziers.
THESE RAMS ARE OUR MOST PLEASING SIRE PROSPECTS
OFFERED FOR MANY YEARS.
All enquiries to go to the respective Studs, DENILIQUIN, N.S.W.
Head Office of the Proprietors,
F.S.FALKINE.R& SONS PTY.LTD
is at Boonoke, Deniliquin. Telephone: Conargo 4. Telegrams: Boonram, Conargo.
blade-shear our lambs in
January. This has many ad-
vantages. The skin is left on
the lambs, the lambs’ wool is
l°ng enough to be profitable,
we get paid for it twelve
months earlier, and the follow-
ing hogget-wool is not too long.
I am sure we get more wool
from our sheep afterwards.
All wool-men, whether ram-
buyers or stud-breeders, should
work hard for the lifting of the
Merino-export embargo. It was
a bad experiment sponsored
in 1928 by a Corriedale-
breeder, Senator Guthrie, who
after a few years admitted his
mistake and tried to rectify it.
It is hard to see why it is still
retained. If it were lifted, soon
there would be twice as many
stud-breeders, and ram-buyers
would have a better selection
and only pay more if they
wanted better rams. Australia’s
wool has improved very little
since the embargo was imposed.
In conclusion, I think that
at least 90 p.c. of any animal’s
breeding goes down its neck;
but few people realise that
the sins of bad feeding are
descended upon the children
unto to the third and fourth
generation. Because an animal
is fat does not necessarily mean
it is well-fed.
Too much super., lack of
trace-elements and scrub, too
long grass and worms are just
obvious ones. How often does
our feed look good, but the stock
won’t “do”? Diseases appear
and constitution disappears.
If anything is fed properly for
three generations, sickness and
ailments —even footrot —will
disappear. Nourishment of the
pregnant ewe and the young
lamb has a marked effect on
the number of wool-follicles
that develop in the resulting
sheep. All woolgrowers should
study this for themselves.
I have seen some districts
where the inhabitants were so
sure that these Saxons would
not do in their environment
that they did not even try
them; but as soon as some
brave man did, his neighbors
were not long in seeing their
virtues and running these fine-
wool sheep.
Water Conservation
“Myall”: A huge water-
harvesting scheme has been
designed by the Queensland
Irrigation Commission for the
owners of North Bindango
cattle-station at Hodgson, 30
miles west of Roma.
An earthen bank, 1200 ft.
long and up to 35ft. high, has
been built across a valley. The
dam, when filled, will sub-
merge 64 acres of land and
store 156-million gallons of
water, equal to about 600 acre-
feet. It will irrigate between
150 and 200 acres of cattle-
fattening pastures, and the
owners claim it will increase
the permanent carrying-capa-
city of breeding-stock by 20
per cent.
Over 70,000 cubic-yards of
material were used to construct
the wall, and for each yard of
dirt used 20 cubic-yards of
water will be impounded.
Engineers point out that, in an
excavated tank, only 1| cubic-
yard of water is impounded
for each yard of dirt removed.
The dam has a catchment-area
of 1000 acres, and a one-mile-
long drain has been constructed
to divert water from a creek,
to ensure that the dam is filled.
The cost of the earthworks
is about £9OOO, and the irriga-
tion plant will add another
£lBOO to the bill.
The owners claim that, pro-
vided the dam is full at the
commencement of a drought,
the present number of cattle
could be maintained through
the longest dry spell that has
ever been recorded in the
Roma district, without any
losses.


Dosing for black scour
worms should be com-
menced in May, and
the second dose, if con-
sidered necessary, in
July.
Investigations prove that
heavy losses can result
if drenching against
worms is delayed until
an outbreak actually
occurs. Over a trial
period, wool losses were
found to be as high as
60%, although the in-
festation with black
scour worms was not,
sufficient to cause
scouring.
Lamb losses occasioned
by flystrike, setback
and other diseases are
considerably reduced
with the use of Elastra-
tor Rubber Rings for
Castration and Tailing.
The Elastrator method
of castration and tail-
ing js safe, sure and
humane, because Elas-
trator Rubber Rings
leave no open wound.
Obtain your supply of
Elastrator Rubber Rings
from your local agent
today.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO,
GRAZCOS "
PASTURE DEVELOPMENT FOR SHEEP
AND WOOL PRODUCTION
By J. D. McFARLANE
Lecturer in Agronomy, School of Wool Technology,
University of N.S.W.
T>asture - development pro-
grammes range from the
spectacular establishment of
clovers on low-fertility soils, in
areas of fairly good rainfall,
to rather simple modifications
of management for the rehabili-
tation of valuable perennials in
dry pastoral areas. Accord-
ingly, the costs involved may
range from over £2O an acre,
where green timber has to be
cleared, to practically nothing.
Whatever the circumstances,
it is important that develop-
ment programmes should be
carefully planned and executed.
particularly important
at the present time, with rural
incomes down and profit-
margins reduced. On the one
hand, the grazier might see
increased pasture-production,
with the consequent higher
stock-carrying capacity, as his
main way of increasing net
returns. On the other hand,
his financial position might be
such that he is not anxious to
embark on a pasture-pro-
gramme involving a big cash-
outlay if production will
increase only slowly or if there
is a risk of failure, or partial
failure.
On the many properties
already partly pasture-
improved there is usually the
choice of further development
of paddocks that have had
some treatment (clover-
dominant paddocks, for
example) or carrying out the
initial improvement of acreages
still under native pasture.
In such cases it is obviously
important to consider whether
response to a given investment
will be greater from new land
or from land which has already
benefited from some sowing
and fertilising.
The level of production of
existing improved - pastures
should be carefully reviewed.
Are these pastures giving a
satisfactory level of animal-
production? Perhaps a little
more investment in those pad-
docks, or some changes in
management, would give sig-
nificant increases in production
at little cost.
On such land the value of
superphosphate should be fully
exploited. Throughout most
of southern Australia soils are
notably deficient in phosphate,
and it is widely acknowledged
that superphosphate is essen-
tial in pasture-establishment.
It is not so widely realised,
however, that the amount of
superphosphate required for
high production is much
greater than the requirement
for pasture-establishment.
Furthermore, the value of
superphosphate extends beyond
stimulation of herbage-produc-
tion ; it has a controlling
influence on the nitrogen-fixa-
tion by legumes growing in
low-fertility soils. The relation-
ship between soil - nitrogen
accumulation and super-
phosphate - application was
clearly revealed by a C.5.1.R.0.
study of fertility changes in
more than 40 paddocks in the
Crookwell district, on the
southern tableland of N.S.W.
These pastures had received
various quantities of super-
phosphate during different
periods (up to 25 years) under
subterranean-clover. It was
found that for each hundred-
weight of superphosphate that
had been applied to the pas-
tures the nitrogen accumulated
in the soils was equivalent fo
the nitrogen-content of 3icwt.
of sulphate-of-ammonia! Like-
wise the accumulation of other
important nutrients (calcium,
magnesium, sulphur and
potash) and organic matter in
the topsoil was proportional to
superphosphate applications.
This good influence of super-
phosphate on soil - fertility
results in improvement of
growing-conditions to the level
at which a grass-clover pasture
can supersede a clover-
dominant pasture. Although
the clover-dominance is a big
advance on native pastures, it
is but the first step in pasture-
development. Because of the
production limitations, stock
disorders and weed problems
associated with clover-pastures
the objective should be to speed
the build-up of fertility so that
the more desirable grassy pas-
ture can flourish. The way to
accelerate the work of the
clover phase of development is
to use superphosphate liberally.
When soil-fertility has been
substantially improved there is
not only greater herbage pro-
duction ; there is more scope
for improving nutrition during
critical periods. The rye-
grasses, for example, might be
used to improve winter-feed
supplies. In a study by
Willoughby, of C.S.I.R.O., at
Canberra a few years ago a
pasture dominated by Wimmera
rye-grass produced 68 per cent,
of its year’s growth by mid-
August, whereas a subter-
ranean - clover - dominant pas-
ture produced only 40 per cent,
of its growth by that time.
This was in a year of satisfac-
tory spring rainfall.
Such a change in the distri-
bution of growth, apart from
providing for more of the
growth to occur before the less-
reliable spring season, would be
of considerable importance to
ewes in late pregnancy and to
spring lambs. It is now well
established that during the last
seven weeks of pregnancy,
when most of the growth of
the foetus occurs, the ewe is
very sensitive to nutritional
stress. Lower lamb-weights,
increased lamb-mortality and
increased incidence of preg-
nancy-toxaemia can all result
from nutritional stress in this
critical period.
Futhermore, research has
established that wool-produc-
tion throughout the life of a
sheep is influenced by the way
it is fed during six to eight
critical months, including the
two months before birth.
Although inheritance sets the
limit to the total number of
wool-follicles that a sheep
might develop, the number
that actually develop depends
on nutrition. The majority
of secondary follicles start
growing wool in the second
and third weeks of the lamb’s
life if nutrition is satisfactory.
At one-month the well-fed
lamb will have about 80 per
cent, of its follicles producing
wool-fibre. About 95 per cent,
of the follicles are mature by
four-months, and by six-
0Continued on page 78)


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
SpSPORTING
NOTIONS YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED. MILL RUM.
At Caulfield
Last week it was suggested
here that Officedale was a
youngster to watch, a piece of
advice that was proved sound
when the Fair’s Fair two-year-
old scored a clear-cut win in
the first division of the seven-
furlongs Ovens Handicap at
Caulfield last Saturday. As
well as the staying blood he
has through his sire, Officedale
gets a further issue from his
dam, Favorable, an imported
mare closely related to English
Derby winner Blue Peter. It
was a fairish field Officedale
defeated in the Ovens, and it’s
quite possible he will show even
better form in the distance-
events for three-year-olds next
spring.
• • •'
It was nothing surprising that
Dhaulagiri, winner of the
second Ovens, should have
started at 100 to 1. The High
Peak colt’s form had been
atrocious, and at the seven-
furlongs barrier he drew No.
17—handicap enough to stop a
well-performed horse. He
overcame his bad draw inside
the first furlong, and thereafter
lobbed along in the leading
bunch to the straight, where
he raced away to win with a
lot in hand. Possible explana-
tion of the improvement is that
he’s out of the Solar Bear mare
Solar Circle, and, like most of
the Solar Bear stock, appreci-
ates a heavy track—and the
going at Caulfield was certainly
holding. Still, it was an im-
pressive performance.
Racing at Caulfield took on
an Alice-in-Wonderland atmo-
sphere when, hard on Dhaula-
giri’s win, Irish Sun took the
following event, the Shillabeer
Steeple. At his previous start,
in the Grassmere Steeple at
Flemington, Irish Sun had run
15th, and prior to that had
fallen in the Guildford Steeple
last September. Nevertheless,
one punter coupled Dhaulagiri
and Irish Sun on the doubles-
tote and landed the whole pool,
£4464. Irish Sun, by the way,
is a Solar Bear, and, as stated,
the going was heavy. The divi-
dend was a record for Australia.
• • • •
Previous form apart, Irish
Sun turned in an excellent per-
formance. Against a field of
National hopes, the five-year-
old grey gelding finished with
great determination to win
“Trust her to wear something devastating to put us
off our put !”
going away. He is in the hands
of Pedro’s Pride’s mentor,
Harry Myers, and Myers thinks
he’s a National prospect.
In winning the Port Phillip
Hurdle French Master con-
firmed the promise he gave last
spring, when he won jumping-
events at Bendigo and Caul-
field. This time up, the five-
year-old Atout Maitre gelding
had won a Jumpers’ Flat and
was second in a country handi-
cap before his Port Phillip
win. Rather surprising that the
stock of Atout Maitre have not
done better in Australia. That
French-bred horse was an out-
standingly successful sire in
England, and has been repre-
sented by winners in 13
different countries. The best
of his stock here was probably
V.A.T.C. Debutante Stake-
winner Mistomer, but possibly,
through French Master, he
will become sire of a National
winner.
Star of Caulfield trainer
Peter Muschialli’s stable is
Royal Artist, who won the
Sires’ Produce Stakes in
Adelaide, but he has a pretty
good potboiler in the three-
year-old Smokey Eyes filly
Neriba. She carried the good
weight of 9st. in her win in
the six-furlongs Tambo Welter
at Caulfield. Last year Neriba
ran up a string of country
wins, and she has been suc-
cessful at her only two starts
this time up, both over the
six-furlongs route at Caulfield.
Neriba won well, though
narrowly, from former Sydney
sprinter Gabonia, and it looks
certain that Gabonia will win
a race or two in winter com-
pany.
Size of the field (24 runners)
and the evenness of handi-
cappers about at this time of
the year turned the Goulburn
Handicap into a wide-betting
race —13 to 2 the field on
offer at barrier-rise. Former
Adelaide galloper Auteuil
landed it, at sevens. Auteuil
came to Melbourne last spring
with the big Cups on his
programme. Former smart
sprinter Wales was tried over
a distance in this race, and
did well to run second. He
could win over a middle-
distance.
The Moonee Valley club
had a satisfactory year to
March 31 last, as set-out in
the report presented by chair-
man Sir Samuel Burston. It
showed a profit on the year’s
racing of £9058 after distri-
buting £116,000 in stakemoney
over 14 meetings. The report
showed that racegoers have
an overwhelming preference
for betting with bookmakers
rather than on the tote —the
comparative figures, £7,524,815
against £1,761,826. Mention
was made of the popularity
of the new stand with its re-
served boxes, which were in-
creased by demand from 45
to 120. The V.A.T.C. will
also provide reserved boxes
and seats in its extended main
grandstand for its 1960 spring
meeting.
* * *
Sydney Horses
Best remark of the year is
credited to the Sydney bookie
who won some 30,000 of the
best (quids) and was asked
what he thought he’d do with
it: “Oh,” he said, “give it to
the punters.”
Rosebery trainer Bob Stuart
successfully prepared and set
Cherchante for a first-up win
in the Warwick Farm mid-week
Revesby Novice for fillies and
mares. The filly had won a
barrier-trial at Randwick five
days earlier, but the public
obviously overlooked that
good pointer and the stable
threw-in for a nice win at long
odds, starting-price being 20
to 1. C. G. and Mi s. Holcjaway
race Cherchante, a three-year-
old by Damtar (imp.) from
Questing (a Rosehill Guineas
winner) by Hua from Ques-
tionnaire by Legionaire (imp.).
Questionnaire won six Flying
Handicaps at Canterbury Paric
and four similar events at the
old Kensington course.
As a rather different sort
of experience at the same
Warwick meeting, trainer
Clem Guy didn’t fancy Persian
Satin for the First Two-year-
old Novice because the
youngster had drawn the
extreme outside at the line-up
of 24 starters. She won easily
at 66 to 1, with the odds-on
favorite, Inquisitive, down the
running. Persian Satin was
followed home by King Sol (23
at barrier) —so much for pre-
judice over barrier positions!
Persian Satin is by Persian
Book (imp.) from Shady Lady
by Probation (imp.).
••i • ’ •
Winter two-year-old winners
frequently go on to better
things, the most striking
instance being Phar Lap.
Springbok, raced by paddock
bookmaker Jack Pick, opened
his winning-account in the
Warwick Second Two-year-old
Novice in impressive fashion,
and his future looks bright.
He’s a gelding by Cragsman
from Amused by Pure Gold


start thedau right!
:
•ASS?
from Merry Lips by East Tor
(imp.). Amused won a Rosehill
Cup and other good races.
* * 9
Veteran New Zealand
trainer Doug Webster, who
first came into prominence
hereabouts many years ago
with his “iron” horse Firstacre,
and who has struck a winning
patch with his present crop of
gallopers, may have something
for Brisbane in his stayer
Balfast, whose Warwick Farm
win at 11 furlongs with 8.11
was the most impressive Bris-
bane Cup trial to date. Bal-
fast drops to Bst. in the Bris-
bane Cup two-miler, and has
won at that distance in N.Z.
with a couple of pounds less.
* * *
Panic, one worth watching
among others now in Harry
Plant’s Randwick stable, won
the Rosehill Two-year-old
Graduation Stakes because
jockey Jack Thompson rode
her to perfection. Thompson
waited for the rails-run that
duly came soon after they
turned for home, and the short-
cut enabled her to beat Bold
Blonde, tiring a little in the
final furlong. Sands was a
good third and should soon
win. Panic is another of the
successful fillies by Pan II
(Fr.), and is from Adorned by
Le Grand Due (Fr.) from
Savaterie by Gay Lothario
(imp.) from Savate by Great
Star (imp.). Savate was a half-
sister to Baba, the dam of Gay
Lad, dual St. Leger winner, and
grand-dam of Carbon Copy.
V • -• • •
Sydney racegoers had a good
look at a smart New Zealander,
Copernicus, at Rosehill, and
they should soon collect on
him.. A good performer in
N.Z., he showed a lot of pace
in the Rosehill Flying. He
won eight races in N.Z. at
from six to 11 furlongs.
Winner in one of those
hair’s-breadth photo-finishes at
Rosehill, and winner at his
two previous starts also, Mystic
Star now goes into open com-
pany, and should have more
wins ahead of him there, even
though his latest success was
assessed as having been by only
1 / 16th of an inch. If that’s
not splitting hairs nothing is.
Maybe he has longer nose-
whiskers.
• • • •
Good winner (with Bst.) in
the Rosehili Flying, the grey
Boorala had been successful at
9j furlongs at Canterbury in
January, which followed three
quick wins a few weeks pre-
viously. A three-year-old, he
looked particularly well as he
paraded for the Rosehill seven-
furlongs sprint. Though nomi-
nated for the Doomben Ten
Thousand, he wasn’t entered for
the Stradbroke, but four Strad-
broke entrants finished behind
him, most prominent of them
in betting on the Q.T.C. sprint
being Huntly, whose perform-
ance was very disappointing.
Brisbane Cup hopes, too,
were shattered when Ark Royal
and El Rocco raced much
below expectations in the Rose-
hill Handicap, won by outsider
Angostura, who’s best known
in Newcastle, where he’s had
several successes over varying
distances. Comte De Paris was
the most popular of the nine
starters, but he shaped like a
novice, showing no dash and
-'being one of the tailenders all
the way—poor form compared
with his prior-start win at
Randwick over a similar dis-
tance in the James Barnes Plate.
However, he carried 101 b. more'
weight at Rosehill.
Apparently Persian Cloud
needs a strong horseman to
get the best out of her. With
Jack Thompson in the saddle,
she won the Rosehill Welter
with something in hand, though
seven days earlier at. the same
track she was easily beaten in
a similar event with less weight
when piloted by an apprentice.
Her trainer, Percy Gutteridge,
is in Wollongong Hospital
following a. track-accident at
Kembla Grange racecourse,
where he was thrown from a
yearling. He rides most of his
horses in trackwork at Rose-
bery, and was on a visit to
Kembla when the accident
happened.
* * »
The Trots
Jim Caffyn increased his
wins to 44 when he landed
the Harold Park Handicap
with Kerryfield last Friday
night. Kerryfield wcfn by an
easy length from Victorian
Marciano, who just beat
Lachalier into third possie by
a nose.
• • • •
The first five races all called
for the camera—the fourth,
the Two-year-old Stakes,
being decided by a half-head
and a nose. Favorite Skymain
led till well into the straight,
but Caffyn drove Major
Express Vigorously to win
from that leader and Rocky
Hanover, the latter’s run
being most impressive. After
having lost a number of
lengths at the start, and having
to race one-wide for the
whole journey, he lost by less
than a head.
After three consecutive
seconds, persistent country
winner Southern Van won the
Bondi Handicap by a head
from Neena Louise. Leading
nearly all the way in the three
previous races, Southern Van
this time was patiently kept
back by driver D. McMillan,
went to the lead near the
home-turn, and hung on long
enough to get the verdict.
The Trotters’ Handicap was
a triumph for Alf Phillis, who
has developed Shellgrit from
a bad breaker into a good
trotter. From the scratch-
mark, Shellgrit led for most
of the journey, and was able
to just keep half his head
in front at the post from the
fast - finishing Caffyn - driven
Lucky Vale.
* * •
Other Sports
Carlton and' North remain
unbeaten after the fifth V.F.L.
round, with Melbourne, and
Hawthorn, though both
defeated on Saturday, still
making-up “the four.” CarF
ton, at home, had its first win
over Melbourne since 1953
(10.13-9.7), while North just
got there by three points from
an off-target Fitzroy, 11.10-
9.19. St. Kilda had an exciting
four-point win over Haw-
thorn, making-up ground in
the last quarter, 10.21—11.11,
while Essendon was too fast
for Geelong, 11.18-7.12.
Richmond put its first match-
points on the board, which
leaves Collingwood, 1958
premiers (which it beat 13.20-
11.13) alone pointless on the
bottohi, as Footscray also
broke the ice—’Scray surprised
by giving South, which had
started the season so well, its
second successive drubbing,
17.11-13.8.
* • •
Rugby Union. —In Mel-
bourne, in its first game in
Australia, British Isles mas-
sacred Victoria 53-18, 12 tries
to one. In two games in Bris-
bane N.S.W. outplayed
Queensland 22-6 in the first*
but in the second, a very close
game in the mud and the rain,
N.S.W. just held-off the
Northerners, 9-8. In the
Sydney competition Manly
outplayed Randwick 30-9, and
North overran Eastwood 32-3,
while the other three games
were close —East beat Univer-
sity 10-8, Gordon too good in
just one scoring spell for
Parramatta 16-6, and St.
George a bit - too solid for
Drummoyne 11-6.
* * *
The annual City v. Country
Rugby League game in Sydney
was the usual one-sided affair,
with City backs far slicker
than their rural opponents,
37-7. Young St. George players
Raper and Gasnier were the
stars of the game. City 11,
feeling the loss of their hooker
after half-time, had a closer
tussle with Country 11, 28-24.
The Sunday game in the
Sydney competition-round was
also one-sided, with St. George
dishing it out to one of its
main rivals, West, 47-17.
* * *
In Sydney, at Soccer, Heart
of Midlothian for the third
time outclassed an Australian
team, to win by the same
margin each time, 7-1. At
Newcastle Deportivo ' Saprissa
was beaten 4-2 by the N.S.W.
Federation, for the latter’s third
win in its three games against
the Costa Ricans.
* * %
“.303”: All Souls School,
Charters Towers (Q.), has come
out top of the Earl Roberts
Imperial Cadet Trophy Com-
petition (1958) of all Australian
schools, and has gained seventh
place in the rating of all
schools in the British Common-
wealth. The All Souls team of
four cadets scored 290 points,
while the leading British Com-
monwealth team scored 302
points. This is the best placing
ever gained by ■an Australian
school in this annual shooting
competition.
• * *
Last week’s stoush: In
Sydney, in his first fight since
he won the Australian bantam
title last December, Johnny
Jarrett stopped New Zealander
Bill Leckie in the fourth
round. In Melbourne African
welter Joe N’Gidi beat Irish-
man Mick Leahy on points
in a willing 12-rounder.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
NUCLEAR HAZARDS
/Concern continues in Britain
about the possible dangers
of increased radiation from
nuclear-test explosions. A
summary of these dangers is
made by Geoffrey Taylor,
former Professor of Medicine
at Lahore University, writing
in London “Time and Tide”:
“There is general agreement
among scientists that nuclear
tests are leading to deaths and
deformities numbering many
thousands yearly in the present
generation of children. Most
scientific attention has been
given to radiostrontium (radio-
active strontium, or Strontium
90) as the main cause. It is an
element newly made radio-
active by hydrogen-bomb tests.
It spreads within a few weeks
all over the world from the
site of the explosion.
“Evidence available in the
spring of 1959 shows that it is
being deposited at rates three
to twelve times greater -than
had been estimated previously.
It is absorbed into all animals
and vegetation and is built into
the bones of young animals
and children. It remains radio-
active for the span of human
life, and its effects are cumu-
lative. It has been called the
deadliest poison in the world,
because it can cause bone-
cancer and leukaemia. We have
now put this poison into the
bones of all children, when it
will remain radioactive for the
rest of their -lives. This has,
never happened before.
“A similar new radioactive
element, Caesium 137, causes
damage to the heredity
mechanism, leading to physical
and mental deformities in
children. Reports from Har-
well of the levels of Caesium
137 have not been published. .
“Harwell reports show that
all specimens of grass, milk,
animal and children’s bones
contain increasing quantities of
radiostrontium. Each nuclear
test adds to this amount. As
the present generation of
children grow-up, their bones
and bodies will contain increas-
ing quantities, which are being
measured. The concentration
of radiostrontium is greatest in
the Northern Hemisphere and
in wet districts. Ironically the
peoples of America, Russia and
Britain are the most affected.
As rice absorbs many times the
average quantity, rice-eating
people have up to six times the
average amounts in their bones.
“Estimates of the number of
deaths from leukaemia, bone-
cancer and mental and physical
deformities caused by nuclear
tests have .been made by many
leading scientists. Professor
A. Haddow, at a lecture at the
House of Commons on Feb-
ruary 27, 1957, estimated that
—London “New Statesman.”
“HE SAYS ITS ALL RIGHT—THE BONES AREN’T
AFFECTED YET.”
nuclear tests up to that time,
numbering only one-tenth of
the present number, would lead
to a few hundred deaths from
leukaemia in Britain and
America and a few thousand
in the world population. The
British Atomic Scientists Asso-
ciation on April 16, 1957, pub-
lished their evidence for show-
ing that one megaton bomb ex-
ploded causes 1000 cases of
bone-cancer. (It is estimated
that 200 megatons have been
exploded in nuclear tests.) In
August, 1958, the United
Nations Report was published
in Britain, followed by a state-
ment by the British Medical
Research Council. These gave
estimates of genetically
damaged children and leukremia
caused by nuclear tests, ranging
from thousands up to a
hundred-thousand yearly, de-
pending on the continuation or
stopping of tests. Recent evi-
dence of a greater rate of ‘fall-
out’ suggests that the dangers
in Britain and America may be
much greater.
“These figures are compar-
able with those of deaths on the
roads in Britain. For a city or
county of half-a-million
people (Bristol or Somerset)
this means up to 80 deaths or
severely deformed children
yearly.
“The Prime Minister and
other members of the Govern-
ment have described the danger
as ‘insignificant,’ ‘infinitesimal’
and ‘unlikely to be serious for
a hundred years.’
“How many more children
must be killed and deformed
to make our politicians take
action? Never before have
Christian or pagan people been
prepared to murder and de-
form children thinking to de-
fend themselves. To the
Christian this is obviously
to the ordinary human-
being it is repulsive.”
Questioning Prime Minister
Macmillan’s reassurances in the
Commons in March, the same
writer notes that Macmillan
“reports the rate of increase
of Strontium 90 has doubled
in the last year, but doesn’t
mention that the increase in the
preceding years has been one-
third yearly. It was on this
one-third increase that esti-
mates on future dangers were
made. In fact, the rate of in-
crease is six times more than
expected.
“The statement is based on
the assumption that there will
be no more tests. But on May
4 the French Prime Minister
announced that France is pre-
paring her atomic tests. China
is making nuclear weapons and
many Americans are insisting
that they must continue tests.
“With tests continuing, the
Medical Research Council has
forecast that Strontium 90 will
rise by 40 units in Britain and
up to 200 units in the British
Commonwealth four to
twenty times above the so-
called safety level of the Prime
Minister. This makes
dangerous nonsense of . his
statement that the level is un-
likely to reach 10 units.
“Since 1956 it has been
generally recognised that there
is either no threshold or safety
level for radioactive poison, or
it is very low. He failed to
point out that it is the total
cumulative dose of radiation
from all sources Strontium
90, Caesium 137, Carbon 14,
X-rays and radiatioh from
industrial plant—-which must
be considered.
“Deaths from leukaemia in
England and Wales associated
with this increased X-ray radia-
tion have risen from 1452 in
1947 to 2394 in 1957. The
interim report of the Adrian
Committee, published on May
5, emphasises that exposure to
X-rays and radiation must be
cut to a minimum.”
Taylor concludes with the
suggestion that “Britain can
take the initiative by caWing a
special meeting of the United
Nations General Assembly to
consider the present 1959
dangers of nuclear tests and the
means of preventing the spread
of nuclear arms to the nations
of the world.”
Fireless Labor
■Deflecting on the general
lack of color and convic-
tion in May Day celebrations
in the U.K. over the past
several years, “Yorkshire Post”
notes that “not to Conservative
eyes only, but in the mournful
and bewildered opinion of
many Socialist stalwarts, it is
apparent that much of the
missionary fire and fervor has
gone out of the Labor party
and the Labor movement”:
“To their political opponents
the dilemma of the Socialists
can seem a matter either for
laughter or rejoicing. But for
those involved it is a puzzle
without a solution. The fact
is that the fate which has over-
taken the Labor party is the
inevitable result of a vast eco-
nomic and social transforma-
tion of our country, in which
all parties, including Labor,
have had their share. None of
us likes all the consequences


Ideal
ofing for
Modern
Homes
Lightweight Roofing
with a Terra-Cotta Appearance!
So easy to fix on old or new homes—existing roof
timber structure requires no alterations—exterior
appearance is enhanced by the rich russet red synthetic
enamel. Sturdy, watertight and scientifically designed
to ensure maximum run-off of drinkable water.
Metal Tile Roofing
Manufactured by
Baptist Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY
Write to Dept. "MT,”'
Wunderlich Limited,
Box 474, 0.P.0.,
Sydney, for free
catalogue.
For supplies, see your
LOCAL HARDWARE
MERCHANT
or contact direct.
83.MTR.4
of the 20th-century revolu-
tion ; but as we cannot throw
away its manifest- benefits, so
we cannot Left, Right or
Centre —contract out of its dis-
advantages.
“The organisational and
administrative changes brought
about in our society in the
Second World War and in the
years immediately afterwards,
to a great extent under the
impact of Socialist theory and
Socialist idealism, were
numerous and far-reaching.
Now and for many years to
come the main responsibility
of any party in office, apart
from issues of foreign and
Commonwealth policy, is to
make the elaborate mechanism
of society and our tech-
niques of running it more effi-
cient and more humane. It is
a task of conservation ; and
naturally Conservatives are
rather better at it than their
opponents.
“But the very magnitude and
success of the transformation
have in large measure de-
prived the Labor party of its
moral and political impetus. A
party of the Left exists to build
a better world to correct, with
vigorous firmness, the evils
thought to be inherent in the
maldistribution of wealth, the
gross inequalities of oppor-
tunity, the exploitations of one
section of the community by
another, and the harsh barriers
between class and class. But
these are largely now evils of
the past. They were material
evils, and material ways have
been found of relieving them.
“However, this very concen-
tration on material betterment
has brought the Socialists to a
moral and spiritual dead-end.
Their founding fathers believ-
ed, with a queer but pas-
sionately sincere intensity, that
if you dealt with the obvious
maladies of ftolicy, ignorance
and want, bad housing,
horrible working - conditions
and so forth, you at once (and
as a direct consequence of
these reforms) brought a happy
and wellnigh perfect society
into being,-in which the darker
side of man would have
withered away.
“This is not what has hap-
pened. So on this ritual day of
reaffirmation and recruitment
[May Day] the old and battle-
tested Socialist is left forlornly
wondering whether he has not,
after all, fought the wrong war
on the wrong front. He con-
templates the fruits of victory
—be they the Front Bench in
the House of Commons, or
great mandarins of the trade-
unions, or the great State-run
monopolies and find •. them
sour and tasteless. And the
youthful neophyte, according
to the testimony of up-and-
coming members of the Labor
party in the universities, is in
no less of a dilemma. What
has he got to be angry about?
What has he to fight for? He
asks his elders, and he asks his
contemporaries ; and he gets a
dusty answer from both.
“The fire has gone out; May
Day is stale and meaningless
now. The Labor party is a
cosy haven for the folk of 50
and over; but to the young
it has no appeal, because
it has no challenge. This, after
all, is the problem of Mr. Gaits-
kell and his associates. We
merely state it. It would be
most presumptuous even to
hint at a solution.”
Mr. Stanley Evans (former
Labor M.P. who resigned from
Parliament over the Suez crisis ):
“The diplomatic calamities that
have befallen the West since
the unconditional withdrawal
from Suez are too monumental
to ignore King Feisal
murdered; Nuri-es-Said, 25
years a friend of this country,
butchered and dragged dead
through the streets; Iraq a
Communist satellite; pro-
Western Turkey outflanked. A
number of Russian, objectives
has been achieved —access to
the ports on the Persian Gulf,
a land-bridge to Africa, and a
stronghold on Europe’s oil.
These are the fruits of the
Eisenhower-Gaitskell 1956 axis.
Mr. Gaitskell would do well
to shut-up.’'


months —at least in the case of
Merinos—the full complement
of mature follicles has prob-
ably developed.
A very important effect of
poor nutrition in late preg-
nancy is that the resulting
lambs, because of their small-
ness, have a reduced skin-area.
There are indications that this
may reduce the annual wool-
cut by as much as 20 per cent,
of the sheep’s potential
throughout its lifetime.
In assessing the performance
of existing improved-pastures
it is not enough to consider the
level of herbage-production,
the number of stock carried
and their special seasonal
needs; the question of com-
pleteness (or incompleteness)
of utilisation of herbage grown
must also be considered. How
much of the growth, particu-
larly the spring flush, is
wasted?
It is no disgrace for a land-
holder to waste some pasture,
but it is most unfortunate that
such a high proportion, com-
monly three-quarters or more,
of the year’s growth is wasted.
The main reason for this wast-
age, is, of course, the tremen-
dous seasonal variation in
growth-rate—in southern Aus-
tralia as much as 75 per cent, of
the year’s growth can occur in
two months during spring.
Agricultural scientists
engaged in plant-breeding and
plant-introduction aim to pro-
vide plants capable of smooth-
ing out seasonal growth. Such
work takes time, and for the
present the problem remains
one of management; fodder-
conservation being the most
practicable approach. As far
as possible, stock-numbers —
both cattle and sheep—should
be increased for the period of
flush growth. Although such
adjustment of stock-numbers
is very often difficult to
achieve, some stress might be
given to improvement of lamb-
ing percentages: lambing timed
to coincide with the onset of
rapid pasture-growth provides
a means of improving utilisa-
tion, so the better the lambing
percentage the better the con-
sumption of herbage which
will otherwise be surplus.
Now, some points to con-
sider when the development
programme involves the initial
improvement of native-pasture
paddocks.
The first investment should
be in the areas which might
be expected, because of soil
and environmental conditions,
to give the quickest and best
returns. Adoption of this prin-
ciple should shorten the time
taken for pasture-development
to become self-financing.
On all properties there is a
range of growth-environments
to be exploited. Some areas
will be rather better supplied
with moisture than the
remainder of the property,
while other areas of lighter
soil might be noted for drying-
out quickly, but nevertheless
“Skipper's got gout !”
having the special virtue of
responding well to rather light
falls of rain in a dry summer.
So, even if Mt. Barker sub-
terranean-clover is the mainstay
of the district, why not con-
sider white-clover and a strain
of perennial rye-grass for some
of the favored locations?
Areas subjected to water-
logging from time to time can
become highly productive if
sown to strawberry-clover or
Yarloop subterranean-clover,
and perhaps v some Phalaris
arundinacea where cattle can
be grazed. Perennial veldt-
grass is a species that can make
a valuable contribution on
light, drier soils.
An important question that
arises in the planning of. de-
velopment is: “What propor-
tion of the property will have to
be improved before there is a
worth-while impact on the
level of production of the
whole property?”
It is unlikely that there will
ever be one answer to this
question to apply to various
districts, but there is some
interesting information avail-
able from the C-5.1.R.0.
Regional Pastoral Laboratory
at Armidale (N.S.W.). There
a composite flock of wethers,
breeding-ewes and weaners was
used to measure the animal
production of native pastures
supplemented with various
percentages of sown pastures,
The average annual stocking-
rate on the improved-pasture
was three grown sheep per
acre, compared with 1.3 on the
native pastures.
When the native-pasture area
was supplemented with 4 per
cent, of sown pasture, the
lowest proportion in the
experiment, weaners only bene-
fited. They had 13 weeks’
grazing, mainly during winter.
With a 15 p.c. supple-,
ment of sown pasture the
weaners, ewes and wethers all
benefited, to the extent of
26, 13 and 7 weeks respectively.
With 57 p.c. of sown pasture,
weaners were grazed all the
year on improved-pasture ; ewes
had 39 weeks and wethers 26
weeks of such grazing.
Somewhere between 10 p.c.
and 15 p.c. of sown pastures
was sufficient to iron-out most
of the periods of nutritional
stress. Thus, up to this level,
sown pastures could be
regarded as a supplement.
Increases beyond this level
represent scope for increased
stock-numbers.
Although these figures refer
to a particular area, they serve
to draw attention to the
importance of considering
what contribution certain pro-
portions of improved-pasture
might make to the feed- and
stock-situation on any pro-
perty. The example serves,
too, to emphasise the principle
of allotting priorities to differ-
ent classes of sheep, according
to their needs,
One last thought on the
planning- of pasture-develop-
ment: what about lucerne?
Lucerne, because of its many
virtues and long record of per-
formance, has a strong claim
to greater acreages—for hay-
production on the good flats
and for grazing (sown at about
21b. an acre) on other soils
of fairly good depth.
In view of the established
value of lucerne, from first-
class river-flats on the coast to
semi-arid areas beyond the
wheatbelt, it is surprising that
there -is not a lot more
enthusiasm for this excellent
perennial. Lucerne is a desir-
able crop in a wide range of
environments because of its
good protein content and
capacity for nitrogen fixation.
Furthermore, it can meet
various special nutritional
needs, silch as flushing of ewes,
summer fattening of stores,
protein supplement when only
poor feed is available, and
grazing for weaners. Above
all, consideration should be
given to the possibility of
lucerne giving greater stability
to production, because of its
drought - resistance and its
capacity to respond quickly,
particularly on light soils, to
even relatively light falls of
rain.


the gloom ahead and, whew!
Snow and a few rocks sticking
out of it and a couple of dwarf
trees whizzing a few feet under
Old Rennie’s nose.
Jensen taps Old Rennie on
the shoulder —perhaps he
doesn't trust .himself to speak
after that one —points to the
dash dock and holds up two
fingers.
“Yeah, mister, an’ I see the
road! We’re bloody near run-
ning along it! Right under
this-side wing!”
Jensen eases the plane over
to the right and sees the road
himself. Glances ahead and
hastily gets some throttle off
and flap down. The air is
thickening again as the first
squat shack flashes by ; then
the skis are sizzling on the
snow, slowing and sinking-in
a bit, and
“Full-stop!” says Jensen
with the biggest grin Oid
Rennie has seen on him.
They hurriedly get the
engine-covers on, lash the
plane down to ride-out another
blow, and trudge once more
along the bleak road towards
Jackson’s shack. When they
reach it the air is almost solid
with sleet. Inside, Old Rennie
lights the lamps while Jensen
has a crack at the fire.
Slumped exhausted on the
bunks, they listen to the
demon-howl of the blow out-
side.
“What’s the time?” says Old
Rennie.
“Just after eleven.”
“Strike me bloody roan!
How long were we up?”
“Thirty-eight minutes.”
“Y’r mad, mister—the last
few minutes was a, few hours.
Anyway, she was worth it.
We know bloody well where
the ram is!”
Old Rennie lies back and
in a minute is sleeping like a
babe.
Tt’s mid-afternoon when he
wakes, and there’s a far
better light in the shack. He
moves stiffly from his bunk to
the door, opens it,, shuts it and
comes back. Jensen is yawn-
ing and stretching. Jensen
watches Old Rennie blow out
the two lamps and feed the
fire.
“What’s it like?”
“Just about all over. Only
wind, now —still blowin’ like
hell. Hear it?”
“Now you mention it, I can
hear it. Hear something else,
too. What’s that banging and
rattling out there?”
“Banging and rattling?” says
Old Rennie. “Don’t tell me
the damin roofs cornin’ off!”
“I’ll wander out and have
a look.”
Jensen zipps up the big fleecy
jacket and the door slams
behind him.
Jensen isn’t away long. The
door jolts open and he bursts
in. Stands for a moment,
hands on hips, just staring at
Old Rennie.
“I’ve got news for you,
chum. C’m outside!”
Old Rennie follows Jensen
out and round through the
snow and the screaming wind
towards the shed. The shed
doors are- swinging and bang-
ing as if ridden by poltergeists.
“So that’s it,” Old Rennie
gasps. “Forgot to shut
’em ”
“Look ins i d e,” shouts
Jensen.
Old Rennie plunges forward,
holds one door steady and goes
into the shed. Jensen waits a
moment, then follows. In one
far corner stands the pony, in
the other is the ram. With his
head turning comically from
one to the other like a spec-
tator at a tennis-match stands
Old Rennie. Jensen gets the
doors shut and squats against
the wall.
/'Yld Rennie goes over and
studies the ram, then
strokes the pony’s ears. Turns
to Jensen.
“You know anything about
it, mister?”
“No more than you do.
Probably less. You under-
stand animals. One ridiculous
thought comes to me.”
“What’s that?” says Old
Rennie, squatting on his heels.
“Stockhorses are pretty
bright, I believe. Has this one
ever been known to open a
gate, or a latch?”
“Keep right on, mister,” says
Old Rennie.
“Well, suppose when the
blizzard stopped early this
morning these two just went
out looking for something to
eat. There’s nothing here.
You’d know how long since
their last meal. They’d be
pretty hungry. The ram might
have just followed the pony—
they’d been together some time.
Tell me when you’ve had
enough.”
“Keep goin’.”
“Well, they wouldn’t have
wandered far by the time the
second blizzard got going—
we didn’t get far flying. They
may have done just what we
did. Found their way back.”
Old Rennie stares at the
floor, doodling in the dust with
his finger. Then he looks back
at Jensen.
“I’ve got an idea just as silly
as yours, mister.”
“Yes?”
“Now we do know where
the bloody ram is!” says Old
Rennie.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 540
Across
I—Secretly, I eat clients who have the accreditation of
some institute or other? (11)
s—Bus5 —Bus puts one in credit. (3)
7—Arraigns some good-looking girls after him when he
loses his head. (9)
9—The main course in the Astor. (5)
10 —One way of getting up a street tune on luggage. (9)
12—Bust a strong-box. (5)
14 — Right angle that is dishonesty. (3)
15 — Pharmacists giving a post-office the cause of dental
decay. (12)
18 —Run headlong into something
else °on purpose; a broken arm
is the outcome. (3)
20—An aid to punting; in fact, any
craft or vehicle needs it from
time to time. (3)
22 See one feature country
, laughter. (12)
23 Polite mode of addressing a
man. (3)
24 Pastoral poem mentioning one
day without a couple of right
angles. (5)
25 See a fair king-emperor by an
“eatery.” (9)
28— Alice injured another girl. (5)
29 Coil a girl affected with
smoke. (9)
31— Headstrong reason for scratch-
ing. (4)
32 — Equipment for sewing with
sneakiness in an unnecessary
way. (10)
Down
1 — Where there's many a Hibernian
listener in hiding. (8)
2 Constable who can paint island
produce. (5)
3 I alienated one as taken from
cash. (3)
4 Fine discrimination is shown
here lying in state. (5)
5 A very adaptable creature having
tea with me and Gellert. (9)
6 Corruption swallowed spin. (6)
8— A year isn’t as long as usual in
a Queensland town. (3)
9 One rope in the middle of a
great Milan firm of music
publishers. (7)
11 —Gray like some layer. (5)
.13 —Sister to one Italian’s doubled
assent. (2, 2)
15 —A female will is a flower. (9)
16— I hope A 1 changes into a Shak-
sperean girl. (7)
17— What nosebags contain tea with
fortissimo banter. (5)
19—A Spanish hero is sour. (4)
21—Where to clean up a conservative
out of a volcano? (8)
23 —A bus knighted an Indian facto-
tum. (6)
25 — A place to hide the diagram of
a crescent pain. (5)
26 — Figure it’s in there. (5)
27 — A fine example of 5-across pro-
ceeds without using the
engine. (5)
30—Follow up an idol. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 539.


A Woman’s Letter
SYDNEY
It has been a week of cold and sun-
shine and ’flu and gaps in the ranks at
all gatherings. (“I’m sorry this speech
isn’t a bit better,” said one speaker at a
big general meeting, “but I was, pushed
into it at the last moment.”) The price
of petrol went up (and down) a penny,
but the price of electricity only went
down, so there may be a boom in the
manufacture of electric-broughams. A
new night-club, or rather an old one
made-over, was opened, attended by top-
line Government officials and police,
which seems odd, and the great wool-
promotion week took its first steps.
Actually, there is to be a 12-month
wool-promotion campaign by the Aus-
tralian Wool Bureau, and at the opening
at the Wentworth Hotel Mr. Wool (Jack
Davey) was wheeled into the ballroom in
a huge model of a sheep, from which he
stepped like a Greek soldier from the
wooden horse of Troy. The Minister for
Labor and National Service, Mr. W.
McMahon, quoted some slogans which
could have been improved upon. One
of them was “Become wool-conscious and
stay that way.” Why not “Be woolly-
minded. It’s so comfy!”?
But, seriously, it. really looks as if the
wool-and-sheep programme is going to be
extra-special. There are to be 2500 shep
from 12 different breeds at the Show-
ground from today (May 27), and fabrics
showing the versatility of wool, blankets,
carpets and textiles from many countries.
Also sheepdog-trials and shows of cats,
Border-collies, cattledogs and kelpies.
The “Wool for Better Living,” with its
mannequin-parade, should especially
draw the attention of women this week.
At the same time David Jones’ is hold-
ing its own wool-and-sheep show, and
there are real live sheep of all registered
stud-breeds to be seen in its art-gallery.
They have a complete working woolshed
from May 25 to June 5 in the Market
Street store, sheepdog-trials from June 1
to 5 (a note says that a special elevator
will jun direct from the ground-floor,
but does not say whether the display-
sheep will also travel by this), and an
International Parade of fashions in wool.
This last item was inaugurated with
a gala-dinner for 700 guests at David
Jones’ on Saturday night. French
designer M. Pierre Balmain made a lively
speech, saying that he “did not come
all the way from Paris to speak for
only two minutes,” and stressing the
fact that his garments, like all good
garments, were designed to last for a
long time. One of the most impressive
comments made by M. Balmain on the
qualities of wool was that as a theatrical-
designer he had found that nothing
looked so welT on the stage as wool.
“It’s essential nobility shows forth” where
even the best of satins, for example, can
look cheap. Noted at the opening were
Mr. and Mrs. Baillieu Myer (Melbourne),
Mr. and Mrs. G. B. S. Falkiner, Mr. and
Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere, and Mr. and Mrs.
T. G. Carter.
Dr. Grace Cuthbert-Browne, who has
been Director of the Maternal and Baby
Welfare for the Health Department for
past 21 years, was this week accorded the
honor of being admitted to the Fellowship
of the Royal College of Obstetricians and
Gynaecologists of the British Empire.
There are only two other women doctors
in Australasia who are Fellows of the
college. Dr. Cuthbert-Browne this week
spoke of the great national importance of
the work of the 350 nurses in baby-health
centres throughout the State and the part
they are playing in helping young
mothers, not only physically but in their
general knowledge and outlook.
Commonwealth Day, which was
formerly known as Empire Day (and
as a matter of fact still is), went on and
on this year. Officially it fell on Sunday,
May 24, which was Queen Victoria’s
birthday, but the schools celebrated on
Friday with a half-holiday and therp
were many crackers “let-off” that night.
Then Saturday night saw the big celebra-
tion with bonfires, rockefs and fireworks
everywhere, and a mist of smoke which
caused two planes to divert to Canberra.
Sunday night also crackled here and
there, and as impatient souls had started
on Thursday, the fireworks seem to have
been working for a very long time.
Though it has its drawbacks, this cele-
bration is a happier one than Guy
Fawkes’ night, which is founded on
vengefulness.
# V V
Three societies—the Royal Common-
wealth, the Victoria League and the
Overseas League—celebrated Common-
wealth Day by a reception at the Troca-
dero attended by the Governor, Sir Eric
Woodward, and Lady Woodward. Sir
Eric did not make a speech. He said
that this was an occasion for celebrations,
not speeches, but he and Lady Wood-
ward received all the guests, 180 in
number, who were presented by Mr.
A. L. Rigby. The loyal toast was pro-
posed by Mr. Ivan Black, president of
the Royal Commonwealth Society.
# # #
The N. S. Wales branch of the War
Widows’ Guild held a very successful
annual meeting during the week and was
congratulated by the Governor (who was
accompanied by Lady Woodward) on the
healthy state of its finances. Mrs. C. A.
Cobern, the hon. treasurer, said that
assets now amounted to £52,507 13s. 4d.,
an increase from £35,851 13s. 7d. in 1958.
Miss H. Clayton, representing the Council
of Social Service of N. S. Wales, said that
next year the council would undertake
research into the plight of widows with
dependant children, and in her report the
guild’s hon. secretary, Mrs. R. A.
Morrissey, said that the effect of financial
insecurity on the health of war widows
should be viewed with alarm.
Mrs. L. L. Watkins, president of the
guild, opened the meeting, but Lieut.-
General R. G. Pollard took the chair and
put the long agenda through with remark-
able efficiency. It was regretted that
Mrs. G. A. Vasey, Federal president,
was unable to attend because of illness,
and that the ’flu-germ also kept Major-
General I. N. Dougherty and Rear-
Admiral C. J. Pope away.
Z V V V
The University Settlement Ball is set-
down for Friday, June 12, and the
debutantes will be presented to the
Chancellor of the University, Sir Charles
Bickerton Blackburn, by Mrs. S. H.
Roberts, wife of the Vice-Chancellor, in
the Great Hall. President of the commit-
tee is Mrs. H. F. Benning, with Mrs.
Roscoe Hoyle, Mrs. R. Else Mitchell and
Mrs. R. V. Dearman as her executive
committee.
☆ ☆ ☆
The death in London of Grace Palotta
will stir the memories of old-time theatre-
goers who can recall the days when
Sydney and Melbourne each could boast
half-a-dozen full-time playhouses. Grace,
a tall and beautiful Viennese with a
London Gaiety training, charmed
audiences for over a decade as a star
with the J. C. Williamson Royal Comic
Opera Company.
Mr. Fred Aarons, of Exeter, who played
in this company with Grace Palotta,
writes that it was “her inimitable stage
address which allowed her to score
remarkable successes with such numbers
as ‘Oh, Listen to the Band’, from the
‘Runaway Girl’, and with ‘Tact’ from
‘Floradora.’ She was every ready with
advice and help to beginners, a great
charity-worker and a leader of feminine


fashion. She was truly of the theatre —
loved it and lived for it. Her final exit
ends an epilogue to the story of the theatre
in Australia before the advent of the
talking-film.”
MELBOURNE
Nurses from Colombo, in national-
dress and with ornaments in their long
hair, worn coiled around the head, were
among guests at the luncheon given by
the Royal Commonwealth Society at
Melbourne Town Hall as part of Com-
monwealth Day celebrations. With repre-
sentatives of India, Malaya, Singapore
and Borneo, they were welcomed by
society president Lieut.-General Sir
Horace Robertson. Mrs. Harold Holt
accompanied her husband, who was guest-
speaker, and she/wore a yellow-checked
woollen suit with a small mushroom-
brown fur-hat. Other guests included
Sir Owen and Lady Dixon (her fawn-and-
white hat made effective contrast with her
black dress), Brigadier and Mrs. R. W.
Tovell, Sir John Latham, Mrs. Claude
Couchman, Sir John Allison, Mrs. Guy
Bakewell, and Mr. and Mrs. R. Huggins.
•S $
All was gaiety and brightness
in the foyer of the Little Theatre
on Friday night, when the premiere of
“Anastasia” was given to aid the Uni-
versity Building Fund, and when theatre-
director and producer Irene Mitchell
added in great measure to her list of
successes. The Russian background of
th'd>“ rj drama inspired the jewelled-
headdresses worn by an attractive group
of programme-sellers which included
Heather and Elspeth Paton (daughters
of Vice-Chancellor Sir George Paton),
Jennie Round, Frances Primer and
Cheryl Hutchinson. Special guests at
the first night were Mrs. E. K. Smart,
chairman of the women’s committee,
and Mrs. Robin Bailey, wife of the star
of “My Fair Lady”; they were welcomed
by Mrs. P. D. Phillips and her fellow
committee - members Mrs. Hilton
Nicholas, Mrs. John Fitts and Mrs. J. S.
Wilkinson, who were responsible for
organising the evening.
In the audience were Mr. and Mrs.
Gerald Osborne (their daughter Ann
was 3. programme-seller); the Minister
for Education and Mrs. Bloomfield ;
Mr. and Mrs. Tristan Buesst; Dr. and
Mrs. Geoffrey Smith ; Mrs. Wallace
Mitchell, with whom was Mrs. J. R.
Faviell, on holiday from Sydney ; Mrs.
Graham Hall, wife of U.S. Consul-
General ; Mrs. Rupert Downes,
Meredith and Christine Wallace Smith,
Mr. and Mrs. Ray Featherstone, and
Miss P. Reynolds.
;.j # V V
Sadness tinged the gaiety of the party
given by the Consul for Thailand and
Mrs. H. I. Fader when about 60 friends
exchanged farewells with Thai Ambas-
sador Nai Konthi Suphamongkhon and
Madame Suphamongkhon, who are re-
turning to Thailand after seven years
in Australia. The hostess’s cocktail-
frock was of green brocaded-satin em-
broidered in gold, the guest-of-honor’s
was of green-and-silver tie-silk.
Guests included the Hon. A. J.
Fraser (deputising for the Premier) and
Mrs. Fraser (her black dress was worn
with a small jewelled-hat); Mr. and
Mrs. Alan Westerman ; Sir Arthur and
Lady Smithers (she in pervenche-blue
lace); Sir Charles and Lady Lowe ;
Mr. Justice Dean and Mrs. Dean ; Sir
John and Lady Teasdale ; Sir Albert
and Lady Coates ; Mr. and Mrs. W. K.
Burnside ; Mr. and Mrs. Frank
Menzies ; Mr. and Mrs. Victor Roche ;
Dr. and Mrs. Ray Shatin (her pencil-
slim black dress of fine-wool was worn
with a rose - trimmed cocktail - hat);
Air - Vice - Marshal and Mrs. I. D.
McLachlan ; Mr. and Mrs. Ray Cox ;
Captain Tin Thane Lu, of Burma ; the
Burmese Attache, Group-Captain Shi Sho,
and Mrs. Shi Sho (a glowing figure in her
national-dress of red-and-gold satin); the
Consul for Germany and Mrs. F.
Wussow ; and the Consul for Peru and
Mrs. C. N. McKenzie.
Mrs. Mary B. Hickman is a charming
American visitor whose smooth brow
gives substance to her claim that unhappy
feet cause many wrinkles, and whose chief
interest is the construction of health-
giving shoes. As president of the Brouwer
Research Institute of Milwaukee, and the
head of a leading shoe-company, Mrs.
Hickman travels thousands of miles each
year to visit the factories which make
shoes on special lasts. Her visit to Aus-
tralia is part of a Pacific tour which in-
cluded Japan, Hong Kong, and Manila,
New Zealand, Fiji and Hawaii. People
whose work keeps them on their feet for
long periods are of special interest in her
research-work, and recently she perfected
a nurse’s shoe specially suited for hospital-
theatre use. While in Melbourne Mrs.
Hickman was entertained by the Lord
Mayor ( Cr. F. W. Thomas ) and by several
women's clubs. Photo by Laurie Richard.
“Dusk, Night and the City” is the
title given to the collection of recent
paintings of Melbourne by artist Charles
Bush, on view at the rooms of the
Victorian Artists’ Society until June 6.
The exhibition, which was opened by
Mr. Kenneth Myer on Friday, has
already attracted crowds of viewers and
given some local residents good cause to
wonder whether, after all, the countries
they visited overseas were endowed with
any more beauty than could be found
here at home by the perceptive eyes of
the artist.
V V
Friendly American visitors Mr. and
Mrs. Hubert Cooper were welcomed to
Melbourne by members of the English-
Speaking Union last week, and found
their anticipations more than realised.
Koalas in the flesh were so much more
adorable, Mrs. Cooper declared, than
their pictures suggested, and even the
rainy days here were soft and mild. (Her
listeners did their best to appear as
though such a run of calm weather was
ordinary winter-routine instead of being
almost a phenomenon.)
This is Mrs. Cooper’s first visit to
Australia, but her Sydney-born husband
is making a return after an absence of
44 years. They are on a seven-month
trip around Australia and New Zealand,
with Mr. Cooper representing*the E.-S.U.
of the United States. Both have been
members of the society for 35 years and
belong to the Philadelphia branch in their
home State of Pennsylvania.
☆ ☆ ☆
Tweeds and furs dominated the
fashion-picture when Melbourne Racing
Club held its second May meeting at
Caulfield on Saturday, and as well as
giving much-needed warmth by way of
coats and stoles, fur-trimming was used
in rather original ways. It was seen as
a cravat under a tweed coat; on buttons
of suits ; on crowns of hats. One of the
smartest wearers of the latter style was
Mrs. George Laurens, whose emerald-
green bandeau had a mink-crown to
match the full-length fur coat she wore
over her dress of taupe-wool. With her
was her daughter Diane, whose coat of
ming-blue was worn with a matching
hat of the same material. They were
accompanied by Miss Barbara Robinson,
Miss Carol Visbord and Mrs. John
March, here on a visit from Hong Kong.
* * *
A most attractive invitation to “May-
time in Mayfair” has arrived from the
Young Contingent of the Victoria League.
Committee for the dinner-dance to be
held on May 29 at Ciro’s is headed by
Pam Middleton, assisted by vice-president
Mrs. E. A. Cook, and Joan Duckett as
secretary. Mrs. Guy Bakewell, league
senior vice-president, Mrs. R. B. Hamil-
ton and Mrs. F. May are also on the
committee. Ticket-secretaries are Jane
Teasdale (WY 1998), Gillian Goulding
(WB 2022), Elizabeth Duckett (BJ 3647),
and Primrose Buchanan (20-4420). Much
planning is going on for decorations,
which are to include charcoal sketches
and maypoles.


destroyed by fire. Others were
highly-polished, razor-sharp,
and mounted on straight lim-
bom handles 4ft. to sft. in
length. These were the fighting-
tools with which the Mokol-
kols had hacked out their
legend. We searched in vain
for whetstones.
The amount of freshly
harvested taro in the village,
while surprisingly large, was
dwarfed by the quantities of
nutritious canarium-almonds
stored away in string-bags: Bill
calculated a total of six
hundredweight of nuts. In
addition, there were cooking-
bananas, sugarcane, wild betel-
nut and pit-pit tops; a few
joints of smoke-blackened pork
hung from the roofs. Our
hosts lived well.
“They wanted to stage a
feast for us,” said Bosi, “but
we arrived too soon.”
\TL7e had nobody able to
understand the captives’
language, so could only guess
at the import of some brief,
spirited harangues delivered by
the older man. It appeared
that he wished us to release
him.
His superbly muscled friend,
similarly full-bearded, and clad
in a palm-leaf breech-clout,
remained morosely silent, glar-
ing steadily at us with murder-
ous bloodshot eyes. Whenever
he thought he was unobserved
he sawed industriously with a
flake of obsidian at the hand-
cuff linking him to his com-
panion. They did not smoke,
but avidly accepted some of
their own kabibi —the wild
betelnut.
The woman, aged about 25,
short, plump and round-
headed, with an intelligent face,
sported bunches of leaves fore
and aft. She carried a baby
girl, perhaps six months old,
in a sling, and two of the
three small boys apparently
belonged to her.
On the slim chance that
some of the people might still
be lurking by, I decided to
remain in the village for as
long as the rations permitted.
During the next day, after con-
firming that there was no
potable water in the immediate
vicinity, I kept all hands, except
an escorted water-party, within
the village. The police and
carriers built a fine cookhouse
and several latrines, including
special arrangements for the
lady. We learnt the captives’
names by calling our own
whilst tapping ourselves on the
chests in turn, then tapping
them to the accompaniment of
interrogative grunts.
The woman, named Manu,
was easily the brightest pupil;
during the day she became
increasingly confident and even
voluble. By indicating us, then
making a circular motion with
her hand, whilst pointing sky-
wards and simultaneously
“Miss Jones is a parachutist."
emitting a growling noise, she
demonstrated that she con-
nected our arrival with the
aerial reconnaissance.
I abandoned a half-formed
plan to release her and the
children. She was going to be
valuable.
'T'he hamlet (or the mound
on which it was built) was
called Atar, which, after some
mystifying pantomime by the
lady with a strip of salted
limbom-pith, we ultimately
deduced meant “salt-water”:
in clear weather a shimmering
patch of distant sea was visible
through a gap in the western
ridges.
The elder man, . Mali!,
became spasmodically co-
operative, and was persuaded
to join with Manu in directing
some fruitless yodelling at his
absent friends. Of course, we
had no check on what they
said. Their sombre companion,
favored crop, interspersed with
a few clumps of sugarcane,
bananas, and aipika spinach.
Work had evidently been in
progress when the raid
occurred —a point from which
old Moite derived peculiar
satisfaction.
“For years and years these
Mokolkols have raided people
working in their gardens,” he
said, contemptuously squirting
a crimson jet of betel-juice
over a banana-trunk. “Now
they know how it feels.”
/’"'areful circling of the rain-
washed ground indicated
that, in traditional style, the
Mokolkols had fled to distant
parts, and that it was useless
to wait longer.
The following morning, after
leaving some trade goods pro-
minently displayed, we com-
menced the return journey to
Baia. The lady was placed in
old Moite’s care ; she walked
in front of him, with a length
the formidable Lamu, remained
grimly uncommunicative. I
suspected that he was suffering
from fever, and had been
asleep when we raided the
place. He could not be per-
suaded to swallow any tablets,
and ' when, rather foolishly, I
endeavored to take his tem-
perature, he promptly chewed-
up our sole remaining thermo-
meter.
Next morning we patrolled
the area, without observing any
signs of lurking humans. The
gardens, 1000yds. from the vil-
lage, were about five acres in
extent, unfenced, and had been
carefully tended. Taro, of
extremely good quality, was the
of light cord fastened around
her waist and tied to his wrist.
Risks had to be accepted dur-
ing the intervals, including the
daily changes of floral raiment,
when ladies must be alone, but
these were minimised by tem-
porarily relieving her of the
baby. The small boys, aged
between four and eight,
climbed the ridges with -a
nonchalant ease that put us to
shame.
We made good time, work-
ing on a compass-bearing, and
finally pitched camp, in heavy
rain, on one of the Mavulu
tributaries. There was a
momentary panic when one of
the kaulons, seeking firewood,
wandered some little distance
off in the gloom, and was mis-
taken by the nervous Nakanais
for a Mokolkol. During the
evening meal one of the small
boys tearfully bemoaned the
lack of pork (the word for pig
— boro, boroi, boroina, etc. —
is curiously similar in every
New Guinea language). His
irritated mother swiped at him
with a piece of burning fire-
wood, which he dodged with
practised dexterity. Vocational
training of the Mokolkol young
apparently started at an early
age.
When, late in the second day,
we reached Baia I sent for the
two miserable little Kasalea
men. As expected, they swore
they recognised the prisoners:
under cross-examination their
identification became increas-
ingly suspect: only one of
them had been near the scene
of the murders, and he had
got away to a flying-start.
As they fidgeted, searching
for more convincing lies, their
attention became focused on
the new iron spear with the
telephone-cable binding, which
had been tossed, with careful
negligence, into a corner of
the rest-house veranda. Then
the older man, Anuti, sulkily
spoke up:
“I would like that spear.”
“Ask the luluai here to sell
it. He made it.”
“No, he didn’t. My wife's
brother, Kipu, made that spear
two months ago, and gave it
to Pagoni, the second son of
my kinsman Timoni.”
He gave a lengthy discourse
on the weapon’s history.
“All right. Tell Pagoni he
can come to Rabaul and get it.”
“The Mokolkols killed
Pagoni and his daughter.”
I gave him the spear. It had
established that our Atar
friends were the South Coast
raiders.
{To be concluded)


Food for the People of Australia
by R. C. HUTCHINSON
Do Australians eat too much sugar? Is butter more nutritious than margarine?
Should our bread be enriched? Are Australian children getting sufficient vitamins?
Are the regulations in the Pure Food Acts adequate for the public’s protection? These
are some of the topics covered in this informative, weil-illustrated book by an
Australian authority. 32/6 ( po st' 9d.)
AVAILABLE FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS AND . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
A REGULAR
SUPPLY OL BOOKS
MONTHLY BOOK
SERVICES
by
THE HMKB* TIMES
BOOKSHOP
On any of the four services listed below you receive post free
a new book every month selected by expert booksellers.
ALL YOU HAVE TO DO
You deposit the amount shown, which will normally cover the
twelve books (an adjustment statement is sent each year).
Deposit (Sterling)
NON-FICTION SERVICE £lO 10 0 DETECTIVE NOVEL SERVICE £7 7 0
GENERAL NOVEL SERVICE £8 8 0 ROMANTIC NOVEL SERVICE £7 7 0
All books are new publications, first editions and original issues,
not special substandard editions.
TO THE TIMES BOOKSHOP, DEPT. WR.. 42 WIGMORE ST.. LONDON, W.l.
Please enrol me in The for which
I enclose £ to cover the first twelve months.
NAME .... ....... ... . ... . ... . ... ...... ........... ..... ..s. ... ... . 2
ADDRESS
all innocence, I played this song at
Woodenbong, the old man and his
wife were very upset.
Notable among these songs are a
two -up song, composed in the
language! but with colloquial Austra-
lian words like “boxer,” “ring-leader,”
“motor-car,” etc., cropping-up in it.
It also has a refrain of “Two-hup,
two-hup, two-hup.” Another song
concerns an old aboriginal “king” who
was refused a drink of rum by the
publican’s wife. The song says that
this old “king” could not understand
this as a “king” should not be refused.
So this old man went back to his
blady-grass camp and made up a song
about the publican’s wife.
Here is a song called “Jacky-Jacky”
which my full-blood friend, Percy
Mumbulla, taught me to sing. It has
a haunting, plaintive air.
At Yamba, the mouth of the
Clarence River, I picked-up a myth
which concerned an old woman named
Dirrangun. This old woman is
obviously a fertility-goddess and was
responsible for the creation of the
Clarence River. I traced and recorded
this myth right up to its source, at
Woodenbong.
On my way I stopped at the little
reserve of Baryugil. There, among
other things, I was told the story of
a mountain nearby. This mountain
is the site of the fire-totem or spirit.
The story relates how various
aborigines who trespassed on this
mountain in the mistaken belief that
the mountain contained gold were
either killed or made blind by the
“Darmunjura,” the fire-spirit.
When I arrived at Woodenbong, an
aborigine sang me a song which was
composed by one of these trespassers
after the mountain had sent him blind.
The song is composed in the language.
Here is the translation I was given:—
What shall I do! What shall I
do! The mountain’s Darmunjura
has wrestled with me. Back there
in the mountain I thought the gold
was in the water. Soon as I was
interfering with those weeds, the
weeds started to crack. The moun-
tain, back there the mountain
started to growl. The mountain
started to rumble. Hold me now!
The mountain has wrestled with me.
I don’t know what to do. Hold me
now! I am blind. I am frightened.
ROLAND ROBINSON.
Jacky-Jacky was a smart young feller,
Full of fun and en-ai-gee.
He was thin kin’ of gettin’ married,
But his girl ran away, you see.
Cricketa bubbla, wildi miah,
Billee niah, jingeree wall.
Huntin’ food was Jacky’s business
Till the white man came along,
Ran the fences across his country.
Now the huntin’ days are gone.
Cricketa bubbla, etc.
Now the white man, he pay all taxes,
Keep Jacky-Jacky in clothes an’
food.
Jacky don’t care what becomes of
his country.
White man tucker, him berry good.
Cricketa bubbla, etc.
Jacky-Jacky used to chase the emu
With his spears an’ waddy too.
He’s the only man could tell you
What the emu told the kangaroo.
Cricketa bubbla, wildi miah,
Billee niah, jingeree wall.


CITY MUTUAL
LIFE
Australia-wide Progress Reported
Salient features of the 80th Annual Report & Revenue Account for the year ended 31st
December, 1958, and Balance Sheet at that date of The City Mutual Life Assurance Society
Limited, to which particular reference was made by the Chairman of Directors, Mr. Henry
Morrissey, during his address at the Annual General Meeting held in Sydney, 13th May, 1959
• NEW BUSINESS 9,119 Policies were issued with Sums Assured of £20,658,589.
• POLICIES IN FORCE now total 147,014 with Sums Assured of £146,389,808 to which
are attached Reversionary Bonuses of £17,518,786.
' jf- oTj i -p/i
• ASSETS have been increased to £42,904,779.
• INTEREST RATE earned was £5.2.4 per centum after taxes. c- r
• SURPLUS reached the record .figure of £1,808,722.
• BONUSES ARE SUBSTANTIALLY INCREASED AGAIN for the 7th time in 8 years,
after making provision for a further allocation to General Reserve..
• ENTRY INTO THE FIRE AND GENERAL INSURANCE FIELD the Society has
purchased the whole of the issued capital of Perpetual General Insurance & Guarantee
Company Limited. ’
• THE FEDERATION OF CO-OPERATIVE HOUSING SOCIETIES OF VICTORIA
has chosen The City Mutual Life to underwrite its Housing Societies’ Mortgage
Protection Scheme, which provides for repayment of mortgage debt on death of the
breadwinner.
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
Incorporated in N.S.W. 18/8
HEAD OFFICES:
N.S.W.: City Mutual Building, 60-66 Hunter St., Sydney.
Telephone: 8W2021.
Q’LAND: City Mutual Building, 307 Queen St., Brisbane.
Telephone: 31-2371.
W.A.: City Mutual Building, 62 St. George’s Terrace,
Perth. Telephone: 23-1451.
VIC.: City Mutual Building, -459 Collins St., Melbourne.
Telephone: M 82561.
S.A.: City Mutual Building, 118 King William St.,
Adelaide. Telephone: W 7031.
TAS.: City Mutual Building, 22 Elizabeth St., Hobart.
Telephone: 2-2504.
